on .cor t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXV, Number XVI Campus Crawlers: s.afety Walkab·out by Stephanie Slobotkin Assisttmt News Editor Are you aware that Union;s light guides your every step? Your midnight strolls to and from the college center or a hike back from a party are all lit by carefully placed lights. In order to ensure your safety on campus at all times, the Safe Space Committee along with Campus Safety have made endless efforts and taken various precautions to pick and choose where Union's campus needs more light. On several occasions throughout the year, Union holds what is known as the \Campus Safety WalkAbout.\ On February 28, every inch of Union's campus grounds were · traversed by a combined group of students, fac.ulty:. and staff who attempted to target poten- tial problem areas and review the adequacy of current light- in g. The purpose of the walkabout is to observe the campus grounds in relation to how much fight is present .and how much more light is needed. They also look at the mechanical functions to make sure that the lights are work~ ing effectively. Eric Noll, the Assistant Di- rector of Personnel, felt that the walkabout this year was a success. He would have liked to see more student involve- ment, considerfng tltefact that numerous messages were left on voice mail, and pamphlets and flyers were also distrib- uted throughout tile college center. Noll mentioned that sororities and fraternities were ~irectly invited, alo.ng with Schenectady, New York March 7, 1996 - Crimes of the Heart See \Crimes of the Heart\_l~is Tllursday and Friday at tl1e Yulman Theatre (Saturday's SIIOW is sold out). Plwto by Rick Lederer/TIIe Concordiensis Jewish & Lesbian Activist, Writer and Teacher Visits Union by Bhavani Meduri Contributing Writer Melanie Kaye-Kantrowitz, presented by The Peer Facili- tators, gave an eloquent and thought-provoking talk, fol- lowed by a question and an- swer session, in the College Ct.!ntcr Auditorium last Thurs- day night. Her speech foct~scd on Jew- ish-Black relations and her per- sonal involvement in fighting the negative stereotypes asso- ciated with the relationship. The talk was particularly unique in that Kaye- Kantrowitz approached the is- sue from both the viewpoint of a Jew and as a woman. She stated that negative ste- reotyping of Jewish-Black re- lations stems hack to the days of slavery, when it was be- lieved that the Jewish people introduced human bondage to America. Kaye-Kantrowit:.?; dismisses such reports as fab- rications by groups who have benefited from undermining the successes between Jews and blacks over the years. She asserted heF belief that Jewish people played no greater role in slavery than did any other group during that time pe- riod and that many Jews were divided about their opinions on slavery de- pending on their geo- graphical location. Kaye-Kantrowitz cited instances of great coop- eration and mutual sup- port between Blacks and Jews which she believes were not given the credit that they deserved. She recalled the union organizations staged by the Communist party in the 1930's which coa- lesced Jews, blacks, and whites to fight for their rights. She credited the lack of class structures within communism for forging such cooperation between different races. Although she did not denounce capitalism, she believes that the competi- tive atmosphere it breeds causes frustration among men which further per- petuates discrimination. In support, she cited Hitler's rise to power dur· ing a time of recession. By using Jews as a scapegoat Hi Iter pleased his support· ers because they did not Melanie Kay-Kantrowitz spoke at Union last Tllursday Pltoto by Aileen Quigleynlle Concordiensis - -. ,, Last Issue o.f the term. ,_ \< t

. 1. Thursday, March 7, 1996 \\.n. .......... : Splendor in Stone of the Heart Theater 8:00a 8:00p 8:30a NOTT MEMORIAL lO:OOp YULMAN THEATER 8:00p 12:00a CC CHET'S Friday, March 8, 1996 ...., .•. ~ .. College Jazz Ensemble Performance of the Heart Theater · 8:00p lO:OOp ARTS 215 8:00p lO:OOp YULMAN THEATER &:OOp 12:00a CCCHET'S Saturday, March 9, 1996 es of the Heart Theater Production 8:00p 10:00p YULMAN THEATER Sunday, March 10, 1996 \\\''\u t: Splendor in Stone 8:00a an Swieten String Quartet (early 3:00p instruments) 8:30a 5:00p NOTI MEMORIAL MEMORIAL CHAPEL Monday, March 11, 1996 ibit: Splendor in Stone 8:00a 8:30a NOTT MEMORIAL Tuesday, March 12, 1996 ibit: Splendor in Stone Movies: Sixteen Candles and The Brea~fasl Club 8:00a 7:00p 8:30a NOTT MEMORIAL 11 :OOp CC CHET\S Wednesday, March 13, 1996 Splendor in Stone sOpen 8:00a 8:00p 8:30a NOTT MEMORIAL 12:00a CC CHET' S Thursday, March 14; 1996 \bit: Splendor in Stone 's Open 8:00a 8:00p 8:30a NOIT MEMORIAL 12:00a CC CHET'S To publicize an event, e-mail the Concordiensis at concordy@gar.union.edu, or call our main office at extension #6155. We would be happy to include any and all campus events in this calendar. LOCATION TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27%1996: 3:06 AM · . Fox/Davidson Lot 7:11AM 1:50PM South & Huntley Lanes Bailey Field WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28,1996: ·3:30AM Yulman Area 12:00 PM Various THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 1996: 4:06 AM · College Center 1:34PM Huntley Lane PM Memorial Chapel area 11:12 PM College Center FRIDAY 2 MARCH 1, 1996: 4:27 AM West College 9:10PM Alumni Gym SATURDAY, MARCH2, 1996: 1:01 AM Raymond South 2:24AM Raymond South 3:03AM Potter House 11:00 AM Raymond House 10:23 PM Rathskellar SUNQAY, MARCHJ, 1996: 1:14AM · West College 1:44AM Chi Psi 3:05AM Chi Psi 3:05AM Chi Psi 1:04PM Chi Psi Lot 1:23PM College Center MONDAY, MARCH 4i 1996: 11 :22 PM · · Fraternity INCIDENT THEFT: Handicappc;1d parking designation sign stolen. THEFt: Stop sign stolen . HARASSMENT:- W;;~ter balloons thrown at team members wlto were .practicing on the field. THEFT: Hazard warning light cover stolen from campus operations vehicle. THEFT: Student's vending card stolen, used for unauthorized purchases at several locations around campus. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Paint splattered on floors and doors. (Careless handling of paint materials used to paint the Idol by suspects.) SUSPICIOUS pERSON: Unknown male asked a student for money. No threat conveyed. Student refused and went on. Incident occurred late afternoon 2/'26. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Anonymous report of persons using marijuana. behind the Chapel building. Area checked ... report was not confirmed. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Disagreement 'between a staff member and student regarding previous incident at the Rathskellar. Student was refused service due to previous conduct. VANDALISM: Courtesy telephone damaged in soutlt side hall. VANDALISM: Window broken. FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: False Fire alann caused by intentional activation of pull box on 2nd floor. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. HARASSMENT: Campus Safety Officers were requested to check on a loud noise complaint. As the officers entered the building they were doused with beer thrown :from windows above. Suspects fled. Conduct Charges filed. HARASSMENT: Students locked out of their room by guests who refused them entry back into the room. SUBSTANCE All USE: Possession of drug paraphernalia. Conduct Charges filed. HARASSMENT: Staff member verbally harassed by student. FIRE/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Minor fire in student's room caused by careless pranksters. No injury or damage. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. Unauthori.zed halogen bulb caused item placed over the lamp to catch fire. HARASSMENT: Mi11or altercation between two students. FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: False fire alann caused by intentional activation of pull box. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. HARASSMENT: Campus. Safety Officer responding to fire a1ann was stmck in face with plastic clip of beer thrown at him. C()nductCharges filed. VANDALISM: Student's vehicle damaged while parked. Rear view tnirror was pulled off of his car. THEFT: Floral delivery was stole!l from the information booth area. SUBSTANCE AllUSE: Keg on tap.

Campus News Jewish & Lesbian Activist, Writer and Teacher Visits Union continued know who else to blame for their eco ... n(}mic problems. She mentioned that the NAACP was the firstorganiL::ation in America to rec- ognize Hitler's destructive tendencies andto call for a suppression ofh~~-power. She also recaHed that during the Civil Rights Movement,. close to one-half of the Freetlom Riders were Jewish. Her talk went on to discuss Jewish- Black relations in terms of present day attitudes. She believes that the negative .stereotype associated with Jewish-Black rel~tions still'persists, la:t:gely due to the slanted reporting of the media. Asevidence; she citedthe 1991 Crown Heights murders that were given signifi- cant media coverage throughout the United States. It angered her to see the murder of a black teenager by a group Gf ultra-orthodox Jews. This was fol- lowed by a retaliatory murder of a Jew .. ish teenager by a group of blacks. She believes that this event was singled out by the media as the epitome of Jewish- Black relations. The media did not present an accurate picture, according to Kay~Kantrowitz, because they never mentioned that this was an isolated ind- dent in a relatively peacefu~, multiracial community. She also believes that ifthe media had taken the time to interview the women cf the community they would have served as an example to the nation as to now peop] e of different races could forge a cooperative relationship. According to Kaye~Kantrowitz, as a whole, women are more likely to over- come racial boundaries than men, This is because men often feel that they have to be 'manly' and only take care oftheit own instead of reaching out toward oth- ers. She went on to say that there should be a shift in leadership in both black and Jewish organizations by placing more gays and women in higher ranked posi- / tions. She feels. that these two catego- ries of people are more progressive in crossing racial boundaries because they tend to have more is~ues in common with their counterparts of another race. As a lesbian, Kaye-Kantrowitz is a case in point. She is executive head of a progressive organization called Jews for Racial .and Economic Justice which . sponsors speakers, holds forums, and col'laborates on projects with other or- ganizations to fight for the rights of both minorities and the underprivileged. She credits her post-World War II Jewish upbringing and her politically ac- tive parents with instilling the sense of activism within her. Although she was not aware ofthe role that Judaism played in her life as a child, I(aye~Kantrowitz now believes that it had a great impact on her. She recalled that ,it was not safe to be open about one's Jewish neritage dur- ing the McCarthy era. The execution of the Rosenbergs, and Jewish spies, cre- ated a large sense of fear in her Jewish community and her father changed their family name form Kantrowitz to the more ambiguous, Kaye. It was not until Kaye-Kantrowitz became an adult that she reaffirmed her original surname. When the Civil Rights Movement took momentum, Kaye-Kantrowitz became an active participant in the Harlem Edu- cation Project. However, in contrast to her present belief that the Jewish and black communities should work together to fight discrimination, she eventually left the movement. She migrated to California where she received her first brush with overt preju- dice. Her experiences with anti- Semitism taught her to realize that Jews were as often a target for discrimination as were blacks. Her cumulative experi- ences led her to pursue a lifetime of work toward liberal causes, such as fighting for the rights of both women and blacks. She believes that the Jewish-black re· lationship is unique. It represents a sig· nificant force in progressive history and serves as an example of cross race class in America. She hopes that more pro- gressive Jews and blacks can override the negative images that the media has associated with this relationship and in· stead bring its positive aspects to light. Kaye-Kantrowitz's talk was followed by a question and answer session in which students brought up many inter- esting points. One student asked what - could be done to create a harmonious coalition between diverse groups of col- lege students, who tend to have more radical attitudes than the general popu~ lation. Her answer was that in order to form a coalition between anyone, a common link must first be found. She advised stu- dents to ignore those who are extremely radical because they do not represent the voice of a general community. Instead, she believes that students must actively search for others of diverse backgrounds who share similar beliefs and together form a multiracial cooperation which u1nrlrc tn P.?~ . <anrl ' r f'PllnuT nPP on campus. Campus Crawlers: Safety Walk About continued He believes that if people use comrnon sense when it comes to their own we11 being, safety would not be such a worry or a problem on campus. Walking with a friend, taking advantage of the Escort Service, and be- ing aware at all times can help prevent hazardous circumstances from aris- ing. Steve Potenza added: \You could put up football stadium lights, but lighting is only a preventive practice.\ Overall, the general consensus was that the walkabout was beneficial. It reviewed the present I ighting condi- tions, thus confirming that Union's campus is headed in the right direction in terms of safety. As Eric Noll's said: \Students are always helpful sources to a success- ful project... hopefully with further involvement, the recommendations that were made will be fulfilled in order that Union remain a safe place to live.\ For many of us, Union is a home. Most of our essential needs are met here. Many people find comfort and security. Many feel that it is safe place to walk and wander freely at our leisure. However, the reality is that Schenectady does have a high crime rate. When it is dark, danger is al- most inevitable. With the idea in mind of alleviating any such perils, the people who are involve in the walkabout make continuous efforts to bring us home safety. Nonetheless, precautions should be taken regardless of the number of lights that guide our path. MOTOPHOTO 104111118 182-6718 ........ _- -·

\, I Campus News Kyoto Zen Master. Visits Union by Aileen Quigley Staff Writer Union College is proud to welcome the Zen Master Rev. Keido Fukushima of Kyoto, Japan, a renowned member of the Buddhist community. He has spo- ken at many distinguished colleges and universities including Columbia, Bucknell, and Colgate. On March 7th, 8th, and 9th, he will introduce a form of spirituality. He is the Head Abbot of the Tofukuji Temple in Kyoto, which is the \main temple of the Tofukuji school of the Rinzai· sect in Zen Buddhism,\ accord- ing to Assistant Professor Khan of Japa- nese and East Asian Studies. The role of Head Abbot, similar to that of arch- bishop on Roman Catholicism or a high- ranking rabbi in Judaism, entails the overseeing of all the temples in Kyoto. Rev. Fukushima's temple is well known as \one of the Five Great Temples of Kyoto, famous as well, for the mag- nificent autumnal beauty of its Japanese maples.\ His temple falls under the Rinzai sect, one of the two major sects of Buddhism. The other major sect is known as Soto. Rev. Fukushima's master lineage is as impressive as his temple. His master was the student of T.D .. Suzuki, one of the most prominent Zen masters of this sect around the end of World War I. The training Rev. Fukushima received has prepared him to pass on the traditions of his beliefs, visible in his calligraphy. The calligraphy lines are simple and fol- low a single, circular stroke. The Zen principle of \mu\ is cap- tured in that the belief of the emptiness ofone's heart (achieved by the absence of all self-pride and egotism) will result in a simple, pure and enlightened state. If this sounds like something you would I ike to experience, come to the Coilege Center on Friday, March 8th, at 3:30 p.m. for a demonstration of this art form complex in its simple beauty. This will be followed by a lecture in the auditorium on how to achieve this \empty mind\ at 8:00p.m. A Zen medi- tation session will conclude Rev. Fukushima's demonstration series and will take place in Old Chapel on Satur- day, March 9th at 11 :00 a.m. All are encouraged to attend. CDC on the Cutting Edge by Michelle Ellis News Editor People all across the nation are using the reso:uces of the Union College Career Development Center (CDC). Thanks to the efforts of Tom Denham and the CDC staff, Union College is on the cutting edge of Internet job search- mg. Over winter break, Denham and the CDC staff compiled a four page hand- out on Internet job searching. The hand- out lists over 100 job sites on the World Wide Web. The CDC informed ana- tional Internet news discussion group about the handout it had created. Through the discussion group, the hand- out was made available to anyone will- ing to send in a self-addressed stamped envelope and one dollar to cover print- ing expenses. In the past few months, at least fifty people have requested the Internet job search handout. The CDC is bombarded weekly with requests for the handouts from colleges and universities across the country. Career professionals at colleges and universities are always on the look- out for new job placement opportunities. Joyce Lain Kennedy, a columnist for the Los Angeles Times, referred to Union College and the innovative CDC hand- out in her column. Kennedy wrote, \Union College, the nation's oldest lib- eral arts college with engineering, has compiled a very helpful four page list ofWeb sites for job hunting.\ Kennedy explained the handout in detail and she included the information necessary for her readers to obtain copies ofthe hand- out. It is expected that Kennedy's column will be printed this month. Dedham commented that he is unsure how many papers will print the column. \Since the column is syndicated, it may be run in two newspapers of two hundred papers nationally,\ stated Dedham. He also commented that newspapers may be re- luctant to run articles like Kennedy's, \Because of the increased competition that On-Line services are creating for the print media.\ When asked how he felt about shar- ing the CDC handout Dedham replied, \In our profession we are very commit- ted to sharing information. I have been to a number of conferences with career professionals who agree that the profes- sion only gets better by sharing re- sources. It does not benefit us if another office is hurting.\ The CDC encourages students to take advantage of the various CDC resources and in particular the handout for job searching on the World Wide Web. \'WANTED\' Annual Fund Affiliates $5.00 per hour, CASH bonus system, EVENING hours, great resume builder. Interviewing March 18 through 22nd. Job is April15 - May 9th. Mondays ·Thursdays. Interested? For interview call Ext.6175 426 STATE STREET~ DOWNTOWN SCHENECTADY (FOUR DOORS WEST OF PROCTORS) 372-6648 Try our Atlantic Bar-B-Q Happy Hour Wed-Fri 4-.7 pm $2.000ffWith This Ad Outdoor Gear 8 Clothing Fleece Clothing Backpacks Biking Boots Tents Rain wear ,Outerwear Sleeping Bags Camping Supplies Climbing Equipment IT11 CDC Updates On -Campus Recruitior Rmipden:, ••• • Decuion TechnokiKits Resume Deadline: Friday. March 8 • Stem~ Resume/Cover letter deadline for Retail Executive Trainee Position: March 15 • Mils• MulfUII Life lnsJUVIIu Co. Resume Deadline: March 1S • IBM is seeking CS majors for Associate Programmer. Resume deadline April 8 for Spring interviews. lntcnicws; • The Principal Filumdal Group, Monday, March 11 • Microcom, Tuesday, March 12 • ADP Wednesday, March 13. Infonnation Session. Tuesday, March 12,7 pm ·Intambip Qpportuotics • AMES LtlbolriiO'J is offering aSQmmet: Student Tl!l,inee Program • for juniors and seniors majoring in chemistry, physic$, math ematics, computer science, or engineering. 11)e Summer Student Training Program is an ·undergraduate ieseareh participation pro- gram sponsored by the Office ofCooperative Edpeation, U.S. Department of Energy. Send application direcdy. Career Assistant posldon avallablefOI' '961'97 at the CDC. Stu- dents who win be away spring term and are interested should submit a cover lener and resume by March 13. Interested in WCJiting at the CDC over Spring break? Send a letter tn the CDC. ASAP. to the of • ..._ College Rings Newest Styles! Any College Any Year! 3 Week Delivery. Now Available Direct by Accessing out Web site on the internet. Fully Guarenteed, Great Prices. Come Visit our site and order your College Cl~ss Ring. http://www.collegerings.net Or phone us at (718) 443-4260

The Immigr.ation Question for A~erica by Michelle Neier World News Staff Itt politics there are often many different views on vari- ous issues. For instance, there has been a tremendous amount of debate on the topic ofimmi- gration. Lately there has been a great deal ofanti•.immigration sentitnent in this country. there are also, however, many people who support immigrants and want to do everything in their power to help them get into and remain in this coun- try. Recently, there has been a push in The current legal system makes it extremely difficult to find an affordable {or free) law- yer to handle immigration cases. The case of Darnilda Juana Pardave Trujillo, also mentioned in The New York Time.;;, illustrates the funda- mental difference. After being labeled as a suspected ten-orist in Peru, she escaped here, where she represents no danger. Upon arrival in this country, though, Trujillo first needed to take care of the breast cancer she had been diagnosed with before she could legally seek asylum .. Con- gress to p a s s b i 11 s which s e t stricter regula- tions on Illegal immigration control is important, but a nation of immigrants must do everything to insure that legal, hardworking immigrants get the chance that we had. It took a month before s h e could even bet,tinto take le- gal ac- i mm i- gration. One major aspect of this is setting a time limit of one month for newcomers to apply for asylum. Today, there is no deadline for people who want to apply for asylum in this country. As of right now, people may enter this country and rut off apply- ing for as long as a year. The new bill would attempt to weed out those who are taking advan- tage of our legal system and ap- plying for asylum unfairly. For instance, The New York Times reported a story about Mit Amal Kansi, a man who came to this country with a visa to stay for a month. A year later he applied for asylum. During the interim there was a shoot- ing of two people at the Cen- tral Intelligence Agency's head- quarters outside Langley, Vir- ginia. Mr. Kansi was suspected of being the perpetrator of this crime. Somemightask why we should allow people like this into our country, given that the U.S. has more crime than it wants?The concurrent \How?\ question of !~ow did he escape our initiai detection comes up as well. Strict rules for secu- rity must be in place, but they must not ~mduly affect those innocent immigrants who come here with legitimate and peace- ful pmposes for a better life. tion to gain asylum. Under the new plan, she would be denied asylum. In order to protect those like Trujillo and stop. those like Kansi, the Clinton administra- tion has put a new policy in ef- fect. Immigration officials have stopped automatically handing out working papers which de- terred many people from apply- ing. There were those wl10 were only applying for asylum so that they could get quick work cards. Also, the number of asylum officers was nearly doubled and more officers were opened to handle the backlog of cases which had built up. According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service (I.N.S.) Commissioner, Doris Meissner, the number of people seekipg &sylum dropped dra- matically and the number of cases completed more than doubled after these new policies were put into place. The administration's approach seems to adjust to the demand, rather than cut off t~e supply ofimmigrants, while seeking to maintain security. Although no system is perfect and will not weed out every criminal, it will hopefully continue to protect those who are legitimately in danger in their home countries. rworld News Questions oftbe Week: l. Should the Israelis except Jla~as' cease tire proposal in ~xchange for prisoner releases ~nd an end of Israeli target ~election? 2. Should NATO expand beyond its borders? mlp.~ <!Inncnrbi.ensis March 7, 1996 Page 5 Economic Security: The Secret Service Role by Matt Sandler World News Editor When one thinks of the Se- cret Service, they think of men and women dressed in suits and trench coats, with wire coils coming out of their ,ears, and eyes scanning for any and ev- ery conceivable threat to the President. Whether you agree with the person who they are protecting, or whether one thinks that person should be in the White House, the fact re- mains that a phalanx of Secret Service guards are protecting his life. This one view does not take into account all the ad- vance work the Service must do, the threat management teams, and all the files and alerts they respond to, which might end up with an attempted assassin's bullet in an agent's chest. Putting that very impor- tant component aside for the moment, there is another im- portant job the Secret Service are tasked with doing: counter- ing counterfeiting crimes. As it is, there are now Se- cret Service teams aided by the Central Intelligence Agency that are transversing the Middle East. Is the President planning a trip to the Middle East soon? He may end up there for some reason, but that is not why these Secret Service teams are over there. The case involves $1 00 dollar bills, called Superdollar or Supernate, which are fake American $100 bills that are as good as they come. Officials say that the dollars are made with rag cotton paper which real U.S. money is printed on, and also contain tiny red and blue fibers and an embedded plastic strip, which is also in real dollars. The notes are printed on intaglio presses, which imprint bills from etched plants with great force. These presses are used by the United States and countries such as Iran, with smaller commercial units available. The Secret Service has con- fiscated up to $10 million of these fake bills. \Several Ad- ministration officials said the inquiry has turned up hints of sponsorship by foreign govern- ments, including suspicions that Iran might be printing the 3. Would you support Serbian President Milosevic's prosecution as a war criminal, even ifit broke the peace? bills and Syria sanctioning their distribution. There are also signs that some of the bills have been used by people with ties to terrorist orgai1izations.\ However, there is not enough evidence to clearly implicate any nation, individual, or group. The General Accounting Office report noted that the Su- per dollar represents a problem of vulnerability to counterfeit- ing. The Secret Service does not have the manpower abroad to adequately control the situa- tion. Typically, there are only 20 Secret Service agents sta- Economic security is the backbone of a s t r o n g The economy. currency that economy mustbe protected at all of costs. tioned in six foreign offices, and the Service opet1ed four more, and sent a dozeJl more agents overseas. Congress appropri- ated $5 million for expanded activities overseas in 1994. l11e counterfeiters have been smart not to flood the market with these bills, which would lower their value. The United States suspects that Iran could be be- hind this to boost its budget. There is $380 billion in U.S. cun·ency circulating, two-thirds of which crosses international borders. The report noted that the lack of control in halting the spread of this counterfeiting could undermine confidence in the dollar abroad. President Clinton is reported to have asked Syrian President Hafez el Assad for information on the identities of the counterfeiters, when they met in Geneva in January 1994. The Secret Ser- vice has with foreil:,lll help made big arrests with the seizure of $129 million in fake $100 bills, . yet these bills ate appearing everywhere from Moscow to Hong Kong. The CIA reported 4. The Cl.inton trade policy, should it resort to even tougher measures to open markets? that it believed that there is up to $1 billion in these notes. The Treasury is redesigning its currency next month, start- ing with $ WO bills. The older bills will not be recalled, how- ever, and will continue in cir- culation. The President of the United States should ask Con- gress for a bill that stipulates that the older bills be ex- changed for the newer ones, once the Treasury certifies that the $100 bills are legitimate. Secret Service agents and F.B.I. agents should set up regional offices in every country that they can and consult foreign and domestic banks to provide detection measures. Proposals to streamline inte11igence agen- cies should be made with a con- current need for priorities, such as nuclear trafficking, drug traf- ficking, currency protection, and regional threat watches. all combined under a strategic per- spective that all view each in- dependent threat in a coordi- nated fashion. If a terrorist group is behind this act, and they flood the market with these notes, it could be defined as disruptive economic terrorism. There will always be bombings and other aggressive acts, but with the world economy the way it is, economic terrorism could be the future. Using American Intelligence and law enforcement in combination with foreign govemments will protect the security of the dol- lar. The dollar is a national security priority as high as mili- tary threats against the United States. Write for World News Call X 6155 and get involved. Democrats, Republicans, Independents, and people interested in what is going on around them and how it impacts the world, will find that the World News section is right for you. 5. Who do you believe has the best chance o beating Bill Clinton i11 the November election?

\ .~ 0:~ • .. ·.:' :-li't}J/;t ~~ ,\\ ,,, .. --~-~ Page 6 March 7, 1996' 'm£r~ <!rnnt:nrbi~ltsis International: * Two suicide bombings in Israel killed 25 and hurt 77 people. This breaks the six month cease fire that was in effect. Barnas says that the bombings were revenge at- tacks for the assassination of Y ahya Ayyash, the. architect of the suicide campaign, who was killed on January 5th by an enclosed bomb booby trap in a cellular phone. Prime Minister Peres promises a tough war on Hamas. * President Clinton is forced to deal with Castro, the em- bargo, and the Cuban com- munity because of the shoot down by Cuban Mig fight- ers of the Brothers to the Res- cue, which is an Anti-Castro group. * The leaders of Britain and Ireland said negotiations among all sides over the fu- ture of Northern Ireland are set to continue. * The Export-Import Bank, the export credit arm of the Government, has agreed to defer requests for $10 billion in financing consisting of loan guarantees and export credits awaiting approval for American corporations seek- ing to do business in China, for at least a month at the re- quest of the Clinton Admin- istration, which is deciding how to respond to China's violations of agreements in shipping technology related to nuclear weapons develop- ment. * A former whites-only school in South Africa that was forced to admit black has halted plans to fight the decision. At least 16 black primary school pupils started classes at school, bringing hundreds-of white students to boycott the integration. * King Hussein of Jordan condemned the killing oftwo high level Iraqi defectol's, who were sons-in-law of Saddam Hussein. * President Clinton asked Congress for approval for $200 million to increase Jor- daniart security in.the Middle East with 16 F-16 fighters. Fow;;out of the sh<:teenwould be Jeaf?edi .. .and Jhen passed -intoo: JQ.rdan military stock- pileS;·; · · - * Foqd.l :of 199S. exports wert.i.$783. 7 billion and im- poffs ~~re $894,7 billion, resulting in a d~ficit 6r $1 n bilfion; iiti$4.~ billi~n; or 4.5 percerit;~t(om l994's._deficit of$ lO(ti'.billion. . *The Japanese trade surplus is down to $59.3 billion from $65. 7 billion in f994. Even · though exports were up and Japanese auto imports de- clined, these do not account for Japanese operations in Asian nations or Japanese production inside the United States. * Daiwa Bank pleads guilty to covering up the $1.1 bil- lion dollar loss in trading 1,1t its New York branch. The bank will pay a $340 million fine, and the United States will drop its inquiry. Nation: * The Clinton Administra- tion said the trust fund that pays Medicare's hospital bills would probably run out of money in the middle of 200 1, rather than at the end of 2002. Several Cabinet of- ficials were briefed on the matter, yet President Clinton, his Chief of Staff Leon Panetta, or Budget director Alice M. Rivlin were not in- fonned. * The Clinton policy of \Don't Ask, Don't Tell, Don't Pursue\ concerning gays in the military was de- signed to be a middle of the road solution to the question of gay troops in the military and has produced more dis- missals of gay service mem- bers than before. Mr. Clinton tried to lift the ban on gays serving in the military and was challenged by the Mili- tary, the Congress, and the public. * Speaker Newt Gingrich re- vived the idea that a balanced budget could be reached. The Republicans broke off talks with the White House, to have a \referendum\ on the budget in the November elec- tions. This may be a result of the trouble Mr. Dole is having in the campaign for the Republican nomination. * The House approved sweeping changes in the Fed- eral Fann policy. The legis- lation phases out subsidies over 7 years. Lawmakers from both houses of Con- gress will meet to work out a compromise bill that can be sent to the President. * Democrats, using a proce- dural tactic which denied the required unanimous consent to a request by Senator D'Amato for an indefinite. extension and $600,000 mote for the Whitewater inquiry, pulled the plil.g; -~_t':l~~st for . now, on the Senate Whitewat-er Commitiee Hearings. * Genera·) , Barry R. McCaffrey:. who became the new drug czar, urges that drugs be dealt with like the ·problem of cancer, in coQrdi- nation with tough. enforce- . ment and intl;!rdiction efforts. * TV executives promised Clinton a violence ratings system by January 1997 for television. Dear World News Read·ers: I am writing this to infonn you that this will be my last issue as World News Editor. Tite reason I chose not to continue as World News Editor is due to the factthat I have an internship at The Em- pire Stale Report Magazine next term in addition to a full course load. Further, this coming. faH term I will be in Israel on a tenn abroad. To sign on for another year as the World News Editor, when I will not be. able to do the job required for two out of the three terms, is simply not right, and it is unfair to you as the reader. Therefore, I wanted to persona1ly thank each and every one of you who has read my section, and for those who went further to disagree and respond. We may have sepa• rate ideas, but the fact that we can communicate them in an open fo~ rum is t,rreater than the differences we may have. I hope you. continue to respond, and for those who have sat on the sidelines, I hope there is more feedback from you as well. The person who will pick up the task next term is Anand Rao, who a member of the World News Staff. I have great confidence that he will continue to do an excellent job, just as he has done in his writing. I will continue to help him and write, when my schedule pennits. TI1e past fiscal year (spring to spring) has seen many exciting developments as well as some tragic ones. We have seen a world growing increasingly interdepen- dent, and nations confident to take the challenge forward instead of listening to political leaders that would make the consumer pay more and threaten the jobs devoted to exports as the result of protec- tion they encourage. We have seen the Oklahoma City bombing and witnessed the horror as Americans attacked innocent women, men, and children (also babies). We have sdm America come together in a crisis like this; it is time we Election '96 Do you know enough about the ,;andidates? Where do you stand? What is most im.pqrtant to you? Decide! . Be- cause decision time is approach- . 'ing soon. .; see America unite in prosperity as well as tragedy. We have seen what American leadership can do when it is ex~rcised with the strength of who we are as a people and a nation. American leadership, combined with NATO flexing its muscle and straightening its ·backbone, and war exhaustion and battlefield gains by the Muslims and Croats have brought the three waning f~ctions ofthe foimer Yugosla- via to Dayton and towards peace and~ brighter f11ture, Of course things are not perfect in Bosnia, but they are a lot better than they llave been for fot1r years. We have also seen the assassi- nation of Prime Minister Yitzak Rabin of Israel and a strong na- tion detennined to carry forth the peace, despite the present suicide bombing and .the wide- spread disagreement over how to achieve peace. We have seen the Government of the Uuited States produce a balanced bud- get .in seven years, yet we need to see it enacted. To close; we have see11 Con- gress' commitment to -tackle some areas of spending wbere further leadership must be ex-. ercised. The Not In My BackYard (NIMBY) factor must be controlled. There can- not be government goodies, withoutpayingforthem, period! America's commitment to free trade is irreversible, yet our gov- ernment should use whatever it takes to open up other nation's economies to our trade as our economy is ()pen to them. Walls around our country will cost more in terms of jobs, prices, prosperity, and happi- ness. Is that looking out for America? ·The United States military must be prepared to de- fend the areas that we value stra- tegically. TI1e Star Wars mis- sile defense shield will not pro- •,. :;:- teet us, because if that catastro- phe were to happen, it would probably be due to terrorism smuggled in or made here, not a missile launched against us. Crime control is essential. The nation must control crime, which means controlling illegal drugs. 1l1e three strikes your out in base- ball is not the same as crime. If a person commits a crime and gets out and winds up back in the jail for an equal or worse crime, they should not get another chance to commit more crimes. The nation needs an effective death. penalty, one where the ap~ peal process does not last for de- cades. . The victim of that crime is dead, yet the criminal. who is responsible, lives foryears, where is that justice? l11e present sys- tem has the victim of that crime serving the criminal's death pen- alty sentence. Limiting appeals to a certafn atnount of years. does not deprive the criminal of his/ ber rights, but adheres to the vic- tints rights that are often ne- glected. Finally, the election in Novem- ber is a question of where this country is going, who will take us there, and how we will get there. Look carefully, it is a very important decision. Once again, thank you for reading. Sincerely, Matt Sandler P.S. If anybody should l1ave a problem with what is said here, with any part,. and since this is the last issue, ph~ase send a letter by Campus mail to Box 1928 and let me know. I am always interested in feedback. Thank you, and good luck to everybody for finals and in the following tenns. . ' ' ' ,·)':_~. . Make snre >~y.puiapply for 'absentee bal- .-~;:. -'~lpts-ifyou ~re .. · · · 'nof going to be· inside your state for the ... prima- .'· ries, Oil the general .ele.c- tion in No- vember. I t j 1 '.1 .'j ., ,, r; \ )i ,, fl !1 IJ ,, l1 L ll ,.1 11 t; 1 :·;· ·' '1 l _, l ·' ·;

! -i I . i i j i ' .1 · «Luncnr:lri.ensis Marcb 7, 199.6 Are U confused on the issue of free trade? ;f.l . the figures may not balance, rather they will be a little above or below equilibrium. tl:tred in Mexico at a cheaper rate than in Detroit, not only will the price of cars be cheaper for con- sumers but, jobs will be diverted from inefficient car production to more efficient areas that have room for growth. Free trade cre- ates a cycle that gradually syphoons jobs from inefficient areas to tnore efficient areas. This will make the United States more efficient in resource aUocation. The economy will !,'TOW and there will be greater prosperity. Akin Sawyerr /Jusiness Editor Free trade is an essential part oftl1e world's economy. Advo- cates of isolationistn are just ig- norant to·the system of free trade and how it works. One of the simplest eeooomic principles is the theory of coniparative cost ad,. vantage. A good understanding of this concept will greatly en- hance knowledge of free trade and its benefits. Adam Smith is commonly credited with introducing the COllcept (If comparative advan- tage, but 'he never advocated the concept. Adam Smith y,ras con- cerned with another theory called absolute advantage. Absohlte advantage involves specialization within the confines of a country. The aim of absolute advantage is to be able to produce au good better than any country can. Smith also advocated the invis- ible hand theory which stems from his theory of absolute ad- vantage. The invisible hand theory simply states that as people compete in a domestic market to fulfill their selfish goals, they in- directly help out the rest of the community by provid- ing jobs and services at cheaper prices. Cheaper prices arise as long as there is perfect .competition in the market (i.e. anybody can produce whatever products they want to ). The theory of comparative ad- vantage is almost the opposite of absolute advantage. For simplic- ity, let us assume there are only two comttries and two goods in the world (bread and wine). If both countries can produce both goods with all their resources, but each country can produce one product better than the other, it will make sense for each country to specialize in producing the prodttct that it has an advantage in producing. In essence, theory of comparative advantage is more common sense than economic theory. Consequently, when people assume that Africa or Brit- ain has no comparative advan- tage in producing any products, they are simply confusing com- parative advantage with absolute advantage. The ability to decipher the dif- ference between the concept of comparative advantage and .abso- lute advantage is very important. Advocates of isolationism don't seem to grasp the difference be,. tween the two. A lot of people believe that free trade will not be benefidal unless their country has an absolute advantage in pro- ducing all goods. TI1is is almost impossible. Isolationsism is an invisible fence that restricts en- try and exit by placing tariffs on goods and services. It is harmful LOSE 20 POUNDS IN TWO WEEKS! Famous U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team Oiet · During the non-sf!OW off season the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team ~mbers used the \Ski Team· diet to lose 20 pounds in two weeks. That's riQht • 20 pounds in 14 days! The basis of the diet is chemicat food acuon and was devised by a famous CQiorado physician especially far the U .. s. Ski Team. Normal energy is .maintained (very important!) while reduc1ng. You keep ,ull\ • no starvalion • because the diet is designed ttlat way. Irs a diet that is easy to foliow whetl:ler you work, travel or stay . at home. (For men, tool) · . This is,.honestly. a tantasti<:ally successful diet. If it weren't, the U.S. !JI!omen's Alpine Ski Team wouldn't be permitted to use it! Righi? So. g~e ~rself the same bre~ the U.S. Ski Team gets. Lose weight the SCientifiC, proven way. Even.1f you\ve tried all the other diets. you owe. it to yourself to tty the U.S. Women·~ Alpine Ski Team Diet. That is, if you really do want to lose20 pounds 1n two weeks. Order today! Tear·this out as a reminder. Sencf only $8.95 ($9.60 in Calit.)•add .50 cents RUSH service to:. AmeriCan lnatilute, 7343 El c.mlnO Real, SUile 208, AtacadiHa, CA 93422. ~'t Oi'der unlesa .you expect .,.lose 20 paundlln two weeks! BtcaUM·thll'S what !he Ski Tum Diet will db; 01995 Help Wanted Photographer for • large, eastern N I Y~ studio. Experince and transportation necessary. Contact 453- 6252, ext. 5. to a country's economy and its ex- istence. The British learned this the hard way after their mercan- tilist policies proved disastrous. The British hurt their economy by being isolationists. I don't think any country should revert to such backward policies in this day and age. Free trade is soben- eficial that even the least produc- tive countries can still benefit hy producing products they can manufacture with their highest level of efficiency. Tenns: l11e principle of comparative advantage is regarded by many as the only result in economic theory that is not trivial. Not to discount the importance of other vital economic theories, com- parative cost advantage is prob- ably the most accurate theory in economics. The model nonnally uses two countries and two goods for simplicity. An increase in the number of goods and countries will not make a big difference. Although free trade may reduce real income, aggregate income will rise as a result of cheaper The issue of job loss is an im- portant issue that is being debated in the United States. The fact that jobs are being lost to countries that can produce goods in that market more efficiently than us means that we need to divert our resources to areas where we have a comparative advantage in pro- duction. Only then will the United States be competitive with the rest of the world. Japan found its niche in the technology mar- ket, we need to find ours .in an- other where we can manufacture products more efficiently than others. The loss of manufactur- ing jobs to countries like Mexico also means Real income:- Monetary value of income. Aggregate income:- Buying power of income. Equilibrium:- Point of equal- that more jobs will be created in other areas involving in- ternational trade. There- importation of our prod- ucts from other coun- tries will re- quire more jobs at air- ports and sea- ports. The real implica- tions of free The geometry of geography ~-am I • · INIId 70 products. 30 11111 ''\'.lid \\i>Om 100 -~~~~~~------- ' E.,..,. At the onset of free trade, there may be huge inequalities in the gains that various countri~s are receiving. An ex- ample of this is the United States trade surplus with Japan. The surplus is !:,rradually declining and will eventually fall to or close to trade is not job loss but job redistri- bution. 1 of bt1.ct equilibrium. At the point of equi- librium, there will be a balance of trade. Theoretically there will be a balance, but in the real world To break it down simply, ifcars can be manufac- 1--~\''i'\.. 30 50 100 World famous PSYCHIC to stars and celebrities--35 years experi- ence--can! h~lp you to obtain love, health, wealth and luck. Tele- phone David Gaurdino ANY- TIME at 423-558-1197 or 214- 340-9844; Fax 214-341-0606 SENIORS are interested in speaking at the Baccalaureate or Commence- , . submit a 1-4 page draft (approx. 5 min.) to Judy Ludwig, Secretary to the Dean of the Faculty and a member of the Commence- ment Committee~ by Friday. April21# The topic is yours to ehoose. Please include your ID number, name, box nwnber and phone number on YOUf draft. Ifyou are interested in singing at the Bacclllaureate or Commencement, please submit your name to Judy Ludwig by Friday. April 21. If you would like more information about this, contact Judy Ludwig at 6010 or at the Dean of the Faculty's Office on the second floor of the Administration Building. · Auditions for speakers and singers will be held by the student members ofthe Commencement Committee in late April or early May. Sign up for an audition time when you submit your draft or name to Mrs. ..,~..;: ... · 's office .. lnld

·OPIED 'athe O.Lntt:cnrniensis • March 7, 1996 • ·Page ,8 ' . ' . . · EDITORIAL · ' • I ' ' . . ' . Treat us Like Adults Too often here at Union, we are being treated like unmotivate igh school students. It seems as though students often deman o be spoonfed information in class, and have their learning pro ess micro-managed by the teacher. The shocking thing is tha any members of the faculty are willing to indulge them in this: urthermore, the practi~es of monitoring day-to-day reading an · aking attendance seem to us to be more the role of a first-grad . eacher than a college professor. This sad state of affairs can of course be blamed on both th tudents and the professors._ Unfortunately, though, it is the pro essors who should be wise enough to realize that by catering t his type of student attitude they are in fact fostering it. We fee · hat it is more useful to have professors assist students in th earning process, holding them to a high standard, rather than try · ng to force them into it. Do not misunderstand us, we are not implying that student hould not be held accountable. It is the method of enforcemen hat troubles us. It is more beneficial to evaluate students in a wa hich reflects how much they have learned and how deeply the ave thought. Obviously reading and attendance ought to play arge role in this develop!llent of thought and knowledge, and ough ccordingly to affect the final product in a natural way. Quizze imed at simply determining who read, and roll-calls to see wh · othered to get out of bed, seem to us to be faulty in two ways. irst, they waste the time of the students and faculty, but secondl nd more significantly they encourage the students to be depen ent on the faculty's vigilant baby-sitting to succeed. Faculty, ask yourselves: are you here to help us learn to thin · 'ndependently, or to train us to be obedient employees? Are yo· ffering a liberal education or a vocational behavior-modificatio rogram? Sad to say, the Union faculty is in certain respects adopt 'ng the role of facilitators of the infantile behavior of the lowes ommon denominator. The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Anthony C. LaVecchia, Evan L. Morris EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Michelle Ellis NEWS EDITOR LarryPaska ARTS EDITOR Scott Steadman LAYOUT EDITOR Adam J. Richman ASSOCIATE EDITOR Rick Lederer Laurel Ruma PHOTO EDITORS Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Jennifer Pelose Peter Farnum ASSISTANT COPY EOITORS Eric Svenson Jonathan Fader SPORTS EOITORS Matt Sandler WORLD NEWS EDITOR Peter Sorensen FEATURES EDITOR David Pinkowitz, Lisa temoi EXECUTIVE EDITOR DavidEder Chris Richards LIVING EDITORS Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Tatiana Cogevina COMPUTER MANAGER Barry Eisenberg ON-LINE DIRECTOR Jared Richman CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Raquel Millman OPINIONS EDlTOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, l aurie Kirschner, Shaun- Paul Manore. STAFF: Dagan LaCorte, Greg Kalish, Omar Al-Khalidi, Emily Battis, Jeff Druzba, Jon Gasthalter, Mike Leding, Conor McKenzie, Martin Metz, Aaron Sicotte, Aileen Quigly, Kathy Walters, Brandon D • . Declet, Stephanie Slobotkin,Anand Rao, Karen Watts, Michelle Neier .. • / u / . ·'' I/ '/ • • • 0 u 0 • ., ' Tfil S (AfV\(>US IS • BeAUTIFUl-!! :I MEAtJ .WHite A~ FAR • As \\\~ E'fE tA\-.> SEE ... s~,c,~ c~6!! • • .. • ·• ~· D ·. . . ·. OP-ED .· The Last Word by Jared Richman Associate Opinilms Editor In my younger days, when llivedathome with Mom and Dad~ there was a constant battle raging. My brother and I fought more than we got along. It didn'teven matter what it was we were fighting about. We just liked taking part in a knockdown, drag out, full scale battle of sense- less arguing. We beateach other up out of sheer bore- dom (much like many drunk party goers at Union). Oddly enough, there was no prize other than the Last Word. All we wanted wasto annoy the other just a little bit more, just one last insult. Now, I' d thought that this concept would be dead at the mature collegiate level. Silly me, I was naive. In fact, in my two and a half glorious years atthis institution, I've realized that the Last Word is still the most coveted prize. The past few issues of the Concordiensis have verified this. No one wants to let himself ot herself go unheard. Thankfully, Union College has a great many Last Word enthusiasts. The Concordy challenged, somewhat unfairly I suppose, that Union College harbors apathetic students. It tossed some unpopular views into the public eye, views which af- fected some students. Luck- ily, many of those students still believe in the faithful ole Last Word, and the backlash was wonderfully loud and raucous. Egos were questioned, insults were traded, values and rights were certainly examined, even the quality of the Newspaper was challenged. Perhaps not everyone used the most tact- . ful of responses, but they were all interesting nonetheless. Well folks, being one of those who always wants to have the Last Word, I want to throw my two cents into the fray. The Concordy is first and foremost yournewspaper. It represents this college as much as each of its students, perhaps collectively evert more so. It is a forum for debate and a notable show- piece ofUnion' s strengths and weaknesses. Intelligent de- bate is good, and everyone deserves to be heard (free speech is wonderful isn't it?) Therefore, it is up to every- one who reads this periodical to make comments, sugges- tions, praises, etc., but more important, and overall, to con- tribute to its pages. The Concordy will only be as good as the college. - I am not chastising anyone. Nor am I praising, defending, or pleading (or arguing). I am merely infotming. That is what a newspaper should do. And that, my friends, is the Last Word. t I i f, ; I

I I ,If',.. .• -~,.f,.. '-t ,:\_ . 1' ; ·, ; ... ~ \' . 1996 • {ftqt <f1P\tJCll;tltl~1t$tS The Driving Out of The Druids Dear Editor, Saint Patrick's Day commemorates the driving the. \snakes\ out of Ireland. \Snake\ can refer to a slithering reptile, ora lying sneaky huinan. Beforte Saint Patrick brought in the Catholic religion, the Dmjdrel'igion reigned supreme. If someone did not know any better, they may have to I d people tbe Druidreligion was full ·of snakes. The Catholic religion offered Heaven in one life of worship. The Druid religion taught Heaven could be achieved after reincamating back to Earth, numerous times, i:mtil a degree of tme knowledge was attained in your etemal mind which helps you to be happier. Between incamations, we stay in the Astral planes, which is at a higher unseen frequency and ofless dense matter. Heaven is beyond the Astral planes. Nicer people get to live h1 the better Astral planes. The Catholic religion told people you could be forgiven for bad deeds by praying. The Druid religion held you can tnake up for past wrongs, bydoing good deeds and by helping those you have hurt, either now or in a future life, or you may suffer sicknesses in future life incamations for lmrtingotl1ers during your one etemallife. The Druid religion used a tree to explain God to .people. We are the acoms and young trees, and God is the oldest, largest, wisest tree .of us aU, from which we all sprouted. They also taught that nature is a part of our being, our minds extend to nature, and nature becomes a part of our mind, and you can tune in to and mentally feel the beauty of nattJre. With the help of the Roman atrny ~the Roman Catholic religion became more popular; and the truth and knowledge of the Druid religion, and the wise tnen who were called snakes, left Ireland. Truth is Happiness, Sue Saintmarie The Truth About Malls by Jeffery Druzba Every once in a great while, I get a han- kering to go to the mall and look around. I'm always amused by how many Union College students I see at Crossgates on a day like Sunday. Inevitably, 1'11 share the \look of acknowledgment\ severaltimes in one aftemoon at the malL Somehow, when you get the look from a fellow Union stu- dent while you are at Ctossgates, it all jus- tifies the pathetic act of being at the mall on the weekend. I mean, now you are both witnesses to how sad you both are, no matter if you never speak to that person on campus. They'll always k1'1ow the truth about you and vice versa, it'll be your dark little secret. As I walk by Lechters, \Doesn't she go to Union?\ The look ensues. Up- stairs, in front of the food court, \He's in one of my classes, Ito?\ He gets the look. The \look of acknowledgme11e' is coni- prised of simple eye contact and a half tilt of the head. (It's also, surprisingly, the in- tetnational sign of two !:.'l.lYS recognizing each other as just that. You're at some sort of social function. No one you know is there, but this girl you're with knows an- other one who brought a date of her own. They talk, you two men share the look tlmt says, \Hey you're aguy.l'm a guy. What's with all this?\) A lot can be said i11 bodily gestures like that. So, you're walking in the mall, Jookit'lg around, checking everything out when you note the music they have playing is the latest playlist from your favorite radio sta- tion and you think, \Wow these guys are cool. They know what the deal is.\ On you walk, looking at the endless tiled floor, you're looking at your feet and, in a sud- den revelation, it all comes to you at once, You've been walking to the beat of the mu- sic they have .playing since you've been in the place. You look like an idiQt. A little stagger step will take care ofthat and you quickly take care of the problem. Of course, everyone saw you control tl1e matter .as they lodked down on you frorn the food court. Sttrely, they understand what hadto be done, Of course, unknown malls always lend to a certain uncomfortable feeling. It's at a fm:eign mall that you becm1w most vul- nerable. You tum into the wandering stu- pid mall walker sort you hate because you have no clue in your new surroundings. Then you come to the end of a corridor and here's where the worst part is. You have to somehow disguise the fact that you're an idiot and have no idea where you're going. The Dreaded Mallwalker Turnaround Move must be initiated. You casually put your hands into your pock- ets first and now must choose between two options: (1) Just suddenly pivot and start walking in the other direction. T11is is a bit more drastic of a turn but gets the job done or (2) Rounding the tum out by walking around that tree and plant island and coming out on the other side of the corridor. A bit more disguised but it takes more time. In any event, you're sure to be noticed as. \foreign to these here parts\ as many of the locals give you the hor- rible look ofthe same name. The part I hate the most about malls is some of the people that I see there.l espe- cially hate it when 1 get cut off by this family in front of me, walking five-wide. Country bumpkins who come out to the city once a year to see how the fancy people live. Just coming into the mall to buy some calico for little Suzie's new dress. I always get stuck behind these people and I swing out to the outside to pass them, but that's the point when Jethro makes a dash for the Jo-Ann's Nut fac- tory stand and I'm cut off. So, I try to pass on the inside but Aunt Bessie stops sud- denly for a sample of beef stick dipped in mustard from Hickory Fan11s. I give the Hickory Farms lady a look of despise, I hate her for offering a sample; Forg0t it~ l must slow my pace down.l'm trapped and there is no way out but to tum around or go into a store. Damn these people! In the end, it's back to Union where we feel safe in our ways. Everyone knows l10w to walk (well, almost everyone), there is no need for the sudden turnaround move, and no real place for the \look of acknowledgment\. It does seem that the only threat we face is in walking around tours ofprospectives, led by Gatekeepers walking with their backs to us .. T11e real world is a scary place. There seems to be so much to worry about all the time. U Can Memorize, But Can U THINK? In the last .issue of 111e Concordiensis, Raquel Millman expressed disbelief at 'bility that Union students do not think. Millman states that in merely ten lwt~ek<: we \absorb centuries of thought\ read literature \that can be analyzed to 11u~'aw ',and soak \in scientific theories that seem to be a foreign language\. This is not thinking, but is rather rote memorization and absorption of facts. As students, we can memorize and regurgitate infonnation. However, thinking goes beyond sit- ting h1 a classroom or studying for a test. Those who think apply the ideas they eam, and bring to life the relationship between classroom teaming and personal experience. Unfm1unately, fnany students attend classes, and passively \absorb\ , completely unaware of the implications ofleaming to life. Millman's article naively suggests that apathetic students do not exist at Union. Yet, I have sat IIITn,··~\\'n many classes in which professors tty to initiate discussions among stu- dents who will not pm1icipate. Apathy does not apply only to \worldwide scan- s\ as Millman implies, hilt also to the interest Union students take in their own education. If we only memorize infonnation for tests and sit silently in class as professors attempt to generate discussions, we do not truly think. Millnian c1:edits all Union professors for their ability to draw input from students, reminding us that \anyone can teach\. Unfortunately, silence in a classroom does not always stem from students' unwillingness to participate. Occasionally, profes- sorsdo not excite students to discuss ideas or to think. The knowledge and teaching of the faculty represents one of Union's strongest assets, and I hold great 111r\'\\''\'\t. for many of the professors at Union. However, throughout my years as a student, both: in high school and at Union, I have experienced faculty members who cannot teach. Teaching is not \just putting stuff in\ as Millman suggests. Rather, teaching requires the ability to stimulate students to think, and to apply and explore thoughts and ideas outside of the classroom. As an aspiring teaching, I know that \anyone\ cannot teach. The article cQntinues to assert that Union students have more regard for personal than \biting off more than we can chew\. While, as students, we make cant contributions to Union and inevitably mature throughout four years, we cannot blindly ignore the rest of the world, which does not stop at the campus gates. If we are only concemed with our own personal growth, we cannot act as contribut- . g members to society. Millman states that \we care enough to make things change they affect: us\. However. we must care enough to change things when they atfect others as well as ourselves. Perhaps ifRaquel Millman recognizes the world which exists outside ofher own personal growth, she will face the reality that not all Union students take a vested interest in their education or their future. Karen DePoto Class of 1997 7his leiter was suhmilled in re.1pon.ve to u column tlwt uppeured in I he Fehmary 8 issue l!{lhe Concordiensis. It wus .mhmitted on time.for the Fehnmry I 5th issue, hut due to our error has not appeared until now. ED. CELA Clarifies We the members of the executive board of Circulo Estudiantil Latino Americana (C.E.L.A.) would like to clarify the intentions behind the article \The Ascendance of C.E.L.A.\ by Brandon D. Declet which appeared in the Concordiensis on February 22. l11e title ofthe article clearly describes the intent, which was to introduce an up and coming organization as well as to explain why it was created. Another purpose was to bring previously unacknowledged facts and opinions to light. We, the executive board, apologize for any misinterpretations of the article as well as any negative reper- cussions of certaii1 facts and opinions mentioned. l11e article as a whole was in no way, shape or fonn meant to insult the names and reputations of any particular individuals or organizations on campus. C.E.L.A. 's main goal is to enhance and proinote Latin culture and establish a Latino voice at Union COITege. We look forward to working with any organization willing to help C.E.L.A. at achieving its goals and objectives. Sincerley C.E.L.A., Executive Board

Concern About Key Note Speaker Tllis is copy of a letter se11t to President Hull Dear President Hull: I am writing to you due to my concern ·regarding the 1996 Commencement Ceremony. Four wee·ks ago, when I at- tended a Senior Class Meeting, I was upset to learn that the college had not yet obtained a Key Note Speaker. When any ideas were asked for, I along with a few other suggested that the college should try to obtain author Kurt Vonnegut Jr. The suggestion was noted and I was told it would be investigated. It is now four weeks later; I have not heard any news regarding the obtainment of Kurt Vonnegut or any Key Note Speaker. Although I have a personal in- terest in hearing Kurt Vonnegut speak, this letter is by no means a selfish attempt to obtain him as a speaker. It is, however, an attempt to raise interest in an is- sue which apparently has been overlooked. Simply put, the class of 1996 does not have a Key Note Speaker. Upon accepta.nce to Union, I was told of the excitement and pride I should feel as an incom- ing member of the 2ooth gradu- ating class ofUnion College. It is now four years later and I feel as if the members of my class and I have been forgotten. What happened to all of that pride? The 2ooth Commencement Ceremony of Union College de- serves a Key Note Speaker of national acclaim. The Union College administration often likes to compare Union College with an Ivy League school. I'm sure that if we were to look at the Ivy League schools, we would find that they all have quality Key Note Speakers for their commencement ceremo- nies. Union falls short in this area. Could this be due to the fact that Union College does ndt cur- rently offer financial compen- sation to its speakers? Just north of us, the graduating seniors at Skidmore College (a non Ivy League school) will have the honor to hear former New York State Governor Mario Cuomo speak at their ceremony. The administration .of Skidmore were willing to invest finan- cially for a memorable com- mencement ceremony. After Union students have spent ap- proximately $90,000 to attend this college, I think it's only fit- ting that the college can reward the students by making a finan- cial investment in a strong Key .Note Speaker at their Com- mencement Ceremony. President Hull, the lack of ac- tion by the administration to ob- tain a·Key Note Speaker upsets me as wellas other members of the Class of 1996. After four years of hard work, the 2ooth graduating class of Union Col- lege should receive the congratu- lations it deserves. All I'm ask- ing for is what the previous 199 graduating classes received: a quality Key Note Speaker. Sincerely, Michael McCarthy cc: The Concordiensi.;.· Legal Abortions Challenged To the Editor, The Universal Law is to love one's neighbor as one's self. But America is suffering for its failures to heed this Law. Legal abor- tion has ruptured the ties that bind us, delivering the message that human lives have value only when wanted by those more power- ful. This has deepened the alienation, anger, rebellion and hope- lessness that feed crime and other social ills. \Every child a wanted child\ has made every child a conditional child to immature par- ents, contributing greatly to postnatal child abuse (contrary to popular myth, abused children were wanted-· for the wrong rea- sons more often than those not abused). Abortion's easy avail- ability has exposed women and young girls to increased sexual exploitation and subsequent coercion to use this deadly cover-up; It has been disastrous to the physical emotion and spiritual health of women, the breast cancer connection alone now killing far more women than illegal abortion ever did. 1 more powerful vehicle for the abuse, subjugation and sufferin•; o women could hardly be imagined. Human history is littered with failed with failed attempts to mis- treat others without consequences. How much must it cost us before we concede that the Univeral Law is as real and immutable as the laws of physics? Sincerely, Alfred Lemmo Politics Can B:e Fun! Dear Edit<ilrs, Though only' a brief response should ensue to Mr. Kelly Herrington's recent Concordy defense of his clo.~·e friend's public reputation - one of slightly longer length here fol- lows: Two weeks ago, the Union community and mem- bers of Wells House failed to satisfy Mr. Herrington's lofty ideals regarding \intellectually stimulating activity outside the classroom\. Unfortunately for Mr. Herrington, the eloquent discourse provided by Bill Ferguson, Jen Lawless, Mike Elmendorf, and John Vero was simply not educating, enlight- ening, or stimulating enough for his heightened sensibility. As house manager of Wells and coordinator of a well attended political debate between stu- dents, I can only apologize: I'm sorry that you are unable to step out ofyourrigid notion of what it means to discuss politics. I'm sorry that you don't realize the value of Union students feeling comfortable, in a relaxed set- ting, discussing their views on issues of global, national, and campus importance. I'm also sorry that you felt both the pub- licity and manner in which women's issues were handled at the debate was \less than serious\. Phrased succinctly, I'm certain you realize that de- bate formats should always be fun and less than serious- only the material and marrow of de- bate should be approached in earnest. If this was not the case, The McLaughlin Group, Capital Gang, Crossfire, Ox- ford Union, and Presidential de- bates would have to close shop tomorrow. ' H<ilwever, in keeping with the . Wells House tradition of bring- ing serious reporting to the populous in an entertaining fash- ion: we present to you, the in- formed, discriminating, and in- tellectul;ll student body ofUnion College, an entertaining ac- count of an entertainingly con- trived evening ofpolitical enter- tainment:: Art eerie silence swept over the. audience, a slight breeze blew through the house, an.d in the corner, many of the visitors spied a tumbleweed blowing. to and fro. The visitors exchanged uncomfortable glances amongst themselves, something was go- ing to happen soon. Just then, from behind them, Fleetwood Mac's timeless hit \Don't .Stop\ began to blare from the speaker. In a blinding flash of tight, something or someone ap- peared, but who was it? What could this crowd have gath~red for? The fog cleared and re- vealed to the audience what it had kept secret, John Vero and Jen Lawless of the Union Col- lege Democrats. The crowd's reaction was mixed but still, the event lacked something, the people wanted more. They were in for a treat beyond all their wildest expectations. The speaker changed ifs tune to ... what was this .... \Stay in' Alive\? And there stood Mighty Bill Ferguson and his associate Mike Elmendorf of the Union Young Republicans. The event, which took place February 21, was the first of a fine series of forums that Wells House will continue to bring to the campus. In the wake of the stunning New Hampshire .pri-. mary results, the political dis- cussion at Wells House could not have been planned for a bet- ter time. In a relaxed environ- ment amongst more than sixty of their fellow students, the two sides discussed their partisan views on topics ranging from racist conservative candidates to this year's 11 down-to-earth\ mil- lionaire from New Jersey to abortion. The audience of peers ·felt particularly comfortable commenting and adding their own insight throughout. Eventually, the event had to draw to a close. The victor of tbe evening was to be decided in the greatest match of wit l;lnd strength known to man ... an arm wrestling match between 1 ohn Vero and Bill Ferguson. Arms were flailing back and forth as sweat collected on both brows. Time passed on and seconds ticked away within each competitor's mind ... Tick ... Tick. .. Tick ... and SLAM! With encouraging shouts of \LaFalce LaFalce\ Bill Ferguson convincingly defeated his oppo- nent. His victory dance in the face of John Vero was the ulti- mate shame. Many people stayed and discussed items of interest around the cheese table while still others immediately left wondering, fot the rest of the night, \When are they going to have another one of those?\ Look for entertaining signs and listen for the rumors ... Wells House will continue to bring you the best mix of political discus- sion, entertainment, and free food in the months to come. Sincerely Mike Ferguson CELA Clarifies We the members of the executive board ofCirculo Estudiantil Latino Americano (C.E.L.A.) would like to clarify the intentions behind the article •'The Ascendance ofC.E.L.A.\ by Brandon D. Declet which appeared in the Concordiensis on February 22. . The title of the article clearly describes the intent, which was to introduce an up and coming organization as well as to explain why it was created. Another purpose was to bring previously unacknowledged facts and opinions to light. We, the executive board, apologize for any misinter- pretations of the article as well as any negative repercussions of certain facts and opinions men- tioned. The article as a whole was in no way, shape or form meant to insult the names and reputations of any particular individuals or organizations on campus. C.E.L.A. 's main goal is to enhance and promote Latin culture and establish a Latino voice at Union College. We look forward to working with any organization willing to help C.E.L.A. at achieving its goals and objectives. Sincerley C.E.L.A., Executive Board

Library Attempts to Allay Concerns To the Editors of Concordiensis: Recent Concordy photds and articles about Schaffer Library have reflected the campus community's understand- able concern about our plans for not only the new 'library, but also the state of library services during the 18 months of constwctiotl. First, the calendar. We plan to break ground in early Fall Term, 1996. For the first half of construction, we will demo.Jish the back of the building (known as the 1974 addition). Books, services, and study space will all move forward to the older 1961 portion ofthe building. Priority will be given to space for library services and study space. Books that don't fit will go into off-site storage. The library will arrange a daily (including weekends) retrieval service. We will also provide increased elec- tronic document delivery for the fastest possible service. As always, we will point you to other sources of informa- ' tion in the Capital Region. Increased study space options will be provided across the campus. There will most certainly be some noisy and dusty peri- ods, and we will do our best to alert you to these. Construction noise will almost always cease around 3 pm. When the new back .is completed, we will move into it, close and remodel the front half(not tear it down!), and reverse the move described above. We look forward to dedicating the new Schaffer Library in late 1997. This new building will provide hundreds of comfortable spaces for high or low-tech group or private study. ALL of the ma- terials in storage will return to the main building .. Librarians will be able to serve campus instructional needs far better in our state..,of ... the~art electronic classroom. The second floor Learning Center will also include the language lab, Instruc- tional Technology, and the Wtiting Cen- ter. And, yes, there wiU be reading ma- terial in this new building! It is precisely for that reason that we have been care,.. ful to control bricks and mortar costs so that on opening day we have financial potential to add books and periodicals and upgrad.ed c.omputer equipment as needed. Second, the services. The architects must comply with the college's require- ment that the library provide FULL SER- VICEduring the construction period. All demolition and construction plans were designed with that goal in mind. I have already mentioned retrieval services for any books and periodicals placed into off-site storage. We expect that most circulation, reference, special collec- tions, bibliographic instruction, freshman preceptorial, and interlibrary loanldocu- ltlent delivery services will continue as always. Some library staff will be telecommuting, and some offices will be moved, but for the most part the ser- vices should remain the same for the li- brary users. I do, however,. alert faculty and stu- dents that there may be some delays or inconvenience for research projects or programs which involve library SPACE or subject areas not well covered at Schaffer Library, or in off-site storage. It is crucial that faculty or students no- tify me IMMEDIATELY of any pro- grams, courses, or research projects that require significant library preparation time. This is especially true of summer programs! During Summer 1996 we will be packing boxes and moving of· fices, so we need to anticipate your re .. search needs NOW. We assure you that we will come up with creative solutions, if you give us lead time. We are also asking that prospective donors of book collections hold those donations until the new building is com- pleted. We cannot guarantee that dur- ing construction we will have appro- priate storage space for giftsofthatkind. p,Jease cont~:tct me immediately if you have exceptional circumstances. Third, communication. Starting Spring Term 1996, the campus com- munity can access the latest informa- tion regarding the library construction via the World Wide Web. At Schaffer Library, the Reamer Center, Steinmetz, or for those of you wired at home, .sim- ply turn to the Union College Home Page, connect to \Computing & Library Ser- vices,\ and then to \What's New at Schaffer Library.\ (Use http:// www.union.edu) Also starting spring term, librarians will be scheduling meetings with fac- ulty from each academic department and program, to determine special needs within each department. I will visit Student Forum, and I am looking tor other ways to contact stu- dents with specific concerns. Please let me know, and I will be happy to hold meetings wherever and whenever. I am a phone call or e-mail message away! Barbara Jones, Director .of Schaffer Library 388-6277; jonesb@conan.union.edu The Administration's Role Examined Editor: I would like to start out by saying that the purpo3e of this letter is not to lay blame or point fingers. The purpose of this letter is to open some minds and maybe to start some discussion. I am currently a Junior, and students here have been accused of apathy ever since my Freshman year. Recently, there have been a number of articles and letters arguing both sides on the issue of this apathy. I feel that all this energy is being mis- placed from the main problem facing us, the students, at Union. This prob- lem is the Administration. Now it would not be nice or reasonable to make an accusation like this without some proof The truth is that there is no proof. Simi- larly, there is no proof of student apa- thy. Based on these instances, you make the decision. Case 1: The Biology Department. Two of my friends who are Junior biology majors each signed up for three biology card courses, hoping to get into one or two of them. Neither of them got a card for' any of the classes. What I do not understand is that these students need these courses to graduate. I want to know when they are sup- posed to take them, since higher level biology courses are only taught once a year. Where does the problem lie? I am under the belief that this type of thing happens to many biology majors every term. Is the biology department not equipped to handle the amount of stu- dyilts that that are biology majors? Maybe it is the case that the biology de- partrnent does not want these students to graduate, Maybe the biology depart- ment needs to expand its staff to fit the demand of students who wants tv be biology majors. It is unfair to pick on one department, but this type of thing is occurring throughout all departments. Who do the departments report to? The Administration. Case 2: Dining Services. Pretty much everyone knows that the students on campus were duped by the Administra- tion on this one. I remember my fresh- man year there was only talk of privatizing dining services. I believe it was even said that nothing would happen without stu- dent approval. However, much to my sur- prise, when I came back for 1994, Marriot was in and UC Dining Services was out, no ifs ands or buts. The stu- dents had no say. The Administration did what it wanted, with no regard to what the students wanted, and they did it be- hind our backs. All they cared about was the bottom line. Case 3. The Meal Plan. I for one really dislike the Marriot food, so when I joined a fraternity I thought all my meal troubles would be gone. I would get really good food at my house for less than half of what a meal plan costs. But the Admin- istration had . to step in again, without caring what any of the students who would be affected had to say, and made it virtually impossible fot any Greek house to maintain a kitchen. There are many more examples, just sit down and brainstorm for about ten minutes, and you could probably sorne with a dozen or so. There are two main problems with the Administration: A) they do not care about the student body and B) they are not willing to take the responsibility that is required ofthem to do their jobs. I am not saying that these people are bad .people or that they are doing this inten- tionally. l am saying that they have to reexamine their role in this place we call Union is. What exactly is their job? and What is the best way to accomplish this in the best interests of the students? Are the questions that they need to ask and answer. My role, and the rest of the student body's role, is to be students. While some people are not always the best stu- dents, we are all students nonetheless. What is the role of a professor? Is it to neglect teaching students who want to learn tor the sake of their researc,h? I do not believe so. What is the role of the Deans? To cut costs, raise tuition, and make our lives as hard as they can be? I do not believe so. However, this is the case, and it will remain to be so unless something is done. I for one am willing to sit down with any Administrator and help them to ex- amine their role here, however, I strongly doubt that they will even want my help. But alas, input from the students it is what they need to be successful. Sincerely, Robert Cohen Class of '97 Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OPIED page and must be received by 5 p:m, the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion ofthe Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns, or cartoons reflect the opinions ofthe writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is published eight Thursdays a telTil by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, ·copyright 1996, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, ·Schenectady, New York 12308. Telephone (518) 388-6155. The Concordiensis is printed by World Media, 1104 Central Avenue, Albany, NY, 12205. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News • Service, & King Syndicates. -.

,, I ' : ,-. :. l ,: I' • '~.~:.~.'H.~~,·~ 'I~·, ~v;t-; i\ '·'' ... /~ Pa e 12 March 7 1996 W: e Qtnucnrbiensis .\.,~~(: ~.>*';.·•tt: ~ i.))1f'i~fPJT 1 t:\~ ~·-..·\·-\~' ... ?\ ,4 ~ ~ i•ll ~ • ~~· 1- ~ ~ • \ ~ Student Forum Elections Ajay Pathak Hello, my name is Ajay Pathak. I would like the op- portunity to be able to repre- sent the sophomore class, as your representative. I under- stand that this is an awkward position to be running for con- sidering it is only available for spring term, however, I would like the chance to become an active mem- ber of. the Student Fo- rum. Some of the major issues being dis- cussed in the Student Fo- rum right now are the social and studying space of stu- dents, the term abroad program, the process by which students sell back their books to the bookstore and more student input towards faculty review. As your sopho- more class representative, I feel that it is urgent that your views on these issues be brought forth to the Student Forum as it is atlecting us in the near future. Another one of my primary concerAs is the registration pro- cess here at Union College. I, like some of you, find reg- istering for classes to be somewhat frustrating and problematic. For the size of this institution and the tuition they charge, I personally feel that the hassle of obtain- ing the classes you want is unnecessary. If elected to the position of sophomore class rep- resenta- tive, I wi II tar- get these Issues as my main objective for the upcom- ing term. As there are only two po- sitions available, I can as- sure the sophomore class that I will work to the best of my ability to remedy the situation here at Union. I also look forward to pro- moting more campus wide events through Student Ac- tivities so as to make spring term more enjoyable. So, on Friday, March 8th vote Ajay for sophomore class representative. AramGreen Good morning, good afternoon, good evening, or what- ever time it is in the day when you tind time in your busy lite to finally sit down and read this paper. For those of you who don't know me, my name is Aram Green. Last year there were many things at this school that I was not happy with. Part of the problem was that I was not making an effort to involve myself in the other aspects of Union's life. My only course of action was to complain to my parents that I wanted to transfer. When I came to the realization that I was being completely immature, I made a promise to myself that I was not going to take a back-seat at this college for the next three years. I am currently very active in my fraternity and hold a major house position. To further involve myselt~ I have re- cently been working at Chefs in the College Center. I am a very hard worker; when I place my sights on a goal I am persistent until I achieve that goal. That is how I see my role on Student Forum. If elected to Student Forum, I will actu- ally be able to make a difference. I feel that there are many things the student body would like to see changed, as well as things the student body would like to remain the same. I am not afraid to speak my mind against a stronger or more estab- lished voice. Nor will I put my personal ideas ahead of those of my classmates. I intend to represent my fellow students even if their interests conflict with my own. That is what I feel will benefit Union's best interests. I believe that in order to get the \full college experience\ one must involve them- selves in a plethora of activities at Union. Thus, as an officer of my class, I will try to involve the members of my class in campus activities, and push my fellow students to involve themselves as well. .For all of these reasons I am urging you to vote for me, Aram Green; to represent our sophomore class. Jonathan Fader I am running for the office of Sophomore Class Represen- tative, and l would like to share my specific ideas with you. I know this is a strange time for an election, but due to a leave of absence by two sophomore representa- tives this spring term, there are two vacancies on the Student Forum. I want to fi II one of these vacancies and be the link be- tween yc;mr personal opin\ ions and ideas, and the Stu- dent Forum. I am aware of the issues and goals the Student Fo- rum is presently pursuing. This election offers me the unique opportunity of involv- ing myself with all of these projects. The new social space which is being opened up in the basement of Achilles Rink this spring term, a faculty _review pamphkt to help provide the stud.ent body with more knowledge of the professors and classes on campus, and . an alternative possibility to get- ting \ripped off' by the book- s t o_r e w he .n you sell y o u r hooks back are j u s t some of t h e projects which intrigue me and I would 1 ike to help fi- nalize. I n addition to the Student Forum's present agenda, I have a number of ideas and propositions which l would like to see addressed if elected. I believe we need a review of the selection processes for both the term abroad system and the card courses system. While I consider terms abroad to be a wonderful opportunity which shauld be available to an students interested in for- eign study, I think the sys- tem of acceptance needs to be examined and altered in some ways. For instance, l believe that it is necessary to have mandated interviews for ap- plicants in .all programs before the terms abroad committee can truly understand the type of student they are reviewing. These are just a few ex- amples of positions I would take and fightfor if you elected me as your sophomore class representative. Please get to the Campus Center on Friday, March 8th, and vote for the candidate you believe would best represent you and our class' interests. Union's Literary Magazine Invites Your Creativity ! ! 1. Stories 2. Poems 3. Artwork 4. Photography Submit to Box #878 or \THE IDOL SUBMISSION BOX\ (at the mailroom) Bring your work to the farefront

('i ... ' ' Page 1~ ~~_reb 7, 1996 ffilte C1lnncorb.ieusi9. ·THE SCREENING ROOM by Lawrence Paska Am £ditor ''Rumble in:the Bronx. \ StarringJackie Chan. Directed by .Stanley Tong. are for sheer spectacle. Curious) y. despite all the hype, ther.e are only three or so s.cenes which live up to the ads. Chan stars as a young man who jour- neys to America for his uncle's wedding and helps him sell his grocery store in the Bronx, Forno logical reason, he gets mixed up with a gang of bad guys who want to hovercraft and leaping across a wide alley to the roof of another building. The film was released overseas iast year, and for the American release many scenes weredubbed ... very badly. To switchthe dialogue to English early on, the filmmak- ers employ a comical element, when the uncle asks Chan to \practice his English Arts & Entertainment film m](es placeintheBronx. Chan is supposedJy,the most popular ac- tor in the world, yet it • s surprising that none of his films have ever seen a major theatri- cal release in the states. Perhaps now that Rumble is a hit(iteamed almost $10milliol1 opening weekend), Chan will be replacing such fading action stars as VanDamme Rated R, Ne.w Line Cinema. Rating: •• (Qui of four) threaten him and the new.ownerofthe ---------------~-~------­ store. Then, Chan gets mixed upwith a Most below-par films have only one hook to secret groupwho portray themselves as . (whose Street Fighter and Sud- den Death both did poorly) and Steven Segal (who lost out with Under Siege 2), who may not FSlagentsand~eafterstolencliamonds. sell itself on, and Rumble in tile Bronx is no Most below-par films have only one hook to sell itself on, and Rumble in the Bronx is no exception: the film is only promoting the fact that its star performs all his own stunts. This: aside, the movie is nothing out of the ordinary,and In fact fits right in as a Cablea TV home Movie-of-the- Week. Becauseitisimpossibletotellhowgood exception: the fi.lm is only promoting tbe fact Chanisattecitingdialogue(mostofhis that its star performs all his own stunts. lines aredubbed),we can only go on the ____ ......._._ ........ ________ ~--------- The stuntwork is impressive, but theads lead you to believe there is a lot more ac- tion in the movie· s scant running time than it turns out. Chan(who choreographs his own fight scenes) is an impr.essive action movie star, doing many crazy stunts that assumption that to resolve the conflict, he'll have to fight his way out.of it. Some action scenes really hold up, and while the film never provides the adrena- line rosh of a Van Dam me movie which ex~ plodes every building in sight, the action sequences take on a greater intensity be- causeofthe \rawness\ ofthe action. Chart may be k'icking at stunt doubles, but that really is him water-skiing on the backofa now that he's in America.\ Even when the American actors are speaking English, though, the entire thing seems dubbed. Who's fooling who here? Director Tong photographs more strik- ing pictures of the New York sky I ine than any movie recently, although it's curious why he's so interested in looking at Man- hattan from across the river when the whole read lines much better than Chan but also don't do their own stunts. Now all Chan needs to do is take a course in writing. His laughable dialogue is made worse by poor dubbing. When he beats up the gang of thieves at their hideout, he tells the leader, ''nel(t time we meet we should be drinking tea together.\ Should Chan be given one or two lumps for that? Union Professor has/ Photography Exhibit on Display in Albany Court~y of the AlbanyC~nter -Galll!ries The Albany Center Galleries present Martin Benjamin ot:Schenectady andMark McCarty of Cropseyville, 25 Years of Pho- tography, intheLeslie UrbaCh and Upstairs Galleries of the Albany Center. Galleries, at the corner of Chapel and Monroe Streets in downtown Albany. Theexhibitionopens with a reception for the artists on March 8, 5:30\8 PM. and will be on view March 8- _ April19. Martin Benjamin and Mark: Mct:arty have been serious photographers fQr over twenty years. This exhibit will include pho- tographs that span their histories as pho- tographers. awarded a New York State CAPS (Creative Artists' Program Service) photography fel- lowship. For exhibition support and projects, Benjamin has been awarded Fac- ulty Humanities Research Grants from Union College in 1982. 1984, 1988-9, and 1993-5. Benjamin hasachieved numerous other awards and recognition for his work in juried publications. exhibitions, compe- titions, and purchase prizes. Benjamin has had solo exhibitions across the United State and in the People's Re- public of China. His photographs have been included in group exhibitions in the United states, Switzerland, Germany, France and Japan. Benjamin makes photographs to learn about the things that are his subject mat- ter. \Photography has been my vehicle into other worlds and others' lives. H has en- abled me to experience things more richly and it has been my education.\ He exhib- its to communicate these experiences and concerns to others. This exhibit will have the kinds of photographs which will invari- ably leave deep and lasting impressions. Martin Benjamin began photographing seriously as a college St\ldent. He haS been teaching photogra.phy at Union College since 1979 ~ andac~ieved the tank of Pro- fessor of Art inStpt~mber i 995. He has been actively involved in making photo- graphs for the past 27 years, creating and exhibiting new work each year. In 1974, he wasaward~.first prize in the Time-Life Bi- cen(ennial PhotographyCornpetition: His portfolio was· selected from 17.000 .photog- rapherswhosubmittedwork by esteemed Douglas Duncan. In 1980, Benjamin re- judges including Ansel Adams and David ceived a Photographer's Fund Grant from The Albany Center Galleries is open and free to the public Monday-Friday 10 AM- the Catskill Center for Photography in 4:30PM and Sunday 12 PM-4 PM For Woodstock, NY, and the following year was more information, ca//462-4775. CLOSING MARCH 9 Loca{ .Jlrts Ca{entfar this week Saratoga's Home Made Theater presents Frederick Knott's mystery, Write Me a Murder, directed by Terry Rabine, at the Spa Little Theater in the Saratoga Spa State Park. What begins as a friendly collaboration between two mystery writers to invent the perfect murder becomes all too real atRodingham Manor. With diabolical cleverness and suspense, the plot thickens with a myriad of clues, deeds, and misdeeds. The plays runs this weekend until March 9.. Tickets are,$1 S and $13. An optional dinner theater package is . available with The Gideon Putnam Hotel for an additional $16 per person plus tax and gratuity. For reservations orfurther infonnation~ call Horne Made Theaterat 587-4427. THURSDA \',MARCH 21 John Mayall & The Blues breakers, the founding father of British blues and his band, will perform at The. Empire Center ;at The Egg at 7:30 PM. Epic/Okeh recording artist Popa Chubby will open the concert. The concert, put on in association with DDE Music, is anew additionto The Egg'sschedule. Tickets to the concert are$16 and are now on sale at The Empire Center at The Egg, Borders Books and Music (WolfRoad, . Colonie), and at all Strawberries locations. For further infonnation and reservations, contact the Empire Center at The EggBoc0fficeat473-1845. ·

. ! \ .. I ! ,, . ·! Arts & theater UNION presents Beth Henley's Pulitzer Prize winning play . ,._.,..- ..•. r_ • ,...,...<-~.< 1- f .f. ~-- l-. T t .. ~.._·r ... ( ~. (.f. ,J...,• .. ·~- ·: ... ( · t.. · .,..\\ February 2$, 29, March 1, 2. 6, 7, 8, 9, 1996 Directed by Lee Ro~ 11t the Vu1man Theater, Unlnn College Tkket£ $S w/Unlon ID, $1 General Publle. Boll: Olfic~ 388·6545 Crimes of the Heart Final Three Days to Catch UNION Theater's Exciting New Play! Crew Director ........ \'·~~······································· Rose Set Designer ................................. Charles Steckler Lighting Designer .................................. John Miller Production Stage Manager ..... Caroline Harvey '98 Stage Manager .................................. Deb Leif'99 Technical DireCtor ................................ John Miller Costumer ............................. Becky Conheady '96 Props ... Greg Midland '96, Aimee Rodenwald '96 Board Operator ....................... Sara Friedman '98 Sound ............. ~ ........................... Sam Cousins '98 Electricians ...... Todd Ray \96 Adam Glauberg '96 Publicity .................................. Linda Seymour '96 Cast Lenny ......................................... Beth Decker '96 Chick,. ........................... Michelle Abramowitz '96 Doc ....................................... Dave Strickland '98 Meg ............................................ Liza ·Burnett '96 Babe .............................. Gabrielle Molyneaux '96 Barnett ............................. .Jamie Dereshinsky '99 The setting of the play is the kitchen ofthe McGrath sister's house in Hazelhurst, Mississippi. The time is the present. Tickets are $5 with Union ID and $7 for the general public. Contact the Box office at 388-6545. Note: March 9 performance is SOLD OUT. AUDITIONS FOR NOISES OFF BY MICHAEL FRA YN TUESDAY,MARCH12 AND WEDNESDAY, MARCH lJ 7:00 .. 11:00 PM YULMANTHEATER · Please bring a minute of memorized material from any source. Be prepared to read frorrz the script which is on reserve in the li~ brary. Sign up for a specific time in the lobby of the theater. Director Nick Mangano is formerly associate artistic director of The American Conservatory Theatre in San Francisco and cur- rently director of ' 1 Grapes of Wrath,; now playing at the Capitol Repertory Company 'in Albany~ 1996 ~ Aliens .Sighted in Florida! Spend Spring Break in Another Dimension Courtesy of Walt Disney World Co. An alien encounter with a five~scream climax, a 55-mph water-slide plummet, and a 13-story fall in a shaky hotel elevator ate just some of the newest Walt Disney World thrills awaiting college students during · Disney Break '96.. And special student discounts add to the adventure. February 11-April 1 6, students can spend all day at any one Disney . theme park for $26 ($:11 off regtdar admission), thenplay all night free on Pleasure Island-· home of Planet Hollywood-·. with a w.ild street · party, sevenhotnightclubs,.plusconfetti andfireworksatmidnight. To • receive the total savings of more than $27 (pleasure island regular ad- • mission is.$16~95),studentsmust present valid college ID card when · purchasing the special ticket. Student thrills include: - ExtraTERRORestrial Alien Encounter at the Magic Kingdom, a sensory thriller from Disney and filmmaker George Lucas featuring a mysterious corporation from adistant planet attempting the teleportation of a living being through interplanetary space. The experiment goes awry with tenicying results. -SummitPiummet,.theworld'stallest,fastest(55-mph)free-fallspeed · slide awaits at Blizzard Beach, a water park themed to a Northern ski resort, complete with snow-capped mountains in themidstofatropical lagoon. Other Blizzard Beach highlights include water-slide runs, whitewa~er rafting, flumes and an inner-tube run. ... The Twilight Zone Tower and Terror at Disney-MOM Studios, where visitors venture into anotherdimension before taking a \faster-than-free- fall\ plunge from the 13th floor down an elevator shaft .. .into the Twilight Zone. -Honey, I Shrunk the Audience at Epcot, a 3-D misadventure pre- . sented by Kodak that will leave students screaming-and shrinking- · in their seats! For additional guest infonnation about Walt Disney World Resort, call(407) 824-4321. and listen to ... WRUC the first station in the nation. I ~ ;. :': ., '· ' '· \ ·: t i

\ ·; r i '·~ I ' i, :~. . ' ' <flnucnr.hi.eusis March 7, 1996 Th,e Innards of E-Mail Alex Beckers Contributing Writer All students at Union College have free access to one of the most modem, convenient,. and powerful forms of communica- tion available~ electronic mail. Either in the dorms through ResNet, at one of the many computer labs, from off-cam- pus w:ith a modem, or in the College Center, a student can quickly s~nd off a message to a friend or to a family member. As more and more people world-wide g:tin access to the Internet, either through a pay service such as America On- Line or some other method, it becomes easier and easier to contact .anyone you want,. any- where on Earth. Internet e-mail is implemented through a protocol called SMTP - Simple Ma;il Transfer Proto- col. It was first published in a Request for Comments, or \RFC\, by Jonathan Postel in 1982, in the early days of the Internet's existence. Any ma- chine on the Internet that will be used for the transfer of mail must implement SMTP in some way. On most UNIX machines, such as Unvax, VirtualU's Vir- tual, or the CS Department's :rardis, the program that imple- ments SMTP is called \sendmail\. The programs that . ,, · ·students use to read and com- pose mail, such as elm or pine, simply interface with. sendmail and never actually contact an- other machine. The method by which the mail is actually traiiSJnitted from machine to machine is very similar to ~ny other tneans af communications over the Internet, for example the Do- main~Name request ex:plained in \The World~Wide-\Veb: How Does it Work?\ in a. previous issue ofConcordiensis. The mail program, be it sendtnail or its equivalent on arty <>th-er type of machine, l.ooks up the IP ad- dress of the target machine, using DNS resolution, and sends the message,. as a flattext file, on its way. It's possible, whenread~ng an e-mail message, to :find out what machines lay between the sender and the .recipient, as well as many other details. AH the information is in the message \header\, the first several lines that most people sitnpJy ignore. The first line, forthose students on ResNet and using a program such as Eudora, is the POP3- Recpt: line, created by the Point of Presence servers mnning on Unva~, Gar. or Virtual, depend- ing on which machine the reader is using for his or her mail con- nection. The next line, the Re- turn-Path, is the sender's ad- dress - or, sometimes, the ad- dress that the sender wants the reply to go to. It's quite pos- sible to send a message and give it a Return-Path so that the re- ply goes somewhere else alto- gether. The next several lines, the Received: lines, are a way of tracing the message over the Internet to see where it went. If a reader has cause to suspect an e-mail ta be a forgery, sim- ply compare the From: line to the Received: lines. If the ma- chine named in the From: line is never mentioned in the Re- ceived: lines, it's likely a forg- ery. A good example of a forged e-mail message can be found at ftp://pariah.loa.com/ files/textlmisclbadforge. txt. In this example, the From: line claims that the message came from the National Security Agency, nsa.gov. The Re- ceived: lines, however, show that it was sent manually from a machine at the University of Rhode Island, uri.edu, to the ElectronicFrontier Foundation's computer, eff.org. One of the most interesting lines in an e-mail message is the TWO-DRUGTREATJ\1ENTIS EFFECTIVE AGAINST RECURRENT EYE INFECT! ONS IN AIDS PATIENTS A combination of two antivi- ral drugs is more effective than . either drug alone for controlling recurrences of blinding eye in- fections common in people with AlDS, according to new clini- cal trial results from a federally .. sponsored study. combination treatment was as- available for long-term suppres- sociatedwith the least reduction sive therapy. While the two in the field of visi<>n; but visual drugs work equally wel'l for a acuity was preserved equally first episode of CMV retinitis, well in all drug regimens tested. nearly all patients suffer a re- However. researchers cau- lapse of the retinitis at some tioned that the two-<irllg therapy point. With each relapse, more takes longer, becallse each drug retinal cells are destroyed and has ta be administered sepa- more vision is lost. In January's Archives of Ophthalmology, researchers re- port that daily intravenous ad- ministration of both foscamet and ganciclovir is a more effec- tive way to treat repeat episodes of cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis than treatment with et- ther drug alone. \This finding advances the treatment of a chronic, destruc- tive eye infection that causes blindness if it is not controlled;'' said Carl Kupfer, M.D., direc- tor of the National Eye Institute (NEI). The NEI, part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), sponsored tne· ¢MV RetinitisRetreatmetit :Trial. Ad- - .. -.-·\ ·.~~~\. ditional~ NIH stipporFwas pro- vided by the National Center for ·Research Resources and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. For patients who rece·ived both drugs, the CMV retinitis was controlled for about four months on average. Among those treated with either foscamet or ganciclovir alone, the' eye infection recurred in one to t~o months on average. The rately. In a4dition~ the side ef- \Combination therapy was fects associated with two-drug much better than treatment with therapy may be m·ore difficult either foscarnet or ganciclovir to tolerate than those with one alone in controlling the retinitis drug alone. Also, because two progression,\ said study chair- drugs are required, the1reatment man Douglas A. Jabs, M.D., is more expensive than it would of The Johns Hopkins Univer- be if op)y one drug was used. sity and Hospital. \However CMV retinitis is an infection combination therapy was more of the retina, the I igflt-sensing inconvenient, .required two in- tissue that lines the back of the fusions, and will be more ex- eye. The virus tlut causes it pensive. But for those patients can infect the eye, colon, lung, who have. suffered a relapse of and other organs of\ people with their retinitis and can tolerate AIDS or other diseases that re- combinat1on ~therapy, its im- 1 S';ll! in,, weake~ed i1J1~t;Ine sys-. . p~oved control of the retinitis terns. Accordm:g.to some stud- offers distinct advantages.\ ies~, up to 40\~telit gf,peopJe ·~ · -T,he :.Cl\.tV Retinitis wtth · Al~S .,lfevei()J) CMV · ·Retreatm~~t Tfial involved 279 retinitis, the most common patientswhohadalreadyhadthe cause of vision l().ss from the eye infettioq. and had been disease. treated Wttb etther foscarnet or ,·.(; c.~~re~~Iy·~. Cl\4V~ r,etiniti.s is ganciclov~r, b~t e:ipeti·enced- a typically· treated 'Wtth twtce- relapse anq. needed further treat- daily intravenous infusion of ei• ment. Th¢y were randamly as- ther foscametor ganciclovir for signed t'o foscarnet alone, two weeks, followed by daily ganciclovir alone, or both drugs. infusions which are usually con- The trial was part of an on- tinued for the rest of the going clinical research project patient's life. There als<> is an called Studies of the Ocular oral form of ganciclovir that is Complications of AIDS. Message-Id, a unique identifier assigned by the sending machine to every piec.e of mail it pro• cesses. The Message-ld can be used to identify the message if necessary, for example, if one wanted to contact the Postmas- ter of a machine that was being used to send fake e-mail. Anyane who has used e-maj) for any length of time has likely received mail from \Mailer-Daemon\, complaining about an error or an invalid ad- dress. The Mailer-Daemon is simply a convenient name tor the program assigned the task of monitoring mail handling. A \daemon\ is simply a program designed to run invisibly, in the \background\ of a computer. If you receive a message from one, read the details ofthe mes- sage it sends you. You'll prob- ably be able to figure out what went wrong - often it's some- June 2-July 27, 1996 thing as simple as a misspelled name. If you really need help, try sending a question to the Postmaster of the machine that sent the error message, Postmaster@<machine name>. Whil.e Internet mail is extremely powerful and conve- nient, it can easily be used for the wrong purposes, like any other tooL Sending mail to someone who doesn't want it can be considered harassment, and the penalties, under the re- cently passed Communications Decency Act, are harsh. Chain letters, multiple-sent jokes and ascii-art can bog down some systems. As in everything else on the Internet, use your best judgment- don't abuse the sys- tem. For more information on SMTP, read RFC 821, available at ftp://ds.internic.net/rfc/ rfc821.txt Ithaca, New York • You're a liberal arts major. • You enjoy your field of study. You're good at it. • Now build on your talents and accomplishments! Want to explore the possibility of a career in international business? The Cornell University Summer Program in International Business will provide an under- standing of the global economy and the skills needed to succeed in the business world. Business leaders stress the importance of the abilities and perspedives developed by a liberal arts education in today's global business environment. These inctl-tde the ability to reason critically and to_ solve problems; research and communication . skills; and the knawledge and appreciation of.other cultures. To these abifitie's, the Cornell Univ6rsity Suin~r,Program in International Business will , add and certify a coherent body · dfknowledge and'skills directly · related to international ·economic activity. All students in the Summer Program in International Business take the following four courses. (There are no course prerequi- sites.) Participants who successfully complete the program will receive twelve credits and a formal Co.r_nell University certificate. • Government 331 The Political Environ- ment of International Business • Human Resources 468 Organization '-;-\ and Human Resources Management Simulation • Economics 206 Economics in lnterna- tiona! Perspective • Economics 1 05 Introduction to Finan- cial and Management Accounting School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions B20 Day Hall, Ithaca; NY 14853~2801 Telephone: 607 255-7259 E-mail: sp®sce.cornell.edu Web site: http://www.sce.cornell.edu/CUSS/

, ~ ,, . ~ .I '' ' 1 ~ i l '. \ ·~ '' ~/ Features After a 2 week hiatus Planet C has returned. Concerned About Apathy? by Conor McKenzie Staff Writer This Friday, I followed the same schedule as usual: get up, have a coffee, go to genetics, have a coffee, go to history, walk out ofthe building (on way to get another coffee), say hi to John Carbone. It seems that our paths cross everyday as I head out of the building, and he heads in. This week, in addition to his usual \What's up Conor-Dog?\ (don't ask where the dog came from, it's strictly a Carboneism), he continues, \Have you seen the p~sters all over school reading 'Concerned about Ap'lthy?' Makes a Jot of sense ... just a slight oxymoron [laughing].\ Sweet Beautiful inspiration! I thanked Carbone, and pro- ceeded on my daily routine with the new confidence that I now knew what to write about this week. So, Union, are you \Con- cerned about Apathy\ as the poster that advertised a speaker of some sort asked. Do you lack general concern? In that case, I wouldn't imagine that many people attended. Since the con- sensus seems to be that the en- tire campus is apathetic, I wouldn't imagine that many students showed concern over their apathy. Being a freshman, I wouldn't normally be able to draw such a sweeping conclusion about a school. I heard the word used quite a bit in reference to Union students, but I really didn't have enough evidence to classify the whole school as \apathetic.\ Fortunately though, I didn't have to form my own opinion on the subject. A couple of weeks ago, I picked up a copy of our newspaper. A huge head- line at the top of the page read, \Why are You Apathetic?\ I wasn't really sure, but since the question asked why I was apa- thetic, I determined that it must be an accepted fact that Union students are apathetic. I, being a Union student, and Union stu.,. dents being apathetic, I didn't feel the need to read further and Lord of the Flies: who, me? by Peter Sorensen Features Editor The boy tall with blond hair stood looking out across the la- goon, waiting for the others to arrive. The sun and hot sand caused him to shift his feet fre- quently, and it looked like he was dancing. While he danced, he tapped a keg. Cool froth sprayed out on his body and on the sand, where it sizzled. He did a handstand where froth cooled sand and let golden yel- low liquid flow into his mouth. It was delicious. The others arrived. The tall boy told them, \tell the young'uns to be dressed when the will kill a pig and let the blood flow out.\ There was a general chorus of agreement. The sun went down, and they all sat around a large fire; the keg sat in a tidal pool where it kept cool. Spirits pulsed and gathered and grew, and between sips and trips to the tidal pool they shouted and leapt about. The fire cast odd shadows on the sea. The young'uns were ner- vous, their spears clutched in sweaty palms. None of them really wanted to see pig blood. Some just wanted to be in bed. They were not permitted to spe~~· Abruptly one of the oth- ers stood up and said, \hey- why are we going to kill a pig when we could just call Howl- moved. The dissident had made a few too many trips to the tidal pool. Tension rippled through the otherwise tranquil lagoon ... In an abstract sense, give or take a little, Union is our lagoon. It is an isolated haven from the outside world, from restriction and control...but not froru our- selves. Gathered around the fire, the dinner table, the bar ot the Nott, the collective .we are free to mold, or even to create our own society to our liking. We are both the young'uns and the elders. But that is as far as. I dare to compare. You may be<wondering what this could possibly have to do with killing pigs.· As a vegetar.: ian, I myself sometimes won- der. The truth of the matter is C!Iuncnrbi.ensis March 7 16 inv(lstigate the issue-who put up a poster unless they felt cares? that ap~thetic students were So, for the next couple of now spontaneously becomi:ng weeks, whenever J found my- -concerned about their apathy. self in a conversation about Union students I found I could throw in apathetic, and aU of a sudden I would be the hit of the party. I don't know why an:v.- one would ever try to be cre- ative, cliches like 'apathy' are re- ally great. \I don't care, I'in apathetic,\ was always guaran- teed to .get a few laughs. Say- ing the word \apathy\ in a con- versation garners a response al- most as reassuring as someone who yells \Free Beer!\ on a weekend. The life of an apathetic stu- dent is grand. I quit all the clubs that I used to belong to, I stopped working out, and I even reserved class attendance strictly for Wednesdays and tests. Then one day I wake up, and suddenly, my life-style is chat,.. lenged. I read the posters all over campus, \Concerned about Apathy?\ they ask me. I wasn't sure how, but someone has chal- lenged the seemingly unchallengeable. With the defi- nition of apathy meaning lack of general contem, I felt rela- tively sure that I would never have to be concerned with any- thing, let alone apathy itself. Being the impressionable fresh- man that I am, I wondered if apathy wasn't quite so hip any- more. After all, they wouldn't that dietary preference has little to do with it. Rather, the pig- hunt can be viewed as a beauti- ful (though I admit, tasteless) metaphor of an obscured and much transformed tradition: the rite of passage, the trial, the pre- requisite for entrance into soci- ety. But what is that trial for us? Where is the passage? I admit that l'm not really sure, but I doubt it could possibly be as generalized as the pig; like picking a major, we all must choose our own path. That said, it scares me that all I really have to do for the next three years is complete my rite of passage and be forcibly ejected into society. Why college, why oh why now? It is all so unclear, each day so muddled and busy I barely take the time to think about what exactly ·I am doing and why. The tendency to mimick, too copy and coast is hard to fight, because we are not Being the trend-foHowing freshman that I am, I quickly s·tarted attending class again, working out,. and I evenrejoined the clubs I quit-hence, the ex- i~tence of this article. Now that I was no longer apa- thetic, I began to question whether today's college student is as apathetic as everyone says. On the surface it wauld seem that we are, compared the stu. dentsofthe 60's. However, stu- dents in the 60's had a war to protest, a civil rights movement to advance, and the largest con~ oert in history to attend. The times are diffeFent, activ- ism was the :r:e.sponse of the 60's. We can't expect the same response to situations which are obviously different 30 years later. Now we are faced with small wars, more localized, in- direct civil rights abuses, and commercialized concerts like Lollapalooza. Woah! my article was taking a serious turn for a second there, Sorry for drifting from the real point which is the hilarity in the fact that someone would put Up a poster reading \Concerned about Apathy?\ Seriously good oxymoron that ranks right up there with Military Intelligence, Civil War, or Cool Republican. Keep putting the posters up, and I'll keep laughing~ isolated from ourselves. Here is our society as we created it, as it exists and as we live in it. And here I sit, sweaty-palmed and clutching my spear, trying to break free and find the unique trial that fits me. In a theoretical sense, our rite of passage is much more diffi- cult than a pig-hunt. The plans are not made, the goal is not clear; here in our lagoon, but we don't necessarily know which path leads to the moun- tain top. The specific route var- ies as the person. Me,J'd rather just kill the damn pig. Lazy, lazy I am. I try to fig- ure it out, I try to pick my path and walk it. I try to kill the pig, but I just can't seem to find it! Then I remember the words of the omniscient Yoda: \do or do not, Jedi-knight ... there is no try.\ I need a solution. Well, actually, I think I have one. I think I'll do it. ... see you all next fall. ,J '

t /, ',. What's in a Handshake? by Chris Richards Living Editor The singular reason Bob Dole will never become president of this country is due to the fact that he cannot shake with his right hand. It sits immobilized. He has to turn around and use his non-right side.. The side that ignores justice and truth. Is that too far? Yes. But can't it still be tru¢? This position may easily be seen as shallow and weak, and allow me to add judgemental. It may sound and smell like excrement; but if we are to be- lieve in the symbolic nature of our language, then aren't there ramifications for not being able to use what is right? It is cus- tom to shake. with the right hand. How can someone run against the grain of an estab- lished principle and hope for the nation's highest office?.! Is it possible? I wish this to be only an observation, and not a personal attack, however ab- surd that seems. If Senator Dole ever read this, which he won't, would a tear come to his eye? Would he say, \Yes my son, you are so right.\ If I knew the man, I would never be able to write this. In addition to Dole running contrary to an established, symbolic gesture, equaUy dev- astating are the limitations placed .upon his oratorical skills. They are severely challenged since he ·cannot place emphasis upon his words with his hands. He can't lift up the podium and slam it on the ground in order to drive his point home. Speaking from be- hind the podium with reserve, he has trouble making sharp into- nations and gestures. Since his body language is limited, the lit- eral language he emits is not nearly as persuasive. He cannot dramatically lean over the po- dium with elbows outstretched and peer into the eyes of the citi- zens he is trying to make a pas- sionate connection with. Thus his speeches have a strikingly cold, standoffish representation which does not draw his observ- ers in. However, Bob Dole does speak with enthusiasm and confidence, although his eloquence and ca- dence is thrown off. Without his arms he must drive his point across by raising his voice. In raising his voice, he portrays an overall impression of anger. \I say we send BILL CLINTON BACK TO LITTLE ROCK!!!\ Of course this can be a very skinny argument. Sometimes I think this is excrement, while at other times it clearly seems like the sole reason. So \enough or too much!\ ~A Hawk in Throw o f Nature c continued from last week ... ) byDaveEd~r Living Editor I wonder what it would look like tf I could paint the sky with my fly rod andline. A hawk landed in a tree above him. Hawk looked up at his name- sake and smiled. He imagined that the hawk was the same spirit he had seen in a seal two years ago. He then wrote: A Hawk delight,\' at the sights it see.'i. . Riding the currents of wind; Speaking in silence ithowl.'i I'm free. The world reflected iil il.~· eye . .,·. All the oceans and the ,fhore.'i. Like the wind it rides, The hawk lives to explore. The Seal, the seraph of the .vea, IIi• h(mre is where it lies. It never: questions what it means w he. Itnet'er questionj· the changing tide.\~ Floating on it.s· hack ethereally, The .Yea/ bathe.'i in the warhl .'iun. It looks toward land question- ingly, Wondering when we will be done Hawk slmt his book, looked up to see the hawk, but it was gone. \My Guardian Angel has gone home and so shall I,\ remarked Hawk as he stood up. He walked home all the while wondering if Hawks are more spiritual than hu- mans. Hawk knew that they are, and suspected that a hawk is the highest level of spiritual beings. Hawk appeared to be gliding through the woods ob- served the squirrels. His bare feet hardly made a sound as he walke~ and some might have thought that his feet did not touch the ground. Hawk noticed a blueberry bush and stopped to pick some of the berries. As he was bending down, he looked up and saw the squir- rels, which had been watching him, scurry awayin fear. Then the hawk that he had seen earlier came crash- ing through the trees above and flew right into Hawks' face. The bird js. talons wrapped around Hawks face. Unconscious, Hawk fell back onto the ground. To all of''U\ The sun, the moon, the stars, in June The earth, re-birth, converge, too soon Through moods, be goos, relax, rejuve Don't trip, be careful, de cautious, not fearful Mailce, is falace, please refrain, oh! Alice Remember, your purpose, through your trials, have no denials Forget, the sorrows, look foward, to the morrows Have fun, don't run, take care, don't fall Rise up, from low's, Raise your cup, with little woe's Have compassion, for her, don't break it, remake it To seekers, remember, seek it, you'll find it Chem, Bio, Econ, Polisci, Physics, However, whatever, work hard, forever. r--------_.____,._,__Fi DOI-C E coFreehouse ~ go\\er-~ * ' I 0 * * areaiptQCe =to 6\:\{d~ -K \4'2. ~~ stl~ ~1~2~ ~&it> il\16cm~ flt. 211 '\\\'\ st. \0% cllscoun\, 'Wi\\l Union U>. .....

'' '' '' I, I t i i '' Final Schedule MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996-9:30AM-ll:30AM AAH\'034*01 BIO*O l6*0J Bl0*024*0·1 BIO\' 154*01 BIO*l60*01 CER '~< 128*0'1 EC0*039*01 EER*048*01 EGL\'OSJ*Ol ESC*030\'0I GEO*OSI*OI GER*OIO*Ol GER*I20*01 GER* 121*01 GRK*Oli*OI GRK*IJI*Ol LA T* 130N*O I MER*041*01 MTII*058*02 MTII*I 00*0 I PIIY*OI7*01 PIIY*O 17*02 PIIY\'OI7 A \'0 I PIIY*048\'0 I PSC*058\'01 PSY*062*01 I. 9th Century Euro Paint/Sculpt•Eyerman, C. Biology I -Olberg, R. Genetics -Boyer/Horton Developmental Biology -Boyer, B. Histology & Organolog- Roth, W. Structural Analysis- Mati, M. Public Finance -McCarty, T. Semiconductor Devices & Circts -Hassib, Literature of the Renaissance cSteveoson, R. Mechanics of Deformable Solids- Bucinell, R. Carbonate Sedimentology- Garver, J. I. Basic German !-Warde, A Intermediate German 1- Hamm-Ehsani, K Intermediate German 2 -Hamm-Ehsani, K Principles of Greek 2 -Mace, S. Herodotus & Thucydides- Loomis, W. Catullus & Horace -Sorum, C. Engineering Design 2 -Rivefoa, M. Appls of Math to Economics I -Fairchild, W. Orthogonal Functions -Bick, T General Physics I -Jones, C. General Physics I -Maleki, S. General Physics I -Jones, C. Intelligent Life in Universe -Schick, K. International Law -Board, J. Practicu111 in !Iuman Relations I -Dowling, T. · ARTS2l5 COLC BAIL207 NWSE 114 BAIL 104 BUTR 109 SSCJOJ4 E. STZHI06 HUMNIIO NWSE21.0 BUTR201 HUMN 115 SSCII05 SSCJI05 HUMN 113 HUMN 119 DEANSCONF NWSE222 BAIL 106 BAIL 102, NWSE 11.2 NWSE201A NWSE304 NWSE 114 SSCIII2 BAIL312 MONDA V, MARCH 18, 1996-1 :30PM-3:30PM AMU*020*01 AMU*044*01 OJO\'ISO*o-1 ECO*OI2*02 E\0*012\'03 ' ESC\'069•o I GEO*O II •o.J GER* 135\'01 GER*l49\'01 GMI\'I50*01 IIST*0(l6*0 I MTII\'I40•0! MTFI*OJ<J>~>OJ MTII*030\'01 PilL *012\'0 I PIIL*l59*01 PSC* 084 *O I RUS*OII*OI SOC*124*01 SPN\'OJJ+ol Music History & Literature !-Wilson, H. A Jayz Theory & I mpro -Olsen, T. lliochemistry-Salvo, J.L. Introduction to Economics -Schmidt, S.J Introduction to Economics -Kwok, C. Engineering Economics -Anderson, A.M. The Earth & Life thn1 Time -Rodbell, D. Women in Gcrm~m Literature- Kellenter, S. Deutsche Schriftstellerinnen -Kellenter, S. Orgrutizational Theory -Lehrman, S. East Asi~ut Civ - Part II -Madancy, J. Linear Algebra -Sauerberg,J Linear Algebra!Comp Vtu/Engrs\Barbanel J. Ordinary Dif'fllrential Equation ~Fairchild, W. llistory Western .Philosophy 2 -Ludwig, J. Post Modernism -Patdk, L Political Sociology -Weiner, T. Basic Russiru1 2 -Jordan, B. Politicul Sociology -Weiner, T. Basic Sp;mish 2 -Garcia, W. ARTS215 ARTS313 BAIL 106 SSCI 012 SSCI 103 NWSE 114 BUTR201 HUMN 119 HUMN 119 IIUMN019 SSCI 014 BAIL 102 BAIL201 BAIL207 HUMN 114 ljUMN 213 SSCIIIO IIUMNII3 SSCIIIO HUMN 117 TlJESDA Y, MAI~CIII9, 1996- 9:30AM-ll:30AM mo•17o*ot GE0\'025\'01 II ST*072 \'0 I IIST\'046\'0 I HST\I2'l\'O I .IPN*I21\'01 JPN* 1.11 \'OJ LAT\'OII*OI MER\'OJ.1*01 MTII \'O 10\'0 I MTII*OI2'\01 MTtl•o 12\'02 MTII*OI2\'0J MTII*OI2'\04 MTII*OI5\'01 MTII*O 15*02 MTII*OI5\'lH MTII\'02R\'OI MTI I* 124\'01 PII Y*020*0 I PSY*050*01 R!JS\'I2l\'OI SPN*I.U*OI General Endocrinology -Butterstein, G Tectonics -Gmvcr, J. I Early Jewish llistmy- Berk, Stuart Englrulll. 160J-I714-IIalliday, African-American Thought -Miller. Intermediate Japanese 2· Klum. Y. Advrutced lnterm Japanese II- Khan. Principles of Latin 2- Scullion. J. S Fluid Mechanics -Shmtebrook, J. Calculus I -Taylor, A Calculus 2 -Primlle. A. Calculus 2 -Muckenfuss. J Calculus 2 -Reynolds, P. Calculus 2 -Muckcnlhss. J Calculus J -Rosenthal. K. Calculus J -Rosenthal, K. Calculus J -Snucrbcrg. J. Probability -Barbmtel, J Geometry -Zimmermmm, K. General Physics 4 cKftosropour. R. Eductttional Psychology -Cmnpito, J. Intermediate Russian 2 -Jordmt. B. Spanish Peninsuhtr Lit 2 -Moyruto. P. BAIL207 BUTR201 S SSCI 104 P SSCI .JJ2 AT SSC'IIOJ IIUMN 213 YHUMN21 llllMN 116 NWSE222 BAIL 100 BAIL 104 BAIL201 BAIL 106 BAIL201 BUTR 109 BUTR 109 NWSEI12 NWSE 114 BAIL 102 NWSE328 BAIL312 IIUMN 119 HUMN 110 Tli~~SDAY,MARCH 19, l996 ... t:30PM-3:30PM ANT\'OIO\'OI CIIM\'032\'01 C'IIM*032*02 EC0*06~>~<o I ESC*Oil*OI ESC*OLl*OI GER\'Oil\'OI IIST*06.l \'O I liST* 121*01 MTII*099\'01 PIIY\'052*0 I PSC'*OI2*0 I SPN*I20\'01 SPN*! 20\'0.l lntro to Cul·tuml Anthrpology-Leavitt. S. Orgmtic C'hcmist•y 2-Hult L. Organic Chemistry 2 -Adrian. J. Non Pr(1lits & Cuopcrativcs -Fried. ll Engineering Graphics-M;tfi. M lligh-Levcl Language Programing-Tcresco, J. Basic Gcnmm2 -Warde. A. llistory ofC'aribbc;u1/C'ent Amcr- Meade. T Anter Constitutional/Legal Hlst -Jonas, M. lntro to Logic&. Set Tiu:ory -Niefield, S. lntermed Classical Mechanics -Reich. G. lntro International Politic -Giiman, T. 1 ntermediate Sp:Ulish. I -Osuna., M. Intermediate Spru1ish I -Merediz. E. SSCI112 BUTR204 BUTR204 SSCI 010 BtJTR300 STZH 106 HUMN I 10 SSCl012 BAIL 201 ALUI\1307 NWSE 112 SSCI104 HUMNI15 HUMNOICJ WEDNESDAY, !\'lARCH 20, 1996- 9:30AM- l 1:30AM Bl0*026*01 BIO*I36•0I CER*022•ot C'IIM*IIR*OI The Cell- Smith/Salvo BAIL 207 Cell Regulation Mechanistns -Drutowski. B. Civil Engr Materinls- Ghnly, A. lnorgrutic Chemistry 2 -Lou. K. NWSEII6 BUTR 109 STZH 106 CLS*02l*Ol CLS*OliN\'OI ECO*l44*0l HST*OJ3*0l HST*035*0l HST*035*02 HST*036*01 MER *022 \'O'I MTH*070*01 MTH*136*01 PHL*132*01 PSC*039\'01 PSC*068\'0I PSY+020*02 PSY\'030\'01 PSY*038*01 History of Greece -Loomis, W. Survey of Ancient Epic -Mace, S. International Economics -Motahar, E. History ofUS to Civil War- Wells, R. History of Europe l ~Halliday, P. History of Europe 1 -Hansen, E. History of Europe 2 -Berk, S. Materials Sciem;e&Engineemg -Milillo, F Fractals -Frame, M. Real Variable Theory l -Taylor, A. Modem Philosophy thru Leiboiz -Ludwig, J. Feminists Theorize the Politcal- Meyers, P.A Electoral Politics -Brown, C. Statistical Methods/Psychology -Deaono; K. Personality-l'lalpern, £.,. Developmental Psychology -Stanhope, L. HUMNH5 HUMNII2 HUMNIIO SSCil04 SSCll03 .I{UMN 114 HUMN 117 NWSE210 BAIL 104 BAIL 102 HUMNII9 SSCI llO SSCII.I2 BAlL~OO BAIL20J BAIL312 WEDNESDAY, MARCH20, 1996 ~ l:30PM-3~30PM BI0*018*01 CER\'Ol6*01 CER*l32*01 CHM\'040*01 ECO\'OJI*Ol EER,>~< 144*01 EGL*037B*OJ FRN*I21 *01 JPN*OJ 1*01 PHL*038*0·1 PHY\'OI8\'01 PHY\'OI8\'02 PHY\'OI8*03 PHY*Ol8*04 PSC*OI2N*OI PSC*088N\'O I · PSY'\025\'01 SPN\'OII*02 SPN\'I21 \'02 SPN\' 149N\'Ol Biology 2 -Tobiessen, P. CE Computer Applications -Jewell, Reinforced Concrete Design -Thabet, W. Quantitative Chemistry -Werner, T. Microeconoinic Analysis-Yaisawamg, S. Communication Systems I -Hassib, E. African-American Women Writers -Shour, N. Intermediate French 2 -Laparra, C. Basi.cJapanese 2•Khan, Y. Eastern Philosophy- Patrik, L. General Physics 2 -Anderson, A. General Physics 2 -Rodriguez, G. General Physics 2 -Schick, K .. General Physics 2 -Rodriguez, G. Intro International Politics- Abootalebi, A. Politics of Middle East-Abootalebi, A. lntro to Experimental Pych -Bums, D. J. Basic Spanish 2 -Garcia, W. Intermediate Spanish 2 -Martinez, V. Spanish Romanticism/Realism •Moyano, P. SSCIOI6 T,BUTR,I09 NWSE 116 NWSE201A SSCI 104 NWSE222 HUMN 114 HUMNI<tZ sscro1o HUMN 117 NWSE300 NW:SE 116 NWSE 1~4 NWSEl12 SSCIOI4 SSCI 103 BAiLJOO HUMNll6 HUMN Il5 HUMN 110 THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 1996~9:30AM-tl:30AM AAH\'026>~>0I AAH\'OJO\'OI ANT*Oli*OI ATH*OJO*OI CER*I51*01 CHM*OIO*OI CHM*OI0*02 CHM\'OI2*01 CHM*012\'02 CHM*OI2\'0J CHM\'ISO*OI CSC*038*01 ECO\'OJJ*OI EER*I43*0l ESC*OI5*01 HST\'049\'0 I MLT*Ol7*01 PHL\'OI4*01 PSY\'020\'01 PSY\'057*01 · lntro to Hst of Architectur:e•Matthew, L. Renaissance Art -Matthew, L Comparing Cultures thni Film -Leavitt, S. Movement for Actors -Finlay, W. Hydraulics -Jewell. T. Fundamental Chemistry l -Weick, C. Fundamental Chemistry I -Fox, K. Fundamental Chemistry 2 -Scaife, C. Fundamental Chemistry 2 -Carroll, M. Fundamental Chemistry 2 -Scaife, C. Physical Chemistry I -Hayes, D. Intra to Computer Science -Hemmendinger,D Public Policy & Amer Industry -Klein, D. Electromagnetic Engineering I -Chang, Y. Numerical Methods & C Language -Ain1stead, L. Europe Between Two Wurs -Hansen. E. An East Asian Sampler -Khan, Y. Introduction to Ethics -Baker, R. Statistical Methods/Psychology -Greenberg, S. Applied Cognitive Psychology -Bums, D. J. ARTS 215 ARTS215 SSCIOI2 YULM BUTR 109 BUTR204 BUTR204 BUTR204 BUTR204 BUTR204 NWSE i 16 BUTR300 SSCI 104 NWSE201A NWSE I I4 SSCiil2 HUMN 116 HUMN 114 BAILlOO 13AIL20I THllRSDA Y, 1\tiARCH 21, 1996-1 :30P.M-3:30PM ANPOBO\'OI CHN*Oll \'O'l EGL *022N*O I FRN\'Oli\'OI GEO\'Ol4*0l MTH\'OI7\'01 PHY*042*01 PSY*OlO*Ol PSY\'O I ON\'O+ PSY\024*01 soc+o 1 o*oz , SOC*024*0 I · SPN\I21*01 Native Americans- Schaefer. J. G. Basic Chinese 2 -Xie. Y. Major Americru1 Authors- Slade, L. Basic French 2 -Laparra, C. Our Changing Planet •Locke. S. Calculus IV:lntegrnl Vector-Frame, M. Great Ideas of Modem Physics- Reich, G. lntro to Psychology -Stanhope. L. Intro to Psychology -Halpern. L. Social Psychology-DeBono. K. Intro to Sociology-Cotter. D. Social Psychology-DeBono, K. Intermediate Spanish 2-Martinez. V. SSCI 112 HUMN I 19 HUMNliO HUMN 116 BUTR201 BAIL 104 NWSE I I2 BAIL312 BAIL207 BAIL20l SSCII03 BAIL201 HUMN117 FRIDAY, !\-lARCH 22, 1996- 9:30AM-It :30AM AAH*OI2*01 CSC\'Oli*OI CSC*014\'01 EC0•0!2*01 EGL*020•ot EGL*035\'01 GEO\'OIS\'OI PSC'\OI IN*02 SPN\'OIO\'OI Intro to Art History- Part 2-Eyerman. C. Programinmg for the Sciences·Almstead. L. Information Processing-Macherone. a. Introduction to Econoniics-Fried. H. Major English Authors 2-Frazier, A. Literature of Holocausc-Hein~gg, P. Geology of National Pnrks·Sha\V. G. Intro to American Politics•Welner, T. Basic Spanish !-Osuna; M. ARTS215 NWSE210 NWSE 114 SSCI112 HUMN 112 HUMN I 15 BUTR201 SSCI 014 HlJMN 117 FRIDAY, 1\1ARCH 22, 1996 -l:30Pi\1-3:30PM A('('•010\'01 ATH\OI2*01 EC0•042\'01 ECO\'I41N\'OI EER\'041\'01 GE0\'020\'0i HST*014*01 soc•tsJ\'oi Survey of AccQunting•Lewis, W. Beginning Acting-R~se, L Jl.lacroeconomic Theory & Polity-Motahar. E. Monetary Economics.Kwok, C. Electric Circuits-Gajjar., J. MineralogyHollocher. K. Hislorv of US Since Civil War-FetTer, A. Sociol~gy of the Handicapped-Weiner, T. HUMNOJ4 YULM SSCI014 STZHI06 NWSE112 · BUTR20l SSC1112 SSCI 105

I .:1 ' ., ... Sports by Greg Kalish Staff Writer The New York Jets will never be good. This past week's sign- ing ofNeil O'Donnell only served to reaffirm this. r fthere was ever a quarterback in the history of the National Football League who was a role player on a good· team, it wasNeil O'Do.nnell this past sea- son with the Pittsburgh Steel~rs. His job was simply not to lose games, although that is exactly what he did in the Super Bowl. Don't get me wrong. 0 'Donnell is a good quarterback, pr~bably un above-average quarterback in this league; but he is no star. Nor is he a young newcomer with potential. And he certainly is not deserving ofa$7 million signing bonus and a$25 million deal. It is often difficultto figure out the Jets. Last summer. they fired _their young and energetic .head coach, Pete Carroll, after he had lost the last seven games of the season. Owner Leon Hess cited his old age and his desiretosee a winner before he checks out as thereason for what many thought was a very hasty move. So what does he do? lie hires a guy who lost the last nine games ofhis.sca- son. In the last two seasons now with the Jets and the Eagles, Rich Kotite. the man who has been placed in charge of rebuilding the Jets. is 3-23 as a head coach. Strange Jet maneuvers. are not reserved for coaches alone. They have made many eye-opening and quizzicaltnoves with people who actually play. Two years ago, with- out so much as a twitch, the Jets gave away now-Bengal quarter- back Jeff Blake. Blake has become the the comerstone of the. Bengal res• urrectionand .. under his on-the- field leadership, the Ben gals \Vere a much improved team this past season. In addition to losing Blake, before the start ofthis sea- son the Jets cut their leading in rushing and all-purpose yards from the year before (Johnny Johnson) an~ they traded away their only respectable wide re- ceiver (Rob Moore), waiting until a week before opening day oefore finally acquiring Charles Wilson from Tampa Bay to replace him. How did Charles do? Let's put it this way. Wayne Chrebet, a wideout from Hofstra who was.not even expected to make the team. led the Jets in almost all receiving categories. Draft experts predict that the Jets .• who own the nurn- beronepick1 will select USC wide receiver Keyshawn Johnson, per- haps the best all-around player available. The last time the chose this high, the masterminds ofthc Meadowlands chose Blair Tho- mas at number two in 1·990. He now sells insurance . .1-E~ T-S sLick· suck suck. .... .... Kudos the New Yor:k Giants for retaining Rodney llatnpton. No way this team could have ex- pected to improve from last season's dismal output with un- proven Tyrone Wheatley and un- interesting llcrschel Walker. Y ct the Giants made an mind-boggling move of their own this past week Not known fQr pursuing free agents, 'the Giants offered a five- year $10 million offer to Ron Stone; a back-up offensive line- man with the Cowboys. In past years, the Giants have shown to he reluctant to givethc big money to the big names. I guess they would rather give the big money to the names nobody knows .... W:iye (i[onrndticnsis •March7, 1996 • Page 19 corner--- ... .The advent of spring train- ing brings with it a certain purity. a freshness, the knowledge that a new and clean slate is upon us. Nowllere is this more evident than at the Yankees spring trainihg fa- cility where., for the first time in more than a year and a half. Dwight Gooden is throwing pitches to major league batters. The saga of the former \Doctor K\ is well documented. Stardom as a youth, .shoulder surgeries as a young adult. and drugs, drugs. drugs. Gooden is 'the latest in an l inc of Yankees whom ight he more prone to engage in a post-game discussion of codependency or an analysis ofthe twcl ve.-step pro- gmm than to discuss the prcvi- mts night's game. Last \Vcck, New York sports reporter Sal Marchiano declared the fon11cr Met phenorn to be fully cured and back .in control of his life. Well, wc'Hjust sec about that One thing is for sure, there will likely be little sympathy e1(tended toward the direction of Dwight Gooden when he 1nakcs his trip up to the Big Apple. missed the first month ofthc sea- son, but when he retumed,.all was forgiven. lie received a standing ovation in his first outing. and the cheers never stopped. By the time the end of that season had rolled around, with the Mcts in the thick of a pennant race they would even- tually lose. Gooden's prohlcms had been all but forgotten, by all. This time, the fans arc less likely to forget. Especially those parents who had to explain to their chil- dren two summers ago why their favorite baseball player would not be playing for a while. It will he interesting to see how many Met fans flock to Yankee stadium for Gooden's home debut New York sports fans have very selective memories. The disappointment of Dwight Gooden the Met, will1wt be forgotten too quickly ..... ..... On.a mor:e local subject, the conclusion of the hockey season at Union this past season brought with it an end to the stellar on-icc c;:ueers of Scott Boyd and Reid Simonton. Off the ice, it also sig- naled the conclusion of a colle- giate broadcasting career. For the past year. I have had to honor and privilege ofbringing Union Col- lege hockey to the airwaves of WRUC. During this time, I have also become a steadfast supporter of the program, and one of the team's biggest fans. Despite the losses and the frustration of this past season. my affiliation with the team was an experience I will al- ways cherish. No one worked hardergame~in and gamc-outthan the Union College Skating Dutch- men. I would like to thank all of WIUJC's listeners for their sup- port and kind words over the course <)f the year. I would last I ike to thank my partner Adam \Ill man, the Union coaching staff, and the players for providing for me a lifetime worth of memories. . I' R I :\ C I I' I. E S \I S 0 l :\ )) R J-. I I R I: ~~ EX T I ;,; \ I·. S ·1 I :\ (, E or fast relief from the nagging ach!! of taxes, we ecommend TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs are tax- deferred annuities designed to help· build ad~itional assets-money that can help make the difference between Jiving and living n•t/i'after your working As the nation's 1argest rt>tlremcm .~sstem. b,t~:>t•d on assets und\\r m.magemcnt.·w!.' offer d ,.,uJ\' r-.mgl' of' allocation choit:es -from thl' TIAA TrrldliiUn.tl Annuity. which G\u •. wantees prm1.:ipctl u.nd inten:-.t (bacl<.ed by the l.·omp<!n.):S claims-paying .abil•tyl. years are over. Swimming .Few :have had as much as Gooden and then tossed it all away. While pitching with theMcts, he had a tl a in cd a status rarely achieved by New York profes- sional athletes. He was a demi-god. I lis win-loss record, which floundered hclow 500 in each of his last three sea- sons with the Mets, was virtually ig- nored by the adoring fans. It simply did not rnattcr what he did on the mound. Dwight Gooden was a revered man An ambassador for the Mcts and baseball. Gooden was the last link the 198t1 Cham- pionship team and he was the only bright light in the gloom of the early 1990's. Gooden· s 1994 suspension for drugusc was not his first. Just before the start ofthc 1987 sea- son. Gooden admit- ted himselfforrchab in New York. lie eontributions to your SRAs are deducted from your ·salazy on a pretax basis. Thnt lowers your current taxable income, so you start saving on fed ern! and. in most cases, state and local income taxes right away. \Vhat's more, any earnings·on your SRAs are also tax deferred until you receive them as income. That can make a big dilference in how painful your tax bill is every year. to TIAA-CRl~l\\s <li\\ersilied ,-ar•ablt.> .tnnuit,· acl'oUnts. And our upc-nses arc- \'~r:_\' hw.* \~·hiL·h means more of your money goes tow<~rd imprmmg your future financial health. lb find out more. call I 800·842-2888.\\'oll \'nd you a complete SRA information k1t, piUs c.1 l\rce slide caku1ator that shows yQu how mul·h SRAs can lower .VcJttr taxes . 3/15-3/17 -·Women's Nationals 3/22-3/24 --Men's Nationals@ Atlanta, Georgia Do You Want VISA.& Masterca,rd C·redlt Cards? Naw ~u •n a .. ~ two or the tnoee reeocntud and accepted credit cards In the world.\VIsaft and MasterCatd\ · ~milt cards. .. '\In your name.· EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN CREbiT or IIAVE BEEN11JRNED OOWN·BEFORE! I · VISA& and MasterCard& the crdlt cards you dellene and need for- ID-BOOKSo--OErARTMENT STOR.ES--1UTION-ENTERtAJNMENT- EMEAlEfCY C\511- TICKETS-RESTAURANTS- HQT&I..S-MotELS--G\5-CAR RENTALS- REPAIRS-AND ~·o~LD YOUR CREDIT RATINGI Qtlt.I'NC'l- .... flo turn downs I .... s,tJC~fi flo credIt chet:tst· '4\5~~; 1 ,,•=-t'l. flo security depositl G~ .• Otel.. SEND TilE COUPON TODAY - YOUR .CRElUT tARUS-ARE.Vf\lllNGI • & • • ~ ~ Call today-it c·ouidn't hurt. Ensuring the future for those who shape it;\ , • ~.~ra!t~ml t-l p,,.,,.~ IR:III'IIItt't /tum.</ llnolly.•~·.l995~ l.t_pp~l' Analy11..-o11 Sci\VI<'t$ I no .l.lpfr~ n • .v..,,.,.,. ·~\\''VI•nd l~r .•. I '1 1 1ft \Qu.,n(\rh·l CRbl· cl\l111u: .. h:~• ill'!: dcs.tnilult\..! li,Y Tlt\A-CRIW Indivulu:tl nnd lnsti\Uiconnl So!l'\'lt\'11. In( l'\r mnn• onrn!•l~lr oni<Jnn~nun. ,,,. h~<hn!J ,1\,~rge• omd expense.. calli BOO &f~·27.13.cxt. 5509, Cur a o:urnnl CRI~F prt1$jll'rlu\\ Ro..·.~cllhl' Jln>><jM'<\tus ,~,.I,,Uy IH;\!nn- ,\'\'' 11wrs1\' \\\'! mnnr.,Y r, vt4c~is61-;:-F'EoER'Ai. ·nw;.:s(JiT£ iiG-- i HOI .. LT'HOOD., FLORIDA .13020 I : YJ~S! lwant VISA8/MASTERCARD8 Cr~lt : I Olldsapproved llnmedlalcty. 100Ve OUARAHTEEDI I I I I I I NAME I 1 ADDRESS I CnY STATE -ZIP -- I 1 PHONE ------ s.s.• ------ I SIGNA11JRE __ ...__.._ _________ _ I I I NOtE: r.tutn<:aid It • tqttsermt t,.dfrnartt rl fo4aotln()ard lntrrnlllklr•l I•• VIsa l:o • ~l11rmllradtn••k vi VISA USA. Inc. end \1!0J\ ln~tl51llnml ['J:JIIIi!ll l:l;l;ifl:t;.Jtlii~J:Ilol•f 1• ·- - - lit - - - ... - - .. - - ... -- I ' I I • • I I • I

',,I ' '' March 7, 1996 PAGE20 Szucs Dyes Hair, Adds Hat Trick by Dagan A. LaCorte A G~otl Sports Editor For the first time in two sea- sons, there will be no playoffs for the Skating Dutchmen. Union College's sole division I team finished the season with four KC.A.C. wins, placing the team in eleventh place. For the Skating Dutchmen, the 1995-96 season can be seen as a season of mixed reviews. The team openedtheyear on a high note, crushing Waterloo 9-0, and playing well against national powerhouses Maine and New Hampshire. However, the team did not always play consistently, as witnessed by poor showings at St. Lawrence and Yale. De· spite the mixed season, the Dutchmen did manage to finish the se~on with an impressive performance on Saturday against Yale. The Dutchmen's playoff hopes ended on Friday, as the team was eliminated as a result of their 4-3 1oss against Princeton. The Dutchmen took Dutchmen Fall Short of Playoffs a 2-0 lead on goals by Andrew Will and Eric Houle, but came up short in the end. Princeton's win combined with a win by Dartmouth mathematically eliminated the Dutchmen from the post-season. Prior to Saturday nighfs game, the Dutchmen paid trib .. ute to their senior Class. The graduation of Scott Boyd and Reid Simonton repre- sents a great loss to the Skat- ing Dutchmen. Boyd and Simonton, who often are paired as defensive partners, represent theooreofUnion 's defense. ln the past four years, the two Calgary na- tives have h~lped the Dutch- .men become a respected di- vision I program .. The team also paid tribute to assistant coach Chris Sears and man- ager Phil Boyce, both of whom will be graduating this June. As the Dutchmen bid farewell to the old gen- eration, the next generation emerged. Freshman Mark Szucs netted his first career hat trick, scoring three consecutive goals. Freshman winger Eric Houle netted. his second goal of the weekend, giving the Dutch- men a 4.;0 lead. Freshmen Mark Will and Ryan.Boyd also played solidly on defense, with Will get- ting his first career point. Goalie Leeor Shtrom turned in an im- pressive performance, gaining his first E.C.A.C. win. Union's success on Friday night gives lightto Union's future. The 1996-97 season wiU rep- resent the biggest test for the Skating Dutchmen. Next year's senior class. is the largest class the Dutchmen 'have h going division l. With thirteen pfayers, the success of next season's team is in the hands of the senior class. However, that question won't be answered for a few months. As for now, ·hockey comes to a close. MatkSzucsscot~.tl.hatirld versus Yal~artSaturtlay(Photo by Rick ~d~r.~!'/Fg . or the • emor1es Thanks . '- ,, ' Seniors Reid Simonton and Scott Boyd celebrate their last game with a win over Yale on Saturdqy (Photo by Laurel Ruma/TC) )

