, I ... .... nn.cnr t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXV Nwnbet XI New York Donna Shalala, One on One . . . .. - . - . - - - ' . . An Interview With The U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services by Evan L. Morris Editor In Chief Donna Shalala, th~ United States Secretary of Health and Human Services, visited Union College Wednesday, January 24, 1996, to discuss President Clinton's State of the Union ad- dress that had taken place the night before. Mrs. Shalala had lunch with a number of Union College students, and then spoke to approximately four hundred students, faculty and media members in the Nott memorial. Between lunch and her speak- ing engagement, Mrs. Shalala did sit down for an interview with the Concordiensis. At the urging of the Secret Service, every year one member of the President's Cabinet must stay at the White House during the State of the Union as a pre- cautionary measure should any- thing happen to the capital. This year, Secretary Shala,la, twelfth in the chain of command, was chosen to watch the oval office while the president delivered his speech. \It was an honor to be chosen, to stay in the White House,.\ Shalala said, \but be- ing President was not something I seriously considered.\ She did joke with students at lunch that every few minutes she would \peek\ her head into the oval of- fice as a check to make sure ev- erything was quiet in the Execu- tive branch of the White House. Secretary Shalala's agency is responsible for health care, wel- fare, food and drug safety, medi- cal research and income safety programs. Until this year, her agency was also responsible for Social Security and Disability, a division of Health and Human Services that had taken a lot of criticism. At the beginning of this year, Social Security be- carne its own agency inde- pendent of Health and Hu- man Services. Why was an agency, so important to mil- lions of Americans and so · controversial since The Con- tract with Ametica, no longer under Secretary Shalala' s au- thority? \The system is pro- tected more by making it an independent agency. It is a very large bureaucracy with great leadership that prima- rily writes checks, and maybe, hopefully, it will be more efficient this way.\ When asked if the modern day college generation would be able to collect Social Se- curity forty-five, fifty years down the road, Secretary Shalala said, \Social Secu- .. rity and·Medicar~ will almo~t · .· definitely be t4ere for your Continued page 3 Donnt~. Sllalala speaks to students «ttlte.Noft Memorial Photo by Laurel Ruma/Tile Concordiensis Virtual Vacations by Marty Metz Staff Writer In the past few years, it has become impossible to ignore the rapid growth of communication through computers. In addition to the new e-mai·l craze, one can not deny that the World Wide Web and Cyberspace are the fastest growing methods of com- munication, .. the information superhighvyay!' as most of the television news programs, newspapers, and magazines have dubbed it. Well, not surpris- ingly, it has made its way to Union College. Aside from e-mail, and the addition of the World Wide Web computer in the College Center this year, Union is attempting an interesting experiment, a pro- gram called \Virtual Term Abroad.\ Bruce Reynolds of the economics department initiated the idea. He came up with the \Virtual Term Abroad\ because he wanted to incorporate the fast-growing world of computercommunications and cyberspace within the curriculum of East Asian Studies, which is one of his primary fields of interest. The goal of the program is to provide students, such as engineers, who for some reason or another are not able to go on a semester abroad, an opportu- nity to simulate this experience. The \Virtual Term Abroad\ is set up as an exchange program between either Kansai Gaidai University in Osaka, Japan, or the Nanjin Nashida University in Nanjin, China, which are both small liberal arts institutions like Union, where we already have semester abroad pro- grams. One oftheessentia] components ofthe program, in terms of logistics, is what is called in computer terms a \MOO.\ A MOO is a simulated environ- Continued on page 3 .< 1 i .. '

News Thursday February 1, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone I-Jarold Lohner Exhibition: Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings Exhibit: Splendor in Stone Chet's Open 8:00a 9:00a 8:30a 6:00p 12:00p I O:OOp 8:00p 12:00a Friday February 2, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 8:00a 8:30a Harold Lohner Exhibition: Silent 9:00a 6:00p · Heroes-Prints/Drawings Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 12:00p 5:00p Vellinger String Quartet College/ 8:00p 10:00p Concert Series Chet's Open 8:00p 12:00a Saturday February 3, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 8:00a 8:30a Harold Lohner Exhibition: Silent 9:00a 6:00p Heroes-Prints/Drawings Adventurers' Gui1d Magic Card 12:00p 5:00p Tournament Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 12:00p 5:00p Sunday February 4,1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone Harold Lohner Exhibition: Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 8:00a 8:30a 9:00a 6:00p 12;00p lO:OOp Monday February 5, 1996 .. Exhibit: Splendor in Stone Harold Lohner Exhibition: Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 8:@0a 8:30a · 9:00a 6:00p 12:00p IO:OOp Tuesday February 6, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone Harold Lohner Exhibition: Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings Exhibit: Splendor in Stone Women'sCommission Homophobia Workshop: Minnie Bruce Pratt 8:00a 9:00a 12:00p 3:30p 8:30a 6:00p lO:OOp 5:00p NOTT MEMORIAL ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM NOTT MEMORIAL CCCHET'S NOTT :MEMORIAL ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM NOTT MEMORIAL MEMORIAL CHAPEL CC CHET'S NOTT MEMORIAL ARTS BUILDING AllUUM Iffi OLD CHAPEL NOTT MEMORIAL . NOTT MEMORIAL ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM NOTT MEMORIAL NOTT MEMORIAL ARtS BUILDING ATRIUM NOTT MEMORIAL NOTT MEMORIAL ARTS BUILDING ATRRJM NOTT MEMORIAL CC409 Free Movie: \Ferris Bueller's Day Off' 7:00p IO:OOp CC CHET'S Women's Commission Speaker: 8:00p IO:OOp CCAUDITORIUM Minnie Bruce Pratt Wednesday February 7, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 8:00a 8:30a NOTT MEMORIAL Harold Lohner Exhibition: Silent 9:00a 6:00p ARTS BUILDING Heroes-Prints/Drawings A1RillM Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 12:00p I O:OOp NOTT MEMORIAL Chet's Open 8:00p I 2:00a CC CHET'S Thursday February 8, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 8:00a 8:30a NOTT MEMORIAL Harold Lohner Exhibition: Silent 9:00a 6:00p ARTS BUILDING Heroes-Prints/Drawings A1RillM Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 12:00p 1 O;OOp NOTT MEMORIAL ALAS Speaker 7:30p 9:00p CC AUDITORIUM Chet's Open 8:00p 12:00a CC CHET'S To publicize an event, e-mail the concordy at Concordy@gar.union .edu, or call the Concordy office at extension 615 5. We would be happy to include any and all campus events in this calendar. • ·• ,.. '4 , \\\· If< • ,.~ r .r ~ • tlrge C1tnrt.cttrah~t1$is, February 1, 1996 Page 2 DATE/TIME LOCATION INCIUENT MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 1996: 10:00 AM . Fox/Davidson Lot MOTOR VEiflCLE ACCIDENT: Student's car damaged while parked. HJT AND RlJN. 12:50 PM South Collt!ge AGGRAVATED HARASSMENT: Recurring problem with hang•up phone calls. 2:11 PM Fox House VANDALISM/UNAUTHORIZED 4:09PM, Campus Gro1,1nds 7:40 PM Old Chapel 10:45 PM Davidson North .TUESDAY,JANUARY23, 1996: 12:03 AM West College 10: 15 AM Edwards House ENTRY: Padlock hasp cut. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Person loitering on campus. Located, identified and advised off campus. THEFT: Fraternity banner stolen. VANDALISM: Glass in entrance door shattered. V ANfiALISM: South entrance door frame broken. VANDALlSMilJNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Janitor's close~ door forced open.Door broken, vacuum removed. 4:30PM Fox/Davidson Lot THEFT: Spare tire cover stolen from Student's car. Attempt to remove the spare tire. 6:56PM Fox North THEFT: Four bags of redeemable cans stolen from outside patio, Suspects fled off campus. Area searched. 11:42 PM Wells House Lot PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Repeat unregistered violations. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24 2 1996: 11 :08 AM Ri<;hmond SECURITY HAZARD: Attic hatch unlocked. Padlock missing. 2:08AM Becker Hall area SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Person reported wander ing the campus.Located, identified and advised off 1:30PM Lament House 4:46PM West Lot 8:14PM West College THURSDAY, JANUARY 25, 1996: 12:05 AM Fieldhouse campus. THEFT: VCR stolen from basement conference room. PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicle immobilized. Repeat unregistered violation. VANDALISM: Window pane on North entry door broken. VANDALISM: Window broken. Suspect observed running from area. Area searched. 2:10PM ·12:50 PM Campus Operations THEFT: New tool pouch missing. Richmond AGGRAVATED HARASSMENT: Telep?onecalls 5:19PM North College FRIDAY, JANUARY 26; 1996:, soliciting phone sex. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor of marijuana reported 2nd floor are:=t.Unable to confirm. 4:20 PM North Terrace LaneTIIEFT: Traffic control sign stolen off barrier gate. 6:04 PM Raymond North SECURITY HAZARD: Tampering with lock on 2nd floor fire door. FRIDAY, JANUARY 26 1 1996: 7:06 PM Reamer Center SIMPLE ASSAULT/TllliSPASS: Former em ployee entered work area without pennission and struck a current employee. Suspect fled campus. SPD contacted. 8:40PM Achilles Rink SATURDAY, JANUARY 27,_122_~ 12:32 AM Reainer Center 12:50 AM 2:15AM 7:00PM :13 PM Y:17 PM 10:45PM 11:26 PM 10:00 AM North College Nott Street Davidson South North· College Achilles Rink Alexander Lane Alumni Gym Alexander Lane Raymond South 4:43 PM West College RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: Students involved in throwing oranges at players during hockey game.Several personsidentified and ejected from the rinkConduct Charges filed. VANDALISM: Rock thrown through entry door window. NOISE: Complaint of loud music. RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: Students placed traffic barricades in middle of road. SPD patrol gave chase. Students located and identified. Conduct Charges filed. TRESPASS: Visitor forced his way into building. Located and identified. Believed to be a guest of a student. SPD contacted due to circumstances. Subject advised off campus. TRESPASS: Vendor's representative attempted to enter residence to distribute advertisements.RA directed the person out of the building. TRESPASS: Visitor, refer to item at 7:00PM 1/27/ 96, returned to campus and created a disturbance. SPD summoned. Subject arrested. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: Studeht's car ran off roadway at \S\ turn. No injury, property damage to vehicle and traffic sign. VANDALISM: Door closer torn off entry door. ATTEMPTED TJIEF1: Two students attempted to enter residence carrying stolen item. Staff member intervened.Suspects fled area:. Item recovered and returned to owner · VANDALISM: Two padlocks on road b~rrier chains btoken. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR! Trash barrel emptied in hallwaY.and stairwell spilling garbage throughout the area. V ANDAUSM: Ceiling tile broken. 'li

'<lUre OJnucu:dr.i.ensi$ • February 1, 1996 • Page 3 Secretary of HHS Donna Sbalala(cont'd) generation. It may and probably will he reformed.\ For students graduating who no longer are covered by their parents insur- ance, Secretary Sha:lala said. she sees reform in health care approaching fast. \Health Care is changing, and becoming leaner and more efficient. More people are moving toward managed care, as people live .longer and unfortunately get sicker. We just haveto find away offinancing.these changes.\ Are HMO's the future? \l-IMO's are the future of the moment We can not predict how health . care is going to be organized, and we shouldn't try. We should make sure that . we are flexible enough for new organizations to develop so we can take advan- tage of them.\ In the State of the Union, President Clinton called for \Congress to expand work-study and help one million young Americans work their way through col- . lege by the year 2000; to provide a $1000 merit scholarship for the top five percent of graduates in every high school in the United States; to extend Peli Grant scholarships for deserving and ne.;:dy students; and to ma~e up to $10,000 a year of college tuition tax deductible.\ Secretary Shalala said all theses ideas were feasible as \both the republicans and the President support tpese programs. The tax deduction would have to be supported and passed by Congress before it could pass. This could happen almost immediately because it could even be a part of the budget deaL\ How fast then can a budget deal be reached? \Realistically it must be reached and agr~ed upon immediately . If it doesn't happen in the next couple of months we are not going to have a budget deal, and we are going to go into the election without one. The President and key members in Congress have got to get out and campaign, so they must have everything. done before spring break, which is March 15.\ Is it to the president's advantage not to have a budget and be able to say \look what Bob Dole and Phil Gramm did\? \We don't feel it is ever good for the nation to go without a budget and no one person is more important than the nation.\ Secretary Shalala has had major success at pushing drug past the food and Clrug administration as they approved Saquinivir Protease, a drug that slows the Human Immune Deficiency Syndrome much faster than its predecessor AZT, in ninety-five days. Why, then, hasn't RU 486, more commonly known as the morning after pill, passed? \We do not even have an application for RU 486, a,nd until an application is submitted it can not· · be passed because we have nothing to judge it on.\ Prior to being ap- pointed as Secretary of Health and Human Ser- vices Secretary Shalala had served as chancellor of the Uni- versity of Wisconsin at Madison. In 1980, Sec- retary Shalala was President Shalala, lead- ing Hunter College as the youngest woman to lead a major United States College. Ac- cordingto Mrs. Shalala, apathy is not necessar- ily uncommon. \Each generation goes through a period and finds their issues, and this is so important for students, becaus.e it gives them something . ' ' ~ ~ to get involved in. This Sh1tlala answering Questions at the Nott generation too will soon Photo by Laurel Ruma\ The Concordiensis . find an issue.\ She did have some advice on how to end the apathetic attitude . on the Union College campus: \A division one football team that the entire school can watch, enjoy, and take pride in,\ she said with a laugh. Campus News Virtual Vacations (coot' d) ment that exists in the computer, in cyberspace, where people can interact. One simulated classroom~type environ- ment called \Diversity University\ al· ready exists. What Union hopes to do is to create, with these other Universities, their own MOO environment, an audio- visual environment that would serve as the link context in courses that the Ameri- can, Chinese, and Japanese students wiH be taking. While other schools have ex- perimented with computer communica- tions, such as University ofRhode Island, which runs an e-mail program where stu- dents correspond overseas, Union is the first actually to propose the Virtual Term Abroad idea, where students take courses for credit over the MOO environment. The program entails three courses to be taken over the computer, two being East Asian Studies lO and 20, and then a third course which the student may elect. For example, one of these courses in· volves a group of engineers from each University teaming up with each other to help solve design problems, and an- other involves students actually negoti- ating on behalf of their respective nation- states by meeting in cyberspace. Most of these courses focus largely on the cultural angle, the differences between the three cultures, and the stereotypes that each culture perceives the others to hold about them. This angle may be developed through the exchange of surveys and questionnaires involving prejudice and stereotyping, which would then be re- ported and discussed in class. While Professor Reynolds agrees that you can not substitute virtual experience for actual experience and total immersion in a culture and expect it to have similar results, he feels that it is distinctive in that it is not only a brush with another country's culture, but also with the internet culture, which he says is a \growing part of our culture which you can't ignore.\ Another advantage that Reynolds cites is that while a semester abroad is con- centrated into one three- to four-month period, so that students might become dis- tanced from this culture upon their return, the Virtual Term Abroad program has the potential to be spread out over the course of two years, allowing the student to re- main involved with the culture(s) for a longer period of time. Furthermore, he points out that \it forces us as teachers to be creative in this new environment and think about what we're really doing, II Sour Key Note by Michelle R. Ellis News Editor Graduation is less than five months away and seniors are concerned that there is no one scheduled to deliver this year's commencement address. Senior Class President Jon Shapiro led a senior class meeting on Monday evening to discuss the commencement speaker, the senior class gift, and the pos- sibility of planning senior activities in the winter and spring; Less than fifteen stu- . · dents came to the meeting to deliberate . these significant matters. Shapiro initiated a discussion on the process of choosing a graduation speaker. From the outset there was a consensus among those present at the meeting that they did not want a politician to speak at commencement. One senior said that he found last year's address to be \less than inspirational.\ Others voiced their concern with the college's policy of arranging for \key- note\ speakers. The majority of those students inattendance expressed their dis- satisfaction with the traditional policy of arranging commencement speakers. In past years, Union has rewarded its gradu- ation speakers with honorary doctorates rather than furnishing them with large financial compensations. Students sug- gested that this policy makes it excep- tionally difficult for the college to bring in big-name speakers. One senior ex- pressed his. dismay over the current policy: \Hull wants to bring Union into the limelight but won't pay for any big names to come and speak at commence- ment.\ When Student Forum President Ken Chase asked those present if they were in favor of having a prominent and suc- cessful Union graduate deliver the com- mencement address, he received mixed reactions. Some of the alumni that Chase and Shapiro suggested were: Bob Hol- land, the CEO of Ben and Jerry's; Phil Robinson, the producer of Field of Dreams and Sneakers; and Kattie White, the editor of Redbook magazine. The meeting was brief and to the point. Seniors realized that they can play an im- portant role in determining who will speak at graduation this spring. Chase urged seniors to pursue leads in locating a speaker. \If there are people out there that have ideas for graduation speakers, they should contact the Student Forum at extension 5998 immediately, because time is of the essence.\ Seniors: if you are interested in work- ing with a committee to determine what this year's senior class gift will be, then you should consider joining the ~enior Class Gift Committee. This infonnal com- mittee meets at I 2:30pm on Tuesday af- ternoons in CC203.

Sparks of Invasion: China, Taiwan, and the United States by Matt Sandler World News Editor What would be news making in itself, the fact that Taiwan is hav- ing the .first democratic balloting for the presidency in its history, is be- ing shifted to the side with the news being broadcast from China. China has completed plans for a limited attack on Taiwan that could be launched in the aftermath of the election. Taiwan's President Lee is expected to win the vote in March. China fears that T~iwan's quest for greater recognition on the world stage is Times, Mr. Freeman, quoted Chi- nese officals as asserting their abil- ity to act without a intervention from the United States, because, Ametican leaders, \care more about Los Angeles than they do about Taiwan.\ Mr. Freeman character- ized this statement as indirectly threatening to use nuclear weapons on the United States. Mr. FFee- man, said, senior Chinese officials told him, that China \would sacri- fice 'millions of men' and 'entire cities' to assure the unity of China and who opinioned that the United State would not make comparable sacri- an at- tempt at indepen- dence. Since the e a r 1 y 1970's, the Chi- \China has completed plans for a limited attack on Taiwan ..• may be prepared to engage in nuclear black- mail against the U.S ... to defend ... national unity .... China should be fices.\ He also a s - serted t h a t \some · reminded that the United States is the only country to use A-bombs ... \ t n Beijing n e s e Communists on the mainland have represented China. Previously the Nationalists, led by Chiang Kai- shek, who fled to Taiwan, in the wake of their defeat in the Civil War against Mao Ze pong, had repre- sented China. But -with the open- ing to China, initiated by President Richard M. Nixon, the United States reversed its support, and gave the C0mmunists the Security Council seat that the Nationalists had occuppied. Richard Nixon, a staunch anti-communist, focused on mainland China, to cement a wedge between the Soviet Union and China. China continued to play an intergral part, as a swing mem- ber in the supetpower rivalry. What emerged was a Taiwan with captialism, not democracy, and not independent. There still exists the doctrine, of \one China,\ though Taiwan is separate but still a part of it. The dubious distinction has weathered rocky relations and maintained a quasi-peace. In 1954 there was a noticable escalation of tensions and American presence was intensified around Taiwan. The quasi-peace has weathered pro- paganda and frogmen operations against the Chinese mainland. The waming about the proposed nearly immient attack came from a fmmer Assistant Secretary of De- fense, Chas. W. Freeman Jr. who spoke with senior Chinese officials. Mr. Freeman, informed A!J.thony Lake, Mr. Clinton's Nationai Secu- rity Advisor, that the Chinsee Lib- eration Army, which emcompasses all aspects of defense, had prepared operational plans that would last for thirty days, with one non-nuclear, conventional missile being fired each of the thirty days. All that is needed is a decision by the Polit- buro to launch the operation .. John W. Lewis, is a political scientist at Stanford University, and confitmed the information. He regulai'ly meets with senior members of the Chinese military. What China is seeking to do is apply pressure, on the United States to force it to mod- erate President Lee's behavior. Reported by the New York maybe prepared to engage in nuclear blackmail against the U.S. to insure that Arr..ericans do not obstruct\ efforts by the People's Liberation Army. \to defend the principles of Chinese sovereignty over Taiwan and Chinese national unity.\ Experts are concerned about ac- tions by Congress that can fuel the flames. If Mr. Lee returns to United States, we can expect worse rela- tions between the U.S. and China ' than after his first visit. A Chinese military leader warned in Novem- ber that a move could be \explo- sive.\ The Pentagon has been de- liberately vague abo1,1t what it would do, calling the posture \stra- tegic ambiguity.\ Some members in Congress say that the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 includes a implicit pledge to defend Taiwan. Taiwan is a large trading partner of the United States. The Adminis- tration asserts that that pledge would depend on factors that occur. These indirect hints about nuclear weapons being used are clearly not indirect threats. Any- time the United States is implicitly or indirectly threatened with nuclear war, there is cause for alarm. A posture of ·•strategic ambiguity\ is not in the best inter- ests of the United States. Miscal- culations are made by \strategic ambiguicy.\ One question: is Tai- wan worth the potential for nuclear war? I would argue the potential flashpoint between the United States and China, would be over the way that China is trying to bully its initiatives through fear and in- timidation. Already, China is try- ing to assert its hegemony in South East Asia through the use of arms sales, economic trade, and military might. The United States will most likely counsel both sides to exer- cise restraint, and dust this under the rug. I am in no way arguing for nuclear war, but tlueats are vety easy to be made, hard to reverse. I do not believe that a this will dead to a nuclear weapon exploding over Los Angeles. I am deeply concerned by these threats issued, nuclear war is not a idle threat. To conduct nuclear war ' one must have considered the con- sequences of .retailation. To make a public threat they either have con- cluded that the threat will suffice to change American policy, or that they are prepared for the risks. Nuclear war is a calculated act· not ' random. China should be reminded that the United States is the only country to have used Atomic weap- ons against another country, a pros- pect that it does not want to use again, but will if needed. With these threats I wonder what will happen six months from now or a year .frGm now? The best message for the United States is to tell the leadership in Beijing, that it re- spects the \One China policy,\ but will not be bullied around by nuclear threats. A crystal clear message that our sovereignty will not be supplanted to the whims of the Chinese, in a directive issued by the President of the United States, which states that if the Chi- nese attack, then each missile they launch will be responded to by the imposition of I 00 percent tariffs, for two months which is twice as long as the planned attack, effective im- mediately, on Chin('!se-made goods for each day that the attack occurs. If tariffs do not cwtail the missile attacks, there is the option to send a Carrier Battle Group closer to Taiwan. Deploying a CatTier Battle Group intially would serve to heighten the conflict and would be self destructive. Economic, then military power, will be the best way to counter threats. \Strategic am- biguity,\ is an inventive word for appeasement. Appeasement does not work. Patriotism Gone Wrong by Anand Rao Contributing Writer One idea often expressed among the citizens of this country is that if you don't love America, then you should get the hell out of here. I often hear this idea expressed among students at Union College, and I remember hearing this senti- ment expressed many times during the Persian Gulf War in January of 1991. At that time, I was a six- teen-year old high school student living in a small town outside of Boston, and I can still remember how Operation Desert Storm aroused a sense of fierce patriotism among my classmates and neigh- bors. Those Americans who op• posed our nation's participatioh in the Gulf War were rudely told that if they did not love America, then they should leave. I am sorry to say that I was among those persons who became fervently jingoistic when American troops destroyed the Iraqi military in a blinding campaign of slaugh- ter and destruction. For all its hor- rors, I thought the Persian Gulf War was the most awesome spectacle ever broadcast on live television. In the five yeats since the American Jed coalition liberated Kuwait I ' have become aware of how seem- ingly irrational, gung-ho national- ism has gripped our country dur- ing the first two months of 1991. War is now effec.tive again as an instrument of policy. Fervent na- tionalism will seek its use again and again. There are times and places for American leadership and inter- Vention, but blood~thirsty national- ism could led us back down the road of misguided involvement and wm·s we do not understand. The United States is a great coun- try because its citizens have the right to disagree. The right to not love America is one of the keys to our nation's greatness. Love it or Leave it, sounds loyal, but that statement runs counter to every- thing that this country is supposed to stand for and the duty that our brave veterans sacrificed for theiF fellow citizen. Therefore, if you really do love America, and if you really do love what this country stands for, then you ought to respect the opinions of those persons who absolutely despise AtJ1erica. One can respect their rights, while openly disagreeing with their po- litical views. Respecting someone else's rights does not deprive you of your rights. The Gulf War was remarkably different than the Vietnam War. The counb.-y was not divided at the seams, Anti-war protestors were protesting policy, not soldiers and policy. There were no deaths on college campuses. The war was televised but restricted. Americans saw a sanitized war which was lik- ened to a 'Nintendo game,' though the war certainly was not a game. General Powell said before the Press, \trust me.'' The press grudg- ingly did, but the public suppmi was ovetwhelming. This war was a turn around from Vietnam. The military was restored, American confidence was restored, and the war was a remarkable achievement on many levels. This, however, does not negate the fact that people in this country are entitled to their opinions. Free- dom of Speech does not protect the speech we like, Freedom ofSpeech protects the .speech we find odious. Operation Joint End.eavor. the NATO IFOR mission in Bosnia ' had its detractors in Congress, just like the Gulf War. Many in Con- gress were against the policy, but supported the troops. This may seem contradictory, but this is what happened. Now regardless of po- litical .tffillu~ion, it can be reasom~~lely \lSSHmf!j that Con- gress is made up of patriots. Ifthey can p:ot~st tlle. pciicy, but support the troops, is not the American pub- lic entitled to that same right? If an ordinary citizen protests policy, and let me emphasize, that is what we are talking about here, not sol- diers, but policy; is that person any less of a patriot? Having said all of this, let me give some advice. The next time you find yourself tellit1g a friend that he/she should get the hell out .of here if he/she does not love America, think about the stupidity of that reasoning. If you reaiiy be- lieve that blind faith in a particular country ought to be a prerequisite for being able to live there, perhaps you should move to Saudi Arabia.

International: * There are 79 secret Ameri· can arsenals that remain scat- tered all throughout Austria, over forty· years after they were hidden to defend against a Soviet invasion. The United States had stockpiled the weapons in total secrecy in the 1950's without informing the Austrian government * Spain has granted citizen- ship to more than 600 surviv- ing members of the foreign volunteers who fought on be- half of the Republic in the Spanish Civil War which lasted from 1936 to 1939. About 45,000 so.ldiers from different countries, including the United States, enlisted into the International Brigades to fight the Fascist Franco forces who were being supported by Hitler and Mussolini. * Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights, John C. Shattuck, in a first visit by Western human rights offi- cials to examine firsthand evi- dence of horrible crimes against humanity in and around Srebrenica, said he saw widespread evidence that corroborates known reports. * Kotor Bay, could become a troubling sticking point be- tween Croatia and Serbia. The Former Yugoslav Navy's 41 vessels are located there. The bay is owned by Montenegro, which is a partner in the Serb dominated Yugoslav republic, which consists of Serbia· and Montenegro. The i'rcvlaka pcnin~ula pokes out just over a mile from the end of Croatia's Dalmatian Coast. The country that controls the peninsula controls the bay. If Croatia controls the peninsula, it has effective control over the movement of the Yugoslav Navy. Croatia has historical claims to the peninsula that go back 600 years. * American forces in Bosnia have heightened security after intelligence reports suggested that militant Muslim groups were planning to attack American positions in ·retali- ation for the life sentence re- ceived by Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, by a Federal judge in New York. There are for- eign volunteers, among them about 200 lranian Revolution- ary Guards who came to Bosnia to help it defend itself while the West imposed the arms embargo. Under the terms of the Dayton accords, all foreign volunteers were to have been expelled by ianu- ary 19. In addition there is an American in Bosnia, who is said to be an extremist and a pote11tial threat. * African women in France arc confronting the practice of polygamy, which allows the husband to have multiple wives. France, quietly sup- ported the practice, but with recent budget woes is recon- sidering its decisions of the past. \' Yasir Arafat is the true leader of the Palestinian people, butthe road to democ- racy is still along way from there. Mr. Arafat's stand on civil rights is sketchy at best, and reports that the election favored his supporters with less time available for oppo- sition candidates. * President Clinton dis- patched ~is top aides to lobby for a permanent han on nuclear tcs~ing. China. argu- ing for test and development purposes, wants the treaty to allow \peaceful\ nuclear !!X· plosions, \' Salman Raduyev, the Chechen rebel leader who conducted the raid on the hos- pital. in Kizlyar in the repub- lic of Dagestan, bordering Chcchyna, which led to the standoff and later destruction of Pervomasyskoye by Rus- sian elite forces. is alive and says he will battle on. * The World Health Organi- zation wants the United States and Russia to destroy their stocks of the smallpox virus, so that it cannot spread ever again. The Health organiza- tion also recommended that 500;000 doses of small pox vaccine be stored, as a precau- tionary measure. Nation: \'The United States is mount- ing an $18 million effort to change the nature ofthe Gov- ernment of Iran. The opera- tion was conceived by Newt Gingrich. Word of the opera- tion leaked last year, and Iran has approved a $20 million initiative \to counter the Great Satan.\ Three men accused of spying for the West will be hanged forthwith in Iran. \' President Clinton in his State of the Union address called the coming years an \age of possibility.\ Mr. Clinton, considered a great orator, was well received by the public. Conversely, Sena- tor Dole who .gave the Repub- lican response, said Mr. Clinton was an elitist and \al- most the last public defender of a discredited status quo,\ but came off appearing rigid and uncomfortable. * An American soldier who refused to serve under the United Nations command in the Balkans, was called a ''cancer\ by the Army and convicted in his trial. Special- ist New, a medic, refused to wear the U.N. insignia. He said .he was willing to go to Macedonia, but said that it was unconstitutional for him to wear U.N. gear or answer to U.N. command. by Michelle Neier Contributing Writer -New York City's Schools Chancellor, Dr.Rudy Crew criticizedGovemor George E. Pataki's budget proposal which includes cuts in edu- cation pending. He believes that cutbacks would further weaken the fragile system. Later in the day, Mr.Pataki defended his proposals. He maintains that local school systems could work well with the numbers outl·incd in the new budget. - Recently, a woman in a coma was found to be preg- nant. The woman has been in a nursing home near Rochester for the last ten years. After hearing the news that she had been raped and is now pregnant, her parents have chosen to have her carry to fltll term. This case has brought to light the vulnerability of nursing home patients. Also, bion1edical ethicists are concerned about both the woman's rights as a patient and the child's feelings as it grows up. - New York City Mayor, Rudolph Giuliani is consid- cring decreasing the size of the cities police force in an .effort to balance the bud- get. When questioned, however, the Mayor de- dined to speak on the mat- ter until his preliminary budget is released to the public. Police Commis• sioner Bratton claims that departments cottl d with- stand decreases in office help. He teels strongly, though, that as many offic- ers as possible are still needed to work on the city streets. - Westchester County, in southern New York, has decided to close four wel- fare oflices. County offi- cials say the offices are serving only 18% of the county's welfare recipients and were basically ineffi- cient. Supporters of the poor feel, however, that not everyone would receive the help they need after the offices are shut. In the past Westchester County has served as a model for the state in welfare setvices. It has been estimated that Westchester's previous re- forms have saved the state $62 million. -~A bill was passed in the New YorkS tate legislature this week making it iUegal to send pornographic mate- rials on line to minors. The bill does not .put regulations on materials posted on the World Wide Web or other general viewing areas. The bill would aim to stop users who lure young children in to pornographic viewing ar- eas. The bill would a11ow the justice system to convict people who send sexually expl ieit material or who make sexual advances to children on line. Some civil liberties organizations feel that he bill is too general and violates the First Amend- ment. Also, some on line services worry that they might get caught in legal problems as a result of the bill. -Cornell University has set a record by raising $1.5 bil- lion in five years. This bas been the largest fund raising campaign in the history of highereducation. Cornell's endowment per student has now gone up to $77,078 putting it in the top 40 of school endowments. These funds can be used now to- wards capital improvements as well as to offer more fi- nancial aid. .MoRe ~1> f'(fWs .. lite. o.ue.~H or ef(Gl~ND liliNks ~~ SHOU~l) GeT 1)\VO,ft~J> f New York Question of the Week: Should the Mayor of New York ,eut. th,e eity's poli~e forre by 1,()00 to help tleal with a re.ported $2 bil- ll:on d,·eticit gap in tlte eoming fiscal · .· year?

The Banking System: Changing with the Times t:.y Akin Sawyerr Colltributillg Writer The <:urrent proposals to de- regulate ~anks can be compared to the proposals that Alexander llamilton advocated in 193'-J to repair tl1c lack of confidence placed itlbanks, The two issues deal willl cl1anging the banking system. Alexander ~-Iamilton on one han-d wanted .to establish a new state bank while the debates being argued now want to re- move so111e of the regulations put on these banks. Congress has before it three proposals to de- regulate banking. One comes from RefJ. Jim Leach the chair- man ofthe House Banking Com- mittee, the second from the Sen. AI D'Arnato chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, and the third from the Clinton admin- istration_ Similar to the debates on banking in th~ 1830s, these proposals t<J deregulate banking _ present an interesting svectrum of approaches, but only one 'real' ch()ice for market-oriented Republicans: Tl1c 1Ja11king system of the United States has broken from its moorings; there ought to be no more con1idcnce placed in its usefulness under the existing or- ganizati{)n. A change must and inevitably will come, whether we arc prepared or not to meet the conseqLJences ( Hamilton, banks and currency p. 219). Hamilton believed there was a need for drastic change in the banking system; in contrast to this, Congress thinks there is a need to deregulate banking. The bill introduced by Rep. Jim Leach (Rep. Iowa ), chair- man orthc I louse Banking com- mittee, was a big disappoint- ment. A complex model of in- trusive micromanagcmcnt, the hill allows bankholding compa- n ics to establish securities sub- sidiaries under the wary eye of the federal reserve Board. The proposal is a step back from a bill that the same committee ap- proved in 1991 , when the demo- crats were in charge. Peter J. Wallison, the author ofthe article, sites that the Leach bill covers only a stnall part of the problem. Wallison explained that the bill only opens a small window of opportunity at the ex- _ pcnse of more Federal Reserve board controls. He further said that the bill will not benefit bank- ing organizations a great deal because it will not allow banks free innovation without regula- tory approval. On the other. hand, other financial institutions like insurance companies can freely duplicate banking services and innovate fi·eely because a majority of these companies are unregu lated. Alexander llamilton said,,. The legislature is to have and exercise a constant supervision over the affairs of the state bank\ ( llamilton p. 222 ). Hamilton proposed that T e J e i / e j ef? f~e J ead ou.f of ~ o\r fa:!. refu.r~. lntm<luring TdeFilr from tho IRS - a helpful new service that lets you fde your federal income tax rrlua1 in JDst Wn minutes with a frf'e\ call from.a Touclt-Toneru phone day or nigltl And absolutely no fc>rm• oo mail. With 'ThleFile.just follow voice-prompted instructions to key in your income infor.malJ()n All PnhiPs arE> verifred and all math is done for you. TeleF\de tells the amount of yonr rofnrtd. Or,. if you owe, you can stUI take tintiL April 15th to send your check. Thx filing domo't get any easier than thi,. If you ace single and filed Form 1040EZ lltllt year, you'll find 'tc:-h>Fi!l' lnfonnation in your tax booklet. Use it! g'a Department of 1hB Treasury tB!iJIInt:emel Flevonua Service Changing for good. iiiTeleFile It's free. It's fast. It works. the state bank should be regu- lated by government, in contrast to this, the debates in congress are a move to remove some or all of this regulation. The Clinton hill is described as iden- tical to the Leach hill. It con- tains much of the same changes that the Leach hill proposes. Only slightly better is the Clinton administration's propos- als. It would permit bank hold- ing companies or subsidiaries of banks to enter the insurance business as well as securities business. The Clinton bill is described by the author as the Leach bill in drag. The bill still creates a complex system of regulation which requires regulatory ap- proval to engage in many activi- ties. The similarities between the Leach and Clinton bills are apparent because both are at- tempts to give banking organi- zations more latitude while con- tinuing to stress the notion that banks and companies engaged in non-banking activities, such as manufacturing or telecommuni- cations, should not be allowed to incorporate in the same business organization. The most radical of the three bills is proposed by Senator AI D' Amato. Senator D' Amato ( R., NY), chairman of the Sen- ate Banking Committee, hopes to sweep away the concept of separating banking and com- merce with this bill. The bill al- lows banks to affiliate with com- panies of any kind. It also al- lows for securities firms and in- surance companies that are af- filiated with banks to be regu- lated hy the same regulators as their competitors. . Since tl1c bill docs not limit the scope of a banks affiliations, it eliminates the need for a bank regulator to review and approve the products and services ofthe affiliated companies._ The bill relies on existing regulatory and statutory restric- tions to ensure that banks are not taken advantage of, it also has provisions that do not allow banks to give an unfair advan- tage to its affiliates. Most im- portantly the bill enables banks to innovate freely through un- regulatcdaffiliates in developing new non-banking products, fi- nancial and nonfinancial. Even- tually, capital tied up in the bank- ing business would be moved into more profitable areas that offer better long range prospects. This catt be compared with Hamilton's proposals due to the fact that Hamilton wanted an integration between banks and merchants. He believed they all were involved in a communal cause that shonld be integrated, not separated. Hamilton said,\ The commercial community will not again submit to be annilli- lated; there will be no discrimi- nation between banks and mer- chant, the whole will be involved f? 3 aM. Call fhe r; a ~d ha~j u.p rea/ fa?f. Introducing TeleF'de from the IRS - a helpful new service that lets you file your federal income tax return ·in just ten minutes with a free call from a Touch-Tone'\ phone day or nighL And absolurely no forms to ·mall. With TelcFilc, just follow v<iice·prompted·inslructions to key in your income information. All entries are verified and all math is done for you. TeleFile tells the amount of your refund. Or, if you owe, you can still take until April 15th to send your check. Thx filing doesn't get any easier than this. If you are single and filed Fonn l040EZ last year, you'll find TelcFile Information in· your tax booklet. Use it! $\ ~ Department of the Treasury fJ!011 ltitemal Revenue Service Changing for good. liTeleFile It's free. It's fast. It works. in a common cause\ (Hamilton, Banks and Currency p.720). Hamilton in his proposal defined the functions and limitations he believed should be placed on banks. Alexaoder Hamilton said: The state bank to be prohib- ited from discounting of pur- chasing promissory notes and from discounting or purchasing promissory notes and from re- ceiving money on depos·it, ex- cept specie for safe keeping or transmission; and in neither case, without some change, that no interference should conflict with the legitimate business of well-regulated private banking (Hamilton, Banks and Currency p. 222). Hamilton's proposals put strict restrictions on what state banks and banks in general could do. It restricted private banks to circulation, discounts and de- posits. The bills being proposed want to expand the functions of. banks arid their ability to com- pete in a rapidly changing economy. Hamilton's proposals and the current biJis being proposed in congress want to install change in the banking system. The bills currently being proposed are like an extension of Hamilton's pro- posals. They favor partial or to- tal deregulation of the banking system. They go further to ex- pand the functions ofthe banks with the changing times.

.Anyone AWAKE? Why is it that over the past two weeks we have only received one letter to the editor regarding our editorials? Despite the fact that apathetic Union smdents have had little to say in writing, numerous members ofthe editorial board have been approached by people who had com- plaints or comments about the editorials. If in the future people have comments or opinions they wish to share with the editorial boar~ they should do so in the form of a letter to the editor. By writing a letter, one engages in the type of serious and public debate that the op-ed section of this paper attempts to facilitate; Unfortunately, without the participation of our com- munity it is impossible to foster such debate. So the next time you disagree with the opinions expressed in the edi- torial, please do not privately funie over it, butrather write a letter to the editor so that our newspaper will reflect the views and thoughts of the entire community. This particular lack of participation suggeststhat Union students in fact desetve the reputation for apathy that many criticsspeak o£ If any of youare reading this mao:;tetpiece of an editorial then why not write a letter expressing your opinion about apathy at Union? Hey, if you're a sorority sister who feels that women's rush is not in fact \super- superficial,'' write a letter, otherwise you are tacitly agree- ing with the opinions we express here. If we receive no letters then we will officially be able to say that Union stu- dents are apathetic about their apathy. POLITICAL CORRECTNESS AT UNION COLLEGE MAN wo~N ~STER JERK . . : · ··()P-ED ·.. ·· . . ' Intellectual Life Outside the Classroom at Union? Think Again! Have you ever felt frustrated with the lack of intellectual life outside the classroom at Union? Do you wish people would talk more about ideas after they leave class? Do you wish there were more varied, interesting things to do on campus after classes end? If so, then 1) you're not alone, and 2) you may be heartened to hear that many of your fellow students and faculty members are going to be sponsoring projects this winter and spring term to cre- ate a more lively intellectual life on campus. Last year, a group of stu- dents, funded by the \Strength- ening Teaching and Learning\ program ofthe PEW Charitable Trust, conducted a survey of Union students regarding their perception of the intellectual cli- mate on campus. They found that while students are gener- ally happy with their learning in their classes, a significant por- tion of Union students are dis- satisfied with what they see as a lack of intellectual life outside ·.the classroom (77% of students said they were satisfied With the intellectual quality of their classes; only J8% were satis- fied with the quality of intellec- tual life outside the classroom, and 35% vvith the amount of in- tellectual activities outside the classroom). Further, 59% of students said they wished people talked more about ideas outside of class, 69% said they wished people were into more diverse things like theater, politics, mu- sic, etc., 80% said they wished students cared more about learning and not just grades. Perhaps most disturbing, 34% of the students surveyed said that they had thought of trans- ferring from Union to a place with a more intellectual atmo- sphere in the social life. To try to respond to this desire for a more lively intellec- tual climate, $7000 was made available this year through the \Strengthening Teaching and Learning\ grant to fund projects which would enliven intellectual life on campus. Grants of up to $500 were offered to stu- dents and faculty members, in- dividuals or groups, who pro- posed activities which would stir some intellectual excitement on campus. Twenty-eight pro- posals were submitted and twenty were funded, covering such varied activities as a fly- fishing course, a Greek game show, a creative writing club, a journal of feminist philosophi- cal thought, a course on patent law, an alternative film club, etc. The twenty projects will take place during the winter and spring terms. So look for a more varied, ac- tive, vibrant intellectual life on campus the next two terms - and participate! Out of twenty programs~ there is likely to be at least one which stirs your cu- riosity and desire for intellectual involvement. Here is your chance to make a little more of your college experience and to make Union more the kind of place we want it to be. Listed below are the pro- grams which will take place during the winter and spring terms. If any of them interest you, contact the people indi- cated. 1. Have an idea? You can make a patent from it! (Semi- nars in patent law). Before entering the real world it is ad- vantageous for students, espe- cially those who see their future in high-tech or entertainment in- dustry, to be familiar with pro- cedures required to success- fully see an idea move from pa- per to the market place. A se- ries of seminars with patent at- torneys and professionals in en- gineering and medical technol- ogy fields will familiarize stu- dents with basic concepts of patent law and with modern mechanisms necessary to move a creative idea from an incep- tion to a market. Proposed by Prof. Moskovets, Assistant Pro- fessor, Physics/Engineering; Reinis Kanders, EEICS major, Timur Khromaev, Eco major; Eta Kappa Nu, the EE honor society; and the Economics Stu- dent Club. Contact Prof. Moskovets, X6053. 2. Union to Brooklyn: Visit- ing Russian New York. Any- one who has studied Russian or is studying Russian at present is invited to go on a one-day trip to Brighton Beach in Brooklyn, New York, which has one of the most active Russian communi- ties outside Russia. Participants will have an authentic Russian lunch, visit the boardwalk and neighborhood bookstores, movie theaters, kiosks, etc., and purchase food for a subsequent \Russian banquet\ to be held af- ter returning to Union. There will be one trip each term. Con- tact Prof. Jordan, Modem Lan- guage Department, X6499. 3. Museum Tour Series for Residents of Richmond. All residents of Richmond will be eligible to participate in a series of tours of museums, locally and in trips to New York City and Boston. Faculty will lead some of the tours. Proposed by Kathy Walter, Head RA. Richmond/North. continued on page 9

Campus Action Voices February: A Celebration of Color by Verdina Washington Contributing Writer February lst marks the first official day ofBlack History Month. To several, this month has no significant meaning, but to many others February is a time for African-Americans to relish in the achievements and accomplishments of our Black pioneers. Black History Month is a time to celebrate black culture, and most importantly to educate those who seem to ignore the history of the true founding fathers of this land. Being one of the few people of color here at Union, let me be the first to say that our presence will be felt, and our unity seen. In light ofthe celebration of Black History Month, ALAS (African and Latino Alliance of Students) will be sponsoring a number of functions and events. A culinary expose will be held in Upper Class Dining, and Colia Clark, a Black activist from the Capitol Region, will give a dramatic presentation on Black Revolution. There will also be a host of African vendors in the College Center for those to experience African culture. So now my question is: will Union celebrate, appreciate, and respect the heritage of its African-American colleagues? In the past it has always been ALAS, or African-American students, who have planned and hosted events for the month. A number of Caucasian students only go to these events if it is mandatory for class or extra credit. There is something very wrong with this philosophy since minorities are forced to learn about Western culture in order to receive an education in the United States. I had a very interesting conversation recently in which a Caucasian student complained about there not being enough promotion for Black History Month. This student also does not perceive February as being Black History Month because there is such a scarce representation of people of color on campus. This is nothing_ short of ignorance and a typical response relating back to my point about education and learning to be diverse. Instead of complaining, take a stand and do something about it. Too many people want things to be spoon-fed to them instead of taking the initiative. One does not have to be black in order to sponsor an event or become active in Black-related issues. One must want to learn more about those who make this world so diverse. The student body at Union must open their hearts and minds to a broader spectrum of color. Students of color at Union will not be ignored and will make it a point to enlighten those who seem to see color before the individual. In so doing, ALAS encourages all to share and participate in this experience and cel- ebrate the richness of Black History. To The College Community: The Admissions Office will host a \Town Meeting\ in the Multicultural Resource Room (Reamer Center, 3rd floor) on Monday, February 5th at 7:30 PM. Everyone interested in diversity at Union is urged to attend and discuss upcoming programs foc~sed on recruiting students- of-color for the Class of2000. Admissions representatives will be present to answer questions and take suggestions for Winter and Spring term programs. r ' ALTERNATIVE POWER ROCKS! so does 89.7 WRUC Schenectady! Trime·ster vs. Semester 1/22/96 To the Editor: In her OP-ED column last week, Raquel Millman voiced the concerns that I have heard repeatedly over the last few years: Union College's calendar needs revising. As Millman noted, there is little logic to a calendar where students rush through 10 weeks of class (plus MCA T, GRE, LSAT exams, job applications, internships, etc.) in the Fall and then stop for 7 weeks. In January, the long march begins. Classes will break for a week and then continue non-stop until early June. By the end of May not only will nearly every other college have ended, but many summer jobs wi1I be taken, and internships and summer travel programs abroad with other colleges will be well underway. Forget about taking a summer school class at the college near your hometown, since it will be half over by the time you leave Union College. The most alarming fact for graduating seniors may come when they find that employers often favor their competitors for jobs be- cause they can begin on June 1, two weeks before Union's seniors graduate. Students at our comparison schools take 4 courses over 14-15 weeks, begin in early September and end in mid-May, with days off for holidays and a couple of logical breaks, including a reading period before final exams. By contrast, Union crams 3 classes and labs into l 0 weeks, begins and ends with few other schools, allows for no holidays, and then breaks when everyone else is in session. Athletic events, including finals and semifinals, take place sometimes when Union is not in session or in the midst of final exams. Even if there are advantages, and some faculty and students stress those ad- vantages, it bears remembering that almost no comparable college operates under the trimester system. Those who adopted it along with Union in the '60s and '70s, have abandoned it or are now seriously considering doing so. Why? It makes cross\ registration with neighboring colleges impossible, it makes transferring credits difficult, it places students out of sync with their friends and siblings at other colleges, it is expensive, it doesn't allow for any time off during the term (religious holidays, Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Memorial Day, etc.), and it presents innu- merable problems with teaching. Students can help make a change. The Academic Affairs Council is currently studying the feasibility of moving to a semester system. The Chairperson of that committee is Professor Josef Schmee, GMI. Let him, and your student represen- tatives to the AAC, hear your views. We faculty members who favor a change to semesters are very willing to talk to any students about this issue. Teresa Meade Associate Professor, History meadet@gar. union.edu ------:- U Can Help Schenectady - ' Program Volunteers Sought for Boys and Girls Clubs Are you, or is a friend of yours, willing to share a skill that might improve a kid's chance to become a responsible adult? The Boys and Girls Clubs of Schenectady are seeking pro- gram volunteers for their six locations in Schenectady and Rotterdam. Current programs, and those that might spring from your own ideas, aU need volunteer staffing. Interactive social, intellectual, ~nd athletic skills development are among the potential program areas that foster a rewarding sense of accomplishment in both kids and volunteers. Please contact LouiseDi Fabbio, Directorof0perations(374-4714), or Bruce Macdonald, Program Committee Chair (395-6677 day, 372- 0725 night), if you'd like to help make a difference.

J ' ,! I Intellectual Life at Union ( cont'd) 4. TheFirstAnnmliGreekGame skills. Faculty and students tisement of dinner talks, or sion. Any students interested in Show. All ofthe fraternities and welcome! Contact Peter contact Jesse Karptkin, writing are welcome. sororities will join together to Tobiesson, Biology Department, X5948. Contact Alex Vallee, X7038. sponsor an intellectual competi- X6028, or come to first meet- 10. Student Visual Arts 14. Mini-conference: Genera- tion held at Chefs. Represen- ing, Thursday, Jan. 25, in Room Colloquia. Two colloquia will tion at the Crossroads. The tatives from the houses will S201 Science Center. be held to present the work of Campus Action Committee will compete for the title \Biggest 7. Documentary Film on Gay Union Visual Arts majors and hold a one-day mini-conference Greek Geekofthe Year.'' Spon- and Lesbian College Student Art History majors. Proposed on activism at campuses in the sored by' the Inter-Fraternity Life. Students interested in film by Louisa Matthew and Char- Capital District. Council i11 conjunction with and in gay/lesbian issues are irt,.. lotte Eyerman, Visual Arts Paul Leob, author of Generaaon Pan-Hel 'and the Chet's Com- vited t0 help with the making of Department. Watch for an- at the Crossroad'i: apathy and mittee. ' 5. PbiJ:om-athean Society Book Discussions. The Philomathean Society is already well known for its Friday de- bates at 7:29 in Milano Lounge, Hale House. With the PEW grant, the society will add a se- ries of readin.gs and discussions of books. Meetings are open to the whole .campus - look for advertising around campus. Contact Sam Cousins, 3 7 4- 3239. 6. The Biology, Physics and Literature .of Fly Fishing. An informal introdttetion to one of the most challenging and aes- thetic lifetime activities one can imagine - fly fishing. During the winter, participants willleam about the aquatic insects that trout and other .fish eat and learn to tie their feathered imitations (the \fly\), learn about rods and how to build bamboo fly rods, practice casting, and read some of the extensive literature on fly fishing. In tl1e spring, seminar members will go on afternoon and weekend trips to local streams and lakes to test their a documentary on the life of gay nouncements. Action on the American Campus and lesbian students at campuses ll. Alternative Film Society. will be the guest speaker. Work- in the Capital District. TI1is is Every other Tuesday evening, shops will look at commm1ity ser- an opportunity for students to the society will present inde- vice, environmental, social jus- learn about film-making and to pendent and foreign films sel- tice, and multicultural issues, coa- produce a documentary which dom seen in mainstream the- lition building across groups. can be used for educational pur- aters. Discussion will folh:.1w. Students from area campuses will poses on campuses in years to Look for the lineup of films to attend. Contact Virdinia Wash- come. Contact Meredith Miller, be presented. Contact David ington. X6963. B 1357 Coscia, X7002. 15. Social Issues Dinner Dis- ox .. 8. Chines.e Gastro-Cultura:l 12. Evening in Ancient cussion Groups. Groups of fif- Awareness. A group made up of students in Chinese 10, sev- eral professors who teach Chi- nese or have led terms abroad to China, and a host will have a home-cooked authentic Chinese meal in the home of a Chinese . Drama. Groups of students teen students and faculty mem- and faculty members will put bers will meet for dinner in the on five informal productions Social Science lounge to watch of Ancient Greek drama. short videos and -discuss various Most productions will be dra- social problems. Six meetings matic readings - no memo- will be held across the two rizing of lines. TI1ere will be terms. immigrant, with conversation in rehearsal, but the goal is to Dinners are open to all; flyers ad- Chinese, and discussion of Cl1i- have fun and involve as many vertising each topic will be dis- nese customs. Sponsored by John Spinelli, Electrical Engineering Depart- ment. 9. Smith House Student-Fac- ulty Dinner Series. Smith House residents will host a se- ries of dinners at which invited faculty and students will dis- cuss topics of general interest. Dinners are open to all students and faculty. Look for adver- people as possible. You can tributed. Contact Linda Relyea, be an actor or work on cos- Sociology Department, X6292. tumes, masks and props. An 16. History Club. A club will organizational meeting will be be fonned for those interested in held Tuesday 6 Feb. at 7 p.m. history and in topics of current in College Centre 203. For importance. Three times each more infonnation contact Beth term, a historian will give a talk McGaughan, 393-9859. related to an issue of current im- 13. Creative Writing Club. portance and interest, e.g., a his- Participants will share their torian speaking on the Civil Rights work and serve as a support Movement to provide historical group for criticism and revi- context :for the \Million Man March.'' Talks will be open to the college community. Contact Mark Walker, History Depart- ment, X6994. 17. Theater Series for Webster House Residents. All residents of Webster House will be invited to participate in a se- ries of perfonnances at local the- aters, followed by faculty-led discussions. Proposed by Celica Mohammed, RA, Webster House. 18. Student-Faculty Dinners. To the successful Ludlow House student-faculty dinner program will be extended to all students in two dinners each term, served in a formal setting, at which faculty and students can dine together and have in- formal discussion. Sponsored by Erica DeCarlo and Christo- pher Jones for Ludlow House, Contact Erica DeCarlo, X6833. 19. Journal of Feminist Philo- sophical Thought. An interdis- ciplinary journal publishing stu- dent writing on feminist ideas. All students are invited to sub- mit papers. Contact Alison Hirschman, X5572. 20. Talk Shows in Contem- porary America: An Informal Seminar. A small group of stu- dents and faculty will meet monthly to watch, read about, and discuss the phenomenon of talk shows in contemporary cul- ture. In the spring term, the group will go to New York City to the Museum of Television and Radio. . . . · OP-ED . · . · AMERICA Good or Bad? by Ben Fox When I was about seven years old, I learne~ in regards to my country, to either \love it or leave it.\ Right from the start, I want to say I do love my country and it would take extraordinary circum- stances for me to ever contemplate leaving it. :But having been brought up to take great pride in my country, Ibave also developed the high expectations which of- ten accompany pride. One such expectation I hold is that tliy Com- mander in Chiefbe my role model, but unfortunately, I do not hold our current pre~id<mt in such high esteem as his predecessors. Our country js heading in the wrong direction and it is my opinion that one of tl1e chief responsibilities of our president is to assess where we are as a country, where we should be as a country, and tell us how to get back o11 track. President Clinton has 110 clue where we are, where we should be and consequently what to do. Does he have a plan to get us on track? Of course not! How can we expect him to deal with the problems facing our country when he can't ev.en decide what tie to wear for·the &tate of the Union without Hillary's permission. This country, and the world for that matter, needs leadership, and Clinton is not providing enough of it. This country needs a leader with the loyalty ofWash- iugton, the integrity ofF.D.R, and the pride and foresight that Lin- coln showed in keeping together the Union. What talents does Clinton offer? He can play Saxo- phone on the Simpsons and seems to interview once an hour on MTV. Don;tyou have a coun- try to run? Did you run out of problems to solve? h1 tenns of foreign policy, he's.done nothing except endanger the lives of American troops in places where America has little to no interest. Domestically, his shortcomings are too long to list. So where do I stand? I stand behind any of the Republican candidates running for office i11 1996 (except for Buchanan for Anti-Semitic re- marks he has made, and Phil Gramm because he's a putz who looks and sounds like Elt'nor Fudd). Otherthanthose two, Dole or Forbes would be great choices. I guess I will vote for anyone who is intelligent, has good character, is well respected, .and has a little sack. Take a stand Bill. I don't care what the issue is, just prove to people that you deserve to hold that office which I so highly covet. And above all, remind me how bad I want to hold your of- fice someday. ' . Is The Administration Against Us? The Union College Pep Band formed to perform at the school's sporting events, in an effort to promote school spirit and add a fun component to games: music. The Band organized to play at last Friday's hockey game against RPI, our school's fiercest rivals. Because RPI was expected to bring a large band of their own, we felt it was appropriate to match them in sound, in the nameof fair play and competition. However, as our small group set up instruments and stands in a corner by the DJ, a woman .(possibly the direc- tor of Achilles Rink, I'm not sure) came up to us, furiously demanding that we had no right to play there because we had not reserved those seats a few weeks in advance. What amazes me is this: we had no RIGHT to play at our own school's game, at our own school! The woman said that the RPI players had paid for and reserved their seats in advance, and since we didn't, it would not be fair to RPI., s band. Additionally, we were told we'd be removed from the Rink by se- curity if we tried playing. (We were allowed to play a theme af- ter the first period.) Ignoring the fact that the seats we occupied were not taken by anyone else, the DJ offered to alternate his music with ours and help us out. In the end, it all boils down to this: we were not being \fair\ to RPI. Fair?! Since this game was at Union, their band should have not been allowed to play, if anyone's, as they could be seen as \infringing on our turf.)' What astonishes me is that this woman told an organization whose sole purpose was to arouse positive enthusiasm for Union's Skating Dutchmen was told to leave the building because of reserved seat- ing priviledges. It's bad enough our sound could not compare to the noise blasted by RPI, but at least there would have been some support from Union's side. While security let many pa- trons through the gates with oranges, they refused to allow musicians to make music. Thus, the school seems willing to permit organes to be tossed onto the ice, while the Pep Band gets tossed from celebrating the fun and competition of a hockey game. The feeling around cam- pus that Union students are apa- thetic is justified, in my mind. When the school represses stu- dents who wish to display posi- tive school spirit, how can any- one expect these students to care about Union? I can't tell you how heartwarming it is to know that our hockey rink \officials\ are more concerned with profit- making and pleasing other insti- tutions than they are about strengthening the pride both stu- dents and the community SHOULD be having for Union. by Lawrence Paska '97 Pep Band Member

From Dusk Till Dawn:. The New Bad Boys of Cinema Create a Horror Road Picture \From Dusk Till Dawn.\ Starring Han•ey Keitel, George Clooney, Quentin Tarantino, Juliette Lewis, Cheech Marin. Directed by Robert Rodriguez. Rated R, Dimension Films. Rating: **J/2 (~ut of four) Reportedly, From Dusk Till Dawn was the first script Quentin Tarantino wrote back in his video salesclerk days. It was written ex- pressly as a vehicle for a friend's technical company, so when the vampires appear towards the end of the film, the story takes the backseat to the special effects. In the spirit of previous Tarantino works, it's dark; mean, and sinis- ter in its wit. Clooney (offering little depth but plenty of fun) and Tarantino (he's actually ACTING!) are brothers on the run who, in the opening scene, hold up a conve- nience store; but Tarantino's char- acter is a paranoid psychotic, and he ends up shooting the clerk and a sheriff, blowing up the store before the getaway. This entire scene is pure Tarantino: snappy and sharp dialogue, the bickering between the bad guy partners ... if only the rest ofthe story unfolded in this way. Together with a hos- tage, they rent a motel room and decide to flee to Mexic:J, where they can hand over some stolen goods to \the boss\ and run free. It is at the hotel where they meet up with Keitel, a preacher who lost his faith, and his two children (Lewis, as the daughter, acts younger than her age and is cred- ible). Using Keitel's trailer to get across the border, the two bad guys are told to meet their agent at a sleazy truck driver's bar South of the Border - a place that, inci- dentally, is run by vampires. Tarantino's script is full of fast- paced verbal exchanges and plenty ofsick humor, but it also drags, and the premise of five people traveling by trailer to Mexico becomes a bit boring af- ter a while. Just when you want the action to go somewhere, it does - into really obscure terri- tory. If you did not know of the film's premise before, you might think From Dusk Till Dawn is the most imaginative piece of scriptwriting to come along in years. But knowing the eventual tum of events, it's easy to see that once the vampires begin their bloodsucking activities, the film loses all its bite. Gore replaces !he \bond\ forming between the villains and the family. Eventu- ally, it's·akill-or-be-killed-finish set in a bar, with cheap effects and plenty .of blood to satisfY fans of the genre. But what genre are we talking about? Horror-lovers will find the first hour very dull, and followers GfTarantino may won- der what kind of writer's block he was having halfway through. The film is a good idea gone wrong. Rodriguez's editing is ter- rific, much as it was in his previ- ous two films (El Mariachi and Desperado). He knows how to make the most of the visuals, and his direction captures the dusty shades of the desert, although one can't help but know the ac- tion in the bar is taking place on a soundstage, and not in a confined room in the middle of the desert. Keitel, who receives top billing, actually is a supporting player to Clooney, a fine actor who has a strong screen presence. On the other hand, Cheech Marin, play- ing three separate roles, has two roles too many. Both filmmakers also use similar actors in their films (Keitel appears in Tarantino films; Marin and actress Salma Hayek, as a vampire showgirl, in Rodriguez's works). Perhaps Pulp Fiction was a fluke, indeed. Since that hit, Tarantino has starred in or di- rected garbage (Destiny Turns on the Radio, Four Rooms). He needs a creative overhaul; a shame, considering that two top independent directors working together couldn't pull something more ... classic off. HAROLD LOHNER .RECE'NT PRINTS AND I~RAWINGS JANUARY 29- MARCH I, 1996 ARTIST'S RECEPTION TUESDAY, JANUARY 30, 1996, 4-6 PM Harold Lohner, untitled, 1995 UNION COLLEGE ARTS ATRIUM OPEN DAILY 9AM ... 6PM '. ' Arts· & ·Entertain'ment ·. '· Six D·egrees of Separation by Shaheen Mahmud and Raquel Mintah Six Degrees of Separation is best known as the movie which starred Will Smith and Stockard Channing, but before, the film was the play, written by John Guare, which ran at Lincoln Center in New · . York City for eight months. The play is coming to Union, student- directed, acted, and produced. Director Fred Ulrich '98 bought a copy of the script and knew from that moment that he had to direct . it. It has been in the making now for three years. The three main characters are Ouisa Kittridge (played by Amy Rilling), FlrurKittridge · (played by John Poor) and Paul (played by Carey Miller). The play is similar to the movie, except for a few deviations from the script. According to Ulrich, the actors in the play are veey differ- ent from those in the film. \Here the actors are more down.ro earth. Because they are younger, they give a more intimate feel to the audience that you don't get on the film screen,\ He also expressed the importance of bringing the play to this campus \ because it deals with racial as well as sexual relations, something this campus · needs to see.\ The play ex;.presses societal divisions between upper-class citi- zens in New York City and a young African-American male trying to find his place in the world. It also describes how we are all separated by six people, and how Paul, the main character, uses this connec- tion to find his way into the 5th Avenue, ultra-rich, white society, which he assumes is desirable. The irony brought forth by the play is how all the white characters are depicted as selfish. Throughout · ·the whole play, they are worried about how Paul could have nega- tively affected them instead of how they might be able to help this yom1g man who just wants to fit in. Carey Miller '98, who plays one of the main characters, feels his role as Paul is a very challenging part to play. \It is a chance to explore acting in a seriousrole while allowing me to test my capabili- ties.\ He also expressed the importance of bringing this play to Union's campus because \some people here need to see how un- grateful they really are. Hopefully the play will open their eyes to let them see what they really have. TI1e play also brings to light some aspects of homosexuality that people are not used to seeing.\ Carey says the hardest part was the scene where he had to kiss another man. \People might look at me differently after they see that, but it's all apart of acting, maybe it might help homosexual relations on this campus.\ Carey also complimented the rest of the cast as fitting for their roles and expressed how he learned a lot from working with Ulrich. \It's hard to take orders from someone your age, but Fred is very talented and likes to get the job done.\ The play opens on February 15th and will run through the 17th in the Yulman TI1eater. Tickets are $3.00 with a studentiD. Local Arts Calendar This Week Troy Chromatic Concerts proudly presents The Empire as partofits 99th season atthe Troy Savings Bank llY.I.I.l~.:u...,Hall, located at the comer ofSecond and State in Troy, tonight at 8 PM. General admission tickets available for $20; students for $10 by calling Troy I'AllVJ..uuu·..., Concerts at 273-4122 or the Troy Savings Bank !LYU..L.:).I.'-' Hall Box Office at273-0038. ,February 3 Arturo Sandoval and The Latin Train will perfonn at Savings Bank Music Hall at 8 PM. This concert kicks Winter/Spring Jazz at the Music Hall series which Ill .................. ~ appearances by Jimmy Smith and Damn on Satur;. February 17. Theseriesrunsuntihnid-May. Reserved tickets for all the jazz series concerts are $22 and may purchased by contacting the Troy Savings Bank: Music Box Office at 273-0038 or any Ticketmaster outlet. Mr. Sandoval will also appear at Barnes & Noble, 20 olfRoad, Albany, at 3 PM on Saturday to demonstrate discuss his approach to Latin jazz performance and I\AIX.liiJ\..I.:lU.llVJJ.. This event is free and open to the public. ednesday, February 7 On its frrst ever U.S. tour, the 80-member Veriovka National Dance Company will make a stop at Empire Center at The Egg for a 7:30PM perfonnance. group presents the best specimens offolkmusical art dance from all over the Ukraine. Ticket~ for this ,...,...-1r\' 1 ''-' ll.UUU\\-' are $25 for adults, $22 for seniors and $15 for 12 and under. For further infonnation and reserva- JW.VJ.Jl\· contact the Etnpire Center at The Egg Box Office at -1845.

Arts & Eiltertainrilent ··· · · FILM FO·RUM - Th.e Robert Roy Honorary Memorial Awards (The Robbies) by Robert Roy Arts Columnist The other day I was sitting in the College Center, feeling rather nauseous after eating lunch at Upperclass, when I met up with Larry, the Arts Editor of the Concordy, and Yolanda, my girl- friend of r.even months. Larry seemed really upset because someone asked him when he was coming out with his 1995 Oscar picks. I offered to do the list for him, but as I sit here writing, I can see why he was so upset. Last year's films were really bad-· how could anyone come up with a Best Picture contender to compete with the one you know is going to win, Tommy Boy? Well, relax, folks, I created my own awards ceremony for you: The Robbies. Trust my choices, and you'll see just fixed the Oscars really are. Look out, Academy: here comes my lunch! Best Actor: TI1e talking pig in Babe. Think about it: he didn't argue with the director, he didn't require a trailer, he never com- plained about re-takes, and he worked for peanuts. He's any · filmmaker's dream, if you ask me! Best Actress: Patrick Swayze in To Wong Foo, Thanks For Ev- erything, Julie Newmar. lie looked so believable in drag, I am ashamed to admit I ahnost fell in love with him. He's the only guy I know who can hold hi sown in a dress -you GO, girl! ·Best Disney Animated :Musical: ... goes to, Surprise!, the only Disney animated musical ofl995, Pocahonla\'. How could they top the songs, story, emotion, and grosses of The Lion King? With a talking tree and an ever bigger Burger King tie-in. But, hey, you have to admit the giveaways at BK this year weren't as cheap as last year's! BestDateFilm: Seven. Yolanda and I saw this on campus a few weeks ago to celebrate ow sev- enth month anniversary (Seven ... seventh- get it?!), and let me tell you, no other film released last year could guarantee odds thatyoudove affair would end so suddenly. When I shouted ap- plause when the murder for ''lust\ came on screen, Yolanda beat me senseless with her bag of popcorn and vowed never to see me in public again. Of course, ifl' d just kept my mouth shut, when that guy representing \sloth\ ap- peared and shocked the living daylights out ofthe audience, she would have held me tighter and my night would have been set! I mean, honestly, when do roman- tic comedies with Billy Crystal in the lead set off sparks for you and your date? Best-Looking Hairstyle: Rob- ert De Niro's 'do in Casino. How can anyone get their hair to look that smooth slicked-back? I tried the same thing at home last week, and my style looked like a rejected hairpiece for Ace Ventura. Maybe I should stop washing with tar. Best Film to Watch with Your Eyes Closed: Congo. It's better that way: you can imagine a much better adaptation of the Michael Critchton book while you hear all the clumsy dialogue of the movie. Besides, nothing really happens in the film. People die left and right by killer apes, but the two leads never once try to have sex with each other. Best Film to Watch with Your Eyes Opel,!: Species. Co-star and Performing Arts UNION Upcoming Events- Winter 1996 ;· St. Cecilia Orchestra, Peter Bay, Conductor rial Chapel Saturday, February 10 Memo- 8:00PM Union College Orchestra and ChoirConcert(with choirs Sunday,February 11 Memorial Chapel from WPI, Wells, Regis and Union Colleges), 3:00PM Hugh Allen Wilson, Conductor $1 A WASH, 5TH WASH FREE FREE DRYING TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS 8AMT03PM SEE STORE FOR DEiAILS&ADDIIIONAL SAVINGS mutant human Natasha Henridge spends almost the entire film run- ning around naked trying to copu- late with male humans to create a new super-species! This one gen- erates more male interest than Showgirls could hope to offer, and the sex scene in the pool here beats the one in Showgir/s 1 0 : 1! Best Movie Poster: The poster for Nixon. The one-sheet simply displays half of Anthony Hopkins' face, as Nixon, staring rightatyou. Wow! lfthatdoesn't give away the whole story and en- tice you to see the movie, what does?! Is this !lnother Oliver Stone conspiracy about the glut of advertising in the media? I bet so ... and Jimmy Carter's behind it. BestFilmto Watch with Free Refills ofPopcom and Soda: Heat. At nearly three hours, this film goes on forever and becomes more boring to watch than look- ing at paint dry. At least with the free refills, you can entertain your- self during the lulls by getting up and asking for more butter-fla- vored topping. Best Antonio Banderas Movie: Sorry, there is none. Try again next year. Best Director: Rob Reiner, for The American President. Meathead got Michael Douglas to do more \acting\ as our nation's Chief Executive for two hours than Bill Clinton has done for thre.e years as the real thing. Now that's entertainment! And now, for Best Picture: Ace Ventura: When Nature Calls. What, you cry in disbelief! No, Yolanda, it's not because I love Jim Carrey's hair more than you ... TI1is film had more action, suspense, comedy, romance, mu- sic~ direction, scriptwriters, pho- tographers, supporting actors, ac- tors, extras, extra actors, cars, planes, trucks, food, dancing, laugllter, tears, lines in foreign languages, and flatulence jokes than any other movie in 1995, ex- cept for Jury Duty (which is ineli- gible because Pauly Shore is not from this planet). How many other films gave us so much in the past year? Very few, indeed! Ace Ventura 2 did for the film indus- try what Forrest Gump did for stu- pidity: made it Dumb and Dumber! V ellinger String Quartet Will Perform at Union Courtesy of Public Relations TI1e V ellinger String Quartet will be performing a program of music by Haydn, Mendelssohn, Purcell and Britten on Friday, February 2 at 8 PM in Union College's Me- morial Chapel. On the program are Haydn's Quartet in B.flat Mqjor, Opus 71, No. 1, Mendelssohn's Quartet in Ejlat Major, Opus 12, Purcell's Fantasias (a selection), and Britten's Quartet No.2, Opus 36. The Vellinger String Quartet, fonned in 1991, first came to the attention of the music world when they were awarded First Prize in the London h1ternational String Quartet Competition in April1994. Member of the Vellinger have all been regular participants at WRUC 89.7 fm 75yrs of music England's noted chamber music festival in Prussia Cove. For the 1995-96 season, the Vellinger Quartet is touring the United States, Europe, and Japan. Per- formances in the United States will include appearances in New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles, as well as at major colleges and chamber music festivals. They will also participate in the 1996 Kuhmo Chamber Music Festival, and have been invited to perform at the Edinburgh Festival and at Aiulras Schiff's festival in Aus- tria. Tickets are $12 ($6 for students) and are available from the Schenectady Museum, 382-7890, or at the door at 7 PM. For more infonnation, please call372-3651. Wanted!!! Individuals, Student Organizations to promote SPRING BREAK. Earn MONY and FREE TRIPS. CALL INTER CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1-800-327-6013 HTI'P:// WWW.ICPT.COM

U-MED by David Moresi Club President U-Med is a club which con- sists of approximately 45 ac- tive members. We provide emergency medical care at all major col- lege sport- ing events and activi- ties includ- ing men's a n d women's rugby and ice hockey. This past year it's membership took on the extra responsibility of providing cov- erage for men's high school ice hockey games. Each event which it covers is attended by anywhere between 2 to 4 members, one of whom is a New York State certified Emergency Medical Techni- cian (EMT). U-Medalso of- fers training in CPR and first aid to the en- tirecol- 1 e g e com- munity through- out the year. F o r those w h 0 are in- t e r - estedin furthering their training, the club offers to students the option to attend an EMT class which is held at Schenectady County Community College in January. U·Med is proud to own it's own set of medica:! equipment. Members learn to recognize medical emergen- cies·and help EMT's in treat- ing patients. To join U-Med one need not possess any prior training or knowledge of the emergency medical field. The club presents to you the op- tion of acquiring as much training as you feel comfort- able with. U-Med members provide a very important ser- vice to the college community. The field of emergency medi- cine is fun, exciting and inter- esting. If you are interested in joining U-Med or have any questions about upcoming CPR, First Aid, or EMT train- ing courses, please feel free to contact Dave Moresi at 388-5520, Meg Furman at 388-5833, or Seth Cahmi at 388-5691. The ''Big\ Men and Women on Campus ~y .Jesse Karotkin Club President Think again before you say that \there's nothing to do in Schenectady.\ Just a few miles away, on every side of campus, children are waiting, in hopes that they will soon be matched up with a big brother or sister. The seventy or so Union students currently serv- ing as \bigs provide an in- valuable service to local children and theirfamilies. Few programs allow for the high degree of personal interaction that Big Brothers/ Big Sisters offers. As a big brother or sister one has the po- tential to affect a child.' s life forever. Aside from the individual experi- ences, studies have shown that children matched with a big brother or sister tend to do better in school and have greater self- esteem. For me, being a big brother has been one the high- lights of my time at Union. I'm sure that the memories I have of time spent with my little brother will stand out in my memory for years to come. Kimberly Ortman, a Union College Big Sister, has been matched with «Stacey\ for almost one and a half years. They spend several hours together each week going to the movies, eating outfor dinner, doing arts and crafts, or just hanging out and talk- ing. Visiting with Kim is a great opportunity for eleven year-old Stacey to get out of her house and away from her six siblings. Kim de\ scribes the program as a \pretty large commitment.\ Serving as a Big involves spending several hours each week with your little brother or sister. Through their time together, Kim has built a level of trust with Stacey. Accord- ing to Kim, \She understands that if I can't do something :-vith her one week, I'll make it up, and more.\ Despite tile serious com- mitment, big brothers and big sisters know how rewarding their work can be. It really is fun spending an afternoon with a child, teaching them to ride a bicycle, building a model, or being the one to hear about their day at school. As time passes and the relationsilip grows there- wards become even greater. Kim relates that now,. \it's gotten more enjoyable as I've come to know her. There's not as much effort needed to make a connec- tion or have a good time.\ Big Brothers/ Big Sisters is always looking for more vol- unteers. There is especially a demand for men. The com- mitment is one which will pay off for both you and the child who currently waits. · Advertise your club in C!Innrurnu!! ...., Womyn's·Union by Kim Ortman Club President Contrary to what many may believe,. members of the Womyn's Union have not yet burned a bra. In fact, the tone ofthe dub has been quite mild considering its traditionally radical reputation. The Union chapter seems to cater to a much more conservative bunch, aHhough there is al- ways room for chan,ge .. Currently, the Womyn's Union has been working on several different projects. As you may recall, we are trying to modify our school's motto. Last term petitions were cir- culated around the campus, and an estimated five hundred signatures were collected. We have encountered many ad- ministrative obstacles while attempting this simple change, but then again, the steps one takes to changing a motto is not found in the student hand- book The project is presently in a stand-still while we en- tertain the alumni with our proposal, however, we will inform the members of Union College once we know what comes next. The Womyn's O:nion has begun holding infon.nal gath- erings, inviting other mem- bers from the Union commu- nity to discuss issues affet;t- ing women's status. Hope- fully more educational events will be organized and partici- pation will grow; we invite anyone who has ideas to come share them with us. As for upcoming events, we will be sponsoring Paula Kamen to speak on February 13. Ms. Kamen, anauthor and feminist; has written Feminist Fatale, addressing the \twenty-something\ popula- tion. Minnie Bruce Pratt is scheduled to speak on Febtu- ary 6. The Women's Com- mission along with the Womyn's Union, Peer Fascillitators, and UBGLAD will sponsor this event. Although the Womyn's Union remains fairly small, we are enthusiastic about our ac- complishments thus far, and activities to come. We are al- ways open for new ideas, and invite anyone to our meetings which are generally held on Monday evenings in the Women's Center (CC302)- men are welcome as well! DANCE CHOREOGRAPHY AT UNION by Kira M. Sobczak Club President There is a ballet class on Thursday nights from 7:30 to 9 p.m. But this is not a conventional classical ballet class. This is my choreography class. Not too many students know any- thing about this and there aren't very many of us in it. But there we are every Thursday night We, who take this class, are, each of us, required to choreograph a dance for whatever music we choose. Any style can be used and anyone can be in the dance. For the most part, the choreographer is the per- former. Some people work together and some go solo. The scheduled performance of the finished products can be seen during Steinmetz Symposium in the Spring, incidentally. So, why do we do it? Ms. Myers asked us all tonight what it was that being a choreographer meant to each of us indi- vidually. Obviously, there has to be something meaningful as- sociated with this extra-curricular activity that nobody forces us to do and we don't get academic credit for it. It's willful on our part and it takes time and motivation. Everyone had their own answers to the question. I started to say that being a choreographer is the same as being a painter. A painter creates a picture and hangs it on a wall for people to leak at, Tight? However, more importantly, a painter signs his or her name on the painting and says, \I did this. I created this. It came from me.\ That's what I'm essentially doing with this class and this dance. It's about being an artist and having people look at you and what you've done. But it is more than even that. It's what I am behind the typical Union College student, who goes to classes, does a lot of work, and then goes out on the weekends. Anyways, I thought it would be worthwhile to let people know about this class. So I did. I have to mention that Stefani Fruchtman and I are currently creating together, because it just wouldn't be right to write this and not mention that.

Union Squanders Valuable Resources by Conor McKenzie Features Writer \Damn Pm 100% completely [expletive deleted]!\ I said to my roommate Charlie as I came back from another delicious and nour- ishingmeal at West. Nothing like some rigid pancakes and fake syrup to bring out those revela- tions of your ow11 imminent doom. Before I even reached Fox, I knew that there was no way I was going t0 get my work done. Enter the Editor in Chief: as I rounded the comer of Fox, :1 ran right in to Evan. \What's Up, Evan?'' I greet him as I pray to myself\Piease don't remember I owe you an article, please, please.\ He retums my greeting, and I begin to walk past him- my hopes rise, and then come crashing down. \Gonna get your column in today?\ \Yup I'll bring it over later.\ I needed inspiration, so off to the Nott Memorial. One cannot simply sit in the Nott memorial if one wants to write a column as fine as mine. I needed to nod off and enter a dream state. The ob- vious solution: whip out the old genetics textbook and start read- ing. Success! In no time I was day-dreaming. Unfortunately, I couldn't write an article about girls, so I had to try a new strat- egy. My last ditch effort; go down- stairs and take a seat on the finest thrane on campus. I chose the comer stall and looked around. \Damn this stall is big, what underutilized space,\ I thought. \What a waste to seat just one person in here, why not four or five more? I could throw a party--or even a rave in here. I could put the DJ over there, a bar aver there, the dance floor right there ... But then I thought about how I still would be wasting space, since I couldn't have par- ties all the time. Why not found a fraternity, and live here ... the brothers .ofNott. Then it hit me. I jumped up and let out a wild \Yawp\ (I think I heard somebody run out of the bathroom). I just thought of this week's column topic. I could write my article about wasted space. I flushed my ideas of reno- vating the Nott Bathroom right dow.n the proverbial toilet. What a relief, it's so much easier to write about wasted space than it is to do something about it. When I thought about wasted space, the next thing I thought of was our school's curling rink. Yes, you heard me right, our school has a rink, right under our hockey rink, intended fnr the sole purpose of curling. \What's curl- ing?\ you ask. Well, my friend, curling is a sport played mostly in the mid-west and in Canada. The object is to throw a mam- moth sized puck down the ice, while two others try to sweep the ice in froq.t of it, in order to guide it on top of the designated tar- get-what a cool sport! It's absolutely unbelievable, our school was using a perfectly good curling rink to store drama props, old desks, and canoes. TI1e crew team recently cleaned it out 13 to make room to temporarily store their rowing shells, which is the only reason I was let in on this secret. Why the hell don't we use this wonderful curling rink that al- ready exists? If we poured some ice and funded a team, I'd join in a second. Seriously, we could be co-ed, we could buy team jack- ets, and fuzzy hats with pompoms. Not only would it be fun for existing students to go slide a few pucks with friends, but we could attract some cool kids to Union. Think of the possibili- ties, \Union: A top notch liberal arts & engineering institution which happens to sponsor one of the only four curling clubs in the United States.\ Watch out Amherst, Union would soon dominate US News and World Report's rankings. I know I'm right, just wait a year for the proof. I even wrote a little poem to drive my point into the garage: To Union's powers that be, I plead. You've al,ready got a captain to lead. I could round up a team. TI1e fans would soon scream, and Union would be the hippest place in the Nation. Trade the Sandbox for a Porsche and a Mid- Town Apartment by Bertwok Oong Fountain of Knowledge Do you remember when you were younger, perhaps .in the fifth grade or something, and you first heard your parents reminiscing about college? It seemed so unreal at the time, so strangely surreal; I mean, what fifth-grader can simultaneously conceive of their parents being in college and really understand what college is? I mean, what fifth-grader can even picture high school? I mean, well-you know what I mean. What I mean is that we can remember being young, playing in the sandbox with ice cream stains on our Oshkosh b'gosh's, a time when mom and dad seemed so old and worldly; a time when the extent of our con- cerns was the how to skip school the next day. Now here we stand, divided into little con- glomerates and spread across the country. We are in the last stages of our schooling. In two or three years (for most of us), we become part of the world, but we will neither feel nor ap- pear worldly to anyone ... except maybe some random kid in a sandbox. This little idea, this so- young-yet-so-old paradox which we are living in right now naturally doesn't bother me. Yet I feel compelled to discuss it because I was a freshman once, too. There seems to be a slight misconception floating in the breeze of public opinion-that life ends with your college di- ploma. I suspect that this is the precursor to the \I must hold on to my youth\ syndrome experi- enced by millions of confused middle-aged people. I don't really want to fall prey to either misconception or confusion, so I continue. Let's cast aside the whole trouble- some idea that diploma equals knowledge. Yo_u probably know as well as I do that we are likely going to fall flat on our faces before any of us fly be- cause we aren't worried about that, really. We're too intelli- gent. We aren't afraid of using what we know, of learning the ropes at some power-exec-job. Rather, we worry about the lo- gistics of creature comforts: where will I live? What will I do? How will I meet people? The answers, of course, are as simple as they are unknown. However, since we currently have our living situations and locations picked for us, and our schedule mostly laid out for us, they seem like the void. Terri- fying. I have to decide where to go and all that!? Ah, yes. And I almost forgot the best one: how ever will I meet people? Now I have two thou- saud people my age to be around, when I graduate I'll be working with 200 lb-Martha- the-handmaid. I admit it seems bleak. I admit that this ques- tion has crossed my mind once or twice in the darkest hours of relationships, or perhaps in the thought that so many of the mar- ried couples I know met in col- lege. Pressure! Meet someone and marry' em! You're a jun- ior? I hope you've got your prospects all set. .. yeah right. Or is it. I honestly don't know. There's always grad school...Ok, ok. I need to be serious. I could suggest you take comfort in the fact that your parents made it, but I doubt that would be too comforting. Try this: take comfort in the fact that you've got the skills, that your youth won't disappear the day you graduate, that there will be millions of other same- age and same-scenario kids, and that if you really think about it, you know exactly what you will do. You'll move to a city, say Boston or New York. Get an apartment. You'll work. You'll earn fat cash. Weekends off. New car. Parties, though not as many as Union can offer. And when all else fails, I remind my- self that things have gotten bet- ter year after year, and will likely continue to do so. Oh, and try not to think about kids. You know ... kids which could be yours. At this juncture, it's just a bad idea. Union to Welcome Minnie Bruce Pratt On Tuesday, February 6, several groups on campus will welcome poet, essayist, and les- bian activist Minnie Bruce Pratt to Union. Ms. Pratt will conduct a workshop on sexuality, sexual identity, and the college environment . from 2-4 p.m. in College Center Room 305. She will conclude her visit to Union with a reading of her poetry and prose in the Nott Memorial from 8 until9:30. These events are open to all students, faculty, and staff. The visit will be · sponsored by The Union College Women's Commission, the English Department, Women's Studies Department, the Office of Multicultural Affairs, the Peer Facilitators, and the Womyn's Union. Ms. Pratt is not only a noted writer and au- thor of three books of poetry and collections of essays, but she is also an educator and political activist with a \short version\ resume that in- cludes numerous pagC;s of sig~ificant accom- plishments. All are welcome to participate in what will be an informative and very interest- ing set of events at Union.

Features '<Ulye caontorbiettl'StS February 1, 19~6 Page 14 A Different Light on the Road Woman in. the Mirror: by Peter Sorensen Features Editor On Saturday, the 27th of January at 4:31 pm I got into a 16-year-old, yellow Volvo coupe, complete with sunroof, a dent on the passenger side and broken windshield-wiper squirter. I laughed at the thought that my car might actually have more class than I do. It definitely has more attitude; some days it refuses to start. Saturday was no such day, and I left. Liz Phair resounding through me at a ridiculous volume, the topic of her song a ridiculous reflection. I quote, \I woke up alarmed, I didn't know where I was at first, just that I woke up in your arms, and almost immediately I felt sorry 'cause I didn't think this would happen again ... \ Me neither, right? It feels good to get away, to forget and remember who I am and what 1 do and what I pretend I don't do. It feels goodtobe doing 140 kmh in a rainstorm, periodically peeking down. at my lap be- cause I'm trying to sketch out a poem as I drive. My car is water-tight; I am dry. It feels good that cherub rock Is now deafening me. But I'm all sorts of tired. Bed would feel so sweet right now. I have picked my path, and I must walk it. Or drive it. Destination in 2 more hours, 1 3/4 if I pick it up a bit. 160 might be risking it, tho. My radar de- tector is a bit antiquated. I kid you not. As I passed Albany Airport, the thing was picking up blips from a passing plane. 3 second intervals-! counted. Smokey would have me in a second. \Do you know why I pulled you over, son?\ \No. :q_o-yon want a donut?\ I MUSIC! MUSIC! ana more MUSIC! Live ShoWS Justin! CD & TAPE RANCID- HOOTIE PEARL JAM~ TORI LIVE- ETHERIDGE BUSH- RAMONES PORNO FOR PYROS PHISH-DEAD DAVEMATIHEWS BJORK- BEASTIES and lots more ... don't need another ticket. Still have one to contest in Vermont, and plenty more skiing to do. 120 will still get me there. I think I'm one of the few who use the metric system regularly. It started with the first ticket 1 ever contested. I figured if I spoke in metric, I'd confuse the judge and he might let me go. It worked. I converted. \And almost im- mediately I felt sorry' cause I didn't think this would happen again ... \ Definitely a cool song. I can't print the next line, for decency's sake. No big loss, y'all can figure it if you want to. Life is easy like that. I cross the border and feel a flood of thoughts coming on. Rainy nights do that to me. Not that I mind-rainy nights and I have been through a lot of shit. I have to remember this. Revival-the ·song and my mood-thanks Allman Bros. I have cracked a smile. A rainy night memory: I biked across town at 12:15 am to my girlfriends house. School night, no big deal. Work canal- ways wait. And I had a reason, too. I mean a serious reason. We moved her stuff out of her mom's house and across the street to her godmother's house. Fell asleep in her basement by 3. I woke and rode to school. Picked her stuff up later that day, and she never looked back. I'm almost there. Destination reached, landmarks familiar, the mission is rough. But I'll make it, and in 24 hours I'll be back at school, writing a paper about feminist political theory. Is sbe you? by Peggy E Samedi Contributing Writer A meeting about eating disorders was held on January 20th in the sec·ond floor West College lounge. The meeting had been advertised aU week on my R.A.s bulletin board and in the girls bathroom, which means it was basically ignored by one and all. My R.A.s were standing the door of the lounge and as people walked by the R.A.s asked them whether or not they were going to t:he meeting. When I was asked if I could attend the informational session, t tried to es- cape. All I wanted to do was go back to my room, but instead I went into the lounge. I figured I would make an ap- pearance and leave when I thought I could make a quick exit. Simple plan but effective ... until the subject matter caught my attention. The subject of the meeting was Eat- ing Disorders. To be more accurate Anorexia Nervosa and Bulimia. The speaker, who specialized in eating dis- orders, was from the Four Winds Clinic. Not your run-of the-mill quiet old lady- type, she was delivering a positive mes- sage of trying to see ourselves as we ate and if we wish to better ourselves de it with lov·e and attention to body and mind. I realize as women in this modern society, where thin is considered by popular culture to be beautiful, young women are susceptible to resorting to drastic measures in the drive to be thin. Many women are willing to destroy their bodies to achieve good looks, I understand that certain women would do anything to look like they think they should, but what about the rest of us who struggle with the same emotions yet never resort to drastic measures? Does that make us stronger mentally or emotionally then those who resort to throwing up after eating dinner or using laxatives to lose weight? What about those of us who struggle daily but know the damage that could be done to our bodies and do not to do those things? Where does that leave us? -, UNION COLLEGE CiJn.:u 1Je..1ic.pmlf ante CDC Updates ••• • Peace Corps will be at the CDC February 21 . Interview sign- ups are on a frrst-come first-serve basis. Applications and tran- scripts are required. • Teach for America Interviews -March 8, Applications Deadline March 1 to be sent directly to Teach For America. On-Campus Recruiting Reminders: • Andersen Consulting Information Session - Mon. February 5, 7pm~ CDC • Emma Willar4 one year teaching internship. Jack Easterling Director of the School will be at the CDC February 15· @' 4 pm to discuss the program. Sign-up is requested. • Carney, Sandoe &Associates- Teacher & Administrator Place- ment for Independent Schools is holding their 15th Annual Teacher and Administrator Recruitment Events. This Conference will be held in Boston on the 16th and 17th of February . Access their Web Site: http://www.csa-teach.:com for further in· fonnation Watch New Flash on the CDC Homepage forjob announcements. Career Development Center- Third Floor, Old Chapel

. . I Science and Technology The Food Industry finds Chemistry Useful by George Lombardo Staff Writer Often times in life, we take for granted our everyday ex- periences with food and do not realize the amount of prepara- tion that a frozen food prod· uct takes before it reaches your grocer's freezer. Some people, indeed most people, would scoff at the tenn sauce migra• tion and dismiss it as some fancy tenn food scientists con- jure up in the lab. While you may think this is comical, Michael King, a graduate stu- dent at the Comell University Institute of Food Service in Geneva, NY, finds words like these quite useful while assem- bling with his team of other Cornell students, a frozen pizza. The Cornell Institute, measuring more than 40,000 square feet of laboratory space, is one of the world's premier food labs. The pur- pose of the food institute ac- cording to director Mark McLellan, is threefold. First, they want to educate students. Secondly, the institute wants to develop new food-manu- facturing 'techniques, and thirdly, to provide scientific assistance to 11ewly emerging food companies. The Cornell students, for a school project, dec~ded to in- vent the world's first toaster pizza. An immediate problem the team encountered from the beginnin.g is that there are thousands of models of toast- ers that all cook very differ- ently from one another. Af- ter obtaining the results of the Pillsbury Company's analysis of most makes and models of toasters in the US, King and his team knew that most hot pastry-type foods are best when heated to a temperature of about 150j. Whether the Pizza Pop-Up could reach this temperature in 90 seconds depends on what it is made of since different materials conduct heat at different speeds, according to King. The team worked out the math and concluded that the pizza could not be more than 3/4 inches wide and 3/4 inches thick, weighing no more than 50 grams. Another problem the crew encountered was where to place the sauce; if they put it on the top as most traditional pizzas do, it may invoke a fire hazard if some sauce were to fail into the toaster coils. Therefore, King and his as- sociates decided to place the sauce inside of the crust only to be con- fronted with yet an- other problem: would not the crust become wet and not crispy? Sauce is referred to food researchers as a rheological substance-that is, sauce is a mixture of com- plex materials, known as polymers, that flow and de- form, changing many of its variables, including size and shape, in response to changes in temperature. One of the places polymers and water in a product like the Toaster pizza can flow is directly into tl1e dough, causing a wet, un- .desirable crust. To prevent the crust from becoming saturated, King's team coated the inside of the crust with a hydrophobic substance (sub- stances that resist the flow of water). One common hydro- phobic substance is lipids, or fats, and the team took advan- tage of that fact a n d coated their pizza dough with a lipid called acetylated monoglyceride. Fine. The sauce will not enter into the crust, but that does not mean the sauce won't break through it. Chewing is a scary phenomenon if you are in the food business, especially if 1 50 degree tomato sauce squirts out onto your lap. In order to make the sauce stay put, King decided to make the sauce thick. By making use of a rotational viscometer, the group assembled a thick mass of sauce at the exact consistency they wanted. Finally, the hard part was finished; the group now only had to deal with the marketing strategy. After taking into con- sideration all of the factors in pre- paring their product, the students de- cided to sell their product for $2.69 which included eight small pizzas. Even though as consumers we do not take into consideration words such as sauce migration, or foam performance (the vis- cosity of root bear), there is a great deal to be said about preparing frozen food prod- ucts. TheW orld Wide Web: How does it Work? Alex Beckers Contributing Writer The Internet is everywhere. WWW home pages are on au- tomobile ads, Netscape stock skyrockets and then collapses, andJ ava' s not coffe~ anymore. How has this explosion come about? And, more impor- tantly, how does it all work? In this series of articles, I hope to explain how the Internet works. I also hope to explain why you, the average Union student, would want to know how it works. For eX\- ample, did you know that you are never really \logged in\ to a website? Did you know that with Resnet and the right soft- ware, people could log in to your computer and leave you files? Did you know that it's virtually impossible to get a vi- rus via e-mail? Once you know how the Internet works it becomes far easier to diag- nose problems that you may have with your Resnet connec- tion; for example, whether a given problem exists on your computer, on Union's ma- chines, or somewhere else be- tween you and the site you're connecting to. The best way to learn is by example. So, let's look at an example. I'm going to ta'Ke my.computer, an ffiM com- patible connected to Resnet and running Windows, and I'm going to use Netscape to look at the home page of my friend Jeff Ellin, located at http://www.ids.net/~nedry/, and which has apparently been listed in a Japanese is where things begin to get interesting. Let's break down the URL. I just told Netscape to talk to the computer ••www.ids.net\ using http, which stands for \HyperText Transfer Protocol,\ which is the language used for the WWW specifically, and ask it for \~nedry.\ The first thing it has to do is find the IP address of www.ids.net. newspaper. Every machine on the Internet has a unique IP ad- The first thing I have to do dress - essentially, a phone is make sure that Winsock is number. If you're on Resnet, running. If you~re running your computer in your room Windows, without Winsock, has an IP address, to distin- you're not on the net. (The guish it from every other Macintosh equivalent is Internet-connected computer MacTCP). Winsock is a dy- in tpe world. For example,. nainically linked library;·or my machine is DJ,-L, that essei}.tially tells, 149.106.148.56. Once you your computer .J:low to talk know a machine's IP ad- using TCP/IP. TCP/IP is the dress, you can find it. protocol, or language, spoken However, the difficulty lies by every machine on the in remembering IP ad- Internet. So, whenever a Win- dresses. Arbitrary strings of dows application (or pro- three-digit numbers just don't gram) wants to talk to the have much thrill to them, Internet, it talks to Winsock. which is why in the early Next, I run Netscape, and years of the Internet, they tell it to look at the URL (Uni- created a little system called form Resource Locator) I DNS, or Domain Name Ser- listed above: \http:// vice. DNS is what allows us www.ids.net/-nedry/\. This to call machines \unvax.union.edu\ instead of 149.106.160.3, or \www.yahoo.com\ instead of 205.216.146.70. So Netscape, knowing the name of the machine I want it to talk to, needs to find out the IP address. It has to talk to a DNS server to do this, so it asks Winsock, \Who are my domain servers?\ Winsock checks its entry on \Domain name servers,\ which has been set up during my Resnet installation, and says, \Our DNS server is 149.106.160.3.\ You might notice that that's unvax's IP address. No coincidence there, unvax is the domain name'server for Resnet. This .is good to remember - if Netscape ever gives you an error with the initials DNS in it, it's smart to check if unvax 'is online, say, by trying to telnet to it. If unvax goes down, DNS is designed to de- fault to a backup server run by Sprint, but in my experi- ence that's shaky at best, So Winsock sends a request to unvax, asking, \Who is www.ids.net?\ Most likely, unvax will answer, \I have no idea who ids.net is - but I know who you can ask,\ and will tell it to ask the primary repository for name ad- dresses: the InterNIC, run by AT&T, Network Solutions, and the National Science Foundation. Winsock asks the NIC, who tells it, \I don't know about www.ids.net, but I've heard of ids.net. Ask them. Here's the address of their nameserver.\ Win sock turns to ids.net's nameserver, which is perfectly happy to tell it www's IP address: 155.212.1.12. As you can see, it's per- fectly natural for all of this to take some time, particularly when dealing with machines that are located a great dis- tance apart on the net. And we haven't even begun to ask how these messages get from place to place, or what www.ids.net does when my machine asks it for informa- tion. The fact that any of this can happen at all is astonish- ing if you really think about it. Next time: packets and rout- ers! ' ' Prc-J\1t.;d? Write Science and Technology for <I'lp.~ ([l'ltttln-oicn5t5. Call Extension 6155 for information!! . '

by Chris Richards Living Editor When I fell beneath the streets and found myself invis- ible on a bed of coal, at that moment my insight and vision awoke. I was not tiuly alive until I realized the power of my in- visibility. My ability to see through the illusions is a liber- ating gift, not a trap or a vice. lOrn astonished at how stupid and idealistic I was, living in the pipe dream of the Brotherhood. Ironically I can see more clearly in the dark than when sur- rounded by light. This irony defines the life of the poet. Had it not been for the mental re- strictions put upon me by the Brotherhood, I would not be able to relish the freedom which I now feel. In order to be free, one must first be chained. Now that I have arrived at the bot- tom of this monstrous world, my mental vision is without il- lusion. I was living in a night- mare. My education from the white man6s world crippled my mind. They pumped me full of false hope (fro.~ which I ulti- mately exploded) and made me believe that the education I was receiving wa~ liberating, when the truth is that it chained me to their corr:.tpt world. I became chained to the illusion of justice, liberty, truth and honor (as il- lustrated in the texts of Jefferson, Lincoln, Emerson and the like); I believed that Oall men are created equal,O when in fact that statement could not be further from the truth. Take a look around, do you see any equality whatsoever in this so- ciety? How can black and white ever be equal? I was blind like Barbee. Tragically, the accumulation of this deceitful knowledge led me to believe in the power of my language. From my school- ing I felt I could influence peopleOs lives with my speeches. They told me that my language was powerful and ef- fective, which served to boost my ego and further strengthen the illusions which they created within me. They made me think that I had the ability to be a great orator, while in truth I have no aptitude for it whatsoever. l was simply their puppet, and the strings they controlled me with was the false knowledge which they had given me. From read- ing their scores of books, I be- came convinced that I had learned enough about language to embark upon a career as an orator. I thought I could imitate the persuasive language of the authors I read. Ironically enough, my schooling made me stupid. Life Without Chains.......,__-~__,_____ They told me what to think; hence they thought for me and I never used my mind. I na- ively believed that a scientific, rational, literal approach could unite humankind and dissolve the differences between races. My heart and emotions became numb from the excessive use of pure reason! As a result, I be- lieved that communication ex- isted solely in the literal language of my words, since that was all they ever taught me. I became blinded to i:he powerful under- currents which words possess. Since I never used my mind,. I b e - lieved with machine guns and rifles. They want the streets to flow with blood; your blood, black blood and white blood, so that they can turn your death and sorrow and defeat into propa- ganda. ItOs simple, youOve k:oown it for a long time. It goes OUse a nigger to catch a nigger.O (Invisible Man P.558) I was living in Hell hut the white man insisted it was a Heaven. The truth was hidden behind the illusion ofthe Broth- erhood. I was led to believe that there was a scientific formula which could calm emotion. They told me t h at I a n - guage o per- atedon a one dimen- sional plane. They understood the machinations of my mind and the manner in which it could be I was going to be the n ext Booker T Wash- ington! One day I w i t . nessed controlled. One must sacn- f i c .e a crowd growing hostile in re- action to a womanOs eviction. The landlord6s thugs threw her into the street and slung her Bible in the mud along-side the rot- ting chicken bones. I realized that there would be a senseless eruption of violence if I did not at least try to calm the crowd. For you must remember, I did believe in my oratorical skills at the time (since I did get a col- lege scholarship out of my pur- ported ability). I hopped onto the steps and began what I thought was a reasonable line of argument. Owe are slow to an- ger people ... we are slow to an- ger people ... we are a slow to anger people.6 In doing so, I didn6t realize that my words induced the opposite effect of their literal meaning. I didnOt have the slightest clue that the crowd would interpret and act on the irony of my words. My language made them more anx- ious to riot. They realized 6We0re a slow to anger people ... Right? ... weOre slow to anger ... ArenOt we? ... YouOre not stupid .. .! know youOre not stupid because you donOt look stupid ... How could you be stu- pid when you look so smart?O This is why Jack from the Brotherhood chased me down that day. He knew that I under- stood language on a simply lit- eral level, and did not recognize the power of irony. Therefore, the Brotherhood could use me as a catalyst which would in- cite riots within the Negro na- tion, and I would be too igno- rant to realize the damage I was doing. OThey planned it. They want the mob to come uptown their personal visions (whatever they may be) for the good of the group; Jack made this perfectly clear. His eye was gouged out in a sacrificial act for the Broth- erhood. The artificial vision from his glass eye replaced his natural vision. I was blinded to the truth and did not recognize his artificial eye till he plucked it out! That was also my eye contained within that glass, which the Brotherhood had plucked from me, maiming my vision. My invisibility allowed them to see right through me. They understood the machinations of my mind and the manner in which it could be controlled. Had I understood what EmersonOs son told me during that interview, I would not have had to suffer nearly as much. But then again, experience is a far better teacher than rhetoric. Emerson said that Oto help me (you) I must disillusion you.6 At the time I was still a pawn of the system who did not think for himself, so unfortunately these words meant nothing to me. But now that I have 6step(ped) outside the borders of what men call reality6 I have 6step(ped) into chaos ... or imagination . .I Om invisible, not blind ... the world is just as concrete,ornery, vile and sub- limely wonderful as before, only now I better understand my re- lation to it and it to me. lOve come a long way from those days when, full of illusion, I lived a public life and attempted to function under the assumption that the world was solid and aH the relationships therein. Now I know men are different and that only in division is there true health. Hence again I have stayed in my hole because up above there6s an increasing passion to make men conform to a pattern.6 (Invisible Man P.576) But this life is certainly not for everybody. Not everyone can enjoy the liberating horror of witnessing reality without the comfort of mental illusions. Down here one realizes that all thoughts, all thinking, is truly invisible. In this hole I have es• caped the Hellish creation which destroyed by madness the best minds of my generation.(Howl Ln. I) I remember my grandfather told me that I should stick my head in the lionOs mouth every day of my life. This thought highlights the very sickness which America has inflicted upon the black man. Why would I want to do that? What is to ., be gained from it? Should I not strive to become the lion instead of the lamb? My grandfather told me to put myself in a posi- tion of fear and weakness; in addition to the possibility of be- ing decapitated at any moment. Is this anything other than sui- cide? Down in this hole I am safe from Moloch. I do not have to sacrifice my invisibility for an imaginary creature contrived from the mind of the white man. This Osphinx of cement and aluminum bashed open their skul,ls and ate uptheir brains and imagination.6 (Howl Pt.ll Ln. I) I can see all those insipid men from my past hideously clumped together into a horrific pile. They scream to me, and ask me how it feels to live with- out any illusions. They tell me that I am scared of the naked truth, while it is they who live in fear. Now that my imagina- tion has been restored, I clearly see that they are the ones who live their lives in chains. • MOTOPHOTO Create Your Own Portraits With Ji»~C>T~ITISIC>AT ......................................................................... . . : $2 OFf PHo·rovts.aoN : : Oub~1S.V.JnEHls110\.1.: cHINfxVad\ofidlAni;OhtfOiftt. : :- ............................................. - - .... - .... - - .... - - ......... - .... 1 . . : $4L99 a X lO EN!..ARGEA'AENIS: \ Umit Three. \ Cu.tomoropping.ulllebM ..- addttioMI oo~tOubM.mb..,s..,. .,EHu.1t/. oH I No! V.MdlrochA<.,.W...Of ... . r•••••• •• ....................................... •••• ·•· ................ , . ~ 50% Off FilM PROCESSaNG ~ ..................................................................................... 1 041 State St. Schenectady NY 12301 {518)-382-5776 . . . ·--------------· l I 1 I ·, ·I

-~ .\ ' ,MAMA'S BOV2 by JE'HRY CRAFT SUR£, mA, YE.AH, R~D !'\JE. Jl.)51 {)OIN' · GOf n BIG 'fESf HOmE.WORK '\Ot:nORROW. How~ tr .. GOI~ SQUIRT? -'~\'~ HOmEWORK , .. SfUtJ\IING ? ... WE.LL l ~m VERY PROUD 11-115 1\/ 5E.ASON mUST R£A£lVSTINK! · OF 1.,00 BOll-I! 11$ NOT AS SAD AS IT LOOKS .... -111$ NICKNAME U5E:D TO BE .357 MAGNUM· Pre K, 401 ~' t\ Melrt ... . · King crasswotd · ACROSS J Jai- 5 Away from work h;;--f---4-+-- 8 Auditioner's goal 12 \No Trespass- ing,\ e.g. 13 Patriotic org. 14 Really bad 15 Big banner 17 Teens• after- school mecca 18 A billion years 19 Mrs. Iago 21 Cobs and pens 24 Gear for Alberto Tomba 25 \Isn't It Romantic?\ 26 Spiraling descent 30 Candle count 31 Discard: slang 32 Part of \to be .. 33 Wrestling hold 35 Marceau's specialty 36 Hard to find 37 Dieter's lunch 38 Fame 41 Took top honors 42 \- the roof\ (song) 43 Post-game · party locale 48 Ill temper 49 Personal 50 Pre-diploma hurdle 51 Low-pH 52 Actor Ueatty 53 Cannine arul crimson DOWN l Tray minutia 2 Golfer's concem 3 Khan man 4 Start a paragraph 5 Valhalla VIP 6 Bleachcrite 8 Reward after a soccer foul 8 Negligent 9 Racetrack 10 Caron role 11 Scatter? 16 Spanish article 20 Exploit 21 Persian cat? 22Carry on 23 Vicinity 24 Spaghetti topper 26 Playwright Wilder 27 Jack and Jill's burdett 28 La Douce 29 Requisite J 1 Hammerhead fen lure 34lluzzcd monotonous 35 Creche structure 37 Scale mctnber 38 \-\dub-dub ... \ 39 Grand scale 40 - rnc tangere 41 Ston.n factor 44 Reverence 45 Jlink-slip 46 Young Mr. Lincoln 47 hint \mits \All right, class. 'Ibday we'll practice grunts.\ \We pooled our lunch monev.\ (' .• .,..,._.,_ ....... ___ ...,.. __ .. Here come your surgeons now.\ \Yes I can describe hrm. He was wearing a stocking over his head- heavenly beige, seamless sandal· wood with light support.\ \He was a brilliant stralegisl, but not much of a horseman.• Nil ~ \Don't you know any other pose?\

Pet·sonals and Classifieds Pe>ol, I hope your house is warm and The Sangria's cold. Happy Travels ..... Fluffbead. If You cannot write Pool, please write JP instead. To the Sisters ofGamma Phi Beta and Sigma Delta Tau, Thanks for your support. It meant A LOT. . The Sisters of Delta Gamma To the Brothers of Sigma Phi Thanks for being there when we needed you. Hope you enjoyed the bagel brunch. It was a lot of fun. The Sisters of Delta Gamma Michelle+ Magaly We miss you! You all in our thoughts everyday. The Sisters of Delta Gamma To the Brothers of Theta Delta Chi~ Thanks for the Great Bid Dinner Party. The Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta ATTENTION ALL JUNIORS AND SENIORS APPLYING TO MEDICAL SCHOOL All students planning on applying to medical school this year (for Fall 97 entry) need to be processed by the pre-health advisory committee during the winter term. If you have not yet done so, please see Kathy Hopper in the Dean 's Office (S-100) to pick up forms. Biracial Woman Wanted I am a senior at Union College working on my senior thesis. I need to interview biracal woman (one African-American, one Caucasian Parent) between the ags of 11-20 and 26-28. lfthis applies to you please contact me at 388-5895. Cal anytime until March 1996 Th·e Rathskellar will now be open late night on Friday and Saturday evenings from 9:00pm- midnight. Splendor in Stone This renowned exhibit from the State Museum at · Albany Meal equivalencies are also accepted as on weekdays, and bottled beer will be offered 9:00pm-midnight. So come in and enjoy a midnight snack with your friends and listen to the jukebox. Play your favorite tunes ... of spectacular color photographs of thin sections <?fro~ks t ,· I ' visits theN ott Memorial on the Union College . campus January 22 to February 29 Thin sections are slices of rock 1/850th of an inch thick, glued to glass. Seen through a polarized light micro- scope, the rocks have colors and patterns that astonish and amaze! In addition to bei~g unusual and dramatic abstract art, the colors and patterns can tell geologists about the minerals present and how the rock formed. Open to all! You won't believe such images are real! Vermont schist~ plane polarized light (actual width is 8 mm)

Sports College Basketball Hits Midseason. Point Jaso.n Fisher Contributing Writer ~ Th~ midpoint of the celiege basketball season is here, and there has beea a shift in the bal- ance of power. The Big Ten and. ACC conferences, which domi- nated college basketball fat the first half of this decade with teams like Michigan., Purdue, Indiana, D.U:ke and North Carolina, have been hard hit by poor recruiting artd the loss of their star players to the big mo·ney of the N.BA. Jerry Stackhouse, Raslteed Wallace, and. Joe Sm~th, all from the ACC, left their respective schools after their sophomore year; Iiot to mention Glenn OBig DogO Robii1son, and three•fifths ofTI1e Fab Five all left school early in pursuitof their NBA Odreams6. This premature exodus to the NBA has resulted h1 a changing of the guard, and once again restored basketball.supre1nacy to the east, and in particular the Big East. after reaching as high as #12 ear- lier this season. Syracuse6s suc- cess, like Georgetown, Villanova, and UCONN, can be attributed to J0hn WallaceOsdecision to return for his senior year. The resurgence of basketball in the east is not limited to the Big East. UMASS, ofthe Atlantic 10 Conference is the top team in the land, led by yet another under- classman who decided to skip the lure ofNBAmoney. Junior All- American Marcus Camby is con- sidered by some as the best player in the nation. Camby and his UMASS teammates are reminis- cent of Danny Manning an:d the 0Miracles6, tl1e 1988 National Champion Kansas Jayhawks, who were led by the All-American and nowNBA All-Star. There are plenty of other qual- ity teams out there, as well as a few surprises. Perennial powers Kentucky and Kansas are #2 and #3 respectively. Both have high hopes of going to the Final Four, but it is still too early to see if ei- ther has what it takes to get there. Some real surprises this season havebeen North Carolina and Cin- cinnati. Up until last week, Cin- cinnati was undefeated and wOTked its way into the Top Ten. North Caroiina, on the other hand, was suppgsed to have a rebuild- ing year in the ACC, but Dean Smith has done a remarkable job The resurgence of Big East basketball is a direct result of its marquee players commitment to stay in school. The Big East has three teams i11 the Top Ten., and five in the top twenty. Fourth ranked UCONN, the Big EastOs highest ranked team, is led by jun- ior All-American andPlayerofth.e Year candidate Ray Allen, who bypassed the NBA draft to stay in schooL Other players who deCided to stay in school and have vastly impacted their teams include Kerry Kittles of #7 Villanova, and Allen Iversdn of#6 Georgetown. . getting a consistent effort QUt of this young team and keeping tb.em atop the conference standings. The two biggest surprises in the Big East are Boston College and Syracuse. BC found itself hanging arourtd the polls at #20, while Syra.;use was holding at# 17 Look for an exciting second half of the season as Marcil Mad- ness approaches. The last Big East team in the Final Four was Seton Hall in 1989, but lookfor that to change this year because the Beast of the East is back! Mens Swimming Crushes Hamilton; Women Lose a Close One Aaron J Sicotte StaffWrit~r ·The ·M:erils swimiDing team is continuing to d:e- str.oy j,fs . oppOJ'l'ents. Once again they are on a tear to the champion- · ship. Their latest victim in their q'ilest was an overpowered· Hamilton team. The men won twelve· of .thirteen .events as they thoroughly hu- miliated their oflp.onent. Kevin Makarow·ski broke his own s:chool record in the 1000 yard Free with an impressive ti.me of 9:55:58. Makarow~ki also easily . swam to victory in the 500 yard ·Free. Mike Humphries had another impressive· day and won both the 200 Free and the 200 Back. Jeff Haerle also won both his events, with victories in the 50 Free and the 1041 Free. In the Diving com- petition, Brian Field qualified for NationaJs witb wins in both the 1 m~ter. and the 3 meter events. For the men, it was another·aU-around dominating·performance. The Wom~nOs t.eam put up a valiant effort in another tou·gh loss. They were led by senior Jenn Allaire, who won both the 200 I.M. ·and the 200 Back. The fans also Wit-' nessed a bea~tiful perfor- mance by J(elly Jamison, who came from be.hind to win the 400 F.ree Relay for the team. Iftbe team can regroup and continue to receive st1•ong p~rfor­ mances from individuals then they may be able to bounce back from some close loses in time for States, and join the men in dismantling opposing teams. That is all. ai~e C!Ionc:urhiensis • F~bru~ryl, 1996 • Page 19 .Dutchmen Rebound With Ten Goal Effort by Dagan LaCorte Staff Writer The Capital District belongs to RPI, at least for now. The Engi- neers came to Achilles Rink on Friday night, beating the Dutch- men by the score of 3-1, due to strong goaltending from Mike Tamburro. The win gives RPI a sweep of the 1995-96 season se- ries against Union. On Friday night, Leeor Shtrom made his first ECAC appearance since December 10. Shtrom played well in net, making 24 saves .in a los- ing effort. Union's play was also much improved, especially when compared to their effort last weekend at the RPI Field House. Junior forward Chad Thompson's second period goal ended Union's three hundred minute Friday night goal drought. Prior to Thompson's goal, the Dutchmen had been shut- out in four consecutive Fri- day evening games, witll ' their last goal coming on December 1st against St. Lawrence. The Dutchmen l1ad some strong scoring opportunities in the third period, hut pre season All-American · Mike Tamburro protected the Engineer's lead, making some key saves. RPI sealed their victory with fifteen seconds remaining in tile third period on an empty-net goal by senior Tim Regan. How- ever, Union's lack of offense was more than compensated for on Saturday night, as the Dutchmen sbellacked the Falcons of Air Force, 10-0. Union's offense exploded on .Saturday night, while goalie Leeor Shtrom recorded his first career slmtout. There were seven dif- ferent goal scorers in the gan1e and fourteen of the eighteen play- ers dressing, had points. The Dutchmen dominated the game in every aspect, out-shooting Air Force 45-17, while recording four goals on twelve power play cl1ances. Brent Ozarowski put to- gether a dominating game record- ing three goals and two assists. Ozarowski' s effort eamed him E.CAC ''Rookie ofthe Week\ hon- ors. Shtrom 's seventeen-save performance earned him a spot on the E.C.A.C. honor roll as well. The game against Air Force did, at the very least, serve as a confi- dence booster to the often ane- mic Union offense. With ten games remaining, all of which are league gan1es, the Dutchmen have ample opportu- nity to climb in the ECAC League Standings. At present the Skat- ing Dutchmen are tied with Yale for the tenth and final playoff spot. This coming weekend the Dutchmen travel to Providence and Boston to face the Brown University Bears, and the Crimson of Harvard University. The Dutch- men have had past success on this trip, recording a win and a tie in 1993-94. Hopefully this season's team can recapture some of the chemistry that lead the 1993-94 squad to a sixth place fin- ish. Woman Hoops Lose Three More MikeLeding Staff Writer The women llave now run their losing streak to ten in a row, and every game seems to be getting a little harder to play. Last Wednes- day, the women carne out hot be- hind the play of Tara Blagys and Tonya Capparello. They trailed 28-25 at the half, and came out steallling in the second half. The . charge was led by junior forward Tonya Capparello, who scored the · first seven points for the . Dutch women to keep them in the game. Tonya kept jumping into tile passing lanes, picking offtl1e ball and attempting lay ups. How- ever, in the end, number 23 Kristen Brunson started busting threes, and Hartwick's quickness and cleptb took over to wear Union down. Union's squad is about six or seven deep with Sara Gower and Amy Dougherty coming off the bench to provide good min- u1es, but beyond that the rest of the women are young and inexpe- rienced. On Friday the women traveled to Hamilton and played their ltearts out. Amy Hitz considered it their best performance of the year. Mary Schultz led the way with 22 points,. and she continues to get better with every game. As · t>f last week, Hamilton was third inthe UCAA conference and their Saturday opponent William Smith was in first place undefeated at 7- 0. A t11rashing was expected by all, and that is exactly what Union received. At half-time William Smitll' s lead was 44-13, and they continued to pummel Union to a final score of 77-44. As the women continue their downward spiral, Middlebury ar- rives this Wednesday for a seven o'clock game here at Union. Amy Hitz continues to play well while ranked fourth in the UCAA in scoring at 16.8 points a gan1e, and second in rebounding at 12.1 boards a game. The only other players scoring in double digits are Tony a Capperello at 11.7 points a game, and Tara Blagys at 10 .I points a game.

February 1,1996 PAGE20 Heart-Broken: Richards Brothers Diagnosed With Heart Ailments Jon Gasthalter Sports Writet The Union College basketball Dutchmen came into the week with more on their minds then the game of basketball. Tite Dutch- men leamed that junior twins Shola and Doyin Richards would be out for the re- mainder of the season with a congenital heart problem. Contrary to what prelimi- nary reports had indicated, the problem that tl1e Richards brothers have is not the same as that which killed Reggie Lewis or Hank Gathers, both fonner basketball players. Doyin Richards was diagnosed with hy- pertrophic cardiomyopathy, a genetic dis- order. l11e problem was fi.rst discovered when Doyin Richards collapsed in a fit of con- vulsions during a light practice session last week. Richards was unconscious for a minute and does not remember anytl1ing that happened after passing off the ball to one of his teammates. After collapsing, he was mshed to the hospital and was kept ovemight to monitor his heart rate. After a variety of tests including a stress test, doc- tors diagnosed Richards with the hyper- trophic cardiomyopathy disorder. Since he and Shola are identical twins, doctors tested Shola for the same disorder and he turned up positive _as well. The tests showed that Doyin's dborder is more ad- vanced than his brother's. As a result, both must refrain from playing basketball and physically exerting themselves in large amounts until an exact determination of how much stress each can take is ascer- tained. TI1e fact that the twins cannot compete in the sport has had a true effect on the team and on themselves. Shola understands that he cannot play, yet he and his brother stil1 have the urge to jump into a game even though they both know it could prove to be fatal. \I know that my life is an impor- tant thing and if I were to play I would be risking my life. But on the same token, I watched tile Hartwick game last Tuesday and that was avery dose game and to kn.ow that both my brother and I could have made a difference if we were on the court, it hurt.\ The team, which is down to ten players, for a variety of reasons, is in desperate need of offense once provided by the Richards brothers. \More than anything I want to be on the court with them,\ said Shola. The Dutchmen basketball team has lost the pro- duc.tion and leadership of two strong indi- vidual players in Shola and Doyin. Shola felt that the younger players would have to \step in and do some good things like Rob TeCarr has.\ He also added that \Coach [Scanlon] has done a very good job of trying to keep the spirits up of the team, which is good because the players really need it.\ Doyin felt tl'lat learning of his disorder and not being able to participate in the sport of basketball has given him a new outlook on life. \I took life very seriously before this incident. When this happens and you come so close to death it makes you realize that there are other things more important in life, and this makes it so I can have more fun and concentrate on other things that are important to me.\ Although Doyin is out for this season, his basketball career may not be completely finished. He will find out on February 15th after another series of tests including a heart biopsy, in which a doctor snips off a piece of the heart muscle and analyzes it under a microscope, whether it is a vims or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy that is af- fecting him. After those tests have been completed, Richards will learn ifhe will be able to compete in the sport that he loves again. \Time will tell,\ he said. Doyin is taking Toperol, a medication which makes his heart work at a normal pace, pumping more blood to essential organs such as the brain. Further tests will show ifthe Toperol is enough to keep his heart working prop- erly or if he· needs a defibrillator surgically inserted into his heart muscle to keep it pumping correctly. Sholaretlected en his lifetime experience of .playing basketball by saying, \I am los- ing the game ofbasketball and that is some- thing that I have been playing since I have been five years old. I never really thought that basketball would leave for any reason, but it makes me think how mu,ch I took the game for granted attimes. There were times when I didn't work as hard as I could have at the game, or I didn't do as much as l thought I should have. You look; 'i:t'it and you never know when it is going to be taken away from you and I realize that right now, and something that I lo\Ve is gone. To the players that are still playing, this sport or any other sport, each day that you are on Women's Hoops 2/6@ Vassar 6:00 Swimming 2/3 ST. LAWRENCE 2:00 Track 2/3 CAPITAL DISTRICT AT ALBANY 10:00 the court or field take it seriously and re- ~pect it because you never lmow when it is going to be taken away frc:nn you. If you need a J:eminder,just l9ok at me and my brother. Everyday we go through. the pain of not being able to play basketball and it's beeurough and it's an adjustment. TI1ere is more to life than basketball &'Uld now my job and my brother'sjpb is to find out what it is. Life does go o# and I am . going to do my best to mak~ the proper adjustment.\ Time will tell ifthe Richards twins can, or will need to, .adapt to life wi'thout bas- ketball. The inner strength of these indi- viduals will pull them through any ob- stacles tl1ey may face, and the Union Col- lege community wishes them luck in their further endeavors. Men's Hoops 2/3 @Kings Point 2:00 2/6@ Utica Tech 8.:00 Hockey 2/5@ Yale 7:30 2/6 @Princeton 7:00 • t i

onrnr tettsts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 VolumeC:XXV, Number XII Schenectady, New York February 8, 1996 Admissions Makes Amends:. Minorities Are Major by Stephanie Slobotkin As:;istant News EditQr The number two with a per- cent sign following it has meant only one thing to many students and faculty on campus over the past five months. The number has caused problems. It has cre- ated tension.and anxiety among those of us who know what it means, However, some people fail to ask themselves if there is any real justification for their feelings. This small percentage is the number we most closely associate with the minority. stu- dents in the class of 1999. In the fall of 1995, when art article was published about the decrease in minority students in comparison to other years, Ad- missions was looked down upon and Dean Dan Lundquist was the main target of many accusa- tions. People wanted to know why the number was not higher and why Admissions ever al- lowed such seemingly low num- bers to appear on a Union docu- ment or brochure. Students wanted answers. Faculty wanted diversity. Many others were determined to know why the ever so infamous allegation \A Union ofPeople\ was defiled. Was there really defilement on the part of Admissions? Did anyone look behind the steel doors ofthe admissions building to find out? Or did students read the number, jump to conclu• no less than any other year in recruiting minority students. They also made the point clear that they typically do not have years with percentages as low as this one. The reason for the small percentages of minority students was related to Union's competition. Since many of Union's competing schools look for diversity, it is extremely dif- ficult to get the high numbers of minority students one hopes to see. Union's competition sions, and point fingers at the r--::::,..,.,.----~ most likely candidate for · blame? The student body and faculty 9fUnion need to be in- formed::about the admissions · process ·~in .. the other side. Students n~~d to know why there is less diversity in the classrooms this year and why it seems that nothing is being done to change those factors. Since confusion has con- sumedstudent's thoughts about admissions since September, it is time for a much awaited in- formation session. In speak- ing with the Dean of Admis- sions, Dan Lundquist, and the Assistant Dean of Admissions, DarrylJJ.ggle,~myriadof new iifl?.ts-~(f ·opirlions·emerged. in response to questions based on the two percent mi- nority, both Dean Lundquist L.....~-:..o-,'----~-------'~~=~-'--\--\'~----.........::..__:_= and Assistant Dean Tiggle em- phasized the fact that they did B~cker Hall, Tire scene ojtl1e \minority misltaps\~ Photo by Rick Lederer/TI1e Concordiensis Roger Might Build • • • • • ·, .. i . ··•'·:. Wit/1 Founders Day tit/$ weekend can Union President Roger Hull pull a rabbit out of /lis cap and raise tire immense amount of money necessary to ju/fdlllis library ja11tasies.? Plioto by Rick Lederer/Tite Co11cordiensis goes after the same pool and, as a result, this year the ivies took half and the SUNY schools cleared the rest. Dean Lundquist com- continued on page 3

News y February 8, 1996 ibit: Splendor in Stone ld Lohner . Splendor in Stone .- .. .._.,~u- Speaker sOpen February 9, 1996 \bit Splendor in Stone .............. vit: Splendor in Stone sOpen February 10, 1996 \bit: Splendor in Stone Splendor in Stone Cecilia Orchestral \bit: Splendor in Stone Lohner Exhibition ............ vit: Splendor in Stone . College Orchestral rConcert February 12, 1996 rsnJ.en,Jor in Stone Lohner Exhibition February 13, 1996 ibit: Splendor in Stone ld Lohner Exhibition Splendor in Stone ree Movie: \Meatballs\ ednesday February 14, 1996 ibit: Splendor in Stone ld Lohner Exhibition ............ u.~.t: Splendor in Stone sOpen ay February 15, 1996 ibit: Splendor in Stone 's Op~n Start Finish 8:00a 8:3'0a 9:00a 6:00p l2:00p lO:OOp 7:30p 9:00p 8:00p 12:00a R:OOa 8:30a 12:00p lO:OOp 8:00p 12:00a 8:00a 12:00p 8:00p 8:00a 9:00a 8:30a 10:0Qp 9::30p. 8:30a 6:00p 12:00p lO:OOp 3:00p 6:00 p 8:00a 8:30a 9:00a 6:00p 12:00p lO:OOp 8:00a 9:00a 8:30a 6:00p lO:OOa 4:00p 12:00p 1 O:OOp 7:00 p ll:OOp 8:00a 8:30a 9:00a 6:00p I 2:00p 1 O:OOp 8:00p 12:00a 8:00a 9:00a 8:30a 6:00p 12:00p 1 O:OOp 8:00p 12:00a Location Nott Memorial Arts Building Atrium Nott Memorial CC Auditorium CCChet's Nott Memorial Nott Memorial CCChet's Nott Memorial Nott Memorial .. Memorfal Chapel Nott Memorial Arts Building Atrium NottMemorial Memorial Chapel Nott Memorial Arts Building Atrium Nott Memorial NottMemorial Arts Building Atrium HH Old Chapel Nott Memorial CC Chet's Nott Memorial Arts Building Atrium Nott Memorial CC Chet's Nott Memorial Arts Building Atrium Nott Memorial CC Chet's !,c . . • > 2:04AM 12:15 PM 3:30PM 9:02PM 12:27 AM 12:45 PM .15 PM LOCATION . INCIDENT MONDAY, JANUARY29, 19~6:. South College Psi Upsilon Richmond Fox North SECURITY HAZARD: All exterior doers found propped open.Doors were closed only to be found re-propped later. VANDALISM: Student's mom door kicked in, door jam damaged. No entry into room. NOISE COMPL-AINT: Recurrent problem with noise during quiet hours . PROPERTY DAMAGE: Glass in entry door broken. Cause undeterlliined ... 'possibly accidentaL TUESDAY, JANUARY 30,1996: Fieldhouse Raymond Lot Davidson VANDALISM: Window broken. VANDALISM: Student's car damaged~ mirror broken, body dented . DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Group of students, non-residents of building, running through halls creating a disturbance . . WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 1996: NO SERJOUS INCIDENTS REPORTED. 6:54PM 8:15PM 2:00AM 2:45PM 1:00AM 5:31AM 6:45AM 4:00PM 7:45PM 9:13PM 2:15AM 2:43PM 6:27PM THURSDAY, li'EBRUARY 1, 199Ji: South, College · - · · · VAND:ALISMlSECURITY HAZARD: . Richmond Reamer Center Entrance door lock immobilized. Residence hall entry unable to pe lo~)<ed . LIFE S~FETY VIOLATION: Lighted candle ·in residence hall room. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor of marijuana reported in 4th floor stairwell. Report confinned. Suspects gone on arrival. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY2, 19?~: Child Care Center Library Lane area PROPERTY DAMAGE: Window screen damaged. Cause undetennined. RECKLESS DRIVING: Student observed by staff member driving car across lawn. No damage to lawn. SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1996: Reamer Center Fox House Fox/Davidson Lot Off Campus Incidents VANDALISM: Large hole in wall near the pinball machines. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY /AT TEMPTED THEFT: Student's room entered, suspects attempted to furniture from common room. Suspects fled when confronted by resident. VANDALISM: Student's car window broken. ASSAULT: Alleged assault of Union student at another college. Alleged retaliatory assault by Union students. Incident under investigation by authori ties. SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3,1996: Davidson House Rathskeilar AGGRAVATED HARASSMENT: Phone calls to several rooms soliciting phone sex. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Student creating a disturbance.Conduct Charges f:tled. SUNDAY, FEBRUARY4, 1996: .. Steinmetz Hall Fox Lounge Richmond VANDALISM: Window broken. SAFETY IlAZARD: Television fell from ceiling brackef. No one injured. Television damaged beyond repair. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Lighted candle in residence hall room. Life Safety Violation Notice filed.

m4e OlotJcorbien5is • February 8, 1996 • Page 3 Social Committee: The Upcoming Social Scene The social committee's zeal and enthusiasm has paid off once again. The upcom- ing events are approaching fast, so be sure to take advantage of each one. First in line is the. Trustee Lunch, which will take place on Friday, February 9th. All are welcome to dine with these distinguished and highly recognized alumnae from !2:30pm until2:00pm.in West College orUppcrclass Dining. Sign-ups will be ill the Reamer Campus Center, where brief biographies of each trustee are available. Upon signing up, you are not committed to the full 90 minutes; feel free to introduce yourselfto any ofthe 22 trustees attendifig. In a short time, you could gain valuable insight into the \real world\{ from their unique perspectives. Connections. may be made and career pointers could turn to pearls of wisdom. Next up is the Winter Affair Weekend. Even though the Night on the Town semi- formal was very successful, the social committee will attempt to outdo itself on Feb- ruary 24th from 8:45pm to 1:30 a.m. Fora touch of elegance to break the monotony of winter, the dress will be formal and it will be held at the Ramada Inn. Transporta- tion will be available by bus for those without their own chartered jets or private limos. Tickets will go on sale beginning February 12th in the Campus Center. For a full schedule of events, stay tuned to the Concordiensis for up-to-the-minute cover- age. · . Prior to the formal dance will he the Food Festival of Nations. On. friday, febru- ary 23rd at 4:00p.m., a musical and culinary tour ofthc world will energize you to dance all Saturday night, so watch for banners and flyers in the Campus Center and your mailboxes. . . . In the meantime, as you anxiously wait for these events, there wtll be movtes playing in Chets every Tuesday at 7:00 and 9:00 p.m., and extended ,hours at the RathskeHar. These new programs have generated incredible support, but the social committee is always open to new ideas. Please mail any suggestions or comn1ents to Ruthie Strosberg, Social Committee, Box #2142. Min·orities and Admissions ( cont' d) mented: \We were clipped at both ends ... we visited, we sent the mail.. .In all my decades of work what we could have donediffcrently is being done.\ One should not be-di-smayed by'the\'percent<igc of this one year. The · . effort to recmit ,is, .certainly,.prominent in .th~~ daily ~.~u.~incs of ad~is~ions. : In order to make for a more diverse campus, Union Admissions wo.\ ~<s day · in and out to· recruit students of-all races, ethnic backgrounds, and cultures. This year especially, in response to Union's student and faculty concerns about diversity, Admissions has made extra efforts to add variety to the classroom. Not only did they make their usual visits to an abundance of high schools, but they also made many more personal phone calls. Also, phone-a-thons were held to encourage minority students to come to Union. These efforts increased as Admissions extended the deadline for financial . aid forms. They made many extra phone calls, and even singled ·out stu..; dents of color to ensure the arrival ofthcse forms (apparently many people: missed the deadline last year). This year, they gave people more notice and . can only hope for the best. Another aspect of admissions that students often tend to ignore is the idea that once we enter Union College, it is no longer a two-sided process. If the student body and faculty feel so strongly about having a more d.ivcrsc class~ room, it is the students job too, as hosts and advocates of a higher education institution, to encourage prospective students to feel welcome and comfort- able here. The admissions office feels that their objective is for both sides to coalesce in order to make this happen. As Darryl Tiggle said, \Teammates don't criticize teammates.\ The number of minority students can only in- crease significantly with an effective effort from everyone and a strong desire to make it happen. The admissions office has few secrets to keep from the students and fac- ulty. Besides confidential documents on students' profiles, everything else is open to the public. On page three ofthe Union application Admissions lets students know what this college is about. Dean Lundquist is adamant about the idea that Union has everything to offer. He commented: \We think we have the ingredients to make the recipe to make Union great. .. proud. 11 The college prints exactly what they are looking for and clues in the applicants on the ideals that Union values. If people are not content with the offer, they simply do not apply. Union is a place for change. The students, faculty and especially the staff involved in admissions are always ready and willing to plunge into the com- plicated and .sometimes rigorous process of recruiting, hoping to promote diversity and thus commence change. Change may be slow, but etTorts are being made from all sides. Many organizations on campus are well aware of the problem and are presently engaged in intense minority recruitment as well. In the greatest effort to form \a more perfect Union,\ the Admissions looks to the student body. With the students help and continuous desire for a more diversified classroom, Union can change. Change takes time, and pa- tience is a virtue which should guide this process in the broadest and most diverse of directions. Campus News Founders Day by Michelle R. Ellis Staff Writer This weekend the Union community will celebrate Founders Day.ln addition to President Roger Hull'sannual address, a Union professor, three college presi- dents, and two high school teachers arc to be honored during a festive ceremony on Saturday, february 10, at I i :30am in Memorial Chapel. lJnion assistant professor of chemis- try, Mary Carol, will receive the Stillman Prize for Excellence in Teaching, estab- lished by Abott L. Stillman '69, a mem- ber of the College's Board of Trustees. Carroll graduated from Union in 1986 and after receiving her Ph.D. from Indi- ana University she returned to teach at Union. This is the firsttime that the Stil.lman Prize will be given to a faculty member, as it was just recently created by the gen- erosity of the Stillman family. The Stillman Prize is unique in that the re- cipient of the award is selected by seniors. The class of 1995 was a.'\ ked to nominate faculty members for the Stillman Prize and a cqmmittee comprised of both fac- ulty ·and students reviewed the nominees and selected Mary Carrol. Carrol is surprised and flattered to be receiving the Stillman Prize. She stated, \I am quite honored to be chosen. I am only in my f(mrth year of teaching and I still feel like a novice. I am stilI learning how to do this and I am a little embar- rassed. My colleagues used to be my in- structors.\ Three College presidents will receive honorary degrees for their assistance in establishing· foreign study exchanges with l Jnion. Gordon McGregor, former president of the University College of Ripon and York St. John in York, En- gland; Ztan Feng Liang, president of Nanjing Normal University in Nanjing, China; and Sadato Tanimato, president of Kansai Gaidai University in Osaka, Ja- pan will be honored this weekend. Two high school teachers; Michael Zuauf and Rita Livingston, will receive the Gideon Hawley Teacher Recognition Award . Catherine Bosiak '98 nominated Zulauf, a history teacher at Gilfot:d (N.H.) lligh SchooL Graham Bryce '98 nomi- nated Livingston, a retired physics and mathematics teacher at Kelly Walsh High School in Casper, Wyoming. The Gideon Hawley Award is na1ned for the 1809 Union graduate who was distinguished for his leadership in edu- cation and his concern for teacher devel- opment. Come oui and join the celebration this Founder's Day. See how many interest- ing people are being honored:for the suc- cess that they have achieved in their ca- reers. Also ifyou attended a term abroad in England, China. or Japan you should come and hear what the presidents ofymtr host universities have to say about the Union college exchange program. The Hot Zone by Brandon D. Dcclet Staff Writer Last week Richard Preston, the au- thor of The Hot Zone came to Union to speak about the Ebola virus, the subject of his new book. To the surprise of art his presentation ended up being a descrip- tive anddistt,u:bingtale of a pathogen that compl~tely destroys the human body and is incurable. Due to the large tumout and the presentation was moved from the Reamer Campus auditorium to the Me- morial Chapel. The audience was filled with a mix of students, faculty and Schnectady residents, a few of which cradled copies ofThe Hot Zone hoping to get an autograph. Preston spoke for over an hour and a hal f. lie focused on the dangerous out- break of the lethal Ebola virus which struck Zaire last year and killed hundreds of people. His presentation was filled with dramatic stories and rather descrip- tive pictures or what this terrible virus can do to the human body. Halfway through the talk it was clear that some people, mostly students found the topic far too disturbing and many simply got up and left. To most though, the presen- tation was fascinating and Preston kept it going by using bizarre, and real I ife an- ecdotes. After hearing Preston's presentation Nicole Giniger '97 simply said, It was frightening. This sentiment was felt by many after I istening for over an hour I to what this incurable virus can do to the human body. In Preston's words, the vi- rus literally is able to reproduce itself in all types of human tissue resulting in the complete destruction of most bodily or- gc,.ns. What many thought was going to be a rather dul1 presentation on literary technique turned into an all out descrip- tive and enthralling look into the world of viruses and the people who work to protect us from them. The presentation ended with a lively question and answer session that tocused on people's fear that a similar type ofvi- nts could somehow get to the United States. Preston diligently answered ques- tions and eventually ended his presenta- tion with a political pitch aimed at help- ing to keep the Center for Disease Con~ trol fully funded. It was clear that the presentation left most people including many faculty mem- bers honestly concerned that the Ebola virus or some other unknown pathogen could one day cause an outbreak within what we believe are the protected bor- ders ofthe United States. After this pre- sentation most people would have trouble disagreeing.

Muslim Student Association Club has ap- nrf\'''\'\\., Schaffer with regards to having their ~OJristitutroil approved and their club being rec- The club has asked for no funding; for recognition from the forum. engineering department has met with AAC to propo~e its plan to an1enc! the \' curriculum. The amend'- would increase the course load o( engi- petmnlp; students. Tolkoff and members of the forum plan to · · concerns over various academic issues as the need for freshman preceptorial and means in which courses are given credits the next AAC meeting. The multi-cultural affairs committee has met an agenda has been made for the term. agenda was distributed to the members the forum. A Cultural Awareness day is in planning as well as future crosstalks and speakers. The Panhel. is planning to host an Eating · Day this month. A guest speaker also attend. Some concerns over various issues have been sed by CELA and ALAS. The forum will r->'~'\'\''\ these during new business and will ~IUIJt:lt.tuv hear.from representatives from each Forum .nembers discuss the possibility of !ding one bulletin board for the Reamer enter to reduce. excess paper and the rrnJlTrl,•rtnoF>\S\ of the Reamer Center walls th fliers, etc.. Pellish will meet with Lee to discuss options. Forum members were updated on the dis- . ons about a commencement speaker. The l'l.Prnnr class members suggested to the other ~\\'\'\''\that they begin to think about speak- for their commencements at least a year advance. EW BUSINESS Junior Class Fund-raiser will begin next FlowersEwill be sold in the Reamer Guidelines for members of the student body receive moneys form the student forum to • \enrich campus life outside of the room\ have been drafted. Student can NOW apply for these ..... ~\' through the-Student Forum. - SAFESPACE has had their budget proved for $1670. The club plans to in speakers, provide shows and talks educate its members better. Motion to cept the Finance Committee's rec:onlm,en-1 dation by Camara and 2nd by tlf<)Wll,mtsst:Sf unanimously. ALAS AND CEI 4 i.,;:,ues discussed. -.. .......... , ,.. feels it is not receiving enough rec:ogJnitiloq and is being misrepresented. They asked for their own fimding in order to rate from ALAS. Members ofCELA meet with Ken Chase andGeramie uumm·~ to resolve this issue. CHET'S COMMITTEE has asked the dent forum for additional funding to chase a new cooler for the bPI area. cooler will cost approximately$ 4UILJ w~luc:ll included shipping, lock and u· lSUtllnlen't.l Motion to accept proposal by Camara 2nd by Brown passes unanimously Brown abstaining. Muslim Association Club motion to accept! constitution and recognize club by :ScllatteiJ and 2nd by Cunanan passes unanimously. CHI EPSILON engineering society asked the student forum for funding for trip to the National Engineering Lonvt:rwtor~ on the weekend of MARCH 7th. needs to have representation here in to establish itself as a known chapter. rum debated issue at length. All .... , ... v..,. agree this is a great idea but there is ti on about whether or not the forum can propriate funds to a group which is opened to all students. Debate continues many mem hers suggest that the forum firid out if it is constitutional to aPJ)ropnatej funds. Chase feels it is unconstitutional this point and the issue is not brought to vote. Tolkoffis in strong opposition to forum's decision . - Founder's Day will be on Feb.l 0 and a lunch will be held that weekend all students to meet and interact with Trustees ofthe College. Sign ups for lunch will be in the Reamer Center the ofFeb. 5. - Chase has sent a memo to all student asking them to help promote the use of Student Forum Hetline X5998. - Meeting broughtto a close by a un1munm1~ vote at 6:45 PM • MOTOPHOTO Create Your Own Portraits . , · With PECOTOVISIOAT ....................................... _____ .... - ·····--·--·· ......... .. . . $2 OFF PHOTOVtStON : CkbMombotrS..on ElolalOY. CJIII NoiVaidW.AnjoO!hi<OII... , :- ... - ......... -.- .............................. - .... - ....... - ................ ~ . . . $4,99 8 X 10 ENlARGEMENTS l Limit ltv-. C...O...crCJA*lGavohl>loOI -OOOICU.MoornbtJ•S.W Wt£ouio'll'/. CJft I , Noo Void WihAn,Ckt.tr Qf.,, , . . , ........................................................................... . . . : 50% OFF FtlM PROCESSING : ·• . . CkbMombotsS..one...alOY.'CJIII • No!V.WW.An.,ofllhtrOif«, • . . ················---~---·----~·-··--·--·-~--~·-·· 1041 State St. Schenectady NV 12301 (518)-382-5776 ·-------......._ ___ ......,_ __ . ij]:g£ Qinn(:.adrt.ensis • F~bruary 8, l996• Page 4 National Condom Day: Wear one or get none by Stephanie Slobotkin Staff Writer Couples at Union may seem rare, but there are more sexual actions occur- ring between people then you might imagine. Despite what you may think there is an abundance of sex occurring in your donn and amongst. your peers. Because of the vast numbers ofsexually active students on college campuses the American Social Health Association (ASHA) is sponsoring Nationa,l Condom Day on Valentines Day. Thepntpose of this. public announcement is to remind couples to be responsible for their intimate acti<ms. STDs are the main reason why the ASHA has decided to advocate Na- tional Condom Day. They emphasize the fact that protection is eminent in preventing the spread of various dise~ses and pregnancy. They also stress the idea that sexual relations should be openly spoken ofand highly respected by both partners. In sexual relationships each person has the right to know about · any past or present STDs that their partner may have been afflicted with. The · president of ASHA, Peggy Clarke commented: \Because so many STDs . have very mild symptoms or no symptoms at all, an infect~d person can trans- .. mit a disease without being aware of the infection.\ Additionally, STDs are can range from mild to extremely severe, An estimated 55 million Americans have STDs, with 12 million new infections each year. Two-thirds of new infections occur in people under 25 and one-fourth occur in teenagers. These facts alone should enforce protection usage and proper dialogue prior to sexual engagements. Besides being aware of the presence ofSTDs and the many negative con- sequences that arise from them, one must he reassured that open communica- tion should not inhibit a sexual relationship. On the contrary, honesty and respect can lead to more intimate experiences. The ASHA is sponsoring Na- tional Condom Day to make people aware that STDs can be prevented and sexual intimacy can be achieved in ways other than penetration. The ASHA offers a tree brochure that discusses the relative benefits of various birth control methods in preventing pregnancy and SID infection. It explains that while other contraceptive methods are effective in preventing pregnancy, only condoms are highly effective in preventing STDs. One must not feel the need to give up sexual pleasure because of protection. Safety is a main priority and no matter how trusting or loyal your partner may be, pro- tection is crucial for any healthy relationship. We may not be able to observe whatgoes on behind closed doors, how- ever we do have the capacity to regulate and control what goes on in our own personal relationships. Talk to your partner. Be honest. Be intimate. But most importantly, be safe. On this Valentine's Day, the ASHA reminds us all to stay healthy and love responsibly. When you':re aot hitting the books, · hit. th~ slopes at St•atton Moaataiil. Stratton has sensational savings for college students throughout the winter and spring semesteiS. Just ptesent your valld college J.D. to get mid-week Uft tickets for just $20. And save $5 on weekends and holldays. And Stratton Village has loads of restaurants. pubs and live entertainment right at the mountain, so you'll have an amazing time off the slopes, too. Do yqtu: field work at Stratton Mountain this semeste~: Your Bcon professor will be proud . For more details, call l-800-STRATTON. Or visit Stratton on the Internet at .http;/jwww.genghis.com;stratton.htm 8tdon VBIIMIINT The mountain will move you. I>XTRAORI>INARY RRS<JRT5 BY INTRAWEST BLACKCOMB PANORAMA STRATTON TRBMbLANT

- '<J;l\'f~ 1\ ~' . . Page ~· Febru~cy 8~ 19~6 ar~e. di~ntndritnsi~ International: * Kenyan President Daniel Aiap Moi is' seeking more aid, which has be.en frozen by in- ternational agencies, whi'le he flies around in a $50 million private lux:ury jet. Th~ economy is improving, but.t\te population is growing faster than the economy. ' ! . * Soldiets seized control of Niger·~· Government, With Col. Barre Mainassara Ibrahim po'\ sitioning himself as head of state, while ;decreeing that po:. litica1 part!es .wer~ outlawed and the cqnstitut~~m ·was sus- peJ1ded. fie said the military . had ·~save~ Niger. front chaos,\ and th.at · pofiticians were \greedy badly prepa~ed, an~ incapable of'ailapting 1 tO the de- mands of democratic power.\ The Uniteo. States and ·:France suspended aid to tile ~frican country. * An American boy ,from . Se~ attle, Washington, who is oldy four, is believed to he a refucar- .. nation of a Buddhist monk and is at a monastery in Nepal to learn from the monks and even- tually lead that monastery. * Seventy-three were killed in Sri L!lnka by a powerful truck bomb. This bomb blast comes on the heels of President Chandrika Banddaranaike Kumaratunga's latest offers for· greater autonomy to the 'Tamil ethnic minority in the nort1t and east regions. The Sri Lanka Army achieved a smashing vic- tory against the rebels in De- cember when they seized the city of J affna, which was a rebel stronghold. *Thousands of Ethiopian Jews clashed with riot police outside the Prime Minister's office. Prime Minister Peres was meeting with a delegation of Ethiopian Jews when the riots occurred. The cause of the riot was over the fact that blood donated was secretly dumped because authorities feared it was contamina.ted with BIV and did not want to publicly stigmatize the donors. * Japanese prosecutors de- manded ten year prison tetms for three American servicemen accused of the tape of a 12 year- old girl. In Japan that punish- ment is considered harsh, but opponents of American mili- tary bases, which occupy large tracts of Okinawa soil, said the punishment does not fit the crime. * The United States Ambassa- dor to Austria handed over an envelope detailing the location and contents of the 79 secret arms caches. The weapons were stockpiled across western Austria which was the Ameri- can zone of occupation after World War II for Commurtist partisans to aid in revolt against a Soviet invasion. * France said. that it was sus- pending nuclear tests in the ' .~ South Pacific. The tests were carried o'Ut to detail the reli- ability of a new weap<>rt for nucleaf. ·submaritt.e!f; · an,d ··· gather data for f\lture com- puter simtJb:ttion ~ests. France said it was now willing to sign a comprehensive Test :Ban Treaty. ,. * In a pre-election buoying ef- · f~rt, Russian Pr¢sident B.oris Yeltsin is promising new ·spending plims that are · worrying Foreign .creditors · : . since it implies that be coulq reverse the· course on eco.;. nomic . reyital,i~flti9n .and re- fmm .. · * 'fhe United s'tates. will. help ' . .' defray Russia's e;xpenses for the international space Station c~Ued Alpha by carrying out': · thl'ee launchings carrying equipment which would. have been handled lJ¥ the Russians. Nation: * The G.O,P. leadership is considering whether to s.end the President the Senate wel- fare bill, which the President endorsed over the harsher House welfare bill. President Clinton may be in a bind if Congress sends hirn the leg- islation. If Pl'esident Clinton signs it, he could alienate lib- erals in his party, and if he vetoes the measure, he would be breaking a campaign pledge to \end welfare as we know it.\ People originally thought Bill Clinton would sign the compromise welfare plan brokered by the House and Senate, but he veto~d it. * State Govemors have to pre- pare their budgets with grow- ing uncertainty of how much federal money will be coming to them. If the federal money is not forthcoming, the Gov- ernors will have to cut more state spendirt-&.· measures, which could hav~ damaging effects throughout the state's welfare and other programs. \ * It is ten years since the fate- ful Challenger space shuttle blew up 8.9 n1iles above the Atlantic Ocean, in 1986. For the families of the astronauts each day is a memory of those last 73 seconds. · * American worl<ers are in- · creasingly fearful of exercis- ing their p:ower of1 a strike be.- cause they worry about job security .and replacement· workers, even in the midst of large downsizing operations. Last year's strikes fell to their lowest levels since World War · · H. * A half a billion dollars, fif- teen years, and mismanage- ment has produced an air traf~ .fie contml system that is years from being finished and is al- ready obsolete with the current .technology available. The Jriajor airlines say there are 20,000 delays a day due to air traffic control. The cost to the airlities is $5 billion a. year, which is no doubt passed on to commuters. ~' The Milking o( the Students by Michelle Neier W(lrld News Staff A· few weeks ago my parents re- ceived m.y latest tuition bill, In- cluded in the ·liost was art extra lah fee along· wifh.;il charge fer a ballet class (this ballet class I participated' . in-but di~.npt get qredit for because I was given the impression that I · Q(}uld au~it the class for free), Ai the same time that these extra dl~arges Wete ~gded to my already enom1oti:S tuition bjll, colleges and' . · ;univ~rsities· a~ros~ ,t},le coUJ,l..try ae-. fually lowered theinuition. , Ac- cotdingto are~entNew YorkoTimes artide by Peter Applebome, highly presl;i,giQ'Qs sG.Iiools ~uch as. the Urn- versity of Rochester and Lehigp Univer~lty haye offered tuition re- , ductions. Also; .. a!J ivy league school, Prince:;ton: announced that it would raise: tuition the smallest amount in 28 years. Applebome · .oalso ''Wrdte; th~J ~~ . .Year ;l;he aver~. age· tuition will increase 6 percent while in 1991-1992 tuition in- creased an average of 12 percent. This article raised the point that tu- ition increases are for the most part in favor of middle class families who cannot afford a large college tuition, yet are not eligible for fi- nancial aid. Where does this leave me? My parents have been put into a posi- tion where it was virtually impos- sible for them; 1 to say no to sending tne here fot school, yet costs keep rising. As if the tuition increases were not enough, there are always hidden fees we are not aware of. One rnain example is the phone service. As a student here~ there is only- one long distance service we. can use. We are never told what the rates we are paying are, however. In this respect,. as col· lege students, we are left with few rights. Either we. use the JJhone service provided, or we need ·to go through the hassle of using a long distance. calling card from a rna• jor phone company. . When Donna Shalala, Secntary of Health and Human Senices, visited, she supported the idea of small liberal arts .colleges, espe· cially Union: Yet she is. n<it the one beingfaced with the enorlllous burden of paying to come to school here. While we are being faced with more and more tuition increases, the :ijnl}t).cial aid office often de- cides to cut aid to the people who were originally promised it and have come to count on it. One person, for instance, came 'here and agreed to play a sport. After quitting the team because he felt his grades were suffering from it, his aid package was cut by $7,000 for the next year. Now his par- ents are forced to take on extra· jobs, and he is wondering ifhewill need to transfer next year. It is un- likely that this young man's fam- Uy income changed so cfrastically as to wanant such a large. drop in his financiai aid. Sadly enough, because of their unjust aid policies, the school may lose one of.its most hardworking and intelligent mem- bers. Some might wonder if .there is any answer to the school's di- lemma. There is a need to improve the physical aspect of the, campus, yet at the same time many students are clamoring for a chan,ge in the economical aspects. It seems that Cornell University may have one possible solution. Over the past five years they have had the largest fund-raising drive in the history of higher edu.cation, resulting in an extra $1.5 billion for the· schools endowment. Along with improv- ingthe universities facilities, the money is also going to be used for an increase in financial aid. This money has now doubled Cornell's endowment per student. It is likely that Union would· be a perfect school to organize such a fund- raiser. With the large numbers of alumni, many of whom are wealthy, thereis little doubtthatthis school would also be able to raise large amounts of money. If the school continues with its plan for the next century without worrying about the needs of all of the stu- dents, they may regret it in the fu- ture. Hopefully, the administration will start to make changes before it is too late.

. ..,. World News The Importance of History Greater Triumph in Tragedy byAnandRao Worltl News Staff As a histoty major, I am of- ten ridiculed by some of my science-oriented 'classmates who believe that the studying of history is ofllttle value to the human race. I beg to differ, and so do many others. Few issues generate more controversy than the question of how to teach. history in America's schools and universities. How one is taught the subject of history, in particular Atnerican history, profoundly influences one's perception of this country and the world. I11 teaching history, a person can use one of two general methods. One cm1 teach his- tory through tl'le eyes of politi- cians, businessmen, and aristo- crats. Oiie of my professors referred to this method as the teaching of history \from the top down.\ In other words, this method ofteaching history con- fonns to the ideas and beliefs of the privileged classes. The students, by this first method, view the past tl1rough the eyes of persons wl10\have rarely known poverty, starvation, or destitution. An alternative method that one can employ in teaching his- tory is what some people might call a '~people's history.\ In the words of my professor, this is history \from the bottom up,\ or the worldas seen through the eyes of ordinary people. In a course which concentrates on teaching history from the bot- tom up, a student can read about the lives of factory work- ers, peasants, and impoverished females who were forced into the world ofprostitutim1. A sht- dent can get an understanding of what life was really like for the vast majority of the world's people. As a result, this method of teaching history is often less dogmatic, less dry, and very fas- cinating to the reader. In the United States~ up until recently, histoty courses in sec- ondary schools and universities were usually content to teach history througlt the eyes of the privileged classes. As a student in high scl10ol, I remember reading the speeches and other writings of privileged men like Thomas Jefferson, Andrew Carnegie, Abraham Lincoln, and Woodrow Wilson. I saw America through their optimis- tic, prejudiced, and sheltered eyes. ;Decades ofteaching Ameri- can history from the top doWii indoctrinated the citizens of this country witl1 a false patrio- tism. Because students were rarely taugl1t the cruel truth about slavery, the industrial revolution, and the subjugation of women, many ofthem came to believe that America was a country with an incomparably kind and wonderful history. In recent years, however, the teaching of history from the top down has finally met its chal- lenge. This is where the controversy begins. An increasing number of American schools and col- leges are finally reali~ing the importance of teaching history from the bottom up. TI1is is due to the fact that there is simply no alternative to teaching stu- dents the whole truth, and noth- ing but the truth. American education owes nothing less to its students. Although students are still required to read the writings of slave-owning . aris- tocrats like George Washington and Thomas Jefferso11, they are also required to read the diaries of slaves, factory workers, .and socialist agitators. The increas- ing prevalence of the people's history in American schools and universities has hindered the ability of right-wing conser- vatives to continue their desired indoctrination of America's youth. Students of all backgrounds n-::>w seriously doubt that the United States is the world's greatest country, because the people's history has taught them that this country has a past filled with an appalling level of human suffering and bloodshed. Right-wing conser- vatives are outraged by this de- velopment. Although the bloody truth of American his- tory cannot be denied, some of the privileged in this country don't want you to know about .it. They would rather keep you ignorant and blindly patriotic so that you don't question the established order in this coun- try. What I am trying to say is that for the privileged people of this country, the teaching of history has ftmctiol1ed as a fonn of mind control, but as our na- tion has matured these people are losing their ability to con- trol the teaching of history. Looking at the past through the eyes of ordinary people, young and educated Americans like myself now find themselves wondering why, in 1996, a very small percentage of the Ameri- can people control more than one-half of the nation's wealth. Such thinking among Am~ric~Cs youth frightens the. wealthy because people my age will serve as the leaders of this country in the twenty-first cen- tury. I hope that those persons who have read this article have a greater appreciation of the sub- ject of history. The revolution currently taking place in the teaching of history has already affected the minds of millions of young Americans, including myself. My view of this coun- try will n¢ver be the same again. For an idea of how American history can change your view of the world, I sug,... gest you read A People 's His- tory of the United States by Howard Zinn, This is .a brutal, unsanitized look at a subject which many students find dry and boring. Zinn, however, wisely avoids the history of America as viewed by Franklin Roosevelt and Hency Kissinger. Instead, he explores American history through the eyes of the masses. This is the sort of his- tory that even an engineer might enjoy. World News Question of the Week: Do you support the in- ternational agreenients over trade, such as NAFTA and GATT? Would you support ex- pansion of NAFT A to Europe to create a North Atlantic Free Trade block that would estab- lish a bulwark against the growing power of the Yen Block? Would United States' interests be better served by puU- ing out of the World Trade Organization when we are legally al- lowed to do so, while re- specting free trade, or should the U.S. promote economic Nationalism? Survey Re- sults! ().9°/o responded, . which is incomp~etc foa· actual use. The . rest oft he campus did. not bother to respond •. by Matt Sandler World News Editor Events that are recorded in history are finite tliings with a start, middle, and end. History is the categorizing of events that will lead to a definitive ac• count in years to come. If the event is ended in the 1600's, or 1900's, what relevance does it have on my day to day activi• ties? It is true that history is a permanent record, but what his- tory has the power to do is tra.tl- scend the time period that it was enclosed in. People today can read and understand the history and use it. Hist()ry is not a dead subject. A war that may have ended hundreds of years ago is finished, but the underlying tension of that war, the ethnic or religious hatred, is still in people's consciousness today. TI1e war in Bosnia is a case in point. Even though the war has ended due to the Dayton peace process, the underlying ten- sions are still there and will re- main there for a long time. By understanding history, politi- cians have a basis of under- standing why things happened, how they happened, how to avoid them, and how to be more successful in the future. By understanding what happened, even though the situations are not the same today, people and countries are in a better posi- tion to move forward. TI1is is the significance of history. TI1e preceding article talked about differing ways history is taught in the United States. The \top down\ approach, which is described as the patri- otic idealist view of American history is giving way to \a bot- ton1 up\ approach, called the people's histOJy; where ordinary citizens are detailed with all their trials and tribulations. What is important here is that both sides are being presented. Perhaps a balanced view of both, which could be described as a middle out strategy, shou] d become the teaching model. It is important to understand the political, business, and military leaders, but so too is it impor- tant to understand the ordinary citizens that built this country as well. Without people will- ing to break away and pioneer different parts of the country, the country would not be what jt is now. Each person's .con- In the failed effort to get greater participa- tion through H survey, I .. ~lm wondering ·why ·~ ' am nctually taldng the time to ac..h·crtise for \Yodd :--.iews secW:m. · · wrifet·s •. · But if you ·would l.ilie to w r·ite, p~e~tse contact \tatt Sandler at x61 55 - · STOPTUE .\P;\TIIY! . ; <tribution is no less sigt:lificant. · The greatest asset that the United States has is the build- ing block of American coopera- tion. From the farmer, to the school teacher, to the industrial worker, ahdtheimmigrant, arid yes, the political and business leaders too, America is the a product of all of them. In the times of our history some groups were treated unfairly, but in the end, the process was corre~ted. Change takes time. Where is this headed? I be- lieve that the Ul1ited States is a country that is rich in many ways. Economically an.d ma- terially we are rich, but this wealth is also a product of who we are as free Americans as well. Only by seeing what was wrong can we realize what is good. Also, understanding what ha,ppened can prevent fu- ture injustices. Our country was built by people, and people have prejudices and make mis- takes. The United States is per• fect in concept, but in reality it is inevitably less than our ide- als. Thoreau wrote, \Build your. castles in the air, that is where they should be, but now pt~t the foundation under them.\ TI1is putting a secme \foundation\ under our goals and the priori- ties we seek for the future is . what the budgefbattle is about. The fact that injustice occurred, for example, demonstrates the imperfection in the history of the United States, but that does not undercut what the United States represents. Look at all the people who risk their life to reach this country. If that is not a testimony to the greatness that this country represents, I do not know what is! Americans should grab hold of their past and never let go, carrying for- ward with a conscious eye on those injustices. TI1e past is done, while the present and fu- ture are not. As Americans we should seek to make the most of our lives and strengthen our country. What happened in the past should not make us ashamed of who we are, rather it should strengthen our deter- mination to protect the future from the mistakes of the past. There is an understandable blemish on our history, but let our future actions be more a mark of who we are. Instead of looking for the divisions that we all have, being a nation of immigrants, let us look for our similarities. I am not the first to admit that I am proild to be an American. To close, our his- tory is not an impediment, but a chance at greatness. , ·' .• ·'

... •! ;~ Have an idea? . ·. ~- ' , '... r~ You c.a~n .make.a---·· .' ,.· . . ' ·· .... patent from it! . t ·, • (Seminars in , ' ·-. ~ . patent law). , I } I Before entering the real world it is ad- vantageous for students, especially those · who see their future in the high-tech or · entertainment industry, to be· familiar with procedures required to sucyessfully see an ,idy~.m~~~;fro~J~;aper to the.l!1~r~. ket place. :A.series··of seminars wi~h paterit a#omeys'arid professio~als in en-, gineering and medical technology fields will familiarize students with basic con- cepts of patent law and with modern mechanisms necessary to move a ere- . ative idea from an inception to a t:nar· ket. Proposed by ~rof.' Moskovets, As- sistant Professor, Physics/Engineering; Reinis Kanders, EE/CS major, Timur Khromaev, Eco major; Eta Kappa Nu, the EE honor society; and the Econom- ics Student Club. Contact Prof. Moskovets, X6053. <ITan.c.arbi.tnsis Februa Are:o·ur credit-card numbers ~ ... -;~ \ .fmally safe on the Net? by Akin Sa:Wyera~ · Contributing W~i~er the Internet .and retail compa- nies may tak¥ the initiative of starting mail-order services on- line. The universal system will It has long been awaited oy also curb the problem that may .. society' and now it has hap- have arisen if different formats . Pt:ned. . Visa and Mastercard ofthe system were developed. .have agreed ·to· an ·industry- · \Wewon'thavetofacetheis- standard technologythat pro- · sue of competing standards,\' vides security ofc:Fedit-'card s.aid Taher Elgamal, chiefscien- payments over thk' Internet. tistofNetscape. Netscapeplans This newte~hnolo~ forces.tl,le to incorporate the newtechnol- '· Microsoft corpof~tion and ogy into its Navigator Web- Ne~scape co'mmun!cations to . browsing software. Microsoft !, ' quell their prolonge,g dispute on .. is also. following suit, and it will · ·the 'issue. .; · be including.this service in its . The new standard gives Explorer-softWare. .. pgp1panies on thewebasingle · The· name ofthe·system is • L Utlj~versal' means .df ensitfing S.E.T (an acronymfor':secure .·, · that on-line-credit transaet!oris ·electron ro ~transactions). ·It iafle' protected from poten'tial works by. sending o'ut credit crooks. Customers will now card number~ that have been sleep better at night knowing structurally scrambled. The that their personal credit-card scrambled number cannot be nrimbershavenothecomecom- interpreted by eavesdroppers · mon knowledge. This new ad- and pilfers. A special code will ·vancement is even more secure let merchants verify the valid- than paying for dinner with ity ofthe credit card and ensure . :yp~r c~edit yard .at~ r~~tflurcwt. that the cust@mer ·is the au tho- The system is, 1 suppo~~dJy so rized user of the card. The foolproof that computer indus- scrambling process used by the try giants like IBM have en- system is based on already ex- dorsed the product isting software known as the The system will give leaders Data Encryption Standard. For in the on-line services huge S.E.T to work, it must also be benefits. The fact that the sys- incorporated into storage tenni- tem is safe will increase the use nals that allow users to commu- of services like Netscape, and nicate on the web. Testing of · it may bring more people into S.E. Tis scheduled to begin this the world of on-line services. spring, and commercial use of Consumers will be more will- the system should start late this There are many encryption technologies more powerful than the system adopted, but they have been barred from be- ing used, The Government fears that ifthese more power- ful systems were approved, en- emies or terrorists may be able to conspire by a means that can- not be regulated effectively. The system adopted is designed to protectonly financial informa- tion. It cannot be used to ~end encrypted messages. A year ago~ Microsoft and Visa pro- posed a sec1.1ri ty standard known Secure Transaction ·Technology. Tfuey wanted their system to competewith the al- ready approved standard. Their proposal was short-lived be- cause Visa decided to pursue a single standard to avoid com- petition that could bring about problems. \We took the best of both technologies~\ said Ed- ward Hogan, senior vice presi- dent of electronic commerce at Mastercard. This innovation is just an- other step binding a lot players in the fast growing world of business and technology. The various sectors of our economy are becoming more and more intertwined and interdependent. This new service will make thing easier for we students be- cause it will mean that your nextpairofjeansmay be justa 'click' away. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__:ing to engage in transactions on year. T ef e i I e 1 ef? t~e I eaJ out of ~ ol.{r fax refur't\.. llllrn(lill ing 'll·ld:ilc· fr1tnt lhl' IllS .tlwlprulm·v. \''r\t( t·lh.tl leh ~~~~~file )otlt ll•dt·t.tl uu omt• lotl\ n~tmn in jti\(IC'n mimth•s wilh ;a. ft ct· ( .dllrum .t 'llnu h 'liult·n• plume .cio~y 111 mh•·ht .\nd .th\tllut~~ly no runn'>lumall With Ti.•lc·Fill'~JU':lt rc,(ltm \,llill'(liUIHJlh'd 111\(]ll(·llllll\ lu l.L'~ in )IIlii JlllUil\t' infulnldtiull 1\JI l~lllrir'> ,u-p H•1ifu•d and .111 m.lth J<, d1JJ1t' [m ~nu '(i:·h:Ftl(' tt•ll<, tiH' ,ulln\1111111 your tc·fnnd (h. If YU1111WP. you nlil 'il!lll.tkc·unlil .'\,nil )ljLh Ill '!CI!d )Utll du-c..k 'I,! X nlmg_ rlrlC''>ll~( ~C'l nny t'U-'Ut'l thnn I hi'> If yuu HIT 'u1gk nne I fil,·rl Ftum 10 UlEZ 1.1~1 )''\•II 'r' Hl'll fu1d ~~ Department of the TrE!asury ~&!JJI lnlemal Revenue Service (.'1w11,t.!i1lg fi•r goad. ii!TeleFile [l\ fn·(~. It',. fn~l. h work!i f? JaM • Calf f~e c; a f\d ~af\J ttf real r~bf. 1ntroducmg TeleFil~ from the IRS -- a helpful nl'w servu:e rhat lets you file your federal mcumc lax. return in just ten Minutes with a free- call from a Tnuch Tone\'' phone day or mght. And nbsulutely no fonns to mail. With TCJeFile, just follow vn1C'f' prompted instructlons to key in your income information. AH entries are verified and' all math is donP for you. Te1<>fil~ tells thr amount of your refund_ Or,,ifyou-owe, you can sli11 take until ApriJ l.'ith to send. your check. Tax filing doesn't get any easier than this. If you are single and filed Form l040£Z last year, you'll find TeleFile informa,tion in your tax booklet. Use it! ~~ Department of the Treasury ~/I Internal Revenue Service Clla11ging for good. iiiTeleFile It's free. It's fast. It works.

Now That You Have Spoken Act! It is unbelievable. We received more letters last week than all of last year. AU because we called one too many persons apathetic. Now that you have written, ACT!! Speak up!! Let your voices be heard. In the past year, the Greeks have lost their kitchens, tuition has increased and dining services were privatized. WHY? HOW? President Hull has pushed the button one to many times without our permission. Why don't we have a say? Why are we rated lowerthan every other prestigious small Hberal arts college, yet our president, and key members of his administration are paid much higher. Because we are mute. Hull controls all. He decides who gets what, and when. \Vhy is the school so frugal? Shouldn't some ofthe money spent illuminating the Nott at night go tawards lighting the American Flag? Two more lights to honor our country, why not? Why do we pay over twenty~ five thousand dollars a year and not have a doctor on duty twenty four hours a day, seven days a week at Sillman Hall? Because it costs money. Why don't we protest anymore? Hull lives on campus, knock on his door and tell him what you think. At least go to his office and speak your mind. Make an appointment, and talk with the President, he is your representative. On Founders Day all trusties and many alumni will be on campus. Have I unch with a Trusti and tell them what you think. They donate money, the gree11that makes the school run. Complain to them. Without them, Hull too is helpless, and maybe the changes necessary for a better Union will be adopted; The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 ~~f'n\. Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Evan L. Morris, Anthony C. LaVecchia EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Michelle Ellis NEWS EDITOR LarryPaska ARTS EDITOR Scott Steadman LAYOUT EDITOR Adam Richman LAYOUT EDITOR EMERITUS Rick Lederer Laurel Ruma PHOTO EDITORS Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Eric Svenson Jonathan Fader SPORTS EDITORS Matthew Sandler WORLD NEWS EDITOR Peter Sorensen FEATURES EDITOR Lisa Lemoi EXECUTIVE EDITOR David Eder Chris Richards LIVING EDITORS Dennis Pop eo SCIENCE EDITOR Tatiana Cogevina COMPUTER MANAGER Barry Eisenberg ASSIST ANT COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Richman CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Raquel Millman OPINIONS EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemillet, Laurie KirsChner, Shaun-Paul Manore. STAFF: Omar AI·Khalidi~Pavan Atluri,,EmilyBattis, JeffDruzba, Jon Gasthalter, Nalini Gupta, Mike,Leding, Adrian MacLean, Conor McKenzie Martin Metz, :Slt~vnni Meduri, Jenn Pelose, Aaron Sicotte, Aileen Quigly, K~thy Walters '. . . · . OP-ED UNION STUDENTS: ACTIVE OR APATHETIC Raquel Millman . , . ;Dpinions Editor \Do Union students really. think, or do they ju~t tb.ink that they think?\ This was the topic for the last Crosstalk held on the Union campus. When I saw the flyer advertising this topic, I was immediately appalled. The fallacy of the very concept that the Union student is not a think- ing one, made me shudder. Let's be real for a moment. Union students were all the leaders of their high schools. While for the most part they may not have had the boards of the students in Harvard and YaJe, they were the leaders. The Union student is not diverse in the aspect that this college is universally made up of the smart, fun, outgoing student near or in the top ten percent of their graduating class. Union students go far in life past gradu- ation for three reasons: they learn, they think, and then they lead. Any student should've been as appalled as I was at the idea that the Union student doesn't think. Anyone who has gone through the history/preceptorial sequence, along with require- ments ranging from civilization, the arts and literature, to science and math, should knowthat you cannot make it through Union without thinking. The Union professor stimulates thoughts fDr growth. Remember, any- one can teach, that's just put- ting stuff in; it takes a special person to actually educate and draw out from that student. What impresses me most about Greek society, etc. The Union the faculty at Union College is student is too tired to be apa- that for the most part, their lee- thetic. tures are not to Jiear the sound 'Tpe Union student will sue- of their own voices, but rather ceed in life. Just because there to hear the voices of their stu- , isn't a worldwide scandal daily dents with their own input and on the Union campus does not ideas. mean that Union students don't The Union student takes as think, that we are apathetic, or much as it needs. Some deem that we don't love Union. All it this as apathy, but in reality, the means is that we, not selfishly; Union stu- but intelli- dent is to gently, are busy to In r~ality, the Union student is more con- deal with to busy to deal with being cern e d b e i n g with our c a 11 e d called apathetic. We are over- personal apathetic. whelmed with our development g r o w t h We are and growth. Perhaps if every- than biting o v e r - off more whelmed one here could, all at once, get than we with our out all of our stresses long can chew. develop- enough to take a deep breath, If every- ment and one was growth. we would realize what a truly bouncing Perhaps i-f amazing place this is. a r o u n d everyone from club here could, all at once, get out to organization all four years, all of our stresses long enough we'd never have the handle on to take a deep breath, we would our own lives to make it in the realize what a truly amazing \real world.\ place this is. The truth is that So to all of those critics, on we do think. If anything, we Concordiensis staff, facu1ty, or think too much. We go through otherwise, stop criticizing and just ten weeks and absorb cen- start living your own life.! Per- turies ofthought, while reading haps then, you'll be able to un- masterpieces that can be ana- derstand that the true Union stu- lyzed to death, while soaking in dent does care. We care enough scientific theories that seem to to make things change when be a foreign language. We do they affect us. The real prob- all of these things, not to men- I em with the critics is their fail- tion coping with our rift be- ure to realize the war in Viet- tween our two homes. Many nam is over. College students of us add on even more by tak- can take a rest from protesting ing on a part in a show, a posi- and finally concentrate on get- tion on the newspaper, being a ting the education that they are residential assistant, joining a paying for and deserve.

- .... ·.f}.('t ,,.. _?. Page .~ · ·. Fe~·ruary ~, Campus Action Voices Leftovers: A Problem That Needs to be Adressed by Concerned Voices Have you ever wondered what Dining Services does with all of those left- over \entrees?\ Besides those wonderful concoctions that they try to nourish us with, it has come to my attention that a fair amount of food has been thrown away on a daily basis. My question is whether the Marriott is using all of its \noodles\? In the past I have learned, from a Dining Service employee, that about a truck load or more ofleftovers are being thrown away each day. What better way to salvage our wasted resources than by coming to the aid of the needy. Union is constantly promoting community involvement and better relations with the Schenectady area. In order for these proclamations to come to pass, the Union community needs to see that those less fortunate than us are being helped in the best way possible. In this case the best way would be to collaborate with Meals on Wheels or a similar type of organization that pro- vides free meals to those who are homeless, elderly or shut-in. The three basic necessities of life are food, shelte.r, and clothing. Dining Services can definitely provide food to the needy if they use their resources oorrectly. Although, it must be noted that this situation of excess food could be rem- edied using a slightly different tactic. If Dining Serveices took time out to prepare the food properly, less food would be likely to be wasted. This is especially the case with the meat. Why is it that certain types of meat look like \Bloody Mary's\? Some people might like their meat rare, but there are a number of people who eat their meat well-done. Dining Services should accommodate students with choices as to how they would like their meat prepared. Although, the Marriott has implemented a new range of ''variety,\ \variety\ is pointless if quality is lacking. In essence, Dining Services must be more efficient in their disposal-offood and in the way they prepare their food. They can kill two birds with one stone by simply providing the needy of the Schenectady community with food and helping Union students enjoy a \well-cooked\ meal. OPENED A BOOK LATELY? by Henrik Haeckel Contributing Writer ' ' A walk into the open air space, with books looking down at me, a phone ringing loudly to my left, and some noise coming from straight ahead, I wonder whom I wiii run into tonight. I take my customary path through the library: first into the former all night study area, where I am greeted by the same old faces buried in their books or avidly discussing something, I then make a quick about face and head up stairs into the newspaper reading area, and plant myself in a soft vinyl chair bought some time in the seventies or earlier. Sometimes I get a lot of work done more often I do not, but that is not the point. I am working regardless. From time to time it has come to bother me that there are students, and not such a small minority, who are not here to learn or even to work. I see the same faces in the library day in day out. Rarely ever does the library ever crowd, except of course in the desperate last minute finals week. Who are these students who inhabit the library, these library rats? Some of them are peoplewith little else in their life other then work; often these individuals suffer from lack of social skills, hence the condemnation to library hell. Yet, for the most part these library rats are students who c~me here to learn. Typically these types of students are engineers or pre-med students, but this is notentirely true. The com- mon link among all library rats is the urge, desire, or compulsion to do well aca- demically, to achieve a degree of classroom success. These are not students avoiding AW or a dean's vacation, these are students who want to do well, get good jobs, and hopefully lead good lives. These students are not better people then anyone else or more intelligent but they are aware oftheir responsibility. We are here not, only to grow as individuals and find our way in life through the experiences we accumulate outside the class but are here to leam how to construct and design the unimaginable, to learn how to health others, to learn how to enhance the lives in our society, and to learn how to earn a lot of money. Whatever our reasons maybe, weare still here to learn. That is why it disturbs me to here about people bragging about opening a book in their stay here that they are sliding along just fine. To me that is nauseating. Not only are you wasting your time you are also wasting my time because your idle brain drags the pace of my class down. You are inhibiting my learning. So I would like you to do me a favor and leave. OP/ED \The Almighty Editor?\ To Sir Editor,The Almighty, You are right! I didn't write a letter to the editor last week therefore you can condemn me as being apathetic. As a matter of fact, it is not just me who is apathetic but the entire Union commu- nity. Hell, as you say, I am even apa- thetic about my apathy! Here is the truth. I am sick and tired of being called apa- thetic. Just because I don't waste my valuable time to respond to your week (sic) attempts at being intellectually stimulating does not mean that I am apa- thetic. So, in the last two weeks you have only gotten one letter to the editor, and rather than conclude that you were doing something wrong, you found Union's favorite scapegoat, apathy. If you were to read your own newspaper you would see on every page that Union students are not apathetic. Hundreds showed up to see Donna Shalala speak in a facility seating about 50 people, there is the boys and girls club (sic), over 30 people dedicating each night to different theaterprojects, U-med, Womyn's union (sic), not to mention the many sports teams, this is not the sign of apathy. On Dear Concordy the contrary, this is the sign of Union students getting involve (sic) in their own way. Yes, there may be students who are truly apathetic and think the (sic) Melrose Place is the highest on their pri- ority list, but they are just the minority. Think of all the .different things that Union students do, instead of concen- trating on what they don't do. Sure, only ten people may show up to meet the editor of the National Inquirer, but think of what they were doing, perhaps a little more productive than hearing about Richard's latest romp with the il- legitimate baby ofMichael and Madonna. I know that next week you will see all the responses to your accusations and say, \see we made you respond to us and now your (sic) not apathetic.'' I think the truth is that you need to fill space in your newspaper, and why not sit on your throne and pass judgment. Next time you have writer's block go back to insulting dinning (sic) services, because I am too bored with reading about my apathy. Sincerely, Doug Schneider '98 Judgement is not what I normally pass on the throne. -J:.:d In the article regarding inte1Iectual life outside the classroom, the description of my project neglected to include me as a sponsor and neglected to include my phone number. Could you either include an ad or addendum that corrects that so interested parties will know how to contact me and I can get moving on the activity. The project was on \talk shows\ and the sponsor is Professor Greenberg; phone is 6259 and E-mail is greenbes@gar etc. I would appreciate you placing this infor- mation in this week with a note to respond soon so that we could begin to organize this term. Thanks, Seth Greenberg - · U Can Help Schenectady ' . Program Volunteers Sought for Boys and Girls Clubs Are you, or is a friend of yours, willing to share a skill that might improve a kid's chance to become a responsible adult? The Boys and Girls Clubs of Schenectady are seeking program volunteers for their six locations in Schenectady and Rotterdam. Current programs, and those that might spring from your own ideas, all need vohmteer staffing. Interactive social, intellec- tual, and athletic skills development are among the potential program areas that foster a rewarding sense of accomplishment in both kids and volunteers. Please contact Louise Di Fabbio, Director of Operations (374-4714), or Bruce Macdonald, Program Committee Chair(395-6677 day, 372-0725 night), if you'd like to help make a difference.

by Jen Lawless Last week, Ben Fox wrote an editorial entitled \America: Good or Bad?,\ in which he ex- plained that President Clinton, as Commander in Chief, has failed to live up to the duties, responsibilities, and decisions his office requires. Subse~ quently, Fox asserts that he pre- fers to pledge his allegiance to one of the Republican candi- dates in the November election. While partisan politics is cer- tainly a divisive issue, for 57% of men and women do vote along party lines, the fact re- mains that Fox claims his sup- port for either Dole or Forbes is completely divorced from their G.O.P. status; rather, he avers that he will vote for \any- one who is intelligent, has good character, and is well-re- spected.\ If such is the case, and Fox is, in fact, not criticiz- ing Clinton merely because he is a Democrat and feels about key issues with a significantly more liberal attitude than does Fox, the entire editorial is inane. After all, the article not only fails to specify any stands away from which Clinton has shied, but it also neglects to acknowl- edge the progress that he has made, both domestically and in- ternationally, since assuming office. Essl~y~~il!e;iliat !~ ~ pw-~l~o~!~resi~ney. It style and lack of analysis cui- sued on behalf of women? Is is essential to recognize that just minate to propose a weak argu- there any truth to the fact that because Fox disagrees with this ment that insults the nation and Fox, perhaps, resents assis- progress does not negate the fact the citizens he claims to hold in tance to th.e poor and the that it is progress, nonetheless. such high esteem. downtrodden, men and Ultimately, it is vital to com- \The chiefresponsibilit[ies] women who are reliant on menton Fox' accusations that all of our President [are] to assess governmental assistance until Clinton has accomplished inter- where we are as a country, they get back on their feet? nationally is endangering the lives where we should be as a coun- Rather than admit his own of Americans. in places where try.\ and how to attain that po lack of compassion as the root ''America has little or no inter- sitiOn. Fox contends that cause of his desire to vote Re- est.\ In an era of globalization Clinton is unable to deal with publican, Fox prefers to chalk and interdependence, countries such obligation, though, be- his decision up to the Demo- increasingly rely on one cause he is too preoccupied crats', and more specifically, another's resources. This reli- . choosing his attire for the State Clinton's, lack of a platform ance cannot ce.ase at an eco- of the Union address and pia- and policy. nomic level, though. While Fox eating Hillary. If Fox actually Fox digs himself deeper in does not seem to realize, or care, watched the State of the Union a hole when he proceeds to that the hUirian rights, social poli- address, he would be cognizant condemn Clinton's MTV in- cies, and political structures are of the fact that Clinton outlined terviews and saxophone play~ of equal importance to the eco- his agenda, past , present, and in g. He asks rhetorically, nomic ·contributions with which future. Health care, education, \Don't you have a country to these countries may be able to crime, unemployment, and de- run? Did you run out ofprob• provide the United States. It is a fense were only among the lems to solve?\ Fox is either relief to know that our President plethora of issues on which caught in a 1992 time warp, has not lost sight of the fact. Clinton spoke and is providing during which Clinton was Sending troops to Bosnia to leadership. If Fox has neither campaigning for the support eliminate ethnic cleansing, or in- the time nor the inclination to of young voters so that he vesting time and money in devel- acknowledge that Clinton holds would be given the opportu~ oping countries,. while trivial and strong views on each of these nity to solve the nation's prob- unimportant to Fox, are of in- issues, it is important to ask lems, or he has simply ignored credible importance to the entire why. Could it be because Fox Clinton's progress over the last international world; it is irrelevant vehemently disagrees with three years. Unemployment that we may not be able to ex- Clinton's pro-education, anti- and inflation decreases, wei- tract from them, at this particu- crime, defense down-scaling, fare and health care reform Jar time, ec<;momic benefits. and middle-class tax cut propos- proposals, minority advance- A\)cruing financial rewards is not als? Could there be some truth ment, and civil rights and lib- the sole reason behind Clinton's in the fact that Fox. opposes the erti.f!s gu~antees ¥e directly fo:reign policy involvement, nor should it be. Once again, be- cause Fox begs to differ, rather than. argue. his point, he, instead, dismisses the existence of Clinton's policy. · Fox' entire editorial rests on the assumption that his audience is unaware of the advancements and policies behind the Clinton administration. Unfortqnately, . he has argued with the wrong group of people- we are all in- telligent college students who read the newspaper and follow current events. If Fox has missed the headlines over the course of the last three years, the headlines which traced Clinton's domestic and foreign policies and progress, it is un- fortiJnate. Most of us know that such is not tl1e case; Fox knows exactly what Clinton ha-s ac- complished, but because he dis- agrees and is unable to articu- late an argument that could sway people to his· side, he pre- tends that Clinton has no agenda and hopes that men and women will believe bim. At the end of his article, Fox asks Clinton to remind him how much he would like to hold the office of the President. All that I can 'hope is that no one with the shallow line of reasoning and inane dismissal of key events, policies, and progress will ever hold any important public office. ·. - . -- . . · - ._ ·. OP-ED . . .... . t • ' . My School, My Mom, My Broken Heart by Jeffery Druzba Once again, another Valentine's Day approaches and, to tell you the truth, I'm not too excited. There's a rea- son for my lack of enthusiasm on this most important of holi- days though. The answer is el- ementary school and my . mother. Why elementary school? I, like every kid in my classes, was made to bring in valentines for every other kid in my class, forced to exchange with types I didn't even know or would rather not. By the end of the day, I would have a little pouch, made out of red and white con- struction paper, hanging off the front of my desk, that had thirty or more inside. Yes, even Rachel M. got valentines, but I think even she knew, at our young age then, that we were forced to. In my elementary school, teachers' sad attempts to somehow create a commu- nist valentine state, Rachel was still singled out. Maybe the teacher didn't know what was up, and there is no way Rachel could have known, but, every one of us, without any planning, reserved the worst valentines in the package for Rachel. It was the thing that had to be done and we all knew it. You single out the bad valentines for the people you don't like. It's as simple as that. Yes~ I'm bitter for being forced to correspond, at so young an age, with other kids l didn't like, although minimally (i.e. \Your friend, Jeff.\ care- fully written in pencil). That's not all of it though. At that tender age, in the first half of the eighties, do you know what it was like to be the guy who s~nt out the lame valentines reminiscent of the 1920's? I would have loved to have lived in the '20's, don't get me wrong. This was the eighties though, a childhood based on the mon- etary competition of how much your mother spent on valen- tines. At a time when all the other kids were sending out val- entines from Looney Tunes, GI Joe, or Barbie, my mother was being the thrifty one by not go- ing for that extra dollar more and, instead, getting the 1920's Camptown Races Nostalgia Pak (or something similar in name). I don't know where they were from or what the real name on the package was. All I know is that they all contained the words \gosh\ or \swell\ in them. Most of them had something like a picture of some boy with a cute puppy dog at his feet giving a big heart to some blond girl while saying, \You're swell. Be mine, valentine.\ So, when it came time to write all the val- entines out for school the next day (as if it was hard work to write \Your friend, Jeff.\) the other kids were giving Rachel their least liked valentines while I was giving her my most embarrassing one. The one with the really cute pic- tures. The low-key ones I saved for friends. Parents just don't know how it is sometimes. Yet, I've always imagined Valentine's Day as something else. A day when you tell that special someone that you think they're, how should I say it.. .. swell. \Gee I really like you a lot.\ Not a lot to ask from a holiday. No cheez valentines from relatives. I know my grandma loves me al- ready. A day to tell that crush that yes, you have been stalking them in a sad attempt to say hello to them everyday. A day to tell that guy or.·girlfriend that you do love them even though you tell them every day ab'out twenty times al- ready. A day to tell that spouse~ \Gee snook-urns, I remember why I married you. I like you a lot!\ A day to send valentines to box 518 in the Reamer Center if you have any heart. Last Week's Cartoon Challenged To the Editor, I am sad to admit that the society in which we live in may see the cartoon on the editorial page of the February 1st concordiensis as funny. Haven't women been disrespected in society enough? Does our own newspaper have to be used as a tool of more disdain? I never thought the \B\ word would be put into print by the staff of our beloved concordy. As a contributing writer of the Concordiensis and a member of the Union College community, I hope a letter like mine would not have cause to show up in the concordy again. Carry on with the good work guys (and gals). ' .I '

Page _Jl Fe~ruary 8, 1996 'Cll:qe <aoncttrbieusis ' The Screening Roon1 hy LawTence Paslw, Arts l:.~tfiwr Leaving Las Vegas: Nicholas Cage's Award-VVinning Portrayal of an Alcoholic \Leaving Las Vegas.\ Starring Nicholas Cage, Elizabeth Shue, Julian Sands. Directed by Mike Figgis. Rated R, United Artists Pic- tures. RaJing: ***l/2 (out offour) Ben Sanderson is an alcoholic. As he points out in the film's opening scenes, \ldon't remem- ber if I started drinking because my wife,Jeft me, ormywife left me because I started drinking.\ He is also a movie scriptwriterwho ge~ .fired after his alcoholism affects his job. Burning all his worldly .possessions (including a picture of him wit:hbis wife and achilq), he sells his house and drives to Las Vegas. His plan: to drink him- self to death. In .a rented motel room, he sits with his bag ofcloth- ing and a hundred bottles- he is a walking bar. On the streets of Las Vegas, he meets a prostitute named Sera (expertly played by Shue), and does not wish to take advantage of her but wants to have her as company in the last days ofhis miserable existence. Tnisfiim isbilled as .. alovestory.\ However, this is one romance you won't want to take a date to. /,eavin~ Las Vegas opens in a bar and never sees its main character put down a bottle ofbooze for a minute. Sera begins to develop an affection for Ben, realizing he doesn't want her for physical pleasure but rather companion- ship. This is her weakness. She wants someone to be around her and care for her and accepts the terms that she is not to interfere with his drinking. In return, he moves.into her apartment and the two spend their time together boozing it up and providing each other with emotional support. To say that Cage gives the per- formance of his career is a gross understatement. With darkened eyes, he looks and acts a drunk, but also gets down into the soul of alcoholism. Indeed, alcohol abuse itself is not made up· only of wild, spontaneous gestures and slurred speech; for Sanderson, it is the very heart of his desire to die, intensified by his new Jove for Sera. It is doubtful he is sober for one minute with her, yet he finds solace in the time he spends in am indless state with her to share problems. Jn one ef- fective dramatic scene, Sanderson wakes up in the middle of the night decompensating. He rushes to a refrigerator, pours him- self a mixed quart of vodka. and orange juice, and swallows the entire drink. His body finallycalm- ing, he dimbs into bed with Sera, as if nothing had happened. The point from which he can no )()nger turn back has been reached~ yet he still has no desire to rehabili- tate himself. Shot in l6mm, the film maintains a gritty feel, as if we arc watching a home video of Ben's I ifc. In- deed, the story is a fictional i1.cd autobiography of the writer's own experiences, and what is haunt- ing is that the writer died shortly before the film's release. Figgis, who also composed the film's jazzy inusical score, throws real- ism \in your face\- the \d()cu- mentary\ quality avoids l>Vcr- bearingcamera trickery, making the streets of Las Vegas appear unstaged and reflecting the feel that in a big city. one man can feel alone. While the fi-lm is not for the weak-hearted, it is also not for those who nitpick at every detail. Although the entire two.-hour film drowns us in Sanderson's I iquor, the story never fully explaiAs what his job actually was, why his wife and child ·left him, and what drov:c him to drink in the first place. Like- wise, while Sera agrees never to interfere in his drinking, as she falls in love with him more, wouldn't she be a bit more com- pelled to hold onto him, seeing as she \needs\ someone so desper- ately? Insteadoftrying to answer any questions, the story asks yOU on I y to accept the fact that Sanderson drinks and wants to die. While the result is effective (because the film never becomes an effort to sit through), it loses 112 a star for glossing over plot details. In the end, Cage deserves his Golden Globe Award for BestAc- tor in this film. He has matured greatly in movies over the past year, turning in a solid perfor- mance in Barbet Schroder's re- make of classic film noir, Kiss of JJealh. Figgiscrcatcsan emotion- ally-draining story that has merit in depicting the waste oflife that results from substance abuse. He also litters the film with surpris- ing cameos (including Lou Rawls as a cabdriver). When you sec Leaving Las Vegas, you'll he leaving ~he the- ater in a very depressed state. , HAROLD LOHNER RECEN\f PRI'NTS AND f)RAWINCiS SILENT HEROES JANUARY 29- MARCH I, I 996 UNION COLLEGE ARTS ATRIUM :OPEN DAlLY 9AM--6PM 1/arold Lohner. untitled, 1995 Arts & Entertainment Union College Choir . Concert This Weekend by Lawrence Paska Arts Editor The Union College Choir and Orchestra, .under the direction of Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, will perfonn in a concert with the combined choirs of Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI), Wells College and Regis College this Sunday, February 11. The concert, to be held in the Memorial Chapel at 3 PM, is free and opento the public. lt is expected that over 100 students from the other three schools will be making up the \combined choir,\ and over-! 40 singers in all will take to the stage. The works to be performed are .1. S. Bach's Magnificat and Stravinsky's Symphonyef Psalms. The concert marks an annual tradition between the schools. For the past few years, the Union College Choir has been performing at WPI with these groups and the New England Chorale. A concert in April 1994 featured a perfonnance of Carl Orff' s classic piece, Carmina Burana. Local Arts Calendar This Week Sunday, February II .... New York's The Traveling Playhouse will perfonn its second of four offerings at the Empire Center at The Egg with a performance of Rumpelstiltskin on Sunday, February II at 3 PM. The company performed Hansel & Gretel earlier this season and will return in the Spring with performances of The Emporer 's New Clothes on March 16, and Pinocchio on April21. Tickets for this perfonnance are $7. For further information and reservations, contact the Empire Center at The Egg Box Office~ 473-1845. Monday, February 12 Cabaret entertainer Steve Brinberg brings his long- . running cabaret tour-de-force, Simply Bar bra, to the Empire Center at The Egg on Monday, February 12 at 8 PM. Brinberg captures Streisand's standards (Ever- green, Funny Girl) in what New York critics have called an '\on-target vocal recreation ofStrcisand with totally natural, stylized mannerisms and perfectly played vocal inflections.\ I3rinberg has perfonned Simp~v Bar bra for nearly two years to sold-out houses in New York City. Tickets for this performance are $18 for adults and $16 for seniors and children 12 and under. For further infonnation and reservations, contact the Empire Center at The Egg Box Office, 473-1845. 75 years • of mUSIC 89.7 £I~ WRUC

. Arts & Entertainment m~e <n:nnturbiett!!ihS • February 8, 1996 .• P~ge 12 Fl LM FO,R UM - Mid- Te1~111 GetaJvay h.r Rof~L'n Noy .. Jrl\ c ·otunllwr ·- ' - was the w.orstpiece of trash I've ever seen next to the cardboard that passes for chicken at Upperclass. In the movie. Kevin Costnerplaysthishalf-man,half- movie star who swims underwa- VCR to watch the movie again (I like to l.ook for symbolism), the water had ruined the tape. The video wouldn't play in the ma- chine, and when we returned it to Lacklllster, the sales lady rudely Wtiterwor/d, the most waterlogged film in history. Distraught. but not penniless, we rented Backdraft. because we thought the scenes of fires would warm us up- a blizzard on Satur- into the fire, as a symbol ofthe fire that t!}ged in her heart watch- ing these firefighters act helpless to stop an arson. Let me tell you all about my ex- citing weekend. It all began when Yolanda(my girlfriend who just last week received a bid from Gamma Deltalota,orGDI), Casper (my friend who believes in ghosts), and I hopped into Casper's Pinto and headed for Cape Cod to spend time on the beach. lt'sbeen so chilly up here lately, I thought the nice~ warm weather on the Cape would do us some good. Well, Waterworldwas the worst piece of trash I've ever seen next to the cardboard that passes for chicken at Upperclass ... Of course, as we packed to leave, we realized that we owed Lackluster an explanation about their burned videotape. Fortu~ nately, I had the bright idea to use my fake Lackluster ID to rent the tapes, which meant I char;ged the :tapestoan account named \Oliver Stone.\ We high-tailed itoffthe Cape and back into the beautiful .metropolis of Schenectady. Yolanda, Casper and 1 vowed never to go to the beach in the middleofFebruary again-.· the weather was simply too unpre• dictable. As for Lackluster, I read in The New York 'Times the follow- ing day that director Oliver Stone \Vas wanted by the Lackluster Corporation on charges of de- stroying private property and avoidingpaymentoffines. I won- der who he thin_!(~ con~.pked againsth1in'fn tliafact?' .. We got to our motel, a nice little dive on the ocean that afforded us plenty of scenery and cost us dearly. I had no idea it was going to be so cold there! We couldn't go on the beach at all~ the tem- perature outside was 10 degrees, and .it snowed the night we ar- rived. Undeterred, but still wanting to enjoy something related to \wa- ter\ and the \ocean the three of us drove to Lackluster Video and rented Waterworld. The sales- clerk told us the movie sucks, but I told her, \so does the Cape on a snowy day.\ Well, Waterworld ter with gills and: kills bad guys. DennisHopper playsanevil pet- son with an eye-patch who wants to find Dryland before his ship, The Exxon Valdez, runs out of oil. Hopper actually pays homage to Christopher .Plummer in Star Trek VI, except he doesn't have the moustactiethat made Plummer's evil Klingon so convincing. There were jokes that Waterworlcl floated to the top of the box office over the summer. hut I wanted to see if the video- tape floated as well as the movie. so I dropped the videocassette into a pitcher full of water. Sure enough, it floated to the top, but when we p~t the tape back in the ask~d us what happened to it. I told her, .. look, lady. we're sur- rounded by an ocean, of course the tape's going to get wet:' Not approving of this remark. she told uswe would have to pay for the cost of replacing the tape .. $100. .. That's not fair,\ I cried, .. the film isn't worth the money it cost to see it.'\ The lady then reminded me how expensive the film was to make· $180 million,.thc most costly film in history. \Surely it wasn't fair to the studio to spend all that money on the movie, but they did. Now shouldn't you?\ she an- swered .. Understanding her anal- ogy, thethree of us forked over $100 for a soaked copy of Performi11g ArtsUNION Upcoming Eve11ts - Winter 1996 St. Cecilia Orchestra, Peter /Jay, ( :onductor Union CollegeOrthestra andChoirContert (with choirs from WPI, Wells, Regis and Union), Hugh A !len Wilson, Conductor Beth Henley's Crimes of the Heart Saturday, February I 0 MemoriaiChapel- 8:00PM Sunday, February II Memorial Chapel-3:00PM February 2 8 • March 2 & March 6-9 Yulman Theater-8:00PM The Union College Department of Visual Arts presents Art Historian David Ogawa of Assumption College giving a lecture on \Corot and the Feeling of Seeing\ Friday, February 16, 1996 2:55 - 4:00 pm Arts Building 215 free and open to the public day night brought the tempera- ture down to -5 degrees. A lot of buildings burned in the movie, and even though Robert De Niro had a good hairstyle in the film, his back looked really ugly be- cause he received burns in a fire. Overall, Backdraft was a big, noisyblaze. Afterwehadlitafire ofour own in the fireplace and sat around it sipping hot cocoa, we talked about the many pressing social issues of contemporary American life: the Bosnian affair, health care reform, and the de- pressing careerofRob Lowe. Sad that we couldn't enjoy the beach but happy to have watched Backdrafl, Yolanda threw the tape R11\\r1 Rlly wa.t n'i!lllllni(Vtlrr<!!rl~clf•r frmrcf mul itr,<rm ,.,~n• rn~11/ty strvi~~g3 .5 J>t>an ;,.,,, .. • <lnf<' 1\'\\'/ttrt lit haMIItl a\\\' cmnpnnitm, /lrt/J/J(I. l'olanrla ha.uill\1~ft hilll; Stll)' limed for updatt• ... ROBERT A VON SMITH SUMMER RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP IN BIO-MEDICAL ENGINEERING AT.UNION COLLEGE This fellowship is sponsored by Robert Avon Smith, Class of 19S2.1t is .awarded to students in the sciences or engineering who participate in a summer research · program in bio-med.ical engineering under the guidance of Union College faculty. The award will be made available to a student selected on the basis of availability to conduct independent research in bio-medical engineering and · committment to the summer research program. Students interested in applying for the SUMMER· 1996 Fellowship should contact Prof. J. Richard Shanebrook in the Dept. of Mechanical Engineering. 1

Arts & Entertainment Campus Paperback Bestsellers ~.==-~~~~~USA tO. Dlrii~OI1'M~brDN.n~.~!IM,$7.99.) TwoOI'tli'la.'Y~batmaa~alld~Govemmenlagency. \\\\\\ ..... _.,_\\\-'-_...... ___ ... ~ ........... - New & Recommended fbNThelri6h SawpCI~by'Jllorn¥;Cnl'ilf~ (M!:hot,$!~.)ll\elW'IIC:ikl~aflrel&rKI'$he/OI:rolftfrom ihe'!WicifFIGmitiDhrbeot~Europrt; . TM~Siorla;bo/Zcr:INOalefllrston.~. $13.00.) ~ '!no-Yewsflocri·1921 to 1960. U.lttra!Urf.oflHsnation. Write for Arts & ntertainmen Call Larry a X6155! CHECK OUT THE FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE ·ON PAGE 20 'mite (([lTncnrbieusis • February 8, 1996 • Page 13 MCA/UNIVERSAL HOME VIDEO PRESENTS THE ANIMA TED LEGEND OF A HEROIC SLED DOG ,, The Union College Department of. Visual Arts p:resents Art Historian ,, IIAPPY BiRTHDAY JOHN- . FEBRUARY 9. 1996 DAVID OGAWA OH WHAT FUN- GUESS WHO'S TWENTY-ONE HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOHN LOVE MOM AND DAD . ·t .. -:.·::-- . . •. c_o·.\ '~-·~:%'. . .. or Assuffi:ption College ' ·• 1 giving a lecture on \Corot and the Feeling of Seeing\ Friday, February 16, 1996 2:55 - 4:00 pm Arts Building 215 Free and Open to the Public $1 A WASH, 5TH WASH FREE -...::::::.a.••l FREE DRYING ·~ .... ~ TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS r- \ 8AMT03PM SEE STORE FOR DETAILS & ADDITIONAL SAVINGS p

ZIMBABWE A WAITS UNION COLLEGE EXCHANGE PROGRAM IN AFRICA Union College is completing an exchange program with the University of Zimbabwe. The first step toward this ex- change would involve sending 10 students from Union Col- lege to Zimbabwe in the Winter of 1997. This program in Zimbabwe is a pertinent continuation of Union College's attempt to broaden the horizons ofUnion stu- dents \beyond the boundaries of conventional education to explore the foreign turf of Zimbabwe.\ Zimbabwe is the site ofone of Africa's greatest civiliza- tions. The political economy of transformation and change in this South African region is exciting. With the transfer of power in South Africa, Harare, the capital of Zimbabwe, has become the hub of the developing Southern Africa Development Com- munity. Students can take advantage of not only the historical and cultural wealth of this society, but also the natural beauty. The site of Great Zimbabwe, Victoria Falls on the magnificent Zambesi River, and Chapungu park are special attractions. ACADEMIC PROGRAMS This program is designed to expose students interested in African History, culture, politics, family systems, music, art, literature, economic development, technology, medical sys- tems, women and environmental issues with a unique oppor- tunity to learn about these complex issues in an academic setting through persona], cultural and ethnographic research experiences. The program will be based at the University of Zimbabwe. The University is an English institution of approximately 15,000 students. One unique aspect of this program is that Union students can take courses from a wide range of course offer- ings in the Faculty of Arts, Sciences, Engineering, Law, and Medicine. The University will be in full session during the period of the program and, therefore, participants will have the opportunity to experience normal campus life in a typical African university. Undergraduate students will be expected to enroll in two courses of their choice and conduct an inde- pendent study on several aspects of Zimbabwean society. In addition, a two week introduction to Zimbabwean culture and civilization- history, government, religious, arts as well as field tri;:>s to historical sites in Zimbabwe will highlight this cultural experience. Students will be selected carefully with regard for emo- tional maturity, ability to adapt easily, re~earch and academic interests and plans. Prior course work ~r experience in Af- rica- related subjects are desirable. A mandatory two day ori- entation prior to departure and two ~ay orientation while in Zimbabwe is required. Students considering this program should contact Professor Quaye at the Department of Sociol- ogy on extension 6227, Professor M~ller on extension ,6456, and the term abroad office on extension 6002. LAST DAY TO WITHDRAW I FROM CLASSES Friday- February 16th The Pre-Health Society by Floren Robinson . Contributing Jl>'riter Most people relate the health care field with doctors. Often, people are unaware of many career opportunities available in health care. The Pre- Health Society shows the students of Union these professions. The Pre-Health Society brings profes- sionals to discuss and in- form stu- dents about their fields. The professions intro- duced range from a fam- ily physician to a genetic · counselor to a health care administrator. On January 17, the organi- zation, led by Professor Karen Williams, held a program to teach students how to find internships' and employment . I through the Internet. Each term a panel of about five professionals gathers, This term's panel will meet Wednesday, January 31, at 7:00 P.M., in the Strauss Lounge on the third floor of Reamer Campus Cen- ter. Stephanie Cotugno, D.O., a resident in family practice at St. Clare's Hospital, avid actor, Steven Weingold, MPH, a Public Health Special- ist at the New York State Department of Health, and Bonnie Liebers, M.S., ·a genetic coun- selor, will take part in the panel. Cotugno and Civale are both Union ah:uns. The medical aspects of al- coholism will be another panel. Among the speakers will be a representative of a local alco- holism treatment center and recovering alcQholics. This is scheduled· for ·wednesday, February 21 at 7:00 P.M. in the Strauss Lounge. Spring term presents a mini- series on HIV and AIDS. Dr. Patricia. Hughes, from the De- partment of Pediatrics at Al- bany Medic·al Center, Profes- sor Thomas McGovern who has a slide presentation en HIV and AIDS patients, and Joyce Holly, from th.e AIDS Council of Northeastern New York, will be speakers. These pro- grams will start in April. A tour ofCommimity Health Care Plan in Latham, NY, is planned for May where one can see what it is like to be a health professional at an HMO. A possible discussion will include a clinical psy- chologist, a dietici;m, an ad~ ministrator, a physical thera- pist, and an optometrist. Union's Literary Magazine Invites Your Creativity ! I 1. Stories ' ' 2.· · · · r>o.em· s • I 3. Artwork 4. Photography ! Submit to ,Box #8 78 or \THf I'DOL SUBMISSION BOX\ (at the mailroom) Bring your work to the forefront I ~ 11 i~ e a ~ ]

by Conor McKenzie Concordieli$is Staff Once again here I am, sitting in my swivel chair, way past deadline, with a m•dterm to study for. I usually like to write a column that is at least somewhat witty. But, when I'm committed to write· a weekly column, I write, wit or no· wit. So, I was thinking, wit is difficult. but whining, that's easy. I could write an article and complain every day of the week, there are plenty of things about this school that really get my goat. The other day, I was talking to my friend Chas Clark a<;ross the hall. Yes, he's the same Chas who has 45 dollars left on his validinc. Between bites of his grinder from the skellar, he was say- ing, \Conor why don't you write an article about how lame it is that we can't use meal punches. I mean, what if I [like most people] can't stand eating at west, I hate the food there. They gave us two meal punches a week at the Rhyme & un-Reason: by Peter Sorensen Features Edittlr I'm a little teapot, short and stout; here is my handle, here is my handle, here is my handle, sh*t-I;m a sugar bowl. Ha-ha, very funny mutha-f**ka. What a deviant rhyme, eh? A glaring inconsistency from Mother Goose! A sandbox faux pax! A metaphor for my thoughts ... yeah, we're going somewhere with these words ... .We're going to be deviant. We are going to trip into stimu- lus-response-land, into secret thought-land. And we are go- ing to laugh the whole way, be· cause we, the objects and cre- ators of our scrutiny, are ridicu- lous. Pause. Interlude: after last week's edition of the Concordiensis, a concerned reader asked me (specifically) which illegal drugs I was under the influence of at the time of writing. To those who may be wondering, and those who do not care but are reading anyway, the answer is a resounding NONE. I pledge allegiance to the schwag, I touch it not as I compose ... as for my state o( mind during the events and ex- periences from which I draw, I decline commentary. Anyway. Where do I stand as the sugar-bowl rhyHJe floods my right ear? I'm in a line, I want to eat and I am patiently wait- ing my turn to tear it up inside upper-class dining. I am in stitches; I can't help it. She is smiling, she is laughing, she is funny. I turn, I fire: (rap) \caught a chill vibe, orange juice in my ride, Wawa's to the skellar, why don 'tthey just let us use all the punches we want.\ Meal punches for fresh- men-great topic, I thought to myself. Then I realized there wasn't much potential to get creative. Still though. I seri- ously thought I might write at article about how lame the dining services rules are here. Back to Davidson 357: At this point Larry Golden, Chas's roommate, leapt into the conversation. \It's com- pletely ridiculous. I mean, we're in college, why do they inside U! right, they got beverage inside. n I receive a blank look, so I bust into the chorus: yeah, Uike cold beverages, I like cold bever- ages ... Preaching the wisdom of cool refreshment, I forget to give my card to the swiper-per- son. I hold up the line. I am so embarrassed. Thank you, have a nice day. The swipet-pctsoil has a big-sister aura about her, whatever that is. She nods understandingly, whatever that means. Lunch is going to be good ... If I don't wipe this silliness from my head, I'm going to get myself in trouble. I just know it. I remember the last time I felt truly silly at a dining hall. It was in the spring oflast year. We sat at a round table in the alcove at West. I was quoting G-love that day too. (rap, again) em.n£'5 Feb. feel they ave to issue us privileges as we get older? That belongs in High School. Do they think that it takes a year of maturation for us t<,J handle the 'privilege' ofusing meal punches at the skellar and Dutch.\ Sam Mclellan had been sitting quietly on the couch watching this conversation unfold, and when Larry Stopped, Sam began to speak. \It's not like they lose money when we use meal punches either. Don't we pay like 5 or 6 doUars for each of our meal punches, while they only give us like $3.40 per punch? Then that small sum of money goes towards the purchase of al- ready oyerpriced food that they make a killer profit on. A bm1ch of their employees arc (ln work study, and they only have to pay them like a 1 .50 an hour out of their pock- ets. Basically, alii ask is that dining service let us get ripped off just like every other stu- dent at the college.\ I started to think what good points these guys were making, when Larry jumped back into the action. ''Conor, \Dig ll1e a hot coffee, fill it up with ice, watermelons like a drink, please fix me a large slice.\ And he did. I chomped the slice, and he told me about the very serious subject of complementary relationships. He sa!d: we have a North coltege, we have a South col- lege. I interject-would you like some watermelon? He re- plies-Asians don't cat water- melon. Well then. lie contin- ues. We have an upper-class and a lower-class dining hall. But where the hell is East col- lege? What is this, discrimina- tion? Unequal representation? Does this institution deny the ancient wisdom ofthe East? I point to the comment-card box on the wall, the endless complaints on the board. Go public, I oflcr. And he did, with an additional request for rice- pudding. Now, we got the rice- pudding 5 days later, and in typical lower-class fashion, it was awesome. That was 9 months ago. Where is East col- lege? I'll tell you. It has yet to be remodeled. But once it is, bye-bye Schaefer. when you your lc. you should definitely sneak in a plug for our radio show. Tell them that Larry and Conor wiH be sending out . musical stimulation over the airwaves every Thursday llpm-lam on 89.7 WRUC.\ This was a pretty taN re- quest considering that it's not very professional to use an article as an advertisement for your own radio show. I hu- mored him though, \l don't know Larry. I'll try and sneak it in.\ The boys in 357 re- alty know how to make a point. Unfortunately, I think it's too late to pull together an article on Meal punches this week, but maybe I'll try next week. This should be enough to fill the space in my column for now ... Today's Feature: Beachin' by Bertwok Fou11tai11 of K11owledge When I was a young lad, I learned how to windsurf from some rad guys named Scott and Chris. They were out of con- trol. They used to bonk me off my board whenever they could catch me, and say, \beachin\' (in rad surfer tones). Now I am wiser and stron- ger and am desperately trying to follow in their footsteps. I can ride the ride, but I can't talk the talk! I have a littlc:blank in my brain, right next to the syn- tax \beachin'.\ I don't know how or when to use this truly great word. Can anyone help me? I can bonk kids off their boards. so I'm halfway there. When is it appropriate to say beachin'? Help me! (send re- sponses to Features).

Page I 6 February 8, 1996 February 8, 1996 'ml}e Qtoncodil!n6i!ll Residence Life Hall Government? by Kathy Walter HRA - Richmond/North I know what some of you may be thinking- what the heck is Hall Govern- ment. Have no feat; by the ertd ofthis article, not only will you know what it is, but you will want to get involved in some fonn. Hall Government was started three years ago as a means of getting students involved in making decisions in the build- ings where they live. It was nat until last year, though, thateach building was given its own budget for hall govern- ment programming. These moneys al- lowed each governing body to decide on its own, what each building needed. To bring these groups together, a meeting of the Presidents and an additional rep- resentative from each building washcld twice during the year. It was ,at these meetings that ideas were exchanged and an attempt was made to fonnulate acon- stitution. Unfortunately, due to the different de- grees of involvement, a strong Hall Gov- ernment could not be fully realized. flowever, the governing body did man- age to have an effect in some buildings (for instance, West got soap and towel dispensers in the bathrooms and Rich- mond had a number of social events for residents). It was these glimmers of success that kept the idea f<>r hal J gov- ernment going~ Then. the fall of 1995 came. Five new I lead RAs and a newly hired Residence Life Coordinator (Don Giancola) rase to the challenge of creating a strortg hall government in the residence halls. To help with the effort, Dean A1for<l cre- ated a hall government fund to be used for large inter-residence hall goven1ment functions. From there things took. offi!! Late in Fall term, a group of RAs (Shveta Srivastava, Michelle Jester, Dan Brennan, Alicia Oathout), Ruthie Strosberg and Don Giancola ventured to the University of Vermont for the NEACURH Regional Conference[Na- tional Association of College and Uni- versity Residence Halls]. Afterthecon- Theater Series for Webster House Residents. All residents of Webster House wi II be invited to partici- pate in a series of performances at local theaters, followed f:,y faculty-led discus- sions. Proposed b)' Celica Mohammed , RA, Webster Hous€. ference, the committee met a number oftirnes to create a formal constitution for the entire governing body .and a framework for officers. They also made plans for a number of meetings between the various Vice-presidents within the buildings, where they woulddiscusspro- grams.going on, make goals for hall gov- ernment as a whole, and decide on ways to make the hall govemmeritmorc avail- able to students. TI1e first rt1eeting is set for late February. Right now, each building's hall gov- ernment is made up oftwo or more rep- resentatives from each floor and an ad- visor [North-Kate Hedgeman, Rich- mond-Kathy Walter, West-Alicia Oathout, South-Angelo Spinello, Fox/ Webster-Dan Brennan, Davidson-Peter Knipe and Matthew Lux). With a cen- tral constitution and individual miss ion statement, each of the building govern- ments now have a focus. Many resi- dents have seen the effects of organized residents in their buildings. The seem- ingly small projects that hall ,government has taken on make life more comfort- able in the residence halls, llowevcr, there are many more projects to be done and many more directions that hall gov- ernment can take. Ifyouhave any ideas or would like to get involved talk to your RA or the advisor for your building. .. - - - . llll~!llil liT 1\i I ~ •II >' ih 1;. li :!!~ '! l' When you' .. e not hitting the books, hit the slopes at St .. attoD Moun.t·ai:a. Stratton has sensational savings for college students throughout the winter and spring semesters. Just present your valid college.I.D. to get -mid-week lift Hckets for just $20. And save $5 on weekends and holidays. And Stratton Village has loads of restaurants, pubs and Jive entertainment right at the mountain, so you'll have an amazing time off the slopes, too. Do your field work at Stratton Mountain this semester. Your Econ professor will be proud, For more details, call 1-800-BTRATTON. Or visit Stratton on the Internet at http:/ jwww.genghis.comjstratton,htm Shlon VERMiJNT The mountain will rnove you. EXTRA 0 R D I N A R Y RES 0 R T S BY I ,NT RAWEST BLACKCOMB PANORAMA STRATTON TREMBLANT UNION COLLEGE Carar DevdtJ7rml Celie CDC Updates ••• On-Campus Recruiting Reminders: •Educational Resources Group has extended its resume/tran- script deadline to Feb 9 . •Interact Nova Group Info Session - 7pm Wed., Feb.14. Interact Nova Group will be holding interviews on Thurs., Feb. 15 •Chemung Contracting Coorporation is accepting rcsun1es and transcripts for Field Engineer. Resutne Deadline is Feb. 9 •Carney, Sandoe &Associates ... Resume Referral for teaching po- sitions in independent schools. Deadline Feb. 15 for cover letter and resume. •Peace Corps interview sign-ups and required applications are available at the CDC. Deadline Feb. 19. Summer Internship Opportunities: additional info at CDC •International Foundation of Employee Benefits (IFEB). Resume Deadline Wed. Feb. 14. •J.P. Morgan Management Services for Juniors and Seniors. Deadline for resumes and cover letters is Feb. 29 • Excel Communications will be in the Reamer Campus Center Atrium, Feb.l3, 11-2 pm to discuss part-.titne positions. Career Development Center- Third Floor, Old Chapel

Ebola:. A Jagged Little Pill by Andy Salama Science and Medicine Editor· Emeritus. . In everyday life when we think of viruses we concern our- selves with HIV, Hepatitis, and cold viruses. The tropics of Af- rica and Asia, however, have the potential to produce much more deadly and pathogenic viruses. · In the mid-seventies the Ebola virus shocked the biological world. Ebola has been loosely described as a rhabdovirus, but has more recently been catego- rized as a filovirus. The name comes frQm the observation of the spaghetti or rod like appear- ance of the virus in the Trans- mission Electro.n Microscope(TEM). A virus consists of genetic material that is enclosed in a.cap- sule. Viruses have nometabolic systems and no means of mo.,. tility, and are therefore not con- sidered living organisms. One of a viruses main functions is to replicate copies of itself. Vi- ruses reproduce by means of a host organism, in which the genetic material of the virus be- comes a functional part of the cell it infects. Viral genes are added to the organismal DNA, r: either as DNA or RNA, and pro- . duce new viruses or induce the production of mutant proteins which ultimately results in cell ., death. · Before a virus can replicate it must enter a cell. The mecha- nism by which a virus enters a cell varies depending on its structure. There are two basic structures for .viruses. Simpler viruses are helical, much like the well know tobacco mosaic vi- rus. More complicated virus have a quasisphetical structure, whicli is actually several poly- hedro·rts which assemble to form a sphere shaped structure. The genetic material of the vi- r:us is maintained inside, dther as RNA or DNA. Viruses have sugar groups attached to proteins on the outer surface called glycoproteins. The glycoprotein on the surface of the virus facilitates the vi- ruses .entry into a cell. When a virus approaches a cell, its mem- brane may fuse with the cell membrane depending on the compatibility of the their glyco- proteins. The genetic material (DNA or RNA) is basically dumped into the cytoplasm of the cell. Once the viral DNA is incor- porated into the genomic DNA, the genomic DNA starts repli- cating, coding for errant pro- teins, as well as new viral pro- teins used in making new vi- ruses. Once the viral proteins are assembled and the construc- tion of the virus is complete, they bud off. Virally infected cells gener- ally die from two effects of the virus.. The virus ·can replicate so much that the cell becomes full of viruses and can no longer function normally. The cell eventually explodes, releasing thousands of viral particles which then infect other cells. The second way in which the virus kills a cell is by producing proteins which interfere with the normal cell functions. In 1976, the Ebola virus erupted in fifty-five small vil- lages in Zaire and killed nine out of ten of its victims. It has the highest rate of mortality, rank- ing with rabies and HIV. Ebola is spread mainly through con- tact with body fluids and blood. There is evidence that it can be passed through evaporated flu- ids in the air. Many of the people who prepared Ebola victims for burial in Zaire contracted the virus. Victims typically die one week after initial exposure. The first symptoms are an intense headache and a high grade fe- ver. Ebola triggers a paradoxi- cal combination of blood clots and hemorrhages. As the blood forms clots, the victim develops what is know as Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC). DIC is like a having a stroke throughout the entire body. These blood clots tend to be more common in the spleen, liver, and brain. As clots form, the organs begin to hem- orrhage, and then the blood re- fuses to coagulate. When this occurs cells start to lyse spon- taneously. Inevitably'·this leads to a stroke in the brain. Because of the hemorrhaging, victims in- testines fill up with blood and their skin becomes riddled with bruises. These bruises accumu- late so much blood that skin ac- tually tears off. In the latter part of the infection, the body leaks blood containing huge amounts of viral particles. Some facts are known about what Ebola does once it infects its victims. Within seven hours after the virus enters its hosts, it begins translating or produc- ing proteins. These proteins di- rectly effect the body's system of blood clotting. Initially, a blood clotting protein is trans- lated, then this protein is turned off and a new protein is trans- lated which causes hemorrhag- ing. The symptoms of Ebola are often called \Ebola Hemor- rhagic Fever.\ People seem unable to pro- duce antibodies to fight off Ebola. This suggests that Ebola codes for an immunosuppres- sant protein, but this has not been verified. The virus not only prevents the body's blood clotting system, but also inhib- its the immune system from kill- ing the virus or at least prevent- ing its replication. Treating victims of the Ebola is nearly impossible because cases of the virus appear in third world countries where medical care helps very little. In fact, people who attempt to treat Ebola victims end up being vic- tims themselves. Because Ebola is so pathogenic, it has been la- beled as BL4 which is Biolevel Safety 4. To give you an idea of how \hot\ this virus is, HIV is only classified as BL2. Re- searchers are required to wear uniforms that resemble space suits in a negative pressure labo- ratory that is totally sealed from the outside environm.ent. There is reason to be con- cerned about viruses like Ebola. Many types of research depend heavily on the use of primates imported from foreign coun- tries. In 1990, fifty monkeys from the Philippines died mys- teriously when they reached the United States. Tissue samples from the corpses in the TEM revealed a virus which looked exactly like Ebola. Tests re- vealed that the Philipino virus was strikingly similar to Ebola. Considering the nature in which Ebola is transmitted, it is very likely humans could be infected with such a virus just by physi- cal exposure to infected animals. One German man, in charge of sacrificing monkeys for re- search, died of Ebola. In the US, there is mandatory thirty- day quarantine on all imported animals. Theoretically, this would seem to lessen the chances ofEbola spreading, but several cases of Ebola have been transmitted in this manner. In the past twenty years, more and more powerful viruses have emerged from third world countries. The source of these viruses is purely conjecture. To give you an idea of the amount of yirus~~, it;t e~istenke, it .has been said that there 'is at least two viruses for every organism on earth. Simple math gives a staggering number of viruses which usually do not jump from one species to another, but in- stead seem to find ways to mu- tate and transfer themselves to other organisms. Hot Zone Author Speaks @ Union By Dennis Popeo Science and MedicineEditot On Tuesday, January 31, 1996, I}ichard Preston, the au- thor of The Hot Zone came to Union to speak about Ebola and writing. Preston enraptured the large audience ofUnion and non- Union community with stories of his visits to Ebola sites and his process of writing the book. Preston described his pains- taking process of interviewing, fact checking, andre-interview- ing all of his subjects to make sure the story Was accurate. Preston described his factcheck- ing sessions which included making sure subjeces eyes are the color described in the book, or the make of the car that the subject drives was correct. Although Preston did not go into as great scientific detail about Ebola as some of the sci- entists in the audience had wanted, he did amuse us with some funny, but also serious sto- ries. One tale that Preston told was about a camera man from ABC's \Day One.\ This cam- era man was sent to Kitum Cave on the side of Mount Elgon on th~ boarder of Uganda and Kenya to take pictures of the . fabled home of the Ebola virus. This camera man met with Preston who gave him informa- tion about Bio-Hazard gear and sterile procedure. With Preston's information and the Bio-Hazard clothing, the cam- era man set off for Kenya. Un- fortunately, his airline lost his Bio-Hazard and Protective gear. Determined to get the story, the camera man entered the cave anyway, without any protective clothing. In the middle of the cave, the lights of the camera disturbed a colony of bats which rushed out of the cave. Several ofthe bats brushed through this man's hair and clothing. After exiting the cave, the camera man was washing in a stream nearby and backed into a thorn bush. One of the thorns penetrated his clothing and the skin ofhis rear, drawing blood. The camera man returned to Manhattan, only to awaken in the middle of the night with a terrible headache and small blood blisters all over his body. His first reaction was to call Forrest Sawyer, anchor of \Day One.\ Forrest allowed the man to come to over and ex- amined him. After consulting several medical books, Forrest determined that the camera man did not have Ebola and sent him home. The next day, the cam- era man said a \tropical. medi- cine specialist 11 determined that the camera man was covered with flea bites. Apparently, fleas from the bats in Kitum Cave were depos- ited on his clothes and his hair. He then brought these fleas home to Manhattan, where they infested his apartment. The camera man called an extermi- nator to rid himself of fleas, and the emergency was over. For the camera man, it was over, but if you consider that all Manhattan buildings have rats, and fleas love to bite rats, and that the vector that may carry Ebola is quite possibly an insect, this very moment, an Ebola out- break may be brewing in the sewers of New York City. Preston commented that the first cases would probably be seen in the homeless, and then in the health care workers that treat the homeless. Although this story m~y ter- rify some into thinking that an Ebola outbreak may occur in the US, one already has. In Wash- ington DC, several monkeys were diagnosed with Ebola. The facility was decontaminated and destroyed. Preston warns that the most dangerous threats to the US may not be Ebola or even HIV, but a new strain of bacte- ria that does not respond to any known antibiotics, and an pneu· monia of undetermined causes striking people of all ages and ethnic backgrounds. While this is all occurring, the budget for the CDC (Center for Disease Control) has been slashed by thirty percent. This budget cut may be cutting the life line for all of us. For a detailed view of what Ebola is and how it kills, please see the other Ebola article on the page. Pre-Meu'? Write Science and McuiciJH: 1'lH· tl!t' U.::nnr:ori)it'nsis. Call Dennis at x6155 or L-iVIail the Fuitors and Concord~ cigar. l inion. edu '

The Patient Chris Richards Living Editor All our lives we are told \pa- tie:qce is a virtue.\ \Phis idea has existed since man first began to write, and its influence is poured into children's ears from the beginning. \Good things. come to those who wait.\ This mo- rality play piles higher and higher, until someone finally sees something hideous in the thoughts of humans. Finally the child questions why things are the way they are, and the par- ent sees into the n~tute of the advice which is given. In 1864, Abraham Lincoln declared that patience is a vir- tue. BUT ... and this is the great but, \but only leaves one with what's left over from those who hustle.\ Yes! Patience is great if you can live with what everyone else didn't want. Pa- tience is great, but it wiH leave you with absolutely nothing. If Love It or Leave it, Turkey by Peter Sorensen ~· Features Editor I've got chills. No joke, I was so touched by the sight. A little moon (mostly full), the remnants of snow and ice, a crisp night in all senses of the word. Two people, two kids, a guy and a girl, standing close under the shadow of the Nott. And I felt guilty looking, so I turned; but I already had chills. I went for the Gardens, accom- panied only by my thoughts and my last smoke. Figured I'd lose my self in a little introspection and the like ... The following evening I was walking through the Arts build- ing (you know, the structure between North and Reamer), checking out the new exhibit. Its great, by the way; there is an entire corner of wood shingles, each with a different portrait on it. I take back the 'great'-it's borderline genius. But that's not why I was there. My destination lay up the stairs and to the right, to the slide show and presentation on Hanson's disease. The room was packed. So what is my point? What indeed is my point? I guess I am trying to be subtle in point- ing at the recurring whining about apathy, about lame hook- ups, about nothing happening in Schenectady. I want to say- just stop, call your mom, get over it, and get involved. After a year and a half, after repeated thoughts of transfer, after vis- its to the Ivies and their kin, af- ter plenty of thought...I'm home. I went to Yulrnan later that week to here the Steve Kenyon. Quartet. How does· our school manag·e to get s:uch· artists? How did I keep my jaw\ (;rf tP.e: floor? There is .so much, there is so much (excuse me for be- ing redundant), there is so much. And I detest the city, too. Well, I guess at this point either you know exactly what I mean or you've stopped read- ing. I suppose. I guess I have no way of knowing. Does anyone out there have great things to say about our school? I admit it takes a de- gree of selective vision to feel as I do-at least, from my point of view it does-and I sometimes wonder what the general opinion of the student body is. Maybe we should take a survey? Nahhh. The cogni- zant know where it's at; they laugh at the whiners and their whining, at those who are not happy for no reason but that they choose not to be. Union does not require its students to fit any specific pro- file; you be who you are, do what you do, and compromise your desires for precious few reasons. Pretty soon you may find that you really are in an idyllic little college. It's hap- pened to some of us ... I want to end with a little clarification and the Python song of the week. Yeah, I love it, and yeah, this is probably one ofthe more positive articles this campus has seen i-n a while ... and yeah, I could just as easily bitch about things. But while you're up on your cross, it's nice to look on the bright side of life--yeah, sometimes that is what you want, then yes, . utes to pick out three oranges most would probably agree that patience is'~ virtue. with my grandmother; but on he felt ft was. But that is not . ' . With the trials ofLincoln's life the whole, patience leaves orte my point. If Lincoln had been in mind, and) .his great achieve- t! with the scraps on the table by patient, tile history of the United ment, pati¢nce for Lincoln is a draining the energy and enthu- States weuld have gotten even terrible, (oul, wicked disease. siasm for life. Lincoln's words darker. Nothing woul_d have Patience is' not a virtue. He sa!d speak to every person that has changed ~f he caved in to those to his God-loving people that ever lived, his message comes who believed patience is a vir· their principle has a degree of\' in loud and clear .. don't be pa- tue. And so too-with our lives, truth to it; hut they've injected it .tient. If we ar~;patieht and do not the wrong way. There are times Yet, if. Americans were . hustle, then don't complain when patience is required, Hke. . ~sked whether Lincoln believed when someone takes what you when it takes twenty five min,.. patience were .a virtut; or not, wanted. .E c~~·.·~ go\\e~* D I I * \A\'2. ~~ street . &hen~~ Q4\1--'2~ ..... A\so il\J\\bo.n~ o.t 211 t.a~-\ st. \0% cllscoun\, Vli\\l ~iol\ 1.f>. . i..: r.

'ijJqe OO:ontO.r?riensi~ •February 8, 1996 • Pag~ 19 --~~------~~----------~~--~~~~~--~~~--~------~~~----~--------~--~--~--~---- 4- MONDAY~ MARCH 111 2 1996- 9:30AM-I 1:30AM cui*02l\'OI History of Greece -Loomis, W. HUMN liS CLS*OHN*OI Survey of Ancient Epic -Mace, S. HUMN ll2 AAH*034\'0l .19th Century Euro Paint/Sculpt-Eyerman, C. ARTS215 EC0\'144 *0 l International Economics -Motahar, E. HUMNHO EIO*Ol6~~'0l Biology 1 ·Olberg, R. COLC H8T*Ol3*0l History ofUS to Civil War-Wells, R. SSCI104 BI0*024'\01 Genetics ~Boyer/Horton BAIL20/ HST*035*01 History ofEurope I -Halliday, P. SSCI 103 BIO*l54*0i Developmental Biology -Eoyer, B. NWSEll4 HST*035*02 History ofEurope 1 -Hansen, E. HUMN 114 BIO*l6Q*Ol Histology & Organolog-Roth, W. BAIL 104- HST*036*01 History ofEurope2 -Berk,S. HUMN 117 CER*I28*0l- Structural Analysis- Mafi. M. BUTR.l09 :MER*022>~'0J Materials Science & Engineerng -Milillo, F NWSE210 Eco•oJ9*0I Public Finance -McCarty~ T. SSCI014 Mlli*07o•o 1 Fractals -Frame, M. BAIL104 EER*041J*OI Semiconductor Devices & Circts -Hassib, E. STZlll06 M1H*l36*01 Real Variable Theory 1 -Taylor, A. BAIL 102 EGL*053*01 Literature of the Renaissance ·Steven~on, R HOMNllO PHL*132*0l Modem Philosophy thru Leibniz -Ludwig, J. IIDMN 119 ESC*030'~'0l Mechanics <itDefqrtnableSolids- Bucinell, R NWSE210 PSC*Ol9*01 Feminists Theorize the Politcal· Meyers, P.A. SSCI 110 GEO*OST*O.l CarbonateSedirnentology- Garver, J. I. BUTR201 PSC*06s•ot Electoral Politics -Brown, C. SSCI ll2 GER*OlO*Ol Basic German 1-W arde, A. HUMNtl5 PS¥*020*02 Statistical Methods/Psychology -DeBono, K. BAIL300 GER*IZO*Ol Intermedi;tte German 1-Hamm-Ehsani, K SSCll05 PS¥*030 114 01 Personality- Halpern, L. BAIL201 'GER*l2l*Ol Intermediate German 2 -Hamm\Ehsani K SSCIIOS PSY*038*0i Developmental PsycholOf:,'Y -Stanhope, L. BAIL312 GRK*OH*f.H Principles of Greek 2 -:Mace, S. HUMN113 Gfu<*l3l*Ol Herod()tus & Thucyc;lides ·Loomis, W. HUMNll9 WEDNESDA. Y 2 MARCH 20 2 1996 -1:30PM-3:30PM LAT*l30N*01 CatuHus & Horace -Sorurn, C. DEANSCONF MER*.04l*Ol Engineering Design 2 •Rivera, M. NWSE222 BI0*018*01 BiolO!,'Y 2 -Tobiessen, P. SSCI016 MTH*058*02 Appls of Math to Economics l -Fairchild, W. BA,IL105 CER*Ol6*0l CE Computer Applications -Jewell, T. BUTR 109 / MTH*lOO*Ol Orthogonal Functions •Bick, T. BAILl02 CER*l32*01 Reinforced Concrete Design -Thabet, W. NWSEI16 PHY\'Ol7*01 General Physics l .Jones, C. NWSEll2 CHM*040*0l Quantitative Chemistry -Werner, T. NWSE201A PHY*Ol7*02 General Physics 1 -Maleki; S. NWSE2()1A EC0*031*01 Microeconomic Analysis-Y aisawarng, S. SSCI 104 PHY*Ol7A*Ol General Physics 1 -Jones, C. NWSE3()4 EER*l44*01 Communication Systems 1 -Hassib, E. NWSE222 PHY*04-8*0 I Intelligent Life in Univerne -Schick, K. NWSE114 EGL*OJJB•O! African-American Women Writers -Shour, N. HUMN 114 PSC*058*01 International Law -Board., J. SS<;I 112 FRN*t2l\'Ol Intermediate French. 2 •Laparra, C. HUMN1!2 PSY*06~*01 Practicum in Human Relations I -Dowling, T. BAlL312 JPN*Oll *01 Basi c Japanese 2- Khan, Y. SSCIOlO PHL*038*01 Eastern Philosophy- Patrik, L. HUMN 117 MONDAY, MARCII18, 1996 -1:30PM-3:30PM PH¥*018*01 General Physics 2 ·Anderson, A. NWSE300 PH¥*018•02 General Physics 2 -Rodriguez, G. NWSE 116 AMU*020*01 Music History & Literaltt:re 1-Wilson, H. A ARTS2!5 PH¥*018*03 General Physics 2 -Schick, K. NWSE114 .A.MU*044*01 Jazz Theory & Impro -Olsen, T . ARTS313 PH¥*018*04 General Physics 2 -Rodriguez, G. NWSEU2 BIO*r80*0l Biochemistry ..:salvo. J L_ BAIL105 PSC*Ol2N*01 lntro International Politics- Al;Jootalebi, A. SSCI014 ECO*Ol2*02 -Introduction to Economics -Schmidt, S.J. SSCI012· _ l>SC*OR8N*O I Politics ofMidcUeEast-Abootalebi, A. SSCl'l03 '· PS¥*025*01 Intro to Experimental Pych .-Bums, D. J. BA,IL300 ECO*Ol2*03 Introduction to Economics -Kwok, C. SSCI 103 ESC*06\9*01 . Engineering Economics-Anderson, A.M. NWSEII.4 SPN*011*02 Basic Spanish 2 -Garcia, W. IillMN 116 GEO*OII*Ol The Earth & Life thru Time -Rodbell, D. BUTR:iOI SPN*l21*02 Intermediate Spanish 2 -Martinez, V. BUMNIIS GER*135*0l Women in German Literature -Kellenter, S. HUMNI19 SPN*l49N*Ol Spanish Romanticism/Realism -Moyano, P. HUMNilO GER*l49*0l Deutsche Schriftstellerinnen -Kellenter, S. HUMNI19 GMI*150*0l Organization!!l Theocy -Lehnnan, S. HUMN019 THURSDAY 2 MARCH 21 2 1996- 9:30AM-11 :30AM HST*066*01 East Asian Civ - Part II· Madancy. J. SSCI014 MTH*l40*01 Linear Algebra -Sauerberg, J. BAIL102 AAH*026*01 Intro to Hst of Architecture-Matthew, L. ARTS2!5 MTH*019*01 Linear Algebra/Camp Var/Engrs -Barbanel, J. BAIL201 AAH*030*01 Renaissance Art -Matthew, L ARTS215 MTH*030*0l Ordinary Differential Equation -Fairchild, W. BAIL207 ANT*Oll*Ol Comparing Cultures thru Film -Leavitt, S. SSCI0!2 PHL*Dl2*01 History Western Philosophy 2 ·Ludwig, J. HOMNl14 ATH*030*01 Movement for Actors -Finlay, W. YULM PHL*l59*0l Post Modernism -Patrik,. L. HUMN213 CER*15l*Ol Hydraulics -Jewell, T. BUTR !09 PSC*084*01 Political Sociol&gy -Weiner~ 1. ,,_, SSCI 110 J ~ CHM*OIO*Ol Fundamental Chemistry I ·Weick, C BUTR204 RUS*Oll*OI Basic Russian 2 -Jordan, B. HUMN113 CHM*Ol0*02 Fundamental Chemistry 1 -Fox, K. BUTR204 SOC*124*01 Political Sociology -Weiner, T. SSCI 110 CHM*Ol2*0l Fundamental Chemistry 2 -Scaife, C. BUTR204 SPN*OL 1*01 Basic Spanish 2 -Garcia. W. HUMN117 CHM*OI2*02 Fundamental Chemistry 2 -Carroll, M. BUTR204 CHJ\11*012*03 Fundamental Chemistry 2 -Scaife, C. BUTR204 TUESDAY, MARCH 19, 1996- 9:30AM-11:30AM CHJ\11*150*01 Physical Chemistry 1 -Hayes, D. NWSE I 16 CSC*038*0l lntro to Computer Science -HemmendintJer,D BUTR300 BIO*l70*01 General Endocrinology -:Butterstein, G BAIL207 EC0*033*0l Public Policy & Amerindustry -Klein, D. SSCI 104 GE0*025*01 Tectonics -Garver, J. I. BUTR201 EER*l43*0l Electromagnetic Engineering 1 -Chang, Y. NWSE20!A HST*072*01 Early Jewish History- Berk, S. SSCI 104 ESC*015*01 Numerical Methods & C Language -Almstead, L. NWSE 114 HST*046*01 Stuart England: 1603-1714-Halliday, P. SSCI 112 HST*049*0l Europe Between Two Wars -Hansen, E. SSCI!I2 HST*129*01 African-American Thought-Miller, A.T. SSCll 03 :ML T*O l 7*0 1 An East Asian Sampler -Khan, Y. HUMN 116 JPN*121*01 IntermediateJapanese2- Khan, Y. HUMN213 PHL*014*01 Introduction to Ethics -Baker, R. HUMN 114 JPN*13l*Ol Advanced In term Japanese II- Khan, Y.HUMN21 PSY*020*01 Statistical Methods/Psychology -Greenberg, S. BAIL300 LAT*OI 1*01 Principles of Latin 2- Scullion, J. S HUMN116 PSY*OSI*Ol Applied Cognitive Psychology -Bums, D. J. BAIL201 MER*033*01 Fluid Mechanics -Shanebrook, J. NWSE222 MTH*OIO*OJ Calculus 1 -Taylor, A BAIL 100 THURSDA Y 2 MARCH 21 2 1996 -1:30PM-3:30PM Mrn*O 12*01 Calculus 2 -Prindle, A BAIL 104 MTH*OI2*02 Calculus 2 -Muckenfilss~ J. BAIL20l ANT*OSO~Ol Native Americans- Schaefer, J. G. SSCI!l2 MTH*Ol2*03 Calculus 2 -Reynolds, P. BAIL 106 CHN*OI!*Ol Basic Chinese 2 -Xie, Y. HUMN I 19 MTH*Ol2*04 Calculus 2 -Muckenfuss~ J. BAIL201 EGL*022N*01 Major American Authors- Slade, L. HUMN 110 MTH*0!5*01 Calculus 3 -Rosenthal, IC. BlffR 109 FRN*Oll*Ol Basic French 2 -Laparra, C. HUMN 116 MTH*Ol5*02 Calcuh1s 3 -Rosenthal, IC. BUTR 109 GEO*Ol4*0l Our Changing Planet -Locke, S. BUTR201 MTW'Ol5*03 Calculus 3 -Sauerberg, L NWSE 112 MTH*017*01 Calculus IV:Integral Vector-Frame, M. BAIL 104 MTH*028*01 Probability -Barbanel, J. NWSEII4 PHY*042*01 Great Ideas of Modem Physics- Reich, G. NWSE 112 MTH*l24*01 Geometry -Zimmermana,K BAIL 102 PSY*OIO*Ol Intro to Psychology -Stanhope, L. BAIL3l2 PHY*020*01 General Physics 4 -K.husropour, R. NWSE328 PSY*O!ON*O:t. Intro to Psychology -Halpern, L. BAIL207 PSY*OSO*O I EducationalPsychology -Campito, J. BAIL312 PSY*024*0l Social Psychology· DeBono, K. BAIL20! RUS*121*01 Intermediate Russian 2 -Jordan, B. HUMN!19 SOC*Ol0*02 Intro to Sociology-Cotter, D. SSCI 103 SPN*!33*01 Spanish Peninsular Lit 2 -Moyano, P. HUMNIIO SOC*024*01 Social Psychology-DeBono, K. BAIL201 SPN*l21*01 Intermediate Spanish 2-Martinez, V HUMN117 TUESDAY 2 MARCH 19, 1996 -1:30PM-3:30PM FRIDA Y 2 MARCH 22 2 1996- 9:30AM-11 :30AM ANT*OI0*01 Irttro to Cultural Anthrpology-Leavitt, S. SSCI112 CHM*032*01 Organic Chemistry 2-Hall, L. BUTR204 AAH*OI2*0i Intro to Art History - Part 2-Eyerman, C. ARTS215 (HM*032*02 Organic Chemistry 2 ·Adrian, J. BU1R204 CSC*Ol 1*01 Programming forthe Sciences-Almstead, L. NWSE210 EC0*065*01 Non Profits & Cooperatives -Fried, H. SSCIOIO CSC*014*01 Information Processing-Macherone, B. NWSE 114 ESC*Oll*Ol Engineering Graphics-Mafi, M. BUTR300 ECO*O 12 *0 I Introduction to Economics-Fried, H. SSCIII2 ESC*OI3*01 High-Level Language Pn1graming-Teresco, J. STZH 1()6 EGL*020*01 Major English Authors 2-Frazier, A. HUMN 112 GER*Oll*01 Basic German 2 -Warde~ A. HUMN!IO EGL*035*01 Literature ofHolocaust-Heinegg, P HUMN 115 HST*063*01 History of Caribbean/Cent Amer- Meade, T. SSCI012 GEO*OIS*Ol Geology of National Parks-Shaw, G. BUTR201 HST*121 *01 Amer Constitutional/Legal Hist -Jonas, M. BAIL201· PSC*OllN*02 Intro to American Politics-Weiner, T. SSCI014 MTH*099*01 Intro to Logic & Set Thecry -Niefield, S. ALUMHl7 SPN*OlO*Ol Basic Spanish !-Osuna, M. HUMN 117 PHY*052*01 Intermed Classical Mechanics -Reich, G. N\VSE 112 PSC*Ol2*0l Intro International Politic -Gilman, T. SSCI104 FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1996- 1:30PM-3:30PM SPN*l20*01 lntermediate Spanish l -Osuna, M. HUMN115 SPN*l20*03 Inter-mediate Spanish I -Merediz, E. lruMN0!9 ACC*OlO*Ol SulVeydfAccounting-Lewis, W. ·'~014 ,, : r. WEDNESDA Y 2 MARCH 20 2 1996- 9:30AM-11:30AM A1H*Ol2*0l Begiimillg Acting·Rose, L mM EC0*042*01 Macroeconomic Theory & Policy-Motahar, E. SSCI014 EC0¥J41N*Ol Monetacy Economics-Kwok, C. STZI-i:l06 BI0*026*01 The Cell- Smith/Salvo.BAIL 207 EER*04l*Ol Electric Circuits-Gajjar, J. NWSEll2 BIO*l36*01 Cell Regulation Mechan.-isms ·Danowski, B. NWSEll6 GE0*020*0l MineralogyHollocher, K. BUTR201 CER•022*0I Civil Engr Materials- Ghaly, A. BUTR 109 HST*Ol4*01 History of US Since Civil War-Feffer, A. SSCI 112 CHM*ll8*01 Inorganic Chemistry 2 -Lou, K. STZH 106 SOC*I53*0l Sociology of the Handicapped-Weiner, T. SSCI 105

',}• ... .. ,. OU'J' ON A LIMB by GARY KOPERVAS RUBES® { ' \. \ \ . -ru. c;~ '/~ . .:l).tJV ~~~ '{C#J 1\ O.VA~f'-~ ... By Leigh Rubin C•~tatoN~~ ...... Cl t~ h~Qh nut..,, . \C' 1 · · · mon, <athleen::~we reltHY- . . , (lidn~t cotnn here tr) jog!\ · RUBES~ I 71\ Chin-ups proved quite dlfflcult for Floyd despite the wide selection he had to choose from. Ancient Egyptians took .great care In providing a comfortable afterlife for their beloved pharaoh by selecting food that would last an eternity. ACROSS 1 11u~· O'Hara estate 5 Make a shambles hr+~l-+~1!1!!! of 9 lOth anniversary gift 12 Bad !ii gn 13 Chor~ographer White 14 Top-notch 15 Metem1aid\s task 1711e played Mr. Peppers 18 Rohhcr\n salchdful J 9 Ferber book 2 I Almost always 24 llollywO<ld industry 25 Italy',; s il h011t\ It c 26 \Northt\nt ~:xposiJt<\\ 48 Bom R Like ~anthiJlJ'It' fratnre ,olks 49 N II '\ 1'. 1 2n (' · 30 Wrath (\C( e .c:~se ')! ,;~ srttll.f~OJ~I:u ., .(lJI.VIflCc 3 . 1 WI 1 , 1 1 50 Pt\tsoll 111 charge 1<1 Cemplttc>r . 31 Track . lOIII I nca 1011 as 51 Ninny . !':\tnl'lil[ ofl1cial trscuec 5 2 (' I' f · · < · J · ~4 II -' ff 32 Ch I . . .n I onua . . . I l,llti,r:hefl;ho!l • .· eauy qnn 33 Tra~fn:,iJ~~r · gridd~ts·~· . , · call · ··' 35 Like forage 35 •t 1 ., f ·t · '53 Just shy of · I\ M · · plants ,, n e o a oro · ,j any, llli!ll)' 36 \S .,. II .. a meter ·, v•\'ts 37 Linot'rie 7 , at tot<' ··:. I>OWN 2. 0 ·\'r:'r'~ put~lmsc 3 To. m. s. a.wyet s 1 C'l•llcl !· \' 21 K I 3R Tunl(•t (lt gttlfrteml · yolo sn!< 1C:i 38 Photocopier 2 Parisian'$·. ~~,c\hp\t r;rior . Sinntrn need pal · ' · < • to'!\ slioi ; ., \' :w lntlivicluals 3 r.ll.. 238 II . • 40Jttili<'SIO 40 Do mni lrootn 1 '' I n gamrs. . n ttmns b • n If .. lh'e lop work riC y ,o,.e!i 2 4 Sl k 24 () t' 41 Elevntor name · 4 l.elletheai1 .· '· 1011 soc · C'S UIY. - . ·~ I 11hhr. 5 Snt11lay raJ!Cr ·· 26 Wri~rr 4;.·Ca I -- d:~y 43 .. llollywood !;f\cl. Kingslry 4~ Cnnllprlill' male SrJnates\ (j Co1iclo 2 7 Ms. Ulhnarm 4 (, Scu!lnrC'd basin 7 B&ll 2R Bollle 47 Trachinp: flt\J!. , I

Personals and Classifieds To the brother-s ofAD, Our bid party was a blast!! Thanks fo:ttll:e;gi:\eat time. TI1e Sisterso:flJ.~fta,.Delta, Delta To the brothers of AD, 1l1anks formakingourhid party so memo- rable. Looking forward to partying with you again. . the pledges.ofDelta, Delta, Delta To the brothersofPsi U, Once again, tlte cocktails were aJnazing. Next time., we'll be sure to get you all on the bar · with us. TI1anks for another greatn.ight.! 11te Sisters·~fDelta, Delta, Delta Pool and 'Tondo~ Hope you.Nnjoying running around 'en su sombreros' We miss yotJ. gttys! Ole, The Sisters o'f9elta, Delta, Delta Backus, Batts, Dunphy, Morgan, Do auakedpartl1enon run for us. Don't com~ l1ome until you do!!! Lo\e and miss you all. We have no clue, but we miss you any- way! The Sisters of Delta, Delta 1 Delta Siri, Elana, Megan, Send us some of that sunshine. Don'tgtit yourselves burned! We miss you! Tite sisters ofDelta,Delta,Delta. Say nine Hail Mary's for nine days and thenmakea request after you distribl!te this message to others. -Logan Elaila, Hope You're ha\tiilg fun and keeping wann. It's really cold here! Thanks for the postcard, I'll be writting soon. Love, Ivonne Siri- Keep the letters coming. I itave. So much to tell. I miss my hiking buddy. April is only 2 months away. I can't wait!! Love, The guys at Snowden Backus, Why aretr't you writing. f-k?. Did you meet and shack up with a strange Greek man.??? Does he have you tied up so The Rathskellar will now be open late night on Friday and Saturday evenings from 9:00pm- midnight. M~al ~quivalencies are also accepted as 011 weekdays, and bottled beer will be offered 9:00pm-midnight. So come in and enjoy a midnight snack with your friends and listen to the jukebox. Play your favorite tunes ..• youcan ·. you anytime soon. Delta Love,. DDD 260 Pool- It's been too long. We miss you much! TI1inking of you all the time. We'd love to hear from you. L o v e lvonne+Dana Alli-o, Jack-o, Liz-0 We love you 0-so much.!! PrincessDI Stone, Thanks for a greattime Friday night! Let's do it again sometime soon! You know Who Ahnya, Sorey I'm not biracial. I'd love to help you out withyourthesisH Let's do lunch anyway! Love Your eyebrow twin (How are those anchovies any- way?) . McKetch- Were those your breats we saw at Psi- U??? To the Pledges ofDelta,Delta,Delta, Hope yol! bad fun Friday night, and were surprised. Keep humoring us! You guys are great! We love you all. the Sisters Cindy and emily, I tl1ink it was a success!!! Maybe not Muddy, but definately dirty. Save it for spring term! Daryl- Look what happens when you go away! l trouble .... Marty- Wipeout! Yearigllt?? The Tommy Boy Fan Club To the phone-sex guy, Whoever you are, please call back!! We won't be too busy for your call!! F.W. Thanks for the best weekend ever. I had a.great time! I love you! Munckin Lauren Everything will work out. Things happen for a reason. -LYLAS. Splendor in Stone This renowned exhibit from the State Museum at Albany of spectacular color photographs of thin sections of rocks visits the Nott Memorial on the Union College campus January 22 to February 2 9 Thin sections are slices of rock l/85Qth of an inch thick, glued te) glass. Seen through a polarized light micro- scope', the rocks have colors and patterns that astonish and amaze! In addition to being unusual and dramatic abstract art, the colors and patterns can tell geologists .about thp minerals present and how the rock formed. Open to,alH You won't believe such images are real! ~ Vermont schist, plane polarized light (actual width is 8 mm)

Page 22 WI,~ C!Inncarhi.e:nsis • February,8 1996 • Sports NBA Approaches Midseason Point WOMEN'S HOOPS AT HOME ONE LAST TIME by Jon Fader Sports Editor This weekend marks the half- way p.oint of the NBA season. It will include the East- West All Star Game and all of the festivi- ties which accompany it, most notably the Three Point Shootout and the Slam Dunk Contest. Now that the sea- son seems to be rolli11g along, let's take a look back at a half a season of basket- ball which has given us more than our share of thrills. The most impressive story ofthis season is undoubtedly the play of the Chicago Bulls. The Bulls !rave notched 41 victories while losing only 4, and are on pace to break the all-time geles Lakers has been at the fore- front ofNBA news this past week. Magic has retumed after a four and a half year retirement, which was caused when he found that he was HIV Positive. It is won- derful to see Magic back on the court, running the show in L.A. wins record in NBA history. Chi- once again. In his first game cago is not just beating teams. back, Ma!:,r:ic looked like his old they are basically humiliating self again, nearly achieving a the.ir opponents with ease. triple double, but more impor- Michael Jordan has regained his tantly smiling like he always has fonn, and he is once again lead- as the Lakers beat the Golden ing the league in scoring with a State Warriors. 31 points per game average. The While the Bulls are clearly the !3ulls are certainly not a one man class of the Eastern Conference, show, however. Scottie Pippen there are· a few other teams who has quite possibly developed into will have a chance at knocking the best all-around player in the them off on the way to the NBA NBA, and the addition of De11nis Championship. The Orlando Rodman has bolstered their re- Magic, last year's Eastem Confer- bounding and defense. ence Champion, a,re once again in ·The most interesting story of ftrst place in the. Atlantic Divi- . the season has surfaced in the last sion. Sham!Ul~~()'Neal is healthy two weeKs. TI1e return ofEarvin and Anfe'rtle·it'Penily' Hardaway 'Magic' Johnson to the Los An- has added some nittscle to his frame, and these two AU-Stars are hoping to lead the Magic right backto the championship again. This could be the year for the Pac- ers., too. Reggie Milier seems to be the kind of player who always has the hot-hand when the Pacers need him, and Rik Smits has de- veloped into one of the pre- mier centers in basketball. While they may be old, the Knicks can stiH not be counted out yet. They have had a roller-coaster season so far. They started out hot before they hit a losing skid. Recently. they have found their winning form and led by Ali~Star Patrick Ewing, they only trail the Orlando Magic by a few games in the division. The Western Confer- ence offers a host of teams who have the possibility of reaching the NBA Finals. The Seattle Su- personics hold the best record in the conference, but they have been very disappointing in the playoffs the last few years. The Utah Jazz. Houston Rockets, and Sacramento Kings are playing well, and will look to improve as the playoffs approach, Now that Magic Johnson has joined the Lakers, it will be interesting how good Los Angeles will be. The first half of the season has been pretty wild. We can only wait and see what the second half of the s~ason will.bring. by HiJ1:1ry Prouty co1ztributing editor After taking the weekend off, the Outchwomen are hoping for a strong finish to a rocky season. Last Wednesday, they took on Middlebury, a team ranked third in the region. Tip•offwas at seven o'clock, after a live perfonnance ofthe \Star Spangled Banner\ by. • Kathy Betden. Unfortunately, Middlebury came away with the win,. . but the effort was visible. With Amy Ritz averaging 15 points pet game and ripping down 12 rebounds, she continues to be an asset to the team, while Toyna Capparello averages 11 poii1ts per game, and Tara Blagys adds 10 more. Amy Dougherty, after spending some of t11e season on sick leave, is getting fired up fast and becoming a key on both the offensive and defensiv~ ends:·· 7 : Tuesday night, the team traveled to Vassarfortheir game at six o'clock. They return to their homecourt forth~ lasttyyo home ~ames·. of the season against St. Lawrence and Clarkso~l. ~ tl1eir last match · up with St. Lawrence, the game came down towhichteam had the ball when the buzzetwent off, and they ended up l.esii1g a close one. l11e following day, after playing a tough game With a discouraging · loss, Clarkson put up a good fight. Union held them off, but were down when the final seconds clicked away. · Now, the Dutch women are looking for revenge. Letting two close · games slide left them · ·· · with a little frustra~ . tion, but l~t ftres in · their stomachs as they realized the ~hal­ lenge that lies ahead. Tip-off time for Friday's game is at 6pm, with the men's game following at 8pm. Come support our Dutchwomen in their last home match ups for the season. With a lot of hard work, dedication, and effort' under their belts, these . wo1nen deserve . . I ' I ' · sante support. It will surely be appreciated. l~ niio n ~.!!rt~~i!T~~4~~!~ 10 !,~ e.~,~~~!~~~d !tt!:!is ~m~~J~!:!toRP· by Mtke L.ed ng The 1600 meter relay team of finale, the 1600 meter relay team In the end, 1t was a great meet to see th~1r loved ones perform. staffwrzter Sara Mcintosh, Amelia Audette, of Conway, Leding, Russ Stram, showing where·the team stands. This weeke11d the team travels to Both the men and women's Jessica Goveia, and Molly Hood and Flynn all ran basically iden- An awful lot of men and women Hamilton to compete in the teams finished third in competi- rounded outthe women's scoring tical splits as they tried to walk doubled and tripled in events, . Hamilton Invitational. Good luck tion.witll RPL Sain.t Rose. and by placing fourth in a time of downDivisioniiSfuntRoseatthe showing that they are in pretty totheteamastheyprepareforthis Siena over the weekend. It was 5:0 I. end, but anchor man Flynn fell spectacular shape. It was also · meet and cohtinue to focus on . supposed to be tiTe Capital Dis- Seth Rudin got the men going just short at the end.to finish sec- encouraging to see some of the scoring well at ~tates. trict Meet, buttwo tea~ns backed in the 1500 meters placing fourth ond in a time of 3:33 .I, 0.1 of a o~~diliemecl~elflo~rome w~aq~dtimecl4:16. M~ ~-----------------------------------~ of its meaning. However, that did Leding placed second in the 400 not seem to hinder the perfonn- meters running a personal indoor ers on the track. The top four best of :53.4 seconds. In the shot places scored points in this meet, put, freshman Jennel Royal con- and individuals from both the tinues to gain some experience as women's and men's squads re- he tries to fill the enonnous void corded some personal bests. in the shot put left by All Ameri- For the women, Michelle can Rich Pulver. Jennelthrewthe Woodward placed fourth in the shot 12.28 meters to finish fourth. weight throw with a distance of In the distance medley relay, the 9.20 meters to get the women team ofPete Flynn, Mike Leding, going in the right direction. In Nick Conway, and Jay Goldberg the long jump, Tamara Saukin blew RPl out of the water to fin- leapt to 4.40 meters to grab fourth ish first in a time of 11: 12, RPI place. Kathy Bugden, making her was the next closest finisher 18 first appearance of the season, seconds behind. In the 45 meters, added a few points by placing Junior Dave Riggi finished sec- fomth in the high hurdles in a time ond in a time of 5.64 seconds. In of9.46 seconds and fourth in the the 800 meters, Junior Nick high jump clearing 4' 4\. Sopho- Conway and Pete Flynn basically more Julie Finnan placed third in held hands across the finish lii1e the shot put with a throw of 9.3 5 to finish first and second respec- meters. Jessica Goveia ran a great tively. Nick ran a time of 2:04.1 1000 meters placing a close sec- and Pete ran 2:04.12. In the 1000 ond in a time of3:21losing at the meters after a yeat of tryilig very e11d to a veteran senior nm- Sophomore Will Morris finally ner named Tina Busch of Saint scored some points for the team Rose. Molly Hood also scored in finishing third in a time of 2:49. the 1000 meters with a strong Mike Martin placed second in the time of 3:23 to finish fourth. triple jump with a leap of 11.97 Amelia Audette took 20 seconds meters, and then went home and off her indoor 3000 meter time to told everyone how much he en- • ----------------~--------. MOTOPHOTO Create Your Own Portraits With ~I:Cc;,';rc;,'\'V.ISIC>~ ........................................................................................ ' ' $2 Off PHOTOVISION . ' ··--··---·---·- ........................ ! ..................................... -: . . ~ $4~99 a X 10 ENLARGEMENTS~ limilllvee. : Omomoroppt'Jgo~N..tebNioM~t.ioouCiubMenOtt'S..V.anfooa10Y.of'fl , Noc Volod W'o<h\\'Oho< oo ... ~-- .............................................................. . 1 50% Off ftt.M PROCESSING : ' . ' ' : Dub MtriHIU SIN an fHtr a 'kt'/. oifl • No.Volid\lloh\\'bho.Ofle<, 1 ..................................................................................... ' 1041 State St. Schenectady NY 12301 (518)·382-5776 . ------------...------.

Sports MUSIC! MUSIC! a-na more MUSIC! L ·ve' S~oWS t :·I ' Jus.(.~.~ CD&TAPE 'RANCID -·HOOTIE · PEARL JAM·- TORI LIVE~ ETHERIDGE BUSH- RAMONES PORNO. FOR PYROS PIDSH-DEAD DA VE.MAITHEWS BJORK -BEASTIES and lots more ... Video Games SNES & Genesis Startat$5 All1995 OJ Tapes Only.$3 Each Rap, Reggae & Soul '(l!lle O!onrnrbiensi£1' • February 8, 1996 • Page 23 This Year in Swimming byMarkAnderson Hoede, Matt .. Smiley\ Mauriello, Bugs, StaffWriter Nate Schroeder, and Clark Smyth all have Let's take a momentto reflect on a sport proved to be a major part ofthe team's sue- that might not be overwhelmingly recog- cess. Others who have le,d .the team are nized, but one that has almost had a per- Kevin .. Make Daddy\Makarowski Mike fectrecordthroughouttheyear,andthatis \\Humpty Dumpty\ Humphreys, Matt swimming. New Head Coach Judy Wolfe ·\Woody\ Woodrow, Mike Macomber, Pete has perfonned almost unexpectedly in her ~·crack\ Spaulding, and Eric \'l never talk\ first year, accomplishing great feats which Menard. Diver Brian Field has performed were only dreams in the beginning of the flawlessly, smashing his own records from season. \ ~ast year. Ari Gottlieb, in his first year div- First for the men, led by senior captain~, in g. is proving that he is going to be a force Chris\llovemyhair\Riley,andJohn\666'~ to be reckoned with. The team travels to Fitzgerald, have pretty much dominated RPifortheirstatemeet, afterlast Saturday's their competition, especially two weeks ago triumph over St. Lawrence. Other strong againstan.unprepared Hamilton squad. The victories included Rochester, Middlebury, men's season has had a lot of success, al- Hartwick, RPI. Wesleyan, Trinity, and most though they lost to a tough defiant Will- glorifying Hamilton. The stage has been iamsteam. Dedicatingtheseasontofonner set and the team isswimminglike gang- Assistant Coach TJ Davis, the team fin- busters heading into the state and national ished their best season (9-1) in Men's meets. Swimming history with many new faces Although the women have not had as despite losing some great seniors last year. much success as the men, they rounded Freshmen Dave \Disco\ Seatles, Jeff out the season with a convincing win over St. Lawrence. Th~ team has had some great performances from individuals this year. They are led by tri-captains Jen \JD\ Davidson, Jenn Allaire, and Eri Hayashi. A Hthree captains are swimming better than ever. Other swimmers with great accom- plishments are seniors Jonatha Mead and Flo Chretien, juniors, Alyson McKee, Ct::Ce Buchanan, Jackie Crane, Sophomores Sarah Spaulding, Kelly Monahan, Colleen Reilly, Megan McCarthy, and last but not least Karen Watts! The only freshmen, Aimee Marko, heavily dedicated to swim- ming, stuck it out through thousands of yards and dropped her times significantly. Of course we cannot forget the divers that also make this team, junior Heather Kanser, and two freshmen, Carrie Madsen and Shontel Meachem. As women's states draw near, they plan to swim to another great fin ish as they have the la-.t few years. HECK WITH TilE CHEERLEADERS, WE'LL SlRUTOURSTUFF IN THE POOL! Uniori Ties Brown, Loses to Harvard Dagan LaCofte Staff Writet . I The Skating Dutchmen hit the road this past weekend, traveling to New England to face the Brown Bears and the llarvard Crimson. On Friday ni~' ht the Dutch- men ral.licd from a 2-0 d licit to tic the Bears. Through the firs two periods, the Dutchmen did not show much ef- fort as the Bears capitalized twice on Union's lackluster play. Goalie Leeor Shtrom, playing in his third consecutive game, helped keep the game close by making some key saves throughout the game. However, the Dutchmen woke up in the third period, playing some of their best hockey of the season. Junior Chris \Killer\ Ford found his scoring touch, beating the Brown net- minder four minutes into the third pe- riod .. Ford's goal sparked the rest of h. is teammates, as Jay Prentice evened the score at 2-2 twenty eight seconds later. The Dutchmen continued to apply pres- sure for the re- mainder of the third period and throughout the overtime, hut were unable to convert the game winner. The come-from- behind effort was Union's first ofthe season. Shtrom was in net once again the following night, this time against the Harvard Crimson. Unfortunately for Shtrom and the rest of the Union squad, things did not bode well as the Crimson blanked the Dutch- men 6-0. The Crimson played nearly perfect hockey, giving the Dutchmen very tew scoring chances. Union was unable to score a goal in a game for the fourth time this season. At present. the Dutchmen arc in ninth place in the ECAC, with eight games remaining in th<;: regular season. This weekend the Dutchmen play host to first p.lace St. Lawrence and the Golden Knights of Clarkson. The Dutch- men have had a great deal of past success against the Saints, but this season's squad is much improved. Men's Hoops Lose Three In A RoW(cont'dJ ing effort. Union made a run at the end, but could not break through llobart's defense as the Statesmen handed Union a 63-60 loss and their tenth out of their last sixteen games. TeCarr led the Dutchmen tl)r the second straight game, netting sixteen, and Bahrs played another strong game, grabbing ten rebounds to augment his sixteen points as the Dutchmen fell to 6-10 overall and 2-6 in the league. Hoop Notes: . Sophomore Jamie Haver is second in the Upstate Collegiate Athletic Association in scoring, averaging 19.2 points per game. Senior Rill Bahrs finished the week scoring a total of 52 points, raising his average to eight points per game. The Dutchmen's final games against league opponents arc February 9th against Clarkson and February lOth ~gainst St. Lawrence. .. -

February 8. 1996 PAGE 24 Men's Basketball: Dutchmen Lose Three In A Row .Jon Gasthalter Staff Writer Union came into the week with a six and seven overall record and a two and four mark in the Upstate Collegiate Ath- letic Association. Adding to the disap- pointment of their record, the Dutchmen were infonned that junior twins Shola and Doyin Richards will miss the remainder of the season because they both have a congenital heart problem. Aside from the medical issue .of making sure the Richard's brothers stay healthy, the team has lost a starter in Shola, who was av- eraging 12.5 points per game and a top reserve in Doyin. With this in their minds, the Dutchmen tipped off against an eleven imd four l~artwick team. Hartwick took control early into the game going on a 1 0~2 run to open the game. The Dutchmen fought their way back, but forced shots and a lack of communication causing holes on defense slowed the comeback. Hartwick's box- and-one defense held Union's leading scerer, senior Jamie Haver, to four points in the opening half. Senior for- ward BiH Bahrs kept the Dutchmen in the game, scoring thirteen nut of his twenty-twp points in the 1irst half. The Dutchmen came out of the Swimming Teams Win Last Meet Before States by Aaron Sicotte Staff Writer ~--- --------- The St. Lawrence University Swim- ming teams traveled to Union on Satur- day hoping to walk away with a couple of wins. Instead, hoth the men's and \Vomen's teams len with decisive losses at the hands of the Union swimmers. The men started the meet with a one - two finish in the 200 Med Relay that gave l Inion a lead they would never come dose to relinquishing. Led hy Michael llumphrcys, Union then took the top three spots in the SO Free. They also took the first three spots in the I 00 Fly. Kevin Makarowski continued his undefeated streak with another first place finish in that event. Clark Smyth swam to vic- tory in both the 1 00 and 200 Free. I lumphrcys also finished first in the 100 Back. In the diving competition, Brian Field and Ari Gottlieb finished one- two respectively in both the I and 3 meter events. In the I m, Field also set a school record with a score nf 278.775. In the end, the men sent StLawrence packing with a final score of ISO- 68. by a sweep of the top three spots in the 200 Free led by Jonatha Meade .. Eri Hayashi took Jirst in the 50 Free, and Cecelia Buchanon led a one - two - three finish in the 400 IM. Jackie Crane finished first in the 100 F1 y to tnke the f1rst of her t w~ victories. llcr second victory came Inter in the 500 Free. Meade swam to victory in the 100 Free and Sara Spaulding led another sweep of the top three spots in the I 00 Back to round out the first place finishes. Both St. Lawrence te arns had come to Union filled with conli- dencc, and were sent off feeling lockeroom flying to start the second half. Down 45-34, Union had tomount an of- fensive comeback and that would involve getting Haver and senior captain Matt Sugarman the ball. The Dutchmen did that, distributing the ball well and going on a 16•4 run with just seven minutes left in regulation to go up 62..:60. How-' ever, neither the Dutchmen nor the Hawks could gain a solid lead. as regulation time ended with Union sophomore Len Mortimore's final second attemptbounc- ingofToLthe rim to keep the score tied at 74-74. With three minutes Jell in the over- time period, Hartwick went up hy six points. Union, .in the midst of a run to regain .the lead, putthe ball in Sugarman's hands. Sugarman was fouled and sank two free throws to cut the lead to four, hut Hartwick turned around scoring the last five points ofthe game and went on, to win 90-81. On Friday, January 26, Hamilton (5 .. 1 in the league) played host to the strug- gling Dutchmen. Hamilton outplayed Union offensively, hitting fifty percent of their shots from the floor. Sopho- more Rob TeCarr led the Dutchmen with nineteen points and Haver and Bahrs combined for thirty-two in the 89-68 loss. Haver felt that the out- manned Dutchmen suffered from fa- tigue. \We just got a little worn out in the second half and we just were not able to ·keep up with them.:' The Dutchmen traveled to Hobart on January 27 to play against a young, inexperienced team. The game was tight throug,hout the Hrst halt: but the D\ltch- n.,lcn fell apart wilh twelve minutes .len in the game. \We just hit a stretch in the second half where we were getting some open shots. We just were not connecting on them. As a result they went on a run and we just were not able t0 come· back from it,\ said Haver, who scored fourteen points in the los- co11ti1med page 19 Union swimmer races agai1ut fierce competition Photo by Scott Druckmi/ler/Tile Concordie1rsi.v The women's final was a little closer, hut they still won convincingly with a score of 126-103. After a loss in the ini- tial relay, the women took firsts in eight of the next nine events. Coleen Reilly and Karen Watts started with a one- two fin- slightly humil.iatcd, =~::=-:=:--:;~~=~~~=~~~~;~~~~~=~~~~~~~~ after having felt the wrath of the men's ish in the 1 and women's teams one - two punch combination. Next week that combi- nation will be severely tested as both teams head to States, looking for yet another ... ~.·~~, · Union diver compete:; on Saturday ;, competition at Alumni Gym Photo hv Scott Druckmiller/fhe Concortlensis Women's Hoops 2/9- CLARKSON 6:00 2/1 0- ST. LARRY 2:00 2/13- ({9 Williams 7:30 Men's Hoops 2/9- CLARKSON 8:00 2/10- ST. LARRY 4:00 Women's Swimming 2/15·17- NYCWCAA Champ. @ llamilton 2:00 Track 2/10- Hamilton Invitational II :00 Hockey 2/9- CLARKSON 7:30 2/10- ST. LARRY 7:00 l { ._; I' i

.. ' f I' i Concordy Online @ http://virtual.union.edu/~concordy/index.html . . . ' ' . - . . . . ... .., on .cor t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXV, Number XII Schenectady, New York February 15, 1996 Will New Library Stack Up?? --~--~-~--- Rogers, and Partners is an old The question looming over library will be approximately The first step of the project by Marty McNulty Boston firtnresponsible for the most people's heads is what is twenty-thousand square feet· will be to completely renew the Staff'Writer modeling· of colonial this seventeen million dollars bigger, it is a design mainly set periodical/ study room in the Since the beginning of the· nine-million dollar program to restore the Nott Memorial took effect, the Union College com- munity has been hearing rumors concerning the restoration of our library. Last Friday, these ru- mors gave way to actual plans at a board meeting to diseuss the future ofthe library. Williamsbet;~, . going to do for our library, and to maximize efficiency in space back of the library. Currently, The p:r:oject ~~ ~xpected to when wiU we be able to enjoy that we already have. ~he room has structural problems cost .seve?teen mdhon dollars the benefits? The project is ex- The new library will also be m that the floors have started to and IS bemg covered by three pected to take eighteen months a highly electronic library which sag. The space on the first .floor major gran~salong w~thgener.:. beginning in August or Septem- witl ma:ke ay,aiJable both com- in the back of the library will ous alu~m contributlo~. The berof1996.andhopefully open- puters, and links for personal al~o be add~d to the second and three maJor grants, backtng the ing sometime towards the end of computers to connect to the thud floor m an attempt to ere- library project are, a grant from 1997. The seventeen miHiondol- intemet, World Wide Web, and ate more room for students to theNationalEndowmentforthe larproject is broken down into e-mail from special study booths study and more room for hold- Humanities(NEH), a grant from threedifferentcosts.Twomillion that will be set up. There will ings. the Kresge Foundation, and a ofthefundis beingusedto cover also be an electronic classroom The next step of the preject grant from the Emerson Foun- building and maintenance costs to teach students how to use the will be to completely gut the dation. Barbara Jones, head li- three million to cover the cos~ new library equipment, and ad- front section of the library. brarian, also commented that of technolog; and twelve mil- ditional conference rooms with While they are not changing the \alumni support has been very lion to cover ~he cost of bricks multi-media capabilities avail- facade of the library, they are The blue plans have already been laid, and Union has chosen Perry, Dean, Rogers, and Part- ners as the architectural fitm to handle the job. Perry, Dean, generous.\ and.t:fiortar. Although the new able to the students. completely restructuring it from .> •• •• • the inside by, reorganizing space ·-···<'fhfs·pastSatardtty;Unj'Qn<DoU~ge4tatJ=,its•'20·1stbirtllday·Wittt · ::a·cetebr«ti~n>o:fmtematiortalismx · 1!llougntlt~··celebrati0n\Was· ·· · .:eluu:a~teliized:·~ith•a/lt;)t·le.ss~:ranwe\.thall: b};styeats;.bicentent:ihlf•·· ~· •·• · · ··· .···· ;.exti.$Vaganza; .. ·a\smalleun¥oca~ofl!wasJi(llQ!'ln:Me'tt'IDna'l'<Ohapel~ In•atten:dancfkWere:faculty,.·staif;:studentsj.trustees:andofcoursel·. .. . . tbis•·:¥~~rs:b~no~f:eS'f ·A'¢cotding•t<1F:resb:ient11l:ult~ intemati()nal-.\ . ·,· . · is:ttti~··som.~ttg·that;we•l!>eli¢v~.snton~¥\in;· .'lw··honot·•l;lf:'thl£i .· . .-.••·.• · · helje:f*\ttueepr,~i~el1:ts:;ftO$far:~ign:instituii0ns·wetegiven.hon;,.<.· .. ·. · · ori\l:y .. degr.ees··~ec<tgniziug. Ut<::lit cotnmitln:ents: •to·:internationat-..· , .. ·.·••. ·i:sm:and~spttciaUythe•·sJ.lpporti:hey Qffered:tothe.Union·CoJlege · ...... . tevms abroad prognun .. ···.. . ' . . . • . ' . . . . > • .• ' ·• . •·• · . The three ho~o:ree~ were.Gt>rq<:mR;.McGtegQr~af'o~erpr~n~ , c1pal of the Umvers1ty College of Ripon a~d York St. John in . York, England,. Tan Feng Liang, Pr€:sident of Nanjing Normal University in Nanjjng, China, an4 Sadato Tanimoto, President . of Kansai 9~daL University in Os~ Japan. All three were bestowed with .h()norary d~grees from the college. Each presi~ dent made short speeches pra,ising the O()llege*s commitment to internationalism. : Gord1,m. r~ McQre.gor p~isedthe college f{)r, • its love oflearning and in particular the cofleg.:{s commi'tfilent to · impr(win~ itself. the quality of its students~ and the overall qual- Above,Presitlent Hull delivers address during Founders Day celebration. Left, Trustee Robert DeMichele has .lunch with current Union students as they discuss major issues facing Union students, alumni and administration. Photos by Laurel Ruma The Concordiensis arrangements to create more room. A series of atriums and bridges will be added to allow for more natural light and to give the library a more open and bright feeling. Due to all of the noise during construction, there will be alter- nate study rooms set up at other campus locations. Since many of the library's books will be in stora·:e durin] C\lnstruction there \\ i 1 l • h J r ~ ~J)ecial ar- rangements made with the Skidmore I ibrary (which is brand new this year) for thesis students, and those in need of extensive materials for research.

Thursday February 15, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone Harold Lohner Exhibition- Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings Exhibit: Splendor in Stone Chet's open B:GOa 9:00a 12:00p B:OOp 8:30a NOIT .MEMORIAL 6:00p ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM lO:OOp NOTT MEMORIAL 12:00a CC CHE7'S Friday, Fe'bruary 16, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 8:00a Harold Lohner Exhibition- Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings 9:00a Exhibit: Splendor in Stone l2:00p Chet's open 8i00p 8:30a NOIT MEMORIAL 6:00p ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM 5:00p NOIT MEMORIAL 12:00a CC CHETS Saturday, February 17, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 8:00a Harold Lohner Exhibition- Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings 9:00a Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 12:00p 8:30a 6:00p 5:00p NOTT MEMORIAL ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM NOIT MEMORIAL Sunday, February 18, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone Harold Lohner Exhibition- 8:00a 8:30a NOIT MEMORIAL Silent H<?,_roes-Prints/Drawings 9:00a 6:00p ARTS BUILDING ATRIDM Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 12:00p lO:OOp NOTT MEMORIAL Monday, February 19, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 8:00a Harold Lohner Exhibition- Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings 9:00-a Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 12:00p 8:30a NOIT MEMORIAL 6:00p ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM lO:OOp NOIT .MEMORIAL Tuesday, February 20, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 8 :OOa Harold Lohner Exhibition- Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings 9 :OOa Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 12:00p Jeannette Springer Lecture 7 :OOp Free Movies: \Reality Bites\ and \Singles\ 7 :OOp Play: \Our Young Black Men Are Dying and Nobody Seems to Care\ 7 :30p 8:30a NOTI MEMORIAL 6:00p ARTS :BUILDING ATRIUM 10:00p NOTT .MEMORIAL 8:3~p CC AUDITORIDM 11 :OOp CC CHET'S 1 O:OOp MEMORIAL CHAPEL Wednesday, February 21, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone Harold Lohner Exhibition- 8 :OOa 8:30a NOTT MEMORIAL Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings 9:00a 6:00p 10:00p 7:30p 12:00a ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM NOTT MEMORIAL Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 12:00p Ash Wednesday Mass 6:30p HH OLD CHAPEL Chet's Open 8:00p CC CHET'S Thursday, February 22, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone Harold Lohner Exhibition- Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings Exhibit: Splendor In Stone Chet's Open 8:00a 8:30a NOIT MEMORIAL 9:00a 6:00p ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM l2:00p IO:OOp NOTT MEMORIAL 8:00p 12:00a CC CHET'S l,JNION COLLEGF; CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY DATE/TIME LOCATiON 'MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5,1996:. 1 :05 AM Di!vidson 3:40PM Chi Psi 3:50PM Alumni Gym TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6,.1996: 7:10AM Ri!ymond South 1:43PM· Alumni Gym INCIDENT AGGRAVATED IIARASSMENT: Visitor attempting! to gain access to room wa5 verbally ab1,1sive to student. Checked area-,suspect not located. TH.EFT: Wallet st()len from pocket of student's jacket. Jacket was left unattended during social DlSORDERLY CONDUCT: Fight reported. All quiet on arrival. No one willing to provide informa- tion regarding incident. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Paint dripped on floor. Occurred when room doors were being painted. TIIEFTIFORGERY: Student's wallet stolen from unlocked locker. Credit card used off campus. SPD notified. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, \996: 12:45 AM Richmond HARASSMENTIRF;CKLESS E.ANGERMENT: 12:30 PM Webster House THURSDA Y,.FEBRUARY 8, 199ti: 2:22 AM Campus Grounds 9:05PM 9:08PM 7:44PM Fox South Fox North Campus Ops Off Campus Confrontation between two students. Window oro1cen1 during incident. Conduct Charges filed. AGGRAVATED HARASSMENT: Student threatened by a staff member over the telephone. SPD contacted. Investigation in progress. VANDALISM: Tree di;U11aged along North Entry walkway. . VANDALISM: Courtesy phone in entry damaged. VANDALISM/SAFETY HAZARD: Exit sign damaged. Sign is inoperable. MOTOR VEHICLE THEFT: Campus Operations truck stolen. SPD notified. Vehicle located in Schenectady and suspect .(visitor) was apprehende9 and anested. Vehicle not darnag;ea.J HARASSMENT: Two students were confronted at KFC by male suspect who threatened them because he did.n •t like the way they looked at him. A handgun was obseJVed on suspect but was not used in the threat. Suspect followed students when they left KFC. SPD was contacted. Area was searched but suspect was not found. SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1996: 3:28AM Edwards House SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Campus visitor extremely intoxicated. Host student located and responded to take care of his guest. · 3:55AM Fox North DISORDERLY CONDUCT/HARASSMENT: 4:30AM 10:45 PM Campus visitors creating a disturbance in residence hall. The RA was verbally harassed during attempt to quiet them down. Visitors and llosts identified. Alexander Lane VANDALISM: Lock on north side barrier chain broken. Achilles Rink HARASSMENT: Visitor verbally harassed staff member and student. Suspect left prior to officer's arrival. Suspect's identity is known. SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 11, l996: 1 :50 AM . Coilege Center UNAUTHORI?-ED ENTRY /ATTEMPTED 7:11AM 5:40PM 7:49PM THEFT: Intrusion a.lann was activated. Responding officers located a student in the building. Student was attempting to take items. Conduct Charges filed. Lenox Road VANDALISM: Picket fencing around campus property damaged, Riclunond LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Lighted candle in residence hall room. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. College Center UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: UCDH was entered. Suspects searched through items and rentoved several keys/cards. No damage occurred. I l

'I \ 'mqt C!tnururhiensis • February 15, 1996 • Page 3 Campus News Min11ie B:fuce Pratt: There's more than meets the eye by Ailee11 Quigley Staff Writer 'btJtch have arisen in the lesbian community to compensate. Prior to this discussion session, Bruce read from her poetry and prose. Dwing her pre- The cliche \You Cllll 't judge a book by its sentation, she told her enthralled audience the cover\ manifested itself in a serene figure emotionaHy-charged story of a woman reading her poetry in the Nott Memorial on named Vera, a lesbian she nursed on her Tuesday,. February(ith. A motherly .smile and deathbed. Vera was dying as .a result of years soft gray curls franu;d the face of this ·devout · spent spreading asbestos-ridden insulation feminist, Ie~bial:! and gay rights activist. into attics ye!lf-W'Qild. The flimsy mask she Though she was previously married and has wore did little to protect her from the respi:- a son, she made affectionate references to her ratory problems and physical deterioration \drag king\ lover. Her own appearance, she she was now experienqing. Vera took this told us, was more \fern;~' as opposed to the dangerous job because it was her only op- \butch.\ persona of her lover. These teJ1IIls tion; ~he needed_ the money and couldn't find have been used as a form of categorizatio.!J, · anytbing that patd more. Yet Ver~ refused to in order to differentiate the appearances of ·re~ort to selhng drugs. or an~hmg of that lesbians, though Pr&tt felt that they are not nature. She was determmed to hve an honest specific enough. She pointed o~t th~t people life even if that would be the price: her very rarely fall into such ·convenient labels, ~ut life. yera. spent the last days of ?er life in a are rather in between. To be more precise, P.lastic p~son, and B~ce ';as nght by her combinations like butchy fern and femmy stde, bathing her and hstenmg to her speak ofthe.clothes shewanted to be buried in. This whole scenario frustrated Bruce, who hated to see this wonderful person fading away tc no~ing. Broce felt that if the economy of this country was different, Vera might still be alive today. Other stories of strong women who refused the easy way O'!J.t of things were shared as well. Bruce told her listeners of the unforget- table Thanksgiving Day her lover found her- self carving the family turkey. No one knew that day who would assume this position, tra- ditionally.reserved for the Head ofthe House- hold. Yet this was no ordinary household. The awkwardness diminished as soon as the knife was picked up, and everyone seemed re- lieve& It was as if the essential elements of the family were still present, though maybe the conventional format was not. Minnie Bruce Pratt's powerful diction and dialect conveyed to her audience that happi- ness and fulfillment can be found in settings you may least expect, but probably felt all along. She was married as a young woman, which she attributed to a lack of knowledge of alternatives. After her marriage ended, she was able to explore the feelings she always felt were natural. My closest relationships were with women, and her first boyfriend was al~o very effeminate. The lesbian life-style, though fulfilling, has by no means been easy. Pratt shared an ex- perience from one of her classes on the anni- versary of the Montreal massacre, the hor- rible incident unfolded of a misogynist man who killed 14 women engineers for trying. to take male jobs. Crossing gender bouridaries is rarely safe, though it is not this that makes someone a feminist. Rather, it is someone who is active in support of women and their untapped potentiaL Therefore, it is not im- .possible for men to be feminists. They just have to ask themselves if they've got w;hat it takes. Congressman McNulty to Address Union by Michelle Ellis News Editor Do you support the amQunt of Ameri- can dollars t~t ~e given to Middie East- ern countries annuaUy? Do you want to know how Congress feels about the fu- ture of Jerusalem? Do yoJ,l think the United States should be pressuring Israel to make peace with Syria? If you are in- terested in how United States policy im- pacts the Middle East, come and listen to the perspectives of Congressman McNulty, as he addresses the Union stu- dent body. land. After eight years he became Mayor McNulty became Whip-at -large for the Congr~ssman McNulty will be speak.. of Green Island and in 1982 he was 103rd Congress. He has served on the ing at the Reamer Campus Center Audi- elected to represent New York's 1 06th House Armed Services Committee, the ton urn on Friday, February 16th. at 5:00 Assembly District. Small Business Committee, and the Com- pro. His address wilJ concern how Middle In 1988 he was elected to the U.S. mittee on Post Office and Civil Service. Eastern politics impact American politics. Hou~ of Representatives .for the 23rd Following his election to the 1 03rd. Con- Congressman McNulty represents the Congressional Pistrict of New York and gress, McNulty was elected to the House 23rd District, which encompasses he was re-elected in 1990. In 1992 he was Ways and Means Committee, which he Schenectady County, Albany, Saratoga, elected to represent the 21st Congres- continues to serve on, having just been and Montgomery Counties. He is in his sional District of New York, and he was reappointed. 26th year in elective office. McNulty be- re-elected in 1994. This event is being sponsored by gan his political career serving as tl:le While in office, he served as Freshman AIPAC, (the American Israel Public Af- youngest Town Supervisor in New York Majority Whip for the Northern Region fairs Committee) the Jewish Student State. At 22 years old he became the su- of the country during the first session of Union, and the College Democrats: pervisor of the small village of Green Is- the 101 st. Congress. Congressman ' : ' ' ~-, ~· . .:,J • •\ • • ~ ~ .. ~ ' . . ' ' ~ . ' ~ . • • • • ' ;J,\l~ ... ,J ti. •,\1\ '- '\'~''It\~~~.· :\'.-.:• ;.~~- --:~·~ <,:··-·,~ :- . __ ,..,_.,....,.._~,...· ., . ·. • ~ .~' :-;~;,·., <T, ';~ __ :-'\ ' 'I' ~ < ,' •\' ~-·'\\ ,. r ,, • -· -Gr,eat ·Tun·es,·T-alk ·and Rock and Roll: Celebrate With WRUC; ).:..;,;~·!]. ·!·_~.ro~·~-:: ;' ~·· __ .. <,': ·._·· .. ··:' • \ .... : .. ~ by Stephanie ·Slobotkin · · · ·, Staff writer · broadcastGpthe American radio. It is· music to our ears. The beat con- tinues to wake us up; add flavor to our rooms and lull tis to sleep. The music is accompanieCl by various talk shows, in~· tervfews, sports and other radio related ' information. WRUC, Union's very own· radio station is proud to announce that this year is their seventy-fifth 3f111i:ver- sary. Along' with the Bicenteimiarbelng celebrated at Union in 1995, WRUC de- $erves recognition and con- It was not until 1940 that Union's ra- dio station adopted the name we are most familiar with, WRUC, which stands for Wireless Radio Union College. In 1975 the station moved to the FM band and ever since then, has provided many mu 7 sic alternatives to commercial radio. Ad- ditionally, WRU.C J'las a strong executive board of individli.afs whb work hard to serve Unions entertainment tastes. The station also has a WWW homepage on the Internet, and a request line. Addition- ally, during the last weekend in January WRUC had a luncheon to commemorate their anniversary. Representatives of classes from 1944 to 1999 who partici- pated in the radio club were present. Matt Macinnis, WRUCs program man- ager commented: The ~ven.t exemplified the pride former radio club members had in WRUC ... the station has a strong his- tory that should not go without recogni- tion. WRUC has progressed in all aspects ofbroadcasting. The radio station's sev- enty-fifth anniversary reflects its unend- ing success and adds a positive note to the atmosphere of all who listen. While we celebrated the Bicentennial of Union in 1995, Jet us also congratulate and com- . mend the success ofWRUC for seventy- five years of excellence and dedication. gratulations as well. On Oct9ber 14, WRUC celebrated the anniversary of being the first radio broadcast at Union College. In 1920 the name of the ra- dio station was 2ADD, and the members·ofthe College's radio club, at the time be- came the operators of the first radio station in the United States: the first sta- tion in the nation. WRUC is proud to have developed from 2ADD. The original broadcasts from 2ADD were the very first to be heard by the general public from places over 620 miles north of Schenectady. The original station, in 1920 broadcast various important news information such the Novembet 2 Harding vs. Cox presidential election and the Hobart-Union foot- ball game on November 14. Also, that very football ''game was the first sports COME INTO MOJO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGSI Schenectady 1 041 State Street 382·5778 ·---------------.--------------.------------- .. I 82.00 OFF 1 50%· OFF : 84.88 I : PHOTOV· ·IliON. I p· ·R· OCESSING •811 0 ENLARGEMENT: I ·. · · - · : · . · · · · ~ Limit 3 8xl 0 enlargements. I I Receive $2.00 off Photovision 1 ~eceive SO% ~ff the re~~ 1 From your 35mm color I I when visitl'ng Moto Photo. I pnce of processmg and pnnting I negative. I I I color print film. I Custom cropping may be available at I 1 Limit one. Not valid with other coupons or I Limit thr~e r~lls. Standard size prints only. I additional charge. Not valid with other 1 I offers. Club members receive I 0% off Not vahd w1th other coupons or extra set coupon price. I promotions:- Club members receive 10% off I coupons or offers. Club members receive I I l 0% off coupon price. I coupon price. I I I . 011111 NOIIII ll ,_11111111 wtf ON. 1101111 ~ MOTOPHO .. I'P!TD~r~rl MOTOPHOTill MOTOI'HOTv:. ·----------------------------------------·

Campus News Founders Day cont'd ity of higher education. When asked if the short ten week trimester interfered with the students ability to acclimate to a new culture and the quality of the terms abroad experience, he stated that the ten week term doesn 1 t seem to affect the stu- dents, Union students were quite quick in their ability to acclimate. Tan Feng Liang, in an exclusive inter- view with the Concordiensis had nothing but praise for the ·school and the students who study in China every year. Union College has become an international uni- versity and our future will be very bright, said Tan Feng Liang. He also expressed that he was impressed with the high qual- ity of students that were sent to China ev- ery year and was committed to continu- ing the exchange. He felt that the pro- gram not only provided an international experience for Union students, but that Nanjing students were helped greatly by the close contact with the English lan- guage and American culture. Sadato Tanimoto, of Kansai Gadai University, also had similar praise. I am quite impressed with the quality of stu- dents and we would like to continue this exchange program. He also expressed an objective to increase the number of Japa- nese students who come to Union. He stated that, 14 or 15 Japanese students have participated in exchanges witr Union. But, according to Sadato Tanimoto this number should be raised to have equal representation at both Kansai Gadai Uni- versity and Union College. He also con- sidered Union one of the better institutions that Kansai Gadai University has had re-. lations with. Since this Founders' Day focused so much on internationalism, it was no sur- prise to see Professor William W. Tho- mas, the director of the Terms Abroad pro- gram at the convocation. When asked about the future of the terms abroad pro- gram he was adamant that Union would continue to fully support President Hull's goal of having a 100% partici- pation rate. When asked about future programs, he revealed that Union will establish another exchange in Zimba- bwe starting in the Winter of 1997. This will bring the total of all terms abroad programs to 27 by Winter of 1997, a figure that is extremely large for a college of this size. Any other new programs will most likely be imple- mented much later considering that col- lege has already committed a lot of time and money to establishing the current programs President Hull delivered his annual address on Saturday. Hull expressed his commitment to the terms abroad pro- gram and the new Virtual Terms Abroad program. At the same time, he empha- sized that Union needs to improve its language program, an area of study he considers crucial for students of the 21st century and study abroad. He stated, We need to find more innovative ways of teaching languages. It was clear from the speeches that the world is becom- ing much more interconnected and that foreign language fluency will become crucial to succeed. Saturday's Founders' Day celebra- tion was not the only special event of the weekend. On Friday afternoon over one hundred students had the opportu- nity to have lunch with the trustees who were on campus for the Founders' Day celebrations. Most students had posi- tive feelings about the lunch, which was designed to give students the opportu- nity to get together with the trustees and discuss campus issues. Clearly, the highlight oflast week- ends Founders' Day celebration was the overall commitment that Union College took to further pursue the ideals of \a more perfect Union\ that included a glo- bal outlook. Hazelhurst Wontan Hangs Self and Cat COPIAH COUNTY, Mississippi - The usually quiet community of Hazelhurst was stirred to local resentment and national renown overnight when the body of \Momma\ Magrath and the family cat were found swinging from the rafters in the family's cellar. The lonely middle-aged mother of three girls and a cat was discov- ered by her second daughter on Sunday morning. The Magrath family had moved to Hazelhurst from Vicksburg a few years back, and the woman's husband abandoned his wife and children nearly a year ago last week. One of the neighbors had this to say, \The Magraths was always a perty nice sort of family. Mr. Magrath too always seemed like a right cheerful sort of guy, always smiling and showing every one his· teeth. I was mighty surprised when he left the women folk to fend for themselves. That weren't right. Mrs. Magrath took it real hard. She seemed strong at first, but then when times started getting tough, and with the girls to rear by herself, she just kinda gave up. Toward the end, she sat apart whole days just sitting there and smoking on the back porch. She'd sling her ashes down onto the different bugs and ants that was passing by.\ Authorities expect that despair over her husband's depar- ture drove this woman to suicide, but no one knows why she hung her cat too. Sheriff Roscoe said, \We just can't figure out why she done it. Everyone around says she liked that ole yeller cat.\ \Momma\ Magrath is survived by her three girls, Leonora, Margaret, and Rebecca. The girls will be taken care of by their grandpar- ents. The entire Hazelhurst community, however, frowns upon the hanging and the repercussions of this incident will doubtless be felt for years to come. A member of the Ladies Social League, one Mrs. Porter, said that any or all of the Magrath girls and their kin will most likely be excluded from League participation hereafter: \Some- thing serious would have to strike us deep in our bowels for the Ladies Social League to welcome a Magrath as a member.\ ADVERTISEMENT Bill Henley's Crimes of The Heart will be playing February 28 ·March 2 and March 6-9 at the Yulman Theater Wire <tlnncu:rbi.e:nzis • February 15, 1996• Page 4 Campus Paperback Bestseller~ t. 'ltlecatvlc\.AndHobbu.TtmthAIYtlv.t:aaryBook. by BID Wattersot1. (Andiews & McMIBI, $H.!l5.)cArtoom. ~-=~'l~~,t;r~:~~~~~~-00.) 3. \Chlck.nSouirFornieSoul b'J. .b.dtCanfleij&ndMail( Vttor Hamon. {HNI!hConvrnric:alions, $12.00.} -~lor tioart& Sl:)lflt. 4. r=~~a~~=~=·f:r:!! 6. ~~~~n..=~:-=~ I.~~~~~(=,SI0.95.) _., ... o;...o.<l ____ ., ___ .. _ _,.l,\\'l New:& Recommended ·-- ....... --._, ____ e.o_ Hcwltl•lrlah$1wtciCIV!IIzatiOri.by-Thomas Cehil; (Aru:tvit, $12.95.} Thotn_klfd ttoryciiUIIMd's·hemlc rule from 1he faY of Romt to 1M li$&ol m«<ival Europe. MOUnt4il\ Ou-tdoor Gear U Clothing Fleece Clothing Baekpacks Hiking Boots Tents Rain w-ear Outer-wear Sleeping Bags Camping Supplies Climbing Equipment Peace Corps at Union College Wednesday. February 21, 1996 Peace Corp~ Interviews: Applications and sign-up at Career Services. All applications must be completed and submitted at time of interview. For 35 Years Over 140,000 Peace Corps Volunteers Have Put Their Idealism into Action. Now it's Your Turn. For more info call: 1-800-424-8580, Ext. 1 College Rings , Newest Styles! Any College Any Year! 3 Week Delivery. Now Available Direct by Accessing our Web site on the internet. Fully Guarenteed, Great Prices. Come Visit our site and order your College Class Ring. http:l/www.collegerings.net Or phone us at (718) 443-4260 ,I ' I

February 15, 1996 m~t.e C!Io:u.corbi.e:ust£' International: *The coffin ofSgt. 1st Class Donald Allen Dugan, the first American in the NATO peace- keeping force to die in Bosnia, was flown home. NATO of- ficials say the explosion that killed Sgt. first class Dugan was .probably not from a land mine. * Defense Secretary William J. ~Perry insisted today that NATO would expand with new members from Eastern Europe. Defense Secretary Perry said this move would actually improve Russian se- curity. * The southern province of Yunnan in China was struck by a powerful earthquake, with 14,000 Chinese injured and 200 people dead. The Chinese army was mobilized for rescue efforts and Chinese leadership appealed for inter- national aid. * The United Nations, facing prospects ofbankruptcy, plans to cut its payroll by 10 per- cent. American dues are owed, in the amount of $1.5 billion. But Congress and the President are unable to agree on a total plan to wipe out that deficit. * The United States military cordon placed on sea borne trade with Iraq is looking at the prospects of U.N. spon- sored talks to sell $2 billion wot1h of oil for food and medi- cine for the civilian popula- tion, as potential problem area for monitoring and controlling the trade. Since 1990, 22,000 vessels have been intercepted trying to enter restricted zones. * Cables to the State and De- fense Depru1ments show that the public posture the United States took in regard to Hai- tian violence and the member groups who conducted it, were at odds with what the United States knew before the 1994 \invasion.\ * Rene Preval was sworn in as the new Haitian President succeeding Jean-Bertrand Aristide. * The United States sent a ton of plutonium to 39 countries dm1ng multiple decades. The acknowledgement was re- vealed by the Energy Depart• ment in a bid for great open- ness with the end of the Cold War. * China will buy 72 advanced fighter planes from Russia. The planes are the SU-27 at- tack fighter. It is also reported that Russia sold the license to build these domestically in China for '$2 billion. On the other hand, Taiwan will take delivery of 150 American F- 16 fighters and 60 French Mirage 2000 fighter-bombers this year. * Dzko~har Dudayev, the leader of the Chechen sepa- ratists, said the Western world had \provided $6 bil-. lion to aid Russian aggres- sion and when the moment comes, we'll attack not Mos- cow but Western Europe.\ Nation: * Government data shows that Medicare's Hospital In- surance Trust Fund lost money last year for the first time since 1972. In a report to Congress in April, the Ad- ministration estimated that the amount of money in the trust fund would increase by $4.7 billion in the 1995 fis- cal year, which has already passed. The real figure, ac- cording to officials, fell by $35.7 million, to $129.5 bil- lion. * The governors at the Na- tional Governor's Associa .. tion, said that they estab- lished a bi-partisan proposal on Medicaid, hoping to break the stalemate in Wash- ington. The states will have to revise their budgets if Welfare and Medicaid pro- grams are not agreed to by the Congress and the Presi- dent because money and S!lvings ~:ill not materialize for the states. They also ap- proved a welfare measure to close the gap between the President and Congress. * President Clinton submit- ted an outline of20 pages for his 1997 budget as he is re- quired to do by law. The dif- ference is that it was 20 pages, rather than the noimal 2000. He proposed a $L64 trillion spending plan for 1997, sketching how he would balance the budget and offer modest tax relief. Congress has already re- jected the plan. * Bob Dole asserted this past week that the nation under President Clinton had gone \downhill\ and the correc- tive measure was electing someone from his genera- tion. Many rivals for theRe- publican nomination have expressed vociferous con- cern over Bob Dole's age to seed doubts in people's minds. This remark is a tac- tic that Dole is using to blunt that effect frorn his rivals. * A rapid cold snrge is af- fecting U.S. crops. It is too early to tell the extent of the damage. * Fortner President Ronald Reagan turned 85. Mr. Reagan has Alzheimer's dis- ease, is no longer comfort- able in public, his aides say, and did not attend his birth- day party with 500 well- wishers. - Justice Harold Baer Jr. on the Federal Court in lower Manhattan, is being criti- cized for his decision which is viewedas anti-police. On. Jan. 24, Judge Baer tossed out as evidence 80 pounds of cocaine and heroin seized from a car driven by a con- fessed drug courier. Judge Baer also attacked the cred- ibility of the atTesting offic- ers and chastised other offic- ers who work in the Wash- ington Heights neighbor- hood. Senator Daniel P. Moynihand, who recom- mended the Judge for the prestigious lifetime appoint- ment to the Federal bench, said he regretted the en- dorsement. -New York City police have issued an alert to officers to be on the lookout for a ciga- rette lighter that shoots a .25 caliber bullet with the flick lOoWHITE! of a thwnb. The weapons are called \smoking g1,111s\ .by the police. Last year, a similar alert went out for guns dis- guised as ball pqint pens. - Because of City Hall offi- cials' role in mediation in the last few hours, more than 30,000 maintenance workers in New York City office tow- ers ended their month long strike when their union ac- cepted a compromise plan un- der which management would pay newly hired workers 20 percent less than current work- ers. .. Mayor Giuliani, asked agen- cies to brace for more cuts, with a total savings reaching $500 million. The savings translates into a 5 percent re- duction in each city agency, and shows Mr. Giuliani mak- ing an about face on his re- mark that he would not make IOO BtALK? World News across-the-board cuts so he could protect social services. - Block grants in Governor Pataki' s budget envision a di- minished role, with power going to localities. This is a major idea that Republican's have been pushing for, devo- lution of power away from Washington and bureaucra- cies. - Assembly Democrats are pushing for access to Pataki' s inaugural funding and are thinking about holding pub- lic ,hearings with subpoenas of Mr. Pataki's aides to tes- tify about the funding pub- licly. - The Green Acres shopping mall in Long Island is ad- vancing new security mea- sures to deal with its record on safety and crime. JVST RIGHf!!

The Apex of Progress, the Depths of Despair: The.Forltler Soviet Republics Road to Democracy and Market Reform by Matt Sandler World News Editor support to help strengthen and seed the hold of democracy, law, and the court system. This would assist market economy laws. .In 1993, Russia asked for $15 billion in loans. Presi- dent Clinton offered a half a billion in soft ing with the Former Soviet Re- publics. In the Ukraine, the fuel was scarce and the showers were cold. It was a different reality and .showed things that were ·not directly related to their assignments in a way more di- rectly re- \Refonn reform, reform\ say Washington and the West to Russia. \Meet X, Y and Z conditions and then you can get your International Monetary Fund (I.M.F.) loans.\ The United States and Western Eu• rope told them what has to be done. Ifthe Russians are seri- ous about the prospects and they refonn, they can have more financial aid and fiscal moni- tors from the I.M.F. However, the Russians and other Former Soviet republics must show and take the initiative of reform first. Conventional wisdom is not as simple as this scenario. The Russians (formerly the So- viets) were operating under a command economy and au- thoritarian mle for hundreds of years. Democracy is not some- thing the Russian people have a history of or money, which became the basis of the contracts and was in the fonn of tech- nical support. Hard money, on the other hand, is money depos- ited with mini- mal strings at- Experts, loans, Congress, inter- est groups, the bureaucracy, the battle has lated to their task than was in their prepared as- sessment. \What was the sta- tus? What do you need?\ were the ques- tions posed. January he went to Ukraine for the on-site assessment. What was needed was \access to the law, sooner than they were get- ting it.\ The movement away from inquisitorial trials (where the judge did all the work) to. adversarial (two sides) needed work. In addition, Russia had · reintroduced the jury trial, dif- ferent from our system with only 7 out of 12 jurors needed to convict someone. The train- ing was needed in how to carry out the aspects of the l'aw. TI1ese countries are not with- out law or laws, but the area they were entering was virgin territory. just begun. understand tached, into a nation's budgets or for nuclear disannament. The recipients of hard money include Israel, Egypt, and Russia for nuclear disarmament Pro- fessor very well. So what does the Westdo? Ex- perts were not going to im- pose their re- forms on the countries, but help these dif- ferent coun- t r i e s strength en their system under the aus- \What are the specifics? What Robert Sharlet, a Union faculty mem- ber of the Po- litical Science D e - part- ment, do you need.\ \Access to thelaws sooner than we're ting them.\ get- pices ofrefonn. The difference is that tlte fanner reforms a sys- tem irrespective of culture, his- tory, national pride, and other mitigating factors. 11te latter works in an environment of equals, to pursue the .common cause of strengthening demo- cratic institutions. For the ends, these are the means em- ployed, with this distinction going a long way. Think if the situation were reversed, would Americans like the Russians teaching us in a way that made us feel inferior? The Agency for International Development (AID) set up con- tracts for bid and the Rule of Law Consortium won three out· of the four contracts. The Rule of Law ~:,rroup was to provide, under soft money, technical was at the center of the Rule of Law Consortium. He was in the middle of bureaucracy and cross-currents of vested inter- ests, policy, The State Depart- ment, and Congress. I had the opportunity last week to speak with Professor Sharlet, and we spoke for four hours on a wide range of topics concerning this effort. Tite AID stmcture was rapid. For example, the assess- ment of the legal system in the Ukraine needed to be com- pleted. Deadlines were not in weeks, but sometimes in hours, or the very next day. Then came the on-site assessment. nte team would tour regional areas, using only the assess- ment document as a guide. Lis,.. tening, observing, using ex- perts, research and diplomatic skills all took part in negotiat- TiteRule of Law Con- sortium had to deal with \para- chutists\ experts and special- ists at the top of their field com- ing in with packages. One such example was the model bank- ruptcy code. These experts were fashioning a Chapter 11 type law. At this time, what would the Ukraine, or Russia, do with a Chapter II law? The Privatization programs were being instituted, but there were one-industry towns. A Chap- ter 11 bankrupcy would wipe out the town. \TI1ese were the people who tile process left be- hind forever.\ The depths of de- spair were felt there. \We are witltout hope,.\ was tlte most revealing statement to the con- ditions. This is set against the backdrop of the Apex, where the root of democracy, inflation control, and budget deficit low- ering were improv- ing. TI1e Action plan for the con,.. tract detailed the specifics projects, the Work :Plan was the micro-component. \If the project was wiring for E-mail, who was doing it? What kinds of computer? What private firms were doing it? Did you get the three bids for contracts that are required by law? Who is doing it? Why did you accept them? Why did you reject the other two?\ Then organized crime was written into task as a threat to privatization, and therefore tl1e mle of law there was a mad dash by interest groups. Congress earmarked money to help fight organized crime. Who would get that money? AID/State wanted money to go to the Rule of Law group to develop legal formulas, and with the President interested in Russia, lobbying groups rushed The Agency for International Development contracted The pace was blitz- ing, the drafts were never final. Cross in for $30 million Con- gress appro- priated. The Alcohol To- bacco Fire- out to Rule of currents were strik- Law, and they ing from everywhere. had to \move arms (ATF) of Treasury fast off the mark, start to deliver the goods,\ with Congress breath- ing down the bureaucracies back and the bureaucracy breathing on the contractors. Meanwhile Professor Sharlet in 1993 is in the middle of this, has obligations to Senior The- sis students so he is comrtmt- ing back and forth. Then in late said they would train the Russians in arson investigations. Professor Sharlet kept thinking about Waco. US Customs said they would train Russian custom agents. Justice wanted to train the prosecutors. Tite Internal Revenue Service wanted to get a piece of the pie, to train Rus- . sian tax police. Professor Sharlet will be speaking tonight at 7:30 in the Reamer Campus Center Auditorium on his experience and the Former Soviet Republics. Thl;':se organized crime groups were run by college graduates, people wh-o saw the opportunity to get allead in an economy that was in shambles. They were doing everything,. including crime and extortion, to rise about the overwhelming poverty. Mafia was a tenn that .. encompassed all crime groups, not like godfathers we have here\. AID got the 1noney at last. All these interest groups were acting to have a lead role in tl1is effort. The most impm:tant point here is that developing infrastructure is the best way to proceed. Without the infra- stntcture, incremental changes around the margins will be only incremental, and will not have the benefit that the benefactors hoped. Tite prospects are daunting, the challenges immense, but the apex will make it. The experts will keep working so long as there is a need. All experts have specialities, but for the rule of law and the road to de- mocracy the West must stick to priorities by keeping the:essen· tial programs intact. Interest groups must always be \htmed away with a smile~ without burning bridges.\ Progress is being made, but tltere is a lot of work to go. The United States, an advanced market economy, took centuries to de- velop its economy. Russia is re- viving its economy from near- death. Come to hear Professor Sharlet give a talk on this fas- cinating subject this Timrsday, February 15, at 7:30 in the Campus Center Auditorium. World' News· Question of the Week: Should the l~lection · calender f<w the Pn.·sident he sh(wter, · or sfwuld it he longer'! llocs · a.- President campaigning~ undermine his ability to conduct. foreign . pnliq: or is status quo . acceptable'! Send comments to Box 1928. Responses will he printed within two weeks. t

The Tra.de Deficit: A Slow and Steady Decrease by Akin Sawyyer Contributing Writer The fact that the trade defi~ cit is at a two-year low does notqecessarily mean all is well. The good news is that strong exports have led to this reduc- tion in the deficit. The fact that the domestic economy is slow- ing down is the other contrib- uting factor. A slowing economy is bad news. . The United States trade deficit is currently at $7.06 bil~ lion. In November the trade gap fell by 13.5 per- cent. It was the fifth conm secutive month of improve- ment. The Commerce d·epartment reported that the economy is still being fueled by a two year growth in exports. Our trade woes with Japan are also gradually improving. The Commerce department voiced particular concerns aboutour slowing economy. The economy's slow down can be attributed to a fall in the growth rate of exports and a reduction in imports. Imports have fallen because consumers and busi- nesses have cut back on their purchase of a wide array of for- eign products. Most economists expect the trade deficit to continue on its downward path through 1996. This may pose serious problem for President Clinton. Repub- licans have constantly ques- tioned the Presidents trade poli- cies with Japan and the rest of the world. The Republicans propose a harder crackdown on our trad- ing part- n e r s . Patrick J. Buchanan, t h e President's harshest critic, won an upset victory in Louisiana. His victory was partly due to the populist appeal of his isolationist views on trade. Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representa- tive, said that the latest figures showed\ solid, steady progress \ in bringing down the trade deficit. Many economists said the nations economic growth T e I e i I e j ef~ f~e I ead o~f of Introducing ThleFile from the IRS - a helpful new service that lets you file your federal income tax rehitn in just ten minutes with·a free coil from a Thuch·Thne~ phone day•or night And absolutely m)·fonris to mail. ·With TeleFile,just follow voice·prompted instructions· to key in your income infot-mation. All entries are verified and all maUl is done for you. TeleFile tells the amount of your refund. Or, if you owe, you can still take unUI April 15th to send your check. Tax filing docsh't get any easier than this. If you. arc single and filed Form 1040EZ'Iast year, you'll fmd TeleFile in[onnation in your tax booklet. Use ill ~~ I;iepartment of the Treasury ~~IJI Internal Revenue Servloo Cll(znging for good. iliTeleFile It's free. It's fast. It works. would play a bigger role than trade results in this years elec- November 1995 Balance ........ -$ 7.06 Imports .•... .... 74.41 Exports ...... ... 67.36 was $ 6.5 billion. The Defi- cits with key nations like Ja- pan and Canada also narrowed in Novem- ber. These improve- ments, although striking do not tell the whole story. The big picture shows that our overall trade deficit for 1995 would total about $ 112 billion, up from $ 106.2 billion in 1994. Exports in- creased by nine- tenths of 1 percent in November, while im- ports fell by seven- tenths of one percent. Indeed, the fall in im- ports accounted for nearly all the improvement in the trade balance. The Federal Reserve reported a smaller than ex- pected growth in consumer debt. This prompted econo- mists to believethat the reduc- tion in demand for foreign goods was a reflection of the small growth in household li- abilities. Although a further decline in imports would signal a weakening in the economy, it will also reduce the trade defi- cit. Most economists believe that imports will drop enough in 1 996 to cut the trade deficit to about $ 80 billion. In the long run these reductions in the trade deficit will be good for America. It will mean that the nation will incur less debt, and moreover less tax payer money will be needed to service our debts. tion. President Clinton's big- gest challenge will come from Republicans like Steve Forbes, who are focused on economic growth, rather than the tum- your-back-on-the-world wing of the party led by Pat Buchanan. A recent survey showed that transport execu- tives expected the\growth in exports to slow significantly this year. The transport execu- tives blame the anticipated slow down on the sluggish economies of America's trad- ing partners. Why I did Union's 5-Year BA/BS MBA program The Commerce department report showed that the overall trade deficit was at its lowest monthly total in November since March of 1994 when it \I believe tltat tile excellent reputation of Union's MBA rogram coupled witll a very effective interns/lip program, enabled me to secure a position wit/1 Coopers & Lybrand a full year before graduation. \ Starra Cahan Sherrin, BS Math, 199-1, MBA 1995 Interested? Find out more about Union's 5-year BA/BS MBA programs. Come to an information session on: Date: Wednesday, March 6 Time: 3:30- 4:30 Location: Humanities 116 or call Carolyn Micklas at 6239 f'? J a~ .. Call fhe ~ a '\d ha'\j up real fa'?f .. Introducing TcleFile from the IRS - a helpful new service that lets you file your fpderal mcorne tax returnjnjust ten minutes with a free call from a Touch Tonen~ phonP day or night. And absolute!} no forms to mail. With 1€-leFile,just folio\ vmce prumptr-d m~tmcllons toke) m )'Our income inforniatioli. All entries aie verified and all math IS done for you. TelcFil[' tells the amount of your refund. Or, if you owe,, you can still take unttl April V5th to send your check. Ta.x filing doesn't get any easier than this. lf yon are smgle and filf'd Fonn 1040EZ.la.st yenr, you'll find TeleFile information in your tax booklet. Use it! r of&\ Department of the Treasury fdl!)Jl Internal Revenue Service Changing for goo<!. l!iTeleFile It's free. It's fast. It works.

OP/ED · Februa.ryl5, 1996 _.; Page 8 . . . . EDITORIAL. . ' What's in a Y? Last week we received a letter to the editor concerning the use of the word \bytch\ in the cartoon. The point of the cartoon was not to insult women, but rather to point out how ridiculous it is to change a single letter and hope to alter the meaning of a word. So for all you womyn out there, this editorial is dedicated to you and your folly. Aside frotn being pointless, the womyn's effort is also misdirected. We asked Prof. Scullion, Concordy'.\' resident etymology buff, to give us some background; he writes: \The second component of the word women derives from the Germanic word· that survives in Modern German Mensch and means simply \human being.\ Thus Bertolt Brecht's play Der gute Mensch von Sezuan is about a w01nan, and is translated into English as The Good Woman (~fSetzuan. English is descended from the Germanic family of languages, and originally our word man had the same meaning. Thus in Old English two different prefixes were compounded with -man to produce a linguistic distinction between males and females. Wep(ne)man indicated a.human being with a weapon, i.e. a penis-this horrible metaphor is, alas, as old as human language. W(finan indicated a female human being, w{f as a general term for \female\ surviving in such Modern English words· as.fishwife and alew(fe. Old Eng. ·bad a further word, were, cognate with Latin vir (cf virile), to specify a male; it survives in werewo(f Latin homo, like Mensch, was the general term, from which are derived human and its congeners. (Histmy, incidentally, .is Greek, and by origin has nothing to do with his or stmy.) The sound shifts that all languages undergo over time produced the pronunciation that we represent with the spelling woman/women; one should always bear in mind that spellings are just pictures of sounds-the sounds are the true substance of the word (Precept students take heart). It is interesting to note .that the plural is attested in the spelling wymmen. Once the pronunciation woman was estab- lished, witticisms of the sort \man's woe\ followed, ideology turninglinguistic accident to its purposes. Of course the man component has in Modern English become specialized in the sense \male\, but in etymological terms it is perhaps the first syllable of the word women which shol!ld cause offense. The second . syllable actually points us back to a distant past when English bad a \gender- neutral\ term for a human being. Social conditions at the time were of course unaffected by this relative terminological enlightenment, but that diction plays a fundamental role in constituting and perpetuating ideology no one familiar with its history can possibly doubt.\ So, if that explanation does not drive home our point about the farcical nature of the Woman-Womyn quibble, we. do not know what would. Prof.' Scullion simply provided information and does not necessar- ily endorse or support the opinion presented here; in fact, he sug- gests that .fiuther debate on this issue might he salutary. The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper .m;.:m~•-·~~ Anthony C. LaVecchia, Evan L. Morris EDITORS-IN-CHIFF Michelle Ellis N'EWS EDITOR ~arryPaska ARTS EDITOR Scott Steadman LAYOUT EDITOR Adam Richman LAYOUT EDITOR EMERITUS Rick Lederer Laurel Ruma PHOTO EDITORS Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Eric Svenson Jonathan Fader SPORTS EDITORS Matthew Sandler WORLD NEWS EDITOR . Peter Sorensen FEATURES EDITOR David Pinkowitz, Lisa Lemoi EXECUTIVE EDITOR DavidEder Chris Richards. LIVING EDITORS Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Tatiana Cogevina COMPUTER MANAGER Barry Eisenberg ASSIST ANT COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Richman CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Raquel Millman OPINIONS EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurie Kirschner, Shaun-Paul Manore. STAFF: Pete Farnum, Omar Al-Khalidi, Pavan Atluri, Emily Battis, Jeff Druzba, Jon Gasthalter, Nalini Gupta, Mike Leding, Adrian MacLean, Con or McKenzie Martin Metz, Bhavani Meduri, Jenn Pelose, Aaron Si.cotte, Aileen Quigly, Kathy Walters, Brandon D. Dec let Ro&ER, 1ou·u. 8£ 1../trT vc~ ~- Qfl;a;c.\' \t.) ~~T OF \\r\\e S\TUI'Et-\..S. \ :J: 'ri\ At 11\0ST\ bON f:i fA-A<. TIC II'!& belt~ ... Wft\l'f 'l\tE\ S'NbE~TS ,.0 \<:~~~,.r 02, Pr'l.OU.\t 'fo\lQ ~E\m>S. - . \=<lR l? AM F\RSt A~ .fiOO(.ATO~ ••• -· · · · . - OP-ED Six Degrees: Behind the Scenes Raquel Millman Opinions Editor Eighte€¥1 young people go every night to;the same place :·· for four hours at a time. They recite w_hat has already been recited by many in the past. They wear funny outfits. They take on a new identity. They· · do this over and over until they' have it just right. Som~ pi;iopl~ do not under- stand this obs~ssion. It seems childish to \play pretend\ as art' adult. What they do not un- derstand is that in this warped and twisted reality in which we all live, there are very few es- capes. The e$cape, of which I am now speaking , is theatre. · Only itsparticipants could pos- sibly comprehend the rush of stepping on a stage and into a new persona. Everyday life is · somehow put aside. The trans- formation begins and, until the curtain goes down, the prob- lems plaguing your thoughts disappear. You stand on a stage where so many have al- ready stood. You feel the shadows of a Joan of Ark, a College students are not. at- Romeo, the Jets of \West Side ways looked upon · as respon- Story\ arta the Pink Ladies· of · sible·young adults. Often, they !tGrease:\ While the stage may , :are. :l.'eferred :td as Jrrespon~ible. appear to be empty_ from the · party animal~ liviag off of their audience, while standing upon . parents: .This show has been it, the presence of so many is brought to life solely by the stu~ felt. dent body at Union College. ; Being part of such an experi- There has been minimal faculty ence means so many things to involvement. Basically, this is so many people. For some it is our show . .Fred Ulrich rounded a form of expression, ·for:sa.me. up the best bft~e~besdmd said, it is therapeutic, and yet for \I've always loved this show, some it is simple recreation. No and I want to share: .it with ev- matter what the reason is, a eryone else.\ And he succeeded. bond is ·built between the cast It opensrton~ght, February 15 at and crew. Relationships come · 8:00, and will 11uri until Sunday, about that seem so unlikely out- February 18. side the theatre. What outsid- Now is the- chance to see ers fail to realize is that it is a what your fellow students are different world inside that build- really made of. Now is the time in g. Having. shared in this experi- ence for the upcoming perfor- mance of n Six Degrees of Sepa- ration!! with so many talented students, I know first hand what this new world is all about. It's a s-upport system. We coach each other. What is so special about this performance is that it proves the power we have. to see sorneone's dream come true. All ittakes is a little initia- tive and a lot of dev.0tion. So to the cast and crew of \Six De- grees/'. break a leg. And tp ev- eryone else, get there a little early and stand on the stage. You never know what shadows will be lurking thererthat night. \ P: I I De ve to th UI m( wl to be co I ' th; fn tn 0 tr~ an tir co eq co th; I l gr tir de ar1 ca re wi lo re F1 1o T< 0 co to da or bt lit WI ar Stl er P1 pl

: I Jf'1 \ .. ~ .f· r;\- Page 9 · ,February 15~ . 1996 · ij];q~ C!Io:ttcl}rbien~is Advantages of . Semester System Dear Edttor, allow for tb.eneeded time. Classes in a semester system are In Ugh! of the debate over trimester based on a 50 minute class, which is versus semester systems, I would like to relate some personal experiences to the students and faculty of UnionCollege. My experiences. with tri- mester and semester systems occurred when I transferred. from Union College to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. I originally attended Union College because I was intrigued by the ideathat courses were a very concise 10 weeks. I was told that the curriculum equaled that of a semester school, but was very frustrated when I transferred. My freshman year 1 took Calculus 10, 12, and 14. These courses transferred as two courses, Calculus I and II, at RPI, I thereby lost credits, time, and money. This reveals that the courses are not of equivalent content, most semester courses are able to cover more material than a trimester course. Consequently, I have to attend an extra semester to graduate. The trimester does not allow enough time for students to grasp concepts they don't understand. The short breaks that are incorporated in the semester system's calendar allows for the needed time to review problems and course content with professors. The vacation also al~ lows students to catch up on work and relax. Students need to cle.ar their minds. Furthermore, the winter break is too long and the spring break is too short to equal to one credit hour. A three credit class could :meet three times a week for a 50 minute session each time. If it were any longer, then the faculty would loose the attention' of the students. I have found that these shorter classes, even 15 minutes,. allow me to concentrate on course mateiiaJ more effectively. Finally, I miss the liberal arts educa- tion that I was able to take advantage of at Union College. I know a lot of people who would like to take a variety of lib- eral arts courses, however, there are not many courses to choose from at RPI. For instance, RPI does not offer many classics. courses. These students would like to cross register with schools that offer these classes. However, Union College has to have a calendar that is compa- rable to that ofRPHo take advantage of these students. I expect tbat my experiences in trans- ferring are not uncommon to that of others. I feel1hat Union College has a lot more to offer to the students if they were on a semester system. Please con- sider the issues of being able to cover more material, .allowing for breaks dur- ing the tenn, having shorter classes, and having ~consortium between the col- leges When making your decision .. Sincerely, Keith Appelba~m News Article Praised To the Editor: Brandon Declet's article on the College's master plan, \Union College of the 21st Century;' in last week's Concordiensis, was very helpful in infonning the CoiJege community of various alternatives currently under review. However, I would like to clarify two possible misconceptions which appeared in the article. First, the Colteg~ has only recently submitted a grant proposal to the Olin Foun- dation for funding of a new academic-classroom building. Since our proposal is only now being reviewed by the foundation, it is prelllature to conclude that the building will \begin construction near the Idol following the completion of the new library.\ Construction will proceed only if funding is received. Second, while the Bailey Field bleachers are in need of upgrading because of the wear and tear of time and tbe elements, this improvement will not be carried out in anticipation of Union's joining \the Patriot League.\ No relation should be con- strued between these two proposed actions. At some time in the future the bleach- ers will be upgraded. There is no decision pending on the College's joining the Patriot League. Thank you again for helping to publicize the development of the campus master plan. Sincerely, Joseph L. Mammola Vice President for Campus Life If you build it . .. Ed. Dining Services Praised To the Editor, It seems as though in every issue of the concordiensis, at least one stab is made at Dinin~ Services .. I really can't stand it any more. People need to take a step back an.d re.ahze w~~t smcere efforts have been made towards improving nearly every- thmg m the dmmg halls and other food service areas: We have a deli bar that has just ha~ the addition ?f Kosher meats, an enormous salad bar, a grill, a pasta bar, ;egetanan hot selectiOns, meat .and fish selections, delicious fresh breads, great Ice cream and yogurt flavors even in the winter, a scrumptious dessert bar and lots of cereals! The employees are patient and polite, the carpet in Upper-class is clean, the tables are almost all fixed now ... The dining halls have been enlarged and rearranged to create less chaos at busy meal times. The suggestion/complaint cards are taken seriously (when appropriate) and are at least considered if not acted upon .. Dining Services has even taken recipes from our homes and brought them to Union. Now, is that not an attempt to make us feel at home or what , Last week the trustees of Union College were on campus .. Steve Pea;se felt that the students should have an opportunity to meet with them and share concerns suggestions etc ... So Steve arranged for that to happen. Approximately 104 stu~ dents ate lunch with the trustees in Upper-class and in West dining halls on Friday afternoon. What a great time! Let's talk about Extended Hours: 1. Rath Skellar is now open early mornings to spare us the dreaded trek across campus to the College Center. 2. Rath Skellar is also \happening\ late nights on the week-ends. Post-hockey games and pre-party hours can replace the \let's wash the dishes and clean the r?om': period from 9 until la.m. I was there last Saturday night eating popcorn, hstenmg to tunes, and chatting with my friends. It was an absolute blast and the atmosphere I have been craving for a while. So get there. 3. Upper-class has been open these past two weeks for late night studying until 2 a.m. for mid-terms. It's quiet. There ate BIG tables so you can spread your work out, all over the place. Take advantage of this time and space. I am s~e that I am leaving out dozens of other improvements and I apologize. There are JUSt too many and I can't remember them all. I just wanted to say thanks to everyone in Dining Services. You're sincerely appreciated. Ruthie Strosberg A Sceptical View Of the Cold War Dear Editor: In c~rrent mythology. the Cold War was a titanic struggle of good ver- sus evil, of democracy and freedom against godless communism. Reality is quite different. How can the United States support of brutal ri~ht-wing dictators like Somoza, the Shah, Mobutu, Marcos, Trujillo, Pmochet, Suharto and others he equated with democracy and freedom? How can the massacre of over one-half million members of the Indonesian Communist Party and their families (men, women, and children) be called anything but one of the great human rights violations of the twentieth century?. The same is true of the slaughters in Guatemala, Angola, Mozambique and East Timor. . I have a di~ferent theory. The Cold War was a struggle of the corpora- tiOns to retam control of the cheap labor and natural resources of the world and to prevent socialism from succeeding anywhere because it is a threat to their tremendous wealth and power. Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the passage of NAFTA and GATT, these corporations are more powerful than ever. How were the American people so easily deceived? Simple- the corpo- rations own the tnedia and can promulgate the fairy tales of the ruling elite twenty-four hours a day, if necessary. The greatest propaganda achieve- ment of human history was convincing the American people that believers in a utopian ideology like communism were evil devils. What did the Cold War accomplish? It bankrupted the Soviet Union and put this country four trillion dollars in debt. This folly occurred while millions of people starved to death, and the environment was polluted and destroyed. --- An objective observer from another planet would have to conclude that there is no intelligent life on earth. Beam me up, Scotty! Sincerely, Gary Sudborough 13824 Fidler Ave. Bellflower, CA 90706

To the }3ditot, Dear Sirs, Yes, I am a,path~tic.,. to apathetic to even defend'\myself against your .~;or\ rect, albeit poorly written, allegations. You were however sl,Icces~ful ill getting me to 1 )read this miserable excus~Jor a · oumal of news/information, and 2) ge~­ ting me to write ycn1 because what I read so infuriated me. Your trea.tlnent ofth:e submission of Dong Schnie,der was de- plorable. Your own articles contai~1nu ... nerous errors in spelling and gralllmar, yet you choose to .point out ail tlie errors in Mr. Schnieder's Sllbmissipn ... ThiswHs '\ ·.: : ~·-·. : ·'·':· ... , .. ; . cowat4lY .. an5}. inexpusable.· ~iJe'~ ... . S~bn{'eder ~as coil:eofin~i.s ~oll;ipl~t~ . about. your. pr~vtQ~s es~<JY,. Y<>R.~bpo.se to, ignore the subst&nce, .£>.f]~$,'s:~say, ; You mac!e a conscious d~ci~i9ll~9 :PQin:t., out. the £r<m,ltl1¢.Cal ~l!:9Ij ~4.P~~ ~l·. sophC>moric cQmmel;ltabo(lt bQ\Vel nio~e~ ... m~nts. I hate to tell you thi~, \lutifis ' times like this that show wllaf a trtdy .· d'i§m<:tl state Qf ~airs tl!e 'Cbncordy is , in. G(lod lu¢k to you. in tihe future and I : '· ltope.this .!;ituati(m improves, · ·· · Sincerly, E. w. Abbott~m . . .• . .· ·····.. ·.· . ·.· : : ...... · ... ·. ·. EdttDr.s Respo~od: .·. There are two Jamou.f IJttotarions those who critit:izpd ottrt~@ment oJMr .. ; Schneider's lellei' should/'f~t!'i:iil(ipjzli 1hetii;~¢}\!~:wi{6;.i)f'1:1tvs<{ ff;h~ '\l)!.fi}iythe sword die by the ;i;word \2)'~(/)1~11 c:tin!ttake·tfieh*tl.t:g¢/IJilif.?f:ift!!ikitchtftj~': ': Had Mr. Schneider chosen to. write a ctJ!ilp/tttely seriiJusletter to the lrditar•Jhitt lacked m!Ji personal attacks on :tlw editatal b&ard-tllemktfts. ·tflaiJ :h~f; r¢~~~/jse· would certainly haw!· been<lnapprepfiate. As ·iftums·cmt>howevri1'1tilr: · Stfhnidi!lerrjh':: Ieifer to the editor was tnsultit1g atidpersonatly tJftemive; The lert.er be,g:qn' :w}lhtltiL juvenile .~·alutatian \1'oBir Edilot;. 'l'he Almighty • .:'' Mr,Sch#eid~rthen.W:~nt()lf,<iii:hf;. letter to accuse the editorial board qfhm;tng WYIIer·~~· blocliand tb· be/itt1epre1~iorlS' editorial\·. Th<1se who poke fun af u.v (if the liOflt <!.fimplit:atioJidp Mr; Sc/weider :~ letter can be deemed ':fun\) (tafl ·~ptU:( tv have ;{lmpakedbackat lflNii (at'ldsurely what we did do.estt't go heyond.fttll .. paking, hoW&J•t.rr \sophrtinofio')~. We here at ihiF Concordien.~·is do not have ':f11agile egos 1 \norare we itMecure abvutthe lev?! ofihe product that we produce weekJy.· , . . .· . . .. . . . . . .. ..· . The fact qf the matter is tlwt Mr. Schneider hmuJed itutietter t<ilhe erliiiJr ihdl was not (m/y petwonally ctiliqal Q.{ the .•llqJfr. h'!J.t (htAt he J-Jlyo }!adf, o/Jvitrtt#f not bothered M spell check or eved l6.t,k::ov¢f; R:ptflw· thittr'ha)>c 'thlf:.r6:1~(J~as$ti~~tt{i.'!ft not w;ing English'correi:lly rtifleatpoiJrljbn:the i1¢wsp(Jper'hp!tlitpfliti11gin i<str;;;.· 1 ~: we cho.ve to have Mr. Schneir/er 14ktrthe fiifllpt>~ihfliiyJqrki.~ oW.tl :Ctire/e;~sne.ss. -,' . We, the editorifl boar~ are_all ~J;.vtt!teli.anilat thl! ;~anu/ til11e s~m~what .mtpfised- at the fact that Mr. Schne1tler rmplted m hts letter that he wasdomg us all a \favot ' 1 by submilling and (Prais-e God!!) typing ih nfsietf:er. Fi1wlqfa1l>Mr. :Schnttil!er~ came to an editor wilh a complaint about ouredimrial, We welcolltepo,fitiW! ctifi ... cism, so we encouraged Mr. Schneider to put his opinion in writing .~o that the • entire campus could benefit from it. He did no.a1re a .favor by typing in hi.~ article,• but rather simply complied with the Concordiensis 's policy qf recefl;ing all stibm/s .. · sionr on disk. {fno one cr;m take ajoke anymore then perhaps bJJ will beforcedtiever tv make a humorous (.-;ome would say sophomoric) tYmuuent. The comment ll-¥1S not meant as • apersonal insult to Mr. Schneider, mr were the ,'}>-ics. If they were perceived that way by Mr. Schneider, or anyom el.~e for that maller, then please accept our sincere apology. On the other hand, you may also want to con.vider takin.g y.ounlell1es a. little less serUJusly~ED. Planet C Revisited: Dear Mr. McKenzie: I have just read your planet C article concerning Union's curling facilities and you're l00%correct. Dr. Achilles stipulated that a curling rink be included with the hockey rink, new used as a storage room. As a member ofthe Alumni Council, I have argued with the current president about the use of the rink I have been curling at the Schenectady and Albany curling clubs for the last 3'0 years and know it to be a wonderful sport for men and women of aU ages. Curling. is unquestionably the fastest growing collegiate sport, with the Midwestern colleges and universities leading the way, I am sure that skilled members of the Schenectady club will be glad to help you get started. .Williams and Brown travel to the Albany Curling Club to practice and compete. Williams will' be here later this month. I think you should be aware that negotiations are underway to sell the 64 curling stones at Union, without which you could not play. Yours sincerely, WayneM. Davis'49 Who's Ap.athetic? Dear Editors, Union students are apathetic. Fur- thermore, they have no intellect and no motivation. This is basically what the writers of the Concordiensis have ex- pressed over the last few weeks. I would first like to know what defines apathy, unintellectual, unmotivated. If your definition compares Union students with students from Harvard or Cornell I think you should realize that apathy and intellect are not defined by how many hours you study, how highyour S.A.T. scores were, or how often you submit articles and opinions in the college news- paper. I would also like to know which students tllese writers are referring to. I'm sure, however. not one of these writ- ers can answer this question, because tl1ey are making judgments and gener- alizations on what they see and not what is true. I suggest that they open their eyes and look at the entire picture, not just negative bits and pieces. I refute the opinion that the majority of Union students are apathetic, lacking intellect and unmotivated. Where is this majority? Programs such as We Care About U Schenectady ru1d Big Broth- ers, Big Sisters don't seem to cater to apathy. Sports such as crew, soccer, hockey and swimming aren't lacking any team players. Classical music concerts and choir concerts in Memorial Chapel are always well attended. Independent houses sponsor Halloween activities and professor dinners every year, yet the people who plan and run these activities are apathetic and unmoti\ vated? And don't forget all the intel\ lectual clubs on campus such as the French club which sponsors a trip to Montreal every year or the Economics club which, get ready for this, actually has meetings and talks about issues relating tQ Economics! How do we clas- sify all the students who listen to the speakers which Union brings here? The students who asked Donna Shalala questions were far from igno- rant and tmmotivated. The truth is that the majority of students at Union are not apathetic, lacking ambition or lack- ing intellect. Moreover, the majority ofUnion stu- dents contribute positively to campus life, something which recently our newspaper fails to do. I ~uggest that those people who contend that Union students are apathetic look around and find some concrete evidence before you generalize because not only are you speculating, but you are adding yourselves to the ignorant minority. And if you find that the majority is indeed everything you say it is, then I recommend that you try to positively and actively change what you see as the problems with this campus rather than simply tell Union stud.ents that we are apathetic. Stacy Tamburrino To all you cartoon junkies, Last week the Concordiensis received a letter denouncing the previous week's editorial cartoon. I was so excited to learn that my work annoyed someone enough to warrant my vety own angry letter (that is, tmtil I read the letter). While I applaud (well ... more like golf-clap) the boldness ofMr. Sawyerr for speaking out, I can't help but laugh at l1is misinterpretation of my little drawing. All week long I received similar verbal comments from several women (did I spell that correctly?) of the student body, and again, I laughed. Perhaps \women [have] been disrespected in society enough\ but Mr. Sawyerr has proven to me that he deserves a little disrespect of his own. Sorry to leave you out, sparky ... won't happen again. And ladies, \women for those of you who are without grammar skills, feel free to make Mr. Sawyerr an honorary ''mymber.\ Lots of Love, Jared S. Richman'97 Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to tlte Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns, or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or al'tists, and not necessarily the opinions ofthe Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board.

The Screening Room h.J' Lawrence Paslw, Arts Editor White Squall.· Jeff Bridges Sets Sail with the Boys \White Squall. \ Starrtng.Je.ff Bridges, Caroline Goodall, John Savage, Scott Wolf,. Balthazar Getty. Directed by Ridley Scott. Rated PG .. J3, liollywood Pictures. Rating: **(outoffour) Stwradically-talented director Scott retutns to the screen. in a misguided attempt to take the helm of a boys' coming-of-age story that is far less impressive that the previews would lead you to believe. While the trailers de- picted a raging stonn and Bridges on trial for the death of his crew (more than resembling the pre1nise of A Few GoodMen in structure), the actual film is a lengthy melo- drama played out on the small school ship at sea, called Alba- tross. You know you're in for it when the previews show every- thing that happens in the last half- hour of a film, and nothing from before. Based on a true story, the set- ting is 1960 and thirteen students are admitted to the Ocean Acad~ emy, a floating prep school whose skipper is Christopher Sheldon (Bridges), a tough and unemo- tional captain. Narrated by Wolf (of Fox-TV's highly-underrated Party~fFive), the story develops as the boys meet each other and learn the rules of the sea, although Scott never truly fleshes out these characters' emotions and, ~xcept for Wolf and Getty (as a crew mettibe.r whose previous sailing experience lands him at the ship's helm), the crew seems rather in- significant. For an hour and a h&lf, tbe ship meanders through the ocean, taking a few stops here and there for SOUle obligatory (and un- necessary) side. plots. The crew stops on an island for a few nights to .host some Dutch girls of the same .age. Anyone with an lQ above 9 can figure out what hap- pens tohalfthecrew. Afew\dan- gers\ are tackled by the crew be- fore the big storm, such as a lighter bout with lighting and the facing of adolescent issues-(such as \let- ting go\}forthe first time. . Thankfully, just as the viewer is about to take a snooze on the poop deck, the squallhits, and for fifteen minutes, the crew must think fast and react under pres- sures they've never faced before to save themselves. TI1e film's best scene involves the \white squall\- something one would expect, seeing how this is the film's title. But as far as the over- all content is concerned, White Squall has the wrong focus. Jn., stead of probing into the relation- ship between the Skipper and his wife on board(Goddall,whoisut- terly wasted), or the Skipper's tem- perament with his teachers (Sav- age, as an English teacher, is a delight but kept below decks), Scott is instead more interested in the lives of these boys, all of whom are, frankly, not very en- grossing to watch. Except for Wolf, they are not good actors and are given few strong fines to de- liver. In the end, they are reduced to whimpering over breaking free frotn parents and coming to grips with fears. Yawn! With many scenes shot in the Caribbean, director of photogra- phy Hugh Johnson captures the brilliant colors of a colorfhl region, where many films are not shot. While the camera loves to show- off sunrises, there is a lot to see, and the film's widescreen format makes the most of the ship at sea. Sadly, this effect will be lost on home. video. When the film finally reaches what appeared to be its climax, the courtroom scene moves at a brisk pace, and things seem to be over before they've begun. Scott, who created such fantastic films as Alien and Blade Runner, is watch- ing his career ship sink fast: be- tween this and 1492: Conquest qf Paradise, he needs to keep off the oceatt•going vessels and head back into outer space. If White Squall maintained a storyline similar to A Few Good Men, it may have felt like it was a cheap knock-off, but it would have been a more tense and in- volving film. HAROLD LOHNER REC:ENT PRINTS ANI) l)RAWINGS SILENT HEROES JANUARY29- MARCH I, 1996 UNION COLLEGE ARTS ATRIUM OPEN DAILY 9AM-6PM Harold Lohner, untitled, 1995 Arts· & Entertainment lOC~lL @JIT\\J J C~lfLIMllD@.JIR< This Week TONIGIIT! \This is the Moment\ to experience all ofthe passion, suspense, danger and romance of the new-musical thriller Jekyll.& Hyde before it arrives on Broadway. TI1is stunning theatrical experience closes at Proctor's tonight, with a final performance at 8 PM. Tick- ets range from $29.50 to $39.50 and are available at Proctor's Box Office (346-6204) and at all TicketMaster locations. FRIDAY,FEBRUARY 16 Proctor's Theatre will once again be transformed to \Bourbon Street\ and the feeling of New Orleans when the annual Mardi Gras Festival returns. The celebration features all the spice and · sounds of the \Big Easy,\ and starts with authentic Cajun and Creole cuisine on sale in the arcade at 5:30PM. 1l1e music begins in the theater at 8 PM. TI1is year's outstanding triple bill includes red~hot accordionist Terrance Simien, the sizzling party music of Buckwheat Zydeco, and world-renowned live performers the Dirty Dozen. Tickets for the Festival are $20.50 (general admission) and are on · sale now at Proctor's Box Office (346-6204) and at all TicketMaster locations. Food tickets will be sold starting at 5:30PM in Proctor's Atcade. SUNDAY,FEBRUARY 18 The Big Band Salute to Artie Shaw comes to Proctor's at 7 PM. The show features Julius La Rosa, Johnny Smith's Ink Spots, and clarinet virtuoso Abe Most conducting the big band and perform- ing Artie's greatest hits, and includes a special tribute to Artie Shaw's Gramercy Five. TI1e big band tribute shows have long been a favorite at Proctor's, bringing the best perfonners of the \swing\ era together to honor the greatest bandleaders of all time. Tickets are from $20.50 to $24.50 and are available atthe Proctor's Box Office (346~6204) and at all TicketMaster locations. ONGOING Fine examples of works from the print collections of six upstate museums dating from the 15th century tothe present are on display in the East and West Galleries (Main Hall) ofthe Albany Institute~~ History & Art. This exhibit contains works by many ofthe world's most renowned printmakers, includiugHenri Matisse, Pablo Picasso, Paul Cezanne, and many others. T11e exhibit rm1s until February 25. Also at the h1stitute (in the Rice Gallery) is an exhibit entitled Schooner America /851/1995. Photographer Joseph Schulyer and painter Dahl Taylor document the 1995 replication of the first America's Cup Schooner by Scarano Boat Builders in Albany. TI1is exhibit lasts until March 3. The Institute is located at 125 Washington Avenue in Downtown Albany. Call463-4478 for more information. Chairman English at Ho and author essay co\~~... collections, Lopate st & writer ry 22 pm he lounge ·+

Arts & Entertainment Dan Brennan, Greg Reiser, and Suzanne Dougherty. photo by Rick Lederer for The Concordiensis by Lawrence Paska, Shaheen Mahmud and Raquel Mintah After a hectic and grueling rehearsal schedule, the cast and crew of Six Degrees of Separation are ready to per- fonn, with the play's premiere tonight at 8 pm in the Yulman Theater. The play, scheduled to _run from tonight until Sunday at 8 PM and with a 2 PM Sunday matinee, will be performed in the smaller \Actor's Studio\ of the Yulman Theater, which seats 100-150 people. The show will be. \small and cozy,\ according to Alex Beckers, who portrays Trent, a character who teaches Paul (a poor black man) h.ow to act profession~ly i~ the rich ttpper-class atmosphere of New York's Riverstde. Paul spends time with a couple, Ouisa and Flan, posing as the son of entertainer Sidney Poirier. Beckers adds, \the ac- tors are close to the audience and enter frem the back comers and through the aisles between the audience.'' Beckers says ofhis role, \it was very challenging. Even though [Trent] is a side character, be is key to the story, because he teaches Paul [how to act] in the society.\ Ac- cording to Beckers, the rehearsal schedule has been de- manding, with five rehearsals a week. Of the play's director, Fred Ulrich, Beckers notes that, \Fred has been planning the show since at least last Win- ter or Spring. He has a vision and wants the show to come off the way he sees it. He believe~ that Union Colleg~ needs this show, because it is a conservative school.\ Among the social themes of the play whid1 will have an effect on the Union community are race, class division, and homosexuality. Amy Rilling, who plays Ouisa, the lead female character, states. \it is a great play which shows tbe separation we all face. It discusses why we can't live together.\ Ofher character, Rilling said, \she starts out as a rich, snotty woman but then begins to realize there is more to life that just that. She wants to find out who Paul is. She changes the most in the play and Paul helps her to see the 1ight.\ Like Beckers, Rilling feels that Union needs to see a show like this performed. To her, people may come away from the experience by taking a good look at tl1emselves. \Certain people might leave the show like, \oh that was a nice show.\ Other people might walk away saylng, like, \wow! It's not just a play. It's reallife.j' That's me. Because many people on this campus are really like the char- I , acter portray. The play is especially impressive because it was entirely student di- rected, produced, and run. While this caused some difficulties with bud- get constraints, the overall product is pleasing to both cast and crew. Technical director James Naumes said, \it looks like it's going to be a good show. The entire show is done on one set, and designing the set was easy but the lighting is harder. Try- ing to work around my class sched- ule wa$ the hardest part.\ To discuss the themes and reac~ tions to the play, the Peer Facilita- tors will be holding a workshop on February 19in the Yulman Theater. Cast O.ui·sa .................... ·~~·· ••..•.•.•••..••. ~~.Amy Rill-ing· . · Flan ......................... ~······················John Poor ·. Paul ......... ~ ... ·-~~··········u·····~~···············Carey Miller Kitty .............................. Suzanne Dougherty · Larkin .................................... ~~ ... D-an Bren!nan D·etective ....... \ ......... o ..... ···~· •••• C1 ••• R'i~k Led·e·rer Te.s-s .................................... \'Raq u:e·l Millma:n Ben ......... o••••····························••oGreg R.eis:er · D.r. Fine ............................... Doug Sch-n.eider Doorman ............................ Arya Chowdhury. T·re.nt •. ~······· .. ·• ........................ ~ .. Alex ·oec-ker.s Rick ...... ~~ ............. ~··········\\' ...... Pete Sore·n·se~n · Elizabeth ............................ Jessica Bernstein ~ Geoffreyo ....................... \ ..... Bill Acker·ba-uer Doug ........................................ Jo-bn Zan·dm-a~n W oodyu······ ............ o .......... Morga·n Ha.rgrov·e Hustler ...................................... u •• J-esse s~b·a.·rer. Corey Miller and Doug Schneider photo by Rick Lederer for The Concordiensis Crew Prod-ucer ..•....•...••...••.. ~···············Kate Golman Assistant Producer •. , .. oo ........ Stephanie Kuehn Director ......................................... Fred Ulri·ch Technical Director ................... James Naumes Assitant Technical Director .•..... Aaron Pincus Stage Manager ............................ Sara Friedman Assistant Stage Manager ............ Pete St. John Costn-mes ... n••···· .... .,.~eo·•····· ... .,. Emily Schwartz Assistant Costumes ................ Lauren Brecher Props Mistress ........................ Micbelle Jester Assitant Props ......................... JoEIIen Cowger Sou·nd Desigo .................... e .......... Brian Jaecker Publicity._ .............................. Lauren Mouzakes Below: Ang.> Rilling, Raquel Millman, and John Poor. photo by Rick Lederer for The Concordiensis Jessica Berstein and Pete Sorensen. photo by Rick Lederer for The Concordiensi..v Six Degrees of Separation: The Film by Lawrence Paska Arts Editor Afteryou've seen the play by Mountebanks,. check out the fihn version of the story~ starring Stockard Channing as Ouisa, Donald Sutherland as Flan and Will Smith as Paul. The film does not feel staged, and the acting is quite impressive. Channing and Sutherland give cred- ible performances as the Riverside couplewho learn a bit about life (and themselves) from the deceiving Paul. The film was criticized for Smith's rather poor portrayal of Paul: in interviews, Smith stated how he could not bring himself to kiss his gay friend, Trent, (played by Anthony ·Michael Hall), on screen, and the result shows on film. Smith wants to break free from his \Fresh Prince\ image, but to be a serious actor, he's gotto take chances. Under Fred Schepsi's direction, Six Degrees is a worthwhile film which conveys all of the important messages and themes of the play, while marking Channing,s return to the screen after a considerable absence from major parts. As for Smith, he holdshis own but cannot bring himself fully into the character, and ends up being much better in movies like Bad Boys, where his tough, street-smart attitude serves him justice. Rating: ***(out qffour) ,

What is .Going on in the Indian Ocean? by George Lombardo lfit was ·iiot for the mysterious and often baffling planet Earth, more than 2 5 ,.000 geologists would be out ofajobinthe Uitited States. The earth is a highly so• phisticated complex of rock which has undergone changes for 11early 4.6 billion years, which most ge- ologists believe is the age of the planet. The earth is a layered planet consisting of a thin outer crust, a large mantle, a molten outer core and a solid ~nner core composed mainly of iron and other heavy chetnical elements. The Earth's crust is composed of 12 major tectonic plates and sev- eral smaller ones. Through the interactions of these plates, earth- quakes are fanned, volcanoes are entpted, seas are enlarged or made smaller, and life on earth is changed. There existthree differ- ent plate beundaries: a divergent boundary consists of two plates moVing apart from one another (e .. g. the Mid-Atlantic Ridge), a convergent boundary, where two land masses crasl1 i11to one an- other (e.g. the Himalayan Moun- tains), and a transform boundary where two plates slide horizon- tally past each other (e.g. the San Andreas Fault in Califontia). Late in 1995, scientists discovered a new plate, a convergent aild di- vergent beundary happening at the same time in the Indian Ocean. Geophysicist James Cochran of the London-Doherty Earth Obser- vatory believes that India and Australia are moving in separate directions and the huge Indo- Australian plate that was once believed to have carried both In- dia and Australia has been slowly breakingapart for 7 .5 million years. The most likely cause of this breakage was stress caused by the collision ef the Indo-Austra• lian plate into Asia where it pushed up the Himalayas and the Tibetan Plateau. According to Dr. Cochran, the resistance against pushing became greater, and then stresses built up to a point that the plate could not support them, and began to buckle and break. The breakage point (after con- firming Cochran's results with geoscientists at Northwestern University') is located roughly 600 miles south ofthe tip oflndia. The At.lstralian plate is moving coun- terclockwise at that point, push- ing into the Indian plate to the east and separating from the west. Evi- dence of this notion was: sup• ported by geophysical tech- mques. Myc and Fos: Cellular Telephones by Dennis Popeo Science and Medicine Editor Cells, like people~ talk to each other. They reSpOiid to cellular \voices\ by stimulating gene ex- pression or initiating changes in cellular behavior. These \voices\ that cells hear are not the sailie c kind that we use to get a person's attentien at the Reamer Campus Center in the afternoon rush. Cells listen to chemicals, includ- ing growth factors and hormones. Although many of the chemicals used td signal cells do not cross the cell's membrane, the message of these chemicals still must reach the nucleus (the cell's main sys- tems control center) in order to· initiate chai1ge. In order to bring the message of these chel'nicals to .the nucleus, an ·efficient mes- senger system has evolved be- tween the membrane and the nucleus. One signaling pathway that has been elncidated uses the protein Ras. Ras· is a small protein that is positioned near the cell membrane on the inside ofthe cell. When a chemical signal attaches to the cell surface, minor changes occur to the interior of the cell. These changes activate Ras. Ras then initiates a cascade of events that bring the message from the out- side to the nucleus of the cell, with- out the actual incorporation ofthe chemical messenger into the cell. Ras is a highly conserved mes- senger system that is seen throughout many different spe- cies ofvertebrate animals. One ofthe many jobs of Ras is to activate the expression of a gei1e which encodes the protein Fos. Fos then goes on to activate division in ~ells that were at rest. Recently~ scientists have fomid ano~her sigmd pathway that to- tally by passes both the Ras mes~ individu~l, other proteins are es- senger system and the Fos stimu- se.lltial to this process. It seems Jatar. This new-found pathway . tltat the genes that produce both usestheproteinSrc,which,when Fos and Myc are proto- activated by the same growth fac- oncogenes. In other words, if tor that usually activates Ras, Will fllese two ;ge11eS were to be ex- also go on to activate the expres'\ ~ress~d without 'limits, tumors ~~~ 11 P~!!~:·~~:~h~;~~~~:~!!~~·~~-~~~~i;~:!~t!!:la1!~1~~~~~ tein that is much like Fos; it can ·, ·CeJl;proliferation can overcome the ~a~q~~~~.bb~~-~~~~ cycle which leads to cell division. allow them to act. Also, if Fos Although both Fos and Myc alone is activated to perform its can activate cells to begin mito- job, cells will not divide. It seems sis, or cell division, they also can tl1at both Myc and Fos are essen- stimulate other cells to differenti- tial to the proliferation of cells. ate (become specialized to per- Scientists believe that both Fos fon~ a specific function),. or even and Myc must also have some- to die insteadofproliferate. Tite thing to do with the genes that,. expr~ssion of the genes that ert- ,encode proteins which begin the · code both of these proteins into process of DNA replication (a mRNA (the first step to makirtg a necessary step in cell division). protein from the blueprint en- ' Although these two proteins coded in a gene) is considered a · have similar jobs, there appear to primary, or immediate response, be separate signaling pathways since it requires no new protein that activate their formation. TI1e synthesis. Myc pathway is, for the most part, TI1ere are subtle differences in unknom1 to science. Research- . the proteins Fos and Myc. The ers have found, though, that Src process that makes proteins or two closely related proteins, seems to proceed more slowly in Yes or Fyn, ate involved in the the production ofMyc in cornpari- frrst steps of the cascade reaction son to the production of F os. that ends in the formation ofMyc. Also, Myc is present in the cell Tne Fos activation patllway has throughout t11e cycle of cell divi- been characterized by scientists sion, while Fos ispresent to stimu- who can trace its formation to ini- Iate the cell while the cell is \rest- tiation by Ras. ing,\ and is quickly dawn-regu- Bringing infonnation into .cells lated, or removed from the cell. from the outside; without direct There has been ample evidence incorporation of the chemical to lh1k the regulation of expres- messengers, is a necessary fea- sion of the gene that en codes ture of all cells. Cell division is an Myc with changes in the rate of exmnple ofahigltly controlledpro• protein formation, protein elonga:- cess that is Irtediated by these ex- tiOI1, and RNA processing (all vi· tracellular signals. Although the tal steps. in the production of a picture of this type of signaling is protein from a gene). 11ot complete, it is vital in our un- Although Fos and Myc are derstanding of processes such as very important to sending a cell cell division, cell differentiation, on its way to becoming a dividing and cancer. . . ' Pre-1\!led? Write Science and Medicine l(.>r lrl!c ([Lntcorl'r icnsis. Cull Iknn is at \6155 or I·Av1ail the Lditors and Concord) ·a gar. llnion. edu •

AN EXPLORATION OF LOVE Beyondthe corridors of time Are the principles oflife. Based on love and synergistic rhyme, Embrace them and make them your wife. by David Eder · Living Editor It is my wish to e~plore the concept oflove. Love is a term til.at is overused but rarely dem- onstrated. Love is often felt but rarely .shown. It is discussed but not understood. In order to completely understand or to par- ticipate in my exploration of love, a definition of love is needed. Love is not simply a feeling as many people believe it to be. Love is universal. R.ather than being an emotion, it is the basis of emotions. From love stem all of our lesser emo- tions; pride, jealosy, happiness, sadness. Love is not a feeling alone it is more of an action. A person tnay look at an animal at a zoo and say \I love birds.\ A.nother person may see a child and exclaim \I love kids.\ An- . Gther may see a person who is beautiful and state \I love her or him.\ These people are mis- using the word love. They are feeling emotions that stem from love but are not love. They may be feeling compassion, envy, attraction, or any other of the wide range of emotions but they are not loving. Love is not a ,result of oneself or feelings that one has. Love is Self. Love is the Thinker of the thought. Love dictates emotions, it is not are- sult of them. Love is the cre- ator of altruism and of unself- ishness. When a person acts on love, that person attains a level of oneness with love. And as I pointed oat, love is the Self or Soul. So we see that when a person acts unselfishly or altru- istically he is not only loving but also being enlightened. A lover is a person who is at one with himself. He is a person who acts on impulses sent by the soul. This is the part that .seperates emotional people from Ioving people. Everyone has Love within them. It is not u r:iquenor is it love to \feel\ for p•.:ople. To say you love some- one is not love. When Self or Love is sublimated into an ac- tion we see true love. It is here that we see the mother caring for her baby. It is here that we see people giving of themselves to strangers. It is here that we see marriages last and bring hap- pi ness. Love is the giving entity in each of us. By giving love we become love. By giving love we are loved. By \feeling love\ and not acting on it's impulses we \fall in love.\ We fall in love or better .stated we \fail in love.\ We fail to follow our true selfs directions and wefall fromour- selves and from others. If we all have Love within us and acting on it brings a one~ ness with ourselves and others, why doesn't everyone act on love consistently? That is a question that is difficult to an- swer. It is not enoough to be simply be aware of this truth. I know it is not enough because I am aware of it yet I continue to lower my self by not acting on love. People do not act on love because they have forgot- ten that acting out of love is what brings happiness. People are searching for external de- vices to increase happiness . Sayings like \You have to nuture yourself.\ Completely leave out the directions on do- ing so. It is just another of the countless ironies in life, selfless action increases self-happiness. The immediate temptation is to seek happiness through selfish measures. While true happi- ness Will only come through the attainment of a selfless Self. Om Soul or Self is made of Love. Love is the root of all of our emotions but true love comes from the fulfillment of loving acts. By acting in Love rather than falling in love we reach the goal oflove. The goal of love being a \oneness\ with ourselves and those we love. So it follows that to \love thy neighbor\ means do things for people. In this way we can grow through acts of love until this Love becomes \all embrac- ing and universal.\ But what about that special individual love for a spouse. Does that exist? If we can love everyone, then doesn't that take away from the specialness of a husband or wife? Is there such a thing as romantic love? These questions. did bother me and I found it difficult to an- swer with any assurance so I went to an expert in the field of loving acts, my mother. I asked her if there is such a thing as the one special person. She assured me that there is. That is good enough for me. Are You Hardcore? Does your North Face you to class? Do you 'hang out' wardrobe and feel a deep need to put it to use, your prayers are fina:llyanswered! There is, sur- prise surprise, a Union College Outing Club,. which runs trips just about ever weekend. Any- thing you can think of, we do (Ice climbing, hiking, snow shoeing, indoor climbing, x- country skiing, etc etc etc). No recognition, no glory ... just ex- perience. You decide. Meetings are held on Tuesdays @ 8:30 in the C.C. 3rd Floor Lounge. mountain-light, $325 jacket keep you warm & dry when you walk to the College Center for a quick greasy piece .of pizza. How about those trendy, gore-tex hiking boots, which are spe- cialized to carry in a Marmot down vest, which just happens to be manufactured for ascending K2 o.r Mt. Everest? How about the 'No Fear', or 'Just Do It~ logos you wear on your t- shirts? If you some- times look at your pathetically useless E coFfeehou.s.e aM goller~ * 0 . ' * \42. ~~ street &heo~ ?J\1·2.~ ii\AlbaJl~ o1 '21\ ~\(st. wi\\l ~ion 1-t>~ ] ] at nc ill rc hi i 11 it he nl Cl Cl Sl hc 01 Ill ql aJ dl St Sl 1~ lc n ti U] aJ d cl w N 111 ttl aJ

Dire ,Straits at West: Jehovah's Java by Conner McKenzie Felltures Sttiff Damn. do I hate the coftce at West. We're not ttilking mi- nor anJH:)yance here, we're talk- ing m~lior negative fixation. I rely on coffee, cofli.:c is my life blood. Coflce keeps me awake in class. it helps me pnss finals. it even keeps me from getting a head aches in the morning. I've also f(nmd that when I drink coffee hcf'orc my radio show (Thursdays Il-l). the show sounds octter. Then; is nothing better than a good cup of joe, with lots of cream; and a little sugar. It really has to be one of my fllVorite things ill the world, next to the magical 3 S-words: Sega. sex, skiing. Conversely, there is nothing worse thmi a had cup ofcoffec. I ,cave it to West dining to con- sistently produce the worst cof- fee I've ever had, day after day. I was thinking that it's possible they could make a small mistake from day to day. That is, ifthcy occasionally screwed up the yueky coffee and slipped in some fresh brew. lin fort u- natdy. these West people arc pretty consistent. I was won- dcring if they just don't know better, and it's not their fault. What if nobody ever taught them to make a cup of coffee? WelL over the years, I've learned to brew a pretty f~1irpot ofjava. So, ifit wouldti't be too C()ndcscendino of me I'd like to ' ' b , .sh<ire some tips with them: I . l Jsc fresh. clean water (spring water if possible), it re- ally makes a difkrence. I sus- pect that this might he an area of cnncern Hu them. Contrary to popular belief, motor oil doesn't make good coffee. For that matter, neither docs the Jell- A Sketch of 4 a.m. Dream-Land by Peter Sorensen Fe11ture~· Editor I am uncertain of my spatial orientation; I am uncertain of my location. Both simply re- quire far too much justification and cross-reference. I am in dream-land, and I can see my- self. I can sense myselt: I can smell the carpet that l have just landed on after dropping otT my loft. I can feel the thud resound through my chest, my body tingles, I twitch; abruptly I sit up and snap out of my dream. On the wall·near my head is an intense photo of a skiier dropping down a near-vert chute, bordered by walls of rock with icicles dripping down. Next to this is the cosmos and my littlest sister peering over a table-top through water glasses and a bottle of merlot. As ou may have guessed, I chose to light up a cigarette. Sitting comfortably, legs draped, swinging and smoke tails wisping, I stared out the window and across the road at the icc. But my thoughts re- mained in the pod, my room; in the comfort and warmth of dis- array. My mind wanders .. .I dis- tinctly remember thinking about a particular beach in Ecuador, and I couldn't remember the name or face, but only the soft- ness of the voice as she said, \aqui estoy, si quieres ... \ Be· tween drags I could feel the sand on my back, the tide lap- ping at my teet, slowly ebbing in synch with the remains of my cigarette. And then the memory ran as I heard a separate voice emanat- ing from the smoke tails, clear and distinct, it said, \won't you Ia down?\ So I Ia down and ran a finger through her hair, down her cheek and neck. I exhaled; the finger stopped and tell limp by her car. I was not quite in the mood. The alarm clock cried woiC Why did I set an alarm? I swung wildly at it, I connected; but it would not be stopped. I opened my eyes and the ringing ceased. Am I awake'? Was I awake? Confusion settled like a thick haze. Never mind lucid whisps of clarity, never mind any of it. This was my four a.m. voice telling me how little I really know about mysett: What could I think? At this over water that was use to the spaghetti, or the water tfom wiping down the tables. As tor the sewage content off the tap. I guess that's the city's fault; but there's always the Brita (trade- mark). 2. Use freshly ground beans every time. Roach droppings, roach clips, and bean dip do not sutlice. 3. Change the coffee grounds with every pot. Al- though those grounds might look perfectly tine. they don't make good coffee after they've been. used. From the taste, I suspect that west has been try- ing to usc the grounds a dozen or more times at a pop. t:conomy is great. but put the beans ti rs t. 4. Wash the pot '''here you keep the brewed coffee. Now I'm sure your thinking \What's the point of washing the coffee pot. whcJl'wc'rc just going to put more coffee in it.\ My reply would he. \Just because ynu don't wash the silverware. it dtJcsn't mean that you don't have to wash th~.: coffee pot. Try it you'll sec the diiTercnce.\ may not he right but I d~m 't think I care. So I tilled my room with the sounds of The Velvet Underground. stared hack at the 'intense photo' up by where my hcadwas, and involuntarily re- membered a dream from some days ago. I was hurtling down a deep, steep trail on an isolated mountain in New llampshire. Distorted wish fulfillment'! Nahh .. l was there. Like most every dream I can remember. I had been there. done that. And yet that trail was subtly different in the dream! It always is, it is always a distortion; but I can sec the origin too, undistorted as it was. I am be- ginning to feel like I have gone over my head. I'm lost in tricks of my mind. I want to just curse and jump up and down and pray I never dream again ... but ifl did I'd probably wake up. I feel like I'm writing a philosophy paper. so I'll just .stop ... ... drop. and roll out of bed, creating a 220 volt static shocker on my polartleece blan- ket as I do so. The day is young. its time to daydream my way through some classes. you ever get your cofTee to the potable stage. get some real cof1ee cups for god sakes. Where did we ever get such puny, useless coffee cups? Did we divert a shipment des- tin·ed for the land of Oz. or what? 6. Hmmm,l forgot what six was ... six flavors, minimum six batches per day. six beans per cup ... well, never mind. West, I'm sure there is hope for you. I really have faith in you guys. After all, Dutch usu- ally makes good coffee, and they're controlled by the same department. We could perhaps arrange tor a study abroad pro- gram between tood service lo- cations--try sending an \ex- change student\ do\VIl to Dutch llollow, to study under the Java Guru. Cultural Diversity runs rampant by Kate Goldman .fmture . ., !!pecialist This month marks the arrival of two dynamic. thought-pro- voking speakers. brought to Union College by the Peer fa- ci I i tators. On Tuesday, February 20 at X:30 p.m. in the CC auditorium, we will welcome Suzan Show llm:jo, u leading Native Ameri- can activist. She is president and direetorofthe Moming Star foundation, a Native American cultural rights advocacy group, and fom1cr executive director of the National Congress of American Indians. One week later, the 29th of February, we present Melanic Kaye Kantro. Ms. Kaye Kantro combines several issues of in- terest in her presentation; she is an expert on Black-Jewish relations, and will likely discuss her own experience as a lesbian and how it impacts her lite.

Final Schedule MONDA Y 2 MARCH 18 2 1996- 9:30AM-11 :30AM CLS*021*01 History of Greece -Loomis, W. HUMN115 CLS*031N*Ol Survey of Ancient Epic -Mace, S. HUMN112 AAH*034*·0l 19th Century Euro Paint/Sculpt-Eyerman, C. ARTS2l5 ECO*l44*01 International Economics -Motahar, E. HUMNllO BIO*OI6*01 Biology I -Oiberg, R. COLC HST*013*0l History of US to Civil War-Wells, R. SSCI104 B10*024*01 Genetics -Boyer/Horton BAIL207 HST*OJS*Ol History ofEurope I -Halliday, P. SSCilQ3 BIO*l54*0l Developmental Biology -Boyer, B. NWSE 114 HST*Ol5*02 History of Europe I -Hansen, E. HUMN114 BIO*l60*01 Histology & Organolog- Roth, W. BAIL104 HST*036*0l History of Europe 2 -Berk, S. HUMN117 CER*l2&*01 Structural Analysis- Mafi, M. BUTR109 MER*022*0'1 Materials Science & Engineemg -Milillo, F NWSE2l0 EC0*039*01 Public Finance -McCarty, T. SSCI014 M1H*070*01 Fractals -Frame, M. . BAIL 104 EER*048*0l Semiconductor Devices & Circts -Hassib, E.STZH 106 MTH*l36*0l Real Variable Theory 1-Taylor, A. BAIL102 EGL*053*0l Literature of the Renaissance -Stevenson, R HUMNIH> PHL*132*01 Modem Philosophy thru Leibni~ -Ludwig, J. HUMN119 ESC*030*0I Mechanics of Deformable Solids- Bucinell, R. NWSE2l0 PSC*039*0l Feminists Theorize the Politcal- Meyers, P.A. SSClllO GB0*05I*OI Carbonate Sedimentology- Garver, J. I. BUTR20l PSC*068*01 Electoral Politics -Brown, C. SSCill2 GER*OIO*Ol Basic German !-Warde, A. HUMNI15 PSY*020*02 Statistical .Methods/Psychology -DeBono, K. BAIL300 GER*I20*01 Intermediate German 1- Hamm-Ehsani, K SSCI 105 PSY*030*01 Personality- Halpern, L. BAIL20l GER*I21*01 Intermediate German 2 -Hamm-Ehsani, K SSCI 105 PSY*038*01 Developmental Psychology -Stanhope, L. BAIL312 GRK*Oil*OI Principles of Greek 2 -Mace, S. HUMNI13 GRK*I31*01 Herodotus & Thucydides -Loomis, W. HlMNll9 WEDNESDAY 2 MARCH 20 2 1996 -1:30PM-3:30PM LAT*l30N*Ol Catullus & Horace -Sorum, C. DEANSCONF MER*04l\OI Engineering Design 2 -Rivera, M. NWSE222 BIO*OIB*OI Biology 2 -Tobiessen, P. SSCl016 ' MTH*058*02 Appls of Math to Economics 1 -Fairchild, W. BAIL106 CER*OI6*01 CE Computer Applications -Jewell, T.BUTR109 MTH*lOO*Ol Orthogonal Functions -Bick, T. BAIL 102 CER*l32*01 Reinforced Concrete Design-Thabet, W. NWSE116 PHY*017*0l General Physics l -Jones, C. NWSE112 CHM*040*01 Quantitative Chemistry -Werner, T. NWSE201A PHY*Ol7*02 General Physics 1 -Maleki, S. NWSE201A EC0*03l*OI Microeconomic Analysis-Yaisawamg, S. SSCII04 PHY*017A*01 General Physics I -Jones, C. NWSE304 EER*l44*0I Communication Systems. I -Hassib, E. NWSE.222 PHY*048*01 Intelligent Life in Universe -Schick, K. NWSE114 EGL*037B*OI African-American Women Writers -Shour, N. HUMN114 :PSC*05S*Ol International Law -Board, J. SSCI 112 FRN*121*01 Intermediate French 2 -Laparra, C. HUMNll2 PSY*062*01 Practicum in Human Relations I -Dowling, T. BAIL312 JPN*Oll*Ol Basi c Japanese 2- Khan, Y. SSCIOIO PHL*03&*0l Eastern Philosophy- Patrik, L. HUMN117 MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996- 1:30PM-3:30PM PHY*018*01 General Physics 2 -Anderson, A. NWSE300 PHY*Ol8*02 General Physics 2 -Rodriguez, G. NWSE 116 AMU*020*01 Music History & Literature 1-Wilson, H. A. ARTS215 PHY*01&*03 General Physics 2 -Schick, K. NWSE 114 AMU*044*01 Jazz Theory & Impro -Olsen, T. ARTS313 PHY*01&*04 General Physics 2 -Rodriguez, G. NWSE 112 BIO*l80*01 Biochemistry -Salvo, J.L. BAILI06 PSC*012N*01 Intro International Politics- Abootalebi, A. SSCI014 ECO*OI2*02 Introduction to Economics -Schmidt, S.J. SSCI012 PSC*088N*O 1 Politics of Middle East-Abootalebi, A. SSCI 103 ECO*OI2*03 Introduction to Economics -Kwok, C. SSCI 103 PSY*025*01 Intro to Experimental Pych -Bums, D. J. BAIL300 ESC*069*01 Engineering Economics -Anderson, A.M. NWSE114 SPN*Oil*02 Basic Spanish 2 -Garcia, W. HUMNll6 GEO*OII+OJ The Earth & Life thruTime -Rodbell, D. BUTR201 SPN*12l*02 Intermediate Spanish 2 -Martinez, V. HUMNll5 GER*l35*0l Women in German Literature- Kellenter, S. HUMN119 SPN*l49N*OI Spanish Romanticism/Realism -Moyano, P. HUMNIIO GER*I49*01 Deutsche Schriftstellerinnen -Kellenter, S. HUMN 119 GMI*ISO*Ol Organizational Theory -Lehrman, S. HUMN019 THURSDAY 2 MARCH 21 2 1996- 9:30AM-11 :30AM HST*066*01 East Asian Civ- Part II -Madancy, J. SSCI014 MTH*I40*0l Linear Algebra -Sauerberg, J. BAIL102 AAH*026*0l Intro to Hst of Architecture-Matthew, L. ARTS215 MTH*O 19~.01 Linear Algebra/Camp Var/Engrs -Barbanel, J. BAIL201 AAH*030*01 Renaissance Art -Matthew, L ARTS215 MTH*030*01 Ordinary Differential Equation -Fairchild, W. BAIL207 ANT*Oll*Ol Comparing Cultures thnt Film -Leavitt, S. SSCI012 PHL*012*0l History Western Philosophy 2 -Ludwig, J. HUMNI14 ATH*030*01 Movement for Actors -Finlay, W. YULM PHL*l59*01 Post Modernism -Patrik, L. HUMN213 CER*15I*Ol Hydraulics -Jewell, T. . . BUTR109 PSC*084*01 Political Sociology -Weiner, T. SSCIIIO CHM*OlO*Ol Fundamental Chemistcy I -Weick, C. BUTR204 RUS*Oll*Ol Basic Russian 2 -Jordan, B. HUMN113 CHM*Ol0*02 Fundamental Chemistry 1 -Fox, K BUTR204 SOC*124*01 Political Sociology -Weiner, T. SSCI 110 CHM:*Ol2*01 Fundamental Chemistry 2 -Scaife, C. BUTR204 SPN*011*01 Basic Spanish 2 -Garcia, W. HUMN117 CHM*012*02 Fundamental Chemistry 2 -Carroll, M. BUTR204 CHM*012*03 Fundamental Chemistry 2 -Scaife, C. BUTR204 TUESDAY, MARCH 19,1996- 9:30AM-11:30AM CHM*150*0l Physical Chemistry 1 -Hayes, D. NWSEI16 CSC*038*01 Intro to Computer Science -Hemmendinger,D BUTR300 BIO*l70*01 General ~ndocrinology -Butterstein, G BAIL207 EC0*033*01 Public Policy & Amer Industry -Klein, D. SSCI104 GE0*025*01 Tectonics -Garver, J. I. BUTR20l EER*143*01 Electromagnetic Engineering 1 -Chang, Y. NWSE201A HST*072*0l Early Jewish History- Berk, S.SSCI 104 ESC*015*01 Numerical Methods & C Language -Almstead, L. NWSE114 HST*046*0l Stuart England: 1603-1714- Halliday, P.SSCI 112 HST*049*01 Europe Between Two Wars -Hansen, E. SSCI 112 HST*129*01 African-American Thought -Miller, A.T. SSCI 103 MLT*OI7*01 An East Asian Sampler -Khan, Y. HUMNII6 JPN*I2l*Ol Intermediate hr:~ncst> :!-Khan, Y. HUMN213 PHL*OI4*01 Introduction to Ethics -Baker, R. HUMN114 JPN*l31 *01 Advanced Interm Japanese II- Khan, Y.HUMN21 PSY*020*01 Statistical Methods/Psycholo~'Y -Greenberg, S. BAILJOO LAT*OII*Ol Principles of Latin 2- Scullion, J. S HUMN116 PSY*057*0l Applied Cognitive Psychology -Bums, D. J. BAIL201 MER*033*01 Fluid Mechanics -Sh'lnc!Jrook, J. NWSE222 MTH*010*01 Calculus l -Taylor, A. BAILIOO THURSDAY 2 MARCH 21 2 1996 -1:30PM-3:30PM MTH*012*01 Calculus 2 -Prindle, A. BAIL104 MTH*Ol2*02 Calculus 2 -Muckenfuss, J. BAIL201 ANT*080*0I Native Americans- Schaefer, J. G. SSCI 112 MTH*OI2*03 Calct!ll,ls 2 -Reynolds, P. BAIL 106 CHN*Oil*Ol Basic Chinese 2 -Xie, Y. HUMN119 MTH*Ol2*04 Calculus 2 -Muckenfuss, J. BAIL201 EGL*022N*OI Major American Authors- Slade, L. HUMNIIO MTH*OI5*01 Calculus 3 -Rosenthal, K. BUTR 109 FRN*Ol1*0l Basic French 2 -Laparra, C. HUMNII6 MTH*Ol5*02 Calculus 3 -Rosenthal, K. BUTR 109 GEO*Ol4*01 Our Changing Planet -Locke, S. BUTR201 MTH*OI5*03 Calculus 3 -Sauerberg, J. NWSE 112 MTH*Ol7*01 Calculus IV :Integral Vector-Frame, M. BAIL 104 MTH*028*01 Probability -Barbanel, J. NWSE 114 PHY*042*01 Great Ideas of Modem Physics- Reich, G. NWSE112 MTH*l24*01 Geometry -Zimmermann, K. BAIL 102 PSY*OIO*Ol Intra to Psychology -Stanhope, L. BAIL312 PHY*020*01 General Physics 4 -Khosropour, R. NWSE328 PSY*OION*02 Intro to Psychology -Halpern, L. BAIL207 PSY*OSO\'OI Educational Psycholob'Y -Campito, J. BAIL312 PSY*024*01 Social Psychology-DeBono, K. BAIL201 RUS*I21*01 Intermediate Russian 2 -Jordan, B. HUMN 119 SOC*OI0*02 Intra to Sociology-Cotter, D. SSCI 103 SPN*J33*01 Spanish Peninsular Lit 2 -Moyano, P. HUMN110 SOC*024*0l Social Psychoiogy~DeBono, K. BAIL201 SPN*l21*01 Intermediate Spanish 2-Martinez, V. HUMNI17 TUESDA Y 2 MARCH 19 2 1996 -1:30PM-3:30PM FRIDAY 2 MARCH 22 2 1996- 9:30AM-11:30AM ANT*OIO*Ol Intro to Cultural Anthrpology-Leavitt, S. SSCI 112 CHM*032*01 Organic Chemistry 2-Hull, L. BUTR204 AAH*Ol2*01 Intro to Art History -Part 2-Eyerman, C. ARTS215 CHM*032*02 Organic Chemistry 2 -Adrian, J. BUTR204 CSC*Oll*Ol Programming for the Sciences-Almstead, L. NWSE210 EC0*065*01 Non Profits & Cooperatives -Fried, H. SSCIOIO CSC*014*01 Information Processing-Macherone, B. NWSEII4 ESC*O II *0 I Engineering Graphics-Mafi, M. BUTR300 EC0*012*0l Introduction to Economics-Fried, H. SSCI 112 ESC*Ol3*01 High-Level LanguagePrograming-Teresco, J. STZH 106 EGL*020*01 Major English Authors 2-Frazier, A. HUMNII2 GER*OII*OI Basic German 2 -Warde, A. HUMNIIO EGL*035*01 Literature of Holocaust-Heinegg, P. HUMNI15 HST*063*01 History of Caribbean/Cent Amer- Meade, T. SSCI012 GEO>~<OI5\0l GeologyofNational Parks-Shaw, G. BUTR20l HST*l21 *01 Amer Constitutional/Legal Hist -Jonas, M. BAIL201 PSC*011N*02 Intro to American Politics-Weiner, T. SSCI014 MTH*099*01 Intro to Logic & Set Theory -Niefield, S. ALUM307 SPN*OIO*Ol Basic Spanish 1-0suna, M. HUMN117 t>HY*052*01 Intermed Classical Mechanics -Reich, G. NWSE 112 PSC*OI2*01 lntro International Politic -Gilman, T. SSCI 104 FRIDA Y 2 MARCH 22, 1996 -1:30PM-3:30PM SPN*l20*01 Intermediate Spanish l -Osuna, M. HUMN 115 SPN*I20*03 Intermediate Spanish I -Merediz, E. HUMNOl9 Survey of Accounting-Lewis, W. ACC*OIO*Ol HUMNOI4 WEDNESDA Y 2 MARCH 20 2 1996- 9:30AM-11:30AM ATH*Ol2*01 Beginning Acting-Rose, L YULM EC0*042\'01 Macroeconomic Theory & Policy-Motahar, E. SSCI014 EC0*141N*Ol Monetary Economics-Kwok, C. STZH106 BI0*026*01 The Cell- Smith/Salvo BAIL 207 EER*04J>~<OJ Electric Circuits-Gajjar, J. NWSEll2 BIO*l36*01 Cell Regulation Mechanisms -Danowski, B. NWSE 116 GE0*020*01 MineralogyHollocher, K. BUTR201 CER*022*01 Civil Engr Materials- Ghaly, A. BUTR 109 HST*Ol4*01 History of US Since Civil War-Feffer, A. SSC1112 CHM*I iB*Ol Inorganic Chemistry 2 -Lou, K. STZH 106 soc•I53*Dl Sociology of the Handicapped-Weiner, T. SSCI 105

Personals and Classifieds. SOCIAL ISSUES DISCUSSION GROUP Topic: \Are Union Students Homophobic?' Date: Wednesday, February 21, 1996 Time: 6:00 - 8~00 p.m. Place: Social Sciences Lounge Dinner will be provided. Pre-register Wifh Sociology Dept.-- Janet McQuade (X6292). If you have any questions, call Linda Relyea (X6008) •. LIMITED TO 15 PEOPLE. CDC Updates ••• • TODAY Emnu:s Willard one year teaching internship opportunity · will be discussed by the director of the school at the CDC @4pm. • Grey Advertising is interviewing '96 Grads for Ass't Media Plan- ner and Ass't Account Executive positions. Resume deadline Feb. 19 to the CDC. • VTR Capital, Inc. Investment Banking firm is seeking account executive/stockbroker- Resume deadline Feb. 19. • Prudential Preferred Financial Services is currently recruiting new sales associates particularly for Connecticut State Residents. Resume deadline Feb. 23. Internship Opportunities: • Delmar Publishers in Albany offering immediate internships available for juniors or seniors. Submit resumes to the CDC as soon as possible, no later than Friday, Feb. 16. Additional details about the positions are available in the CDC library. • Berkshire County, Mass. seeks two CE students for summer internship. Submit cover letter and resume to the CDC by Mon- day, Feb. 26. Additional position information is at the CDC library. Job Search Strategies Workshop -Tues. Feb, 20,7 pm@CDC Career Development Center- Third Floor, Old Chapel - . . . - · -A·nnouncements · , - · · . . ' - - . . . The Rathskellar will now be open late night. o~ Friday and Saturday evenings · from 9:00pm- midnight. Meal equivalencies are also accepted as on weekdays, and bottled beer w-ill be offered 9:00pm-midnight. So come in and enjoy a midnight snack with your friends and listen to the jukebox. Play your favorite tunes ..• Splendor in Stone This renowned exhibit from the State Museum at Albany of spectacular color photographs of thin sections of rocks visits the Nott Memorial on the Union College campus January 22 to February 29 Thin sections are slices of rock 1/850th of an inch thick, glued to glass. Seen through a polarized light micro- scope, the rocks have colors and patterns that astonish and amaze! In addition to being unusual and dramatic abstract art, the colors and patterns can tell geologists about the minerals present and how the rock formed. Open to all! You won't believe such images are real! Vennont schist, plane polarized light (actual width is 8 mm)

Page 18 F cbruary 15, 1~96 '(ft}r.e Oinncnri'ri.ensis Sports Intramural Update \A\ BASKETBALL LEAGUE I PF PA Robots 2-0 129 96 Lambs 2~0 12133 Delta Phi 2..{) 38 37 PhiDelt 1-1 35 68 Blue&Gold 1-1 103 94 Beef·. 0-2 80 94 LEAGUER PF PA SigChiA 2-0 129102 TDChi 2-0 76 63 Crown Us 2-0 109. 62 Sam Devious . 1-1 98 16 Jleta B:oys .. 1-1 105 21 To Be Deter. 0..2 111 21 . •· . Bom:t? ~q~ad 0.2 98 14 Davidson 0-2 47 74 \B\BASKETBALL LEAGUE I PF PA SigGhiB 2-0 120 74 PhiSig 2-0 60 57 TI1e Lodge 1·1 115 110 420· 1-1 34 64 ZBT 1-1 105 104 Rejects· 1-1 82 96 AEPI 0-2 86 97 LEAGUED PF PA FijiA .. ·2-0 78 54 Conglomeration 2-0 95 64 Ewok's 2-0 133 95 FijiB · 2-0 69 64 Sad-But True 0-2 64 95 Milwarikee' s 0-2 79-131 Southern Comf. 0-2 90 103 Al'sCrew 0-2 51 68 MEN''S BROOMBALL LEAGUE I GF GA Lodge 2-0 08 02 Sig Phi 1-0-1 08 !X:i Pl1i Delt 1-0-1 03 01 DPhi: 1-1 01 00 fsles · · l-1 00 !X:i Phi Sig 0-1-1 02 (JJ AEPI 0-1-1 02 04 Psi U 0-2 01 03 LEAGUED GF GA SlgChi 3-0 23 01 , \Rugby 3-0 05 01 ·Lambs l-2 ps 05 Whales 1-2 03' 11 :·TDChi 1-2 03 (JJ ZBT 0-3 01 15 LEAGUEID GF GA .Fiji· 3-0 (X) 00 ,Cool Guys 3-0 11 ·~ SigChr B 2-1 08 !X:i S0uthem Comf. 2-1 03 (J) ,Blue& Gold 1-2 02. !X:i Sliding Dutch. 1-2 01 10 'Glazer 0-3 01 04 MEN'SICEHOCKEY .LEAGUEI GF GA Southem Com f. 3-0 28 (Xj SigChi 2-0-1 25 (Jj Old Time Hockey 2-0-l 14 06 No Good 1-2 12 29 Game Hens 0-3 07 11 Psi U 0-3 10 35 LEAGUED GF GA Molson Ice 3-0 35 13 Golden Anniv, 1-2 15 18 Phi Delt 1-2 14 23 TDChi 1-2 12 23 the- Greg Kalish Staff Writer Is the world of sports on your m-i~d? Are you constantly wondering about' the latest doings in the NBA? The fast-paced action of the NHL? The comings and go- ings in baseball or football? If these top~ ics are indeed on your mind, well, .you have come to wrong place. My m~nd 'is void of sports at the moment. Perhaps its the lull in the NBA and NHL seasons, two leagues which play a total of just un- der five thousaud games before their re- spective league titles are awarded. The Jsraelites wandered the desert feir lon-ger · than it takes to crown the next Stanley Cup champion, or so it seems. Maybe its because I'rn sick of trying to figure out which baseball playeris wearing what uni- form and who is playing for whatever amount of money. When I was ten years old, I could name the starting field for all the national league teams .and probably more than l1alf of the Americaq league teams. Now, I watch games in July an~· find myself asking, \when .in the hell did this guy get on this team?\ So, I've given up trying to keep up with thatfarce~ora· · sport. And with labor talks re.s~rfacing?'. Strike talks in baseball make you look for..; ward to the upcoming season like Alanis Morisette songs make you cheery. Afld what about the NFL? l'm afraid to open a i1ewspaper to see what's going oli. The · Los Angeles Seahawks? The Baltimore · Mustangs? Bring back the USFL for cry- .· ing out loud! It used to be that player corner loyalty was the issue. Now, franchises have about as much loyalty to their cities as George Cuttita has relevant and useful sports information to disperse. And that's not much. Meanwhile, for those of you who are in· search of a sports fix, those once relia~le geysers of sports highlights and infonna,- . tion can no longer be counted on as they once were. It's hard to watch SportsCenter anyone without finding yourself bored at some point by legal or financial analysis. And it is not ESPN's fault either, or any other sports program which finds itself re- peatedly going live to a courtroom in King County. Washington to discuss a referen- dum to build a ~ulti-domed. stadium which can support up to five professional sports teams and flfty-threedifferent types ofhabi- tats. Lawsuits between owners and the cities they used to rep:r;esent (see Cleve- land v. Alrt ModeH}, players in jail (see New York St.ate v. Anthony Tucker), these are the signs ofthe times. Even .Sportsline, the 8:00 Sunday night call-in sp01tstalk show on WRUC (shameless plug) that everyone listen~· to but refuses to participate has changed its format, slightly. This past week- end, the showwhicb.advertisesto be dedi- cated to talking sports for one hour ar- ranged 'a Valentine's Day .blind date be- tween two ;Union College stu<;lents. Th~ r . . event consu,med close to three-q1,1arters of the one-hour show, and it was without .doubt the most entertaining and enjoyable show in the hist~~y of Spo~sJine. Not only are real sports disappearing from those networks who have become so adept at covering America's obsession, they are poppi:p.g up inplaces never before seen. The New York Knicks made the front pages of most New York newspapers last week. Why? Reserve forward Anthony Tucker popped a cop, and John Starks Went after are- porter. Tough guys!. The head:.lining hockey article in the New York Post last Thursday dealt with an impending court mling which would determine whether or not a collection of players in the NHL are owed bonus money from teams that tradedthem away. CNNTalkBack:Live was consumed last week with numer- ous round table discussions concem- ing to merry-go-round of franchises in the NFL. WhathappenedtoMoneyline with Lou Dobbs? Inside Politics with Bernie Shaw? Come on Ted! What is the point here? I'm not quite sure, to be honest. Actually, as I write this article, I have just finished taking a midterril examination, hence exhausting all bull-·· ·-·-ing ability I can possibly muster in one day. The.fact of the mat- ter is this: sportdssues ·¥e being dis- cussed everywhereyoulook, on ESPN, on CNN, on NBC,.ev~n the Playboy Channel (second..:fiano information). The.~crim.eofit Iillis that these are not rea] sports issues. Tiu~.s~ are issues of greed and thuggery, the giving of air- time to the dregs ofsociety. P~rhaps it is I who am mistaken, -~nd these issues of which I speak hav.e become one with the world of sports. I certaihly hope not. ,l:)o Vott Want. VI SA & Mas·ietcar.tl credi-t Cards-? r vuc7 ia61 .. 1;: -FEDE~AL .. m,;. :suirri -2 i6 :- 1 I HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA ..13020 I • • • ¥ • Now )IOU «~an have two cor the rnnst recognized and ac:a:pted credit cards In I he world ... VIsaP.J and MasterCard& cn:dlt cards. .. \ln your name.\ E\'EN IF YOU 4\JW; NEW IN CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 1lJRNED OOWN'BEFURE! VJSAe and MastetCarde the cn:dd cards you deserve and need for- ID-BOOK5--DEPARTMENT SfORES-nJJTION-ENTERTAJNM ENT- EMERGENCY C'ASU- TICKETS-RESTAURANJS- I'JQTELS--MOTEI..S-GI\5-CAR REN'TALS- REPAIR5-AND 10 BUIW YOUR CREDIT RATINOI ~~lt~ fto turn downs! GUt.\ 1\\) lfo credit. checks! t.1£'t~- \4\S~n•: 't~.,.. No security deposit! G't:~~i 1 SEND UIE COUPON TODAY YoUR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING! : YJ~S! twantVJSt\8/MASfERCt\RD8 Cmllt : i OudS.appro~ Immediately. 100o/e OUARAHTEEill I I I I NAME I I I ADDRESS CITY -------- STATE- ZIP-- : PHONE ··----- S.S. 11 -- ............ ~-- 1 SIGNA11JRE ---------- 1 I I .tlOTE: f.1:tstnCanll\ a ~~~~mJ lralkm:am a Ma.-ttnOmllnlrrnllllonllllnc Vt5a Is a ~lo;lrtnl l!adrnotk ol VISA USA. Inc ahd VISA lrilr'ttl'lllnt~ll tl11!11 an:t·l :JO~+I!IU·I: ll•t•t-\1 --------- I I I I

Sports . 'Cl!.fte C!In:u.cnr.biensis • February 15, 1996 • Page 19 Dutchmen Eliminated From Playoffs Jon Gasthalter Contrib.uting Editor The Union College basketball Dutch- men had anothertough weekend against Upstate CoUegiate Athletic Association opponents Cl~rkson and St Lawrence. The Dutchmen, who entered the week- end with a 6,.13 recQrd. overall and a 2~5 record in the league, were looking to turn things around and make a playoff run with only six games left in the regular season, i'our against teams in the Up- state Collegiate Athletic Association. On Friday-night, February 9th, the MUSIC! MUSIC! ana more MUSIC! Live Shows Justin! ·CD&TAPE RANCID- HOOTIE. PEARL JAM- TORI LIVE- ETI-IERIDGE BUSH - RAMONES PORNO FOR PYROS PHIS,H- DEAD DAVEMATIHEWS BJORK- BEASTIES and lots more ... Video Games SNES & Genesis Start at $5 All1995 OJ Tapes Only$3Each Rap, Reggae &Soul Dutchmen played host tothe. Clarkson Golden Knights at Memorial Fieldhouse. Clarkson outmuscled the Dutchmen under- neath the hoop grabbing many of- fensive rebOl1tlds and converting them. into points. Matt Sugarman paced Union with twenty-two points and Rob TeCarr and freshman Brian Hava added sixteen as the Dutchmen fell 68-59. · Saturday night, February 1Oth, St. Lawrence was Union's guest. The - Saints shot 61% ::::::::::::~:::::::: from the floor en route to their 101-74 ~H1::- romp of the Dutch- men. The bright spot for Union in the game was Jamie Haver's nineteen points including four three-pointers. With the four three-pointers, Haver tied the Union College single-season record for three-pointer of 84 set by Jerry Brescia_during the 1989-90 season. TeCarr, Hava, and Sugarman provided the off~nse for the Dutchmen as the team lost its eighth straight game. The two losses this past weekend eliminate the Dutchmen from playoff competition. The final six games will be directed at developing future Dutch- men stars Hava, Ryan Smith, and Rob TeCarr. Hoop Notes Senior Bill Bahrs and sophomore Len Mortimore were ejected for their roles in a fight Saturday night against St. Lawrence. Union Indoor Track at Hamilton Invitational cont'd JennelRpyalfinishedsixth.withathrowof that being their anchor leg Flynn would 12.57 meters. In the weight throw Pete not be able to run due to blisters on his Moody had a personal record toss of 9.46 feet. He apparently ran so fast in the 800 meters. In the 400 meters Mike Leding set meters that he burned aU the skin off his a personal record in a time of 52.82 sec- feet. So as the team was at the line they onds placing third. In what turned out to had to s.cramble to find another runner and be one of the most entertaining races of set up an order that the day both Pete Flynn would still give them a and Nick CoRway chance to .get first eclipsed the previous place. Jason Jennings meetrecordrtmningtimes who had been sitting ofl :57.11 and 1:57.93 re- for over an hour de- spectively to place first·. cided to step in and mn and second and to qualify third, and Conway themselves for states.. would anchor. Stram ~~~~~ w~~~~ currently ranked one and stick to Leding in a two in the state. In the close third. Leding im.- 3 000 meters John mediately over took tl1e two runners ahead \Shaggy\ Metz cruised to fifth place in a of him and started to open up a lead. time of9:43.80. In the last event ofthe day Jennings and Leding had never worked on t;he4x400meterrelayteamofConway,Russ tile pass before, so Leding coming in, in Stram, Leditlg; and Flynn got some bad first thinking he was Michael Johnson told news-abaut twn·minutes-prior to the race - Jennings to take offto soon, and Jennings being used to a4xl 00 hand-aff started fly- ing. After stopping just prior to leaving the exchange zone Jennings took the ba- ton in first place and started off. Jennings ran masterfully just being caught at the end by Ithaca's third leg and handing off to Conway in a close second. Conway pro- ceeded to treat Ithaca's anchor leg like a battered step child and walked him down in the last 50 meters to give Union the win in a time of3:34.52. It was truly incredible the way they performed with so much stress prior to the race, and the team greatly appreciated the effort turned in by Jennings. Titese types of things didn't happen in the past for Union track, this is truly the best team I've been a part of since I've been here and I look forward to seeing . everyone do well at the conference meet and at states and in the outdoor season to come. Dutchmen Drop Two cont'd loss was equaled the following night, this time the Dutchmen fell to the league leading St. Lawrence Saints, 6-5. After playing quite impressively against Clarkson, Leeor Shtrorn started in net against the Saints on Saturday. St. Lawrence took the lead six minutes into the period. The Dutchmen answered back yet again, . this time it was freshman Mark Szucs who did the scoring, converting a Chliis Ford pass for his third goal of the season. The Dutchmen took a 2- 1 lead thirty seconds into the second period, on Russ Monteith's six goal of the season. Reid Simonton imd Jamie Antoine assisted on the goal. The Saint's high-powered offense an- swered back twice in the period, leav- ing the score 3-2 after two periods. Chris Ford evened the score at 3-3, two minutes into the third period, on assists from Charlie Moxham and Joel Bond. The Saints stormed right back, regaining the lead twenty seven seconds later. They added to their lead four min- utes later, making the score 5-3. Ryan Donovan got the Dutchmen within one, netting his seventh goal of the season, Jamie Antoine and Scott Boyd assisted on the goal. Once again the Saints came' right back, this time it took them only fourteen seconds to regain their two goal lead. The Dutchmen refused to give up, as Donovan added his second of the game, getting the Union within one. However, that was as close as the Dutchmen would come, as St. Lawrence held on for a 6-5 win. Although the weekend didn't help the Dutchmen in their playoff drive, it did teach them that they can play hockey with two of the league's top teams. With six games remaining it his difficult to predict where the Dutchmen are headed. Three of the teams the Dutchmen face, Colgate, Cornell, and Vermont, are all above .500. While Dartmouth, Yale, and Princeton are all at the bottom of the ECAC standings. The Dutchmen have proved that they can play with the best of them. The question is, will they?

February 15, 1996 PAGE20 Weekend Heartbreak: Dutchmen Drop Two by Dagan Lacotie staff writer Two of the top teams· in the ECAC came to Schenectady this weekend, hoping to gain to easy wins age.inst the offensively ane- mic Skating Dutchmen. However, Clarkson and St. Lawrence found that was not the case, as the Union Dutchmen played great hockey in both games this weekend. Although the Dutchmen lost both games by one goal, the offense finally clicked, scoring nine goals in the two games. The Dutchmen opened the scoring on Friday night early in the first period. Freshman Brent Ozarowski scored his eleventh goal of the season, while the Dutchmen were on the power play. Jun- iors Chris Ford and Russ Monteith .assisted on the goal. Clarkson's power play clicked as well, evening the score at 1-1, with twelve minutes remaining in the first period. Clarskson's power play succeeded once again in the first period, giving the Golden Knights a 2-1 lead after the first period. The Golden Knights continued their offensive onslaught early in the second period, as Trevor Koenig surrendered the third goal, less than one minute into the period. The Dutchmen refused to let the game get out of their hands, as Brent Ozarowski got the Dutch- men within one goal, once again while on the power play. Chris Ford and Seabrook Satterlund assisted on Ozarowski's twelfth Reid Simonton just misse$ in one goal loss to St.Lawrence. plwto by RickLederer/TI1e Conr;ordiensis goal of the season. Once again the Golden Knights answ~red back. regaining their two-goal lead with five minutes remaining in the second period. Following the second period, Coach Bruce Delventhal pulled Koenig, who allowed.four goals on twenty shots, replacing him with freshman Leeor Shtrom. Shtrom and the Dutchmen responded in the final period, shut- t~ng down Clarkson's offense. Shtrom kept the Golden Knights off the board for most of the period, turning away fifteen shots in the period. The Dutchmen cut Clarkson's lead to one g(lal, when Russ Monteith spotted a wide opert Pat O'Flaherty in fr()nt of the Clarkson net.. O'Fiaherty took Monteith's pass and blasted it by Clarkson goalie Dan Murphy, making the score 4-3. The Dutch- men continued to apply the pressure, and netted the equalizer thirty nine seconds later. Sophomore Clurlie Moxham, playing in his first game since January 20, banged home a loose puck in front of the Clarkson net, evening the score at 4-4. Juniors Ryan Donovan and John Sicinski assisted on Moxllam's first of the year. Unfortunately for Union that was as close as they would get, as Clarkson once again regained the lead, this time for good. With less than one minute remaining there was a big scramble in front of the net, and the puck slipped by goalie Leeor Shtrorn, sealing the victory for the Golden Knights. Friday night's heart breaking Cllris Ford pre~sing Clarkson. Photo by rick Lederernlre Concordiensis continued on page 19 Union Indoor Track at Hamilton Invitational by Mike Leding staff writer There were a number of delightful perfonnances recorded by both the men and woman at this past weekends Hamilton hwitational. 1he men finished in fifth place out of eight teams four points out of third, and one point out of fourth a.ma.ssing 60 poii1ts. TI1e woman finished ii1 last pla~e, but qualified some ladies for states, and set a few per- sonal records. Top six placed at this meet. For the woman Amelia Audette broke her own personal record once again on her way to placing fifth in the 3000meters in a time of 11 :25.52. In the weight throw Michelle Woodward set a personal record and qualified herself for states with a toss of 1 0.17 meters. Julie Finnan placed fourth it1 the shot put with a throw of 9.58 meters. lh the high jump Kathy Bugden tied for sixth with a leap of 1 .38 meters to ronnd out the scoring for the woman. A number of the woman could not attend this meet due to personal .reasons, but they will return for the conference meet this weekend at St. Lawrence. For the men, Dave Riggi qualified for states in the 55 meter dash runnilig a 6.60 flat to grab first place. Riggi also came back to finish second in the 200 meters in a time of 23.55 seconds also qualifying himself for states. Seth Rudin broke his outdoor personal record in the 1500 meters to place fourth in a blazing time of 4:12.49. Jason Jennings placed sixth in the long jump with a leap of 5.76 meters. In the shot put continued 011 page 19 Women's Hoops 2/16- @ Skidmore 5:30 2/17- @ RPI 2:00 Men's Hoops 2/16-@ Skidmore W ' s . . . . . omen s . Wimming 2/15-17- NYCWCAA Champ. @Hamilton 2:00 Track 2/17- UCAA Meet@ SLU 10:00

.. God Save A1nerica ... fi\Oitl BtLchanan! · ···. ' . . ' . ' : ... .. nn.cnr t.ensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXV, Number XIV Schenectady, New York February 22, 1996 Hull's Christening by Aileen Quigley Staff Writer considered a club sport, and there~ fore it has a significantly smaller budget. The team refuses to allow flow does one express thanks this to affect their enthusiasm and for a gesture that changes one's competitive edge. They have future for the better? The Union taken on nunterous fund~l'aising College Crew Team happHy efforts, as .pointed out on Friday found itself in such a position as byCo~Presidents·Caroline Nemet it searched for a way to express and Mike Fe~guson; By spending its gratitude to President Hull for weekends going out into the com- his large donation on behalf of the munity shoveling. driveways and College. The christening of the\~.., collecting.pledges for the upcom- \Roger H. Hull\ took place in \-i)Jg E~g-a~thon, the novice and front ofthe R.eamer CampusCen- -.- exp~nenced rowers and cox- ter on Friday, February 16th at s~ams h~ve attempted to narrow 12:00. Using sparkling apple ci- thts.margm. However, the amount der, President Hull captured the of money needed to finance an essence of the progressive rela- endeavor such as. the new boat- tions between the college and ho,us~ would have taken years t? Union Crew. The boat was dedi- rrusem the present manner. Presi- cated to President Hull as a ges- dent ~ull 's donation in the name ture of appreciation for the large of Umon c.ollege .has tume~ the donation which will enable plans near-unattamable mto a reahty. for a new boathouse to material- The new boathouse was not a ize. The p1~n 1 s have been re- frivolity but rather a necessity in viewed and construction will be- order for the existence of Union gin in the .near future. Crew to continue. The former The financial situation of the practice and race site was the crew team is precarious because Aqu_ed:uct Racing. Club, located of crew's lack of varsity sportsta.. off of Van Vranken Street about tus. As of this date, crew is still three miles from campuS'. How- ever, the lease expired and the team had to move out. The boats, oars, and other equipment were transported from Aqueduct to the basement of Achilles Rink. for temporary storage. Formerly a curling rink, it is now the home of the. racing shells and oars pn- til they are taken to Chestertown, Maryland, for the spring break training trip on March 23n;L This signifies the· beginiling of the spring .,n,.,·nt-. ing season and the first unoffi- cial, races against Washington College and Hobart and William·. Smith Colleges. The President observed that the \Roger H.· Hull\\;.,hasn't lost a race yet..,\: The rowers and coxswains· which fill its seats will do their best to make sure it maintains its unblemished record! April20: University ofRhode Island, UVM, and RIT April 21 : Skidmore Invita- 1 tional- RIT, Skidmore, RPI, AI- • bany April 27 : Ithica .. Marist Union College President Roger H. wit/1 t/te crew team's new dingily tlte \Roger H. Hull\ Pl10to by Aileen Quig/eyfllte Concordiensis Tuition Soars Again Brandon D. Declet Staff Writer This week the Board of Trustees approved next year's fiscal budget for the 1996-1997 academic year. It included not only all of next year's usual appropriations but also it included across the board increases in tuition and financial aid, two of the more important issues to students on campus. Ac~ cording to President Hull, it is designed to enhance the excellence of the College while recognizing the financial pressures affecting not only the institu- tion, but the students and their families who in the end will fit most of the bill. The 70.4 million dollar budget is a 3.5 percent increase of expenditure over last years fiscal bud- get. According to Charlie Casey, from Unipn's Public Relations Office, the budget encompasses a number of new financial commitments and expen- ditures. First and probably the most important is the tuition increase of about 4.3 percent for a grand total of$ 27,325. Casey emphasized that the in- crease is one of the lowest in the last 20 years and is consistent with the College's commitment to keep increases close to the rate of inflation. Secondly, he cited that tuition increases have simply become a fact of life on all college campuses and that the cost is very representative of what it costs to edu~ cate a student at Union for four years. The College also reaffirmed its commitment to Cont'd on Page 3

Thursday February 22, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone Harold Lohner Exhibition- Silent Hero~s-Prints/Drawings 8:00a 8:30a NOTT MEMORIAL Exhibit: Splendor in Stone Chet's. open 9:00a 12;00p 8:00p 6:00p ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM lO:OOp NOTTMEMORIAL 12:00a CC CHET'S Friday, February 23, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone Harold Lohner Exhibition- 8:00a 8:30a NOTT MEMORIAL Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings 9:00a 6:00p ARTS BUILDING ATRil)M Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 12:00p 5:00p NOTT MEMOR.IA.l..- Winterfest Entertainment 6:00p 12:00a CC CHET'S Saturday, February 24, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone Harold Lohner Exhibition- 8:00a 8:30a Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings 9:00a_ 6:00p Exhibit: Splendor in Stone _ 12:oop 5:00p Winterfest-Outdoor Games 1 :OOp 4:00p NOTT MEMORIAL ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM NO'IT MEMORIAL CC FRONT LAWN CC TERRACE (FRONT) Sunday, February 25, 1996 Exbi~it Spl~ndot in Stone .. ~:OOa . Harold' Lohner Exhibition..: · : · Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings 9:00a Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 12:00p 8:30a NOTT MEMORIAL 6:00p ARTS BUll.DING ATRIUM 1 O:OOp NO'IT MEMORIAL Monday, February 26, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone Harold Lohner Exhibition- 8:00a 8:30a NO'IT MEMORIAL Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings 9:00a 6:00p ARTSBUILDINGATRlUM Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 12:00p 1 O:OOp NO'IT MEMORIAL Tuesday, February 27, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 8:00a 8:30a NOTT MEMORIAL Harold Lohner Exhibition- Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings 9:00a 6:00p ARTS BUILDING A TRTIJM Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 12:00p 1 O:OOp NOTT MEMORIAL Free Movies: Gooqfellas and The Untouchables 7:00p ll:OOp CC CHET'S Wednesday, February 21, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 8:00a 8:30a NOTT MEMORIAL Harold Lohner Exhibition- Silent Heroes-PrintsiDrawings 9:00a 6:00p ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM Exhibit Splendor in Stone 12:00p 10:00p NOTT MEMORIAL Lecture: Rosina Fernof: Terrorism In Israel 7:00p 9:00p CC AUDITORIUM Crimes of the Heart Theater Production 8:00p 10:00p YULMAN THEATER Chet's Open 8:00p 12:00a CC CHET'S Thursday, February 22, 1996 Exhibit: Splendor in Stone 8:00a 8:30a NOTT MEMORIAL Harold Lohner Exhibition~ Silent Heroes-Prints/Drawings 9:00a 6:00p ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM Crimes of the Heart Theater Production 8:00p lO:OOp Yill,MAN THEATER Exhibit: .Splendor in Stone 12:00p lO:OOp NOTT MEMORIAL Chet's Open 8:00p 12:00a CC CHET'S MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12,1996: 8:40AM Davidson North 9:15AM Rayrno!ld South 4:00PM West Dining TUESDAY, FE:PRUARY 13, l99{j: NO SERIOUS INCIDENTS REPORTED. WEDNESDA \', )fEBRUARY 14! 199{j: 1:15PM Administration 4:20PM Hickok House THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1996: 2:15AM North Terrace Lane 8:45AM College Center Circle FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1996: 1: 14 AM Richmond 1:30PM Fox Ho11se 9:30PM West College 11:40 PM Phi Delta Theta SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1996: 8:47AM · Davidson North 2:15PM Delta Phi SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1996: 12:36 AM North College 13:78 AM 12:00 PM 1:02PM 2:20PM 5:47PM 5:52PM 6:06PM Fraternity Raymond South AD Phi Ellis Hospital Edwards House Potter House Fox/Davidson Lot MONDAY., FEBRUARY 1? 2 1996: 12:50 AM Achilles Lot 1:27AM Blue Gate Entrance MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: 13roken bottles and debris strewn throughout common area. VANDALISM: Windows broken, garbage. ,dumped in corridors and plaster dumped floor and carpet. THEFT: food display stolen. FORGERY: Improper use and misrepre- sentation of .official campus mail. Suspect identified. AGGRA VA T.ED HARASSMENT: Annoyance phone c~lls. SAFETY HAZARDN ANDALISM: Traffic control signs removed from barrier gates. MOTOR VEIDCLE ACCIDENT: Property damage auto accident. Car slid on slushy roadway and struck signpost. FIRE ALARMJLIFE SAFETY VIO- LATION: Fire alarm caused by burnt food. Food was left unattended on stove. Life Safety ViolatiQn Notice filed. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Two students observed using drug paraphernalia in common area. Suspects gone on arrival. VANDALISM: Student's room lock vandalized. FIRE ALARM/LIFE SAFETY VIO- LA'I'ION: Fire alarm caused by intentional false activation of pull box. on 2nd floor. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. VANDALISM: Window in lounge area broken. A chair was thrown through the window. VANDALISM/UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Suspect observed entering house. Door lock forced open. Inci- dent occurred in early morning not reported until mid-day. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor ofmruriimmal reported. Report confirmed. Source not located. HARASSMENT/SIMPLE ASSAULT: Altercation between two students. Each sustained minor injuries. Altercation reportedly triggered by name calling and racial comments. Conduct Charges filed against several students. LIF:E SAFETY VIOLATION: Room extinquishers in two rooms had been discharged and a third one was missing. Life Safety Violations Notices filed. THEFT: Stud.ent's guest's coat stolen. OFF CAMPUS INCIDENT: SPD Called to advise that a prisoner had escaped from the emergency room. The prisoner was dressed in a hospital gown and ran westbound on Nott. Campus area was checked suspect was not spotted. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Large hole in wall-2nd floor corridor. SAFETY HAZARD: Sofa placed in fire exit stairway blocking emergen~y exit. hazard evideilt. VANDALISM: Paint on student's car damaged (keyed). SECURITY HAZARD/FALSE ID: Student's car fotmd with car door opened. Student located~car okay. During incident false ID was observed and confiscated. Conduct Charge filed. ROBBERY: Visitor reported that she was ent6ting the campus gate to cut across 'campus when she was accosted from behmcl by a lone male suspect who took three from her hand. Victim used the emergency telephone to alert Campus. Safety. SPD was contacted. A suspect was located and initially identified by the victim. The victim later recanted the identification and the suspect was released. The victim was

'(l[qe C!Ion~o:rhien!lis • February 22, 1996 • Page 3 Campus News . . . . - 1996 - 1997 Budget financial aid which will encompass about 14,4 million dollars of allocated funds in the budget. Surprisingly, this is an 8.3 percent increase over last year's appropriation and it represents one of the largest allocations of funds in next years budget. When .asked iftbe College could sustain its growing commitments to fi- nancial aid Casey responded that it is sustainable. He explained that in an era of increased competition among colleges that it has become a reaUty ofthe col- lege cost scenario and that financial aid is a necessity. Surprisingly, next years budget recog- nized the need te increase faculty sala- . ries to a level that is more representative of what faculty at similar institutions re- ceive. Included in the budget will be a 3.25 percent increase in the salary pool, which .includes all the moneys that· are to be spent on faculty. According to Casey, this does not mean an automatic increase in salaries to all professors but rather an incre~e in the size of all the mon~y that is spent annually on salaries. In essence, all raises will be made on a case by case basis with emphasis on merit. With all these increases in expenditure many have begun to question the college's abilities to pay for all of its ex- penses. Of special importance is the ever growing financial aid budget which in a couple of years could easily become the largest part of the Union Col- lege budget. Secondly~ these increases in expenditure are being made with the help of what the college is calling the no layoffs policy. According to the President Hull, the Col- lege will not be in the position to lay off faculty or staff due to . financial constraints. The name of this policy is deceiving be- cause since 1990 the number of employees at the college has dropped from 732 to about 658 today. According, t9 Charlie Casey, none of these have heen layoffs but rather the decrease is due to retirement, resigna- tion and what the administration likes to call restructuri·ng. Restructuring basi .. cally means the consolidation of jobs and responsibilities. It has become a system- atic process in which the College exam- ines positions and determines whether or not the responsibilities could be con- solidated into one job. It is the restruc- turing of positions as vacancies appear as a result of retirement and resignation. Not included · in the budget for next year was the library and any new capital projects that were mentioned in the Stra- tegic Campus Plan (see January · 25 Concordiensis). Ac- cording to Casey, these tJrejects were not included because the College will make any new buildings or structures contin- gent on outside financial contribution. Apparently, the College is unwilling to dip into the already stnall endowment or risk borrowing the money from a finan- cial institution. The budget is clearly a reaffirmation of the College's mission and financial priorities, but it does raise new questions as to the future financial well being of Union. What concerns most students on this campus is tuition and financial aid. Tuition increased only slightly, but are these small increases sustainable or are we looking at much larger increases in the future? Secondly, the budget does not outline the future of financial aid as far as the College's ability to keep up with the demands of up. and coming freshman. Already the financial aid but is at 14.4 million and in the next five years it could easily become close to half of all the appropriated money in the bud- get. We can only hope that the Board of Trustees and President Hull are looking at the long term health of the College and not only at short term gains. , -----. From Russia With Love ' ~ . t ~ • ' ' • . • ~ I was born in Minsk, tlie capital of his foundation for economic research and bassy prqmjs~d to introduce me to th~ fa- Belarus, and raised in the United States. I development rested within the Academy mous rriovie director/actor Nikita left Russia when I was about two years old. walls. Gorbachev struck me as a charis- Mihalkov. Mihalkov won the Oscar for Ihaye.beenbackfivetimesduringthecom- maticandprofessionaldiplomat. Although best foreign picture of the year in 1994, munist regime ~d each time the conditions he spoke softly, his words were very pow- for his movie Wearied by the Sun. One struck me as bejng more oppressive and .erful. In m,y opinion, he was the only So- day I received passes to hear him lecture grey. fu 1994,Iretumed to Russia as part viet leader who ever conveyed an air of at the Moscow Film Academy, however of an exchange e d u c a- this was canceled because he was filming program. This . tion and on location in Prague. rtost hope in ever time my expe- cultur'e getting to meet Nikita Mihalkov. Three rience in. the in his weeks b~fore.ieaving M~sc~~ fo~ g~od, I former Soviet politics. planned to travel to Greece with the Union was T h e Deputy Chief of Mission and other at- both intellectu- Russian taches. The airi>ort in Moscow was closed ally and cultur- people, for eighteen hours due to technical diffi- ally enlighten- h o w - culties ·at the control tower. It was a hot ing. This new e v e r , day in May, so I decided to wait outside. post-commu- h a t e While standing in a reserved parking zone, nist CO'Untry, him, and a jeep nearly ran me over. I jumped out of m a r k e t b 1 a m e the way and began to have a few words e con om y , him for with the driver. Shortly thereafter, a tall, Russia was t h e i r very well dressed man stepped out from now a society h a r d - which boasted s h i p . personal freedoms. Itwas far better than I They believe his Perestroika reforms com- could have imagined. pletely stunted the growth of the average My first three weeks were very difficult. Soviet. I had to do my laundry in the sink, and A typical day at the Academy for me be- wait on line for food. I lived in a hotel/ gan at 8:30. However, there were three apartment. I was very happy with my liv- · sessions, a moming, an afternoon, and an the passenger side. He was wearing sun- glasses, and as he approached me I real- ized it was Nikita Mihailkov, the director. After talking to him about his movies, I told him that the airport was closed, due to . technical troubles. He invited me to have a few drinks with him. I gladly accepted, and in the VIP lounge we sat, drank, and · chatted for an hour.' Whati adrllite inost . !!bout Nikit~ Mihalkov is not hi~ O~car, bpt ' -. \ • • . ' ~ . . l .... . - • ' rather hts portrayal of the harshness of his countiy and its corruption, as well as the beauty and culture. My main intention in writing this article is to emphasize the importance of a term abroad. You have the chance to get a taste of different lifestyles, customs, and more importantly you meet interesting people. Union College gave me one component of a liberal education, my term abroad ex- panded my liberal outlook beyond the college's and country's gates. ing quarters. I had a spacious one-bed- evening session in which students attended room, with a terrace, and a refiigerator. class. Russian students listen to 3 or 4 During the Communist Era, students from lectures a day, and for each lecture they Cuba were housed in this building. It was listen to, they follow up with a class in remodeled and refurnished, and serves as which the professor tests them on what they a hotel for students whose parents are will- have just learned. The courses were mostly ing to pay for their sons and daughters to finance related. For instance, the Russian live in better conditions. The typical Rus- Banking System, Accounting, History of sian dorm was not remotely as pleasant. Economic Thought, From Kievski-Rus- to The floors were old, the beds were like the present day Russia, etc. Each lecture cots, the bathrooms were unsanitary, and had about 50 students present. COME ITO MOJO PIITO FOR SUPER SAVIGSI the further one went from Moscow, the I knew I would be going to Russia, so I conditions were only worse. I also lived applied for a job with the Secret Service a in a great location, which was only fifteen year before going to Russia. After inten- minutes from Red Square. sive background checks and secret clear- I went to normal classes with Russian ance, I was told that upon arrival in Mas- students and did not have to go through cow, I would begin my appointment. I special language instruction, which made worked at the Regional Security Office for my experiences more real. I studied at the the Secret Service. I provided support ser- Moscow Finance Academy which housed vice during the Clinton/Gore/Christopher prominent Russian economists, and the visits throughout the year, as well as gen- headquarters of the lntematienal Monetary eral security service for the embassy. I also Fund (IMF). I sat in on many IMF meet- provided translation services. I worked ings in which loan dispersals were dis- throughout the year in Russia while study- cussed. I was afforded the opportunity to ing. meet Fottiler President Gorbachev, since One day, the cultural attache at the em- lffliDU- 1041IIIIIItNII --1771 ! ONE HOUf7 . , ! MOTOPHOTO

Campus News Engineer's Week: A Tribute to Schenectady's Own George Westinghouse by Professor Frank Wicks Mechanical Engineering was the air brake that is still used on trains and trucks throughout the world. During his next 49 years he was This is Engineer's Week in which the awarded360patentsandfotmded60com- accomplishments and challenges of the panies with more than 50,000 employees. engineering profession are presented in His first inventions modernized and en- various forums. This is also the 150th an- hanced the safety of railroads. He then niversary of the birth of George pioneered natural gas pipe lines, the tete- Westinghouse Jr, who was recognized as phone switch board, the modem altemat- the greatest living engineer during his life ing current electric power system that may time, and could well be judged as the great- well be used for the duration .of civiliza- est engineer who ever lived. tion, the turbines to drive these genera- His father was a Vermont born fanner tors and the large reduction gears required who was becoming a successful inventor to make turbines efficient for ships. and manufacturer of farm machinery when He was a high achiever with a social he moved his factory to the transportation purpose. The marker at his birth home in strategic banks of the Erie Canal in nearby Central Bridge says \If someday Schenectady in 1856 when young George they say of me that in my work I have was 10 years old. Similar to the earlier contributed something to the welfare and cotton gin of Eli Whitney that revolution- happiness of tny fellow men, I shall be ized the textile industry, the thresliingma- satisfied.\ chines that were made in the father's fac- Along with fame as an engineer, inven- torywouldhelpmodernizeandrevolution- tor, and industrialist, George ize agriculture by mechanizing the process Westinghouse was recognized for his fair- of separating the wheat. grain from the ness, integrity, and character. An example chafe. ofhis fame is indicated by the It was in his father's panic in the life insurance in- Schenectady factory that dustry in 1905. Three inde- made small steam engines pendent trustees with high along with the threshing public recognition ~md trust machines that young were to be named as over- George learned design, in- seers. A newspaper dispatch to vention, personnel relations, Europe announced the trustees business management, as Grover Cleveland, follller- metal working and market- President of the United States, ing, along with doing his Morgan O'Brian, Justice of first experiments with elec- the Supreme Court of New tricity. York, and George In 1860 Abraham Lincoln George Westinghouse, age Westinghouse. The name of was elected President caus- 18, just after.,enroJI~n~ i~ ~G~orge Wesf~n~hou~e- wa~ ing the great rebellion start- the Union army and ju!d sqfficient without any further ing at Fort Sumter. George ·prior to enrolling at Union titles or description. and his older brothers John College He also served as a Presi- and Albert enlisted in the Union forces. dent of the American Society ofMechani- Albert was killed in battle. George Jr cal Engineers. The great electrical engi- served ftrst in the anny and then in the navy neer Nikola Tesla eulogized him as \a as a shipboard engineering officer while giant when confronted with difficulties he continued to design.a better steam en- that seemed insurmountable; one who en- gine. joyed the struggle and never lost confi- At the end of the Civil Wiir, dence. When others would give up in de- Westinghouse enrolled at Union College spair, he triumphed. Had he been trans- where hP. demonstrated a flair for math- ferred to another planet with everything ematics and drawing, and an impatience against him, he would have worked out to get things done. The eighteen year old his salvation.\ in 1865 might be compared with eighteen While George Westinghouse was of- year old Bill Gates at Harvard in 1975 as fered much public recognition during his they both saw technological revolution, lifetime, it is an indication of his affec- and they were anxious to participate. tions that the only honorary degree he George received his first patent on an im- accepted was from Union College in proved rotary steam engine and after one Schenectady in 1890. When; his brothers tenn returned to work with his father. John and Jay continued to operate their His next two inventions resulted from father's factory. Union College is now witnessing two train accidents between making plans for an exhibit in the Nott Schenectady, Albany and Troy. The first Memorial to help honor his great life and was a derailed car replacer and the next achievements on this 150th anniversary of his birth. Botrelle Shot! COPIAH COUNTY, Mississippi-· Senator Zachery Botrell e, the richest and most powerful man in all of Hazelhurst, was allegedly shot in the stomach. by his wife, Rebecca \Babe\ Botrelle (nee Magrath). The accused, Mrs. Botrelle, phoned the hospital yesterday afternoon and reported that her husband had been shot and there was a lot of blood. When authorities arrived at the scene, they found the Botrelles in their parlor and one untouched glass of freshly made, very strong lemonade on the sideboard just within the victim's reach. Babe Botrelle turned herself in on the spot and the senator was rushed to the hospital. Botrelle's liver has been saved and his breathing has stabilized, but doctofs have yet to determine the damage to the spinal column. When questioned repeat- edly, the victim's wife offered no explanation except: \I didn't like his looks. I just didn't like his looks.\ SPECIAL ADVERTISEMENT Beth Henley's Crimes of the Heart runs February 28- March 2 and Mar-ch · 6-9 at the Yulman Theatre. Box Office phone x6545. Wantedlll Individuals, Student Organizations to Promote SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS CALL INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS http://www. icpt. com 1-800-327-6013 Outdoor Gear 8 Clothing Fleece Clothing Backpacks Biking Boots Tents Rain wear Outerwear Sleeping Bags Campiag Supplies Climbing Equipment Peace Corps at Union College Q . ~ \ . -rffliSii'~ For 35 Years Over 140,000 Peace Corps Volunteers Have Put Their Idealism into Action. Now it's Your Turn. For more info call: 1-800-424-8580, Ext. 1 College Rings Newest Styles! Any College Any Year! 3 Week Delivery. Now Available Direct by Accessing our Web site on the internet. Fully Guarenteed, Great Prices. Come Visit our site and order your College Class Ring. http :1/www .collegerings. net Or phone us at (718) 443-4260

The Ascendance ofCELA by BraQdon D. J)eclet Staff Writer Over the past few years, it has become increasingly evident that Latino students on campus have· not been represented properly ,in campus politics. CELA is the newest club on campus and it is also the first organization that actively represents the views, in .. terests, and concems ·of Latino stUdents. The \Circulo Estudiantil Latino American()\ (CELA) is an organization geared towards issues pertaining to cur .. tently matriculatecl students at Union College ofLatin American descent. 'The mission of CELA is to erihiplce and increase 1he di~ versified atmosphere of the col- lege community in order to prop- erly represent Latin American cultures. In an exclusive interview with the Concordiensis, Elissa Gonzalez and Vincent Lepez, both on the executive board of CELA, expressed the reasons why this club was fonned. Ellissa Gonzalez stated, \Latinos in the past have not been represented sufficiently.\ As most students know, ALAS, the African and Latino Alliance of Students was created t() r¢present both the interests of Latino and African- American students, but recent actions by the group including the blatant under-representation of Latinos .has led to the formation of CELA. According to Francisco Mu.noz, an active member of CELA, \The formation of a Latino organization has been in the minds of Latino students for . well over ten years.\ In the minds ~ gfmany Latino students on .cam~ pus, this .is not a break up of ALAS, but rather a new organi- zation tha,Hs completely separate andrepresents completely differ- ent goals. '\(CELAwasfounded), not to create controversy, but ratber to service our people,\ ac- cording to Munoz, Unfortunately, the fonnatic;>n of this group has caused an unex- pected political response from not only the. members ofthe Student Forum but ALAS. For Elissa Go~alez and Vincent Lopez the reaction has come as a complete surprise since according tQ them only four members of CELA overlap as far as membership with ALAS is concerned and they see ALAS as .strictly a.group that rep- resents the views of. African- Americans on campus. Vincent Lopez, treasurer of CELA, put it simply by stating that, \ALAS is a .Black Student Union.\ The feel- ings of the executive board of CELA have been particularly . . strong when it comes to the resis- tance put forth by ALAS andthe Student Forum. It was clear throughout the in- terview that over the years Latino students have simply become dis- enchanted with what they see as an .attempt by ALAS ·to under- represent and \shut down\ the voiQes o£ Latino students who were members of ALAS. Ac.- cording to Elissa Gonzalez, she was told froin the c\in'ent co-chair of ALAS, Usley Douglas, as say 8 ing .that ''Latino students foteed us to ha,ve one African-American and one L!ltino chair. If this is the case, than CELA has not only become a necessity fot cuttent Latino students but clearly there is a feeling aiilong ALAS mem- bers that Latino students may not be as Welcetne as they once were. \The Victor Owusu and Frank Attah intimidation tag team tried to intimidate a Latino brother iike myself, hut it didn't work! Ittook two and a half years for me to be a part of an organization that rep- resents Latino culture and aware .. ness,\ according to Vincent Lopez. Clearly, the feelings run deep and strong and this energy is being put into activities that in the coming months will show that CELA, though a new organiza- tionwill fast become a large voice on campus. Yet, they have made it clear .that this new organization is \not a subsidiary or branch of ALAS, it is a separate organiza- tion with its own goals and ob- jectives,\ according to Alexis Fernandez .. · In the coming months, CELA will sponsor speakers, educa- tional workshops, career fairs, as well as to provide a forum for the issues that Latino students find important. Thanks to a small group ofbold studentsCELA will grow. Their motto, \Waking Up . the Sleeping Giant. It's About .Time\ Sharlet Speaks about his Experiences Playing the Washington Game by Michelle Ellis News .Editor The Political Science De- partment and the Union Col- lege community welcomed back a distinguished col- league, Professor Robert Shatlet, on Thursday Febru- ary 15. Professor Sharlet ad- dressed a small audience in the R~amer Campus Center Au<;titorium a:bout his two yeat ~xperience in Washing- ' ton, D.C .. Sharlet left Union in De- cember of 1993 to take part in a unique government pro- gram. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, federal agencies in Washington be- came involved in assisting the former s-oviet Republics reinvent themselves a free states. As an expert in So- viet Law, Sharlet was asked to join the Rule of Law Project in Washington, DC. He served as the Co-Chair of a major international effort by the U.S. government and the American legal commu- nity to help bring law and civic order to the republics of the former Soviet Union. Sharlet worked to create new ideas for legal procedures and conduct in the new republics. He traveled extensively be- tween the republics and Wash- ington, meeting with foreign ambassadors and government officials to establish new legal norms. He supervised many U.S. judges, lawyers, and schol- ars as they worked with their counterparts in the FoFmer So- viet Union to implement a new legal system and a new market economy. During his presentation, Sharlet spoke of his encounter with the complex foreign aid game that exists in Washington. He witnessed how former Cold War agencies, such as the Agency of International Devel- opment (AID) were becoming obsolete in the 1990's as the U.S. decreased its commitment to foreign aid. He indicated that the State Department and the Senate Appropriations Commit· tee are the most important play- ers in the foreign aid game to- day. When discussing the foreign aid game he spoke of the com- petitors of the Rule of Law Committee. Sharlet stated that the \Washington game is all about money. The law of large sums exists.\ He ex .. plained that everyone in Washington knew that his organization had the mo_ney and he commented that, \like bees to honey, they wanted a piece of it.\ Sharlet told his audience that groups like the American Bar Association and the FBI tried to get in on the foreign aid game. Sharlet commented on his personal frustrations with Congress. He stated that Congress established diffi- cult expectations for the Rule of Law Agency. He stated the Rule of Law works to create ideas and orientations for the new republics but it . can not create immediate change. \The agancy put down good seed and now it has to be cultivated and nur- tured.\ He emphasized that he is hopeful that positive change will prevail in the former Soviet Union. Sharlet will be teaching Soviet and Russian Politics this spring. After his expe- riences in Washington and in the Former Soviet Union, . you can be sure that his course will be incredible. C;1mpus News UNION HOSTS CONGRESSMAN McNULTY by Jody Mousseau Co'!tributing Writer . On Friday, February 16, Congressman Michael McNulty, a fre- quent guest of Union College, spoke in the College Center audito- rium conce111ing the effect of Middle Eastern affairs on American politics. The guest speaker was hosted by the Jewish Student Union, AIP AC(A:merican Israel Public Affairs Committee), and the campus Young Democrats. Congressman McNulty .fs the representative of the 21st district of New York and presently serves on the House Ways and Means Committee. McNulty touched on many issues relevant to contemporary Middle Eastern affairs. He discussed relations between Syria and Israel and Israel's persistence in protecting its state. In several instances, he referred to the 'miracle. of Israel.' Throughout its history, Israel has been out-manned and out-gunned in many instances of confronta- tion. McNulty stated that because of these factors, it is surprising that Israel has survived since 1948. However; Israel remains a strong ally of the United States. On :six occasions McNulty has visited Israel. Another primary topic of discussion was tbe Golan Heights issue. McNulty explained the United States Congress' involvement in the matter, and the continuing question of ceding back the Golan. Dur- ing his speech and in the following question and answering session, he commented that it is unfairtbat some members of the U.S. govern- ment believe that they can take the situation into their own hands and detenninewho should control the Golan. When asked if the U.S. should intervene in the continuing affairs of the Golan, he stated that it would be unfavorable to place American troops there, although there is never a problem in assembling a peace-keeping effort. McNulty also noted that significant progress has been made in hotspots worldwide, in- cluding Israel. McNulty's concern with the future ofthe Middle East is reflected in his recent decision to co-sponsor legislation which will counter Iran's .growing nuclear capabilities. Through this legislation, a com- prehensive embargo will be instated with the exception ofhumanitar- ian supplies. Though the speech and discussion lasted short of an hour, the vari- ety of topics discussed were informative and there was much partici- pation on the part ofthe student body. With the changing status of the affairs ofthe Middle East, and the interest on caiilpus in Israeli poli- tics, we hope to have more events relevant to the topic in the future. ;Smith House: The Last Bastion of Intellectualism in a Sea of Apathy by Jesse Karotkin Contributing Writer This term, Smith House has embarked on a dinner series which brings students and faculty together in a relaxed, comfortable en- vironment. So far, the dinner series, which is sponsored by a PEW grant, has been phenomenal. Professor Byron Nichols (chair of the Political Science department) kicked offthe series on January 25 with a discussion about \Generation X\. Professor Nichols focused on the moral dilemmas our generation will inevitably face. The following Thursday, Smith House was joined by visiting pro- fessor Jeanette Springer (Women's Studies). Professor Springer, who teaches in Barbados, intrigued her audience, reading 1 itera- ture from the Caribbean. This past week, professor John Horton from the Biology department led a discussion on \genetic engi- neering\. The discussion aroused both skepticism and hopes of promise for the future. Sitting down for dinner with a faculty member and other stu- dents is one of the many advantages of theme house life. The setting encourages dialogue. It also exposes students to various disciplines which they may not study. The crowd which is drawn to Thursday dinners at Smith includes a fairly wide variety of stu- dents from both on and off campus. As a group, they challenge the notion that Union students are apathetic. Each Thursday, the residents of Smith House or \Smithies\ as they sometimes call themselves, cook a group dinner. In keeping with the group's ideology, dinners are always open to everyone on campus. The administration's refusal to restore the oven (which once occupied the kitchen) setves as a greatobstacle for the house. The absence of a stove makes it impossible for Smith House to offer dinner to a larger segment of the student body. Despite such limited resources, the Smithies use their ingenuity to create din- ners which Professor Scullian describes as, \ ... Yummy\. Short- age of food is rarely a problem. For those who don't already know, Smith House is located between AD and Sig Phi. They provide a wide range of social alternatives throughout the year, and they're really a good group of people. Stop by and see them sometime. For more information on Smith House, or upcoming events call Jesse or Alan @. 5948.

World News Gulf Wars: Episode V The Dictator Strikes Backs by Matt Sandler World News Editor It is five years since the Gulf War, and still Saddam Hussein remains a thorn in the world's side. The simple rernark said is \Well the United States had the opportunity to take out Saddam, and did not, we blew it.\ This statements is ignorant in the sense it omits certain revelant facts. While it is true that George Bush compared Saddam with Adolf Hitler , hoped Saddam would be over- thrown after the war, and con- ducted a strategic mistake when the Allies allowed Saddam to fly armed helicopters away from Coalition troops after the war. inside I~aqi territory, which Saddarn used to crush the Kurd upri~ing in the North, and the Shi '.ite uprising in the South. The;iraqi military lead- ers, some 0f them sympathetic to the reb~llion, made the deci- sion to rally around Saddam f Husseiqiwhen the United States did no( do anything to further the rebellion along. The result was no fly zones, which are still patrolled by the United States and other nation's aircrafts, protecting these persecuted people, and a constant irritation by Saddarn. lbe above is a very condensed history of the situa- tion. The fact of the matter is that the United States could not let tht; Iraq government collapse. Saddam Hussein was targeted with specially made bombs dur- ing the war, there is no ques- tion about that, but after the war, he could not fall. Why? First of all, a collapse of Saddam Hussein, who is a dic- tator, would mean the collapse of Iraq, a situation that Iran might use to its advantage. Iran and Iraq fought for eight long years between 1980-1988, and the war's memories die hard. The United States would see a move on Iraq by Iran as a spear- head into the Middle East, just like Shi'ite revolts against Gulf states are supported by Iran to- day. Islamic Fundamentalism sweeping the Gulf is anathema to U.S. strategic interests. Fur- thermore, the Kurds in the North of Iraq, are a displaced people. They have no home- land. Presently they are in Tur- key and concentrated in north- ern Iraq. If Saddam collapsed and a Kurdish state was set up, it would lend credence to the revolt in Turkey by the Kurds; a situation. Turkey is very con- cerned about. Recently, the Turks have raided North.ern Iraq with a massive military invasion t0 quash Kurdish rebels. Turkey, who is a mem- ber of NATO, would not look kindly to the U.S. support of Kurds rebelling in Iraq. All these factors had to be pro- cessed into the equation, and the total of these inputs led the United States to withhold sup- port for the rebellion. Still, Saddam continues to strike. When, and where will be his next cause for bellicose, .and then retreat is open to ques- tion? These pinprick maneu- vers are designed to wear on the United States' patience .. Saddrun thinks that it will not be worth it to send American Anny units, Marines, Special Operation Forces, F-15 squad- rons, and naval units steaming for the Persian Gulf. There is .a good chance, given this is an election year, that Saddam will test U.S. resolve again. As it is there are 20,000 American personnel in the Gulf, most are sailors on ships stationed there. The United States has Marines stationed there too, mostly on offshore ships, and has pre-po- sitioned flotillas which hold equipment. Kuwait has up to 5,000 pieces of armored equip- ment, and in the Gulf region there are 200 advanced fighter aircraft. As credible as this force is, it is an ad hoc arrangement. Ad hoc in the sense that it is a pres- ence, but if a m<Uor event oc- curs, massive infusion of troops would take time to alter the ini- tiatives brought against our al- lies. The best defense of Saudi Arabia, and the other pro-west countries, is an offensive de- ployment. Instead of reacting to situations already underway, an offensive deployment wou~d stop the event just as it getting started with punishing air and land attacks. It is time that CENTRAL COMMAND (CENTCOM), have command at its region of operation, in- stead of the command structure in the United States, with a core force of American, British, and Middle East nation forces sta- tioned permanently there. The bases are in place in Saudi Arabia, we ate talking about forward offensive positions, ready to move against a hostile invader. The strategy should be an inverted arc, a lockout arc, with bases in Jordan, through Saudi Arabia, and Kuwait where the concentration of forces would be. Due to Arab sensitivity, these positions can not be overtly American, but a mixture of Arab and then American soldiers and equip- ment. In Kuwait the United States can station any amount of troeps there, within reason of course, given what America did to liberate their country. The Arc strategy would require the doctrine of the best defense is a strong offense to deter th:reats. This strategy can be done so long as the United States respects Arab culture and does not show arrogance, but peers for defense, This is not an American invasion. The Arabs would know that, but what they would be concerned about is a cultural invasion. This is what must be overcome. The Middle Eastern nations can take the lead, with the backbone of the security structure, the American military. Titis is all designed to pre- vent Saddam ftom striking out again. Furthennore, this pres- ence will increase security for the peace process and peace al- ready made, and it will contain and cement the further isolation of Iraq and Iran, two regional powers who represent the threat to the Middle East. Further- more, a strengthened regional presence will protect countries internalJy. Saudi Arabia, is the backbone of the Middle East. If that country falls, oil would be in danger. OPEC would be more powerful, and a domino effect with Islamic Fundamen- talism could grip the region. Islamic Fundamentalist's are already attacking the govern- ment of Saudi Arabia. A se- cure presence can help alter the tide oflslamic Fundamentalism gripping Saudi Arabia. Have no illusions about it, the United States has an unwritten secu- rity guarantee with Saudi Arabia, the United States will invade Saudi Arabia to prevent Islamic Fundamentalism from taking hold. The royal family is being criticized for corrup- tion, Saudi Arabia has a huge budget deficit, and therefore people will start hitting crunch zones, where Islamic Funda- mentalism can fester and grow. Most people did not see Iran's fall until it was too late; will it happen in Saudi Arabia? The fear is that if the United States does not strengthen its presence in the region, American efforts will be too late to tum that tide. An Alternate Point of View by Anand }lao World News Staff I understand that what you are about to read may seem painfrdly idealistic and totally out oftouch witbreality, butmy hope is that progres can be made so that this idea no longer seems so ridiculous. After all, two hundred years ago in 1796, the idea that institutionalized sl~very ought to be abolished on moral grounds was largely dis,.. missed as a fantasy which ig- nored the economic necessities of the time. Today, however, slavery is universally recog- nized as a horrible and dehu- manizing institution which de- serves to be pennanently ban- ished from human society. In this enlightened age, we have come to realize the immorality of certain things which had pre- viously persisted in all parts of the world for centuries. In the twenty-first centuJy, I can an- ticipate the day when th~ insti- tution .of war will finally fall victimto our increased wisdom. The events of the twentieth century have largely discredited war and military expenditures as an effective tool of the state. We still have more than three years left in this century, but there can be no doubt that the last ninety-six years have been the most destructive in the his- tory of human civilization. Why the cause for war? Be- cause politicians and business- men see a benefit. As a conse- quence, more than fifty million people have been killed in twentieth-century wars. Lenin was right whert he called the First World War an imperialist war. Since 1918, not one per- son has been able to prove that the bloodbath which enveloped Europe in the second decade of this century was worth a single human life. In America today, there is a growing awareness of the fact that war is counterproductive, and that it is no longer accept- able for our nation to be the primary source of military weap.ons for the rest of the world. There is a large idealist constituency that objects to paying taxes on the grounds that their tax dollars provide funds for the military. Most however, are not apart of this consitituency. The military-industrial complex continues to persist as one of the leading forces in our economy. It is estimated that for much of the post-1945 era, the United States supplied more than seventy percent of all the world's militruy weapons, and we are still far and away the single largest producer of weapons that end up in abyss of conflict. A lot of the men and women in Cong~e·s's support this current situation, believing that a. person who earns $15 an hour assembling rocket launch,.. ers in a government-subsidized factory operated by Boeing or . Lockheed Martin cannot worry about the consequences of his actions on the job. If the weap• ons assembled by a factory worker in southern California are used to inflict unspeakable pain and suffering upon civil- ians in Africa or Asia, then so be it. As an optimist, this is where I believe the transformation is taking place in American thinking. Even the workers in the weapons factories may be starting to wonder about the potentially destructive conse- quences of their labor, even if that labor pays $15 an hour. The military-industrial com- plex may be a force which em- ploys millions of Americans . , but is it morally correct for the world's leading power to pro- vide employment for its own people while fanning the flames of chaos and anarchy through- out the rest of the world? Largely because of the United States, the Middle East is the world's most heavily milita- rized region, and it is just wait- ing to explode at any moment. American citizens won't have to look far to find out who is at fault when the rest of the world goes up in flames. Like slavery, I hope that the idea of setting aside a large quantity of the national budget for military purposes will soon lose its legitimacy in this coun- try. Slavery in America has been further discredited by the fact that the curtent economies of Mississippi, Georgia, and Alabama are infinitely more prosperous today than they were when slavery was a seem- ingly indispensable institution. Who knows howprosperous the United States may become if it does not have to devote more than $250 billion per year to military expenditures. The United States in 1865 was among the last of the inde- pendent countries in the world to take the step of abolishing slavery. In the next century, maybe the United States can redeem itself by being first among nations in renouncing theuse of the military-industrial complex as a tool of sustaining its economic prosperity.

Page 7 February 22, 1996 'aJ:qe C!Ioncttrbienltlis t - \ International: * The fragile movement to- wards peace in North em Ire- land is just that, with the re- cent bombing by the Irish Republican Army of an East London neighborhood. * Prime Minister Shimon Peres confrrmed his inten• pon to hold early national . elections where the main issues will be the peace pro- cess and the personalities of the candidates. * Palestinian police barred Israelis from Bethlehem and the main road going through it to the. southern West Bank today to protest Israeli security measures at a Jewish pilgrimage site. * Yasir Arafat took the oath of office as the first leader of the Palestinian's self-rule. * Forty-five anned Japanese troops arrived at Kaouar Camp to be part of the Golan ildg'hts · p~acekeep·- · ing' mission to work in a lo- gistics unit separating Syr- ian and Israeli forces. * Cat bombs in Alsiers, Al- geria, killed 17 and wounded 93. One bomb was directed at the Algerian newspaper Le Soir d' Algerie and offices of sev- eral independent joumalists and photographers, and an- other bomb was directed at a fortified city office· build· ing. * A bomb exploded in the lobby of a luxury seafront hotel in Bahrain, and an Is- lamic organization claimed responsibility. The blast came on the heels of anti- Government hostility, cen- tered in the fmancial hub in the Persian Gulf, and the site of an important Ameri- can Navy base. * After Bosnian Serb mili- tary leaders said they sus- pended all contacts with the NATO-led force and the United Natiqns, the Bosnian Serb political leadership said they will keep ties to the NATO force. * A representative of the In- ternational Committee of the Red Cross said that most of the Muslims and Croats performing forced labor in Serb..:held areas of Bosnia have been freed. * Assistant Secretary of State Richard Holbi'ooke said that he won commit- ments from President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia and President Alija Iz~tbegovi9 of Bosnia to 1 • 1 a'bide by the Dayton acqord despite thd rift over the de- te~tion of Serb military of- ' fleers by the Bosnian Mus- lims,. \Tht: Rule of the Road\. according to Mr. Holbrooke is that the: arrest of suspected war crimiruUs will only be conducted against a list that the Hague International War Crimes Tribunal compiles. * The Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan at- tended a rally marking the 17th anniversary of the Is- lamic revolution in Tehe- ran, Iran. * South Korean .groups in Seoul, South Korea,. are protesting the Japanese claims to Islands in the Sea of Japan. The newspapers ran pictures with a Korean natidnal flag flying over the Tokdo islands, which are barren rocks in the Sea of Japan with few permanent residents. The islands, 450 miles northwest of Tokyo and 3.00 miles east of Se.oul, are called Tal<eshima by Japan. * U.S. '}:'r.a.de :RFprese.J?.ta- tive, Mickey Kantor, sai<!. tha~a permanent agreemen~ with Russia was reached to prevent imports of cheap Russian handguns into the United States. Armor- piercing ammunition is prohibited by the agree- ment. In addition, the U.S. can limit the volume of imports to protect domes- · tic security. Nation: *Election 1996: Bob Dole scored a \win-loss\ in the Iowa Caucuses with 26 percent, to Patrick J. Buchanan's second place win with 23 percent, t~ Lamar Alexander's strong surge at 18 percent. Malcolm Steve Forbes Jr. came in with a flat 10 per- cent. Phil Gramm came in with 9 percent and with= drew, Alan Keyes with 7 percent, Richard Lugar at4 percent. Robert K. Dornan at less than l percent, and Morry Taylor at I percent. * Detentions are up at the U.S.-Mexican border, but, with the single minded pur- pose to get across at any cost, many are still suc- ceeding. * A study reports that al- most 40 percent of black men in their 20's in Cali- fornia are imprisoned or on probation or parole on any given day. By contrast, the report said that only 5 per- cent of the white men in CaEfornia in their 20's and 11 percent of the Hispanic men of that age group were in the criminal system last year. A lot of politicians and academics are looking into the problem. Michelle Neier World JVews Staff - Governor George E. Pataki refused to pass a plan which would allow commercial logging i.n Alleghany State Park. Governor Patois' revised plan would not allow any management logging ei- ther. This type of logging takes into consideration which species live in which area.s. - Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons has been billed $3.7 million by New York City. The university has a contract to provide medical services at Harlem Hospi- tal. An andit of the school however found that there was a large amount of money which was fraudu- lently billed, misspent or unaccounted for. - Mayor Rudolph Guiliani' s new budget is continuing with his forced savings hi the city agencies, given the magnitude of the deficit. He is. determined to save $500 million in cnts to agen- cies, despite his promise not to make urtifonn cuts. - In Washington, Medicaid and welfare proposals were passed which provided a great fiscal package for New York State. The proposals allow for greater decision making by the state as op- posed to Washington. This would be especially helpful in New York because ofthe large numbers of people liv- ing in poverty. . ; f: World News - The New York board of Regents passed new guide- lines to increase the level of instruction. The new guide- lines were supposedly de- signed to prepare students for the tougher Regents ex- ams which will be intro- duced soon. The new tests will place emphasis on criti- cal thinking rather than pure root memorization. World News Ques- tion of the Week: Do you feel confi- dent about tbe fu- ture? Is America on the \Right Track\ or are way off where we should be? Where in fact, should we be?

Is the Economy heading for a recession? by Akin Sawyy~r Staff Writer It is no secrete that the economy is slowing down, but not many people know that the economy might actually be heading for a recession. The vast majority of economists be- lieve that the Economy wicll show a meager one percent growth in the January-March quarter. A one feeling the pains of not being able to meet up to their antici- pated goals due to the delays caused by the weather. The par- tial government shutdown and the budget problems have cre- ated a lot of economic uncer- tainty. Businesses and big in- vestors are more risk conscious because they do not want to make decisions that seem good on a given day, and bad after the government does or doesn't do something they expected. percent growth is only half of what is needed to keep the na- tion from experi- encing an infla- tion. Although only a few Economists think the coun- · try will go intg a recession, their prediction should raise a lot ofquestions. A recession would ChafllioiFIOiil · PreVIoul Mo!llh Unemploy- ment is another component that has contributed to the economy's woes. The labor department re- ported last week that first-time claims for unem- ployment benefits surged by an un- expectedly high o.c .......... ,,.. +2.1% Nov .............. -(1.1 Ool .............. -1.& be obviously baa for everyone, but it will be especially detri- mental to president Clinton?.s re•, election campaign. The blizzard of '96 and the partial government shutdown are two of several factors that can be blamed for the situation the country if facing economically. The snowstorms have hampered the flow ofbusiness in the coun~ try. A lot of people stay home on the weekends rather than go shopping, due to the bad weather. Businesses are also 21,000. This surge brought the number of claims being filed to ''a·fourye!!-I\highof3 .. ~e hike in unemployment ·claims clearly shows that the labor mar- ket is deteriorating. Other re- ports from the Federal Reserve bank of Philadelphia and the government show that there is a shorter workweek, a drop in two (undisclosed) price indexes to 28-year lows. \1'Umost every sec- tor of the economy is showing signs that the economy might be heading for a recession if the Upper Flat For Rent 853 NOTT ST Across the street from the Colege Day Care Center Fully furnished 4 Bedrooms each w/ cable Kit, LR, DR, Bath and Pantry Laundry Facilities Dishwasher Front and Back Portch Plenty of Closet Space Very Secure Neighborhood 1800 sq. ft. Jiving space l. year lease, 7/1/96 - 6/30/97 $750.00 +utilities Biggest fla.t in Union area: Pets Negotiable· CALL:· 872-0672 AFTER 6:00 PM ·Tired of Dorm Life·? ,. If you would like to live in your own apart- . ment, but wonder ifyou can afford it, we should talk. Affordable 2- family, V G condition, live in one rent the other situation doe$ not improve. Optimistic analysts disregard the figures presented by the gov- ernment. These analysts say the figJJres presented by the govern- ment are too old sumer spending accounts for The National Association of two-thirds of the nationaloutput. manufacturers want to advocate A reduction in consumer spend- a relaxation of their monetary ingcould hold economic growth · ·. policy in order to lessen the ef- to below par or even, bring on a fe.cts of this years sluggish recession. An growth. and inaccurate. They say the figures are dis .. torted and do not provide enough insight. Analysts give examples like the bunching of orders of air- craft as erratjc components be .. cause it in- fa~tory Orders Mailufacturets'total new orders. · seasonally adjusted: $310 IJI!bon ~· . · .. lltUtlfJ 1 'i·?i-; ilii. \. [jt ft ,~,. o, .............. . 200 240 230 .OtJD JFMAMJJASONO 1994 199& volves a prod- ~ . .lur~...s (·'utii/Ht'IIC'tflldpar]u}t}nl uct that may not 111~ New Yul1l Tunc~ ABC-Money magazine survey showed that con- sumer confidence is gradually fall- ing. The National Association· of Home ·buil:ders ·reported a decline in the sale ofnew and old homes. ·. The a:ssociation also has·beenex- p erienchig··· .a .d~- There are many contradictory reports from different sources that express optimism and doubt. Sgme people say that the economy is just slowing down a little, while others believe we may go into a recession. · The discrepancy in the way various economic authorities see the economic situation may be con- tributing to the problem with the economy. The fact that various sides are taking one of many possible positions means that no be produced for while. Discounting military and· aircraft orders, economists at Merill Lynch noted that indus- tries manufacturing durable goods saw fewer orders in De- cember and many of them posted declines in November as well. The importance of the economic slow-down has carried over to the presidential car;npaign. Senator Bob Dole .and .rat Buchanan have' expressed their concern on the issue. They are both focusing on pgcketbook concerns in their bid for the re,. publican nomination. cline 4n mortgage applications for home purchaSes. . body knows for sure where the , economy is heading. Until recently, many of the signs of a weakening economy had been offset by a seund per- formance in manufacturing. But consumers are beginning to show more pessimism. Con- \I believe tltat tile excelle11t reputation of Unio11 's MBA nrnornm coupled witlt a very effective i11terns/tip program, · enabled me to secure a positio11 witll Coopers & Lybrand a full year before graduation. \ Starra Cahan Sherrin, BSMath, 1994, MBA 1995 World famous PSYCHIC to stars and celebrities--35 .years experi- ence--can! help you to obtain love, health, wealth and luck. Tele·· .. phone David Gaurdino ANY- ·TIME at 423-558-1197.or 214- 340-9844; Fax 21.4-341-0606 Wanted!!! Individual,. StUdent Organization to Promote SPRING BREAK Earn '.... -. MONEY and FREE TRIPS CALL IN· '' TER-CAMPUS PRO.GRAMS http://www.icpt.com l-800-327-6013 SPRING BREAK-Nassau/Paradiselsland, Cancun. and Jamaica from $299. Ajr Hotel, Transfers, Par- ties and more! Organize small groups-earn FREE trips plus commisions! call 1-800-822-0321

SED AND RIPPED- OF Buyer Beware. After reading this, you might feel like inspecting the prices on your textbooks more closely. Have you become a victim ·of the Union College· Bookstore's abuse? The a:buse 1 speak of revolves around a discovery I made this past weekend. I was reading H(lZard of New Fortunes by William Dean Howells for my Realism and Naturalism class when I glanced down at the price tag on the back of the book. For a used; paperback book, the bookstore charged me nine bucks. Out of curiosity, I checked to see what the original publisher's price was (remember- ing the unofficial motto of the bookstore, \we find the best prices for you\) I · was appalled at what I saw; Not only was the original price only seven bucks, but it was also inked out with a black marker; In other words, I ·paid more for a used book than I could have for a brand new one at a commercial bookstore. On. top of that, these facts were hidden behind a black marker. I would Hke an explanation for this blatant highway robbery. How do they ........... 7 making us pay more for less? I suppose the bookstore thrives on the fact that they are basically the only source students have for textbooks. They have a comfortable monopoly on textbooks, stationary, and other essential products that students without cars must buy at the bookstore. So buyer beware. It may not seem like a lot of money was lost in my situation, but all those dollars add up to a lot out of our pockets. Now is the time to take a look at your books and see if you've been used and ripped-off. Sincerely, Leena Mankad '97 LANGUAGE DISCRIMINATION: Multicultural Affairs Committee by the Multicultural Affairs Committee Have you ever been discriminated against because you speak differently from others? Have you ever discrimi- nated against anyone because they had an accent? Whether you think these two ques- tions apply to you or not, the fact that many people discriminate because of language barriers remains uncontested. In some cases, the issues stem forth from the accented English of one of the speakers. It is justifiable that in a con- versation people may take their time to properly understand each other. how- ever, what is not justifiable is ridicule of what another person has said. This can be seen as an attack to people who speak another language in addition to English, but it is not. This is· an ef- fort to let everyone know what actu- ally happens on this campus, as well as a feedback about how some people re- act when their speech is being ridiculed. In many ways, consider this article an awareness experience. We tend to hide the negative aspects to our history. One of these negative aspects has been our discrimination due to language. One example is the inci- dent of Gregorio Cortez in Texas 1901. Greg()ri~- Cortez~ who did not speak English, was a marginalized Texan of Mexieanberitage·. Cortez was convicted and hnpqsoried· because of a misunder- standing between 'him and the sheriff of his town. The sheriff, using a transla ... tor!> asked Cortez if he had traded a horse, Cortez answered no. However~ he had traded a' mare, .not a horse. When Cortez attempted to explain the differ- ence to the sheriff, the translator pur- posely lied and told the sheriff that Cortez ·was going to resist the arrest. This caused the sheriff to accidentally shoot Cortez, s brother who was around, and Cort~z eventt:~ally killed the sheriff in retaliaticn. For eleven days Cortez was a fugitivi} in his .own country until the Texas Rangers caught him. I How many times have you spoken. with someone who has a heavy ac- cent, and while conversing found your- self slowly repeating the same words the other person had just mentioned? To many people it seems as if how others speak English is the only way to judge them. This is very common amongst students hereat Union. In par- ticular, nontraditional students, such as minorities and international students, feel this is a prejudgment of their charac- ters. For instance, in a conversation be- tween an international student and a typical Union student, the international student, who has a very heavy accent innocently asked; \What are you doing up so early?\ the typical Union stu- dent, in a very condescellding manner, slowly replied,\ WHAT-AM-I-DOING- UP-SO-EARLY? I-HAVE-TEST-TO- DAY. DO-YOU-UNDERSTAND?\ By now the international student was blush- ing furiously and looking down in em- barrassment. Obviously~ the typical Union student.had made the interna- tional student feel completely ignorant. Another student feels that language dis- crimination also occurs in the class- room. In his experience, some profes- sors have made him feel awkward be- cause they have not been able to prop- erly pronounce his full riame. While calling attendance the professor asked him,. \You sir ! ! ! How do pronounce your name?\ When the student finished pronouncing his name, the professor sarcastically asked, \SQ do you have nickname?'' At first thestudehtthought the professor was just kidding, but, as the term progressed, he realized that the professor was constantly making snide remarks only to him. N\ow consider how you think the student felt in re- gards to his culture? Was the professor prejudice towards the student's culture? These are just a few accounts of lan- guage discrimination that have occurred in the past and continue to obstruct the gaps between differe~t cultures. For Love or Lust? Stephanie Kuehn Copy Editor Recently at Health Services I noticed a sign which read, \If he doesn;t have a condom, you just have to take a deep breath and ask him to go get one.\ Ad- joining this quote was a picture of a girl crouched up with her arms wrapped around her legs and a look across be- tween discomfort and sadness on her face. Are we meant to feel pity here? Oh, poor girl, her date didn't have a condom a.nd god forbid she would have to bring up the uncomfortable question, \Where's the condom?\ I suppose I .am perhaps taking this poster the wrong way, as most of you may interpret the obvious intention as being quite good, and in fact a statement about safe sex which is certainly extremely important. There is more to this poster than that, however. What does sex mean to us in this gen- eration? Everywhere we see the words \safe sex\ and \protect yourself' and \use a condom,\ but what about \Is sex the answer?\ or ''For love or for lust?\ I realize that in this age with sexually transmitted diseases like AIDS ripping through the lives of men and women, the community is put in a rather awk- ward position of whether to stress ab- stinence or te stress safe sex given that people are going to have sex anyway so why not try and at least make it safe. It may sound to some of you that I am providing abstinence as the answer, but this is not the case. The real question, and most important question in my opin- ion, is \Why are we having sex?\ Getting back to the poster, along with many other similar ones, in Health Ser- vices. This poster made me feel un- comfortable because of two words, \deep breath.\ Why would it be neces- sary to have to take a deep breath in order to ask someone who you were about to share the most intimate of ex- periences with to get something that is protecting you both (namely a condom)? This makes me question how important sex is to us. What is it becoming? Has sex transformed into some animal ac- tivity for the sole purpose of relieving our sexual urges and fantasies? What it all comes down to is the question: Why wouldn't a person feel comfortable enough to ask the person they are with to use a condom when they apparently feel comfortable enough to share their bodies (and ideally their souls)? Perhaps many of you feel. the same way that I do, but I would honestly have to question that lately. Am I the only one that believes in love anymore? Dear Editors, Campus Buzz Before I plunge into thi~ weeks explosive issue, let me define what I mean by a buzz ... Buzz- A common topic conversed on frequently within different groups: social, academic ect. A buzz can originate from anywhere, but must in some way effect or associate itself with Union college participant's. Also, the topic can range, because no matter how serious or superficial the buzz may seem, it is reflective of communal interests. As for the truth-values contained within a buzz?- well, I will try my best to discriminate betw•n rumor and fact. But don't hold me on any- thing. In the past few weeks, one could even say years, the issue of Schaffer library and it's reconstruction has been a major topic on campus. Reconstruction of the Schaffer library was put off a few years back in order to give precedence to an equally expensive project, the Nott Memorial. As I walk through our wonderfully aesthetic campus, I can't help but to notice certain priorities which were con- veyed in this exceedingly delicate decision. Mainly, history/aestheticism vs. aca- demics, or more simply put, the past vs. the now. Let's explore the intricacies a bit further. Both the Nott and the library needed to be re-done, the question was, which should we do first? The need for reconstructing the Nott as they planned meant building a theater as soon as possible. The Nott was becoming increasingly less safe, and because the theater was in the Nott, Union was in dire need of a new theatrical centerpiece. The Yulman's answered this call, and with a generous gift of three million dollars, helped to build what is now the Yulman theater. Along with the new theater came a transformed Nott Memorial. It is indeed a historic masterpiece, and the heroic symbol for Union. Now, it is also a museum, a lectute hall, and a study annex for students to use during monitored hours. The importance of this m.onument is great, it is the essence of Union's image, and I'm sure it's usefulness will continue to grow in the future. But can not the same be said for our college's library? An extensive and updated library, combined with our strong faculty would undoubtedly forward our colleg~'s main concern, it's aca- demic environment. Because UniQn, in all of it's extracurricular glory, has one main purpose- exceiJing in education. Could the Yulman theater and the Schaffer library have been a cornbined primary project? This scenario would have shown the school,s commitment to the NOW, instead of an over enthused zeal f()r the past. The Nott, in all of it's dilapidation, could have waited. l hope that if it were possible to concentrate on the library first, than that would have been the case. But what's done is done. I hear faint sighs from our Adminis· tration that the decision was based on finance. That concentrating on the Nott showed the alumni (who are major financial supporter's) a commitment to a dis- integrating masterpiece which embodies Union's history. I also hope that. these same alumni would appreciate the dire need for an extended~ and updated library. The decision that was made effects. us all. In a recent .poll I took: twenty-five students said the library should have come first, four said the Nott takes pre~e­ dence over the library, and one was indifferent. The indifferent one is a senior.

PagelO · OP/ED The Concordiensis • February22,.l996 ' . ,.. . ·' Letters · · . ----Buchanan For President \When I am elected President ofthe United States, there will be no more N AFT A sellouts of American Workers. There will be no more GA TI deals done for the benefit of Wall Street bankers. And there will he no more 50 bil- lion dollar bailouts of Third World socialists, whether in Mos- coworMexicoCity. We'regoing to bring the jobs home and we're going to keep America's jobs here, and when I walk into that Oval Office, we start looking out for America first.\ No, this is not Bob Dole or Steve Forbes talk- ing, this is a rnan ofconvictiens, a man of intensity, and a man car- rying the most momentum into Iowa and New Hampshire. This is Pat Buchanan, and I feel he is the best man to lead America into the next century. Pat Buchanan is for America more than any other candidate in the race for the presidency. You can see it in his eyes when you hear him speak aboutfallen Ameri- can incomes. \Ou.r American workers are the most productive in the world; our technology is the finest. Yet, the real incomes of American workers have fallen 20 percent in 20 years. What is an economy for if not so thatwmk- ers and their families can enjoy the good life their parents knew, so that incomes rise with every year of hard work, and so that Americans once again enjoy the highest standard of living in the world.\ His stance on illegal immigra- tion is the clearest of all candi- dates. Buchanan is against it be- cause, ''Every year millions of un- documented aliens break our laws, cross our borders, and demand social benefits paid for with the tax dollar of American citizens. California is being bankrupted. Texas, Florida, and Arizona are begging Washington to do its duty and defend the states as the Constitution requires. Yet our leaders, timid and fearful of being called names, do nothing. Well, they have not invented the name I have not been called. So, the custodians of Political Correct- ness do not frighten me. And I will do what is necessary to de- fend the borders of my country even if it means putting the Na- tional Guard all along our south- em.frontier.\ Thisis a man who is not afraid to say what he feels. Protection of America is important and anyone who reads a state- ment like this must be behind it. As for abortion, Buchanan wants no part of it. He has stated ' Leonardo Da Vinci: Inventor, Artist, Inspiration ~----------------------------------- by Professor Frank Wicks contributing writer \In the summer of 1994 a • Nott Exhibits Committee was formed in conjunction with the renovation and dedication .Of the Nott Memorial, and has been extended for the purpose of a continuous rotation of dis- . plays. As a member of the com- mittee, I encourage all mem- bers of the Union College community to· take the oppor.: tunity to ·examine the remark· able models of the inventions ofLeonatdo da Vinci that were commissioned by Thomas Watson of ffiM and are now on display. Da Vinci was born in 1452 at the same time that Johann . Gutenberg was inventing a practical printing press. For the · first time the printed word and books could be reproduced in large quantities. Knowledge could be preserved and prolif- erate. The dark ages of intel- lectual stagnation were re- placed by a new era of excite- ment and creativity. Along with becoming one of the greatest artists of th:e Ital- ian Renaissance with his \Last Supper\ and \Mona Lisa,\ Da Vinci was also an inventor, a civil and military engineer, a botanist, an astronomer, a ge- ologist, art anatomist and a pio- neer in aviation. ' the' ~cidels weret~eCieated from sketches ofhis ;inventions. Along with world is round, and not flat as it appears to be. The 1492 voyage by Co- lumbus was an effort to com- mercialize on the round earth hypothesis. He woUld go east by sailing west and. open a profitable new trade route. His esti- My own imagination was most stimulated by his system of plumb lines to mea- sure size ofthe earth. mate of 3 ' 0 0 0 miles from the Canary Islands to Japan pre-· sumed the earth was . about one flying ma- chinesanda parachute is an improve- ment of Gutenberg'~ printing press, rolier · bearings to reduce fric- ======================= quarter of tion on wagon wheels and an armored vehicle for warfare. My own imagination was most stimulated by his system of plumb lines to measure size of the earth. Since each line points to the earth's center, a careful measurement of the angle between two lines and knowledge of geometry can be used to calculate the earth's ra- dfus. This experiment is intriguing because Leonardo de Vinci Was a contemporary or Christopher Columbus (by 1451 ?). They lived at a time when it took out- standing intellect to believe the its actual size. Columbus discovered new continents, but it is also true that he did not really know where he was going, he did not know where he was when he got there, and he did not kriow where he had been when he returned to Spain. The size of the world was still a mystery. Thus, while Columbus was starting a new era of exploration and discovery, Leonardo da Vinci was at- tempting to measure its size by combining mathematics with experimental science.\ he will be the \mostpro•life Presi- dent in the history of America.\ This is because as he puts it, \fu the 22 years since Roe•vs . .;Wade, the technology has developed to dramatically demonstrate the hu- manity ofthe child originating in the womb. The truth is,. every abortion stops a beating heart . ., The Constitution of the United States protects life. LifeisAmeri- can value and when American lives are being taken, something must be done. When it comes to the United Nations, Buchanan also strikes a chord. He tells.ofa story oftwo U.S. helicopters flying surveil- . lance over Iraq.andhow 15 Ameri- cans were killed. He then goes on to tell how the Vice-President said, \the parents of these young Americans can be proud- they died in the service of the U.N.\ He theuraises his voice and says, \I tell you, when I get to that Oval Office, never a.gain will young Americans be sent into battle ex- cept under American officers and under the American Flag.\ How can anyone argue with this? . Pat Buchanan is a man who loves. America. Whenever he says something, I can't help but get a feeling of pride, because this is our country, and here is someone who cares about it so .much. We, as a country, need someone with fire in their eyes. Intensity gets things done, and with Pat Buchanan you have the most intense person in politicstoday. GOPATGO. Tobias Len Class of 1997 GOPAT. ... GOAWAY! See editorial-ED A Quest for Diversity Dear Editors, When I chose to come to Union, i.t was for an education ... Nothing more, nothing less, or so I thought. Being raised in our urban city a person cannot really feel out of place or feel they stand out more than anyone else. So being called a mi- nority was not a word that meant anything to mt<. To me, it was a word that poli~ic~ans used and people shouted at rallies at city hall, 'but I personally never felt like a\ minority\ ..... Until I stepped foot ·'on this campus as a. student. · . The first day. of orientation was one of th~ scariest day of my life. I was surrounded by a bunch people that I had never met, with their own points of view and their own.fears. I was entering a new world with new rules and new expectations. For many freshmen, this was the day you wondered if you made the right decision, but my fear was amplified ten tim~~ because I am a ·student of co.lor. T~at day all these question~ ran ~hrough my 'mind:: Will r fit in''?' wm t be stared at1 Are they afraid of me ? Is there a reason for me to be afraid ofthem? these ate not nonhal 'questions to be asked except if you are tninorit:y on almost any college campus. Many the people I know come from neighborhoods that their ethic background is the same as their next door neighbor. That goes the same for me but, once . I left my block, there was whole world of different people to meet. I went to school with all types of people from all social and radical stratospheres .. The reason that I do not feel like I made the wrong decision anymore is firstly because the questions that haunted me that day were answered with a resounding \No\ as time went on. Sec- ondly, i found the support I need not only as a freshman but also as a person of color in two organizations. One is a well known student alliance on this campus called A.L.A.S. This is short for the African American and Latino Alliance ofStudents. At the meet- ings we discuss all kinds of issues that are important to students of color. We also discuss issues about the world outside ofUnion. The goal of A.L.A.S. is to help bring diversity to th~ campus. Now however, AL.A.S. is not the only group thatmust shoul- der the burdenofbtinging Union to the goal of diversity. There is now another group willing to help in the struggle. It is called C.E.L.A. short for Cirulo Estudiantil Latino Americano (Circle of Latino American Students). \The mission of CELA is to enhance and increase the diversified atmosphere of the college community in order to properly represent Latin American cultures, 11 Both of these groups are willing to change the. face of Union. Their goals are the same and the struggle for change is hard one. I hope they choose to fight together for the common good of the students, no matter what their ethic background. For if this cam- pus were more diverse, students who go through Union would learn more than what is in the textbooks and the professors' minds. And when a student leaves Union; that student will have a lot more to offer to the world outside. Peggy Salnedi

OPIED ij!q.e (!tD:u.cn:rM.en£~~is • February 22, 1996 · Page 11 ' ' EDITORIAL - . - . - .. , . ' . . . • l Pat Buchanan:· Isolationist, Fear-Mongering Reactionary Bigot It seems to us that we have all seen the type of speech quoted in Mr. Len's letter to the editor before. Gee: xenophobia, vulgar nationalism, blamingother.people for our own problems--strangely reminiscent of doctrine being propagated in Europe during the '30s. What Buchanan and his right-wing cohorts fail to realize is · that America's problems are notbeing caused by NAFTA, foreign trade, or illegal immigrants. What is causing the problem is the· backward; resentful ignorance. Mr. Buchanan encourag~s in his · appeal to the lowest common denominator. The fact of the matter is that by focusing on education, global trading blocs, and sen- sible (i.e. not bigoted) social policy we will he helping Atn.erica move towards prosperity. Buchanan's skewed vision of an America engaged in a \reli- gious war\ is inimical to the values which made America great. Buchanan wants two Americas: one black and one white, one poor and one rich. Cutting education, giving tax breaksto the rich and hurting the working poor would be a move backward to the illusory \good old days\ ofBuchanan's imagination, which would in fact be a nightmare for most Americans. . This appeal to the \American Worker\ is also reminiscent of the 1930s. For those of you who don'talready know its meaning, we suggest that you look upwhat the National Socialist Workers' Party's original ideology was (the sort of upstanding American patriot Buchanan aspires to champion may need to be told that the NSWP are aka the Nazis). Some of the material quoted in Len's letter is c1 early cut from the same doth, most obviously the clas- sic tactic of claiming that America is in big trouble, which is caused by outsiders, that Americans are its victims not its source, and that we desperately need a strong leader to save us. Buchanan is a bigot and a sexist who lacks any real vision. He is preaching policy and employing rhetoric which human history has shown can only lead to disaster. 1L The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Anthony C. LaVecchia, Evan L. Morris EDITORS-IN;.CfllEF Michelle Ellis NEWS EDITOR LarryPaska ARTS EDITOR Scott Steadman LAYOUT EDITOR Adam Richman LAYOUT EDITOR EMERITUS Rick Lellerer Laurel Rums PHOTO EDITOR.S Stephanie Kuehn COPY EDITOR Eric Svenson Jonathan Fader SPORTS EDITORS Matthew Sandler WORLD NEWS EDITOR Peter Sorensen FEATURES EDITOR David Pinkowitz, Lisa Lemoi EXECUTIVE EPJTOR DavidEder Chris Richards LIVING EDITORS Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Tatiana Cogevina COMPUTER MANAGER Barry Eisenberg ASSISTANT COMPUTER MANAGER Jared Richman CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Raquel Millman OPINIONS EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Drudiemiller, Laurie Kirschner, Sbaun-Paul Manore. STAFF: Jlagan LaCorte, Greg Kalish, Pete Farnum, Omar AI- Khalidi, Emily Battis, Jeff Druzba, Jon Gastbalter, Mike Leding, Co&or McKenzie, Martin Metz, :Bhavani Meduri, Jenn Pelose, Aaron Si~otte, Aileen Qtdgly, Kathy Walters, Brandon D. Declet - · - .. OP-ED _ · . _· Overlooking the Irony of Winter Term Raquel Millman Opinions Editor We wake up in the morning. It is early enough that sleep is still dripping off our eyelids, yet late enough that the sun has been out for hours. There is a crispness in the air that we feel the second that we step foot out- side. It wakes us even better than the caffeine we pour into our bodies. We walk through the white landscape on our way to discovering new fonnulas or centuries of the past. We ar- rive, app~eciative of the heat, and some of our sleepiness re- turns. We look outside the win- dows of our classrooms and see the dead of winter. This dead of winter, of which I am referring to, is a concept of the theories of Northrop Frye (renowned English author, professor, editor, etc.). He stated that he believed that each season represents a different mood, for literature as well as life. Spring is comedy with the rebirth of nature. Summer is romance with all that is full of life. Autumn is tragedy with the dying of nature. And Winter is irony, surrounded by nothing except meaningless death. If you look for these elements in film and literature, as well as in life, you'll see that it works. We are now being faced with the irony of winter term. No one ever wants to go for that stroll to the college center anymore. No one ever wants to get out of bed in the morn- ing. No one is bouncing around with natural energy. Silliman is packed with bronchitis and pneumonia and you'll rarely hear five minutes go by in a classroom without a cough or a sneeze. We are tired. We are pale. We are sick. If one compares the Concordiensis issues from last tenn to those of this term, one will find a drastic difference. The difference of which I am writing of is that while once we wrote about what was llappen- ing on campus, now we write of what is not. We complain. We whine. We take out our frustrations with our never-end- ing sniffies and soar throats on our fellow students and the in- stitution we chose to attend. The difference is not being caused by the change of editors, but rather by the seasonal up- set. It is partially true that there is less happening in the winter; however, it is horribly exagger- ated by seemingly fatal hyper- bole after hyperbole that seem to plague the campus newspa- per. This article does not mean to whine or to complain, but rather to plead. It is time to realize what we have here and how lucky we are. While it may be cold, and we may all be sick, we are lucky to be given this opportunity to grow. So the next time you are about to speak of apathy at Union or the lack of activities, think about it. Maybe what you really need is a hot cup of hot chocolate and a long nap. And remember, Spring is coming sooner than you think!

Who Is Apathetic?? Dear Editors, Let's straighten a few things out. First, The Concordiensis editors failed to address what they meant by apathy, which I addressed in my fanner letter. S~cond;. Union students have atta;cked the Concordiensis editors for their comments on Union apathy. What's wrong with this picture? How is it that Union students have responded so vividly to a concept so undefined and vague? Unless these students canread the minds of the Concordiensis editors, their attacks are unjustified and ignorant. Moreover, con- sidering that not one of these angry students calmly asked the Concordiensis editors what they really thought, their arguments were ridiculous monologues. Curious, I asked the Concordiensis editors what they truly meant. Notto my surprise; their definition of apathy and how it applies to this school had nothing to do with how many sports teams or clubs we have. Therefore, calling the editor ••The Almighty,.\ was rude and childish. Apatlly: defined as L lack of eltWtion 2. lack ofinteren or concern. Union students are lacking emotion towards what? Where do we lack interest or con- cern? l11e writers of the Concordiensis interpreted this as not a lack of interest in the arts or campus activities, but a lack of emotion towards change and intellectual curiosity. Sadly, I agree with them for many reasons. First, unlike many other campuses, Union enjoys status quo. There are many prob- lems with this campus just like there are at every college, but unlike other colleges we accept these problems. I can't count the number of times I've heard the phrase \there is nothing you can do to change things. Unless you have the adtninistratio11 backing you or some other pull, just forget it.\ Even more frightening is the phrase, \ look what happened to the Greek kitchens last year, and they have enormous influence!\ Just the other day a male friend said to me,\ This is a male campus and it always will be!\ The most frightening of all these comments, however, is that \The real problems with the critics is their failure to realize the Vietnam war is over. College students can take a rest from protesting!\ To this person I say, if you understood the complex:ities of that time period you would realize that those students protested much more than the Vietnam war. They spurred change within American culture such that civil rights and am ore equitable society could exist. If they hadn't protested many prejudices and societal ills would still be prevalent today. Second, intellectual curiosity is lacking here. By this I am not referring to how many hours you study or how many precept books you read. Intellectual curioS'ity doesn't include absorping what your professors say as true, memorizing it and regurgitating it on a test. It can not be described by your GPA or your SAT scores. Intellectual curiosity is what stimulates the mind and makes us wonder about the world around us. How often do students ask their professors a question that relates to but is not included in the course material? How many students visit their professors to discuss the.subject matter because they are interested in it and not because they have a test in a few days? How many students question the values that their parents and society have instilled in them? I assure you these numbers are low. We are too quick to believe that we are \leaders and too siow to realize that the quality of a question determines how intei! igent we are, not the amount of information we can regurgitate. Moreover, we have proven ourselves too quick to attack that which we do not under- stand. I'm sure many students still will not agree with this interpretation, but it is an injustice to call the Concordiensis editors egotistical when we did not know what was meant by their statements. Union's apathy is rampant according to their interpretation and I commend them on bringing this issue to light. Sincerely, Stacy Tamburrino Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OPtED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College commuaity. Final decisions concerning printing andior editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need n()t appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns, or cartoons reflect the opi11ions ofthe writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensi.~ is published eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College.. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1996, all rights reserved. Box 2517, College Center,. Unicm College, Schenectady, New York 12308. Telephone(518)388-6155. TheConwrdiensisis printed by World Media, 1104 Central Avenue, Albany, NY, 12205. Ue Concordien.\'is subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Stu.dent News Service, & King Syndicates. Submissions: All submissions are due the Monday before publication at 5 pm submitted on either Macintosh High Density Microsoft Word disks, ()r MS-Dos Microsoft Word or WordPerfect disks and can be dropped off with the hard copy in the drop box outside the Concordiensis office on the third floor ofthe College Center or by E-mail. Concordy@Gar. Union.Edu

Who Is Apathetic?? Dear Editors, Let's straighten a few things out. First, The Concordiensis editors failed to address what they meant by apathy, which I addressed in my former letter. Second, Union students have attacked the Concordiensis editors for their comments on Union apathy. What's wrong with this picture? How is it that Union students have responded so vividly to a concept so undefined and vague? Unless these students can read the minds of the Concordiensis editors, their attacks are unjustified and ignorant. Moreover, con- sidering that not one of these angry students calmly asked the Concordiensis editors what they really thought, their arguments were ridiculous monologues. Curious, I asked the Concordiensis editors what they truly meant. Not to my surprise, their definition of apathy and how it applies to this school had nothing to do with how many sports teams or clubs we have. TI1erefore, calling the editor \The Almighty,\ was rude and childish. Apathy: defined as 1. lack of emotion 2. lack of interest or concern. Union students are lacking emotion towards what? Where do we lack interest or con- cern? TI1e writers of the Concordiensis interpreted this as not a lack of interest in the arts or campus activities, but a lack of emotion towards change and intellectual curiosity. Sadly, I agree with them for many reasons. First, unlike many other campuses, Union enjoys status quo. There are many prob- lems with this campus just like there are at every college, but unlike other colleges we accept these problems. I can't count the number of times I've heard the phrase \fuere is nothing you can do to change things. Unless you have the administration backing you or some other pull, just forget it.\ Even more frightening is the phrase,\ look what happened to the Greek kitchens last year, and they have enonnous influence!\ Just the other day a male friend said to me, \This is a male campus and it always wil:l be!\ The most frightening of all these comments, however, is that \The real problems with the critics is their failure to realize the Vietnam war is over. College students can take a rest from protesting!\ To this person I say, if you understood the complexities of that time period you would realize that those students protested much more than the Vietnam war. They spurred change within American culture such that civil rights and a more equitable society could exist. If they hadn't protested many prejudices and societal ills would still be prevalent today. Second, intellectual curiosity is lacking here. By this I am not referring to how many hours you study or how many precept books you read. Intellectual curiosity doesn't include absorping what your professors say as true, memorizing it and regurgitating it on a test. It can not be described by your GPA or your SAT scores. Intellectual curiosity is what stimulates the mind and makes us wonder about the world around us. How often do students ask their professors a question that relates to but is not included in the wurse material? How many students visit their professors to discuss the subject matter because they are interested in it and not because they have a test in a few days? How many students question the values that their parents and society have instilled in them? I assure you these numbers are low. We are too quick to believe that we are \leaders and too sww to realize that the quality of a question determines how intei!igent we are, not the amount of information we can regurgitate. Mun:uver, we have proven oursdves too quick tu attack that which we do not under- stand. I'm sure many students still will not agree with this interpretation, but it is an injustice to call the Concordiensis editors egotistical when we did not know what was meant by their statements. Union's apathy is rampant according to their interpretation and I commend them on bringing this issue to light. Sincerely, Stacy Tamburrino Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns, or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion ofthe Editorial Board. 1he Concordiensis is published eight Thursdays a term by the students of Union College. It is funded in part by the Student Activities Fee. The Concordiensis, copyright 1996, all rights reserved. Box 2577, College Center, Union College, Schenl.!ctady, New York 12308. Telephone (518) 388-6155. The Conwrdiensisis printed by World Media, 1104 Central Avenue, Albany, NY, 12205. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, & King Syndicates. Submissions: All submissions are due the Monday before publication at 5 pm submitted on either Macintosh High Density Microsoft Word disks, or MS-Dos Microsoft Word or WordPerfect disks and can be dropped off with the hard copy in the drop box outside The Concordiensis office on the third floor of the College Center or by E-mail. Concordy@Gar. Union.Edu Y all the fuss? . . Dear Editor, (ie: person/people who use the anonymous printed word to manipu~ late the minds oftheir small yet impressionable readerShip), Before I begin, I feel I must make a disclaimer for any spelling mistakes that slip by my spell check or for any politically correct statements and/or ' 1 offensive 11 spellings which may make this letter, and it's \folly too \pointless'' and gosh dam \misdirected'' for the editors and staff of the Concorcly. Also note that the contents of tWs letter are solely the opinions of the writer and do not represent the views of the Wornyn*s Unionor .. of all womenlwomyn in theworld .. *afact.thathas certainly been overlooked in this entire ''controversy.\ Why Y? Before·automaticaliy denouncing: those. crazy ~'womyn,\ examine·where this indignation comes from. Why does such an innocent lett~tyJ; Jl()se such a threat? My dear, dear editors, perhaps. you have a<:tually pointed'out my folly. Perhaps, silly littl¢ me\ I just needed a leve1 .. hellded m~ t:opoi11t m~ in the right direQtion? Does this sound too hostile; am I o.verrea.cti:ttg (j!lst like ~lose. females. eh?)? ln~tead of hiding behind condescending ignorant genexalizations 1 scapegoating those fictitious \womyn\ who only exist as punching bags in the minds of the non-fictitious misogynistic pigs that may or m~ not roam the grounds of Union College; take a real risk; st~ outside your own egotistical uninfonned impressions and take a real look at th~ Womyn's Union (assuming that is whom you attempted to address). nso tor au you womyn out there, this .. editorial is dedicated to you and your folly\ .. ok, so who exactly are these \Womyn ,;? As far as I am aware, no members of the current Womyn's Union refer to themselves as womyn or exclusively use this version in their daily lives. therefore, I run sorry to inform you, but your attack · was aimed at a seemingly nonexistentminority of theoretical people. Despite this technicality, I will finish my argument. in order to further educate the esteemed editors of-the Concordy. The Womyn•s Union has worked over the past years to raise awareness of issues concerning women ( such as eating disorders and pornography} and exam~ ine the status of women at Union College. Last Spring, Women and men of Union College traveled to Washington D.C. to attend the Rally for Women's Rights. Recently, the Womyn's Union sponsored, along with Women's Commission and Peer Facilitators, a visit by poet Minnie Bruce Pratt and organized a workshop and talk with author Paula Kamen-both events which enriched Union College's aca· demic atmosphere and evoked thought and discussion about feminism and gen- der. Last year the Womyn's Union changed its name (from Women to Womyn) to call attention to the word woman, to question the image associated with the word. and to propose a new way of reading and interpreting what is female. TI1is intellectual exercise, while striking a chord in the Union Community, seems to have been as misinterpreted as Jared Richman's \bytcli\ cartoon two weeks ago and has re· suited in the pointless and destructive mental tantnuns to which I am responding, Considering the consistent complaints voiced in the Concordy concerning Union's apathy and anti-intellectual attitudes; I am surprised to find that the Womyn's Union has joined the ranks of standby complaints on this otherwise \don't rock the boat\ campus. Instead of recognizing the Womyn's Union for its accomplishments in an atmosphere that resists its very existence, the Concordy seems to use every opportunity1to'take cheap shots at the name of the club, yet hides its \newsworthy\ head in the sand when it comes to the real issues. It is a sad day when the Concordy serves to suppress the activism it paradoxi- cally pretends to crave. Sincerely, Robin Macdonald. '97 Co~president ofWomyn's Union I have only one question for Ms. Macdonald: did you bother to read the entire eJ#oria/, or did you storm to your word processor in anger the moment you saw that \womyn\ were betng criticized by the big awful males? The point of the editorial was not to attack the Womyns Union, rather it was to point out a humorous reality. The fact ojthe matter is that the only 'Jolly\ that the editorial referred to is the incorrect focus·-in our view--of those who insist that the E in women be changedto a Y. We did not state or even loosely imply that/he Womyn's Union is doing a badjob. We salute the group Jot being involved on campus. Groups like yours make the college better. Misdirected energy on the other hand does not. We can not fathom why Ms. Macdonald chooses to portray the editorial board as \person/people who use the anonymousprinted word to manipulate the minds of their small yet impressionable readership. \ Take it from us--we're fitlly em .. p/oyed trying to manipulate the spell-checker. We Jid nothing of the sort. What we did do is auempt to foster debate. We appear to have .'iucceeded in a sense, but in another sense it seems that our point got lost. -ED

Arts & Entertainment · Local Arts Calendar This Week · · . . .· .· miSWEEKEND The New York State Museum Fourth Annual Gem & Mineral Show and Sale will take place in Albany on Saturday and Sun- day, February 24 and 25 from 10AM-5PM. Admission is $3 per person and includes~admis'­ sion to the display, sale, and pro- grams. Museum members pay $2.50. Children 12 an<;l under are free. The event highlights the research and collections of the MuseUill's New York State Geological Survey and features lectures, gallery tours, demon- strations by members of the Eastern Federation .of Mineral and Lapidary Societies, hands- on programs with Museum edu- cators, and presentations by sci- entists from the New York State Geological Survey. SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 25 Irish immigration and the lives of Irish Americans in the Capi- tal Region will be the focus of a Collection Conversation at Albany Institute of History and Art beginning at 2:00 PM. Led by Wesley BaUa, curator ofhis· tory a! the Albany lnstitute, \Erin's People in Albany: The :Irish Experience\ will feature an in-depth discussion about the Irish experience and a presen· tation of Out of Ireland, a te· cent documentary f!lm which will inspire local peopleoflrish heritage to recall their personal memories .. Collection Conversations are monthly programs that focus on specific areas .of the Albany Institute's permanent collection. The Collection Conversation is free. for members, $3 for adults and $2 for seniors and students {includes museum admission). Information on the Institute is listed below. Discover four centuries .of re· gional history, art, and culture during a guided tour of the AI· bany Institute of History and Art beginning at 1 :00 PM. This one hour \Overview Tour\ high- lights the permanent collection or one of the oldest museums in the country. including ex- amples of Hudson River School landscapeipaintings; early Dutch lirnner portraits; 18th and 19th century furniture, paintings, sclllpture, and decorative arts; themummies and artifacts ofthe Egyptian Gallery; and much m ()re. Boasting a style that fuses the elegance and excitement of daz- zling movement with the rhythm and emotion of jazz, Les Bal- ]el.\' Jazz de Montreal will per- form at the at 7 PM. Considered Canada's most traveled cultural ambassador, the company de- fies conventional categories by carefully melding classical bal- let and modem dance and pair- ing it with music that ranges widely through the jazz reper- toire. Tickets for this performance are $24 for adults, $21 for se- ni()rs and $15 for children 12 and under. For further infor- HAROLD LOHNER REC]~N'r PRINl~S ANI) I)RAWINGS SILENT HEROES JANUARY29 ~ MARCH I, 1996 UNION COLLEGE ARTS ATRIUM OPEN DAILY 9AM-6PM I Harold Lohner, untitled, 1995 c ' ' mation and reservations, con- tact the Empire Center at The Egg Box Office at 473-1845. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27 A double bill blues concert fea- turing John Hammond and The Duke Robillard Band will per- form at 7:30 PM at the Empire Center at The Egg. Hammond and Robillard's band have been touring frequently together for the past two years. this led to their collaboration and release of Found True Love, Hammond's third album for Pointblank/Vir- gin which was co-produced by Hammond and Robillard. The night will open with a solo set by Hammond followed by a set by The Duke Robillard Band. This extraordinary evening will be capped off with Hammond joining Robillard and band on stage for an encore of rousing blues tunes. Tickets for this concert are $12. For further information and reservations, contact the Center at The Box Office at 473- t 845. ONGOING Fine examples of works from the print collections of six up- state museums dating from the 15th century to the present are on display in the East and West Galleries (Main Hall) of the Al- bany Institute of History & Arr This exhibit contains works by many of the world's most re- nowned printmakers, including Henri Matisse, Pablo Picasso, Paul Cezanne, and many others. The exhibit runs until February 25. Also at the Institute (in the Rice Gallery) is an exhibit en- titled Photographer Joseph Schulyer and painter Dahl Tay- lor document the 1995 replica- tion of the first America's Cup Schooner by Scarano Boat Builders in Albany, This exhibit lasts until March 3. The Institute is located at 125 Washington Avenue in Down- town Albany. Call463-4478 for more information. theater UNION prese11ts Beth Hen:le~·s Pulitzer Prize win11ing play Febl'llal'9 2.8- March 2 & March 6 - 9, 1996 Directed by Lee Ros:e at the Yultnan Theater, Union College 1\sckets: $S w/Union ID. $7 General Public. Box Office: 358'-6545 Chairman English at H and author essay coll collections, Lopate st & writer ry 22 pm he lounge

Page 13 .February 22, 1996 'QI:lr.e Clhnuor?tieusis Arts & Entertainment . . .. · . Local .Arts ealeudarl\'his 1iffeelf > : . . ' - ( . ... . .. ... ~ ' ' .. : . . . = ' ' ' '... . . .~ \' . ' ~ '•' ' ' . ' ' - ' '' . : -.. .. . ·. ~ ~ .. ~' ' ~.' . ~ THIS WEEKEND The New York State Museum Fourth Annual Gem & Mineral Show and Sale wiH take place in Albany on Saturday and Sun- day, February 24 and 25 from 10AM-5PM. Admission is $3 per person and includes _admis- sion to the display, sale, and pro- grams. Ml!lseum members pay $2.50. Children 12 and under are free. The event highlights the research and collections of the Museum's New York State Geological Survey and features lectures, gallery tours, demon- strations by members of the Eastern Federation of Mineral and Lapidary Societies, hands- on programs with Museum edu- cators, and presentations by sci- entists from the New York State Geological Survey. SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 25 Irish immigration and the lives of Irish Americans in the Capi- tal Region will be the focus of a Collection Conversation at Albany Institute of History and Art beginning at 2:00 PM. Led by Wesley Balla, curator of his- tory a: the Albany Institute, \Erin's People in Albany: The Irish Experience\ will feature an in-depth discussion about the Irish experience and a presen- tation of Out of Ireland, a re- cent documentary film which will inspire local people oflrish heritage to recall their personal memories. Collection Conversations are montl~;ly programs that focus on specific areas of the Albany Institute's permanent collection. The Collection Conversation is free for members, $3 for adults and $2 for seniors and students (iHcludes museum admission). Information on the Institute is listed below. Discover four centuries of re- gional history, art, and cui ture during a guided tour of the Al- bany Ins! itute of History and Art beginning at 1:00PM. This oRe hour \Overview Tour\ high- lights the permanent collection of one of the oldest museums in the country, including ex- amples of Hudson River School landscape paintings; early Dutch limner portraits; 1 8th and 19th century furniture, paintings, sculpture, and decorative arts; the mummies and artifacts of the Egyptian Gallery; aHd much 11lore. Boasting a style that fuses the elegamce and excitement of daz- zling movement with the rhythm and emotion of jazz, Les Bal- lets Jazz de Montreal will per- form at the at 7 PM. CoNsidered Canada's most traveled cultural ambassador, the company de- fies conventional categories by carefully melding classical bal- let and modem dance and pair- ing it with music that ranges widely through the jazz reper- toire. Tickets for this performance are $24 for adults, $21 for se- niors and $15 for children 12 and under. For further infor- HAROLD LOHNER ,RE.CENT. PRINTS ANI) l)RAWIN·OS SILENT HEROES JANUARY 29- MARCH I, 1996 UNION COLLEGE ARTS ATRIUM OPEN DAILY 9AM-6PM ' ' Harold Lohner, untilled, 1995 mation and reservations, coN- tact the Empire Center at The Egg Box Office at 473-1845. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27 A double bill blues concert fea- turing John Hammond and The Duke Robillard Band will per- form at 7:30 PM at the Empire Center a/ The Egg. Hammond and Robillard's band have been touring frequently together for the past two years. this led to their colrlaboration and release of Found True Love, Hammond's third album for Pointblank/Vir- gin which was co-produced by Hammond and Robillard. The night will open with a solo set by Hammond followed by a set by The Duke Robillard Band. This extraordinary evening will be capped off with Hammond joining Robillard and band on stage for an encore of rousing blues tunes. Tickets for this concert are $12. For further information and reservations, contact the Empire Center at The Egg Box Office at 473-1845. ONGOING Fine examples of works from the print collections of six up- state museums dating from the I 5th century to the present are on display in the East and West Galleries (Main Hall) of the Al- bany Institute of History & Art. This exhibit contains works by many of the world's most re- nowned printmakers, including Henri Matisse, Pablo Picasso, Pat:1l Cezanne, and many others. The exhibit runs until February 25. Also at the Institute (in the Rice Gallery) is an exhibit en- titled Photographer Joseph Schulyer and painter Dahl Tay- lor document the 1995 replica- tion of the first America's Cup Schooner by Scarano Boat Builders in Albany. This exhibit lasts until March 3. The Institute is located at 12 5 Washington Avenue in Dmvn- town Albany. Call463-4478 for more information. theater UNION prese11ts Beth Henley's Pulitzer Prize wir111iHg play Feb~ 25 - March 2 & March 6 - 9, 1996 Directed by Lee Rose at the Yulznan Theaur, Union College Tickets: $5 w/Union ID. $7 General Pul>lic. B<Jx Office: 3<S'8'-6545 Lopate st & writer Chairman and English at Ho and author essay coll ..... ~ ..... collections, ry 22 pm he lounge

Arts & Entertainment by Lawrence Paska .Arts Editor With the Academy Awards just a month away (the telecast is on Monday, March 25), the Oscar nominations were announced last week. While 1995 fea- tured a number of fine films, the choices for major awards were difficult to make, since few films stood out as distinctive. As a result, the nominations for Best Pic- ture reflect the diversity of films hon- ored. Gone are the days when the awards were given solely to pretentious dramas. Best Picture Nominees: Apollo 13, Babe, Braveheart, The Po~·tman, Sense and Sensibility. This is a rather strange list. If Babe was not the commercial and critical suc- cess it became, would it h~ve ever been noticed by the Academy? And isn't the Best Director nomination for its direc- tor, Chris Noonan, a bit ofan overkill? Even if it doesn't win on the big night, Babe's production company (Universal) is sure to bring horne the bacon with a by Lawrence Paska Arts Editor \Broken Armw.\ Starring John Travolta, Christian Slater, Samantha Mathis, Delroy Lindo. Directed by John Woo. Rated R, Twentieth Century Fox Pictures. Rating: * * * (out of four) There are many impressive qualities of Broken Arrow that make it a cut above the standard action film: \Woo\'s fast- paced and frantic direction, tops h:s work on his first American feature, Hard Target (sophomoric efforts are seldom better); Travolta, flexing his muscles as a thoroughly psychotic pilot who \steals\ two nuclear missiles; Slater, try- ing hard to act like the next Keanu Reeves (which he occasionally pulls oft); and, enough noise, explosions, and fist fights to make one go deaf and experience the thrills of digital sound. As an action film, Broken Arrow is near the top of the list. Woo's brilliantly staged fight scenes leave no room for one to catch a breath and include some interesting camera trickery. It makes use of every cechnical and mechanical de .. vice possible. When you see a helicop- ter resting on a train, you know it is go- ing to be blown to smithereens within the next few minutes. It's the bang of the explosion and the sheer spectacle of the blast that Woo leaves you unprepared for. As a film, overall, though, Broken Arrow does not break any barriers in combining some serious action with a serious plot. Travolta and Slater are pi- lots who are carrying the nuclear mis- siles on a stealth bomber test flight. When Travolta hijacks the bomber and steals the warheads, Slater ends up lost in a Utah park and is aided by a park ranger (Mathis). Travolta thinks his ex-co-pi- lot is deaa, but soon Slater and Mathis are hot on his tail, taking the action be- huge video release and perhaps a sequel. Curiously, both Leaving Las Vegas and Dead Man Walking, two of 1995's most outstanding releases, were all nominated for the top categories ex- cept Best Picture. Dead Man Walking received bids for Best Actor, Actress and Direction. Leaving Las Vegas, on everyone's top Ten lists, received bids for Best Director and Actor but did not get a shot at the coveted Best Picture prize, either. On the other hand, stuffy Bt•itish dramas are still the favorite with Academy voters: \Jane Austen's novel Sense and Sensibility becomes a major contender because it is a British period piece, it was released in December (a good time fer Oscar contenders), and it features top British actors portraying upper-class British society . Some crit- ics just don't buy it. And the winner should be ••• What Will Win: A tough call. Apollo 13 is always a possibility, but may not win because voters will think Tom Hanks has won enough awards for this decade. While there's always one hugely-popu- neath the ground in an abandoned mine and on board a speeding train. The film bears more than a passing resemblance to Speed (perhaps because this was written by Speed's writer., Gra- ham Yost). Mathis is not as convincing an \action lady\ as Sandra Bullock was, and Slater just cannot bring himself to look as tough and clear-headed as Reeves could. While Speed kept the tension mounted without employing every kick and gun in the book, Broken Arrow re- lies exclusively on bad guys getting crushed by all sorts of vehicles, explo- sives getting set off, and guns firing at helicopters. The film's most amazing set piece, an underground nuclear ex- plosion, is quite impressive; however, the repercussions of this blast (on the ecol- ogy) could have been made into an in- teresting sub-plot. Woo contains the blast neatly underground to prevent any radiation leaks, and our characters can go on to what they do best in the story - blowing things up. · Travolta is a cool bad guy. He is restrained and therefore seems much less sinister than he actually is. He hijacks the warheads for the oldest reason around - money. That, combined with the obligatory anger toward his former employers (the staple of any revenge story) makes Travolta a force to be reck- oned with. While we are supposed to believe that his friendship with Slater is a close-knit bond (they even box to- gether), Slater never convinces us how shocked he is to find his friend has be- trayed him. Likewise, both characters have little time to prove their closeness to the audience before the deed has been done. Not as if there is much time to contemplate the meaning of life: Slater keeps busy throughout,. having little time to brood over his lost friend. Overall, Broken Arrow is a sizzling action piece that makes no attempt what- soever to be more than a loud, violent, and tense two-hour mess. A better film would have focused a bit more on these lar film thrown into this category, Apollo I 3 is taken more seriously than most \throw-away\ nominations (like 1993's The Fugitive -. a fine action drama but hardly a \Best Picture\) Brave heart has the most support behind it and, even tho-qgh a relative box office disappoint- ment (it grossed $70 million to date, which was what it cost to make), it has all the makings of a true film made by pepular Hollywood actor once not taken seriously. Babe is the dark horse in the race. It may be good, but does it have the big, serious themes of a Best Pic- ture? It's justa grown-up children's film that's exceptional- an Animal Farm for the 90's. The Postman was superb, but it has received too much controversy over its eligibility (aside from being the first foreign film nominated for this cat- egory in 20 years}. Sense and Sensibil- ity is strong, and its Golden Globe win for Best Picture will only help it along. Both Braveheart or Sense and Sen- sibility stand the best chances for win- ning Best Picture. What Should Win: Braveheart .. Of little plot details, much as Speed did: re- maining steady while starting and resolv- ing side plots. Still, it's a highly stylish piece of filmmaking, and proofthat Woo can make a surefire action movie with a big American budget. As for Travolta, this role was a smart career move. For all of his lack of screen charisma, even Slater seems to be hav- ing a good day. He holds his own against Travolta quite well, having finally dropped his Jack Nicholson imperson- ations and at least tried to be his own actor. the films nominated, it packs the most into its 1hree-hour running time. It's epic, it's visionary, it's historical, it's full of. great acting~d photography ... it's anall- around great film. A bit long, perhaps, but always on-target. Mel Gibson proves himself a serious director wi~h this film. Expect a two-page complaint col- umn on the Awards when Apollo l3 or Sense and Sensibility defeat it.on Oscar night. Larry's Picks: Top Five of 1995 l. Dead Man Walking · · · · 2. Leaving Las Vegas 3. Braveheart 4. Toy Story 5. Nixon Larry's Picks: Bottom Five of 1995 1. Jade 2. Congo 3. Showgirls 4. Pocahontas 5. Judge Dredd Recommended with Travolta: Satur- day Night Fever (***), Look Who's Talking(***), Pulp Fiction (****), Get Shorty (***) Recommended with Slater: True Romance (***), Interview with the Vampire (***1/2) Aliens Sighted in Florida! Spend Spring Break in Another Dimension Courtesy of Walt Disney World Co. An alien encounter with a five- scream climax, a 55-mph water-slide plummet and a 13-story fall in a shaky hotel elevator ate just some of the new- est Walt Disney World thrills awaiting college students during Disney Break '96. And special student discounts add to the adventure. · February 11-April.t6, students can spend all day at any one Disney theme park for $26 ($11 off regular admis- sion), then play all night free on Plea- sure Island - home of Planet Holly- wood - with a wild street party, seven hot nightclubs, plus confetti and fireworks at midnight. To receive the total savings of more than $27 (plea- sure island regular admission is $16.95). students must present valid college ID card when purchasing the special ticket. Student thrills include: - Extral'ERRORestrial Alien En- counter at the Magic Kingdom, a sen- sory thriller from Disney and film- maker George Lucas featuring a mys- terious corporation from a distant planet attempting the teleportation of a living being through interplanetary space. The experiment goes awry with terrifying results. -Summit Plummet, the world's tallest, fastest (55-mph) free-fall speed slide awaits at Blizzard Beach, a water park themed to a Northern ski resort, complete with snow- capped mountains in the midst of a tropical lagoon. Other Blizzard Beach highlights include water-slide runs, whitewater rafting, flumes and an inner-tube run. -The Twilight Zone Tower and Terror at Disney-MOM Studios, where visitors venture into another dimension before taking a \faster- than-free-fall\ plunge from the 13th .floor down an elevator shaft ... into the Twilight Zone. - Honey, I Shrunk the Audience at Epcot, a 3-D misadventure pre- sented by Kodak that will leave stu- dents screaming - and shrinking - in their seats! For additional guest information about Walt Disney World Resort, call {407) 824-4321.

Fe~tures. Guest Writers and Ghost Writers: Typical Night By Henrik IJaeekel contributing writer It is loud. Perhaps, that speaker next to my head is giv- ing me my headache. I move away from the speaker. It is quieter. I am now standing by a door. It is now cold. It is colder then the beer in my hand. It is my first beer. There are remarkably few women here. Groups of men cluster arolind a woman or stand, daringly, by themselves. A man with a blackened eye walks by. Ire- member him. He was beaten a week earlier. There was no ac- tion taken against the offending student. He disappears into the shadows and noise. My beer is done. l find it dif- ficult to hold conversation to- night. So, I drink more. The line to get another drink ·is long. People push and shove. I am not aggressive and I bide my time patiently. Standing in line I see a group of women view- ing the crowd from the stairs. They peer endlessly into the crowd looking for someone in particular. As I look across the rest of the crowd, I see men and women doing the exact same thing. The grass is always greener on the other side. I fi.,. nally get a beer. Standing in the midst of the crowd, I drink. I drink quickly. I am having a .difficult time tonight. Once again I am standing in line for a drink. It is my third. I have been here for ten minutes. It is very crowded. One line of people moving in one direction, it runs into another line. There is a traffic jam. People push and shove, innocents· are j astled: Eventually~ the lines are disen- tangled, temporarily. I have my fourth beer. Now, I run my roommate. He sug- gests a change of location. I agree. First I grab another bev- erage for the road. Surprisingly, I have no wait. Outside we run into more crowds. The fa:ll air is cool. They sway from side to side. I sway with them. There is a girl being held. up by two young men. She is too drunk to stand on her own. As the two men hold her up, one feeds her a bottle of vodka. I tutn my head and' try to forget. r will n~ver forget. I walk for a while with my roommate. We talk like young men. We share humorous re- marks and impressions of beau- tiful women. As we arrive at our next basement, I finish my fifth cold one. Here there is less of a crowd. People sit a long the walls on benches or ledges. Small groups of people stand in the center of the floor chatting. I grab a bench and my sixth, seventh and eighth. I watch. A woman I am ftiends. with The Homeric Ideal Taken Way To() Far by Peter Sorensen Features Editor Last week I wrote about wacky dream loops, the week before encounters with teapots in lower-clas,s dining, and be- fore that about a sporadic and somewhat ethereal trip to god'\ knows-where .. .I think my brain is fried~ this past thursday I glanced at Sketch-Book Land, and I didn't understand it-I don't know ifl can fully explain the oddity of that. I really just wouldnt know how. Fortunately, I feel no com- pulsion to dwell on my own gossamer mind-fiction, or the possible lack of clarity it carries with it as baggage. I seek to effect change--but where, why? I have no idea; but I can't evade the question of why. It is too do I write a blurb of words in the paper each week? Personal gratification? A secret aspiration towards William-Satire? Certainly pos- sibilities, though I think ·it is more a fascination with .the very simple condition of being hu- , man. And I see no other way ·to view this condition but in ran- dom (and often nonsensical) sketches. My apologies. Ch-eck out this thought from Aristotle: all necessity and worry of survival aside, he be- lieved that there only existthree different paths a person could walk, and all three are similar only in that they are concerned with what is \beautiful.\ Sounds good? Keep in mind that this is Aristotle's conception of beauty. The paths are: 1) a life of bodily pleasure, in which the \beautiful\ is con- sumed and enjoyed. Sounds to me like a life-long relationship with the rave drug Ecstasy 2) a life of communal con- tribution, in which \beautiful\ deeds are done. Big-brothers/ Big-sisters squared? 3) the philosophical pusuit of eternal questions, questions which are \beautiful\ in that they are concerned with (pardon the redundancy) eternal con- cepts and remain unaffected by the philosopher. What? I searched in vain for a lifestyle choice that didn't at least fit a conglomerate of Aristotelean profile. Yes, even the prospect of emulating Pro- fessor Scullion could be some- how jammed into all three. But lets take a quick trip to antiq- uity; from this perspective, who fits the first category? Picture that curly-haired person who lay in the shade, having grapes and sits with me. We are intently watching this couple. The woman is thoroughly intoxi- cated. She is shorter then the man. She looks up into his eyes. He looks down. Her face is only inches away from his. She inches closer. He inches farther away. Like two magnets of the same charge as they are forced together, they are repelled from one another. My friend and I are am1.1sed. I take in my ninth and tenth. She and I leave to go to another party. Here people are dancing. Not uncommon, but perhaps more of a pleasant surprise. We watch. They dance very close to- gether. The lights are off and it is crowded. People now ran- domly meet and dance with one . another. They touch and feel, d11unkenly and without inhibi- tion. My frieQ.d and I dance. I am drunk. I look at my watch; it is twa a.m. She has a boy- friend. I am not interested. It is late. Time to call it. We say goodbye. I walk home by my- self in the dark. It is scary and refreshing. I sleep. Tomorrow will be the same. Everyday is the same. olives fed to him while beauti- ful women wafted cool air with large shrub branches. Beauti- ful? Surely. Ideal? Hmmm .. .. perhaps ... not. Path #2 seems to he the sort of quintessential perfect politician--if I may use sucJ't a phrase .in 1 ~9P;--pertainly ,~ot:.:great im:portanye ~n ancient Greece. The third bit-does Aristotle think himself beauti- ful? Is the great philosopher somewhat narcisstic? Well, whatever. I tend to get lost when thoughts go from the purely presentto the eternal universal. Such is the case here; this as- sessment is from the perspective of the third category, Aristotle's domain, What to do, what to think? I know: I'll toss this butt in the ashcan (#2), rub tiger balm on my nipples (#1) and ponder the significance of gravity (#3 ). Yeah, who needs survival? To be quite honest, that d_oesn't sound like such a bad afternoon; but then, what perspective do I harbour? Indeed, what perspec- tive do you harbour, dear reader? What would you do? February 22,1996 PagelS Dining s.ervices Respond: Da you all remember the Cranberry Jazz Upper-Class Dining featured last fall around turkey time? Well, we have an un-timely corrective note for those 4 7 students who asked us for recipies. Apparently there was some concern as to the bak- ing time for the cranberry, egg- white, raisin and carrot-shaving mixture. For the record, it is first placed in the boiling water, then strained onto the cookie sheets and baked for no more than 12 minutes. We're sorry for any confusion. The Deal by Bertwok Oong Handyman OK. Here's the deal. You wanr the scoop; you. gGnna, get it, eh. You~re·possibly wonder- ing why Planet C is not here right now? You think, wow, that column is so darn funny, I can't believe they cut it. Well, you don't have to sweat it too much. Planet C is not cut, it is in storage while C- -the guy you send baking tips to•-is on assignment. Where, you might ask? It 'happens to be of grave importance to the school, so I am not allowed to say. But I teU you anyway. Remember the curling rink story? Incidentally, the national curling championships are in Schenectady this year. So, any- way, our guy is on assignment, researching the ins and outs of a fabled national passtime. Its bigger than the ball-sports, and we just might have it here! I'm so excited I am twitching! Stay tuned to the Features Page!

Features BULL**** by Chris Richards Living Editor All I know is ifcursing is allowed in Time magazine, then it should be allowed in the Concordiensis. What the ****? Why not? Ifl put in a\****\, it says the same thing anyway. Replacing a \f' with a\*'' and so on, does not change the fact that it is a curse. Oh .. .I must use astericks instead of letters to protect those who are not going to fire lake. I get it. Anyway, swearing in my house goes over like a fart in church. Of the 60,000 words (last time I counted), there are four or five which are taboo. But there were friends who had the liberty of using any word they wanted. Hearing a five-year- old say f**k is unbelievable. F**k this, f**k that, f**k you. It doesn't phase the parents the slightest bit. Myself, on the other hand, would have gotten thirty whips with a wet noodle. \Chris do you think-. that- if I whipped you-with a wet noodle-that- it would hurt?!\ \Oouch. Owwwww .... \ \With a wet noodle?!!\ \Ooooh ... that would kill!\ But then there comes a point when ev- erything just caves in. [t can ~t be helped. Our parents know we curse constantly, and it just flies right out, so fast. \Hey dad, will'ya pass me the f**king salt.. .Ummmm ... whoops? Sorry \bout that. .. \ I had to slowly say,. trying so hard not to laugh. And then my clothing got hot. Somehow I had to vindicate myself to my parents, despite the fact that they already know I use at least60,000 words when not in theirpresence. And you can't he straightforward and direct about it, cause if you do, you look . like a fool. \There's nolife,ex.perience I've had that a curse cannot describe, and some- times they're the only words strong enough. \That fl'*king Slicked! That was f**king great! Good for f**king you!\ You know, you get the point. Although I wouldn't exactly recommend cursing in an interview. Not many jobs would come my way. But then again, the best reaction to the smirking, eye hid interviewers pre- plrumed wall of newspaper, is fire. Thoughts On Ramen by Jeffery Druzba Staff Writer I was hungry the other night and, as with many of us college students, I thought to myself, \Gee I could go for a package of ramen right now.\ Oh ramen, sweet scrump- tious ramen, stuff of the noodle gods! I crunched the package into 4 pieces of dried noodle brick, poured the seasoning packet in, added the water, and set the dish in the microwave for three minutes on high. Those noodles weren't all that was heating up though. My head was simmering with a few questions and observations about my forth- coming meal. I might be wrong to assume this, but I imagine that ramen is a creation of some Oriental culture. If that is the case, why is it that I've never seen any pictwes of Far East country people slurping on ramen as their\ chief source of sustenance? [n fact, why have I never seen ramen on a Chinese menu or even playing the insignificant role of a side dish at the ol' China Buffet? I think we stupid Americans have been tricked by a gath- ering of noodle companies, I imagine headquartered somewhere nearNew York City, into believing that ramen plays a similar role to that of rice. I don't even want to specu- late as to the reasons for the hoax, I'm just another stupid American wondering about my noodles. Of course, there are several ramen companies that fancy themselves the be all and end all ramen suppliers for North America. Even Campbell's Soup jumped on the ramen bandwagon and presented a sort of air dried noodle alternative which pales in compari- son to the original in my opinion. Several of these companies must think that if Amen- cans are dumb enough to believe that Eastern cultures are centered arou11d ramen, then it would only figure that they might need a little help figuring out what flavor they bought. that's where the pictures on the seasoning packet come in. As if the universal ramen color coding (URCC) and words on the outside of the ramen package weren't enough. Yellow or orange means chicken, red is always beef, light brown is pork, dark brown is mushroom, and here's a tricky one ... pink is shrimp. Blue is Oriental flavor, whatever that name implies. OK, so you missed all that. You've torn into the package and thrown it away only to wonder what flavor you are about to eat. That\ s where the seasoning packet comes in. There it is; it can't be any easier. Pictures of the flavor you are about to eat printed on the foil, and in the same URCC system as on the outside of the package. Pigs, cows; chickens, mushrooms,. and shrimp. It couldn \t be any easier for American idiots to handle. I eat a lot of the chicken flavor personally. For some reason; that's the only flavor they have in flats·of twenty at BJ' s. I've had a lot of ramen, but my favorite part still1ies within that magical seasoning packet. The source of my ramen delight is always the little pieces of dehydrated parsley. In my opinion, they make the whole dish complete. Imagine how naked those noodles would sit without the parsley. Noparsley ... no plea- sure. What about that bowl though? If I play my cards right; I mighthave this white, inde- structible, freezer and microwave safe, Corning bowl for the rest of my life. rm think- ing, \Family Heirloom.\ I've got two ofthem and I'm wondering what I'm ever going to do with them after college. That's the smallest part of it I've got ·these egg crate looking, stackable organizer things, and I can't imagine any possible use for them later in life. They wouldn't even make a worthy plant stand. It ·seems like such a waste. I mean, half of those things were sneaky college related Christmas presents. ''Oh boy Mom, it's egg crate looking, stackable organizer things!\ When I get out of this place, I'm going to have a big sale and if! have to take aloss on all the stuff, I guess that's too bad. I'll be happy to get a quarter for the wanna-be plastic plant stand. In themeantime, I'll keep· slurping on my ramen and maybe come up with some better ideas for it all. m:qe O!nncnrbie:usht February 22, 1~96 Page 16 http://www. UNION Whether you're looking for entertain- ment, sports or,. yes, even intellectual stimulation, there is no .shortage of oppor- tunity at Union College. Most people, however, don't necessarily know where to look to learn what's happening each and every week on campus. With the new tech- nology .of the World Wide Web this prob- lem has been solved. Many of you have had great fun surfing the Web off-campus to getexciting information about the world out there, but you may not know that The Office of Student Activities offers a site of Student-Oriented Information Services de- signed to make your search for intelligent life in the Union-verse simple. The Stu- dent Activities Home Pages are located at http://virtual.union.edu/~sa. Let's take a tour (Although. we can do this right here while you're reading the paper, the best way would be to log on and enter our ad- dress in the Netscape's \Location line\ - then you can actually follow along ): When you first find yourself at our main Home Page you'll be greeted with a para- graph describing what's accessible to you at our site: \We invite you to find out everything that's happening on the Union Campus. Browse our files to see events of particu- lar interest to students {9r connect to the \complete\ listings of Campus Wide Events and Student Meetings); find infor- mation on our more than 75 student clubs and organizations (including links to club Home Pages); check finance and adminis- trative infonnation from your StudentGov- emmeut; or read the new Concordiensis On-Line/' Under this introduction are four (4) choices: \What's New\ (http:l/virtual. union.edu/ -salwhatsnew/index.html) \Recognized Clubs and Organizations\ (http:/lvirtual. union .edu/ ~sg/clubs .html) \Student Government\ (http:// virtual.union.edu/-sg/index.html) and the new \Concordiensis On-Line\ (http:// virtual.union.edu/-concordy/index.html). Of course, what's exciting about the Web is that you don't need to know these addresses; you can just point-and-click to get where you want to be. The Home Page itself is accessible from the Union College Home Page, as well, under \Student and Career Services.\ Now let's look at each of the four locations you can get to from our Home Page. \What's New\ is the Student Activities News. On it you'll find a number of selec- tions: . In the Spotlight I This Week's Top Picks I Upcoming Events ·1 Club News I Admin. Nates I Finance Clicking on each of these \links\ takes you to the specific section of the document: \In the Spotlight\ highlights the major Student-Oriented event of the week. ''lhis Week's Top Picks\. is selfexplana-. tory, listing not only Student Activities sponsored events, but seminars, discus- sions, and entertainments organized by departments and groups all over campus. At the end of this section is a link to the \complete\ listing ofCampus Wide Events via the Office ofEvents (the. one you have to call to reserve any space on campus). That list offers e1•ery public event sched- uled on campus. \Upcoming Events\ is a look ahead for the next couple of weeks. \Club News\ contains information of general interest to students involved in Stu- dent Activities clubs and ends with another direct link to the Office of Events calen- dar; this one is a complete listing of meet- ings on campus (club~, organizations re- view sessions, practica, etc.) \Admin. Notes\ is of major interest to club officers regarding club membership, active status, and other IMPORTA.NT communications from the Office. \Finance\ is a section that lists informa- tion of primary interest to club treasurers including a listing of Finance Reps and their contact numbers, current Club Bud- gets, and Finance Committee Meeting times, CLUB OFFICERS PLEASE NOTE: THESE HOME PAGES WILL NOW BE 1HE ONLY WAY THE STUDENT AC- TIVITIES OFFICE Wll..L COMMUNI- CATE GENERAL INFORMATION TO YOU. No more wasted paper! Please get used to checking it Fegularly, ... and that '.s the end of the \What's New\ section. Now, the others: \Recognized Clubs and Organizations\ is a list of all the groups recognized by the Student Forum. Those with funding are designated ~~Activities\ and those without are \Organizations.\ Clubs' Home Pages can be accessed directly from this list (for those that have them. If you'd like your club to develop a Home P~ge. stop in and we'll be happy to help). \Student Government\ is a link to the Student Forum Home Page. All informa- tion from the Student Handbook (which details all procedures and regulations for club spending and administration) and the SGA Constitution and Bylaws are here. Also posted are detailed minutes of Stu- dent Forum meetings (where you can fmd out what was discussed a11d whether your club got funding) and lists of Club Bud- gets, Forum Members, and campus-wide Committee members. The last link completes the set .that makes the Student Activities Home Pages the place to find out what's happening at Union College. Concordy On .. Line is the state- of-the-art electronic version of Concordiensis, the student newspaper of Union College, complete with articles, let- ters and advertisements. The Student Activities Home Pages ex- ist to make easier the dissemination of in- formation from and to the students of Union College. A lot of work has gone into creating its various pages, but you'll find that next to no work is required to use it. Please do. It'll be worth your while. Never again will you have to wonder- what's happening, and you can access all of it right from your Residence Hall room or the Web Browsers located in the CC Atrium or in the Multicultural Center in CC308.- Lee Rose Sometimes Jjust sit and think of .\11mmer. My nose can almost smell the fresh . air, the purple flowers, and the moonlit nights which are intoxicating and seductit•e. My lips remember, too well, . the odd flavor of a joint pressed . between them and the drops of naked water falling quickly away. The nerves in 1iiy toes still touch leaves of grass . prossing hardagai\nst a soft, . forgiving soil. ' Myearshear waves crashing, crickets. humming, streetcars and saxophones. But my eyes see only the glow of morning, the twinkling of Orion s belt -and my $OUI is still drowning in you.

A Hawk in Throw of Nature byDaveEder Living Editor Hawk woke up an hour and a halfbefore sunrise on Saturday. He got out of bed and started boiling water fer tea. As he. waited for the water to boil, he thought about his plans for the day. Although Hawk enjoyed acting spontaneously, he be- lieved it to be important to live deliberately. All of his actions were calculated and serene. Even the way he made tea was a pre• cise science. He applied his best efforts to the most simple acts. He added just the right amount of tea and cinnamon to the wa- ter. He poured the tea while, qui- etly reflecting. on the way the tea flowed. He dran.kitoutofasmall cup, because that allowed the tea to staywannintheteapotwhile he would finish the cup before the tea cooled down. too much. He enjoyed every exquisite drop of tea. In this way Hawk had incorporated meditation in aU of his actions. He did not think about the day before, nor tl1e year before. He concentrated on the task at hand and tl1at task was living. Each day he revealed a little more of himself to Life and each day Life revealed a little more oflts mys- tery to Hawk. He recited a line from Dostoevski that he had once read. \If thou love each thing, thou wiJ.t perceive the mystery of God in all; and when oncethouperceivethis, thou wilt thenceforth grow everyday to a fuller understanding of it; unto thou come at last to love the whole world with a love that will then be all embracing and uni- versal.\ \But how do I love the whole world?\ Hawk asked himself wishing that he could ask Dostoevski. ''I try to feel love for everyone and everything, but how to show my love, ·how to prove my love, I do not know.\ \Well I will try·to understand. Maybe that is enough for ri~ht now.\ Hawksaid. After finishing his second cup of tea he washed the tea pot and cup. He then grabbed his back pack and fly-rod and walked out his small house. The air that hit him was cold but inviting. ·He took de~p breaths and long strides as he made his '\\fay through the woods. The woods began to come alive as the sun started· igniting the ,$ky. But Hawk did not need sunlight to find his way through the woods I. down to the stream. He had ex- plored every inch of the forest and delighted in the opportunity to enter its sphere of influence. By the time he came to the clear- ing in the woods which held his /stream, the sun had begun to climb over the mountains in the distance. \It looks as if the sun is shy. It creeps slowly over the mountain as if it is making sure that it is safe to come out.\ Re- marked Hawk. Even before he reached the stream Hawkhacl noticed the trout feeding. The trout were rising to the surface of the water and sip- ping flies off of it The trouts seemed to be sending kisses into the air as theirntouths popped oqt of the water. When he reached the stream, Uawk looked at the water to see what kind of fly the fish were eating. He recognized the type of fly, buf'he<didnotknow its·nanie, not did Hawk really care to know what the fly was called. He carefully caught one out of the · air, examined it, and then' released it. He'then began to tie an artificial fly. As he tied the fly, a deer walked up to the stream. It was on the other side of ·the stream but only about twenty yards from Hawk. Hawk whisp.ered, \Hello my · friend.;, He said itjustloud enough so thattl.te deer would heru; it. The deer ·slowly raised its head and looked at Hawk. It flapped its tail and then lowered its head again to · drink the water that was always flowing. ''It's funny how the deer is not scared of me now, but in a few months when the hunting sea- son opens it will know to fear me,\ thought Hawk. He finished the .fly and had tied it onto his fly line. He waited until the deer finished drink-. ing and then he said, \Goodbye my friend, I enjoyed your com- pany.\ Then he stood up and the deer leaped back into the woods. The stream was small and clear so Hawk stood back from the river bank so the fish would not see him. \I don't want you to see my shadow and swim away thinkillg that I am a real hawk.\ He said in the direction of the feeding fish. He cast the fly up into a riffle where he had seen some fish feeding. He would cast upstream and each fol- lowing cast was placed slightly further upstream than the previ6us one. This was done so he would not spook any fish with the fly- line. A trout came up to t~e his fly, but Hawk got excited and pulled the fly out of the water be- fore the· fish had reached the fly. \I tend to mi'ss many more-than I get. I wonder if the fish miss a lot of reat:llies?'' Hawk thought to hims~lf~ Then he told'the fish, \My misfOrtune is· your good·fortune ,as' your poor aim is a fly's happi- ·rness.\ ·· Thr¢'e casts later Iiawk'hooked a trout,; .but the hook popped out of its n)outh. ·\All that splashing has scared the fish ·out of that hol'e,\ said Hawk. He stripped in his line and moved upstream to a deeper ',pool of water. He saw no fish fe~ding on the surface so he changed his fly to an imitation of an aquatic bug. He cast on the outside; edge of the pool and with each cast he laid the fly a little fur- ther into the pool. He carefully mended the line to keep the cur- rent from dragging the fly in irregu- lar pattern. \Some peoplethinkthe · fish are smart enough to know that a fly should float smoothly in the water and will not eat something that does not float naturally. · I don't think you are so smart. I think you are just lazy.\ Hawk said while he laughed. On his next casthe hooked an- other trout. It was a rainbow tFout. 'the fish came bursting out of the water showing Hawk the entire spectrum of colors that were painted (In its side by God. It re- minded Hawk of the clouds that trapped the sun's light in the morn- ing. Hawks' rod was bent into a half circle as the fish fought its way . . ' down the stream. Hawk was con- nected to the fish and realized that he had become part of the fish and that the fish was part of him. Hawk jumped into the water and reeled in line as he chased the fish down- stream. \I tnust stop the fish be- fore ,it reaches the fast water, or else I will never catch him with this thin line.\ He recalled Melville's great novel and thought, \This is not the size of a whale, but it is a 'fast fish,' and I do not intend to allow it to become a 'loose fish.\' He knew that there was more meaning to the tel'Jlls \fast fish\ and \loose fish,\ but he wasn't sure what it was. He stopped the fish's progress and turned it to- ward him. \Now I only have to fightagainstthe current.\ The fish could not tum back downstream and Hawk easily brought the fish in. With one swoop Hawk grabbed the fish, took the hook out of its mouth, and tllrew it on the bank ... continaednext week ... CAfFA E c~eehouse \\\ go\\er~ * ··-· ........ ------- ·- \~2. OQ~ street . Sdlen~~ ?Al--2.~· . A\so ai\A\ho.ft!J at 21' \.QI-\<. st. \0,-o· tl\scoun\ ~\\l Un\ol\ w.

Fungi Caught in Torrid Sex Scandal By Dennis Popeo Science and Medicine Editor asexual because no scientist had observed the species having sex. Coccidiodes immitis infects It is rather easy to tell if people through its airborne people are having sex; there is spores. People inhale the spores certain amount of gfUJlting and which inhabit the desert soil and bumping that is required. Fungi wind of the arid Southwestern are a bit more subtle about their deserts. Once in the lungs, the mating habits. At first, theques- fungus begins to grow and tion of fungal sex seems silly; spread throughout the body. who really cares whether or not Most people infected suffer a fungus is a celibate organism? only minor symptoms because Apparently, many researchers their immune systems can do care, and the answer to this quickly kill off the fungus. One personal question may hold the third ofthose infected, however, key to the cure for people will suffer Valley Fever, which stricken with diseases caused by includes fatigue, chest pain and a fungus. a cough for several months. In One such disease is Valley a small minority ofthese people, Fever. It is caused by the fun- the disease is fatal. · gus Cocci diodes immitis, which Researchers at the University infects 50,000 to 100,000 at California at Berkeley and people, and kills fifty to one Roche Molecular Systems in hundred people a year in the Alameda, California, were able Southwest. Learning about the· 'to·pirtpoint the sexual habits of· reproductive patterns of this this fungus by some telltale evi- organism will eventually lead dence, besides offspring, that is scientists to a vaccine, and a left behind after sex. cure for the disease. It was When organisms reproduce commonly thought that this fun- sexually, one individual mixes his gus, and others like it, were or her DNA with the DNA of the other individual, in order to make genetically new offspring. If an organism is reproducing asexually, all offspring will be genetically identical to the par- ent. By looking at the genetic makeup of the offspring then, sexuality c.anbe determined. By looking for this ev-idence, re- searchers can test indirectly weather or not the fungi were having sex. In a labo- ratory de- signe.d to contain dangerous pathogens, _ speC'ies of fungi were taken from 25 patients and cul- tured. Re- se:archers. ~~ then probed genes. What researchers two new genetically unique found, however, was a unique cells. The second method in- combination of genes from each volves cellular, b\Ut not nuclear, of the 25 c.ultures, a pattern that fusion. The chromosomes then could only be explained by return to the correct number by sexual reproduction. a haphazard loss cf genetic ma- In order to make sure that the teria:l. This te(jhnique is \known fungi were mating sexually, es- as parasexuality. pecially since no copulation was Coccidiodes .immitis is a bit observed, the researchers made different thou_gh. It appears to fungus family trees, much like use another method of sex that the family trees that humans use. can create tottll:y new genetic These trees also types each time it reproduces. indicated that This makes theinfection of this sexual rt;;pro- fungus a lat 111<>re dangerous duction was than it wa,s thought, and also going on. While explains certain localized out- researchers are breaks of Valley Fever in Cali- certain that the fomia. 14 differenbgene ·.regions: in . · Coccidio des Researchers consider this immitis funsus finding a. revolution, not be- is having sex, . cause it proved that a species they have. yet to qf fungus ,has :Se-x, but because observe it, or th~ technique.s used have not even g~e,ss the been utilized in this manner ever techniques that before. It is impcrtant to study the fm,1gi are fungal infectiorls because they are one of the major killers of those infected with AIDS. With the numbers of AIDS victims on the rise, the sex lives of fun- gus will begin to 2et much more attention. each of the 25 cultures of fun- using. gus. If the fungus reproduced At present, there are two asexually, researchers expected known techniques to fungus to see only a few of the many sex. One method has the cells possible combinations of the and nuclei of the fungi fusing and then dividing to retur.n to Aphrodisiac Anyone If you are feeling depressed that the fungus in the last story was having a better time in the bedroom than you are, or if you were left sad and dejected on last Wednesday because nobody filled your box (mailbox, that is) with flowers and candy, do not fear. The Concordy has brought you some great aphrodisiacs and love potions that will perk up your love life. Aphrodisiacs have been used for centuries to inspire devotion, bring back lost loves, or enhance sexual perfor- mance. Today, aphrodisiacs are usually found in two forms, Aroma therapy and herbal rem- edies. Aroma therapy essential oils: Rose: is beneficial as a sexual stimulant for women. Drive her wild by making love in a bed of roses. Just remove the thorns, unless you take pleasure in a bit of pain. Jasmine: This is used to ease problems of anxiety, frigid- ity and impotence. Sandalwood: This oil in- spires tranquillity and sexual res- toration. Patchouli: This oil is com- monly used to elicit a sexual re- sponse, but I find that it makes me want to vomit. Herbal Remedies: Ginseng: This root has been used for centuries to increase well-being, stamina and sexual endurance. American Ginseng is the mildest of the herb and is recommended for prolonged use. Chinese and Korean Gin- seng are known rejuvenators and stimulants. Siberian Gin- seng is the strongest and ac- cording to Vedec texts from In- dia \can bestow the power of the bull on all men, young and old.\ Perhaps we can talk Din- ing Services into putting it in all foods, all the time, starting now. Damiana: This shrub con- tains alkaloids which stimulate nerves and sex organs and also act as a mild muscle relaxant. When dtunk at bedtime, it can induce erotic dreams. It also increases sperm count in men, and evens hormone imbalance in women. Bee Pollen: This stuff is technically a food and comes from the anthers of flowering plants. It contains many nutri- ents, but most importantly, stimulates the sex glands. A couple of teaspoons a day will give new meaning to the phrase \Busy as a Bee.\ In the dog eat dog social scene at Union College, you need as much of an edge as you can get. All of the aphrodisiacs can be found at GNC or by call- ing The Flower Essence Soci- ety at 1-800-548-0075. june 2-July 27, 1996 '. ' .... • You're a liberal arts major. '· , • You enjoy your field of study. You're good ill it. • Now build on your talents and accomplishments! Want to explore the possibility of a career in international businessf The Cornell University Summer Program in International Business will provide an under- standing of the global economy and the skills needed to succeed in the business world. Business leaders stress the importance of the abilities and perspectives developed by a liberal arts education in today's global business environment. These include the ability to reason critically and to solve problems; research and communication skills; and the knowledge and appreciation of other cultures. To these abilities, the Cornell University Summer Program in International Business will add and certify a coherent body of knowledge and skills directly related to international economic activity. ' ' \ . All students in the Summer PreJgram in International Business- take the following four courses. (There are no course prerequi- sites.) Participants who successfully complete the program will receive twelve credits and a formal Cornell University certificate. • Government 331 The Political Environ- ment of International Business • H urn an Resources 468 Organization and Hurnal'l Resources Management Simulation· • Economi<s 206 Economics in Interna- tional Perspective • Economics 105 Introduction to Finan- cial and Mar:tagement Accounting Schoot of Continuing td~Jcation and Summer Sessions , B2!1Da;y :rf:a:U~ Ithaca, NY 14853-2801 · telephoM: 6072$5 .. 72'59 E-mail: sp@sce.col'nell.edu Web $ite: httpi//www.sce.corneiLedu/CUSS/ ·-·-·-· i: r i t \i a r r a c c J r r r ( { I ~; r I r ' r ( ~ I r l t

i \ l' ·I l Judicial Review Daniel Lewis President Pre-law Soc!ety The Union Pre-law Society is a woup that was just recently reestablished to explore careers in law and the legal system. At this time, we have a p pr oxi- mately 50 members and every- one is wel- come to join. Our mission is not only to inform members of .the Union Col- lege Com- munity about Law schools and LSAT' s, but also to expl9re many different .fields of Law. With the recent flood of Crimi- nal Law into our homes be-· cause of the O.J. Si.mpson trial and Court TV. many students may be interested in litigation. But what aboUt all of the other types of legal careers and in ... ternships available? We want to enlighten ourselves in the careers of Environ- mental Law, International Law, and important topics in the legal system today. Come see what we have to offer. 0 n Wednes- day, Febm- ary1 28, n..-a w n / ;Cbamberlaine lfrom Al- bany Law School Ad .. missions will speak to ourcom- munity. The time and location of this event will be posted soon. She will discuss the requirements for law school admissions,. financial aid, and more. If you would like to .join the Pre-law Society. or have any ·questions about our group, contact Dan Lewis at 370-4942 or John Vero at388·7116. Psychology The Psychology Club is open to all who are interested in Psychology and related topics. Over the past year and a half we sponsored many activities, such as \Pizza with the Profs\ and last week's \Bagel Brunch,\ which gave the students and professors opportunity to chat with each other outside of the classroom. We have had panels of students and professors dis- cuss topics of great importance to Psych students; these dis- cussions have been aimed at freshmen and sophomores (\Every- l thing You Wanted to Know About a Major in Psychology But Were Afraid to Ask\) as well as Juniors and Seniors (''What You Can Do with a Major in Psychology/How to Get into Grad School\). We also sponsored Naik Bengali, the hypnotist who drew SRO crowds to the CC Auditorium and made complete fools of some of our friends. We hope to continue these activities, but we need your participation to do so! Stay tuned this term for information on two more panel' discussions. If you have any questions, suggestions and/or are inter- ested injoining the Psych Club, call Cari Bishop at 364..:6125 or Sharon Malkemus at x5915. . Bridge Anyone?? Okay, admit it,.all Y?U re- like perhaps your grandpar- pated in a national collegiate ally know about bndge IS that ents, play for entertainment tournament. Rob Hagopian your parents and grandparents and social interaction. Oth- and James Bascom took third play. Actually, bridge is played ers, like many of the players place in the country, behind more often around the world on campus, play for the in- Dartmouth and the University than any other competitive tense competition. of Pennsylvania. At the same ga~~· There are roughly 30 . The Bridge Club here at tournament, Martiqua Post miHIOn people around the Umon requires nothing at all and Jon Zandman took sec- world who play. It even beats of it's members. It is more of ond in the Novice Section. soccer, the world's most popu- a contact group. Those who Union students have ac- lat sport, b ref- quired a very good erence to the reputation i-n -local number of tournaments for being hours that it is not only competitive played. players, but for their So why ethics as well. This so many people networking has led to playing a game some very good job that you thought offers and improved was probably relationswiththecom- boring? Well, quite frankly, you were wrong. Bridge take~ all the logic and strategy of ·~spades\ and adds to it the competitive bidding from 1 'pitch.n While bridge rivals the most intellectual games intheworld, it is also a very social and in- are in the club have a list of others who play' and they set up their own games. The club has o~ganized free lessons for any~ne on campus who is in- tere5ted, and all tournament fe~s are paid for by the club ·as w~ll. teractive game. Some people, ,.. Last term Union partici- munity. In March, those in the club who can will be going to Philadelphia to compete at Nationals with over 5,000 other Bridge play- ers from around the country. (For more information, con- tact James Bascom hy e- nrail or@ 370-1320) Union's Literary Magazine Invites Your C . . '' reatzvzty .. 1. Stories 2. Poems 3. Artwork 4. Photography Submit to ·Box #878 or 11 THE IDOL SUBMISSION BOX\ (at the mailroom) ~ Bring your work to the forefront J

~ ' . I BUTCH AND DOUGIE by ALEX HOWELL. YUP! tJ0 OOlBf A80Jf l1\. SIM! \ISCAR~L <iN~ I ACROSS J Tropic11l rodent 5 J 773 jetsam 8 Ollie's pal 12 Culture medium 13 LBJ pooch 14 .. HI. sailor! .. J 5 Unadulterated 16 Stately tree 17Confines 18 Einstein 20 •Hooray I .. 22 Fat farm 23 l..ead-in to plunk or . p1op 24 Berra had a hand in it 27 Not eoastal 32Tny contents 33Japanese drama 34 Cubbies· home 3.SBnmch entree 38Veme seaman 39Gearpart 40Loveseat OCCIIpiiiC)' 42 Platonism, e. a. 45 Vacationer's e~~r,maybe 49\Sadto say ... \' 500rutssis 52 Tweety's home 53 Ready for action 54 Mauna- 55 Gumbo base 56 Rcx:k band's equipment 57 90-deJree ansle 58 Aveta8e UOWN I 11.roe 2 Novelist James 3 \\'fhe God- father .. cut 4 Studio star 5 Charteris hero 6 Serpentine sea dweller 7 lfosl 8 Soldier who digs rrenchea Of..\, 12eAt.t.Y .it ..,ow\? 9 1968 Miller play 10 Top· rated 11 AMF.X COUhlerplrt 19 Awake 21 Mamie's man 24 Lon~ March leader 2S Doctrine 26 Wallace Beery movie ( 1931) 28 .. Wttyne •• World\ expletive 29 kllflc• work lO Resistance lihil 31 So1ithAmeriean resottcity 36 Unaethen 371 38 Sarge, e.J. 41 Undbersh book 421t•salona story 43 Reticent ()he 44Talk-show hostess Ricki 46Snatch 47 Pearl Mosque site 411nc:llnc .SI Kinsman: abbr. ·· : \Dr .. Jones will check. your heart. ·Or. Snipes will check ·· your lungs. And Dr: ,arad will ask you to couqh. • \I think he'll enjoy his walk more :Jf you put the loash on the other end ... VIsion Teaser '9 •nluof If lncdi..Dl'W/t\ \S \1\Wa.iJ!P li! I!RS \t ·p~pt 1!. '-'Ri •)!d \£ ·~lllllf' Sf~ 't \p;tAOWU aft lllniO • j :sa:lUU3.Uf<l

· Petsonal~ltbd Cla.ssifieds . SOCJ.U., ISSUES DISCUSSION GROUP Topic: •m Union Sbukm Boqwp,obic?• Date: w,~~n .. .sa,, Feb111111'12l, 1996 Time: 6:90 - 1:00 p.m. ~: Soqtd Scknc•t lAunge DinDer 1riJI.be provided. Pre-~ witb 'SOcioloiY Dept.- Janet McQuade (XQ92). U you have :lily .questions, call Linda Relyea (X6008}. I Ll1dlTED· TO 15 PEOPLE. ' The Rathskellar will now be open late night-on Friday::(tnd Saturday· eveftings- < fro,fli ·l)_:()Opm- midnight. Meal eq uivale~·cies are._ also accepted as·. on weekdays, and bottled beer will be offered 9 .. ·00pm-midnight .. So come in and enjoy a midnight snack with your friends and listen to the jukebox. Play your favorite tunes ... rr. 4\'\ _.. _ _ r . \ r~tr~-. ...... .,_ ... J< . _ • _ , r ·\\t .. .. ., 'Mqt <!Ian.cnrbieusis • Februa Take Kaplan and get a higher score ••• ••• or your money back!* we have the -great teachers and powerful test-taking strategies you need. LSAT, 'MCAT, and GRE p~eparation classes beginning soon._ · get • higher score 1 ... 80d-KAP-TEST KAPLAN Stu-yv-esant Plaza • ·Alban Become a KAPL:AN'STUDENT REP. Eam extra rooney & 'IIOfl< flexible hours. can 489-0077 for details. /SpJend,gr.ll! ~tone - ,.. , ' '! I ~ - ' ~- This renowned exhibit from the State Museum at Albany of spectacular color photographs of thin sections of rocks visits the Nott Memorial on the Union College campus January 22 to February 29 Thin sections are slices of rock 1 /850th of an inch thick, glued to glass. Seen through a polarized light micro- scope, the rocks have colors and patterns that astonish and amaze! In addition to being unusual and dramatic abstract art, the colors and patterns can tell geologists about the minerals present and how the rock formed. Open to all! You won't believe such images are real! Vermont schist, plane polarized light (actual width is 8 mm)

Sports 'dtlye Olom:nrlriensis • Febr,Qary 22, 1996 • Page 22 IN1'RAMURAL l.JPDATE . \A\ BASKETBALL DUTCHWOMEN END WITHAWIN LEAGUE I . PF PA by Hilary Prouty contributing writer The women's basketball team had a rough season, ending with a record of 5 wins. This past weekend they went on the road one last time to take on Skidmore and RPI. The Dutchwomen fell into the clutches of Skidmore, losing by 14. On Saturday, the women traveled to RPI for their last game of the 1995-1996 season. Deteiminednotto whimper out, despite the ankle injury.ofleading scorer Amy Hitz and the loss of the day before still lurking in their minds, they came out strong. RPl offered some strong post play along with two girls nailing the three pqinter whenever they had the chance. The Dutch women matched RPI well at!d -led by 6 at halftime. During the second half, they came out stronger. In the end, .with the cushion of a few one and one free throws, they pulled out a 61-50 victory ... The effort of every player this year has not been overlooked. Everyone, includ- ing new and old faces, are credited for sticking out the season, learning a new game plan, and enjoying the time on the court too. Coach Mary Ellen Burke set a goal for tournament play next season and the expectations f()t the team are even higher. Watch out next year for the power of the Dutchwomen and the hopes. of a successful season. Robots 3-0 Lambs 3-0 Delta Phi 2-1 Blue & Gold 2-1 Phi Delt 1-2 Beef 0-3 lEAGUED TDChi 3·0 Crown Us 3-0 SigChi A 2-1 Beta Boys 2-1 Sam Devious 1-2 Davidson 1-2 To Be Deter. 0-3 Bomb Squad0-3 \B\ BASKETBALL LEAGUE I SigChiB 3~0 Phi Sig 3·0 TheLodge2-1 Rejects 2-1 ZBT 1-2 420 1-1 AEPI 0-3 185 182 58 125 66 115 PF 132 159 169 170 137 109 172 154 PF 180 104 115 82 155 65 86 lEAGUED PF Mixed Results for the Fiji A. 3-0 128 Conglomeration 3-0 164 Ewok's 3-0 179 Fiji B 2-1 95 Skating Dutchman Southern C.omf 1-2 148 . Milwaulcee' s _p.-3 124 Sad but triie Q- 3 96 Al'sCrew 0-3 103 by Dagan LaCorte staff writer This weekend the Skating Dutchmen trav.ele~td Vermont and New Hampshire to face the Catamounts the Big Green of Dartmouth. The Dutchmen were in need. of points since they are in conten- tion for the final playoff spot in the ECAC. The Dutchmen were success- ful in their endeavor, as they picked up two points versus Dartmouth on Satur- day. TI1e Dutchmen have had little success ·when playing at Vermont, scoring only two goals in their last four games there. Once again the Catamounts were able to easily defeat the Dutchmen, this time by the score of 4-1 . Freshmen goalie Leeor Shtrom made his second consecu- tive start in goal and played extremely well, making 37 saves. Union's only goal of the game came in the first period while Vermont was leading 1-0. Ryan Donovan tallied the Dutchmen's sole goal, on assists by Charlie Moxham and Reid Simonton. The Dutchmen had greater success the following night, gaining their third win of the season on a late goal by captain Reid Simonton. Sophomore goalie Trevor Koenig started in goal on Saturday, making 18 saves. The Dutchmen opened the scor- ing five minutes into the second period, MEN''SBROOMBALL as Jamie Antoine converted a Jay IEAGUEI Prentice pass from Scott Boyd, giving ~~d:~ the Dutchmen their first lead of the week- Isles end. Dartmouth evened the score at 1- Phi Delt 1 before Reid Sitqonton g;:tve the Dutch- 0 Phi men the lead again. ~imonton, follow- Psi U ing a penalty kill, skated the puck up the AEPI ice, made a nice move, and shot it by the Phi Sig Dartmouth goaltender. Once again the Big Green tied the score, making it 2-2 LEAGUED after two periods. Sig Chi The Dutchmen mounted a great deal Rugby of pressure in the third period, but it was Lambs not until late in the period that they tal- TO Chi lied the winner. Captain Reid Simonton Whales picked up a Craig Reckin pass, just in- . ZBT · side the Dartmouth zone, and blasted it past the helpless Big Green net-minder. LEAGUEill Cool Guys Fiji The win marked tbe Dutchmen's first league win since January 6. With four games remaining in the sea- son, the Dutchmen have to make their playoff run. Of the four remaining games, two are against teams well be- low .500. This weekend the Dutchmen hit the road facing Cornell and Colg1:1te, two teams that have had a great deal of success this season. The Dutchmen have never won a game at Colgate, but have had success at Cornell, winning twice. SigChiB Southern Cornf. Blue& Gold Sliding Dutch. Glazer MEN'S ICE HOCKEY LEAGUE I Southern Cornf. Old Time Hockey SigChi No Good Game Hens 3,.() 2-0-1 2-1 1-1-1 l-2 1-2 0-2-1 0-2-1 4-0 3-1 2-2 2-2 1-3 04 4-0 3-1 3-1 3-1 1-3 1-3 1-3 4-0 3-0-1 2-1-1 1-3 1-3 127 103 82 114 124 155 PA 102 102 152 177 172 135 183 179 PA 124 88 110 % 164 95 97 PA ro 116 127 114 168 189 121 137 GF GA 12 04 11 (Jl 01 (X) 03 02 03 04 03 03 02 (X) 03 10 GF GA 26 02 0) 04 05 05 04 07 03 12 01 15 GF GA 14 02 07 03 11 (Jl fJ7 02 02 (Xj 01 14 01 04 GF GA 34 f1l 20 08 26 15 13 37 15 12 PsiU 12 LEAGUER ..__ .. - CF Molso11 Ice 4-0 48 Golden Anniv, · 2-2 21 PhiDelt 1·3 19 29 TDChi 1-3 15 35 CO-RECVOLLEYBALL LEAGUE I 1068 4-0 SigChi 3-1 JoMannna 3-1 BMNF. 2-2 White Feet 1-3 MUSIC! MUSIC! ana more MUSIC! L • e Shows rv I I st . n·. RANCID- PEARLJAM- LIVE- ETHERIDGE BUSH- RAM ONES PORNO FOR PYROS PHISH-DEAD DAVEMATIHEWS BJORK- BEASTIES and lots more ..• 41 GA 16 23 r 'VMc7 iiur.- N-: -FioE~\i 8N;. :; 8 iT'B 2i 6- ~ i I HOJ,LYH.OOD, FLORIDA .33 20 I · · Do You Want VIsA·& Mastercard credi-t Cards? - .. . - . . - Now \\u ~n ••• ove ..,.,., or I he tr10el reeosniU:d and • YI~S' -· ' aca:pted credit canis In the Mrld ... VIsaf9 and MasterOnde a . ., .....::: • lwantVISA. 8 /MA$TEJlCI\R(JeCrn.~lt , cn:dlt eards..:ln your name.\ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I cardsapproval lrtlll1edlalely. 1001\-\ OUARAtfTEEDI I ClttDIT or IIAVE BEEN 1URNED DOWN BEFOREI 1 1 VfSAtt lind Mastetearde lhc cn:dlt cards you I 1 deserw and need ror- 10-BOOKs-DEI'AirrMENT 1 NAME 1 STORES--TUITION-ENTERTAINM Etrr- EMEROE~Y CASU-TICKETS-nESTAURJ\NTS- : ADDRESS ----·- -·. : II(J.l'ELS-MOTELS-G\5-CAR RENTALS- REPAIRs-AND TO BUilD YOUR CREDIT RAUNGI I CrtY STA'fE - Zlfl ----- I •• I p·HONE. 5 I 1'_,,. fto turn downs I I .s.• • -~ . .... • f. I &'1E.\t~t no cred t chectsl · SIGNA11JRE ·-- -·- I \'l.~~~J1.!!: :e• Ro secur tty depos t t I I NOT£: ,.,,,s,ne.nt ., , ~''~\\' tnik-rnatt. d ~tnOint lntrmllll<trltl. '\' I v~ .,U\• SEND TfiE COUPON TODAY I VIsa 1!11 ~l'ltrml b:adtnllrk ol \IISA.IISJI..Ir\1\. ••llf VI~ lntrru:lllnr.•l I YoUR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAlliNG! I I:'CJI.i:IU!I•IiUJi14•JIJJOJ:II•1•J:U 1 ..._----~--------~----~---------------------------------JI . . I -------------------------

.. '. :...l'' ~ Page 23 February 22, 1996 '(!l:qe OJoncorbitnsis Sports Union Track Performs Well at Inaugural UCAA Meet Haver Breaks Three-Point Record .by MikeLeding Assosciate Sports Editor . · At the Upstate Collegiate Athletic As- sociation fudoor track and Field Champi- onships the women and men's teams had some more surprising performances while qualifying more competitors for states, and also one provisionally forNationals. Dave Riggi ran a personal record of 6.53 se.conds in the 55 meter dash giving him a chance to participate in Nationals. The teams com- peting at thi~ meetwen~RPI, St. Lawrence, Hamilton, and Union. The top four finish- ers in each ev(lnt scored points. For the women, freshinanDanielle 'Steele won the 55 meterhurdles ina time of :9 .. 22 seconds quallfying herself for states. Danielle also qualified for states in the long jump with a leap of 4.99 meters placing her- self second. In the 1000 meters, Jessica Goveiaplacedthirdin a time of3: 18.21 quali- fying l1erself for states. In the 3000 meters, Amelia Audette once again set a personal record with a timeof11:22.30. In theSOOO meters Sara Mclntoshplacedthird in a time of21 :27.14 afterrurming 31 grueling laps. The woman finished fourth outof the four teams, but scored well with only alimited number of competitors. Thanks to those who put- in the effort and won't be going to states, and also to those on their way to states .. For the men, the 4x800 meter relay team ofMike Leding, Seth Rudin, Nick Conway, and Pete Flynn jogged their way to first place in a time of8: 16 .. 58, destroying· their nearest competitor by 20 seconds. In the men's long jump, Jas9n Jennings pla~ed third with a leap of 5.81 meters. In the 35lb. weight throw Pike Mody once again set a personal record with a throw of 9.74 fiJ~ters, ending his season on a high note. In the pole vault Dan Porter cleared 10 feet. ln the 1500 meters Seth Rudin ran a4:J9.89to place fourth. In the 400 meters Mike Leding placed third in a time of:53.41, and Jason Jennings placed fourth in a time of:54.80. Russ Stram ran his best race of the year in the 500 meters to place second in a time of 1:09.27, just :00.15 seconds behind first place and qualifying himself for states. Dave Riggi placed second in the 55 meters in a time of :6,53 seconds as alluded to ear- lier. Riggi also came back to get second in the 200 meters in a time of :23.80 seconds. In the 800 meters Pete Flynn and Nick Conway kept their streak going by getting first and second in every 800 they've run this year. Pete now having won three times and Nick once. Pete ran a2:02.75, and Nick a2:02.96. Goingintothe4x400 meter relay the men from Union and Hamilton were dead tied. Union hadn't 9eaten Hamiiton in a meet all year, but also hadn't lost to what Hamilton claims to be a 4x400 meter relay team all year. So Hamilton tried to psyche themselves up to no avail as the team ofNick Conway, Mike Leding, Russ Stram, and Pete Flynn got prepared to take care of business. Nick led off in a two way tie for first handing off to Leding in the second lane where he stayed for the first 60 meters and then dusted Hamilton's sec- ond leg to hand off in first to Stram who opened up an even bigger lead for Flynn who had to just b<tsically jog around the track as Hamilton's anchor leg tried as hard as .he could on his way to helping his team break 3:40 for the first time this year in 3:39.51, butUnionhavingruna3:35.36 ba~ sically had their sweats back on by the time Hamilton crossed theline. Well Hamilton tried at least. Good luck to all of these going to states, stay serious tl)is week as we try to score as many points as possible to place what could be our highest finish in the last six year!;. Jon Gasthalter Contributing Editor A disappointing season is coming to a clase for the Union College basketball Dutchmen. After starting out winning their first two games, the Dutchmen have dropped their last ten, with the team's last win coming against Clarkson on January 20th. In addition to its los- ing record, the Dutchmen have lost five players since the start of the year including Shola and Doyin Richards who are out indefinitely with a congenital heart problem. Although the sea- son has not been a memorable one, the play of some of the members of the team stands out in the .by Greg Kalish Staff Writer Picture yourself on a boat on a river with marmalade trees and some girl with kaleidoscope eyes, or some- thing like that. What? The world is a vampire. Huh? It was a relatively quiet week in the world of sports. In a long awaited match-up, the New York Mets opened the 1996 baseball season with a pick-up game against the Venetian national soccer team at the Acropolis is Greece, the neutral site agreed upon by the gov- ernments of each respective coun- try. It was 2-2 going into the tenth when rookie right-fielder and part- time sweeper Andoro (last name not included in your program) misjudged a fly ball hit by Rico Brogna, allow- ing itto land against the statue of Zeus which, as everyone knows, results in the commencement of immediate inhumane torture until death for the batsmen, but more importantly, ad- vances the runner two base~. This should have allowed to Mets to score the go-ahead run but, a mental error on the part of base runner Ryan Th- ompson who forgot that only the goalie can use his hands, resulted in him being called out and the game continuing into another extra-session. Perhaps an argument on his behalf from the manager would have been helpful, but Dallas Green was trying to cut a deal with a vendor for a Span- ish speaking watch he wanted to pur- chase for his wife and was not pay- ing attention to the game. This costly lapse lost the Mets a chance for a t- O record which would have been their best start since the flood. They even- tually lost the game when, just an in- ning later. the Venetian manager Blanco Blinds asked Greek national . hero Spartacus to pinch-hit in a the minds' of fans, most notably that of senior guard Jamie Haver. On Friday, February lOth, in the Dutchmen's 10 1-7 4 defeat to St. Lawrence, Haver tied the Union College single-season record for three-pointers of 84 by making four th:t:ee-pointers in the game. The stage was set on Friday night, February 16th at Skidmore for Haver to break Jerry Brescia's record set in 1990. Witha large Union crowd on hand, Haver missed his first attempt as the ball bounced off of the front of the rim. Haver's sec- ond attempt would be the the· right baseline. The ball hit nothing but net as Haver had himself a record. Union went on to lose the game 79-48 and lost to RPI on Saturday night 70-61 With two games left in the season. Haver is choosing not to dwell on his record. \I guess it really hasn't hit me yet. .. years from now I will be able to look back and say I did something, as of right now it would have been better if I could have broke it playing better. It is something I achieved early on in the year, not for what I am doing now.\ Haver ami the team hope to finish off the sea- son strong as they compete at Middlebury on Tuesday, February 20th and host Nazareth on February 24th. Game Notes: Freshman Brian Hava got his first col- legiate start Friday night at Skidmore ... Sophomore Len Mortimore scored 14 points Saturday night against RPI... The 199 5-96 season marks the first in Coach Bill Scanlon•s 26 year career at Union that the team has not record-breaker as he took a pass from won ten games. Matt Sugarman and let the ball fly from korner clutch situation. He responded with a home run that ended the game. Elsewhere. the Union College Skating Dutchmen met up with the New York Rangers in a much anticipated clash of powers. The game was played in front of 1,200 hundred people at the Roxy of 57th Street, a change from the normal locale due to the rioting that occurred the last time these two teams met. Mid- way through the second period of a scoreless game, Union goaltender Trevor Koenig was paged to a courtesy phone for an urgent call leaving a vacancy in the Union crease. Not to fear, public address announcer Dagan LaCorte climbed down from his perch and, with only a Breath.:Easy to keep his nasal pas- sages clear, made 26 miraculous saves, including one on a penalty shot awarded when Vince Faucher (pronounced Fo- shay), whose rights had just been traded to the Rangers from Ottawa for two blank double-track cassette tapes and a box of Good'n'Plentys was wrestled to the ice by Chris Sears after the two had a verbal disagreement as to who was going to wear the black cardigan on the next road trip. The Dutchmen finally tal- lied in the third when Chad Thompson's rocket from just inside his own blue-line deflected off three sticks, a referee, and Gordie James to beat Ranger goalie Mike Richter for the only tally of the game for either squadron. As is tradition, the Union fans who made the trip tossed sheep onto the ice in celebration so that the players may shave them and use the wool to make blankets and hats for all to share. Union head coach Bruce Delventhal was extremely pleased with his teams performance but continues to remain bothered by the diminishing ex- change rate between the dollar and Is- raeli shekel. On the subject of the pen- alty shot, Coach Delventhal has this to say, \I think that perhaps Chris might want to consider going with a V -neck sweater, maybe something in a forest green.\ Nevertheless, it was an in- spiring victory for a team consider- ing a franchise move to the beauti- ful and tranquil Costa Rican Islands. Some sidenotes: The NFL this past week announced that the Burnbita tribe ofPapau New Guinea has sub- mitted a formal proposal to bring an NFL franchise to the area. Since money is a non-entity with the Bumbitas, a lifetime supply of yams have been offered to cover the cost of relocation and the construction of a new multi-faceted domed sta- dium. The NFL is said to be review- ing the proposal. In major league baseball, superstar outfielder Ken Griffey Jr. has officially turned down the Seattle Mariners• $34 mil- lion dollar offer, but at the same time announced his intentions to remain with the Mariners for no money. He cites his altruistic and unfettered love for the game ofbaseball as the prime reason for his decision. The Mari- ner organization~ meanwhile, has not given up hope of getting Griffey Jr. to play for money. Says one uniden- tified source in the Mariner front office, \if Mr. Griffey does not ac- cept money. we will have no choice but to lower ticket prices, and we cannot lower ticket prices . ., Stayed tuned for more details. Finally. in a disturbing story, Union College Sports lnfonnation Director George Cuttita formally announced this past week his intention to curtail all rela- tions with and rescind all privileges for the sports department at WRUC. Mr. Cuttita cites a case of\hurt feel- ings\ as the reason for this move. It is unclear whether or not a formal apology will be extended to Cuttita to repair broken ties. Hey, by the way; want some of what I got? - -

Feb'ruary 22, 1996 PAGE24 Union Heats Up Erg Sprints by Jeffery Druzba Staff Writer Last weekend's Adirondack Indoor Sprints, held annually at nearby Skidmore College, drew competition from all over New ings can he adjusted to affect the load and the heaviness which is pulled by the rower. As benchmarks toward the effec- tiveness ofthe training program, erg tests are performed at sev- eral occasions during the win- ter training season. These tests Varsity, Novice, Lightweight, and Heavy. Union's results were impressive as two row- ers led the rest of the team by medalirtg in their divisions. In the Novice Light category, Ri- chard \Te:x\ Simmons flew to a silver medal pl'acing with a rower with only three weeks experience. Jim's humility was ever present after his piece with shouts of\I am the greatest\ and ''I'm really a lightweight\. Other Novices rounded out the middle of the competition with respect• able finishes by Aaron \Loud- mouth\ Reidy, J o .h n \Flash\ Carbone, Rob \The Stud\ Davis, and \ M ad Mike 11 Sherwood. with a fifth place finish in an ex• treme.ly competitive Open Heavyweight division. Caroline's grueling 7:28.1 finish was only eigllt seconds behind the number one ranked woman in the Ca,pital District. Ajl'een \Quiet\ QUigley fmished sixth in her race against other open light- weights with a 8:26.1. In trUe Novic~ Lightweight Women tra,.. dition, Beth \Fighting Fancher'' and \Hard Core Heather\ Joines posted scores worthy of tiny fighting machines. In the Nov .. ice Heavy division, Susanna \Raging Ryan\ finished only three seconds behind the bronze medal with a 8:01.4. Susanna encourages the two women from Skidmore who finished ahead of her to come up to Union and \have a little erg race of our ·own - on my terms:\ Supporting Susanna's challenge are Novice rowers Helen \Hel- lion\ Woznack, Jamie \Every Body say Hob\ Bunchuck, and Sarah \Chubhie Checker\ Ahart. Most Union Women attribute their astounding finishes at Skidmore to their indoor circu- York State, including sev- eral teams that Union Crew races against in the spring. In an attempt to ri- val Union's record par· ticipation from all four squads, com- petitors trav- eled from Colgate, Ithaca, RPI, Albany, and Skidmore Colleges. For- tunately, these schools were unable to disguise their nervous stomachs as The crew team rows at Skidmore. Photo by Jared Ricbman/The Concordiensis Union's lone single sculler, Eric Catalano, pulled his way to a 7:10.0 fin~ ish in the Men's Open Light field. Eric later com- mented that the . lar tank training pursued on Sat- urdays. The Women's Novice co-captain, Dana \Cheer 'Em On\ Weinkranz, further com- mented that if it wasn't for their spiritual mentor, Petey, she could have never been such a inspirational cheerleader. Union Crew is moving into the second half of a strenuous winter train- ing with double practices, plan- ning on a late-spring boathouse building, looking forward. to spring training in Maryland, and gearing up for our toughest regular season against twelve of the best New England rowing programs in our division . Union's con- tingent descended upon, and took ownership of, Skidmore's Athletic Complex. The erg is the most critical piece of winter training equip- ment for any rower. The row- ing motion is simulated with the spin of a flywheel by pulling on a handle connected to a chain which is in turn connected to the resistance wheel. Confus- ing? There's more: vent open- Men's Hoops 2/24- NAZARETH 3:00 Men's Swimming 2/22- 2/24- UNYSCAA Championship@ RPI are timed pieces of2000 meters in which the rower must decide how fast and how hard he can pull during the erg race. If the rower goes out too fast or even too slow, his performance will certaiuly be disappointing. The Adirondack Indoor Sprints involve the same format as Spring races. Athletes com- pete in heats arranged by vari- ous divisions of rowers: gender, Hockey 2/23 -@Cornell 7:30 2/24-@ Colgate 3:00 Track 2/23-2/24- State Meet @Hamilton 7: 10.1. Rich was so ecstatic he unknowingly coined a new victory exit from the erg: what is now known as the \Tex Bow- Leg Strut\. Ted Wallace posted an impressive bronze medal fin~ ish in the Men's Coxswain event with a hard earned 7:57.4. On- lookers were so taken by Ted's heroic performance that he is now enjoying fame as the \Wallacco Inc.\ spokesperson. Further success came to Union Crew through the rower known only as \New Jim\. New Jim . finished sixth in a field of 25 Novice Heavyweight rowers with a 6:56.7 -incredible for a \Model C purred like a kitten and neatly put him to sleep., . .I'll remem- ber not to go out at a 1:15 next time! 11 Heeding the advice of his .mentor, Bryan \Sassy\ Serrell got on the C and pu11ed a per- sonal best of 6:57.1. Finishing a second earlier was Nick \Papa\ Papanickolas, who, like Mike Ferguson with a 6:53.6, finished third in his heat. Union's smaller Varsity Men's squad all posted personal bests at last weekend's race and ex- pect to continue their unfettered improvement. Leading the Union Women was \Crazy Caroline\ Nemet Rowers during training session in Albany. Photo by Jared Riehm an/Tile Concordiensis

• • nnror· tensts The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXV, Number XV Schenectady, New York February 29, 1996 - -' Union Hosts Prominent Russian Author by Stephanie Slobotkin Assistant News Editor Poignant, awe-inspiring, witty, honest, and real. These adjectives are not merely opin- ionated labels, but truthful allot- ments that accurately describe a well known essayist and nov- elist, Phillip Lopate. Although Phillip Lopate .is ofRussian descent, the genre of essays in Russia does not exist. Thus,the American literature he presents is not regularly identi- fiable with people in different parts of the world. However, in connection with American thought, Lopate explores the sameness of the human experi- ence. He is insightful in Amerl- can contemporary thought and revels in the many aspects of life .. Also, in his essays one can find his sincere love of books and introspection of public in- timacy. During the hour and a half in which he spoke, Phillip Lopate read excerpts from two of his essays. The first essay very J'ixll,,,. ~!t.tni<.i#<.< was entitled \Terror of Men- tors.\ 'He explained that this essay came about because he was asked to write about rnentori:rig relationships for a magazine which was dedicated to mentors. At first, Lopate Was hesitant to ,attempt such a seem- ingly arduous task in terms of its subject. However, the es- SI:\Y was written and attendees on Thursday night were both amused and intrigued by this essay about Lopate and his view on mentors. In the contents of the essay Lop ate discusses how he never liked the idea of a mentor be- cause he did not believe in brown-noses. Despite the fact t~at he was always number one (academically) in his class, he despised those who had rela- tionships with their teachers. He liked his professors wall- eyed and unapproachab.le. J'his led to his notion of h-aving writer's ego in which he thought of himself as a better writer than all of his professors and withdrew from each fhunboy- ers of Coyne I~aundcy ~lobated on. Eri¢:·8~e¢ilit'Sctl~O.~ct~dy~· are barely surV'i'vti1l~ dne to . this rab·:tr. : wage qr:op$. J;h~e.peo.}ille. ~re . fad;(}1tae · .is iti a ft:enzy: because: lhei liav~ ... · ~it\an~ly fatldll¢s. Thtiy h~ve>pe.pptet¢,. · {te:m¢.a\fi..; feed· and hom~s to· maintain; ing ·to· th¢· Support is necessary, des;pite · ·d·edicated ·. the. fact that Union is notdi.. workers of ant one, His remarks, though, were taken as humorous after Lopate announced to the audi- ence that he was a mentor. In this same essay he further de- · scribes his own relationship to his students. He does not look at his students as his peers but recognizes that this seems un- fair. Overall, Lopate's essay on mentorship was both informa- tive and superbly written. Another excellent essay Lopate read from was his essay entitled, \The Story of My Fa- ther.\ In the piece of work · Lopate mentions topics and situ- ations in which both he and his father were involved in. He re .. calls, in vivid det~il, the events that occur during the years that his father was in a nursing home. He emphasizes the reality of the relationship he shares with his father.Md·i1sha,rshdeliverances. 'f<l iutri!~~ eti1Phasize the life of . his fa1liei,. Lop ate writes this es- · say and most others ·in such a manner that they are straightfor- ward and understandable, yet completely sophisticated at the the present employmen~ condi- tions are not at par with either the cQmpany or tbe employees. same time. Phillip Lopate is.\ a writer who is observant and concerned with the way people interact. ' He displays the~e thoughts and ideas through his description of Continued on page 4 Russian essayist Pltillip Lopate {pltoto by Stepltanie Slobotkin/TC) . •:'. - . : - . ' . . ::<,,: ... J, .:.,--'> ·._ ,: .. '-:-: work there, at least r;ontinued on page 3 SJJOrts Jeaturing.M Indoor Track and Men's Basketball Wrap~up

Splendor in Stone 8:00a 8:3Qa NOTT MEMORIAL ARTS BUILDING ATRIUM Lohner E\hibition: Silent 9:00a 6:00p mes of the Heart TI1eater 1996 : Splendor in Stone Splendor in Stone Movies: Airplane and Airplane II Splendor in Stone· of the Heart Theater Splendor in Stone of the Heart Theater •' < Production sOpen . < • • l2:00p lO:OOp 8:00p lO:OOp NOTT MEMORIAL Y1JLMAN THEATER 8:00p 12:00a CC CHET'S 9:00a ~:OOp 6:00p ARTS BUilDING ATRIUM < < < lO:QOp . ¥ULMAN THEATER . ,. . '- . ' 8:00p lO:OOp YULMAN THEATER : 12:oop -lO:OOp NOTTMEMORIAL . 1996 12:00p IO:OOn NOTT MEMORIAL 12:00p IO:bOp NOTT MEMORIAL 7:00p II :OOp CCCHETS 12:00p 10:00p NOTT MEMORIAL 8:00p lO:OOp YULMAN THEATER . 8:00p 12:00a CCCHET'S 12:00p lO:OOp NOTT MEMORIAL 8:00p lO:OOp YULMANTHEATER 8:00p 12:00a CCCHET'S o publicize an event, e-mail the concordy at Concordy@gar.union .edu, or call the Concordy office at extension 6155. w~ would be happy to include any and all campus events in this· calendar. LOCATION ·INCIDENt MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1996: NO SERIOUS INCIDENTS REPORTED. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1996: 1:30AM S&E . 5:38PM Schaffer. Library VANDALISM:. Courtesy telephone destroyed~ 1st floor South. THEFT: Student's wallet stolen. Wallet was left unattended on study desk. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2l, 199.6.: 8:15 AM RaymondSouth 1:45PM College CenterCircle THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1996: 1: 17 AM Fraternity 5:15AM Schaffer Lib. area · FRIDAY; FEBRUAR\'\ ·i3 1 1~9~: 3:22 AM · ' \ Alplui Delhi Phi' · 3:12PM Machine Lab Lot 10:15 PM College Center SATURDAY 1 FEBRUARY 24,1996: 1 : 14 AM Potter House 2:27AM Fraternity 2:28AM Fox/Davidson Lot 7:15AM Potter South 12:30 PM Achilles Rink 2:30PM Fox/Davidson Lot 4:20PM North Terrace Lane ·' ~' : 11:00 PM .. . West College : .. ·-~J . ,.. \ ... ~·,( SUNDA\' 2 FEBRUARY 2'5 2 1996: ·-. 12:52 AM 2:40PM 7·:45·PM 7:58PM Davids-on· \South ., Fox/Davidson Lot Memorial Chapel . North n:rrace Lane MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996: .S: 10 AM West Diniug VANDALISM: Broken. window. Seer cups atld cans. strewn throughaut the building. VANDALISM: Vendor's ve~icle damaged while parked. Paint scratched. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: M~uijuana in use. Suspects fled. Unauthorized social event in progress. THEFT: U.S. Mail recovered in catnptts sewer. Follow-up investigation detennined that the mail was sWlen 2/20196 from the S&E Building. • I ' i · . '. l \ BUR'GLARY~ Unauthorized entry into building, attempted theft of property. Suspects identified, property. recovered: Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM: Faculty member's car damaged. Suspect identified. Conduct Charges filed ... VANDALISM: Wall in 1st floor rest room damaged. LIFESAFETYVIOLATION: False fire almm caused by intentional a~tivation of pull box. Suspect identified. Conduct Charges filed. HARASSMENT: Student alleges continued verbal harassment by other students. THEFT: Food items stolen by several thieves from vendor's delivery truck. THEFT: Traffic control signs stolen from campus and the city were recovered. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM/UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Three juveniles were in the ritik and damaged a ceiling light· fixture. Suspects were identified and parent contacted. VANDALISM: Student's vehicle \keyed\ while parked. SAFETY IIAZARD!fHEFT: Tr?~tic contrOl sign removed from barrier gates . This is a serious recurrent problem. A , dangerous situation i~ ~re?ted when t , these. signs are. rem.oved. : .. VANDALISM! A 'fTEMPTED '- ' . - - ' ~ ' - . UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: . . . . .. Ist floqr window damaged during af!empt~tp unlawfully ent¢r the building. '>··Suspects fled. : · · : ·· \· _... .. . . . ....; .· DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Altercation reported. Group dispersed upon arrival of campus safety. Witn.esses to incident declined comment. VANDALISM: Student's vehicle damaged while parked. Paint was \keyed\. VANDALISM: Window broken. MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT: A vehicle being operated by a catnpus visitor ran into the barrier gate. The visitor was not injured but his vehicle sustained serious damage. THEFf: Flatware stolen from serving line. Suspect fled when approached by staff member. Incident occurred 2/20/96.

Wqe QJ:.onc.orbiensis • February 29, 1996 • Page 3 Two New Housing Opportunities· by Michelle R. Ellis News Editor This fall two new housing opportuni- ties win be available. Residence Life and .the Student Affairs Committee (SAC) are currently exploring options that will allow Union to utilize both Raymond North and Davidson North. The SAC is conducting an open ap- plication,process for the two .spaces, by which both civic and Greek organiza- tions can apply. The SAC, which is run by both students and faculty members, is open to any sugge·stions from anyone in the community as to how Union can make the best use of these facilities. In commenting on the possible uses for the open spaces, Dean of Students Frederick Alford stated, \There is clearly a demand on campus for al:termttive types of housing. The best evidence of this is last year's application process for Wells House. There were ten applicants for every open space at Wells House.\ - ' The SAC is looking for proposals from groups that will demonstrate how they can offer a new; positive, and different contribution to the Union campus. Pref- erence will go to ideas that have strong student support. Most importantly, the SAC wants to ensure that the groups that take over the facilities will be able to fill the buildings. One facility accommo- dates 35 students and the other accom- modates 22 students. Each proposal must include a list of people who are committed to living as a m(lmber of the\group .. Dean Alford stated, -\The SAC wants to conduct a fair process and everyone is encouraged .to apply for housing.\ Applications and/or suggestions for the possible uses of the spaces must be submitted by March 20th to either Resi- dence Life, the Dean of Student's Ofa fice, or to ProfessorBarbanel at the SAC. The SAC will determine who will ac~ quire the use of these buildings during the first week of spring term. Cuyne Lau.ndry Controversy continued from page I . one-third have been there for a consid- erable amount of years. It is these people who were planning to retire in the near future and cannot afford to have their wages cut 1.6 percent. Laundry recently held a rally. The rally was intended to inform the Company that other unions are aware of Coyne's actions and the demeaning ways in which they have treated their workers. They hope other organizations were made aware and the word will have spread to let workplaces know about the Most ofthe women at Coyne are s~iJ:I _ working. However, their morale is very iow and they have little reasoil to feel that working each hour, {fay in and out is worth the it while. Two women, who have worked together for almost fifty years for Coyne Textile Laundry have been asked to accept pay cuts of nearly 16 percent, from $7.1 0 an hour to $6 an hour. Other veterJ!n wo~kers too, hav~ been requireq to take a lqwer pay. The_ worker~ who_hav~.been \therefor aimos( ~ half-<:entury._itr~. suffer~~g: fr6~. ~~e. wage drop. Tbey are_l.ivid ab,out dl~ idea .. that th_e company js paying_n~w~r w.ork- ers, some hired within the past year, $5.95 an hour. John Funiciello, pub- lisher of the pamphlet, \Solidarity Notes,\ comments: !'Apparently, the company is trying to separate the younger workers from the older work- ers, as a way of breaking the union.'' upheavaL- . - . . . . . - ·- -. The Coyne Laundry workers are · 1 ' f In an effort to protest maltreatment and gain support, 'the worker~ of ~oyne · among the hundreds of thousands in New York .State alone who are ~trug­ gling to keep their rent paid and a meal on the table all at or near the minimum wage. Besides raising the minimum to $6 an hour, workers feel that cutbacks should be limited as well. Public sup- port and affirmative action are necessary to alleviate any wage drop. Furthermore, community awareness could possibly change the ~fnds of the employers of Coyne Laundry. Erie Street is right around the corner from Union's campus. lfthe campus dis- plays discontent with the demands ad- vocated by the company, our commu- nity is more likely to prosper. Union's involvement in Schenectady is important and even crucial. The voices of over 2000 students plus faculty and ~tafT can make a difference in the community, and to the workers of Coyrie Laundry. An Apology Concordiensis greatly regrets printing the statement about Victor Owusu and Frank Kojo Attah and that attributed to Lesley Douglas in the article on page 5 of last week's issue. We fully concur with the sentiments expressed by Victor Owusu in hjs wise and eloquent letter to the editor in this issue, and we salute him for the dignified restraint with which he wrote. We deserved harsher words: what appeared was the result of a shameful combination of bad judgement and negligent editing. We sincerely apologize to all those who suffered from our mistake. We would also like to apologize to Garret Igor Sugarman for not publishing a by-line on his article entitled \From Russia With Love\ and to Aaron Greenberg for not attaching his name to his letter entitled \Campus Buzz\. Campus News Honors Housing by Jobn R. Vero Staff Writer What ~ould you do if you had an unlimited budget, an old building, anda need for more student housing? What ifthe college was to allow the transformation of an old academic building into a residence. hall? This sounds Hke a pretty good position to be in, doesn't it? This is exactly where Dean Trish Williams, Director of Residence Life, is right now. As reported in the January 25th Concordiensis; the college is planning a number of projects around campus. Some of these projects and im- provements will take several years to implement; others will begin in the very near future. One of the first projects that students will see is the transformation of the old psychology building (North Colonnade) into student housing. The theme for the new structure will be academically based: students who excel will have the privilege of living in this new structure. Hence, the administration has arrived at the name Honors Housing. Even though the theme for the development has been adopted, the breadth of the meaning of such Honors Housing still must be determined. Many questions still remain unanswered, such as: \Which students will be able to live there?\ \Will students that excel mean only students that excel in grades?\ \Will the new building be like a 24 hour quiet dorm?\ At this time, the definition of honors housing is still widely open. It is important that students recognize what other students do well. Some students have a talent tbr activities or sports whereas another student may have a talent for academics. How should excellence be determined, and ~specially in the case of rewarding these people with special housing? The architects are asking college officials exactly what the building should physically look like. The only restriction placed on the architects thus far has been to preserve the facade of the building. All other options are open including expanding the building in the rear, and even possibly creating a courtyard that overlooks Jackson's Gardens and the Yulman Theater. There has been talk of including porches and balconies over- looking such a courtyard. College officials arc unsure about how to make the building functional. An excellent opportunity exists to experiment with room types, bathroom and kitchenette facilities, and study areas included in residence halls. Dean Williams has repeatedly asked for student input into this matter, and wishes to receive mo.~e ~~qdent ,input betbre the. ~rchitectural pl,ans. are drawn~ .Jf the style and function of the new honors housing works well, there is a possibility that these styles could be adopted to other buildings that cur- rently serve as student housing. Dean Witriams, Dean Alford, Vice President Mamrnola and others are actively accepting suggestions and comments regarding students thoughts on who should live in the building, what it should look like, and what type of rooms and facilities it should have. Students who have any ideas or suggestions should contact Dean Williams at the Office ofResidence Life or by e-mail ( williamt@ alice.union.edu }, or Dean Alford's office. The Office of Residence Life is planning an infonnational meeting regarding the Honors Housing. Please plan to attend with any questions, comments, or concerns. MOTOPHOTO Create Your Own Portraits With ~ •H02'0VISION ··················-····-··············~·······- . . $2 OFF PHOTOVISION I :-·-··-···--············-·················-··-·1 • • $4,99 a X 10 ENLARGEMENTS~ • • ........... ~--· .. ······························\···· • • 50% OFF FILM PROCESSING . Clb~s-an&u• C.: oil I Nat v.w w.,.,., Olhet Ohf, ~--·············-········0····4••••&••······-·· 1041 State St. Schenectady NY 12301 (518)-382-5776

Campus News Money, Politics and Campaign '96 An Interview With Professor Cliff Brown by Brandon D. Declet Staff Writter This year the nation has been spell- bound by the Republican presidential nomination process. The country has seen the surprising rise of Patrick Buchanan, Steve Forbes and even an \establishment politician,\ Bob Dole. In many respects, it has become a media circus of sorts in which all the can- didates have participated in one way or another to the atmosphere through mud- slinging and negative advertising. Ac- cording to Clifford Brown, the remedy is campaign finance reform. Clifford Brown, a professor and scholar of political sci.cnce has written a new book entitled \Serious Money: Fundraising and Contributing in Presi- dential Nomination Campaigns.\ This book has come from years of personal research as well as his valuable experi- ence in the political arena. Professor Brown was the issues director for John Anderson's presidential campaign in 1 980 as well as for Michael Dukakis' failed campaign in 1988. Brown states that he is flattered by the publicity he has been receiving because of the book. Just recently, The Boston Glohe interviewed him for a story about money in politics and, in particular, presi- dential campaign fundraising. In an interview with the Concordiensis, Brown emphasized that the current sys- tem of presid.ential nomina,tio11~ '.'needs some reform in order to give voters more options.\ This reform aecordirtg, to Brown should come in the fonn of chang:- ing how and where candidates can spend and raise the necessary funds to run a viable campaign. He suggests raising the maximum al- lowable sizeofcontributions to$ I 0,000 per individual and .$20,000 per family from the current limit of$1,000. These limits were established following the Watergate scandal and the election of a reform-minded Congress. When asked about voter's concerns about money in poHtics he responded by saying that \even by raising the limits (a candidate) would still need 3,000 donors.\ He also proposes changing the primary calen- dar to space out the dates in order to give the candidates an ability to better use their resources. When asked for predictions about this year's campaigns, Brown made it clear that Bob Dole needs a clear win in Ari- zona and the Dakotas. He thinks Buchanan could go all the way because he has the momentum and he has been spending Jess money than the other can- didates. The other serious candidate, Lamar Alexander, has only one m~or message, no money and no constitu- ency. He predicted that if Alexander did not win in South Carolina he would have to drop out of the race. According to Professor Brown, \money does not win it for you.\ But, the fact that such a large amount of money has to be raised to run a presi- dential campaign has kept good and vi- able candidates out of the race. This is a problem according to Brown because almost half of all Republican voters would like to vote for other candidates. · lo the end, Srqwn's predictions. will be tested againstthe results .of Tuesday's primaries in AHzona and·the Dakotas.· · ·. · However, if Buchanan can pull off a good showing he has the momentum to win the Republican nomination. Russian Essayist Lopate continued from page I his father and his portrayal of a mentor. By writing about real incidents and recounting them, at times word for word, Lopate's audience delves into his life and the moment he is describing. Overall, Lopate's writing should not go unno- ticed. His dignified and original writing capabilities are reflected in all of his works, as he is an accomplished artist in his field. Lopate's performance was well received and hopefully inspired student's and other attendees to further indulge in some of his other fine works. Lopate is presently an English professor at Hofstra University in Long Is- land, New York. He has been writing poetry ever since he was six years old and has developed his writing skills over many years. His works range from poetry to novels and contemporary essays. He has written two coJiections of poetry, is a film critic, and generally has an aggressive curiosity of the world at large. On Thursday, February 22, Union students and faculty were privileged enough to be able to listen to some of Lopate's work. .llomance and Passion Are you a single person in search of romance and passion? Are you tired of sitting by your phone waiting for that special some one to calJ? Search no further. Stop waiting. Send a pho- tograph and a list of your interests to LoNELY HEARTS MATCH- MAKERS. That's right! True love can be as easy as the click of a camera and cost as little as the price of a postage stamp! When you meet the mate of your dreams you'll see why we say, \It's no crime when someone finds your heart in the nick of time!\ SPECIAL ADVERTISEMENT!! 'Qilte Clinm.:nr!tiell!Sis • February 29, 1996• Page 4 ------·-·-··- ---· Wanted!! I Individuals, Student Organi~ations to Promote SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS CALL INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS http:/lwww. icpt.corn 1-800-327-6013 Outdoor Gear 8 Clothing Fleece Clothing Backpacks Hiking Boots Tents Rainw-ear . . Outerw-ear Sleeping Bags Camping Supplies Cl-·~~lting_ .Equipa~eat • Open DaUy $1 A WASH, 5TH WASH FREE ~ ~ FREE DRYING +.'f\' ~ TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS . .,. 8AMT03PM '\ SEE STORE FOR DEi' AILS & ADDITIONAL SAVING$ , College Rings Newest Styles! Any College A.ny Year! 3 Week Delivery. Now Available Direct by Accessing our Web site on the internet. Fully Guarenteed, Great Prices. Come Visit our site and order your College Class Ring. http://www.coUegerings.net Or phone us at (718) 443-4260

4 Louis Farakhan, Danger Breaks by Matt Sandler Wotld News Editor \God will destroy America by ~he hands of Muslims,\ the Iranian press quoted Louis Farrakhan as saying, \God will not give Japan or Europe the honor of bringing down the United States: this is an honor God will bestow upon Mus- lims.\ TI1is statement, like the ones below, was recorded in the New York Times, based on of- ficial press agencies of the countries Mr. Farrakha11 vis- ited, yet their accuracy could not be confirmed. However, even if his speech was not word for word in what he said~ there is the notion of intent on the words said that must be consid- ered. h1 Iraq, .Mr. Farrakhan com- pared the deprivations of Ira- qis living under the United Nations economic sanctions with the fate of Jews in Nazi death camps. And in Iran, he denounced the United States as tl1e \Great Satan.\ Mr. Farrakhan, the leader of the Nation of Islam whose racist ideology has :been the cause of wide protest, is coming under the scrutiny of the State Depart- ment and Congress for his travel to nations that support States. \Maybe there's a cell next to Abdei-Rahman for me, and maybe he and I will be to- gether reading the Koran and encouraging each other.\ Mr. Rahman was convicted of con- GUARAtfltED TO MAKE YOU FEEl UKE A NEW MAN! spiracy to overthrow the United States Government through ter- ror bombings and assassina- tions in New York. City. Supporters said that this was a good will tour, designed to press the message of the Mil- lion Man March, which they Dangerous ideas can lead to dangerous acts. Words are spoken expressions of thoughts, act~ are acting on those words and though~. international terrorism and are ruled by dictators. Mr. Farrakhan predicted that he would probably be arrested when he returns to the United designed for atonement and rec- onciliation, with nations like Iran, the Sudan, Libya, Iraq, Nigeria, and other nations. Op- ponents say that by going to nations that flout international law, it does not press these na- tions to act responsibly in the international community. Among the reasons for the trip, some have said that the Nation of Islam is hitting budget crunches and that this was· a way of raising money. A report by JANA, the Libyan ·press agency, said that Col. Muammar ei-Qaddafi, had promised $1 billion to Mr. Farrakhan to finance politicaJ activities in the United States. Critical Congressional mem- bers and the Justice Department are looking into the whether Farrakhan should register as a foreign agent. Libya denied it promised him money. Repre- sentative Peter T. King, Repub- lican of New York and long time critic of the Minister, called for an investigation by Congress to see if Mr. Farrakhan violated passport restrictions, in regard to travel to Libya, which the U.S. gov- ernment bans American citi- zens from doing. Mr. Farrakhan is a minister who uses his position to cause divisions. His statements inside the United States are enough to show him as racist and anti- Semitic. If Mr. Farrakhan be- licwes that the way for African- Americans to rise is to bring everybody else down, then, what does that say about the state of affairs he believes America is in? The lowest com- mon denominator in this case is the lowest, poorest, most mis- erable point, and Mr. Farrakhan uses his position to reach it. Instead, he should use his posi- tion to )ift others to the highest common denominator. It is easy to find divisions among people, but it takes work to see the similarities tbat everyone possesses. Words have power, meaning, and cause action. Advocating the destruction of the United States government is a clear and present danger to everything the United States stands for. Mr. Farrakhan should be warned that as a leader, he should un- derstand that if members ofhis group act on what he says, he is just as responsible. Also, talk- ing happily about being next to Sheik Abdel Rahman makes one wonder whether he has re- gard for life other than Muslim and black life at all. Mr. Rahman is a terrorist, l1is fol- lowers committed and planned terrorist acts against innocent civilians for a leader to openly proclaim that he will stand by Sheik Ralunan shows that he stands up with terrorists. Rac- ism is intolera~le! Terrorism is The collective anxiety over the economy is that a product· of the political environment? As politicians use trade and economic security to get elected, do Americans feel worse off! disastrous! Mr. Rahman's poli- cies would attack children, par- ents, and grandparents, Mr. Farrakhan' s support attacks them as well. Terrorism is color blind, meaning it will kill a black person just as it will kill a white person. Mr. Farrakhan's visit to Iran is another painful reminder of how he is sanctioning terror- ism. Iran has attacked the sov- ereign power of the United States, allowing students to seize our embassy and hold hos- tages without stopping it. All the same, they have attacked our embassy. An embassy is considered to be the sovereign territory of nation that occupies those grounds. Mr. Farrakhan has gone to the enemy's land and advocated the destruction of America. For him to go to Iran and do what he has done, shows that he is sympathetic to what has happened. This is not the message America should stand for, or wants to stand for. For all that Mr. Farrakhan rep- resents, at least he is out in the open, what is the most danger- ous aspect is knowing that there are \Farrakhan 's\ lurking in the shadows. Writers Wanted, Writers needed for World News for n e x t term. C a I I X6155 and Get involved. Make that call today!

Page 6 February 29, 19?() 'atlr~ C!tntttnrhinn;i-s International: * Copyright pirates :prosper in China despite the prom- ises made by the Chinese government to combat intel- lectual property theft. * The l)nited States is set to impose limited trade sanc- ·tions on China for supplying nuclear materials to Pakistan designed to target China without collateral effect on U.S. exports. * A double-decker bus ex- ploded in the center of London's theater district, in- juring least eight people and killing one. The Irish Repub- lican Atmy claimed respon- sibility. * France intends to make a major cut in its military and to design an all volunteer force, similar to England and the United States. * Sarajevo is blooming back to life in a remarkable trans- fOJmation from the war be- sieged city before the Day- ton accords. * After an American com- mander threatened Bosnian Serb t.-oops with warplanes and attack helicopters, NATO forces gained entry to two Bosnian Serb arms de- pots in eastern Bosnia. * The American Embassy in Bahrain issued a stronger se- curity alert to Americans to exercise caution, after a bomb exploded in a car parked in a commercial mar- ket. * Russia and the Interna- tional Monetary Fund agreed on a $10.2 billion loan, hut the I.M.F. warns if Russia moves away from economic change, it will cut off the funds. * With world sanctions lifted, South Africa is being targeted by drug dealers to expand their markets. * Tsrael said that it approved the return of 154 members of the Palestine National Coun- cil, including a hijac\ker to areas controlled by the Pal- estinians. The council is the P.L.O. 's parliament in exile. * The United Nations and Iraq are still negotiating a way for Iraq to sell $2 bil- lion in limited oil sales to pay for civilian needs, ,who have bore the brunt of the sanc- tions while Saddam Hussein lives in luxuty. This is based on the Aprill995 plan that the Security Cowi.cilagreed upon, but Iraq initially re- jected. * Liet. Gen. Hussein Kamel, who defected to Jordan six months ago, re- turned home to Iraq with the full support of Saddam Hussein. However, his relatives killed him despite Saddam Hussein's prom- ise of a pardon. '* A United Nations tribu- nal charged with investi- gating war crimes in Rwanda indicted two Rwandan in jail in Zam- bia on charges of genocide. These trials will be the first steps toward responsibility for the estimated half mil- lion people that were killed in massacres. * The World Health Orga- nization confirmed that 13 people died in Gabon, in West Africaftom the Ebola vims, after a dead chim- panzee was eaten at a feast in a remote village. Nation: * Federally bac:k loan guarantees for mortgages, student loans, artd fatmer's I oans are increasing the li- abilities for the United States Treaswy. By l998, the liabilities in this area, will reach $1 trillion, up from 1992 at $600 billion. This is another example of Washington keeping its fis- cal house in disorder. * Pat Buchanan won the New Hampshire Primary. Bob Dole, who came in second, promised to fight for the heart and soul of the Republican ·party, and Lamar Alexander, who came in third, suggested that Bob Dole step aside, and let Lamar Alexander battle Buchanan. * Federal judge Richard P. Match, in the Oklahoma City bomb case, ordered that the trial get moved to Denver, ruling that in Okll!• homa City, the defendants Timothy J. McVeigh and Teny L. Nichols could not get a fair trial. * Assistant Secretary of State Richard C. Holbrooke for European and Canadian affairs, stepped down from his po· sition, receiving the,State Department's second.:high· est honor. Mr. Holbrooke was responsible for bring- ing the Balkan leaders to Dayton and hammering World News Washington Pennies by Matt Sandler World News Editor Hillary Rodham Clinton's book tour in the past couple ·of weeks will cost the U.S. taxpayermoney. Mrs. Clinton used a 12 seat Air Force jet for promoting her best- selling book. The plane cost 2,890 dollars per hour of flying time, and is being used because tbe Secret Service wanted her to use it for security reasons. Her aides say that the taxpayer ex- pense was an \unfortunate but necessary cost.\ It is true that most of the proceeds will go to charities for the sales .of \It Takes a Village and Other Lessons Chil- dren Teach Us,'' but there is the problem of why taxpayers must pay for her trips? The total bill f()r the plane will come to about 69,360 dollars forthe.entire tour. Mrs. Clinton's publisher, Simon & Schuster, a subsidiary ofNational Amusement fuc., will reimburse the government for the cost of a first class air fare for each leg .of the trip for Mrs. Clinton and aides travelling with her. That total wouldrangefrom ll,OOOdollars to around 16,000 dollars. No one is saying that Mrs. Clinton should not be afforded her Secret Service protection, but it is very hard to swallow the fact that the taxpayers will pay for this trip. In the midst of a budget stalemate, it is uncon. scionable for this to occur. Some would argue that 69 thou- sand dollars is nothing given what Washington spends. I would say that it is everything. Washington might throw thou- sands. and millions around like they are pennies, but American's understand the value of money. Why else the wide spread pub- lic support for a balanced bud- get? They understand that these Washington pennies add up to Washington dollars which are in the millions and later billions. The money is political now. Fallout has.not occurred yet, but political rumblings could happen at any time. The money repre- sents ·something more than what is. What we have here is a case ofWashingtonmentality with ar- rogance that turns people off to politics. It is quite likely the press and then the public could seize on this, emphasizing it into a scan- dal. I could see ·the public sink- ing its teeth ii1to something like this while ignoring a more press- ing problem or error of greater magnitude. It comes down to the question ofpeople who work hard seeing their money usurped through taxes to pay for a thing like this; The publisher should pick up the entire tab, understand the security concerns and that for the book promotion, which they want ~d are ready to pay for with first class air fare, they have to work around this public person. They know of the problems and should take more responsibility. Taxpayers should not pay for book tours. Chances are that this will not put a dent or.scratch into Mr. Clinton's campaign, but for the people who know about this case, it should place questions in their\ minds. I know I have mine.

to like ped e to and lity. for this into for this e. Class Action Law Suits Take a New Face by Akin Sawyerr Staff Writer The Upited States Congress passed a bill last year which changed the rules governing the securities market. This little known law introduces stricter rules to the game. of class- ac- tion law suits. The new law is presently be- ing implemented in a law suit confronting California Micro Devices, a maker of electronic components in Milpitas, Cali- fornia. One of the goals of the new law is to encourage inves- tors to play a bigger role in class-action suits. This was in- tended to help discourage class- action lawyers from filing suits in behalf of 'pet plaintiffs'- in- dividuals recruited to lend their names to a quick law suit. Most of these illegal law suits even- tually settle their cases out of court, for substantial amounts of money. Congress believes investors would be wiser about when to sue and when to fold. Congress also believes that investors will be forced to think twice about how much they will have to pay in legal fees. This assertion is going to be tested publicly in the California Micro Devices case. Judge Vaugn R. Walker is presiding over the case. He has already ousted the law firm han- dling the plaintiff's case and rejected a settlement that the law firm negotiated with the com- pany last year. The lead plain- tiff in the case is the Colorado Public Employees Retirement Association, known as Colpera. Joseph Hasset of Hogan and Hartson is the lawYer represent- ing Colpera. Colpera is suing California Micro Devices because in Au- gust of 1994, California Micro cut its quarterly sales forecasts. The cut in their forecasts caused California Micm' s stock to plunge. Several class action law suits were filed against Califor- nia Micro Devices. This par- ticular case is just another ex- ample of how high-technology companies are victimized by frivolous litigation. In October of 1994, the companies set up a committee to look into account- ing irregularities. The committee's results put the companies past sales at half of what they were said to be. These results prompted the res- ignation of California Micro's C.E.O. Federal prosecutors and the Securities Exchange com- mission are currently conduct- ing their own investigations. By January 1995, the new leaders of the company were determined to end the litigation against them so they could sal- vage what was left of their busi- ness. The company's new board of directors felt that the companies existente w.as at stake, so they reached a settle- ment with Lieff Cabraser Heimann & Bernstein, the lead- ing plaintiff's law firm. The settlement was for $1 million in cash and 1.5 million in shares in new common stock. California Micro went as far as giving plaintiffs its claims against its former executives and auditors. Lieff Cabraser was scheduled to Upper Flat For Rent 853 NOTT ST Across the street from the Colege Day Care Center Fully furnished 4 Bedrooms each w/ cable Kit, LR, DR, Bath and Pantry Laundry Facilities Dishwasher Front and Back Partch Plenty of Closet Space Very Secure Neighborhood 1800 sq. ft. living space 1 year lease, 7/1/96-6/30/97 $750.00 + utilities Biggest flat in Union area Pets Negotiable Tired of Dorm Life? If you would like to live in. your own apart- ment, but wonder if you can afford it, we should talk. Affordable 2- family, VG condition, live in one rent the other be paid $2.8 million. The part- ners Gf the firm thought is was a good settlement, but Judge Walker and one of the jurors in the case thought that Lieff Cabraser had been given too much leeway to work without much oversight. In order not to seem unfair, Judge Walker con- ducted a poll ofinvestigators to see if they agreed with him. The investigators supported the settlement, but Judge Walker did not buy it. Although the case is being conducted according to the old rules, the new rules lets the case run at Judge Walkers discretion. Several large institutional inves- tors wrote to Judge Walker through Joseph A. Grungfest- the former commissioner ofthe S.E.C. They commended him for his poll and called it a landmark in the history of securities fraud litigation. InNovemberof1995, Colpera challenged the settle- ment and asked to be allowed to pursue abetter settlement. Judge Walker heartily agreed and he removed Lieff Cabraser as the class 'representative' and named Colpera the new class rep. Calif<Jmia Micro Devices has .being playing the waiting game for a year as a result of the new developments which have sur- faced in the case. They have not been to pleased in the manner Judge Walker has handled the case, especially after they learned that he ignored the pro- tests of at least one individual investor, who had more shares than Colpera, and supported the old deal. California Mirco De- vices has watched its stock faJ:I to \$7.25 a share from a peak of $11 a share. The uncertainty of the out- come of the settlement is the rea .. son why the market is cautious of California Micro's stocks. Judge Walker has been com- mended by a number of people for his work, but he has also been blamed for dragging on a case that could have been settled long ago. The whole situation was eloquently put into perspec- tive by a man named Mr. Gooding. Mr. Gooding said,\ I thought it was a good settle- ment,\ he continued. \ All we can do now is take our guidance from Judge Walker about where we go from here \ u/ believe tlzat tile excellent reputatimz of Union's MBA coupled witll a very effective internship program, enabled me to secure a position wit/1 Coopers & Lybrand a full year before graduatio11. \ Starra Cahan Sherrin, BS Math, 1994, JvfBA 1995 World famous PSYCHIC to stars and celebrities--35 years experi- ence--can! he~p you to obtain love, health, wealth and luck. Tele- phone David Gaurdino ANY- TIME at 423-558-1197 or 214- 340-9844; Fax 214-341-0606 Wanted!!! Individual, Student Organization to Promote SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS CALL IN- TER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS http://www.icpt.com 1-800-327-6013 SPRING BREAK-Nassau/Paradise Island, Cancun and Jamaica from $299. Air Hotel, Transfers, Par- ties and more! Organize small groups-earn FREE trips plus commisions! call 1-800-822-0321 I ~ I· ~~ '•

OPlED 'Orhe ·C!rou~o:rnirusi,;; .. • February 29, 1996 · Page 8 . . . . . EDITORIAL · I . Edit.ors Respond to Responses to Responses • The letters section of this newspaper is meant to be an open brum for the debate of issues concerning this campus and the utside world. Recently, the Concordiensis and its editors have • orne under fire for engaging the writers ofletters in debate. We believe ,it is important for those people who take issu~· ith editorial responses to letters to remember a few things: . irst, a letter is usually contributed with the intention of raising ebate on an issue. When \the editors respond, even ifthisre-. ponse occurs within the same issue ofthe Concordiensis, they. re simply providing the author and thf; readership with feed\ . ack. We believe that it is in fact often best to respond to a lette .· · mmediately ~while the topic is fresh in the minds-of readers. I·. e waita week to respond, the response may become stale old. ews. Those who contribute letters to the Concordiensis should !so be aware that they are contributing to a public forum. Keep~ ·ng that in mind, they should be prepared to receive whatevei esponse( within the limits of good taste) the editorial board prints· · n the smne issue or other readers send in for a later edition. We would also r:emind those critical of our editorial responses hat the Op-Ed amd letters section of this paper has in recent onthsbecorne amuchlivelierand in fact larg~rsectionthan i . as been in the recent past. It seems to us a. pity that in many o hose l-etters the implicit view seems to be a) that participants in ubi ic de bate are entitled to expect no response~ and b) tha nion C()])egestudents are so supersensitive that, far from tak~ 'ng theirviewsseriously by responding to them, we should grate• ully treat with kid gloves anyone who writes at aU. The firs ssum)Jtion seems to us mistaken under any circumstances; the econd terribly sad on a college campus.If we're not here to ngage one another in vigorous debate of important issues, wllat re we here for? The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Scll(!nectady 's Oldest Newspaper An.thonyC. LaVecchia, Evan L. Morris EDITORS-IN-CHIEF · Michelle Ellis NEWS EDITOR Larry P:uka ARTS EDITOR Scott Steadman LAYOUT EDITOR Adam J. Richman ASSOCIATE EDITOR Rick .Lederer Laur~l R11ma PHOTO EDITORS Stephanie Kuehn COP'Y EDITOR Jen Felose Peter F~mmm ASSIST ANT COPY EDITORS Eric Svenson Jonathan Fader SPORTS EDITORS Matt Sandler WORLD NEWS EDITOR Peter Sorensen. FEATURES EDITOR David Pinkowitz, Lisa Lemoi EXECUTIVE EDITOR. DavidEder Chris Richards LIVING EDITORS Dennis Popeo SCIENCE EDITOR Tatiana Cogevilla COMPUTER MANAGER Bar1-y Eisenberg ON-LINE DIRECTOR Jared Richman CARTOONIST Scott Scunion . FACULTY ADVISOR . Raquel Millman · OPINIONS EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Scott Druckemiller, Laurie Kirschner, Shaun- Paul Ma11ore. STAFF: Dagan LaC~rte, Greg Kalish, Omar AI-Kbalidi, Emily Battis, Jeff Vnrzba, Jon Gasthalter, Mike Leding, Conor McKenzie, Martin Metz~ Bhavani Meduri, Aaron Sicotte, Aileen Quigly, Kathy Walters, Bran dolt D. Declet, Stephanie Slobotkin ICE: PLEAS~? . 'LEAV/i\ ALL WAUE13 ~IJP pvrese:s XN \ \ \ SU Rl:64STGt<. *;:2 ' L ~< f\ \ ~ .,,. ' ' \ . . : . OP-ED I . . A Difference of Opinion Raquel Millman Opinions Editor Union is not diverse. We all shop straight out of the J. Crew catalogue, We all watch Friends religiou~ly on Thursday nights. We all talk the same. We all ( ac- cording to freshman Betsy Pe- kin) played Dave Matthews all first term and wouldn't be caught dead listening to it now. We are each individuals, yet we are virtually in the scheme ofthe world, exactly the same. There is a student who thought differently than the masses at Union College. He held a position. He kept it de- spite the anger that it caused. He discussed it openly in classes and never put down oth- ers for thinking differently. I applaud this student. I applaud Tobias Len. In last week's Concordiensis, Toby wrote an article entitled \Buchanan for President\. He went again~t the liberal mob on this campus and wrote from his heart. This campus should ap- preciate his passion and his bravery, but that is not what has happened since the article was printed. Someone, or someones, pho- tocopied that article .and vtrote comments all around it. 'These comments were not only de- rogatory about what was writ- ten in the article, but rather about its author as well. They then proceeded to hang this graffiti infested version all around the campus in strategic places so that everyone could see. I am ashamed of whoever did this. It isn't easy to be the \odd man out\. It isn't easy to have a dif- ferent opinion than everyone else. This person should wake up and realize that if they don't like Buchanan, they don't have to vote for him; however~ writ- ing derogatory comments about those who do like Buchanan is just wrong. · It's not as if Toby's article was written in the News section of the paper; it was. in the Opin- ions section of the paper~ It is in this section and only in this section. that the students and faculty can express their true opinions without any fact at all, just opinions. Virtually anything can be printed. And what do we do when a student finally has a differing opinion on this campus, we put it down. The scariest part of the whole thing. is. that whoever hung up these posters or wrote these commentaries is so naive to what they are doing. In re- ality they are supporting the ideas of Pat Buchanan. Not only are more people reading the article in question, but they are taking on a view of shun- ning a difference of opinion. Whatever happened to Voltaire's, \I do not agree with what you are saying, but I will defend to the death your right to say it\? I will net stand for this bla- tant display of the masses tak- ing over. I support the posi- tion of Tobias Len. While I may or may not agree with the con- tent of his article, I back him up one-hundred percent on the grounds that his article be printed fairly. It is simply un- fair to have it criticized and hung around campus saying \is this guy for real?\ referring to its author.

I· I f' A iih... ~ ~ I do lly 1is he rer )te ve re- :he lot ng tey m- Jn. to ith viii :rht ~ ,Ja- :tk- ~si­ lay Jn- tim the be un- Lild 11 is itO Former E.ditor Defends Concordy To the Editors~ I am writing in response to two let- ters submitted by Douglas M. Schneider and E. W. Abbott, Ill which verbally assaulted The Concordiensis and its edi- tors. I would first like to respond to Mr. Abbott's claim that The Concordienvis is a \miserable excuse for a journal of news/information\ and that the news- paper is in. a \truly dismal state.\ I have worked on The Concordiensis since my freshman year 1 have attended national newspaper conferences and have also done personal research to help better the Concordy and I can assure you that The Concordiensis is a top rate college news- paper. I would also like to assert that numerous professional journalists and editors have praised the newspaper and its contents (The Concordiensis won sec- ond place in the nation for Best of Show not too long ago). When Mr. Abbott uses such \deplor- able\ and petty tactics he proves beyond a reasonable doubt that he has no clue as to what a good college newspaper is. I would n()w like to respond to Mr. Schneider's letter. To begin with, any professional or college newspaper uses the tenn \.sic\ when there are grammar or spelling errors in a letter to the editor and it is not the responsibility of any Concordiensis editors to copy edit the let- ters. This is done to ensure that the author of the letter takes full responsi- bility for such errors-just as The Concordiensis takes full responsibility of errors that are published in articles. The editors of The Concordiensis in no way \manipulate\ or \abuse\ their power to avoid personal criticism, for if they did they would not have printed ei- ther of your letters. No one questions your freedom to disagree with things that are published in the newspaper, however with your disagreements you too muct be willing and mature enough to handle criticism. I believe that beth Mr. .Abbott and Mr. · Schneider do not have enough knowl- edge of college newspapers to assert that the Concordiensis is a \failure.\ I was always taught that unless I am exactly sure or have great knowledge about im- portant issuses I should just keep my mouth closed. I happen to think this is good advice to follow. · If you would like to call this letter egotisitcal go right ahead, however, I feel I am merely stating the facts. I have known the editors long enough to know that they are both mature adults, take their job seriously and in no way \bring down the appearance and validity of the entire newspaper.\ They care about Union College, for if they did not they would not be involve.d with The Concordiensis. I fully stand behind them and the entire neewspaper staff and I am very impressed with the quality of the newspaper. Sincerely, Diana Sedita \97 Former Editor m Chief of The · Concotdiensis · The Aftermath of Last Thursday's Bombing Dear Editors, I feel like Haley's comet. When I pass by, everyone looks at me. I am not a communist. I feel like Fidel Castro. I'm living in a bi-polar world where one nation-state boycotts my country and I'm forced to unite with another superpower. A superpower that supports my country to the fullest, especially financially. I think I'm going to purchase a few satellites to watch my back. I see missiles aimed at me. This school has bad race relations and I see another bomb ready to explode. I got my grenades ready, my missiles are operational and my soldiers are strong. I represent a long awaited uprising. I am a leg of the Sleeping Giant who just woke up. I am the leg that made the first step. lplan to travel like Gulliver. I can't do this alone though. I need support from my other leg, arms, body and head. You know who you are. I got your back, but you best to watch your front. Cause it's those people in front who be on the hunt. Vincent Lopez Executive Detonator Contractors for Explosive and Lethal Anns OP/ED CAMPUS ACTION VOICES by Meredith R. Miller Page 9 Naturally, the week I volunteer to give my \voice\ to the Campus Action either too much or too little is going on for me to respond to, or complain about. could bombard the friendly reader with catch phrases like apathy, meal Ill J~oi1:tOPiholb1'a, the niotto; but if you have gotten through the paper this far, you a break. This is by no means to undennine the importance of the things we love discuss; I just don't feel like fonnally writing abottt them. So, instead I've cmhon'lii~Ptl a poem that throws a good deal of words at you, titled of course after Allen line ;'America, how can I write my holy litany in your silly mood?\ The .,u 15 , ... ., .. ~, .. then is to consider that America is still in a silly assmood some forty years later, nothing is all that holy. Holy Litany herein, red hug-eyed, mirror's tale qf each lale l!f hair out of place, washing the day off my face, drops, streams of regret. mistakes, absorbed in terry cloth damp day unfolded herein, stubbly legged, razor's edgy climb and descent over a bare body, bald of co11ifort; shaving people~· politics from places that don't get enough sunlight, that don't sit right in white,formica kitchens. herein, soul art-stained, brnshes' turpentine curse idealism a.'i idolatry, wishing I could paint my anger with out red and black rat pesticides or urine ridden front page news. herein, x-mas wrapped, bus window~'i neon microcosm of souls delivered, & souls denied, spied darting and bending in a .fugue (if blocks uptown; wondering whatjesus saves upfor. herein, cupid- zapped, lip's cautious drown into a careful, sensitive realm where anything you do or say can and will be used against you .. herein, thinner-inhaled, sand paper~'i beveled edge in a climactic rhythm over a radio t.fj, fining solace in the confusion; the interuption of my own petty tradgedies. herein, tits targeted, night's insecurity befalls any innocent exchange, iearing what ifs of walking too slowly by a dark ally, or standing too close to the track<; on a subway plaiform. herein, horror stalked, calamity~'! prey over educated and undeifed, knowing so little of what there is to know, but that knowledge just enough to put them at risk. herein, acid stone washed, fashion~~· bought and sold, bought and sold, styling shapes and sizes by glos~y curves withering sickly toward\· the ribs, (adam's own metaphor i suppose.) herein, disappointment calloused, numb's wealthy assortment of escapes routes, like drMng off a cliff on a full tank, plugging into the wall, or an illegal brain cell massacre of some kind 11111erem poem stenciled, mold~\· mistakes ca.vt away for another day, shaping lies lies, in which here lie, the multitudes of hereq[ler. Thanks For The Insight on Love To the Editor: . I've just been sitting in my kitchen looking over the Feb. 15 issue of Concordiensis. My husband and I were on a visit to Union this past weekend with our son Russ. I picked up a copy of the paper because of I was told there was a review of the play \Six Degrees of Separation\ which we saw and enjoyed at the Yulman Satur- day night. However, before reading the review, I happened on your article \An Exploration of Love.\ I felt compelled to let you know I'm very impressed with your insight. . . it's really a won~erful piece. It would seem that some of the principles you write of are outside the realm of the experience of the typical college student. Yet, you've helped me solidify the answer to a question that's been on my mind for some time now. Actually you raised the question yourself: \If we all have Love within us and acting on it brings a oneness with ourselves and others, why doesn't everyone act on love consistently?\ I think the step one must take is a big one, and many fail. That is, to put aside all feelings of selfishness (which could be as simple as not be willing to give time to the other person in need) as well as elimination all feelings of judgment (very hard to do). I find that urging to act on Love is often a very quiet prompting, easily smoth- ered out by all the involvements and activities of one's life. Well Editor, ... enough said on my part in an unsolicited letter. My main point was to thank you for a piece that made me start the day thinking about something worthwhile. Good Luck, Kathy Kleekamp Bedford, MA

Page 10 ·OPtED The Concordiensis ·February 29, 1996 ' ' ' · · -- · · · Letters .· . . . . . . . . Response to Last Week's Article on CELA Dear Editor, As a member of ALAS for the past four years, and as an Execu- tive Board member for the past three years, I feel that it is my duty to respond to the misrepresenta- tions and false allegations that were levied against ALAS in the last issue of tJ'ie Concordiensis. Although it pains me to ad- dress these issues through such a forum, clearly mean-spirited statements such as those stated in the article, have forced my hand. Firstly, I must seriously question the joumalistic integrity of the author of the article, Bran- don D. Declet. Although I realize the terms Concordiensis and joumalism are mutually exclusive, never have I read a more biased article in my four years here at Union. In a situation wl1ere individu- als are quoted, and an organiza- tion is derided as acting contrary to its established goals, it is only reasonable that the quoted indi- viduals and the leaders of the or- ganization be contacted for reac- tions. It appears that the author found it prudent not to do so. Not only was it a poorly written artic~e, but statements such as, \ ... recent ac- tion by the group{ ALAS], includ- ing the blat~t under-representa- tion of Latinos has led to the for- m~tioil ofCELA,\ needto be bol- stered by some semblance ofarl' ' argmhent. Are we to take your word, Brandon? Have you been so active in the struggle for too politically active, and that Latino representation that you can turned away some students. This be considered an authority on the is thus the flaw with the complaint subject? Don't bother to answer... concerning cultural representa-. it was a rhetorical question. tion. If Latinos are nqt present to Let lis now tum our attention represent their own culture, then to the substance of the article, itwillnotbeproperlyrepresented. and the issues raised. ALAS is It is not a conscious effort to the African and Latino Alliance \shut down\ anyone's cultural ofStudents. Formorethan twenty concerns, rather, the cultural is- years, we have been the most ac- sues raised are those that affect tive voice in the struggle for Black the membership. Therefore, if and Latino empowerment on there are more v·ocal Blacks Union College's campus. Indeed, · present, more Black issues will be most of the progressive actions raised. that the College has taken have As an attempt to address this been a direct result of pressure concern of Latino representation applied by ALAS, specifically the in ALAS, a workshop was spon- Action Committee. The pressure sored in the fall that dealt directly has resulted in gains for Blacks, with Black-Latino relations within Latinos, and the general campus organizations such as ALAS. community. ALAS doesnotfight Sadly, the only people who for Black issues, we fight for di- showed up for the workshop were versity issues. If anyone were to Black students. Not even those take a cursory glance at our ac- individuals in Declet's article who complishments, this fact would are so concerned with these is- become very evident.. sues made an appearance. There- So, then what are the real issues fore, to make a blanket statement that we are dealing with? Politi- that we attempt to underrepresent cally, ALAS represents the ideal Latinos is very malicious and de- of cultural plurality, which does ceitful because it is simply not not favor one race's issues over true. The fact is thatthe vast rna- another. Therealissuehereisthat jority of the members of CELA some students do not feel that were not, and have never been ALAS represents the cultural con- active members of ALAS. In that cems of Latinos. To address this sense, ALAS is not splitting. This argument, we have to go back a is simply a matter of a group of few years when ALAS sponsored students fonning a new club. The a Latino Fomm to ascertain the tragedy in all this, however,is that reasons for the low level of Latino these students feel that they have attendance; The overriding 're--' · todenigrate anpther group in or-. sponse that was given· by many . .der to raise themselves in their individuals was that ALAS was' own eyes. For the most part, I have no problem with the formation of CELA. What 1 do have a huge problem with are the lies and com- plete fabrications that some mem- bers of the group.are putting forth. Again, according to the article, they were surprised by the politi- cal reaction from ALAS after their club's inception. Of course, they neglected to mention the political reaction. Perhaps they fmgot what the reaction was, or maybe they misplaced their notes some- where. In actuality, the reaction was not mentioned because there was no reaction. The only thing that bas spurred a quasi-political reaction is the demagoguery that was printed last week. My initial reaction to the article was that of shock, then anger. However, the anger subsided and sadness filled its place. The an- ger and sadness was not of a per- sonal concern. The anger and sadness was not for me, because I am a senior and I will be leaving this madness soon. My sadness · stemsfrom the fact that therewas no thought given as to the reper• cussions that such an article might have. Not only might rela,. tions be damaged on this campus from an underclassman perspec- tive, but it beautifi).lly played right into the hands of those who are against diversity on this campus. Obviously oblivious to the con- tent of the article, and to the world in which we live, an indiVidual was quoted as saying that CELA was not created to cause controversy. It is my hope that that individual will make the othennembersaware · 'of that concept. If not, then the United We Stand, Divided We Fall concept will have too real a mean- ing on tl1is campus. Lastly, one of the goals of CELA, according to their consti- tution, is to \encourage and pro- mote unity amongst the members and other organizations.\ If last week'sarticl'eandthis goal strikes you as oddly contradictory, I sin- cerely doubt that you are alone in yourfeelings. So, tothemembers ,of CELA, I suggest that yo\1 ex- amine the ciunpus and realize .the power structures which truly :fi-us- trate yol.ll' Latino voice. Perhaps then you will realize that we have more in common than YOt1 think. And to those who might feel in~ timidated, I realize that it is much easier to attack individuals, as opposed to looking at ways to communicate directly, with cour- age and honesty. Although I was upset by all the misrepresenta• tions, I don;t blameyou, l only pity you because you fail to see how your derogatory words are an extension of Black-on-Black crime. Now, as I stated earlier, it pains me to use such a medium for these issues, and this is my first;· and shall be my last state- ment on this topic. Sincerely, Victor Owusu Please see our Ap'olog'y' on Page three--ED. The Positive Aspects of CELA's Creation Peggy Samedi Staff Writer l11e power of the written word is one of the first lessons that stu- dents learn in school. Teachers educate students that if you do not write the right words no one will understand your message. The written word l1as the power to start wars and make peace among nations. That kind of power must used with intelligence, !,'ltidance and wisdom. So with that in mind, there has been some controversy going around campus and the school paper has been its main outlet to tl1e general public. The issue at hand did not erupt suddenly, it has been brewing for years. It was undemeath the belief that a show of unity among Black and Latino students would be the best course of action. l11is is probably the rea- son why A.L.A.S. (African and Latino Alliance of Students) was created. l11e creation of A.L.A.S. was, in all practicality, a good idea and worked well for years. It pro- moted diversity and gave Black and Latino students a forum for venting their frustrations and fears. The students who created A.L.A.S. on this campus were pioneers at Union. l11eir job was not easy or much fun but they knew that it had to be done; so future generations would have an easier time living and growing at Union. They did their job well and can proud be of the changes that have come to Union. l11e problem is, though, that in recent years the Latino students have felt that their issues were not being dealt with in a manner that they could feel comfortable with. The idea of C.E.L.A.(Circulo Estudiantil Latino Americana) had been brewing for years. Fi- nally, Latino students took their responsibility for the own welfare on this campus. Do not be mis- taken, there are still Latino stu- dents in A.L.A.S. Then why th~ creation ofC.E.L.A? Besides the fact that C.E.L.A. is a separate entity within itself; it was created simply for those students who had tried to be ·members of A.L.A.S. and felt that they couldn't. Does tbis represent a division among the Blacks and Latino on Union campus? Many people thought it did. The creation of C.E.L.A. did net come with good vibes. Behind the scenes, stu- dents and administration watched and questioned the ra- tional of this move. Many stu- dents, including tl1e writer of this article, saw the possibility for di- saster. But if people took the time to stop and think about the pos- sible good that can come from this, then the pros outweighedlhe cons. The existence ofC.E.L.A. does not create a division, it reunifies the Black and Latino students. With two organizations on cam- pus, each d()ing something on their own to promote diversity and working together on differ- ent projects, then it will promote a peaceful coexistence and dissi- pate all the differences among the members of A.L.A.S. and C.E.L.A. Times have changed and people have to change with them. The assumption that C.E.L.A. ere- ated a division was based on fear and monetazy val\le. C.E.L.A. is a fledging organization trying to stand on its own and make a name for itself. A.L.A.S. has· been around for a long time and it is well respected by the stu- dents and administration alike. Maybe it is time tliey sat down at a table and recognize that their need each other. The stntggle of changing misconceptions and stereotypesofpeople sometimes has to start with changing some of our own misconceptions of ourselves. Carto-on Questioned To the editor: What's up with the cartoons bashing the womyn's union? Sure, the 'Y' may not have been too good an idea, but I don't think it warrants the constant negative attention its being given by your cartoonist. It makes me feel that your cartoonist de- serves some more disrespect ( it seems my first letter was to · . subtle). Quit bugging the womyn's union and divert your atten- . tion to issues that people need to know. Can I suggest some- thing a little more intellectually stimulating, like the presidential primaries currently going on. A cartoon can still retain its funny side while educating its readers. Mr. Richman, no offense, but get with the program. Akinwunmi Sawyerr '98.

e e e e n Last Week's Opinion On Policy in Iraq Que.stioned Dear Editors, Once in ~while, art article <;omes through the Concordiensis that does o.ot have anything to do with apathy, dining :services, or the Nott Memorial but still blows my mind at th.e ability of it to get printed as a sincere, supposedly well thought out piece. To my dismay, last week's article written by Matt Sandler contributed to this genre. by wishing for peace and stability in th~ Middle East in ()nly a way Disney could deliver. I fully .agree with Mr. Sandler on one point: it would be very nice to have Saddam Hussein .out of I:taq. However, Sandler's desire that Hussein sbould have been taken out during the GulfWar ignores the circumstances ofthe.time, The reason we went to war with Iraq was toremovethem from Kuwait, and, bad we continued to take~ over Iraq, the intematiomtl Otttrage would have been immense. That is why we had toleave him there~ Second, there are a few more points that Sandler ov.erlooked (or ignored for the benefit of his argument). He infers that the forces in the region are not enough to stop Hussein another time. Are you telli9g me that20 ,000 troops in the region, along with a newly annored Saudi Arabia and Kuwait (done in response to the Gulf War) are not enough to slow down Hussein? We had NOBODY in there when he first invaded and he still ·stopped. TI1irdly, Sandler's idea of a \lockout arc\ is astroke of mythical genius. However, the Arabs no longer want us there (regardless of if we mix with other Arabs or not; the past bombing against Americans in Riyadh should be an exall1ple of this). In addition, does Mr. Sandler really believe that Jordan, a recognized ally .of Iraq during the war, would suddenly allow westerners to form an \offensive deployment\ strategy in their nation against a fellow Islamic state? There isnoway. Finally, Sandler claims that Hussein believes the US would not try to stop him, especially during an election year. This is pathetic. One sl1ould remember how, just months ago,the ~lies reacted in strength by sending 20, 000+ troops to assist the other 20,000 (already thete) when Saddam only hinted at invading. We would do it again. As well, there have been few sure~fire winners as effective as a war with Saddam to boost Presidential popularity - something the current President would love with the election upcoming. There are many more mistakes; too many to mention with the 500 word limit I am allotted. Mr. Sandler, I ask you to please think things through when you write some- thi~g on a world that actually exists. To claim that we are unprepared for someone who has much less thart before, and when we have since doubfed our ability to stop him, is simply .dumb. You are the editor of the Worlc:l News section, not the horoscopes. D b ~1. ·''. ' . ,. '(' .l).em~m · .~r >L~~at. . ···' . , , . . ,. ... :.. . · · ·' \ · \ ' . ~ Sincerely, Mike Nelson '97 Wells House Debate A Success Dear Editor: I wanted to take this opportunity to thank Mike Ferguson and .all the residents of Wells House for spons(!)ring, coordinating and publicizing tl1e Wells House.debat-e last Wednesday. I would also like to thank Jen Lawless who aided my position durlng the forum: and to recognize Bill Ferguson and Mike Elmendorfwho participated in the event. The <lebate at Wells House was one of the most exciting and well- attended events that I have been a part of here at Union College, I was very glad to see about seventy or so students attend the event artd participate in an intelligent conversation regarding those issues that affect students most. In response to the resent rash of \apathy\ letters written to the Concordiensis, I offer as evidence events such as those sponsored by Wells House that prove Union students are not apathetic. at heart. I atn confident that the future will bring more opportunities for not only the Union College Democrats artd Union College Republicans to debate, but for other campus groups to engage in thoughtful discussions. Thanks again to Wells House for initiating such a meaningful event .Sincerely, John R. Vero, President UNION COLLEGE DEMOCRATS Editorials, Letters & Disclaimers Letters to the Editor should he addressed to the OPIED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the· Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions conce['Jling printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the ~pinion of the Editorial Board. Editoriais reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particulat. Any opinion columils, or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Boatd. Advertis~ements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Ccmcordiensis is published eight Thursdays a tenn by the students of Union College. It is fundeCI in part by the Student Activities Fee, The Concordiensis, copyright 1996, all rights reseJVed. Box 2577, College Center, Union Cotiege, Schenectady, New York 12308. Telephone (5Ji8) 388• 6155. The Conaordiensis is printed by World Media, 1104 Central Avenue, Albany. NY, 12205. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, & King Syndicates. OP/ED PSEUD~O-POLITICS Dear Editors, This past Wednesday evening, I attended the debate between the campus Demo- crats and Republicans, hoping to engage in atl intellectually stimulating activity outside the classroom. Within five minutes, however, it became apparent that such would not ensue; rather, the debate could be characterized as a sexist forum where Greek issues werdnappropriately raised and politics trivialized. As a senior, I am disappointed that when the rare opportunity to discuss pertinent issues arises, it occurs in a manner that not only circumvents the purpose, but one that also alien- ates those students whose views may not be well received. Of the four members of the panel, one was female. Thrcughout the debate it became increasingly apparent that she was not treated in the same fashion as the male members. She was not only repeatedly interrupted by the men on panel, but also by the men in the audience, and felt compelled to raise her hand to speak, a behavior in which none of the men had to engage, and was chastised when she attempted to discuss \women's issues.\ Essentially, the behavior by many of the participants indicated that, contrary to the environment one expected to find at the debate, one in which politics and not gender was of paramount significance, an atmosphere in which one's sex determined his or her credibility prevailed. If overt sexism was not enough of a problem, bringing the Greek system into art entirely irrelevant forum certainly was. Whether or not one is pro Greek is an issue completely separate from politics. TI1ere was no rationale to debating it along party lines because this is an issue that transcends the borders of both the Democratic artd Republican parties; both sides include those who support and those who oppose Greek life. Most importantly, though. this is an issue that is of extreme local importance; devoting the concluding ten minutes of the hour to Greek life, when welfare, health care, affinnative action, and. education were only a few among the plethora of issue.s not addressed, demonstrates the narrow vision that set the tone for the entire event. Perhaps the most disturbing aspect of the debate involved the matmer in which the less than serious publicity attracted an audience that expected entertainment, albeit at the expense of serious discussion. Granted~ politics cart be laughed about, debated in a light hearted fashion, and looked at infonnally. T11is, however, should not have been the intent .of tl1e debate. When students on a college campus assemble to discuss politics, one expects an atmosphere of educational enlighten- ment and intellectual stimulation. TI1rough the inappropriate use of signs held behind the panelists' heads andthe ultimate arm wrestling match to determine the \winner\ of the debate, there was no question as to tlte real p:urpose; entertainme11t. .· ,, . Phrased.succinctly~ I .am not an overly zealous feminist, do not devote a large portionofinyHmetoanalyzing the benefits and detriments ofth~ Greek system,.and . · look forward to light hearted, entertaining activities. It was my impression when I attended the debate last week, though, that I would be in art environment where panelists would be treated equally. regardless of gender, issues of national impor- tance would be coveted, and students would attend because they were genuinely interested in the topic at hand. It is disappointing to realize that even when Union fosters an activity potentially conducive to educating, enlightening, and stimulat- · ing the student body politically, many of the participants' behavior artd attitudes, a~ well as the overall manner in which the activity is carried out, defeat the entire purpose. Sincerely, Kelly Herrington Anonymous Attacks Denounced To the editor: I have always respected people who were bold enough to come out and say what they believed in. Tobias Len is one ofthose people. Every day ofhis life he speaks what he believes and he backs himself up with proven facts. I do not necessarily agree with his views or his support ofPat Buchartart, but the last time checked the United states Constitution granted everyone freedom of speech. I am writing thi~ letter in response to the anonymous poster put up around campus. Whomevetputuptheposters, put them up to refute Toby's views. The act was done in a cowardly fashion. The resources you put into refuting this argument could have been used to write a letter to the Concordiensis. Your letter could have been one supporting the candidate of your choice or a polite letter . stating the reasons why you disagreed with J\ifr. Len. You blatantly abused a man for speaking for what he believes in. I can't respect you for that. You had good points to back your rebuttal, but you chickened out and took an easy route. You should have done your research and written a letter based on it. Instead you photocopied a magazine excerpt and hung copies of it all round campus. The least . you could have done was to write yourname on the posters. TI1e least you can do · now is redeem yourself by apologizing for your misdeeds. Thanks Akinwunrni Sawyerr '98. PS I wrote tl1is letter assumingthattheposters were put up by one person. If they were put up by a group of people. the group should know my letter is directed to all those involved.

Page 12 February 29, 1996 'arlfe C!1otu(trbieusis THE SCREENING ROOM: by Lawrence Paska Arts Editor \City Hall. \ Starring AI Pacino, John Cusack, Bridget Fonda, Danny Aiello. Directed by Harold Becker. Rated R, Columbia Pictures. Rating: *\'\'(out of four) In City Hall, AI Pacino plays John Pappas, who is to New York City what Michael Douglas was to the entire nation in The American President: a model leader. His inspiration is Fiorello La Guardia. the legendary mayor of the Big Apple. He tries to manage the city in its best interests, not his own- already you know the story is a highly fictiomllizedaccountofapolitician. Within the first ten minutes, a vigilante cop shoots and kills a minor member of a Mafia family, being killed himself, and tak- ing a six-year-old boy on his way to school with them. The mayor is grief-stricken, re- alizing the effects this crime could have on the city and his administration. Hisyoung deputy mayor. Kevin Calhoun (Cusack), investigates tile shootout and discovers that the dead Mafia man was given proba- tion for a serious offense, only to have the probation reports switched. Someone high up in the bureaucracy Jet this man go free. proves himself an emerging actor as the Louisiana-born Calhoun. His blankstare serves his character well, as if he, s<figuring · out the pieces to a puzzle he's never seen in his three years serving under Pappas. After being. swamped with forgettable roles in awful movies {Money For Nothing City lf~/1 is intriguing, even when the pace is slow and the answers seem few and obvious. At his trail to find the truth,Ca1houn pairs with a snappy lawyer (Fonda). who repre- sents the dead policeman's wife. Soon, clues point in many directions, with in- volvement potentially leading to a Brook- lyn Democratic party boss (Aiello ),a judge who signed the initial probation rep!lrt (Landau), .and the mayor's own chief of staff(David Paymer). City Hall is intriguing, even when the pace is slow and, the answers seem few and obvious. Pacino portrays a sympathetic politician wh() ends up losing control of his own command. Despite his strong stat .. u:-e as an actor •. he occupies considerably less.screen time compared to Cusack, who comes to .mind), Cusack fin~tlly gets a chance to \make it or break it.\ Fonda, on the other hand, is given a part which only highlights her limited .range as an actress. She conveys facial expressions so pitifully -is it any wonder she's had few starring roles since Pojnt of No Return? Aiello portrays the characterlte's always been good at: a bad guy with a good heart, caught in the wrong business. ~erealizes the situation has gotten the better of him and is beyond his control. Becker's direc- tion does not capture the beautiful 'Scen- ery ofNew York • s skyline; instead,hetake~ you right into the streets, the shady res- taurants, and the offices where deals are Arts & Entertainment made. So what is there not to like about City Hall?- For some reason, it never is the sprawling epic it pretends to be. While the dialogue is comprehensible and real-to-life .(one ofthe co ... scripters is GoqdFell~sand Casino man Nicholas Pigglegi),thescenes get a bit heavy at times, and the climactic moment between Pappas and Calhoun could have used some condensing. By the end, the plot becomes confusing, and it is difficult to sift through aU of the,: conclu- sions that have been reached. And while Pacino is always a good actor, his over- the-top yelling is grating on everyone's nerves by now. The eulogy he gives atthe boy's funeral is as laughable for his over- blown line delivery asitis for its own self- importance. At least the sad look in his eyes com- pensates-· . Pappas is a remorseful mayor, even if he could not do things any differ- ently. City Hal/Is an interesting drama that is just ,Jong enough to entertain and make us question politics while not quite bold enough to make us remember itshortly after we~ ve seen it. Crimes of the Heart: a Union Production Bet/1 Decker and Dave Strickland (photo by Rick Letlerer/TC) Loca{ 5\.rts Ca{enaar SAil !RDAY,MAROI2 Chicago City Limits, the touring company ofNew York's . longest running corned y show. will appear for two perfor- mances at the Empire Center at The Egg. The company Vv'ill perform at 3 PM in a program geared for children and faJlli- lies and again at 8 PM in an adult presentation. The group has been performing its unique style of comedy and impro- visation former fifteen years. Tickets for the 3 PM performance are $10. For the 8 PM · show, tickets are $18 for adults and $15 for seniors. For further information and reservations, contact the Empire Center at The Egg Box Office at 473-I 845. EXHIBITS OPENING MARCH9 (Albany Jn.rtitute ofHis- tory & Art) A Passion for Fashion: London and Paris Style in Al- bany ( 1740-1870): ·Fashionable dress worn by people in Albany during the 18th and 19th centuries. The costumes will be featured in a soon-to-be-published book highlight- . ing the museum's extensive art and decorative arts coli ec- tion. In the East and West Galleries until June 9. Curator's Choice: New Acquisitions: Highlights ofthe new acquisitions to the Albany Institute collection selected by the museum 'sChiefCurator. In the Main Hall until June 9. Ancient Structures: Fiber, paper, glass, and bronze ex- • plored by seven artists. Curated by Janis Keane Dorgan. In the Rice Gallery until May 26. The Institute is located at 125 Washington Avenue in downtown Albany. The museum and Rice Gallery are open Wednesday-Sunday, noon untiiSl>M. Catl463-4478 for more infonnation. by Shaheen Ma hmud, Raquel Mintah and tawrence Paska Arts staff Union College presents Crimes of · , the Heart, directed by Lee Rose, Feb- mary 28 & 29, March 1 & 2 and March 6- 9 at 8 PM in the Yulman Theater. The play. written by Beth Henl.ey, teems with humanity and humor as it examines the plight of three young Mississippi sisters betrayed by their passions. The play is set in Hazlehurst, Mis- sissippi, where the three Magrath sisters have gathered to await the Above:L/411 Burnett and Gabrielle Molyneaux (photo by Rick Ledererfl'C) news of the family patriarch, their grandfather, who is living out his last hours in the local hospital. Lenny, the oldest sister. is unmarried at thirty and facing diminishing marital prospects~ Meg, the middle sister; who quickly outgrew Hazlehurst. is back after aniiled singing career on the West Coast~ while Babe, the youngest, is out on bail after having shot her husband in the stomach. Their troubles, which are grave and yet, somehow, hilari- ous, are highlighted by their priggish cousin, Chick, and by the awkward young lawyer who tries to keep Babe out of jail while helpless not to fall in love with her. In the end, the play is the story of how its young charac- ters escape the past to seize the fu- ture. Of the characters, Rose said, \The play js about everyday kinds of . people. The type of people you would be able to recognize.\ The play deals with personal interaction in a comic fashion, also touching upon the is- . sues of unfulfilled careers, suicide, and attempted murder. This play is also the first time actors have gotten to work :witha faculty member~. there- fore, it is an experience for them. Above: Jamie Deresftinskyand Liz.a Burnett (plioto by Rick LedeTer/Fq Rose said he chose this play because he felt that it would appeal to the people auditioning for it. He is really excited to be working in the YuJman Theater for the first time. The play is arranged as a\ box set,\ with three acts taking place in the same room, making it an easier show to put on frorn a technical viewpoint. David Strickland plays Doc, one of the sister's boyfriends. He commented that. \it's about three sisters who come to a reunion,because one sister shot her husband. Therefore, they are all coming together. The play is about relationships.\ Strickland likes the play and is glad to be in it, noting that \it's worthwhile and everyone should go see it.\ Tl1e last show on March 9 is already sold out! I Get your tickets NOW. For ticket information, call the Yulman Theater Box Office at 388-6545. Box Office hours are Monday-Friday 1-5 PM. and it also opens at 7 PM on the nights of the performances.

{ l f s ) It j y ., . theater UNION presents Beth Henle.y's PuliUer Pri~ winning play - ~'- ' . . -' . .- .- •\' .. ··l'fl'•• February 2$, 2~, March J; 2, 6, 7, 8,· 9, .1996 . . Directed by Lee Role at tb~ Yultnafl Theater, Un~o~ C~.U~ge Tic~eu: $S w/Unlon ID, $~ Geraer~l P11bllc. Sox Offi~e: 3S8-6S4S Petitions will be available starting today through next week to run for the positions of Sophomore Class Vice-President and Sophomore ~lass TreaS,Urer. -Petitions ca,n b~ taken out from . the Student Activities Office on the fourth floor of the Reamer Campus Center· and will be due Friday, March 2 by 4:00pm. Elections will be held on March 8th in the Reamer Campus Center. Don:t pass up this great chance to get involved with Student Forum!! ' . . . . ' ,~. ' ' . . - __ .•e <!.I'·JI•• HAROLD LOHNER RECEN·r .PI'ZIN·rs AND L)RAWINGS SILENT HEROES JANUARY 29- MARCH I, I 996 UNION COLLEGE ARTS ATRIUM OPEN DAILY 9AM-6PM Write for Arts & Entertainment Call Larry at X6155! iens Sighted in Florida! Spend Spring Break in Another Dimension • Courtesy of Walt Dis11ey World Co. An alien encounter with a five-scream climax, a 55- mph water-slide plummet, and a 13-story fall ina shaky hotel elevator are just some of the newest Walt Disney · World thrills awaiting college students during Disney Break '96. · And special student discounts add to the adventure. February 11-April 16, students can spend all day at • any one Disney theme park for $26 ($11 off regular ad-. mission), then play aU night free on Pleasure Island-· · · homeofPlanet Hollywood -with a wild street party. seven hot nightclubs. plus confetti and fireworks at mid- . night. To receive the total savingsofmorethan $27 (pl~­ sure island regular admission is $16.95), students must present valid college ID card when purchasing the spe- cial ticket. Student thrills include: .. ExtraTERRORestriaiAlien Encounter at the Magic Kingdom, a sensory thriller from Disney and filmmaker George Lucas featuring a mysterious corporation from a ·distant planet attempting the teleportation of a living be- ing through interplanetary space. The experiment goes awry with terrifYing results. -Summit Plummet, the world's tallest, fastest (55.- mph)tree-fall speed slide awaits at Blizzard. Beach, a water park themed to a Northern ski resort, compl.ete with snow-capped mountains in the midst of d tropical lagoon. Other Blizzard Beach highlights include water- . slide runs~ whitewater rafting, flumes and an inRer-tube run. - The Twilight Zone Tower and Terror at Disney- MOM Studios, where visitors venture into another di- mensionbefore taking a \faster-than-free-fall''plunge from the 13th floor down an elevator shaft ... into the Twilight Zone. -Honey, I Shrunk the Audience at Epcot, a 3-D mis- adventure presented by Kodak that will leave students screaming- and shrinking- in their seats! For additional guest information about Walt Disney World Resort, call (407) 824-4321. 75 years of music WRUC

':' I '' .. · 14 Science and Techno What's New in Health News by Dennis Popeo Science and Medicine Editor Fake Fat Late in January, the Food and Drug Administration approved Olestra - a fat based substitute for conventional fats. Olestra was developed by Procter & Gamble Co. for use in snack foods. Olestra will add no fat or calories to the food it is added to. Thus, foods made with Olestra, such as potato chips, tortilla chips, crackers and other usually highly fattening snacks will be lower in calories· and in fat than their counterparts made with real fats. The Food and Drug Admin- istration (FDA) tests all food ad- ditives invented for use in this country, primarily focusing on the safety of the products tested. In the case of Olestra, the FDA not only focused on the toxicity of the product, but also the side effects of the fake fat, which include possible ab- dominal cramping, loose stools and the inhibition of bodily ab- sorption of fat soluble vitamins (Vitamins A, D, E, and K) and other nutrients, such as caro- tenoids. (Carotenoids are found in carrots and sweet potatoes, and may or may not be an im- portant compound for maintain- ing health.) With these seem- ingly serious side-effects, one may wonder why Olestra was passed for consumer use by the FDA. The FDA's studies ofOiestra concluded that the cramping and loose stools do not occur in the majority of the population and have no medical conse- quences. Also, studies demon- strated that the loss of nutrient absorption can be combated by adding the nutrients to foods containing Olestra. The FDA is also requiring that Procter & Gamble label all foods contain- ing Olestra with this little warn- ing: \This product contains Olestra. Olestra may cause ab- dominal cramping and loose stools. Olestra inhibits the ab- sorption of some vitamins and other nutrients. Vitamins A, D, E and K have been added.\ The FDA and Procter & Gamble trust that these labels will give consumers enough information to decide wether or not to use Olestra. The FDA has also ordered Procter & Gamble to conduct studies to monitor consumption as well as the long-term effects of the additive. The FDA will review this data within 30 months. Procter & Gamble have already performed some 150 studies on Olestra and are sure that their product, which will be sold under the name Olean, will be a huge success. The Peace Dividend in Action With the end of the Cold War, the world expected the many brilliant minds who worked on the offensive and defensive weaponry to begin to wmk for the good of mankind. One of the more interesting develop- ments of the peace dividends deals with breast cancer. Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala an- nounced recently that Russian Health Minister Alexander Tsaregorodtsev has joined in her efforts to use imaging tech- niques once used for missile and target recognition for the en- hancement of mammographies. It appears that the. technolegies once used to kill millions, may now save even more. Internet Medicine The World Wide Web has put a lot of information, from schol- arly articles to pornography at our fingertips, but the Net-surfer' must beware, especially if you are cruising the information su- perhighway for medical infor- mation. The Net has become a haven for quacks selling snake oil treatments for everything from baldness to HIV. Fraud over the internet is especially easy since any user can adopt any personality, as well as cite false or misleading references from legitimate scientific re- sources, such as the National In- stitutes of Health, or the Food and Drug Administration. You should always run any health advice you receive by a quali- fied professional, and remem- ber, let the buyer beware!!! Vaccines oftlre Future In the realm of medical re- search, one of the hottest ·new topics are vaccines that will end many deadly diseases of today. Vaccines for the flu, and many diseases are very well known, but how many people know of a vaccine for high cholesterol? Here is a brief look at sorne of the vaccines that will be Avail- able in the future. Cholesterol: Researchers at Walter Reed Army Medical Cen- ter in Washington, DC have dis- covered that people produce antibodies that help wipe out the cholesterol that clogs up their arteries. When the vaccine cre- ated from these antibodies was i . ected into rabbits, their blood cholesterol lever remained low when the rabbits were fed a diet that caused other non~vacci~ nated bunnies' cholesterol level skyrocket. EntreMed, a biophannaceutical company is at work on a hurnan version of the vaccine which can be used on people whose cholestero·l level doesn't respond to a low cholesterol diet. Herpes: This sexually trans- mitted disease affects as many as 20% of the people in North America. The vaccine, which is in clinical trials, is being tested to see if it will protect people with prolonged exposure to the virus from getting herpes. This vaccine could be on the market in five years. Lyme Disease: This scourge ofcampers is caused by a bac~ teria strain that lives in and is transmitted by deer ticks. The disease causes fatigue and ar- thritis in infected individuals. Scientists have reproduced and purified a protein that will in- crease immunity to the disease without causing any harmful side effects. The vaccine is in its final round of testing, and should be available in the next few years. Melanoma; This disease .js~the most prevalent and deadly form of skin cancer, it affects nearly 19,000. American men a year, killing 4,500. Those who wor- ship the sun can breathe a bit easier, for researchers at NYU School of Medicine are work- ing on a vaccine that will help those who are fair skinned or work outside in the blazing sun. The Vaccine works by stimu- lating the immune cells which hunt and kill abnormal cancer cells. AIDS: The plague of the twentieth century has killed mil- lions and will kill millions more because a vaccine is a remote possibility. One vaccine, gp 120, has excited many research- ers, but the National Institutes of Health vetoed funding for testing of the vaccine. Tofu Dreams If you have looked to those tasteless white cubes of Tofu that innocently sit in the salad bar at Upper-Class or West Din- ing halls with disgust, you may be missing a natural cholesterol fighter. In an analysis of nearly 40 studies, researchers at the Veteran's Affairs Medical Cen- terin Lexington, Kentucky have found that replacing animal pro- tein with 30 grams of soy pro- tein (tofu) a day will bring down LDL (bad) cholesterol by nearly 13%. A hate the thought of eating tofu, an easy way to enjoy the chunks of good stuff is to toss it into a soup. Swimmers' Ears The FDA has analyzed sev- eral brands of over the counter medication that claims to cure swimmer's ear, and has banned their sale QUtil the manufactur- ers can produce a product that can safely, and truly dry up wet ear canals. The best remedy for swimmer's ear is not to get it in the first place. Ear; nose and throat doctors suggest remov- ing water trapped in the ear by cocking your head to the side of the clogged ear, then gently pulling down on the earlobe. This will straighten ,out the ear canal and allow the water to run out. Sports and Chewing Tobacco While baseball players are usually t~ought of as the ath- letes with a hunk of tobacco wadded in their mouths, many others,especially teens, are hooked into this habit. Many athletes claim the tobacco gives them a competitive edge, but a June 2-July27, 1996 study performed by the Univer- sity of Washington School of Dentistry proves them wrong. Researchers found that baseball players who chewed tobacco played no better than those who chewed gum. The tobacco chewers did top the bubble gum chewers in two categories- precancerous oral lesions and receding. gums. Heartbum and Teeth If you gat heartburn from the food at Dutch, you are not alone, but do you realize what that does to your teeth? Chronic Heartburn is known as Acid Reflux by doctors, and occurs when stomach acid backs up into the esophagus and b1.1.rns its tender lining. If the acid escapes while you are ly- ing on your back, it can reach your teeth and erode them. To protect your teeth, elevate your head at least six inches in bed, or sleep on your left side (acid pools away from the esophagus because of the shape of the Stomach), and don't eat big meals within two hours of bed- time. Ithaca,~ New York • You. 're a lib.eral arts major. . . . . • You enjoy your field of study. You're good at it. •Nowbuildon your talents and accomplishments! Want to e!'plore the possibility of a career in international businessi The Cornell University Summer 'Prqgram· in International Business will provide an under- standing of the global economy and the skills needed to succeed in the business world. Business leaders stress the importance of the abilities and perspectives developed by a liberal arts education in today's global business environment. These indude the ability to reason critically and to solve problems; research and communication skills; and the knowledge and appreciation of other cultures. To these abilities, the Cornell University Summer Program in International Business will add and certify a coherent body of knowledge and skills directly related to international economic activity. All students in the Summer Program in International Business take the following four courses. (There are no course prerequi- sites.) Participants who successfully complete the program will receive twelve credits and a formal Cornell University certificate. • Government 331 The Political Environ- ment of International Business • Human Resources 468 Organization and Human Resources Management Simulation • Economics 206 Economics in ·Intern a- tiona! Perspective • Economics 1 05 Introduction to Finan- cial and Management Accounting School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions 820 Day Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853-2801 Telephone: 607 255-725.9 E-mail: sp®sce.cornell.edu Web site: http://www.sce.cornell.edu/CUSS/

Featur-es m~e <lloucar~ieusis February 29, 1996 PagelS . ' . - . . . Next Week is Natlo11al Poetry Week! Subn1it ·Your lvork to tlze Concordy! . Words, Words, Words .... Have You Synergistic and parasitic, the cloud settles on my being, both .obscuring and 'enhancing my perceptions. Flesh and· blood aetas mere vessels in which this cloud gathers and storms my inner landscapes. I pray fot some saviour breeze to come and dissolve this murkiness .that unsettles my being, but no such breeze can permeate the cocoon I wove around m~self. I spun this cocoon as a shield to defend my vulnerabilities; I had no idea that I was also· protecting my worst enemy. Oh, but how I wish I could deve:lop into a stronger individual capable of ripping open this pathetic cas- ing and casting out this cancer.,. ous growth. Well, it's the most growth I've experienced in a long time, and as plagued as I am by its psychic blackmail, I am forced to face the outside ' Beard? by Arya Chowdhury contributing. writer world. Disrupting the cocoon would only force the spirit .of my discontent to settle into an- other host. · Weli, the newspaper. An- other means to blow the clouds aw~y. even if it may spill over into other people's lives. Well, what els.e :have I tried' and failed? Poetry marks the art of language and symmetry ofpho- netics rather than the abstract essences like the motivation, the emotion, and the human com- ponent. This is what I seek; to sort what is most uniquely hu- man by somehow filtering re- flections of how I feel in writ- ing. Catharsis through writ- ing-· is it truly possible'? When yo:uwrite, you can dress up your problems however you fancy: with rhyme schemes, exotic fonts, funky letters, etc. Some- how, that seems counterproduc- tive, like eating a wonderful salad topped with bad dressing. So, here I pass it off to you, 0 collective consciousness that is Union. Is poetry successful, or is it sideshow entertainment, like a puppet show or a stand- up comedian? All our minds boun~e ideas and thoughts off each other, and it is both good and bad, for energy derives from .boththe positive· and nega- tive ends of the spectrum. Knowledge can he the most ef- fective medicine or the deadli- est poison, depending on how y()u use it. Likewise; the knowl- edge can either rain wonderful inspiration, or it can storm you with its ferocity and. savagery. Either way, you are helpless, .for it is truth and as such can not be denied. You either see the tur- moil of minds as a bastion ofin- tellectual stimulation or the backwash of negativity; what- ever it is, truth wins over blind belief, and we can choose whether to accept it or start the cycle of the storm once more. I'm Don Juan DeMarco--Nice to Meet You by Peter Sorensen Features Editor The tall; dark-skinned young boy stood on the beach, wind blowing through his hair and body. He stood sideways to the sea, facing the woman he loved. The sun was probably glinting in her eyes, reflecting over and through his, and long whispy clouds drew heavily upon the horizon, casting faint shadows along their silhouettes. He said, \My name is Don Juan DeMarco, I give women plea- sure; Ihave satisfied over 1500 women ... \ He probably didn't have to say this to her, because she already knew his angle--not too many guys wear capes and black leather. Retrospect: an hour and a half earlier (movie- time) DeMarco stood in a hotel cafe, cros·sed slowly and confidantly to a table for two, where an attractive woman sat w~itirtg. He didti't know her, and this did not cause him any hesitation; he knew only what he wanted, what he could give ... no matter that she was waiting for another-this is Don Juan. Our hero took the woman•s fingers in his hands and 'kissed the tips delicately. \There are some wom.en,\ he began, \whose fingertips are as sensi- tive as their toes. 1 ' And I'm sit- ting there thinking, u great line, big guy.\ Bitt lie continued: \whose knuckles are as sensi- tive as their knees ... (and he kissed her knuckles) ... whose thighs are ... u And he continued with the elaborate metaphor, eventually planting his lips where middle finger meets in- dex finger. Forward much, Don Juan? She gripped the table- cloth, her other hand turning white in desparation ... and their eyes locked. Then came re- le~e-upstairs in a room, not in the cafe--and she returned to her table to meet her pathetic (read: average) boyfriend. I can \still remember last spring when I saw that movie. It was one of those surreal sort of days,. of frisbee and sun and sunstroke and heat-delusions on west beach, and capping it with Don Juan secured its place outside of normalcy. We came home from the theater and lay on the grass, the sun now down, staring up at strange patterns of pink-orange pollution with a few jet trails mixed in to boot. I was felt like I was out there, like I was up in the clouds--in- cidentally this is ~ wonderfully The Souffle by Bertwok The day, the night, darkness brought to light my thoughts hidden in what might (if you knew) be construed as fright. But you don't, never could, and I'd never tell why hang with the chef when you can't smell? Nor taste her creation-no taste-bud elation a mouth which can't water, for it knows no sensation ... Your lot, God's mistake, I'm sorry Gaston, but your place I'll not take And she whispers, please leave go away---'-{)r my souffle will fall And you're staring at a fly, at the wan and you don't turn around because you can't hear at aU. She grips a french knife you smash the fly to the wall-paper you tum aroJnd, see her clutching the rapier But innocent eyes don't see well in the dark and you think she's a cauliflower with a sharp, shiny stalk. I know, you don't. You see, you won't and you can't begin to guess your world is morph rriine is just thoughts: applied,. perhaps, and out of your grasp intangible as ether, un-alive as the fly and brought to life by me, faintly to glow in my eye, by my side, along for the ride Would you have some souffle? she asked I tasted a bite ... poetic spanish metaphor for saying \I'm quite high--estoy en los nubes,\ which I wasn't, but no matter. Don Juan DeMarco some- how jumped into my soul, not necessarily as an idol, but as a personal metaphor for what we are and what we want to be. His illusory reality made crystal clear to me the importance of our dreams. What was he in real life? See the movie, if you haven't, its good; he was a punk; not much more or less. Just one more kid who wanted what he didn't have and innately feared, suspected or perhaps knew that if he tried he would fail. I guess it's far easier to pull back into your shell and dissappear into dream- land. When I get tired, when I've had enough and too much and don't want anymore all at once, I can lie down and effortlessly escape to where I want to be, to where I imagine myself to be a year from now ... two years ... and then I realize that I might get caught up just the way Don Juan DeMarco did, living in dream- land. But if you never have a dream, you can never have a dream-come-true, right? I guess I'm still searching for the bal- ance point. But lets go back to the windy beach, I think I kin:la liked it there ... Lets go back to spring, to lying around, to the number 1500 ... I'm laughing at myself right now, for that day, for countless drunken days of sober thought (no alcohol reference), for thoughts I wish I never had ... and I'm beating around the the real cause for my laughter, which quite simply is Don Juan DeMarco; its such a cliche. But that's all part of it, I guess. I have to go, I'm late for the beach. I've gotta get back to my real life, and leave this illusory world of politics and sociology and biology in my mind where it belongs, in my mind .. .let the colors peek through and just walk through the week until the sun is going down on the sand and the cool water is a short jog from my bed. And there won't be a dream in my head, but I'll be out there.

. \ \ ' ' ' ' , I Special Advertisement 'CHq.e QI.on;en~bi.ensi~ • February 29, 1996 • Page 16 JUNIORS AND SENIORS THE MARINES ARE LOOKING FOR STUDENTS TO TRAIN AS PILOT OFFICER CANDIDATES TO QUALIFY - Be a full time student in good standing. - Pass the Flight Physical and Flight Aptitude Exam. - Score well on the Marine Corps Physical Fitness Test. WHILE IN SCHOOL - Attend Officer Candidate School during your summer break. Juniors and seniors go for ten weeks this summer. -During the school year we stay out of your way, no special classes, uniforms, or mandatory training events. AFTER GRADUATION -You decide whether or not you want to serve as a Marine Officer. If you do, you'll go on active duty, attend The Basic Officer Course and then head to Pensecola, Florida as a student at Naval Flight School. If you decide that active duty and Flight School aren't for you, you'll decline your commission as a Second Lieutenant and you and the Marine Corps will part ways. It's that simple, that fast. FLIGHT TRAINING - Flight training starts during your senior year. The Marines will pay for twenty-five hours of instruction at a civilian flight school near your school, to give you a taste of what you're in for if you accept your commission. ·After the Basic Officer Course, you're at Pensecola, Florida for the real thing; Navy Flight School. When it's all over your workplace will be in the cockpit of a. high performanc~ jet fighter or helicopter. cal/1 800 342-2408

Special Advertisement IDqe Olonco:dtiensis • February 29, 1996 • Page 16 JUNIORS AND SENIORS THE MARINES ARE LOOKING FOR STUDENTS TO TRAIN AS PILOT OFFICER CANDIDATES TO QUALIFY - Be a full time student in good standing. - Pass the Flight Physical and Flight Aptitude Exam. -Score well on the Marine Corps Physical Fitness Test. WHILE IN SCHOOL - Attend Officer Candidate School during your summer break. Juniors and seniors go for ten weeks this summer. -During the school year we stay out of your way, no special classes, uniforms, or mandatory training events. AFTER GRADUATION -You decide whether or not you want to serve as a Marine Officer. If you do, you'll go on active duty, attend The Basic Officer Course and then head to Pensecola, Florida as a student at Naval Flight School. If you decide that active duty and Flight School aren't for you, you'll decline your commission as a Second Lieutenant and you and the Marine Corps will part ways. It's that simple, that fast. FLIGHT TRAINING -Flight training starts during your senior year. The Marines will pay for twenty-five hours of instruction at a civilian flight school near your school, to give you a taste of what you're in for if you accept your commission. - After the Basic Officer Course, you're at Pensecola, Florida for the real thing~ Navy Flight School. When it's all over your workplace will be in the cockpit of a high performanc~ jet fighter or helicopter. ca/11 800 342-2408

... ''· Personals and Classifieds McKech, Were those your breasts we saw in Poughkeepsie last weekend? Mo, MIA? No POC: Prisoner of.., G\E\R, You are having a good hair day. To the Pledges of Delta Delta Delta, We love you! Good luck with the rest of the term. Sari, Love,TheSisters of Delta Delta Delta I can't begin to tell you howe;x- cited I am! llove you! Love, Steph Blue- Can I help ya hel.p ya help ya? ... yeesh -Perpetually Paused Raquel, This may be long overdue, but congrats! I love you! P.S. The weekend was awe- some! Love, Stephie To All of Our Crushes, Hope you were all matched with your admirers. It was a lot of fun. -The Sisters of Delta Delta Delta Liz, Jack,+ Alii, It's almost over so don't worry- be happy. Spring Break is around the. corner. -your silly Room- mates. Nick R. So you didn't get sloshed? No worries, we'll definitaly have a make- up session. To our Sisters Abroad, We can't wait for you guys to ·come home. We are all looking forward to seeing you. -The Sisters of Delta Delta Delta Backus, The Rathskellar will now be open late night on Friday a~d Saturday evenings from 9:00pm- midnight. Mea/equivalencies are also accepted as on weekdays, and bottled beer will be offered 9:00pm-midnight. So come in and enjoy a midnight snack with your friends and listen to the jukebox. Play your favorite tunes ... Bring me back some Everest: Sweat Sandwich with lettuce and to~ mato. Love, DlB-N Backus, DON'T KILL ME FOR NOT WRJTING. EVERYTHING HERE STAYS THE SAME. MISS YOU. -JENN To all the people on the social commit- tee and everyone else that contributed the success of the activities over the weekend: Thanks for a great multicultural dinner and a fantastic win- ter affair. Last weekend was easily the best time I have had at Union. Hey Ruthie, great job as always. -Akinwunmi Sawyerr Mr.X-The money is in the fifth flower pot from the left. Return my little woogums unhanned and I'll arrange the weapons for diamonds deal. -Moo To Evan and Tony, You guys rock our world. Keep up the good work ... wc really mean it. Persistance is key. Love the News Goddesses Dearest Friends, With all the stress, and all the garbage we go through, its amazing we still talk. Why do we still talk? My favorite nights are those when we can not talk. All I know is Lucock never inhaled, I SWEAR HE DIDN'T. Run for president in '19, I can definately be Vee Pee. Splendor in Stone - ~ . ' ' .... . ;~· This renowned exhibit from the State Museum at ·. Albany of spectacular co lor photographs of thin sections of rocks visits the Nott Memorial on the Union College campus. January 22 to February 29 Thin sections are slices of rock 1/85Qth of an inch thick, glued to glass. Seen through a polarized light micro- scope, the rocks have colors and patterns that astonish and amaze! In addition to being unusual and dramatic abstract art, the colors and patterns can tell geologists about the .minerals present and how the rock formed. Open to all! You won't believe such images are real! Vermont schist, plane polarized I ight (actual width is 8 m m ) . .. , '

Personals and C.lassifieds McKech, Were those your breasts we saw in Poughkeepsie last weekend? Mo, MIA? No POC: Prisoner of ... G\E\R, You are having a good hair day. To the Pledges of Delta Delta Delta, We love you! Good luck with the rest of the tenn. Sari, Love, The Sisters of Delta Delta Delta I can't begin to tell you how ex- cited I am! I love you! Love, Steph Blue- Can I help ya help ya help ya? ... yeesh -Perpetually Paused Raquel, This may be long overdue, but congrats! I love you! P.S. The weekend was awe- some! Love, Stephic To All of Our Crushes, Hope you were all matched with your admirers. It was a lot of fun. -The Sisters of Delta Delta Delta Liz, Jack,+ Alii, It's almost over so don't worry- be happy. Spring Break is around the comer. -your silly Room- mates. Nh:k R. So you didn't get sloshed? No worries, we'll definitaly have a make- up session. To our Sisters Abroad, We can't wait for you guys to come home. We are all looking forward to seeing you. -The Sisters of Delta Delta Delta Backus, The Rathskellar will now be open late night on Friday and Saturday evenings from 9:00pm- midnight. Meal equivalencies are also accepted as on weekdays, and bottled beer will he offered 9:00pm-midnight. So come in and enjoy a midnight snack with your friends and listen to the jukebox. Play your favorite tunes ... Bring me back some Everest: Sweat Sandwich with lettuce and to- n;tato. Love, DIB-N Backus, DON'T KILL ME FOR NOT WRITING. EVERYTHING HERE STAYSTHESAME. MISSYOU. -JENN To all the people on the social commit- tee and everyone else that contributed the success of the activities over the weekend: Thanks for a great multicultural dinner and a fantastic win- ter affair. Last weekend was easily the best time I have had at Union. Hey Ruthie, great job as always. -Akinwunmi Sawyerr Mr.X-The money is in the fifth flower pot from the left. Return my little woogums unharmed and I'll arrange the weapons for diamonds deal. -Moo To Evan and Tony, You guys rock our world. Keep up the good work. .. we really mean it. Persistance is key. Love the News Goddesses Dearest Friends, With aH the stress, and all the garbage we go through, its amazing we still talk Why do we still talk? My favorite nights are those when we can not talk. Alii know is Lucock never inhaled, I SWEAR HE DIDN'T. Run for president iA '19, I can definately be Vee Pee. Splendor in Stone This renowned exhibit from the State Museum at Albany of spectacular color photographs of thin sections of rocks visits the Nott Memorial on the Union College campus. January 22 to February 29 Thin sections are slices of rock 1/85Qth of an inch thick. glued to glass. Seen through a polarized light micro- scope, the rocks have colors and patterns that astonish and amaze! In addition to being unusual and dramatic abstract art, the colors and patterns can tell geologists about the minerals present and how the rock formed. Open to all! You won't believe such images are real! Vermont schist, plane polarized Iight(actual width is 8 mm).

:·I Page 18 February 29, 1996 'm~e Qlan~nrbieusis Sports \A\ BASKETBALL LEAGUE I Lambs 5-0 Robots 4-1 Blue& Gold D Phi ·Phi Delt Beef LEAGUEU ·crown Us SigChiA TDChi Beta Boys Sam Devious Davidson ·Bomb Squad To Be Deter. 4-1 3-2 2-3 l-4 5-0 4-1 3-2 3-2 2-3 2-3 1-4 0-5 A LEAGUE PLAYOFFS: Sunday March 3 7:00 Sig Chi A vs. Lambs 8:00 Crown Us vs. Robots ~unday March 10 8:00 Finals \8'; BASKETBALL LEAGUE I SigChiB 4-0 PhlSig 3-l Rejects 3-1 Lodge 2-2 ZBT 2-2 420 ... 1-3 AE PI 1-3 LEAGUEH Fiji A 4-0 Ewok's 4-0 Conglomeration 3-1 Fiji B 3-l Southern Cornf 2-2 Milwaukee's 0-4 Sad but true 0-4 Al's Crew 0-4 B LEAGUE PLAYOFFS: Tuesday March 5 7:00 Participantsto 8:00 be determined Sunday March I 0 7:00 Finals MEN'S BROOM BALL . LEAGUE I Lodge . Sig Phi Psi U PhiDelt AE PI Isles Phi Sig 5-0 3-1-t 3-2 2-2-1 2-2-1 2-3 0-4-1 PF PA 277 190 295 229 125 114 100 127 66 124 167 220 PF PA 273 208 313 265 238 214 286 298 248 285 229 248 249 280 272 310 PF PA 215 149 154 140 104 112 140 145 155 164 81 117 138 147 PF P.A 190 104 241 175 188 178 95 114 148 168 124 189 148 168 103 137 GFGA 23 05 15 13 11 05 04 05 05 07 02 08 04 13 LEAGUEH GF GA SigChi 5-0 34 02 Rugby 4-1 08 04 TDChi 3-2 04 07 Lambs 2-3 05 13 Whales 1-4 03 14 ZST 0-5 Ol 15 LEAGUE HI GF GA Cool Guys 4-1 14 03 Fiji 4-l 07 03 SigChi B 4-1 H 07 Southern Comf. 4-1 08 02 Blue&Gold l-4. 02 {:)6 ,J' . Sliding Dutch. 1-4 01 14 Glazer 1-4 0:1 04 BROOMBALLPLAYOFFS - .. Monday Feb. 26 ll :45 Southern Cemfort '\(s: Sig Chi (l . . . 12:15 Fiji vs. Cool Guys Wednesday Feb. 28 I 0:45 Lodge vs. Rugby II :45 Sig Chi vs. Sig Phi Thursday Feb 29 9:30 Lodge/Rugby vs. Fiji/CooiGuy,s· .. 10:30 SigChi/SigPhi vs. SigChiB/SQlGO'· MEN'S ICE HOCKEY LEAGUE I G' GA Soutem Com f. 5-0 37 <E Old Time I Iockey 3-1-1 21 II SigChi 3-1-1 33 16 Game Hens 2-3 71 14 No Good 1-4 14 44 Psi U 0-5 14 53 LEAGUE II CF GA Molson Ice 5-0 58 19 Golden Anniv. 2-3 31 ~ Phi Dell 2-3 25 33 TDChi 1-4 19 41 HOCKEY PLAYOFFS Tuesday Feb. 27 11: 15 Old Time Hockey vs. Molson Ice 12: 15 Southern Comfort vs. Gold Anniv. Monday March 4 · 10:45 Finals CO.RECVOLLEYI3ALL LEAGUE I l(X)S 4-l SigChi 4-1 JoMamma 4-1 ·. BMNF 3-2 Wliite:Feet 2-3 VOLLEYBALLPLA YOFFS Thursday Feb 29 7:00 SigChi vsBMNF 8:00 JOMamma'svs. 1068 'l CDC Updates •••• ' . On Camaq;s ltccruitiqe Reminder.; • T~~~eh For Amtri'e4i • Application Deadline March 1 to be sent dmctly. Interviews Thlli'Sdl!y. April IS. ~ Cot~ru~ut Mut#Dl Liff/Mtur ftlatiuJJ Will interview une;~~ students for Career Agent. positions. Resume DeatiJlne. Frid~y, Mjll'tblS • lnfcrnsbjp Qpportunities: . • J.P. MorgP.JI Jar.msllip. Resume and cov!!r letcer ~ijne .. today •. Th~aY.. Fell. 29. . ' · • U.S. Gloldgictd Coop deadline March 1. Resume and cover ~Iter requested. · Interest~ in wQr~ing at tbe CJ?C? . . · · :l'bc CDC is currently accepting resume$,& co~r l~t~(S. fQr l'lelt\ acade!DiC. y.elf. Training is provided & a team jltmo.. spb!:rc: is~plWized. ·Send yourresume and cover Jette~ to · · Joanne Tobies$en no later than Mardi 31st. , · .. •! •.• • ,- Carter Dtvelqpment Center· Third Floor. Old C:hapel . ' '• * - 0 * 8~~ , . '..,J ·'· \A\'2. tr~ .. street ' -'0\1-23&4: ltb> il\A\bo.n!J at. zn \AI-\ sot . lO'Yo A\sCoun\, 'VIi~ Union 1-f>. · r··----~-~-~-----------~, . 1 VMC,1861 N. FEDERAL HlfY. -.sulTE 216 . Hor,LYifOOD., FLORIDA 33 20 I Do· You ·want VISA & Mastercarrd credit Cards? .._ ~ t~~~~nl•~ btoe.t the ..... , recoJnl&ed Uld IICCltpted credit c:arda tn the WOfld;..vtia8 ar,ct MutcrCanl• cftdlt airds. .. ·an your ·name ... EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN CREDIT or IIAVE BEEN 1\JRNED DOWN BEFORE! : YJ~S! lwanlVISA•IMASTERCAIUJ8Cn-dU : I QardSapproved lanmedlalely, 100~\ GUARANTEE bl I I VISA& ·and MMkrCint• lhe e~ll euds you · I de•rw and meet for- ID-BOOKS-DEPARTM£NT 1 NAME ~tutt~~~RTNNMENr- • ----~--------------------- EMIRlEte\' CASII...,\fiCKETS-n£STAURAHJS- I ·ADDRESS .. IIQI:£LS-MOfEtS-G\s-cAR RENT~ RIPAJRS.-MD TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RA11NOI t CrtY STA\fE -ZIP ---·-- . ·' ... --~. . . No tarn diMisi ~,,c~ lo credit chectsl -~=~:,,: :Jr lo securttJ depost t t c.:- ta0t4 SEND TilE COUPON TODAY YouR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAlliNG! : PHONE ----- S.S.• ------- 1 SIGNA1URE -----------· -·· I I I I 1«11&: t.t.utn<:enl It • ftJt'lllltl'l'll INrk*'-lft Ill ~rtCinl lnlrml!lkolill lir Vha Is • ,....,ltnd li'iclr-ltl al 111SA USA. tr.-. ••.t \'1AA lnlr 111111•••••1 Clii!II:U.I:t;IUUJI4•JillN: ll.e.J:D1 I --------~-------~---~-~--

Page 18 February 29, 1996 '(fl:~t <liourorbiensis \A'• BASKETBALL LEAGUE I Lambs 5-0 Robots 4-1 Blue & Gold 4-1 D Phi 3-2 Phi Delt 2-3 Beef l-4 LEAGUE II Crown Us 5-0 Sig Chi A 4-1 TD Chi 3-2 Beta Boys 3-2 Sam Devious 2-3 Davidson 2-3 Bomb Squad 1-4 To Be Deter. 0-5 A LEAGlJE PLAYOFFS: Sundax March 3 7:00 Sig Chi A vs. Lambs 8:00 Crown Us vs. Robots Sunda:Y March 10 8:00 Finals ''B\ BASKETBALL LEAGUE I SigChi B 4-0 PhiSig 3-1 Rejects 3-1 Lodge 2-2 ZBT 2-2 420 l-3 AE PI 1-3 LEAGUE II Fiji A 4-0 Ewok's 4-0 Conglomeration 3-1 FijiB 3-1 Southern Comf 2-2 Milwaukee·s 0-4 Sad hut true 0-4 AJ's Crew 0-4 B LEAGUE PLAYOFFS: Tuesda~ March 5 7:00 Participants to 8:00 be determined Sunda:Y March 10 7:00 Finals MEN'S BROOMBALL LEAGUE I Lodge 5-0 Sig Phi 3-1-1 Psi U 3-2 Phi Delt 2-2-1 AE PI 2-2-1 Isles 2-3 Phi Sig 0-4-1 GF GA PF PA LEAGUE lJ SigChi 5-0 4-1 3-2 2-3 l-4 0-5 34 02 277 190 295 229 125 I 14 100 127 66 124 167 220 PF PA 273 208 313 265 238 214 286 298 248 285 229 248 249 280 272 310 PF PA 215 149 154 140 104 112 140 145 155 164 81 117 138 147 PF PA 190 104 241 175 188 178 95 114 148 168 124 189 148 168 103 137 GFGA 23 05 15 13 II 05 04 05 05 07 02 08 04 13 Rugby TDChi Lambs Whales ZBT LEAGUE HI Cool Guys 4-1 Fiji 4-1 SigChi B 4-l Southern Comf. 4-1 Blue & Gold 1-4 Sliding Dutch. 1-4 Glazer I -4 BROOMBALLPLA YOFFS Monday Feb. 26 08 04 04 07 05 13 03 14 01 15 OF GA 14 03 07 03 II 07 08 02 02 06 01 14 m 04 I I :45 Southern Comfort vs. Sig Chi B 12:15 Fiji vs. Cool Guys Wednesday Feb. 28 I 0:45 Lodge vs. Rugby I I :45 Sig Chi vs. Sig Phi Thursday Feb 29 9:30 Lodge/Rugby vs. Fiji/Coo!Guys 1 0:30 Sig Chi/Sig Phi vs. Sig Chi B/SOKO MEN'SICEHOCKEY LEAGUE I Soutem Com f. S.O < )Jd Time !Iockey II SigChi 3-1-1 Game Hens 2-3 No Good l-4 Psi U 0-5 14 LEAGUE II Molson Icc 5-0 Golden Anniv. 2-3 Phi Dclt 2-3 TDChi 1-4 HOCKEYPLA YOFFS Tuesday Feb. 27 CF 37 3-1-1 33 '}] 14 53 (F 58 31 2S 19 GA 00 21 16 14 44 GA 19 '}J.S 33 41 I I: 15 Old Time Hockey vs. Molson Ice 12:15 Southern Comfort vs. GoldAnniv. Monday March 4 l 0:45 Finals CORECVOLLI.:.l'BALL LEAGUE I ]{))8 4-l SigChi 4-l JoMamma 4-1 BMNF 3-2 White Feet 2-3 VOLLEYBALLPLA YOFFS Thursday Feb 29 7:00 SigChi vsBMNF 8:00 JO Mamma's vs. 1068 Now )'11'1 .. n t .. ~ e.. er the lnltet lt:COinleed and at'Clepted eredll cards In the waricLVIMft a lid MukrCanl• cmllt mrds.-·ln your name: EVEN lfY()U ARE NEW IN CREDIT or IIAVE BEEN 1\JRNED IX>WN IIEfllREI V1SAf' and MasterCud8 U~e credit cuds you deaerc and need fDf\-ID-BOOKs-DErMtTMENT ~--... STORES-1lJITION-EtfTERTAIM.t ENT- EMEN;EI'CY CASU- TICK&TS-RESTA.UM.NTS- IIQI\EI.S-MOTELS-01\5-CA.R RENTALS- REPAmS-mD TO BlAlD YOUR CREDIT RAnNOI ~~- llo turn downs I _, ,,f.,c., Ro credit c:hecksl -:..:~ 1 ~~~:,.~1. llo security deposttl Go$ fl.fill£ SEND TilE COUPDI TODAY YouR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAlliNG! rm CDC Updates ••• On Campus Requiting Reminders; • TIGCh For America· Application Deadline Marcil I to be sent directly. 'Interviews Thursday, April 18. • Con11eticu1 Mumal LifeiMIISs Mutus/ will interview interested srudents for Career Agent positions. Resume Deadline Friday, March 15 • ln&ernsbjp Opportunities; • J.P. Morgan IMUrmhip. Resume and cover letter deadline today. Thursday, Feb. 29. • V.S. Geologiclll Coop deadline March l. Resume and cover letter requested. Interested in working at the CDC? The CDC iS currently accepting resumes & cover letters for next academic year. Training is provided & a team atmo- sphere is emphasized. Send your resume and cover letter to Joanne Tobiessen no later than Mardi 31st. Carur ooe!opment Center· Third Flnor. Old Chilpel * * area!fl~ ~~ucl~· \4 '2. ~Cl~ street ?A1-2\?a4 ~ Sports A\sD il\A\bo.n~ at 2,, \.a.t-~ st. iOcro cl\scoun\, '11\\\.. \Miol\ u:>. r V:c7 i861- N-:-r'ioB~~\L -H;;.:s'UiT! 2i&- ~ 1 ' HOJ,LYHOODr FLORIDA -23020 I : YJ~S! lwantVISA8/MASTERCARJ>8CrnJil : I Cardaapproved lnunedlalc:ly. 100~,. GUARANTEED I I I I I I NAME --------------------------------- : ADDRESS I CITY STATE -ZIP--- .. : PI-lONE ----- S.S.• --------- 1 SIGNA1URE --------- 1 I I I t«JTt:: f.lulnO!d Is • ~ltlftl ,,.....,.,. r1 t.t..lnOonl lnlrmBI..,••i I•• VIsa Ill a \1(11kml il..trnetll Gl VISA liSA. lnr. ltwf \'1:->A lttlriiAII\'\' t';t11911:tl J:I•I;IU:IOJ•JIJli-J:I!;l•t U ~--~~--~--------~--------

~' ' 1 1' I (; i J ·t Spo~ 'illqe a!n:ntnrbieusis • February 29, 1996 • Page 19 Union Track and Field Has Excellent by Mike Ledipg StojJWriter There were a number of in- credible p~rformances at the meet with every runner .peak- ing at the correct time to help their respective teams score points. The men finish~d' 6th out of 15 teams ora their way to scoring 43 points 7 defeating such teams as RPI( for the first time sin.ce 1 've be~n h~re), Ham·ilton, Brockport S tat-e, Plattsburg State, St. La wren c_e, Hamilton, etc. The men took 9 performers, . . sh: of which scored a:H the points, whereas teams such as RPI. had about fif- teen runners and five field performers. The women placed tweUlh out of thirteen teams with their six performers. Despite their finish, they had a lot of personal records recorded. Jessica Goveia scored the only points for the women by placing fourth in the 1000 meters in a time of 3:14.80, breaking her personal record that she had set the night be- fore in the semifinals. Jessica has performed well all season and has blossomed under the tu- telage of Liza Morse, as have all the other lady middle distance runners. rn the 3000 meters Amelia Audette once again shat- tered her personal record by run- ning a time of II :.1 1.69. Amelia has had a tremendous season breaking her personal reconl in each meet. The women's 4x800 .~))owing at States--------.:;_ _______ _ meter relay team of Molly Hood, Sara Mcintosh, A~nel ia Audette, and Jessica Goveia ran ·a sea- sonbesttimeofl0:32.36. Julie .. •, . ~ ~ .. Firman and Michelle Woodard competed in the throwing events and did quite well. Congratula- tions to an the women for quali- fying for states. On. the men's side_Dave Riggi got all the running started off with his prelims in the 55 meter dash on Friday. Dave ran well enough to make. itt~ the finals on Saturday. Once again in the showdown between Gilmore of RPI and Riggi, Dave felt just short running a time of 6.62 seconds al,ld placing second in the State. Dave still\has a chance to make it to Nationals, so good luck as you continue to train hard. Also running prelims on Friday night were Mike Leding in the 400 meters, Russ Stram in the 500 meters, and Pete Flynn and Nick Conway in the 800 meters. Riggi also ran the 200 prelims Friday and recorded a personal record with a time of :23.3.9. Leding ran a personal record of :51.94 seconds to qualify for the semifinals, but ended up false starting in_ the -semis and losing a chance at the finals. Nick Conway recorded a personal record ln the semis Following Russ, the dynamic of the.800 meters in a time of duo ofFiyrinand Conway raced I :57.87 on his way to making it around the track in the 800 to to the finals. AU three of the finish third and fifth respec- other runners made it to their tively in times of 1:59.68 and finals on Saturday. Also per- 2:00;65. Riggi came back quick formi!lg on Friday were Jay in the 200 meters running a time Goldberg in the 5000 meters and of :23.41 in the finals to place Jermel Royal in the shot put. third. Riggi has been a main- Jay recorded a personal record stay performer on the track for in a time of 1'6:35.02. Scoring three yeats now, a man among points.on Friday night was the boys on the Union Track and Distance Medley Relay team of F.ield team, but it seems the rest Pete Flynn, Mike Leding, Nick of us are starting to step it up a ~ little on the track and starting to a n d performing near his level where S c t h we can start to lake out some Rnfin of these teams. In the 1 S 00 p e,t e meters Jay Goldberg ran a time tmhf of4:l9.96on his way to record- off to ing_ a personal record. All the Lafng individual events were done at i n this point, and it came time for first . the relays. The 4x800 meter a n .d relay team had been talking all Union week how they could win states p r o - in this event. Leding ran lead cwW off, Rudin in second, Conway t 0 in third, .and. Flynn at anchor. r u n The team knew they were go- al one ing to have to deal with Ithaca, to the so Leding followed Hacha's lead finish line, but due to a slow olf man around the track and seed time Union was placed in handed off in a close second. the slow heat and had to run Rudinproceededtojockeywith against the clock. lthaca.ended Ithaca's second leg as it became up running a 10:38.08 in the fast a two team race. Rudin ended heat tb Union's I 0:40.99 in the up handing off in first a place slow heat, thus Union finished which Comway held, but all the second in the .state. I think the time not being able to shake the result would have been a little persistent runners of Ithaca. different if we had been ill Once Flynn got the baton he Ithaca's heat. but they found that played his usual mind game of out in the 4x800. So Union taking the lead and falling be- came away from Friday night hind. Flynn hadn't lost to with eight points and the poten- Ithaca's anchor leg all year and tial to .score a. whole lot more he wasn't about to let this be on Saturday. Russ Stram got the first time. Pete walked the scoring started by placing Ithaca's anchor man Cushing sixth in the 500 with a personal down at the end to beat him to record time of 1:08.79. Russ the line in a time of8:04.41 to had a flame ignited under him Ithaca's 8:04.78. It was an on- at St. Lawrence, and he's been believable race and represents running with heart ever since. Union's first title of state champs in an event on the track in years. Conway, Flynn, and Leding had twenty minutes to recover for the 4x400 meter re- lay where they were to be joined by Stram. As in the DMR, this team ended up in the slow heat and had to run to place up. Conway led off what became a war, and quite possibly the most fun race of the year. Leding got the baton and wrestled his way between two runners with 50 meters left on his leg to get Stram the baton in the middle of the pack. Stram proceeded to take over the lead and hand otT to a tired Flynn who ended up running his fastest leg of the year, but fell short in the end to Hamilton's anchor leg Who hap- pened to be the fifth fastest 4-00 runner in the state. Flynn's late charge was enough to help the team place up to fifth and help Union defeat RPl, not to men- tion also marking a personal record time of3:32.81. Pete's charge left us :0.05 seconds be- hind Hamilton and capped off a great day for Union track. · It was pretty spectacular to see Union plncc in every rclny us- ing only five guys whereas most ' other teams had at the last ten · guys combining to do the re- lays, and usua11y more. In the end it became one of the best athletic events I've taken part in, and it sure did prove that we may not have as many top athletes to capture the state title, but no one can say they have more heart and guts than Union Track and Field. Thanks to Aldo Nardiello and Larry Cottrell fortuming in the cards and letting us decide who ran where so we could get the most out of our points. Hon- estly thanks to the coaches for all their support, and we look forward to an even better out- door season. •Women'sHQckey on Four Game Win Streak ~;:·~ -*~'._ ,.\' .. • . • - ·''·.Jori'Fader;. · ···· Sports Jiditor After· a rough stait, the\Uni.on Women Skating Dutchmen have finally jelled, and are·nowinthe midst of a four game winning streak. Led by the guidance of coaches Tim Benson, Mark Reid, and Chip Mulkins, the womenis hockey team now finds itself hovering around a .500 record and is playing with great confidence. Tri .. captains Tracy Marquis; Sarah Wilbur, and Kfisteen Hoffman aU agree that theit recent success can be attributed to the hard work and dedication exhibited by the en- tire team. Their 'llmst· t~cent .victory. ~arne'~ ~t . ~he ~xpense of . Skid:mo·te':· ·ln~·a:n overllrite · thriller, Union pulled out the 2-l victory behind. Kriste;en Hoffman;s t~o goal effort. She received assists fro.m both.· Wilbur afid fresh- manLeandra CoJiier. Throughout the. en- tire game, solid goaltending was dis- played by Lauren Locke. Befote the Skidmore victory, they posted another overtime win against Holy Cross. Sarah Moss' first goal of the game came on a beautiful breakaway. The game the net. This was her second remained tied 1-l until Moss un... of the game, and it clinched a leashed a shotfrom out neartbe 2-l o:vertime.victory. Union has other wins against the likes of Troy Acad- emy, and Sacred Heart, while de- feating Skidmore twice. Spe- cial recog- nition must go out to the other goaltender, blue line, which ricocheted off Jodi Mousseau, who has also ofthe post before dropping into been stellar in net. This team has reason to have . high hopes for next seas~n. too. : Although the loss of seniors ' Heather Rock and Deena Alter will be hard to replace, theteam is very young and has a lot of potential for next season. This season has not concluded, how- ever, and the team would love to see their win streak extended. According to Hoffman, \We have done a great job pulling together, and. our goal now is to end the season with a win.\ They have one game remaining and it is at Troy Academy on March 3rd. Let's give the team our support and hope they can end the season on a high note.

:l j1 j Sports 'm~e Olonrorbicnsis • February 29, 1996 • Page 19 Union Track and Field Has Excellent Showing at States---- by Mike Leding Staff Writer TheFe were a n11mber of in- credible performances at the meet with every runner peak- ing at the correct time to help their respective teams score points. The men f1nish~d 6th out of I 5 teams on their way to scoring 43 points, defeating such teams as RPI( for the first time since I've bee11 here), Hamilton, Brockport State, Plattsburg State, St. Lawrence, Hamilton, etc. The men took 9 performers, six of which scored aU the points, whereas teams such as RPI had about fif- teen runners and five field performers. The women placed twelflh out of thirteen teams with their six performers. Despite their finish., they had a lot of personal records recorded. Jessica Goveia scored the only points for the women by placing fourth ifl the 1000 meters in a time ()f 3:14.80, breaking her personal record that she had set tile night be~ fore in the semifinals. Jessica has performed wei 1 all season and has blossomed under the tu- telage of Liza Morse, as have all the other lady middle distance runners. In the 3()00 meters Amelia Audette once again shat- tered her personal ~rd by run- ning a time of I 1 :II .69. Amelia has had a tremendous season breaking her personal record in each meet. The women's4x800 meter relay team of Molly Hood, Sara Mcintosh, Amelia Audette, and Jessica Goveia ran a sea- sort best time of 10:32.36. Julie Firman and Micf;telle Woodard competed in the throwing events and did quite well. Congratula- tions to all the women for quali- fying for states. On the men's side Dave Riggi got all the running started off with his prelims in the 55 meter dash on Friday. Dave ran well enough to make it to the finals on Saturday. Once again in the showdown between Gilmore of RPI and Riggi, Dave felt just short running a time of 6.62 seconds and placing second in the state. Dave still has a chance to make it to Nationals, so good I uck as you continue to train hard. Also running prelims on Friday night were Mike Leding in the 400 meters, Russ Stram in the 500 meters, and Pete Flynn and Nick Conway in the 800 meters. Riggi also ran the 200 prelims Friday and recorded a personal record with a time of :23.39. Leding ran a personal record of :51.94 seconds to qualify for the semifinals, but ended up false starting in the semis and losing a chance at the finals. Nick Conway recorded a personal record in the semis of the 800 meters in a time of 1:57.87 on his way to making it to the finals. All three of the other runners made it to their finals on Saturday. Also per- forming on Friday were Jay Goldberg in the 5000 meters and Jermel Royal in the shot put. Jay recorded a personal record in a time of 16:35.02. Scoring points on Friday night was the Distance Medley Relay team of Pete Flynn, Mike Leding, Nick GJw}: an d Seth ROOin Pete lmhl off to ~ i n first an d Union pro- arooo t 0 r u n alone to the finish line. but due to a slow seed time Union was placed in the slow heat and had to run against the clock. Ithaca ended up running a 10:38.08 in the fast heat to Union's I 0:40.99 in the slow heat, thus Union finished second in the state. I think the result would have been a little different if we had been in Ithaca's heat, but they found that out in the 4x800. So Union came away from Friday night with eight points and the poten- tial to score a whole lot more on Saturday. Russ Stram got the scoring started by placing sixth in the 500 with a personal record time of I :08.79. Russ had a name ignited under him at St. Lawrence, and he's been running with heart ever since. Following Russ, the dynamic duo of Flynn and Conway raced around the track in the 800 to fini,sh third and fifth respec- tively in tirnes of 1 :59.68 and 2:00.65, Riggi carne back quick in the 200 meters running a time of :23.41 in the finals to place third. Riggi has been a main- stay performer on the track for three years now, a man among boys on the Union Track ana Field team, but it seems the rest of 1:1s are startiAg to step it up a little on the track and starting to perforrn,ing near his level where we can start to take out some of these teams. In the 1500 meters Jay Goldberg ran a time of 4:19.96 on his way to record- ing a personal record. All the individual events were done at this point, and it came time for the relays. The 4x800 meter relay team had been talking all week how they could win states in this event. Leding ran lead off, Rudin in second, Conway in third, and Flynn at anchor. The team knew they were go- ing to have to deal with Ithaca, so Leding followed ltacha's lead oiT man around the track and handed off in a close second. Rudin proceeded to jockey with Ithaca's second leg as it became a two team race. Rudin ended up handing off in first a place which Comway held, but all the time not being able to shake the persistent runners of Ithaca. Once Flynn got the baton he played his usual mind game of taking the lead and falling be- hind. Flynn hadn't lost to Ithaca's anchor leg all year and he wasn't about to let this be the first time. Pete walked Ithaca's anchor man Cushing down at the end to beat him to the line in a time of 8:04.41 to Ithaca's 8:04.78. It was an un- believable race and represents Union's first title of state champs in an event on the track in years. Conway, Flynn, and Leding had twenty minutes to recover for the 4x400 meter re- lay where they were to be joined by Stram. As in the DMR, this team ended up in the slow heat and had to run to place up. Conway led offwhat became a war, and quite possibly the most fun race of the year. Leding got the baton and wrestled his way between two runners with 50 meters left on his leg to get Stram the baton in the middle of the pack. Stram proceeded to take over the lead and hand otT to a tired Flynn who ended up running his fastest leg of the year, but fell short in the end to Hamilton's anchor leg who hap- pened to be the fifth fastest 400 runner in the state. Flynn's late charge was enough to help the team place up to fifth and help Union defeat RPI, not to men- tion also marking a personal record time of3:32.81. Pete's charge left us :0.05 seconds be- hind Hamilton and capped off a great day for Union track. It was pretty spectacular to see Union place in every relay us- ing only five guys whereas most other teams had at the last ten guys combining to do the re- lays, and usually more. In the end it became one of the best athletic events I've taken part in, and it sure did prove that we may not have as many top athletes to capture the state title, but no one can say they llave more heart and guts than Union Track and Field. Thanks to Aldo Nardiello and Larry Cottrell for turning in the cards and letting us decide who ran where so we could get the most out of our points. Hon- estly thanks to the coaches for all tlleir support, and we look forward to an even better out- door season. Women's Hockey on Four Game Win Streak Jon Fader Sports Ediior After a rough start, the Union Women Skating Dutchmen have finally jelled, and are now in the midst of a four game winning streak. Led by the _guidance of coaches Tim Ber~son, Mark Reid, and Chip Mulkins, the women's hockey team now finds itself hovering around a .500 record and is playing with great confidence. 'Tri-captains Tracy Marquis, Sarah Wilbur, and Kristeen Hoffnaan all agree that their recent success can be attributed to the hard work and dedication exhibite-d by the en- tire team. Their most recent victory came at the expense of Skidmore. In an overtime thriller, Union pulled out the 2-1 victory behind Kristeen Hoffman's two goal effort. She received assists from both Wilbur and fresh- man Leandra CoiJier. Throughout the en- tire game, solid goal tending was dis- played by Lauren Locke. Before the Skidmore victory, they posted another overtime win against Holy Cross. Sarah Moss' first goal of the game came on a beautiful breakaway. The game remained tied 1-1 until Moss un- leashed a shot from out near the the net. This was her second of the game, and it clinched a 2-1 overtime victory. Union has other wins against the likes of Troy Acad- emy, and Sacred Heart, while de- feating Skidmore twice. Spe- cial recog- nition must go out to the other goaltender, blue line, which ricocheted off Jodi Mousseau, who has also of the post before dropping into been stellar in net. This team has reason to have high hopes for next season, too. Although the loss of seniors Heather Rock and Deena Alter will be hard to replace, the team is very young and has a lot of potential for next season. This season has not concluded, how- ever, and the team would love to see their win streak extended. According to Hoffman, \We have done a great job pulling together, and our goal now is to end the season with a win.\ They have one game remaining and it is at Troy Academy on March 3rd. Let's give the team our support and hope they can end the season on a high note. ...

c February 29, 1996 PAGE20 Men's Swimming Captures State Title; Women Finish Fourth by Aaron Sicotte Staff Writer The men's team continued their domination of the state championships, capturing their second straighttitle. Union was followed by Hamilton, Hartwick, Ithaca, and R.P.I. to round out the top five teams. The men's team was lead by Mike Humphreys and Brian Field, who were Swimmer of the Meet, and Diver.ofthe Meet, respectively. Humphreys won the 50 Free with a pool and school record, and won both the 100 Backand200Backwith pool records. Fieldwon both the I and 3 meter diving. competi- tion, setting both a pool and school record in both events. Kevin Makarowski was the other Union swimmer to: sweep first place finishes. Makarowski set a pool and school record with his victory in the 100 Fly and went on to win the 200 IM and the 200 Fly. Freshman Jeff Haerle had an impressive day in his first trip to States. He won both the 1 00 Free and the 200 Free (with a pool .record), and finished fourth in the 500 Free. Other outstanding p.erfor- mances by freshmen included second place finishes in the 200 Thanks for the Memories As the two graduating seniors from the Union hockey team, we ould like to take this opportunity to express our sincere gratitude · o the Onion students, faculty, and community as a whole, for your remendous support of the Union Hockey program over the past our years Some of our fondest memories consist of Union's first EC A C home victory over Vemwnt during our freshman year, the ten game unbeaten streak and first ECAC playoff games against RPI, beating Harvard and RPI at Achilles for the first time, and of course playing off against Maine and New Hampshire earlier this year. Each . fthese memories is made even more special because of the tremel1- ous atmosphere in Achilles created by the people in the stands. he support for Union Hockey has continued to grow over the last five years, to a point where Achilles Rink is considered. one of the premier rinks in college hockey for fan involvement. As a program, we have workect very hard to establish ourselves in the Di·vision 1 college ranks, but the Union fans have also worked veryhard, which has not gone unnoticed by the players and coaches. The excitement created by our fans provides us with that extra rush of adrenaline, while undoubtedly making our opponents more than a little uneasy. It is always nice to hear friends on other teams in the ECAC talking abnut hm\' intimidating it is to play at Achilles and what great fans we have. We also appreciate the tremendous support we have also re- cci vcd on the road at other EC AC colleges. Once again, we would I ih: tu thank ever) one, especially the boys in Section Q, for their support of us individually, as well as the entire program. We hope that the excitement will continue for these extremely important games this weekend, as well as into the future. Scott Boyd '96 Reid Simoliton '96 Fly and the 400 IM by Dave Searles. Clark Smyth also fin- ished 5th in the 200 Free and Matt Mauriello finished 4th in the 1650 Free and 8th in the 400 IM. In their last state meet three seniors also had strong show- ings. Chris Riley finished Jrd in the l oe Free and 4th in the 209 · Free. Matt Woodrow raced both the 100 Breast and 200 Breast finishing 6th and 7th respec- tively. In the 1650 Free, John Fitzgerald ended with 8th. place. Sophomore. Mark Anderson also had an impressive meet, with 2nd place finishes in the I 00 Breast and 200 Breast, and an 8th in the 200 I.M. In winning the state champi- onships, many of the men also qualifiedforNationals.lhe team heading to NatiOril}lS will be Humphreys, Makarowski~ Hoerle, .Searles, Field, Riley, Smyth, and Anderson. Five re- lays also qualified for Nationals with their first place finishes. The 200 and 400 Medley and the 400 Free all set school and pool records, and the . 200 and 800 Free also set pool records in the process of taking first place finishes. At the women's State Cham- . pionship Union swam: to a 4th place finish; despite having a smaller team than most of the other 14 competing teams. Union trailed Hamilton, Hartwick, and Ithaca in the final standings. The women were led by senior Jen Allaire, who received an AU-Aca- demic A wanl. Allaire also fin- ished first in both the 200 and 400 I.M. She has. not lost ei- ther race in a State meet for .. the past three years. In the 200 I.M. Allaire was followed by Meg McCarthy with a 3rd place finish, Flo Chretien at 9th (with a personal best), and Alyson McKee at 14th. After Allaire in the 400 I.M. came Cece Buchannan at 3rd, Chretien at 4th, and McKee at 6th.. Both Buchannan and senior Jackie Crane placed in the top 8 in the 500 Free.ln the I 00 Back Sarah.Spaulding finished 4th and was followed by Kelly Monahan at 11th with a personal best time, Jonathan Meade swam to 8th and :Eri Hayashi an 11th in the SOFree. Union bad a strong showing in the 1650 with 4 women finishing in the top twenty, led by Buchannon at 7th. Sophomore Kelly Jamieson had an impressive day with an 8th place finish in the 100 Fly, and a 16th in the 200 Free. Meg McCarthy also swam well fin- ishing 2nd in the lOO Breast, while qualifying for Nationals. Allaire also qualified for Nation- als in the 200 and 400 I.M. and the 200 Back. Joining her in q1;1alitying for the 200 Back was Spaulding, and, in that race, Monahan also swam well fin- ishing 7tlt Two freshmen divers also had st:Fc.mg meets. In their firsLState Championships, Shontell\1eachem finished 11th i:n both the 1 and 3 meter, and Carrie Madson finished 17th in the Lmete.r. Union also fared well witb the relays. The 200 Free Relay finish 4th as did the 400 Medley, and the 400 Free swam to 3rd· place. Union .has once again proved its ability in swimming during the State Championships. In a month, numy of them will be competing against the best in the country 'Wilen they head to N a- tionals, 'Wilere they will again display their superior abilities.

