Page 4 - Fea1ures: Urtion the Great 'Page 12 Sports: Football Comeback Win Page20 ~---····--~---------~· .•. ~-· ~--·-·-··-······· • l The Student NeJJJspaper of Union College Since 1877 Union Catches Ship Fever 'by Aileen Quigl(}y Editor4n-Cilief Ott Monday, September 29th, at 7:30 PM in the Nott Memorial, award-winning author of Ship Fe· ver and 1974 graduate of Union College Andrea Barrett invited her audience on a joui\l!.ey to the icy waters of the of our planet's arctic ocean poles around the late 19th century. In the setting of this un- charted territory, she described the voyages of two very different ships with a common goal but different means of getting there. Barrett tied the events ofthe.se two excursions to the experience of writing, which she feels is \a constant process of exploration.'' October, it became to them ''a prize that could not be snatched from [us].\ Thus, they had even- tually reached their destination though it was not how they origi- nally expected to do so. Barrett noted that some works of literature are similarly engendered. The au- thor begins confidently, certain of what to expect from the writing process. However, the tables get turned, and soon he finds himself in the midst of an entirely differ- ent route. Eventually, the final product is completed bearing re- semblance to the original idea, though what it took to finish it was entirely unexpected. The first vessel she spoke of had ventured into unknown water in hopes of finding new land in July of 1872. A crew of 25 men and their captains staffed the ship; dressed in attire \based on the gen- erous wages\ they expected to re- ceive once they discovered the riches of the North Pole. Setting Nationally-renowned author-Andrea IJiflfre:J/ before she addresses her alma mater. (Aileen f}uigley/TC) Barrett's own literary experi- ences are closer to the story of the second crew. They embarked on their journey on August 24, I 874, with the knowledge from the first ship's experience that the icy wa- ter moved in a northwest counter- clockwise direction. They were more prepared to deal with the condi.tions that lie ahead and used . sail, they \expected to sail smoothly to the North Pole.\ They hadn't anticipated getting caught in the ice and drift, traveling pain- fully slow, towards colder and colder weather. They were \no longer explorers, but passengers on tile:: itee.\ The noise and destruc- cious'ly until they finally sported land. in August of 1873. They stepped off the ship at around 84 degrees latitude and walked over the ice toward a land that \no one had ever set foot on before.\ Wlleri they finally set foot on land in late tion a.:roumd them wreaked havoc on the tension level on board as they \''waited for their home to . burst .int() pieces.\ Braving tem- pent.tlllr~s; of -50 degrees Fahren- heit andi colder, they held on ten a- . . Continued on Page 4 Sororities Come Together For ''The.Naked Truth'' Guster Rocks Union by Anjali Balasingham Staff Writer On Monday, September 29, four of Union's six sororities united to present a series of satirical skits to an audience of over 150 students. \The Naked Truth\ was orga- nized by the Pan-Hellenic Council and involved sis- ters from the Sigma Delta Tau, Gamma Phi Beta, Delta Gamma, and Delta Delta Delta houses. It was. held at Chet' s at 9 PM. The presen- tation was the brainchild of......,......,.. .................. ........, ................ .......,;;;;; Some skits were dialogues, Vimi le some involved new lyrics set to the mtJsiic ()f fa- miliar songs. All performances. JDO•ked fun at various aspects of life at Uniolll iln.c:J elic- ited major responses from the a1.1dience. In one skit, two sisters dressed up li:ke SDT sisters, wearing black outfits and bll~t<.ck wigs. The:y joked abo 111 goetting . lipo:stJc1icn and . breast! emlarge- ment:s,. and about !Juying a \'che~p pair of blaclt pants from Bia11ana.\ In a.Ilot:her per- formiln ce, Tri- · Delts :addressed more stereo- types ~nd con- vers.e:d about hoo-kii1g: up · witll a !\UY and Pan-Hellenic --------------------------- then his best Council President Kirstin Kohn. \I thought that the sororities needed more inner har- mony,\ she said. As Delta Gamma sister Shawn McQuade explained, the sisters \put on skifs to explain the stereotypes about so- rorities that are going around campus.\ Gamma Phi sister Katie Patrizio added that another objective w.as to bring all the sisters together. \It's not often that sororities have a chance to come together like this,\ she said. friend. \I mean, is that like really:bitd'? ... It was just a hookup, so it didn't :l.i.ilc.e really matter .. That's what college is f()r!' 1 Sisters also made humorous references t~ each fra- ternity, and to Union'men in gene:rill. Set to the music of the Verve Pipe's '\The fresh- men,\ one group sang about the r11al~ one- · night stand syndrome. \Can't lle: field re- sponsible ... he was just ahocke:f>'Jllayer.\ Pan-Hellenic delegate Emily.Sordoer was continued O•IIJJage 4 · by Eugene Schultz Staff Writer On Friday, September 25, Union College's own Memorial Fieldhouse was transformed into a miniature version of Madison Square Garden. People from all over the Capital Area had come to see two out- standing bands, Guster and Fool's Progress, who put on a relatively in- expensive s h 0 w . Union's Concert Committee from their first album \Parachute their second album \Goldfly and unreleased SOr1gS. They also played an interesting cover of Rage Against The Machine. Throughout the set, Guster commented on everything from the net that hangs from the ceiling of the fieldhouse to crack co- caine. After a quick 15- minute stage strike, Fool's Progress came out and rocked for an hour and a half. and the Edge 103.5 spon- sored the concert. Guster last Friday night (D(l.1!e Meguerdichian/TC) PI ay- ing mostly songs off their new al- bum, they quickly had The night began with The Edge giving away free M&M shirts and packages of pea- nut butter M&Ms. The doors opened at 7:00 PM, and the first band, Guster, started at eight. Due to Guster arriving late, the show did not begin until 8~30. Guster played for a .spirited hour and 15 minutes. The set included a mix of songs everyone who had taken a seat during the breakback on their feet. David Polizzi, who won a ticket from WRUC said, \ I was re- ally impressed with the keyboard player. He was very talented, being able to play all those other instruments.\ Other students also liked the Pink Floyd cover that the band played. Overall the night was a success for ev- eryone involved. ,INSIDE: Campus News ....................... ............ 2 National News/Science&Techno/ogy .. 6 Arts & Entertainment ............................. 14 News ................................................. 3 Op-ed ................................................. B Features ....... · ............................... , .... 10 Sports ..................................................... 20 '·

News: Features: Sports: AIDS Walk Success Page .t Union the Great Page 12 Football Comeback \\'in Page 20 -·-. -------- ''~--~---~- ---------- ----- --- ---- -.--. ~··--;..~...;.;._- __ ... ,-~---. -· .-·. -:--· ~ lll ,·.l';.t: ,. )- ~ ; - . . . The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Union Catches Ship Fever by Ailee11 Quigley Etlitor-in-Cit iej On Monday, September 29th, at 7:30 PM in the Nott Memorial, award-winning author of Ship Fe- ver and 1974 graduate of Union College Andrea Barrett invited her audience on a journey to the icy waters ofthe of our planet's arctic ocean poles around the late 19th century. In the setting of this un- charted territory, she described the voyages of two very different ships with a common goal but different means of getting there. Barrett tied the events of these two excursions to the experience of writing, which she feels is \a constant process of exploration.\ October, it became to them .. a prize that could not he snatched from [us].\ Thus, they had C\ en- t ually reac hcd their destin at ion though it was not how they origi- nally expected to do so. Barrett noted that some works of literature are similarly engendered. The au- thor begins confidently, certain of what to expect from the writing process. However, the tabks g.et turned, and soon he finds himself in the midst of an entirely differ- ent route. Eventually, the final product is completed bearing re- semblance to the original idea. thuugh what it took to fini:-.h it \\a, entird: unexpected. The first vessel she spoke of had ventured into unknown water in hopes of finding new land in July of 1872. A crew of 25 men and their captains staffed the ship; dressed in attire \based on the gen- erous wages\ they expected tore- ceive once they discovered the riches of the North Pole. Setting Natior1aJ/y-renowned author Am/rea Barrett before she addresses lzer alma mater. (Aileen Quigley/TC) Barrett's own literary expt:ri- erl\:I.\S are doser to tht: 'it{lr) ufth~· second crew. They em harked on their journey on August ~·L IS7-L v. ith the knowledge from the first ship's experience that the icy wa- ter moved in a northwest counter- clockwise direction. They were more prepared to deal with the conditions that lie ahead and tJsed sail, they \'expected to sail smoothly t(} the North Pole.\ They hadn't anticip!lted getting caught in the ice all d drift, traveling pain- fully slovv, towards colder and colder weatlu r. They were ••no longer ex p£ ore-rs, but passengers on the ice.\ The noise and d.:~truc­ tion around them wreaked havoc on the tension level on board as they \waited for their home to burst into pieces.\ Braving tem- peratures of -50 degrees Fahren- heit and colder, they held on tena- ciously until they finally spotted land in August of 1873. They stepped off the ship at around 84 degrees latitude and walked over the ice toward a land that ''no one hacf ever set foot on before.\ When they finally set foot on land in late Continued on Page 4 Sororities Com,e Together For ''The Naked Truth'' by Anjali Balasingham Staff Writer On Monday, September 29, four of Union's six sororities united to present a series of satirical skits to an audience of over 150 students. \The Naked Truth\ was orga- nized by the Pan-Hellenic Council and involved sis- ters from the Sigma Delta Tau, Gamma Phi Beta, Delta Gamma, and Delta Delta Delta houses. It was held at Chet's at 9 PM. The presen- tation was the Some skits were dialogues, while some inv()lved new lyrics set to the music offa- mi li;ar songs. All performances po*ed fun at -various aspects of life at Union and elic- ited major responses from the audience. In one sl<it, two sisters dressed up like SOT sis.te-rs, wearing black outfits and black wigs. ~--\\:! They joked about getting liposuction and breast en Iarge- ments, and about buying a \cheap pair of black pants from Banana.\ In another per- formance, Tri- Delts addressed more stereo- types and con- versed about hooking up brainchild of '-------------==-= .__...__.......,.., with a guy and Pan-Hellenic -------------------- then his best Council President Kirstin Kohn. \I thought that the sororities needed more inner har- mony,\ she said. As Delta Gamma sister Shawn McQuade explained, the sisters \put on skits to explain the stereotypes about so- rorities that are going around campus.\ Gamma Phi sister Katie Patrizio added that another objective was to bring all the sisters together. ••tf s not often that sororities have a chance to come together like this,\ she said. frioendl. ••t mean, is that like really bad? ... It was jmt a hookup, so it didn't like really matter. That's what college is for!'\ Sisters als:o made humorous references to each fra- ternity, and to Union men in general. Set to thern:usic of the Verve Pipe's \The Fresh- men ,\ one group sang about the male one- niglut stand syndrome. \Can't be held re- sp'm ib le ... he was just a hockey player.\ Fall-Hellenic delegate Emily Snyder was continued on page 4 Guster Rocks Union by Eugene Sclt ultz Staff Writer On Friday, September 25, Union College's own Memorial Fieldhouse was transformed into a miniature version of Madison Square Garden. People from all over the Capital Area had come to see two out- standing bands, Guster and Fo()l's Progress, who put on a relatively in- expensive s h 0 w ' Union's Concert Committee from their first album ''Parachute,\ their second album .. Goldfly,\ and unreleased songs. They also played an interesting cover of Rage Against The Machine. Throughout the set, Guster commented on everything from the net that hangs from the ceiling of the fieldhouse to crack co- came. After a quick 15- minute stage strike, Fool's Progress came out and rocked for an hour and a half. PI a y- and the Edge 103.5 spon- sored the concert. Guster last Friday night (Dave Meg~teraichian/TC) ing mostly songs off their new al- bum. the~ quickly had The night began with The Edge giving away tree M&M shirts and packages of pea- nut butter M&Ms. The doors opened at 7:00 PM, and the first band, Guster, started at eight. Due to Guster atTiving late, the show did not begin until &:30. Guster played for a spirited hour and 15 minutes. The set inc! uded a mix of songs everyone who had taken a seat during the break back on their feet. David Poliui, who won a ticket from WRUC said, .. I was n:- ally impressed with the ke) board player. He was very talented, being able to pla) all those other instruments.\ Other students also liked the Pink Floyd cover that the band played. Overall the night was a success for C\- eryone involved. . 'l.NSJDI$: Campus Nnl'S .... .............................. 2 National Ntnvs!Science& Tech12ol ogv .. 6 Arts & EnteJ·tammelzt . SprJrls . .... I.J :n ' ' ' News ........... _ ............................ ..... 3 Op-ed. ............................................... 8 Features ................................. .. ... 10

Fall Teams Raise Their Level of Play ~­ ·~:--~ 4).' ·•··· .. . .. '7 . Women's Soccer Moves to 5-l With Ten-Goal Victory Field Hockey Seniors Defeat St. Lawrence by Geoff Sullivan By Stefanie Speanburg Sport.\i Etfitor Staff Writer Coming off four impressive performances to be- The Dutchwomen began the week with a mi- g, in their seas<m. the Union College Women's nor setback--an away loss on grass to Williams, Soccer team was full of spirit and emotion as they 3-1. Tara Blagys led the defense, and Jackie Eatz headed into play last Saturday at Vassar. Having played excellent offense. yet to surrender any goals. the team was brought The Dutchwomen played hard until the end. back to reality as Vassar would not sit back in awe Sophomore Michelle Tardiff made her season of the undefeated Dutch women. Unable to handle debut with 19 saves. \Williams was quicker to the strong second-half attack by Vassar. the team's the ball and played with a powerful offense,\ perfect record came to an end. Vassar handed the recounted sophomore Hillary London. Dutch women their first loss. of the season. 3-2. After suffering the disappointing loss midweek Union opened the scoring in the first half, when to Williams, the Dutchwomen bounced back to freshman Missy Matusewiczcontinued her strong conquer St. Lawrence 2-1 on Saturday. This was start to the season by putting the ball past the the field hockey team's first defeat of their rival Vassar goalkeeper. Vassar tied the score by half- in four seasons. time. but they once again f()und themselves trail- The win preserved the team's consistent .500 ing early in the second half. as Matusewicz netted record. Union dominated the game offensively her second goal of the game. As the game pro- with 14 penalty corners. The first goal of the gressed, Union began showing signs of fatigue, game, scored by Jackie Eatz, sparked the rna- allowing Vassar to get back into the game. Mid- f--~..:.....----'-'-----'--\\-'-'\-'-'-~\'-\-\--'-'-------~ mt:ntum that pt:r:.isted throughout the game for Women's soccer player Missy Matusewkz hdpedfurther the success of her teanL (Upper Left way through the second half. Vassar tied the score - Lauie Kirsclmer!TC) Amy Paolone and the field hockey team turned away St. Lawrence the Dutchwomen. at two and continued to put <>ffensive pressure on for the first time in the seniors' careers. (Jessica Paige/TC) Denton Randolph was Northeast As the game continued, Union took advantage the young Dutch women as the game headed for a Player oft he Week in Union football with his four sacks. (Sports Information) of St. Lawrence's strategy. The Dutch women ~------~-----------~---~--------------~ close. Late in the second half. Vassar got the break J::'OOI·b•· .Q' ll DlQrl'S ''Bns_ -t· 1Jafl11' united, playing as a cohesive unit: their passing that they needed and put the ball past sophomore .1. l j . . . . . rll 'J. . .:;.... . n ~ r:J and communication on the field was impressive, goalkeeper Shannon Powers. with what turned out even to those irregular spectators. St. Lawrence to he the winning goal of the game. \There was Audino Has Seen To Erase was awarded a penalty stroke after a daring but panic all over the field,\ said seniortri-captain Julie wise maneuver by sweeper Tara Blagys. It was Barton. \The Vassar offense was very quick. and J.·· \'- l)o· ... ,·n· . . t D' . e' r.,.c·l•t.. with this that the Saints scored their one and only our defense was not used to it. We simply did not /' T I . . --J '\ ._. goal. Sue Joyal answered the attempt to tie the play our game.\ Head Coach Brian Speck agreed score with a deflection off a cross from fresh- by Frank Rossi with his captain. \As a team, we definitely did man Hillary Olk. Tanya Capparello, Hillary Olk, Editor-ih~Ciiief not play as well as we have in our previous games. Jackie Eatz, and Darcy Tuczynski played intense We simply did not get the job done.\ This season, the Union College Fighting Dutchmen should be nominated attack. Carrie Heroth made her first appearance Hoping to get back on the winning track, the Academy Award. The Dutchmen put forth their most dramatic cQmeback in as forward and with Bianca Prumo contributed Outchwomen hosted Utica on Monday and were . last Saturday; as Union forced five Hobart Statesmen turnovers in the sec- to the offensive thrust in the second half. De- definitely ready for the challenge. While the de- ··half to QVercome a 17-0 deficit and win by a final score of28-17. The win fense was a solid unit, impervious to the Saints' fense rebounded from their shaky effort against .. oved the Dutchmen record to 3-0 and brought Hobart down to 2-1. attack. Vassar, the offense exploded with ten goals en The game took a structure much like the St. :Lawrence game had (two weeks The transition game kept the Dutchwomen route to a 10-0 victory. learHerJ. as the Dutchmen played .inconsistently in the first half. Their opening alive through to the finale of the women's great Once again, freshman Missy Matusewicz con- •·/1_ ..... , ... ended with an interception thtown by junior quarterback Torn McKeown, performance. Coach Bevelander commented,\ t inucd her potent attack by netting two goals in Hobart was unable to convert. The remainder ofthe first quatter turned into The team really wanted it, you could see it as the victory. With her recent goal scoring surge of field position battle; as Hobart. effectiWly .pinned Union againstth¢ir own goat they played. They made their presence known six goals in three games, the freshman was named from the first minute--you could feel it.\ (lCAA player oft he week f<lr her efforts. Sopho- After 19 minutes of play, the teams remained scoreless. Howe-ver;. Hobart The Dutchwomen suffered a non-league de- mure Samantha Ryall also had an outstanding Jre1tunTedaBenBlackwoodHne-drivepunttoUnion's 19~yardline. TheDotch .. feat by Middlebury on Tuesday. Gina Lupino game. adding three goals of her own. \It was great . en .defense was able to prevent a Statesmentowchdown, but p.lace·.kkker Felix: scored Union's first goal off a penalty corner. to see more people contnbute m the scoring de- · was able .to blasHhrough a 2l~yard field goa!J, giving Hobarta 3-0 :lead. Sue Joyal scored in the second half and played partment,\ said Coach Speck. \We need more On the ensuing kickoff,. lJnion again struggled with field positi<>n and: was an impressive game. The Dutchwomen play people to step up and score, which was definitely unable to advance.· .their own .line. Union freshman Slekess home against Springfield this Friday, and the Continued 011 page /6 team expects a comeback in full force.

P~tge i • pctober 2, 1997 • 'ill~e (!lp•u::aroiensb:~ . _ · - · Campus News Campus Security Info UNION COLLEGE CAMPt.ISSAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY 'INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2! THROUGH SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 28,1997 DATE/TIME LOCATION M(i)NDA Y, SEPTEMBER 22, 1997: 2:00 !J>M South College 1'0:25PM Alumni Gym TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 23, I9n: I :56 AM Reamer Center area 4:01 A..M Webster House 3:30PM South College 9:00AM Alexander Field I 1:45AM Potter South 2:15PM Ellis Hospital WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER24, 1997: 5:06 PM Jackson's Garden area 6:06PM West College area 6:29PM Child Care Center !0:35PM Wade Lupe THU.RSDA Y, SEPTEMBER 25, 1997: 8:03AM Raymond South · 8:42AM Edwards Bouse 8:52AM Reamer Center 9:21AM Davidson THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1997: 4:45PM Lenox Road 6:10PM Achilles Lot 11:29 J>M Nott St. area FRIJ}A Y, SEPTEMBER 26, 1997: 6:45AM Becker Hall 8:45 1\.M Reamer Center 8:48AM Reamer Center 2: ISPI\1 Feigenbaum Hall 5:25PM Davidson South 5:57PM Olin Construction II :40!>lvl Fox North SA TURJ)A Y, SEPTEMBER 27, 1997: 2:05AM Wells House 2:40AM Davidson North SUNDA:\', SEPTEMBER 28, 1997: 3:34 Al'\1 Fox House 9:00AM Psi Upsilon 10:27 J>M Raymond South INCIDENT I*R.OPERT\' MISSlNG: Area rug missing from entry foyer. VANDALISM: Basement courtesy phone damaged SUBSTANCE ABlJSE: Student became ill due to alcohol consumption. Paramedics notified, student transported to Ellis Hospital. Conduct Charges filed. l\RESPASS: Visitor attempting to gain access to building. Identified and advised o.ff campus. PRO PERT\' MISSING: Sunglasses missing from student's room. Possibly stolen when .room was left unlocked. PROPERTYDAMAGE: Fencing fabric on new fence and backstop damaged ... possibly caused hy vand!ilism/climbing on fencing. SAFETY HAZARD: Unsafe toaster in kitchen ... being used without bottom cover. Kitchen counter scorched. Toaster removed. TliEFT-OF·F CAMPUS: Student was at Ellis emergency room for treatment. Money was stolen from student's wallet-theft discovered after student had returned to campus. Ellis Securi(¥ contacted. TRESP' ASS: Group of juveniles in garden area acting •in a disorderly mahher. Identified and advised ·off campus. TRESP ASSN ANDAUSM: Visitor al1owing pit bull to chew up tree branches. Suspect previously advised off campus. Suspect fled campus upon approach. SPD and Animal Control notified. VANDALISM/ATTEMPTED ENTRY: Entry storm door forced open. Entry not gained through main door. NOISE COMPLAINT: Non student resident complained of unnecessary noise coming from student's apartment. VANDALISM: Partition in bathroo!J1.-damaged. '\' AN.DALISM: Thermostat damaged. · VANDALISM: 4th tloor courtesy telephone damaged. Ll FE SAFETY VIOLATION: Building fire alarm caused by tampering with room heat detector. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. SECURITY HAZARD: Assist student with concern regarding possible unauthorized entry. Locksmith to provide locking mechanism on access door. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Taillight on staff member's car broken. Cause undetermined. DISORDERLY CONDUCT-OFF CAMPLJS: SPD que~>tioned student escort regarding person who exited the escort van and created a disturbance at a city residence. P'R:OPERT\' MISSING: Flower pot stolen from east side of Admissions building. Second occurrence. lJNA.lJTHORIZED ACCESS: Tampering with staff member's computeru4th floor office. SlJSPICIOUS PERSON: Subject talking to himself making persons in Dutch Hollow uncomfortable. Visitor with no stated purpose to be on campus. Identified and escorted off campus. SliSPICIOUS PERSON: Student was followed out of cashier's office by suspicious acting person. Student went into Admissions and called for assistance. Subject located and arrested for trespass. SPD contacted. PROFERT¥ DAMAGE: Water leaking in Jrd floor bathroom. Possibly caused by vandalism to toilet. PROPERTY MISSING: Padlock for pedestrian gate missing. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Visitor became ill due to alcohol consumption. Hosts returned and took visitor under care. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Smoke detector controlling vent hatch was damaged. Cause undetermined. Possibly struck by object. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student became ill due to alcohol consumption. Paramedics responded. Roommate took student under care. Conduct Charges filed. HARASSMENT/DJSORDERL Y CONDUCT: Students harassed verbally and physically by group of students. VANDALISM: Fire exit sign in basement pulled off walt Live electric wires exposed. On call electrician responded to mitigate hazard. PllOPERTY DAMAGE: Lock latch on entry door not functioning-cause undetennined. Repair made. This Week's Campus Announcements An ad..:hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenability of Hugh Jenkins, As- sistant Professor of English. The committee's members are Peter Heinegg (English), Victoria Martinez (Modem Languages), R. Alan Bowman (GMI) and Alan Taylor (Math- ematics), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to oft~t written or-oral. testimony concerning .Professor Jenkins' teaching, scholarship or college seniice .should contact Professor Taylor (x6197, taylora@gar.union.edu) or any other member of the · committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenability of Brenda Johnson, Assistant Professor of Mathematics. The committee'smernbers are Julius Barbanel (Math- ematics?, Dani.el Bums {Psychology), Bonney MacDonald {English) and J. Richard Shanebrook (Mechanical Engineering), Chair. Any member of the campus community wish.ingto offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Johnson's teaching, schol- arship or college service should .contact Professor Shanebrook (x6266, shanebrr@gar.union.edu) or any other member of the committee. · An ad'- hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenability of Ann Anderson, . Assistant Professor ofMechai1ical Engineering. The committee's .members are Richard' Wilk ~Mechanical Engineering), John Spinelli (EE/CS), Kurt Hollocher (Geology) and :Sharon Gmelch (Anthropology), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning .Professor Anderson's teaching, scholarship ov college service should contact Professor Gmelch (x6715, gmelchs@gar.union.edu) or any other member of the committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenability ofBarban Danowski, Assistant Professor of Biology. The committee's members are Barbara Boyer(Biology), David Hemmendinger (EE/CS), Sigrid Kellenter (Modem Languages) and Kenneth DeBono (Psychology), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer . written or oral testimony concerning Professor Danowski's teaching, scholarship or col- lege service should contact Professor OeBono {x6542,, debonok@gar.union.edu) or any other member of the committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenability of James McWhirter, Assistant Professor of Physics. The committee's members are Kenneth Schick (Phys- . ics), 'Ekram Hassib (EE/CS), Jan Ludwig {Philosophy) and Peter Tobiessen (Biology), • Chair. Any member ofthe campus community wishing to offer written or oral testimony. concerning Professor McWhirter's teaching, scholarship or college service should con- tact Professor Tobiessen (x6028, tobiessp@gar.union.edu) or any other member of the committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenability of Mary Carroll, As- sistant Professor of Chemistry. The committee's members are Charles Scaife (Chemis- try), John Boyer (Biology), Frank Milillo (Mechanical Engineering) and Ruth Stevenson (English), Chair. Aay member ofthe campus community wishing to offer written or oral · testimony,conceming ProfessorCarroll'steaching, scholarship or college service should . contact Professor Stevenson (x6206, stevensr@gar.union.edu) or any other member of the committee. · A:n ad-hqJ; ·committee has been formed to consider the tenability of Scott Scullion, As- . sistdntProfessor ofClassics. The conunittee's members are Mark Toher (Classics), Wil- liamGaroia(Modem Languages), John Garver (Geology) and James Underwood (Politi- cal Science~, Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Scullion's teaching, scholarship or college service shouid contact Professor Underwood (x6225, underwoj@gar.union.edu) or any other member of the committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenability of Anthony Rubonis, Assistant Professor of Psychology. The committee's members are Suzanne Benack (Psy- chology), Seyfollah Maleki (Physics), Mario Rivera (Mechanical Engineering) and Donald Amdld{GMI), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer written or oral testimony conceming Professor Rubonis' teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Amold ( x6302) or any other member of the cortunittee. I.E.F. & Faculty Research Deadlines· The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories ·- student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative proj'ects\·is October 23, 1997. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's Office (S I 00, S&E BuildiJ;Jg) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them. to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faeulty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (S lOO). The Faculty Development Committee is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Sorum's Office (S 100, S&E). The deadline for submission of proposals is October i3, 1997. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Sorum. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation should also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposals must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Faculty Develop- ment Committee. ~tu4eot ezlff,.il's Council c2\onooneement SIGMA CHI and CHI PSI are undergoing an evaluation by the Student Affairs Council for ren!!,wal of their housing privileges. Any member oftheCollege community who would , like to submit comments about either house is encouraged to do so. The SAC is primarily concerned with these two questions: Does this group use their house to improve the cultural~ intellectual, and social life ofthe campus?; and. ls the collective lifestyle of the house conducive to academic achievement? The SAC asks that comments are written and that the author attach his/her name: Please send comments to SAC, c/o Prof. Adrian, Chair, Chemistry Department or SAC, c/o Dean of Students Office. ' ' ( ] 1 \ ] ~ \ ~ l ( ( l I I ( Cl ' t r i t il v F p g 0 tl I· tl tc g VI 0 tl c c ti tl t1 1' v c d fi tc:

.; .. Campus News · · , - WJp-1. QionnH.Dicusis • Octo. her 2, 1997 • Page 3 Tbe Society And Tri-Delta Unite_For A Common Cause by l(irn Rohback St4ff Writer On Sunday, September 28 1 h at 1:00PM, a group of walkers from around the C~pital District gath- ered at Washin·gtonPark in Albany for a common cause. AIDS Walk '97 was an overwhelming success. Representing ihe Union College community were the residents of Raymond North. The Coffee House and 'Delta Delta Delta walked under the banner of the Damien Center of Troy with over $3 00 in sponsors .. Upon their arrival, the walkers were greeted by an aerobics in- structorwho got the group wanned up for the SK walk. Aftet every- one was· .stretched out, a number of speakers got up on the stage m'lder a banner of the red AIDS ribbon to thank everyone for their participation and generosity. One of the speakers was a gentleman afflicted with the disease. From his wheelchair, he .spoke about how the funds for AIDS research are ninning dry and yet the patients are increasing. Especially in t~e Capi- tal Distri.ct, AIDS has taken the l:Jack seatto a number of other, less controversial diseases and has not received the amount of time and . . . ~ money that such an epidemic de- at the start of the walk. Some ran, and some ro1Ier-bladed through the scenic park. Matthew Nermoe '99 complained of the park's \Lake delightful sport beverage from Stewarts.\ Vohmteers who .coor- dinated· the walk stQod at various points on the route cheering on the Union Students wlto gave up their time to raise money for AIDS research (Kim Rohback!TC) serves. Benita Zahn, the represen- tative fromChannell3 andalong- time AIDS tesearchsupporter, told the crowd, \Until we a:llcomeout with a plastic· coating, AIDS is eve:ryone's problem.\ Finally, at 1:30PM, the walkers setout under the rainbow balloons Lake,\ \\.small lake in the middle of the park, but everyone else seemed to enjoy the scenery and the lovely weather. As the walkers marched along the streets of downtown Albany, they were supplied with free wa- ter and, as one walker put it, \a walkers. As the Union teamwalkedon, a few of the walkers got bored and began to squirt each other with the water bottles. By the end of the walk, everyone was drenched. At the end of the walk, Domino's Pizza provided the walkers with 'free pizza and soda. One of the walkers, Gina LaSorsa '00, com- mented, \I'm really glad we did this. It feels nice to take time out and do something nice for other people.\ Everyone was in high spirits as the group headed for their cars to return to Union when a tall man dresseo in women's clothing walked by. A little girl no older than eight walked by with a group ofher friends. She screamed at the man, \Put on some pants you f\ * * ing faggot!\ This statement was a reflection of our society's deep-seated hatred for unconventional differences. Among a diverse group ofpeople of different sexual preferences, races, and genders, an ugly weed of prejudice managed to sprout through. Despite this unhappy incident, the walk was a success. Marius Ca:lin '00 said, \I was confronted face to face with the disease when the man in the wheelchair got up to speak. I truly felt what this dis- ease is doing to people through his words and the pain in his voice. I am really glad I did this.\ Amnesty Campaign to ·Control Nu~Clear Waste • . . . j Death and Dying In Schenectady by Kim Rohback Staff Writer Amnesty International is start- ing this year with .its first letter- writing campa(gn. Sandy Rodriguez ('00) brpught the cam- paign to the attention ofthe group. Rodriguez had been one of the many students at the recent Indigo Girls 1997 Honor the Earth Concert. At the show, the problem of · toxic waste, with which out government is now facec4 was brought to :the attention of the audience. Right now there is legislation before Congress that would permit canisters of lethal radioac- tive waste to be transported across the country, only to·be dumped on the land ofthe Western Shoshone Nation at Yucca Mountain, Ne- vada. Accord.ing to the Indigo Girls these \canisters would be deposited on a cement slab on a field in front of this sacred moun- tain.\ Th.e proposed bill, called the Nuclear Policy Act of 1997, would allow the mass transport of high level nuclear waste across 43 :lliiiJIIII': states. More than 50 million Americans live within ~ mile of the projected routes. The canis- ters, which are yet to be designed, would contain the radiologica'l equivalent of 200 Hiroshima bQmbs. While the utility companTes t~at generated the waste are lobbyiJ;]g their Congressmen for this bill, they are simultaneously w,<;>rkip[ on a backup plan. The lice~sing process for a nuclear waste dump on the land of the Skull Vallpy Goshutes in Utah is already und~{- way. . .: .:'; Union College students c.~n make a difference. Right.n~}V we can make industry and the govern- ment stop and listen. Th~re are lll nuclear reactors in the United by Lisa Pertoso States. Nearly all of them have Staff Writer reachedfullcapacity. \Indigenous thinking requires reconsideration Although on a sabbatical in of the impact of our decisions on_ Denmark, Professor Robert Wells, the seventh generation to come. lf · ofthe Union College History De- this thinking were central to pub- partment, is hardly relaxing. He lie policy, the debate over . is in the process of finishing abook · nuclear waste storage would that focuses on the culture-of death focus on how to isolate the and dying in · deadly radioactive material society, par- . that does exist, so that it does ticularly em- not come in contact with the ph as i z i n g · environmentforhundredsof the micro- thousands of years-rather cosm of a than on quick-fix industry- community sponsored proposals that al- dose to low more waste to accumu- h o m e , late.\ S c h e n - Musicians United For ectady, NY. Safe Energy (MUSE) has done its W e I I s job in awaking the public in this c h o s e atrocity. Now, as informed citi- Schenectady zens, it is our responsibility to because of share our views with the people we its unique history, evolving from elect to _represent us. Amnesty In- a farming village to a major indus- ternational will be providing pa- trial center. per, pre-drafted letters, and post- After studying public records age, for those who have the time and personal diaries and observ- to sign their name for this worthy ing cemeteries of the area, he dis- cause. The cam:paign will be con- covered an intriguing change in the ducteq in the college center atrium, customs of death over time. October l-3. As society has beco_me modem- Es~e, R.efc & Discovert .. - r------~-~--, :25% OFF: : Efttire Purditase : Sate Items & Spedll Ordas Excluded I With cbls C!Oipon • !Jpf:es U/1197 I L. .... -----'li'IJ-------.1 JU$tA.·sfiott wata. ••. Union St. <to; ...... ., · · ·Tne. OtJert Door Boolftore~ Gift G4fCeay 128 Jay, St. • SeheneCtady. NY 12305 • (518) 346-2719 ized, Wells learned that death has adjusted from being a public, com- munity-based affair to a much more privatized event, in which most do not die in their homes, but instead are mourned in funeral homes only by close family mem- bers. Professor Wells commented in a previous interview, \Some say modern Americans have a death-deny- ing culture. I don't think that's quite right. We have a vi- carious rela- tionship with death.\ Wells was referring to constant bombardment ofTV, movies, and the news, which expose the public to death daily. The publishing date is not yet determined. However, Professor Wells' book is certain to provide insights into how the hu- man spirit copes with the ultimate mystery of death. , ... :~~eJ~:; itUpartant. ~~~·i€?Jn(i!$rdJ1 lue~ting ·' .. ·· .. ~-~tght-(tflltttt$d~ay} a.t • ;;;t:n~~~ , 2 . . . , .. allJltJt your ~~~ ..... ; :'.:,_ ... _.., '.

Page 4 •. Oct'ober 2, 1997 • Wlp· <.!L~lnturbitnsi£1 . · Campus Ne\VS ' . ' . . ' 9/18197 Meeting Officer Reports VP Finance- continuing to meet with club treasurers VP Administration• First Committee on Committees meeting :Assigqec) Representa- tive :Approved Ultimate club :Student Forum Club expo a success Social- A Night on the Town• moved to .October 19th VP Academics- Possible Math Requirements change VP Multicultural Affairs- Chairman of M.A. G. :Prof. 'Patrick Trustees- Freshman elections to be held October 17th I.F.C- National Alcohol Awareness. Week (Sept 19-26) Promotion - Elections :Treasurer- Greg Auerbach Pan Bell- September 29th- Sorority Talent Show at 9pm in Chets -Change in Winter Rush format T.H.C- Meetings Tuesdays at 8pm, rotating throughout theme houses · · · Class Reports Sr. Class- Fund-raiser ldeas:CCM h0ckey hat sale :Better than Pez T -shirts Jr. Class- October 17th- Campus wide party based in the Skellar with a tent neat · Silliman w/ Pilmpkin.selling and painting contest for charity Sop h. Class- BBQ Sept.26th 5-7 before concert to welcome back campus Committee Reports S.A.C- Housing reports due October 15th -October 22 meeting with Sigma Chi -October 29 meeting with Chi Psi - Possible Revamping of Escort service to more bus like system Forum Consultants- continuing to reorganize New Business R.Strosburg: Review of off-campus internet access · A.Markowski:AAC- More concern voiced on the move to change to a 4•1-4 calendar -Concern voiced over speed of the change fO alter class meeting times during the fall C .Brantigan:Social alternative discussed with various religious chaplains of campus Zandman-motion- Acceptance of Ultimate Club constitution >motion passed Winn-vote of sentiment- increase awareness of Student Forum 9/25197 Meeting Officer reports VP Finance -Holding Ace. At $20,789.82 -Cocoa House :given a $1,170 budget :Finance rep- F.Rossi - Ulitmate Club: Finance rep- Long motion (Delorenzo)- approval of Cocoa house budget ->passed - Senior class Joan request . motion (Delorenzo}- loan to Senior of$500 for CCM Hockey hat sale, as of I 0-25 ->passed - Possible raise in student activity fee, to be proportional with inflation motion (Delorenzo)- Emergency Funds for clubs :To be no more than 5% of budget - Is a temporary budget line for this year - No reallocating without Finance rep. Approval ->passed P Campus life -Feb. 6 &7 - Winterfest type event VP Academic~ Linda Stanhope, AAC chair, to be at next Student Forum meeting - Possible change in math requirements: to facilitate Freshman engineers: Math l 0 would be repeatable, wlfitst grade to average into cumulative GPA VP Multiculturai-M.A.G met for first time, next meeting on Oct.91h at 11 :30am - concerned with involvment on campus : possible IFC I PanHel representa tion - more involvm1;1nt of majority and minority groups Tr11•ct,.,,o -Possible move to subsidize faculty housing nearer to Union campus IFC -Brown Cup apps. To go .out during Homecoming halftime - Possible mixer to be held before Gala -Greek newsletter needs writers/photographers/artists IPHtnH· .. , -Dual house events to occur over fall term to pomote unity T.H.C -Meetings Monday at 7 on rotating basis Class Reports Sr. Class -CCM hat sale -Possible mixer for Seniors on Oct.29'h Jr. Class -Pumpkins ordered for Oct.l7~' Soph.Ciass -Continuing anti-violence campaign Committee reports SAC -Increase I ighting around campus Walking escorts Shuttle system Freshman parking crackdown Multicultural affairs concerns . Discussion about possible Res-Life liason to SAC Forum Consulta11ts -Great Campout -Possible orientation for incoming Freshman Forum .members Naked Truth continued from page 1 in charge oforganizing the event. \We knew we wanted to do some· thing that would inc<Jrporate all the houses,\ she said. •'Many people don't know what Pan-Hell is about, and we wanted to show that we could unite as one body.\ As were most, Snyderwaspleased with the . project's outcome. \J thought it · was amazing ... Tb.e most ~m]~or- tant part was seeing all the girls practice together, gitls who never knew each other before~ l'he.y worked together so well .... That's what Ws all about, being able to work together.'; The participating sisters had favorable thingst() say aho.ut the experience, especially · with regards to its coopertJ,1:iive ·as- ~ pect. \I wanted the opportt;mjty to Andrea Barrett continuedfr.om,page 1 them totheitadvantage. Their ship was designed t0 :float on the ice instead of get cmshed. In spite of -aU this extra pretJaration, their . journey led them n()t to the· North · Pole again, but to a completely d .. d I ,.. . new, un Iscovere · ~catwn. BarTett parallels her writing to-this voyage, stating\ ''lean never know ahead of tithe where a project will take me.\ She is well awa,re, fro111 her highly acc.Iaimed backgro.und as an author, what it .takes to:cr~ate a work togetherwith girls from other hollses ... It's importar;tt th~t people reali~e that sororities aren't all separate, that we're in. it together, and that w.e can have a lot of fun together/' said Delta Gamma sis- ter H.~ather CampbelL Kohn h~r­ self .was more than pleased, say- iil:g the ~vent \went way beyond all our expectati ans. '' ;pie.ce ofliterature .. Ho\'o/ever each. finalproduct is a un.iqlle entity that she may not have expected but that has been recognized by several critics as \passionate brilliant, original, imaginative, .. .-and el- egant.\ Professor Berk Addresse.s AEPi by Daniel Pesikoff Contributing Writer _Last Thursday evening, AEPi hosted Professor Stephen Betk to speak at one of their campus \Professor . Nights.\ As part of their pledge to the campus com- munity, AEPi has begun a se- ries of nights, set aside on a bi-weekly basis~ for Union • professors to speak about is- sues concerning the students. Speaking to the religious. and secular Jew, Professor Berk stressed the idea of-reflect- ing upon oneself during the cel- ebratioo ofthe New Year. He~ex.:. ... plained that one does not have to be a religious Jew in order to find · I, value in the holidays. With the holidays come wishes for ah~ppy and sweet new year, b.ut nne sho.uld not forget that we have all . strayed ·from the path of right~<ius­ ness, and that we must atone for our wrongdoing. . . Following the address, thenight open~(J:up to allow Professor Berk- to answer questions ranging from the Biblical interpretation of the afterlife to people finding codes inthe Biblical text \I 'thought Profe,ssor Berk's. speech was both informative ·ami well-spoken. ; He ex- plained to m€ many of the Jewish traditions from a new asp'ect,\ said Simon Kelier ('00). · The relaxed euvironment c~:eated a.differecnt environ- ment for the students. \It feit like being at ·horne with my family and learning abou~ · .my Jewish heritag~,\ commented,. Adam. Levithan ('98), AEPi wel-· comes the entire campus to each of their events. Watch for posters fortlieir upcoming fu11ctions. · · DEPARTMENT :OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES AND THE BIOLOGY CLUB * *** **** ***** ***** ***·**** * *'**** ****** * *** SEMINAR· ''The Stability of Nerve Term:inals at the Frog ·Neuromuscular Junctio.n'' ..... , ! DR. ELIZABETH. ·CONNOR BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT UNIVERSITY OI?. MASSACIJUSET'fS, AMHERST· TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1991 12:15 PM BAILEY BALL, ROOM 312 Refreshments wm be provided at 12:00 I

Advertisements : .. . · · . · . Wlp.~ <.!Ioucorhicusis • OCtober 2;·1997- • ·P-age ·5 ' ' ' ' . PERFECT FOB PARENTS' WJ'IEKJ!IND! PROCTOf:r'S CHARGE BY PHONE: GROUP DISCOUNTS: JUJ:JO IGLESIAS Saturday, October 4 Bpm Audiences the world over have thrilled to hi.s sultry voice. An extraordinary performer who transcends the boundaries of language, Julio moves effortlessly from heart-rending ballads to scorching dance numbers, and makes every song his own. Experience the power and emotion live as Julio comes to Proctor's and to you. UNDERWRITIEN BY: Roen1er Wallens &Mineaux!lS' C{>umdlor'- .H law MEOlA SPONSOF!· Tickets On Sale Now! 432 State Street, Schenectady, NY 12305 (518] 346•6204 (518) 382•5392 Tlc;KEI/ff;:#s;n:;:~, (518)476·1000 Order tickets via the net at: http:/ ;www.proctors.org COSTA RIC A Study Paradise this Sprillg The Organization for Tropical Studies in partnership with Duke University offers a field-oriented semester abroad program in tropical ecology and latin American culture. Students earn 16 credit · hours in biology, environmental science, and Spanish language & culture. Credits may be transferred from Duke. • 11ancl ... on biology • cultural immersion • field trips • independent projects • remote field sit•s • r•search • •xotie wildlife For brochure and application materials, contact Organization for Tropical Studies, Duke University Box 90633, Durham NC 27708-0633 Tel: (919) 684-577 4; E-mail: <ne~o~acpub.cluke.edu> http://www .ots.dukc.edu Application c:loCJdline for 1998 Spring semester h>· October 15, 1997. Do You Miss Someone? Get Closer, Send Flowers! Frank Gallo & Son Florist Can Send Your Flowers Across Campus or Across Country. ORDER ONLINE 31eleDom: , http://www.frankgallo.com CALL US TODAY!! 1-800-442-5563 Frank Gallo & Son Florist • 856 Crane Street, Schenectady • 1790 Altamont Avenue, Rotterdam • 123 Saratoga Road, Socha Plaza, Scotia • 19 Clifton Country Road, Village Plaza, Clifton Park (Opening Soon) Website.Services By Digicom 888428-SWEB \\

-·National News • . * ~ .. .. • • • ' · · ·11e. * ·Chelsea Cht'bnid e ~ • ----- • I .. .. .. .. .. • • • • Science & Technology Eating Disorders by Victoria Hargreaves Sand T Writer Milk, orange juice, potato chips, syrup of ipecac, ice cream, and soda--the shopping list of an aver- age college student, rigllt? Unfor- tunately, this is becoming the shop- ping list of increasingly more stu- dents. Eating junk food and soda occasionally is forgivable in mod- eration and when combined with a nonnal exercise pattern; however, one cannot forgive the use of syrup of ipecac for dietary means when it usually serves as a vomit- inducing agent for poison victims. Although the waif look has lost some of its popularity in the model world, one cannot avoid the con- stant media reminders that \thin\ will always be \in.\ These remind- ers brainwash both males and fe· males to believe that to achieve beauty, one must be thin. As are- sult of these feelings, some Ameri- cans starve themselves, purge, and abuse themselves. These actions can be seen in the eating disorders an01:exia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and compulsive overeating. \Technically speaking, the 'eating' in eating disorder refers to a set of eating habits, weight management practices, and attitudes about weight and body shape. The 'disorder' means that the eating-related attitudes and behaviors result in (a) loss of self- control and other forms of behavioral inefficiency, (b) obsession, anxiety, gui It, and other forms ofmisery,(c) alienation from self and others, and (d) physiological imbalances which are potentially life-threatening,\ says Eating Disorders and Awareness Prevention, Incorporated (EDAP). Anorexia is typically character- ized by a strong hatred of fat, a competition with oneself to be- come more and more thin, an in- ability to see one's true body shape, dramatic weight loss, and a refusal to adopt a healthy diet. Bulimia is a cycle ofbingeing and purging. One suffering from bu- limia eats an excessive amount of food and then to \anesthetize hun- ger, anger, and other feelings,\ will feel the need to eliminate the food by \inducing vomiting; and by re- sorting to some comb illation of re- strictive dieting, excessive exercis- ing, laxatives, and diuretics.\ Compulsive over-eaters partici- pate the bingeing part ofthe b1:1limic cycle. While there is no purging, \ . . . there may be sporadic fasts or repetitive diets.\ '·'Dieting, bingeing, and purging help some people to cope with p11inful emo- tions and to feel as if they are in control of their lives. Yet, at the same time, these behaviors under- mine physical health, self-esteem, and a sense of competence and control.\ Overeating; in its ad- vanced stages, can lead toobesity, cardiovascular disease, and in some cases, cancer. Although we cannot undo the · damage that has already been done, we can work to prevent fur- ther destruction from eating disor- ders. The EDAP' s main tenets alert the public, emphasize the impor- tance of self-esteem, challenge the \cultural attitudes and values which promote the development of · eating disorders,\ and stress the importance of early detection. \Early education is crucial for the successful prevention of eat- ing disorders.\ Parents must reas- sess their feelings on beauty and body shape to educate their chil- dren and hopefully to lessen, if not end, eating disorders. The EDAP advises, \Be a good role model in regard to sensible eating, sensible exercise, and self-acceptance .... Make a commitment to exercise for the joy of feeling your body move and function effectively, not to purge fat from your body or com- pensate for calories eaten.\ In a community, we, as friends, must watch out for one another. The EDAP feels that if you believe a friend has an eating disorder, you have a duty to act. The counse- lors suggest that you confront the person in a caring and honest way, verbalize your feelings, listen to his or her feelings, and encourage him or her to seek medical attention. Source: http:/ members.aoLcom/ edapinc/home.html Outreach Program is More Than Meets the Eye by Sam Salamone SandT Writer Last year, as a freshman, I had the opportunity to participate in an in an autstMding program that may be one of the best kept secrets on the campus. The Student Outreach Program, under the supervision of Chemistry professor Charles Scaife and his wife Priscilla, is an organi- zation that deserves some recog- nition, publicity, and advertise- ment. I am sure I speak for all the stu- dents who participated in the pro- gram when I say that it is an in- credible way to get involved, not only within the campus, but in the communities that surround the campus. Last year, 16 students par- ticipated in the program and . worked together in pairs or small groups, giving a total of 17 presen- tations . The presentations consist of traveling to schools in the sur- rounding area and offering to young students the opportunity to partake in hands-on science experi- ments. We present in the classroom during school as well as in assem- bly halls and gymnasiums during evening Jlrograms. We also made some special presentations. The group participated in National Chemistry Day in the Empire State Plaza. We made.two presentations . fortheAmerican Chemical Society, and we had a presentation at the Steinmetz Symposium. The program has been a won- derful experience for so many stu- dents, young and old alike. The students to whom we present learn a lot and have a great time. The program also stimulates communi- cation Between parents and children and promotes the importance of the family. The program is certainly beneficial for students, parents, .and families in general. However, I feel that the presenters get just as much, if not more, out of the pro- gram. The program is especially good for people who, like myself, are pursuing a career in teaching. It allows you to get out into the schools, interact with students, learn valuable teaching tech- niques, and have a Jot of fun. If you are having trouble find- ing a way to get involved in extra- curricular activities, you may want to consider checking out the Stu- dent Outreach Program, For more information on how you can get involved, contact Professor Scaife at extension 6341. You may, as all of us who have already partici- pated, find that you will teach a lot and have a lot of fun in the pro- cess. I

Advertisements ' . ' . . ' ' > m~,c <!i:on.corbimsis • October 2, 1997 •l'age 7 Polo Ralph Lauren Factory Store CELEBRATES PARENTS WEEKEND 15% OFF YOUR ENTIRE J>URCHASE Present this ad for your special savings on clothing for men~ wotnen, boys, and furnishings for thC' htlme. Polo Ralph Lauren Factory Store Cohm•f. Commons~ Cohoes, NPw York (5H:) 233-0307 has greatly expanded its used book section 950 State St., Schenectady • {518) 381-9183 Great bargains on l ,OOO's of books on the arts. cultures, environment, textbooks, and for the general reader. We are cu\ently selling a large library of African, African-American, and Social Sciences books. Some boolu are priced. Most sell at flat rates: I lard Cover- $2.00 0 Tmde Paperback- $1.00 \ }\)pulat l'aperback- 50¢ lluy three, get one free! <)Jx'1l 9:30-.5:00pm Wed.-Sun., open till 9:00pm on T'hurs., closed Mon., Tw:s. 2 blocks west of Route 146. In the same building as the Whitehouse Flea Market, with ov~:r 50 other int~.'l'Csting shops. Lunch Just $4.99!! Mon .. -Sat. 11AM-3:30PM Dinner Only$7.95!! Mo:n.-Thur. 4PM-IOPM Fri.-Sat. 4PM-10:30PM Sunday 12PM-10PM Phone: (518)356-5949 1116 Al\tainont Ave. Ro\t\terda:rn., :NY 12303 From Union: Take Nott Terrace to State St Take a left onto State St. & follow to the Route 7 signs. Take a right onto Route 7 (\The Cr~town\). Continue straight as Route 7 turns into Curry Rd. Follow Curry tJn1il you·re surrounded by s1rip malls. AtALtamont Ave., take a left Ocean Buffet .is on your left Take-out Menu Available A nil we Acceyt Vi.sa. & Mastercard

Page 8 · October 2, 199i • _'Qrlre Qhtlt.wrMcnsis · - · . · OP/ED - - The Students Are Not The Only People That Matter During the last four year, Union College has had a strong overall staff of employees at several levels. Howev~r, a disturbing trend has started over the past year, and it must be addressed. Many of these gems of Union have started to leave the Union staff. This trend started with Mrs. LorraineMarra, Twitty Styles, and George retiring as of the last academic year. These three fine \'\'-'\'\\• gave this institution their all, and they were a~ selfless as they could be. For a student, especially a freshman or SQ!)homore, it was r<>Tr<>cn-·• ing to see such outgoing people in a world of such selfishness. year, the trend has continued as Theresa Viva has left the .......... ~'\'\\\-• and Dining Services in order to open her vwn business on upper Street. These four losses do not even begin to refle~t the en01mous nPr'\\\'-• nel transitions we have seen within several of this school's depart- ments. As Presidents Clinton and Hull state,, \Change is good,\ but • Union College does not always treat its empl(lyees like kings. causes an unnatural rapid transition througlio11t the school, giving continuity to positions or departments. Who suffers in the end? The new students are the first to feel the effects of such turnover. The ability to go to a Mrs. Marra and tap her 35 years of Union College knowledge was :an absolute asset which freshmen will never be able to know nor appreciate. We cannot get Theresa or any of these grand fo'lks back, but what we can do is set the course for employee longevity. If the Union fac- ulty and staff are supposed to bea \family it should be a cohe- sive unit that looks after the well being of all of ,its members. If a member of the Union family is not happy, we need to try Pvf•rv1·n1n we can do to keep that employee here. In other words, the rumors questionable job terminations and transfers n eecl to cease. Are we looking for 35-year employees throughout the college? It would be nice, but it is not practical. What vve are looking for is a smiling face that we are comfortable with as often as possible. We are looking for people that know how to do their jobs so that if we have a problem, they can help us solve it. No manual will train a person perfectly for employment at a college such as til is one. Only on-the- • • tntons Hey, CDC! What About Us? by Chris Leone Ma11aging Editor While I may only be a junior (possibly a sophomore ifyou ask the registrar), my working future is still right around the corner, and last week's career festival was im- portant to visit. Never having gone to a function such as this, there were no expectations and no fears. The only emotion that I might have felt was great appre- ciation for the members of the CDC. I was wrong! While I made my way around the crowded field house, I real- ized two very important things about the CDC. First, they have forgotten that this is a liberal arts college and that we are not all en- gineering majors. Second, it is a far stretch, if not a warped idea, to think that every student is go- ing to attend, let alone afford, graduate school. All totaled, 46 businesses graced our presence. Of that number, nearly half were specifi- cally suited for those students who spend there hours in engineering labs. While engineers receive great kudos for their hard work, this can in no way be thought of as equal representation. The fact that I cannot build an erector set, let alone a car or a bridge, does not mean I am ineligible to an open job market. General Dynamics sent three divisions to recruit prospective employees .. Is it too much to ask that the CDC spend a little more of their time talking with other non-engineering firms? It is amazing that the student body has more diversity and imagination than the CDC, which says a lot. With 26 colleges and universi .. ties in attendance, the field house felt 'like a high school college fair. Correct me if I am wrong, and I am sure someone will, but one of the ideas behind a \career\ is earning a pay check. Lasttime I checked there was no way to make money while go,ing to school unless you are lucky enough to receive a work service job, Which is never guaranteed. Yes, it is impossible to have a career as a lawyer or as a doctor without spending some time atan institution. Which is the appro- priate name for grad schoo Is, con- sidering the mental brilliance some of them recently showed. The most depressing thing about all the colleges attending was that many of them forgot, or figured that they did not need fi- nancial aid forms with their pack- ets. I realize that Union is a high- priced college, but one would hope that these admissions mem- bers, who will either accept you or force you to getacareer, would realize that we are not all made of money. These schools, which will teach our future leaders, still do net understand socio-economics. The idea behind the career fes- th,al is a good one. It allows for a sampling of possible jobs after leaving our sheltered grounds. The way the festival was orga- nized was an atrocity. Ask a non- engineer or a person looking for a job ifthiswhole experience was useful, and they will most likely :laugh. Yes, there was a good number ofbusinesses there; it was the rep- resentation that was pathetic .. Over the past six months I have held a full-time job and have been responsible for helping those above, around, and below me. It is time that the CDC became ac- countable for their mistakes and that Union went to other career festivals to find their replace- ments. 'The Concordiensis shares no part in Mr. Leone's views on these issues. The Opinions Editor would like to note that due to excess articles and lack of space, the weekly cartoon for this issue has been pre-empted jobtr~n~gissu~cient~rmodareasofern~eyment,andevenMn. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Marraafter35yearsstillseemedtoleamfrorn the students. M. ohmar The Ignorant We feel as if several keystones ofthis institlltion have been removed. · . . · · · · · . · . There is no immediate solution in restorin.g these keystones, but we . · · . . · . · hope to see the administration assist in making co11ditions ripe for longer terms of employment, especially in key positions and student-inten- sive positions at Union College. FSR The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1871 Schenectady's Oldest NewspaJU!r Aileen Quigley, Frank Rossi EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Matt Cohen Amy DiBattista EXECUTIVE EDITORS Christopher Leone MANAGING EDITOR Peter Simon OPINIONS EDITOR Lori Greene Kim Rohback ARTS& ENTERTAINMENT EDITORS Dan Queen Geoff Sullivan SPORTS EDITORS Tatiana Cogevina Rob Hagopian COMPUTER MANAGERS Michelle Tham FEATURES EDITOR Erika Mancini ED!TORJA L CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Amy DiBattista COPY EDITOR Laurie Kirschner ))ave Meguerdichian PHOTO EDITORS PHOTOGRAPHERS: Rick Lederer, Aamn 'lka1111stein, Laurie Kirschner STAFF' Josh Adams, Matt Aronowitz, Anja li Balasingham, Kelen Barr, Hannah Blum, Tracy Boriskin, JamieCitalldler~Shana Dangelo, Mil{e DeMicco, Gabriela Dory, Jason Evereit,. Jonathan Gasthalter, Victoria Hargreaves, David Kay, Adrian MaotLean, Erika Mancini, Josh Mendelsohn, Pike Mody, Nick Papanickvlas~Lisa Pertoso, Eugene D. Schultz, Stephanie Speanburg, Brian Terlinsld, Rellecca Thyresson, David Weiner, Maura Whitbold. by Alissa Riba Contributing Writer When I read the recent article entitled \The Last Temptation of Mohmar,\ I couldn't help but think how ignorant some people can be. I was one of the stu- dents that was supposed to travel to Israel this fall, but when I heard of the unfortunate bomb- ings, I decided that this was not the best time for me to leave. There are two points that I think are pertinent to this Jetter. One is that several of my friends and I did not cancel our plans because we {appropriately) feared for our lives. Rather, we felt that in order to spend four months in another country, we should be able to go and. see as many sights as possible. The last thing that I wanted was to get to Israel and then be told that I couldn't go to the most popu- lar places there. It wasn't worth it. When you say \be a smart traveler and tourist and don'tgo to areas that you know there have been problems before,\ then yo~;~ obviously don't know what it means to be a student in lsrae I right now. Just two weeks ago there was another bombing in the Middle Bast--in Egypt, where ten tourists were killed. These tourists were killed in a place in which several students spent time in the last year. Would you make the assumption that these ten people were not smart? I think rather that they were just very unfortunate. I didn't want to be one ofthe un- fortunate ones. With regards to residence life, I appreciate all the time and energy they spent with us regarding our housing situation. However, dealing with students like us, those in very complicated situations, is their job l did not arrive at school ex- pecting to be treated any differ- ently than any other student, but I wasn't every other student. I decided within hours not to go to a place that I had planned on for an entire year; I also had intentions of living in my sorority house in the win- ter, but when I returned to Union, I found out that the house was already filled. There were other issues involved in what was going on here. Next time you decide to write anony- mous letters and responses, you may want to find out all the de- tails and facts involved. Letters Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Mondaybefore publication. Letters must he less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the lJ nion College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed and saved on a high density disk although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns, or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is printed by World Media, 1104 Central Avenue, Albany, NY, 12205. · The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, & King Syndicates. - al w \«: 01 Y< cc: bl di m m m h; w m T t~ fi fi VI ·c i~ s: VI a

\. OP/ED · . , - ([ITc (U.onn,roicn!i>is • October Z, 1997 ' Page 9 0 • • • zn1o.ns -Immature Fres-hman - A Respon~e by Maura WittboJd Staff Writer being the mature upperclassman that you are, do you feel the need to ex:pr.ess such. disgust for students \Ignorant freshman?\ First of with whom y<iuobviouslyhave no all, Chris, I think you meant to desire to ass()ciate? Why must you write \ignorant freshmen,\ with-~- bother with us? Instead' of wast- \e;~' unless you were sil:!gling out ing your time criticizing our small one freslima~, in particular,. then imperfections, why don't you yo\l Would have been correct. write an article ·of significance? I wonder, Chris. Were you ever l·must give you credit, though. an \ignorant fr~shman?;,. No', I If you were looking for a. reaction, guess not. I suppose you have bereyou go. Here is your reaction. heenanupperc1assman allofyour 1 tbink it i$ q)'Iite, depressing that years here at Union. I'm also as- as an upperclassman, ·a supposed sm11ing that you've never worn an adult, about to embark on a jour• article ofUnion clothing.l' m sure· ney Into tlle profe$sional world, you've never gotten a little lost on couldfind'yollrselfconcerned with campus; drank to. excess, or heJ~ the. petty inc-onveniences in your up a few lines, whether you were life.l' d~ expect that from a fresh- in the dining hall or at a terminal man. I'd think that you would be in the campust;enter. No Chris; ac- .. able to excu-se us; maybe you'd tuaUy~ I am quite· sure that you are e:ven·rememberthetime when yoy perfect. · · ' · were a freshman--holding up lines 'lwasabsolutelyshockedatyo\lr and wanting. desperately to find ·}?latant criticism ofthe newest ad- your way, ~ll the while adorned in dition to the Union College com- . .Your brand new Union sweat suit. munity. Okay, so maybe the fresh- 1 gue$s that will come with matu- men are a little confused, ex:peri• rity, though. mental~ immature at times,. or.per- As for yoilr comment concern~ haps we've even overstayed· our ing the newfreshma.n staff of The · welcome atthe campus centerter- C:oncordiemris, who the hell are rninal once or twice, \Vhy tllough, you? ·ah;. right l forgot about your TQ -the Opinions Editor: Union is a mess! And I am not talking about the construction .ef~ forts. rn fact, the construction ~f.:. forts seem to- be the only thing working lately. First, the school · cannot manage money and now it is going to destroy the scheduling system. This new: trial. schedule, with its c;;ommon lunch period,. is an experiment in disaster. Before I elaborate,. I must estab· lish a few things so everyone is clear where I am coming from. Ad- mittedly, I have a certain vested in- terest in keeping the status quo, be· cause as a Senior, I have adapted to the trimester system since Fresh- man year. I am used to it ;lind do not want it changed. As far as that system goes, it is not perfect :I agree, but it works and is not _in need of fixing. And to the campus C()mmu- nity, altering the trimester system with this trial experiment isJaying the groundwork for the horrible idea of the 4-l-4 schedule. This schedule will not affect me, because I will have graduated before it is implemented, but the danger tooth- ' ers makes it necessary for me to speak out. How are these ridiculou.s deci- sions made in the first place? It is because tnis school has too many faceless· Committees doing things just for the sake of doing things. To all on these faceless Committees, you do not represent tne. · Specifi- ca11y to the Academic Affair5Coun· ci,l (AAC}who voted last spring for this trial experiment, by all appear- ances you· did this EJehind everybody;s back. The only tried and true means I know, is that one must always represent him/.-.erself. So, I follow from -that truth. l would like to know whq these. stu- dents are on the AAC? Who are the faculty who are supportilig this? I believe these voices de n~t repre- sent the-student body, and $SUredly yo~ do not represent mine. With the exception of one, and that being expanding sport compe- tition, there is no otner advantage to altering tile system. The big thrust ofthis .trial disaster is to pro- vide a common lunch period. ls the Pike Company going to build new dining halls? I wonder it these Committees see the mad rush at 12: 15 whe11 everyone lets out of their classes. Now, imaginethatthe majority of the campus is going to lunch from 1:2:05 t<> 1:30. l do not like to wait &n long lines, and then have to rush to get to my next class. And if these Committee people honestly believe that Dining Ser- vices can accommodate the added rush within tlie time frame as well as space confinements, then they are more detached from this school than 1 already believe they are. If the school is. intent on continuing with this ridiculous policy, they must be prepared to let any student who wants to out of the meal plan. This new schedule does not guar- antee access to meals as people claim, it guarantees a stressful en- vironment trying to beat the crowd that will continue from 12:05 to 1:30. Now, to tum to the 4-1-4 pro- posal. There is not one advantage offered. The new proposal has four classes for tile first thirteen weeks, which would ~pilt Thanksgiving, then one class in the winter, lasting four weeks-, followed by four classes for another thirteen weeks. The logidsthat it will help h1 find- ing summer jobs because we are out May twenty-third, Well, other schools are out May fifth. or sixth. These people still get the first crack at jobs. Afsu;. finding a job .is not as impossible as this proposed fi:x makes it out ·to be. It just takes ini- tiative. If you want a job during the summer, apply for it during the winter or spting break. You may not get your first choice, but you•Ii' get something. There--problem solved! Also, the 4 .. 1 .. 4 system will cost Pulitzer last year. ·G11ess what, · Chris? Longevity on as.taff doesn't necessarily rilake you better. Yes, you, Chris? obviously h;:we more experience writing for the news- paperthan a freshman does. Some • people, though, just hit a plateau. Do you know what I mean,. Chris? · Where their writing f~r example, just stops improving. No matter what they do, how ma11y ho\lrs they spend in the staff ro«;>Jn, how many nasty articles th.ey write about freshmen, their writ-ing just wiH never further develop. As an Arts and Ented!linment staff member; :1 think tlut you should be grateful to the freshmen who were willing to tllke the risk of trying something ne~, who were willing to be criticized by a big, old upperclassman~ such as yourself. While we freshmen take your . advice and look in the dictionary under 'm' for \moderation per- haps you should take mine and look under 'm' for ''maturity.\ Maura Wittbold Class 2001 $200,000 more. Maybe tile face- less Com~ittees do not understand, but when you propose solutions, it should be cost-effective or at least have the money paying for some- thing th~tt has yalue. You do not add costs for the fix unless it is ab- solutely necessary. And in this case, the faceless Committee's rea- soning as well as their solutions are not necess,ary' and aS a consequence you are wasting people's time and money. We should not think that teach• ers will lighten the work l()ad be- cause of the fourth class. Til ere is a phenomenon, persuasive all around, ·and even here called \Not In My Back Yard\ (NIMBY), in which people want others to sacri- fice but they do not wapt to do it themselves. How NIMBY relates here, is that each Professorbelieves his or her class is more important. Naturally, the teacher is interested in the subject and has teen study- ing it for years, so of course he or she believes it is the best stlbject, Union NIMBY will h~ve each teacher expecting the oth.er teacher to lighten the lead. And the mind set, I assure· you will be, \Tilirteen weeks, that's three more than the trimester system, I can s.queeze in another book, another reJlort .... \ Now multiply this reas()ning times the four classes. The truth, just like the Winter lunch hour, the 4-1-4 class -will add stress to your already stressful day. To the faceless Committees, if you want to ~ something effective, vote yourselftmt of existence. That way you do something. while solv- ingthe problem. To President Hull, like the Hockey Rink issue, listen to the pulse of the student b()dy, not the faceless Committees. I am con- vinced you will make the right de- cision. Sincerely, Matt Sandler Classqj•98 I'm Sorry Chef's To the Staff Members of Chet's, I would sincerely like to issue 'this·open apology to you regard- ing an incident l was an element ofthesecond weekofUnion. My- boyfriend (a former Swansea ex- c-hange student} and myself_were absolutely too wasted to control ourselves in a proper manner at your bar. While I am certainly not apologizing on his behalf (he probably isn't very son)r and feels he was standing up for his rights), · l do tecogn ize that my \drunken disordelilyconduet\ was out of line, obtrusive, and gener- ally not typical of myself! AU I remember was seeing my boyfriend, Simon Perry, being yelled at by staff members-at which l became vety defensive and put m'y nose where it shouldn't have gone (or maybe it was my feet on top of tables ... ). Admittedly, I was so heavily in- ebriated that right now I don't even know who I am apologizing to{we're talkingfaces here, none- theless nam~s as well), am11ot1gn it is a sincere apology at that. As a senior at Union, l've had: the misfortune of finding out first- hand the ridiculous amount of control the administration has over its students, who are too apa- . thetic: 'to question it (seemingly). Getting thrown out of your estab- lishment when I finally reached 21 (gett i:ng thrown out when I was underage is under- standable enough) touched my sore regarding Union's absolute power, and got my liquored body all in a huff-to the wrong people. As Dean. Schurick; Brendan Schaefer (although not involved), and myself went through the se- curity report of that evening, we definitely found humor in the transpired events (you should have seen what went on later at the Pink Palace) but did realize the severity of Simon 'sand my rude- ness. I certainly hope this will be water under the bridge and that I can once again enjoy a few pints at the locaL Sincerely, Alexandra Beuchert, '98 Homopho~ia! Dear Concordiensis, This is a public service announcement for the student body at Union. On Saturday the 27th, a friend and I were walking on campus when a guy in a blue car, speeding nevertheless, screamed out, \Faggot as he passed_ us. I am absolutely appalled, and I would just like to warn my classmatesthat a bad case of homophobia is going around our campus. This situation should be dubbed an ~mergency. For the love ofhumanity, will you yahoos out there get an education? A faggot is bundle of sticks, in my book. A concerned advocate and defender of gay, lesbian and bisexual rights, Aaren Hatalsky Thank You Sisters Amidst a racing heart and an overwhelmed mind we want to take this time to thank everyone who made the Panhellenic skit night possible. From the packed, enthusiastic crowd to the extremely talented participants, the entire production was a success. Thank you, Emily, for organizing, heading, and dealing with all the headaches of the production. We couldn't have don(;) it without you. I send a tre~endous appreciation to all the sororities for working togethe.r to bring everyone to a unified team and a warm thanks to Chet's for .bending the schedule to adapt to our needs. Sigma Gamma Rho and Sigma Iota Alpha, we missed you deeply tonight-·but you remained within the spirit ofthe production. To Delta Gamma, Delta Delta Delta, Gamma Phi Beta, and Sigma Delta Tau, you are incredible. Sincerely, The Panhellenic Council of Union College

Page 10 • October 2, 1997 ·'QII!c QI:~,mcnr.llintsis . . . · · · Features by Anonymous Let's just jump right in to this week's installment. First, preps go to the Concordy. Not only l)ave they placed us in the spotlight of the Features section{ where we be- long, duh!), but they buried some article call<;!d \Thurberville'' next to the full-page add for the Career Festival--which brings us to our next topic of conversation,. and our first rant. Djahmbi, go fetch rrte a beverage. Actually, before jumping right into the festival, let's start with the Career Development Center. While we do appreciate what they try to do, it is nothing like what they actually do. I don't know about all you out there, hut when I go in to make an appointment, do you e?<pect me to believe-that all the people that work there are busy--for the next two weeks? I don't think so. I took a little peek (innocently, I swear) in the ap- pointment book on the desk, and all I saw were squiggly lines, no appointments. Does ·the school pay these people t() have lunch professionally and to ·compete to see who has the most sqyiggly lines in their day? We think not. Segway . . . . Close your eyes for a moment, a11d picture this--the field-house, September 24, 1997. You walk in, there are lots of tables, and there are seniors dress- ing like \real\ people, clean- shaven and sucking in their beer guts, while speaking in complete sentences. All had the same aspi- ration--to find their dream com- pany. Unfortunately, unless you want to be a consultant (D&M's note: that's our polite way of say- ing unless you want to work for Andersen or Hewitt), there wasn't jack there for you! Okay, there was the O'?casional law school and medical school, but what was there for bums like Djahmbi and Mohmar? You guessed it: We, like the other der- elicts, represent the almost two per cent ofthe class of1998tlot inter- . ested in consulting, law, or medi- cine. We could go on fot the rest of the Concordy, if we're not bur- ied that is, but we have more to discuss. So, we leave it to you. Te11 us what you think. We could be wrong, though that would be highly unlikely. Ah, yes--the second to last bas- tion of intellectual work. in the Concordy (only behind D&M of course) is the s~curity report. We, like any good Union students, read that bad boy first. The excitement looms. Who went to the hospital this week? Were there any fire aianns pulled? Was there any van- dalism? What jack@$$ left his pizza mobile unlocked on a col- lege campus filled with drunken students? The answers to these and·other burning questions are a.l'l found in the handy-dandy security report. Gatta love it! At >12:48 AM on Septemb.er 21, a resident in West took a class trip to Ellis. This was a special trip that he or she was allowed to go on, without mommy and daddy's per- mission, but here's the kicker-- they get' to foot the bill. Wow, what a trip and experience that must have been. Do you think it tops.:the zoo? In fact, Union Col- lege is thinking about transferring all Freshman Preceptorial Classes to the emergency room of Ellis. Good idea, Rog .. Speaking of the ·hospital--ER live. What did you all\think? Let us know. We'll divulge our opin- ions next week. We were honored this week to get a bunch of questions, so here are some of our faves. What .animal do kidney beans come from? Is there an animal with kidneys the size· of kidney beans? --Ralph the engineer, locked in S&E Ralph.,-- Good question. Was this a drunken revelation, or were you sitting too close to the particle ac- celerator? To answer your ques- tion, we go to Dr, Djahmbi (Mohmar' s note: Djahmbi isn't re- ally adoctor. He just plays one on_ paper). Kidney betJ;nscan he found · collecting in the bathrooms and: .· comers of any Union College fra- ternity. _ Do not make eye cof1lact with the beans. I lost a toe to a particularly aggressive pack of le-. gumes in the stall of Delta Phi right before they were condemned. lt wasn't the state of the ·house that got them condemned. It was the beans! In answer to your second query, you can find kidneys t.he size of kidney beans jn any Union Co1fe,ge · seniorwho has indulged in the rec- · ommendecl dosage of beverages in his or her three-plus years here (Mohmat's note: (!uhf Tbey're · called kidney b.eans 'cause oftheir shape ... I th'ink). Ask: anyone taking the nutrition class. They'll tell ya'. Why do people go to the gym with the intention of working out, but then they do their best not to break a sweat? When you're working out, something should hurt when you're done, right? I don't get it. · --Ahnold, from Alumni Gym There is no answer to ~his very Pointless· . . . . . - . . . . ' Ob,servatiriDs ' . ' ' ' . '.. . ·- ... . A Sketchy CommentarY On a Sketchy Town good question. If you wantt() look good at the gym, don't come J:o the · gym. Stand outside and: st~y ·OUt of the way. What is the }Joint i>f working out if you don't b;reaka sweat. Okay, maybe youglisten or glow, but do something for the love of God. Mohniar was so ticked that he just stormedout. The truth hurts just t()O much. by David' Kay . Contributing WriteT. . Well, last weeke~d I realize,d how' Schenectady got it;s~bad reputation .. After realizing that there was absolUtely nothing to. do. on campus, I took .a little trip into town by myselfto see ifthere was anylhitlg going. on. ·r probably Why is Charlie Brown's head so , shouldhave reaH~ed thati 'being big? well-dressed' and white, I was in --Lucy, in Richmond the miljol'ity only on campus and Elephantitis. Next ques1ion. a target for multiple muggings in the city. , . . . ·· · I got all the wayto the \A Plus\ 1 recently got a piece (){glass before a big dark guy ~arne up stuck in my foot beca-use the from ,behind me. At fir~t, J,didri ;t ghost/spirit that lives in my ,[Jpart'\- , know who he was ta:lki~g to wh~n mentknocked aframedpict'llre pff he shouted in my dire9tion, but I the wail in the middle of the night. p~:obably should have igriored:bim The ghost also knocks .Qf1 ottr'door . or something. all the time. One of my roo~n1nates . Tile nexttbing lknow, this gu)' is convinced it's a good :;pirit, so . is telling me that he needs $43-50 how can we all live togeth~.r with . so that he cari take. the Greyhound no surprises? . . to Pbiladelphi!J.. \I'll write your --Glue-sniffer, on Unfv~rslty St. name and address down so: that I . Hmm ... we're not sure how we should respond to this. Onthe one hand, if the appariti()n is be- nevolent, pour yourself, and your new friend, a glass ()fGo lden Anniv~sary Lite and enjoy the ride. On the othei\.fian<l ifyour spectre is wrathful and demands the sustenance of your virgin soul, l suggest tha~ you call Egon Spengler and the gan~. You should still pour yourselfa GA. lite- and get lit with yoUJ; roomies. caa pay you ba:ck when I getthere, I swear. I really need this. You have to believe me. My bus.was late t<> Schenectac;Iy, and I missed the next one back borne.;' I knew he was lying, so .l told him that I didq't have the, money, which. was true. Thad $2:5 .on me; but 1 wasn't aboutto give any of it to him. So, l told him that I didn't h_ave anything for ~irtl, but he . wouldn;t leave me alone, ~· 1 wenthltothe\A Plus·:· hoping· ·tnat maybe l could tell them that this weird guy w<H1ldn'tJeave me arone, bQt unfor.tunately he foJ- . Jawed me inside. '[didh't know · what to .say to .the cash~er, so I ·pulled out my wallet and told her to change my five for dollar bills. . When. l got outside, I could see . tbat the guy was . a little (lgitated . · that I told him.I didn't have any- thing. for him before.lstill had my wallet out because I was putting it :baqk in my ;pocket, ahd he was try; ing to lead me; into the dar.kshad- owy area next to the st~re. I stayec:t · where 1 was in front trying to be . in full view so the cashier could . . see ine. ' . Obvio!Jsly, the guy was just:try~ ing to_ rip ine gff,. so· I gave him thFee bucks and h'oped that he · . would leave me alone. I could see · tllatche wasn 'tall too pleased with what l gave ltiin:, but I wasn't about to J>ay his way for ~-couple of bottles- of Jack Daniels. Thank- ft'illy, he left me alone, even If I had to give him money to do SQ. I guess what I learned and ·what l want to pass on to others is to .never go into Schenectady ever again and to never buy ap.ything froin A Ptu·s, because all of their . products are crap and no good. · ·Thank you. Until next time, com- ments or questions are welcome at mailbox #1 058. On the third and final 'llan<l. you could lay off the·GA lite (a11d the PCP). Perhaps your special friend/ drinking buddy/invisible. rabbit will go back into the e11ler from, whence he came (D&M 's note: ours has gone missing. [fy()u find him, stuff him into D&M's Letterhole. Much obliged). This concludes another rivetiJig . installment ofD&M. · lfy<Ju want to communicate with ~our heroes (that would be us), y<Ju know where the Letterho.Je is. Video Games, OJ Tapes, Wait Djahmbi, ya' fruitcake. pue to the incompetence o-fthe In- formation Booth employees, the Letterhole has become 11eglected and hidden. Therefore, all future corr~spondence can be done ·. · through e-mail or throu:gh letters to the Concordy. Make t~e sub- ject heading \D&M and we will he sure to get it. That-address is: ('cause we know you're ~ll~ts lazy as D&M and won't lo<Jk it up) Concordy@ union.ed~ . . D&M must now go write a let- ter to Jay or Conan because Dave. &*A. Albany?! Any idiot knows where Schenectady is. Keep those questions rolling in. In the \\lords of the great gum company, \'Who wants Trident? We do. We ao.\ . . . LPs, 12\ Singles, and More ... BUY~ SElL- TRADE II

Advertisements · lTilp··<!Ion.coroim!';Jt!ii·. October2, 1997.•.Page l1 A Healthy Investment in Your Future Health Cue. Those two word$ have been the s-OUr«! of much difeus$ion rc<:ently. Probably bc<:aute we a$ a nation kn,ow the importance of inve:sting in a healthy future. So do milliOn$ ()(patient$ who -choos!! chiropr.t.~tic as their · preferred source ·of health care.· The chiropractic belie& in nm¢$$1, nutrition. prevention~ and .natural · maintenance make gotHi sense. Wellness, you s~~' l$ the not:mal· . . $late of~ing. NewYork St~~ government · . agrees.Tbey bave tecently.patsed the Insurance ·Equality bill that · mandat~ ]t\$u,n.6ce cov¢tage for cbiropractic qare. . For over 75 years, New Yotk . , Chiropr:acti<J CoUege has upheld a ; · tradition o( exceUenee in d.•iropra¢tic -: bigber cducat,io.n. Our <X>tn.bi.nqd . ' · rraditi<>tl$, old and ntw. have built the · b~$e from which the <;hirop~¢tie.. · dg<:t<>rs of tile £urure .tre (rea ted; Cboost} New York Chiropractic · College. A heat thy inwstment for tod~y and tomorrow. ~, ........ es · .. Br J!r7~~~!s ~ . ::. ................... 1.~ .............. $7 ... 99 ea. or ~ ............ :~ .......... $2,.99 ea. or. 5~neet COs ........... ~;~~~;·1'3 ea ... or . VIDEOS ...... 2 for$10 ' . P R I :\ C I P L E S u t S 0 tT :-\ D H E T I R E J\l L ::\ T I X V E S T l N Cl · OVHll ONE MILLION OF THE BEST ,.. MINDS IN AMERICA .HAVE ALREADY CHOSEN-TH.R BEST ......... ~· MHNT SYSTEM. • TIAA-CREF. . ' . - ' - ' W hen it comes t() planning. a.com:fort- able future, over 1.8 mtlhon of America's best and brightest count on TIAA-CREF. With $ '190 billion in assets, we're the world's largest retiremen~ company, th.e nation's leader in CU:ltorner satisfaction, and the overn'helming choice of people in educalion, research and J~elated fields? The reaso.n? For nearly 80 years, TIAA•CREF has introduced intdligent solutions to America's loog•tenn planning needs. We pioneered por·table benefits. 'Ve invented the variable annuity and help~d pof>ula:riz~ the V'ery concept of stock investing for retirement planning. Today, 1'IAA-CREf~'s expertise ofters an i.mpre~ive range of ways to .help you create a comfoct .. 1ble and secure tomorrow. From the guarantees of TIAA's top-rated Trad,iional Annuity 0 <> to the additional growth opportunities of our variable invest- ment account~. y()u'll find the flexibility and diversity yo\.1 need to help you meet your · long-term goals. And they're all },acked by some of the most knowlecdgeahle investment map.agers in the industry. T() learn more about the world's pre- mier retirement <>rganization, speak to one of our expert consultants at l 800 842-2776 (8 a..m.-11 p.m. ET). Or better still, speak to one of your colleagues. Find out why, when it comes to planning for tcmorrow. great minds think alik(). Visit us on the Internet at Wl'Vl\l'.tiaa-cr.ef.org \lbsed <lli .1 '\\\\~' ,-.,,m:li~<.1td it1 1?'11> by''\ i!ld.l\'mlem llf!•niu<toun \'·\·!n~h %'lh·uf o\l1Spo<t<fenr. explW>Md \\'\''II \''i.faaioO> widl TIAA ·CR~:F \\TI,\A ;, un~ <.11\ .only\ l..,n.lfltl!lf <'\'\'!'~\;. th•r Nm••lltv h<>lt!.th~ higlw$.1 onorl<• fr\\\ dtc t>atiot~'> l«•dio>g i.xkp.rtrl~nl r;otinll ~s••••·i~ for \ability ~..,unci '\\'\''\\'nt~. dairn•·!~•ying abiliry. ant! \\\\\'IIJinm\ stwl!lth: t\ •• (Suf''\'\r). J\.:'>1. lk•rC...; A<\A 11ul¥ & Phdl'\· 1\•\· ,\\\<R><i)·'•lnvc><un. Son·icc: ;\;\:\, ~tanilarJ onti Pooio. Tl AA's gu•rnnte<'> ar~ h:,rk<il.h.v it& d,umscp .. ,,,.ing ability. TJ ... ,., ratinu'l>·ofTI/\1\ \\an insuramt• '\'\\I\'\.V do \\' .IJ>ply to CltEI~ CRf;:ji <'<'11ifi,·M~~ ar• di,uillut~d hy TlAt\·CilEF hHii>idlo.>l.wd lnstituliomti Scr.Jiws, lnr. !'rn· more <nmplrle ini(JI'tl1arinll. induding dMrUt'll ~P11 <~~PI'n~NO. , ... II 1801) &fl·27.'ii>, ext~n;ion r..i>ll'l, for a rw<>•p.,em<. R~nd tht! pr<>\f\'cw• ca.-tf~IL'' b.,f.,,·e ·'\\\ inv.-.t <~r stJ\<I·mon<:v. COME lNTO MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! ~ 5?henectady -1041 State Street- 382-5776

' ~) :...I ....... ... : . . , Page 12 • October 2, 1997-·'IDlJc illl1nc~1r~i~nsis - _ Featuwes . . ' ' ON GROWING UP, RuNNING MILES, AND Things I L.ike/Love About SoME OTHER SENTIMENTAL THINGS '''Union-the Great•·• by Michelle Tham Features Editor_ When I was in high school, I r-an away from home over a dozeri times. I was never really sur'e when;! I was going, and when I \ran\ aw.ay from home, l usually was honestly running~ sneakers and all. Heart pounding, I would run until I cot~ldn;t breathe any:- moJ:e and my legs couldn't seem · to pu:sh a step further. T~en _I would sit on a curb, on Jhe c~.ol grass, wherever I s_eemed to end up and convince myself to calm down and eventuaHy walk b~ck _ home. My parents and 1 fought. We screamed and yelled, and J cried,. and then my mother usually cried after. There was no such thing as compromise in my home. At least that is how I always saw it, with me the helpless, innocentgirlliv~ ing under the wrath of some com- munist, oppressive household. Be- cause of this, because of my fatally warped view of my home life, l ran away into the comforting arms of the cold night wh~n I should have learned how to hold a rational con- versation and make a sensible ar- ·, gument. _ There was this burden on my shoulders. I was Chinese. I was dif- ferent. My brother and I weren't supposed to watch TV for more than two hours a day. We would anyway, listening for that buzz of the automatic garage door open- ing (signaling that our parents were home from work) so that we could quickly shut off the television and run upstairs to our waiting setups of open books-~aU t() create the facade that we had been studying for hours. My parents fell for it, until my dad started feeling the back of the TV set to see if it was still warm. There was no mention ofthe word NintelJ-dO under my parents' roof. We were only allowed to eat candy. on Saturdays and drink see it then? Did T e.ve'n realize it? · · Smelly. · .. , ,· s~da on special occasions. I had - .No, .I don't think so. I never re- · by Mtttt Aronowitz · · · . · The forever-r()sonating sound of to get straight A's. There were no aliz~d- what a -sp()iled brat I was. · · $(aff Writer · · . the Dave Matthews Ban4 .. :the excuses. My p,arents let me play the vio!in, · _ fact that· there is no' straight con- - So, my ~hildhood was sort of paid thousands of dollars for me·· · ' Howzit goin~ll've eompi'led a· . crete path t(j) any bnportant place _ different from most of my friends, . to own a beautifully carved piece . ' list fi<vt1 my personal stash of the· on cam:pus: . childhoods. I watched as they of wood that 1 threw obstinately: thin_gs tba,t m~ke:-~ur·~c;hi)ol the Thefreshmenthathavediedfor planned sleep-overs and after- undet my bed. ·They gave methe . gFeates( Itis uP, t~ :You; le:lt_ow our sins.;. procrastination ... get- school get-togethers (filled with chance to learn a sweet language · ·. reader;. to. find .wh~re: tne ~ar9asf!l ting carded at fratern:ities .. ·. the sandy and all the soda they. thatfallsinsoftsylb:iblesandquiet. lies. ·oh~heforeyo~accl]$eme9f. poopth&tgrows.outofthelawnof wantecr; qf course). They. turned. pauses. Th~y kept me from being • ~inti eking the-fab}~dThur-beiry,-~lle· West Be.ach in tlte. sptingtitne .. : 16. and. got BMW's and gold . addicted tC? il colt>rful box that Top Ten ~I:Ast;r¢rJiembet;:·tn~~e. 1~. ·.the striGtly. enfurced 2:(10 A.M. nameplates with diamonds to dot made. sounds.--and Ue.d ·about the < no set nombe:u and·some ofth;ese;. r:nle: .• World- War 11.1 ..• the in- the \i's\. B;s _and C's werejust . waytif~·;as sJ;Ipp~~ed,~o~e. They_·: axen.'tsMJi aiids\Veet.- -:· : ·_. ·'. :trirts!~ smell~fWestDining Ha:ll. fine for their- parents, and they believed in my mind and th_e sue.,. . ... SQ-,:the greatthin:gs:ah()ut:;l:Jlt:ion.: •. that really hot security ·guard even had cable television. cess I could a:~hiev.e with a push · College:~re ~ -~ ;~/;.;::~.:-.<- , ,: :,_,,~.~-: · : wit}l. the· leather jacket ~nd ·the It was black and wh,ite as I saw · frpm them; A push l ne.eded be;:- ·• - the ;~ottle· q_epilsit. q~n)~~~.:th~:,~)v~ip••- :.~ :. _ · · . ·_ -· · . .it. I was livingin a dressed-up! ex- -cause l had always been stubborn ' '_Sk.ella:r~~ }v.!tidl. neve{ Jets.- ;ycmr KA 'Fr-iday iljght· dinners •.. . cuse for a happy home. 'I was 'liv- and didn't belle:ve in studying.' dropped bottle break .. Ii just_ffl_li:l(~i;. Coffee House .. ·. free condoms . ing in a prison. So, Parent's Weekend is here. . that conk sound; .atthe :coll~gec.<m- .. the roving, roller-.blading gangs · My friends became my surro- Thc:tt makes me smile. I get to see ter wben-.you 're ~h¢'ckjng your e.,. . . . the fact that every other day . gate parents, knowing when I my mom and d!td and tisten to. , tn:ail, yeu.press \.f'; an_(l>y(mt.se6fet. that I -che~k my vaiee rriaiT I:he&r needed a placeto rest myhead~and tfem tell me storie_s about their • \other:' lifecdisapp~arsbefbre·y()~r that _idiotic .comp~ter voice say, just close my eyes quietly. I cried · lives when I am not there. I know eye~ in a jumble of nutnbet~ and \Do you real-ly need to talk real . more in my junior andsenior years- it's probably·lessstressful without . letters; the facttha.tl· cari lea¥¢ aU ' time to_wcaller , ~ . \ .. ·. the ·thing ofhigh school than most do in a ·me ru:ound stirring up the. house mylights,appHances, sex:ualt~ys,. •- tnatwldothe stu.ffwitJt;:. hav- lifetime; and I kept that sense of and fighting forrny idea of picture etc: on, constantl),; an<i .pay th~. ing t~-sp'onsible people in charge melancholic melodrama until my perfect. i like to know that they • · same tuition as a conservationist· of finances ...... the cupola on top freshman year here, when l real.- ·miss .me, though~ And I !iketo.tell who doesn't. · , . - of.YuhnanTheaterthatoverlooks.: . ized that my Jife at home wasn't them 'that I love rny violin or that I Reside.nce Life .. ; _ _ ·· theentiie ca~ntry ~ .. the \Pedes'- as terrible as I had always seen it. got an A on an exa~ or that I • ,It's pretty strang~ that every - ·tri~ Walkway.'' . . I realized that other people's haven't watched TV in ·so long · male math professor ;is- either a . Opening your mailbox and-fin d.- parents weren'ttheg.listening pic- sinceJ'd rather go running. A nice 60's bumoutor·a]?ald Klil}go_n,; ... ing a big·whopp.ing nothing-. :·. ·tures of perfection thaU had al- . run, when the~inc;lwhipsmyhair .. that big fat, guy at West; • . .1~_r¥ --·opeping'y<!urrnaiJboxand·finding.: ways envisioned. They yelled too in black streaksfhroughtheair... ·se-x-. .. oral sex from that big' fat· a card that says, \A Package For and fought and cried~ even. ln my and I am running for distanoe, to ·.·guy at W esf. . You, You're So Cool!.\ .. , , Rush. desperation for getting my way ·make my heart pound. I'm not run:· The joys ofmo<l.eration. Being here o:ver a year and still and living what I thought to be a nlng away from anything. · The \ex\ in·ex-roomm;:1te ... the not knowing hew to use c_all wait-. \normal life,\ l overlooked one I tell them aH these things; I · tripp-ing bush ... the ethnic diver- ing. little detail. There was no such share my life with the only people sity (sic} ... the great social a:lt:er~ - Stalking. thing as normal. ~: that love me more than I can un- natives ... that spot at upper-class That really weird guy at Dutch. Every home, every family lives derstand, that love me so much that where you can launch projectiles .. Gen Ed; .. the fact that certain under a different set of conditions. they clo.se th~ir ears when I tell at the .unsuspecting Reamer table pyople on camp.us pay money so I I am a first g~neration American. them that I hate them because they · vendors. can drink for free ... writing this My childhood was marked by the know l haven't done enough Social smok~.rs ... Jac.kso:n's article ·atthree in the morning. demanding cadence oftest scores growing up yet to realize what garden at night ... the old lady at If you feel that I have left an'y~ ' and report cards. I played the vio- horrible words those are. Love me the convenience-store .... cover- thing out, drop me .a line at Box lin because I was forced to, be- so much that they would pay a ri- ing your body with gb.ie and ron~ · #0040, and I'll use it for my next cause it was supposed to help me diculous. su111 of money to let me ingaround in those huge-dirt piles . ~'arti~le\ entitied\Easy Cop-Outs get into college. I was dragged go to college. And all I can do in . , . naked Nott -crawls .. ·. the ru~ · To Writing an _Article.\ . lifelessly to Chinese school on return, the only thing I can think mor~ill .. : goods from the Uni~ By the way; lmadesomeofth_is Sundays to learn about a language of doing, ·is to speak to them in my . versity ofVerrtwnt .... khaki shorts stuff up, so don 1 t feel confused. that I despised because I only Americanized Mandarin Chinese . ; . the guythat everypne.calls Mr. Just laugh. heard it when I was being repri- so that my parents can hear my j--.-__.,_ ______ _.__;;__ _______ ~---=------ manded. That was my life. Did I · voice; and smile., . Riding the Parents by Eugene D. Schultz Staff Writer · Career Panel As quickly as the Muse ofcre- ativity came to me last week, .she was just as quick to leave me star- . ing at a blank computer screen this week. For any of you who have writ- . ten a paper and have had the· Muse leave you, then you understan_d where I am coming. from. Yet my article for this week has nothing to do with Muses; writing papers, nor the art of bufls@#ting. This ·week is dedicated to the only 16- sided building I know of, the Nott Memorial. of course everyone's favorite place to take a nap .. Yes, -that is right I said the best place to take a nap:..- not study, but take a ril:ip. Think of plush chairs, sofas, and that tem- perature--just warm enough to c;mse o'ne's eyes to shut. If you go up there on any give~ d;1y you can find a,t least one person asleep~ · Thirdly,-the Nott is th-e center of ·.nakedness· for upstate New Yotk. People who don't evengo here are drawn to the Nott: they feel com- pelled to take of their clothes and Sat., Oct. 4th, Hale House· llam -12noon Parents in Finance, Medicine, .Unv, and Science fields will provide valuable career advice and tips. •, ' Co-Sponsored by the Career Development Centel and Parents Council To us here at Union, the Nott . stands before us much in the same way that a lighthouse would stand before lost ships too close to shore. Every weekend and' on some weeknights, the Nott stands as a fixture telHng all that no matter how drunk they ru:e, once they find me Nott, it- is only a hop skip and a jump home. The second duty of the Nott is · run as naked as the (lay they were born. Not that I have a problem with naked people. Well, 1-like na~ ked women better, but you can't limit wh'o 'runs around the Nott naked. Or can we? Lastly, the_N~tt,represents the . mother of us c;tll. Why?, do you ask? Well, it's because il'l anyone's reality, it is truly a giant nipple . Editor's Note: Eugene Is _an aspiring writer who wishes to re-. ceivegreat amounts of women's clothing for his tollection. Send an items to box #1975. I ·,,

. ' • • INEERING • MECHANICAL ENGINEERING • MAT When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytlleon. Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower- together, Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems and Raytheon Tl Systems are driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. At Raytheon you'll take technology- and your career- io the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at www. rayiobs.com . YOU DEMAND POWER SPEED, AND MOBILITY. Save another Sso cash back* Colt>r StyteWrioo ... 4500 Power Macintosh* 6500/300 64/t 1 GB/12XCD/33·6 Modem Multiple Scan 15AV/l2/Zip Orive/Kbd Now $3,199 (or $s9Jmonth)~ IIUOR£ REBAlt 300 cash back* ~QW $319~ 9Ef(J>!E lffillllE 200 WANT SOME CASH TO GO WITH THAT? Power8ook*t4ooc/166 t6/2G8/8XCO/L2/11.3• TFT display NOW $3,:1!3~ (Ot $6o,fmonth)*\ BEFORE RWTE cash back* Now ls the right time ta get an Apple Power Macintosh or PowerBook. Because in addition to getting the computer that lets you do more than you can imagine, you can save.big time. For a limited tirne, students are eligible for special cash rebates. *This Is a limited time rebate coupon offer. See your Apple umpus reseller today for complete details. Contact Charles Bosworth at Union College BookStore Reamer Campus Center, 2nd Floor Hours: Monday thru Friday 8:45 • 4:30 &. Saturday u:oo • 3:00 (518) 388·6188 http://chet.ocs.unfon.edu/PUBtiC/BOOKSTORE/compsoft.htm email: boswortc@union.edu Power\ Macintosh• 4J+00/200 Small Business p/2GB/12XCP/Multlple Scan 15/IV/b. 33.6 ModemjMicrosoft Office/Kbd NOW $1.,999 (Or $37/mOntll)** WORE RW\Tt •\• 100 cash back* .. olr~r e:qolres O.:tob<r to, 1991. No P.iV\>~nl oil\'\\' will be ~ul,..d lor 9<> dovs. rnte,.tf awuln1 durtnc the 91'-day ~riod will b< ad.Std to tt~ prln,tpal and will be.r lntttest. wltlth will be Included In the rt~P<Ivmtnt schti!UI•. For • ...,.,,;>~<!, rht '\\~'~ or 1o1>y >· •sw. h>d •• ,,, .. ,,....t •at• of 1 2. 4 o%: with 1n Awn,.s~l Petcent.ltt R:att (APR} of 13Jlt%. A mo\'t\'tv pavrnent of SsB-9'6 for thifo Power Madntosh 6ijoo/)OO ~~t~m is a-n t~ln\3tt ba~d on a total loan am~nt of 11.404.)6. whlth !nc.lud~s. a UMfJte: purc~ut prlcf of $}.1~ and .:t 6~ IQ.1n ori&inarto. n '''i rnwe-.11~ ... l!l~llbl~ baR'O an the Prl..., Rot., •• ,.portO<! on the ~th bu>lnMs d•y ol t~• month In Th~ W~ll Sn.-et loum.11 plu• a sprud ol J·~ tilt AI>P'•\Compulfr l~n has •\ S·yo., loan ttrm with no\ P\'P•Y\'tnl ptnalty and Is $ubjt(l I~ e~lt op-pr~>VaL MOnthly paY'nWI> ·••ov \\'Y dtoen• 1 on a<IUJitomputo• ,.,. ltm prl<.t<, IOMI lo•n bm~unts, .tow ~ll<l lout salps to•c;s and a chango In tl1* lfl<l~t~lv varf..lbl• lnl~l~l rate. ewn Aj)pt• Compu!Alr, l•c.. All tights res~rwd. A~pt~. I~ Applt lo£0, Mae, 1.\tti~tosh, PovtetBoiJk, l't.wor M.lclnto¥1> •nd Slyi•Writer ttt rqW~ t\l<l<• • · I \t Apol• (O<mpu\\- In< O••Seann~r 4nd Qui<kTak~ ~re toadem•rlts or llpt>fe Coropultt, Inc. Aj>ple \\'II In rtbat< o~r volld fro\' July u. 1!/9/lhraUfh Oaobtr '\' 1991 • .,.lillr ••POii~$1Ut ~nd subject to avarl~b!Uty. Void where prohibited bv law. Ste P••tldp~~tlns rtSdltr tor ~11lter rules and • t .. All Ma<int.,~• .omp\t\ ~\ ••• dHlJnod to bt acc-lt>lt to indlvld•afs w!lh dfS<Iblllt~ To l•arn mo~ (IJ.S. only), all 8oo1iw-78<l8 or TTV ~•1'5$o060!. ••

•. Rating System (How much to pay to see it) Full Price Matinee Price Rent It Wait for Late Night TV THEPEACEMAKER Staring: George Clooney Nicole Kidman Rene Medvesek Marcel lures Rating: Matinee Price and a small popcorn In a remote mountainous region in Russia, two trains are heading on a collision course. One train is carrying passengers. The other is transporting ten nuclear weapons, en route to be dismantled as part of the START nuclear weapon treaty. Seconds after the crash, a 75-kiloton nuclear blast devastates the rural area, p.lacing the world's governments em high alert. When it is learned that nine of the ten weapons are missing, a worldwide man hunt is launched. Thus be- gins Dreamwork Picture's action- adventure film, The Peacemaker. Nuclearscientist Dr. Julia Kelly (Nicole Kidman) is the acting head of the White House NuclearSmug- gling Group. Kelly hypothesizes that this must have been an act of terrorism, because the chances ·of the weapon exploding as a result of the crash are highly unlikely. However, she does not have a clue as to which terrorist group and why. This brings in Colonel Tho- mas Devoe (George Clooney), who explains that the blast was not an act of terrorism, but a diversion cre- ated to enable the stealing of nine nuclear weapons. Devoe and Kelly combine for the hunt for the missing weapons, a hunt that takes them all over the world. Often during the chase, their ideologies and ethics clash. Devoe, a United States Army Spe- cial Forces Intelligence Officer, ts used to doing things his own way, HOW DO YOU GET THE WORLD'S ATTENT'ION? which involves bribery, coercion, and violence. Kelly, a \Blue- blooded Yale Graduate\ according to Devoe, has never been outside her academic world. Devoe at- tempts to make her see things as he does: nuclear weapons are miss- ing and any method necessary must be used to discover where they are. The movie is skillfully crafted, but at the same time very predict- able. It runs like most other action adventure movies: the good guys chase the bad guys, the bad guys get away, and the good guys find the bad guys, even though the odds are as good as finding a needle in a haystack. Don't get us wrong--it is agreatmovie, with in- tense chase scenes and much ac- tion. It is just a bit predictable. The Peacemaker has many plugs for products. The best plug scene is where Devoe and Kelly, while driving in a Mercedes, crash up not one, not two, but three BMWs. Imagine what Mercedes had to pay to get that on the big screen. We are going to buy one right now. Not to be outdone, America On- Line gets its name on the big screen, and once again we are asked to suspend our disbelief. You have to wait an hour just to get on-line from the states, let alone to get secret Russian Mafia files .from Vienna. ***** In this film, George Clooney re- turns to the big screen following his run as the Caped CFusader in Joel Schumacher's Batman and Robin. Since The Peacemaker was shot in June and July, Clooney was not forced to split his time between \ this fi;Jm and NBC's hitdramaE:R; as he was for the Bc~tman movie. This provided him sufficient time to concentrate on his role as Colo- nel Thomas Devoe. He gives a believable perfor- mance, which reinsures that his film days are not numbered following the Batman and Robin debacle. Clooney is teamed up with an- other veteran of a Joel Schumacher Batman movie, Nicole Kidman. Kidman is as beautiful as ever and is always a pleasure to watch, even if her character was a bit annoy- ing. Rene Medvesek (General Vlado) makes his American screen debut, but he is no stranger to the world of film. He won the Best Actor A ward in Croatia three times,. be- ginning in 1991 at the Sarajevo Film Festival, again in 1992 for Vladimir Najor, an<l.in 1993 for Gratis. He is joined by distinguished Romanian actor Marcel lures {Dusan), who played supporting roles in both Interview with the Vampire and Mission: Impassible. The Peacemaker is Dreamworld ;Pictute' s debut movie. The studio's brain power is the com- bined efforts of Speilberg, Katzenberg, and Geffen. This team of creative geniuses reveals that .we wi11 be reviewing many more fine films from the company. ***** Quick note: we gave this movie a rating of \Matinee Price with a Small Popcorn.\ To avoid any con- fusion, we would like to explain this rating. Since we are rating on the price that we would pay to see the movie, it is hard to give something the equivalent of, say, 3 Yz stars. Since this wasa.really good movie, but not a must-see, we cannot give it the ultimate rating of\ Full Price,\ but it was better than a \Matinee Price.\ This presented a problem, so we decided that we would throw in the small popcorn as our \12 star rating. .Jazz Lives on at Coffee House by Leane Serratore Contributing Writer Something is very alive at Union College--something that is very old in style but filled with young blood. On Thursday, September 23, a · split-off of the Union College Jazz Ensemble took the stage atthe Cof- fee House. Students and others braved the long hike up campus to support the group. The group started a little bit af- . ter 9:00 PM and performed for dose to two hours. Almost every- thing they played was improvi- sational, since the sheet music is a mere skeleton of what the lis- teners actually hear. Students were very responsive to this music. Illness and injury could not prevent students from at- tending the performance. For what more could anyone ask? The ensemble members in- clude Roger Noyes on lead guitar, Brian and Scott Gilman on trumpet and tenor saxophone, respectively, and Garret Brown on drums. \Where is the bassist?,\ one might ask. Unfortunately, the band did not arrive with their own bassist. Not to fear! They asked the crowd to produce one, and by popular demand, a very ner- vous Jeff\Sprocket\ Fawcett took the stage, but only after running back to his room to get his own bass Roger, a sophomore, hates the music of our generation. \Then I started listening to classic rock I ike Neil Young and Jimi Hendrix and found that their roots started in jazz.\ He has been playing guitar now for about four years. When asked ifhe considered pursuing a music career, Roger responded that he probably would not. \Music is my hobby. To make it a career would be to make it work, and that wouldn't be fun anymore.\ His friend Chip Crary disagreed with a laugh, \I know he wants to be the next Jimi Hendrix .... \ With a chuckle, Roger replied \I want to say something profound, but I can't think of anything.\ Brian, a senior, has been playing trumpet for 15 years. \My father was a jazz drummer,\ he says,\ ... I was destined to play jazz music.\ Althoug he does not plan on a musical career either, he did state, \Tim Olsen is the most rockin' jazz pianist I know. He taught me ev- erything lknow.\ Congratulations, Professor Olsen. You have taught this man well. As for the show itself, it was ter- rific. The music ranged from up- beat to mellow in tempo. Each mem- ber played solo and collectively. Draco may have said it best with\ ... it's loungemusicthatmakes me want to wear velvet.\ Well, break out your velvet, Draco, because it looks like the Jazz Ensemble will he playing around campus in the future. As of right now, the only performance that is scheduled will be at the end of the term. If your organization is inter- ested in the ensemble playing at a particular function, contact Profes- sor Olsen in the Performing Arts Department. p e 0 il

HOW DO YOU GET THE WORLD'S ATTENTION? Rating System (How much to pay to see it) Full Price Matinee Price Rent It Wait for Late Night TV THE PEACEMAKER Staring: George Clooney Nicole Kidman Rene Mcdvesek Marcel lures Rating: Matinee Price and a small popcorn In a remote mountainous region in Russia, two trains are heading on a coli is ion course. One train is carrying passengers. The other is transporting ten nuclear weapons, en route to be dismantled as part of the START nuclear weapon treaty. Seconds after the crash, a 75-ki loton nuclear blast devastates the rural area, placing the world's governments on high alert. When it is learned that nine of the ten weapons are missing, a worldwide man hunt is launched. Thus be- gins Dreamwork Picture's action- adventure film, The Peacemaker. Nuclear scientist Dr. Julia Kelly (Nicole Kidman) is the acting head of the White House Nuclear Smug- gling Group. Kelly hypothesizes that this must have been an act of terrorism, because the chances of the weapon exploding as a result of the crash are highly unlikely. However, she does not have a clue as to which terrorist group and why. This brings in Colonel Tho- mas Devoe (George Clooney), who explains that the blast was not an act of terrorism, but a diversion cre- ated to enable the stealing of nine nuclear weapons. Devoe and Kelly combine for the hunt for the missing weapons, a hunt that takes them all over the world. Often during the chase, their ideologies and ethics clash. Devoe, a United States Army Spe- cial Forces Intelligence Officer, IS used to doing things his own way, , ; ·;- - ':,~~f~.:::::~:--~~->0~:~-~~:::;\_:),:-~·. ,:.:· y· ·--s;': .• ·-· _ .. _:,:;;'*\r~~~-- .. -.n~l-i._·_;~;,:·_ ·:, ;·r~'\.:.~t:,-\·~:.~;+=? . IPaint~ H~rnl:lt\il1 tv,lun;gau.wiltvieijPJ:t)i(,)qr :~11@ vy. ·: 111 i:lit\el~u \-~·-'*·about liefworkafl .. . :>~~:-~l-i?·;:?=~::· -; -~~;/;;L'·:i~;_: Friday, October 3 ·· · Jazz l~gendS Herbie Hancock and Wayne S~1orter will petfoq:n : ·showtime is at 8 PM. For tickets, · · · t,~~li.,·JY.,'t~:-f.l&. . :--:~-~--~;.~~~~-:~:f.,~ ._ >--,:: .,_~ -=- - ~- .. -; -.~ \ ,~_- ·-- : :-_ • ': _, <:~~-~<~ :5-~;~{:?~~:~~·r:.~- , -~ • ' f-- .. i • . tSaturUa::\1 October4 _ . . . ; .··· · __ , extraordinaire Bela Fleck teams up with g. uit~~st/m9fl~lqli .... ,..~~ .. Meyer in the acoustic music series opeuer to be .b~ldatthe. The concert will showcase original mu$ic, a mix of~l4:t~!iass! ~~~i<J; 8 PM. For tickets, call (518) 27.3~0038 or any'ficketri\?§~er::()ut)et. · which involves bribery, coercion, and violence. Kelly, a \Blue- blooded Yale Graduate\ according to Devoe, has never been outs ide her academic world. Devoe at- tempts to make her see things. as he does: nuclear weapons are miss- ing and any method necessary must be used to discover where they are. The movie is skillfully crafted, but at the same time very predict- able. It runs like most other action adventure movies: the good guys chase the bad guys, the bad guys get away, and the good guys find the bad guys, even though the odds are as good as finding a needle in a haystack. Don't get LIS wrong--it is a great movie, with in- tense chase scenes and much ac- tion. It is just a bit predictable. The Peacemaker has many plugs for products. The best pi ug scene is where Devoe and Kelly, while driving in a Mercedes, crash up not one, not two, but three BMWs. Imagine what Mercedes had to pay to get that on the big screen. We are going to buy ()ne right now. Not to be outdone, America On- Line gets its name on the big screen, and once again we are , .. ,· :· . . : :, · ·. · ::·;·,~·iv;~i~!:;:··\\''\·~~~~\:tL\' :.!,·;~2;:i:··,lL ,t . Wednesdayt0ctober8 . ,,, ......... ,.;;,,i,:::.:,,, ·\, , ... ,,,-. ,,~ ..... ,. Po~t an~ fiction writer Paul Metcalf~lf:rad~o~~~~;~?r:~~~~~~.~~i~~an~ f~~~t!l~tn!~-7\1~\;enter, Umvers1ty at Albany•s uptown campq$., ,HeJs,t9~- gr~~t~gr~®OJL . . . ' ' - '·;j'* ld; <!~\'\'' ~~ blends historical and literary text,With hi!! owp. P,<!~IQJ~.~~d,P,f;O.~e-: Writerslnstituteat(518)442~5620 •. · ·'· · ·.'::'.:; .. ::,,.'·'''-:'\ _ .. • '> '. :. ~ ••. ;~,~ ,,. ' '\ \. Saturday~ Nove~ber 1 The Mighty Mighty tlosstones u ... ., ... ,.,. at 8 PM, .For 1 ooo. 'rhe tict(et}?rice i· asked to suspend our disbelief. You have to wait an hour just to get on-line from the states, let alone to get secret Russian Mafia files from Vienna. ***** In this film, George Clooney re- turns to the big screen following his run as the Caped Crusader in Joel Schumacher's Batman and Robin. Since The Peacemaker was shot in June and July, Clooney was not forced to split his time between this film and NBC's hit drama ER, as he was for the Batman movie. This provided him sufficient time to concentrate on his role as Colo- nel Thomas Devoe. He gives a believable perfor- mance, which reinsures that his film days are not numbered following the Batman and Robin debacle. Clooney is teamed up with an- other veteran of a Joel Schumacher Butman movie, Nicole Kidman. Kidman is as beautiful as ever and is always a pleasure to watch, even if her character was a bit annoy- ing. Rene Medvesek (General Vlado) makes his American screen debut, but he is no stranger to the world of film. He won the Best Actor Award in Croatia three times, be- ginning in 1991 atthe Sarajevo Film Festival, again in 1992 for Vladimir Najar, and in 1993 for Gratis. He is joi,l'led by distinguished Romanian actor Marcel lures (Dusan), who played supporting roles in both Interview with the Vampire and Mission: Impossible. The Peacemaker is Dreamworld Picture's debut movie. The studio's brain power is the com- bined efforts of Speilberg, Katzenberg, and Geffen. This team of creative geniuses reveals that we will be reviewing many more fine films from the company. ***** Quick note: we gave this movie a rating of \'Matinee Price with a Small Popcorn.\ To avoid any con- fusion, we would like to explain this rating. Since we are rating on the price that we would pay to see the movie, it is hard to give something the equivalent of, say, 3 1;2 stars. Since this was a really good movie, but not a must-see, we cannot give it the ultimate rating of\Full Price,\ but it was better than a \Matinee Price.\ This presented a problem, so we decided that we would throw in the small popcorn as our 1 /1 star rating. Jazz Lives on at Coffee House by Leane Serratore Contributing Writer Something is very alive at Union I Colle~e--something that is vel\· old I in style but filled w~h young biood. On Thursday, September 23, a split-off of the Union College Jazz Ensemble took the stage at the Cof- fee House. Students and others bravt:d the long hike up campus to support the group. i The group started a littk bit af- ter 9:00 PM and performed for close to two hours. Almost every- ! thing they played was impro\>i- 1 sationaL ~ince the ~beet mu~1c 1~ a mt:n.: skeleton of what thL·li~­ teners actually hear. Students were very responsive to this music. Illness and injury could not prevent students from at- 1 tending the performance. For what I 1 more could anyone ask? I The ensemhle memhers in- clude Roger Noyes on lead guitar. Brian and Scott Gilman on trumpet and tenor saxophone, · resprctivel:y, and Garret Bro\\Tl I on drums. \Where is the ha<;sist'~,\ one might ask. Unfortunately, the band did not arrive with their ov.n bassist. Not to fear! They asked the crowd to produce one, and by popular demand, a very ner- vous Jeff\Sprocket\ Fawcett took the stage, but only after running back to his room to get his pwn bass Roger, a sophomore, hates thl' music of our generation. \TIH:n I 1 started listening to classic rock I ikl' i Neil Young and Jimi Hendrix and found that their roots started in jazz.\ He has been playing guitar now for about four years. When asked if he considered pursuing a mtJsic career. Roger responded that he probably would not. \Music is my hobby. To make it a career would be to make it work, and that wouldn't be fun anymore.\ His friend Chip Crary disagreed with a laugh, \I know he wants to be the next Jimi Hendrix .... \ With a chuckle, Roger replied \I want to say something profound, but I can \t think of anything.\ Brian, a senior, has been playing trumpet lor 15 years. \My father \1- a:, aja.t.L drummer, .. he says,·· ... I was destined to play jazz music ... A lthoug he does not plan on a musical career either. he did state, \Tim Olsen is the most rockin' jazz pianist I know. He taught me ev- erything I know.\ Congratulations. Professor Olsen. You have taught this man well. As for the show itself, it waster- rific. The music ranged from up- h:at to rndlmv in tl·mpo. Each mem- ber played solo and collectively. Draco may have said it best with·· . it's lounge music that makes me \\ant to wear velvet.\ Well. break out your velvet, Draco, hecause it looks like the Ja?.z Ensemble will be playing around campus in the future. As of right no\v, the only performance that is schduled wi II be at the end of the tcnn If your organization is intcr- t:~ted in the ensemble playing at a particular function, contact Profes- sor Olsen in the Performing Arts Department. i j I

I r I Arts & Entertainment · · . . '<.TII7c. <llol~tm·:Vfe:ttl;lis • October 2, 1997 • .. P~ge lS. ' . . . , Together Again: Formicans Reunion byMaura Wittbold Contributing Writer They are back. After a briefone- ter:m hiatus, the stars ofthe Union smash hit Tales of the Lost Formicans--Lori Greene '00, Kim- berly Rohback '00, and the great Allison Evans '98--return. The Mountebank's Night of Cocktails will provide a showcase for the Formican girls to perform together again under the direction of Jennifer Roberts '-00. The group will be performing a scene from T.S. Eliot's The Cocktail Party. \I am thrilled to be back and working with two of the most brilliant and talented individuals this school has to offer. This show will be a second chance te combine our cre- ative efforts and reinvent the magic of Tales of the Lost Formicans that Barry K. Smith instilled in us,\ says Greene about the reunion. Evans' theatrical experience at Union began with her role as the nurse in Equus, during fall term of '96. She then starred·as Cathy in Formicans, whic:h co-starred Greene as Cathy's eccentric best friend Judy and Rohback as her mother Evelyn. · During spring term, Rohback and Greene performed in William Finlay's production of Blood Wed- ding, under the direction ofMogan Hargrove in '97. Greene also per- formed in \In Your Face Theater\ Three girls, one passion•-theater (File Photo/ The Concordiensis) irt a scene from Catch 22, directed by Alex Beckers '98. · While all three performed the same evening, they expressed dis- tress at not acting together. The gir:Js had never met before Formicans, but they worked well together and become good friends. Throughout six weeks of re- hearsal, the actresses supported each other on and off the stage, trusted each other, and on occa- sion screamed their lines acrdss the balcony ofthe YuJman Theater. The reason that they work so well together is the tremendous amount of respect that they have for their work and for the bond they created during hours of re- hearsal. Greene recalls a memory that exemplifies this bond. During the run of Formicans, she midnight phone call to Evans, whom she considers to be her mentor: Greene had been upset by a very difficult rehearsal, and she cried for hours while Evans provided support and constant encouragement. \that I think, was the turning point inollr relationship\ says Greene. The cast of Tales included seven talented young men and three bril- liant young women, all consumed by one passion. Greene, Evans, and Rollback are looking forward to workin~to­ gether again and hope to perform a wonderful reunion show. Ev<Lns will be graduating this sprin.g, aud Rohback and Greene plant() c.any on this successful bond. A Sassy Alternative to the Real World CDC Updates ••• by Lori Greene A& EEditor As many seniors rush around to the CDC and career festivals, try- ing to find prestigious jobs in con- sulting firms or applying to law and medical schools, an entire field of study is being overlooked by many Union Students. Records show that last year only four Union students applied to film or television school for advanced graduate degrees. Careers in the television and movie industry are extremely high paying, mind challenging, and award great fame. So, it comes as a surprise that more Union students are not seeking acceptance in some of the top film schools in the country. While Union does not offer un- dergraduate degrees in film or tele- vision, the world of graduate schools is full of hundreds of pro- grams available to students of all undergraduate backgrounds. Just to give you an idea of the various programs out there, here is a brief synopsis of several graduate pro- grams. Schools such as New York Uni- versity, Columbia University, Uni- versity ofCalifomia at Los Ange- les, and University ofTexas at Aus- tin offer Masters and Doctorate programs in television and film, as well as in the fields of writing and producing. At NYU, theDepartmentofCin- ema studies focuses on processes of understanding film and moving images. The program specializes in the history, theory, aesthetics, and illusions of film and moving im- ages. · Colombia's Master of Fine Arts (MFA) program trains students in skills needed to become screen- writers, directors, producers, film historians, and critics. The program offers a course of study that inte- grates theory and practice, in- structing students in the creative · process, technical skills, and film history. The program is designed to as- VJsit our web site at h ttp://www.union.edu/career/cddcdc.htJnl. for all the latest events. RESUME REFERRAL DEAD LINE: Friday, Oct. 3 for LOCKHEED MARTIN, liS. PARENTS* COUNCIL CAREER PANEL Saturday, Oct. 4 in Hale House Dining Room at llam •• Panelists will disciJS& careers in finance, Jaw, medicine, and science. sist the student in finding his or TIPS FROM WALL STREET her persona] vision and to help him Saturday, Oct. 4 In .lhle House Dining Room at 4pm - Alwnni will discll~ or her express the vision fully. careers in the financial district and how to sulX:essfully interview and network. UCLA's graduateprogram offers the MFA in production/directing, SALES PROCRAM PANEL tile MFA in screenwriting as well Tuesday, Oct. 7 at 8prn ··Alumni will discuss career opportunities in sale( as the MFA in animation. marketing and interviewing techniques. This program also works with students on developing their own RECRUITING MEETIN' niche in the w01;ld of film and tele- Wednesday, Oct. 8 at 4pm or 8pm at the CDC --If you submitted resumesf« vision. They focus on the creative on-campus recruiting, come to this meeting to lind out the next steps in there· process as well as the production cruiting process. aspects. At UT-Austin, programs are of- CO .. OP OPPORTUNITIES fered in radio, television and film. liM is curenlly seeking students for co-op pcsitions in semi-conductor resear.cll An MA and a Ph.D. are offered. and development. TheresumedeadlineisFrlday,Oct.lOth. The program specializes in inter- Cl is currendybiring for winleNpring co-op positklns. All intet-ested stucltlll$ • national communications, critical ~sb;;ou;;ld;;·;;su;bm;· iiitiiiaiiresiiiumiieiianiiidiitr'dll;;scn;';pt;to;;lh;e;C;DC;;b;y;M;o;nd;a;;y;,. Oc;;t;.1;;3;. ;;;;;;; and cultural studies, ethnic and p ;:::::::~·~:~~:~~:~:::~ Babysitter Needed!!! sexuality, issues in film, and sc~~:~~~~~t~ and curriculum are Niskayuna Couple Seeks Female College committed to providing an envi- Student to Watch Two Small Children, ro.nment in which graduate stu- dents receive optimal opportuni- One Night Per Week ties to teach, study, conduct re- search, and produce overall ere- 3 7 7-1 · 31 fJ.s For D ativework. llllliiiiliiMilililiilliilliliililiiiiMiiililiillliiliiiiB•••••iil The Liberating Gesture Compiled by: Maura Wittbold A&E Staff Writer Daniel Barrett--\The Liberat- ing Gesture\ Mandeville Gallery Sour£e: Sara Ericson, Director, Mandeville Gallery Although this exhibition spans 40 years of object-making by a pro- lific artist, its intention is not to serve as a retrospective. The fo- cus is, rather, on examining the rapid growth in the artist's devel- opment over the last decade and on bri11ging together for the first time three distinct genres of his production--jewelry, sculpture, and furniture. Daniel Barrett has had a long, distinguished, and adventurous career. Before settling in New York in 1966, Barrett left his native Ire- land, where he trained as a black- smith, carpenter and silversmith, to study at the University of London and the Slade School of Art. Impa- tient with the limits of an academic environment, Barrett moved to Af- rica, where he traveled extensively. For seven years, Barrett worked as a sculptor and absorbed the source of moderation in tribal art. In 1956 he moved to Brazil in re- sponse to a governmental commis- sion to construct a sculpture for a building designed by Niemeyer in Brasilia. A year later Barrett re- turned to Europe and traveled and worked in Paris, Amsterdam, Frankfurt and London, where he received the 1957 International Jewelry Award. The years between 1961 and 1966 were spent in Israel working on commissions for, among others, the Knesset, the Hadassah Hospi- tal, and the Tel Aviv Hilton. Almost immediately upon his arrival in New York City in 1996, Barrett was recognized as a major talent. His first exhibition was at the Museum of Modern Art in \Jewelry by Contemporary Paint- ers and Sculptors.\ The earliest examples of Barrett's work in this exhibition are in jew- elry. Extraordinary as these works are, within that particular genre of object making, they may also serve as a point of departure in examin- ing some of the sources and chal- lenges in Barrett's sculpture. Barrett's success can be attrib- uted to his struggle to balance two extreme tendencies in his work-- geometric rigor and unfettered biomorphism. Much of Barrett's early work relied heavily on a grid to which elements of various shapes and sizes were added. The earliest sculpture in this exhibition, Crowd Series No. 6, 1988, is in many ways exemplary of those grid works. It relies heavily on geom- etry, with individual elements of stretching, protruding, and nudg- ing. The significance of this work, however, lies in its departure from earlier works. Instead ()[acting as a mere support structure, the grid becomes the main subject matter. The curious aspect of this work is that while it is intensely physi- cal in nature it remains remarkably visual.

e .: j Together Again: Formicans Reunion by Maura Wittbold Contributing Writer They are back. After a brief one- term hiatus, the stars of the Union smash hit Tales of the Lost Forrnicans--Lori Greene '00, Kim- berly Rohback '00, and the great Allison Evans '98--return. The Mountebank's Night of Cocktai Is will provide a showcase for the Formican girls to perform together again under the direction of Jennifer Roberts '00. The group will be performing a scene from T.S. Eliot's Thr.: ( 'ocktail Party. \'I am thrilled to be back and working with two ofthe most brilliant and talented individuals this school has to offer. This show will be a second chance to combine our cre- ative efforts and reinvent the magic of Tofes ()fthe Lost Formicans that Barry K. Smith instilled in us,'' says Greene about the reunion. Evans' theatrical experience at Union began with her role as the nurse in Equus, during fall term of '96. She then starred as Cathy in Formicans, which co-starred Greene as Cathy's eccentric best friend Judy and Rohback as her mother Evelyn. During spring term, Rohback and Greene performed in William Finlay's production of Blood Wed- ding, under the direction ofMogan Hargrove in '97. Greene also per- fanned in \In Your Face Theater\ Three girls, one passion--theater (File Photo/ The Concordiem;is) in a scene from Catch 22, directed The reason that they work so constant encouragement. \That I by Alex Beckers '98. well together is the tremendous think, was the turning point in our While all three performed the amount of respect that they have relationship\ says Greene. same evening, they expressed dis- for their work and for the bond The cast of Tales included seven tress at not acting together. The they created during hours of re- talented young men and three bril- girls had never met before hearsal. Iiant young women, all consumed Formicans, but they worked well Greene recalls a memory that by one passion. together and become good friends. exemplifies this bond. During the Greene, Evans, and Rohback Throughout six weeks of re- run of Formicans, she midnight arelookingfmwardtoworkingto- hearsal, the actresses supported phone call to Evans, whom she gether again and hope to perform each other on and off the stage, considers to be her mentor: Greene a wonderful reunion show. Evans trusted each other, and on occa- had been upset by a very difficult will be graduating this spring, and sion screamed their lines across the rehearsal, and she cried for hours Rohback and Greene plan to carry balcony of the Yulman Theater. while Evans provided support and on this successful bond. A Sassy Alternative to the Real World CDC Updates ••• l>y Lori Greene A & E Editor As many seniors rush around to the CDC and career festivals, try- ing to find prestigious jobs in con- sulting iinns or applying to law and medical schools, an entire field of study is being overlooked by many Union Students. Records show that last year only four Union students applied to film or television school for advanced graduate degrees. Careers in the television and movie industry are extremely high paying, mind challenging, and award great fame. So, it comes as a surprise that more Union students arc not seeking acceptance in some ofthe top film schools in the country. While Union does not offer un- derg,raduatt: degrees in film or tele- vision, tl1e world of graduate schools is full of hundreds of pro- grams available to students of all undergraduate backgrounds. Just to give )OU an idea of the various programs out there, here is a brief synopsis of several graduate pro- grams. Schools such as New York Uni- versity, Columbia University, Uni- versity of California at Los Ange- les, and University ofTexas at Aus- tin offer Masters and Doctorate programs in television and film, as well as in the fields of writing and producing. At NYU, the Department of Cin- ema studies focuses on processes of understanding film and moving images. The program specializes in UNION COLLEGe ureer Development unter Visit our web sHe at http://www.union.edulcareer/cdclcdc.htmJ for all the latest events. RESUME REFERRAL DEADLINE: Friday, Oct. 3 for LOCKHEED MARTIN, EIS. PARENTS' COUNCIL CAREER PANEL Saturday, Oct. 4 in Hale House Dining Room at llam •• Panelists will disclJss careers in finance, law, medicine, and science. TIPS FROM WALL STREET Saturday, Oct. 4 in Hale House Dlning Room at 4pm ·-Alumni will discuss careers in the financial district and how to successfully interview and network. SALES PROGRAM PANEL Tuesday, Oct. 7 at 8pm •• Alumni will discuss career opportunities in sales! marketing and interviewing techniques. Babysitter Needed!!! Niskayuna Couple Seeks Female College Student to Watch Two Small Children, One Night Per Week 377-1331 Ask For Dave The Liberating Gesture Compiled by: Maura Wittbold A&E Staff Writer Daniel Barrett--\'The Liberat- ing Gesture\ Mandeville Gallery Source: Sara Ericson, Director, Mandeville Gallery ~--·----·~-~-. ··--- --- A I though this exhibition spans 40 years ofobject-making. by a pro- lific artist, its intention is not to serve as a retrospective. The fo- cus is. rather. on e:-.arnining the rapid grtm th in the artist·'> Je\ el- opment over the last l.kcade and on bringing together for th~: tiN time tlm.~e distinct genrL·:-. of hi~ product ion--jewt:lr~. ~cu lpture. and furniture. Daniel Barrett has had a long. distinguished, and adventurous career. Before settling in New York in 1966, Barrett left his native Ire- land, where he trained as a black- smith, carpenter and silversmith, to study at the University of London and the Slade School of Art. Impa- tient with the limits of an academic environment, Barrett moved to Af- rica, where he traveled extensively. For seven years, Banett worked as a sculptor and absorbed the source of moderation in tribal art. In 1956 he moved to Brazil in re- sponse to a governmental comm is- s ion to construct a sculpture for a building designed by Niemeyer in Brasilia. A year later Barrett re- turned to Europe and traveled and worked in Paris, Amsterdam, Frankfurt and London, where he received the 1957 International Jewelry Award. The years between 1961 and 1966 were spent in Israel working on commissions for. among others. the Knesset, the Hadassah Hospi- tal, and the Tel Aviv Hilton. Almost immediately upon his arrival in New York City in 1996, Barrett was recognized as a major talent. His first exhibition was at the Museum of Modern Art in \Jewelry by Contemporary Paint- ers and Sculptors.\ The earliest examples of Barrett's work in this exhibition are in jew- elry. Extraordinary as these \vorks are, within that particular genre of object making, they may also serve as a point of departure in examin- ing some of the sources and chal- lenges in Barrett's sculpture. Barrett's success can be attrib- uted to his struggle to balance two extreme tendencies in his work-- geometric rigor and unfettered biomorphism. Much of Barrett's early work relied heavily on a grid to which elements of various shapes and sizes were added. The earliest sculpture in this exhibition. Crowd Saies No. 6, 1988, is in many ways exemplary of those grid work!>. It relies hea'<ily on geom- etry, with individual elements of stretching, protruding, and nudg- ing. The significance ofthis \Votk hO\vever, lies in its departure from earlier works. Instead of acting as a mere support structure, the grid becomes the main subject matter. The curious aspect of this \.\orh is that while it is intense!~ rh! si- ca! in nature it remains remarJ...abl~ visual. ..

._, \ _.;- ·. Tennis Takes Advantage of Rest to Win Big by Brian Terlinski Staff Writer Every sports team lihs to have a break in the actioH once a while. With a long stretch of away matches in the past weeks, first facing Hamilton, and then Clarkson and St. Lawrence, the Union women's tennis team got what they needed-a rest. The absence of a mid-week match gave the team some time to relax and to concentrate on any play that needed improvement for their weekend match. On Saturday, Union welcomed Hartwick College to good old Schenectady. The weather was great, with the sun shining brightly, and Union was more than prepared to get back into the realm of competition. The results of the match show that a week's rest re- ally paid off for the team. Union totally commanded both sides of this match, in singles and in doubles. Union won (8-1) in matches, bringing their record to .500 (at 3-3). Number-one seed sophomore Cassie Lawton breezed by her opponent, (6-1, 6- I), while number-two seed Jodi Uiberall had no trouble, cruising to a (6-2, 6-0) win. SeniorCaptain Dawn Tessier, who defeated her opponent easily (6-3, 6- I), came into this match expecting more out of the Hartwick team. \In the past, Hartwick has been a more com- petitive team, but everyone played Women's Soccer Continued From Page 20 the case with this victory.\ Coach Speck was also impressed with the leadership of seniors Lauren Siegel and tri-captain Liz Kittleman, who each added their first goals of the season. \Their experience in games after a loss certainly gave us the proper attitude and confi- dence we were looking for.\ With a record of 5-1, and com- ing off such a lopsided victory, the Dutchwomen are certainly a team to be reckoned with. Come root them on this weekend at home as they take on RPI on Friday at 4 PM and Skidmore on Saturday at I PM. Don't expect these bitter ri- vals to let Union walk all over them as Utica did, as these two games will definitely be a hard- fought war. Crew Gets Ready ...... . by Eugene D. Schultz Staff Writer \\lith the arrival of October, Union students can be sure of two things first off it is going to get very cold and secondly the start of the Varsity Crew seasons begins. With this there first year with Var- sity status Union Crew looks to burst onto the scene this Saturday October 4th at the Head of the Mohawk. The varsity teams by captai11s Nick Papanickolas and Kenley Smith, coached by Tom White and Shannon Daley have been practicing since week I ev- ery m()rning at 5:30. Aided by a new boat yet unnamed, the men look to place highly in the race by entering two eight-seat boats. Who will row these boats will be de<:i(,jed this Wednesday, when both c()aches put their respective · teams through a vigorous test to see who is to the Belhany Cartledge ln-linc slwter. T-hall slugger. Drunk driving victim. .Jantwry 18, J 994 Cheraw, SC If you don't stop som.eone from driving dnmk, who will? Do whatever it takes. FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ~fAKE GREAT CHRISTMAS SIN CT.! ' t ' • I IF YOU CAN BEGIN WORK THE FIRST \VEEK t • • OF DEC. OR EARLIER, AWARD \VINNIJ':G : RETAIL SHOP IN NE\V CANAAN CT IS NO\V • • • • : :\CCEPTING XMAS SALES HELP APPIJCA.. : • TlONS. $8/HR, 40 HR \VEEK. PLEASE CALL • : RAY FOR MORE INFO @ PENNYWEIGHTS : I t JE\VELRY GIFT STORE. (203) 966·7739 • • : SECUREYOURJOBTODAY : t • t t t • t t t • t f t t t t t t t f t • I t I I t t t f t • • • '

• PROCTOR'S CHARGE BY PHONE:· (518) 34f;-6204 1VELCOMI£ 'BACX.. STU'D'E!J('£5 & !F.!ltCfl.lLPY I would !if(§. to wefc.ome tlie f{lnion Coflege stutfen.ts ana faculty 6ac{(_ to Stlu!.nec.tatfy and invite you to come in to fia'l!e yourliair cut at my new focation C/iande/ii?rs :J-lair Stutfio $9~00 mens liair cut $14.00 w.omen s liair cut .· :· Skydiving?! llianesburg Skydiving 27 Years in Business . (5181 895-8140 15 Minutes From Gampus [Down Flllute 71 ·open Seveo ·oays College Rep Wanted!!

'' t I '' I ~ .;,.•. Page 18 • October 2., 1997 • 'Ql:lp~ <!1littwroimsis ____ _:___ -~----- · _____________________ .:._____ _ ____ · --~~~ort~ Another Two To Go for Nick Conway by Jason Everett Staff Writer He may have graduated in June with a math major, but two-time cross-country MVP Nick Conway returned to Union this September as an assistant coach to the cross· country team, while taking the ini- tial steps to earn his graduate de- gree in Union's MAT program. It may not be two .laps to go in an 800m or two more repeats on Ra- v,ine Road, but Conway will be around Union for two more years, which ifhistory holds to form, will be just as exciting, and memorable as his previous four. For *hose of you who do not know (if you do not, you had bet- ter ask somebody), Nick Conway is undoubtedly the most pleasant and gracious student to walk Union's fabled grounds, perhaps ever. Anyone who has ever met Nick would agree. Despite his good nature, Conway, over the course of four years, repeatedly ripped the hea~s out of opposing runners on the track and trails, and afterwards went over to them, and in aJI sin- cerity said, \Nice race.\ He may have left them for dead on the backstretch of the track or in the last 100 meters, sprinting aS only he could, but despite his unbeliev- able competitive spirit, he never stopped being himself, or as he says, \keeping it real.\ Conway's running achieve- ments whiJe at Union are very im .. pressive: two-time cross country team MVP; cross country team captain; two-time state 4x800 meter relay champ; two-time UCAA 4x800 meter relay champ; several top finishes in the ROO meter on the state level; and all- state selections in cross country. The accolades for Conway can go .on and on, but Conway's memo- ries of Union are indeed the more memorable, surpassing all the ath- letic accomplishments. When speaking with Nick, one easily gets the sense that to him, glory was always secondary, if not further removed, from what truly mattered to him while participat- ing in sports at Union. What he cherishes the most are the friend- ships and memories he has shared with his teammates over the pre- vious four years. Nick reminisced recently about his most cherished track memories, \ ... memories of Jay [Goldberg], Pete [Flynn.], [Mike] Leding, Seth [Rudin], and Russ [Stram]. [We had] great times at the meets, [and] warming up ... [itwas] thepeoplethatmade it aU worth it... [Especially] in cross country where every- one. i·s going through the same pain.\ Nick contio- ued by talking abouthis favor- ite memories running on the state best 4x800 meter r.e- Jay team his junior year. It was clearly evi- deM when speaking With N i.ck that there- lays hold· a spe- cial place in his heart. He said \I . ' loved the .re- unwavering support for Union's track team the past few .years. Nick cited last sprin,g when, \ .... he flew in from Florida after his son [had] ~lready graduated [to come cheer us on at states] .... Come race time, his voice was the one that l heard;[ saying], 'Pass this kid or your nQjh·ing!' It was such an inspiration to see Mike and moments was running a naked pe- rimeter around Union his junior year.. Nick thought it ironic :that even when he was. not competing· ag~inst other schMls, one of his best memories would involve rtin- ning,~~nyway. (For space con~ cerns, the reason why he ran this ·perimeter will be addressed an- the far end of the backstretch [in a .race]. He was as good a friend and ·teammate asl could have h!.ld.\ · Although Nick spoke fondly about three of his closes~ friends at Union, he spoke at J¢ngth. ()n two coaches whom he has gotten to know very wen oveithe past four years and. with Whom he wiH be working for aMther two. other time.) tn aU seri()us.. Of cross country coach Charlie ness, Nick felt Casey, Nick said, \He· is the that h,ts best man .... I loveCharlie. Bella~ the times at Uni()n sport like itshouldbe ... he inspired were \ ... with us .... [saying]do·whatyou can but my boys ... in . have. fun .•. thi_s is what life is all .F()x hall .. .little about, keeping a batance.\ things like ha11g- He knows whatthe sport and life ing oufwith my are all about. There is no sense roommates.\ being out there if we're not smH- Three of ing. He wants everyone to.work Nick!s \boys\ forhim.buthehelps us keep it light were Dave and enjoyable at the same time.\ Riggi, p.eter Nick clear.ly felt that last year at .. Flynn, and Jay cross country states was a perfect Goldberg, AI~ exampleofthis. · th'ou'gh he. was \At the awards ceremony we · ·only teammat()s [th.etearn] Were extremely obnox- , with him for two ious and cheering. We were, the years, Nick happiest kids alive and we only got ho'lds .a special sixth ... ~ We were goofballs,. but r,egard for , during the race w~ weren't .... Our Flynn. \[He coach made sure of that\_ was]kind ~flike On coach Larry Cottrell, Nic;k my partner the . said, '\[He is] a great guy to have last two years. I around. He cares about the t~am a . felt naked when lot; and there is a lot to handle try- I ran without ing to coach everybody, bu.t he him. He made handles it welL We'll miss Aldo me improve as a [Nardiello l though, but.he' s .Qoing runner [and I] what .he loves [coaching soccer] followeq.hifl1. If down in Flodda. · Nick Conway at a recti11t meet. (Jay E1r~ett I TC) one of us did well and the other didn't, it lays .. [It was] depending on the others ... just the adrenaline,. the excitement, not wanting to be the kid who 'screws up' that mad.e it s.o much fun.\ Nick \conve- niently\ forgot to add that be~ ___________ __,_ ____ .__._ __ ......... _______ __._.......,... didnotfeelcom- bolick is \pretty excited\ about being back at Union again for two more years, beca11se he can now \give back to the program that has given [me] so much. l' ll definitely miss race day though.\ Nick still feels \sornewhat'disappointed\ on ing state champ in that race made 'him.\ it somewhat enjoyable as well. When as keel what his m.ost One would be remiss to talk memorable running moment at about Union's renowned 4x800 Union was, Nick clearly· felttfiat meter team without talking about it was last year in cross country another one of its members and regionals. Nick's feelings towards him. This· He felt this way because; he runner was Mike Leding '96. Nick stated, \Runningregionals with all said, \[He was] a fun guy, not only of the mud was the way tha1 I a great athlete. He was what made wanted to end my cross countrY it all worth it. [He] always kept us career. It was th~ symbol to me of amused and entertained,\ in refer- what cross coun~was all about-·, ence to Leding' s skewed sense dt . prevailing thr()ugh. and dealing .. humor. \He never meant any with obstacles.\ ·Then Nick said, harm, [and he w.as] great at get- tongu-e ... iQ-cheek, \R\Ino;ing ting me pumped up.\ . though the inudw:as funtoo:\ . Nick also voice·d praise .upon Out$ide·:ot_ril.nn.ing _for Uqjon, Mike's father, Mr._Leding, for his one. of Nick'srnost mefliorabele plete. )twas kind of like a pack~ age deal out there.\ On Goldberg,. Nick com- mented, 'THe was] as goodatrai!l- ing partner and friend as they come, despite him making me watch all The Godfather [movies] and tapes of New York Knicks playoff games. The memories go so much far- ther than just the races, memories of being roommates and buds.\ Although he mentioned him last, Nick clearly felt that fellow grad Dave Riggi was one of the \best guys and friends'' that he had .known while at Union. \.[IJalways knew thati could count on him at / the way his final outdoor season ended in the spring. \I was looking forward to out- door after coming back from Bar- bados, but I came back a scrub.\ Nick forgets to mention againthat he did finish third in the state in the 800 meter. \[Despite that] I gained· so much from Barbados and the people l met and encoun- tered. That is something I will never forget.\ It .ish ighly likely that Union will never forget you either, Nick Conway. Men's Soccer Rebounds From Tough Week . ' ' - - . . . by David Weiner St(lff Writer Coming into this season, the Union College Men's Soccer Team had extreme:ly. high aspirations. With a solid core of returning players, a new coach and philosophy, and a strong- group of newcomers, their outlqok could not have been more positive. On top of that, the team opened their season with two commanding victories in the Union Invitational. Things c~mld not have been going any better for this squad. Then, last week, the men faced an unexpected curvebaJI. First, they fought hard to recover in the second half versus Hamilton to merely escape with a tie, and then they suffered a humiliating loss at· productive time and was quite· the liands of -Ho.bari. These :pleased with the intensity· of h·is performances are not what the . team's. · wotk · ethic and team was IOC>king for, nor are they determination;· ,.. · · .. what takes a team into the post- Following in the same fashion season. as pvevious contests this season, However, through the power of the team started ()ff slowly against convenient scheduling, the men Vassar. Although the team had did nothaveanothercontest for .an their week of practice; they seemed' entire week. This luxury provided a bit rusty in the early g<>ings. the team with six days in which to Throughout the· fusi half, the team regain their wits, work on wasunabletogettheoffensegoing fundament&Js,.and refocus on their and did not show the intensity and preseason goals. Having this time concentration they had hoped is exactly what Union needed, as would reveal itself. With all this,· they were able to find the skills that though, the ·first half stilJ came· to had propelled them to victory a close with the score· knotted at earlier ln the season and to beat a zero. solid Vassar tearri. The week of · During half-time,. coach Guinn training treated the Union soccer gathered his troops together and team quite well. Coach Guinn asked his returning players this ca11ed this week an extremely question: \What d.o we want from this seas@n?\ The response to this question, frorn·each player;wasto: win. games, teach the playoffs, -ahd · more importantly, to reach the level th~y know they are a\Jie play .. Everyone knows how much losing hurts when you know you can win, and no one on that team wanted to lose. The team took th,is idea and. again refocused for the.second half. Throughout the season, this team did most of its scoring in the second half and this game wairnot any different. WHh their. new focus, the men played their best forty-five minu1es of the season thus far. Their passes were crisp, goal-tending solid, and over-all play superior to that of their opponents. Ibrahim Adamu and Steve Baumgartner are the two players who put the ballin the net, but it was the work of their teammates that allowed them to net these goals. Finally, as time expired, Union had displayed the quality of soccer each player knew they were capab1e. The-team emerged with their third of what they hope will be many victories. Their next contest poses to be the hardest matchup of the year against a potent Williams 'team. The entire team knows how important this game is and that if they open similar to the way they have, they woll't have a·chance at winning. However, if they play the entire game in the same manner in which they finished th.e Vassar . game, there is a strong possibility that another victory is in store on<:e · again. y fi ir h in th ju in te H g< m ba Rc ne WI

ina md , d1y 1ds wo to )llf be :He :he the red )Ut an ife ISe til~ •l'k •ht , ::\ ,, -· at ~ct ¥e ·X- h.e ;ot >Ut ur ~k ve ta y- le lo tg r] llt '0 w lS ly n n t- ·- \ lt n I s !I 11 . Sports · · \!Ilje <!loncorbteusis • October 2,19?7 • Page 19 Wait 'til 1999! The U11ited States Ryder Cup team failed in their bid to regain the Cup from the Europeans this past weekend in Sotogrande, Spain at the ValderramaGolfClub. The final match score was 14 Vz to BYz,. but the U.S. lost the Cup on Sattuday when they won only one of eight matches. They went into Sunday's singles play down nine matches to four and an insurmountable lead for the European team. Three out of the four major championship winners were on the U.S. side, in- cluding Tiger Woods (the Masters Champion), Justin Leonard (the British Open winner), and Davis Love HI (the PGA Champion}, who won a combined total of 2 and a half points. Tlie U.S. rdlied on Sunday by winning seven ofthe 12 singles matches and halving two others to make tile final score a little more misleading than it re- ally was. The U.S. team had prob- lems making the big putts all weekend long, ~:~nd the j}ressure of playing for your entire country on an extremely difficult course was too much for the ine:xperienced Americans. The 1999 Ryder Cup will be played at The Cot1ntry Club in Brookline, Massach. U5etts. The U.S. will try once again'~· with the home crowd suppert bebind them to ~egain the Cup fro111 the Euro- peans. What a year it has been for some of the big stars of Majo-r League Baseball! Here are same pretty impressive statistics that players put up, starting with Mark McGwire, who ended up with 58 homers, the most everlly a right- hand hitter. Ken Griffey Jr. com- :pleted his MVP season with 56 round trippers; Tony Gwynn won his eighth batting title, finishing with a .372average. Larry Walker almost hit for the Triple Crown by batting .366, hitting 49 clingers, and knocking in a 130, and Roger Clemens had an extraordinary comeback year with 21 victoties 1 an ERA a notch above two, and 292 strikeouts. The postseason starts on Tues- day with some interesting match- ups, including the best team in Major League Baseball this sea- son, the Orioles, against the Mari- ners, who are picked by many to win the World Series. The Giants face the Marlins after winning their first Division title since 1989, while the Braves battle the Astros, who are led by the dynamic one- two combination of Bagwell/ Biggio. The Yani,Cees' .attempt to defend their champion~ip in a . first round series a~aihs~the Tndi- ans. Drum rollplease ... after cor- rectly pickjng the Red Wings to win the Stanley Cup, I will go two for two in calls by picking the Mariners to win the World Series in six games against the Braves. From the in-case-you-missed-it files, last week disgruntled for- ward Shawn Kemp of the Sonics was traded in a three-way deal in- volving two other all-stars, includD ing Vin Baker of the Bucks and Terrell Brandon of the Cavs. Kemp was extremely unhappy about his salary, and he said he would never play again for Seattle. The logistics of the trade are as follows: the SonicsgetBakerfrom Milwaukee, and the Bucks receive Brandon and Tyrone Hill from Cleveland. The Bucks also get Cleveland's first-round pick in 1998 if it doesn't fall among the first ten. The Cavs will get Kemp from Seattle and Shennan Douglas from Milwaukee. TbeCavs, with $9.5 million in salary cap-cap room, are one of the few NBA teams that could give him a new long-term deaL The Bucs remained undefeated by winning their games against the Cardinals and Falcons. Tampa Bay won a tight game, I 9-18, by blocking a punt for a touchdown and faking a punt to set up another TD. They won on quarterback Trent Oil fer's 31-yard scoring pass to Karl Williams with 4:18 left. The Bucs have not made the play- offs since 1982 and have not been 5-0 since 1979, when they reached the NFC title game. The Bucs lead the NFC Central by two games going into next Sunday's road showdown against the Super Bowl Champion Green Bay Packers. Football Wins In Dramatic Fasbion ... Cont'd From Page 20 punt was returned f() Union's 3 9- yard line, and five plays. later, Hobart scored a touchdown. Things got worse for the Dutch- men as Union sop.homore Joe Attanasio, following a second McKeown interception, muffed a Hobart punt. A Hobart special\- teams player pushed a Union player into Attanasio~ butthe offi- cials did not call catcher interfer- ence or award Union the ball. Hobart retained possession at Union's 25-yard line. Just f()ur plays later, Union's defense gave up another touchdown and extra point-the final points that the Statesmen would score on their Homecoming Day. Union needed to C()nvert late in the second quarter in order to take some momentum into the locker room during halftime. Hobart helped shift their momentum to Union with I :46 remaining in tile first half, as Hobart punter Jim Martineck mishandled a snap in his own endzone and took a knee for a safety. The safety made the score 1 7-2, but more importantly gave Union possession following a Hobart free kick froin their own 20-yard line. Attanasio returned the ball near midfield, and McKeown found senior receiver Ryan Smith for the firsttime in two weeks for a touchdown. The 34- yard score was foll():wed by a failed two-point conversion, mak- ing it a two-possession game at halftime, 17-8. Starters Rebound in 2\d Half Following halftime, junior de- fensive tackle Jim Kochan gave a thumbs-up as he appr{)ached the field. This symbol was a sign <Jf things to come in the second half. ·The Union defense came alive in a big way, starting the halfwitb three straight intercepti()ns. First, junior defensive back Jim Rozakis intercepted Hobart transfer quar• terback Steve Kenny at midfield. However, a missed 27-yard field goal looked to pause the Dutch- men momentum. Seni()rdefensi:ve back Lenny Mortimore followed Rozakis with another intercepti()n near midfield, but the Dutchmen were able to get past-Hobart's 39. Finally, Attanasio int~rcepted a deep Kenny pass atUni{)n~s 25 and brought it back to the4~with 5:59 remaining in the thitd ·<JU.arter. A 22-yard completion to Smith and an I I -yard Joe Latella Jush were the preludes to· a 25-yard McKeown pass to seniCl!r receiver Marc Heller for his first touch- down of the season. Another missed kick kept tile sc()re at 17- 14. Hobart appeared t() .rebound well from the Dutchm~a,score as they drove to Union's 21. However, a Mike Thomp- son sack and a tackle behind the lirie of scrimmage by seni-or Denton Randolph and junior John Visconti placed the Statesmen outof field-goal range. Union reclaimed the ball at their own seven after a Martineck punt. This was the closest to scor- ing Hobart came in the sec- ond half. Union's next drive started with 12:21 left in the game, w-ith the Dutchmen still trailing by a .field goal. However, a tremendous team effort by the offense allowed Union to put together an ~2:-yard, n -play drive, resulting in a seven- yard Joe Latella rush f()f .a touch- down. Hobart's fortunes tumed uglier as Randolph sacked ami forced fumbles by Kenny on two-s1raight drives, the first recovered by Kochan and the second t~ken by junior Chris Doraz. Matt Braun wart added a touchd()wn on a one-yard msh, making the final score 28-17. The 17 -po iltt deficit represented the largest Dutchmen comeback the current grou!) of se- lli<Jrs ever participated in. Remember These G11yr? The comeback would have been impessible without last year's de- fensive standouts taking the initia- tive in the second half. Randolph tallied four sacks, two forced fumbles, and 13 tackl.es (six for losses), giving him not only UCAA and Upstate New York Player of the Week honors, but also the prestigious ECAC Player of the Week award. After the game, he said, \We couldn't.have done it without the -guys in the middle. I think ~e·r~ going to carry this· momentum right: into [the Rochester game]. We're go- ing t() come out and play the way we know how.\ The remainder of the defense shared in four sacks, including Visconti. His six tackles and one sack marked his best game since last season. Kochan's statistics were somewhat deceiving, as he only participated in two tackles and a fumble recovery, but he helped contain Hobart rusher Lamark Logan to only 74 yards. There were also some newer names who performed excellent defensively. Junior tackle Jason Turi had seven tackles, including an important stop of Logan behind the line of scrimmage as Union's momentum began to rise. Senior tackle Greg Nigro had five tack- les, senior linebacker Mark Serio had nine tackles, and sophomore J,inebacker Thompson had a sack and seven tack.les. The offense also had a huge game, especially after Hobart's fi- nal touchdown. McKeown passed for two touchdowns after h-is two first-half interceptions. He com- pleted 15 of his 27 passes for 213 yards, and he moved his pass effi- cien_cy rating to 127.4, fifth in up- state New York. McKeown looks to c~ir.y his own momentum into next-weel\end. ''We look to win every gaQ!e. Next week we have Rochester, and it's an- other chal- lenge. We want to come out and win.\ Another of- fensive star was Latella. His 142 rush- ing yards made him the third best rusher in up- state New Y<>rk (with 96.3 yards per game), and it marks his· sec- ond I 00-plus yard game this season. Latella was extremely ~x­ cited about the Dutchmen come- back. \This was the best win ever! It was a tremendous lift because we came out in the second half and played football. The defense and offensive line did agreatjob. Ev- erybody did a great job.\ Smith and Heller rounded out the offensive celebrities, each re- ceiving for over 70 yards and a touchdown. The touchdown with Smith's third ofthe season, rank- ing him eighth in scoring in up- state New York. Audino Gains Respect After last week's benching of some players for disciplinary rea- sons, Coach John Audino took some criticism from team mem- bers and watchers. By the end of Saturday's game, however, both factions realized the importance of Audino's moves and regained re- spect for Audino. The team chanted, \Dino! after the game, showing their favor for Audino. At halftime, Audino told his team that they had noth.ing to lose in the second half. \We said, 'Fellas, we're making them look good.' Had it not been for some shoddy special teams play and a couple turnovers, the score should have been at worst tied at halftime. I can't tell you how C{)mposed tht:se guys were on th:e sidelines. It was almost a blessing Hobart was ahead. We said, 'The worst thing that could happen is that it's going to be 17-8 and we're going home 2-1. ;, Homecoming With Momentum Coach Audino arrd the rest of his team must prepare fortfleir Home- coming/Parents' Weekend game this Saturday against tile Roches- ter Yellowjackets, a team Union pounded last year. Union enters the game after rising to I 6th place (from I 9'h) in the USA Ill Foot- ball Poll and 12th in Don Hansen's Football Gazette Poll. The Dutch- men will get their first glimpse of their possible playoff position af- ter the Rochester game, as the first NCAA Division III regional poll is released next Monday (October 6). If Union is in the t()p four, an undefeated season would most likely earn them a postseason berth. Elsewhere in the East, Coast Guard won their second overtime game while Buffalo State lost their second game to Upstate New York Poll leader Cortland State. This weekend, Rowan and Co liege of New Jersey duke it out in a top- ten battle. IfUnion wins, the loser of this game would probably slip below Union in the regio11al poll. Editors Note-: Due to space considerations. This weeks football poll will ap- pear on page 16. We at The Co11cotdiensis apologiz:e for the seperation. In next weeks issue, Mr. Rossi will debut the first East Regional Poll that will indicate Union's playoff status. -·

:~ . Fall Teams Raise Their Level {)f Play Women's Soccer Moves to 5-1 With Ten-Goal Victory Field Hockey Seniors Defeat St. Lawrence by Geoff Sullivan By Stefanic Speanburg Sports Editor Staff Writer Coming off four impressive performances to be- The Dutchwomen began the week with ami- gin their season, the Union College Women's nor setback--an away lossongrass to Williams, Soccer team was full of spirit and emotion as they 3-l. Tara Blagys led the defense, and Jackie Eatz headed into play last Saturday at Vassar. Having played excellent .offense. yet to surrender any goals, the team was brought The Dutchwomen played hard until the end. back to reality as Vassar would not sit back in awe Sophomore Michelle Tardiff made her season oftheundefeated Dutchwornen. Unable to handle debut with 19 saves. \Williams was quicker to the strong second-half attack by Vassar, the team's the ball and played with a powerful offense.\ perfect record came to an end. Vassar handed the recounted sophomore Hillary London. Dutchwomen their first loss of the season, 3-2. After sufferingthe disappointing loss midweek Union opened the scoring in the first half, when to Williams, the Dutchwomen bounced back to freshman Missy Matusewicz continued her strong conquer St. Lawrence 2-l on Saturday. This was start to the season by putting the ball past the thefieldhockeyteam'sfirstdefeatoftheirrival Vass.ar goalkeeper. Vassar tied the score by half- in four seasons. time, but they once again found themselves trail- The win preserved the team's consistent .500 ing early in the second half, as Matusewicz netted record. Union dominated the game offensively her second goal of the game. As the game pro- with 14 penalty corners. The first goal of the gressed, Union began showing signs of fatigue, game, scored by Jackie Eatz, sparked the mo- allowing Vassar to get back inio the game. Mid- mentum that persisted throughout the game for Women'$ soccer piayer Missy Matusewicz Jtelpedfurther the success of her team .(Upper Left way through the second half, Vassar tied the score - Lauie KirschnerltC) Amy Paolo11e and tile .field hockey team turned away St. l-awrence the Dutchwomen. at two and continued to put offensive pressure on for the first time ill tl1e seniors' careers. (Jessica PaigeffC) Dellt(Jn Randolph was Northeast As the g~me continued, Union took advantage the young Dutch women as the game headed for a Player of the Week in Union football with hisfour sacks. (Sports Information) of St. Lawrence's strategy. The Dutchwomen ~----------------~~-------~------------~~--------~ ~~~:~h!~a~ei;dt:; :~~ 0 ~~~~~~· b~~t~:s~~~~hheo~~~~ F ovtblllt\''61uys~~-~;~«1Jifst~:.Btif1Jft: ~~~t:~~~~~~~a~~o~ ~~t~~v;.e~~~a~~:~~ea:~i:e~ goalkeeper Shannon Powers, with what turned out · ·, · even to those irregular spectators. St. Lawrence to be the winning goal of the game. \There was Audino Has Seen To Erase was awarded a penalty stroke after a daring but panicall over the field,\ said senior tri-captain Julie wise maneuver by sweeper Tara Blagys. It was Barton. \The Vassar offense was very quick, and J..,._ D. 0 .. ·l·n· t n· ·e·Rrcz•t with this that the Saints scored their one andonly our defense was not used to it We simply did not / 1 '.C 1 · \:/ f- 1 goal. Sue Joyal answered the attempt to tie the play our game.\ Head Coach Brian Speck agreed score with a deflection off a cross from fresh- with hi<> captain. \As a team, we definitely did by Frank Rossi man HillaryOik. TanyaCapparello,HillaryOik, not play as well as we have in our previous games. EiliftJI'-in .. Chief Jackie Eatz, and Darcy Tuczynski played intense We simply did not get the job done.\ This season, the Union College Fighting Dutcbmen sh<Juld be nominated attack. Carrie Heroth made her first appearance !loping to get back on the winning track, the Academy Award. The Dutchmen put fortb their most dramatic comeback in as forward and with Bianca Prurno contributed Dutch women hosted Utica on Monday and were •u,.\'-r\' last Saturday~ as Union forced five Hobart Statesmen turnovers in the sec- to the offensive thrust in the second half. De- definitely ready for the challenge. While the de- half to overcome a 17\0 defidtand win h-y!a finalsco.re ()f28-17. The win fense was a solid unit, impervious to the Saints' fcnse rebounded from their shaky effort against the Dutebinen record t0'3\0 and brought Hobart down to 2~1. attack. Vassar, the offense exploded with ten goals en The game took a structure muelllike the St. Lawrencegtune had (two weeks The transition game kept the Dutch women route to a 10-0 victory. as the Dutchmen played inetmsistently in the fitst half. Their opening alive tlnough to the finale of the women's great Once again, freshman Missy Matusewicz con- ended with an interception thrown by junior quarterba<:k Tom McKeown, performance. Coach Bevelander commented,\ tinued her potent attack by netting two goals in Hobartwasunabletoconvert. Theremainder(f;fthefirstquartertumedinto The team really wanted it, you could see it as the victory. With her recent goal scoring surge of field position battle, as Hobart effectively pinned Union against their own goal they played. They made their presen<:e known six goals in three games, the freshman was named ine. from the first minute--you could feel it.\ l JCAA player of the week for her efforts Sopho- After 19 minutes of play, the teams remained scoreless. However, Hobart The Dutchwomen suffered a non..:Jeague de- mure Samantha Ryall also had an outstanding IW>t'ltl'lu\tl a Ben BJackwoodJine--drive puntto Union's l9·yaTd line. The Dutch- feat by Middlebury on Tuesday. Gina Lupino game, adding three goals ofher own. \It wasgreat defense was able to prevent'a Statesmen touchdoWll, but p1ac•ki6K.~rFelix scored Union's first goal off a penalty corner. to see more people contribute in the scoring de- Sue Jo}:al scored in the second half and played partment,\ said Coach S.peclc \We need more an impressive game. The Dutchwomen play people to step up and score, which was definitely home against Springfield this Friday, and the · ·-··-· · Coniiiiued on page 16 team expects a comeback in full force. f ! , ' . l ~ I· I'

·~>a rents' Weekend/Homecoming Weekend Special . . · W:l~r illmu:oroicw:ds • October 2, 1997. • Page At· UNION COLLEGE HOMECOMING & PARENTS' WEEKEND FINAL SCHEDULE OCTOBER 3-5, 1997 • FRIDAY,OCTOBER3 4 p.m. Women's Soccer vs. Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Garis Field 5:30p.m. . Field Hoekey vs. Springfield College, Frank Bailey Field 6:30 - 8 p.m Registration, Reamer Campus Center Information Desk 8 & 10 p.m. Campus Movie: Men in Black, Reamer Campus Center Auditorium. FREE ~ SATURDAY,OCTOBER4 Morning Men's and Women's Crew at the Head of the Mohawk Regatta. The first of four Head Races this fall is staged from the Aqueduct Boat Club at . Rexford Bridge. Union and cross..;town rival Rensslaer, will face off in both the Men's Mayors Cup Race (scheduled for 1 I :20 a.m.), and Women's Bellevue Cup (scheduled for 10:30 a.m.). The Novice Men Eights, racing for .the Novice Challenge Cup, is scheduled for 1: 10 p.m. And the Novice Women Eights, racing for the Novice Challenge Cup, is scheduled for 2:30 p.m. All races will start/finish at the Aqueduct/Rexford launch site. 8 a.m. Parents Council Open Meeting and Welcome Continental Breakfast, Old ChapeL Meeting open to all parents with updates from Parents Council volunteers and college administrators. The meeting will start with a welcome continental breakfast. 9 a.m .... 1 p.m. Registration/Welcome Reception, Reamer Campus Center Information Desk 9 a.m. Alumni Council Meeting, Reamer Campus Center Auditorium 9:50 a.m. Chimes Concert, by Peter K. Smith '70, Memorial Chapel Listen to Union's chimes as they call the campus to the President's Welcome. 10 a.m. President's Welcome to Parents and Alumni, Nott Memorial 11 a.m. Guided Campus Tour, which leaves from the Nott Memorial, includes details about the construction of the new F.W. Olin Center and the renovation of Schaffer Library.

Page A2. • o·ctober 2, 1997 • 'Wl1c ffiott;n,d•icusrs . . . Parents' ~Weekend/f:Io.mecoming Weekend Special • SATURDAY, OCTOBER 4 (Continued) . 11 a.m~ Pa-rent Career Panel Discussion, hosted by the Parents C~uncil, Hale House Dining Room. Parents of current students will share information about their professions through a panel discussion. 11 a .. m. Paths from Union to Do·ctoral Level Health Professions: a span of 40 years of experience. Panelist Robert B. Howe, MD •ss, associate dean for faculty affairs and professor of medicine, University of Mim1esota Medical School; Louis S. Snitkoff, MD '73, internist, Capital Medical Associates, Schenectady; George W. Palmer, DVM '76, owner, Palmer Veterinary Clinic, Plattsburgh; Michele A. Scrime, DMD '73, fellow, postdoctoral endodontics, Harvard School of Dental Medicine; and Maria E. Rivera '96, student, New York College of Osteopathic Medicine will each discuss their professional experience and career focus. HUmanities 115. 11 a.m. - 1 :30 p~m. Luncheon: Culinary Delights from Around the Globe, Upper Class Dining Room, Reamer Campus Center. Reservations required, please register by September 22. 11 a.m.- 3 p.m. Hayrides, leave from in front of the Reamer Campus Center. 11 a.m. - 1 p.m. Pre-Game Tailgate Party, sponsored by the New York City Club. Alexander Field -\ I p.m. Football vs. University of Rochester, Frank Bailey Field President Roger H. Hull presents the Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy at halftime. 1 p.m. Women's Soccervs. Skidmore, Garis Field 1 p.m. Women's Tennis vs. Oneonta State, Tennis Courts by Lamont House 1 p.m. Multimedia Presentation, a sample class and demonstration of the Internet as a teaching tool by Professor Mark Walker of the History Department, Humanities 019. - 2 p.m. Alumni and Parents Reception, sponsored by UBGLAD (Union's Bi-sexual-Gay ... Lespian-Adv~pa:tes ~Q Defenders) : . For more information, contact Beth Wheat, 388-5737, Multicultural Resource ,Cent~r,·Reamer Campus Center. 308.: ' . - ~ ,. ~·~ ,, ~ f' . 4 p.m. Adopt-A-Duck Race.· Carnival game fun, held on Hans Groot's Kill between the bridges, Jackson's Garden. · 4 p.m. The Future of Teaching and Le~:rning at Union: A Glimpse. at Tomorrow. Sh()wcase demonstration and dedication of Union's newest electronic multimedia classroom and whiteboard technology. Steinmetz Hall, 106. ·

Parents' Weekend/Homecomin,g~ Weettend Special · , . Wtrc C!1.o~tcoxoicn.si; • .Oefober 2, 1997. • Page·A3 • SATURDAY, OCTOBER 4 (Continued) 4 p.m. Tips f~om Wall Street, Hale House Dining Room. Alumni discuss opportunities and the \do's and don't's'' for entering Wall Street positions. 4:30p.m. Legacy Reception, Milano Lounge 5:30 p.m. D·ean's List and Ramee Society Circle Reception, Nott Memorial 6:30 p.m. Fall Harvest Dinner Buffet, Old Chapel. Reservations required, please :register by September 22. 6:30p.m.. Mrdticultural Alumni and Parents Reception and Dinner, Thurston House 6:30p.m. Annual Fund Volunteer Appreciation D·inner!J Upper Class Dining Room, Reamer Campus Center. Reservations required. Dinner and awards ce1emony recognizing efforts of annual fund volunteers. 8 p.m. G•rnet Minstrelles and_ Friends, Nott Memorial 8 & 10 p.m. Campus Movie: Men in Black, Reamer Campus Center Auditorium. FREE 9:30p.m. Mitch Frasier. An evening of acoustic classics at Chet's. Cash bar, food available, Reamer Campus Center. • SUNDAY, OCTOBER 5 9 a\m.- Noon Autumn in New York Brunch, Upper Class Dining Room, Reamer Campus Center .. Reservations required, please register by September 22. 9:30 a.m. AOP (Academic Opportunity Program) Brunch, Hale House Dining Room. For more information, contact the AOP Office at (518) 388 ... 6115 .. - .\ 1 0 a.m. P~ote~tant Won hip Ser-Vice, Old· Chapel .. · . \: ,/ • ~ • t • - ~ • I ' • .~ ' -; J J ; : t f q , ~ ~ . !) ·~j .. · t ~ .( • _., . ~ 10 a.m. Mass at St. ·John the~Evangelist. · St. ·Jolm's is located directly across Union Street from the Pa~e Gate and th~ President's House. ~ ' ). . . ~~ . \. • ..:.. \ ' • ' ' -t • :: . Cbeck.tbe postings at the Reamer Campus Center Information Desk for mew events, schedule changes, and activities arouod· campus. - -

'• • • - - ~ • \ <' General Information Alumni Gymnasium Friday 8:30a.m. to 9 p.m. (Pool open Noon to 2 p.m. and 7 to 8:30p.m.) Saturday Noon to 9 p.m. (Pool open 1 to 5 p~m.) Sunday Noon to 9 p.m. (Pool open 1 to 5 p.m.) Bookstore Friday Saturday Sunday 8:45 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. 9:30 a.m. to 1 :30 p.m. DINING SERVICE Dutch Hollow Restaurant Friday 7:30a.m. to 10 p.m. Saturday 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday 1 0 a.m. to 12 a.m. Rathskellar Friday Saturday 11:30 a.m. to 7:30p.m. 9 p.m. to 1 a.m .. 3:30 p.m. to 1 a.m. Upper Class Dining Room Friday Lunch 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Dinner 4:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. West College Friday Breakfast: 7:30 to 10:30 a.m. Lunch: 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Saturday Brunch: 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Dinner: 4:30p.m. to 7 p.m. , Sunday Brunch: 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Dinner: 4:30p.m. to 7 p.m. Memorial Chapel Saturday 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Nott Memorial Friday Noon- 10 p.m. Saturday 1 0 a.m. - 1 0 p.m. Sunday Noon- 10 p.nl. Mandeville Gallery, second floor, Nott Memorial \Daniel Barrett: The Liberating Gesture'' is on exhibit now through Oct 19. An exhibition of sculpture, furniture and jewelry by internationally known artist Daniel Barrett, a Schenectady resident. ' ' v '$1 . , n el F c ' tl b ·fl b. d c .( .. (( ] • I I I I .I I ',,,, . ' I I I I •

s y e c y e e d . n , ' ' ! ; . : ,, ' \ >:1 .. 1 I , I, I, The Student Newspaper of Union College Since JIJ77 ~\ ~,.,- l Volume CXXVIL Number IV · · · Schcnectadv. New· York ·.: · · , . . ·. ·octobe-i· 9~ .1.997~ ' . ' .,. ,, ' . . ·- ~~.- ... ' ' Union Welcomes Alumni and Parents by Aileen Quigley Editor-in-Chi~ Alumni and families joined the Unicm Col'lege community this past weekend, pro- viding them with various activities artd en ... tertainment througho11t the weekend. For the sports fans, U niQn' sathletes com\ peted against teams from ato und the area to defend their Garnet pride. Men's and women's crew raced for the first time as a varsityteam in the Head oftheMohawk Re- gatta, taking home the Women's Bellevue Cup and blowing .the nearest competition out of the water. Frank Bailey Field hosted the women's field hockey against Springfield College and the football team's sla11ghter ofthe Univer- .sity of Rochester. At the football game, at- tendance climbed to 3,800 spectators, a large crowd compared to regular season . games but falling about 700 short of last year's Homecoming game against the Coast Guard. The women; s soc.cer team displayed their tenacity and drive when facing the Rensselaer Engineers and the Skidmore Thoroughbreds on Friday and-Saturday re- spectively. Women's tennis pounded Oneonta State on Satllrday afternoon, us- ing the home court advantage to crush their competition. In addition to athletic skills, Union stu- dents also demonstrate<! their musical tal- ent both vocally and instrumentally. At the President's Welcome, Peter K. Smith '70 played the chimes. In the N.ott Memorial, the Gospel Choir lifted their voices in song. The Gamet Minstrels followed, singing a capella selections like \I Wanna Live Easy,\ \No Woman No Cry,\ and \Sweet Dreams\ Shortly after the concert, Mitch Frasier also brought his unique jazz sounds to the re· laxed atmosphere of Chet's in the Reamer .Campus Center. Aside from celebrating the talent of :present students, there were also• activiti.es • targeted to the \kid\ in everyon-e. The Adopt-A-Duck race in Jackson's Gardens. • and hayrides around campus added an in- · formal and carefi:eeatmosphereto the week- . end, complemented by the tailgate party · before the football game. The money pledged for each duck was donated to the <;lass of 1998 Gi·ft fund. For those interested i11 finding <:>i:Jt more about Union; s academicand career-oriented <>pportunities, alumni and students provided . the chance to get their questions answered. A panel of past graduates shared tb,eir ex- perience irt Doctorate Level Health Profes- sions, while other alumni provided tips from Wall Street. Parents ofcurrentstudents also shared insight about their professions in a ••••~•lllliMiiiii panel discussion, and the Academic Oppor- h~yProgrnmh~~m~fum•~uJ~--~~~~==~~~=~~~~~~~~e~~~~L---~ brunch on Sunday. Students who made the Dean's List for 1996.., 1\997 were recognized in a small re- ception in the Nott. In this forum, they were among members of the Ramee Society, and 1 ~,, 10 ,JJ;c':.~~ ,;:,_'1'11!!\\i;'\''\\\:\\''c were presented with pins as recognition of w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·· their achievement. These students had to .,,._,.,·· .. · . .;.-.·, :'i:J·::t;;::l}JW~il~•~~~~r!l•~:r::' have earned a cumulative Grade Point Av• erage of 3.35 to be honored. Dean Linda Cool congratulated the students and the alumni present, stating that she was glad to have the opportunity to recognize student achievement outside the context of sports or theater. p~!fla)f§~~~~~gi~r.,:,. . . ... . . . . . . . ~·r Professors also demonstrated some.ofthe technological advances now available to Union students. The electronic presentation Classroom in Steinmetz 1 06 and use of the lntemet inHumanities 019 are just some of the advantages present students will be ;:~ble . . don't thUtk thekAC reafized that thl\ St\1· dents would be .this concerned,\ he cOill· me~te~. :'a~. ~erit mi to state :tbat 'l)ean . J.Jnda.<;;((~l-~~~\'e:lllltml her asst1fane:e l(h~t . something like''thi~. wo,uld newr hap-}Jen again without nioi~ eitensive student c:on- sulta'Qon in the face of such a m~<~r is- sue.\ . , to talk about when it is their turn to come back home to Union. The AAC did feel, however, that tbey · were actin,g; with the support of; the 'Btl!-. · dents and.faonlty, according,to Dean: Brad· · ·. -TMhasicagtndaofth'emeetingal~owed. Lewis. ~\We don'tfeet we did this castt,;;· ·. ffifl'>6tlitheAWC alld the·Student Ft:Jrum to . ally,'~ he sa-id, ''We didn,t start with tfle · present what they perceive to be the pr<)S perfect situation and I'm notconvince<ltlle and cons of revamping the c1ass schedule. situation will get worse.\ He maintains tllat Tom_ Marino, President of the JuniorCiass, the student representatives on the AA.C stated that. roughly 300 s·tudents pass· knew al>out this and the Council udi<ln 1 t tbr~ugh Upperclass dining ball between have any reason to believe .it wasn't a fair 12:25 and 12:50. At this same ti\m¢ close representation ofthe student body.\ Point- to 400 students are in class. With the ere- ing out that the original suggestion for tl'le ation of a common lunch hour, those other Tuesday· Thursday schedule change was students would be eating lunch, filling the made by one of last year's student reJlre- facility to well beyond double its nonnal sentativ¢s, Lewis argues that the students' , capacity. Chris Brantigan; Student Forum voices were considered in this decisi()n. · President, added that availability ofcertain He counters that it was Dean Linda C()ol classes might be compromised, creating dif- · who solicited the opinion of the staff c:lttr· ticulty in registering for sections of science ing their facul:ty meeting in the fall «Eve!) labs and card courses. \Departments like though it was not an official vote, Dean . Biology and Psychology are understa:ff~d Cool got a show of opinion,\ he adds, · as it is,\ he stated~ \They need to see the \Faculty liked the idea. of a lu 11ch · . severity ofthe problem as we do.\ Marino hour ... and the popular 12:25 class time also cited the turnover from the present created a time crunch.\ However, Josh Tuesday- Thursday schedule ro the proposed Chaplin maintains that the \faculty don't Tuesday- Thursday-Friday slot as· an· a:ddi~ feet [as though] they were fully consulted. ti<mal concern of the student body. Both Chaplin and Brantigan conct~r tl'lat . In response t-o these concerns; jllttior <:ontinued INSIDE: Campus News ............... , .................... 2 Op-ed .................................................. 8 Arts&: Entertainment ...... , ...................... 15 . ' . News; .................... , .............................. 3' National N£.ws .................................. 6 Sports ....................................... , .. , ........... 19 Science& Technology ........................ 10 Features ................. : ......................... 12

y r e e e e d 11 11 0 r. ~-. ,11 News: Features: Sporti~ Wells House Reborn Page3 Riding the Pine Page 12 Football Goes 4-0 Page 24 Union Welcomes Alumni and Parents by Aileen Q11 igley Editor-in-Citief Alumni and families joined the Union College community this past weekend, pro- viding them with various activities and eFJ- tertainment throughout the weekend. For the spot1s fans, Union's athletes com- peted against teams from around the area to defend their Garnet pride. Men's and women's crew raced for the first time as a varsity team in the Head ofthe Mohawk Re- gatta, taking home the Women's Bellevue Cup and blowing the nearest competition out of the water. Frank Bailey Field hosted the women's field hockey against Springfield College and the football team's slaughter of the Univer- sity of Rochester. At the football game, at- tendance climbed to 3,800 spectators, a large crowd compared to regular season games but falling about 700 short of last year's Homecoming game against the Coast Guard. The women's soccer team displayed their tenacity and drive when facing the Rensselaer Engineers and the Skidmore Thoroughbreds on Friday and-Saturday re- spectively. Women's tennis pounded Oneonta State on Saturday afternoon, us- ing the home court advantage to crush their competition. In addition to athletic skills, Union stu- dents also demonstrated their musical tal- ent both vocally and instrumentally. At the President's Welcome, Peter K. Smith '70 played the chimes. ln the Nott Memorial, the Gospel Choir lifted their voices in song. The Gamet Minstrels followed, singing a capella selections like \I Wanna Live Easy,\ \No Woman No Cry,\ and \Sweet Dreams\ Shortly after the concert, Mitch Frasier also brought his unique jazz sounds to the re- laxed atmosphere of Chet 's in the Reamer Campus Center. Aside from celebrating the talent of present stwdents, there were also activities targeted to the \kid\ in everyone. The Adopt-A-Duck race in Jackson's Gardens and hayrides around campus added m:t in- formal and carefree atmosphere to the week- end, complemented by the tailgate party before the football game. The money pledged for each duck was donated to the Class of 1998 Gift fund. For those interested in finding out more about Union's academ icand career-oriented opportunities, alumni and students provided the chance to get their questions answered. A panel of past graduates shared their ex- perience in Doctorate Level Health Profes- sions, while other alumni provided tips from Wall Street. Parents of current students also shared insight about their professions in a timPi!!lartatirilil'clriipEI!a_.n 8 tsliiiin~tJi!IJeritAtldllfjoi'Piilt- 11 A-Duck race in Hans Gr~ot's Kill in Jackson's Gardens donated panel discussion, and the Academic Oppor- $1,000 towards the \Class of 1998 Gift. \. (Dave Meguerdichian!TC) tunity Program ho~ed an infurm~ional ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ brunch on Sunday. Students who made the Dean's List for 1996-1997 were recognized in a small re- ception in the Nott. In this forum, they were among members ofthe Ramee Society, and were presented with pins as recognition of their achievement. These students had to have earned a cumulative Grade Point Av- erage of 3.35 to be honored. Dean Linda Cool congratulated the students and the alumni present, stating that she was glad to have the opportunity to recognize student achievement outside the context of sports or theater. Professors also demonstrated some of the technological advances now available to Union students. The electronic presentation classroom in Steinmetz 106 and use ofthe Internet in Humanities 019 are just some of the advantages present students will be able to talk about when it is their tum to come back home to Union. Students React to New Class Time Changes by Aileen Quigley Editor-zit-Chief On Tuesday, October 7th, the Academic Affairs Council and its three student mem- bers met with four representatives of the Student Forum to discuss the d;iscontent surrounding next term's impending change in class schedule. Armed with a petit-ion of 550 signatures and a belief that they were voicing the concerns of a significant num- ber ofstudents and faculty, the Student Fo- rum representatives presented their argu- ment against the alteration of class times. The AAC, however, maintained that the new schedule should ameliorate the problems that warranted the .id.ea of change in the first . place, including the lack of an adequate lunch period for meetings. The basic agenda of the meeting allowed for both the AAC and the Student Forum to present what they perceive to be the pros and. cons of revamping the class schedule. Tom Marino, President of the Junior Class, stated that roughly 300 students pass through Upperclass dining hall between 12:25 and 12:50. At this same time, close to 400 students are in class. With the cre- ation of a common lunch hour, those other students would be eating lunch, filling the facility to well beyond double its normal capacity. Chris Brantigan, Student Forum President, added that availability of certain classes might be compromised, creating dif- ficulty in registering for sections of science labs and card courses. \Departments like . Biology and Psychology are understaffed as it is,\ he stated, \They need to see the severity of the problem as we do.\ Marino · also cited the turnover from the present Tuesday-Thursday schedule to the proposed Tuesday-Thursday-Friday slot as an· addi- tional concern of the student body. class representative Josh Chaplin spear- headed a petition to demonstrate the lack ofs:upport for this proposal by the student body_ With the help ofHeath Fradkoff, he was able to compile over 700 signatures in a. span of four days, in spite of the stu- dents away for the Jewish holiday and the activities of Homecoming Weekend. \I don't think the AAC realized that the stu- dents would be this concerned,\ he com- mented. He went on to state that Dean Lin<la Cool \gave [him] her assurance that something like this would never happen again without more extensive student con- sultation in the face of such a major is- sue.\ l.he AAC did feel, however, that they were acting with the support of the stu- dellts and faculty, according to Dean Brad lewis. \We don't feel we did this casu- ally,\ he said, \We didn't start with the perfe<:t situation and I'm not convinced the situation will get worse.\ He maintains that the student representatives on the AAC knew about this and the Council \didn't have any reason to believe it wasn't a fair representation ofthe student body.\ Point- ing out that the original suggestion for the Tuesday-Thursday schedule change was made by one oflast year's student repre- sentatives, Lewis argues that the students' V()i<:es were considered in this decision. He counters that it was Dean Linda Cool wh() solicited the opinion of the staff dur- ing their faculty meeting in the fall. \Even though it was not an official vote, Dean Cool got a show of opinion,\ he adds, \Faculty liked the idea of a lunch hour ... and the popular 12:25 class time created a time crunch.\ However, Josh Chiiplin maintains that the \faculty don't fee I [as though] they were fully consulted. Both Chaplin and Brantigan concur that Union's Gospel Ensemble performing i11 the Nott last weekend (Pakk-Shing Hui/TC) In response to these concerns, junior continued on page 3 . IJVSIDE:. .. ·, Campus News ................................... 2 News ................................................. 3 National News .................................. 6 Op-ed ................................................. 8 Science& Technology ........................ 1 0 Features ........................................... 12 Arts & Entertainment .. . Sports ................................. . .. 15 .19

t>age 2 • October 9, '1.9'97 • 'ffilp• <.!Iotu:nrnicnsis · . Camt>tis Nen·s ' . . . ' Campus Security Info UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2!) THROUGH SUNDAY, OCTOBER 05, 1997 DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY, SEPTEMBER29, 1997: 6: 12 AM Davidson North 2:33PM West Lot 5:28PM Webster House Reamer Center 9:25PM Reamer Center TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER3(), 1997: 12:15 PM Wells House 1:00PM 5:15PM ; Davidson North 0 lin Pedestrian gate WEDNESDAY, OCTOBE:ROl, 1997: ' 2:00AM South Terrace Lane 7:00AM Olin Constrttction site · 8:28PM Davidson THURSDAY, OCTOBER ()2, 1997: 2:4 7 AM Library Lane 9:03 AM Reamer Center 11:15 AM New Entry Road 1:54PM S&E 6:24PM Fox South FRIDAY, OCTOBER 04,. 1997: 2:30 PM Webster 11:59 PM Huntley Lane area SATURDAY,OCTOBER()4, 1997: 12:05 AM Fox House 2:50AM Nott & Lenox Rd 3:00AM Raymontl South 3:06AM Chi Psi 10:05 PM Davidson North SUNDAY, OCTOBER 05,1997: 1 :21 AM Chi Psi I :40 AM Sigma Phi 2:46AM Davidson 3:58AM Campus Grounds 7:24PM Residence Hall 10:45 PM North College INCIDENT VANDALISM: Wi11dow screens cut. Attempt to enter building thwarted by windhw stQps. PROP-ERTY DAMAGE: Hlgh winds toppled a large tree which landed <m three parke<l cars causing property damag.e to the vehicles. TRESPASS: Three visitors were sitting on entry steps drinking. Identified and advised.off campus. SAFETY HAZARD-: Students sta11dihg on tables and chairs. to view perf()rrnance. N<> mjury/dar:nage occurred. , SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Stude~t r~ported unusual contact with older visitor. No untoward incident occurred. -Visitor identified and contacted regarding incident. VANDALISM: 'Towel rack and wall in 1st floQr bathroom damaged_ VANDALISM: Cllair damaged. PROPERTY MISSING: Padlock missing. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Visitor loitering around campus att~mptedt<> enter a buil<ling. Identified and advised off campu~. ·VANDALISM: G()nstruction woTker reported on-going .damage to his car. Believed to be ass<>ciated with co- worker problem. SAFETY HAZARD/SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Syringe and ·needle f()und in restr()om. VANDALISM: Tree limb broken, THEFT: StudenCs textbook stolea from storage area outside ofthe UCDH __.. PROPERTY DA:l\1:AGE: Tract()r trailer backing out of construction area struck light pole at entry gate. Pole had to be removed due to safety hazard. MINOR FIRE: Fire alarm caused by minor smoke fire in lab experiment. Controlled~no damage/injury. VANDALISM: ~indow.strucl{by paint ball. SAFETY HAZARD: Improper .disposal of authorized syringe and needle~ DRIVING VIOLflf.TION: Alumnus drove vehicle across lawn. No obvious damage noted. SUBS'}' ANCE ABUSE: Student became ill due to aicohol consumption. Paramedic:s responded. Student transported to Ellis. Conduct Charges filed. , NOISE COMPLAINT: City resident called to bitterly complain about continual noise from campus in the Nott St./ Len()X Rd. area. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Fraudulent activation. of fire alarm pull box. Life Safc;;t)' Violation Notice filed. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Smoke detector in student's room dalllaged. Life Sllfety Violation Notice filed VANDALISM/SECURITY HAZARD: Lock on 2nd floor entry door was rendered in~perable. TRESPASS/DIS()lU)ERLV CONDUCT: Univited visitor attempted to gain entry to sacial event. Caused a disturbance when asked to leave. Identified and, turned aver to alumnus who was llosting the visitor. LIFE SAFET:YVIOLATION: :Smoke detector in student's room danuged. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. SUBSTANCE AIJUSE: Student became ill due to ingestion of illegal ~ubstance. Pa.rllltledics notified. Student taken to Ellis Hospital. C()nduct Charges filed against three stude11ts. SUBSTANCE AIJIJSE: Visit<>r r~ported that he was injured as a result ()f falling dow11 while he was intoxicated. Unable to remebet StJeciflcs of incident. Transported to Ellis HospitaL PROPERTY MISSING/HARASSMENT: Student's bookbag cantaining personal pr<lperty was missing from off campus lo()ation. Student later received threatening mess!lge from persan claiming to have items. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Firstfloorbulletin board damaged. Cork sec::tion removed. T .h. w· k'· ·--IS ee s ·Campus Announcements.• An !td..:hoc committee has been fon:ned te consider the tenability ofRugh Jenki11s, As- • sistant Professor of English. The comrnittee;s members are Peter Hetnegg(Englisb), Victoda Martlnez{Modem Languages),.R. Alan Bowman(OMI) andAian Taylor·(Math- · ematics), Chair. Any member of tire campus commiinit)' wisbingto·offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Jenkins' teaching, scholarship Qr college.service should · contact Professor Taylor (x6197, taylor.a@gar.uriion.edu).or any other mernbl;}r of the . • committee. · I· . An ad-hoc conunittee has been. formed t() consiper .the tenability of Br-e!lda Jolmson, Assistal1tProfessor ofMathematics. The committee's: members are Julius Darbanel (Math- ematics), Daniel Bum~ (Psychology), .:S~riney MacDpnald (English) and J. Rich::wd · Shanebrook (Mechanical Engineering); Chair. Any memberof the .cillnpus caiiijllunity. · wishing to offerwrittenororaltestimony concemingProfessor Jobpson's teac~ing,sohol- · arsbip or college service should conta~t Profes·sor Shane\)rook {x6266, . Sh!Ule~rr@gar. union,edu)or any other member ofthe committee .. : An ad\hoc coriunittee has been formed to consider the· tenability of Ann Anderson, Assistant Professor·ofMechanical' Engineering. The committee's members are Richard; · Wilk (Mechanical Engineering),. ~ol}n'Spiiietli {EE/CS}, Kurt Holloc~er{Ge()logy) and . Sharon Gmelch (Anthropol·ogy), Chair. Any member ofth~ cl,Uilpus community wishing. to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Anderson's teadltin:g, scholarship · or colleg~ service should contact Pr:ofessor Gmelch(x6715, gmelchs@gar,union,edu) .or any other member of the cqmmittel;!. Ail ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenability of Barbara Dan~wski, Assistant Professor ofBiology. The committee's members are Barbara B()y~r(Biology); David Hemmendinger (ij.E/CS), Sigrid 'Kellenter (Modem Languages) and Kenneth • DeBono {Psychology), Chair. Any member of the campus cornnnmitr wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Danowski's teaching, s'cll()larship orcol·. ·lege service should contact Professor DeBono (x6542, debonok@ga(';UI!ion~edu) or any · other member of the: committee. . . . An ad•hoc committee has been for:rned to ~;:onsider the tenabilitY of James McWhirter, Assistant Professor -of Physics. The committee's members are KeiUieth Schick {Phys- ics), Bkram H<Issib (EE/CS),J<~n ~Lu4wig {Philosophy) and Peter Tobi~sen (Biology), Chair. Any member of th~ campus communitY wishing. to offer Mitten or <lraf testimony concerning Professor McWhirter's teaching, scholarship or college service should c<>n- tact Professor Tobiessen (x6028, tobiessp@gar;union.edu} ot any other member of the cmnrilittee. An ad-hoc committee has been fonned to consider the tenability of Mary Carnlll, As- sistant Professor of Chemistry.· 'The committee's members are Charles Scaife (Chemis- tty), John Boyer(Biology); FrankMilillo (Mechanical Engineering) and Rutll Stevenson ·I . •. (English), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing:to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Carroll's teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Stevenson {x6206; stevensr@gar.union.edu) or any other member of the committe~. An ad-hoc committee has been fonned to consider the tenability of StOJtt S<!ullie~n; As- sistant Professor o~ Classics. The committee's mempers are Mark Toher(Classics ), Wil-. liam Garcia (Modern Languages), John Garver (Geology) andJ ames Un\lerwood (Politi- cal Science), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Scullion's teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Underwood. {x6225, underwoj@gar.union.edu) or any other member ofthe committee. · An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenability of Anth~11y R11bonis, · . Assistant Professor of.Psychology. The committee's members are Suzanne Benack (Psy- . chology), Seyfollah Maleki (Physics), Mar.io Rivera (Mechanical Engineering) and Donald Arnold (GMI), Chair. Any member of the campus communitywishingto offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Rubonis' teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Amold (x6302) or any other member of the committee. I.E.F.'& Faculty R,esearch D'eadlines The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education. Foundation in- two categories-- student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is O~tober 23, 1997; Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the writte!l approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the De·an's Qffice (SlOO,. · S&E Building)'()n fonns available there~ Similarly, members ofthe College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals shouJd submit them to t,he same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (S 1 0()). ,.., The Faculty Development Cemmittee is now soliciting proposals fer faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Sorum's Office (S 100, .S&E). The deadline for submission of proposals is October 23, 1997. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Sorum. When preparing budgets, ptea5e remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $SOM85 per day. Transportati(m should also reflectthe best rates available. lfyour Jesearch includes work witll human subjects, then t~e proposals must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can.be funded by the Faculty Develop- ment Committee. TOGETHER FOR A SAFE CAMPUS Since the beginning of this academic term there have been 22 false he IF alerts sent to the campus safety department via the Code Blue emergenc) telephones located around campus. The emergency telephone system il designed to provide an expedient method to communicate a need for heli . and to receive emergency response. Prank calls are a disservice to th€ campus community and an, unnecessary waste of time and eff()rt. Pleas~ help us to help you by respecting the purpose and function of these phones Your understanding and cooperation will be greatly appreciated! .. • Tht gottel light alike· ' were .ious t ning\ nity ir folks. ticul& ing ti: of the and le ties t( So fuU o are UJ goals ment event the sc Broac Sh0W1 gettin end n leave: - N - b On ology prese1 of the at An 40 stl ered i the p \The min a Junct semii searc work years or. unde1 St. L and~ a Ph.: lowec Stanf years doing Unio Dano batic; \l~ atU: got tc Dano for i1 Unio1 St F thou~ chan! set it nentl Alth' whet! fecth a she meet what resul'

Wells House Strong in Community Involvement by Kenley Smith C(Jntributing Writer The 1:997-98 school year has gotten well underway to the de- fight of students an.d pr()fessors. alike;. one group or students who were especially excited and anx- ious to get the tenn up and run\' ning were the denizens of commu- nity involvement, the Wells House folks. This year at Wells is a par- ticularly challenging and promis- ing time as the original founders of the house all graduated last year and left Wells an~ an its complexi- ties tothe )':oung~r.members. So far the year has been packed run of events and programs that are upholding t4e traditions and goals ofthe Community Involve- ment Theme House. The first big event took place last Saturday, on the scenic off-ramp from 890 onto Broadway; the house members showed amazing enthusiasm for getting up at 9:00am on a week- end morning to pick up trash and leaves by the highway. We were all bnpr.essed with the no nonsense attitude of the new members and . ' ' . . . . \ particularly with the four int~rna­ tional students now living in Wells. The house is getting geared up for the next big community service event next weekend, the demoli- tian of a house! That's right, all members of Wells House will be spending next Saturday helping to completely dem:olis'h a Schenectady home (something rn·any people on this campus have attempted but rarely succeeded in finishing). Wells House is als.o carrying 011. with the annual programs ahd events such as involvement with the Boys and Girls Club of Schenectady, and the Zoller E1- emen.truy tuiorial program. One of the newer programs at Wells is \Claudia's Kids\ which is a com- mitment of a couple hours one af- ternoon a week to play with three children from a family in Schenectady. Their grandmother, Claudia, has been raising these three kids by herself eversince her daughter was killed. All ofth<;lse p.rograms and the up-coming Stanhope-(AAC Chair)- Explained rationale behind AAC events will be included in the,up- .f.(,le:eision to cllange Winter Schedule -Wanted to give teachers a common meeting time -Decided this was most viable schedule coming Wells House, Community Chronicle, which will be available by the·endofthis week. AU events and programs are open to the en- tire campus and students are en- Ul'Ia.Jl:lr. concern voiced about speed of process and manner in couraged to take part. So, if any . whiCh changes were implemented. of you motivated demolishers *Concern voiced about Student representation on AAC. Solo- would like to join in next Satur- day just shoulder your ax and give -Voice opinion to Student Forum JiH Hirsohenfang a calL · invited to AAC meeting ...... ,, .. A .. Rep.orts VPAdmin. VP Finance -Concert Committee lost approx. $12,000 on concert Community Involvement means more than just a few students do- ing some events in Schenectady; it means getting :the campus con- cerped and involved with the en- tire Schenectady community and · VP Social-Winter Affair/Camival (6th&7tb of Feb.)- with our own school Planning meeting Oct.2t•', 6:15 rm 205 in CC Ifyou have any ideas, sugges- -Fri. night: Casino (poss. in Nott) tions or· questions we ar~,really in- ~Sat. day: Multinational Carnival terested and we will keep the cam- night : Dance pus updated on new an:d interest- ing programs and events. Details regarding Wells House · and the demolition will appear in the upcoming the Community Chronicle. ,. Academics -Student delegation to go to AAC on l 017 Multicultural-Multicultural Affairs. Committee (MAC) rted to inuease student voiee on multicultural affairs on -Next meeting: 'Mond~y0ct.l3th in CC410 Trustees- Nerve Terminal Stability in Frogs . Events for Alcohol Awareness Week the muscle fibers in the tissue. Af- -Alumni speaking on personal experience by Alljali Balasinghani . Staff Writer On Tuesday,October 7, the Bi- ology Club sponsored a seminar presented by Dr. Elizabeth Connor of the UniversityOfMassachusetts at Amqerst. An audience of about 40 students arid professors gath- ered in BaileyHall312 to listen to the presentati.on. Entitled \The Stability ofNerve Ter~ mina]s at Neuromuscular Junctions in the Frog,\ the semimt.r was based on re- search Connor has been . working on for the past five years. Dr. Connor obtained her undergraduate. degree from St. Lawrence University, and proceeded to complete a Ph.D. in physiology, fol- lowed by post-doctoral studies at Stanford University. For about ten years, she has been teaching and doing research at U Mass, where Union's Professor Barbara Danowski met her while on sab- batical. \l spent a large amount of time at U Mass, and it was there that I got to know [Dr. Connor],\ said Danowski, who was responsible for inviting Connor to speak at Union. \I knew that she had won Students Fight Schedule- teaching awards for teaching classes with large numbers of stu- dents, and so I thol}ght [it would] be nice to have her come here.\ Connor first prese~ted the back- ground for her research on nerve terminal s~bilization by pointing out the fact that nerve connections made by motor movement dl.lfing . infancy remain intact and func- tional throughout the human life~ Her goal in as~e: 11,i ng the stability of nerve terminals in the frog was to isolate the mechanism for this maintenance. Connor and her team proposed that nerve fiber stability occurs by retrograde communica- tion between the fiber and nerve terminaL Connor then fonnulated an ex- periment to test this hypothesis. This involved isolating pectoral muscle from frogs, and destroying ter this was done, Connor deter- -Awareness about Party Serving Responsibility mined whether the nerve terminals -Brown Cup to Phi Delta Theta were stillfunctional, in spite of the absence of target cells. · Oct. 24th: pre-event campus wide moving Cocktail Party Variouscomplicationsaroseand PanHel ~Naked Truth went well were addressed. The fiber damage, for instance, had to be performed event for 9nth such that the nerve junctions were •-'-.;uu.avu Wide P,rofessor A wards still intact. Satellite cells, which re- generate the fiber basal THC -fund raiser lamina sheath, alsohad to be -Team race around Nott suppressed so that the muscle fibers would not Class Reports · grow back. Using PNA, a marker to identify the syn- Sr. Class -CCM Hats ordered apse, and FM 1-43, a lipo- Jr. Class -Oct. 17th Party philic stain, Connor moni- Class- Pre-concert BBQ went well · tored the activity of the nerve terminals over a pe- riod of several months. The results of this experi- Clark leaving January 15tll. I.F.C. minutes for 10/l/97 ment were interpreted so as to quantify the functionality of the nerve terminals as a function of . time elapsed. The calculations showed, re- Awareness week is Oct. 19th-25dt . There will be a speaker on markably, that even target-de- laJ(:onoi either Wed. Oct. 22itd or on Thurs. Oct. 23rd. prived nerve tenninals were still active and functional as long as LF .C. is looking into holding a TIPS training course for the campus five months following destruction in the college center auditorium. of the muscle fiber. Dr. Connor's research thus im-. The Brown Cup was awarded to Phi Delta Theta. The Brown Cup is plied that short-term nerve termi· '\'\'\'\' 1 \'~'~. to the best overall fraternity in the areas of academics, · nal development is independent of service, and brother participation on campus. the presence of muscle fiber. ~~r committee was formed to try and organize a campus cocktail party Oct. 24th, which is the night of the Gala. The Gala is to celebrate '\·'·''\''···~ 150 million dollars raised for the new library. Continued -: ,. ' ... \ ,. ·,· . ·~ From Page 1 .· ·T&,ere, is;a,~~~~.-porta&t ·. -~~M;~:~~m~![k.:~m~Ye···) at though it is too late to prevent the change from happening, it is not set in stone to become a perma- nent fixture in the Unioncalendar. Although Lewis is unsure of whether the new schedule will ef- . , · fectively eliminate the problem of a shortage of time for committee meetings, the AAC will evaluate.· what does improve or worsen as a.. ··· result of the changes, UJ:\\.>J·', ·.~_;t·~- ~;.)v,- .. r •• -~·-1 1 1~\i;i-.IJ,y··Dv-<· 1 ,. · · . · impo~r·taut· aew:s.·abo;ut your · · .·. ·ll'ews~pap:e~r~~<: New' writers are ,i I • \ ·····welcome.

_____,___._._-------..-Fall Term Exam Schedule~~ ~ . . - Ask Your Professor· or The Registrar's Office If You Have Any Further ,Que~tiohs MONDAY 1 NOVEMBER 17 1 1997 • 9:30•.11 :30 AM WEDNESDAY 1 NOVEMBER 1911997 • 9:30·11:30 AM ANT*010*01 Cultural Anthropology Gmelch, S. ARTS 109 IMP*011~01 ·· · · tnt Math/Physics 1 w/Lab · · · · · · Barbanei/Reich NWSE'112 BI0*024*01 Genetics w/Lab Boyer/Lauzon SSCI016 IMP*011*02 tnt Math/Physics 1 w/lab Barba net/Reich· NWSE 114 BI0*046*01 lntro to Psychobiology Weisse, C. BAIL300 MTH*010*01 Calculus 1 Taylor, A. HUMN 115 810*180*01 Biechemistry Salvo/Fox BAIL 201 MTH*Ol0*02 Calculus 1 · Bick,l BUTR300 CER*035*01 Water Resources & Environment Snow, P. BUTR.300 MTH*010*03 Calculus 1 Taylor, A, ,HUMN 115 CHN*t20*01 Intermediate Chinese 1 Feng, J.P SSCf213 MTH*010*04 Calculus t Fairchild,. W. BAIL100 CLS*021*01 History of Greece Loomis, W. HUMN 115 MTH*010*05 Calculus 1 Reynolds, P, ARTS 109 CLS*035*01 Greek & Roman Historiography Meckler, M. HUMN116 MTH*010*06 Calculus 1 Reynolds, P. ARTS 109 EER*018*01 Digital Computers w/Lab Traver, C. BAIL 106 MTH*013*01 AP Calculus Cervone, D. HUMN 117 ESC*021*01 Mechanics 1' w/Lab Bucinell, R. NWSE205 MTH*Ot3*02 AP Calculus Cervone, D. HUMN117 HST*013*01 History of US to Civil War Miller, A.T. SSCI112 MTH*013*03 AP Calculus Johnson, B. BAIL201 HST*013*02 History of US to Civil· War Stemgass, J. HUMN 117 MTH*013*04 AP Calculus Johnson,. 6. BAIL201 HST*013*03 History of US to Civil War Meade, T. ARTS 21'5 MTH*015*02 Calculus 3 Zulli, L. BUTR 1.09 HST*035*01 History of Europe 1 Hansen, E. SSCI103 MTH*015*03 'Calculus 3 Zulli;L BUTR109 HST*035*02 · History of Europe 1 Sargent, S. SSCI104 MTH*OSB-*01 Appls ·Of Math. to Eco 1 Rosenthal, K. BA!L207 HST*035*03 History of Europe 1 Halliday, P. GOLC MTH*058*02 Appls of Math to Eco 1 Rosenthal, K BAIL207 HST*151*01 Nazi Ge~many Walker, M. HUMN 0,14 MTH*099*01 lntro:Logic & Set Theory Hart, J. BAIL 106 JPN*130*01 Advanced Intermediate Japanese Khan, Y. SSCI014 MTH*099*02 Intra: logic & Set Theory Hart, J. BAIL 106 MTH*017\01 Calculus IV: Integral Vector Fairchi!(l, W. BAIL 207 PSY*025*01 Experimental Psychology w/Lab Sums,D.·J. BAIL300 MTH*017E*01 Calculus IV: Engineers Zwicker, W. BAIL 104 PHY*045*01 Solar System w/Lab Marr, J.M. NWSE 114 WEDNESDAY 1 NOVEMBER 19 1 1997 -1:30~3:30 PM PHY*160*01 Physical Optics w/Lab Maleki,S. NWSE303 CHM*010*Q,1 .. Fund\ Chemistry 1 w/Lab · Scaife, C. BUTR 204 PSY*030*01 Personality Donaldson, G. BAIL 1'00 CHM*010*02 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab Hqgerman, M. BUTR 204 PSY*038*01 Developmental Psychology Stanhope, L. BAI~ 312 CHM*010*03 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab Anderson, J. SUTR 204 PSY*046*01 lntro to Psychobiology Weisse, C. BAIL300 CHM*Ol0*04 Fur:~d Chemistry 1 w/Lab Lou,K. BUTR 204 CHM*030*(l1 Organic Chern 1 w/Lab Adrian, J. SSCI 016 MONDAY. NOVEMBER 17 1 1997-1:30-3:30 PM CHM*030*02 Organic Chern 1 w/Lab Hull, L. SSCI 016 ANT*010*02 Cultural Anthropology Gmelch, S. SSCI112 MTH*119*01 Topics inDiscrete Mathematics Taylor, A. BAIL104 CHN*010*01 ·Basic Chinese 1 Feng, J.P HUMN 113 PHY*020*01 General Physics 4 w/Lab Khosropour, R. NWSE328 EC0*033\*01 Public Policy & Amer Industry Klein, D. HUMN 014 EGL*044*01 En~ightenment & Romanticism Heinegg, P. HUMN112 WEDNESDAY. NOVEMBER19 1 1997 .. 7:00·9:00 PM ESC*020*01 Mechanics 2 King, F. BUTR 109 EGL-022-02 Major American Authors Slade; L. HUMN 11-2 ESC*025*01 Electric Circuits w/Lab Chang, Y. NWSE 114 FRN*131*01 Survey of French Literature 1 Curran, A. HUMN 213 THURSDAY 1 NOVEMBER 20 1 199.7 • 9:30·11 :30 AM GE0*022*01 Geomorphology/Surficial Geo Rodbell, D. BUTR201 MH*025*01 · 17 & 18 C European Art .Eyerman, C. ARTS215 GER\120*01 Intermediate Germ(ln 1 Hamm·£hsani, K HUMN 119 AMU*020*01 Music History & Lit 1 · McMullen, D. ARTS313 GER*121*01 Intermediate German 2 Hamm-Ehsani, K HUMN119 BI0*144\01 Cytologyw/Lab .Smith, G. BAIL tOO GRK*010*01 Principles of Greek 1 Mace, S. SSCI105 CER*143*01 Foundations & Constrw/Lab Ghaly 1 A. BUTR300 JPN*010*01 Basic Japanese 1 Khan, Y. HUMN 116 EC0*012*01 Introduction to Economics .Fried, H. HUMN 114 MER*030*01 Dynamics of Systems w/Lab Rivera, M. NWSE210 Eco·o2o•o1 Intra to Statistical Analysis Schmidt, S. HUMN 019 PHY*014*01 Atoms, Lasers, Quasars Schick, K. NWSE303 EC0*031*01 Microeconomic Analysis Schmidt, S;J. SSCI104 PSG*161*01 Public Opinion & Pol Psych Brown, C. HUMN 117 EC0*042\01 Macro Theory & Policy Motahar, E. HUMN014 PSY*010*02 lntro to Psychology Stanhope, L. BAIL312 EER*060*01 System Theory II w/Lab . Rudko, M. NWSE210 PSY*033\02 Psychology of Memory/Thinking Burns, D. J. BAIL300 ESC*016*01 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 1 w/Lab Milillo, F. NWSE 110 RUS*010*01 Basic Russian 1 Jordan, B. SSCI 012 ESC*016*02 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 1 w/Lab Snow, P. NWSE 110 SPN*121*01 Intermediate Spanish 2 Camacho, L. BAIL 201 ESC*016*03 Fundamentals of EngtCS 1 w/Lab Williams, G. NWSE 110 SPN*122*01 Advanced Spanish lorre~s. B. BAIL 104 ESC*016*04 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 1 w/Lab Hassib, E. NWSE110 SPN*130*01 lntro:Spanish & Spn Amer Lit Martinez, V. HUMN 110 : ...... Strat Oep Env of East NY w/Lab Garver,. J. 1:. BUTR201 GE0*021*01 SPN*132*01 Spanish Peninsular Lit 1 fzurieta, I. HUMN 019 PSY*035*01 Industrial/Organization Psych Nydegger, R. BAIL 201 SOC*153*01 · Soc of Di~abled & Handicapped Weiner, T. SSCI110 MONDAY 1 NOVEMBER 17 1 1997 -4:30·6:30 PM CSC*010*01 Computers & Computing Almstead, L. BAIL.207 THURSDAY 1 NOVEMBER 20 1 1997- 1:30•3:3().PM CSC*01 0*02 Computers & Computing Almstead, L. BAIL207 AAH*045*01 · Contemporary Arlin America· · · Eyerman, G. ARTS215 C.SC*010*51 Computers & Computing Hedrick, J. BAIL201 ACC*010*01 · Survey. of Accounting Neidenneyer, P. HUMN 014 ATH*020*01 History of Theatre Rose~cl. YULM TUESDAY~ NOVEMBER 1811997 • 9:30-11:30 A.M CHM*013*01 AP Chemistry Carroll, M. BAIL 102 AAH*011*01 fntro Art History -1 Matthew, L. ARTS215 CSC*03r01 Structured Programming Green,.E; 'NWSE 116 AMU*012*01 Language of Music McMullen, D. ARTS 313 EC0*012*02 Introduction to Economics Fried; H. SSCI104 BI0*010\02 Intra to Biology 1 w/Lab Brown, G. SSCI016 EC0*03~*02 Microeconomie Analysis Schmidt, S.J. HUMN 115 810*053*01 Northeast Forests w/Lab Tobiessen, P. SWSE322 EC0*144*01 International Economics Motahar, E. BAIL 100 BI0*066*01 Darwin's Legacy w/Lab Minorsky, P. STZH 106 GMI*144*51 lntemational Economics Motahar, E. BAIL100 810*162*01 Neurobio!ogyw/Lab Olberg, R. BUTR300 PHL*014*01 Introduction to Ethics Baker, R. HUMN 114 CER*128*01 Structural Analysis Mafi, M. BUTR 109 PHL*070*01 History & Phil of Modem Sci. Ludwig, J. - SSCI213 CHM*142*01 Chern Instrumentation w/Lab Werner, T. STZH 108 PSC*049*01 Middle East Politics Lobe, T. SSC! 103 CLS*026*01 Classical Literature Toher, M. SSCI 014 PSY*010*03 fntro to Psychology Spring, 0. BAIL 201 EGL *036A *0 1 African-American Lit I Pavlic, E. HUMN 115 PSY*049*01 Psychology of Addiction Dowling,T. BAIL312 GE0*010*01 Physical Geology w/Lab Hollocher, K. BUTR201 GRK*120*01 Attic Prose Toher, M. SSC1 014 FRIDA VI NOVEMBER 21! 1997 .. 9:30•11:30 AM HST*072*01 Early Jewish History · Berk, S. COLC AMU*031\.01 Music of Black America Olsen, T. ARTS215 HST*086*.01 The Nuclear Age Walker/Shanebrook HUMN 014 ANT*016*01 Prehistory Walker, M. HUMN 014 LAT*010*01 Principles of Latin 1 Scullion, J.S SSCI 012 810*067*01 Bio:Healtn & Fitness w/Lab Crawford, A. BAIL 1.0Q MER*040*01 Engineering Design1 w/Lab Blinn,M. NWSE210 EC0*012*03 lntmduction to Economics McCarty, T. SSCI016 PHL*011*01 History Western Philosophy 1 Patrik, L. HUMN 117 EC0*012*04 Introduction to Economics McCarty, T.. SSCI 016 PHY*015*01 Physics/Life Sciences 1 w/Lal> Topor, N. NWSE 114 EGL*039*01 European Novel in Translation Heinegg, P; HUMN 115 PHY*016*02 Physics/Life Sciences 2 w/Lal> Newman, J. NWSE 116 FRN*012*01 Basic French 3 Dogbe, c. HUMN 114 PSC*013*01 Intra to Political Thought Marso, L. SSCI103 GER-*139*01 German Exile Lit Kellenter, S. HUMN 119 PSY*010*01 Intra to Psychology Marling, B. BAIL 312 GER*149*01 Das deutsche Exile Kellenter, S. HUMN 119 SOC\010*02 Intra to Sociology Cotter, D. SSCI112 HEB*010*01 6asic Hebrew 1 Almog,M. HUMN 116 SPN*120*01 Intermediate Spanish 1 Moyano, P. HUMN 110 HST*012*01 Prehistory: Walker, M. HUMN 014 SPN*120*03 Intermediate Spanish 1 lzurieta, I. HUMN 019 HST*018*01 Progressive Era & World War I Henry, S. BAIL 201 SPN\149*01 Lit of Hispanic Caribbean Garcia, W. HUMN 112 HST*022*01 Civil War & Reconstruction Dudden, F.. SSC1103 JPN*120*01 Intermediate Japanese 1 Khan, Y. HUMN 113 TUESDAY 1 NOVEMBER 18.1997 ·1:30·3:30 PM PHY*048*01 Intelligent· life in Universe Schick, K. NWSE 114 810*010*01 Intra to Biology 1 w/Lab Tobiessen, P. SSCI 016 PSC*082*01 Health Politics &.Policy Weiner,T. HUMN 117 BI0*032*01 Camp Vertebrate Anatomy w/Lab. Butterstein, G BAIL 201 SOC*060*01 Quantitative Social Research Cotter, D. HUMN 019 CER*160*01 Transportation Engg w/Lab Wolfe, F.A. BUTR 109 EC0*032*01 Labor & Industrial Relations Prosper, P. SSCI103 FRIDA Vi NOVEMBER 21 1 .1997 ·1:30-3:30 PM EC0*145*01, Managerial Economics Kenney, J. SSCI110 AAH*026*01 · History of Architecture Matthew, L. ARTS215 EER*063\01 Desgn of Electronic Circ w/Lab Hassib, E. NWSE210 CER*147*01 Mgmt of.Constr Project w/Lab Laplante, C. HUMN 014 EGL*024*01 Modern American Lit Pavlic, E. HUMN 116 EC0*063*01 Economics· of. Health Lambrinos, J. BAIL 100 FRN*010*01 Basic French 1 Scheuer, A. HUMN 117 EERf124*0.1 lntro to Probabilistic Systems Spinelli, J. STZH 108 FRN*120*01 Intermediate French 1 Dogbe,C. SSCI 014 EGL*019*01 Major English AuthOrs 1 Hilles, C. HUMN116 FRN*120*02 Intermediate French 1 Curran, A. . SSCI 010. EGL*056*01 Shakespeare .after 160() Jenkins, H • HUMN114 GER*010*01 Basic German 1 Hamm-i:hsani, K SSCI112 ESC*021*02 Mechanics 1 w/Lab Keat, W.O. NWSE205 GER*010*02 Basic German 1 Hamm~Ehsani, K SSCI112 HST*112*01 American labor History Henry, S. SSCI103 GER*012S:Q1 Basic German 3 Giguere, U. SSCI 012 LAI*130*01 Catullus &-Horace Me.ckler, M. HUMN213 HST*043*01 Europe in the Early Modem Era Hansen, E. SSCI104 PHL*046*01 Art, Media and Society Patrik, L HUMN·019 MER*026*01 Thermodynamics Wilk, R. NWSE222 PHY*017\'01 General Ptlysics 1 Jones, C. -NWSE 112 PSY*020*01 Statistical Methods/Psychology Greenberg, S. BAIL300 PHY*017*02 General Physics 1 - Maleki, S. NWSE 114 PSY*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K BAIL312 PHY*017*03 General Physics 1 w/Lab Rodriguez, G. NWSE300 PSY*034*01 Psychology of Language DAndrea, T. BAIL 106 PSY*024*02 Social Psychology Marling, B. _ .BAIL 300 SOC*024*01 Social Psychology. · OeBono, K. BAIL 312 PSY*031*01 Abnormal Psychology Donaldson, G. BAIL 312 SPN*010*02 Basic Spanish 1 Garcia; W. HUMN 112 SOC*024*02 Social Psychology Morling, B. BAIL300 SPN~012*01 Basic Spanish 3 Camacho,L HUMN 114 SPN*122*02 Advanced Spanish Martinez, V. HUMN 110 SPN•t20*02 Intermediate Spanish 1 Moyano,P. HUMN 115 ~- - Gu1 At~ Pub ' up a was ad~ \gh capi doo scril ass a dad wor attri

. . Local News I Advertisements . U:lp' U:uncnruimsis • .October 9, 1997 • [>age 5 Local News In Review Compiled·by Michael DeMicco . Gunman'bold$ np Alb~n.y Bar; · trolls chased the gunman but lost old Mabee Farm house which is makes off with $1,000 him as he ran down Thatcher to- said to be the oldest house in the ward Broadway. The man, who At 9.:40pm, the Thatcher Stre«;!t faces felony char:ges, is still at Pub had· one of its barmaids held large~ up atgunpQint, The gunman, wbt> was in his late20''s,pointed a rifle at Jackie Saleh, 43, and said to h.er 1 'give me all of the money.\ She capitulated.andhe made-offoutthe door with $1,000. Ms. Saieh de- scribe the gunman described the assailant as a 6- foot tall, 17 5 pt>und dark-skinned black man. He alst> WOf~ C}~thing tO conceal nis facial attributes. Two ofthe five bar pa:- Indi~n Center in Rotterdam? State officials are planning to fund the environmentalbondact, which has. a. stipulation that W()uld pass money to ht~ild an Iroqu()is cultural center along the Moh~wk River. With the passage of this bill, Rep- licas ofthe original Iroctuois long houses would b.e built 11ext to the region. This center is expected to draw many visitors to the ·re- gion which would stimulate commerce. This project is ex .. pected to be under the control ofthe Schenectady County His- torical Society. New problems .for the Pet Cemetery from hell New revelations have developed ill the investigation of the pet cemetery· accused of dumping COSTA RIC A Study Paradise this Spring The O.rganization for Tropical Studies in partnership with Duke University offers a field-oriented: semester abroad program in tropical ecology and Latin American _cultu~e. Students earn 16 credit hours in biology, environmental science,~. C~nd Spanish lc;mguage & culture. Credits ma.y be transferred from Duke. ., hancb·on I:Jiology ~ cultural lmm•rsion • field .trip• • independent projeds • remote field sites • r•search • •xotic wildlife ;Fo:r brqchure dnd application materials, c!ontad Organization for Tropical Studies, Dllke University · Box 90633, Durham N\C 27708-063.3 . Tel: (919) 68~-577 Ai E~ail: <n~o@aepub.duko.edu> http://www .ots.duke. edu Application dea~line fQr 1998 Spring ssmcster i5 October 15, 1997. carcasses of fflmily pets into mass graves. Th.{l ;tttorney general\ s of- fice made statements on Monday on their recent(lll<iings of medical waste at the cemetery site. Amongst the graves were hypodermic needles, cancerous tultl~rs, vaccine vials, and animals that had died from rabies. Officials ha\e ~t.ssured the public that there is no dang-er to the underground water supP'l¥ but they are taking samples tornalte sure oftheir claim. l)is11e_y ~trikes again The Schenec:t~tdy based company, Team Stick, is suing the Disney Company for their use of the Swalhili term, Hak~na Matata. Team Stick is made up of 18 run· ners from Kenya who currently live in Schenectady and Scotia. They use the phrase for their line of clothing and other promotional materials. They have entered the suit with Disney because they have held the trade mark patent for the phrase since 1993. Disney's movie, The Lion King; which popularized the term, did not get released until 1994. Betlumy Ca.nlrdge In-line skate/: 1~bal1 slugge1: Drunk driving victim . .Jt~~~uary 18, 1994 Cheralv,SC If you don't stqpsmncone from driving dmnk, who \Viii? Do whaLever it takes. ';,,, a:t'}i Go: a ••3• i;1' a:' •}'•' t1 ''' t•J ;tu:nt 0 Domino's Pizza 716 State Street Schenectady, NY Union College Specials!! Buy 2 Medium Handtossed Pizzas With 1 Topping On Each $9.99+Tax ~uy 1 :Large Handtossed Plain Pizza $6,99+Tax Pl1one: (518)372-4441 Store Hours: Mon-Thur 4:30PM-2:00AM Fri-Sat 11AM-2AM Sun 11AM-1AM

- .. ' . P~tgc 6 • October 9, 1997 • [l!l' <Ltnt.rnr0il'ltsts . . National NcHs National News A New Concordy Series: \Around The Globe\ by Jay Connelly Contributing Writer Here at Union, it is all too easy to become isolated from the out- side world. The cast iron fence that surrounds this tiny campus is, in ~;eality, a symbol ofour ignorance; our unwillingness to accept that the real world exists. So content are we in our little fishtank, that the school newspa- per could not even find a World News journalist. Perhaps the out- side world does not matter 'here,' hut it should, because it greatly ef- fects our parents, friends and rela- tives that live in it. Therefore, in an effort to make the news seem fun, I will no longer let UN Movements in Bosnia headline the news. In- Th ., .. e Chelsea Chrohicles • C I ... ''1) ,~ roliSci 101 stead, I will provide a st()ry or two on the news out of Boston and New York (where many of us are from), WaShington, and news out .of the countries where Union stu- dents are currently abn)ad. In ad- dition, at the end of tb.e column there will be a story on the craziest thing that happened in Schenectady that week. That should always be interesting. So lets go around the globe: . Boston: In a horrible irrcident, IQ ... year-old Jeffrey Curley was alleg- edly abducte'd by two men who lured him with promises of a new bike. The men supposedly brought him to an apartment where he was sexually assaulted, gagged with gasoline soaked rags, which led to &He 7 S~- .. CQs .· ' ·~ LPs,(·NlDEOS .&- CASSETTES ·'l'. Buy;·Sell Trade H Hard to find titles ' ~ ~ : ,...~- ......... ,. .. } ............ $7.99 ea .. or •' ......... : .......... ,~~~ $2,99 ea. or ts~tte~et COs ......... ~~~·;;··$·3 ea. or VIDEOS ......... 2 for $10 We Have Current Vinyl . Clifton Clifton Park, his death. The boy's father is ask- ing authorities to consider bring- ing a federal death penalty case against the men. Capital punish- ment is illegal in Mass., and the case would have to be handed over to the feds in order to for the ac- cused men to receive what the boy's family feels is a just punish- ment. are still on the payroll. Warning: Those things placed ,between a rock and hard place usually get squished. Israel: More concern for aU of those students who, despite recent events, still went abroad. An Is- raeli spy-ring was busted earlier this week in their attempt to poi- son a Palestinian leader. The ef.:. NewYorlc:NewYorkpolicecom- fects of this development may missioner Howar~ Safir has come cause h()stilities similar to those in · under attack ·for his hard-nosed late August However, the latest policy of dismii:)Sing corrupt cops. · · indica,tions were that hostilities However the atta~ks are coming may have been avoided because fr.om all sides. Many _in the New · Israel was compelled to release a York area are afraid he is being to hostage and provide the antidote quick to take away an officers .as punishment. badge. Others are angry that many of the men and women disntissed England: No surprise there. The lead story out of England is Prin- , cess Dianarelatedforthe fifth week in a row. The.c~.untry is in uph~aval · beeaus.e some()ne dared to make a profit by releasing an update to her biography. ·Washington: Republicans con- tinue to questiotfBill Clinton's role · in- the John Huang scandal. Tapes from the ova.foffid~·show President Clinton shaking Mr. Huang hand during acoffee held in May ofl996. . Schenectady Aitea: This vye~k in niy .hometown .area, a pit fuU of dead animals was found in. the · · Saratoga vicinity. The animals were· all decapitated. Futtherinfon:nation on this bizarre inc.ident was' notavailabie_c:lt :print time.> Bu.\ ldi,:.' a·_ b~; <l3e · . .to ~« z. \$T 'e~t~rt h~s b•eft o.P ~.Aottwv>st tN\to,~t~hu~<.! Skydiving?! llianes burg Skydiving 27 Years in· Business [5181 885-,8140 15 Minutes From campus [Down Route71 ' . Open Seven Days College Rep Wanted!!

' '' ' ~·. . - .:~·--~ :.',,··,.:. ··,.·::' l:,~·····h·:·:· .. ·.- ... · .. ,,,' :· /'·':::.· .... <.:·.;:.:~~·-~,.· . . ·· · ·.· ·.·· · · -:: , : · ·· .o..~£\:s· · .. ·a·· .. · .·s· -·~·'; ~?/,:,. · . ,.. . .. . .J.ii~!..!~- ..... 0&·.' . : . . '. . .. · .. ~ace . . ~ ... . . . A new·- and different Dessert Shop J.ealurin9 • Italian Pastries - Fruit Tarts - Can.noli Rum Cakes - Wine Biscuits • Lemon Bars - Tea Breads ·- .Muffins Breakfast Buns • Over 10 Varieties of In-house Baked Biscotti, · • Toblerone- Rum &.Irish Cream Candies .. Ch·ocolate Covered Cordials - Fudge Chocolate Covered Pretzels Specialty.Gift Baskets - and so much more Free Coffee available· all day Hours Monday - Friday 9am - Spm Saturday 9am - Spm Sunday lOam 3pm Located· Inside Salamack's Card & Gift Shop 1613 Union Street - Schenectday - 346 .. 55,03

·•· Page 8 • Octobe-1\ 9, 1997 ·. illl1c <.!Iomoroh-n9b:; · . _ . . OJ>/ED ·. A Message To Union Seniors This past Homecoming Weekend, we as present students got the chance to share. in the professional and social experiences of Union alumni. Some of these individuals walked these halls be., fore some of us were even born, while others are recent graduates. For three days ofthe year we invite them back to see how Union has evolved since their time here as a result of their influence and ours. Seniors are fast approaching this status, and along with it come many newfound responsibilities. Many of us have heen involved with various activities since our freshman year, while others are franticaily joining every club on campus to pad their resumes. We · try to keep up with everything we used to do and take on even more. What used to be one or two club meetings a week with an occasional weekend event becomes seven or eight obligations that now test just how good our time management skills are on a daily basis. In between these activities, some seniors resort to pitching a tent at the Career Development Center and moving in, refusing to . leave until they get hired somewhere or they run out ofbinders to browse through. Others can be found rummaging through what's left of our library in desperate attempts to pull together a thesis. We get stressed out and lose sleep like its our job, and we may forget where exactly it was where the kid in us left off and the adult took over. We all have made an impact on this school, from carving the smallest initials in the tables at the Skellar to changing the policies . of the administration. Our efforts are far-reaching, extending into every possible academic and social corner of this campus. It is very easy, however, in the midst of the insanity that is our sched- ules, to forget what it is that draws alumni back every year. Together, we are the reason that we're all going to have some shred of sanity left by the end of the year. It is the friendships we form and the lessons we learn from each other that makes this place more than just a piece of paper to hang on our office ~all in . I 0 years, but someplace we can truly consider home. For this rea- son, I urge all students, but especially seniors, to take the time to · step back away from the whirlwind of things pushing us to leave and appreciate the people that keep our hearts forever here. AMQ The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Aiieen Quigley, Frank Rossi EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Matt Cohen Amy DiBattista EXECUTIVE EDITORS Christopher Leone }yJANAGJNG EDITOR P-eter Simon OPINIONS EDITOR Lori Green KimRohback ARTS& ENTERTAINMENT EDITORS Dan Queen Geoff Sullivan SPORTS EDITORS Tatiana Cogevina Rob Hagopian COMPUTER MANRS. Michelle Tham FEATURES EDITOR Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Amy DiBattista COPY EDITOR Laurie Kirschner Dave Meguerdicbian PHOTOED/TORS PHOTOGRAPHERS: Rick Lederer, Maria Guinle, Aaron Br~tunstein STAFF: Josh Adams, Anjali Balasingham, Kelen Barr, Hannah Bium, Jamie Chandler, Shana Dangelo, Mike DeMicco, Gabriela Dory, Jason Everett, Adrian MacLean, Erika Mancini, Pike Mody, Nick Papanickolas, Eugene Schultz, Stdanie Speanburg, David Weiner, Neha Shah, Lisa Pertoso, Victoria Hargreaves, Maura Wittbold, Rebecca Thyresson, Stephanie Slobotkin, Jon Gasthalter. .. • • lnzons 0 \.JE S\ HI\ 1\\BUR.GERS PLANT ' New Sections, Same Schtuff Editors,. A few \p()intless\ questions: why title an article \Pointless Observations\ when \Sheltered Rich-Kid Receives Bitter Taste of Reality's Wrath\ would be more apt? And perhaps the article \Things 1 Like/Love ab()ut Union the Great\ should have been filed under opinion,, and called \Banality: A Memoir?\ By the way, what is ··union the Great?\ Am I part of it? Mere to the point, what sort of journalism are we striving for here'? A few constru.ctive considerations: you could change the Features Section to the Personal Ramblings Section and · stick it in the back with the movie reviews. Granted, some articles would then be h()meless, so you could create a Humor/ Perspectives Section for the likes of Mohmar and Ms. Tham. And if ambition is high, also create a Wahh! Section, subsidiary of the Opinions Se(tion, for misdirected complaints and articles which compare th:e creativity of the student body to that of the CDC. Note that tosave space, the Wahh! Section cou.ld probably be combined with the Personal Ramblings Section. But befMe 1 ramble off, I should explain my suggestions. In regard t() the career fair, Mr. Leone: it is unfortunate that engineers are immensely more marketable than libera:l arts students, as you circuitously pointed out, but it is also probably true that the CDC brought in as many employers as were interested. Maybe there just isn't a big demand for liberal artists? By the way, grad school can pay-· . get a teaching assistantship. As for your adventures, Mr. Kay; it is ap. unfortunate fact that yo.u are a resident of a: fairly sketchy town, as you (pointle&sly~ point out. But what are you trying to say? What do you mean by \a big dark guy?\ And the moral of your story, that due to potentially uncomfortable situations~ one should \never go into Schenectady ever again\ is fascinating. Next time, bring a friend or two and pull a Nancy Reagan: say no, it works. But maybe I'm way out of line. It occurs to me that this article may have been a stab at humor, in which case I apol()gize for missing it, and note that it's placement in the proposed Humor Sec.tion would have greatly increased reader comprehension (however, placing it in the proposed Wahh! Section would have greatly increased the journalistic accuracy of. the Cor.zcordy). • In consolation to Ms. Wittbold regarding the Ignorant Freshman tirade .. .! could apologize for my . fell~w upperclassmen, but better still, you might try to see the comedy at hand here: ignorant freshman wear college sweats and write novels at the email booths, and worldly upperclassmen are lame enough to point it out. Really, it'·s just not worth your time or emotional energy to get riled by the more hitter folk in the world. Besides, give yourselftwo years and you' II be setting the tone on campus. What I'm getting at is that perhaps some opinions should be more carefully thought-out before they are printed at out collective expense (as in our reputation). Freedom ofthe press is fine; it's just that this paper is a reflection of our school, and lately parts of that reflection have been pretty pathetic. Finally, I realize that it might be somewhat hypocritical for me to submit an opinion in which I criticize the opinions of others, and possibly add to what I · have just labeled \pretty pathet~c.\ But hey, maybe you could create a new Paradox Section and stick this in it. Peter Sorensen '98 Letters Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OPIED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue. that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed and saved on a high density disk although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board .. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority ofthe Editorial Board, and'no one member in · particular, Any opinion columns, or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. ·Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is printed by World Media,. ll ()4 Central A venue, Albany, NY, 12205. The Conc()rdiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service;, & King Syndicates . - Tl De; Le1 wishi CDC Th, CentE acees: infon is on~ a nun stud~ emplc purp explo prep; in ten empl1 to pre gradt whic oppo Festi' o.ppo prac1 prof1 settin posit empl how this ; (whi( in ten Ea rang1 mon grad actua find; interc your diffe ex an COni I servi man; they• patte them they anoi COnSl larg• recn num class In m the s SUCC• w prog stud1 to b~ inte1

OP/ED . {l;lfl' <!lonrnroh'nsis · October 9, 1997 · P~tgc 9 0 • • tnzons The CDC Helps Stu~ents Get Up And Do Something De~r Editor, ~xperience before their senior .Let me resp1md to those year. lheCDC has major listings not see, or care to see, are very by Chris Leone wishing to understand how the of intemships (over 1000 listed important in the whole educa- Managing Editor · CDC h~lps liberal arts majors. from our database, and ()ver 2,500 tional process. The Career Development listedthrough a consortium of25 The people who know me on While we are all here for dif· Centerprovides,many avenues of select liberal arts colleges, with this campus, realize that I am a· ferentreasons, manyrefusetoad~ accessto employers and employer more coming on line as we link sarcastic student who enjoys tear- mittoa simple fiu,:t,tbatthe whole information. The Career Festival electronically with a network of ing apart the administration. student body received a gift when is one ofthese. 'The Festivai has t.fniversities across1he country). While these attacks are a world they decided to go to college. anumberofpurposes: to provide We also have speakers each offun, the recent parents we.~k- That gift is the costoftuition. For students with easy access to term todiscusscareerfields. This end brought something else into some students that gift may come employers/graduate prqgrams for ternt you will note that we just had mind. from their parents. For others it purposes of research . and a program on Wall Stre.et careers With that said, here is an article maybe a gift from the alumni who e~ploration, to encourage student with alumni over Homecoming that I wrote some weeks ago. All make financial aid possible. preparation with resum.e and Weekend. We also have the exces·s money spent last lfyou lookatitintermsofdol- interviewing skiJls to nieet with scheduled speakers on· Sales/~ weekend .makes this even more Iars, that yearly gift is in theneigh- employers/gradllate schools, and Marketing and Advertising. We relevant. borhood of $30,0()0. Unless you to provide inteFested empley.ers/ work with departments to put on * * * * * * are independently rich, that is one graduate schoo1s.w.ith a venue in programs-entitled 'What Can I Do. hell of a nice gesture on which to promote their With A Major In ... ?' and ·look Two years goes along like the someone's part. (:)pportunities t~ students.. The forward to collaborating with the wind,. especially when you are in Instead of just basking in the Festival is aiway~ a won<:ferful History Department in the coming college. My first weeks as a fresh· generosity and spending all the opportunity for students to months. man (yes, Ms. Whitbold I was a free time doing nothing, how practice. . speaking with · Seniors have the opportunity to freshman) were spent finding about giving something back. It pro.fessionals in an informal . meet with employers both on- things to do in Schenectady. does not have t.o be money, a setting to explore interests and campus and off-campus. This What I came to understand, simple donation oftime to one of positions. And 1 must say that year a particularly wide variety of through a long process, is that , several worthy h>calcauses can go employers were impressed with employers looking for liberal arts While it may not be beautif!JI it is further than a hage check. · bow professional students were students will he in New York and home for nine months of the year. If you look in the ~inceton Re- this year in meeting with them Boston as indicated in our ad in . After weeks of searching view, one .of the negative issues (which bodes w~ll for their future this week's Concordy. Other · around and complaining aboutthe surrounding Union is that rela- interest in Unioll). access points for liberal arts · downtown attractions, I then tions with the surrounding com- Each year we invite a wide emplQyers are those fisted in the · asked why am I here? Was it a munity barely exist. It is true that range of representatives, many_. Liberal Arts Career Network . · big lie by the admissions office Schenectady is .a depressed area more employe,rs ( 420+) and through our homepage,also listed that drew me to the school. If you and for many students just a place graduate schools (250+) than in Job Choices, a publication we follow the administration direc- outside the protective gates. It actually participate. As you will purchase for seniors which tions to the college you never will does not have to !)e like this. find as you r~seatch your field of identifies potential employers, see the county jail three blocks Take a organ.ization like Big interest through the CDC and on and in other directories at the from Friendly's. In a four year Brother Big Sister which helps several options on campus groups including the highly commend- able We Care About U Schenectady. A phone call and possibly a gift of three hours a week is not much to give back. Taking a kid to a park, museum, library, or a movie is not a chore. We have all been through childhood and can prob- ably agree it was not always easy. Let us use our gifts and experi- ences to help others. Union and Schenectady could have a great relationship, but it starts with the students wanting to help instead of complain. Donating time to the commu- nity is more than just putting on a public show. It is not a way to meet girls or gain respect with the administration. It is a way to help those who receive very few gifts. in life. I have not lost my mind after my last two articles; it is time to tell it like it is about certain issues. We at Union should no longer pride ourselves at turning our heads to problems. When you have something and it goes away. or you go away, you learn to appreciate that something. With that in your mind, think about those who do not have that something and may never have a chance to get it. your Qwn, different fields have CDC. span, the chance of citing a,Union kids either living in poverty or * * * * * * different hiring strategies. For Another important resource is student on the :grounds of hailing ifom b,ro.ken homes. ,.With To those who wish to complain example,. adve.rtising, the alumni network, both the . Humilton Hill is nil Heck most out proper guidance and support about what I write, I offer these communications, and human. Union Career Advisory Net)Vork students _only go there for a soci- from volunteers~ the chance for words of wisdom once writen by service agencies often receive (U* CAN) found on ·our ology project, and even a few lie these children to ever reach a Julia Moore. many more· resumes daily than .. computers in themediaareaofthe about there visit. school like Union is impossible, \I wish to make no en~mies they can process and have staffing CDC, and the general listings at What has become aparent to me If a person wanted to help and throughout my native land. Kind patterns that make it difficult for the CDC. over the last few years is that this donate time, the options in the friends, now l close my ryme, and them to appear at.a Festival; also. We are eager to work with studentbody, especially Mr. Kay, area are endless. Tbere are home- lay my pen aside. Between me they tend to hire when they have liberal .arts· and engineering are very sheltered. They do not less shelters, elderly homes, and and my critics I leave you to de- an opening. Othe! fields, such as students to help you identify and ~re~a~li~e~t~h~at~t~h~e~~· ~~th~a~t:_:w~e~d:.::o~_:a:.:.::::::::!:=::.· ...:T:.:h.::a::.t .:;is:..:n.::o:.:t.:to:.m:.::.::e.:.:nt::io::n::.___:C:::id~e::.:..'_' --------~ consulting or finance, may. have target the employers of your larger hiring needs, larger choice. Call x6176 to set up an recruiting staff, and hire large appointment with a. Career numbers to .go into training Advisororcemeinfor L5minotes classes at certain times of the year. during drop-in hours, from 3- In many cases 1 employers go to 5pm, Monday through Friday. the schools where they have had We look forward to working with success in recruiting in the past. you to assist you in reaching your With regard. to the issue about goals, programming for liberal arts students, we encourage students to begin researching their career interests and gaining relevant Sincerely, Joanne Tobiessen, Director Career Development Center Plutonium In Space!! Dear Editor, The Rus.sian Mars 96 space probe crashed to earth carrying plutonium batteries. Initially, it was said to have fallen into the Pacific Ocean. Later, it was re- vealed to have scattered debris over the Atacama Desert in Chile and Bolivia. Now, in October there is the scheduled Cassini probe to Saturn carrying seventy-twqo pounds of plutonium. This probe will orbit Venus twice and come hurling ba¢k at Earth to get the gravita- tional boostto get to Saturn. What ·if something goes wrong and it vaporizes in the earth's atmo- sphere? What is the Titan rocket carrying the Cassini probe ex- plodes on the launch pad spread- ing radioactive dust over much of Florida? Plutonium is one of t~e most dangerous substances know. Dr. Helen Calsicott, founder of the Physicians for Social Responsibil- ity, bas stated 'that one pound of plutonium if evenly distributed among the Earth's population as inhalable dust partides would be enough to gi've everyone lung cancer. None of this is considered seri- ous enough by our free, indepen- dent, objective and piercingly in- vestigative media to make the evening news. They would rather talk about Tiger Woods or some other celebrity. I fear that this may be just the prelude to nuclear weapons in space and nuclear- powered rockets. Some very rich and powerful men are playing Russian Roulette with life on Earth, and it is occurring in abso- lute media silence. What an Orwellian World it is· becoming! Sincerely, Gary Sudborough Bellflower, Ca.

P·~~g.e 10 • 0cfober'9, 19()7 • 'illlv ([l,mot·hil'rt$ts - . . · · · . · . . · Science and Technology Science & Technology Geek Speaks: Understanding ResNet & E-Mail by Jennifer Trotts Staff Writer As an ItNC(Residential Network Consultant) at Union, I have en- countered many people in times of crisis with their computers. There are two main types of trouble calls that we get: l.\l did everything I was sup- posed to and it stiH won't work.\ 2.••ummm, 'I can't install my email, can yo:u help me?\ Now, the first type of calls we accept as the result of an imperfect world and keep us employed. It is the second type that I would lilce to addiess. Some other choice messages we often receive are; \The Internet is broken\~ \I can't get idol to work\ \I had a friend down the hall help me and now my printer and sound don't work\ and finally, getting straiglltte the point, \I'm computer illiterate,. what do I do?.\ It is for those \computer illiter- ate\ people that I write this article. Althoagh 1 would never presume to be able to teach you all about computers. in one article or even 100, I would like to spread some basic 11nderstanding of how the network works on this CJllllpus ina way even the most computer illit- erate can get. l realize that most people only care that it works, but for those of you who want to survive in a highly technical world, here is a start. This will be a helpful guide for those who are not yet con- nected and an explanation of how it happened for those who already are. First, what is a ••network\? Computers, faxes, and phones can all share the same communication lines. To help understand what a \network\ is, think of the term as it relates to the business world. Networking in the business world means making cotme(;tions with people so that they will (hopefully) help you in the future. Networking in the computer world simply means making connections with other computers (what happens from thereisuptoyou). Yourcomputer can \get to know\ other computers by being on the same network. However, your computer can only talk to other computers that give it permission. There are computers that allow anyone to call, like the computers that store web pages. But idol only allows valid users to call it. Valid users are people with accounts. Your account is identified by your login name (e.g. trottsj) and protected by your password. That is the concept behind the network The physical network is composed of computers and links. Teleph<me lines can be used as links between computers just like they are a · inYouf ·, '- computer, you must tell your computer what it is. Computers are not inherently intelligent; so they must be specifically instructed to do what you want. Most of that is hidden ffom you in neweroperating sys~~ms like Windows 95 and · MacOS, but it takes a lot of behind the scenes work to make that possible. You must intall whatare called \drivers in order to tell your computer about your Ethernet card, Without this, your card will do noth.ing, just as a car without a driver will go nowhere. {For those of you who had problems with 3Com PCI or PCMCIA cards, the I\ ··~ ,......... =· = I i n k between you an'd friends. B u t telephone lines were n o t originally designed to carry anything other than voice. There are better [~J I . . ~ ~I idol J ~ a::! I · /f~u~Jf.~ iji t~ ~~~P.u~m.~ EJ '6L/] ~ r -- .= = ECJ, =\ine en · · · ~~~t:'~J!JWJ;I!:S -~; .~ ....,~..........._,._.. WM«< Interftlt , . · JJpJ)!WiJffl~ ~ ~m ~J.JJJ..J.Jt:IJ.uJ methods, one of these is Ethernet, which is what we use on this campns .. There are cabl<;Js that connect the entire campus ~md are devoted entirely to .transmitting \conversations\ between computers. That is why, on this campus, you can talk on the phone and be ••on-line\ at the same time, where-as, if you were using a modem to connect you would not be able to (unless you had two phone lines). But in order to take advantage of this resource your computer must know how to transmit your computer's \conversation\ over the special lines. That is why it is necessary to buy and install an Ethemet (or network) card to put in your machine. We only support Ethernet cards made by 3Com, DaynaPort, and Apple, but any I OBase- T card should work (if you did not understand that last bit, don't worry). Once the card is put in the problem had to do with the drivers forJhose specific cards.) Everyone hasa phone number assigned to them when they move into their rooms. This number is unique for obvious reasons. Since computers need talk to each other in a similar fashion, they need unique \phone numbers\ as well. These numbers are called IP Addresses (IP stands for Internet Protocol). This is one of the numbers you get when,you register for Res Net. Your email address and your IP address are two completely different things, so if you have one, it does not imply you have the other. You can sign up for an email account (idol account) at the OCS (Office of Computer Services). To get an IP Address you must register by following the instructions in the packet available outside the Consultant's Office in Steinmetz Hall. Once you have registered for ResNet you are ready to complete ' the final steps of the process, You must enter the numbers you received from the registration process into your computer. The full explanation for all the numbers requited is way· beyond· the scope of this article. Once your computer is setup pn,>perly you are able to conne.ct to the Union College Network (or ResNe.t). This means that you can call any computer cn the same network (e.g. idol) oryou c~n use the Internet to call a computer not on ()Ur Network. The Internet, put simply, is the connection of aU networks. When you connect to ~ ...... 'Frin• - at comoll ,. \ c:::::::.. ED ~~~~l~!j' ~ ~f, ResNet you tlre on Union's s m a 1 1 network of .computers, but Union's network is ·t h e n connected t.o all the o t h e r camp us, business, a n d government networks thT<Jugll Sprint. (The c;:omple:xity of this connection is beyond the scope cfthi:S article). Thelnternet is w.orldwide and consists of millions of computers (in other words, it would take a large catastrophe to break the Internet, so please don't jump te conclusions when your computer won't connect). Your email to people outside of Union College must travel through the Internet to-teach its destination (another computer, on another network). Let's examine the make- . up of an email address; trottsj@idol.union.edu. The part after the @ is the DNS (Domain Name Service) for idol so that the computer that is sending the email knows where to send it. The part before the @tells id()l which one of ido I' s valid users is to receive the message. ldol then takes the message and stores it in your directory which you access when you log-on from the labs or college center. The diaJP'am showshow an email to your friend atComell is sent from your computerto your friend's. Yom idol account{ ema.ilacco\lllt) is distinct from your ResN~,:t connection. You use your connection to- the residential network (ResNet) to ''call'~ or connect to idol and ask what mail you have received. Most often~ if you cannot retrieve your mail over your ResNet connection, it is a prohlem with your computer, not idol. To receive an email accou11t oil idol you must fill out a form at OCS (Steinmetz Hall). This is a separate procedure from setting 11p your ResNet connection in y()Ut room. You must register for yoar ResNet connection via Netscape from a computer already on the ·netWork. Well, if you are still withrne then you will probably agree that there are a lot of highly__ technical systems that make the Internet ali:Q email possible;but the concepts behind' it all are basie enough f'i>r anyone to understand. If you are still having trouble connecting to ResNet and have followed all the instructib;ns outlined in the packet, please call the ResNet Help Desk at x2166 . .If you get Voice Mail please leave yom full name (and spell it), extension, time you are availa!Jle; and brief description of the problem. Please read the provided packet thoroughly BEFORE calling us. These packets are available in the hallway outside the consultant's -office in Stienmetz Hall. (Where1he computerlabsare, opposite Baily Hall at the back end ofS&E.) Any .problems with your idol account should be directed t-o .the OCS at x6293 as we only solve Res Net problems. Please Note: Do not let anyone into your building who is claiming to be a RNC but has no name tag or if you do not have .an appointment with one. Please call security if this happens. If you thought this article was informative, fun, confusing, (}r a waste of space, please let me kn<Jw by submitting your typed response _ to the Concordy before Tuesday. \Cupid's Elixir:\ Where Can One Find Some? by Victoria Hargreaves S&T Editor Once upon a time, a man visited a sorcerer. ••1 need a potion, doc. I'm scared my girl is cheating on me. Gimme something quick that will make her fall in love with me all over again.,. The sorcerer threw some chemicals and animal pwts into a cauldron, stirred, and waited as the man shivered with anticipa- tion. Poof. There it was. Love potion number nine, complete with the power to entrance any girl who took a whiff. The man doused himself in the sweet nectar'. He raced to her apart- ment. His girl forgot about the other guy and feU madly in love with the man. Needless to say,the two lived happily ever after. . We often Wish for a magical po- tion that will make the ones we love, love us in return. Can it be this easy though? Maybe so. Scientists have found an \invis- ible, odorless, and undetectable\ scentresponsible for attracting the opposite sex. What is this potion? Pheromones. Pheremones. are chemicals pro- duced by organisms to relay mes- sages to other members of their species. They are released in sweat by the perspiration glands. Scien- tists believe that these chemicals stimulate the nerves at the back of the nasal canal which send a sexual response to the brain. The word pheromone has the lit- eral meaning \to carry excitement.\ \Pheromones affectthe sixth sense for a richer sensation of pleasure. They increase romantic attention and affectionate behavior.'' Just as a batch of freshly baked cookies arouses a feeling ofhun- ger, ph.eromones arouse a feeling of attraction for the opposite .sex. Pheromones are also thought to incite communication and \close- ness.\ The product market has taken pheromones by storm. With ad- vertisements that read, \It's medical science's and nature's sexual secret weapon of pleasure,\ sellers stock the shelves with little, . expensive bottles just as quickly as eager men and women snatch them up. According to the sales- men, as men and women age, the pheromone scent weakens; there- fore~ one must buy these little, ex- pensive bottles. Animals, even insects, secrete these Jove- inducing chemicals to entrance the opposite sex. Envi- ronmental engineers use phero· mones to detennine what .insects live in crops which, in tum, deter- mines .how to better protect fanner's crops from pests. \F<H years farmers have been usin.g pheromones to induce fe- male llerds of bulls an9 cows to breed. By simply spr-aying the male animal version of the pheromones. on themale herd, the fema.leswoul~ almost instantly assume the mat• ing position.\ Research has repeatedly proven, \Human pheromones caused a sta- tistically significant and distinct increase in those romantic behav- iors in which a ~oman plays a rna• jorrole .. , Thus, human pheromones affect the sexual attractiveness of men to women.\ Sources Warner, Geraldine. Good Fntit Grower. 19%. www .pheromones. com · 'www.ictcom.com/scent/index:. html

Advcrtiscm~nts . illlft' U::nnnnoimsis • Octobct· 9, 1997 • Page 11. D.POWER, MOBILITY. 30f;» cash batk* . . ' ' : . . . . . - ·~·· .. . WANT: SOME CASH TO. GO WITH THAT? ' . 200 cash back* . ' ; '. :t·. ~';}._' '\ .' :<·: .• >:·:<~:-.-; Now is the right time tQ get an Apple Power Maciotosll or, P9.1NetBoc.k. 8e(8use in addition· to getting the computer that lets ~o~ ·~o more than you can Imagine,. you can save big time. For a limited time~ students are · .. ::·?{:::::::::r:> .. : • .~::. . . > . .\:~:~:<·.>·~<· ...... eligible for spedal cash rebates. . .· :::.:·: · · ~- *lhls Is a llmlted time reba• coupon offer. •::~~-A;pie campus rese11er ~ay for a.,nptete dmllS. · ·· -: .·'·>' ·. · Contact Charles Bosworth at Unl~~::~itese Bookstowe RUmer C.mpus c. .. t*~;. izjj~~ Floor Hours: Monday ttfru Friday 8:45 .. 4=)!-:~:Sattfrda.y u:oo • :s:oo {SI$)~·· http://dlet.'ocs.llnlon.edu/PUBLICla®J(STORE/mmpsoft.htm email: ·IMJSworu.oun!QO.Adu PROCTOR'S CHARGE BY PHONE: GROUP DISCOUNTS: (518) 346··6204 (518) 382~5392 . ::<r~~~;~<:.·: << . ' .• ;. < /·. :\' . . .. t'. • •• •• .~.- ..... ' '. ' ' / • • .,_,., MadntoStr 4400/ZOO J6hGB/8XCO/Multlple Scan 15AV/L7. · Eth~met/l(bd N~ S1.8o7 (or $:sS(monltl)** .IU'OIIt ll:dfllE :.:;_.~:>:.:.:~:::.;;;:;;:::.><· :. ·t:::;::;~. : .• :a.:·\;\:;;_.·•·o· · · · · ' ~-·~ ~ ' ' . . cash.-back* ORDER TICKETS VIA THE NET AT: ~~\' (518) 476-1000 http://www..proctors.org

P.agc 12 ·October 9, 1997 ·t!rill' Qh .. innn·ait>asis · · .. · Features by Anonymous Okay, here's the deal, sparky. Over the past three weeks, we have heard many interesting and somewhat erotic pronunciations of our names. So, for the .first and final time we would like to present to you the D & M pro- nunciation guide. Djahmbi~· Jahm- bee (Here's a hint: no, your not seeing things. The \D\ is silent, genius.) Mohmar: Mo - mar (Com- ment--What is so difficult about this?) This helpful pamphlet can be purchased at the campus book- store, for the low, low price of $30,DOO (D & M's note--this pamphlet is actually worth more than your diploma). Of course, if you believe that, then you are probably one of the ninnies who we overheard questioning whether or not these are our real names. Hello? Hey, Djahmbi, great transition. Since we are addressing the name issue, we have decided, in our in- finite wisdom, that now is the last time we discuss our anonymity; As Ms. Riba (whom we'll get to in more detail later) so astutely pointed out, these are not our real names. For all you loya~readers out there•-Djahmbi, correct me if I am wrong--didn't we discuss that in our first article? Perhaps we have spent too long at happy hour, but we said we chose to not mention our real names--not for fear or for being wimps, but to make it all a bit more interesting. You don't know who we are, and we don't know (or really care) who you are. Here's a case in point: we were chilling out this weekend with sotne people who were trying to guess who we are (kinda funny, I might add). Ba- sically, we're out there and no one knows (or really cares) who we are. I hope that took care of some of your queries, Ms. Riba. As for the rest of your response, entitled Mohmar' the Ignorant, now would be a good time to chat about it. First of all--boo-hoo. My mommy always told me that \sticks and stones may break my bones, but names can never hurt me.\ So, nanny-nanny poo-poo, you calling me ignorant rolled off my back. In fact, I'm rubber and you're glue, and whatever you. say bounces off me and sticks on you. No, wait Djahinbi. come back, I really am going somewhere with this. You see Ms. Riba, this is by no means a personal attack on you, but since you came back punch- ing, let's go to round two. You said that next time we decided to write an article we slmuld\find out all the details and facts involved.\ Well, we did, and they are simple. You were supposed to go on a term abroad, chose--for whatever reason--not to go, and now want special treatment. Did we miss something ? I don't think so. There are other people there now. Though you chose not to go, that was your choice alone. As some- one who has been to Israel numer- ous times, I understand your fears; but we must also realize that while Israel has, unfortunately, been vic- tim to many terrorist b·ombings, it is not alone in the world. Are people just going to stay home, sit on their arses and watch T.V. (which could short-circuit)? No·- go out, live life, and, by the way, · Egypt is not what many would call a safe place. We are certainly not making light of the situation, but just hopefully making people re- alize that what you all chose to do was your choice. No one is insult- ing you for it. Our 'deal is that you said that you were not ''every other student.\ We just wanted to let you know that despite what your kindergarten teacher told you, you don't deserve special treatment. Share your crayons. Woah, ·ojahmbi, stop crying. Mohmar, that was beautiful. Ouch, brain fart. Hey, Ms. Wittbold, waah ... quit your whin- ing, and take it like the adult you claim you are. Up next? Our favoritetopic--the security report. Djahmbi, my good friend, what is in store for us to- day? Any more incidents like what occurred at 1 :29 AM on Septem- ber 18 in Fox? (D & M's note-- that would be the '\used personal protective device left on student's lets (a•k.a. The Phantom Flusher) door\). Yummy! What :flavor? are becoming an endangeredspe- Come <m, Djahmbi (no .pun in- cilis.. They've he.en disappearing tended) tell us! First up is a repeat since this summer. We need to .offender. This gentleman first save their kind. On a college cam• gracedourfmecampus.on Sunday, · pus, there was apparently enough 'September 21 at 6:31 PM. With flushing negligeflce to warrant him he brought his pit-bull (who th?ir installation. Can we believe was unavailable for comment at that the students and faculty have press time). Our mystery man al- just become b·etter jlushe.rs? I lowed his dog (we believe his doubt it. Save the A.uto Flushers! name is Spuds) to chew up a tree -Dolores, REAMER bathroom limb.Ooh, threatening. Dogs love bark {no pun intended). Just ask anyone in nutrition class. He made \veiled threats to officer regarding the dog and fled campus.\ Our talented security battalion believe that th-is is the sarne fruitcake wbo \previously threatened to have the dog attack a campus officer.\ Spuds and his owner played are- turn engagement at 6:06 PM on Wednesday, September 24. Ap- parently, Spuds has a real taste for Union College foliage as he was at those tree branches again. We would app.reciate a feeding schedule so that we might conduct an interview with Spuds and Mr. Nutcase. Speaking ofnut-cases, the em- ployees of Dutch Hollow learned the hard way what happens when you drink the wafer at Duff Gar- dens. \/am ·the lizard king!\(for all you Simpsons fans). Now, go do your research. Dthg ding_ dinz! It's bonus week. We liad J grand total of three illnesses due to alcohol con- sumption. Sounds disturbingly normal, doesn't it (now that Pre- cept is officially at Ellis)? The surprise in this particular box of Crackerjacks is one of the abusers was.an import-·not one of us. Not that we're xenophobic (thesaurus watch). It's good to know that it doesn 1 ttake Union too long to af- fect mind, body, arid tolerance. We were all ready to discuss what you all thought about live ER, but since no one wrote to us about it--screw you all--we're not gonna tell you what we thought. So, let's see what was so damn important this week that you couldn't talk about ER. Automatic flushers for the toi- Djahmbi' s with you on this one. Auto-tlush is as necessary to the R~amer as Medieval Madness{It's not tragic, yQu've got Merlin's Magic.). In the interest of fairness, it must be said that Mohmar has. had some bad ~xperiences with auto-flush ·technology. In fact, Mohmar is currently rocking back and forth in the cornet, drooling, Every time 1 write ~'auto-flush\ he twitches. Auto-flush! Next in- quiry. Why is it that the CDC thinks they are so dam (sic) important? -Hermit, 4fh floor North Two words--jack@$$. Check last _weeks column. Thank you for playing, have a nice day. Next! Why is it that on standardized tests like the SAT and LSATdo you get a certain amount of points for writing your own name? Is it to make people feel better wHen· they get low scores? -Ahab, Gravel Gertie's' I don't know about yon, but it sure made us feel good. Djahmbi and Mohmar are not the easiest names to spiel (sic), How come we, as members of Generation X, are portrayed in .a stupid Volkswagen commercial as having nothing better to do than drive around and pick up smelly couches? I personally am insulted · What do you think? -Fah-q, VanVranken Ave; Dada da! Dada dal Shet yer hole! First of all, why don't you trade in your Hum- V and buy some furniture? Next is part of· Mohmar' s white-trash beritage to take nbandoned property home. Nothing like a good crui-se on the weekend. Once again, we've · sprouted our third hand. So, on it we .find that we're not pi$$ed at tha1 portrayal, because tllat' s what we and many C)ther losers grew up doing (license= cruising). What we take exception to is being as.- sociated with vaniHa·smeUin', grass .. puffin', frock-wearin' Gen Xers. Wbat is a frock anyway? We can deal with twen:ty-sorne- tbing deadbeats, hut onc;e you call us Gen. X, we're gonna pop open a six pack o' whup-a$$.. l)jahmbi and Mohmar are taking a stand, Who the !@#% .. says we're Gen X?! Any sociology majors out . th~re who can hack us up(and are willing to), dmp us a line. On to the final question. Is it mandatory thatas a senior, you must get an apartment and a dog to guard the $6.98 worth of fUrniture thctt the landlordsupplies (D & M'.s note--or that you stole, ya' couch ste.alin', klepto Gen Xer)? Personalty, I don't see any hoodlum (D & M--Good word. We like.}backing olffromabreak- ing~and-entering at the frighten.,.. ing, vicious squeak of a Shih Tzu,. Am J mistaken? Floor-licker, West College '~yt you got a problem with seniors? 1 ·love having my leg sniffed ty· a lonely canine while enjoying a fajita at Chez Dutch. It's the cool thing to. do when one becomes a senior. Go get a dog with your summer savings, and · name it after your faV()r'ite alco- holic beverage. \C'ntere Screw- . driver. Put down the freshman.\ Whatever happened to Fido, Rex, .and Spot? Here at Union we've got Jack> Bnd, Jim, Andre~Boone.s, and the hungri~st dog in Schenectady, Spuds; We'retired. Mom and Dad(not to mention the alums) tuckered us out. Th:is will hopefully be the most serious of our colunms. Keep those questions and opinions-edi- torials coming. So, in the great words of Bartles and James, \Thank you for your support.\ Finding Time to Discover Some Safety Hazards by Matt Aronowitz Staff Writer Okay, there's this issue that I want to bring to the forefront. Something in the college center violates health safety standards. I can't really explain what it is, so I'll tell a little anecdote about it. Last year, my friend, who will definitely remain anonymous, en- countered this gory site first hand. We' II call him \Scuzzlebutt.\ One Wednesday night, after an evening of \consuming I stopped by the college center with Scuzzlebutt. I went to the cour- tesy phones to call another friend. We'Hcal! her\Joe Bloggs.\ Any- way. Scuzzlebutt sat down in front of the mailboxes across from the courtesy phones. So, I talkedforacoupleminutes. big metal nozzle next to the turningthiswheel. Thenextthing Unbeknownst to me, phones. So, I got up and tried to I knew, my jeans and shirt were Scuzzlebutt was up to· covered in brown sew~ no good. After a age; So I turned the while, I get a knock on wheel back as quick as my shoulder. I could. The wall was Scuzzlebutt says to covered, too.\ me, \Uh Matt, I did He smelled really something bad.,. 1 had; so we went back look at him, and it home, -and he changed. looks like he peed in Th:e funny thing is that his pants. So, I say, the walls were stained \Sorry Joe Bloggs, 1 ~or about two mon~hs have to go. I think before anyone noticed. Scuzzlebuttpeed in his Throughout that .pe- pants.\ rio.d, every time we Now that I was off passed the wheel, we the phone, I asked would point it out to Scuzzlebutt what hap- '------ ....... ~------l------.JIL..-_,;.___.. __ -..:...~ people and tell the pened. This is how Scuzzlebutt tum it, butitwouldn'tbudge. This story of that horrible night. tells it: \Well I was getting bored got me really curious .as to what One more story about while you were on the phone, and would come out. So, in my men- Scuzzlebutt before I go. Last year, I started to look around. I saw this tal state, I put all my weight into dur.ing a night of coffee house, he tools: a break and went outside for some herbal refreshment As .soon ashe litup, a security guard pulled up and got out. So, Scuzzlebutt ran towards the warm environs of Schenectacut. The security guard chased him around through backyards for two hours. ' During 1he ruckus, S<Juzzlebutt cut his hands on barbed wire. We at the Coffee House had no idea where Scuzzlebutt had gone, since he said he would be back in five minutes. He ended up coming back by walking around the entire campus, at midnight. We sat around and listened to the story,. bloody hagds and all. we bad a good laugh and tried to figure out th:is Psycho-Gaard. We would get to the bottom of this, and tomorrow was· another day .... A: and.· only kno' wat< thin1 pres, Coli on 11 eat\i enjo Tl Upp that estal Unk theSI com ever andl sert-i zen~ not your in a not , frOZI a fe1 crea1 thus Tl I A! was. call phys my1 neve brotl I til() to s.e n€W I frien ever: abou todi1 then filln been cam) even dian on n plair Ipos i wa: erytl not l I my I mye l tall ties, and talke dow whe1 abou forn myd I fell enou thin~

Ask any -one ~ho knows me, and. they can teU you.that I am not only the mostlazy person that they know, but that I wou:ld rather wat¢h people than do rriost .other things. So, with this in min4, I present to the students of Union College anew and: interesting idea· on h0w to watch Union Womyn eat ·ice.cream. Guys, sit back and enjoy. . . This past week, I was sitting in Upper Class fol' lunch, and later that day 1 visited the fine eating establishment ?fWest for dinner. Unknown to many people, both of these dtning areas have a lot in common. ,For this artiCle, how- ever, we will skip the similarities and go straight to dessert. The des- sert inquestio,n is ice cream orfro- zen yogurt. Which ofthe two does _ not matter, just' as long as the young lady who is eating it puts it in a cone. (This whoJe idea does not work if they are: eating their frozen treat out of a dish.) Many a female Union student has ice cream after these two meals, and thus the methods were learned. The first ofthese methods is the !'lnsert and Twist.\ While net the most common. it appeared to be one ofthe more eye,..pleasing ways for the ladies to eat their canes. This method consists ofthe indi- viduaJ inserting the entire .part of the cone that bas the ice cream into her mouth, sucking on it for a minute,. and tlren twisting it as it comes out ofhermouth. While this~ .. a very fine way to eat ice cream, always remember that twisting can hurt some parts of the body (I meantyour wrist, you sickos!), and that is bad. · The next method is the \Small Lick.\ This way to eat ice cream also appeared to be very popular. The !\Small Lick\ is just what it sounds like. The individual takes small little licks all over the head of the cone. Just a hint forthe small licker~-· when you eat your ice cream this way, it tends to take a while, and_in the process your ice cream can get very soft(ifyou take too long). Every one I know hates it when their rock hard ice cream goes soft. The third way appeared to be the most popular. This was the \Big ·HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD ••• HERE-[ COME by Michellll Tham Features Editor JessieSpanno became a stripper. Lick.\ The ''Big Lick,\ unlike the Andrea Zuckerman had a torrid, ~·small Lick\ has the individual racy affair with a fetching young licking the cone in broad, up-and- medical student. Winonna Ryder down strokes. The person will portrayed a college· valedictorian most likely lick in a pattern, mak- turned gas station scam artist. ing S\life that not one inch of the So, the, question now is, am I cone is missed by her tongue~ Of : destined for a life of late-night every one I talked to, the big prostitution and secret under- tickers seem to be the tnost popu.. ground dealings? lar gr()up around. The message is clear. I have The last method is by far the been a faithful devotee to the spin- worst. Ladies, take note. These are ning images of situational-comedy the ''B.iters.\ I know, guys, it just · life, and the television seems to be hurtstllinking of this method. The . telling me one thing--good girls go \Biters\ are those people who, for · bad, always. some amknown reason, feel that I have been your classic Miss they must bite off large chunks of Walking Reference Section since the top of their ice cream cone. first grade. Outside of being able Here is a helpful hint: don't bite. to do flips for the gymnastic team, It is bad,. it is wrong, and it hurts! I was athletically awkward. This Now, I atn sure that I have · made for some embarrassing missedsomemethods of eating an . games of dodge ball, not to men- ice cream cone, but you have to tion pathetic results on the yearly remen1ber that I am not an expert, \physical fitness test.\ Somehow, nor will I wantto ever be one. Just . · the cool kids were always good at know, ladies, that variation is the key. Combine some of these ways. Start ~·a big Iicker, but finish as an \Insert and Twist.\ And guys, · as long as ice cream is out there, we will always be happy. sports, were always picked to be captain in gym.class, were always someone other than me. I sort of pretended for a while somewhere around senior year of high s~hool and the beginning of freshman year here that I wasn't stead of guzzling fermented bev- erages in a stale, crowded room. It's only my love for dancing that lures me out into the cold night to those places that we call fraterni- ties. College partying is wild and fast. I don't think I was fit to play the role of the social butterfly. I tried to press myself into the typi- cal mold as a freshman, going out four nights a week; but the habit died with the end of fall term last year. I have never been a kelly Tay- lor or a Rachel Green, and I am sure that the \Heathers\ would never have let me into their elite social clique. I never dated the cap- tain of the football team, and no one nominated me for prom queen. Here at college, I usually feel sort of awkward around people at par- ties, and I don't know how to just go up to a total stranger and strike up stimulating conversation. Here's the truth: I am a good girl, a bookworm at times .. J am a Jan Brady. Every Student Becomes a Gatekeeper ... · actually a complete fool socially. Alas, the facade of my breezy con- fidence was a fraud. Strangely, a lot of people fell for it. I even got myself a few friends and a cutesy social circle, otherwise known as a sorority. It's because of this recent self- discovery that I have realized my fate. It's stated plainly for me on the flashing television picture show. I am destined to fail out of school and ruin my future so that I can run off with a guy named Grif- fm. And then, of course, I will have to start up a high class escort ser- vice on the side to keep up with the rent. Good girls never .stay that way on TV. l've been watching my back to see when it is going to sneak up on me, that time when I will cease being the avid student and fall into a dark life of sinful lusciousness. Little Samantha on Who's the Boss, a.k.a. Alyssa Milano, found herself within the folds of Playboy magazin.e. · Doesn't anyone stay innocent and sweet anymore? by Reuel Daniels Staff Writer As you know, this past weekend was parents weekend; or should I call it the most emotionally and physically dr!lining weekend of my college experience so far. I never thought ha..ving my mom and brother here was going to be hard. I tllought that they would be able to see all the things that were once nt::w to me and still are. I introduced them to as many friends as I could and showed them everything that I loved and hated about this campus. We went out to dinner and then to breakfast and then to dinner again, so that I could fill my stomach with the food I had been craving for. We ventured off campus as much as we could and even drove up to Saratoga for In- dian food. However, food w~snot on my mind; I was trying to ex- plain to my family everything that I possibly couldab~ut my new life. i was trying to fill them in on ev- erything that they had missed by not having me at home. I found that for the fist time in my life I could talk openly about my experiences away from home .. I talked about the fraternity par- , ties, the drinking, the late nights, and the occasional sleep-overs. I talked about the freedoms I had to do whatever I pleased and to study whenever I wanted. I told th.em about what life was like in general for me, and their eyes got wider as my descriptions got more colorful. I felt like there wasn't going to be enough time to tell them .every- thing, and then I realized I didnit have to. They seemed to want to know everything about my new life away from them, so that they could try: to understand me in my new settings. They always had questions, and I always had answers, but there came a sadness when the topic of home came up. I told my mother that I wanted to go home after din- ner on Saturday night, and she said, \Go back to Wellesley?\ Of course, that was not the home ! meant. l meant the place where I live _now, the place where I sleep and where I am surrounded by ' things and people I love. That i~ not to say I don't love my real home anymore, but this is a sort ofbome for me now, and that is what I call it. This really did not go over well with my mother, and she insisted that this was not my home, but rather a temporary living establish- ment. It was then that I realized that things had changed--that I had changed. How could I possibly explain to J,ll.Y mother tliat right now this is where I wanted to be and that when I come home in November, I will probably be itch- ing to get back. No matter how happy I was to have my family-here with me, I felt so sad when they left. I felt like I had lost something, hut !didn't lose anything except my absence from home .. It is harder for them to deal with my absence. I know because they tell me how weird it is to not hear my voice around the house. they tell me they miss my sing- ing and laughing, even though they chided me constantly for being too loud or too annoying. They miss my presence and my personality. I guess it is hard to wake up in the momirng and see nobody living in my ro()m, or having rtpbody to set a third place at the table for. I agree, for I often mis~ my bed and a hom e•<:ooked meal or having someo11e kiss me good-night. I miss. ~y mom's yelling and my brother's torment, but 1 have grown to accept the fact that my life is different now. I am on my own, and they are always there for me to lend a hand or to show me the love that friends can't always give. They lcnowme all to well and that is a.comfort when I am feeling lost · and c;onfused. · It was so nice to share my new surroundings with my family. I enjoye-d taking my brother out to the fra1ernities (and showing him what c10llege life is like). He slept in my dorm with me and got to experience a taste of hew we col- lege kids live. T think he enjoyed himself and can hardly wait until it is his tum to leave home. My mother on the other hand dreads that very day. Her only comment of tlte weekend was, why weren't there any parties for the parents? It was 11ice tosee my family again and to .appreciate the little things I tended to argueabout while living at hotr~e with them. As I waved bye, I realized that my life will never betliesame, and as I watched the car turn the cor- ner tea:r$ of confusion came to my eyes. [·can't tell you why this hap- · pened because I don't have an an- swer. Overall, it felt good to hug my brother and mother and have them close to me like I had 11ever left them at all. The truth was, and the truth still is, that l am not one of the \cool kids.\ I was Jessie Spann<> in high school, Andrea Zuckennan in so- cial matters (I had ~'Designated Driver\ stapled to my forehead); and Winonna Ryder in her pathetic pride in over-achievement. I tried · to fight the stereotype for a while, but I've recently realized that it's okay to not be in the \in\ crowd. Plain and simple ... I'm just me. I like to read books. I spend time in professors' offices just talking · to them, and I often would rather watch cheesy movies all night in- Well, if television is any indica- tion of the culture and social ten- dencies of our time, I am afraid that my fate is sealed. I should just go out right now and buy myself a metallic gold bi- kini. I hear they wear that sort of thing in Las Vegas . . . on stage, that is. Come take a break. . .. Climb Into die Tree Houee. ThuradiQf Nla.._. aaaa - 8diD Fox Hole Lounae Coma Join us for food andrefawadenl .'

' ' Pagc.t4 • O~tober 9, 1997 • lC!p.! U::oncurnil'ltsis . . . . A<hcrtiscmcnts Hewitt co11rununicati.on, adxnmistrati<)n and delivery of human resourc6. compensation, and beneflt plms. With over 7.000 associate$ in 65 locatioDS around the world. Hewitt is a trusted .partner with more than 2,800 companies. Over 75% of the FORTUNE 500 can be found on our dient roster. We~~~~ HeWitt. We see these ' creatf*~&~forte: 40Highlmd A'ri::mte · Rowayton, CT ~68:53: PAX: l03-8S3-22t4 www.hewitt.co~ When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth. degree. And that's the l.evel of technology you'll experienc.e at Raytheon. Raytheon has ·formed a new technological superpower.-.. together; Raytheon Electronic Systems., Raytheon E .. Systems and Raytheon Tl Systems are dri\'ir~g technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers wile want to push the envelope. Breok new ground. Make their m-ark. At Raytheon yov'H take technology- and your: career- to the highest possiDie Jevel. You'l.l take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement o.ffice now to schedule an interview; or check out our webs.if.e at www.rayjobs.com. i . : I I m D th St fo ch Tl El ad B: SJ PE to

Hewitt Make complex ......... ...&..IUL.II.JL'Io,..q..&. challenges? Are communication, administration, and delivery of human resources. compensation, and benefit plans. With over 7,000 associates in .SS locations around the world, Hewitt is a trusted partner with more than 2,80;() companies. Over 75% of the FORTUNE .500 can be found on our client r<>ster. At Hewitt< you Will becomt'lt<ll~ firm, we empO!IWJ' oll.J' tea~.'? j()in us, yo~.are an flSSOdlt~t.Wt and you, ciS an ·a.sroc:iate. We are. q~icated t(} -~~~~,... ........ e- Hewin. We see these <:reative work force. • Atlanta. GA • Bedminster, NJ IL Hewitt Associates 40 Highland Ave.n:11e Eowayton, CT 068S 3 FAX: 203-853-222\- 'WWW.hewitt.com Wilen something is to<e extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And ihat's the levei of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. Raytheon has formed~ new technological superpower- together, Raytheon Electroni< Systems, Ruytheon E-Systems and Raytheon Tl Systems are drivilllg technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new gn>und. Make their rnark. At Raytheon you'll take technology- and your career- to ine highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office new to schedule <l n interview, or check out our website at 'W\WVI.rayjobs.com. j i I II I I ! II IJ II !I !l 11 I! il I ! i ,j ll I· t! d i' 11 ,I (i H ,, .I ' m~ Du the; Sp for chi Th El ad: Ba Sp: Pa1 tot J:wrli i~l . fi,; '!~~ ~17~ mi~J ~~~i $;k! i¥~~ \·~· ~:~ 'l>~t ~i~) ~1~~

: I A~ts & Entertainment - - - - . _ - . · ·trri!c Qhmc:oroica!iii\ --·Octob_er 9, 1997 ~ P'ag~-15 KISS THE GIRlS :Staring: Morgan Freeman Ashley Ju(id Director: Gary Fleder Qating: MatiQee and a popcorn Rating System (How much to pay to see it) Full Price (4 Stars) MatineePrice(3 Stars) Rent It(2 Stars) Wait for L(l.te NiglltTV(l Star) -l'd Rather have a ... (0 Stars) P<>pc<>rn (%a star): ***** . Several y()ung women have mysteriously di$appeared in Durham, North Carolina. Each of them is uniqae and special in their own Way. Washington DC Detective and forensic psy- chologist, Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman), gets :pulled into the case whim his niece falls victim. Two thousand·miles out ofhis jurisdic- tion, Cross lends his expertise tQ the seemingly hopeless investiga-· tion. Upon' arriving there, Cross stumbles into more than he bar· gained for. The only clue is found wit~ the second body, a note .signed from \Casanova\, the great lover. The local police force is stLUnped. The FBI is called in. With no suspects and no leads, the in- vestigation seems futile. Kate McTiernan (Ashley Judd) isa brilliant medical intern and ama-· teurkickboxer. Yet in the woods of Durham; no one is safe. Her world is turned upside-down when she iskidnaped by the Casanova irthe:r own home. She awakes to find herself in· an underground cell, w!lere !he sadistic Casanova tells her the rules: \Don't call out for help. Don't tty to est:ape. Don't '~A DETECTIVE IS SEARCHING FOR A DEADLY COLLECTOR. HIS ONLY HOPE. IS THE WOMAN WHO GOT AWAY.'' try that kickboxing sh*t on rue.\ However, the strong willed McTiernan manages to esca.pe from her cell. After being chased through the woods, McTieman plunges to freedom in a nearoy river, where she is rescued by two boys and is taken toahospital. Site becomes the only lead in a stag- nating investigation, and the <>nly hope for the other prisoners of \love\. Morgan Freeman plays Alex Cross, a detective whose analyti- cal and deductive reasoning skills far outweigh his need for physical action. Using his knowledge of psychology,·Crossmanipulates:the forces that he to allow him tore- main on the case. Resentful ofthe outsider's help, however, the local police blunder forward in the in- vestigation. Cross' personal stake in the .investigation further compli- cates matters, yet only throughhis intellect are the local authorities able· to unravel the mystery. The strong willed K11te McTiernan, played by Ashley Judd, is a strong willed woman. After escaping from her grueling imprisonment, McTiernan is trau- matized yet intensely driven to face her darkest. fears and unmasl< Casanova. Time is runiling out for the other women. A deadly game of cat and mouse ensues, btH in this game, the mouse must not be sacrificed. for he alone knows the whereabouts ofhis \collection\. Morgan Freeman'sgives a stun- ning performance. As in SeveR, he gives a suburb portrayal of a · somber and highly intelligent .po- lice investigator. Ashley Juddha:s her first starring role in Kiss the Girls, as Kate McTiernan. After small roles in Natur~l. Born Kill;.. ers (her scenes were edited out) and Kuffs, she appeared in the 1995 pplice thriller Heat as Va.l Kilmers wife. Kiss the Girls is a psychologi- cal suspense thriller in the tradi- tion of Silence of the Lambs and Seven. It establishes the evel' popular dark and sinister motif. While not as graphic as SeveQ~ Kiss the Girls works by playing mind games with the viewer. The viewer is asked to get into the mind of Casanova. Casanova explains that he is only <ioing what every- one wants do when they see an object they desire- seize it for their own. This fHm is directed by Gary Fieder, who also directed the 1995 film Things to Do in Denver When You'r:e Dead. It is based upon the best sell-ing novel by James Patterson. Now we realize that most movies translated from litera- hue are rarely as .good as the book itself. But, to infringe upon a quote from NBC \lfyou haven'tread it, its new to you.\ All in all, this was a very good movie. We give it Matinee Price with a popcorn. Containing all the elements ofSeven without the ex- cessive .gore, it made for an excel- lent showing. We highly recom- mend this film to anyone who en- joys that type of sadistic and intel- ligent genre. However, we were a bit upset not to have a head in a box. Got milk? Don't undstand? See the movie and find out. Auditions for .. DeceDlb,er Production . . . . . . . . - . MUSIC TO FILL by LoriGreene A& EBllitor Home Made Theater of Saratoga Springs will hold open auditions for a December production of the children's classic, ''Wizard ofOZ.\ This non-musical dramatization by Elizabeth Fuller Chapman, is adapted from the story by L. Frank Baum. Auditions willbe hel_d at the Spa Little Theater, Saratoga State Park on Sunday and Monday, Oc- tober 191b and ~Q'\ fr~nn 7~QQ-9;QQ PM. The director is Mic,helle Summerlin- Yergan, who has. taught acting classes ~t HMT for the past 8 years. - The cast of l3 includes roles for 8 adults. All characters participate in scenes, which utilize dance and/ or stylized movement. Dance ex- perience is not required but physi- cm strength and the ability to move with freedom and imagination are important. Adult roles include, Scarecrow, Tin Lion,. Witch ofthe ,- North, Guardian ofthe Gates, Wiz- . ard of Oz, Olinda the good witch, and the Witch of the West. All those auditioning should bring a current photo to the audi- tion. Photos cannot be returned. Tbe Wizard ofOzopens Deceml>er 12th for a two weekend run: Re- hearsals will begin November 2~d and will be held Sunday late after- noon and Tuesday through · Fri- day evenings. To receive further infortnati()n, please call Home Made Theater at 587.4427, MEMORIAL CHAPEL by Rebecca Tltyresson Staff Writer The League of the Schenectady Symphony Orchestra and the Union College Department ofPer- fonning Arts present Anniversa- ries! A perfonnance by the Cham- ber Music of Joseph Fennimore at the Union College Memorial Chapel on Sunday, November 2, 1997 at 3:00pm .. The concert is in celebration of the 3.5th Anniversary of the An- . thony R. Stefan Scholarship awards and the 45th Anniversary of the orchestral debut of com- poser pianist Joseph Fennimore with the Schenectady Symphony, Anthony Stefan cond11cting. Per- · . formers are Ida Faiella, Ted Hoyle, Robert Zubrycl<.i, Gordon Hibberdl Mary Frances Ford, and the com- . poser. . Ida Faiella, sopra11o, is founder and director ofL'Ensemble, a cham· ber musk group active nationally but mostly in the Northeast for al~ most 25 years. She is a faculty member at Bennington College. Ted Hoyle, cello, is a member of the Kohon Quartet, the Long Is- land PhilhannonicandProfessor at Kean College ofthe StateUniver- sity ofNew Jersey. Robert Zubrycki, violin, is a founding member of the Ravel Quartet and visiting concert mas-: ter of the Greenwich, Connecticut . Philharmonic~ Gordon Hibberd, piano, is a noted local pianist and teacher, an<l staff accompanist for the SUNY Chorale among other groups. Mary Frances Ford. French horn,. is a senior in high school and ct member of ESYO. She studies French hom with Clarendon Van No1111an. Joseph Fennimore, composer- pianist, grew up in the capital dis- trict and returned to live in the area in the early 1980's. His music has been performed nationally by such groups as the Chicago Symphony, Tlle Metropolitan Opera Studio, and the NYC Ballet, and featured at tile Ravinis, Tanglewood, and San Jose festivals and Alameda Festival in London. He has five CDs of his work on Albany Rooords and willperform two ofhis piano concertos with the Schenectady Symphony in March 1998. Here is a little preview of what to expect. The Chamber Music of Jos~ph Fennimore will open the performance with Hotel Trio, heard for the first time in completion, for violin, cello, and piano- music for high tea aboard the Titanic. The concert will continue with ~erlitz, [ntroduction to French- a song cycle depicting the adventures of an American tourist in France, A First Sonata for cello and piano, The Sea Lullaby for horn and pi- an<>, and six Waltzes for piano 4- hands. Tickets are priced as follows: $15 general; $5 students; and all Union College Students are admitted for free with ID. Tickets are available at the door or by mail. Checks pay- able to: The League of the Schenectady Symphony Orchestra with a SASE to Ellen Hubbard, 36 Pillewood Drive, Scotia, NY 12302. Tickets are tax deductible to the full extent allowed by law. All proceeds from the ·:oncert to benefit the Anthony : Stephan Scholarship Fund. ,. .. ... ' '

KISS THE GIRlS Staring: Morgan Freeman Ashley Judd Director: Gary Fleder Rating: Matinee and a popcorn Rating System (How much to pay to see it) Full Price(4 Stars) Matinee Price (3 Stars) Rent It (2 Stars) Wait for Late Night TV (1 Star) I'd Rather have a ... (0 Stars) Popcorn (Yz a star) ***** Several young women have mysteriously disappeared in Durham, North Carolina. Each of them is unique and special in their OWR way. Washington DC Detective and forensic psy- chologist, Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman), gets pulled into the case when his niece falls victim. Two thousand miles out ofhisjurisdic- tion, Cross lends his expertise to the seemingly hopeless investiga- tion. Upon arriving there, Cross stumbles into more than he bar- gained for. The only clue is found with the second body, a note signed from \Casanova\, the great lover. The local police force is stumped. The FBI is called in. With no suspects and no leads, the in- vestigation seems futile. Kate McTiernan (Ashley Judd) is a brilliant medical intern and ama- teur kickboxer. Yet in the woods of Durham, no one is safe. Her world is turned upside-down when she is kidnaped by the Casanova in her own home. She awakes to find herself in an underground cell, where the sadistic Casanova tells her the rules: \Don't call out for help. Don't try to escape. Don't ''A DETECTIVE IS SEARCHING FOR A DEADLY COLLECTOR. HIS ONLY HOPE IS THE WOMA.N WHO GOT AWAY.'' try that kickbox:ing sh*t on me.\ However, the strong willed McTiernan manages to escape from her cell. After being chased through the wo<>ds, McTiernan plunges to freedom in a nearby river, where she is rescued by two boys and is take11 to a hospital. She becomes the only lead in a stag- nating investigatim, and the only hope for the other prisoners of \love\. Morgan Freeman plays Alex Cross, a detecti\e whose analyti- cal and deductive reasoning skills far outweigh his need for physical action. Using his knowledge of psychology, Cross manipulates the forces that bet<> allow him to re- main on the case. Resentful of the outsider's help, llowever, the local police blunder forward in the in- vestigation. Cross' personal stake in the investigatioll further compli- cates matters, yet o11ly through his intellect are the local authorities able to unravel the mystery. The strong willed Kate McTiernan, played by Ashley Judd, is a strong willed woman. After escaping from her grueling imprisonment, McTiernan is trau- matized yet intensel)'driven to face her darkest fears and unmask Casanova. Time is running out for the other women. A deadly game of cat and mouse ensues, but in this game, the mouse must not be sacrificed, for he alone knows the whereabouts ofhis \co!lection\. Morgan Freeman's gives a stun- ning performance. As in Seven, he gives a suburb portrayal of a somber and highly intelligent po- lice investigator. Ashley Judd has her first starring role in Kiss the Girls, as Kate McTiernan. After small roles in Natural Born Kill- ers (her scenes were edited out) and Ku ffs, she appeared in the 1995 police thriller Heat as Val Kilmers wife. Kiss the Girls is a psychologi- cal suspense thriller in the tradi- tion ofSilence of tile Lambs and Seven. It establishes the ever popular dark and sinister motif. While not as graphic as Seven, Kiss the Girls works by playing mind games with the viewer. The viewer is asked to get into them ind of Casanova. Casanova explains that he is only doing what every- one wants do when they see an object they desire- seize it for their own. This film is directed by Gary Fleder, who also directed the 1995 film Things to Do in Denver When You're Dead. It is based upon the best selling novel by James Patterson. Now we realize that most movies translated from litera- ture are rarely as good as the book itself. But, to infringe upon a quote from NBC \If you haven't read it, its new to you.\ All in all, this was a very good movie. We give it Matinee Price with a popcorn. Containing all the elements of Seven without the ex- cessive gore, it made for an excel- lent showing. We highly recom- mend this film to anyone who en- joys that type of sadistic and intel- ligent genre. However, we were a bit upset not to have a head in a box. Got milk? Don'tundstand? See the movie and find out. Auditions for Dece01ber Production MUSIC TO FILL by Lori Greene A & E Editor Home Made Theater of Saratoga Springs will hold open auditions for a December production of the children'sclassic, \Wizard ofOZ.\ This non-musical dramatization by Elizabeth Fuller Chapman, is adapted from the story by L. Frank Baum. Auditions will be held at the Spa Little Theater, Saratoga State Park on Sunday and Monday, Oc- tober 19th and 20th 1 frqm 7;QQ-9:00 PM. The director is Michelle Summerlin- Y ergan, who has taught acting classes ~t HMT for the past 8 years. The cast of 13 includes roles for 8 adults. All characters participate in scenes, which utilize dance and/ or stylized movement. Dance ex- perience is not required but physi- cal strength and the ability to move with freedom and imagination are important. Adult roles include, Scarecrow, Tin Woodmanl Lionl Witch ofthe North, Guardian of the Gates, Wiz- ard of Oz, Glinda the good witch, and the Witch ofthe West. A II those auditioning should bring a current photo to the audi- tion. Photos caan<Jt be returned. The Wizard ofOz opens December 12th for a two weekend run. Re- hearsals will begin November 2\d and will be held Sunday late after- noon and Tuesday through Fri- day evenings. To receive fwiller information, please call Home Made Theater at 587-4427. MEMORIAL CHAPEL by Rebecca Tt.yresson Staff Writer The League of the Schenectady Symphony Orchestra and the Union College Department ofPer- forming Arts present Anniversa- ries! A performance by the Cham- ber Music of Joseph Fennimore at the Union College Memorial Chapel on Sunday, November 2, 1997 at 3 :00 pm. The concert is in ce lebratio11 of the 35th Anniversary of the An- thony R. Stefan Scholarship awards and the 45'\ Anniversary of the orchestral debut of com- poser pianist Josepit Fennimore with the Schenectady Symphony, Anthony Stefan conducting. Per- formers are Ida Faiella, Ted Hoyle, Robert Zubrycki, Gordon Hibberd, 1\Lir) Fraih:c~ Ford, anJ the \:Oill· poser. IJa Faiella, ~oprano, i:, founJcr and director ofL' Ensemble, a cham- ber music group active nationally but mostly in the Northeast for al- most 25 years. She is a faculty member at Bennington College. Ted Hoyle, cello, is a member of the Kohon Quartet, the Long Is- land Philharmonic and Professor at Kean College of the State Univer· sity ofNew Jersey. Robert Zubrycki. violin, is a founding member ()f the Ravd Quartet and visiting concert mas- ter of the Greenwich. Connecticut Philharmonic. ~ l T l\. ' . I ' (1\lflllil 11'~t 1 ~._ill. ~,,till. llllll',ll~·~-·d pl.llll,[ .til d k.t, lkl ',];],: ~tall <H.:L'\lllll'.ll11'l !l>r !hl· -.;t '\ Y C'htn,il~ ,JiliOil(:: tltlh'·I ~!Jl•ll('-. French hom with Clarendon Van Norman. Joseph Fennimore, composer- pianist, grew up in the capital dis- trict and returned to I ive in the area in the early 1980's. His music has been performed nationally by such groups as the Chicago Symphony, The Metropolitan Opera Studio, and the NYC Ballet, and featured at the Ravinis, Tanglewood, and San Jose festivals and Alameda Festival in London. He has five COs of his work on Albany Records and will perform two of his piano concertos with the Schenectady Symphony in March 1998. Here is a little preview of what to expect. The Chamber Music of Joseph Fennimore will open the performance with Hotel Trio, heard forth~ fir~t time i11 nllllpktiun, lui violin, cello, and piano- music for high ll.:a aboard th~ T il.tn i~... Ih: concert will continue with BerlitL, Introduction to French- a song cycle depicting the adventures of an American tourist in Franc~, A First Sonata for cello and piano, The Sea Lullaby f<.w horn and pi- ano, and six Walll::cs fllr piano -!- hands. Tickets arc prict.:d as folkm~. S I:; general; $5 students: and all t:nion College Students ctre admitted r,1r free with !D. Tickts arc <l\ailabk at the door or b) lllLJil. Chcd.~ pa:- abk to The l.cag.uc of thl.' Schcn~.·ctad: Syrnrhllll) On.:hestra ! ,,-kl''' .t••: Lt\ ,kd•.td•t,l,·t, • t\,,. ''!II ,.,t .. :nt .tll1'\\d \' !.111 \ llpr,,,,.,.,j, i~ .1 ~L'Il i111 ill hit\h >l.lHlO! <tllJ ,1 .\llllll'il'. member of ESYO. She studies fund.

. \ Don't Just Jam There Do Som·ething! Courtl'!sy of STR Entertainmmt inc. promoted to top medi~ and music professionals including, A&R rep- resentatives at m a j 0 r record com_ p,;,<k :I!,Y:fl.IPi~;c:,,, .. ,;~,.·:;,,,\'-''·'\i§·~;h\~'t,'IS':.ziJk~~i'i)'~~~it,··;i''r:~'~·:.~~;;[;;;,,,N~ Music SeaFch '97 is underway! Musica:J artists who produce and record their own original .songs are encouraged to take part by calling, toll free, l-888-8MUSIC8 to receive an official entry form, so that they can vie for top prizes in the music industry. A two-song cassette tape is the accepted format for sub- mitting material,. and the deadline for entries is October 31,1997. Win- ners will be announced November 30, 1997. \We turned heads in the music industry last year by awarding the single largest prize ever offered to undiscovered attists,~' F~ank Van Atta, director of Music Search . ' proudly exclaims. Due to the suc- cess.of.last year's contest, STR en- tertainment has created an even larger prize package for Music Search '97. Music Search '97's grand-pr.ize winner receives 2,000 CDs with full- color artwor~, national product dis- tribution, marketing support (in- cluding radio promotion), the head- lining slot at the .first annual Mu- sic Search ShowcaseConcert, and more. The second-,place finisher re- ceives 1,500 CDs (same as above package), the opportunity to per- fonn at the Music Search '97 Show- case concert, and more. The third-place finisher receives 1 ,000 COs (same as above pack- age). · Twenty Music Search '97 run- ners-up will earn a slot on the Mu- sic Search '97 Single-Sampler CD. MusicS Hey Neha- You've been neglecting the lunch bunch. Wemissyou! Love, SMD NHS- I miss you guys. Anyone want to go to Wagamama tonight for dinner?-SD Hey Ruthie- Duck- Duck -Goose (Ruth). You did great this weekend. Love~ Stacy To Union Crew- Great rowing this weekend. I'm so proud of all of you! Love, Aileen panies. Early next year, STR will host the first annual Music Search Show- case Concert in Atlanta, GA, fea- turing the top-three winners ofMS fJ:.(:j?,tf:JbS~t£'11¥J·~&:f{!~~;i~P£~~('tgj!.;'iJ~;'ffJ,~,7~!s't¥i~ '97. \Last year, there was some con- ., .. ,:u···;:;,·'.fci,,.,.'f''!:rtM;i,''r':·,,·~;tJi·•$: .. .'!Jc.j,::~~z·,,w,, fusion as to whether Music Search was a contest or an event. Now it's both, clarifies Cedrick Turner . , president ofSTR entertainment. Last year's grand-prize winner and this year's top three finishers will all have national product dis- tribution for their releaSes. \'Our distribution arrangements will af- ford them the opportunity to sell as many CDs as they can generate demand for and reap the financial benefits as well. The 2,000 CDs we manufactured for Girl on Top and theminimum2,000, 1,500and 1,000 COs offered as part of this year'.s package prime the marketing pump, so to speak. Music Search offers opportunities to get ahead in the music business, not just prizes,\ explains Turner. \We have had great media cov- erage and arejust about to release our debut CD. The future of Girl on Top is bright, and we owe that to STRand Music Search.\ -Karen DeBiasse of Girl on Top, Music Search '96 .grand-prize win- ner \As an unsigned artist, I take advantage of all legitimate oppor- tunities to get my music heard.'' -Jayne Sachs. Music Search '96 runner-up Interested musical artists should call today for a chance to become one of tomorrow's hot new per- To the girls of 1022 Union St- y ou guys are the best roommates (even though I don't ever see you)! I promise to bake again soon! Love, AQ To Mere, Kattapillar, and Angelina- We have to get together and catch up soon. Uno's anyone? I miss you! Love, Quigger CL- I really appreciated the shoulder offer the other night. You'rea good friend. Love, AQ To Rennes, France:.. Hope you are all having a great time! Renee- Take good care of my notes! Jon, Jen, and Erica- Hurry back- we need you! Love, Aileen To Jen Canney- We have to go bowling when you get back- I want to hear aU the stories from England! Love, Aileen To my little news. editor ·far far away- Things aren't the same in our personal study lounge without ya. I have too much candy to myselfl Can't wait to see you again! Love,AQ · My fellow New Paltzies- . K.eepme posted on what's ll]) ~ithyouguys-we~ve bieenM.I.A for too ~ong! I'oaknowwhere to fmd me! Love ya, Quigs Em- Emylou- Snyds- How about some rice mspies with sh;awberry jelly sometime? lllaven 't thrown ice out ofa window in three years- it'sabouttimewe got t()gether. Call me! The original cutie . Quigs- :Siop monopolizing the Personals! .. Tank DN- Hope all is well again- keep me· posted, okay buddy? There; sa bench in Jackson's if you ever need · to talk. Love,AQ BigDog-, Y Qu'te editor next week. Enjoy it. .. Callitatestnln for tlte spring- FSR Sully & Queen ... Great layout job this weeki It's the best one yet. I couldn~t have done it w_ithout you (yeah, right)! -Sly Eugene-Learn Layout-FSR

D,on't Just Jam 1_~here Do Something! Courte.u of STK Entertainment inc. Music Search '97 is underway! Musical artists who produce and r\!cord their own original songs are encouraged to take part by calling, toll free. l-888-8MUSIC8 to receive an official entry form, so that they can vie for top prizes in the music industry. A two-song cassette tape is the accepted format for sub- mitting material. and the deadline for entries is October 3 1,1997. Win- ners will be announced November 30,1997. \We turned heads in the music industry last year by awarding the single largest prize ever offered to undiscovered artists,\ Frank Van AWl, director of Music Search ' proudly exclaims. Due to the suc- cess of last year's contest. STR en- tertainment has created an even larger prize package for Music Search 'CJ7. Music Search '97's grand-prize winner receives2,000 CDs with full- color artwork, national product dis- tribution, marketing support (in- cluding radio promotion), the head- lining slot at the first annual Mu- sic Search Showcase Concert, and more. The second-place finisher re- ceives 1500 COs (same as above package), the opportunity to per- form at tile Music Search '97 Show- case concert, and more. The third-place finisher receives 1.000 CDs (same as above pack- age). Twent~ Music Search '97 run- nt.!rs-up 111 ill earn a slot on the Mu- -;ic Searcl1 '97 Single-Sampler CD. Music Search Si le-Sam ers are Hey Neha- You've been neglecting the lunch bunch. We miss you! Love, SMD NHS- I miss you guys. Anyone want to go to Wagamama tonight for dinner?- SO I ley Rut hie- Duck- Duck -Godse (Ruth). You diJ t.rrcat this weekend. l.ove, Stacy lu l'nion Crew- Great rmvin~ this weekend. rm ·;r) !'f<'t!d of all of you! ) .U\· t' .. \ j]cep promoted to top media and music professionals i_ncluding, A&R rep- resentatives at major record com- panies. Early next year. STR will host the first annual Music Search Show- case Concert in Atlanta. GA, fea- turing the top-three winners ofMS '97. \Last year, there was some con- fusion as to whether Music Search was a contest or an event. Now it's both, clarifies Cedrick Turner, president of STR entertainment. Last year's grand-prize winner and this year's top three finishers will all have 11ational product dis- tribution for their releases. \Our distribution arrangements will af- ford them the opportunity to sell as many CDs as they can generate demand for 2nd reap the financial benefits as well. The 2,000 COs we manufactured for Girl on Top and theminimum2,000, l,500and 1,000 COs offered as part of this year's package prime the marketing pump, so to speak. Music Search offers opportunities to get ahead in the music business, not just prizes,\ explains Turner. \We have had great media cov- erage and arejllst about to release our debut CD. The future of Girl on Top is bright, and we owe that to STRand Music Search.\ -Karen DeBiasse of Girl on Top, Music Search '96 grand-prize win- ner \As an unsigned artist, I take advantage of all legitimate oppor- tunities to get my music heard.\ -Jayne Sachs. Music Search '96 runner-up Interested mllsical artists should call today for a chance to become one of tomorrow's hot new per- formers! To the girls of 1022 Union St.- You guys are the best roommates (even though I don't ever see you)! I promise to bake again soon! Love, AQ To Mere, Kattapillar, and Angelina- Wehaveto gettogetherand catch up soon. Uno's anyone! I miss you! Love, Quigger CL- I really appreciated the shoulder offer the other night. You're a good friend. Love, .'\() . --·~ I '_, A &EF.Y.I LonpRtylllingPrinte-.\FimeCartoon ''TheSitnpsons'' MostExpegsivePrime--TimeSeriesRenmval '''Seilifdd'' Only Actor With FiveConsecutive$100MillionGrussingMovies TomCruise · MostBooksontheBestSeDerListatOne Time Steven King · · · To Rennes, France- Hope you are all having a great time! Renee- Take good care of my notes! Jon, Jen, and Erica- Hurry back- we need you! Love, Aileen To Jen Canney- We have to go bowling when you get back- I want to hear all the stories from England! Love, Aileen To my little news editor far far away- Things aren't the same in our personal study lounge without ya. I have too much candy to myself~ Can \t wait to see you again! I Awe. A() BestSeDing;Vidm The lion King BiggestOnCo'Day&xOfliceGmss lJteLost World MostCostumeChangeslnOneMovie: MadonnainEvita My fellow New Paltzies- Keep me posted on what's DN- up with you guys- we've Hope all is well again- keep been M.I.A for too long! me posted, okay buddy? You know where to find There's a bench in me! Jackson's if you ever need Love ya, Quigs to talk. Love,AQ Em- Emylou- Snyds- How about some rice Big Dog- krispies with strawberry You're editor next week. jelly sometime? Enjoy it...Call ita test run for I haven't thrown ice out of a the spring- FSR window in three years- it's about time we got Sully & Queen- Great together. Call me! layout job this week! It's The original cutie the best one yet. I couldn't have done it without you Quigs- {yeah, right)!- Sly Stop monopolizing the Personals! - Tank Eugt:nc-Lcam Layout-FSR •-'

Arts & E ntcrtainme!lt ·· · . illfp.' <Conrurbil'mds • October 9, 1997 • Page 17 . . The Right Side of Forty by A & E Editor Kim Rohback Last year,.after four Md ahalfyearsasa .photo lab technician in the Visual Arts Department, LeifZurmuhlen left Union to COJlCentrate full time on his free-lance photography career. His anticipated work, The Right Side ofForty, isatlast available. With th.e heightofthe baby boom reached in 1957, in 1997 more women in the woild will be turnii:tg forty than ever before. Zurmuhlen' shook proclaims loudly that that's the right place to be. \A joyful, upbeat, and honest collectionof fifty.-five s1riking blackcinil white photographic portrai:ts, The Right Side off orty celebrates women who, in their own time and in their own ways, have blossomed ·With age.\ The book showcases over fifty women, actresses and artists to entrepreneurs grandmothers. Zurtnuhlen' s stunning photographs are te'lmed with Patricia Martin's interviews with real women who share with her their insights on aging, femininity, and a love oflife over the age • forty.'' Zurmuhlen says that \the book is dedicated to · lving the st~reotypes and exploding the myths aging while undermining the ever present that pressures. women to equate .beauty with. ·\ \I hope that these images and \Voices in\ and support. Let them add to our culture's and understanding of women\ says Olivia author of the book's forward and · This book is of particular interest to Union. • d.ents since it features two professors and hlen wa,s a member of the faculty for four · and a half years. The book is available a:t Borders, . Barnes & Noble, the Book House, and in · Schenectady at The Open Door on Jay Street. · Right Side of Forty should be mandatory read for those who on either side- those looking down the road at that age marker as well as those discovered• that age forty, like mostdividing lines, has only the meaning that we give it,\ says .u ..... .., ... .., \Dr. Baby Boom\ Goldstein, Ph.D. · Taking a Bite Out of Dracula · Compiled by Maura Whitbold Staff Writer .,,,_~?l$~?i~f.l~i\f£\~fiff/~~KS'JA::;)t:iii~~~£~~\t~iikl~~~~j~;~-;~*l \If it's played very seriously, i fs \~: like a llorrible dream. It sucks you ~'\~'''~'~:;; .. \';i;is1:;:,:,;;;;~~.f£''':~;c;~~':li!~~~~f'~'J;iif~·c:£><~r,;~:i:'!;!~~f.J\f',~&:'E',;~w·A~?~l\t/i:.~;~V.1i~;r i;#'c'~isfl~~.:r'5ll:• ~rt'f,,i£:\if~··~~~~r;g;):~g:;;''''fo'::{i;g.;;o;*'-\K::<fJ'S~: in. You know il' s a dream, but while you're watching it you think, 'please don ~t wake me up,\' stated Jean Leclerc. The French-Canadian actor returned to the role of Dracula two decades after he first played The Count in a Broadway produc- tion. 'Dracula' opened at Capital Rep. last Friday and closes on October 26. Professor WilHam Finlay, direc- tor of Union's Yulman Theater choreographed 'Dracula's' .fight scenes as well as the beheading scene. He commented on the perfor- mance saying, \This is the most sexual, sensual and bloody Dracula ever.\ Re emphatically encourages attending the perfo.rmance, saying, \Go see it, it will be an outrageous experience!\ Despite the'technical vexations, the physical perils faced by the ac- tors and the serious horror of the material, the cast of the Capital Repertory Company production of \Dracula\ is having a hoot and a half. \The other actors and I haven't stopped laughing since I got hese. The play is very serious, but we are having fun ... making it so very frightening,\ said .Leclerc of the perfonnance. To pull offthetheattical illusion, to approximate the pace and sweep ofBram Stoker; s narrative and the seductive thrill of Drac 's adven- tures, requires exact timing. There are, for example, 240 sound cues alone in the show, in addition to numerous light cues, dozens of entrances and exits for the actors, and special effects that need to spurt blood on cue. The set, though a simple collec- tion of steps and platforms, can be treacherous to navigate: one actor tllmbled -inlo a hole in the floor, causing the cancellation of Saturday's pay-what-you-will per- fonnance. The cast's merriment notwith- standing, this \Dracula is spooky. It's bloody, haunted, disturbing~­ deadly serious stuff. The Count says during the play, \I want your fear.'' He does not say, \I vahnt to sahck your blahhhd. ·· When , Leclerc snarls, roars and angles his incisors toward a victim'sjugular, he is far from th~ goofy Dracula featured on children's cereal boxes. The fear generated on stage has to do with the human implications of the tale, said Leclerc. Dracula is ancient-600 )'eat\$ old- and lonely, driven by his need to rejuvenate himself with the blood ofthe living. In the story, which follows the book's plot more closely than do most stage and screen adaptations, .Count Dracula relocates to Victo- rian England from his castle in Transylvania. In London, he moves like the mist, enveloping the lives of two young women and their respective beaus, one of whom is Doctor Jon Seward, director of an insane asy- lum. Seward invites a mentor, vam- pire expert, Doctor Van Helsing, to London to help them battle the Count. \I can't wait to see the new and exciting view Finlay will put on a classic story,\ stated Lori Greene, Arts and Entertainment editor of the Concordiensis. . ..

'' The Right Side of Forty by A & E Editor Kim Rohback Last year, after four and a half years as a photo lab technician in the Visual Arts Department, LeifZunnuhlen left Union to concentrate full time on his free-lance photography career. His anticipated work, The Right SideofForty, is at last available. With the heightofthebaby boom reached in 1957, in 1997 more women in the world will be turning forty than ever before. Zurmuhlen' s book proclaims loudly that that's the right place to be. \A joyful, upbeat, and honest collection of fifty-five striking black and white photographic pmtraits, The Right Side of Forty celebrates women who, in their own time and in their own ways, have blossomed with age.\ The book showcases over fifty women, from actresses and artists to entrepreneurs aAd grandmothers. Zurm uhlen' s stunning photographs are teamed with Patricia Martin's interviews with real women who share with her their insights on \aging femininity. and a lovc of life over the age of forty.\ Zurmuhlcn says that .. the book is dedicated to dissolving the stereot) pes and exploding tile myths about aging while undermining the ever present hype that pressures women to equate beauty with youth.\ \I hope that these images and voices in- spire and support. Let them add to our culture's vision and understanding of women\ says Olivia Goldsmith, author ofthe hook's forward and The First Wives Club. This book is of particular interest to Union stu- dents since it features tv.:o professors and Zurmuhlen was a memher of tht· faculty fur four and a half years. The book i:. available at Borders,. Barnes & Noble, the Book House. and in Schenectady at The Open Door on Ja) StrL'~:t. \The Right Side of Forty should be mandatory reading for those who on either :.ide- those looking dov..n the road at that age marker as well a:. those who have discovered that age forty, like most dividing lines, has only the meaning that we give it,\ says Ross \Dr. Baby Boom\ Goldstein, Ph.D. Arts Program ln.New_York.City Courtesy ofUnion College Arts.Department -Applications ate due no later than Wednesday, October 15, 1997 . Taking a Bite Out of Dracula ... AppLica,tions shm.lld include: a 1 to 2 page essay 9f purpose and a portfolio selection ofno · · · more than ten representative arnvorks·these can be either originals or slides. Submit all application materials to Barbara Bell in the Main office on the first floor of the Arts Building. Decisions wilt be made knowt1 on or by November 3. Compiled by Maura Whitbold Staff Writer \I fit's played very seriously, it's like a horrible dream. It sucks you in. You know it's a dream, but while you're watching it you think, 'please don't wake me up,\' stated Jean Leclerc. The French-Canadian actor returned to the role of Dracula tv.. o decades after he fir;t pia) eJ The Count in a Broadway produc- tion. 'Dracula' opened at Capital Rep. last Friday and closes on October 26. Profl!:.sor William Finla), direc- tor of Union's Yulman Theater choreographed ·Dracula's' light scenes as well as the beheading scene. He commented on the perfor- mance saying, \This is the most sexual, sensual and bloody Dracula ever.\ He emphatically encourages attending the performance, saying, \Go see it, it will be an outrageous experience!\ Despite the technical vexations, the physical perils faced by the ac- tors and the serious horror of the material, the cast of the Capital Repertory Company production of \Dracula\ is having a hoot and a half. \The other actors and I haven't stopped laughing since I got here. The play is very serious, but we are having fun ... making it so very frightening,\ said Leclerc of the performance. To pull off the theatrical illusion, to approximate the pace and sweep of Bram Stoker's narrative and the seductive thrill of Drac's adven- tures, requires exact timing. There are, for example, 240 sound cues alone in the show, in addition to numerous light cues, dozens of entrances and exits for the actors, atld special effects that need to spurt blood on cue. The set, though a simple collec- tion of steps and platforms, can be treacherous to navigate: one actor turn bled into a hole in the floor, causing the cancellation of Sattuday ·spay-what-you-will per- formance. Tf1c cast\, merriment nut\\ ith· stanc..ling. thi-. \Dranrla i-, -.potl\). It'~ blood), haunted. di~tttrhing -- JeaJiy serious stuff. Tht: Count sa;s. during the play, \I want your fear_\ He does not say, \h·ahnt to .\<1 he!.. your hluhhhd. · WhL!n Lederc snarls, roars and angles his incisl)rs toward a victim'sjugular. he is far from the goofy Dra(.'u)a featured on children's cereal boxes. The fear generated on stage has to do with the human implications of the tale, said Leclerc. Dracula is ancient- 600 years old- an<l lonely, driven by his need to reju-venate himself with the blood of the living. Ill the story. which fi.1llo\-\s the b()ol\' s plot more closr:ly than Jo most stage and screen adaptations, Count Dracula relocates to Victo- rian England from his castle in Transylvania. lr1 London. hr: moves like the mist, enveloping the liH~s nf t\-\o young wonH:n and their rcspectiv e beau&, one of \\hom is Doctor Jon Seward, director of an insane asy- lum. Seward invites a mentor. v;ml- pire expert, Doctor Van He !sing. to Lo!ld on to help them battle the CoLJn t. \I can't wait to sec the ne\\ and ex.dting view Finlay will put on a classic story,\ stated Lori Greene, Atts and Entertainment editor of the C'oncordiensis.

I>\. We take a lot of pnde in gamlfl\H high marks from the maJor services. Btlt the fact IS, we're equally proud of the ratings we get m th~ mat! every day fr.orn our parttctpams. Bec11useat TIAA-CREF, en.:sunng the fman· cia! futures of the educatton and research communitY is <:;1\\rt\''~~·•\\ that goes beyond stars and numbers. So hom traditional and vanabl~ am'lultt~}sto life insurance and personal savings plans. you'll ftncl we provide the nnht cholCes--and the dEldwatmn-·--- to help YC?U achieve a lifetimft of financial goals The .ratm.g services back us up. So does Bill. ., To recmve a free Personal Investirlg Kit, indud1ng charges and expensea. plus our vmiable annuity· prospectuses, cal! us at 1 800 226-014'7 Please read them carefully before you mvest or ·send money.: www;tiaa-<:ref .org Ensurll'lg,the fyt\r~ tor those who shape it~'\ .; '(• '\t·1'1 :l'!-:;\.'!1 ·'l :.!·,. l s·<) V. · l\·' :•.-;ow ·'· ,., ,')'~• •'·Tlt ·~· '>- ...... • • 1 .ii! ~··':\. !fp,' t~b h:·r~~i , .. l .._-t· .. :.~ •••.. , •• , .... \~;· ,, ·,t:J t· ·I· ·,.''\, ·.: h<~ih. :'t.IIH ;;,vf'l)\1.~~'·nt .. ·3tio\\10~'\-\ ?....-;f;l;•~ $P.·~~·<..:Uns {!\'I ·.\\';, 't\ 1'1;0, ' !• ... •,\:u\ 1,• ••1. ; 1~'\ 'lt I ~-,'- '1'\.:, ' ,~ •. :to:_. ··-'::t . ~ t :.-....•. ',. :! t.-.~; •11 ~ .. ~~-·1 ~· H ::<1,n~ , 1.1't\l•ll.. ~\.~b. •. 1·~· .. Tk)~l{h c. w. !-\ 111<•:\~.l'l· 'Zlt< ~· ,lH ·\'.Cib-.ik-th:UH:Jn ~h.~ih:'l~tttn 1;,. lh!~'\\ h'.tf.· {tlUi . ~:~ .~~:~~.~~~~;;~~·! ~~l;~~;• ~:~~··~/~~·:' J ~- 1 :~. ;l ;~.·~:·.' 1 ~!~:~.~~·:':· ~~·,•· ~:-~:~~ ~:: ··: 1 ~~;--~~·~~:r ll~.> ;.r:: ~~·:.:~:::~~~r~l~~;~~ ~~:::: ;\~1~~ .;~~;:~\~,f:~: ~~;::~.~~--~:~:~~~l;~;,)t~~~~~;;~~~ ~~:~;~=~~~~li~:~~;~~~~~~~ ·i .. ,:-s. r: .P!\· t.- ·.·~l:.o- ••:·· ·~vr--~~ :.-YP-.\1! W'Vr:.=tr OREF St«:k Accot~nl ~\:'.rtl R.1u.q l'Jtm.t.~ 1 -.t tk•!l\l'·~t'lt\ r qw•y At c..;;u.o~ H,l~t;.,.l .; i 1:~~~ t ··~ • CJISF Bond Madra~ f,ccoi!J)l ~:tAt f: ~!.H\!·) !'-lumh··r <:>! rj}'t'}d-!nc~i'I\U:· /4,1 I \{-·l~fft: \'~t(t•<J ·1 '.£.(. ·I.;£..; N A ....• - ~------ --- .. --~---···· ··---~----··\····-····· ~--·<>\···· --· .................................. ····-·------. CREF SO<:iu Cli£F Global CREJ' Jlqulty CRV' GrcwUI Choice ACCO!ml l'l<IUllifl Aewu~ ~.,. fo .. ~t ACCOI!IIt ~t.1r f!.rfti<I:.J 1-.,.0,_Jinl't~ .StM ?...tJUt'i~ :?h:rn~r of Sta' Harrn~tr f'h.itnb£,t or SUtf flatmu: Numb~! ot .,.: i.lotrh'h.'t ::_ 'f::qw!y lr.terna:.;e>rMt t~q:..tt\} OmnfmtJi~ ~~tllflt'V Dt.lrt'Hh'tu: E(4,llitY -~~'l.'fJUnt:-:. !~ah'ox1 Al~·t·ou:thi H:...wd i\l~t\'U!lt~·Rate<i .f\N~unro. Ra\tttJ 4 ~ 4~J ~ ~~1 '>il4?.:l 'j' 142:1 ,; Jl.i ~ l!:!& N:·A - N:A N ,\ N·A N;A N/A . -·- ~ .. ·-·- ·············- .... --·····-· ........ - ....... --····· ············-------·--·-' CDC Updates ••• . · Visit our web site at http://www~uni~n.edu/career/cddalc.html fru all the Jatest events. ALUMNAE LEADERSHIP ROUNDTABLE Monday, ()ctober 13 Jn RCC 305 at 4pm -Speaker Valerie Hoffman '7S Esq. speaking on .,Prill()iples for Success.\ Reception and' dinner to follow for alumni and students. O.FF..CAJAPU$ .RECRUITING MEETINGS 1\lesday, October 14 at 4 aud 7pm at U1e CDC- Information on the Boston and New York City Recruiting J;>ays. All students iJtterested in participating should attend this meeting. ~·WHAT IS ADVERTISINc=. ALL ABOU'n\ Tltursday. October16, tm at 8pm at the CDC- R<>bQlllsll '83. a . Vice-President of a New York Oty advertising agency. (00PERS & LYBRAND ·Students interested in applying must fill out an Online AJ)plication. Acce$s their web sire; www.clspringboard.oom. DROP..INS . fOr quick questions.and resun1elcoverlettet crJtiques come l>etwetn3 and Spm. Monday through Friday, to speak with an Advisor. \EXTRA INCOME FOR '97- Eorn.$500 • $1000 weekly stuffing envelopes. For details • RUSH_ $1.00 wHh SASE to:.· aaou• 1 -1147 IJlAcld••r llwt.Dipt.N Colorado lprlllge, ·co,IOftl - . -,--

I • ·Union Crew Strong At '-Head of the Mohawk\ - - College~ Newest Varsity Sport Seeing Succ.e~s Already by Nick Papanickl>las & NehaShah Staf[Writers Indian summer had returned for Union College's first varsity crew race at the Head of the Mohawk Regatta. The multitude ofpeople at the launch site was amazing. The array ofscbool colors from the various colleges and high schools participating in the .l'egatta, com- l>ined with the fleets of boats on the water made for a pictur.esque afternoon. Some of the many col- leges attending the regatta in- cluded RPI, Albany, Army, Hofstra, and Russell Sage. As the Union women hit the wa- ter, anticipation was felt by many. The challenging three mile course ·included adifficu•It 130- degree turn in the middle of the race; which Perspectives at the Nott Professo·r · for U11l 011~ held a strong· ·nome course Etdva11tage. The women's · .first a11d !lecond boats, determioe:d andpoised, got ·off:t~- a: strong start. . UniiQn' s first eight ( co.mpris:e.d of J en · Brady,. Na~mmah TaR; Kenley Smith; Kelly Houle-, Mel iss.a · Sullivall, Tara Noyes, - Katie Ott, Molly Shaner, amd coxswain • Cori K;autz~ maintained the inte11sity needed t<J pull awa::yfl·l()mthefield and \-\\'ill the first Bellevue: ·~omen's C11p with & tiJlle of 18:35. The awilrcl is given to the wim11 ill& women' s· open e~ght at the MCJh;awk Regatta. Jen Brady after tile r;ac:e saic;l, \wiflning our Jurgen Habermas. - ! ' ~~Learning !rom· Catastrllf hes7 - A Brief Look Back at thC:) Sfto:rt Twentieth Century', THURSDAY, -oct .. 16 7:3o· P.M. . ·\:·I t - THE NOTT MEMORIAL first race as a varsjty team sets a precedent ofgreat things to come I for the Union College Crew team.\ The men's second and first beats .finished second and third respec- : One of the greatest social, t_I1Jnkers 1 Jurgen Habermas has . . 'n91ashioned our thinking about technology and culture! poli- dv:ely with Gnly two seconds-sepa- rating them. Coxswain Ted Wallace· stated, \The guys have been training very hard. Unfortu- nately this race was an off day for the guys, but I am confidl;mt that the Head of the Charles Re- . gatta [in two weeks l will be the true proving ground for Union.\ T he men this year hold a lot of depth throughout both boats which will lead to a very competi- tive vie for seats in the top boat. The day was also a success for the Union College novice rowers who after only four days on the water, were able to place·third in both the men and women's events. As they gain more confidence and skill on the water their races will only he more successful. On the weekend ofOctober the 18th Union Crew will be travel- ling to Boston to participate in the Head.ofthe Charles Regatta. We will be sending six ·!:;~ats under Uni.on Crew and Star and Crescent Rowing Club (Union's affiliated club rowing organization). This regatta is extremely world re- fi(:)Wned as the cities of Boston and Cambridge fill with spectators from colleges and universities throughout the country and the entire world. Please come and support Union Crew at the Head oftheCharles in Cambridge, MAin one week. We look forward to see you at the Union tent! .Scheneeta4y Museum .. Union College 1997-98 Conc¢rt Series International Festival of Chamber Music XXVI prlllfmh: Spoleto USA Chamber Music Festival Charles Wadsworth, director Famed artists from the Spoleto S.C. chamber music {e£tival. the co~certs t~re enhanced by Charles Wadsworth~ insightful and witty conm:entaries. Capital District Debut Featuring Cbec-. Y11n. violin; Andrea Dlaz, ceUo; Todd Palmer, <:larinet; Stephen Pmlsma11 and ·Oxe·Yil~t. Violin Charles Wadsworth. piano · Suk-Eiegie for piatto trio; &artok-Contrasu; Schubert-Fantas, in (. , D. 9'40:/f>r pia11o 4-h.amls; Po'ule_nr.:-Giarinet sonat4; Smemna-Pia~to trio FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17 at 8 p.m. . Union College MemorialChapel FOR UNION STUDENTS ADMiSSION IS FREE For free rickets. see Sylvia Nozny in Scheduling, Reamer Campus Center 404C . rm UNION COU£CB Career Deuelopment Cellter ·SENIORS . tics and·postmo.Cfernism;·;:l<~w and demo.cracy. In his talk~ he will examine the peculiar face of the twentieth century (be- tween 1914 and .1989) ch;a racterized by the Cold War, Decolonization, and the reduction of class conflict against the · background of-changing trends in demographic growth, in technology,. and in pqttern s; of production. Committed to illuminating living controversies, Professor Habermas V\/ill TheCDCandourconsortium schoolsaresponsoringrecruitingdaysinN~wYork City h h II d h -~ f '( If (January 23) and Bost01i (January 8). rn order to apply to participate, seniors will need to: COnSider t e ( ~ a engeS nOW pOSe -_ tO t e - ragJ e We are- •attendtheNYC&BostonRc&ruitineDaylnformatjonMeetin~at4or7pmonTuesd~,October State COmpromise by the StreSSeS and dislocatiOnS Of prima- ocompl;~~~~~gContntct(ifyouhavenotalreadydoneso),and - • •submit the appropriate materials (reswne, etc.) on lhe deadline dates: November 4 for Boston; rily economic globalization; _he aSkS the disquieting quest10n 1 November7forNewYmtCity is there any Viable afternatille tO the neOCOnServatiVe Come on the 14tlttoleammoreabout tile participating employers, which include advertising, arts .adminiStration, communications, consultfug, fmance, human services; law, public telations. - r_e_spo nse_ ? . pt~blishing, real estate, retail management, sales (financial, phannaceutical, etc.). scientific L-....:...- ,...!.. __ ........ _________________ ....._ __________ _, research, and teaching positions: -~ A<lvest AMICA · · Allalysis Group Economics . · Althur Andersen ll:ankBoston . Bell Atlantic Cambridge A'i.~odates Coopers & Lybrand Cushing Acadelily Deloitte & Touche Federal Reserve Bank of Boston Fleet Bank Genetics Institute Harvard Medical School . Hill. Holiday lnteract Nova · In-vestors Bank & Trust Mellon Bank . Merck&Co. . QLDE DiSOOlltltCorporation :Partners Health System Price Waterhouse Progressive l'lltnam Investments .SPHERE Consortium SiJn Life of Canada '\V''()rldteach .. NewYotk Ann Taylor Bantam Doubleday Dell Brown& Wood Citiliank:, NA Cleary, Gottlieb. Steen & Hamilton Coopers & Lybrand!Kwasba Lipton Group C~vath, Swaine & Moore Equis Financial Institutions Consulting Goldman Sachs JPMorgan ,. Julia Dyckman Andrus Memorial Law and Economics Consulting Group Leaton Financial Group Macy• s Northeast Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Musellll1 of Modem Art National Economic Research Associates NBC New Vorl University Medical Center Oliver, Wyman & Company Orrick, Hcrri11gton & Sutcliffe Ruder Finn Siegel & Gale Silnoa &. Shuster Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom St. Martin Is Press . Y Al. Nat!. lnsL for Peopl~ with Disabilities

I . '' ' i I' ' ' Page Z() • October 9, 1997 \ U:l!r O:::uncnruimsis · - . . Sports - --·----~-_.......__....-~ ~--------------'-------'-----·------------ ____ ._ ____ ---~----------- _,__ __________ -·-- --------- ------ - ---- - ~- ------- Men's Soccer Faces Mixed Results In B\ISY Week by David Weiner Staff Writer Coming off their stellar perfor- mance in tile .second half of their game against Vassru· last week, the men'ssoccer~eamwas looking for mementum to carry them through what pos~d to he an extremely challenging and somewhat impor- tant week. While the team did not post the victories th~y were look- ing fQr, their solid performance against seemingly superior teams left them with their destiny in their own hands. Although the team's record is not indicative of their play, the Jlrogress the team has continued t() make throughout the season lea'Ves the.m believirrg that their best play will come when they need it most- when they play higher ranked teams. The possi- bility of a r>layoff birth is still a strong possibility, and the team's remaining schedule gives them a solid opportunity at finding them- selves in the post-season. With this in mind, th<lugh, we must remem- ber that this week was anything but stellar. Williams 6- Union 0 Knowing that Williams was a superior team coming into this game, Uni()n knew they had to put forth a perf~ct perfonnance ifthey were to earn a victory in this con- test. Having played a superb .sec- ond half against Vassar just days before, the team knew they were capable of such a performance. While the ball did not bounce their way at various points during this game, the final score is not: nearly an accurate retlection of how the Union squad piayed. Unlike the majotlty oftheirpre- vious contests, Union, from the first whistle played hard. Rather than opening sluggishly and fight- ing back in the second half, the team played extremely .hard throughout the entire game and for the first 3'0 minutes, kept Williams scoreless. Towards the end of the first half, a Williams player crossed the ball to another of his teammates who was able to blast the ball home after a defensive breakdown by Union. Then, just minutes later, another breakdown on an identical play allowed Will- iams to net their second goal, As the first half came to a close, Union remained down by two goals, but held their heads high, knowing they still had a chance. The game against Williams ev- eryyear is a reminder of how suc- cessfulthe Union soccer program would like to be. Williams was, by far, a superior team. During half time, there wel'e two things Coach Quinn could have told the team.. He could ·have. said either \play defensively and be happy with ·Qn]y a two to nil loss to such a good team,\ or he could have said \play aggressively, go after the ball,- and try to winthis.gcune.\ Now, the second altevnative is quite risky and poses the possibil: ity of being caught shorthanded defensively, but also alJows the opportunity to get back in the game. This is exactly what Union did and although Williams found the hole~ in the Union defense, Union played an extremely solid gameandtookthis loss as a moval victory. RPI 2 - Unj()n ·0 Once again, Union lost a \squeaker'; to a solid and, more than likely, a better RPI team. For the majority of this game, neither teain was able to mount much of .an offense. This flow ofthe game went back and forth as each team moved the ball up an<l down the field, yet neither could putthe ball in the net. Then, about ten min~ utes into tile .second·half, RPl was awarded a free kick deep in Union territory, and RPI was able to capi-. talize on the opportunity as the netted the first goal of the game. Although RPl held the lead on the score board, Union realized the Young Women's Volleyball Team Gets Much-Need,ed Victo:ry by Ben Yaffee Collfl'iliuting Writer Many factors contribute to winning. A ,good mix of age with youth, depth atthe major positions, a star player or two, and solid coaching, since it came over a division two school,\ said Freidrich. With a young team, lacking even a single senior, Coach Leslie Bogucki new it was going to be a rocky season. \I knew it was a rebuilding year for us and that there would be a lot of adjustments although realizing their disappointing record, believes things are headed in the right direction. \We're clearly improving, everyone's working really hard and things are coming together for us.\ Freidrich added, \things are definitely· starting to fall in are just a place.\ few ofthe This is necessary g o o d elements. news for T h e Coach women's Bogucki volleyball w h o team, alo.ng although w i t h on the , . wanting r i g h t her team t r a c k , to play may be a respect- s e a s o n -.. ,i v ·e l y ~ a w a y , . wants to from the seethem o bv i ou s ~::::;;;_---\------------------.!!.--~ ........ -----'\'~ with a goal of __ u._\'_·o_n_'s_v_ol_le_:v_ha_l_l t_e~am-:-(n_e_a_'r_si_d\\:e)::-:h_a-=-s-a 7 g_re_a_t a_mo_- _u~n_r_of_y~o_u_th---:(. 7 'S.~lo 7 a_ne_M._ .. _Jl_le_r/TI_._CJ __ g 0 0 d winning. in terms of bringing a new group attitude. Winning hasn't come often for together.\ There is only one Everyone wants to wi:n the three and eleven Dutchwomen returning starter from last years immediately, but this is not a this year. This years team, comprised <Jf three juniors, four sophomores, and seven freshmen have one c.ommon goal, play competitively. They did that and more when they took their four game losing streak to division two opponent; St Rose lastThursday. Beh.ind solid play from juniors Erika Frei!lrich and Kathleen Ruggiero, Union came away with the victory (15-7. 15~ 12, 16-14). The win instilled Union with a better outlook for the rest of the season and the future. \The win gave us co11fidence, especially team, outside hitter/setter, Erika realistic goal. Winning is a process. Freidrich, so the main goal for the which takes time. You can't wake season was to come away with a up one morning and decide .to win, starting line-up that would gel it must evolve.. The women's together. Coach Bogucki volleyball team will play maintains that she hasn't thrown competitively and occasionally, as the towel in just yet, \I haven't St. Rose found out, win. However; looked toward nextseasonyet,J'm this is not their year to win trying to focus on improving. 'Our consistently, this is their year to skills.\ However, she does add learn, grow, and come together. that the team needs two big hitters Thursday's win over St. Rose gave to solidifY next years team. them a taste of what will be a The usual pessimistic attitude common occurrence in .tb.e future. that comes with being three and TheDutchwornen looktowin their elevendoesnotseemtollangover . second .game in a row at home this enthusiastic bunch. Ruggiero, today against Oneonta. possibility that another win may tier, Union cme into the Skidmore escape them and ·slowly .began to game extremely sluggish. To add control the pace ofplay. Just min- to their exhaustion, the game was utes after RP·I netted their goal, played' on Astroturf, resulting in a Union seemingly scored a goal of more arduous gatne. their own. Ibrahim Adamu After realizing that they are a streaked in towards the net and · better team than their opponents, headed the ball away .from the RPI Union began to control and domi- goalie and into the net. However, nate the remainder of the game. as Adarnu headed the ba:H, the ref... Union scored both their goals in eree pxematurely blew his whistle,. the first half ·and throughout the. signaling a foul on Adamu. This second half, controlled. the pace of was a clear mistake. by the referee play and mere.ly ran out the clock, and·ratherthanthegamebeingtied taking home a victory. andUnionholdingthe momentum, Although the team only posted RPI had the ball; and the lead, one win this week, the prospects Later in the second half, RPI for the remainder of their season posted the goal that put the game are still extremely positive. After soJ1]ewhatout of reach. this week in which the team lost The poor luck ofthe Union team two,out ofthre~ games; Union was left them enduring another loss, still ranked, tenth i~ the region. hut this squad did not lettheir luck They will ~·lso play Rochester, dampen their spirits. From the first Clarkson, and St. Lawrence, the whistle to the last, Union played first, fourth, and ninth ranked their hearts outand left everything teams respectively in the region. they had on the field. There was Having had a week with three con• nothing they could do about the sisten,t and solid performances, the calls made by the referees and the team is hoping that their continual team was simply forced to deal improvement win begin to show with the card~ they were dealt and in the win column. Their sched- once again t~e the positives from ule provides them with the oppor'\ their perfomiance into their next tunity to move ap drastically in the contest against Skidmor¢. standings or to fade away into the horizon. It is still quite realistic ·Union 2- Skidmore 0 that the teatn will reach the ECAC pla)'f>ffs, we will simply have to Having played a hard fought, wait and see if the team grasps the grueling game just 17 hours ear- opportunity that awaits them. USA III Poll 1 MouQt Union Rai~ers (4-0) 2 Simpson Storm ( 4-0) 3 Rowan_ Profs ·c 4~0) 4. Wisconsin-Whitewater Warhawks ( 4-0) 5 Emory & Henry Wasps (4~0) 6 Wittenberg Tigers (4-0) 7 Illinois Wesleyan Titans (3-0) 8 Hardin Simmons Cowboys ( 4~0) 9 Albright Lions (3-0) 10 John Carroll Blue Steaks (4-0) · 11 Catholic Cardinals ( 4-0) 12 St. Thomas Tommies (4-0) 13 Methodist Monarchs ( 4-0) 14 Central Flying Dutchmen (3-1) 15 Union Dutchmen ( 4-0) 16 Lycoming Warriors (4-0) 17 Hanover Panthers (5-0) 18 Cortland State Red Dragons ( 4-:0) 19 Trinity (IX) Tigers (4-0) 20 Susquehanna Crusaders (4-0) . 21 College qf New Jersey Lions (3-1) · 22 Widener Pioneers (4-0) 23 Con.cotdia (MN) Col?be.ts (5~0) 24 Coe Kohawks (5-:0) 25 -western Maryland Green Terrors (5-0)

I :e 'd IS a a ;, i- • ,, [l e f ., Do You Hiss Someone? . . Get Closer, Send ·pzowers! . ·L . .. ~t. r, t!A g~nt I .. · UDC11 JUStYJ~. 7, • Mon.-Sat 11AM-3:30PM Fratlk Gallo- & Sotl Florist ' / . can· Send Y·our FloWers Atro.ss Campus or Tetenont·· .A.A. ......... _.... Only $7. 95!! Mon.-Thur~ 4PM-lOPM Fri.-Sat. 4PM-10:30PM Sunday 12PM-10PM ,1, • • Across Co11ntry. $ ORDER· ONLlN.E ····:I t-ww·w .frankga Uo. com CALL .US TODAY!! . 1-800-442-55.63 ' .. Phone: (518)356-5949 1116 Altamont Ave. Rotterdam, NY 12303 · From Union: Take Nott Terrace ·to State St Take a left onto State St & follow to the Route 7 signs. ~........,..__...._.,_._....._....._...._~------------1 Take aright onto Route 7 f'TheCr~town\). ' Frank Gallo & Son Florist . - ~ . \ • 856 Crane Street, Schenectady .. ·~· _1790: Altamont Avenue, Rotterdam • 123 Saratoga Road, Socha Plaza, Scotia • 19 Clifton Country Road, Village Plaza, Clifton Park (Opening Soon) . Website Services By Digicom 888428-SWEB Continue straight as Route 7tnms into Curry Ikl Foftow Curry until you're surroundOO by strip malls. ' At Altamont Ave., take a left Ocean Bulfet is on y&urleft rake-out Menu Avatlabk And · we Acceyt Visa & Ma1ercard \ COME INTO MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! Scheneetady - 1041 State Street - 382-5776 ONEHOUn · , MOTOPHOTO. . ,, . '

i. J I , ' ' I>age 22. October 9,1997. un1~ illonroroimsis_ - - ' ' ' ' Sj1()1'1S Slabich Leads Women's X-C slightly, said to Casey, \Amy's like dead.\ Casey deemed Men's X-C Finishes Fourth in the UCAA's by Jason Everett Staff Writer ish. Ten meters from the fmish line,. Slabich appeared completely spent and hit \the wall.\ Slabich appearedto be on the verge of col~ lapsing and stopped 10 meters from the finish line while oppos- ing runners passed by as Slabich 's le:gs became more and more Slabich' s finish \miraculous.\ • by Jason Everett Slabich finished fourteenth in . Staf!Writer kick over tb.e last mile, cawtured thirteenth .in the sixty runner mce in a time of 2Jl:46. HeadC:htcb Charlie Casey commentetl th~t, \:[It is]. pretty 'l'espectable for- J~y to fmish tltirteenth in that fje'Jd.\ Not competing for the men was Dave I<unseiJ11an. Caseys~id tlut it \obviously didn,t help that I>a'Ve The Union women's cross- country team traveled to Hobart and Williams Smith Colleges this past Saturday to compete in the 20:24, an outstanding time despite • ---.....,...-,....o.;.; ___________ ..,__ doing the last ten meters in thirty seconds. Running in her last UCA.A · championships was . senior ·Kelly Jamieson · whoran a highly respectable 20:57 to finish nineteenth . Also running an ·outstanding race · was junior I<atie Mac Do we II, who finished twenty .. third in 21:25. The Union men's cross .. country team traveled to Hobart and Will- iam Smith Colleges this past Sat- urday to compete in the *ird an- nual Upstate C<:>Uegiate Athletic Association XC championships .. The men. raced 5 m i I e s ( 8 K ) over the· · as Jlhal t and con-. c r e t e . course, with a few scat- tered sec- tions of grass. 'F h e wa:s:n't with llS.'' N! .e \'t in forthe me~~as jumi()r H ll! ~· l1 . Me}J~l'in ·twe·n ty· third annual UCAA champion• ships. The women raced 3.1 miles (5K) over the cam a pus course. Not compe~ing for the women was Union's top fin- isher at the William's Invita- tional two weeks ago, junior Jessica Goveia, who is te- covering from in- jury. Although Goveia wou}d have contended for a top finish over the fast cam- pus coutse, there ·.course eightll in 30: ll' Ca~ ey said that Hugh's time af- ter lti s race- ~tt Willia111s was stilI a fair close races. Ev- share of outstand- ery time there Runners Cha1Uy McManaman & Katie MacDowel/(Jay Everett!TC) ing performances------------------------~--------------- was a close race fortheUnion women. weary. With teammate Jay in he last 200mwewon.\ Casey· Despite the women being with- Goldberg screaming and pleading also went on to praise Union XC . out their early season leader, the for her to cross the line, Slabich rookie, senior Allison Ciolino, Women were led by freshman eventually managed to cross the who finished fourth on the squad standout Amy Slabich, Who de- line, holding on for fourteenth in 22:19. spite b~ing overcome with severe place. Slabich, soon after cross- The women's results are as fol- dehydration in the last 20m of the ing the line received prompt atten- lows: 14. Amy Slabich 20:24; 19. race, led the Dutchwomen in their tion and after twenty minutes of Kelly Jamieson 20:57; 23. Katie fourt11 place team finish. receiving ice and cold water, was MacDowell 21 :25; 30. AIHson Running in the top ten as she up and about. Cilollno 22:19; 3 I. Charity neared the finish line, running HeadcoachCharlieCasey,who MacManaman22:26;36.Melissa. neckaand-neck with an opposing was 150m from the finish line Magner 22:55; 38. Mauni Culloo · runner, Slabich began to feel the ./earned of Slabich's dramatic fin- 23:0 I; 41. Emily Morse 23: lJ; 51. effects of the unusually warm ish from fellow freshman Jon Aleksandra Podgorny 24:40; 61. weather and barley held on to fin- Nieman, who exaggerating Aimee Marko 28:48. Wild and Wooly Week For Union Wo~nen's Tennis by Brian Terlinsky Staff Writer It was definitely a wild week for women's tennis at Union. First of all, if you ask any member of the ing (6-1 ,6-2); while second seed sophomore Jodi Uiberall also had it rough, falling ( 6-1,6- I). \They were a very consistent and well rounded team. Skidmore is known to win states, so they are very tough competitors,\ Ui_berall said. The match play was no differ- ent for the rest of the. singles teams, in which Skidmore controlled the tone of the match. Third seed I They were a much stronger team then we were,\ DeLucca said. As Union kriew What to expect from Skidmore, the team put that match behind them, to gear up for a special weekend. Having Home- coming and parent's weekend to- gether definitely pumped up the women and theirplaytruly Showed this. Union faced Oneanta State for their homecoming match and it · women's tennis team to choose a team they dread playing the most, they won't even hesitate before sh<>uting out Skidmore. Well, it came time in their schedule to play them this past week and it was notreal fun for the giils. Even though Union lost hard, Union made up for it on the week- · ''Skidn1ore is known was a much different situa- . tion. This time Union pre- vailed, sweeping Oneanta 9- 0, in a huge comeback from . their mid-week match. end, by reversing the situa- tion, and crushing Oneanta State at home during parent's weekend. Union's record stands at 4-4. to \vin states, so they are very tough cotnpetitors.'' All six singles matches · were commanded by Union. Top seeds Lawton, (6-1 ,6·2) and Uiberall, (6·1 ,6-0) won easily, while, DeLucca, (6- 0;6-l}, Rogers, (6·1, 6-0), Rubin, (6-2,6-0j, and tessier, La.st Wednesday, Union made the trip north to Saratoga Springs, facing the wornen of Skidmore. Just to give a little background informa- tion, Skidmore is known for hav- ing one of the best women's ten- nis program in Division HI, and are the defending champions of the ECAC. This was probably one of the hardest matches of the year for Union, who were swept .hard in matches, 9-0. All top Union singles players had tough Skidmore opponents Skidmore, who did not allow any Unioll players to win a single set. Top seed 'Sophomore Cassie Lawton had a difficult match, los- - · SojJh. Tenni/·; PlayeJ~ Jodi Uiberall sophomore Jen DeLucca, came up short (6-0,6-4)and fourth seedjun.- ior Courtney Rogers, fell (6-0, 6- l). Other scores included the fifth and six seeds, Becky Rubin and Dawn Tessi~r. being defeated (6- 3,t-O)and (6-2,6-0), respectively. In the doubles brackets, match play seemed to be the same: dotni- nallce by Skidmore. Doubles teams of Lawton~DeLucca, Rogers-Ui.berall, and Rubin- Grajny, all had problems with their opponents, losing (8-4 ), (8-1 ), (8- 5),. respectively. \We lost bad. (6-2, 6-2), all cruised smoothly to victory. The case was the same for the doubles matches with Lawton-DeLucca, Rubin- Gr~ny, and Jeffords-Tessier, all defeating their opponents, (8-0,8- 0), (8-0), (8-1), respectively. \We went out and played well :md the team is doing quite good,\ sopho- more Abby Jeffords said. Union still has important matches to play including, RPI this weekend .. Also the state champi- onship is in a few weeks, meaning wi1111ing is a must to receive a good seed in the tournament. w a s slightly longer than the announced 5 miles thus makiQg the final times 30-40 · seconds slow. The men finished fourth in the six team .contest with 128 points. Hamilton finished third with 95 points. · Leading the way for the men was senior Jay Goldberg. Goldberg, using a strong finishing is \pretty good.\ The men's 1~­ sults are as f()),Jows: 13. Jay Goldberg 28 :46;.28. Hugh J\il;ey~I 30:13; 36. Kenny Scott31:15;3T. Terry Chang~31:33; 40. Jof) Chan 32:05; 41. Jon Nieman 32:14; 53. Evan Jahn 34:13; 55. CCJrey Mathis 34:40;. 58. Siraj Bhadsavle 36:.56;. 59. Ale:x Miletello 39:]4. Football ·1 0/18 @ Rensselaer (Both Teams Have Byes This Weekend) 10/14 10/9 10/11 10/14 10/11 10/10 10/11 10/15 Men's Soccer RIT Women's Soccer HARTWICK @ William Smith ·@Williams Women's Tennis @ William Smith (UCAA Tournament) Field Hockey: @Rochester @ William Smith VASSAR Volleyball 1 0/10 & 10/1 i @ I:Jamilton (UCAA Tournament) 10/l4 HARTWICK 1:30 4:00 4:00 2:00 4:15 3:00 4:00 2:00 4:00 TBA 7:00 ~ I ( t \ l il II h

I :h t, :y ., IS lt e t ,, r: I The Baltimore Orioles advRJiced to thejr second straight ALCS by defeating Randy J()hnson and the Mariners in game four,totakethe series three ·games to one; The Otioles beat Johns.on twice in the series, including game on<:: in whiChhegottocked. Jobnso.n C!lll- not beat the O's, and his record proves that, against the Mariners 3-91ifetime. Baltimore took com- mand of the series by winnipg; the first tWo game~ in Seattle rather handi]y. The MVP of the series has to be Mike Mussin@. Who (JUt- pitched Johnson in both ··game one and the decisive game four .. Mussinahasn't lostto:beM's since September 1, 1995, and in 12 starts· he is 9-1 with a 3.74 earned run average. An unsung hero for Bal- timore has to he shortstop Mik.e Bordick who started rallies with base knocks, played brilliantly de· fensively, and dJ()ve in an occa .. sionalrun. The vaunted. Mariner's offense was nonexistent through- out the serie~ in<:Iuding the Kid who didn'thit a homer. Cornbined as a team, S.eattie hit .218 with 42 strike-outs and only seven walks. Baltimore will now host tlie first two gamt:s-of the AL Champion- ship starting Wednesday vs. either .the Yankees or Indians.· Cleveland staved off elimination by rallyfng in· the pottom of the eighth to tie the game on Sandy · AJomar' s. home run off closer Marian.o River~, and eventually won the game·iri dramatic fashion .in the-bottom cofthe ninth. In the ·ninth~ Omat Vizquel bounced a single off los~r Ratniro Mendoza to score Marquis Grissom from .second. The Yanks bad jumped to an early.2-0 leadoff starter Ore! Hershiser on Paul O'Neil's double andCecilFielder' stwo-out single. Cleveland cut their ~tead in half in the second inning thanks to David Justice's solo horner. The score remained 2-1 unti'l the bottom of the eighth wllen Alomar tied the for the Braves to win the series in seven tight games and go ott to another World Series. NFL Update game in the bottom of the eighth. The :Sues stop here. Tampa There will now be a decisive game Bay, the lastremaining undefeated five in Cleveland pitting Andy ' team in the NFC and the surprise Petite for theY anks against rookie story of September, suffered its hard thrower right bander Jaret first loss of the season to the de• Wright for the Indians. fending Super Bowl champions The. Braves and Marlins will ·Packers·. Green Bay jumped out face off in the NLCS in a best-of- to an :early 18-point lead, but se.ven series beginning in Atlanta Tampa Bay nearly came back in on Tuesday night. Maddux will the second half before falling 21- start game one for the Braves 16 at Lambeau Field. againstKevinBrownfortheMar- The Cowboys are in trouble lins which should be a classic again, and their woes are on the pitching rnatch~up. Florida won field. Dallas self-destructed in a the season series 8,-4 against the 20-17 loss to the Giants at Giant Braves, and the Marlins are ex- StadiUD1. A penalty denied them tremely confident that they will be a chance to tie the game with a last abie to pull off the upset, Look second field goal. The Cowboys outg.ained the Giants 428 yards to 1()6 and dominated time of posses- sion (40:37-19:23). They could only produce one offensive touch- doV'Vn in five opportunities inside New York's 20 yard line. Dallas als()·cornmitted I I penalties cost- ingtltem I 19 yards. None loomed larg,er than a game-ending five- yard penalty that prevented the Cowboys from lining up a game tying field goal. Dallas' record stan<isat 3-2 going into the brutal .part oftheir schedule starting next M<111day night against the Red:skins on Monday night. After playi11g the Redskins, they return home to play the Jaguars, and then go ()ll the road to face their arch- rival, the 49ers. EtL Note: Since the writing of this article, theNY Yankees were eliminated by Cleaveland Football Now 4~tJ •.. Cont'dl ;From Page 2.4 nately on at least ten-play drives. yards, compared to 300 rushing Two years ago, it was then- McKeown ''s two interceptions in the first half hid his other crucial statistics. He completed eigllt of his 15 passes for I 91 yards and a touchdown, keeping his fifth-place position in passing efficiency in Upstate New York. For the third out of four games, senior Latella, rushed for.over I 00 yards with his 132-yard r~shing performance, inCluding his touch- down. His performan.ce earned Latella a .place on the ECAC md UCAA Honor Rolls. Latella, li'ke many other of- fensive play- ers, credited th.e offensive line for his success. \lt feels great The offensive line deserves a lot of 'the· credit. They were opening the holes, and I was just hitting them today.\ Latella's partner in the backfield, Matt Braunwart, ha<l a career day with his three touch· downs, two receiving and one rushing. Braun wart, who averages a touchdown per game this seas<m, echoed Latella's sentiments. \Any of out running backs could have. pushed it in. Our o[ffensive] line is a bunch of animals up front and got it done.\ On the receiver end, Smith did all ofhis work in the first half, catching four passes for 59 yards:. The sole second-half pass of Jeff Ferraro was good for tlte Braunwart touchdown, making F~rraro two for two in his colle- giate career for two touchdowns. Ferraro said, \When I first stepped onto the field, I just wanted to coll- trol the ball. It's always great when yourteam'sbehindyou. Our line did a heck of a job today open- ing up holes I haven't seen in a long time.;' De-von, ~e-jense The defense had a stellar day, holding Rochester to 50 rushing yards for Union, and 148 yards passing. Wimberly's ;tWo intercep- tions and sophomore defensive b~ck Eric Kopka'$ late inteirc~p­ tion provided the three turnovers that secured the defense's seven- · point ,game. Wimberly, who was named the ECAC and UCAA Rookie ofthe· Week, was modest about his touchdown off of 'l)urepo' s puntblock, his intercep- tions, and his nine solo tackles. \I would declicate the touchdown to Josh Dt~repo, who had the block. Coach always speaks· about tech- ,nique .. I used his word and worked on my technique. We have a whole lot ofleaders on our team. I try to learn from people like that.\ · Two other <members of the sec- . .~mdary ~elped hold the Yellowjackets to minimal yardage as junior Jim Rozakis had eight ·tackles and senior Lenny Mortimore added seven tackles. Both Mortimore and sophomore defensive back Joe Attanasio broke upthreepasses. Junior John Visconti rounded out the defensive stars with six tackles; two for losses. A Necessary Break This Saturday, Union gets their Qnly bye week of the season, but the break in action is anything. but a break as the Dutchmen face the RPI Engineers for the \Dutchmen Shoes\ next Both teams will be undefeated going .into the game as both do not play Saturday, and a further analysis ·.of the game will be in next week's Concordiensis. freshman Tom McKeown who starteq in place of Ryan Smith as quarterback at RPI. For the Engi- m~ers,. the scenario is familiar as the starting qilarterback for Union is in doubt, depend·ing on McKeown's injury. Also coincidental for the Dutch- men is Union's fifth victory last seas()n--a road game against a lo- cal undefeated team (Albany). G<tach John Audino was not happy with theabuq_dance ofpen- alties ( 12) by his team throughout and score.\ the Saturday's · game. \I was happy with the score, and I was happy with our effort. I feel we played foot- ball for four quarters. Ob- viously, we have· to take care of ·our penalties; We could have a big day in terms of yard .Union In The Polls Due to misinformation, the Di- vision HI East Region Poll is not available this week. Tile firstpoll will be released at 5 PM Monday, and it will be cov- ered ill depth in !lext week's fo~t­ ball article. Nationally; the Dutch- men moved from 12th to tenth in Don Hansen's Football Gazette Poll (three spots short of their best level in the last three years) and from 16th to 15th in the USA III Poll. Curt:ently, there are eight unde- feated teams in the east and ten one-loss teams. This means that · Union is not guaranteed a spot in the t()p four of tlie regional poll. However, Union is one oftbe higb- est-ra.Ilked eastern teams nation- ally. More will be known next week as the Dutchmen can sit back and watch Ithaca play Brockport in an · important match-op on the Empire Sports Network at 12:00 PM. ·B~;~~,~-.::· . , ~a>~ ,- .. > .. Compaet iiscs. TBf*i-·IlJ!tP Video Games • Martial, ·.:Movies Imports ··New. & Used Records 377·8382. website: bttp://www.capital~rtetlcomlcdcentrl 1549 Carrie St. (1 Bloc~ From Union College) Union College M11g Nites Tue, Wed, Thu & Sat 9pm-12am 22 oz. Drafts $1.50 (Bud, Bud Lite, Labatt's Blue & Honey Brown) · for $2.00 fill f()r $150

I ~' Penalty-Plagued Dutchmen Swat Yellow Jackets QB Tom McKewon Hurt Two Weeks Before RPI Showdown by Frank Rossf Editor-in-Chief The Union College Fighting Dutchmen could sure use the day off this coming Saturday. That is because junior quarterback Tom McKeown injured his left leg last Saturday against the Rochester Yellowjackets on Homecoming and Parents' Weekend as Union won 35-7, moving the Dutchmen to 4-0. McKeown was optimistic about his return in the RPI game on Oc- tober 18. \It's just a sprained MCL. I'll be back for RPI, defi- nitely.\ However, McKeown, who was injured just before half- time after an incompletion, is still questionable for the RPI game. the Rochester garne started off on the wrong foot for ·the Yellowjackets, who lost 15 straight games coming into Satur- day (and six straight against Union), as freshman defensive back Josh Durepo blocked a punt, whiCh Devon Wimberly ran three yards into the endzone for Union's first touchdown. After trading punts, the Dutchmen took a 14-0 lead after a ten-play drive engi,.. neered by three passes completed by McKeown. The first two went to senior receiver Ryan Smith for a total of 52 yards, and the third went to senior running back Matt f<rvor after being .inter.cept(;ld by Wimberly for the second time. Union's 21-7 halftime lead was overshadowed by McKeown's in- jury. His Injury led the way for the entry _of freshman quarterback . Jeff Ferraro. Ferraro~ who threw a to_uchdown against WPI two ·. weeks earlier, bad only one pass~ ing opportunity in the entire sec- . ond half as Union frequently ran the ball and the clock. The Dutch .. · men· had 51-rushing yards in l3 · plays over six minutes to score for the fourth time on the afternoon. . The drive was kept alive hy an · unsportsmanlike conduct call against a Rochester coach: just be- . fore Union's fourth-and-12 punt. The automatic first down eventu- ally led to a Fenaro toss to · Braunwart, giving Braunwart his second touchdown on the day. Union's defense shut down the Rochester offense for the remain- der of the game, and another ten .. _ll_un_n_i_ng=--ba_c_k_!f_Jo_e_L_a_te_l_la.....:,._~--~-~--'---=---=---~.:....,..__.:ag:::::.··a_.in_s_t~!!_'!...'h!.!:l.!_er--=-.---~-.:__ play Dutchmen drive, inCluding a Braunwart for tea yards and the an illegal block was called, nulli- Dennis Sanabia rushes and a Joe 24-yard.reverse by sophomorere- touchdown. fying the score. On Union's next Latella ten-yard run for a touch,. ceiver ldris Abdul-Aziz and Matt After jumping to the quick lead, drive, McKeown threw his frrst in- down with 5:38 remaining in the Braun wart's third touchdown, Union began to struggle offen- terceptionofthegame, whichwas first half. After the touchdown, gavetheDutchmena35-7victory. sively. A 13-yard Rochester punt cashed in for.a touchdown by Rochester drove down to Union's gave the Dutchmen. the ball at the Rochester two plays later. 19-yard line, where. Wimberly in- Yellowjacket 3 6, but a blocked Rochester had an opportunity to tercepted a pass in 'the ertdzone. Ben Blackwood fi~Id goal attempt tie the game, but poor field posi~ On the ensuing play, McKeown kept the score at 14-0. Two plays tion pinned them on their own end. threw his second inter~eption of earlier, McKeowt11lad run the ball Union regained the ball at the the afternoon, but Rochester's in for an apparent touchdown, but Yellowjacket 48, leading to two Aaron Sauro again returned the .. Offensive Stability The Rochester game marked the first game in some time that the Dutchmen scored nearly predomi- . . . . I continuedonpage 23 Controversial Loss Moves WomeD's .. S·occer to 6-2 Team Prepares to Take On N ationallj!-Ranked William Smith by Geoff Sullivan Sports Editor Coming off a l 0-0 victory over Utica, the Union College Women's Soccer team was ready to put their potent offense to the test this past weekend over arch rivals RPI and nationally ranked Skidmore. A weekend sweep would certainly put Union in the national.picture, but unfortunately for Union fans, that was not the case. Against a quick RPI squad, the Dutchwornen were able to hold onto an early lead and defeat the Engineers, 1-0. Junior Taryn Samol scored at around the half- way mark of the first half to give Union the lone goal of the game. Throughout the game, the Dutch women were able to control the tempo and used this advantage to contain the very pesky RPI of- fense. Once again, Union's de- fense played a strong game, in- cluding sophomore goalkeeper Shannon Powers, who recorded her sixth shutout of the season. Having momentum in their cor- ner, the Dutchwomen were ready to face off against then-ranked# 15 Skidmore the very next day. In front ofmany friends and family, · Sophomore Samantha Ryall attempting to score another goal for the Dutchwomen. (Laurie Kirschner!TC) the Dutchwomeodueled in a clas- Was short lived as Skidmore regulation, the score was tied at sic battle, but ullfortunatel)l came evened the score at one, ten min,. one. up on the short end of the stick, uteslater. Asthegamemovedinto The teams played two IS- losing to Skidmore, 2-1 in sudden the second half, both teams tried minute overtime periods, and at death overtime. to take advantage oftbe opponents the end of those, the score re- Freshrnan Missy Matusewicz mistakes, but very few could be mained the same. Nextcame sud- opened tile scoting ten minutes turned into points on the board. den~death overtime in which the into the game, !living Union the Both teams tried desperately to first team to score w~uld win the early 1-0lead. That lead, however; take the leacl, but at the end of game. About ten minutes into the , sudden death session, the Union defense knocked the ball out of bounds, giving Skidmore a comer kick. As the kick took place, the Skidmore offense rushed the goal, · trying to get in the way of Union goalkeeper Shannon Powers. In what possibly could have been called an obstruction, a Skidmore forward deflected the baiL into the net, giving Skidmore the 2-1 vic- tory. \We definitely dominated the game,\ said senior tri-captain Julie Barton. \Luck simply did not go our way.\ Head Coach Brian Sp~ck agreed saying, \we were the better team, and we showed it The score does not show how well we played.\ Even though the Dutchwomen did not attain the victory over SkidmQre, many positive signs were displayed. \I think the loss gave us confidence in knowing that .we can compete against na- tionally ranked teams;; said jun- ior Sarah Moss. If Moss is correct, the Dutchwomen will need that con~ fidence against another nationally ranked teatnj William Smith. The teatns do battle this Saturday a.t 2 PM inGeneva. At6-2,theteam is looking to rebound with. a quality win over another strong <>pportent on Saturday. !

Penalty-Plagued Dutchmen Swat Yellow Jackets QB To1u1t McKewo!ll ll1rtrt TnJo Week.~, BefiJre RPI Shotvdonyn by Fr:ank Rossi\ Editor-in-Chief The Union College Fighting Dutchmen could sure use the day off this coming Saturday. That is because junior quarterback Tom McKeown injured his left leg last Saturday against the Rochester Y ellowjackets on Homecoming and Parents' Weekend as Union won 35-7, moving the Dutchmen to 4-0. McKeown was optimistic about his return in the RPl game on Oc- tober 18. \It's just a sprained MCL. I 'II be back for RPI, defi- nitely.\ However, McKeown, who was injured just before half- time after an incompletion, is still questionable for the RPI game. The Rochester game started off on the wrong foot for the Yellowjackets, who lost 15 straight games coming into Satur- day (and six straight against Union), as freshman defensive back Josh Durepo blocked a punt, which Devon Wimberly ran three yards into the endzone for Union's first touchdown. After trading punts, the Dutchmen took a 14-0 lead after a ten-play drive engi- neered by three passes completed by McKeown. The first two went to senior receiver Ryan Smith for a total of 52 yards, and the third went to senior running back Matt Running backs Joe Latella (#2) and Matt.Braunwart (#33) cooperated often against Rochest/!r. (Rick Lederer/TC) Braunwart for ten yards an<! the an illegal block was called, milli- Dennis Sanabia rushes and a Joe touchdown. fying the score. On Union's next Latella ten-yard run for a touch- After jumping to the quick lead, drive, McKeown threw his first in- down with 5:38 remaining in the Union began to struggle () ffen- terception of the game, which was first half. After the touchdown, sively. A 13-yard Rochester punt cashed in for a touchdown by Rochester dro-ve down to Union's gave the Dutchmen the baJI2t the Rochester two plays later. 19-yard line, ...vhere Wimberly in- Yellowjacket 36, but a blocked Rochester had an opportunity to tercepted a pass in the endzone. Ben Blackwood field goal attempt tie the game, but poor field posi- On the ensuing play, McKeown kept the score at 14-0. Two plays tion pinned them on their own end. threw his sec<Jnd interception of ear Her, McKeown had run th.e ball Union regained the ball at the the afternoon, but Rochester's in for an apparent touchdoVIn, but Yellowjacket 48, leading to two Aaron Sauro again returned the favor after being intercepted by Wimberly for the second time. Union's 21-7 halftime lead was overshadowed by McKeown's in- jHry. His injury led the way for the entry offreslunan quarterback Jeff Ferraro. FetTaro, who threw a touchdown against WPI two weeks earlier, had only one pass- ing opportunity in the entire sec- ond half as Union frequently ran the ball and the clock. The Dutch- men had 51-rushing yards in 13 plays over six minutes to score for the fourth time on the afternoon. The drive was kept alive by an unsportsmanlike conduct call against a Rochester coach just be- fore Union's fourth-and-12 punt. The automatic first down eventu- ally Jed to a Ferraro toss to Braunwart, giving Braunwart his second touchdown on the day. Union's defense shut down the Rochester offense for the remain- der of the game, and another ten- play Dutchmen drive, including a 24-yard reverse by sophomore re- ceiver ldris Abdul-Aziz and Matt Braun wart's third touchdown, gave the Dutchmen a 35-7 victory. Offensive Stability The Rochester game marked the first game in some time that the Dutchmen scored nearly predomi- continued on page 23 Controversial Loss Moves Women's Soccer to 6-2 Team Prepares to Take On Nationally-Ranked William Smith by Geoff Sullivan Sports Editor Coming off a I 0-0 victory over liti\:a, the Union College Women's Soccer team was ready to put their potent offense to the test this past weekend over arch rivals RPI and nationally ranked SkiJmorc. A weekend sweep \\ ould certainly put lJnion in the national picture, but unfortunately for t 'nion f;-Jno;;, that was not the \::';lill\1 :1 quick RPI ~C]ll:lO. the Dutdl\\ 1Hlll'll were :1hle to hold unto an early lead and defeat the l'ngincn~. 1-0. Junior Taryn S:1111Pl '-.CPrL·tl at around the half- '.\.1) m:uk nfthe fir~thalftogive l'nilln the !nne go:1l of the game. Throughout the game. the Dutc h11 PlllL\II 1\ L\TL' .1hle to contrnl :l,c klllJ'I' .111d ll'>nlthi· .. 1d\ ant;I~L' to ..:ontain tht.: very pesky RPI of- fense. Once again, Union's de- fense played a strong game, in- cluding sophomore goalkeeper Shannon Powers, who recorded her sixth shutout of the season. Having momentum in their cor- ner, the Dutchwomen were ready to face off against then-ranked # 15 Skidmore the very next day. In front of many friends and family, Sophomore Samantha Irya/l attempting to score another goa/for the Dutchwomen. (Laurie Kirsch11er/TC) the Dutchwomendueled in a clas- was short lived as Skidmore regulation, the score was tied at sic battle, but unfortunately came up on the short end of the stick, losing to Skidmore, 2-1 in sudden death overtime. Freshman Missy Matu sewicz opened the scoring ten minutes into the game, giving Union the early 1-0 lead. That lead, however, evened the score at one, ten min- utes later. As the game moved into the second half, both teams tried to take advantage of the opponents mistakes, but very few could be turned into points on the board. Both teams tried desperately to take the lead, but at the end of one. The teams played two IS- minute overtime periods, and at the end of those, the score re- mained the same. Next came sud- den-death ()Vertime in which the first team tD score would win the game. About ten minutes into the sudden death session, the Union defense knoclced the ball out of bounds, giving Skidmore a comer kick. As the kick took place, the Skidmore offense rushed the goal, trying to get in the way of Union goalkeeper Shannon Powers. In what possib1y could have been called an obstruction, a Skidmore forward deflected the ball into the net, giving Skidmore the 2-1 vic- tory. \We definitely dominated the game,\ said senior tri-captain Julie Barton. \Luck simply did not go our way.\ I lead Coach Rrian Speck agreed saying. \we were the bdkr kam. and we showed it The s..:on.: Joe~ nut ~how how well we played.\ Even though the Dutchwomen did not attain the victory ovrr Skidml)rC, many ro~iti\\C' ~igns \Verc displayed. \I think the loss gave us confidence in knowing that we Llll compdc again~t na- tional!) ranh·d IL-arm.·· \aid jun- ior Sarah Moss. If Moss is correct, the Dutchwomen will need that con- fidence against another nationally ranked team, William Smith. The teams do battle this Saturday at 2 PM in Geneva. At 6-2, the team is looking to rebound with a quality win over an0ther strong opponent on Saturday.

1 f r \ \ I, 11 ll n e e :- d n Jt .n le 1e •e !TI ~r lS ss lg a- n- 1e n- ly he :2 is ity :nt ! • lS T/:Je, Student Newspaper of Unlon .. Colfege Since 1877 Volume{'XXVJLNumb~rV , Schenect<Jdy;NcvrYotk- _· ·. \- ·. . ._ ·.·GctoberH)~:-199~'- . ' . . . . . ' . . . . ' . 'i. Bottoms Up! Do We Party Too Much? ' . \ . by Mike DeMicco & never suffer from these conse- Audrea Schulman quences. Staff Writers We are not saying that alcohol should be banned, but it does need Here in Union land, we take to be used in a responsible man- much for granted. We live in a ner. This is where we as students microcosm that separates. us fr.om needto take a stand. The college the rest of the world. ln fact, we administration, as we have seen in are n0 different from other small Dean Alford's letter, has the abil- northeastern schools. This seems ity to do a lot of things to correct to hinder us when reality comes • this problem, hut many of them crashing clown on us. Which real- cannot be done without our help. ity has hit us this term? Without us standing together as h is the reality of Alcohol Poi- responsible adults, who is to say soning. Lately we have been in- that what happened at MIT won't undated by the media with stories happen to us? of students \dying from fraternity Picture this: you've just got done negligence.\ This gives people the with midterms, you think you have impression thatalc.ohQl poisoning aced aU ofthem, and mostly it was is solely linked to fr&ternal activ- because you stayed in all week and ity.- This may be the case .in these worked harder than you ever have. publicized incidents, but the prob. Friday night has come almost too lem goes much deeper than frater- late, and you want to go out. Your nities. - \· one goal--to get wasted! You Her.e at Union,.we have-:had no don't care where, you just want to death~ thank God, but in the five let loose. So, you do. You start weeks that we have been here, off the night with your friends. there have been six people hospi- Jt is probably only 9;30, and the talized and countless others who night is still young. You stay in have refused medical assistance your building for two hours or so, from the paramedics. bouncing from friend's room to To many that have been here. for ,friend's room, drinking the whole several years, this seems all too way. It gets later and later, so you familiar. To many outsidethe col.. and your friendsdecideto venture legiate environment, this is not a· out around the campus to top off reality; it is a travesty. In fact, this the night. However, by this time, is a serious issue that in the past come everyday motor skills have been has not been fully addressed but · : (Dave Meguerdichianl TC) eradicated. You don't have a buzz. today must be completely exam- ment for these instances to occur. wise. Alcohol is just as danger- You are drunk! The night goes on, inec1. Never in our lives did we ever ousasanynarcoticandcreatesjust butsomewhere(it'sallablur)your Those Who had to go to the hos- experience such a dangerous situ- ~s many detrimental side affects-- memory stops. pita! were fortunate enough to aticm. We were always warned overdose, addiction, and eventual That might be the end of the come back from the hospital. AI- aboutmarijuanaandother\drugs.\ death. It does not get the respect night for you, but for others it is coho I poisoning has been around Why was alcohol always sepa.- that it truly deserves. The one dif- just beginning. Let's say that you since the creation of alcohol, and rated? Our society always puts ference between these two is that were fortunate enough to have unfortunately, universitiesandcol- alcoholinitsowncategory,yetour alcohol has the ability to be used passedoutnearyourroom. Some- nr.,•cPt~t the environ- medical officials tell us .other- in such a that le will Continued on page 5 ~~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~_,~~~~~~~~~~------------~ Fiji Builds a Park by Anjali Balasingban Staff Writer The Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji) fra- ternity has started up a weekly day- camp for kids at Schenectady's South Avenue Park. The so-called \South Park Saturdays\ program is representative of an increasing campus-wide effort to unite Union with the surrounding community. Fiji is maintaining the park and supervising it every Saturday from II AM to l PM, so that children can play there safely. and decided to make sort of a day- camp for a couple hours each week,\ he said. \About 20 to 25 kids showed up [last week]. We brought doughnuts and juice for them. Itwasgreat. WepJayedfoot- ball, basketball, even foursquare . . . , We're planning a·basketball tournament for an age groups, so everyone can get involved.\ The Class of2001 started clean- ·ing up the park during Freshman - Orientation, and as Houle said, . . ' \We [Fiji] decided to catry it on a little further.\ According to -Ed Dombroski of Fiji, \The park has been pretty desolate for the past 20 or so years, but now it_'s really come to life.\ Dombroski and Traffic! Neha Shah Sttiff Writer and Nick P'apanickolas Stl!{fWriter October 13, 1997 was prospec- tive student\> day at Union Col- lege. The arrival of approximately 160 students for this event caused many people to express concern about the availability of parking on Union's campus, especially due to the massive construction being done to the Shaffer Library and the F.W. Olin BttHding. Fortunately, this event proceeded without any traffic problems. There are approximately 1050- 1100 parking_ spaces available on Union's grounds. Included in these parking spaces are desig- nated student, faculty/staff, and visitor parking areas. On any given day, approximately 500 fac- ulty and staff., in addition to more than 750 students, are parked on or around campus. For the two to three timesayearthat Union hosts major recruiting days, Campus Se- . curity reserves specific faculty/ staff parking lots for our guests. Admissions and security notify faculty/staff via voice mail and the Chronicle as to when these days occur so that people are prepared to handle the parking situation. Security barricades these reserved lots the eveni.ng before and opens them for the guests once they ar- . rive, usually between eight and ten in the morning. Three extra offic- ers are assigned to traffic detail during thesedays and manage the flow of traffic during the day. Since construction has begun, Continued on page 4 Accorc1ing to Eric Houle, Presi- dent of Fiji, \South Park Satur~ days\ in-volves much rno_re than passive upkeep of the park. Rather, the brothers interact with the kids in a variety of cooperative activi- ties. \We came together as ,house . Houle both emphasized the fact that the project was a house-wide . Continue(/ on page 3 South Avenue Park is soon to renovated by FIJI. (Dave Meguerdichian I The Co11cordiensis) . INSIDE: Campus News~ ........................ -........•... 2 Op-ed .................................................. 8 Features ........................................... 12 Science&Technology ....................... 14 Arts & Entertainment ............................. I 7 Sports ..................................................... 24 News .................... , ................................... 3

l f 1 1 e e d n lt n (' c n ~r \<; ;s 1- \. Je 11- ly 1C 2 IS ty nt Page 4 Bottoms Up! Do We Party Too Much? by Mike DeMicco & Andrea Schulman Staff Writers Here in Union land, we take much for granted. We live in a microcosm that separates us from the rest of the world. In fact, we are no different from other small northeastern schools. This seems to hinder us when reality comes crashing down on us. Which real- ity has hit us this term? It is the reality of Alcohol Poi- soning. Lately we have been in- undated by the media with stories of students \dying from fraternity negligence.\ This gives people the impression that alcohol poisoning is solely linked to fraternal activ- ity. This may be the case in these publicized incidents, but the prob- lem goes much deeper than frater- nities. Here at Union, we have had no death, thank God, but in the five weeks that we have been here, there have been six people hospi- talized and countless others who have refused medical assistance from the paramedics. To many that have been here for several years, this seems all too familiar. To many outside the col- legiate environment, this is not a reality; it is a travesty. In fact, this is a serious issue that in the past has not been fully addressed but today must be completely exam- ined. Those who had to go to the hos- pital were fortunate enough to come back from the hospital. Al- cohol poisoning has been around since the creation of alcohol, and unfortunately, universities and col- nr••<\\'\' the erfect environ- come to attention here at Union. (Dave M eguerdichianl TC) ment for these instances to occur. wise. Alcohol is just as danger- Never in our lives did we ever ous as any narcotic and creates just experience such a dangerous situ- as many detrimental side affects-- ation. We were always warned overdose, addiction, and eventual about marijuana and other \drugs.\ death. It does not get the respect Why was alcohol always sepa- that it truly deserves. The one dif- rated? Our society always puts ference between these two is that alcohol in its own category, ye.t our alcohol has the ability to be used medical officials tell us other- in such a w that Ie will Fiji Builds a Park by Anjali Balasinghan Staff Writer The Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji) fra- h.:rnit} has started up a\\ t.:t:kl) da}- camp for kids at Schencctad} '::, South Avenue Park. The so-called \South Park Saturdays\ program is representative of an increasing campus-wide effort to unite Union >\ ith the surrounding commun it}. Fiji is maintaining the park and supervising it every Saturday from II AM to I PM, so that children can pia) there saki). and decided to make sort of a day- camp for a couple hours each week,\ he said. \About 20 to 25 kids showed up [last week]. We brought doughnuts and ju icc for tht:m.It was great. We played foot- ball, basketball, even foursquare . ... We're planning a· basketball tournament for all age groups, so everyone can get involved.\ The Class of~OO 1 started clean- ing up the park during Freshman Orientation, and as Houle said, \We [fiji] deciJcd to carry ito~ a little further.·· According to .f:d Dombroski ofFiji, \The park has been pretty desolate for the past 20 or so years, but now it's really come to life.\ Dombroski and Houle both emphasized the fact that the project was a house-wide never suffer from these conse- quences. We ue not saying that alcohol should be banned, but it does need to be used in a responsible man- ner. This is where we as students need to take a stand. The college administration, as we have seen in Dean Alford's letter, has the abil- ity to do a lot of things to correct this problem, but many of them cannot be done without our help. Without us standing together as responsible adults, \vho is to sa} that wllat happened at MIT \Von't happen to us'? Pictu n.: this: you've just got done with midterms. youth ink you have aced all of them and must!\ it was ' . becal!sc you stayed in all week and work<.!d harder than you ever have. Frida) night has come almmt too late, ctnd you want to go out. Your one goal--to get wasted! You don't care where, you just want to let lo<lse. So, you do. You start off tile night with your friends. It is probably only 9:30, and the nig'l1t is still young. You stay in your building for two hours or so, bouncing from friend's room to friend's room, drinking the whole way. It gets later and later, so you and your friends decide to venture out around the campus to top off the night. However, by this time, everyday motor skills have been eradicated. You don't have a buzz. You are drunk! The night goes on, but somewhere (it's all a blur) your mem<lry stops. That might be the end of the night for you, but for others it is just beginning. Let's say that you were fortunate enough to have passed out near your room. Some- Continued on page 5 Traffic! Neha Shah Staff Writer and Nick Papanickolas Staff Writer October I 3, I 997 was prospec- tive student's day at Union Col- lege. The aJTival of approximate!) I 60 students for this event caus~.?d many people to e.xpres~ concern about the a\ ailabi Iity of parking on Union's campus, espcciali: due to the massive construction being done to the Shaffer l.ihrar) and th~.· F.W. Olin Building.. Fortunate!:. this t:vcnt pnH:eet.h:d \\ ithuut ,!11) traffic prnhlems. Tht:r~.? are apprux im~1td: I 0\ 0 I I 00 parking spaces ;n ai Ia \lie on Union's grounds. Included in these parking spaces art.: desig- nated student, faculty/staff. and visitor parking areas. On any given day, approximately 500 fac- ulty and staff, in addition to more than 750 students. are parked on or around campus. For the two to three times a year that Union hosts major recruiting days, Campus Se- curity reserves specific faculty/ staff parking lots for our guests. Admissions and security notify faculty/staffvia voice mail and the Chronicle as to when these days occur so that people are prepared to handle the parking situation. Security barricades these reserved lots the evening before and opens them for the guests once they ar- rive, usual Iy between eight and ten in the morning. Three extra offic- ers are assigned to traffic detail during these days and ma-nage the flow of traffic during the day. Since construction has begun, Continued on page 4 According to Eric Houle, Presi- dent of Fiji, \South Park Satur~ days\ involves much more than passive upkeep of the park. Rather, the brothers interact with the kids in a variety of cooperative activi- ties. \We came together as a house Contillued on page 3 South Avenue Park is soon to rentJ\:1ated by FIJI. (Dave Meguerdichianl The Cmzcordie1rsi.'!) ·INSIJJ/E·: Op-ed ................................................. 8 Features ................................. ,_,_ .... 12 Science& Technology ....................... 14 Arts & Entertainment .......... .............. r Sports........ ........ ....... ... ... . .. .. .. . N Campus News ................................... 2 News ................................................. 3

I> age 2 • . <;>ctober 16, 1997 • ·m:11c oioncornit•ttsis · :,.. . \ Campus Ncv\·~ Campus·Security Info UNION COLLEGE CAM.PUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCJDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1997 THROUGH.SUNDA Y, OCTOBER 12, 1997 DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1997: 6:55AM CampusOper. Let 9:39AM Richmond area 11 :48AMNew Entry Road I :20 PM Lenox Rd TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1997: 3:40AM Fero House 9:30AM Fieldhouse INClDENT VANDALISM: Staff member's car damaged. Paint \keyed\, Occurred on..Sat. l0/4/97. ASSAULT: Student was struck in face by passer-by who was on a bike. Student received facial bruise from what may have been a broken bottle. Suspect rode off campus laughing following incident. Incident occurred previous evening not reported at time of occurrence. TRESPASS: Visitor loitering around campus with no stated purpose. Identified and advised off campus. HARASSMENT: Staff member walking alone on Lenox Road Was subjected to verbal harassment by passer.,by riding a bike: Area checked suspect not located. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: M~ilbox tipped over. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY/THEFT: Interior of Fieldhouse found in disarray-equipment thrown all around. Door to equipment room tampered with .raising it several inches. Some equipment items w<ithin reach ·of locked door were stolen 4:04 PM Reamer Center FIRE: Minor fire in trash container outside Qf building. Fire extinq).lished-no damage or injury. 4:13PM Schaffer Library TRESPASS: Visitor soliciting money from passers~ by. Subject uncooperative fled campus. SJ>D contacted for assist. Subject located and arrested. 5:15PM Hickok House SECURITY HAZARD: Parent called to express concern regarding security issues in residence hall. Report of possible unauthorized entry into student rooms. Determined that there was no unauthorized entry. Two rooms had been entered by campus safety personnel in early AM hours when windows in unoccupied rooms on first floor Were found to have been left opened and accessible. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1997: 12:37 AMWade Lupe NOISE COMPLAINT: Reportofaloudparty. Unable to confirm. Area w~ quiet on arrival. 9:53AM S&E S-211 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Staffmemberreported possible chemical exposure, Minor illness not · requiring medical treatment. Situation under review. 2: I 5 PM Residence Hall HARASSMENT: Student receiving unwanted communication. 4:35PM S&E Nll4 PROPERTY DAMAGE: Window broken .. cause 8:00PM Nott St. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1997: l2:45AMAlumni Gym Lot 3:14AM Silliman Hall 2:20PM S&E 10:22PM South College II :04PM Alexander Lane FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1997: I 2:25PM Admi11istration Lot 4:30 PM South Terrace Lane II :02PM Reamer Center II :07PM 9ff Campus SATURDAY, OCTOBER 11,1997: 2:25 PM Fox/Davidson Lot 3:05 PM Davidson 6: 12 PM Bai.ley Field 11 :22PM South College SUNDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1997: 1 :43 AM Resiclence Hall 4:40PM Achilles Lot 9:55PM Hickok House udetermined. THEFT: Student left b!lckpack hidden in bushes upon student's return the backpack was missing. VANDALISM: Student's motorcycle knocked over causing damage to mirror and paint.. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Students attempted to enter Health Services window. Conduct\Charges filed. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Report of unknown person loitering in the building. Building checked subject gone from area. VANDALISM: Courtesy telephone damaged. SUSPJCIOUS PERSON: Visitor found laying in roadway. Subject was uncooperative then fled campus. VANDALISM: Staff member's car splattered with soup. TRESF'ASS: Two juveniles, previously advised off campus, were skateboarding ... when approached they fled campus. VANDALISM: 4th floor wall damaged. Two suspects reportedly fled after causing the damage. DISORDERLY CONDUCT/FALSE ID: SPD reports student involved irt creating a disturbance in local convenience store. False ID presented to SPD for identification. Student turned over to custody of campus safety. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM: Visitor's car damaged. Mirror and wiper removed. Occurred overnight while car Was parked. VANDALISM: Light globe in Jst floor north bathroom damaged. TRESPASS: Group of juveniles climbing upon goalpost. Identified and advised off campus. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Fire extinquisher discharged in student's room cau~ingsmoke detector to activate~. Life Safety Violation Notic~ filed. HARASSMENT: Two students being subjected to persistent unwanted arid threatening calls. V ANDALJSM: Staff member's car damaged. Paint \keyed\ in several plaGes. TRESPASS/SECURITY HAZARD: Student reported that several males students climbed through wLndow into the residence. Incident allegedly occurred ov~rnight but was not reported at time. No untoward incident reported as result <>f the trespass. . ' This Week'·s Campus Announcements. · CJ•amber Music Festival Union College is host to the first concert of the inaugural tour of the Spoleto USA Festh~al featuring artistic director Charles Wadsworth and violinist Chee-Yun on Friday, Oc- tober 17 and 8 PM in Union's Memorial Chapel. Each Union student receives two free tickets: see Sylvia Nozriy in Cen- tral Sclieduling in the Rea.rner Campus Center. AntltropQlogist Rldi.atd Nelson to $peak at Union Anthropologist and nature writer Richard Nelson wi'l1 give a talk titled ''Deer in Mo4ern Aruerica: An Ecology ofHeart and Blood\ on Wednesday, October 22 in Union College's Reamer Campus Center Auditorium at4 PM. Nelson's talk will be based on his book Heart and Bf.()od: Living with Deer in America. P/filosopllet and SQcial Thinker Jurgen Habennas Jurgen Habermas, one of the greatest social thinkers, will give a speech titled \~Learning From Catastrophes?-· . A Brief Look Back at the Short ·Twentieth Centwy\ on Thursday, October 16 in Union College '.s Nott Memorial at 7:3:0 PM. Habennas, who has refashioned thinking about technology and culture, politics and postmodernism, and law and de- mocracy will examiue controversies and challenges of the twentieth century. Katha Pollitt, feminist author, poet, and columnist for The Nation will give a talktitled \Why I Hate Family Values\ on Monday, October27 in Union College's Nott Memorial at 7:30PM; Areceptio~, sponsored by the Women's Com- mission of Union. College, will be held in Old Chapel im~ mediately foUowipg the talk. I I· j; I I ~H fi I I • I j - - So< amim vert is dividi 91h, ll pr~se1 searcl relati~ of in< they: prodt Hi! de fin tailor the s their they time. Lo the c selve sics~ Preff thedi ing o De COVel as soc mud self-r moni ·base' man< DeB1 very one! B~ evah told ther Fran Kam siste --- Fe past the 1 for 1 Frisl host TOUI Tl new pec1 plan amb mm serv com spot func T1 alii• The tour rais~ T gav garr T recc day wer Psi 1 2:3~

I I· I; I .' Ne\'\'S · . · <III1r lConrorOil'nsis • October 16, 1997 • Page_ 3 High and Low Self Monitors D,if[erential Attention in Advertisments Other Cultures Help Union by Aileen Quigley . Editor .. in-C!Iiiif Social .psychologists have ex• amined what exactly makes an ad- vertisement appeal Jo certain in- dividuals. On Thursday, October 9th, 1997 Professor Ken DeBono presented some of his -dramatic re .. searcb that demonstrated a strong relationsliip between certain types of individuals and the details that they attend to when evaluating a product. High self-monitors (HSM) are defined .as those individuals who tailor their behavior according to the situation at hand, curtailing their words and actions to what they believe is acceptable at the time. Low self-monitors {LSM), on the other hand, conduct them- selves based on their own intrin- sic system of values and morals. Prof. Ken DeBono addresses the psychology of adevertisement. Professor DeBono has researched (Dave Meguerdichian I The Concordiensis) the differential effects of advertis- -c-=-h-e-es_e __ · --po..,..o_r..,.ly-.,--.-re_g __ a .... rd~l:-_e-ss..__o~f-:-i:-ts--a ... nd\\\· '\\'o,..e\\\B __ -u--se-d.,.. ..... c.,..h_o_co\\'l,...a .... te ......... to ing on these two groups. supposed origin. The HSM conductasimilarstudy. They .pre- DeBono and his colleagues dis- groups, however, claimed the sented samples of chocolate to covered that the intri[)sic qualities cheeses from \France\ were bet- their subjects and a picture of it in associated with a product make. ter, ignoringthe taste. Cle~rly, the a cosmetically-altered ad. When much more of an impact on low ex~rinsic component of France's asked to choose which of the self-monitors, whereas a high self- cheese reptttation took precedence chocolate samples they preferred, monitor would evaluate a product in the HSM's perceptions of im- HSM picked the chocolate that ·based on the quality <Jf its perfor- age.. corresponded with the ad contain- mance. In a study by Rubin and In a sub-sequent study, Amy ing the more attractive DeBono, subjects. were given one L¢avitt, Jennifer. Backus, and spokesmodel. very good sample of cheese and DeBono found that HSM evalu- After his lecture,,DeBono pre- one bad-tasting sample. atedperfume samples more favor- sented a significant statistic: Before they were asked to ably when they were placed in at- roughly 40% of college-aged evaluate their flavor, they were tractive bottles. people are LSM. told that the sample had been ei- LSM were- more consistent in That leaves 60% as H SM. ther imported from Strasbourg, their ratings: they based their Though advertisers could use this France, or shipped from Mulberry, judgement ,on how good they information to their advantage, Kansas. The groups of LSM con- thought the p~rfume ~me lied. students still have the opportunity sistently rated the bad-tasting Ainsley Foster, Dennis Ruggeri, to use it to theirs. by Usa Pertoso Staff Writer Union's term abroad programs give students opportunities to trave·l to· -different countries around the world to learn, to · stud~,and.in hopesta understand and become more sensitive to · other cultures and ways of life. One popular term a:broad offered- in winter through the anthropol- agy department is the Barbados . term, run by Professor George Gmelch, department chair of an- thropology, and Professor Sharon , Bohn Gmelch, professor of an- thropology and director of women's studies. The program, open to students of aU majors, was created with the intent to use analys·is skills and field research to study the Barba- dian, customs and ways oflife, As Union students are immediately submerged into a culture unlike their own, difficulties often sur,.. face. Students who study abroad find that cultural traditions some- times can create adjustment prob- lems. Suchhardships and feelings of the students who studied in Barbados are captured in the book \The Parish Behind God's Back\ written by the Gmelches. They • dedicated the appendix to com- mon problems Union students ex .. perienced while adjusting to Bar- badian culture. Union students are assigned to host families and immediately re- alize differences between Ameri- . can and Barbadian culture. The students live in a small, rural com- munity of St. Lucy. where living off the land and being close to na- Ultimate Frisbee Tournament Ch~llenges DY Sloane E. Miller Staff Writer For those of us who spent this past holiday weekend on campus, the weather was .perfectly suited for a little \'Bee The Ultimate Frisbee Club of Union College hosted its first Ultimate Frisbee Tournament. The Ultimate Fri~bee Club is a newly-formed club with high ex- pectations. Captain Mik¥ lger plans to follow through with these ambitions, but financial needs must be met. The tournament served two purposes--to provide a comfortable environment for the sport and to increase the club's funds. Teams signed up for a $25 fee, all last week in the campus center. The award forthecllampion ofthe tournament was half of the money raised. The seven participating teams gave it their all ill five-on~five games Saturday aftemoon._ The four teams with the best records entered the semiftnals Sun- day afternoon. The leading teams were AD, Jack Nasty~ Lodge, and Psi U. • The semifinals began Sunday at 2:30. Psi U played Lodg~, and AD Otie of many players in the recent Ultitn(lte Frisbee rournt~ment goes all out for tile disc. (Sloa11e Miller I TC . . . . played Jack Nasty. AU four teams intense game. Late Sunday after- Ultimate Frisbee Club said. played well~ but at the end of two noon, Psi U left the field tired, The holiday weekend p.layed a 15- minute halves the finalists sweaty, and $87 richer, having large role on the numberofteams . were AD and Psi U. After two bru- played a great tournament. who signed up. The seven-team tal halves of play, Psi U was de- \I was very surprised and ex- turnout means that, even with a de- clared the victor. cited by the large turnout. I didn't creased population, Union College They won the Fall 1997 Ulti- expect as much participation, but is interested in playing the sport. mateFrisbeeTournamentbybeat- the result is inspiring,\ Captain The club hopes to hold another ing AD 1 ()-7. It was a close and Mike Iger of the Union College tournament in the spring. · ture is commonplace. Initially, students feel boredom, finding it difficult to occupy their free time without the typical modem conve- niences such as TV and radio. Another issue that students deal with is that of race .. For the first time for many white students, in Barbados, they are the radal mi- nority a.nd are often singled out of a crowd. Yet, as time passes and students develop friendships with the villagers, these feelings of cul- tural differences subside. The most important revelation emphasized by the Gmelches that the students carry home with them is the realiza.tion that American culture is based heavily on mate- rialistic values. After ten weeks oft.iving and contributing in a Bar- badian community, where posses- sions are only used as survival tools, the students begin to change their attitudes towards their own living habits. The Union students then find the need to readjust to American culture upon their re- turn. Some view their friends as materialistic and recall themselves acting similarly. Students who travel abroad usually cannot come back unaffected or unchanged by their experiences, and the Barba- dosterm is no exception. The pur- pose of the Barbados term has suc- cessfully provided students with insights into Barbadian values and traditions, which naturally r.eshape attitudes about their own culture. In regard to the students' experi- ences in Barbados, the Gmelches write, \For [the students], getting to know another culture is to look in a mirror and catch a glimpse of themselves, as culturarbeings, of who they are as Americans.\ FIJI Continued enterprise. All the brothers ofFUi participate alternately in the project, with six to ten of them vis- iting the park each Weekend. \Our first week was incredible: the tum- out was great, both in tenns of the · number of kids who showed up and the number of brothers who wanted to be involved,\ said Dombroski. \The kids who came ran home and brought their friends with them; and when one o'clock came around, nobody wanted to leave .... The first week really surpassed our expectations, so I can only imagine what the [results] will be once the program gets roll- ing.\ Initially, the proposed plan was to have this program throughout the fall and spring tenns. However, Houle says that the response from the kids who have attended has been so enthusiastic that Fiji is considering sustaining it during . the winter term as well. As for its success thus far, the benefits seem to be mutual. \lt was a lot of fun,\ said Houle. \I felt good about it .. and the kids. had a really good time. It gives them something new to do.\ Dombroski agreed, saying, \We had as good a time as the kids did.\ ..

Freshman Elections: First Floor Reamer Center This Friday 10 a.m.- 4 p·.m. ••••••••• , t •• , ••••• •••••• • ~fAKE GREAT CHRISTMAS$ IN CT.! . . . . . • IF YOU CAN BEGIN WORK THE FIRST \YEEK : OFDEC.OREARLIER,AWAIIDWINNING ! RETAILSHOPINNEW CANAANCTISNOW • ACCEI,TING XMAS SALES HELP APPIJCA· • • TI ONS. $8/HR, 40, HR 'VEEK. PLEASE CALL • : . RAY FOR MORE INFO @ PENNYWEIGHTS : JE\VELRY GlFr STORE. (203) 966·7739 t • SECURE YOUR JOB TODAY Traffic Continued from page 1 Alexander Lane (the roadway be- tween Bailey and Butter·field Halls and the football field) has been opened to public use from 7am to 5pm to alleviate traffic flow in anq around the science and engineer- ing and campus operations build,.. ings. It is also a convenience for the general public to be able to ddve from one side of campus t0 the other without having to leave the Union gates. On a typical .8 hour patrol, se- .cuiity travels around the patking areas between 5-6 or more times a shift. Security !lhi<ies by the poJicy of pretecting Union stu:- dents, faculty, and staff .first and property second; FQr this reas._on on weekday ev~nings; Union adds one extra officer to proactively ensure the safety of the commu,. nity by hav.ing a visible security presence on campus in order to deter any crime and untoward be- havior. On Thursdays, Fridays, and Saturdays security adds two officers to this patro'l in the eve- nings. ln case of theft or vandalism, Union security will contact the Schene.ctad:Y Poqce Department. Most of the time, however, there is no evidence to the crime and nothing can be done. Neverthe- less, in instances where there is a 'M'itness or evidence security has appFehended individuals. . _ lf there happens to be a high ()Ccurrence of crime in a particu- lar area, Union security will assign :S\!rveillance to the area and will ~lso work with the local police to IeSo}ve the issue. Note, however, that Union College does not hold ;themselves to be responsible for ..any theft and/or vandalism to prop- -erty. The individuals and their in- surance· companies musl handle 11te. situation on their own. C<mtrary to popular belief, tick- -ets and theirpayment are dealt with in a serious manner. If a student does not. paytheir tickets their stu- dent acceun.t i.s assessed the amount to be paid, and all accounts n1ust be settled prior to graduation. Facuity and staff, on the other hand, receive payroli deductions for unpaid tickets. There are ap• proximately 400:0 - 500Q tickets given out per year mostly due to .improper parking in fire lanes and designated lots; and on roadways and grass. The main concern to security in the.se matters is 'the blocking of · roadways and fire lane in case -of em(?rgency situatiQnS where emer- gency vehicles need to g,et through. For the amount ofstudents and faculty who are registered on cam- pus, :there are enough parking spaces to accommodate virtually everyone. However, ther.e may not be spaces within dose walking dis- tance to every building on campus for everyone's convenience. In respect to security in general, their efforts regarding traffic control _ seem to us to be more than ad- equate to deal with any problems that may arise; .CDC Updates (Cll UNfON COClEGE ••• · Olrttr Dr«l~t Cmter ...-· \; ' -wHAT IS APVERTISING ALl A80UTr Thursd~y, October 16 • Due to a scheduling conflict for our speaker, Ulis proaram will be rescheduled for a later date. \CRAP UATE SCHOOL AD MISSIO·NS\ Tuesday, October 21 at 7pm at the CDC ~ Faculty panel on prepara .. tion and admissions to graduate school INTERVIEWIN' WORKSHOP Wednesday, <ktober 22 at 7pm at tbe CDC - Prerequisite for Recruiting Contract and mock interviews for those who did not attend the Septen1ber progranl. ''LAW SCHOOL ADMISSIONS PROCESS\ Thursday, October 23 at 7pm at the· CDC ... Professor Weiner, the Law School Advisor. will discuss personal staternents for law school applications. KAP·LAN PRACTICE TISTS Saturday, October 25at lOam in SSI04- KAPLAN will be giving practice tests forthe GRE, LSAT, and GMAT. ON·CM\PUJ RECRUITIN' ADDITIONS U.S, Dept. of Energy will interview interested ME, CEt and Environ· mental Engineering B:S/MS students. Resume deadline is Oct. 24. Encotech bas positions for ME and CS majors graduating in Dec.l997. . Resume Deadline is Od. Z4. Descriptions are available at the CDC. • t ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ._ _____ illlllllllll __ ..,.. ________ llllllillllillnilllilllllli!ll!!illll!llllllll!ll ................. .... ! ! .\ j !~ I - si~ se1 Pll ef ev 51 > p'li be Sc: OF th Tl stl a su e\ th le. te th th pi

·, \. i. > I Campus ~c'~'S · 1.Tilpc' <!Jcinwrnirnsis • October 16, 1997 •.Page 5 . . ' ' . ' . . ' T'hrow a Pie· At a . . - - ' . ' Alcohol at Union Continued ..• Gamma Phi< body found you and put you in your bed, \on your side of course twenty sisters who volunteered to . because that is the way to stop any~ sit onch:airs in front of the college thing bad from happening,\ and center and a~ait their fate. · left you with your roommate. you know what is l1appen4tg after that step. - might take some alcohol out of your stomach, but it will do noth- ing if you already have enough in your blood to give you poisoning, Letting someone sleep is the most dangerous. You leave them alone. If they run into problems, do you know what to do7 Call Campus Safety? Well, yes, but if your friend is really suffering, Campus Safety may come too late. lf you suspect that your friend might have alcohol poisoning, get help imme- diately. by Emily Simop Contributing Writer and Amy DiBattista Executive Editor On Wednesday; October 8th., tile sisters of Gamma Phi Beta pte• sented \Thr:ow a Pie at a Gamo:ut Phi,\ a philanthropy event tof)e)t- efit cerebral palsy :research. Tile event, which lasted fro11;1 4 PM t(), 5 PM in front ofthe Reamer Cam- . .· . ' .· pus Center, rais!.':d about $150 to be donated to Cerebral Palsy of Schenectady and gave students an opportunity to take a break fr()lll their arduous midterm studying. The event was a huge success: tile student bo.dy andthe sister enjoyed a good laugh, and a subStaiitial sum of money was raised for ~n extremely worthy cause. Duting the week of the eve11t, the sisters set up a table in the col~ lege center and sold \pies\ to in- terested students. These pies 'Were their tickets; allowing· them to throw a pie, or in some cas~s 11 feW>~ , in the face .of one of the A ~:rowd gathert;:d early on the Somewhere in the evening, while 86da:y ofthe.event, and some stu,. · your roommate was letting you dentsweresoeager~ostartthefes• · \sleep it off,\ your breathing tivities that,they chased their vi~t stopped. Perhaps it was from be- tims, pie in hand. Students con- ing asphyxiated by your own tinu.ed to arrive during the hour in · vomit, or maybe you choked on which the event was held to make your tongue. Or, like the boy at a frie11d or acquaintance a little : MIT, you might have celebrated messy- . so mu4:h that your blood thickened, Not only did the student body · which in turn slowly deprived you show up for the event, but a three- . brain ()fox.ygen. So now you are year·-()ld boy decided to take a in acom.a, or maybe already dead. breal< from his roller-skating to The 11ext morning or afternoon, plant pies in three differ~nt sisters' your roommate wakes up and no- faces, When the event was. over,. tices that you are a little pale, a the sist~rs ofGanuna Phi, although · little C()ld-looking. On the attempt covered in de~sert, were proud of that your roommate makes to wake their accomplishment and happy you by a nudge, he or she notices to have donated their time to an that there is something not human important cause. about you. Jmmediately Campus SaidPhilanthropy Chairwoman Safety is notified. Now, I am sure .Your parents are at home or work, :rno;st likely wondering how your exams went. The pholle rings, and thinking of you, th~y answer it. Much to their dismay and s11rprise, it .is nt>t you. RatiJer it is Ellis hospital notifying them that you had passed away some- time early in the rn<Jriling. Your friends are thinking that they put you on your si(le. Everyone passes out. Hell, it happened to them last weekend, and you had helped them through it. Why did you die? The answer to this question is that of a~ute alcohol poisoning. We wantto end this article with a few facts that might help to curtail these terrible occ11rrences from happening. First of all, you can never just sleep it off. Vomiting is pretty ineffective as well. Ifyou are really drunk, tile alcohol is al- ready in your blood. Vomiting In the best case sc~nario, para- medics come and take your friend to see a doctor. They see the Dean, and you have saved his or her life. Maybe next time, he or she will be more consciO!lS of his or her intake. Sometimes the best lessons come from our biggest mistakes. Let's be safe, rather than sorry. You'll feel much better if you're overprotective than if you don't care enough. Emily Simon, \This was one of the most's.uccessful philanthropies we have had due to the involvement . of both the campus community and tne house.'' . She wishes to thaak all who participated for The Vie.w from the Tree Hause ·_ rromoting· Enuronmental Cot&ervation .nur ..... cr their care and EXTRA INCOM,E FOR '97 . .... ~ . . . -- . . - What is r~cycled paper, and htntJ is it different from non-recycled (virgin) paper? , Earn $500 - $lOOO,weekly stuffing envelopes. For details,. RUSH $1.00 - with SASE 1.0: ,GROUP I 8147 N Ac•d••r ll'fd.O.pt,N COI•ucto ••••\ co.-.10111 ( ~ UUIIiUtii~UIJI•I•tifl $7.99 ea. or ! · .......... : .......... $2,99 ea. or it CDs ...... ~. :~~·.~-$~ ea. or VIDEOS, ..... 2 for $10 We Have Current Vinyl LPs! Clifton ........ 1-46) Clifton P,ark, 18 '373-9089 Recycled paper comes frBm waste paper pulp instead of unused wood pulp. Re- cycled paper can often be equal in quality tu non-recycled paper. Often recycled ... ., .. ,..,.er is chosen over non-recycled paper bec4!:tuse it can be more opaque, dense, a·nd flexible. How does recycling paper benefit the environment? It takes 17 trees to produce one ton ()f paper~· It has been estimated that over 200 milliun trees are saved each year dlle to recyding. Paper products consume 35% of W()rld's annual wood harvest. This number is expeded to increase to 50% by the year 2000. Forest harvests exceeds replacement. Seventy-four percent less air p()llution .and 35°/o less water pollution is prodm!ed form the manufa-cturfng of recycled paper compared to tllat of noll-recycled paper. Amount of Solid Waste: America's third largest domestic expenditure is the disposal of solid waste. The US spends $6 billion annually to dispose of trash. Each day, enough trash is created to fill the New Orleans Superd()me twice. Half of that waste is paper! College Rep Wanted!!

Page 6 • October 1'6, 1997 • 'illlt~ Qt,.,n~uro!cusis. . · · · N'ltion~l News· . . . -National News The. Chelsea Chronicles 4, .. DaJ.clyS little sirl., ' \ \' ' -- . ' ... It looks as though Union is not the only school with substance abuse problems. In an interesting turn of event~, the Massachusetts Senate ·voted on Tuesday to prohibit alcohol from publically funded campuses. As o:f press time, the final vote was not announced. Jay Connelly's Continuing S.eries: ''Around the World'' by Jay Connelly Contributing Writer I hope you all enjoyed Colum- bus Day weekend. That is, if you even knew Monday was Columbus Da:y. I think it is safe to assume that m()st of you forgot. If this was an editorial, I could go into great de.- tail about how absurd it is that we do not get such holidays off. I could say how it is un fair to the students, professors, dining service employ- ees, secretaries, or anyone else. Likewise, I am sure that I could go to great lengths- to show the anal- ogy between Union not celebrating ColLtmbus Day and not being i.n tollch with the outside world. I could build an irrefutable argu- ment as to why Union's isolationist poticies are similar to the US poli- cies of the 1920s, which had causal effects leading up to the Great De- pression and World Wat II. AlaS; this is not an editorial. In honer of Christopher Columbus, who knew the importance of the wodd around him (if you steal other peoples. ticlles, you become rich), I take you around the globe. Now here's some news fromBos- ton: Bean Town had a fairly slow week news-wise. Two mass transit workers were caught stealing 85- · cent tokens from the department. Their total accumulated was $3,000. Divided evenly, that's a whopping $1,500 each. Wow! In 1984, roughly 30 workers were caught with a total of over a mil· lion dollars. Now, that's more like it. The moral of the story is that if you're going to rob the money train, do it in 1984. (Boston Globe) In news fi·om Washington, Presi- dent Clinton arrived in Venezuela to a warm greeting. Clinton stated that there is a \New World\ dawn- ing .in the Americas. I'm sure that the South Americans were de- lightedto hear that tenrt used again. Clinton is hoping to expand the United States trade with South America. Congress is currently considering legi~lation that would accomplish this goal; however, it was not voted on by the time Clinton arrived. In a related story; Venez-uel~ surpassed Saudi Arabia in oil production. ( CNN) From New York, in a, story re- lated to last week's report that New York's Police Commissioner is tak~ ing a lot of heat for police actions, a Haitian immigrant filed a $55 million lawsuit against the city. Abner Louima accused four Brook- lyn cops of torturing him, He says that the cops shoved a night stick into his rectum and his mouth. The supposed attack on Louima, who is black, has become a rallying cry for those who believe the NYPD is abusive towards minorities.(CNN} In England, it is unbelievable, Princess Diana is not the hot news. In fact, this is real news, so listen up. This week, for the first time in . over 75 years, the British P~ime Minister (Tony Blair) will meet with the president of Sinn Fein, the political faction of.the IRA (Gerry Adams). However,therewillbeno cameras allowed at the talks. The no camera policy is a political safe. guard in case of a return to violence. I can hear the PM now--Hand~ · shake? What handshake? In local news; skateboarders wen~ ; harassed in downtown · . Schenectady. In fact, Skateboard~ ·• ers are oppressed to such a degree·· by our society that spell check is . telling me that \skateboarders\ is not even a word.

Advertisements · . . · . · · - .'· 'Ql:lp~ Ql~lltturbicnsis • Oct6ber 16~ '1997 ~ Pa~e 7 1' It i N C I P t. E S tl f S 0 ll K n R E T I R E M E N '1' , · . I N V E S ·r l !\; (; YOU'RE LOOIONG AT TWO COMPLETELY OPPOSITE, FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT WAYS TO INVEST IN STOCKS. WE RECOMMEND BOTH. U.S. stoek market Cl;S a whole. W hether you wan.t a fund that selects specific stocks, or one that covers th.e market, we're on the same page. Our CREF Growth and CREF Equity Index Accounts use two distinct strategies for investing in the stock market, but both aim to provide what every smart investor looks for: long-term growth that outpaces inHation.(H~ Like our CRI<:F Stock Account, the largest singly managed equity fund in Ame1i~i><t and our Global Equities Account, which actively I Hll lt.>llll\ 1'-Pl \ \1 tOH\1 seeks opportunities · JO ]glt, 266~/t 24~f!t · worldwide, our .. • · • t ac~unts are managed f yc_•r ! ,Y\\ar5 Sine:~ in«'l>tiou b . d The CREF Growth Account searches for individual companies that we believe are poised for superior growth. In <:ontra!;>t, the Equity Index AccQunt looks for more I (\II t,ll<ll\ Ill \{I I. HI';, I . djversiftca.t·ion, with •320·1% .2.8 ~l~t . 26 2rJ~o · a portfolio. that . • J JU - • ft seeks to m1rrm· the ~...-...____.__, __ ...::.\..:.::l~t:..:;.~4-.~ ry expenence investment professionals. They;re the same experts who have helped make TIAA-CREF the largest pension system in the world:, with · $190 billion in assets under management. To fmd out more about building your portfolio-and your future-with TfAA- CR£F. just call I 800 842-2776. And take your pick. Visit us on the b1ternet at www~tiaa•cref.org Ensuring the future for those who shape it.w <~Tht- tor.ll r&.·ntrnr. shoY..·Il f(,r CRl-:F ''ftl'iPhlr ..,,nmnty .m.:nmnls rt:pRS:el\1 pa~l ·llL'rl(,rrnJiJut.• 1btal return~ .uhl tilt\ Jli'U\'-'Pill \·alul\ of mw:stmt\nts. II\ rhr .acl.'flunr~ w1ll Uut'IUdtc, a.ml .• vi('lll:~ lll•'Y va1y. Upon t•ttit\mprion. your \l\.'.·nunul.: uni11:1 ntd_\' bt wOr1h 11'\0fC ·tlf h•.,:~ thttn their t1rigin11_l p~ll't' Jn,•t·~uncnt. r<.•.uahs ;w\' t~hr.r all inVtrstmcmt. ;&dmi;ni~uativ4:. ;un.l di:o.tnbution rx.J~n~cs. lt.l.vr lw:to-n dt~hlrtt•d. c~Tbtic- m.:c:nunu tll't':' iwmlnb1t fc.U' Rttirt(IUHlt Annultit'~ -sub,rt:t tQ clw t~rm~ Qf,\OI!r in~fltlltian'r. lll..u~ The~· OII'C\ .woul..hlr ·fr•r .. n Snptllt\m~nt\'l J~nirrmt'l\-t t\nnuittt\!oo_ OOI)IlJt~l\LI on ,a:~fi.tts. undt-r lni'tn\grnlt\l'lt. CREF u·.rtifil·~\t«!!l- 11rt> -.ll*ll'iLut('d {~~ Tle\J\-CIH~F lnllt\:IJu\l <~nilln~ritutl<lt\•tl Sc·~·,~~(t\!'• .. l;o, snor<\ Ct1mpll\'IC' tnfor!O..aiion. ondu,lillg' . ,uul · •·alll 800842·2;.51 •~1. !\AM. f~r iii''<~>J'rl'lllS Rr•ool 11.., Jll'll>f><t'IU> ,,,rt•lul\\ hrlnr< ynu lm·t>l '\ .rntlone>nr,,·. 7'17 ·• Lunch Just $4.991! Mon.-Sat. 1tAM ... 3:30PM Dinner Only $7.951! Mon.-Thur. 4PM-10PM FrL-Sat. 4PM-10:30PM Sunday 12PM-10PM . Phone: (518)356-5949 1116 Altamont Ave. Rotterdam, NY 12303 From Union: Take Nott Terrace to State St · -Take a left onto State· St & follow to the Route 7 signs. Take a right onto Route 7 {\The Cr~town'.'). Continue straight as Route 7 turns into Curry Rd. Follow Curry until you're surrounded by strip malls. At.Alt.amont Ave., take a left Ocean Buffet is on your left Take-out Menu Availavle And we Accept Visa & Mastercard COME INTO MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! -1.041 State. Street- 382-5776

Page:- 8 · October 16, 1997 • 'Wljc Qioncut·Dil'nsi!;l , , OPIED Orpetl Letter to Union's Administration About Alcohol Acllmiflistration: lha\Ve f<Jur words for you--think before you act. Y ou.are as responsible for 1r aoe:EJIOJns as any student on this campus, and we fear that you wi U act in an unfair and dangerous way. Last~~'Ck, Dean Alford's letter to the campus caused more harm than good. · Don't get me wrong--there is a small drinking problem not only here, but on every '(!llTlpus nationwide. However, the problem at Union is not any worse it '\\aj; five weeks ago. Sure, the national deaths of college students are distur.bing,, butthe effect on Union students has been minimal. This was seen when 1'\16came to our.office to see a copy ofOean Alfo.rd's Jetter. We could not lor.:a.1e one for a while. Tili11kabout how airplane crashes occur in clumps. Most people agree that · there i s.n~ causation between the crashes. This fall, the alcohol-related deaths occmredat an alarming rate, but they were not caused by one another. Mamy,would ask at this point, \What about the number of 'Substance Abuses' weha\'le s-een in the Campus Safety section. Obviously, Union isin the same · boat !aS LSU and MIT!'; Wrong. In fact, the administration's own policies . mostprdi>ably caused the jump in Ellis Hospital visits. First, Resident Assis- tants ha-ve been told not to nurse inebriated students back to health, Instead, they a:re: Sllpposed to follow a new protocol; including ambulance calls. Sec- ond~ the administration, a(:cording to guidance counselors and the Admis- sions ()<ffice, haS attempted to admit a \higher c&liber'' of student. As the doctol''in 1h.is weekend's article. stated, the hospitalized students do hot know rth•••r·r\'J\ tolerance. More than likely, higher,caliber students did not party as much in high school as lower-caliber students. These;: reasons may not be fully accurate, but everyone I pose them to has beell t.Jil:lable to refute them. Why, then, did Dean Alford deem it necessary to scare both the campus and the community with his letter? The letter spurred Glilz:etJ~ article and TV6 piece. We were interviewed by both news orga- lnt;zatl·!QtiS but we were not quoted because we let it be known that the alcohol · · proble1t1l1ilS not grown at Union. Unfortunately, these agencies were more ter~st<:cl.ina juicy story than the truth. Dean Alford's letter served to em bar- . rassttt~ c<Jllege instead of concern the college community. · We:lu\/e heard some scary solutions to this supposed' problem, and we have. already seen strong reactions locally. Tuesday, Massachusetts banned all al- cohol fro111 publicly-funded Massachusetts colleges. This ideaisdea<l wrong, both lit.er:ally and figuratively. Last year, we spoke about problems with the \2 AM R~le\ (security shutting down patties at 2 AM), including drunk driv- ing and.l>-arrootn brawls. Banning alcohol on any camp-us is ridiculous. You will ~ush it underground and have larger problems to deal with·-DWl and car accidoe!'lts. When the student from LSU died in late August, the school. which curreiltiy is \dry surprisingly considered allowing alcohol on campus. Hav- ing tme ability to control, in-some little way, the alcohol students consume is mudl! i>etter than closing your eyes and putting your noses in the air. 0() raottry to take the cheap way out, administration members. It is like answeri11g the question, \Why did the North win the Civil WarT with the respDnse, \'Because the South gave up.\ Here, the administration is answer- tfle .question. \Why are students going to the hospital?\ by saying, \Be- . cause tlley are drinking.\ Search for the real underlying problems. Beer will not cause Jnost students to get that ill, and fraternities do not desetve the blame for thJis;. situation. Instead, these freshmen are finding access to hard liquor · and passing out while they search for a \night cap.\ So, ...vhat is the solution to this \problem?\ First. let the IFC control their houses a11d policies. They are making changes, and they appear to be acting much il:nme responsibly than the administration. Stop trying to scare IFC mem liets into making changes. Second, speak with local businesses about sales ofllard liquor to minors. Students can be in control whil~ they drink beer ;aad still have \fun\ at parties. Finally, stop panicking and overreacting from e\e11ts which have no heavy bearing on this campus, and start investigat- ing y-o!.lr own turf. Painting Union with a broad brush along with all other col1el!;e:S is counterpr<>ductive in \ FSR The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Aileen Quigley, Frank Rossi EDITORS-IN-CHIEF M11ttCohen Any- DiBattista EXl!.CUTJVE EDITORS Christopher Leone MlfMA GINO EDITOR Peter :Simon OP\/NfONS EDITOR Lori Green Ki111 ll()hbacl< ARTS& ENTERTAINMENT E[)Jl:ORS Da11 (l11een Gei()ff Sullivan SP().R1S EDITORS Tatiana Cogevina Rob Hagopian COMPUTER MANRS. Michelle Tham FEATURES EDITOR Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Amy DiBattista COPY EDITOR Laurie Kirsdiner Dave Meguerdichian PHOTO EDITORS PJUJ1C)GRAPHERS: Rick Lederer, Maria Guinle, Aaron Braunstein STAFf': Joslt Adams, Anjali Balasingham, Kelen Barr, Hannah Blum, JaooiEChandler, Shana Dangelo, Mike DeMicco, Gabriela Dory, Jason Eve;ett., Adrian MacLean, Erika Mancini, Pike Mody, Niek Papa nickola·s, Eqgene Schultz, Stefanie Speanb .. rg, David Weiner, Nell~r Sllah, Lisa Pertoso, Victoria Hargreaves, Maura Wittbold, Rebe<ea nie Slobotkin, Jon Gasthalter. 0 )'> a.~ .. Round Three:-The Saga Continues Dear Editor, We weren't going to get in- volved, but unfortunately we had no other choice . . . . So, the infamous Djahmbi and Mohmar have spoken again. These guys are just the coolest ever . . . . They sit around and make fun of people and situa- tions that they do not have a clue libout. My ,mother always said to me that people who make fun of others are just in- secure with themselves. So to the two cool kids on campus: Djahmbi and Mohmar ... it's time for some self- reflection. Who are you guys? No, I do not want or care to know your names, but I am saying: WHO DO YOU THINK YOU ARE?!!!! So you must be thinking, why do I care. Well I am another student who was supposed to go to Israel. As my very close friend Alissa Riba stated in her article to you, \We felt that in order to spend four· months in another country, we should be able to go and see as many sights as possible.;; Some of our parents Would not allow us to go, because they feared for our lives, our limbs and all in all our general well-being. I do not know why I need to jus-. tif)r my decision to two senior - guys on camplls who can't even sign their names to what they write . . . _ But anyway, onto the ·~special treatment\ thing, You know what. We did de- serve special treatmerit ... we had our wh<;>Je life rearranged in the matter <>f 6 hours. Put yourself in our position for just one minute. You're suppo~ed to go to Euro!)e for two weeks, go to Israel fer three months to experience the most incredible times of our lives and then lit- erally Bang, a bomb goes <rtf, and we are back at Good 01' Union College, with no where to live togethe:r. There was five of us who drove up immedi .. ately to get our life organized so we could start classes two days later. We did not get a warm welc<lrne from anyone we spoke to. No 0one wanted to deal with us, we were a complete nuisance to Residence Life and ·Administration in general. Yes, we are sorry for \annoying'\ them, but we had no where to live, no classes to take, and our whole World had been blown apart. So, yes, we wanted spe-. cial treatment. No we were not asking for i:hem to build an apartment for us and· send in a . decorator, now that would be absolute absttrd \special treat- ment\ . . _ we wanted like al- most every junior on this cam ... pus, to be released, to get an apartment. Nc;>w Djahrnbi and Mohmar, we have tried to ex- plain to you our situation in more detail.. I am sure I will get a response from you· guys, I would appreciate no \nanny- nanny poo-poos\ like Alissa Riba received . . . . By the way your ·rude response to Alissa Riba is what sparked my writ .. ing back, so maybe you should think about things before you write them. No need to be so rude to someone you have never encountered before. So, there's another thing for you cool kids to think about. Try to be mature and to reassess who the two <;>f you may be. One more thing regarding the who I e \special treatment thing,\ every student incJuding you, Djambi and Mobmar deserve special treatment wnen there is extenu- ating circumstances .... Please keep that in· mind before you go and judge other people. Sincere~y, Lisette Sand•Freedman .. The Editor Would Like To Inform Ms. Sand-Freedman That hrtr Letter Will Be Forwarded To Djahmbi (.lrid Mohmar.. Letters Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be address~d to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College ccmmunity; Finaldecisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. AU letters must be signed and saved on a high density disk although the auth6r's name need n<'>t appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. . Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority ofthe· Editorial Board, and no one member in particular .. Any opinion columns; or cartoons reflect the opinions of .the writets or artists, and not necessarily the opinions ofthe Editorial Board. • .. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of · the Editorial Board. . · The Conoordiensis-is printed by World Media, 1104 Central Avenue, Albany\ NY, 12205. The Concordiensis subscribes to the InterJCoUegiate: Press (I:P), National Student News Service, & King Syndicates. · H Las angle wasn~ butit perate Wi1 agre~ fool: .j .listen pay r tides. two f about notw We follm Willi; dencf This i every pleasi your aga,in Jm Coli· $1, 1( chea pass~:: famil Nc he or apart two-] at ion livin: Myj Coli~ of tl else Sc seen mak com abot ents blist' nam ther. Vv lotte roor

~PIED . · . ['Jl~ <Glllu:orbimsis • Octobct· 16, 1997 · P4!gc 9 0 • • 1n1ons Here We Go Again!•· Forty Years and Has Anything Changed? by Cliris Leone Managing Editor·. Last week I tried a different angle on my weekly opinion. In was not as brash,. or possibly cruel, butit did give me a week to r~cu­ perate from the frequent hate mail. Without the mail, this job loses a great deal of its 'luster.. I am no fool; the ad Ill inistration will never listen to me,.andonlythe students pay much attention to these ar- ticles. Nine times out of ten, the two factions do like to complain about my methods when I write, not what I write about. Well, here we go again. Tt).e following is not an attack on Dean Williams or on the staff of Resi,. dence Life, who do a he U of a job~ This is a tirade against policy. To everyone whowrites me this week, please realize that before you write your pathetic personal attacks. against me. * * * * * Just to live in a room at Union College costs approximately . $1, 164 per temt · This figure is not cheap, and the way the cost is passed on to the students and their families is unfair. No matter where a student lives, he or she pays the same thing. An apartment at Wade Lupe, be it a ~· two-pers~m or a four-person situ- ation costs a student the .same as living in South College dormitory. My 7' x 14' broom closet in North College cost me the same as one of the students living anywhere else on campus. Why is this? Some how; some where, it seems as though the college is making a large profit on room ac- commodations and could care less about saving students or their par- ents money. Before your pens start blistering away epithets against my name> please let me explain fur- ther. Where Y9U Iive is based on a lottery.c I am not bitter about my room size, only about how much I am paying. for it. I did not qualifY • for the lottery because ofmy en- rollment status during the previous · spring term. My roQm was based on the discretion of Residence Life, and I am happy to have a . place to live. However, this does not make th¢ cost acceptable. If any member of the student body, who is of course oflegal age, . was to check into ca hotel, the cest for a two-person room compared to a one~person room would be vastly different. Go to the college center and buy a soda. The price for a l6aolince soda and 20 ounce soda is different Only in the world of housing is there such inequal- ity. There is an answer to my di- lemma, which some~me will un- doubtedly Write and submit to the Concordy. I could move off cam- pus, stop complaining, and then \find something worthy to write about.\ E~cuse me, but this com- plaint actually affects us all. It af- fects total tuition costs, which fac- tors into how the school is rated, which many students love to com- plain about Tb:is cost problem~ or inequal- ity, does effectthe students in other ways: It is not mandatory for any student to move of campus. It is . not mandatory to have a room• mate. Why is there a mandatory flat rate cost? The real solution to the inequal- ity of housing lies in an idea simi• lar to renting out business office space. Residence life should mea- sure the size of each room. We have enough engineers to make this possible. Then charge a rate per square foot. * * * * * One last Comment about fresh- man drinking on campus. Why was it when the word \modera- tion\ was written in this paper it was attacked. At this moment it is the \in\ word. For those who do not believe me, please see the Tri- Delt in the \\''\\'\'\ ,.,~nn•.,. by Josh Adams Staff Writer Last month marked the 40'h an- niversary of the integration of the Arkansas Public Schools. In t957 President Eisenhower sent Na- tional Guardsmen to Little Rock to insure that nine black children could attend the same :;;chools as white children Gust a little over- view for those who failed high school U.S. history). Now, in 1997, four decades af- ter that monumental event in our nation's history, one has to won- der if anything reaHy has changed for the better. Although the civil rights movement has been going strong in the recent half century, there is little doubt that things have changed for the worse. True, those eyesore signs that said \Colored Only\ have been removed from the backwards Southern states, but there are still de facto laws that keep whites and blacks separated. The actu.al signs and physical as- pects may be gone from the days · of Jim Crow, yet the stigma of rac- ism and is still evident in • many people's minds. How many times have you seen a racially in- tegrated neighborhood or two people of different color sitting next to each other on a bus? Even 130 years after tbe Emancipation Proclamation, people in the south and in the north still have precon- ceived notions about themselves and the people around them. in this age ofincreased informa- tion and technology, it amazes me how shallow anddose-mindedthe majority of the American public is. In our society, there doesn't seem to be a need to act humanely to one another, whether we are .different colors or not. People may like to convince themselves that every- thing may be fine .and dandy inour society, yet the reality is that we as a people are as segregated to ... day as we were 40 years ago. A good example ofthis is the m-fated Fashion Show of Support at Union a year ago. After the show, how many people complained about the lack of diversity among the mod- els? I don't find it surprising that these people complained about the in the show I find it aston- . ishing that the college actllally put something together that was as purebred as this fashion shew. For a school that is trying to make it- selfmoJ:'e diverse, Union sure isn't proving itself. For those of you who consider yourselves open-minded, I say take a good hard look at your- selves. Are you really as fctir and honest as you want pe()ple to think? How many times in the past week have you attempted to talk to a person of another color ()f even glanced in his or her direction when they passed you on the street? If it was someone oof your race, chances are you .said h'Cllo or at least acknowledged his er her presence. As far as American so- ciety thinks they have come, there are still steeper mountains to climb. Even 30 years after Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. uttered those ground shattering \.Vords \I have a dream, that one day white children and black children can walk hand in hand to sdmo!,\ it seems that little has been done to cure the poison that is racism in the hearts of the American o, eorJ!e. Recent E-Mailed Letters to the Editor Dear Editor: In the next week, faculty will receive information about the submission of abstracts for NCUR 9~. which is scheduled for April23-25, 1998, at Salisbury State University in Salisbury, Maryland. Salisbury is on Maryland's eastern shore, an area of natural beauty and great seafood (certain bacteria notwithstanding) sandwiched between the Chesapeake Bay and the Atlantic Ocean. The NCU~ abstract deadline is December 1, BUT the Union internal deadline is Friday, November 14, the last day of class for the fall term. The U~ion student abstracts are reviewed by a group of faculty an.d Dean Lewis; those accepted are sent by Dean Lewis to the N CUR host site. With this procedure, we ensure that the college's financial commitment for NCUR travel, registration and lodging is within budget (or nearly so), and we also ensure that only abstracts of reasonable quality will be sent for review at the host site. The Baltimore Sun has called the Salisbury State campus \one of the most attractive campuses in Maryland.\ Moreover, the university administration has made a very strong commitment to NCUR 98, and the fdks at Salisbury have guaranteed that real spring will exist in Eastern Maryland by the third week in April. As a consequence, everything seems to be in place for a memorable NCUR. So, if you want to be pan c)fthe Union \NCUR contingent,\ check wHh your faculty·research advisor in the very near future. Copies ofthe NCUR 98 Call for Papers are available in Dean Lewis' office. Tom Werner Chemistry Dear Union, Greetings from the promised land! Since arriving in Israel three weeks ago our days have not bee11 spent worrying about bombs and a constant fear of terrorism. Instead, our days are spent like the rest of the Israelis \'t open air markets and studying for not the usual three but four classes. Our weekends have been spent traveling on buses, hiking and spending nights under the stars near the Lebanese border. After reading e-mail from home and, of course, our weekly dose of the Concordy, we have been con: fronted with all of the rumors and speculations that have been circulating about the Israel term abroad. First ()fall, we respect the views of our fellow classmates who decided not to come and understand their position. This was a very personal choice that everyone had to tnake for themselves. Let us explain to you why we ultimately chose to come and how things look from this angle. In our lifetime~ there may never be \peace\ in Israel. We all felt, that as students, this was one ella llenge that we were all willing to face. For each of us this was a way to show support for this young and promising country. We realize that it is the people our age who hold and defend this country which is constantly faced with adversity. It is our Israeli peers who walk around in full uniform that help inspire us to travel and make the most of our time here. All of this is not to say that we are not reminded and aware ofthe immitlel1t threat posed by the surrounding Arab nations. We always take the necessary precautions and are not ignorant of the current political status. As a speaker informed us, \An hour is a long time in Israeli politics.\ It is not rare to be walking in the mall or to be riding on a bus and inadvertently bump into a soldier's machine gun. Unfortunately, this is the reality in Israel and has been since its conception in 1948. Ironically, it is these encounters that grant us peace of mind and Often make us feel more secure than we would in the .States. Listening to the news has become an integral part of out daily life, instead ()f being entrenched in the mundane and isolated Union community. We are all experiencing first hand the issues that face the other side of the globe, It is notabout names and dates anymore; peacemaking is now a reality, something that concerns us everyday. Now to us, it is not about an historic handshake on television but rather about real life student activities in bomb shelt~rs. For those of you who decided that this was not the best time to come, we all miss you and hope that you have a great Fall term. We look forward to seeing you in January. Sincerely, The Unioq Crew in Israel

my name all over campus. It's a make us more .\n\\'\\''~'~' catchy name, one you're likely to raisers for local charities will Caroline Welch remember. As your Freshman strengthen the bond between My name i_sCaroline Welch and Class Representative, one of . my Union College and the commu... I am running f(lr class representa- many challeng~s will be finding a nity. To make all of this happen,. tive because Ifeelthatlw~>Uldrep­ way to unify us and this campus. 'you need someone responsible, re- resent our class welL Unity with ·each other, our class, liable, enthttsiastic, and above an, I would be a good bridge be- is perhaps the most important type optimistic to represent you. I be- · tween the administration ~d the of unity to develop. However,. we lieve that I am all these tllings, and students, and will .help to address. must also look outside our class am more than willing to put my and so'lve issues. to the campus as a whole. It is es- time and effort into furthering the 1 have experience. in. leadership sential to build a strong rapport goals and ideals of our dass.- So,. positions and woul<l bring that ex- with the upperclassmen, the fac- now that you kAow just a little bit perience to the stndent forum to . · ulty, and the community of more about me, you may ask· helprnaketheclassof2:00imake Schenectady. In order to do this, I \What's her name again?\ My .. · · · · · ·\ -·- · · · · think that activities SUCH as aT- name is ERIN ALOAN and 1 am Jennifer Ma~D:ow-eu----t~tt:iv~ the experience and the shirt sale ora class trip would bring running for Freshman Class Rep- Hi~· my name is Jen MacDowell dedication needed to be the best now I am sure you have .seen our class together and as a result, resentative. -~-----.._.;,__, ____ ..,...._..... __ _;;; _______ _..... ________ ,__, ____ .......;,j and 1 am running f<lr Freshman class representative you have ever Kate Stefanik tantly the new yearly schedule. Class Representative; · .. · had:. These schedule changes could We are the -class of 200fso do So :when it actually comes to My name is Kate Stefanik and I'm running for the position of Freshman Representative. greatly affect our school. you know what that means?· We· declsien time on Election Day, re- lf elected Iplan to tightfor what m~e number '01! I'm here to make member ,vote for Jen MacDowell l'm sure all of you know that the Student Forum is Union's student government. What many people don't know is what the Student Forum actually does. you want. I want to hear your sure this. school knows-that. the responsible choice!!.! voices and bring your ideas, as When I went around to get my well as my own, to the student fo- sign~tures, peopl~ asked me what rum. l was going to do for tb<;; class. The I will do my best to make sure answetto that question is: l' n do that the administration knows our whatever it takes and whatever They are responsible for allocat- ing about 400,000 dollars to all of the clubs at Union as well as orga- nizing many of the activities on campus. opinions before implementing you want. lam not in this posl- anything. Since we, the freshmen, tion for me; I am here forth e. class will be most affected by the.ir de- of 2001. cisions. lf elected I will bring· de- You're still probably wondering The Student Forum serves asthe voice of the students on current issues such as the new lunch schedule and even more impor- termination, creativity and expe- what qualities I have over others. rience to this position. the student government award at For 4 years, I was a class repre~ I served on the executive board the end ofmy senior year. Please sentative for my school and f6r 2 ofmy highschool student govern- remember my name, Kate years, I was a school rep'resenta- ment for two and received when vote. tive with class . · Alen Gershkovich You know that I'm o_n the ballot but you have no clue who 1 am huh?? Well you know that lam Alen Gershkovich and that I am run- am coming from with respect to· leadership. In my capacity as the Jon Lemle Student Board Member 1 actively Hi, my name is Jon Lemle, and lobbied before the New York City I'm running for Freshman class Council and have organized hun- . representative. dreds of students to lobby for ~.Ju-. WAlT~ ST{)P this- is BORING, cation dollars in' Albany for 'the everyone starts offtheir candidate· past two years. I have worked statements like this. I could tell closely with the Board of Educa- you how qualified 1 am and why tion and the Mayor's office to you should vote for .me over any make sure that my position was not · one of the other candidates. But just a rubber stamp for their poli- · just telling you won't make a dif- cies. When issues concerning New ference, I need to show you what I 'l ork City students were at hand I . . can do for you. made sure that their voices were Most of you probably hold the heard and that people listened to misconception that the Student what they had to say. I organized Forum has little if no ,impact on student councils throughout New your life at Union at all. The Stu- York City that met with me on a · . dent Forum is our voice to the rest monthly basis to discussanyprob- of the scltool and to each other. ning for Freshman !ems that they were having in their What effect could the Student Fo- Rep. I think this is a good time schoql districts. rum actually play in your life? to tell you something about my- I have grown from my experi- If you haven't already heard, the self. I am from New Y crk City and ences on the New York City Board Deans have come up with a. new I went to a high school with over of Education. I know that I could schedule that will take place next 4,000 students. For the past two effectively represent the students tenn: This new schedule would years I have I have served on the of Union. I will make only one ensure ridiculous lines at all of the New York City Board of Educa- promise to you because anything dining ha:lls. This schedule. was tion as the Student Advisory Mem- more would be undermining your implemented without even con- ber. Over all, I represented more trUst and integrity.lfl am elected sultingthestudents. lwould make than I ,000,000 students in 180 as your Freshman Rep;, I will work sure that if a change were going to schools across the City. I am tell- hard to make sure that WHAT nowned. With our excellent pro- ing you this not to brag, but to YOU WANT IS WHAT YOU fessors and beautiful campus, the _sh_o_w_y_o_u_w __ h_o_. · .... I_am_a_n_d_w ......... h_er ... e_I __ a.,..E_T_A_N .... D_N_o_. T .... H_· _IN_o_·. ·_L_E_s_s_!_! '~· administration has been able to David Kay How can one person know what an entire class wants? Because our freshman class is so large and var- ied in interests and desires, it's dif- ficult to answer this question. However, I tried to gain a better perspective last Friday as I trav- eled through West College accu- mulating petitions. As I went from door to door, I gained a better idea of who my classmates are as I introduced myself to many previously total strangers. In some instances, I sim- ply shook hands and became ac- quainted while in others, class- mates explained to me what they looked for in representation. As a college, I believe that Union is on the brink of becom- ing highly respected and re~ recruit stronger classes year after year. With the strong academic pro- gram here, it's no wonder why a larger number of students are be- ginning to come from a great dis- tance. H()Wever, as we expand and become more diverse, we must consider the fact that not aU stu- dents will continue to have the same interests. For example, even though the fraternities provide a strong base for entertainment on carttpus, Ws a fact that not all stu- dents are interested in that as a pri .. mary diversion. An overwhelming fraternity scene can be a turn off for many applicants and as a re• sult we must provide other diver- be made in our schedule' at least the Student Forum would be ccn- sulted about it first. The people who it would affect the most, namely the students would have the opportunio/ to voice their opin- ions on the issue. Fer example the new 4·1-4 proposed term sched- ule. I will make sure that our stance on the issue is well heard. . All righthere comes the section with the campaign promises: l. How about a pencil sharpener and a clock in every classroom. sions. Dartmouth and Colgate, two schools located in less~ than-desir- able locations, overcome the same problems with such forms of en- tertainment as music and comedy · groups. I believe that we should be able to provide the same forms · · of diversions for students here. Another need. we have is to in- crease our inter~ction ~f diverse . groups on campus. Onfortunately, many of the minorities on campus separate themselves from the rna- . jority. It's my opinion that we need programs to increase interaction of minorities with th<: maJority. · Whether you agree with me on my beliefs or not,. I thank you for consjderingmy platfotm and hope that you cast your vote on what y6u believe isrightthis Friday. · 2. ln~reased publiciZing of aU Union spot:ts. games. Namely . a huge board or display case in the Campus Center that would have the time and location of all Union's sports games. 3. A government re.p to go around to all of the freshman floors and explain what the, government does and is currently doing. 4. A sheet that has the contact and .a description of all tile clubs and organizations at UniQn. 5. After reading the letter .from Dean Alfred, I will try to ensure that no unjust restriction~ are placed on our class as a whole. 6. Most of all, I will guarantee all of you a voice in · our government through me. Any of your concern~ will bec()me my conc.~rns, and can be channeled through me. lfyou have read this far, there's no reason not to finish. Finally, I urge all of you to out and vote on Friday, so that you are taking an active role in our schoel gcv.em- ment. When you go and vcte re· member, VOTE JON Lemle FOR FRESHMEN REP

• • • • • • <LECTRICAL ENGINEERING •MECHANICAL ENGINEERING • MAT ·seat! 2Sth College 04 When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nih degree. And that's the level oftechnology you'll experience at R<Jytheon. Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower -together, Rayt-heon Electronic Systems.,. Raytheon E-Systems and RClytheon Tl Systems are driving tedmology to the limit. And wer re loo.king for engineers who wanf f() push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. At Raytheon you'll toke t.echnology- and your career- to the highest possible level .. You'tl take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career plocernent office now to schedule an interview, or check out our websJte at www.rayjobs.com.

THE UNEXPECTED EvENTS OF' FRIDAY NIGHT. by .MiChelle Tham Features Edit(}r my house, everyone was either in a catatonic sleep,or still out party- ing, lt is a story stranger than fiction, are probably thinking that I am an were there, however there was Panic set in, and I decided thatl but likemost other X-Files hereon absolute \nut job.\ This statement only one little shower shoe. I lost Hmm .... where to start? Well; 1 would jt)st sleep. on one of the camp11s this story is true. Imagine can be verified by calling the .it, misplaced it, or ,jt was sucked suppose l'H teHyou the story from couches inthefronthall. Then, my if you will, a place that defies all Norton State Mental Institution. into some alternate universewhere the beginning, since that is where better sense kicked in and l de- the knQwn laws of physics, a place Why is my room making me another version of me might be stories usually sta~: cidedto just clean upthemess and that stretches the boundaries of going insane.? I will tell you. In a wondering why his luck is sud- lt aU began Friday night. Star- · cut4.upinmy.r.oommate'sbedand sp~ce and time--a place that is period of a little less than48 hours, denly so much better than mine. ing lazily intomy ceiling, ldiscov-_ deal with everything in the lt1()rn- known a:; Davidson South. my room has eaten onepairofRed .O:Editm's Note- ered that I was bored--okay, be- ing.Iwas tired anyway, and I sup• to be fait, let's be a little mere Champion double XL shorts. One- At this point in the writing of this . yond bored. Not that I wasn't pl;lse I finally convinced myself specific: the vortex that is ruining -not two, but one--Adidas-style articletheauthoroffidingthePine, thrilled t(l be laying Ufelessly on that I would be fine ifllockedthe myHfe is located in room 363 A. I shower sandal. This one has Mr. Schultz, collapsed in babbling my bed, 'but there are better things door and fell asleep as fast as I am ~&ing insane--not quickly and puzzled me most because I keep ball of infancy. W,e at The a girl can do on a Friday night, I could. Huddled quietly between painlessly, but agonizingly slow all my shoes, including those Concordiensis then called the lo- finally ventured out with a couple thfil sheets, I fell asleep sometime and painfully. All strands of real- shoes, lined up against the wall in cal insane asylum, which came in ' friends intt;> the blur of pe.o,ple art;~und 4:30AM. ity !l.S I know them are shattering the room. When I woke up on a timely fashionto take him away. · standing around someplace down I don't think T heard it at first, arotm<l me. The very fabric of the Monday morning, just one little We here at Union College wish campus and acted interested for a but the silent rapping at the door universe is being pulled into this shower shoe was left along the Mr. Schultz a speedy and quick little while. Alas, I was still ut- grew to aviolentbanging. I sprang vortex that is located in my room. waiL Both of my sneakers were recovery. terly h<;>red, so I decide~ to go out _of bed and recoiled into the 13:y this point in this article you there. Both of my Doc Martins ·home and find something else to . comer of the room, grasping my _ _::_ ___ _:_ _________ ..:_~~---~~__;:.------~------------------t keep me entertaine4. Practically pillow and holding my breath. Pointless Observations Taking Some Flack and Spitting it Back by David Kay Staff Writer Seeing a good number of high school seniors coming to the schcol last week, I decided that tallcing smack about Schenectady rn ig;ht not necessarily be a good idea. I also decided that saying such other things about certain s~ho<>ls/groups might also be a deterrant to increased admissions. 1\s a result I'm going to try not t() d() anything that would hurt the reputation ofthe school or my col- umn. Also, since I'm running for Freshman Representative, l'm go- illg. to try to give myself the best image possible. All freshmen, ple<:~se remember, no matter what I write I really am a good person deep down inside. Well, I got a little flack for my last article in which I recounted my a<lventures into town and found outthe hard way why I shouldn't go back there. Yes, I nearly got mugged and yes, it was almost as had to hear about it for half an hour the next tuesday on WRUC. .( didhave to take the bus a week aE() last sunday home. In the case that you haven't ever taken this fcrm of public transportation be- f()re, the station is more or less a hangout for the scum of the city. In rny opinion tl1e whole place co\lld really use a good Lysol bath. Somebody wrote to me stating that I was \a rich kid in need of a dose cf the real world.\ If being sun()unded by scummy people is y()ur idea of the \real world,\ then joia the tuesday night crew at WRUC. (By the way, thanks to tllose guys for all of the free pub- ! icity.) All right, so I might be a \rich kid in need of a dose of the real world.\ Look around buddy, you'll see that I'm not the only one. The reader went on to state that I was giving the school a bad im- age by writing about my experi- ence. If I wrote about how I made my bed every morning, did my homework and went to bed early~ who would read it? People want to hear about two things--sex and killing. Besides, it serves as more or less of a warning for the fresh- man who haven't ventured out into Scumnechtady yet. Enough with Schenectady. If there's anyone here to bash, it's aU the students who are so ob- sessed with material possessions. I was standing in line with a friend of mine the other day for what I thought was something important, since it was so long. I thought that being longer than the line for books at the beginning of the year, it might be worthwhile to hold my place and then find out later what I was waiting for. Little did I know I was waiting in line for the latest J. Crew catalog. Low quality for a high price--I guess students here would be top candidates for prod- ucts from J. Crew. Now for some letters. The pile on my desk has grown to a great deal more than l can manage, so l thought that I'd share a few ex- cerpts. ''Is your goal to write something offensive about everyone on cam- pus before the year is over? I'm surprised the staff hasn't taken your column off or at least edited ft. \ Actually, last week I did get ed'.. ited, more or less. [ wrote an aru ticle that the staff said they couldn't print because of slander. I was stuck having to write my column on the night before the pa- per went to the printer, and it didn't even get printed. \Did you really think that the hockey players would find your article that you wrote three weeks ago funny? I certainly-didn't. I found it quite humorless and dry; \ Well, one of my roommates is Canadian, and we joke about that kind of thing all the time, so I guess I didn't look at it as that big of a deal. To tell you the truth, I thought it was funny, or 1 wouldn't have given it my high- quality stamp of approval. \It seems as if the admissions people must have all been on crack when they let this year's freshmen in. You're a freshman, what's the deal?\ Don't ask me buddy. These are the same people that admitted the editors who let me write. Have you ever gotten any seri- ous hate mail? Yes, I actually got some last week and whoever wrote it was obviously either illiterate or in third grade. It was written in thick lead pencil like we used in el· ementary school and had either · chocolate mHk or snot stuck to it, so· I don't look at too seriously or offensively. Are you trying to replace Thurberville? If you are, you 1 re doing a pretty crappy job. Your column {sn 't even the best in the paper. I kn<:>w it's not the best in the paper-Eugene Shultz has the best column in the paper, idiot. Until next week, sent letters to the Concordiensis offic~ but not to box 1058. · everyone in my house had left for Maybe I thought that iflpretended the weekend, and I was subse- to llOtl)e there or that I was asleep, quently reduced to watching St. theywouldgoaway.lwaswrong. Elmo's Fire and ordering cheese He burst through the door in and fries from Howlers ... and~tp:at is. stocd th.ere for a moment --a when everything started. ho()ded figure. I couldn't see his I heard an incessant patter at my facebecause the light from the hall window, and assuming that some casta .glow around his form, leav- idiots were just playing out some ing Qnly a silhouetted outline in my drunken game, l ignored it.. That view .1 started crying, screaming. is, until a rock came flying threw Then the glintofmetal caught my my window, sending glass in a view as a flash oflight fell across sparkling mess acr.oss my bed the place where his right band was. (whichlfo~natelywasno longer l hadn't noticed it before. laying Ol!). The blood drained from The night could not possibly . my face and I could feel my heart have been any worse, I did not drop. I screamed first, and then just know what to do, and he was mov- sort of stood there in shock. I ran ing toward me. All that rang over to the window t() see who on through my head was how scared earth would be so insane as to be I was and how I should have called hurling rocks at my window, but security the moment that dusty no one was there. rock had come flying through my It was about 3:30 AM at this window. · point, and since my roommate was Wait, none of this actually hap- away, suffice it to say that I was pened. My weekend was utterly scared out of my mind. There was boring; but I thought that a little broken glass everywhere, and alii twisted mesh of a story wpuld be could think of doing was to bang slightly amusing. Besides, the se- on every door in my hall and find que! to Scream is coming out soon, someone to tell me that everything so I figured·I;djustadd a little tic- would be okay and that some psy- tion into my otherwise quiet life. chotic people had not actually at- Oh, and I hope my roommate is tacked my room. It was. to no avail, reading this--I like to psych her out because of the people still left in once in a While. Hi, Jules. • 01 wer, go in in o: go tl yes, Wh Wh1 you 8] witt bast foU Hor vall one let': eve pia; 1' Whl the Re< Per bal all) nat A.' Wl Kn mu fti! Sk1 do' Gr· tou l on tOl se< .an w sec sec co kn Li 1

Fcttturcs . . Qilp:- Qhnu:~'lroim5is ··October 16, 1997 ·'Page 13 by Anonymous Due to the sheer volume ofmail Mr~ Schultz, lay off the 'shrooms, ness. we !mow you don't live in U11ion student:;;~re ·llQW spend~ Thurston. Besides, what kind of ing Mummy and J>()ppy' s moola we received this past week, weare s:ick, misguided, perverted; .psycho on no11alcoh<>lic,. r~cr€!ational fun. going to write a shorter column freak a:re you? We'd like to Ven- It's all about m<lre bang for your ~in order to give us more time to ture a guess as to what exactly you buck., Just ask tlle 1'llree Stooges go through it for next week. Oh are wtiting about. Co~bining our in Davidson who:'\'i1:1gested illegal yes, .next week willbe a doozy--a alcoh()l-re~ded intellects, we have substa:nces.\ DLd the dancing Whopper Week! Hmm . . . come t()theconclusionthatyouare . midgettalkbackvrarr~toyoutoo? Whopper. Stop thinking with not talking about ice cream, norare Of course, thene ar\e still those your stomach, Djahrn bi. you satisfied with the attention your more traditional sll.LdeBts who are Speaking of which~ what's up \ict;: cream\ has been receivin~. sti:lltrying;to fin<htlleir diploma in with postponing The Simpsons for Funny ,I've. never heard it referred the bottom of th,~u \beer cups. As baseball? I don't know about you to as. \ice cream\ before. expected, there -..vas the normal folks, but one ha:lf hour of substance abuse:~t:ndtransportto Homer is much mor.e socially Ellis. Isn't it ui~e how we can vatuable and entertaining than '\Ofcourse there are . now say \expected substance one thousand World Series .. So, ·zz . 11 d··~ abuse and tran:sp()rt to Ellis?\ let's all pray forrainin Atlanta Sfl t. OSe more tra l- . A~en'·t you proud of all the every Sunday for the rest of the ·. t · . . l f ,J .. t. . . h vomit these time citizens have playoffs, thanks. zona .. S ·Uuen S W 0 provided our toilets with? Af- Nex:t, We're curious to-know are Still frying fOjilnd ter all, ~at's vhat they're he~e what the public opinion is on · · · . · f()r. Tins weeok\'s free cook!e the state of pinbaH at the .their diploma .in the goes to Mr. ~Blit:zed ~isitor. Reamer and the Rat(skeller)? · · Why does he ~et the pnvelege Perscnally, we think more pin- bottom Oj their beer <lf!l free cookie?' ball is a necessity. How can Well, at 3:58 AM on October Cu rns·. \. anyone expect us to procrasti- r 5th,. this guy (v.illom we assume nate effectively'ifthe French T. was t6o inte[li~ell~ to came to A. ishoggingMedieval Madness? (M()hmar' s note--in case you Union as lb student) get Why did' they take away Arabian wanted to know, Djahmbi's. \spe- schn()ckered S()IJ'.le:where and. fell Knights ·(Strike the genie for cia!\ name is chunky monkey. over. As if tlli s: wa-sn't funny multi~ball!)? Why not oust that Whot1, keep your distance, Mr. enough:, when <jUe:stbned by our friggin' baseball game from the Schultz.) . ' mobile-armored:strile command, Skeller and tuck Arabian Knights It is. now time for the centerpiece he \'Vas \un.able: ho remember spe- d own in the friendly .confines of of thi~s week's column--the ever- cifics of i!lcidenrC' Aside from Grease-Land? However, do not popuiar Security Reports. First the cookie this ~i:thas coming to touch the original Atari Stat Wars. item: hello! Needles in Davidson him:, he alsc got~funride in a big, tlallelujah,. Djahmbi! Preach and Webster. Discuss. At least shiny yehiche wili.h lbts of flashing ' on,. Mohmar. D & M's momen- Webster was authorized. However, ligllts. tousthought--Whynottakeouta the resident heroin-addicts in Wbilewedo]]ope withallofour section of the Remper book stere Davidson are not disposing of their hearts th.at we ~all grow up to be . and put more pinball- and Star par!tp.hernalia correctly after their like you, Mr. Bliitze<l Visitor, that Wars-oriented material in? What weekly speed.:ball. We're glad to woul<l als() reqt~Lre us to grow up. section, you ask? Why, the only see tltat Union students are finally As y()u can tell by our columns, section we can afford to lose, of getting tired of alcohol. Hey, Fred, that probably wo11't happen any course--the textbook region. You there will be less drinking on cam- time soon. know you want it. pus~ We think that it looks like So to end it, i11 the great words \lnsert and Twist,\ \Small Hamilton Hill is 'going to put of Lunch Lady U10ris, \More tes- Lick,\ \Big Li.ck,\ \Biters\ ... Mobawk and Mr. Gee's out ofbusi- tides means mole iTC>n.\ The Sisters ofDelta Professor Pick of the Amy~ Aileell.; Michelle, Delta Delta would like Month! Thanks f~Dr JUtting up to thank the Brothers of From the sisters of with my dirty, dirty Psi-Upsilon for Satur- Delta Gamma htimor. day. We had a great Love J'oO'll guys, time! Frank~ Ell~ene I thought we were closer AMQ, than that· To my sa..viors at 1050 Don't hog the per- EDS and the one that got sonals this week! They . Chris, - aVtay, were. cute thought Love, When your the Editor, Despite any obstacles S.P. can we get the adult we've hadl t() face thus channels for the dish? far-we have: prevailed ... Hey 1022, Eugene· together. I 1ove you guys thanks for the Pot with alll llf my heart. Luck on Sat! We had a To Rocky, Steph, +Jill, Each of you llave light- blast! ~ We hope you are having ened up my life in you love, Stacy a wonderful time abroad! own sp etCial way. [t's not the same without JK Congratulations to you. We miss you! Professor_Patrik on Love, The Bubs Crew ar- Finding Solace Among the Red and Gold of Fallen Leaves by Reuel Daniels Staff Writer I love I love waking up in morning to a bright autumn sun seeing the c<;>Jors chaage from rich summer blues and greens the wannth of brown, red and I :love dancing outside under- the trees and spinning around leaves fall like snow around I love the smell in the air. The of fires somewhere ·in the Pist:anc:e. I love the sounds. The IP'P.e!~P. flying south for the winter the hustle of squirrels to gather many nuts as they can. I love sweaters and wrapping fleece blanket around me. I watching football games with cup of hot chocolate in hand. I fall. I love sitting outside and read- poetry with my fleece blanket hot cocoa. I love watching the . ind sweep up the leaves and send spinning through the air as if were playing tag. Fall always makes me nostalgic my .childhood. I remember rak- the yard and having leaf pile with my neighbors to see o's was biggest. l remember ing as fast as I could from one · of my yard to the other so I ld take one leap that would me soaring in the air and then ·me in a mattress of orange and bro1wn leaves. I remember leaf tiel e. SMPPF. It was great Love, Eugene \Ice Cream Boy\ Schultz Seniors, Sign up for phots TO .. DAY. In the student activities office. CC408 J.G. 007 coming through but 2 timer is in the lead. Who? Whats a girl to do when .she•s puckin•? Bean D, I am always around to talk! H • folts and trying to bury my best friend underneath our piles. I wish I c<Juld still jump into those piles and feel the same sort of wonderment that falJ. brought to me as a child. I~ut now, I would rather sit backat~d watch the chil- dren play in tile leaves. Now, I would rather dance amongst the leaves as they ·turn and twist arcund my every move. Now, I wouldrathersitin a fieldand read a good book as the sun casts that fall light upon ille world. I went hikingthis past weekend and was able 't() see the autumn f()liage in its splendor. As we hiked, a carpet of fallen leaves covered the eanh and crunched under our bo<Jts. We camped out under the stars, 1() ld stories as we warmed by the fue and ate the spa- ghetti we had cooked for dinner. We listened a let to the sounds that surroundecl us and watched our breath. ag!linst the crisp night ait. It smellecl of fire, .of smoke from some campsite off in the dis- tance, and ofleaves. It made me fee1 good to be out in nature experien cingthe glory of fall. It made me realize how lucky I was t0 be so close to the moun- tains, to be able tojust get up and go hiking without any huge prepa- ration. It felt so good to hike to the top of that M()untain and look out at the season changing around me and beneath me. I love autumn, it's colors, smells, tastes and sounds . To the Guys in Davidson 363- Where the Hell is my Crap!And:y I know you took my sh()rts. Give me· my stuff back Eagene Sully & Queen, The Concordy Will Miss Yoa; Good Luck With The ''FADE.\ -Sweetie- To Concordy- Thanks For The Fajita Aileen~ P .S. I hate this job!!!!! ,., ''

Pag_e 14 • October 16, 1997 • 'illlrc Qit1ltwroimtsis . . 1 · - . Science & Technolo~· Science & Technology The Second Edition of \Geek Speak .... '' Eudora Versus Telnet: _How D·o- You Acce·ss E-Mail? by Jennifer Trotts &- Brian Peek Staff Writers Email is sweeping the world as a new form of communication, re- placing pen and paper. Due to its popularity, we feel it deserves a more in depth explanation. Email is short for \Electronic Mail'' and, just like regular mail, you need a method ofsorting and sending the mail. We will begin with a correction with last week's article. In Jennifer's descri-ption of the makeup of an email address she incorrectly referred to- \idol.union.edu\ as the DNS'. It is actually the \domain name . ., Every computer on the Internet has an lP Address(see last week's article for a complete description) and some computers have a name associated with the lP address to make them easier to remember. In this case \idoLunion.edu\ is the name associated with the IP ad- dress of idol. The DNS (Domain Name Server), is the computer that matches the domain name with the IP Address so that the message can reach the correct computer. Idol is the electronic equivalent of the campus post office. It receives stu- dent em(li!, which is then sorted and .sent to the appropriate user. As a student at Union College, you receive a complementary ac- count on ido.l, which you may use to receive email. Jd()l is a POP3 (Post Office Protocol, version 3) server, which means that it runs a program that allows it to manage email through a suite of protocols. A \protocol\ is a set of rules that define how two computers can talk to each other. Yowcannot run that program on your computer which is Why you are not able to receive mail directly; it must go through idol first. To go through idol, you must log-on to your account. There are many methods to achieve this, but the most common is via telnet or through the terminals scattered around campus. Telnet is a pro- gram that runs on many types of computers (PC, _App·le, UNIX, etc.) that allows you to connect to another computer (as long as yQu have an account on that computer) and use it as if you were sitting in front of it. In order to access your email on idol, you need a program that can retrieve your mail in a readable format. Ifyou log onto idol, you use pine to read your emaiL Pine is a program that runs on idol. Your email is· stored on idol . as one huge file. Pine allows you to view this file in a much more manageable and useable fonnat. It also allows you t() respond to spe· cific messages, c()mpose new ones, and many other options. The biggest drawback to using pine is that it is completely text based. In this era of multimedia and Graphical User Interfaces (GUI, pronounced: gooey} we should not have to settle for this. Enter Eudora. If you have a ResNet connection (if not, see last week's article), then you have the ability to use Eudora to view your mail messages from your room. Eudora runs op. your computer:. It connects to idol and sends the mail fr?m idol to your computer. It then provides the same service as .pine did (i.e. present the messages in a readable format). However, Eudora has the added functional- ity of a graphical interface, There are toolbai'S, menus, ~d windows, similar to a word processor. · You havlil the choice ot; using telnet or Eudora to access your mail from your room. Y o,r would use telnetifyou were using some- one else's computer since Eudora must be configured (by following the instructions on the web page specified at the end of your packet) to. a specific email account. If you are using your own com- puter, Eudora is the preferred method for reading your e-mail, since it provides additional fea- tures and a more intuitive inter,.. face. When configuring Eudora you wiH need to know what y(;)ur SMTP and POP servers-are. SMTP stands for Simple Mail Transfer Protoc()l. The S¥TP server sends . outgoing mail to its destination. Your SMTP server · is - ''rnaiLunion.edu. ~· When you send a message from· your computer, it goesto mail.union.edu where the message's destination is deter• mined, and it is. tl1en sent on its way. · As aPOP server, idol allows you _to retrieve your mail vi~ Eudora. Your POP ' aceO.~nt is ''usemame@idol.union.edu 1 ~·(your email address). These' are the es- sential things yO'u need to config- ure Eudora properly. The remain- ing optionsallo.w you to personal- ize YQUf emaiHng experience. Email is a very powerful, cheap, and fastmeans of communication .. If you wer.e in Europe and had ac- cess to a computer on the Internet, you could still check your email on idol, using telnet, back in Schenectady, NY. Try getting the Postal Service t() provide that! Alcohol and Hospital ~rips Rampant For Freshmen by Victoria Hargreaves S&TWriter it's Friday night. Classes are over for the week. No cares~ No worries. The objective: to party. You go to a fraternity party where you drink two beers. No problem. You have a high to Ierance and are off to the next party. Your shy roommate tags along. She has never had a drink before in her life, but she wants to see what \college life\ is really like. She also has two beers. She laughs and·loosens up. You've never seen her like this before. She likes her new personality and moves onto hard liquor, first gin, then vodka. Three hours later, you decide to return to tfie dorm. After fifteen minutes of frantic searching, you finally discover your roommate slumped over in the corner of a filthy, beer bottle- ridden basement. Obviously she didn't know that drinking Jiqour after beer can cause a great deal of sickness and discomfort. She has passed out. She is cov- ered in sweat and starting to tum purple. She breathes with great troulJle. You shake her vigorously and call her name to no avail. What do you do? Unfortunately, more and more college students are facing this di- lemma. As of October 8, 1997, six Union students had been trans- ported to the hospital as a result of \excessive drinking and drug use,\ reports Dean Alford. However, al- cohol abuse is n<>t limited to Union's campus. Alford warned students, \ .. .in Massachusetts alone, two students died of acute alcobol poisoning and another fell to his death while intoxicated.\ Rather than partici• pating in \hazing or initiation rituals,\ \the stu- dents sim- ply drank too much,\ states Los Angeles Times re- porter Elizabeth Mehren (\Deaths force US colleges to examine underage b i n g e drinking\). After re- movingthe MIT student from life support three days after admittance, doc- tors reported his blood alcohol level to be .41 0. Meltren describes this level as, \the equivalent of gulping 20 shots of alcohol. in one hour.\ A University of Massachusetts student died after accidentally faU- ing through the roof of a green- house while drunk .. A 17 ~ year old high school se- · nior recently died 'as .a resuft of al- cohol abuse as well. Thinking their friend was asleep, ber friends failed to seek medical attention and, as a result, the girl slipped into a coma. She never left this coma- tose state .. In a study for the, Journal of American Medicine in 19-94, Wechsler coined the term \binge drinking.\ He defined \binge drinking\ as \five or more sequen- tial drinks for men, and four or more for women\ (\Death.s force US colleges to examine underage binge drink:ing\). In 1994, Wechsler found that 44% of college drinkers hinged while 86% of fraternity brothers binged. A year l~ter, the Massa- chusetts Department of Public Health conducted a similar survey using Wechsler's methods and dis- covered that drinking was rampant in higil schools in Massachusetts as well. This sur- vey con- cluded that . 38.7% of Massa- chusetts's male high school stu~ dents and -28% of fe- male stu- dents were· binge drink- ers. The Of- free of Health Pro- motion of- fers its own gri~ anec- dote on alco· • hol poison- ing:· .. The person drinks too much, too fast, perhaps gulping, chugging, bonging, or shot- gunning numer· ous drinks. He or· she passes out. Caring and well- meaning people may putthpir friend in bed ·or leave hint or her to sleep it off. Later, when the party guests check back, the brutal reality hits. Their friend never will wake up again .. \ Typical college parties whichconsistofweekend binging are \the perfect set up for alcohol poisoning.\ Typical symptcrns of a victim of alcohol poisoning include: notre- sponding to a touch or call, an in .. ability to stand,. abnormal breath- ing, \purpl isl!\ skin tone, \clammy\ skin. increased pulse rate, and irregular heart beat. On a biological level, alcohol depresses the body's central ner- vous system. It impairs a person's reactions, judgement, impulses, and coordination. · When a person has alcohol poi- soning, \the alcohol level is so high that the sleep ·center in the brain bec_Qmes depressed and breathing stops. Because \medical distress\ can occur an hour ormore after drink- ing;one must never leave a highly intoxicated petson unsupervised to _ \sleep off' the alcohol. \Death by asphyxiation occurs when alcohol depresses the body's · reflexes to the point that the per- son- can't vomit properly.\ To pre- venr vomit from becoming lodged in the .esophagus, the victim should be placed on his side .. . The Office of Health Promotion compels those -who fear a friend has fallen victim to alcobol poison- ing, \Your friend made the choice to get intoxicated and now is un- able to make a decision about what is good for him/ her .. You have a choice to act and call for help or to live with the guilt if your friend dies or suffers brain damage.\ I

Adn.•rtiscmcnts · · · . TI:l?t' <!lnnroroh•n5ts • October 16, 1997 • Page·-15 ·-' ('1 . ~ . Come be t.he firestarter, the punkin' instigator Saturday 10:00pm · Old ··chapel

Page 16 • October 16, 1997 • ij]u.• ([l1ltn1roirnsis - _ -.Exams ' ~ ' ' ---.-'~Fall Term Exam Schedule Ask Your Professor or The Registrar's Office If You Have Any Further Questions MONDAY. NOVEMBER 17 1 1997-9:30-11:30 AM WEDNESDAY. NOVEMBER 19 1 1997 •9:30-11:3.0.AM ANT*010*01 Cultural Anthropology Gmelch,S. ARTS109 IMP*011*0-1 lntMath/Physics 1 w/Lab Batt>anei/Reich NWSE112 810'024*01 Genetics w/Lab Boyer/Lfluzon SSCI 016 IMP*01'1.*02 lntMath/Physics 1 w/Lab Barl>anei/Reich NWSE114 810\046*01 lntro to Psychobiology . Weisse, C. BAIL 300 ~Tt1*010:\01 Calculus 1 Taylor, A. HUMN11S 810\180*01 Biochemistry Salvo/Fox BAIL 201 ~TH:-\010:\02' Calculus 1 Sick, T. BUTR~OO CER*035*01 Water Resources & Environment Snow, P. BUTR300 ~Tti*010*03 Calculus1 Taylor, A. HUMN115 CHN*120*01 Intermediate Chinese 1 Feng, J.P SSCI213 ~TH*Ot0*04 Calculus1 Fairchild, W. BAIL 1().0 CLS*021*01 History of Greece Loomis, W. HUMN115 M!TW\010*05 Calculus 1 Reynolds, P. ARTS 109 GLS*035*01 Greek & Roman Historiography Meckler, M~ HUMN115 MTH*010\06 Calculus 1 Reynolds,E ARTS 109 EER*018*01 Digital Computers w/Lab Traver, G. BAIL106 MTH*013*01 APCalculus Cervone, D. HUMN117 ESC*021*01 Mechanics 1 w/Lab Bucineii,R NWSE 2()5 MfH*013*02 APCalculus Cervone, D. HUMN1.17 HST*013*01 History of US to Civil War Miller,A.T. SSCI112 MltH*013*03 AP Calculus Johnson, B.. BAil2()1 HST*013*02 History of US to Civil War Sterngass, J. HUMN11~7 MfH*Ot3\!04 AP Calculus Johnson, B. BAil2()1 HST*013*03 History of US to Civil War Meade, T. ART$215 MTH*01'5*02 Calculus 3 Zulli,L BUTR t09 HST*035*01 History of Europe 1 Hansen, E. SSCI103 MTH*015*03 Calculus 3 _ Zi.dli,L. BUTR t09 HST*035*02 History of Europe 1 Sargent, S. SSCI104 MTW058*01 Appls of Math to Eco 1 Rosenthal, K. 8Ail2(;7 HST*035*03 History of Europe 1 Halliday,P. COLC MfH*058*02 Appls of Math to Eco 1 Rosenthal, K. BAIL2fl7 HST*151*01 Nazi Germany Walker, M. HUMN 014 MTH*099*01 .lntro:logic & Set Theory Hart, J. BAIL106 JPN*130*01 Advanced Intermediate Japanese Khan, Y. SSGI014 M:fH*099~02 lntro:Logic & Set Theory Hart, J, BAIL 1016 MTH*017~01 Calculus IV: Integral Vector Fairchild, W. BAIL207 PSY*025~01 Experimental Psychology w/Lab Bums, D. J.. BAIL3DO MTH*017E*01 Calculus IV: Engineers Z:wicker, W. BAIL 104 / PHY*045*01 Solar System w/Lab Marr, J.M. NWSE 114 'IVEDNESDA.Y 1 NOVEMBER 19 1 1997 ~ 1:30•3:30 PM PHY~160*01 Physical Optics w/Lab Maleki, s. NWSE303 CHM.010*01 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab Scaife, C. BUlR204 PSY*030*01 Personality Donaldson, G. BAIL 100 CHM*010*02 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab Hagerman, M. ~UTR204 PSY*038*01 Developmental Psychology Stanhope, L. BAIL312 CHM~010*03 Fund Chemistry 1 w/L.ab Ar!derson, J. BUTR204 PSY*046~01 lntro to Psychobiology Weisse, G. BAIL 300 CHM*010*04- Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab Lou, K. BUTR204 CHM*030*01 Organic Chern 1 w/Lab Adrian, J. SSCI 016 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17 1 1997-1:30-3:30 PM CHM*030*02 Organic Chern 1 w/Lab Hull, L. SSCI 016 ANP010\02 Cultural Anthropology Gmelch, S. SSCI112 twffH*1'19*01 Topics in Discrete Mathematics Taylor, A. BAIL 104 CHN*010*01 Basic Chinese 1 Feng, J.P HUMN 113 PHY*020~01 GeneraiPhysics 4 w/Lab Khosropour, R. NWSE 328 EC0*033*01 Public Policy & Amer Industry Klein, D. HUMN014 EGL *044.*01 Enlightenment & Romanticism Heinegg, P. HUMN 112 ~EDNESDAY I NOVEMBER 19. 1997- 7:00-9:00 PM ESC*020*01 Mechanics 2 King, F. BUTR Hl9 EGL\'022-02 Major American Authors Slacie, L. HUMN 112 ESC*025*01 Electric Circuits w/Lab Chang, Y. NWSE 114 FRN*131*01 Survey of French Literature 1 Curran, A. HUMN 2.1:J THURSDAY 3 NOVEMBER 20 1 1997 -9:30-11:30AM GE0*022*01 Geomorphology/Surficial Geo Rodbell, D .. BUTR 2fj1 MH*025*01 17 & 18CEuropeanArt · Eyerman, C. ARTS215 GER*120*01 Intermediate German 1 Hamm-Ehsani, K HUMN119 AMU*020*01 Music History & Lit 1 McMullen, D. AR!S313 GER*121*01 Intermediate German 2 Hamm-Ehsani, K HUMN11!l 810*144\01 Cytology w/Lab Smith, G. BAIL 100 GRK*010*01 Principles of Greek 1 Mace,S. SSCI105 ·CER*143*01 Foundations & Gonstr w/Lab Ghaly,A. BU1R300 JPW010*01 Basic Japanese 1 Khan, Y. HUMN 11El EC0*012*01 Introduction to Economics Fried, H. HUMN 114 MER*030*01 Dynamics of Systems w/Lab .Rivera, M. NWSE21i() EC0*020*01 lntro.to Statistical Analysis Schmidt, S. HUMN 019 PHY*014*01 Atoms, Lasers, Quasars Schick,K NWSE30~ EC0*031*01 Microeconomic·Analysis Schmidt, S.J. SSCI1 04 PSC*161*01 Public Opinion & Pol Psych Brown, G. HUMN1D EC0*042*01 Macro Theor}i & Policy Motahar, E. HUMN 014 PSY*01.0*02 lntro to Psychology Stanhope, L. BAIL312 6ER*060*01 System Theory II w/Lab Rudko, M. NWSE 210 PSY*033*02 Psychology of Memory/Thinking Burns, D. J. BAIL 30:0 Esc~ots·o~ Fundament.wof Eng/CS 1 w/Lab Milillo, F. NWSE 110 RUS*010*01 Basic Russian 1 Jordan, B. SSCi012 Esc~o16*02. Fundamentals ofEng/CS 1 w/Lab Snow, P. NWSE 110 SPN*121*01 Intermediate Spanish 2 Camacho, L. BAIL201 ESC~016*03 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 1 w/Lab Williams, G. NWSE 110 SPN*122\01 Advanced Spanish Torres, B. BAIL 10A ESC*016*04 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 1 w/Lab Hassib, E. NWSE 110 SPN\130*01 lntro:Spanish & Spn Amer Lit Martinez, V. HUMN 1Hl GE0*021*01 Strat Dep Env of East NY w/Lab Garver, J. I. BUTR :201 SPN*132*01 Spanish Peninsular Lit 1 I zu rieta, I. HUMN019 PSY*035*01 Industrial/Organization Psych Nydegger, R. BAIL 2()1 SOC*153*01 Soc of Disabled & Handicapped Weiner, T. SSCI110 MONDAY. NOVEMBER 17 1 1997 • 4:30-6:30 PM CSC*010*01 Computers & Computing Almstead, L. BAIL207 1HURSOAY 1 NOVEMBER 20, 1997 ·1:30-3:30 PM CSC*010*02 Computers & Computing Almstead, L. BAIL 207 AAW045*01 Contemporary Altin America Eyerman, C. ARTS:215 CSC*010*51 Computers & Computing Hedrick, J. BAIL20~ ACC\01o•o1 Survey of Accounting Neidermeyer, P. HUMN 014 ATH*020*01 History of Theatre Rose, L. YULM TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 18. 1997 • 9:30-11:30 AM CHM*013*01 AP Chemistry Carroll, M. BAIL Hl2 AAH*011*01 lntro Art History - 1 l\1atthew, L. ARTS 215 CSC*037*01 Structured Programming Green, E. NWSE 116 AMU*012*01 Language of Music 1\tlcMullen, D. ARTS313 EC0*012*02 Introduction to Economics Fried, H. SSCI to4 810*010~02 lntro to Biology 1 w/Lab Brown, G. SSCI 010. EC0*031*02 Microeconomic Analysis Schmidt, S.J. HUMN.115 BI0*053*01 Northeast Forests w/Lab Tobiessen, P. S.WSE3l2 EC0*144*01 International Economics Motahar, E. SAIL 100 BI0*066*01 Darwin's Legacy w/Lab 1\!linorsky, P. STZH 106 {lfv11*144*51 International Economics Motahar, E. BAIL 100 BI0*162*01 Neurobiology w/Lab Olberg,R BUTR 30() PHL*014*01 Introduction to Ethics Baker, R. HUM~ 114 CER*128*01 Structural Analysis Mafi, M. BUTR 10~ PHL*070*01 History & Phil of Modern Sci Ludwig, J .. SSCI213 CHM\142*01 Chern Instrumentation w/Lab Wernet, T. STZH 108 PSC*049*01 Middle East Politics Lobe, T. SSCI103 GLS*026*01 Classical Literature 1oher, M. SSCI 01+ P$Y*010*03 lntro to Psychology Spring, D. BAIL201 EGL *036A *01 African-American Lit I Pavlic, E. HUMN 1.t5 PSY*049*01 Psychology of Addiction Dowling, T. BAIL~12 GE0*010*01 Physical Geology w/Lab l-lollocher, K. BUTR201 GRK*120*01 Attic Prose Toher, M. SSCI 014, FRIDAY. NOVEMBER21, 1997-9:30-11:30 AM HST*072*01 Early Jewish History Berk, S. COLC .AMU*031*01 Music of Black America Olsen, T. ARTS 215 HST*086*01 The Nuclear Age Walker/Shanebr()ok HUMN 014 ANT*016*01 Prehistory Walker, M. HUMt-1014 LAT*010*01 Prir1ciples of Latin 1 Scullion, J.S SSCI 012 810*067*01 Bio:Health & Fitness w/Lab Crawford, A BAIL 100 MER\040\01 Engineering Design 1 w/Lab Blinn,M. NWSE 210 . EC0*012*03 Introduction to Economics McCarty, T. SSCI016 PHL*011*01 History Western Philosophy 1 Patrik, L. HUMN 117 EC0*012*04 Introduction to Economics McCarty, T. SSGI016 PHY*015*01 Physics/Life Sciences 1 w/Lab Topor, N. NWSE 1.14 EGL*039*01 European Novel in Translation Heinegg, P. HUM!\1115 PHY*016*02 Physics/Life Sciences 2 w/Lab Newman, J. NWSE 116 FRN*012*01 Basic French 3 Dogbe, C. HUM!il114 PSC*013*01 lntro to Political Thought Marso, L. SSCI1()3 GER*139*01 German Exile Lit Kellenter, S. HUM~ 119 PSY*010*01 lntro to Psychology Marting, B. BAIL 312 G~R*149*01 Das deutsche Exile Kellenter, S. HUMN 119 SOG*010*02 lnlro to Sociology Cotter, D. SSCI112 HEB*01 0\01 Basic Hebrew 1 Almog, M. HUMI\1116 SPN*120*01 lr1termediate Spanish 1 Moyano, P. HUMN 110 HST*012*01 Prehistory: Walker, M. HUMt-J 014 SPN*120\03 Intermediate Spanish 1 lzurietai I. HUMN 01~ HST*018*01 ProgressivetEra & World War I Henry, 8. BAIL201 SPN*149*01 Lit of Hispanic Caribbean Garcia,W. HUMN 112 HST*022*01 Civil War & Reconstruction Dudden, F. SSCI103 JPN*120*01 Intermediate Japanese 1 Khan, Y. HUMt-1113 TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 18 1 1997 -1:30·3:30 PM PtiY*048*01 Intelligent life in Universe Schick, K. NWSE 114 BI0*010*01 Intra fo Biology 1 w/Lab Tobiessen, P. SSCI 01.6 PSC*082*01 Health Politics & Policy Weiner, T. HUMN 117 BI0*032*01 Comp Vertebrate Anatomy w/Lab Butterstein, G BAIL 201 SOC*060*01 Quantitative Social Research Cotter, D. HUMN019 CER*160*01 Transportation Engg w/Lab Wolfe, F.A. .BUTR 1()9 · EC0*032\01 Labor & Industrial Relations Prosper, P. SSCI103 FRIDAY. NOVEMBER21 1 1997 • t30-3:30 PM .ARTS 215 EC0*145*01 Managerial Economics Kenney, J. SSCI110 AAH*026.*01 History of Architecture Matthew, L EER*063*01 Desgn of Electronic Cite w/Lab Hassib, E. NWSE 21() CER*147*01 Mgmt of Constr Project w/Lab Laplante,. C. HUMN 014 EGL*024*01 Modem American lit .Pavlic, E. HUMN 11~ EC0*063*01 Economics of Health Lambrinos, J. BAIL 100 FRN*010*0t Basic French 1 Scheuer, A. HUMN 11T EER.124*01 lntro toProbabUistic Syst~ms . Spinelli, J. STZH 108 FRN*120*01 Intermediate French 1 Dogbe,C. SSCI ()14 EGL *019\01 Major English Au\hors 1 . Hilles, C. HUMN 116 FRN*120*02 Intermediate French 1 Curran, A. SSCI ()10 EGL*056*01 Shakespeare after 1600 Jenkins, H. HUMN.114 GER*010*01 Basic German 1 Hamm•Ehsani, K SSCI112 ESC*021*02 Mechanics 1 w/Lab Keat,W.D. NWSE205 GER*010*02 Basic German 1 Hamm-Ehsani, K. SSCI112 HST*112\01 American Labor History He11ry, s. SSCI103 GER*012*01 Basic German 3 Giguere, U. SSCI012 LAT*130*0f Catullus & Horace Meckler, M. HUMN213 HST*043\01 Europe in the Early Modem Era Hansen, E. SSCI104 PHL*046*01 Art, Media and Society Patrik, L. HUMN019 MER*026*01 Thermodynamics Wilk,R NWSE 2:1~ PHY*017*01 General Physics 1 Jones, C. NWSE 112 PSY*020*01 Statistical Methods/Psychology Greenberg, S. BAIL 3()0 PHY*017*02 General Physics 1 Maleki, s. NWSE 114 PSY*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL312 PHY'\017*03 General Physics 1 w/Lab Rodriguez, G. NWSE300 PSY*034*01 Psychology of Language DAndrea, T. BAIL 1()6 PSY*024*02 Social Psychology Mo~ing, B. BAIL:JOO SOC*024*01 S<Jcial Psychology DeBono, K BAIL 312 PSY*031\'01 Abnormal Psychology Donaldson, G. BAIL312 SPN*010*02 Basic Spanish 1 Garcia, W. HUMN 11Z SOC*024*()2 Social Psychology Morling, !3. BAIL300 SPN*012*01 Basic Spanish 3 Camacho, L. HUMN 114 SPN*122*02 Advanced Spanish Martinez, V. MUMN 110 SPN*120*02 Intermediate Spanish 1 Moyano, P. HUMN 115 j ser ten due the thi: in~ sot due wa ian sci pi~ Eli ser CQJ fin do Ri sta tio dit Ot th~ av m; sa: ter ca w E; at A er u fe th tic te m D e' Sl in m fc tr tt 0 tt al f( ti ir it p e E a li c tc

.... Arts & Entcrtainn1cnt . · . . . <LlF (Lhnu:urbims.i!ii \ Oc:tobcr 16, 1997 ~ Page 17 Spotlight, on Rilling: Rediscovering an Acting Career by Kim.Rohbeck A & EEditor Amy E. Rilling, starting off her senior year as the star of this term's iheater Department :Pro- duction of The Seagull, is one of the best and the brightest talents. th·is school has to offer. Her act- ing ·career at Union began her sophomore year (1995) in a .pro- duction of God Oelivers,The show was directed by Professor Will- iam Finlay, as acelebrationofthe school's Bicentennial, Rill'ing played Sarfth Nott, the wUe of Eiiphalet Nott. ''It was an en- semble piece, and not very- time consuming, but it helped me reaf· firm that this was what I wanted to do.\ Winter term .of that year was Rilling's biggest role ever. She starred in a Mountepank' s produc- tion of Six Degrees of Separation directed by Fred Ulrich '98~ as Ouisa. \lt was a great show •.. theater that Uni9n hadn't seen in a while, and Six Oegr~esconfin::ned my self-confidence as an actress,\ says Rilling .. Her next major piece was spring term of '96. \This is the one that m~de me. famous.\ Rilling played Nicole, the \bimbo\ ofthe show. The part was very d¢manding both ppysically and mentally. She described the rehearsal process as \craz;y.\ Even Treplev (Douglas Schneider '98), and upon seeing Trigor.in leaves her young love alone. Rilling says \this partis perfect forme, I com- school has to offer.\ In addition to her work (,}n The Seagull; ~Y will also be work- ing on her senior thesis. Rilling is a Polit-ical Science if the audience . major with a minor only remembered in Performing Arts. Amy in her un~ Considering she is derwear, this also a senior intern show forced her admissions inter- to work hard and viewer,. and a singer it was a tremen- in th:e Garnet dousgmwingex- Minsttelles for the perience. past four years, She took a Rilling's time is be- break from the ing spread thin. Her theaterherjunior thesis is on femi- year, spending a c,.....,.------~_,_,_-~---~--~-~--~~....._,..-..;;J nine performance term abroad in Senior Am,y Rilling on the set of\TheSeagull.\ (Kim Rohback/TC) art and the ob- . .. Floreru;;e, Italy, and Washington DC. When she returned to Union, she auditioned for ThYJ Seagull, ' . under the direction ofv,isiting Pro• fessor Sarah Chazen. Amy was cast as the female lead fn.the show, Nina. She plays a young woman struggling to be an actress, who falls in love with a famous writer, Trigorin(Ari Gottlieb '99). Trigorin is entertained by Nina~s childlike obsession with the theater but eventually loses interest. She re- turns to visit the man whom she adored since they first met, _ ph;:tely relatetoher.\ Playing Nina will be a challenge because of her extreme growth throughout the play.. Nina starts as a naive child and grows into a tough young woman. Rilling is thrilled with the. cast and the director. \I think that Sa- rah is just what this school needed, especially for the women interested in the Performing Arts. She is enthusiastic and breathes new life into the Yulm.an Theater. Rilling describes the cast as \all ofthe top actors and actresses this scene. This topic allows Rilling to :allow both the feminist theory of her Political Science studies and the theater that she loves. She has traveled to New York City to see the much acclaimed Karen Finley in Th(! American Chestnut. This particular piece addressed pressing issues in a dark, yet co- medic fashion. \These artists are both demystifying women's bodies and portraying the feminist ideal,\ says Rilling ofher research. After graduation, Rilling plans to attend either graduate school or a Conservatory. She definitely sees an MFA in her future. Her ide- a:ls include Yale or New York Uni- versity, \It would be so great to be in New York or California.\ She is both sad and excited about graduation. \It will be so great just to concentrate on my acting . For the past three years I have been so spread out!\ 'lhe decision to go into the theater was not an easy one. Her parents were pushing a career in politics, but upon returning ftom her tenn in DC, Rilling decided this was not the move for her. \Now is the time in _ my life to go for my dreams,\ says Rilling. Rilling'~ contributions to theater here at Union are astounding. She is a talented actress and wonder- ful to work with. She sees theater at Union as \on the rise.\ \I think that theater is being more and more embraced by the stu- dents. We have a .great department and a talented body of students. Union has made me realize that I have a passion and that I am good at something.\ Wherever she goes, there is no doubt that she will be successful. Come see her in her senior debut Shakespeare Express Coines to Albany Villella Returns To Perform In Schenectady by Lori Greene A&EEditor Edward Villela, afavodte ofthe Union College Dance department returns to Schenectady with the Miami City Ballet on October22~. by Marin Richardson' Contributing Writer ·- This company, artistically directed by Villell~, continues to astound audiences and critics_ alike. The dynamic ensemble displays the same love of dance, musicality and excitement that made Villella inter- nationally famous. A bit of Shakespeare came to the capital region October 6th and Th with the Shenandoah Shakespeare Express. The drama company perfQrmed at Page Hall at The University at Albany to ar:t enthusiastic audi- · ence, which included a number of Union College students and pro- fessors. The program was sponsored by the Center for Arts and Humani- ties and the Performing Atts Cen- ter. Shenandoah's public perfor- · mances, of A Midsummer Night's . Dream and Henry IV Part I, were excellent opportunities to see the . Shakespeare that we read so often in school and in the manner it was meant to be experienced and per- formed. The comedy and political in- trigue of Henry IV camea:live with. the explosive and energetic .acting of the talented company. More than one audience member was afraid that they would bee() me the focus of the interactive style. The audience's overall satisfac- tion was demonstrated by a s.tand- ing ovation, and the overall qual- ity made the show well worth the price ofthe five-do liar student tick- ets. The Shenandoah Shakespeare Express should be returning to the area some time next year and is likely to consistently pt·ovide ex- cellent and humorous dramatic en· tertainment. Villella, America's most eel-· ebrated male dancer played a key role in popularizing dance and ba.l- letformen. He first joined the New York City Balletin 1957, wherehewasquickly promoted to soloist and then prin- cipal dancer. Perhaps his most fa- mous role was in Balanchine's, Prodigal Son. Villella was the only American ever to be asked to dance an en- core at the Bolshoi Theater in Mos- cow. Among his many honors and · accolades, Villella holds honorary degrees from Sienna College, .. Skidmore College, St. Thomas Uni- . versity, Fordham College and· . Union College which established the Edward Villella Fellowship in 1991 and the first Fellowship awarded in 1996. As a resuit ofhis work with the Miami City Ballet, Villella was in- ducted into he Florida Artists Hall · ofFame in May, 1997, receiving the . · highest and most prestigious. cui .. · tural honor that can be bes.towed upon an individual in the Sta.te of Florida. He has also re((eived the . 38th annualCapezioDance Award; the. Frances Holleman Breathitt Award for excellence, forhis out- standing contribution to the arts . and education of young people. Perhaps the mostprestigiousof his accomplishments will be be- From the play Who Cares? A sceMfrom this blockbusterplay put vn (It the Philip Bermingham Miami City Ballet. stowed in Washington D.C., on December 7th, when he will be awarded the Kennedy Center Honor. Each year recipients are rec- ognized for their lifetime· contribu- tions to American culture through perfonningarts. The primary criterion in the sec- tion process is excellence. The Honors are not designated by art form or category of artistic achieve- m~nt. The selection process, over the years, has provided balance among the various arts and artistic dis_ciplines. Others receiving hon- ors that night are: Lauren Bacall, Bob Dylan, Charlton Heston, and Jessye Norman. President and Mrs. Clinton will greet the five honorees at the White House before th~ gala per- formance at the Kennedy Center where their careers will be cel- ebrated. Villella, who perfonned for President Kennedy at his inaugu- ration, is sure tobe extremely emo- tional througl1out the event. The October 22od show at Proctor's will feature Villela'swork as artistic director as the Miami City ballet perfonns The Big Band SUPERMEGATROID. Theshowis a representation of George Ballanchine's work, one of America's most talented chcreog:- raphers. For ticket information call Proctor's Box Office: 346-6204. You won't want to miss this evening of erttertainmtmt as the Mia111i City Ballet rtlO\ :s you from Big Band Retro to E · :mchine.

• - I _Page 'r~ · •. October 16; 1997 ·~ '&ltr Qlollc~ri)i~nsis . ·. . . · ·· · . Arts & ·Entertainment . . - ' . ' ' ' . . . \At the end of the world, his real journeY begip.s.\ Harrier spends the next !leV en able to see his own faults that these years, learning that there is much twome:n,whohavetraveledcount- more to life than fame and .posses- less miles and avercome death sev'- foreign films. Both Annaud and his movie have been officially banned from China <:lue to themes- sage at the end of the Jn()Vie that reminds us that the Cllinese killed millions ·ofTibetan in their recla- mation ofthe country, Seven Yearsln Tibet Starring Brad P.itt, David Thewlis MAKO, B.D. Wong Directed by Jean Jacques Annaud Music by John Williams Rating: Full Price In autumn 1939, famous Aus- trian mountaineer Heinrich Harrier (Brad Pitt) and his fellow country- man Peter Aufschnaiter (David Thewlis), set out to climb Nanga Parbat, one ofthe highest peaks in the Himalayas. For the Germans who are sponsoring the trip, this is a matter of national pride. Despite having sent numerous expeditions, no Gennan has yet to reach the peak. For Harrier; the trip is an es- cape from an unhappy existence in Austria. What was to be a four- month trek to the summit and back turns into a 14-year sojourn. ''-'·' through India and T·ibet in Mandalay Picture's Seven Years In Tibet. Two days from the summit, the expedition is forced to turn around on account of extremely bad weather. The self-centered Harrier does not want to give up but re- luctantly retreats from the moun- tain. Meanwhile, World War llhas broken out across Europe. The crew members are taken as prison- ers ofwar by British troops in ]n.,. dia. Over the next three years, Har- rier attempts to escape by himself four times to no avail. It is when he swallows his pride andbecornes a part of A ufschnaiter' s daring es- cape that he finds freedom; yet as soon as he is free from danger, he leaves the group and journeys on his own. Days later he is <lnce again j<lined by Aufschnaiter,and together they embarkon a harr.()w- ing two-year journey through the Himalayas to the mysterious Ti- betan city ofLhasa. It is there that sions. Brad Pitt portrays Heinrich Har- rier, whose is obsessed with ob- taining fame and glory. His self- centered attitude is noted at the be- ginning of the film, as he leaves his pregnant wife for the ascentof Nanga Parbat. A stranger in a strange land that few westerners have ever visited, Harrier is be- friended by the young Dalai Lama~ Harrier becomes the religious leader's tutor in English, geogra- phy, and the ways of the western warld. The Dalai Lama instructs Harrier in the simplistic ways of Buddhism. While surrounded by fame and glory in his native coun- try, Harrierfeltunfulfilled. Only by traveling to the end of the world dees he gain a greater understand~ ingoflife. David Thewlis plays Peter· Aufschnaiter; the reluctant com- panion and friend of Harrier. Aufschnaiter and Harrier have clashing personalities, and conflict betweeh them erupts throughout the film .. It is only wh~n Har:rier is Ftesent.S'. \···f~Yf.\ by Lori Gre~lle A &EEdiiof: Page-Turner o(th~ Week ' ···~ . l ., . This Weeks Source is Peo.ple Magazine BuddhitKiss by Peter Task:er · . Something is rotten in Totyg,and it has nothing to d9 with tll~ ~$hi. At 1east that's what .private eye Kazu~·Mori comes to .Spspect~as .. the: rriy~t~Hou$ .Ciea.tll. · of a friend's ·daughter launche!rhim· on a serpentine: trail of ·corruption· thatdoUld lead to,'1he· hign~~tlevel~ :9f'~jp~~s~ :s9~iey~~I~jl doesn;~~j~i~t:,'~im :~r~t. · · ,\: · . •··. Se~14I'ith~s a,n~1,ystRichi.y'd .. MitcheU Js ~~~tigtp ha:v¢ simit#;~uspt~iqri~; Pressed o:Ybis boss to·write.a glowing recommetida:tion of'. aseemlng(y lackluster. trading company;: the young Briton begin~ fqjhvestig~te. What he discovers is ~cary indeed, drawing him-and.fvf<ir~:. withwhOlJ1 h~· wiilcrciss p~ths~:inexorably closer to a sinister religiotJ.S cult and its underwodd all~es. With a plot that barrels along faster than a bullet train, this thriller is even more of a: killer than Tasker's fiction debut,· Silent thunder. Especially strong is · · · • · · ·f. · ··. ' ·· t:- . ·.· ' ••·· · :c. t1 'If · · · · · ' ; ·•··. < ,c:' ·a• 1 ·. · · . ·· his portrait o .a:soc:tety he l;l~.kitown\\~· .::.J:·,Y~W!'$:a5~l'~QP #~9 .t'.~,y$1:, ~y~r speeding·tow~ni tJt~.t\ltur~,,~~·~~~~ll~:'tP:.~~~~.~P~9t~q.~9 .. ~~ ~ld.so~l~, ·' ·.· .. · . A&E wo~tdfttsOii!EtO~ft\i~.~i}~;~~?f;ci,h\~;,~6 ~'lt. ··.·· • this week, John Cusack who turns 35; Kirk Cameron who turns 27, and Luciano Pavarotti who turns 62 this week. *If you want to see your name on this page, write a bunch of words about a show you saw, a book you read, or a picture you drew and get it to kim or Lori in tne Concordy office by 3:00 PM on Sunday!! Come join the coolest staff around! ''Cuz we're da bornb\ (in the words of Frank Rossi, Editor-In-Chief). r Edilor's N(Jte: While they are the bomb, I have been misquoted. Severe reprimands shall follow!) era:J times, may finally become friends. · Pitt delivers a petentially award- winning perfonnance as Heinrich Harrier, with an equally good Aus- trian accent .. Pitt is able to portray the egotistically self.:,centered. Aus- trian so weB that you almost want to hit him. This role ranks up with the characters he has played in Twdve Monkeys, Seven and In- terview With The Vampire. David Thewlis returns to the big screen for the first time since the box of- fice failure Island of Dr. Moreau. Other notable films under Thew lis' belt are Dragonheart and James andthe Giant Peach (voice of the Earth Worm). Seven Years in Tib(2t also stars B. D. Wong, who played Dr. Wu in Stephen Speilberg's blockbuster Jurassic Park, and MAKO, who made appearances in the Conan series. Seven Years in Tibet is a bio- graphicaldrama based on Heinrich Harrier's book about his sojourn. It is directed by Jean Jacques Annaud, who is known for several While the film falls silort in at- temptfugto deal withthe·mnercon~ tlict oftfarrier, it succeeds in its cin- ¢matography. This. film is filled with breathtaking scenery. There are panoramic views .of the Himalayas and ofthe surrounding ·lands. ..These shots are 'Coupled with the musical score by John Williams (Star Wars, Jurassic Park). There.are even violin so- losbyYo-YoMa. Seven Years. in Tibet is the first movie that we were not in complete agreement on. I felt that the cin- ematography and the a.ctittg made this fi.Jm great. Geoff, While appre- ciating this as well, was eX:pecting amuch more.emotioJ'}a:lly riveting drama, along the lines ()f Dances with Wolves. Nonetheless; we-give this film the rating ofFull Price. It runs two hours and 2G minutes, so make sure to utilize the rest-room before sitting down. Cheap Culture by Kim Kilby and Roger Noyes Contributing Writers Despite the perception that culture for Union students is lacking, we have found that the Capital Region is, in fact, host to many cultural opportunities. We experienced one such activity this past Saturday evening, when we attended a performance of the Albany Symphony ·Orchestra at the Palace Theater in Albany. The ASO, C()nducted by David Alan Miller, performed an admirable program of music from the early Romanticism of Mendelssohn to the premiere of an ()riginal com- position by contemporary composer John Fitz Rogers. Thec()ncertalso featured 12-year-old Yura Lee in a compelling performance as solo vio- linist in the Violin Concerto in E Major, Op. 64. Lee captivated the audi- ence with the passion and skill that one would expect from an accom- plished violinist many years her senior. Overall, the concert proved to be an enjoyable alternative to the typical weekend activities at Union College. Besides the beautiful music, the best part about the C()ncert was the price. A student with valid college ID can purchase a ticket one hour prior to the show for $6.00, whereas the regular ticket prices range fram $14-35. We implore you to consider taking advantage ofthisgreat deal, which is only available to college students. The next ASO ~oncert is. scheduled for 8 PM on Friday, November 21 at the Troy Sav~ngs Bank Music Hall. In this particularconcert, the symphony will be perforining selections from the repertoires of Gould and Dvorak. Arrive anytime after 7 PM to purchase a $6.00 seat and enjoy an inexpensive evening of classical music. 1549 Carrie St. (1 Block- From Union College) I L SJ VI it S4 tl a tl c r t

I Arts & Entertainment · · . _ . ·mtp' QJ,.n,cnroicn~is • October 16, 1997 • _Page 19. · Po_rtraits of Artists as Young Women by Kimberly Robback - A&E EditQr sculpturelhavenoideawherel'm Glucl<'s r.ole model in the art _going, Taking; so many level-on~ world is Annie Leibovitz. The · courses, whatmedia I'm really in- famed black and white ph()togra- . Yulman Transfo-rmed Into Nig_ht of Cocktails ''The·few, the proud, the artist~. terestedittisyvhatconcerns.methe pherhasdonealotofworkf()rRoll- · ~~~~~--~~--­ b.Y Kim.Rohback A&E Editor Union College is blessed with a most right now,\ says G li.Jck. ing Stone Magazine. Gh..1c;k par- . srnirll but talented group of artists .For the future,\~ can ~ee myself ticularly admires her wmk with • who practice photography, drawq as a photogTI:lpher for National Mick Jagger. \Her photos are wild : ing, painting, and - · and crazy,\she · This Saturday and Sunday, Oc- sculpting. _Among says. · tober 18th and 191h,the Actor 1 s Stu- the mo~t talented·_ \I think that dio-ofthe YultnanTheaterwitl be and ambitious of • e v e r y o n e transformed into the home of a these students. is should take an ' cocktail party. The audience will sop_hotnore Josie art class. It's a be invited inte the lobby of the Gluck. • lot of work and Yulman at 7:30 PM for cocktails. Josie has been pressure ... it's The show will begin at 8:00PM working diligently not a stacker with a scene directed by Sara Fried- on .her photogra- class like most man '98. phy since high . peQp le t-hink. The next performanc.e will beT. scho.QL ''My You learn a lot · S. Eliot's A Cocktail Party. The photo teacher in about yourself entire first act will be performed by high .school W(ls and I think · two separate casts. The first scene, so amazing. I have • · thaf s irnpor- under the direction of Jennifer neverbeensoiQw • tant.\ This is · Roberts '00, stars a cast of Lori down an,d been -.-,·u,,_-,., . .,, ·the sarne atti- Greene '00, Michael Winn '00, brought so up as- -tudeaclopted by Allison Evans '98, Nick an artist,\ says many ofthestu- Kammerman '99,Maura Whittbold : Gluck Here at \'~ dents taking art '01, Chris Welch '00, Kimberly Union , she has classes. Ari . Rohback '00, Alex Beckers '98, and talcen Pheto .1, · Gottlieb \99 de- . Jessica Chappell '00. Photo II, and cided to take The play is based on the story Drawing and ,._~.J~o-s-i.t!~G-l-uc_k_h_a_$_a_ia-l-en~t-in-art-. -(K.-i~m~R~o-h-b\\\ac-k/T.~- ~'h-e_C_o~n-co_r,_di-et-,s~is-~___,· Drawillg and of Edward, played by Mike Winn, Painting I. She is Paintingljustto who's wife, Lavinia, played by currently enroBed in ,sculpture I. Geographic.\ Gluck's love ofthe see what an art class was like: \It is Maura Whittbold, h~just left him. Her'latest work includes a card• great .outdoors has inspired .so really interesting but I was very The old wernan, Julia, played by board sculpture recently on display much of her work, that any of her sutprised by the amount of work Lori Greene, tries to figure out why in Jackson's.Gar.den. Some ofher 'career ambitions must be sure to involved in the class. Youbave to Edward is so sullen dt,1ring the photos ·and drawings were shown include it. take it very seriously. The depart- party. He makes up a lie about his at last year's Steinmetz Symposium. Gluck's love for art comes from mentis very small but very strong.\ wife visiting his sick aunt. Her sculpting class is working on a the '~freedomof it.\ Gluck uses her He fools almost everyone at the possible gallery for the end of the art work as a channel for the re- Art at Union has been growing . party exceptCelia, the woman with tertn. lease of frustration. \If I'm ina bad stronger and stronger over the · whom he has been having an af- In terms of her art, sh:e says, mood I can always go take pictures. years. With the help of students fair. Edward waits patiently for all \When I came here I saw myself It's a release of tension. A way to and the faculty, the program will of the guests to leave his house so doing photography, but now that deal with stress, especially since continue to,help the cultivation of he can wallow in self-pity. As the I've been takin d'rawing and I'm trying to quit smoking.\ the Fine Arts at Union. guests leave, Edward starts to feel Renowned Scientific Illustrator Bente King to Visit Union Oct. 23 CBntributed by Union College Arts Department beforecomingtothe United States. Her career, however, began in Ithaca, New York. For many years she free-lanced with various natu- ral science departments atCornell University, where later she held the position of botanical director at the L.H. Bailey flortorium for 15 years. both subtle and glowing C()lors. In recent years she has taught this technique in workshops in both Denmark and the United States. • She has agreed to give this dem- onstration in the afterno()n to the Illustrated Organism class at Union College. .lonely and begs the one ''l.:!niden- tified\ guest, played by Allison Evans~ to stay and talk to him. She tells the mysterious stranger about his relationship with his wife. The guest tells Edward that she will bring Lavinia to him soon. Edward is alone and confused, hut not for long. He is once again interrupted by Julia, Peter,_ and Alex. Alex offers to cook for him, while Peter tells Edward of his love for Celia. The scene ends with Edward as hurt and confused as ever. Scene 2, directed by Lori Greene, is a dream sequence between Celia and Edward in which they face some hard realities about their re- lationship. By the end of the scene, Edward has decided to concentrate his efforts on getting his wife back and Celia resolves to leave. The third scene takes the whole group back to Edward's living room, where Lavinia, as promised, shows up. Lavinia and Edward are left alone, and they try to talk to each other about their marriage. The act ends with ... you' U have to come see. The show is funny, with an ex- tremely talented cast. Admission is free. Mountebanks will provide the \mocktails the refreshments, and the entertainment. Greene describes the night as \a fantastic mix between a party arid a p.erformance. It is a show not to be missed!\ This promises to be an enjoyable evening for all who attend. Scientific illustrator Bente Starcke King will visit Union Col- lege onThursday,October23. She will join the Ulustrated Organism class in the afternoon and then give a slide lecture at 5:00 PM in room 215 of~he Arts building. The slide lecture is hosted by the Biol- ogy Club and the Visual A1is De- partment and is open to the public. She executes scientifically accu- rate pen and ink drawings ofplants for publication in scientific jour- nals and books. She also paints plants. in watercolor, often with lay- ers of colored pencil added. Bente Starcke King has. shown her work extensively, including ex- hibitions at he Solo Gallery in Ithaca, New York; at the Htmt In- stitute at Carnegie Mellon Univer- sity in Pittsburgh; at the Royal Danish Horticulture Society in Copenhagen; and at the Buffalo Muse.um of Science in Buffalo, Buy • Sell· Trade Born in Denmark; Ms .. King re- ceived her bachelor's degree in art and illustration in Copenhagen This is a technique she become fascinated with and has worked on.; as it makes it possible to create _ Spring Break •gs New York. Sell Trips, Earn Cash, & Go Free!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus reps/group organizers. ·Lowest Rates to Jamaica, Mex1c-o, & Flo·rida. . - CaU 1-800-648-4849~ Compact Discs · Tapes · DJ Mix Tapes Video Games· Martial Arts Movies hnports · New & Used Records 377-8382

. . . Page 20 • October 16, 1997 • I~lyr <!Ionr ... a·nil'nsis. · · Advertisements Domino's Pizza 716 State Street Schenectady, NY ·.Union College Specials!! Buy 2 Medium Handtossed Pizzas With 1 Top:ping On Eac·h $9·.99+Tax Buy 1 Large H·andtossed Pla.in Pizza $6.99+Tax Phone: (518)372~4441 Store Ho·urs: ' Mon- Thur 4:30PM-2:OOAM Fri-Sat 11AM-2AM .Sun 11AM-1AM UNION LAUNDRY 561 Nott Street Scben~tady, NY 12308 71 Cents A Wash With Our Token System Free Drying Tuesdays & Thursdays 8arn .. 3pnl +NEW TRIPLE LOAD WASHER.:. A Healthy Investment in Yottr Future Health Cue. Those two words have been the source of much disCU$$ion r~ccndy. Probably because we as a nation know the importance of investing in a h.e:dt)ly future. So do millions of patients who · choose chiropractic as their . . preferred source of health ~are. The d\iroptacti¢ beliefs in fitness,. nutritiont prevention, and natural maintena~ce rnab good $Cnse .. Wellness, you s~e, is the normal stat~ of being. , .New York State govemmtnt . . agrte$. They ha.Y~ reccndy passed · the ln$urance Equality biU that .. mandates insur':lnce coverage for chiropractic care. · · For over 75 ·yeats. New Yolk . Chiropta~tic Ce>llegc bas upheld a · tradition of excelleatcc in ch.iroptacric · higher education. Our combined· traditions. oJd ~nd new. have built tl'tc base from whi(l\ the chiropractic doctors of the l\sture are treated. Choose ·New Ye>rk Chiropnctic · . CoUege. A healthy investment for · · · today and tomorrow.

. ('[.· . . ·· J~ ·music by • · .. ro)ect· ~ : · 13rtng a date~ Bring a friend~ _ all ate welcome/ Semi·Fonnal.Attir<~ Required CHET'S CASH BAR WILL OPEN TO THOSE WHO PRESENT AN ID 9:00pm Friday, October 24 ReamerCampusCenter

i Page. 22 • October 16, 1997 • 'Qr(p; <!Innnw.i:lirusis . · . Sports Fate of Men's Soccer Hinges on-This Week Hectic Schedule Includes Games Against RIT, St .. Lawrence by David Weiner Staff Writer The upcoming week for the Union men's soccer team is the week that will determine the out- come of their season. This is the ~.~,«<~ !\' ~ ii Iii Field Hockey D~isapp·ointed by Stefanie Speanburg Sttlff Writer week this team has been prepar- Union'sD_utc.hwomen came- ing for over the past seven weeks. .,, .,. ~*.t back after two. disappointing .losses Over the next eight-day span, -c '~\ 2.·.~ to Willliams and Springfield with Union will face off against RIT,_ f - a 2-0 victQry against Oneonta. St. Lawrence, Clarkson, and Roch.. The win was secured withinthe ester, the number ten, nine, four, first half, Sue Joyal scored both and one ranks in the region. Ev- goals. The defense maintainedthe ery one ofthose teams is either tied _ , · shutout as gffense displayed skill with or ranked. higher than Union. : · , in· p·as.sin-g: .and tranlsijtion.. S,ue If the Gamet and White have any · .• Joyal and Claire Cu:rtie were hopes of reaching the playoffs, recognized within the league as they will have to put together a • • '>Prayer and Rookie of the Week', string of superior efforts against respectively. high quality teams. ·~, Taking the win with them, the This past week, however, was \'· · _,, .,... , . •· UC field hockey anticipated a quite slow fer the Dutchmen, as ·~ /:': ·''. ·~..,.. . ,.. , .... , great weekend ahead in the games they only had one contest against against ri:val Rochester, and Soccer skills, like these, will be needed as Men's Soccer fau.sJZ tiJiigh week. (Laurie Kir.schner I TC) as~~WkaColl~e~am.~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.n~~n~y~bdWilti~S~ili. Utica has posed problems for a first half, their precise passing, tried to minimize Adamu\s play- . Posting a victory in such a com- Although mentally and number of teams throughout the good communication, and .solid ing time, but it has been (Hoven manding way is exactly what this physically prepared for the rigot:s season, Union handled them quite tcannvork gave them the sense of time and again that Adam u is the team needs going into a week of :of ph!ying both Friday and easily ,dominating from beginning confidence they needed to know team's goal scorer, and thuslle has such importance. · Satttrday, Union's expectations to end. they would score eventually. had to. play, If Union can win the majority · didn't accotmt for the challenge Utica netted the first goal early As the second half commenced, Just a few minutes later, Adamu of these upcoming games, they they encountered with officials .. in the game on a beautiful shot Union's fine play paid off as nettedhissecondgoal oftheg?me, wiH undoubtedly earn a spot in the ·Rochester compensated their skill from short range, but after that, Ibrahim AdamLJ, although troubled and Aaron Saven scored as well post-season. With a lot of hard with physical aggression, a game Union took control and never by a case oftendinitis in his knees, to give Union a 3-1 lead tlut held work and a little hit of luck, by . that the Dutc·hwomen are looked back. Although the team netted his .first of two goals. Due up until the final buzzer, giving Sunday, Union will find them- unaccustomed to, and a style of ~h~ad~a.::b~it~o~f~tr~o~u~b~le::._::~~~i~n ~th~e::._~to~th~i~s ~~· ~-~· ~co~a~c:::h:.:G::u~i~n~n~h~as~_:U::.· n~i~o~n~a~d~e::c~is~iv~e~~,·~~'!):;:_' __ -\'..::s~el~v~e~s ~is~t~he~E~C:.::A!.::c~· ~~~-...-1 play that would not be tolerated by Woments Tennis Successful at UCAA Tournament by Brian Terlinsky StaffWriter This was a very successful week for the Union women's tennis team. On Saturday, Union com- peted in the annual UCAA tour- nament, hosted at William Smith College. After defeating R. P. I. early in the week, 7-2 in matches, Union went into this tournament very confident, as the number-six seed out of the eight teams com- peting. The tournament consisted of eight schools, including Skidmore, Hamilton, University of Roches- ter, St. Lawrence, Union, William Smith, R. P. I. and Clarkson; not surprisingly, Skidmore was the first-seeded team. Each college played three \' ·. rounds of matches against a spe- cific school. Union took on and defeated R. P. I. and William Smith but lost to Hamilton, giving them the fifth seed overall in the tournament. In the first round, Union faced the third-seed Hamilton College and, just as the last time these two teams met, Hamilton commanded the match. Union lost 7-2 in matches. Top-seed sophomore Cassie Lawton (4-6, 6-4, 6-4) and fourth-seed freshmen Annette Grajny (6-3, 6-2) were the lone singles players of Union's to de\ feat any of Hamilton's singles op- ponents. Junior second and third seeds Jen DeLucca a:nd . Courtney Rogers, as well as fifth-seed senior Dawn Tessier and sixth-see.d sophomore Abby Jeffords were a11 defeated--6-3, 6-2; 6-2, 6-2; 6-3, 6-4; and 6-2, 6-3 respectively. \The absence of Jod-i Uiberall and .... - Women's Tennis serving up some big numbers. (FiJI!' Piloto /The Concordiensis) Becky Rubin weakened our play this weekend, because the last time we faced Hamilton, we had them, and it was a much closer match. Also, Hamilton was much more on top of their game then we were,\ Grajny said. The doubles matches were also dominated by Hamilton, as they swept Union in all three matches. Doubles teams of Lawton- DeLucca, Rogers-Grajny and Tessier-Jeffords, all fell to the same score of 8-4. As the second round came into their hands, Union turned around their play, as they crushed the sev- enth-seed R. P. I. 8-l fn matches. All singles matches were won by Union. Wining scores included Lawton (7-6, 6-l), DeLucca (6~4, 6-3), Rogers (6-2, 6-4), Grajny (6-1, 6~ 2), Tessier(6-3, 6-0), and Jeffords (8-3). In the doubles bracket, Union took two out of the three mat-eh es. Teams of Lawton-DeLucc11. and Rogers•Grajny both won easily. 8- 3 and 8-2 respectively. \Everyone played really well, and with the loss of some of our players for the holiday, we- had other players stepping up fo-r the team,\ Lawton said. In the third round, just as in the second,. Union on.ce again con- trolled the play, as they de:feated the fifth-seed William Smith Col- lege. Union won five out of their six singles matches and won all doubles matches, defeating Will- iam Smith 8-1 in matches. Tcp seed Lawton and second :seed DeLucca had no problems, win- ning 6-2, 6-l and 6-0, 6-0 respec- tively. Other winning scores inola.~ded Rogers (6-3, 6-2), Grajny (6-1, 6- 2), and Tessier (6-1, 6-3). The doubles teams, Lawton-DeLucca; Rogers-Grajny, and Tessier- Jeffords, cruised to victory, 8-2, g,.. 3, and 8-6 respectively. Junior Jen DeLucca felt that the tournament was a real success for the team. ''.lt was an exciting and ·fun-filled weekend, despite our early loss to Hamilton in the first round. We foul'ht back hard to defeat R. P. I. and 1 William Smith,\ she said. The final results of the tourna- ment include Skidmore ( 1) , Hamilton (2), University ofRoch· ester{3), St. Lawrence (4), Union (5), William Smith (6), R. P. I. (7), and Clarkson (8). This weekend the Union team will head to Cornell for the Divi- sion III New York State Tourna- ment. local officials .. A Union player was repeatedly attacked by a Rochester player. In the instance ofTanya Capparello's self- defens<;:, the official made a call that would effect the team for the weekend. The offensive · momentum was first interrupted by the expulsion ofCapparello and then again by the unwarranted carding of Sue Joyal. The team rnad.e their best attempts to remain focused in spite of the chaotic atmosphere- heckling spectators, angry coaches, and bleeding players. Less than ~ccute officials can transform field hockey into a game that resembles Rugby. A message to those- that don't understand \all the whistles\: our officials are strict to make field hockey a game of skill and grace not one of brute force. Rochester. beat Union; and won 3-0. Hillary London, sophomore goalkeeper made her-first fietd playing clebut, adding energy to the attack. The qutchwomen ready to take on William Smith, set out to take back that which they deserved. Warm-up ror the team looked promising,. the adjustment to grass came smoothly. Western New York had a conspiracy of field hockey officials, the game was delayed 40 minutes due to a tardy referee. Union's line up was altered to provide a stronger defense- Shoko • Okado moved from midfield to halfback. The defense fended off the aggressive William Smith attack untill tile last four minutes · ofthe half in which they scored 3 goals. The team regained composure at halftime, and set out for an intense attack. Union persevered, aHowing only one goal and making more impact offensively. Defense kept the team in the game.

Sports · ITilp.' <!Iomorbh'nsis • October 16,1997 • Page 23 · Sandy Alontar Jr. drove in the winning run with twe outs ill the bottom of the ninth to give Cleve- land a dramatic 8-7 victory over Baltimore and go up three g;l:nws to one in ~the best of seven ALCS. The Indians hoped to finish offthe O's this past Monday night, with Chad Ogea pitching forCI~veiand and Scott Karnieniecki toeing the rubbing for Baltimore and making liis first post-season start. Back to the dramatics of Alomar, Who was 3-5 on the night with ahomer and four RBI. The Indians went ahead 7-5 on another bizarre pJay at bome<pJate that allowed Cleveland to .score two runs after a wild pitch tluown by lefty relief Arthur Rhodes and an error by catcher Lenny Webster. The Orioles got one back in the seventh on an RBI single by Berroa to ma.ke it a one- mn game. They tied the game off closer Jos~Mesa in the top ofthe ninth when Rafael Palmeiro' s siQgle went off Mesa's leg which enabled Roberto Alomar to score. Thanks to the gutsy perfor- mance ·of starting pitcher Livian Hernandez, the Florida Marlins are on the brink of going to their first World Series: Hernandez was not even in manager Jim Leyland's ro~ tation. at the beg!nning ofthe post• season, 'but pUe to the severe in- jUryofstarter Alex Fernandez and the health of ace Kevin Brown, he was forced to ·pitch. the important game five against the Braves, He responded with a complete game, a 15-strike-outperfon:nance secyr- i_ng a 2-1 victory, which pu.t rlQrida up three games to two in the best of seven NLCS with games six and seven back in At- lanta. Hermuidez, who is only 22 years. old, tied the NLCS re.cord with his 15 K's and limited the sometimes potent offensive attack of the Braves to only three hits. His only major mist~ke was a solo shot hit by right..:fielder Michael Tucker. Game 6 will be back at Tumer Field with Tom Glavine going for the Brave and ace Kevin Brown returning from a bout with the flu to .pitch for the Marlins. The Louisiana State Tigers handed the Florida Gaters their first less. of the season this past Saturday night at D~ath Valley Stadium 28-21. Florida's chance of repeating as national champions suffered a major blow with this· upset loss. They fell from their number~one ranking and.outofthe top five in both the AP polls and the USA TodaylESPN Coaches' ~polL The Gators, balanced and quick..,hitting_ on offense and in- creasingly oppressive on defense, had followed their 1996 champi .. onship with five resounding vic- tories. Then came Death Valley and LSU. Sophomore quarterback Doug Johnson making his sixth start was intercepted four times, twice by corner-back Cedric Donaldson, who· returned one for a touchdown and the other 68 yards. Florida committed another costly' turn.over late in the game, which set up LSU's f,inal score, making it 28-14. Penn State (5-0) survived its frrst real test of the season by defeat- ing Ohio State 31-21 at College Station. The Nittany Lions proved their first four wjns against cup- cakes got them ready for their first Big Ten showdown.. Tailback Curtis En is, who had taken a back se.at to quarterback Mi:ke Mcqueary in the their first four games, had a monstrous game, rushing for 2 I I yards on 23 at- tempts. Enis was at his best in the fourth quarter, rushing for 114 yards, including the game-win- ning, 26-yard touchdown burst. lf Penn State is to win a third national championship under coach Joe Paterno, they have many key games remaining on their sched~ ule against Michigan, Michigan State, and Wisconsin. Michigan head basketball coach Steve Fischer was fired this past weekend; after athletic director Tom Goss decided their philo- sophical differences about the di- rection of the program were too great to overcome. Assistant coach Brian Ellerbe was picked to run the team until a successor is named. Candidates who are re- portedly interested in the job are California coach Ben Braun, Providence coach Pete Gillen, and North Carolina assistant Phil Ford. Goss would like to interview can- didates during the next two weeks and hire a coach before Michigan's season opener against Western Michigan on November 18 . Practice begins Saturday for the NIT champions. The firing happened a day after the results of a seventh-month investigation on Michigan's program . As RPI Rivalry Looms, Dutchmen Search For Respect McKeown Questionable For Saturday's Showdown by Frank Rossi Editot-.in ... Ciiief .. With a six-game winning streak and a four-game streak against RPI <>n the line, the Union. College Fighting Dutchmen will attempt to again retain the Dutchmen Shoes as they visit the Engineers atl:JO PM Saturday. The 3·1 Engineers' only mark was an overtime los~ against Coast Guard to open their season. A victory over an oppo- nent with such a high record is necessary for the Dutchmen, who were shocked by the release ofthe season's first Division IH East Region Poll. \I think that coming into this game, we have to prove what type of team we are, because we are fac- . ing probably out toughest oppo- nent of the year,\ according to se- nior receiver Ryan Smith. Union's struggles in either the first or second half of several foot- ball games this season have possi- bly blurred voters' respect for the Dutchmen, as they were placed sixth in the East Region Poll. At the end ·af the season, the top four teams in the final po.ll will move on to the NCAA playoffs. The _good news for Union is that ~ev­ eral of the top-six teams will face each other in tile next few weeks, aiJowing an undefeated Dutchmen team ample opportunity to jump into a playoff position. First, however, the Dutchmen need to beat their main rival. A c .. cording to each school, the true record of the series differs, but Union leads the series with at least 70 victories to .RPI' s (at most) 20. History means nothing, though, when these teams get-together. Senior defensive end Denton Randolph, who has watched or participated .in the last four victo- ries against RPI, agrees. \It doesn't matter what the records are or who the underdog is, because tb:e game betvveenRPI an<l U1iion is always dose and will always be clos~~\ According to senior offensive guard Rob Harrington, Union's inability to rely on history means that the team needs to be ready for an entire game. \We haven't needed to play a full football game yet. There is ·no way we can play . only a half against RPI and have the same results that we have had. They're a top-quality team.;' If the Dutchmen plan to win this game, they may have to do it with- out junior starting quarterback Tom McKeown. McKeown went down at the end of the first half during the Rochester game after injuring his left MCL.. Since the injury {as of Tuesday), he has taken no snaps and has not partici- pated in any team runs. This means that freshman quarterback JeffFerraro, who has thrown only two passes, both for touchdowns 1 may get the start. Smith is confident, regardless of who the quarterback may be. ''We're definitely a better football team with Tommy as a starter. Ferraro has proved himself, though, and 1 have full confidence in [him]. We have a lot of seni()rs on the offensive side of the b!cll that will push him.'; However, the Dutchmen do have one other quarterback with. starting experience '!,Vailable if they need him on Saturday, and that is Smith. McKeown had re· placed Smith two years ago for a change of pace in the offense be• fore the RPI game. According to Coach John Audino, he considered putting Smith in the game for the second half against Rochester, but opted to give Ferraro a try. \Hav- ing Ryan back there might give us some game experience; but Ryan has really not run our offense in the last two years.\ Union's Streak Audino does not know why Union has had such success over the last four seasons against RPI, but he has some guesses. \l think in every game, RPl could have won each and every game. We've at times been lucky enough to make some big plays. In 1995, Bobby Champlain intercepts a pass. In 1993, Roger Egbert kicks a last-minute. field goaL I feel . lucky to be on the winning end of the last fo\11:' games.\ RPI Coach Joe King contends that luck was not nearly the only thing Union had. \I don't think it has anything to do with luck. I think Union has played better than we had in those four games. Union is a team that doesn't make a lot of mistakes. What happened in the last four years or the last 100 years, though, doesn't matter Saturday.\ IfKing is to break the streak, he must count on sophomore quarter- back Matt Robbens and especially on his back-field. Last season's UCAA Co-Piayerofthe Year, Dan McGovern, has struggled so far this season, gaining only 48.2 yards per game. He has been over- shadowed so far this year by fel- low senior tailback Krishaun Gilmore, who has gained 114.5 yards per game. For McGovern, it is not his per- sonal statistics that matter to him, but simply the wins. \Krishaun and I have been friends since fresh- man year. Just last week, having him there whiie I was hurt made me feel a lot better. I can't wait until I get back so we can compli- ment each other with fresh legs in all ofthe time.\ What are the keys to success? According to Union junior defen- sjve lineman Jim Kochan, ' 1 We just have to play a physical game because it is probably the type of game that will be won on either side of the line. Hopefully, we come out and play our style of football.\ With equal running games, uncertainty in Union's quarterback and special teams' positions, and a strong RPI quar- terback and strong Union defense, this game may come down again to the final two minutes. Weekly Polls As mentioned earlier, Union was placed sixth in the first East Region Poll released 4:00 PM Iylonday. An. interesting note is that the committee's chair is Ply- Football 10118 at RPI1 :30pm (Jayvee -10119 at Albany 1:00pm) mouth State Athletic Director t-----~--------1 Steve Bamford, whose team ap- pears aheadofUnion at fifth. Ply- mouth State, who has one loss against Brockport, faces fourth- place Coast Guard on November Men's Soccer 10/17 at St. Lawrence 4:00pm 10/tB at Clarkson 1:OOpm 1, a week after Union visits Coast 1--------------1 Guard. A top eastern game is Rowan against Cortland this Sat- urday, as .the top two teams in the poll face off for the top spot. Nationally Union looked much Women's Soccer 10/17 at Stlawrence 4:00pm 10/1 B at Clarkson 1:OOpm better, but the national polls are 1---~-----~~---1 merely s.ymbolic. In Don Hansen's College Football Gazette Poll, Union moved up another slot to ninth place, while Union Field Hockey 10/18 at Oswego 2:00pm jumped !WO spots to 14 in the USA 1---------------l III Poll Regardless of the divergence in the polls, Union's next five games will not be easy. The combined reeord of the team's fi£)-al oppo- Volleyball 10/17 (6pm} & 10/18 (9am) at Skidmore Tourney 6:00pm nents is 19-5, with Alfred account- 1-----------------l ing for three ofthose losses. The regional poll, however, suggests that Union must go 9-o·to make the playoffs. Cross Country 10118 at Westfield St. 12:00pm 1) Rowan (New Jersey) 4-0 2) Cortland (New York) 5-0 3) Ithaca (New York) 4-1 4) Coast Guard (Connecticut) 5-0 5) Plymouth State (Massachusetts) 4-1 6) Union (New York) 4-0 (At end of season, top four in each region go to playoffs) -

; : t., Women's Soccer Unable to Beat Top-Five Opponent. Even With William Smith Loss, 7-3 Record Still Raising Eyebro,ws by Geoff Sullivan Sports Editor . Once again, the defense for the Union College Women's Soccer Team was instrumental in the out- come of the team's performance this past week. Last Thursday they helped shut out Hartwick, 2..:0, and on Saturday, the defense uninten- tionally assisted William Smith, who defeated the Dutch women, 2- 0. Against Hartwick, the entire de- fense played magnificent soccer, making the job for sophomore goalkeeper Shannon Powers all the easier. It was the seventh shutout of the season for Powers. Sopho- more sweeper Jaymee Wilson played extremely well as the vo- cal leader on the defensive end for the Dutchwomen. Offensively, it was freshman Missy Matusewicz who put the team on the score- board, as she continued her strong scoring attack. Sophomore Abby Harris found her scoring touch once again and added the secend goal ofthe game ten miputes later. \All in all, it was a good warm up game for William Smith,\ said se- nior tri-captain Liz Kittleman. \The win gave us confidence and momentum heading into the game against the nationally-ranked Tovah Glaser belting the ball en rome to a shutout victoryfor flu Union Dutchwomeli. (Lauri(! J(irschner/l'C) team.\ With a win over a top-five op- ponent, the Dutchwomen would have certainly cracked the polls and be looked at in the national picture. Unfortunately, the team could not rebound from an unfor- tunate mistake and lost to William Smith, 2-0. Playing outstancling &occer in the first half, it was the Dutchwomen who lo()ked to be the ranked team. They c le:arly domi- nated the play, producing .many more scoring opportu11ities than William Smith. \F'orthe first 45 minutes, wewerethebetter team,\ said junior mid-fielder Taryn Samol. \We were playing really good soccer and simply could not rebound from an unlucky mis- take.\ That unlucky mistake occ11rred in the earl¥ part ofthe seconclhalf, when a William Smith shot took an awkward bounce and deflected off~ Union defender. Ooalkee.per Shannon Powers had no chance of making the save. Now trailing 1-0, the Dutchwomen appeared to lose . _composure as William Smith gath- ered the momentum. They added another· goal three minutes later,. Which really seemed to deflate the Union confidence. \It was an unusually emotional game,;' said Samol. \Once Will .. iam Smith got the first goal, they were able to hold on to the mo- mentum for the win. They were the first team to really ch~llenge us. However, we did learn. that we can play with the best teams.\ Kittiem:an agreed, saying, \We proved we can play at the skill -~level of the better teams.\ With a record of 7-3, the Dutchwomen take a crucial road trip up north this weekend to play St. Lawrence and Clarkson. Looking to rebound from such ali emotional loss~ the team should be fired up, as they attempt to get back on tt.le winning track this week. Notes: The results of the game versus Williams were not available at press time. Slabich and Kunselman Lead Union X-C At Albany Women Finish 11th ofTwenty Seniors Tear Up Albany by Jason Everett Staff Writer by .Jason Everett Staff Writer The Union women competed this past Saturday at Union College's men's cross-country team competed SUNY Albany in the 31st Albany Invitational. Improving at SUNY Alb~rty this past Satur:day for their 31st annual on th.eir 17th of 28 team finish last year, the women's invitational tcmrnament. The Dutchmen and their com- varsity team finished lith of 20 teams this past week. petitors com))eted 8K (5 miles) over the fairly flat and The women raced 5K (3.1 miles) over what is perhaps fast course. the fastest course they will compete on this season. The men finished 11th in the 18-team contest. The Leading the women for the second week in a row was meet was slightly less competitive than last year, when stand-out freshman Amy Slabich. Slabich, recovered the men finished 12th of31 teams. from last week's dehydration problem at the UCAA Leading the way f0:r the men was senior Dave Championships, ran an outstanding race over the dirt Kunselman, whose running style was made for Albany's paths and trails around Albany's campus. Slabich ran \fast newly redesigned course. Running from the out- aggressively and ran tough to finish 42nd in a season set in deliberate fashion, Kunselman ran aggressively best l9:57,crackingthe20minutebarrier. Slabich'stime throughout 1(} finish in his fastest Union College time was the fastest for a Union runner in several years. Head . ever. coach Charlie Casey said, \[Amy] was clearly the big Coach Charlie Casey deemed Kunselman's perfor- individual [of the day] after getting over last week and · mance \one ()fthe best races ofhis career.\ Kunselman breaking 20.\ finished 27t~ in 27:08, 33 seconds faster than his 66th- Next in for the female harriers was talented junior Jes- . place finish last year. sica Goveia, back from a one-week hiatus from competi- Next in for Union was fellow senior Jay Goldberg in tion due to injury. Although not completely recovered, . . . . . . . . . 27·:34. Gol<lbetg ran a steady race throughout, with a G . t . t tu 52 . d' a . . 'I Vnion'!iAmySlt~bichwlthunderlt.tnir.e.ttJgo; (JasonEverettll'C) s·.I, 2 Iast,·ml'·l ... to' finl'sh, 36 th. ovem ran a enac1ous race o cap.·. re n m persona __ ,__ ___ ..;__.........., ___ -t-_-'-'----------- \ best 20:09, in this, her third cross-country race ever. Casey said, \[Jess] ran a pretty good . Casey said that, \[I] cannot remember anyo11e ever running more cons is tent [mile] splits. race given the fact that she has had leg problems the past few w<:eks.\ Casey also said that · [Jay] knew what he wanted to tun~p.nd did it.\ he expects Goveia to go under 20 minutes. . To illustrate how less competitive the meet was this year; Goldberg ran one second Third in for the women was senior Kelly Jamieson. Jamieson, topping last year's 20:56 • slower last year and took 65th opposed to 36111 Saturday with basically the same exact performance for 62nd place, finished 59th this year in 20:38. time:. Casey commented that \[I] expect Kelly to be within striking distance of20too.\ Also Rtrnlting a three~second best on the course was junior Hugh Meyer; who finished 69th running. superbly for the women was Charity McManaman. McManaman ran seven sec- •. in a sweet time of28:36. Casey deemed Mey~r' s race \a real breakthrough.\ Next in for onds faster than last year to finish in a respectable 88th in 21:53. Katie MacDowell was • Union Was junior Kenny Scott, who finished 92nd in 29:39'. right heh·ind in 21 :54. Bre<lking. thirty minutes for the first time tl\is season was freshman Terry Chang, who Rounding out the varsity for the women was senior Alison Ciolino, who continues to · finished l OOth place in a time of29 :53. Roun<iing out the varsity finishers for the Union impress, 94th in 22:09, and Mellisa Magner who came in 99th in 22:32. Dutcltmen was Jon Nieman in 107th place in a time of30:30andJoeChan, I 26th place in Junior-varsity finishers for the women are as follows: 44. Irene Kan 23:02; 50. Emily •. 33:46. Morse 23:28; 54. Alexandra Podgomy 24:11; 67. Jen Schwartz 25:53. 68. Aimee Marko 1'11emen'sjunior-varsity results areas follows: 75. Evan Jahn 32:58; 76. Corey Mathis 26:00, and 74. Jen Roberts 28:33. 32:59;and 84. Siraj Bhadravla 36:27 .. .i /; \.!i I ~ ( ( tem beg this fori out: bee for Dia ce.s boa sar: sig1 tot gr(] ava spr CO.S wh chi - - Pri gi.c ho' aw toe El Cr Ru Si1 M w yo ge.1 en q T m< tei of w S1 AI of C(] an ed N1 Cl St C<J WI

Women's Soccer Unable to Beat Top-Five Opponent Even With w;ltiam Smith Lolfii~~, 7- .. 1 .Record Still Rai.~ing EJJebrows by Geoff Sullivan Sports Editor . Once again, the defense for the Union College Women's Soccer Team was instrumental in the out- come of the team's performance this past week. Last Thursday they helped shut out Hartwick. 2-0, and on Saturday, the defense uninten- tionally assisted Wi Hi am Smith, who defeated the Dutchwomen, 2- 0. Against Hartwick. the entire de- fense played magnificent soccer, making the job for sophomore goalkeeper Shannon Powers all the easier. It was the seventh shutout oftht: season for Powers. Sopho- more sweeper Jaymce Wilson played extremely well as the vo- cal leader on the defensiw end for the Outchwomen. Offensively, it was freshman Missy Matusewicz who put the team on the score- board. as she continued her strong scoring attack. Sophomore Abby Harris found her scoring touch once again and added the second goal of the game ten mi[1utes later. \All in all, it was a good warm up game for William Smith,\ said se- nior tri-captain Liz Kittleman. \The win gave us confidence and momentum heading into the game against the nationally-ranked Tovah Glasl!r belting tire ball en route to a shutout victory for the Union Dlltchwomen. (Laurie KirschnerflC) team.\ With a win over a top-five op- ponent, the Dutchwomen would have certainly cracked the polls and be looked at in the national picture. Unfortunately, the team could not rebound from an unfor- tunate mistake and lost to William Smith, 2-0. Playing outstanding soccer in the first half, it was the Dutch women who looked to be the ranked team. They clearly domi- nated the play, producing many more scoring opportunities than William Smith. \For the first 45 minutes, we were the better team,\ said junior mid-fielder Taryn Samol. \We were playi11g really good soccer and simply could not rebound from an unlucky mis- take.\ That unlucky mistake ()Ccurred in the early part of the second half, wht:n a 'A-Iflwm :::,IHilh shot Look an awkwardbotmce and deflected off a Union defender. Goalkeeper Shannon Powers had no chance of making the save. Now trailing 1-0, the Dutchwomen appeared to lose composure as William Smith gath- ered the momentum. They added another goal three minutes later, which really seemed to deflate the Union confidence. \It was an unusually emotional game,\ said Samol. \Once Will- iam Smith got the first goal, they were able to hold on to the mo- mentum for the win. They were the first team to rea II y challenge us. However, we did learn that we can play with the best teams.\ Kittleman agreed, saying, \We proved we can play at the skill level of the better teams.\ With a record of 7-3, the Dutchwomen take a crucial road trip up north this weekend to play St. Lawrence and Clarkson. Looking to rebound from such an emotional loss, the team should be fired up, as they attempt to get back on the winning track this week. Notes: The results of the game versus Williams were not available at press time. Slabich and Kunselman Lead Union X-C At Albany Women Finish 11th ofTwenty Seniors Tear Up Albany by Jason Everett Staff Writer by Jason Everett Staff Writer The Union women competed this past Saturday at Union College's men's cross-country team competed SUNY Albany in the 31st Albany Invitational. Improving at SUNY Albany this past Saturday for their 3I st annual on their 17th of 28 team finish last year, the women's invitational tournament. The Dutchmen and their com- varsity team finished II th of 20 teams this past week. petitors competed 8K (5 miles) over the fairly flat and The women raced 5K (3.1 miles) over what is perhaps fast course. the fastest course they will compete on this season. The men finished lith In the 18-team contest. The Leading the women for the second week in a rovv was meet was slightly less competitive than last year, when stand-out freshman Amy Slabich. Slabich, recovered the men finished 12th of 31 teams. from last week's dehydration problem at the UCAA Leading the way for the men was senior Dave Championships, ran an outstanding race over the dirt Kunselman. whose running style was made for Albany's paths and trails around Albany's campus. Slabich ran \fast newly redesigned course. Running from the out- aggressively and ran tough to finish 42nd in a season set in deliberate fashion, Kunselman ran aggressively best 19:57, cracking the 20 minute barrier. Slabich's time throughout to finish in his fastest Union College time was the fastest for a Union runner in several years. Head ever. coach Charlie Casey said, \[Amy] was clearly the big Coach Charlie Casey deemed Kunselman's perfor- individual [of the day] after getting over last week and mance \one ofthe best races ofhis career.\ Kunselman breaking 20.\ finished 27th in 27:08, 33 seconds faster than his 66th- Next in for the female harriers was talented junior Jes- place finish last year. sica Goveia, back from a one-week hiatus from competi- Next in for Union was fellow senior Jay Goldberg in tion due to injury. Although not completely recovered, 27:34. G<Jldberg ran a steady race throughout, with a Goveia ran a tenacious race to capture 52nd in a personal Union's Amy Slahich with under a mile to go. (Jason Everett/TC) 5: I2 last mile to fin ish 36th. best 20:09, in this, her third cross-country race ever. Casey said, \[Jess] ran a pretty good Casey said that, \[I] cannot remember anyone ever running more consistent [mile] splits. race given the fact that she has had leg problems the past few weeks.\ Casey also said that [Jay] knew what he wanted to run,pnd did it.\ he expects Goveia to go under 20 minutes. To illustrate how less competitive the meet was this year, Goldberg ran one second Third in for the women was senior Kelly Jamieson. Jamieson, topping last year's 20:56 slower last year and took 65th opposed t() 36th Saturday with basically the same exact performance for 62nd place, finished 59th this year in 20:38. time. Casey commented that \[I] expect Kelly to be within striking distance <lf20 too.\ Also Running a three-second best on the co\Irse was junior Hugh Meyer, who finished 69th running superbly for the women was Charity McManaman. McManaman ran seven sec- in a sweet time of28:36. Casey deemed Meyer's race \a real breakthrough.\ Next in for onds faster than last year to finish in a respectable 88th in 21:53. Katie MacDowell was Union was junior Kenny Scott, who finish~d 92nd in 29:39. right behind in 21 :54. Breaking thi1ty minutes for the first time this season was freshman Terry Chang, who Rounding out the varsity for the women was senior Alison Ciolino, who continues to finished I OOth place in a time of29:53. Rounding out the varsity finishers for the Union impress, 94th in 22:09, and Mellisa Magner who came in 99th in 22:32. Dutchmen was Jon Nieman in 107th place in a timeof30:30 and Joe Chan, !26th place in Junior-varsity finishers for the women are as follows: 44. Irene Kan 23 :02; 50. Emily 33:46. Morse 23:28.; 54. Alexandra Podgomy 24: II; 67. Jen Schwartz 25:53. 68. Aimee Marko The men'sjunior-varsity results areas follows: 75. Evan Jahn 32:58; 76. Corey Mathis 26:00, and 74. Jen Roberts 28:33. 32:59; and 84. Siraj Bhadravla 36:27. ( ( ( 0 tean begt this fort outs beer for Dim ces~ boa1 sary sign tor grot avai spri cost whi chit v Pri2 giot hov awc: v tod: E I i Cra Rut Sin M W: yot get ent sp Tl mo ter of Wa S\.1 Ac of co anc ed No Ch I Str COl wa ou1 nic To Mt eve -

Page 20 ,.. lS The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Volume CXXVH. Number VI : Schen~ctady, Ne-vv York . - .. · . . · .... Ottt1be;J3.'.i~l97 . . . . . . . . . Construction On Boathouse Commences by Aojali l31lbtsingham Staff :JI'riter C<!>Ostructionforthe l)nion crew team's ho~thoilsc has officialLy begun. ·Getting the ball rolling for this proJect was a co~perative ef· fort involving p arti~s both in an<! outside ofUnioll:Constructionhas been under se:ri.ous consideration for four years,, and according t<J Diane Blake ()£ Finance, the pro· ce-ss is finally u.11derway. \Th.e boathouse is a ~o, aH the neces· sary legal docruments have bee:n signed and filecl, . .and the contrac· tor ha~ actually broken ground ... We e;xpect to have it available for tlte erew season in ~he spring.\ According to Blake, the cost estimate, \including the land which had to l:le acquired, the ar· chitectural fees,. site work, every- thing, is $372,000.\ be bypassed before construction :the parking, lot around the pool Loren _Rucinski, Assistant Di- could begin. \Anytime you buy a area, as part -of Union's rector ~f Campus Operations; piece of land next to a body of Schenectady 2000 project. \It was worked closely with the boathouse water, you've got to have the important to the . mayor of co-ntractor in dev.e.loping the .proper permits,\ he said. \So it Schenectady,\ saidRucinski, ''and sketches for it. The site, .....-:- ........ - ........ ..._...,.___,.__,....,.... ........ __ ...,....'\\'=\\ _____ ..... he worked very closely which sits along the 'rTX:J' J b • ~~... W;ithRog_erHllllonthis.\ Mohawk River, is located ._,., e. ve .·.· .. een Wlt.iiO uta .. Rucinski added that beD behind the Front Street cause the: proposed boat- Pool in Schenectady'S . permanent riverSide :house site was park land, Stockade district. Rucinski approval for construc- saysthattheboathouseit- str.,cturefor the past tion had to be obtained self Will measure 60x80 from the state legislature feet, with three 20-foot .. (HJO:.fl.(J'·Q ·h,alfyeliPSe\ andthegovemorofNew wide !;lays. One ofthe bays · York, As a result of such Will be heated and used to - Crew c·oach Tom White • bureaucratic obstacles, store theboats. The wood- getting the project started frame building _will also incorporate offices-for the coaches, men's and women's.locker rooms, and the various mechanical de':' vices needed for basic operation. According to Rucinski, several administrative roadblocks had to took awhile to get the land pur- chased, but we did finall~ [dol it last week.\ Buying the land was a cooperative effort, between Union and the city of Schenectady. Presi- dent Hull proposed the upgrade of \took longer than we would have liked.\ However, Rucinski feels it was worth the wait. \lt' s going to be great for the crew team, to have their own pri• vate facility. lt'sbeen a long time coming.\ Tom White; head coach of the varsity crew teams, says that the driving force for beginning the project dates back several years. \I would say thatthe impetus came from about seven or eight years worth of students, team leaders, former coaches (Tom McClarence and Jim Crick)-all of them had a hand in .it At the end of the day, I'd say that it was President Hull who gained the.support we needed. It was his vision and his commit- ment to this sport at Union [that got this off the ground].\ White himself was involved with the site selection and design of the boathouse. He pointed out the importance of the new facil- ity, and the positive results it will bring. \We've been without a per- manent riverside structure for the past two and a half years,\ he said. continued on page 2 Was Lis.e Meitner Cheated Q:ut, Of a Nobel Priz.e? ''Singled Out'' Draws L~rge U~ion C.rowd by MicbaaeJ· DeMieco New~ Editor When one th.i11ks of the Nobel Prize, one thiril~s of a very presti· gious award. Th~ (]U~stion arises however, <loes ;()ne think of as an award that is ,only for men? Well, it might not seem like it today, but if you were to speak ta Elisabeth the Academy's decision process. The deliberations of the Academy are kept sealed for fifty years and after .that time, the records are only reieased to schollrs. Recent discoveries in the re~ leased records from the 1944 de- liberation have led many to believe that Lise. Meitner was not given the chance .she deser9ed because of ofMeitner's importance in the dis- covery. Thirdly, Sweden suffered from extreme scientific and political iso- lation, which hindered their judg- ment when itcame down to choos- ing the recipient of the award. Lastly, the Swedish Academy of Sciences did not consider the ex- tent to whieh German persecution ·of the Eu- by Lisa Pertoso Staff Writer Last Wednesday, October 15th at 9 PM, Union students banded together in Chet's for one common pur· pose - Un- ion's version· of MTV's \Singled Out,\ hosted by Lisette Sand- Freed-. man and Jake . Fruchter of proceeded to eliminate the contes- tants that didn't fall into their cat- egory of the ideal date. A series of questions that evoked many laughs and cheers from the · \Singled Out\ spectators, as the finalists did their best to earn the loudest ap- plause to stay in the game. The winners received a $40 gift certific~te Crawfrord, Ruth Lewin Si;n, ot M a r k Walker, you .. might rope an Jewry skewed the pub- lished sci- ·to enjoy with their dates at \Lovelines.\ entific . The sh.ow the restaurant get a differ- ent re- sponse. Three months af ... ter the end of World War II, the Swedish Academy record . d . .... of the· I·r Whether opene w1tu or not it can be said that these . about 15 choice. Over- women and Singled Out at Chet's (A. Quigley!TC) all, the annual men anx.iously anticipating the ap- \Singled Out\ show proved again pearance of the b1indfolded Keith to be a successful social event for factors were add- ~H-am __ il_to_n_a_n_d_K_i_rs-ti_n_K_o_h_n_._T_he_Y ___ u_n_i_o_n_. ________________ ___ ed on top of the fact that she of Sciences · was a wo- convened man is in- · and award- ·1-IIIIIIIIMIIilll• determin- ed the 1944 _H_Il_rk..,....W._a_tk .... e .... r s_h_o ... w .... s_» .... e .... it_n_er_'s_s_t\_ .... e .... ih_s_c_ie_n..;;tifl_lc ... - a_c_k ..... ·n .... ow ... l_e..;;dg;;.e_m_e_nt_(.;,..:A.,.... • ..;;;;Q_u,...;.'g:_le.;..tv/11 __ _ 'C;_J able: The Nobel Prize to. Otto Hahn for fourmainfactors. Thefirstisthat factremainshowever,thatshedid Chemistry. the review board really lacked the not get the award and many people · His two .ci;JHeagues, Frtitz experience needed to determine are angered by this fact. Straussman a11dLise Meitnerwete and interdisciplinary discovery This philosophical debate still completely igrmred. Strausm~n (Meitner was a physicist while rages currently, and many scien- was most likely to have been left Strausman and Hahn were both tists feel adamantly on both sides out of it becau:se he was not a se• chemists). of this controversial issue. How- nior scientist; as told by-Physics Secondly, the board suffered ever 1 thefactsstillremainthatgen- Today, S-<:l)tem be~ 1997. from a lack of' expertise in the fi~.ld der equity in scientific recognition · Meitner's lackj(Jfrecognition how- of theoretical physics, which led is now much more carefully evalu- . ever, has been related to flaws in to the possible misunderstanding ated. Haberritas Visits Union by Aileen Quigley Etlitor-in-Chief Professor Jurgen Haberrnas has been described as \one of the greatest social thinkers\ of our time. On October 16m, 1997, the Union College community found . out why. A powerfully acute social ob- server, Habennas commented on the changes in the cultural climate of modem societies. He basically believes in universalism, which is the idea that everyone should have the sam~rights regardless of coun- try of origin. This idea also incor- poratesthe beliefthat all ideas are basically applicable to all societ- ies, and that there are certain uni- versal rights. However, the relativ- ist position refutes this assumption. Relativists believe that your opin- ion of reasonable behavior is cul- turally defined. Consequently, since our moral beliefs are a func- tion of our specific cultures, it would be unfair to judge the be- havior of a member of another so- ciety. We would be unable to do SO since We are 01,1tside the frame- CO/rtinued 011 page 4 INSIDE: Campus News .............................. , ..... 2 S&T/1-Iistory ....................... : ................. 7 Arts & Entertainment .............................. 14 News ...................................... ,.- ........ :3 National News ...... -............................. 6 I Op!Ee1 ................................................. 8 Features ............................................ 1 0 Sports ..................................................... 17 ' .. ,·.

.r------------- ~-- ~ ----- News: ~}W@irt§g Pumpkin Sale a Success Page 4 New Fea1ftti!Jjlrl!~ Union llistory Page 7 Football Loses to RPl Page 20 Construction On Boathouse Commences by A11jali Balasingham Staff Writer Construction for the Union crew team's boathouse has officially begun. Getting the ball rolling for this project was a cooperative ef- fort involving parties both in and outside ofUnion. Construction has been under serious consideration for four years, and according to Diane Blake of Finance, the pro- cess is finally underway. \The boathouse is a go, all the neces- sary legal documents have been signed and filed, and the contrac- tor has actually broken ground ... We expect to have it available for the crew season in the spring.\ According to Blake, the cost estimate, \including the land which had to be acquired, the ar- chitectural fees, site work, every- thing, is $372,000.\ be bypassed before C()nstruction the parking lot around the pool Loren Rucinski, Assistant Di- cowld begin. \Anytime you buy a area, as part of Union's rector of Campus Operations, piece of land next to a body of Schenectady 2000project. '\l was worked closely with the boathouse water, you've got to ha\e the important to the mayor of contractor in developing the proper permits,\ he said. \So it Schenectady,\ said Rucinski, \and sketches for it. The site, ,---------------------, he worked very closely which sits along the '' 117 e 've been W;fhOUt a with Roger Hull on this.\ Mohawk River, is located rr j ,. Rucinski added that be- behind the Front Street cause the proposed boat- Pool in Schenectady's permanent riverside housesitewasparkland, Stockade district. Rucinski approval for construe- says that the boathowse it- structure for the past tion had to be obtained self will measure 60x80 from the state legislature feet, with three 20-foot fw0 and a half yearS.\ andthegovemorofNew wide bays. One of the bays York. As a result of such will be heated and used to - Crew Coach Tom White bureaucratic obstacles, store the boats. The wood- getting the project started frame building will also \took longer than we incorporateofficesforthecoaches, took awhile to get the land pur- would have liked.\ However, men's and women's locker rooms, chased, but we did finally [do] it Rucinski feels it was worth the and the various mechanical de- last week.\ Buying the land was a wait. \It's going to be great for the vices needed for basic operation. cooperative effort, between Union crew team, to have their own pri- According to Rucinski, several and the city ofSchenectady. Presi- vate facility. It's been a long time administrative roadblocks had to dent Hull proposed the upgrade of coming.\ Tom White, head coach of the varsity crew teams, says that the driving force for beginning the project dates back several years. \I would say that the impetus came from about seven or eight years worth of students, team leaders, former coaches (Tom McClarence and Jim Crick)--all of them had a hand in it. At the e11d of the day, I'd say that it was President Hull who gained the support we needed. It was his vision and his commit- ment to this sport at Union [that got this off the ground].\ White himself was involved with the site selection and design of the boathouse. He pointed out the importance of the new facil- ity, and the positive results it will briRg. ''We've been without a per- manent riverside structure for the past two and a half years.\ he said. continuer! on page 2 Was Lise Meitner Cheated Out Of a Nobel Prize? ''Singled Out'' Draws Large Union Crowd by Lisa Pertoso Staff Writer proceeded to eliminate the contes- tants that didn't fall into their cat- egory of the ideal date. A series of questions that evoked many laughs and cheers from the by Michael DeMicco News Editor When one thinks of the Nobel Prize, one thinks of a very presti- gious award. The question arises however, does one think of as an award that is only for men? Well, it might not seem like it today, but if you were to speak to the Academy's decision process. The deliberations of the Academy are kept sealed for fifty years and after that time, the records are only released to scholars. Recent discoveries in the re- leased records from the 1944 de- liberation have led many to believe that Lise Meitner was not given the chance she deserved because of ofMeitner's importance in the dis- covery. Thirdly, Sweden suffered from extreme scientific and p()l itical iso- lation, which hindered their judg- ment when it came down to choos- ing the recipient of the award. Lastly, the Swedish Academy of Sciences did not consider the ex- tent to which German persecution ofthe Eu- ropean J e w r y skewed Last Wednesday, October 15th at 9 PM, Union students banded together in Chet's for one common pur- pose - Un- ion's version of MTV's \Singled Out,\ hosted • by Lisette Sand- Freed- \Singled Out\ spectators, as the finalists did their best to earn the loudest ap- plause to stay in the game. The winners received a $40 Elisabeth Crawfrord. Ruth Lewin Sim, or M a r k. Walker. you might get a differ- ent re- sponse. T h r e e months af- ter the end of World War II, the Swedish Academy of Sciences man and Jake · gift certificate the pub- Fruchter of to enjoy with lislled sci- \Lovelines.\ their dates at entific The show the restaurant record. opened with . of their Whether about 15 choice. Over- or not it women and Singled Out at Chet's (A. Quigley!TC) all, the annual can be said men anxiously anticipating the ap- \Singled Out\ shov.: proved again that these pearance of the blindfolded Keith to be a successful social event for factors Hamilton and Kirstin Kohn. They Union. were add- 1------------------------- ed on top of the fact that she was a wo- convened man is in- and award- determin- ed the 1944 Mark Walker sltows Meitner's struggle in .~cientific acknowledgement (A. Quigley/TC) able. The Nobel Prize to Otto Hahn for fourmain factors. Thefirstisthat factremainshowever, thatshedid Chemistry. the review board really lacked the not get the award and many people His two colleagues, Frtitz experience needed to determine are angered by this fact Straussman and Lise Meitner were and interdisciplinary discovery This philosophical del>ate still completely ignored. Strausman (Meitner was a physicist while rages currently, and many sci en- was most I ikely to have been left Strausman and Hahn were both tists feel adamantly on bo~h sides out of it because he was not a se- chemists). of this controversial issue. How- nior scientist, as told by Physics Secondly, the board suffered ever, the facts still remain that gen- Today, September 1997. from a lack of expertise in the field der equity in scientific recognition Meitner's lack of recognition how- of theoretical physics, which led is now much more cai:efully evalu- ever, has been related to flaws in to the possible misunderstanding ated. Haberltlas Visits Union by Aileen Quigley Editor-in-Chief Professor Jurgen Habermas has been described as \one of the greatest social thinkers\ of our time. On October J6th, 1997, the Union College community found out why. A powerfully acute social ob- server, Habermas commented on the changes in the cultural climate of modern societies. He basically believes in universalism, which is the idea that everyone should have the same rights regardless of coun- try of origin. This idea also incor- porates the belief that all ideas are basically applicable to all societ- ies, and that there are certain uni- versal rights. However. the relativ- ist position refutes this assumption. Relativists believe that your opin- ion of reasonable behavior is cul- turally defined. Consequently, since our moral beliefs are a func- tion of our specific cultures, it would be unfair to judge the be- havior of a member of another so- ciety. We would be unable to do so since we are outside the frame- Clmtinued 011 page 4 . . . . INSIDE; Campus News ................................... 2 S& T!HisJ&ry. ... .................................. 7 Arts & Entertainment . . Sports .... 14 I~ News ................................................ 3 OpJEd. ............ ................................. 8 .., .•· ' National News ........ .................... 6 Features ... ....................................... 10

.Page 2 • October 23, 1997 • '<TI.ltc <.!Il'tucuruicusis . . .. · Campus News' Campus Security Info UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DE·PARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMAIO' MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, l997THROUGH SUNDAY, OCTOBER 19,1997 DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1997: I :25 AM . Library Lane area 2:30AM Reamer Center 3:42PM Library Plaza 5:07PM Bailey Field TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1997: 12:59 PM Arts Building 4:28PM Hickok Lot WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1997: 10:06 PM Day Care Building THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16,1997: 4:59 PM Jackson's Garden 6:00PM Library Lane area FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1997: 4:40 AM Raymond area 8:36AM S&E 8:00PM Library Lane area SATURDAY, OCTOBER 18,1997: 12:28 AM West College !2:28AM 1:10AM 1:00PM 3:59PM 7:09PM 8:02PM 10:24 PM II :42 PM Davidson Fox/Davidson Lot Reamer Center West Dining West College Fox South South Terrace .Lane West College SUNDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1997: 12:43 AM Fox North 3:24AM Libary Lane area INCiDENT VANDALISM: Flower pots in front of Becker Hall broken. Cigarette Urn and building name signs for Hale House broken. VANDALISM: Wall in 4th floor bathroom damaged. Toilets stopped up with papers. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Staff member involved in use ofmarijuana. Disciplinary action taken. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Visitor loitering in area of women's practice. Identified and advised off campus. PROPERTY MISSING: Staff member's pocketbo9k was removed from locked office area .. No evidence of forced entry. Incident occurred during fire alann. Pocketbook recovered intact prior to staff member realizing that it was missing. THEFT: Student's unlocked car entered. Storage compartments searched. Personal papers and change stolen. NOISE COMPLAINT: City resident called to complain about loud music coming from building. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Verbal altercation between two visitors. Subjects identified and advised off campus. , ANIMAL: Complaint regarding student's dog being allowed 'to constantly run loose. DRIVING VIOLATION: Student drove vehicle across . lawn. No evident damage. SAFETY: Report of strong odor in building. Identified as tar from construction site. Construction manager notifed. PARKING: Safety concern regarding improper parking by concert participants. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Tampering with room smoke dete~tor. Life Safety Violation Notice fi.led. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Wall divider in 3rd floor north bathroom damaged. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Student's car fender - damaged. Apparent Irit and run. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Fire extinquisher discharged. Another missing from electrical room. SAFETY HAZARD: Odor ofgas in building. Plumbers found leaking gas line. Problem rectified. No damage or injury. THEFT: Student's clothing stolen from laundry room. SECURITY HAZARD: Residence entry door would not close. Door mullion was damaged. On call structural notified for repair. FIRE: Leaves and pine needles piled in_~p~ce beneath wall stairs were set afire. SFD contacted. Fire contained. No damage or injury. Cause undetermined· possibly intentional. SAFETY: Check on unusual odor on the 3rd floor. Slight unidentified odor detected-unable to locate source. VANDALISM: Large window in lounge area shattered. Believed to have been caused by BBIJ>ellet fired from outside of the building. On call structural notified due to safety/security hazard. ATTEMPTED THEFT: Two students in possession of a chair taken from a residence hall. Item recovered. This Week's .Campus Announcements ATTENTION ALL SENIORS! An Elegant Evening complete with Win¢ lind cheese to celebrate the Class of 1998.! Thursday, October 30, 1997 at 7:30-pm in the Nott MemoriaL Purchase your tickets Monday through W~dnesday in the Campus Center. SIGMA XI FALL LECTURE \What Were the Giant Extinct Lemurs of Madagascar Up To?\ by Laurie Godfrey, Dept. ofAgricu:lture, UniversiJ;y of Mass. Tuesday, October 28th, 1997, at 7:30pm in Reamer Center Auditorium WOLOGY SEMINAR · \The Artful Science ofBotanicalllllustration\ by Dr. Bente King, Science illustrator for Liberty Hyde Bailey Horatorium, Cornell University TODAY! Thursday,. October 23, 1997, at SPM in ARTS 215 Refreshments. served at 4:3'0 MEDI~AL SCHOOL APPLICATIONS Toying with delaying your medical school application? Come learn how to strengthen your chances of getting in! Friday, October 24, 1997, at 4:00pm in Bailey Hall, Room 300 Law School Information Meeting \Preparing a Statement for Law St:hlJol\ by Professor Weiner TODAY! Thursday, October 23, 1997, at 7:00pm in Reamer Center 205 · Boathous,e .... Cont'd From Page 1 \This means that We've been storing our equipment outdoors, where it's exposed to the elements. The athlete,s have· been tra.i11ing. in natural ven- ues; we were located in a flood plain for a year. Tllat's really been the greatest difficulty for everyone, especially the athletes.\ White likened the situation to having a hockey team practice on a fr<>zen lake. \Having a staging area for our races, a place to store our equip!Jient, is nothing short of abso1u:tely nec~ssary.\ White continued to say thlat the crew teams, . along with the Union community ingenenil, will bellefitgreatly from this undertaking. '\We have a strong culture on our team, and a very large team, and so the upside of having a central location is something that;s going to be very positive for the program. It brings us Up to par with many other schools that we compete with athletically and academically.,; Joe Mammola, Director of Campus Operations, is also among those who have anticipated the construction of the boathouse. \I'm glad we're building the boathouse in Schenectady,\ he said. \Schenectady is the college's home, and I'm personally looking forwar~ to seeing the crew team row down there. I had the opportonity ... to help get the crew team at Union started, which goes back to 1983. I've watched and helped them grow, along with other people. We've been trying for about four years to build the boathouse, to identify funding, that sort ofthing. And I'm glad I had the opportunity to take part in the process.\ · Cooclluct Charges tiled, The crew team will be competing at the Head ofFish Creek at Saratoga Lake this weekend. Other participating teams include Colgate. Williams, RIT, Hobart, and Dartmouth. AU are encouraged to attend and show their support. ., ~ 5 ~r ~ u 11 ~ lilo! ~t \ ... ~ rr-:- .c- ft ~ 01 l4' ~ .If :U • J 'P Jt .e * '1lt .'2- u 41- 1- ~ »-\' a \h » -·.1 • 11 'J _. .4!1. .:t tt D K N- ft 4 .- w ._ . .fi. ....,. •. ~. • n v n. ~ ~t ~ 11: ._- ...._ # ~ 1i -.. ~ a 1 , : ! :I ( .I .I ......__. tbi Stude celeb: imp01 eveni featm sine c: progr consi voti01 A trac form< ther After party featm from Di, Ligh1 dayc mont them less r ebrat twoc tholo the t\ on t!: evil. - L - Br worn StatE alone ~illir nitml this· any us. ( her 11 :0 The can Soci a 51 ent Ma s t] Ag Brec: cen ingt in , Peor all ' state their this wer€ fon hav~: dred thei1 thei1 brea man the c ,if t I t

I ' Campus Ncv1·s · · [;'Jrr U:onnnoil'llsis • October 23, 19977 • J>~ag<.• 3 A Concordiensis Write.·.r's.· ' - . . Explanation of Phulijadi It's U ~gain! Twins Saturate Fre.shmen Class by 'Q.avi Korabathina Contributing Writer Tbis past weekend, Shakti and Student Activit!es collaborated to celebrate OiwaH,. o11e of the mast important ofHindu festivals. Th~ evening started off with a dinner featuring a variety of lndian cui- sine and followed with a cu]tura[ program. The cultural program consisted of a some film and de.- votionalsongs by various students. A traditional dandiaor 1 'stick\per- formance and a bhangra dance fur- ther enlightened the audience. After the cultural program, a dance party began for~the entite campus featuring the renowned DJ S·unny, from New York City. As one l~gend has it, Diwali is the joyous celebration of the death of the Titian qf Hell at the hands of Lord Krishna. The s()n of the Earth, Narakasura, was the ldng of a certain region in India. By vir• tue of his prowess, he became powerful and an intolerable men~ ace to the gods, sages, and all · people. He conquered and plun- dered not only the earth but the heaven as well, and to end this misery, Lord Krishna was begged to kill the titan. Lord Krishna consented and proceeded to the Titan 'skingdorn where he was vic- torious. lbe ·evil Titan in this story rep'- resents none other than the Dark Force within us, namely Igno- rance. This ignorance afflicts life on earth and her people - the ig- norance that imprisons the Light or Knowledge. This is the mes- sage of lea,ping flames that are lit once a year to remind people that the period of sloth has passed and that days ofprogress and endeavor have come. exiled for l4 years atthe behest of his stepmother Kaikeyi. During the exile; he lived in tile forest with his beautiful wifeSita., who is kid- napped by the Kill~ Ravana of · Lanka. Rama, heartbroken, man- ag.es to rescue Sita from the clutches ofRavana, a11d by then it is time to return to Ayodhya. He reached Ayodhyaollthe moonless night in the month ()J Kartik and was welcomed by r\ws and rows of lights illuminating his route. Thus, Diwali signifies the victory · of good over evil. A,gain, the same theme arises: the conquest of the Darkness and lgnor;Jnce resulting in the release of tile concealed Light from within, 'by Lee Polikoff Staff Writer With four sets of twins among the 521 students in this year's . freshman class, members of the Unioa community have found themselves taking second looks; . often wondering who they have seen. Three of the fbur sets of twins . are identical, leav.ing many people scratching their heads and trying to guess who is be~ . fore them. · In an article . in the· Times On this day the Goddess · U n i o n , Lakshmi, who is tile goddess ·of Katie and· wealth and prospe~ity .is also wor- J e n shipped; Businessooen start their Comerford· neW financial year ()R this.day and . • state that make sure that all tlleir previous '· \ m o s t. debts are cleared. people re- People celebrate lly dressing in · ally cannot their finery, visitin_g friends and tellus apart. relatives, and exdunging tradi- It is easier tiona! sweets. All !Over India, as to tell us the evening approacEles, houses are a~tart on the . lit up with rows ()f lamps while phone, be- . fraternal twins have joined the African and Latino .Alliance of Students; and enjoy ta.king similar . classes in the science;s and math. The Comerfords live together on the second floor of Richmond; Katie is undeclared, \Nhi'le Jenny is an engineering maj()r. Katie was bom one minute beftlre Jenny; it Was unbeknownst to their mother that she was having twills unti I she was in labor. Jenny and Julie Nettina also reside to~ether on the second floor of Richmond. Both :-----:o~ are unde- clared rna- : jors but are taking a!N most iden- 't i c a I classes. Both agvee that first- horn Jenny ltas been the domi- nant one since birth. Interest- ingly, their mother was tol.d that she was go- Diwali literally means '\Row of Lights.\ It is celebrated on the J5th day on the dark half Qf the Hindu month of Kartik after the end of the mensoon. It is always a moon~ less night. The origin of this cel- ebration carr be traced to at least two different stories in Hindu my- thology. Despite the variations in the two storylines, Diwa:li focuses on the conquering of good over evil. lri the second tale, this auspi- cious day celebrates the day when Lord Rama ret11med to his king- dom, Ayodha, from which he was fireworks illumimtte the sky. cause our · ing to give _____________ ._......_,_ ___ ..................... ..____... ___ ....... _______ ........,.. _________ -1 voices are · birth to a LL\ T MarcheS For Breast Cancer ~;::t t~~~ • rou'renotseeingaoubte rhisisunion'sne~ ~~rge :i~r~ fought but lost the battle against fects tr,eatment, will be among the our faces.\ crop of twins. (Charlie Casey) J e n n y breastcancer.rhisdaywasmeant organizationsreceiyingthemoney According to the article, there weighed 6 pounds 3 ounces, and by Aliss~ Riba Contributing Writer to be fun, a day to do something raised on Sunday. . were 96,736 twins born in the Julie 6 pounds, 6 ounces. that was based on feeHng good The sisters of Sigma Delta Tau United States in 1996----a 42 per- The sets of twins cite many of Breast cancer will kill 43,900 about oneself and a day toremem- were among those who walked~ cent increase since 1980, as cited the same reasons for attending women and 290men in the Un.ited ber the loved ones that are lost and raising over $400 fDr the cause. · · by the National Center for Health Union. \The nice ca.nj>us, the aca- States this year. In New York, those that are still fighting the One registration voLunteer com- Statistics. demic reputation, and the fact that alone, breast cancer will be the battle to stay alive. The weather mented that \it's 'Very unusual to The four twins are: Andrew and it is close to home macle Union the ~illingagentof2,700people. The wasinmanywaysanomen,60de- seesuchalargenumberofstudents Aaron Bell, who hail from Eagle right choice,\ said Amdrew Bell. numbersarescary, especially since grees with pure sunshi.ne; it raise so much mCJ~tey.\ Erica Bridge, New Yo.rk; Michelle and The Nettinatwins, abng with the this dise~se can seriously ·affect . couldn't have been better. Stechenberg, a junior who partici• Marsha Anthony, fraternal twins Comerf9rds cite the s111all size of any one of pated irt the from Manhattan; Jenny and Katie Union as an importa11t factor in us. On Octo- walk said, Comerford, from Buffalo, New their decisions.\ We applied tothe her 19'h at \this. is such York; and Julie and JennyNettina, same schools; we <:h()se Union 11 :0:0 AM; a wonderful who hail from Syracuse, New because of its small !iize and be- The Ameri- way for York. The Bell twins live in sepa- cause it was the best choice aca- can Cancer p e 0 p 1 e , rate rooms down the hall from demically,\ said Jenny Nettina. Jen Society held whetherthey each other on the fourth floor of Comerford also not.ed that the a 5K walk are directly West College, but they do not get small size of Union :ts an impor- e n t j t 1 e d > affected or to see each other on account of tant factor in their dec is ions. \We M a k i .n g not, to help their busy schedules. Andrew Bell both wanted a smat I school, and · d such an. 1 ·m- was born first, and so is. older than we applied to the sa111e schools, Str1 es .. A g a i n s t ·~·..1'0•\\\ p 0 r t a n t his brother Aaron by five minutes; and got the same deci:sions.\ Breast Can- cause, one .their mother, Irene was expecting Additionally, the twins have cer at Wash~ that could girls. Michelle and Marsha An- enjoyed being on \the other ington Park affect us thony live on the fourth floor of side\-experiencingilnd interact- in Albany. a 1 1 . \ Richmond, though not in the same ing with other twins-as a \strange People from ---------- Rebecca room, and spendmostoftheir free experience.\ They 1111 state how Participants in \Making'StridesAg~instBreast C4ncer.\ (Alissa Riba) time with each other. Marsha was surprised they are by the fact that all over the --------------------...------------ Resnick, also a walker and member of .1--th_e_fi_u_st_b_o_rn_,._b_y_tw_o_m_in_u_t_es_._Th_e __ t_h_er_e_a_re_fo_u_r .... s_et_s_o_f_tw_in .... s_. __ state and country came to show their support and appreciation of this walk. The registration lines were broken into two secti?ns, one for walkers and one for those who The money .raised wiU be dis- tributed by the American Cancer Society to several different meth- ods of supporting the fightagainst breast cancer. \Reach to Recov- ery,\ the American· Cancer Society's one-to .. one support pro- gram for breast cancer patients, and the \Look Good ... Feel Better\ organization, which helps women undergoing cancer treatment cope with appearance-related side ef- Sigma Delta Tau sai<l, \These are J· un· ··or p· ·um. p~· n S.al.e the things that we sliould be doing .... have survived breast cancer. Hun- just because; there really deesn't needtobeaspecif:icreason.\ A ''S. mashing'' Success The walk was a huge success, dreds of survivors came to show their gratitude and their strength in their own personal fight against breast cancer. On the backs of mai1y of the walkers was attached the name of a person who had notonlyduetothermoneythatwas by Tom Marino raised but because it was based on Contributing Writer the notion ofmaklngthings better and working harder to make our·. On Friday, October 17, 1997, lives and the lives ()f those who we · the junior class sponsored a Pump- care about that mu.ch stronger. kin Sale and Pre-Halloween Party ;::,;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;:;:=:;:;;;:;:::=:;;;:;;;;:;:;;;:.;:;:::;::::;:;:;;::;:;;;;:;:;;::;:==;;::==:::;=:;:;::==:==•=;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;=;1 in the Old Chapel vicinity. At ••• EARN FREE TRIPS It CASHI *** CLASS TRAVEL needs students to promote Spring Breal1998t Sell15.trips & travel freel Highly motivate~ students can earn a free trip & over $10,1001 Choose cancun. Bahamas. MazaUan. Jamaica or Floridal North )America's largest student tour operator! can Now! ~ ... aoo-83S..6411 · 3:00PM, 185 medium size pump- kins were delivered. By 7:30 all the pumpkins had been sold. The pumpkins were sold at$3 .00 each, and the prefit from the sale totaled $260. These proceeds are being donated to the Albany Pediatric HIV Program. The party, adver- tised mostly as \free food,\ was a gr,eat sucpes;s. .. Ma:ny ,c_ommented on the pumpkin pie and apple ci- der that were part ()f the subway menu. The entire event proved to be a huge success. Theju11iorclass of- ficers, Tom Marino, Beth Wierzbieniec, and Jeremy Lynch. Were very pleased with the support from the student body. It Was great to see the students V~ho attended and those who organized the event donate their time, efforts, and money to such a 'WtOnderful and meaningful cause. '\The class of- ficers would like to send their many thanks to all who helped with this event.

VI' I in~111u: VI' Admin VP SllCial Still 't·mlc prl>hkrns wi't11 lt:allucatiun in solllc duhs Starting to decide ori the hudgets that are in Proposal for van. usage Keep it at the current rate. but move the return deaJI ine to 5am Mutit>n (RD~si). u~c~:pt linancc cummittcc proposal -:)l'asscd 6'\ week check-up 2 wnstitutions approved: \?Robot Club 7Fl Club lid ping with the Gala (Advertising and decorations) FunHicks November t·• ~Old Chapel P0ssibly helping Chet's with the Fashion show Pete Simon Big Brothers/Big Sisters Casino night needs someone to sign for one night gambling license, would like to involve the Forum Motion (Dessai): have Student Forum President and VPs sign forms for license -7 Pa:;sed VP A..:ademics Absent VP Multicultural MAG: want to set up a fund to raise multiculturalism on campus, especially with in non-multicultural groups -7 Moved to MAC control Possible International dinn.er once a term in Upper-class (using authentic recipes} Carnival : International Thursday before : Parade around campus with floats : Different cultural events in Nott Trustees THC Freshman elections Need to raise morale of campus \?Teach everbody the Alma Mater lncrea:;e campus unity ~Encourage professors to introduce Possibity ofbringing Adam Sandler to Union ~Support of multiple clubs Trustee Weekend October24ti•. 26th ?Be proactive Change in Alcohol policy: Opening earlier,. limiting number of people, 4 sober members at all times Addressing Freshman drinking problem Alcohol Awaren\!SS week Oct J91h- 241h :TIPS Training : Alumni Panel Mocktai Is after Crosst~Jik on Thursday Working on Flyers to promote houses to freshman Nott Marathon suspended ti'll later in year New fundraiser: Massage therapy before finals week Class Reports Senior Jtmior Sophmnre Flegant Evening (new name for Wine and Cheese) October 3Q'h 7·30pm -7 Forum meeting moved up to 5pm I tats on the wa~ Part\ lriJiJ~ 17'' 111 S\dlar I tad meeting\ ith lkan :\11\•rd ahuut t.:ampu~ \ andali,,n l'o,,.ihk artiLic ill the Ct•ncnrd) \\lth a dntlar amount nc\t to ~at.:h \andal i ... m r.:port. and a rum1i11!! tt\tal C<li!Htlitke Reports SAt Would like a nwrc h)rmal pwpt•>al from the liT I 1ked the ideas, hut: o.~.ants to have something formal !rom the students C iot housing reports from ~:X and X'!' \?Meeting with ~:\ next week Business Motitln (Doughrcty) to accept the Robot club constitUtion \?Passed Motion (Doughrcty). to ac.ccpt the Fldub constitution \?Pa:;sed Skydiving?/ llianesburg Skydiving. 21 Years in Business (518l896-8140 15 Minutes From r=tmpus lOown Route 71 Open Seven Days College Rep Wanted!! High Turnout In Freshmen Elections t~y Michael DeMicco New!'; Editor f'h is years freshm~m student fo- fllln elections went extremely well. • Voter participation was at an all time high, a record 41.5% when : us~ral turnouts generally have hov• • ered amund 25 percent. What ; mal<es this. year's voter response · e'w!en more surprising, .is the fact • 11latthere were five less candidates • titan in previous freshmen elec- ti()m. Past elections have given . ri:Se to at least twenty candidates so why then were there so many le:ss? ~here are many possibilities that cot::Jid answer this,. first off being tile fact that this year's freshmen cllas:; is much smaHer than it has b!ilen in past years. This would account for the increas~J voting only 41.5% ofa class cot'lle 0ut to pc:rcentage. Secondly, these eke- vole.\ Well Chris, if anyone cotn• tions were ,fu.uch less publicized plains,. you'll just have to tdr 'em than they have previously been so why. • fewer people endeavored to getthe Well, by now you must be won- required hundred signatures. Af- deriog who got the positinns. ter looking at these reasons, <me Since 58% of the freshman. c.lass can only ask the question, \Should did not participate 1. will take a this be considered a poor elec- brief moment to explain what the tion?\ Well, looking solely at the positions were. There is a Presi- statistics, {the increase voting per- dent, a Vice President, and a Sec-. centage, the fact that there was fif- retary/Treasurer. All of them im- teen candidates for threes pos.i- mediately go to the Committee on tions) no this should not be con- Committees. Th.is ·committee ap-- si.dered a poor election. However, proves dub constitutions and ap- even though there was plenty of points members ofthe student fa- people to select from and voter rum to commitees for next year. participation was up, our student This year's .fresman dass President forum president Christopher is Alen Gershkovich.. The Vice Brantigan was not as happy as he Presidency goes to Dan Cox and would have like to have been. the Secretary/Treasurership goes \We're mewing in the right direc~ to Erin Aloan. Congratulations to tion; but I think it is pathetic that all and thank you for running. Habermas Vlsit ... Continued From Page 1 W'O!fk of their cultural values sys- t~m. For example, when a child is born deformed in Sudan, his body · is tlirown in the river for the hip~ · popotamuses. to eat. Our culture wo~ld shun this, though this be- . llal'liOr fits within the values sys- : ie;lll that they have constructed. Habermas also touched on is- Sl!le·s in international .politics and t~e forces in action throughout -various countries. He compart(d th e bipolar system ofthe Cold \\iar VI itth the multipolar system of a , 111 uUtinational network of cominu- lli c;:~tion. The Cold War of the · l9!;0s between Russia and the U!:nited States fostered the imple- . 111 e11tation of a near-isolationist ·pol icy by which other nations \N()uld align with one side or the ot:her. Currently, however, we're rnoQving to a multipolar system in am-ore globally cooperative effort to consolidate our resources. Pres- ently, .intergovernmental organiza- tions like NATO and the United Nations are responsible for hu- manitarian and conflict res()lution efforts. However, Habe1111as ob- served that in a multinational ap- proach, big countries WD'uad .:be · cable to take control of their geo- graphic areas. This is better for the . world in that the more cO'untrie~ that can contribute to regional ef- forts and can help hutrt.anitari~n concerns rather than have s:uch ef- forts limited to a specific gf{)upof nations aU the time. Anbther multimitio.nal effort under consideration is proposal for uniform currency to be u·sed throughout Europe called the Eu- ropean Union (EU). Habermas critiqued this change to universal money, stating that he was unsure if cultural conflicts would under- Spring Break ··sa mine this economic policy. lndi- vidualdifferences like religion and values-systems may have a coun- teracting effect in the mevement towards a worldwide cooperation. Habermas, though reluctant to make predictions regarding the future, was extremely hesitant to include Germany among the na~ tions to p~rticipate in this coopera- tive effQrt. He felt that the combi- nation of the isolationist patterns . ofthe Muslims and Kurds with the instabil.ity regarding nuc.lear weap- ons makes Germany an unreliable candidate for inclusion in e<;o- nomic globalization. · Overali, Habermas took the po- sition ofa social commentator and historian, but was much more re- served where the future was con- cerned. He leaves the rami.fications ofpast policies and ofpresent con- ditions to our generation. Sen Trips, Earn Cash, & Go Free!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus reps/group organizers. Lowest Rates to Jamaica, Mexico, & Florida. Call 1' -800-648-4849. I ' : '.\ ·' \ ~I

· OtES .. EL .......... - ................................. . TOWER RECORDS ...... ~.: .............. . NORTHWEST AIRLINES ..•.... \'·· ..... THE SHARPER IMAGE ............... .. 't-; Cash back Bonus@ award* -uld be you if you call .. 1·800 IT PAYSfTO; . and apply ' ·• for a Discover~

cashback :Bonus\' :. award* . . .. . . . .. ~ .. . . . • • . .. ~ . . - . . .. • . · .. ,.. . .. . . . . . ~ • .. ~ . .. . . . .. . . .. . . ~ ~ . . . • It could be .Y··.···o··. ·u· . ~ .. · ·· ·· 1f you call ~ .· 1·800 IT PAYS TO DIES-E-L.- ..... ·-· ............... ,. ... - .............. ~ ................... . TOWER RECORDS ......... : ........•...... NORTHWEST AI RUNES .............. . THE SHARPER IMAGE ................ . and apply . . . . . for a Discover® Card. it- ...... c a\s:h: Ad:va:n.ce· ...... ~-.., ...... , ........... _ ... _ . ., --~ . ....... , ..... , ..... ~ ............................... 'i! .................... il ........ ,.. .. . To apply Ol>liYie, go to WWW.diSCO\!QrC<afd, tOm ©199'1 GreertWO«i r~ Cl.llnPMY· MetntJer mtc. 'tiP ~ f<;!, P!lill y/i){jjjly baliOO ~ll wmr.lil~!mli.lf ))tll'¢1ili\lllil.

\ I' 1111,11\Ll' \'I' A dmm 1\tdi '\llll' pr<~nkm, \\ith ro.:allucatiun in 'llllll' dut\ '-tar1111t! to Ul'<:idl' un t>hl' hudgl'b that arl' in Pr''fl\'alli>r 1 an !l~agl' Kel'r it at the curn.:nt rate. but move the n:turn tkadlinc ll> 5am \1lltlull (Ro~'i) a..:<:l'pt tinan<:e .;,>mlniHl'l' propo,al -7 Pa.\ed o''· ''eel-. dH.:cl-.-up 2 wn~titut1uns approved: -7 Rnhotl'lub -?FI Club I klpinl! '' ith the (iala (Advl'l1i~ing and dl'coratlorb) l·unFI ichs Novcmha J·' -7< lid (. 'hapd l\1ssihl) helping Chct's \lith thl' Fa,hiun -,Jm\1 I' l' II: s llll\1 n Big Bwthl'rs!Big. Sisters Ca;ino night lll!l'ds soml'lHll' to ;ign fur <'Ill! n1ght gamhling. liccme. 11ould likt: to 1n1oh~.: thl' l·orum \1t>tion (Dl'ssai) han: Studl'nt Fnrum President and VI'-.. ,ig.n l(lrms l(lr I icl'nse -?Passed VI' :\cadl'm ic, Absl'nt \'I' :'\1ultkultural Trustees IFC THC MACi 11an1 to Sl't up a fund to raise multiculturalism on campus. especiall) with in non-multicultural groups 7 Moved to MAC control Possible International dinm:r once a term in !Jppcr-cla~~ (using aLithentic recipes) Carnival · International Thursday before Freshman elections · Parade around campus with floats : Different cultural events in Nott Need to raise morale of campus ~Teach cvcrbodj the Alma Mater Increase campus unity -7 Encourage professors to introduce Possibity of bringing Adam Sandler to Union -?Support of multiple clubs Trustee Weekend October 24°'- 26' 11 -7 Be proactive Change in Alcohol policy: Opening earlier, limiting number of people, 4 sober members at all times Addressing Freshman drinking problem Alcohol Awareness week Oct 19' 11 - 24'h • Tl PS Training : Alumni Panel Mocktails after Crosstalk on Thursday Working on Flyers to promote houses to freshman Nott Marathon suspended till later in year New fundraiser: Massage therapy before finals week Class Reports \.enior JU!llllr 'lopillllllrC Flegant l'wning (new name for Wine and Cheese)! ktohcr 30'h 7 .30pm -7 Forum meeting moved up to :'ipm I lat-.. on the \1 a~ l'art:- I r1Ja:- 17\ 111 Shl'ilar I! ad mct.:tlllg \\ ilh I lean AltiHd about campu~ \andali\111 l'o~-.ibk artid.: in the t'llflcord:. \\ ith a dollar amount nc\t tll ca..:h \ andali~m report. and a runnin11 tPtal Cummittcc Reports '-,:\(' Would lihc a mon.: lllrmal propo;al from the IF(' Liked the idcas. hut \\ants to have something formal fmm the 'tudents ( iot lwu,ing n.:pol1s from ~X and X 'I' -?Meeting with ~X next week !\;c\1 Bu;im:~~ Motion (i)oughrcty) to accept the Robot club constitution -?Passed Motion (Doughrety ). to accept the F I cluh constitution -?Passed Skydiving?/ llianesburg Skydiving 27 Years in Business [5181 895-8140 15 Minutes From r;mpus lOown Route 71 Open Seven Days College Rep Wanted!! High Tur~nout In Freshmen Ele,ctions by Michael DeMicco :'\'ews Editor This years freshman student fo- rum elections wcr:Jt cxtrcrncly well Voter participation was at aN all t irne high, a record 41 .5%, when usual turnouts generally nave hov- ered around 25 percent. What makes this year's voter response even more surprising, is the fact that there were five less candidates than in previous freshmen elec- t ions. Past elections have given rise to at least twenty candidates so whv then were there so manv - -' kss'! Th~.:re arc many possibilities that could answer this, first off being the fact that this year's freshmen class is much smaller than it has account for thc incn:a~~d voting onl) 4l.S 0 oofada~s~:omt.:outto pcr~:~.:ntage. Scumdly, these dec- vote.\ Well Chris, if anyone com- lions were much less pubJ,icized plains, you'll just have to tell 'em than they have previously been so why. . fc\ver people ~ndeavored 1o get the Well, by now you must be won- required hundred signat·IUes. Af- dering who got the positions. tcr looking at these reasons, one Since 58% of the freshman class can only ask the question, \Should did not participate I will take a this be considered a po~r elec- brief moment to explain what the tion?\ Well, looking solely at the positions were. There is a Presi- statistics, (the iNcrease V()ti ng per- dent, a Vice President, and a Sec- ccntage, the fact that there \Nas fif- retary/Treasurer. All of them im- teen candidates for threes posi- mediately go to the Commiuee on tions) no this should not be con- Committees. This committee ap- sidered a poor election. However, proves club constitutions aHd ap- cvcn though there was plenty of points members of the student fa- people to select from and voter rum to commitees for next year. participation was up, our stttdent This year's fresman class President forum pres.ident Christopher is Alen Gershkovich. The Vice Brantigan was not as happy as he Presidency goes to Dan Cox and would have I ike to ha\Ve been. the Secretary/Treasurership goes \We're moving in the riglndirec- to Erin Aloan. Congratulations to been in past years. This would tion, but I think it is patheti<: that all and thank you for running. Habermas Visit.,..Continued From Page 1 work of their cultural values sys- tem. For example, when a child is born deformed in Sudan, his body is thrown in the river for the hip- popotamuses to eat. Our culture would shun this, though this be- havior fits within the values sys- tem that they have constructed. Habermas also touched on is- sues in international politics and the forces in action throughout various countries. He compared the bipolar system of the Cold War with the multipolar system of a multinational network of commu- nication. The Cold War of the I 980s between Russia and the United States fostered the imple- mentation of a near-isolationist policy by which other nations would align with one side or the other. Currently, however, we're moving to a multipolar system in a more globally cooperative effort to consolidate our resources. Pres- ently, intergovernmental organiza- tions like NATO and the United Nations are responsible for hu- manitarian alild conflict res(}lution efforts. However, Habennas ob- served that i.N a multinati0nal ap- proach, big countries \1/()U ld be able to take control of their geo- graphic areas. This is better f(}r the world in that the more c&untries that can coNtribute to reg;ional ef- forts and can help humcmitarian concerns rather than have s.uch ef- forts limited to a specific group of nations all the time. Another multinational effort under consideration is pr&posal for uniform currency to 'be used throughout Europe called the Eu- ropean Union (EU). Habermas critiqued this change to u11iversal money, stating that he was unsure if cultural conflicts would under- Spring Break •ga mine this economic policy. Indi- vidual differences like religion and values-systems may have a coun- teracting effect in the movement towards a worldwide cooperation. Habermas, though reluctant to make predictions regarding the future, was extremely hesitant to include Germany among the na- tions to participate in this coopera- tive effort. He felt that the combi- nation of the isolationist patterns of the Muslims and Kurds with the instability regarding nuclear weap- ons makes Germany an unreliable candidate for inclusion in eco- nomic globalization. Overall, Habermas took tile po- sition of a social commentator and historian, but was much more re- served where the future was con- cerned. He leaves the ramifications of past policies and of present con- ditions to our generation. Sell Trips, Earn Cash, & Go Free!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus reps/group organizers. Lowest Rates to Jam.aica,. Mexico, & Florida. Ca II 1-800-648-4849.

' . . ' . ·Page 6 • October 23, 1997 • QJlft' illmtrttrbittHiis_ . . · . . · \Vorld News & Yicw~ World News & Views Connelly's \Around the Globe\ Strikes Again by Jay Connelly Staff Writer All right, enough already. I cannot begin to explain how fed up I am with the panic about teenag.e .deaths from alcohol related incidences. I bring you the World News, and J can tell all of you, right now, that there are much more pressing issues to be dealt with in this world such as motorcycle related deaths. lf this were an editorial, which it is not, I would mention the terrible deaths of three young men on motorcycles that occurred last week ami how if our government would panic and ban motorcycles, these deaths probably would not happen any more. I could explain the analogy between this and the theory that if you eliminate the cause, you do not get the effect. However, after that I would be quick to point out that in the 1920s the United States tried something called Prohibition which sent the nation reeling into further chaos and crime. So much for that theory. In fact, I would probably get .so caught up in the who-le unfortunate hysteria of motorcycle related deaths that 1 would, instead of writing this article, write letters to just about every possible scapegoat I could think ofsuch as Harley Davidson, Suzuki, MotorCross, BMX, The Hells Angels, and the producers of Easy Rider. These letters would be written by my lawyer; with such legal precision that if, in the event of another tragedy, I would be able to show everyone my letter and say \See I was against this. I cared about Jimmy Soandsoand by the way my ass is covered.\ Certainly l would not want to be re&sonable and rational. I wouldn't wantto investigate the true reason for these deaths. Heck, I could even box this strategy and sell .it to other buck passing organizations. 1 would call it Pin the Tail On a Patsy. However, this is not an editorial, its the World News,. so. let us take a walk Around the Globe. The news out of Washington this past week was quite interesting. There was a near global catastrophe when the US stopped a] lowing Japanese ships to deliver their goods to our boarders. The bl.ock was a response to Japans failure to pay trade fines .. This incident almoststarted.a full blown trade war. What would .this have meant to us here at Union? J.t would have made it harder to buy nice Christmas gifts, thats for sure. Otherwise, Freshman probably could have gone all four years without noticing. To those of us students ·with friends or family in Boston, this was a fairly slow week, The biggest news out of Boston was that an Arlington teen was arrested for handing out anti.,p.sych.otic pills which landed him and five others in the hospital. This was the second occurrence ofpills sending people to the hospital in Mass, this year. Massachusetts sch·ool officials can contactme at x7()40 to .. ' ~ ' \ order their Pin the Tail 0!1 the Patsy box-game. Also th,is week: in Boston, \The T'' celebrated its 1 OOth anniversary. \The T\ is the oldest subway system in the natioll and if you ever want to make a non- moneybet, bet someone that iftheir · team loses they have to ride ~'The T\all day. England was also quiet this week, how~ver in a related story Sister Nirmala (Mother Tetesas successor), was invited to meet wjth the'Pt>pe last Friday. Ptinc~ss Dianas successor was not. Once again, Israelproducedthe hotnews ofthe Week. Israel promised to limit construction In the disputed. territories. · The limitations would freeze new buildings but would not halt constructiort on projects that have ' already been. started. The Palestinians were unsatisfied with the proposal because it was tlte current construction that broke apart the peace talks last spring. Nothin·g ever seems to go<>d eriough. Finally, in Schenectady, the Schenectady City Council was appal'led to find out that Uni(}:il College parking tickets are $25 while their tickets are Qnly $6. \Actions will b¢ taken\ stated an anonymous person. What this person meant was just as vague as his identity. Josh Mendelsohn Gives His Take On. Europe by Josh Mendelsohn Our Man in Europe Far from the stench of your favorite fraternity barroom, Western Chicken , aud Rupsi's Tavern is where you will find me these days surrounded by people who think that Monday Night Football is a soccer match, french fries are chips , and I should have to pay for my beer. That's right, I am presently living (and studying) in sunny York England, a beautiful old city about two hours north of London. I have now been here for over a month in addition to the two weeks that I spent traveling through continental Europe in search of fine food, new cultures and the finest ice creams in northern Italy. As a loyal Union College student, however, I feel that it is my duty to pass along some ofthe knowledge that I have picked up along the way so as to assist in any future travels that my fellow Dutdunenl women may be embarking on. There are two different philosophies tltat can be adopted when traveling via tlte almighty Eurail pass across Europe. The first has been more widely accepted as the \way to travel\ in higher cultural circles such as our beloved college, and consists of tireless Perspectives at the Nott walking, endless sightseeing, che-ap eating, and gaining a general base of histodcal knowledge regarding your destinations of choice. While this can prove to be extremely, it seems no more valuable than the philosophy chosen by my fellow travelers ani'! I. Our idea were, in fact, quite different altogether. After all, I have lived in the United States for 21 years, and have occaisonally been know to frequent a museum or stop by a site of historical significance, but I have found myself focusing more on the social aspects of our society. Why then, should I change my interests with the passing scenery of the Swiss Alps and the Yorkshire countryside when I have lived happily for as long as I can remember. While I have to admit that I will probably be forced to borrow pictures to show my parents, it is not due to a lack of incredible experiences. Most everyone who has traveled abroad has flhotographs of the Mona Lisa and theEiffel Tower, find me anyone else who can boast images of drunken Japanese tourists doing the party train at a German beer hall or Milli Vanilli look-alikes dancing at cheesy Florence night clubs and .I will be Katha Pollitt 1 'Why I Hate Family Values\ MONDAY, OCT. 27 7:30P.M. THE NOTT MEMORIAL A MINERVA LECTURE extremely impressed. Some might say that my friends and I have robbed ourselves of an incredible intellectual opportunity, but 1 beg to differ. How much more could have we !.earned about the intellect of a nation than we picked up by fending off the advances of drunken middle-aged Austrian men (all of my companions were female) at I in the morning. (Does anyone know what \Snootsee Pooky\ means in German?) While the stories that I could relay are endless, I am taking the easy way out (a Ia Rawson Thurber) and leaving you with a list of essential facts for a European traveler. -If you are going sightseeing, look up in you \Let's Go ... \ book what days the chosen site is open before going there. For example, the Louvre in Paris is not open on tuesdays~ .. -Do not go out drinking without a written copy of your hotei/J;lt()stel address in your pocket as communicating with cabdrivers .in a foreign language becomes ~ven. mo_redifficult after a few pints ... -Never Fear, you will ·probably run into fellow Union students in train stations and . other ce11tral locations(it' s a small world after aiL.) -Most Italians.bave not yet realized that pigeons are dirty, stupid birds and insist on having them sit all over themselves for pictures. Someone should ale11 them of the truth on this matter ... -European men are more forward than most Americans, but European women are not. .. ~If you do not speak the native language, just pointing and. smiling will not always get you exactly what you ordered. -The French are really no less polite than the average American, but do charge less for parasailing ... -lf you are going to lose your passport, try not to do it o-n a Friday, the US Embassy closes on weekends ... Furthermore, while English culture is not really that different from that of the United States, except for a few words here and there (\caining fags\ is not the business of hatemongers, it is merely smo~ing some cigarettes), but they do offer some wonderful things that you just can not find at home. The most important of these, in my opinion, are to be found at McDonalds, where·theystill serve the old McChicken Sandwich, the old style, yet highly dangerous apple pies, and deliver all ofthis in the old , school styrofoam containers that we thought were gone forever. In addition to all of that tremendous stuff, most fast food locations here in Europe are servi:ng a veggie burger, this includes the popular veggie Whopper at Burger King. Stirt, some one needs to introduce buffalo wings and blue cheese dressing to the owners of the wonderful British pubs. (Beer without wings? No wonder there are no fraternities over here ... such ashame.) In conclusion, I must say what every Union student who has gone abroad before me has said ... Go!!! Get out ofSchenectady for a while~ it will be the same when you get back. But don't forget, that n{) matter how far from home you are. nothing can cheer up a bad day quicker than a Big Mac, large tries, and a medium Coke. Aaaah .•. tlte comforts of home. Domestic violence, abortion, marriage, pove.rty, surrogate motherhood, and welfare reform are aU grist for Katha Pollitt's feminist mlll This author, poet, and columnist for The Nation has a unique perspective on why it is time for 11 0Ur values to catch up with our families!' Admission is free. A reception in Old Chapel following the talk is sponsored by the Women's Commission - .. -· Im roorr You ever: over wall! wher othe1 andr Nc sion. the s cham nel,) and t Al1 unbe Defic tioni (ADI time. inga can~ go in! cont~ \A (ADI most order Price: iorai of chi Tit is lion c point: at lea ADH Unite Wl tionC lm1 1939 ofth( on yo ing a drunk with. away plagu mens( Act lished Cone< of U11

I> age 7 • October 23, 19~)7 • GJIF Qhltu:urui.cusis . . Science and· Te~hnology/HistorJ -~---- '- ______ ..___·_ Science & Technology Attention Deficit Disorder Affects Many Americans for Attention Deficit Hyperactiv- tain sections, particularly in the tiona! route to alleviate the symp- impaired vision, and loss ofappe- ity Djsorder. Altllollgh both are sections whi·ch affect behavior. toms of ADD and ADHD, re- tite. bl' Victoria Hargreaves S&T Ed'itor Imagine being trapped in a dark room with objects all over the floor. You don't have a flashlight but everyone else does. You stumble over the objects and bump into the walls. Finally you learn the setup when someone moves you to an- other dark room with a new setup and more objects to trip over. Now imagine watching televi;.. simi. Just when you get the gist of the show, someone changes the channeL He flips to the n~xt chan- nel, you watch for a few seconds, and he changes it again. Although these scenarios seem unbearable, people with Attention Deficit Disorder (ADD) and Atten- tion Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) live in these worlds all the time. They describe life as, \hav- ing a whirlwind in your mind. You can get a general idea of what is going on, hut you miss most of the content.\ \Attention Deficit Disorder .(ADD) is now recognized as the most common neurobehavioral dis- order of childhood/' states-Beverly Price, an ADD researcher. Behav- ioral specialists estimate 3 to 5% of children are afflicted with ADD. This equals an astounding 2 mil- lion children. Researcher Barkley points out, \This means there are at least one or two children with ADHD in every classroom in the United States.\ While ADD stands for Atten- tion Deficit Disorder, ADHD stands characterized by a snort attention WhHe scientists. are unable to pin- searcher Lahey believes that chi!-. A study conducted recently in span and hyperactiv·ity, they each point 1he direct cause of ADD and dren affected by these disorders, Sweden, \found that those who have unique symptcms. Those ADHD,theybelievethatthesedis- \respond favorably ·to stimulant used a stimulant had fewer symp• with ADD are typically identified orders result from a lack of chemi- medication ... \ toms andgreater improvements on as impulsi-ve, lazy, anxious, easily ca1s, ·known as neurotransmitters, Medications which are used to an intelligence test than a compari- d~pressed, shy, discontent, and in the brain which control behav- treat ADD and ADHD include son group,\ states Susan Gilbert unpopular. Those with ADHD~re ior and attention span. Medica~ stimulants and antidepressants. oftheNew York Times. Dr. Wilens, generally aggressive, Stimulantdrugs, including an associate professor ofpsychia- moody, hyper, restless, in- Ritalin, Dexedrine, Adderal, try at Harvard Medical School, in- at1entive, rejected by peer and Cylert, \stimulate cer- sists, \taking medicine on an on- groups, unresponsive to tain c.enters in the brain going basis translates into a better change, antisocial, disorga- Which are responsible for outcome over a year later.\ nized, forgetful, and easily arousal and a.ttention.\ Scientists have been research- distracted. Stirnu.lants are effective In ing the positive effects of these Most teenag.ers w'ith 70- 75% of patients with \brain differences.,\ Could Atten· ADD or ADHD fiad re· ADHD. However, \chil~ tion Deficit Disorder merely be, \a maining attentive in class, dren will sometimes appear perfectly rational expression of ex- doinghomework, finishing to be withdrawn, de- tremeboredomandfrustrationwith chores, and keeping friend- pressed and tearful if the an incompatible environmeAtand ships and relationships the dosage of stimulants is too unreal istjc expectations.\? An biggest challenges. tions are therefore designed to in- high.\ An overdose of stimulants anonymous researcher states, Although ADD and ADHD af- crease the concentration of these can lead to hallucinations and para- \Our greatest inventors, including feet behavior differently, studies chemicals.. · noia. Beverly Price states, \Ap- Thomas Edison, Nikola Tesla, and have shown that both groups of \Numerous studies have docu- proximately 80% to 90% of ADD! Ben Franklin all exhibited ADD children \experience observable mented the ability of medicine and ADHD children receive Ritalin or traits, and a solid link between ere- difficulties in scho()l performance behavior therapy to reduce signifi- other stimulants at some stage of ativity and ADHDhas been estab- ' but do not differ inthe degr~e of cantly awiderangeof ADD/ADHD their childhood ... \ Some who take lished.\ this form of impairment,' \ states symptoms,\ states Price. Despite long acting Ritalin occasionally ex- Price. Approximately 50%ofthose a nearly tripled increase inth·e use perience \rebound hyperactivity\ with ADD and ADHD are consid- of these drugs since 1990, each when the drug loses its effect. The ered \underachievers.\ Over40% child must be evaluated indepen- most common side effects ofstimu- of these children are diagnosed dently as each case is unique. For lants are indigestion, insomnia, with learning disabilities as well. example, some children respond loss of appetite, and moodiness. Sources: Gilbert, Susan. \Study Supports Use of Stimulants For Children With Hyperactivity.\ New York Times. 16 Sept. 1997, sec. F: 10. Despite these difficulties in learn• better to \behavioral interven- Antidepressants used to treat http:/ /me mhers .<~o l. com/ ing, researchers and those affected ti<m,\ while others respond better ADD and ADHD include Prozac, BevKPriceiHTML!web 12.html by the disorders emphasize that to medicine. Researcher Tofranil, Zoloft, Paxil, and ADD and ADHD do not prevent Abramowitz st~es, \for some chi!- '· Wellbutrin. These drugs \act by intelligence; rather, they serve as dren with ADD/ ADHD, a simple blocking the reuptake of a chemi- cha!Ienges. form of behavioral intervention cal transmitter called serotonin into Researchers have dis<:overed implemented in its intense fonn can nerve cell endings.\ The side ef- http:·/ /members .aol.com/ jamiedoc/index.htrnl http://ourworld. com puserve. com/homepages/edu tech/ 00002.htm that the brains. ofthose with ADD achieve results comparable to fects of antidepressants include http~//www.connix.com/-dxcc and ADHD are less adive in cer- medication.\ Taking a conven- confusion, headaches, drowsiness, hypercog/add.htm World War II Fears Plagued Union College's Campus David Dussault's First Contribution In His New Concordy Series by David Dussault Contributing Writer Imagine this. It's October 24, 1939 and the big exam at the end of the week is not the first thing on your mind. No, yournotthink- ing about getting belligerently drunk or who your gonna hook up with next, but the idea of going away to war on a foreign soil plagues your thoughts with im- mense reality. According to an article pub- lished on October 24, 1'939 in the Concordiensis; war was the big talk of Union College. At this time, \ ... undergraduates would refuse years ago. country ... \ It's funny how times to fight in a war on foreign soil,\ Would it be,\ ... cowardice for a change, especially at places clos- because they had tbeir . , . . .. - .. est to home such as Union whole lives ahead ()ftbem. · .u · .: ,,;;]. . ~ ·A. · ' 1 . . . . College. Fifty-eight years Did the classes of 1939, ;'< ' ..... :.Un:CJ..e;t!gp:auu.a ·.~ . ago, on thjs campus, in the 1940, 194l,and 1942 of : .. ; .. , ........ ··.. . ·. , .. J:J.. ·.same Schenectady, Ne~ Union want to go and sup- ··W't:J/Ul{:l;:ft!iii'': , · . : · _· 111 t:.; York, World War Two was press a Nazi uprisi11g that iy;;,;!i:· .. lf.:ii.<t:·.;·>);;T•'' ·, ., .. :~': .. ' ,.. .. ·• · ' · · · on the brink of becoming was attempting to take over. '/::,:~tn ~. >. • .• • .• •• ttr:':i:in·f;it} . ··· ... ~:.~:~:;d~~;!~~a~ro ~:~ ~;Y ~~e~l::~;;~ ;\::::ii;;~\: :,:,,j~;;J;riifjf~~~~,'' ,~·:,:,:::;:,:~:: :i~::~er;::~: :~~ walking to Social Sciences ·. ·• · '· ... < · .·.· \' ' ·• • ·~;·· ·· •·• · • ·. • ·. · • ardic~ not to want to nsk for a 9:55 class rather than mental and moral destruc- waking up to the so1.1nd of heavy student who has worked so hard tion fighting in a war that had no artillery and gun shots., This was for a college education to be reluc- immediate cQncem to the United the major decision that students tant to have th\t education, as well States? our age had to make fifty-eight as himself, buried in as strange The theme of being a coward was a patriotic slogan that pres- sured people, such as Union Col- lege students, to join the war ef- fort. The burden of this choice, as well as the overlying threat that Schenectady was the seventh tar- get in the United States to be de- stroyed by enemy forces at this time (due to G.E.), makes us think of how different life must have been for ordinary college students likeourselvesin 1939. As you lay in bed tonight, think of the hardships and decisions that Union alumni had to make some fifty-eight years ago, compared With the decisions you have to make tomorrow,

Purs.uing Intellectual Advancement At Union Though many complain that the pursuit of intellecnml advancem this campus falls secondary .to honing skills of ·.n ... Q_ ..... ,~.~ pong~playing, this past Week proved to be evidence to the contrary. · Students have acti-vely pursued academic and cultural venues, tre~ttin:gl · selves to intellectual betterment rather than treating their The attendance for Jurgen Habermas' lecture on \Learning Catasti~Ctp!hes?\ fil]ed the Nott to standing room only, drawing students alike •. from all academic departments. Though it is hard rprising that oneofthe \greatest social thinkers\ of our time woul icit such a turtl()l,lt, Union students are not exactly reputed be. avi · ies. Nevertheless, every chair was filled with pe9ple in· terested in hearing about the challenges he posed to the fragiJe wei- . fare-state compromise by the stresses and dislocations of primar-ily economic globalization. He asked his audience to consider the \neoconservative responses\ when exploring modern t>r>w•ho~. • Though his topics are heavily philosophical, the Union com- rose to the intellectual challenge. The newly-founded History Club and the Society of Phys,ics Stu- dents also provide<! a forum for discussing Lise Meitner and the 1944 Prize for Nuclear Fission, hosted by Professor Mark WaJker. Thi!:) club was started by senior history majors who recognized · was a population in the Union community genuinely interested n exploring academic topics outside the classroom. I can proudly say this popu 1ation of students who are taking a proactive approach to ir education is growing. Professors can be a rich resource of .re• search, and we are fortunate enough to have the opportunity to tap it. have been conducting their own research for years and have IcontaLcts throughottt their fields. Inviting these faculty members to share expertise with interested audiences can only serve .to enhance the '\'\a\''\' ic atmosplure .of the college community, and History Club .v..,, ..... , .. 5 members have discovered that they are often happy to do so. I strongly urge ~tudents in all departments to take advantage of the speakers available ()n campus. These talks offer a perspective into vari- ous fields from a an iquely specific point of view. In the ten-week tri- system, we frequently must pass over course material quickly; without getting the chance tO explore 0Uf SUbjeCtS in tOO IIJlil,lll 1 r1Pnth. These lectures enable us to get a different perspective on the subject matter, as V'/el1 as raise new questions that we otherwise \\\'\'\ not have considered. I congratulate the students and faculty who choose to contribute ion'shigh academic standards and who make a conscious effort raise them even higher. It is this group of individuals who will get most out their education here. I encourage all students to count selves as .ofthis The Siudent Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 ScheneCfildy's Oldest Newspaper Aileen Quigley, Frank Rossi EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Matt Cohen Amy DiBattista EXECUTIVE EDfTORS Christopher Leone MANAGING ED170R Peter Simon OP INfONS EDITOR Lori Green Kim R.ohback ARTS& ENTERTAINMENT EDITORS Dan Queen GeoffSullivan SPORTS EDITORS Michael DeMicc~ NEWS EDITOR Tatiana Cogevina Rob Hagopiao COMPUTER MANRS. Michelle Tham FEATURES EDITOR Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Amy DiBattista COPY EDITOR Laurie Kirschner Dave Meguerdichian PHOTO EDITORS PHOTOGRAPHERS: Rick Lederer, Aaron Braunstein, Jessica Paige. ST.·IFP Josh Aditms., Anjali Bahtsingham, Kelell Barr, Hannah Blum, Tracy Boriskin, Jamie Chand!er, Shana Dangelo, Matt Aronowitz, Gabriela Dory.JasG>n Everett, Jonatltan Gas1halter, Adrian MacLea11, Erika 1\i:ancini, Pil<e Mody, Nick Papanickolas, Eugene Schultt, StefanieSpeanburg~.David Weiner, Neha Shahr Lisa Pertoso, Victoria Hargreaves, Stepha11ie Slobotkin, Rebecca Thyresson, Maura Wiftbohl, Jay • • lntons . : ·lhe.. tN4L1~ G<~+ ~J,\+\ot'l 10 ~ OA-t Of ()N\Qt-.) EN i\NttiZ.l~b Whine And Moan ... It Is Worse Than A Hangover By Christopher Leone Managing Editor Before I start, this article was not going to be written. I like to write controversial pieces. It is not much fun, writing about thipgs that are depressing. How people spend their free time is not my business. I do not want to know what people do with their time, just like I know people do not want to know about my life. When I walk through this campus and see sign after sign re- garding alcohol abuse, it is clear to me that Union's social prob- lems have become my problems. In effect they have become all of our problems. Alcohol Abuse. (I know that is not a sentence, but lately it has been a theme aro,und campus.) Where to begin? Does it matter? How about where to end? First off, as I see it the admin- istration has not taken any drastic action. They have not threatened the students with any action, any- way. They could; maybe that is not such a bad idea, if things do not change. The Jetter that Dean Alford sent around warned the students to act responsibly. If we all c~ accompl:ish that simple feat, which should not be hard for young adults, then this w.ill soon passover. Ifthe students fail to act respon- sibly, then let the administration treat us like high school students. The fact is that if there is a fresh- men drinking problem, then 'let's stop the problem. Whether we like it or not, the drinking age is 21. Ifwe were not in the sheltered world of Union, there would be ramifications for drunk and dis- orderly conduct. If a tragedy oc,. cutred and a minor was to pass away, then there would be a po- lice investigation. I would J.ike to hearthe excuse ofthe person who served the kid at MJ. T. While it may not be a full- fledged problem, this schoo~, like all others in this nation, does have a substance issue. Whenever the security report talks about finding a needle and syringe in a bath- room, there is a situation. When six students go to the hospital, there is a situation. This supposed, alleged--call it whatever you like--drinking prob- lem is not the fault of the greeks, the independents, or any other social classification. It is a cam- pus. i~sue. To tbe s.t1.1dent body I offer a suggestion: j)Ut away the . signs, stop the co111P'Iaining. As the old saying goe:s~ 1 'put up or shut up.'' We can all pllt. OJJ: a show and do .a li·ttle song. a11d dance, but when you're th:ro~Ni;ng tack, or even serving twe11ty beers, does it matter at all wh:at you wrote? If those who a:re aclults want to be treated like aclu Its, then they sllould act like aclLJlts_ Right now this campus and this paper sound . like: a bunch of ba..bies who are having their bottles threatened. At this point oft!heissue, Ithink everyone knows tba.t an it will take is a few more \~()verrated\ Ellistrips tO' forc.e.i!J.e administta• tion into action. [f we (meaning tllestudeilt body)tryt() avoid this, fhe11 next year ~e can. start this wboJe problem OV\el' again~ If we cannot st()p th;e issue from further developin~, tbe11 let them ban alcohol here. · Mayl:le mote prcblems will arise, hilt we are all old enough to tal<e l:'e~ponsibility f<1r our actions, ancl no one here seems to want tO> 'l'le;ar that. Eriit.()rs' Note: Mr.l!3!oil1~ 1 s views do noi necessarily represelll rlzose ofT he Conoordy. This dcr.R.s: ~ottnean he isn't a nice guy, though! Letters Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the. Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page a11d m!Jst be re:c.eived by 5 p.ni. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and shl()ui<l pertain to an issue th~t concerns the Union College community. Final dec is ions concemingprinting and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters mud be s;igned and ·saved on a high density disk although th~ author's name need not appear in the ttewspaj>er, • if the writer so speci·fies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the (}pinion of tile Edit()rial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one-member in . particular. Any::; opinion columns, or cartoons reflect the opinions ofthe writers; or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appealing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect theiOJJinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is printed by World Media,.ll04Central Avenlle,Aibarty,N¥, 12205. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Iiltercollegiate Press (IP):o Nati<>nal S.tucleoni News Service, & King Syndicates. For · Iiketl1 a fake sharp talk in admis to get fin an< with mone schoo be a\ decisi myol stu de I rippe< admi11 each pack a I feei1 toattr; gorge them 1 packa is not corpo1 enoug Ft Dear 1 The with 1 believ sharin ing to event, tival), weeke event it, nor ln the Diwal bersa1 lowed felt th multic was tc tion Activi em pit spots 1 to any

. j OP/ED . .· . . . · · Wi1c illo1~cornicw:>is · October 23, 1991·. P~gc 9 • • 1n1ons We Are the Fish - . . . . Kudos To The WWSYE Dear Editor, by Eddie Rodriguez Contributing Writer For some strange reason, I feel . like tlie ignorant fish tha! went for a fake plastic worm on a hook too sharp for its own good. 1 am talking about how the hook (the admissions office) works closely together with the bait (the financial aid office) and lures us with a nice, fat, juicy worm-- money. When applying to schools, one considers money to 'be a very ·important factor in the decision--making pro~ess. From my observation and that of other students, we are once again being ripped off by the Union College administration. As one conquers each year, one's financial aid package gets smaller and smaller. I feel that the only way for Uniotl to attract students (other than this gorgeous campus) is to entice them with a fat juicy financial aid package. Let's face it, this school is not \just\ a college, it is a big· corporation. This institution has enough money to pay for almost all of our tuition bills. I have a lot of pri·de in my college, don't getme wrong. I feel that it is very important to contribute to ones school in every manner possible. When I am · settled, with my desires fulfilled, :( too will contribute heavily to Union. However, for the time being, Onion is getting what my parents pay, close to $29,990 (heck, add $10 dollars and make it $30,000) and nothing more. As time in college rapidly declines; so do one's parents' wallets . I feel badly for my parents: they have to work tremendously hard•to pay for all ofmy siblings' college bills. Coll.ege tuition as a whole is increasing at a rate outrageousiy beyond th_e normal inflation rate. At this accelerated rate, when we are parents, we will' be paying roughly $1-50,()00 per year at a private school for our kids. What can be done? I have few ideas, but l amjust a fish. We need to come together as a \school\ and fight the I would lik~ to take this oppor- tunity to thank two leaders of the recently formed organization Why Weight Your Self Esteem (WWYSE) for their outstanding discussion on eating d·isorders Wednesday, October 15, in the Wornen'sCenter. Seniors Laurie Kirschner and Stefanie Speanburg led an after dinner discussion of the causes and effects of eating disorders among adolescent and · collegiate women sponsored by ' the Womyn' s Union. Both Laurie and Stefanie bravely recounted their ()Wn personal tragedies, as well as their inspiring roads to re- covery. Both women expounded upon the psychological causes of eating disorders, symptoms of the · illness, and what one can do to as- sist a friend .in need. Although the discu~sion was informative and the turnout was comprised ofboth men and women, I had hoped that more studentswouldhave shown theirsupportand learned about an iUness that is threatening not only our own college campus, but universities worldwide. Anorexia and bulimia are rooted in issues of self-esteem. As concerned stu- dents at Union College, we owe it to each other to encourage, sup- port, and respect those aroundus. We must become active participants in establishing a more healthy and supportive college community, Why weigh your self-esteem is an organiza- tion that provides an outlet for in- dividuals with an eating disorder or for those concerned with the issue. All discussions are confi- dential. The meetings are on Thursday nights in CC302. The Womyn' s Union is a political ac- tion group concerned with such issues as domestic violence, date rape, sexual harassment, and eat- ing disorders. The Womyn 's Union meets every Tuesday night at 7:30 in room CC302. Again, I would like to extend a sincere thank you to both Laurie and Ste- fanie for their en lightening discus- sion and encourage all of us to open our eyes to an illness that continues to poison our college communities. Sincerely, Heather L. Buanno '98 Co-President, Womyn's Union Josh Adams Says, ''Less Is More'' by Josh Adams Staff Reporter behind an answering machine? Were you just 'too busy for 48 straight hours to take five minutes out of your day to talk to me? Or Ever since there have been ath- do you just think that you are so letics, there have been reporters importantto the rest of the world to scrutinize them. Their relation- that you will not lower yourself ship, to say the least, has been bit- to talking to a reporter from The Free Your Mind, Union a reporter, I wonder what happens when the tax collector comes looking for you? Isn't it just com- mon decency to return someone's phone calls? Your answering ma- chine even says, \I'll be sure to get back to you as soon as pos- sible\ for God sakes! I guess it fails to mention in which month you were planning on doing this. Dear Editor There is a problem at Union with multiculturalism , which .[ believe to be the expression and sharing of ones culture. I am writ- ing to point out an extr!lordinary event, Phuljadi (The Diwali Fes- tival), which occurred this past weekend. The significance ofthe event lies not in the publicity of it, nor in the amount of attendees. ln the past, Shakti has held the Diwali Festival, but only mem- bers and invited students were al- lowed to attend. This year, Shakti felt that the best way to improve multiculturalism on this campus was to share culture. In conjunc- tion with the Student Activities office, which I am an employee of, Shakti made the spots for the Diwali banquet open to any student who wished .to at- tend. This subtle move by Shakti tersweet. You may be wonder- Concordiensis? could easily be overto 6 ked, but I ing why I am discussing such an What I d.o not understand is am writing this letter tomake sure odd topic, yet this issue was es- why you would not want the pub- that it doesn't. THIS IS THE peciaiJy important to me. I had licity for yourself and your team. YEAR that students take aproac- my own \adventure'' with one of This is the voice of the people of tive approach towards heighten-, Union's own e~~eemed .athletic Union. lfthe people read about ing multiculturalism on campus~ coaches. After repeated calls to you and yol:lr players, don't you anditisnobleacts likeShaktihas (we'll call him) Mr. X's office, I think that would insure a greater done that will tum the environ- received no response. The secre- turnout at games? ment of this campus arol.lnd. tary to whom l told me that Mr. X Please do not get me wrong In Pr&ctical terms, the event was had meetings all day. What I am here. I'm not bitter that I was ig- very successful. The banquet was wondering is this: who on this nored by a coach in some small filled with a mixture ofUnion stu- earth is that busy? college, I've known people like dents.l}le food was delicious, and My question to you, Coach, is you all my life, so I've become the entertainment was amazing. this: are you so immature and in- used to it. I was just a little d!sap- The success of this event has secure that you have to resort to pointed that a grown man had to Well, at any rate, I hope you realize my disappointment in you, Mr. X. I would expect more from · a hig,h-prcfile coach who is sup- posed to have social skills with the media. You can call me and dis- cuss this issue with me if you choose. There is no need to tell you my phone number, since I al- ready left it on your voice mail twice. However, I am not expect- ing you to call me: I mean, how can you, being in meetings all day long? started· a trend, and other 1 ....;s_u_ch_c_h_il~d_is_h_a~n_t_ic~s_l_ik_e_h_id___,\--~re_s_o_rt_t_o_s_u_ch_b_eh_a_v_io_r_t_o_ a_o_cJ_;}~'--e--~--------~­ multicultural groups on campus nave contac;ted Student Activities with more ide~s. f hope that this is the beginning of something beautiful at this college. -Michael Winn Another Letter From Israel Dear Editor In the Sept. 18, I 997. Lee Polikoffs article about student cancellations in the Union Col- lege term abroad ~t Ben•Gurion University in Israel., and I hope some Union studenual points of view. Without wishing at all to mini- mize concern or relativize the se- rious security situation here, I would like to correct some par- ticular statements in the article presented in the article· of the study abroad today in Israel and in other countries which face ter- ror incidents regularly, including, for example, Spain, France, the United Kingdom, and Japan. Despite what was reported in tJ:eConcordiensis not one student from Union College or any American university currently studying at Ben-Gurion Univer- sity returned early following the terrorist. incidents in Jerusalem. Ben-Gurion University is located in Beersheva, which has not been singled out for terrorist bombings, and as a result, our international students feel relatively safe. One student told me that he felt much safer in Israel than in '· . Schenectady. According to the Director of the California pro· gram in Israel not one of his stu- dents had left [srael in wake ofthe bombings in that city. We provide international stu- dents with security guidelines and we advise them to avoid the very places where the terrorist bomb- ings in Jerusalem took place. The Brandeis student s killed 2 years ago was travelling in an area in the Gaza Strip which is particularly dangerous and it is off-limits to our students. However, her family es- tablished a scholarship fund fol- lowing her death, in order to sup- port American students who wish to study in Israel They wanted to try to make sure that terrorism would not prevent Americans from studying in Israel. The sister ofthat student subsequently returned to Israel to complete her program of studies with her family's support. Of course, American under- graduates sllould be able to enjoy the real benefits of global educa- tion without having to lead the battle against terrorism, in the Middle East or elsewhere. And, they should not have to jeopardize their safety unduly. The decision to study abroad is a personal one, which individuals have to make on their own, . It is perhaps easy for some political leaders to talk about not letting terrorism win. It is much harder to face the threat of suicide bombing and indiscriminate terror on a day to day basis, in London or Paris, or in Oklahoma City or in Tel Aviv. However, the value of studying abroad is unique and it has proven to be of lasting sig- nificance in terms of the higher education experience overall. We certainly respect those Union students who decidednot to come. At the same time, among the international students already at Ben-Gurion University at the time of the bombings, there has been an outpouring of genuine admiration or those 10 Union students who decided that they would study abroad in Israel at this particular time. I wish them a safe and pro- ductive stay in Israel, and I will do my best to make their stay here a memorable one. Sincerely, Dr. Mark Gelber, Ben-Gurion Oniversity 1 Beersheva, .Israel;

·1~agc lO · ffiiir \!lnucorhil'usis • Octoh\'1\ 23, 1997 . · . . F~aturcs by Anonymous paying Thurber royalties for use of to operate them, especially those the Top 10 list. Oh, what fools are that reside on the garden level'? we.). Even worse is the fact that We are just wondering. Ifthey QQ Maze! Tov Union on no sub- we even still talking about not, maybe you should have An Open Letter to the Infamous Djahmbi and Mohm-ar by Chris .Leone Managing Editor stance abuses this week ... most Thurberville. If we are not mis- Mummy and Poppy call the ad- It hCJs come to my attentionthat Djahmbi and Mohmarhave becQme l 'rnpr·essi've Of course who· <>ut taken he graduated He had ht's mi'ni·strati'on again to make sure If · · · · ' · · • · · · · · · a little too big for their own usele$s egos. With .this injlatedsel-esteem therereallythin'ksthis will last? fun. Let someone else on the thatthelocksarenottoocomplex comesmyfuntaskofloweringthetwobacktoearth. · · We don 't Wh1'ch· br1'ngs us to swings ~or the denizens ofHickok House. . · . . . . . . . '' This paper, .despite constant attacks, represents tht3 of!lly journalistic tqpic numero uno (D&M's note: Ms. Tham; I hope you are pick- Of course, we mean that in thenic- outlet for Union Students. This is not CJ paper to post persona/attacks that would be ''number one\ for ing upthebillforyour roommate's est possible way. .on random students. Are these two so pathetic that ihey must m?tke all you freaks out thete)--the \al~ psychiatric visitations. You wrote 1 51 floor Davidson North ... 3:05 . about everyone? Do they have to hide behind their .fictitious coho I problem,\ or lack thereof a really scary column, an.d D&M PM ... what the%@$# is a light names? Face it, you two, no one cares who you are. Noone needs your according to Mr. Rossi. Senor are happy you are not our room- globe? senseless rabble: Rossi (yes, we had Taco Bell tlle mate. We mean this in the nicest To the gentleman who gets his This is apenonal.attcwk. Why? Sbnple~ Because it is my job as a .other night ... yummm, burritos way possible. Oh, by the way, if jollies via heaving broken glass- managing editor to promote staff stability. It is notthe responsibility of ... ) exactly how wou:Id you de- you need some more 'shrooms we ware at innocent bystanders and . the Feaiuri:!S Editor, Michelle Tham, to defend your s:iupidity: While fine an alcohol problem? Wllat hear Davidson is having a clearance then laughing about it (you sicko, you two seniors think about graduating, try thinkingabout growing up .. would have to happen at Union sale on all the drug supplies you you), D&M would like to inform As for your other attacks against David Kay and Eugene Schultz, for there to be a problem? might be having a jones for. you that such behavior is only tol-- please .realize that their stories at least show some sort of creativity. Shall we wait for someone to A h, yes--ding ding ding--the erated by inebdated Union faculty' Please do not bother to CJttack me next week. I receive enoughprinted die before we deal with our little World Champion Title Bout is en- administration, and staff. ·comments without listening to two people who have no lives. ' \situation\? (Mohmar's note: tering round four. This time it is Friday, October J.Oih ... 12:25 T.h k . an s, Djahmbi' s got a really spiffy Ms. San{!- Freedman, taking a stand PM ... the Administration lot (We Chris Leone black suit.) As we have read in for herself, her decisions and wow, d!dn'tknow we had one. Do they tne other articles, especially the her good friend Ms. Riba. We do have light globes there?). A staff ()ne written by Mr. DeMicco and not know how many times we must member's vehicle was baptized in Ms. Schulman, there is a problem go into this, but hey, this is actu- soup. Our main concern--we sure on this campus. While we do r-----------------____, as shinola hope it wasn't ched- agree that the administration dar vegetable. Mrnm ... ched- may not be handling this in \As for this topic of dar vegetable. What a waste the best manner, we disagree • • , that would be, with the fact that this is not a COnVersatiOn, lf S OVer Dear Freddy A., it's a good grave situation that does not baby, put US on a plate thingyouaregoingthroughaH deserve our immediate atten- the trouble of trying to curb the tion. It is absurd to compare With SOme tater-tOtS, jam , availability of alcohol to our campus alcohol prob I ems under-aged aspiring lushes oil with airplane disasters, since a fork in OUT rumps. , campus. We're sure this had in airplane crashes people L...o--------'----'---~---' nothing to do with the student have no control over their .. at a '\local convenience store'' fate. In alcohol abuse cases, ally getting to be fun, so away we pitch in' a fit after being nabbed people are completely responsible go .... Now, our mothers presenting a false LD. Br~w for for their actions and the outcomes. always told us never to tease people thought. No one inflicts an airplane crash who may have a harder time under- Time for this week '.sfree cookie. upon themselves, but people are standing things, so we promise, no Mmm ... cookie. This week's re- capable of poisoning themselves rude comments--we are not really cipients made an unscheduled stop with alcohol. that mean. This should actually be for medical attention at our fine It is time to grow up, Union. rather quick, as there is no other pharmaceutical establishment at Take some re.sponsibility for way to say it ... yol! did notre- 3:14AM on Thursday, October9d'. yourselves. Mummy and Poppy ct;ive special attention! Is it any coincidence that Silliman aren't always going to be there to Sorry if you felt as if you were a Hall is directly across from vvipethe barf off your chin. That, nuisance to everyone, and it is too Davidson, home of needles and Mr. Rossi, is the problem. bad that certain .people made you narcotics? Now rea.Jiy, is Dear Mr. Schultz, we don't care feel like that, but hey, that's not our HamiJton Hill that fat of a walk vvho ate your \red Champion fault. As students who have been that you had to get your fix locally double X-L shorts\ or your \one- here for going on four years, we by \attempting to enter health ser- -not two, but one--Adidas-sty le have learned a lot about Residence vices window\? Don't you have shower sandal.\ We at least re- Life--most importantly, that it is enough blow in Davidson already? s pect the reading. audience their job to fill the residence halls. If you're out of needles, go mug enough to not tell them about our Basically, it was just bad luck on the guy in Webster and take his personal problems. We were hop- your part that you were not re- \authorized\ needles. Well, we .ing our writing would reflect that. leased, as there were still spaces baked some high grade crack into Please refrain from using your available on our fine campus. So, your free cookie, so enjoy. c~lumn, \Riding the Pine,\ for once again, deal with it. J-Iete's the deal again, Sparky. your personal complaints. D&M No one was treating you any dif- Your letters blow moose (not to want to see an article about how ferenfly than another student., as trivialize your problems). So get girls eat hot dogs and Twinkies. you did not deserve to be treated. yourselves together and write us a11d how gentlemen eat a certain You were people who made a some quality beefcake letters. shelled seafood that rhymes with choice, and you must now abide by · Mmrn ... cake. Mmm ... beeeeef. yarns--just a thought. the rules, just like all of us. That is To end, here is some food for Mr. Kay, we hope you were it. We are pleased and honored that thought: Are you upset about the joking when you referred to you actually gave a turd and re- level of crime and arson in con- \Riding the Pine'; as the \best in sponded to us. We look forward to temporary America? If you are, the paper.\ It is clear that the hearing from you and everybody perhaps Mr. Joegh Bullock has the Campus Security Info is the best else soon. As for this topic of con- answer; \We don't need more po· weekly feature in this fine jour- versation, it's over baby, put us on lice and firemen, we need more nalistic endeavor. We resent that a plate with some tater-tots, jam a @#$%ing toilets!\ you would make such an over· fork in our rumps. We have wasted :sight-· •nuff said. On the ubiqui- t{)o much of our precious time ... we to us( thesaurus alert!) third hand, are done! we feel your pain. We too are sick Once again, itsgo-(ime! Let's .see ()f people assuming that we are what our elite tearn of covert com- tryillg to ··replace Thurberville . ., mandos dealt with this past week. Mr. Thurber was not original: see First, we have a question. Do the the Let1erman show for the Top windows of Hickok House come l 0 list ( D& M · s note: perhaps. we equipped with locks? If so, do the are mistaken, and Letterman is residents of said house know how Managing Editor's Note: Please be advised that The Concordiensis does not support the views of these two. All comments stated are tbe responsibility ofthe writers. LikeMoche~ Like Daughter by Reuel Daniels Staff Writer I never thought I would he say- ing this, but I think l am becom- ing my mother. Now, this isn't something that I should be ashamed of, it's just that I would rather be my own person. You see, I was at the mall the other day shopping for some new clothes. I needed a pair of shoes and some nice pants. It was finally my time · to use tny hard-earned money to buy something for myself, with- . out my mom ,tearing my choices to pieces. My mom and I have al- most the same idea about what looks good, but she is really picky. Every seam has to be in place and th~re can be no little strings hang- . ing off or skitts that go up in the back. So, you .see, I was glad to be able to go shopping without hav- ing to justify my choices. It's my money, right? Well, it wasn't as easy as I thought it would be. I thought I wouldn't have to worry about crooked seams or whether or not · it was too tight on me. Then, I be- . came my mother. l had to tty ev- .. erything on at least twice just to make sure it fit perfectly. If they were too tight in the butt, I had to get a bigger pair, even if I loved . the way they looked. If the style · was not for me, but I thought it ' looked good, I put it back and tried on something else. In the middle ofthe dressing room I had a break- down--not a real breakdown, but more like a realization. I was re- ally becoming my mother. My whole life was spent wait- ing for that ·day when I could' use · my money and just buy the first article .of clothing that I liked. It . . didn't happen that way. So, here I was, in the dressing room of some . store, picking out all the problems with an outfit that I thought looked · good. I could have settled for just · buying it on the spur of the mo- ment, but no, I had to become my · mother and started my whole shopping nightniare over again .. Every time I went shopping my m(')ther, I would never find any- thing that She liked. -Forget me and what I liked, she bad to\like it in order to buy it .. Now, 'I don't mean she had to like it as if she wanted it herself; what 1 mean is that she had to think it looked good on me. Forget what I thought about the outfit, that just didn't matter. So, even though I loved to go shop- ping with my mother, I dreaded ever buying anything when I wasn't with her. I guess I had this fear that she would make me re- tum it if she wasn't satisfied, I did go shopping without h.er and with my own money, but 1 always had to come home .and eventually show her my purchases. Now there· is no one to show my clothes to except my friends, and even though they teH the truth about how something looks, they may not like it. I went out to the mall ready to buy. I was ready to purchase those few items thatwere of a necessity to me at the time. I got a pair of shoes, a pair of jeans, and khaki pants. I think my moin would have approved, seeing that I bought the exact same pants that she had bought for me before'lleft in September. I hope she likes the shoes; they are not too clunky and they look good·, so I've heard. I guess becoming, my mother is not such a bad thing. It has made me more careful w]tb the choices I meet. f now am more particular as to what fits well and what looks good. l don't think I mind having some aspects .of my mother's per- sonality. I wouldn't want to be ... come her completely, but having the ability to be critical of myself and my choices is S()mething that is important. I don't know why l was bothered so much by the idea of becoming my mother. She is one of the most wonder- ful people l know. How could l not want to be like her? I guess I thought that when I finally could make my own decisions about my life, I would be making them on my own, without thinking about what my mother would say. t I ! r t I I r l I s t r } \ c c r

Ifi were a vindictive per$()n, this week's article would find me com- ing up with multiple way:s to ridi· cule, ba$h, degrade, andjust plain put down the authors ofth~ artie]~ J)jahmbi, and Mohmar. lbwever, since I am not an evil person, nor do I want tny own articl~ to re- semble the type ofjoumalistn that the-y write, this is the end of this subject. The topic for this wee \ks foray into \journalism\ is, in ,1eality, a seFious bit of writing. Wbile this might be a shock to some people, I do have a serious side. After the pastnumberofweeks bein~a pain in the butt to those peoJ)Le who W<Jrk for The ConcordietJsis, I have come to the realization that these people, our fellow students, put more effort into this 11ewspa· per than any one. of us co11ld real- ize or give them credit for. This, of course, starts 'Wiith·ev- eryone who contributes to the newspaper. From the staff~riters to the photogmphers, they :all make . . . sure that The Concordiensis has ar- ticles and pictures so that as a c&m- p.us we have something to com- . plain about. Up next comes aH the editors, whether it be the sports editors or the features editor orourtwo photo editors, it is these people who '' ... at ll school--of this small a size,.we need to thank those who help bring us together every week. '' check over sloppy work, do lay- out, and put the newspaper to- gether piece by piece. Then there are the people whom I annoy on adaily basis. These are people, in my opinion, who are in need of us as a campus to stop them and congratulate .them .for the greatjobthatthey do every week. The first people up would have to PEANUT BuTTER CooKIES., PRETZELS AND SoME Goon CoN .. VERSATION ' \ ' be the Executive Editors Arny DiBattista and Matt Cohen. If Amy .could have her way; she wouldban me from the offi-ce; so for onceslte could get some work done. by MicbeUe Tham F eatutes Editor I love chocolate. Next up is our bum of a Manag· Urn, and Those perfect french ing Editor, Chris Leone~ WhiTe at fries from McDonald's, and egg- ti'mes Chris would rather be any- plant parmesan, and mint choco- w'here than trC~pped on the third late chip ice cream in sugar cones. floor of the Reamer, he stays till These are all things that make me the end and has his greasy little terribly happy,.and they have been hands in every section. my solace recently, since stress Lastly there are our two Editors- seems to be the number-one an- In-Chief, Aileen Quigley and · noyance factor in my life. Noth- Ptank \Tank\ Rossi. Both arethe · ing fixes the anxiety of an Orgo heart and soul, the head of the · exam like mozzarella sticks and .newspaper, if ycu wiH. To l()ose chocolate chip cookies from either one ofthem before their time Freihoffer's. is up would n<Jt be good for the · This may sound like some mind- paper, Both ofthese people, from less rambling that you've read be- what I have seen, never get the fore, since I wrote a similar article credit nor the recognition that tlley to this one last year. The twist on deserve. No one on the staff does. the reasoning behind this article is What is the p()int of this article'? very different this year, though. I Why did I write it? I wrote·it be- guess I have realized that one of cause at a school of this small a the reasons I adore cheeseburgers · size, we need to thank those wllo and· onion rings so much is that help bring us together every week. they .always go so well with inter- sation always seems to start with someone ordering food or bring- ing home a peanut butter and fluff treasure from Price Chopper. It is honestly a strange phenom- enon. It is almost as if disco fries from Brandywine have some sort of secret elixir in them that pro- motes speech and laughter. No matter what time of the night it is, f<Jod is always welcome and al- ways has that same powerful ef- fect. We may all have 17labs due the next day, along with a midterm and two oral presentations, but none of that really seems to mat- ter. The aroma of chicken fingers {with honey mustard sauce of course) knocks on every door in the hallway, and no one is immune to its call. I am convinced that we alone keep the local fast food dis- trict in business, but I suppose ev- eryone on campus feels the same way too. --~~--~_,..----,..----~~-~--~~--~--~-----------~--1 esting conversation. I have learned so much about so many different people, gotten to the core of their hearts, seen them cry from joy and from pain. I am being terribly cheesy here, but the honest truth is that I have grown to love food because of the amaz- ing things it can do for a room of five silent girls. Whether it's cold leftover pizza, or a bag of Baked Lays, there is always some story hidden in one of those bites, and you just have to get to that one mouthful, and suddenly your voice has a new-found glitter. Pointless Observations Perspectives at the Nott: Weekly AA ~eetings by David Kay Staff Writer With the scare of a dry campus ' policy, it looks as if th~C entire freshman class is crying \false ad- vertising\ at the adminiE';tratlon. Who are we trying !O recruit to Union anyway, students concen- trated fully on academics?· U we plan on eliminating our reputation as a drinking school, why d()n't we go ahead and take other drastic measures as welL How about eliminating engineering fl'()m the curriculum? Maybe w~ could knock down the Nott Melll()rial- another creative alternative .. Here'san idea. We couldchange that shuttle that just started taking students to Crossgates and Albany ing for anything in return. Well, writing about Schenectady may have proved to be a stupid idea, considering th.at nearly a quarter of the class here is from the surrounding area. I'd have to admit, th.ouglt, anyone who has the time to write me hate mail or give me threatening calls about it should really find something to do. lfyoureaiJy have that l<indoftime, take some engineering <;ourses. My column isn;t exactly widely read or anything, so.( don't think you Ita veto worry about me influ- encing a11yone's opini<>n. Let's see ... the stack of letters 11asn 't been quite as high this week, but l don't know if I can include excerpts from each one. Here goes and he}Ve it make hourly :s!<Jps to \The administration is looking the hospital instead. I'm Sllreafair to provide more.activitiesonweek- number of freshman would find ends for students. In my opinion, good use of the service. the only activity thahvould draw Freshmen must have be~Cil in an large numbers o/ people would he. alc~>holichaze last Friday for rep... group AA meetings at the Nott resentative elections. Erill Aloan, Memorial on weekends. What do the girl who p11t up hundreds· of you think there, huddy? \ signs all around school a11d the A Well, if you're trying to draw the Plus last week came in third while largest number of peoJ)le, J think Dan Cox came in second. Dan Cox that's theonly way to go. With all put up maybe 50 signs at n10st, but the freshman alcoholics, maybe his reason for winning wa~; most we should make AA a required likely the creative aspect of his class nextyear, along with precept, signs. On them were a big,<lark pic~ and award three credits for it. ture of Dick Nixon and tl1e state- \Perhaps the professors in pre- ment, \You voted for D.ick,. now ceptorial class should teach ma- you~n vote for Cox.\ terial that would interest the [t doesn't say much for ()Urclass freshman class more. I suggest when someone expends tlle effort · they watch Cocktail, Leaving Las of putting up hundreds of signs all Vegas, and Dazed and Confused over the place only to finish run- while reading such literature as nerup to someone who had people Elementary Bartending. !hear that put up signs for him.l wisll J could the only parts of the Bi hle that have found people stupid enough freshmen are interested in are · topl:it up signs f()rlll.e withcut ask- those in which liquor is \!en- tioned\ I think you'reright. My pre<Jept class takes place early in the m()rn- ing, and most ()f my classmates just want to sleep. However, when my professor mentions alcohol~ you should see their eyes light 11p. It's as if they all slept like babies the night before. \What gives you the motivation to write the crap 1hatyou do eveJY week, eh? Didyozthaveadeprived childhood or something?\ No, I didn't have a \deprived\ childhood, my Canadian friend, but when l was in high school I had an advisor who stuck me as News Editor alid didn't let 1ne write my own opinions. I remelll- ber one. time I sttbrn itted an opill- ions article of mine in which after reading it, she put a big red line through it and threw it in the trasll. l'rn just taking <Jill my aggressioa from my high scl!ool days. \How can tile administr(l~ion propose such a strict alcohol policy? I think it's a little hypo- critical considering that one of ~hem was a lush in college. \ I didn't hear th.at, bu.tifyou say s(), I guess it W()Uid seem a little hypocritical. \How come there are so many freshmen hockey players on the team this year? Are any that good that they can h011e a real impact · on this year's team? \ This year's freshman class brings 13 sensational players, who plan on having about the same ~f­ fect on this year's hockey team· as theproposeds11bstance free policy would have had on West and Rich~ · rnond. Until next week, direct the ha:te . to 1058. There is a room where I live that we call the Florida Room. It's filled with a navy blue couch and navy blue, cushioned chairs. There is a long, horizontal mirror across one waU and a huge framed pic- ture of a b'tinGh of smiling faces · that I call my sisters on the oppo- site wall. --Before I started living there, those who lived there before me would tell me that someone ·was always in the Florida Room, no matter what time of day or night. I never really realized the implica- tions of this fact; but n<>w I know that I can come strolling into the house at four in the morning and find someone sitting on one of those navy blue chairs, ready to chat about the events of evening. It's because of this room that I · haven't slept before I AM since school started. {Last year, my roommate and I were usual1y in bed before 12!)lt'sbecauseofthis room that I am going to cry when l have to leave college at the end ofnext year to brave the rapids of medical school...,. We sit around and talk. We talk for hours about everything and nothing at all. Things come outof our mouths that are ridiculous yet so expected at the same time; we learn about each other and smile. We discover hidden fears, hidden talents, hidden parts of each other's personalities. Laughter fills · the air and settles quietly like smoke on a cold day. Everything is funny and nothing is ever held back. All oftbis beautiful conver- Things just start rolling from there. Food is like a catalyst for emotional discoveries and hyster- ics. After the empty sandwich wrappings and styrofoam contain- ers are thrown away, the stories still have a life of their own. I love to hear the latest gossip or some eqtlally amusing and embarrassing tale of someone falling down the stairs at a party and losing her skirt. There's nothing better than lean- ing into a whispering voice tell you that so-and-so is breaking up with Mr. X because he cheated on her with Evil Freshman Girl Y. So, the simple joy in my life re- cently has been the successful mastering of procrastination. When the last thing I want to do and the only thing I should do is finish reading about why iodide is agoodnucleQphile, I can run away from my textbook into a room full of friends. I have found happiness in the shelter of four walls, filled with friends and the ringing of in- cessant laughter in my ears. This is my solace; and I suppose it doesn't hurt to know that the Howler's man is on his way with a chicken parm sandwich and

Page 12 · October 23, 1997 · <ni!r QJ:ottcnri'lirJ.tsis : _ _ Features A Bit of Factual Fiction in an Otherwise Abn-ormal Life by Matt Aronowitz Sta,ff Writer Before I begin, I would like to comment on the recent events at the Concordy. First, Dave Kay, don't let any., body bring you down. You're a very funny writer with lots of po- tential, just keep spewing it out. Second, to all the people who have been offended .by Djahmbi and Mohmar and have written in to complain about them, you are doing exactly what they want. Think about it: they are two stu- dents in their last year here. They want to stir things up and annoy people. The best way to do that is to offend the same peopleoverand over again (example--the Israel tenn abroad). Third, this whole Thurberville thing is getting annoying. Let the man graduate in peace. What goes through people's heads? \Gee this Kay kid is trying to be sarcas- tically funny. Hmm, file under 'Rawson Thurber.\' Ifhehas been reading this paper in the real world, he must think that it is hysterical. Finally, to the dimwit who tried to blast my article in his letter a couple weeks ago, I am not proud of everything I do. I even com- mented at the end of my \Union the Great\ article about how bad it was. I just felt that handing in After a couple minutes I wasjump- find them. This disheartened me that article was better than hand- ing out ofmy mind. I had to find a little, so 1 made my way back ing in nothing. So; l don't under- them, So, I ran around the house home. stand exactly what point you were looking forJhem. I ran into Joe. I Everybody was watching Satur- trying to prove. I would have re- had no time to talk;.I had to find day Night Uve. 8y the way, that sponded to your slander fast week, them. They were gone. I was dev- show has gotten real good lately. but I didn't write an artic'le. Oh, astated. I suddenly had the urge I suggest watching it one ofth~se. and if you're reading this, then to go back to my humble abode, days. Anyway, the two lovers you're a hypocrite to be reading the Coffee House, I started to were embracing and the \hall such literary filth as mine. walk. The Nott grabbed my atten.,. mommy\ found out what was up Here is my attempt to write a r-~~-------~--~........., with me. She said, \Matt Michelle Tham/Reuel Daniels '' n l • Aronow Hz, hang out with us, reon e wereJam- type narrative. Wow, Reuel, :r and you'U have a good time .. \ that's a pretty cool name. Have ·• ming on their guitarS So, l watched SNL, and I you seen her face book picture? thought it was hysterical. Every She's a Cl:ltie. Anyway, here right next to me, but I skit was funny, and Norm goes. This may or may not be CO-U·l· dl'* 't h.ear .th·e\\ , McDonald's weekend update · true. ~ 11 h was one of the best ever. The I was sitting on a couch at the '---~--~----<----~~--..,.....J hour and a half went by in three fraternity when it started to kick tion with its nipular qualities. It minutes. in. Time started to go by ex- looked so beautiful, like it was i retired to my room. Ten min- tremely quickly. I had no clue breathing, The sky was a beauti- utes later, Derwin brought the what people were saying to me. ful shade of pink and the mo<>n black light into my room. It was People were jamming on their seemed to take up half the sky. really amazing seeing the room in guitars right next to me, hut I I had to close my eyes. As so()n a different perspective. I started couldn't hear them. Joe came and as 1 did, a wind rushed through to play computer solitaire. Some .. sat with us, and he started talking my brain. It felt so good. This time later, Derwin and his lady about how his father owns a paper was better than any roller coaster friend, \Christ came .in almost milL \I could get y()u free paper ride.. naked. We had a good laugh about ifyouwant,\hesaid. Wetalked Lostindeepthought,lsuddenly Derwin's b~re butt for a little for a while, but I could not con- realized that I ·had to go to while. Aftertheyleft,thethoughts tain myself. Every time he men- Jackson's Garden at once. As I came into my mind. I wanted my tionedpaperlwouldcrackup. As walked down the \Pedestrian girlfriendintheroom,butshewas soon as his face started to melt, he Walkway,\ the darkness turned at RPI for the night. I wanted to left. into crystals and the ground to hear about Paco's night, but I had My friends said that they would sand. I couldn't see a thing. I tried left him at the fraternity.. Bob be right back: I believed them. to go down the stairs, but Icouldn ~t Marley was srnoking a joint. So,. I 5°/~ Discount With Your .. Unio,n Colle~ge ID! \_. called Phil .at Rutgers. He wasn't home, so I ]eft a message for him to call me back as soon as he got in, no matter what time it was. l had to spe--ak to him. While 1 played solitaire, I listened to the same· song (3 11 's \Use ofTime\) on repeat f(}r over an hour. It seemedto give meadifferentmes- .sage every time. Phil evenJllally called and con- soled me. We reminisced about seeing Phis.h in Maine this sum- mer and retoJ.d every anecdote from that legendary weekend. I fe.)t a lot better. The ,thoughts came back, though_ .I realized that l expecttoo much from peQ.ple 'Wllo are on a differ- ent intelle.c1llal wavelength than me. l realiz:edthat sometimes sit- ting in total silence with a group of people was easier than making small talk. lre.alized that I had to urinate .real]y badly.· l.did and I felt like I b~d urinated all over myself. lk11e\W I hadn't, itjust'felt that way. At around 4:00 AM I felt real'ly drained, yet happy about my night. 1 fell asleep in a black- lit room listening to the new 311 album. The- d.reams that I had that night weren't oout ofthe ordinary, which surpris:ed me. Before I fell to unconsciousness, I realized how much work lha.d to finish the next day. • I , I ( tl h tJ b <I ( ( tt

:i)~g¢:l~·: ... (Jd~b-er·:23.,l9.~i7<~!r-e<!Initct1r~·h~l~si~ :.····<_:,:_. · ·:'·_·-.·. ·: ·,..,._ ·, ·.->·· · -_, ·. ···: · · . ·._ . :· . ·F~aiures· ' ~ ' ' ~ ' . . . . . ' . ' . . . . . ... . ' .• . ' ' ' ' '. '. .. ., ' . ' ~ . ' . . . . . ' ' A Bit of Factual Fiction in an Otherwise Abnormal Life by Matt Aronowitz Stt{ff 1Vriler Before I begin, I would like to comment on the recent events at the ( 'oncordy. First. Dave Kay, don't let any- body bring you down. You're a very funny writer with lots of po- tential. just keep spewing it out. Second, to all the people who have been offended by Djahmbi and Mohmar and have written in to complain about them, you are doing exactly what they want. Think about it: they are two stu- dents in their last year here. They want to stir things up and annoy people. The best way to do that is to offend the same people over and over again (example--the Israel term abroad). Third, this whole Thurberville thing is getting annoying. Let the man graduate in peace. What goes through people's heads? \Gee this Kay kid is trying to be sarcas- tically funny. Hmm, file under 'Rawson Thurber.'\ If he has been reading this paper in the real world, he must think that it is hysterical. Finally,. to the dimwit who tried to blast my article in his letter a couple weeks ago, I am not proud of everything I do. I even com- mented at the end of my \Union the Great\ article about how bad it was. I just felt that handing in After a couple minutes I was jump- find them. This disheartened me that article was better than hand- ing out of my mind. I had to find a little, so I made my way back ing in nothing. So, I don't under- them. So, I ran around the house home. stand exactly what point you were looking for them. I ran into Joe. I Everybody was watching Satur- trying to prove. I would have re- had no time to talk; I had to find day Night Live. By the way, that sponded to your slander last week, them. They were gone. I was dev- show has gotten real good lately. but I didn't write an article. Oh, astated. I suddenly had the urge I suggest wa~ching it one of these and if you're reading this, then to go back to my humble abode, days. Anyway, the two lovers you're a hypocrite to be reading the Coffee House. I started to were embracing and the \hall such literary filth as mine. walk. The Nott grabbed my atten- mommy'' found out what was up Here is my attempt to write a r---------------------. with me. She said, \Matt Michelle Tham/Reuel Daniels , Peonle were,·am- Aronowitz, hang out with us, type narrative. Wow, Reuel, r and you'll have a good time.\ that's a pretty cool name. Have ming on their guitarS So, I watched SNL, and I you seen her face book picture? thought it was hysterical. Every She's a cutie. Anyway, here right next to me, but I skit was funny, and Norm goes. This may or may not be COUfdn 'f h.ear them. ,, McDonald's weekend update true. was one of the best ever. The I was sitting on a couch at the L------------------' hour and a half went by in three fraternity when it started to kick tion with its nipular qualities. It minutes. in. Time started to go by ex- looked so beautiful, like it was I retired to my room. Ten min- tremely quickly. I had no clue breathing. The sky was a beauti- utes later, Derwin brought the what people were saying to me. ful shade of pink and the moon black light into my room. It was People were jamming on their seemed to take up half the sky. really amazing seeing the room in guitars right next to me, but I I had to close my eyes. As soon a different perspective. I started couldn't hear them. Joe came and as I did, a wind rushed through to play computer solitaire. Some- sat with us, and he started talking my brain. It felt so good. This time later, Derwin alild his lady about how his father owns a paper was better than any roller coaster friend, \Christ came in almost mill. \I could get you free paper ride. naked. We had a good laugh about if you want,\ he said. We talked Lost in deep thought, I suddenly Derwin's hare butt for a little for a while, but I could not con- realized that I had to go to while. After they left, the thoughts tain myself. Every time he men- Jackson's Garden at once. As I came into my mind. I wanted my tioned paper I would crack up. As walked down the \Pedestrian girlfriend in the room, but she was soon as his face started to melt, he Walkway,\ the darkness turned at RPI for the night I wanted to left. into crystals and the ground to hear about Paco's night, but I had My friends said that they would sand. I couldn't see a thing. I tried left him at the fraternity. Bob be right back. I believed them. to go down the stairs, but I couldn't Marley was smoking a joint. So, I Sales/Marketing Managemeut Training Program Entertainment Publicati(ms, Inc. is the Jeading publisher of di~rorles that provide savings on d~ travel and le.l$ur~ activities. \Vitllmore t.han 125 offices in the: lJ.S., Can.ada, Europe, Austn!Ji:a. and Latin Ameri~ Entertainment has !)~er l $00 ~n)l)loyeES W(lt'ki.ng to create one of the most JX!Pular programs il\ the indl.l.Stly. Entertainment is a wholly-owned subsidiary ofCUC International Inc. 1 a New York Stook Exchange corporation with r~ennes in m~ss of $'2 billion. Out Sal~ MIU'Ia.gernent Thl.ini:ng Pr~ offe~ outstanding individuals the opportunity to rwewe sales, marketing and managerial txab'dng in order~ rapidly adva.nc(! int~ mo1:1e ~nior rofes \\o'itnin 12 to 24 month:s! Jl.ff>u Hlllit!; We Qffer; • Strong a.cademic Cred4in~ • .!Mepth sales, product line, tilne ~.26 or better preterred) ~emtrat, ~mputer $,\'SWll.S aJid • ~:tor ~ri.all1~l1!b.ip businesl> ooncepts training m})Ol'l$ibillties • Ongoing sales and salt'$ ~ement • Omstal'ullng interperoon.al training and develo~nt attribute$ • Outstandi.ng CM~pens:ation :md lleoofit.t .. A~ilitY ro relocate requir-ed • f.:ntreprene\ll'ial, fast-pooed, fun &. U>rior sa.l€:s exp~>rimoo a didWto plus!) rewards-oriented environment J)()JJ 1 t Miss Y<Jur Opportun#g! Sign up for on cam~ b'tterviews or atk>nd our intonnation stt.'iion on Tutsday, O~r 28th at 7 p.m. m the Car~r Development Center, third floor, Old Chapel. If y6U can't attf!nd, plew send your re.mm~ t.t>: Entertain.menr Publications, Inc. 21~ Buttettield Road • Troy, MI 48084 Attll: P. Jepsen!Union • fax (248) 637-8976 L ______ Jfe ~proW Eli be an Equal UIJZJOn\UIUtu RN 1549 Carrie St. (1 Block From Union College) Union ~QUege Mug Nites Tue; Wed, Thu & ~ar .•. 9pm ~·12am·-·.,. ·_i 22-oz~ Drafts$r::so·;:~ Bud, Bud Lite, Labatt' s Bl~e· & .. -H..,._r~ ·. ·.cn-l ··K1~AnT·ft f .. ·.·· or ~·- ~*t!~'l; J)~);t!c~~ 5°/o Discount With Your - •' ' -. .Uni,on College-.I.D'! - called Phil at Rutgers. He wasn't home, so I left a message for him to call me back as soon as he got in, no matter what time it was. I had to speak to him. While I played solitaire, I listened to the same· song (311 's \Use of Time\) on repeat for over an hour. It seemed to give me a different mes- sage every time. Phil eventually called and con- soled me. We reminisced about seeing Phish in Maine this sum- mer and retold every anecdote from that legendary weekend. I felt a lot better. The thoughts came back, though. I realized that I expecttoo much from people who are on a differ- ent intellectual wavelength than me. I realized that sometimes sit- ting in total sileNce with a group of people was easier than making small talk. I real:ized that I had to urinate really badly. I _did and I felt like I !:lad urinated all over myself. I knew I hadn't, itjust felt that way. At around 4:00 AM I felt really drained, yet happy about my night. I fell asleep in a black- lit room listening to the new 311 album. The dreams that I had that night weren't out of the ordinary, which surprised me. Before I fell to unconsciousness, I realized how much work I had to finish the next day. 1' II r ( ( ( t

• Ad\'crtiscmcnts - U::lrc ([tmL\nroh·~tsis • October 23, 1997 • Page 13 I' H i ,\ l I I' I I '> ,, 1 ._, ( l l :-. II I\ I I I I\ I .\\ 3 :--, 'I I :-., \' I -., I I '\ l, OVER ONE MILLION OF THE BEST MINDS IN AMERICA HAVE ALREADY CHOSEN THE BEST . . ' ' . . - . ,. RETIREMENT SYSTEM. TIAA-CREF. \l\l Then it comes to planning a comfortable VV future, over 1.9 million of America's best and brightest count on TIAA-CREF. With $200 billion ill assets, we~re the world's largest retire· ment ctltnpar~y. the nation's leader in customer sat- isfaction:> and the overwhelming choice of people in education, research and related fields. The nason'! For nearly ao years, TIAA..:CR,Efl has introduced intelligent solutions to America's long-ter.rn planning nee~.ls. We, pioneered portable benefits. We invented the variable annuity and helped popularize the very concept of stock inve:st- ing for rl.!'tirement planning. Today, TIAA-CREF's ex.pertise offers an impressive range of ways to hdp you create a cotnfor.tab!e and secure tornorrQw. From t:he guar- antees of TlAA's tOJp...,rated Traditional Annuity\'<) to the additional gro\o'lth Qpportunities ofe:>1.1r vari- able investment aCCI)CUnts, you'll find the ,JJe:gibility and diversity you need to help you meet y<;>ur long~term goals. And tltey're all backed bysome of the most knO\vle<lge.able investment miUlagers in the industr.y; To learn more all-out tl•e world's premier retirement organizrstico11, speak to one of ol!r expert consultiUlts .,t 1 800 842-27?'6 (8 a.m.-ll p.m. ET \Woe~kdays). Or better still, speak to one .of yo11 r <:~>lleagues. Find O\U -why. when it comes to pl.alllnin15 for tomorrow, gre\it minds think alike. Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref:Hg ·~ .... ~·.'. iiii Ensuring the future for those who shape it.\\ •l~d l)ft ~ tdl\'ty'·<OCldUI•kd tn I~ lty.<in.!rcdl\p4:thltM-otgo1 U\·~h~th, ~ J tttpon<kAH~x~uN ~'ttall .ail~leiton-w•th T1M~REf. • OV!'IAA t•.orw <:tf ontv .. Ho.'ii\Jrul ~r . .,~mtWt•t~ ~~~ cu:f.:ntly ·rwiJJt• f;.i_sh.at ~1.\• ~~ th• ;ution ·, kMI·~.s•n:&p.mlt:nt r.atina. '*tt'IM~irot .-t.J.d,ty. RH.trid -t•wu~:AI*- ..:h.i(llt-~y\tt; ~btlily •• nd <>vt...IJ.Gnan.o,f·.,irn 0 tl>'ll\ IS.P<'notl. II~~ D•!t·CO: 1\AI\, Oul'f lSI 1'1\11\'• AM. M~·, fn,..,.,.. s.,.. .. , M.\ S!i,..f...U....! ....,._., TIAA'*P''\\\\\'\'\ b.:'..t by 11 .. t·f•i\'*~ll4l)')ft$ •IMii\Y- Tbc~ r-AilPf$ of1'JM,.q •ft 1muro~,nn' . to CRI{fbc' t~e 'fiAA·RC'.iJ·f'.cl.1k\A~cflt\lnt CR.Ktfcfg'ti~.r*•o.rul infe~t•ln:l.ftt TlM RcA if.4~t~r ~ou\' - dii,.til\\'\ ~Y TM:A.CRcF.P l~im._.d \\d luU•utlamlf:Wtvit~ ln(\. Health Caro. Those two words have , been the source of much di$cussion recently. Probably because we as a nation kne>w the importance of investing in a healthy future. So do millions ofpatients who choose chiropractic as their preferred source of hea.lth care. The chiropractic beliefs in fttness, nutrition. prevention, and natural maintenance make good sense. Wellness, you see, is the normal state ofbeiflg. New York State government agrees. They have recently passed the Insurance Equality biU that mandates ins\arance. coverage for chiropractic care. For over 75 years, New York Chiropractic College has upheld a tradition of c.xceUence in chiropractic higher education. Our combined traditions, ())d and new, have built the base from \vhich the chiropractic doctors ofthe future are created. Choose New York Chiropractic College. A healthy investment for tQday and tomorrow. Buy. Sel-1ilt' Compact D~cs • Tapes • I» Mix tapes Video Games · Martial Arts Movies Imports • New & Used Records . 377-~382 website: h~://m.capitatnevcomlcdeenttl.

\i : I: r lit ' OVER ONE MILLION OF THE BEST MINDS IN AMERICA HAVE ALREADY CHOSEN THE BEST RETIREMENT SYSTEM. TIAA-CREF. W hen it comes to planning a comtortable future, over 1.9 million of America's best and brightest c·ount on TlAi\-CRr:!:\'. With $200 billion in assets, we'r~ the wodd's l:u·gest retire- ment ~·ompany, the nation's leader in customer sat- isf:lction,., and the overwhelming choice of people in education, research and related fields. The reason'{ For nearly 80 years, TIAt\-CREF has irllroduced intdligent solutions to America's long·term planning needs. We pi<Jneered portable be·nef1ts. We invented the v•.u·iable .:mnuity and helped popularize tht:.· vcr:y r.:on~ept of stock invest- ing for retin~ment planning. Today, TIAA-CR EF's exp~rtise offers an imprt>ssive r.tnge of w;tys to help you create ;t comfortabl~ and secure tomorrow. From the guar·· antees of TIAA's top-rated Traditional Annuity\l) to the additional growth opportunities of our vari· able investment accounts, you'll find the flexibility and diversity you need to help you meet your long-term goals. And they're all backed by some of the most knowledgeable investment managers in the industry. To leam more about the world's premier retirement organization, speak to one of our expert consultants at I 800 8-42-2776 (8 a.m.- II p.m. ET weekdays). Or better still, speak to on-e of' your colleagues. Find cut why, when it comes to planning for tomorrow, great minds think alike. Visit us on the Internet at vvww.tiaa-cref.org Ensuring the future for those who shape it.s- •tu-aJ on~ •tt~V('Y, et~JU~·t.,.,/ tn l~ttl\ !Jy .• , ttotfrtJ.C'n<~l'l\l or-g,tniTAfiQtt m \'h~h 'lh~ 1lf '~'p:>M•lrnra C\lpr..- -o,..,,,.,u •. ..ruf~dton w1th TI.\A·CRt..t •\'riA.\ u. <~ru< (II .mi.\ ~ ~'h1r.Jful t1f ,·tJmthU'I.U. th41 t un~nd\• holtllhr- ht,:fl-t'~l mu-~t f,.um thl' .._.11on ·• k~•ns tnd~pornJ..nr r~t1na: \\~',k'll'\' fl)r U41t.1,ty •~1unJ 1n1.tUnl*nU d~fni~p--.)\'ng allllrry ..... nJ nv .. r~!l fln.tm ... I dtrnf\1: .. ·\\·· lS•il'f\t\\IUr) .'\. ,\\ 11ut ~' II\.\ A. f)ut'f » t•h.-1(»:. A.u,, MQ.O<.I.>··· tn\-ttlMI$ Seom~ .. : M.~. s ... n,Jar>el .. nJ f\(lot)r. Tfi\A'• IJU<*r.Ukn .en ~\o::tl b_..,. 1t• dum'•ll<li.'t<lft.g ~~..:l·k-· Theae' t'.llllll~\4 of 1 JA;\ .u fin uuunn.r t\~p.trn ,j., n(l\ ~~y h> <..RHf (tf ll.t TfAA R._.-..J f'..tl,d• .\....HXI11f CRt-;t' u·Ntli.·.tru\'*'ltl tntrt'C'tt• lrlo lht 1'1.AA Rt:.t' P.,.r,.tt A'(Wftl •H ,J,attliJUit>-lf by T1AA-CRf:F faHliVKfu . .J olJid lrutttutwn.d Stn'tC'ft lm: hn· •nOff .r~•rn ll\lf' tnfnl\tt' .. drnn. m .. luoftn • ho~.r ,..., .Ul<l ~~ 11~1\' , ..til f Ho;l M?.')-7;;1 ~ sfc't\~turt S-vYl ft'W' rht- ·~ ,.,.,... .• Re.t,J thr\ rut 1ll.lh'll ~a.rtfllll b.-fort \-'O.a lr\'<\1 ur Hltd mo!ll'.) Health Care. Those two words have been the source of much discussion rcccotly. Probably because we as a nati()n know the importance of investing in a healthy future. So do millions of patients who choose chiropractic as their preferred source of health care. The chiropractic beliefs in fitness, nutrition, prevention. and nat\1ral maintenance make go<xi sense. Wellness, you see, is the normal state ofbeing. New York State government agrees. They have recently passed the Insurance Equality bill that mandates insurance coverage f()r chiropractic care. For over 75 years, New York Chiropractic CoJJcgc has upheld a uadirion of excellence in chir()prnctic higher education. 0\tf combined uaditions, old and new, have built the base from which the chiropr:tctic doctors of the furure are crcaretl. Choose New York Chiropractic CoUegc. A healthy investment for today and tomorrow. Buy • SeD ·Trade Compact Discs· Tapes· DJ M~ Tapes Video Games · Martial Arts Movies Imports· New & Used Recor~ J71-838l website: http://www.capital.neVcomlcdcentrl

Page. 14 • Oc·tober· 23, 1997 • '<Irl!l' \!lnnroraimsts . . . . · . Arts~ Entertainment Ra,ting System Full Price ( 4 star~) Matinee Price (3 Stars) Rent It (2 Stars) Late Night TV (1 Star) I'd Rather Have a ... (0 Stars) Popcorn (112 Star) \IKNOWWHATYOU DID LAST SUMMER\ Starring Jennifer Love Hewitt Sarah Michelle Gellar Ryan Phillippe Freddie Prinze Jr. Directed by Jim Gillespie Rating Matinee Price and a Popcorn ( 3 Y2 stars}- The scene opens with four high school graduates enjoying their last summer together. Their future seems bright and promising, as they partake in one last night of reckless abandon. Everything changes, however, when a drunken accident turns their celebration into a nightmare. The victim's body is buried and a pact is made to never speak of it again. The events of that fateful night comes back to haunt them, for someone knows the truth. Un1,1ble to cope with her guilty conscious, Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt) returns from college a few days prior to the anniversary of the acciqent. In an envelope with no stamp, no postmark, and no return address is a piece of pa- per with the words \I Know What You Did Last Summer.\ This prompts her to seek out the other three guilty parties. However, when she tells Helen Schivers (Sa- . rah Michelle Gellar), Barry Cox (Ryan Phillippe) and Ray Brown (Freddie Prinze, Jr.) what has hap- pened, they think it is all a joke. It is obvious to them that someone \If you are going to bury the truth, make sure it stays buried.'' is just attempting to get them all riled up, because only they know the truth. It is only when a shadowy fig- ure carrying a hook enters their lives do they realize that perhaps they were not alone on the road that night. It become.s a race against time for these four friends to discover the identity of the man in the black fishing slicker- a diffi- cult feat in such a small fishing vil\- lage. Targeting the younger audience, the creators ofScream once again cast a heroine from Party Of Five. In her first stating role, Jennifer Love Hewitt tries to bre;:tk away from her role as Bailey's girlfriend on the TV drama. She fulfills the stereotypical role of the beautiful screaming victim. Since Hewitt is a brunette, every horror film needs. the token blond. Sarap Michelle Gellat fulfills this role, as the beauty queen girlfriend of the town's all star quarterback. One notch up from her illustrious career as Buffy on the TV series Buffy the Vam- pire Slayer, Gellar is the perfect victim for a psychotic madman. In fact, she screamed so well, that she . landed the roleofSidney'scolJege roommate in Scream 2. Her boy- friend in the film is played by Ryan Phillippe, who has also appeared in While Squall and Crimson Tide~ The role of Hewitt's boyfriend is filled by Freddie Prinze Jt., who is a rlobody. l Know What You Did Last Sum- mer follows the common trend of 1he modern herror movie .genre. Spearheaded by the enormous success of Scream in 1996, these new horror films seek to utilize mystery and suspense instead of merely gratuitous violence and gore. Traditionally, manyhorror films have consisted of some mimdless kHier on a rampage (i.e. Freddie, Jason, Michael Myers) whicl1 wi'll inevitably lead to seven or eight carbon copies of the first. The modern approach focuses :much more onthesuspense aspect, while still allowing for shock v~luekill­ ing. We felt that this movie h~td the same feel as Scream but with an interesting new plot Aimed at the younger generation, high school and college students will enjoy this movie. It takes a while to get go~ ing, as the first half ofthe moyie is spent building the story, so that the thrilling conclusion may un- fold. This is definitely a movie to see with a bunch offriends as a scream- ing audience greatly enhances the film. Having seen it this past Sat- urday in a sold out theater, it is the most fun we have had at a movie in a while. This does not mean that is a great movie, but it is entertaining. With an interesting plot and end- ing that will keep you screaming, we highly recemmend this film. And for the pure joy of being startled, it should be viewed on the big screen. · A Moment For Us When seei-ng a movie at Cross gates, we highly recommend frequenting the Chinese Buffet on Route 20, where for $6.00 you can eat all you want. Also,. if you are fed up with a five-dollar small Coca-Cola atthe theater, we recommend the Hagen Daaz in the food court. A large Coca-.Cola is a whopping 59 cents. A jacket for concealment is re- quired. Piece of advice: If the ticket girl asks you if that is a coke in your jacket, simply reply: \Why no, I'm just happy to see you.\ Ulrich Finds Success in Directing and Acting by Kimberly Rohback A&E £ditor Fred Ulrich has become a name that is synonymous with Union theater. Since his freshman year, he has taken an active role in the performing arts as an actor, as a director, and behind the Scenes. As a freshman, Ulrich performed a monologue in a Mountebank's Night of Scenes called The Night of Endings from The Actor 's Night- mare by Christopher Durang. He also performed in a one-act play, This Is A Test, directed by Douglas Schneider '98. During spring term of the same year, Ulrich perfonned in his first \big\ show-- Servant ofTwo Mas- ters by Michael Goldoney, directed by William Finlay. Ulrich perfonned the role of Silvio in this commedia delle arte piece. It was the first ma- jor show perfonned at the Yulman Theater. \The whole cast felt like they were a part of something big. We felt like we were breaking new ground, It was really fun shmoozing with important people.\ During his sophomore year Ulrich directed Six Degrees of Separation. This was a piece that he had been dreaming of directing for years. \I never wanted to act in it. I knew from the firsttime I read it that this was something I wanted to direct.\ Ulrich carefully selected his cast and production crew. The only faculty involvement in the pro· duction of this remarkable piece was Finlay's sponsorship for the course credit. \It was especially amazing because it was I 00% stu- dent run.\ Mountebanks provided the stu- dents money. There was student direction, student acting, and stu- dent production and design. The show completely sold out for four nights, and t\vo days after it closed there was a discussion group. with several scenes, a cabaret, and technical work at the Yuiman. He is starting offhis senior year as an actor. \It's strange because I haven't ·acted since my freshman year,\ Ulrich says. He will be performing the role ofSorin in Anton Chekov 's \Not only was this piece an incred~ The Seagull, directed by Sara ible piece of theater but it sent a Chazen. Sorin is an-old man who social message as welL It defined served for 28 years in the Russian a lot of things for my artistic abil- Law Courts. He ''never married, ity. I found out that I had some never became a writer;' but pro- artistic talent to offer the world. vides the rest of the characters with During the rehearsals, my cast the wisdom that comes only with hated me. It was more like a boot old age. camp, but in retrospect it was one Ulrich does an outstanding job of the most incredible and memo- in his vocal and physical w-ork in rable experiences of my life.\ portraying the age of this charac- After this Ulrich was \burned ter. out.\ Ulrich served his junior year \This is a very intense role, and as a co-moderator of Mountebanks, it scares me when I start thinking and he directed a scene from Hkehim,\saysUlrich Marred Bliss. Ulrich helped out to be performing a classic piece. \So far I consider The Seag11ll to be one of the best shows we'v'e ever done. It is an incredibly tal- ented cast ... and an amazing di- rector. Sara provides the cast with . ' . a fresh perspective. I think she's amazing. She has a passion for cre- ating an ensemble piece of work-- and having been a director I rec- ognize the beauty of theater as an ensemble piece.\ Ulrich says that the play \has a lot of great stuff. I · only hope that the audience . doesn't leave saying 'I didn~t get . it' because the first time I read it I didn't get it.\' Ulrich plans on seeking employ- mentaftergraduationin some kind liAPPr 'lb.:R .f.,'fltl.. of foundation work. He will work · O::a.BI(J>Btnd)o) .... FRE.E!. to attain his BA as a history major · with a minor in the performing arts. \I know that I don't want to ,go to graduate school for at least two years. Eventually I hope to attain my Ph.D. in history.\ Ulrich describes the growth of Union Theater as \tremendous.\ \We are averaging about tvvo to three shows atenn. Between fac- ulty, students, and MoJ;Jntebanks I think that the Theater is amazing.\ Ulrich jokingly commented, 4 'The only thing we don't need is a mu- sical. Everyone needs to cairn the f*@# down about it.\ He hopes that the department will continue to grow and to take even more people in, Fred Ulrich is an incredible taJ .. ent in every sense ofthe word. He loves what he does and continues to be a tremendous contributor to · the theater at Union College. Come see Fred Ulrich and other talented students in The· Seagull, starting October 29th FIAu.owEr!N Bwiror! <be. 31 & NO\( 1 COMMANDER COD¥ lbi.&FIOODY ComTmo N~ 1 nm BRUBECK BROTHERS RM.ll ANDY SUJdl.mRS ormPc:ltE Call 36l.rllll ftr aett'\b .-.a resBviilm 21/ Un»n Street Smmtd~yJ N.Y. at)sel Smi u I .

~e 1- le t- Ie in a g. :1- g, rl. tg 1e lt td m m a 1e ~e s. rl 1f n I I I At~ts & Entcrta.inmcnt · . . . , . · ·mt,c QI~lttrm·bicusis • October 23, 1997 • Page 15 Lori Greene's \State of the (Artistic) Union Address'' ~y Lori Greene A&E Editor This week's A&E section may .be a bit shorter than usual; it may lack the.usualluster and spread of articles :from aU art genres .. There is a reason for this, and in fact it has a great deal to do with Atis .and Entertainment on Union's Campus. This week, my coeditor and F, along with several other extremely dedi· cated Mountebanks members, spent day and night preparing the Yulman Theater for a \Night of Cocktails.\ Unfortunately, despit~ the over 600 posters that adorned the college center for a week and despite the caltlpus-wide voice mai.Jmost ofyou\3-3-7'ed of you do not know what I am talk- ing about. Don-'t .get me wrong. The turnout at last night's perfor- mance was overwhelming: for the first time since I've been here, we had more people than chair,s and almost ran out of programs. I'm afraid, however, that this was due more to the fact that the cast ofthe show included over 15 people, and if we all just invited a few friends. . . . So, there were still many of who misseclouton one of the .great- est theater events ·Of the term. Why? Wasitbecause theater sim- ply does n()t interest you? the shQW was free, so I doubt it Was because of tile high $5.00 price the 'rlleater Depart- ment cha~ges for their per- formances. Perhaps, you missed Clll6(}0ofthose post .. ers, altho11cgll that would . have been t(lugh., unless you haven't checked your· mailbox in a week . My point here is not tohara:ss you into . attending tbe next theater event at Union (Sea,gull, Seagull, Seag:ulf). My only objective in this article is te . make you aj)preciate better what goes 011.in that mysterious building deep inthecornerofcam- pus. Last week, while talking to a freshman pal of mine, l mentioned thattheshow tllat was coming up. She seemed intetested and. asked where it was. I toldher it was in the theater and she responded, \Where'sthat\l\ This crushed me. I had been spending six hours a day, negle<;ti11,g midterms and lab reports, in preparation tor this show. I had been pouring heart and soul, promising people my firstborn child, and harassing sound and light board operators to make. sure this show went smoothly, cmd I couldn't even be assured that pe()p(e knew where the building was. This attitude is not ex:dusive to theater events. The orchestra and choir do not get the credit and ac- knowledgment they deserve. When the show in the arts atrium changes, it does not draw the crowds it should. How many of you even knew there was an art: gallery on the second floor of the Nott? So many people atl)nion wonder what ''A Cocktail Party'' Of Sorts At Yulman by Maura Wittbold Staf/Wtiter This past weekend the Yulman Theatre was host to, \A Night of Cocktails.\ The foyer of the the- ater was adorned with priceless works of art created by the mem~ hers of Mount~bariks: The audience was .greeted at the door by the \Night of Cocktails\ cast and spent the following half hour minglirfg and drinking \mocktails.\ Cast members intro- duced themselves in character to the guests and received various responses from friends and strang- ers. Rebecca Thyress()n, a fresh .. man foundthe experience rather in- timidating,. stating \It was very awkward when strangers ap- proached me in character. At first I didn't realize what was going on, however, I found the characters quite amusing. I have never bee·n to a performance where I met the actors before the show. I fee) that it added a great deal of excitement. The cast's enthusiasm was conta- gi<>us.\ The performance was composed of three separate scenes, the first act of a three-act play, directed by Jen Roberts, Lori Greene and Kim Rohback. The cast was nine mem- bers StrQng. Michael Winn played Edward, a distraught husband try- ing desperately to find direction in his life after his wife leaves him. Maura Wittbold played Lavinia, Edwat.d'swife,..aconfusedand vuf· nerable woman, whose prides her- self solely upon her ability to en- tertain. Allis()n Evans played the \unidentified guest,\ a mysterious, uninvited guest at the cocktail party who seems to have a certain control over Edward and his visi- tors. Loti Greeneplayed Julia, Edward' and Lavinia'S.()lderand wiser mis- understood friend. Always the center of atten1ion, she seems to know everytllltlg. Celia, played by Kim Rohbacl<, is a naive, young artist who is ltlve with the older, married Edwar<l. She can not un- derStand why Edward wants to stay with Lavinia when they can- not possibly lJe in love. On the other hand is Peter,. played by Chris Welch, who is in love with Celia, who will him a second glance. He spends his time ·on stage trying to figure out wl1.ere things went wrong and how to win Celia back. The comic ofthe group is Alex, played by Nickl<.ammennan. He is the feminine ftie11d of Edward. and Lavinia, and als() a master in the kitchen. He complicatesmatters by showing up unex:pectedly, trying to helpout.andc()ok for Edward. The show centers on a cocktail party . .in the home of Edward and Lavinia, but when the guests ar- rive, Lavinia is nowhere to be found. Edward tries to cover her disappearance l>y inventing a sick aunt. aut in reaJity he knows that his wife has left ltim. The chaos of the cocktail party is made humor- ous by the elashing personalities of the various characters,. It is the diversity and the ch~mistry be- tWeen the characters that make the Cocktail Party so enjoyable to watch. When aH the guests have left the party the unexpected guest remains, ,, Although· Edward has no idea who this woman is, he is open with her and discusses his situation. She appears. to know all about his wife and promises to bring her back the next day. What she may not know is that Edward has been having an affair The next day, instead ofLavinia returning, all of the wacky guests come back, and again we have more · comic exchanges between tlte char- acters. Lavinia finally returns to Edward, who is on the verge ofa complete nervous breakdown. The play con- cludes with Edward goi11,g out of control and Lavinia waltzing over him, proving to the world that.she is far superior to her husband. A Cocktail Party provided the audience with a night ofhllm.or and wit, hysterical exchange between characters and plenty of physical comedy. The Mountebanks proved they are a committed and talented group of students, who are capable and ready to perfonn, direct and pro- duce. The entire evening was a wel- come change to the typicaltheater we had become accustomed to. there is to do here on the weekend besides go to parties. I am willing to bet that on any given weekend thereis ~orne fantastic arts happen- ing. Either in .the theater, be it Moun· · tehanks, Proctor's Too, or theater department produc· tions, in the Perfonning Arts Studio (Edward Villela's visit, dance practica perfor- mances), or in Memorial Chapel (Orchestra, Choir, Jazz ~nsemble ). Union students who are invo.lved in the arts are the . most energetic, dedicated, andambitimis students here. Here's the part where I get ·teary-eyed and thank you guys! I am speaking not only, but especially of our technical friend, Brian Jeakers, a technical genius, who gives up more time than is imaginable merelytomake sure we look and sound good on stage. I can also not forget our new freshman, Rasheet Pate), who took more than his share of abuse this past week. Well, boys, it worked! The show was a huge success! Of course, my heart goes out to the actors. Latenightsrnade us crazy, made us cry, and made us laugh a lot! l still cannot believe how im- passioned you all were and how much Work and focus you instilled into every line. I am electrified when I think of the seniors,. writ- ing theses and stiU '!lanaging to memotize pages of lines, and re- maining poised and calm all the while; the freshmen, waiting around for hours while we re- hearsed the same scene over and over, never getting to them until after midnight. To Kim and Jen, my co-directors in crime, what a long strange trip it's been! I hope we can all look back and remem- ber the fun, the work, and the re- sult! 1 urge you all to tum off the TV, put down the frisbee, and get out of your rooms! You will be amazed and impressed with the magic that takes place in that mys- terious building, hidden deep in the comer of campus. We would especially like to thank our editor-in-chief, Frank Rossi, who has just admitted that in his four years at Union, has never entered the Yulman Theater! Way to go, Frarlk! Union Students to Participate In Proctor's Nutcracker by Lori Greene Staff Writer Every winter, families all over the world flock to the theater to see a · Christmas favorite, The Nutcracker ,, and Schene~tady's Proctor's The- ater is no different. This year, .sev- eral Union students will beperfonn- ing in the dassicalbaUet, put on by the Northeast Ballet Company and performed at Proctor's Theater. These students include Jean Soutar '00, Justine Wiley '98~ Jen Brate '00 and Carrie Madsen ;99, arid Joanna Tai '00. I recently spoke to Tai, who will be dancing the Russian varia- tion, about her experiences as a dancer and as a part of this special performance. Tai, a sophomore from Queens, New York has been dancing since she was twelve years old when she participated mainly in acrobatics and tap classes. It wasn't until high school that she began her ballet career. At first she found ballet boring and was upset that it was a compulsory part of her high school's dance program, However, · in order to take part in the a4vanced Performing Arts program, she had to have ballet skills. Tai considers her high schoolballet teacher to be her greatest mentor. The teacher, an older woman is \an amazing woman! At sixty-plus years she's the most amazing dancer I've seen.\ Tai was made aware of the show through Darlene Meyers, artistic director of the Northeast Ballet Company and also the resident bat~ let instructor at Union. Tai has been taking the ballet practicum classes at Union since her freshman year. \Darlene Meyers keeps me danc- ing! She's always cheery and is always encouraging -tbe dancers.\ Tai appreciates the opportunity to keep up with her dance while at Union,. a school without a dance major. The dance program at Union, according to Tai, is a great program for people who want to dance, and who love dance but who do not want to make a career out of it. People at Union can ei- ther start dancing here with the Ballet I class or they can refine and continue their ba!Jet tech- nique. Tai also hopes to see more per- formances in the future of the dance department. She feels that perfonning is extremely important, even for beginning dancers. As for her own future, Tai is looking forward to continuing to dance, as a hobby. Shehopes to be danc- ing forever; commenting on her passion and its ability to keep one in shape. Rehearsals for the Nutcracker have already begun, weekly Sat- urday morning rehearsals were ftrst dreaded, but as Tai said, \It's so much fun, I get so sad when l have to go at the end of the after- noon.\ She is dancing with a partner for the firsttime, which is a new and exciting experience for her. The Nutcracker opens on De· cember lJih and runs the lJih an-d 14th. For ticket information call Proctor;s Theater. Go out and support Union's best and bright- est dancers in this .holiday mas· terpiece.

Page 16 • October 23, 1997 ~ '[ff~r C!lonrod~·irt~sis · . Arts & Entertainment An Uncommon Women Anything But A Common Play by Rebecca Thyresson Staff Writer Mountebanks presented \A Night of Cocktails\ Saturday Oc- tober 18th and Sunday October 19th in the Actor's Studio of the Yulman Theater. The theater was tumed into and artgallery for the evening and presented itself as a true party. Mocktails were also avaihtble at the cash bar along with finger foods. Semi-fonnal attire was sug- gested for Saturday night which made the atmospher.e even more authentic and enjoyable. The first play performed was a scene from Uncommon Women. This was a story about going to a liberal arts college for women and what is available to women once they graduate. It presented the im- mens~ variety between occupa- tions from being a house- wife toa writer. The Cast of An Uncom- mon Women included Amy Beth G ilaneau~ Casey, · Kristen Slavinski, Serra Tore, Heather Campbell, Jessica Newell, and Sang Yu. The play wasdirected by Sarah Friedtnall, class of '98. One of the characters, Kate, performed by Amy Beth Gilaneau, represented the power and prestige of a modem, working woman. The character of Samantha, per- fonned by Kristen Slavinski, .rep- resented the housewife. When slle had graduated from college she got married and began a family. Rather than concentrating on her career Samantha placed emphasis on her husband. Samantha and Kate were characters on other sides of the ofthe, four other women seemed to play was hard to act, but the ac- he aspiring to Kate's level since she tresses conquered that obstacle had \fulfilled\ her aspira- and worked extremely well to- tions. For example, at the end get~er. In the end, they presented of their performance Kate a scene that was realistic.\ was the first to depart and Personally, I found the play it- thereafter, the conversation · selfto be lacking in content. I could and enthusiasm seemed to not find the meat of the perfor., diminish. I found iliis to be mance. It seemed like a common the most interesting aspect rambling that would take. place in of Uncommon Women. dailylifeandyet, theweakdialogue Though it is supposed to be did not allow you to relate to the • a \feminist\ play it alse pre- eharacters. On the other hand, I sented the idea of male su- do not feel the simple conversa- to women. · tion is at fault to the cast. The truth . Many audience members of the matter is, the scene from · said that they found the play Uncommon Women gave the ac- ta be quite offensive due to the tresses m1thing to work with. In sexual content. The actresses had thatca.se, I commendtheir trials and tribulations in attempting to draw the audience into the minds of the has greatly c:xp~n-?-ed its used book section · · 950 State St., Schenectady • (518) 381-9183 Great bargains on l,OOO's ofbooks on the arts, cultures, environment~ textbooks, and for the general reader. We are currently selling a large librmy of African, African-American-, and Social Science..v hook.~ Some books are priced. 1\'le!llt seD at flat rates: Hard Cover- $2.00 0 Trade Paperback- $1.00 0 Popular Paperback- 50¢. Buy three, get mte.free! Open 9:30-5:00pm Wed.-Suri., open till 9:00pm on Thurs .• closed Mon., Tues. i blocks west of Route 146. In the same building as :the Whitehouse Flea Market, with over 50 other interesting shops. COME INTO MOTO PHOTO ·FOR SUPER.SAVI:NGS! Schenectady- 1041 State Street- 382-5776 - · . · ONEHOU/7 . , · ·. ·· . MO.TOPHO'TO · . ' ' f5ii% ii=F T I I I 84.88 8x10· E o.f n da Ec Fe M N( w da we inc CE \H ho1 arc niq rei• oth bel bet bru spo Car Ma oft WOI the Viii witl .ho~ mm A ball stra1 TI won to h SOIDI Yod Unh surp Satu went their spon phra! U11 tourr prac1 mont self· Unio wayc ning. ance after I Skidn sever; team run,\' game. seeth they' forget leami: team, seas or uni Regar gainec prize f The games Dutchl undefc feated Divisi Audin1

Sports · · . · . · . , . Z!flye Uiunc'l1rbiettsis • October 23, 19~7 • Page 17'. Villella Helps Union Hockey Learn Diversity Through Dance by l:lannab Blum St4/f Writer This past Tuesday, the members of the Union College Hockey Team were invited to attend a dance workshop conducted by Edward Villella.' Villella is the Founding Artistic Director of the Miami City Ballet and a form~r New York City Ballet dancer. World renowned, Villella has danced for four presidents, has won numerous natit:maf awards including an Emmy award for his CBS television production of \Harlequin and has received honorary degrees from six colleg~s around the country. _The workshop focused on tech- niques of dance and the olose-'knit relationship between dance and other athletics. Although some believe there is little connection between the grace ofdance and the brute force of hockey, th.e two sports are very much intertwined. Captain ofth_e Skating Dutchmen Mark Szucs showed Villella some of the Dutchmen's stretching and workout activities. For each of these cond:itioning exercises, Villella was :able to demonstrate, with the help .of his colleagues, . how dance. uses many of the same movements. A former. letter winner in base- ball and boxing, Villella is no stranger to contact sports. He.fo- cused on dance as a nonnalphysi- cal· activity that includes endur- ance.,. foc.us, and tremendous amounts of skilL The only differ- ence between these activities, Villella commented, is that danc- in~is 1 'not about tension andforce, it is about letting go.\ Like skat- ing and stick handling, dance is a form ef physical .language. Each movement makes a direct state- ment,. and these statements form a flu:idity of the language. Dance de- pends on \a place to depart from and a place to re- · turn to\ com- mented Villella as he showed the men on .the team the importance of both structure understanding of the body. Like hockey players, dancers must begin their .practices with a rigorous stretch that will enable them to move properly. The hockey team ·begins their stretch with a lengthening ofthe muscles, stretching to the ·floor by extend- ing theirarmsand legs to theirfar- thest positions. They then roll their necks, rotate specific joints and dance is· based on felk ritual. While other athletics have the free- dom. of expression in current fonn, dance has the restrictions ofusing lessons taught in the 17th century. Professional dancers practice their moves up to six hours a day, seven days a week. \You can't be lazy. Raw talent just won't cut it,\ com$ mented Villella. Trevor Koenig, the goalie for the BE==~-, Skating Dutch- . men, said, \Dance gives co- ordination and balance on your fee.t It gets you low and ready, and [teaches youi how to get the most out of your muscles.\ Many of the SkaHng Dutch- menfelt that tak- and grac~. \The ing ballet lessons body is aline .. To may have been finish the Jine the · awkward, yet af- toes must be terward they pointed.\ players stretch rluring their ballet lesson. (George Cuttita) agreed that it Thisisalsotrue in hockey. Each completetheirworkoutwith aero- was a fulfilling and enlightening stroke while skatingmusthe com- bic exercises that will wann their experience. Captain Ryan plete and accurate. Stan Mo·ore, muscles forthepracticeto foii()W. Campbell said \VilleUashowed us coach<uf the skating Dutchmen, The same is true for dancers. They the parallels between hockey and has always focused on the fluidity begin with a stretch of the anns and dance. He showed us that ballet is of skating and on enforcing that it legs with the help ofthe bar, then considered a sport.\ mustbe\pretty.'' One cannot play use butt~rfly positioning to work Although dance was a new ex- hockey well if he cannot skate the leg muscles and tq f()cus perience for some of these Skat- well, and one ,cannot skate well· heavily on the neck and back. ing Dutchmen, others felt right at unlesshehaspropertechniqueand ViHella also focused on h<>w home. Juniors Brent Ozarowski and MarkSzucs have both taken a dance class at Union. The class, \Dance in America,\ taught cul- ture and the influence of dance in American society. The steps that Villella taught also intriguedjun- ior Mark Will. When Will was asked what it was about the dance that intrigued him, he responded, \One of the greatest emphasis on hockey is balance. Dance is bal- ance.\ Will, who was in a ballet production at the age of six, eased into the awkward positions that seemed difficult for some of the other Dutchmen. Most difficult for them was keeping their backs straight while extending their muscles and leaning toward the ground. However, Villella en- sured these gentlemen that \this stuff is not what it is projected to be.\ Anybody can learn and en- joy the movements of dance. Some of the Skating Dutchmen went in with fears of embarrass- ment or worry, but few left with these worries. Rather, many felt positive in what they had learned, and felt a true sense of bonding with their fellow teammates. Villella seemed to thoroughly en- joy the experience as well. Villella, whose son graduated from Union in 1994 and who received an honorary degree the same year, feels a strong connection to Union and a sense of closeness to the college's students, athletes, and administrators. Wolne·n's Tennis Concludes· Season· Women's Soccer Hopes For NCAA Berth by Bri;:~n Ter.Unsky . Staff Writer The final weekend for the Union women's tennis team was thought to have he.en memorable and somewhat victorious at the New York State Tournament at Cornell University. However, since Union surprisingly arrived home early Saturday, something must have went wrong. When asked about their weekend, tile players re- sponded most commonly with the phrase \very disappointing.\ Union had been waiting for this tournament all season long and practicing for it for over two months. Even though the team it- self is considered very young, Union did not let that get in the way oftheirdetennination for win- ning. U niort showed true persever- ance throughout the season, even after losing tough matches against Skidmore and Hamilton. This per- severance helped to build up their team unity and spirit in the long run, when theywere on top of their game. Although the players may see the weekend as something that they would mostly likely want to forget about, it was actually a good learning experience for the young team, in anticipation of their next season. Union began their final 1997 season. ma~ches on Friday, at the New York State Women's Tour- nament. They came out with much enthusiasm in the first round. Union appeared strong for most of their singles matches, as they won five outofthe six singles matches played. Top-seed sophomore Cassie Lawton defeated her oppo- nent from William Smith 6-0, 6- 1, as did second-seed sophomore Jodi Uiberall, wining over her op- ponent from Ithaca College6-2, 6- 1. Other winners included junior Jen DeLucca, prevailing over her opponent (also from Ithaca) 7-5, 6-2; junior' Courtney Rogers, 6- 2,6-0 over her opponent from Geneseo, and senior Dawn Tessier, 6-0, 6-l over her opponent from R'. I.T. In the doubles draw, Union won two of their three matches. Lawton-DeLucca defeated R.P.L (6-0,7·6,7 ... 5); as did Uiberaii- Rubin over Geneseo ( 6-2, 6-1 ). \Friday was a great day: we won seven 01.1t of our nine matches,\ Coach Bill Scanlon said. As the draw was made for the second round on Saturday, Union's luck basically had no ex- istence. They Were paired up with schools such as Skidmore, Binghamton, Hamilton, and Vassar, which in the past have not been Union's favorite teams to play. Well, as history usually re- peats itself, Union wasUJ1success- · ful against these schools. Union lost all seven oftheir second-round matches, which consisted of five singi·es matches and two doubles matches. The losses ended Union's chances for advancing into the final round, ending a long but productive year. Top seed Cassie Lawton was not impressed with her play in the second round. \!was not happy with my play and the loss was very disappointed for me and the team,'' she said. Other players thought the sec- ond round was also very distress- ing. \We all had to play seeded players from. good colleges, and it was disappo.inting because we did ilotplay as well as we could have,\ Courtney Rogers said. This weekend was also an end by Geoff Sullivan Sports Editor This past weekend, the Union College Women's Soccer Team traveled up north to take on St. Lawrence and Clarks.on. With the end of the regular season, the Dutch women were looking to add more victories to their record, if there was to be any hope of mak- ing the NCAA tournament. Un- fortunately, the team vvas only able to gather one victory. Having trouble putting the ball .in the net, the Dutchwomeh tied a strong . Saints club, 1-1. In the St. Lawrence game, Union was unable to capitalize on their scoring. Their only goal of the game came from sophomore of a four year era for senior Dawn · · Katie Hayes, who put the ball past Tessier. She reflected, \I was very the Saints' goalkeeper ott an ·indi- sad, this being my last match ever rect kick that was defleded. \We for Union, hut it was a great four years, and as the saying goes 'all good thingsmustcometo an end.'\ As the racquets and balls are put away for the winter,. high hopes for the n.e-xt season are already in hand. \We wiH have a lot of re- turning players, so next' year wi1l probably be another exciting and successful seas~n,\ projects Jodi Uiberall. had plenty of opportunities and · simply could not put the ball in the net,\ said senior tri-captain Julie Barton. ''We dominated and un- f<>rtunately did not come away with a win.'' Once again, sopho- more goalkeeper Shanncn Powers kept her team in the game. She continues to play excellent soccer in the net and has hadastrong sec- ond season for the team. The next day, the Dotchwomen hoped to find the scming touch that has been absent in recent games. Clarkson was the opponent, and immediately into the game fresh- man Missy Matusewicz answered the call by finishing a perfect pass from sophomore Abby Harris. Matusewicz was far froln done. She went on to score two more goals and notched her first career hat trick. Also getting in on the scoring department was freshman Becky Brown, who scored her first collegiate career goal. \We needed to score first to give the team confidence,\ said Head Coach Briaa Speck. \There as been some frustration lately with our inability to score. It was good to see Abby and Missy getting us going.\ While the offense found their touch once again, the defense continued to play solid soccer in the back. As a unit, they h<tve been stingy as oflate, giving up no more than two goals a game. With one game remaining, the playeni are eyeing the NCAA tour- nament. Otherwise, the team will likely qualify for either the State or ECAC tournament. With a record of 8-4-1, post-season play is certain, but wPich tournament is anyone's guess. Football Loses First Game; Prepares For Tough Foes .... Continued From Page 20 Regardless, the Engineers re~ gained the Dutchmen Shoes, the prize for winning the rivalry. The Dutchmen's next three gameS> pose a major threat to the Dutchmen's record as they face undefeated Coast Guard, unde- feated Hartwick, and one-loss, Division II opponent Albany. Audino gave histeatn two choices after the game: they could cash in their chips and fold or they could put themselves back together and go 8-l. Audino stated, \It's back to the drawing board. There was something missing today. We were victims of our own mis- takes.\ The players agreed with Audino. J.unior defensive I ineman Jim Kochan said, ''We didn't expecUo lose this game. We didn't execute today. We turned the baH overand made a lot of mistakes. h Coast Guard, who was the last teatn to defeat Union before Sat- urday, has won two overtime vic- tories, including one against RPL Coast Guard's 26 sacks and tal- ented receiving core pose a threat to the Dutchmen, as sh()wn by the last NCAA East Regiot1 Poll. Th.e Dutchmen fell out of the latest East Region PoJI (see page 19), including outside ()fthe \Oth· ers Receiving Votes\ group. They also fell out of the Don Hansen Football Gazette Top 25. Ironi- cally, Rensselaer made its first ap- pearance in the regional poll as a team \receiving votes.\ Coast Guard moved up one slot to third place. Last year, Coast Guard visitedthen-third Union and beat them on their home turf. Eventually, Coast Guard made the playoffs. Union may be able to climb back into the poll with a vic- tory against such a highly-re- spected eastern team. :;..·

'' ~' } X-C Men Run Bests Throughout by lason Everett Staff Writer Slabich And Goveia Lead Way For Women's· X-·C The Union Men's Cross-Country Team traveled to Westfield, Massachusetts this past Saturday to compete in the Westfield Invitational for the first time. The men raced 8K {five miles) over the wickedly fast trail ~nd grass course. Prior to race time the men expected fast times, but nothing prepared them for what followed. Nine out of ten race and walked down several .runners in the last 800 meter; including afrustratedRPJ runner and an old high school teammate, t.o by Jason Ev~rett Staff Writer guys (you're off the team, Terry) ran personal bests by significant amounts, and the team finished seventh out of 16 teams. Soon ~fter the start of the men's race, it was apparent that it would be a fast race. Seniors Dave finish in 20th place, in a. personal best, by The Union Women's Cross .. Country 16 seconds. Goldberg's time of27:09 was Team traveled to Westfield, Massachusetts a seasonal best, by 24 seconds. Casey said, . • this past Saturday to compete in the \Jay proved that he could go out faster today Westfield Invitational.· The women raced and sustain probably go out five [minutes 5 K (3 .l miles) it, and can] low overthefairlyflat,. for any race from . dirt trail course. naw on.\ The women's Third in for · team finished a Union was juniar highly resp.ect.able Hugh Meyer, seventh out of 17 · who said that he . teams. \felt tired from Head Coach the week but was . Charlie Casey said ' able to take that he was advantage of the content with his · fa.st course·. j, t e a m ' s . Meyer ran a performance. \'I harriers was super senior Kelly Jam~~son. Jamieson, despite a nasty foo.Nelated injlllry, ran a tough race to finish 30th in her sea:soaal best 20:29. Coach C,a:sey commented tllat, \[Amy Jess, ;and Kelly] wer-e aU close togellter. Any one of tfucse three can be ultid'llr 20 in any g;iwelll week.\ Rounding JJllt the top five for the women ~Nas junior Katie MacDowell lllld senior All:is.()n Kunselman and Jay Goldberg went through the one-mile in 5:00 and 5:02 respectively, and although they slowed down slightly over the next four miles, they did not let up. really sweet race, was really happy achieving a .personal best by more than 40 with the overaU. seconds and cracking the 28:00 barrier with finish. Most ofthe a 40th place finish in 27:54. Casey said . teams were pretty stt:ong,andweracedsome Meyer's performance was \pretty of the better schools in New England.\ impressive.'' Fourth in for Union was junior Leading the way for the women once Kenny Scott, who ran a.38•second personal agairi this week was stand~out freshman best to finish 63rd in 28:34. Rounding out Amy Slabich. Although she did not top last the top ·five for the men was freshman Jon · week's ·sub-20-minute finish attheAibany Nieman, running a personal best as well by . Invitational, Slahich ran a gritty race to 25 seconds with a. 30:05 time. Joe Chan finish 18th in 20:03. Casey said that Amy finished in 30: 16, a personal best by more was \runner of the week, with her second than two minutes. Terry Chang, who did fastest time of the season.\ Ciolin10. MacDowell ra11 a terrific race as well with a 2l: 2 9 performance, while Ciolino ran an01ther notable race with a 21:31 finish. - Rounding out the top seven was j11nj()r Charity MacManaman in 21:36 aJl<i. sophomore Irene Kan in 22:41. The wollllen competed without junior Molly Hood, \W hi() will rejoin the team next week in the llP'I InvitationaL The women's results are as follows: n ~. Kunselman topped last week's prime- time perfonnance at the Albany Invitational by finishing in an outstanding lOth place in 26:40, a personal best by more than twenty seconds. Kunselman's time was the fastest for a Union runner since Nick Cc.mway's 26:51 last year at the Albany Invitational. Coach Charlie C~sey commented that \26:40 is a great performance for Dave ... first time under 27 [minutes].\ Kunselman received an award for his tenth- piace finish amidst the wild and obnoxious barks of the Union College faithfuL not have a personal best, rounded out the Right on Slabich's heels was talented Amy Slabich 20:03; 21. Jessica Go\\eia 20: I 0; 30. Kelly Jamieson 20:29; 60. k.atie MacDowell 21 :29; 62. Allison Ciolimo 21 :31; 66. Charity McManaman 21 :36~ ~&. Irene Kan22:4l; 99.MellisaMagner22.:4-4; 110. Emily Morse 23.:02; 121. Alex Podgomy 24;08; 14L Jen Schwartz 2$.::J 7; 150. Aimee Marko 26:13. varsity in 30: 17. · junior Jessica Goveia, who ran a tenacious Next in for the Union harriers was Jay Goldberg, who ran . a long-awaited breakthrough race. Goldberg ran a steady Times: 10. Dave Kunselman 26:40; Jay race, passing people throughout to finish a Goldberg 27:09; 40. Hugh Meyer 27:54; 63. superb 21st, in 20: I 0. Although Goveiaran Kenny Scott 28:34; 1 OJ. Jon Neiman 30:05; the same time as last week at SUNY Albany, 11 I. Joe Chan 30: 16; 113. Terry Chan Goveia appeared to return to her early- 30:17; 145!. Evan Jahn 32:06;' 154, Corey season fonn after injury lastweek. Mathis 32:40; 169. Alex Militello 35:22. Not far off the pace of Union's top two Union Coxswains Hold Their Own At the Head of the Charles_ . fJJJ . CDC Updates by Nickolas E. Papanickolas Staff Writer On Saturday, October 18th, the calm water and partly cloudy day hanging over Cambridge and Bos- ton, Massachusetts was a pleasant welcome for the crews and spec- tators participating at the Head -of the Charles Regatta. Last year, as many remember, the Head of the Charles was cancelled (or the first time in history, due to torrential downpours. The Head of the Charles has al- ways been a very prestigious event in the world ofrowing, particularly due to the size of the event, which was the largest one day regatta in the world. Now, however, there- gatta has been split into a two-day event, which can only lead to its growth. Union Crew has always looked upon the Head of the Charles as an important race, as the US Na- · tiona! team and many of the Divi- sion I schools participate in the events. The emphasis for this race lies on two important points. The first goal is to have fun and gain experience in racing. The second is to row hard and row well This race, like many others in the fall, is an important benchmark for the team. its fall and spring seasons. This allows the coaches to see how much the team has improved and how much more it has to improve, so as to obtain the ultimate goal of being the fastest crew in the spring. When rowers are asked about racing in the \Charles many re- spond with one of the following two comments. One, it is probably the fastest race of the fall season. This is due to the continual cheers heard from the crowds that line all three miles of the Charles River. The other response, given mainly by coxswains, is that this course is the trickiest and the most difficult course to maneuver. The turns throughout the course can and have cost certain teams up to more than twenty places in the final standings. Prior to the Head of the Charles, all four ofUnion 's coxswains were inexperienced in steering the course but had been preparing for more than a week, studying dia- grams and suggestions from coaches on how to maneuver the course. Meanwhile, Union crews continued making large strides to- ward improved rowing. also ro-wed well, until Boston College's crew ran over the seven man's oar, slowing the Union boat down for a short period of time before they regrouped to finish with a time of 16:23.33. Last on Saturday was the open women's crew, which maneuvered the . com;se without problems to finish in 18:24.60. On Sunday, Union again put to.,. gether three boats, but this time they were rowing under the name \Star & Crescent,\ Union's affili- ated boat club. The first race, the Lightweight Men's four, which consisted of all alumni, rowed a strong race to finish in 1.6:50.90, sixth overall in the race. Carttr D~~ Cnrtt ••• Visit our website at \http: www.unlon.edu/career/eddcde.btml · foran the latest events. TONIGH11,RIPAIIMG A PERSONAL STATEMENT . FOR lAW SCHOOL \\ith Prof. Weiner at 7pm Ia RCC 205. . TONIGH11 CAIIIISIN FINANCE with am Curtin, · Alumnus; ManagJng Director, Putnam Investment Securities at 9pm In RCC20S. · DELAYINC~IDIW. SCHOOL APPLICATIONS? WHAT TO tO IN THI MEANTIME. Panel of alumni presenting different program options at 4pm on Oet. 24 in Bailey 300i The Lightweight Men's eight had an impressive showing, finish- ing in 16:44.48, only 21 seconds behind Onion's heavyweight time. Note that just as the Lightweight . eight passed under Week's Bridge, it was pinched to a halt. by two KAPLAN PRACTICE TESTS will be offered for the ORE, crews on either side taking bad . · LSAT, and GMATon Saturday, Oet. 25 at lOam In 88104. turns. This collision slowed the eight down for a good five to ten seconds. Finally, the Women's INTERTAINMIN'f PUILI(4110NS wil1 be interviewing Lightweight eigh~ finished the day on-campus forsales ffi!lttlloement training program msJtlons. Drop withatimeof2l:l6.96. --&~ 1'\\' Overall, the Union Crew Team . your resu~and sign up for an interview by Monday Oct. 21. rowed well and had a blast in the · process. The coxswains,. admit- THI'- wa· IL LOO. It .... ltl! ... ON You· R .R· EtfUMEI tedly terrified by the course, . · · 11 . It .. ....,... .. ·. 11 • stepped up to the challenge and · INTERNSHIP WORKSHOP How to find aoo secure intern· proved that they had the skills to sllips to bolster your work etMrieftre at 7:30pm on Tuesday, Oct 28 l. The results of the race are com- pared to the results of the other teams. which Union. races during Oil Saturday, Union raced three boats--the women's open four and themen's& women's open eights.. In the first race, the women's open four rowed very well, passing boats as they trudged down the course and finishing the race in 21:06.31. The op~n men.'s eight handle the Charles and all the ob- ·-r- stacles set upon them by other .. L.;at:;.;tl;;.. te._CDC_.· · . .,. .•• .._ ..... _ .... ...._...._ .... __ _. __ .._. ......... _ _. crews. t ~ s r f

Sports · · · ill!p: <Lmu:~1rl'\iwsis • October 23,1997 • Page 19 The Cleveland Indians evened th~ World Series on Sunday night in Florida, one game a piece, thanks to the pitching performance of starter Chad Ogea. He stifled the MarHns bats with six and two- thiras innings of seven-hit ball, leading the Indians to a 6-l vic- tory over ace Kevin Brown. Cleveland is going home with a split as they did in their t1rst two series against tile Yankees and the Orioles. The l'ndians reached Florida's top pitcher in the first inning for a run, scored another three in the fifth, and scored their last two on a horne run by Sandy Alomar Jr. Brown had gone 9·0 with a 1.96 BRA including three playoff starts. 'fhe Indians have always been a nemesis for him, with a lifetime seven wins and ten losses against their potent lineup. Ogea was the story of this game and is the big reason Cleveland is going back to Jacobs Field even in the Series. He has pitched in bjg games and won before, such as in the 1981 NCAA (!hampion .. ship game when he was at LSU. Games three; four, and five are set for Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday evenings at 8:00PM in C'levelancf, ·'¥here the weather co~lq play a huge factor. Tem- peratures are expected to be in the 30'~ • .wi~hshowers and snow flur~. ries~ possible. · Lt was quite a con- 'ttastto the game-time temperature in Florida of game two, which was 77 degrees. . . _ The Denwr Broncos suffered their first loss of the season at the tmnds of their arch iival, Oakland Raiders, 28·25. Oakland's safety Etic Turner returned a John Elway fumble 65 yards for the go-ahead touchGown in the third quarter. In the f(lurth; running back Napoleon Kaufman put the gatne away With an 83-yard scrunper f<:>r a touch- down. Kaufman rushed for a team-record 227yards. The Raid- ers improved their record to 3-4, and the Broncos dropped to 6.-1. The victory by the Raiders was the biggest upset sa far in the NFL. Oakland converted a third and :ten from their 12-yard line late in the game on a pass from quarterback JeffGeorge to wide receiver Tim Brown. Thepasswas good for 15 yards and a first down .. - .and the game. Hale Irwin tied the Senior PGA Tour season tecordth·iS past Sun- day by making the Kaanapali (Ha- waii) Classic his ninth win of 1997. Irwin pushed his 97' earnings to $2,131,364 with the $127,500 winner's check. He shot a one-un- der-par 70 to finish at 13-under- 200, three strokes ahead of Mike HilL The amazing Hale has nine wins in 21 starts, th:is year includ- ing. five in his last ~ight. He is the first golfer to surpass the $2 mil· lion mark. It could be argued that Hale nashadabiggeryearthan the PGA's Tiger Woods. It will be along time before any- one c()mes close to having the sea- san lrwin has had. College football has a new num- ber one, and it is not because Penn State lost this past Saturday to Minne-sota. The Nitt<my Lions managed to beat the lowly Go- phers 16~15, which did not impress many of the voters. Nebraska is your new number-one team, ham- mering Texas Tech 29-0 to over- t~ke Penn State and become the new number-one team in the na- tion. Rounding out the top are Florida State; North Carolina; and Michigan. Don't be shocked if every contending team forthe na- tional championship has a loss. Florida State and North Carolina still have to play. Michigan still has to face MiChigan State, Ohio State, and Penn State. The Nittany Lions have meetings left with Michigan and the Spartans. Washington State, who is unde- feated has to go into Husky sta- dium and square off against Wash- ington. The only team not to be ntentionedso far is Nebraska, who has the easiest schedule remain- ing and is number one. They have the best chance of running the table and being unde- feated going into the national championship game in the Orange Bowl on January 2\d. . Field Hockey Looks For Playoff Berth by Stefanie Speanburg St«ff Writer After a disappointing week of losses against Roches!er and Wil~ liam Smith, the field hockey team bounced back, defeating Vassar and Oswego. The team has expe- rienced a roller-coaster of wins and losses, yet has maintained a near . 500 record .. Adjustment to new coaching approaches and development of team dynamics takes time. AI,. though the record appears incon- sistent, Union's playing has con- , sistently improved. Coach Linda Bevelander comments, \[The team] is starting to see the trees, notjustthe fores1.\ On Wednesday, Union defeated Vassar (whose record is 7-4) 5-1. Goals were scored by Jackie Eatz, Susan Joyal, GinaLupino, and two by Tanya Capparello. Freshman \ ~ Erica Browne made her debut on \The team played a great game. defense and contributed tremen- They started to put the pieces of dously. The defense and goalie the puzzle together--passing, tran- Rachel Rothschild warded off sition and marking. They played Vassar's attack. a high-quality game,\ Bevelander Union's Dutchwomenattacked states. Vassar with 30 shots on goal and Saturday proved to be another were awarded 17 penalty corners. victorious day for the Men's Soccer Week In Review ... From Page 20 ings and fell into a hole they could not climb out of. In the first minute of play, St. Lawrence took the baiJ directly down the field and scored. Now, no matter who is playing, no goals should be scored in the first minute of a soccer game; and by allowing this goal to be scored, Union was immediately put back on their heels. Attempts at recovering from this goal, the squad tried to move the ball up-field, but the overpow- ering St. Lawrence team allowed the Dutchmen no space to breathe and continued to dominate offen- sively. Although Ibrahim Adamu, Union's top scorer, was able to score a goal late in the second half, the outcome of this contest was decided early ill the game, as St. Lawrence netted three first-half goals and never looked back from there. This was the type of game that shows the level of competition throughout Union's league and gives their program something to strive fur, but on this day the Gar- net and White were clearly out- pl~_x~t~.-\. . , ... ' ·, ., ... ,\\~'''· ·' .. . . Union 1- Clark&on 0 (20T) Coming off their disappointing loss and poor performance against St. Lawrence, Union was in des- perate need of a victory. Once again, they faced a strong oppo- nent and played yet another game that could have gone either way. Throughout regulation and both overtirnes, both teams played out- standing soccer. The strong de- fense displayed by both squads kept the score-board empty for all ofregulation and the first overtime perio<l. After over two hours of play, though, an outstanding offen- sive effort by Union provided the opp()rtunity they needed to net the game's only goal As Clarkson carried the ball up-field, Michael Perrino intercepted a pass and moved the ball forward to fel1ow teammate Bryn Heath. Heath then carried the ball up- field,. passed the ball to Adamu, who in tum moved the ball back to Heath, giving Heath a clear shot at the goal from eight yards away. Heath easily defeated a helpless goalkeeper and placed the ball in · ·. ·: .:·l\\'J,:t··:..:-·~~ ... -•. ~ 4 \'•t· .•1~-~~ .;-··~~ ... _--;,•.;·-~~,·.:J.:-; .... v .\:'~:::' the top comer of the net-. thus end- ing th,is eternal game on a beauti- ful give-and-go play. This victory put a somewhat positive spin on an otherwise dis- appointing week and although the team has their backs clearly against the wall, this kept their dim playoff hopes alive. While it is somewhat unrealistic to believe that Union will defeat both the University of Rochester and Middlebury, two top-notch pro- grams, the possibility is there, and should Union defeat ane or both of these teams~ they still have a slim chance of being selected for the ECAC Tournament. Should the team reach this goal, it will be · a milestone in their season and for · the Union soccer program .. Although the team may not reach the playoffs this season, their hope of posting a .500 record is still very much a reality, and • should they achieve this goal, no player on the team should be dis- appointed. Their efforts throughout the sea- son have been extremely com- mendable. .GWtno Dutch:women, as they succeeded in their challenge against Oswego 5-2. Amy Paolone, Julie Williams, Carrie Heroth,. and Jackie Eatz · each scored one goal. Tanya Capparello, after making one goal and three assists, has tal- lied 18 points this season as top · scorer.. Everyone had the oppor- tunity to .participate in the game, and Brooke Schoener made her first appearance on defense . Pleased with everyone's playing, Bevelander says, \Overall our scores don't reflect the level or intensity of our play.\ The team plays Hartwick, which is now ranked fifth at midweek. A win could promise post-season play for the Dutchwomen--a re- ward fora tough season. Bevelandet is ready to meet the Football 10/25 at Coast Guard 1 :30PM (Jayvee Off Until November 2nd) Men~ Soccer 10/28 vs. Middlebury 2:00PM Women's Soccer 10/25 vs. New Paltz 1:OOPM (Regular Season Concludes) challenge, \We're as ready as we 1-------------1 are going to be. We just came off two wins, and we've been improv- ing every game.\ Field Hockey Regular Season Concluded Wednesday, October 22nd Volleyball 10/25 at Binghamton 10:00AM 10/28 at Albany 7:00PM Men's Ice Hockey 10/25 at Providence 7:00PM 1) Rowan (New Jersey) 5-0 2) Cortland (New York) 5-1 3) Coast Guard (Connecticut) 6-0 · 4) Ithaca (New York) 5-1 5) Plymouth State (Massachusetts) 5-1 6) King•s Point (New York) 5-1 Otllers Receiving Votes (listed alpl1abetically): Brockport State (NY),Buflalo State (NY), Montclair State (NJ), College of New Jersey, andRensselaer (NY) (At end of season, the top four in each region

'<i_ 111 I Dutchmen Lose Shoes And Winning Streaks Team Attempts to Regroup Before Fa:cing Tough Teams by FrQnk Rossi Editor..,in.-ChieJ · You can't win them all, espe .. cially against your arch rival. The Union College Fighting Dutchmen found this out last Saturday when the RPI Engineers ended a four- game losing streak to the Dutch- men in a :39-7 victory. The loss, which moved. both teams to 4-:l, also ended a ten- game road· streak, a ten-game UCAA streak, and a seven-game overall winning streak by the Dutchmen. It also puts Union in jeopardy of losing the UCAA race for the first time, as the Dutchm.en are assured of a 3-1 finish in their conference. RPI, currently 2-0, has two games to go. (There is no tie-breaker in the UCAA .. ) Union Head Coach John Audino blamed the loss on Union's mis- ~~:::::_:~~~~- Freshman rum1ing hack Denni$ Sanabia was one ofthe bright spotsfot the Dutclmzen. (Aaron Braunstein!TC) takes, including three key turn- overs. \We gave them 14 free points,\ he said. The first turnover occurred dur- ing the third play from scrimmage for the Dutchmen w.heii running back Joe Latella fumbled the ball after running into a pile up the m iddJe. . The Engineers took the ball over at the 37-yard line, and one play later the score became RPI 7, Union 0. Sophomore quar- terback Matt Robbens tossed a pass to senior running back Dan ~cGaov~~i~s ~:~~~~e~~~ Sco.fe ·By t-Jtj~ft~~!;~,;: ~i~:gt~hee~;~_ct;a~~-~~~: McGovern,. who was co- '1 -·~ 3 4· , ·:.'f.: :.: L~tella ran up the middle to UCAA Player of the Year - - .. , ·'· :: tie up the score. last season, caught the pass Uni.on , . 1 0 '. ·.·· Q . :·:,.JJ.'., '\'\ : ... J,~'~,;, In the second qwarter, nei- and saw nothing but day- RPI 7 _ 0 ,, .. ,, 14 , g:• ;,;,>··.:SQ:i'·· therteamscored. ~owever, light. L-........,..;..;..;.......,_......_ ....... _.... ....... _. .............. ;.;., .................. ..._ .... .,. •.. ...,. ................. , .. ,w .............. .,.. •.. · RPI Coach Joe K.mg opted After a botched punt snap by the end-zone. Following an Engi- not to kick a field goal on a fourth Rensselaer, Union had an oppor- neer punt, the Dutchmen took the and three from the Union 18. The tunity to tie the game. After driv- ball over at their own 28. Fresh- Engineers did not convert, and it ing to the four-yard line, junior man running back Dennis Sanabia helped lead to a 7-7 halftime tie. quarterback Tom McKeown rolled played during a majority of the The Dutchmen had a chance to left and threw an interception in drive, and played a large role in take the_ iead in the second half . after fon;:ing the Engineers to punt, · but sophomore returnt:r Joe Attanasio muffed the punt, and RPI regained possession at the Union24. This led to a touchdown pass by Robbens and a 14-7 Engi- neer lead. Union was stagnant on · t}:leir next possession, bl!t RPI was . not. They needed to simply drive _ 40 yards for another Robbens touchdown pass. Union had an opportunity to climb back into the ball game af- . ter senior receiver and former · quarterback Ryan Smith threw an option pass down-field to senior Marc Heller. Union was unable · to crack the Engineer defense, however, and the score remained 21-7 when the Dutchmen dropped . the ball on downs. In the fourth quarter, Tom McKeown was sacked in the end- zone by UCAA Honor Roll mem- ber Glenn Arnold, to increase the Engineer lead. to 16. RPI added one final touchdown in a contro,. versial fashion, with 33 seconds re- maining, to make the. final score 30-7. The touchdown was contro- versial because, with 90 seconds remaining, the Engineers threw a pass from the four-yard line. Audino was not happy about the Engineers; play call, buthe refused to comment beyond stating, \I don'tthink it was Joe King'scall.\ · continu.ed on page 17 Men's Soccer Wins Squeaker In Doubt~ Overtime Sophomore Bryn Heath Scored Goal To Put Away Clarks·on by David Wei11er Staff Writer Prior to this season, Coach Jeff Guinn had high expectations ·for his young soccer team. He be- lieved that they possessed the skill, the desire, and the ability to have an extremely successful season and, quite possibly, to reach either the ECAC or the NCAA Tourna- ments. However, in voicing these aspirations, he knew i11 his mind that his players were young and somewhat inexperienced at this level of competition, and that in or- der to reach his goals, the team would need flawless efforts in all of their contests. Having such a youthful squad, Guinn;s realistic goals were to have his players learn each others' styles of play, grow together, and teach them the phii(}Sophy he wants practiced as they play to- gether for the next two or three years. ThtlS, he understood that the team would lose its share of games, yet he also expected them to win a fair amount a, in the future,s well. His genuine hope was for a .500 season or better, and his team is exactly where he wanted them to be. A !though they struggled through a week in which they faced theirtoughest competition of the season and in which the out- comes seemingly decided their playoff fate, the Dutch- men put for r h co m • mend- ab·le ef· forts in losses to RIT and s t Lawrence,. 6-1 and l~O re- s p e c ~. RJT 1- Union 0 Union. Thn>ugh most of this contest, it From the first whistle to the fi- was clear that either team, by way (}fmerely one goal, could t a k e home the victory. 0 n c e again, however, luck was notonthe Union si,de, as RiFf net- te;rl the lone goal .oJ th,e contest early in the sec- ond half. Despite this set- tively, a n d showed glimpses of bril- liancy in their 1-0 victory o v e r Clarkson. b a c ... k, Junior Ibrahim A damn had an assist. In Saturday's winning goal (Laurie Ki~schnerfl'C) U n i o n · ·· · · contin- In the end of the game, the wins and losses are the only things that people see, but the heart with which this team played is truly what gives them hope for the rest of this season and the seasons to come. ual buzzer, this game was close,. ued to fight, and with five minutes as both teams continually created remainjng had the opportunity scoring opportunities for them- they were looking for as the ball selves. and carried the flow of play rolled towards and abn<>st across up and down the field. The only the goal line before the RIT goal- unfortunate part is that 011e team keeper snatched it up an.d took the had to win, and that team was not '}'ind out of the Dutchmen sails. That goal would have sent the game into overtime, but instead, RIT walked away with a solid, hard-fought victory. While the majority of this game was played ev-enly, Union seem- ingly dominated the pace of play for the final twenty minutes. The team earned more corner kicks, tested the RIT goalkeeper often, and gave themselves every chance to .net the needed goal, but just could not find the back of the net. The loss was extremely unlucky, but their strong play set them for- ward on the right foot for what posed to be their hardest game of the season versus St. Lawrence. St. Lawrence 6 - Union 1 St. Lawrence is a team consid- ered by coach Guinn and numer- ous others to be the best in the re- gion. Their soccer program has not lost a game in over two sea- sons and continually dominates their league. This was evident throughout the contest, as Union was dearly in over their heads. This game began on the wrong foot for Union and never im- proved. Similar to eatl'ier games in tbe season, the Dutchmen came out a bit sluggish_ in the early go- cQntinuedon page. 19 I ·( s { r '

Dutchmen Lose Shoes And Winning Streaks Tea111 AtteJJlpJ~· to Regroup BefoJ·e F(lCil:lg Toug·/1 Tea111S by Frank Rossi Editor-in-Chief You can't win them all, espe- cially against your arch rival. The Union College Fighting Dl:ltchmen found this out last Saturday when the RPI Engineers ended a four- game losing streak to the Dutch- men in a 30-7 victory. The loss, which moved both teams to 4-l, also ended a ten- game road streak, a ten-game .. UCAA streak, and a seven-game overall winning streak by the Dutchmen. It also puts Union in jeopardy of losing the UCAA race for the first time, as the Dutchmen are assured of a 3-1 finish in their conference. RPI, curreAtly 2-0, has two games to go. (There is no tie-breaker in the UCAA.) Union Head Coach John Audino blamed the loss on Union's mis- takes, including three key turn- overs. \We gave them 14 free points,\ he said. The first turnover occurred dur- ing the third play from scrimmage for the Dutchmen when running back Joe Latella fumbled the ball after running into a pile up the middle. The Engineers took the ball over at the 37-yard line, and one play later the score became RPI 7, Union 0. Sophomore quar- terback Matt Robbens tossed a pass to senior running back Dan Freshman rllntring back Dennis Sanabia was one of the bright spots for the Dutchmen. (Aaron Braunstein/TC) McGovern as he came out Score Bv Quarters driving the ball down-field. of a split lnck-field. L From the two-yard line, McGovern, who was co- 1 2 3 4 _f Latella ran up the middle to UCAA Player of the Year tie up the score. last season, ca:ught the pass Union 7 0 0 0 • 7 In the second quarter, nei- and saw nothing but day- RPI ~ 7 Q 14 g • JO ther team scored. However, light. L----------------------1 RPI Coach Joe King opted After a botched punt snap by the end-zone. Following an Engi- not to kick a field goal on a fourth Rensselaer, U11ion had an oppor- neer punt, the Dutchmen took the and three from the Union 18. The tunity to tie the game. After driv- ball over at their own 28. Fresh- Engineers did not convert, and it ing to the fo11r-yard line, junior man running back Dennis Sanabia helped lead to a 7-7 halftime tie. quarterback Tom McKeown rolled played during a majority of the The Dutchmen had a chance to left and threw an interception in drive, and played a large role in take the lead in the second half after forcing the Engineers to pun.t, but sophomore returNer Joe Attanasio muffed the p1:1n:t, and RPI regained possession at the Union 24. This led to a to-uchdown pass by Robbens and a 14-7 Engi- neer lead. Union was stagnant on their next possession, but RPI was not. They needed to sirn ply drive 40 yards for another Robbens touchdown pass. Union had an opportunity to climb back into the ball game af- ter senior receiver a11d former quarterback Ryan Smith threw an option pass down-field to senior Marc Heller. Union was u!'lable to crack the Engineer defense, however, and the score remained 21-7 when the Dutchmen dropped the ball on downs. In the fourth quarter, Tom McKeown was sacked in the end- zone by UCAA Honor Roll mem- ber Glenn Arnold, to increase the Engineer lead to 16. RPI added one final touchdown in a contro- versial fashion, with 3 3 seconds re- maining, to make the fi11al score 30-7. The touchdown was contro- versial because, witll 90 seconds remaining, the Engineers threw a pass from the four-yard line. Audino was not happy about the Engineers' play call, but he refused to comment beyond stating, \I don't think it was Joe K.ing 's call.\ continued on page 17 Men's Soccer Wins Squeaker In Double Overtime Sophomore Bryn Heath Scored Goal To Put Away Clarkson by David Weiner Staff Writer Prior to this season, Coach Jeff Guinn had high expectations for his young soccer team. He be- lieved that they possessed the skill, the desire, and the ability to have an extremely successful season and, quite possibly, to reach either the ECAC or the NCAA Tourna- ments. However, in voicing these aspirations, he knew in his mind that his players were young and somewhat inexperienced at this level of competition, and that in or- der to reach his goals, the team would need flawless efforts in all of their contests. Having such a youthful squad, Guinn's realistic goals were to have his players learn each others' styles of play, grow together, and teach them the philosophy he wants practiced as they play to- gether for the next two or three years. Thus, he understood that the team would lose its share of games, yet he also expected them to win a fair amount a, in the future, s we 11. His genuine hope was for a .500 season or better, and his team is exactly where he wanted them to be. Although they struggled through a week in which they faced theirtougllest competition of the season a11d in which the out- comes seemingly decided their R!T 1 - Union 0 From the first whistle to the fi- Union. Through most of this contest, it was clear that either team, by way playoff fate, the Dutch- men put f o r t h c o m - mend- able ef- forts in losses to RIT and s t Lawrence, 6-1 and 1-0 re- s p e c - tively, a n d showed glimpses of bri 1- liancy in their 1-0 victory o v e r Clarkson. J1L11ior Ibrahim Adamu had an assist in Saturday's winning goal (Laurie Kirsclrner/TC) of merely one goal, c o u I d t a k e home the victory. 0 n c e again, however, luck was not on the Union side, as RIT net- ted the lone goal of the contest early in the sec- ond half. Despite this set- b a c ·k, Union In the end of :the game, the wins and losses are tfle only things that people see, but the heart with which this team played is truly what gives them hope for the rest of this season and the seasons to come. nal buzzer, this game was close, as both teams continually created scoring opportunities for them- selves and carried the flow of play up and down the field. The only unfortunate part is that one team had to win, and that team was not contin- ued to fight, and with five minutes remaining had the opportunity they were looking for as the ball rolled towards and almost across the goal line before the RIT goal- keeper snatched it up and took the wind out of the Dutchmen sails. That goal would have sent the game into overtime, but instead, RIT walked away witll a solid, hard-fought victory. While the majority ofthis game was played evenly, Uni()n seem- ingly dominated the pace of play for the final twenty mi11utes. The team earned more comer kicks, tested the RIT goalke~per often, and gave themselves every chance to .net the needed g<>al, but just could not find the back. of the net. The loss was extremely unlucky, but their strong play set them for- ward on the right foot for what posed to be their hardest game of the season versus St. Lawrence. St. Lawrence 6- Union I St. Lawrence is a team consid- ered by coach Guinn and numer- ous others to be the best in the re- gion. Their soccer program has not lost a game in over two sea- sons and continually d<>m inates their league. This was evident throughout the contest, as Union was clearly in over their heads. This game began ()n the wrong foot for Union and never im- proved. Similar to earlier games in the season, the Dutchmen came out a bit sluggish in the early go- continued on page 19 . ,j ~ al el n 0 s £I, s e s d r a v c s

• lS The Student Newspt:lpt!l' tJfUnion CQ/lege Since 1877 Volume CXXV.JI. Number VI I · . . · . Schencctud;.-·. New York . -. . . . .· · - ·o~tobor 30:-1 IZ)c17' . . ' ' . . ~ . . ' ' $150M-We'll Drink To That (With ID)! $15 0 Million Gives Union Somethi-ng .. · to Celebrate· by Aileen Quigley Etlitor-.i'n-Ciriej . An estimated :1 ,_l 00 students, faculty, and alumni attended the 1997 Fall Ga1a in cel- ebration of the completion ofthe Union Bi- centennial campaign. The goal gf the cam- paign was posed as a challenge to the aluQini to pledge $15,0 million to the school. This money was to l>e used mainly, according to Dean of Students Fred Alford, for funding the major consiructien projects, including the Olin Buildincg, the Nott Memorial, Sah~ffer Library, and tbe Yulman Theater. With tw(} projects comple-ted and two to go, a cei,e_t :>ra~~~­ tion seemed itl order to commemorate_ r~~chi~g the go~r and to thank the alumni for the.ir \genero-ulfcontribu Students and faculty alike became.·i~volyeQ. in -- . · ning this camptis-wide event. Dean Aiford~d~ew.,.,.,,_.\\\\' original invitations and distributed them to the campus community. Vice President of Campus Life Strickland a11d Social Committee members Nicole Moieux and Leslie Rhein met with Lee Rose, Campus Security, and Dining Services to plan details of the evening. They were \very excited\ t-o help· plan such- a wide-scale evettt, and felt that social alternatives like the . Gala \pull th:e campus together.\ Beginning at 3:00 Fri- day afternoon, they hung white and black sheets to cre- ate a festive setting. In addition, the group strung white , lights throughout the building with the help ofthe. Stu- dent Activities programming assistants. They then hung the 500 black,. white, and silver balloons they had pur- chased with tile $350 decorating budget. The ice sculptures, table decorations, and floral arrange- ments also CQnttibuted to the interior atrnospher~ ofcel- ebration. For tile Gala of February of 1995, decorating and catering entajled the \transformation of a giant, open space into a party atmosphere,\ according to Scott Stowell of dining Services. The budget was originally estimated at $30,000, tile same as the I 995 Gala. However, this celebration was of \a different scope and scale,\ enabling · the food costs to remain \well-within budget,\ Stowell stated. The Manhattan Project provided the music for the evening, playing favorite samples ranging from disco to swing to contemporary hits. Students present and past danced next to administrators, professors, and staff in a relaxed settmg, creating a forum for casual interaction and easy conversation.· Outside, a tent equipped with a full bar and a heater was provided for faculty and students over 21. The staff , : of Chet's checked for IDs and issued blue bracelets to signify eligibility for access to the tent. Alcohol was not permitted outside the tent; specifically not inside the Cam- pus Center. The total cost for the tent, music, and decorations was . approximately $3000, according to Dean Alford. He stated that even on top of tile Dining Services bill and corry.pensatio11 for those who staffed the event, this is a small price to pay to thank our generous_ alumni and trust- · ees whose financial contributions make renovations and other campus improvements possible. Union students Michell¢ rka~t~.Caroline Hepner, and Katie Patrizio enjoy the Gala: (Dave Meguerdichian I TC) Campus News .................................... 2 Tfli.s Week in History ........................... 7 News~ ................................................ 3 Op-ed ................................................. 8 Student Forum Minutes .................... 4 .Scie~;:e and Tech ............................. 1 1 Administration Sends Out Letters Regarding Alcohol by Christopher Leone Managing Editor Amidstthe dying noise ofthe Ellis Hospi- tal emergency room, the Union College ad- ministration took a major step in remedying a campus alcohol problem. On Tuesday, students were scheduled to receive a letter from Dean of Residence Life Trish Williams regarding new expectations from students regarding drinking. The letter addressed a problem that has received me- dia attention from not only The Concordiensis but also The Gazette and WRGBTV-6. \This letter is in response to changing the perception that we {the administration) were not concerned,\ said Dean Williams on the eve of the Jetter's circulation. \rt also was a response to a concern by the faculty. Every- real· hyper about this thing, especially with the :' ., \ . . -- ,;:.~,/ -· · ·''The key phrasing in the letter states that \Resident As- sistants have been instructed that when they are aware of alcohol in the possession of students under the age of 21, they are to dispose of the alcohol without recompense.\ While the new rule does not effectively change policy for students over 21, it does send a message that public drink- ing by minors will be dealt with. \We are not asking the R.A.'s to chase the stude.nts,\ added Dean Williams about the letter. \We want them to ID the person and to write the student's date of birth on an incident report. We want to maintain th.e safety and credibility of the R.A.' s.'' The,new letters come weeks after Dean Alford sent out a letter to the students informing them of the pmblem. The original letter was in response to six students who had been taken, via security, to Ellis Hospital for alcohol- related reasons. The letter sent a firm message to the stu- . dents that this trend had to end. While no students have since made late night visits to the hospital, the new letter continues an administration attempt to resolve the problem before a crisis ensues. While there may be changes, the plan still encourages stu- . dents who are under 21 and sick to tum themselves in and receive proper treatment. \You do not want a draconian poJ.icy ,\ said Hull. \That would result is students feeling they cannot take a friend in trouble to the hospital. We want students to continue to seek help if needed.\ The question ofwhether Union was still an establish- ment based on learning became a prime concern of the administration and faculty recently. With one honor stu- dent, who did not drink, withdrawing because he felt like a social outcast and others complaining about noise, the administration and faculty discussed the problem, and the solution was revealed in the letter. \[The new letter] is part and parcel ofthe process,\ said Alford, on why changes were made despite no further security incidents. \Our key intention is that Union is a place to prepare intellectually for classes. This is letting people know how we are going to monitor the situation, continued on Features .................................................. 12 Arts & Entertainment.. ........................... /4 Sports ................. \ .................................. 20

News: Katha Pollitt Speaks Page3 S~orts: Football Back in Poll Page 20 ... tS $150M-We'll Drink To That (With ID)! $150 Million Gives Union Something to Celebrate· by Aileen Quigley Editor--in-Chief A.n estimated 1,100 students, faculty, and alumni attended the 1997 Fall Gala in cel- t:bration of the completion of the Union Bi- cerntcnnial campaign. The goal of the cam- paign was posed as a challenge to the alumni to pledge $150 million to the school. This money was to be used mainly, according to Dea~.n of Students Fred Alford, for funding the ll11ajor construction projects, including the 0 lin Building, the Nott Memorial, Schaffer Libirary, and the Yulman Theater. With two projects completed and two to go, a celebra-. tiom seemed in order to commemorate reaching the goal and to thank the alumni for their \generous contributions.\ Students and faculty alike became involved in plan- ning this campus-wide event. Dean A I ford clrew up the origina.J invitations and distributed them !o the campus connmunity. Vice President of Campus Life David Strickland and Social Committee members Nicole Mo leux and Leslie Rhein met with Lee Rose, Campus Sec:urity, and Dining Services to plan details of the evening. They were \very excited\ to help plan such\ a w icie-scale event, and felt that social alternatives like the Gala \pull the campus together.\ Beginning at 3:00 Fri- day afternoon, they hung white and black sheets to cre- ate a festive setting. In addition, the group strung white lights through()ut the building with the help of the Stu- dellt Activities programming assistants. They then hung tlu 500 black, white, and silver balloons they had pur- cha.sed with the $350 decorating budget. rhe ice sculptures, table decorations, and floral arrange- mel1ts also contributed to the interior atmosphere of cel- ebr~tion. For the Gala of February of 1995, decorating ancl catering entailed the \transformation of a giant, open spa><:e into a party atmosphere,\ according to Scott Stowell of dining Services. The budget was originally estimated at $3 0,000, the same as the 1995 Gala. However, this celebration was of \a different scope and scale,\ enabling the food costs to remain \well-within bt:1dget,\ Stowell stated. rh e Manhattan Project provided the music for the e'Vening, playing favorite samples ranging from disco to swing to contemporary hits. Students present and past damed next to administrators, professors, and staff in a relaxed setting, creating a forum for casual interaction a11d easy conversation. DLitside, a tent equipped with a full bar and a heater was provided for faculty and students over 21. The staff of <:het's checked for IDs and issued blue bracelets to sig!Ilify eligibility for access to the tent. Alcohol was not permitted outside the tent, specifically not inside the Cam- pus Center. Tile total cost for the tent, music, and decorations was aJlprcximately $3000, according to Dean Alford. He stated that even on top of the Dining Services bill and C(lmpensation for those who staffed the event, this is a srn.all price to pay to thank our generous alumni and trust- ee~ whose financial contributions make renovations and otl-.er campus improvements possible. Union students Michelle Tham, Caroline Hepner, and Katie Patrizio enjoy the Gala. (Dave Meguerdichian I TC) Campus News ................................... 2 This Week in History ..... ................... 7 News ................................................. 3 Op-ed ................................................. 8 Student Forum Minutes ................... 4 Science and Tech ............................. 11 Administration Sends Out Letters Regarding Alcohol by Christopher Leone Managing Editor Amidst the dying noise ofthe Ellis Hospi- tal emergency room, the Union College ad- ministration took a major step in n:mcd) ing a campus alcohol problem On Tuesday, students wt:rc scheduled to receive a letter from Dean of Rcsidt:ncc Lift: Trish Williams regarding new expectations from students regarding drinking. The letter addressed a problem that has rt·ccivcd me- dia attention from not only Tlie Concordiensis but also The Clu::cttc and WRGB TV-6. \This letter is in response to changing the perception that we (the administration) were not concerned,\ said Dean Williams on the eve of the letter's circulation. '\It also was a response to a concern by the faculty. Every- body got real hyper about this thing, especially with the deaths atound the country.\ · The key phrasing in the letter states that \Resident As- sistants have been instructed that when they are aware of alcohol in the possession of students under the age of 2 l, they are to dispose of the alcohol without recompense.\ While the new rule does not effectively change policy for students over 21, it does send a message that public drink- ing by minors will be dealt with. \We are not asking the R.A.'s to chase the students,'' added Dean Williams about the letter. \We want them to ID the person and to write the student's date of birth on an incident report. We want to maintain the safety and credibility ofthe R.A.'s.\ The new letters come weeks after Dean Alford sent out a letter to the students in forming them of the problem. The original letter was in response to six students who had been taken, via security, to Ellis Hospital for alcohol- related reasons. The letter sent a firm message to the stu- dents that this trend had to end. While no students have since made late night visits to the hospital, the new letter continues an administration attempt to resolve the problem before a crisis ensues. While there may be changes, the plan still encourages stu- dents who are under 21 and sick to tum themselves in and receive proper treatment. \You do not want a draconian policy,\ said Hull. \'That would result is students feeling they cannot take a friend in trouble to the hospital. We want students to continue to seek help if needed.\ The question of whether Union was still an establish- ment based on learning became a prime concern of the administration and faculty recently. With one honor stu- dent, who did not drink, withdrawing because he felt like a social outcast and others complaining about noise, the administration and faculty discussed the problem, and the solution was revealed in the letter. \[The new letter] is part and parcel of the process,\ said Alford, on why changes were made despite no further security incidents. \Our key intention is that Union is a place to prepare intellectually for classes. This is letting people know how we are going to monitor the situation, continued on page 5 Features........................ . . .... . . .. . . .. 12 Arts & Entertainment. ... . ... . . . 14 .)ports........................ . .. . . . 2()

J'~gc 2 • Ot:tobt.•r 30, 1997 • ([l?t' l£.:.mcornil'llsis . · Camptls News . . . Campus Security Info UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY lNClDENTSUMMARY MONDAY, OCTOBER 20,. l9n THROUGIISUNDA Y, OCTOBER 26, 1997 DATEITIME LOCATION INCIDENT MONDAY, OCTOB.ER 20, 1997: 3:10AM Jackson Gardens 5:09PM Residence Hall Y ANDAUSM: Stone benches pushed. over, tree limbs broken. PERSONAL ILLNESS: Student experienced reaction to prescFibed medication. 8:41PM Memorial Field House INJURY! Stud$:nt injured during sports practice. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1997: 10:16AM 2:46PM 9:47PM 10:45 PM Residence Hall Undetermined Campus North Entry Road WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1997: 8:40AM 7:30PM 8:29PM 9:29PM Off Campus Fraternity Campus Roadway Fraternity THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 19_97: No reportable incidents. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1997: \2:1\ AM Residence Hall 4:25AM Lawn Area 11:08 AM Parking Area 2:10PM Academic Building 4:04PM Residence Hall 4:12PM Residence Hall 7:50PM Campus Grounds 7:58PM Residence Hall 4:07PM Parking Area 9:10PM Parking Area 11:40 PM Parking Area SATURDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1997: 12:31 AM Residence Hall 1:35AM Residence Hall 1:49AM Parking Area 5:04PM Achilles Rink 5:40PM Lawn I Walkway 8:49PM North Terrace Latte 11:30 PM Pedestrian Gate SUNDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1997: !2:29AM Residence Hall 1:16AM Residence Hall 1:31AM Campus 1:49AM Campus 7:45PM Parking Area SECURITY HAZARD:.Window screen discov.:red ·a,jar. THEFl,': ~tudent reports keys being stolen from backpa~k:' . . TH.E::Ft:'Buildjng identi.t)cation sign stolen .. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Stopped and identified. RECOVEREtl PROPERTY: Property belonging to Union College recovered from off campus location. SAFETY HAZARD: Loft policy violation. MOTOR VElUCLE ACCIDENT: Vehicle struck trafnc control device. SAFETY HAZARD; Possible t1ammablc wall covering. LIFE SAFETY ViOLATION: Tamp~ring.with smoke detector. ' '· -: ' ·' ·RECKLESS. DRIVING: Student observed driving vehicle on grass. . VEHICLE DAMAG~: .staff mhnber reports damage to. vehicle. SUDDEN ILlNESS: Student reports feeling ilL TRESS PASS: Unauthorized distribution of menus. NOXIOUS ODOR: Investigated. ANIMAL COMPLAINT: Dog observed running loose, owner notified. SAFETY IIA.ZARD: Possible tampering-with Hfi! safety equipment. VEHICLE LOCKOUT~ Access gained. SUSPICIOUS-PERSONS: Yo-uths identified I warned ofT campus. VEHICLE LOCKOUT: Access gained. EMERGENCY 9ll CALL: Unfounded. SUBSTAN~E ABUSE.(alcohol): Non~student (guest). Transported to Ellis Hospital Emergency Room. EMERGENCY-PHONE: Unf<Junded /'Malicious activation. TRESPASS:. Youths fn. building. Identified I Warned off , . ,. . ' ' ·- ,.. .• campus. RECKLESS ()RIVING: .Student drivi'ng vehicle on grass and walkways to deliver beer kegs. EMERGENCY PHONE: Unfo1.1nded/ Maliciaus activation.' THEFT: Padlock missing. EMERGENCY 911 HANG UP' CALL(2): · Equipment malfunction. SUBSTANCE ABUSE (alcohol): Student transported To Ellis Hospital Emergency Roam. Conduct Charges filed. EMERGENCY PHONE ACTIVATED: Malicious. activation .. EMER-GENCY PHONE AC1JV ATED: Malicious activation. VEHICLE WCKOUT: Access gained. ·- . . . - . . . S·pring Break •ss· Sell Trips, Earn Cash, & Go Free!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus ~eps/group organizers. · Lowest Rates to Jamaica, Mexico, & Florida. 1 Caii1-800-64S-494~ .. ·Alcohol Awareness Speakers at Memorial. Chapel by Amy DiBattista executive EditQr year students, two aspects of life into which alcohol fits easily. Af- ter a period of d~structive and self- d<:;structive behavior, he eventually As part. of 1\lco,hol Awarenes~ · rf,!a:lized and adrnitted to his prop- Week on tbeUn.ion Cq'ltege cam- . lem. Ratigan then found himself . pus, the hitetftu(eJllity Co.tmciland faced with an entire reputation as· the Pan.h:eUeO,:ic Co,uifui.r brought a a \party guy\ and a need to account pa,nel. of.r~co:Veril)gilc€1holics to for an(!<reconcile his f()rmer behav- Memorial Chapel to tell of the.ir ior in order to Pl1t his life back to- battle-s witll alcolioll:sm and the . gether. road' to tepover~,·:Th~pi.tnel con- Beth McGaughan '96, another s.isted of four sp¢.akeq- .. three Uniongruduate,.followed.She he- Uni:Ori~lum.niandonec\:lrn:intstu- gail by stating that even before . ··.dent~whowi~he4tohelp eoticate college she was a \pathetic . · the stud~ntbody. . · drinker,\ a habit that extended to The pal\el/whJch spekbat 7:30 her col!~ge years. McGaughan ad- PM on 0Qt{)ber :23, \.vas well-at- dressed the prevalent .drinking tended by stu.dents and f;culty. scene at Union and how difficult . -· ·After ·an introduction by Christo.: it is for a nondrinker to ftt in and · ph.er Rrantigan;.Jnterfraternity have fun here. She also made sure , .. C~uncU .pre§ident, and Kirstin to point ouuhat drinking does not Kahn, P.anhellenic Comicil presi- have to be a Union student's iden- dent, the speakers each took their tity: «it's possible to have a really turn addressing their listeners. coo.! experience and not drink ... The fkst' .speaker was Matt to the pointofalcoholpoisoning.\ Gu~ilfoy:le· '.80 from Houston, She was able to find friends who Texas. At l9 years old, he has acceptedherl;Llcoholaddiction and <been sober fors~x years. f'uilfoyle respected her need tp stay dry. · stated that his Yt:ars in college were McGaughan cond1:1dedwith ad- the formative' years for his alco- vice to those who believe that they · · · ·. hol.i~m:: . He de~cribed a typical or one .of their friends may need ' party. ~~enethat any studei1t could help: \No one is going to say, 'You . .beil)y~.lv~d. in and went on to ex:- ·have a drinking pro:blem.' They .plain t:hat his love for alcohol will throw you out of school ..... ·· · stemme~ from the way it made You have to look at yourself and . himfed~p~werful and in control. ask yourself, 'Can I stop?'\ He admitted that if he could go McGaugh an is sober now at 31. . - I . back, he would not have not be- The final speaker was Nate gun to drink at alL His drinking, Phelps, a cmrent Union student on altho.ugh it served as an ''immedi- leave because of an alcohol prob- ate answer to loneliness, shyness, lem. He began to drink as a teen- and~ lack of;love,\ led to friend- agerand continued to drink exten- ships and relationships that he later s ive ly unti I he realized that he realized were not true. might have a problem; he made Guilfoyle became a funct.ioning llimself a sigrt a note saying th.at alcoholic-. functioning,butnever- he would neverdrinkagai,n. Later; theless dominated by alcohol. AI- when he came to college at Union, though he was successful aside he began to drink again when faced from his alcoholism, his ''soul was with the overwhelming pressures completely bankrupt,'' and he even of classes. He pledged a fraternity . reached a point at whi.ch suicide that did not pressure him to drink; seemed the only solution. He de- in fact, he pressured tile brothers scribed his regret for things that he to .drink sometimes. c-: 'd·id while he was drinking and the At the beginning of each term; ., . . hope that he later found in Alcow Phelps woul'd attempt to prepare holies Anonymous meetings. {or classes and to d<J well, but he OuilfoY,le concluded by saying that would give up aftet a while and he c;ame to Union that night both start making excuses f<Jr missing · to help the students and as a way class.es and for copying papers. He to forgive himself for \robbing got caught up in the e11tertainment · [his] soul of what it needed.\ ofteUing stories about~his and his Next came Dylan Ratigan '94, friends' drunken bellavior, but who revealed that his experiences eventually he realized his life was with alcohol began ba¢k in the 8'\ going down hill, which is when he grade with liquor from his friends' decided to seek help~ Said Phelps, parents; liquor cabinet. Although ••there are people you C!ln call .... he could have heeded the warning lfyou stop and thinl< ·r had a good signal of alcoholic relatives, he fig~ day today, I did my laundry. I did ured that he could always stop my homework ... 11ormal people \later.;' His talk took a comical don't think that way. You may be turn as he joked about .the party an alcoholic.\ .. scene at Union and the amount of A reception at the Sigma Phi fra- freedom that can overwhelm first- ternity followed the panel. Concordy Meeting at 6:00 .. ., '1 ' l'l \\ t: ll I L li l ~ l ; - K . .~ Katha author,.p Nation, '\Why I Monday, audienc1 This tall Minerv~ series oJ variety Am eric! column pears ev tion and Wash in! to go fo left.\ Since book R~ says on 1994,PI many a most co concert them UF York T tionaHy \razor-: winner . and he: appean At/ant Harpe Times, Thro attemp phrase' come-s term i which 1 ing wil theec() they ar with~ can\ c: Mor dition forme1 marri wome cilitat1 noted elude: \bien< paren1 paren1 Sh the h showi has e value 1h Setv part; Mue1 urda: Rath n will musi (inc! a tac of a.! dail~ In has inn wan tuni

' ,·f . ' Campus Nc·ws · . U:lrc U:uqtln·uit'Hsis • October30~ 1997 • Pagl' J Katha Pollitt Speaks at Union by Lee Polikoff SUif/ Writer Katha P()llitt, a noted feminist author,.poet, and columnist for The Nation, gave a speech entitled \Why I J·la.te Family Values\ on Monday, October 27 before. a large audience in the Nott Memorial. · This talk was sponsored by the M inerv? c;;ommittee, as one of a series of ~peeches dea!'ing with a variety of issues prevalent in American society. Ms. Pollitt's column ·~subject to· Debate\· ap· pears everyotherweekin The Na- tion and has been named by the Washington Post as \the best place· to go for original thinking on the~ left.\ Since the publication of her book Reasonable Creatures: Es- says on Women and Feminism in. 1994, Pollitt has been regarded by many as one who \takes on the most compelling issues ofour day concernin,g the sexes and turns them upsicle down,\ says The New York. Times Book Review. Addi- tionally, sbe is known to have a \razor-sharp wit.;' Poll·itt is the winner-()f several writing awards, . and her essays and poems have appeared in The New Yerker, The Atl~ntic:; The New Republic, Harper ':'r, and The New York Times, among others. · Througlmuther dialogue, Pollitt attempted to show that the \catch phrase\ (}f family values has be- come sucl:J a salient and prevalent term in society ~s a means. by which pOliticians could avoid deal- ing with pertinent issues, such as theeC<lllomy orhealthcare. Rather, they are able to speak about issues with which the \average Ameri- can\ can associate. Moreover, she Cites that the tra- ditional family has been trans- formed; today, the instituti<;m of ma·rriag(:, religion, and the women 's.rights movement has fa- cilitated this process. Thus, Pollitt noted tllat today's family can in- clude single mothers with children, \blended families\-· families with parents of mixed races, divorced parents, and gay parents. She cited this expanded use of the term \family\ as means of showing how society as a whole has embraced these \nouveau\ values amdthe ability of society to Kathq PQU(.tt; a noted feminist and lefiist, spoke at the Nott on Monday night. (Courtesy of Public -Relations) change .. Interestingly, Pollitt cited the feminism ltl()Vement as vehicle that made women see that gender roles are reversible. Thus, accord- ing t<..' her; gender equality has put strains on families~ which subse- quently leads to a decay of morals in the family. \Women now want men to be women.\ She stated that the tradi- tional roles of men and women in the family 110 longer exist, and that men and women are very much similar. Therefore, .there is less parental guidance for children, and they rely upon exterior sources, ·such as television,asthe mode for cultivating morality. Ms. Po:llitt also noted that fam- i1y values are criticized not for their morality,. but for the lack of resources in the their implementa- tion. for example, the lack of wel- fare reform, no flexible hours, and a lack of day-care do not allow working parents to spend substan- tial p(:)rtions of the day with their children. Thus, children watch and absorb \all of the dreck on televi- sion,\ and since parents rely upon ·TV as a \b~tby sitter,\ chi fdren are exposed to excessive amounts of violence and often inappropriate themes. Additionally, Pollitt noted that the lack of accessible options for birth control has led to many births out of wedlock-something that is often deemed highly objectionable by many in society. Moreover, she noted that, \society is too closed; women do not have access, and these issues pertaining to birth con- trol are against traditional values.\ Ms. Pollitt's ability to incorpo- rate wry wit with her own unique perceptions pertaining to family values made fot a special experi- ence. Her perspective from the political left allowed for distinct and different speech. KS and GPhiB: Halloween Blood-Sucking For a Good Cause by Liam Jqynt Contributing Writer Tomorrow, on the festive day of All Hallows Eve, before you go · (}ut to do a little trick-or-treating, .stop by Davidson and get your blood sucked. lhe American Red Cross,. in association with the Kappa Sigma Fraternity and the Gamma Phi Beta Sorority, ishold- ingablooddrive. The h<IPPY time ofsmiling nurses garbed in white and tables full of cookiesandjuice . is again upon us. Although past blood drives tradi-tionally took place in Old Chapel, blood drive sponsors are pleased to announce their exciting n.ew location in the Davidson North study lounge (at the back .Jf building). The drive will beheld from 8:30AM to I :30 PM. Voluntary blood donations have become an integral part of mod~ ern medicine. Every tetlseconds someone needs a blood transfu- sion. Millions of people rely on tile gen~rosity of blood donors to enable lifesaving proced11res. Blood transfusions meet a wide array of medical. needs. They can be used to help treat cancer,. heart disease,. gastrointestinal disease, lung, liver, and kidney diseases, aswell as emer,gency surgi<;al pro- cedures. Gamma Phi Beta representative Emily Simon seemed very excited about her sorority's involvement w.ith the blood drive. According . to her, \We're expecting a great turnout. Union students are very · c<>mmunity-service minded~ espe- cially for events such as,this.\ Kappa Sigma has worked with the Red Cross on prior blood drives. Dave Meron (Kappa Sigma com.- munity service chairman) says. \We feel it is our duty to help out in any way we can for such a wor- thy cause.\ Between the two or- ganizations, they can get the blood flowing. If you are interested in giving blood, please call Dave Meron at 374-0833 to make an appointment. Appointments are necessary in or- der to fill all .available time slots for the five hours that the Ameri-. can Red Cross is here. The entire process takes less than an hour, which includes fill- ing out a questionnaire to ensure the donor's blood is safe for trans- fusion. The actual donation only takes about six minutes. Since people with appointments occa- sionally do notshow up, and some time slots may still be open, fee 1 free to visit the Davidson North lounge tomorrow, even without an appointment. The only requirements are that you weigh at least 110 pounds, that you are between the ages of 17 and 76; and that it has been 56 days since your last blood donation. In addition, there are a few health provisions. For example, if you have re- ceived money or drugs for sex any time since 1977, it is not safe f()r you to donate blood, due to AIDS concernsthat first appeared in that year. There is a pamphlet provided before donation th~t explains all the c<>nditions that make it unsafe to give blood. So, ifyou haven't signed up al- ready, look into doing so, or just go to the Davidson North back lounge tomorrow between 8:30 and I :30. Thousands of ill people are counting on your support. An Old-Style Mexican Fiesta at The Rathskellar by Graham Bryce Omtributing Writer The Spanish Club and Dining Services invite you to attend a party celebrating Dia de los Muert<>s(Day ofthe Dead) on Sat- urday~ November lst, 1997 in the Rathskellar. The party will start at 9 PM and will feature a variety of Spanish music, contests, specialty drinks (including nonalcoholic choices), a taco salad buffet, and a couple ofalternatives in addition to their daily menu. In recent years, the Spanish Club has experienced constant growth in membership, and so, the club wanted to offer some new oppor- tuniti~s forthe college community to _learn about different aspects of the Hispanic culture. As president of the Spanish Club, I hope that the upcoming party will allow students the chance to have some great food, listen to some interesting music, and develop an appreciation for another culture. Junior., Caryn Anapolsky be- lieves that the party is a great chal(lce t() enjoy a Mexican tradi- tion aswe II as maintain the festive spirit created by our culture for Halloween. As in the past, the Spanish Club will present an offering in the Campus Center on October 31 st from 10·3 demonstrating some of the traclitiorls associated with this holiday. This Mexican celebration (Oc- tober 31 -November 2) illustrates the mixture. of cultures in Mexico as it combines the attitudes of the European medieval church with the beliefs of the Aztecs. Contrary to what the name may indicate, the holiday is a celebra- tion of life and not death. It is cus- tomary to create miniature alters dedicated to an individual; in this offering, death is depicted in nu- merous activities associated with daily life. In addition, families visit cem- eteries to decorate the graves of deceased family members, friends, and public figures with flowers, candies, and even toys for de- ceased children; however, as al- ways, Dia de Los Mue1tos is an event which society enjoys not dreads. The Spanish Club invites you to stop by the Campus Center this Friday to participate and observe tnis Mexican tradition and see who we will be honoring this year. As many frequent visitors to the RathskeHar have noticed, the Skellar has undergone a series of changes that include the addition of a foosball table, two new TVs, and of course, the New Monday Night Football parties. Many of these changes reflect the ideas of the new manager, Jim Dunn, Jim is a recent graduate of . college and he would like to bring some o{the events tltat made his student experience so rewarding into the Skellar. In a recent conversation, Jim explained, \I like meeting new people and I am very open to new suggestions. 1 believe that student and faculty involvement is key to the improvements I want to make here.\ Some possible future events in- clude wine tasting in the spring, barbecues, and of course, more club events. If any club is interested in ar- ranging an event in the Skellar, c<>ntact Jim at 388-6124 or stop by the Skellar. Jim believes that one ofhis main g()als is to develop programs that students enjoy because students perfonn better when they are very happy. I again invite all of you to <:ome and join the Spanish Club in the celebration of Dia de los Muertos this Saturday at 9 PM in the New Rathskellar.

The Concert Everyone Missed by Nick Papanickolas Staff Writer On Saturday, October 25, 1997 in Memoria! Chapel at 8:00 PM, the Octavo Singers, directed by George G. Moross; put on a bril:- liant presentation for the surround- ing Schenectady and Union com- munities. \Excellent! The chorus is magnificent,\ were the words spoken by Alma Schultz, a spec- tator. who commr.nted on the con- cert. The singers' performance of \Mass in G\ by Franz Schubert and \Mass in b No.3\ (\The Im- perial\ or \Lord Nelson\) by Jo- seph Hayden filled Memorial Chapel and the evening with feel- ing and emotion. Unfortunately, few came to witness this marvel- ous act, and the majority of those who arrived were not part of the Union community l>ut part of the surrounding Schenectady area. For those who missed it, this is the Octavo Singers' ~4th year per- forming. The group consists of many older members, who often sing mass or requiem stylistic songs. Many of the members of- ten sing during the weekends at their churches or parishes. These singers are very dedicated to the group, practicing every Monday evening from 7:30 1o 9:30 at the Cranmer House of St. George's Episcopal Church in the Schenectady Stockade. They per- form three concerts per year, Usu- ally held in Memorial Chapel of Union College. However, they have also played at Schenectady High School on numerous occa- sions. Tony Lambiase, a tenor in the Octavo Singers for six years now, said ofthe group that they would \love to have young singers\ and are always looking for new and interested prospects for the group. If anyone is interested in singing for the Octavo Singers, ca11 344- SING and ask for Mr. George G. Moross. I highly recommend to the Union community that they attend the co11cert December 14th at 3 PM in Memorial Chapel, where the group will be singingHandel's \Messiah.\ Winter break may again be the reaso11 for a smaU showing, but in the spring the group will btl performing once again; so,. those interested should keep an eye out for the date and time oftllis performance. \', I -• Wrap It Up: DumPlings at ; .- . . -• ' Thurst,on Hoos-e -· . - .. by Li'\Hsin Wang Contributing Jfriter soy sauce, and sesame oil ,into: .a · flat, rouhdpiece ofdougl;t that was tllert folded .in ·a speci~L manner to form a dumpling. As the students·· \How do you stuff this? Where moved into ThtttstoilLowige; Pto- do 1 put the water?. How did y!)u fessor Feng and the visiting pro- . get the wrinkles?\ These were fessors bt;gan: to :pre.pate th~·~tl:;ii. ~common questions<tiea:rd la'st dents? ·handiwotk · . Wednesday night in Dayidson din- Meanwhile, in the .loung~. the in g. 'Thurston Housebosted 'Chl- ·students beg~ to f1.uifler·immers~ Iiese CqltureNight on Wednesday,. tbe~selves into Chine~e Cl!l~ure, Octol;er:22, 1991. . ' To.the tunes ofdassioa:t Chines~ It was one event ;in. a series music, the students were introw known as \Wednesday Nights at duced to Chinese calligraphy. Thurston House/' which is. aimed Using bamboo brash pens dipped to promote Asian awareness on the in ink, Professor Feng presented Union College campus. Along the various strokes necessary to with the visiting 'Professors from form Chinese characters. These Nanjing University, Professor form the basis ofthe writt:en Chi• . FengoftheForeignLanguageDe- nese lan~uage and llavebeen a partment taught 40 hungry stu- source of much pi-ide to artisans dents and professors the· art of throughout the centuries of Chi- making dumplings. nese heritage. One Thurston Many of the eager students were House member cornm.ented that surprised by their new-found tal- that while it was kind oftricky, it • ent. Professor Feng had prepared was intere.sting because she had .: the dumpling stuffing ahead of never before been eXpQsed to this · time. The students were taught to art. ' put the mixture of pork, scallions, This lesson was followed by a sampling· of several Chinese dishes, the rt;lsult ofthe bard work: ofProfessorfeng, who strived to m-.ke thi~ eve.-tirt~ educational, yet fulfilling and m~morttbl~. She pre- pared li~n-mian (cold sesame . naod;les), 2;ba-jiang mian (noodles w.ith tofu and brown sauce),lu-daii (st_e~ed eggs), and niu .... rou (Chi .. n~se meat loafwhich is eatenwitlt a special J>read). . . . The~e culin_ary d~lights w~re en- joyed along with the dumpling[J that Professor Feng's assistants Juid prepared. • Chinese Culture Night was.a big success and seemed to have given students and faculty alike an in- sight into the Chinese culture. It seems that. \Wednesday Nights at Thurston House\ achieved itsgl)al ·of exposing Union College to the Asian culture, since students ex· pandedtheithorizons while,enjoy- ing the food and music. This event couldnothavetaken place without the support andheip from 'Professor Feng and the East Asian Studies Department. Nature. Writer and ' Anthropologist Richard Nelson By Amy DiBattista Executive Editor Award-winning nature writer Richard Nelson visited Union Col .. lege on Wednesday, October 22, 1997 to give a discussion about his recently published book Heart and Blood: Living With Deer in · America. From 4 PM to 5 PM in the Reamer Campus Center Audi- . 1orium,Nelson spoke ofhis expe- riences and motivations in both his . life and his career that led him to be fascinated with deer and their relationship to the people of the United States. Nelson, who attended the Uni- versity of Wisconsin and received his Ph.D. in anthropology from the University of California at Santa Barbara, has lived with and re- searched the peoples of Alaska and has written five books, which have been made into a movie about his experiences. Since t 990, Nelson has concentrated on a different passion-professional nature writ- ing. He draws on his background in anthropology while writing about the natural world. Nelson resides in southeastern Alaska and has experienced the way in which native Americans cultivate a spiritual relationship with the natural world around also become i~ with the life of deer on the Alas- kan coast .. Realizing that the audi- ence may have been wondering why he decided to write exten- sively about deer, he explained that his life ''centered around them\ and that he has always been \obsessed with deer.\ During three years oftravel in Alaska, Nelson, who was opposed to ilunting for most of his life, combined his knowledge of and love for deer with his research about Native Americans and began to consider the moral and ethical relationship· that hunters share with the natural world. Nelson presented slides that showed the great range of areas inhabited by deer (from Alaska and Canada down through the lower 48 states and extending ten degrees below the equator into South America), the differences in antlers and tails that distinguish one type of deer from the other, and the ways that they protect themselves in their evolution as pt'ey. He explained that although subsistence hunting and market hunting at one time kept the deer population in check, it is rapidly increasing. Suburbs and logging operations are displacing deer; many are starving to death, but since the deer population can double every two years, many believe still too many. Deer pose a threat to crops, such as corn and hay - the crops that feed the animals that are our food. Nelson emphasized this \ecological connection\ between humans and deer. He described the connection as a relationship of re- spect, saying that the deer gives itself to the hunter, who in t1.1rn provides food for himself and oth- ers. When we consume the deer, we become \made from deer' and experience a\communion\ with it . Nelson stated that \hunting is as important as the plow\ in provid- ing food. In closing, Nelson askedthatthe audience understand that \one of the most dangerous ideas ... is tllat nature is just scenery .... Your body can be made from deer, and deer may eat the plants that grow from :you .... It is the only way we live- taking the lives of other organ- isms.\ Nelson stressed the general need to show more respect for the \soil from which we are made\ and for the moral responsibility we have for the earth. He addressed both hunters and non-huntersj advising that both should show mutual respect for each other as participants in the interchange of life. He ended his well-attended talk with questions from the audience of students and Phi Sig Gets Involved to Help Others Tony LaVecchia Staff W~:iter During the past several months, the brothers of Phi Sigma Kappa have been busy thinking of inno- vative ways to raise money for deserving charities. As part of an ongoing project, Phi Sigma Kappa raised over $850 for the Regional Food Bank dur- ing the first seven weeks of the fall term. This money was generously donated by members of the. Union student body, who were given the opportunity to use money from their declining balance to- do some- thing other than make Marriot richer. Most recently, Phi Sig host~d its annual paol tournament to benefit the Battered Women's Shelter. The tournament-, which donates half of its proceeds to the charity and half to the winner of the .pool games~i& a yearly event open to any member of the community. The brothers hope that they will be able to build on their success in the upcoming months and catTy that into the winer tenn. I e r a r r ( i t ( I c i I r t J t e a I ( t a s v r f tl c ~ c a h c a s v s r r d c s ( F s c g t

~am pus News · · · itl!t' ([tntroroil'usis • October 30, 1997 .- Paf!l' S ' ' ' Administration's Alcohol Policy Letter COntinued effectively putting the students on ·. · · · · ·· · · · · · ·· · . · · · · · · notice.\ The neVI rul.e~Camejusttwodrtys after Roche~ten Institute of Tech- nology (R.l.T.) banned' ali drink- ing frorn coFieg.e ... owne.d dorm·ito- ries. \Personally l think what R.LT. did was wrong,.\ said Hu11 1 quiet- ing some students~ fears that Union is ela the verge of be.com- ing a \dry\ \:arnjpus. \It forces stu- dents into being closet drinkers. Personally, [don't agree with the drinking age·eitlier. However, it is my obH·g-ation to enforce the law. 1 ' This new .letterwiH undoubtedly raise a whole realm of new q1,1es- tions to be answered, President Hull touched on. c.ne of those ques-. tions regarding if this plan wiJl be effective. \l don't ihi.Jlk any one has the answer to this. pr<Jblem,\ said the President. \Idonotthink there is one answer.- We are not going to be policernet) antl see what people ate doing. ·vre .a.re trying to· find . something in between.\ Dean Alfor<l ech{)ed the Presi~ d((nts sentime11ts, \l have fC:lith that this will work,\ said the Dean. \l have been really impresscdwith the response from the s1udents .. No one has said that they \figllt toprotect their right to party.\' UNION,·· COLLEGE ' THE OFFICE OF R·f.SjDf,NCE LIFE S<..HENECTADY, N&W YORK IH08-HI>O (~ 18) H8·6117 MEMOitANDUM To: From: Date: RE: New Procedure for Enr~ .. cing Alcelho-1 .PoUcy All of you received notice frorn Dean Alford concerning problems relating to alcohol and drug use on campus~ particul~.trly by minors. Union has decided to more strictly enforce its alcohol policy prohibiting or-en containers, bulk containers. and the abuse of alcohol by sty.dettts of any age withi:n the residence haHs. The Dean has indicat~d that he would require the Residence Life staff ttO be more vigiJant in monitoring the situation. Toward tllat end~ he has as.ked that Resid..el'!t Assistants take .. appropriate action\ when they are aware of minors possessing or ccnsttming a1cobol. In order to meet the new expectations, Resitle11t Assistant.,; have been instructe4 tltat wlleu tf1ey are a.w.ar~ ~f alco.hol bt the posse.uion of stude11ts u~Jder the age of 21 anywhere in :flte ,.eside11ce hall, tlzey ar.e to ask students tQ dispose of tile a'lcohol. Stltt/.ellt~ who faiJ I() comply with thes:e requests or who are repeat offenders will ft~.ce- Conduct Charges. 1t is unfortunate tl1at in a conunan ity of educated peopie. Resident Assistants have to take on this role. Nevettheless, we wit! d() what we must to ensure that students in the halls can study and sleep in a clean~ ~uiet environment. \Ve hope the tnea~ures listed above will be effective. However, if we see continued problems, we will have no c,hoice but to consider other options. · This procedure is effective TMMEDIATELY. Just in case you did nr;;t get )OUr mail, here is the new letter. Crosstalk Discusses the Alcohol Problem at Union by Mi4ih!lel Winn St1rj[Writer Alcohol aw an ness on campus and is quite rHJticeable due to its recent significant increase. Whether this flhe-nomenon has to do with the f.act tllat last week was alcohol aware!le~s week or due to the recent alcol:lDl related deaths on campuses ar<Jur:td the couniry, the concern seems to be widespread. Last Thursciay. a Crosstalk was held in Chefs c<Jnceming alcohol on Union's ·camp-us. \If beer dis- appeared, wottld U?\ was the topic handed to the five panelists and aU other attendees. The topic left for an open•t;!nde<l cenversation on the status of akohlod. here at Union. The conversational event began with David Jacks, a sophomore, stating simp! y, \Yes if disap- peared, I would leave.\ David, rep- resenting a good amount of stu- dents who enjoy drinking, made it clear that he I ik.ed beer. Another student, Josh Snyder, joined David in praisil1g the use of alcohol. On the otber ~ide was Jennifer Chick, ajuniora11d member ofthe Peer Facilita:tors, a group that co- sponsored tile event. Jennifer ex- claimed her C(}-ncem about the dan- gers of alcohd a.nd her opinion that there is little alternative to drink- ing on camp1rs. The ~hre~ students were joined on the stage by both Linda Cool, Dean of Academics, and Profes- sor • 7 elmon Davis of the Fhiloso- phy Department. Dean Coo), who has been vocal about her concerns selves to improve the student body,s. attitude towards tes;pot~si­ bility. Jnsteacf ofthe intense argu!1llen- tative Cros!>talks that wrreJJtly arise, this one was pro<lllctive and brought up the idea that fraterni- ties should hold more nonalcoholic events in order to down-pl-'!y the role of alcohol in the social life on campus. Josh, a brotller at one of the on- Crosstalk discusses \Jf Beer Disapper;tted, Would U?\ (Dave Megu~rdichian I TC) . . . about the status of alcohol on our quite sound. There was n<Jt m11ch campus, made it clear that there disagreement, and the setti11g wa5 campus fraternities, made it clear that \if fraternities didn't serve should be steps taken to cnangethe more like a round-tabhediscu~sioEl beer, 11obody would come\--a so- current standing of alcohol con- involving characters ofdiffer.ellt bering comment, but one that was sumption among students. backgrOllnds. agreeable to all members of the Professor Davis was the first to All showed some interest in panel bring forth the important topic of making the environmellt <lll cam- Tile important question eventu- responsibility. Professor Davis did pus one Gfmore responsible drink- ally brought to the table was \what not support the change of the al- ing. Jt became stipulated early iEl can we, as students, do to make coho! policy but instead encour- the discllssion that drinkin.g Wa5 sure tllat our peers do not endan- aged students to take it upon them- part of the social culttue. Je:nni fer gerthemselves?\ Professor Davis told the audience about his expe- rience with alcohol management at the Quaker college that he at- tended as a student. He explained how the students worked as a com- munity and kept each other con~ trolled. Dean Cool, who attended a Quaker college as well, com- mented on the fact that her student body took it upon .itself to set pre- cedents on alcohol management and took pride in their lack of al- cohol problems. There was no disagreement with the notion of a more responsible student body as an answer to any alcohol problems we may have at Union. In fact, most felt that steps should be taken by the stude'lt body, rather than by administrators ofthe school. to control excessive drinking. With a student body of only 2000, this seems to be within reach by most, but understanding of the dangers of inebriation must coin- cide with an effort. Most students seem to feel that they are in control, such as David Jacks, who answered the question of whether he drinks excessively with a yes and added that he knows he should sleep face down on his pillow to make sure he doesn't choke on his own vomit. A'f'TENTION ALL SENIORS! I· Campus Announcments ] SCiENCE EX/BIT An Elegllflf Evening complete with wine and cbeeset~ celebrate the Class of 1998! Tonight-/ :3()~; Nott MemoriaL fickets sold today! N.A T'UJeAL HiSTORY ILLUSTRATIONS Uni()Ji~s Examples from the Past and Present Noventber 3 through January 2 in Arts Atrium Opening Reception November 4, 4:30p to 6:30p Af'pha Phi Alpha cuui Af.,A S \Integration: A Strategvt~1e Wron~'' by Tony Brown Friday, N oven1ber 7 1 h, 8ptnl Re.amer Campus Center Aaditorilllrl Featuri11g life and works of Joseph Henry November 6th, Nott Memorial. BLOOD DRIVE Kappa Sigma is holding a blood drive and haunted hoase in Old Chapel.

Coming Soon ... 'lEA GARDEN 1549 Cariie St. (I Block From Union College) . . . Union College·· Mug.Ni.tes Tue, Wed, Tbu & Sat 9pm -12am 22 oz. Drafts $1.50 ·.·.(Bud, Bud Lite, Labatt's Btue & Honey Brown) for $2.00 fill tor $1.50 j?c ·.'~- ' · ·· ··~n . . ,. !. (' •\••/•f 11 1M •..... : ..... , ... ,,. . /1es .. \s ' . ' ·. ... You Won't Believe You're In Schenectady! LPs,,·N'IDEOS & CASS£'1$S · :1\ Bu {Sea Trade \\ ' ) ' ' !! Nar · to find tiUes ;l cDs ............ : ............ $7.99 ea. or 2/l15 TA~ES ......... : .......... $2,99 ea. or a4s Sel~ COs ........ ~.;·.;·f3 ea. or 21W: MUS.IC VIDEOS ...... 2 for $10 f~l ' / .. ~. We EVen,Have Current Vinyl ~$,1& LPs! Clifton \6Gi@trv. 146) · ... Clifton Park, Nf1288S*: (518 373·9089 • m - Union '-'Ollet~[e International 'Festival of Chamber Music XXVI prnttllll 1990 TCHAIKOVSKY GOLD MEDAL PIANJST BORIS BEREZOVSKY \Here surely, we have the truest successor to tile great Russian pianists,\ wrote Grammopbon~ in july 1993 about this brilliant young Russian who was the winner of rhe 1990 Interruu:ional T chaikovsky Competition. Of his American debut in. Dallas in 1991, the Dallas Morning News rep<>rted. \This was important playing. · What Berezovsky did and how he saw the music was totally unexpected. It is something new or even something being reh«lrn in piano playing. >i Scriabin-Si.t Preludes, Op. 13; Twelve Etudes) Op. 8; Rachmaninoff-Sonata No. 1, Op. 28 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3 at 8 p.m. Union College Memorial Chapel FOR UNION STUDENTS ADMISSION IS FREE For free tickets, see Sylvia Nozny in Scheduling, Reamer Center 404C Sin~ armiV4 I thou currin pears life. publlc Novel fuUy, the st camp1 it was Aro terthe stude1 comp today. fergn that oJ thepe in the cut-tl prank! genen ultyai charac preser only ( life in dormi plaint! the de just in in 188 Eve donm well a to the we do diffict ace on campl ] by M Yea teriou maxec persot threat1 unles~ plane· were 1 Air tors V:\ mail a innoc TimeE to put The erally thoug: cal al1 able s about upon ago b: mit He wildeJ The: raised angui broth~ tion tc reque: vacy Theoc cabin T E

anniversary of The Concordiensis, I thought I would talk about a re- curring theme that continually ap- pears .in this newspaper ... student life. The Concordiensis began publlcation .in late October, early . November of 1877 and respect- fu·lly covers stories dealing with the students and faculty here on . campus. This is no different than it was in 1877 or even 1883. Around 1883,. about six years af- .· terthe initiation of The Concordy, student life was really not that complex compared to student life . today. \Student I.ife ... didnot.dif- · fer greatly in many respects from that oftoday. Alumni accounts of· the period ( 1883 }describe politics in the election of class officers, cut-throat fraternity rushing,· pranks in and out ofthe classroom, general congeniality hetw.een fac- ulty and Students, and many other characteristics which are present in present campus life.\ Probably the only evident contrast in campus Hfe in 1883 comparedto today is dor·mitory life. Although com- plaints are ever increasing about the dorm size and comfort today, just imagine the living conditions in 1883, as it also was in 1877. Everyday, as we walk into our dorms and sit on our couches, as well as walk down the .hall to go to the bathroom and take a shower, we don't think of how much more difficult these easy things were to accomplish on Union College's campus many years ago. You ask Dormitory Life 1883 Was Not Effete . <l zn I '.l'hc ahcn·e Is a typical roo1.1 of North Coll~ge of 18~3. lt ·loelonr;cd to Frank Bailey, '85 and \'I'll!> photo- graphHd by Jess. l\lorey, '85,. Dr. Balley~s .feet a.re shown in. :tll«l picture. Evidence shown also .indicates he was studyin:;: medicine (skull), had use for a large Latin dicti~>nar:r-, studied by kerosene lamp, S\\'ei•t· his Qwn room. The room ·was heated by a sto,~e and coal was lle1)t in. boxes in the hall. \Vhor,·cr star~ }tis shJve first in tlte Fall had many visitors because n was chean,er t() get wann on somcbod~' else's stoye than to burn one's own coal. \There was no conscience .abo-ut s;tenling eoal-'-C\'Cn the dl.vinlty stud~nts \>ere careless about their coal-morals,\ said Union's treJtsure:l'. \TI1ere were two J!adlo.cks put on each box in the hall and !SOmetimes even they would not ·!>e suffici~ntly effitCi<-nt. In my r-oom there were tw•o car- pcts..-()ne . on .top of the other-a,nd whUe the picture sh<i·ws. =11 br()om it was used sparingly .because. the dust raised froin sweeping 'was insufferable .•.. To bathe, one. bad to go outdoors and go down to a room t.hat w~ furnislled in concrete \\itb a shower and nothing eBse. Sometimes it had some warm \vater l You bad tQ carry your chair with you ~ wh!eh to put your o!Qtbes and the cement floor was chilly. , •• \ how much more strenuous could these everyday tasks be, especially in the dorms? Well, just imagine living in a smaH room, about the size of a singlehedwom without a heating system exce.pt ftJJ a coal stove and a freezing wqoc:len floor. Outside every room, in :tl'lle hall, there was a box of coa:I. Wlaich was extremely expensive itJ ·the late 1800's. This coal acted as a ca.ta- ly~t to keeping warm in the cold months here in Schenectady. There was only one problem, \There was no conscience about stealing coal-even the divinity were careless about their coal~ morals. There were two padlocks put em each box in the hall and s\)metimes even they would not be sufficient enough,\ claims Union's treasurer at the time. The coa.J problem suffices evidence that keeping warm was a priority and made dOrm life very difficult. This problem doesn't even compare !() the insufferable dust that was cre- ated by sweeping the old, woode11 · floors in the donns. One last major difference in the- dorrnlife ofthe 1870's and 1880'> · compared to today, is the presence of outdoor bathrooms which were basically single rooms fum ished with concrete with a shower and nothing else. To make it worse. . you had to bring a chair in order to hang your clothes on it because the floors of ~he showers were frigid cold. Imagine walking out- side everyday in the month of January here at Union in order to take a shower. This explains why hygiene was worse in the 1800's. As the years go on here at Union . College, The Concordiensis con- tinues to cover student life aggres- sively, now for an ongoing 12() years. By the way, the next time you find yourself complaining. about the donnitory life here at our historically prestigious college. just remember how much more difficult it was at about the time The Concordywas founded, espe· cially since, '\Dormitory life in 1883 was not effete.\ Profess·or Wicks: Plan A Future .Without Bombs by Professor Franl< Wicks Meclumicul Engineering Years of terror caused by a mys- terious sender of letter bombs cli- maxed three years ago when the person dubbed as the Unabomber threatened to blow up an airliner unless his views for saving the planet from industrial progress were published by newspapers. Air travel was disrupted and edi- tors were caught between black- mail and the possibility of saving innocent lives. The New York Times and Washington Postchose to publish. The 30,000 manifesto was gen- erally dismissed as the rambling thoughts ofan environmental radi- cal although it had some remark- able similarities to the concerns about the encroachment ofhumans upon nature expressed 150 years ago by the Harvard educated her- mit Henry David Thoreau fr<>m the wilderness of Waldon Pond. The .published document also raised the suspicions of a much anguished and compassionate brother. He relayed his informa- tion to the FBI who betrayed his request for ptotecting family pri- vacy while making the arrest of Theodore Kaczynski in a humble cabin in Montana. contrast with tne leadership and courage demonstrated br Presi'- dent John Kennedy 35 years ago during the Cuban Missile Crisis. He probablyprevented Wo-rld War . . The same General LeMay had commanded the fire bombing of Japanese cities at the end of World War II. These air raids had been so destructive that it was found The Justice Department will be asking for the death penalty when it puts Harvard's other hermit on trial next month for the letter bomb murders of persons he believed were spoiling the earth. Clearly Americans -don't . \Nations and people are · want to be endangered by bombs. necessary to preserve Hiroshima and Nagasaki to be used-as virgin targets for anew type of superweapon that was under develop- ment. This contrasts with the United States position on the 100,000,000 buried land mines around the world which kill or maim 26,000 people each year, w.h ich American citizens have mostly been able to ignore since it does not happen here. becon1ing n1ore tolerant and den1ocratic with the end of colonizatEon and.·. In August, 1945 these . two cities were destroyed by atom bombs with an ilnperialisn1 arJd the advent ofnzodern global explosive equivalent of 20,000 tons of dynamite. Before Japan could surren- der General LeMay or- There is a proposed inter- national treaty to ban and re- .· teleconununicutions, conunerce and travel. '' dered one more air raid with 1,000 bombers carry- ing 10,000 tons of chemi- cal explosives. move land mines that is now supported by most countries but China and the United States. The Chainnen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and thus President Clinton oppose the treaty. TheN obel Prize C0mmittee acknowledges it is try .. ing to influence the treaty.process in awarding the Peace Prize to Jody Williams ofPutney, Vem1ont for her leadership in the Interna- tional Campaign to Ban Landmines. President Clinton;s refusal to challenge the rec<>mmendation of his Joint Chiefs of Staff is in stark U I and a nuclear holo.caus.t by ne- gotiating a settlementwi1liithe .So- viets while standing up a.gainst tl!e military advice in the f()rni of his Air Force Chief of S1aft: For 15 years Genera:! LeMay had the responsibility of rvreparing the Strategic AirComma11dto C()n- duct nuclear attacks. The: C11ban missile crisis representedcan occa.- \ sion to use this awesome power, and he cal1ed President ltemtedy a coward for negotiating.lln d then called the settlement a lost oppor- tunity to destroy the Soviet Union. It was claimed that the use of such alrpower had saved 500,000 American lives and General LeMay was recognized as an out- standing patriot, strategist and hero. Thus, it took self confidence, leadership and courage for Presi- dent Kennedy to refuse his advice with respect to Soviet missiles in Cuba. After the Cuban cris.is our attention turned to Viet N am and General LeMay proclaimed the so- lution was to bomb Hanoi back to the stone ages. The resulting years of bombs and napalm raids on Doo U Thnk Thr's Missteaks In Thiss Sintense?l Then help Amy, Tracy, & Shana and become a copy editor. 91 .8eiag a copy editor makes one feel very powerful;\ accordlng to Managing Editor (and copy editor nig~tmare) Cbr.is Leone. Ca.ll.theill at x6155!. Vietnamese cities, villages and countryside only compounded the suffering on all sides. Ironically it was the growing opposition to these misdirected initiatives in Viet Nam that pro- duced a new level of grass roots activism against aggressive for- eign pol icy. Alfred Nobel died in 1896 with the hope that his invention of dy- namite would end wars by mak- ing them too deadly .. Although his hopes were contradicted by the two world wars in the first half of this century, he may also have ju~t expected too much too soon. The Cold War is now over. Na- tions and people are becoming more tolerant and democratic with the end ofcolonization and impe· ria !ism and the advent of modern global telecommunications, com- merce and travel. Thus, for the first time since the invention of dynamite the world has become peaceful enough to condemn the use of by bombs by all nations as well as by disen- chanted groups and individuals such as at the World Trade Center and federal building in Oklahoma City. Future history books may then give Jess coverage to military battles and more due recognition for peace making leadership of citizens such as Jody Williams.

Page 8 · · October 30, 1997 • U:l!L' (GoamrClil'llsis . · · . · OP/ED ook In The Mirror And Not At Your Clothes It is a safe bet that .most Union students look in the mit-: r before going to class each day. The great commit1:nent' o attire and hair styles may lend some insight to the an- wer to a much deeper problem plaguing the campus-al- 1 ohol! · It is the bel.ief ofthis·editor that the answer to the alco~; problem on this campus 1 ies with the students in the irror. Recently, peer pressure has been argued to be the: use for the b·in.ge drinking. Would any member of the. tudent body slash his or her own wrist at the request ther student? It is not our parents' fault .that some of us drink too much: d that some of us must be escorted to the hQspital. They not hold you down from birth and pour liquor down. ur throat. It would also be a farce to blame the faculty d the stress associated with the workload for th.e prob-; em. Since everyone has a theory on the drinking problem,: let us just blame the beer companies. Those great com-, ercials and cheap prices have created the .infam.ous Ellis ps. Actually, it is one big conspiracy .in which Ellis ys the Golden Anniversary Brevv.ing Company large mounts for our business. Do not blame the greeks for the mess that has been ere- ted. They did not ask to serve a beer~ you most likely ld a cup in their faces and pleaded for a c.()Jd one. They id not bind, gag, and drag you to their house, you went i llingly. Above all, please do not blame the surrounding city o henectady. I say(sarcastically)thatthey already have enough • oblems and do not need Union students to add to them. • Ius, was it not you, the one in the mirror, who decid·ed to orne here? Next time you go out for a night ofpartyin.g., look in that irror. When you look, realize who you C!re, what you , re, and even more important, what your limits are. Take long hard look at yourself and understand t.flat whatever · tions you do, you are responsible for them. lt is not the· fault of others. The student body should support the administration's. ew letter. It is a step, along with the recent decisions by. he IFC and Panhel. to stop an accident in the making. The ncreased responsibility of R.A.'s is not a military--style· rackdown; it is Stopping the mirror from shattering and he ieces from bei laced iri a ine box. CGL The Student Nt!wspaper of Union CollegeSince1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Aileen Quigley, Fran!' Rossi EDITORS-IN-C HJEF Matt Cohen Amy DiBattista EXECUTIVE EDITORS Christopher Leone MANAGING EDITOR Peter Simon OPINIONS EDITOR Lori Green Kim Rohback ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT EDITORS Dan Queen Geoff Sullivan SPORT..!) EDITORS Michael DeMicco NEWS EDITOR Tati1111a Cogevina R<Jb Hagopian COMPUTER MANRS. l\1id1elle Tham FEATURES EDITOR Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Arn:y DiBattista COPY EDITOR Laurie Kirschner Dave Meguerdichian PHOTO EDITORS PHOTOGRAPHERS: Rick Lederer, Aaron Braunstein, Jessica Paige. STAFF: Josh Adams, Anjali Balasingham, Kelen Barr, llannah Blum, Tracy Boriskin, Jamie Chandler, Sllana Dangelo, Matt Aronowitz, Gabriela Dory, Jason Everett, Jonathan Gasthalter, Adrian MacLean, Erika Mancini, Pike Mody, Nick Papanickola'>, Eu'gene Schultz, Stefanie Speanburg, DaYid Weiner, Nelia Shah, Lisa Pert.oso, Vidoria H•rgreaves, Stephanie Slobotldn, Rebecca Thyresson, Mal.ira Wittb«lld, Con 0 • • tntons T:he Class of 2001: When a Buzz Just Won't Cut It by Tony LaVecchia Staff Writer Without responding specifi- cally to any 0f the generally inane articles regarding alco- h-ol .consumption at Union tllat have appeared in the Concordy during the last weeks, allow me to offer a few observations. As you read these words, the school has announced a tot~gh new policy on underage drink- ing. After all, this year's fr.esh.- man class can't handle their booze responsibly, so it's up .to the administration to step in and play policemen. What a ter~ rible idea. Look, I've seen my share of underage drinking go on here. Heck, maybe I've even done a bit myself; but what I tail to understand is: what's wrong with these people? Why, oh please tell me why, are so· many people so immature that they can't held any liquor? Let's examine the possible answers to these two perplex- ing questions. Perhaps the par- ents of these fine students, who are no doubt busy flooding the Dean's office with pleas to stop their sons and daughters from dying ofthe drink, should have taken the time to talk to their kids about the sauce. Who knows, maybe a couple of glasses .of wine with dinner wouldn't kill anyone- maybe it would even save a coup.le of na'ive freshmen who think get~ ting I.oaded is the most myste- riQus, cool thing ever. How do these parents expect the school, even with its fine facl!lty to student ratio, to do what they failed to do in the first place--teach their J...ids to make responsible decisions. One has to wonder if the same brain iac s poisoning them- selves up here at sclwol ever snuck a few nips in at home, behind the watchful backs of their parents. What exactly de we hope to accomplish by banning under- age drinking? Do we realisti- cally think we can stop.people who want to drink from drink- ing? More importantly, should we? After all, in three years or so, these same underage people will again (like the first time they left the nest) be given the opportunity to consume spirits. Will they· learn anyth.ing in those three years if they are sheltered by the booze police at Union? Probably not. The only resu·lt this program ntight have will be a bunch ofpeop.le in the hospital who are of le- gal age. . What we really should do as an institution is get the admis- ~ions Qffice to weed (I suppose weed belongs in a separate ar- ticle) out the clowns who are going to drink themselves sick. Then we need to scale back the nature and scope of the drink- i!1g that goes on here a bit. We need to provide an envi- ronment where people can lean1 to drink responsibly without the pressure ofhaving to get sick or be a \tough\ drinker. So, think about· it, Dean's of- fice, is a simple ban the way to go? No one I kn.ow of has proved the ax:iom that you have to be 21 to make a good decision. You just have to be free, mature, and well-in- formed. Mr. LaVecchia is a former Se- nior Editor of the Concordiensis Letters Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed and saved on a high density disk although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in • particular. Any opinion columns, or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, · and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not nec.essarily reflect the opinion of · the Editorial Board. TheConcordiensis is printed by World Media, 11 04Centra1 Avenue, Al·bany, NY, 12205. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercolleglate Press (lP), National Student News Service, & King Syndicates. II It JS.S.l bi\' ne:v Intc; Cm a lo upt takt it. Il this our; ofi uni sist adn pie• alre to c you Jus fra1 dro 1 sho Par Par WOI Th.i uni this foil WOi am1 1- djfj it n car pie imt bro to pJe, all as! s mir the lik( nee ab<

'\ .. . . . . IF ·c I't' · y·· · • T· ·c· · h .· .·. •·· •· .s ·.· · .. Im:e .· · o .·· . . ange P·anhel's Doin'' It, Why Can't We by Peter SimoJJ· · .OJliitiaJts Editor . It o~curred to me after the first i's.s.ue of Deinos, the new biweekly ca01pus~wide news·paper, th:at both the Interfraternity and Panhellenic Cuu11cjls hav~ the potential to go · a long way on this campus. It is . up to us, the greek pqpu!ation, to take this pot~ntial and rum with . it However, in orde.r to achieve this goal we must not look ~t ourselves as brothers and sisters of individual houses,.hut as one united brotherhood · and sisterhood. As it stands now, the administrati·on can do as they please with us be.cause we are already divided; the next step is to conquer. The next Step, tnind you, is nottoo far down the road. Just look arovnd the ooJntrY:. fraternltie·s and sorotities hre · dropping like flies. To b~fg!n, ourmaln concern should berebu+ldingthe IFC arid Panbel to what they otu;::e were. Panhel has aJ.ready begun working in the right dhrection. This tenn we'v.~ seen numerous unified events by the sororities ori this campus. The JFC needs to follow in Panhd's footsteps and work towards produci,ng unity among the hrothers as w.ell How do we do this? This is a difficult question to answer, but it must be answered. As far as I can tell it all begins with pledging. Pledging is an important part of becoming a brother in any house. What needs to be taught throughout the pledging process is that we are all together. Every house is just as great as the next. See, the way I pic.ture it in my mind is the IFC as a nucleus, with the houses orbiting the council like the planets' do the sun. It is necessary that changtls be made about th·e way th~ngs are currently run. First, IFC meetings should not hav·e to be worked in around house meetings. House :rneetiags Ill ust be worked arou,nd the scheduJed lFC meeting time. A set time should be set up at the beginnipg o.ffal:l term ~nd shot~ld remainul1til the year comes to an . end in June. Second, the ·IFC :needs to be · run in a more orderly fashion. We must establish a stronger central gov1;1rnment. ln order to do th.~s we should shadow the Stud~nt Government Assoc.iatio.!l or sorne other s·uccessfuliy run organization.. . · . Another-important point is our priorities. If one is elected into a . position·onthe council, he shouid. not be able to hold a similar position in another organizatior., due to a confliCt of inter€Sts. Heel 'if someone could' focus more or . iheir.time just on the lPC rnore would be accomP,lished, Don't get me wr\:mg-:C!:lris B;rantigan has done a fabulous joh as our LFC President thus far, but he can't do it alone. · I just returned from our weekly I·FC meeting, where only four :houserepresentatives snowed up, That's fat ftom acceptable. How can an organization possibly achieve success when only a third of it's melnbers attend. Once full atter ·dance is reached, then we ca11 discuss setting up a stable council. Let's not forget that when the IFC falls, the houses will fall Priorities, My third and final p<Yint has to do with our budget. We need one. Currently our funds will keep us afloat What exactly do I mean by \afloat?\ Take a log and throw it into a lake on a calm day, That's the IFC with our currel1t budget. We can do better. Fund-raising is a must for this council, and I believe we can raise a substantial amot1nt of money, Mo' money, mo' power. 0 ••• tn1ons An Explanation Of My Behavior Last Friday Afterno;on by Frank Rossi 'Et[i(or-inMCitief Word travels fast o.n a campus of two thousand students, and this week, l faced se vera! questions abotrt rny actions during last Friday's Student Fomm meeting with tlle 'Ttustees. This ·opinion wHI explain what happened at that meeting_ and why I did what I did. Lastweek, a hottopic in the Stu- dent F()rurn and across campus was alcohol and the possibility of Union tu.ming into a dry campus. I assured people that the issu~ was blowing over and not to worry about iL However,. the night be- fore the Trustees' Meeting, I heard from reliable sources that Pres id ilnt H uli had actually propQsedstrict penalties for underag.e drinking in dor- m·itori\Cs to the Trustees' ~ -- {-: Advisory Committee. I also beard that the Trustees were.-in favor of a bold . move <Jnthe part ofth-e ad- ministration in regards to alcohol~. Nearly everyone I spoke to last week was against drastic changes on the earn,. pus, The I FC and the Panhellenic Council came up with some good seJf-.impose<l changes to al kviate the \alcohol problem\ in ·our cam pus by attempting to · . contrQ.I the atrn rysphere of frater- nity patties (by having mandatory sober I:Jrothers and sisters, for ex- ample). Instead· ·Of being content with thesernoves, though, the Trustees, · 2-:!'t~.- a thorough presentation by Chris Erantigan and Kirsten Kohn, down-played the greeks' changes as not crucial to independents. · This sllowed how out of touch the Trustees could be, as greeks con- trol al>out one halfofthe socialli fe on fhis <:(lmpus. Changes in fra~ ternities. and sororities do affect the entire campus in some form or another. When I found out that a . minor who got caught drinking twice could possibly be expelled (later described by President Hull as suspended, not expelled), I re .. alized that I had to react somehow, You see, personally, I cannot stand alcohol. I am not a social fiend of any sort, and I personally have had more trouble with friends and alcohol than I would like to remember. However, that is l, not you. When .I was eJected to my posi- tion of Senior Class Vice Presi- dent, I was elected to represent not only seniors, but also tbe .school. I know that students would stand for some sort ofcodified penalties. for drinking, but strict penalties would not toleratecl because Qf their ability to force drinking off campus (drunk driving). I became passionate when I ad- dressed the Trustees. However, I admit, I was ptobablytoo passion- ate. Yet, I do not regret the over-- all results. First, the Trustees and administration cannot ever come back to the students and say that we did not complain about certain penalties that may be imposed on underage drinkers. When the meal plan decision was made three years ag.o, the ad- ministration slid it through witlt limited SAC support. This time, I wanted to make sure that every- one knew that the students deseiVe a voice on this issue. 1 admit I of- fered four resignations to the Trustees and President HuH if un- , reasonable expulsions were part of any new policy, because such a policy would point to the deterio• ration of any student influenceon this campus. Second, if the meeting was a love-fest between the Student Fo- rum, Trustees, and administration, whatwouldthathave gotten done? The Trustees spend at most two days a tem1 around tl1is campus. Sometimes, t~ere will be conflict- ing opinions, and sometimes, these opinions need to come out. As I told the attendees, however, any conflictthat is felt during the meet- ing is meant to stay in the meet- ing, Through the exchange of di- verse ideas is the only way which solutions can be found. Conflict is not always bad, and last Friday was such a time. I learned a lot, and the Trust- ees admitted that they learned a lot al,mut the im- pending situation, Over the past week, I have been apologizing for my actions and perceived attacks on certain people. I was not attacking individu- als. I was stating that cer- tain actions and future ac- tions by the administration were possibly detrimental in the grand scheme ofthings. For instance, would you turn in a heavily drunken friend in need of help ifyou thought you ri~kedget~ tjng that friend suspended? While Presideht Hull attempted to place a slippery slope on th:is question, the answer is that many students, including myself, might not I did my job last Friday after- noon, and I will not apologize for that. The only thing I will apolo~ gize for is my tone at certain points in the meeting (it may have been counterproductive). I, like the rest ofthe Student Forum, am acco!lnt-. able for anything the administra- tion passes that is controversial (like the riew schedule or new al- cohol policies). I may be a senior, but that is n.o excuse not to take a passionate stance toward my job. Those of you who know me would expect nothing less. Eat, Drink, And Be Merry-Responsibly by Josh Mendelsohn Contributing Writer In response to Mike DeMicco and Andrea Schulman's article on drinking at Union l hiwe a few choice words on the subject. First of all, I don't think students at Union drink enough anymore. I am not saying that everyone should go out and get wasted ev'- ery night, but there is something very social and bonding .about hanging with your friends and having a few drinks. These are the times that you will remember ten years from now, not the night you spent in the library reading the latest Biology text There is, of course, a need for moderation, however. When you arrive at Union, you need to learn your limits. While there is something to be said for the occasional drunken blur of an evening, know what your body can handle. There is no unifonn drinking limit. Everyone's body reacts differ- ently to beer and the di ffetent forms of alcohol. Furthermore, partying with a decent \buzz\ tends to be more fun than finding out from your friends what idiotic things you've done the night be- fore that you yourself can not re- member. Moral of the story: drink often, drink .socially, and drink re- sponsibly.

Domino's Pizza 716 State Street Schenectady, NY Union College Specials!! Buy 2 Medi:um Handtossed Pizzas With 1 Top~ping On Each $9199+ Tax Buy 1 Large Handtossed Plain Pizza $6.99+Tax Phone.' (518)372-4441 Store Ho·urs: -. _ Mon .. Thur 4.:30PM-2:00AM- Fri-Sa.t 11AM-2.AM- Sun 1-1AM-1AM UNION LAUNDRY 56-1 NoU Stre-.'t Schen~tadyt NY 12308 71 Cents A Wash With Our Toke1t System Free Dryi·ng Tuesdays & Thursdays 8an1 - 3pm -:.NEW TRIPLE LOAD WASHER.:· •• • . A I-leal thy Investn1ent in Your l~uture · Ft·ank Gallo & Son Flot 1 ist . . Health Care. Those two words have been the source of much discussion · recently. Probably because we as a nation know the importance of investing in a healthy furure. So do minions of patients who choose chiropractic as their · preferred source of health care. The chiropracti<; beliefs in fitness. nutrition, prevention, and natuntl mainteflanc<: n'l:\ke good sense. WeJiness, you see, is the normal state ofbcing• . Nt\1rYork State government agrees:. They have recently passed the Insurance Equality biU that mandates insurance coverage for chiropractic care. - For over 75 years. New York Chiropractic College bas upheld a tradition o( excellence in chiropractic · higher edu¢;ation. Our combined tradicions_ old and new, have built the . base from whieb the chiropractic . doctors of the future are created. Choose New Yc>rk Chiropractic CoUege. A healthy investment for today and tomorrow. I Ja na co ch str TI th< TI br: thl m< im le1 en hu an ge in Pn lie tig res tiv I m<' tis1 lUI ser the wi1 rna ne' Wi em We ces l mo nar ers pa~ yot wo to a COI1 me dra spi< ma1 dis< sag Thi you Tht the ort: or c A mel Tex ' amJ Wo phr: higl BoJ, war

Science a11d Technology . illlp· U::t1mnroimsis • Octob-er 30, 1997 ·• Pagr II __ ......_ ___ ,...._ _____ ~~-.___.__.. ----~-·~ --~------------------,..-· Science & Technology Is It Worth The High? Tbe FaCts On Marijuana by Victoria Hargreaves S&TEditor Pot, weed, herb, grass, Mary Jane. You can ca!Ht by amy other name, but it ,is still marijuana. How does marijuana work? It is composed <Jf approximately 400 chemjcab i.ncluding-THC, th.e strongest. !tatty tissues soak up THC and dls:tribute it throughout the \body via the blood stream. THC impairs the nerv@ cells in the . brain, particularly in the sections that contr<Jl memory. Com- mon shortterrn side effects include impaired vision, red eyes, difficulty learning and remembering, in- creased oloodpressure, feelings of hunget, decreased coordination, and an ekvated heart rate. A stron- ger variety ofmadjuana can result ·in attacks ofparanoia and anxiety. Prolonged use of marijuana is be- lieved to resuH in complacency, fa- tigue, cancer, and problems of the respiratory, i1nmune .• and reproduc- tive systems. Researchers riow suspect that marijuami.kills brain cells. Scien- tists discovered that the brains of middle-aged rats given THC re- sembled the brains .of rats twice their age that had had no contact with the drug. Studies have proven thatover long periods oftime, mari- jua,na can ''take a toll on mental functions.\ In a sfl!dy which sur- veyed long~tirne marijuana users from Costa Rica, researchers found thatthe smokers had difficulty fo- .cusing on and recalling a brief I ist of items in a basic memory test. Marijuana smoke con- tains the same carcino- g;ens as tobacco smoke. \ ... Someone who smokes fiv-e joints per week may be taking in as many cancer-causing ch-emicals as someone who smokes a fuU pack of cigarettes every day.\ Therefore, many smok- ers ofmarijuana develop· respiratory -conditions, such as chronic bronchi- tis and inflamedsinuses. Repeated usage of marijuana can result in the destruction of th.e lungs and air .. ways. \Scientists have found signs of lung tissue injured or de- stroyed by marijuana smoke .. \ In a sttidy performed in California in which 450 males who smoked mari- jaana \were tracked, the research- ers \found that the marijuana smok- ers had more sick days and more doctor visits for respiratory prob- . lemsand other types ofillnessthan did a similar group who did not smoke either substance.\ Studies conducted with animals have proven that THC damages the cells- and tissues involved in the im- mune system. ''rut both animal and human studies have shown that marijuana impairs the ability ofT-cells in the lungs' immune defense system to fight off some infections.'' \Heavy marijuana use can. affect hormones in both males and fe- males, so it can affectsexual char- acteristics and reproductive fl!nc- tion.\ Marijuana can delay pu- berty, decrease sperm count, and prevent the release of eggs from \ . the ovaries. In a study conducted in Mem- phis, Tennessee, researchers found that of 150 reckless drivers, 33 percent of them displayed symp- toms of marijuana use and 12 per- cent had traces of marijuana and <::ocaine in their blood. 'Marijuana impairs one's senses of timing, coor- dination,. alertness, and performance. \For in- stance; the • marijuana user may have trouble judging distances and may have delayed reac- tions to sights and sounds that drivers need to notice.'' Many misconceptions surround this controver- sial drug. Despite popu- lar belief, marijuana can stay in a chronic user's system for weeks. Since 1970, marijuana has been considered a \controlled sub- stance.'\ hi the smoke form, mari- juana has not been aceepted by the medical community. However, THC in the pill form is sometimes distributed to patients with cancer to control nausea and vomiting. AII)S patients have also been administered THC to regulate weight. Babies of mothers who smoked marijuana during pr~g­ nancy are shorter, smaller, and have smaller heads as compared to those <Jfmothers. who did not use marijuana. The breast milk, highly concentrated with THC, is believed to stunt the baby's motor controls and delay development. Babies born. to marijuana,..using mothers frequently suffer from complica- tions of the nervous system as well. The strength of marijuana has increased since 1960. Strength is measured by the average amount ofTHC found in test samples con- fiscated by law enforcement agen- cies. \'Stronger marijuana means stronger effects.'' Common mari- juana is approximately three per- cent THC. Sinsemilla, a variety of marijuana made solely from the buds orJlowers oftheplant, ranges \from 7_5 percentto24percentTHC. While hashish, a sticky resin from the flower, averages from 3.6 per- cent to 28 percent THC, hash oil, a tar-like liquid made from hashish, averag.es 16 percent to 43 percent THC. While 100,000 people annually s.eek assistance for marijuana use, there is no medication to treat mari- juana dependence. SouTce; www.nida.nilt.gov/ MarijTeentxt-lltfll[ GeekSpeaks: Netscape and the World Wide Web by Je11n.ifer Trotts StCIJI Writer There are many services that are made possih le by the Internet, news groups, ftp servers,. World Wide Web, and more. In th;is dis- cussion we wi II concentrate on the World Wide Web and how to ac- cess it. The Wmld Wide Web (com- monly known: as WWW) is aptly named. I tis anetworkofweb serv- ers (computers that store web pages and make them available to you) that are located all over the ··world. This network is analogous to a web beca[lse each computer is connected to many others ih innu- merable ways,.such that if it were drawn oot it would seem like a spider's web. It is also fragile in many ways, as many of us have discovered by receiving 401 mes- sages when requesting a page. This simply means that the page you requested is no longer there. These messages can be because the server is not working properly or the files were renamed, moved, or deleted. A web page is simply a text docu- ment created using HTML (Hyper Text MarkupLanguage). For ex- ample, when you write a paper in Word and y()u want to have a phrased in boldface, you simply highlight the phrase and select Bolct.lnan HTMLdocument ifyou want a word to be bold must puttags which mark the beginning and ending of the bolded area. (e.g. <B>Th is text should be bold</B> ). The tag in this example is <B> and </B>, signifying that whatever is in between them should be bold. Your Word document stores this information where you cannot see it, while HTMLdocuments do not. But you cannot see these tags if you view the document through a web browser, which re- the pages for \t anoo) wait for your request to view their page. This means you need a method of com- municating with the servers and viewing the pages. Enter the· web browser. Current common ex- amples are Netscape Navigator and Microsoft Internet Ex.plorer. These programs allow you to view your favorite web sites. When a web page .is requested, the HTML docu- Source\ from the \View\ menu in Netscape. This will show you the code th<1t was needed to command Netscape to create the web page ·you are looking at. Th.is ability to view the source code is one of the best things about the WWW. All of th.e artistry you see on the web is available for use on your own site (within certain limits, like copyright laws}. But if you see a places these tags with the desired out- put. · \Tize World Wide Web (com- . monly know11 as WWW) is . web page design that strikes your fancy, it is a simply mouse dick away to find ou-t exactly how it was done. Im- A web site is composed of many web pages._ You navigate through the site (and pos- sibly to other sites) via links. These are the words or images that change . ·aptly na1ned. It is a netwoJ\k of ·web servers (con1pt1ters tlzat · store web pages and nzake tlze111 ayailable to yo 11) tl1at ages are also available for the taking. You like an · are located all over tl1e WOI\ld '' image~ right click (Win· dows) o,r .your arrow cursor to a hand when'ever it· passes over them. The words are generally underlined and bright blue,. but every page can set its own link color. We call links that do not go anywhere \broken links\ sometimes these will give youthe.401 message. Web servers those ment fs sent over the network to your computer. Then your web browser displays:~to your screen the specified words and images. The HiML document contains commands that the web browser understands in the form of tags. To view the original HTML docu- can ch()ose \Vi . hold d<Jwrt the mouse button (Mac) over the desired im- age and a small menu will pop up. One of the choices should be ;to save the image. You can then save the image to your hard drive or floppy. Of course you can get more than just HTML source code and im· the web. discovered. There are numerous sites that contain freeware and shareware for you to down load. These pages all<Jw you to try out software before buying in the case of shareware, or simply have in the case of freeware. These are usu- ally programsthat were created by individuals with a lot of free time. As a wliole they can be a great way to waste an afternoon playing and may occasionally be helpful. One page to check out for shareware and freeware as well as new demos is http://www.download.com The WWW is also a great source for information if you know how to find it. Because the web is so frag- ile and constantly changing it is necessary to have a way of search- ing it. There are numerous search engines on the web. Some of the more popular are Lycos, Yahoo, Hotbot, Webcrawler, and Excite. Knowing how to use them effec- tively simply comes with titne and practice. One final note, the WWW is currently a bastion for free speech, so you may find sites which go against your beliefs or morals. This should 11ot stir you to encourage the banning ,of such sites. Free Speech Online (www.eff.org/ bloeribbon.html) is a very impor- tant struggle to keep the web dirty. The web is a great medium for ex- pression and the sharing of ideas, restricting that would be taking a towards the

Paoc 12 · ITl~t· tCtntnn-t'til'llsis ·October 30 1997 · Features ,... I ' , ' ' ' - WALKING THE STREETS IN Star Athlete and Bright Student . SEARCH oF KIT·KAT's AND Tonya Capparello's Diverse Showings on.Campus OTHER THINGS by Michelle Tham Features Editor ---.......,~,.__~~-~-..--~---., p~rience to her benefit in both her and will give hell to <li1Y0ne whom tending to be cool that they didn't by Hannah Blum academic and' athletic ventures. \I he discovers stealing from him. have the time to pretend to be a - StafjWriter cam:e back to school more confi- That'show Halloween went for princess or a vampire. That one d t N- 1 h- - d' t\ -d en •· • ow · - ave a - nee Ion an - the majority of my childhood. I night is a chance to be someone know what I want to be doing. Well, I suppose with -that oh- was a free spirit, an overjoyed kid or something else for a little while, Tonya Capparello, a senior at Knowing what's ahead helps you so•black-and-orangeholidayap\ who couldn't wait for school to let a chance to run wHd through the Union College, ha$ distinguished take school more seriously.\ proaching, I must join the band- out (the exaltation of the sound of streets and have Silly String fights herself as an acc·omptis-hed CappareHo admits that forming wagon and te'lt some \trick-or- that .ringing beH!) so that 1 could and watch fam.1lies walking past •· achiever in both academics and friendshipswas.amajorpartofher treatish\ tale. start the rounds as soon as possible. you, perfectly accepting ofthe fact athletics. CappareJlo has been on life during her first two y.ears at I have been a gypsy, a bad Somewhere arouncininthgrade, that they have ghosts and two- the varsity field hockey and bas\ Union. Howev,er,. through her imitation ofSm1ufette,.a farmer, ·I found new partners in crime to headed monsters for children. ketball teams at Union since her .classes, co-op, and athletics she a flirty little black cat and She- \walk the streets\ with me. My HaHoween· brings me home, freshman year. A native of has made her a~ademic.s and ath- Ra, Princess of Power. My little friends and I wo11ld feel so aJ.,. carries me to a warm suburban · Johnstown, New York, Tony a letiGs major priorities in her life, brother (in some Ninja Turtle- mighty in our matching costumes road lined with Identical mail- came to Union far its strength in \She is very goal~oriertted ... and type attire) has run along with and walk gallantly from house to boxes and fiery-colored trees., · both academics and athletics. \I a success story.\ says C\'lach me in a feeble attempt to be~t Something in the f.a'll ~:iris sooth- . came to Union because it is a small Bevelandet. \I thin,k Unimt Coh me to the doors of those wei- .----~-------~---, ing at1d calm on that one night. school with a good engineering lege has given her a lot .of that.'' coming, candy-filled houses. ,; Halloween brings Everything feels safe and sweet. · program. itwasdos~tohome, and capparello; a .four-year letter We chase each other through I still like to dress up and it makes · the financial aid is great here.\ winner in both fie.Jd hockey and piles of fallen leaves, making me home, CQTfies me . me happy to know thatl 'canstill The i6:p scorer on the_ field basketball, is .no stranger to sue-. sure to jump over the exposed t L. b do that, even though I maybe 19 hockey sqtm? during he~ junior cess. After playio.g th-ree years of o a warm suuur ··an td· · c 11 t· t - roots of trees ... it's no fun to years o . . . ~ampmgn,: appare o con mu~s. o varsity'_rield hockey a 11 d fours get a skinned knee. My dad road, fin.ed With The holiday lets m!e·feel like improve' her stick work andag~hty , years of varsity basketbaLl at standsinthestreetwatchingus thel'ittlekidwhol'stillamot:i'the skillsf?r.field.ho~key. · . Nhnstowh, High School, Cap- scurry up fo the orange glow- identical mailbOXeS inside, andmy playful nature can . Her determimitJOh and aggres- parello came to Union and became ing houses and laughs under come out for a little White. l am siveness have been pFoven assets a cr]tical player on both teams. the moon, secretly wishing he and fiery-colored Cinderella again and-ready to e·n- both on and.off tl\te field. \Tonya A starter for both the field were allowed to run along with trees. '' gulf'as many Kit Kat's as pos- ' is a very corifidentwoman. What- hockey and basketball teams since us. sible. (Did you know that candy ever she .. goes out and does, she her sophomore ye-ar, she has flour- When our legs feel like jello, doesn't Jmve any ca:lbrieson Hal- . does well,\ says her coach Linda ished and improved each season. when we have \hit\ 1 all the good house. Halloween parties came loween?, :It's the truth, I swear.) Bevel_ander. Capparell? has ~Is? During her jun,ior campaign on the candy houses, and there is noth- sometime later, and the apple ci- Granted, there aren 'tmanyplaces found e~trem~ success m he_r civil field hockey team she lead in both ing left to keep us walking any der was never as innocent as it ap- in Schenectady where 1 can just go . engineering major. Last fa!l she goals and overall points. because further, we race each other peared. I -usually .drank water in- run off trick or treating, but my took a semester off from Umon to she took a term off last year.c:lur- home, ready to unveii our newly stead. WhaM noticed mostly about friends and I are pretty good at work at an environmental engi- ing field .. hoe,key . season, acquired sugar treasures. Pillow- these parties was tnat I didn't get prdending. 'neering firm in Syracuse, NY. · CappareH<;> was able to. return to cases of chocolate-caramel-al- to come home with a bag of candy l'll have to devise some cutesy During· ·her co-op, Tony a the line up this year with one last mond delights fall .in a delicious and my arms felt the loss, wanting outfit forth is Friday, but I suppose learned about toxic substances and season of NCAA eligibility. pile onto the den. floor. to hold some weight of chocolate it won't be that difficult--most of their affects on the nearby Hudson Capparello's assets are her de- We throw out the Good N' so badly. Halloween took on some my friends think that what I wear River. Her position included ana- sire, her determination, and her Plenties and give the 3-Muske- different meaning, and I didn't like to class most days could pass for lyzing these substances from wa- drive, which benefit her in both her teers Bars to Dad (they're his fa- it. a costutn~ anyway (Yes, I will ad- · ter, soil, andsediments, and locat- athletics and academics at Union. vorite). My brother Michael Lateran, I decided that I would mittoowningleopard-printshorts; ing their positions in and among Union is known for its rigorous hoards the Reese's Peanut But- rather creep through the night they can come in handy). I'll also . the Hudson.. et1gineering courses and strong ter Cups, and ofcourse I steal alongside Michaelthanspendthe havetornakeaquiekstopatPrice Since retuming to Union, division III athletic programs. \I all of his Kit Kat's. Mom isn't evening in a room o-f blue jean- Chopper for an economy-size bag Capparello has been using what wish r had ten of Tonya,\ com- too crazy about all the candy, but clad teenagers who had obviously of Kit Kat's. My brother is not here she has learned hands-on and now ments Bevelander. \'She sets goals I catch her stealing a chocolate forgotten that Octpber 31st was to play with me, but I think I can has a part time job working at the for herself and then works very confection once in a while .. She supposed to be about feeling convince a couple of people to be Chazen Company, a civil engineer- hard to achieve them.\ Since her always takes from my pi.le, be- young and vibrant There was no silly with me. I haven't met a girl · ing firm in Waterford, NY. AI- freshman year, Capparello has cause my brother has a tafly of life at those parties, a11d I am sure yet that could refuse free choco~ . thoug!) the transition from her co- been. overcoming difficulties and each of his different candy bars that mostpeoplewere so busy pre- late. opto studentaga·in was not an easy growing as an athlete and as a per- ~~~,;,;,;;,,;;;;;;,;;,;;,;;,,;;,;~;;,;;;~;_;;;,;;;====~~=====:d:~=================='lf. one, Cappa!elle has used her ex- son. Come make your own Music Video cd : . F I Due to some technical difficulties,. there will be no D & M column tllis week. We apologize to all our fans out there. We'll never letcba' down again. Also, to every- one who thought they had.seen the last of the infamous · duo, sorry to disappoint you. See you aU next week-:- .. Djamhbi and Mohmar in full effect. Before we part, we leave you with the great words of Krusty the Clown to ponder: \Send in the clowns~ those daffy hmghy clowns. Send in those soulful and doleful, schmalty, by the bowlful, clowns.'' Until then . ,. .

Friday, October 31 is the best night of the year I think. This is the night that all the little devils much like me can ~o out and revel on a night that isde-dic:ated to mis_~ chief. Not only tl1~t~ but ifyou're lucky, you g0 home at the end of the night with a giilnt bag of loot. Now, wh.en I was younger the idea of having h11ge amounts of candy for weeks OEI end made me shiver with delight You can all see where thatgot me toclay. New that I am older; HaHowe,en has taken on a totally new meaning. White getting bags ofcant:ly is still gre&t and all, Halloween, 'l feel, is now all about dressing up and being with friends. When 1 talk ab{)tlt dr~ssing up, l don't mean being Elino o.r the horrible blood-soaked axe mut\- derer. To me, dressimg up is dawn- ing the tail and homs <>four friend Luc.ifer. For all of y<>u out there who are a little slow, that would be Satan. Each costu1neshould re- flect what the person is like some- what inside. My friend ft•om h<Hlle, Alicia, would be a cat year after year through high scho()il' . She would go the whole nilte yards--black spandex body suit, t:at ears with whiskers, and a elite tittle tail. A II night long, no matte-r where we went, she would act like a cat. Now, I don't mean she walked around on all foursor meowed all night, but she wot~ld slink around and act catlike. I, on the other hand, like lsaid, w~mld join the ranks of the other pitchfork-toting devils out there. I was the one who on this night would be ,the major troublemaker .. Nothing serious, just smafl things that mad¢ everyone laugh a Tittle bit. Putting ice cold water in the barrel for apple-bobbing was a classic feat. of mine. See.in:g the lookon the first few victims' faces as they took the plunge into that ice bath only expecting to come up with an apple (not to have tlleir senses flooded from the cold, cold water) was particularly amusing. We were11 't ever m~liicious: we never egged a house or toilet .. pa- pered a tree. We did, on one Hal- loween, buy whipped cream ~nd spray it all over our friend cars <>ne night, but later on it rained, so he never saw it. Halloween, however, also gcees far beyond simple little tricks and stuffing your face full of cartdy. Halloween is the culmination <lfall the other fun days of the year. It takes the aspect of story-telling from the summer, the familiarity of gathering with loved ones around a fire in the middle of win- ter (note: .replace a fire with a goo<! scary movie; I recommend The Exor·::ist), and just having friends around makes for a great night. So, many ofyou might have done this a I ready, but how many of you would do this here when the call of a fraternity J>arty is ringing in your ears.! sugg.est doing both, go to a party i11 :yo~r costume. (I will . be. I heard tb:tt ,Jirls like a horny . deviL) I am hoJling. that we can get the school to dt~s;s up the statue of· Chester Artlit~r a.s the Vampire we aH want him to be. How cool would it be tc .see President Hull and Dean 1\'lfred out on the town as Ragged::Y ~nn and Andy? I wouldpee;illlll y pants if! saw that sight Why did l write an article like this again instea<l of another sex article? It is. b-ecause, tome, Union has lost the true meaning of the event. Yeah, we ha:ve one or two haunted hollses.,~nd then we all go out to a party; <£ say funk that-- dress up ancl go a little crazy. Why not go to cl.ass 011 Friday in your costume. Mak:.e people smile; have fun. I knowl~ilL lfyou want,just look for the 's;hort round gut with the set ofh~rns a11d the pitchfork. Some HarliJiween Tips: -Bring a tla.slllight. -Bring a r<Jeilly big bag. -Go with frie11ds. -Don't take health food . • -Alwayssa)'th~nk you. -Wear a seu ccstume. -Wear n10 .co~tume at all. -Get frightfully drunk--it makes the night SQ mucll scarier. -Have fun! ~--~------~--------------~-------------------------~~--------------~ Stressed Out? ... Try a Bag of Potato Chips --~----------~----~-- by Reuel Daliiels Staff Wrlle-r our :-tresses out of our minds for a ting in my fri entl'S room as we pro- few minutes. crastinate ahoiitallthe work we are Have you ever noticed the doing, whetJ s!Id{ienly someone power that food has over people? has the brillia11t idea to get some I think I may ha'Ve found the Just walking down the hall to the takeout. perfect stress rei iev er--food. 1 bathroom, the smell of popcorn in Whether it is Vlings or Chinese, don't know why l turn to Wheat the lounge is enough to make you we are alwa)i's re11dy to procrasti- Thins when I am getting nervous want to make a bag yourself. 1 nate even morce once we have our for an upcoming te::st, or why I don'tknowwhatiwoulddowith- stomachs fEJll a11d our senses reach into a bag of clllps at two in out popcorn every once and a sharpened, the morning as I am typing the last while. I love th()r;e tintes when we all sentence of a paper, J jLtst know sit around aflcljllst stuff ourfaces. that food has been my sole sup- ,....-..........,,-, 1-lo_v_e_t..,..h.,-o-· -s~e._t~i~m~e-~- . .,_.._,. I love the \Nay we forget abaut porter in my times of need. our stresses a:s we .devour as When I get bored; J .always Wizen We a// Sit Qf0U11d much oftllefocdas we can, our find myself eating.. r also eat · · eyes getting vtiJer the more we when I am worried aild when I and jUS( stuff OUf manag~ tost[lffinto ourselves. I am happy. You're probably faces. n love the conversations we have. thinking, with all this food con- We talk abolit school and guys sumption, isn't she gaining Frozen yogurt also has that won- and howmucllllolllework we have weight? My solution, ofcourse, is derfully amazing stress-relieving left to do. w~ do the normal girl my fast metabGiism and the luxu- power. Maybe it's just the very gossip as we waste as much time . roles of the weight fO()Jnand tread- · essence of it's nickname, \fro. yo,\ as possible by,eatirJg and giggling. mills. that entices one to go and get a cup Food has ill at p.ower to take Food helps me in many differ'\ from Dutch Hollow. Maybe it'sthe away our stre~s:esand help us fot- ent ways. When 1 arn depressed fact ,that there are so many differ- get our problems. f.\ or the most part with my life; a pint llfice cream enttypes of delicious toppings you it works, until vvehave to go back usually does the deed, along with <;an choose from. No matter what to our own world.sand start stress- a heartwarming conversation and time of day or night, food has that ing again abou:t llow much w.ork · A11i Difranco playing in the back- powerfully alluring quality that we we have to do a11Cihow much work ground. When my frien<lsand I are often find ourselves succumbing we can'tpossil:lJ:y:'ieem to get done. up late studying, a pi.zza seems to to in all those times of sttess or Even then, tllot1glt, there is always . be the ideal study break. Even a need. food available fo-r us when we · walk to get some coffee helps put My favorite stress relief is sit· need it. Pointless Observations The Startling Truth of it All by David Kay Staff Writer In ~eference to the article I wrote a few weeks ag0 about my encoun- ter and attempted m11gging by a \dark guy\ in Schenectady, it seellls as tho1,1gh some people may have taken the refere11ce to be rac- ist. l also stated that being white a11d f<J.irly well•off, I was \in the min~rity\ in Schenectady. Unfor- .turutdy, it wasn't u11tiil after I wrote it that I realized ;it wasn't a gllod idea to bring race into the issue. sending me hate mail and making threatening phone calls tome say- ing that you're going to \k.ick my ass,\ I'd like to see you try. Let's face it. If you're giving that much attention to a stupid freshman getling his first chance to speak his mind, then get a life. If you're really opposed to what I write then here's an idea--don't read it. I hear all this ridiculous talk about people who are \really op- posed\ to the things I write in my column. What do you think this column is a11yway, the Ku Klux H()wever, if it were a \white Klan message? I know there isn't g11y\ whc, asked too mudt to do 111e for money around here but antlfdl1owed me sit around and \I'm sick o~'the amu11d until I .., drink, but these gave him some, shallow and com- two opti()ns are I W()U ld have pietely self-righ- better than wast- st:at(ldthat in my ing your tirne artide instead. feous people here with threatening My reference to who think that phone cans and \a dar~ guy\ letters. everyone should doem•t have Look. Here's anytlling to do conform to what an idea. If witEua<:e. From they think is the you're that tile r<Jsponse .1 right way to be., strongly op- recei ved from posed to what I th~ article, I re- write then call alized how up- ~...-_..__....__ ________ ..J me and we'll tigll.t people re- ally are around here a11d how much they Ctre in need of a cultural les- son tit ern selves. lfycu think that it is tacistto say that I was almost mugged by a \dark guy,\ take a trip bthe south. Five yearsago, a high school prin- cipal in Mississippi ballned inter- racial couples from attending the prllm together. Thirteen years ago, a fiie11d ofmy parents' walked into a lamdromat in Georgia only to fi11d tl1at he had to washbis clothes in a separate section because he was bfack. This is racism, and this isrecent. If you think that what I wrote was racist, co11sider these instances for a moment. i d()n ~t want to make this co 1- umn serious and ruin its .intent, but wllenl get letters from people tell- ing rue that I'm a \sheltered rich kid,'\ I !lave to sit back alJd laugh. Y ()U can't be all that worldly your- self if you're taking offense to me menti(:)n ing a \dark guy.\ Give me a break For all of those people te1lk about it. Just dial 1000 Kay and we'll have a little chat. I '1nsure that I can tum your little sheltered preparatory in- flated egos around and have you thinking otherwise. I'm sick of the shallow and com- pletely self-righteous people here who think that everyone should conform to what they think is the right way to be. Give me a l>reak. If racism is such a big issue and you are so worried about it, then at meal time we weuldn 't have one side of West dedicated to fhe m i- norities and the rest allocated for the majority. Ifyou are all so ac- cepting, then show it instead of saying it. The problem is with people who talk the talk but some- how don't know how to walk the walk. If this isn't apparent, then these self-righteous people need a good dose of something obviously new to them--the truth. Until next time, send mail to box #1058.

Page 1-l • October 30, 1997 • Q:lp'.<.f.tmcltroil'nsis . Arts & Entertainment Rating System (how much to pay to see it) Full Price (4 Stars) Matinee Price (3 Stars) Rent It (2 Stars) Wait for Late Night TV ( l Star) I'd Rather have a ... (0 Stars) Popcorn (liz a star) The Devil's Advocate Starring: ArPacino Keanu Reeves Charlize Theron Craig T. Nelson Directed By: Taylor Hack ford Rating: Matinee Price A math teacher is on trial for molesting one ofhis students. As the girl tearfully describes the de~ tails of her torment, the defendant plays with himselfunderthetable. His lawyer sees this and is horri- fied, because he knows that his cli- ent is guilty of the very crime that he is defending. After requesting a recess, the lawyer pulls himself together. Through a series of ques- tions, the lawyetdiscredits the girl to the point that the jury acq.uits the defendant. lJJe lawyer's per- fect record remains unblemished. Thus begins the psychol.ogical thriller, Devil 's llrivocate. Kevin Lomax <Keanu Reeves). is a brilliant small-town defense at- torney who has never lost a case. He is brought to New York by the finn ofMilton, Chadwick, and Wa- ters to advise on jury selection. Succ.essfuJ in cho()sing ajury sym- pathetic to the cldendant, Lomax finds himself tempted by offers of a large salary, an .amazing Manhat- tan apartment, and women in allur- ing evening dres!les. These tempw tations succeed ;in seducing the young Lomax, anc:l he opts to re- main in the employment of the fim .. John Milton (Ai Pacino) is the firm' s senior partner and takes a quick liking to tile young Lomax. The abilities ofh is young protege are put to the test when Milton assigns him toa seemingly impos- sible case. His st:~ccess vaults him into a more favon1~le position with ''The newest attorney at ·the world's largest firJn has never lost a cas,e, but is ab~out to lose his soul. Evil has it'~ winning ways.'' his mentor, a :position that lands him the task of defe;nding Alexander Cu lien (Craig T. Nelson) in a triple homicide case. As he gets bogged down in the case, Lomax believes that there is more than meets the eye. Despite his family's warn irrgs, Lomax con- tinues to pur~ue the case. This causes him to lose sight of the one thing that truly matters in his life-.· the love ofhiswifl!. The movie starts quickly, by in- troducing us to a man who, when he is defending h.i<> clients, shows no signs of a comdence. As the movie progresses, this fact be- comes more apparent. The one thing that matters to Lomax is his unblemished rec()rd. He shrugs off the suggestion that everyone has to lose some- time, and is so self~absorbed that he can not see what is happening aroundhim. Lomax's vanity is built up until the climqx, where he must- confront his b~ggest sin. While it takes over two hours to reach this thrilling climax, it is well worth the wait Keanu Reeves gives a great per- formance as Kevin Lomax. His speech, on the other hand, leaves something to be desired. For the first half of the movie he possesses a believable southern accent. Strangely enough, he loses it half way through the movie and only rediscovers it in the,last few min~ utes. Nonetheless, this is argu- ably Reeve's best acting since his. rol.e in the 1992 horror film, Bram Stoker's Dracula. Veteran actor AI Pacino gives an (.!ward-winning performance as both John Mi-lton and Satan. He will defiantly give Brad Pitt (Seven Years In 'f'ibet) a run for his money when award nominations come out Milton rem indstheviewer of the calm and col'lected character of Michael Collione that Pacino played in The Godfather trilogy. Craig T. Nelson, from the televi- sion series Coach, plays the real estate tycoon Alexander Cullen, who has been charged with the triple homicide of his wife and t:wo children. The role of Mary Ann Lomax is filledby newcomerCharlizeTheron (2 Days in the Valley). She gives a convincing depiction of the woman who is fmced to deal with the pres~ sure of playing wife to the <\Spiring master o.fthe world. Cameo appearances a:re made by Don King and New York Senator. Alphonse D'Amato. Devil 's Advocate was Jirected byTaylor Hackford whose resume includes An Officer and A Gentle\ rnan, La Bamba, and Against All Odd~. Devil ;s Advocate is shot in a similar manner to Dolores Clairborne-. Hackford focuses primarily on developing the char- acters. The audience watches with hot~ ror as Mary Ann Lorna)(_ descends into bouts ·Of depression and hys- teria when she sees the demons for what they really ·are. AH in aU, this is a very good movie. It was a lotdifferent from what I had expected when we walked into the theater .. It is a cross between John Grisham's The Firm and the classic thriller The Exor- cist, without letting the cat out of the bag. I had only one real problem with the movie+.-the ending was a cop- out The movie could have ended five minutes earlier with the scene in the office, aJ:~d I would have fueen pertectly fine with it. l would have walked out ofthe theater knowing that this was the only way it cotdd have happened. It seems, however, that the final scene was inserted to give the au- dieAce a sense of closure. Any- one who has seen the movie will know what I am talking about. Professor Benjamin's Made In Italy Courtesy of The Visual Arts Department Photographers Martin Ben- jamin and Donna Fitzgerald will be exhibiting the photographs Made in ftaly at LuLu Gallery from November 3 through De~ . cember 2, 1997. An artists' re- ception is scheduled for Thurs· · day, November 6 from 5:30~- 7:30PM. Martin Benjamin and DonnaFitzgerald livedandtrav- eled in Italy for four months . ' from September ;l 995 through . inch prints in the show, and January l996afte:r having Spent photographs exhibited 'llPf'P·I time1here in 198~.-Martin Ben- ... made in Flotenee. Urbino, jamin is a· profe:~i$or 9f·at(~f~ · :Suo~o,Convento,'Venice, Pis~ . union Q)llege, wh~feh~l'eaenes·~::·,A.r~i~o~·, sl6na; u~t.ta'icitio, ........... · ... · ~ta:ph y t : ~li<f'' lion.ha.··· · L~~c~jtom~; Uid Sicily. The • '. •: ••. \ . ' • -- . • _;· \ ' \ ' . .• ·' ~ '. ,)j:.' '-' : ;· - :•: :-. '· ' • ' ~-- -. • ., • .t\i~~e•~auJ teaches· · . · ·· · · · · , black and white,pi.<:tures depict · :Ch<)Ol. .,.,., .... \\!--\· .. ...!·~· . '., . .. . . . . .... ,. .. -· . . . . . The Boneheads $4.00 Admission •rrhe Band Meet=::: Little Feat .. From Maine .. Roc.k_. Foil=: .. & Blues - C.o:mmande.- Cody & The Lo·st Pla:net Ainnen $5 .. 00 Admission ·Energy-Crazed Boogie-l.fiJ oogie & H allo~~t.een Patt-y:. Costume contest:s both nights IIIith a 27 11 T'IJ for the litlnnerl Happy Hour 4-7 PM ··college Seni·ors Only•• Appreciation Night ink Special With Senior I D I (Over 21 Jf Of Cour8e ·I) -.;.~ -.;.-. Call 381 .... 1111 ·fG.r aebu 311111il ll'e:JiE!ItV31till!llm 2:~ Un'Mn .. Stwee1: smenedaa,- .. N .Y. a ea:liel s III.IIJ'l.t s I d s II \' c t] \' s:l L :ll' tc;: lc lt-' lti fi IV h~ ~ s'( th \ fa li1 fa sh di Wi gr W' ' pe m: en of tlli 111( pr( by pa1 Du OUI eot on wa WO A11 ' fon of \Fr l r Col a ce:: ihg The SeV(; r An! Mal Sha Mo1 Salt abtc The Bad1 Ciar Tash .- Tt grou Barr Mall Fa youn CO I plain ated mOl\ I

\ . ' \ Arts & Entertainm~nt · · . · '<lfltl.' Qit,ntnroit.'~ts.is • October 3(),'1997 • l'~1ge ·15 ' • • • ' ~ J A Look at Seagull Senior Doug Schneid.er Michelle Jester: A Star by Kimberly Rollback A&EEditor Th~ Theater Department's pro~ duction of Anton Che:kov's, the Seagull, which I have been shame~ lessly promoting for the past few weeks, opened yesterday and wiH conHnue to run Wednesday through Saturday for the next two weeks. Playing a key role in this s:how is senior Dot~glas Sch·neider. Schneider's acting career at Union began fall term of his fresh ... man year when he jo.ined Moun- tebanks.; he performed a mono- logue from Assassins . ... '·•· . .,. ,_..,\'''u'.) lle use~ the same monologl,l.e fot lti$ Seagull auditkm. He got his first experience directing during wintertenn ofthatsame year; when h.e drrecteda scenefrmn This !sA· T'.est in a Mountebanks' Night of S<'enes. \I was very happy with. the performance, despite being forced to work with poor talent like Fred Ulrich.\ Spring term, Sc.hneider per- formed in his fi.rst department show, A servant of Two Masters, directed by William Finlay. He was cast as 4 ' Waiter #3.\ '\It was a great experience for a freshman to work with a cast of older, more ex- perienced actors. I only hope that my work this year has the same effect and provides the same kind of example for younger actors in this show.\ During fall term of his sopho- more year, Doug acted in the world premier of Cod Delivers directed by Wi.lliam Finlay. He played the part of a late-nightt&lk show host. During his scene he was in a room outside of the theater being vid~ eotaped live and then broadcast on stage on a large televisio.A. This was the first time that Schneider worked with his Seagull co-star, Arny Rilling. should have been shot, bttt I've gotten over it,.\ said Schneider of Ulrich. This production revital- ized the power of Mountebanks. ''I have to admjt that it was a11 in- credible show, and only Fred could have puHed it off.\ Schneider made his theatrical contributions tht. following term behind the scenes .. Serving as Mountebank's member-at-large, Doug revived the Mountebank's Alumni News Letter. He also orga- nized the Cabaret for the alumni perf0rmance. Schneider's junior year began with a term abroad in IsraeL 1 Ie did not participate in any theater while abmad. \I did see a show, but it was in Hebrew, so I didn't understand very much.\ Winter term of his junior year marked a highlight in h.i.s acting career. Doug was cast as Roy Cohn in a student production of Angels In America. This influential piece of modern theater was a tremen- dous undertaking for the students. Schneider's character was an espe- cially difficult one. \'I was chal~ lenged by the prospect of playing such an evil man. I did a' lot of re- sear.·h for this role. 1 found the perfect cross between AI Pacino and a sl.ick New York lawyer.\ great friendships.\ This brings us to the present, \I think that The Seagull is the best show that I've been involved in at Union .. We have an incredible cast and a tremendous script to work with.\ Schneider describes his act- .ing up to th·is point as \character acting.\ \1 have always played a secondary role, mainly bit parts. This is my first work as the lead- ing man.\ In the Seagull, Schneider play~ Treplev with:the sincerity and talent that has come from years of experience. He:keeps rehearsals light yet focused. Schneider intends to graduate this yeat with a B.A. in history, and currently working on his thesis. · h..isresearch, he is investigating the Jewish influence on Holly- . wood. After gr~duation, Schneider hopes to pursue a career in fi.lm. \I wanted to go law school, but I anged my mind and decided I really wanted to go to fi.lm schooL'' Douglas Schneider has been a tremendous contributotto the'arts at Union. \I love Mountebanks,\ he profes·ses. In reference to Ulrich's comment last week about musicals at Union, Schneider said, \I think if the student body wants a musical, l'd support it. Ac6ng is about pursuing personal goals and compromise. I don't think that a musical necessarily has to mean Grease; personally I'd like to see Fiddler On the Roof\ Comment- ing on another aspect of Mounte- banks, \I think that Mountebanks should change its name to \The f NeilSimon Players.\ They should do at least one Neil Simon play a term, or better ;et would be only Neil Simon plays.\ \I think that everyone should come and see The Seagull because .I get to kiss Amy Rilling,\ said Schneider jokingly. Come see The ,.-:.:.: ... l<ull October 29 to November Unseen By Many ~~----· ~,__- requested. to help make tht! sell- by Kim Rohback A&E Editor When we go to see a perfor- mance, we are often enthralled by the actors, dancers; and musicians. We may forget about the techni- . cal work that goes into each pro- duction. Who is checking the mi- cmphones, making sure that the blackouts are timed properly, and checking the costumes and props? Many times the most instrumen- . tal person in a production qm do ali 0f his or her work behind the · scenes. The star behind the scenes at Yulman Theater is senior Michelle Jester. The calm, cool, and col- lected mastermind is the genius behind the set of the upcoming play, The Seagull. Jester's career in the theater be- gan sprin:::; tenn her freshman year. Jester made a bold decision and auditioned forthe play A Servant · ofTwo Masters, directed by Will· iam Finlay. After her audition, Finlay asked Jester, \Do you do · any work backstageT Instead of · being heartbroken or offended, · Jester jumped at the oppm1unity to parti.:ipate. Jester found herselfin charge of props that year along with senior Brian Jaecker. Jester's job was to find aH of the objects on the laun- dry list of items handed to her at the end of each rehearsal, aU of which she sat through. This was her first exposure to the Theater Department. Before each performance, Jester and her assistants work to set the props for the actors and to change them after each scene, during in- . termission, and after the show. While this sounds easy enough, keeping track of 12 pairs of sun- glasses carelessly strewn about by a hurried gmup of thespians or out perfonnance a hit. U !rich com- mented, \She's amazing. She can find anything. She's like butter. She's mon.ey. She had no money, no budget, and managed to find every prop.\ One particular anecdote in~ v0lved a cart they needed for a dinnerscene. After weeks ofhunt~ ing for the perfect cart, Jester told Ulrich, \I had a dream about it. I know where it is. It's in Europe.\ That kind of dedication is not eas• ily found for this important task . During spring term, Jester again worked with Jaecker on props for the play Noises Off \We work re- ally well together. He stays calm. and I go crazy. Together we get things done.\ Winter tenn, Jester took on her largest role--she did the stage man- agement for Angels In America. '\It was great and very difficult. Working with Amelia (the direc- tor) was amazing. She made ma- jor changes just days before the show opened. J had to keep track of everything, and in the end the result was incredible.\ Michelle Jester is now taking on more responsibility than ever by becoming the stage management for The Seagull. Jester's job en- tails sitting through rehearsals and taking down the blocking for ac~ tors while the director works. Jester also writes down all of the line notes for the actors who miss a line. She follows the script in rehearsal and feeds actors their · lines. Jester also makes up there- hearsal schedule and makes per- sonal calls for actors who forget. Once the show goes into perfor- mance, the director hands over the show to the stage manager. The stage manager basically runs the show. Winter term, Schneider per- fanned in Fred Ulrich's production of Six Degrees of Separation. \Fred as a director, was a jerk and Schneider returned to the de- partment for William Finlay's pro- duction of Blood WeddinR. He played the father of the bride (played by Sandy Rodrigues '00) .. \It was a great opportunity to meet the younger actors and actresses at Union. l cemented some really I and November 5-8. See the Box Office at the Yulman or in the cam- pus center for more detaiJs. . chasing down an actor for the ~~--~~~~~--~-~~~-----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Hghterheorsheaccident~~pock- UniOD Colleg·e's Garnet Minstrelles: etedduringasceneismuchmore For this show, Jester has two hard-working freshmen as::.istant stage managers--Brandyn Hamilton and Rebecca Thyresson. \They're cooL They are freshmen who really want to get involved,\ says Jester. complex and nerve.racking than M • . F. • d h. w·· •th s· one might expect. ·· IXIDg . rten ·. S lp · · I ·· · . ong Jester'ssecondpropjobwasfor Jester says, \I have peace and my best friends in the theater.\ The entire cast of The Seagull thanks Michelle for her hard work and dedication. Come see her work as the crew presents The Seagull Oc- tober 29 through November I and November 5-8. by Maura Wittbold Staff Writer !he Garnet Minstrelles, Union College's only four part-women's a capella singing group, is look- ihg forward to another great year. The group consists of 15 women, seven of whom are seniors. !his group includes Jennifer, Angerosa (music. director); MaJJpreet Kalsi (super senior}, Shana Meyer (directar), Kelly Monahan, Amy RiHing,. Sara Saltsman ( presentfy on·term abroad), and Jessica Schneider. The younger members are Krissy Badman,. Kathy Bugden, Devon Ciampa, Sandy Rodrigues, and Tasha Hussey. Tile newe.st additions to the group are three freshmen--Stacy Barnard, Erin Fitzpatrick, and Matua Wittbold. Founded in 1986, this rather young group is looking to make a CD this year. Shana Meyer ex- plained the Minstrelles' plans, \We ate definitely going to try to raise money to put towards hlak ing our own CD. The process. should be K II M h d Sh the play Six Degrees of Separa- e . y · · ·on a ~n an · ana lion. This was a more difficult task done by spring.\ In the meantime, Meyer described the M.instrelles the Minstrelles are busily prepar- as \a group which has done a great · than the department productions, · as it was done with a greatly lim~ ing for their first performance of deal of growing throughout the · ited budget and a student director. the school year (with the newest past few years. There are seven se- members). · · th t.h · D Jester begged, lied, and stoleev- mors 111 ·. e group . IS year. ur- on' Th'ursday' . Oc· tobe.r 3.Q.th, the · 1 ~.. t c . h II erything that director Fred Ulrich , tng He pas a our years, we . ave a MinstreHes will be singing for the matured together.\ senior class at a \wineand cheese\ Since freshman year, the group This Week With A&E party. In No.vember, the hasdevelopedbothmusicallyand E·d ... l.tOr .L• ·.o·rl\· Green.e· .. Minstrel1~s wf!J be .performing at • personally. \We have tons of fun Chet's and at the Coffeehouse. together, cr~ating creat friendship ,. Look for posters ~nn~uncing andtnusic.\ .Reviews and Apologies ·exact dates; times apd ·lop~tiO.ns. T~e Minstrelles have created a You don't want to :1;11 iss ;;.hese welc:(>ming and friendly environ~ Congratulations to the cast and crew of The Seagull on an excep- ''ct.ite, furi, and sili'gle girls,\ as ment for their newest members. tional opening night, and good luck with the run of your show! .c!escril;>e~ by many ITlernbers. Rett~arsals consists of story-tell~ . Ate you a member of an. art or .music group on campus? Are you Despite a previO\IS histqry of ing, laughter, occasional dancing, doing something we should be writing about? Let us know! Drop us a ''bad bl.ood\ between the Dutch and of course, singing. The friend- line at the Cimcordy office and we promise to check it Ollt! Pipets and the Gamet Minstrelles,. ships are evident in the music of Do you want to write for our section? You wm get to hang out with the t~vo groups are in the process this enthusiastic and entertaining ·. us oit Sunday afternoons. Som~times we even bring snacks! Let us of working with each other. group. know! We always have plenty of articles to go around! Also, if the At the present, Kathy Sugden Be .sure to look for upcoming editors aren't busy writing) we can make sure names are spelled cor- of the Minstrelles and Jeremy Minstrelles performances, when rectly~ which brings me to my ne>tt point: we goofed last week! Lynch of the Pipers are working these 15 young women will bring To the cast of Uncommon Women, we apologize for the misspelling together on \Crash\ by The Dave back many of your old favorites · of names. Please do not take that oversight as a reflection of your Matthews Band. and introduce you to some new acting abilities or our respect for you as actors and clasSJnatesl And • The Pipers and Minstrelles are music as well. Overall, the mem- . please, don~t boycott our secticml hoping to have \Crash\ prepared bers describe the entire Garnet To Alex Beckers and Jessica Chappell, accept our heartfelt apolo-- · andready to perfonn by the be- Minstrelles experience here at · giesforinadvertentlyshunningyouinthereviewofACocktai/Party, ginning ofthe winter term. Union as \good c.lean fun!\ Your work was compeUing and should not be ignored! ,,

I 1 j ' i li l i I I I' I: I' l~ \- t . . P.igt· 16 • October 30, 1997 • wlp.'\ O:nnrorDil'ltSis . . . Advertisements HEALTH SERVICES Flu Vaccine Nove111ber 12, 1997 3-5 PM lN 1-JALE I-lOUSE no appointments necessary walk-itJS welcome! Buy .. SeD -Trade Compact Discs - Tapes .. DJ Mix Tapes Video Games ... Martial Arts Movies hnports- New & Used Records 377--8382 website: http://www .capital.net/cornicdcentrl · Open to all students, faculty· a11d· staff The vaccine will be adrninistercd by the Schenectady County Ileal th Department. A $1 Ofee will be charged. , · UNION COLLE<i£ Carter Dtut:lqmrent Cmter CDC Updates ••. Visit ()ur website at http: www.union.edu/career/cddroc.html for all the latest events. infonnation table will be set up in the Reamer Campus Center to discuss toptmttniues inlhe Marine Corp$ on Monday, No't'. 3 from ll·2pm. u ... ~.~..,..representatives at rhe COC from the following companies and speak with about career opportunities: Amerada Hess • Monday, Nov. 3 at 7pm Encotedl .. Tuesday, Nov. 4 at 7pm Bell Atlantic: • Wednesday, Nov. 5 at 6pm NDA • 'Thursday, Nov. 6 at 7pm General Dynamb ·Thursday, Nov. 6 at 8pm PROGRAM (To teach English in Japan) t'rotc~or Gilman will be showing slides ofhis experience with JET and -~\'U·k')\'\\·· the program on Wednesday, Nov. Sat 4pr.o in tbe CDC. representative from the law scbool will hold an information session on rhuirulsliV~ Nov. 6 at 7pm in tbe Hale House Dining Room to speak with · students .about tbe admissions process. RESUME REfERRAL DE~ LINES Hf'lltn\. October 31 -- Stone & Webster Engineering Corporation Novembet 7 ... AEON, Analysis Group Etonomics, and Prudential -·COME INTO MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! Schenectady- 1041 State Street- 382-5776 - 1 . ONEHOUn : . . . MOTOPHOTO .

HEALTH SERVlCES Flu Vaccine Novernber 12, 1997 3-.5 PM IN IIALE HOUSE no appointments neces~ary walk-ins welcome! Open to all stt1dents, faculty a11d staff The vaccine will be administered by the Schenectady County llealth Department. A $10 fe-e will be charged. Buy - Sell -Trade Compact Discs - Tapes - DJ Mix Tapes Video Games - Martial Arts Movies Imports - New & Used Records 377-8382 website: http://www .capital.net/comlcdcentrl \m··. ~ I toomua. CDC Updates Career DevelqJmmt Center ••• Visit our website at http: www.union.edw'career/cdc/cdc..html for all the latest events. An infonnation table will be set up in the Reamer Campus Center to discuss opportunities in the Marine Corps on Monday, Nov. 3 from 11·2pm. INFORMATION SESSIONS Meet representatives at the CDC from the following companies and speak with them about career opportunities: Amerada Hess · Mooday, Nov. 3 at 7pm Encotech • Tuesday, Nov. 4 at 7pm Bell Atlantic • Wednesday, Nov. 5 at 6pm NDA - Thursday, Nov. 6 at 7pm General Dynamics ·Thursday, Nov. 6 at 8pm I ET PROGRAM (To teach Englisll in Japan) Professor Gilman will be showing slides of bis experience with JET and discussing !be program on Wednesday, Nov. 5 at 4pm in the CDC. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL A representative from the law school will bold an information session on Thursday, Nov. 6 at 7pm in the Hale H()use Dining Room to speak with students about the admissions process. RESUME REFERRAL DEADLINES Friday. October 31 --Stone & Webster Engineeri~ Corporation Friday, November 7 -· AEON, Analysw Group Ecoo(Jmics, and Prudential COME INTO MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! Schenectady - 1041 State Street - 382-5776 · .··. · · ·. · .· · ··. · · oi.Js·Houn· ·.· ·.. . - · · · ;. . . . ... -·. . . · .-. MDTOPHO~O· · ... • I c , • 1 f - l ' , •

I Sports . {[J!~' \£t,ncnroit'tt'5i5 • Octohcr 30,1997 • Pagl' 17. Sep1e:niler 14(Invitaiion.d) Oclobe'r 29 (P!.A !OFF) Qctober22 Hartwicl4. Lostb B~IX)l'l, 15-4,15-2,15-3 BEAT Hilbert.l5-4, 12-15, 5-15, 1.5-6, 1:7-15 Lo,tb NYU, 15-~,15-3, 16-14 f~;mt,r-t:%~r;;r.~~~-t~fV{?.iT-?:zv;r~~Jt7?;:;r~~ *'~~S~~~~,!~~:-~l\:~~-~~:~~~ S:.~~~~~)-- · ···, , · - - ···--· ., .. , $epteiiier·J.; · .·-- · . .u~u.o.~.,tt .. :.-: ...... -----···~~···-·- .. -·.S.t.-ROie .. l..· ... ~-.·.P··--·~·~v. Vi:mr9 Hartwick 1 ' : ~ • ' • > • , ••. • s.: _- •• ::~·t~..:~ ;~..'J> N ....,~·Jl,-,, . .'~;, ... :., ~;,. ~~\\~-.c~ Or.eor~ta.O -~ WOMEN'S & MEN'S CROSS CWNTRY ,·'·\'~. ,-.--., • ......, •. ,._ ......... • ... · ... ·.·~-~~>--_,,--· .• , •. ,., ,.,. __ \':- -.~- -,\/. --~---~~--\.... '· ' . <\ · · ·· · · -' .-- · · · · - -· ·>' -' '· '. -· lliltw!f:ai'll.ilidid8~ tTaon 44 .\. . '' :lf~icll:~.l!~31_ ' :' :\.'vf(i~;H~~.-tht.ie:n41 . . . -~ J.lv.!Yiir.tlt.3! ... · J.tl1io:u4tl . Me:n: 13 of 19- 411 poiflt:!' (\A\ race) October25 Men: 9th of9with216 .pcatis Women: 8th o£8 with 198 points ~-)OC\';''\\\'\;fl'\:'>\l'\~'1';''1\~~··\\;'A'~'/l'~~-_t~\'J<'* .... ''7'\\'~ ... ,~,.,>~~-·->-'~\\'''r~o< '• ,c• • - • .· . _., -~- Nit~tti-*t~1L _ ...•. - ............ -~·'-······-~···'-'--''Akiii·H~ht.IJ~!).~--Ii4;!l\h ~~<;.Lu.:-~tc···\\':t.~-·X-·>.-i.J Nowmber 15 NCAA REGIONAL MEET at Sara.t\'a. State Park, 12:00 Congratultttions To All Of Our Athletes! Hockey T~am Nearly Coll~cts Opening Victory ... Continued From Page 20 Stadey went to the penalty box for high sticking at Union got th.e first and only power play goal of the night. As the Dutchmen set up for · a shot in the F:riars zone, Pugen sent a pass to White who caught Ballard off guard and the Dutch- men were back up by o-ne. Al- though Union hoeld onto this lead In the fourth quarter, the Bears won the field position game as the ball never saw Coast Guard terriM tory after the ten-minute mark as the Dutchmen could not muster a late first down. With 6:56 left. Attanasio roped in !tis third illter- ception at the Unicn 19 to secure the Dutchmen's one-possession lead. Coast Guarcl's next posses- sion ended in a pcunt with 3:58 reM mammg. Freshman Devon Wimberly took Attanasio's lead by intercepting Warren's next pass with 2:21 left. The Dutchmen were still unable to run out the dock after an incomp-letion until nearly the end of the period, FC' s first line was able to trip up Union once more. Omicioli sent a pass deep- into the Dutchmen zone which was quickly pioked up by Cameron and sent to Pisani who sll()t it past Koenig. Both teams looked tired head- ing into overtime, yet it was the stopped the clock. The Bears had one final oppor· tllnity with 1:27 remaining to tie tile game. They were ableto drive !<> the 21-yard line when Dan Warren'spass to Tom Wallin was .intercepted at the last second by jt111ior Jim Rozakis. Ro.zakis said, \l saw the play all the way.\ The team's fifth Interception secured . the 14-6 Union victory. Audino blamed a switch in dis- cipline from last season forthe vic- tory. \I'm veryproudoftheteam~ They were the more disciplined of tl1e two teams.\ It was a far cry from last se-ason~ s game as last Dutchmen who controlled first. Szucs had an excellent opportUnity to win it for the Dutchmen, but Ballard would not bend and he was able to clear it back into the neu- tral zone. Soon after, the Friars capitalized on a Dutchmen line cllange and sent the pick to Slteppard who shot it past Koenig year Coast Guard played nearly error-free football. Dutchmen Honors Attanasio's three interceptions gained him three honors: UCAA Defensive Player of the Week, Upstate New York Defensive Player of the Week, and ECAC Defensive Player of the Week. Attanasio also performed well in his kick-return role as senior Ryan Smith joined him in his duties. Attanasio said, \I felt more com- fortable with Ryan back with me because I didn't have to cover the entire field on my own.\ Lat¢lla,. with his 40 _c;mies and for the winning goal. Although the Dutchmen came up just short, they were able to play a strong game against Providence, which ended a fourth year in Hockey East. This year's freshmen class has a large void to fill for the Dutchmen and already they are demonstrating their ability to meet fourth 1 00-yard rushing perfor- mance of the season, gained UCAA Offensive Player of the Week honors. Punter Brian Slekes also qualified for a position on the UCAA Honor Roll as his ten punts (averaging 34.4 yards pet punt) helped keep the Bears' AI Thomp- son from getting deep into Union territory. Back In the Poll The Dutchmen learned Monday afternoon that their playoffhopes, though slim, are still alive. By re- turning to the \Others Receiving Votes\ portion of the poll, the • Dutchmen are within reach of the the challenge. This weekend the Dutchmen travel to Massachusetts to face Merrimack College and University of Massachusetts at Lowell. The Dutchmen do not begin playing their ECAC opponents until the following weekend at home. top six. If they are in the top four by the end of the season, they will qualify for the NCAA ?layoffs. Several teams in the East Region Poll must face each other. This Saturday, the Dutchmen have another tough challenge at horne against one-loss Hartwick. Hartwick's only loss came against RPI last weekend, 25-24. Hartwick has a brutal passing game as senior quarterback Matt Deily has passed for 23 touch- downs and just four interceptions. Game time is Saturday after- noon·at 1:OOPM on Frank Bailey Field.

I Sports . . · : . . · · . · . ' . illl~dl!onrM(!il'llsis • ()cto.bcr· 3_0, 1997 • Pngt; 17 · . ' \ . Union College Fall Sport Results- Records As Of October 28, 1997 October25 lJNION 14 CoastGua!d 6 NovemberS ALBANY, 1:00 ~- ~<:-~-~ -~N~~u-~: :;·_ . .:-~ ~/ · .r ... _ ... ~~--~:;~>:~~~:~~~:;:·~.~~~;~~~a~~i~~~;-~:~<~,~~~·~;-~;·-~~'~·~~::;::~~;~~:~~~~ ~eptenber30 . S41Pie~~ 13' (lmi.M,~ S epterrber 14 (Invita:lioml) ·\ .s•*~~bt:h<:ui<oT1 · • UNION\ 3 '-,, -~ Q .... ~ f-.. f ' -. ' __ lj,\iqjt: l~.v- :,·_:;, -·:<-<< < ,-,.--~:~-- .. Ge:neseol \' <· <~:><~~~i' '.'·~!- ': '; .. '. '<\\'·•'' ., Middlebut;r de f. Union. 15-5, 15-10, 15-6 . :·: _ .: ::': >-lilfiON.det~H.~e. t$.7.lS..l.Z.l6-l4 Septeniler 28 (UCAA) Hobut3 · · ' · · · · s~:Pt;;~~2;.( ·· · · · ~ ·: ·' umoira:> Seplenber30 Williuns 6 d'l-b.lll >> ... _ ~- >i lhuon I . V~s~O U:rtionO Ocb:lb er 1 Oneonta de£ U:nlo1:1, 15-5, 15-3, 15-9 .·•' .• ..<. • •• '> '\'<·\ UC.U UNJQ~dtf. HUfliltm:t. t4-iO.ll·lS.l.S-l3,18-10. 1.5-12 · , . T~m · , · , , = ·-:g,JON t~£ t;~ft.t4·i6' '17·1~'15-~ lS-9 ·, · .• ~·~aW&u. · '-'-\ ':: ?,·:·s~~der .. uuiol!,i~.ls-6, I>7 . · October 14 Oc:tober4 (UCAA) Oetob,er8 October 14 <kll:ib\1\:t 17 (UCA.A) October 18 (UCAA) (OT) UNION 2 S Jcidmon! 0 U'tiea 1 lD'l'lionO ··· · . .;·~ ··· &~~ri7· ·: Hartwick def. U:nio:n, 15-IIJ, 14-16, 15-8, 15-1 , , s'~ . . , · , ·->: ., .. i:~st·~ Utk-... 1S-i0, 11-lS. 15-9 ·.: · ;O<)IO'b~r:2i·::··.~/ October28 ·· ·a~~lni~Y· .:< · S~:t>~llli~r i:l (lttvit.t.i.otW) . · S epte nb er 14 (Invitational) :.$ep1irrrb~t~ · · Septe nber 23{UCAA) S:&ptenboer 27 S eptenber 29 ()c1~~:ib~ 3 (UCAA) Oc!oober 4 (UCAA) (OT) Oeloh:SI Odo\ber ll (UCAA) ~ctoberl4 · Oclo\bo er 1 i (UCAA) (OT) O<:t!l'ber 18(UCAA) October 21 Oc'b:lbe:r25 Octobel' 29 (PLAYOFF) S(lpileldl<!r 12 (T,l'C.AA) Septeldler 13 (UCAA) Septeu:i>er 17(UC.il.il.) :Sepm nil el' 20 $epil!:~et2.S Seplelt'ber 2'/(UCAA) Stp~:ll'ber 30 October 3 Oc:tober1 October IO(UCAA) O~tohr'Il (U'CAA) October 15 Oclo\etl:S Odober22 . -: mitoli 3 • >- . , RIT I · ~:si.Law~oo-~ · YNION 1 · · ., , , ·,·:.ll'l:lion 1 CluksonO MIDDLEBURY, 2:00 .• , ~~ 1\--·' ~ ,;- 'it..,_',._,., .~ ~ ,.~ .. <- ;, ~ ·' ~ <: .,. ~- ~ <' ,. ~ >' \- ,;:_ .:~:1':)iJ~~N::vswoil'cri;l'iot(' , · ·. · · WOMEN'S SOCCER (10-4-113-2-1 UCAA) \· ·· .. ''ul4tolit~ ·<.\~-'\ ·· .,_ · · , s<ntu.mvtnn:»uo UNION 2 Westem New E~1utd 0 .. -UNlONI ·. . Omontt() UNION 4 Hamilton 0 V~~S.'!i.rl UNION lCI UNION't Skidmore:2 UNION':l. WilliamS mitlt 2 Willi4l'll$ J Union 1 · Union2 UTICAO RU~S~elaer 0 Union 1 Ii<atvlckO UnionO Ul\iQnO St. Law :rene 1 UNION 5 Cla:k1ol:ll UNION 4 Russell Sage 1 UNION 4. NEW\P.AI.TZD Platts: bu:rgb, 2:00 G alris Field FIELD HOCKEY (o-812-4UCAA) (SeasonCanduded) Re:w~eJaez2 Skidrnore3 t.TNION 4 UNION 3 ~d4 UNION 2 Mid;d~b;;ry$ S pringf'leld 5 tlN!ON 2 Rochester3 Williwsllliill4 UNION .5 Ul!TONS.•,_,· · Ha:rtwick 4 lT\lnionO Urtion1 Hamih:ml Mt. Holyoke 0 U1:lion l Oi:t.e.o•O UnionO U~:nl) Vassaz 1 .,o:()s~~:2 Union! ·.Congratulations To All Of Our A.thletes/ ' ' . ~ . -· Oefober25 Octlb~2a October31 · lofcvenbo for 1 StJt!elrile~: 12 Se:pteldler 13 Sepiedler 17 Selllerriler 19 SeE>ieniler 20 Septe.nile:r 27 Oct®~r 1 Ocmber4 Oatxiber '1 October 12 October 15 Sepiewer 13 S epturilo er 20 October 11 Ocblber25 No~e~;S Novemberl5 , ~~IUII:V: . · · , .. · ,:,:}~:) ,: · DIAT·~~1UI.l~H. i.S·~. l.S..7 . ·· · '-~ >\.'< '- · , • .•. ;.;:I;o;t.~·a~wk~ i.s~IS, 6.ls,,4-l5,1o.Is Bi.nelwuton InYy . BEATlW.f:1ens*.tS-12,.l.S.9, 15-SI Lost to Bi:tlgha:mto:n, 15-4, 15-2, 15-3 BEAT Hilbert, 154,12-15,5-15, 15-6, 17-15 Lost to NYU, 15-3,!5-3, 16-14 Lost to Hunter, 14-16, 15-5, 15-9, 15-4 Lost to New Pallz, 15-2, 15-6, 15-7 atAlb•y, 1:00 at~a!nYy, 6:00 at El2l1ir<t. llt-yy, 9:00 WOMEN'S TENNIS (7-5)(Seascm. Concluded) Ul;li()N6 St. Ron 1 U:nlonO Union2 ClarksonO U:nlon4 Hartwick 1 u~o OneontaO Vassa%9 Hallliltou 5 UNION9 St. Lawm:n:e 5 UN[ON8 SlddbU)reSl UNION9 UNION? RPI2 UC AA Tournament@! William S n'lith (U :nion :lil1ished fifth) Hllmiltol'l7 Ullion2 UNION e R.PI 1 UNION 8 WilliamS :tui.1h l RUSSELL SAGE, cane. Weather WOMEN'S & MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY Williams InYy UCAA Clwnpitl1'1Sbi.Pl' at Hobart Melt: Ham.ilfon 18, U l'lio:n 44 Hmwick26, Umon31 Women: Hanrilm20, Umn41 Hutw:iek 2l. Umon40 Men: 13of19- 411 points (\A\ race) Woml!n: 3:rd ~ ('13\ taee). l3pomts Men: Fourth of6 with 128 poUlts Women; F\iflhr:d'7 iea.tt15- 111 poizrll Men: 11 of 18wlth30l poults Women: 11 af20 reams - 311 JO:ints Mu: 7tho:f'l6with236J>Oinl:9 Womell:71h.ofl7wi1h191 ~ Men: 9thof9with 216 points; Wome:tt 8th of8 with 198 points Stlfa Mfit u llNG'k:Pott, 12:00 NCAA REGIONAL MEET at Saratoga State Park, 12:00 Hockey Team Nearly ~~llects Opening Victory ... Continued From Page 20 Stadey went to the penalty box for high sticking at Union got the first and only power play goal of the night As the Dutchmen set up for a shot in the Friars zone, Pugen sent a pass to White who caught Ballard off guard and the Dutch- men were back up by one. Al- though Union held onto this lead until nearly the end of the period, PC's first line was able to trip up Union once more. Omicioli sent a pass deep into the Dutchmen zone which was quickly picked up by Cameron and sent to Pisani who shot it past Koenig, Both teams looked tired head- ing into overtime, yet it was the Dutchmen who controlled first. Szucs had an excellent opportunity to win it for the Dutchmen, but Ballard would not bend and he was able to clear it back into the neu- tral zone. Soon after, the Friars capitalized on a Dutchmen I ine change and sent the pick to Sheppard who shot it past Koenig for the winning goaL Although the Dutchmen came up just short, they were able to play a strong game against Providence, which ended a fourth year in Hockey East. This year's freshmen class has a large void to fill for the Dutchmen and already they are demonstrating their ability to meet the challenge. This weekend the Dutchmen travel to Massachusetts to face Merrimack College and University of Massachusetts at Lowell. The Dutchmen do not begin playing their ECAC opponents until the following weekend at home. Football Upsets Coast Guard To Regain Poll Slot ... Continued From Page 20 In the fourth quarter, the Bears won the field position game as the ball never saw Coast Guard terri- tory after the ten-minute mark as the Dutchmen could not muster a late first down. With 6:56 left, Attanasio roped in his third inter- ception at the Union 19 to secure the Dutchmen's one-possession lead. Coast Guard's next posses- sion ended in a punt with 3:58 re- m am mg. Freshman Devon Wimberly took Attanasio's lead by intercepti11g Warren's next pass with 2:21 left. The Dutchmen were still unable to run out the clock after an incompletion stopped the clock. The Bears had one final oppor- tunity with I :27 remaining to tie the game. They were able to drive to the 21-:yard line when Dan Warren's pass to Tom Wallin was intercepted at the last second by junior Jim Rozakis. Rozakis said, \1 saw the play all the way.\ The team's fifth interception secured the 14-6 U11ion victory. Audino blamed a switch in dis- cipline from last season for the vic- tory. \I'm very proud ofthe team. They were tile more disciplined of the two teams.\ It was a far cry from last season's game as last year Coast Guard played nearly error-free football. Dutchmen Honors Attanasio's three interceptions gained him three honors: UCAA Defensive Player of the Week, Upstate New York Defensive Player of the Week, and ECAC Defensive Player of the Week. Attanasio also perfonned well in his kick-return role as senior Ryan Smith joined him in his duties. Attanasio said, \I felt more com- fortable with Ryan back with me because I didn't have to cover the entire field on my own.\ Latella, with his 40 carries and fourth 1 00-yard rushing perfor- mance of the season, gained UCAA Offensive Player of the Week honors. Punter Brian Slekes also qualified for a position on the UCAA Honor Roll as his ten punts (averaging 34.4 yards per punt) helped keep the Bears' A I Thomp- son from getting deep into Union territory. Back In the Poll The Dutchmen learned Monday afternoon that their playoff hopes, though slim, are still alive. By re- turning to the \Others Receiving Votes\ portion of the poll, the Dutchmen are within reach of the top six. If they are in the top four by the end of the season, they will qualify for the NCAA Playoffs. Several teams in the East Region Poll must face each other. This Saturday, the Dutchmen have another tough challenge at home against one-loss Hartwick. Hmiwick \s only loss came against RPI last weekend, 25-24 Hartwick has a brutal passing game as senior quarterback Matt Deily has passed for 23 touch- downs and just four interceptions Game time is Saturday after- noon at I :OOPM on Frank Bailey Field.

I' age IS •· October 30, 1997 • <Ll1r Qiouwdtil-Ilsis . I Sports X-C Concludes Regular Season at Saratoga Slahich and Goveia Crack 20 Minutes Kunselm(ln and Goldberg Lead Men The Union women's cross-country team competed this past Saturday at Saratoga Spa State Park in the inaugural RPilnvitational. Competing in rainy, 40 degree weather, the women raced SK (3.1 miles) through the varied terrain course. Leading the team impressively once again was standout freshman Amy Slabich and dose behind. the second member·ofthe fe- male dynamic duo for Union, was junior Jessica Goveia. Slabich ran an aggressive race again in this the final regular season meet for the female harriers. Slabich fin- ished strongly .in a 24'h place 19:45, a sea- sooal best. This was the fastest time for a lJ nion runner in several years. Close behind was the X-'C novice Goveia, wllo ran like a three-year veteran, running a fifteen second personal best in 19:54, for 28' 11 place. Goveia commented afterwards that. ··t cannot believe.l broke 20 ... 1 did not even think I was dose, Amy and I had fun running together I was right with her until we came out of the woods ... we have a lot of fun running with each other, it keeps us going.\ Head coach Charlie Casey com- mented that, \'It is good that Amy and Jess were running close together, It only makes them faster.\ Next in for Union was senior captain Kelly Jamieson who finished 51 ' 1 in 20:42. by Jason .Everett Staff Writer Close behind was junior Katie MacDoweU The Union men competed in the RPJ In- who ran perhaps her best race at Union fin- vitational th.is past weekend at Saratoga ishing 54 1 h. MacDowell ran an outstanding State Park. The men raced 8K (5 miles) race finishing in a seasonal best 20:58. overthe saturated course. The men finished The last scorer for the women was junior . ninth out of n teams (216 points}, falling Charity MacManaman who once again ran four points shy of Hartwick (212), and ilar• a solid race finishing6 Js• in 21 :27, in a per- . row ly. edging rival co.Jlege Vassar (226 senar best. Rounding out the top seven for points). the women was Melissa Magner and Allison Leading the Ciolino who finished 61 •• and 64th respec-. . way again for the tively in 21:47 and 22:05. Just off the pace . men this week was sophomore Irene Kan, 69 1 h in 22:08. . was senior captain The women finished s•h out of8 complete . Dave Kunse·Jman. teams with 198 points. Binghamton was 7' 11 Although he did witll 14 7 points. Casey commented that, · not crack 27 min:-· · \We had an outstanding number of seasonal utes for the sec. bests as weH as personal bests overall.\ · ond time irt recent Casey pointed out that Mac Dewell ran a 27 . · days, Kunselman · second personal best as well as Magner hav- . still ran an out- ing a one minute personal best. Also run• · stand~ng race in a ning bests were Irene Kan and Jen Schwartz .. tough field, fin· Casey said that he was .not surprised where . ish i ng JJ•h in the women finished as a team considerir)g · 27:0.1. · Head Coach Charlie Casey com- that ''team for team, this was probably the me.nted that \Dave's time was fine [despite toughest fie kl we will face.\ being 21 seconds slower than last week]. The remaining women finishers are as He will be well under 27 ina few weeks [in follows: 76. Emily Morse 23:0.6; 82. Molly Regionals at Saratoga].\ Hood 24: 10; 83. A leksandr;;t Podgorny . Next in for the men was senior Jay 24:29; 84. Jen Schwartz 24:47; 89. Aimee . Goldberg who r:an a petsonal best on the Marko 26:48; and 91. Jen Roberts 28:41. . course by seven seconds ( 1995 Capital Dis- tricts} to finish 21 51 in 27:33, passing more 2ndAitnual apital Skate CI;Jssic · vs. Don't miss the Capital Reg.ion's best rivalry when Rensselaer faces-off against Union in the 2nd Annual Capital Skate Classic ... ' ., f.¥- i- -t(; .. ,;_. '· ·:::· ... .$.. _J :.v '. ' ·.• .-\'· ,\\;i>. v • j Tickets on Sale Now at the Achilles Rink Box Office Adults: $12.00 - U.C. Students: $7.00 Tlckats can be purcha~ed at: Pepsi Arena Box Office or ~arlial proceeds to benefit than twenty people in the last two miles .. Third i.n fQr th.e male harriers was junior Hugh Meyer wh.o finished 61 st in 28:42. Next in was sephomore Kenny Scott who finished 79th in 29:42, Rounding out the top seven for the men w~re Jon Niem~n, 88th in 30: 18, Joe dian, 104-ih in 30.:25 and Terry Chang, 99•h in .31:34. The rest of the men's results are :a~ foHows: 1 04, Cor~y Mathis · 34:43; l 08. Siraj · Bhaclsavla 37:58; .1 09. A lex Militello 40:29; and 1 09. Evan • Jahn (time un- available). X•CNotes - Look for the prMile on three sport star Kelly Jamieson in next week's Concordiensis. -The men and women's teams return to competition on Nevember 8 for the State me.et at Brockport. This is followed by the NCAA Division Ill Regionals at Saratoga Springs on November 1:5. The Regionals conclude their season. tt ti- Ol b1 Sf C<

Sports - U:lft' U:.lmrnri.'liwsios • October 30,1997 • Pa~l' 19 68,000 people were at the game the nintll with a single to center, and were going crazy for the en- and after Mesa struck out Bonill~t; tire game whicll began at around catcherCilarles Johnson singled to 7:30pm and did not conclude un~ _ right. AI<Ou went to third on tlie til past midnight. Wright had a one hit to set.up.a first and third sitlla- hitter through six innings, and he tion with only one out and Cra:i~ had been staked to an early 2-0 Counsell coming to bat. Counsell lead.. hit a. deep :sacrifice fly to right fie:lll whith allowed the Marlins to load the bases. After Devon White failedto win the game in his at bat, the 21 year oldRenteria hit Charles Nagy first pitch into center field to win the game a:nd the World Series for the Florida Marlins. within a goal with about 20 min .. utes remaining in the game. There was a steady rain that fell during the entire game which was at- tended by a staggering 57,431 people. Without a doubt, D.C. United is the best team in Major League Soccer. The Florida Marlins capped off a..tremendous seasan by winning the World Seri.esthis past Sundaty night in amemora;ble game seven. Florida won the game-in the bot~ torn of the eleventh on a hit up the middle by shortstop Edgar Renteria that plated Craig Ct;nmsell 'from third. The Indians forced a. game seven by winning game six at Pro Player park thanks to the brHliant pitching performance again of starter Chad Ogea. He defeated the Marlins. ace, Kevin Brown, for: the second time in th,is World Series. The game seven starters were for Florida le:fthander AI Leiter and for Cleveland rookie sensation Jaret Wright. Wellover Leiter did not pitch 'badly him~ and Alout:agged up and scored tfl~ The D.C. Unitedteam won their self either only gi:ving up those two tying run\VIlich ~· ent the game in1oo ·second MLS title ().Ver the Colo- rUll~ .inthe.fh,ird inning·on a hit by ex~ra inriimgs. .r:td() Rapids i~l this past Sunday seeondbaseman,Tof1y Fernandez. Neither team amountedmuch()f ·at RFK stadium. D.C. withstood Bobby Bonilla brought the. Mar- a threat in tile tenth inning, but in a late surge by the Rapids to suc- Hns within one ()fl .a 'monster solp the eleventll, Florida loaded the rcessfully defend their MLS cham~ homerun in the seventh inning. bases wi11l.o11ly out. The big rno· pi<mship. Jaime Moreno and Tony :F'Iorida tied the .game Up and sent mentum sVt~ihg in the eleventh oc· Sanneh scored for D.C. to give · itto extra:irthings in th.e bottom of - curred '\Vilen second baseman them a 2~0 lead midway through Wayne Gretzky had two assists in the New York Rangers' 3-3 tie with the Mighty Ducks of Ana- heim, giving him I ,851 and sur~ passing the point total of the NHL's No.2 career score, Gordie Howe. · the n+o~h off c·loser Jose Mesa. Tony Fern<tndez did not get his the second. half. It is just another milestone in a long line for the greatest player ever to lace . the skates. .Moises Alouled offthe bottom of . glove down on a lazy ground ba.U. Adrian Paz \' U''U\\ .. Union Crew Has Strong Finish- . . To First Varsity Fall Season By Neha Shah & Nick Papanickolas Staff Writers Saturday morning October 25th started ou,t cold and rainy on Saratoga Lake. The men and women's open 4+ be&an the day of races at the a,nnuaJ Head of the Fish Regatta 1n Saratoga.· This year marked the largest turn out for the regatta, which has been grow~ ing in size and notoriety ~very · year. The competition ·include~ 250 marerboats this year thaA last year. Dt:fe · · to th l$ there was height-· ened ex- forward to· racing against unfamil· i a schools. Naemmah Tan, K:atie Ott, Ken'ley Smith, Molly Shaner, Kelly Houle, Tara Noyes, and Melissa Sullivan, stunned th.eir opposition, espe· cially William Smith who have been known to walk over all of their competitors. Rower Naemmah Tan stated, \W.e showed the· other varsity crews that even though this is Un.icin's first ·year with varsiiystatus~ [Union].i~ a force to be reckoned With.\ Some·of the :Other schb.ols th~t Union - \.A\ bea.t incJudedT Skioni'Ore; Williams, UVI\.1, · . . ' theh; time 11gaiost RPI waf!46sec- · onds closer than the race at the Head of tile Mohawk. The \B\ boat putfortl1 a good effort as wel!,- beating Sk..idmore and Hobart's . \B'' boats. The Novice crews, beth men and womell.,,(md impressive show~ ~il]gs ·for tl1eir Becmtd race of the -,season. \'~He: men's novice open. 4+ rac~c;f wit]l- a lot of heart, fin- ishing41r a.head of the Merchant . Marj.nes, Albany; Harn.ilt<'>n, UVM, and Canisius. 'The novice ... , ... ' ] d 5 1 h ft. ~grntt~·-:P. a.~e . 1 a er a very strong row, ~.. which.was ..&t;~ hindered drastically by. equ:ip- mentpro,b-· lems, that . almost cost . . them the · ·entire race. . · · ·.· Although, · \\\'·\'\\:\\\'' they stiJI were able to beat· ·Bowdein, s t Despite the little Lawrence, Middlebury; Union Women's c. rew after a su.cc.· essfu.l rt~.ce· tastweekend. (Steve E. ichfeli!/TC) practice -~-~,_~,..._.....:,- _ _:_---\-'._\-'.-~~-------;\'-~----~-·and A 1- · time together and the· wrong rig• Vassar, Smith'1 and Matist The bany. Fox·:u· ~~ Free Food- ....... .. 1) Rowan (New Jersey) 6-0 2) Cortland· (New York) 6-1 3) Ithaca (New York) 6-1 4) Plymo~th. State (Mass.) 6-1 ·5) King's Point (New York) 6-1 6) College of New Jersey 5-1 gers (due to a mix-up on land), the · women's -,,B\-boat was also abl'e Atthe end oftheday, during the open womeh's 4+ QVercame these toheatcompetitorssuchas Russell . awards ceremony, the varsity adversities to have a strong show-: Sage· and .Colgate. · wome.n 's crew was presented with ing, placing 13th out of 29 boats. · As ;tlie wea_ther: began to im- the traditional fish head and each The four was able to fend.Off ou·r . prove, the rhen's· ope1,1· 8s· fa~;:ed · 111ember .re.·ceiv~d a winning traditional rivals: RLT) :W'illia;v large challenges in:.thek race. · inedal. · ·The: t:eam showed their Smith, Smith, Buwdoin 1 . They were col1ftorited by 'power-· . spiritat tHe; e:nd of the regatta, the Middlebury,. Franklin. Pi¢r~e; and - .. ho~ses s~:~ch :as Wi1Iiams {who won· .. last r:a~e of:1;h~ fall season by dane- even Notte Dame: · TQ:e open . the Head~ofCI'Iarles~lqh:~aqe), and .:·i_ng to:t~e retsatta b<!nd, who w~s men's 4-f also fared Well finishing---. <f)'<wtr:rt.outh ;:tJway$ ·.a~sfrcm:g. Ivy:-~ ·)5(ayin,g:;J~6:b Qylan among other .n'*.hers Receivino Votes ~. .. list. ed alfJh .. a. betic. alb'~: I4 1 hcmtof28asthey·:were able to . :Le.ague.conteria.er. TI'ie.men's\A\ hii~j a;,S'theyl<raded the trailer for L¥· l!!t ~.· r o.11 hoi doff a very strong Ottawa crew · boath>se to the ch~m·~n¥~, by ha:v- · - ttre tn:k ho!ll.e· • Ov~rall, both the · Brf!~kport State (NY), Buffalo State (NY), for most of the race '\vhHe also ing what so.me-:or the ·athtetes 'Women anchn.en's crews conti~- Coast Guard (CT), Montclair State (NJ), passing two boats. . .·: . ca(ted_ t~eir:bestro~l/o.fthe:s~ason. :Ued to, impte'Ss upo~ others · . . It was the varsity womeh stole. :_;1Jie \A tlhishedinl4th:place. comm~irneni 10 achieving greater . Rensselaer (NY), and Union (NY) the show, however, by plowing · only four seconds behlrid rivalRPf ~.-success. ·The11ex:tstep fort~e team lilt end-oF season} the top lour in each. region go to playoffs.) through their competitors<tb not _ . and ahe~d- of cre~s::-stic:l) as Af., i; to train h~r(throughout winter ifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil only finish first in the race'; but als(j ' ~a~y,·BUffato~ SjngharQj~n;~and, trai)lillg·in ~rder to be stronger for S..'.?'T'Tdi. • . ;:Jf break the course reccitd by thirty S~ugat1-tck;a strong club froth. CT,,.'. the sPring. Npw that Union Crew ~..Y V 1.ng:. \' seconds! The boat, comprised of. This' raec;.'~h~wed the n~en;th_~t has .. Gatightthe attention ofnuiny, n b Skydi . ng· coxswain Cori Kautz,:J en .~rady; . , their' hard: :Weir~ had.paid .off sine~ . the tropes are h for the spring. ~JaneS. ur g . . . Vl. . 'l1 Years In Business [6181 896-8140 16 Minutes From Gampu• mown Route 7J Opan Sewn Day• College Rep Wanted I! -

Defense & Discipline Allow Union to Pull Upset Victory Over Coast Guard Places Union Back In Regional Poll by Frank Rossi Editor-in..,CJiief Last Saturday, to paraphrase James Taylor, the Coast Guard Bears saw fire and rain. The rain came from the dreary Connecticut sky, and the fire came from the Union College defensive second- ary, Their fjve interceptions helped hold offthe East Region's third-ranked team as the Fighting Dutchmen defeated Coast Guard, 14-6. The victory, which mirrors last year's Coast Guard win at Union's Bailey Field, move.s Union to 5-J and formerly unde- feated Coast Guard to 6-l. With the victory, the Dutchmen regained notice in their region, moving back into the \Others Re- ceiving Votes\ section of the Di- vision Ill East Region Poll. How- ever, poll watching is a habit the coaching staff and players are try- ing to avoid. After the victory, Head Coach John Audino said, \I've been watching the polls for the last year and a half, and I'm ~not going to do it anymore.\ Two \D's\ led to the Dutchm.en win: defense and discipline. Both were seen in the first quarter. The Dutchmen and Bears both failed to score on their opening drives, but each team's second drive was crucial. Union .saw senior running The Figilting Dutchmen celebrate after upsetting the number lhree Coast r.<,,n,.n gain much momenlum in the first half after Union's touchdown un- til last yea:r' s hero for the Bears, punter Andy Guedry, made an un- fortunate mistake. Guedry punted yard punt. The Dutchmen took the ball over at Coast Guard's 29, and with 25 seconds left in the half, Latella took the ball in for a two- yard touchdown. This gave the Gu<;~rd wanted to choose which goal to defend f~r bQth halves be- cause of the effects of the heavy wind and pesky rain on the Bears' passing and kicking games. The Bears showed up late for the sec- ond half, though, and the referees did not give them the option of choosing the goal to defend, This t!lrdiness not only cost the team five yards, but it proved trouble- some in the fourth quarter when the:;y had. to kick and pass into a ~tiff wind. In .the begi-nning of the third quarter, though, the Dutchmen ' made their own mistake. Latella fumbled the footbclH at Union's 30-yard line, and the Beat's quar- terback Dan· Warren capitalized with a five-:-yard touchdown pass. The extra point was missed, keep- ing the score at 14-6. Union followed this touchdown strike with a 14-play, seven- minute drive; which included a fake punt on a fourth and two from Coast Guard's 40.. The drive ended with a Brian Slekes punt after a fumble pushed the Dutch- men far away from field-goal ter- ritory. Two plays later, sophomore defensive back Joe Attanasio in- tercepted Warren's pass deep in Union territory. · This was Attanasio's second interception of the afternoon. Women's Soccer Makes States Break Record For Season Victories by Geoff Sullivan Sports Editor Ending the regular season with a victory over New Paltz, the Uni'On College Women's Soccer team anxiously waited over the weekend to find out which postseason tournament they would be invited to participate in. While the NCAA tour- returning players remember the loss and are anxious to get going with the tournament. If Union is able to defeat Plattsburg, the team would travel toOneontathisweek- end for tile State \Final Four\ showdown. Winning the State title could possibly mean a trip to the Division 3 NCAA tournament. sons. In 1994, !he Dutchwomen finished with a record of6-9. Af- · ·· ter that season, Brian Speck took ....-..;:~~~~··:·. over the program and has yet to have a losing .season. Since the 1994 season, coach Spe-ck has led the program to a combined record of26-15-4. Another record that was shat- l''gda1ie:1ft tered this sea- son was set by . . d'l i'( ,·£ .:py:at:ttfuite8ilie''l:)\J.tcl!ifriett:were:~tbli~ t~h&a:pitatw~·~r freshman M i s s y Matusewicz. She recorded 13 goals and had 8 assists for a tQtal of 21 points. An r .. ·\•\r~' :c;.~t.~~,,..:,,;;;.~c.,~;+\'';·liifill'kSitics''wnitfru1of'it pif.tSt\Bal!lar(:f . three figures I;L;:.·c. 'TJi(;r~iebl~n<rpc~ncid'tne:SRiititfg''l'titemnelrfcitttrie' ()Ut'\NitJilo'lift11e na1nent was a long shot, the team was looking at the State tourna- ment as there- alistic goal. To nobody's surprise, that is exactly where they landed. Their first round game will be a rematch oflast Abby Ha\is hopes to move Unio11jar into the playoffs. (Laurie KirschnernC) are records in their re- spected cat- egories and il- .lustrate the magical sea- son Matuse- wicz has had. year's State tournament game against Plattsburg. Unlike last year, the game is in Schenectady at 2pm on Wednesday. \I think our team is excited to play them again,\ said head coach Brian Speck. \We;re looking to get revenge for the 6-1 loss we suffered last year.\ Many of the With a final regular season record of I 0-4-1, the 1 997 Dutchwomen tied the school record, set by the 1991 Dutchwomen, for most victories in a regular season. Also, It marks the first time in school history that the Women's Soccer program has had three consecutive winning sea- Assuming that Union is victori- ous over Plattsburg, the games this weekend should be a strong test to see ifUnion deserves the national attention they were close to all sea- son. They could use your support · in attempting to win the State title and moving further into postseason play. .. j 1 - I

Defense & Discipline Allow Union to Pull Upset Victory' Over Coast G11ard Places llnion Back In Regional Poll by Frank Rossi Editor-in-Chief Last Saturday, to paraphra;:;e James Taylor, the Coast Guard Bears saw fire and rain. The rain Glmt.: from tht.: drear) Connecticut sky, and the fire came from the Union College defensive second- ary. Their five interceptions helped hold off the East Region's third-ranked team as the Fighting Dutchmen defeated Coast Guard, 14-6. The victory, which mirrors last year's Coast Guard win at Union's Bailey Field, moves l' n ion to 5- I and formerly undl.!- k.tti.!J Co<.t~t GuarJ to 6-1. With the victory, tht.: Dutchmen regained notice in their region. mo\ ing back into the \\Others Re- ceiving Votes\ section of the Di- ' i!> ion Ill East Region Poll. !low- ever. poll watching i:. a habit the coaching stan· and players arc try- ing to avoid. A lh:r the \ictor\), !lead Coach John Audino said, \\I've been watching the polls for the last year and a half. and I\m _pot going to do it anymore.\ Two '\D's\ led to the Dutchmen win: defense and discipline. Both were seen in the first quarter. The Dutchmen and Bears both failed to score on their opening drives, but each team's second drive was crucial. Union saw senior running The FightiiiR Dutchmen celebrate after upsetting the number three C()ast Guard Bears. (Hannah Blum!TC) back Joe Latella run for 28 yards the ball into his \up man,\ effec- Dutchmen a 14-0 halftime lead. on four carries and freshman Den- tively having his punt blocked by Latella, who carried the ball an nis Sanabia carry once for a 25- his own team. The slippery turf incredible 40 times for 147 yards :rard touchdown. Coast Guard was may have played a rok in thi.! &- (II 0 in the first half), again gave able to run the ensuing kick- credit to his offensive line off back to their own 44- ..---S------ 8 --- 0 ---------. for his first-half success. )<~rd line, but an unsport:,- COre Y Uarters 'Th~ offensiv~ line opt!neJ manlike conduct penalty upsomebigholesinthefirst stopped the drive in its 1 2 1 4 .E half. [Senior fullback Matt tracks. With the IS-yard Union 7 7 0 0 • 14 Braunwart] did an awesome penalty, Coast Guard was USCGA O O G O S job in blocking all game.\ eventually forced to punt. • The second half started in Neither team was able to gain much momentum in the first half after Union's touchdown un- til last year· s hero for the Bears, punter Andy Guedry, made an un- fortunate mistake. Guedry punted yard punt. The Dutchmen took the ball over at Coast Guard's 29, and with 25 seconds left in the half, Latella took the ball in for a two- yard touchdown. This gave the a very unusual fashion. Union had won the opening coin toss and deferred. However, Coast Guard elected to kick, meaning that Union could accept the open- ing kickoff for both halves. Coast Guard wanted w choose which goal to defend for both halves be- cause of the effects of the heavy wind and pesky rain on the Bears' passing and kicking games. The Bears showed up late for the sec- ond half, though, and the rderecs did not give them the option of choosing the goal to defend. This tardiness not only cost the team five yards, but it proved trouble- some in the fourth quarter when they had to kick and pass into a stiff wind. In the beginning of the third quarter, though, the Dutchmen made their own mi~take. Latella fum bkJ the football at l_j 11 ioil. ~ 30-yarJ line, and the Bear's yuar- terback Dan Warren capitalized with a five-yard touchdown pass. The extra point was missed, keep- ing the score at 14-6. Union followed this touchdown strike with a 14-play, seven- minute drive, which included a fake punt on a fourth and two from Coast Guard's 40. The drive ended with a Brian Slekes punt after a fumble pushed the Dutch- men far away from field-goal ter- ritory. Two plays later, sophomore defensive back Joe Attanasio in- tercepted Warren's pass deep in Union territory. This was Attanasio's second interception of the afternoon. continued on page 17 Women's Soccer Makes States Break Record For Season Victories Hockey Opens With Young Team & Surprising Result by Geoff Sullivan Sports Editor Ending the regular season with a victory over New Paltz, the Union College Women's Soccer team anxiously waited over the weekend to find out which postseason tournament they would returning players remember the loss and are anxious to get going with the tournament. If Union is able to defeat Plattsburg, the team would travel to Oneonta this week- end for the State Hfinal Four\ showdown. Winning the State title could possibly mean a trip to the Division 3 NCAA tournament. sons. In 1994, the Dutchwomen finished with a record of 6-9. Af- ter that season, Brian Speck took over the program and has yet to have a losing season. Since the 1994 season, coach Speck has led the program to a combined record of26-15-4. Another record that was shat- ~.,...,..........,..-.,-...,..,..,~= tered this sea- be invited to participate in. While the NCAA tour- nament was a long shot, the team was looking at the State tourna- ment as there- alistic goal. To nobody's surprise, that is exactly \here they landed. Their first round game will be a rematch oflast Abby Harris hopes to move Union far i11to the playoffs. (Laurie Kirschner/TC) son was set by freshman M i s s y Matusewicz. She recorded 13 goals and had 8 assists for a tgtal of 21 points. All three figures are records in their re- spected cat- egories and il- lustrate the magical sea- son Matuse- wicz has had. yr:ar's State tournament game against Plattsburg. Unlike last year, the game is in Schenectady at 2pm on Wednesday. \I think our team is excited to play them again,\ said head coach Brian Speck. \We're looking to get revenge for the 6-1 loss we suffered last year.\ Many of the With a final regular season record of 10-4-1, the 1997 Dutchwomen tied the school record, set by the 1991 DUichwomen, for most victories in a regular season. Also, It marks the first time in school history that the Women's Soccer program has had three consecutive winning sea- Assuming that Union is victori- ous over Plattsburg, the games this weekend should be a strong test to see if Union deserves the national attention they were close to all sea- son. They could use your supp()rt in attempting to win the State title and movmg further into postseason play. by Hannah Blum Staff Writer Last weekend, the Skating Dutchmen opened their season by fac- ing the friars of Providence College. At first. the Dutthmen looked : like they were in some real trouble with less than 30 seconds into the · game. Omicioli of PC came off a Union icing call and .caught senior · goalie Trevor Koenig off guard with a goal. However. the Dutchmen . did not let the goal affect their game. Although. the ~play was very · choppy at times the Dutchmen were able to capitalize~n a mistake of . the Friars and bring the puck out of the neutral zone and deep into the Friars end. Next thing PC goal tender Boyd Ballard knew Union fresh- . man Dave Smith sent a shot from the left slot and made it 1-1 at 5:38 . of the first. The rest of the first period the puck spent the majority of • the time in the neutral zone as neither offensive line could penetrate to . the opposing net. However, late in the first defenseman Jeff Sproat ; sent a clear pass to Smith who was able to slip past a friars defender • and send a pass to Mark Szucs who shot it past Ballard. The second period the Skating Dutchmen came out without the fire they had at the end of the first and it cost them, as third line, forward Tro;y Lake from the Friars easily skated past the Dutchmen defenders and ricocheted a shot past Trevor Koenig at 1 :25 of the second. Once again, however, the Dutchmen came back. Showing much more agil- ity and clear passing the Dutchmen were finally able to break through the defense in the PC zone. Freshman Daniel Pugen was able to clear the puck away from two Friars in the right comer and sent a pass to SzuCS • .Szucs who stayed right outside the crease saw no open shot at Ballard and sent the puck to Campbell who waited openly at the point. Campbell sent a shot at Ballard who was unable to make the save and the Dutchmen were up,by one. · Nearly three min1.1te,~later Providence came back and caught Ko~nig at the five hole and they tied itup. Neither team was able to capitalize bythe end<>ftheperiod; UuioncameqU,tm.uchmore motivated in the tWtd' p.erio~fand w:¢re:s~ndbtgcle$\ pMSe$ but w~re unable t<1 get a sho,t. past~a;JIEUiq;, ~t~f . . . th.~ tf.Wd~ r~9Yid.¢~~~,d,~~e~~~~!ln Ben · .. · (.!oril/nucd.on P4KfJ 17

