Opinion: Sports: Student Forum Minutes Page4 Why Watch the Monarchy? Strong Soccer Weekend Page 24 Page 15 The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Ph.an Freed From Prison by Anjali Balasingham Staff Writer Graduate student Minh Pha~'s father, Hein Dihn Phan, Was finally released from a Vietnamese prison on August 24, after 18 years of incarceration. Over the past sev- eral years, Minh Phan has made extensive and persistent efforts to have his father freed, and during the last year, these efforts have in- volved the Union community. Hein Dihn Phan, now 75-years- old, became an employee of the old South Vietnamese government after he escaped fr:om communist North Vietnam in 1954. In 1975, the communists took over South Vietnam and Phan, the vice-presi- dent of an anti-Communist orga- nization, was taken as a political prisoner in 1981. During the .first five years .of his incar<;enition, Phan was not allowed to have any contact with his family, and even after that period, his visitation rights were severely restricted. The injustice ofPhan's sentence· prompted his son Minh to take ac- tion on Hein Dihn's behalf. Minh, an American resident since 1990, contacted numerous organizations in hopes of finding a supporter of his cause. With regard to the suc- cess of his initial efforts, Minh says, \I tried to cont~ct Amnesty International's headquarters in London about three years ago, but r never got any response from them.\ Last year when he con- tacted the organization again, he continued 011 page 3 Caution! Union Constru,ction Update ... by Lisa Pertoso Contributing Writer The hammering and drilling heard around Union College cam- pus by staff and students is the consttuction ofthe Olin Building and tile expansion of the I ibrary, which began last spring. The agreeable weather has allowed the Pike Construction Company from Rochester, New York to work con- sistently on the Olin Center and to keep only two weeks behind schedule, says Bill Schaffer, the project coordinator. July 13, 1998 marks the day of substantial completion, meaning the building will be ready for use excluding fin- ishing touches, such as carpeting and painting. Overall expenses of (Laurie Kirschner I TC) the building are estimated at 8 mil- lion dollars funded by the Olin family and the college. The pur- poseofthe Olin Building is to pro- vide a high-tech learning center with computer classrooms of vari- ous sizes and a state-of-the-art au- diovisual auditorium. When com- pleted, all students will be using co11tinued on page 3 New Trial Class Schedule In Place For Winter Term by Neba Shah Monday, Wednesday, and Friday noon and must wait until I :30 PM to schedule meeting times that are around campus for one hour a has been eliminated to allow for to eat lunch. Some ma:y even be conducive to all faculty and staff. week. Dean of Arts & Sciences Staff Writer this common lunch period and has closed out of a lunch slot com- This open period will also permit Christina Sorum stated that the stu- A brand new class schedule wi II been replaced with a Tuesday, pletely if they have classes con- various student groups to sched- dents on the Academic Affairs be in place for a trial period, ef- Thursday, and Friday period. On tinuotlsly from II :00 AM through ule their meetings during this time. Committee were in favor of the fective this winter term. Starting Tuesday and Thursday, the class the afternoon, past dining room The faculty are said to be willing changes, and the faculty were also in January, according to Associ- will begin at 11:15 PM and end at closing time of2:00 PM. The new to try this new schedule during the \eager to try it.\ ate Dean for Academic Services 12:20 PM, and on Friday the class schedule guarantees every student winter term. At the end of winter term, the and Planning Dwight Wolf, the will begin at 1 Z: 15 PM and end at a time to eat at least four days a The currently continuous sched- new schedule will be up for rec- last class on Monday and Wednes- 1:20PM. week, Monday through Thursday. ule that runs from 8:40 AM until ommendation by the AAC, though day mornings will end at 12:05 This new schedule was voted on The other advantage provided 4:45 PM was originally devised President Hull and Dean Linda PM, allowing for a campus-wide last spring by the Academic Af- by this new schedule is a c<Jmmon when the \Minerva Hour\ was Cool will make the final decision lunch period extending from 12:05 fairs Council in order to create a time, Monday and Wednesday at eliminated due to lack of interest. on whether to implement the PM to 1 :30 PM. free period. Under the current 12:05 PM to 1:30 PM, when no This hour provided a forum where schedule for the future. The class period that runs be- schedule, some students have faculty are bound to teach a class, students and faculty could gather To see the new trial schedule, tween 12:25 PM and 1:30PM 0n classes that run through the after- therefore allowing the departments to discuss the important issues please turn to page three. Financial Miscues Lead Forum to Reclaim Funds by Aileen Quigley Editor-In-Chief As a result of a misappropria- tion of $14,000 in student funds by the 1996- I 997 Finance Committee members, the bud- gets for this years' student clubs and activities have felt the impact of inher- ited debt. A classic · case of counting ones chickens be- . fore they have· hatched, the hold- ing account of the student forum was depleted to $466.54 when the expected INSIDE: I \roll over\ did not come through. The money that should have re- plenished that account had already been over-budgeted and spent by the end oflast year, prompting the standing Student Forum to cut Campus News ................................... 2 News ................................................ .3 back funds for this year. The money availablet<l the Stu- dent Forum comes from the $65- per-term student activities fee paid by each student as part of tuition. Muitiply that by about 2,000 stu- dents, and the resulting figure is roughly $380,000. This figure, al- beit somewhat conservative de- pending on the number of students enrolled, was presented by Lee Roseto the Finance Committee as the ballpark from which the club budgets would be allotted. In spite of working within this limit, the committee members recom- mended to the Student Forum the approval of 59 club budgets total- ing about $394,000. Normally, clubs don't spend all the money they are given, and those un- spent funds are put back into the holding account for the fol- lowing year. How- ever, these clubs did use the money they were given, leaving nothing to roll over into the holding ac- count for 1997· co11tinued 011 3 National New.s!Scienc.e& Technology .. 7 Op-ed ................................................. B Arts& Entertainment ............................. l6 Features ............... ;. .......................... JO Sports ...................................................... 24

-----------~---~-----~---~-. -~------ -·-:--. ··[-News: Opinion: $ports: . Student R.ontm .M. in.utes Pagt> 4 -------·~----~----·--~~·--------~ Phan Freed From Prison by AnjaJi Balasingham Staff Writer Graduate student Minh Phan's father. Hein Dihn Phan, was finally released from a Vietnamese prison on August 24, after 18 years of incarceration. Over the past sev- eral years, 1\1 inh Ph an has made extensive and persistent efforts to have his father freed, and during the last year, these efforts have in- volved the L 'nion ~ommunity. I kin Dihn Ph an, now 75-years- old, became an employee of the old South Vietnamese government after he escaped from communist No11h Vietnam in I 954. In 1975, the communists took over South Vietnam and Phan, the vice-presi- dent of an anti-Communist orga- nization, was taken as a political prisoner in 1981. During the first five years of his incarceration, Phan was not allowed to have any contact with his family. and even after that period, his visitation rights were severely restricted. The injustice ofPhan 's sentence prompted his son Minh to take ac- tion on Hein Dihn's behalf. Minh, an American resident since 1990, contacted numerous organizations in hopes of finding a supporter of his cause. With regard to the suc- <.:css of his initial efforts. \1inh says. \I tried to contact Amnesty International's headquarters in London about three years ago, but I never got any response from them.\ Last year when he con- tacted the organization again, he continued on page 3 Why Watch the Jvfonarchy? Strong Soccer Weekend Page 15 ·L_ __ . ---· Page 2-i Caution! Union Construction Update .. o by Lisa Pertoso Contributing Writer The hammering and drilling heard around Union College cam- pus by staff and students is the construction of the Olin Building and the expansion of the library, which began last spring. The agreeable \\t.:ather has allo\\ed the Pike Cun:;truction Company from Rochester, ~e\\ Y urk to\\ or k Cc111· sistentl) on the Olin Cenkr .md tu keep onl) t\Hl \\cds bchinJ schedule, says Bill Schaffer, the project coordinator. July 13, 1998 marks the day of substantial completion. meaning the building will be ready for use excluding fin- ishing touches, such as carpeting and painting. Overall expenses of the building are estimated at 8 mil- lion dollars funded by the Olin family and the college. The pur- pose ofthe Olin Ruilding is to pro- vide a high-tech learning ~,;enter > with computer dassrooms uf' an- ous siLes and a state-ofthe-arl au- dio'\-isl!al auditorium. \\'hen Ctl£11- pkteu. all students \\ill he usin~ continued on pa:{!,e 3 New Trial Class Schedule In Place For Winter Term bJ Neha Shah Staff Writer A brand new class schedule will he in place for a trial period, ef- fective this winter term. Starting in January. according to Associ- ate Dean for Academic Services and Planning Dwight Wolf, the last class on Monday and Wednes- day mornings will end at 12:05 P\1. allowing for a campus-wide lunch period extending from I 2:05 P\1 to I :30 PM. The class period that runs be- tween 12:25 PM and I :30 Pf\.1 on t\londay, Wednesday, and Friday has been eliminated to allow for this common lunch period and has been replaced with a Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday period. On Tuesday and Thursday, the class will begin at I I: 15 Pl\.1 and end at 12:20 PM, and on Friday the class will begin at 12:15 PM and end at I :20 PM. This new schedule was voted on last spring by the Academic A f- fairs Council in order to create a free period. Under the current schedule, some students have classes that run through the after- noon and must wait until I 30 PM to eat lunch. Some may even be closed out of a lunch slt't t.:om- pletely if they have classes con- tinuously from I I :00 A\1 through the afternoon, past dining room closing time of2:00 Pf\1. The new schedule guarantees every student a time to eat at least four days a week, Monday through Thursday. The other advantage provided by this new schedule is a common time, 1\londay and Wednesday at 12:05 PM to 1:30 P~1. when no faculty are bound to teach a class, therefore allowing the departments to schedule meeting times that are conducivt: to all faculty and staff. This ~lpen period \\iII also permit various studem groups to sched- ule their meetings during this time. The faculty are said to be \'<illing to try this new schedule during the winter term. The currently continuous sched- ule that runs from 8:40 Af\1 until 4:45 P1\1 was originally devised when the \'1\lincrva !lour\ was eliminated due to lack of interest. This hour provided a forum where students and faeult) wuld gather to discuss the important issues around campus for Dne hour ,1 week. Dean uf :\rb & S..:tcn<:e~ Cllr i~iifhl Sllrtlfn 'l.tlt'J tlrallh.: :.l u- cJcnlS on the Academic Aftl1i rs Conm1ittee \\ere in f~nor of tile changcs,and the 1;1cuJt} \\ere al!>tl ''eager t<.J tr) it.\ At the end of \\inter term. th c ne\\ sdtcdulc \\ill be up fur rec- ommenclation b) the:\:\(·. thougl1 Prcsidt:nt Hull and Dean Linda ( 'ool \'iII 111<1ht.: the final dc..;i)itlll l>fl \\hethcr to implement tile schcdu!t...: for the future. To sec the Ill:\\ trial ~..:heduk:. please turn to page three. ... The More2'J7bey Sta:y The Same!! Financial Miscues Lead Forum to Reclaim Funds by Aileen Quigley Editor-In-Chief As a result of a misappropria- tion of $ J 4,000 in student funds by the I 096-1997 ! 111.111\' ( •IJlllllltt~·l' lllt'mhcr'. till' hud- :.'l'h f••1 tlw. \l'dr< . . '' lllknt ell! h' and • 1~'11\ltll'' h,l\ l' kit the llllP:lc'l, '' i nher- l!t'd ,lrf'l \ ,·f.h,ll' , ;~\ t' \I , '' 11111 in 1-! •'Ill'' clli,·k,·n, hl·- lt'ft' the~ h;ne h.IILhul. thl' hold- liE~ .llc<'lllll 11f till' .tu,knt f<'rlllll \\.1' ,f<..·t'k\t'd ,, ''!> j(,(, .:; l ''lien lht l·\pl·..:ll:d ·:·tNSiJJE.~ •• ' ;. ·'. l ~ - •• \roll over\ did not come through. The money that should have re- plenished that account had already been over-budgeted and spent by the end of last year, prompting the standing Student Forum to cut Campus ;\'ews ... . News ... 2 ...3 back funds for this year. The money available to the Stu- dent Forum comes from the $65- per-term student activities fee paid by each student as part of tuition. tvlultiply that by about 2,000 stu- Jt.?nb, and the resulting figure is roughly $380,000. This figure, al- beit somewhat conservative de- pending on the number of students enrolled, was presented b; Lee Rose to the Finance Committee as the ballpark trom \\hich the ~ ht h budget> 1vould be allutkd. In ~pitc of 1vorking. V\ithin this limit. tile t.:om 1nittec members rect•m- mcnlied to the Student Forum tit~: apprm.al t..lf59 duh budgch tt,l.d· ~~~..,......,......,......,.....,_ _ _..._.....,......,....,...,_......,..,..... _ _,...,_\\\'\:\~-.---- ;t,n 'lhnnt '1n. 1 n 111 \ ;i 1 .:~/l{6~)th·~;,·stud~ent····F,oru.m.·i~laRs i·WJl~i:~;~i~~f~~~;:~~~,~~t~ $if~''~'j:'ic,j• ·.·: .. .,,.,~~;,,,,,,;.-,,.;,,,,, .. ,:;rFlnanctal Mtseues·:\ :·:!;:,,:.:-.' /~:·., .... ~;~~-:':\.~t'·t:-·:.·.::~Y.>: .. :··.··~~~: .. ,.,~~,--t;\_~-\~.-- ----.~.~- ~--~: -·. ~~-·.-. <-_· __ .-. _ .< .... t·.~·;~; .... : .. ··.· .. · .. :. .Vatwnal.\'ews ,l.,'u<'llt ·, & ·f{,dmology .. ~ Op-ed . . 8 Features . Arts & 1-.'ntertammt'll/ ,C.,JIO/'{S J, . lilt' II~._·\ t II\. ' :· C: II ''II , I I . , j .. 'l'l'll[ i!llid' .1~,· !\. t.._ k ; :. ~ : L\. :

. . Page 2 .• September 1_8, 1997 • C£lte O:mtn1roi~usis- Campus News . . . ' . . . . Campus Security Info UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER3 THROUGH SUNDAY; SEPTEMBER 14,1997 DATEfflME LOCATION INCIDENT WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER3, 1997: 8:35 AM Reamer Center SAFETY HAZARD: Basement corridor and fire-exit blocked by improper storage. 11:00 PM South College THEFT: Student's unlocked bike stolen from bike rack outside ofthe building. THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER4, 1997: No seriousincidentsreported · FRIDAY, SEPTEMBERS, 1997: 4:55AM South Terrace Lane VANDALISM: Newly planted tree broken in half. 9:05AM Webster House PROPERTY MISSING: Refrigerator missing from basement kitchenette. 9:05AM WellsHouse THEFT: TVNCRstolenfromroom. Leftunattended during summer break. 4:38PM Reamer Center ATTEMPTED THEFT: Student took item ftom SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER6, 1997: campus store without paying-claimed misunderstanding at cash-out. 12:20 AM Residence Hall · HARASSMENT: Student received unwanted communication. 4:00AM South College VANDALISM: Student punched glass in entry door damaging glass. Student fled scene. 10: I 0 AM Alexander Lane VANDALISM: Concrete in newly made sidewalks defaced by graffiti. 10:13 AM Potter North VANDALISM: Window broken. SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER7,19~7: 1:20AM Library Lane SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Subject observed staggering across campus. Subject identified as visitor. Assisted off campus. I :21 AM Old Chapel Colon. VANDALISM: Glass on pamphlet information center distribution box broken, 2:53 AM Campus Grounds SUSPICiOUS PERSON: Subject wandering around campus aimlessly. Visitor with no stated purpose. Identified and advised off campus. I :30 PM Raymond/Potter Lo THEFT: Mirror stolen from student's parked car. 3: I 0 PM Hickok House PROPERTY MISSING: Posters and lamp missing from student's room. Left there over summer break. MONDAY, SEPTEMBERS, 1997: II: 15 AM Fox House PROPERTY MISSING: Mail room cart loaned to . student to assist with large packages. Cart not returned and last seen in Fox House. Anyone with knowledge of whereabouts please contact the mailroom. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER9, 1997: 12:00 AM Fraternity SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Unauthorized social event. I :29 AM Davidson North DISORDERLYCONDUCT: Students causing a disruption in residence hall. Not residents of building. 7:24AM Residence Hall HARASSMENT: Student receiving unwanted communication of a sexual nature. II :05 AM AD Phi area VANDALISM: Mirror broken on student's parked car. Sodapoured all over the car. 12:35 PM Reamer Center SAFETY HAZARD/MINOR FIRE: Extension cord being used to power electric grill overheated and began to smolder. No damage or injury. 9:00PM AD Phi area VANDALISM: Steering wheel on student's parked car bent. Car was not secured. WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1997: 8:20AM S&E SAFETY HAZARD: Northside basement corridor. Improper storage ofhazardous waste. Mitigated. 10:00 AM Hickok UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY/PROPERTY MISSING: Students, not residents ofbuilding, were observed entering building through window, later a table and plant were found missing. 11 :30 AM Reamer Center SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Campus store staff report THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1997: seeing person, whose picture and arrest story were featured in newspaper, frequenting public phones in campus center. Subject has long history of harassment of women. Area checked thoroughly subject not found on campus. No untoward actions reported on campus. I :33 AM Richmond SECURITY HAZARD/DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Non buildingresidentproppingentry doors. Became hostile when corrected by desk attendant 4:23AM Wade Lupe Apts. BURGLARY:. Students returned to apartment to find entry door wide opened and stereo missing. SPD notified. 8:25AM Fox/Davidson Lot V ANDALISMffHEFT: Student jogging by parking area <Jbserved suspectsmash a window in student's car that was parked at the north end ofthe lot. Jogger notified campus safety. Area thoroughly searched suspect not located. Cell phone taken from car. SPD notified. 5:11 PM Fox House PROPERTY MiSSING: Student's parka missing from closet believed possibly stolen from room. 5:58PM Alexander Lane PROPERTYDAMAGEIINJURY: Motor vehicle FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12,1997: driven by visitor struck barrier chain causing damage to car and minor injury to driver. Driver attention was diverted ashe was looking for parking spaces and did not see the chain across the roadway. 1:30AM Chi Psi TRESPASS; Visitor attempting to gain entry to residence was turned away by residents. Suspect left campus and called to file complaint against the fraternity. 8:47AM Webster House PROPERTY MISSING: Chair missing from TV room in basement. 9/15/97 second similar chair reported missing. 12:55 PM Reamer Center PROPERTY MISSING: Studentreportedbackpack missing. Officer checked and fQund similar backpack in same location. Student had inadvertently picked up wrong backpack. Backpacks exchanged. 2:20 PM Fox North PROPERTYM:ISSING: Student loaned stereo box to friends to use in lounge area. Stereo left unattended. Owner now unable to locate stereo-ster<lo possibly stolen or in use by someone else in building. 6:25PM Alexander Lane PROPERTY MISSING~ Student's shoes missing ftom car parked in Alumni Gytn lot. Car locked, no sign Qf forced entry. 7:40PM Campus Grounds PROPERTY MISSING: Student's wallet misplaced, unable to locate. 10:56 PM Fox House area SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student becanteill due to alcohoJ,consumption, Paramedics not[fted. Subject hospitalized. Conduct Charges filed. 11 :46.PM Alexander Lane SUSPICIOUS PERSONSffRESPASS: Preventive SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 13,1997: Patrol observed two subjects wandering aU over campus. Subjects stopped and identified. Claimedto be_ guests ()f studentlooking for social events, Subjects-not affiliated withcantpus. Stlbjects became argumentative .and belligerent. One subject previously advised off campus~ SPD contacted-due to call back-up prioritization unal>le tomaleinunediate response. Subjects escorted off campus. 12:42 AM Chi Psi FIRE ALARM/PROPERTY DAMAGE: Heat detector accidentally damaged causing :fire alarm to activate. 5:44PM Residence Hall HARASSMENT: St!ldentreceivingumvanted communication. 6:37PM Hickok - TRESPASS: Report ofsubjects looking into windows of residence hall. Three juveniles located, iuenti fed and escorted offcampus. 7:34PM Residence Hall HARASSMENT: Stt1dentreceiving unwanted communication of a sexual nature. Caller identified. Conduct Charges filed. 9:34PM Fox North VANDALISM/SAFETY HAZARD: Hinge indoor SUNDAY, SEPTEMJJERl4, 1997: intentionally disabled causingentrydoorto be inoperable. !2:38AM LamontHous~ VANDALISM: Windowbroken. IAl AM Fox House SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Studentbec~:Uneilldueto alcohol conSllmption. Paramedics notified and treated at scene. Conduct Charges filed. 5:22AM Fox South VANDALISM: Glass in entry door broken. TOGETHER FOR A SAFE CAMPUS-SAFETY NOTES: Welcome back to campus. Just a few suggestions to seek your assistance to help -us help you: I) Please remember to lock your residence doors (exterior and interior }and carry your room key and lD card with you. Don't invite crime.;.lockyourvaluables; don't leave valuables in parked cars; avoid walking ah>ne, on or off campus, during night time hours (dusk to dawn). 2) Escort vans are available for safety escorts Sundays through Thursdays from dusk to I :OOAM and on Fridays and Saturdays from dusk to 3:00AM. Please remember tltat this is a safety escort intended for students who are alone ... groups of stuilents are asked not to :use the escort service to avoid service overload and unnecessary backlog. Tlnnk you for your understanding and-cooperation. Escort Service CALL X-6386. 3) Report suspicious activities immediatelyto campus.safetyX-6911. For immediate crisis·intervention •.• crime in progress, fire or medical emergency call X-911. 4) The campus safety department has active patrols 24 hours daily. Please contactus regarding any safety or security concerns. 5) Parkingreminder ... all campus roadways, even though they are not posted, are considered fire lanes-no parking is allowed along roadways. Please be courteous.;.park only in autltorized (()ts and marked parking spaces. Do NOT park in handicapJled reserved spaces unlessy<>uhave an authorized handicapped permit. Ail members of the campus community must register cars that are parked on campus ... please register at the campus safety department office. Freshman students may NOT have cars on campus-subject to a $100 fine per occurrence. CallX-6178 M-F 8AM-4PM for any questions relating to parking or vehicle registration issues. · 6) Bikes are a frequent target of thieves. Please use top of the line U-:Bolt locks and lock your bikes appropriately to a fixed object. ln the interest offtre safety please J)O NOT lock or store bikes on stairways or IN fire exit areas. 7) Please DO NOT prop open residence hall entty doors or hold the door O)len for persons who are unknown to you. 8) Solicitors are NOT permitted to do door tv door sales in residence halls. If you observe a solicitor in a residencehall please contact campus safety immediately. Last year unauthorized solici- tors in residence balls were responsible for selling a service product (personal gr<>omihg services) to students which were refused to be honored by the service provider claiming that the solicitor was not their sales representative. 9) Please cooperate with the desk attelldants:stationed at the residence halls. If you are visiting in a residence hall please show your ID card and sigll in as requested. Your CO<>peration wiUbe greatly appreciated and will facjlitatethe process and help the:<lesk attendants identifY authorized Jlersons. 1 0) Among other items, candles, open fl!lmes, ~tppliances withexpose<l heating coi Is, halogen lamps and \octopus\ cords are not permitted in residence hans. Please_ read your97/98 student hand- book for more particulars on residence hall fire regulations and fire safety or consult your RA. house manager or campus safety for further information. 11) Evacuation of buildings, whenever a fire alarm sounds, is- vi~ally important. False alarms tend to reduce sensitivity to the emergent nature of a fire .alaml and _causes slow response. Slow response in an actual fire emergency could mean the difference between life and death! Please avoid causing false alanns and ple-ase immediately evacuatewheriever a fire alann sounds in any building! 12) If the smoke detector in your room begins to emit an intennittent beeping sound this is indicative of a sensitivity problem. Please DO NOT attempt to remove the detector or correct this problem yourself. lmmediately call campus safety X6911, at any hour, and someone will respond to change the detector and cortectthe problem. On behalf of all ()f the members of the Campus Safety Dept. we vvisb you a safe, successful mtd enjoyable year! ] tlu an co of WI bn arc is tile tol pn pre !lS 0 f<ll

' ' . ' · ~ampus Nc\-,'S . . . . iilyr <Ct,unw:Oimsis • September 18, 1997 • Page 3 Campus Announcements Professor A11n A11derson, Mechanical Engineering, is curre11Hy being reviewed for tenure. Any member ()f the campus community who wishes to provide information on her teaching, college service, o·r scholarsltip should send their letter to committee chairS. Gmelch (ANT). Committee members include: K. Hollocher (GEO), J. Spinelli (EE), and R. Wilk (ME). Meeting For All Freshman Biolo.gy Majors & Students Interested In Biology Thursday, September 18th Reamer Center Auditorium 4:30PM Union College Department ofBiologieal Sciences And . The following ad hoc committee has been formed to evaluate the tenurability of Assistant Pmfessor Brenda Johnson of the Department of Mathematics: The Biology Club Present \Tension in the Petri Dish: Is There Pushing and Pulling Between Actin Filaments and Microtubules\ J. Richard Shanebrook (Chair) - Mech. Eng in. Julius B. Barbanel- Mathematics Daniel J. Bums- Psychology Bonney MacDonald - English Dr. Barbara Danowski '' ', ' Department ofBiologieal Sciences - U nioo College Thursday, September 18, 1997 12:30PM Bailey Hall, Room 312 - Refreshmen.ts Provided Members of the Union community are invited to submit testimony on Professor Johnson•s teaching, research, or service to any member of the committee. Important Meeting ForA// Pre-Law Students!! I Tuesday, September 23 at 4:30 P .. M. In SSCI-103, Social Sciences Building If you wish to receive pre-law advising, it is essentia·l tllat you attend this meeting. If you have a conflict, please call: TERRY WEINER, PRE-LAW ADVISOR, Ext. 6066. Effective Winter Term, Here is tbe New Class Schedule: There are 8 Periods in the New Schedule: Period 1 - 'MfW/F 8:30-9:35 Period 2- MIW/F 9:45-10:50 Period 3- MNV/F 11 :'00-12:05 Period 4- TrTh/F 11 :15-12:20 (T/Th) 12:15-1:20 (F). Period 5-- MfW/F 1:30-2:35 Period 6- MfW/F 2:45-3:50 Period 6a- MVV 2:45-4:35 Period 7- Trrh 9:15-11 :05 Period 8- T/Th 1 :30-3:20 Note: No class (except Period 4 on Friday) will occur from 12:15-1:20 and Period 4 introduces Tues., Thurs.~ Fri. classes Construction Update.u Continued From Page 1 Phan Released ... Continued From Page 1 the building for c:omputer access and classrooms. The library's completion is m~k:ed for the end of January, 1998, provided that the weather cooperat-es. The new li- brary will allow for 1wice the study area and greater sp~ce for books. · However, until the construction is finished, the projects only affect the student body by creating de- tClurs for pedestrians and cars. At present, Campus Safety has ap- proved temporary V~~alkways such a.s through the Reanter Campus Center, as the most secure routes f<lr students and staff and are al- was sent illetter saying that \ . . . they cotJkln 't do anything for m:Y father. I sellt letters to President Clinton, to the Department o-f ready planning for clear paths State, [aad) to the U.N., and I when snowbegins to fall. Shennell didn't get ally response from them Antrobus, '00 comments, \The either.\ Pit an also tried contactins facilities that the Olin Building and Vietnamese leaders-the prime the library will provide are defi- · minister, president, and represell- nitely needed. However, I feel that tative in Washington D.C.-but he the campus is becoming over- still received no encouragement. crowded in one area, and of course Ph an' -s final approach was to the construction is a major incon- contact the Union College Cb.ap- venience when walking up-cam- ter of Amnesty International. Last pus to my room.\ As Union's aca- February, the chapter hosted a let• demic needs, recognition, and stti- ter~writin~ campaign on campus to dent body continue to grow, the · lobby for.ltis father's release. More next construction projects for the than 1 ,20() letters were written campus will most likely focus on over a period of two days. Phan residence halls. says that altiJough the government did not explicitly correlate his becausetheweatherwould be very father's release to the letters, he hard on him.\ Phan says that his believes that the chapter's cam- father was touched when he was paign was a driving force. shown a photograph taken during Having received no pri<lr notice the letter writing campaign. \He ofhis father's liberation, Phan says just couldn't imagine that after all that he and his family were these years, someone still remem- \shocked overjoyed, and over- bered him . . . . He was just so whelmed\ with the development. happy.\ Phan was in Vietnam at the time Phan thanks the entire Union of the release. \I was able to spend community on behalf of his father two to three days with him before and family, with special apprecia- I c;:une back here,\ he says. Hein ti<ln for the Graduate Management Dihn Phan will still be on proba- Institute, the Schaffer Library, the tion for five years, and will be re- Mathematics Department, and the quired to routinely report to Viet- Union College Chapter of Am- namese officials. Phan is \very nesty International for their help. weak and thin,'' according to his \Your effort wa~ important to my son. \He's allowed to come here father's release,\ he says, \and we [to the U.S.), but I told him not to will never forget your concern.\

Officer Reports VP Administration-(Suzanne Dougherty)- VP Social/Campus Life-(David Strickland)-Transcender September 19 4-1 Opm in Chets VP Academics-( Andy Markowski)-Class Schedule Change for winter term VP Multicultural Affairs-(Umang Dessai) Possibl·e Carnival .incorporating all ctdtures Trustees-(Jon Zandman, Jr. Trustee, )- IFC-(Sam Cousins)- Updating all Greek house Risk management policies - IFC gift to the school -Greek Newsletter coming along PanHell- Sept. 20 Greek Block Party -Goals: Promotion of Women's issues on campus THC-Goals: Promote Theme house awareness Class Reports Senior Cls.-Student Forum retreat Junior Cis.- ideas: Oct.l7 Pre-Halloween Party at Rathskellar- Pumpkin selling for charity Sophomore Cis.- Goals: More involvement with com munity work with Campus Ops. To curb vandal . ISm Committee Reports Forum Consultants-Review of mission on Student Forum New Business Mike Winn- Production of Student Forum Handbook decided against Frank DeLorenzo- Report on Student Forum Finances Due to overbudgeting last year, this year the student forum's holding account is very low >Motion by Rossi - All new clubs- recive 50% removed from budgeted amount -Remaining 55 clubs recive 4% form budgeted amount -Classes will be allowed to borrow up to $500 for up to 90 days in lieu of given budget -Freshman class will be given a starting budget - new clubs will be given a chance to meet with finance rep to reallocate their funds - old clubs wiU be given a chance to meet with a finance rep to reallocate their money in fashion .. old clubs wHi have the ·money removed from . their top line accounts - stress an option to clubs that a new budget line be created for emergency purposes only .and that fiscal.conservancy be stressed to clubs - motion passed unanimously Poli. Sci. Professor Nye Resigns Late Unexpected Resignation Raises Questions by Michael DeMicco Contributing Writer During the week of August 18th, Professor Bernadette Nye in- formed Byron Nichols, Head of the Political Science Department, ofherresignation, effective imme- diately. \As a result of her expe- riences last year, she has decided to leave her career in higher edu- cation and collegiate teaching and look for a position in a lobby in Washington DC\ which is what Professor Nichols quoted Nye as saying. There was no compro- mise, she had her mind m1;1de up. Bernadette Nye, an aspiring new professor who gamered high hopes from all of her peers, had just com- pleted a successful year (last year) teaching two sections ofintroduc- tion to American Politics, one sec- tion of Voting Behavior, and an- other section of Women In Poli- tics. In addition to this, she had a full complementof eight thesis stu- dents. When asked for comment, Dean Sorum stated that Nye's sud- den decision had surprised the fac- ulty and that the news was both unexpected and upsetting. Dean Sorum, Dean of Faculty, was notified only a day earlier. \I was incredibly sorry to lose her as a professor\ said Dean Sorum in our phone conversation. \She said she was no longer sure she wanted to teach.\ Everyonewas lefthang• ing, even her eight thesis students for this fall term. On August 25, an emergency meeting was called to accommodate for the increased work load that was so indiscrimi- nately thrown into their laps. The eight thesis students were divided up among the Political Science staff and Professors Fox and Brown stepped up to take the added burden of an extra class on top of their full schedules. Be- cause of their fast action and com- promise, no one was forced to lose classes or to switch terms for their theses. Did Professor Nye' s actions vio- late her contract with the school? The plain and simple answer is yes. Her contract, as with aU faculty, required that the school be notified of any plans to leave for the fol- lowing year by May 1st \I would regard'. the timing of her decision as unprofessional,\ stated Byron Nichols in a private interview. He also said that \ . , . she appeared to have excellent potential as a teacher and as a scholar.\ Accord- ing to Dean Sorum, Nye had thor- oughly enjoyed her colleagu~s and had met a ;great deal of peop.le she liked, including stuclents. Most of the mystery behind her sudden choice was because Professor Nye kept mostly to herself. Professor Fox was able to expound on pos- sible reasons behind her sudden decision. \Clearly from early on, Union was not her fin!!l destination in life.;, According to Fox, she did not enjoy the Upstate New York area. Her original home was At- II;Ulta, Georgia and the quality of life was not as enjoyable. So, what is Nye doing now? Well, she is \definitely living in Washington, DC\ said Professor Fox, but her current profession is still un- known. She left no forwarding informa- tion, leaving her unavailable for comment at press time Finance Fiasco ... Continued From Page 1 1998. There were several factors that contributed to the depletion of the Student Activity budgets. Former Vice President of the Finance Committee kevin Abessi takes \part ofthe responsibility\ for the miscalculations, but he also claims that other factors contributed to the mounting debt. While he admits that \confusion on {his] part\ did not help matters, he cites that the treasurers of the various clubs need to assume some of the blame for not \handling their money in a good manner.\ Abessi states that he attempted, as head of the finance representa- tives, to keep major clubs out of the red by absorbing their debt with the unused funds of other or- ganizations. Yet these smaller, less active clubs were still technically entitled to the money they had been allotted, so they saw no rea- son not to spend it as well. Conse- quently, the money that woullj~ve covered the major clubs who over- extended themselves simply did. 110t exist anym<?re. . , Another drop in the bucket of debt came from the near-dou!:Jlin$ . of certain clubs budgetS; DCW groups receiving ftrst .. time fund- ing, and major clubs get.ti\ng money up front for large event~. Student Activities' budget was over $18;000,. up $8,000 ·from the previous year, and the Concert and Social Committees asked for money in the fall fot events like Springfest to \get it out of the accor<11n2: to Abessi. Abessi also stated that the Fi- nance Committee members had a great deal of difficulty coordinat- ing meetings to vote on proposed budgets. Because they \failed to meet at good times,\ he states, he had to go over more than twenty club budgets on his own. \I felt like people weren't taking it seri- ously,\ he recalled. \It wasn't a priority.\ Qn average, he main- tains that only four out of six mem- bers were present at any single meeting. The Student Forum, under former President Manny Cunanan and Vice President Chris Brantigan, did not accept the first set of budget proposals. Since Abessi had sent out budget re- quests two weeks late and, when he finally did get them back, he had gone over them basically by himself, he was told to take them back. The Finance Committee Was instructed to go back and redo the vote on the budget proposals, since a majority vote and not the Vice President Abessi's approval was required by Student Forum policy to obtain student funds. , Abessi called another meeting, ~d four finance reps showed up . He. claims that one rep wanted to 'leave; and wh~n he trie~ to stop :the individual, (s)he toJd.AbeSsi to· just put him or her down as a \yes\ vote, and left. Abessi said he did reeogitizethis·as\'more illegalpro-. cedures,\ but the financial affairs were in \such a mass hysteriall that they went along with it. In roughly 90 minutes, the meeting was over, though Abessi admits it should have taken about three and a half to .five hours, had they properly debated. The budgets had been margin- ally altered, if altered at all, to be presented once again to the Forum. Brantigan felt that Abessi and the Finance Committee were \not paying attention to where the money was being given. He stated that it looked as if, \Kevin [ Abessi] has printed the same budgets on different paper,\ the second time around. Lee Rose blames the ''vio- lation oftheir own procedures and the non-adherence to their own calendar,\ as one of the primary causes of the debt and discontent- ment. He points out that he warned the Finance Committee members \many times\ against taking such risks and counting on the roll-over to replenish the holding account. Nevertheless, the budgets were passed. In face of the inherited debt. the present Student Forum represen- tatives had to replenish the hold- ing account to its usual level of $25,000 to $35,000. Frank Rossi · proposed that existing clubs give back 4% oftheir allocated funds, and new clubs who aren't sup- p~sed to !lave finds yet anyway, 50%. This puts $2 t ,000 back. Rose wished to congratulate the current Forum representatives for 4 'taking swift and decisive action to solve the problem of the inher- ited debt,\ and was \pleased at the caring debate in which it was dis- cussed.\ ! I pe an pa to1 Tr .ge m1 Pr Pe pc tht thl t01 Ur bo thl A' Jet h pn tel de eit tUJ or pa1 in 1 ab I s pl fo1 fal Stl ch1 to pa1 pr ou COl ab1 in ter stu COl og COl ch; Co pu Th vic pr< Ad cis sol scl de1 tha at· Ril OCt we gol sht

Campus Ne·ws ' \ . '. U::I(C ([mlClHDtClt$tS. September 18, 1997 .·'Pages·-· 14~ Year Old Wei-Jen Yuan PerforiDs At Union College . gram consisted of works from ended with Liszt's Hungarian faculty member of Union. Yuan finalist. As an award for winning by Adrian MacLean Chopin, Debussy, Bach, Rhapsody No. 12. Upon compte- has shared his abilities with Union the Sara Lawrence concerto com- Staff Writer Beethoven, Liszt, and. Granados. tion he leapt out of his seat and and the Performing Arts depart- petition, this summer Yuan made his professional debut with the Westchester philharmonic. There to he drew a standing ovation. Musical prodigy Wei-Jen Yuan performed in a well-attended pi- ano recital at Memorial Chapel this past Saturday. Yuan's refined technique has bqwed to a well deserved stand. ment on prior occasions. He pre- elevated his playing to an effort- ing ovation .. His enthusiasm lifted sented the Capital Region Pre- less and professional level. He the crowd to ask for an encore. miere of Professor Tann's piano performed a dynamic variety of With poise and satisfaction, Yuan duet, \Water's lEdge.\ The community has not seen the last ofWei-Jen Yuan. He will be debuting with the Schenectady Symphony Orchestra on October 16 at Proctor's Theater. The pro- gram will include the Overture of William Tell by Rossini, Persian set by Cowell, Piano Concerto No. 2 in G Minor by Sait-Saens, and Mendelssohn's Symphony No.3. Wei~Jen Yuan, recent valedic- torian of his eighth grade class at Troy's LaSalle Institute, shared·his genius with Union and the com- munity under the sponsorship of Professor Hillary Tann and the Performing Arts Department. His poise and sophistication w<>wed the well-attended recital. The pro- piece~-. all commanding works addressed the crowd and pro- Yuan has become a celebrated that denianded slick, fast finger- ceeded to play \something a little and award-winning performer. In ing. Yuan played four Chopin slower.\ 1996, he won first prize in the New Etudes that required the ability to Behind the greatness of this York State MTNA-Baldwin Piano be expressive while keeping the young pupil is Feroza. LaBonne, Competition. This made him the pace of rigorous and complicated his current teacher for the last five New York State entry into the masterpieces. years. LaBonne, a Schenectady Eastern Division Piano Com,peti- This young talent challenged resident, is a Nationally Certified tion, where he outshone 14 state himself throughout the recital and piano instructor and an adjunct winners and became a nationwide Suicide Bombings Hamper Israeli Term Abroad by Lee Polikoff Contributing Writer The prevalence of terrorism throughout the Middle East has touched home on the campus of Union College. The recent suicide bombings in major urban areas throughout Israel, including Tel Aviv and dents were to leave the United States on September 3, and subse- quently spend two weeks touring Europe, before moving on to Is- rael, to start their studies. How• ever, the morning of their depar- ture, a series of suicide bombing attacks had occurred, in the areas they were to have frequented. Ad- Americans, military personnel in particular. The Hard Rock Cafe is well known as an attraction for Americans. Avoid warmemorials. Avoid places frequented by Brit- ish military personnel.\ - \Airline Offices and syna- gogues are often targets for bombs. Stay clear of them whenever you can.\ Jerusalem, The have stu- prompted dents ten stu- t h a t dents to h a d either re- d e - turn early cided or to not t o participate with- in the term d raw abroad in from Israel the p I a nn e d p r o - for this gram l fall. These . .,.... were students f:\L. . --. angry chose not tl.· ~~- . . ·. at the to take -..,.til...,_ . man- part in the .___U:1iii.~i&;(ftii.f;;;Ui~;;;j~[hii;n\itu ner in Uni011 stay at tile llere. h' h program w IC out of (Dan Queen lTC) t h e concerns for their safety. The program . entailed a term abroad at Ben-Gurion University, in Beer Sheeva, Israel, during fall term 1997. During that time, the students wereto take a variety of courses ranging from desert ecol- ogy to the Hebrew language. Ac- cording to Professor Bill Thomas, chairman of the Terms Abroad Committee, \Nine stu<,lents have pulled out, but ten are still going.''· Thomas cautioned that despite the violence and student concerns, the program has not been canceled. Additionally, he noted thatthe .de,- cision of the students were made solely by· the students, and the schooihad no involvement in the decisimi-m~f.ing process .. \There was ·a general feeling that it was unsafe to be over there at this. time.,:' nQted ju.nior Alissa Riba:· ''The m~st recent b~mbings occurred in' major areas, which were places we were likely to have gone. We were really concerned,\ she added. ditionally, Hamas, the terrorist or- ganization which claimed respon- sibility for the attacks, stated that there would be another series of attacks in 14 days-the day the students were to arrive in Israel. \At that point, some of us started to have second thoughts about the trip. We were going to be at an air- port the da:y they said there was going to be another round of at- tacks. That made us really con- cerned/' Alissa said. · Professor Thomas did note that when students arrive in their new areas, the schools theyatfend pro• vide them with safety lectures about where to go and where not to go during ·their trip. Moreover, in this particular instance, many restrictions were placed on the stu- dents' mobility throughout their environs. Additionally, the Union Terms Abroad Office publishes a sheet of advice tips conceming conduct in foreign countries. Some of the tips include: - \When possible, avoid places numbers of school has handled the repercus- sions. They noted the Ia.ck of are- sidual plan for accommodating the students' housing assignments. The returning students tllought that because oftheir predicament, they would be allowed to live off cam- pus. However, Dean ofResidence Life Trish Williams, did not per- mit the students to live off cam- pus. This decision was subse- quently appealed to both Dean Frederick Alford, and President _Roger Hull, but neither· reversed the previous decision. Thus, the students felt that the administration was \unsympathetic to their pre- dicament.\ . Although experiences such as studying abroad are sllpposed to be enriching experiences, students abro·ad. are not immune to vio- lence. Several years ag(), a student at Brandeis University was killed in a car bombing attack in Israel. Also, over 30 students from Syra- cuse University were killed in the crash of Pan American airlines 103. UNDERGRADUATE STUDY ABROAD ---+--- GUAT BRITAIN AUSTRALIA IRELAND MEW ZEALAND ---•)--- ARGENTINA CHILE COSTA RICA FaU, Spring or FuU Year. Scho~rships Availabk, Study Abroad Informadon Session: Representative: Tom Roberts Date: Thursday, September 18 Location: 1:00- 3:00p.M. Humanities Lounge, 2nd Floor Fur funher informatilm contact rhe Institute for Study Abroad. Butler University~ 4600 Sunscr Avenue, lndiana!Xilis, IN 462081 Tel: 800/8)8-0229 Fax: } 11/940·9104 INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD BUTLER UNIVERSITY

~dn~rtisement · . _-' . ' . · iiftt' (!;~,mnm)il.·usis • September 18 1 1997 • Page 6 I Open for 1 ~-~siness] l1's: yaur brain. fn<r<!dibly malleable. lnii11itely versatile. A\'csomely inventive. At Andersen Consulting, . we w~nt to keep it that way. So -.ve cllallenge it with a stimulating v~ricty of assignments. Develop it with atl <tverage of over 170 houm of advanced trainhtg per year. Reward it wilh advm\ce- ll'I!Cnt. And support it with th.c resources cJf 4~;000 professionals operating across 47 cc.,tltttri$. At Andersen Consulting, we always keep you in mind. !ill J<AA1 Al-.l<\''lllell Coo:11.1liing A•~c.rnm Con:rulting is ltn F.qu.11 Opporllmity t:mrtvr\•r. ANDERSEN CONSULTING Please join I.IS tonight for our information session at 7:30 pm, Old Chapel. All students are welcome. A Comple!e P~ of Prescrtptton Eyeglasses ( $ 1 c;o minimum purchase) Not valid with any other discounts or special offers. Other restrictions apply. Do You Miss Someone? Get Closer, Send Flowers! Frank Gallo & Son Florist Can Send Your_ Flowers .... _. ····- .. •rthl_ enoflt Aaoss Campus or V I~ ..... . .. tl\ Across Country. OR,DER ONLINE http: I /www .frankgaUo. com CALL US TODAY!! 1-800-442-5563 Frank Gallo & Son Florist • 856 Crane Street, Schenectady • 1790 Altamont Avenue, Rotterdam • 123 Saratoga Road, Socha Plaza, Scotia • 19 Clifton Country Road, Village Plaza, Clifton Park (Opening Soon) Website Services By Digicom 888-428-SWEB ... ... iSc_rence ~n,xfn,a/ocrs Part or Full Time Arimators needed to present fun science activities tor elemertary school aged child-en Activities such as lasers, rockets, chemical magic, etc., are conducted in schools during lunch or cfter classes. Need car, leadership experience viU1 kids & high-school science. Complete baining and actiwities provided. Call 373-2864 .. BEST PART-TIME JOB IN TOWN! 'lfyou are energetic, fun loving, responsible, and ; dislike wec;tring suits to work .... you'll want to · finish reading this ad! Our national marketing firm is seeking individuals like you to do part- ; time, local, seasonal promo work for a \Fortune . 500\ client .. , GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO l\1AKE EXTRA MONEY! Call 61()..640-3181 OR Fax Resume To 1610)640-3187 No Ex.:perience Necessary II I ] ( ( j A fi J .. A! slum ours perv riddl ate t COml curn justn tales ofg(J truec w cane as th to a' to it. simi! butt dred: munc vs. b w pres€ ria o bodic en err (mor teria cessf bodic

_·Global News· · · ·m1Ic <!Ioftnrroicusis • September 18, 1'997 • Page 7 -National News Chelsea Clinton Goes to Stanford & Concordy Needs Writers We at the paper are very pleased to have Erika Mancini creating a weekly Chelsea Clinto11 editorial cartoon for the National News section. However to our great dismay there is a shortage ofwriters for the section. If you have an cpinion. or are just interested in writing about the state of the nation, please contact either Frank Rossi or Aileen Quigley at x-6155. The Chelsea . Chronicles \ ... • • At l~st .... i)m on my • ' ' • . . . .. - vu~el fht (healshleisfer b1ad~.r~ • • :t\·Vf·'~ .. ... . . . . . . . . - Science & Technology • The Return of S & T to the Concordy by Victoria Hargreaves Sand T Writer As we wake from our summer slumbers and classes begin again, our shelves fill with books, stress pervades our lives, and the flu riddles our bodies. Many associ- ate the winter months with the common cold; however, colds oc- cur most often during times of ad- justment. Although old wives' tales tell us that a cold is a result of going putside with wet hair, the true culprit is a pillaging virus. We have all heard that people can only get the chicken pox once as the body becomes \immune\ to a virus after it has been exposed to it. The immune system works similarly with the common cold, but unfortunately, there are hun- dreds ofstrains of colds. The im- mune system works on a good guy vs. bad guy basis. When the body recognizes the presence of the bad guys, bacte- ria or viruses, it send in the anti- bodies, the good guys, to slow the enemy's effects. Then the T cells (more good guys) combat_the bac- teria or viruses and, when suc- cessful, kill them. When the anti- bodies act quickly and effectively, the body can avoid cold symptoms all together. However, if the im- mune response is not quick enough, the bad guys win and tbe body gets the cold. Everyone has heard of the ad- age, \You are what you eat\ but researchers have been proving, \You are what you think\. Elinor Levy and Tom Monte of The Ladies' Home Journal say new research has shown th~t \the immune system is affected as much by thoughts, emotions and even the quality of our relation- ships as it is by food.\ Although it is often impossible to get to sleep earlier or to live a completely stress- free life, there are several actions we can perform to relieve some of the tension in o1.1r lives. Stress is one ofthe body's greatest nemeses as it leads to the body's production of hormones which can, in turn, lead to heart disease. Relaxation techniques such as meditation and yoga have been proven to reduce anxiety and, as a result, boost the immune system. A I 0-20 minute daily regimen of meditation can help to lower blood pressure, stabilize the heart rate, and ease muscle strain as well as reduce tile concentration of dan- gerous stress-related hormones. Other successful methods include· breathing exercises, acupressure, and massage therapy. One's mood greatly contributes to his immune response. \A simple smile changes brain chemistry, re- laxes muscles, and boosts immu• nity.\ Clark University research- ers have discovered that, \simply adoptingthe facial expression of a partic11lar mood actually creates that mood.\Luke warm baths are also a Y.~ay to relieve stress as they give tile body an overall calming effect. Exercise not only aids the body, but it also aids the mind. A 20 minute daily exercise routine reduces stress, provides deeper and more restor- ative sleep, and strengthens the heart. A healthy diet is key to. a healthy immune system. Carbo- hydrates lessen stress and allow the mind to con- centrate whereas the consumption of proteins \cause an increase in the ne11rotransmitters that promote alertness, responsiveness, and aggression.\ Surprisingly, one's demeanor affects one's ability to fight off dis- ease. '\The optimist tends to elicit the be~1 from other people and situ• ations, so that optimism becomes a kind of self-fulfilling prophecy.\ Hence, a positive outlook strength,. ens the immune system. Levy and Monte add, \feeling in control of a situation actually boosts the im- mune system, while helplessness lowers resistance.\ Researchers at Duke University recently conducted a survey in which they discovered that \heart- attack victims who have no spouse or close personal friends are three times more likely to have a fatal heart attack within five years than those who have intimate relation- ships.\ Often times, one must take time out to relax. Although these times may seem insignificant, they give the immune system time to recuperate. Re- searchers at the State University of New York Medical School at Stony Brook disc<>vered, \Taking time to enjoy a night out with friends or a favorite dinner can boost your immune response for as long as two days\. Source: \The Medicine Within\ by Elinor Levy and Tom Monte. Ladies' Home Journal. April 1997. p. 54-58. ed. note: Interested in writing for Science and Tecnology? Con- tact us at x-6155 or come to our weekly meeting, tonight at 6:20.

. . l~age 8. · Septc~nber 18, 1997. · illlp.> Qtrlucoruiuusis . . . OP!ED. • • rnzons Seniors And Freshmen: U Do Matter We at The Concordiensis would like to welcome the .. Class of (\ . 2001\ to Union College. Over the past two weeks, you have heard how great this college can be and met a lot of interesting people, and no matter what is written here in the form of advice or anec- dote, you will always want to learn things the bard way. This is after you part wa)'s with your parents and venture into the \wilderness\ of college. Therefore, this editorial-will not focus on what not to do at Union College. ln fact; this editorial will only focus partially on you. Instead, the main focus of this editorial is the seniors, the \Class of 1998.\ To the freshmen, we simply want to remind you that your voice is powerful at this \small liberal arts institution.\ Over the past four years, students helped battle plans to close Greek kitchens (a partial victory) and to keep Achilles Rink on campus (a pending victory ... but for how long?). At the Dean's List Convocation, Dean Bradley Lewis (Dean of Academic Affairs) stated that he found it disappointing that this newspaper does not focus attention on academic issues. There- fore, over the next two weeks, The Concordiensis will be reporting on stories which focus o-n changes in the academic schedule and possibly the academic calendar. Many of these ideas are unpopu- lar, and you will have ample opportunity to voice your opinion (through this newspaper .and beyond). Take the opportunity be- cause you will be affected by any changes made during your fresh- man year. Now, to our elder statesmen, the senior class. We lost a great senior class through gradttation this past June. It was a class full of leaders and doers. Now it is time for the new senior class to take the helm. It is too often the case that Upperclassmen become self- ish and think that their voice means nothing. What we forget is that seniors are the future financial donors to Union College, and the school needs to make sure that a good number of us are satis- fied with our experience. What does this mean for seniors? Attend the meetings which concern the futw-e ofthis institution. Talk to underclassmen. Most of all, however, realize til at your senior year is not all about catch- ing up on the drinking that you missed out on over the last three yeats. For the \Class of 1998\ to leafe a mark on this campus, it must work together, learn together, and teach together for the last year. Whether it is in the Student Forum or out in the middle of West Beach, remember that as seniors, you have the ability to shape lives of underclassmen. Case in point--the numerous events held last year spawned a great deal of interest in student govern- ment by freshmen. Enjoy this year, and try to teach by example. As long as fresh- men and seniors both realize that they matter on this campus, the administration will not try to lead Union College down an unpopu- lar path. They have too much riding on it. So do you. The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady 's- Oldest Newspaper Aileen Quigley, Frank Rossi ED!TOR.>-!N-CH!EF Matt Cohen Amy DiBattista EXECUTIVE EDITORS Christopher Leone MANAGING EDITOR Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITOR Lori Green KimRohback ARTS& ENTERTAINMENT EDITORS Dan Queen Geoff Sullivan SPORTS EDITORS Tatiana Cogevina. Rob Hagopian COMPUTER MANAGERS Michelle Tham FEATURES EDITOR Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST. Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Amy DiBattista COPYEDJTOR Laurie Kirschner • Dave Meguerdichian PHOTO EDITORS PHOTOGRAPHERS: Rick Lederer, Maria Guinle, Dave Braunstein STAFF: Josh Adams, AnjaUBalasingham, Kelen Barr, Jamie Chandler, Shan a Dangelo, Gabriela llory, Jason E.verett, Erika Mancini; Josh Mendelsohn. (r 1 I I I II (I ' 1 A'\\'\; G1tv~. ~ O.K lt's ~it\J of tr,cky ··· ff Y\\' .f-Jk~ J . . ~roui\J fk~ dit<t hedp5 a11,/ Cal\~tr .. ctc~... r~~We, be'/6nl 'tlte. ~lf/lr/o~err a.-./ ~ &f'i)t\eS... • •• Yt~J ,'t} .. ,,f.t IJe/t,~J -Ht~ /c6rf>r-y •••. ~r ... W~':l'f q.toc/ /f> be fltt: ... A Few Questions and Comments by Chris Leone Managing Editor Is this Union? A person goes away for seven months and the campus moves to yet another level. It makes one wonder what Rip Van Winkle felt like when he woke up. Well, since I have spent time at this paper harassing the members of the athletic depart- ments, let me gain some friends in other areas of the campus by writing in the opinions section. When I left college, planning for the next millennium was the hot topic. Now, construction is the thought on everyone's mind. While I think that the Olin build- ing will be a great place for us history and English majors, maybe an engineer can explain the following question. Would it not have saved money (let alone progressed faster) to pour con- crete, rather than build the build- ing brick by brick. I feel like I am living in the world of the Three Little Pigs. I wonder if all the hot air blowing around this campus can topple the building. I realize that all members of the school are not happy about the new building. The construction has undoubtedly caused a great problem for the illustrious mem- bers of Union security. No longer can they just sit in front of the college center and rake in thou- sands of dollars for parking tick- ets. It was only last fall when stu- dents were com .lainin that the . school was ranked 34th in the nation. This year the people com- plain about the 35th rating and how we dropped one disastrous point closer to the brink of nor- mality. Excuse me, but what does it really matter? Last time I checked, tuition did not fluctuate up or down based on the rating numbers. Please stop the whin- ing. Union is what you make out of it, and from where I sit on the .t'hird floor that is not all bad. 'The library is a place where you can curl up and enjoy the won- derful sound of construction. It is coming along nicely and by the time my thesis is due (middle of 20 10), there should be a place to borrow some books. That is, of course, if the library does not sus- pend the use of my card for being overcritical. Rumor has it that a fraternity was brought back on campus. While never either a supporter or detester of Greek politics, it is a good sign and should be men- tiolled. Even the Concordy has gone tllrough remarkable changes. Gone are the writers and people who brought me into this office. As I embarked on my daily jour- liey to the office, I thought, what will the deans office do now that Rawson Thurber has left for greener pastures? Th.e answer came as quickly as the question. They will probably find a new writer to torment I no-minate the coeditor Jon Gashalter. Wh ? Wh not? He is in France. Change is not aJI bad. The of- fice finally resembles a real pa- per,thankstothehard workofthe other quiet editor, Frank Rossi. The revamped editorial staff is a top-flight crew and will be sure to anger most of yol.l at one point this year. If they do not achieve that goal, then they will not have done their jobs. Highlighting the office are new computers for all the sections and a few technological gizmos that most people have no clue how to work. Increased advertising sales make all this spending possible so that the Student Forum should have nothing to audit this term. (Why do I feel that I just jinxed poor Frank, who is the forum VP and suffering a guilty conflict of interests?) If there is a point to all of this rabble it is found in the words I was once told by a notorious graduate of Unio11. ··over four years, everything changes, and everyone, ex.cept for the girls grow old and fat. In the end when everything settles and you look back it will all remain the same. \ 1997 at Union seems to be about renovation, not about a revolutionary movement. God. I hope that is not the case, or there will be nothing good to write. Editors note: Any problems with Mr. Leone's comments should be sent to \leonec2@union.edu.\ We en- courage this practice in d\rder to avoid complaints that c_ltttter the news office. Letters Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be a<ldressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that . concerns the Union College commu11ity. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All leiters must be signed and saved on a high density disk although the author's name need not appear in tlte newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial 8()ard. , Editorials reflect the opinion of a tnajority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns, or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial · Board. The Concordiensis is printed by World Media, 1104 Central Avenue, Albany, NY, 12205. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Servi~e, & King S ndicates. s ( l r il s i:

OP/ED , uiirc O:h~ncnrhicnsis· September 18, 1997 ·Page 9 . ' . ' . by Jonathan Gastbalter Editor-On-Leave Writer Union CoJ:lege has once again been over looked by U.S. News and World Report in its annual rankings of the \Best National Liberal Arts Colleges\ with a 35th_ place ranking (tied with Sarah Lawrence College) out of 4(). Notably, schools that Union claims to be competitive with are. ranked much higher; for ex- ample, Trinity and Hamilton share a ranking of22. We, at The Concordiensis, must ask why Union's poor ranking, and what, if anything, the administration is doing to improve it? It is undeniable that the U.S. News rankings play an important role in determining how a given college or university is viewed by its students and prospective ap- plicants. Likewise, the ranking must have a significant effect upon prospective employers. It is therefore high time that the reasons for Union's dismal show- ing -whatever they may be- were seriously addressed by the admin- istration and we now call upon it to advise us as to what it intends to do to improve Union's future showing. Certainly, as students, we deserve no less. All CON CORDY Staff Members· Must Attend A MANDATORY Meeting Tonight@ 6:20PM In The CONCORDY Office ... AILEEN Is Bringing Cookies!!!! • • znzons What's the Fascination With the British Royalty Anyhow? by Josh Adams Staff Reporter While sitting in the sauna•tike Concordiensis newspaper office at l0:15ptn on Tuesday night, starring at a blank computer screen and trying to decide what on earth to write about; only one thing raceses through my mind: the Britis·h Royalty. Which brings me to my point: what's the American infatuation with England's royal family? Not that lam saying one should not care about world news, yet there is a difference ofbeing infonned and being obsessed. Ever since I can remember, American newstories (at least once or twice a week} always carried stories ·Of the Queen, or one member of her troubled family. I think this whole animosity started in 1981, with the wedding of the late Prin- cess Diana and her husband, Prince Charles. Although I was only 3 at the time, 1 can only re- member not being able to watch my cartoons that day because something else was cutting into them. This may all seem inconsider- ate and disheartfull in the wake ofthe passing of Princess Diana, but that is just the reason why I decided to write this article. It is a horrible thing that. has hap- pened to Diana and her fiance, Dodi al Fiad; yet I see no reason why it should consume the en- tire U.S. media. True,_ the Princess was a humanatarian and kind person, and did many things to help people less fortuante than her, which is comendable. it still doesn't religate theamount of air time and print space that this whole episode has warrented. If it's not enough thatthe European media was up in arms in the week following the week of the acci- dent. I found it very offensive and disrespectful that the American media showed pic- turesnfthe grieving ex-husband and sons <lf the late Princess. I am sure that ifthe roles were re- versed, and the people pointing the came~as had those same lenses directed at them, they would feel a tremendous loss of privacy. This may come as a surprise to m<>st Americans, hut our neighbors across the pond don't give a. tea or crumpet about us! So, V>~hich brings me to my next questi<)ll: Why should we care what llappens to them, when they are not the least interested in the affairs of us 'silly American's'? The answer is simple. Most people's lives in the United States are so unevent- ful tllat they have to look else- where for other forms of per- sonal satisfaction. The people who woke up at 3 a.m. on Sat- urday ruQrning to watch the fu- neral Qf the Princess are the same Jleople who watch soap operas aild eat bon-bon's while sitting on plastic covered circa 1950's furniture. All I am saying to those people reading this with a sour taste iJUheir mouth; \Get a life!\ There are more pressing iss~s . in this C<>Untry that deserve more recog11ition than other happen- ings in a country half way arou11cl the world. It's good to see th:at there is nothing else wrong with American society, that we can go and waste all our time wcHry about the British. There are starving people on the streets of every major city in this coulltry, for god's sake! I may seem Lik:.e a truck-driving redn~ck saying this, although livin.g in America I believe the problems in our own cities are more pressing than the passing ofr()yalty in another country. E-Mail us @union.edu. at Concordy All e-mail submissions must be recieved by 5 PM the Monday before publication and must be less than 500 words. Please see the Opinions policy on the opposite page for more details.

Page 10 · Septeiu.J)er 18, 1997 • ill1 1 c illunmrhicusis . . · · Features· From Candylalid, Kickball and Overalls .•• to Beer, Music, and Nudity? by Michelle Tham Features Editor So, it was a sad attempt at re- capturing my youth. Arms flail- ing, heart beating, legs pumping. Yes, we're talking about \M~iffle ball here. Under the tobin's egg blue of an unassuming sky, I .ran to first base to beat the buz:z {)fa flying white ball. My 12-year old brother laughed as I squeale<l in delight to have made it to the base safely. · stairs. Okay, so maybe there is a bit of exaggeration here, but I never realized how willing par- ents were t() have anyone help unload theircarofthe \o-so-nec- essary\ living room couch, en- tertainment center and 3-tier shoe rack. Orientatil>n is funny on the other side. It was only last year that l stood in uncomfortable awe listening to a Sicilian lady telhne how to be !tot, sexy and safer. This y.ear I actually laughed, girls smiled and said please, they were presented with a clear, plas- tic cup filled with something that was definitely not ginger ale. Boys were men, at least some of them were. And life became a carnival of sorts, filled with daily fashion shows, ridiculous parties and random naked folk running across campus at inane hours of the night. If I had actual'ly been aware of all the spectacularly strange situations I was placed in, I might have enjoyed myself more and laughed at the absurdity of it all . . That's how most of my summer weekends went; pretending to be 12-years old again after working under the stale title offor- mulation chemist on that all too common Monday to Friday shift. I lived in the guise of my own imaginative reality. The \And life became a carnival of sorts, filled with daily fashion shows, ridiculous parties and random nakel folk running across campus at inane hours of the night.\ Far too often I found myself running timidly from discomfort when I should have just been amused. But college life moves fast and fartoo of- ten only falls fondly into place when it's an element ofhindsight. I w<>uld love reality was that l could be a 7th grader if I wanted, and college was a non-thought in my h()ney- suckle-kissed world. Nol!ethe- less, on the rare occasion when I was excited for school, it was for the sheer anticipation of not be- ing a freshman anymore. Ofbe- ing able to walk into a room and know at least a dozen faces, faces that would smile back at rne in understanding~· I was here a week early, t~nder the red-shirted cloak of orienta- tion advisor. An OA who wa11ted to ease those fresh faces into a calm sense of security. It was ac- tually amusing helping everyone move into their new homes. I sup- pose I dido 't expect 6ft. tall, b11rly men to ask me, a 5'2\ weak ex- cuse for a \mover\,. to ;Carry refridgerators up 3 fligllts <Jf Without that little problem of having no idea who anyone was or what on earth I was doing go- ing to colleg-e, oreintation was a really entertaining experience. There is so much uncertainty that comes with tbe title,offresh- man. Oddly, though, I miss the feeling of those first few weeks. And as I watch the freshmen with older eyes, 1 see more confidance in them thaa I ever had, and so they must be even more thrilled than I was tllen. , 't ' • \\The ti'rne freshma-n year slipped by and faded into a mesh of fall term adventures, winter term sorority rush and spring term noncllalance. There were no rules and I lived through my first year in a blur of new experience and excitement over new friends. r discovered in disbelief that if to have tbe chance to find it again. To be a new face with a not-so- faded smile and an innocent heart. My mind grew volumes this past year and I don't know what the know ledge did for me. It was a sweet ride and I think I would gladly trade my newfound famil- iarity for freshman novelty, · That is my advice .. live it up. Laugh, dance, party, smile, play. Youth is a treasure, and in this year you can do it all and even stu&y orr the side .. And in the breezy kiss of summer after . freshman year has passed, you can pretend college is still far away. Swinging a yellow bat un- der the beating sun, with a care- free heart. Finally safe at first base, but always ready to run to second. My Own Private Procrastination The Wonderful Art of Wasting Time by Steve Ayers Contributing Writer It is a little after three on a Monday aftet~?-oon, and I am in the Union campus center, des- perately trying to avoid doing work Specifically, I am tryiing to avoid writing that column iltat I signed up for in The Concordiensis. In the past twenty minutes, I have made two trips to the Dutch Hollow to bu:y hot chocolate and two trips t<> the bookstore, where I bougltt an Ethernet cable and the writing tablet upon which I am writing now. In short, I learned that, consistent with the old adage, there is a close relatio11ship between wasted time and wasted money. As I look around the room, I realize that I am not the only one with a talent for procrastina- tion. At the far end of the ro<>m, a table seats four uppercl~ss­ men. Their textbooks lie open in front of them, but they seem to be averting their eyes from the pages. Anotherex:ample--agirl to my right sits with ber textbook open in front ofhetand a wire-bound notebook beside it. Between the two she has placed her head. Her unkempt hair lies limp across the pages .. From the other end ofthe ro()m, I hear the minute clicks of one of the most powerful t()ols of procrastina- tion--the computer. We are all victims of that overpowering disease-~procras~ tination. Yet, is it fair to characterize procrastination in tltis way? In the past, procrastination has re- ceived a lot of bad press. Common wisdom is that it is a waste of time; but even pro- crastination is not without its ad- vantages. The sleeping beauty to my right (perhaps beauty is notthe riglltword) indeed looks as if she col.lld really use the rest. Even the aforementioned upperclassmen, while ignoring their studies, are developing valuable skills of interpersunal relations which couldhelp them later on in life; and those people who are entranced in front of the computer screens are not just wasting time on the Internet, but are honing their computer skills~ Indeed, procrastination is a valu- able skill for life, as well as a sign of maturity. The older <>ne gets, the more one procrastinates. How else would you explain golfl Well, I would love to elaborate more on this, but I really should be getting to work. Of course, be- fore I do that, I'd like to see ifi can get this Ethernet cable work- ing, so I can hone my computer skills. After that I could probably use a good, long nap. Then I'd really like to pnwtice h<lning my skills in interpersonal relations. However,. ifl can find arty time in my busy schedule, I just might have this column donehy the next issue. ln the meantime,.l'llleave you with this piece of wisdom: never put off till today what you can do tomorrow. Clarity in My Freshman Eyes Leaving Home and Finding a New Life by Reuel Da11iels Contributing Writer I don't know about you, but this past summer was the best one of my life. Having just graduated from high school, I had the whole summertorelishmy freedom and ftee time. I got a decent jobas a waitress, or so I thought. The job turned outto be a huge mistake, so I got another working ina small gour- met food store as a cashier. The job, althougbnottoo exciting, had it's benefits: I worked with some of the nicest people I have ever met. On top of my two jobs, I saw my friends almost every night and tried to see as many of them as possible before the summer was over, and we all went our sepa- rate ways to college. The idea of going separate ways scared most of us, because some of us were leaving for the first time, others were leaving boyfriends and best friends, and some were leaving tile life of fa- . miliarity and security that they had lived witlt all their lives. Dur- ing these l.ast few months to- gether, my friends and I explored several topics of discussion--who our roommates would be, what our rooms would look like, what the food would taste like, and so on and so fourth. My main problem was what the girls dorm was going to be like-- the dorm I had been placed in, not by my choice. We C<lvered areas such as whether to stay with our boyfriends or to abandon any ex- cess baggage that might make our college experience a little bit harder to handle. That topic was one that occupied many eve- nings, as we contemplated what our lives would be like. In the end, most ofus left for college without our previ·ous boyfriends. We left perhaps a littie insecure and perhaps a little alone, but we left with an open mind and with hope that college might be able to satisfy the cravings of our wounded hearts. My friends and I had all chosen colleges in different states aU over the map. My best friend is down in Georgia, and my cousin in Maine. Two of my close friends did in fact go to the same college in the next .town over from where we live, but I was rather happy that I was going to face this new experience on my own, away from an areal was fa- miliar with. Looking at my feelings on that first day of college and on the days previous, I realized I wasn't going to be alone. It seems that everybody else was in the same boat as me: we all were feeling a bit lost and a bit confused, but we all shared this feeling of pure excitement and puresbock as we began our journeys in a new en- vironment we now call a sort of home. Right now, I am happy with my living arrangements, I have a great roommate, a great room, and to tell you the truth, I love living in the all ~iris dorm. The Greeks of Union College are promoting a \Greek Barbecue\ this Saturday at 4:00 PM All Greeks should sign up and show their support for the fraterni- · ties· and sororities of · the Union College Campus. Com~ eat, so- cialize, and just hang out with friends ... maybe even make some new ones!

~eat tires. . '(I[lp~ QI!1lW.,rerien~is • September 18, 1997 · Page ,11. Is Time RelatiVe,. or is My Brain Like-a-Sieve? The Dutchmen Quiz: Getting to Know U!. extraordinarily busy and didn't see me. I stared off into the by Anjali Balasingham Staff Writer by Peter Sorensen Staff Writer Last Friday around six o'clock I felt small,. insignifi- cant, and anonymous. The feeling was strangely reminis- cent of a sunny September afternoo..tLJbre.e... years ago, ac- crowd. Just when I thought I So., here we are, back at Union had recognized a student, I was or here for the first time (for all startled as a pair ofhands reached you freshmen); but do we really in front of me, grabbed several know what Union's all about? hot dogs, and deftly bypassed me, Well, there are varying reports . .I unwittingly knocking some broc- guess you can decide for your- coli into the hot dog tray. J. of . ...selv.es~In.the meantime;havefun- -· tuiifly;- when I stood in the college center course; had -been-uiiwittingly Prith this little quiz. holding up the line-. it was just one of those at an all-cam- pus barbecue, looking fo.r food and friends and finding neither (the school had· yet to discaver the merits of veg- etarian op- \L of course, had been unwittingly holding up the line-~ it was just one of those unfocused, unfocused, myopic days. Oh, well. . These are strange times: aside from knowing ex- actly what I am doing at this school, . a··. , myopzc: · ays. tions, and one week into fi·eshman year, I was still friendless). So, six · days ago I again found myself in the college center, absently aoticing the implacability of it all. I was again standing in a line, wait- ing this time for a freshly microwaved veggie burger (as opposed to freshly charred burger burgers), when I (again) realized that the T.G.I.F. barbecue was packed with faces I had never seen before. I desperately scanned the crowd. Ah!, but things had changed. I knew Tom Ross, the guitar., ist, though he didn't see me. I knew Dawn, who works at Dutch Hollow, but she was and being fairly content to hole up in the books for a days on end, I can't really find much evidence that three years of col- lege have passed. I really shouldn't dwell on that thought-. it invariably leads to disbelief and daze. On the other ha,nd, I sup- pose I should feel over- whelmed at se~ching. Buendia finally concluded that time, in effect, does not pass, and promptly went insane. Kind family that he has, they. tied him to the trunk of the chest- nut tree and mostly forgot about him. Perhaps I should worry; but on the other hand, at least I know my destiny (and I won't need job placement to get there). Riding the Pine by Eugene Schultz Contributing Writer Once again the grounds of Union Colh::g~ are swarming with the presence and the sounds of students. The new school year has started. To all those new students who are here, I bid thee welcome. To returning friends and others, welcome back. Since this column will hopefully change into something people might want to read, I want to take this, the first issue, to ramble on for a bit. (Ask any one who knows me, and he or she will tell you that I am very good at rambling on for hours on end without saying anything of substance, much as I am doing here.) Here are two observations from the first week at Union College. What dld you miss most about Union over the summer? a)Your8:40. b)Opaque tap water. c) The intoxicating aroma emanating from the West Dining Hall. What makes Union unique? a)No other college stu- dents know the Greek alpha- bet better than the English one. b)What other institution would honor a U.S. presi- dent by naming a bar after him? c) We're funded in part by All.bl()user-Husch. What'~ tll.e best event going on at UILi()n 1 ar:rile annual pilgrimage to J. Crew headquarters in Virg.inia. _bj'\{he rallies held by · - - ''Citizens for a Right-Wing Amedca.\ c)The campus-wide Tu<!s:day nightcontest: \De- term illing tbe Identities of Arunymous 'Love Lines' Callers.\ What cotuse would be the most PQt-o.lar that Union could offer? ajManagement 101: H(}w-you can pay $29,000 a year 1o go to school and still not i>e able to find .paper towe.-ls in your bathroom. b~lli()chem 101: The Ha11gover. c~·:Sociology I 0 l: The value of sitting in the cam- pus .ce11ter and staring at passers-by unHI your eye- balls drop out of their sock- ets. Which slogan best character- izes Union's philosophy? a) Union CoJiege: Wel- come to the Real World. b)Uriion College: Educa- tion First. c)Union College: It's not how much money you have or what clothes you wear that matters, it's what's on the inside that counts. lf you're a freshman, what factor made you decide to come to Union? a)The location in Schenectady, Cultural Mecca of the Occident. b) The fair price. c)The ethnic and socio- economic diversity of the student body. d) it's just like your high school. Only smaller. e) Berkeley's just too con- servative. BetJumy Cartledge ln-line skater. T-hall slugger. Dru11k driving victim. january 18, 1994 Cheraw, SC 1) Does Union College have a parrot problem in addition to its squirrel infestation? For the first three days that I was back all I could here was \How was yo~r sum- mer? How was your summer?\ over and over again. Now I know that I was mostly likely the biggest rea- son for this, seeing that I am dull and uncreative, but please, people--we go to a top rated school. Well, not top-25 rated, but close enough. As Professor Burke al- ways reminds his classes, we are some of the brightest students in the country. We must be able to put our heads together and come up with a new way to greet each other after long absences. I mean, it is only nine weeks until Thanksgiving break, and then what? 2) My second observation deals with the class of 2001. If you don't stop someone from cbi:vi.ng drunk, who will? Do whaLever it takes. As I was a freshman myself last year, I might be to close to the situation, but there is no way in the world that my class (the class of2000) looked as clueless _ as this bunch. Well, that is it from down here on the bench. I promise future ar- ticles will be written by a professional. Stay tuned for. more. FRIENDS DON'T Lrr FRIE.NDS DRIVE DRUNK. 0 II$ hes dmlntnl~

lessons te start the- Lesson # 1- Hang it or fold it SPack Han~ • A,•ailitblt in6 ook!l'fl :\2 Qi. S-.alt1\ Jl01l •200'74!:1 Lesson #4- Just in case you make a mistake 10 (;aJJI)n (;rand (:an •2!11Y1.11\2 S•~~r-m• CAu •2{*4!il:\ Lesson #6- Decorate •21%715 sst)7 Start!Pv Ooor Mirrnt ·J4\x.:;rr ·;'JOIW.JRlll 73 Lesson #2~ Be on time 16\ Sunbtnt Wd (look ll\ Avanti Wall etl)ek. •2051365 •205138 I Lesson #7 -.Don\t strain your eyes Flutlrl'!lffiflf J)pjjk l..arnr• :\OW llaln~~tt l),.flk 1~'\1' •IU:wk •:ifiSIR'il •Stt'd •Adjt14lllble ~tttlk .... %5.S.il Lesson #3 .. Store it neatly 2 $500 ·for St~CratM ~~1}177~ $4 99 each Stacldt1g BiN ·2&16407fi51'J3 Lesson #5- Don't use trash hags use these ... Squlll\e {1J1:nl B!Ulk .. t Rei. Laumlry llanlplll' •2ornlll0 ·2~ Lesson #8-Save space & money !. r~ .. : .., I ~ Ymw (:boioo Shel~ (lnits :1 Slxolf •2007289/ 4 S~f (:.,rnw •20!i/2(~'H ·1 Sb..Jf t 'tility •2t1)7271 T H E H 0 M E D E S I G N M A ·R K E T Northway Exit 6 to Latltam Farms Shopping Center. .)7() TI'(Jy-Schr.nC(~tafly Hoad.I.atham. l\(!w York t2110 7H2-1800 Monday·Saturday 9·9, Sunday 9·7 Prit~es goc>tJ thru Sept. J ~ 1997.

Features · · . , · · . illlr~ <!Ioncpri'rhm~i~ • S~ptemher 18, 1997\ Page 13. ' . ' ' Laughter, Coincidence, and Common Ground by Amy DiBattista · Copy editor It's aU pretty clear now. It's pretty clear that I have missed out on a lot of opportunities and a lot of people because I have been too shy. I mean, it has taken me until now, my senior year, to be com- pletely .comfortable walking through the college center or into a classroom. Strange? You bet. Even stranger is that if you were to ask any oftny friends ifl am a shy person, they would look at you as if you were on crack. These people. my friends, have become part of my soul, and it only took them three years. Can there be anything more sub- limely beautiful? The shyness of which I spoke above has ben- efited me to some extent, you see: it has turned me towards those people who made me feel imme- <liately comfortable in their pres- ence. I would swear thatthese people are magic, if such a statement would not qualify me for a real- ity check. As one friend put it freshman year, \I'm in your head.\ They are, aren't they? Think about it. How many simi- lar thoughts, morals, and opin- ions do you share with your clos- est friends? Probably lots. Have you ever experienced that click that happens when you m.eet someone who you just know will be your friend for a long, long time? It feels as if that person just ()pened the sunroof. That is how it feels to me. So, this shy person has found friends for life at Union. They know as well as I do how much I love and value them. However, sometimes I think that they found me. By now I do not remember clearly the circumstances and set- tings in which I met all of them, but something tells me that if I hadn't met people with an un- canny ability to crack shells, I wouldn't know them. at all. Do yQu see what I am saying here? Maybe I should go back a bit and recount what brought this on. Here goes. I met a lot of people sopho- more year, by far more than I met in my freshman year. I think this was the catalyst. I realized that people who may not become your best friends can extend their own sort.of joy. I learned how to make small talk, and I was pleasantly surprised at how often this small talk led to big talk-aU because I was able to forget that I was shy DJAHMBI AND MOHMAR We do it all ... andwe're cheap!!! Who are we? We are two se- niors ... that's all the info you'll get. Our goal is to stir the martini that is Union College. In this col- umn we will bytch, discuss, chat, dish out advice, ponder, and make ourselves available to you, the martini, Union College, and pro- vide aU the olives you could pos- sibly desire. For those of you who are hungover (or still drunk), you may not have noticed that these are not our teal names ... 4uh! Our personal Obi-Wan Kenobi has recommended, like Princess Leia, that we remain safely anonymous and not divulge our identities, both for our safety and yours. Therefore, feel free to drop letters, comments and questions to the Concordy office or in the Djahmbi and Mohmar letter-hole at the Info desk. Knock your- selves out, and use any name you wish. Just remember, we don't know who you are, and you have no clue who we are. Let the games begin!!! So, we're back at Union ... lovely Union .... Exactly how does one know that they are back at this fine institution? The first clue--the Schenectady national anthem (D & M's note: That would be any of the myriad emergency vehicles transporting you to and from the hospital). The second clue--you walk into West dining, you shovel what your senses tell you is fish onto yollr ,plate, and lo and behold, the first bite tastes like Oscar Meyer Ball Park Franks ... Yummy!.!! The 1hird clue--you walk downthehall <lf any dorm and have this funny feeling, like you're in the third row at a Dave Matthews concert. Rock on man!!! The fourth clue- -you're in the men's room in the ~earner and there's a soiled C<>PY ()f the adult. insert from the Metro land on the floor in the stall. The fifth clue--your O.A. tries to ,pick you up, but wait, you're a junior. What are you doing at ()rientation, you scammer? The sixth and final clue (that we could think of)--it's Thtusday, you're looking for more intellec- tual stimulation than can be pro- vided by USA Today's Life sec- tion, but instead you pick up a Concordy .and are actually taking th.e time to read this column. Whatcha think? Are we display- ing intellect? We really wanna :know! You thought we were done didn'tyou? Sorry. There'smore. Djahmbi and Mohmar would like to personally send a warm thank you to the Office of Computer Services for making the ResNet registration and installation expe- . ' ri.ence one of the largest wastes of time in Union College's history (D & M's note: We were here when they fixed up the only 16-sided building in the northern hemi- sphere). Is my computer supposed to smoke like that? Also, how the hell ·can anyone, especially fresh- men, be trusted to tear open the back of their thousand dollar gift from Mummy and Poppy to install the friggin' ethernet carq (D & . M's note: We have trou~ie turn-. ing on the computer. What ex- actly is a \Subnet Mask\? An- swers?)? This marks the end of the inau- gural D & M column. Remem- ber, we are doing this for our own personal amusement. If you are amused as well, that's a bonus ... and we like you a lot. On the flip side, if you've got a problem with D & M, or maybe just a question that has been irk- ing you, screw Dear freakin' Abby!!! We're in the house and we see all, we know all, and we smell all. Don't leave us to our own devices. All letters are wel- come and will possibly be ad- dressed in future editions of D & M. In the great words of the im- mortal Billy Dee Williams, \That's smooth.\ Now, pass the Colt 45 and write us some letters . Babysitter Needed!!! Niskayuna Couple Seeks Female College Student to Watch Two Small Children, One·Night Per Week 377-1331 Ask For Dave '' ..... . for a minute and focus on some- thing funny or intelligent .or shocking that an acquaintance bad to say. I came back to school my jun- ior year with a much more open mind and a clear ideal. I decided that there must he something in everyone that is interesting. I don't care who one is or how calm ofa life one has led-\Cv- eryone has .stories. I took so many people into my mind that year that my head swam, and I don't think anyone realized it except forme. I have even found a few more trusted close ones. I know that I have set myself up for the pain that comes and goes when people come and go-it breaks rnY heart when someone who made me laugh leaves my life in the natural course of months or years-but I have to have more. I guess I am addicted to laughter and co- il)cidence and common ground. So, here I am, with one m<Jre year to do this-here, anyway. If I could change one thing about the beginning of my college ex- perience, it would be to have re- alized how similar we all are. I know that the freshmen probably want no more advice, but ifl may suggest something ... please be aware that friendship comes in many different degrees. All kinds are worth it, as long as they bring you joy. In fact, there are few things moreworth itthan fmding people who make you feel good-· they · will be your.audienct:,y()ur coun- selors, the ones who live yollr achievements with you, and yo11r relief. There is nothing compa- rable and nothing sweeter. A Touch of Sarcasm Some pointless observations by David Kay Contributing Writer In the aftermath of Mother Theresa's death, we have to ask ourselves, are people going to really care as much as when Prin- cess Diana died? After all, the woman was almost 90-years-old and had more wrinkles on her face than Roseanne Barr has on her butt. I don't think that you'll see thousands of people waiting in line to mourn her body and hand over their hard earned money to her charities. Just like that R.E.M. song goes, \. . . every- body dies ... sometimes.\ It's evident that her time has come and that she lived a long life and died naturally. Sure, Mother Theresa may have been a living saint, but she . was no blond beauty, and maybe I'm wrong, but I don't think she ever spent a day on the cover of a controversial tabloid. She can be glad that she never had to worry about the paparazzi follow- ing her around. Princess Diana's people say that she died because of the paparazzi, bllt it's a lot easier when the driver has a blood al- cohol level higher as high as if he had spent the night at a Union frat party. Who does that guy think he is, anyway? Being a freshman, I guess get- ting adjusted to college life has been a bit strange. I found out why Union is known. as \The Motber of All Fraternities.\ When I heard that Union was a big drinking school, I guess it was no lie. Seeing one of the guys on my floor kneeling over the toilet last weekend, I realized how our school got the reputation. So many people say that they puke over the food, but I'm not complaining. Maybe it's because all the cooks are mean and scary looking, though. Well, until next time, feedback is always wel- come. Comments? Questions? Write to David Kay, Box #1 058.

Page 14 • September 18; 1997 • llfftt' (/faJU:an)fl•zzsis - . . Ath·crtisemcnts OCEAN BUFFJ;T Join. oi.u- Coffee Club at Dutch Hollow Receive a FREE cup of c after purc~iilfft ·~~~:e ·' '\Jt'-''~. \{)' )< ···: .. ,,.,'k\'~w~··~~(}.\'<.>,«\' ' ''~\,. , . :\-~~. .;·.¢·· ~1.;1;\~ '\•~13~~ .. ~~~t·--~ : ~~ '\< \'-o• ••:f!: 1 t;~.',;-,,._~i'iM~\~- · ~,,, 1 ,.\\\\''~ ~~: ···' • .• ' • .. ' f'ilili\\<':i-::_ \\\~l)'•J\'\\'·'.,. \:;:':-:: ... \'-• ..... ~, ...... d\;;: Video Games, DJ Tapes, LPs, 12\ Singles., and More ... . .....,. __ . - - - - . BUY - SELL- TRADE ~~TJ.: ·. f ;Jf i:J.n. J lU v1ng- . llianesburg Skydiving 27 Years in Busi1ess [5181 895-8110 15 Min1tes From ~mpus [Down Route 71 Open Seven Days College Rep Wanted!! COME INTO MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! Schenectady - 1041 State Street - 382-5776 . . ONEHOun· $$$ Part-Ti111e Help Neetled! $$$ MOTOPHOTO

EAT AT l5RUE66ER'S ANU you'RE To ~I. CoNStVEI<EV SoMtWl-\AT ~RAIN'Y. · AFTER ALL you'VE 60i ro BE PRETTY SAVVYToA\JVREOATE THE ... ~.......,. ...... • WHOLESOME 600VNESS oF FRESH, HOT ~MELS. AND IT 1 S COMMON \<NoWLEVGE you CAN'T GET AN\f FRESHER T~ BRUE66ER'S. TO CELEBRATE youR llETURN To \NtGHEREUV~T!oN\, . BRUEGGER'S IS OfFERING. vou A GREAT DEAL ON THE \3EST BRAIN FOOV! INTERNET ACCESS $19.95/ per mt~nth Includes~ On·limit~d Internet Ac(ess. E-Mait, and 1 {) Megs of Web Spac+! ----r~Rc~s~-~N-~-;~-;~fijt\vAH~~-1iiAVEL-~u6s·~~R-;NLY-$t.4~-ANU ___ M CHAT FTP NEWS www E-MAIL 6ET A FREE CREAM CNEESE SANDWICH! jUST BRtN6 THIS coupoN INTo /J.NV l3J?UEti.<1EI?'S IN AL~. ROO-tESTER oR SYRACuSE. RGAIN Seulpture Media · SOF1WARE WEB SPACE IRC CALL NOW ( 518)453-1111 ...__ -··- S .& CAS Buy; ··sen, Tr~de Hard to find titles ~ ~ ............. 1- •••••••••••• $7.99 ea .. or has gready expanded its used book section \- ......... ~: ........... $2..99 ea. or se·lec:~t CDs ••••••• ~~~;·.;·'$·3 ea. or . · 950 State St., Schenectady • (518) 381-9183 Great bargains on l,OOO's ofbooks on the arts, cultures, environment, tembooks, and for the general reader. We are cu\ently selling a large lil11'tll'Y of African, African-American, and Social Sdtnces booAs. Some hooks al'e priced. Most seU at flat rates: Hard Cover· $2.00 0 trade Paperblck- $1.00 0 Popular Paperback- 50¢ lJuy three, get one free/ Open 9:30·5:00pm Wed.·Soo., open till 9:00pm. 011 Thurs., closed Mon., Tues. 2 blocks west of Route 146. ln the same building as the \Vhiteltoose Flea Market, with over 50 other interestimg shops. ... ..,._... VIDEOS ......... 2 for $10 . '

\What do you get for the man whohas everything?\ The answer lies in what we have deemed one of the best films to hit the screen this season. Arriving after the sum- mer onslaught of mindless Holly- wood blockbusters, The Game of- fers a refreshing break from inane plots and billion dollar special ef- fects. The plot revolves around Nicho- las Van Orton, played by Michael Douglas, an extremely wealthy yet emotionally void investment banker. By immersing himself in his work, Van Orton has effectively detached himself from those he cares about and has become a shell of the man he used to be. He en- joys the finer things in life, while relishing the fact that he has com- plete contml of everything and ev- eryone around him. All of this changes, however, when his brother Conrad (Sean Penn) gives him a birthday present he will never forget--an invitation to join a rec- reational service that guarantees to provide whatever is missing from his life. Without knowing where or when the game will begin, a tale of suspense and deceit ensues. Suddenly, as people manipulate.his life and try to kill him, the founda- tion of Van Orton's world begins to crumble. As everything he once knew falls apart, the game sends him spiraling into a world of chaos where nothing is what it seems. Director David Fincher, widely known for the suspense thriller Seven, once again brings his gritty style to the big screen. While not as dark and foreboding as Seven, Fincher expertly depicts how lonely the world can become to someone who turns his back on society. From Van Orton's dark and sterile office to his isolated man• sion, the director makes it pain- fully obvious that despite being surrounded by people all day. this man lives in solitude. Similar to Seven, Fincher's solemn and sinis- ter inotifis supported by excellent performances from the actors in- volved. Douglas' portrayal is con- vincingly cold and could easily be characterized as a modern day Scrooge. At the same time, how- Shakespeare at the Yulman by Rebecca Thyresson Contributing Writer William Lacey will be returning to Unien this November to host a Shakespeare workshop. Professor Lacey has acted and or directed for various New England Theater groups and television, such as the Boston Shakespeare Company, Poets Theater, Piccadily Playhouse, Boston Drama Quintet, WGBH and WHDH Television, the Concert Network and the Weston Play- house in Vermont. He performed with Boston's Theater Works in staged readings of numerous Greek plays, including Antigone, Oedi- pus Rex, and Agamemnon. Some of Professor Lacey's most recent roles include Henry James in Irwin Palley's New Play, and Eliphalet Nott, the legendary 18th-century inventor, preacher, and college president in a drama commissioned for Union College's bicentennial. Harvard's Loeb Drama Center, the Tanglewood Institute, the Young Life Institute in Colorado, and our very own Yulman Theater. He is cochair of the Advisory Board of Carnegie Mellon's Drama Depart- ment and a consultant to the Ameri- can College of Greece in Athens. Throughout his artistic career, William Lacey has been a long standing member of the Boston University Faculty. Having di- rected over 50 productions, Lacey has a portfolio that ranges from Aeschylus to Pinter, in both pro- fessional and university theaters. Lacey has also appeared as an ac- tor or narrator for programs of the Handel and Haydn Society, the Boston University Symphony, and Greek National Theater. Oravec & Lodge at the Movies ever, he expertly reveals how Van Orton changes as his world is turned upside down and he is faced with the realization of the man he has become. Sean Penn, playing Van Orton's fun-loving younger brother and the outcast ofthe fam- ily, further confuses us as the in- stigator of The Game. With his troubled past and seeming para- noia, motives are lost in the whirlm wind ofplot twists and action. In a style similar to The Usual Suspects, the plot takes so many twists and turns that it wiU keep you guessing from the opening scenes to the closing credits. This was the best movie we have seen all summer, outshining blockbust- ers such as Conspiracy Theory and Air Force One. Unlikethesefilms, The Game intricately combines a sophisticated plot with gripping action and suspense. So hit the bathroom beforehand and don't drink that huge soda, because this is one movie where you won't want to miss a minute. Rating: Full Price Movie reviewers have different systems of rating ·fllms. These range from thumbs, to stars, to geo- metric shapes. However, each of these are ambiguous in telling the moviegoer the movie's worth. Ever mindful of the college student's lim- ited we have de- vised a system that will indicate what we would pay to see the movie. So, without further ado, here is the system we will be using to rate the films we see: Full Pr,ice: This is our version of a must-see, four-star movie. As the closing credits scroll across the Screen, th.ere will he no dbubtthat the $8:00 you dished out was well spent. Matinee Price: This rating indi~ cates that it was a decent fHm, but not worth the $8.00 you would haveto pay to see itinthe evening. Basically, this type offilin is a.great Saturday or Sunday afternoon flick. The $3.00 you save can be put towards a down payment on a small popcorn. Rent It: A film that receives this rating is an okay film, hut would not be worth paying the ·matinee price to see. Plus, you get to fast- forward through the boring parts. Late Night TV: This means that this is something that you would enjoy at 3 a.m.,. when there was nothing else to do on campus. l would rather have a ••. : Basi- cally, this ·is our equivalent of no stars. This type of movie is not even wort:lJ thinking about watch- ing. Fill in the blank yourself. In order to give· you a taste of how our . will here is a ies that we saw. F~ce/Off: Nicholas Cage and John Travolta star in this action packed thriller about a cop and a terrorist who trade faces. Ratb~g: Full Price Contact: Jodi Foster portrays a radio astronomer who discovers an encoded message from the Vegan System. Rating: Full Price AirForceOqe: Action Hero President, Harrison Ford, takes on a team of terrorists who have hijacked Air Force One. Rat- ing: Matinee Price Men ln. Black: Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones save the earth fram aliens Rating: Matinee Price Cop Lamd: Sylvester Stallone is a sheriff in a New Jersey town where all the residents are New York City cops. Rating: Matinee Price Gl Jane: Demi More attempts to become a Navy Seal. Rating: Matinee Price Conspiracy Theory: Mel Gibs<m' s outrageous theories about government conspiracies put his life in danger. ~ting: Rent It Mimic: Bugs that look like h-u- mans terrorize the city. Rating: Rent It Spawn: The comic book charac- ter comes to life on the big screen. Rating: Rent It Batman and Robin: The Caped Crusader and the Boy wonder team up with Bat Girl to save Gotham City from Freeze, Poison Ivy, and Bane. Rating: I would J.'ather have a root canal. There's a Friendly Place for Freshmen by Lori Greene Staff Writer On Monday, September 15, the Yulman Theater, a building often shunned and ignored by freshmen, opened its doors for its third an- nual Open House, an event which began three years ago with the opening of the new Yulman The- ater. As the theater is not on the typical path of most students, the theater department wanted an ex- citing way to bring students into the building. Cosponsored by Mountebanks and the Union College theater de- partment, the event was an attempt to introduce freshmen to the the- ater faculty, view the facilities (in- cluding the main stage space, actor's studio, green room and dressing rooms), and become aware of all the theater has to offer. Stu- dents had the opportunity to meet Theater Director William Finlay, Technical Director John Miller, De- signer Charles Steckler, and Visit- ing Professor Sarah Chazen. Professor Chazen played a cru- cial role in getting students excited for this year's theater lineup, which begins with her directing Chekov' s \The Seagull,\ a piece to be per- formed in period style. In order to acquaint students witll Chekov's dark hum<Jrist style, Chazen di- rected a staged Teading of Chekov's <>ne-act \The Proposal.\ Alex Beckers '98, Ari Gottlieb '99, and Lori Greene '00 vtorked with Chazen on this hysterical story about a man who tries to propose to a landowner's daughter butcan- not get past his own ailments to do so. Alse> announced was the productions forwint<~rtenn--\Two Gentlemen of Verona,\ directed by Shakespeare expert William Lacey, and spring term's production of \Montsarat a musical, directed by WitHam Finlay. Mountebanks co-moderators Alex Beckers '98 and Emily Schwartz '98 announced Mountebanks plans for this term. Influenced by faculty advisor Bill Finlay, plans are in the makings for a late nigh.t cabaret to follow the Friday evening performances of \The Seagull\ If these are successful, Moun- tebanks plans on making a tradi- tion out of the late-night cabarets and hosting them each term. Any student interested in performing in either of the cabaret's listed for Oc- tober 3 l and November 7 should contact Sarah Friedman, vice mod- meetings are open to all stu,deJltsl and faculty. As many students find the ater an intimidating or place, Monday's Open House a welcome way to show studeJmt that everyone can be involved some aspect of theater, be it . formance or technical aspects Miller and Steckler were on to emphasize the importance technical theater, a division ater that often gets Students interested in Iighti stage management, stage sound, costllmes, or .props sh see Professor Miller or Pro1tessorJ Steckler in tlleir offices in The event proved to be a :su''\c:~:s; 1 and as Gina Lasorsa '00 put it, have always loved theater didn't know it was so easy to involved here at Union!\ Though William Lacey has acted with a wide variety of drama guilds, he specializes in the performance of Shakespeare and other classi- cal texts. His institutional teach- ings spread across the globe. Lacey has 6een a guest master teacher at Drama Studio/ London, Trinity College in Dublin, Professor Lacey is excited to be returning to Union College. This workshop will focus primarily on the art of understanding Shakespeare in performance. These workshops will take place November 7 at 3-5 PM and Novem- ber 8 at 12-3 PM in the Yulman The- ater. Interested students and teach- ers of Shakespeare, in either the performing or directing aspects, are encouraged to attend. For more information call Prof. Finlay at the YulmanTheater,extension6475. 1----------------------------------------___. OPTIONS '97 ·CAREER FESTIVAL Attend the Annual Career Festival Thurs., Sept. 25th from 12·4 pm in the Field House rain or shine. More employers and graduate schools hav.e been added. Internship, full-time and summer options. are available.

''What do you get for the man \.\ho has eve!) thing'?\ The answer lies in what we lutvc deemed one of the best films to hit the screen this season. Arriving alter the sum- mer onslaught of mindless flolly- \\OOd blockbusters, !fr(' (lame of- fers a refreshing break from inane plots and billion dDIIar special ef- fects. The plot revolves around Nicho- las Van Orton, played by 1\lichael Douglas. an extremely wealthy yet emotionally void investment hanker. By immersing. himself in his work. \'an Orton has etlectiwly detached himself from those he cares about and has bewmc a shell of the man lw used to he. lie en- joys the finer things in life. \\hile relishing the fact that he has com- plete control of ev cr) thing and e\- cryone around him. All of this changes, however. when his brother Conrad 1 Scan Penn) gives him a birthda) present he \\iII never fi.Jrget--an imitation to join a rec- r<.:ational st.:r\'icc that guarantees to pro\ ide \\hatevcr is missing from his life. \Vithout knov.i where or when the game will begin, a tale of suspense and deceit ensues. Suddenly, as people manipulate his life and try to kill him, thefounda- tion of Van Orton's world begins to crumble. As everything he once kne\\ falls apart, the game sends him spiraling into a world of chaos where nothing is what it seems. Director David Fincher, widely known for the suspense thriller .<.,·f!l\en. once again brings his gritty style to the big screen. While not as dark and foreboding as .\'et·cn. Fincher expertly depicts how lonely the \\orld can become to someone \\ho turns his back on >ocict}. hom \\an Orton's dark and -;tenk office to his isolated man- ~ion. the director makes it pain- fully ub\ inus that despite being surrounded h~ pe,1plc all day, this rnan lives in solitude. Similar to .\\e1·en Fincher's solemn and sinis- ter motif is supported by excellent performances from the actors in- volved. Douglas' portrayal is con- vincingly cold and could easily be d1ara~:terited as a modern day Scrooge. At the same time. how- Oravec & Lodge at the Movies ever. he expertly reveals hovv \\an Orton changes as his world is turned upside dovvn and he is faced v'vith the realization of the man he has become. Scan Penn, playing Van Orton's fun-loving younger brother and the outcast of the fam- ily, further confuses us as the in- stigator of !he Cmm. With his troubled past and seeming para- noia, motives are lost in the whirl- wind of plot twists and action. In a style similar to !he l ·sua/ .\·u.-;pec/s, the plot takes so many twists and turns that it will keep you guessing from the opening scenes to the closing credits. This was the best movie we have seen all summer, outshining blockbust- ers such as ( 'unspirucy Theory and .lw f·mn· Om:. Unlike these films, Fir£' ( iame intricately combines a sophisticated plot with gripping action and suspense. So hit the hathroom hcforehand and don't drink that huge soda, because this is one movie where you won't want to miss a minute. Rating: Full Price \lovie rcvie\\ers have different systems of rating films. These range from thumbs. to stars, to geo- metric shapes. However, each of these are ambiguous in telling the moviegoer the movie's worth. Ever mindful of the college student's lim- ited spending money. we have de- v1sed a system that will indicate \\hat we would pay to see the movie. So, without further ado, here is the system we will be using to rate the fil·ms we see: l'ull Price: This is our version of a must-see, four-star movie. As the closing credits scroll across the screen, there will be no doubt that the $8.00 you dished out was well spent. !\'Ia ti11ee Price: This rating indi- cates that it was a decent film, but not worth the $8.00 you would have to pay to see it in the evening. Basically, this type of film is a great Saturday or Sunday afternoon flick. The $3.00 you save can be put towards a down payment on a small popcorn. Rent It: A film that receives this rating is an okay film, but would not be worth paying the matinee price to see. Plus, you get to fast- forward through the boring parts. Late Night TV: This means that this is something that you would enjoy at 3 a.m., when there was nothing else to do on campus. I would rather have a ... : Basi- cally, this is our equivalent of no stars. This type of movie is not even worth thinking about watch- ing. Fill in the blank yourself In order to give you a taste of how our system will work, here is a rev ies that we saw. Face/Off: Nicholas Cage and John Travolta star in this action packed thriller ilbout a cop and a terrorist who tra~l.! faces. Rating: FuH Price Contact: Jodi F ostcr portrays a radio astronomer \'vho discovers an encoded message from the Vegan System. Rating: full Price Air Force 011e: A r..: t i o n Hero Preside11t. Harrison Ford, takes on a team of terrorists who have hijacked Air Force One. Rat- ing: Matinee Price Men In Black: Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones save the earth from aliens Rating: Matinee Price Cop Land: Sy Ivester Stallone is a sheriff in a New Jersey town where all the residents are New York City cops. Rating: Matinee Price Gl Jane: D~mi More attempts to become a Navy Seal. Rating: Matinee Price Conspirac)\ Tileory: Mel Gibson's outrageous theories about government conspiracies put his life in danger. Rating: Rent It Mimic: Bugs that look like hu- mans terrorize the city. Rating: Rent It Spawn: The comic book charac- ter comes to life on the big screen. Rating: Rent It Batman and Robin: The Caped Crusader and the Boy wonder team up vvith Bat Girl to save Gotham City from Freez:e, Poison Ivy, and Bane. Rating: I W(]Uld rather have a root canal. Shakespeare at the Yulman There's a Friendly Place for Freshmen bJ Rebecca Thyresson Contributin~t Jf'riter ----- william Lacey will be returning to L'nion this November to host a Shakespeare workshop. Professor Lacey has acted and or directed for various New England Theater groups and television. such as the Boston Shakespeare Company, Poets Theater, Piccadily Playhouse, Boston Drama Quintet, WGBH and WHDH Television, the Concert Network and the Weston Play- house in Vermont. He performed with Boston's Theater Works in staged readings of numerous Greek plays, including Antigone. Oedi- J?Il.l' Rex, and Agamemnon Some of Professor Lacey's most recent roles include Henry James in Irwin Palley's .\\e11 !'lay. and Eliphalet \/ott, the legendary 18th-century inventor, preacher, and college president in a drama commissioned for Union College's bicentennial. Though William Lacey has acted with a wide variety of drama guilds, he specializes in the performance of Shakespeare and other classi- cal texts. His institutional teach- ings spread across the globe. Lacey has been a guest master teacher at Drama Studio/ London. Trinity College in Dublin, Harvard's Loeb Drama Center. the Tanglewood Institute. the 'r\oung Life Institute in Colorado, and our by Lori Greene Staff Writer very own Yulman Theater. He is On Monday, September 15. the cochair of the Advisory Board of Yulman Theater, a building often Carnegie l\1ellon 's Drama Depart- shunned and ignored by freshmen, ment and a consultant to the Ameri- opened its doors for its third an- can College of Greece in Athens. nual Open House, an event which Throughout his artistic career, began three years ago with the William Lacey has been a long opening of the new Yulman The- standing member of the Boston ater. As the theater is not on the University Faculty. Having di- typical path of most students, the rected over 50 productions, Lacey theater department wanted an ex- has a portfolio that ranges from citing way to bring students into Aeschylus to Pinter, in both pro- the building. fessional and university theaters. Cosponsored by Mountebanks Lacey has also appeared as an ac- and the Union College theater de- tor or narrator for programs of the partment, the event was an attempt Handel and Haydn Society, the to introduce freshmen to the the- Boston University Symph()ny. and ater faculty, view the facilities (in- Greek National Theater. eluding the main stage space, Professor Lacey is excited to be actor's studio, green room and returning to Union College. This dressing rooms), and become aware workshop will focus primarily on of all the theater has to offer. Stu- the art of understanding dents had the opportunity to meet Shakespeare in performance. Theater Director William Finlay, These workshops will take place Technical Director John Miller, De- November 7 at 3-5 PM and Novem- signer Charles Steckler, and Visit- her 8 at 12-3 PM in the Yulman The- ing Professor Sarah Chazen. formed in period style. In order to acquaint students with Chekov's dark humorist style, Chazen di- rected a staged reading of Chekov's one-act 'The Proposal.\ Alex Beckers '98, Ari Gottlieb '99, and Lori Greene '00 worked with Chazen on this hysterical story about a man who tries to propose to a landowner's daughter but can- not get past his own ailments to do so. Also announced was the productions for winter tenn--\Two Gentlemen ofVerona,\ directed by Shakespeare expert William Lacey, and spring term's production of \Montsarat a musical, directed by William Finlay. Mountebanks co-moderators Alex Beckers '98 and Emily Schwartz '98 announced Mountebanks plans for this term. Influenced by faculty advisor Bill Finlay, plans are in the makings for a late night cabaret to follow the Friday evening performances of \The Seagull.\ If these are successful, Moun- tebanks plans on making a tradi- tion out of the late-night cabarets and hosting them each term. Any student interested in performing in either of the cabaret's listed for Oc- tober 3 I and November 7 should contact Sarah Friedman, vice mod- erator of Mountebanks and dinator of the cabarets. Mou banks also plans on hosting night of one-acts plays an scenes. Any students interes in directing or [>erforming shoul contact Kim Rohl>ack, treasurer Mountebanks. Also au.\u'\'' were Mountebanks meet in which are held each Thursday 5:30PM in the Yulrnan Theater. meetings are open to all stude11tsl and faculty. As many students find the ater an intimidati11g or frighteni place, Monday's Open House a welcome way to show stud that everyone can be involved some aspect oftheater, be it formance or technical aspects. Miller and Steckler were on to emphasize the importance technical theater, a division of ater that often gets overshadowed Students interested in lightin stage management, stage d sound, costumes, <Jr props shoul see Professor Miller or Pro Steckler in their offices in Yulman The event proved to be a sue and as Gina Las<Jrsa '00 put it, have always (()ved theater b didn't know it was so easy to involved here at Union!\ ater. Interested students and teach- Professor Chazen played a cru- ers of Shakespeare, in either the cia! role in getting students excited perfonning or directing aspects, are for this year's theater lineup, which encouraged to attend. For more begins with her directing Chekov's information call Prof. Finlay at the \The Seagull,\ a piece to be per- Yulman Theater, extension 6475. 1-----------------------------------------' OPTIONS '97 D CAREER FESTIVAL Attend the Annual Career Festival Thurs., Sept. 25th from 12·4 pm in the Field House rain or shine. More employers and graduate schools have been added. Internship, full-time and summer options are available.

by Gina LaSorsa Contributi~g Writer On September 19th and 20th at · :02 PM, the Yulman Theater will hosting the opening season of '\\r'\\i\'\\'\ Too. The theater sea- begins withthe one-man play Lies Henry in its first Ameri- debut. This play was created starring actor Daniel Macivor was director Daniel Brooks. stars as Henry Torn Gal- . , a self-confessed liar. Henry a thirty-something optimist who mo1naers the meaning and point• ''\'c\ .. '\''\' of life. He begins slowly revealing things about himself, such as his childhood, his homo- , and his lies. He claims assignment is to tell the audi- something they don't already Since Henry is a profes- ,., ... ,.,a,·liar, it is difficult to distin- between his lies and the Here Lies Henry is a production of the critically acclaimed DaDa amera theater group from oronto. Maclvor's 75-minute monologue is \a masterpiece in minimalism to give an atmosphere of intimacy and to make the audi- ence feel like they are part ofthe drama. Maclvor's performance only be described as penetrat- ing for its ability to get into the character at the same time as he gets into the audience's skin,\ ac- cording to the Toronto Star. The show has had many additions since its first performance, in- cluding dramatic lighting and sound design. These new effects only add to the audience's sense of uneasiness. Proctor's Too is a joint effmt put forth by Proctor's Theater and the Yulman Theater. Proctor's Too provides students with a \unique Daniel Maclvor in a performance of\Here Lies Henry.\ (Courtesy of Perfroming Arts Department) opportunity for theater not found explosive, imaginatively rich mono~ in the more traditional theater set- Iogue that effortlessly loops back ting.\ Under the direction of Pro- on itself with all the grace and ton- fessor William A. Finlay, Proctor's nage of a comet. Maclvor, as per- Too has been bringing unique and former, achieves momentsofpure intimate theater to the Union com- brilliance.\ Tickets for Here Lies munity. Henry are available at the Yulman According to Chris Winsor of Theater box office. All general ad- Toronto's Eye Weekly, \It's beau- mission tickets cost$ I 5 for adults tiful. But it's crazy too, a verbally and $8 for students with l.D. What's Up With WRUC? by Mike DeMicco Contributing Writer Well, here the station goes for its 77th year of operation, and there are a lot of changes planned to get the year off to a good start. · The Executive· Board has adopted a new theme for the upcoming year- -\Get the students involved!\ This might seem to be a pretty basic plan, but in the past, with prior members in control, it has become an oversight. We are now looking to get the station running 24 hours a day as it was four years ago. It only takes one hard .. core group of DJs or listeners to accomplish this goal. This year, we at the Ex- ecutive Board are dedicated to see- ing this achievement fulfilled. New positions are opening to help jump start this process. Five producers were appointed to help organize and run this year's up- coming program schedule. On the more promotional and technical side of things, three ad- ditional Production Directors have been added to the team. The Sports Director has divided his program to encompass two as- sistants, to take over football/bas- ketball and hockey/l>aseball. Other enterprises that are being undertaken have been to install a direct line from Chet' s to the main studio to allow the station to broad- cast live events occurring in the Reamer Campus Center. The final endeavor, which will be the most complicated but most re- warding not only for,the station but also for the campus and beyond, wi II be the proposed increase from our current 100 watts to a projected I 000 watts. This will increase the broadcasting range threefold and will give the DJ s and the listeners something to be more proud of. I, Mike DeMicco, General Man- ager, and the rest of the WRUC Executive Board implore the cam- pus to get involved with campus clubs and events to increase the current standards that we have and to make a difference to improve the community in which we live here at Union, \School of the Gifted.\ If anyone has any questions or comments, please contact our Business Office at extension 6154. We look forward to continued interaction from the campus and faculty not only this term, but dur- ing the entire year! SOME PEOPLE CALL YOUR NEED FOR STIMULATION OVER THE TOP. WE CALL IT YOUR TICKET TO THE TOP. Imagine developing all yaur talents ·while doing the same £or a multi-billion do1Iar business. Or having the autonomy to use your head to make top-level decisions. while impacting bottom-line profitability. Where do you go to have it aU7 Enterprise Rent·A.Car has entry-level business developmmt opponunities that give you the freedom to make critical decisions. Join us and have hands-on involvement in every aspect of b115iness managemmt -!rom sales and marketing to administratioa and staff development. ThJs growth opportunity otTers a competitive compensation and bmefits package. Use Yov Head. Join Enterprise. VISIT WITH A REPRESENTATIVE WHO WILL BE ON CAMPUS AT tHEJOB FAIIl ON THURSDA~ SEPTEMBER l5TH. For more ,infonnadon. plea$e alltoU-Ctte: l-881J..WWW-ERAC Visit our web site at: www.erac.com

by Gina LaSorsa Contributing Writer ON September 19th and 20th at 8:02PM, the Yulman Theater wiH hosting the opening season of '-'~l\l ... t,n 's Too. The theater sea- begins with tfue one-man play //ere Lies Henry in its first Ameri- debut. This play was created by starring actor Daniel Macivor and was director Damiel Brooks. Maclvor stars as Henry Totn Gal- lery, a self-confessed liar. Henry is a thirty-something optimist who ponders the meaning and point- lessness oflife. He begins slowly by revealing things about himself, such as his childhood, his homo- sexuality, and his lies. He claims his assignment is to tell the audi- ence something they don't already know. Since f lenry is a profes- innalliar, it is difficult to distin- guish between his lies and the truth. If ere l.ies Ill! my is a productioll of the critically acclaimed Da Da Kamera theater group from Toronto. l\1aclvor's 75-minute monologue is '\a masterp ieee in minimalism to give an atmosphere of intimacy and to make the audi- ence feel like they are part of the drama. \laclvor's perfonnance can on!) be des~.:ribed as penetrat- ing fix its ability to get into the charader at thl..\ same time as he geh into th~: audiem:e's skin,\ ac- cording to the I orunlo .\filr. The ~lllm ha~ haJ man) adJi tiuns ~inc~: ib fir~! perfurman~:~..:. in- cluding dramatic lighting <Jnd ~~~und J~,ign. These llC\\ cfkcts ·•nl~ add IP the a.udience's s<:nse ul unca-..Jnes-.. i'r<>dor\ llh' i'> ajnint cl!(;rt put I• 'rth b\ Pn lL'l\'r ·., Th..:atcr and th~ Yllllll.tn I heall'r l'rn..:tPr·-; Inn prtl\ id..:~ -.tudenls \\ith a ··untqw: Daniel Maclvor in a performance of\H~:re Lies Henr}.\ (C 'our/C.\)' of J>erf'romi ng :lrts I >t:parlmcn(} opportunity f(Jr theater not found explosive, imaginatively rit:h mono- in the m0rc traditional theatt•r sci- Iogue that effixtk~sl: luops bad. ting.\ llnder the direction of Pro- LJn itself with all the grace and ton- fcssor William .. \. Finla~. Proctor's nage of a comet. \1al'l\llf, as per- Tno has hcen bringing unique and intimate theater to the l nion Clllll- munil). .·\~.,·,·ording h' ( 'hri~ \\ lll,ur 1d ltlftlfllll·~ / .. It' ll,·dh. \It's hL\lU- tiful. But it's .:ra1y to''· a \t·rh;tll} former. adltt.:\ e' mumenh nf pu:e hri II ianc..:.\ Tickets f(lr flo-.· r It'.\ I le11rt arc a\ ailahk at the Y ulman Th..:ah;r htl\ l'flicc. \II t!Cncral ad- llli~'\on tiL·~ch ..:u~t S I:' li1r .~,lulh ;tlld SX li.1r 'ltH.lenh \\ ith I D. What's Up With WRUC? by 1\1 il<e Del\1 icco Contributing Writer Well, here the station goes for its 77th year of operation, and there are a lot of changes planned to get the year off to a good start. The Executive Board has adopted a new theme for the upcoming year- -\Get the students involved!\ This might seem to be a pretty basic plan. but in the past, with prior members in control, it has become an oversight. We are now looking to get the station running 24 hours a day as it was four years ago. It only takes one hard-core group of DJs or listeners to accomplish this goal. This year, we at the Ex- ecutive Board are dedicated to see- ing this achievement fulfilled. New positions are opening to help jump start this process. Five producers were appointed to help organize and run this year's up- coming program schedule. On the more promotional and technical side of things, three ad- ditional Production Directors have been added to the team. The Sports Director has divided his program to encompass two as- sistants, to take over football/bas- ketball and hockey/baseball. Other enterprises that are being undertaken have been to install a direct line from Chet's to the main studio to allow the station to broad- cast live events occurring in the Reamer Campus Center. The final endeavor, which will be the most complicated but most re- warding not only for the station but also for the campus and beyond, \ill be the proposed increase from our current I 00 watts to a projected I 000 watts. This will increase the broadcasting range threefold and will give the DJs and the listeners something to be more proud of. I, Mike DeMicco, General Man- ager, and the rest of the WRUC Executive Board implore the cam- pus to get involved with campus clubs and events to increase the current standards that we have and to make a difference to improve the community in which we live here at Union, \School of the Gifted.\ If anyone has any questions or comments, please contact our Business Office at extension 6154. We look forward to continued interaction from the campus and faculty not only this term, but dur- ing the entire year! SOME PEOPLE CALL YOUR NEED FOR STIMUlATION OVER THE TOP. WE CALL IT YOUR TICKET TO THE TOP. Imagine developing aU your talents ·while doing the same for a multi-billion dollar business. Or having the autonomy to use your head to make top-level decisions, while impacting bottt>m-line profitability. Where do you go to have it all? Enterprise Rent·A-Car has entry·level business development opportunities that give you ihe freedom to make critical decisions. join us and have hands-on involvement in every aspect of business management • from sales and marketing to administration and staff development. This growth opportunity otTers a competitive compensation and benefits package. Use Your Head. join Enterprist. VlSIT WITH A REPRESENTATIVE WHO Will BE ON CAMPUS AT THE JOB FAIR ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25TH. For mort Information, plr.a.sc call toll-free: 1-888-WWW-ERAC Visit our web site at: www.erac.com We m an equal opportllllity employer.

_.;.} \\\.:'> Page 18 • September 18, 19.97. • {![fp· (ffnm·.t.r.n)husis . · - Ad\'Crtiscmcnt CDC Upda.tes ... Check out our w-ww page at h-t~p:/ /'f117ww.unlon.ed.u :for up.-to..<'Jate progranuning and a list. of' companies interviewing .on cru:npus! T'ONIC:.Hn \lr1terviewing ft'pm tlw Recruiters Perspective•• at. 7pm, CC Aud.. Learn bow to ~are for in~erv:lewing from prot'essJon.aJ re- cruiters. Prerequisite for Recruiting Contract and mock interviews. ResUDI.e crlt:..ique• - •pec.la1. clrOp-lD hour. Sept. 15-~3 ftom 1-Spm and Sept. 24 and Sept. 26 CTOm 9-Spm. ~ To- EitiM The Most 0\:d: Of \'be Caitw ~- September 23 at 7pm and September 24 at 4pm.CDC. Meet witl'l recruiters at the NSilE/SHPE Canter F«Stlvail RccllqttiCNI ... Open to all students on Sept.. 24 at 7:30pm in Old Chapel. Come to the Career Fest-Ival on ThurSday. Sept. 25 from 12noon - 4pm at the Field House. Even-one is welcome! Check out the f'ull-.time. part-time, internships and co-op positions. Dress professionally ••Business Etiquette and Networking~\ with alumni Hallie Heller, DanieUe Buck. and Charlie K.ing on Sept. 25 at Sp111 in RCC 203. Andersen CDIRSIIUIR/1 lnl'orillli.'ltl011 SeSSion on Thw;-sday Sept. 25 at 7pm on the first floor of Old Chapel. Interested in recruiting on campus Call tenn? The C~r Cente£ wiU be accepting resumes Friday. Sept. 26 from. 8:30mn- Spm. tWE£C09rlt£ 'll~C~ SPU.'DEg('TS & !FJf.CtziLiJJY 1 wouft{ {i/(r. to wefc.otn2 tlie tzlnion Cofkge stut!ents ant! faculty 6acl( to Sclienu.tatfy and invite you to cotne in to fiave your liair c.ut at my new focation C/iande/lers !J-{air Studio Coreen 9.lartlne[{i forma{fg of 'llisage :Jlair Stuaw 372-7949 .. 906 'Wooc£Canri .9tve. Sc.lilay., 9\[ty12308 (Off upper V.nicn St, near (jersfwns) $Il[l-IJ~g(q' J1l9.fj) !FJ21.Ctz.l r,py fJJISCOV.9{~ $9.00 tnet1.5 liair c.ut $14.00 women '.s liair cut --••• nooo 'oo -·R,o•O~~··O ' '' '' -· -· - \ . ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• I MAKE GREAT CH,RISTMAS $ IN CT.! ' • ' • IF YOU CAN BEGIN WORK THE FIRST 'VEEK ' • OF DEC. OR EARLIER, AWARD WINNING • • t ' RETAIL SHOP IN NEW CANAAN CT IS NOW I ' • • ACCEPTING XMAS SALES HELP APPLICA· ' • ' ' TJONS. $3/HR, 40 HR WEEK. PLEASE CALL • ' I RAY FOR MORE INFO @ PENNYWEIGHTS t t ' JEWELRY GIFT STORE. (203) Y66t773~ • ' • I SECURE YOUR JOB TODAY f • • ·········l·••t••··················· ••t,s ... Student Activities ·attd··tJie· . . _, - ~ . ' . \I'm 10 weeks old. I'm a drug addict. My drug dealer is my mtJther. /live in her womb.\ \I'm six months olt1 and my mommy gives me alcohol,. heroin and craek cocai11e through the umiJilical cord we share. She fils' shares neetlles with her junkie j'rietUis. She doesn't know it yet but we both (IJ'e HIV positive .. \ · \I've just been born tuU.l something awful is wrong. I thmk they call it AIDS. Everything I eat comes back up or runs tlumlgh me. I can't sleep. l can't stop sweating. 1 can't stop scretmring. Somebody, pltase help. Please hold me before I die.\ If only infants oould talk;. these would be the words of many of11le babies that oome to Hale House. For nearly thirty years, Hale House located in New York Cit)' ltas been the home of many abandoned babies, drug addicted kids and cruldren in need. To join in our efforts to support Hale House. you can either buy a smile or make a donation at the table located in the College Center AUit.ml; between September 22-26. All proceeds will be benefitting Hale, House. Thank you for your cooperation. This event is sponsored by: Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. & Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority, Inc. •• \___,/

CDC Updat:es ••• Check out our www page at http:/ ./www.un.iont.ed:u for up-to-date programming and a list of companies interviewing on crunpus! TONIC:.HTI \Interviewing from the .Recruisers Perspective .. at 7pm. CC Aud. Learn how to prepare f'o.- interviewing from professional re- c....-ruitcrs. Prerequisite for Recruiting Contract and mock intervic\\s. ReaUD1e critiques - apecbd drop-ID hours Sept.. 15-23 from 1-Spm and Sept. 24 and Sept. 26 from 9-Spin. \'Hc..rw To ~ \'he Most Out Of \!he 0t:aa a a Fest.i.'Yc:d.- - September 23 at 7pm and September 24 at 4pm.CDC. Meet witl'l recruiters at the NSBE./SHPE Career lctStlvall Rcccptioa ... Open to all students on Sept. 24 at 7:30pm in Old Chapel. Corne to the ~~~._...~ .. Fes&.lvall on Thursday, Sept. 25 from 12noon - 4pm at the ricld House. Everyone is welcome! Check out the full-time, pru-t-timc. internships and co-op positions. Dress professionally \Business EUquett.e and Networking\ witll alumni Hallie Heller. Daniclle Duck, and Charlie King on Sept. 25 at ~pm in RCC 203. Andersen CDA!SuiUII'IIIInl'or~OIII SeSSion on Thursday Sept. 25 at 7pm on the first floor of Old Chapel. Interested in recruiting on can1pus fall term'? T1le Career Center will be accepting resumes Friday, Sept. 26 f\rom 8:30am - 5pm. WELC09vll£ rJ3.!4C:f( S'I11'IYE::J\['IS & g:~CVLPY I would {ikf_ to welcom£ t!U t'lJ.nion CofCege stuaents anti faculty 6acl( to Sclienectac£y and invite you to come in to liave your liair cut at my new focation C/iande/lers :7-fair Studio Careen !Jvfartine{(i formaf{g of Visage !}{air Stuaio 372-7949 906 'VI/ood{amf ~1/f.ve. Scli 'cly.J 9\fY12308 ((~If upper •Union St, near (jersfions) §If{l'Df£::1\['I 5lg{p !F!?LCVLPY '1J ISCOf{J!l\[~ $9.00 mens fiair cut $14.00 women '.s liair cut L__ _________ --------- ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• : MAKE GREAT CHRISTMAS~ IN CT.! : • IF YOU CAN BEGIN WORK THE FIRST '~EEK • • • OF DEC, OR EARLIER, AWARD WINNING • t : RETAIL SHOP IN NEW CANAAN CT IS NOW : • ACCEPTING XMAS SALES HELP APPLICA· : ' • TJONS. ~8/HR,40 HR WEEK. PLEASE CALL • : RAY FOR MORE INFO @ PENNYWEIGHTS : : JEWELRY GIFT STORE. (203) ~66e7739 • • : SECURE YOUR JOB TODAY ! ,. ,.'t '. a virtual that will blow you away Brought to you by Student Activities and the Social Committee \I'm 10 weeks old Pm a drug addict. My drug dealer is my moth~r. !live in her womb.\ \I'm six months old and my mommy gives me alcolwl, heroin and crack cocaine through the umbilical cord we share. She also shares needles with lu!r junkie friends. She dtJesn\t know it yet but we both are HlV positive.\ ''I've just been born and something awful is wrong. I think they call it AIDS. Everything I eat comes back up or runs through me. I can't sleep. I can't stop sweating. 1 cantt stop screaming. Somebody, please h~lp. Pltase hold me before I dU.\ If only infants could ~ these would be the words of many of the babies that come to Hale House . For nearly thirty years, Hale House located in New York City has been the home of many abandoned babies, drug addicted kids and children in need. To join in our effom to support Hale House, you can either buy a smile or make a donation at the table located in the College Center Atrilllll, between September 22-26. All proceeds will be benefitting Hale House. Thank you for your cooperation. This event is sponsored by: Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. & Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority, Inc. •• \_____/ •••••• , •• , ••••••••••••••••••••• ,.,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I ., I ·1 ' ! . 1 ; 1 ) '! ' . ~ j I' '• 'r .: ! •,

Sports · · . . . Q.lp~ <fnttrorb'iettsis • Sc1Jtcmbcr 18, 1997 • Page 19. Men's Rugby 1997 Preview UNION XC NOVICES LEAD SQUAD IN DEBUT byPikeMody Rugger Abroad ment for Menard in the Bash Brother combo was panning out to be sophomore Travis Clark, the hard-bitting second row who is known for his love of crushing tackles and for his quick-fused temper. Clark has accepted aterm abroad in Greece, leaving another spot ()pert in the serum. Another rookie stand-out was the junior prop Donny Tam, whose large size and good conditioning helped Union's front row to become dominant in scrummages. He is Joining Mody for the term in China. Hopes ofthe return of big man Chris Weiler have been dashed due to other commitments that will hold up his return until spring. With all the subtractions, what does this leave Union with, in terms of a pack? watch. One of the most potent additions to Union's offense was the slippe~y Heath Levine who stands ascant5'5\ and 140 pounds .· hut manages to elude defenders with such regularity as to become Women Win, Men Lose Close As iflast years administrative woes were not enough for the tnen 's .rugby team, it finds itself in another potentially tough situation as our Fighting Dutchmen prepare for the fall season. As a seasoned line finally appears to have stepped into place for the team, with the return of Eastern New York AU- Star Brian Field, as well as his back-line partner in crime, Chris Delano, added to the presence of the ever popular Fred Gibney and up•and•coming players Tom Burke and Brett Lussier, the pow- erhouse pack has disappeared. With graduation claiming captains Eric Smith and Matt Lux and. four- year stalwarts Alex Douville and Jon Kaufman,. the Pack was hop- ing to rely on its core of under- classmen to pick up the slack. This has not shaped up to be the case. Union's own \Bash Brothers,\ the ever-potent hitting duo of eight- man Eric Menard and New York All-Star flanker Pike Mody, will also not be seen with the te(lm. Menard has graduated, and Mody has accepted a term abroad in China. The most probable replace- Entering his fourth year, the ever improving prop Mark D'Ambruoso will lead Union as one of the oldest players on the team. Hard-hitting ex-linebacker Jamie Leahey could also do some damage, ifhe d~cides to play (his mention in this article can be seen as pressure for him to do so!) Newcomer Mat Scheller has also proved himself useful on the line and in the serum; and as his expe- rience builds he will be a player to a scoring threat for opposing teams. If Mike Gill can stay healthy, his return may also pro- vide Union with some muscle-- that is if Gill can manage not to get ejected , as in certain games last fall. The versatile Mark Goloboy will be of tremendous help, due to his ability to play al- most any position in the serum, thereby allowing Union the abil- ity to experiment and to move people around. The success of the team will rely heavily on the re- cruiting offreshmen and any other individuals who may decide to give rugby a shot. Ifthe team can muster a class of rookies with de- sire to play and the commitment to withstand the team's four day a week practice schedule, Union's chance to rebuild itself into the champion team that it was a little more than a year ago is definitely promising. It will be an interest- ing season to watch unfold, so go out and support Union Rugby wlten they play in front of the Nott this season. Women's Soccer ... Continued From Page 24 Cardettino netted her first collegiate goal, and gave t h e Dutch women a 1-0 lead at the half. In the second half, junior Taryn Samol's goal gave the team a 2-0 lead, which Barton felt \sparked the team as a whole.\ The team played strong for the rest of the Julie Barton dribbles arou11d her WNEC opponent tltis weekmd. (Laurie Kirschner I TC) game and was excited about win- ning the tournament. Sophomore Abby Harris was named Tourna- ment Most Valuable Player for her tremendous play throughout both games. \This game was the next step for our development as a team,\ said coach Speck. \It put us in the right direction and at- lowed us to see what combinations work well with one another.\ With a record of two wins and no losses, fans are excited about this year's team. While they may be young, they showed that there is still enough experience with seven upperclassman on th:e ros- ter to help counter more experi- enced teams. The team will travel to Hamilton this Tuesday to take on an always tough Continental squad. Ifthings go as planned, the team will return home with a per- fect record. Please Note: The Oneonta game result was not available at print time. COSTA RIC A Study Paradise this Spring The Organization for Tropical Studies in partnership with Duke University offers o field-oriented semester abroad program in tropical ecology and latin American culture. Students earn 16 credit hours in biology, environmental science, and Spanish language & culture .. Credits may be transferred from Duke. • hand!fooon biology • cultural immersiion • field trips • independent projects • remote field sitos • research • exotic wildlife For brochure and application materials, contact Organization for Tropical St&~di•s, Ouk.a University Box 90633, Durham NC 27708-0~33 Tel: (919) 68.4-5.77 4; E-mail: <nao@aepub.duke.edu> http://www .ots.duke.edu Applicatic:>n deadline for 1998 Spring semester is October 1 5, 1997. by ,rason Everett Staff Repor~er Union's Women'sCross-Coun- try Team made their season debut this past Saturday in a double-dual meet against Hamilton and . Hartwick on Union's own so- called cross-country course. The women raced 5K (3.1 miles) around the scenic Union campus and Jackson's Garden. Although the women's team lost 41-20 to Hamilton, and 40-20 to Hartwick, there were several exciting devel- opments in this early season com- petition. Leading the way for the female harriers was outstanding freshman talent Amy Slabich. Slabich ne- gotiated the Union grounds like a three-year veteran and finished fifth in 20:12. Close behind Slabich in eighth place was junior Jessica Goveia, last year's indoor track MVP, who was competing in her first cross- country race ever. Despite the lack of experience at this distance, Goveia showed her fortitude, fin- ishing in 20:36 while holding ofr' a rival Hamilton runner at the fin- ish. Coach Charlie Casey said it was \a great day for Amy [and] Jess, for her first race ran unbeliev- ably.\ Despite the rookie Union cross- country runners leading the way, two-time Union XC MVP Kelly Jamieson showed that she will be a runner to contend with, finish- ing strong in 13th place in 21:1 0. Casey said Jamieson was ·\[her] usual solid self.\ Rounding out the top five for the women were jun- iors Katie MacDowell and Char- ity McManaman, finishing 18th and 22nd respectively in 21 :48 and 22:50. Another Union runner making her Union debut was se- nior Allison Ciolino, who ran im- pressively, finishing 24th in 22:55. After the race, Casey declared the day to be a \great day for the women ... [this] is one of the most promising starts we have had in five years with three women who are running with the best women in the state ... [and possibly] could go to nationals.\ Casey went on to add that \virtually nobody lost a close race [and] clearly we have some people who have some good track speed that they've brought to Cross-Country.\ The Union women's results are as follows: 5. Amy Slabich 20:12; 8. Jes- sica Goveia 20:36; 13. Kelly Jamieson 21:10; lS. Katie MacDowell 21 :48; 22. Charity McManaman 22:50; 23. Maura Culloo 22:53; 24. Alison Ciolino 22:55; 27. Emily Morse23:21; 28. Melissa Magner 23:25; 30. Irene Kan 23:53; 31. MollyHood24:00; 32. Alex'Podgorny 27:02; 33. Aimee Marko 28:01; 34. Jen Rob- erts 28:41 ;- 36. Heather Campbell 38:49. The Union Men's Cross-Coun- try Team made their season debut this past Saturday in a double-dual meet against Hamilton and Hartwick here on Union's home campus. The men were not completely surprised about the way things turned out but were indeed sur- prised afterwards at the slow times and the fact that they may have raced an extra 600 or so meters due t<> a possible mis-measurement in the course. (The course was rede- signed in order to allow for the Olin construction.) The men lost 18-44. to Hamilton and 26-31 to Hartwick. It was a di.fficult day for the men all around on the 8K ( 5 mile) course. The men, making their season debut, went to tb.e starting line without f<Jur oflast years top ,five runners. Two were lost to graduation (Steve McCann and Nick Conway-- Conway is now an assistant coach while in Unions MAT program), one to term abroad Uunior Peter Flynn) and senior Jay Goldberg, Vlho is currently sidelined with a 1 ~g injury sustained in preseason. (Goldberg hopes to return next \.<Veek at the Williams Invitational.) In addition to being a little short- handed, the men also had to con- tend with a swamp that now calls home to Jackson's Garden. Despite the holster being a little empty, the Union men performed admirably and showed some heart in this, their 1997 debut. Leading the way for the men was senior Dave Kunselman, who after an unusually quick start for a five mile race (5:04) settled in and finished strongly in fourth place in 29:4 7. Despite Kunselman's finish to- V/ards the front of the race, Union's somewhat lack of depth llurt in the scoring. Coach Charlie Casey commented that \Dave ran well ... considering he was hunted clown by a pack of seven runners [for the duration ofthe race].\ The only other top-ten finisher was sophomore Kenny Scott who managed to finish tenth in 30:48, 2 8 seconds behind the ninth fin- isher. Casey afterwards deemed the day, \a day of valuable les- S()ns\ in reference to how \nearly everyone went out fast against two very deep teams.\ He added that h-e hopes to remedy the situation S() as to not have the team repeat it. Finishing third for the men was junior Hugh Meyer, who ran a tough race, finishing 12th in an e-ven 31 minutes. Rounding out the top five for the men were fresh- men Terry Chang and Joe Chan who finished 17th and 25th respec- tiwely in 3 1: 18 and 34:01. Both Cltang and Chan ran impressively i11 this, their Union College debut, a.ud both should make the adjust- ment to five miles from 5K very well this season. Casey was very impressed with their perfor- mances. The Union men's results are as f<>llows: 4. Dave Kunselman 29:47; 10. Kenny Scott 30:48; 12. Hugh Meyer 31 :00; 17. Terry Chang 31 :38; 25. Joe Chan 34:01; 26. Jon Nieman 34: 17; 27. Corey Mathis 34:44; 31. Andy Silverman 35:18; 32.Mike Iger35:30; 33. Evan Jahn 35:44; 36. Siraj Bhadsavle 37:44; 38. Alex Militello 38:47; 39. Phil Leef43:17. -

' I ' i·: Men's Rugby 1997 Preview by Pike Mody Rugger Abroad As iflast years administrative woes were not erwugh for the men's rugby team, it finds itself ilil another potentially tough situatim1 as our Fighting D~:~tchmen prepare for the fall season. As a seasoned line finally appears to have stepped into place for the team, with the return of Eastern New York All- Star Brian Field, as well as his back-line partner in crime, C'hris Delano, added to the presence of the ever popular Fred Gibney and up-and-cotning players Tom Burke and Brett Lussier, the pow- erhouse pack has disappeared. With graduatim'l claiming captains Eric Smith and Matt Lux and four- year stalwarts Alex Douville and Jon Kaufman, the Pack was hop- ing to rely OR its core of under- classmen to pick up the slack. This has not shaped up to be the case. Union's own \Bash Brothers,\ the ever-potent hitting duo of eight- man Eric Menard and New York All-Star flanker Pike Mody, will also not be seen with the team. Menard has graduated, and Mody has accepted a term abroad in China. The most probable replace- ment for Menard in the Bash Brother combo V\/as panning out to be sophomore 1'ravis Clark, the hard-hiHing second row who is known for his love of crushing tackles and for his quick-fused temper. Clark bas accepted a term abroad iR Greeee, leaviNg another spot open in the serum. Another rookie stand-aLit was the junior prop Donny Tarn, whose large size and good conc:Htionililg helped Union's front r<Jw to become dominant in scrummages. He is joining Mody fcr the term in China. Hopes 0fthe retum ofbig man Chris Weiler have been dashed due to <lther commitments that will hold U]l his ret1:1rn until spring. With all the subtractions, what does this leave Union with, in terms of a pack.? Entering his fourth year, the ever improving prop Mark D'Ambruoso will lead Union as one of the oldest players on the team. Hard-hitt illg ex-linebacker Jamie Leahey could also do some damage, if he decides to play (his mention in this article can be seen as pressure for him to do so!) Newcomer Mat Scheller has also proved himself usef1:1l on the line and in the serum, and as his expe- rience builds hew ill be a player to watch. One of the most potent additions to Union's offense was the slippery Heath Levine who stands a scant 5'5\ and 140 po1:1nds but manages to elude defenders with such regularity as to become a scoring threat for opposing teams. If Mike Gill can stay healthy, his return may also pro- vide Union with some muscle-- that is if Gill can manage not to get ejected , as in certain games last fall. The versatile Mark Goloboy will be of tremendous help, due to his ability to play al- most any position in the serum, thereby allowing Union the abil- ity to experiment and to move people around. The success ofthe team will rely heavily on the re- cruiting of freshmen and any other individuals who may decide to give rugby a shot. If the team can muster a class of rookies with de- sire to play and the commitment to withstand the team's four day a week practice schedule, Union's chance to rebuild itself into the champion team that it was a little more than a year ago is definitely promising. It will be an interest- ing season to watch unfol.d, so go out and support Union Rugby when they play in front ofthe Nott this season. Women's Soccer ... Continued From Page 24 Cardettino netted her first collegiate goal, and gave t h e Dutchwomen a 1-0 lead at the half. In the second half, junior Taryn Samol's goal gave the team a 2-0 lead, which Barton felt \sparked the team as a whole.\ The team played strong for the rest of the Julie Barton dribbles around ller r-JINEC opponent this weekend. (Laurie Kirschner I TC) game and was excited about win- ning the tournament. Sophomore Abby Harris was named Tourna- ment Most Valuable Player for her tremendous play throughout both games. 'This game was the next step for our development as a team,\ said coach Speck. \It put us in the right direction and al- lowed us to see V\'hat combinations work well with ()ne another.\ With a recorcl of two wins and no losses, fans are excited about this year's team. While they may be young, they :showed that there is still enough experience with seven upperdas;.srnan on the ros- ter to help counter more experi- enced teams. The team wi II travel to Hamilton this Tuesday to take on an always tough Continental squad. lfthings go as planned, the team will return home with a per- fect record. Please Note: The Oneonta game result was not available at print time. COSTA RIC A Study Paradi.se this Spring The Organization for Tropical Studies in portnership with Duke Univeraity offers a field-oriented semester abroad pro gram in tropical ecology and lcttin American culture. Students ec:Jrn 1 6 credit hours in biology, environmental science, and Spanish language & culture. Credits may be t-ronsferred from Duke. • hands-on biology • cultural immersion • field trips • independent proi•(ts • remote field sites • research • -exotic wildlife For brochure end application materials, contact Organization for Tropical Studses, Duke University Box 90633, Durham NC 27708-0633 Tel: (919) 684-5774; E-mail: <nao~acpub.duke.edu> nltp:/ /www. ots.duke.edu Application deadline for 1998 Spring semester is October 1 5, 1997. UNION XC NOVICES LEAD SQUAD IN DEBUT Women Win, Men Lose Close by Jason Everett Staff Reporter Union's Women's Cross-Coun- try Team made tmeir season debut this past Saturday in a double-dual meet against Hamilton and Hartwick on Union's own so- called cross-country course. The women raced 5K (3.1 miles) around the scenic Union campus and Jackson's Garden. Although the women's ~eam lost 4 I -20 to Hamilton, and 40-20 to Hartwick, there were several exciting devel- opments in this early season com- petition. Leading the way for the female harriers was outstanding freshman talent Amy Slabich. Slabich ne- gotiated the Union grounds like a three-year veteran and finished fifth in 20:12. Close behind Slabich in eighth place was junior Jessica Goveia, last year's indoor track MVP, who was competing in her first cross- country race ever. Despite the lack of experience at this distance, Goveia showed her fortitude, fin- ishing in 20:36 while holding off a rival Hamilton runner at the fin- ish. Coacll Charlie Casey said it was \a great day for A my [and] Jess, for her first race ran unbeliev- ably.\ Despite the rookie Union cross- country runners leading the way, two-time Union XC' MVP Kelly Jamieson showed that she will be a runner to contend with, finish- ing strong in 13th place in 21: I 0. Casey said Jamieson was \[her] usual solid self\ Rounding out the top five for the women were jun- iors Katie MacDowell and Char- ity McManaman, finishing I 8th and 22nd respectively in 2 I :48 and 22:50. Another Union runner making her Union debut was se- nior Allison Ciolino, who ran im- pressively, finishing 24th in 22:55. After the race, Casey declared the day to be a \great day for the women ... [this] is one ofthe most promising starts we have had in five years with three women who are running with the best women in the state ... [and possibly] could go to nationals.\ Casey went on to add that \virtually nobody lost a close race [and) clearly we have some people who have some good track speed that they've brought to Cross-Country.\ The Union women's results are as follows: 5. Amy Slabich 20:12; 8. Jes- sica Goveia 20:36; 13. Kelly Jamieson 21:10; 18. Katie MacDowell 21 :48; 22. Charity McManaman 22:50; 23. Maura Culloo 22:53; 24. Alison Ciolino 22:55; 27. Emily Morse 23:21; 28. Melissa Magner 23:25; 30. Irene Kan 23 :53; 31. Molly Hood 24:00; 32. Alex Podgorny 27:02; 33. Aimee Marko 28:0 I; 34. Jen Rob- erts 28:41; 36. Heather Campbell 38:49. The Union Men's Cross-Coun- try Team made their season debut this past Saturday in a double-dual meet against Hamilton and Hartwick here on Union's home campus. The men were not completely surprised about the way things turned out but were indeed sur- prised afterwards at the slow times aad the fact that they may have raced an extra 600 or so meters due to a possible mis-measurement in the course. (The course was rede- signed in order to allow for the Olin construction.) The men lost 18-44 to Hamilton and 26-31 to Hartwick. It was a difficult day for the;: men all around on the 8K (5 mile) course. The men, making their season debut, went to the starting line without four of last years top five runners. Two were lost to graduation (Stt:v e McCann and Nick Conwa)-· Conway is now an assistant cua~ h while in Unions I\1AT prograrn ), one to term abroad {junior Peter Flynn) and senior Jay Goldberg, who is currently sidelined with a leg injury sustained in preseasQn. (Goldberg hopes to return next week at the Williams Invitational.) In addition to being a little short- handed, the men also had to coil- tend with a swamp that no\\ culb home to Jackson's Garden. Despite the holster being a little empty, the Union men performed admirably and showed some heart in this, their 1997 debut. Leading the way for the men was senior Dave Kunselman, who after an unusually quick start for a five rnile race (5:04) settled in and finished strongly in fourth place in 29:-17. Despite Kunselman's finish to- wards the front of the race, Union \s somewhat lack of depth hurt in the scoring. Coach ( 'harli e Casey commented that \Dave ran well ... considering he was hunted down by a pack of seven runnt.:rs [for the duration of the race].·· The only other top-ten finisher was sophomore Kenny Scott \1 hu managed to finish tenth in JO:..f-8. 28 seconds behind the ninth fin- isher. Casey aftervvanls deemed the day, '\a day of valuable les- sons·· in reference to how \nearly everyone went out fast against tv.o very deep teams.\ He added that he hopes to remedy the situati()n so as to not have the team repeat it. Finishing third for the men was junior Hugh Meyer, who ran a tough race, finishing 12th in an even 31 minutes. Rounding out the top five for the men were fresh- men Terry Chang and Joe Chan who finished 17th and 25th respec- tively in 3 I: 18 and 34:0 I. Both Chang and Chan ran impressively in this, their Union College debut, and both should make the adjust- ment to five miles from 5K very well this season. Casey was very impressed with their perfor- mances. The Union men's results are as follows: 4. Dave Kunselman 29:47; 1(). Kenny Scott 30:48; 12. Hugh Meyer 3 1 :00; 17. Terry Chang 31 :38; 25. Joe Chan 34:0 I; 26. Jon Nieman 34: 17; 27. Corey T\lathi s 34:44; 3 I. Andy Silverman 35:1 8; 32. Mike lger 35 :30; 33. Evan Jalm 35 :44; 36. Siraj Bhadsavle 374-l: J8. Alex tl-lilitello 38:47: .~lJ. l,hil Lcef4J:l7.

. ' Dutchmen Hockey Players Go International Two Current And One Former Player Win Gold For Canada ----~--------------~- by Hannah Blum Staff Writer Last July in Israel, three mem- bers of the Union Coliege hockey team, Leeor Shtrom ('99), Joel Bond ( '99) and Ryan Oonovan ('97), helped lead team Canada to a gold medal at the 1 ~th Maccabiah Games. The Games are similar to the Olympics, occur- ring every four years. However, there is one striking difference, as the restriction for competitors is that they must be Jewish. The Games were originally established to bring together Jewish athletes from all over the world to a friendly, competitive atmosphere in the land of rich Jewish ances- try. Over 50 nations competed in events from ten-pin bowling to mini-football; yet, this is the first year that a winter sport was played in the Games. Leeor Strohm, Joel Bond, Ryan Do1wva11 at the Maccahiah Games in IsraeL The trio helped win theguld medal for Canada this summer. (H ann all Blllm/ TC) When the $8 million Canada Center was built five years ago ,in Metulla, Israel, ice hockey was proposed for the 1997 Games. The Ukraine, Israel, the United States, and Canada were the four coun- tries who battled for the gold medal. A number of successful organizations, including the NHL and some of the best hockey schools in the world had compet- ing athletes. Players even included Maccabiah 's most valuable player David Nemerovsky ofthe Florida Panthers. Donovan, Shtrom, and Bond, all Canadian born, played extremely well for team Canada, which was coached by former Montreal Canadiens coach Jacques Demeres. Also in attendance was former Canadien Jean Belliveau, who stressed, \This [team] is tal- ent.\ Ryan Donovan, although a graduate of Union last year, was not one of the elders on the team. In fact, Donovan represented only the mean age ofplayers (ages ranged from 16 to 47). Donovan scored three goals and tallied three assists for a total of six points in the five game series .. Leeor Shtrom played in two of the five games and had only three goals scored against him (two be- ing on the power play). Shtrom's most impressive performance came against the Ukraine. After a teammate let in two quick goals, Shtrom replaced him and led the team to an unprecedented 19 to 2 victory, completing a personal shutout. Joel Bond had an incredible se- ries as a starter in four out of five games, scoring one goal .(assisted by Donovan) and three assists, and he often set up goals for his team- mates (reflected by his impressive plus/minus rating of +8). This rat- ing was not only tops among de- Football Survives a Scare at St. Lawrence (Continued From Page 24) the end-zone to take the lead 7-6. Both teams lost fumbles follow- ing the touchdowns, but Union's turnover resulted in another St. Lawrence touchdown. Freshman defensive back Devon Wimberly was unable to swat away Saints freshman quarterback Jeison Garcia's pass to Damian Ruof, leading to a 48-yard touchdown. The Saints failed on their ensuing two-point conversion, making the halftime score 12-7 in their favor. This was the fourth straight regu- lar-season game in which the Dutchmen trailed during most of the first half. After the halftime break, the Dutchmen came out ofthe locker room looking and sounding con- fident about a comeback. This confidence was solidified with Attanasio's kickoff return. The Dutchmen defense rose to the oc- casion, forcing Garcia to fumble the ball on a third and 11. Junior defensive tackle Jason Turi recov- ered the fumble inside the Saints' 20. However, the momentum sputtered after Ben Blackwood missed a 30-yard field-goal at- tempt for the Dutchmen. Both teams continued a defen- sive battle throughout the third quarter until McKeown found Smith for the second time in the end-zone. The 39-yard touch- down gave the Dutchmen a 20-12 lead, or one full possession. The Saints knocked on the door sev- eral times throughout the fourth quarter, but a Union fumble at their own 22-yard line gave the Saints one final opportunity. On a sec- ond and goal from the three, St. Lawrence appeared to score a touchdown. However, the Saints committed an offensive hold in the back-field to prevent a sack of Garcia. The 14-yard penalty placed Union out of imme- diate harm as St. Lawrence failed to con- vert. Union se- nior tailback Joe Latella dealt St. Lawrence a fi- nal blow as he rushed for 53 yards in the last five min- utes of the game, 36 of which led to Union's first rushing touchdown of the season. Garcia, who had the wind knocked out of him during St. Lawrence's final drive tried to engineer a heroic drive, but the Saints fell well short. New List of Union Standouts McKeown had his second straight interception-free game againstthe Saints as he completed I I of his 22 passes for two touch- downs and 135 yards. Those two tollchdowns were part of Smith's 71 yards on three catches. Smith sat out the fourth quarter after a minor altercation with an overexu- berant St. Lawrence fan. Senior defensive end Denton Randolph also contributed eight tackles, two for losses. These three players, however, round out names men- tioned in last season's recaps. The new slew of talent included Latella, who netted 1 06 yards on 21 carries and a touchdown, and Attanasio with his 90-yard return. Other standouts were junior defen- sive back Jim Rozakis, senior line- backer Mark Serio, and freshman linebacker Adam Tyksinski, all of who had nine tackles on the day. Senior linebacker Erik Edson also contributed six tackles. This was Edson's firstgame since being hurt in last year's St. Lawrence match- up. Finally, freshman defensive back Devon Wimberly broke up tvvo passes and intercepted one other late in the game to contrib- ute to the Dutchmen victory. Wimberly and the rest of the de- fenders but one of the highest on the team. One bystander said of Bond, \Bond plays a lot like Paul Coffey. He is a power-house of- fensively, yet never slips out ofhis defensive I ine.\ Each of these Union students received a gold medal and partook in history as they were among the first players to bring hockey to Is.:. rae!. More importantly, these ath- letes received an experience sec- ond to none. The members of the team toured Israel for three days before and two days following their stay in Metulla. Besides spending a day with United Na- tions soldiers at the Lebanon bor- fense seemed thrown off by St. Lawrence's offensive scheme, en- tailing three men in the back-field and normally one. receiver. the . run-oriented offense was able to slightly penetrate Union's new 4- 3 defense, forcing Union's second- ary to pay more attention to the line of scrimmage. The defense's sec- ond-half adjustments were enough to shut out the Saints in the sec- ond half. Head Coach John Audino stressed that the Dutchmen need to take one game at a time and not overlook oppo- nents. Audino, who was cau- tiously optimis- tic about the 1991 Dutchmen before the game, had all he could handle against St. Lawrence. \I'll take two- nothing victories [for the rest of the season],\ Audino quipped after the game. The team, for the first time in at least a season, broke into separate position meetings immediately following Audino's speech. A Look Ahead At The East Region The Dutchmen open up their home season against WPI (Worcester Tech) this Saturday at 1 PM on Frank Bailey Field. WPI defeated rival Worcester State, who went undefeated last season (although their schedule is not highly regarded by pollsters)~ Last year, the Dutchmen struggled in der, the team visited iel-Aviv, Massada, the Dead Se~. and much ofJerusalem, includi11g the West- ern Wall. Shtrom and DomrVall agreed with Bond when he said this ex- perience was a \specia~ opponu- nity.\ Shtrom, who is Canadian born., is a dual citiz:e11 of both Canada and Israel( his:p<IJ'ents ~e Israeli, making him a 1\l~al citizen of the State). While Bond had been to Israel only onc:e{atthe age of eight) and Donova11 had never been, Shtrom is a frequoent visitor who had his first opp()rtunity to play ice hockey there~ The gold medal was far from the only thing these players brought back with them from IsraeL Each athlete brought back a better un- derst;mding oftheir reljg;i()us back- ground and a sense of pride in competing against athletes of the same faith, a religio~ wbich is of~ ten underrepresented ill compe~i­ tive sporting events. T:here is no other event in the world that cel- ebrates a religious past along with the talents of gifted atlhletes the way the Maccabiah games do. Furthermore, Union College should feel proud as it had more hockey players conipoeting to- gether on the same tealll and from the same school than any other in- stitution in the world. Donovan is currently working for an economics firm in Boston and is considering continuing his hockey career in Eur()pe. Worcester during the first half, but they recovered to defeat WPI 20- 6. In the :East Region, several pe- rennial powerhouses struggled. Ithaca, which spent most of last season in the top four 01f 1he East Region, lost at llome to Mercyhurst 10-5. Brock:port State sqQeaked out a victory against Jer- sey City State 12-7, wlli~e Buffalo State also struggled against St. John the Fisher, 19-13. Hobart also defeated Dickinso11 26-13. Union visits Hobart in novo weeks. Finally, in a match-up ()f teams Union will face next mo11tb, Coast Guard defeated RPI in overtime, 22-16. With all ofthesesul)Jrises in the East Region, Union \s struggle against St. Lawrence 'W3S. no less than a wash. In the USA. Divisiort III Top 30 College Footbatl Pall, Union remained tmcltanged at 24th place (see poll on page 22). The first Division HI regional.poll will be released in a few weeks. Starting This Monday! Prime Time Sports moves to Monday nights. Listen to GeoffSumvan & Dan Queen for a slew {)f sports. discussion and a \Monday Night Football\ preview. Mondays from 7-9 PM on 89.7, WRUC Schellectady.

I ,, I - ~·~ .,- .. ,\t\ •\'•/'¥1' ..... ~,-~ .... ,,,..,~ --~ ... -- Advertisements · · Wlfl: (ffm.m:rl·.bil'usis • September l 8, 1997 • Page. 21 . Looking for . Adventure 1 Clilnhit11 Equip. Biking Boots Sleeping Bags Flteee Clothing Outerwear, Camping Equip •. lain wear Backpacks THE. NORTHfi FACE II lava, 111'/e Wltllyaur Slud•tm · naw tllraagll . SIJ1131, 1117 • ' Domino's Pizza 716 State Street Sche·nectady; NY ·uni:on College Specials!! Buy 2 Medium Handtossed Pizzas With 1 Topping On Each $9e99+Tax Buy 1 Larg:e Ha.ndtossed Pla.i n Pizza $6.99+Tax Phone: (518)372-4444 Store Hours: Mon- Thur 4:30PM-2:00AM Fri-Sat 11AM-2AM Su·n 11AM-1AM ·~ ' ' -~---..,. _ __._,._. --- ~ .......... ~ ......... ...-.---·-~-~--,.......,....-.~· All .Students, Dojj· 11 # Miss dU1 Annual. •• Focus '97 .. Career Festival! Thursdo;y, Septelnber 25th, .1.2-4 pnr, Union FU/14 House~ Rain or Shine Accouotemps Amerada Hess Cot:.pO!'ation Ande:rseD CoasultiDg Coo.pers &; LybraDdLLP Delmar Publisben Delphi AlltOillOtive System'S .. Geueml Motors Enterprise Reat-A-Car Bquis R.eet. Tec:bnology Soludons Oene.lal Dynamics -Electric Boat Divisioo 0ene.1a1 EJectdc - Coi.'porate Benefit$ Delivery ~.Electric .. Power Systems Hewitt Associates Ionova Malketing JobD llaDcock FiDaDcial ServiceS Kaplan Educadonal Center Kcano Key B.an.k Hoecbst Marion Roussel M?nadiusetts Elcct:rk: Compa.n)' Menill Lync:h Net. Daclnoas A$sociateS Naribwestent Mutual LiCe - '11:lc Hall Ageoey NYS Assembly mcmn co.nm~uee NYS Electric & c::;.-corporatiom Oftic:eTeam .. Prudeatial Prefer:recl P\'lllall~ ~Oes Quad/Grapbidl ' .Raytbeoll· Bledlonic Systems The Kodiak Group . . 'Ibolllson Fiaancial ServiceS • ~~ . Trustco B&Dk ·~ u_ S .. Marines Corps.. OtrJ.Cer Sdectioa- ~~A- ~;p ParticiDBlin& Schools Albany Law Sc:bool B.ostoD CoUese Law School Brocklya Law Scbool Columbia U&iveaity - Pmgram ia Physical Tbenrpy Columbia Uoivasity ~College Marist Cpllcgc- Graduate Admlsstoas MOUDt SiDai Graduate School of Biological ScieDces New EDsland Sdlool of Law New York Cbiropmctic College New York CoUegc or Podiatric Medicine New York Univ.-siaty ... Scbool of Medicine NOdhe:astem UDiversity Ob:io Northem University - ec:.neae ~Law Pace UDi'VCI'Sity - Graduat.c.Admisslons Rensselaer at Hartf'os:d · The saae coueacs Suftblk. Unlvecsity Law Sdlool S)'rtlleuSe UDifti'Sity \tbe conc8e orSamt. Rose '1htuo Law Ccatcr Tul•ne Law $Cbo(,t · uniOD eoueae Educational swc&es Umoo CoJJego Graduate Manageawent IDst.iluto Ullivet$ity at Bu«a\dd. SdlOol otMavasemeat University otConnecdcut Scbool of Law Uuiversity ofDayloa Scbool of' Law Westem .Ne-w. PAIPmd Scbool of Law Wideilel' Uuivedity Scbool ot Law U .. S. Postal Service ~~ • %,. , United~ Secvice • ,& . ~ Westinghouse~ ~ ~, ~ Xerox Corporauon e.r ...at ~ -c..S! 06 ~~~~ ~. -c;,J'~ • .A 4! ..... ~~. Be Prepared: e ..10~. • Dress neatly. in business attire if possible.. · · • • Bring several copies of your resume.. The CDC can help you prepare one,· call 388-6176 •. • A han.dour enlitled, •'How to Get the Most Out af the Career Festival** is available at the CDC ..

Pag~ 22 • September 18, 1997 ,• <Ilp: <Lonroroimsi$ . ·· · · . , · . Sports ----~------ --~-------~~--~~-~--~- ----- ------'---- ~---~ -~-- -~--\\'- --- --- --~-----~ ------- --- - Field Hockey Team Runs into Rensselaer Wo~nen Show Resilience In Weekend Split by Stefanie Spean!Jurg Contributing Writer The Union College Women's ·Field Hockey Team concluded the 1996 season with an 8-8 record after losing to Ithaca 4-1 in states. The record was positive in lieu of a change in coaching staff (Charlyn Roberts resig11ed, and Martha Morrison returned for a one year position), a young team, and a rigorous game schedule. Entering the 1997 preseason with a vibrant, passionate, andenergetic coach, the returning squad was enthusiastic about the fall ahead. Change is definitely good. Coach Bevelander, having played field hockey and lacrosse at UMass and Boston University and having been on the U.S. lacrosse team, has extensive playing expe- rience. Bevelander's exceptional athleticism extends beyond play- ing to coaching. Her resume', which includes ten years of coaching at Falmouth in Cape Cod. the position of Athletic Director at Applewild in Fitchburg, is equally impressive. There, her teams succeeded three years undefeated. The Union Dutch woman Field Hockey Team celebrates a key goal over the weekend HoweiJI!I, ihe team could not overcome RPI superiority. (Laurie Kirschner I TC) assistant Melissa Lambordoni., a four-year varsity starter and all- American, offer the team instruc- tion with great experience and wis- dom. Tuczynski and junior Bianca Prumo have much to contribute to the attack. The team introduces freshman Hillary Olk to the ·of- fense while junior Shoko Okado, sophomore Gina Lupino, and jun- ior Carrie Heroth provide a strong mid-field. gin the season. CJaire Currie was recognized for Iter outstanding play. Division III Top25 Football .Poll 1. Mount Union (1-0) 2. Wisc.Whitewater(2-0) 3. Simpson (1-0) 4. Wesley (2-0) 5. Rowan (1-0) 6. Wittenberg (1-0) 7. Illinois Wesleyan (1-0) 8 .• Marietta ( 1-0) 9. Wise-LaCrosse (1-0) 10. Emory & Henry (1-0) 11. Colgate ofN.J.(l-0) 12. Albright (1-0) 13. Washington (2-0) 14. Allegheny (1 ·0) 15. Wash. &Jefferson (0-l) 16. Trinity (TX) (2-0) 17. St. John (MN) (1-1) 18. John Carroll (1-0) 19. St. Thomas (2-0) 20. Catholic (2-0) 21. Central (0-1) 22. Methodist (2-0) 23. West Connecticut (2-0) 24. Union (t.-0) 25. Lycoming (Io:O) Bevelander's achievement can be attributed to her outlook. Her philosophy emphasizes the es- sence of team, \Individuals should be recognized for all qualities and effort, not only for their achieve- ments.\ The secret to success, she states, is \to work les.s as individu- als and more as a team.'' \Captains pave the way for the team,\ according to Bevelander. Seniors Rachel Rothschild and Stefanic Speanburg and junior Carrie Heroth display this leader- ship. All three were recognized as league and academic all-stars for 1996 season. The team welcomes the return of senior forward Tanya Caparello, who was top-scorer in her junior year. The defense, ledjunior sweeper Tara Blagys~ recognizes Claire Currie as a new asset to the vet- eran defense--junior Hillary Prouty, senior half Stefanie Speanburg, and senior goal keeper Rachel Rothschild. Union did. not an()w the Friday's setback to affeet their attitude on Saturday. Unio11 had \intensity and fire\ from start to finish inthe challenge against Skidmore. Skidmore scored.two goals with 18 minutes left in tile first halt: t------------ Bevelander believes that· coaches and captains sh()uld pro- vide the guidance required to cre- ate an environment that enhances individual growth through and with the team. The coaclling tag- team, Bevelander accompanied by The season holds great perfor- mances in its future from the large number of returning players. Sophomore Susan Joyal, rookie of the year in 1996, will be found on the offense, where her stick skills can be fully appreciated. Sophomores Jackie Eatz, Amy Paolone, Julie Williams and Darcy Friday, September 12 opened the 1997 season with a game against rival RPI. To Union's dis- may; after beginning the second half at 0-0, RPI scored two goals and won the game. At this point it was clear that Rensselaer had a week's advantage over Union in practice time. Rachel Rothschild had an impressive 13 saves to be- Un ion, with an assist from fresh- man Hillary Qlk, scored, Jackie Eatz deflecting the ball in the cage. The score remained unchanged in the second half. The Dutchwomen dominated with 11 defensive cor- ners. Jackie Eatz was acknowl- edged for her outstanding play. The Dutchwomen play at a physical Hamilt()ll em Wednesday, September 16 and at home against Mount Holyoke at 5 PM on Satur- day, September 20. Monday's practice was promising and in- tense. Young Dutchwomen Split Weekend Union Tennis Team Hopes to Continue Learning Process by Dawn Tessier Contributing Writer The outlook going into 1his sea- son is very positive for the Union College Women's Tennis Team. With all the top singles players returning from last year~ s squad and the addition of a new assistant coach, Greg Roman,. expectations are high for this year's team. Having ended last year's sea- son with a fifth-place finish in the State Tournament, the team is looking to surpass that finish this year. The Dutchwomen are a rather young team, with only one junior, Courtney Rogers, and one senior, Dawn Tessier, and they are looking towards sophom()res Jodi Uiberall, Cassie Lawton, and Jen DeLucca to help carry the team. Freshmen Annette GrajiLy and Becky Rubin are also being counted on as key contributors to the team. \In my four years here, this team has more potential and tal- ent than any other year, V~~hich will hopefully lead us to another top finish in the State Tournament,\ said Tessier. When Coach Bill Scattlon was asked about his expectaticn for this Jen DeLucca serves up a big winner for the D11tchwomen as they role over St. .Rose. (Lauri Kirschner /The Concordiensis) year's team, he responded, \We are a solid team with more depth than last year. With that in mind, we potentially should be a better team than last year.;' Coach Roman added his thoughts, as he said, \I have high expectations for the team. As the season goes on, we will greatly improve. I feel comfortable say- ing that we will finish once again inthetopfive,ifnotthreeorfour.\ they travel to Cl~rkson and St. This past weekend was an inter- Lawrence this weekend. esting start of the season for the squad, as the team split a pair of matches with St. Rose and Vassar. After handily beating St. Rose 9-0 on Friday, the team went into hi- bernation on Saturday, losing to Vassar, 0-9. The Dutchwomen will need to rebound after such a tough loss, as Sign up today in the Student Activities Office to be a part of Chet' s annual Wing Eating Contest on September 25 at 8:30PM. Cash prizes for the winners. Be there! Stop by and sign up to be a mem- ber of the newly formed Golf Club today at the· Stu- dent Activities Expo. No experience necessary.

~~~~_\!~-- _ ---------~----- - · · - _ . Q:Ip' Q:rmcoroirnsis • September 18,1997 !I Pag~ 23 It was a wild weekend in the world of college football with the one-time powerhouses Notre Dame and Miami both losing. The Fighting Irish lost to Purdue, who one week ea:dierhad lost to lowly Toledo by two touchdowns. With Bob Davie taking over the reigns for- L'ou Ho-ltz altd the return of quatterback Ron Powlus for his seniorsel)son, 'Irish fans were· cau- tiously optimistic about a retl,lrn to a New Year's Day bowL The problem facing this Irish team is a lack of skilled playets on both sides of the bait Powlus has no deep threats to throw to, and the defense does not ha'Ve the team speed that is needed to compete in this day and age in 'college foot- bail. Things are not looking up for them, with undefeated Michigan State coming into South Bend fol- lowed by trips to Michigan and Stanford. How about those Sun Devils from Arizona State? Coming off a near unbeaten season, which ended in a oJJe~point loss to Ohio State in the R.oseBowl, graduation hurt the tearn immensely: quar- · terback Jake Plummer went to the NFL, along with linebacker Der- rick Rod gets, offensive guard Juan Roque, running back Terrie Battle, and many other key contributors to the team that was the surprise ofcollege football last year, Head coach Bruce Snyder de- servesalot ofcredit for his reload- ing instead ofrebuilding. Arizona State was supposed to fall hack to the middle -of the pack in the Pac- 10, but after 1h.eir upset of Miami in the Orange Bowl they are once .again a contender for the Pac~ 10 championsbip and a return trip to Pasadena. In Ann ArbDF, Brian Griese.led theWolverines to a rout over then- number-seven Colorado in the most anticipated match-up of the weekend. 'Jhis has been the most exciting series over the past two years, with Colorado winning on the last play of the game in MiChi- gan two seasons ago with a Hail Mary pass from KordeH Stewart 'to wide receiver Michael Westbrook. Last year, Michigan suivived a last .second Hail Mary and won tbe game by a touch- down. This was the last game of the series, and Michigan ended the drama of any last-second thriller with a tenacious defense and an efficient offense. With the victory, the Wolverines moved into the top . ten of the USA Today/ESPN, at number nine. A question r~mains, though. Ca~ they continue their great,play against one of.thehard- .. est scheClules iii college footb;ill? . In the last four years, Michigan has not seen the roses of Pasadena~ fin- ishing with a less-than .. steUar record. Michigan has something to prQve to themselves and to the . rest of college football. Critics have said that the program has taken a step down in the past sev- eral years and is unable to get the . blue-chip prospects like it used to. This has the possibility of being a memorableseason for the Wolver- ines and their fans, but a nightmar- ish schedule still remains. There were also some surprises in the NFL this past Sunday, none more so than the Buccaneers' move to 3-0 with a spanking .of previously unbeaten Minnesota in Minneapolis. Tampa Bay opened Renee Lynn Belair Stacie Lee Rogers Best friends. Graduated togethe1;)une 6, 1993. Killed togethe:r,June 10. 1993. Whitewater. WI If you don't stop someone from driving drup.k, who will? Do whatever it takes. FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK. their season with a big victory over the 49ers, and they have gained more and more momentum, led by a very stingy defense which in- cludes defensive tackle Warren Sapp, the early candidate for de- fensive player of the year. On the offensive side ofthe ball, they are led by the superb running of rookie Wartick Dunn, who will win Rookie of the Year, and the bruis- ing style of fullback Mike Alstott. Trent Dilfer \the quarterback\ has finally come into his own, and the interception is no longer his Achil- les heel. He has not thrown an in- terception this season. The Bucs have easily been the biggest sur- prise of this early' season, and the battle of the Bays will be an ea- gerly anticipated match-up for the first time in many years. In case you missed it late Satur- day night at the Thomas & Mack Center in Las Vegas, Oscar De La Hoya remained unbeaten by thor- oughly spanking Hector Camacho all over the ring and winning a 12- round unanimous decision. The raw power of De La Hoya and the old 35-year-old legs of Camacho were the two biggest factors that contributed to the easy decision De La Hoya scored o\Ver the \Macho Man.\ Less than 30 seconds into the fight Oscar nailed his chal- lenger, who staggered backwards. This was only a sign of things to come. The champion hit him with everything he had, including up- percuts that stunned Camacho and bruising body shots that took their toll over the course of the fight. In the ninth round, De La Hoya knocked the challenger down for only the second time in his career. In the latter rounds, Camacho was just trying to survive at all costs . The decision was very anti-climac- tic with two of three judges scor- ing every round for De La Hoya. We're back! Sully and Queen! Primetime Sports! Each and every Monday night from 7-9 PM. We are taking your phone calls and discussing any sports topic, either Union related or national. So, tune in and listen to Primetime Sports on Monday nights from 7-9 PM on 89.7 FM WRUC. Thanks Leone ... Football 9120 WPI 1:00 Men's Soccer 9/20 @Hobart 2:00 Women's Soccer 9/23 @Hamilton 4:00 Women's Tennis 9/19 @Clarkson 3:30 9/20 @ St. Lawrence 1:00 Field Hockey 9/20 MOUNT HOLYOKE 5:00 Volleyball 9/20 Union Invitational lOAM Men's and Women's Cross Coun-try 9/20 @ Williams Invy 12:00 Write For Sports Sully and Queen are despe~a:te. Contact the Concordy at x6l55. ....

Union Soccer Teams Undefeated Aft,er First Weekend! New Coach, New Attitude Lead to Men's Soceer Tournament Victory By David Weiner Contributin!; Writer Last year's men's soccer team was forced to deal with numerous close games and tough losses, leaving them with a .final record of six wins, eight losses, and one tie. This disappointing finish was just one of many the program has endured over the past five or six inconsistent years. In attempts to find a method to winning seasons, the team has restructured itself and has endured two grueling weeks of preseason in order to reach a point where new coach Jeff Guinn expects the team to be playing contests long after the regular season is complete. Although this year's team is quite youthful, carrying only two seniors, they have a wealth of ex- perience as they return 13 players, including six starters from last year's team. Those returning players inc! ude Jeff Thomas, Steven Baumgartner, Craig Ellman, Bryn Heath, Timothy Powers, Christopher Estefani, Ryan Cohen,·· Dave Martin, Ibrahim Adamu, Matthew Bazyldo, Harr:Y Welsh, Michael Cook, and Bryan Roy. Having played together the previous year, these returnees will continue to Jearn each other's playing habits and mold into a11 effective offen- sive and defensive unit. Accompanying these talented returning players are ten freshmen and two seniors who all success- fully survived the difficult pre- season and hope to help carry the team deep into the playoffs. Union Invitational Opening their season in style, the men won their first two games and captured the Union Invita:- tional trophy with victories over Manhattanville and Geneseo. Led by team captains Ibrahim Adamu '99 and Mathew Bazydlo '99, the entire squad played a superb first- round game and captured a 4-0 win over Manhattanville then re- bounded and struggled through some fatigue to fend off Geneseo 3-1 in the finals. Coach Guinn was extremely pleased with the team's perfor- mance in the opener against Manhattanville. Throughout the team's two weeks of practice, he continually expressed the philoso- phy he wanted used in the team's attack during the season. From the opening kickoff unti I the final whistle, the Union team executed coach Guinn's philosophy to a 'T,\ and that is what led them to victory. Leading by example, Adamu powered home three ofthe team's four goals Saturday, getting his season offto a miraculous start and displaying why he was chosen as one of the team's co-captains. Steven Baumgartner, one of the team's key returning players, also blasted home a goal of his own. The success of their strategy ver- sus Manhattanville was a perfect way to open their season and boosted the men's confidence as they headed into Sunday's final. Soccer is a physically grueling sport. Any time a team has to play ~games on consecutive days there is the tendency for fatigue and a bit of sloppiness, and the final game of this tournament was no exception. Coach Guinn showed some understanding towards this fatigue, but also disgust in the fact that his team was seemingly outplayed by their opponent Geneseo University. However, he was quite pleased with the spirit Women Go 2-0 and Win Their Tournament By Geoff Sullivan Sports Editor Experience was a major ques- tion mark for skeptics of the Union College Women's Soccer team--a team made up of 17 freshman and sophomores--going into the sea- son. After two·impressive victo- ries over Southern Vermont and Western New England College this past weekend, the young Dutchwomen answered the skep- tics' questions by winning the Union Invitational Tournament.. In the first game,junior Autumn Renn and sophomore Abby Har- ris each had two goals, as Union Katie Hayes ilelps kick soccer to victory. (Photo By Laurie Kirsch iter) defeated Southern Vermont, 7-0. Head coach Brian Speck was very pleased by his team's perfor- mance. He said, \It was a good first match for us. It allowed us to have success and gave the girls confidence. The team executed well throughout the game.\ Tri- Captain Julie Barton agreed, say- ing, \There were great combos. all over the field. Both the offense and defense played extremely solid throughout the game.\ Along with Barton, the defense was anchored by sophomores Jaymee Wilson and Liz Schmidt. Each player shut down the South- ern Vermont offense, limiting the attack to very few serious shots. In the championship game ver- sus Western New England Col- lege, who had defeated Manhattanville the day before, the Union defense again shut down the opponent's offense; however, this game was more of a struggle than the previous one. Tri·Captain Julie Barton felt that \in the first half, we weren't playing our game. We got sucked into the opponent's game plan.'' Towards the end of the first half, freshman Julie Continue~ on Page 19 Union sl!owed in thei:r ability to fight tha.i fatigue &nd to ]pUll ·olit a victory despite being out:sllot. The key to this close win was goaolkeeper Jeff Tho111!ts~ who made a number of spectacular sa'Ves to preserve the victory. With the opening toltlrnament Olltofthe way,this team 11as a long a11;d ex: citing schedule facing them. Coaoeh Guinn knows his nun are a better team than last year;s, and he e1epects them to do alo:t metter. As he says, \Any soccer season is about one-goal games, and this is no different.\ His high aspirations for the team will give them confi- dence throughout the season. The expectation is to earn a place in the ECAC playoff, and they hope is to reach the NCAA National tour- nament. If last weekend's perfor- mances are any indication of what is to come, this could be a enjoy- able and extremely successful sea- son. • a . . I u rna) Ion~ me11 1-4 call: whi tom gan and win B enc1 req1 wee rate win on!: WOI oft E spe1 on the: orit trip tot 1 ben nor abr ,. j Vi< anc Un brc eV( Sci COl Un for the anc Ian an. wh ho Th va1 be1 an' fo1 bo scl W< fo the of ffi4 -

Union Soccer Teams Undefeated After First Weekend! New Coach, New Attitude Lead to Men's Soccer Tournament Victory By iJavid \Veiner Contrihuti11g Writer Last year's men's soccer team was forced to deal with numerous close games and tough losses, leaving them with a final record of six wins, eight losses, and one tie. This disappointing finish \'lets just one of man} the program has cndun:J O\ cr thL\ past fi\c or ,i.\ in con ~ist~nt) car~. In attl:mpts to fi 11d a method to winning seasons, the team has restnHtl:lred ibelfand has endun:d two grueling \\ ccks of preseasl)Il in order to reach a point where new coach Jeff Guinn expects the team to be playing contests long after the regular season is complete. Although this year's team is quite 1 (JLJthfuL carrying onl) two senillrs. they have a wealth of ex- perience as they return 13 players. induding si.\ starters from last year's team. Those returning pl<t)ers include Jeff Thomas. Stncn 13aum_gartner, Craig Ellman. Bryn !Ieath. Timothy Powers, Christopher Estefani, Ryan Cohen, ·Dave t\1artin, Ibrahim Adamu. Matthew Bazy ldo. !larry Welsh. Michael Cook, and Brya11 Roy. Having played together the previous year. these returnees will continue to learn each other's playing habits and rnold into an effective offen- sive and defensive unit. Accompanying these talented returning players are ten freshmen and two seniors who all success- fully survived the difficult pre- :::.ca~on and llope to hcl p l:arry the team deep into the playoffs. Union Invitational Opening their season in style, the men won their first two games and captt1red the Union Invita- tiol1al tmphy with victories over Manhattanville and Geneseo. Led by team captains Ibrahim Adarnu '99 and \lath\!\\ 13at)dlo '99, the entire squad play c:d a superb first- round game ~tnd captured a 4-0 win over \1anhattanville then re- buun<kd and ~truggld thrtlugh snmc fatigue to fend off Geneseo 3-1 in the finals. Coach Guinn was extremely pleased with the team's perfor- mance in the opener against 1\lanhattan\'i lie. Throughout the team's Mo Vv~eks of pradice, he cnntinually expressed the philoso- phy he wanted used in the team's attack durin~ the season. From the opening kickoff until the final whistle. the l'nion team executed coach <.iuinn' s philosophy to a ·· r.\ and that i ~ \\hat led them to \idory. Leading by example, Adamu powered home three o fthe team's four goals Saturday. getting his season ofT to a miraculous start and displaying why he was chosen as one of the team's co-captains. Steven Baumgartner. one of the team's key returning players, also blasted home a goal of his own. The success of their strategy ver- sus Manhattanville was a perfect way to open their season and boosted the men's confidence as they headed into Sunday's final. Suphomore Bryn Heath hurdles an opponent en route to a victory this weekend. (Photo By Laurie Kirschner) Soccer is a physically grueling Union showed in their ability to he says, \Any soccer season is sport. Any time a team has to play fight that fatigue and to pull out a about one-goal games, and this is games on consecutive days there victory despite being outshot. The no different.\ His high aspirations is the tendency for fatigue and a key to this close win was for the team will give them confi- bit of sloppiness, and the final goaolkeeper Jeff Thomas, who dence throughout the season. The game of this tournament was no made a number of spectacular expectation is to earn a place in the exception. Coach Guinn showed saves to preserve the victory. ECAC playoff, and they hope is some understanding towards this With the opening tournament to reach the NC' AA National tour- fatigue, but also disgust in the fact out ofthe way, this team has a long nament. lflast weekend's perfor- that his team was seemingly andexcitingschedulefacingthem. mancesareany indication ofwhat outplayed by their opponent Coach Guinn knows his men are a is to come, this could be a enjoy- Geneseo University. However, he better team than last year's, and he able and extremely successful sea- was quite pleased with the spirit expects them to do a lot better. As son. Women Go 2-0 and Win Their Tournament Strong Finish Lifts Football Over Gritty Saints By GeoffSullivan Sports Editor I:>,perience was a major ques- tion n1ark for skeptics of the Union College Women's Soccer team--a team made up of I 7 freshman and so ph ()rnores--go i11g into the sea- son. After two impressive victo- ries over Southern Vermont and Western New England College this past weekend. the young Dutchwo1nen answered the skep- tics· questions by winning the Union Invitational Tournament. In the first game, junior Autumn Renn and sophomore Abby Har- ris each had two goals, as Union Katie Hayes helps kick soccer to victory. (Photo By Laurie Kirschner) defeated Southern Vermont, 7-0. Head coach Brian Speck was very pleased by his team's perfor- mance. He said, \It was a good first match for us. It allowed us to have success and gave the girls confidence. The team executed we II throughout the game.\ Tri- Captain Julie Barton agreed, say- ing. 'There were great combos all over the field. Both the offense and defense played extremely solid throughout the game.\ Along with Barton, the defense was anchored by sophomores Jaymee Wilson and Liz Schmidt. Each player shut down the South- ern Vermont offense, limiting the attack to very few serious shots. In the championship game ver- sus Western New England Col- lege, who had defeated f\1nnhattanville the day before, the Union defense again shut down the opponent's offense; however, this game was more of a struggle than the previous one. Tri-Captain Julie Barton felt that \in the first half, we weren't playing our game. We got sucked into the opponent's game plan.\ Towards the end of the first half, freshman Julie Continued on Page 19 By Fn:nll< Rossi Editor .. in .. Chief Senior Denton Randolph said th1:1t during halftime, he Wl:ls havin flashbacks of the \St. Lawrence Sutpris~\ from two years ago. Thos flashbacks came to a screeching halt when sophomore defensive bad oe Attanasio took the second~halfkickoff 90 yards for his first caree ouchdown. The Onion Dutchmen never looked back, beating the St awrence Saints 27-12. The kickoff return not only gave the Dutchmen a 13·12 lead, but i also silenced a vocal Homecoming Crowd; sensing a repeat of St awrence's 1995 9-8 victory over the Dutchmen. Attanasio, who als registered four tackles on the day, was modest about his contributions \It takes 11 guys to score a touchdown. There w~ some great block ing up front. It was teammates doing it for rne, not just me.\ A Tale ()(Two Halves The only thing the Dutchmen won in the first half was the coin toss fter choosing to go on defense, St, Lawrence immediately went into three-man back-field. The offense, much different from the one use· in a 42-0 loss to the Dutchmen last se::J.Son, exploited the new 4-3 de fense the Dutchmen installed for this se::J.Son. The Saints' initial drive looked to be stopped ne::J.r mid-field, but o a fourth and two, Union jumped off~side, giving St. Lawrence secort life. The Saints converted that opportunity into sixpoints(with amisse xtra point) on the 13th play of their drive. Union responded with their own sustained drive, going two for tw .. n fourth-down conversions. The second of those conversions was utsy fourth and twelve can from the St. Lawrenve 30\'yard line. Jun ior quarterback Tom McKeown· found senior receiver Ryan Smith i · Conibmetl on 1'ttge 2li ! = ( ma lor me 1-~ cal wh tor ga1 an4 WI en' re< we rat wi on W( of or tri to be nc ab v ar u br e' S1 Cl u It: th aJ Ia aJ \\ h< r v: aJ fc b sc \\ [4 tl 0 n •

I . Page4 Sports: Football Goes 2-0 Page 24 •• 1 ·The Student Newspaper of·Union (;ollege Since 1877 . Volm'nc C~XVILNup1ber 11 . · ·. · . Schcn(\'~ta.dy~ Nev~· Y-m~k · . · . - . ··September 2~,:{997. ' ' ' ' ' • • ' _, t • • ' • Is a 4-1-4 Calendar in Store? by Mike DeMicco Staff Writer Union's current trimester system may not be in effect for much longer. There has been a move- ment to make a transition to the 4- 1-4 system, which would drasti- cally alter the current schedule to which we have become so accus- tomed. The basic structure is or- ganized on two thirteen-week fall and spring terms, with a four-week winter term. Both fall and spring terms would encompass four classes that would require attendance five days a week. There would also be a sepa- rate week for testing. During the winter or \J-terrr'l students would only take one class, one which would require a high investment of time. tration is unsure. Theplarts are too preliminary to offer .definite de- tails, but there will be some form of a cost increase. Othertn onetary proolems would arise for people that live within flying range of the co11ege. Thanksgiving would now be separated from the winter break, which wouldmeanthat two additional tickets would be neces- sary in order to spend the holiday at home. That could cost any- where from $400 to $ 10 00. Because of its short time period, special intensity could be achieved on one specific topic. Many of these topics would be fieldwork- oriented, such as scientific field trips or short language programs to help with terms abroad. Professor Heinegg addresses st~tdents on a gorgeous autumn day (Dave Meguerdichian I Tq. There are many more benefits and drawbacks that will require deliberation. The question that most people are probably a.sking- \ls this really going to happen?\- on ly can be answered VJ ith \not definitely.\ Dean Bradley Lewis of the A cad em ic Advismy Coun- cil says that after many years, they have decided that \this is the one pessibility that might work\ The idea is now transformi11g into a formal proposal. This system would offer some benefits academically as well a:s non-academically. First, the terms abroad program would coinciqe with other schools continentally and internationally. This would increase our ability to offer more programs, especially for students with majors in the sciences. Secondly, our sports programs could be restructured in order to coordinate better with schools that are not on the trimester system. The End Is In Sight. byNeha Shah & Nick Papanickolas Staff Writers According to Joe Mammola, Vice President ofPublic Relations and Alumni Affairs, ground for the Union College Boathouse could be broken in eight to ten days. How- ever, for this to occur the city of Schenectady must approve the contract of sale. This constitutes Union's payment of $48,000.00 for the land (which is only part of the $375,000 cost for the project) and the transfer of the title of the land to Union College. This is exciting news for the anxiously awaiting crew team, which has been anticipating a boat- house for more than four years. The crew team, which just attained varsity statu$ as of July 1,1997, has been using Aqueduct's boathouse and dock in the town ofN iskayuna for their practices and regattas. A boathouse would greatly facilitate scheduling of practice times and would provide greater protection for the boats and equipment~ thereby allowing; the development of the varsity program to proceed more smoothly and successfully. INSIDE: As of the end of the spring term of 1997, the projected date of completion of the boathouse was for the early weeks of the '97 fall term. The journey towards the boathouse, however, has been a long process that has met with · some bureaucratic difficulties. The first hurdle for the Union boathouse project began on Front . Street in Schenectady. This area, where the boathouse will be built, is part of a historical district; there- fore, the Schenectady zoning board had to first approve the sale of public land. Once the land was cleared for sale, it had to be ap- praised by various organizations. Union College had tQ assess the drainage of the area and look for possible damage to the land. Then, the ecological effects of a boat- . house had to be studied. Ecologi- cal concerns ranged from the in- ti\oduction of fill (needed to level the building), the traffic that the team would generate, and the ef- fect of the dock on the river. In addition, the history ofthe land had to be studied carefully for the re- covery of arrowheads, musket-. balls, and other possibie artifacts. continued on page 5 Campus News., ................................. 2 News ................................................. 3 Another major advantage for stu- dents would be our calendar, which would ending on May 23rd. This would correct many problems $tudents confront when attempting to find summer jobs and intern- ships. The latter are just a few of the benefits that would result from the 4-1-4 system. However, there are some drawbacks that would occur along with the transition. One problem that would arise would be -that each term would cost around $200,000 more than it currently does. This cost would come from our tuition. Would this be a one- time, up front fee? The adminis- Theturnoverforsuch a change, were it enacted immediately, would be a bare minimum of two years. Juniors and seniors need not worry. Sophomores ·and freshmen have the opportunity to ask ques- tions and become involved in the decision. Union ''Hams\ It Up With David Letterman by Anjali Balasinghan Staff Writer On Monday, September 22, 90 Union students took a day off and went down to New York City to see a taping of The Late Show with David Letterman. Union was se- lected by the show itself to repre- sent New York State's Capital Dis- trict, according to Dean Schurick. Rohit Sang, Assistant to the Audi- ence Coordinator at The Late Show, who informed her that the show was trying to gather studio audiences in 1 2 specific geo- graphic areas across the nation, contacted her office. The Capital District was one of these areas, and Sang, impressed with Union, had asked his producers if it could be the designated representative of the region. Sang had heard good things about Union from family friends, and had investigated it when he applied to college. He said that Dean Schurick \reacted enthusias- tically\ to the idea ofhaving Union Chosen Dave fans board the bus to New York City (Aileen Quf;gteyffC) st,udents be part of the studio au- diebce, and that she made a spe- cific effort to make the trip a real- ity. Vinnie Favale, another repre- sentative of the show, said that Letterman gets requests from col- leges to obtain audience spots all the time, and that \he wanted to show his appreciation\ for the col continued 011 page 3 National News!Science&Technology .. 1 A)l'fS & Entertainment ............................. ! 8 Op-ed ................................................. 8 Features ........................................... /2 Sports ..................................................... '!4

News: Features: Sports: Student Forum Unites Page .t The Art of Saying ''Hi\ Page 15 Footba II C oes 2-0 Page 2-t Is a 4-1-4 Calendar in Store? by Mike DeMicco Staff Writer Union's cunent trimester systeru may not be in effect for much longer. There has been a move- ment to make a transition to the 4- 1-4 system, which would drasti- cally alter the current schedule to which we have become so accus- tomed. The basic structure is or- ganized on two thirteen-week fall and spring terms, with a four-week winter term. Both fall and spring terms would encompass four classes that would require attendance five days a week. There would also be a sepa- rate week for testing. During the winter or \J-term students would only take one class, one which would r(;quire a high investment of time. tration is unsure. The plans are too preliminary to offer definite de- tails, but there will be some form of a cost increase Other monetarv problems would arise for reorle that live within flying range oft he college. Thanksgiving would nm\ be separatL>J frtlln the wint..·r break, v.hich \\uuld nH.:an that l\\(1 additional tickets would be neces- sary in order to spend the holiday at home. That could cost any- where from $400 to $1000. Because of its short time period, special intensity could be achieved on one specific topic. Many of these topics would be fieldwork- oriented, such as scientific field trips or short language programs to help with terms abroad. Professor Heinegg addresses students on a gorgeous autumn day (Dave Meguerdichia11 I TC). There are many more benefits and drawbacks that will require deliberation. The question that most people are probably asking \'Is this really going to happen'.'\-- only can be answered with \not definitely.\ Dean Bradley Lewis ofthe Academic Advisory Coun- cil says that after many years, they have decided that \this is the one pessibility that might work.\ The idea is now transforming into a formal proposal. This system would offer some benefits academically as well as non-academically. First, the terms abroad program would coincide with other schools continentally and internationally. This would increase our ability to offer more programs, especially for students with majors in the sciences. Secondly, our sports programs could be restructured in order to coordinate better with schools that are not on the trimester system. The End Is In Sight by Neha Shah & Nick Papanickolas Staff Writers According to Joe Marnmola, Vice PresidentofPublic Relations and Alumni Affairs, ground for the Union College Boathouse could be broken in eight to ten days. How- ever, for this to occur the city of Schenectady must approve the contract of sale. This constitutes Union's payment of $48,000.00 for the land (which is only pm1 of the $3 7 5,000 cost for the project) and the tram fer of the title of the land to Union College. This is exciting news for the anxiously a\\aiting crew team. \dHch has bc~:n anticipating a boat· house for more than four years. I' he crew team, which just attained varsity status as of July l, 1997, has been using Aqueduct's boathouse and dock in the town of Niskayuna for their practices and regattas. A boathouse would greatly facilitate scheduling of practice times and would provide greater protection for the boats and equipment, thereby allowing the development of the varsity program to proceed more smoothly and successfully. As of the end of the spring term of 1997, the projected date of completion ofthe boathouse was for the early weeks of the '97 fall term. The journey towards the boathouse, however, has been a long process that has met with some bureaucratic difficulties. The first hurdle for the Union boathouse project began on Front Street in Schenectady. This area, where the boathouse will be built, is part of a historical district; there- fore, the Schenectady zoning board had to first approve the sale of pub I ic land. Once the land was cleared for sale, it had to be ap- praised by various organizations. Union College had tQ assess the Jrainage of the area and look for po~sible damage to the land. Then, the ecological effects of a boat· hou~e had to be studied. Ecologi- cal concerns ranged from the in- troduction of fill (needed to level the building), the traffic that the team would generate, and the ef- fect of the dock on the river. In addition, the history of the land had to be studied carefully for the re- covery of arrowheads, musket- balls, and other possible artifacts. continued on page 5 Campus News .................... -..... ...... . 2 News....... . ........ ... . .. .............. 3 Another major advantage for stu- dents would be our calendar, which would ending on May 23rd. This would correct mmy problems students confront when attempting to find summer jobs and intern- ships. The latter are just a few of the benefits that would result from the 4-l-4 system. However, there are some drawbacks that would occur along with the transition. One problem that would arise would be that each term would cost around $200,000 more than it currently does. This cost would come from our tuition. Would this be a one- time, up front fee? The adminis- The turnover for such a change. were it enacted immediately, would be a bare minimum oftwo years. Juniors and seniors need not worry. Sophomores and freshmen have the opportunity to ask ques- tions and become involved in the decision. Union \Hams\ It Up With David Letterman by Anjali Balasinghan Staff Writer On Monday, September 22, 90 Union students took a day off and went down to New York City to see a taping of The Late Show with David Letterman. Union was se- lected by the show itself to repre- sent New York State· s Capital Dis- trict, according to Dean Schmick. Rohit Sang. Assistant to the Audi- ence Coordinator at The !.ate Show, \vho informed her that the show \Vas trying to gather studio audiences in 12 ~reci fie geo- graphic areas acrm~ the nation, contacted her office. The Capital District was one of these areas, and Sang, impressed with Union, had asked his producers if it could be the designated representative of the region. Sang had heard good things about Union from family friends, and had investigated it when he applied to college. He said that Dean Schurick \reacted enthusias- tically\ to the idea of having Union Chosen Dave fans board the bus to New York City (Ailee11 Quigh~r.ITO students be part of the studio au- diehce, and that she made a spe- cific effort to make the trip a real- ity. Vinnie Favale, another repre· sentative of the show, said that Lettem1an gets requests fi·om co I· leges to obtain audience spots all the time, and that \he wanted to shmv his appreciation\ for the col continued on page 3 National News/Science& Technology. -:' Arts & Entertai11ml'11t .'·iports ... 18 :l.J Op-ed. ........................................ .. 8 Features ............................. -· _ ........ 12

J>a.ge.2 • September 25, 1997 • 0011~ m~lllCL1rb.ictt5fs . ' . ' . .' . ' ' . ' Campus News Campus Security Info DATE/TIME UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTM.ENT WF..EKL Y INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, SEPTEMBER IS THROTJGHSUNDAV, SEP'fEMBER21, 1997 LOCA'tlON INCIDENT MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997: 1:46AM Fox House area TRESP' ASS: Visitor digging ttlrough dumpster looking 3:42AM 6:10AM 1:18PM 2:10PM Fox House area Alexander Lane Schaffer Library Edwards House for recyclables. Identified and advised off campus. TRESt» ASS: Visitor wandering eampus looking for · · recyclables. Identified and advised off cam pus. PROFERT¥ DAMAGE: Lock on barrier chain broken. TRESP'ASS: Visitor loitering in basement of library. Subject refused to identity himself and was escorted off campus. VANEAUSM~ Window broken. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1997: No serious incidents reported. WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1997: 9:50 PM Fox House VANElft\LlSM.: Courtesy phone at south entry damaged,.wires pulled out of phon~. 11:35 PM Olin Site TRESP'ASS: Group walking insi<le of construction area. Fled when appr(Jached, . THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1997: 12:49 AM West College TBEFr: Pizza vendor reported the theft of a pizza from his unlocked vehicle. l :29 AM Fox House IIEAILI'li HAZARD: Used personal protective device 1:44AM 8:05AM 11:10 AM 4:00PM 7:45PM 9:21PM 10:41PM South College Bailey Field left on student's door -third floor hall. VANDALISM: Window broken on third floor. VANDALISM/SAFETY HAZARD: Power control box for Bailey Field lights was broken open-box cover destroyed. Persons 11nknown also pulled power wiring loose from inside the IJox. Psi·Upsilon PROI-E.RTY MISSING:. 1997 fraternity composite photo and frame takell from lounge area. S&E & Humanities UN\UriiORIZED ACCESS: OCS reports that several faculty and staff office computers were accessed wjthout authorization and each case resulted in corruption/loss of data files. Incidents occurred over the last two weeks. Richmond area SUSPICIOUS PERSONS: Student reports suspicious contact with two juveniles who engaged her in conversation and then ran off when other students approached. No untoward action/incident occurred. Alexander Lane PROP'E.RTY DAMAGE: Lock on barrier chain broken. Wade Lupe NOlSE COMPLAINT: Non-student resident of apartment complex called to lodge noise complaint against student occupants. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1997: 10:53 PM Reamer Center DIS()~IlERLY CONDUCT/HARASSMENT: Students 10:07 AM 11:25 PM creating a disturbance at Chet's. Became abusive toward staff members when asked to leave. Conduct Charges filed. Nott Seward Lot SUSJliCIOtJS PERSON: Visitor making unusual, non threatening, remarks to staff member. Subject was apparently mentally cltallenged, escorted off campus. Becker Hall PR()fE~l'Y MISSING: Flower pot stolen from east side of Admissions building. SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 20,1997: 2:07 AM South Lane area PR()P:£RT\' DAMAGE: Student's car driven across lawn causing turf damage. Vehicle abandoned in non-parking area•ocoupants fled. 10:58 AM Campus. Grounds ·TRE.SJlASS: Vendor attempting to sell electronic equipment on campus without authorization. Subject i<lentified and advised off campus. 6:53PM Humanities UNA..lJT'HORIZED ENTRY: Student enteril,lg locked SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER21, 1997: 12:04 AM Fox North 12:48 AM West College building through windcw. Identified and advised. V A.N];ALISM: Glass in entry door broken. SU:B:SI'A:NCE ABUSE: Studellt IJecame ill due to alcohol consumption. Paramedics notified, student transported to Ellis Hospital. Conduct Charges filed. 1:27AM Chi Psi Tlf&F1': Student's room key arid ID stolen from his 6:31PM back pack during social event. Suspect fled building. West College area TRESFASSIPROPERTY DAMAGE: Visitor allowed Pit Bull to chew up tree limb. When confronted· by campus officer subject refused to identity himself, made veiled threats t() <lfficer regarding the.dog and fled campus. Believed to be same subject who previously threatened to have the dog attack another campus officer. SPD/Animal control notified. This Week's Campus Anouncements An ad-hoc committee has been faMed to consider the tenurabHity of Scott Scullion, Assistant Professor of Classics. The committee members are Mark Toher (Classics), William Garcia (Modern Lan- guages), John Garver (Geology), and James Underwood (Political Science), Chair. Any metnber of the campus community wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Pro:fiessor Scullion's teaching, scholarship, or college service should contact Professor Underwood (extension 6225, underwoj@gar.union.edu) or any other member of the committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurahility of Hugh Jenkins~ Assistant Professor of English. The committee members are Peter Heinegg (English), Victoria Martinez (Modern Languages), R. Alan Bowman{GMI), and Alan Taylor (Mathemat- ics), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to of- fer written or oral te.stimony concerning Professor Jenkins' teach- ing, scholarship, or college service should contact Professor Taylor {extension 6197, taylora@gar.1,mion.edu) or any other member of the committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Brenda Johnson, Assistant Professor of Mathematics. The com- mittee, members are Julius Barbane1 (Mathematics), Daniel Bums (Psychology), ~onney MacDonald (English), and J. Richard Shaiiebrook (Mechanical Engineering), Chair. Any member of the campus yommunity yvishing to offer written or oral testimony con- cerning ·Professor Johnson's teaching, scholarship, or college ser- vice should contact Professor Shanebrook (extension 626~, shanebrr@gar.union.edu) or any other member of the committee. .. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Ann Anderson, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering. The committees members are Richard Wilk (Mechanical Engineer- ing), John Spinelli (EE/CS), Kurt Hollocher (Geology), and Sharon Gmelch (Anthropology), Chair. Any member of the campus com- munity wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Pro- fessor Anderson's teaching, scholarship, or college service should contact Professor Gmelch (extension 6715, gmelchs@gar.union.edu) or any other member of the committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Barbara Danowski, Assistant Professor of Biology. The com- mittee members are Barbara Boyer (Biology), David Hemmendinger (EE/CS), Sigrid Kellenter (Modern Languages), and Kenneth DeBono (Psychology), Chair. Any member of the campus commu- nity wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Danowski§s teaching, scholarship, or college service should con- tact Professor DeBono (extension 6542, debonok@gar.union.edu) or any other member of the committee. ~ An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of James McWhirtei, Assistant Professor of Physics. The commit- tee members are Kenneth Schick (Physics), Ekram Hassib (EE/CS), Jan Ludwig (Philosophy), and Petet Tobiessen (Biology), Chair. Any member of the campus community wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor McWhirter's teaching, schol- arship, or college service should contact Professor Tobiessen (ex- tension 6028, tobiessp@gar.union.edu) or any other member of the committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Mary Carroll, Assistant Professor of Chemistry. The committee members are Charles Scaife (Chemistry), John Boyer (Biology), Frank Milillo (Mechanical Engineering), and Ruth Stevenson (En- glish), Chair. Any member of the campus·community wishing to offer written or oral testimony concerning Professor Carroll's teach- ing, scholarship, or college service should contact Professor Stevenson (extension 6206, stevensr@gar.union.edu) or any other member of the committee. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to con~ider the tenurability of Anthony Rubonis, Assistant Professor of Psychology. The com- mittee members are Suzanne Benack (Psychology), Seyfollal:t Maleki (Physics), Mario Rivera (Mechanical Engineering),. and Donald Arnold (GMI), Chair. Any memberofthe campus community wish- ing to offer written or oral testimo.ny concerning Professor Rubonis' ·teaching, scholarship; ~r college service should contact Professor Arnold (extension 6302) or any other member of the committee. I ,. ~ 'I

.. , ·' Ath:ertiscmcnt ·. . . . · . uJp· <£onc~1roicnsis • Scptcn~.ber 25, 1997 • Page 3 As a leader in software c ~ nsultinc, K . . . eane IS p•sttt ne \ . for a powerful future . Are You? stablished in 1965, Keane is a ~ationally recognized leader in ..._..the software services industry and is positioned for a powerful future. To position yourself, consider a career with us. All entry-level consul- tants receive company-paid software development training. Held at our Corporate office in Boston, Massa- chusetts, the intensive team·oriented training includes both technical and non .. technical sections, as well as instruction in Keane .. s structured n1ethodology for project management. Upon successful completion of the pro- gram, graduates join one of our 40 branch offices and provide software consulting support to an area client. Opportunities are available nation- wide, including many positions in New York, New Jersey, and Philadelphia. To be considered for employment, can- ~idates must have a Bachelor,s degree and be bright, articulate, and well- rounded .. A G.P.A. of 3.0 or higher is required. An MIS or Computer Science degree is preferred but not .required. All majors are welcome to apply .. Keane offers competitive salaries and benefits including ongoing company-paid techni- cal training, tuition reimbursement, paid vacations/holidays, health/dental insurance, and comprehensive savings and investment plans - including a company-matched 401 (k) plan and stock purchase options. Visit our home page at www.keane.com to learn more about us. Keane is on campus today for the Career Fair and will be returning to meet with candidates on Tuesday, October 14. Stop by our booth and position yourself for a powerful future. If you miss us_, send a resume to our Corporate office: Keane, Inc., Attn: Dept .. 601ADS96, Ten City Square, Boston, MA 02129; Phone: 1-800 ... 74KEANE, ext. 2813; Fax: 1-800-544- 0157, ~ttn: Dept. 601ADS96. An equal opportunity employer, m/fld/v. l j 1' .l ' J '. '

Student Forum Unites at Camp Chingacook by Ed Dombroski Contributing Writer This past weekend, the members of Student Forum conducted busi- ness in a rather unique way. Leav- ing behind the usual day to day operations of governing the stu- dent body, lnembers instead opted to strap on backpacks and llead for the mountains--more specifically' the Adirondacks. Gathering at the YMCA Camp Chingacook on Lake George, 18 of the campus representatives and vice presidents put aside their typical agendas and replaced them with climbing trees, swimming, and campfire stories. While at first this may appear to be a rather unusual approach to conducting the Forum's affairs, to organizers and pruticipants .it made perfect sense. Thei~eabehind this overnight excursioncame fiom the recently established Fontm Con- sultants, an oversight committee of students brought together to cri- tique the way in which the Forum was being run. Following months of evaluation, the consultants reached the conclusion that there were several areas in which the Forum could be run more effi- ciently. The root of many ofthe problems the student government was experiencing was \a lack of communication and inability to work together effectively,\ ac- cording to sophomore consultant Andy Markowski. In response, the group's recommendation for a weekend retreat Was designed to encourage communication and in- teraction between Forum mem- bers. Although bil'l'ed as an overnight camping trip, the excursionturned out to be an incredible bonding experience for most. Along with the s'mores and late night swims came an entire day of rigorous teamwork activities. Scaling walls and crawliag through narrow pas~ sages with on'l y the aid .of one's teammates ·encouraged partici- pants. to engage in \collective thinking.\ 'This group-oriented approach climaxed, however, with arguably the most challenging feat of the weekend--the high ropes course. Despite rain and gusting winds, participants were faced with the challenge of climbing trees, wallting tight ropes, and swinging in the air--all at heights reaching upwards of 30 feet. While careftil balance and good coordinati()n were important at- tributes of each participant, the essential element of success was the guidance and direction offered by teammates from the ground below. Without such encourage- ment, many believed that they ... Continued on pag~ 5 Letterman . .. continued from page 1 lege audiences who had been so good to him. The geographic ar- eas targeted also included cities in Pennsylvania and Connecticut. Favale pointed out that residents of these areas tend to not take advan- tage of the opportunity to appear in the audience because they're so close to New York City. 45 males, with 30 students left on the waiting list. The students left Union at 1 I : 15 AM and attended a reception lunch George Clooney and Bill Cosby. Chet' s hosted a party in honor ofihe event at 11 PM. Over 200 students, as well as local news channel 6, gathered there to watch the show at l l ; 3 0 . Sophomore A n d y Markowski, V ice-Presi- dent of Aca- demics, helped to or- ganize the party and the trip with Schmitt. Markowski also attended the taping and said of the experiM ence, \It was definitely a great trip. I was a little disap- pointed, as I think we all were, that [Letterman] didn't actu- ally mention The selec- tion process of student au- dience mem- bers was done through the Student Activities of-. fice. \We left v-oice- mailson everyone's mail boxes,\ said sopho- more Liz Schmitt, who helped to or- ganize the event. \We asked stu- dents to bring Rohit Sang, Assistant to the Audience Coordinator for The Late .SIIr~w that Union in index cards with their name and box number. 83 females and 59 males had signed up.\ The Student Activities office then conducted a random drawing of 45 females and with David Letterman (Aileen Quigley I TC). was in the at the Ed Sullivan restaurant in the audience.\ Nevertheless, studio. The taping began in the Markowski thought, \ Everyone famed theater at 5:30 PM and fin- had a great time. It was definitely ished at 6:35 PM. Letterman's good publicity for the school, too, guests for the evening were actors as far as beiilg on the news.\ Pornography vs. Free Speech by Lisa Pertoso Contributing Writet On Friday, September 26, the Women's Studies Center wel- comes philosopher Susan Dwyer ofMcGill University to discuss the poignant issue of pornography in. our society from a feminist per- spective. Her talk, co-sponsored by the Philosophy Department and the Women's Studies Program, will be held in Humanities 114 and will be followed by a reception in the Humanities faculty lounge on the second floor. All students and faculty are welcome and encour- agedto listen to Dwyer discuss the controversial issue of pornography vs. the right ()f free speech and to reevaluate their own personal views on t!te sul:>ject. For more detailed information, contac~ the Women's Studies Center, located in CC302 at extension 6423, or the Womyn's Union at extension 5889, a student group on campus created to raise awareness on is- sues concerning women. ·- B( Other as Anny C. took soil rnonitorc; essary tc nally, th1 approve docks al1 Once 1 \i\'as fini! to put up of the Ia vtas that stitution. neededt~ ruit. The college t tivities a: are cons: the ordir 1'he pern 2, 1997 i gust 11, proval o A p I c The s sponson lllock P; Thep1 perthe21 th.e trek sit, and could no out the mood. ~esi was tot in a casu October ing a ca1 The lntr sored by pus on ( tact Pet~ Greg At MarkG of the I. At B~ By ( Write pear at tember oftheN the auth tionshiF science book, a tic expl' be give1 7:30 Pl\ Barre alumna <>logy d author t

Campus News . · · . <!'lp~ Q:onrorl\irnsis • September 25, ]997 • Page_ 5 Boathouse ... continued from page 1 Other ass~ssments involved the Army Corps of Engineers, which took soil samples of the land_and monitored -the amount of fill nec- essary to level the building. Fi- na:lly, the Canal Authority had to approve of the placement of the docks along the riverside. Once the appraisal of the land was finished, Union College had to put up a bid as a potential buyer of the land. The reason for this WC:IS that Union is an academic in- stitution. Meanwhile, Union also needed to obtain a special use per- mit. The permit would allow the college to conduct the normal ac- tivities associated with rowing that are considered \special\ or out of the ordinary for typical land use. The penn it was applied for-on July 2, 1997 and was approved on Au- gust 1 1 , 1997. Due to the late ap- proval ofthe permit, the school's projected date of completion was pushed back. At this time, the city of Schenectady has accepted Union's bid as a buyer, and'both institutions have begun negetiations on the conditions of th~ deal. The terms that were agreed upon are as fol- lows: the city of Schenectady would pave the parking lot at the site, install appropriate lighting, and remove the somewhat-visible graffiti from the surrounding area. As of now, Union and the con- tractors ar:e waiting for the clos- ing on the property, which is, ac- cording to Joe Mammola, \in the process of taking place.\ The con- tractors are ready to begin upon a day's notice, and within approxi• mately 80 days from start to fin- ish, Union and its community wiH be able to enjoy this long awaited boathouse. All-Greek Block Party Prevails over Weather by Christina Rlto Contributing Writer The sisters of Delta Gamma sponsored their first \All-Greek Block Party\ this past Saturday. The poor weather did not ham- per the 200 or so Greeks who made the trek up-campus for food, mu- sit, and fun. The sporadic drizzle could not put out the flames, drown out the music, or dampen the mood. mood for the rest of the year. While the majority of the Greek organizations were represented at the barbecue by their individual letters, fraternization was not lim- ited to separate groups. This event was successful in that it not only reinforced but also demonstrated the ideals of unity within the Greek system. It's B-a-a-a-c-k ... Love Lines Retu.rns to· WR_UC 89 •. 7 fm by Erinn Gregg Staff Writer Thursday night, September 19th, crowds gathered to watch four teams battle it out in first round, including general ques- tions bc:tsed on factual information, with great enthusiasm. The contes- tants wrote the answers down and then showed them to the audience and to·thejudges. It was clear from the creative drawings and the an- detailed, giving most ofthe view• ers quite a laugh. Sophomore Jen Caruso agreed, saying, \The an- swers were very entertaining and det\mitely added to the enthusiasm ofthe crowd who came to support Love Lines.\ At the end of the order to be- round, it come the w a s new hosts of c I e a r I y the ever- going to p o p u I a r be a tough Love Lines decision on WRUC. for the The host of . judges. theevening, This was F r a n k · confirmed Rossi, be- when the gan by in- jud,ges an- troduc ing nounced the panel, after a which in- · · s h o r t Lisette Sand-Friedman & Jake Fruchterwin Love Lines. (Dave Meguerdichian lTC) eluded Jen- _;, _______________ ...,...._;...__ _ ___;;_ ____ ~ break that nifer Chick and Tom.Marino, Starr Roberts and Greg Auerbach, Elizabeth Malaspina and Jake Fruchter, and the sur- prise entry of Lisette Sand- Friedman and MarkSerio. Each pair was to partake in two rounds of questioning, and a decision was to be made at the end of the evening. The anxious panel began the swers that the groups were not fooling around. As the firstround came to a close, it was evident that the groups were fired up and ready to move on. · The second round tested each gro11p' s ability to answer questions spontaneously, questions simi- lar to those that would be asked by callers on the show. Both ques- tions .and answers were extremely they would be unable to make a decision that evening but would get the message out in a few days. After an eager wait, the choice was made and sent over voice mail. Lisette Sand-Friedman and Jake Fruchter had become the new hosts ofLove Lines on WRUC. Though not originally paired together, the pair proved to be the best for the job. Continued from page 4 ... would not be able to complete \the ii;\'i!~l~iJX·~!j'i~fi.~~'f/!diYt:!ilfi~l'!i:i~~:;;,;ifl/!/!l.f~&\f!A~;f'f;.fi.\'fj:?}t'ti ropes course . \ A. s sen i or Ruth i e The simple purpose ofthis event was to bring the Greeks together in a casual social setting to set the Ther~fore, with the continued support ofthe Inter-Fraternity and Pan.hellenic Councils, Delta Gamma hopes to make this Greek Block Party an annual event to encourage Greek unity throughout ~~~'!/lf.t~'!l'fJ~t~~~'/,~~1~ 1 ~ 1 f~~~St.:fr.;ififi:;,;;iJ~fft,~'fA'i:J~;~t;z;;~J;;~~;fJ;;1i'iiJJf!i~g\' . Strosberg said, \I was. terrified, I was shaking, l was sobbing. I would have fallen out of the tree 'i,J:! 1 ~l~§~l if these truly special people didn't the campus. October 19th-25th is Alcohol Awareness Week. The I.F.C. plans on hold- ing a campus event during this week. walk me through it step by step.\ The clear emergence of greater confidence and cooperative- ~~~ilf!'Yff,~~·;;;e,;:::~.>~'';1%('('ifl minded thinking amongst Forum members proves the value of this weekend experience. Reactions from most participants seem to in- dicate that they believe that this excursion has thus set Student Fo- The Intrafraternal newspaper, a new 8-12 page monthly paper spon- rum on the right footing for the sored by the I.F.C., will deliver its first issue to the Union College cam- l~it\:~:i'(~!lt::t 1 N:~di:>i:~;,;~l';'yi;~;,'!;f{.~'tf'';~~fj~£E\:':Ysi!ii;~i upcoming year. Whether it is de- pus on October 7th. If anyone is interested in writing for it, please con~ bating a budget or walking on a tact Pete Simon at 388-7020. tightrope, this year's members Greg Auerbach was elected as the new LF.C. treasurer. Mark Goloboy and Chad Stare were elected as the two new members ofthe I.F.C. Conduct Committee. Author and Alum Andrea Barrett Visits Classroom By Christina PeRsiero Contributing W,.iter Writer Andrea Barrett will ap- pear at Union on Monday, Sep- tembe'r 29 for \The Geography ofthe North,\ a lecture regarding the author's thoughts on the rela- tionship between creativity and science as it relates to her sixth book, a novel that deals with arc- tic exploration. The lecture will be given at the Nott Memorial at 7:30PM. Barrett, a Union College alumna who graduated with a bi- ology degree in 1974, is also the author of Ship Fever and Other Stories, a collection of short sto- ries which, like her current project; brings together the worlds of his- tory, science, and human experi- ence. Ship Fever, the winner of the National Book Award for fic- tion in 1996, was required read- ing for freshmen this year, and was discussed during Orientation ac- tivities earlier this month. The Ship Fever stories were critically acclaimed, as in The Boston Globe, as \beautiful stories about the won- der and work of science. In Barrett's hands, science is trans- formed from hard and known fact into malleable, strange, and thrill~ ing fictional material.\ now appear to be better- prepared for the task. After all, they've al- ready accomplished their greatest challenge--working together as a \!linton fl:ollege ..:IFa.cultp QC.o lloquiuut KENNETH G. DE BONO GILBERT R. LTVTNGSTON PROFESSOR OF BEHA. VTORAL SCIENCES Personality and Consu.:nzer Decision-lt,tfaking: Understandi1-.g Kl-z-e Psychology of Product Evaluation THURSDAY. OCTOBER 9, /997AT4.·30 P.M. REAMER CAMPUS CENTER AUDITORIUM COFFEE &: TEA AT 4.·00 P. 1!4.

Page 6 _• September 25~ 19?7, • t.fitJ' ({ounrn.)imsis · Alh·c 1 ·tiscmcnt OOL'S PROGRESS ~N\':. .. A.K.A. Acoustic Junction It's your brain. Incredibly malleable. Infinitely versatile. Awesomely inventive. • Friday, Septembe.r 26 Memorial Fieldhouse At Andersen Consulting, we want to keep it that way. &. we challenge it with n stimulating Doors Open at 7pm Show begins at 8pm variety of assignments. 9evelop it with an average of over 176 hours of advanced training per year. Reward it with advance-- ment. And su.pport it with the resources of 49.000 professionals oper~tting across 47 countries. At Andersen Consulting; we always keep you in mind. 0 19\1.:\ AnJei'SI!n C~msulling Andcn:cn C••n~ultint is anl!<fu;~l Opportunity f.!mtll<>yt~r. ANDERSEN CeNSULTING Brought To You By The Union College Concert Committee Please join us tonight for eur information session at 7:31 pm, O'l<iil Chapel. v.o-···.•u· .. D 1 E·:·M.·-··_.· .. A--:N··· o:. PO ... w· ........ - ... ·E·····R.· I~. . . . . .. . .... - . ······· . . . . . . · .. , Sp .·.·E·E-.· · A···· N-.···· · .. · M ....... ·······.O· ...... a.···.···.L·· .... ····_· .. ·. .. . D- , . . D. . .1 1~. . - ·. --=- - -- -_ . ___ --- - ----- , ____ ---- I l;t 300 cash back• WANT SOME CASH TO GO WITH THAT? Now $ u.e rllghrt UM to 1rt an Apll*l Ptwt!r -Mac;lmsn or ~t. 8ea!LIY! irt alfdldlxt tn cettfn1 .-. oom~er that ltts YOIU tlo mart tho ~oiJ. ~n lfM.81M~ ·yo.u QJII ~_... tJ4a 1rfM:.r ff.l!l' ,. ~til ,,.._. ~ _... dtJible- lor $.f1titil4 ~HUh lft!'Nl:a. ......, b illmW-1• .~ ~P\I oltct.. I'M Y!*f~ • ..,. ..... ~.,. OMflpltO _,...,._ t.nlld ·Cbade5 lofworih at Ultloci e.lep looMtore Rumer Cmpu ~.:attd fl9cJf Ho~oz Molday thm rnlay a..,., · 4-._ & Slta..O, uiOD .. 1100 ($1(1~­ 'hlp//chttocs.uraudu}'PWU~~ft..htn tmd: bfmtt(trfteulifm.tw All students are welcome. ,:, . 200 ' .. _ .. -. ' ') ··~- ~ --' ,(-~ ... ·,1 • -~ : • c C. Well the b: \It'~ it's Su] in a ' watcht topher hero, t ing in lyzati< chair- a qua1 Reeve somel domt• Got db Des that SJ: ment have throu~ 1996, Olson Cao s muscl ered s Thi: howe· studyi nalcq wem1 brain: its Ion spinal ered ii myeli1 comp1 white spons functi the gr: insula ten le; ing tt nals t,

.. ,.. _-_ ' ... -... -· - \ - •• -- _, - • ~ - :· ~ •• - \' - ... - .... .,._ : ' • .. ~ - ~ .. .. ._ - > ·Global News I Sc-ience and Techno log)· . . U:I1c <Ctlllwri'lit'tlsi~ • St•ptt.'mbca· 25, 1997 • Page 7 . . ' . ' ··(~~' .. ··.~ '.:-~' -National News Bi 11 e Hil ih~ .. , The Chelsea Chronicles \.lhile the cal~ awa. y, -lhe.. lb.ie.e.s . ;'4.t:¥Xtf play.·~ . . . 4- \ ~. l \' • \1 .· ' ~~1 \1\ ... f ' ' .. .. \ ' .. - Well we tried to have Chelsea transfer to Union, b11t ''daddy\ did not like the idea to much. The First Lady offered to write a weekly column and then changed her mind upon realizing that the staff would not contribute to her legal defense fund. With aU of their friends in jail, the Clintcms became of very little help. Needless to say we are still in search of a \National News\ writer. Please call x6155, not the White House, if interested. . ' Science & Technology Spinal Research Perspectives at the Nott by Victoria Hargreaves SandT Writer \It'aabird. No, it's a plane. No, it's Supennan.\ No, it's Supel1llan in a wheelchair? The world watched in horror last year as Chris- topher Reeve, America's super- hero, tumbled from a horse result- ing in a spinal cord injury, para- lyzation and ultimately, a wheel- chair- ridden life. Although life as a quadriplegic has not stopped Reeve, \spinal cord injuries rob some 10,000 Americans of the free- dom to move\ annually, says Jeff Goldberg of Discover. Despite ancient Egyptian belief that spinal cord injury was \an ail- ment not to be treated,'' doctors have made significant break- throughs in this field. In July of 1996, Swedish researchers Lars Olson, Henrich Cheng, and Yihao Cao successfully restored \some muscle function to rats with sev- ered spinal cords.\ This task was certainly noteasy, however, as doctors have been studying and operating on the spi- nal column for centuries. \When we m'ove a muscle voluntarily, a brain neuron sends a signal down its long extension, the axon, to the spinal cord.\ These axons are cov- ered in an insulating material called myelin. The myelin and the axons compose the white matter. This white matter encases nerves re- sponsible for motor and sensory functions. The nerves make up the gray matter which is free of the insulating myelin. Brain axons -of~ ten leave the white matter, enter- ing the gray matter, to send sig- nals to the muscles. The myelin covering speeds up these signals; llowever, it also prohibits the re- generation of cut axons. The Swedish researchers propos~d that cut axons -would regenerate if they were allowed to grow in the gray matter, free from the inhibitory myelin. Cheng experimented by sectioning out nerves of a rat to make channels through which, he proposed, the signals would travel to the gray matter. These tubes were fastened ·with fibrin, the body's fonnof glue. After three weeks, a fewr:ats im- proved. After a year, some rats were able to \hobble around.\ \Apparently the severed axons from the brain grew throu.gh the tunnels into the gray matter and reestablished connections with enough motor neurons to restore some limited movement.\ Despite this promising research, further investigation is necessary for a cure. Other tested methods include fetal nerve transplant, ge- netic engineering, and advanced drugs. Scientists must take into account that most spinal i'lljuries are nor a result of a distinct cut in . the spinal cord, but rather, \crushed neurons.\ Christopher Reeve's injury will be particularly difficult to reverse as it i11volves his respiratory system. Although Oison, Cheng, and Cao's research is not indicative of an immediate cure, we must never lose hC>pe for one day maybe our Supennan will be flying in the skies agairl. Sources: Goldber~, Jeff. ,;'MeJtding Spinal Cords,~' Dis- · cover. January 1997. www.cireleof'friends.org/sci!re- searcla.ladVances.html f\· ~~ .\.~ ~ ·> Andrea Barrett 1 74 MJhe Geography of the North\ MONDAY, SEpt 29 7:.30 P .. M. THE NOTT MEMORIAL Passionate, brilliant, original, mysterious, beauti- .. ful, sensual, soul-enhancing, Imaginative, ete1ant - such words have described Andrea Barrett's writing. Winner of the National Boek Award for fiction 1ast year for her collection Ship Fever and Other Stories, Barrett is now working on her sixth book - a novel featuring an arctic • explorer. A biology major at -Union, Barrett studied both zoology and medieva~ history before tuming to wridng, and her books and stories offer a unique blend of science, htstory, and fiction. On Monday evening, she will share her .thinking about ardlc explon~tlon, suggesting its connections to creativity, writing, reading, and the sdentlflc perspective.

Pt\gc ·s · September 25, 1997 · tiJIIc <!ItlunHi:licnsis . · . . O.P /ED· ' . CAN'T WE ALL JUST GET ALONG? \Just for today I will be agreeable. I will not raise my voice, no matter how tempted I may be. I will exercise patience and compassion and extend t<l others. the consideration and . understanding I would like to receive.\ This phrase is not just a personal philosophy of mine, nor is it a plea for the entire campus to sit around a campfire together holding hands and singing Kumbayah. It is part of the 12-step . program of Alcoholics Anonymous,. and it is a valuable life • lesson for us all. The art ofgetting along with people, and I do believe it is an art form, is often easier said than done. It is a delicate balance· of give and take, concession and compromise. Many times we act or speak out of anger too quickly, only to later regret our haste and attempt reconciliation. It is a perceptive and sensitive person who can read a situa- tion and react in a diplomatic manner. There is an Old Irish philosophy stating, \The art of diplomacy is being able to tell . a man to go to hell so that he looks forward to the trip.\ We sometimes forget, in rushes of indignation and self-righteous- ness, to take a step back from a tense encounter for the sake of · understanding alternate points of view. Such fiery emotions have resulted in severed friendships, damaged professional relationships, and strained, tension-filled interaction. One of the most commo11 forums in which this occurs is in a large group of individuals with unique tastes and differing per- sonal strengths who have been placed together in a somewhat contained environment. Often times students must work to- gether towards a single project, which requires compromise-- on the part of all participants--in order to be successful. Social situations also demand that we interact with each other and negotiate our mutual needs. When individuals don't see eye to eye, confrontatio'hs can get heated, and we lose sight of the bigger picture. We temporarily forget that friends are more · important than any immediate argument we may have. If we took the time to check ourselves beforejmhping to an angered response, we could avoid a large portion of these com- plications. I urge that we all form memories at Union that we will be proud to carry with us for years--qot ones that we'd sooner The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest New_spaper Aileen Quigley, Frank Rossi EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Matt Cohen Amy DiBattista EXECUTIVE EDITORS Christopher Leone MANAGING EDITOR Peter Simon OPINIONS EDITOR , Lori Green Kim Rohback · ARTS& ENTERTAINMENT EDITORS I , Dan Queen Geoff Sullivan SPORTS EDITORS Tatiana Cogevina R<tb Hagopian COMPUTER MANRS. Michelle Tham FEATURES EDITOR Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Amy DiBattista COPY EDITOR Laurie Kirschner Dave Meguerdichian PHOTOED/TORS PHOTOGRAPHERS: Riel' Lederer, Maria Guinle, Braunstein STAFF: Josh Adams, Anjali Balasingham, Kelen Barr, Hannah Blum, Jamie Chandler, Shan a Dang~lo, Mike DeMicco, Gabriela Dory, Jason Everett, Adrian.MacLean, El'lka Mancini, Josh Mendelsohn, Pike Mody, Nick Papanickolas, Dnid Pinkowitz. • • znzons ·. ~ -~ ·.· ~ A Ignorant Freshman@ Union by Chris Leone Managi11g Editor E-mail is essential to a college student's life. While reading this, take a long hard look at, or pic- tme, the college center terminals. Notice the long line to use the two computers the school has so gra- ciously provided. Notice how that l'ine is not moving? What was that? Are you going to be late. for class? Let me guess--the person at the front of the line is typing a novel, and that person is more than likely an insolent freshman. For those of you who are new to this campus last year, the col• lege center only had one e-mail terminal. Lines of people did not just ·sit there. Students respected each other, and the wait was not half as long. Last year also saw the biggest freshman class in the college's history. Last week, I checked my e-mail before going up stairs to eat din- ner. Upon finishing, a freshman, immaculately dressed in new Union gear (who else besides a fresltman would wear an outfit like this?), quickly filled in as my re- placement. After a fulfilling 45 minutes of eating (extra time u~ed to digest the gourmet servings), I returned to the lobby. Upon tak- ing that last step, a huge surprise blurred my vision. A congregation of ten students had gathered around to form a line. No, it was not any big deal, just a wait to get onto the computer. That same freshman was t)lere typ- ing and in another world, oblivi- ous to the dilemma caused. Should someone, as not to in- timidate, gently tell this person iliat .there are computer labs for such lengthy writing? Why not j11st 'roid rage at the person and see them run like hell all the way back to West? There are no answers on how to solve the problem that the nicely dressed student caused. My devastating experience was not the first of its kind. These lon.g usages have come in a rash of pro- longed log-ins. Monday through Friday there is always a wait of at least three or four people. When people get their chance, it is rarely quick, especially if they are new to the campus. Unlike many items that litter the op-ed pages, this problem is not the faultofthe college administra- tion. It is the fault of the students for not moving the process along. I await a reply from the class of 2001. It is a reasonable assump- tion that your computer skills are up to the challenge. * * * * * * The most ridiculous action hap- pened up in this office last week. Usually itwouldgo along with the many forgotten things; l>ut it fits in so nicely with life, and there- fore it is a must for this space. A freshman, who will remain nameless, came up and asked the features editor to see a back issue of the paper. A few days Iater he presented an article with a self-pro- claimed tie to \Thurberville.\ Well, hi~ attempt proved to be one of many on the week. It creates a question of how one can write about th.ings about which they ob- viously know very little. · It seems that every new writer believes that they are the next great gift to this paper. To those great Pulitzer winners, I suggest that they look at some of the seniors on the staff. There longevity is a testimony to good hard work, not just plain guess work. * * * * * To k~ep in tune with the fresh- man theme of this article, it is im- portant to note the sudden rash of late night hospital trips. While every freshman feels the need to spend there nigltts booz- ing away the time, ycu'd think they might learn something fr()m their fellow classmates. As more and more of the ~lass of200 1 spend their money at Ellis, they might rather invest in a dic- tionary. This way they w<Juld un- derstand the word \moderation.\ Letters Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community; Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed and saved on a high density disk although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Edit<Jrial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority ofthe Editorial Board, and no one member in ,particular. Any opinion columns, or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, · and not ne~essarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. 'i Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not n~cessarily reflect the_ op.inion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is printed by World Media, 1104 Central Avenue, Albany, NY, 12205. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, & King Syndicates. . 1 • • Te In been majo1 to pr1 these place most] der v child This me li mean volvc: willr telev what child Ev uncle noyit good coun tion 1 abou telev Arne Fo nent has a mind It's n telev destr neg a ]] Ie: Lette high] Shov wron spiri1 just 1 TV. the c went Mon It mal studt enou had, citen parti the 1 fom their the c trip Lett~ moo atth w wen tauri vide mas: dev cho' toth peoJ poin cam Tim muJ plor

.l . OP/ED · . · · <rt,c <Cllltmrn.icusis • Se'ptember 25, 1.997 · Page 9 . ' . Opinions Television Rating Systems: Give Me A Break by Josh Adams Staff Reporter In the past year, there have been major changes among the major television networks. Due to .pressure from action groups, these stations have decided to place rating systems for shows~ mostly in part to help parents ren- der wha~ television shows their children-can or cannot watch. This whole campaign seemed to me like a huge waste of time. I mean, if parents are actively in- volved in their children's life, they will not or should not need some television executive telling them what shows are suitable for their children. Even President Clinton buckled under the pressure from these an- noying conservative groups. It's good to see that things in this country are in such good condi- tion that the President can worry about important issues like what television shows the youth of America are watching. For starters, I am a huge oppo- nent of the theory that television has a direct effect on shaping the minds of young children today. It's not what the child sees on the television that draws him to be destructive, it's the positive or negative feedback that these kids receive from their parents. Par- ents are so busy these days work- ing for that pool or for that extra car in the garage that they forget the reason they had children in the first place. I'm sure all the psy- chology majors are shaking their heads in disgust right now.·· The real problem isn't violence on the TV; it's the use of televi- sion as a type of baby-sitter, and when that baby-sitter does not perform in the way it is expected to, people become upset. Those people are the same ones who de- cide to be a parent in their \free\ time, when they are not playing ·· golf or going out with friends. I was watching N.Y.P.D. Bhle last week, and in the beginning of the show, a box in the right hand cor~ ner appeared with a rating. Now, does that make a lot of sense to you? I mean, whatten- or eleven- year-old is going to ta:ke the time to sit thr_ough an hour adult drama, with probably no idea about what the people are talking about. They would rather spend their time playing sports or trying to beat King Koppa. If this new rating system gives superficial parents a false sense of security, then more power to them. At least they will shut up and stop whining to the networks about something as irrelevant as the type of television program- . · ming their kids watch. God for- . bid that these parents should have . their youngsters reada book or get . some exercise. How do they de- cided these ratings anyway? What · is the determining factor in rating a show as PG-13 or as PG-14? That whole process seems to be a moot point. If a kid is going to be . deviant, he's going to do it any- way, with or without the help of television. I remember a time when TV was .supposed to be a source of · entertainment and fun, when the whole family could spend some time together. Now, it seems to be· a battle ground for the pesky . · Democrats and overzealous Re- · publicans to gain support and fa- . voritism from the American pub- lic. The future looks bleak. The more and more mothers and fa- thers depend on television to watch their children, the deeper and deeper this country will sink into despair. Kids today have more technology at their beckon and whim than anyone before them could even imagine, and chose not even to use it to their advantage. By the time this gen- eration matures into adulthood, I dread to see what will become of their offspring. Dave L.etterman Is A Fake by Kenley Smith CoJttributing Writer It's really quite true: David Letterman ofthe\third place\ yet highly enjoyable and goofy Late Show, is a big fake. Don't get me wrong: he's not some evil, mean- spirited overlord of CBS. He is just not what he appears to be on TV. If you don't believe me, ask the other 89 Union students who went to The Late Show this past Monday afternoon. . none the less. great: GeorgeClooney was funny and self-deprecating; Bill Cosby acted like the legend and gentle- man that he is known as, and the videos of\ Dave With Kids\ were a riot. What's Next? .. ·· . . ?f Homeroom .. by Frank Rossi Editor-in-Chief At Union, seniors are usually reassured, when new policies are put forth, that they will not be af- fected. Last week this belief was shattered. A \trial\ policy, with which, I might add, several fac- ulty members are not thrilled, has been passed to toy with the class times starting not next year, but nextterm. _Onthesurface, the idea looks all right, as no .classes will be scheduled from 12:15 PM to 1 :20 PM, giving the school an hour to congregate for lunch, meetings, or an afternoon nap. I am all for that, hllt there are sev- eral problems t() which the pow- ers that be have not given clear answers. The powers that be, in this case, appear to be the Aca- demic Affairs Committee (AAC), a body vyith more professor votes than student votes (giving the fac- ulty member rubber-stamp abil- ity). While it is only an advisory committee, President Hull and Dean Cool take their recommen- dations seriously, giving them some integrity. I challenge some professor(s) from the AAC to answer the fol- lowing questions about the issue in next week's Concordy. A fail- ure to ansyver., I feel, confirms that this idea was not fully thought through and sh()uid be examined further before being put into ef- fect. 1) Lunch halls are already crowded! Last Wednesday, I was going to my new dorm room (The Concordiensis office), and I had a slight bit of trouble getting up the stairs, as students were wait- ing iu a long line outside Upperclass Dining Hall. A uni- . form lunch period will cause a larger throng of students to flock to the main dining areas at Union, Upperclass, West, and \The Skellar.\ The AAC explains the blank hour as a time for student clubs and faculty groups to meet. However, I feel the need to point out that there are no classes sched- uled currently on Tuesdays and Thursdays during lunchtime. Is there really a need for students to have to battle long linesjustto use a meal punch they have already bought? 2) Which professor, in his or her right mind, would schedule a class to be held on Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday? The new schedule sets up this time slot and pushes Mon- day/Wednesday/Friday classes up ten minutes (to 8:30 AM). First, Tuesday/Thursday/Friday classes force a professor to assign home- work for a one-day turnover, something that may not be easily adaptable for students and profes- sors. Rumor has it that some pro- fessors will refuse to offer classes during this time period. A I so, many refuse to hold 8:30 AM classes because of the problem of student turnout (this brings up sev- eral side problems, outside the scope of this opinion). This leaves only six time periods in which pro- fessors would be able to hold classes. l have had a large amount of trouble scheduling classes over the past two years due to classes overlapping under the current sys- tem. This program can only make this problem worse, reducing the ability for students choices while making their schedules. 3) Is this not an idea that sounds very much like a high school schedule? I understand the idea of wanting students to be able to spend time together, but there is sufficient time throughout the day already. I have no trouble finding somebody to dine with, and often r need a little time to myself. Now, if I have only the 12:15 PM to 1.:20 PM slot open on my schedule, I· have to worry about how long it will take justto get into a lunch hall. This is unreasonable and counterproductive. It also re- minds me of high schooL I can- not wait until the faculty passes home-room in the beginning of each morning \to breed even more student unity.\ It all started off with the nor- mal ups and downs--too many students for the tickets we had, not enough buses for the students we had, but a definite feeling of ex- citement and enthusiasm from all participating. The crew sent from the show was very nice and in:. formative about the show, about their jobs, about the schedule for the day, and so forth. On the bus trip we watched entertaining Letterman footage to get us in the mood to scream, clap, and guffaw at the antics ofall on stage. Finally, we were herded into the theater's main lobby by the po- lite, sui~ed ushers who, thanks to Jon Zandm~n, all had lovely \U' s\ on their lapels to match the ones each student wore. (Perhaps this was to make us, or them, feel better about taking the signs and posters that we brought.) Enter- ing the theater was a bit of a sur- prise, as it was very small and about 13 degrees below zero. Undaunted, ~several Union stu- dents pulled out scarves, hats, and mittens. The orchestra warmed up and entertained us as well as a stand-up comic whose job seemed to be getting us into a controlled frenzy for the sight of Mr. Letterman. The tnain idea was to give the TV audience the impres- sion that we were on the verge of rushing the stage in order to mo- lest the host. It worked. pretty well; when Dave Letterman came, on the crowd was noisy, appre- ciative, and voraciously enthusi- astic. All of us were given tee shirts after the show to the delighted cries of \free stuff,\ and every- one thanked us sincerely for com- ing. All in all, it was a happy day and more fun than· I thought it would be. The big disappoint- ment to all of us was, of course, the lack of acknowledgment from Dave Letterman on the show. To clear this up I'll explain what I think happened. Lettennan came out before the show ,joked around ~--------------------------------~--------------------------- When we reached the city, we were directed to the Sullivan Res- taurant for food and drinks pro- vided by the show. The Union masses did themselves proud by devouring every crumb and chocolate-covered cherry in sight to the open-mouthed stares ofthe people who worked there. At this point the bathroom situation be- came what is known as critical. Time limits were set, options for multiple-person use were ex- plored, but it was quite a process When the cameras were on, Letterman was goofy, funny, warm, and generally \a wild and crazy guy.\ As soon as the cam- eras stopped, though, he some- how metamorphosed into an oddly commanding, intense fig- ure who issued orders quickly and often to just about everyone. He took copious notes and was com- pletely withdrawn from the crowd. and. the crew unless talking di- rectly to them. Despite this peri- odic transformation, the show was a bit, then asked, \How's every- one from Albany?\ At this p~int three people in the audience (who l don't think were acquainted with our group) cheered. Now, we're all thinking, \Schenectady! Say · Schenectady, and we'll cheer,\ and I believe Dave was thinking, \So much for those idiot college kids from Albany. What a bunch of dorks.\ So, for whatever rea- son, that was the end of that mo- ment of glory. Despite all of that, the Letterman show was great to us, and we got a free bus ride, a meal, and lots of Snickers bars. So, if you had a good time and want to thank someone, call Dean Schurick and let her know you appreciate her hard work and ef- fort. As for me, I'm off to Los Angeles to expose Jay Leno as a lame, boring, and generic host. Stay tuned. Thank U Everyone To the Editor, I am writing to commend the entire office of student activities, club officers, and fellow students on a terrific start to the school year. I am amazed at how many successful events have taken place in such a short time ... Here we are, only into the third week of school, and we've had so many exciting things happen. I' 11 just list a few in case you've been too busy with your studying: TGIF Welcome Back BarBQ, Virtual Reality, Love Lines Contest, Stu- dent Forum Retreat, David Letterman outing and after party at Chet' s, Mop 'n Bucket show, Proctor's Too ... (Those are the events that first came to my mind.). While these events may not have interested the campus in its entirety, I was thrilled to see so many people attend and can honestly say that I am beginning to feel a sense of unity among our campus. If anyone deserves credit for bringingthis.about it is mostly due to the Student Activity pro- gram assistants and their director. Thanks so much Stacy, Mike, Shenell, Kenley, Tom, Liz, and of course Lee. Thanks to Lee Clark and our new coordinator, Mr. Johnson. You're several in a mil- lion. Hee, hce ... Your hard work and dedication to our school does not go unnoticed. Sincerely, Ruthie Strosberg Senior Trustee

~ Fall Term Exam Schedule c: • Ask Your Professor or The Registrar's Office If You Have Any Further. Questions ·- :1 -- MONDAYs NOVEMBER 17 1 1997 • 9:30·11:30 AM WEDNESDAYs NOVEMBER 19 1 1997 • 9:30·11:30 AM ANT*010*01 Cultural Anthropology Gmelch, S. ARTS 109 IMP*011*01 lnt Math/Physics 1 w/lab Barbanei/Reich N\\f$;E 112 c: .. BI0*024*01 Genetics w/lab Boyer/Lauzon SSCI 016 IMP*011*02 lnt Math/Physics 1. w/lab Barbanei!Reich NVI$;E 114 c: BI0*046*01 lntro to Psychobiology Weisse, C. BAIL300 MTH*010\01 Calculus 1 Taylor, A. HY~;N 115 810*180*01 Biochemistry Salvo/Fox BAIL201 MTH*010\02 Calculus.1 Bick. T. BW1R300 CER*035*01 Water Resources & Environmerlt Snow,P. BUTR300 MTH*010~03 Calculus 1 Taylor, A. ;HUlM;N 115 I CHN*120~01 Intermediate Chinese 1 Feng, J.P SSCI213 MTH*010*04 Calculus 1 Fairchild, W. BAIL 100 CLS*021*01 History of Greece Loomis,W. HUMN 115 MTH*010*05 Calculus 1 Reynolds, P. i\RlS 109 CLS*035*01 Greek & Roman Historiography Meckler, M. HUMN116 MTH*010*06 Caleulus 1 Reynolds, P. A.R18 109 EER\'018*01 Digital Computers w/Lab Traver, C. BAIL 106 MTH*013*01 APCalculus Cervone, D. HIJMJN 117 ESC*021*01 Mechanics 1 w/Lab Bucinell, R. NWSE205 MTH*01·3*02 APCalculus Cervone, D. HUMIN 117 MEAl HST*013*01 History of US to Civil War Miller, AT. SSCI112 MTH*013*03 APCalculus Johnson, B. BAIL 201 HST*013*02 History of US to Civil War Stemgass, J. HUMN 117 MTH*013*04 APCalculus Johnson, B. ~AIL201 DELU HST*013*03 History of US to Civil War Meade, T. ARTS21.5 MTH*015*02 Calculus 3 Zulli,L BU1R 109 HST*035*01 History of Europe 1 Hansen, E. SSCI103 MTH*015*03 Calculus 3 Zulli, L. 8~1R 109' YE(II HST*035*02 History of Europe 1 Sargent, S. SSCI104 MTH*058~01 Appls of Math to Eco-1 · Rosenthal, K. BAIL 207 I HST*035*03 History of Europe 1 Halliday; P. COLC MTH*058*02 .Appls of Math to Eco 1 Rosenthal, K. BAil207 PEP .. HST*151*01 Nazi Germany Walker, M. HUMN 014 MTH*099~01 lntro:Logic & Set Theory Hart, J. BAit 106 JPN*130*01 Advanced Intermediate Japanese Khan, Y. SSCI014 MTH*099*02 lntro:Logic & Set Theory Hart, J. BAll 1Q6 EX111 MTH*017*01 Calculus IV: Integral Vector Fairchild, W. BAIL207 PSY*025*01 Experimental Psychology w/lab Bums, D. J. BAIL 300 MTH*017E*01 Calculus IV: Engineers Zwicker, W. BAIL 104 PHY*045*01 Solar System w/Lab Marr, J.M. NWSE 114 WEDNESDAYs NOVEMBER 19s 1997 -1:30·3:30 P~ PHY*160*01 Physical Optics. w/latl Maleki, S. NWSE303 CHM*010*01: Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab Scaife, C. B~11R 204 PSY*030*01 Personality Donaldson, G. BAIL 100 CHM*010*02 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab Hagerman, M. BW11R 204 PSY*038*01 Developmental Psychology Stanhope, L. BAIL 312 CHM*010*03 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab Anderson, J. BU11R204 PSY\046*01 Intra to Psychobiology Weisse, C. BAIL300 CHM*010*04 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab Lou;K Bm1R204 CHM*030*01 Organic Chern 1 w/lab Adrian, J .. SS(I016 cu~ MONDAYI NOVEMBER 17s1997 -1:30-3:30 PM CHM*030*02 Organic Chern 1 w/Lab Huii,L SS~I,Q16 ANT*010*02 Cultural Anthropology Gmelch, S. SSCI112 MTH*119*01 Topics in Discrete Mathematics Taylor, A. BABL104 i\DOlT CHN*010*01 Basic Chinese 1 Feng, J.P HUMN 113 PHY*020\01 General Physics 4 w/Lab Khosropour, R. N'A/$E 328 TOPPJ: EC0*033*01 Public Policy & Amer Industry Klein, D. HUMN014 EGL*044*01 Enlightenment & Romanticism Heinegg, P. HUMN 112 WEDNESDAY 1 NOVEMBER19s199i' • 7:00-9:00 PM ESC*020*01 Mechanics 2 King, F. BUTR 109 EGL-022-0.2 Major American Authors Slade,L H Ul\'N 112 ESC*025*01 Electric Circuits w/Lab Chang, Y. NWSE 114 r· FRN*131*01 Survey of French Literature 1 Curran, A. HUMN213 THURSDAY 1 NOVEMBER 20 1 1997 • 9:30·11:30 AM GE0*022*01 Geomorphology/Surficial Geo Rodbell, D. BUTR201 AAH*025*01 17 & 18 C European Art Eyerman, C. Aftl'S 215 I GER*120*01 Intermediate German 1 Hamm-Ehsani, K HUMN 119 AMU*020*01 Music History & Lit 1 McMullen, D. AR]fl 313 I GER*121*01 Intermediate German 2 Hamm~Ehsani, K HUMN 119 BI0*144*01 Cytology w/Lab Smith, G. SAIL 100 GRK*010*01 Principles of Greek 1 Mace, S. SSCI105 CER*143*01 Foundations & Constr w/Lab Ghaly, A. B~TR 300 I JPN*010*01 Basic Japanese 1 Khan, Y. HUMN 116 EC0*012*01 Introduction to Economics Fried, H. HlJ~N 114 I MER*030*01 Dynamics of Systems w/Lab Rivera,M. NWSE210 EC0*020*01 Intra to Statistical Analysis Schmidt, S. HlJWJN 019 PHY*014*01 Atoms, lasers, Quasars Schick, K. NWSE303 EC0*031*01 Microeconomic Analysis Schmidt, S.J. sscn 104 I PSC*161*01 Public Opinion & Pol Psych Brown. C. HUMN 117 EC0*042*01 Macro Theory & Policy Motahar, E. HlJWDN 014 PSY*010*02 lntro to Psychology Stanhope, L. BAIL 312 EER*060*01 System Theory II w/Lab Rudko, M. NV\ISE 210 I PSY*033*02 Psycllology of Memory/Thinking Burns, D. J. BAIL300 ESC*016*01 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 1 w/Lab Milillo, f. NVtJSE 110 I RUS*010*01 Basic Russian 1 Jordan, B. SSCI 012 ESC*016*02 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 1 w/Lab Snow, P. N~SE 110 SPN*121*01 Intermediate Spanish 2 Camacho, L. BAil201 ESC*016*03 fundamentals of Eng/CS 1 w/Lab Williams, G. NV\'SE 110 I SPN*122*01 Advanced Spanish Torres, B. BAIL 104 ESC*016*04 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 1 w/Lab Hassib, E. NVI'SE 110 I ~ SPW130*01 lntro:Spanish & Spn Amer Lit MartineZ, V. HUMN 110 GE0*021*01 · Strat Dep Env of East NY w/Lab Garver, J.l Bl.I'VR 201 SPN*132*01 Spanish Peninsular lit 1 lzurieta, I. HUMN 019 PSY*035*01 Industrial/Organization Psych Nydegger, R. BA.IL201 .... SOC*153*01 Soc of Disabled & Handicapped Weiner, T. SSCI110 I MONDAY 1 NOVEMBER 17 1 1997 • 4:30·6:30 PM CSC*010*01 Computers & Computing Almstead, L. BAIL207 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1997-1:30-3:30 PM I CSC*010*02 Computers & Computing Almstead, L. BAIL207 AAH\045*01 Contemporary Art in America Eyerman, C. A~T$ 215 CSC*010*51 Computers & Computing Hedrick, J. BAIL 201 ACC*010*01 Survey of Accounting Neidermeyer, P. HlJVIN 014 I ATH*020*01 History of Theatre Rose, L. 'tlJLI\1 I TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1997 • 9:30·11:30 AM CHM*013*01 AP Chemistry Carroll, M. BA.IL 102 AAH*011*01 lntro Art History- 1 Matthew, L. ARTS215 CSC*037*01 Structured Programming Green, E. NV\ISE 116 I AMU*012*01 Language of Music McMullen, D. ARTS 313 EC0*012*02 Introduction to Economics Fried, H. ss.c 1104 810*010*02 I ntro to Biology 1 w/Lab Brown, G. SSCI 016 EC0*031*02 Microeconomic Analysis Schmidt, S.J. HlJI\AlN 115 I BI0*053*01 Northeast Forests w/Lab Tobiessen, P. SWSE322 EC0*144*01 International Economics Motahar, E. 81\.IL 100 I 810*066*01 Darwin's Legacy w/Lab Minorsky, P. STZH 106 GMI*144*51 International Economics Motahar, E. BA.IL 100 810*162*01 Neurobiology w/Lab Olberg, R. BUTR300 PHL*014*01 Introduction to Ethics Baker, R. HlJII>IlN 114 I CER*128*01 Structural Analysis Mafi, M. BUTR 109 PHL*070*01 History & Phil of Modern Sci Ludwig, J. sse 1213 I CHM*142*01 Chern Instrumentation w/Lab Werner, T. STZH 108 PSC*049*01 Middle East Politics Lobe, T. SSCI103 CLS*026*01 Classical Literature Toher, M. SSCI 014 PSY*010*03 Intra to Psychology Spring, D. BA.IL201 I EGL*036A*01 African-American Lit I Pavlic, E. HUMN 115 PSY*049*01 Psychology of Addiction Dowling, T. BA.IL312 GE0*010*01 Physical Geology w/Lab Hollocher, K BUTR201 .... GRK*120*01 Attic Prose Toher, M. SSCI 014 FRIDAy I NOVEMBER 21. 1997 • 9:30·11 :30 AM I HST*072*01 Early Jewish History Berk, S. COLC AMU*031*01 Music of Black America Olsen, T. ART.S 215 HST*086*01 The Nuclear Age Walker/Shanebrook HUMN 014 ANT*016*01 Prehistory Walker, M. HUI~N 014 I LAT*010*01 Principles of Latin 1 Scullion, J. S SSCI 012 BI0*067'\01 Bio:Health & Fitness w/Lab Crawford, A. Bi\.IL 100 MER*040*01 Engineering Design 1 w/Lab Blinn,M. NWSE210 EC0*012*03 Introduction to Economics McCarty, T. SSC-1 016 I PHL*011*01 History Western Philosophy 1 Patrik, L. HUMN 117 EC0*012*04 Introduction .to Economics McCarty, T. SS:C-1 016 I PHY*015*01 Physics/Life Sciences 1 w/Lab Topor, N. NWSE 114 EGL*039*01 European Novel in Translation Heinegg, P. HIJ~N 115 PHY*016*02 Physics/Life Sciences 2 w/Lab Newman, J. NWSE 116 FRN*012*01 Basic French 3 Dogbe,C. HUJ~N 114 I PSC*013*01 lntro to Political Thought Marso, L. SSCI103 GER*139*01 German Exile Lit Kellenter, S. HLJ~N 119 I PSY*010*01 lntro to Psychology Morling, B. BAIL312 GER*149*01 Das deutsche Exile Kellenter, S. Hl.B~N 119 SOC*010*02 Intra to Sociology Cotter, D. SSCI112 HEB*010*01 Basic Hebrew 1 Almog, M. HLJ~N 116 I SPN*120*01 Intermediate Spanish 1 Moyano,P. HUMN 110 HST*012*01 Prehistory: Walker, M. HGJ~N 014 SPN*120*03 Intermediate Spanish 1 lzurieta, I. HUMN 019 HST*018*()1 Progressive Era & World War I Henry, S. B~IL201 I SPN*149*01 Lit of Hispanic Caribbean Garcia, W. HUMN 112 HST*022*01 Civil War & Reconstruction Dudden, F. S~C:I103 I JPN*120*01 Intermediate Japanese 1 Khan, Y. HU~N 113 TUESDAYs NOVEMBER 18 1 1997 ·1:30-3:30 PM PHY*048\01 Intelligent Life in Universe Schick, K. N~SE 114 L. 810*010*01 I ntro to Biology 1 w/Lab Tobiessen, P. SSCI 016· PSC*082*01 Health Politics & Policy Weiner, T. HU~N 117 BI0*032*01 Comp Vertebrate Anatomy w/lab Butterstein, G BAIL 201 SOC*060*01 Quantitative Social Research Cotter, D. HUMIN 019 CER*160*01 Transportation Engg w/lab Wolfe, FA BUTR 109 EC0*032*01 Labor & Industrial Relations Prosper, P. SSCI 103 FRIDAYI NOVEMBER21.1997 ti1:30-3:30 PM EC0*145*01 Managerial Economics Kenney, J. SSCI110 AAH*026*01 History of Architecture Matthew, L. AIUS 215 EER*063*01 Desgn of Electronic Circ w/Lab Hassib, E. NWSE210 CER*147*01 Mgmt of Constr Project w/Lab Laplante, C. HUMiN 014 EGL*024*01 Modern American Lit Pavlic, E. HUMN 116 EC0*063*01 Economics of Health Lambrinos, J. 81\iiL 100 FRN*010*01 Basic French 1 Scheuer, A. HUMN 117 EER*124*01 lntro to Probabilistic Systems Spinelli, J. srZt110B FRN*120*01 Intermediate French 1 Dogbe, C. SSCI 014 EGL *019~01 Major English Authors 1 Hilles, C. HU~N 116 I FRN*120*02 Intermediate French 1 Curran, A. SSCI 010 EGL *056*01 Shakespeare after 1600 Jenkins, H. HU~N 114 GER*010*01 Basic German 1 Hamm·Ehsani, K SSCI112 ESC*021*02 Mechanics 1 w/Lab Keat, W.D. Nlf'ISE205 GER*010*02 - Basic German 1 Hamm-Ehsani, K. SSCI112 HST*112*01 American Labor History Henry, S. SSC:I103 GER*012*01 Basic German 3 Giguere, U. SSCI 012 LAT*130*01 Catullus & Horace Meckler, M. HUtwlN 213 HST*043*01 Europe in the Early Modem Era Hansen, E. SSCI104 PHL*046*01 Art, Media and Society Patrik, L. Hl:Jf.vlN 019 MER*026*01 Thermodynamics Wilk, R. NWSE222 PHY*017*01 General Physics 1 Jones, C. NlfJSE 112 PSY*020*01 Statistical Methods/Psychology Greenberg, S. BAIL300 PHY*017*02 General Physics 1 M«:lleki, S. NlfJSE 114 PSY*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL 312 PHY*017*03 General Physics 1 w/Lab Rodriguez, G. NlfVSE300 PSY*034*01 Psychology of Language DAndrea, T. BAIL 106 PSY*024*02 Social Psychology Marling, B. B.Al1L300 SOC*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL 312 PSY*031*01 Abnormal Psychology Donaldson, G. Bi\IL312 SPN*010*02 Basic Spanish 1 Garcia, w. HUMN 112 SOC*024*02 Social Psychology Marling, B. Bf»iiL3DO 'SPN*012*01 Basic Spanish 3 Camacho, L. HUMN.114 SPN*122*02 Advanced Spanish Martinez, V. HU~N 110 SPN*120*02 Intermediate Spanish 1. Moyano,.P. _ . J-l.U fv1N_ 115 ~- .. --~- . .,._. ~- .......... - . -- ----·, ... - ..

Advertisements ilfltL' (/fmmm.m·m:ils • September 25, 1997 • Page 11 iS '······. ·. ' ' =-· ' p c:a NOW OPEN F.OR LUNCH . . SPECIALTY PIES . U&-AYUA P*ZZA, FEAST~ $~.57 MEP.UM $13.$1 LAftGIE PEPPERONI. HAM. BEEf. SAUSAGE ANt> EXTRA CHetSE. D.LU)C:£ PJ'I~A F•4'tT~ $ • .;57 MEDlUU $13.31 LARGE 5 ftWORITES~ PIWPERONl. SAUSAGE, MUSHROOM$. OREEN PEPPERS ANO QNIONS. VEOI PI~ZA FIIAI1\~ $91.57 MEDIUM $13.31 LA1lQE LOADED WtrH CHtiESt., Mt)SHROOMS, GREE-N PEPPERS •. OUV$5 ANt> Ot•ltONS. PEPitlitONI PIZZA FEAST® S&.7a MEDIUM $1a.es L,u&QE PILED HIGH WiTH EXTRA PEPPERONI AND SMOTHERED IN E>(TRA CHEESE. EXTIIAVAGAN.UA®PIZU FEAST Sto.:u MEDIUM $14.1-7LARGE 9 TOPPING$ FOR THE :PR'ICE OF 5: PEPPERONI, HAM, SAUSAGJ;., Of•UONS, GRE!!.N PEPPERS, BLACK OLIVES. MUSHROOMS, AND !E){'l'AA CHEESE. (\IJHEW), . . CREATE YOUR OWN . ALL PIZZAS INCWOE OUR SPECIAL llLEN'D Of SAUCE AND 1~ ~ CHEll$£. CtieESE ADDlTfONAI,. TOPPINGS 1 2\ IIEDIUU 1-•• LAROE ... ~ U-LAiUllt • s.uc~s 1 a sue•• 12 $1.tCiiit Ka •n •• $.$(HtA. $1.27 £A. $1.40EA. a S1'YLE.J. OF CRUST TO CHOOSI: FROMt N.AMO TO$tf!Dt THIN CRUST OR DEEP OI$H .. ($1 .00 EXTftAI Oil TRY ONE OF OUII FI.AVORID CRUSTS. r--------~----------, I ·DINNERDEALN0.1 I I ENJOY A MEDIUM 2 TOPPING PIZZA, I I AN ORDER OF TWISTY BREAD I I AND 2 CANS Of COKE FOR ;ONLY I I $9. ··· I I .·.. .95 +TAX I I (DEEP DiSH .• $1.00 EXTRA) I Expires: 12131197 I +· Valid at partitipatill~. stoteunly. Hnt valid wilb any other_ o11tr.. Custonwr payualtJS I I tax where applteable. Oeliveryafea$-limitedtoensuresaledriving. Ourdtiverscarry I le~s thal\$20.00. nasll ¥aluer 1/20~. Our driven are: not penalized tor late delinri&s. . 1 . . 4)199_ 1 Domino's flzza, II'IC. . . . a --------------------- 1 DINNER DEAL NO.3 I I · ···· · I I ENJOY 2 MEDIUM PIZZAS EACH WITH 1 1 2 TOPPINGS AND AN ORDER OF 1 1 NEW CHEESY BREAD FOR ONLY 1 : $15.98•TAX : I {DEEP o•stt * SLOO EXTRA) I Explr•s: 1213:1197 I •• V.alidatpa. r_licipa1in~tstoresonty. Nntvalidwitllanyi)tl'ter onet. Customer pays sales 1 . · tax whereapJJhcable:. Daliveryareas limiledtoensuresalttdrMng. Ous dnveruarry I less than $20.00 .. Cash vatue-1120t. Our dtlversartnol penalized for late delherles. 1 e1~7 Ocmin(}':S Pi-zta, Inc. r--oiNNERiiALii0-:5--1 : ENJOY 1 LARGE 2 TOPPING I I ~~AroR~~ 1 : $8.99•TAX I I (DEEP DISH. $1.00 EXTRA) I . ExpitU: 12131/97 I •. v_ ali<! at participatin_o stores only .. Not-valid wilhany olhet offer. Cu-stomer pays sales I I • fa)( wtrere appltcable. Oelinty areas tlmited tt enwre sate drivino. Our dfl_vers tallY 1 leu than $20.00. Cish value 11201. Ourdriv~r$ are not penalized lot tate deliverie$. L . e1997 Oomino·s Pizza, In<:. . . .J ------------------- 716 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Store Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 4:30 pm - 1:00 am Fri.·Sat. lLOO am· 2:00am Sun. 11:00 am-1:00am 372-4441 PRODUCT SATISFACTION GUARANTEE: IF YOU ARE NOT SATISFIED WITH YOUR DOMIN0 1 S PIZZA ORDER, FOR ANY REASON, WE. WILL REPLACE IT OR REFUND YOUR MONEY. PJUCilS DO NOT INCLUDE: APPLICAaLE SAtES TAX AND &OT'I'LE DSPO.tT•. . . SIDE ORDERS . · . ' DOM1N0 1 t aRI:AO f$TtCkS $2,10 !ORDER OF 8) SEASONED BREADSTICKS. HOT FROM THE OVEN WITH OUR SEASONED TWtSn' SAUCE WITH YOUR CHOICe Of t»PP1NG SAUCE: 'tOM.\ TO. PARME$AN PEPPERCORN, GARI.tC BO'M'ER OR JAlAPENO CHEESE. DOY1NO\S CHIIESYBRIEAD $3.04 (ORDER OF 8} BREADS11CKS WITH ZESTY AND TWO lAVERS OF CHEESE. GARDEN FRESH SALAD $t.4t CRISP LETTUCE AND COOL VEGGIES WlTH YOUR CHOICE OF T. MARZETII® DRESSINGS: BUTTERMILN RANCH THOUSAND ISLAND 8Uflf'At.O W''NGI$ BLUE CHEESE. HONEY FRENCH flOUS£ ITAUAN LITE ITAliAN 10·$3.10 20·$7.-11 30·····1 40··12.08 A.VAlLABL£. IN: M!LD, MEDIUM, HOT, BARBEQUE AND EXTRA HOT . . . · · AVAILABL.E TOPPINGS . PEPPERONI BLACKOUVES GREEN PEPP£RS JAlAPENO$ ONIONS SAUSAGE MUSHROOMS BEEF HOT PEPPER RU~GS PINEAPPLE GREEN OUV£5 BACON HAM CHEDDAR CHEESE BROCCOLI DtCEO TOMA. TOES _'. . : BEVERAGES . . . ' COXW, DIET COICIE AIIID SPRITE 12 OUNCE CAM$ $,66 J .. U'fEft a.OTTL.I $2.0tl r-------------------, 1 DINNER DEAL NO.2 1 I ENJOY A LARGE 2 TOPPING PIZZA, I I NEW CHEESY BREAD AND A 2·LITER I I OF COKE OR SPRITE FOR ON.L V I I $13.96·TAX I I (DEEP DISH ~ $1.00 EXTRA) I Explru: 12131/97 I +. ValidatparticipatinostoJesonly. NotvaiWwltnanyothtrolter. Customer pays sa~ I I tax whete ~pphcabl&. Oelivery area-s limited tc ~Mur~ sate drMno. Our dnvets c.any I less thall$20.00. llash value 1/20 •. Our drivers are not penalhed.tot tate delivtcle$. 1 .01997 Domino's Pilla. tnc. 1 -------------------- ... : DINNER DEAL NO.4 : I ENJOY 2 LARGE PIZZAS EACH. WITH I 1 2 TOPPINGS AN·D AN ORDER OF 1 1 TWISTY BREAD FOR ONLY 1 I $18.97 •TAX I (DEEP DISH o; $1.(1(1 !XTRA) I E:xplru: t213tlt1 I I + Valida_ 1 par.ticlpa_ ling stores only .• ttot valid Yii1h any other otrer. Customet payuates 1 · tax where applicable, Delivery areas limlltd to ensure safe dli-vlrtg. Our dnvers carrv I tess tban $20.00. Ca$1! value 1120~. Our ~rivets are nol penalized for late deliveries. 1 019~71)omino's Pina, Inc. · ~------------------~ 1 DINNERDEALNO.& 1 I CARRY OUT SPECIAL I I BUY 1 PIZZA AT REGULAR PRICE I I AND GET 1 OF EQUAL VALUE I : FREEl!! I I (DEEP DISH ... $1.® EXTRA) I I Expires: t2t.ltJtJ7 I + valid atpalticipating slo~ oflly. Not ya~id wiln any olhel ofll!r·. Cu!lomer paY$ $ales I tax wt~ere appf1cable. D61tvery areas hnnled ro ensure safe drum;. Om dnvefl tatty 1 le$$lflan $20.00- Cash value 1120,. Our drivers ate not penalized for late deJiveries. L e1997Domino's Pizza, Inc. . . . .J -------------------- Don't Forget About Our Union College Student Specials!! Buy 2 Medium H·andtossed Pizzas With 1 Topping On Each For Only $9.99 +Tax OR Buy 1 Large Handtossed Plain Pizza For Only $6.99 +Tax Free Delivery!! Call (518) 372-4441

Pa.ge 12 •. September 25, 199t · Wh~ illottctn·nicn~is · · · ·. . · . Features . I . . . . ' ' ~ . . - . FINDING TIME FoR Don't Hate Me Because MY DowN CoMFORTER I'm Involved Getting Lost in CIU:h Fair Madness by MitJhelle Tham Feat11res Editor I just want to go to bed. I've been tired for about two weeks now. I'm not really sure where it all went. The time, that is. If it just melts silently into a mesh of schedules that interfere with my somewhat feeble attempt at \living or if it's simply an overbearing, incomprehensible noun that dictates a minute, a mo- ment, a lifetime. Time is an ab- straction. A concert of overworked watches, struggling to please their bearers in a harmonious ticking of second hands--ideally, moving slowly when there is much to do and flying when anticipation strikes. It all started when we were little kids. In a simpler way, time con- trolled our playtime and l'et us know when to go to bed. Remem- ber that? When sleep was actually important, wllen we were forced kicking and screaming to get un- der the covers. Our moms and dads would tell us that when the sun hit the place where sky and land met, it was time to come inside. The sky splashed into a fiery blaze of or- ange marmalade and strawberry jam, and darkness was next to kiss the air. Since we were scared of the dark, we ran into the shelter of our white, paper cutout houses and listened obediently to our parents. In an innocent way we didn't think twice, didn't realize that it was a portent of time's handle over the rest of our lives. Then, when we grow up (or at least think we do), we realize that darkness simply has to be ignored, that the fun starts with the setting sun. Friday nights mean ten o'clock movies and Ben and Jerry's afterwards. Maybe Mom and Dad still have to drive, but you make them pick you up around the comer from the theater, where no one can see you hopping into the mini-van--a ridiculous notion, anyway, be<:ause every preteen without a license is in the same pre- dicament. Suddenly, high school hits and classes start to actually mean something. Watching Animaniacs at 4:00PM is replaced by the al- mighty \e~tracun~icular activity\ (newspaper, track, cheerleading, etc .... tak.:l your pick) used to nicely pad that college application. Despite the new-found work and · ptesstue, weekends become glori- ous and take on new mean in g. They are filled with all sorts of lawbreaking, underage partaking, and stereotype-reinforcing events. There is a party around every cor- ner, typified by some girl whose parents are away in Tahiti for the weekend. Of course she has to have every{)ne and their second cousin over to witness the charade. Time marches on and wakes the house for frantic 7 AM cleanups before Mom and Dad come home to the stench of spilled beer and half-srnoked cigare~s. There is so much to do, so many people to put on an act for. So little time. College, on the other hand, is a completely different playing field. The perfectly-timed schedule of 1.:30 PM classes leave nights open to all sorts of craziness). Weal- ways find time for the partying and madness of college life, despite term papers and chapters upon chapters of reading. Nothing really ~- •. . ever gets done until tile \final hour\anyway when cramming is best and time management is men- by Reuel Daniels Contributing Writer tioned only as an afterthought. All right, I know. I got way too College is about a fa:'>t pace, yet eager when it came to signing up somehow hours are spent loung- for various clubs at the club fair ing in absolute slothful repose, re• the other day. What can I say? I covering from the previous night's am a freshman. Big deal- ... you were festivities--and wewonderwhywe once one too. You know what it's are so rushed in those twilight like to get excited about little in- hours. significant things that your high I can't seem to makt; sense of it school didn't offer. I mean, are you all. It scares me sometimes when I . saying that it is wrong for me to wake up in the morning and know want to be involved at my school? that I won't have time toeat lunch I wish I could have been more in• at all. I hate the fact that l have to . · volved in high school, but sports meter out my hours into 15-minute time periods of appointments with professors and calls to my family; and .it always seems to be that the first thing to be sacrificed is sleep. There is no schedule for bedtime anymore. I used to believe that I was busy in high school. I suppose I was living a fallacy, because now I'm lucky if I even know what the ten o'clock movie is, much less have time .to watch it; and I haven't stepped into a Ben and Jerry's in months. Recently, Organic Chem- istry has become my nemesis, in constant battle with my desire to sleep. (I get sort of restless at night when I know that I have to under- stand the difference between hy- bridizations, when I am barely able to remember what day of the week it is.) It has literally consumed my life, and I suppose if all the time I spent worrying about it were placed into studying it, I'd be golden. If only there were 36 h()urs in a day. Then again, I'd probably sleep for most of them anyway. Oh well, good night. and applying to colleges kind of . got in the way. I did have friends who did ev- erything, but then again I never saw them out on the weekends. I'm not saying I went out a lot . . . · maybe a little ... but these friends were so overwhelmed that they forgot what fun was. Here, that is not the case. These clubs I signed up for were devel- oped for organized fun. They were started so that you can meet people and get involved. I guess maybe it was the spur of the moment thing: while you walk around those tables, many different things catch your eye, and in a whole minute you'veputyour name, phone, box, and I. D. numberon everything Of course, then your voice mail gets bombarded with little messages you would rather skip over to get to your actual important messages. · It's upsetting when your voice mail says \four new messages\ and the four messages aren't exactly personal ones. I went to the club fair twice that day. Not because I wanted to sign up for more, but because I was dragged by various friends. Of J~~d:~··,~~br .· cdi:ftee·.:,·<::,·;,lu_b . at: •''j~(~~ :r~~ll~~\ \ .- .. ·:· Recei·ve after P---- Wa--- ... .-.._-: eekly an.d course, the second time I went I saw a few clubs that I had missed, so of course my hand flew to the sign up sheet. I had to be restrained by my roommate, who threatened that ifi signed up for anything else she would make me attend every meeting. I think that did it and I kept my hands in my pockets as she bounced form one table to the next as if to tease me. I was satis- fied with my choices. I found some very exciting clubs, and I hope to attend their meetings to further,my curiosity. I am not being eager. I was just a· bit overwhelmed with the choices I had encountered. If you have ever been to a relatively small, high school club fair you would know what I am talking about when I say choice. There were some clubs that were excit- ing in high school if you liked community service, .SADD, and other types of student volunteer- ing organizations. I participated in some of those, but think about that compared to ballroom dancing, ka- rate, cycling, singing, ceramics, and many others (please forgive me if I left any club in particular out, as those were the, first ones to pop into my head). The list is end- less, and, if you don't see what you want, you can always start one up yourself. The opportunities l was faced with excited me and drove me per- haps to the point of wanting to do and try everything. I cannot do that! I probably will partake in three or four different things this term, but they are all at different times and require the use of dif- ferenttools. I look forward to some of these clubs, and I hope to get out of them what they really have to offer. I ~ tl n n tc tc tc sc

by Anonymous Where to start? Here's a good place--the Concordy. Much thanks for burying us in the back of the Features pages. We appre- ciate it. Due to the slacking ofthe Concordiensis staff, we'd also like to apologize for the lateness ofthe appearance of Djahmbi and Mohmar's letter-hole. It is there now, so abuse us with your com- ments. Now onto this weeks rant. Before we proceed any further, we must address Mr. Schultz• s comment about the class of2000. Perhaps we didn't read your article quite correctly, but did you say that there was no way in the world you looked as clueless as the class of 2001. Hate to disappoint you Eu- gene, but you were, as were your classmates. Let's just leave that one. Up next, everyone's favorite topic and person--finances with Kevin Abessi, America's future CPA: A few qu-estions, Mr. Abessi, why were you keeping \major\ clubs out of the red by absorbing their debts with funds of other smaller clubs? Did yot! feel that these sm·aner clubs were less im- portant? Why did you keep let- ting the bigger clubs overspend? Any math or economics majors out there who might be able to clear this up are welcome to try, as Djahmbi and Mohmar aren't e~­ actly the brightest people. As seasoned veterans ofmany fraternity belching contests and those wonderful projectile vomit- ing competitions, we are just curi- ous as to what the @#$% hap- pened this weekend? Hello? Why aren't you sharing your beer with us any longer? While we do real- ize that we have never contributed to the beer fund, that ·is no reason to cut us off ... not now; not our senior year. Contrary to the edi- torial, senior year is about catch- ing up on lost times, which in- cludes plenty of drinking .. Happy hour anyone? And now for the Drum rooooooolllllllll ... we did receive a few letters, but here's one we would like to address: Djahmbi & Mohmar-_ I was annoyed by those people who at last minute chost; not to go to Israel and how they behaved after the fact. While J suppose I understand why they chose not to go, {Jut, as someone who has been on a term abroad, 1 also know that when you sign your papers .to go away, .one of them concerns your housing. Basically, you're at the whim of Res. Lifo. Everyone who goes away, knows this. So if these people thought they'd be treated differently, who do they think they are? You abide by those rules, and deal with it, 1 mean they chose NOT to go. So they should deal with it. Guido, in Webster Now that Djahmbi's out of the room fetching a freezy frosty bev- erage, I' II take the reigns. Mohmar' s note: I hear ya' Guido! I too was personally disturbed (more so than usual) about the Is- rael term abroad situation. I agree that these people knew what they were signing and what they were getting themselves into; and if not, it's called read the fine print. By the way, those of you who chose to not go to Israel, you owe Residence Life your first born. As an· avid watcher of the news and a loyal reader of the newspa- per, exactly when was the last bomb that went off in the Negev? It's called, \be a smart traveler and tourist and don't go to areas that you know there have been prob~ Pointless Observations by David Kay Contributing Writer Is it just me, or is the entire for- eign population here Canadian? It seems like everywhere I walk, all I hear is, \When's hockey practice, ferns before.\ Hello! eht' Or worse yet, at a party I'll Yum. Now that I'm back with · hear, \How come they don't serve my beverage of choice and Molson here?''; and since almost Mohmar is on the can (hemorrhoid all ofthe Canadians play hockey, alert), it is Djahmbi's tum to say a they're all in the early to mid-20's. few things: ', Maybe it would be useful to start First, is the Negev Desert lo- a family section for the players' cated in New Jersey or Connecti- wives and children at Achilles cut? Next, why does everything Rinkforthem towatch. That might in the convenience store cost so not be such a bad idea, eh? much and with such a wide selec- . Well, it might have been a bad tion of beverage options, where is idea to write that nobody cared the Tang? Oh, wait. Wasn't WW about Mother Theresa dying in my III last week? Lastly,. if there is a last column. Obviously someone leash law in Schenectady, why are must have cared by the response I so many freshmen wandering got in my mailbox. around campus? I am just curi- Here's an excerpt: \How can ous. you write such disgusting things Just to show that we are equal about that wonderful woman? opportunity a$$hoJes, this one Mother Theresa was a living Saint goes out to the Academic Affairs and did more for humanity than Council (AAC). Along with this Princess Diana ever did smiling new class schedule, will we have and waving. And about Mother Theresa having more wrinkles on her face than Roseanne Barr on her butt? What were you thinking? I hope that you never write another article for this paper again; some- one should put anend toyour short career before you get too far. \ Here are some more negative comments: \Well here we go. Somebody trying to do Thurberville. Is it just me, or do 1 smell rancid imitation? Why don't you just start a top ten list big guy. I don't see your column going any- where.\ I only got one positive response, though: \Finally somebody speaking the truth. It 's about time .the big guy upstairs put an end to that woman's miserable existence. How can anyone survive 88 years as a virgin? Let this be a message to all the freshman girls on cam- pus who are saving themselves up for Mr. Right. \ Well, until next time, send mail or friendly comments to David Kay at box #1058. recess and bells put in the class- rooms? Just take a look behind the Reamer and at the library. Can you say ;,monkey bars\? We thought Listen to the Music we graduate'd high school a num- ber of years ago. Did the AAC actually think that this \common lunch\ would work? There is hardly enough room for those people who eat at the \high time\ of 12: 15 on Mon- . day, Wednesday, and Friday, and that's not even everyone. Perhaps this rush could be alle- viated if we could walk into a din- ing hall, press a button, and have a complete nutritional pellet drop onto our tray, then for a beverage go suck some water from a tube sticking out of the wall, or just give the Greeks back the kitchens. Ah, the lesser of two evils. Hmmmmmm ... pellet ... yummy. Now we're done and you will have to wait another week for your next installment of Djahmbi and Mohmar. Be like Guido and drop us some letters. If that is too difficult, we also accept fraternity invites. by Matt Finkelstein Contributing Writer gos and trademark harmonies that helped them sell over 20,000 cop- ies of their debut album, \Para- chute.\ Guster has received accolades from fans and industry types alike for their hard work and unique approach. The Boston Globe at- tempted to describe how they con- tinue to thrill its audiences by de- scribing the band as a \ ... a fury of intense blistering guitars, per- colating bongos, and impeccable vocal harmonies. With the unique instrumentation of two acoustic guitars and a set of bongos and congas, they have earned the luxury of defYing the usual indus- try pigeonholing.\ RIDING THE PINE Previously known as Acoustic Junction, the quartet Fool's Progress's huge grass roots follow- ing stretches from Boston to Boul- der to San Francisco. In addition to selling over 50,000 copies of two independent albums, these Boulder, Colorado natives have toured relentlessly and shared con- cert bills with Blues Traveler, Little Feat, The Dave Matthews Band, Widespread Panic, and the Band. by Eugene Schultz Contributing Writer The scene: a lone student is walking towards the campus cen- ter on a bright sunny fall day. He is passing under some trees near Fox, when all of a sudden a h'issing ball of fur has dropped no more than two feet in frontofhim. Nearly peeing his pants, the stu- dent takes a look around to see if anyone else has seen the killer squirrels. This, my friends,. is not a scene from a movie. It is, in fact, a nearly daily occurrence here at good old Union College. People, Union has a problem-- no, not a drinking problem, hut a squirrel infestation. That is not all, people, q,ur own president knows about this problem. Here is the kicker: the squirrels are Roger Hull's own private anny. Laugh if you want, but it is true. Much like the scene in The Lion King, President HuiVScar stands over his squirrels/hyenas as they march past him in a parade that makes one think of Communist Russia. The next logical question to be asked is, why is President Hull training his demon squirrel army? In my opinion, President Hull is waiting to launch his army of fur against the time when he can raise no more money and is forced out of office. Now, I know some of you people out there are saying, \Well he can't win a warwith just ground troops.\ Unfortunately, Roger has thought of this. His large supply of killer blackbirds covers this problem. So, to all my fellow Union students, please watch out for this gray menace; and when the day comes that they rise up and take control~ just remember this warning that I gave. Fool's Progress changed their name because their eclectic sound and energized live shows defy tra- ditional boundaries of rock and acoustic music. Now, the group's self-titled Capricorn Records de- but documents a new phase oftheir growing success story. Echoing the sentiments of rabid fans and impressed journalists, the Boston Globe recently hailed the group's \unassuming charm\ and declared \this is the rare band that can convey a ballad as naturally as it can a rocker.\ Come with your friends for a jammin' night of music and memories with Guster and Fool's Progress (formerly known as Acoustic Junction) at the Memo- rial Fieldhouse, this Friday, Sep- tember 26, at 8 PM. ..

Page .~4 • September.25, 1.997 • illlrl' (f[J.rzu:m·Nl'Jt!iiis . · . · Ad\'ertisemcnt Focus'97 ·Career Festival! To --~nJtyft 'h · · S 2·- ·.h· 124 . un .· ... , L · urs., ·. ept., ... st , ···· · ··. pm · Union Field House.· Rain or Shine ·· It's Not Just For Seniors! • Internships • • Summer Jobs • • Part·time Jobs • Particiuatin& Emplo:f~rs Accountemps Amerada Hess Corporation Andersen Consulting Ben Atlantic Central Hudson Gas & Electric Coopers & Lybrand Delmar Publishers Delphi Automotive Systems DIS Researcll Enterprise Rent-A-Car Equis Fleet Technology Solutions · Four 'Winds Program General Dynamics -Armament General Dynamics .. Electric Boat Division General Electric .. Corporate Benefits Delivery General Electric Power Systems HewiU Associates ' Hoechst Marion Rollssel Innova Marketing International Foundation of Employee Benefits John Hancock Financial Services Kaplan Educational Center Keane Key Bank Lockheed Martin- KAPL Massachusetts Electric Company Menill Lynch Net Daemons Associates Northwestern Mutual Life- Latham NYS Assembly Intern Committee NYS Electric &: Gas Office Team Prudential Preferred FinallCial Services Quad/Graph~cs Raytheon Electronic Systems Stone & Webster The Kodiak Gro11p Thomson Financial Services Trustco Bank u.s. Anny Recruitill£ Station U.S. Marines Corps, Officer Selection U. S. Postal Service United Parcel Service Westinghoose Xerox Corporation Participa.tinl! . SchQols Albany Law School Boston College Law School Brooklyn Law ScboOl Columbia University .. Pbysiad Therapy Columbia University Teachers Colle-ge Marlst College Mount Sinai Graduate School of B-iological Sciences New England School of Law New York Cbiropractic College New York College of Podiatric Medicine New York University .. Scbool of Medicine Nortbeastern University Ohio Northern University CoUege of Law Rensselaer at Hartford Sage Colleges Suffolk University Law School SyraCuse University The College of Saint Rose Touro Law Center Union College Educational Studies Union College Graduate Management Institute University at Buffalo School of Management University of Dayton School of Law Vermont Law School Western New England School of Law Widener University Scbool of Law Be Prepared: . • Dress neatly, in business attire if possible. • Bring several copies of your resume. The CDC can help you prepare one; call388-6176. · • A handout entitled, uHow to Get the Most Out of the Career Festival·\ is available at the CDC.

. . Features. · September 25, 1997 · ti:lrr·<£rinrnrbirusiz; • Page 15 Tburberville Revisited For all of you attempting to recreate the \innovative\ humor presented by Rawson Thurber's old Thurberville column, here's a reminder of his writing. Good luck with the sarcasm. If you missed Frat~Stock, then you've missed the coolest thing to happen at Union this year. The hand, the rain, the mud~slides? and the fungus all teamed up to make the day magical. It was enough to make you forget about the exorbitant amount· .of money ~barged to attend this institution. So, to all who attended this year's event, a hearty \God - Bless You!\ To those who missed it, well, there's always next year. On · with the show . . . Here's the Top ten List. Top Ten Rejected Frat .. stock Slogans 10. Nature Grows It, You Eat It. 9. If Jake Doesn't Get Naked, Your Money Back. 8. 70 Kegs, One Tap. 7. Frat-Stock: $28,000 Cover Charge. 6. Come See Dean Alford Chicken Out! 5. Mud: It's God's Soap! 4. Come Throw Defenseless Women Down a Dangerous Hill. 3. Pfrat-Stock; The Silent \P\ is for Pneumonia. 2. Drugs Is Good. 1. Sometimes You Just Gotta Say, \What the F**k\ and Make Your Move. Another Top Ten List from a previo'IJS column. Top Ten Things I Would Do As An Alumnus, Other Than Read The Concordp: 10. Shave my back with a cheese grater. 9. Lick stamps until my tongue had its own adhesive powers. 8. Watch C-Span 2. 7. Listen to WRUC. 6. Bounce miJlion dollar checks to alumni fund. 5. Rearrange my sock drawer by smell. 4. Staple-gun my scrotum to Dean Schurick's desk. 3. Tape the Weather Channel. 2. Explore my own orifices. 1. Live in the now. The Dutchmen Quiz: Just making conversation by Anjali Balasingham Staff Writer Lately, 1' ve been at a loss for words. Ijust can't seem to have an intelligent conversation with anyone. Care to help me out? So, how was your trip to The Late Show with David Letterman? a} That Paul Shaffer's got nothin' on John Tesh. b) It Was great . . . until Dave's toupee fell off when he bent over to touch his toes. c) I didn't think they'd really kick me out. All I did was yell, \Jay rules!\ How are your classes going this term? a) Classes? b) PBS has been airing this great documentary on the use of wetland plants in the process of waste purifica- tion, so I really haven't had time to hit the books yet. c) I believe that fonnal, organized education robs the soul, and that we can only truly become learned through social interaction. Which part of the Concordy do you find the most,eothral- ling? a) The Global News section. b) The staff box. c) The suspenseful campus announcements. Which professor will be reviewed for tenure next week? What do you think about Chelsea Clinton going to Stanford· University? a) It's just great. I'm sure the privileged little soot- nosed brat was accepted into the school \solely because of her own merit.\ b) Look, her life is her own business, and Hard Copy reported that she's not even dating anyone interest- ing there, so just leave a celebrity alone, huh'? Journalists--you're all alike. c) So, Union's just not good enough for her. Is that it? Well, fine. We could do with a little less p11b Jicity anyway. The new TV season is underway. What's your take on the lineups? a) l got a pretty bad scare when I found out that ABC had canceled Family Matters, but everything turned out okay when I realized that CBS had picked it up. I did all that worrying for nothing. b) I was surprised to see Beverly Hills 90210 still running. I tb.ought for sure the cast members would retire now that they're all eligible to receive Social Security benefits. c) I found the new Baywatch babes insulting and offensive. I mean, do they really tb.ink I can't tell the difference between silicone and the real thing? Seen any good movies lately? a) I'm boycotting the movie industry until they bring me a sequel to Good Burger. b) Leave It To Beaver was awesome. That Lumpy Rutherford--what a fox! c) I think Cinemax has g()t a real blockbuster in the works. It stars Jenny McCarthy as a Nobel Prize- winning physicist and Walter Mattltau as her love interest. Shaquille O'Neal is directing, and Yanni's doing the sound-track. The Marvelous Art of Saying \Hi\ by Matt Aronowitz Staff Writer Construction ... blaah. 35th rank in the nation ... blaah, blaah. Sod- omy ... blaah blaah blaah. I'm sorry, but I have nothing to corn- plain about. I think that's good, because I got a lot of positive feed- back from last year's \This letter sucks\ letter. Anyway, I want to start this off by saying how much I love being a sophomore. You get all the ex- periences of being a freshman without all the confusion, and a lot more work. One of the quirks of being a sophomore is that you know plenty of people, but not even close to all the people you'll know at school. A problem arises, though--scrying hi in passing. This is one of the most impor- tant underrated talents at college. Think about it. Remember el- ementary school (at least for me. I hope this applies to many people here) . Everyone says hi to every- one else, since they haven't really formed the cliques yet. Then came middle school, where eventually the kids from elementary school that you weren't friends with would just walk right by you. High school was just a blur to me, so I' II let you fill in you own story (insert high school experience here). The rest ofthis article will have some sentences written in the first person, so it isn't like I'm telling you w}lat your life is like. It seems to me that there are several types of people at school. The first group is just unknown names and unknown faces. An occasional smile will suffice. Next come the people whose names and faces you know al- though you've never met. You've probably heard about what a player that guy is or just have stalked a really attractive person and now know random things about them, such as where his or her father works. Or; you might just be in class with him or her. In any event, when I walk by these people, their names flash into my mind, and I try to remember how I've heard of this person. The next group is the \I've met you once or twice at school, but I don 'tremeril- ber your name.\ This is pretty self- explanatory. After you meet them you say, \What's up?\ for a few days, then eventual1y if you see them coming, you do anything possible not to make eye contact. This happens because people pre- tend not to know you a lot, since \I was really dnmk last night\ is \I'm not bitter. I'm just doing a little public analyzation. \ often followed by \I'm sorry. I don't remember you.\ The eye-contact thing is a prob- lem. You know. You see a per- son coming up the walkway that you don't want to say hel1o to, so all of a sudden the Alumni Gym looks like a pretty interesting thing to stare at, or wait a minute, check out those extremely interesting mailboxes. I also like the straight ahead stare. That ... ,., 1 ,.,a:ro I really hope I'm making sense just \HeliQ Acquaintances.\ When here. I see this type of person, I try and Of course there are the genuine make small talk with little success. friends thatyoualwayshavesome- That's because we're both tltink- thingtosayto or would run across ing, \I still remember why I the Reamer Campus Semi-Circle stopped hanging out with y<m.\ to talk to for 30 seconds. Good Since people like to pretend to for- friends are the least of my worries. get names, I always mention the When they ask, \Howzit go in'\ other person's name in my greet- they actually care. ing: \Hey Jane,\ \Hey Dick~\ My question of the week is... \Hey Roman,\ \Hey Fat@$&.,\ do people actually expect a re- or \Hey they killed Kenny~\ sponse to, \What's up?,\ \Howzit Parties seem to obliterate my go in' ?,\ \How are ya? ,\ \How theory by 98%, give or take a few wuz yer summa?,\ or \Couldja percentage points. Everybody, in please shut the#$/\&* up?\ I pre- their own state of merry bliss, fer to just pretend that \hi\ has seems to act a lot friendlier. A typi- been said to me, instea<l of one cal conversation proceeds as f<>l- these commonly uttered phrases. lows: Yet, there are some people who \Hi Matt. Howzit goin'? l take offense when you don't take haven't seen you in a while ... the precious time to answer their \Yes you have, but you feel th<Jt unique questions. If everyone just staring at the Nott is easier than said, ''Hi,\ \Hello or\Hey my saying hi to me. Let's do luncJ1. feeble mind would be at ease. Bye.\ Let's see ... oh, there are also I'm not bitter. I'm just doing a friends who don't meritthe semi- little public analyzation. A few circle cross, but who, ifyou were things before I go--only positive at a meal alone, you would ap- feedback is welcomed. Come to proach to sit with. There's also the Coffee House, Tuesday night at peoplewho'youusedt()befriends 9:00PM in Raymond North. with, but for some reason are now Beefcake ... beefcake!

Video Games, DJ Tapes, LPs, 12\. Singles, an,d More· ... has greatly expanded its used book section 950 State St., Schenectady • (518) 381-\9183 Great batgains.on 1 1 000~t of.bookson the arts, cultures, environment, textbooks. and for the general reader. BUY - SE.LL- lRADE We ·lll't! cun-ently selling o large li1Jr(ll)1 -of African, 4/'rican-American, tmd Social Sl:ielfCes books. Some bot,lkl are prketl. M01t sellaf flat rates: Healtb C.arc. Tl1ose nvo words have bcell the sour(e of much discussiort recently. Probably DO(ause we as i1 nation know the importance of investing in a bealtll)' .. ruture. So do millions of patients who choose chiropractic as their prefmed source (>f IMJaldt ~are. The chiropractic beliefs in fitness. nutritiont prevention, and nantral maintenance make g<Jod sense. Wellness. you see 1 i.s tlte normal state of being. New York State government agrees. They have ~ctntly passed the Insurance Eq~~tllty bill that mandates insur~tt<:e <:overage for chiropractic taN. For over 75 years. Nc:w· York Chiropractic: College ltas upheld t tradition of excellen.<e in cbiropractie higher cducatimi. 011r c:ombined traditi<>ns, old and n.-ew, have! built tilt- base from which the cbiropractic doctors <lf d1e furure are created. Choose New YotkChiroprnetic CoUege. A healdly in\'estment for today ;1nd tomorrow. Visit with the NYCC representati~;e at the Graduate artcl Professional School Fair on Sept.cmber 2S, l2PM·4PM, Field Hcu$<!. .ttlit.. NEW YORK A CHIROPRACTIC COLLEGE 2360 Route 89 Set~eCa F:aJJs. NYU14S~0800 Phon~: US1568·3C40 or 80012l4·NYCC {~~22} Fax: 3151568 .. 3087 E·mwt: enrolnGW@\ycc.cd~J --------------- PAltr 1 MEET PEOPlE AHD. GET PAID Promtfe KODAK. SpnllJirealc trips WE'll pay you more than any~n~ efse ... GUARANTEEDI NO liSK .•• we handle ~II tfte bookkeeping • . ® CAll WORLD ClASS VACAnOMS f ·800.212-4432 011t 21scyear - .._ .. - Hard C<wer- $2.00 0 Trnde Paperbttck • $1.00 \ Popular Paperback -50¢ Buy three, g?t onefreel Open 9:;J0..-5:00prn Wed.•Sun:, open till 9;00pm.onThllrS., closed Mon., Tues. 2 blocks west QfRoute 146 .. In the same builrling .as: the Whitehouse Flea Mark;et, with over 50 ether interesting shops. lfiscm~e. R.b & JJtscovUf r.,- .... ··-----, .:25% Off: r Entire PUrdia.se ' I ~~~·$pedal~~ I I W'llll.tlli$.0011ji!lP•ltxpireJll/1197. I . ·L • ..., - .... - _. -· - '*' - - J P R I N C I 1 1 L E S u f S 0 l' 1'\ D ll E T I R E l\.1 E ~ T l N \' E S T l N G OVER ONE MILLION OFTHEBEST MINDS IN AMERICA HAVE ALREADY CHOSEN THE~ BEST RETIREMENT SYSTEM. TIAA-CREF. ~'1. Then it Ctlmes to planning a comfort- VV able future, over 1.8 million of America's hestand brightest count on TIAA-CREF. With $190 billion in assets, we're the world's largest retirement company, the nation's leader in customer satisfaction, and the overwhelming choice of people in education, research and. related fields~ The reason? For nearly 80 years, 1'IAA-CR£F has introduced 'intelligent solutions to America's long-term plafi11ing needs. We pioneered. portable benefits. We invented the var.iable. annuity and helped populari:ze the very concept of stock inv~5ting for retirement planning. Today. TlAA·CREFs expertise offers an impressive range of ways ttl help you create a comfortable and s.ecure tomtlrrow. From the guarantees of 7IAA.\s top-rated Traditional Annuity<~<:~ to the additional growth opportunities of OUr V4triable invest- ment accounts, you11 find th~ llexibilit;y and diversity you need to help you meet: your .long-ter~ goals. And they're all backed by some of the most kn6wledgea.Ue investment managers in the industry. To learn more about tbe world's pre- . mie:r retirement or.ganiza.tiora:, speak to one of our expert oonsultants at 1 -800 842-2716 (8 a.m.~Il p.m. ET), Or better still. speak to one of your colleaguet~. Firul out why, when it comes to planning for tomorrow, great mind$ tnink alikt. Visit us on the lntet'net at www.tiaa-cref.org .. !Ia~ QJ! 11 ~U~'~~<!S •~nd«{~ -In 1995 ey ail itwl.,pcndtnt org;ulizulon ill ~·hl!.'h %'% uf relpO!I-i• elt~ t\JWI';\)( illiilliadloo.r. -with TIM ·CREF. ••TIAA ;. ont ~ ootv a lt..uldwl of C111mpat~iot. th:.t ~'llrll>mty ·J.old rhr f>i«~t~~~;~rll$ (,_ iiKo 1\o\ik>n'~ J..,l~ i~nd .. ~t ratin;t ~Ct~>t~ f.,.. ~ability, . ootllld in\,.,_11Wil~ .:bims·p:~yUtl Ahltl\¥. -· uvt:r~~lllinanl'ial ~re~h: A•• (Supi•rior), A;.!\t. lltltil Co.; AM, l>u!l' It PLdfJO-: halt. :\~• lnw;.~on Servio~; AAA. Stand.ud and Poor\<. TIAA's gmrante~• ill'f ·~k-'11 by It• (laim5-payio.g aQilir..y. 'f!t..u~Q ~iui• ofTIAA u an l~u,.~~t~ ~~m1pany •1<1 nm •PI>I.v to CRJ£1'. CRRI' ''erMit'.QlCa ~..., .li .. ributed'~ TIM·CflEF lmlividual and .lnmiltlliuJtal S.:l\'lke. f...:. F;,r 1111>1'1' <'llnaplc:lo inforrn.uku>, i.~luding ;·ht<rf~$ 1111d expm~e~, ~·Ill !100 &42-27JS. ~~>~tio.- 6;)Q9, fi>t ;. PM II\''\\'· Re.ad dw P\<\'l)e<:ll\ ~·.-.,..,r,,l!y l\'f•>r<' you inv\\' t>rll<!11<.1 m~.l'·

THE W'ORLDAWVAITS YOU ••• I'NTHE CDC Updates ••• · Visit our web slte at bUp://www.unfon.edu/career/cddcdc.html for all the latest events« c.\llll JUTIVAL 'IDc1ayJ Represeotatlvesofnadonal and local businesses, gov«nmentagen- cies. and graduate schools will lie on hand in the Field House from IZ. 4pm to discuss caroor opponunldes in their organitatlons and fields. Everyone Is welcome. •JUSJNISf mQUI 1 11 1 1 1 Ale NIIWORlCING• With alumni Hallie HeUer, Danielle Buck and Charlie King in RCC At~d .. on Sept. 25 at Spm. AleiRSIN CONSULTIN4 INfORMATION SISSION Everyone is welcome to discuss the opportunitle$ available at Andersen on Sept. 25 from 1·9pm .in Old Chapel on llle first floor. ON-cAMPUS RICRUITIN4 PIADliNI . Selection cards and resumes wUl be aooepted tGmorrow in the Career Development Center ftom 8:30-5pm from any graduating seniors tnt«· . ested .in fall term recruiting. See a list of the oompanies accepting tesunle$ at the C~. rn order to participate you mttst complete file Recruidng Con~ tract Come to the CDC for details. SPECIAL DIOP.IN HOVIS Car~ Advisors wiJI be available au day tomorrow from 9·5pm to give a INTERNET ACCESS $ \19.95 /per ~non*h lnclud:es.: Untiwni't•d lr~tern~'t Access,. E-Mail~ a:nd 1 0 Megs of Web Spac\e\! CHAT FTP ';NEWS SOFTWARE www E ... MAIL WEB SPACE IRC CALL NOW (518)453-1-1'1-1 THE PANHELLENIC COUNCIL PRESENTS: \The Naked Truth\ ,~ -' . The greek women 1Jf Uniott · ·College C{)me together to Slww what they r~all!, think of -campus life! ' Monday, September 19th, 9':8D at Chet's

P~lgc 18 • September 25, I 997 • <rl!t' <ftm~tlri'liensis . . Arts & Entcr·tain111cnt Rating System: . Full Priee Matinee Price Rent It Wait for Late Night TV I'd rather have a •.• ln and Out Staring: Kevin Kline Tom Selleck Joan Cusack Written by: Paul Rudnick Directed by: FrankOz Rating: Matinee Price Imagine for a moment that you live in the tranquil town of Greenleaf, lndiana. You and your fiance are sitting on the couch, watching the Academy A wards ceremony. Suddenly, one of your former students, who has recently become a Hollywood star, wins an award. In the middleofhis accep~ tance speech, he calls your sexu~ · ality into question--on national television. Imagine how this would change your life. Well, in this summer's version of the The Bird Cage, this is the predicament that Howard Brackett (Kevin Kline) finds himself in. Just days before his weddjng to Emily Montgomery (Joan In and Out Matinee at Best Coffee House Sucessful Cusack), Brackett's once tranquil world is turned Upside-down faster than he can say \Don't Ask. Don't Tell.\ The town is in disbelief. Questions and comments, such as these that follow, are heard an around the town. Could their fa- vorite teacher be gay?; but, he can't be gay. He is about to be married. However, he does teach the drama class, and he does love Barbara Streisand records. The town of Greenleaf becomes the scene of a media feeding frenzy, lead by reporter Peter Malloy (Tom Selleck). Malloy is an un- scrupulous, aggressive reporter, bent on getting Beckett to speak the truth. Kevin Kline gives an excellent performance as Howard Barrett wrestling the issue of whether or not he is .gay. It is his mQst h~lad­ ous performance since A Fish Called Wanda. Torn Selleck also puts in a great effort as the ruth- less reporter, Peter Malloy. Selleck seems to have fun portraying the type of news hounds who often pester stars in real life. In and Out is a comedy about someone being forced out of the by Gina LaSorsa Contributing Wriier closet. Director Frank Oz and Last Tuesday marked the first writer Paul Rudnick take the sub- . night of the 1997 Coffee House ject of \outing\ and present it in : year. The night proved to be a big an amusing manner. Unlike the success. By 8:30 PM, a relatively movie Philadelphia, which tack- large group had formed,. an.d led ~he issue of how society deals • people were still continuing to fill with homosexuality, In and Out is the room. Everyone sat patiently not a film about issues. The ques- for the first performer to begin. tions and situations are the same The freshmen lounged on the in both movies, hut In and Out couches, while the Coffee House presents these as a comic misun- \regulars\ drank their coffee and derstanding. It can be most lik- conversed with one another. ened to last summer's hit movie, The evening began with some The BirdCage. guitar music featuring Frank This. Week at the Reamer Barbarino '98. PhillipCh() '00 and My Best Friend's Wedding Marius Calin '00 read poetry, and Rating: Missed It. Matt Aronowitz '00 played his JuliaRobertsatteJ;llptstokeepher . guitar as well At one point, best friend from getting married Barnaby Frumess '01 took Matt's because she still loves him. guitar and unexpectedly started to Poetry at Kappa A-pha play for the group~ Some of the highlights of the evening include sophomore Michelle Tardiff's sax solo, accompanied by sophomore by Marius CaUn Contributing Writer Friday night, between 9 PM and 11 :30 PM, Kappa Alpha was home to a congregation of artists. Whether or not they performed their own creations, each pre- formed with a passion as if it were his or her own. The performances ranged from guitar solos to poetry to a short skit (conceived minutes before the per- formance) and a short story read- ing. The wide array oftalents dis- played kept the mood swinging, from melancholy poems about love lost, to a beautiful rendition of Paul Simon's \The Boxer,\ a comic interpretation on the mean- ing of life in a dialogue, and the · juggling of fluorescent balls in the dark. Kappa Alpha, a coed literary so- ciety located in the gray house be- tween the tennis courts and Wells Hillary London's '00 a capella in- House, created a comfortable en- vironment for the performers. The event took place in its living room, lit by candles and a \School of As- trology\ sign. All who wished to perform were asked to sign a sheet. As an artist finished, someone else would be randomly called. The stage, a po- dium, was surrounded by an audi- ence sitting on chairs, sofas, and the floor. The audience was made of the artists who would perform later or who had already per~ fonned. Its warm response encour- aged those shy and insecure to go up to the podium and share. The idea and the results ofKA's event were noteworthy. The light mood encouraged the performers to feel at ease, knowing that their work would not be mocked. The troduction (which, by the way, de- . manded an encore performance). At the end Qf the night, an ex- change student from Britain sang while playing his guitar. He would not reveal his name, but tbe audi- ence insisted he play some more · when he tried to stop. The night was indeed a huge suc· cess. \I was very pleased wi1h the turnout and the hospitality of the audience towards the artists,,, says Marius Calin '00. Tuesday night was definitely a preview of some great things to come from the Cof· fee House. Everyone seemed to truly enjoy the entertainment. A general feeling of relaxation filled . the room, which was a great relief after a long and stressful day. All ofthe performances were great as well. Some of those who per· artists felt accepted, and the com- formed did not, in fact, expect to mentary of those in attendance was be performing and took advantage genuine. of the open mic. COME INTO MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! Schenectady -1041 State Street- 382-5776 • •1 1;,·,· ,f, . ...~ .. ~

·j>~g~·-·t,s .•. s-~.ptein~er2~(1997:~i!rlp~m .. ~;t.,~,~~ieit~t~.·--·~----- .. - ·_· .. ·- · · ' .. -_- . · · _ _· . - ·- -_ Atts.&.Enterhai~ment ~ • o , • • ' , 1 • ~ , , , I , , - , , , • • ' • ' : • • '• • ' Rating System: Ful~l Price Matinee Price Rent It Wait for Late Night TV I'd rather have a ... l.n and Out Staring: Kevin Kline Tom Selleck Joan Cusack Written by: Paul Rudnick Directed by: Frank Oz Rating: Matinee Price Imagine for a moment that you live in the tranquil town of Greenleaf, Indiana. You and your fiance are sitting on the couch, watching the Academy Awards ceremony. SMddenly, one of your former students, who has recently become a Hollywood star, wins an award. In the middle of his accep- tance speech, he calls your sexu- ality into question--on national television. Imagine how this would change your life. Well, in this summer's version of the The Bird Cage, this is the predicament that Howard Brackett (Kevin Kline) finds himself in. Just days before his wedding to Emily Montgomery (Joan In and Out Matinee at Best Cusack), Brackett's once tranquil world is turned upside-down fa .. ter than he can say \Don't Ask. Don't Tell.\ The town is in disbelief. Questions and comments, such as these that follow, are heard all around the town. Could their fa- vorite teacher be gay?; but, he can't be gay. He is about to be married. However, he does teach the drama class, and he does love Barbara Streisand records. The town of Greenleaf becomes the scene of a media feeding frenzy, lead by reporter Peter Malloy (Tom Selleck). Malloy is an un- scrupulous, aggressive reporter, bent on getting Beckett to speak the truth. Kevin Kline gives an excellent performance as Howard Barrett wrestling the issue of whether or not he is gay. It is his most hilari- ous performance since A Fish Called Wanda. Torn Selleck also puts in a great effort as the ruth- less reporter, Peter Malloy. Selleck seems to !lave fun portraying the type of news hounds who often pester stars in real life. In and Out is a comedy about someone being forced Ol!lt of the closet. Director Frank Oz and writer Paul Rudnick take the sub- ject of \outing\ and present it in an amusing manner. Unlike the movie Philadelphia, which tack- led the issue of how society deals with homosexuality, In and Out is not a film about issues. The ques- tions and situations are the same in both movies, but In and Out presents these as a comic misun- derstanding. It can be most lik- ened to last summer's hit movie, The Bird Cage. This Week at the Reamer My Best Friend's Wedding Rating: Missed It. Julia Roberts attempts to keep her best friend from getting married because she still loves him. Poetry at Kappa Alpha by Marius Calin Contributillg Writer Friday night, between 9 PM and II :30 PM, Kappa Alpha was home to a congregation of artists. Whether or not they performed their own creations, each pre- formed with a passion as if it w~re his or her own. The performances ranged from guitar solos to poetry to a short skit (conceived minutes before the per- formance) and a short story read- ing. The wide array of talents dis- played kept the mood swinging, from melancholy poems about love lost, to a beautiful rendition of Paul Simon's \The Boxer,\ a comic interpretation on the mean- ing of life in a dialogue, and the juggling offluorescen t balls in the dark. Kappa Alpha, a coed literary so- ciety located in the gray house be- tween the tennis couJis and Wells House, created a comfortable en- vironment for the performers. The event took place in its living room, lit by candles and a \School of As- trology\ sign. All who wished to perform were asked to sign a sheet. As an artist finished, someone else would be randomly called. The stage, a po- dium, was surrounded by an audi- ence sitting on chairs, sofas, and the floor. The audience was made of the artists who would perform lakr or who had already per- formed. Its warm response encour- aged those shy and insecure to go up to the podium and share. The idea and the results ofKA 's event were noteworthy. The light mood encouraged the performers to fc.::e l at ease, knowing that their work would not be mocked. The artists felt accepted, and the com- mentary of those in attendance was genuine. Coffee House Sucessful by Gina LaSorsa Contributing Writer Last Tuesday marked the first night of the 1997 Coffee House year. The night provedto be a big success. By 8:30 PM, a .relatively large group had f<Jrmed, and people were still continuing to fill the room. Everyone sat patiently for the first performer to begin. The freshmen lounged on the couches, while the Coffee House \regulars\ drank their C<Jffee and conversed with one another. The evening began with some guitar music featuring Frank Barbarino '98. PhillipCho '00 and Marius Calin '00 read poetry, and Matt Aronowitz '00 played his guitar as well. At one point, Barnaby Frumess '01 to()k Matt's guitar and unexpectedly started to play for the group. Some of the highlights of the evening include sophomore Michelle Tardiffs sax solo, accompanied by sophomore Hillary London's '00 a capella in- troduction (which, bytheway, de- manded an encore performance). At the end of the night, an ex- change student from Britain sang while playing his guitar. He would not reveal his name, but the audi- ence insisted he play some more when he tried to stop. The night was indeed a huge suc- cess. \I was very pleased with the turnout and the hospital.ity of tht! audience towards the artists,\ says Marius Calin '00. Tuesday night was definitely a preview of some great things to come frorn the Cof- fee House:!. Everyone seemed to truly enjoy the entertainment. A general feeling of relaxation filled the room, which was a great relief after a long and stressful day. All of the performances were great as well. Some of those '\Vho per- formed did not, in fact, expect to be performing and took advantage of the open mic. COME INTO MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! ~henectady- 1041 State Street- 382-5776 I OCESSNI : REPRMS : 8x1 0 : CLUB : IReceive 50% oft'lhe np!ar~ L' • 20 . ~ Limil3 Sli.IO cnlargemCDts.~ Receive SS.OO offwiiCD I 1 I price ofproceuiDJ ud ~t _ ltudard atze From your 3Smm color you pu.rchue a club I 11 pmtiDa color pri.Dt film. I repnata .. From Y~ JSmm I ceaative. I membmhip! Must preual I i I color Delltive. I I . · s 00 ff. 1 _· 1 ,._.. s. ,... St•\'\' * ,.._ .ay. I I r.,.,. c...,.. .. , • wwailttsk., u I coapoa to ncerve S. e> • 1 ......... 'lw)c NcM ........ ., I I Not vaW.,... *' ,..,. .• ~ Mt· Not .-.1114 \** odwt coupons, or oft'm I ~ • tllrta Mt ,......_ a. LiM., Jl'f ,..,..,.. NC14 q,Jid trilb I I ~==-~I a. .. ....,.,...twiOt4c..-ptKtl •••*mrccn~IO%~,nc:el I *'~oroffm. I fl!l-l!!!! ,_,.. . .,.,.,. M'...L'!!! - • I I NKJtUI'IIDI¥1 I MUTOI'HDJtl I MOTOIWOitl I MUTOI'HDJO ·-----------------~---------------------· ! I l 'I !·: '·' ~ 1 I

Arts &.Entertainment . CClp· U:nnwroirn6is • September 25 1 1997 • Page 19 Here Lies Henry Reviewed! by Maura Wittbold Contributing Writer this past weekend, Henry Tom Gallery told us, \The more of an optimist one is, the more of a liilr one must become.\ Perhaps this is true. Henry would know, since he is both an optimist and a self-con~ fessed liar, or so he claims. Henry Gallery visited the Ynlman The- ater on September 19th and 20tb to share a little bit about himself with those willing to listen. He began cautiously. The entire theater was enveloped in darkness except for the delicate orange glow cast upon Henry's face and clasped hands. Music tinkled lightly in the background, gradually increasing in intensity and volume until: the theater reverberated in its pow'(lr. The audience's focus on Henry Tom Gallery heightened in an eery anticipation. Suddenly the music stopped, and there stood Henry, well-dressed in a beige suit and a blue shirt, surrounded by a rect- angle of light. Timidly, he began, slowly un- foldi~:tghislifetothe audience: his childhood, his family, his homo- sexuality, his fears, his lack of hope, and his lies. He claimed that there are eight types of lies: tbe \just kidding lie,\ the \white lie,'\ the \lie lie,\ the \excuse tile \pathological lie,\ the \pro- fessional lie,\ the \survival lie\ and the . \universal lie, also known as time.\ He claimed that time is a lie, for it is in- evitable that we all must die. He told us that he knew us, that we are all very much alike. For life, as he ex- Here Lies Henry comes to the Ylll#lltllt Theater. (Dave Mag11erdi_chian/The Concordiensis) plained it, is the same never-end• again. the· undivided attention of an en- ing cycle for all of us, beginning Daniel Maclvor,.. under the di- tire audience for 75 minutes is with the passage through a dark rection ofDaniel Ilrooks(a dada truly a sign of great talent. 1 ap- tunnel into bright light--birth. kamera production), gave a truly plaud his work, for he questioned Each of us are then met with remarkable perfonnance. He cap- life and death, what we believe and similar experiences in some form tured the audience's full attention choose not to believe. He forced oranother: the first day of school, from the first fai11tgi()W oforange the audience to think on a more getting a pet turtl.e or gerbil that light and whisper of music. profound level while simulta- dies or runs away, getting excited Daniel's perf()l111anc::e was not only neously making us laugh about the about Christmas, those \two awk- entertaining, butrernarkably intel- things that make us happy, scared, ward years of puberty spent ob- ligentas welL a11g;ry, intimidated, hopeful, sessing over James Taylor,\ your Ron Foley MacD<Jnald of the lo11ely, helpless. He made us think first kiss, high-school, college for Sunday Daily Ne'Wsstated, \Here about the things that make us all some of us, love, marriage, work, Lies Henry is a. ;prof()und media- lie. parenthood,. and somewhere down tion perceptiono11 wltat we choose S() was Henry Tom Gallery truly the road, death. Death, the last part to believe ... it is also very, very an optimist, a homosexual, an ar- ofthe cycle, is the passage through funny.\ sonist, a dancer, a rugby star? Was a dark tunnel into bright light, once The ability of on..e man .to hold He11ry truly a liar? The Seagull Auditions by Rebecca Thyresson Staff Writer This past week, the theater de- partment held auditions for the department's fall pJ::ty, The Seagull. Each interested student · had to come prepared with a minute of memorized material to perform on either Monday or Tuesday night. Students called back were infonned on Wednes- day afternoon, and they were asked to return in the evening for a second audition. After hours of consideration, the twelve cast members for The Seagull were fi- nalized and posted Thursday, Sep- tember 18th. Cast members include Amy Rilling as Nina, Doug Schneider as Treplev, Fred Ulrich as Sorin, Ari Gottlieb as Trigorin, Stacey Caplin as Arkadina, Dana Murphy as Polina, Carey Miller as Dorn, Kim Rohback as Masha, Deric Herrington as Medvedenko, David Martin as Yakov, Matt Lilley as Shamrayev, and Maura Wittbold as the Maid. The Seagull was chosen by the- ater director Bill Finlay, but will be directed by the newest member of the theater department staff, vis- ---------------------~---,--========,..._=,.,.....-==----.---.-~======:-1 iting Professor Sarah Chazen. Cocktails & Thespians by Lori Greene A & EEditor If asked what kinds of events Mountebanks might be sponsor- ing, obvious answers might be fl. night of scenes or a one-act play> but what about a \Night of Cock- tails?\ Last week, Mountebanks announced their plans to produce a \Night of Cocktails,\ featuring; scenes from T.S.Elliot'sA Cocktail Party, directed by sophomore Jen Roberts. Roberts explains the scene as a slapstick comedy about adult relationships gone sour, while at a cocktail party. \The Cocktail Party\ has an eight-person cast comprised of Mountebanks .and. other students. Set for October 17th and 18th, the \Night of Cocktails\ will includt} several one-act plays directed and perfonned by students. Mounte, banks is encouraging all students interested in performing or direct- ing for this program to contact Mountebanks co~moderator Sara Freidman. Open auditions were held on Wednesday for \A Cocktail Party/ but there are still many spots for performers and directors. Mounte· banks is constantly seeking new talent from any source. Anyone interested in the technical side of the program should contact Moun- tebanks technical liaison, Brian Jaekers .. Mountebanks is also seeking perfonners for either ofthe.two late- night cabarets scheduled to follow the Friday night perfQrmances of the theater department's \The Seagull.\ Any student with a wacky, zany, or original talent, or anyone who just likes to be on stage is encouraged to contact Sara Freidman or to show up to a Moun- tebanks meeting, Thursdays at 5:30PM in the Yulman theater green room. All and any acts are wel- come. Mountebanks, the oldest stu- · dent-run theater group in the coun- · try, needs your talent, creativity, and hands! Come to a meeting and show us what you've got! Even if you've never been involved in the- ater before, the Mountebanks ex- ecutive board is determined to get you psyched about any and. all as- pects of theater at Union. If you have any questions, feel fi·ee to call Alex Beckers or Emily Schwartz (Mountebanks co-mod- with any · SOME PEOPLE CALl YOUR NEED FOR STIMUlATION OVER THE TOP. WE CALL lT YOUR TICKET TO THE lOP. Imagine dcvelt1ping all your talents- wltile doing ·the same for a. multi·llillion dollar busiJiess. Or having the autoBCJJDY to use your head to make top-level decisions, while lmpactlmg bottom-line profiul>tllty. WheR do you go to have it all? Enterprise Rent·A.Car has mtry·level business clnelopment opportunitit:$ that give y.o11 the frtedom to nuke critical ded.sioois. Join. us and have handHll ,f£1Y'()lvement in every aspect of business management· from sales and marl«t:illg to administration and sraffd~e:l()pment. This growth opportunity ofrm a competitill'e <()Jnpensation and benefits package. Use Your Head. join Euterprise. VISIT Vr'fl1l A REPRESENTATlVE \''iO WILL BE ON CAMPUS .AirnEJOB FAIR ON THWDAY, SEPTEMBER 2Sm For more !nbrmation, please c:all toU-fm: 1-888-WWW-E!tAC Visit our web site at: 'WltW.erac.com We ..-e 811 equal opportuii!ty tmpioyer. Chazen is extremely excited about directing the opening show of Union's season. Chazen recently earned her masters degree in The- ater Arts from Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsyl- . vania. Ms. Chazen worked as an Equity actress for 12 years, her experience includes assisting in the direction of various soap operas and other television programs. On Thursday evening, the cast had its first official rehearsal. Since not everyone had thoroughly read the play at that time, a com- plete read-through took place. This allows the actors to become accustomed to their characters and to the rhythm of the dialogue. The cast became en nthused when they realized the underlying comedy created between characters after reading the lines. The Seagull, by Anton Chekhov, is a four-act comedy set during the late 1800's. Therearetwothemes in the heart ofthe play: I) theater and romance, and 2) art and na- ture. Since each character has a strong opinion for or against the above themes, the contrasts be- tween the two allow for great comic relief throughout The Seagull. Other plays written by Anton Chekhov include lvanhov, Three Sisters, Uncle Vanya, and The Cherry Orchard. The entire campus community has an opportunity to view The Seagull during its eight nights, beginning October 29th. The Fri- day night performances will be fol- lowed immediately by a late-night cabaret, in the Yulman Theater lobby, hosted by Mountebanks. Stay tuned for detailed times in the future, but keep your calendar open to come and support the tal- ent ofUnion · s theater department. This is one show you won't want 1 lO mtss! .-

i j ' ' ·Arts & Entertainment. · · · . · . . · . · . · ·., _. · . · · .· · ... Whd!I~ntctn·.!limsis • .Sept~mber. 25·, 19f)7 ~<Pige··t ~( ' . . ' . ' ' . . . ' . . . . . . . ' . . •. ' . ' . v' Here Lies Henry Reviewed! by Maura Wittbold Contributing Writer This past weekend, Henry Tom Gallery told us, \The more of an optimist one is, the more of a liar one must become.\ Perhaps this is true. Henry would know, since he is both an optimist and a self-con- fessed liar, or so he claims. Henry Gallery visited the Yulman The- ater on September I 9th and 20th to share a little bit about himself with those willing to listen. He began cautiously. The entire theater was enveloped in darkness except for the delicate orange glow cast upon Henry's face and clasped hands. Music tinkled lightly in the background, gradually increasing in intensity and volume until the theater reverberated in its power. The audience's focus on Henry Tom Gallery heightened in an eery anticipation. Suddenly the music stopped, and there stood Henry, well-dressed in a beige suit and a blue shirt, surrounded by a rect- angle of light. Timidly, he began, slowly un- folding his life to the audience: his childhood, his family, his homo- sexuality, his fears, his lack of hope, and his lies. He claimed that there are eight types of lies: the \just kidding lie,\ the \white lie,\ the \lie lie,\ the \excuse the \pathological lie,\ the \pro- fessional lie,\ the \survival lie\ aAd the ''universal lie, also known as time.\ He claimed that time is a lie. for it is in- evitable that we all must die. He told us that he knew us, that we are all very much alike. For life, as he ex- Here Lies Henry comes to the l'ulman Theater. (Dave Maguerdichitm I The Concordiensis) plained it, is the same never-end- again. the undivi<led attention of an en- ing cycle for all of us, beginning Daniel Maclvor, under the di- tire audie11ce for 75 minutes is with the passage through a dark rection of Daniel Brooks (ada da truly a sign of great talent. I ap- tunnel into bright light--birth. kamera production), gave a truly plaud his work, for he questioned Each of us are then met with remarkable performance. He cap- life aad death, what we believe and similar experiences in some form tured the audience's full attention choose not to believe. He forced or another: the first day of school, from the first faint glow of orange the audience to think on a more getting a pet turtle or gerbil that light and whisper of music. profound level while simulta- dies or runs away, getting excited Daniel's performance was not only neously making us laugh about the about Christmas, those \two awk- entertaining, but remarkably intel- things. that make us happy, scared, ward years of puberty spent ob- ligent as well. angry, intimidated, hopeful, sessing over James Taylor,\ your Ron Foley MacDonald of the lonely, helpless. He made us think first kiss, high-school, college for Sunday Daily News stated, \'Here about the things that make us all some ofus, love, marriage, work, Lies Henry is a profound media- lie. parenthood, and somewhere down tion perception on what we choose So was Henry Tom Gallery truly the road, death. Death, the last part to believe ... it is also very, very an optimist, a homosexual, an ar- ofthe cycle, is the passage through funny.\ sonist, adancer, a rugby star? Was a dark tunnel into bright light, once The ability of one man to hold Henry truly a liar? The Seagull Auditions by Rebecca Thyresson Staff Writer -----------------· -. This past week. the theater Lk- partment held auditions fur the department's fall pl:ry. Thl' St>agull. Each interested ~tuucnt had to come prepared \\ 1th a minute of memori.ted lll<llen.tl to perform lll1 either Monda\ ur TucsJa) night. StuJenh ulkJ back wcre in fixmed on \\'eJne'- day afternoon, and the) \\ere asked to return in the e'<ening. for a second audition. After hour~ uf consideration, the tv.:elvc ca~t members for The Seugu/1 were fi- nalized and posted Thursday, Sep- tember 18'h. Cast members include Am) Rilling as Nina, Doug Schneider as Treplev, Fred Ulrich as Sorin, Ari Gottlieb as Trigorin, Stacey Caplin as Arkadina, Dana Murphy as Polina, Carey Miller as Dorn, Kim Rohback as Masha, Deric Herrington as Medvedenko, David Martin as Yakov, Matt Lilley as Shamrayev, and Maura Wittbold as the Maid. The Seagull was chosen by tht:- ater director Bill Finla), but \\ill be directed by the newest member of the theater depattment staff, vis- --------------------------.,-------------------------------1 iting Professor Sarah Chazen. Cocktails & Thespians by Lori Greene A & E Editor If asked what kinds of events Mountebanks might be sponsor- ing, obvious an<>wers might be a night of scenes or a one-act play, but what about a \Night of Cock- tails?\ Last week, Mountebanks announced their plans to produce a \Night of Cocktails,\ featuring scenes from T.S.EIIiot's .4 Cocktail Party, directed by sophomore Jen Roberts. Roberts explains the scene as a slapstick comedy about adult relationships gone sour, while at a cocktail party. \The Cocktail Party\ has an eight-person cast comprised of Mountebanks and other students. Set for October J7rh and l8 1 1t, the '\Night of Cocktails\ will inc Jude several one-act plays directed and performed by students. Mounte- banks is encouraging all students ir1fl'rt'~kd in 1wrfnnn ing l'f dirc(i- ing for this program to contact Mountebanks co-moderator Sara Freidman. Open auditions were held on Wednesday for\A Cocktail Party,\ but there are still many spots for performers and directors. Mounte- banks is constantly seeking new talent from any source. Anyone interested in the technical side of the program should contact Moun- I tebanks technical liaison, Brian 1 Jaekers. Mountebanks is also seeking performers for either ofthe t\vo late- night cabarets scheduled to follow the Friday night performances of the theater department's \The Seagull.\ Any student with a wacky, zany, or original talent, or anyone who just likes to be on stage is encourage:! to contact Sara Freidman or to show up to a Moun- tebanks meeting, Thursdays at 5:30PM in the Yulman theater green room. All and any acts are wel- come. Mountebanks, the oldest stu- dent-run theater group in the coun- try, needs your talent, creativity, and hands! Come to a meeting and show us what you've got! Even if you've never been involved in the- I ;1kr b~for~. the \tuuut~:b.mL t.:.\.· ecutive board is determined to get you psyched about any and all as- pects of theater at Union, If you have any questions, feel free to call Alex Beckers or Emily Schwartz (Mountebanks co-mod- erators) with any questions. SOME PEOPLE CALL YOUR NEED FOR STIMUlATION OVER THE WP. WE CALL IT YOUR TICKET TO THE TOP. Imagine developing all your talents • while doing the same for a multi-billion dollar hllsi11ess. Or having the autonomy to use yo11r head to make te>p-levtl decisions, while impacting bottom-line profitability. Where do you go to have it all? Enterprise Rent·A.Car lias entry-level business development opportunities that give you the freedom to make critical decisions. join liS and have hands-on involvement in every aspect of business management· from sales and marketing to adminisl.nltion and staff developme~~t. This growth opportunity offers a competitive compensation and benefits p2dage. Use Yov Head. joln Ent~frPrl.se. VISIT WlTH A REPRESENlA l1VE WHlO WtlL BE ON CAMPUS AT THE JOB fA.IR ON THtJRSDA\', SEP'IEMBER 25TH. Fo~\ more il'lformstion, [)lease e2Jl toll-fret: l-8$-Vl/'WVV-ERAC Visit om we!lJ 5ik at: MVW.ernr:.corn We ~Yt llt• _,JJI.l ('\·f•i~ .. )n\.r.tt) rr~p;o~~r 1'. I Chazen is extremely excited about directing thl.' opening '-hln\ llr Union's season. Chazen recently earned her masters degree in The- / ater Arts from Carnegie 1\fellon I University in Pittsburgh, PL'IIIJ:>) f. I v~n ia. ~ 1s. Chazen \\ orkcJ .1::. Jll Equity actress fur I~ ) ears, her I experience includes <Jssisting in thr: direction of \ arious soap opcr Js I and other television programs. I On Thursday evening. the cast j had its first official rehearsal. Since not everyone had thoroughly read the play at that time. a com- plete read-through took place. This allows the actors to become accustomed to their characters and to the rhythm of the dialogue. The cast became en nth used when they realized the underlying comedy created between characters after reading the lines. The Seagull, by Anton Chekhov, is a four-act comedy set during the late 1800's. There are two themes in the heart of the play: 1) theater and romance, and 2) art and na- l tun:.. Since. cad_1 chc~rdcter Ita~ d I ~~l~ uuc; Ui-JliLhJli ivl ,;i ...lbLllil..lL Lia~ above themes, the contrasb be- tween the two allow for great . comic relief throul!,hout The ' ~ I Sr:a~u/l. Other plays written b~ j Anton Chekhov include hunhur. I Three ,\- l 'nt\!e I <ltl\ cl. anJ I • The Cherry Ordi<ml. I 1'1 . . i 1e enttre campu~ comnHJillt:- : ha\ an opportunit~ tn \ JL'\\ /h· l ' S,·,Iy:ull dunn)! it' t'l~ht n ·~llh. ' beg.innint! < 1rt!,bLT .\tl\ ! h,· ! I'- d;t~ llt;,!ht p,·rh'rllLIIkl'\ ,, :'~ ''· ·, •'- '''\''cl in1n;, ,Jr.~~,l\ h\ ·' :,,, .: •:·.':·: i ~.,,d,;trd. m the Yult'l If• r;,, 11,: I [,,J>b\- llthlt'd '': \1!lll'::,··· :! ;, . ~l .. l) tUJ',c,: hlJ J~·Lil::~·-.: 1 :· :· .. ·, 1 \..' I.!! i ; . '' '· .. ! ·\. ' ' !_ :J:. ' I' ' . ~ . ' .

'. '··' J>age 20 • September 25,1997 • W\ltc QJ:mtcoroi~us'is , · , Sports . ~ . ' Water Polo: A Club Team With An Attitude Even Without Horses, Union's Water Polo Team Rides Onward by Adam Levithan ContTibuting Writer \How de you get the horses into the water?\ a wise ass asks when I tell him I'm going to a water polo tournament. \You are the horse\ is the only answer I can think of. Picture hockey, basketball, soccer and swimming together, and tl:1e tactics and intens-ity of water polo become clear. Water polo Ius six field players and a goalie. The offense is set in a semi- circle formation with two corners, two wings, a player up top, who all surround the sixth player, called the hole man. The ball is given to the hole man to either shoot or for him/her to pass to a player who is open. In past years the water polo team has been dominated by swimmers who had experienced water polo in high school and wanted to continue through college. Today's team is made up of eleven die bards, only_ a few of which are swimmers, who practice and play to have fun and win. Led by captains, and seniors, Matt Glogowski and Mark Anderson and coached by Keith Murray, the new assistant swimming coach, the team was nothing but proud as theit skills noticeably improved. All in attendance complimented the spirited. play, hard determination and improvement that all Union players exhibited. On Saturday night at seven, first timers Dan Brennan, Mike Rixinan (both seniors) and Jody Frampton (freshwoman) quickly lost their first game jitters and helped the team to a close match of 11-13 against a hard Columbia team. Union was quickly outscored 9-- 2 in their first two periods of the tournamentgame. However, in the third .period they dramatically recovered and scored five goals to Columbia: s three. To seal this great improvement Union scored four more goals &nd the defense, led by goalie Adam Levithan (senior), shut out Columbia's scoring attempts. Matt Glogowski scored six, Mark Anderson scored four and Bill Flick (soph()more) scored one goal. The team lcoked forward to a long three game Sunday. The first game, against the powerbouse Army, was an eye opener, at nine in the morning. Here the team practiced defensive and some offensive tactics. Rob Kir:kman, Jim Dewall (both sophomores), Angela Farina Gunior) and Joel Glogowski{ senior) practiced their skills with the other players. After an hour rest the team set their sights on beating R.PJ .. With improvement in both offense and defense the team resulted ill a 13- 17loss. The highLight of the tournament for Union was their last ,game against Hartwick. Botlt teams were tired from two earlier games. With undeniable spirit andlleart Union set its sights on beating Hartwick. Through fierce dett:rmination and scoring by Keith Mllrray, Mark Anderson, Bill Flick., and Matt Glogowski the team a(:cumulated twelve goals on sixteen attempts. The Union defense anticipated Hartwick's attemptsa11d held them to njne goals on eig.Jtteen attempts. Union's victory surpassed all fatigue as the team and observers celebrated. The water polo team is determined to have ,fun and be the best it can be. They work hard four times a week and want you to join and have fun too. ~e~soL2a~------------- Cindy- Happy 90th Birthday! Love, \Ravishing\ Rick Rude FR- Great job on Saturday! We look forward to the rest of the season. By the way, Ithaca lost! Your broadcast part- ners Danny Bah- Sorry for the harsh treatment! We all love you! The Concordy Staff MT-You did not know me, but I knew you! I'm hurt! Gonzo ~e To the Brothers of Chi Psi- Thanks for your hospi- tality Saturday n~ght. Let's do it again soon. The S'isters of Gamma Phi Beta To Jan- I had a great time at dinner! Love, Liza PS- I made you, and now you own me! The Chicken Lover PJ- 1 miss you! Love and ITB, Schwartz Cli·fton Clifton Pa,rk, To the Brothers ofFiji- We had a groovy, far- out time Friday night! Thanks! The Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta Charles M.- Happy (Belated) 23rd Birthday! F;om, The Oldest Senior@ Union PJ- 1 miss you! Love and ITB, Schwartz PJ and Shannon- We miss you, hope you are having a wonderful time in France. Love and ITB, the Sisters ofDelta Gamma Great running, Union X-C. Keep.it up! Lothar- I forgot to feed the kitten! I feel so bad! DQandGS BS- I love and sweat y()u! SP DM-Celts/Cavs~ tickets! Thanks! Der- rick will win.NBA Rookie ofthe Year! Mark my words! -DQ Leone- Thanks for the help laying out the \Q-Ball\ and the rest of the sports section! The Diamond-Cutter and Enus Carmine- Thanks for eve!ything. You are the best! lilian Sully & Queen- If I hear·\diamond cut\ again, I will have to kill you both.· Tank PJ- 1 miss you ~ore! Just kidding, I don't want to make Schwartz mad. :) But copy-editing is a drag (and a huge job) without you! Hope you are having an amazing time. · Love, Amy . ···c·-·.-._.,..____ . . .. ' .... ~ ea .. ea ... or I....Ps! e -t4&) 37-3-90:89

. ' ~ ' Sports _ · . Q:J!r Qm~wroirusis • Scptem ber 25, 1997 • P·Hge 21 Men's Soccer Faces Adversity After Stellar Week A Win and a·Tie Bring Soccer Team Closer to th~ .500 Mark by David Weiner Contributing Writer The performance put forth by the men's soccer team last week at the Union Invitational is what rnany hoped might be a foreshad· owing ofthe season. Not only did theteam dominate their opponents in capturing the Invitational title, but they also executed exactly what Coach Guinn had empha- sized as his philosophy to perfec- tion. Unfortunately, that perfec- tion was not disp'layed in this week's contests, as the team es- caped Wednesday's game with a tie against Hamilton, but was then e~ily defeatedJ-0 by Hobart Continuing on their brief home stand, Union hosted Hamilton Col- lege this past Wednesday. Al- though Union was coming off their strong performance the previous weekend, it was clear that through- out the entire first half, Hamilton was the more dominant team. They beat Union players to the ball, earned more scoring oppor- tunities, and really out-hustled the Union squad. The result of this hustle, much to Union's dismay, was a one-to-nothing Hamilton ad- vantage. Between halves, Coach Guinn sat his men down and told them that to win a game takes a collective effort. A team is only as good as it's weakest link, and if everyone does not hustle, then the team cannot win. A team can't win if it is out- worked. · This talk woke up the stagnant team, and the idea of preserving their winning season gave Union the incentive they needed to fight back. During the entire second half, Union dominated the field. They pooled their talents and took coach Guinn's advice in using a collec- tive effort to net the tying goall:!lld push the game to ~vertim~. Al- though neither team was able to punch in the winning goal, Union clearly outplayed what proved to be a weaker Hamilton team. This tie is not what Union was looking for when they entered the game, but after seeing the strong possi- bility oflosing, they were quite sat- isfied with the outcome. Their ability to rebound from poor play gave the team confidence going iato their first road trip at Hobart. Controversial Beginning to Week Starts Tennis Off On Wrong Foot by Brian Terlinsky well when I wastoldthernatch was 3), (8-1), respectively. to be called,\ she said. To finish off the weekend, Contributing Writer Although all matches were not Union traveled to St. Lawrence Coming off a tough loss against complete, Hamilton had more University on Saturday Sept 20, Vassar on Sept. 13, the Union matches won bythetimeofficials whereunfavorableweathercondi- Women' s tennis team experienced made the call, allowing them the tions forced match-play to be held an<Jther week of demanding win. Coach Bill Scanlon felt an- indoors. In a close and competi,. matches. Traveling all across Up- noyed by the late start of his top tive match, St. Lawrence came out State New York, Union began seeded players. \It was very frus- on top, winning, 4-5 in matches. their week with a lose to Freshman Becky Rubin de- Hamilton, but splitting their feated her singles match weekend double-header, challenger easily in straight beating Clarkson while fall- sets, (6-3,6-3). \I went out ing to St. Lawrence in a close there and gave a 100 per- and difficult match. Their cent,\ Rubin said. \Even record stands at two and though we lost, I feel as a three. team we played well and Union kicked off their showed we have the ability long week traveling to to beat this team if we face Hamilton College on them again,\ Rubin added. Wednesday Sept. 17, and The other singles winner losing 2-5 in matches. was Senior Captain Dawn Winning their singles Tessier, who defeated her ma1ches for Union were freshmen trating and unfair, traveling all that challenger (6-4,6-1 ), in a very well fourth seed Annette Orajny ( 6- way, and not being able to finish played match. Top seed Cassie 2,4-6,6-3) and freshmen fifth seed our matches,\ S{;anlon said. Lawton unfortunately fell to her Becky Rubin in straight sets, (6- Scanlon also added that· he may opponent (7-6, 6-4), and felt that 3,6-3). On the other hand, third ask for a review ofthe unusual cir- she played a mediocre match. \I . seed junior Jennifer DeLucca was cumstance that occurred.. played all right. But I wished I defeated (2-6,2-6 ) and sixth seed On Friday Sept. 19, Union could have won because it was senior Dawn Tessier fell ( 4-6,5-7 faced Clarkson at Clarkson in very Senior Dawn Tessier's last time ), in straight sets. The doubles windy weather conditions. This ever playing against St. team of Lawton-DeLucca, time it was all Union, and it Lawrence,\ Lawton said. St. Uiberall-Rogers, and Grajny- showed as they defeated Clarkson Lawrence clearly commanded the Rubin were all defeated by 9-0 in matches. All singles and singles matches, winning four of Hamilton's doubles teams, (8-4), doubles matches were dominated six, however Union won two out (8-3), (9-8), respectively. by Union, including top seeds of the three doubles matches A bit of a controversy occurred Cassie Lawton, who breezed by played. In the end, St. Lawrence After travelling three hours to meet their opponents, the team was looking for· a strong start and a consistent game fro.m their entire team. Contrary to what they were looking for, Union came out com- pletely flat and out of .sync. Through the en- tire game, the whole team was not mentally prepared to play. This . was the team's fist road trip, and as Coach Guinn put it, \There are no excuses. We just did not play well at all.\ H9bart took complete . advantage of Union's poor play as they some- what easily netted three goals, thus giving the Dutchmen their first loss ofthis season. Although Union was unable to add to the win column and overall had a disappointing week, there were a few bright spots for this young team. Freshmen David Epstein and Jason Terry have been solid additions to the team, as they have come offthe bench to play a variety of positions and to help givetheteam a boost. Senior Chris Estefani, although missing pre- season due to injury, has also come off the bench to play very well in ten 15-minute spurts. With this weeks' results bring- ing the team's record to two wins, one loss, and one tie, their previ- ous ranking of seventh in the re- gion will now vanish, and their high aspirations have dwindled quite a bit. However, the good news for this squad is that the sea- son is still young, and they play every team that is ahead of them in the league and in the region. Thus, although this week was a dis&.ppointment, their future is still very much in their own hands. They merely have to get their acts together and grab some wins to back in the hunt for both ECAC and NCAA tournament births. Bethany Carlle£lge In-line slwter. Y.ball slugger. Dnmk driving victim. ]anumy 18, 1994 Cheraw, SC If you don't stop someone from driving drunk, who will? Do whatever it takes. FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK. when top seed sophomore Cassie her opponent (6-1,6-\1) and Jodi came out on top, winning 5-4 in · 0 . Lawton and second seed sopho- Uiberall, who smoothly won (6- total matches. IJ us Depn\\\\'tDf~ more Jodi Uiberall began their 1,6-1). Other scores include Jen Because there is no mid-week·, • t, 1 , • • t • t t e t t t t t • t t • t t • t •, 1 t t t t • e matches after 4:00pm and were DeLucca,CourtneyRogers,Becky match, this will give time for the . : ~fAKJ~ GREAT CHRISTMAS $IN CT.! •' umtble to finish their matches due Rubin and Dawn Tessier, all eas- team to sharpen up any weak- ., t9darkness. UiberaUwasveryup- ilywining,(6-1,6-0),(6~l,6-0),(6- nesses. \Wewillcontinuetowork i IF YOu CAN BEGIN WORK THE FJRST\'r'EEK ' set when she was told the match 1,6-0), (6-1,6-l), respectively. on volleying, which hurt us against • OF DEC. OR EAR. LJER. AWARD WINNING • • was to be cal1ed. \Even though I Doubles teams of Lawton- St. Lawrence,\ Scanlon said. t , · lost the first set, I was winning in DeLucca, Rogers-Jeffords, and Union will face Hartwick this • RETAIL SHOP JN NEW CANAAN CT IS NO\¥ 1 the second set and =I w=as==p=la~yi=ng=R=u=b=in=-T=e=ss,....,ie=r a=ll=w=o=n,=(=8·=l)=, =(8=- =weekendat home. . : ACCEI)TJNG XMAS SALES H£LP APPLICA.. : t • TlONS. $8/HR,40 HR \VEEKP PLEASE CALL • : RAY FOR MO·RE INFO @ PENNYWEIGHTS : ' t JE\VELRV GIYf STORE. (Z03) 966· 7739 • • : SECURE YOUR JOB TODAY : .~ .... ,, ...•..•.••••...............

X-C WoDlen Hit Stride At Williams by Jason Everett Casey commented that, \The leader senior Kelly Jamieson, Staff Writer 'W()rnen 's runner of the· week is Jamieson finished eighteenth in . [definitely] Jess. For her to finish 22:08. The Union women's cross- ~ixth in that field is pretty Therewereseveralothernotable , country team competed in the remarkable, [and] if she ran in the performances. for the female , WiUiarns Invitational this past ''A\ race, still would have fared harriers. Katie MacDowelhhowed . Saturday on Williams, s<:enic well.\ that she is rounding into form with challenging course. The W()men Next in for Union was talented another solid performance. competed in the Purple \B\ race~ freshman Amy Slabich who .ted Rounding out the top·seven for the which they took second place in the squad last week in its season women were· Charity last year. This year they tied for debut. Slabich, ran with along McManaman 53rd, Molly Hood third place and would ha'Ve r------------------------..., 63rd, who had a noteworthy won the tie if the tie-brealing \F [J G • ] t performance after a rules were in effect.. The : Or . eSS •. OVela . O disappointing race last week, women raced 5K (3.1 miles) finish sixth in and AlisonCiolino72nd. Not over the dirt trails and grave'ly far off the pace was roads. that field is pretty sophomore Maura Culloo in Leading the way for the 76th. Casey said that he was women's squad was jtmi()r remarkable.\ \happy [Molly] has come Jessica Goveia, who was _Head X-C Coach around this week after being competing in only her second [somewhat] tired [last week].\ cross-country race e'Ver. Charlie Casey Thewomen'sresultsare Despite being a newcomer to as follows: 6. Jessica Goveia the distance, Goveia quickly ran Goveia for most of the first two 21 :24; 14. A:mySlabich22:02; 18. · to the front after the starting gun, rn iles until encou.n tering the Kelly Jamieson 22:08; 43. Katie and in deliberate fashion, difficult hill in the last mile of the MacDowell 23: 18; 53. Charity established herself as a runner to race. Despite dropping off the McManaman 23:39; 63. Molly · contend with in the race. Using a brisk pace of the leaders, Slabich Hood 24:07; 72. Allison Ciolino strong finishing kick over th.e last finished in a very respectful22:02, 24:22; 76. Maura Culloo 24:36; IOOOm, Goveia finished strongly good for fourteenth place. Casey 88. Mellissa Magner 25:02; 94. in sixth place in 21:24, which is commented that, \Amy [was] off Irene Kan 25:11; 96. Emily Morse . the faste$t Union wornen'stime in her stride after the mile\ but still 25:16; i26. Alex Podgoiny27:42; more t11an three years ()n this managed to gut out a good race. 137. Jen Roberts 30:25; and 139. course if not longer. Coach Cbarlie Not far behind was perennial team Aimee Marko 31 :03. AlbaiQ\'a Bed . . . ,...,ft. Outdoor Sto.-e 1\VJUatuall\ Loo•in(l for Adventure1 Clillibitlg EcJulp. ' Hiking Boots Sleeping Bags Fleece Clothing ·t Outer-wear, Ca~npiog Equip. Rain...vear Backpacks ~we 'BIP\he NORTH THE:. FACE It COSTA SavaloaJ. wttb pur Valid Sl8d•tiD DOW through Sept 30, 1817 RIC A Study Paradise this Spring The Organi%ation for Tropical Studies in partnership with Duke University offers a field-oriented setneater abroad program in tropical ecology and Latin Ameriecm culture. Students ecsrn 1 6 credit hours in biology, eraviro.nmental science, and Spanish language & culture. Creclit-.$ may be transferred from Duke. • ha-nds-on biology • cultural immersion • field trips e independent proiects • remote field sites • r•••arch • exotic wildlife For IJroch\Jre and application mater:ials, c::oniact OrgcaRizatiara for Tropical Studies, Duke University Box 90633, Durham NC 27708-0633 Tel: (t919) t'SB4-577 A; E-mail: <nao@ac:pub.duke.edu> http://www .ots.duke.edu Application do<tclli111e For 1998 Spring semester is October 15, 1997. Seniors Le·ad Way For Men's X-C by ,Jason Everett Staff Writer undoubtedly hurt the team in team competition.) Goldberg making his season The lone seniors competing for debllt after an early season injury, the Union men's cross-country over<:ame a somewhat lethargic team led the way for the squad this first three miles of the race, to past weekepd at the WiHiams finisll f()rty-eighth in 29:08. Invitational. Although the team G~ltlberg proved that he will be a finished in. a disappointing tenth runner to contend with. finishing place inthe SK (5 miles) race, there stro11gly with a tenacious 5:16 over were some highly encouraging the last mile despite ceaseless pain signs, which should bode well for in bis feet from blisters. On the the team in late ..--~-'-----------.......---~, deliberately · s e a s o n \[The] guys tlds week pace<lout first · competition. I · mile, Coach To ensure obviOUS y went OUt at Charlie Casey . that there a much better pace, comm.ented · would not be that, \[The] an 0 t h e r tbanks to Jay guys this week inappropriate [Goldberg].\ obviuusly quick pace to _Head X-C Ctuu:h went ()Ut at a start the race, mucb. better like last week Charlie Casey pace, 1b.anks to Jay.\ 9/27 Football @ Hobati Men's Soccer 1:00 9/27 @Vassar 12:00 9130 Williams 4:00 Women's Soccer 9/27 @Vassar 12:00 9/29 Utica 4:00 Women's Tennis 9/27 Hartwick 3:30 Field Hockey 9/27 St. Lawrence 11 :00 9/30 Middlebury 4:00 Volleyball 9/27 @ Hamilton · 11 :00 Middlebury 7:00 R()unding out the top fi'Ve for the me11 were Hugh Meyer 99th, in 31: 19: Meyer had a rou.gh week training wise trying to ()Vercome illness but the two week layoff until the next competiti~n should allow him time to regain his pre- season form. Freshman Terry Chang;, l 06th, 31:41 ran impressively in this his first time competing o~ Williams .difficult course. Coach Casey commented that, \Terry had a great day. He was the freshman runner of the day.\ Fifth in for Union was sophomore Kenny Scott who ran a gritty race des-pite becoming overc()me with fatigue in recent days. Scott finished ll3th in 32:24. Ro1111ding out the fini~hers for Union in the varsity r-ace were: 114-. Jon Nieman 32:33; 117. Joe Chan 33:04; and 122. Andy Silverman 35:45. USA Division Ill Pq/l L Mount Union (2-0) 2. Wisconsin-Whitewater (2-0) 3. Simpson (2-0) 4. Rowan (2-0) 5. Wittenberg (2-0') (). Illinois Wesleyan ( 1-0) 7. Wisconsin-LaCrosse (2-0) & • Emory & Henry (2-()) 9. C<>lle.ge ofNew Jersey (2-0) I()_ Washington (MO) (3-0) 11. Albright (2-0) 12. John Carroll (2-0) 13. St. Thomas (2-0) 14. Catholic (2-0} 15. Hardin Simmons (2-0) 16. Trinity (TX) (2--()) l 7. Central ( 1-l ) 18. Methodist (2-0) 19. Union (2-0) 20. Lycoming (2-0) 2 i . Bethel (3-0) 22. DePauw (3-0) 23. Widener (2-0) 24. Hanover (3-0) 25. Susquehanna (3-0)

l ! i i I Sports · · · . · · Qilp~ illmtcmbimsis • September 25,1997 • Page 23 · Showdown Saturday bolstered Florida and Nebraska's chances for a national ,crown while seri- ously hindering the Vo'ls' and the Huskies.' chances for an unde- feated season and a national cham- pionship. It was the same old story once again for Peyton Manning, playing against the national cham- pion Gators at the Swamp. Florida won 3.3-.20 and dominated the en- tire game thanks to a dominating offensive line and. a D-Jine that constantly pressured the best quar- terback in college football and .sure number-one-draft pick in next year's draft. Another key to the game was the interception made by safety Tony George, as the Vols appeared to go in for the tying touchdown in the first quarter. He. ended up returning it 89 yards for a touchdown, which made the score 14-0, and the Gators never looked back. Now Florida is in the driver's seat for another SEC crown and a possible return to the national title game, which will be staged in the Orange Bowl. I, for one, hope that Manning's career will not be remembered for his in- ability to beat Florida in four tries, but for his successes as a student athlete who graduated on time and broke all of the Vols quarterbacking records. The Nebraska Cornhuskers have been overlooked this season as a contender for the national cham- pionship (except by ESPN college football analyst Lee Corso}. Just two years ago, Nebraska was tile most dominating power in college football, winning back to back titles in 1994-1995. They went int.o .one of the toughest stadiums inall of college football in Wasil~ ington as the underdog, and they whipped the Huskies 27-14. Thanks to the great play ofquar- terback Scott Frost, who was booed last week in Lincoln for his poor play. He ran for two touch- downs in the first half, wh icb staked the Huskers to an early and insurmountable 14-0 lead. The dominant offensive line for Ne- braska, which has been a consta11t throughout the nineties, opened gapfng holes for their explosive running game. After their victory,. Nebraska catapulted to the fronhf the national title picture, moving up to the third spot in the AP poH beh-ind Florida and number-one Penn State. One ofthemostunderrated big- time events in the world is taking place this weekend in Valderrama, Spain-the Ryder Cup. This will be the 32nd edition of the biennial competition be· tween golfers from Europe and the United States, and it hegins Friday and ends Sunday with the dramatic singles matches. The U.S. team is talented and young but very inex- perienced, which could hurt their ·. chances of regaining the Cup. Lead by Captain Tom Kite; the team consists ofTiger Woods, Jus- tin Leonard, Davis Love Ill, Tom · Lehman, Fred Couples, Brad Faxon, Mark O'Meara, Phil Mickelson, Jeff Maggert, Lee Janzen, and. Ryder Cup rookies Jim Furyk and Scott Hoch. The U.S. is trying to regain the Cup from the Europeans, who won it by a point in 1995 at Oak Hill. The Ryder Cup is one of the most pres- sure-packed team events in the world; and usually the matches are extremely tight and dramatic. It is something that all sports aficiona- dos should tune into this weekend on NBC, to see if the U.S. can re- gain the Cup from the Europeans. The U.S. Davis Cup team ad- vanced to their 32\d Davis Cup Final by defeating the Australians four matches to one over the week- end in Washington,.D.C. The U.S. was led by Pete Sampras and Michael Chang, the number one and two players in the world. On Friday, Chang rebounded .from his straight set loss to Patrick Rafter in the U.S. Open semifmal by win- ning a hard-fought four set match to give the U.S, an early 1-0 lead. In the second singles match, Pete Sampras easily won against hard- serving Mark Philippoussis in straight sets. The doubles match on Saturday went to the Austra- lians, and the number-one team in the world ofMark Woodforde and Todd Woodbridge, to give their team the necessary lift going into the deckling singles matches on Sunday. Pete Sampras ended any hopes for a dramatic comeback by the Australians by defeating the U.S. ·Open champion Patrick Rafter in four sets. The U.S. Davis Cup team now moves on to face Sweden on November 28-30 to try to ,capture their 32nd Davis Cup Final. The New England Patriots re- mained one of only four unde- feated teams in the NFL along with the l3roncos, the surprising Buc- caneers, and the Jaguars, who played the Steelers this past Mon- day night. After their emotional victory against the Jets last Sun- day night, the Pats attempted to go into their bye week with an unde- feated record. They accomplished that by cruising to a 31-3 win against the lowly Bears, who are 0-4. New England's defense played extremely well, with five sacks, and limited the Bears ane- mic offense to under 200 total yards. Drew Bledsoe threw for over 300 yards and two touch- downs. This is the first time the Patriots have been 4-0 since 1978. Critics will say that New England has played cupcakes so far this season, but that all changes after their bye week, when they play in Denver, in what could be an AFC Championship preview, and then a rematch of last year's Super Bowl againstthe Packers on Mon- day night. For now, Carroll and his Patriots must be feeling pretty sweet going undefeated in their first four games. They now have the ability to get everyone back healthy, including Terry Glenn and Willie McGinnest, two key players on both sides of the ball who have missed games so far in the early season. Football Wins C~ose One .•. (Continued From·Page 24) Field H~ckey Improving little tired. Young kids are going to make some mistakes.\ Unfor- tunately, WPI was able to find its groove :.:nidway through the third quarter as some Union mistakes occurred. WPl took nearly eight minutes offthe clock during its next drive as running back Nick Fluet gained 45 yards in nine carries, includ- ing a fake punt. Boardman passed left to tight end Matt Surette to place WPI's first six points on the scoreboard. Union's offense was ineffective during the next two drives. McKeown threw the ball away for the first time this season with 10:22 remaining in the game; giv- ing Boardman another opportu- nity to make the game closer. From the Union 30-yard line, Boardman found Matt Surrette for the second time, making it a two- touchdown game. Then, Warzala apparently fumbled the football at the WPl 28. After the .game, both sides admitted that the ground ap- parently caused the fumble, but the referees ruled that WPl gained possession. Boardman helped drive his team to the 31, and he found his favorite tight end, Surrette, for his third touchdown of the afternoon. Surrette's 115 yards receiving in the second half gave him 165 for the game, or .more than half of the Engineers' offense (327 yards). With 3:28 remaining, WPI re- covered an on-sides kick that bounced off a Union player's shoulder pad. The Dutchmen, however, were able to stop the Engineers at the Union 40. The defense, including junior line- backer Jim Kochan, made their second crucial stop ofthe day, al- lowing the Dutchmen to run out the clock. Kochan, who injured his ankle on Thursday, said, \I think it's a great win. We stepped up and won another close game.'' Defensive Starter.s Slline Although the score is deceiving, Union's starters. on defense played a great game. Senior linebacker Mark Serio led the team with tell tackles, including seven unassisted tackles. Senior Erik Edson also made a splash as linebacker this week with his fumble recovery and six tackles. Senior Greg Nigro, who started for Kochan, also shined as a linebacker with five solo tackles. . Defensive backs also created havoc on WPI. Attanasio, who scored on a 90-yard kickoff return against St Lawrence, chipped in nine tackles (eight solos) in addi- tion to his interception. FresJ:unan Devon Wimberly had six tackles (five solos) besides his second in· terception ofthe season. Hobart Poses Threat This Saturday, Union faces its toughest challenge this season as the team travels to Geneva, NY to face the Hobart Statesmen. Two years ago, Hobart scored on an SO- yard play in the first half to take an early 7·0lead on the Dutchmen, but Union rallied back to win. Last year, however, Union appeared to be in control ofthe game as fonner running back Shuron Morton broke Union's single-game rush- ing record against Hobart. How- ever, the tenacious Statesmen stayed close and had a chance to beat the Dutchmen at home. How- ever, Union reigned victorious, 24- 22. This year, Hobart has a new quarterback (a Rochester transfer) and many of the same weapons it used last year (including running back Lamark Logan). The States- men were ranked fourth in the · Upstate NY Division UI Poll this week and look to upset the visit- ing Dutchmen. Division Ill Beat While the Dutchmen gained fur- ther national acceptance, they are losing ground locally. Three na- tional Division rii polls show Union gaining during the last week The USA Division HI Foot- ball Poll (seen on this page) shows Union rising from #24 to #19 na- tionally. Don Hansen's Football Gazette Poll also shows a national rise to #14. Finally, the Colum- bus Multimedia Power Ratings Poll showed the Dutchmen rise from # 15 to #7 nationally. Locally, even though the Divi- sion III East Region Poll is not due out until October 6, Union is in a little trouble. After losing first place in the Upstate NY Poll last week to Cortland, Buffalo St. (who beat Washington & Jefferson Sat- urday) is only two points behind the\Dutchmen. Union is one of only fourteen undefeated teams in the East Region, by Buffalo St., which has a loss on the season, may be able to leapfrog the Dutch- men if they sputter again this week. The Union Fighting Dutchmen need a big win, as local pollsters will decide their fate in less than two months. (Cont'd From_ Pag~ 24) tributed the win to \ ... the team- · work and cohesiveness on the field.\ Assistant Coach Melissa Lambardoni commented, \Saturday's game was only a con- tinuation of the development the team had been experiencing. De- fense and offense finally came to- gether. The transition game was excellent.\ On Thursday, September 25, the Dutch women will play at Wil- liams, and then they play at home against St. Lawrence on Saturday, September 27. The victories will hopefully be a prelude of what is to come. Lambardoni foresees a win against Williams, a grass-playing team. \It looks good for the week ahead. Our focus will be on our transition, communication, and moving to the ball.\ Skycliv.ing?l Thanes burg Skydiving 27 Years In Business (6181 896-8140 16 Minutes from CampuslDown Route 7J Open BIYIII Days College Rep Wanted!! ... •· .. ......

Fighting Dutchmen Derail \Engineered\ Comeback Team Prepares to Put Undefeated Record on the Line Against Hobart By Frank Rossi Editor-in-Chief Head Coach John Audino said that he would take 2-0 victories all season long by his Fighting Dutch- men. Little by little, the Union College Fighting Dutchmen, are coming closer to that type of score, as the Dutchmen, who at one point led 27-0 Saturday, defeated the Worcester Tech Engineers, 27-20. was just happy to help the team. \Ifthey need me to step in, I want to help out the team the best 1 can.\ The score remained 7-0 for most of the remainder of the first half, even though Unionsophomore Joe Attanasio intercepted a Rich Boardman pass later in the first quarter. The turnover was nulli- fied by a Union fumble at the WPI 29, but WPI again coughed up the ball on an interception to freshman Devon Wimberly, his second of the season. On WPI's next possession, run- ning back Mike Godfrey helped get the ball down to the Union one- yard line. WPI gave Godfrey three tries to gain the yard, but he failed each time. On fourth and goal from the one, Boardman's pass was broken up by junior defensive end John Visconti. Audino made several major per- sonnel decisions throughout the week, including Saturday morn- ing, because of disciplinary rea- sons. The most unexpected pre- game announcement was that jun- ior quarterback Tom McKeown would not start the game. \We had some people that did not do the things they were supposed to do in tenns of meetings and different kinds ofthings. We felt we needed to make a statement and make sure the kids knew what was going on.\ Starting at quarterback was fresh- man Jeff Ferraro, who saw mini- mal time in the Yale scrimmage two weeks prior. With fi·ve minutes remaining in the first half, Union drove from their 40 to the WPI five-yard line on two passes to senior wide re- ceiver Marc Heller totaling 45 yards. Unable to punch in the ball, the Dutchmen called on sopho- more kicker Ben Blackwood to kick a 22-yard field goal. Blackwood had sat for most ofthe game as Audino tested his other kickers, John Becker, Dan Hamister, and Bryan Slekes. Blackwood's attempt was blocked, but the ball fell in front of the line of scrimmage and was touched by a WPI team member. Union line- man Pat Fortin picked up the ball and charged toward the endzone, stopping at the one-yard line. Af- ter some deliberation, the Dutch• men were awarded the ball, and on the next play, sophomore running back Rob Bennett charged through Union quarterback Tom McKeown continues his consistent play for the Dutchnun. ·(Aaron Braunstein I TC) Ferraro took his first official collegiate snap soonerthan antici- pated, as WPI fumbled the open- ing snap at the 25-yard line, where. senior linebacker Erik Edson landed on the ball. Ferraro threw a !ow pass into double coverage into the endzone on a third and four from WPI' s 19. Ferraro said, \I tried to throw a little higher than I did, but fortunately, it got tipped into [sophomore receiver Brian O'Donnell's] hands.\ O'Donnell, who received for I 01 yards on four catches, started for senior Ryan Smith due to disciplinary reasons. Ferraro, who saw no further action, WPI's defensive line for the sec- ond touchdown 0 f the day. Blackwood missed the extra point, giving Union a 13-0 lead with 2:08 remaining in the first half. WPI made the mistake of leav- ing Union too much time to score again in the first half, as the Engi- neers were forced to punt with 0:50 remaining. McKeown, whothrew for 160 yards, one touchdown, and an interception as he went I 0 for 21; completed. his pass to a wide- open O'Donnell down the middle of the field. O'Donnell broke two tackles to secure a 58-yard to'uch- down reception. O'Donnell stressed the importance of team- work in the play, saying, \Our [of- fensive J line did a great job block- ing, and Tom [McKeown] had enough time to get rid of the ball.\ Tile 20-0 halftime score was in- creased to 27-0 as freshman run- ning back Jay Warzala carried the ball 59 yards in five carries during the first Dutchmen drive of the second half. Warzala scored his first touchdown of the season and rushed for exactly I 00 yards on the afternoon as a_ backup running back. Warzala was thrilled with the time he saw as starter Joe Latella sat out the initial drives of Women's Soccer Continues Win Streak Coach Impressed With Team's Handling of Pressure By Geoff Sullivan Sports Editor For a team made up of mostly freshman and sophomores, the Union College Women's Soccer Team is certainly opening up the eyes of those who follow their play. After an exciting 1-0victory over Oneonta last week, the Dutchwomen brought their record to 3-0. What's even more impres- Sophomore Beth Fisher helped women's soccer remain un.rte}E~at~~a past weekend. (Laurie Kirschner I TC) sive is that the team has yet to give up a goal in six periods of play. ·While Union was victorious over Oneonta, the game was anything but a breeze in the park. In what could only be described as a game of \physical warfare,\ penalties and yellow cards came to symbolize the make-up of the play. Oneonta, in an attempt to defeat Union, trie.d using their ex- perience to bully the young Dutchwomen. However, the team did not submit to the pressure. Head Coach Brian Speck was im- pres~ed by his team· s perfor- mance. \They did not back down. As a young team, they played tough and handled themselves well on the field.\ Once Union fresh- man Missy Matusewicz netted her first collegiate goal,. Oneonta came out with even more force. Yell ow cards were assessed left and right, but fortunately, Union was able t~ hold on to the lead for the victory. \I was glad to see everyone show their heart and desire as the game went on,\ said Speck. \We were fortunate to win,. and with each win I see growth which will help us later on down the road.\ A major reason why the team is off to such a quick start has been the play of senior tri-captain Julie Barton and sophomores Jaymee Wilson and Liz Schmidt. Along w.ith sophomore goalkeeper Shan- non Powers, the three have shut down opposing offenses and have yet to let a ball get passed them. Playing a new zone defense this year, each player has accepted the switch with ease, as the game re- sults have certainly illustrated. This weekend, the Dutch women travel to Vassar for a Saturday showdown ~efore returning home to take on a tough Utica squad in a Monday afternoon battle. If the team's solid play continues, this team has the potential to be one of the college's strongest in recent years. the game, and he looks forward to more carries. \I really didn't know what t.o expect coming out. The line did a great job, and I did the best T could.\ The ride Turns After the score reached 27,0, Coa<:h Audino decided to give some ofhis younger defensive tal- ent an opportunity to shine and his starters some time to rest. \I thought we were a little tired. I didn't play the reserves beca11se of the score. We played the reserves because I thought our kids were a Continued on Page 13

Fighting Dutchmen Derail \Engineered\ Comeback Tca111 PrcJJ,1rcs to Pill lr!ldcfeatcd Record 011 tlte Li11e ~·1gltillst 1/obtirl By Frank Rossi Editor-in-Chief Head Coach John Audino said that he would take 2-0 victories all season long by his Fighting Dutch- men. Little by little, the Union College Fighting Dutchmen are coming closer to that type of score, as the Dutchmen, \Vho at one point kd 27-0 Saturday, defeated the Worcester Tech Engineers, 27-20. was just happy to help the team. \lfthey need me to step in, I want to help out the team the best I can.\ The score remained 7-0 for most of the remainder of the first half, even though Union sophomore Joe Attanasio intercepted a Rich Boardman pass later in the first quarter. The turnover was nulli- fied by a Union fumble at the WPI 29, but WPI again coughed up the ball on an interception to freshman Devon Wimberly, his second of the season. On WPI 's next possession, run- ning back Mike Godfrey helped get the ball down to the Union one- yard line. WPI gave Godfrey three tries to gain the yard, but he failed each time. On fourth and goal from the one, Boardman's pass was broken up by junior defensive end John Visconti. :.···~ ..... ·· r\. . ' : ~ ' Audino made se\ era! major per- sonnel decisions throughout the \\cek, including Saturday morn- ing, because of disciplinary rea- sons. The most unexpected pre- game announcement was that jun- ior quarterback Tom McKeown would not start the game. \We had some people that did not do the things they were supposed to do in terms of meetings and different kinds ofthings. We felt we needed to make a statement and make sure the kids knew what was going on.\ Starting at quarterback was fresh- man kff r erraro, who saw mini- mal time in the Yale scrimmage two weeks prior. With five minutes remaining in the first half, Union drove from their 40 to the WPl five-yard line on two passes to senior wide re- CI.!iver Marc llellcr totaling 45 yards. Unable to punch in the ball, the Dutchmen called on sopho- more kicker Ben Blackwood to kick a 22-yard field goal. Blackwood had sat for most of the game as Audino tested his other kickers, John Becker, Dan Hamister, and Bryan Slekes. Blackwood's attempt was blocked, but the ball fell in front of the line of scrimmage and was touched by a WPI team member. Union line- man Pat Fortin picked up the ball and charged toward the endzone, stopping at the one-yard line. Af- ter some deliberation, the Dutch- men were awarded the ball, and on the next play, sophomore running back Rob Bennett charged through Union quarterback Tom McKeown continues his consistent play for the Dutchmen. (Aaron Braunstein I TC) Ferraro took his first official collegiate snap sooner tlmn antici- pated, as WPI fumbled the open- ing snap at the 25-yard I ine, where senior I inebacker Erik Edson landed on the ball. Ferraro threw a low pass into double coverage into the endzone on a third and four from WPI's 19. Ferraro said, \I tried to throw a little higher than I did. but fortunately, it got tipped into [sophomore receiver Brian O'Donnell's] hands.\ O'Donnell, who received for I 0 I yards on four catches, started for seni()r Ryan Smith due to disciplinary reasons. Ferraro, who saw no further action, WPI's defensive line for the sec- ond touchdown of the day. Blackwood missed the extra point, giving Union a 13-0 lead with 2:08 remaining in the first half. WPl made the mistake of leav- ing Union too much time to score again in the first half, as the Engi- neers were forced to punt with 0:50 remaining. McKeown, who threw for 160 yards, one touchdown, and an interception as he went I 0 for 21, completed his pass to a wide- open O'Donnell down the middle of the field. O'Donnell broke two tackles to secure a 58-yard touch- down reception. 0' Donnell stressed the importance of team- work in the play, saying, \Our [of- fensive] line didagreatjob block- ing, and Tom [McKeown] had enough time to get rid of the ball.\ The 20-0 halftime score was in- creased to 27-0 as freshman run- ning back Jay Warzala carried the ball 59 yards in five carries during the first Dutchmen drive of the second half. Warzala scored his first touchdown of the season and rushed for exactly 1 00 yards on the afternoon as a backup running back. Warzala was thrilled with the time he saw as starter Joe Latella sat out the initial drives of Women's Soccer Continues Win Streak Coach Impressed With Team's Handling of Pressure By Geoff Sullivan Sports Editor Team is certainly opening up the eyes of those who follow their play. After an exciting 1-0 victory over Oneonta last week, the Dutch women brought their record to 3-0. What's even more impres- Sophomore Beth Fisher helped women's soccer remain undefeated this past weekend. (Laurie Kirschner I TC) sive is that the team has yet to give up a goal in six periods of play. While Union was victorious over Oneonta, the game was anything but a breeze in the park. In what could only be described as a game of \physical warfare,\ penalties and yellow cards came to symbolize the make-up of the play. Oneonta, in an attempt to defeat Union, tried using their ex- perience to bully the young Dutch women. However, the team did not submit to the pressure. Head Coach Brian Speck was im- pressed by his team's perfor- mance. \They did not back down. As a young team, they played tough and handled themselve::; well on the field.\ Once Union fresh- man Missy Matusewicz netted her first collegiate goal, Oneonta came out with even more force. Yellow cards were assessed left and right, but fortunately, Union was able to hold on to the lead for the victory. \I was glad to see everyone show their heart and desire as the game went on,\ said Speck. \We were fortunate to win,imd with each win I see growth which will help us later on down the road.\ A major reason why the team is off to such a quick. start has been the play of senior tri-captain Julie Barton and sophomores Jaymee Wilson and Liz Schmidt. Along with sophomore goalkeeper Shan- non Powers, the three have shut down opposing offenses and have yet to let a ball get passed them. Playing a new zone defense this year, each player ha::; accepted the switch with ease, as the game re- sults have certainly illustrated. This weekend, the Dutchwomen travel to Vassar for a Saturday showdown before returning home to take on a tough Utica squad in a Monday afternoon battle. If the team's scolid play continues, this team has the potential to be one of the college's strongest in recent years. the game, and he looks forward to more carries. \I really didn't know what to expect coming out. The line did a great job, and I did the best I could.\ The Tide Turns After the score reached 27-0, Coach Audino decided to give some of his younger defensive tal- ent an opportunity to shine and his starters some time to rest. \I thought we were a little tired. I didn't play the reserves because of the score. We played the reserves because I thought our kids were a Continued on Page 23 Field Hockey Regains Momentum By Stefanie Speanburg Cmttributillg Writer In spite of two discouraging losses in the first week of the Dutch women's season, the field hockey team came back ready for wins. The old adage holds true for this team- perseverance does pay off. Union steamrolled Hamilton, in a 4-1 win. Hillary Olk and Gina Lupino scored a goal each, and Tonya Capparello scored two. Captain Carrie Heroth said, \The team played well as a unit. This was evident in the team's communi~ cation, passing, and transition.\ This win would set the tone for the week. Union College field hockey shut down Mount . Holyoke 3-0, with Jackie Eatz scoring a goal and Tonya C'apparello again scoring two ·goals. Captain Rachel Rothschild at• Co11tiltuedon Page 13

