Sports: Hockey Wins A Pair page 20 The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Crosstalk Offers Suggestions for Hull: Future of Achilles Remains Uncertain by Jody Mousseau Staff Writer The Crosstalk on January 28 regarding the ftJ,ture of Achilles Rink and the opinions of the Union College community re- garding Union's involvement in the construction of the potential North Jay Street facility offered little new information for the Union community. The panel consisted of Hana Yamashita,. Women's Ice Hockey Club president, Adam Deutsch, Students ~- Takethe High Note by A11jali Balasirtgham Staff Writer Old Chapel was packed with people on Saturday evening as Union's first Mock Rock got un- derway. Twelve groups of stu- dents lip-synched their favorite songs in front of a panel of judges and an audience of around 200 people. Sophomore Christine Bower took the first prize of$.1 00 for her performance of\Groove Is In the Heart\ by Dee-lite. \It was tons of fun. I had a great time,\ she said. Bower was inspired to per~ form because \a lot of people said that I look like the group's lead singer, so I decided to try it out. I was really nervous in the begin- ning, but once I got up there, I was just having a lot of fun. There were tons of people there.\ Fresh- man Sean Faucher, with Bon Jovi's \Wanted Dead or Alive,\ placed second and received $60. Juniors Jen Amann, Jinsy Andrews, Colleen Dowd, Aileen Quigley, and Jaya Saxena took third place and $40 with a rendi- tion of \Wannabe\ by Spice Girls.\We went abroad to Europe, and we all heard the song in di f- ferent places,\ said Saxena. \Col- leen heard it in Italy, 1 heard it in France, and Jinsy heard it in Ire- land. We all just loved it when we got together, and we bough.t the tape in London. When we heard about Mock Rock, we thought it would be really cool to try it out. We thought it was really fun, and continued on page 4 INSIDE: member of the student body, Pres.ident Roger Hull, Ryan Boyd, a member of the men's hockey team, and Michael Winn, a fresh- man representative of the Student Forum. The Crosstalk was mod- erated by Elizabeth Malaspim~. Deutsch, Yamashita, and Boyd offered a perspective evincing the negative aspects of Union College's involvement in the con- struction of a North Jay Street fa- cility, while Winn, supported the possibility of Union's participa- tion in the potential facility. Hull stressed several times dur- ing the Crosstalk that no decisions have been made, and that Union is weeks, if not months, away from making any decis.iot:ts re- garding the N()nth Jay Street hockey facility. Several spectaQ tors of the Cmsstalk questioned Hull's consideration ~of student opinion in making any decisions regarding the facihty and re- minded Hull of the tl)eal plan in- cide!lt just two years ago when student opinion greatly opposed the notion of. mandatory meal plans for members of Greek or- ganizations. .In this case, Hull instated mandatory meal plans lor those individuals despite student opinion. Hull commented that al- though student opinion is impor- tant on campus, that \student opinion should not be a deciding factor in and of itself\ Hull also indicated that t:noney is not the deciding factor in determining whether Union College will be- come involved in the potential North Jay Street facility. \It's doable to raise $2.5 million,\ commented Hull in regards to the possibility of renovating A chi lies Rinkto maintain an on-campus facility. \Can the money be raised if one decides to go that ') y· \ way. es. Student opposition to the no- tion ofUnion College's possible involvement in the construction of an off-campus facility was evi- dent at thcCrosst;1lk Though the Crosstalk was primarily tor mem- bers of the Union community to voice their opinions on the issue, little support tor Union's involve- ment in a North Jay Street facil- ity or in the conversion of Achil- ks Rink for student social space continued 011 page 3 Can Machinery·Be Melodious? . ner, said that the library will take and other such facilities. \All will craned out and placed t n on a new and e!hj>ty back facade seem swished and stressed for a dumpsters, there is still the possi- as of February 11. The inside little while until everyone gets bility of an unsightly concrete and work is the main focus, so that used to the construction phase.\ brick heap or two aligning the by Stephanie Slobotkin News Editor According to the latest update on the progress of the Schaffer Library construction, students, faculty, and staffmay want to go the hardware store to pick up some hard hats and ear plugs. The meeting for the Olin and Sc~affer planning and awareness, which was held on Tuesday, January 28 and discussed the most recent is- sues pertaining to both projects, focused mainly on the upcoming Schaffer construction. Bill Shaffer, the campus plan- Campus News .................................... 2 Opinion.Y!Editol'ia/,<; ..•.... .................. 6 mechanical connections can be Usual walkways and shortcuts front ofthe gym. severed andthe\functioning\ ar- to the library from the backside This part of the construction, eas of the library can remain suit- will be cut off. The area between however, is said not to last long able places to study. Jean the teimis courts and the Alumni and will be cleaned up quickly Sheviak, actingLibrary Director, Gym will soon be occupied by and efficiently. The louder and agreed with Shaffer when he said tractors and other large and nee- more hassle-related work will that the present condition of the essary machinery. On February take place at the end of a three library reached the stage of\regu- 11 a mechanical, jackhammer- day demolition period. The ma- lar inconveniences.'' Students are type machine will be knocking chinery required to completely now able to look at the bulletin down the old library, creating a break down the back ofthc library board posted intl1e entrance to the considerable amount of noise and at ong with the accompanying building in order to be aware of waste. Although Shaffer says the dumpsters will result in an ex- operating stairways, bathrooms, rubbish will be immediately continued on page 4 Features .................. : .................................. 8 Global News .............................. 12 Al't,\' and Entertainment ............. , ............. JO Sports ....................................... 20

Features: Red, Rea l1reasts pag~~ one or Sports: Hockey Wins A Pair page 20 ., l ~'\ ~ The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 ...,.nn Crosstalk Offers Suggestions for Hull: Future of Achilles Remains Uncertain by ,Jody Mousseau Staff Writer The Crosstalk on January 28 regarding the future of Achilles R.ink and the opinions of the Union College community re- garding Union's involvement in the construction of the potential North Jay Street facility offered li ttlc new information for the Union community. The panel consisted of I lana Yamashita. Women's Icc I Iockey Club president Adam Deutsch, Students Take the High Note by Anjali Balasingham Staff Writer Old Chapel was packed with rcoplc on Saturday evening as \Inion's first Mock Rock got un- derway. Tweh·e groups of stu- lll-111' lir-<;'nched their f:wmite \(lflgS Ill front nfa rant:! OIJUdgco; anJ an audience <'f around ~on people. Sophomnre Christine Row..:r tonJ.. the flr~t pri;,: of~ ](Hl f(,r her r..:rformancc of\GroO\ cIs In the I !cart\ by Dee-lite. \It was tons llf fun. I had a great time.\ she said. Rower \\as inspired to pcr- l\orm because \a lot of people said that I look I ike the group's lead singer. so I decided to try it out. I \\as real!\ nervous in the bcgm- ning. hut once I got up there.! \\as .1 ust ha1 ing a lot of fun. There were tons of people there.\' Fresh- man Sean Faucher, with Bon Jovi's \Wanted Dead or Alive,\ placed second and received $60. Juniors Jen Amann, Jinsy Andrews, Colleen Dowd. Aileen Quigley, and Jaya Saxena took third place and $40 with a rendi- tion of \Wannabe\ by Spice Girls.\We went abroad to Europe. and we all heard the song in dif- ferent places.\ said Saxena. \Col- leen heard it in Italy, I heard it in France, and Jinsy heard it in Ire· land. We all just loved it when we got together, and we bought the tape in London. When we heard about Mock Rock, we thought it would be really cool to try it out. We thought it was really fun, and continued on page 4 member of the student body. President Roger Hull, Ryan Boyd. a member of the men's hockey team, and Michad Winn. a fresh- man representative of the Student Forum. The Crosstalk was mod- erated by Elizabeth Mal as pi na. Deutsch. Yamashita. and Boyd ofTered a perspective evincing the negative aspects of Union College's involvement in the con- struction of a North Jay Street fa- cility. while Winn supported the possibility of Union's participa- tion in tht.! potential facility. !lull stressed several times dur- ing the Crosstalk that 110 decisions have been made. a11d that Union is weeks. if not 1nonths. away from making an:y dt.:c is ions re- garding the North Jay Street hockey facility. St.!\ era! specta- tors of the Crosstalk questioned II ull' s considera ticn of student opinion in making any decisions regarding the facility and re- minded Hull nfthc meal plan in- cident just two years ago when student opinion grt;atly opposed the notion of mandatory meal plans for memhe rs of Greek or- ganizations. In t·his case. I lull i nstatcd mandatory meal plans for those indi\ iduals despite ~tudent opinion. !lull commented that al- though :;tudent opinio11 is impor- tant on cam pus. that ··~tuLknt opinion should not he a dec1ding factor in and of itself\ Hull also indicated that monel 1s not the deciding bctor 111 Jctcrmming whether lin ion College \\ rll be- come im oh ed in the p<ltential North Jay Street fitcility. \It's doable to raise s~ \ lll illion.\ commented !lull in regards to the possi bi I ity of reno\ a ti ng /\chi lie.., Rink to maintain an on-Gtmpus fac!litv \Can the mnnc' k· raised if one decides to !:',ll t1Lt1 \\ay'? Yes.\ Student oppmrlron to the...· lltl- tilln of l :111011 ('pJiege · ~ p1 1'\1bk· 1moh cmenl 1n the Ulll'>lructron of an off-campus faci!Jt~ \\ :h L'\ 1- Jcnt at the Crosstalk Th(mgl1 the Crosstalk was pnmaril) l(w nlcm- bers of the llnion commur11l1 In \ oice tiH.:ir opinJons (lfl the 1:-.'uc. little surport for { '111on', iniDI\c- ment in a \Jorth .fa\ Street t\';u:ll- ity or in till: com crsion nf :h:hil- ks RinJ.. for stuJL·nt ~ocial 'Jla,c...· continued mz fJtTJW 3 ve Meguerdicltian!TC) Can Machinery Be Melodious? ner,saidthatthe library will take andothcrsuchfacilities. \All will craned out and placed 111 on a new and empiy back facade seem swished and stresseu for a dumpsters. there is still the possi- as of February 11. lhe inside little while until everyone gets hility of an unsightly concrete and work is the main focus. so that used to the construction phase.\ brick heap or t\vo aligning the by Stephanie Slobotkin News Editor According to the latest update on the progress of the Schaffer Library construction, students, faculty, and staff may want to go the hardware store to pick up some hard hats and ear pi ugs. The meeting for the Olin and Schaffer planning and awareness, which was held on Tuesday, January 2& and discussed the most recent is- sues pertaining to both projects, focused mainly on the upcoming Schaffer construction. Bill Shaffer, the campus plan- mechanical connections can be Usual walkwavs and shortcuts front of the gym. severed and the ' 4 functioning\ ar- to the library from the backside This part of the constn.Jction. eas of the library can remain suit- will he cut off. The area het\\een hov .. ·ever. is said not to last long able places to study. Jean thetenniscourtsand the Alumni and will be cleaned up quickly Sheviak, acting Litrary Director. Gym will soon be occupied by and efficiently. The lotJdcr and agreed with Shaffer when he said tractors and other large and nee- more hassl..:-rclated \1 ork \\ill that the present condition of the essary machinery. On February take place at the end of:~ three library reached the stage of\regu- I I a mechanicaL jackhammer- day demolition reriod The ma· larinconveniences..\ Studentsare type machine will ht.! knocking chinery required to (omplctd:- now able to look at the bulletin down the d d library. creating a break dmvn the back of the li bran boardpostedintheenlrancetothe considerableamountofnoiseand along with the accomp<mying building in order io be aware of waste. Although Shaffer says the dumpsters will result in Hl C'-:· operating stairwa:ys, bathrooms, rubbish vvill be immediately continued 11 n pllge 4 ' • ., • • .' '• r • - ' ' • ' • ' •• ' - • • • ' • • • { ' • ' ,' ' • (;In hal New~ .2 Features .. ,· -.JNSIJJ/3.~-, . : I . .. ' . . ,_, ( 'ampu.1· Nell'S .................... . Opinions!h\ditoria/.1· . . . . . . . ............ () Al'rs om/ Fntertainmenl .

. ' . Pa~?;C 2 • February 6. I ?97 • 'illlp~ <!Iomtni:ticttsis : . - Campus News Campus Info The Student Affairs Council will be conducting a review process for housing renewal for Sigma Delta Tau, Kappa Alpha, and Bronner. CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY · INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1997 THROUGFfSUNDA Y, FEBRUARY 2,.1991 House. those who 'YOul'd like to share their impressions ofany of the DATE/TIME LOCATION INCIDENT houses should submit comments by February 17, 1997, in writing to:· . . MONDAY, JANUARY 2], 1997: . Prof. Hugh Jenkins, SAC Ch-aJr English Department Humanities Building 4:05 PM Social Science TUESDAY, .JANUARY 28, .1997: UNAUTHQRIZED.ACCESS: FacuJty _ member's computer ccessed without permission. Data tiles damaged. . . Union College Undergraduate Summer Research Fellowships Available · 1 :J6 PM ·· · · Pottei South · SAFETY HAZARD: Candles being used in Earn $2000 plus free room at the College You must have a faculty sponsor for your project Information and applications at the Dean's Office S t 00 Science Center Applications due March 5th· African American Women in Education Professor Claudia Wint (SUNY) February 6, 1997 CC AUD 7:00pm 10:00 AM West College WEDNESDAY, ;JAN1JARY 29,1997: ! 2:50AM Hickok area THURSDAY, .JANUARY 30, 1997': 1:45AM Alexander Lane 10:56 AM Social Science 2:15PM Arts FRIDAY, .JANUARY 31,1997: !1:53AM, S&E 5:00PM OtT Campus public assembly area creating fire risk. . SAFETY HAZARD: Kitchen statTunable to hear fire alarrrt Work order submitted to install fire b&::ll in kitchen area. DRIVING VIOLATION: Student's car driven across lawn. ,- VANDALISM/SAFETY HAZARD: Tratfic control sign removed from post. UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS: Fac1,1lty member's computer mDnitor changed- possible computer tampering. ' SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Visitor loitering in hallways. Visitor locate<! an~ identified. No legjtimate purpose to be in the building. Visitor left campus. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Unknown person found inside faculty member's oft1ce. Suspect left area when confronted by member.. Area searched unable to .locate suspect THEFT OF SERVICES: Local vendor reports student left premises without paying for putchase. Student identified matter settled. Sponsored by Sigma Ga!\'ma Rho Sorority, Inc. . SATURDAY. FEBRUARY 1,1997: \' .. 1 :51 AM Raymond/Potter Lot D.ISORDERL Y CONDUCT: Altercation among students. Su~jects involved reported . as gone on arrival. Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers \The Branch to the Real World\ . 3:06AM Raymond/Potter Lot DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Altercation Meeting Date: Every Wednesday Evening Place: CC308 Multicultural Room Time: 5:30 p-m Agenda: Registration Fund raising Activities/Events [Attention Sophomores] Petitions will be available to run for . a vacated position of [Sophomore] Class representative starting Friday. February 7 in the Student Activities Office. Petitions will be due Febru- ary 14 and the election will be held February 21st. 5:16AM among students and tudent guest. Conduct charges tiled for providing false identifica tion. · - Whipple Bridge area HARASSMENT/ASSAULT: Student verbally harassed by group of unknown persons. Student t1ed otT campus pursued by group. Altercation ensued off campus. Student assisted by another student pass erby. Group dispersed. SPD came upon scene and notified campus safety. Students sum~red minor. injuries during altercation. . ~ --- -· compact discs, live shows, · cassettes, vinyllp's, 12\ singles, dj tapes playstation, saturn, sega, snes games&systems. movies & .\·haolin/kungjil movies · ab;o vinyllp~\·, I 2'' singles & acce.wJriesall at the hest prices!

Pban Tells Story of Father's Incarceration by Jp(ly Mpusseau Staff Writer Minh Phan is presently a gradu.- ate student and former under- graduate studentatUnion. Heha.s a story unique from that of most any other Union student. Phan originally lived in Viet- nam. In 1990, he arriv.ed .in America with most ofhis family still in Vietnam, unable to escape with him to America, Phal],,.s family is presently living illegally in Vietnam and has been since 1975. Phan's father, Hien Dinh Phftn had escaped from North Vietnam to South Vietnam in 1954 due to the threat of the Communist re- gime. After his escape to S()utn Vietnam, he worked as the Chief of the Information Department of South Vietnam. the Chief ofFsy War Service in Long An, an as- sistant to USAIP in Military Z<Jne 4, and the Chief of Open Arms Center of Saigon. In 1975 wlien the Communist regime took mer South Vietnam. Phan's father evaded the government and in 1981 was taken as a political pris- oner in Vietnam in for \counter revolutionary activities'' because he was the vice-president of an organization which opposed the Communist regime. He had been the governor of Saigon and did not attend the \political reeduca- tion\ camps that were required by tile Communist government. The leader of the same· organization, who was Hien Dinh Phan's fos- terbrother, was shot the next year. From l9~t to 1984, Hien Dinh Phan was held in a special politi- cal prison, 'Phan Davg Luu in Saigon, transferred to a different prison for one year, and then re- located in 1985 to a Political Re- education Camp called K3 Xuan Loc Dong Nai. Phan and his family are able to visit his father only once every two months tor five minutes. For the first five years of his incar- ceration, they were not allowed to visit him. Presently, Hi en Dinh Phan is 77 years old. Phan has written to several au- thorities, including Congressman McNulty, the Department of State, and President Clinton. Viet- nam has conducted several rounds of talks with the United States re- garding human rights, including two in 1994 and two in 1995. He has hoped that his efforts would bring better conditions for his fa- ther and eventually his release from prison. On Tuesday, February 18 and Wednesday, February 19, the Union CoHege Chapter of Am- nesty International will be host- ing a letter writing campaign in the college center atrium to lobby for the release ofPhan's father in Vietnam. Phan stated that he hopes it wi'll \help [his] dad re- turn with 'his family.\ He hopes to persuade officials that his fa- ther is extremely Qld and would not be able to cause any harm to their regime. With the assistance ofthe Union community, we hope to make this an extremely success- ful campaign to help one of the members of our own community. Extra! 'Extra! . .. '. 0. J. Found Liable by Frank Rossi SU1.// Writf;!r Just before deadline, 1'11~ Concord;ensis wanted to find O'Ut · what students thought about tile 0. J. Simpson \Wrongful Deatlr verdict. Simpson was found li- able on all eight questions pre- sentedto arrall-whitejury, and;lte will have to pay $8.5 miilion in compensatory damages (plus un- known punitive damages) to tile families of Ronald Goldman a11d Nicole Brown Simpson. Students felt that Simpson was lucky not to be found guilty in his 1995 criminal trial. Junior Do11g Dakin stated, \Justice is finally served. You can't buy your way out of everything.\ Others agreed . with Dakin~ adding that $8.5 mil- · statement, \I wish this verdict had lion is notenough of a penalty for come in the criminal trial.\ Simpsen. \No amount of money will compensate for the fact that he killed two people. The only reason he got away with it in the first place is because he's a ce- lebrity,\ according to senior Aaron Greenberg. Freshman Hillary London echoed Greenberg's statement, adding, \$8.5 milli()n is not enough. Do you honestly think if someone did that to one of your family mem- The most common response was apathetic compared to the tirst verdict. Senior Robin MacDonald hinted that this Simpson verdict is not a priority in a student's life. ''I don;t care about the verdict. There are more important things going on in the world right now.\ Behind the glitz and glamour of the California setting and the news crews, however, is the fact that Ronald Goldman and Nicole bers, that you would think [$8.5 Brown Simpson are not alive to million] is sufficient?\ watch these events. Senior Keith Comments ranged from sym- pathetic, like senior Vinnie Lopez's statement, \Let a man live. He's broke as it is,\ to dis- Parry summed up the scene, stat- ing, \What got lost was two people died, and somebody has to be held accountable. All the evi- •usted, like ·unior Mike Breslin's dence oints towards Sim son.'' Crosstalk continuedftompage 1 was given. Members of the panel whoop- posed the moving of the hockey facility off campus stressed that it was not the tear of change that caused their opposition, but rather the fear oflosing the tradition and com·munity that Union proudly displays. Hana Yamashita stated, \Union College is based on tra- dition, and Achilles Rink is based on that tradition.'; Along similar lines, Adam Deutsch commented, \I think the sense of community we have is good.\ Michael Winn, the panel mem- ber who supported the idea of an otT-campus facility, stressed that Union would be helping to re- build Schenectady if the rink were moved off campus. Winn commented that the bui !ding of a first class facility on the North Jay Street lot would bring small busi- nesses to the area. Winn offered the opinion that, \Achilles Rink is good, but why shouldn't we strive for better?\ A reb11ttal was given to Willll~ s suggestion when Andrew Will, captain of the men's hockey team, stated, \'In terms of small busi- nesses flourishing and saving Schenectady, I think we may be getting hi a little over our heads.\ Will then confronted Hull by stat- ing that if an off-campus facility could be built-and Achilles Rink were to be converted into student social space, the possibility exists that fewer students would attend the hockey games and that only a small number of students wcmld use the social space in the con- verted Achilles Rink. Though the Crosstalk offered nonewinfonnation for the Onion College community regarding the College's intentions in the p()ten- tial North Jay Street facility, it allowed students and spectat()rsto otTer their opinions. Hull stressed that no decisions will be made in the immed.iate future. CDC Updates ••• Racrui'Ung lnfo.rm.atlon: •Prudential Preferred Financial Services: Po~itions in sal.~sales management Resume J)ea(l]ine: Feb., 10 by Spm. . •Maryland S.tate Highway Administration: On-campus in· telViews for highway and traffic engineering positions. CE's- submit :y()ur resume and sign up for an interview time slot by Mon. Feb. 10. •Keane, Inc. will be on campus to interview selliors interested in tech• nical consUlting.. Resume, transcript deadline: Mpn .. Feb. 17 hY Sm. OM:. Company/position literature is available. www.keane.com. · • 0, W •. D. INc., a medium sized manufacturer located in Thpper Lake, NY, is seeking '97 graduates for a Programmer/ Analyst Position. SubiDlt resuJQe. transcript, and academic reference by Mon. Feb. 24 at 5pm . •F1rst Investors Corp. has positions for financial sales representative~. Resume deadline: Mon. Feb. 24 by Spm. http:wwwJFirstlnvestors.oom ····························~··········· Programs/Workshops: Job Search Stra~egiea \Utrk•hop- Do you have a resume/cover letter'! Have you had lntetviews'! Learn the steps to take next for a successful job seaJCIJ. Wed .. Feb 12th at 4pm OR Thes. Fe~. 18 at 4J.lm. Sign up now. · Co-op Panel ~ Join your peers for a panel disCIIssion on Wednesday, Fell· ruary 12, 6::30pm. Sevecal Engineering .students will share their expoed· ences and offer insights and information about co-op opportunities. Loca· tion to be announced. Attention All Sophomores: Especially designed Sophomore Start-up; Thtirs. Feb. 13, 4pm-5:30. Career Center StJiffwill discuss the resour-res. services and bow we can work with you in planning for your future. COME INTO MOJO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! lchanectady 1041 llate Street 182·&778 e - r-~--- ~--r------- ________ t___ ~--- ·~ :50% OFF 1 33~ 1 84.99 186.00 OFF I : PROCESSING • REPRINTS • Bx1 0 • CLUB I I Rcce.ive so-A off til. c. regulu 1 1 . 1 1 Limit 3 8x.l0 enlargements._ II Receive SS.QO otT when I Limit 20 standard size 1 ha 1 1 1 pn.ice. of pro<:csltn.. g and I I From your 3Smm co or I you pure •.c a c ub reprints. From ·your 3Smm · be bi 1 .... 1 1 pnntmg color pnnt film. 1 . I aeaattve. I mem rs p. n~ust present I!! I color negative. I CUI1om croppena may be: available at IJl I coupon to re~ei~e ss.oo off. I I Lalllf( 3 I'OIII SlaNIInbiize pnnl.S only a.ddaitonal chute Not vabd w1th ather I Not valid wilh Olbl:r CQUIK)IlS or c11tra let 1 . Not vahd with other coupons or of'fcn I courons m cain set promotaons Club I Umir one per pmon. Not valid with I promottons Club tne:mtlen receive Club membcn reteivc: I~~. coupon pncc: members rec:eJYc 1 ~~ coupon price. odlct coupon. or otrcn. I I IC)Ii~coupollllricC. I .. . I . I t Ji!..~t.lf!!!!S..! i1J:51ll.'!'!OJ!S_! F.9'1li.~C!.~-! i!J\f2P..!!.o.JP-_ .•__.

Stimpson to Speak at Founders Day Convocation by Stephanie Slobotkin News Editor Catherine R. Stimpson, Direc- tor ofthe Fellows Division of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation in Chi- cago, also known as the \genius awards,\ will give the address during the College's Founders Day Convocation on Saturday, February 8, at 11:30 AM in Me- morial Chapel. Described in a newspaper headline as \the keeper of creativity's safety net,\ Stimpson . is in charge of this prestigious organization. Each year, the pro- gram rewards a gFoup o.f accom- plished individuals with unsolic- ited gifts between $150;000 and $350,000. In the foundation's view, Fel- lows possess excep\ional creativ- ity and the potential to make a sig- nificant difference in the way people think and act. They are also people whom the foundation believes could use the money to work more freely. The awards come with no strings attached. \I really take seriously indi- vidual possibilities, and we can't cut back on the safety net for cre- ativity.\ Stimpson once told The ( 'hronicle c!l Philanthropy. Rutgers University. Currently, she is on extended leave from her position as a pro- fessor at Rutgers. She was the first director of the Women's Center of Barnard and of the In- stitute for Research on Women at Rutgers and was ~he founding editor of Signs: Journal of· Women in Culture and Society. Her publications include a novel, · Clas.\' Notes (1979), and more than 150 monographs, essays, stories, and reviews. She also has edited seven books. In 1990, she was president of the Modern Lan- guage Association. Stimpson is now chair of the National Advi- . sory Committee of the Woodrow . Wilson National Fellowship· Foundation and a member of the . board of PBS. The Convocation will also in- . dude the conferral ofthe Gideon Hawley Teaching A wards in which high school teachers are honored for their influence on . Union College students. The Women's Commission is hosting a reception for Stimpson from 2 to 4 PM in Milano. Lounge. The event is open to the entire Union Community. Since Founders Day is just· around the corner and important speeches, awards. and announce- ments will be made. All should attend. Students and faculty agree that this year's two hundred and sec~ ond birthday celebration will be both interesting as well as educa- Stimpson will be receiving an honorary doctor of letters degree at Founders Day. A graduate of Bryn Mawr College, Stimpson earned her Ph.D. from Columbia University. She joined the En- glish department of Barnard Col- lege in 1963, leaving in 1980 to become a professor of Eng! ish at , tiona!. Stimpson's accomplish- mehts will bring a unique per- spective to Union, and help mold campus coeducation. Mock Rock continued from page 1 we had a great time on stage.'' Mock Rock was the brain- child of senior Rawson Thurber, who worked with both Student Activities and the Social Com- mittee to make the event a real- ity. As part of the so-called \Da da Saturdays\ series, Mock Rock fulfilled the goal .of \pro- viding an atmosphere where anyone would feel comfort- able,\ according to senior Mike Ferguson of Student Activities. \Rawson came to us with the idea,\ said Ferguson, \and we helped in planning and provid- ing the resources to get h done. We had students signing up for two weeks, and it turned out to be really great. It was a fun thing to do before the hockey game, during that humdrum period on Saturday nights.\ Ferguson con- tinued to say that the student re- sponse was impressive. \I..was really excited to see the diver- sity of people there. It was are~ ally good turnout.\ Junior Matt Cohen, Chair of the Social Committee, was one of the contest judges. \I thought that everyone that en- tered the contest put a lot of ef- fort into what they were doing. · They had a lot fun. The specta- tors had a lot of fun, [as did] everyone involved in producing · the event.\ · Machines continued from page 1 tremely noisy atmosphere in all parts of the library. The three day period will allow the workers to break down and remove large slabs of the floors. The construc- tion workers will be on campus from 7 AM. to 3 PM daily until the job is c!lmpleted. The school has arranged a plan in which finals week will not be affected by construction noise or distraction. Dean Alford said that no matter what stage of the con- struction the library is in, students sheuld be well aware of the alter- nate study spaces made available in lieu of the library. The com- mittee agreed that no student should feel as though there is no quiet place in which to study on campus. As of now, besides Feb- ruary 11 and the three day demo- . Iition period, the contractors have basically promised a hassle-free . construction Wells House Teanls up With Local Boys and Girls Club by Aileen Quigley · Assistant News Editor The Boys and Girls Club of Schenectady, together with Wells . House residents, showed their support for the Union Skating Dutchmen against Army on Fri- day, January 31. Fueled up with hot chocolate and cookies, the club membets tang the Chi Psi cow bell and helped cheer the Dutchmena4-2 victory. The club has taken part in events like Fall Fest and Make a Difference Day, and this time they joined mem- bers of Wells for a pre-game pep rally. The Boys and Girls CILib is lo- cated on Craig Street and is open from after-school until 9:00 PM weekly. They had to leave the game early to make the 9:00PM -·-: ; .. . · .. .. THE curfew, but they \really enjoyed themselves\ in tile meantime, ac- cording to Wells member Justin Call. The group of boys and girls, ranging in age from 6 to 13 years old, made posters and. practiced cheers with volunteers before heading to Aohilles Rink. Ouce the game began, they made their presen.ce quite well- known, cheering even louder than some of the Uni<>n students! Vol- unteers including Jill Hirschenfang, Deb Diemont, Emily Smith, and Brian SerreiJ, aloFJg with two Boys and Girls Club directors, enthusiastically joined in the cheers as well. Coming to Union's campus is a fun altemative for the Boys and Girls Club members, and gives them an opportunity to get a taste of what life on a college campus is like. Programs that involve el- ementary arid secondary students in college experiences have the potential to spark an interest in higher educati(')n. Wells House has, taken an activ~ role in fost~r­ ing community involvement, es- pecially with 1he youth of Schenectady. ·In addition to the mentQring pro~ram in Zoller El· ementary, this is one step further to creating in younger students an eaily interest in th~ eollegiat~ ex- perience. If interested in hosting a pro- gram with the Boys and Girls Club of Schenectady, please call Martin Smith at 374-4714 during club hours. Additional informa- tion about community involve~ ment with children and otherwise is available at Wells House, and can be obtained through Justin Call at x 6703or Emily Smith at X 6706. WE'RE LOOKING FOR TOMOR·ROW'S INNOVATORS. Blooml>erg LP. is a leading financial information firm, providing sophisticated data and analysis to_.investment professionals and major companies around the world. THE POSITION Software Developers/System Programmers for entry-level positions in New York City. REQUIREMENTS Technically oriented, BS or MS in finance, economics, computer science, engineering and/or mathematics background, at least two semesters or equivalent programm.ing coursework and knowledge of C, c++, Pascal, FORTRAN or similar language. RESUMES DUE February 10, 1997 at9 am TO CAREER OFFICE BY FOR MORE Speak to your career center INFORMATION representative. WHEN Bloomberg will be holding interviews on 1--------- campus on February 17, 1997. Equal Opportunity Employer -EOE!MJFIV/D

Student Forum Minutes - 1/30/97 Ski Team Races Against }~unds 5:50 - Called to Order - Pellish, Libeunan, Morris, Fox, Tolin, & Drossman absent 5:55- Officer Reports Brantigan - Letter to club presidents about hanging posters meant to help scheduling; Two chess dubs vying for approval Abessi . APhiA fund-raiser coming - Asks for club donations; Intra- ' duces Dana Katz, crew team's finance n;p. - Requests $2,753 for: men's and women's crew due to problems with location the team is forced to keep their boats currently - $400K boathouse has yet to be built, and President Hull is holding $30K from Forum which was meant to go towards boathouse -Athletics takes over next year, hut spring term is in tro11ble without money - Motion (Abessi): $2,753 for crew teams (seconded) - Za11dman questions similarities to Ski Club, but realizes Crew has been established .. Passes unanimously; Black History Month needs to give more details, but so far everything is t~ne 6:05 -Officer Reports On Hold Cl{.mm«n introduces Mike Ferguson to discuss Theme House Con- · sortium amendment to Constitution- Ferguso11 reads statement - Amendment adds a \Consortium\ seat, a transitory year (without a. vote). and then splits the PanHel/IFC half/half vote into a third/third/ . third vote- Drossman asks what if Theme Houses drop below the 5% minimum of student body in amendment .. Ferguson says this would an issue for the For11m when it happens (currently about llO mem- bers)- Abessi wants amendment changing vote. back to half/half if Conso1tium fails to produce 5% at any time; Mankad wonders. what would stop a large group, like the football team, from trying to get a seat on Forum - Ferguson states that it must be a residential group; Zandman concerned about overlap with IFC and Theme House mem- bership - Ferguson states classes, clubs, etc. already breed overlap - Motion (Pathak): Accept amendment with provision (\Should said group fail to meet any of the above qualitications, voting rights will be suspended until all qualifications are again met\) (seconded, closed vote passes 13-1 with 1 abstention) 6:43 - Officer Reports Resume Cohen- Winter Affair set ($6 tickets); Met with Hull about student interaction (Hull skied with ski team Thursday) Mankad - First Multicultural Affairs Group (MAG) meeting; Plans MAG calendar;Chester Arthur House .Jookingto retum to \Interna- ';, Malaspina - Crosstalk tutti out great;' May not take. suqh a I arge Crosstalk role - Needs a committee to help her; Academic Review Book meetitig'had'O attendees;' AAd drsctissir~g-tillendar-changing­ Two options ( 4-3-2/4-2-3 or split-winter t~rm). - Split ¥':inter more seriously being discussed- Drossman states that retention would be tough over break; Malaspina says Terms Abroad, under split winter, would allow longer stays, but when stu,dents return halfwa~ into win- ter term, they would be forced to do independent studies fo remain· okay on 9redits; Brantigati likes current s<;::tup as new system sounds confusing; Malaspina adds faculty wants more research time and com- plain that this would help students findjobs a,nd internships in sum- mer - Brantigan thinks long winter break allows for an internship advantage for Union students; Malaspina closes stating next AAC meeting Feb. II by St~pllanie Slobotkio News Editor· Union College.'s Alpine Ski Club picked up their gear and raced to catch up with other com- petitive teams wllo were tortunate enough not to miss a year ofski- ing. Asofthis September, the Ski . Club started from scratch inmany areas of the sport. Due to a Jack · of a club president, last year's team was no11-existent. This year many students showed enthusiasm for skiing and had the skills to compete. Re- sponding to Graham Lucas's an- nouncements abcrut forming a new team, many interested skiers said they would like to see the school take part in such a sport. After receiving some funding from the Student Forum which was approxi- mately $4,250, and half of last year's dollar amount, this winter the team began to travel to West Moun- tain to prac- tice. Twenty m em be.rs, led by Lucas, take the stu- dent activi- ties' van to practices and races. approacbed the Student Forum on January 16, requesting $2,800 instead of $800 which had been the initial second offer atler the $4,250 given at the beginning of the season. Lucas argued that the club deserves more considering that despite last year'sapathy, the past twenty plus years !tad been successful. He feels that the young team is taking blame for one year of failure. \We are pay- ing the price of the past that we had no control over. We don't even want money for equipment - racing .is the main expense.\ Besides equipment which was not included in the team's request tor more money, they still had to pay for transportation and racing fees. 'The money allotted did pay for transportation. but dub mem- bers are still forced to pay mcing $7,000. In response to Lucas, Kevin Aoessi , Finance Representative on the Student Forum, said, \We recognize that the team has g()t- ten off on the right foot. If they show they can handle a budget this year and learn the ropes of financial responsibility their funds wi II increase next year.\ Abessi respects the fact that Lucas was persistent about racing a11d said, \I think a school like Unhn needs a ski t~am. It's a positive addition to the array of sports al- ready offered.\ Despite the lack of financial aid, the team still manages to compete against other schools on a weekly basis. Schools such as RPI, Skidmore, Clarkson, Colgate, Hamilton, and SUNY A I bany are among their competi- tion. The club gate trains twice a week, from& PM to 9 PM every Tues- day and Thursday at West Moun- tain. Despite the little money allot- ted, Lucas is surprised as to how well the team is doing. In their first weekend race, the team placed Markowski- Freshmen giving money to Tri-Delt alcohol-awareness program - Freshmen want a ski trip (probably March 8) ~Details pend· ing However, life· tickets and racing fees are not paid for by the schoo], Each mem- ber must pay the $30 fee for each race. This amounts to $60 dollars per weekend because there is one day of Slalom rae• ing and one day of Giailt Slalom rac- ing on a given week- Freshma11 Mike Fuller prepares for rt~ce (photo hy Graham Luetcs) . fourth out of tweJ·ve teams. He is impressed with their meticulous efforts and self-support under the ci r- cumstances. Michael Winn, fres·ll- man club member said, \l'he team is g<JCld, but it's frus- trating to see LeDuc- Senior class planning ski trip- Wants to charter bus at end of February (using surveys for student response) Za11dman - Trip to Montreal probably third week of spring - Prob· ably $10 for bus ticket (details pending) Pathak - Humanities professors upset about Rush taking away from \intellectual life\; They question student complaints about study space and why they cannot use their dorm rooms to study; Possible Crosstalk topic 7:14 • Rink Discussion Cunanan disappointed in Crosstalk attendance- People ~hat appeared obviously against - Wants survey for overall sentiment; Cohen says to survey people who go to games now as they are prone to go if rink moves; Proctor states this is an emotional issue in which students have no facts; Drostsman thinks survey should ask if student attends games, and if so, would they be apt to go to new rink; Markowski likes survey, but adds it should ask whether students think social space is legitimate; Malaspina thinks no matter what you do, you will get only a small response percentage; Cunanan will deci.de future moves. 7:32- Co/ten moves to adjourn end. This financial burden created problems for many of the team's members and even forced some member to fees if they choose to participate. Lucas also said that the Student Forum had suggested for the club to become a free skiing organi- that the stu- dent forum can't help us out a little more. We only want money for races, not for expensive equip- ment like most other teams :re- quire.\ quit. The young team, which is made up of mainly fresh- men and ~ophotnores, \The more you experience in racing, the better you get. The budget is so tight that sometimes the whole team was unable to race, and this took a toll on the overall results,\ - Conor McKenzie \The team is rea II y good and has the potential to win a lot of races. T'he desire, tlte was faced with recurring obstacles which in~ hibited them from competing on levels at par with other scltools. ~onor McKenzie, soph<Jmore said, \The more you experience in racing, the better you get. The budget is so tight that sometimes the whole team was unable to race, and this took a toll on the overall results ... My own racing season has been cut short due to lack of financial support,\ Lucas. in search or greater fi- nancial support from the school zation or attend only some of the many races. \I don't understand how fhey can tell me in which ways to run my club. This year's members and I wanted to partici- pate in collegiate racing, a free skiing club is completely not what we had in mind,\ Lucas said. Lucas said that he understood when the forum told him theydid not have enough money to sup- port the club. However, he al- luded to factthat afteThis request, the concert committee was given guts and tile will are there to go out and s.uc- ceed, but without the monetary al- lowance it's virtually impossible. Skiing is an expensive sport and we need all the help we can get,\ McKenzie said, The club will continue to prac- tice and race for the remainder of the season. According to Lucas, they look forward to a larger bud- get next year, but they will d() the best with what they have been given.

':;-' . \' \ ..... \'\- ~~ -\ . t M ~ ' OPJ:ED . , . _ .. ffilyt' <!Il1nro~.birusi~ • February 6, 't997 · Page 6 EDITORIAL Are U Open to Change? Last Wednesday evening the first Crosstalk ofthe term was held to discuss the opportunity ofbuilding a rink for the Skating Dutc.ltrne Dutchwomen off campus within the city of Schenectady. This issue ofthe rink has been the lead story of The Concordiemf.s or four weeks in a row, and the same reaction persists. The students re angry and think President Hull is a thoughtless dictator, while Hull clearly states that nothing has been decided. In Wednesday vening'.s Crosstalk, President Hull said three times in a row, \nc · ecision has been made.\ What boggles the mind of the members of The Concordiensis is he amazing reaction that students take every time something istalcen way from them. We are not suggesting that they sit back in apathy; · uite the contrary, but once this issue is decided, everyone will g() ack to th.eir respective hideouts on campus until their meals, raternities/sororities are threatened to be kicked off campus, or any ther issue that appears at a glance as the downfall of the stude11 ody's voice. It is miraculous how many issues fade away and students actually nanage to survive. While all these issues develop, the rink beingthe 1ottest, students often neglect to think up a better idea to rep lac~ the uggestion they oppose so much. The opportunity to build a ne ink off campus has been received with angry opposition, and atthe · rosstalk only one student took a stand. Freshman Michael Wi nn at on the panel to represent the side of \open-mindedness\. One. tudent out of roughly one hundred decided to simply explore the ositive effect that an off campus facility might have on the ommunity and the school. One student kept the door ope11 fo hange. As angrily as the student body reacts to President Hull for making ecisions without the student body, they react in turn with complete losed-mindedness and blinders to change. For example, Jnany tudents think that there is a need for social alternatives on cam pus. chilies Rink could be converted into a dance hall or fitness center; hich would give the students who are against the off-campus ri nl< a ore substantial argument than they have been using so far, bu tudents who are against the idea of the rink didn't even questicn tow that conversion would come about. Nowhere is there a debate bout what to change 'A. chilies ·into, and the costof converting an ice ink has yet to come to the table. . Students are so adamant about not inoving the dnk off camJ>us · hat they did not even look for the key points that would sup]Jo heir argument. So far all that has been said is that fans won't be safe alking to and from the games and there would no I anger be a\ heme 'ce\. At the RPI game it was a clear advantage to play in Acllilles., ut over the weekend students were the minority population in tlle tands. There were more families and visitors from the commttnity · up porting our Division 1 team. If students want their opinicn t() be ali dated, they might just wantto attend more than just the RPI game. The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 18 77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Adrian MacLean, Anthony C. LaVecchia, EDITORS-IN-CHIEF David Pinkowitz Diana Sedita tXECUTJVE EDITONS Conor McKenzie MANA(i/N(I EDITOR Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EJJlTOR Aileen Quigley ASS/,\,\J'ANT NEWS HlJ!TOR Larry Paska ARTS& ENTERTAINMENT F.DITOR Laurie Kirschner PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Gasthalter Chris Leone SPORTS EDITORS Suzanne Do11gher1y' GLOBAL NEW..C) EDJTOJ? Chris Leone LAYOUTEJ)J1YJR Tatiana Co~evina Andy Fradkin COMPU1TiR MANAGI£R Jared Richman h'JJITORIAL ( .'ARTOO!VJSt Scott Sculli{)n FACUL1Y ADVISOR Raquel Millmiln FEA Tl!RES ED!1'0RS Amy DiBattista Jennifer.Pelose COPY EDITORS PH07VGJW'HERS: Rick Lederer, Michelle Brick, Maria Guillle, Laurel Ruma STAFF: Josh Adams, Anjali Balasingham, Kelen Barr, Jamie Chandler, Kara Christian, Shana Dangelo, Whitney Davis, Branllo11 Declet, Gabriella Dory, Jeff Druzba, Jason El·erett, Peter Farn11nt, Erinn Gregg, Nalini Gupta, Caroline Hepner, Erika Mancini, Bllavani Meduri, Jody Mousseau, Rich Nespola, Michelle Neier, Susan Perry; Frank Rossi, Matt Sandler, Akin Sawyyer, Aaron Sicotte, Michelle Tham, Rawson Thurber, MichelleVanderloon Opinions WE mwe:p• ~OM5 6R~K$ OFF C..AftlPUS i •• -- ....... Union Students: Hard-Working and Cultured ******SARCASM ALERT******** by To:\Y LaVecchia Editor-i~t-Chief Union College, and its fine, open-minded student body, never cease to amaze 111e. Here we are, attending an institute of \higher learning.\ we come here, or so I've heard, to become educated. I suppose over the years I have somehow come to associate the teFJ11s education and thinking. Why is-it then that this place is usually so devoid of any real thought? It often appears that Union students are stumbling their way through four years here, sure in the fact that their opinions and values are absolutely correct. Open mindedness must be a dirty word around here. I have often stumbled across this type of intellectual in my classes and affairs here. Dare I say, our culprit is generally conservative, white, upper-class and thoroughly idle in the area of thinking. If I had a dollar for every time I've heard the following sentiment: \These damn Do ids are so uncultured and lazy,\ I could afford to buy some of my own values. What we have here is an interesting accusation coming from a rather distinguished group of students, thinkers and workers. Let me first address the accusation that members of the Schenectady community, who it seems we often deem to be members of a lower uncultured. Odd, l can remember stamting next to the Humanities building and watching as droves of\Doids\ assembled to watch a concert of classical music. It seems as though our CLtltured Union Students, clearly members of the Intelligentsia, must have been oft' participating in s<>me sort of much more cultured and civilized activity-perhaps our sophisticated cohorts were off forming exclusive organizations or funneling beer until they couldn't see straight. On my other point, my conservative Republican friends are inclined to point out that the socioeconomic malice of the poor, and Schenectady's crumbling industries, can be blamed on laziness. Well, I can think ofno group of people who, as a whole, are more hardworking or have overcome more hardship than Union students. Ofcourse, this sarcasm doesn't apply to all Union st1:1dents. Many work hard, struggle, and sacrifice to be here. Ironically, itseemsthattllis group of students is the least I ikely to make asinine, self-righteous observations about Schenectady's residents. The accusation that the poor are lazy is always ridiculous, but it is particularly absurd when it is being made by a 19-year-old who has probably never worked a real day in their life, and in all likelihood has everything they own handed to them by their socioeconomic class, are parents. So, this brings me to the crux of my point; how much time does the average Union student take to think carefully about their political and philosophical views? From some of the conversations I have overheard, I would venture to say not very much. How many times can a thoughtful person regurgitate the same tired political views? I do not harbor some sort of disdain for.conservatives, (it's more along the lines of quiet pity I suppose) but simply question how many people here are conservative because they have truly thought about it. I havethe utmost respect for anyone who arrives at their own set of beliefs through careful thought and consideration, no matter what their conclusion. I'm afraid that too often Union students don't view their tiine here as an opportunity to develop or change their views, but rather as a time to protect their own little paranoid beliefs against the infiltration of the evil liberal propagandaof most of the faculty and communist columnists like myself So I will conclude by issuing a challenge to my peers. Instead of reading this article and thinking what a self-righteous big-headed jerk Tony LaVecchia is (these adjectives may apply), put down the .J.Crew catalog, turn down Rush Limbaugh, and try considering if what I have said here has a grain of truth to it. Letters Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addre&sed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed and saved on a high density disk although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, ifthe writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion ofthe Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns, or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. · Advertisements appearing in The Concordien.~i.\' do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensi.ds printed by World Media, 1104 Central A venue, Albany, NY, 12205. The Concord'iensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News. Service, & King Syndicates. - L p fl \' tl A ft s: ti tt it ( a ti ti v tl ( b C' b L a t< b s~ \' a c s n 1 c 1 a 11 c ti

Page 7 · February 6, 1997 · mri·l' <.!Ionrnroirnsi~ . · · , . OP/JLD . ' ' ' Oplnions The WayWe Were--A Mention of Beer and Sex By Jared Ri<;hman Staff Cartoonist Any mention of tradition at UnionCollegewouldnotbecom- plete without a word ortw(). about fraternities, though some people would have more choice words than others to describe them. After all, we are the \'mother of fraternities,\ though this is con- sidered to be a dubious distinc- tion by some. When the oppor- tunity arises to lay claim to found- ing an institution as old as the Greek society, it ought to become a point of pride. Yet for some time, the fraternities and sorori- tiesof America have taken some very harsh criticism for every- thing from discrimination to al- coholism and even death. Good God, all this over a couple of beers and some casual sex? Of course, the issue is much more complicated than that (what about bong hits?), Ifthe fratemities at Union wish to continue enjoying a long existence, they may have to take a look at where they have been. Before Hale House (predeces- sor to Westand Upperclass)there were no dining halls on campus and students were forced.byne- cessity to seek meals in lovely Schenectady (back in the day it really was quite lovely I'm told). The only on campus facilities for cooking were in the fraternities. Thus, the fraternity house began as a necessary eating establish- ment for members. It grew to in- clude housing and social activi- ties, which are now the primary functions. There was a time when mem- bers of fraternities were consid- ered the very best members of the college community, the leaders, both in academics and on the sports field, and even in deport- ment (though beer pong and chugging are certainly diffic;ult skills, I don't think they still qualify as athletic), Pride, in their college first, their class second, and their organization third, pro- vided a unified hierarchy and loy- alty which is seldom seen at the. Union of 1997. To understand the contrast in the fraternity .of the past and of today, I provide the following passage from C. Will- iam Huntley's \Thirty Years in ~he Life .of a College\ The fraternities, as we saw them in the /ate forties, were well- mannered and care for. generally well-behaved. and the members shared a pride in their associa- tion Faculty and administrative couples were frequently invited for dinner andusually this was a very pleasant experience. One lookedforward to going to the Psi U house with its handsome din- ing room furniture. shown to good advantage with candlelight, or joining hands with the men of Kappa Alpha to sing ''Our Hearts are Thine, KA. \1 Compare those images to these: .. . not long ago 1 was invited to one of the stronger houses for lunch. Few men greeted me or spoke as 1 entered. There were no longer any curtains in what had been a handsome living Attention! room, an as! was looking about. .a basket ball whizzed past me. · When it came time to eat, every- one hurried into the dining room. leaving me standing alone. But the reallydevastaUng blow came at the endoflunch. when two stu- dents carried a large garbage- can between the tables and t?V- eryone scraped his leftovers into the can.l With rush at its conclusion, I urge the current and future mem- bers ofthe Greek system to .eval u- ate the state of their .respect.i ve organizations. Respect is not a God given right; it must be earned. The Greek soc.ieties could be a great source of posi- tive student activism, and not just token philanthropy or sources of free beer. Once, the fraternities of Union College were consid- ered a point of pride for all the college community, including alumni and parents. Of co1;1rse, not all ofthe societies are repre- sentative of the preceding com- tr).ents. With the creation oftheme houses, Greek societies run the risk of extinction , replaced by college sponsored, less contro- versial , public relations dream houses. Fraternities are an inte- gral partofUnionCollege's first 200 hundred years ofhistory and tradition. Will they be a part of the third? Comments? We all have them. Tell yours to someone who 'II care. 1 These passages were taken from Thirty Years in the Life of a College, by C. William Huntley, Union College Press, Schenectady, 1985. Huntley was a student (Class of '34), professor, and administra- tor of the College for over 30 years. An Answer to ''s·· · · R. h '' . orortty · us ..• In response to last week's ar- ticle by Shalini Sood, entitled \Sorority Rush; Changes Need to be Made,\ I fully agree that yes, the sorority rush system is not perfect. However, I also believe that the article portrayed rush in a very mislead i.ng manner. Firstly, Ms. Sood began by stat- ing that it was her \mission\ to \tlnd out what the real deal was on sorority rush.\ At this point, the reader should begin to ques- tion her objectivi-ty and i'ntent. Further, she reveals that \even though she had not gone through rush in her freshman year, she still had heard a lot of stories ... \ Per- sonally, that does not seem like an unbiased standpoint to me. Also, as a sorority sister, the whole idea ofher mission really disturbs me. I went into rush with a very sincere and positive atti- tude as J welcomed her into my \home and for her to go into it with false pretenses is wrong. Ms. Sqod goes on to cite pair- ing ol'f a sister with a rushee and further introductions to sisters as a \fiasco.\ If this process of meet- ing people is considered a fiasco, then why participate in rush in the first place? We have foutld this process of meeting people to be the most efficient way tor us as sisters to meet as many women as possible. Further, she goes on to point out the tedio 1sness of waiting in front of the houses for roll call and the extreme \tem- perature of ~20.\ Firstly, the tem- perature was not -20, and sec- ondly, the houses have no control over the weather. Additionally, let us look at the fact that our rush .involved only 3 sororities while other schools have involved more than 20 thereby making their rush a two week long event. This is a nationwide process and has been found to be the most effective, especially in compliance with Panhellenic rules. In looking at rush from both sides (I participated as a rushee and later as a sister) it is impor- tant to recognize that although the waiting can be stressful for some women, it does not need to be, and the process does go both ways. The rushee is not powerless. She has a choice in accepting her in- vitation or not and in the attitude with which she participates in generaL The pressure is self- made. Rush is a very personal experience It is essentially what you make of it. If Ms. Sood found tt to be \superficial and offensive\ then that personal problem should not be generalized to portray rush in that manner. Sincerely, Michelle VanderLoon O.J. Over Bill I don't know about you but it seemed a little sad that the veridict ofthe 0..1 Simpson civil trial took precedence over the State of the Union Address. Most radio and telivison stations were covering the Simpson verdict even before the pia inti ffs and defendant arrived in the court house. There was some consolation tnough. Every now and then, various stations pulled away to show some highlights of the presidents address. The major networks even managed to spare some time to show some live footage ofthe State of the Union Address. I don't know about you, but the state of the country is a lot more • important than the fate of a single citizen. Sincerely, Akinwunmi Sawyerr Last Day to Withdraw from Courses Friday - February 14th An Urge To Take Men In Black Seriously E-MAIL ADDRESSES FOR SUBMISSIONS E-Mail Us at Concordy @gar.union.edu .. All E-mail submissions must be recieved by 5 PM the Monday before publication, and must be less than ·soo words. Please see the Opiniol'ls policy on the opposite page for more details. L~.-. -~ --- .• - -· • -- ___ _._-- __ - 9 -- ..__ •• - -- ----- 9- - •.,------ - - Many of us have seen the re- cent advertisements for the up- coming movie, \Men in Black\ starring Tommy Lee Jones and Will Smith. I would like to point out the fact that the Mert in Black, or \MIBs\, should not be a sub- ject of humor. In fact, they are part of an extremely bizarre group of phenomena that we classifY as \supernatural\ or \paranormal\ and forget about. The Men in Black, according to current theories, are either a government group, or an alien group, or both. They are short, pale men, dressed in black suits They tend to wear lipstick. They have very strange mannerisms- for example, they will examine everyday objects as if they had never seen them before. Their manner of speech is stilted and odd. Most MIB sightings either im- mediately precede or follow UFO sightings. In one noted case, two MIBs arrived at the fannhouse of a man who, the evening betore, had seen strange lights in the night sky The urged him not to report his sightings, and made veiled threats. It \vas only after they had left that the man remem- bered that he hadn't yet told any- one of what he had seen. How did they know to talk to him? A more sinister MIB sighting came just after the Kennedy as- sassination. Many witnesses claimed afterwards that they were interrogated by government agents dressed all in black, and who refused to identify them- selves. The FBI, CIA, and Secret Service all denied having inter- rogated these witnesses. Some students ofthe unknown claim that the MIBs are govern- ment agents involved in high- level cover-ups of alien activity and other sensitive operations, such as assassinations. Others believe the MIBs to be alien op- eratives on Earth, possibly work- ing for the Grays, the almond- eyed figures made popular by the novel and movie Communion. Until we know more about the MI Bs and their agenda, I suggest that we should not allow humor- ous movies to sway our opinion. Some would argue that the movie is itself a MIB plan to mock their ().pponents, or to \hide in plain sight\ in much. the same way as the Bavarian llluminati have been doing for decades. I make no such c.laim. It is quite possible that the MIBs are simply the product of paranoid minds, connecting any figure in a black suit with a hypo- thetical global conspiracy. On the other hand, i fthere is any truth to the stories, the world may be a far stranger place than any of us can imagine. Alexander C. Beckers J t 1ii o , 1, •, t · ;1_ ! ~ ;o ~ • ,I t ' • 1· .fl ' ~ jo. ll • ' ' t \ • • I 1 f I:. ,. ! j; ~\ .. V. f'\ 'r .Itt 1:1' ;r:-o;a 1\t \t 'J, 'i-~·'t• 'W' '<e\ ;~;- J! · IE F- ::JC· 7 >ill:... .l ... .t. 1' .-~ ;:~--.... ~:\\;. ~-; )I\ Y' ~ -'1:\ -1 Z • .f .• ..r'~ 6. 2', <IF ~ .Jl 'J

. - . ' . ' Page 8 · February 6, 1997 · 'illl~c <!Iuttcorb'iensis Features Well, we're gearing up for mid- terms and we definitely can say that we are a little nervous. This is the real thing. Ali that procras- t.inating you have done is sud- denly stuck like a huge roadblock in front of your face. · But that does not keep us from another weekend offun. We're partying HARDCORE yet completely in control. Only on Sunday did we realize that we have to face the upcoming week ftom hell. Not to mention that it is hard to apply yourself whe11 you are ill. It seems the whole Union campus has been stricken by a violent cough. Allwecansuggestisthat you take someNyquil and refrain from sucking face. Nothing a few beers can't handle. In accordance to the outbreak of sickness at Union College, we must say that the health care sys- tem leaves much to be desired. It seems to be that Tylenol is their wonder dmg. And believe us, this isn't even the rea] thing~ it's ge- neric. We can also tell you that if you want to see the doctor you might have to wait all afternoon, if he is even here that day. Basi- cally, what we're saying is try not to get sick. If you do,just SUCK IT UP and deal because crying about it won't help (we tried). Last weekend brought many recruits to our campus. They were so I ucky to be on tours when rnost people were still asleep re- covering from the night before. Or there were those students who were gingerly walking home af- ter never really going to bed. Contrary to what parents on the tours think, these students aren't up early because they have been doing homework! Cocktail parties are a crucial part of the weekend. The parties are lots of fun; that is if you're even ~ucky enough to get invited. They just make for an early night oronethat'scompLetelyOUTOF CONTROL!!! But don't get us wrong, there's no shame getting your groove on either on the dance floor or on the bar. Just make sure that you don't slip on the beer that everyone is throw- ing on you. And whatever you do, don't drink the tequila that your date has stashed in his room. It's fine until it comes back up the next morning! Even better is getting • sick in the middle ofaphol'le con- versation to your parents. What you did last night is no longer a secret Sunday is still hands down the worst day of.the week. Even if you are lucky enough not to be hung over, doing wotk is defi- nitely not an option. It's a time for people to remind you what stupid things you may have said and done the nig~t before. Can't people just forgive you for being drunk? ICs funny how much friendlier we get after we have chugged a few. Suddenly we have instanta- neous friends. I'm talking about people that not only refrain trom saying hi when they see you around campus, but would also . not even notice you in broad day- · light. But we realize it's finally time to face reality. After all, the upcoming weekend is not that far away. Just go to r.;lass and do a • little work ·in between. It shouldn't be that bad. Of course there's always MONDAY NIGHT. .. Goin' Completely _Postal by Jeff~ry Druzba Staff Writer Working in a mailroom sharp- ens one's t1ose for observation, and Union's mailroom is no ex- ception to that fact. I've worked in the mailroom i'lere on campus for a few of our past breaks, and I can say that, under a constant t1ow of addresses and zip codes, one slowly starts to notice things ... patterns ... certain reliable consistencies. This former mail- man is ready to release his dis- coveries. Be wamed--what fol- lows may be scary. more subtle than just taking over. This time, the \evil ones\ are be- coming part of our I ittle culture first, and then they're going to eliminate us. Keep your eyes open on those Needham types. I swear that there are enough people from Needham to form their own theme house--Needham House. Oh, yes, that does seem to have a nice sound to it. 2. The stereotype of England is that it's all about beer. It is not a stereotype~ it is the truth. Every postcard I've ever seen from En- gl3nd is either a picture of beer or a sce11e showing what lengths to which people will go to get their beer. You can bank on the fact that if you know someone in England, and that person sends you a postcard. it's going to be of beer. that area are seemingly exotic. I'm not only talking about people from other countries either. Think about someone here at Union who is from say, Califor- nia orTexas-~exotic, no? You're at dinner with them, and you ask things such as, \Do they have hamburgers where you're from?\ You talk slowly so that they un- derstand you. People from Cali- forilia and Texas must think, that we're idiots up here. At least we're not Canadian. That's about it. Two winter breaks and one sum mer vacation in the mail room, and that's all that I have learned. Maybe that's the scariest part ofthe whole experi- ence. This was an independent mailroom too. Think about the things that U.S. Postal workers must think about. It's no wonder that they've got so many prob- lems. rh·urbervtlle by Rawson Thurber Occasionally l fear that I might tun out of materia'! for this .col- umn, but aU I need tClcure the «maybe tliis place isn't so ridiculous'' blues is to attend a Crdsstalk. This past Wednesaay, I was lucky enough to be among the many audience members v.rho witnessed your buddy and mine, President Roger Hull, repeatedly repeat himself. Apparently the handicapped spaces I wrote aboLit last week are. for the m(lny hearing unpaired students on campus~ because Mr. Hull began nearly every sentence with, \Let me say again, student opinion is very important to me.\ Fellow students, talce l~eart! President Hull u.sed those same wor.ds when discussing the «meal plan\ in the Spring of '95; and we aH know how well that worked out fo.- us-. ·so, fear not! For those of you v.rho weren't at the Crosstalk, let me give you a brief synopsis. Chet' s was packed with concemed and upset stu- dents, and President Hull ar1swered question after question with a similar monotone response. Eventually this tactic worked. The Union students, a generation weaned on sound-byte infonnation and the · instant gratification of the lntemet, coufd no longer withstand the barrage of' nonsensical double-talk, thus they slowly but surely left; ears ringing with dullness and betrayal. Unfortunately tho.se who leftearly miss~d the greatest \Hull-ism\ of the night. When explaining why he doesn't want to make deci- sions without student input, our president, a graduate of the Yale Law School, no less~ had this to say: \I don't smoke, l don't plan to smoke, I'm not going to start smoking cigars or something, and that's why l don't want to make decisions in a smoke fitled room.\· Go Bulldogs! President Hull deserves to be president-! ike Homer Simpson deserves to be a safety inspector. Balding Loser, and Homer Simpson So without further adieu, here is this week's Top Ten List: Top Ten Rejected CrossTalk Discussion Topics 10. Should Prostituti<>n Be Work Stttdy? 9. The Fro-Yo Machine: Tasty Snack Dispenser or Biblical False Idol? 8. Should the Nott Be Turned Into the First-Ever 16-Sided Slip <n' Slide? 7. Should the heat be turned up in ShatTer Library? 6. President Hull: Villainous Overlord or Village ldiot 0 5. Necrophilia: Pro or Con? 4. Should Rohypnol be on Validine? · 3. Should the College Center elevator be replaced with more efficient rope-ladder? 2. Should Dutch Hollow employees be replaced by the '<Hooter's\ Girls? I Eliphalett Nott: Union's Greatest Alumnus or Closet Pedofile? Studentojtlte Week:- . This week's winner is the brave, daring, and victorious Christine Bower. Ms. Bower was the only solo act this past Saturday at ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-k~~~~~~~~~~~~~Union'sflr~mnu~'~ModRocl.\S~H~ilie~mdin~rornn- M emory Tri c s only crowd into a frenzy with her slickly choreographed rendition of Dee-Lite's \Groove is in the heart\. Not only was she the best I . There is an unusual amount of people from Needham. Mas- sachusetts attending Union Col~ lege. I'm convinced that there is a movement underway to take over Union and to turn it into yet another oftheir ho Jd ings. There's some sort of Independence Day scheme going on, except it's a lot 3. Union is so doniinated by students from the Northeast re- gion that students from outside A Drama with a Sense of Humor \Mock Rocker,\ but she also won $100. So, if you need some quick cash, you know who to steal from. Written and Performed by, Marga Gomez Saturday, February 8 8:00P.M. Old Chapel Reception Wil1 Follow Mixing comedy with drama, Marga Gomez offers a poignant reflection of her eccentric upbronging in Sixties Harlem -with her flamboyant showgirl mother during the ara of Manhattan's legendary Latino entertainment sc,ene. Marga rei ives her attempts to connect with her mother in her heyday and during her illness. Frank Rich of the New York Times said: \This is a funny and touching stage auto- that sllDws off its as both an actress and WI~iter of serious promise.\ Quesions? Concerns? Hate Mail? S.O.W. Nominations? write Rawson Thurber Box #2018!! The Concordiensis Next Meeting Thursday, 7:00 PM I '\\\ n ar b d: G g. F ki Lll el IT sl s~ e1 ei S( ri ei g< lc i: fc fc -; fc \1 n \1 0 tl a a e lt 0 a 11 il a p ti v e u ~ t; ]I a tl 11 c v 11 n a g t s t f d l \ e e ~

Features _ - - · - · _ Wl~e <!llnirnrhiet~sis • February 6, 1997 • Page 9- The Eighties Revisited by Raquel Millman Features Editor After spending last Saturday night with .the brothers ofTDChi and the sisters ofTri- Delta, I was brought back to my childhood days of wafrting to_ be. \'Jessie's Girl\ and being one ofthe many g.irls who. \Just Wimna Have Fun.\ I was _embarrassed that I knew every word to every song, until I realized, so did everyone else!. After telling a friend ~bout my night and what a blast I had, she showed me the following pas- sage. I felt that after the week- end showed me how much fun the eighties were; I wanted to remind everyone of the_ decade that we so often forget. Enjoy the memo- ries and the journey back in tirne. We ate the children of the eighties. Weare not the first \lost generation,\ nor are we today's lost generation. fn fact, we think by E.W. Abbott, III Contributing Writer that we know just where we stand --or we are discovering it as we speak. We are the ones who pl!iyed with Lego Building Blocks When they were just build- ing blocks and who gave Malibu Barbie crew-cuts with safety scis- sors that neverreally cut. W-e col~ lected Garb~ge Pail Kids, Cab- bage Patch Kids, My Little Po- nies, Hot Wheels, and He-Man action fig1:1res; and I thought that She\Ra looked-just a little bit 1 ike I would when: I became a woman. Big Wheels and bicycles with streamers were the way to go, and sidewalk chalk was all that you needed to build a city. Imagina- tion was the key. It made the Ewok Tree House big enough for you to. be Luke :;tnd the kitchen table and an old sheet dark enough to be a tent in the forest. Your world was the backyard, and it was all you needed. Debbie Gibson sang backup to you from yot_tr 'pink portable tape player, an alarming rate. Is the death of Jon Benet really more important than the report that one out of lsawarobilatoday. Well, tobe seven African American males exact, I saw eleven, all sitting con- cannot vote due to restrictions re- ·tentedly in front of the Reamer suiting from conviction? Center, worming. Union College Union is a school that is tabloid- is an oasis in a foreboding world driven_ The rumor mill nms at all for these birds. It is very similar times, without a foreman to over- for the students at Union College- see it. Granted, Union is not the -a rest stop for a brief period be- Ginsu 11 of educational institutions, fore we must go back int<> the real meaning we are not the sharpest world. We are protected from knives in the drawer, but our little most of the nastiness of the real microcosm of society is a living, world. It is not that we are with- breathing New York Post head- out our own problems, it is just line. We are told by the faculty that the problems we experience and staff that we are the leaders of are often trivial when one looks the future, but like robins, we are at therh on a larger scale. generally content to be safe, allow- As the college, and the world, ing ourselves to consume what- eeks slowly towards the new mil- ever comes our way. lennium, it is faced with a variety We are sometimes afraid to con- of issues. Some are trivial, such front issues that are foreign to us, as the Reamer Center circle or the but it is our duty to make ourselves need for a new rink, but they are' ~ mote aware of the issues that are important to us, and this personal attachment gives them more im- portance. Students at Union ar~ excep- tional in many ways and doing wonderful, interesting things. My experience is that few students ate uncomfortable with the idea of. forcing change and erasing or forcing boundaries. While this al- lows us to be safe in our oasis, it also presents a dilemma for the fu- ture. White the world catches up to the United States, America needs more intellectual boundary- crossers who are capable of pro- viding a fresh solution to old di- lemmas. These dilemmas have not been solved by the \party line\ and those who mouth it. Analo- gous to this is the over-prescrip- tion of antibiotics, which leads to strains of illnesses with immuni- ties to antibiotics; the problems facing America in the future are developing similar immunities. While we concentrate on mat- ters that do not really affect our lives, the issues of importance go unnoticed. Whether ot not O.J. will be fined is much more inter- esting for many than that the life expectancies of populations in poor urban areas are decreasing at corrupting society and to organize to stop the bleeding of our soci- etal lifeblood. The citizens-ofthe United States are lucky. We do not suffer from a great amount of po- litical oppression, and hunger and disease are at manageable levels, but things could change in an in- stant. The world around us needs removal ofthe cancers that pervert it. At Union, we have great oppor- · tunities to create change, if we are willing to fight for it. As our minds stagnate, the world around us decays. If we institute better- ment as a goal, the values of soci- ety will change. Changing the world starts with changing our- selves, and appreciating all that we have been given and the chances that we have had. We can be those little robins in February in Schenectady, or we can become students of the issues ofthe world and the voices of change in a place that is sometimes unable, or un- willing, to accept the inevitability of revolution. Change starts with Union and its community. When we Ignore ·the superfluous, and concentr~te on the substantial, ev- erything and everyone will be bet- ter. and everyone wanted a skirt like the Material Girl and a glove like Michael Jackson's. Today, we arethe ones who sing along with Bruce Springsteen artd to The Bangles perfectly and have no idea why. We recite Jines with- the Ghostbustersand still look to The Goonies for a great adven- ture. We flip through TV statiens and stop at The A~Temn, Knight Rider, and Fame, and we laugh with The Cosby Show an_d Fam- ily Ties and Punky Brewster and \What yo1:1talkin' 'bout, Willis?\ We hold strong affections for The M uppets amd The G uinmy Bears; and why did they take the Smurfs off the air? After-school specials were only about cigarettes and step-families, the Polka Dot Door was nothing like Barney; and aren't the Power Rangers just Voltron reincamated? Wearethe ones who still read Nancy Drew and the Hardy Boys, the Bobsey Twins, Beverly Clearly and Judy 1:1 ' II .. , Q v \ ,, ( ---~ - v (. 0 l I ' (, Blume, Richard Scary, and the Electric Cornpany. Friendship bracelets. were ties you couldn't break, ami friendship pins went on shoes.:.. preferably high-top Velcro Reeboks--and pegged jeans were in, as were Units bdts, layered socks,jeanjackets,jams, charm necklaces, side p()nytails, and just tails. Rave was a girl's best friend. Braces with colored mbber bands made you C()ol. The back door was always open and Mom served only red K:ool-Aid to the neighborhood kids--we never drank New Coke. Enter- tainn~ent was cheap and lasted for hours A II that you needed to be a princess was high heels and an apron_ The Sit 'ti' Spin always made you dizzy but never made you stop. Pogoballs were danger- ous weapons, and Chii1ese Jump Ropes never failed to trip some• one. In your UnderoosycHI were Wonder Woman or Spider Man or R2D2, and in your tree house l I { ) u .. lr-- -- -o \ I c. TJ.ro')( r stc~t -;a~J $\'~~~~··. (. . Not\-• I\' <J v (- you were king. · In the eighties, nething was wrong. Did you know .the presi- dent was shot? Star Wars was not only a movie. Did you ever play in a bomb shelter? Did you see the Challenger explode or feed the homeless man? We forgot Vietnam and watched Tiananman Square on CNN and bought pieces of the Berlin Wall at the store. AIDS was not the number- one killer in the United States. We didn't start the fire, Billy Joel In the eighties, we redefined the American Dream, and those years defined us. We are the genera- tion in between strife and facing strife and not turning our backs. The eighties may have made us idealistic, but it's that idealism that will push us and be passed on to our children--the first chil- dren of the twenty-first century Never forgetthat we are the chi 1- dren of the eighties. '(. I ' ~· l J (_' l L.-~ I I \ '\.., c j. -~ v : ~ J' y \ ~- \'~~· .. 1 G ' 1[/ . 0 0 0 l' u u v It\._. ... tl.,..il.,f. e (' (__; It Takes the Sniffles to Call Home by Michelle Tl-.am Features Staff -It seems sort of silly_ With all the independence that's been af- forded to us as big college girls ·and boys, a stuffY nose and a sore throat shouldn't send us running weepy-eyed to call mom. Butthat seems to be the general trend these days as the winter air creeps in through the drafty window into our already tired, weary lungs. Once that dreaded illness invades your quiet dorm room, it's n-ot long before the entire hall is cranky and sporting 111atching boxes ofPuffs Plus. It's funny, mom anddadarethe last thing on your mind when it· s 2:30AM and you're dancing on your bed listening to \Watkin' on Sunshine\ rather than writing a paper. Somehow, being sick brings all those 6-year old clingy emotions back. The sniffles make Sorry, broad shouldered football players beg for chicken soup and some- one to tuck them in bef-ore bed. Getting sick sort of keeps us grounded, reminding us that de- spite all the 1-rule-my-own-life self assertion, we still need our parents for a few things. Like to tell us tl1atorange juice is good for an ouchy throat and that we should just go to sleep and forget about our genetics reading just this once. Maybe it's just the fact that wearing a jacket slips our minds once in a while even though it's- 17 degrees outside. Or maybe we forget that yes the human body does require more than 3 hours of sleep a night. Either way, we get sick fast and hard in the win- ter without parents to keep us in line. And once the enemy virus has attacked the people around you, no amount of Vitam in Cpills (even ifyoutakethe-wholebottle) can stop the dreaded in\aSJ,•!·. ,·:· those germs. Of course once we gt~ ~ :.::i-.. s.:;.:- pidity seems to sett!t .:·. :.,:,1ng with the coughing and ~:1t.?zirig_ We go out anywa) and .::a.relessly discard our tissue::.. c,nl~ further infecting the rest of (1ur unsus- pecting acquaintances_ We take aspirin I ike candy and listen to our friends when they tell us it's okay to take their antibiotics too ... who cares about the warning label any- way? Yes, us college kids will do anything to get better, after all, the weekend is just around the cor- ner. So how do we overcome the agony of staying in bed while it seems like everyone else gets to go out and play? Suck it up and go to Health Services if you need to. Or worse yet, call your par- ents and actually ask them for advice. It's okay to bug mommy and daddy once in a while. will not appear this week.

To simplv call ,)'tar W£lr-s :~gr~:1t movie or the first cinellla tic~~­ tempt at an amusementparkthrii I ride is to gloss over the til'rrt's:irn- portant cultural impact r~.o r all mtcnt•s and purposes, s,'tar :f1'ar.'i ~the first movie arcade l:J31ne, the first mass-merchandisirtg tilin event with toy, hook~ and M~.:DonakJ's glassware: crl:Jss- overs, and perhaps one of ttle first films to become more tl!an a nn> \IC-gomg expcri~nc c for Am eric a, hut an \event\ in. itself rhc reissue ofthc trilo,gyover the ncx t two months is prov-·1Jing: a lot of food for critics t() digest. Surprisingly, cnlumni-;t>. :uro~:-; the country have not been terri- hi) reccpti\C to the rcJ.ssuc, largely because it isseefla:sa ... my to further exploit the $4 bi IIi un,~lus industry created by the trii,bgy. llowever, critics overlooi<CJlle key point. the pub! ic 1s buy1ng JiltCJ it The film is reverting hac I< t\vo dc- cadt:s and makmg Star r.fors1eel htantl-new all over again S Ia nd- ing in line for the fil-m <t1 its f!re- m iere. I saw one person \Vh«l ~ad purchased a Return o{ .t!u~ ..ledi cohmng book. I had that SIIJnc hook \\hen I \\as eight Yc:~r~old If< lcorge l.ucas wants l!l \'rmgus hack to the thnll of the til m sag:.ai n (and he can make a ton <lfln onev m the process), so be 1t. Jed i .I harbor fond childhood memories of watching the trilogy, c.alle:ctin_g thet.ays, and reading the ~ornics. I, for one, am delighted t() .see th:e original film on a big scree:n~ as my memories of the first in:stall- men tin theaters are rather :s!Jiotty. It is one thing to re-releas~ a significant film, and quitean()tiJer to play with one's memories of a film oy making alteratiotts t() it. Star Wars is full of\creatiV'e tink- ering\ which in the end mal<es the reissue a novelty item tn!lt .doe!i not feel quite as the or:iginale:xpe- rience did George Lucaswamted to redo many special effect~ a.nd Top Five Films Returns to Theaters incorporate digital scmnd into the soundtrack, because he felt that two decades ago the techn<~logy was not avai.fablc to make Star Wars the best 11 could be This is true, nevertheless, I always ar- gue that, for a li lm made m I 977, .\itur Wars is pretty darn spec- tacular Sure, spaceship explo- s 1 o n s looked a little hokey, but have erably. Severa)! new shots are added of spaceships, and a few lines are deleted, which only the most diehard of fans will notiet,.! On thedesertplanet,most of the new footage includt:s com- puter-animated bcasts(kn~nvn as Rontos), on which computer, ani~ mated Imperial Stonntroopersride. A large beast also flings a tew results of this effort are best One ()ther added scene in- cludes I ,ukc Skywalkcr meeting his frier1d from home, Biggs, on the rebel base. This ten-second exchange of pleasantries adds .nothing, t:spcciaHy since Biggs becomes toast during the space hattie !\mung tlw pleasant addi~ tions to the ~cenery are more ar- tistic sunsets on Tatooine, featur- ing stars in the dis- tance and thev reallv 1m proved that dram alb cally With the · l)(Js computer- JL.cd addJ- tions'1 The Death Star explosion in the onginal p r i n t The film is reverting back two decades and making Star Wars fee/brand-new all over again; standing in line for thefilm at its premiere, I saw OJle person who purchased a Return ofthe Jedi coloring book. deeper shades of browndur- Jn,g t h ~ sunset over the Jawa's r o c k y dwellings where R2- D2 he- seemed far more over- whelmmg to me than in this new. equallv-short shot lfmu're go- ing to redo such scenes '90s- st\'ll'. take the screen time to hurl chunks nfthc space station right at the camera The original Star Wors is an achJc\ cment, if fin no other rca- son than for its rrl iance on th1ngs other than computer graphics The monstrous uni- mals on the desert planet of Tatooine are real on earth, but they are dressed up to look alien. Chewbacca's sounds are actu- ally those of a bear. C-3PO was not computer animated -there was an actual person in that claustrophobic suit! The film was exceedingly low-budget for its time, yet Luc.as pulled to- gether a pretty impressive film, both visually and in terms of story. The legends and tales as- sociated with the series are too numerous to tell, so I will stick with the changes made in this \special edition\ and explain why they eitherworkor fail mis- Jawas off of it in a humorou::. ad- dition to the Mos Lisle) span:- port sequence It is in this space- port\\ here the greatest nwhhcr of .changes occur more hideous cre;uures are added in the !'>ad.:- ground. more StormtroopL'rs arc milling ahout, and Han SolD has his highh-touted meeting with a Jahha the llutt hack in the monster's l fltra-Siim-Fast days This sequence, deleted because Lucas was not able to makea be- lievable Jabba twer~ty years ago, still isn't very effective. Jabbajust looks too artificial to be convinc- ing- not the menacing presence seen two films later. It is a weakly- executed scene that really de- served to be cut in the first ver- sion. On the other hand, the Mil- lennium Falcon's takeofffrotn the spaceport is more tastefully done, and poor visual-s of Rebel ships as points of light leaving their base are replaced with slow-Jnov- ing X-wing fighters increasing their power towards the stars. It is in the·eifects of ships where the Chart-Toppers comes a slave. T h e s e changes are nice, hut 111 some way, they are nsllall) -stunnmg addi- tions \\h ich do not belong in a crudely-shDt space cp1c .')tar Wars als<.J l1wl the feel qt. a cheap space opera, yet it suspended dis- bellef4uitccffcctJHh Adding deeper touches and leaving the cent err iccl.' intact makes the true action on screen seem d isjointcd In other words, ,)'tar Wars 1s a 1970s filrn with a bit of the 1990s smeared over it, and thus achieves the look of an unfinished film more than a visually-coher- ent piece. It's like those animated Disney tllrn previews when they show clips of both the finished product and the sketches without color and depth. Lucas claims this is the best Star Wars heca.n make, but I believe that he made it better the t1rst time. The special edition is successful in being a curiosity item, satisfy- ing every .one's desire to see their favorite movie memory reworked intheirmi11ds. Butwill itendure through time? The computer-ani- A Quick Look at Wltat's Entertaining America (Week of January 13-January20) Top Five Alb11rn Sales mated add it ions do not fit in with the rest of the scenery; for ex- ample, artificial Storm~roopers glicle too smoothly uff.of ani- mals, d'istracting the audience from the true act.ion on-screen betweenthe leading characters The reissue is important tor many other reasons, including Lucas' cleanup of dirty and scratchy originalprints. The spe- cial edition features an impres- sive digital soundtrack, ~!though, once again, some changes don't work as effectively as intended In the Death Star. Darth Vader uses his powers to nearly choke an obnox1ous officer to death The soumd effect heard is not very impressive- it is the low, deep rllm ble characteristic of DTS s.aund; but I suppose it's more ominous than the quiet whisper hear.d in the original. Nevertheless, Lucas might have wanted more alien-sounding ef- fects at such moments. Some new sound effects, however, don't rnake sense. Why does Princess Lei a's laser pistol sound like1t'slinngotfa 357Magnum inside the Death Star') The best additions to the film arc th~! shots 9f Luke and. his party entering the spaceport They pro,idc greater detail of the nastmess, ofthe place, although the tiny, flying creatures seem like a Disney creation ready to burst out 1n song-- they're too cute to fit in this hideous place. Overall, the special edition is yet another important \event picture\ which deserves a view- ing as a curiosity item. But please don't lose your belief in the power of the first one, $1 0 mill ion in added spaceships, sound effects, and roaring beasts do not a better story make. StarWar.s(1977)- ****(out of four) Star Wars - Special Edition (1997)- ***112 (outoffour) Title I. Beverly Hills Ninja Gross (in millions) $12.2 Gross to date Artist Title- Label Trauma/lnterscope Warner Bros. Capitol 2. Metro 3. Evita 4.TheRelic 5. Jerry Maguire $11.4 $8.9 $7.9 $7.5 Top Five Television Prog~ms Title 1. Seinfeld 2.ER 3. The Naked Truth 4. Friends 5. The Single Guy Viewers (in millions) 37J 35.9 29:9 29.fJ Z<i.9 $23.1 $20.0 $102.8 Last week 1 2 4 I. No Doubt 2. Soundtrack 3. Soundtrack 4, Celine Dion 5. Soundtrack Top Five Vide() Rentals Title 1. Phenomenon: 2. A Time to Kill 3. The Rock 4. Tin Cup 5. Kingpin Tragic Kingdom Evita Romeo and Juliet Falli11glnto You Space Jam Distributor Touch·stone Wamer Hollywoo<;l Warner MGMIUA 550 Music/Epic Warner/Sunset Last week 2 1 3 6

Returns to Theaters To simplv call Star Wars a great mov1t: or the first cmemauc at- tempt at an amusement park thnll nJe IS to gloss over the film's un- portant cultural impact For all 1ntents and purposes, Srar Wars \\as the first movie arcade game. the first mass-merchandising lilm event \\lth toy, hook. and 1\1 cDonald ·s glassware cross- overs. and perhaps one of the first films to hecome more than a tlHl \ I C- g. 0 In g C X per I C 11 C 1: for America. hut an \event\ in itself The reissue of the: trilogy over the t1t::\l tWO months IS providing a lot of food for critics to digest Surpri~1ngh. columnists across the cDuntrv ha vc not he en terri- hi\ receptive to the reissue. I argdy hccause 1t 1s seen as a wav to lilrtherc:xplmt the $4 hill am-plus 1 nJust rv created hv the trilogy llnwc\er.LTltlcso\erlook one kcv p0111t the puhJ1c IS hll\ 111g IIllO it I he film 1s rcvcrtmg hack two de- cade:, and rnak mg Star Wars kcl hrand-nc\\ all 0\t:r again Stand- lilt! in lme for the film at its prc- llllt:rc. I sa\\ nne person \\ho had ru rcli:JSl'J ;t Return 0/ !he .Jed! L·ofonng hook. I had that same hook \\hen I \\as eight vcars old I fC ieorge Lucas\\ ants to hring us hack to the thrill of the films agam land ht.:c~n make a ton ofmonev Ill the process). so he it J cui I harhor fond childhood memones ofwatching the trilogy, collecting the toys, and re:1ding the comics L lor one. am delighted to sec the original film on a hig screen. as mv memories of the first install- ment in theaters arc rather spotty It is one thing to re-rclcasc a significant film. and quite another to play with one's memories of a fi Jm ny making alterations to it S'tar Wars is full of\creativc tink- ering\ which in the end makes the reissue a novelty item that docs not feel quite as the original expe- rience did George Lucas wanted t<l redo many special effects and Top Five Films tncorporate digital sound into the soundtrack. hecausc he felt that two decades ago the technology \\as not available to make ,)'tar Wars the hest tt could he Th1s is true. nevertheless. I always ar- )!Ue that. l(Jr a !i lm made m 1977 .'liar Wars IS rrettv darn spec- tacular Sure. spaceship explo- Sions lool-cd a ltttlc hokcv. hut have erahly Several new shots arc added of spaceships, and a few I ines arc del ctcd, which onlythernostdiehard offanswill notice On the desert pl3net most ofthc new footage includes com- puter-animated hcasts (bmwn as Rontos ). on which com puler-ani- mated Imperial Stonntroopers ride A large heast also 11 mgs a fe\\ resu ks of this effort are hcst CJ ne other added scene 1 n- cludes Luke Skywalker meeting his friend from home, Biggs, on the rellel hase This ten-second excha ngc of plcm:mtrics adds nothing, espcciallv since Biggs heco1nes toast during the space hattl e !\mung the pleasant addi- tions tn the scencn arc more ar- tistic sunsets on Tatoo inc. featur- ing stars in the dis- tance and thcv reallv 1m proved that dratnati- callv \VIth the 'l)()s CUITl puter- 1/.Cd addi- tions') The Death Star explosion 111 the onginal print The film is reverting back two decades and making Star Wars feel brand-new all over again; standing in line for the film at its premiere, I saw one person who purchased a Return of the Jedi coloring book. Jeerer :-.hades ur hrown Jur- tng the sunset over the Jawa's rockv dwellings where R2- D2 he- seemed 1;1r more o\·er- \\ helm mg to me than in this llC\\. ey ually-short shot I fvou 're go- Ing to redo such scenes \l)Os- -,t\lc take the -,crL·en tiinL' to hurl chunks of the space \tattnn ng.ht at the Glmera rhl' original Star lf'ors is an achie\ emcnt. if fnr no other rea- '-'Oil than for its reliance on things other than computer graph 1cs The monstrous ani- mals on the desert planet of Tatooine are real on earth. hut thev are dressed up to look alien. Chcwbacca 's sounds arc actu- ally those of a hear C-3PO was not computer animated- there was an actual person in that claustrophobic suit! The film was exceedingly low-hudget for its time, yet Lucas pulled to- gether a pretty impressive film, hoth \ isually and in terms of story The legends and tales as- sociated with the series are too numerous to telL so I will stick with the changes made in this \srecial edition\ and explain why they either work or fail mis- Jawas off of it in a hunwrom ad- Jitton to the Mos !:isle\ space- port se-yucnce It ts in th1s space- port\\ here the greatest numhcr nf changes nccur more hideous creal urcs arc added in the had- ground more Stormtwopers arc m i llmg ahouL and I I an S<1lo has h1s highl\-touted 1nectmg \\ 1th a Jahha the llutt had; m the monster's l lltra-SI im- Fast Ja\s This sequence. deleted because Lucas was not ahle to make a he- lievable .!abba twenty years ago. still isn't very efkctive Jahha just looks t<Jo artificial to he convinc- ing- 11ot the menacing presence seen nvo !llms later It is a weakly- executed scene that really de- served to be cut in the first ver- sion. On the other hand, the Mil- lennium Falcon's takeoff from the spacep(lrt Is more tastefully done. and poor vJsua}s of Rebel ships as points of light leaving the1r base arc replaced with slow-mew- ing X-wing fighters Increasing their power towards the stars It is in the effects of ships where the Chart-Toppers comes a slave These changes are nice. hut in ~omc\\a). the\ arc \'Isuall:>-stunntng addi- tions \'\hich do not belong in a crudd::--~hnt span· eptc .\tar Wmxaho had the fed of a che~p space ()pera. yet it suspended dis- helil'fLJtiitt: ellectt\el:-. Adding deepc.:r touches and leaving the ccnterplccc intact makes the true actionun screen seem disjointed In otl1er words . . \tar Wars IS a 1970s film with a hit of the I LJ90s smeared over it. and thus achie,'es the look of an unfinished film more than a visually-coher- ent riece. It's like those animated Disney !lim previews when they show clips of both the finished prodmt :1nd the sketches without color and depth. Lucascbims this is the hcstStar Wars he can make, but I helieve that he 1mdc it better the tirst time The special edition is successful in hei 11g a curiosity item, satisfy- ing everyone's desire to see their favorite 1novie memory reworked in their minds But wil I it endure through time' 1 The computer-ani- A Quick Look at What's Entert11ining America (Week of.January 13-January 20) Top Five Album Sales Title Gross (in millions) $12.2 Gross to date Artist Title mated additwns do not fit In with the rest of the scenery, for ex- ample, artificial Stormtroopers glide too smoothly off of ani- mals, distracting the audience from the true action on-screen between the leading characters The reissue is important for many other reasons, including Lucas' cleanup of dirty and scra~chy original prints The spe- cial edition features an impres- Sive digital soundtrack, although. once again. some changes don't work as effectively as intended In the Death Star. Darth Vader uses hts powers to nearly choke an obnoxious officer to death The sound effect heard is not very impressive- it is the lo\v. deep rumhle characteristic of DTS sound~ hut I suppose it's more ominous than the quiet whisper heard in the onginal Nevertheless. Lucas might have wanted more alien-sounding ef- lccts at such moments Some new sound effects. however. don't make sense Win docs Princess Lei a's laser pistol sound I ike it ·s firing off a 357 Magnum inside the Death Star') The hcst additions to the ftlm are the shots of l.ukc and hts party entering the spaceport They provide g.reo.1ter detailoftht.: nastiness of the place. although the tiny, flying creatures seem I ike a Disnev creation readv to - . hurst out in song- they 'rc too cute to fit 111 this hideous place. Overall, the special edition is yet another important \event picture\ which deserves a view- ing as a curiosity item But please don \t lose your belief in the power of the first one $1 0 million in added spaceships, sound effects. and roaring beasts do not a better story make S'tar Wars(l977)- ****(out of four) S'tar Wars - Special Edition ( 1997)- ***I /2 (out offour) Label I. Beverly Hills Ninja 2 Metro $11.4 I. No Doubt Tr::~gic Kingdom Trauma/Interscope 3. Evita $8.9 4. The Relic $79 5 Jerry Maguire $7.5 Top f<ive Television Programs Title J. Seinfeld 2.ER 3. The Naked Truth 4 Friends 5. The Single Guy Viewers (in millions) 37.3 359 29.9 29.6 26.9 $23 I $20.0 $102.8 Last week I 2 4 2. Soundtrack 3. Soundtrack 4 Cel inc Dion 5. Soundtrack Top Five Video Rentals TWe I Phenomenon 2. A Time to Kill 3. The RGck 4. Tin Cup 5. Kingpin Evita Warner Bros Romeo and .lui iet Capitol FaHinginto You 550 Music/Epic Space Jam Warner/Sunset Distributor Last week Touchstone Warner 2 Hollywooc;l I Warner 3 MGMIUA 6

tMt>M.on, f'~r~i.~ ~in~tt:It§ ·-·r,:ttA.loany· ... ., ........ !-... oony. Admission!~ ..... , .... ' . ;, . .,,... .- .- ' •.. ..,...,. ··---~:.i~~i;~,![J;/i_-4., UNION LAUNDRY. 561 NOITST SCHENECTADY NY 12308 (ACROSS FROM WMitJN COLLEGE] OPEN DAILY 8At.1 TO 1 0:30PM FREE DRYING . TUESDAYS I THURSDAYS 8AMT03PM S1 PER WASH. 5TH WASH _.EBEE 7WA~FOR$5, 28 WASHES FOR $20. MAL: (ORDEPOSR' INOUA~80X) THIS AD TO UNION LAUNDRY FOR A FREE WASH~ INCLIJDE w:JUR .iJMIE AND ADORES$. We Care About U Schenectady wants You!· Grab a cup of coffee a11tl meet the van Satur- days at 9 A.M in the CtJllege Center Circle pense, heats up the scene as the New York State Theater Institute continues its 21 . ,.,$~~Pu ..•. Witness,fur..tlttt.PJ·os.ecution. directed by Ralph Allen. is the new ~, ,,:~.: ~::.: .. ~.\;~ ;~J;;t;~ .~~:.~'- · o~ .••• ,.~;,C,;,; \\~·•~'\ ,,\.,;•.,, ·· C ,,: ; •' :· ,,_ •• . w~i~~0uiiiit'sn!S.t:\ste·~~·reiki~~'d~~i::~~~~::~!!;:i~~1:~·ie ., ......... -,~-qat~¢-1)!~,.. - -·~fi,f!.t<y{il~~i!'tj:t:?iLt,_~~~:J-~J.:I!':-::rr~~'ff\' 1 ~~-,.~-,~-:--m 1 : __ 'S_':,.,. . ._. ·- •. .., . •• ·-:: .. i ... _ ... ,_~_ . - •. ~-· • '\-\ -·~\'·~\'\Ya'fluaryT't.::PCIJruruy2~:\''Palntings by GerrfPugiftse Moore~ in the Ups Oafl~. · ·· · - ~ ... ·\'TI-le· Albany Center Galleries are located at the corner of Chapel and Mon _ .. ,,,.,, ··. . . · - 8ir¢etsindowntown.Albi:my ~For more intbnnationcall (518)462-4775. \\' ........ .., 'i-•'.~ .·~··· ., .. ..,-: .... - ... ,\._- .• , ''- . - .. . . - .... -.. ,. ,. , A Gay Fantasia On National Themes by Michelle Jester Contributing Writer If you have stopped by the Yu1man Theater lately, (to check out Prof. Charles Steckler's Stage Design exposition perhaps) you might have noticed in the Act()r's Studio a small group of slightly batty thespians rehears- ing far into the night. Maybe they were making robot noises or speaking of angels, Antarctica, and Valium-induced hallucina- tions. At this point, if you did not flee in fear, you wou.Jd have prob- ably asked yourself ... Don't these people have lives? Well, my an- swer would have to be no, not until seventh week. You see, they are al 1 in the theater for a very . good reason. Senior Emilia Teasdale, with the aid of this dedi- cated merry band of individuals, is presenting for her Senior Project a .staged reading of Tony Kushner's nationally acclaimed Angles in America Part One: Mil- lennium Approaches. It is, as the playwrite calls it, a gay fantasia on national themes. . Ever since the genesis of her career here on this campus, Emilia has dreamed of directing this show at Union. Set in New YorkCity,Angels is a riveting ac- count of relationsilips, politics and ethics in that Garden ofEden affectionately known as Ronald AIDS has begun to make its in- delible impact upon our country and the world The characters in Angels are facing this epidemic along with a load of other pres- sures that go hand in hand with American lite. Amidst the discus- sion of serious themes I ike love, homosexuality and death, Angels is infused with humor and wisdom. In fact, it is almost impossible to go through a page of the script without a laugh or an epiphany. The play is just that cool. Other than the esteemed ge- niusofadirector, Emilia Teasdale '97, the show is presented by Au- tumn Cohen \97 Carey Miller '98, Sarah Morse '97, Doug Schneider '98, Bob Pinkham '97, Gabriela Dory '98, Jon Zandman '99, Ari Gottlieb '99, and[\.![ ichelle Jester '98. It will appear in the Actor's Studio in the Yulman at 7pm on February 14, IS, and 16,1997. THE SHOW IS FREE! So, if you want to make a reservation to ensure your place in the audience of the best production Union has seen since, well, at least last tenn, call the Box Office atx6545. . ..__. ____ \\'\\'=-::-::-::-::-:-::-::-::~~\\\\'=~-::-!'~~~~~~-:-:~\'=\'- _ ~~a_gfln ·~ A.ll'!erica. _It ~s) 98~ aqd_ ... -.,.,.

I..©Cal Arts Calendar OPENSTODAY Works by Capital Region craftspeople are among the more than 200 works by contemporary craftspeople from across New York State selected for exhibition in Contemporary New York State Crafts. the first comprehensive exhibit of contem- porary crafts from throughout New York State. The New York State Museum in Albany organized the exhibit, which will be on view at the Museum from February pense, heats .up the sce1'le as the New Y or'k State Theater Institute continues its 21 sl season. Witness for .the Prosecution, directed hy Ralph Allen, .is the new produc- tion of Agatha Christie's tense courtroom drama, and is scheduled onstage at the Schacht Fine Arts CenterofRussell Sage College in Troy. Performances will run untilfebruary 15. For more infonnation. call the box office at ( 518) 274-3256. 6, 1997thr~gh May 26, 1997. . . Works·in .. elay, fiber~ glass, metal. mixed inedia. and wood were submitted by artists from-the Western and Central regions ofthe state, the Adirondacks, and the Hudson VaHey, including New York City mid Long: Island. For rnore ·information, ONGOING The Albany Institute of History & Art is celebrating the bicentennial ofthe cit of Albany serving as the New York State capital with The Capital Comes to Albany, a new exhibition presenting the stories of people, events, and issues surrounding the establishment of Albany as the penn anent home ofNew York State govemmen in 1797. The exhibit also explo_res the life of the city of Albany at the time of the 1897 celebration of the centennial of the Capital in Albany. The Capital Comes to Albany draws on a selection of portraits, photographs, documents, and objects from col- lections of the Albany Institute. call {518)474-5877. · · · FRIDAY,FEBRUARY7 Illusion rtm,els by Streetcar(Mex~can: 1953, 90 minutes, b/w, in Spanish with English subtitles) will be shown at 7:30 PM in Page Hall, l35 Western A venue, on the Univer~i:ty at Albany's downtown campus. The screening is free and open to the public. Theexhibitalso examines the society and culture in Albany at the end of the 18th century. It will be on view in the Albany Institute's South Gallery through June l, 1997. Two transit workers ~teal a streetcar that is destined for the scrap heap and take it on <me last run, picking up a surreal assortment of passengers in this comedy directed by Luis Bunuel. The Albany Institute of History & Art is located at 125 Washington A venue in downtown Albany. Call (518)4634478 for infonnation. For additional infonnation contact.the Writers Institute at (518) 442~5620. SUNDAY,FEBRUARY9 . ALSOATTHEALBA.NY INSTITUTE OF HISTORY & ART All are invited to join the Albany Institute of History & Art's birthday celebration offestivitiesfrom I :00 to 5:00PM. The activities planned forthisday~longevent will encompass the \Museum Explorers\ theme. This theme encourages people to learn about the ricl1 cultural history of Albany and the Upper Hudson Region through fun, hands-on activities. Museum tours and films will be shown through~ out the day. January 1 &-March 2: Marble Dust and Magic Lakes: American Sandpape Paintings from the Collection of Randall and Tanya Holton. A major folk a exhibition focusing on 19th century charcoal and pastel drawings on sandpaper. East & West Galleries, Main Hall. January 18-March 2: MAC Faculty Show. Works by regional artists who are also instructors in the Albany Institute's Museum Art Class and Art Partners programs. MAC Gallery. For a list of events, call the Institute at(Sl&)463-4478. ' WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12 A free lunchtime Art Talk about \Tbe Art Scene\ will take place at the Albany InstituteofHistory& Art at 12:10 PM. The discussion, fed by Ted Lind, director of education at the Institute, will explore the ways that today's art is exhibited and promoted. Selected artists, col lectors, and galleries will be discussed, as well as the importance oftheartisf s media image. January 25~Aprill3: Leon Marcotte: 19th-Century Cabinet Makerand lilterio Decorator features an important suite of c. 1865 Louis XVI furniture designed and manufactured by the French-hom cabinetmaker Leon Marcotte ( 1824-1887), along with Eastman Johnson painting depicting a piece oftlw furniture. AT THE ALBANY CENTER GALLERIES January 17-Fcbruary 28· The M'ohawk Hudson Regional Invitational, featuring work by Judith Btust, Steve Perkins and Thomas Surrantonio., In the Leslie Urbach Gallery. The discussion is supplemented by an audiovisual p.resentation and active par• ticipation. Participants are invited to bring their lunch. Jan1,1ary 17~Fehmary :28· Paintings by Gerri Pugliese Moon•, in the Upsra1rs Gallery. The Albany Institute is located at 125 Washington Avenue in downtown Al- bany. Admission is free 011 Wednesdays. The Albany Center Galleries are lncated at the corner of Chapel and Monroe CLOSING FEBRUARY t 5 Streets in downtown Albany. For more intonnation call (518 )462-477 5 A sensational murder-trial, with plenty of money and motive, scandal, and su$~ . . UNION LAUNDRY. 561 NOTTST SCHENECTADY NY 12308 (ACAOSS FROM UNION COlLEGE} OPEN OAIL Y SAM TO 10:30PM FREE DRYING . TUESDAYS & THURSOA YS 8AMT03PM $1 PER WASH. 5TH WASH 7 WAt.I~EFOR $5, 28 WASHES FOR $20. MAL: (Oft OEPOSn' IN OUR StJOGEST1PN BOX) THIS AD TO UNION LAUNDRY FOR A FREE WASH. JNCI...IJOE YOt.*1 NAME AND ADORES$. We Care About U Schenectady wants You! Grab a cup of coffee and meet the van Satur- days at 9 A.M. in the College Center Circle A Gay Fantasia On National Themes by MichelleJester Contributing Writu If you have stopped hy the Yulman Theater lately, (to check out Prof Charles Steckler's Stage Design exposition perhaps) you might have noticed in the Actor's Studio a small group of slightly batty thespians rehears- ing far into the night. May he they were making robot noises or speaking of angels. Antarctica, and Valium-induced hallucina- tions. At this point, if you did not flee in fear, you would have proh- ably asked yourself. Don't these people have lives\ Well, my an- swer would have to be no. not until seventh week. You see, they are all in the theater for a very . good reason. Senior Emilia Teasdale, with the aid ofthisdedi- cated merry band of individuals, is presenting for her Senior Project a staged reading of Tony Kushner's nationally acclaimed Angles in America Part One: Mil- lennium Approaches. It is, as the playwrite caJls it, a gay fantasia on national themes. Ever since the genesis of her career here on this campus, Emilia has dreamed of directing this show at Union. Set in New York City, Angels is a riveting ac- count of relationships, politics and ethics in that Garden of Eden affectionately known as Ronald Reagan's America. It is 1985 and /\IDS has hegun to make its in- delible impact upon our countn and the world The characters in Angels arc facing this epidemic along with a load of other pres- sures that go hand in hand with /\merican life J\midstthediscus- sion of serious themes like love, homosexuality and death. Angels is infused with humor and wisdom In fact. it is almost nnpossihle to go through a page of the script without a laugh or an epiphany The play is just that cool. Other than the esteemed ge- nius of a director, Emilia Teasdale '97, the shcm is presented by Au- tumn Cohen '97. Carey Miller '9~. Sarah Morse '97. Doug Schneider 'l)l( Boh Pinkham '97. (iabril'ia Dory '9R. Jon Zandman '99. An Gottlich '99, and Michelle .lester '9~ It will appear in the Actor's Studio in the Yulman at 7pm on February 14. 15, and 16, 1997 THE SIIOW IS FREEl So. if you \Vant to make a reservation to ensure your place in the audience ofthe hest production Union has seen since. \veiL at least last tcnn. call the Box Otllce at x6545

. . Global News · - . . · · W'Ip~ illo1u:nrO.iensis • February 6., 1997 • Page 12 Global News Controversy Surrounds Democratic Fundraising by Suzanne Dougherty Global New Editor ered over a miUion more dol.- lars in donations that have been viewed as suspicious. Much of the money that has been called into question was raised by former DNC fund-\ raiser John Huang. Prior to his position at the DNC, Huang worked as a deputy assistant secretary at the Commerce De- partment and before that, he headed the a political contribution to any federal, state, or local U.S. can- didate or political party he must beacitiz;en ofthe United States or a non-citizen who has been legally admitted as a penn anent resident. Only United States tmits ofnon-U.S. corporatiens that supply the money from fheir own revenues and are not acting on orders from overseas swirling over the relationships between Asian business inter• ests that run through the White House and White House offi- cials thaLmight !}ave m·ixed govemment business with pol i- t-ics and foreign policy making. Documents released by the DNC expos~ a strategy called the Nat.ional Asian Pacific American Campaign Plan de- sign-ed to raise close to $7 mil- and the Lippo GroQp that are a-nchotee in Little Rock, Ar- kansas, calls for :further scru- tiny. ·One of the more damag- ing effects of this could be the discovery thatClinton allowed U.S. foreign policy to be af- fected by Riady aml other non- US. contributors. For the past three and a half months, questions about the le- gitimacy ofcertain Democratic fund~raising practices have arisen. Republicans first cal·led into dispute certain donations made to the Democratic Na- tional Co!'nmittee (DNC) by non-US citizens in mid-Octo- ber of this past year. This started a wa'Ve of controversy and investigations that have been probing deep into the ON C. The first allegation made by Republican Congressmen questioned the $425,000 in donations made to the DNC by AriefWiriad inata, the wealthy son-m-law of a business part- ner of Mochtar Riady and his son James, Indonesians who run the Lippo GrouJ). The Lippo Group is an Indonesian business conglomer-ate with ties to President Clint<:m that go back to his tenure as gover- nor of Arkansas. Since this point Republicans have U11COV- Lippo Group's U.S. affiliate. Of the $4 million to $5 million that Huang has raised for the Demo- crats during his ·one ofthe more damaging effects of this could be the discovery that Clinton allowed U.S for- eign policy to be qffected by Riady and other -non- US. contributors. -lion from Asian Ameri- cans.. This- plan is the as; sumed to be the brainchild of Huang, the Making his first s-tatement about the topic en January 28 ata press conference, President Clinton hqs admitted tltat, \ ... mistafces were m(l_de here. \ However,. he is asserting that the vast majority of funds raised by the DNC have been raised legally. tenure at the DNC, .$1.5 mil·lio11 of it has been returned to the donors be- cause it violated ethical fund- raising practices. . One ofthe first possible vio· lations made by the Clinton White House occurred when they accepted donations from individuals and businesses that did not fall within the param- eters of acceptable donors. ln order for an individual to make If we have a murder and a jaywalking, we maybe to look at the murder.\ Fred Thompson, the Senate Government Affairs mmittee chairman,. speaking on prioritizing the of Democratic and GOP fund:-raising You were really happy to have that done. It was a big ilege.\ Tim Sears, a former corporal in the Marines in the late 970' s, coinmenting on the unsactioned ceremony of pins into the chests of new Marine paratroopers. BARNARD COLLEGE..COLGA.TE UNI\'ER.SITY •• COilNEll UNJVERSITV HAMlt.lON COllEGE • .MANHI\TTANCOlLEGE .. ST.LAWRENCE UNIVERSITY •• UNI~N COLLEGE U .fl.E [lD 'ff.IJY= ~~!J:f: W \'f D JU~ 'P IU) G E A 1M :}, j llh~ iL! i]tfi'CiE.~JJ l.!J A ·n ~ CH11H: g i.e D lJ CA 11 0 d Summer 1997 Student Research Opportunities . ni ue 0 · ortunity to gain research experience with ~ fa~l~ . A u q d ppk •th stmJents from other colleges and un1Vers1hes at mentor an wor WI ; • • one of the following mstitut10ns: • Barnard College o Hamilton College • o Manhattan College • Colgate Universzty 11 U • · 1 o Saint Lawrence University o Corne mversz y • Union College 8-10 WEEK SUMMEit PROGRAM ENSES $Z,4JOO.OO STIPEND PLUS $500_;00 TRAVEL/HOUSING EXI' ' FOR A.NAPPLICA'I'ION OR FOR FURTHER DETAII..S, CONTACT YOuR INSTITUTIONA.L - OE:AN'S D_F_FI_ CE.' S·! ()_O_._ SCIENCE 1lo ENGIN~_R!~ 0 - _xS2.:3:3 IIEPRBSE'NTATIVE: Or call CORNELL UNIVEJlSITY 607-255-2710 BARNARD COUIGI,.COLGATE UNIVIRSITV .. CORNELL UNI~R~~iaN COLLE(;E HA!111L10N COllEGE..MANHATTAN COLLEGE .. ST.IAWRENCE UNI\IIRSI .. may give to camfidates or par- ties.The haz;y area ofthe fund- . raisihg laws arises in detenn in- ing whether it violat-es the law for any non-citizen t_o give money while not living in the co_untry, even if they are penna- nent residents. By taking con~ tributions from wealthy hido~ nesians and the Lippo Group, the DNC violated the law. A myriad of concerns areal so DNC, the Clinton-Gore cam- paign, and members of the White House staff. This plan, linked with tl~e .Qisolost)res of more than I 00 White H~use coffees arranged by the DNC tbr political pros- pects, records that show Huang as a f-requent yisitor to the White House on matters relat- ing to Indonesia, and a multi- tude of ties to the Riady family There have been requests made by am ultitude ofsources, including Congressional Re- pub:l ic:ans, The ·washington Post~ and The New York Times for an independent colmsel to investigate the DNC fund-rais- ing practices and the aHega- -iions set forth against the DNC. A ttotney General JaJiet Reno has denied these requests and has referred the matter over to the iliterna1 Justice Department attorneys. YOU can Maximize· YOUR Career Potential with Union's 5-Year-MBA Greta .August N1BA in Accounting '96 Associate Price Waterhouse Boston, M .. .:\ \Union's 5-Year MBA program gave me the opportunity to obtain my lllaster's degree and to secure a professional position in accounting a full year before graduation.\ For information call: 388-6239 Do you like working on the Web? Would you like to help place the The Concordiensis on the web?· Please callx6155 if you are intersted

. . . l)agc. 13 • February 6~ 199.7 • 'WIJl' <!Iumo_rDitnsis · Business News . . . . • Business News Source: New Y{)rk Times ' . 1, I 00 Economists Condemn Balanced Budget Amenchnent: ''Unsound and Unnecessary\ This statement below bas been .signed by over l ,100 prominent economists;, more than double the number who signed a similar statement in 1992. The si.gners include 11 Nobel Prize laureates in economics: Kenneth J. At·row and William Sh~:rpe of Stanford University; Gera·rd Debreu and John Harsanyi of the tJ niversity of CaUfornia-Berkeley; Lawrence R. Klein of the University of Pennsylvania; Wassily Leontieff of New York University; Herbert A. Simon of Carn.egie Mellott University; James Tobin ()r\'ale University; and Franco Modigiliani, Paul A. Samuelson and Robert SolowoJM.I.T. Tbe statement was drafted-by Robert Eisner, James Tobin, and Robert Solow. \We condemn the proposed 'balanced-budgl!t' ~amendment to tlte federal constitution. It is .unsound an_d unnecessar$ \The proposed amendment mandates perverse actions in the face of recessions. In economic downturns, tax revenues fall and some outlays, such as unemployment benefits, rise. These so-called built-in stabilizers limit declines of after-tax income and purchasing po.wer. To keep the budget balanced every year would aggravate recessions. \Unlike many state constitutions, which permit borrowing to finance capital expenditures, tlie proposed federal amendment makes no distinction between capital investment and current outlays. Private businesses and households borrow all the time to finance capittllspending. The amendment would prevent borrowing to finance expenditures for infrastructure, educa- tion, research and development, envitonmentalproteetion, and other investment vital to the nation's future well-being. 'The amendment invites Congress to require states and Localities and private b~~;siness to do what it cannot finance itself. It also invites more cosmetic accounting, such as increased sales of public lands and other assets counted for as deficit-reduc- , . ing revenues. Disputes on the meaning ofbudget balance could end up in the courts. \The amendment does contain escape hatches, hut they require super-majprities in peacetime, tJtree-fl.fths of the 'whole _number' (includiitg absentees and nonvoters) of each House to adopt an unbalanced budget m· to raise the debt and a ma- jority of these wh.ole numbers to pass a bill to raise taxes. These provisions are recipesfor gridhtck and opportunities for irresponsible min(}rities to insist on their agendas. \The amendment is not needed to balance the hudget. The measured deficit has fallen dramatically in recent years, from $290 billion in 1992 to $107 billio.n in 1996, to some 1.3 percent .of gross domestic product, a smaller proportion titan that of any other major nation, none ofwlticlt hobbles its economy witlt a balanced-hutlget mandate. Congress and the president can reduce the deficit to zero, that is, balance tlte budget; or even create budget surpluses, without a constitutional amend- ment. \There is no need to put the nation in an econo~ic ·straightjacket. Let the President and Congre!t'S make fiscal policies in res onse to national needs and · riorities as the authors o our Constitution \\\\'·\'' . . Nobel Prize Laureates or Congress? Akinwunmi Sawyerr Business Editor The above statement was en- dorsed by 1,1 00 economists. A balanced budget simply means that expenditure is equal to in- come. A balanced budget amendment will make it a law to balance the budget every year. The only way we can have an unbalanced budget is if three-fifths of each House of Congress votes. to adopt an un- balanced budget for a particu- lar year. The likelihood of this happening if we are ever unfor- tunate enough to pass a bal- anced budget amendment is small at best. The gridlock that plagues our political parties would certainly see to this. There is no industrialized na- tion in the world that has a law making it compulsory to bal- ance the budget every year. The U decide industrialized nations of the world have political leaders d·is- ciplined enough to ensure that their countries balance their budget on time. The world is in a period of relative peace. Although there are a few hot spots like the Middle East and Africa, the Cold War is over and the So- viet Union is no more. The iron curtain is down and the wo-rld's fear of a possible nuclear anni- hilation has been greatly damp- ened. A balanced budget amend- ment should have no place in the nation's agenda. · Congress should focus more on the isslleS that need to be addressed. Healthcare and welfare reform are just two of the many isslles that have h> be tackled. The family,. which forms the base of I . America, needs to be reinstated as the nation's foundation. A balanced budget amend- ment is not the way to go. It will tie our hands behind our backs and remove the flexibil- ity of spending more when needed. The above statement is a les- son to society to never take any- thing at face value. Decisions can be made after all sides have voiced their opinions on the is- sues. Congress gave us their . version of the story and con- vinced most ofthe country that a balanced budget amendment was needed. The people that continue to improve on the theories that founded the na- · tion's economic and financial sectors, have now spoken. It is now up to us to decide who to go along with: the writers of economic theory or the self pro- claimed authors of our laws. U . decide.

<._ ~·, .._,I ' MAKE YOUR MEGA MOVE TODAY! the dutch hollow-- restauran'------ - Imponant news for peopJe with SINUS PROBLEMS Do l!)OLA have the foi!o:~v'ing? • jr?.c.ial pain in the sinus area * J\laso.! Congestio;1 * Stnus pain or pressure ~ Disco/area nasal aischarqe If YOU ARE 18 OR OLDER AHD CURRENfiY EXPERIEJ4CING ANY OF THESE SYMPTOMS YOU MAY QUALIFY FOR PARTICIPAnOH IN A SINUS RESWCH STUDY. , ~ualified participants receive the following: A Dr. visit ond study medication at no charge A Monetary compensation for time· and participation Fo_r more information call 452-2510 or 1-800-363·3464 A.LLERG.Y & ASTHMA CENTER OF ALBANY MED .215 Washington Ave. Ext. Albany. NY ·12205 f/j Albany MedicaJ College Division of Allergy 1;.;;;.uffmu i.r. Patient CtJTT: aru! CfiJzi.J:.DI ~t.:.:r:::: Classifieds ANY SIZE ·ROLL 3t\ Double Prints 4n Double Prints $ THE COLLEGE STORE REAMER CAMPUS CENTER SALE EFFECTIVE FEB. 6-28 24 HOUR SERVICE I.E.F. DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation ·.in two categories- student-initiated research proJects and \edu- · cation ally innovative projects\ is February 20, 1997. Proposals tor student-initiated research proje.cts must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to super- vise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's · Office (S 100, Science & Engineering Building) on forms avail-. able there. Similarly~ members ofthe College community who have \educa- tionally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same oft1ce 011 forms available there. Forms tor Faculty Research Projects are also available in the · Dean's Office (SIOO). Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Margaret Dalton, Administrative Assistant to the Dean of Arts & Sciences. When preparing bud- gets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your re- search includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval trom the Human Subjects Re- search Comtnittee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Undergraduate Research. ********~*************************************** FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Faculty Development Committee is now soliciting proposals tor faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Sorum's Office (S-100, S&E). The dead! ine for submission of proposals is February 20, 1997. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be di- rected to Dean Sorum. When preparing budgets, please remem- ber that per diem rates are normally limited to $50-85 per day. Transportation should also retlect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposals mt1st have preliminary approval trom the Human Sub- 'ects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Faculty Developmetlt Committee. Desert Rose Consignment Shop 1726 Union Street, Niskayuna Quality Clothing at a Fraction of the Original Price. 20% Off with Student ID (Not to be used with . any other discou~t) 1\_emember your Va.Centim The open 1Joor a unique &ook.s~ · 128·136 :Jav .:)l. · .S&:Jiena:ta.dv, cY:_.Y ' . . 518•.)46,!:'19

Put the world at your fingertips. Softwaro Engineering Systems Engineering Computer Design Signal Processing Electro-Optics Image Processing Witt, Raytheon Electron'ic Systems, you'll create the technologies that define the futl.!re of tomorrow's world. You'll maximize your Engineer.iny and Computer Science knowledge and make an impact when you join our team. We currently have over 350 opportunities available in the technical areas Usted above. Raytheon El~tronic Systems will be visiting campus soon. To find out more about the complex challenges we have to offer, please contact the Career Placement Office to sig(l up for an interview. For additional information, please see our .homepage at: http:/ /www.raytheon.com/res Interested candidates who are unable to meet with us on campus may send a resume directly to: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Professional Staffing, M/S T2SL2, 50 Apple Hill Drive, Tewksbury, MA 01876-0901. Fax: (508) 858-1163. E-mail: staffing@res.ray.com U.S. citizenship may be requireCI for some positions. Equal Opportunity Employer. Raylbeon Electronic Systems Mom- Welcome back to Union. I love you and hope you have a terrific weekend. -Love, Friena T- You're an awesome friend·. Let's \do\ fro-yo! -Michelle The Throwers- This weekend rocked! Thanks for the memories .. Can't wait 'til Saturday. -Flipper Jaynage- Roar! One step at a time! -Loon TheGirls- Don 't forget the stereo for Saturday. Ninety minutes eacl1 way is a long time on a bus! -Loon Frank Rossi- You are the man! Keep up the good work! -Michelle Leslie L<>u- You are the best roomie and your little loves you too! -Loon TotheBrothers of AD and Psi U, Thanks for the party! Love, the Sisters ofSDT Tothe SistersofDeltaGamma, You guys are incredible! Don't let the spirit die. Always believe in yourself. Thanks for all your support. Little Debbie To Heather: Trick or treat! Love, Sara Peee-tah! Happy Birthday old man! LovetheDORKS Finnan- Roomies are awesome! promise! Deb Carmen- .f.fs great to have you back from Turkey-gobble gobble! 1068 Wendell TB- You Rock! Hang in there, kid! a., Shira- Will you get better already! Deb To .Ten, Hope you're having a wonderful time in Greece! We miss you! Love, the Sisters of Delta Gamma Aaron- You may be a lush, but you're still a pal! Jenn To Loonie- Mushy just isn't my thing, but it's the thought that counts! PJ Joe- Don't wony: Things will work out! And if they don't, you still have me! Love ya, Rach Rach- Thanks for being an awe- some roommate! Remember not to put your coat in the cleaning closefagain! Love, Rachel Joey- We will party with the NM soon! All the work will pay off. Deb Frank- Now you have two per- sonals!! You are really neat. Thanks! - .lenn, Amy, Adrian Janine- Good I uck with the theater! You will love it! Deb Sara- THE COLLEGE BOOKS~fORE HAS Hope you are having a fabulous time in Mexico. Union isn't the same without you! Love, Stacey Maria and Suz- Greece sounds fabulous. Have fun, but come home soon! Love, Stacey Carrie S-Thanks for the laughs! Deb Shawn- Where are you') Stop by sometime! Deb Lins and J i.JI- Take advantage of the warm weather We miss you here in the cold Can't wait until you come back! Love, Stacey Monica- Things will work out. Call me if they don't. Deb Kelli- You're awesome! Keep laughing. Deb Loralynne- You go girl! Good luck with the government overthrow plans! Deb Freak- LOSER! Deb Saral- Where do you live? Deb Red-Getthe--outofmyroom! Deb Happy 21st Gabriella! I hope that you have a wonderful day. You are the best! -Love, Adrian Stephanie - We hope that your birthday was a bait we missed you all evening. -Guess who? Jess - You're awesome! -Adrian BOUQUETS OF LONG STEMMED ROSES IN RED AND ASSORTED COLORS FOR THAT SPECIAL VALENTINE IN YOUR LIFE SINGLE ROSE ............. $ 3.95 THREE ROSES ..... u ... $10.95 SIX ROSES .............. $19.95 TWELVE ROSES ........ $35095 Single roses will be contained in their own water vial to insure freshness vailable first level College Bookstore Friday, Feb. 14th, from 9:00am- 4: (We request that you order your roses by Feb. 7th, to insure availability. Use ·sad as your order form or stop by the second level of the Bookstore and pl your order with either Donna or Christine or Call 388-2195 .ThC:l~k .Y~u.).

<.., .... Page 16 • February 6, l 997 ·• Wl e Qlottcorbil'ttsis · · . · · S orts Division III Athletic Changes Could Affect U byFrank Rossi Staff Writer Don't look now, but if you are a Division III athlete, your road to a championship may be getting a bit easier starting next Septem- ber. Some changes to the Divi- sion III championship system are not set in stone, but others are ready to roll. This article exam- ines the new enhancements, looks at proposed further en- hancements, and discusses the possible Division III footbaJ.J championship changes which may be proposed later this year. 1997-98 Enhancements A major complaint which has become nearly universal in Divi- sion Ill athletics is the problem that NCAA playoffs are so hard to reach, even for teams with de- cent records. The NCAA has de- cided to put in place enhance- ments for sports sponsored by more than 200 institutions (bas- ketball, softball, baseball, soccer, and women's volleyball). Foot- ball is a separate issue that will be covered later in this article. Starting in the 1997-98 athletic year, championship brackets will be increased based on the num- ber of teams participating in a specific sport. The ratios to be maintained are between 8 to I and 12 to I: ifDivisionlll basketball had 300 schools participating, the new ratios would force between 25 and 37 .teams to be placed in the playofts. All team sports will cOJltinue to have one ultimate cham.pion, but the ini'tial fields (and· in some cases, number of rounds) wi'll increase in size. The following represent the proposed new bracket sizes: men's and women's basketbal·l will have 48 teams, men's and women's soccer will have 40 teams, baseball and softball will have 40 teams, and women's vol- leyball will have 48 teams. Further Enhancements? Even before the new enhance- those champions would notrrieet in an ultimate championship game. The subgroup option would di- vide Division HI into four d.iffer- ent groups, Division III-A, Hl- AA, lll-AAA. and HI-AAAA. State-funded schools would go 6e used during the newDi~tslon UI governance structure tn(leting later this year, Union Athletic Director Rich- ard Sakala agrees with the results · of the straw poll. ''I'm inE\gree- mentthat we should give tl'le cur- rent structure with the enhance- \I'm in agreement that we should give the current structure with the en- . hancements an opportunity to work for a couple of years. \ --Union College Athletic Director Richard Sakata ments are given a chance, the NCAA may make adjustments to the structure. Under consider- ation are two new systems--sub- groups and subdivisions. Subdi- visions, which athletic directors do not favor according to a straw vote, would split Division III into Ill-A and Ili-AA. Division III-A schools would be classified as schools with .. a male or female undergraduate student enrollment of I ,000 or more.\ Division 111- AA schools would be .classified as schools with, .. a male under- graduate enrollment of500 or less and female undergraduate enroll- ment of500 or less.\ The remain- ing schools that fall in between are classified based on the num- ber of sports that they sponsor. To make a long story short, Union, which has over 1,000 te- . male students, would be placed in Divisiol1 Ill-A. However, large public schools would also be placed in Division III-A causing a possible imbalance in the nature of schools in this divisiort An- other glitch in the subdivision program is that each subdivision would declare a cham ion, but into their own division, as would ments an opportunity to W()rk tor schools that sponsor less than a cottple of years.\ eight men's and eight women's sports. The remaining schools Footbttll: Still tt Mystei'Y' which sponsor over eight sports As Union students know, the for each gender would be split Division HI football playoffs are into their own divisions based on not the easiest for which to enrollment(schoolswith 1,600or qualify. There are only 16teams less students and those with more chosen (tour from each region), than I ,600 students). and the playoffs last for four Again, for simplicity, Union weeks. The ratio of Divisicm HI would tall into the division that schools participating in football sponsors over eight sports for to those chosen for the playoffs each gender 1,1nd has over I ,600 is higher than it is for most SJJOrts. students. The UCAA, Union's While there have been flllhors Division HI conference, would that football teams would be remain intact in both styles of di- placed in subgroups starting in the visions, but only the subgroup 1998 season, no enhancements option would pit each ofthe four have been made tor football. A group champions into a \final separate committee will decide four\ national championship. what to do with football by Janu- The athletic directors appear to ary, 1998. favor the subgroup option par- Additional teams in the football hally·forthesingle national cham- · playotlS would lead to more time pion idea. .·· · - · ·, needed io finisli those playoffs, a In a prior straw vote, however, scenario most college presi<lents the directors said that they wo~Jld want to 'avoid. Acc'onling to rather see the current ei1hance- Sakal a, it is possible that, in or- ments (from the previous section) der to allow as many teams as go into effect before any further possible in the Divisi01~ IH foot- changes are made. While this ball playoffs, a regioi1a'l ch:smpi- vote is not a final decision it will on ship system rrmy be se:.t· up. However, he added, \'The football coaches association voted over- whelmingly to keep the concept of one 'national champion.'\ If football was put through the sub- group or subdivisiOlLill.Odel, ei- ther additional weeks would be needed to decide an ultimate champion; or there could not be a single NCAA winner. For now, the 16-team NCAA football playoffs will remain in- tact. No changes will be made unti'l at least the 1998 football season, if any changes are de- cided on next January. Direc- torSakala feels playoffaccessi- biJ.ity in football needs to be ad- dress.ed. 'Tm still in favor of a national champion tn football, but l' d like to see more opportunities for teams [in playoffs].\ Ovemll Effects lfyouplayin anon-team Divi- sion III sport, the current NCAA discussions will not affect you. If you play basketball, softball, baseball, women's vo] leyball, or soccer, then you will have greater access to your sport's NCAA playoffs starting next academic year (unless the new Div1sion III governance structure chooses not to heed the memberships' opin- ion). Beyond tl1at, many things are in question. Teams you p]ay normally .may no longer be lo- cated in your d.iyi,sion In a few years if subgroups or subdiyisi ons are chosen, but this is will not happen in thejmrnediate future . · Ifyou play football, your con- cerns will be disc.ussed in sepa- rate meetings, 'as the nature of football playotTs creates a long post-season. Next season, how- ever, remainsuHtouol:fecl','and the future f{)r a singte' nationaL cham- pion looks healthy. UCAA and ECAC Update ·Men's B·asketball Women's Basketball Team Overall llCAA Won Lost Won Lost William Smith 16 0 6 0 Skidmore 9 6 4 2 RPI 9 7 4 2 St. Lawrence 6 6 3 3 Clarkson 7 8 ') 4 .... Hamilton 6 10 2 4 Union 3 13 0 6 Honor Roll Leall Oliveiri, freshman, (Rochester, NY) was a bright spot in an 0-3 week for the Dutchwomen; as she had 33 points and 16 rebounds against William Smith, 19 points and 20 boards in a weekday game against Hat1wick, and 12 points and II rebounds against Hamilton. Men's Basketball Team Overall UCAA Won Lost Won Lost St. Lawrence 14 2 6 0 Hamilton 8 7 4 2 Clarkson 8 8 3 3 Union 5 11 3 3 Hobart 6 9 3 3 Skidmore 4 12 I 5 RPI 3 13 I 5 Honor Roll ·Rob TeCarr,junior, (Bedford Hills, NY) had 15 points and three boards in an upset win over Hamilton, and had 19 points in a loss to Hobart. contilwedjrom page UJ he stated, ·'They're doing a very good job of getting opportunities out of our otl'ense. I'm r~ally pleased about their develop- ment.\ Union taced nationally-ra11ked Williams College last ralght (Wednesday), and the Dutchmen (5-11, 3-3 UCAA) do not have it much easier this weekend. !hey travel to Clarkson and St; Lawrence, two teams they I ost against earlier this season. Union led for most of the Clarl<son game, bltt the Dutchmen failed to keep control down the stretch, losing 60-55. St. Lawrence, a team probably bound for the NCAA Division IIl tournament, ~ blew out the Dutchmen, 97-59. The Dutchmen need to stop Andy Bardeschewski at St. Lawrence, as he scored several three pointers against Union. Groelz is cautiously optomistic about the Dutchmen's upcoming games. '\It's going to be t()ugh. You can't go into a garne think- ing you're going to lose, and we have to go out and play like we have in the last four or five games.\ The Dutchmen face Clarkson Friday at 8 p.m. and St. Lawrence at 4 p.m. (probably broadcast by WRUC). ECA<: Hockey Standings League Only Overall School GP W-L-T Pts GF GA W-L-T Com ell 14 9-3-2 20 49 36 12-5-4 RPI 14 9-3·2 20 57 43 14-7-3 Vermont 14 9-4-1 19 41 35 17-6-1 Princeton 15 9-5-l 19 53 42 14-6-2 Clarkson 14 9-5-0 18 61 40 16-8-0 Colgate 14 7-6-1 15 46 42 13-10-1 Union 14 6-6-2 14 39 40 13M9-2 Harvard 14 6-7-2 14 40 43 7-11-2 St. Lrnce 14 4-8-2 10 49 56 9-15-2 Drtmth 14 4-9-1 9 49 63 9·11-1 Yale 15 4-10-1 9 40 60 7-13-2 Brown 15 2-12-l 5 49 73 5-15-2 Honor Roll Brent Ozarowski. sopllomote, (Schenectady, NY) thrilled hometown fans with a 112tural hat trick in the second period of Union's 8-l win over Army at Achilles Rink on Saturday.

Women's Hockey Falls to MI.T Track Second at Capital District Championships by Jody Mousseau StaffWriter The Dutchwon1en skated against MiT at Achilles Rink in a 3-0 losing effort on Wednesday, January 29. Pn~sently, they stand with a 5~5 overall record. The first period presented the Dutchwotnen with many ob- stacles, including MIT's excellent passing. Union adjusted in the second and third periods to step up their game. Union out-shot MIT, despite their 3-0 loss, and the-ir determinatiot'l; kept them going. The defense played extremely well, with Lauren Locke in goal, and alllinesnn offense came to- gether to keep the puck in the Union zone for a great portion of the last two periods. Although Union seetned to dominate the game in tenns ofspeed and shots, they could not get the puck in the net. MIT's success can be duly attributed to their goalie, who saved one-hundred percent of Union's shots on net. Dutchwomen tri-captain and club president Hana Yamashita stated, \'Although the score doesn't show it, I think we really won the game. We out-skated them, out-hustled them, and outplayed them. Unfortunately, the puck didn't bounce our way, but we'll get them next time.\ The .outstanding attitude and Wilbur carries puck up ice tile los$ to RPI. (Laurie Kirschner I TC) dedication of the players and our first loss against a club team. coaches on the women's hockey We are starting to come together team this season has contributed as a team and have some tough totheoverallgrowthandsuccess games ahead. The Skating of the program this season. The Dutchwomen stand 5-5 overall, entire Dutchwomen squad made with a 4-1 record against other an outstanding perfonnance at the co liege club teams.\ MIT game, despite the 3-0 loss. The Onion Women's Hockey Union will face MIT again at the Team will take on the Adirondack MIT Tournament in March. A's this Friday, February 7 at Coach Tim Benson feels that Achilles Rink at4:45 p.m. Come the team is having an excellent and support one of the fasting season despite the loss. \We lost growing and most successful club to a great team in MIT. That is teams on the Union campus. · by Jason Everett Sta.flWriter This past Sunday, both the mens and the women's track teams traveled to RPI for tl1e an- nual Capital District I.ndoor Championships. In the men's competition, tl1e RPI squad. won with 94 points, vvhile Uniun vvas a distant seceml vvith 37points, and Saint Rose tallied I 2 p<lints for third. Bryan Roy had an outstanding day, taking first in both the long j:ump and the triple jump withdis- tances of 6 .l 5 tneters and I 2. 89 meters respectively. Roy was the lone first place finisher for the men, while Jesse Prisc<l \Vas a close second in both oftl1ej ump events with distances of 6.07 meters and l238meters. Turning to tl1e track, seniorco~ captain Dave Riggi, in ]~is first match-up against Krishaun Gilmore of RYJ, finished second with a time of5.71 to Gi.hnore's 5.51 in the 45 meter dash. It should be note<! that Gilmore is currently ranked number one in the nation in this event. The Union 111en were notice- ably weak itl the mid-distance events, havin£ lost two mnneFs this week fort.heremainder ofthe season due to outside commit- ments and. with Co-captain Jay Goldberg sidelined with illness. Turning to the women's com- petition, RPI won with 84 points, while the Union squad was sec- ond with 40 points. In the two- team contest, Union had a plethora of second place finishes but only one first place finish. The lone first place finisher was Carrie Ciejkawski in the high jutnp with a height of 1.43 meters. Out of the thirteen total events, the Union wotnen took second in seven of them. Sophomore Katie MacDowell, who had an impres- sive win in her season debut in the I 500 meter two weeks ago against Ham ilt<ln, was unable to duplicate that winning perfor- tnance this week, hut managed to run an outstanding race, finishing second in 5:22 .. This was a per- sonal best of more than ten sec- <Jnds by MacDowell. Sidelined for the women due to illness was mid-distance sophomore Jessica Goveia. Kathy Bugden also had a suc- cessful day, taking second in both thelongjump and thetriplejump, with leapsof4-.14 meters and 9.06 meters, while suphomore Molly Hood competed for the first time after a two week team sabbatical. Men's Hockey in Tie for 7th with Harvard, Meet Clarkson and St. Lawrence this weekend Continued. from hack page ricocheted off of the crossbar. Seconds I ater, it was Robert Merrill, getting his forth goal of theseasonas hebeatShtrom. The Dutchmen could do nothing to get back jnto the game, and the period ended with the Bears hold- ing a 2-0 lead. The second period saw Union tighten its defense, as the Bears were held to just four shots. However, the Dutchmen could not muster any real scoring op- portunities except for a couple of soft shots that Audette easily stopped. The Bears.' Adrian Smith's aggressive forecheck kept Union in its own zone, and when the bl!zzer sounded, the Bears still held their2-0 l.ead. The Dutchmen still looked disorga- nized. \F <Jr a I ong time, we playecl as though we were unfa- miliarwith each other,\ said Head Coach Stan Moore. Union looked a little better at the start of tl1e third period; as they were able to keep the puck in the offensive zone I ong enough to muster a scoring chance. The Dutchmen showed signs of breaking the forecheck early, as Bill Moody rrtuscled his way up the ice and fed the puck to Patrick . o•Fiaherty, who got a quick clean shot on the net. However, the passes were still not connecting as well as they had in previous games. Then, at 3:05 ofthe pe- riod, B-rent Ozarowski picked up a loose rebound that was sitting in the slot and fired it past Audette, cutting the Brown tead to 2-1. This goal seemed to in- ject some life into the tJnion team as they. began to throw the body, However, Brown held strong and the Dutchmen still had difficulty finding the net. With the puck deep in the Bears' zone, Mark Szucs picked up and skated his way up to the point. Looking to pass or for cutter in front of the n€t, Szucs found no oneand rock- eted a slap~shot through the 5- .hole of Audette's pads tying the game at 2-2 and bringing some 1 ife into the Utiion crowd. From here on, it was all Union. The pass- ing began to click, the hitting a n d · forecheck stepped up, and the confi- dence re- turned. Fi- nally, the forecheck paid off at 18:3 8, as J a m i e Brown began its final attack. The Onion defense held strong, and as Shtrom kicked out his 26th shot ofthe night, Jay Prentice picked the puck up at center ice and put it in the empty-net, icing the Dutchmen's 4-2 come-from~be­ hind victory. The following night, Onion faced-off against Division I Inde- pendent Anny, in the Dutchmen's later, it was R.yan Don<lvan get- ting his tifth goal of the season as he beat Cflatnberlain to put Union out t<l a quick 2-0 lead. The Dutchmenforecheck, which was phenomenal all night, caused Army to take a l1ooking penalty while trying t<> get the pucl< out ofits own zone. Russ Monteith got into the s:coring act on the power-play, a5l1e was set up by Ant o in e Jay Prentice skates around an Army defensemau. Plloto by Rick Letlr!rer lTC won a face-off back to Andrew final non-league match-up of the Ozarowski and John Sicinski and Will. Will skated the puck down season. Junior goaltender Trevor put the puck ir1 tile back <lf the the right wing boards and behind Koenig retumed to the line-up af- net, giving the Dl!tchmen a 3-0 the net, holding it until he was ter missing three games due to the lead. able to feed Antoine in front. flu. Union started out strong, The second period belonged to Antoine, in his seventhgoal ofthe opening the game with a fierce the Dutchmen a11d to Ozarowski, season and first at even strength, forechec}{. At 4:48, Prentice as the Schenectady native regis- put the puck by Audette for the opened what would be a night of tered the first natural hat-trick in game-winner. With under two scoringfortheDutchmen, taking Union'sDivisi<lni history, scm- minutes remaining, a bewildered a Ryan Campbell pass and bury- . il)g three straight goals to up his Brown team had to muster some ing it behind the Army goaltender total to nine goa.ls in the seas<ln offense. .Audette went to the Daryl Chamberlain to give Onion and to give Uni<ln a6-0 iead. His bench for a sixth skater. and a 1-0 lead. Less than a minute line-mate Prentice assisted on all three goals, giving him four points on the evening. \It seemed like everyth in:.g he was shooting was finding its way to the net,\ ?rentice said. The final stanza saw Union c<>ntinue its sulid play, scoring two more goals, as Sicinski got his fourteenth()fthe season with Chris Ford and Mark Will assist- ing. The assist gives Ford 98 p<Jints in his Union career, mov- ing him two puints closer to the centllry mark, which would make hitn the first Dutchmen in Union's Division I history to reach the milestone. Antoine got Union's eigllth and final goal of evening as As.sistant Captain Greg Buchanan registered his first poi.nt of the season, getting the assist. Anny avoided the shut-out Ia te in the period, as Joe Sharrock got his thirteenth gual ofthe sea- son, to end the scoring for the evening. The seventh place 6-6-2 ( 13-9- f) Dutchmen travel deep into the N-orth Country this weekend to takeon the fifth-ranked Clarkson Golden Knights and the St. Lawrence Saints. Junior winger Charlie Moxhatn feels that the upcoming weekend is important f()r the Dutchmen \This the first time in three weeks that we play two ·teague teams in a weekend. Tllese are two quality teams and it is a good chance to move up in the standings,\ he said. RETWEEN THE PIPES Jay Prentice's four points against Army is a career high. n .. ent Ozarowski l1ad a total of . five points on the weekend. T .. evor Koenig stopped eighteen sl1ots against Artny.

t>age 18 • February 6~ 1997 • Wlp,• (!hnu:oroieusis _ · . \ . . · S p ~ll'ts. Women's Hoops Team Continues· Their Skid Hitz moves to third on alltime scoring list · by Josh Adams Staff Writer The Union College Women's basketball team continued their hard-luck season by dropping its weekend series to Hamilton Col- lege and to William Smith Col- lege. On Friday, the Dutch women hosted Hamilton College, losing 61~52. On Saturday, Union hosted undefeated William Smith and fell 89-66. These two defeats lowered the Dutch women's record to 3-13 overall and 0-6 in theUCAA. The two halves of the Hamilton game represented two different types of play tbr the lady cagers. Union was up at the half 29~ 18, but they could not muster enough offense in the second and were outscored 43-23. Coach Mary Ellen Burt attributed the lack of offense in the second half to the tenacious Hamil ton defense. \In - the second half we didn't execute an area ofthe game. that has been rific freshman season and· was as well Their full-court press h\lrting them o.flate, Coach Burt named player ofthe game. She is bothered us/ Coach Burt said. put it best when sbe said, \We se<;:ond in team ·scar- Her team was paced ing this season, aver- by freshman phe- aging 11.8 points per nomenon Leah game. Hitz is. first 01 ive.iri, who with 13.9 pointsper scored 12 points game. \It was hard and grabbed 11 re-- to lose both games, bounds. especially the first Senior Amy Hitz one, when we were got herself in the ~tp at th¢ half,\ she record books, by said. becoming the third On Saturday, the woman in Lady women hosted the Dutchmen history 16-0 William Smith to score 1000 points College at Memorial (see article in this Fieldhouse, Surpris- section). She cur- ingly, Williatn Smith rently is third on the brought a latge con- all-time scoring list tingent of fans to with I 0 II points. watch the.ir team Hitz is also on pace play. to become the all- The Dutchwomen time leading were unable to im- rebounder in Lady prove from the pre- Dutchmen history. - viousnight's perfor- She collected 24 on Mary Schultz. dribble.\ pa~;t a df{f'ender.(l-aurie l(irsc:hnerff(J mance, and they th,: weekend. The women shot missed some shots that were bowed to a tough William Smith 31.1 percent from the tloor and there.\ team 89-66. hit 76.5 percent of their throws, Leah Oliveiri continued herter- Olivei ri agam I ed the Dutchwomen ip scoring vrith 33 points and 16 rebounds., 12 cf them on the offensive side. N<>t surprisingly, she was n::u::ned player ofthe game forthe SG:Jc.ond night in a row The women continued tlleir anemic shooting drought,J;irting 35 percent of their field g(}ais. However, the Lady Dutch wet11en did improye on their free·thTc.w shooting, making good 011 77 .& percent of their oppmtunities. Hitz went 1-15 from the fl{)or and was perfect from the cha iity stripe~ going 4-4. \We had trouble working. t<l- gether. We were more indi- vidual.\ Oliveiri stated of the team's woes this season. \'t starting to play as a temn, ~hd it should show in the next few games.\ Next weeken[J, the women travel to Clarkson and 1o St. Lawrence for two moretto ugh league games. The last time Uni011 battled Clarkso11, the Dutchwomen were narroVJly- de- feated 63-53. They also los1by three to St. Lawrence in an ner- time thriller,60-57. Atny Hitz: Lea.rning ·L¢·.ssons .on and Off the Court Courtesy of Sports Information ance counselor and basketball for the Bay State team until two tiful here: I knew I would be able coach. . . herniated discs in her back forced to play basketball here right away her to work harder. She is the type of player in which yotL build a strong foundation.\ Basketball means niany things to Union College senior forward Amy Hitz. lt is a driving force that serves as a focal point in her life. For Hitz, a native of Acton. MA and a graduate of Acton- Boxboro. Regional High Schoot the garne of basketball brings a sense· of self esteem and self re- spect. The game is about mak- ing friends and being a friend. It is about belonging to something special. \I I ike going to class,\ said her to the sideline in the summer because tl:Je program wasn'tthat Hitz. \I enjoy discussing things, of her junior yea~. Therapy, a strong. F?r me, it was a privilege applying things I've learned in plastic brace, and her intense de- to come and help a program im- class to what's going on in. my sir.e to play kept h(,!r in tlie ga1ne. prov~ rather than ride the pine for A dominating player thr()ugl1- out her career, Hltz has s6ote:d in double fig~;~rers in 52 of:ller 87 games while pulling down. ·liQ <Jr more rebounds 45 times. Slhe: has hit the 20-point plateau 1 0 tiJnes (with a high of 29). and ha·d two games in which she pulled dbw11 20 rebounds (with a higll ()f:22). Hitz has 38 outings in whicll she had double digits in both p~ints and rebounds (including ~n + !- game streak that went fr:om1 tile last five games ofher sop)lom()re season through the first six con- tests of her junior year). She: has nine \double-doubles\ so ~r this life. lfl should get an A its not \I couldn't stand sitting and an established team.\ because I'm working my tail off, watching,\ Hitz explained .. \It A sist~r ofD>:Ha Gc~mma, Hitz but because I enjoy academics. I was easier dealing with the pain has held several offices within her enjoy learn- . .. sorority. A ing.\ fneinb'er of Bas-. the psychol- ketball at ogy national Union has honor soci- also taught ety, Hitz is Hitz sotne of also a vol.un- It is not, however, abo lit sta- 1 i fe 's hard teer tutor for tistics and records, two areas in which Hitz has excelled during lessons. The pres c h o o 1 Dutchwomen~ and mid dIe her four-year career on Union's who have Division III team. Just the third had only player to score I ,000 points ir\ the tour winning 21-year old history of women's seasons m basketball at Union, Hitz also has their history. a shot at becoming the college's are24-62the all-time rebounding leader. last three and \I haven't been worrying about a half years. scoring 1,000 points,\ explained \It is dis- Hitz of the first half of the sea- appointing son. \I've been worrying about that the won- getting into grad school.\ lost record H itz, now in her fourth year as isn't better:' a starter and her second as the said Hi tz. Dutchwomen 's co-captain, came \But I don't into her final season eighth on the think that I team's all-time scoring list with would be the 788 points and second on there- person that I bounding chart with a career to- am today if tal of 700. Now, 16 games into we had won this year's 24-game schedule, every game Hitz is third on the scoring chart and won a with 1,011 pointsandhas869re- champion- bounds. While she probably will ship. The not surpass Robin Romer (I ,738 struggle, the points) or Andrea Pagnozzi hard work, (I ,324) on the scoring list, she is has added a only 63 rebounds from breaking lotofcharac~ Romer's mark of932. ter to everyone on team, m- An unselfish player who pos- eluding myself It is easy to be at sess a driving need to know that practice when you're a winner, she's done her best, Hitz has the but it's harder to show up every same positive attitude in the class- day when things aren't going room. A psychology major with your way. a sociology minor, Hitz owns a Hitz has been playing basket- 3.6 GPA and is looking forward ball since the eighth grade. A to graduate schools in hopes of solid high school and AAU per- one.day becoming ascho.olguid-: . _fprm~r, She was selecte4. to play age childret1. She is a member of the athletic department's gender equity committee and is on the student ath- letic commit- tee, which works with season. A durable player, Hitz has missed only one game duri11~ Iter entire college career. A:n a11kJe injury kept her out of lastyr=ar's season finale and cost h~r a chance at breaking her own single-season rebounding tr.ack of 273 set as a sophomore. liitz ended her junior campaign 11;\iith 268 boards. the athletic The Dutchwomen 's '\'Mo.st director in re- Valuable Player\ after last stetrson, gard to a·ll of Hitz was selected to the Upstate Union's 22 College Athletic Associati()rt's varsity iniet- First- Team by a votf: !!if tl1e co II e g i ate league's coaches. She wasnaJned teams. With Union's ECAC Medal of Merit all that she recipient as the college's \Out- has going on standing Junior Female Athlete.\ in her life at This year she was elected totlle Union, Hitz All- Tournament Team fot tl1e found the Union Invitational after ~etting time to coor- the event's rebounding record. di11ate and \Amy's offensive n'l!Flll:lers start a new speak for themselves,\ saidBtut. peer group \But she is as good a play-er-de- not that deals with rape victims and fensively. We put Amy 011 fhe • Turning her attention towards survivors. of sexual assault, called opposition's best offensive ·threat college, Hitz applied to schools Safe Space Group. In the spring every game, that's how good an that would give her a strong she runs outdoor track all-around player she is.'~ educational background as well \Amy demands a Jot of her- · Hitz admits that her pl:ac:e in as the opportunity to continue her self,\ explains Coach Burt. \She Union's basketball historr bo()k basketball career. Union filled all is always tryi11g to be better. The will probably mean more. tat her of her needs. example that she sets with her de- in later life. For now, tho11gh ,she ''I liked Union's small cam- termination and hard work just is happy for the life lessO<rts the pus,\ e;!(phlin~d Hitz. \I! i~ .!Jef!u- ... o&turaUy pushes,eyer.ym;i(( !lt~mnd . , ,game ofb&s~~~ball.h~~ ~u.~ht her.

S11o.rts · . · · Wl c illou.co:rniettsiz • February 6.,1997 • Page·l9 by Chri$t~pher Leon~ SpQit.$,Edi.tqr For the last several· weeks .the Union student body has com- plained about the future of their ~'beloved\ Achilles Rink. Stu ... dents cry like babies that moving the hockey team would be equiva- lent to homicide on the campus, and thatanyoae man' responsible for this or ·eveJt associated with the effort should be drawn and quartered· in fro't:\t .of the· whole· student body. While these great loyalists study \the assassination plans for the proposed develop- ers, they ~re forgetting to do 011e major thing-·· ·attend ~the tecent games. -attendance and'who rang out their usual loud voices, there was hardly another strong Contingent of stttderits throughout the 'rink . . \ Reported attendance for the game was roughly 1,750, and ·Have ·No He·art, Will Not Trav·el over Army and .another patheti\c some pledge class bonding at a student turnoiit. ·Jim Croce com- hockey game would not hurt the mentedontheturnoutby saying ever-depleting school sp·irit. over· th~ ~ir, that ._.'the '3'tud~·i1ts · ·~h.er~ is an exception to this ver- wereprotesting the building of a:. hal attack-: the brothers of Chi new rink~' White.thisjsa viable Psi showed once again how to ' ers on the weekend fraternity scene? The hockey rink issue could have been a great moment to bring an otherwise stagnant cam- pus together. For a total of two weeks and one RPI game, it seemed that this might happen. However, as all good things must end, so has the rink issue in the hearts of the students. Last week there was a big deal made over a sign exclaiming, \If you b!Jild it, we won't come!\ Why bother with signs and peti- tions for our old rink? The new slogan for the students on the rink issue should be, \We don't come, but we like to complain.\ * * * * * * * * * Just in case the NFL Pro Bowl was not boring enough, the won- derful people at ABC had to put the game on during prime time. Thel7e were two home hockey games held tb·is past weekend, and judging by the student tum- ·out not many -of the students fig- ured out that we still have a hockey rink. Friday night, the D1..1tchmen took on ECAC oppo- nent Brown. They won the game 4-2 after struggling for mo~t of the .night, .but an estimated 2000 of the Union students heard the final score via the proverbial grape vine. _First PeritJd against BrtJwn (Jn Friday nigllt Turnout as poor as play; (Rick Lederer I TC) The NBA breailied a collective sigh of relief this week asMichael Jordan announced that he wi II not retire at the end of the season. Now, if Dennis Rodman would only quit, commissioner David Stern might be happy. only a small percentageofstudent optmon ofthe situation, the real-- be .faJtfifui to a program. On Friday, Achilles resembled something of a cross between a senior dtizen center and an el- ementary school. Yes, the student section W<\S about three-quarters full, but it was not the students who fiHed our bam. Besides the brothers of Chi Psi who were in tickets was sold. When one uni- isticapproach is thatthe students The campus must have also dentified student in the ticket of- · were just lazy. thought that it was a lot of trouble fice was asked aboutthe number Yes, pledging has started for to attend this weekends games, of complimentary tickets given to some houses, and' rush continues especially to take a short walk on students for the week, the student for the others, but you would a snowy Friday night. Now we gave a pu;z;zled look and then think that the Greeks could hold know why the students do not stated that it would be a lot of off on their activities for a few want a new rink built and why trouble to find out. hours. Instead of getting an early they are so afraid of change. Did One did not have to be a fan of the Buffalo Bills to realize that Jim Kelly was a class act. Saturday was a Union blowout start on the tenn 's hazing, maybe anyone notice a shortage of drink- As another season of Major League Baseball quickly ap- proaches, there is still no I ight in the tunnel of finding a commis- sioner. When will Bud Seligjust admit he is a tyrant? Useless Nonsense and Utter Rabble The. E'agle has left, and the Blackhawks are clueless by Josh \Sparky\ Adams De\Vout Disciple of the Union College Sports Staff United Center, in this era where sponsorship is like vomit. It is ev- erywhere. It has more sky boxes, more food stands, a bigger 8- sided scoreboard where moronic looney tunes cartoons are played As a life long Chicago after each idiotic penalty the Blackhawks fan, I can sympa- Blackhawks take, and it also has thize with the agony of being a more angry fans! Union College hockey fan. The The future looks very bleak in Dutchmen have never been to the the years to come. There will be NCAA Tourney, and constantly a day where the fans who are pay- tantalizetheirfanswithexciting ing 100,000 a year fo;r their and sometimes traumatizing sea- skyboxes are n~~ going to want sons. to risk their lives by driving down AsfortheHawks,theyhaven't to Chicago's venerable West won the Cup since '61, and each Side, just to see a mediocre year they end the season with a hockey dub. big letdown for the fans. This past The one goal scorer they have week; they traded 2 time Vezina now, Tony Amonte, who is on Trophy winner Eddie Bel four to pace to score 51 goals this sea- the San Jose Sharks. son, will be a free agent nextyear. This was the second time this No doubt he will want superstar year that the Blackhawks have rrtoney; something Wirtzdoesn 't gotten r.id of a marque name, shell out for anyone, except to the Jeremey Roenick flew the coop liquor store clerk. in August because Bill Wirtz, the While otherteanis solidify their owner ofthe team, would not pay future by drafting young talent or sign new players. By playoff tinie, the Hawks are stuck in the fourth or the fifth spot in ilie per- petuaJ.ly weak Western C0nfer- ence.. And each year, they win their first round game, and then getblown to pieces byeitherDe-. trait or Colorado. Every season, they come across the same problems. There is only one player caring the team. Amante this year, and Roenick in thepast. Whenwillthetimecome. when the owners realize that to actually win something, in$tead · of giving the fans the old r.un · around each year, it takes more than one person. Wirtz may be too hung over, or just plain stupid to come to the conclusion that most people on the face of this earth are not go- ing to throw their money away to sit and watch a dilapidated hockey team get out skated for 60 min- . utes each night. Hey, at least the Blackhawks got a new rink. 2/07- 2/08- 2/07- 2/08- 2/07 .. 2/08 ~ 2/08- Men's Hockey @Clarkson @St. Lawrence Women's Basketball @Clarkson @St. Lawrence - Men's Basketball @Clarkson @St. Lawrence Swimming 7:30 7:00 6:00 2:00 8:00 4:00 2:00 J.R. the 5 million dollar per year and slowly cultivate a hockey @St Lawrence ~~ili~~WM~.H~~~ d~M~~~~qoBI~h~s~-----------~----------------------~ management still demand let everything go down the drain. bundles of money for the overly Dollar Bill, as the fahs affection- priced seats, where at times, oxy- ately call the perpetually drunk gen tanks are a required necessity. owner,. is in such a haze, that he This is the first season in almost probably doesn't (ealize what is twenty years that the Black:hawks going on with his team. Ever since are in danger of not making the his father bought the team in playoffs. Perhaps that would seE.d 1930, the Wirtz family has made a message to the hull-headed a mockery of this once proud management oftheorganization, team. telling them that it takes more Each year, they tease everyone then a fla,shy new stadium to win ·by saying that this year's team a championship. .will be more competitive, which Houses/ Apartments 1997-1998 • 3 to 8 Bedrooms • All Appliances • Parking Remodeled • Carpet • Call 370-5498 J. -~e~ewuena;-ca~~dJhe ·~~yfu~-i~n9aood~trad~ ~----~-------~-~--~--~~~~~~·~·~·~~~~~~~~~~

Skating Dutchmen Win in Land of Oz Come Back Against Brown (4-2)J Shell Army (8-1) by J<Onathan G~stiJalter Sports Edit()r The Union College Skating Dutchmen faced off against the last place BrownUniversity Bears on Friday night at Achi lies Rink in a cmcia:l game for Un.ion. A Union win would put them insev- enth place in the ECAC and would contribute to a potenti.al home-ice playoff game. The Dutchmen. who had Brown snap their six-game win streak back on January ll.werelookingfora big win and a chance to move up in the standings. The tean1.s took the ice in front of 1,791 fans and with Leeor Shtrom starting in goal for the third cotl:secutive time. The Dutchmen had a couple of scor- rng chances early but were shut- down by Bears goaltender Brian Audette. From that early point on, the B-ears dominated play, control! ins the puck and notal- lowing Union out of its own zone The Dutchtnen could not connect on their passes and did not keep up their hittin-g, and the Brown forecheck h.eld strong, forcing the Union def~nsemen deep intotheir own zone. The Brown pressure on the Uni()n defense worked, as Jade Kersey took a pass from Bob Quinnell and put the puck by Shtrom to give the Bears a 1-0 lead. Jus:t over a minute later, Dam ian Prescott beat Union's defense and fired a wrist-shot that ~ ~~ ,t. - -:.,,cr. ' :· . ....... CoJJtbweti 011 pagt? 17 Breut Ozarowshi skates past au Arm}' Blacf• K11igltt ill UJJiOJI's 8-1 rout. Ozaruwski had a hat-trick to lead tile Dutchmen. Pltot(J Rick Lederer lTC Men's Basketball Splits Another Tough Weekend by Frank Rossi Staff Writer It was11\'t a nuke. The Union College men's basketball team impressed an above average crowd this weekend with an importnnt victory and a heroic comeback as they defeated Hamilton College Friday night 84-77 and n~rrowly lost to Hobart College on Saturday night 62-59. With the win, the Dutch~nen have new won three out of their last four games. ~oh TeCarr de[elld!/ agaillst.a 1lnmiltm1 'l-vt•~li~t:\ (Scott Dmekr11Nier / TC') After two wins against RP.l and Skidmore the previous weekend, the Dutchmen faced a tougher foe in Hamilton. The schools always play each other tough as a rivalry of sorts has formed. This year, however, Hamilton is ranked in its region, and a contir'luation of Union's two-game winning looked slim. The Dutchmen du- eled Hamilton to a one-poiflt. game at the end of the first half as Hamilton led 42-41. Hamilton's shooting went cold in tl1esecond halfas they shot only 34.4 percent against the Dutchmen's 46.7 percent. This, combined with sophomore Rob Groelz's 33 points, helped to bring the Dutchmen ahead of Hamilton for good. Groelz made six of his ten three-point attempts, and his ef- fort was padded by senior Doyin Richards, who bad 16 points and nine rebounds, and junior Rob TeCarr, who had 15 points. Groclz, who leads the team with 14.1 points per game, has seen has scoring and overall play improve over tl1e last two weeks. He sUited, ''I've played with a lot of conlidence lately.\ and he added that Rob TeCarr and lie have been in sync as they have gained awareness of where each other is cturirtg the past weeks. Speaking of Rob TeCarr. he ha<i an interesting night on Satur- day against Hobart. The Dutch- menstarted out miserably in the first half as they trailed by as many as 19 points and shoUt lack- luster 28.6 percent from the field (against Hobart's 54.8 percent). The40-22 Hobart lead impressed the large Hobart contingent that tra'Veled to· the Memorial Fie1dhGuse, but they were about to witness Union's largest come- back since the Hartwick game last season. TeCarr made five of his 15 three pointers. most in the sec- ond haiL ar1d Groelz's three pointer with 2:48 left tied the game at 58-58. Rich Gi1ooly hit one of two free throws soon at1er to give Union its only lead, 59- 58. f'lobart was able to rattle off fbm straight points. the last two with <Jl1e secor\d rema.ilaing .on the • shot clock, to take the lead 62-59. TeCarr was forced to shoot a desparation three pointer, which was no good., giving the Hobart Statesmen the 62-59 victory. TeCarr had 19 points on the night, and Zena Woldeyesus was the Dutchmen's second leading scorer with 12. Doyin Richards added ten poi 11ts and eight re- bounds, and freshman Rich Gilooly pulled down seven boards. They had trouble stop- ping Hobart's John Hatch, who led his team with 16 points. and Brennan Morgan, whose jumper with I :43 left gave Hobart the lead for good. Morgan hit all ~hree of his sl10ts and both of his free throws for nine points. Coach Monta11a has been im- pressed with his players· im- provement over the last few weeks. He said, \The key thing, from a coachirtg standpoint, is we hope \Ve're mat1.1ri11g as a team. The two wins at Rensellaer and Skidmore brottght us to a new level of confidence so that we couldgct it done.\ He is also happy about the emergence of Rob Groelz and Rob TeCarr, as Contitmetl pagt! 16

Skating Dutchmen Win in Land of Oz c()/}1(! B(lCk Ag·(lil1SI Brolvn (4-2), 5)/Jc!l Ari11JJ (8-1) h~· .Jnnathan Gasthalter Sports Editor The llnion Colkge Skating DutchJnL'n 1~\Cl:'d orr against thl' la~t place Bnl\\n l hmersitv Bears on Fnd;tv mght at .'\chilll's Rmk in a crucial game for Union J\ I 'nion \\ill \\OUid rut them in sev- enth place in the LCJ\C and '' ould cnntnhute to a potential hnmL'-JCc plavoll game The Dutchmt'IL \ho had Hnm n o;nar thc1r \''·t'ame \111 stn:;tk hack on .lanuarv I I \\ere look Ill!,! I(Jra hig \\ 111 and ;t chance to 11lll\ e ur in the standings The teams took the ice Ill rront of' 1. 79 I fans and with l.eeor Shtrnm starting 111 goal for the third consccutt\C t1me The I )utchmen had a coupll' of scor- 111t! chances earl\ hut were shut- du\\11 h' Hear:-. t!oaltL'Illkr Bnan .\ udette hum th;tt earh potnt un. the I k;tr~ domttl<tted pia\ L'(Jlltrnlllll):! the pud. and not ai- J, 1\\ mg I: II loll out of Its 1 l\\ n ;one I he I )utchmen could not connect on their passes ;m.J did not keep up their hittlllg. and the l~nmn furcchcck held strong. fun.:lllg the I Jnton dctensemen deep into their o\vn /one The Brown pressure on the l !n1on detense worked. as .lade Kersey took a pass from Boh Quinnell and rut the puck hy Shtrom to give the Beurs a 1-0 lead .lust over a minute later_ Dam ian Prescott heat lJninn 's dctensc and fired a \vrist-shot that Continued on page 17 Brent 0-;.armvski skate.\\ pa.\·t a11Army Black Knight in l 'nion's 8-1 rout. O~arowsk.i fwd a lwt-tricli. to lead the Dutcltmen Photo Rick Lederer lTC Men's Basketball Splits Another Tough Weekend by hank Hossi Stt~ff Writer It \\asn't a !luke. The I inion Colkg.c men's basketball team impressed an abm·e a\erage cnmd this \\cekend \\ ith an important\ ictor~ ami a heroic comeback as they defeated llamilton ( 'olkgc Friday nigJH X-l-77 and narnm ly lost to IInhart Cnllcg.e on Saturday night. 62-59. With the ''in. the Dutchmen ha\e no\\ \\on three out oftheir last four games. ·----- .. ----~-~-- ............. ~~-­ Roh TeCarr defeiUis against a Hamilton College player. (Scott Druck miller l T(] After two\\ ms against RPI and Sk 1dmore the pre\ to us \\eekcnJ. the Dutchmen l~tcl:'d a t(1ughcr t(Je Ill I lam il tnn The schools a h\ a\ s ria\ each othl'r tough as,! rt\ alr:-- ot' sorts has furml:'d llu~ \ e<tf. ll\l\\e\LT, J!.Jmtltull IS [dllh.eJ Ill lb regllliL anJ .l Clllltllllldtiull uf l:nion's t\\o-gamc \\Illlltllg luukl'J sl11ll The DutchlllCII du- eled Hamilton to a onc-pomt game at the end of the first half as Hamilton led 42-41 !lam ilton· s shooting went cold in the second half as they shot onl:-- 34 4 percent against the Dutchmen ·s 46 7 percent Th1s. combined \vith sophomore Roh (iroclz' s 33 roints. helped to hnng the Dutchmen ahead of Hamilton for good. (iroelz made six of his ten three-point attempts. and his ef- j()rt was padded hv senior Dovin Richards.\\ ho had 16 points <lllJ nine rebounds. and junior Rob TeCarr. \vho had 15 points Groclz. ·who leads the team with 14 I polllh per game. ha~ seen has SCOfll1g ;md ()\Crall plm llllf\lW\e ll\ er the I <1st I\\ o \\ L'ek:-. lie stated ... ,.\c pla\l·d \\lth ~tlut of cunfldence latch.· <llld he added that Roh TeCarr and he ha \ e OL'ell in s\llC as thn ha' L' gamed ;marl'ncss of,\here each other 1~ dunng the past \\Ceb Speak 1ng u !' Ruh I cC.tr L he had anllltl'rc:-.tmg lllgllt on Satur- J,t\ a~.tlllst llllh<tr t JilL.: DutLh- IIICII st;lltl:'J Ull( 1111!->Cl ,tbl\ Ill the flr~t hal r as the\ tralkJ h as lll<lll\ as Ill pu111ts ctnJ :-hut .tl.tck- luster 2X (1 percent from the ftcld (agamst llohart's :)4 X percent) The 40-22llohart lead impressed the large llobart contingent that traveled tn the Memorial Fieldhouse. hut the\ were ahout to witness lJ ntnn · s 1 argest come- hack since the llartmck game last season TeCarr made five of his 15 three pointers. most in the sec- ond halL and (iroclz's three pomter With 2 4X left tied the game at SX-5R Rtch Giloolv hit one o I two free throws soon a ti:er to g.iH l!niun its onh le<tJ. 59- SK I !obart \Yas ahle to rattle otT four straight points. the last two with one second remaining on the :-hot clock. to take the lead 62-)IJ Td ·a rr \\a~ forced to shoot <l Jesparat1on three po111teL \\h1eh \\a~ nu good. gi\ ing the lloh<Jrt Swtesmen the h::'.-)L) 'tctor\ Tel 'arr haJ ]l) putnts on the mght. anJ I.L·na \\'(Jiue\ esus ''as the Dutchmen's seconJ kad1111:! :>corer\\ tth 1::'. Dll\ Ill R1chards <~JJcJ ten po111ts anJ ctt::ht re- h llll 11 d ~ ' <Ill J f r 0 h Ill <111 R I c h (iilu(lh puii..:J Ju\\11 c-L\L'll hll,l!J.) I IlL'\ h.tJ lhlllhk :-till'· p111g lluhart·s John !latch. \\ho lcJ hts tedlll \\ lth I(, po111ts. ,tn,l Brennan Morgan.\\ hose jumper with I 43 left gave Hohart the lead for good Morgan h1t all three of his shots and hoth of his free throws for n inc points Coach Montana has heen Im- pressed \\lth his pla\ers· im- provement over the last fe\\ weeks lie s~ud. \The key thing. from acoachmg standpomt. IS \\e hope we· rc maturing as a team The two\\ 1ns at Rensellaer and Skidmore hrought us to a ne\\ level of confidence so that \\C ...:ouidgct it done .. 1 Ie 1s also happy about the emergence of Roh Ciroelz and Rob TeCarr. as Cnuthm erl page /(j

page A- Some Prefer Canada pageS · S~rts: Swimming Triumphs page16 The Studelit Newspaper of Union College Since 18 77 ......,..._.._. ' ' ' . ' . . . ' ' - ~ . Vohin-ic CXXVL Numhcr XII · . · . ScJJcnccta<,iy: 'Ne\v York · · .·:: · ... ·. · .. ·:. · ··.:.: ·E~brct~l'\\;.l.1--tfi91' ~~-----~-.,--, ~~ 0 0 .• 0 ' 0 ',''\\\:·A. • • ._.,· Creativity Brings out the Genius in U . . - - - - by Stephanie Slob()tkin News Edit()!! . , On February &~~;;~~,Union College's Found~rs D£i.'Convo- cation marked the 202nd.Anni- versary of the Gran.ti~g~ of the College Charter. MelJWrial Chapel's first floor p.ews were filled with faculty~ staff, stqdents~ and trustees. After formal greetings by Presi- dent Hull, Manuel Cunanan '97, President 'of the Student Forum, George M. Butterstein, Prgfessor of Life Scien9es, and Joseph M Hinchey '47, Chairman of the Board of Trustee_s, and Linda E. Cool, Dean ofFaculty, presented the candidates for the Gideon Hawley Teacher Recognition Award. Shooting Hoops Instead of Hazing by Michelle Neier Staff Writer As a result oflast ye~r's haz- ing incident, Delta Delta :b~1ta held the Delta Jam basketb-all aod Brian Hava. In the women's -division the winners were Beth Wierzbieniec, Mindy Cohen, and Shelley Rourke. Second place winners received $75 per team .. Dan Queen, Steve Hoyt, and J tou~ament this pa~t .. ~j~qa.J,i.£:, son Kellman came in second for thefteldhouse.'Theeventrmsed the men and Shako Okado, money for EileenStevenstoco'pre speak this week about he·i- sort's· death in a hazi11g incident.. A huge success, there were 93 people participating in the tour- nament and a large number of people lending their support. The event was organized by sophomores, Slo-ane Silver and Laurel Cronin. Both women were pleased with the turnout and the involvement of Union and the outside community. The food available at the games was do- nated by DiQing Services and Pepsi also donated drinks .. Other area businesses su<;h as Price Chopper donated money for the event. Impressively, every na- tional and local Greek organiza- tion at Union contributed money to the event. All of the money from the Greek societies was used to pay for the tee shirts. Money which was paid by the players is bei11g used to' have Eileen Stevens come speak. Players paid $5 for admission into the tournament, $8 for admission plus a tee-shirt, or students could purchase just a tee- shirt for $6. There was a great diversity among everyone participating at the games and everyone seemed to be having a great time.. Stu- · dents from all class years partici- pated in the anti-hazing basket- ball jam. One freshman, Steve Sierpina said, \I had a great time and it made me more aware that people are fighting against haz- ing on campus\ .. The first place teams received $125 each. The three first place winners in the men's division were Todd Danhauser, BiiJ Bahrs, .INSIDE: Ahn~~:Zut~o, .and Susan Joyal ~carii~dr:f:.~~oi£ci. far·tJ1(,. ·women. In conversation, Sloane and Lam:el both agreed that they were pleased with the Delta Jam and hope to make it an annual event. Laurel said, \We had a great turn- out. We hope this is an indica- tion that people will be more aware of alcohol and hazing\ .. They mentioned that they hoped this event will raise consciousness both for upperclassmen and for freshman who ate not always cog- nizant ofthe possible dangers in- volved in pledging. Often they are swayed by peer pressure and the members of Tri-Delta hope that this will instill them with more power to assert their rights. As a route to educate people on the dangers of alcohol and haz- ing, the organizers made available cop-ies of the schools policy on alcohol use and hazing. Accord- ing to official pol icy Union Col- lege prohibits \any action taken or situation created intentionally, whether on or off fraternity pre- mJses, to produce mental or physical discomfort, embarrass- ment, harassment, or ridicule or any action whicl) recklessly en- dangers the physical or mental health, safety, or welfare of a per- son\ (page 83 of the Student Handbook). They also provided information regarding Eileen Stevens who has \waged a na- tional campaign to eliminate all dangerous physical and mental hazing practices\. Although the event seemed to be a great suc- cess, its actual impact on the stu- dent body will be visible only af- ter this year's rush season is over. Campui> News ..................................... 2 Ophlions!Editorial.~ ......... ................ 6 According to Cool; the award recognizes that which lies in the heart of,ed.ucation. \The ~each­ ers inspire students to reac~_iev­ e]sofun!limited creativity ,\Cool said. The firstbigh school teacher was nominated by_ Steven Mortefolio. Mortefolio's teacher, Penelope Reed, ofLawrenqeville, New Jersey at Lawr~nceviHe School is \not just a t~acl)er\ ~ut a friend,\ wrote Mortefolio in his application. \She knew all the details about their lives,\ he con- tinued. The next Gideon award was nominated by Christina Rho and given to her teacher. Preston Hayes of Glenview, Illinois, at Glenbrook South High School. In Rho's application she said, \never did I challenge nwselfmorethan I did in his class ... he respected our efforts and we respected him.\ The third nomination was by Sa~neer Sayeed who found his teacher, Roger Richardson, of Locust Valley, New York at Friends Academy, worthy of the Gideon. In his essay Sayeed said, \as my physics teacher he would accept nothing less than the colltittued on .page 3 ':•-.; 'Civilizing' Rio: Professor Meade's Latest Book by Bhavani Meduri Staff Writer Theresa Meade's new book, 'Civilizing' Rio, takes an in depth look at the urban renewal in Rio de J aneito from 1888-1910. The book follows the evolution of Brazil's capital city from an area characterized by its slums and tenements to one that recre- ated the architectural style and ambiance of such fashionable European cities as Paris and Lon- don. Professor Meade shows that this change was not due to chance but was the careful planning of Brazil's central government and its wealthy elite. Their vision of the new Rio de Janeiro did not include a place for its poor. A de- li berate effort was made to rid the continued on page 3 Features ..................................................... 8 Glob a/News .... ......................... . 12 Arts and Entertainment ...... , . ................... 1 0 /::,'ports ..... .................................. 16

Campus: Features: Sports: Zurmuhlen 's Photo Career page A Why Some Prefer Canada pageS Swimming Triumphs page 16 Creativity Brings out the Genius in U by Stephanie Slobotkiu News Editor On February 8, Union College's Founders Day Convo- cation marked the 202nd Anni- versary of the Granting of the College Charter. Memorial Chapel's first floor pews were filled with faculty, staff, students, and trustees. Afterfonnal greetings by Presi- dent Hull, Manuel Cunanan '97, Presidellt of the Student Forum, George M. Butterstein, Professor of Life Sciences, and Joseph M Hinchey '47, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, and Linda E. CooL Dean of Faculty, presented the candidates for the Gideon Hawley Teacher Recognition Award. Shooting Hoops Instead of Hazing by Michelle Neier Staff Writer As a result of last year's haz- ing incident, Delta Delta Delta held the Delta Jam basketball tournament this past Saturday in the field house. The event rai~ed money for Eileen Stevens to come speak this week about her son's death in a hazing incident. A huge success, there were 93 people participating in the tour- nament and a large number of people lending their support The event was organized by sophomores, Sloane Silver and Laurel Cronin. Both women were pleased with the turnout and the involvement of Union and the outside community The food available at the games was do- nated by Dil)ing Services and Pepsi also donated drinks. Other area businesses such as Price Chopper donated money for the event Impressively, every na- tional and local Greek organiza- tion at Union contributed money to the event. All of the money from the Greek societies was used to pay for the tee shirts Money which was paid by the players is heing used to have Eileen Stevens come speak Players raid 'f;:'i for admission into the tournament. $R for admission rlus a tee-shirt or students could rurchasejust a IL'l'- shirt for $A There was a great diversity among everyone participating at the games and everyone seemed to be having a great time. Stu- dents from all class years partici- pated in the anti-hazing basket- ball jam. One freshman, Steve Sierpina said, \I had a great time and it made me more aware that people are fighting against haz- ing on campus\ The first place teams received $125 each. The three first place winners in the men's division were Todd Danhauser, Bill Bahrs, and Brian Hava. In the women's division the winners were Beth Wierzbieniec, Mindy Cohen, and Shelley Rourke. Second place winners received $75 per team. Dan Queen, Steve Hoyt, and Ja- son Kellman came in second for the men and Shako Okada, Aimee Zullo, and Susan Joyal came in second for the women. In conversation, Sloane and Laurel both agreed that they were pleased with the Delta Jam and hope to make it an annual event. Laurel said, \We had a great tum- out. We hope this is an indica- tion that people wi II be more aware of alcohol and hazing\. They mentioned that they hoped this event will raise consciousness both for upperclassmen and for freshman who are not always cog- nizant ofthe possible dangers in- volved in pledging. Often they are swayed by peer pressure and the members of Tri-Delta hope that this will instill them with more power to assert their rights. As a route to educate people on the dangers of alcohol and haz- ing, the organizers made available copies of the schoo1s policy on alcoho !use and hazing Accord- ing to official policy t Jnion Col- lege rn,hihits ''any action taken or sitt1•1tion created intentionally, \\ hcthcr (ln or off fmtcrnitv rrl'- tnl'il'S. tn rrnduce menta] or physical discomfort, embarrass- ment. llmassment or ndicule or any acti<m whicb recklessly en- dangers the physical or mental health, safety, or wei fare of a per- son\ (page 83 of the Student Handbo()k). They also provided information regarding Eileen Stevens who has \waged a na- tional campaign to eliminate all dangerous physical and mental hazing practices\. Although the event seemed to be a great suc- cess, its actual impact on the stu- dent body will be visible only af- ter this year's rush season is over. According to Cool, the award recognizes that which lies in the heart of education. 'The teach- ers inspire students to reach lev- els of unlimited creativity,\ Cool said. The first high school teacher was nominated by Steven Mortefolio. Mortefol io's teacher, Penelope Reed, of Lawrenceville, New Jersey at Lawrenceville School is \not just a teacher, but a friend,\ wrote Mortefolio in his application. \She knew all the details about their I ives,\ he con- tinued. The next Gideon award was nominated by Christina Rho and given to her teacher, Preston Hayes of Glenview, Illinois, at Glenbrook South I Iigh School. In Rho's application she said, \never did I challenge 1nyselfmore than I did in his class he respected our efforts and we respected him \ The third nomination \vas hy Sameer Sayeed who found his teacher, Roger Richardson, of Locust Valley, New York at Friends Academy, worthy ofthe Gideon. In his essay Sayeed said. \as my physics teacher he would accept nothing less than the continued on page 3 'Civilizing' Rio: Professor Meade's Latest Book by Bhavani Meduri Staff Writer Theresa Meade's new book, 'Civilizing' Rio, takes an in depth look at the urban renewal in Rio deJaneiro from 1888-1910. The book follows tlle evolution of Brazil's capital city from an area characterized by its slums and tenements to one that recre- ated the architectural style and ambiance of such fashionable European cities as Paris and Lon- don. Professor Meade shows that this change was not due to chance but was the careful planning of Brazil's central government and its wealthy elite Their vision of the new Rio de Janeiro did not include a place for its poor. A de- liberate effort '-\US made to rid the continued on page .1 . '. ' ' . ~ ., ' ' ' ' . . ·'• . . . ' ~. . . •' . . . ' : . . \' . .. ' . . : . . . . . : . ' ; . , . _· . . Camplt.\' News ............... .................... 2 Features ................. ...... . (ito hal News .... .I~ .INSIDE:.·, . . 0 pin io 11.'>-11 idi tori a /.1·. . . . . .......... . ..... 6 Arts and F,ntertainment }() Sports f(J

Campus Info UNION COLLEG~ CAMPUS SAFETY DEPAR~MENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, FEBRUARY3,1997THROUGHSUNDAY,FEBRUARY9,1997 Group Ho.using · The Student Affairs Council (SACJ invites proposals from groups that would like group housing. At present there is one Zl-person space open in Chester Arthur. Interested groups should submit a DATE/TIME LOCATION- MONDAY, FEBRUARY3, 1997: ll:OOAM . Fox.North proposal to the SAC c/o Dean of S1udents Office, 306 Reamer · 2:00PM Campus Center. The SAC will weigb 1he following criteria in evalu- '· North Entry Road ating proposals. 1. Will the group use the space to improve the intellectual and soCiaJ climate of the campus? 2. Are there 21 students who are committed to living in the house? Proposals should be submitted before March 15, 1997. 11:53 PM West College TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1997: 8:15AM · NorthCollege 4:00PM Reamer Center The Student Affairs Council will be conducting a review process for • housing renewal for Sigma Delta Ta.u, Kappa Alpha, and Bronner 9: IOPM House. Those who would like to snaretlleir impressions()fany of the houses should submit comments by February 17, 1997, in writing to: North College Prof. Hugh Jenkins., SAC Chair English Department Humanities Building Construction Update Latest News! . . WEDNESDAY, FE.BRUARY 5, 1997: ' 11 :25 PM Social Science . THURSDA \',FEBRUARY 6, 1997: ;l :25.AM South Terrace Lane . Self-Serve Copy Machines 11ow available in: North J:JO AM. Davidson South Colonnade's All-Night Study. Use your Library Debit Card, · .. coins or bills. Open 24 hours. Alternate Stlldy Areas • Upperclass Dining Hall, 9 PM t() 2 AM, Sunday-Thursday. • West Dining Hall, 9 PM to2 AM, Sunday- Thursday-\ • North Colonnade (the former psychol()g)' building), all-night study. • Social Sciences, first floor, all-night study. • The third-floor study area of the Nott Metn().ri.al remains open h()tn noon to 10 PM Sunday through Thursday, and no()n to 5 PM Friday and Sa1urday. ATTENtiON. .. ATTENTlON ... ATTENTION!! Due to the overwhelming response we've had te the \HELP BUILD A UNION AGAINST CHURCH BURNINGS'' dinner on Feb. 18, we cannot possibly accomodate everyone who h~s signed up. We are also conc~rned that there may IJe some confusion about actu- ally attending the dinner and wanting to donate to this W()lthy cause. Therefore, we are asking every<me again to either sign up to definitely attend the dinner for 1 meal punch, or donate up to $3.00 from your declining balance, or both. Please do not sign ll]) for the dinner unless you seriously plan to attend, since only the first 300 to sign up can be accomodated. Committee members will again be circu- lating with sign-up sheets, or you can sign up at the Dining Services main office in Reamer CC 202. You must do so by Friday, February 14, at 12:00 noon. We apologize for any inconveniences that this rna)' have caused, and again, thank you for your support.- UC's C()mlllittee on FRIDAY,FEBRUARY7, 1997: 1:54AM South Lane Area 11 :lOAM Psi Upsilon I :55 PM North College 4:45PM Richmond Lot 5:30PM Social Science SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1997: 3:06AM Reamer Center 1-C_h_u_r_c_h_B_u_r_n_in~g_s ________________ ~_-'1 7 : 03 AM North Lane WELLS HOUSE: HEALTH ISSUES MONTH Feb. 13 at 7PM PROMISCUITY AND SEXUALITY This social discussion group debates how sex effects our lives. ~re different views actepted at Union? Must RSVP ~oci()Jogy Departerne11tt() attend. Feb. 20 at 7PM AIDS AND RAPE Two for one: Campus AIDS experts taU{ ab .. u t tile history, developments, and effects of AIDS. SAFE SPACE presentatio11 of Awareness anchex crimes .. I 1:20AM West College 2:00PM West College . 6:50PM Davidson SUNDAY, FEBRUARY9, 1997: 6:32AM Psi Upsilon \INCIDENT SAFETY HAZARD:. Fire hazard created due to improper use and wiringofhalogen lamps. Conduct Charges filed. THEFT: Studentlost Credit Card holder containing cash. Item was found but cash wasmtssmg. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student became ill due tQ consumption of aJcoholicbeverage. Conduct Charges filed. SAF,ETY/HEALTH HAZARD: Check building for air quality hazards. Building checked-no evident problem. PROPERTY MiSSING: Sound equipment miss irig from Student Activities storage area- poss.ible theft. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odo~ofrl}arijuana reported. Source located. ConductCharges filed. UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS: Faculty t:}'lember's computer accessed without autho rization. RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: Food vendor drove vehicle across sidewalks to makeadelivery . FJRE/RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: Unkn()wn person(s) set papers on bulletin board afire. Created serious risk to aU resi dents. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. RECOVERED PROPERTY: Suspicious person reported to be carrying kitchen equip ment Suspect not located butequipment a.f!.d utensils found abandoned. Items in custody of campus safety-unclaimed. Anyone miss ing kitchen equipment please contact cam pus safety to inquire. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Campus Opera tions responded to no heat call-determined . that thermostat had been damaged. Cause undetennined. SAFETY /HEALTH CONCERN: Mediate disagreement between students regarding smoking in building. · PARKING VIOLATION: Vehicleii.nmo- bilized .. Repeat unregistered violations. THEFT: Student's backpack left mom en tarily unattended . Backpack and contents stolen. Personal papers later found in trash container. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Group of students attempting to gain access to the building ac cidentally broke door latch. EMERGENCY PHON~: Student improp- erly activated emergency telephone. VANDALISM: Third floor men's room. Shower curtain and wall tiles damaged. THEFT: Sofa from 4th floor lounge mi.s- sing. EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION: Over- loadedwaslling machine caused light smoke and buming odor in basement. VANDALISM/LIFE SAFETY VIOLA .. TION: Entry door propped open. Damage found to fire system and stairway handrail. Steam lea:k in basement-plurrtbers notified. I s b \ n p t ( ' l (

Campus News · · 'i?rl IT ·. · · · · . . _ · 1;!,1 Jc Ql~~tt('orut.cnsts ·.February 1 3~ l997 • Page 3 . . ' Onward & 'Ppward for Leif Zurmuhlen Art Department's Photo Lab Tech Leaves Union for Photography Career By Sari Leivent Contributing Writer After four and a half years as photo lah technician in the Visual A,rts Depart- ment, Leif Zurmuhlen is leaving Union to concentrate full time on . women. With black and white photographic portraits and per- sonal interviews, this hard cover gift book will focus on positive, his free- lance pho- tography career. His current project, \The Right Side of Forty,\ a collabora- tion with au- thor Patricia Martin will be released \Sandy Wimer 1996,\ photo by LeifZu'rmuhlen~ in November 1997 by Conan Press. \The Right Side of Forty\ is a book that celebrates timeless dynamic diverse womenwho are overtheageofforty. \The Right Side ofForty\will showcase over l:rP Educating for Black History Month ~y Aileen Quigley Assistant News Editor Dr. Claudia Wint, analumnaof SUNY Albany and well-known lecturer on African-American is- sues, shared her expertise with the Un.ion community on Thursday, February 6, 1997. Her talk was sponsored in part by the Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority, Inc. and is part of a series -of events being held in recognition of Black His- tory Month. Professionally, she focuses on reexamining historical events for afro-centric accuracy and exploring the avenues of \contemporary black religion.\ She began by highlighting sig- nificant figures and events from pre-colonial African history and illustrating the modem-day impli- cations of their influence. Edu- cation, she defined, was a \dis- creet body of knowledge\ which women have excelled at refining and passing on to other genera- tions. Black women on pre- Emancipation Southern planta- tions assumed the role of holding their families together despite their position of social and eco- nomic powerlessness. They took great risks in trying to educate the other slaves, Wint states, braving the possibility of being treated harshly or even maimed should the \Masta\' find out. Thus, the slaves faked ignorance to avoid the repercussions of taking part in what Wint referred to as \an act of personal liberation.\ The slaves were willing to take this risk in the hopes that with the \acquisition of• skills, economic and social justice would follow.\ They would study in the kitchens of their quarters after the field ·work was done, usually from the hours of 11:00 PM to 3:00 AM. The morning's routine .would re- convene at 5:00-AM, allowing the slaves about two hours of sleep per night. Wint used this as an example ofthecommitmeftt to learning of both the students who put the effort forth to study and the slave women who dedicated · this timeto teach them. Neverthe- less, it was a price these women - were willing to pay to create this opportunity for education in pur- suitofthe \central goal of an edu- cated family.\ During this time, the catechism method was a com- mon teaching technique, in which the teacher read material to the students, who memorized it and read it back to her. In the post-Emancipation pe- riod, Wint reemphasized the im- pactof African-American women on education. Under the doctrine of the Freedman's Bureau of 1865, the opportunities for women in the teaching profession increased. She cited several fanner slaves who distinguished themselves as educators, includ- ing Lucy Craft Laney, who set up one of the first kindergartens in . 1890; Mary McCloud Bethune, who founded the National Coun- cil for Negro Women, and Kathleen Ferguson, who was among the first to incorporate the catechism method of teaching in the school she established in her name. These women were some of the leaders of the ne~ork of educators that sought to bring equality to education in the Afri- can-American community. Throughout her lecture, Wint · emphasized the importance of a mother's role in the education of her family, as well as the cohe- sive bond between members that her effort generated. The historical imp~ct of the efforts of these women is still noted to this day, she states, and will be felt for generations to come. fifty women, fmm actresses and artists to entrt:preneurs and grand- mothers. Zurmuhlen and Martin hope to challenge and transcend conventional stereotypes by revealing their • subjects spir- . ited natures and unveiling their u n i tihib ited - beauty. The collabo- -ration of Zurm uhlen.' s. fine arts talents with Martin's _ written words will capture an interesting per- spective of the female persona. \The Right · Side of Forty\ reveals the beauty of a dif- ferent age. old woman. Zurmuhlen captures the visible beauty of these dy- namic women, and Martin fo- cuses on the personal history , reader to a showcase of timeless beauty, confidence, and spirit. After four and a half years of dedicated work to Union's art de- There is an in- evitable differ- \Debra Fernandez 1?96, \photo by Leif Zurmuhlen. partment, Leif Zurmuhlen will continue with his free-lance and ad vert ising work. He leaves Union College with great experi- ences and rela- tionships with the students. He comments that his involvement with the stu- dents was the most enjoyable, rewarding, and inspiring aspect to his work in the fine arts de- partment. In re- gards to leaving Union and the ence between the beauty -of a young twenty year old woman and the beauty of a matured forty year thoughts, ~md perspectives be- hind the photographed faces: To- gether, the two wi II introd!,l.ce the art department, he sums up his thoughts: ••It was great to be surrounded by those who are always creating.\ ·Comedian Harps on College Life by Lane Rothman Contributing Writer Stand-up coinedian Joel Chasnoffperformed on Saturday evening in the Reamer Campus Center auditorium. Mr. Chasnoff began his stand-up comedy career during his senior year of college and has been touring college cam- puses and comedy clubs in New York City for almost one year. Like many comedians, his mate- rial and subject matter varies de- pending on the maturity of his audience. For college campuses, Mr. Chasnofftends to discuss drink- ing and classes. For his visit to Union, which was sponsored and organized by the Jewish Student Union, many ;of his j<;>kes -de?'IJ. with the topic.s ofJewish culture and Israel, th()ugh he also dis- cussed college life and sang origi- nal songs accompanied by his guitar. His performance was well-received and enjoyed by the entire audience. \He put a nice twist on Jewish comedy. It wasn't the usual hu- mor: it was more geared for younger people,\ sop hom ore Heidi Solomo11 said.' Meade ... ContinuedfromPage 1 city of its impoverished inhabit- which many Brazilian citizens ants through the Public Health felt deprived. 'Civilizing· Rio is department. especially significant in that it at- A majority of the tenements in tempts to draw comparisons with which these citizens lived were the development of similar cities tom doW11 under the pretext that in other parts of the world and they did not pass the public cO!nparesthenatureofthepoliti- health's code of sanitation thus cal protest. forcing the city's poor to move Professor Meade began her re- into the less populated hillsides of search on Rio, s urban renewal as Brazil. Although Professor Meade part of her dissertation in the late concedes that the city's slums 1970's. Her work took herto Rio · were a public health hazard, she for over a year where she studied believes that, \public health was documents 011 the renewal in the just an excuse to move these city's archives. She then pub- people into a new area where the lished several articles on the sub- rate ofdiseas~wasjustashigh as ject before temporarily retiring in the city.\ from Brazilian history in or<ler to At the end of the twentieth concentrate on her interest in century's firstdecade,the govern- ment and Brazil's wealthy elite were successful in imposing an European atmosphere onto the city thus prompting the quotations around \Civilizing\ in the title. However, this success was not without its problems. Over the next twenty years, many of the . citizens eV'icted from their resi- dences began mass, organized protests. Labor unions were formed and general strikes were held to fight for various rights of Mexico. Although she had never in- tended on her work being pub- ! ished as a book, Professor Meade says, \the encouragement of a number of people who used my journal articles in their teaching,\ convinc~d her to publish. She believes that it would be useful as, \a modern survey of Latin America or Brazil,\ for classes specializing in these areas of study. As Union's only professor to \He portrayed college life :n a humorous manner and definitely made me laugh at situations that have occurred at school,\ junior ~arin Lichtenstein said. \I thought he was very enjoy- able. It was nice to have some- thing to do that wasn't the \nonn\ at Union. I think it would be great if Union sponsored more comedians,\ commented sopho- more David Blatt. \My lack of .Jewish knowledge did not allow me to fully under- stand his jokes. but his jokes about college life and New York City were humorous.\ specialize in Latin American Studies, Professor Meade is in- volved with the creation of many Latin American history subjects; these include classes that students must take before heading to terms abroad in Brazil and Mexico. Her own interest in Brazil was influenced by her advisor in graduate school at Rutgers Uni- versity. Although she had to mas- ter Portuguese in order to do in depth research of Brazil, she was determined to pursue her interest because she, \'wanted to look at a country that had a lot of influence in Latin America.\ Professor Meade believes that it is very important for a school to have a faculty that publishes because it, \not 'only spreads the name ofthe school but also lends a certain degree of weight to rec- ommendations written by profes- sors who are well respected in their fields of study.\ As the coauthor of Science. Medicine, and Cultural Imperial- ism, and with another book about the history of Mexico in the works, Professor Meade repre- sents Union's history department wonderfully.

Page 4 _ • Febru~ry 13, 1997 • 'illlfc <!loncoroicn~is · _ · . Campus News Mind Tricks at Work: Margo GomeZ PerfOrms by AnjaU Balasingham StaffWriter Union got a taste of an original kind of entertainrnent last Satur- day, as Marga Gomez performed \Memory Tricks\ in Old Chapel. The act was an autobiographical monologue cornbining both co- medic and dramatic elements. The event, held 8 PM, drew a siz- able crowd of both students and facully. Gomez, a San-Francisco based performer, has an impressive re- sume. She has been featured in such pub! ications as' the New York Times, the Boston Globe, and Time magazine. \Memory Tricks\ has been performed at a long list of venues, including the International Theatre Festival-of Chicago, and the Edinburgh Fringe Festival. Among Gomez's other works are \Marga Gomez is Pretty, Witty, and Gay\ and \A Line Around the Block\. Gomez's upbringing as the Americanized daughter of a Cu- ban comedian and a Puerto Rican exotic dancerprovided the back- drop for \Memory Tricks\. The perfonnance explored the pro- gression of Gomez's relationship with her mother, whose charac- ter Gomez portrayed with amaz- ing detail. Her mother, a typical Latina entertainer, was extremely con- scious of her femininity. Gomez explained her mother's obsession with beauty with sarcastic wit. \She would always wear this fa- · cia! mask,\ Gomez said. \She couldn't move a muscle, or it would crack, and its magic pow- ers would be destroyed \Gomez continued to describe how her mother felt \naked and ashamed\ without her perfume on. \l think we've all experienced that feel- ing,\ Gomez said wryly Such quips underscored the COME chiasm difference between Gomez and her mother. Gomez's childhood need to fit in conflicted with her mother's natural flam- boyancy. Relating her foiled at- tempts to have a \normal\ picnic in the park, Gomez described how \'Right there, in the middle of realized that \a daughter wants to be with her mother. That'll never change .. \ Gomez's performance, exploring both cultural and femi- nine identities, thus evolved into much more than a simple mother- daughter story. Gomez was pleased with the story.\ As for what she aims to accomplish by performi:ng \Memory Tricks\ Gomez said, <'I had one reason when I initially started, and that was to pay trib- ute to my mom. I wanted to make something last forever about her. I wanted to bring back all the Marga Gomez signs autographs after \Memory Tricks\ (pltoto by Michelle Brick/TC) Central Park, my motherbegan to reception she received at Union. good things for her, because of give me lady lessons.'' «It was a great audience,\ she hermetnory problems.\ And yet, despite the facts that said. \It was really rewarding to \Memory Tricks\ opened in her mother dyed -~-~------------~-- NewYork'sPublieTheatre Gomez's hair red •'Everything that we experience in when she was in sev- life usually has a humorous enth grade, threat- in 1993. Since then Gomez· has taken it all over the country, and abroad as ened to send J:ter to :\ compOIJent y\ Gomez said -...,...-,-----~-------~---- well. Perfonn.ing in places charm scf10ol, and forced'Jier to come here and find that people like Amsterdam, London, and serve as an «apprentice\ in fash- m1derstand what I'm doing.\ In Scotland, Gomez says thatthe act ion, their relationship had its poi- reference to the twofold nature of has universal appeal. «It seems gnant m.oments. When Gomez her act, Gomez explained, \Ev- like everybody gets it Mothers asked if she herself could go into erything that we experience in life and daughters are the same wher- show business, her mother re- usually has a humorous compo- ever you go. You don't have to plied, \As long as you're happy.\ nent to it, no matter how serious be a Puerto Rican from New York Gomez reflected; \She said it as it may appear. I didn't set out to to really understand it.\ if I was all that mattered to her.\ make this performance -deliber- In general, the audience was And as the elder Gomez devel- ately sad and deliberately happy, favorably impressed with Gomez oped Alzheimer's disease, Marga it just so happened in telling my and her work. \It was entertain- ing, and truly unique,\ said sophomore Michelle Brick. \I liked h.ow she infused both com- edy anddramainto her story. She had great dramatic expressions.\ Gomez seemed to particularly strike a chord with those of His- panic or Latino heritage. \I'm very glad I came. Her story re- mhlded me of my mother,\ said Eyda M:eredi:z, Professor ofMod- ernLanguages. \f.twasaground- bteaking combination ofcoinedy and perfo-rmm1ce piece,\ said Teresa Ortega, whose involve- ment also contributed to making Gomez'sappearanceareality. Carol Hill es, Professor of En- glish at Union, was one of the many others involved in bring- ingGomezto Union. Hill.escon- tacted the performer's agent about the idea after having seen Gomez perform in New York City. «It was great to have a les- bian performer on campus,\ she said. Hilles extends her thanks to all the student and faculty groups who cosponsored Gomez's ap- pearance: Africana Studies, An- thropology, CELA, History, Modern Languages, Mounte- banks, Peer Facilitators, Political Science, MAG, Student Activi- ties, UBGLAD, the Women's Commission, and Women's Stud- ies. The evening's performance marked yet another chapter in Student Activities' \Dada Satur- days\ series of Saturday night events. According to Mike Ferguson of Stude,nt Activities, the organization took care of the logistics involved, and setup the reception after the perfonnance. \People showed up,\. said Ferguson. \Once again, we're ~rawing a group of people who are willing to try something else on Saturday nights.\ This Saturday's event is the Valentine Explosion, a dance to be held in Old ~har,el. 0 MOJO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! lchenectady 1041 State Straat 882·6778 f50% r--aac- 84:99 :85. · ·• ·OFF: : P~OCESSING ! RfPRI.NTS Bx~ 0 l . CLUB . I I ReceiVe so-A. off the regular I Limit 3 8xl0 enlargements. I R.eceave ss.oo offwben I Limit 20 standard 1izc 1 1 p; :~e of proccsaiag and· . From you..r 3Snun color you purchase·• club I p• wring color print film. 1 1 reprints. From your lSmm neaative. I membenhip! Must ·present I - color negative. · I · ss oo· ff. II I ( \UJtom CRJWiftl fniY be avatlablc •• ~ .•. coupoa to receave ~ 0 . I I lam•· ~rolls S&andRrd size pnnts only edd•ttnnal ctwac Not valad wdb ocher · I Not\\'\' wtlll other coupons Of c•n ad I Noc vahd wtl.tl other <OIJIIORI or offers couron' Pf ntra ·stt rromottOU Club .• LinUt OM per pc1'IOII No& valid with I prodaouon& Club rn.utlben n:ccrvc Club mcmbe111 naevt 1()&.4 coupon pnu au.cr ,,._c Of offers I lmic.oupotl pnce. I I mc'*rs ruetveo 1~41 c~ price I ---.--·- 1 .,..,., . ..,.. . . ,..,..,. . . -· --~ - o· • .l_\'!P.P.2t:!!t!.'!'!.! .MS'I2'!1f_OJP-! ~.9I2'!!!'!!!'-! .M9I2'!!!.'?!=-. I I s·· re< 5\ Bt Ct st;:J wi Cc va Al fir: sta Sp co 97 bu es~ fot de Cc is< cic; M, ab: Cl! 3/l m~ Tb lo' frc -2 W2 Mj of M: Pa Pe De ge be fill Fo CCJ Kc; T(J m-;: Fe as tio ch m~ Zll M, M: Le co Pr sp. dr: op Li, du 6:: 0 me M wi et' 1DJ De ca _, otl he to WI us 0 tir a1 p~ w: m to 7:

Founders n·ay Continued from Page 1 ' ' 5:54.,. Called toOrder- Malaspilla, Pathak, & Morris absent· Cor- rection to l/30/97, Drossman present 5:55- Officer Reports Brantigan - Wants a Crosstalk Committee, though late in term - Courtn?y Feeley is interested in job- Motion (Brantigan): Form a ' standing Crosstalk Committee with Feeley and three others, starting ' hest...through him I developed a work ethic and a sense ofhurnor.\ After the Gideon awards were through Professor McMullen ser- enaded the audience with G.F. Hanclel's\Hompipe inDMajor\ frorn The with campus issues, and then broadening its scope (Unanimous); SAC · Water Music. Committee on Committees has a slot opening as Brian Goldberg is McMullen's · vacating his position. Ahessi - Due to concert cancellation, Ski Club requests $'1 ,000 for final two races- Motion (Abessi): $1,000 for SkiClub- Disc1:1ssion starts with Cohen, who states Concert Committee is trying to get a Spring Concert, and motion of 1/16/97 did not signify which term concert needed to be in- Abessi states no tall $7 ;OOOallotted on 1/16/ performance was followed by Joseph M. Hinchey with the presenta- tion of the 97 will be exhausted -LeDuc says groups that have not touched their Candidate for budgets might be able to give money back to concert's cause, .if nec- essary- Proctorconeerned that Finance Committee had stated it was for winter, but Forum did not get specific in its motion- Pellish won-_ ders how $1 ;000 to Ski Club would effect a future $7,000 grant to · Concert Committee, if needed .,. Ahessi not sure as Holding Account is dwindling (Motion passes 15-1, with 1 abstention); Pre-Health So- ciety taking a trip to Tufts and needs money for accommodations - Motion (Abessi): $1 ,3 12 for Pre~Health Society (Passes 16-0, with 1 abstention) Cohen - Winter Concert canceled; Mountebanks will have show on 3/1 (as will Dutch Pipers) in place of concert; Thursday ofSpringfest may be the next concert- Brantigan concerned about problems of a Thursday night concert late in a term, such as study distraction and low turnout - Cousins concerned that switching the outdoor movie from Friday to Thursday ofSpringfest would posemoreofa problem Honorary Degree. Professor Brenda Wine apple, Washington Irving Pro- fessor of Lit- erary and Historical Studies pre- sented Catharine R.. Stimpson, di- rector of the - Zandman states that, with a big-name band, everyone will find a . FellowsDivi- way to work around interruption; Mock Rock went well · sion of the Mankad- Handed out Black History Month schedule and invited all John D. and of Forum to UBGlad and Jewish St1:1dent Union meetings/services; Catherine T. Marga Gomez at Old Chapel (2/8) followed by reception; Asian Tea/ MacArthur Pastry at Nott on 2110 Pel/ish - Apologizes for missing meetings; Trustees met 2/7-2/9 - Doubts rink issue will be voted on, but it will be spoken about -Bud- Foundation in Chicago, which each get, Olin Building updates, residence halls, and Library updates will year makes be discussed; With Morris leaving next term, position needs to be substantial filled - Petitions due on 2/14, with election on 2/21; Saturday was FOunders' Day Cousins Q'J'ew IFC voting member,Brantigan new IFC Pres.)- Jason Kellerman & Matt Peluso other new IFC members Tolin - First PanHel meeting was 2/4; Wants to get PanHel on the rnap; TriDelt starting \Gamma\ about alcohol and hazing Ferguson- Theme House Consortium meeting 2/5 with recruitE)lent as topic- Ben Fox attended to _discuss Theme House and IFC rela- tions; Ferguson wants to work with IFC & PanHel to make list of changes they want at Union and to work towards them; Consortium meetings are Wednesdays at 4:30 in a different Theme House Zandman- With Morris out of town, no new business Markowski - Freshman Ski Trip still in works (March 8 at Okemo Mt., VT probably) LeDuc- Senior Ski Trip in the works, possibly for as low as $30 total cost~ Details still missing, but probably either 2/22 or 3/1 Proctor- Possible Junior spring cruise on the Hudson (week 6 or 7 of spring term); Pathak wants junior-sponsored study space with pizza/ drinks/etc.- Zandman adds that Psyqh. Building and West are being opened for studyingwith the Nott, Bailey, and Butterfield in the works Liberma11- SAC sending out letter to campus requesting cooperation . and tlttsol ic- . iteCi grants ·io · a group of ac- compHshed individuals. Before Stimpson's convocation speech Hull presented her with the honorary degree. She ac- cepted it gratuitously and smiled as she began her speech. The con- text of Stimpson's speech was based upon creativity. She em- . phasized the nature of genius and how if one chooses to create new ideas than he/or she is more ca- pable of anything. At the start of her talk she quoted William Blake, .. 1 must create another sys- tem or beenslaved ... my business is to create.\ Stimpson believes there is faith in creativity. She expressed the importance of original produc- tions in technology as well as writing. She says she internalized the idea of creative nature. \My job is to shepherd a process of identifying and rewarding ere- ative individuals.'' Stimpson also spoke about the genius as a superhuman person- ality. She believes genius is an innate authority tJmt is propelled by some inner drive.· \I have my charms and I have my footnotes but I can't build things like other people can.\ However, Stimpson stated that not just the genius can do creativity. She thinks every- one is creative. \Each of us puts words together in different ways. Some of our crea1ivity is visible, some is invisible like an impro- vised song,\ says Stimpson. Another aspect of Stimpson's speech was that flO one does ere- ativity alone. She said that some- one may long for solitude, how- ·ever they must understand that creative people have needs that only a specific environment can satisfy. Additionally, she spoke about technol- ogy and commu- nity as nurturing environments. \We can't be in- novative without the tried settled and the true,\ said Stimpson, \ ... we must know the rules because we can- not emerge from the new until we recognize the old.\ Stimpson em- phasized the democratic axiom that a.ll college students are capable of creativity. She implied that the more .cosmo- politan people are, the: more di- verse they will be. When refer- ring Union College's atmo- sphere for gener- ating idns Stimpson said \doing creativity · in a place of bor- der crossings is most important.\ She concluded by saying that one has their hopes and means simply within the framewmk of creativity. The Founders Day celebration honored many well-deserving people for the success in their careers. Many of those who attended said Stimpson was a passionate speaker. '\Her views on creativ- ity were both truthful and inspir- ing,\ said sophomore, Lindsay Schwartz. It was clear that the convoca- tion was well organized; faculty and staff agreed that Stimpson was the highlight. during construction; Smith House given 3-year renewal 6:30- New Business Trustees Dine With Diverse Union Groups Cunanan wants \Forum Consultants\ to ease transition for next year's members- Ferguson will lead with Cohen, Zandma11, Proctor, and Markowski; Fttrguson wants to start Visual Landscape Artist Club with 27 others- Devoted to Visual Arts (photogmphy, short films, etc.)- Receives approval; Brantigan states APhiA still trying to put together Church-burning dinn&r- Response has been overwhelming. Dea11 Sorum discussed Pew Grants with Cunana11 (where students can get up to $500 for projects)- The overall grant has been exhausted - Wants Forum to take over the system for now- LeDuc wonders if other avenues were searched - Cunanan says Ken Chase promised her last year, but never delivered- Mankad adds that it does not have to be $7,000 to start, just a little bit is needed initially - Liberman willing to help for remainder ofyear,.but wants other avenues to be used after this year{Vote of Sentiment: 13·0 yea, with 4 abstentions) Cu11anan presents a rink survey to be performed 217, with results in time for Trustees- Drown dislikes format; Liberman thinks survey is a good idea; Cohen wants to wait and put together a better survey; Pellisll states that he will vote against rink if a vote coines up, but he will bring up both sides of the-issue for the Trustees (Vote of Senti- ment to table survey: 14-0 yea, with 3 abstentions)- Members asked to take home survey and revise questions. 7:00- Cohe11 moves to adjourn by Aileen Quigley Assistant News Editor A group oftwenty-fivetmstees joined current students for lunch at two theme houses and two Greek houses on Friday, Febru- ary 7, 1997. For about an hour, the groups discussed current is- sues and compared experiences in what many considered a \very relaxed, informal setting.\ The President's office was responsible for randomly assigning the trust- ees either Phi Delta Theta, Thurston House, Sigma Delta Tau, or Smith House, and tried to evenly distribute an equal num- ber of men and women to each. Once at the lunch, the groups shared their points of view on top~ ics ranging from career paths to Achilles Rink. John Vero, a brother at Phi Delt and pre-law student, felt he gained a great deal of personal insight by getting the chance to talk with Mr Jerry Baranes, an accotnplished lawyer. Other major fields were repre- sented, including computer sci- ence, engineering, and positions in the media. President Hull also turned out for this event and joined the brothers of Phi Delt. Nicholas Papanickolas saw Hull's efforts as somewhat of a public relations tactic, but that he did seem genuinely interested in stu- dent input. Under Thurston's roof, Frank Rossi and other stu- dents avidly debated the financial implications ofthe present cam- pus construction and where they would I ike to see future funds al• located. Rossi proposed ideas of renovating the Fieldhouse and the Frank Bailey football field, to which Mr. Tom Hutchinson re- plied that Rossi,. as a soon-to-be alumnus, should concentr'flte on working hard and make several spare million per year and then he could renovate any building he wanted! Hutchinson, 1 ike many of the other alumni, also unofficially polled the students at his table. He asked them, given a hypothetical $4 million, on what would they spend it? Some felt the rink should be repaired and the athletic facilities upgraded, while others favored additional funds allocated for financial aid and classr<lom resources .. Students and alumni alike seemed extremely pleased with the \comfortable atmosphere\ and the ''personable\ contact. Some got the impression that cer- tain trustees were \trying too hard to be diplomatic\ and that their opinions were solicited but not actually \heard.\ The maj<lrity had\ very enjoyable experience.\

OPtED · . 'ttrl1r <!Imtwroieuziz • February 13, 1997 · Page 6 EDITORIAL Founders Day: Really Was ted Tradition at any institution, whether you deem .it interesting or. boring; should be given the respect it deserves. It sho.uld not only be attendance at a sports event I ike the RPI game or painting the · id~l that fulfill Union's sense of tradition. Convocations, public· speakers, and other important people and events are part of the tra- dition oflearning and not just playing. Students at Union chaose to come to a historic college, yet they constantly take it for granted. We may take pride .in the Nott Me· · mGrial as a historic rnonument, but what about the other architects who have composed Union College through the years? · 1he Founder's Day Convocation in Memoria:! Chapel was Fe- spectably attended, thanks to the Greek women of the college. It is. a good thing that women were incorporated into Union twenty-six years ago, because otherwise there would have been no student pres- ence at the 202nd Founder's Day Celebration. Freshmen pledges in particular seemed to be the only members of the student body who managed to make ail appearance at this celebration. Granted that the Convocation may not·seem the most ex(!iting event of the calendar year, when you come to a school such as Union you should try to show some seNse 0fcommitment · and school pride. 'The Gideon·Hawley Teacher Recognition Awards deserve just as much attention as the convocation speaker, Catharine Stimpson. Because of the poor attendance, the excitement is dimit'lished and thehonor'\ee misses out on the complete prestige ofthe award. It is truly embmTassing when a speaker as prestigious as Catharine . Stitnpson comes to address our studei1t body, and there are hardly . en<JUgh people to fill the first floor. It would have been easy for Stitnpson or anyone from outside the Union community to mistake our institution for a women's college. Come the time to find a commencement speaker, students should refrain from their usual com plaints: who wants to speak at a school where nobody wants to listen? 7he C oncordiensis wonder's whether anyone would attend if there were no Greek houses ·or pledges to tin up the pews at this sd16ol ceremony. Yes, the recurring theme is apathy. Have some school spirit! Just because there are no fireworks for a 202nd anniversary does not mean you should tum a deaf ear on anotl1er founding year of Union It's disheartening to be reminded yet again that 98% of Union's student body, rather than attending one of the four or five most historic events in their four years at the college, prefer to in- dulge in brainless beer binge #793. The Student Newspaper of Union College Since I 8 77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Adrian MacLean, Anthony C. LaVecchia, EDITORS-IN-CHIEF David Pinkowitz Diana Sedita EXECllTIVI! !:'[)!TORS Conor McKenzie MANAGJ!VG HIJ!TOR Ste1Jhanie Slobotkin Nl!..\WS EDITOR Aileen Quigley ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR Larry Paska Al?TS& ENrERTAINMENT EDITOR Laurie Kirschner PHOTO EDITOR Jo11athan Gasthalter Chris Leone S'PORTS EDITORS Suzanne Dougherty ( iUJHA/, NEW.\; HJ)J1'0R Chris Leone UYOl IT HJJITOR Tatiana Cogevina • Andy Fradkin ('OM!' U77m MANAGm?..~' Jared Richman HDITOJVAL CAR'lrJON!ST Scott Scullion FACl!UY ADVISOR Amy DiBattista . Jennifer Pelose COPY IWITORS' PHOTOGRAPHERS: Rick Lederer, Michelle Brick, Ma~ia Guinle, Laurel Ruma STAFF: Josh Adams, Anjali Balasingham, Kelen Barr, Jamie Chandler, Kara Christian, Shana Dangelo, Whitney Davis, Brandon Declet, Gabriella Dory, Jeff Druzba, Jason Everett, Peter Farnum, ~ Eri11n Gregg, Nalini Gupta, Caroline Hepner;'Erika Mancini, Bhavani Meduri, Jody Mousseau, Rich Nespola, Michelle Neier, Susan Perry, Frank Rossi, Matt Sandler, Akin Sawyyer, Aaron Sicot.te, Michelle Thaw, Rawson Thurber, Michelle Va.nderloon 0 .... . plntons \'Ill • 4 • ~'H ~~I! l'l \ I I o ... ' j IH' I \Ill /Ill· \I\ l.•' ' 1/JJ ll it : ~. 1\ \ {It lilt ,,,, [JI, 1(. ~\ \\\ \\I \\ \\I' Union: The Deep South of the Nineties by Tony LaVecchia . Editor-ill-Chief It's funny how sometitmes circumstances can confirm yottr worst notions about things. I wa.s walking· into the College Cell!te:r the other day, feeling sl·ightly disgusted about the state of affairs here at Union. One can't helpf:lllt wonder what kind of . rep.reseotatio.n of America th-e Union studeFJtbody supplies . .All too often I feel as though I a111 bumping into the same type {)ff person all day long. I digress Getting back to tth~ College Center, I was wal kr ng along and thinking that if [, ~ white guy in typical Union garl>, get sick ofthe homogeneity a.nd closed-minded attitudes of tl1i~ place, then what does the aver<tge minority at Union think. I ca11' t even imagine being an urlran black person here and· trying to deal with the average Uni<()n student's racial and econonic views. Well ,just as I wasentertai11ing this notion, oneofmy enlighten.ed classmates, no doubt a product d our higher educatiotl maclli 11e here at Union, opened his ma.il.- box to discover a notice ai:J[)u1 · Black History Month. Our l1e:ro was so amused with this disc{)v- ery that he decided to sprcastically bring this event to tlie atterl!tiCJn of one ofhis other tolerant, well- informed friends. The exchange was something like \Hey Joe, loo'k it's Black History Month. I bet you'li be there for that...( chuckle chuckle).\ It's almost like this scene was a flashback to the deep south in the 1950's. I could have just as easily heard \Hey Earl, look. The Negroes are havin' thetnsel ves a little me.et'n.\ J€ez, the only thing · missing from the exchange that I saw take place were the white sheets and the funny hats. It seems to me that this plac,e needs to wake up and to join the nineties. ·Never in my whole life have I ever seen such a pathetic group of scared rich white kids in one place. It's phenomenal to me that the exchange that I wit- nessed took place at all. As it hap- pened though, this ra:cial bigotry happened in the middle of the College Center in front of about 50 people. I'm almost at a loss for words. Everyone has probably at some- time or another used racial stereo- types or even slang words. What particularly scares me about this place is that many Union students seem to believe the i,gnorant things that they say. Look, I'm not perfect. I'm just another white guy at Union. I didn't say anything to the p·eople who were talking about Black History Month. I probably at some point lmve been insensitive when it comes to sqmesortofrace or gender issue, but I at least real- ize that such behavior is wrong and unacceptable. We are at college. We should be open-minded in a attempt to expand our horizons. We should be above the sort ofpetty racism and fear-mongering that usually only appeals to the l.owest com- mon den01niriator at society. I think Union as an institution needs to take a serious look at it- self. Is our purpose as a college to provide four years of safety to frightened, upper-class whites, or are we here to educate the next generation ()f Arnericans? If the fatter is' our mission, which I hope it is, then we need to make a seri- ous effort to diversify this place racially and ~ocioec'onomically. I would be a genius if 1 knew how . that could be accomplished, but I think some thinking about this topic needs to be done. This is not to say that all Union students are bad or ignorant. This, of course, is far from true. I en- counter litany 'open-minded people every day, and they are to be commended. I also know that there are many people out there already working on this problem. l think they should be congratu- lated. .. Letters Policy & Disclaimer Letters .to the Editor shottl<l be addressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before publicatiori. Letters mllst be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concems the Union College >eotnlntmity. Final decisions conceming printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Boar<l: All letters must be signed a11d saved 011 a high density disk although the author's. name need not appear in the newspaper, ifthe writer so speclt1es. Letters do 110t necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. · Editorials reflect the opil1.ion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member.in particular. Any opinion columns, or catto()llS ret1ect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial B()aE\d. Advertisements appearingi n The Concordiensis do not necessarily retlect the opinion of the Editorial Board .. The Concordiensis is printed by World Media, 1104 Central A venue, Albany, NY, 12205. The Concordiensis subscribes t() tl•e Intercollegiate Press (IP)~ National Student News Service, & King Syndicates. I I j { t r .. ( I ' '

' : ~ ' .,- ' ·. ;\ . Page 7 · February 13, 1997 · Wlfe Ol11nn~roieitsis . · . . . OP/ED Opinions • Thurberville Puts· Damper on · Sexual Assault ·Awareness Week Dear Editor, . \rophies is a tasteless and col- -orless drug that can be placed into drinks or food and eliminates the ability of an individual under the drug to remember anything that occurs.. Rapists, using rophies~ .are able to commit any crime without the worry of the victim remembering. what occurred (which is the main reason why Rohypnol has been called \the rape drug\). Wait, Did I Miss Something? As you and your readers may know, this last week saw Sex11al Assault Awareness Week at Union.. For this, Safe Space placed a large sheet signifying this fact in the College Center~ posted daily fact sheets, .ano dis- tributed purple ribbons to raise awareness about tl~is discomfort- ing issue. However, proven with Rawson Thurber's·cmnments .in your February 6th issue~ it be- comes apparent how ignorant Union students are ofthis pro b- lem. Thurber, in his section entitled \Thurberville attempted to make fun by suggesting \Should Rohypnolbeon ValidineT' How . could you, as dedicated editors:, think of publishing a joke con- cerning a drug used in thousands of rapes and sexuat assaults across America? ln additi()n, how could Thurber see this sub- ject as anything close to funny? All of this done, keep in mind, during Sexual Assault Awareness Week. This is the second time in the past year our group has been · forced to write and make you aware efyourwillingness to pub- lish \lighthearted\ articles about rape and sexual assau]t. Past ar- ticles, now augmented by this !at- . est comment, clearly display a naivete and repu·lsive disregard for rape/sexual assault and its vic- tims. Please don't continue to be a part of this incredible serious problem--sexual_assault exists at Union and everyone should do their part to deter it instead of poke fun at it. The Members of Safe Space at Union College Robert Cohen Staff Writer Many of my friends have ap- proached me in the past few weeks telling me the articles I write ate negative. They ask, \Don't you have anything good . to say about U nionT' Let me take a moment and answer this ques- tion. I haveatleastonegoodthing to say about Union, l will be out ofhere in 15or so weeks. I can- not recall the last time I have ac- . tually felt good about something here. It seems that everywhere I turn I always hit the same walls, nothing changes, and after four · years the taste is bland_ Do all . seniors feel the same way I do? Probably not as extreme as I feel, hutto some extent Union has beat everyone of us. Maybe that is the way the I ife · of a senior is supposed to be. I have never l:leen a senior in col- lege before, nor will I ever again. Will l feel like this after· I !:lave the same job for four years? Will I feel like this after I am married for four years? Questions like these scare me, because iflife is anything like my experience at Union, I might as wen end it now. As I get ready to embark on the rest of my life, I often ponder if Union has prepared me well enough and ask myself, Will I he able to survive? Should this even be the job of a college or univer- sity? 1s you can see I am durnb- founded with more questions than answers, and I fear that it will be too late before I realize any of these answers. My_ greatest wo:rry is that I will go through 1 ite never finding out any of the answers . Again, maybe that is the way it is and I am just a victim ofcircwn- stance. I guess this is where much of my bittetness towards the school originates. And it is my opinion that mostly everyone here wi H Rohypnol, also known as 1-800-283-2255, ext. 11349 Thanks For the Laughs - Reality of the Way 'Things Are Behind the scen.es at The Concor.diensis is something many people have yet to experience. I was one of those ignorant people To the Editor; until this year, and I am glaci 1 am. · I am writing in response to an article in that appear;ed in the 1/30 a part of the Monday and Tues- issue of The Concordiensis written by Mr. Jared Richman,. entitled day night ritual now. One person \Memories of.tlw Way We Were,\ in this article, Mr. Richman, a .· in particular sucked me into senior goes to explain his disdain for the changes that are occurring \Club Concordy,\ but unfortu- here at Union. He discusses the transition of the \campus center\ to nately, he has left Union as of this the \Reamer College Center,\ the \'Skellar\ to the \Rat\, and \W-R- issue. U-C\to \W-RUC.\ Chris Leone might not have I had originally intended to write this letter for last week's written the most popular articles, Concordiensis, however, I am glad that I waited until this week, as and I am sure you have com- some interesting developments have occurred. Last Friday, I received plained ab()ut something he has a phone call from a senior who hear-d that \I was the one calling it written (I k.now I have)! How- rue,\ and to tell me that I had to say R-U-C because it had been that .. ever, you can never take away the way for 70+ ye~rs. This is true, WRUC originally broadcasted in fact that Chris has revitalized The 1920, however I wonder iff or all of those 70+ years, it was called R- Concordiensis sports section into U-C. Later on, at the Rathskellar, I overheard this same person and an integral part of the newspaper. her friends.·questioning why \freshmen are changing everything.\ He helped ensure that all Union When we, the class of2000~ toured here, interviewed here, and had sports are covered every week, Orientation here, th~ main building was called the Reamer Campus and he helped drive the sports Center. This building was rededicated in June 1995 in honor of Murray section up to at least four pages. and Ruth Reamer, who generously donated to the college. If it is its Chris left Union to pursue other interests, but he may be back next year. I might not be the biggest advocate ofleaving college in the ~~t~dle ohyya[, but I respect h.is dQpision. Chris Leone will be a name yo~• wi.ll read down the road in other newspapers. Whether you loved or hated what he wrote, Chris should be saluted for his efforts atthis news- paper. I think I speak for the en- tire staff when I say this: Chris, if you should choose to come back to Union next year, feel free to take your spot at the right-hand computer and help continue to improve The Concordiensis In the meantime, good luck in your future endeavors, and thank you for introducing me to the cra- ziest club on campus. Frank Rossi feel a hint of what I feel some- time in their four {or five) years here. I chose to attend Union and I chose to stay here. I guess people will say there is no one to blame but myself l mean a persons time here at Union is what they make of it. ... right? Unfortunately, I dis- agree with this line of reasoning. Education here at Union is a two way street, yes you only get what you put into it, but without the school backing its students up, you cannot get anything. How many people have had a hard time registering for a class? How many people find the schools efforts for social alternatives pathetic? How many people are upset with the meal plan or food quality? How many people hate the god awful hours some places on this cam- pus seem to keep? How many people think security is a joke? How many people have no heat in their rooms? Union must also make an ef- fort to enrich the I ives of its stu- dents. Union needs a face lift, they need an \I Care\ attitude. Where is this change to come from? The students? staff? admin- istration? I do not know that an- swer to this question either. I came to Union, I learned many things. I learned about history, philosophy, science, economics, and otJ1er things from countless courses J could name but won't. I learned how to be self sufficient to some extent. Everything I learned will possibly help me when I graduate. Hopefully it does, hopefully I get all the an- swers I am looking for. However, I can't help to look back upon my decisions, why did I choose Union over some other school, why did f choose to stay here. I guess I thought Union was spe- cial, that I would get something special out of it, but for the most part looking back, all I gotJrom Union was heartache. I learned a lot of things at Union, but some- howl think I did not learn there- name, why not call it \Reamer''? I hardly see the sentimentality of a name as bland as the \college center.,; We have no reason to call it that; it is not the name ofthe building. As for the Rathskellar, some seem to think that the \skellar\ is some beautif!J.I name that pales in comparison to the \Rat.\ They also seem to think that calling it the \Rat\ is some anti-traditionalist way to re- name our beloved Rathskellar. Why then, is there a picture of a rat on Assure YOUR Future in Business with UNION's 5-Year Master of Business Administration the counter at the Rathskellar, as well as on most of the advertise- ments for it around campus'? If we want to call it the \Rat\, the \'athske\, or anything else who cares? . Finally, on the issue of WRUC, I hardly see why this is such a pressing issue for upperclassmen. I happen to like calling it W-RUC, as do some others. Ifyou wishtocaH it W-R-U-C, go for it, and leave us alone. What difference does it malce to you hpw we pronounce the call letter:s of a radio station when you will be gone in four short months and it becomes our station to tun? I have now received phone calls in ' my room, at my show,and heard conversations that have asked me, or flat out ordered me to call it W-R-U-C. Keep dreaming, I'll con- tinue to do as I wish as long as t have the official OK to. As I write this letter, I am confused as to why some members ofthe senior class are so intent on how we, the class of 2000, refer to such Union traditions as the Rathskellar and WRUC, and a structure that seems to invoke such passion in some, the Reamer Campus Center. f wonder why these seniors are not supporting the work and involve- ment of underclassmen, as we wHl soon inherit Union and its tradi- tions. Sincerely, Jim DeWan MBA Accounting MBA Health Systems Administration MBA International Management One AdditifJnal Year Study For lnforma~ion Cal/388-6239 MBA AT UNION

It's sixth week, and you know what that means: not only are we halfway through the term, but we're also halfway through the school year~ $15, 000 already gone-just think of all the other stuff you could have bought. This week promises to be another fan,. tastic one here at Union. Most people, except those whom we all hate (and you know who you are), have midterms to study for and major papers to start - we mean proofread and touch up-· this week. It's time to look under your bed and dig outthose books you haven't used all terlli.. That is if you bought them in the first place. With the high cost of tuition, our parents say that books are a luxury that we definitely cannot afford. Don't worry if you don't own the books that you need to study: you can always just steal your roommates' and play dumb when they say that they must have lost theirs. Capping offth·is fabulous week (as if it wasn't bad enough), is Valentine's Day. The holiday it- selfisn'tso bad-that is for those of us who actually get Valentines. Valentines from members ofthe opposite sex (fathers and broth- ers excluded) are always appre .. ciated ... hint, hint. You should be reading this on a Thursday ... still one more shop- ping day ... Price Choppdis open late ... everything for Valentine's Day should be on sale by then for all you cheap bastards ... too bad they don't accept V ali~ Dine. For all you boyfriends ot wannabe boyfriends out there: don't be cheesy just because it's a certain day. You act I ike fools every other day of the year, so believe us, no one's buying it. No girl I ikes cheese. Anyone who says that they do is either lying or a complete tool. For those of you who have no one with whom to spend this Fri- day, the hockey game is a viable option. It's too bad that once you get there, you will be distracted from the game by all the happy couples mackin' ,it in the stands. Everyone will be so happy; ex- cept for you. So, instead of en- during this amorous torture, you could just drink alone in your room. Thurbervtile .• by Rawson Thurber Well kids, tomorrow is the all-time worst hoi iday of the year . .Valentine's·Day(also known as \Va:Jentirnes Day\) is that extraspe- cial day when those without a relations~ip feel truly alone and bitter, and those in a relationship use •the day as a bar:aometer of its success. Very few people actually enjoythis day of pink and red hearts, candy, flowers, and Tequila; but enjoyment isn't really that itnportant on a hoNday, is it? How often are they really fun? I digress. The point is, folks, that Valentine's Day is haphazardly stu,ck in the middle ofthe dest moflth ofthe year. Why not place this day o' love in..the spring when it could be trm!y appreciated? Whatevec..I guess you either get candy hearts from that special someone, or you don't. I have my own thoughts and issues with this day. In fact, I plan on spending tomorrow bonding with so1ne male friends (i11sert your own homo- erotic joke here). But you don't want to read about that, you want to laugh. Nevermind me. I'll be fine, Sniff, sniftk Yep, Valentine's Day-· it's where aH the closet alcoholics Top Ten Holidays That Would BeBetter Titan Va'lentines Day come out of the woodwork. . 10. Exploratory Rectal Examination Day Thank god Valentine's is on a· 9. TorturedPoetDay · · Friday. That way we all have 8. National Lap-Dancing AcknowledgmentMQnth Saturday to sleep off the hang- . Deep-Fried Food Consumptiq,n Day over. 6. Drunken Stupor Week This is Whitney and Cari, sign- . Under-Age Drinking Day ing off We want to leave you 4. Talk Show Dependency Day with a Valentine's Day Snaps-~ 3. Intramural All-Star Day \Your girlfriend is so ugly, you 2. White Trash Awareness Week gave her a hickey and got a 1. Capitalistic Dogm,a Day mouthful of fur.\ If this sounds Stude11t of tire Week: familiar to you, you might want Chris Leone is the week's winner. Unfortunately, or fortunately, to make some cha11ges before the Chris has dec·ided to Teav~ the happy grove we call Union. I wish big day. him luck. He has been a good friend with a good sense ofhumor--a --~-----------~--------..,.---------------! rare thing in these parts. r-----~------~--------~---~-------------- A Salute to the Barmen by Martin Metz Contributing Writer Once consumed in Medieval times as a beverage made from fer- mented honey known as Mead, The famous drug which has enter- tained the courts of Kings, Dukes, Nobles, and commoners since the beginnings of recorded human h-is- tory, and the same drug which also has the power to turn entertain- ment into catastrophe is the same drug which calms the nerves of Union students, weaving out of them a \social fabric\ which it pokes its own holes through. No, as you already may have guessed, ram not talking abouttryptophan, the sleep inducing drug present in Turkey, nor the exorbitant amounts found in upper-class tur- key sandwiches, or any meal at Union for that matter, but alcohol, both a destroyer and an enhancer ofsocial functions. At Union, as is the phehomenon at most other college campuses around the country, many students view alcohol, as the \social lubri- cant\ which allows them to blow ofthe stress oftheir intensely rig- orous schedules. This, along with the idea that they are free from the years of oppression their parents have imposed upon them is the mindset in which most incoming Freshmen begin their illustrious drinking career at Union. Often times as a freshmen, excuse me, fresh person, or first year student, I can remember seeming en- chanted with the overpacked beer dungeons we like to call Fraternity Basements. Now, as a senior, and a resident above on of those \over- packed beer dungeons\ I view many Fraternity parties as the em- bodiment of chaos and confusion. To demonstrate how ridiculous the scenes are getting, let me give you an actual scenario to explain how far peopl~ will go to obtain their precious golden nectar. To protect the witness, who has been moved by Paul Mantka, head of security, into a witness relocation program which has transferred him to a new school and is under close supervision by the FIOBIC (Federal Investigators office of beer incidents in college), we will call the first fellow itwolved Bob. Bob was drinking at a party ofhis, and was also temporarily distrib- uting the beer to the masses pour- ing into the dungeon. Try to imag- ine this situation, Five drunken football players, one empty keg, and our innocent super h~ro, Bob. Now, I am not going to describe the comments that were made and the actions that were taken against Bob, lam sure your imaginations and pr~judices about football play- ers and fraternities will suffice. Let's just say, after being threat- ened, Bob got pissed off and went upstairs, .not wanting to get into a fight My point is, Doesn't anyone think about the feelings ofth~guy behind the bar anymore?! We are giving you free beer, think about it, free beer! Do you know what it' looks like from behind that bar,the stress involved in handing out those beers. Tile strugglinggroup ofbannen at Union college. no one ever talks about them, their heroic endeav- ors, their pledge to get you as drunk as possible, to guarantee your beer. We are just like Mail- men or Meinekee man, we guar- antee you, you're not gonna pay a lot for your beer, we deliver a product to you, gratis. I think their should be a bammn appreciation day, where everyone else serves us beer, and we get to flash a million cups in their faces, and give them looks. Lets see how they like it. What if we went on strike, they would be screwed, they might actually have to do some- thing other than drinking, some- thing inte!Hgent, like bowling. To the 'Barmen of Union college, I salute you, for standing tall amidst the insults, the poor treatment, and the general lack of appreciation for you around campus. Why are their such masses and such pressure on our heroic bar- men, standing tall in the saddle? Although the addition of the Cof- fee House has added a much needed social alternative, other than the shining metropolis of Schenectady, I feel as if alcohol at Union is perhaps sought after in the wrong way. Yott don't find as many small gatherings where people genuinely get together to actually have an intellectual con- versation, as opp<lsed to \what other parties have you been to to- night?, where did you party last night?, and what's going on tomor- row night?\. The atmosphere. which breeds romances staler than the beer we drink, has managed to grow into such a tradition at Union that most are reluctant to d() anything but drink in fraternity barrooms, and then tell themselves that there is nothing else in the world they would rather be doing. Maybe I'll join the Schenectady Bowling League or the new Student Cro- quetclub_ C'mon, people, don't put so much pressure on our heroic barmen, l don't know how much longer they can take it. **Note.: If/ have managed to in- cense or inspire any people who wish to respond to m_v bitter ramblings or have a beef about Union, please expres~that beef via the Concordy. lf_vou wish to beat me up, or verhal{v abuse me, please also do· so via tke Concord.y. .. ':'•r Maple: The Best Leaf by Jeffery Druzba Staff Writer Canada is a wonderful country for so many reasons that I have to explain. First, the most noticeable reason to praise our neighbors to the north is their money. Colored money is the greatest. When I was I ittle, I always wished that those bills that they have ill the game Qf \Life\ could be real. In Canada, your wishes come true. Not only is there colored money, but they've got coins in one dollar and in two dollar increments! The last time I was up in Canada, I bought some- thing with 30 Canadian dollars. I got four two-dollar coins back. That's the best. By the end ofthe day, I had a good $15 in coinage rolling around in my pocket. You forget about the things, and then you empty your pockets and find out that you still have a ton of money. The neat thing about going over the border is exchanging money. You give them $60, and they turn you into some sort of Canadian millionaire. I I ike that. The downfall is that when you spend a bunch of that money and then exchange the rest back to American dollars, yotl get so much less. It seems like they penalize you for transferring it back to American money. People in Can~da speak French, but if you look atthem only briefly with that clueless look on your face, they flick a little language switch in their heads and start speaking Engl'ish. Canadians in the mf\jor cities are as snooty as real French people yet friendly enough with which to do business. They don't talk about you in froatofyourface- -just behind your back. They are more than willing to take some of that colored Monopoly money off of your hands, but then they insult the fact that you're anon-bilingual American. They're really chame- leons in every way! Of course, no survey of Canada would_ b~ complete without men- tioning· ketchup potato chips. How is it that'a food company can decide that people in Canada like them and that people in the United States don't? l mean, it's only a border. St1ddenly, they're market- able. I don't get it. CaJiada also has a better national anthem. \The Star Spangled Ban- ner'* is stufty, and it sounds dated. When you sing \Oh Canada,\ you just can't help feeling young and al.ive. I heard a version of \Oh Canada\ one time that ended with a chorus of children singing in unison. That just wouldn't sound the same with the United States' anthem_ The people on the Canadian border are really nice too. They're al- ways kind and courteous, and they always mention that th~y hope that you enjoy your stay. When you cross back into the United States, the people there are really angry for some reason. The American border-people are rude. Maybe it's because they knowt11at they work for the. bad side of the border. Maybe it's because they don't like their national anthem. They ask you where you were or where you're from, and they always try to get you flustered so that you end up having your car searched. I really have no point to make here other than the point thatCanada is as good as it gets. To our neighbor to the nonh, I salute! a t \ d t ~ u . tl f a s t• s ·a tc h II s a ti tc h II c t< II t< tl 11 c e \' \' sl 1 j t I (

Features · · Wire Oitlnr.or.Oieltsis • February 13, 1997 · Page 9 The Swearing-Off ofCommunicating •· . ·· ·· fleets a hig111yspoiled, nihilistic by Erika Mancini individual, hut it reflects someone . Staf[Writer who couldn't th~nk of anything r understand that this is prob- else better t() say at the dinner ably the very last thing that ev- table. Granted, shocking words erybodywantstohearatthistime. can be highly useful in making a · ActuaUy, writing this article is point ot can be exceptionally hu- one of the last t:hings thatl want morous in e11tertain.ing when used to do at this moment No, I'rn not at just the right time. Incessant . missing out on any parties~ I just swearing, bowever, contains no don't wantto make inyselfsound value in speaking thoughtfully, like such a goody-goody. After and, thus, respectfully. Is there a all, this is a subject that was last need to be thoughtful and re- imposed upon us by our sixth- spectful when clowning around grade teachers. I know that with friends? Maybe not always, yo1,1've heard it a billion times, but I tend to think that much of · and now that you're finally on friendsh,ip is based on those tv,;o your own in college, no one can elements. teB you what to say and what not Maybe we thill.k that it's okay to say. I know that it's not a big because Beavis and Butthead do deal anynwre. No one admits to it, or because our favorite Holly- being offended and shocked by wood stars glamorously rattle the swear w~rds ~ymore. Even say- F-word in hit movies, or maybe · ing \swear word\ sounds so even because our parents do it corny and juvenile. My dad can have quite a mouth There is something more dis- on occasion{most likely acquired heartening than just vulgarity from a stint in Vietnam,) I be- about these words and phrases lieve that our generation some- that we so carelessly spout. Do times behaves so spoilt, selfishly, we not· realize that thes-e words and foolishly. The lang1,1age that damage conversation? I guess we use reflects this. We, e~pe­ that it was around the seventh .cially here at Union, have every- gradethatmypeersstartedtotake thing that we could possibly up swearing. Things were never need. . the same. Dull conversation un- We're getting the best of edu- fortunately seemed to reign over cations, I iving on the m<,>st beau- all otherfonns of communication. tiful of campuses, enjoying pas- Sounding hip was aU that ma:t- sibly the most wonderful years of tered. Everybody became too our lives. Tben we disgrace our- self-conscious to share something selves by talking asthough we are ·abowthimselforh~rself. Nobody, in combat trenches, car wrecks, \connected.\ If you found high or any other miserable, unthink- school to be boring, discouraging, able situation where the blow of tortuous, or all of the above, p,er- swearing is more than appropri- haps you' 11 agree that it was this ate. lack of good, meaningful conver- Someday we will have children sation that worsened what were of our own. Will we suddenly already lonely and confusing clean up our language, or will times. I, myself, looked forward they learn to speak with as little to college, where people would regard for responsibility and self- have interesting things to say and control as some of us do? \A interesting ways of saying tbem. culture is defined by how well it's Overall, I guess I haven't been people connect...\ is a surpris- too disappointed, except maybe ingly substantive point made in in this area of verbal abuse. oneofthemany feel-good-about- It is so easy to swear in order techno.logy commercials pres- to make a point - much easier ently on television. We \connect\ than, say, delving into the imagi- through sayings like, «You're the nation and coming up with a sh**!\and .. ~atthefl'**?\ clever simile or metaphor that el- thus, we don't really connect at evates rather than degrades. So all. Are we i11 the slums, or are wec.omeupwithremarkssuchas, we at Union College, trying to \This pizza f***ing tastes like make something better of our- sh**!\ This phrase not only re- seh:es? Union College Undergraduate Summer Research Fellowships Available Earn $2,000 plus free room at the College You rnust have a faculty sponsor for your project Information and applications at the Dean's Office S 1000 Science Center Applications due March 5th *** SPRlNG BREAK 1997*** \ America•s #1 Spring Bteak company! Sell 15 trips and travel freef· Cancun, Bahamas, Maza:tlan, Jamaica or Florida! ·llOo/1) Lowest Price Guarantee! Call Nowt TAKE-A-BREAK (800). 95-BREAK - 1', • l . • - t . • I I \ I The Whining Has Started by Michelle Tham Staff Writer Actually, it began a few weeks ago and then sort oftook on a life of its own. The murmur of girls • hoping for romance, the buzz of guys praying for salvation from that dreaded day. Now that the lovely holiday called '{alentine's Day is finally upon us, we must bear the burden ofour.own angst along with the incessant qualms of our beloved friends. It's not so much that Valentine's Day is actually evil or terrible, it's more thatthere are so many expectations of the holi- day that simply cannot be ful- filled. We girls want that oh-so- special one to sweep us off our feet and suddenly profess his un- dying love for us. Does this ac- tually happen in the real world? Rarely, if ever. Guys (please don't get mad!) often don't re- ally know what they're doing, and they either try too hard or do too little. The fact is, we scream for originality and for a perfect, ro- mantic day, but what we often get is an empty mailbox and a disap- pointed heart. Yes, there are those I ucky people who walk through Valentine's Day in a giddy daze of sparkling eyes and blushing cheeks. Many will mock the \idi- ats\ who actually fall prey to the whole cheesy marketing ploy and to the mockery of true romance. So, excuse me tor this next state- me,nt, but I t1)ust confess that I lo~ethe cheesiness. Bring it on, full force--candy hearts, red and pink flowers, chocolates, cards, and anything that screams tacky, red glitter and roses. So many demand originality and grandiose planning. I say, give me a red heart stapled to a lace doily. It's cute, and I think a lot of people have forgotten just that. Granted, we are all a I ittle past the whole third-grade fun-with- paste phase and boys having coo- ties, but I think that the innocence and sheer honestly of a card that says \I Love You\ doesn't really fade with time. Yes, this is a hopeless romantic writing here, but maybe there's a little bit of that in everyone; and sometimes, Valentine's Day can_just be about loving your friends (which is not necessarily the most mac!'Jo thing to believe, but give it a try) .. It's about reminding everyonevvhom you love that you're standing right tl1ere, ready to do a11ythin,g. Maybe it takes a piece ofpaper with a silly Winnie the Pooll car- toon on it to tell someone that, but it gets the message across. It's like sending them a big llu~ in an envd<Jpe. Is that sucl1. a 'bad thing'? I th.ink that Valentine's Day gives us an excuse to be.llonest, at least for a little while--to just say, \hi I'm thinking about y<lu, you're a sweetheart\ and to not have to feel embarrassed ()r inap- propriate. In a time where a lot of us are so guarded wi tit our emotions for fear of getting hurt or of having our affect ions shunned, it's nice to know th2t on one day ofthe year we canrt1ake an absolute tool ofourselves.,and it'spennissible. Noone c::mdum down a .sign of affection. lt' s a bit of an ego booster for a11yone, and it adds a little bitofsu11shine to yourday. So. smile, buy that card,. and drop it in the mail. Don't think twice,just think once--with :your heart, not with your head. Asthma Research Asthma is a chronic respiratory disorder charactea·ized by coughing, wheezing, and slturt- ness of breath. We are dedicated to evaluating investigational drugs for the inflamma- tion and obstruction found in the lungs of those with asthma. We need asthmatics, age 4- 70 years, to help evaluate research medications. They must be n()n-smokers and i.JI g()od health. Participants will receive a free asthma evaluation, related care, and the oppCJrtll- nity to learn more about theor asthma. Those qualified will .r~4:eive study medic~tioo and be paid. These studies are conducted under the superv1s1on of a board certtfied allergist and clinical immunologist in a private setting. 215 Washington Ave. Ext Albany, NY 12205 For further information call 452-2510 Monday-Friday 8AM to 5PM or 1-800-363-3464 (24 hours) Allergy & Asthma Center of Albany Med Albany Medical College Divisiot1 of Allergy Excellence in Patient Cdte and Clinical Research -

J P;:tge ·10 • February 13, 1997 • WI c 01unnrri'tiensis Arts & [mertainm~nt James Bond vs. the Volcano \Dante's Peak. \ Starring Pierce Brosnan. Linda Hamilton. Directed by Roger Donaldson. RatedPG-/3, Universal Pictures. Rating: *** (out of four) To be a successful executive in Hollywood, you only need to know one thing: when a specific type of film is a commercial hit, duplicate it as often as possible within a year. When Die Hard was released in 1988, movie stu- dios felt 'com-pelled to release countless \Die Hard's\ set on board ships (Under Siege), pi anes (Executive Decision, Passenger 57), alid practically every other conceivable form of transporta- tion. Last year, Twister brought Americans a new kind of phenom- enon: the natural d.isaster epic. Sure, these have appeared before (1975's Earthquake featured Charlton Heston and then-spec- tacular special effects), but never has a movie about a force of na- ture made so much money. (To date, Twister has grossed over $600 million worldwide, certainly blowing away the competition.) It is only obvious that production companies would scramble to next natural disaster, and in 1997, Americans will be treated to two films on volcanoes -. Dante's Peak ahd Volcano - piNs The Flood in theaters; on TV, there's this weekend's NBC mini-series, Asteroid. What's next? In the coming year, expect to see previews for the follow- ing: Wind Chill, Blizzard, Rela- tive Humidity, Hail Storm, and An Absolutely Normal, Peacefzil, and Quiet Sunny Day with a Tempera/Uri;! of65 Degrees and Partly Cloudy Skies. Dante 's Peak leads the pack in the second coming of natural disaster flicks, and is poised to be the better of this year's two volcano-orientedmovies. (Fox's Volcano, opening this summer, is about an erupting volcano un- derneath Los Angeles. Yeah, right!) Set in the mythical town of Dante's Peak, population 7 ,000, the tilm tells the tale of ge- ologist Harry Dalton (played by Brosnan) who is sent to the town named atl:er hell to test s~ismic activity; apparently, the U.S. Geological Survey thinks the dor- mant volcano is waking up. Hamilton, as the town's mayor/ coffee shop owner,. gives a speech at the town's Pioneer Days Festival, which celebrates the town being the second best place to live in the nation. Not for long. As Brosnan discovers the instability of the peak, he manages to convince only the mayor ofthe potential for an erup- tion, and more geologists are sent to the town to prove our hero Dalton wrong. Of course, they fail. Considering.his unusual career move (the current Jaines Bond nonnally doesn 'tap pear in other films during his stint ?S 007), Brosnan erases his secret agent image nicely and portraysa sym- pathetic geologist with quiet ap- peal. Hamilton isagutsymayor, who looks a I ittle stressed all the time, perhaps because $he has to contend with a skeptical town council, a cappuccir1o machine that runs nonstop, and two chil- dren whose hobbies include driv- ing the family wagon up the mountain during an ash stonn. Of this plot point, the filmcan'thelp but give in to illogical progres- sion. And does every film char- acter have to risk life and I im b to save the family dog that was stu- pid enoughto run from home in the f1rst place? Comparisons to Twister are easy, but overall, Dante's Peak is a bettertilm than the*** Twister . , . ' . .. . . • , ... ,, . . ·r· . ·,_ . e Angels In America by Michell~ Jester Contributing Writer If you have stopped by the ulman Theater lately, (to check ut Professor Charles Steckler's tage Design exposition perhaps) ou might have noticed in the ctor's Studio a small group of lightly batty thespians rehears- ng far into the night. Maybe they ere making robot noises or peaking of angels, Antarctica, nd Valium-induced hallucina- ions. At this point, if you did not flee n fear, you would.have probably sked yourself... Don't these eoplehave lives? WeU, my an- wer would have to be no, not ntil seventh week You see, they re all in the theater- for a very good reason. Senior Emilia epidemic along with a load of Teasdale, with the aid ofthis dedi- other pressures that go hand in cated merry band of individuals, hand witl1 American Jtfe. Amidst is presenting for her Senior Project the discussion of serious themes a staged reading of Tony like love, homosexuality, and Kushner's nationally acclaimed death, Angels is infused with hu- Ang/esinAmericaPartOne: Mil- morand wisdom. In fact, itisal- lenniwn Approaches. most impossible to go through a Ever since the genesis of her page ofthe script without a laugh career hereon this campus, Emilia or ah epiphany. The play is just has dreamed of directing this thatcool. sliow at Union. Other than the esteemed genius Set in New York City,Angels is of a director, Emilia Teasdale '97, a riveting account of relation- the show is presented by Autumn ships, politics, and ethics in that Co hell '97, Carey Miller '98, Sa- Garden of Eden affectionately rah Morse '97, Doug Schneider known as Ronald Reagan's '98, Bob Pinkham '97, Gabriela America. Dory '98, Jon Zandman '99, and It is 1985 and AIDS hasbegun Ari Gottlieb '99. to make its indelible impact upon There are eight actors in the our country and the world. The _show, which wiU begin at 7PM on charactersinAnge/saretacingthis February 14, 15,and 16. Houses/ Apartments 1997-1998 • 3 to 8 Bedrooms • AU Appliances • Parking • Remodeled • Carpet ALL WELCOME Come for tea, scones, and live jazz at the Call 370-5498 *$200-$500 WEEKLY* Mailing phone. cards. No experience neces- sary. For more information send a self-ad- dressed stamped envelope to: Global Com- munication, P.O. Box 5679, Hollywood, FL. 33083 English Department Party Monday, February 17, 4:00-6:00 N ott Memorial for a number of reasons. While the special effects an~ fewer than· in Twister and concentrated in the film's final quarter, Dante sPeak seamlesslyc<lrnbines actual foot- age with compttter\generated.ef- fects to rnake a convincin& and threatening volcanic explosion. While Tw;sterrel ied only on its effects to draw ilil the masses, Dante's Peak fleshes out the main characters and does not make them seem silly. Tbetihn 's co-producer, <iale Anne Hurd, who also produced such Ameri- can classics as Aliens and The Terminator(and is also respon- sible for this winter's above-av- erage-frightener, The Relic), un- derstands tlmt people don't see disaster fi.]ms for great characters, but for a sensible story and great effects. Dante's Pe.4k·certainly provides both: Brosnan and Hamilton almost share a love scene, but this is broken up When- the mayor's dalighter awake11s. Likewise, the peak's J:nagJ~itude is conveyed even without digi- tal explosions, especially when Brosnan and another geologist scale the peak tor measurements. Camera angles <lfthe two minute figures against this massive mountain show the huge crater and im pi ant ani mage ofthe force of d estructi 011 this vo I cano would have ifit erupted. Although scientific: references are kept to a minimum, the geolo- gists in Dante 'sPeak seem human and believable. Unfortunately, the film cannot help bttt give into the standard subplot involving the townspeople not heeding a warning because ofm()ney inter- ests: a· quickly tossed-away idea involves a strong business invest- ment which. would' hurt th~ economy if ~ut alert was issued. At:Jeastthe film doesn '.t overana- lyze the business aspects of this town. ·Just enough insight into the characters is given to propel them along~ in Twister, all that was known about the leads was that they loved the thriH of nature and were settling a nasty separation. Also adding totbef,ilm's clever touches is a scene invol-ving hot springs which proves fatal for . teenage bathers, and a trip down a highly-acidic river, c~urtesy of the peak. While the twl:sters came and went, this volcano spreads terror in more forms ~!unjust its eruption. The water becomes deadly, lava flows freely, rivers destroy bridges and wash away cars, and the ash falls heavily, blinding and killing rnore. Dante's Peak is a smooth disaster flick which lets its \monster'' do all the work, thus being one oftl1e more \on-target\ films ofthe genre to come around. Finckel and ,flan. to Perform at Memorial Chapel C01utesyof Public Rdations CellistDavidFinckel and pia- nist WuHan will perfonn tonight at 8:00PM in Memorial Chapel. The concert is part of this year's . Schenec~ady Mt.Isettm-Union Col- lege chamber music series. The program is to feature Beethoven's Sonata for Cello and Piano in G minor. Op. 5. No. 2; Sonata for Cello and Piano by Andre Previn. written in 1993 for Yo-Yo Ma; artdChopin'sSo- nata for Cello and Piano in G minor, Op. 65. David Finckel, a member ofthe Gram my Award-wir1ning Emerson String Quartet, is expanding his career as a soloist this season. Wu Han, 011e <lf today's most talked-about classical artists, has garnered a reputation ~s a per- fanner whose impassioned music- making and thrilling style are bring- ing new life to the concert stage. The 1996-97 season mar'ks the de- but of the husband and wife team's new record label ,ArtistLed . Their first recording includes so- natas of Chopin, Grieg and Schumann's Adaigo and A11egro, and is featured in the Ja11uary is- sue of BBC Music Magazine. Copies of the CD and the maga- zine will be for sale at the concert for $10 eacl1. Tickets are $15 ($7 for students), and are available in advance at the Schenectady Museum by calling (518) 3 82-7890 and at the door at 7:00PM. For more information, call372-3651. M . u· . . s··1· c· / &C0111JJC.ICI d.isc:,. · .. !il'£' !>f~o\t',\\ . ca.s~·efles, vmyllp s. . . 12 ' 1 singles, cij wpe.\ . ·viD-EO playstalion . .sa/Urn, .\·ega, · · · · . snes g.yame.~·&.\:vsu·m~unol'ie5 . · · · .- & shaolinlkungfit movies . . . . CHEAP I also l'inyl/p ~~·. 1:3\ single~,· & acL'e.wries t.tlf t.lf lhe he.'il prices! ' ..... • • \ _.. .. ,.. .. • .., ,.. \\ • • .,. ..... ,. _.. • I

i . · Page 11 • February 1.3~ 1997 • IDI~t' illoucoroirnsis . . ,· . Aqs & Inte1·tain'ment l.®Cal Ans Calendar ; .FRIDAY,FEBRUARY 14 Saratoga's Home Made Theater wiH open theirproduction ofthe c01npeU ing drama The ·Deal at the Spa Little Theater. This marks the area premiere of Saratoga Springsplay- wrightMatthew Witten's award~winningplay _ The Deal is fast-paced action, pitting man against man in a story of greed, corruption, and extortion. The Deal runs through March 2. Performances are at 8:15PM Fridays and Saturdays and 1:00PM Sundays. Ticket prices are $15 and$13. For reservations or for further infonnatiM, call Home MadeTheater at (518) 587-4427. The.big time taste ofNewOrleans will once again get you up and dancing at 8:00 PM as Proctor's presents the annual Mardi Gras Festival. The authentic Cajun and Creole •cuisine- .. all served righ~ in the Proctor's arcade-. · is a delicious way to get ready for the finest celebration of Fat Tuesday north of the bayou! . The big time taste ofNewOrleanswill getyo1;1 upand dancing with some of the funkiest music you w.ill find anywhere. The celebration features all .of the sights and sounds of the Bi& Easy and starts with Cajun and Creole cuisitre. The authentic Louisiana style food that will be on sale in the arcade, befotethe showbeginrting at 5:30PM, is catered by the Glen Sanders Mansion. The arcade will be decorated New Orleans style and Mardi Gras masks and beads will also be sold to compl'ete the transformation of Proctor's Theatre into a New Orleans street fair. Tickets are $20.50 (general admission) andareavailableat Proctor's Box Office and at all TicketMaster locations. Call Proctor's Box Office at ( 518) 346w6204 for more infonnation. La Jette (French, 1962,29 minutes, b/w, l6mm, in French with English subtitles }and Les . Visiteurs Du Soir (French, 1942, 110 min11tes, b/w, 16rnm, in French withEngiish sub- titles)will be shown at 7:30PM in Page Hall, 135WestemAvenue, on the University at Albany's downtown campus. The screenings are freeand open to the public. Abnost completely composed of individual frozen p.ictures :with sparse narration, Lq Jetee, directed by Chris Marker, was the basis for the recently released I 2 Monkf:ys. Set · in the near future, the Earth has barely survived an all encompassing nuclear holocaust, which has driven the remnants of humanity Ltnderground to search for their salvation · through the manipulation oftime. In Les VisiteursDu Soir, directed by Marcel Carne, the devil sends messengers to earth to corrupt tow lovers. Made during the Occupation, this statel.y medieval fable was intended as a timely allegory oflove and eviL For additional infonnation, contact the Writers Institute at (518)442-5620. SATURDA Y,FEBRUARY 15 The Oscar-winning movie Singin' in the Rain now comes to the ·stage at Proctor's Theatre at 2:00PM and 8:00PM. As in the 1952film,the story is set in Hollywood in the ·• 'Roarftig 'fwendes. H: re-¢olves·armin~d ~\Pall\ bf celeb fitted silent film stars whose careers are in jeopardy now that \talking pictures\ are changing the movies. The spectacular dance numbers and sidesplitting routines combineTin Pan Alley, Broadway, and vaude- ville. Tickets are$28.50-$24.50, and $15.50 for children under 12. Tickets are available at Proctor's box office, by calling ( 518) 346~6204, and at all TicketMaster iocations. The final presentation of this year's Authors Theatre will be a reading of novelist Robert Stone's adaptation of his short story Miserere at 7:30PM in the Studio Theatre Performing Arts Center, on the University at Albany's uptown campus. The reading is free and open to the public... .. A controversial story of abortion, Catholic faith, and\ responsibility, \Miserere\ first appeared in the.Tune24 and July 1, 1996 summer fiction issues ofThe New Yorker. For additional information, contact the Writers r nstitute at( 518) 442-5620. A sensational murder trial, with plenty of money and motive, scandal, and suspense, heats up the scene as the New York State Theater Institute continues its 21st season. Witness for the Prosecution,directed by RaJ ph Allen, is the new production of Agatha Christie's tense courtroom dram:a, and is scheduled onstage at the Schacht Fine Arts Center ofRusseH Sage College in Troy. Perforniances will run until tonight. For more infonnation, call the box office at (518) 274-3256. SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 16 The Battle of the Big Bands- R(JUitd 2 comes to Proctor's Theatre at 7:00PM. During ·the 1940s, no musical eventcreatedmore excitement or drew a larger crowd than a \Battle of the Big Bands.\ Tluaters and arenas alike were .packed to the rafters with '~bobby soxers\ and \hep cats\ who flocked to delight in the nonstop flow of swing music and romantic ballads supplied by big name bands of the era .. Back py popular demand, Battle oftlie 13ig Bands Round 2 features the Big Band Alumni Orchestra- musicians who played with the Big Bands and made it all happen. You'll swing to the hottesthitsofthe bandleaders-· · Glenn Miller, Jimmy Forsey, Kay Kyser, and Gene Krupa. Tickets are $25.50-$20.50. Tickets are available at Proctor's Box Office and at all TicketMaster locations. NOW SHOWING Works by Capital Region craftspeople are among the more than 200 works by contemporarycraftors from across New 'York State selected for exhibition in Contem- pQrary New York State Crafts, the first comprehensive exhibit of contemporary crafts from thro~1ghout New .York State. The New York State Museum in Albany organized the exhibit which wi.ll be on ·view at the Musemn from February 6through May 26, 1997. Works in clay, fibre, glass, metal, mixed 1nedia, and wood were submitted by artists from the Westem and Central regions oftl1e state, the Adirondacks, and the Hudson Valley including New York City and Lm1g'l sland. For more infonnation, call (518) 4 74- 5$77. . ·rheAibany Instituteof History & Art is c~lebrating the bicentennial of the City of Albany serving as the New York State cap ita! with The Capital Comes to Albany, a new exhibition presenting the stories cfpeople, events, and issues surrounding the· establish1nentof Albany as the pennanenthome of New York State government in 1797. The exhibit alsoexplores the life ()fl11e city of Albany at the time of the 1897 celebrationofthe.centeJlnial of the Capital in Albany. The Capital Comes to AI bally draws on a selection ofportraits, photograpl1s, documents, and objects from collec- tions of the Albany Institute. The exhibit also examines the society and ~ulture in Albany at the end of the 18th century. [twill be on view in the Albany Institute's South Gallery through June I, 1997. The Albany Institute of History & Art is located at 125 Washington Avenue in downtown Albany. Call (518) 463-4478fbrinfonnation. ALSOATTHEALBANYINSTITUTEOF HISTORY &ART January l8-March2; Marble Dust and Magic Lakes: American Sandpaper Paint- ings from tfae Collection of Randall ami Tanya Holton. A m~jor folk art exhibition focusing on 19th century charcoal and pastel drawings on sandpaper. East & West Galleries, Main Hall. January 18- March 2: Mac Fawlty Slt()W. Works by regional artists who are also instructors in the Albany Institute's Museum Art Class and Art Partners programs. MAC Gallery. January 25-April 13 • Leon Marcotte: l?t!l Century Cabinet Maker and Interior Decorator. Features ani mportant suite o fc. 1865 Louis XVI furniture designed and manufactured by the French-born cabinct1naker Leon Marcotte ( 1824-1887), along with Eastrgan Johnson painting depicting a piece of the furniture. ATTHEALBANYCENTER GALLERIES January 17 -February 28: The MohawkHudson Regional invitational, featuring work by Judith Brust, Steve Perkins and Thomas Sarrantonio, in the Leslie Urbach GalleJY. January 17-February 28 Paintings DY Gerri Pugliese Moore, in the Upstairs GalleJY. The Albany Center Galleries arc located at the corner of Chapel and Monroe Streets. in downtown Albany. Formoreinfonnation call (518) 462-4775. Chart-Toppers A Quick Look at What's Entertaining America Top Five Films Title Gross (in millions) 1. Star Wars $35.9 2. Jerry Maguire $5.2 3. Scream $4.5 4. Evita · $4.4 5. Metro $4.4 J op FiVe Television Programs Title l.ER 2. Seinfeld 3. Friends· 4. TheNakedTI:'uth 5. Horrieimprove~ent Viewers (in millions) 33,6 33.5 2RO 25.7 24.6 (Week ofJanuary27-February2) Gross to date $358.6 $116.6 $70.4 $36.8 $24.8 Last week 3 4 7 6 10 Top Five Album Sales Artist 1. Soundtrack 2. NoDo.ubt 3. Soundtrack 4. Celine Dion 5. Toni Braxton Top Five Video Rentals Title 1. Phenomenon 2. The Rock 3. A Time to Kill 4.Eddie 5. D3: Th.e Mighty Ducks Title Gridlock'd Tragic Kingdom Evita Fallinglnto You Secrets Distributor Touchstone Hollywood Warner Hollywoqd Walt Disney Label Death Row/Interscope Trauma!Interscope WamerBros. 550 Music/Epic LaFace/ Arista Last week 1 3 2 5 8 -. All information courtesy Entertai11rnent Weekly ,,

Stephen V. Potenza Contributing Writer Still wiping the tears ofjoy from my eyes that had welled up after Bill Clinton's refreshing ora tory extolling the virtues of bipartisanship, I regurgitated my dinner into the toilet bowl. As Christopher \Buckley editor of Forbes FYI .succinctly puits it in his essay \Let's Keep the Pol in Politics\ (New York Times, February 4, 1. 997), \making nice is not what politics is all about.\ In his State of the Union Address, Cli11ton called _on his partisan ·rivals in Con- gress to work together with him. \The people of this nation,\ he proclaimed, \elected us alL They want us to be partners, not parti- sanso They put us all here in the same boat, they gave all Global News Two Opposing Perspectives D·on't Row That Boat! oars, and they told us to political outlooks, to repre- forgotten or tmdervaltted in row.\ Hogwash. The senttheinterestsoftheirpo- the process of legislating. \people elected their repre- litical districts and States in That is h.ow differences are sentatives and senators and, Congress. What is not true, resolved in a democracy. yes, President Clinton not to however, is that these gov- Some legislation never· pat each other on the back ernmental officials are then makes it past debate. Some and pass legislation that supposed to quickly .set a takes longer to debate than both sides can agree on eas- course and start rowing the others. But to demand that ily but to de- our reptesen- bate, vigor- tatives in oust y if need No, before rowing, our elected officials c on g res s ~:~t 1 :7/:~~tit~: must determine which course is the best ~:ife over a~~ lives of those course to set for the ·country; and that move straight to negotiation or conlpto- people in im- portant ways. should not(andwillnot) be an easy task. True, voters put a centrist Democrat in the same boat as right-lean- ing Republicans and left- leaning Democrats; and true, everyone was given ~'oars\ to gu-ide that boat. But that's not earth shattering news. That's what citizens do in a representative democracy such as ours - eJect repre- sentatives, often of varyittg boat gently down the stream. No, before rowing, our elected officials n1ust . determine which course is the best course to set for the country; and that should not (and will not) be an e.asy task Debate, negotiation, and eventually comprise are needed to move legislation. Debate though cannot be mise is not only an unrealistic demand to place on our politicians, it is an irresponsible de-· mand h.1. a democracy. The deliberations of the Con- • • j • gress, no matter how ven-- omous they may become at times, are the lifeblood of our nation's cohesion, for such deliberations allow dif- fering views on issues of public concern to be aired and given their due within the goverrutl.ent. So I'n1 ve.ry sorry Mr. President, but before we start rowing the country back down the stream of government activism toM ward, for exampJe, that oa- sis of government directed education for an you see in the distance, let's take the oars out of the water and have a good old fashioned political scrap over the di- rection the federal govern- ment should take regarding education. Or maybe we should just put the oars in the water and row the boat to the .tune of your Call to Action for American Educa,.. tion in a spirit of partner- ship. Afte.r all_ the last time we gently rowed down that streahl, we waged an effec- tive war on poverty .... didn't we? The L 'b 0 ' e}·al Co . , nunent:t,.y Clinton's Brid.ge to the 21st Century by Jody ~o-usseau Staff Writer Last week/ the politically aware American public tuned into yet anothet State of the Union Address. The first State of the Union of Clinton/ s second term of- fered little new information for the American public in comparison to what had been said in l<tst year's Ad- dress. Similar to last year's Address, Clinton focused on a vast array of issues during his speech, wllich exceeded an hour. Education reform, quality health care, and crime were a few of the pri- mary issues on which Clinton focused throughout the address. Throughoutth.e State of the Union Address, the concept of a bipartisan effort in government was stressed. In Clinton's presidential campaign last year, we heard repeatedly the phrase, \Let's build a bridge to the 21st century.\ This State of the Union Address was Clintod s first attempt to plan the consb'uction of the bridge. From. a bipartisan or even a Demo~ratic stand- point, Clinton's goals for this term were determined with a lot of heart and little mihd. Though many of the con- cepts addressed in the S~ate of the Union were idealisti- cally outstanding, making them a goal for the next few years seems practicall)r .un- . .; reC~.listi.c. Many of the...pro- posals given would ·take much more time to develop than Clinton predicts th.ey will take, which will leave an already disenchanted America in disbelief of Clinton's abilities to lead the bipartisan effort. The education reforms proposed. in the Addressare just one example of the ide- alistic foolishness that Clinton delivered to the American public last week.· He reinstated his \Call to Action for American Educa- tion.\ Education reform has long been a priority of the Clinton administration, and it is an issue that must be addressedo In comparison to many other economically developed countries, the United States is behind in educational standards on the primary and secondary levels. I agree with Presi- dent Clirtton that education reform must be dealt with immediately, but Clinton is not proposing reform. He is proposing overnight recon- structiono Goals 2000 is an edttca- tional reform plan drafted a few years ago to initiate na- tionwide education refor:tns. Presently, states have mt.tch more power over the edttca- tional system than the fed- eral government. This could entail conflict, considering that much of Goals 2000 is based on higher nati01tal standa1rds of education. Last year, Clinton stated in his State of the Union Ad- dress that every classroom in America would have a computer by 2000. This year he upgraded that standard, stating that every classroom in An1erica would have Internet acces-s by 2000. Nationwide, we are pres- • ently far from having com- ·puters in every classroom, let alone have Internet ac- cess in every classroom. Es- sentially, having the Internet in every classroom would raise the standards of edu~ cation and allow students access to worldwide infor- mation in an instant. In this case, Clinton needs to con- centrate on the essentials and then upgrade his stan- dards. His goal in this case is not credible. Another aspect of educa- tion reform that Clinton con- centrated on in his Address was that every American should attend two or more years of college. This is an excellent idea, but what would a drastic increase in college enrollment do to the qua1ity of education? I am not a statistician, nor am I an education expert, but I would predict that the qual- ity of education would de- crease if an immediate in- crease in college enrollment occurred. This is the con- trary to what Cli'nton' s plans predict. A gradual increase in college enrollment would be ·an exceUent plan, but not in the next tnree years. Education reforms are just a small .portion .of wha.t Clinton delivered in last week's State of the Union Address, but they rep1·esent the noti9h that Clint011 is in too much of a hurry. The 1997 State of the Union Ad- dress offered the Anterican public catchy phrases and cliches such as \parks not poison,\ and a \bridge to the 21st cenhtry .\ Clinton's political rhetoric did a great job of hiding the essential fact that he was delivering a revised version of last year's speech. Essentially, the State of the Union Ad- dress covered relevant and salient issues; however, Clinton did not deliver what the American public needs. Our country is in \trouble but his plans would work, if Clinton would allow them more time. If Clinton wants to \build ' . a bridge\ the way he is pro- posing, it will be a-substan- dard bridge that will not last · past, the first eouple of de- cades of the .21st century. Amerka definitely does heed many social a.nd eco- nomiC rt;!forms, especially in the arenas of education, health CClre, and crime. However, in the future Clinton must set more real- istic goals for the American public. Clinton's 1997 State of the Union Address con- sisted of kindhearted notions and a plan for a meaningful effort. However, we will see if next year's State of the Union Address restates this year's goals, as this year's Address restated last year's goals. Clinton will accom- plish his goals only by mak- ing his means more practi- cally comprehensive and less idealistico The American public does not want to hear the same State of the Union Address again and again.

Put the world at your fingertips. Software Engineering Systems Engineering Compute-r Design Signal Processing Electro-Opti~s lmag.e ~ro·cessing With .Raytheon Electronic Systems, you'll create the technologies that define the .future of tomorrow's world. You'll. maxhnize your Engineering ancl Computer Science knowledge and make an impact. wben you join ot~r team. We currently have over 350 oppottu\ities available in the technical areas listed above. Raytheon Electronic Systems will be -\isiting campus. soon. To find out more about the complex cttallenges we have to offer, please contact the Career Placemen·t Office to sign up for an interview. For additional information, please see our homepage at: http://www.raytheon.com/res Interested candidates who are unab.le to m~t with us on campus may send· a resume directly to: ·Raytheon Electronic Systems, Professional Staffing, M/S 'T2Sl2, 50 Apple Hill Drive, Tewksbury, MA 01. 876-0901. ~: (508) 8584163. E-mail: staffing@re!!!.ray.com U.S. -citizenship may be required for SClme positions. Equal Opportunity Entployer. . Raytlleon Electronic Systems· .. #3LAW SCHOOL IN, THE COUNTRY·· FOR STUDENT SATISFACTION Western :\i-ew England Col1ege School of Law was ranked #3 for student satisfaction according to the latest National Jliristl Princeton Review survey of28,000 law students.\ The atmosphere is both intellectually rigorous and student-friendly. The facultY love to teach and thev have outstanding academic and professional credentials. In fact. the professors were ranked in the top 25o/c for publication volume in the niO'St recent Chicago Kent Lau: Reuieu: facultv · scholarship • survey. Open House for Prospective Law Students . If you're considering goihg .t<> law schci>0LY-<lU can find out ever.ything vou need to kno.._: aboat admisSi()llS, financial aid_ legal <:areers. and ou1· unique student-centered programs at our up- coming- ()pen house. We:Stern . NewEngland .· Coll~ge ·. S~hool ofLaw - Open House for Pro$pective Stud~nt$ Saturday, Feb.-.uary·22,.1•4pm S. Prestl,ey Blake Law-Center 1215 Wilbrsilia.m :E~ad Springfi~ld, Mas*~ch1isetts For reservations and more i11forooation call: 800·782-6665 Visit our Web Site at http:/fwww.Iaw.wnec.edu ' - . . . ANY 5 I Z E. R·O L L . 4 11 Double Prints THE COLLEGE STORE REAMER CAMPUS CENTER SALE EFFECTIVE FEB. 6 - 28 24 HOUR SERVICE UN.ION LAUNDRY. 561 NOTTST SCHENECTADY NY 12308 {ACIIOSS FlfOII UNION COUEGE} OPEN DAILY BAM TO 10:30PM FRI!E DRYING Tli!SOAYS & THURSDAYS SAMT03PM $1 PER WASH. fill WASH 7 WAs'fifFOR $5, 28 WASHES FOR $20. MAL: (OR DEPOSIT fo4.0tJR SUQGESf.,.·BOX) THIS AD TO UNION LAUNDRY FOR A FREE WASH. INCt.UDE ~NAME AND ADOAESS. MAKE YOUR MEGA MOVE TODAY! \'\-the dutch hollow-- restauran.__ __ CDC Updates **Workshops and Programs** Job Search Strategies Workshop----Tuesday, February 18, at 4 PM Internship Workshop---Wednesday, February 1 9, at 4 PM or 7 PM **Recruiting Information** Parsons Brinckerhoff, Inc. Resume Deadline--Friday, February 28 Kodak (scannable) Resume---Friday, February 28 Drop In Hours: • Mon-Fri 3-5 ·

()age_ l4 • February 13,.1997 •. W:ltc QJ:ottcoroicnsis . ·. ?ports Skating Dutchmen Split Weekend . . . by Jonathan Gasthalter Sports Editor The tied-for-seventh-place, 6- 6-2 Skating Dutchmen took a trip to the North Country this past weekend, to face off against a nati·onally-ranked Clarkson Golden Knights team, who the Dutchmen defeated 2-1 in No- vember at Achil'les, and a ninth- place St. Lawrence team, with four players drafted by NHL teams. Friday night, Union visited the beautiful Cheel Arena at Clarkson University, a complex containing a food court, bookstore, and over- all College Center. Underneath a Pepsi-sponsored scoreboard the teams took the ice. Trevor Koenig was in the net for the Dutchmen, making his first start against an ECAC team since Jatmary 11 against Brown. His counterpart on the other end of the ice was Dan Murphy, playing in his 1 dOth game for the Golden Knights. Both teams played a strong defensive style with nei- ther team generating arw real scoring opportunities in the first half of the period. Union's best chance came around the ten- minute mark as Chris Ford and Russ Monteith combined for a beautiful give-and-go play that began in the neutral zone. Un- fortunately, Murphy was in per- fect position and made the stop closing the five-hole on Monteith. Koenig came up big on a couple of close plays for the Dutchmen, but was beaten at 17:03 of the period, as Chr:is Clark beat Koenig to score his seventeenth goal of the season, giving Clarkson a 1-0 lead. The second period began much like the first, with Union strug- gling to get strong offensive op- portunities. Clarkson increased its lead to 2-0 on the power-play, as Jean-Francais Prentice and Monteith to cut the Clarkson lead to two With 1 :01 to go in the period .. Final:ly, with time running down, Monteith.net- ted his seventh of the season as he poked home a John Sicinski rebound with :01 on the clock to make the score 3-2. Koenig and the defense played a solid game, with the Union netminder kick- ing out forty shots. The following ,night, the Dutch- men traveled to Appleton Arena, position and made the sa:ve, send- ing the puck up ice, where Union would get its first opportunity to score of the evening. Brent · Ozarowskl shot the puck high and hit the cross-bar, as he skated in on a two on one against the St. Lawrence goaltenderCI int Owen. St. Lawrence got on the board first as Derek Ladoucer heat Koenig. Thirty-five seconds la~er, the Dutchmen tied the game. Arrdrew Wi II snuck in from the point and Houle completed a nice circle of passing to beat Koenig at 13 :04 of the perio<;i. The Dutchmen, having gone into the third period down 2-0 against \After Friday night's performance, we ad- dressed the fact that guys had to be prepared. In essence, the game on Saturday was a four point game. Everyone prepared better for Saturday night and it showed,~' snapped a Prentice pass by the Saint goaltender to even the score at one ap1ece. The Dutchmen were able to get off to an early scoring start in the second period on Brown, werehop- ing for a comeback similar to that of the game at Achilles on Friday, January 31, in which the team exploded for four third-period goals to beat the Brown Bears 4- 2. However, with a Union skater in the penalty box, Clarkson's Hobey Baker candidate Todd White put the puck past Koenig to score his twenty-sixth goal of the season and up the Golden Knights lead to 3-0. Union did muster some scoring with Koenig pulled to the bench for a sixth skater. Mark Szucs got his sixth goal of the season from Jay -John Sicinski- a far cry from the quality of the Clarkson rink. Union entered the trad-ition-filled wooden arena, shaped like a barn, in need of a win. The loss the night before had puttheDwtchmen in eighth place. Once again with Koenig in goal for the Dutchmen, the teams came out of the box for what would be a clutch-arid-grab style hockey game. St. Lawrence got an eatly .scor- ing opportunity as Derek McLaughlin got past the Union defense and came in all alone against Koenig. Koenig was in the power-play, as Ryan Cassidy sat in the penalty box for hold- ing. Monteith gothis second goal of the weekend to completeatext- book power-play for the Dutch~ men. Szucs sent a pass to Jaime .Antoine that went offhis stick aryd right to Monteith, who buried. it in the Saint goal to push Union outtoaf-llead, Koenigstopped all sixteen of the St. Lawrence shpts,.and the;; periqd ended with Union hold.ing on to the lead:. The third period ft:,:atured some .solid.offensive opport~mities for the Saints as Joel Prpic, a 6 '1\ 220~pound player drafted by the Boston Bruins in 1993, blasted a shot that j-ust went wide ofthe net. Koenig stopped all eight shots and Uni~n went on to win by the score ~f4-1. Sicinski felt that the team was better prepared f!Jf Sat- urday night. \After Friday night's perforrrwnce, .we addressed the fact that guys had to be prepared. In essence, the game. on Saturday was a f«;>ur point game. Every- one prepared better for Saturday night, and it showed,\ he said. The win evens the Dutchmen's record at 7-7-2 and places the tearri in a thrree-way tie for sixth place with Harvard and Colgate. Union isjust three points out of fifth place behind Princeton. The Dutchmen take on the tied- for-first-place Vermont Cata- mounts and Dartmouth this week- end at Achilles in whatis sure to be a solid weekend of hockey. Koenig feels that the weekend will be a big one for the Dutch- men. \lt is another four points that we have to get. The home fans give us momentum,\ he said. BETWEEN :rHE PIPES Union's overall record of 14- 10-2 means that it has doubled its last season win total. Russ Monteith had three points on the week.end. As.sistant Captain Ryan D-ortovan:_w.ill play in his 1 OOth game as a Dutchmen Fri~ day night. Trevor Koenig stopped 74 shots this weekend. ; Track Teams Finish Strong at UCAA Meet Dutch women Get First Road· Win by Jason Everett Sports Writer The Union men's and women's track teams traveled to Ham.ilton this past Saturday for the second annual UCAA Indoor Track & Field Championships. The men finished fourth with 13 points in the men's competition while the women finished fifth with 7.5 points in their five-team contest. The men were once again no- ticeably thin in filling events and had only a handful of standout perfonnances. In the field, Bryan Roy had a prodHctive day taking fourth in the long jump with a leap of6.03 meters, and second in the triple jump with a measure of 12.69m. Jason Jennings also had a good day taking fifth in the Iongjump with 5.95m, and fourth in the high jump with 1.72m. Turning to the track, senior Co- captain Dave Riggi had a some- what off-day taking third in the 55m with a 6.75 after a 6.78 in the prelims. Riggi also took fifth in the 200m in 24.24. The only other Union runner to score was fellow junior co-captain Jay Goldberg in the 3000m. Goldberg finished fourth in 9:31 only hours after imitating a I O,OOOm racewal ker in the 1500m, still showing the effects of illness. The men's results areas fol- lows: Weight Throw: 8. Damon Bizelll0.23~ 10. Jared Sandman 9.28~ Shot Put: 9. Ben Blackwood 12.00~ 12. Peter Mody 10.80; 13 . .Jared Sandman 9. 71; Long Jump: 4. Bryan Roy 6.03; 5 . .Jason Jennings 5.95; 6. Jesse Prisco 5..87; 7. Mike Martin 5.64; 10. William Marshall5.43; Triple Jump: 2. Bryan Roy 12.69; 4. Mike 1\;Iartin 12.30; 9. Jesse Prisco 1 1.09: High Jump: 4 Jason .lenni~gs; 55m: 3. David Riggi 6.75 (6.78p); I 0. Brian Goldberg 7.1 4; I I. Dan Carroll 7.23; lSOOm: 10. Alex Milite.llo 5:12:11. Jay Goldberg 5:31; 400m: 14. Carlos Mantilla 57.58; 800m: 9 . .lames Scott; 200m: 5. David Riggi 24.24; 5. William Marshall 24.40; 12. Jesse Prisco 24.99; 13. BrianGoldberg25.05; 15. Carlos Mantilla 26.52; 3000m: 4. Jay Goldberg 9:31; 1600m relay: 3. 3:45.53; Pole Vault: 3. David Northrup 3.05; Dan Carroll - FOUL; Dan Cou- ture- FOUL. Track Notes: The men's 3200m relay meet record set by Union last year in the inaugural UCAA meet re- mained intact(8: 16.58)by seven seconds. Peter Flynn's 800m record was not as fortunate (2:02.75), being broken by three runners running2:01.79-:02.7. The women's team collectively had a disafJpointing day but had several strong individual perfor- mances. Junior Sara Gower had an outstanding day with two per~ sonal bests. Gower took sixth in the 400m with a I :06.9 and eight in the 200m with 29.65. Katie MacDowell continued to run well and had a personal best in the 1500m, running 5:19.51 and plac- ing seventh. Four other women scored in the meet. Michelle Woodward placed fourth in the weight throw, and Kathy Bugden also ean:Jed fourth in the triple jump. Carolyn Cieslowski tied for third in the high jump, and Sara Mcintosh placed fifth in the 5000. As Mcintosh continues to improve, she may have a shot at qttalifying for states next weekend at the Hamilton Invitational. The women's team was again without sophomore Jessica Goveia this week due to illness. The women's results are as fol- lows: Weight Throw: 4. Michelle Woodward 1 0.59; 9. Hillary London 7.31; 10. Jayne Seekins6.92; Shot Put: 7. Jayne Seekins 8.23; 8. Hillary London 7.09; 12. Michelle Vanderloon 4.39;. Triple Jump: 4. Kathy . Bugden 9.43; High Jump: 3. Carolyn Cieslowski 1.42; 55mH 6. Emily Beck 9.95 (9.79p); 55m: 8. Randi Spi~gal8.11 (8.08p); 13. Cequyna Moore 12.95; 1500m: 7. Katie MacDowell5: 19.51; 12. Molly Hood 5:50.74; 400m: 6. Sara Gower 1 :06.90; 800m: 16. Maura Woessner 3:09.66; 17. Jen Roberts 3: 14.40; 5000m: 5. Sara Mcintosh 20:54.12; 200m: 8. Sara Gower 29'.65; lo. Randi Spiegal 29.92; 17. Brenna Maguire 31.53; 18. Daniella Chiulli 32.07; 3000m: 5. Irene Kan 13: 16.43; 7. Amy Marko 17:44.67; l600m relay: 5. 4:49.18. This weekend Union travels to Hamilton to compete in the Hamilton Invitational. The team has State's the following weekend at SUNY Fredonia. by josh Adams Staff Writer The Union Dutchwomen.bas- ketball team: took a weekend swing up north to battle Clarkson University and St. Lawrence :Uni- versity. The Dutchwomen beat Clarkson in a tight game, 56-52, for: their first road and conference win of the season. The women then traveled to St. Lawrence the next night and dropped a tough game; 63-55. Their record after this weekend now stands at 3~ 15 overall and l-7 in the UCAA. Freslunan Leal1 Oliveri continued her out~tanding rookie campaign with 13 points on Friday, and 22 on Saturday against St. Lawrence. In the game against Clarkson; each player contributed to the win. Mary Sch~ltz had I 0 re- bounds, which is unheard of for a point guard. Amy Hitz and Tanya Capparello each r;oured in 10 points, while Amy Dougherty contributed with I 0 points and nine boards. ·\The game was well played,\ Coach Mary Ellen Burt com- mented on her team's perfo.r- . mance. ''We executed our plays, and things turned out nicely.\ The Dtttchwomen were unable to carry the nromentw:n from this win, as they fell to the St. Lawrence Saints. Unimi was able to stick with th;e Saints in the first half, going into the intenniss.ion tied at 26. Oliveri continued her torrid scoring pace, putting in: 22 points and hitting eight of her free-throws. Dough~rty and Hitz each had 10 po.ints and Capparello contributed with five assists. The-Saints were able to score a couple of three pointers early in the second half, and even- tually pulled away from the Dutchwornen~ \We came up short against St. Lawrence on a couple of defense shots,\ Coach Burt said. Kristen Buhl was the dagger in the heart of Union, connecting on five three-pointers, on route to a 25- pointnight. Amy Hitz is continuing her memorable senior campaign. She currently is fourth in the UCAA in scoring •. averaging 1 3. 9 points, and shooting 41 percent from the field. She is also fourth in re- bounding, with 169 total, and av- eraging lO boards a game. She is a prime candidate for the UCAA all-conference team. She is also among the top free-throw shoot- ers, hitting 51-68 of her shots, good for 7 5 percent. Sophomore Mary Schultz is also having a terrific season. She is among the league leaders in three-point shooting, steals, and assists .. Schultz currently is fourth in assists with 3.7 per game, and fifth in st~als, averaging 2. 9 a game. Dougherty is also among the league leaders in blocks. She has 24 through 17 games, andre- jects 1.4shotsagame. Thisweek- end, she averaged over six blocks against Clarkson and St. .Lawrence. Union played Vassar February 12. In the upcoming week, the Dutchwomen travel to Hamilton on Friday,..and then to William Smith on Saturday. ( l t I t r r r t r I ( q s c \\i \ tl a a I-

S1 ~b1 4 uary 13, 1997 • Page 15 By this point, m0st sports fans· have ventured out to see \Jerry Maguire.\ Every timeone turns on J:~SPN, one is apt to .hear the phtase \Show me the money!\ This has become the catch phrase for th.e sports media world and for all those w.bo play the games. This past·weekend, The New YQr{c Timesran a column describ· . ing this generation of'ceTebrities as the'\'mc generatiQn.' 1 Pro ath- letes have done their fair share to contribute to this image of wor- rying about contracts instead of perforrnance. Every time players score a touchdown orrC;~gisters a thunder• ous dun:k, they find ,it -necessarY to jump up and down. They poundtheir fistS and revel intl;tei'r momentary greatness,: spending every cent of energy promoting· themselves for their next contract negotiations. However, when· a bonehead play occurs, it is not the falllt of these heroes. The blame fDr mis- cues falls on the coaches~ the management, and the owners ..yho sign the paychecks. ·These self- rignteous players even have the audacity to demand that coaches be fired for disagreeing with play- ers. lt seems that as soon as the inmates start running the asylum, the egos tend to expand like the plague. These players have forgotten to realize some very simple facts. There are very welt-paid ath'letes who rarely play for .the Jove-of the game. They play for contracts that guarantee large sums forme• diocre play. These legends--in their own minds--do not have to refund their paychecks for poor play. If anyone besides an .ath- lete gave a poor perfonnance on thejQb, that person would beter- minated. Why do we as fans take this insolent attitude? Is it because we . . ' · have nothing else to entertain us on a boring weekend? Even bet- ter, let it be for the chance that we mightseean athlete giving his or her all, I 00% of the game. Notall fans except this attitude. The NFL recently saw a record ·number of no-shows during this past season. Their television rat- ingsare down, and this cannot be solely the fault of poor teams in big-market cities such as New York and Chicago. Poor attendance is not only oc- . curring in pro football. The NBA has seen popularity take a slight dip, even in their glorious fiftieth year. The NHL may be the only exception to this rule, as their numbers slowly rise; With the formation of mo.re and more leagues, and with the addition of women's leagues, there is no longer the need to watch the greedy perform. The time has come for sports fans throughout our great society to fight back. We must unite to Stop. the \me generation\ in sports, and we must take back the games that we love. It does not matter which sport one might sup- port, be it basketball, baseball, hockey, or football. lt is the fans who Watch the games, bqy the apparel, and fiJl the arenas. These are our games. Let the athletes show us the money, o;r at least a . . ' httl~ better play. ******** There are points in everyone's life when he or she must look down the road and realize that the time has come for a break. Pro- fessors and professionals call this time a sabbatical. Others might Shooting Dutchmen Rise to Meet Challenge by Frank Rossi Staff Writer If there is such a thing as a moral victory, then the Union men's basketball team had two moral victories last week Last Wednesday, the Dutchmen lost to llationally-ranked WilliarnsCol- lege, 84-56, at the Memorial Fieldhouse. The weekend brought five-hundred miles of travel and two more I osses for the Dutchmen, as they 1 ost to Clarkson University on Friday night, 64-48, and St. Lawrence University on Saturday evening, 71-65. The Dutchmen were able to keep pace with.Williams in the first five minutes of the game Wednesday night, but the next ten minutes brought a Williams run. At one point .in the first half, the Dutchmen trailed by 25, but Rob Groelzhelped lead the Dutchmen back to within 17 points by half- time,44-27. Union contintted to pour on a comeback attempt in tl1e second half, pulling witltinl2 points with fifteen minutes re- maining. Unfortunately, Will- iams was able to put together one inore large run before the end of the game, winning by 28 points. To some people, this would represent a blowout, but the Dutchmen, who were led by Rob Groelz's 27 points, refused to quit. Head Coach B.ob Montana said, \We had a spot in the sec- ond halfwhere our intensity level was high, but it was a case of Williams being a really good team. They just had too many answers.\ Those. answers gener. ally came from Williams' Matt Hunt, who had 27 points of his own; going a perfect 7 for 7 from pace worked for two reasons: the three-point range. Williams also Dutchmen were hitting their shots out-rebounded the Dutchmen. 42- and the Saints became frustrated 22. as they were unable to control the Friday night, in the bitter cold game at the pace they wanted. of Potsdani, NY, the Dutchmen After leading formostofthe first faced the Clarkson Golden half,theDutchmentrailedathalf· Knights in a UCAA showdown. time, 33-29. Coach Montana explained, Many people anticipated a St. \Early we had trouble getting our ~_Lawrence run to open the second defensive intensity where it, half, but Coach Montana and his needed to be. I felt fortunate that team continued running their set we were tied at halftime.\ That offense, and St. Lawrence contin- 26-26 halftime score did not last ued shooting relatively poorly. long as Union shot under 30per- The Dutchmen were able to take cent in the second half. Nobody the lead with sevenminutes to go, fortheDutchmenreacheddouble but the Saints' Andy digits in scoring, as Doyin Bardeschewski was able to an- Richards led the team with nine swer many of Union's threats, points. hitting four three-pointers on the Montana added, \I think the evening. With less thana minute difficulty is trying to sustain a left, Rob· TeCa:rr hit a three- good level of play for so long a pointer, bringing the Dutchmen period of time,\ since Union beat within one point. The Saints were regionally-ranked Hamilton the able to answer and made the re- ptevi ous Friday, came back mainder of their free throws to againstHobartthenextnight, and finallybeattheDutchmen, 71-65. then fought Williams .hard Rob Groelz Jed the Dutchmen Wedn~sday. Three players were with 16 points and great defense. in double digits for the Kni_ghts, Rob TeCarr and Doyin Richards. whoswepttheDutclimenthissea· both contributed 13 points, as son. Richards opened up the second On paper, Saturday's matchup half with five quick baskets from · looked like a possible blow<Jut the lane. Greg Sutton led the before the game was even played. Saints with· 23 points. Montana St. Lawrence beat the Dutchmen was impressed with his team's by 3 8 points in Schenectady just ability to play well Saturday. \To a few weeks earlier, and Union the kids' credit, they were com- was on a three-game losing streak ing offtough games against Wil- · coming into Saturday. St. liamsand Clarkson. We;re look- Lawrence was also the second- ing at St. Lawrence as a positive ranked team in the Division III as we go on the road again.\ EastR.egionPoJI. The Dutchmen (5-14, 3-5 Unexpectedly, Union set the UCAA) travel this weekend to paceofthegame by continuously Hamihon and Hobart. lf the taking the 3 5-second clock down Dutchmen play as they did on to less than ten seconds before Saturday, they have the abilityto . taking a shot. . This deliberate rise up in the standings. Intramural Update Men's Basketball A League term this break as soul searching orfinding one~s self Team Beta Bomb Squad Dream Team FIJI SigPhi Wild Turkey Wins Losses 3 1 I 3 4 0 2 3 0 5 3 I Forthe past couple ofterms, it has been my honor to create a column. There have been times when I have taken heat for attack- illg programs and .individuals. Some even have said that l was too considerate to President Hull · on the rink issue. Men's Basketball B League Team WiHS Losses AEPi 2 1 Carboard Bx 2 0 Devil Dogs 2 0 Do a Dance 1 2 Lodge 0 2 Phi Delt 0 3 2nd FL West 2 1 No matter whatthe topic, I have always tried to be. open-minded and to bring the issues to you, the reaaer, not as a fan, but from an independent view. f hope that those who follow this ·column have enjoyed the ride. It is a promise that I will return to this spot in the not.sodistant future. Men's Hockey Monday Night For the imrri.ediate future, en- joy the writing of Josh Adams. He is young, energetic, and bound to lower a few egos, not only on a pro sports level, but also around campus. Team Cornish FIJI Lodge Psi U SigChi Southern Co Wins Losses 0 2 2 0 0 2 0 2 2 0 2 0 In case anyone is looking for me, you will find me (with no offense to ESPN's Stuart Scott) on the other side ofthe pillow, just keeping cool. Thanks ... Men's Hockey Tuesday Night Team Wins Losses No Good 0 1 Old Time 1 0 Rangers 0 1 South Pole 1 0 ... and let me be the first to en- dorse Frank Rossi for Student Fa- rum President. Men's Broom Ball Sunday Men's Broom ball Wednesday Team Wins Losses Flying Goats 1 1 · Hector 2 0 Phi Delt I 1 PsiU 0 2 SigChiA I 0 Team Wins Losses AEPi 1.5 1 5 Goodfellas 0.5 2.5 P. Spencer 2.5 0.5 Sig Chi B 1.5 1.5 Sig Phi 0.5 2.5 Swan's 2.5 0.5 TDChiA 1 I Standings Courtesy of the Intramural Director More results will appear in the next edition of Women's Broomba/1 Team WitlS Ice-A-Tone 2 LaFemme's 0 The Concordienis Sweepers I 2/14- 2/15- 2/14- 2/15- 2/14- 2/15- 2/15- Men's Hockey . VERMONT DARTMOUTH Women's Basketball @Hamilton @William Smith Men's Basketball @Hamilton @Hobart Track @Hamilton Invy Losses 0 2 I 7:30 7:00 6:00 6:00 8:00 4:00 2:00 - ·-

'' '' Skating Dutchwomen Battle Losing Streak by Jody Mousseau Sports Writl!r The Skating Dutch-women faced a challenge and were left disappointed last week,Josing to Skidmore 3-1 and tie in.g the Adirondack A team 1-l. The Skidmore game played on Wednesday, February 5 -was dis- appointing, not because it ended in a •loss, but because UnioH outshot and outplayed Sl<i<lmore in almost every aspec1 <Jf the game. Just two weeks ago, Union won againstSkidmore 4-3 in ()Vertime, but did not perform nearLy as out- . standing as they had on W~dnes­ day. Union did everything right, except put the puck in the net. Sophomore forward Leandra Collier scored Union's on1y goal in the third period. All three of Skidmore's goals were scored off reboun<ls in the first two periods. Un i<>n did an excellent job of dominating the game and keeping the ])UCk in their zone. The few times that Skidmore did break into Union's defensive zone, they took their scoring op- portunities. Union did attempt to cash in on their scoring opportu- nities, shooting everyth:i11g from the perfect low and off-the-ice shots to ones that bounced offthe crossbar, and taking approxi- mately four times more sbots on goal than Skidmore. Slcicl1nore's excellent goalie gave them their only prayer, but the only prayer they needed to secure their win, allowing them to leave Achilles with their first victory to Union ; '~ i{ f' ' _ •• Leandra Collier speeds away from a defender on a Plzoto by Laurie this season. Despite Union's loss, b<lth the offense and defense performed ex- tremely welL Women's hockey president and tri-captain Hana Yam ash ita summed up the game. \It was another tough loss to a team that we were clearly better than. Again, we controlled the game. We just couldn't put the puck in the net.\ On Friday, February 7, Union clinched their first tie of the sea- son to tbe Adirondack A's. With two consecutive losses on their record, Union skated out in their garnet jerseys, thirsty for a v·i-c- tory. In comparison to their perfor- mance on Wednesday against Skidmore, the Skating Dutchwomen did not play the pass or position quite as welL However, they performed well enough to keep them in the game, starting the game slow and pick- ing up with its progression. Sophomore defense Allison Pow- ers scored Union's only goal in the third period. Lauren Locke played an excellent game in net, allowing only one goal for the Adirondack team. Sophomore defense Sarah Moss commented, \They came out hard and aggressive, and it was a battle from the beginning. Things finally started to come to- gether for us in the third period.\ TheDutcnwomen will attempt t{) regain their winning season when-they play Skidmore away o£1 Saturday, February 15 at 7:30PM, and Boston University at 5a'vt: C>n Friday, February 22. PTeSe11;tl y, the Skating ])utchvvomen stand 5-6-l overall, witll a 5-Z record against club tear11s. At1ir:neofpress, Union h.ad not yet plared Troy Academy on Wednesday, February 12. Swimming Dives into St. Lawrence by Kelen San Sports Writer The Union College men's and women's swim teams finished off their dual meet seasons on women-were victod<:>us, the women won handily 113 to 84 points, and :the men as well with 120 points to 60 points. Although the meet included a four-hour drive~ it was a fun way to finish the season. The events the usual order of events, and some of the men swam exhibition races. Many swimmers were able to swim events that tney would notnonna.Uy swim. Matt Mauriello won the 1650 won the 100 fly, Kevin Makarowski won the 100 back- stroke, and Jeff Heurle won the 100 breastroke. Brian Fields (of course) won the I meter diving. The women won most of the events as well. With Kerry Labrandi in her 1650 debut, Erin Wittes flying through the 100 free and the 400 IM, .Jackie Crane in the 100 fly, and Heather Wiesenfluh (of course) in the 1 meter diving. Last Saturday, Feb. 1, the men's and women's teams were very successful as well against Hamilton. The women won 128 to 113, and the men won 135 to 107. The womell were really fired up for the meet, having lost to Hamilton the past two years. They knew that the team had the strengths and the depth to beat Hamilton, and many perfonned best times. It was a close meet for the women up until the very eAd when coach Judy Wolfe made a last minute decision to put Meg McCarthy in the 200 breastroke to guarantee a win. The men won the meet easily, having many first place fi'ni 5hes. fT~I'ltnan Erin Wittes summed ti:te season ~:y saying, \It was an exc~l1e11t season; it's great to see tfletearnreally come together and sup1Jort each other-especially at the end oftheseason.\ The state meets take place .for the WtHII.en February 19-22 at R..P.I. and February 25-29 at Union for the men. The swiltl- lners wiH finally be able to see their six months of hard work, dedication and early momings p-ayoff. Lii:Jranc!i feels that the win a~ainstHatnilton will be instru- lnental inpushing the momentum i11 Unior~'s favor. \One big thing tllaJtheteam was excited for was we be~~:tiiamilton, one of our big riv.al:s. Goitlg into states, we hope toc::()ntinuc on that and hope that we cando it again,\ she said M.auri~llo felt that 11 the team is really I ooking foward to the states, The team has come to- geth~r .Now it is time to snow ev- eryoneVJhat talent we have. We kn O\N ilut the hard work that we havepa1in will be an advantage for us.



·'1 ·u . .n•ni\4''r\ Burn;t Churches pagel . ' . . . ,}\(other of Hazing Victim ls'sues Wa.mfn , to Union · by Bhav.ani Meduri .. Sit!-/fWritet • F ;· - • ,_ •• • .• - • , - • Jll~~e·S.te~~s gave a poignant accqurifofl}er son's death in a fraternity l:lazing incident in or- der to deter students belongin_g to Greek organizations :from CQIJ· tinuing with the practice ofhaz• ing their pledges. Speaking to a packed Memo- rial Chapel last Wednesday, Stevens described the state afher emotions as, \shocked and dis- believing,\ after rece.iving a ·phone call from the bean of Stu- dents atAlfred University, who told her that her soh had died from an alcohol overdose at a • fraternity party. The coroner's report stated that his death was dii'ei~'·a, iifjf. with a'lnernber of the fraternity. zarreand grotesquei~i'm])utrt; of a!- Chuck was pledging. cohol andexposureto·tliifr.ee:i~ This member w~s Chuck's ing co I d. II Stevens fo~pdthis fact OWn roommatewho.called to of- hard to accept because t(>.-fi~t fer his condolences. Stevens knowledge, \Chuck was .ari· ath- took this opportunity to urge him. lete and had never abused:. aico- to share With her the actual ho 1 before. u Her disbelief.led her events of that n:jght so that she • to question the Dean who had - could receive a sense of closure very I ittle to say except that the to such a nightmarish end. How- administration would thoroughly ever, his hesitant recount ofthe examine the matter and pass her night only served to further any information that arose. shock StevenS. Stevens noted that alihough His roommate explained that there was a great outpouring of the nightofChuck'.sdeath was sympathy and supportfrom many the first day ()f \Hell Week,\ a . of Chuck's college friends, no time during which fraternity one from that fateful nlght'sparty pledges are put through arduous attended her son's funeral. And andpotential1ydangeroustasks, it was not until after the burial That· particular night, the that she was fini;:liiy abLe to speak . chntinued on page 3 S\rts: Ford Gets 100th Goal page17 Wells House Sponsors Health Series by AnjaliBalasfngham Staff·Writer A~ the first in its series ofhealth issues discussions, Wells House presented 'The Good Death,\ a talk by bioethicist Professor Baker The talk was held on Tuesday, February It, at 7PM. BakeF, a long-tel1ured professorofphilosophy at Union, established the National Health Systems Term Abroad and also helped set up the Seven- Year Medical Program. Heiscurrently working with the Ameri- can Med·ical Association to plan a conference in celebration of the organization's I 50th mmiversary. The evening's discussion centered around an actual medical case which involved several ethical issues. The patient involved, a cat- egorical aggressive businessman, was a heavy smoker who had de- veloped emphysema. Emphysema, a disease which causes the lungs to lose their elasticity, is an irreversible condition. After having con- verted his hospital room into an office, the patient deteriorated, and he asked to be transferred to the hospital's ICU so that he could be put . . \\ on a respirator. Hts request was refused, since the ICU is strictly re- served for patients with reversible conditions. After his case was re- viewed, however, the attending doctor decided t() admit him, with the rationale that intubation would definitely extend his life. After being . ,iAtl;ibated, the patient could no longer speak, and could only commu- : i1icate through blinking or hand-squeezing. In the following week, · · the attending doctor wllo had chosen to admit him took leave of his position, and the doctor who replaced him was personally opposed to the facphat the patient was in the I CU. When tile hospital beds in the u11it were filled, and elective surgeries were delayed as a result, the new attending doctor,it$ked the patient's wife :whether or not she wanted him discoonect~d:·S~e finally elected to disconnect him, and it was done. <·~-: . This Scenario characterized what Baker called the \American Oep.th.\ Americans, according to Baker, have a very gung-ho attitude towards death and will prolong a struggle against it in an attempt to regain control oftheir live~. \Americans don't acceptdeath,\ he said. \We always want to fight it.\ This modem perspective, Baker continued, owes its mots to vari- ous social factors. \In the 17th century, the average age [at death] was in the late thirties,\ he cited. \By the time we hit the mid-nineteenth century, it was the late titlies. Nowadays, it's the mid-eighties for women, and the mid~seventies for men. Barring some sort of catas- trophe ... , you will I ive more than twice as long as anyone before you has.\ Baker went on to say that \people accepted death when life was short,\ but that they n<Jw try to take advantage of available life-ex- tending techno logy. -Patient X's situation also raised several bioethical issues which ' Baker and the audience subsequently discussed. Should the patient c-ontinu~d on page 3 Educating about AIDS AIDS Panel Discusses Personal Trials AIDSspeakers enlighten Union students (photo by Michele Brick lTC) INSIDE: Ca111pu.\' News .................................... 2 New.v .. , ................... , ................ , .......... 3 Opinion:v!Editoriak ... ..................... 6 . .... :. ... by Anjali Balasingham Staff Writer On Thursday, February 13, Union welcomed a panel of speakers to discuss their experi- ence.s with AIDS. The event, sponsored by Peer Facilitators, was held in the Reamer Camplls Center auditorium at 7:30 PM. It was an emfltional experience for both the panelists and the audi- ence. The first speaker, George, has been living with AIDS for six years. \I used to say that it could never happen to me, but diseases don't discriminate,\ he admitted. Even though he has suffeted much as a result of AIDS, George chose to emphasize the positive. \I think this disease brought the bestinmeout,becausenow I feel like I enjoy life.\ He continued to describe how his personal re- lationships had changed as a re- sultofhis condition. \I was scared to tell my family, because I was scared of being denied,\ he said. After finally letting them know, he found that \ ... instead of them pushing me away, they got closer to me.\ In telling his story, George said, \l can't tell you what a doctor can tell you about [AIDS], butl'm living with it, and I feel it each and every day.'' Lori, the next panelist, lost her brother to AIDS when he was 30 years old. This loss was made all the more painful by the fact that the two were twins. \It's hard to describe the feeling that happens when you lose this other half of you,\ she said. «Irs like losing your right arn'l \ President of his class at Williams College, then a law student at Northeastern Uni~ versity, Lori's successful brother found out that he was HlV posi- tivetwo weeks after he passed the bar exam. He was homosexual, and his partner died of ATDS he- fore he himself passed on \The hardest thing about AIDS is hav- continued on page 4 Exam Schedule ................................ 9 Global News .............................. 14 Art.\· alld Enterlt:~i.nm(mt ................. ]() P er.l'cmais ...... ............................ 15 Features ....................................... 12 ,,'porl.l' ...... ................................. 2 0

I' I ' Campus: .. ·' ;~. features: Thurber'Ville page 12 U Supports Burnt Churches page3 Mother of Hazing Victim Issues Warning to Union Illem Stevens speaks to Union about hazing (plroto by Laurie Kirschner lTC) by Bhavani Meduri Staff Writer Illene Stevens gave a poignant account of her son's death in a fraternity hazing incident in or- der to deter students belonging to Greek organizations from con- tinuing with the practice ofhaz- ing their pledges. Speaking to a packed Memo- rial Chapel last Wednesday, Stevens described the state of her emotions as, \shocked and dis- believing,\ after receiving a phone call from the Dean of Stu- dents at Alfred University, who told her that her son had died from an alcohol overdose at a fraternity party. The coroner's report stated that his death was due to a, \bi- zarre and grotesque amount of al- cohol and exposure to the freez- ing cold.\ Stevens found this fact hard to accept because to her knowledge, \Chuck was an ath- lete and had never abused alco- hol before.\ Her disbeliefled her to question the Dean who had very I ittle to say except that the administration would thoroughly examine the matter and pass her any information that arose. Stevens noted that although there was a great outpouring of sympathy and support from many of Chuck's college friends, no one from that fateful night's party attended her son's funeral. And it was not until after the burial that she was finally able to speak with a member of the fraternity Chuck was pledgi11g. This member was Chuck's own roommate who called to of- fer his condolences. Stevens took this opportunity to urge him to share with her the actual events of that night so that she could receive a sense of closure to such a nightmarish end. How- ever, his hesitant Tecount of the night on! y served to further shock Stevens. His roommate explained that the night of Chuck's death was the first day of \Hell Week.\ a time during which fraternity pledges are put through arduous and potentially dangerous tasks That particular night, the continlled on page 3 Sports: Ford Gets 1 OOth Goal page 17 n . . Wells House Sponsors Health Series by Anjali Balasingham Staff Writer As the llrst Ill its scr11.:s of health issues discussions, Wells I louse presented \'The Good Death.\ u talk by biocthicist Professor Buker The talk was held on Tuesday. February 1 I. at 7 PM l3aker, L\ long-tenured rru kssor of philosophy at l 1 n ion cstahl i-.;ht•d the National! kalth Systems Term Abroad and also helped set up the Se\cn- Year Medical Program lie is wrrently \\orktng \\ ith the Amen- can Medicul Association to plan a conference 111 celebration of tlv: orgamLatton \s !50th anniversary The evening. 's discussion centered around an actual medical case which involved several ethical issues The patient mvolved. a cat- egorical aggressive businessman. was a heavy smoker \\ho had de- veloped cmplryscma Emphysema. a disease \\hich causes the lunQs to lose their clmticity. is an i-rreversible condition A tter having co~­ verted his hospital room into an office. the patient deteriorated. and he asked to be transferred to the hospitars ICU so that he could he put on a respirator His request was refused, since the ICll is strictlY re- served for patients with reversible conditions. After his case w~~s re- viewed. however, the attending doctor decided to admit him, with the rationale that intubation would definitely extend his I ifc After being intLibated, the patient could no longer speak, and could only commu- nicate through hlinking or hand-squeezing In the following \veck. the attending doctor who had chosen to admit him took leave of his position. and the doctor who replaced him was personally opposed to the fact that the patient was in the ICU. When the hospital beds in the unit were filled, and elective surgeries were delayed as a result, the new attending doctor asked the patient's wife whether or not she wanted him discol)nected. She finally elected to disconnect him, and it was done. This scenario characterized what Baker called the \American Depth.\ Americans, according to Baker. have a very gung-ho attitude towards death and will prolong a struggle against it in an attempt to regain control oftheir live~ \Americans don \t accept death,\ he said. \We always want to fight it\ This modern perspective, Baker continued, owes its roots to vari- ous social factors. \In the 17th century. the average age [at death] was in the late thirties,\ he cited. \By the time we hit the mid-nineteenth century. it was the late fifties. Nowadays, it's the mid-eighties for women, and the mid-seventies for men. Barring some sort of catas- trophe .. , you will live more than twice as long as anyone before you has\ Baker went on to say that \people accepted death when I ife was short,\ but that they now try to take advantage of available life-ex- tending tech11ology. Patient X 's situation also raised several bioethical issues. which Baker and the audience subsequently discussed. Should the patient continued on page 3 Educating about AIDS AIDS Panel Discusses Personal Trials AIDS speakers enlighten Union students (photo by Michele Brick lTC) Campus News .................................... 2 News ................................................. 3 Opinions/Editorials ........ ........ ........ 6 INSIDE: by Anjali Balasingham Staff Writer On Thursday~ February 13, Union welcomed a panel of speakers to discuss their experi- ences with AIDS. The event, sponsored by Peer Facilitators, was held in the Reamer Campus Center auditorium at 7.30 PM. It was an emotional experience for both the panelists and the audi- ence. The first speaker, George, has been living with AIDS for six years. \I used to say that it could never happen to me, but diseases don't discriminate,\ he admitted. Even though he has suffered much asaresultofAIDS. George chose to emphasize the positive \'I think this disease brought the best in me out, because now I feel like I enjoy life.\ He continued to describe how his personal re- lationships had changed as are- sultofhiscondition \I was scared to tell my family, because I was scared ofbeingdenied,\ he said. After finally letting them know. he found that\ ... instead of them pushing me away, they got closer to me.\ In telling his story, George said, \I can't tell you what a doctor can tell you about [AIDS], butl'm living with it, and I feel it each and every day \\ Lori, the next panelist, lost her brother to AIDS when he was 30 years old. This loss was made all the more painful by the fact that the two were twins \It's hard to describe the feeling that happens when you lose this other half of you,\ she said \It's like losing your right arm \President of his class at Williams College. then a law student at Northeastern Uni- Yersity. Lori's successful brother found out that he was HlY posi- tive two weeks after he passed the bar exam. He was homosexual. and his partner died of A IDS he- fore he himself passed on \'The hardest thing about AIDS is hav- collti11ued on page 4 Jixam Schedule .................. ............ 9 (1/oha/ News....... .. . . ........ I-I Arts and Entertainme111 ... .......... .. I 0 Per.wmal.c.... .. ................ .. 15 Feature.\· ..................................... 12 ,\'ports..... .. .. .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. 20

'· Page 2 •· February 20, 1~97 • Wl,c <!Iunwrl:ltcusis· . · · CamJlus New_s Campus Info Group Housing . The Student_ Affairs Cou. nc!l {SAC) invites prop~sals (rom groups that would hke group housmg. At present there 1s one ~i.-person space open in Chester Arthur~. Interested groups should s~.iitt a a proposal to the .SAC c/o Dean of Students Office, 306 Ream~. ' UNION COLLEGE C. AMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT . . . WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10,. 1997 TIIROUGH SUNDAY, FEBRUARY l~ 1997 ---.-- DATE/TIM:E LOCATION INCIDENT ' .MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10,1997: 1:30AM West College PARKING VIOLATION: Campus Center. The SAC will weigh·the following criteria in evahJ;.-.. · _ ating proposals.. f:55 AM Vehicle iml}lobilized .. repeat unr.egistered v-iolations. PARKING VIOLATION: 1. Will the group use the space to improve the intellectual and social climate of the campus? 2. Are there 21 students who are committed to living in the house? Proposals should be submitted before March 15, 1997. The Student Affairs Council will be conducting a review process for housing renewal for Sigma Delta Tau, Kappa Alpha, and Bronner · House. Those who would like to share their impressions ofany of the . houses should submit comments by February 17, 1997, in writing to: ·, ·Prof. Hugll Jenkins, SAC Chair English Department Humanities Building Construction Update Latest N,ews! Self-Serve Copy Machines now available in North Colonnade's All-Night Study. Use your Library Debit Card, coins or bills. Open 24 hours. ' Alternate Study Areas • Upperclass Dining Hall, 9 PM to 2 AM, Sunday-Thursday. • West Dining Hall, 9 PM to 2 AM, Sunday-Thursday • North Colonnade (the former psychology building), all-night study. • Social Sciences, first floor, all-night study. . • The third-floor study area of the N ott Memorial remains open from noon to 1 0 PM Sunday through Thursday, and noon to 5 PM Friday 2:10AM 9:30AM use. 1:25PM ll :45 PM ...___ Webster · Nott I Seward 853 Nott Street ·Davidson Rayrnond I Potter 'TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1997: 2:16AM · Raymond 2:30AM 5:51AM l0:20PM. Ph()ne damaged. Raymond Raymond West College W'EDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1997~ 3:17AM West College Vehicle tered 7:37PM Library THURSDAY,FEERUARYlJ, 1997: I :45 AM Rink area ~---------a.:_n __ d_S_a_tu_r_da-=y'-.--~-------f 4:13PM North Terrace Lane WANT TO BE A MEMBER OF SAFE SPACE APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE INFO BOOTH ~ Please return them by Friday WELLS HOUSE: HEALTH ISSUES MONTH CONTINUES Feb. 20 at 7 PM AIDS AND RAPE Two for one: Campos AIDS experts talk about the his- FRI])AY, FEBRUARY 14,1997: I 0:50AM Reamer Center 2:03PM Reamer Center 7:33PM Fox House I 0:09PM Rink stolen SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1997: I :30 AM Old Chapel 6:54AM West College 4:56PM Nortl1 Terrace Lane SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 16,1991:. 12:05 PM Old Chapel 6:25PM Potter tory, developments, and effects of AIDS. SAFE SPACE 8:35 PM presentation of Awareness and sex crimes Alumni Gym Vehicle immobilized .. repeat unregistered violations. PARKING VIOLATION: Investigate vehicle for im proper license plates. SAFETY HAZARJ): Investi .gate, possible unauthorized V AN'DALISM: Forced entry into storage room. PARKING VIOLATION: Investigated vehicle which ~pp~~~ to have h~en involved in a property damage auto accident. · LIFE SAFETY VIOLA .. TlON: Smoke DetectQr vandalized. · SECURITY HAZARD: Window screen pushed in. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Identifed as guest of student. VANDALISM: Courtesy PARKING VIOLATION: immobilized- rep.eat unregis- violations. SAFETY HAZARD: Used syringe found by_ staff. EMERGENCY PHONE: Michievous activation. EMERGENCY PHONE: Michievous activation. FIRE: Grill fire caused by excessive grease. THEFT: Student reports unattended bookbag stolen. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Investigate odor of marijuana. THEFT: Student reports unattended clothing item VANDALISM: Property damage discovered after scheduled event. VANDALISM: Receiver of Courtsey Phone used to break window. · E-MERGENCY PHONE: Mischievous activation. THEFT: Student reports theft of unattended photos I recov eted. RECOVERED PROP ERTY: Property recovered apparently taken from New York City. THEFT: Studentreports theft off license plates from vehicle. • H~ pled trun that until bim cl'uc wmc J that ' :{ ! edg! ' I unti , ·' the1 'I, ' l wer fror the bee1 ni.ar L mm not By· mat mal Anc intc not we1 the Ian Ch1 his cor c ~ of roc the thi~ his lie' Sh€ ter siv de: ha: in~ ta1 an by ITI! by pc la• be gc re Stl It ot ti< ar je J h: tc sl ir ti s h 0 tl e c v d f \ t ( ( t

\ .l Camrms Ne\VS . · · · 'illl1r Qlomoroi~nsis • Februat·y 2Q, 1997. • Page 3 . - . . Hazing continued from page 1 . Engin·eer's Week Tribute to Creativity pledges were •ordered into car Stevens believes that 98% of trunks, three at a time, and told the time, alcohol is a factor in by ProfessorFrank Wicl{$ that they WOl.tld not be released hazing related incidents. She also M ecltanir;:al Engineering until drinking a dangerous com- believes that peer pressure and the bination of alcohol which in- pressuretoremainsecretiveabout This Wtlek is National eluded bottle;S of whisky and such dangerous hazing activities Engineer's Week, which connects wine.,The r<lmuma,tetold Stevens further contdbutesto its perpetu- well with the \Some Comments that the pledges had no knowl- ation in many Greek organiza- on Creativity\ Founders Day ad- edge of what was in store for them tions on college campuses dress by Dr. Catharine Stimpson. until they were actually shown to throughot\t the com1try. · Dr. Stimpson is Director of the thetmnks ofthe ~;:ars. Their fears According to Stevens, her son's Fellows Division of the John D. were allayed with a.ssur:13-nces .set:iseless death gave her, \there- · and Catherine T · MacArthur from the fratern·ity brothers that . sponsibility to make youa!l aware FoundatioN~ where she oversees a the task w.as a. tradition that had. and to help you. tl1ink about the progran1. that' provides grants to been successfttlly co1npleted bY dangers of hazing.\ She realizes help allow promising individuais tnanypl~q~e :~; l~ss.~s:be±~r~ t11e1:U: . - that many students see hazing as . to pursue creative interests. Unfort:un.'at~ly,~ Ch\tck''aild · a rite of passage m1d irs 'a way of · After openil 1 g remarks by Stimpson was introduced by En- glish Professor Brenda Wineapple, a notable researcher and biographer. Several faculty members. have been benefactors of MacArthur grants, including Electrical Engi- neering Professor John Spinelli, who. notes the grant was espe- cially valu:able to hirn in pursu- ing his research in computer net- work protocol. Professor Spinelli's research is r.elated t<l the rapidly evolving and expanding computer systems that are n()w manifested in the Internet a11d the World Wide Web and are qnrsing an even greater pro! i femtion ofdialogue, information, ideas. and cttltural revolution than that which re- sulted from the invention of the movable type printing press by Johann Gutenberg in 1450. This global network is there- sult of discoveries in the nature of electricity by scientists and the application of this knowledge by inventors and engineers. The telegraph in the 1830s was the seminal invention in electric communications. It was demon- strated in Al,bany by ;Joseph Henry, who had been recognized by Union College with an honor- ary degree and would be known as the greatest American scientist of his era and the founding Sec- retary of the Smithsonian Insti- tute. many ofhis pledge brothers were strengthenit1g the ties of brother- President Roger Hull, in which he not representativeofthis'success·. and sisterhood in a pledge class. noted that a prerequisite for ere~ By the time they were dragged to However, she argues that.\ surely ativity was tile stHdy of the tried, mattresses it1 t11efi'a~emityl1ottse, we can create the same sense of ;. the settled,. and the tnte, Dr. m~ywcre~~~~ooru~m. ~~d~u~~~h~ili~me ~J~~~-J~~-----~----------~------------~ Anditwasnotuntiltll:uchiater positiveandconstructive.\ · ·oseph Henry's 1838 Telegraph Relay: into the n.ightthat someone finally She also addressed the issue of noticed that smne oftbe_plectges traditionbystatingthat, \she had • A Modest Looking Device That' Would Change the World were completely m~responsive. In. done her homework,\ by re- the ensuing confhsion, ambu~ searching many Greek organiza- lances final'ly ;:trrived to find tions and found that hazing was Chuck dead on arrival and two of not involved in any part of their his pledge mates in deep alcoholic early histories. comas. Her talk then focused on the Stevens hGdnever before heard specific issue ofha~ing at Unipn. of hazing_ And when her son's She reiterated her message that, roommate totd her ~hat this was 11 hazing has no place at Union or the first time that anything like any other institution of higher this had e::ver:happened in the long education. It defeats both the pur- history oftlie fraternity, she be- pose of brother- and sisterhood lieved hirn. 'It was not until after and also the premise on which she began reading. the many let\ yo1:1 were founded.\ She also ters that poured in; dueto exten- stated iliat hazing activities are s·ive media coverage of her son's consistent with neither Greek ide- death; that she learned of other als nor New York's anti-hazing hazing Felated accidents - includ- laws. Stevens urged members of ingfatalities. Greek life to speak out if they. She andher family decided to witnesshazingW;ithi~theirprga­ take a stalld against such useless nizatiori bec.ause, \silence ·win\ and potential1y harmful activities only perpetuate suc.h behavior by getting involved in anti-haz- and severe consequences may ing legislation. The extensive lob- arise that will weaken the Greek bying by Stevens and other sup- system.\ by Professor Frap.k Wicks Meclzanical Engineering . . ' Joseph Henry, who was ratsed · · in poverty and was self-educated, was subse- quently_ mentored by other un- . likely inno- vators such as artist Samuel Morse (in the com mer'\ cialization of the tele~ graph), teacher of the·., d:e~f Alexand-er Graham Bell (in the inven- tion ·of the telephone), and black- smith Thomas Davenport (in building the first electric motor). His work ultimately provided the scientific basis tot an future electromagnet-based communi- catioBs.,inventions py ic.ons S\tch as Ed;ison, .Tesl_a •. Ntar:coni_, an9 deForest, and modern software pioneers I ike Bill Gates, who have connected these compo- nents ai1d systems into a network that crosses all national and cul- tural boundaries. Identifying such pioneering giants provides a basis for case studies that getierally show that wh-ile these indi- viduals had a greater vision than their contemporar- ies, they failed to recognize that the reality would ulti- mately exceed their own anticipa- tions. How such progress can ex- ceed the inventor's tondest dreams is a tribute to the results that can be achieved oy more ordinary people working with a passion. alone or in groups, to do the extraordinary things that can go far beyond any expert's vi- ston. porters succeeded in having the Stevens also thanked Tri-Delta law passed in both houses before for hwiting her to speak at Union being veto.ed by the New York and stated that despite her initial govemorwho believed that such tragic encounter with Greek or- regulatioll sllould be left up to the ganizations, she has also learned student organizations of a schooL oftheir dedicated involvement in It was not m1til the death of an- both campus and community ac- other college stud~nt that legisla- tivities. She hopes that the elimi~ tion was once again introduced nation of hazing wm remove the I andrnadeb1to lawwithoutJheo,b- \blemish from anotherwiseposi- jection ofthe governor. tive Greek system at Union.\ W e/{s continued from page I Building a Union Against Church Burning have been taken off the respira- tor? It was. suggested that he should ha.ve been, since his spot in the ICU was keeping other pa- tients from receiving proper care. Should the .patient have consulted his family before asking to be put on the res!)irator? Most agreed that he sho~ld have, since the op- eration limited his own powers of contmurtication. His family thus was forced to make the important decisions about his condition. A few of the issues brought up provoked debate. It was asked whether the patient should have been told that he wasgoingto die once his wife decided to have him disconr:tected. While many felt that they would want to kriow if they were going to die, others claini.ed thatthey wouldrather'not know. Tl'lere was noc<::msensus as to whether or not the patietl.t should have been placed on the respiratori11 the first place. Some said that he should have had the chance to live, and others be .. lieved that postp6njng the inevi- table wasn't worth the pain. Baker pointed out that cases like the one discussed are becoming more commonplace. \Most patients to- day don't die of acute diseases,\ he said. Rather, they tend to suf~ fer from chronic, drawn-out dis- eases, like emphysema. Baker-;s tal:k was the first of four to be held at Wells House, --~-----~--- South themselves. and to actually has the tools to affect the lives of by A11jali Balasingharn take part in the rebuilding pro- other people \ Staf!Writer cess. Although Alpha Phi Alpha ere- As part of the celebration of According to Ibrahim Adamu, ated the idea for the fund-raiser. African Heritage Month, Alpha President of Alpha Phi Afpha, the Adamu acknowledges that Phi Alpha hosted a fund-raising buming ofSouthem churches has \we've had a great amount of dinner on Tuesday, February 18. become a serious and widespread support from a long list of groups. . The dinner was held in Old probletn. ''Over the past year, Thishasbeenagoodopportunity Chapel at6 PM, and funds raised several [such] incidents have to get together [with) all the will go towards the reconstruction taken place in states such as groups on campus that ultimately ofbumedSouthern churches. North Carol ina, Alabama, and have the same goal of serving the Union's community service The (jinner met with great re- theme house. Justin Call, Wells' sponse. Between 80 to 100 stu- Community Involvement Direc- . dents attended, and several mem- tor, said of the idea behind the bers of the administration were series, \We wanted to have an · also present. Professor A.T. Miller interlectual discussion about · presented a talk abouttbe signifi- something that everyone's con;- canoe ofchurchesin Black South- · ~ em communities, and the Refresh- ing Springs Church gospel group sang. Students were asked to do- nate one of their meal punches towards the dinner. Tennessee,\ Adamusays. ''Rae- community.\ The other groups ist groups, such as the Ku Klux involved were the Theme House Klan, have taken it upon them- Consortium, the IFC, Sigma selves t<l destroy predominantly Gamma Rho, Africanna Studies. black churches, which happen to the Jewish Student Union, Chets, be the only unifying force in the Newmann Club, the Dean's these communities.\ Office, Delta Delta Delta, Dining Adamustressesthe irnportance Services, SPAM, Phi Gamma of Union's role in changing this Delta, Theta Delta Chi, the Gas- situation. «We [of Alpha Phi AI- pel Ensemble, Alpha Delta Phi, pha] feel that there has been a big and Kappa Sigma. eerned with. We al$o wanted tb do something pther than a com- munity service event. We're in themiddleofourrecruitmentpro- cess; and so that was our ulterior motive.\ Chris Blackburn ex- plained, \We're hoping to gener- ate interest [in Wells].'' On the 27, Wells will host an area holistic practitioner. ''We've found that there's a lot of interest in holis-m on campus,\ said Emily Stnith. The money raised will be do- . nated to the National Council of Churches, which will subse- quently distribute the money to various Southern c·hurches. A group ofUni0n students will soon be organized to go down to the I L---..- ..... - outcry at Union Collegeabout di- Adamu sees the fund-rr.iser as versity,\ he says. '~This serves as not just a dinner, but as \an op- an opportunity to show that portunity for us to broaden our Union students have the paten- horizons. It's something that will ti•al to come together to achieve Indirectly have an impact on our o.ne common objective. It proves lives.\ Adamu extends his thanks thateven though o'ur college may Steve, Callie, and Md at Dining seem very homogetieous, [it] sUll Services for their help. -- ...,....., ____ ~------ ...... ____ . -· -~------ ---,-- .. _, ______ ..... J.

Page 4 .. • F~b)·uar•y 2Q,' i 997 • :00£1c QJon~ot:Oicnsis . · · · Campus News Tuition Increase In Step With Business Expenses Kara Christian Staff Writer The College Boarq of Trust- ees has approved the budget for 1997-1998. The $74.1 million budget is 5.1 percent higher than this year and will require a 4.2 percent tuition increase. This in- crease is approximately one per- cent over inflation. The total cost of room, board and tuition for next year will be $28,465. D a n families. As recognized by the Admissions Office, in the past decade, expenditures for books and periodicals in our library have increased by almost 130 percent. This is an increase far · greater than inflation. Overall, costs for the College have in- creased more rapidly than gen- eral prices every year since 1981. In most years the increase has been more than two percent- age points higher than inflation. Union's goal is to keep tuition Increases only one Lunquist in Admis- sions ex- In general, Union's percent higher than inflation. In past years, tu- ition Ill- creases for schools plains.t~at increases are on the the tuttiOn increase is low en·d in relation to \a neces- sary evil.\ its comparison schools. While ad- ministra- t i 0 11 ---------------like Union wishes tuition could remain flat, Lunquist claims that the increase reflects \the cost of doing busi- ness.\ President Hull strives to keep costs down while keeping quality high. People often as!~. why tuition seems to go up more than infla- tion each year To answer this question, one must first under- stand the difference between the consumer price index and the higher edlicativn price index. The consumer price index mea- sures the cost of goods and ser- vices purchased by wage-earn- ing families each year The goods and services required to successfully run an institution of higher learning are quite differ- ent than those purchased by h a v e ranged from 3 to 6 percent. Lunquist claims that \Union is right in the middle ofthe pack.\ In general, Union's increases are on the low end in relation to its comparison schools. While tuition has increased, the college has also made a com- mitment to meet the financial needs of all accepted students. Next year, the college will raise its financial aid budget to nearly $15 5 million This is a 7 3 per- cent increase over last year. While the 4.2 percent tuition increase may be discouraging to students and parents, adm inis- tration believes it is necessary in order to maintain the quality of the education and facilities offered here at Union. AIDS Pa,nel continues from page 1 ing to watch your loved ones deal with it,\ said Lori. Her brother suffered from a loss of his men- tal faculties before his death, so \he sort of died before he died, for me,\ Lori explained. Even though Lori herself was not infected with the virus; she was stitl one of its victims. \My experience has been one of ex- treme sadness and disbellef,\ she said. <'I'll never be tne same,\ Like George, Lori stressed that AIDS touches everyone. \lt will affect each and every.one of us at some point in our lives.'' Anne-Marie, the final speaker; offered a perspective on AIDS from a mother's point of view. In 19&9, she found out that she had contracted the disease from het husband, who died three weeks after this discove;y. Fortunately, neither her young son nor her in- fant daughter were infected with the virus. Living in an isolated rural area, Anne-Mariedescribed her feelings of being alone in dealing with AIDS. \I was already planning my fu- neral,\ she said. \I didn 'tsee past . tomorrow.\ Shefound hope when she joined a support group of mothers with AIDS, although she and her children still suffered immeasurably. ~Anne-Marie had toseetourdit:. ferent doctors on a regular basis, and her long hospital stays made the situation difficult for her chil- dren. \My illness has had a big effect on my kids--a lot bigger than I thought i.t would:\ she said. ''[They' reJ very much affected by this disease, even though they're not infected.\She spent her sort's birthday in the hospital, and said of her son, \He also couldn't see past tomorrow, and even today he has a bard time dohig it.\ Anne~ Marie described the pteparatiGns she has had to make, such as drawing Up a will and ensuring that her sister would receive Ct\~· tody of her children. She rein- forced the message that peop k with AIDS \come in all colors .. I know people with top jobs who have it and people with no jobs who have it,\ As well as explaining the emo- tional consequencesofAIDS, all three of the panelists also de- scribed its physical effects. George, whose T -cell count gradually dropped from 15,000 to 2,000, suffered from asthma as a result .of AIDS. Lori's brother's partner went blind and weighed 106 pounds before his death at the age of23. Anne-Marie developed AIDS-relatedcervical cancer, and was forced to undergo several in- stallments of radiati o n.treatment. Several students in the aucli- ence had questions for the gtiest speakers. When asked how sbe ·dealt with the knowledge that she had contracted AIDS from her husband, Anne-Marie adtnitted, \At first I wanted him to get well' so I couldkillhim my:self..It took me a long time to get <rver it; but f learned that I'm I iving with AIDS, not dying with .IC' When asked about the miscon- ceptions that people with AIDS rnust face, Anne-Marie:responded that people often believe that those who carry the diseas.e are easily detected. ''People think that you have to look like you. 're on yom·deathbed tohaveAIDS.\ Amy Mehta of Peer Facilitators oversawtheevening'sdiscussion With the help of Scltenectady Fainily Health Resourc't!s and the Comell Cooperative Extension, Mehta was able to c()ntact pro- spective panel-ists and organize the panel. She stressed the impor- tance of having a discttssion at Union about AIDS. \I know that if s a seriotis prob- lem here on campus. A lot of us here feel that[since] we go tothis upper\class institution., it won't touch us or affect us ., Overall, Mehta wa5 pleased with the reception that the event received. «I wish that th~re had been a bigger turnout, but I'm glad that a number ofpeople did show up and listen,\ slle said. .. It'll definitely prompt me to do more things like this in the fu- ture.\ COME INTO MOJO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGSI lcllanactldy 1 041 State Slraat 882·6778 f50% 0FFI ___ 33i-- : ~~~ 1Sii.Oo- : P~OCESSING : REPRINTS I 811 0 I CLUB I_ Rec:e.•ve so-\ off tb_ e. regulu I I Limit l lx 10 eblargemeats. II Receive ss_.oo oft\ •. beD Limit 20 staodard size 1 p .. ;;c of proceaamaud I I From your 3Smm eolor I you pun:baae a clu•· I · fi reprints. From your 3Smm 1 p• wting color prmt lm. ·I 1 _. ~~eaative. I mcmbe. nhi.p! Mut_·pre.•eDt I color negative. 1 l.,.,,. , •••• SIAiftdud •• pnnu one 1 I I < ..... \\' cropptn, .... , be •\••t.blc .. an I coupoa to receive ss .oo off. 1 NO« \•l..t with adler ~ ar catn ld Nac va8ed witll odacr coupoftl \' ofl'cn lddt1ennal tWJC NG« valid wa Gdler I I .,_....... Club 1111 ma.n n:rcc 1 vc 1 Club nrcmben f11Ut~l' I Mit coupon pncl' 1 c~• eti' ntra ICI ~- Clult 1·· LW OM per prtiOft. Not vaiid •llll I mcmbtn feC«tvt am• c...- prie« 011tcr c...-. or oft'cn 1 •'\'..-~'· I . . I I · I 11070,.HOID,.. I liO'TO,.HOTO. I IJb'TOI'HOTCI .I !Jb\'IrHOicl I ~--~-~-----~---~-~--~----------~~-------· ·--· --~------ ----------------- -----·------------'

\ 5:50- Called to Order- Giffordabsent W ~lis House and Big Brothers/Big Sisters Team Up for Valentine's Day 5:55 ~Officer Reports . Cohen- Tickets to Winter Affair on sale 2/19; Dutch Pipers Match 1, maybe a Club UMarch 1 (In Place of Concert) Mankad- Sent out Pew Grant proposal- Amount of money. Forum gives negotiable -Two students and faculty member would head- Ahessisayspossibly $3,000 would be available; Trying to hook web . page up with Multicultural Events -Asking Admissions to help point page to applicants (lost students due to perception .of low cultural events) Pel/ish-Election 2/21 (l OAM-4PM)- Paper ballots ... Discussion of election rules necessary; Trustee meeting previous weekend- No rink decision - Hull stated he is not sure they would vote on it next June either .., Pellish gave studentopinions on both sides of the issue Cousins- tFC Discussed Union improvements Tolin- PanHel may sponsor Big Brothers/Big Sisters ... Possible fundi. raiser needed - by Aileen Quigley Assistant NewsEditor On Valentine's Day from 5:00 to7:00 p.m., Old Chapel was packed with the members of Wells Houst:>'s Zoller One-on- One program ar1d Big Brothers/ Big Sisters. The two groups teamed up to put together an evening of events for the children involved in both organizations. In addition to the children and their mentors, parents and siblings were welcomed as well. Senior Emily Smith states that, \ ... even though it required a lot of coordi- llation and planning between the Zollerprogram and Big Brothers /Big Sisters, our goal was to do something special for the kids.\ Upon arrival, the children were each given a raffle ticket, which made them eligible to win a door prize later on. Mike Ferguson played music from the second- floor balcony while the crowd en-· . joyed refreshments and made Valentines. After the pizza and soda were finished, the dance .floor began to fill up. A \train\ of guests of all ages snaked its way around the room, and before long everyone lined upto do the \Macarena.\ Cupid Liam Joint made a well-received appearance and passed out conversation hearts with help from his newfound sidekick .Jeremy. Once everybody was warmed. up, the dance contest kicked off and three gift certificates were awarded as prizes. One of the dance contest's win- ners demonstrated her steps to several friends and Zoller One- on~One program coordinator Jill H irschenfang. Juniors Kirsten Kohn and Amy Rilling linked anns for an impromptct limbo bar, and soon had a crowd of children around them waiting to show off \how low they could go.\. Even some of the more reluctant danc- ers like Katie Otfs Zoller buddy Danielle had joined a circle of friends before too long, forgetting her earlier hesitation. By tbe time the night drew to a close, the originally-small social circles had expanded, and groups of mentors, \Iittles and family members had mixed in new com- binations. One parent, whose 9 year-old son had joined a group of seven other boys,. commented that, \they all had a great time dancing and being with their friends, and even made new ones.\ Wells House resident Eric Depew felt really positive about the impact that events like this can have on a child, and the two or- ganizations working together for the benefit of these children is very commendable. Reluctantly, coats were put back on and handmade Valen- tines stuffed into small pockets to bring home. Justin Callsummed up the evening best as he stated that \hopeful'ly this is just the first o'fmany similar events to follow.\ Ferguson -No meeting last week; Forum consultant group met 2/ 10- Everyone on Forum will be participating on the transition group; Ben Fox says Church fund-raiser will now have two. different funds - Students can buy a shingle tbr $5 to allow people who were shut out of dinner to help- Brantigan states too many people signed up for dinner (300 maximum now) and people cimnow give $3 from their Validine; Ben Fo'x discusses a fashion show - People have received a letter asking them to be in· show based on academics. athletics, and campus activity - Possibly Aprill I'-· Pathak and Mankad concerned about it interfering with Shakti's show- Fox vows it will not coincide with Shakti -Event benefits Make~A-Wish Foundation (Fox also says goodbye to Forum) Liberman - SAC meeting, Professor Baker spoke about students slacking in winter Precept during sorority rush week- PanHel agreed to look into a fix- Malaspina suggests mandatory class attendance to participate in rush- Tolin suggests there is a way to ease things i11 rush without upsetting nationals - Pellislt adds students are adults and make our own decisions; and prof. need to communicate con- cerns to students Consideration Is the Key To Coping With Construction A.bessi- Biology Club asks for money for spring picnic and whale watching event- Motion (Abessi): $940.25 to Biology Club (Unani- mous); APhiA fund-raiser- Abessi feels Forum should donate $150 -Morris concerned that there were questions over the size of the TriDelt donation couple weeks back - Abessi adds that Forum froniecl money for TriDelt speaker; upsetting Forum (was not part of origi- nal motion) - Cunanan wants Finance Committee to put cap on donations, but will let this motion go through (preaches consisi.en-.;y) - Motion (Abessi): $I 50 for APhiA fund-raiser (Amendment (Morris): Change $150 to $100- Amendment Accepted)- Discus- sion begins as Pellish wonders ifForum should be giving donations at all- Drossman thinks Forum should not give money to non-Stu- dent Activity-supported groups- Drown thinks this would be hypo- • critical not to pass - Pellish says Drown's comment pointed in wrung direction as dinner is being paid for by Validines (Motion Tabled) LeDuc- Ski Trip plans almost set- Seniors may receive info in mail Markowski -Ski Trip (Freshmen) March 8 at Stratton with Brown bus for $3 8 per student Proctor- Still discussing Junior Hudson River cruise Drown - Montreal trip being planned for Sophomores 6:43 -Old Bus.iness Morris- Hull requests student committee on rink with only Fresh- men and Sophomores -Forum wants Juniors placed on committee as well (2 Freshmen/2 Sophomores/2 Jmliors/2 Hockey Players/2 Faculty/Alford or Hull)- Cunanan directs class presidents to de- cide who to put on committee 6:50- New Business Pellish continues Trustee meeting discussion -Olin Building doing well, Library due Fall '98 -Trustees figuring out ways to get engi- nee ring and liberal arts majors to join together- Possible term abmad to a third-world country where Jib. arts majors learn engineering and vice-versa- Union hit new high of matriculating students .in top 20%ofHS class- Adds that Founder's Day should have been better attended 6:59-Forum Goals Contributed by Student Affairs Council We are all aware thatconstruc- tion is about to begin on two p1cojects, the expansion of Schaffer Library and new Olin science and engineering building, which will greatly improve our facilities. We also know that these improvements will come at the cost of some daily inconve- nience to virtually all of us for a period of close to two years. For faculty and staff, the main prob- lems will be noise, more problems parking, and some short-term re- locations. For students, there is, in addi- tion, a significant loss of highly valued group and individual study $200-$500 Weekly Mailing phone cards. No experi- ence necessary. For more information, send a self-ad- dressed, stamped en- velope to: Global Communication . P. 0. Box 5679 Hollywood, FL 33083 space. Those ofus on the Student Af- fairs Council (SAC) are well aware of, and applaud, the efTorts now being made to assure that the negative impact of these con- stwction projects, especially on students, can be minimized. For example, West College dining hall will be open for late-night study, and nev.dy remodeled study space in the former Psy- chology building will be open 24 hours a day. And we will cer- tainly continue to seek changes in facilities hours and services to ease the transition. But we also believe that it is our collective behavior which can most helpameliorate the negative effects of the construction. Civil behavior towards one another and a willingness to let others do their work in peace (e.g., by maintain- ing some quiet hours in dormito- ries to allow study) will do more toprevent disruption of our intel- lectual and social 1 i fe than uny number of additional plans or temporary facilities. We urge all members of the ca111pus community to avoid dis- ruptive behavior in the areas where we live our common lives-and to make it clear that they will not tolerate such behav- im from a few others in their midst as well lfwe use this period oftimeto develop higher levels of civility ancl tolerance, we will find our- selves not only with better build- ings but with a better campus after the construction is over compact disc·s.lin slum.\. cas.wttes. ''iiWI lp'.t 1 l \sinKies. {ij rope.' pi uyswt ion. .saturn .. w ga, .me.\ y,ame5& .\)\.\! t•ms mcll'ies & shaolinlkung /11 mo\'ies u/so dnyllp~\. r:\ .!.ingh·s & tlny.mrh•., all ur I he be.,·t price.'.' . 1 Morris wants a fiscal policy (money guidelines); Drossman says study space needs to be addressed- Nott should open earlier as li- brary noise is too tough to weather during morning (8AM) - Markowski suggests Nott should open later; Pellish believes aca- · demic understanding needs to be addressed (students need to under- · stand transcripts, cards, etc.); Brantigan· wants a reading period be-. . fore finals; Morris thinks Forum needs to be betterinfonned of club events; Tolin wants a suggestion box for Forum (Forum questions should be directed tox5998, MWF 1-3PM) Houses/ Apartments1997 -1998 -3 to 8 Bedrooms -Remodeled - All appliances -Carpet 7:13 --Pathak moves to adjourn -Parking Call370-5498

· OP/ED . . . ·. . :illlp,~ illonu1roiJ?n~is · Fehru.ary 20, 1997 · Page 6 . EDITORIAL Sex, V-Day, and the Union Blue.s Did you get roses on Valentine's Day, or were you among the many that were left broken hearted and dateless. I love you, my world is lost without out you, be my valentine, you're my sweet- . heart, my cutie, hot stutT, number one love muffin, and my true . C()mpanion were just some ofthe traditional ci iches that invaded the \Reamer\ last Friday. As some walked by with a dozen long stem roses, others only got the chance to stop and smell them. We are not wallowing in our own selfpity, but we are now just more aware of the fact that · there are no perfect men or women on this campus. Our parents and grandparents have wonderful stories about meet.- : ing the love oftheir lives in coUege. Where is all the love? We may not be in search of a marriage companion just yet, but we would like to know that somebody out there cares. They told us we would meet him or her at the right .time, but freshman year quickly turns to senior year, and we are still left without a Valen- tine. Besides Cupid's heyday, the sporadic date functions that occur throughout the year barely promote a date-like atmosphere, and students tend to take a friend instead. The Concordiensis was wondering what events had to take place for a gathering to be considered a date. What we carne up with was dinner when one person asks another, a movie (rental or theater), and well, sex could be considered a date too. The third tends to be the most popular date at Union, so we investigated how many \dates\ couples should have betbre they engage in sex. The range in the office went trom six months to wllen the restraining order was repealed. It is fun to joke about se:x and dating, but in actuality, Union lacks the dating spirit. There te11ds to be more \hooking up,\ and this means that most relation- snips at Union are built Qn sex rather than friendship. Is this the C()Jil\ect way to date in a society plagued with sexually transmitted diseases? Are Union stl}d~nts acting responsibly about sex, or are they waiting to hear more about the dangers of AIDS and the im- portance of condoms tram guest speakers. Take a chance, do something different (no, we don't mean sexu- ally). Ask a friend out tor a real date. Do something romantic tor him or her while you are on the date. Make someone feel special by giving a letter or a flower rather than getting that person drunk at a party and trying to take him or her home. There must be some hope that Union students can date normally. All one needs to do is take the initiative. The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Adrian Mac Lean, Anthony C. LaVecchia, EDITORS-IN-CHIEF David Pinkowitz Diana Sedita FXB'l/1'/VF Fl>f1Wl,\' C()nor McKenzie MANAUIN<i Jmti'OR Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS h'l>IHJR Aileen Quigley AS.'·)JSTANT NI:'W.<.,' HJ)J1'(JR Larry Paska AJ?J:'·i& ENTERTAINMENT EJ)!TOR J()11athan Gasthalter Frank Rossi .~'PORTS EDITORS Suzanne Dougherty (iUJHAI. NFWS HI>I7VR Tatiana Cogevina Andy Fradkin l '( JMI'l17W~ MANAGJi:N.S Ja.·ed Richman I:'JJNORIAI. CARTOONIST Scott Scullion 1-AClll.TY AJJVISOR Amy DiBattista Jennifer Pelose C '0/'Y J:'J)Jlr Laurie Kirschner PH01U HDI7VR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Rick Leder·er, Michelle Brick, Maria Guinle, Laurel Ruma ,c;,TAFF: Josh Adams, Anjali Balasingham, Kelen Barr, Jamie Chandler, Kara Christian, Shana Dangelo, Whitney Davis, Brandon Declet, Cabriella Dory, Jeff Druzba, Jason Everett, Peter Farnum, Erinn Gregg, Nalini Gupta, Caroline Hepner, Erika Mancini, Bhavani M-eduri, Jody Mousseau, Rich Nespola, Michelle Neier, Susan Perry, Frank Rossi, Matt San<llcr, Akin Sawyyer, Aaron Sicotte, lVU1Cncue1 Tham, Rawson Thurber, Michelle Vanderloon • • zntons WE DO NOT PA~TICIPATf? IN l-V\7-lNG: We Need t.o Define Hazing in Order to Prevent It by Tony LaVecchia .Editor-in-Chief I approached the task of writ- ing this week's column with a bit of caution and rei uctance. When looking at the anti-hazing cam- paign currently taking place on campus, I'm not completely sure what.to say. I will try my best to portray both sides of the issue as I see them, and l will allow you, my educated reader, to make your own decision. On one level, I am glad to see that hazing is finally getting the attention it deserves. Clearly, this is a topic which deserves our at- tention as a community, and tl1e campaign has in fact brought the issue into the open. I firmly be- lieve that hazing is something which is wrong, misguided, and which shotJid not continue on this campus. Of course, some clarification is necessary here. I've read the sch0ol' s definition of \hazing and it's n rather broad, sweeping one. Is any event at which alco- hol is present hazing') Is making people sing songs together haz- ing') I don't know. What I know is that I am op- posed to any activity which forces people to do things invoiLintarily. Furthennore, I think it is wrong for any gr()up to commit vi()lent or dangerous acts in .the names of unity andtogetbemess. What rm getting at is that I think we need to come together as a campus, both Greef<s-and Independents, to forma clear idea ofwhat sort of activitiesconstitute hazing. Once we have done this, i~.will be easier for us to move forward with our q uestto bring this prob- lem under control. This discus- sion inevitably leads me to my second, more skeptical point about the .anti-hazing program. Until weclevelop a more specific definition of hazing, we are in danger of engaging in hypocrisy. I would sr;::riously question if all ofthe people who sponsored and participated i.n the program are prepared to confonn to a version of pledging that will completely comply witl1 the school's rules regarding pledging. Perhaps even I am indirectly participating in this hypocrisy My challenge is this: can we, as a school, come together and agree in absolute terms what sort of activities and behaviors we find to be unacceptable? Clearly, we do not wa11t to eliminate all aspects ofpledging. Once we have reached aconsen- sus as to what things we need to eliminate we can then prepare to comply with this new definition. I suppose I am hopeful that in the interirn we will allow our own in- dividual values and common sense to guide us away from par- ticipatirtg in activities that most would agree are universally wrong. Furthennore, I truly hope that all those who signed the agree- ment not to haze will liv.e up to their commitment, at least in the sense that I have previously dis- cussed. On them ore skeptical side, al- though l was pleased to see the issue raised, I have to question the motives of those organizing and participating-in this campaign. Is this si1nply a well-fashioned at- temptfororganizations to redeem themselves or to garner favor from the administration? If this is the case, I fear we will be los- ing a great opporturlity to come together and a genuine chance to win another battle in our cam- paign against hazing. Therefore I will leave my challenge and my opinion open, in the belief that our motives are good and our pros- pects to achieve something here are hopeful. Letters Policy & Disclailller Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the. Monday before publication. Letters must he less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters mu-st be signed and saved on a high density disk although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority .of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns, or cartoons reflect t11e opinions of the writers or artists, m1d not necessarily the · opinions ofthe Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is printed by World Media, 1104 Central Avenue, Albany, NY, 12205. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP). Na.tional Student News Service, & King Syndicates. - ph an lo, it, tin ke ml ag \p th« wl pl: te< ba ca an is nc tel ba b~ te1 nc gc m wl it, dr 0' tir w bt Stl , j c in lo Ir ir tr i~ n tl E it \ \ ·~ t I

Page 1 · Februat·y 20, 1997 • 'ffilp.~ <fltlllttlroicnsis · · I . . · ·• .OP/l,I:D ·. . ' '• ' . Opinions Time-Out: Back t~ the Drawing Board! I'm not a good basketball player.,. 11nd I know it, I accept it, aud (·Call live with it1 But still, I love this game, and I like to play it, or atleastbe a partofit(some- times as a ref, or a time or score keeper? .. _ . After almost four months .at Union, I finally man- aged to get back on the court, \playing\ in i11tramurals. Why the qaotation marks? Because when 1'111 onthe field, \my\ team plays with four met'! only .... My teammates would never pass the ball to tbe freaking international! I've .!\ad enough ef this, and I can't take it anymore..... Being an internatienalstudentat Union is like having. the pe~tp:eople ig- nore you; avoid you, h·ave no in- terest in you, or your cultural backgr()und .... It's worse than being a111inotity member; the in- ternational student is refused a normal life! And the treatment 1 got frorn my basketball team- mates is: indeed representative of what'.sgoing on aroundhere~·and it's als() been the last bitterness drop I could take, so now I'm overflowing.... Let's have a time-ottt and take a look at what we have here, analyze what's been going wrong, and set a new strategy for the remaining mo- ni.ei1ts offhe gam~! The problems started even be- fore coming at Union: a long and costly proceS·s of getting the United States visa, due to an un- believably long delay in Union's issuing my documents that cost me one hundred dollars, a I ittle mote thail what my father makes a month. Then, an incredible mis- understanding about the tenns of the exchange program that brought about the textbook issue. This is going to cost me a few mote hundreds, and t;mplanned costs are hard to cover, as (my business major would tell yon .. But this might not be of general interest for the Union col'n:ITill- nity... . Next on the list; campus orientation: ''These guys, in the blue 1'-shirts, are your interna- tional buddies.\ None of them ever asked for my name, what l wanted to see on campus, whether on'lot I needed anything else than that useless campus tour they just got\ 1996 I ntemational Students Orientation\ on their resumes, and that was all! I haven't seen any of them since; if I did, they never bothered to say \Hi!\ They wouldn't even know I was an in- ternational, and if they did they could simply care less .... Oh, bLlt I do liv-e in a donn. spent for our being here, money How about my neighbors, you thatone could see only if one had say? MyRA simply introduced access to (and an interest in) me to the other internationals on Union's accounting books .... the floor. and that was it! Most A majority of the American stu- ofthe American students on my dents I happen to kr1ow at Union floor excel in the art of pretend- would never talk to me unless ing I'm invisible when we meet they could take advantage of me, in the l!allways, or in the TV or of something I have, and is of lounge, and I'm not sure they've interest for them~ and I gLtess I al.l taken \Beginning Acting\yet. should be proud ofhaving such So, what else can l ask of them? wonderful temporary friends! If Ah,J almost forgot they don't re- l got no opportun.ities to otTer, ally ignore me altogether: They \you may sit over there, with the figured~ since I'm a smoker, they others,\ or \excuse me, 1 gotta 'could infringe upo11 my right to go!\ To conclude, the interna- privacy, and they have {demo- tiona] student at Union is either cratically) proposed I was not to an account number, a cow to smoke in my mom ever again! milk. or most otten than not a As soon as I· open my mouth in ghostto the great satisfaction of class, .ai!d my accent betrays me, some philosophers, an abstract, l sense the development of an incorporeal, yet qttantifiable en~ extremely interesting attitude t,ity .... But don't get me wrong, among my fellow students: \Who because I also know nice people the hell is this guy, anyway? How at Union who try t()makemy life can he .ask anythi11g like that? here easier and somewhat pleas- Gimme a break, the guy's defi- ant. nitely stupid!\ And I simply ask I wrote aH these, and many oth- those \weird\ questions because ers that the public eye is not sup- from my culturally different per- posed to read, to my relatives and spective things don ,l always fit friends at home. And they were the mo<lel presented in the lee- stunned: c<Is this really what tures, Then, the class attitude America is all abmtt') Come back translates into the prof's behav- as soon as possible, 'cause you ior, and the whole point about the don'thave to take that any more!\ ---~----~-----~~--~-----\\---1 presented model's being way far Well, after being depre~sed by all thot1ght and redone about the way international students are accom- modated at Union. Maybe the in- ternational buddies program would be a good starting point. Get back to the drawing board and figure out a way of playing five: either you pass the ball to the in- ternational,ortake him out of the game! U need to provide internationals with more support in adjusting to the American cul- ture as a whole, and to the Union subculture in particular; also, with the appropriate means of continu- ing their habitual extracurricular acttv1t1es.. But, seriously ... I Let them know what's going on around the campus, 'cause they might not know whereto look for what they need! We all need to feel integrated, to be involved, to sense that we can rely on each~ other, etc. And if you don't think so, or you can't imagine yourself ina situation as such, go ask those who went on terms abroad: Even though Americans have a charis- matic appearance that facilitates everything for them, I bet those Union students have had similar experiences! The Concordiensis Needs a Change in Tone from perfect is absolutely lost! these for a longtime, I now see it Sometime ago, President Hull as a challenge, ami an extremely invited Fesidents of two floors in valuable experience. But it would my donn to a pizza dinner. The be even more va1ttable if I could four internationals present at the make yo'u guys see there is a prob- On the other hand, if you don't actually give a damn about this international students issue, ask for the Department of I nterna- tional Programs to be dissolved; you'd get rid of us internationals, and of the multi-cultural require- ments forGenEd altogether! That would decrease the cost of tuition at Union; you'd graduate one term earlier; you might be able to solve the trimester system di- lemma; maybe the housing and parking problems; and ultimately, Union would run out of money and not be able to build the off- campus rink .... As an editor of The Concor4iensis, I take great pride in my newspaper and thoroughly look:: forward to the distribution of each new issue. Lately, how- ever, I l1ave noticed the paper's ,normal pessimistic attitude about the C(]]]ege, the campus, the ad- ministration ... just about any- thing~ t() be downright nerve- wrachng. Granted, a newsp11per's responsibility is to inform the public of the happen- ings iTI :society, and creating con- troversy by slamming the admin- istratiomnakes for more exciting news coverage than reporting that the students in Professor Jones' English Lit class are really learn- ing a l()tabout Shakespeare. I wollld lil<e to make a plea for the editors to change the tone of this publication. Isn't there one good. thing to say about the school\~ Last week's issue, in particttlar, is an example of the superfluous griping and snubbing whic.h goes on weekly, particu- larly ill the editorial column. Last week's editorial, entitled \Founder's Da~: Really Wasted,'' concluded that students ·prefer to hit parties over sitting in the Memorial Chapel during the Founder's Day celebration. This is the paper's standard unjust fin- ger-pO'inting at the masses. No, I wa:sn'tatFounder's D~y, either, but ( chose not to go - l have that right, and don't need to be called someone who thumbs his nose at tradition for it Not only did I feel that Founder's Day wasn't well publicized, I simply didn't want to go. That doesn't mean I despise traditiq_n or hold a grudge against Union. · event were absolately ignored, lem that we might be able to rc- Every year, this paper tackles not only by their cdleagues and solve, together! the same issues and accomplishes neighbors, but by Mr. Hull as I cannot accept for the life of very little. Past editors have com- · well. .... Oh, I'm sm~ry, he did ask me that such attitudes are typical plained in editorials condemning · us where we were from! But for the United States. And I also sorority rush, hazing, President . that's not all; none of us know for sure it's not true, from Hull's lack of concern. for stu- I internationals are listed in the stu- my experiences as an intern and dents, and so on. Each year, these ·1 d~nt phone book, edit~d and ~is- asawork-siudy. !hen, there must issuesarise,yetfewsolutions are . tnbuted campus-w1de a few be something about Union the attempted or suggested; rather, weeks ago. Which means we students, the administration, the the editors condemn the student don't even exist, I suppose . . . architecture, or maybe the loca- body, prodahn their hatred forall except perhapsintennsofmoney tion! Something has to be re- Codru Vrabie people co~sidered admi~istrator~, :_c_e_rt_a-in_l_y_i-sn_'_t_p_e_r.f_e_ct-,-b-u-t _w_h_a_t --3-. )_W_a_n_t_m_o_r_e_s_o_c-ia_l_a-lt-em-a--_f_o_ll_o_w_y_o_u_. _______ _ and contmue y~mmenng th.elr school is? Let'sstartfocusingon tives on campus? Create them 8.) Believe that tradition at own personal visions of>a: utopian the positives negatives to- yourself. Union is dying? Just because it's school. Robert Cohen s weekly gether. In the foar years I have 4.) Dislike President's Hull traditiondoesn'tmake itgood, it op-edarticles.h.a~ebeen:ehduced beenatUnion,Ihaveseenmany administration? GetaPh.D.and · t k · t d d f to hateful cntJcJsms w1t out a . JUS ma es 11 san ar prac Jce. .b I , 1 . .c H. 1 c-. great cnanges. There ts greater run your own university. I hope the paper makes a strong reat 1 ot I! e. 1s ast 1eature, . , • . \W . D'd 1 M' S 1 . ?\ awareness of haz1ng 1ssues and 5.) Think Chef's is a waste of effort to examine both sides of an . mt, 1 ISS omet n~g · sexual assault; an increase in aca- space? Go to Geppetto 's. issue before printing an opinion ~~Jgh~havebeen morea?tlytJtled, demlc programs and Terms 6.) Don't like Union in gen- on it in forthcoming issues. ':\a 1 t;, Ar~ We .Read~ng An~- Abroad opportunities; the con- era!? Transter! Sincerely, thm~? WithoutJ~te?d!l1~t~dis- structionandrenovationofbuild- 7.) Think that all Union stu- credit another wnter s opmiOn, I . ings campus-wide. Does the dents are closed-rninded? Open feel that such columns, when ~ey noise ()utside the library bother your own mind, and others will becom~ s?apboxes fo~ repetitive you during classes? Instead of complammg, lose theu purpose condemning the school for its Larry Paska Arts Editor and therefo~e take up space. \unconcern for a student's right To the ed1tors; l would suggest t . t. d d 1 arn \ know that c-. • 1 . 1 b' (.. o s u y an e , 10cusmga Itt e It more tt s sur- t t' · ast'g · ofprogress . . . cons rue ton ts n . , pnsmg what a httle can do )ontlle d tt.. t once-inefficient li- h , b f' L , an ua our sc ool s. many ene Its. et s b. • b ·ng replaced by .a big- . .. ~... . C 1 rary 1s e1 face It, a. n educatiOn at tats o - . . practical one. Yes we I , . • 1 . 1 , ger, more. . , ege ts a pr.tvt ege, so· et s start 't et to enJ· 0 ,t it but future · l'k h W · · · won g J ' actmg · 1 e t at e cnt1ctze . rations of Union students I d d . . . . d gene Scle.necta yan ·ttscJtlzens,al1 \)I ther~by increasing this h f h \D 'd , WI . ' yet ow many .o t ese ot s school'sprominence. (as we so lovmgly call them) For those who continue to find would jump at the chance to be the need to rehas11 the same tic- educated here? The same people who write about campus-wide apathy are just as guilty of allow- ing themselves to be overcome by their need to find fault with ev- erything. Let's face it: nothing's perfect in this world. This scl1ool ing issues, here are a few simple solutions: 1.) Tired of the sorority rush system? Don't rush a sorority. 2.} Don't wantto put up with hazing? Quit pledging. E-MAIL ADDRESSES FOR SUBMISSIONS E-Mail Us at Concordy @gar.union.edu .. ·All E-mail submissions must be recieved by 5 PM the Monday before publication, and must be less than 500 words. Please see the Opinions policy on the opposite page for more details. \' -. . -

Page 8- ·January 20, 1997··. ffil~r ·illr1nruroiett~is · . . · . · ()P/ED . . 0 • • . ptnzon Hazing: Dead, Alive, or In Between? Robert Cohen Staff Writer Due to some bad layout, the end of my article last week was cut off. A few people have asked what was cut out~ so here it is: \- lly important things.\ I hope that helps a few of you out th_ere that were left hanging. (.lust like the layout guy.) Anyway, onto bet- ter and brighter things I hope. This week I will not only say something negative about the school, but a. positive things as well. Enjoy, First, I ~ould like to congratu- late Tri-Delta, and everyone in- volved, in putting on a very in- fonnative and much neededanti- hazing· week. There, that was positive. Besides a guest speaker, a basketball tourney, some litera- ture on hazing, there was an ac- tual ha?:ing death last week Not here mind you., but pretty.damn close at Clarkson. In my book, you cannot ask for bettertiming. Now, this is certainly not in- tended to be mocking or anything lil<ie that, ljustthink it brought the whole thing to a brand ·new level, a level that has not been seen on this campus, at least in the time I have been here. The newJevel we are at includes statements like, \Wow! Peopl'eactually die from hazing.\ So where do we go from llere. Both you and I knowthatthecol- lege policy on hazing is a joke, hopetully the r(!vised version yvill be better, butl highly doubtit.lt is obvious that the people who wrote it hadn't the least idea as to who can haze and. what itactually is. That aside, hazing is illegal in this state,justlike drinJ<ing under- age. However, it seems at this col- lege, when you get caught doing one of the aforementioned activi- ties ybu are given a si~p im the · wrist and when caught d()ing the other, well watch out there is l1eH, or worse, to pay. I charge thecol- lege, or more precisely the adlnin- istrators, to specify what we can and cannot do. On the hazing side of the issue this would be a god send and on the other side, well, people will still drink regardless of the man. What does that say about our beloved administration? To me, it screams, \We are not doing agoodjob.\ I mean hazing is always the administration's 'out' ifapledge or a rooki~ gets hurt or intoxi-· cated, regardless of the circum- stances surrounding the incident. Meaning pledges or rookies who· get drunk in their rooms or thos~ that slip on the icy walkways lip' to the house. (Hey isn't it Union \s job to clear those? Could have fooled me.) I know that if a pledge slipped outside of a house, whether in~ toxicatedorsober, and broke their leg, the college will charge the house with hazing. Everybody nowadays is looking for soJ~~one to,blame,even for accidents, in- cluding the college. Of course there are degrees, but that discus- sion is not worth getting into now: It seems that the campus suffers. organization and a pledge to the as a result of th~ vagueness of pictureandwatch·out,theremight policies and even more at the be hai:ing charges to face. enigmatic relationship with the J think it is time to have yet administration. another sheet hanging up in the Wheredoesthis leaveus,I nave CoUege Cyrtter, exc.use in~, th~ led you do.wn another winding Reamer, saying, \1 Promise to do and seemingly pointless road. myjobweU~ndhelpthestudents\ But, there is a point to ·all ofthis, and have lines for all the ad min- rules are made to be followed. istratorstosign. However, I doubt The administration picks and that this will 'go over wei:J. Just chooses w~ich rules they Hke to because one si~ns ~ornetQingdoes enforce and Which they do not. not m,ea.n they have toabide by That is fine with me because that the pledge tl~~Y ~ign, (That is an- seems to: happen '\in the real other story. )lt seemsto me if the world.\ However, they cannot be administration clears up policy allowed to pick arid choose from and has a few ·more lines of com- circumstance to circumstance dif· munication td them we would be ferent rules to uphold. If some- inab~tterbo~t. thing is. blatantly ha;ziJ?g. then .·Students ne<ed to feel that the people should pay and the admin- pow~ts that he are· on their side, i·stration has the duty to enforce And if, God forb.id~ hazing does it.. occur thatthey will act responsi- However; dO' ·not apply it in hly'and honorably and riotact the ·~uch a way the contradicts ot}ler ... haiY,(nopun!ntende~)yvay~hey actions you take, .. The'case n1ost donqw. (Ifanybodywantstohelp related to ihi~ wo~ldbe~nde_rage. ine. with that,she~t _sign 'thingy, drinking. -People underage drink ,contact !p.e, Y~ou 'te ~>mart, figure all over the: place, but tack on an out how to do that.) Must Being Intellectual Result jn a Lack of Pat~iotisDt? --------~··--- in session, Flag Day would help tome,andsomethingthats~le campaign funding,thendoaNott abouthjghiightingthedifferences Necl Abbott StcY\fWriter Right in the middle ef African Heritage Month and National Condom Month and after St. Valentine's Day, there is another commemorative day--Presidents' Day. One day commemorating not George Washington and Abraham Lincol11, but all ofthe other leaders <lfthe United States. While it happens to fall between Lincoln's birthday and Washington'shirthday. it is a holi- day to celebrate American vir- tues. This day celebrates a stable system ofgovennnentthathas ex- isted for over tvio hundred years, but here at Uni011, the day is not recognized. A large percentage of the student body are citizens ofthe United States, yet we could care less about the meanillg of February 17. We are irked that the mail did not come, that we cannot contact our -Congress people about an internship, and that the municipal library is closed. Union does celebrate com- memorativeh()lidays, such as Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Day, Founders Day. a11d others, but it leaves federal and state holidays without recognition. I understand that it is considered gauche among \intellectuals\ to be proud to be American., and that it can be said that Presidents' Day is just another celebration of the actions of white. Anglo-Saxon, Protes- tant males. American history is filled with the less-than-moral or less-than-ethical decisions made by some American leaders, and I am willing to recognize this, but not all actions taken by these men have been bad or without good intent. Presidents• Day just hap- pens to be t.l!e subject at hand; recognition of Memorial Day, Veterans' Day, and, when we are Union students fonnulate their would commemorate a nice day run, comm~morating President between people. As I have said, own identity within the larger that celebrates good men. Even Eliphalet, and decorate Chet's many ofUniort's students areciti- context of a national identity. President Hull could get in on statue. It's just an idea. zens, natural or naturalized, and Maybe Presidents' Day is ace!- this, being a President in his own We could go the quotidian a day that celebrates America and ebration of another time, a time right (though not to be com- route and have a speaker, but with her leaders should be a least rec- when beingproud ofthiscountry memora.ted). This could be an- speakers there is the inherent ognized. The recognition would was acceptable, and eve1' encour- other day for President HuH to problem that we have so many serve to bring Americans together aged, but now American are mote mingle with the students and to speakers here. We have speakers in a positive way and to show our willing to celebrate the differ- try to look approachable. He over the most mundane things, guests from other nations that ences than their commonalties. could quaff some Sam Adams, speakers whose purposes are to when Americans get together, it When we celebrate holidays for speak about John Adams, and educate the general public about does not always preclude some- the sake of celebrating holidays, criticize the current system of an issue, but the issues tend to be thing awful. such as St Valentine's Day, the meaning of the holiday is lost and the purity ofthe holiday is ditnin- ished. This is 110t to say that I am advocating selling Chester Arthur masks or .I immy Carter cards, giv- ing a Ronald Reagan lunch box to a love one, or spending 1noney and time at the fabulous. Price Chopper Presidents' Day Meat Extravaganza, but, maybe, just maybe, we should have a speaker on the roll of the President in American society. foreign pel icy, or maybe just a character study. Just recognizing the holiday with something small, such as free fries at Dutch Hol1ow in honor of President Clinton, would be something. Even just reco:gniz- . ing the day with something more substantial than a sign at the mail window saying. ''No Mail Today --Federal Holiday,\ would be a good start. Several students for the last couple ofyearshave deco- rated the statue<lfChester Arthur in between the Reamer Campus Center and the Arts Building on Chet's birthday. Something small, such as this, would make me happy and would be an outlet for my pride in being American. There are not that many outlets far American expression on this cam- pus. Our campus bar is named after a former President and it could have been agreatexcusetothrow a party. \Come drink to Cliet at Chet's\ sounds like a good idea Union Students CAN Live Without Diet Coke!! A few weeks back, as I pre- par~d t,o interview can?idates tor Umon s term abroad m Japan, I sent an email message to a fonner Union student, long graduated, who knows our Kansai Gaidai tenn well and who now lives and works in Japan. Advise me, I said. What one question should I be sure to ask these f91ks? His reply set me back a page. \So you're looking for one question to weed out those who can't handle culture shock? To be honest, I feel that the main fac, tor preventing many Union stu- dents from diving into the culture ofthecountry they're in, and get- ting the most out oftheir experi- ence, is the students themselves. I saw this when I was in Japan, and all my Union friends who went on other terms abroad saw it in their respective countries as well. As you well know, many Union students come from wealthy families, with comfort- able environments, and they stick tightly to their own group at col- lege. And Union is not exactly an ultra-diverse school. So when they go abroad, they expect more of the same. They expect Club Med. They stick to their group of Union friends and c<lmplain and whine about the hardships of living abroad. This sometimes borders on the ridiculous: like one student moaning about not being able to get Diet Coke in Costa R . I\ Jca. I would not like to think that this accurately captures the stu- dents at my institution. But I've -had a few sobering experiences in the past term - just enough to worry me a bit. A dip in applica- tions for tenns abroad~ especially the China term. A student sitting in tny office, saying \I love the academics here, but I've just got to transfer- there are just no real caring interesting people here!\ Straws in the wind. Hence this challenge to the campus. Here are three ways in which you can show that this alum's picture of the Uni011 stu- dent abroad is a caricature, not a reality. I )Apply to spend next fall tenn in China., Japan, or Korea. All three programs are still accepting applicants. Just walk into the Tenns Abroad oftice in Humani- ties. For information, taik with John Spinelli or Tom Werner about the China term. or with Sharon and GeorgeGntelch about Japan. They'll tell you about climbing through the mist on Y ei- Iow Mountain, eating steamed dumplings or raw fish, teaming to play the baniboo flute or to handle a mixed-sex hot bath. Because of the recent generous gift of Charles Evans 4 85, yve can now ensure that students with financial need are not barred from any of these programs in Asia. )) Seniors: wondering what to do next year? Last week Union was accepted into an Amity Foun- dation program which will send two Union seniors, as. a team, to China next year; to teach at a Chi- nese university for one or two years. Full airfare, generous monthly stipend, a summer orien- tation program, and institutional support. All you need to do to apply is phone Prof. Reynolds (x6217). 3) Easier still, let the East come to you: Meet a Zen Master at Union next week. Reverend Roshi Keido Fukushima will spend Monday and Tuesday on our campus, teaching calligraphy, Zen meditation, and Zen philoso- phy. Thisman, thechiefmonkat the Tofukuji Temple in Kyoto, sp.eaks no English. But his eyes and his gestures do all the com- municating one could wish for. For more info, Gall Modern· Lan- guages (x62ll ). So what more can I say to pro- voke a response? ~'Shape up or ship out\? Perhaps better still: \Shape up and ship out!\ By Bruce L. Reynolds

' ' ~ 1 • 'illle ffimuorointsts ·• Fel;:wuar:v 20, l t.JlJ7 • Page 9 ____ . · · · . Finals . MONDAY, MARCH i7; 1997- 9:00~11 :00 AM BI0*026*01. The Cell Danowski BAIL 2(}7 BI0*046*0 I Intro to Psycbobiology Weisse, ·c: BAIL 3'12 BIO\' 1 S3 *0 l Plant Biology Minotsky, P. BAIL 102 BIO*l70*0'1 General EhdoctiMlogy · Butterstein, G ·BAIL 201 CER* 152*01 Envit<mmentai•_Engr 1 GteJriJllion, P. BUTR 300 CHM*040*0 I Quantitativ~·Ch~nistcy ., \;~ ,-;: . Wem~r, T, : •· ,J3AI~ 104. CHM* 162'*0 l Polyrrler Chernish)r ·:f · · Anoi~son, ·l. :· BAlC lOO CLS*02l *01 History of Greece Loomis, W. HUlvlN 117 CLS*025'~'01 Hi$toryofRo1lie . ' Maclncola:l. HUMN'H6' CLS*031 *01 Survey of Aneient Epic Mace; S.· HUMN 112 ECO* 141 *0 I Mone~ary Economics Kwok, C. · liUMN H 0 EER *04J'!'Ol. ~lectr.iq Circ\'1ts F?tic,, Y1 NY/SE 114 . Ji:ER*J44*0l . Cormnup.icati<Jn Systems l Spinelli. J, .. l'lJWSE.20,1A HST*013*01 f!istotyofUSto.CivH War Oudden, F. SSCIO'l2 HST*oH*02 Historyof'US tc;> Civil War Wells, R. ARTS 215 HST*014*01 HistoryofUSS'inceCiVilWar . Henry,'$.' · HUMN ll4 HST*Ol4*02: HistotyeftJS. Since Civil War ·Miller, At.-' HUMN H5 HSH035~0l · History ofElll'ope 1 : Hansen, K · .• SSCll'03 HST>f'()-35~02 . Histocy.ofEiuppe 1 ,. · .) Sargent-,.8. · ' · . SSCI J04 HST*.O~~~O:l -.B:i. 11 tqry_of,E~t<?pe 2: \i~md~~. P,. SSCI !1.12:,;, HST*.()36*02 . l;Iistory.of~urppe 2 . , . Shap.ard, D,. . SSCI 014 . MER *041 *0 l 1 .~ngineeting Design 2 , Rivera,. M. · NWSE 22i MER*062*0i ThennalEnergy Conversion · Wicks, F. NWSE 210 MTH*028*0.l ·Probability · . · · · . Fairchild, W. BAI·L J06 PHY*05 J*fl 1- Inteanedi!lte Modern Physics McWhirter, J. NWSE 328 · PSC*063*0i . ~PartyPolitks ... , .,. ·,. ., .Fox, R. ·• . , . ARTS .. t09 . · PSY*-033*0 l .. Psychglo_gy c>f Memocy./Thin'king · 13um~; D.J. . HUMN 014 PSY*046*01 . ~ntr;q to.Psycbobiology Weisse; C 1 'S,AIL 312 RUS*Oll~O 1 B.a!!i~:Rus~ill!l-2 P!iv~lock, M. SSC1213 SPN* 148*0 1 Spanish G()lllen Age Theatre Martinez, L. SSCI 016 MONDAY, MARCH 17,1~91- 1:00-.3:00-PM AMU*02J *Ol ·Musii: Hist(lry & Lit 2 . CER*022*0 I Ci:vil Engr Materials . CHN+(H I *0 1 :Basic Chinese 2 ECO*Ol2*03 ln.troductio11.t0 Economics ECO*OJ9*0 I Public Finance ; GEO*Il3*01 Lakes & Environmental Change GER * lJ2 *O I Geiman Novellas/Short Stories GER* 142*0 I Deutsche Pf()sa: 1750 his Heute GRK*Oll *O 1 Principles of Greel<:2 JPN*O II *0 I Basic Japanese 2 MTH*Q58*02 Appls ofMath to Eco 1 MTH*099*0 l Intro .to LogiG. & Set Tl}.eory , PHL*020*Ql lntro to Loglc/Cr:itical Think PHL * 13 3 *0 1 Modem PlriiiLeibniz thru Kant PHY*040*01 Order & Chaos/Art & Magic PSC*OI1 *0 1 Intro to American Politics PSY*024*0 1 Social Psychol¢b'Y PSY*038*01 Developmental Psychology RUS* 121 *OJ Inteonediate Russian 2 SOC*024*01 Social Psychology SPN* 120*02 Intennediaie Spanish J SPN* 121*0 1 lntennediaie Spanish 2 SPN* 13-0*0 I Spanish & Latin American !Jit SPN* 130*02 Spanish & Latin American Lit MONDA)', MARCH-17, H,7- 4:30-6:;JO PM CSC*O·I 0*0 I · Computers &. Computing CSC*Ol0*02 Computers & Computing MONDAY, MARCH 17, 19t}1- 7:00-9:00 PM ECO* 163*01 Seminar: International Finance (SAME AS GMI261) McMullen, D. Gifford, G. Xie, Y. Rried, H. _ McCarty, T. Rodbell, D. Warde, A. Warde, A Marincola, ). Khan,·¥. Reynolds, P. Zwicker, W. Seltzer, R. Chavez-. Khosropour Fox,R Cummings, K. .Stanhope, L. Pavelock, M. Cummings, K. Moyano, P. Merediz, E. Izurieta,l. Izurieta, I. Almstead, L. Hedrick, J. Burgman, T. TUESI)A Y, MARCH 18, 1997-: 9:00-thOQ AM , B10*016*0 I Biology i . Fleish;nan, L. · BTO*Ol8*0 1 Biology 2 Tobiessett, P. BIO* 150*0 I Evolutionary Biology Boyer:'J. BIO* 154 ~0 1 Developmen,tal Biolob'Y Boyer, R CHM* 150*0 I Physical Chemistry I Haye~. D. EC0*033*01 Public Policy Klein, D. EER* 143*01 Electromagnetic Engineering 1 Chang, Y .. EGL*019*0l Major English Authors 1 Hilles, C. ENS*038*0l ·Environmental Scien/Atm()sphere Wilk, R. ESC*069*0 I Engineering Economics Anderson, A. F'RN* 120*0 I lnteonediate French 1 Dogbe, C FRN* 121 *0 I lnterinedia:te French 2 Leamon, A. GE0*020*0 l Mineralo!,')' Shaw, G. HST*Ol9*0 I America between the World Wars Henry, S. HST*022*01 Civil War & Reconstruction Dudden, F. HST*065 *0 I East Asian Civ Part I Madancy, J. HST* 146*01 Merry 01de England? Social Hst Halliday, P. IMP*Ol2*01 Integrated Math/Physics II Reich, G. JPN*l.fl *0 I Intermediate Japanese 2 Wojnovich, M. LAT*O 11*0 I Principles of Latin 2 Scullion, J.S. MTH*Ol7*01 Calculus lV:Integral Vector Frame, M. MTH*030*0 I Ordinary Differential Equation Rosenthal, K. MTH*058*01 Appls ofMath to Eco I Reynolds, P. MTH* 136*0 I Real Variable Theory I Hart, J. PHY*'Ol5*0 I Physics/Life Sciences I Newman, J. PSC*O II *03 lntro to Arn.erican Politics Nye, B. PSY*020*02 Statistical Methods/Psychology Greenberg, S. PSY*\050*01 ·- Educational Psychology Heinegg, R. SOC*O I 0*02 Intre to Sociology Grigsby:, J. SPN*O ll *02 Basic Spalli&h 2 Moyano, P. SPN* I 20*01 Intet1nediate Spatiish l Martinez, V. SfN* 121 *02 Intermediate Spanish 2 Merediz, E. TUESDA \', MARCH 18. 1?.97- 1:00•3:00 PM AMU*027*0l Perfoonance Workshop:VocalMcMullen, D. EGL *020*0 1 Major Enslish Authors 2 Jenkins, H. ENS*lSO*Ol Environmental Study Seminar I Tobiessen, P. PHL*O'l2*01 History Western Philosophy 2 Chavez, E. PHL* 174*0 1 Biomedical Ethics Baker, R. PHY*OI il*O I General 'Pllysics I • Matr, J.M PHY*Ol7*02 General Physics l Topor, N. PHY*017*03 Gener,al P.hysics I 'Topor, N. PHY*017*04 General Pltysics 1 Marr. J.M. PHY*Ol8*01 GeneJial Physics 2 Anderson, A PHY*018*02 General.Physics 2 Jones, C. PHY*O 18*03 General Physics 2 Rodriguez, G. ARTS U5 . BUTR300 HUMN213 SSCl UZ SSCI 104 BUTR 201 HUMN 113 HUMNI13 ·HUMNII9 .HUMN HO BAIL 106 BAIL 104 FIUMN ll5 HUMN 116 HUMN 014 SSCI 103 BAIL 300 BAIL 312 SSCI 213 BAIL 300 HUMN 112 .HUMN 114 ·HUMN 117 HUMN 117 SSCI 103 SSCI J04 SSCI 104 COLC SSCI 016 BAIL 201 BAIL 100 STZH 108 HUMN 117 NWSE201A HUMN 112 NWSE 114 NWSE210 HUMN 116 BAIL 300 BUTR20l SSCI 012 SSCI 103 SSCI 014 SSCI 110 NWSE 112 HUMN 213 HUMN 110 BAfL 102 BAIL 207 BAlL 104 ALUM 307 NWSE 116 SSCI 104 BAIL303 BAIL 312 SSCI 010 HUMN 115 HUMN 114 BAIL 1'06 ARTS 215 HUMN 114 NWSE 114 HUMN 116 . HUMN 110 sscr 112 SSCI 104 SSCI 104 SSCI l 12 S.SCI 0.12 SSCI 012 SS'CI 014 .. ·'· PHY\'Ol8*04 General .Physics 2 PSC*08lf~Ol Politics of the Middle East PS::Y*047\'01 Intro to Health Psychology · SPN* 137\'0'1 The Hispanic Short Story TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 1997- 4:30.~6:30 l'M ,ANT*O lO*O l · ll1rr?:¢ultu.,al Anihropology A't;+T*Ol0*02. ~.Jn.ti~;Cf1.1tuJialAnthropolqgy: .. TDESDAY, l\tARClit8: 1997- 6:0lJ-9:()1) PM CER* f71 *0 l CESenior Design ProjeC:t CER * 171 '~'01! CE Senior Des-ign Pr~ject CER* 171-03 CE Senior Design:Broject Rodriguez, G. Abootalebi, A. Fletcher, B. Martinez, V. Gmelch; G. Gmeich, G. Griggs, F. Lashway, K.. Lanaro, J. SSCI 014 SSCI 103 BAIL 312 HUMN 117 SSCI 016 SSCI 016 BUTR 109 BUtR 201 BUTR 300 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19.-19!)7 - 9:00711 :00 AM BIO*OZ4*0 I Genetic~ Boyer/Horton SSCI 016 BJO* 138*01 ¥odt.ml: Parasitology CER* 128*0 I .Strt1ctural Analysis EC0*03l *0 1 Micrmiccinomic Analysis ECO* 140*0 l Labor Economics EER'~'048*01 Semiconductor [}evices & Circts EGL *022*03 M<Uor American Authors -ESC*Q30*0 I Mechanics ofDefonnable Solids .FRN*Ol 0*0 I ~.asic Frea~ch I FRN*<H I *0 1 Basic French 2 GER*OlO*O I Basic Gennim I GER*OH*O I Basic Gennan 2 · HST*049*0 I Etarope Between Two Wars MER *033*0 I Fluid Mechanics MTH*07.0*0 I Fractals MtH:\I40*01 Linear Algebra PHY*052*0 I lntenned Chtssical Mechanics PSY*Ol0*01 lntro to Psychology PSY*020*0 I Statisticai Methods/Psychology PSY*025*01 lntro to Experimental P)fcl1 SPN*OlO*O 1 Basic Spanish I SP;N*Ol0*02 Basic Spanish 1. S~N*OJI*Ol Basic Spanish 2 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19, 1997- 1:00-3:00 PM CER*l32*01 Reinforced Concrete Design MTH*Ol0*0'1 Calculus I . MTH*O I 0*02 Calculus I MTH'~Ol2*01 Calctili.is 2 MTH*Ol2*02 Calculus 2 MTH*012*03 Calculus 2 MTH*Ol2*04 Calculus 2 MTH*015*01 Calculus 3 MTH*O !5*0Z Calculus 3 MTH*Ol5*03 Calculus 3 MTH*019*01 Linear Aigebr.a/Comp Var/Engrs PSY*030*0 I Personality THURSDAY~ MARCH 20, 1997 -1}:00-ll:OO AM AAH*038*01 Renaissance A11 in Italy I BI0*062*0 I World Agriculture BI0*072*0 I Preservh1g Biodiversity BIO* 136*0 I Cell Regulation Mechanisms CER *0 16*0 I CE Computer Applications ECO*Ot2*01 lntroduc~jpn ~o f?:conomjcs ECO*Ol2*02 lntroduction to Economics EC0*025*0l Technology Management ESC*O 13*0 I High-Level Language Programing ESC*Ol-5*0 I Numerical Methods & C Language ESC*Ol7*0 I Fundamentals of Engg/CS H ESC*O 17*02 Fundamentals of Engg/CS II ESC*O 17*03 Fundamentals of Engg/CS H ESC*O 17*04 Fundamentals of E11gg/CS ll GEO*Oll *01 The Earth & Life thru Time GEO* 130*0 I Geochemistry PSC*032*01 Amer Political Thought to WWI PSC*051*0 I American Foreign Policy PSY*Ol0*02 lntro to Psychology PSY*031 *0 I Abnonnal Psychol<)gy SOC* 168*0 I Sex. & Motherhood WST* 127*01 Sex & Motherhood Tl:iURSDA Y, MARCH 20, 1997 -1:00-3:00 PM CER*O 16*02 CE Computer Applications CHM*O I 0*0 l Fundamental Chemistry I CHM*Ol0*02 Fundamental Chemistry I CHM*O 12 *0 I Fundamental Chemistry 2 CHM*Ol2*02 Fundam~ntal Chemistry 2 CHM*OI2*03 FWldamental Chemistry 2 CHM*032*0 I Organic Chemistry 2 CHM*032*02 Organic Chemistry 2 FRIDAY, MARCH 21, 1997-9:00-11:00 AM AMU*030*0 l American Music ANT*OI2*01 Gender & Society CLS*044*0I Poetry & the Cosmos EC0*042*0 l Macro Theory & Policy EGL *051 *0 I Chaucer GER* 120*01 Intennediate Gennan I GER* 121 *0 I Intennediate Gennari 2 HEB*O ll*O I Basic Hebrew 2 HST*079*01 Afi:ica in the 20th Century JPN* 131 *01 Advanced Intenn Japanese U LAT* 141 *01 Roman Historiography MTH* 124 *0 I Geometry PHL *038*0 1 Eastern Philosophy PHY>i<020*0 l General Physics 4 PSC*Oll *02 Intro to American Politics WST*O 10*0 I Gender & Soci~;:ty FRIDA\',. MARCH 21, 1997- 1:00-3:00 PM AAH*022*01 Medieval Art & Arch ofN Europ ACC*O I 0*0 I Survey of Accounting CLS*030*0 1 Greek & Roman Tragedy in Trans EOL*-020*02 Major English Authors 2 PHL * 144*0 1 Political Philosophy PSC*012*02 lntro International Politics PS,C*030*0 1 Modem Political Thought PSC*071 *0 1 Civil Rights& Civil Liberties PSY*Ol0\'03 Intro to Psychology PSY*049*0 l Psychology of Apcliction Styles, T. NWSE 116 Mafi, M. BUTR 109 Yaisawamg, S. SSCI 104 Prosper, P. $SCI 012 Chang, Y. NWSE 201A Shour, N. HUMNllO Keat, W. D. NWSE 210 Krupzak, M. HUMN 117 Curran, A HUMN 112 Kellenter, S. HUMN 114 Warde, A. SSCI 112 Hansen, E. SSCI 103 Shanebrook, J. NWSE222 Frame, M. BAIL 102 Zulli, L. BAIL 104 Maleki, S. STZH 108 DeBono, K. COLt Greenberg, S. BAIL 300 Bums, D.J. BAIL· 312 Martinez, L. HUMN 115 Osuna, M . HUMN lli6 Izurieta, I. HUMNOI4 Thabet, W. BUTR 300 Niefield, S. SSCI 104 Niefield, S. SSCI 104 Fairchild, W. BAIL 100 Cervone, D. BUTR 109 Muckenfuss, J . BAIL 201 Hart, J. J(.)hnson, B. Johnson, B. Zulli, L. Zwicker, W. Cummings, K. Mauhew, L. George/Tobiessen Schadler, M. Danowski, B. Serth, .T. Motahar, E. M~tahar, E. Schmidt, S. Green, E. Hedrick,J. Almstead, L. Wicks, F. Traver, C. Rudko, M. Stander, E. Hollocher, K. Brown, C. Abootalebi, A Juster, H. Rubonis, A. Grigsby, J. Grigsby, .1. Serth, .1. Lou, K. SSCI 103 BAlL 207 BAIL 207 BAIL 102 BAlL 106 BAIL312 ARTS 215 BAIL 102 BAIL 100 NWSE222 Bl)TR 106 SSCI 104 SSCI 104 HUMN 115 STZH 108 STZH 106 NWSE 114 STZH 106 NWSE ·116 NWSE201A BUTR 300 BUtR 201 SSCIOI4 SSCI 112 BAIL 312 BAIL 207 HUMN 110 HUMN 110 BUTR l06 Skelly Frame, E. NWSE 11'4 BUTR300 BAIL 201 BAIL207 Scaife, C. Carroll, M. Fox, K. Hull,L. Adrian; J. NWSE 116 BUTR204 BUTR204 Olsen, T. ARTS 215 Brison, K. HUMN I 15 Mace, S. HUMN 110 Kwok, C. SSCI 012 Hilles, C. BAIL I 04 Hamm-Ehsani, K.HUMN 2 I 3 Hamm-Ehsani, K. HUMN 213 Heckelman, D. Hl.JMN 112 Miller, A.T. SSCI 014 Khan, Y. SSCI 010 Loomis, W. HUMN ll3 Cervone, D. HUMN 014 P atrik, L. HlJMN 116 Khosropour, R. NWSE 328 Fox, R. SSCI 103 Brison, K. HUMN I 1 5 Matthew, L. Lewis, W, Scullion, J.S Stevenson, R. Baker, R. · Abootalebi, A. Brown, C. Underwood, J. Rubmiis, A Do,wling, T. ARTS 215 BAIL 201 HUMN 110 HUMN 115 HUMN 112 SSCl 014 SSCI 103 SSCI 110 BAIL 207 BAIL 312

(>age 10 • Februar~~ 20, 1997 • QII~c. QJllltcoroi~'nsis . . Rns & It1tcnainme.m Power. \ Starring Clint Eastwood, Gene Hackman, Ed Harris, Judy Davis, Laura Linney, Scott Glen, E. G. MarshalL Di- rected by Eastwood. Rated R, Columbia Pictures. ''Fools Rush In.\ Starring Matthew Perry, Salma Hayek. Directed byAndy Tennant. Rated PG-1 3, Columbia Pictures. What do the new Clint Eastwood film and Matthew Perry's first cinematic feature have in common? Both are shells of a complete movie which retain their viewer's interest solely through their star appeal and a few intriguing moments. Eastwood directshimselfin the latest of a string of White House- oriented conspiracy thrillers (this Apri-l, Wesley Snipes stars in Mzwder at 1 600), and in this film he plays jewel thief Luther W\litney who hits a particularly wealthy home one night, the resi- dence of Walter Sullivan (Marshall), the man who helped put the President in office. While cleaning out the home's jewelry tion, he hears a noise, and in walks the President of the United States himself(Hack- man)andSullivan 'swife. Whitney hides, the President and his lady'\ friend get sadomasochistic, and when the whole scene turns into a vi<>lentstruggle, theSecretSer- vice cmne in and protect their leader, shooting the woman. Davis, as the ChiefofStaff, tries to cover up the crime, but Whitney walks away with a key piece of evi- dence: a letter-opener which the woman used to stab the Presideat What follows is a man-oi1-the- run scenario .. in which Glefitl, as a Secret service agent, taps a police investigator's phone (played by Harris); lawyer Linney, who, as Eastwood's daughter, gets fol- lowed by Hal'ris, who also sus- pects Eastwood of being at the crime scene; and Marshall, as the billionaire who believes the Presi- dent is his friend, hot his wife's killer. Eastwood, showing his age, plays the role ofgeriatric criminal well. particularly in the eerie open- ing break- in where he shuts-down the home's Security system with the aid ofhisreading glasses. The Eastwood and Friends Spend Valentine's Weekend in Theaters film, however, has a thin plotthat doesi:t'tta:ke cqmplicated gue.s~­ work to solve. EssentialJy, since the audience khows the e,vents of the scene of the crime, the story entails Harris and others piecing together the little available evi- dence, It is a long fHrn without. much substance (the crime itself takes u:p a lot of screen time, and: seems very staged)~ Overall, Ab- solute Power is directed with a sluggishness not characteristic of Eastwood's previous efforts (even The Bridges of Madi~on County), makingitamoderately• entertaining· but rather valueless motion picture. Fools Rush In, featuring the l'ast ofthe Friends cast to hit the big screen, sees Matthew Perry as a New York developer who is invited to design a plaza in Las Vegas. By chance, he meets the sexy Salma Hayek in a restaurant bathroom and has a one-night stand with her. Three months later, she shows up at his door, pregnant. The couple get mar- f• ,:l ried quickly aQd discover their .cui- aft;er se;x a try. For:tJ;tnately, the turaJ. and lifestyle .qitJerences will script doesn't g<Q fo.r the nearly tear. them apart. funnyhgn~, .althoughj!:!onsidering Thismo.v::ie is1.mique .. in itsex- t~e)ssues:tapkled,here, you'd ploration of such a theme not . thi<nkastromg~rfo~uswouldhave common in A inerican comedies. rested in whetherthese characters Perry, at first, seems to want help made-:th~ riHiht:choices. By the raise the 91;lild, and the cpuple fall finale,thestol)'hecomes the stan- in love.after. .Aiongthe_wa:v, they dard Ilollywqod sappy-ending, face importan1 choices, includi.ng with the:duohappily together and how to haadle their different back-. completely ignoring the chal- grou:nds with their families, lenges facing each other in the Perry's 1nove back to New York, long run. and ultima~ly, living together, .· . to pick betwe¢n these two di- Perry'sreal,litefatherplayshison- .. versemovies is difficult, but Fools screen dad, who meet's Hayek Rush In adds the greatest amount family and accq.rately portrays tlle of freshness forits genre, despite stereotypes associated with two its good premise which ~evelops peoplefr,om vastly-ditlerentc;ul; into a lovv-key seq11ence of tures meeting for the first time. For thes~ reasons 1 the film is .· not laugh~out loud funny, but cute. Perry delicately borders the line between sleaze ball and con- fused boy, not real-izing the re- sponsibilities of marriage and fa- therhood. Hayek plays a confi- dent, strong, ru~d hopeless roman- tic who is not afraid to give love events. l ~, Ratings: (outoffour) Absolute Power- ** 112 Fools Rushin- **1/2 The Department of Performing A~ts Presents \Something Old, Something New'' 0 by Gabriela Dory Staff Writer This Friday, February 21 at 8:00 PM, the Department ofPertonn- ing Arts will present the last con- cert in the \Something Old, Sorne- thing New, Something Borrowed, Something Blue\ concert series. Professor Hillary Tann, chair of the Department of Performing Arts, will present ''Some- th i ig Old, Some- thing New,\ the title ofthe Huntley Harp Trio concert in the NottMemorial .. The concert se- ries was previously initiated by the De- partment of Per- fanning Arts as a way of introducing new professors to the Union commu- nity When Profes- sor Dianne McMullen joined the Music Depart- ment last fall, the Department dec1ded to organize another concert series for the Union College Community. The two previ- ous concerts were those of Pro- fessor Tim Olsen entitled \Some- thing Blue,\ and Dianne McMullen, \Something Bor- rowed.\ ProfcssorTann will con- clude the three-part series with her concert. in addition to the three recent compositions by Pro- fessor Tann, featured works by the t~uned harpist, Carlos Salzedo, will also be perfonned. Tann is especially enthused tor her concert at the Nott Memorial because her composition, \From the Song of Amergin,\ will pre- miere in the United States. Writ- ten in five sections and played without a break, the piece was in. spired by three lines from Robert Graves' restoration of the text of an ancient Celtic calendar-alpha- bet, the \Song of Amergin: I am a wind: on a deep lake,/ I am a tear the Sun lets fall,/ I am a hawk above the cliff.\ During her sabbatical last fall, Tann traveled back to Wales, to do research for her composition. She began to study the harp, and contacted harpist Elizabeth Huntley to help her write her first piece for the harp. The result of their efforts produced Tann 's first composition for the Harp. The concert con- cludes with a beauti- ful harp trio by Claude Debussy. The performers are Michael Emery who will play the violin and the viola~ Jan Vinci who will play the flute, and Elizabeth Huntley '74, who will play the harp. rn addition to a her concert, Tann will also present a Colloquium , which will preview her some of the concert pieces She hopes to share with the audience some of her experi- ences while writing her music and talk about her inspira- tiol1s. The Colloqui.lim will provide the audi- ence with a window into the mind of an artist_ a11d Tann believes that, the Colloquium will give people a chance to better un- derstand her music and the cre- ation process.. The Colloquium will beheld today ftom4:30 o 5:30 in the Campus Center Auditorium. YOU COULD LEARN A LOT FROM A DUMMY;® U.S, Department·ofTransportatlon. \Vince a Lorry.e\019as u.s, DOT .. e-males/females The College Network of the Capital Region http://www.crisny.org/~singles

Power. \ Starring Clint Eastwood, Gene Hackman, Ed Harris, Judy Davis, Laura Linney, Scott Glen. E. G. Marshall. Di- rected by Eastwood. Rated R. Columbia Pictures. \Fools Rush ln \ Starring Matthew Perry, Salma Hayek Directed by Andy lennant. Rated PG-I3. Columbia Pictures. What do the new Clint Eastwood film and Matthew Perry's first cinematic feature have in commo1~? Both are shells of a complete Jn()vie which retain their viewer's interest solely through their star appeal and a few intriguing mornents. Eastwood directshimselfin the latest of a string of White House- oriented conspiracy thrillers (this April, Wesley Snipes stars in Murder at 160()),and in this film he plays jewel thief Luther W 1 ,itney who hits a particularly wealthy home 011e night, the resi- dence of Walter Sullivan (Marshall), the 111an who helped put the President in office. Whi Je cleaning out the home'sjewelry tion, he hears a noise, and in walks the President of the United States himself(Hack- man) and SuHivan 's wife. Whitney hides, the President and his lady- friend get sadomasocn is tic, and when the whole scene turns into a violent struggle, the Secret Ser- vice come in and protect their leader, shooting the woman. Davis, as the Chief of Staff, tries to cover up the crime, but Whitney walks away with a key piece of evi- dence: a letter-opener which the woman used to stab the President. What follows is a man-on-the- run scenario in which Glenn, as a Secret service agent, taps a pol ice investigator's phone (played by Harris)~ lawyer Linney, who, as Eastwood's daughter, gets fol- lowed by Harris, who also sus- pects Eastwood of being at the crime scene; and Marshall, as the billionaire who believes the Presi- dent is his friend, not his wife's killer. Eastwood, showing his age, plays the role of geriatric criminal welL particularly in the eerie open- ing break-in where he shuts-down the home's security system with the aid ofhis reading glasses. The Eastwood and Friends Spend Valentine's Weekend in Theaters film, however, has a thin plot that doesn't take con~plicatedg~:~ess­ work to solve. Essentially, since the audience knows the events of the scene ofthe cri1ne, tile story entails Harris and others piecing together the little avaihble evi- dence. It is a long film vvithout much substance(thecrime itself takes up a lot of screen time, and seems very staged). Overall, A b- soluJe Power is directed with a sluggishness not characteristic of Eastwood's previous efforts (even The Bridges oj Madison County), making it a.rnoderately- entertaining but rather valueless motion picture. Fools Rush In, featuring the last of the Friends cast to hit the big screen, sees Matthew Perry as a New York developerwho is invited to design a ~laza in Las Vegas. By chance, he meets the sexy Salma Hayek in a restaurant bathroom and has a one-night stand with her. Tl1ree months later, she shows up at his door, pregnant. The couple get mar- ried quickly and discover their cul- tural and lifestyle diflerences wiU nearly tear them apart. This movie is unique in its ex- ploration of such a theme not common in American comedies. Perry, at first, seems to want help raise the child, and the couple fall in loveafter. Along the way, they face important choices, including how to handle their different back- grounds with their families, Perry's move back to New York, and ultimately, I i v ing together. Perry's real-lite tatherplayshis on- screen dad, who meet's Hayek family and accurately portrays the stereotypes associated with two people from vastly-diflerentcul- tures meeting for the first time. For these reasoHs, the film is not laugh-out loud funny, but cute. Perry delicately borders the line between sleazeball and con- fused boy, not realizing the re- sponsibilities of marriage and fa- therhood Hayek plays a confi- dent, strong, and hopeless roman- tic who is not afraid to give love after sex a try. Fortunately, the script doesn't go for the funnybone, although considering the i'ssues tackled here, you'd think a stronger focus would have rested in whether these characters made the tight choices. By the finale, the story becomes the stan- dard Hollywood sappy-ending, with the duo happily together and compl:etely ignoring the chal- lenges facing each other in the long nm. To pick betVIeen these two di- verse movies is difficult, but Fools Rush In adds tl~e greatest amount of freshness for its genre, desp1te its good premise which develops into a low-key sequence of events. Ratings: (out<Jffour) Absolute Power- **112 Fools Rush In- *'*l/2 The Department of Performing Arts Presents \Something Old, Something New\ by Gabriela Dory Staff Writer This Friday, February 21 at 8:00 PM, the Depart1nent of Perform- ing Arts will present the last con- cert in the \Something Old. Some- thing New, Something Borrowed, Something Blue\ concert series Professor Hilla!)' T3nn. chair of the Department of Performing Arts. will present \SoJne- thing Old, SoJne- thing New.\ the title of the Huntley I larp Trio concert in the Nott Memorial. The concert se- ries was previously mitiated by the D~­ partmcnt of Per- forming Arts as a way of introducing new professors to the Union comJnu- nity When Profes- sor Dian nc McMullen joi11ed the Music Depart- ment last faiL the Department decided to organize another concert series for the Union College Community. The two pre'Vi- ous concerts were those of Pro- fessor Tim Olsen entitled \Some- thing Blue.\ and Dianne McMullen, \Something Bor- rowed\ Professor Tann will con- clude the three- part series with her concert In addition to the three recent compositions by Pro- fessor Tann, featured works by the famed harpist, Carlos Salzedo, will also be perfonned Tann is especially enthused for her concert at the Nott Memorial hecause her composition, \From the Song of Amergin,\ will pre- miere in the United States Writ- ten in five sections and played without a break, the piece was in- spired by three lines from Robert Graves' restoration ofthe text of an ancient Celtic calendar-alpha- bet, the \Song of Amergin I am a wind on a deep lake,! I am a tear: the Sun lets Jail ,I I am a hawk: above the cliff\ During her sab batica ll ast fall, Tann traveled back to Wales, to do research for her co1nposition She began to study the l1arp, and contacted harpist Elizabeth Huntley to help herVJrite l1er first piece for the harp. Tl1e result of their etTorts produced Ta11n 's first composition for the Harp. The concert con- cludes with a beauti- ful harp trio by Claude Debussy. The performers are Michael E~nery who will play tl'le violin and the viola, Jan Vinci who will play the flute, and Elizabeth Huntley '74. who will play the harp In addition toaher concert. Tann will also present a ColloquiLIIn • which will preview l1er some of the con~ert pieces. She hopes to share with the au.d icnce some of her experi- ences while writing her music and talk about her inspira- tions. TheColioquium will providetlleaudi- ence with a window into the mind of an artist. a11d Tann believes that, the Colloquium will give people a chance to better un- derstand her music and the cre- ation process. The Colloquium will beheld today from 4J.O o 5:30 in the Campus Center Auditorium. YOU COULD LEARN A LOT FROM A DIJMMY.® U.S. Department of Transportation \Vince & Larry <ll\ C>l985 U.S. DOT .. e- males/females The College Network of the Capital Region http://www .crisny.org/'\'\'singles 1 I

SATURDAY -SUNDAY,FEBRUARY1.2-l3 A red Chevy Mal-ibu that Ita<.! a dose encounter with a meteorite that fell to earth in Peekskill in 1992 is a featureqhighlightoftheNew York State Museum fifth Annual Gem & Mineral Sho:wandSale inAlbany from 10:00-AMto 5:00PM. Admission is $3 per pe_:rsonand includes admission to the car display, sale, and pro~ gt.a:ms .. Museum 1nem-bers pay$2.50.;Chil4ren .t2.and tmder are free. · · Highlightingthe research and collection~ ofthe Museum's Ne,w Yo-rk$tatiGeologioal Survey; this weekend~s festival includes a major gem and mineral show and sale. Also featured are lectures,hands-onprQgrams, and other activities with Museum scientists and metn'bers of the Eastern Foundation of Mi11eral and Lap-idary Societies. Vendors ftem across the country will\disp:Iay. and sell getns, jewelry, minerals, hooks, videos, lapidary equipment and supplies, stone catvirrgs,.beokends,. .silver and go.ldsmithing tools, gold prospecting supplies, and more. Door pri~es wiUbe given away every hour. for .further .information; contact 1he-Muse11m at( 518}474-5877. SUNDAY ... MONDA\',FEBRUARY23-24 · · Home Made Theater ofSaratog~.Sprifl:gswill.hold open auditions for their upcoming production ofthe British: farce, Noises Off. No appointment is necessary. The production, direct~d by Helena Binder, will open Apri 125 for a three-weekend run ending May 11. Audltionswill beheld on Sunday and Monday~_February 23 and 24, from 7:00 to 9:00PM at the Spa Little Theater. The cast consists offour women and five men, ranging in age from early 20s to early 60s. All requireg(Jod English accents. This is an ensemble piece that requires physicality, and a good. sense of farce and timing, For the auditions~ actors wil1 read from the script, a copy of which is available at the Saratoga Springs Public Libr-ary's reference desk. All those auditioning should bring a current photo to the audition_ Photas cannot be returned. Rehearsals will begin Marolt 9 .and will be held evenings five days a week. to receive additional infonnation on auditions, call theHomeMade·theater at(518)587-4427. WEDNF.SDAY,FEBRUARY26 Get on the Bus, directed by Spike Lee, will be shown at 3:30' PM in Page Hall, 135 Western A venue, on the University at Albany's downtown campus. ·The screening is free and open to the public. Opening on October 16, 1'996, the first anniversary ofthe Millimi Man March, the film follows a group of abouttwenty black me non a cross-country bus trip from South-Central Los Angeles to attend the historic march in Washington, D;C. The film was recently featured at UnionCollege as part ofthe Film Committee's WinterFilm Schedule. For additional infonnation. c<mtact the Writers institute at( 518) 442-5620. THURSDAY,FEBRUARY27 Fiction writer Kwadwo Agymah Karna11:,. a native ofBaFbados~ will read from hiswork at ~:O(J-PM in the Assembly Hall, Campus,Gitmter ofthe Unil{ersity at Albany's 1;1ptown campus. Earlier that afternoon., at 4:00 PM in humanities 3 54 on, the University • s uptown campus, Kamau will hold an informal seminar. Both the seminarapd the reading are free and open to the public. , Karnau' s first novel, Flickering Shadows; received critical acclaim last year. His short stories and essays have appeared in numerous publications and he is currently working on his second novel. For additional infonnation, contact the Writers institute at( 518) 442-5620. UNTn..MARCH2 .Saratoga's Home Made Theaterwill opentheirproduction of the compelling drama The Deal at the Spa Little Theater. This marks the area pretniere of Saratoga Springs playwright Matthew Witten's award-winning play. The Deal is fast-paced action, pitting man against man in a story of greed, corruptron, and extortion. The Deal runs through March 2. Perfonnances are at 8:15PM Fridays· and Saturdays and l:OOPMSundays. Ticketpricesare$15 and$13. Forreservationsorfor furth<;o;rinfonnation, call Home Made Theaterat(518) 587-4427. \ACT\ NOW! Aide-de-Camp, Albany Civic Theater's benefit production company ,is selling a new cookbook entitled Showstoppers, with the profits benefiting local AIDS charities. The books, which sell for $:8 each, are available atperfonn~mcesatAlbany Civic Theater, the Schenectady Civic Players, and BookHouse of Stuyvesant. Initial recipes were used to pay for the printing of the cookbooks, which feature many recipes by local theater people, film, and Broadway stars, and other local people. Profits ,~· I,~'. ' w.il I• be used t9 providea small fund for the continued operation of Aide-de-Camp, with aU additional profits going to such groups as the Ryan White AIDS Penta! Clinic at Albany Medical Center Hospital. T:he books are also available by rriail for $10 to cover postage and handling. Ordercanbesentto: A.C.T.,P.O.Box6172,Albany,NY 12206. ONTHEWRITETRACK Writers ofnewlong.and short plays are invited to submit unproduced works for consideration .tor Albany Civic Theater's fourth annual Playwr:ights Showcase. Fully staged readingsofthe works will be presented on the first weekend after Labor Day, Septem her 5-September 7, with 8:00PM performances on Friday afld $atur:day and a 3:00 .PM performance on Sunday. · Although no deadline t0t7 submissions has been set, those plays which arrive firstllave the best chance for.selection. Late submissions may be held over for .future consideration. formore information, call (518) 462-1297. Address mail inquires to: Albany Civic Theater,P.O. Box 6172, Albany, NY 12206. NOW SHOWING Works by Capital Region craftspeople are among the more than 200works by contemporary craftor.s from across New York State selected for exhibition.in Con- temporary New Y or.k State Crafts, the first comprehensive exl~ibit of contempo- rary crafts from throughout New York State. The New Yark State Museum in Albany organized 'the exhibit which will be on view at the Museum from February .6through May26,1997. Works in clay, fibre, glass, metal, mixed media, and wood were submitted by . artists from the Westerll and Central regions of the state, the Adirondacks, and the Hudson Valley including New York City and Long Island. For more infonna- tiotl, call (518)474-5877. · The Albany lnstitl,lte of History & Art is celebrating the bicentennial of the City of Albany serving as the New York State capital with The Cap.ital Comes to· Albany, a new exhibition presenting the stories of people, events, and issues surrounding the establishment of Albany as the permanent home of New York State government in 1797. The exhibit also explores the life ofthe city of Albany at the time of the 1897 celebration ofthe centennial ofthe Capital in Albany. The Capital Comes to Albany draws on a selection of portraits, photographs, docu- ments, and objects from c_ollections of the Albany Institute. The exhibi_t also examines the society and culture in Albany at the end of the l&th century. It will be on view in the Albany Institute's South G~llery through .lm1e 1, 1997. ' The Albanylnstitute of Histor(&' Art is focated at 125 Washington A venue in . downtown Albany. Call (518)463-4478 for intonnation. AlSOATTHEALBANYINSTITUTEOFHISTORY &ART , January 18-March 2: Marble Dust-and Magic Lakes: American Sandpaper Paintings from the Collection of Randall and Tanya Holtc:10. A major folk art · exhibition focusing on 19th century charcoal and pastel drawings on sandpaper. East& West Galleries, Main Hall. January 18-March 2: Mac Faculty Show. Works by regional artists who are also instructors in the Albany Institute's Museum Art Class and Art Partners pro- grams. MACGallery. January 25-Aprill3: Leon Marcotte: 19th Century Cabinet Maker and Inte- rior Decorator. Features an important suite of c. 1865 Louis XVI furniture de- signed and manufactured by the French-born cabinet -maker Leon Marcotte ( 1824- 1887), along with Eastman J olmson painting depicting a piece of the furniture. ATIHEALBANY CENTERGALLERIES January 17-February 28: The Mohawk Hudson Regional Invitational, featuring W()rk by Judith Brust, Steve Perkins and Thomas Sarrantonio, in the Leslie Urbach Gallery. January 17-Febntary 28: Paintings by Gerri Pugliese Moore, in the Upstairs Gallery. The Albany Center Galleries are located at the comer of Chapel and Monroe Streets in downtown Albany. For more infonnation call (518) 462-4775. Chart-Toppers .tt· Quick Look at What's Entertaining America · ·' ' .·· (Week of February 3-February 9) .StcarWars Dante's Peak . Beautician ari-d Beast Jerry Maguire ·· . Scream Gross (in. millions) $24.3 $18.5 $4:J $3;() $3.6 ~ :· (}ross to date · $393.5 '$t21.3 $75;9 m,y:;~,.~~tf~~:~:~;; ~~i: ·· ···;lls···· 1 '\' ~:9 .. ,_,,,. ! ; . ·-·· \./ :i Guy' • _ ... zS_2 . . . . 6 TouFive Album Sales Artist l . No Doubt 2. Soundtrack 3. Toni BrilXton 4. Soundtrack 5. CeUne Dion J;'-lR;liTive VidetJ&ntAis Tttle ·- · 1. :Phetromenon 2.Jack 3.Theltock 4.\ A Timeto-Kill S.Eddif!l: Title Tragic Kingdom Gridlock'd Secrets Evita Falling Into You Dtstffbutor Touchstone Herl}'W()od . Hot1)'W{)od Warner Hollywood Label Tramna/lnterscope Death Row/lnterscope LaFace/Arista Warner Bros . 550Music!Epic Last week l 2 3 4 lff'i'ft~f!i~l'/ii •;.>:r;;:,@~;!''{fi{',c•:.v• . <• . ,. •.if:-; ;; _... A'flirtfatinli.tion c'(}ttttesy Entertainment Weekly

age • F ebru~ry 20 , 1997 •· W~e Qhnu~nroiensi's . . · . . · - :. · . Arts & (nteita.intnent · l.®Gal Arts Calendar SATURDAY-SUNDAY,FEBRUARY 22-23 A red Chevy Malibu that had a close encounter with a meteorite that fell to earth in PeekskiH in 1992 is a featured highlight of the New York State Museum fifth Annual Gem & Mineral Show and Sale in Albany from 10:00 AM to 5:00PM. Admission is $3 per person and includes admission to the car display, sale, and pro- grams. Museum me~nbers pay $2.50. Children 12 and under are free. Highlighting the research and collections of the Museum's New York State Geological Survey, this weekend's festival includes a m~jor gem and rnineral show and sale. Also featured are lectures, hands-on prograns, and other activities with Museum scientists and members ofthe Eastern Foundation ofMineral and Lapidary Societies. Vendors from across the country wil'l display and sell gems, jewelry, minerals, books, videos, lapidary equipment and supplies, stone carvings, bookends, silver and goldsmithing tools, gold prospecting stapplies, and more. Door prizes will be given away every hour. for further infonnation, contactthe Museum at (518) 474-5877. SUNDAY-MONDAY,FEBRUARY23-24 Home Made Theater of Saratoga Springs will hold open auditions for their upcoming production ofthe British farce, Noises Off. No appointment is necessary. The production, directed by Helena Binder, will open Apriil25 for a three-weekend run ending May 11. Auditions will be held on Sunday and Monday, February 23 and 24, from 7:00 to 9:00PM at the Spa Little Theater. The cast consists of four women and five men, ranging in age from early 20s to early 60s. All require good English accents. This is an ensemble piece that requires physicality, and a good sense of farce and timing. For the auditions, actors will read from the script, a copy of which is available at the Saratoga Springs Public Library's reference desk. All those auditioning should bring a current photo to the audition. Photos cannot be returned. Rehearsals will begin March 9 and will be held evenings five days a week. to receive additional information on auditions, call the Home Made theater at(518) 587-4427. WEDNESDAY,FEBRUARY26 Get on the Bus, directed by Spike Lee, will be shown at 3:30PM in Page HaiL 135 Westem Avenue, on the University at Albany's downtown campus. The screening is free and open to the public_ Opening on October 16, 1996, the first anniversary of the Million Man March, the film follows a group of about twenty black men on across-country bus trip from South-Central Los Angeles to attend the historic march in Washington, D.C. The film was recently featured at Union College as part of the Film Committee's Winter Film Schedule. For additional infonnation, contact the Writers institute at (518) 442-5620. THURSDAY,FEBRUARY27 Fiction writer Kwadwo Agymah Kamau, a native of Barbados, will read from his work at 8:00 PM in the Assembly Hall, Campus Center of the University at Albany's uptown campus. Earlier that afternoon, at 4:00PM in humanities 354 on the University's uptown campus, Kamau will hold an informal seminar. Both the seminar and the reading are free and open to the public. Kamau 's first novel, Flickering Shadows, received critical acclaim last year. His short stories and essays have appeared in numerous publications and he is currently working on his second novel. For additional infonnation, contact the Writers institute at (518) 442-5620. UNTILMARCH2 Saratoga's Home Made Theater will open their production of the compelling drama The Deal at the Spa Little Theater. This marks the area premiere of Saratoga Springs pi aywright Matthew Witten's award-winning play. The Deal is fast-paced action, pitting man against man in a story of greed, corruption, and extortion. The Deal runs through March 2. Performances are at 8:15PM Fridays and Saturdays and 1:00PM Sundays. Ticket prices are $15 and $13. For reservations or for further infonnation, call Home Made Theater at (518) 587-4427 \ACT\ NOW! Aide-de-Camp, AI bany Civic Theater's benefit production company, is selling a new cookbook entitled Showstoppers. with the profits benefiting local AIDS charities The books. which sell for $8 each, are available at perfonnances at AI bany Civic Theater, the Schenectady Civic Players, and BookHouse of Stuyvesant Initial recipes were used to pay for the printing of the cookbooks, which feature many recipes by local theater people, film. and Broadway stars, and other local people Profits will be used to provide a small fund for the continued operation of A ide-de-Camp, with all additional profits going to such groups as the Ryan White AIDS Dental Clinic at Albany Medical Center Hospital. The books are also avaHable by mail for $10 to cover postage and handling. Order can be sent to: A.C.T., P.O. Box 6172, Albany,NY 12206. ONmEWRITETRACK Writers of new long and short plays are invited to sub1nit unproduced works for consideration tor Albany Civic Theater's fourth annual Playwrights Showcase. Fully staged readings of the works will be presented on the first weekend after Labor Day, September 5-September 7, with 8:00PM performances on Friday and Saturday and a 3 :00 PM performance on Sunday. Although no deadline tor submissions has been set, those plays which arttve first have the best chance for selection. Late submissions may be held over for future consideration. for more infon:nation. call (518) 462-1297. Address mail inquires to: Albany Civic Theater, P.O. Box6172, Albany,NY 12206. NOW SHOWING Works by Capital Region craftspeople are among the more than 200 works by contemporary craftors from across New York State selected tor exhibition in Con- temporary New York State Crafts, the first comprehensive exhibit of contempo- rary crafts from throughout New York State. The New York State Museum in Albany organized the exhibit which will be on view at the Museum from February 6 through May 26, 1997. Works in clay, fibre, glass. metal, mixed media, and wood were submitted by artists from the Western and Central regions of the state, the Adirondacks. and the Hudson Valley including New York City and Long Island for more infonna- hon,call (518)474-5877 The Albany Institute ofH istory & Art is celebrating the bicentennial of the City of Albany serving as the New York State capital with The Capital Comes to Albany, a new exhibition presenting the stories of people, events, and issues surrounding the establishment of Albany as the permanent home of New York State government in 1797. The exhibit also explores the life of the city of Albany at the time of the 1897 celebration of the centennial of the Capital in Albany. The Capital Comes to Albany draws on a selection of portraits, photographs, docu- ments, and objects from collections of the Albany Institute. The exhibit also examines the society and culture in Albany at the end of the 18th century. It will he on view in the Albany Institute's South Gallery through June I, 1997. The Albany fnstitute of History & Art is located at I 25 Washington A venue in downtown Albany. Call (51 8)46J-44n tor infonnation. ALSOATTHEALBANYINSTITOTEOFHISTORY &ART January 18-March 2: Marble Dust and Magic Lakes: American Sandpaper Paintings from the Collection of Randall and Tanya Holton A major folk art exhibition focusing on 19th century charcoal and pastel drawings on sandpaper East & West Galleries, Main Hall. January 18-March 2: Mac Faculty Show. Works by regional artists who are also instructors in the Albany Institute's Museum Art Class and Art Partners pro- grams. MAC Gallery. January 25-April 13: Leon Marcotte: 19th Century Cabinet Maker and Inte- rior Decorator Features an important suite ofc 1865 Louis XVI furniture de- signed and manufactured by the French-born cabinet-maker Leon Marcotte ( 1824- 1887), along with Eastman Johnson painting depicting a piece of the furniture ATTHEALBANY CENTER GALLERIES January 17-February 28 The Mohawl< Hudson Regional Invitational. featuring work by Judith Brust. Steve Perkins and Thomas Sarrantonio, in the Leslie Urbach Gallery Jantmy 17-Fehruary 28 Paintin~s by Gerri Pugliese Moore, in the Upstairs Gallery The Albany Center Galleries are located at the corner ofChapel and Monroe Streets in downtown Albany For more intonnation call (518) 462-4 775. Chart- To.ppers . BeauticianandBeast . Jerry Maguire ··. Screalfl Title l.Seinfeld ··.ER ·.Friends • . The Single Guy · .1'he Naked truth Gross (in millions) $24.3 $18.5 $4.1 $16 $3.6 Viewer~ (inntillions} 33.8 33.3 28.9 252 25.2 A Quick Look at What's Entertaining America (Week of February 3-February 9) Gross to date $393.5 $121.3 $15:€) Last week 2 1 3 6 TopFiveAtbumSales Artist 1. No Doubt 2. Soundtrack 3. Toni Braxton 4. Soundtrack 5. CelineDion Top Five VidtoRentals Title 1. Phenomenon 2.Jack 3. The Rock 4. A Timeto:Kill 5. Eddie Title Tragic Kingdom Gridlo.ck 'd Secrets Evita Failing Into You Distributor Touchstone Hollywood Hollywood Warner Hollywood Label Trauma/lnterscope Death Row/Interscope LaFace/ Arista Warner Bros. 550 Music/Epic Last week 1 2 3 4 4 -- -A1Unformation courtesy Entertainment Weekly

As we ~re now well over half- tion there were inatiy unfamiliar way through the tenn, we are all faces. Where 'do these· people hop~ fully ha-ving fun (at least we come from? They just happen to are). Valentine's Day has come come out ofthe woodwork oJJ the aAd goae (thank god) and every- weekends. Oh yeah, wait a oneisb,ack totheirnor.mal selves. minute they must not g~ to our The ~anp~r weather that came school. 1 along ·with Valentine's Day (at Not everyone got out on Sat- least we thoughtso) aHd allowed urday nightLATENIGHT. There us to shed out warm winter coats, were those peopfe who could 11ot is now a thing of 1he past. It is be otlt past 12 because they were so cold at times that walking any- FULLY OUT OF CONTROL. where is highly undesirable. Not We mean don't youpeopJe {arid leaving thebuilding all day if one you know who you are }know the does not have class is always the meaning of take it slow. If the chosen option. We are like her- room starts to teellike it is spin- mits trapped inside only to leave ning in circles then it is prob~bly when it isabcsolutely necessary ot time to call es~ort and ge.t to bed if we can go via escort. as soon as possible. This is 'deti- This past weekend brought nitely not the time to engage in excitement t0 the Union College more HARDCQRE partying ac- campus. With the men's ice tivity. Contrarytopopularbeliet: hockey team having two great MACKIN' .IT with a. complete victories, everyone seemed to be stranger when you are blitzed is in good spirits. Notto mention not cool. that the women's hockey team Dinner with the President was had a stellar defeat of Skidmore, a good way to start off our week. leaving their cocky# 11 crying to With all our great ideas we may her coach Ollst kidding). Well, get ourselves a cappuccino rna- anyway, a great numberofpeople chine in the campus center, or at were out Saturday night GET- least thafs what we were told. TING THEIR. GROOVE ON, that We have come to the conclusion • ··:_;1 •' .... :· : : ; nitely big enough for more than one person (don't get any ideas), _ Okay ,.\!~ere'; ·the thi~g. La~tw~ek I was i~ :upperclass Din- andwe could divide them to make . in~, and they wer~ having one.~ftheir many \theme\ dining experi- it so we don't have to wai1 a half ences. ,N',?W;, I: .for ont; _deeply appreci;:1te those Who work in Dining hour for a shower in the mom- ; Services, €1Specially the Upper-class.kids who.are always kind. I di- . 1ng. A special note to the males gress .. The point is, ()TI thi~ particular evening the .\theme\ w~s Mardi 'of ~rd floor West, and you know Gr:as. Right 9!1·!) .thought to myself as I enteredthe colorfully-deco- wnoyou are: showers aremeatlt rated,dininghalL, w,heret.~r so~ndoffa!~tjazz ~~s;yagl.lelyaudible, for cleaning cnesel f (alone). mixing SOIT!ehowwi:th t~e Sl'tl.ell risi»g from the food, c~eatin~atotal Please do not engage in any kinds experience, l f1gured, hey ,it's Mardi Gras; l'll play alo~g. So, I turned -Qf nefarious acts in them that to the girl next to me and.yelled, \Show m~ )!.Oi)r :t~ts! 11 Needless to could possibly lead to damaged say, she wasn'tthoroughly impressed. Look, all I'm s&)ting is that if tiles and curtains, • • \\ ,I ·, you're going yat at a theJnti. dinner~ you'd better 'be• willing to play It's too bad that tbics ha$~been . .it, ,noth ir:lg I~ ore, no moral orstory. Just when ·you're at ., afivedayweek, considering that .. Gras,;md a.guy offe(S you cheapplasticbead:s_forahreifflash we are the only school on·god'.s your bre(,lsts~yo.t,td(l j{ - - . · . · green earth who actually had , So wit~out further adieu, here's this week's list. -school this past Monday. We J~an,.aren't you supposed to ac- lmoWiedgePresidenfs Day. It's -· funnY how we seem to be in a time warp ar\d f!on'e of us eve~a knew what day it was, let alone thatitwasanational holiday. So, have a good one, we'll.see. you next week. This is Whitney and Cari saying good-bye(we really mean it), and once again we will leave you with a Snaps. \Your mother is so dumb that she thinks Olde English 800 is a college course.\ . TopTeli Rej'ected Upper-Cia$s Th.emeMeals· . - - ' . . - .. ) - - • ' . ' . u; '10. Open SoreNight 9. Convience Store HotDog Day 8. Ebola Pudd,ing 7. Overpriced SecondTier College\Night 6. Crack Den Night 5. Alfred·o \Secret Sauce\ · . 4. Under-Age Sex Night 3. Oppression Stew · 2. T.T. Boy and Blumpkin Hair Night I. MeetThe Student forum Night is,ontheda11cefloor. Nottomen- thattheshowersin Westaredefi- _. -----~--~----~~-----~----------~----! Stuuentsojthe Week: fi\e your taxes. This year, millions will file their tax returns by phone - using Telefile, a free service from the IRS. The call is. easy and refunds are fast. Check your mail fo.r a Telefile booklet. ~il Department of the Treasury 'diJJJI.nternal Revenue Service http://www. irs. ustreas .g ov This week the award goes to a group of students who put a great deal of time and effort-into the recent produCtion of Angels In America. Emil a Teasdale and her outstanding cast and crew put on a tremen- dous show: l'was deeplyimpressed. If anyone deserves thisaward it is this group ofmotivated students, a living pronouncement against the claim that Union students are apathetic. Hate Mail? Questions? Comments? Professions of undying love? Write Rawson Thttrber at Box #2018, or e·maH him at Thurberr@idoi.Linion.edu TeleFile It's free. It's fa,st. It works.

Features . · \ · 'QII~t' <!Ic,nch:ro1tusis • .Februat•y 20., i997 · Page lJ A Healing Solitude by Micllelle Th~m· St(ljfWriter battle. There are so tnany life-al- tering implications to what we achieve· today. The future never seemed like it was so close, but Sometimes the world just feels now it is and academic failure is theneedtocrash in on you. It de- so mucli more harsh because it cicles to attack the cahn serenity slowly becomes a personal failtm~ that took forever to achieve. Ev- to us as well. Everyone has those erythirig seemsto be pulling, tug- mmnents, when being al'one is all ging in different <lirections, and that can help and when drowning y~m Jose yourself in the stress of outtheresfofthe world seems im- fout o'clock' 1nidtermsand crying perati ve. Living in such close friends. in the hallway. Running · proxirnitytosomany peoplehin- into your room hnly hurts more. ders that need, and finding spme~ because you(toomm.ate's there, where to just thinkis hard.' because this ist:t't really your When everything feels li~e it's home, becaasethe~honecanstill in perpetual crisis, jusr tutn and. · ring andpull you in; · · start w~lkii1g. Firid a place where So, there seetils Hke~nothing is riothlng is palling you~ where np · ·1·1'! 001 AND SLUMEM~ tJarR,. TAL~IN& &TRAJGI-IT Pl~Oft\ -rtle', ER ••. Ali!lfO: ( 5\J~lA.JG ss AS USUA ~-) left, like there's nowhere to turn one is ,deinartcli~g your voice o:r and scream o~t lou(justto !Ceep asking. for your time. Stand some sense of sanity despite all against the railing of a wooden . . . . B· · a· c· ·k· . T· 0 -- . N· atu re the madness~ but, maybe there is. bri4ge,and clQseyou~ eyes. Let th~ .. ~~----~ • · · ·. •. .· · , · · . · . · - ------- d< - • ' _ • • • - • < ~ , • , -.. ' _• ' ! ; • t • ~ , r ' • _ j I remembeffitsttehn, sitting 011 ·windblown snow sprinkle again~t a bench under a tree, looking at your skin and calm you down. lt the leaves change colors ... watch- only takes a tnotnent to feel cori- by.J~ffery Druzba Staff Writer ing the green_ grass fade ... feding tent again . .Soinetimes. we just People can he frighteningly the rush- of a cool br~eze. r need· to ground oul\selves and to simil-ar to the other animals on thought that place lost itself to 1ne stop the rush of stress and emo- this Earth. l always thought that in .the winter, because it was too tion that wants to ·consume us. human intellect and reason were cold to sit on a bench inthemidst Maybe the sun isn'tshining, Gr what distf11gLiished us J'fom all ofawhite,snow-fiHedsea.How~ no on.e -smiled back when you · else·intheanirnalkihgdom. This ever, Jackson's Gardens is still smiled first, or maybe you just got past weeke11d; in the span of an there, and in the wintertime it has·· in a fight with your best friend. hour~ I witnessed two reasons found a different kind ofbeauti- They -may seem like l:ittle things why certai 11m embers of our spe- ful, a different kind of serenity but everything adds up. Trains of cies ought t<l be caged up with that helps ju:st as much. problems rush through our lives out long loiit gorilla relatives in lt'sfunny.Collegelifeseetned and crish aga~nst us. Over and theneatestz:oo. so amazing at first That breath over this happens, hut we always U appears to me that some of independence that has been stand up and wait for it again .. people are a few links less re- flushed into my life is still just as Because for all the bad, there's · ·moved fro-m zooattractionstJ:ran great. Still, sometimes having enough good that makes it worth others. Thef<>llowing true events peopleacrossthehall,aroundthe it Everyone has their own speakfortllemselves: comer, and just upstairs i;;;; a little Jackson's Gardens, a place where While approaching the front of overwhelming. It's hard to find nothjng can touch them, and the Fox don11,. ,early in the morning solace amon1:llaughter-filled halls sound of silence is mesmerizing. on Saturday, my ears caught the and blasting stereos. The thrill of Once found, that :place keeps ev- unmistakable sound of people always havi.ng sotneone around erything okay, makes everything making cott:)plete asses out of hasn't really faded~ it.just has to better, stops everything from hurt- themselves. Yes, it was another find some sort of moderation. ing. poor, drunken display straight Even studying has become a aheadofme: fhesethings always Asthma Research Asthma is a chronic respiratory disorder characterized by coughing, wheezing, and ~hot-tness of breath. We are dedi- cated to evaluating investigational drugs for the intlam-. mation and obstruction found in the lungs of those with asthma. We need asthmatics, age 4-70 years, to help evalu- · ate research medications. They must be non-smokers and in good health. Participants will receive a free asthma evaluation, related care, and the opportunity to learn more about theor asthma. Those qualified will receive study med.icatioR and be paid. These studies are conducted un- . der the s11pervision of a board certified allergist and clini- _· cal immunologist in a private setting. ----·- _______ .....,.. _________ . ...;..;.,...;,~~- For further information call 452-2510 Mondayo~Friday 8AM to 5PM or_ l-800-363-3464 (24 hours) have a pattern to them, don't they? The trouble initially begins when Ricky starts jostling Johnny. It seems that these inci- dents always arise because Johnny was looking at or hitting on the YSLJng WOJ?lan Ricky had been trying to hook up with all night. The d :isagteement usually starts with ::n-Jot..:so-calm request: Ricky says, \'Get away from my F-ING woman A-HOLE!\ and Johnnycoo11y asks, \You got a F-· lNG problem, Yo?!\ Let's take a break from the scene I w.irnessed and make some . commentary. This is clearly the alert stage of the events to fol- low. Watch the Discovery Chan- oel sometime and you 'H see what · I mean. Some lizards puff the skin ot'theit necks out to appear big- getthan i1onnal. Dogsandwolves bristle their fur and growL Cats ·hiss. Moose walk around each other with their eyes glaring and wide. Of course, once Johnny has ' answered in the same manner as Ricky's demand, the inevitable is sure to happen. Now it's a matter pf who will throw the first hit That person is usually Ricky, the guy whooriginally had the prob- . !ern. He doesn't just throw a pumil!i thqugh. Johm~y is sure to repeat the following over and over again: \C'mon. C'mon, go ahead A-HOLE! (:'mon. C'mon.\' Ricky has no cboicc, after being taunted so, than to de.ck Johnny. Back in nature, snakes coil around each other and wrestle for superiority while the male moose begin to clash horns. This is the point in the conflict when Betsy Sue starts whimper- ing, \C'mon Ricky! .lust leave him alone.\ She's real concerned now. Ricky could get hurt in this scuffle. Immediately, Ricky and Johnnyis friends grab their bud- dies and restrain them. This isn't enough though. Both Ricky and Johnny struggle and kick their friends to get that one hit at each other all the while yelling at each other: 'Til F-ING kill you, Get the F-K out of here!\ and \C'mon you F-ING A-HOLE. I '11 kill you MOTHERF-ER!\ All the while, I'm looking on the scene thinking, \Yeah go get him. Tiger.\ This is also the point where I realize what really sepa- Allergy & Asthma Center of Albany Med 215 Washington Ave. Ext Albany Medical College · Albany, NY 12205 Division of Allergy Excellence in Patient Care andClinicalRes~arch Desert Rose Consignment Shop Union College Undergraduate Summer Research Fellowships Available Earn $2,000 plus free room at the College You must have a faculty spunsor for your project Information and applications a.tthe Dean's Office S IIJOO Science Center Applications due March 5th 1726 Union Street, Niskayuna · Quality Clothing at a Fraction of the Original Price. 20%, Off with Student ID (N()t to be used with any other discount · rates man from beast. Man is the only species-on the planet that has friends to hold him back. What separates a certain few of us from the othet animals is that some of us have friends with a higher intellect and ability to rea- son. The best thing a violent drunk can have is a friend who still hangs out with him and keeps him out of trouble time after time. Once Ricky and Johnny have parted ways with each other at their friends' bidding, they're sure to start yelling at each other from a (iistance .. This is the scene that I saw theothernight. Oneguy yell- ing at the other at a distance of at least 1 00 yards, \I 'II F-JNG kill you! Come here!\ Really now? You're that enraged that you're going to kill him? No, my friend, what you need is a cold shower Then comes the chase scene. Johnny runs after the other but ends up staying a good 30 teet behind the other group, shouting the same foulmouthed gibberish after them the whole time. This night's incident ends but every weekend is filled with its good share of the same. Deep in the African jungle, the competing gorillas mangle and .shred each other. Back at Union College in Schenectady, it's more ofthe same. There's no excuse for such a poor disp·lay oftestoster- one gone awry. If you're a vio- lent drunk, I beg of you, please don't drink so much. If you're a violent drunk and you don't care what anyone thinks, please thank your friends for having more sense than you. Really, watch it all on the Discovery Channel. They call it Safari Week. s~tlc! ' 50% off Selected Items 'til March 1 'Ifte Open. 1>oor \-1111Uf-~ 1ZHJ6 '}tty S&. ~· ~ 518•J<I6•Z7U •

c.-.·' ~ '. Global News Soft Money Contributions Reach U11precedented Highs by Suzanne Dougherty Global New Editor contributions they received for advertisinggearedtowards glo- ri.fying their presidential candi- date, while not passing the le- gal prohibition against endors- ing them. They called these advertisements \issue ads\ to circumvent the rules that the money cannot he used specifi· cally for a candidate. Unlike other individual con- tributions made $122.3 million in soft money contributio-ns. Republicans have historically raised more money through businesses and corporations than the Demo- crats. In both the 1992 af.)d 1994 elections, the Republicans raised between $12 and $15 million more insoft money con- tributions than the Democrats State ofthe Union address last week, declared campaign fi- nance reform as his \second piece ofunfinished business,·· He has set a deadline of July 4th of this year for finishing it. To finisl1 this task in the lOSth Congress will be .d,ifficult. With the Republicans raising more •:n<mey in soft donations than the Democrats, it is ~m- likely that a ernment. A recent study conducted by the Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics this past week found that the Democratic and Republican parties raised an unparalleled $263.5 million in soft money contributions dt~ring the two-year cycle lead- ing up to the 1996 election. This vast sum of money was almost thJ:ee times the.$89 mil- lion the parties collected for the 1992 campaigns and close to two times the $106.4 million donated in 1994. Soft money contributions are those made to the Demo- cratic and Republican parties by corporations, labor unions, and wealthy individuals. Legally, tl1is money cannot be spent di- rectly on a candidate, rather it must be used by the parties tor generic advertising and for other party-building activities. In the I 996 election, both the Democrats and Republicans used much of the soft money to candidates, there is no limit on soft money donations. This allows it to be a cornrnon h>Op- hole tbr contribu- tors. The study said, \Becau.se soft money \Because soft money knows no limits, individuals, co.rptJrations, unions, and other interest groups can:1 and do, write ch-ecks for· $50,0()0; $1 00,000; or- even more. \ - Centerfor Repsonsive Politics Republican- con t re II ed Congress is go- ing to initiate any sweeping calnpaignto fi- nance reform l egi sl action. However, there· have been a multitude oflegislative propos- als 0ver the past month, rang- ing from repealing all cam- paign finance laws to total pub- lic financing ofcmn pai gns. The piece of legislation receiving the most attention has been the McCain-Feit1gold bill (S25) and its counterpart in the House (HR493), Th.is bill, proposed by SeFlator John McCain (R- AZ) and Senator Russel D. Feingold (D· WI), would ban soft money contributions aFld contributiens from pol:itical ac~ tion committees. President CJ,inton has ex- pressed his.supp:ort for the liill and would like to see its pas- sage by July 4th, in honor ofthe natiO'Fl 's F·ounding Fathers. Feingold believes that Clinton's support increases the chances of this passing through Con- gress. He stated that \ .... his strong words and his bipartisan approach will help prov,ide mo- mentum needed to get the bill passed.\ knows no limits, individuals, corporations. unions, and other interest groups can. and do, write checks for $50,000, $1 00;000, or even more.\ Between the 1994 election and the I 996 election, the Re- publicansreceived.$141.2 mil- lion and d1e Democrats got 'rHaving Bill Clinton talk about campaign finance .r~form is like having O.J. Simpson talk about the murder of his wife. Why should we be talking about new laws when he is not even complying with existing laws? 11 Appropriations Chairman Robert L. Livingston (R-LA), speaking about Clinton's desire to reform campaign fi- nance laws. 11 1 vote for beer. 11 Philip Jimeno, Maryland state senator, dttring a debate on whether milk should be declared the official state drink. 11 Jews are not our enemies. Americans are notour enemies. Our history is not our enemy. Buttheway we deal or not with our own history - that could be the enemy.\ Thomas Borer, a career diplomat in Washington, remark- ing on Holocaust-era bank accounts and Swiss gold pur- chases and commerce with the Nazis. IOOONCOI.UGE v:~~ . CDC Updates ..• Centtr cai'EEJ'S In Communications & MEdia Guest speakers in the television. public relations, and publiShing fields will speak in Old Chapel on Wee , Feb 26 at ?pm on their careers and job <>ptions . ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• RECRUmNG UPDATES: Ken Chose '96 with Merck will be on campus to speak about Pilanna· ceutical Sales on Wed. Feb. 26 at Spm in Milano Lounge. Resumes will be accepted. Please sign up in advance at the CDC. Cooper EDvJ.ronmental, Inc. is seeking CE. ME, and GE majors for staff engineers and geologists. Resume and Transcript deadlioe: · Fri .. Feb 28. Eastman Kodak Co. has various entry level positions in engineer- ing and science for CS, EE, CH, ME, or AM major~. Company infonna- tion is forthcoming and/or you may access their ho.mepage- www.kodak.com. Scannable resume referral deadline: Fri .. Feb lit Todd Lawrence '87 with lloechat Marlon Roussen (international j)harmaceutical fliDI) will give an info. session on Thurs .. March 6 at 1linl tor students interested in pharmaceutical sales. Interviews: Friday, March 7. Resume and transcript deadlipe: Fri .. Feb. 28, Sapient Corporation will conduct on campus interviews with Tom. Kingsley '93 on March 6. Students receiving a BS in AM, CS, EE, MS in CMS, BA in MN or IE, or Int1 MBA are eligible for positions. Check out their homepage-www.sapient.com for more info, Most Republi~ cans feel that raised. The GOP committees received 96 percent oftheir soft donations from businesses and their executives. The Demo- crats collect~d 87 percent of their contributions from busi- ness and 11 percent from orga- nized labor. President Clinton, in his their tirst priority should be fo- cused on investigating any wrongdoing by the Democratic NatioFlal Committee in their f\md~rai sing practices. The DNC bas been accused of ac-- cepting millions of dollars in donations from Asian business owners and the Chinese gov- llOCHESTERIANS, UNITE·ATMCC.~! MCC's summer sessions let you earn credit transferable to your college. Get more out of your summer: Get full course credit 1n far less time. At MCC. Speed up your journey through college. Get a prerequisite out of the way. Take a course you've been dreading. Or re-take a course that took you. MCC offers you two campuses, with over 300 courses to choose from. All at the low cost of $99 per credit hour. Most are available when you are-morning, afternoon, or evening-so you can earn AND learn this summer: Be smart. Get credit for summer: At MCC. Session I starts May 27 Session 2 starts July 7 For complete information, call 1-800-724-SUMMER (78\) or 716-292-3400. Or visit our web site at www.monroecc.edu -- \' ... ~- - - - - - - ~ \\ - - - - - .. ... . •- . - - ~ . . - .. - - ·- - ~ - ~ .. . - - . ... .. ... ~ p~ l goc I ym 1 s )c; Ma a!\ all. J. da) joy hac Lo) 1 Yo he a p Sar Bre shiJ yO\.: terr T we( f\, witl lud Adr T thOl gre~: got1 .FM( T that day part ters Jv fuh in g. do\' Lov P1 lovt Grur

To the Admiral, good to us. - N.S. PeltaDelt:aDeltaGirls,Weiove you all!- Caitlin and Fenna To Castle, Stephanie, Lee, Sloane & Sloane, Katie, Lex, Margit, and Shannon, Thanks for always being there -- I love you all ~Love, FMC xxx Amy arid Christy, Happy Birth- day Roommates. You both are a joy to be around, .and 1 hope you had wonderful .celebrations; Love, Adriar'l To· CJM - I love you sweetie, You're in my thought and in my heart. - Love, FMCxxx Pastor, I<ris, Annie, Troy, KTR, Sand, Deb, Jess, Matty, Jessie,. Bren, Liss, Vick, and Lani, \Friend- ship is a sheltering tree.\ Thank you for being so supportive this term.- Hugs and Kisses, Caitlin To Bambi- Had a great time this weekend! Love, Thumper Megan- I loved road tripping with you. LetS do it again! Good luck with your crazy week. - Love, Adrian To CAC, SAN, LMC: Even though it is going to be another greatyeat, always rememberwe've got each other. I love you! - Love, .FMCxx:x Brookage-- Why look back and frown when we can look forward and smile! Love, PJ ToKaren:. I sentyouapersonal. Do-you feel speCial;)? l missyou, and I hope that you are doing well in Mexico. Love, Ainy D.: To Both Heathers--Don't he sick! Get well so('m! Love, J enn Deb- WRONG! Y ou'rc; the LOSER! Let'.s get the facts straight. -Freak Smith· GO TO SLEEP! -Freak Yaddy- Boys stink, good thing wc:fdon't. -Love, Ace· To my sisters, Thank you fot giving me· the greatest pledgepe-. riod ever (the whole year arLd 16 daysofit)! We'veleamedsomuch and come so far this year. Some- tirires lite's greatest blessings are in disguise. I love and appreciate youallsomuch! DeltaWeek 1997 was awesome! Thank you. Love, Genevieve Graham, a VERY PROUD sisterofDEL TA DELTA DELTA To the New Initiates of Delta ,_ · Delta-Del~ Congr.atuJati\Ons! We,,? To our \Crushes\- We hope are so proudof you. Continue that you had a good time Satur- everything that we've worked so day night. We had a great time hard for. We love you guys! The partying with you. Love, The Sis- SistersofDeltaDeltaDelta ters of Gamma Phi B~ta '\ Mom- Thanks for the wonder- ful weekend of bonding and play- ing. We will have to go skiing down Broadway more often. - Love, Friena To Me~ and Siri-: you meah·the world to me. I love you b-oth! Love, Pool Gabriela- Congratulations on your terrific performance. You 1 ight up my life, so I am sure you light up the stage. - Love, Adrian Pi Alphas--Keep on rockin'! We love ya!!! The Sisters .of Delta Gamma Rawsoti - Sweet dreams wit11- out us; use a condom. - The Girls . .. UN·ION LAUNDRY: · 561 NOTTST SCHENECTAOYNY1~ (ACROSS . FROII UNION eoti..Etl£1 . OPEN DAILY SAM TO 10:30PM FREE·DRYING· · .. __ TUESDAYS &.THURSDAYS···' . . 8AMT03PM·~·. ~ .. $1, PER. WASH. §TH: WASH . 7 WAJH'll 1 FOR $5,. 28 WASHES FOR $20. ... IIAL: (CIA OEPOSrr WOUA SUGGEST¥JNIOX) THIS AO TO UNION L.AlNlBXFOA A FREE WASH. INCUJOI! rotR NAE\ ANDADORI!SS. ANY SIZE. ROLL. ... 3!\ Double Pri:nls 4\ Double Prints , THE COLLEGE STORE R~AMER CAMPUS CENTER SAL·E EFFECTIVE FEB. 6 - 28 24 HOUR SERVICE MAKE YOUR MEGA MOVE TODAY! ---:the dutcll hollow- restaurant.._---- ....

ECAC Hockey Standings ECAC/Bauer Men's Basketball League Only Overall Player of the School GP W-L-T. Pts GF GA W-L-T Comell 18 12-4-2 26 68 49 15-6-4 Week Overall UCAA Clarkson 18 13-5-0 26 . 73 44 20-8-0 Team Won Lost Won Lost RPI 18 11-4-3 25 73 57 16-8-4 Trevor Koenig. Junior St. Lawrence 20 2 10 0 Vennont 18 10-5-3 23 56 50 18-7-3 goaltender, (Edmonton, Alb.); A Hamilton 12 8 7 2 Princeton 18 9-7-2 20 59 50 14-8-3 second straight POW selection Hobart 9 10 6 3 Union 18 9-7-2 20 47 44 16-10-2 was a \no-brainer\ as the nation's Clarkson 10 12 5 5 Colgate 18 8-8-2 18 66 64 14-12-2 GAA leader became the first Union 5 16 3 7 Harvard 18 8-8-2 18 49 49 9-14-2 ECAC goalie (in the \post-split\ RPI 4 17 2 8 St. Lawrence 18 4-10-4 12 59 72 9-17-4 era) to record back-to-back shut- Skidmore 5 16 I 9 Dartmouth 18 5-12-1 11 61 58 10-14-1 outs in an ECAC weekend sweep Yale 18 4-12·2 lO 46 69 7-15-3 in which Union took care of both Brown 18 3-14-1 7 61 92 6-17-2 Vermont and Dartmouth by 2-0. lo-.,. I

. ,- SllOJ1s · · · · · · · Uf!tl' <!Ion.cornicttsis • Febrmny 20, 1997 • Page 17 Ford ScoreslOOtb,Skates Into Union History Book Courtesy of 8porl$lltform.tlti(Jn Chris Ford made Union Col- lege hockey history last Saturday night. The Rochester, NY native became the first Dutchman in Union's six-year old Division I history to score I OOcareerpoints when he recorded an assist on the Skating Dutchmen's second goal ina2-0 Eastern College Athletic C o'nference victory 0 ver Dartmouth. Ford's accomplish- ment not only brought the ]1omestanding Achilles Rink crowd of 2,042 to its feet, it helped the Dutchmen secure their third postseason berth in the last four years. The6 '0, l80pound senior for- ward picked up his 99th career point on Frid~y as he scored the second goal in the Dutchmeh 's 2,.. 0 victory over nationally-ranked Vermont, knocking the Cata- mounts out of a four-way tie for first in the ECAC. Ford became Just the 14th player to jo,in the Century Club since hockey be- came a varsity sport(at the Divi- sion I'H.level) in 1975. Ironically, it is his much im- proved defensive play that has led to Ford's current offensive pro- duction. \I didn't get a lot of ice time at the st~rt of the season because Coach Moore had different ide11s on what I should be doing defen- sively,\ Ford explained of first· year head coach Stan Moore. \He wanted me to work on my over- all defensive play to play more structured hockey within his sys- tem. He set my mind to raise my level of play and he has helped me improve my overall game.\ Ford's rookie season of Divi- sion I college hockey saw him fin- ish as the Dutchmen's leading scorer in both goals (20) and paints (35). Union, which had won only three games in each o-f its first two years at the Division I levd, posted 15 wins thanks to Ford's freshman success. He helped lead the Dutchmen to an 7-0-2 record down the .stretch and to a sixth place finish in the E\ast- em College Athletic Conference. Union then posted a 4-3 victory over travel partner Rensselaer in the first game ofthe best-of-three playoffs. The-Dutchmen lost the next two games, but with 15 freshman and just one senior on the 1993-94 roster, it seemed that the Dutchmen were ready to make a s-tatement in tile talent-rich ~ . . . . \ \ECAC. Notbadfm acollegethat does not give athletic scholarships or .preferenti:::d ai(f based on ath- letic ability. \What happene<! to me and to the team during my f:reshrnan year was. quite a surprise,\ ex- plained Ford. \It wasn't anything that I expected. Comii1g into the season I had a lot of uncertainty about playing time, about establishing a relations:h ip with the coach and my team.,. mates and about playing Divi'sion I hockey in general. I just dklh'tknow what to expect. \We had a rough start as. a team ( 1-S,..J }, but we hacla:gteat run at the end. No one exJJected us to come on like we cfid. lt was an incredible second'lulf of the sea- sol'!.\ The next two years were dis- appointing to F<!rd, his team- . mates, and to the f<lllowers of Union hockey. F <Jrd's sopho- more year saw tile team end up with a 9-16-4 recorcland a lOth place finish in the ECAC. The Dutchmen lost in the preliminary game of the playoffst<1 Princeton, 5-2:- His junior yea.r was-even more disappointing as Union's record dipped to 7· 19-4. Worse, the Dutchmen finisfled 1 t th ;n the ECAC and failed to make the postseason party. \My sophomoreye,armade me realize exactly \NI1at I evel of hockey I was play,irtg· at,\ said Ford, who saw his production faH to just eight goals a11d22 points. \Last year I did well personally (leading the team in scoring with 26 points on eight goals and 18 assists), but ultimate~y r wasn't happy because the team wasn't winning. My goal affl:er my jun- ior year was to In::tk:e sure that Union never had ase:asGn ]ike that again.\ So far Ford and his teammates have been true to tl\leir word. A dedicated off-season oftiftingand rumiing combined vvith the new optimistic philosopfly of Moore has the Dutchmen battling tbr a top-four position in the ECAC and hotne ice advantage in the ·firstround ofthe playoffs. \Coach Moore has been great,\ stated Ford. \He uses a lot of basic drills that focus on skills. played junior hockey for the United States Hockey League Des Moines Buccaneers fOF two seasons. Ford finished ·as the leading scorer in the national tour- nament, helping theBucs win the championship with a 9-1 win over Compuware ofDetroit in his second season. Recruited by several Division I schools, Ford came to U11ionbe- cat.lse of its outstanding academic reputation, the beauty of the cam, p1,.1s, and the fact that he could play place ill Ullioll's \Ce11t11ry Cllcb\. (Rick Leder.er I TC) right away When yougetto this level some- for a young, struggling team. times you forget wl1at it took to Four years later, Ford, his team- develop your skills. Stan has mates, and Uni0n's program have brought that back and it has matured. helped me a lot.'' 'T ve learned a lot about how Ford began developing his attitude affects the way a team skills a11d his love for hockey at plays,\ stated Ford. \Coach the age of five when his dad, Moore has impressed on all of us Steve; got him interested,. \My the importance of continually dad played a lot of sports, but he working hard to raise our indi- neverplayed hockey,\ said Ford. vidual games so that we can be- \I'm not sure why he picked come complete players. He could hockey, but he's the one that got have come in with a passive atti- nie started.\ tude, but he didn't He wanted Steve Ford played middle line- me to improve the defcnsi ve as- backerandoffensiveguard for his pectofmy game for my benefit. high school football team, swam, and for the benefit of the team.· threw the shot and d-isc in track He pushed me to be a !Detter over- and had a professional tryout as a all player and I'm glad he did.' pitcher following his senior year. According to Moore, Ford has He introduced Chris to hockey improved his defensive game and because it was really tfle only isabigpartofthereason·whythe sport available to what he de- Dutchmen have Jed the country scribed as a very active six-year in tea1n defense, allowing 2.3 old. goals a contest. \Our town of DePew, NY, \For all that Chris has accom- didn't offer a lot for the younger plished offensively, he probably kids,\ ex,plained the elder Ford. made his biggest contributioi1 \Just hockey and that was on an against Clarkson in the final two outside rink Once Chris got minutes with a hackcheck that started, though, he loved ,it. Be- saved the game (a 2-1 Dutchman sides playing, we'd set up shoot- victory on November 23, their ing drills with plastic sticks and first wi1; ever over Clarkson),\ pucks in our cellar.\ said Moore. \That single play ei- Chris, who also played soccer evated him to a different level in in high school, graduated from the eyes ofth\e coaching staff and Greece Athena High School as his the teain. hockey team's all-time leading As 011e of 13 seniors who will scorer. graduate this June, Ford is not He also played for the gold only lookit1g to help Union so- medal-winning Western Team in lidify its place in the ECAC this the Empire State Games and season, hutto help putthe Dutch- men in a position to be competi- tive for years to come. \This program ;s headed in a positive direction,\ Ford said. \Union is already recognized for its outstanding academics and is also becominglmown for its com- petitive col:lege hockey program. When we win it brings even more exposure because no one expects us to win. Everyone loves an un- derdog.\ Ford does not feel that thelack of athl€t1c scholarships will hinder Un1on 's progress on the ICe. \A small school' like Union ap- peals to a lot of people,\ he ex- plained. \That is one of the rea- sons I c~me here. I liked the fact that classes were smaller. Union ofters enough to offsetthe schol- arship money. It has a great cam- pus, a great tradition and a solid academic standing. The money can on I y go so far, then after that, there are a I ot o fothers factors that are more important.\ \The scholarsllip schools are going to get whomever they want,\ Ford co11tinued. \'But there are more than enough good players out there to make up a good, competitive team espe- cially with a guy I ike Stan coach- ing them.\ With his place in the Dutchmen's history book secure, Ford is looking forward to t11e remainder of theis successful hockey season. \Being the first Divisioa I player at Union to reach the I 00- point plateau is certainly among .the highlights ofrny career,\ said Ford. \I ;vc dedicated that accom- plishment to my parents, Steve and Arlene, to tell them how much I appreciate everything they've done for 1ne in my ca- reer.\ A biology major,Ford hopes to get into some ki11d of research someday. But for his immediate future, he is looking to help Union get far into the ECAC playoffs, graduate, and then play profes- sional hockey. Despite the ups and downs of his college career, Ford has no regrets about his decision to at- tend Union . \Coming to Union was the best thing I could have done,\ he says flatly. \I've been successful in hockey, successful in school and I've met a lot of great people; people who I' II be friends with the rest of my lite.\ Skating Dutchwomen Recover From Their Losing Streak by Jody Mousseau Sports Writ~r Last week brought mixed re- sults for the Skating Dutch women when they fell to Troy Academy 6-2, but beat Skidmore 7-2. The loss to Troy Academy on Wednesday, February 12 was an upsetting loss for the Dutchwornen.. Arriving at Troy hoping to escape their three game losing streak, the Skating Dutchwomen failed to play the hockey that they needed to grasp the win. The first goal of the game was scored by Leandra Collier and assisted by Whitney Davis at 3:21 of the first period. Troy retali- ated with two goal!>. Union bounced back with Kristeen Hoffinan's goal ~ssisted by Sarah Moss at 13:50 ofthesame period. Union's successful scoring at- tempts stopped there, with the last four goals scored l>y rroy. Troy Academy took 29 sllots on net, opposed to Union's ltS. Lauren Locke defended tll.e Union goal with 23 saves. 111e Skating Dutchwomen's loss was greatly attributed to their lack: of domi- nation in the neutral :zone. Women's hockey ~resident and tri-captain Hana Yam ash ita com- mented, \This was sucll a frustrat- ing game for us. We definitely did not play at the t\clp of our game. We could've e:asily been the better team, but we weren't that afternoon. Hopefully we'll put this game behind us and play the way we really can from now on.\ The Skating Dutchwomen proved what kind of team they are on Saturday, February 15 when they took a victory over Skidmore 7-2, with Union dominating ev- ery aspect of the game. After the first period, the scoreboard reflected 4-0 in Union ;s favor. During the sec- ond period, Skidmore came out much more prepared for Union, holding Union to a 4-0 game in a scoreless period. However, Skidmore gave Union a scare when they scored two quick goals in the third period, but Union took their secure win back with three goals scored in the last minutes ofthe game. Union's goal scor- ers included Hana Yamashita and Sarah Wilbur, each scoring two; and Kristeen Hoffman, Kirsten Owad, and Alison Powers each scoring one. Union took 63 shots on goal, as opposed to Skidmore's 25. Lauren Locke made 23 saves for Union. Union took the victory over Skidmore due to their domination of the neutral zone, a powerful offense that crashed the net with more than twice as many shots as Skidmore, and a defense that stopped all that Skidmore had to offer. The game on Saturday against Skidmore ex em pi i tied the hockey thatthe Union women are capable of playing, giving them their first win in five games. Union forward Laura Felton commented, \We hadn't had a win in four games. I think we felt like we had to prove.to ourselves that we could still play hockey, and there's no team we wanted to beat more than Skidmore. The combination oftho5e two things showed up on the scoreboard.\ The Union women's hockey team stands 6-7-1 , with a 6-2 record against club teruns. Union will travel to battle Boston Uni- versity on Friday at 5PM, and will take on Sacred Heart at Achilles Rink at 1:30PM on Saturday.

Men's Hockey Continued from Page 20 Knowing that a play~offberth in en a breakaway.. The goalie Dartmouth was applying some The shut-.out weeke.nd is could be achieved with a Union went down, and 1 put it over his pressure on Koenig. Ford was Union's first since the 193'8~39 win ai1d a loss by eitherSt. shoulder,\saidCampbell. ha.·ppy· thathi.sgoalmea:nt.so·.m.e- s u·· 'g··72 d eason. . · mon s · ·- . - rec9F · Chris Ford found a rebound of Lawrence or Yale, the Dutchmen Dartmouth was able to p·ut thing for the team as well as for places them in a fifth ;place tie a .John Sicinskishot lying in front took the ice Saturday night some pressure on Koenig in the himself. ''I was kind of worried with Princeton and Colgate and of the net and fired it home togive againstthe Dartmouth Big Green. third period, managing 13 shots; that I would get an assist on the cl.inches an ECAC playoff berth the Dutchmen a 2-0 lead and to After a slow first period, in which but Koenig was .again flawless, seventh goal in a 7-0 blowout for:the third time in Union's Di- register the 99th point of his ca- the Dutchmen did not come out stopping a total of 42 shots. I'm h&ppy that it was a goal that vision 1 history. In additjon, reer. Union had another chance with the same fire as they did the Union increased its lead to 2-0 we needed t0 secure a lead,\ he . Union's 16-.10-2 overall record to score just a few minutes later, sets a school record for wins in as Charlie Moxham brought the ·Division I. I-I:ead Coach Stan puck down the right wing boards. Moore was ex.cited abop.t the However, with a Catamount Union performance during the defenseman whacking at him weekend. ''I'm very pleased and from behind, the puck slithered happy for the players. I'm very jqst wide of the left post !)leased that they can not only The third period saw Vermont . boast abOIJt a playoff ~pot; but try to get back into the game. but they.can boastthe career number goaltender Trevor Koenig and the · of wins by a Union [Divisjof) I] rest ofthe Union team would not ·team. It's an importantrnil.e- allow it With time running out · stone,\ he said. Ford echoed the and Thomas at the bench for an sentiments of many members on extra skater, the Catamounts at- the squad by, stating, ''It feels tempted three shots which were i great.. After the last two years, all blocked by Union forwards, j it's a great feelif:lg to have 1t defensemen, and Koenig. As the . i wrapped up so early. The tast two final buzzer sounded, the Dutch- ! years we have been fighting to get '. men skated away with a huge 2:<-0 ,... in.'' victory and a 34-save shut-out for The Dutchmen enterta:i n Koenig. ·. Cornell and Colgate ne}(,t week- The·coachingstaff and the team en.d .in w~at is the final regular feltthatthe gamewasnearly flaw- season weekend as wellassenior less. Prentice said, \Every win is recognition weekendatAehilles. a big win, but we really had to /Inion~,. Andrew Will wind~ upf<w a .~/ap.,holaxc.iimithe Vermo1il Cal amounts (photo hy Rick U.drwer 17t} The game against Colgate will be wo~ha~furiliiswin. It~akes ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tcle~~donilieE~ire.Sports it just more special. Like coach previous night, Union opened the when Ford sent the puck into the said. Tlae Big Greet! mu:stt(red Network on Saturdaynight. [Stan] Moore said, it was an al- scoring in the second period. The crease. Sicinski wastheretopoke some offense in tl1e ol osing most flawless game.\ Dtttchme11 took advantage of a it home, giving the Dutchmen a t:ninute, with Almonon the bench Between the Pipes . Trevor. Koenig's 93;8 save percentage and 1 .. 91 goals against average are both tht: bestinDivi- sio_n I. Union's team de.fense is allowing ·2.25 goals per game, ·also the besfin Division I. Craig Reckin played in the I OOth game of his career'againstVermont. Koenig felt that the Dutchtnet1 poor clearing pass ·in the 2-0 lead. The assist gives Ford for a sixth skater, but Union was came into the game more· pre- Dartmouth zone, as Prentice I 00 points in his Union career, able to withstand the attackgiv- pared' for the Catamounts then threaded a pass to Campbell, who making him the first player in ing Koenig a 2-0 .shut-out and they had been for other tea1-ns in tired it past freshman goaltender Union's six year Division I his- extending his shut-ottt streak to the past. \[The blocked shots] Eric Almon to give Union a 1-0 tory to attain the goal and the 14th · 173 n1inutes and;34 secoi1ds. The wereagreatindicationofhowthe lead. \[ was starting to playeril1schoolhistorytoreach shut-outisKoenig'.sfourthofthe guys came prepared to play:,'' he back check. All of a sudden, the the Century Club. The goal. came season and sixth ofhisthtee~year said. puckjust[c<une]outtome. I was\ at an important-·time, as careec Regular Season Ends Strongly For Trac~·At·Ila.milt9n Even the .Coaches were Wrong ... by Jason Everett Staff Writer The Union College Men'sand Women's Track teams traveled to Hamilton College Saturday to compete in the Hamilton College Open. Leading the way for the men were Co-Captain Dave Riggi and freshman Bryan Roy. who both finished first in their respec- tive events. Riggi wo11 handily in the 55 meter with a time or 6 73 after a 6.89 in the prelimi- naries. Roy won the tnple jump with a leap of I 3.05 meters Coach Larry Cottrell deemed both perfonnances \outstanding.\ The men also had several sec- ond place finishes-Jason Jennings in the high jump (1 78m), David Northrup in the pole vault (3 05m ), and Co-Cap- tain Jay Goldberg in the 3000m (9:31 ). The men's team results are as follows: Weight Throw, Jenne! Royal took 4th place with 1 0.52, Peter Mody took 8th place with 9.48, Jared Sandman took 9th place with 9.41, Damon Bizzell took I Oth place with 8.88, and Don Tam took 1 I th place with 8.27; Shot Put, Jermel Royal took 4th place with I 2.61 , Ben Blackwood to(}k 7th place with 11.41, Peter Mody took 8th place with 11.14, Don Tam took 9th place with 10.28, .Jan~d Sandman took I 1 th place with 9.46, and Damon Bizzell took 12th place with 8.85; Long Jump, Jason Jennings took 3rd place with 6.15, Bryan Roy took 4th place with 6.04, Mike Martili took 5th place with 5.62, Will Marshall took 6th . ' p,lace with 5.55, Kevin Abessi took 7th place with 5.09, and coming in 8th was Jesse Prisco FOUL: Triple Jump, Bryan Roy took I st place with 13.05. and Mike Martin took 5th place with 12.13: High Jump, Jason .Jennings took 2nd place with 1.78: Pole Vault David Northrup took 2nd place with 3 05: 55 meter. David Riggi took l st place with 6 73: 200 meter. Will Marshall took 3rd with 2440: 400 meter. Travis Reap took 6th place with 55.68, Ed Dombrowski took' 7th place with 57 82: 800 meter. Jay Goldberg took 7th place with 2:09 63, and Kenny Scott took 8rh place with 210 32: t 500 meter, Nathan Childs took 4th place with 4:3437, and Alex Militello took 7th place with 5:12.26: 3000 meter, Jay Goldberg took 2nd place with 9:31.90: 1600-meter Relay, Bryan Roy ( 56.18), Travis Reap (56.46), Mike Martin (57 .14 ), and Kenny Scott ( 56.4 7) took 4th place with 3:46.46. Despite the fact that the meet was non-scoring. the women had perhaps their best team effort of the season, which included sev- eral outstanding efforts. and state qualifiers. The lone first place finisher for the women ,was sophomore Jessica Goveia who returned to competition after a three week hiatus. Saying that it · ''feels great to be back,\ Goveia proceeded io rum away ;.vith the women's 1 ODO meter.-winning by five seconds in 3: 13.8;3, a time which qua:lified her for states. Afterwards Coach Cottrel1 com- . . . mented that he is \looking for a great performance [from Goveia] at States [in the 1000 m·eter an·d in the 4x400 meter Relay].'' Senior Sara Mcintosh contin- ued her torrid running finishing second in the 3000 meter in a time of 12-:0 I. Sophomore Katie MacDowell ra11 a personal best in the 1500 meter to finish sixth in 5: I4.83. This was MacDowell's third personal best ln recent weeks in this event, tive seconds faster than last week.· The Women's results are as follows:WeightThrow. Michelle Woodw;1rd took 5th place with 9 65, Jayne Seekins took 9th place with 6. 74, and Hillary Lon- don took lOth place with 6,52; Shot Put, Jayne Seekins took 5th place with 8.18, Michelle Woodward took 8th place with 7.37, Stefanie Speanburg took 9th place with 7.33, Hillary London took 1Oth place with 7 .19, and Michelle Vanderloon took 13th place with 5.37; 55 meter, Cequyna Moore took 7th place with 10.40 ( I0.58p); 55-.meter Hurdles, Emily Beck took 2nd place with 9.97 (9.89p); 200 meter, Sara Gower took 4th place with 30.31, Emily Beck took 6th place with 31.09, Brenna Maguire took 7th place with 31. 72, Daniella Chiulli took 8th place with 32.35~ 400 meter, Sara Gower took 7th place with I :09.26; 800meter, Molly Hood took 7th place w..ith 2:50.65, Jen Roberts took 8th place with 3:16.58, and Maura Woewssner took 9th place with 3:17.50; 1000 mete~, Jessica Goveia took 1st place with 3:13.~3~ l5~Bmeter, Katie Maepo)Velltook 6th Rface with 5:14.83, and Irene )Can took 9th place with 5: 52.43; 3:000 by Frank Rossi Sports Edithr · meter, Sara Mcintosh ·too:k 2nd In what can only be called a place with 12:01.22, aqd Arny wacky season in the ECAC Marko' took 6th p!'~ce. ·with league of men':s hockey, most I 8:46.04; HiOO-rnetet Relay, prognosticators were way off on Sara Gower (70.16\. Dan.ieJia .theirpr.edi~tions about where the Chiulli (75.26), BrennaMaguire various teams oftheECAC would (69.3), and Jessica Go-veia {68.22) finish.. too.k3rdplacewith4:4l05. _The most surprisitig mis- This meet concluded the regu- guesses were by the coaches of lar season for both teams. \The those ECAC teams. While they State Champion~hips will be held were close.\':'ith-some teams' po- next weekend at St. Lawrence. sitions, the .coaches picked Union Lookiqg torward to states,Coach to finish llth on the season Cottrell believes that \the teatn (which wbuld ;have meant no willb_e well ~~preset1ted~\a;1dtl;at._- playoffs fo.r:: 'tl:ie Dutchmen). ·''[we] will dowhatweean.\ The . What every coach realized early tentative entries for states are; for . on was that this is not atl average th~ M~n, Dav~Riggi w-ilf;LJlithe s~asm1 in the ECAC. · ,55 met~r and,20()c.meter, Jenne! Next week, The Concordiensis Ri;lyal w1ilthrow §ll~tPilt, Ja~on . ~ill bring you a listofplayoffsce- .!ennin,gs~- .Wil.I Marshall,. Bryan , n{lrtos. In the meantime;, the fol- Roy:-williR~€r \*~ L(lag ,Jump, • lowing ¢hart Shows where the B.ryai1· Roy\ will eriter the .Triple. coaches pickeq the ECAC teams J qmp, Jay Goldb~rg: \~Ill JlU)1;the · f~ finish al}d where they ~ctually ~soo metet ai1d JOOO meter; . ar~with two. weekends left: Travis. Reap,. Bryan Roy, Mike Team Guess Actual Martin, and Kenny. Sc9tt wifl run Cornell 6th 1st the 4.x400-mete·r Relay; Nate Clarkson 2nd 1st Childs,; }\e11ny Scott~ J.ay Rensselaer 3rd 3rd Goldberg, and Travis Reap will Vennont lst 4th run the Distance Medley Relay; Union 11th 5th for the Women, Emlly Beck will Princetoi1 6th 5th enter the 55-nieter Hurdles~ Jes- Colgate 5th 7th sic'a Goveia. \~il r nln the '1000 Harvard 3rd 7th meter, Carolyn Cieslowski will St. Lawrence 4th 9th enter the High Jump, Michelle Dartmouth 1Oth I Oth Woodward will.elltet theW eight Yale 12th ll th Throw, and Brenna MagLtir~Jes- Brown 8th 12th sica Goveia; Daniella Chiulli, and foil Information Courtesy: Sara Gower will fuu the 4x400- . (J.S. Co/leg~ Hockey Online meter Relay.. · '· (http://uscoilegehockey.com) -··· --- .. ·-------·--·-. --- --···------·---------·-----..l

Sports - · 'IDll' illmtcort'tiwsis • February 20, 1997 • Pag~ 19 I have a rather ominous task in front ofn1e as I sit down to type this article .. I overtake th·is space of newspaper once inhabited by Chris Leone. Chris was a great · reporter, and I know that it will take titne for me to equal that greatness. ****** Auto racing to me has to be the most bori~g .sport to watch, l can- notbelievethattheyc.lassify cars going in circles for four hours a \sport.\ Yesterday ofcourse, for all who missed it, was the Day- ton 500. 1 was flipping through the ·channels, and I came across this race. What really surprises me is that these things sell out! I mean, there was. not an empty seat in the house. Of course, there were those ever decorative mo- bile homes that no auto race would be complete without. I have never seen a more blatant waste ofgasoline anywhere, ex-· cept of co~..Jrsewhen l drive ~m au .... tomobile! When you think about it, how much gas does a raGing care use during one of these events? The amount of petrol, as our silly friends across the pond call it, that is used in these events could have much better alternate uses.· For one, there could be more tnohster truck rallies with everybody's favo-rite., Tntckasorous Rex {You just have to love it when he deroolishes those cheesy American made cars). · Another thing about auto rac- lngthatniakestne:wantto vomit is the overuse of advertising and comtnercialization. There are at least tlve ads for motor o'if, beer, food, or wallpaper on each car. ***'*** , Hail to the Chief? -Anyone · w:ho attended Saturday night's hockey game against Dartmouth 'must have seen ouresteerned and glorious leader, President Roger Hull. I was surprised to see the Prez at the game, not only because I did not think that he knew where the rink was (he just knows where he's going to move it), but that he was actually coming out to support Union College Skating Dutchmen. I was told that Presi- dent Hull is a Dartmouth alum, but we all kt1awwho he was root- ing for. Union, right? Perhaps President Hull. was looking arc:mnd the rink and 1n~pecting it firsthand'so he can make an edu- cated decision about the. future of Achilles Rink. But I do not want to start arty rum~rs. ****** I would like to give a heartfelt congratulations te all the Union College Skating Dutchmen. It wasthefirsttime since the 1938- ,39 seaSon that they have swept an ECAC weekend. With the vic- tory on Saturday, the Dutchlnen secured a playoffspot, and: can- not finish worse than ninth place. Good job guys, you deserve it. Also, a hearty congratulations to Chris Ford, who with a goal against Vennont and. an assist against Dartmouth, became a member ofthe century club. He is the first Dutchmen to score 100 po.ints completely on the Division I leveL Come out an support your Skat- ing Dutchmen for the final homestand of the season when they play Cornell on Friday night and Colgate on Saturday. Coach Stan Moore, in his first season as head coach,. has proven that he can get the job done. The play- ers respect him and he gets there- sults that were expected of him when he came to Union. ****>I<* I truly think that besides the people that live in Philadelphia (and we all feel sorry that they do), nobody likes Eric Lindros. I have never seen a guy that big be afraid to hit. He rarely goes into thecotnersfbrthe loosepuck, and God knows that he would not pass the biscuit if his life depended on it. This season has been one of tunhoil for young Eric, so weal! have to .sympathizewith him. He has missed a ton of games due to nuinerous \injuries.'\ Sunday night against Pitts- burgh, Lindros was in the wann- ups, but he took off before the game started. Lindros should get the vote tor biggest skirt in the league. He never plays through pain, and with the money he is getting, he should play with a hammer lodged in his temple. The best move Quebec (now the Colorado Avalanche) ever did was getting rid ofthat cry baby. ****** Gretzky Watch: Eighteen games without a goal for the New York Rangers. Wayne, can you say, \Tithe to retire?\ Women's Hoops Slips Before Homestretch by JosiJ Adams Sports Writer The Union Dutchwomen Bas- ketball team continued their downward spiral this weekend when they traveled to William Smith and Hamilton Colleges. The Dutchwomen dropped both games, losing to Hamilton on Fri- day, 63·55, and falling to the un- defeated William Smith team, 81- 39. After the dust settled the Dutchwomen 's record fell to 4- 15 overall, and 1-8 in the UCAA. William Smith currently has 22- 0 record, and a 44-game home- winning streak In Friday night's contest, Union and Hamilton battled in a tight first half, with the scored tied 24- 24 atthe intennission. In the sec- Men'sHockey 2/21 Cornell 7:30 2/22 Colgate 7:00 Women's Basketball 2/21 Skidmore 6:00 2/22 Rensselaer 4:00 Men's Basketball 2/21 Skidmore 8:00 2/22 Rensselaer 6:00 ond half; he wever, Hamilton was able to meunt art of±ensiye attack offensive attack for the Dutchwomen~ scoring 13 and 14 Hitz were the only two players scoring in double t1gures for the Dutchwomen. Hitzhad 10 points along with six rebounds, five of them on the offensive end. Tanya Capparello had 5 assists as well as 5 turnovers. TheDutchwomen continued their poor shooting from the field, hitti11g only 22 percent of their shots. They did however, continue their strong free-throw shooting , going 11- 17 (64 percent) fr01n the charity stripe. Sophomore Mary Scl1ultz slwots afoul ~!lot. (Aaro11 Braunstein I TC) Amy H.itz contim1es to rewrite the record books here at Union. She is currently only tO rebounds away trom tieing Robin Romer's career rebounding record of932. Recently, Hitz became the third Dutchwoman to join the 1,000- point club. She now has I ,058 points, and is third on the all-time scoring list. She can also surpass Leah Oliveiri for the Dutch women scoring lead if she outscores Oliveiri by sixteen points in the final three games. and pull away, outscoring Union 39-31 in the second half. Leah Schultz led the Women's Hockey 2/21 @Boston U. 5:00 2/22 Sacred Heart 1:30 Track 2/21 @Fredonia 9:00 Swimming 2/20 States 7:00 2/21 States 7:00 2/22 States 7:00 points, respectively. Schultz was 0-2 behind the three-point arc, and Amy Dougherty hit her lone trey attempt. Oliveiri also collected 11 rebounds. Senior Amy Hitz also came in with 11 boards, and contributed 9 points to the Dutchwomen' s losing ef- fort. The Dutchwomen shot 37 percent from the floor and hit 57 percent of their free-throws. Schultz had 4 assists but also committed 14turnovers. In Saturday's game against 22-0 William Smith, Union put together a lackluster effort and fell, 81-39. The women were outscored 48-19 in the first half, and they tried to mounta come- back in the second, only being outscored 33-20. Oliveiti poured in 21 points and col- lected 12 rebounds. Oli:veiri and This weekend is a very impor- tant one tor the Dutchwomen. The final three games ofthe sea- son are coming up this weekend at Memorial Fieldhouse. Tues- day, the women played Williams College, in a game that missed press time. The women tip off against Skidrrlore on Friday and RPI on Saturday night. Saturday night will be Amy Hitz's, Amy Dougherty's, and Tanya Capparello's final game as Shooting Dutchwomen. Shooting Dutchwomen Career Records ScoritJg Rehoundin!{ 1 )Robin Romer ('92) 1,738 1} Robin Romer ('92) 932 . 2) Andrea Pagnozzi ('94) 1 ,324 2) Amy Ritz ('97) 922 3)Amy Hitz ('97) 1,058 3) Mich. Kleinhaus ('94) 644 · 4) Cay Lynch ('84) 992 4) Julie Miller C84) 556 Blocks- I) Barb Weisinger('87) 184 w- 2) Amy Dougherty ('97) 134 Intra~nural Update Sunday & Tuesday A L~ague Division I Hoop.s Wins DreamTeam 8 Wild Turkey 6 Beta 5 FIJI 5 Bomb Squad I Sig Phi 0 Losses 0 2 3 4 1 9 Sunday & Tuesday A League Division II Hoops Team Wins Losses TDChiA 6 2 Vulgar 5 2 NoGood 4 3 Big Bailers 4 4 Blue & Gold 3 S Psi 0 l 7 Moruiay & Thursday B League Division I Hoops Team Carboard Devil Dogs AEPi Do A Dance Lodge 2nd Fl. West Phi Delt Wins 5 3- 3 2 2 2 I Losses 0 2 3 3 3 3 4 Monday & Thursday B League DM.sionll Hoop.s Team Wins Losses Sig Chi B 6 I TDChi B 6 I Busdrivers 4 2 Fans of Deans 3 3 Thayer 3 4 Indiana I 5 Phi Sig 0 7 Women's Broomba/1 Team Ice A Toners Sweepers La Femme's Wins 2 I 0 Losses 0 I 2 Sunday Men'.s Broomhall Team Wins Losses Swan's Dogs 3 0 P. Spencer 3 0 SigChi 2 I AE Pi I 2 Goodfellas 0 3 Sigma Phi 0 3 Note: Each team has one tie. Wednesday Men's Broomball Team -\- Hector SigChi A TDChi A Phi Delt Flying Goats Psi U Wins 4 3 2 2 I 0 Losses 0 1 2 2 3 4 Thursday Men's Broomball Team 3rd Fl. West 2nd Fl. West Whales Psi U Phi Sig No Good .. Wins 4 3 3 2 0 0 Losses 0 1 I 2 4 4 Monday Night Men's Hockey Team SoCo FIJI Psi U Cornish Hens Sigma Chi Lodge Wins ---- 3 3 2 2 2 0 Losses 1 1 2 2 2 4 Standings C ourtsey of Intramua/ Director More results in the next edition ofConcordiensi --

Union Blanks UVM & Dartmouth, Clinches· Playoffs Chris Ford Gets lOOih Point, Trevor Koenig First in Country by Jonathan Gasthalter Sports Edit9r The Skating Dutchmen, tied fer sixth place, came into the weekend against Vermont Fri- day night and Dartmouth Satur- day night knowing that two wins would have the potential to push tllem into the playoffs. Having come out flat against a Clarkson team last Friday night and then rebounding against a lower St Lawrence team, the Dutchmen knew that they had their work cut out for them The V crmont Catamounts, ranked sixth in the nation and in a four-way tie for first place in the ECAC, came into Achilles rink with three pre-season Hobey ~aker Candidates. Its famed \French Connection,\ featuring Martin St. Louis, Eric Per-in, and goaltender Tim Tho- mas. Union had shut-down the <'French Connection\ at Gutterson Field House in early November but were unable to break through the pads of Tho- mas and lost a close game 1-0. In what many thought would be a tight-checking defensive- styled game, the teams took the ice in front of 1,820 at Achilles Rink. Perrin and St. Louis came ()[f ofthe opening face-off and broke right through the Dutch- men defense, causing Seabrook Satterlond to take a penalty at :45. After killing the power- play, the Dutchmen began to 1ake control. Just over four min- utes into the period, the Dutch- men got their first scoring chance as Assistant Captain {ireg Buchanan set up a Jay Prentice one-timer right in the slot. Thomas slid over and just made the save to thwart the Union attempt. Just 90 seconds later, with Simon Trernblay in the penalty box for hitting from behind, Prentice 'beat Thomas with a slap-shot through the pads, giving Union a 1-0 lead. After that it was all Union. Perrin and St. Louis were kept in check all night as Buchanan, Ryan Campbell, Bill Moody, and the rest of the Dutchmen squad took them out of the play with their hard hitting. \You want to be aware when they're on the ice. It's no secret-you want to try to be physical on those two guys. The more licks you can get on those guys, the less effective they are,\ said Buchanan, who played arguably his best game of his injury-short- ened season. The second stanza began with the Dutchmen continuing to at- tack Perrin and St. Louis and winning the one-on-one battles along the boards. With J. C. Ruid .in the penalty box for interfer- ence, Union took a 2-0 lead. . . _ .. _ _ _ . . _ . _ :. ~· :_ C:O.n!inf!q/p{ig~t_ l~ .. - Mark Szucs Opponents Sink Shots and Dutchmen With On,lyFour Games To Go, a Weekend.Sweepls a Necessity by Frank Rossi Sports Editol' If you took a quick ;peal< ~t tbe : Union Men's Basketball sh0roting · percentage from this week<end~ you would swear that tl1e J}utch- . men had a great weei<e11d. Un- fortunately, the Dutch!tnen'l'l()st 10 ·the Hamilton College Co11timn,.. tals on Friday night, 91l·6~ . .and · they also lost to the Hol:l[lrt ·st~t~­ . men in agoodmatchllp,. 7'9-56~ A few weeks ago, 1J11io:n de- feated Hamilton at the M~If1Grial Fieldhouse in a majQr upset. \Tile Dutchtrten knew that g()iilg ]n:to Hamilton and pullin~ off a sec- , ondupset would beeverrtol:lgller than in the first game: In the first half, Unio11 ~h<>-t 52 pewe.nt from t~e fie! d to Hamilton's 48.1 'pe:rcellt, but : Onion was down 43-JO. Th,e rea- , son was simple as Unio11 sh<>tllo free throws in the first half, while , the Continentals shot l2 f;()r l6 from the stripe. In the sec()ndllalf, · Union bettered their sh.o<itin,g per- centage to 56.7 percent for tlle half, but Hamilton als() r-aised their accuracy. This.,. o()lilbiined with another half of inb.al:anced free throw shooting, l~dto al!lothe~ 13-pointdeficit in·these()()ntd tialf. · · . Tbe 26 ... point J.o~.s. \'WitS ,ex- plained by l'leacl Coach Robert rowly. Saturday, Union visited a countered with an incredible · Montana in 1\vo p~rts_ First, Mon• Hobart team which is desparately 61.9•percent shooting-accuracy tana said, \Hami]t()n did a good trying to return to the .500mark rate. Hatch ended up with 20 . ;iob of getting; tile tempo the way this season. points for Hobart {six-for-six . they wanted it. We did well the The pre-s.easo!J ranked States- from the floor), and teammate first I 0-11minui1es ()ftl1e game, menjumped outto a 1'6-point lead Eric Nelson led the team with 23 · but then the t:ernpo chang.ed.\ ·afterthefirsthalfofplayasJohn points. Unionattemptedtousethesame Hatchshotaperfectfive-.for-fi:ve With two weeks left in tlie delibetately•paceli offense they tro1n outside tl1e three~pCJint arc Du~chmen' s basketb. all seaso~ 1 used against St. La'Wrenee, bilt in the half. Coach Montana Union (5-16, 3 .. 7 UCAA) sttll Hamilton e'<ecutedtl\eir offense stated. \We wer-e una:bletogetto has two important leaguegam;es and .defense to their ()Wn I iking. their best perimeter shooter in the to play. This .Friday, Skidmore Coach Montana ~list> pointed out first half. Wehada.three~to-four visits the Memorial FieldhoLJse that the ditf~rentia1 in free-throw tninutespaa when-we1et the game at 8PM to try to force a split 6f and three~point sh()oti.ng made a getaway irHhe first.\ \ -' . t11e season series. Saturday at worldofdifferer~ceintheend re- In the second ban: tlie Dutch- 6PM, Utt.ion fac.es their arch- . suIt. Hamil to11 attempted 26 1nen again put together-a gallant nemesisatthe Fieldhouse as RPI three-point ~h()ts and 31 free comeback atte1ttpt. A trine·point travels clown Route 7. RPI is thtows,.con1pated toUnion's 14 inthesectindhaJ.f,·Union\dimbed another teatn trying to go 1.1 . three-point atten·tpts an.d .five free to withh1 tburpoi:nts·ofthe States• against .~tie Dutchmen this sea- throws. men. With 1:10 rein'<liilirt!rin the son. Sophomore RoO, Groelz led the game, the Dutchmen's deficit was Coach Montana is cautiously Dutchmen with l 7 ·points, and only six points. The Statesmen optomistic about the weekend. freshman Zena W()ldeyesus, were too much for the Dutchrnen, \They're going to be competi- Union's second-lead.ing scorer of hewever, as they won by 13 tive games as we're ail some- the game; chipped .in ten points. points. where in the same tier of the However, 1lu-y could not out- Rob Groelz led.the Dutchmen league. We could secure fifth pace the HatnfltollContinentals, · with 17 points for the s.econd- place if we beat RPI .\ R.ob who had t\vo players with 26 straight night,he'lping to increase TeCarr added, ''1 think we can points each flatlililton 's Kevin his average of over 14 points per pick up four wins if we play th~ · Larson was one ()fthose players, game. Jimior Rob TeCatr was the way 'we did 'in the middle of the as he conv~rted fivethre'e-point second-leadingscorer,adding 16 season.'' shots. points from the bench. TeCarr Next Tuesday, Union faces The Hobart ga1ne a few weeks was four-for-five ftolh behind the Middlebury at the Fieldhouseat ago represe11ted. ()tle of Union's thr~e-:-point stri.pe. Again, t11e /PM in a non-league game. It iargest:colrtebac:kst>fthedecade; Dutchmen shot reasonably well w.Ht be bwadcast live on. :but Unio.nstilllostthegamenar¥ (43.4·percent),hutthe&tatesmen . WRUC. . .~ ........... ·' . •• !'\ ...... - - - ..... - ~ ... - ... - -- ~.- - -·- .... ,. .. ~ - - .. ~ ... \'· • .... __ ,., .... • -- - ,;- ,,-,•\ .... :·' -···. ,, - ' ... -·~·-. ;-- - I ..... I -· 1 see cia) Scl der em wa am the by of wh ret1 de1 Cat Wi1 no Sc on wl est gh w ca1 .. -a.t'i to stc n th: wj to be to se oJ w hi th 01 ]

F I:Jr.tMlll llillli!IR 'C'ZIIIUMIIIMI ff ~ ....... ,. 'W -·· Union Blanks UVM & Dartmouth, Clinches Playoffs Chris Ford Gets 1 OOth Point, Trevor Koenig First in Country by Jonathan Gasthaher Sports Editor The SkatinQ Dutchmen. tied lllr '-l\th rl.il\(' l\ 111\ll tiJ,· \\ cckcnd .tg,tin\t VL·rnwnt 1-'ri- Ja, night ~mJ D~1rtnwuth Satur· da\ 111~111 kl111\1111t! thall\lu\ 111'> '' t~L;I,! h,l\ l. tht·l', 'l'l\itli.tll•• l'll'.l1 them into the playoffs llav1ng come out tlat against a Clarkson team last Friday night and then rebound mg. agamst a IO\ver St Lawrence team. the Dutchmen knew that thev had the1r work cut out li.1r them The Vermont Catamounh. ranked sixth in the natton and in a four-way ttc for first place Ill the LC/\C. came into /\chilies rink with three pre-season I lohey Baker Candidates Its famed \French Connection.\ featuring Martin St Louis. Eric Pcr·in. and goaltender Tim Tho- mas Union had shut-down the \French Connection\\ at Gutterson Field House in early November but were unable to break through the pads of Tho- mas and lost a close game 1-0 In what many thought would be a tight-checking defensive- styled game. the teams took the ice in front of 1.820 at Achilles Rink. Perrin and StLouis came off of the opening face-off and broke right through the Dutch- men defense, causing Seabrook Satterlund to take a penalty at 45. After killing the power- play, the Dutchmen began to takecontrol. Justoverfourmin- utes into the period, the Dutch- men got their first scoring chance as Assistant Captain Greg Buchanan set up a Jay Prentice one-timer right in the slot. Thomas slid over and just made the save to thwart the Union attempt. Just 90 seconds later, with Simon Tremblay in the penalty box for hitting from behind, Prentice beat Thomas with a slap-shot through the pads, giving Union a 1-0 lead. After that it was all Union. Perrin and St. Louis were kept in check all night as Buchanan, Ryan Campbell, Bill Moody, and the rest of the Dutchmen squad took them out ofthe play with their hard hitting. \You want to be aware when they're on the ice. It's no secret-you want to try to be physical on those two guys. The more licks you can get on those guys, the less effective they arc,\ said Buchanan, who played arguably his best game of his injury-short- ened season. The second stanza began with the Dutchmen continuing to at- tack Perrin and St Louis and winning the one-on-one battles along the boards. With J.C. Ruid in the penalty box for interfer- ence, Union took a 2-0 lead. - ----------- Continued page 18 Opponents Sink Shots and Dutchmen With Only Four Games To Go, a Weekend Sweep Is a Necessity by Frank Rossi Sports Editor If you took a quick peak at the Union Men's Basketball shooting percentage from this weekend, you would swear that the Dutch- men had a great weekend. Un- fortunately, the Dutchmen lost to the Hamilton College Continen- tals on Friday night, 94-68, and they also lost to the Hobart States- men in a good matchup, 79-66. A few weeks ago, Union de- feated Hamilton at the Memorial Fieldhouse in a major upset. The Dutchmen knew that going into Hamilton and pulling otT a sec- ond upset would be even tougher than in the first game. In the first half, Union shot 52 percent from the field to Hamilton's 48.1 percent, but Union was down 43-30. The rea- son was simple as Union shot no free throws in the first half, while the Continentals shot 12 for 16 from the stripe. In the second half, Union bettered their shooting per- centage to 56.7 percent for the half, but Hamilton also raised their accuracy. This. combined with another half of imbalanced free throw shooting, led to another 13-point deficit in the second 1-ialf. The 26-point loss was ex- plained by Head Coach Robert Montana in two parts. First, Mon- tana said, \Hamilton did a good job of getting the tempo the way they wanted it We did well the first lO-ll minuites ofthe game, but then the tempo changed.\ Union attempted to use the same deliberately-paced otTense they used against St. Lawrence, but Hamilton executed their offense and defense to their own liking. Coach Montana alsopoihted out that the differential in free-throw and three-point shooting made a world of difference in the end re- sult. Hamilton attempted 26 three-point shots and 31 free throws, compared to Union's 14 three-point attempts and five free throws. Sophomore Rob Groclz led the Dutchmen with 17 points, and freshman Zena Woldeyesus, Union's second-leading scorer of the game, chipped in ten points. However, they could not out- pace the Hamilton Continentals, who had two players with 26 points each. Hamilton's Kevin Larson was one oftlwse players, as he converted five three-point shots. The Hobart game a few weeks ago represented one of Union's largest comebacks of the decade, but Union still lost the game nar- rawly. Saturday, Union visited a Hobart team which is desparately trying to return to the .500 mark this season. The pre-season ranked States- men jumped out to a 16-point lead after the first half of play as John Hatch shot a perfect five-for-five from outside the three-point arc in the half. Coach Montana stated, ··we were unable to get to their best perimeter shooter in the first half We had a three-to-four minute span when we let the game get away in the first.\ In the second half. the Dutch- men again put together a gallant comeback attempt. At one point in the second half, Union climbed to within tour points of the States- men. Wi-th 1:10 remaining in the game, the Dutchmen's deficit was only six points. The Statesmen were too much tor the Dutchmen, however. as they won by 13 points. Rob Groelz led..the Dutchmen with 17 points for the second- straight night, helping to increase his average of over 14 points per game. Junior Rob TeCarr was the second-leading scorer. adding 16 points from the bench. TeCarr was four-tor-five from behind the three-point stripe. Again, the Dutchmen shot reasonably well (43 .4 percent), hut the Statesmen countered with an incredible 61. 9-percent shooting-accuracy rate. Hatch ended up with io points for Hobart (six-for-six from the floor), and teammate Eric Nelson led the team with 23 points. With two weeks left in the Dutchmen's basketball season, Union (5-16, 3-7 UCAA) still has two important league games to play. This Friday, Skidmore visits the Memorial Fieldhouse at 8PM to try to force a split of the season series. Saturday at 6PM, Union faces their arch- nemesis at the Fieldhouse as RPI travels down RGute 7. RPI is another team trying to go 1-1 against tl~e Dutchmen this sea- 1\ son. Coach Montana IS cautiously optomistic about the weekend. \They're going to be competi- tive games as we're all some- where in the same tier of the league We could secure fifth place if we beat RPI.\ Rob TeCarr added, \I think we can pick up four wins if we play the way we did in the middle ofthe season.\ Next Tuesday, Union faces Middlebury at the Fieldhouse at 7PM in a non-league game. It will be broadcast live on WRUC. ( I - ] set da Sc de co \V< an thl by of wl rei de ca \\\ IH St or \\ es gi \.\ at to st T tt V'i tc b tc Sl 0 ~ h tl 0 J

,.. ', .. at Wells House pa~;~4 '\~\\\u. Premieres pageU Sports: - Dutchm-en Gain Respect page16 The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 . ' ' . ' ' ~ . . . . \~'nlunic-<>xxv~.::Numh<:;. xv·- -- . -- ·-·· - ··- -' · ·:·· s~-~~~~1~-ct~;~i).._Nt.:-,\--~::~ll:~-._- ~--·---_--- .- ------------ -- .-- ... -· -.- _, -.-- ... :·vebi:t'~(~r~ :2·7:~1\~)<:)7- ~ '- --;; ~- - - -, -~ _, \' - ' ' -•-- - • - - - '• - .. ~..,~- -, ,_, ~PI~\*'~'' -••- •-- •--~- ,.,_.,, ~- ,.._,~·-·~ _._,,,.. ___ ·~~ ~--~-·~..._,~\-\•--'~ ~-~ ··~ '\\'-c __ .__,..,: ... ,. ~,!.!-<-'~ -- _,.,....:::.,,_..,_......,,,,,:\'' ',-:,~-.: Light Tower Blown Over In Near Miss With <I>~® by Stephanie Slobotkin News Editor T~hoirts and shorts could be seen as th~ new attire on Satur- clay, Febt'ue\fy 22, in middle of a Schenectady winter. While resi- dertts hopefully hung their heavy coats for the last time, the sno-w was quickly melted by sunshine ~md 68 degree weather. At noon there was a-promise of Spring, b-ut by 7 PM thermometers read a Jo \V of 32 degrees, reminding those who came out of hibernation t() return to their lairs for the remain- der of the full winter season. With the cold ternperatuie came an unusually high 70m:p.h. wind br:oughton another typically nose-biting evening in Schenectady and led to damage on Union's campus. The storm,. which made Saturday the warm- est Feqruary day ever for the re ... gion accord~ing to the National Weather Service in Albany, later - caused a 70- to 1 00-foot light pole atthd3rtionCoUege-footbaU:t1eld' · to come crashing down. The southeastern field light that stood er.ect to the left of Phi Delta Theta's house had a stres_s crack that was noticed three and half weeks ago by the house's contrac- tor, Capital Wireless. The contractor was called in because hous~ members wanted to subscribe to a different cable service. Upon their investigation of a better cable connection, illey were told that their roof was not high enough; it was suggested they have the connection placed on top of the southeastern ·Jight. When Capital Wireless in· _Ligl•t tower ()TtJslll!i tfmJUgli fence in a near miss of tlie fl1i Delta Tfretiljraternity li.Quse (plwto by Laurie kirsclmer lTC) spected the light they found the found that all the other poles sur~ pus Operi!tiolls to keep mo11itor- design, or possibly a manufactur- stress crack, refused to climbthe rounding the football field were ing the pole. \If it got worse,\ ing problem which induced the damaged structure, and conveyed cracked to some degree. Grizbowski said, «we were told cracking, which must be cor- that inf()nnation to John Vero, a Campus Operations contacted to take the pole down.\ rected. I suggest that you contact brother of Phi Delta Thet~. Ryan-Biggs Associates, P.C., the On Feb. 10, Campus Opera- the original supplier and request On February 5, Vero immedi- structural engineers who came to tionschecked each pole, and they them to provide corrective ac- ately contacted David inspect the poles on Feb. 6, to continued to check them every tion.\ Grizbowski, DirectorofCamplls ,_..,determine what to do. At that few days to see if they were get- After receiving that report, Operations, whc responded point they did not realize how tingworse. Grizbowski said he spoke with within 24 hours. While serious the fracture was. They On Thursday, Feb. 20. Ryan- Ryan-Biggs on a. regular basis. Grizbowski verified that the frac- conducted static analysis ( engi- Biggs wrote a letter to Grizbowski To Vero 's understanding, an en- ture in the light pole needed to be neering calculations) and came to saying, \In my opinion, there is a gineer was brought in to photo- sighted as problematic,. he also th_~_~gnclusion of advising Cam- problem with the original pole continued on 11 e 3 Profe.ssor Wells Named FBI Veteran Speaks On Notorious Criminals Fulbright Senior Lecturer byBhavaniMeduri liked history for a long time. Sl> _ Staff Writer ence with violent offenders has shown him that they cann<Jt be changed. He believes, \they are not born this way but manufac- tured. They come from horrible backgrounds but still know the difference between right and wrong. They just choose to do the wrong thing.\ Douglas believes that violent crimes can only be prevented by getting to abused children before they commit the 1 'homicidal triangle.\ This term refers to the activities of arson and animal cruelty whkh ultilnately lead to murder. their mind and see what makes them tick. Because many violent offenders look and act like nor- mal individuals, Douglas believes it is important to, \visualize the look that the victim saw when looking at these normal looking guys.\ He stated that an ideal FBI officer should not only have a strong background in education and psychology but also 11 3 sense for the victim and a knack for in- terviewing their attackers\ so that important infonrtation can be elic- ited . by Anjali B~lasingham Staff Writer Robert Wells, the Chauncey H. Winters Professor ofHistory and Social Science, has been awarded a Fulbright grant for the 1997~98 academic year. He will be tak:ing a post as Senior Lecturer at the Center for American Studies at Odense University in Denma.rk. Wells, who has been a Union faculty member since 1969~ re- . ceived his Ph.D. from Prin~eton University. Since becoming a. full professor here in 1980, he n.as earned several recognitions~ i-n- cluding the title of Washington Irving Professor of Modern Lit- erary and Historical Studies. ''\I'-ve wanted tobe a teacher in I was in high school,\ he said. \And I've INSIDE: this was the most appealing [p<l- FBI veteranJohn Douglas gave sition] for me.\ Wells has writ- a fascinating accountofhis life, s ten five books, specifically deal- work in Memorial Chapel last irtgwith demographichist<lry- He Wednesday night. Speaking to a is currently working on a sixth~ • capacity au~ience, Douglas spoke which explores customs regard- · of his exp¢riences in hunting ing death, and uses Schenectady _· some of A~e~ica:s most notori- as a case-study. . ous and sadistic klllers. The Fulbright Program, funded . Entering the force when he was by the United States Information only 25, Douglas gained insight Agency, is designed to promote into career criminals at a young understanding between the U.S. age. He narrated a story in which and other countries. It annually he developed a rapport with a ca- grants scholarships for students, reergamblerwhowasarrestedfor lecturers, and researchers to study betting on the Super Bowl game. or teach abroad. As a Senior Lee- When asked why he had chosen turerl Wells will teach U.S. nis- a life of crime, the gambler an- tory at the Center for American · swered, \John we are who we Studies for nine months. He sees are.\ the position as both a teaching;a.nd Douglas agr~es with the · continued onp(l.g~ 4 ambler's statement. 1-lis ex eri- He does not believe that the current trend in abused cnildren can be prevented and predicts that the consequences will be suffered by tl1e public sometime between the years of2005-2010. Douglas's job involves profil- ing criminals. He tries to get into He also believes that new rules should be created when adecision to parole these violent offenders must be made. He believes, \if you are not skilled to analyze the methods of the crime befo.re mak- ing a parole decision for these criminals then you have no busi- continued 011 11ae 3 Ca111pur~ News .......... , ........ :.:: ............. 2 Features., ..................................... _ .... 9 Global News .............................. /2 Op;lliot'li;/Edi((Jria/s .................. ...... . 6 Arts and Entertainment ................. 10 5,jJOI'IS .... ......................... -.-- ...... I 6

Campus: - Safer Sex at Wells House page 4 · · Features: Unsaid Premieres page 12 Sports: Dutchmen Gain Respect page 16 • 1 The Student Newspaper tJj Union College Since 18 77 Light Tower Blown Over In Near Miss With <P~8 h) StephanieSiobotkin News Editor T-shirts and shorts could he ~een as the nC\\ attire nn Satur- day, February 22, tn middle of a Schenectady winter While resi- dents hopefully hung their heavy coats for the last time, the snow \Vas quickly melted by sunslline and 68 degree weather At noon there was a-promise of Spring, but by 7 PM thermometers read a low of 32 degrees, reminding those who came out of hibernation \Q return to their lairs for the remain- der of the full winter season. With the cold temperature came an unusually high 70 mph wind brought on another typically nose-biting evening in S~.:hencctadj and led to damage on Union's campus The storm, \\htch made Saturday the wann- est February day ever for the re- gion according to the National Weather Service in Albany, later caused a 70-to 100-footlightpole at the Union College football field to come crashing down. The southeastern field light that stood erect to the left of Phi Delta Theta's house had a stress crack that was noticed three and half weeks ago by the house's contrac- tor, Capital Wireless. The contractor was called in because house members wanted to subscribe to a different cable service. Upon their investigation of a better cable connection, they were told that their roof was not high enough; it was suggested they have the connection placed on top of the southeastern light. When Capital Wireless in- Light tower crashes tluouglrjence in a rtear miss of tire Pili Delta Theta fraternity house (photo by Laurie Kirscf111er lTC) spected the light they found the found that all tlu other poles sur- pus Operations to keep monitor- design, or possibly amanufactur- stress crack, refused to climb the rounding the fDotball field were ing the pole_ \If it got worse,\ ing problem which induced tl1e damaged structure, and conveyed cracked to some degree. Grizbowski said, \we were told cracking, which must be cor- that information to John Vero, a Campus Operations contacted to take the pole down.\ rected_ I suggest that you contact brotherofPhiDeltaTheta. Ryan-BiggsAssociates,P.C.,the On Feb. 10, Campus Opera- theoriginalsupplierandrequest On February 5, Vera immedi- structural engimers who came to tions checked each pole, and they them to provide corrective ac- ately contacted David inspect the poles on Feb. 6, to continued to check them every tion.\ Grizbowski, Director nfCampus determine what to do. At that few days to see if they were get- After receiving that report, Operations, whc responded point they did not realize how ting worse. Grizbowski said he spoke with within 24 hours. While serious the fracture was. They On Thursday, Feb. 20. Ryan- Ryan-Biggs on a regular basis. Grizbowski verified that the frac- conducted static analysis ( engi- Biggs wrote a letter to Grizbowski To Vero' s understanding, an en- ture in the light pole needed to be neering calculations) and came to saying, \In my opinion, there is a gineer was brought in to phot()- sighted as problematic? he also the ~()nclusion ofadvising Cam- problem with the original pole continued on page 3 Professor Wells Named FBI Veteran Speaks On Notorious Criminals Fulbright Senior Lecturer by Anjali Balasingham Staff Writer Robert Wells, the Chauncey H. Winters Professor of History and Social Science, has been awarded a Fulbright grant for the 1997-98 academic year. He will be taking a post as Senior Lecturer at the Center for American Studies at Odense University in Denmark. Wells, who has been a Union faculty member since 1969, re- ceived his Ph.D. from Princeton University. Since becoming a full professor here in 1980, he has earned several recognitions, in- cluding the title of Washington Irving Professor of Modern Lit- eral)' and Historical Studies. \I 've wanted to be a teacher in I was in high school,\ he said. \And I've '·INSIDE: . . liked history for a long time. So this was the most appealing [po- sition] for me.\ Wells has writ- ten five books, specifically deal- ing with demographic history. He is currently working on a sixth, which explores customs regard- ing death, and uses Schenectady as a case-study. . The Fulbright Program, funded by the United States Information Agency, is designed to promote understanding between the U.S. and other countries. It annually grants scholarships for students, lecturers, and researchers to study or teach abroad. As a Senior Lec- turer, Wells will teach U.S. his- tory at the Center for American Studies for nine months. He sees the position as both a teaching and continued on page 4 Campus News .................................... 2 Opinions/Editorials ......................... 6 by Bhavani Medllri SttlffWriter FBI veteranJ()hn Douglas gave a fascinating account ofhis life's work in Me111orial Clupel last Wednesday night. Speaking to a capacity audience, Douglas spoke of his experiences in hunting some of America's most notori- ous and sadistic killers. Entering the force when he was only 25, Douglas gained insight into career criminals at a young age. He narrated a story in which he developed a rapport with a ca- reergamblerwnowas arrested for betting on the Super Bowl game. When asked Vlihy he had chosen a life of crime, the gambler an- swered, \John we are who we are.\ Douglas agrees with the am bier's statement His ex eri- ence with violent offenders has shown him that they cannot be changed. He believes, \they are not born this way but manufac- tured. They come from horrible backgrounds but still know the difference between right and wrong. They just choose to do the wrong thing.\ Douglas believes that violent crimes can only be prevented by getting to abused children before they commit the \homicidal triangle.\ This term refers to the activities of arson and animal cruelty whil-h ultimately lead to murder. He does not believe that the current trend in abused children can be prevented and predicts that the consequences will be suffered by the public sometime between the years of2005-20 10. Douglas's job involves profil- ing criminals_ He tries to get into their mind and see what makes them tick. Because many violent offenders look and act like nor· mal individuals, Douglas believes it is important to, \visualize the look that the victim saw when looking at these nonnal lookit1g guys.\ He stated that an ideal FBI officer should not only have a strong background in education and psychology but also\ a sense for the victim and a knack for in- terviewing their attackers\ so tllat important infonnation can beelic~ ited. He also believes that new rttl es should be created when a decisio11 to parole these violent offenders must be made. He believes, \if you are not skilled to analyze the methods of the crime before rm.k- ing a parole decision for these criminals then you have no husi- continued on a e 3 Feature.'! ....................................... .. 9 <ilohal News. _ . .12 Arts and Entertainment ......... _ ...... 10 Sports ........... . .16

Pa.ge 2. • Feluuary 27, 1997 • 'illlp~ illottco:rbict.tsis. . · · · . . Campus News ' ' ' ' ' . Campus.:!Bfo ~--: ... \\\\'-\. ~- ;~-'!---·.~-·--·~;- · _Gr_ouu·H.o~~~!lg .. / . The Student Affairs Council (SAC) invites proposals from. groups that would like group housing. At present there is one 21-person space open in Chester Arthur. Interested groups should submit a proposal to the SAC c/o Dean of Students Office, 306 Reamer Campus Center. The SAC will weigh the following criteria in evalu~ ating prop()sals. 1. WiU the group use the space to improve the intellectual and social climate of the campus? 2. Are there 21 students who are committed to living in the house? Proposals should be submitted before March 15, 1997. The Student Affairs Council will be conducting a review process for housing renewal for Sigma Delta Tau, Kappa Alpha, and Bronner House. ThGse who would like to share their impressions of any of the houses sh()uld submit comments by February 17, 1997, in writing to: Prof. Hugh Jenkin.s, SAC Chair English Departmeilt Humanities Building . 'Construction Update Setf;.Serve Copy Machines· now available in North Colonnade's Ail:\ Night Study. Use your Library Debit Card, · coins or hills. Open 24· hours. Alternate Study Areas • Upperclass Dining Hall, 9 PM to 2 AM, Sunday-Thursday. • w·est Dining Hall, 9 PM to 2 AM, Sunday-Thursday · • North Cclo.nnade (the former psychology building), all-night study. . . . .. . . : .. -~ S9c,i8;l Scienc~s, first floor, all-night st1.1dy. . · , ~~:.rh~~~h 1i4;fJgJ?f ~~~PY ~,:~~. pfJh.~.~~~1~- M~m ~~i.ai. ,reiV!'!,in~ 9P~~· fr9m noon to 1{) PM SUQ.~ay through Thursday, and noon to 5 PM Friday and Saturday. Mike Newell (Union Class of 1974) of Amphicon Will be speaking about: \Environmental Drivers, Direc- tions, and Opportunities; an Overview of the US. Envi- ronmental Businees\ Friday February 28 12:30 pm in S&E N116 Academic Affairs Council, February 11, 1997 Respectfully submitted hy Dean Christie Sorum 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. The rninutes of January 28, 1997 were approved as amended. After Dean Cool advised the Council of President Hull's view on the itiadvisabil ity ofa: \one-year\ calendar correction, the AAC tabled its proposal for a \late start.\ · The proposed minor in Civil Engineering was approved. Dealt Lewis affinned that 7-year med students can take a minor. Co11sicleration of several altemative calendar schedules began. Professor Gree11berg it1troduced a 12-9-9 proposal. Dean Lewis presei1ted a 13-7 -I 0 proposal (4-3-2 cources). Professor Sargent presented a \split wintd' proposal. DeattCool asked the Council to consider the use of a full day for Stietimetsz Symposium. TI1e.t11eeting was adjoumedat 9:30AM. ,]2:06PM 11:23 PM 8:15AM :45AM ;1:28PM Big Brllthers Big . Sistera Bawl far .lids Sake S07 PM . ,· Start A Everyone Welcome.! team of 4-6 People today. Call Union College Big Brothers and Big Sisters 388-6228 Davidson Hale House Reamer Center Arts Building 27 North Terrace Silliman Hall' Campus Roadway Richniond Richmond Hall Alumni Gyrn Lot Reamer Center . S..& E Building '' ' •- ' ••' I , .. . · . Hick;ek . ·.; .·, • .· ; ~, . ,, Reamer Center Richmond Fox House -- Bailey Field North Entry Road Fraternity Achilles Rink Fraternity Stoller Circle Rayrrtond House Edwards House North Colonnade INCIDENT . ,. ..~ REPORT OF BURNING ODOR: tnvestigated; unfounded. VANDALISM: Concrete ashtray broken. FIRE ALARM: Excess smoke from grill. SAFETY HAZARD: Snow I ice falling from roof. THEFT: Photography tripod reported missing. MISSING PERSON(S): Located- unfounded; THEFT: Reportofmissing food items. KEYS: Investigation of possible unauthorized possession. THEFT: Padlock tnissing. AGGRAVATED HARASS MENT: Investigation ofun wanted telephone calls. PERSONAL ILLNESS: Student reports being HI. PERSONAL ILLNESS: Student reports being ill. VEHICLE IMMOBILIZED: Outstanding parking violations. VEHI~LE IMMOBILIZED: Outstanding parking violations. VEHICLE IMMOBILIZED: Outstanding parking violations. · HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: lnapprliJpriate storage repQ,rted. .... 911 CALL: Unfounded. THEFT: Report oftheft of unattended bo(}k bag. SECURITY HAZARD: Resident and guestcircumventing building security. VANDALISM: Student observed breaking window in entry. HARASSMENT: Student being harassed as a result of ended relationship. EQUIPMENT DAMAGE: Light pole toppled due to high winds. RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT: Student & alumni guest driving on sidewalk to avoid traffic officer. . DISORDERLYCONDUCT: Student /parent argument. ASSAULT /DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Altercation between student and non-students. 911 CALL: Unfounded. \' SAFETY HAZARD: Fireplace left burning /unattended. SUSPICIOUS PERSON; Unable to locate. VANDALISM: Damage discov ered to tife safety equipment. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Door closer pulled from door frame. VANDALISM: Broken concrete

Cnmpus News . · Wlrc Wota·L,rDh'ltEis • FciJI'Uary 27, 1997 ··P~ge 3 Bad Things Come in Threes Asbestos and Noxious Fumes Sidekick to Fallen L.ight Tower by Stephanie Sl~botkin News Etlitrn C~lamities were cummon on campus. this past week. Asbes- tos, noxious fi.nnes,.and the fallen light post were three i11cidents that cast a. black ~louclover Union's usual aesthetic ain~ iance. The restoration ~r the Nott Memorial, th~ Y 1,1l 1rran. Theater and the most recent Olin Center have takenprecede11be overhec,. essary repairs ,for ~~intel'tance of the campus. In an effort to grow and build up. ~he ~an1pus, Basic upkeep has been neglected. As of Monday, :February 17, construction pn the Shaffer Li- brary.came to .a standstill. Within the curtain wap· they found a small' amount of asbestos. Accordh1g to Bill S1mfer, Capi- tal Projects Mana11er ~ this is a potentiallyalarmin:g subject. By law Union conduc;:techrt asbestos survey before any(!emoHtio!.l ac- tivity took place 011. tile Library. Shafer !laid that certai1,1 typical materials tllatcontain asbestos are VAT (viJJyl asbestos tile), old pipe insl!lation,.orplaster. those materials thattested .positive were remov~d prior to construction activity. !he fire-safing material in the cttrtain wall spandrel pan- els was S() inaccessible tbat._they did not r~ach it there. They found very little asbestos in the ~arts of building that they knocked d<Jwn, except for soa1e evidence inthe floor.:tile and pipe insulati()n · ·' · The AAR Environmental Ser- vice gottidof.~tbefore construc- tion started. However, inthecase of the demolition of the library, the asbe.,stos was found in the metal s:pandrel.panels of the cur- tain wa:H sy.stem. Unfortunately it was not detected until all of the panels were removed from the buildirt.g \s facade, The college has retained the services of AAR Environmental to abate the. sma:ll amount of asbestos ,within th.e construction debris. Shafer esti- mates that there was ap.prox~i­ mately 375 square feet of this ma- terial to be removed. Addition,. ally, most of it is within the sand- wich panels that are stiiT in tact, creating less of a hazard than it might otherwise appear. The asbestos was found in 16 square feet of the 25 windows. \Proportional.ly it's minimal but hazardous at the same time,\ Shafer said. \However there is · no danger to the community.\ After the walls had been knoc,ked down, the debris was piled at twq places on the sight, which are now protected. From a legal standpoint, the sight has to labeled as contarni- nated. However, Shafer said, \lfs nota hazardous sight, and the area in and around the library is welJ- protectedand safe.\ The AAR notified the Depart- ment of L.abor b~cause they had to go through the procedure of inspecting the entire v.icinity. As of now there is plastic tarp covering the area, and this week they are loading the debris into containers. They are being. ex- tremely careful to make sure to slowly pick up all the asbestos containingtnaterial. · The debris and asbestos wlHbe cleaned up by Friday. The cmn- tnunity should be aware that studying in the library is not harmfut the partitions are dust- proof and serve as air infiltration The abatement, which involves rigorous air monitoring, among other precautionary measures, completely ensures that it's safe to reside in the vicinity. If anyone has any questions· or concerns, please contact Bi·U Shafer at exteAsi:on X'6085. Disaster was not contained at Shaffer Library, it traveled up campt,~s to the Science and Engi- neering Building. At about 9:45 AM on February 25 three em- ployees were overcome by fmnes in the Science and Engineering building. A c- cording to the pt1blic relations offi<;e~he Science and Engineer- . . . . - . ' ' . ' - - -. bngbuilding closed for two hours be cause o.f the emergency. Sc:benectady Fire Department of- ficials determined that diesel furnes from Olin construction eqlilipment leaked into the build- illgthrough an air intake and open v.d11dow. l'he fire department and para- imedicsevacuated the entire build- ing. At that time they were not :I\vare ofwhatthey were dealing \\'ith said David Grizbowski, Di- re~tor of Campus Operations. Tneylater detennined that the gas vva.s caused by a water-main that \.Vas to be used for the 01 in. Pe0ple exposed to and effected by the fumes .were on ihe third floor ofthe building. They were taken to area hospitals and remain tn stable conditions. Fire officials reopened the rmilding at ll :30 AM and deter- Enined that the building was safe to occupy. Grizbowski con- finned that students should not l1es it ate to attend scheduled IC!~sses or appointments. <PAE> ••• continued from page 1 ground and the other lights are not in service. The pathway around the track is currently un- A.s ofnowthepoleremains on th-e ground for further inspection. :lehool officials are taking care of the issue by inspecting other poles 5turounding the football field. graph the darnagedlightas well as the light on the so11thwest side. A few of the brothers con- firmed the assumption that Ryan- Biggs must have told Campus Operations that repairs could wait and thete·should.be no immedi- ate concern: They did not assess that the,crack made the pofeweak enough to submit to any such short term, harshvvea11leting. The storm is at coniplete fault for the accident, but there f,lfe now con- cerns about other li~hts in the area However, according to Campus Operati()ns and Ryan-Biggs, the problem sterns from the matmfac- turing ofthe pole itse\lf and not the actual installment. They speculated that the pole's con- struction was off because theweld wasnotthe maincause:ofthe fall~ the pole sheered, From .a general perspective of the situ&ti on, the brothers ()'f Phi Delta I'lteta feel that a closer look should.lta-ve. been taken befor~ it was not]ce'd by the cable com- and their '-~-~--~ .......... ~-----\--~ pany.'John Gasthalter, a sopho- m o r e brother of Phi Delta T:,heta, con- firmed that Camp us Operations did not ne- glect the situation prior to the fall, how- ever f'[i]t stability. The let- ter written on Feb. 20 a 1 s o warned C'ampus Opera- tionsabout the imme- diacy of the repair. It read, \This problem is \.Well we didn't make it past the high winds. Luckily, nobody was killed.\ - Grizbowski an imme- seems to d i a t e prove their safetycon- judgment cern which will :require repairs a.s may ha:ve been a bit off.\ soon as possible. Until a fix is Vero, who saw the pole im- implemented, I rec<Jrnmend you mediately after it fell,said, '~I was monitor the cracks. on a weekly pulling in from Douglas A venue basis and afterhiglt winds.\ and basically savy the iight in the Campus Operations had inten- fence: vvith the trees. At first I . tions oftaking heed to the letter's thougltt it was a car from that requests, but thev.r~ather on Sat- view--a lot of wreckage and de- urday beat th.etll to the task. bris, Emt from the other side I was Grizbowski ~aid, \'Well we didn't able to discern that it was the en~ make is past th.e high winds. tire pole.;, Luckily nobody \.Vas killed.\ Anotl1er brother, who had been Though the otller lights stand looking outofhis window at the erect, they were f<Jund with stress time ofthe fall, said it looked as cracks as well, ])ut not as big as though it would hit the house. the one on th~ fall-en pole. The one . According to many ofthe broth- that fell had a fresh break half- ers,' if it had not been for the ob- way around the circumference of structi<lt~ oftr.ees; therE;:. was little the pole, and theotherhalfclearly doubt that it would hav~ hit the shows thecorro~hn. . ,,house. The lights wer~ installed in Tl1erewas concern pertaining 1981 with ~one year warranty. · _'to the h.ouse itself. Had it been struck by light tower; it's older I it and Gasthalter commented, ~~I wooden structure would have do not appreciate that it is pitch been unable to withstand sucll a black walking up to the house.'' blow. Since there was damag~ to Campus Operations is pursu- the rod iron gate and to the trees ing the placement of I ights and on which ·the· pole fell, the pole foresees a field without 1 ights for couldhaveeasilytakendown the approximately ten to 14 weeks. entire house. The gate actUally' · Telllpdtary lights are an option stopped the pole from hitting the until Dick Sakal·a, Head of the sidewalk, which would have -....Athletics Department, decides posed a largerthreatto those pass- what to do about the in tram ura 1 ing during or ~fter the incident. programs that are usually held on Gasthalter said, •'It's lucky that It the field. Apparently, upon checking the ()ther poles in the vicinity, a prob- lem was found. Currently there is orange tape blockading an area ill which .a true!~ hol.ding pp the pde closestto Bailey is lqcated. According to Campus Opera- tio11s, no threats are posed by the .5tructure, but they are being ex- tra careful cinder the circum- stances that occurred on Saturday. As a result of this, Campus Op- erations is trying to take down the re:st of t11e standing poles by the end ofthe week. fell at that time ... because of the Officials who showed up atthe hockey game, less people were scene on Saturday night turnecl I ikely to be in the area.\ off the power to the lights and cut Presently the pole is on the away damaged tree branches. FBI Agent ... continuedfrompage 1-~-....,---'--~------ ness making the decision.\ And also stated that most violent of- fenders have above average IQ's thus can deceive many parole boards by using the \buzz words\ that they memorize from psy- chology text books. The accounts that he gave of . his past profiles were disturbing. He described the investigation of Larry 0. Bell, a serial killer who made audiotapes describing the murder of a young woman and then sent them to the home of the victim's family. Douglas stated that for the most part, the only way to catch such mastermind- . ing criminals is to wait for them to make a mistake. In the case of Bell, the breakthrough came when police were able to elicit the indentation of a telephone number from a pad of paper that was found in the house in which he was residing. The number led to a perspn who gave police a description of Bell so that he could be captured. Douglas also allowed the audience to listen to . excerpts of an audiotape in which the murderer was speaking with ·the mother of the victim so that ·they could get a feel for the cold tnanner.ofsuch offenders. He believes that the media tends to glamorize these horrific and dismal cases. Although the .al5o feels that in his professional popular \televi~'ion · sho\v, . .opinion, \Mr. Ramsey did not Profilers, was based on his book., kill his daughter because his ac- Mindhunter, he refuses to enter- tions following the discovery of tain the show's request for an hisdaughter'sbodywerenotthe endorsement because he v iew!l actions expected of a murderer.\ them as \cheesy.\ l-Ie also stated that most murder- He does not find anythin11 e.-s are very reluctant to go near glamorous about such offenses their victim's body. However, it and warned Union students that was Mr. Ramsey that found his they should never place them- daughter. Also, the first thing s~lves in a \high risk situation.\ Mr. RaJnsey did was remove the He said as an analogy, \a college tape binding his daughter's student is at a low risk buta col- tnouth before carrying her up- lege student that is outside at s:tairs. Douglas believes that such night is at a high risk.\ Douglas ~n act of respect would rarely be then related a story about a stu• carried out by a murderer. dent couple at Duke University In addition to speaking of his who were accosted at night by a .current role as an advisor in the stranger is the school's park. B~- high profile Ramsey case, Dou- cause they were in an isolated g\a$; also spo~e of his other cur- areaofthepark; no one was a\)le: rent projects which include the to aid them as the female stu~~t new book, Journey through the was violently attacked in front .()f Darkness, and a collaboration her boyfriend. , . . 'With Fox network in creating a Douglas went on to give his true crimes show. He also opinion of both the OJ Simps()n teaches at the FBI academy and and Jean Benet Ra,msey cases. 1-le travels around the country to re- believes that the violent nature of late his experiences to others. th~ attack on Nicole BroVJn Anyone interested in contact- Simpson and Ron Goldman sug- ing Douglas should contact a gests that it was a crime ofetno- memberofthe Speaker's Forum tion and not related to a sourec:l or the Psychology and Sociol- business deal with a drug cartel ogy Departments; their financial as the Simpson's defense woulci contributions and accommoda- have the media believe. Dou~ll!iS tions to bring Douglas to Union.

Page 4 ~ Febr·uat·y 27~ I 997 • 'QI!l;, illmtrnroicnsi~ · . . · , · Campus News Wells House Promotes Sa~fer. Sex· ; . ' I • ~ • I ' - ' ' Professor .Wells , .. contintt;edftompage 1 learning opportunity. «The real o:()tli f)anish:-hntn.igrants.,\'WeHs . dep~ent(Feder::iiUniversityQf appeal of it is that ifll be a chance :was enthusiastic when Professor'· Pernambuco in Recife, Brazil, for mete teach American history Feffer, a Fulbright Lecturer him- 1981-82, and Sao Paulo, 1991 ); to students who haven't been self, informed him ofthe~positibn ManfredJonasoftheHistory de- learning it all along,\ he said. inOdense. Odense, the third larg 7 partment (University ofSaarlund, by Aileen Quigley AssistantNews Editor ' Were you. aware that the laws in New York State governing the prosecution and investigation c~f rape are some of the most liberal in the country? Do you also know how to use a female condom or dental dam during safer sex? On Thursday, February 20, Wells House provided a forum for dis- cussion of these and other ques- tions about how to make sex safer. Jill Hirschenfangand Amy Mehta led a presentation on AIDS along with Stacy Beth Rattner, a fellow health educ&tor. Members. of Safe Space effered guidance to victims of sexual assault and information on how to protect oneself from sexual violence. In conjunction with Wells' Health Issues program, the two groups sought to present infor- mation about safer . sex. Hirshchenf.ang, Mehta, and · Rattne~; ·e*p,lai,Red !\!ow we. can r.educe the r.isk ~of contracting or transmitting·AIDS by using condoms and other fonns of pro- tection. Rattner gave a demon- stration .of how to use the female condom, called \Reality and dental dams. One audience mem- ber doubted that people were go- ing to \run right out and buy the female condom, because she ba- sically admitted that it is!) 't as ef- fective as a regular con.doJtl: It is better than. nothing, though, and the information was definitely useful.\ A card demonstration soon followed. The 'cards de- picted various sexual acts, as well as mosquito bites and other AIDS myths. Students were placed in groups and instructed to rank the cards from high to low risk of HIV or AIDS contraction. )-Iirsc!:-~~lfan\g poin!S 9u.t tlmt the r-.----- :50% mosquito card often confuses Wells cofltin1;.1ed to say that ht:: est city in Denmark, is known to 1973-94); imd 'Josef Schmee . 0 f people when they are asked to . hoped' the Danish students and m'o.st as the hirthp:lace of writer the Graduate Management Insti-. expiain why or why not it Is an faculty members. would ':give me· Hans Ch-ristian Andersen. · ' tute(University ofMunich., 1980~ actl)al risk. Tr~ns~ission of the a different perception on A:meri- Wells is one of several other 8'1 ). disease through sal iva and toilets can his tory, and what outsiders faculty members at Union to have As for his thoughts on the forth- 1 H · think about it\ · won ~Fulbright gtant T. ·he list of coming ex.nerience, · W·ells s·aid.·. are a so among co.mmon ··IV t' - myths. The message this presen- Wells was initially attracted to recipients also includes Edward '~I'm really enthusiastic about tation hopefully communicated, the position forpersonal as well Craig of Electrical Engineering this: .. My wife and I have never Hirschenfang.states, isthatweare as professional reasons. \Myel- (University of Liberia in hadtheehanceto Jjveabroad for all at some degree of risk and dest <laughterlives in Denmark, Monro;via, 1979-1980)~ Andrew thislong.a·period of time. [t'snfce shouldtherefore avoid any and all and my wife and I have been there Feffer .of the History department that we-have family ties [in Den- risks while being sexually active. a few times to see her,\ he said. (University of Oslo, 1994-95); mark] also. I'm really looking «Also_, my. wife's p· ar:ents were _ MarthaHu,ggins.ofthe_Sociolog· ·y fo.rwa.rdtoit .. '\ \Our goal was to get the audience ~ tothinkaboutwhethertheymay campus. Justin Cal1, a Wells Statelawdietatesthat\ .. .ifaper- Spaulding and fellow members have taken any risks and to get House resident, admitted that he son is forced to have sexual in- urge students take,properprecau- tested ifthey believe they have.\ ·was\' ... $urpri-sed to find out how tercour~e or ifhe or she is unable tions. to protect themselves, such Resources where students could little [he] knew.\ Safe Space in- to consent, the behavior of the as taking advantage ofescort in\' obtain more information as well formed the audience that believ- perpetrator is considered rape.\ A stead of walking alone. They also as get tested were provided, in- ing that •'rape doesn't happen victim is considered m1able 'to passed out a booklet containing eluding hos- cons.ent if ·more prevention information, Ie- pitals, sup- ~-~~----'\'~---~~-~...-.....~--~~--~~----~ mentally in- gal sanctions, guidelines ofhow port groups, \A lack 0 £ renorts 0 Frane does· not· capacitated' to nandle·a rape situation,: and a and crisis 'J r 'J 1:' or physi- list of people available for sup- hot-lines in mean fhaf a problem does not eXiSt.\ cally ·help- port,information,andreferraL the area. less,' as in · Bycreating a forumwlleresuch Four Safe - Safe Space rep,resentative case.s ; of issues can be discussed underthe Space mem..: drug and al- direction .of informed experts, hers . then ---~--------------~-~--.:....~--- cohol con- Wells House reaffirms- its com~ . c.onducted a presentation on an- here\ is one of the most common sumption. Safe Space members mitment to community service in other type of sexual danger-- misconceptions. According tore- explained that, under this penal the Union Community. One au- sexuill violence. Safe Space was cent nationaf statistics; a woman law, a-· inan who ha~ sex with a dience member stated how the formed about three years ago, is raped every 24 seconds', and on woman while both of them are development of programs like when only two reports of rape college campuses one in six drunk could actually be consid- these are \ ... so critical to the de- were reported in a ten-year pe- women are raped each year. Safe ered a rapist. Students in the au- velopment of a sexually-con- riod. There was clearly a need for Space stated, \A lack of reports dience felt that this could be sex- scious.student body, which is the a support group for the victims, of rape does not mean that a prob- ist,_ and debated its fairness to only way win can make our cam- and Safe Space took on that role. !em does not exist.\ New York men. In cases of stranger rape, pus safe from rape.\ At present, that role has expanded to incorporate a 24-hour crisis hot-line and to offer all stl)dents a so~rce of acc'urate i~fon~ation about the legal, physical, and emotional ramifications of rape.' Presenting members included Erin Spaulding, president, along with Megan Donovan, Katie Gross, and Sloane Silver. During their talk, they sought to clear up m isconc~ptions about sexual as- sault an~ to give a clear idea of the frequency of rape on Ur.aion's e-::males/females The College Network of the Capital Region http:// www.crisny.org/ ,..,singles TO PHOTO FOR .SUPER SAVINGS! lcbenectldY 1· 041 ltltal1raet 882-6178 • r---aai- T-14~iia .iiii : PROCESSING • REPRIITS • Bx1 o • a. 1. Reec:.~ve So-At. . off dt• e replar 1 1 1 1 Limit l lx I 0 e_Diar. 1emeots .. 1 1 Receive SS.OO off whca Limit 20 staodard size I p .. ~c. ofprocea•m •. 1 aod I I From you.r 35mm. color I JOU putehaae a club.. I fil repriats. From your l Smm . I ,. UJhDI color prmt m. I celor aecalive. I aeaatiYC. I mcmbenbip! Mut ·prelellt I I L\\'· , ..... SWtdudAar;n.u .. l 1 I I (\u.tew~tc... ... ,._ • .,.....,., ..... 1 . coupoa to receive SS.OO off. 1 1_ iddlltctMI dWJC Hal valid wldl ...... I Not .. •ltd .with...., COif • 01 c•ln let Not vaJid wldt Glhrr c.,..,nt 0# ofl'cfl ptOfiiC!iliolll cw. .... n .-cetvc I c-. IMII!IIen ....,.,, .. 10% (CMipOft prief I CGUI'Ofll.., t~tn MtJ\OIIIiCAIOM c... I LiMie ... ,.. pm.N . .,.,. valid wd I I A&l . ,..-nrec:ca.ve IO%c..-.,ncc .....,c ..... ~ .. oro«tn 1· ~~·~ I I · ·. I . I JCfr•7•b••,HOicl I M070;HOIO. I Mb'1lJPHOicl I lf8i01¥10Jr:l I ~----~----------------------------------~

5:50: Meeting Beg.ins,. AIJessi, Proctor, & Pathak Absent 5: 52;, Officer Reports .. M ala.~pina ,. Wants to continue assist~ng with Crosstalk; semester system again being reviewed by AAC li ; Co(l..en- Wj11terAffair tiGkets on sale; TOIF 2/28 (Social Coqimi~­ tee)--HuU will appear; Moun.tebankstperformlllg 3/1, and P~p~rs ,. m-ay. perform same day; Sprhigfest Gc.;>mmitt~~ ,(2/24} d,~scussing concert . , !1\ .. ti Mtmkad- Lee Ros~ flagged multi .. c.ulttlrf}.l eventston Web page.;. Or. Ruthbooked{or Spriugfest weekend '' Pel/ish ,. Reviewedap.proval voting: system; spoke about Concordy problems (not placing c_andid~tes' pictures and state- ments in pre-electio.n issue); dtscussed alternative methods and . nctedthat forum will work with Co11c,orc!y next time; trying to. pre.pare voting machine for next term's major el~ctions Co.usins- Greek Week early next term; mandatory anti'\hazing seminar 2125. • Tolin- PanHelto bold 50/50 raffle. on 3/4-5 for Big Brothers/Big Sisters; working on changing Rush Ferguson - Planning event with IFC and PanHel; .Spoke about Theme House Recruiting; voting campaign( on campus) nextterm Markowski .. Freshmen Ski Trip sign-ups have begun--limited to l on students (3/8) Zandman -·Awaiting election results for Morris' replacement; planning study break with foo4 for late-night study; awaiting Montreal trip approval Dross man- Working with Chevy Travel for May cruise; may not be exclusively for juniors LeDuc- Senior Ski Trip--numbers being mulled over,. could be 3/ l, and seniors will be contacted; possible bowling event; intro- ducedBrandonDeclet- On BacpataureateComtidttee--fa¢ulty. speakers have· been chosen, and student auditions for speaker· spots will be soon · • Liberman -SAC reviewed SDT --3 year re.newal; new opening in Chester Arthur--applications being taken unti13/15 Ferguson- Forum consultants met--looking to have a report second or third week of spring term Cunanan- Pew Grants voted down 6:16: New Business Pellish spoke about election responsibilities--said by preparing petition, you say you will fulfill entire term, wants strict enforce- ment; Cunanan would like first runner-up to be able to replace officer; Malaspina states terms abroad and being on Forum both important, and it is possible to do both; Cohen says Forum Consultants speaking about Forum should play .in students' lives; Ferguson thinks terms abroad are fulfilling, but upset violators are biggest advocates of rule change; Winn agrees with Pellish and thinks others are more passionateifthey stay; Cousins concurs; Morris plans on going to Japan next year, but still may run, it is possible to hand over powers if a transition is in place; Tolin thinks terms abroad and Forum are incomparable, PanHel has alternates for this reason; Malaspina says AAC wants every- one to go on terms abroad, and 56% go now, only 20-30% of campus could run for Forum, removing rule allows more people to experience Forum, but thinks for President and VPs, rule should remain; Liberman likes alternate idea and feels school leaders need to reach outside school gates and learn from those different _than us; suggests 4th-place in class election would allow person to fill position vacated; Pellishcontent with replacement idea; Cunanan halts future discussion and put Pellish in charge of project concerning this issue Cohen feels the Concordy and Forum need to make a formal agreement and feels that the check-writing system of school is restricting ability to get people to work for classes Courtney Feeley distributed a possibte rink survey; Liberman concerned there would be no response; Dtossnumfeels social space issue should not be included for Forum's purposes; LeDuc feels survey is fine, but a random sampling would be tough '7:05: Morris moves to adjourn I~dea for Virtual Design Studio Co.nies from_ EJpe.~i~~c~ i~ T1;1rkey ·Michelle Neier Satf/Wtiter Located \l,}J~tairs in $teinmetz ,Hall js a .surprisingly high-t~ch studio\o\!nichhas been the site of .w.hat so)ne. Pl-ight Ci'J;ll a Virtual ·Term /\;\}road, but what theengi- , neering(iepafl:mentprefersto re- fer to a:sthe I;ntemational Virtual Design Studio. , · Th.e,studio is\he.resultof. D~:;1;1a Ric;har,Q Kenyon's vi~it to the Middle:EastTechnical University· in A~k ara, Turkey. Th~ goal of the. pro~ram was to prepare a project which would be entered . into theSenior Design Competi- tion at METU. \Thi:s is a complimentary ex- perien<:e to a traditional term abroad,\ Professor Ron Bucin~ll said. One which, nonetheless, in- corporated many of the aspects of · wot:ki~g with people from a dif- ferentculture. It encompassed the · challerages of.arigorousengineer- ing c<>urse with the experience of · foreignstudy with a student from · anothe;rcountry. To begin with, Professor Ron Bucineli needed to find two stu- dents \Wllo would be willing to workDn this project. Two senior Mecha11ical Engineering stu- dents, Jill Hahl and Brian Smallvvood, initially volunteered. At the request of METU, Profes- sor Bttcinell found two other stu- dents to. compete~ Carmen · McMurtry, a Mechanical Engi- neerillg student and Kira Sobc~k, aCivil Engineering stu- dent. Each team was then paired with tVJo students from METU. $200-$500 Weekly Mailing phone cards. No experi- ence necessary. For mB:re information, semd a self-ad- dressed, stamped en- .· velc.:pe to: GltJbal Communication P.O. Box 5679 Hollywood, FL 33083 ' ' The next step was to design the actual studio where the students could communicate with Turkey. As part of an i.ndept:mdent study, Jill and Brian helped Professor Bucine11 puttogetl1erthe room. lt inpfudes a Gateway computer, scanner, printer, video equip- men( and hookup'to a· VCR so that there cah be both a'udio' and visu~al 'cormm unication with other cmmtries. Over the course ofthe project as technolqgy has im- proved, the studio has become even more advanced with easier to use software. All ofthe money for the studio came fr01n Dean Kenoyon. At this titne, the de- partment is waiting for a: grant to build ~even 111ore studios. Alh~r sixteen weeks.of commu- nication and collaboration with $e Turkish .students, the teams had built two vehicles, each no bigger tha!1 3() centimeters and which do it~t have wheels or any wheel-like structures. The two vehicles look J.ike products of space age techno logy and ate on view in Steinmetz. Because, the lab at Union isnotfully equipped with metric standards, each pair of students had to build one model but only vehicle per team was admitted into the contest. The final part ofthe project was a trip to Turkey to meet the other students and submit their designs. The students had to defend their designs in front of a jury and al- low the vehicles to perform .in a con'lpetition which was reportc~d by the national press in TL1rkey. Despite any communication hin- drances, both teams placed in the top oftheir divisions. At the end ----- fl/uy.'i.Wiion. sat w n. .\c:~a. of the co-mpetition the students were able to travel to Istanbul with their Turkish counterparts and do a bit of traveling. For the students, the project was especially' challenging be- cause of the·lcgistics involved. They needed to: figure out when to comrriunicateba'>ed on the time d'i fference and the best way to convey their information be it over the phone, e~maii, or the video cmnmm.i.ication system set up on the computer. Even ·though the project was so difficult, the stu~ents came out of it feeling that they had learned a great deal and had been partof an important ex- perience. ForBrian, \What re- ally mad·e the project complete and gratifying was traveling to Turkey for the competition. That really topped it off and was re- ally a big part of the learning pro- cess, especially in tennsofthe in- ternational aspect\. Professor Bucinell hopes to continue this project next year, ·hopefully with other foreign countries: He also hopes that the technology they have put together in the design studio will be help- ful tootherdiscipl1nes, especially with the completion of the 01 in Building. Although he stressed !hat this would not take the place of a tenn abroad, it would be a good opportunity for an engineer- ing student who might not other- wise be able to travel or work with a forei-gn student. Tl;'lis program would also b'e useful for these who had been studying abroad and would want to continue work- ing via this technology. t·ompucl disc:.\.li\'c: .o;/wu :\. ('US.\f!//eJ, l'ii~VJ Jp ~­ /! \singk•.\. (y· tupt'.\ .\'Ill'.\ ~UT11t:Hf.'>_\'.\h'lll.\ 11WI'it:.\' & _,huolin/kung fu nun·ie.o; ul.w \'illyllp 1 :\. J ]\ llll}.dc:s & e~n~c::wrie.\ all atlht• \\'·\'price:. . 1 Houses/ Apartments 1997-1998:3 to 8 Bedrooms, All appliances, Parking, Remodeled, Carpet. c a I I 3 7· 0 - S 4 9 8 Asthma Research Asthma is a chronic respiratory d!sorder characterized by coughing, wheezing, and shortness of breath. We are dedicated to evaluating investigational drugs for the inflammation and obstruc- tioll found in the lungs oft hose with asthma. We need asthmatics, age 4-70 years. to help evaluate res eart:h medications. They must be non-smokers and in good health. Participants will receive a fre.e asthma evaluation, related care, and the opportunity to learn more about theor asthma. Th>()se qualified will receive study medication and be paid. These studies are (On ducted under tbe s11pe.rvision ofa board certified allergist and clinical immunologist in a private setting. __ ........., __ ~--- For further information call 452-2510 Monday-Friday SAM to 5PM or 1·800-363-3464 ------~ -------------- Allergy & Asthma Center of Albany Med 215 Washington Ave. Ext Albany, NY 12205 Albany Medical College Division of Allergy Excellence in Patient Care and Clinical Researclr

OP/ED ·. - .. · ' 'illl!c illnw:nri'riensis · February 27,-1997 · Page 6 EDITORIAL Why Uis GREAT It has been suggested to us by some well-meaning friends that to be a little negative. So in the spirit of happiness, we suppose owe the cheerful students of Union Co liege a \happy editorial.\ one thinks of positive things, winter term at Union Col l\\''ct<>i·nhr does come to mind. Having said that, it should be no probl think of some great thin~s to say a.bout Union, its prime ,_..,...,.,. ... u. student body and awesome administration. Let's start with the first acomplishrnent of the week: hazing. glad to say that with the help of Tri-Delt and their well-meant hazing sheets we have managed to stamp outthat nasty practice. , many fraternity and son>rity members (you know who are, right kids?·-they're the cleancut-looking cool folks aAti-hazing pins on their bags) have long since abandoned their. lor~lctll;;e ofhazing. Just yesterday, in fact, a staff member walked by a tor:garnz~ltlc'n that in the past was somewhat notorious for their ~'~\'\''n'[)'• IPnlcuces, Our alert staff member heard loud chantimg. She quickly lconr<>n,n to action to find out what was going on. Much to our relief, is was a case of jumping to conclusions. It seems that one of. !Dr,otn:ers was simr>ly chastising a friend for only getting a B- on Yep, the times they are a' changin'. 6'}';. Reason number two: Union is just ducky: the administration · on the ball. It seems President Hull was seen TWICE msm:t~u on campus. Not only has our fearless leader been on cam itseemshe'sreally trying to get his finger on the \pulse of Union ,.,._\'\'\''\._\··\ Wedonote'Venthinksuch interaction is necessary as· Pre:srd.ent already has demonstrated on several occasions that . •vn'-.\\' what goes on at Union. After all this is the same guy who at'ter the whole Tri- '\\'~t .. \versy last year finally realized hazing might occur here ion. Plus, we personally like him because, as he is quick to he has curbed his urge to smoke cigars so that he wouldn't lti'w·r.Pri to \make decisions in a smoke-tilled room.\ With a •n.;~ 1 '·~P and wit like f1ull on our campus it's no wonder that '\\'''\'\'''\\' 1 ife here flourishes. This brings us to our next point: tree thoughtand onP.n--mllne1,f\.llTlef;.sJ contdgious-atll.ni:l!in. New ideas-and fresh viewpoints.on political fJss:ue;~;~ll'0SPr.ti. ~aa:m~~iiJ<:e wildfireJ1~re on campus. Not a day goes by this campus without groups of Union students spontaneously to engage in healthy debate about the tqpics that will shape 1st-Century America. In short, Union is near perfec.t, and we the members of the Editorial .... \.\'\\ hope like hell nothing changes. The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Adrian MacLean, Anthony C. LaVecchia, EDITORS-IN-CHJEF David Pinkowitz Diana Sedita EXECUT'IVE J::DJTORS Conor McKenzie MANAGING EDITOR Steph~nie Slobotkin NEWS EDITOR Aileen Quigley ASSIST.AJVT NEWS EDITOR Larry Paska ARTS& ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR Jonathan Gasthalter Frank Rossi SPORTS EDITOR..'\ Michelle Tham FEA TV RES EDITOR Suzanne Dougherty CiUJHAL NJtW,'I' EDITOR Tatiana Cogevina Andy Fradkin ('OMJ>UTER MANAGERS Jared Richman· 1:'/)JTOR!AL CAR1'00N!ST Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Amy DiBattista Jennifer Pelose COPY EDITOR..~ Laurie Kirschner PHOTO EDITOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Rick Lederer, Michelle B-rick, Maria Guinle, Laurel Ruma The UNSAID COLUMNISTS: Marty Metz Kenneth Blaszka . STAFF: Josh Adarns, Anjali Balasingham, Kelen :Bart, Jamie Chandler, Kara Christian, Shana Dangelo, Whitney Davis, Brandon Declet; Gabriela Dory,Jeff Druzba, Jason Ev~rett, Erinn Gregg,.NaliniGupta; Caroline Hepner~ Erika Mancini, Bhavani Medtui, Jody Mousseau, Rich Nespola, Michelle Neier, Frank Rossi, Matt Sandlerj Akin Sawyycr, Aaron Sicotte, Rawson Thurber, Micl!elle Vanderloon 0 • • tnzons TH!NK VJ£ OJG.JJT TO TAKE\ CA~lr OF THOSG\ DIGSEL FUMtiS? .. \NH ~? TH~I\SB~sms \NE' Fou~J) 1fAS1.tr Bcffl'ERED ~\l YONE. Wait, Are We Reading Anything? Robert Cohen Contributing Writer Obviously, if you are reading this, you are reading something. There was a good point brought up last week in the op-ed section about my hateful criticisms ofl ife here. This point was that any col- umn ~uch as mine «become soap- boxes. for repetitive complaining, · lose their purpose and therefore take up space.\ I agree, some- what. Somewhere in the vastness of our life here, my columns are destructive, counterproductive, childish complaints, etc .. The only thing I question is the use of purpose in this sentence, and more importantly the phrase \lose their purpose.\ The purpose of this piece is to tlgure out ifthere is any purpose to my writing. The article to which this criti- cism steams 'w,pearedtwo weeks ago (Feb. 13 1 Page 7) and was in titled \Wait Did l Miss Some- thing?\ I guess in order to under- stand anything about this article, you have to understand where I was sitting at the time. I am not going to get into specifics, but winter tenn here is pretty depress- ing. I have no idea why this is the case, but I am sure probably ev- eryone can attest to this phenom- enon. So I was depressed, and as the term winds down, I tee! this de- pression being lifted. My close friends thought that the article was a cry for help and that 1 was in danger ofhurting myself. Since tha,t has alw~ys been the case, 1 blew them offand told them, «t don't really mean it.\ I guess at the time, I did mean everything I said in that artic'le, now 1 just agree with it. Much to 111y sur- prise, 'I received ,counttess-e-:rnails and wor'ds of praise on that par- tie~:ilar artick. 1 certainly did not expect people to be cm1gtatulat~ ing me on my suicide threat within the ar:ticl.e (though there. are those who wouldn 'tmind it), but there had to besomethi.ng else that people were able to relate to within that article. l guess I found out that I am not the only one in that boat that travels the. sea of uncertainty. While sotne people thought they were not reading anything, others thought that they were reading something. The number one purpose be- hind my writing is that I would like to change some people's dis- position about life here. By say- ing what I think is wrong it might prompt other people to change it, I know that I am not the only per- son here with qualrns about life here. Ifyou do not have any prob- lems with life here, I think you should seriously examine yot~r exist~nce. Do articles like mine ''lose their purpose?\ I do believe they lose purpose just be~;:ause they are negative, they instead bdng to light somethingthatsome people around her~ would rather not be discussed. What better way to bring them to light then in the student newspaper. I have tried tny best not to re- f~r to the. letter P:ltlblished last week frequently because aft;er e- mailing with the author, I found out h.e was just ticked off about . the: negative coverage the paper gives to this campus. (And I just happen to fall into that category.) I guess the paper, for all its nega- tivity, reports what its writers see and feel about the campus. But as for the loss of purpose, this does not e~ist just because people re- port negatively aboutthe campus. lt does not mean their observa- tions are invalid. As to the question \Are We Reading Anything?,\ like I said before, if you are reading this you are reading something, what you are reading, as always, depends upon you. As to the accusatiOil of taking up space. well anybody who works for the paper knows that is always a good thing. My final thought on this sub- ject is simple: negativity begets change. Over somepe' topic d (namely end,Acl another the spec the hod The r:i a larger beaddn Preside: holds t demics such'~~: Preside asucce Preside sentbo along1 Len money acaden enhanc years ( lion wi Weha' millior At colurr found hers c ticula callec suret butio· draw1 orful' mits1 a bit case' edit1 Cone Tom tone foun the ( whir the~ hazi1 witl Wel PulJ RE1 F: tors and ben Thi rei a alre sor hO\ the mo era ing the eft kir ch: de bb ov Ot 0

EDITORIAL Why Uis GREAT It has been suggested to us by some well-meaning friends that we tend to be a little negative. So in the spirit of happiness, we suppose we owe the cheerful students ofUnion College a \happy editorial.\ When one thinks of positive things. winter term at Union College certainly does come to mind. Having said that., it should be no problem to think of some great things to say about Union. its prime location, witty student body and awesome admi 11i strati on Let's start with the first acomplishmcnt ofthe week hazing. We me glad to say· that with the help of rri-Delt and their well-meant little hazing sheets we have managed te> stamp out that nasty practice. Apparently. many fraternity and sorority mcmhers (you know who thev are. right kids')--they're the cleancut-looking cool folks with the anti-hazing pins on their hags) havt: long since abandoned their practice of hazing Just yesterday. in fact. a staff mcmhcr walked by a Greek organization that in the past was someV;hat notorious for their hazing practices Our alert staff member heard loud chanting. She quickly sprang to action to tlnd out what was going on. Much to our relict: this was a case ofjumping to conclusions It seems that one of the brothers was simply chastising a friend for only getting a 8- on a test. Yep, the times they are a' changin'. Reason number two: Union is just ducky: the administration is really on the baiL It seems President Hull was seen TWICE this past week on campus. Not only has our fc~rlcss leader been on campus, but it seems he's really trying to get his finger on the \pulse of Union students\ We do not even think such interaction is necessary as our President already has demonstrated on several occasions that he knows what goes on at Union. After all this is the same guy who after the whole Tri-Delt controversy last year finally realized hazing might occur here at Union. Plus, we persot1ally like him because. as he is quick to point out, he has curbed his urge to smoke cigars so that he wouldn't be forced to \make decisions in a smo1<e-filled room.\ With a great thinker and wit like Hull on our campus it's no wonder that our intellectual I i fe here 11 ourishes. This brings us to our next point: free thought and open-mindedness are contagious at Union. New ideas and rresh viewpoints on political issues are spreading like wildfire hereon campus. Not a day goes by on this campus without groups of lJnion students spontaneously gathering to engage in healthy debate about the topics that will shape 21st-Century America. In short. Union is near perfect, and VIe the members ofthe Editorial Board hope like hell nothing changes The Student Newspaper of Union College Since /877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Adrian MacLean, Anthony('_ La V l'cchia, f:'J)/TORS-J:V-tHT EF David Pinkowitz Diana Sedita FXH'll'fll'l~· U>IIIJR.'·! Conor McKenzil' MANAGJN(i J:'f)f7UN. Stephanie Slobotkin Nh'W,'-,' J:'!JI'l¥ JR Aileen Quigley ASS/,)'TANT Nh\W.\' FDriOR Larry Paska A]{JS & l:N7hR7AI.\'AfF.NT /:'/ )J70R Jonathan Gasthalter Frank Rossi SPOR1S /:\l)J70RS Michelle Tham fEA TV RES EDITOR Suzanne Dougherty ( i/.0/iAJ. NFWS f:'J)!TOR Tatiana Cogevina Andy Fradkin COMI'l !11:'R MANAUJ~R.\' Jared Richman J:\JJ/lOJUAI. CAJ?'IOON/,'l'T Scott Scullion FAl ·r !/.TY Af)VJSOR Amy DiBattista Jennifer Pelose COPY hD11W?S Laurie Kirschner PH01V HDITOR J'H(}Jr)(iNAI'fii:RS Rick Lederer, Michelle Brick, Maria Guinle, Laurel Ruma The ( !NSAJI) ( '01.1 IMN/SJ:\'.· Marty Metz Kennetb Blaszka SJAFF · .Josh Adams. An.iali Balasingllam, Kelen Barr, Jamie Chandler, Kara Christian, Shana Dangelo, Whitney Davis, Brandon Declet, Gabriela Dory, .Jeff Druzba, ,JasoJt Everett, Erinn Gregg, Nalini Gupta, Caroline Hepner, Erika Mancini~ Bhavani Meduri, Jody Mousseau, Rich Nespola, Michelle Neier, Frank Rossi, Matt Sandier, Akin Sawyyer, Aaron Sicotte, Rawson 1'1mrber, Michelle Vanderloon Opinions ... Ll6RA-R~ rr- 1l THINK WE OOGI-ir TO TAK£ CARG OF THOS~ DIESEL FUI'\~~? \NH'f? 111~ ASI?£sms \N£ FOuND IJASN'T &ll1\ER6D A.'\!YDNt. Wait, Are We Reading Anything? Robert Cohen Contributing Writer Obviously, if you are reading this, you are reading something. There was a good point brought up lastVJeek in the op-ed section about 1ny hateful criticismsoflife here. This point was that any col- umn such as mine \become S()ap- boxesfor repetitive complaining, lose their purpose and therefore take up space.\ I agree, some- what. Somewhere in the vastness of our I ife here, my columns are destructive, counterproductive, childish complaints, etc .. !he only thing I question is the t.1se of purp<Jse in this sentence, and more importantly the phrase \lose their purpose.\ The purpose of this piece is to figure out ifthere is any purpose to my writing The article to which this criti- cism steams appeared two 'veeks ago (Feb 13th Page 7) and was in titled \Wait Did I Miss S()me- thing'P'I guess in order to under- stand anything about this article. you have to understand where I was sitting at the time I a1n not going to get into specifics, but \Vinter tenn here is pretty depress- ing I have no idea why this is the case, but I am sure probably ev- erye>ne can attest to this phenom- enon So I was depressed, and as the term winds down, I feel this de- pression being lifted My close friends thought that the article was a cry for help and that I was in danger ofhurting myself Since that has always been the case, I blew them off and told them, \I don't really mean it\ I guess at the time, I did mean everything I said in that article, now I just agree with it. Much to my sur- prise. ·1 received countless e-m ails and words of praise on that par- ticu'!ar article. I certain I y did not expect people to be congratulat- ing me on my suicide threat within the article (though there are those who wouldn't mind it). but there had to be something else that people were able to relate to within that article. I guess I found out that I am not the only one in that boat that travels the sea of uncertainty While some people thought they were not reading anything. others thought that they were reading something. The number one purpose be- hind my writing is that I would like to change some people's dis- position a bout I i fc here By say- ing what I think is wrong it might prompt other people to change it I know that I am not the only per- son here with qualms about life here. If you do not have m1y prob- lems with I ife here. I think you should seriously examine your existence Do articles like mine \lose their purpose?\ I do believe they lose purpose just because they are negative, they instead bring to light something that some people around here would rather not be discussed. What better way to bring them to light then in the student newspaper. I have tried my best not tore- fer to the letter published last week frequently because after e- mailing with the author, I found out he was just ticked off about the negative coverage the paper gives to this campus. (And I just happen to fall into that category.) I guess the paper, for all its nega- tivity, reports what its writers see and feel about the campus. But as for the loss of purpose, this does not exist just because people re- port negatively about the campus. It does not mean their observa- tions are invalid. As to the question \Are We Reading Anything'~,\ like I said before, ifyou are reading this you are reading something. what you are reading. as ahvays. depends upon you As to the accusal ion of taking up space. well anybody who works for the paper knows that is always a good thing. My final thought on this sub- ject is simple: negativity begets change. L,etters Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the • MGrtday before publicati()n. Letters must be less than 5-0(} words and snould pertain to an issue that. cotlcernsthe Union Collegec01mnunity. Finaf clecisions concen1ing printing and/or editing a subrnission . belot1g to. the Editorial ~(lard. Allldters must be signed and saved on a high density disk although the autll()r's t'latne need not appear hi the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily · reflect the opinion oftl1e Editorial Board. Editorials retlectthe opinion of a majority ofthe Editorial Board, and no one t'l'lentber .in particular .• · Any {)pinion columns, e>r <:artoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the . opinions of the Editorial Bl'>ard. - Advertisements appeari 11g in The Concordiensis do n-ot necessarily reflectthe ·opinion ofthe Editorial • Boatd. Tile Concordiensis is. printed by World Med.ia, 1104 Central Avenue,. Albany, NY, 12205. The Concordiensis Sllbscrih.es t(:) the lntercolle.giate Press {l,P}, National Student News Service, & King, . Syn·dicates. Ove somep topic (namel end, A· anothe the spt the ho~ The alarg<.: be add Presid holds demic such' Presid asucc Presic senth alon~ Let mone acad<.: enhar years lion v Weh millie A colu foun bers ticul call€ sure buti dra' orft mit a bi cast edi Co1 Tm ton fou the wh the ha.i WI W< Pu RE tot an be Tl re all so he th m er tr tl e· k c d b 0 ( (

Page 7 ·January 27, 1997 · 'ill!p· <!Ioncoroirns1~ . . . OP/ED Opinion Are Athletic FacilitieS Becoming Union's Achilles? F:rllnkRo~si 17 million),the Olin Building ($8 Sports Editor milliOJl through a grant), and Over the past two monthS, some people haye driventhe rink topic deep into th,~ ground (namely, me} 1his past week- end, AchillesRink was treated to another weekend.ofhockey with the specter of uncertainty facing the hockey teams and fans. The rink, however, has hidden a larger problem which needs to be addressed. A fewweeks back, President Hull suggested· that he holds Union athletics and aca- demics as equally important. If such '~equal treatment\ is what President Hull wants us to use as a success gauge for his teruue as President, he would have been sent home on \Dean's Vacation\ a long time ago. Let's measure the amount of moneywhichhasbeen spent on academic fadlities in \major\ enhancements over the last ten years (any project over $2 mil- lion will be considered ''tnajor\). We have the NuttMemorial ($11 million), Schaffer Library ($14to Yulrttan Theater ($5tnil'lion). · Don't get me wrong. These projects are f.ine, and as a serious student, I can see their practical- ity. Howe:ver, we attend a school witharound 50-percent participa~ tion in athletics. Ofthe haW that do not participate, about half, in my estimatioil, attend events to root 011 their classmates. This means there is around a 75-per- cent involvement rate on this campus for athletics. After adding the academic projects listed (over$38million); let's 1 ist the major athletics projects .... That was quick. No athletic facility in the past ten years has received a thajor en- hancement. The basement of the Memorial Fieldhouse was reno- vated, Bailey Field received a new carpet, the pool was fixed, and Achilles got a new roof. Add theseup, and you mightreach$5 million. $38 millionvs. $5 million. The argument will arise that we are not here for athletics, and athletics money would come at a cost to academics. However, Union l1as been offered endorsements from at least two national corporatiofls, Nike and Pepsi. President Hull thinks that since Harvard does not accept commercial endorsements, Union should not. President Hull, I applied to Harvard, f have seen the endowment fund ofHarvard, and Presid~nt Hull, I am sorry to say, UnionisnoHarvard. What is the difference between Frank Achilles donating a large amount o.f money (getting his name placed on a building) and a \swoosh\ placed on a jersey or a rec;l, white,andbluecolaemblem placed on a hockey sideboard? The differences are smaller than people think. When athletics touch such a large portion of the studentbody and school reputation, it is neces- sary to put some effort in to im- prove these facilities. When I went to Cheel Arena at Clarkson a few weeks back, I thought to myself, \lfl were a hockey player, this facility would sell me on this school.,, The longer we let the facilities deteriorate, the more in ... coming students will begin to wonder about Union's dedication to athletics. The Fieldhouse is a substan- dard facility to most, Bailey Field's \temporary stands\ from 1984 are ahnost old enough to file for a driver's permit, and we all know about thewoes of Achi!les. At Alumni Gym, overcrowded is· an understatement at times. Fi ... nally, forcing students to wake up at 5 AM to get a practice slot in the Fieldhouse is ridiculous. Use the Achilles situation as an exarnple of what can happen if you just watch an athletics facil- ity crumble. The administration had the ability to fix things for several years (especially ifa rink endowment was utilized prop- erly). Instead, we are in a situa- tion where we .must spend up to $2.5 million on the rink because no new facility can be built in time for next season (it is only seve11 montl1s until next season's hockey practices). President Hull said during the \'Crossta-lk\ that $2 million is tough ·to raise to upgrade Achil- les. Well, things just do not add up. Somewhere between en- dorsements, preventative mea- sures, and spreading out funds more evenly between athletics and academics, this problem could have been avoided. There are some things which can be taken care of in the near future, such as a varsity weigllt room (under the rink) and new stands for the football field. There are some things which we need to start looking at, but wh.ich will take a longer time, such as Fieldhouse enhancements and in- door practice spae;e. President Hull, I urge you to take a step back 11nd look at our sports facilities. Ask yourself this~· As a student-athlete, would I be satisfied withthe current state .of facilities?\ If your answer is yes, then I would ask for a re- sponse in next we;ek 's Concordy. Ifyou agree wit'll'!ltte. then please act before we have to start \weighing\ whetbe.r it is smarter to move another facility off cam~ pus instead of renovating it. The Way It Is--Get Your Head Out Of. .. by Jared Richman Staj[Cartoonist A two week hiatus from my column must have had a pro- found impact on the other mem ... bers of the Conoordy staff, par- ticularly one Larry Paska, the so- called Arts Editor. While I atn sure that some of my past contri~ butions to the newspaper have drawn many, shall we say \'col- orful\ responses, even I can ad ... mit sometimes my logic has been a bit out of whack. Such is the case with Mr. Paska' s letter to the editor of last week, 'The Concordiensis Needs a Change in Tone.\ Mr. Paska feels that the tone of The Concordiensis is pro- foundly pessimistic and that all the editors seem to proniote is whining and complaining about the same boring issues, such as hazing, Greek life, dissatisfaction with the administration, etc. Well, in the w(lrds of Jules from Pulp Fiction, •'ALLOW ME TO RETORT!\ First, you suggest that the edi- tors stop voicing.student concern and focus on the school's many benefits. HELLO SPARKY?!! This publication is not a public relations br<Jchure. The college already spends enough on that oh so pretty alumni magazine (funny how President Hull can address the alumni and our parents every month but not us) as well as sev- eral other types ofcollegerecruit ... ing propaganda designed to hide the faults and promote the ben- efits of a Union education, the kind of drivel that limits positive changes and keeps everyone in denial. Let the administration blow sunshine up its own .... er,.you get the idea. The Opinions page of The Concordiensis is one ofthe few outlets for student frustrations and rate description. There are prob- view, then you should have exer- ex:ists as a sounding board for stu~ lems with this school, and they cised your right as a seniormem- dentsentiment. Theveryfactthat must be addressed, fiercely and ber ofthestaffand addressed the itexists.allowedyeutovoiceyour . incessantlyifnecessary. Change •. problem to the,editoria:l board .. . warped opinion-you should be does n()t come easy, it must be . They are sLtq)risirigly open to glad. cultivated in a persistent and de- REASON. Writing a letter bad- Second, every •!issue,\ you termined manner-Unio11 may mouthing the very organization to listedhasbeendebatedintheOp- not be Berkeley, but studentac- which you belong makes you Ed section oftheConeordy. Let's tivism exists and your attempt to look like a veritable fool, my see .. .l don't recall any of these trivialize certain issues as boring friend. Your name is on this pa- ···pessimistic\ letters in any other and pessimistic classifies you as per, and whether you like itornot, section of the paper. thesametypeofcattlewhowould it reflects YOU. Degrading the Hmm .... perhapsthatisthewhole behappytojusthaveyourliferun paper degrades you-it was a reason for having such a section! for you. cowardly act and certainly not the Lar, my good man, obviously Lastly, Lar, let me just say that best way to make a change, The these issues concern a great many you are an editor for this paper, fact that you hold an editorial people--the fact that they appear and if you felt that the tone of this position makes me question your over and over again is a sign that publication did not fit your ideal true involvement in the paper. The Concordiens:is does not need a \change in tone,\ but you may need to change your shorts from . ,time to .tiwre,:f,eause:something:. ,[: · stiF~ks·:· hirt' distt-essed'tiiE~t a: stu;.)'·.·,, dent of your impeccable moral character and kindness could be so narrow minded, particularly in your harsh review ofthe new ~er- sion ofStar War:s ... Comments? We all have them ... keep yours to yourself. Due to that pesky little first amendment I 'rn forced to allow you to respond. Drop me a vir- tual line at richmanj@idol.union.edu. they are not only relevant, but that r---------------~--------------------. something has to be done!! Problems, unlike bad movie re- views, do not just go away by themselves. And, as a matter of fact.,.......,every other section just reeks of optimistic propaganda bonking the horn of some Theme House or Greek organization for their earth shattering philanthro- pies, or some touting the great success of our sports teams, or even those stimulating «Arts\ ar- ticles (none of which I have ever seen you review a theater produc- tion or art exhibitien) that chal- lenge the intellect with heated debates over the Oscar race. There's enough back patting • 0 • around here as tt IS. Furthermore, you seem, pathetically I might add, to take what I call the \ostrich approach\ to life. Your advice '\Don't want to put up with hazing? quit pledging ... don 't like Union, trans- fer,\ says y<;m, d rather ignore real problems because they don't con- cern you, thus you want to go along in life with your head stuck in the sand-or perhaps '\up'' someplace even closer to your own body may be a more accu- Are Professors Making the Grade? Dear Editor: I am writing this letter to de- scribe my outrage at some c;:>fthe faculty here at Union College. 1 feel that some members. of the faculty (in various departments) have failed as educators. These so~called professors are not inter- ested in intellectualism and learn- ing; these professors aJe only concerned with getting the job done as. easily as they can. Two years ago when I was a sophomore, I had a class with a tenured professor. She returned a test that I had taken, without any comments. I proceeded to meet with her during her scheduled office hours. She told me that she was not sure that I meant what I had written in my essay, and that was why I was deducted points. When I pressed the matter, she told me that she had been ex- haasted from teaching the previ- ous term; and that she bad de- cided before thattenn started that she wasn't going to ptlt as much effort into her classes. Excuse me? Did I come here for an edu- cation? Am I not paying over $25,000 a year to attend this in- stitution of higher learning? Per~ haps it is some faculty to blame that Union College is n~w a coun- try dub! Recently, a fellow classmate at- tended a Feview session with me. She was told by the professor (and I use that tenn loosely) that the professor would not answer her questions. I was astounded. The professor continued to act in a condescending manner to that classmate. I recommended that the professor be brought up on conduct charges, but the student would have no part of it. Am 1 wrong to assume that a professor works for his/her money? Am I wrong to assume that professors are indebted to their students~ that the professors should be delighted when a stu- dent wishes to pursue intellectu- alism? Perhaps it is the fault of some of the faculty that Union College students are more con- cerned with parties than they an: with academics. Perhaps the stu· dents have learn;ed the whole apa thy problem from some profes· sors. In that case, the professors have taught a valuable lesson: do not do as the t-eacher does-do better and do your job! I apologize to those faculty members who have made effort~ to raise the level of intellectual ism on this campus. Many mem- bers of the faculty are valuable for their knowledg;e, talents, and will- ingness to teach. Others cant be: bothered. l urge students to take advan· tage of those professors \.Vho are dedicated to il'ltellectual pursuits. I also urge stwdents to press con- duct charges ()n professors whc treat their students poorly, with out manners, and without res-pect I hope the two professors l havt I isted herein !;earn from their stu- dents or decide to retire. Yours, Myles A. Kdlam

. , . : I , , , . ~ . . , . . .. , . ( . . , . . ·Page 7 · January 27,. 1997 · '<!U1e QI~.nrcndtfeusis · .· . . . · · . ... . .· ·. · . . · · . ' · ... . · ·. · ·· .... : · · OP/'E.D . ' .. . ~. ' . . ' . . , . . . . ' . ' . ' ' '\ . . ' . . ' . . ' . . ' . . \ . . . ''. . Opinion Are Athletic Facilities Becoming Union's Achilles? Frank Rossi Sports Editor Over the past two months, some people have driven the rink topic deep into the ground (namely, me). This past week~ end, Achilles Rink was treated to another weekend of hockey with the specter ofuncertainty facing the hockey teams and fans. The rink, however, has hidden a larger problem which needs to be addressed. A few weeks back, President HuU suggested that he holds Union athletics and aca- demics as equally important. If such \equal treatment\ is what President Hull wants us to use as a success gauge for his tenure as President, he would have been sent home on \Dean's Vacation\ a long time ago. Let's measure the atnount of money which has been spent on academic facilities in \major\ enhancements over the last ten years (any project over $2 mil- l ion will be considered \major\). We have the Nott Memorial ($11 million), Schaffer Library ($14 to 17 million), the Olin Building ($8 million through a grant), and Yulman Theater ($5 million). Don't get me wrong. These projects are fine, and as a serious student, I can see their practical- ity. However, we attend a school with around 50-percent participa- tion in athletics. Ofthe halfthat do not participate, about half, in my estimation, attend events to root on their classmates. This means there is around a 75-per- cent involvement rate on this campus for athletics. After adding the academic projects listed (over $38 million), let's list the major athletics projects .... That was quick. No athktic facility in the past ten years has received a major en- hancement. The basement ofthe Memorial Fieldhouse was reno- vated, Bailey Field received a new carpet, the pool was fixed, and Achilles got a new roof. Add these up, and you might reach $5 million. $3 8 million vs. $5 million. The argument will arise that we are not here for athletics, and athletics money would come at a cost to academics. However, Union has been offered endorsements from at least two national corporations, Nike and Pepsi. President Hull thinks that since Harvard does not accept commercial endorsements, Union should not. President Hull, I applied to Harvard, I have seen the endowment fund of Harvard, and President Hull, I an'l sorry to say, Union is no Harvard. What is the difference between Frank Achilles donating a large amount of money (getting his name placed on a building) and a \swoosh\ placed on a jersey or a red, white, and blue cola emblem placed on a hockey sideboard? The differences are smaller than people think. When athletics touch such a large portion of the student body and school reputation, it is neces- sary to put some effort in to im- prove these facilities. When l went to Cheel Arena at Clarkson a few weeks back, I thought to myself, \lfl were a hockey player, this facility would sell me on this school.\ The longer we let the facilities deteriorate, the more in- coming students will begin to wonder about Union's dedication to athletics. The Fieldhouse is a substan- dard facility to most, Bailey Field's \temporary stands\ from 1984 are almost old enough to file for a driver's permit, and we all know about the woes of Achilles. At Alumni Gym, overcrowded is an understatement at times. Fi- nally, torcing students to wake up at 5 AM to get a practice slot in the Fieldhouse is ridiculous. Use the Achilles situation as an example of what can happen if you just watch an athletics facil- ity crumble. The administration had the ability to fix things for several years ( especia:lly if a rink endowment was utilized prop- erly). Instead, we are in a situa- tion where we must spend up to $2.5 million on the rink because no new facility can be built in time for next season (it is only seven months until next season's hockey practices). President Hull said during the \'Crosstalk\ that $2 million is tough to rais.e to upgrade Achil- les. Well, things just do not add up Somewhere between en- dorsements, preventative mea- sures, and spreading out funds more evenly between athletics and acadernics, this problem could have been avoided. There are some things which can be taken care of in the near future, such as a varsity weight room (under the rink) and new stands fort11efootbaU t!eld. There are some things which we need to start looking at, but which will take a ton ger time, such as Fieldhouse ea han cements and in- door practice space. President Hull, I urge you to take a step 'tack and look at our sports facilities. Ask yourself this; \As a student-athlete, would I be satisfied with the current state of facilities 'l\ If your answer is yes, then I would ask for a re- sponse in nex:.t week's Concordy. If you agree with me, then please act before we have to start \weighing\ whether it is smarter to move an<Jther facility otT cam- pus instead of renovating it The Way It Is--Get Your Head Out Of. .. by Jared Richman Staff Cartoonist A two week hiatus from my column must have had a pro- found impact on the other mem- bers of the Concordy staff, par- ticularly one Larry Paska, the so- called Arts Editor. While I am sure that some of my past contri- butions to the newspaper have drawn many, shall we say \col- orful\ responses, even I can ad- mit sometimes my logic has been a bit out of whack. Such is the case with Mr. Paska's letter to the editor of last week, \The Concordiensis Needs a Change in Tone.\ Mr. Paska feels that the tone of The Concordiensis is pro- foundly pessimistic and that all the editors seem to promote is whining and complaining about the same boring issues, such as hazing, Greek life, dissatisfaction with the administration, etc. WelL in the words of Jules from Pulp Fiction, '\ALLOW ME TO RETORT!\ First, you suggest that the edi- tors stop voicing student concern and focus on the school's many benefits. HELLO SPARKY?!! This publication is not a public relations brochure. The college already spends enough on that oh so pretty alumni magazine (funny how President Hull can address the alumni and our parents every month but notus) as well as sev- eral other types of college recruit- ing propaganda designed to hide the faults and promote the ben- efits of a Union education, the kind of drivel that limits positive changes and keeps everyone in denial. Let the administration blow sunshine up its own ... er ... you get the idea. The Opinions page of The Concordiensis is one of the few outlets for student frustrations and exists as a sounding board for stu- dent sentiment. The very fact that it exists allowed you to voice your warped opinion-you should be glad. Second, every \issue you I isted has been debated in the Op- Ed section ofthe Concordy. Let's see ... I don't recall any of these '\pessimistic\ letters in any other section of the paper. Hmm .... perhaps that is the whole reason for having such a section! Lar, my good man, obviously these issues concern a great many people-the fact that they appear over and over again is a sign that they are not only relevant, but that something has to be done!! Problems, unlike bad movie re- views, do not just go away by themselves. And, as a matter of fact-every other section just reeks of optimistic propaganda honking the hom of some Theme House or Greek organization for their earth shattering philanthro- pies, or some touting the great success of our sports teams, or even those stimulating\ Arts\ ar- ticles (none of which I have ever seen you review a theater produc- tion or art exhibition) that chal- lenge the intellect with heated debates over the Oscar race. There's enough back patting around here as it is. Furthermore, you seem, pathetically I might add, to take what I call the \ostrich approach\ to 1 if e. Your advice \Don't want to put up with hazing? quit pledging. don't I ike Union, trans- fer,\ says you'd rather ignore real problems because they don't con- cern you, thus you want to go along in life with your head stuck in the sand-or perhaps \up\ someplace even closer to your own body may be a more accu- rate description. There are prob- lems with this school, and they must be addressed, fiercely and incessantly ifnecessary. Change does not come easy, it must be cultivated in a persistent and de- termined manner-Union may not be Berkeley, but student ac- tivism exists and your attempt to trivialize certain issues as boring and pessimistic classifies you as the same type of cattle who would be happy to just have your 1 ife run for you. Lastly, Lar, let me just say that you are an editor for this paper, and if you felt that the tone of this publication did not fit your ideal view, then you should have exer- cised your right as a senior mem- ber of the staff and addressed the problem to the editorial board. They are surprisingly open to REASON Writing a letter bad- mouthing the very organization to which you belong makes you look like a veritable fool, my friend. Your name is on this pa- per, and whether you I ike it or not, it reflects YOU. Degrading the paper degrades you-it was a cowardly act and certainly not the best way to make a change. The fact that you hold an editorial position makes me question your true involvement in the paper. The Conco-rdiensis does not need a \change in tone,\ but you may need to change your shorts from time to time, 'cause something stinks. J! am dis tressed that a stu- dent of your impeccable moral character and kindness could be so narrow 111 inded, particularly in your harsh review ofthe new ver- sion of SJ!Ir Wars Comments? We all have them ... keep yours to yourself Due to that pesky little first amendment I'm forced to allow you to respond. Drop me a vtr- tual I i ne at richmanj@idol.union.edu. Are Professors Making the Grade? Dear Editor: I am writing this letter to de- scribe my outrage at some of the faculty here at Union College. I feel that some members of the faculty (in various departments) have failed as educators. These so-called professors are not inter- ested in intellectualism and learn- ing; these professors are only concerned with getting the job done as easily as they can. Two years ago when I was a sophomore, I had a class with a tenured professor. She returned a test that I had taken, without any comments. I proceeded to meet with her during her scheduled office hours. She told me that she was not sure that I meant what 1 had written in my essay, and that was why I was deducted points. When I pressed the matter, she told me that she had been ex- hausted from teaching the previ- ous term, and that she had de- cided before that tenn started that she wasn't going to put as much effort into her classes. Excuse me? Did I come here for an edu- cation? Am I not paying over $25,000 a year to attend this in- stitution of higher learning? Per- haps it is some faculty to blame that Union College is now a coun- try club! Recently, a fellow classmate at- tended a review session with me She was told by the professor (and !use that term loosely) that the professor would not answer her questions I was astounded The professor continued to act in a condescending manner to that classmate I recommended that the professor be brought up on conduct charges, but the student would have no part of it Am I wrong to assume that a professor works for his/her money? Am I wrong to assume that professors are indebted to their students~ that the professors should be delighted when a stu- dent wishes to pursue intellectu- alism? Perhaps it is the fault of some of the faculty that Union College students are more con- cerned with parties than they are with a cad em ics. Perhaps the stu dents have learned the whole apa- thy problem from some profes sors. In that case, the professon have tau~hta valuable lesson de not do as the teacher does-de better and do your job I I apo\()gize to those facult') members who have made effort to raise the level of intellectual- ism on this campus. Many mem- bers of tlle faculty are valuable to their knowledge, talents, and will ingness to teach. Others cant he bothered 1 urge: students to take advan tage of those professors who an: dedicated to intellectual pursuits I also urge students to press con-1 duct charges on professors whd treat ttleir students poorlv, \Vith~ out manners. and without respect I I hope the two professors I hav9 I isted herein learn from their stu~ dents or decide to retire Yours, Myles A. Kellam

Page 8 ~ Febt·uary 27l 1997 · WJ1t> illotu:·nrtti~'n5i5 · · · . Fcatu res p by Co nor McKenzie Much respect goes out to the Union College Hockey Team. My home teatn, kickin' the crap out of Cornell and the Groovy UV-who would have thunk it? Union hockey is finally getting on the map, and it de.serves all the recognition it can get. In fact, I would argue tllat the hockey team deserves more respect than they're already getting from the media and from the student body. Do you fi.nd yourself a bit puzzled about how you can do something extra special for the hockey team? Are you unsure of how to increase the appreciation you already give to our team? Look no further then our own campus safety department. Be~ cause of their recent magnani- mous actions, security guards are once again found on the cutting edge of truth, justice, and pro- gressive. thinking. Sophomore. Larry Golden re~ cently returned from a hard day of work at the Manhattan Bagel. It was past seven o'clock, and he was looking forward to a restful evening at his home away from home-- Raymond North. It was the night of a hockey game, and .- God Bless Campus Safety as Larry turned his vehicle into the Raymond parking lot, only to be stopped short by a secu~ tity guard and a whitesawhorse. The security guard tried to wave him away from tbe lot, but Larry approached him anyway. h1his own words, \Ifyou found a security guard waving away from your own driveway, what would you do?\ Rolling down the window,he asked what the problem was. The security replied, \Lot's full. Park somewhere else.\ \Obviously he didn't under- stand that I lived here,\ recounts Larry. \So Hold hhn, but Ire- ceived the same reply.\ Always a social deviant 1 . Larry didn't understand that this security guard was just trying to give his parking lot away in tribm ute to our successful hockey team. Angered, he turned to the security guard told him, \I give a fl'*k about the hockey team. I don't give a f**k about the game. I just want to go home and sleep.\ Stunned by Larry's :unprec- edented lack of respect for the hockey team (or perhaps by his _,_ high beams} the security guard stood still and let Larry pass. THis generqus offering .of our parking lot to the hockey team was not an isolated incident. After talking ~:to another sopho- I;t1Qre, Barry Baker, it seems that this is act~Ja.lly ~he policy of our caf)1pus safety department. The other day, Barry was try- ing to drive to our ever-useful Reamer Ca1npu~ Center_to che.ck his mail at1d to get some money. His progress was immediately blocked by a security guard and a. sawhorse due to another hockey game in progress, as was Larry's. The guard claimed that nobody was allowed inside. Un- like Larry, Barry isn't a social de- viant, so hecomplied by parking at Fleet bankand walking to the Reamer center. As he walked in, he noticed a steady stream of cars waved in by the same security officer. Taking note, he approached the officer asking why some cars were allowed in and others, such as his, weren't. This officer, a more devoted worshiper of the hockey team, immediately got in Barry's face and said, \You were ,.,,, .. , '\'Y Loose. ~t Union by Alex Beckers Contributing Writer Last Saturday, February 22, from 4 to llpm, 14 Union Col- lege students took part in a live action role-playing game (or LARP) run by the Adventurer's Guild, Union's gaming club. A LARP is a mix: of improvisational acting and pol itica.l simulation as players take oR variou~ roles and decide how they would act in di- verse social situations. In this game, each player took ) gets closer to winter term, everyone is anxious for some time off. Whether it's going to some exotic island or staying home, most people want to relax. However, the hectic ac- tivity of picking classes looms ahead. Some of us have no idea what to take, and those people who don't read the mail they get from the school or just throw it out upon receiving it do not even know that it was time to pre- schedule for classes. We wonder what they will be doing next tenn. Finals are beginning to creep up on us like a bad dream. Soon, they will be a reality, and we will actually have to deal. Life sucks, hey? Well, just think that after you fail all your finals, you can have a week or so to relax and the part of a vampire whose ide .. ology .and goals he or she had in- vented, and played this character for nearly seven straight hours. During thistime, they interacted with each other, and with the vari- ous characters portrayed by the three students running the game, called \game masters\·or \narra- tors\. To succeed in the \quest\ assigned them by a more power- ful vampire, the players needed to solve puzzles and piece to~ gether clues, all while attempting to and social status and realize that you are on aca- demic warning or on a two-term hi at us from school. We all seem to be excited for spring term. It does not seem as though it will be too bad to be here when it is nice outside. The key seems to be to take morning classes to leave the afternoon for lyingout. Atleastthafswhatwe plan on doing. Of course, there will be plenty of studying getting it on .. .I mean going on. The worst part about the whole scheduling thing seems to be the overwhelming amount of classes that overlap. We mean, really, how many classes did you want that are miraculously all at the same time?! Moreover, they're only offered in one section. with each other. This particular game was based on The Masquer- ade game system, published by White Wolf Game Studio. Fresh1nan Jaime Garrand signed up to play because, \I'd- played other role-playinggames, and live action sounded cool.\ This was echoed by several ofthe other players. She then added, \I had a great time- I'd definitely do it again.\ One player whose character'~died\ during the course of the game, Senior Damon Bizzel · cCJtntnented that it didn't pretty sure everyone will end up taking one legitimate class that they need for their major and then two that are the on I y two offered at a con- venient tirne (think back to the morning classes versus taying out in the afternoon dilemma). It just doesn't make sense. Well, that's about it for this week. Don't forget to bundle up ... we mean get out your bath- ing suits ... we mean layer ... it might get warmer later. We ac- tually don\t know what the hell is going on, so this is Whitney and Cari signing off. We'll leave you with yet another Snaps gem-- ''Y our mother is so old she helped Moses edit down the Eighteen Commandments!\ going to park illegaHy. 1 ' that he has had a cold for the p!ISt Barry agreed and reminded bim three days, perhaps it was cough to answer his question. The se- medicine you smefled on his curity officer said something breath.'\ ab()utapole falling down over at Right. . the football field. He claimed that \I mean, I support the Campus all the. cars were full of people Safety departm~mt's efforts to of- going to evaluate the problem. ferup our roadways· and parking ''I then asked him what a 1997 lots in tribute to the hockey team Cadillac (without handicap ·every time they have a game. I plates) with four adults sporting just think they should do it in a Union Hockey apparel had to do more sober manner,\ concluded with pole repair.\ For some rea- Barry. son this question agitated these- If only Campus Safety had curity guard, but the guard still in- made their intenti~ns public. sisted they were going to fix the Then, perhaps it wouldn't have pole. He then quickly said, \You taken a conflict far me to realize couldn't have parked anyway.\ what a beautiful thing the depart- \lt was at this point that I no- ment is doing for the hockey tic.ed what I determined te be,al.:. team. The least we cando is give · cohol ;on· his breath.,· This secu- them our parking lots, I rnen- rity · guard was tioned the Campus Safety bombed ... lllcidentally ;. \vhile we department's philanthropy at my were talkiilg he waved anod1er car last house tneeting; the approval .r full of alumni with fat wallet$ oftheir actions was enthusiastic throughout the barricade. At this and unanitnous. point 1 decided to give up and go We decided to take ita step fur- back to my car. ln parting, 1 ther. wished him an enjoyable evening After applauding Campus freezing his balls off. and sug:- Safety's actions, we wondered gestedthat he drink up.\ why we could only give the When he g.ot h01ne, Barry hockey team our parking lots in called x69ll to register a com~ tribute, as we were sure there plaintagainstthesecurityofficer. must be that more we can do. He told him the story, and about After a short discussion, we.came the alcohol. he noticed on his up with something we all could breath. He was pr.omptly put on do to help: The residents o.fthe hold for two minutes. Society would like to offer their \When the officer came back rooms and beds for alumni on the line he told me 'I don't hockey fans. Simply contact us know what to tell you, except that next time there is a game, and I know this· officer personally- we'll sleep on the street. Hey, it's and he doesn't drink. i do know the least we could do. change his enjoyment of the ter servant into a full-fledged game. \I died,\ Damon said, \but vampire. He said, \Ooops.\ I died cool.\ By the end of the game, the Several of the players,and two players had accomplished the of the game roasters, chose to tasks assigned them, but two of dress up in costume. This proved their nmnberhad been killed, and to be one of the few negative the elder vampire who had been comments made by the players. watching over them greatly dis- Sophomore Shaun Reynolds said. approved oftheir conduct. Many \It took four washes to getthe dye· questions regarding the chaniC- out ·Of my hair.\ Regarding the ters' futures were left Ullan- game itselt~ Shaunhadone com- sweretl. The Adventurer's Guild n'lent, regarding the incident in hopes tQ. run another such game which his character accidentaLly sometime Spring Term, picking charac- where this ended. ~~~~~~~~~-

Features. · · . . . 'IDJp.' illtHtctw.Oieus·is ·February 27, 1997: .Pa..ge·9 .. Food Makes You Happy by Michelle Tham Features Editor I think that it all started with those_ThinMintGirl Scout Cook- ies that I sold in fourth grade. Something about chocolate~cov­ eredanything brought a smile to m.ostly anyone's face. I saw people with absolute delight in their eyes when 1 came to their doors garbed in my green vest and. skirt, holding the .beloved cook- ies in my hand~ and now, so many years later, I find myselfwalking through the .College Center and .stoppingto l)uy abo~ on .my own. staring at their phones waiting for those four blessed words, \Your foo.d jshere.\ My roommate and I started off this term saying that our :fingers would neverdial3 70- 1111; the sad thing is that if we had speed diaJ, that number would. be the first on the list. Maybe it'sjuststress.l know I get fidgety when it's alinostmid- nightand I am nowhere near fin~ ishj:ng a paper. Ho.wever, for some reason .instead of trying to., work faster to get it done, I f~el theridiculousneed tomakemaca- . roni and cheese. Qf .cour,se, this practice gets sort of annoying af- ter a while as. the dishes pile up and that. ~uge 20 .. pack ()f ~Kraft Mac & Cheese tha;t I thought would last forever seems to have disappeared. . · squirrel uprising of 88'. He told me of glorious slush funds which arise from our parking tickets. People may say \How can park- ing tickets bring in so much cash?\ . I never really .unclerstaod this fasc.ination with food before, si.nce mom and da,d,only let me have chocolate on Saturdays ·and candy was generally a no-no. Now I guess I have to admit to the fact that food is seriously an integral part of my everyday hap- piness; It's sort of strange, he• cause I don 1 t ever really remem- ber anticipating meals or m id'-af- ternoon snacks before. It's seems as though sqmething takes over college .students-~a little bug that makes normally .rational hutnan beings order chicken fingers at 3 AM, a sort of incessant buzz in the back oftheirheadsthatcraves 50 wings at strange hours of the night. A cr~ving that will not let them finish theirbiology lab with.- out a bag of Munchos in hand. The even sillier thing is that it's not as though we don't get enough to eat in the dining halL Lunch and dihner are actually two · of my favorite times of the day • • (surprise,surprise). 1here'sasort . of restless anticipation that hits around 10:45 in your Thursday morning lab that makes you re- member that oh wait, today's omelet day! .. Qh Turds, Another Ticket Well st.u:pid, at twenty-five bucks a pop the rrtoney adds up. Also, how c(Jrne the College Cen- ter,oh I'm sorry,theReamerCen- tet, has six parking spots for its handicap patrons and only three designated spots for those of us without handicap stickers. And finally if 1 l1ad two cars I'd be twice as pissed. By the way, I got a C in English At first, I though it was just me and my hall mates, but walking through any dorin shows me how universal this food fetish has be- come. People stand around vend- ing machines anxiously waiting for a little snack and grimace in annoyance when they realize that the Rice Krispy Treats are sold out. Some of the beSt friends are made from strangers begging each other for microwave pop- com or Ramen noodles. The con.- venience store becomes a God- send and a common study break trip when one is on a miss ion for chocolate pudding. It's actually sort-of amusing watching people Funny how we sometimes can- not even remember what day of the week it is, but we know ex- actly when they'll be serving chicken nuggets at West or when the frozen yogurt. machine has Turtle Delight. Mealsarethe per- fect mechanisms for getting rid of all that restless annoyance from a day of classes and .studying for three tests in a row. · Now, don ;t get me wrong--l do have moments when a fresh salad and a bagel is all I eat, and there is always that guilt factor in- volved that makes me run to the gym after having a plate of mashed potatoes. Being healthy is very important, but sometimes it's just nice to cozy up with a pint of Ben & Jerry's Chocolate Fudge Brownie and smile. After all, ice cream makes everything happy. U'NIO·N LAUNDRY. 561 NOTTST SCHENECTADY NV 12308. (ACIIOSe MOll 11111011 COLUG•J OPEN DAILY SAM TO 10:30PM FBfiDAYING TUESDAYS I THURSDAYS· 8AMT03PM There. has been a scandal occur- . . ring within the gates qf Union College. This atrocity is parking violations. Last week my inno- cent car receivecd two parking vio- latians on one day. Being that I am in my fourth year at Union it_ . is safe for me to assume that Union College cannot provide . enough parking spaces for the stu• dents or the faculty. Just to be sure·ofmy assumptions, I took the total number ofstudents dFivers and faculty and matched then um- bers together. Needless to say I had some trouble placing the number of driving students, about 1800, and facult about 550, on the same plane with the number of available parking spots, about 1100. Now even though I reQ ceived a D in Calculus, I know those numbers are ridiculously uneven and lopsided. So just to be sure, I brought the figures to the Physics department. Here I demanded useofthe in- famous Union College Laser that I heard about on my perspective tour. After about a week~ the la- ser told me absolutely nothing. l thought my search for an answer was over. That is until I ran into an anonymous ex-Union College grounds keeper. He had been hor- rifically maimed by the rabid **Note: If we have managed to incense or inspire an.v people who ·wish ld respond io our bitter ramhlirigs or have a 5eef about Union , plellSe express that beef via the Concordy. lf_vou wish to beat lt!e us up, or verbal~v abuse us, please also do so via the Concord..vr Announcing the A~&T \Ultimate Road Trip\ sweepstakes. Going abroad this school year? AT&T would like to help pay your way. 10 Grand Prize Winners - Round-Trip Air Transp~rtation from the u.s. to the co~ntry where you' ll be studying. Plus thousands of chances to win high-quality currency converters (hey, you may find it more valuable than the air transportation) . To enter, c·all \ 8oo 2.57·54:2.4-.ex-t. 300. ' Or you can enter on-line at h-t:tp;/jwww.cttt.corn/Jtudehi:_ <1broctd Do it today. No p\lrcbase necessary, Void where prohibited. Sweepstakes ends S/l/97. Open to residl!nts of the U.S., 18 years or older, enrolled :nt a u.s. college or i.miversitY during the '97-•9s schocil year and traveling internationally for 14 days or more. See your scudy Abroad Counselor or http•/lwww.att.cam/student_abroad for official rules and details. C 19 9 7 l\T&'I'

, Page 10 • February 2 7, i 997 •. 'illl~l' · Oinncorl'tirusis . ·Arts & [ntertainmem The Empire Strikes Back Again as the Star Wars .. T .1~ R~ . C · . r1 ogy . e1ssue · ontinues The success of tile reissue. of films ever made. it is a sequel that and is a better reissue than that of Star Wars has gone beyond what jumps right into the action and Star Wars, re-released only three any Hollywood executive, avid assutnes you've seen the first. weeks before. The new scenes film buff, and devoted Star Wars But it lacks the original's crude- are fewer(abettershotofthe ice- fanatic could have iJnagined. The ness and goes farther than the first cave monster on the planet Hoth, film has finally pmpelled at warp >in many respects: the action is some city scenes ori Bespin ), and speed past E. T. to become the aJl- constant, the story is classic, and because of this, the film: does not time highest grossing film in do- John Williams' score is still a tri- give in to Star Wars' attempt at mesticbox-officehist.ory. (Todate, umph of motion picture music. drawing in people because o.f the total exceeds $400 million). When the Impe,rial March is first clever new footage. Let's face it George Lucas, series creator, heard in this film, rumbling in DTS Empire is a pretty darn good film, wanted his trilogy reissue only to sound; an eerie chill of Darth so vast improvements are not be shown in theaters equipped Vader's power in the Dark Side of needed to begin with. The prints with digital sound, but Twentieth- the Force is felt all over again, for have been cleaned up,the digital Century Fox has its own plans, the first time. soundtrack is very impressive, and apparently: with there-release of Why do so many people love seeing the Millennium Falcon Empire only ()ll. digitally- this movie? ln one sense, it is evadeTieFighte:rsinanaster:oid equipped screens, Fox does not more than a \really cool\ sci-fi field on the big screen is just plain want to lose potential business epic, well-made and visually-spec- jaw-dropping. withthestil1-hotoriginal movie(it tacular. Empirecombinesstill-im- Lucas mainly cleaned up the has been # 1 at the box office for pressive special effects with awe- background visuals on the planet three straight weeks), On Febru- some.space and land battles, ade- Bespin,whereHan Solomeet:shis ary 21, Star Wars'\Nas re-released veloping romance between Prin- old friend, Lando Calrissian, and to even more theaters across the cess Leia and Han Solo, an insight ends up frozen in carbenate for country, while the first sequel into thepointthatholdsthewhole his old: nemesis; Jabba the Hutt. showed up to suck more money story together like glue (Luke's Painted-inbacl<:grounds.ofclouds from the competing films in the training to become a Jedi· Knight are replaced by much mClre realis- month, including the volcano and find spirituality within him- tic images of the cloud city, com- thriller, Dante's Peak, and the self), and the introduction of new plete with ships flying intheback- ClintEastwoodpolitical mystery, characters (Lando Calrissian, ground and stars shining. Be- Absolute Power. Even after Yoda) who come into the story causethesechangesareveryno- twenty years, the Force is still full of such life and background ticeable, it is also fun to pick out mightier than Dirty Harry. \Do that they seamlessly fit in to the the few scenes where Lucas did ~ 11 I . ?\ . h h b k~ you 1ee uc cy ., .. ,, · .. _ . . actiOn. no~£. ange t e ackground s y: The Efnpir~;:;,. ~ ~- ·~f§;};:' ~~-L~fii~~special:ediffd!i?: ot Empi're ~ '' wl'ientando;tJrst-meetsHan,-ciom- without a doubt~ one ofthe' finest actually improves upon the film, .puter-generated clean-up did not occur in the background. But Lucas <;ould have pre- sented two hours of Y oda croon- ing the hits .o f'Frank Sinatra, and Empire would still be a good filrn. Once in a wh He, a film with spec- tacular visual effects also con- tains a sensible story. The Em- pire Strikes 13ack is such an e){- ample, and in 1980, it deserved Oscar nominations for Best Origi- nal Screenpl2yand Best Picture, whichitneverreceived. lntoday's films, when special effects events );ike Twister anrl Independence D.ay find similar mass appeal, such loving care ill storytelling is over- looked in farvor of the next huge computer-.generated explosion. In 1980, Ordinary People, a drama starring Mary 'Tyler Moore as the . ~otherofab()y killed in.adrunk- driving a,ccid:ent, carried away four Acade1ny A \Nards, including Best Picture. Yet who today among Generation :X bas seen Ordinary People, muchless heard of it? ·The Empire Strikes Back, 1980's top- grossing.fillll, w.i.lllikelybe 1997's top-grossing film,. as well -~ its appeal spans generations. And its not just the space ships which draw audiences into rep,eated viewings; C-3PO, Chewbacca, and all the other :characters have : deep meaning for us, and have l..®Cal. Arts Calendar become our friends. When a film has such an emotional impact on millions of people, it should earn Best Picture, because its effects are far-reaching and its tale can be often-imitated but never dupl i- cated. Empire fulfills amisSiQn of filmmaking, which is to change our perception of the world through the cinema. Many tales of drunk drivers have come and gone, but none has made a difference is our language, entertainment, and cul- ture as a Star Wars movie has. On March 7., Return ofthe Jedi will be re-released, with a few ad- ditional scenes and snappier spe- cial effects. Although it lacked the style of the firsttwo, Jedihas a charm and wit all its own, and also stands taU as one of the crowning achievements in cin- ematic history. This is the motion picture I distinctly remember see- ing multiple times in theaters as a child; I, for one, anticipate its re- release as a trip back to my child- hood and a time when believing in the Rebel Allifl.nce and the Force felt like an exciting thing to do. Ratings (out offour): The Empire Strikes Back( 1980) ,. **** The Empire Str(kes Back- Spe- cial Edition ( 1997)- ** ** - II 1 the Art fon Lm Co1 Pro Lo::. dra mic ITi!C VIV: 1 ·of a .of, hut hur ing Am eE,tc alit: sty I bes ate: 1 the Cat wh< wi~ Ev: son Jim ear eas' by Cat wit anc pia: Jud fid~ Jer SA 1 EUI pro by Sd leg 80< Til \ hib Wo dis Ma Me hib Le' arti her lati1 Ea~ her rea on ten1 rier ous

The success of the reissue of Star Wars has gone beyond what any Hollywood executive, avid film buf( and devoted Star Wars fanatic could have imagined. The film has finally propelled at warp speed past E. T. to become the all- time highest grossing film in do- mestic box-office history. (To date, the total exceeds $400 million) George Lucas, series creator, wanted his trilogy reissue only to be shown in theaters equipped with digital sound, but Twentieth- Century Fox has its own plans, apparently: with there-release of Empire only on digitally- equipped screens, Fox does not want to lose potential business with the still-hot original movie(it has been# 1 at the box office for three straight weeks). On Febru- ary 21, Star Wars was re-released to even more theaters across the country, while the first sequel showed up to suck more money from the competing films in the month, including the volcano thriller, Dante's Peak, and the Clint Eastwood political mystery, Absolute Power. Even after twenty years, the Force is still mightier than Dirty Harry \Do you feel lucky ... Clint?\ The Empire StrH{e;~ Back is, · without a doubt, one of the finest THURSDAY,FEBRUARY27 films ever made. It is a sequel that jumps right into the action and assumes you've seen the first. But it lacks the original's crude- ness and goes farther than the first in many respects: the action is constant, the story is classic, and John Williams' score is still a tri- umph of motion picture music. When the Imperial March is first heard in this film, rumbling in DTS sound, an eerie chill of Darth Vader's power in the Dark Side of the Force is felt all over again, for the first time. Why do so many people love this movie? In one sense, it is more than a \really cool\ sci-fi epic, well-made and visually-spec- tacular. Empire combines still-im- pressive special effects with awe- some space and land battles, a de- veloping romance between Prin- cess Leia and Han Solo, an insight into the point that holds the whole story together I ike glue (Luke's training to become a.Jedi Knight and find spirituality within him- self), and the introduction of new characters (Lando Calrissian, Yoda) who come into the story full of such I ife and background that they seamlessly fit in to the action. The \special edition\ of Empire actually improves upon the film, The Empire Strikes Back Again as the Star Wars Trilogy Reissue Continues and is a better reissue than that of Star Wars, re-released only three weeks before The new scenes are fewer (a better shot of the ice- cave monster on the planet Hoth, some city scenes on Besp in), and because of this, the film does not give in to Star Wars' attempt at drawing in people because of clever new footage. Let's face it: Empire is a pretty darn gocd film, so vast improvements are not needed to begin with. The prints have been cleaned up, the digital soundtrack is very impressive, and seeing the Millennium Falcon evade Tie Fighters in an asteroid field on the big screen is just plain jaw-dropping. Lucas mainly cleaned up the background visuals on the planet Bespin, where Han Solo meets his old friend, Lando Calrissian, and ends up frozen in carbonate for his old nemesis, .!abba the Hutt. Painted-in backgrounds of clouds are replaced by much more realis- tic images of the cloud city, com- plete with ships flying in the back- ground and stars shining. Be- cause these changes are very no- ticeable, it is also fun to pick out the few scenes where Lucas did not £hange the background sky: when Lando first meets Han, com- puter-generated clean-up did not occur in the background. But Lucas could have pre- sented two hours ofYoda croon- ing the hits of Frank Sinatra, and Empire would still be a good film. Once in a wh He, a fi I m with spec- tacular visual effects also con- tains a sensible story. The Em- pire Strikes Back is such an ex- ample, and in I 980, it deserved Oscar nom. inations for Best Origi- nal Screenplay and Best Picture, which it never received. Intoday's films, when special effects events like Twister and Independence Day find similar mass appeal, such loving care in storytelling is over- looked in favor of the next huge computer-generated explosion. In 1980, Ordinary People, a drama starring Mary Tyler Moore as the mother of a boy killed in a drunk- driving accident, carried away four Academy Awards, including Best Picture. Yet who today among Generation X has seen Ordinary People, much less heardofit? The Empire Strikes Back, 1980's top- grossing film, will likely be 1997's top-grossing film. as well - its appeal spans generations. And its not just the space ships which draw audiences into repeated v1ewmgs: C-3 PO. Chewbacca, and all the other characters have deep meaning for us, and have become our friends. Whei1 a film has such an emotiomal impact on millions ofpeople, it should earn Best Picture, because its effects are far-reaching and its tale can be often-imitated but never dupl i- cated. Empire fulf!Hsamissionof filmmaking, which is to change our perception of the world through the cinema. Many tales of drunk drivers have come and gone, but none has made a difference is our language, entertaimnent, and cul- ture as a Star Wars movie has. On March 7, Return of the Jed; will be re-released, with a few ad- ditional scenes and snappier spe- cial effects. Although it lacked the style of the firsttwo, Jedi has a charm and wit all its own, and also stands tall as one of the crowning achievements in cin- ematic history. This is the motion picture I distinctly remember see- ing multiple times in theaters as a child; I, for one, anticipate its re- release as a trip back to my child- hood and a time when believing in the Rebel Alliance and the Force felt like an exciting thing to do. Ratings (out offo11r): The Empire Strikes Back( 1980) **** The Empire Strikes Back- Spe- cial Edition ( 1997)- **** I..©Cal Arts Calendar ing most of western art in a quick~paced film. Fiction writer Kwadwo Agymah Kamau, a native ofBarbados, will read from his work at &:00 PM in the Assembly Hall~CampusCenterofthe Ui1i'versity at Albany's uptown campus. Eartierthataftemoon, at4:00 PM in hLunanities J54on the University's uptown campus; Kamau will hold an infonnal seminar. Both the. seminar and the reading are free and open to the public. For additional information, contact the Writers Institute at ( 518) 442-5620. OPENING FRIDA Y,FEBRUARY28 Albany Civic Theatet'sproduction ofPrelude to a Kiss will open tom()rrOw and run for three weekends. The romantic fantasy by Craig Lucas may have arisen from the fact that Lucas was abandoned when 'one day old with a note sayi11g that he was related to Admiral George Dewey. Lucas questions how well any of us kl1ows one another. Kamau 's first novel, Flickering Shadows, received critical acclaitnl ast year. His short stories and essays have appeared in numerous publications and he is currently working on his second novel. For additional information, contact the Writers Institute at (518) 442-5620. FRIDAY,FEBRUARY28 Violinist Ra(!hel Barton, one oftoday's most accomplished young musicians, will perfonn at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall as part ofthe '\Dorian Recordings Live\ concert series at 8:00 PM. Miss Barton will be joined by pianist Thomas Labe for a program of works by Franz Liszt The performance will consist of rarely heard compositions that Franz Liszt wrote specifically for violin and piano. Reserved seat tickets for this concert are $15, and may be purchased by contacting the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall Box Office at(518) 273- 0038. Seven classic short fihns will be shown at 7:30PM in Page Hall, I 35 Western A venue, on the University at Albany's downtown campus, as part ofthe New York State Writ- ers Institute's Spring 1997 Classic Film Series. The screening is free and open to the public. The films to be screened are: \Baron Munchausen 's Dream\{French 1911, 15 minutes, silent, b/w), presenting the tall tales ofthe famous 18th century adventurer. \Kid Auto Races at Venice\ (American, 1914, 12minutes, silent, b/w ), featuring Charlie Chaplin's first appearance as his renowned character,. the Tramp. \Cops\ (American, 1922, 13 minutes, silent, blw }, Buster Keaton's careful assembly of perfectly times gags as he is pursued by a horde of policemen for disrupting a parade. \St. Louis Blues\ (American, 1930, 20 minutes, b/w), the only .film appearance of blues singer Bessie Smith, in a prototype of the music video, with a slim story presented around Smith's singing. \In the Street'' (American, 1952, 15 minutes, b/w), f{)cusing on the children ofHarlem and the spirit of the oppressed. \Two Men and a Wardrobe''(Poland, 1959,20 minutes, silent, b/w), Roman Polanski's first film about two men aimlessly ttying to move a large piece of furniture. \Frank Film'' (American, 1973, 9 minutes, color), Academy Award• winning short show- When Peter and Rita meet, fall in love, and get married within a six- week period, they sometimes wonder how well they know each other. Something happens at the out- door wedding reception when an old man, who is dying oflung can<:er, wanders in and kisses the bride. Neither he nor she is quite the same afterward. The play will be perfonned for three weekends,. on Fridays at 8:00 PM, Saturdays at 4:()0 PM and 8:00PM., a11d Sundays at 3:00PM, with no 4;00 PM performance em Saturday, March l. For reservations, call ( 51·8) 462~ 1297. tickets are $10 each with dis<:ounted rates for pre-paid groups of 13 or more and a student-rus11 policy. The theater is located at 235 Second Ave. (offDelaware Ave.) in Albany. FRIDAY,FEBRUARY28~SUNDAY,MARCH2 Catch Carousel for the ride of a lifetime when it comes to Proctor ~s Theater. It tells the story of a ne'er-do- well's marriage to a gentle factory girl, whom he subsequently fails in every way. The time is 1873, in a small fishing village on the rocky New England coastline. Billy Bigelow, the handsome and swaggering barker for Mrs. Mullin's carousel in the local amusement park, meets Julie Jordan, who works at a nearby mill, when Julieand her friend come to the carousel. Billy and June fall in love and are soon married. The townspeople are against the marriage and the pressure soon become too much for Billy to handle. This musical play continues to inspire tears as much as laughter,just as it did in its premiere back in 1945. licketsare $39.50,$36.50and $32.50, and are available atProctor'sBoxofficeby calling ( 518) 346~6204, and at all TicketMaster locations .. Perfonnances on Friday and Saturday are at 8:00PM, on Saturday and Sunday at 2:00PM, and on Sunday at 7:00 PM. ClOSINGFRIDAY,FEBRUARY28ATTHEALBANY CENTER GALLERIES Tlte Mohawk HudS()n Regional Invitational, featuring workby Jud.ith Bfl..lst, Steve Perkins and ThornasSarrantonio, in the Leslie Urbach Gallery. Paintings by Gerrl Pugliese Moore, in the Upstairs Gallery. The Albany Center Galleries are located at the comer of Chapel and Monroe Streets in dmvntown Albany. For more infonnation call (S 18) 462-4775. I thf Ar fo1 La Cc Pn La dn mi mJ VI\ of of hu hu in~ Ar ea' ali St) be at~ thf Ca wl wi E\ so: .lir ea: ea: by Ca WI an pi~ \ Jw ' ! :j fid ~,t Je 1 SP Et pn by Sc lq 8:( Tl hil w di: M M hil Le art he I at Ea he re< of I ter I ne ou J ' l l I I I l I I l li 1: 11 1: •'

·- Page 11 • February 27 , 1997 • 'UIIp,~ illoncoroi~n$is _ Arts.& [ntertainment LOstFormicans Finds Itself in Yulman Theater .by GabdelaDory Staff Writer Tonightthe YuhnanTheaterand the Department of .Performing Arts will pr~sent their second per- formance ofthe play Tales ofthe Lost F ormicans, by Constance Congdon. Directed by Associate ProfessorBatry Smith, Tale_s ofthe Lost Formicans is a contetnporary drama that explores the life of a middle American family in the niidst of divorce, death, and sur~ vi val. The play is a portrayal by aiiens of an American family in the midst of chaos. What starts Gut as a humorous misunderstanding of human life evolves into a disturb- ing look at relationships inmiddle- Americanlife. Initially ambigilotJS~ e£tch actor is double cast as ari. alien and a human. Congdon's style is unique, and her genius is best understood in howshe alien- ates the audience. There are seven char~cters in the play, and the cast includes: Cathy, a recently divorced woman who decides to move to Colorado with her parents, played by Allison Evans '98.; Eric, Cathy's teenage son, played by Alex Beckers '98; Jim, Cathy's father, who is in the early stages of Alzheimer's dis- ease when the play begins, played by Eric Wisotszky 'OCl; Evelyn~ Cathy's mother, who is struggling with both her daughter'sdivorce and her husbands' alienation~ played by Kimberly Rohback '00; Judy, Cathy's best friend and con- fidant, played by Lori Greene '00~ Jerry, · played· by· ·Morgan Hargrove '97; anc:Uhepartofthe actor,PJayed by Josht;Ja Bresette '97, Mike Yusk.o '97 and Adam Berke'97. Cathy, who is recently divorced when tbe play begins, is facing a mid-life crisi.s, and as a result de- cides to .move ... back in with her parents. She moves her life and her son to CGlo- rado to begin anew, without conteinplatiJllg fhe possible conse- qaences of her ac- tions. The tens.ioR·s between the fam- il'y members -· . especially Cathy and her son Eric -· is painstakingly corwincing, and the relationships make the play ac- curate ancl fright- ening Tale.softhe Lost Forrnicans ha·s · not only· moved audiences, but writers as well. Playwright Tony Kushner · was greatly cinfluencecl by Tale.s of the Lost Formicans while WFiting Angels in America -· Part One. The two plays not only share a similartheme, but their' authors .also approach theater in · the same manner. While Kushner was having dif· ficultywritingAngels·inAmerica;.'\ Upcoming Stage Events at Union Courtesy of Public Relations SA TIJRDA Y, MARCH I literature,.ancientmyths, folklore, or the joys and sorrows of ev- eryday life. The Chamber Orthestra of lHROUGH MARCH2:2 Europe Wind Soloistspcrforma program ofmusic to indudc works by Janacek and Mozart in the Schenectady Museum- Union Col- lege chamber concert series. at 8:00PM in the Memorial ChapeL THROUGH MARCH 6 '\Till We Have Faces,\ an ex- hibit of paintings and drawings by Wonsook Kim Linton, will be on display in the second-floor Mandeville Gallery of the Nott Memorial. Many works in the ex- hibit were inspired by the C.S. Lewis book ofthe same title. The artist's inspiration derives form her unique understand of there- lationship between self and world, East and West The richness of her Korean youth is continuously reaffirmed through the language of her adopted West Her works tends to serve as records of expe- rience, which are drawnfonn vari- ous sources. They may stem from Charles Stetkler, Stage De-. signs is a 25-year retrospective of production photographs of the professor's theatrical design work Skckler has been rcsid¢n~ designer at the College since 1971 and has designed over 60 productions in the Nott Memo~ rial theater and more recently in the Yulman Theater. The exhibit is in the Yulman Theater .. THROUGH MARCH 30 Go()d S'hots, photographs by and of people wi~h mental dis- abilities> will be on disp}ay in the Arts Atrium. Professor Martin Benjamin directed the joint project between the College and photographers from the Schenectady Association for Retarded Citizens. The photo- graphsreflect the lives ofthere~ tarded~ their families and friends in urie\pected and poignant ways. he saw a stagereading of Tales of the Lost Formicans, and he was so impressed that he offered to write an introduction to a collec- tion of Congdon's plays. Kushner sees Congdon as a playwright of hope: \Here is a writer who has not lost the under- , standing we all once had of the awesome power of dreams, a writer who remembers her dreams and her nightmares, and who pos- sesses great skills in bringing what she learns in the night to life.\ Both Kushner and Congdon alienate theaudienceat times, fo- cusing on sensitive issues. In each play the actors are subjected to· an exterior force or to a disaster that dominates theirti ves. In Tales of the Lost Formicans, it is th.e aliens that are con- trolling the lives of the humans, and in Angels in America, itisAlDS. Senior Emilia Teasdale,. who re- cently directed a staged reading of Angels in America -· Part One, said, \the connection be- tween Tales of the Lost F ormicansand Angels in America is very intense - you can see the in- fluence of Tales of the Lost Formicans in Angels in America, and how one artist inspires another.\ Director Barry Smith chose Talesof the Lost Formicans because it is a good play that is. within the students' range. \It seems that the play is about aliens, but it is not. It is about our own alienation in our own contemporary age,\ said S!nith. Smith also said that stu- dents will enjoy the play because . . . they will be able to relate to the relationships that make Tales of · the Lost Porrnicans so compel- ling. Professor Charles Steckler, set designer, calls Tales of the Lost Formicans \a madcap social sat- ireaboutmiddle America from the perspective ofa,liens from outer space. It is both frightening and horrifYing.\ John Miller, technical director ofthe Yuhnan Theater, is excited to work on Tale of The Lost Formicans, because he wiH be re- constructing the audience-stage relationship based on Steckler's designs to create the effect of outer space. Tales of the Lost Formicans is so different fonn any ofthe plays that the theater department has produced that the Department of Performing Arts sponsored a col- oring contest to build enthusiasm for the play. The contest was open to all Union students, and the only talent required was the ability to color in any media the publicity posterforthe show The winners will be announced dur- ing the .show's intermission on Wednesday., March 5: The prod.uction, which in~ eludes a cast of nine actors, wi II he perfonned from February 26- March 1, March 5 - 8, at 8:00PM in the Yulman Theater. Tickets are $5.00 with student ID, and $7.00 for the general pub- lic. For further information, con- tactthe box officeat388-6545. ANY SIZE ROLL 3i 1 ' Double Prints 4\ Double Prints THE COLLEGE STORE REAMER CAMPUS CENTER SALE EFFECTIVE FEB. 6- 28 24 HQU,R SERVICE

i 'J t I I tl i Lost Formicanl.Jt Finds Itself in Yulman Theater by Gabriela Dory Staff Writer Tonightthe Yulman Theater and the DepartmeNt of Performing Arts win present their second per- fonnance of the play Tales of the Lost Formicans. by Constance Congdon. Directed by Associate Professor Barry Smith, Tales of the Lost F ormicans is a contemporary drama that explores the life of a middle American family in the midst of divorce, death, and sur- vival. The play is a portrayal by a'liens of an American family in the midst of chaos. What starts out as a humorous misunderstanding of human I ife evolves into a disturb- ing look at relationships in middle- American life. InitiaHy ambiguous. each actor is double cast as an alien and a human. Congdon's style is unique, and her genius is best understood in how she alien- ates the audience. There are seven characters in the play, and the cast includes: Cathy, a recently divorced woman who decides to move to Col ora do with her parents, played by Al:J ison Evans '98; Eric, Cathy's teenage son, played by Alex Beckers '98~ .I im, Cathy's father, who is in the early stages of Alzheimer's dis- ease when the play begins, played by Eric Wisotszky '00; Evelyn, Cathy's mother, who is struggling with both her daughter's divorce and her husbands' alienation, played by Kimberly Rohback '00~ Judy, Cathy's best friend and con- fidant, played by Lori Greene '00~ Jerry, played by Morgan Hargrove '97; and the part of the actor, played by_ Joshua Bresette '97, Mike Yusko '97 and Adam Berke'97. Cathy, who is Fecently divorced when the play begins, is facing a mid-life crisis, and as a result de- cides to move back in with her parents. She moves her life and her son to Colo- rado to begin anew, without contemplating the possible conse- quences of her ac- tions. The tensions between the fam- ilv members - especially Cathy and her son Eric - is painstakingly convincing, and the relationships make the play ac- curate and fright- enmg Talesofthe Lost Formicans has not only moved audiences, but writers as well. Playwright Tony Kushner was greatly influenced by Tales of the Lost Formicans while writing Angels in America -Part One. The two plays not only share a similar theme, but their authors also approach theater in the same manner. While Kushner was having dif- ficulty writing Angels in America, Upcoming Stage Event-s at Union Courtesy of Public Relations SATURDAY, MARCH I I iterature, ancient myths, folklore, or the joys and sorrows of ev- eryday life The Chamber Orchestra of THROUGH MARCH 22 Europe Wind Soloists perfonn a program of music to include works by Janacek and Mozart in the Schenectady Museum-Union Col- lege chamber concert series, at 8:00PM in the Memorial Chapel. Tl IROUGI I MARO I 6 \'Till \'Ve Have Faces,\ an ex- hibit of paintings and drawings by Wonsook Kim Linton, will be on display in the second-floor Mandeville Gallery of the Nott Memorial. Many works in the ex- hibit were inspired by the C.S. Lewis book of the same title. The artist's inspiration derives form her unique understand of there- lationship between self and world, East and West The richness of her Korean youth is continuously reaffirmed through the language of her adopted West Her works tends to serve as records of expe- rience, which are drawn form vari- ous sources. They may stem from Charles Steckler, Stage De- signs is a 25-year retrospective of production photographs of the professor's theatrical design work Steckler has been resident designer at the College .since 1971 and has designed over 60 productions in the Nott Memo- rial theater and more recently in the Yulman Theater. The exhibit is in the Yulman Theater. THROUGH MARCH 30 Good Shots, photographs by and of people with mental dis- abilities, will be on disP.Iay in the Arts Atrium. Professor Martin Benjamin directed the joint project between the College and photographers from the Schenectady Association for Retarded Citizens. The photo- graphs reflect the lives of there- tarded, their families and friends in unexpected and poignant ways. he saw a stage reading of Tales of the Lost Formicans, and he was so impressed that he offered to write an introduction to a collec- tion of Congdon's plays. Kushner sees Congdon as a playwright of hope \Here is a writer who has not lost the under- standing we all once had of the awesome power of dreams, a writer who remembers her dreams and her nightmares, and who pos- sesses great skills in bringing what she leams in the night to life.\ Both Kushner and Congdon alienate the audience at times, fo- cusing on sensitive issues In each play the actors are subjected to an exterior force or to a disaster that dominates their lives. In Tales of the Lost Formicans. it is the aliens that are con- trolling the lives of the humans, and in Angels in America. it is AIDS Senior Emilia Teasdale. who re- cently directed a staged reading of Angels in America -- Part One, said. \the connection hc- t ween Tales r~( the fjJSl Formh·w1s and Angels in Amerh.:a is very intense - you can see the in- fluence of Tales ol the Lost Formicans in Angels in America, and how one artist inspires another.\ Director Barry Smith chose Tales of the Lost Formicans because it is a good play that is within the students' range. \It seems that the play is about a! iens, but it is not It is about our own a! ienation in our own contemporary age,\ said Smith. Smith also said that stu- de11ts will enjoy the play because they will be able to relate to the relationships that make Tales of the Lost Formicans so compel- ling. Professor Charles Steckler, set designer, calls Tales of the Lost Formicans\a madcap social sat- ire about middle America from the perspective of aliens from outer space. It is both frightening and horrifying.\ John Miller, technical director of the Yulman Theater, is excited to work on Tale r~( Thl! Lost Formicans, because he will ben.:- constructing the audienct:-stage relationship based on Steckler's designs to create the effect of outer space Tales (~{the: Lost Formicans 1:-, sod ifthent fonn any of the plays that the theater department has produced that the Department of Performing Arts sponsored a col- oring contest to build enthusiasm for the play Tht.! contest \vas open to all Union student:;, and the only talent required was the ability to color in any media the publicity poster for the show The winners will be announced dur- ing the show's intermission on Wednesday, March 5. The production, which in- cludes a cast of nine actors, will be perfonned from February 26- March I, March 5-8, at 8:00PM in the Yulman Theater. Tickets are $5.00 with student I D, and $7.00 for the general pub- lic. For further information, con- tact the box office at 388-6545. 3! 11 Double Prints 4\ Double Prints THE COLLEGE STORE REAMER CAMPUS CENTER SALE EFFECTIVE FEB. 6 - 28 24 HOUR SERVICE

\ • ' t' Global News · · · · {ITJ~e <lloncornietasis .. Febnfary 27, 1997 • Page 12 ' . ~ ' . . \ Global News The Death ofDeng Xiaop-ing and How It Will Affect·China's Future by Erika Mancini Staff Writer will prevail. There is also con- cern thatifall does go wen wfth Hong Kong, China may take this as encouragemenuo.:retake Taiwan which is presently be- coming a full democracy and : enjoying immersion in global markets. •· , ·~· China, though gradually;, is opening up its markets largely due to the accomplishments of ~ ' . had in France and Russia later ing that he ceca lied £.mm his Ti.am:mmen Square. Tanks and helpeq him toJea4 Chjna gn the mral origins: '~it d·o(tsn't mat- . machine guns fir~d at students road to e~onom,ic;: ~uccess,. , , ter .. jfthe cat is bl.a.ck· 01; white. and bystanders. T.he iocident ·ln I-979,. he le<;J: his first,suQ: As long as it catches rats it's a became known as the ces~fulCon:imul)JstrevoTt. He gooeioat.\ MF.Oeng,deseribed Tiananmeo ma,ssa-cre ancl for- becameoneqf-Chaimran Mao's as a'.pragmatist;a.n authoritar:- ever will be a '~datk shadow\ closttst<lieutenants., Herose to ian- a.i)d.a 'l.istonazy·J!i;mpr.oved ... in. Mr. Deng;s «areer .. His re- the top of .the party when; in theUvesofmilliansofChinese.. luct_~nce tQM'atds political de- 1954, M~o:ap.po.iqted him gen- HeJet pro\!flilces ridthemsel·ves moctacystertnn.t~d frorQ.his feel- era! secretary;ofb,isComll1,unist, of c.;ommt~n.es and. collectiv~ ings that the Chinese people party, which wasat~e time~ the farms. P~&sants .gladly seized had endured;en9)lgh chaos and ·· ' .. _ .the ·right· t'O· viole.hce with the Cultural One of the reinaining found- ing revolutionaries of Commu- nist China, Deng Xiaoping, passed away last Wednesday, February 19th· at the age of92. Described as '\the architect of modem China,\ the 20th cen .. tury has seen DengXiaoping's leadership and economic poh- cies hoist a war and, famine- stricken country out of unrest · to being a modern, world .Deng X iaoping. He had an ex- traordinary long political life that began· in his . ·· youth. H-·e wlls· . born into a wealthier petit bourgeois rural ·, · ' · · · · own theix own Revoluti<m,. and he did notwant D~ng had.f!:.favorite say:ing that he, re'- pl·ots of .. land tosubmitthem:toanymoreun- calledjrom his rural origins-. ~'It doesn~t ·and output and rest. He· sought stability for matter tif_ the_ cat is bl.a. ck .. or' whit.e_: • _A'_s rp.·orc9kf··eitt .. :es. d.:s.Tk· ·hY. e- China and became a symbol of power. ·' . Mr. Deng 's death comes at.a significant time in Chinese his- tory. This summer, Britain -re- turns the capitalistic colony of Hong Kong back to mainland Communist C.hina according to a negotiated agreement which Mr. Deng himself made with British Prime Minister Marga- ret Thatcher in I 984. There are uncertainties of whether Mr. Deng's ideal vision of \one country, two systems'' (Hong Kong's markets would remain free ahd the rest of China wo'uld continue opening up at its own pace) can be counted on and · the Chinese desire to relinquish long as it catches rats it,s a good cat. ,, p.easants. en- the ideo.logical.extremism of Joyt+'d peace Mao, but also the deske tote- fl:unily, and as a young revolu- tionary he incited peasants to kill landowners and take up th'e Communistcause. In 1919,'he was sent to France on a work- study program, and itr 1922 che joined the Communist Party of Chinese Youth in Europe. He escaped the French police and went to Moscow where he es- tablished important connec- tions with the Communist Party. The experiences that he \It just shows that Kenneth Starr is like a rat in a box. Someone hits one side and he runs into the other side .... he is truly trapped.\ . Susan McDougal, speaking about Starr's resignation from· the Whitewater probe and subsequent return to the position. \As always, whenver there is gold, a good part of it ends up in Switzerland.\ An ad for Swatch; which ran amidst allegations that Swiss banks are holding Jewish assets captured by the Nazis. CDC Updates ••• Tach for Ami!!rfca \Is the national reacher corps of outstand- ing recent college graduates of all academic majors and cultural backgrounds who commit two years to teach in under-resQurced urban and rural publia schools.\ Deadline for applications; must be sent directly to TFA and be posttnatkedby March 3; 1997. Pos•t•ons lor '97 Crilclu:ates: March 5 at 4pm. CDC. Jack Easterling, The Emma Willard School, an all girls' school, will discuss a one year internshi plresidency in teach· ing for MT. HT, EO, and all science majors. Resumes and cover letters will be accepted. Marrh 6 at 'lpm. CD(:'· Todd Lawrence '87 with Hoechst Marion R.ousseD (international phannaceutlcal finn) will discuss opportuni- ties. Resume Deadline Is Fri. Feb. 28 for interviews March 7. MardJ 6at Zgm. CDC- Sapient Corp. headquarters in Cambridge, MA. Tom Kingsley '93 will speak about client/server development positions available. Resume Deadline is Fri. Feb .. 2B for interviews March 1. Check out their .homepage www.sapient.com for more infonnation. Resume Referral Deadline - Friday. February 28 for: ·Prudential Preferred. Providence, Rl and Westwood, 1\AA ·Northwestern Mutual Life. NY. March 14 Deadline for fall'97 Work Study Positions at the CDC. We are hiring student~ for Career Assistant positions. Students with ability to be a team player. have a strong work ethic and good sense of humor should submit a cover letter and resume. world?s.Iargest Communist party.;- Mr. Deng llel.ped:Ma.o in Chi;n~'s_pevtllepment oftne atomic-bomb1na:kingChina the third country)p possess-ru:~qlear weapons in 1 964. In the early 1970's Chin~was falling apart and Mao was near his end. Indeed, during the thl- multuous years of Mao's Cul- tural Revolution of the 60's and 70's; Mr. Deng had fallen out of favor and, like many in lead- ership positions, was in \politi- cal\ exi:le. Mao's death in 1973, however, opened the way for, Mr. Deng 's own rise to power. In 1978, he established himself as the country's para- mount leader, arid began to bring peace, stability and pres- tige to China. Mr. Deng had a favorite say- and stability. sistdemocracy. and when tnany of them ac- Today, China leads the· world qui.r~(;l: con~iderable wealth,·. market -in toy, shoe and textile . they began.to t>ujld h.oHses, thus inclustr.ies, However, sweat prov.idingthemar.ket fora Ci;m- shops, chiM labor,. ~msaf~ fac- struction it:)dl;l:o;try. tories, prostitution and .crime . He mad@· tlte 1nilitary serve seem to be the price that is be~ t}Je·civili.an economy .. He ere~ ing paid for China~s economic ated fttH ,diplomatic .relations upswing. with the United States, and in Jiang. Zemin, Mr. D.eng's 1974, toured the U.S. He en-. \core\ member of the ''third couraged the youth ofChinato generation leadership\ (after pursue· an education. Many him and Mao)/ is currently believed that his openness to president and Communist party economic refot111 would per~ Chief and is left with theprob- haps lead to democratic re- lem of China's soci:}l dism:der. forms, and in fact, Mr. Deng There are pressures for greater claimedtoswpp()rt.China's.new economic liberalization, a democratic movement. greater need of attention to hu- In 1989, l10wever, Mr. Deng man rights and political liberty, lost much-ofhis prestige as he and many Chinese resent the was held responsible for vio- corruption oftheir leaders and Jently cruslling a pro-democ- envy those who have more than racy demonstration at they do . ROCHESTE/l/ANS, UNITE·ATAfCC.'--. (YOVR... ~VMMER. COVRSE RE~OVR.CE) · , /<=r\. : \\ 1 ' Mcc ' . . . I . . . > ... ;>.,';~- . t £- \ · ... s summer sess1ons et y9u earn \ ~~\~ 1 1\,\' cred1t transferable to -y,~ur college. \:;) \(: tJ . . Best of all, MCC's credit ' · · Get more out of your summer:- Get full · course credit in far. less time. At .MCC. Speed up your jourhey through college. Get a prerequisite out of the way. Take a course you've been dreading. Or re-take a course that took you. MCC offers you two campuses, with over 300 courses io choose from. All ai the low cost of $99 per credit hour. Most are available when you are-morning. afternoon, or evening-so you can earn AND leam this summer. · ·transfers to colleges and universities across .the U.S.A. Be smart. Get credit for summer: At MCC. Session I starts May 27 Session 2 starts July 7 For complete information, call 1-800-724-SUMMER (7866) or 716-292-3400. Or visit o.ur web site at www.monroecc.edu

SJ.wrts · · · · · 'Qr{p.' <!lt'kltcprbintsis • February 27, 1997 • Page 13 · alsohiftbree ofbe~eig~ t t,Pree- point attempts: '. 1Jc}\tgherty . ECAC & UCAA Update by Josh ·Adams Sports Writer . ninerebounds, Hitz.luok.e Robin Rerner 7 s school recm-a .of 932 careerrebounds. HitZnow ranks only had Jour ~oin1s, ·illclud: · Women's Basketball The Union Dutchwomen?s . firstJnboth.scoring.and rebo.und- Basketball season came to an end in.g fm aU time for tb.e Shooting jng.a three-pointer, but .\her. eightreboundsmadeup for the - Overall - UCAA fo'!! points,;· ~o11ch ~1,t,rt said. <-'T 7 e:.::a:.::m:::;.· \'\:----\'-... The Engineers' defense did a··~ '-Wrllia:m Smit&· last weekend with·a\I~ssto WiU- · D.utcbwomen. ;·· '· • · ' iams this past Tuesd'ay. They ·· ' . ·.· · \I ~·th.inl\ tutrt<Jvers ·~ere Won Lost Won Lo~t < ~· . 24 .. 12 0 \ . 0 dropped the weekend series to a i<:ey factor,\ Coach Burt com- Ski-dmore:on Friday night and to m.entecl on 'the ·teant' 1 s perfo.r~ Rensselear on Saturda:y. The mance .. Union ~o1Ti1nitted 25. Dutchwomen finished the season turnovets,· while Skidmore gave good job Of keeping the baH Skidmore 15 9 8 4 ou-t of Dougherf}f-ls · hanlJ,s RP£ ~ . 13 10 7 5 thlioU'ghout the-game~ but th:e .Hamlltem 10 14 6' 6 senior, who rank-s second on . St. Lawrrence 11 13 5 7 witha5-l9overaHrecordanda t!J>H. · ·' all-time blocks, was· able-to Ctarkson 8 . 16 3 9 1-ll UCAA conference Jtecord. ~:rntlle first half, we.str\'lggled: swat eight of the Shots put up Union · 5 19 1 11 The team was led hy Coach Mary. We .(jidn::t.execute/~ Coacb 13urt Ellen Burt and senior standouts &a4d -·~:r:n the. second ba:If, wcz; Amy Hitz and Amy Dougherty playeclhatd'er: We·can 't Ietteams and freshman star Leah Oliveiri. get u,p 011 us and expect to come The Dutehwomen had their back in the second ·ha:lf.\ This work cutout for them against the· was ind~e-d a fact. The 16-4 Williams squad. The Dutchw:()menweredown4-l-17 women lost 82-50. · Oliveiri led wltentliey wentintothe illtermis- all scorers with 20 points and sio.n. 1he second haJf was an grabbed 11 rebounds. Hitzpoured upbU:I battle, although Union·. in 14 and also nabbed eight · outscol'edSiddmore.2S-22. The boards. The Dutchwomen ·shot first'-hal:fdeficit prove.dto b~ too poorly frmnthe floor; hitting only m11ch for the Outchwo1nen. 32.7 percent of their shots. They Saturclaywas thelastgam.e: for also had a weak night from the seniors Dough'erty, Hitz, and charity stripe, tnaking good on C&ppandlo .. The· Dutchwomen only 68.4 percent oftheir tries·. fell to RPI, although C<lach Burt On Friday, the women traveled tho-ught that sophomore guard up to Skidmore College and lost Mary Schultz 'played 'Very well. atough game 1 63'-45. Oliveiriled Shultz played 36minutesagainst the Dutchwomen with 14 points · a t&ugl:t fullc\ourt press a:nd only and 12 rebounds; she also went committed two turnovers. ·She six for six from the free-throw also led the team in scovf'li.g with line. Hitz ·COntributed 12po'ints 15points and was.good on all four and nine rehcmnds. With those of her free-throw attetnpts. She by the RPJ players: Coach Burt also th()ughtthat Shira Ackennan played a good game. She had six points, all of them colli·ing fro1h three- point range. Oliveiri scored nine points and grabbed five ·rebounds. · When·asked about the per- fonnat:K~,e ·oftfi.e tea,nrthis .year, Coach Btp;tsa.id, \M=uy Leah, and Michelie.improl.'ed quite E!. ~bit.\ Next year, these play- ~rs will have Jo hrin.g their game to a new level. The en- fire front court ·of .. the Dutchwornen will graduate this year, IeaviAg some holes to fill. · : 'There'sdefinitely oppottu- nitiesfor kids to step into some pretty big playing time;\ Coach Burtcommented. '!'Los- · ing the Whofe front line ·i·S go- ing to be hard to replace.\ MAKE YOUR MEGA MOVE TODAY! Camp Suss~ex ---- ...... the dutch hollo~ restaurant'----- Enjoy a . 1111cl rewarding. summer at Camp Sussex is l<K:ated in the beautiful mountains of r1orthem New- Jersey and is about one hour from N'ew York Cjty. We peed MIF counselors, Head pioneering, social worker, LPN/R. N/Stu. dent Nurse. Jewish Cultunl pro~. Salaries are attraclivcf Please caU for more mfol1'11ation or write to Camp SuS$ex 33 Blatherwick Dr. B_erlin, N.J. 08009 Phone ,, ........... 753-92(;5 or 261 ' Rookie ofthe Week Lea,lt Oliveiri,freshman,{Rochester, NY), continued with her strong play, averaging 14.3 points and nine rebounds in an 0-3 week for the Dutchwomen .. . Honor Roll Amy Dougherty, senior, .(Glassboro; NJ),recorded 21 blocked shots bn the week, including 10 vs. Skidmore and 8 vs. RPI. Men's Basketball Oventll UCAA Team Won Lost Won Lost St. Lawrence Hamilton Hobart 22 3 II 8 8 5 I 3 3 7 8 13 9 II 1 I -Clar~son. '' 10 14 Unio11 Skidmore · RPI 6 .17 , .4 2 2 6 ·~·7: ' 9 . , . I, . -'} ~ - ' 4 \ 18. 9 Rookh~ of the Wee~ Shane Cahill, freshman, (Sand Lake, NY), came off the bench to score a seas()n-high 20 points in a win over RPI. He was 6-7 from the floor and .7-8 from the lineon the night. . HonorRoU Rob Groelz, sopholl1ore~(Albany, ~Y), averaged 18.5 points· in a I -I week for the Dutchmen, shooting 48% from the floor ' and 4D% from behilid tf\e t11re~-:PQ.i;J!_~r-Q~.· ,_~ 1 .,~ •.• '-', ., \'> ~---~.:... \>;· -, ·,.,.-<\'!~ ·,.' (~\'\''lo\'\\\- t !-::.·\\!.'-\ .. ;..flft\:J;~~d\\'r)~~il~t-·'l.i:-j· • .- -~--- . _.. - - --·-- p~: .. fr.r:-·.:,~·:.f.. ... t·,''..--;\•••:·<::':\~r,f!~:-~_:.,/~:;~--. -r::-:;1..· ECAC Hockey Standings League Only Overall School G·P W-L-T Pts GF GA W-L-T Clarkson 20 15-5-0 30 84 50 22-8-0 Cornell 20 13-5-2 28 74 58 16-7-4 RPI 20 11-6-3 25 77 65 16-10-4 Vennont 20 11-6-3 25 59 54 19-8-3 PrincetQn 20 10-7·3 23 65 54 .. 15-8-4 Union 2fl. 10-7-3 23 55 46 17-I0-3 Col gat~ 20 9-8-3 21 70 57 15-12-3 Harvard 20 8-10-2 18 54 59 9-16-2 St. Lawrence 20 5-10-5 15 71 81 10-17-5 Dartmouth 20 5-13-2 12 66 86 10-15-2 Yale 20 5-13-2 12 52 73 8-16-3 Brown 20 3-15-2 8 71 105 6-18-3 Honor Roll Trevor Koenig,junior, (Edmonton, Alb.), the junior goaltender established a new ECAC record for consecutive shut-out minutes- 198:44-in a 7-1 win over Cornell (22) saves; he stopped more in a. 1- I OT tie with Colgate, dropping his Goals Against Average to 1.83. Crane Swimmer ofMeet.uCont'd 2:24.52. From Union;s swim team hailed this year's NYSWCAASwimmerof the Meet , Crane. Crane swam an amazing meet and the final NYSWCAA meet of her career. All ofCrane's times Wete fast enough to secure her place at the National Meet. Crane took first in the 500 freestyle with a time of504.67, and a 100 freestyle split time of 53 .40, which qualifiedherfortwo national races during one event. In the 200 freestyle, Crane took first with a time ofl54JS.. In the 1650 freestyle, she took first with a time of 17:39.35. All together the woman's swim- ming and diving team took an im- pressive third behind Ithaca and then Hamilton, respectively. The meet was a positive indicator of the good things to come for Union's swimming and diving program. \We really acted like a team, constantly cheering for each other. No one had a bad swim letthem down, everyone worked hard,\ said Librandi. Union College plays host to the Men's Swimming and Diving States Meet beginning on Thurs- day, February 27 through Satur- day, March 1. The meet features Brian Field, who last year won the National Diving competition in Atla11ta, Georgia. .· -

Page- iJ • February 27, 1997 • WI c Qlonrnroh'Hsis · . · · Sports Men's Hockey Continued From Page 20 going to doaquick up to Reckin. In the back of my head I heard ()'Flaherty yelling. I realized that he'd taken off. I didn't think. I just threw it down there, and it workedout well.\ Chris Ford, working hard in the comer, took a charging penalty, and CorneH went on the power playat4:36. The Big Red's Doug Stienstra beat Koenig on the power play, ending his shut-out streak at 198:44. With Tony Bergin· in the penalty box, serv- ing a five minute major penalty for charging Trevor Koenig, Ford made up for his penalty by scor- ing his sixth goal and I 0 I 51 point of his career at 12:46 of the pe- riod. l'hisgave Union a four-goal cushion. Union scored two more goals in a penalty-filled third period, as O'Flaherty netted his second of the night. Moody registered his fourth assist of the game on the play:· \The Dutchmen ended the scoring with seven goals, as Reck in got his second goal of the season when he picked up a loose rebound in the crease and poked 1t into the net. Cornell applied some pressure late in the period, but Koenig was solid, stopping.a· total oftwenty-two shots. The win, coupled with a Princet~n tie, gave Union sole possession of fifth place. A win the next night against Colgate would assure the Dutchmen no worse than sixth place and a pre- I irninary round bye in the play· offs. On Saturday night, the Dutch- men, in what was potentially the finalgameatAchilles ruokforthe 13 seniors, took on the Colgate Red Raiders, who had beaten RPI ' .,•.f ' . ' - .... \\'·· Can He Go.\ The first period saw little ac ... tion, as :neither team coulcl mus- ter any offense. Union's best chance came when ·Charlie Moxham centered a pass f.or Mark Szucs from· behind the net. the assist with Ryan Donovan and Campbell getting the assists. Hard~r was phenomenal in the net for Colgate in the third,. turn- ing away all ni•ne of Union's shots .. The Dutchmen's best chartce to SCOTe ··carne When U11ion'sgraduating class (left to rigltt). Top Row: Jaime Antoille, Rya11 Donova11, Jay Prentice;. Craig Reckill, Kuss Monteith, Greg Buchanan, Seabrook Satterlund, Bill Moody. TJI)ttom Raw: Jolm Sicinski, Cltris Ford; Patrick O'Flalrerty, Clrad Tlwmpson, Andrew Will. (pf1oto by Lauri;!l Rflma lTC) 3-2thepre\dous night. Prior to the . Szucs G-ne-timed .·it,\ but the . o:f'Iaherty deflectedan Ajldrew startofthegame, the seniors were Colgate goaltender Shep Harder Will shot f:rom the point that hit honor~d at center ice~ Achilles was thereto make a split-save. the inside ofthepostanq bounced Rink was adorned by a number Rob Marra got the Red Raid- out with under a ininute remain- of banners, including some ex- ers on the I?oard at 4:07 of the ing in the period. Will had a pressing thanks and appreciation period as he beat Koenig with a strong ru.sh down the i~e in the fortheplayoftheseniors. An- blast from the point.· John closingse9ondsoftheovertime, other banner read, \Trevor Sicinskievenedthescoreat6:59 butHarderwastheretoJnakethe Koenig 1.87(GAA) ... HowLow ashescoredhissixteenthgoalof. save in the crease on Will's last shot. The g~me ended in a 1-l tie, Sicinski felt that \ .. ,it was a good hard~ working hockey game. Both teams were going. Both teams had quality chances. You've got to enjoy playing those kind ofgames; especially this late in the season. Those are the kind of games that are going to be [played] when .playoff time comes around.\ Donovan added that the game was an exciting one to play. \l think thewh&legarne ·was exciting, It was end-to-end action. It was.tight checking, but ·there were a Jot·of[scoriHg] op- portunities. That's just the kind :of game that' any college player warits to play:\ · With this tie, the Dutchmen's record is now I 0-7·J. itt the ECAC and 1'7- 10-J overall The tie moves the1ri back iltto a tie for fifth place with the Princeton Ti- gers, two points behind both RPI and Vermont. Union's worst pos- -sible ·finish is now seventh, which would mean a home playoffpre-. liminary game. The most l'ikely finish is fifth or sixth, a prelitni- ·nary round bye, and a road game in the quarterfinals {see article, this section). ·Union travels to Princeton and Yale next weekend in the crucial final two games .of the regular season·. Between The Pipes Jay Prentice was a late scratch Saturday night as he suffered from. back. sp..asnts.. Trevor Koenig saw hi:; goals against av- ~rage drop to 1.83 after. stopping 21 shots against Colgate .. \'\\''·'M:en~s B~sketball Fjnisbes League Season · · · · Freshmen-Saturated Team Avoids the UCAA Basement· by Frank Rossi Sports Editor The best is yet to come for the Shooting Dutchmen, and their leagu.e results point to a great 1997-98 season. For now, they have two nonwleague games to go after C()ncl udin g their league sea- son with an 89-77 loss to Skidmore on Friday and a 77-70 victory over RPI on Saturday. On Friday night, Union faced a young Skidmore team which they defeated earlier in the sea- son in Saratoga. Union started the first half in great shape. Even though Union was outshot in the first half (50 percent to 44 per- · Men's Ice Hockey 2/28 .at Princeton- 7:30 3/1 at Yale- 7:00 Women's Ice Hockey 2/28 vs. Massacnusetts- 4:30 cent), Union sophomore Rob Groelz continued his team-lead- ing scoring pace as he scored l7 points in the first half. Union's 43-36 half-time lead was not enough to hold off the charging Thoroughbreds. T.C. Coleman scored 21 of his game-high 30 points in the-second half, leading Skidmore to a twelve~point vic- tory Coleman's effort was backed up by David Burch's 25 points for Skidmore. Union's Doyin Richards also had a good second half, but his 20 points and Graetz's 25 points cot!ld not beat Skidmore's 53 points in the second half. The first time these teams met, Union . ' Men'sBaskethall 2/28 vs. King's Point- 7:30 Men's Swimming 2/27-3/1 Home (States)- 7:00 · scored 50 points in the first half, meaning both games were de- cided by one strong half. Head Coach Robert Montana blamed the loss on the positioning of Skidmore's Burch. \Skidmore · did a great job of isolating their leading-scorer in the post posi- tion. We had a difficult time de- fending him there:'' On Saturday, the· tnen wanted to finish out the league season with a head of steam. This meant they would have to sweep arch- rival RPI. Last season; the Engi- neers swept the Dutchmen, and the Dutchmen wanted to return the favor. The scoring throughout the gan1e was nip and tuck for 59 minutes. Neitherteam could re- ally doininated the pace, but Union was able to gain a five- point lead by half-time. The sec- ond halfbrought forth an unlikely hero for the Dutchmen in Shane Cahill. This freshman played only 18 minutes offthe bench and scored 20 points (six for seven on the floor, seven for eight in free throws). These 20 points repre- sented half ofthe Dutchmen's 40 points in the second half as they shook offthe Engineers in the fi- . nal minute, 77-70. Coach Montana was impressed with his team's play on Saturday in front of a decent Memorial Fieldhouse crowd. \The kids did a great job in playing a physical game, and they did not give into Rensselaer's physical play. Shane Cahill did a great job com- . ing off the bench and executing our half-court offense. He made some big plays for us.\ Three other players scored doubie dig~ its for Union, as RichGilooly and Zena Woldeyesus both had ten and Rob Groelz added 12 points. Rensselaer was unable to con- vert Union's 14turnovers into a victory. Jason Poselovich led all scorers with 2 I points, btJt Union shot over 50 percent for the game. The Un ibn· tiutchmen ( 6-1 7, 4- 8 UCAA) can finisH no worse than fifth jn the UCAA, ahead of both RPI and Skidmore, as re- · maining UCAA games will not affect the middle ofthe standings. Union still must play· two chal- lerrgingno!1-league ga1nes against Middlebury on T'uesday (after p_ress dead I ine) a11d King's Point on Friday (7PM at the Memorial Fieldhouse). Friday's game will roark the final game for Ui1lon senior Doyin Richards, whoserebound- . ing and scoring helped the Dutch- men to their decent UCAA mark this season. This past weekend, Richards: grabbed 14 rebounds, giving him the team lead for re- bounds per game(5.5 per game). · With only one senior leaving the team, the Dutchln.en are in great· sh&tpe fO.r. next season. Coach Montana is content with his team's. play this league se~­ son... \l'.in disappointed. we . could11'tbeatSkid.more, buiitwas a. :solio ·finish'.\'· Witlf possibly UCAA-bound King's Point com- ing to town Friday, Monta11a hopes to see his team complete a great finish. \We hope to finish on a positive note as we spring- board into next year with a little bit more of a~ experienced lineup.\ ·

Men's Hockey Continued From Page 20 going to do a quick up to Reck in. In the back of my head I heard O'Flaherty yelling. I realized that he'd taken off. I didn't think. I just threw it down there, and it worked out well.\ Chris Ford, working hard in the corner, took a charging penalty, and Cornell went on the power play at 4· 36 The Big Red's Doug Stienstra beat Koenig on the power play, ending his shut-out streak at 198 44. With Tony Bergin in the penalty box, serv- ing a five minute major penalty for chargmg Trevor Koenig, Ford made up for his penaltv hy scor- mg lm SIXth goal and I lJ I st point of h1s career at 12 46 nf the pe- nod Th1s gave Union a four-goal cushion t.l n 1on scored two more goals 111 a penalty-filled th1rd period. as O'Fiahert:-r· netted his second of the night. Moody registered his fourth assist of the game on the play. The Dutchmen ended the scoring with seven goals. as Reck in got his second goal of the season when he picked up a loose rebound in the crease and poked 1t into the net Cornell applied some pressure late in the period, but Koenig was solid, stoppmg a total oftwenty-two shots The win, coupled with a Princeton tie, gave Union sole possession of fifth place. A win the next night against Colgate would assure the Dutchmen no worse than sixth place and a pre- liminary round bye in the play- offs. On Saturday night, the Dutch- men, in what was potentially the final game at Achilles Rink for the 13 seniors, took on the Colgate Red Raiders, who had beaten RPI Can He Go.\ The first period saw little ac- tion, as neither team could mus- ter any offense. Union's best chance came when Charlie Moxham centered a pass for Mark Szucs from behind the net the assist with Ryan Donovan and Campbell getting the assists. Harder was phenomenal in the net for Colgate in the third, turn- ing away all nine of Union's shots. The Dutchmen's best chance to score came when ·----------------------------------------------------------------------~ U11itm's graduating class (left to right) Top Row: Jaime Antoine, Ryan Donovan, Jay Prentice, Craig Reckin, Russ Monteith, Greg Buchanan, Seabrook Satterlund, Bill Moody. Bottom Row: John Sicinski, Chris Ford, Patrick O'Flaflerty, Chad Thompson, Andrew Will. (photo by Laurel Ruma lTC) ----- 3-2 the previous night. Prior to the start ofthe game, the seniors were honored at center ice. Achilles Rink was adorned by a number of banners, including some ex- pressing thanks and appreciation for the play of the seniors. An- other banner read, \Trevor Koenig 1.87 (GAA) ... How Low Szucs one-timed it, but the Colgate goaltender Shep Harder was there to make a split-save. Rob Marra got the Red Raid- ers on the board at 4:07 of the period as he beat Koenig with a blast from the point. John Sicinski evened the score at 6:59 as he scored his sixteenth goal of O'Fiaherty deflected an Andrew Will shot from the point that hit the inside of the post and bounced out with under a minute remain- ing in the period. Will had a strong rush down the i~e in the closing seconds of the overtime, but Harder was there to make the save in the crease on Will's last Men's Basketball Fjnishes League Season Freshmen-Saturated Team Avoids the UCAA Basement by Frank Rossi Sports Editor The best is yet to come for the Shooting Dutchmen, and their league results point to a great 1997-98 season. For now. they have two non-league games to go atter concluding their league sea- son with an 89-77 loss to Skidmore on Friday and a 77-70 victory over RPI on Saturday On Friday night, Union faced a young Skidmore team which they defeated earlier in the sea- son in Saratoga Union started the first half in great shape. Even though Union was outshot in the first half (50 percent to 44 per- Men's Ice Hockey 2/28 at Princeton - 7:30 3/l at Yale- 7:00 Women's Ice Hockey 2/28 vs. Massachusetts- 4:30 cent), Union sophomore Rob Groelz continued his team-lead- ing scoring pace as he scored 17 points in the first half Union's 43-36 half-time lead was not enm1gh to hold off the charging Thoroughbreds T C Coleman scored 21 of his game-high 30 points in the second half, leading Skidmore to a twelve-point vic- tnrv Coleman's effort was backed up by David Burch's 25 points for Skidmore. Union's Doyin Richards also had a good second half, hut his 20 points and Groelz's 25 points could not beat Skidmore's 53 points in the second half The first time these teams met, Union Men's Basketball 2/28 vs. King's Point- 7:30 Men's Swimming 2/27- 3/1 Home (States) - 7:00 scored 50 points in the first half, meaning both games were de- cided by one strong half Head Coach Robert Montana blamed the loss on the positioning of Skidmore's Burch. ccSkidmore did a great job of isolating their leading-scorer in the post posi- tion. We had a difficult time de- fending him there.\ On Saturday, the men wanted to finish out the league season with a head of steam. This meant they would have to sweep arch- rival RPI. Last season, the Engi- neers swept the Dutchmen, and the Dutchmen wanted to return the favor The scoring throughout the game was nip and tuck for 59 minutes. Neither team could re- ally dominated the pace, but Union was able to gain a five- point lead by half-time. The sec- ond halfbrought forth an unlikely hero for the Dutchmen in Shane Cahill. This freshman played only 18 minutes off the bench and scored 20 points (six for seven on the floor, seven for eight in free throws) These 20 points repre- sented half of the Dutchmen's 40 points in the second half as they shook off the Engineers in the fi- nal minute, 77-70 Coach Montana was impressed with his team's pi ay on Saturday in front of a decent Memorial Fieldhouse crowd. \The kids did a great job in playing a physical game, and they did not give into Rensselaer's physical play. Shane Cahill did a great job com- ing off the bench and executing our half-court offense. He made some big plays for us.\ Three other players scored double dig- its for Union, as Rich Gilooly and Zena Woldeyesus both had ten and Rob Groelz added 12 points. Rensselaer was unable to con- vert Union's 14 turnovers into a victory Jason Poselovich led all scorers with 21 points, but Union shot over 50 percent for the game. The Union Dutchmen ( 6-17, 4- 8 UCAA) can finish no worse than fifth in the UCAA. ahead of both RPI and Skidmore, as re- maining UC AA games will not affect the middle of the standings. Union still must play two chal- lenging non-league games against Middlebury on Tuesday (after press deadline) and King's Point on Friday ( 7PM at the Memorial Fieldhouse). Friday's game will mark the final game for Union senior Doyin Richards, whose rebound- ing and scoring helped the Dutch- men to their decent UCAA mark this season. This past weekend, Richards grabbed 14 rebounds, giving him the team lead for re- bounds per game ( 5.5 per game). With only one senior leaving the team, the Dutchmen are in great shape for next season. Coach Montana is content with his team's play this league sea- son. ''I'm disappointed we couldn't beat Skidmore, but it was a solid finish.\ With possibly UCAA-bound King's Point com- ing to town Friday, Montana hopes to see his team complete a great finish. \We hope to finish on a positive note as we spring- board into next year with a I ittle bit more of an experienced lineup.\ shot. The game ended in a l-1 tie. Sicinski felt that \ ... it was a good hard-working hockey game. Both teams were going. Both teams had quality chances. You've got to enjoy playing those kind of games, especially 1his late in the season. Those are the kind of games that are going to be [played] when playoff time comes around.\ Donovan added that the game was an exciting one to play. \I think the whole game was exciting. It was end-to-end action. It was tight checking, but there were a lot of [scoring] op- portunities That's just the kind of game that any college pi aver wants to plav\ With this tie. the Dutchmen's record is now I 0-7-3 in the ECt\l' and 17-10-3 overall Thetie moves them back into a tie for fifth place with the Princeton TI- gers, two points behind both RPI and Vennont Union's worst pos- sible finish is now seventh, which would mean a home playoff pre- liminary game. The most likely finish is fifth or sixth, a pre I imi- nary round bye, and a road game in the quarterfinals (see article, this section). Umon travels to Princeton and Yale next weekend in the crucial final two games of the regular season. Between The Pipes Jay Prentice was a late scratch Saturday night as he suffered from back spasms. Trevor Koenig saw his goals against av- erage drop to 1.83 after stopping 21 shots against Colgate. tJuion M~n,,;s BasketbaU 19~:6-97 UCAA Recap Here are the resultsfrorn the Union ,College men's basketball UCAA rhatchups: · 12/07 vs. Clarkson - '66-,59 Loss. (0-1) 1/iS vs. St. Lawrence 97-59 Loss (0-2) .I /24 at Rensselaer {}9--67 Victory ( 1-2) 1/25 at Skidmore 89-72 Victory (2-2) l!3l'vs. Hamilton . 34-77 Victory (3-2) 2/1 vs. Hobart 62--59 Loss (3-3) 217 at Clarkson . '64·48LQss{3~4) 2/8 at St. Lawrence · ·· 71.,_6$ ~~ss (3·5) . :&rt5 :atJiobart;. . '''~<ltiJ,·Lo~,s {3~1-) · 2/2 fvs. Skidmore 89 .. 77 Loss (3-S) 2/22 vs. Rensselaer 77--70 Victory ( 4 ... 8) I i r l.

S 1orts _ · · · 'QII ~ Qln~n;or-vintsts • February 27, 1997 • Page 15 - ------ -~ ___ __. --- Skatin-g Dutchmen ..-. :. '-,Playoff Scenarios by Fr~nk R-ossi' Sports Editor Lindros~andMarkM~ssier.Then A . - Bettman.and <>x have - With the final week.ofleague hard time concentratin~ on rii\]· ·--~trivial izes this qJiee tnighty sport. . - there!s .Tphn Davidson. N(!.Yf:~-l,ro · ifon~ exaciJy' ,w.baJ 'Da'lli:d_ Stern ·- phiy in. the ECA C, there is still a homework, sn I wander~d over to - '· ~nether \nffty; invention that sure tha( aft ih~ ~-i:ntelfLget~t';~\' atrd ~~~- have):lon~: _the}i have -thick fog hanging over the play- the television and fl:ip.ped on thetechnolri~i'calge-n-iuses at Fox Rangers fansi wiil disag'ree ~i'ti1 - eoi:riprom'ised tl1li:in~;£gdty of a - off scenarios for the UQion Col- everybody's favorite Sllper~sta- - have 6Feited is the \!! Rii>bot~' llle he~e when I say ihat Mr. ':·enice-great SpOrt for'reV'ellue and . lege Skating Dutchmen. tion-Fox. To my deligltt,there as -l affectionately tall it. After -P.avidson has to b~- the worst- . a 1~-ger\faA base... . In this article, we wiillook at was a hockey game in progress. I . · ea~h:teani s~;:are-s a goal, thi-s to• ·.color commentator in·the-gan1e: '_ Pro. basketball' 'has become a the scenarios in which Union have seen a Fox broad~stbefore,. ho~· with tb~ crest of the tea-m that He does have a vast knowledg~_ joke t<>\wat~h. lt is only a bunch would play at home. If Union and let me. tell you, therea:remany just~stored, 'Pops 1;1p on your :oftne sport of hockey,. but whell of hi_g]liy\'paid babies wllo have . finishes in third or fourth, Union other me-re pleasanttllings to. .sct¢eri. and hits a puck wfth the . it comes to doing·a-game-otrTV, llO- i'espect for the ga1ne tH for its would play a three game series watch {a piranha ri:ppi11g apart - syrn'bo·f «:lf the op-posing team.· · Davidson comes across as an- ttaditiot'ls. - at Achil-les against the fifth or human fll!sh comes tmnit1d). Fox .. -Never m;ind t_hat there is a game other one of the many cranialc. the thing that makes Vlat¢hing sixth place team, respectfully (a has been more dettimentaloto the going in the background while deficient announcers. These two hockey on F<lx ~nexplica;bly pain- maximum of three games in NHL th~n Gt:Iry Bettman They this sflly little show is going on. belong on Sportscentet. Heck, ful is all the hi- fi grap-hics and which the first team to win three have done the unitrtaginallle: they The act takes no mare than ten the guys there don't have a due techno music that they play be- points wins). have destroyed this. great game seconds, but overthe ~ourse of a as to what is going on· either:. fore each game. They llave some If Union achieves fifth or sixth that we call hockey. T11¢Y have game when a score is 5-4 or 3-2, I had thought that the demise guy talk about each tea:tn, while .place, Union will not play a home instituted this new 1 ·F(}x-ti:ax\' ~-· you begin to develop a certain ofthe NHL had come when Gary they 'bombard the vie\.Ver with game as they must visit the fourth puck. They use sensors .around nausea. Bettman changed the names of . these··pictures of the g<Jalie mak- or third place team for the first the glass at the rink to Jllial<e the The broadcasters make Fox the conferences to- more ''-geo- ing a big save or a deftensemeh round. Seventh place, the worst puck glow on your tele.visi(m NHL even more despicable. graphicaHy- \centered names. laying someone out. 111 this age the Dutchmen can finish, would screen back horne. Now-; if you James Brownsits intlwstudioand The Campbell Conference and ofadv;;tnced technology, there is breed a preliminary game on are watching hockey alld you c;io spews idiotic commeAts about the Wale$ Conference cease to something lost-1 ike integrity. Tuesday night at Achilles against notknowwherethepuckis,.Isug- each team. -I_ am almost positive exist, and -so dO some divisions Hockeyisnotaboutloud,,obnox- the tenth-place ECAC team. gest doing something else more that he thinks that there are only with the names- of hockey pio- ious music or moronic c:oJnputer Here is how Union would play productive with your time. This three worthwhile players in the neers, such a$ Norris, Patrick, :graphics. It is about ski!~; finesse, at home: glowing puck, among other things , ·league-Mario Lemieux, Eric Smyth,-and my personal favorite, and shear power and s1r4flngth. Third or fourth place is pos- . .sible only with a victory over WoRlen's H_ :_o·c_key.-_·. s_ ·-_P·. 1_· its Track Finishes Stron~.·. PrincetononFriday, IfVermont _ · loses to Brown or Harvard, or if · · · · · · ·· · ateam,wewereverypleasedwith · · ·· · · - · · .. · · jinnp, Roy just Inisse<i a meal · RPipicksuplessthantwopoints by_ Jody Mou.ssea_ 11 • · our p' ern_' onriance. A lot of what · by Jason_ Eve. rett · finishing in seventh p·· I ace with a -o rt. ur. t n ~ .. ur. t this weekend, a l)nion sweep ~po 'S rrfl er. _ _ we h_-ave o_'een striving for has ~pand·nrl er · le. ap of 12.72m. Juni()r Mike would lead to at least fourth place This pastweekend,theSkacting 'cometogetherfotus.\ : The men's and women'strack Marti-n t1nished thirteenth with a (ifVennontand RPI both \tank\ Dutchwomen experi'encedtnixed Saturdaypreser1tedthe.Skating teamstraJeled to Saint Lawrence jmnp of 12.16m. ln theslclot put, the weekend, a Union sweep resuits,beatirlgBostonUniversity · Dutehwomen With a ntore diffi..:· University this past weekend to sophomore Jenne! R(:)y~l had a would mean third place). Union on Friday:Februacy 21 h1 a 7-2 . cult challenge, when they fell to cotnpete in the New Yotk State good day with throw of ·12.62m wins a hea.d-to-hel:ld tie-breaker victozy and losing to Sacred Heart· Sacfed Heart tJniveisity'svarsitY Collegiate Track Conference In- finishing in 'the top half of the against Vennont, but not against University on Saturday, February team in a 6-2 loss at Achilles door Championships. Consider- .·field. · , . . . ·RPI. . 22 'in a 6 .. 2 lo~S. · · - · · . . : Rin~- · Earli'er;tli\s ye~,. Union· · ing.the·men finished h:tst year fn :\ Th~ only o~l)et inqiv i<JLI~d ~~n- · 4 ..., vict_pt:..,._Ag\Mri~t iPrinceton .. Tt.fe Union! W0-ih'~n:.'s lee 'p'layea Sacred Heart in an a'W'ay sixtli p'lace,_ tliis'year's twelfth ~ nertOrthe Diii:ciu~~nLlvv'a~·j·unlor\' .... ~. \'J and ~wo lo~s~s by Vermont HQckey team traveled to B()ston game:• · Though the. ~i~al ~scot~. place finish was a major·-disap- . Co-c~ptain·Ja¥ G_oipberg~who ran . woulcl -afSo guarantee fourth University last Friday with the f~om the previous game was 4-l, pointment.. However, this was.,- a personal best by six semnds in place for Union. JfUnion loses pride in knowihg that they were the level of play presented by the expected with the loss of two of the 3DOO,m. Goldberg ft11i.shed the to Princeton and beats Yale, a much better team titan their \Qnion~women) ic~ hockey tearr1: . the premier runners in the state in l91apc~ntest in 9:25.S7. Union cannot finish fourth. overall recor_d indicated_ Similar in their ,Saturday game against peter Flynn and Nick Conway to The. lone women's sco~er once A loss to Princeton would to last week's game ttgainst Sacre.9Heartwasmuchmorein- tenns abroad, and seniors Seth again this year was sopl1omore Skidmore College, the Skating di~at.iveoftheir.qverall ~bility. Rudin and Mike Leding togradu- Jessica Goveia in the lOOOm. Dutch women outskated and The Skating Dutchwomen lost .ation. The women, on the other Goveia,coming ofT a strong meet outplayed Boston in every aspect to Sacred Heart only ·in terms of . hand, finished in thirteenth place at Hamilton last week, r<~n a te- ofthegatne, which allowed them · goals. ~nion skated with Sacred with one point in an almost car- nacious race in the I OO(lrn trials, to clinch their _win with a lead in . Hea~ played the ne!Jtral zone, bon copy of last year. finishing in 3:13 to quality for the the third period. . and stepped up their defense and Despite the disappointing team finals_ Goveia, who firtished a The Skating DutchW()Inen en- offense to match thz ability of results, the men and women's surprising fourth last yea.rwith a I tered the thir~ period witll a 3-2 Sacred Heart. ,Union's only two squads had several outstanding tremendous last lap, ran a hard lead. They came in and !>ecured goals in their 6-2 loss.were scored efforts. Leading the way for the fought final 1/4 mile once again their win with four goal:; in the by Yamashita and Wilbur. men in his final indoor meet at in the finais of the I OO<:ltn. De- third,allowingBostonas~oreless . \lt was a disappointing loss, Union was senior co-captain spite the strong finishirtg kick, period. Senior forwanl Hana esp~cially because the score Dave Riggi. Riggi competed in Goveia finished in sixth place, in Yamashita -led the Sl<ating di.dn't indicate the !eve~ of play,\ both the 55m and th~ 200m tak- a personal best 3: 12.7(}, while Dutchwomen in scoring with two commented Felton. \Hopefully ing second and third respectively. rut;m ing over two secomls faster goals, accompani~d by one goal . we can just builc;l on the good In the 55m, Rigg_i finished second than l~st year's fourth place fin- each from junior forwarcl Sarah things from the game and go from for the fourth straight year on,the . isfi.. : · . . · Wilbur, sophomore defense Sar~ there-.\. short track, in a. quick 6-.59 SC.Q-' •. , -; THe only' otherwometi,'s indi- Moss, senior f.o.rward Laura The. Skating I?utchwomen onds, after a 6.70 and 6.73 in the ::vidual rullner was soph!lmore Felton, sopho.more forward .presently stand with a 7-8-1 over- preliminaries. In the 200m, Riggi _)(.atie MacDoweti .in the l500m. Hilary Fitts, arid junior it'efen~e-. . aU record and a 7-2 r~cord against ran a seasonal best 23 .. 60 .. Despite-\ . MacDowell-has had severam note- Tracy Marquis, Sopllom<>re club temns. This Friday, Febru- looking t.o defend his outdoor. wotthypertbnnances anitlooked Lauren Locke defended th:e net . ary 2&th, the Union Women's Ice 200m crown in the spring, inJ-J.i.s.' ·· to fOi)tihl;le.:l;t~r ~ucces:siniiersea­ for Union's v.\~tory:agaiJlst :B~s~ 'Hockey tea~ will play theirlast four years at Union, Riggi has· sot:~. fina.fe. MacDowell r:ap an ton University. · :I:tome_gatne.ofthe 1996-97 sea- been consistently one of the best· ,aggres,siver,ace intbetrial~; quali- Senior tri-captain Kri~teen son at Acl}illes Rink against the · · sprinters in the state in his spe- . )ying:her·f.orthefinals the fQIIow~ Hoffinan commented onth.e Skat_- University ~f ·rviassach usett~ · cia! ties, and will surely be missed ' irrg dey. ll! ~he finals, Mac:D.owell · Dutchwoi'nen 1 s · · · 4:30. · · · nextyear. ' fuida.bitofanoffl-ace,par:tlyat:- The other scorer for the men tributed to a quick start., a11d fin- WaS fellow senior Jason Jennings .ished in !:leventh place in 5:20.08. in the long jump. Jennings fin- The women's 4x400rn team of . ished in fi~h place with a leap -of Sara Gower, Daniel Ia Chiull i, . 6.40 meters. Jennings also was · · Brenna ·Maguire-, and Q-()veia ran , competing in his. final indoor awaywiththeirmilerela~towin meet here at Union. Jennings is by a huge margin in a _time of ,looking forward to the outdoor 4:46.32. Turning to the . track season field,senior co-captain Michelle The men's 4x400m relay team Woodward, competing in tier fi- of Brian Roy, :t\1ike Martin, nal indoor meet in the weight ·. Travis Reap, and Kenny Scott fin- throw, threw a distance of 9.53 ished tenth of fourteen teams in a meters to finish in seve-nteenth time of 3:43.18. In· the triple place in the field. mean possibly seventh place for Union. If Union .ties Yale and Colgate picks up three points, or if Union loses to Yale and Colgate picks up at .least two points, Union would finish in seventh (Colgate beats Union in a head-to-head tie-breaker). A preliminary game at Achilles in this situation would be against Dartmouth, St. Lawrence, or Yale. The scenario which most pe.ople are pointing to is the \RPI\ scenario. JfVennont picks up more points. th~n RPI this weekend and Union-remains in fifth, o·r if RPI reri1aih-s in third and Union falls to s~th, Union would visit RPI for :thefr first round ofthe playoffs. JfUnion picks up three or four points, Vermont picks up at least three points, and RPI fai.ls -tb. win a point, Union would f:Iosl RPI at . AchiUes. RPI beatUriion at the Houston Fieldhow,se ';ii)juch a series in 1994. -- · Right now; a home playoffse- ries would probably be against the surprising Vermont Cata- mounts. Vermont was favored to win the league, but the team has waffled over the past two weeks. Union split the season series against the Catamounts . Should the Skating Dutchmen finish third or fourth for a home series, or seventh for a home pre- liminary game, tune in to 89.7FM- WRUC Schenectady for ticket details on Sunday. -

Saturday afternoon, I had a hard time concentrating on l:ri.y homework,so I wandered over to the television and flipped on everybody's favorite super-sta- tion-Fox. To my delight, there was a hockey game in progress. I have seen a Fox broadcast before, and let me tell you, there are many other more pleasant things to watch (a piranha ripping apart humanfleshcomestomind). Fox has been more detrimental to the NHL than Gary Bettman. They have done the tmimaginable: they have destroyed this great game that we call hockey. They have instituted this new \Fox-trax\ puck. They use sensors around the glass at the rink to make the puck glow on your television screen back home. Now, if you are watching hockey and you do not know where the puck is, I sug- gest doing something else more productive with your time. This glowing puck, among other things which I will mention in a 111oment, trivial izes this once mighty sport. Another \nifty\ inventi(m that ~he technological geniuses at Fox have created is the \FOJc Robot,\ as I affectionately call it. After each team scores a goal, this ro- bot, with the crest of the team that just scored, pops up <Jn your screen and hits a puck with the symbol of the opposing team. Never mind thatthere is a ga1ne going in the background while this silly little show is going on. The act takes no more tb.an ten seconds,. but over the course of a game when a score is 5-4 <Jr 3-2, you begin to develop a ce1tain nausea. The broadcasters malce Fox NHL even more despicable. James Brown sits in the stlldio and spews idiotic comments about each tearn. I am almost positive that he thinks that there are only three worthwhile players in the league-Mario Lemieux, Eric Women's Hockey Splits by Jody Mousseau Sports Writer This past weekend, the Skating Dutchwomen experienced mixed results, beating Boston University on Friday, February 21 in a 7-2 victory and losing to Sacred Heart University on Saturday, February 22 in a 6-2 Joss. The Union·WoJtlen's Ice Hockey team traveled to Boston University last Friday with the pride in knowing that they were a much better team than their overall record indicated. Similar to last week's game against Skidmore College, the Skating Dutchwomen outskated and outplayed Boston in every aspect ofthe game, which allowed them to clinch their win with a lead in the third period. The Skating Dutchwomen en- tered the third period with a 3-2 lead. They came in and secured their win with four goals in the third, allowing Boston a scoreless period. Senior forward Hana Yamashita led the Skating Dutchwomen in scoring with two goals, accompanied by one goal each from junior forward Sarah Wilbur, sophomore defense Sarah Moss, senior forward Laura Felton, sophomore forward Hilary Fitts, and junior defense Tracy Marquis. Sophomore Lauren Locke defended the net for Union's victory against Bos- ton University. Senior tri-captain Kristeen Hoffman commented on the Skat- 011. a team, we were very pleased with our performallce. A lot ofwhat we have been striving for has come together for us.\ Saturday presented the Slating Dutchwomen with a more diffi- cult challenge, when they fell to Sacred Heart University'svarsity team in a 6-2 loss at Ac:hilles Rink. Earlier this year., Union played Sacred Heart in an away game. Though the final score from the previous game was 4-1, the level of play presented l:ly the Union women's ice hockey team in their Saturday game against Sacred Heart was much more in- dicative of their overall ability. The Skating Dutchw?men lost to Sacred Heart only in terms of goals. Union skated with Sacred Heart, played the neutral zone, and stepped up their cic-fense and offense to match th-: ability of Sacred Heart. Union'so11ly two goals in their6-2loss were scored by Yamashita and Wilbur. \It was a disappointin~ loss, especially because the score didn't indicate the level o fplay,\ commented Felton. \Hopefully we can just build on the good things from the game and ge> from there.\ The Skating Dutchwomen presently stand with a 7-8-1 over- all record and a 7-2 record against club teams. This Friday, F ebru- ary 28th, the Union Womm 's Ice Hockey team wil I play their last home game of the 1996-'97 sea- son at Achilles Rink against the University of Massachusetts Amherst at 4:30. Lindros, and Mar<k Messier. Then there's.John Davidson. Now,I;m sure that all the \intelligent\ Rangers fans wil:l disagree with me here when l say that Mr. Davidson has to be the worst color commentator in the game. He does have a vast knowledge of the sport of 1:! ock ey, but wheH it comes to doiNg a game on TV, Davidson comes across as an- other one of the many cranial- deficient announcers. These two belong on Sportscenter. Heck, the guys there don't have a clue as to what is going on either. I had thought that the demise of the NHL had COllle when Gary Bettman changed the names of the conferences to more \geo- graphically- \cell tered names. The Campbell Conference and the Wales Conference cease to exist, and so do some divisions with the names of hockey pio- neers, such as Norris, Patrick, Smyth, and my personal favorite, Adams. Bett1nan and Fox have done exactly what David Stem and NBC have done: they have comprornised the integrity of a once-great sport for revenue and a larger fan base. Pro basketball has become a joke to watch. It is only a bunch of highly-paid babies who have 110 respect for the game or for its .traditions. The thing that makes watching hockey on Fox inexplicably pain- ful is all the l~i-fi graphics and techno music that they play be- foreeach game. They have some guy talk about each team, while they bombard the viewer with these pictures of the goalie mak- ing a big save or a defensemen laying someone out. In this age of advanced technology, there is something lost-like integrity. Hockey is not about loud, obnox- ious rnusic or moronic computer graphics. It is about skill, finesse, and shear power and strength. Track Finisj~~~y ~,!r,~~~~ by Jason Everett finishing in. seventh place with a Sports Writer leap of 12.72m. Junior Mike The men's and women's track Martin finished thirteenth with a teams traveled to Saint Lawrence jump of 12.16m. In the shot put, University this past weekend to sophomore Jenne! Royal had a compete in the New York State good day with throw of 12.62m Collegiate Track Conference In- finishing in the top half of the door Championships. Consider- field. ing the men finished last year in Tl1e only other individual run- sixth place, this year's twelfth ner for the Dutchmen was junior .. place finish was a major disap- Co-captain Jay Goldberg who ran pointment.. However, this was a personal best by six seconds in expected with the loss of two of the 3000m. Goldberg finished the the premier runners in the state in 19 lap contest in 9:25.87. Peter Flynn and Nick Conway to The lone women's scorer once terms abroad, and seniors Seth again this year was sophomore RudinandMikeLedingtogradu- Jessica Goveia in the 1000m. ation. The women, on the other Goveia, coming off a strong meet hand, finished in thirteenth place at Hamilton last week, ran a te- with one point in an almost car- nacious race in the 1 OOOm trials, bon copy of last year. finishing in 3. 13 to qual ily for the Despite the disappointing team finals. Govcia, who finished a results, the men and women's surprising fourth last year with a squads had several outstanding tremendous last lap, ran a hard efforts. Leading the way for the fought final 1/4 mile once again men in his final illdoor meet at in the finals of the l OOOm. De- Union was senior co-captain Dave Riggi. Riggi competed in both the 55m and the 200m tak- ing second and third respectively. In the 55m, Riggi finished second for the fourth straigllt year on the short track, in a qLiick 6.59 sec- onds, after a 6. 70 and 6. 7 3 in the preliminaries. Inthe200m, Riggi ran a seasonal best23.60. Despite looking to defend his outdoor 200m crown in the spring, in his four years at Union, Riggi has been consistently one of the best sprinters in the state in his spe- cialties, and will surely be missed next year. The other scorer for the men was fellow senior Jason Jennings in the long jump. Jennings fin- ished in fif~h place -with a leap of 6.40 meters. Jennings also was competing in his final indoor meet here at Union. Jennings is looking forward to the outdoor track season The men's 4x400m relay team of Brian Roy, Mike Martin, Travis Reap, and Kenny Scott fin- ished tenth of fourteen teams in a time of 3:43.18. In the triple spite the strong finishing kick, Goveia finished in sixth place, in a personal best 3:12 70, while running over two seconds faster than last year\s fourth place fin- ish. The only other women's indi- vidual runner was sophomore Katie MacDowell in the 1500m. MacDowell has had several note- worthy perfonnances and looked to continue her success in her sea- son finale. MacDowell ran an aggressive race in the trials, quali- fyingherforthe finals the follow- ing day. In the finals, MacDowell had a bit of an off race, partly at- tributed to a quick start, and fin- ished in seventh place m5:20.08 The women's4x400m team of Sara Gower, Daniell a Chiull i, Brenna Maguire, and Goveia ran away with their mile relay to win by a huge margin in a time of 4:46.32. Turning to the field,scnior co-captain Michelle Woodward, competing i·, her fi- nal indoor meet in the weight throw, threw a distance of 9 53 meters to finish in seventeenth place in the field. Skating Dutchmen Playoff Scenarios by Frank Rossi Sports Editor With the final week of league play in the ECAC, there is still a thick fog hanging over the play- off scenarios for the Union Col- lege Skating Dutchmen. In this article, we will look at the scenarios in which Union would play at home. If Union finishes in third or fourth, Union would play a three game series at Achilles against the fifth or sixth place team, respectfully (a maximum of three games in which the first team to win three points wins). IfUnion achieves tifth or sixth place, Union will not play a home game as they must visit the fourth or third place team for the first round. Seventh place, the worst the Dutchmen can finish, would breed a pre! im inary game on Tuesday night at Achilles against the tenth-place ECAC team. Here is how Union would play at home: Third or fourth place is pos- sible only with a victory over Princeton on Friday. If Vermont loses to Brown or Harvard, or if RPI picks up less than two pomts this weekend, a Union sweep would lead to at least fourth place (ifVennontand RPI both \tank\ the weekend, a Umon sweep would mean third place). Union wins a head-to-head tie-breaker against Vermont, but not against RPI. A victory _ag(;ljnst 1 Princeton and two losses by Vermont would also guarantee fourth place for Union If Union loses to Princeton and beats Yale, Union cannot finish fourth. A loss to Princeton would mean possibly seventh place for Union. If Union ties Yale and Colgate picks up three points, or if Union loses to Yale and Colgate picks up at least two points, Union would finish in seventh (Colgate heats Union in a head-to-head tie-breaker) A preliminary game at Achilles in this situation would be against Dartmouth, St. Lawrence, or Yale. The scenario which most people are pointing to is the \RPI\ scenario. IfVennontpicks up more points than RPI this weekend and Union remains in fifth, or if RPI remains in third and Union falls to sixth, Union would visit RPI for their first round ofthe playoffs. If Union picks up three or four points. Vermont picks up at least three points, and RPI fails to win a point, Union would host RPI at Achilles. RPI beat Union at the Houston Fieldhouse in such a series in !994 Right now, a home playoff se- ries would probably be against the surprising Vermont Cata- mounts. Vermont was favored to win the league, but the team has waffled over the past two weeks. Umon split the season series against the Catamounts Should the Skating Dutchmen tinish third or fourth for a home series, or seventh for a home pre- ! iminary game, tune in to 89 7FM - WRUC Schenectady for ticket details on Sunday. -

Union Gains More Respect In Thre~ .. Foint Weekend Crucial Final Weekend Lies Ahead For Dutchmen hy :Jonathan Gasthalter Sports Editor The skating Dutchmen, tied for fifth place with a league record of 9-7-2 and an overall record of 16·1 0-2, came into AclliHes Rink Friday night to battle the number oneteam in the league and tenth ranked in the nation Cornell, a team the Dutchmen had tied 3-3 in Ithaca early in December. Union, hav- ing shut-out Vermont and Dartmouth last weekend by 2-0 in both games, was looking for 1norerespect around the league. The team has slowly been gain- ing that recognition, especially since its goaltender, juni:o-r Trevor Koenig, caine into the ncning leading the country in goals against average (I 91) and in save percentage (.938). With the playoffs looming in the back of the players and coaches minds, the teams took the ice in front of2,313 raucous fans. Union played str~ng from the start, winning its one-on-one- battles in the corners behind the net of Cornell goaltender Jason E:ltiot. The 'butch~en scored on thei·r first opportunity of the game. Russ Monteith, afterwin- ning. a number of battles in the cornet, sent the puck to Seabrook Satterlund at the point. Satterlund fired a shot that de- flected off of a Cornell defender's skate and right to M()nteith, who.put it past Elliot. An effective forecheck led to Unicn' s second goal Ryan Campbell took a cross-ice pass fr()rn Jay Prentice, who was -wearing the \A\ for Assistant Captain on his sweater for the first time this season, and put a wrist-shot past Elliot to give Uni()n a 2-0 lead at 9:25 of the first peried. Cornell decided that two goals on three shots was enough and pulled Elliot in fa- vor of -sophomore Jean~Marc Pelletier. Pelletier would have lli~ problems as well, as the Dutchmen peppered him with sh.ots. Campbell got his second ()fthe everting with 1 :02 left in tl1e period, as he knocked there- bottnd of a Bill Moody shot from th.e point past Pelletier to give Union a 3-0 lead. As the period expired, Koenig put his name in tlte ECAC record books by not allowing a goal in 189:48, break- ittg the old mark set by Cornell's Bl\ian Cropper in 1969-70. Union came out with the same intensity for the second period. At2:33 of the period, Moody fo11nd a streaking Patrick 0 'Flaherty on the right wing boards. O'Fiaherty skated in alone and scored on the breakaway to give the Dutchmen a 4-0 lead. \I was coming be- hind the net, and I knew Reck in Continued page 1 B \ •' .. - .. ':-~\(\~ Tl1e .natioll 's leading-goaltender, junior Trevor Koenig makes a save in UnioJI 's 7-1 romp tJVer Comell, .(plwto by Lautie Kirsclmer). Women's Swimming Fini-shes Third In St,ates by Sarah Rosen Sports Writer Last weekend, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute hosted the annual New York State Women's Collegiate Athletic Association Swimming and Diving Champi- onship. Union's women's swim- ming and diving teams were among the fifteen teams who competed in this year's State Championships. hi the diving cotnpetition,. freshman Heather Weisenfluh had an impressive and-consistent four days. Thirty four divers competed for first pl.ace. Weisenfhth took second in the 1 meter competition with a score of 359. 10. In the 3 meter competi- tion, Weisenfluh placed fourth, with a score of 322.65 after spraining her thumb on the sixth dive out of a total of twelve. Weisenfluh qualified for the na- tional diving meet in earlier com- petitions this season. She will be traveling to Miami of Ohio on March 5 to compete in the 1 meter competition. The women's swim team had a fabulous meet. Of the seventeen swimmers, fi.fteen produced per- sonal best times during the meet. Three individuals and two relays swam with times fast enough to qualify for the NCAA Swimrn ing and Diving Meet which will be . ' . also be held at Miami of Ohio nextmonth. . Thefutureislooking bright for Union's women's swimming and diving team. The freshman con- tingent swam an impressive meet. Freshman Erin Wittes placed sec- ond in the 400 IM with a time of 4:49.:21. Freshman Kelen Barr took fourth on the SO freestyle with a thne of24,88, atitne which makes Barr eligible for the na- tional meet. Barr went on to take seventh in the 100 freestyle with a time of 54:54, another time good enough to .allow:her to com- pete in the Nati·onal Meet. Two of Union's Telay teams swam with qual ify.ing times for the national tournament. The first relay team, a medley relay, con· sisted of Sarah Sp.aut<ling, Meg McCarthy, Jackie Crane and Barr. They took second i11 tile race with a nationa.J..,q:ual ifying time ,of 4:04:54. The second relay was the 400 freestyle relay. The team composed of Crane,. McCarthy, Barr, and Kerry Libr.amti, placed third with a national qualify·ing .time of3:39.98. McCarthy swam a phenom~n~tl meet. She placed first in all of her individual events, broke: a school record, and secured. ber spot in the National Meet. ln the 200 IM, McCarthy placed fi:rst with a time of2 t ·1.12. In th~ 1 ~0 breast stroke, McCarthy plac;ed first with a time of I :07.39. In the 200 breast stroke she placed firstwith a timeof2:24.81, a titne which broke. the school record which she ·had previously set at Co11tfr1Ued poge 17 Jamieson swimming freestyle iiJ.t/teSttitte Meet (plroto by Laurie Kirsclwer ffC)

1 flRiiliinPPN n w rRr r ••nnww +!Nil • .,. 'T! Of' c:;;;__ _____ ··-----·····-·----·-·--··------- ·==;;;;:c Union Gains More Respect In Three-Point Weekend Crucial Final Weekend Lies Ahead For Dutchmen In .Jonathan (;a~thalter Sport.<; Editor The skatmg Dutchmen, tied for fifth rlaec \\llh a league record of9-7-\2 and an overall record of 16-1 0-:!. came into Achilles Rink Friday night to battle the number one team in the league and tenth ranked in the nation Cornell, a team the Dutchmen had tied 3-3 in Ithaca early in December. Union, hav- ing shut-out Vermont and Dartmouth last weekend by 2-0 in both games, was looking for more respect around the league The team has slowly been gain- ing that recognition. especially s1nce its goaltender. junior lrn or Koenig. came into the c\ L'ning kading the countr\' in go.1l~ agamsLlH.·ragc ( I l)] ) and msa\cpereentagc( 93X) With the playoffs looming in the hack of the rla~TrS ~1nd CO~lches ·~· 1 1L~\· '!'L. ~l'.!l~''· tr'<~k t~h.' icl' 1~1 front of~.313 raucous fans l :111on played stn?ng from the start. \\ 11111111g 1ts one-on-one- battles in the corners behind the net of Cornell goaltender Jason Elliot The Dutchmen scored on their first opportunity of the game. Russ Monteith, after win- ning a number of battles in the corner, sent the puck to Seabrook Satterlund at the point. Satterlund fired a shot that de- flected off of a Cornell defender's skate and right to Monteith, who put it past Elliot. An effective forecheck led to Union's second goal. Ryan Campbell took a cross-ice pass from Jay Prentice, who was wearing the \A\ for Assistant Captain on his sweater for the first time this season, and put a wrist-shot past Elliot to give Union a 2-0 lead at 9:25 of the first period. Cornell decided that two goals on three shots was enough and pulled Elliot in fa- vor of sop.homore Jean-Marc Pelletier. Pelletier would have his problems as well, as the Dutchmen peppered him with shots. Campbell got his second of the evening with l :02 left in the period, as he knocked there- bound of a Bill Moody shot from the point past Pelletier to give Union a 3-0 lead. As the period expired, Koenig put his name in the ECAC record books by not allowing a goal in 189:48, break- ing the old mark set by Cornell's Brian Cropper in 1969-70. Union came out with the same intensity for the second period. At 2:33 of the period, Moody found a streaking Patrick 0' Flaherty on the right wing hoards. 0 'Flaherty skated in alone and scored on the breakaway to give the Dutchmen a 4-0 lead. \I was coming be- hind the net. and I knew Reck in Continued page 18 Tile nation's leadiltg gCJaltellder, junior Trevor Koenig makes a save in Unioll 's 7-1 romp over Comell. (photo by Laurie Kirschner). Women's Swimming Finishes Third In States lly Sarah Rosen Sports Writer Last weekend, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute hosted the annual New York State Women's Collegiate Athletic Association Swimming and Diving Cha111pi- onship. Union's women's swim- ming and diving teams \Vere among the fifteen teams VJho competed in this year's State Championships. In the diving competition, fresl1man Heather Weisenfluh had an impressive and consistent four days. Thirty four divers competed for first place. Weisenfluh took second in the I meter competition with a score of 3 59. 1 0 In the 3 meter competi- tion, Weisenfluh placed f<Jurth, with a score .of 322.65 after spraining her thumb on the sixth dive out of a total of twelve. Weisenfluh qualified for the na- tional diving meet in earlier com- petitions this season. SheVJi H be traveling to Miami ofOhio <Jn March 5 to compete in the 1 meter competition. The women's swim tea1n nad a fabulous meet Of the seve!lteen swimmers, fifteen producecl per- sonal best times during tllemeet Three individuals and two relays swam with times fast enough to qualify for the NCAA Swimming and Diving Meet which will be also be held at Miami of Ohio next month. The future is looking bright for Union's women's swimming and diving team. The freshman con- tingent swam an impressive meet. Freshman Erin Wittes placed sec- ond in the 400 lM with a time of 4:49.21. Freshman Kelen Barr took fourth on the 50 freestyle with a time of24.88, a time which makes Barr eligible for the na· tiona! meet. Barr went on to take seventh in the 100 freestyle with a time of 54:54, another time good enough to allow her to com- pete in the National Meet. Two of Union's relay teams swam with qualifying times for the national toumament The first relay team, a medley relay, con- sisted of Sarah Spaulding, Meg McCarthy, Jackie Crane and Barr. They took second in the race with a national qualifying time of 4:04:54. The second relay was the 400 freestyle relay. The team composed of Crane, McCarthy, Barr, and Kerry Librandi, placed third with a national qualifying Senior Kelly Jamieson swimming freestyle ill the State Meet. time of3:39.98. McCarthy swam a phenomenal meet. She placed first in all of her individual events, broke a school record, and secured her spot in the National Meet. In the 200 IM, McCarthy placed first with a time of211.12. In the 100 breast stroke, McCarthy placed first with a time of 1:07.39. In the 200 breast stroke she placed first with a time of2:24.81, a time which broke the school record which she had previously set at Continued page 17

