The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 \:·p[~m'reCX~V:lL,Nun?bcdX . ·. - .. : ··,_.·Jcheri.~·ctad~·-·Ne~v!fnd{_.·.·, .. ··,-· _.···:._ ·: . ··:,-·:·~·--.>.:·-·:·· .. ·· ~->~::'J~t1:.t~~t1'~-::l_5 7 )~~~~- • • I • • < ' • < > • • ' • ,,• • • ' ' \ ' ' ' <~ ~ ' ' ' Union Wins Third Round of Battle President Hull Eyes Possible Student Move Onto Lenox Road for Next Fall by Lee Polilwff Staff Writer gerous to the surrounding area.\ In addition to a vehement re .. sponse in the community,. Hull was condemned in the local newspa- pers. In an October 1'4, 1994 edi- torial in the DailyGazette entitled \Hull's Shameless Hardball,\ the newspaper suggested that the President's actions \make one wonder about his regard for the community and fcr,the historic sig- nificance of the plct.\ Futtucplans Union College's fight to use the. five Lenox Road homes is at a critical juncture. Led by President Roger HuU, the College has been embattled in a web of legal battles for more than five years with the city of Schenectady, in their pur .. suit to petition the Zoning Board to use the residences for off-cam- pus housing. Last year, the Third Jud-icial Department of Schenectady ruled that the origi- nal city ordinance prohibiting such a petition was unconstitutionaL However, in the most recent and decisive decision to date, the New York State Court of Appeals handed down ~ decision on De- cember 18; 1997, stating that City Code 264-8 was unconstitutional, citing that a college or university was an inherent good to the com- munity. Yet despite this, the city has .remained ()bstinate, and has not facilitated this process. Lenox Road could soon be home to Union Sit1tlents. (PI1oto by David Meguertlicllian/TC) President Hull is confident that the laws will be amended soo11. \I would like to move students in as early as. next falL~'he said .. Hull an- ticipates on creating new theme houses, and insisted that no dor- mitories would be constructed. \I want to create new housing options for students. The recent trend on most college campuses has been to reduce the number of fraterni- ties. I just want 1() make a 'level playingfield' here.\ said the Presi- dent. A victory for Union would allow more than 80 students to re- side in the residences, yielding close to $500,00() for the college. Meanwhile, students and admin- istrators wait wit11 much anticipa- tion for the next move in this on- going saga. College Landlocked \We're landlocked right now,\ said President Hull. With an ex- tremely large influx of students·, the residences on Lenox Road are the most viable options to fulfill the growing demand for student housing. The college owns five homes along the western side of the road, some which have been owned since 1961. Union has ac- quired_ the homes through gifts or from ·sale. Yet the city and the resi- dents were gravely concerned with the effects of the college acquir- ing and using the homes, as they feared the homes would be altered, ruining the aethetics of the area; the General Electric land plot is both a State and National Historic District. Moreover, the residents feared that the serenity of the area would disappear with parking New- Schedule Wreaks Havoc on Lunch, Classes, and Students by Frank Rossi Editor-ilt-Citief tough feat, as classes would be lized a 12:25 to 1:30 time slot, an crunched :into fewer time periods. examination ofthefall preregistra- The first noticeable changes tions memo shows that there were Before winter break, the Aca- came during preregistration and 28 such classes. !his term, the demic Affairs Committee (AAC) registration of classes. Because of Tuesday, Thursday, Friday time and other campus decision mak- the 12:25 to 1:30 deletion, the period is utilized b-y just six classes ers refused to bend In ---....,...-...,--;-------~-- ........ ,...,...~(some of which have their plans fora new class eliminated the Friday com .. schedule system in the · · ponent and added time to face of over 600 signa- Tuesday and Thursday). tures presented by student . The congestion ce!ltered leaders at an AAC meet- in two areas. of the regis- ing. Their wait-and-see tration of classes. Tues- attitude has produced day- Thursday classes mixed results as over the. jumped in number (see last week, the new class chart), and the pre-lunch schedule has led to sev- time period (I 1:00 to eral obvious and not-so- 12:05) continued to grow. obvious changes in Union According to a Registrar's students' lives. 2ffice source, too many The schedu1e change . professors attempted to added a uniform lunch schedule I I :00 classes, hour to an already-. forcing the office to re- crowded class schedule • quest some professors to by eliminating the 12:25 change times. While the to I :30 Monday, AAC stated during their Lines like these have plaguetllunclttime. (DMITC) Wednesday, and Friday final meeting of the fall classperiod,andthcplansmoved Ai\C added a new Tuesday, termthatpreregistrationswentfine class times back, in general, by ten Thursday, Frida) time period to under the new S)Stem, a look be- or 15 minutes. Students felt that alleviate some ofthe class conges- hind the scenes proves otherwise such <.:hangcs would crowd dining tion. While members of the i\AC as the Registrar's Office struggled halls and make class scheduling a claimed that few professors uti- News: Union Hires Webmaster Page3 Features: The Return of Planet C Page 15 problems and noise. Residents voiced their objection, citing the decision of the State Court of Ap- peals in Cornell v. Bagnardi in 1986, which stated that,\ ... a com- munity that resides in close prox- imity to a college should not be obliged to stand helpless in the face of proposed uses that are dan- r·~;~\~i~~ili~~:7i~~\~~ •···.•' .. ::c;:.:·:;:(Da:ve·,Megut:rdif.!btcan~~.·.'l!he::CoBcor¥liettsis):: Sports: Hockey Battles After Break Page 18

The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Union Wins Third Round of Battle President Hull Eyes Possible Student Move Onto Lenox Road for Next Fall by Lee Polikoff Staff Writer Union College's fight to use the five Lenox Road homes is at a critical juncture. Led by President Roger Hull, the College has been embattled in a web of legal battles for more than five years with the city of Schenectady, in their pur- suit to petition the Zoning Board to use the residences for off-cam- pus lwusing. !.as! Y'-'ar. th~ Th ircl Judicial fkrartment of Schenectad\' ruled that the ori d- . ~ ml city ordinance prohibiting such geruus to tl~e surrounding area.\ In addition to a vehement re- sponse in the community, Hull was condemned in the local newspa- pers. In an October 14, 1994 edi- torial in the Daily Ga::ette entitled \Hull's Shameless Hardball,\ the newspaper suggested that the President's actions \make one wonder about his regard for the community and for the historic sig- ni fica nee of the plot.\ Future plans <l petitit1ll \\ao,; llfll'UmtitutionaJ lln\\.t'\ l'r. in the mmt l\l'Cl'll! :u1d decisi\'c decision to date. the 1\Jt'\\ York Stat~ Court of Appc~d~ handcJ dO\\ f1 <! dl'l' i'> iPil Oil nl..'- cember 18, 1997, stating that Cit) Code 264-8 was unconstitutional, citing that a college or university was an inherent good to the com- munity. Yet despite this, the cit)' has remained obstinate, and has not facilitated this process. Lenox Road could soon be home to Union Studell1s. (Photo by Dttvitl Meguerdicltian/TC) President Hull is nmfidcnt that the Jaw-; will b~ am~ndcd '<'<'ll \I \\'Ould like to nW\'l' student~ in a' ~:arly as n~xt fall.\ he said. l lull an· ti~.:iratt·-. lHl creatint: Ill'\\ thernl· llllli\L''· ~md in,ist •. :d th:1t :1'' dPr- mitnril's would h: constructd \I \\ant to create nt.!\\ housing option~ for -,tudenh. The n.:cent trt.:nd Pll most colkgc campuses has been to reduce the number of fraterni- ties. I just want to make a 'level playingficld' here.\ said the Presi- dent. A victory for Union \vould allow more than 80 students to re- side in the residences, yielding close to $500,000 for the college. Meanwhile, students and admin- istrators wait with much anticipa- tion for the next move in this on- going saga. College Landlocked \We're landlocked right now,\ said President Hull. With an ex- tremely large influx of students, the residences on Lenox Road are the most viable options to fulfill the growing demand for studt!nt housing. The college owns five homes along the western side of the road, some which have been owned since 1961. Union has ac- quired the homes through gifts or from sale. Yet the city and the resi- dents were gravely concerned with tht.! cfft.!cts of tht.! wlkgt.! a~.:quir­ ing and using the homt.!s, as they feared the homes would be altered, ruining the aethetics of the area; the General Electric land plot is both a State and National Historic District. Moreover, the residents feared that the serenity of the area would disappear with parking New- Schedule Wreaks Havoc on Lunch, Classes, and Students by Frank Rossi tough feat, as classes would be lized a 12:25 to 1:30 time slot, an Editor-in-Citief crunched into fewer time periods. examination ofthe fall preregistra- The first noticeable changes tions memo shows that there were Before winter break, the Aca- came during preregistration and 28 such classes. This term, the demic Affairs Committee (AAC) registration of classes. Because of Tuesday, Thursday, Friday time and other campus decision mak- the 12:25 to I :30 deletion, the period is utilized by just six classes ers refused to bend In ... r:r-------------------, (some of which have their plans for a new class eliminated the Friday com- schedule system in the ponent and added time to face of over 600 signa- Tuesday and Thursday). tures presented by student The congestion centered leaders at an AAC meet- in two areas of the regis- ing. Their wait-and-see tration of classes. Tues- attitude has produced day- Thursday classes mixed results as over the jumped in number (see la~t week, the ne\\ class chart), and the pre-lunch schedule has led to sev- time period (II :00 to era] obvious and not-so- 12:05) continued to grow. obvious changes in Union According to a Registrar's students' lives. Office source, too many The schedule change professors attempted to added a uniform lunch schedule II :00 classes, hour to an alrt:ady- forcing the office to re- ~.:rowdt:d class schcduk quest some professors to b) diminating the 12:25 changt: times. \\'hik the lu 1.30 :VlunJa1, ~ ....... _.. ...... _ __..~----=~ AAC ::,l,tkJ Juring their Lilli!<\· like these have plague~! lunchtime. (DMITC) Wednesday, and Friday -------------------- final meeting of the fall class period, and the plans moVt:d class times hack. in g.ent.!ral, by ten or 15 minutes. Students felt that such changes would crowd dining halls and make class schedulin!! a <. News: 1\i\C added a nn\ Tu~:sJa). Th ur~day. Frida) time period to aile~.< iate some of the class congc~­ tion. While members of the 1\AC c bimed that few pro lessors uti- Union Hires Webmaster Pa!?;e 3 term that preregistrations went lint.! under the Ill'\\ S) stem. a look bt:- hind the ~cencs pwvt:s otht:rwise as the Rt.!gistrar's Office struggled continued on pagl! 4 Features: The Return of Planet C Page IS probkms anJ noise. Rt:sitknts voked their objection, citing the decision of the State Court of Ap- peals in Cornell v. Bagnardi in 1986, which stated that,\ ... a com- munity that resides in close prox- imity to a college should not be obliged to stand helpless in the face of proposed uses that are dan- A Whole Lot of Noise! You have heard the noise during classes, now read all about it on page 4. (Dave Meguerdichian I The Concordiensis) Sport$~ Hockey Battles After Break Page 18 ------------------------------------~

The Student Newspaper of Union College Since I 8 77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Jonathan Gasthalter and Frank Rossi EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Amy DiBattista EXECUnVE EDITOR Christopher Leone MANAGING EDITOR Peter Simon OPINIONS EDITOR Michaei DeMicco Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITORS Christopher Leone SPORTS EDITOR Lori Green Kim Robback ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT EDITORS Rol>ert Hagopian COMPU'f'ER MANAGER Michelle Tham FEATURES EDITOR ll rika Mancini EDITORIAl CARTOONIST Victf1ria· Hargreaves SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDITOR Jennifer Pelose :COPY EDITOR AarOtn Braunstein Dave Meguerdichian PR010 EDITORS Scott ScuJiion FACULTY ADVISOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Haley Klein, Rick Lederer, Slioa11 Miller, Cory Sitka, Kate Stefanik .. STAFF: Matt Aronowitz, Anjali Balasingham, Kelen Barr, Hannah Blum, Tracy Boriskin, Jamie Chandler, Jay Connell:y,. Shana Dangelo, Gabriela Dory, David Dussault, Jason' Everett, Liarn Jmynt, David Kay, Adrian MacLean, Con or McKenzie, Pike Mody, N ic:k Papanickolas, Lisa Pertoso, Lee Polikoff, Aileen Quigley, Eugene Schultz, Neha Shah, Rebecca ThyressDn, David Weiner, Maura Wittbol«<. Campus Security Report UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, JANUARY 5., 1998 THROUGH SUNDAY, JANUARY ll, 1998 DATE/TIME LOCATION I: IS PM Reamer Center 4:04PM S&E-Third floor south TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 1998~ 6:35AM Near ArtsBuilding 7:13AM Library construction site 2:00PM Psi Upsilon 2:15PM Fox North 4:55PM Potter South 7:34PM Reamer Center WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 1998: 2: l 5 PM Alumni Gym 6:03PM Potter South THURSDAY,JANUARY8, 1998: 12;.59 AM West College 3:20PM Davidson 7:30PM Fox South FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 1998: I 0:56 PM Davidson South 11:15 PM Davidson Entry SATURDAY, JANUARY Hl, 1998: I :35 AM Raymond South !0:44AM AD Phi 10:28 PM Richmond SUNDAY, JANUARY 11, 1998: 12: 16 AM South Lane 1:14AM Fox/Davidson Lot 3:52AM Stoller Circle 4:15AM Lamont Lot 10:22 AM Chester Arthur Courtyard 12:00 PM Davidson North 6:03PM Reamer Center 10:45 PM Hickok House 11:05 PM Davidson North INCIDENT THEFT: Student reported text book stolen prior to Break. Book found in bookstore used book· section. Seller identified, conduct charges filed. PROPERtY MISSING: Student reports. backpack missing ... was left outside.of bookstore. A matching backpack was left b~hind .•. unable to trace ~wner. SAFETY HAZARD: Solvent odor pervading the area. Believe odor h1filtrating from lab. Odor dissipating. ANIMAL: Doberman gr()wled at staff member, Dog not on a leash. Dog and owner left campus. Incident was repeated on 117/98. Owner (visitor) was located and advised to keep dog on a leash. VANDALISM: Unauthorized person(s) entered )rd floor construction area and spray painted graffiti in area. VANDALISM: Student • s mom door kicked in.Nothing in room ltlissing or damaged. Believed to have occurred over brt::ak. VANDALISM: Lock on food storage door damaged. Apparent attempt at unauthorized entry. VANDALISM: Cable TV wire inside residence was cut. Belie-ved to have occurred over break. THEFT: Student's textb()ok and notebook stolen. Left unattended o11tside of UCDH. THEFT: Student's textbook stolen. Left unattended in unsecured area. THEFT: Microwave stolen. Believed taken between 12/8-12/18. SUBSTANCE ~BUSE: Student became ill · due· to alcohol consumption-Taken to Ellis· Hospital. Conduct Charges ·filed. Sti.BSTANOE ABUSE: &tttdent in possession of a narcotic drug. Conduct Charges filed. SAFETY HAZARD: Unauthorized cable TV wires .strung through windows and along outside of building. MINOR FIRE:. Student's notebook found smoldering in room. Calise undetermined. Alarm sounded to evacuatethebuilding. Life Safety Violation filed for failure to properly evacuate the building. HARASSMENT: Snowballs thrown at catp pus safety officer during fire a1ann evacuation. Verbal harassment followed. Conduct Charges · filed. · LIFE SAFETY VIOLATIONS: Fire alarm pull boxes activated. I :35 AM on first floor and l:S3 AM on second floor. Life Safety Violation Notices filed. THEFT: Student's jacket stolen during social event. Occurred between .midnight and 2:00AM. VANDALISM: Handset for building courtesy phone pulled off ofpho11e-unable to locate. HARASSMENT: Malicious false activation of emergency telephone. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM: Back window of visitor's car smashed. Occurred between I /9-1/1 I. HARASSMENT: Malicious false activation of Schenectady Fire Depat1ment fire alarm call box. SFD on campus investigating. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Snow piled atop student's parked car. No obvious damage. VANDALISM: Student's art project on display in courtyard area was damaged, parts missing. V ANDALlSM: Broken beer bottles strewn throughout lst floor nortli hallway. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Student received uninvited attention from casual acquaintance. SPD advised. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Unknown person pounding on entry doorto building, Officers checked area-suspect not located. PRO~ERTY MISSlNG: Desk attendant's chair taken. Ca:t p Un mem staff, tion · natOI all<n Mon edge coli e. COffil his i from direc ogy Ther desi1 while in ln1 rentl info co lie grarr Mor: prov M Uni( putti serv' cern ing 1 ing l plor sean disc' Uni< H Wet mal befi - - l l Tu1 e]VI At one:: staJ me Sta I lan

2 • January 15, 1998 • 'ID:l1e <!Iontnr.bieusi9i Tire Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Scltenectady 's Oldest Newspaper Jonathan Gasthalter and Frank Rossi EDJTOR)-1\'-C'HJEF Amy DiBattista EXECUTIVE EDITOR Christopher Leone MANAGING EDiTOR Peter Simon OPINIONS EDITOR Michael DeMicco Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITORS Christopher Leone SPORTS EDITOR Lori Green Kim Rohback ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT EDITORS Robert Hagopian COMPUTER MANAGER Michelle Tham FEATURES EDITOR Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Victoria Hargreaves SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDITOR Jennifer Pelose COPY EDITOR Aaron Braunstein Dave Meguerdichian PHOTO EDITORS Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVJ.~'OR PHOTOGRAPHERS· Haley Klein, Rick Lederer, Sloan Miller, Cory Silka, Kate Stefanik .. STAFF: Matt Aronowitz, Anjali Balasingham, Kelen Barr, Hannah Blum, Tracy Boris kin, Jamie Chandler, Jay Connelly, Shana Dangelo, Gabriela Dory, David Dussault, Jason Everett, Liam Joynt. David Kay, Adrian MacLean, Conor McKenzie, Pike Mody, Nick Papanickolas, Lisa Pertoso, Lee Polikoff, Aileen Quigley, Eugene Schultz, Neha Shah, Rebecca Thyresson. David Weiner, Maura Wittbold. _·.·_·.~ -Jn·siile ·This-Issue'·:.._··_. '' . . '' .. . . ~ . . ~ ' . . . . ' News 3 Campus News 4 Opinions and Letters 8 Features 12 ,• Scien£;e & Technology 14 Arts & Entertainment 16 - Dutchmen Sports 18 Campus News Campus Security Report UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, JANUARY S, 1998 THROUGH SUNDAY, JANUARY II, 19')8 DA TE/TIJ\IIE LOCATION MONDAY,JA.NUARY 5,1998: 10:10 AM RcamcrC.\:ntcr 1:15PM Reamer Center 4:04PM S&E-Third floor south TUESDAY, .JANUARY 6, 1998: 6:35AM Ncar Arts Building 7:13AM Library construction site 2:00PM Psi Upsi I on 2:15PM Fox North 4:55PM Potter South 7:34PM Reamer Center WEDNESilA'~·, JANUARY 7, 1998: 2: 15 PM /\I umni <iym 6:03PM Potter South THURSDA\r', JANUARY 8, 1998: 12:59 AM West College 3:20PM Davidson 7:30 Pl\.1 Fox South FRIDAY, .J~NUARY 9, 1998: I 0:56PM Davidson South 11:15 PM Dm idsnn Entry SATURD~.Y.JANUARY 10,1998: I :35 AM Raymond South 10:44 AM J\LJ Phi 10:28 PM Richnwnd SUNDA\', JANUARY II, 1998: !2:16AM Southi.anc 1:14AM Fox/Davidson Lot 3:52AM Stoller Circle 4:15AM Lamont Lot 10:22 AM Chester Arthur Courtyard 12:00 PM Davidson North 6:03PM Reamer Center 10:45 PM Hickok House II :05 PM Davidson North INCIDENT THEFT: Studer;~treported textbeok stolen prior to Break. Book found in bookstore used book section. Seller identi fled, conduct charges filed. PROPERTY MISSlNG: Student reports backpack missiAg ... was left outside of bookstore. A tnatching backpack was left behind ... unable to trace owner. SAFETY HAZARD: Solvent odor pervading tlle area. Believe odor infiltrating from lab. Odor dissipating. ANIMAL: Doberman growled at staff member. Dog not on a leash. Dog and owner left campus. Incident was repeated on 1/7/98. Owner (visitor) was located and advised to keep dog on a leash. VANDALISM: Una~tthorized person(s) entered 3rd floor construction area and spray painted graffiti in area. VANDALISM: Student's room door kicked in.Nothing in room missing or damaged. Believed to have occurred over break. VANDALISM: Lock on food storage door damaged. Apparent attempt at unauthorized entry. VANDALISM: Cable TV wire inside residence was cut. Believed to have occurred over break. THEFT: Student's textbook and notebook stolen. Left unattended outside of UCDH. THEFT: Student's textbook stolen. Left unattended in unsecured area. THEFT: Microwave stolen. Believed taken between 12/8-1 2/18. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student became ill dl.le to alcohol consumption. Taken to Ellis llospital. Conduct Charges filed. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student in possession of a narcotic drug. Conduct Charges filed. SAFETY HAZARD: Unauthorized cable TV wires strung through windows and along Olttside of building. I\11NOR FIRE: Student's notebook found smoldering in room. Cause undetermined. Alarm sounded to evacuate the building. Life Safety Violation filed for failure to properly evacuate the building. IIARASSMENT: Snowballs thrown at cam pus safety officer during fire alarm evacuation. Verbal harassment followed. Conduct Charges filed. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATIONS: Fire alarm pul I boxes activated. I: 3 5 AM on first floor and I :53 AM on second floor. Life Safety Violation Notices filed. THEFT: Student's jacket stolen during social event. Occurred between midnight and 2:00AM. VANDALISM: Handset for building courtesy phone pulled off of phone-unable tG locate. HARASSMENT: Malicious false activation of emergency telephone. Conduct Charges filed. VANDALISM: Back window of visitor's car smashed. Occurred between 119-1/11. HARASSMENT: Malicious false activation of Schenectady Fire Department fire alarm call box. SFD on campus investigating. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Snow piled atop student's parked car. No obvious damage. VANDALISM: Student's art project on display in courtyard area was damaged, parts missing. VANDALISM: Broken beer bottles strewn tilmughout I st floor north hallway. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Student received uninvited attention from casual acquaintance. SPD advised. SUSPICIOUS PERSON: Unknown person pcunding on entry door to building. Officers checked area-suspect not located. PROPERTY MISSING: Desk attendant's chair taken. ' I I I I I l r I t Ca F u men stafl tion nato allo Mor edgt colic COJ!l his fron dire ogy The desi whi in Ir rent i FI fc coli grar Mo1 pro• rv Uni putt sen cerr ing ing plo seat disc Uni ~ We mal bef - - l Tu eh At on :.ta 111( St; !at

. ·' PR Hires New Webmaster by Lisa Pertoso Staff Writer Union College welcomes a new member to its public relations staff, Saul Morse. The new posi- tion of Union's web site coordi- Many questions have b~en raised concemiag the issue of the new policy and Morse's position as an attempt t() monitor the information ' students put on their pages. Morse c<>mments that the policy will ad~ dress gen~ral usage guidelines new web policy will have essen- tially no affect on the content of web pages put up by students. Stu- dents have always been expected · to uphold all applicable laws and regulations, and there is no planned change to this policy.\ natorwascreatedthisterm r-----.----,.....,.---------.... Morse explains that allowing flexibility for guidelines are neces- Morse to bring his knowl- \The new web policy will sary in order to cover edge and •creativity to the ·1 11· b\l't\ H 1 college'swebpage. Morse have essentially DO affect . ;:i~t:ao~: ~~:t ·~~~~ comes to Union bringing OD the ~On tent Of Web still encourages any his immense knowledge students or faculty to from his .previous job as p. ages put up· by students.\ contribute and express directorofmarkettechnol- their ideas by making ogy for a media firm. _Robert Hagopian . their own page. There,heprogrammedand Yet, since Union's designed web strategies, President ,Of Virtual U web site is commonly while also teaching courses browsed by perspective in lnternetmarketing. Cur- students, and alumni it rently, Union'swebpage provides which are not intended to be op- reflects the college's reputation, information concern i:ng the pressive. 811ch requirements in- any violations of the web policy college's admissions policy, pro- elude ensuring that students and must be corrected to avoid law- grams, clubs, and faculty which faculty have complied with federal suits. Morse hopes to expand and irn- copyright regulations, and all In the coming months Union can prove. student's p~rsonal web pages to expect not only a new web policy, · Morse's responsibilities as contain a <lisclaimer. This dis- but a better, expanded, more so- Union's web coordinator include claimer rnust state that the views phisticated, and more widely· putting together Union's main web expresse(). ()n the web page are browsed web page with the addi- server, integrating updates con- solely th()se of the page authors tion of Morse's position as web ceming campus life, and publiciz\' and not Union College. coordinator. ing tl,le campus in general. Dur- Virtual U, the club which brings Morse emphasized the irnpor- ing Morse's daily routine, he ex- the latest technologies to Union, is tance of improving and advancing plores the Internet through re- the first,plilce where students were Union's web site by saying, \It is searching other colleges web sites able to create .their personal web a useful communication tool for discovering new ways to better pages. R<>b Hagopian, the presi- perspectives, students, and alumni. Union's. dent of tile Virtual U club; assures Also, having a strong web site He joins the recently formed students tllat the new policy will compliments the college's bro- Web Board which is refining a for- not affect the freedom to express .chures by allowing the aspect of mal web policy for the college to their ideas and views through a interactive information that cannot be finalized within the next montlt. web \The be found in a ~~···•~\ MONJ>A Y NIGHT lS SPORTS NIGHT AT THE ~THSKI~LI ,..~ 9P.M.-? *'BK VERAGE SPECIAL\'* ..... ...& .... Campus News THE SOCIETY, THURSTON HOUSE, LUDLOW, A \l'D THETA DELTA CHI are midergoing evaluation by tb.e Student Affairs Coun- cil for renewal of their housing privileges. Any member ofthe College community who would like to submit comments about either house is encouraged to do so. The SAC is primarily concerned with the two questions: Does this grollp use their house to improve the cultural, intellectual and social life of campus?; and Is the collective lifestyle of the house cc aducive to aca- demic achievement? The SAC asks that comments are written and that the author attach his/her name. Please send comments to SAC c/o Pro- fessor Jim Adrian, Chair Chemistry Dept. or SAC c/o Dean of Students · Office. An Ad Hoc Committee has been formed to consider making a recom- mendation to the Board of Trustees to change the collge motto frorn \Sous les lois de Minerve nous devenons tous freres\ to \Sous les lois de Minerve nous devenons tous unis\ to represent the college's coedu- cational character. Please submit any input to Joe Zolner '76 Ad Hoc Committee Chair, Union College, Lamont House Grilduate Center, Schenectady, NY 12308 (Phone: 518-388:.6447, Fax: 518-388-668(), E-mail: zolnerj@union.edu) no later than February 1, 1998. A committe has been formed to review the professional performance of Gail Golderman, Electronic Media Librarian in Schaffer Librarian. Any members of the college community who wish to provide written comment about Gail Golderrnan's professional performance contact a memberofthe committe, care ofScltaefer library, by January 30. The Robert A von Smith, Class of 1952 fellowship is awarded to stu- dents in the sciences or engineering programs who participate in a sum- mer research program in bio-medical engineering under the guidance of Union College faculty. For application information, please contact Professor J. Richard Shanebrook in the Department of Mechanical En- gineering. The deadline for. proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories -- student-initiated research projects and \educational innovative projects\ is February 19, 1998 Proposals for student initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's Office (S 100, S & E Building). Guidelines are available in the Dean's Office. The Faculty Development Committee is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activites. Applications are availabl.e in Dean Sorum's Office. The deadline for submission of proposals is February 19, 1998. Sorority Rush Schedule January 16th: First night of Rush 6-8:45pm (4 houses/30 min, slide shows, meet@ Alps) January 17th: Second night ofRush: 6-8:45pm (4 houses/30 min, tours, meet@ Alps) EVI£RY ·nn;.RSDA Y NIGtrr IS ••MUST SEE T.V. •• A'J:' THE RATHSKJn~l.l\R... lt\JH)tM 8P.M..-11ll'.M. COME AND WATCH YOVlt I<~AVOlUTE Tl-ll.lRSI>A Y NIGHT SHOWS- SMALI~CHICta:.N PARMI<::SAN SANnWICH $3.00 Sl¥1Al,I.. ORDli:R. OF CI'IEESF: STICKS $2.00 .... .... ~ January 23rd: Informal third night of Rush: 6-8:15pm (2 houses/lhr. skits, meet@ Alps) January 24th: Informal fourth night of Rush • .. ,.I>ON'~f' Io'ORG .. ~'F 'TlfAT Jo'RESIIMAN CAN NOW USE (1\'\''0 1\.U:AJ~ P'UN(':lll1:S .!\. WI<:EK AT THE .RATHSKELJ.AR (2 houses/lhr. skits, meet@ Alps) January 25th: Rushee invites begins at 4pm Humanities & Social Sciences (See Rho-Chi) --- .... -t January 28th: Fifth night of Rush 6-8:45pm (3 houses/45 min, Theme Night, meet@ Alps) January 29th: Rushee Invitations: Begins at 7:00pm ,..._..,.~:1 Humanities & Social Sciences (See Rho-Chi) January 30th: Preference Night: 6-8:45pm (2 Houses/75 min Meet@ Alps) Union Staff Holiday Luncheon a Record-Brealdng Success by Diana Mirabile & Dawn 'M. Parisi Contributing Writers Under a cover of darkness. on Tuesday evening December 9 1 h, elves descended upon Old ChapeL At noon the following day, sixty- one. members ofthe Union College staff rubbed their eyes in amaze- ment as they arrived at the anmral Staff Holiday Luncheon. Bedecked with balloons, gar- land; wreaths, twink:le lights, and festive colors, Union's Old Chapel greeted 011e and all as we gathered for season.+<'\+'\' . ties. With gifts in hand for resi dents of Glen dale Home, a record~breaking number retirees ilnd staff members enjoyed ()Onversation over lunch, a raffle of donated handma.de crafts and an or- nament exchange. Raffle proceeds from this year vvere donated to assist a stu- dent defray expenses while attend- ing Union. Proceeds from last year'sraffle were donated to Minh nam. '96 for his efforts to pe- the release of his father Volunteer committee mem- bers Joanne Christensen, Psy- chology; Carmela Hartman, Finance Office; Diana Mirabile, Economics, Susan a:>I.<ClL.IU. Copy Center; Judi Ferrandino and Ronnie Breslin, Financial Aid; Sylvia Nozny, Central Scheduling; Bonnie Nou Patrick, Educational Studies; Nancy Cooper, Terrns Abroad Office; Marie GuariniellC>, Chemistry; Judi Gordon, Career Development and Dawn Parisi, Gift Planning invite you to join the fun next year as a planning com- mittee member and certainly by at- tending the luncheon. If you would like to be a part of this exciting annual event, please contact any of the 1997 commit- tee members who are listed in this article.

News PR Hires New Webmaster by Lisa Pertoso Staff Writer Union College welcomes a new member to its public relations staff, Saul Morse. The new posi- tion of Union's web site coordi- Many questions have been raised concerning the issue of the new policy and Morse's position as an attempt to monitor the information students put on their pages. Morse comments that the polic~ wil'l ad- dress general usage guidelines new web policy will have essen- tially no affect on the content of web pages put l'lp by students. Stu- dents have always been expected to uphold all applicable laws and regulations, and there is no planned change to this policy.\ natorwas created this term r--------------------.... Morse explains that allowing flexibility for guidelines are neces- Morse to bring his know!- \T'he new web policy will sary in order to cover edge and creativity to the legal liabilities. He also college'swebpage. Morse have essentially llO affect points out that Union comes to Union bringing OD the COD tent Of web still encomages any his immense k11owledge students or faculty to from his previ<JUS job as pages put up· by· students.\ contribute at:~d express director ofmarkettecilnol- their ideas by making ogy for a media firm. _Robert Hagopian their own page. There,heprogrammedand Yet, since Union's designed web strategies, President of Virtual U web site is commonly while also teaching courses browsed by perspective in Internet marketing. Cur- students, and alumni it rently, Union's web page provides which are not intended to be op- renects the college's reputation, information concerning the pressive. Such requirements in- any violations of the web policy college's admissions policy, pro- elude ensuring that students and must be corrected to avoid law- grams, clubs, and faculty which faculty have complied \Nilh federal suits. Morse hopes t() expand and irn- copyright regulations, and all In the coming months Union can prove. student's personal web pages to expect not only a new web policy, Morse's responsibilities a:s contain a disclaimer. This dis- but a better, expanded, more so- Union's web c<Jordinator include claimer must state that tile views ph isticated, and more widely putting together Union's main wei:J expressed on the web page are browsed web page with the addi- server, integrating updates con- solely those of the page authors tion of Morse's position as web cerning campus life, and publiciz:- and not Union College. c<Jordinator. ing the campus in general. Our- Virtual U, the club wil ich brings Morse emphasized the impor- ing Morse's daily routine, he ex.- the latesttechno Iogies t() Union, is tance of improving and advancing pi ores the Internet through re · the first place where students were Union's web site by saying, \It is searching other colleges web sites able to create their personal web a useful communication tool for discovering new ways to bette-r pages. Rob Hagopian, the presi- perspectives, students, and ah1mni. Union's. dent of the Virtual U club, assures Also, having a strong web site He joins the recently formed students that the new p()licy will c<Jmpliments the college's bra- Web Board which is refining a for- not affect the freedom to express chures by allowing the aspect of mal web policy for the college t() their ideas and views through a interactive information that cannot be finalized within the next month. web page. Hagopian says, \The be found in a printed piece.\ l\llONDAY NIGHT IS SPORTS NJG.IIT AT THE RATHSKI~Lf .-\\.R '9P.M.--? \''\'C'IJICKEN WINGS SZ.9?\ DOZJ.f,N* * *BEVERAGE SPE<.'JALS\ ~t:VERY Tlll;&<:;DAY NIG&-rr IS ''MUST SEE T.V . ., AT TUg RATIISKI·: LLi\.R.. FJ~OM SP. M..--1 1 1~. M. COMJ~ AND WA'I.CII 'k'Ol..'l{. I<~AVORITE THt IRSOAV NI<G liT SUOWS. SMALL< :HICKEN PARMESAN SANDWI<cH $3.00 SJ\...IALL ORDI•:R OF C:HERSl<: STICKS 5:2.00 A\I>ON\'T J.\ORGI<~TTliAT Jo\RESHMAN C:AN NOW USI<: (1\\-'0 :vn:_.\.]; P'l~NCIU:S A WI':I~J-.: ,\.TTI-11<: RATI-JSKRLI..AR Campus News THE SOCIET\', THURSTON HOUSE, LUDLOW, P \l\D THETA DELTA CHI are undergoing evaluation by the Student Affairs Coun- cil for renewal of their housing privileges. Any member of the College community who would like to submit comments about either house is encouraged to do so. The SAC is primarily concerned with the two questions: Does this group use their house to improve the cultural, intellectual and social life of campus?; and Is the collective lifestyle of the house cc .1ducive to aca- demic achievement? The SAC asks that comments are written and that the author attach his/her name. Please send comments to SAC c/o Pro- fessor Jim Adrian, Chair Chemistry Dept. or SAC c/o Dean of Students Office. AA Ad Hoc Committee has beeA formed to consider making a recom- mendation to the Board of Trustees to change the collge motto from \Sous les lois de Minerve Aous devenons tous freres\ to \Sous les lois de Minerve nous devenons tous unis\ to represent the college's coedu- cational character. Please submit any input to Joe Zolner '76 Ad Hoc Committee Chair, Union College, Lamont House Graduate Center, Schenectady, NY 12308 (Phone: 518-388-6447, Fax: 518-388-6686, E-mail: zolnerj@union.edu) no later than Febntary 1, 1998. A committe has. been formed to review the professional performance of Gail Golderma11, Electronic Media Librarian in Schaffer Librarian. Any members of the college community who wish to provide written comment about Gail Golderman's professional performance contact a member of the committe, care of Schaefer library, by January 30. The Robert Avon Smith, Class of 1952 fellowship is awarded to stu- dents in the sciences or engineering programs who participate in a sum- mer research program in bio-medical engineering under the guidance of Union College faculty. For application information, please contact Professor J. Ricllard Shanebrook in the Department of Mechanical En· gineering. The deadline f()r proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories -- student-initiated research projects and \educational innovative projects\ is February 19, 1998 Proposals for student initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals sllould be submitted to the Dean's Office (S l 00, S & E Building). Guidelines are available in the Dean's Office. The Faculty Development Committee is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activites. Applications are available in Dean Sorum's Office. The deadline for submission of proposals is February 19, l9<J8. Sorority Rush Schedule January 16th: First night of Rush 6-8:45pm (4 houses/30 min, slide shows, meet@ Alps) January 17th: Second night of Rush: 6-8:45pm (4 houses/30 min, tours, meet@ Alps) January 23rd: Informal third night of Rush: 6-8: l5pm (2 houses/ I hr. skits, meet@ Alps) January 24th~ Informal fourth night of Rush (2 houses/ I hr. skits, meet@ Alps} January 25th: Rushee invites begins at 4pm Humanities & Social Sciences (See Rho-Chi) January 28th: Fifth night of Rush 6-8:45pm (3 houses/45 min, Theme Night, meet@ Alps) January 29th: Rushee Invitations: Begins at 7:00pm Humanities & Social Sciences (See Rho-Chi) January 30th: Preference Night: 6-8:45pm (2 Houses/75 min Meet@ Alps) ~.....,_.....,_...,_....,..._, at . . . ·.. .. . . . .;:t)f.1 fice .,, · ypu '·llave:·~ny;gu~$tiQns-'c~ll '.···. Jon at x7122 or Frank·t=.~tx5755 Union Staff Holiday Luncheon a Record-Breaking Success by Diana Mirabile & Dawn M. Parisi Contrib.l1ling Writers Under a cover of darkness on Tuesday evening December 9''\ elves descended upon 0 ld Chapel. At noon the following day, sixty- one members of the Union College staff rubbed tlleir eyes in amaz:e- ment as they arrived at the annual Staff Holiday Luncheon. Bedecked with balloons, gar- land, wreaths. twinkle lights, a11d festive colors, Union's Old Chapel greeted one and all as we gathered for season festivi- ties. With gifts in hand fGrresi- dents of Glendale l-l0me, a record-breaking number o retirees and staff m ern hers enjoyed conversation over lunch, a raffle of donated handmade crafts and an or- nament exchange. Raffle proceeds frorn this year were donated to assist a stu- dent defray expenses while attend- ing Union. Proceeds from last year's raffle were donated to Minh Phan '96 for his effotts tope- tition the release of his father from imprisonment in Viet- nam. Volunteer committee mem- bers Joanne Christensen, Psy- chology; Carmela Harttnan, Finance Office; Diana Mirabile, Economics, Susan Pascazio, Copy Center; Judi Ferrandino and Ronnie Breslin, Financial Aid; Sylvia Nozny, Central Scheduling; Bonnie Nou Patrick, Educational Studies; Nancy Cooper, Terms Abroad Office; Marie Guariniello, Chemistry; Judi Gordon, Career Development and Dawn Parisi, Gift Planning invite you to join the fun next year as a planning com- mittee member and certainly by at- tending the lunch~on. If you would I ike to be a part of this exciting annual event. please contact any of the JC)C)7 commit- tee members who are listed in this article.

Marriott Merges Union Students Steamed by Neha Shah Staff Writer The North American operations of Marriott Management Services, which has provided Union College's food services for the past two and a half years, is in the pro- cess of merging with the North American operations of Sodexho AHiance. Once the merger is com- plete, the newly formed Sodexho Marriott Services will be the larg- est contract services organization in North America with Marriott Management Services owning 51% of the stock and Sodexho owning 49% of the stock. The MmTiot Company is pres- ently comprised of three branches that include Marriott International; the Parent Company involved with the Marriott hotels, Residence and Fairfield Inns, and Marriott Man- agement Services. Marriott Man- agement Services handles service contracts such as corporate food services to businesses and govern- ment agencies, education food ser- vices to colleges and universities, food and other services to health care facilities, food services to school districts, and laundry ser- vices to clients in hotels, busi- nesses, education, and health care. Sodexho is a service oriented, con- sulting and contracting company based in France. According to Stephen Pearse, ' Director of Dining Services, how- · being boiled off at 3 8,000 pounds art computer controlled systems, ever, this mergerwill not affect the by Stephanie Slobotkin of steam per hour.\ Though the instead of the outdated manual current state of food services at News Editor noise created some tension on methods. The old boilers, dating Union College. Sodexho is con- campus and students voiced some back to ·1966, are being rebuilt by cerned with maintaining the cur- \The campus should be aware concern, the process was necessary Trojan Energy Systems and will rent relationships and operations · that between the hours of9 PM and and insures heating for 40% ofthe incJude an automated system to Marriott Management Services 10 PM there will be a big plume campus. run them. They are presently set have with their cufl'ent contracts. of steam coming from the boiler \I thought the billowing cloud up fer the running of natural gas, Since there are only three Marriott ·. house making a very loud noise,'' was some form of pollutant,'' said but Puliafico said that technicians employees at Union Co liege and campus safety said overvoice mail junior Krissy Badman. \I just as- must return to set up for fuel oiL 99% of Union College dining ser- . on Wednesday, January 6. This smnedSchenectady'sgeneral win- Included in this renovation of.re- vice employees are employed by warning, however, was announced ter overcast was being caused by painting and refurbishing the boil- the college, the merger is unlikely after the first boom was heard on the big cloud,\ said sophomore ets and burner, they further plan to have an impact .in th,is area. Monday, preparing the campus for Robyn Polansky, \It was bi:g to redo the chiller this summer. Rather, the merger will allow both another cloud of steam and a bang enough to give off that impression, Excluding the chiller, the total cost companies to enhance their re- on Friday. The burst of steam even if it was harmless.\ There- of the project was estimated at sources in areas such as market- coming from the up r----------------------------....,·. $350,000, which in- ing, human resources, training ca- · campus Boiler House b . ·eluded all control sys- pabilities, and food distribution, to may have appeared to \It was clean water · · e1ng tems as welt name a few. · · create a mushroom b ··•· d ff f 38 000 d f Besides the· main The impending merger will be bomb, an additive to • .. Ol .e 0 .. a .·• ; • , .. pOUil . S 0 Boiler House, there is beneficial for both companies as the Schenectady smog steam per hour.\ · also steam that is seen Sodexho Alliance is interested in or an intentional gray filtering through the gaining a foothold in the North cloud welcoming stu- - Fred Puliajico manholes in the ground American contracts area while· dents back to inevitable around Union's cam- Marriott Management Services is. indementweathercon- L-----------...---.---------....J pus. These clouds that looking to expa11d into the inter- .. ditions. However it was nearly a leases of large amounts of steam seem to obstructthe walkway from national contract arena. Charles D. harmless haze of steam. have ceased and the new burner the Library to the College Center, 0' Dell of Marriott Management · \'I thought the noise was obnox- Services will be the president and ious and could hear it from half chief executive officer and . way down the campus. 'It didn't Michael Lande.! of Sodexho will . seem normal or healthy,\ said se~ be the executive vice presideFJt of · nior Carolyn Lavine priortolearn- Sodexho Marriott Services. The ing oftne harmless effects. The merger became apossibility in No- seemingly distracting noise and vi- vember 1997, and pending ap- sualaccornpanimentwastheresult proval by the IRS and sharehold- · of the testing of a newly ·installed ers, the merger could become com- burner ill the Boiler House. Ac- plete by February 28 111 1998. cording to Fred Puliafico, Me- will resume to regular heating con- are also harmless precipitation be- ditions. ing released into the air. Accord- The one large boiler which spe- ing to Pulia:fico, the underground cifically heats a major portion of piping is as old as 30 years i11 some the academic bui !dings, Including places and sometimes the installa- the Library, Science and Engineer- tion around those pipes begins to ing, and Memorial Chapel could' break down. \This causes the not have used the tested steam to ground water to get into the pipes disperse in those various buildings and flashes to steam,\ Puliafico clue to the massive amount of said, \It [the steam] travels to the steam released for the .test. How- nearest manhole.\ Schedule Ch~riges Cont'd From Page 1 chanical and Utilities Systems Manager the Boiler House had re- cently refurbished its largest of two ever, on a daily basis the boilers Campus Operations usually has heat the aforementioned buildings; people trying to pump them out but and do not give off any loud noises with all the thawing and ram its .. an or unnecessary steam. impossible task,\ Puliafico said. more than normal to schedule classes. The most noticeable changes which surfaced from the schedule changes concerned lunch. The question before the break was not ifthe changes would affect lunch lines, but rather, by how much? Initial totals provided by Dining Services show some interesting results. Compared to fall term's first- week statistics, this term's first week was much busier in the din- ing halls during the 12:00 to 12:59 time frame on Monday and Wednesday. Specifically, Upperclass Dining Hall rose by 34 swipes (328 to 362) during the noon hour, and West jumped by a large 120 swipes (246 to 366). Wednesday saw an evening-out of the jumps as Upperclassjumped by 52 swipes during noon (317 to 369) and West jumped by 57 two halls on Wednesday, it might be easy to conclude that the stu- dent body is not eating lunch. However, further numbers do not support this idea. In fact, Dutch Hollow and the Rathskellar have also jumped in popularity. Dutch Hollow jumped by 51 swipes on Wednesday (248 to 299), and the Rathskellar consistently showed gains throughout the week. The Rathskellarwill continue to show expansion in swipes as freshmen now are able to use meal swipes thanks to the efforts of Freshmen Class Vice President Erin Aloan, according to Steve Pearse, head of Union's Dining Services. With such large jumps in the number of swipes, long lines have followed, creati11g upset among the student body. Junior Jenn Pelose summarized several stu- dents' reactions when she stated, \Long lines and chaos is what you I-bw lln:h Wis. Affected In All DningAreas ... 11..fbxl aJ4 N:m1 231 1-2 100 11-tml 1ffi N:m1 ~ 1-2 ~ swipes (245 to 302). Tuesday's statistics were basically unchanged for the dining halls, except for a large drop at West between 11:00 and 11:59(176to 121). The Tues- day stability reflects the lack of major Tuesday-Thursday schedule changes. With the overall drop in the number of students dining in those get when 2,000 people eat at the same time.\ Pearse has already begun some changes in policies to meet the excess dining hall demand. \We already experienced a similar type of situation at approximately 12:25 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Was it a little less dra• matic? Yes, but we always had · boirers and n!2eded a new burner. .In order to properly test the bumer'sfunction~, large amounts of steam needed to be released at different intervals. \Environmentally unaware of usual, visual toxins, I could only think that the steam rising was in some way noxious,\ said junior Barry Eisenberg. Once the new burner was in- stalled, the process of calibrating the instrumentation called for fir- ing the burner at various rates, test- ing it at d.ifferent power levels. The vent on the roof served as the place for the discharge of the · steam, and Puliafico said, \It was not a dangerous or continuous burst of neat. It was clean water that rush. Now we have it at 12: I 0. As people adjust to the schedule, it will be okay. The trend has al- Now that the new burner l;tas The steam is merely innocuous· been installed it allows for a bet- ground water and the campus ter rate cost for gas and can be should be aware that more steam supplemented to fuel oil in case of tenqs to get released under the an emergency. Puliafico said he common Upstate winter inclement was able to negotiate a good cost weather conditions. \I wouldn't from Enserch, the main company walk through the steam and from whom they purchase the gas. walked through social sciences,\ He also emphasized that if there said junior RaquelMillman, \I was was ever to be a future energy cri- scared of the possibility of it be- sis, the school can easily convert ing harmful.\ to fuel oil. They normally bum It is now confirmed that gas, but duel fue 1 in combination Schenectady smog is not caused by with new technology can safe- campus operations or the Boiler guard the school from any heating House. Gray clouds emitted f~om or water problems. that building and the manholes are Along with the renovation ofthe just innocuous billows of steam, boiler, the Boiler House is in the clean enough to breathe in, walk process incorporating state of the through, and even stop for a facial. would go in that direction, we would try to accommodate stu.., dents in our own facilities.\ move. \Despite student support to the contrary, the lunch schedule changed and it has adversely af- ready started as people realizer----....._ _ __... ________ ~--\'\\'\:.......,--:-'-::::---:---, what'sgoingon. Wehavetrieda ~··nrQass ~.111nrr \''~hr; Aff~~ policy putting 'all hands on r:&Jvv · I....J\d.LUUlll..lf:, VYcXS ·· . u;u;u. • • • deck.\' Other changes have included the . renovati()n of Dutch Hollow (with · new menu items, including om- elets to alleviate Thursday Upperclass rushes). Pearse added, \We went to two cashier stands [at Dutch] in order to cash people out one-thi~d more rapidly.\ Surreunding business owners are wiHi11g to help alleviate the 'Sl 43 44 .23 31 '·; .. ':8.'' aJ. ,'.,··::a·.':·:. 27(-4) . ·.·16{-ffi) 3}(+13) 4cJ('M) dining hall traffic. Paul Lichor:at, '---------------------------' proptietoi· ofGeppettos Restaurant on Nott Street, stated, \Geppettos Restaura11t would be more than happy to accommodate Union stu- dents on a Validine system. I hope that Dini11g Services will turn to us if they need help.\ Pearse has not completely dis- missed such ideas, but he doubts they will occur. \Before the school Students who want to change the system back to the former style have little time to react. Preregis~ trations questi()nnaires will be sent . outaround follrth week ofthe tenn in ()J'der to prepare for the seventh week procedures. Junior Josh Chaplin; one of the main petition circulators last term, still feels that the administration made a wrong fected things. I think less people are eating, not more.\ The AAC refused to examine the issue. at last week's meeting, according to Student Forum sources. While some things are filtering out, the administration and students must determine whether the benefits of the system outweigh the inconveniences. WI Unio the f 1971 miJ.Ii, biom the SJ keep ruses Bic hund ceive gove ever: Nott ary 1. kets uted the F techr tive, • large w: have frorr Walt inve! thou: rally Accc do in: safe. rest< beca reser eros! w T' Sien have . liste1 Coli, cati< min! this· Aft~ deer ule i dele pres mor, ontl ingt pen Wei wv radi, Fi WR wv Tha has a Ire: diffi add: itha the gior and The ing! whi poli Act fom cial cai.l W'v tion boa 'he I She

Marriott Merges by Neha Shah Stoff Writer The North American operations of Marriott Management Services, which has provided Union College's food services for the past two and a half years, is in the pro- cess of merging with the North American operations of Sodexho Alliance. Once the merger is com- plete. the newly formed Sodexho Marriott Services will be the larg- est contract services organization in North America with Marriott Management Services owning 51% of the stock and Sodexho owning 49% of the stock. The Marriot Company is pres- ently comprised of three branches that include Marriott International; the Parent Company involved with the Marriott hotels, Residence and Fairfield Inns, and Marriott Man- agement Services. Marriott Man- agement Services handles service contracts such as corporate food services to businesses and govern- ment agencies, education food ser- vices to colleges and universities, food and other services to health care facilities, food services to school districts. and laundry ser- vices to clients in hotels, busi- nesses, education, and health care. Sodexho is a service oriented. con- sulting and contracting company based in France. According to Stephen Pearse, Director ofDining Services, how- ever, this merger will not affect the current state of food services at Union College. Sodexho is con- cerned with maintaining the cur- rent relationships and operations Marriott Management Services have with their current contracts. Since there are only three Marriott employees at Union College and 99% ofUnion College dining ser- vice employees are employed by the c<Jllege. the merger is unlikely to have an impact in this area. Rather. the merger will allow both companies to enhance their re- sources in areas such as market- ing, hll!nan resources, training ca- pabilities, and food distribution, to name a few. The impending merger will be beneficial for both companies as Sodexllo Alliance is interested in gaining a foothold in the North American contracts area while Marriott Management Services is looki n,g to expand into the inter- national contract arena. Charles D. O'Dell of Marriott Management Service~ will be the president and chief executive officer and Michael Lande! of Sodexho will be the e:xecutive vice president of Sodexllo Marriott Services. The mergerl-,ccame a possibility in No- vember I 997, and pending ap- proval by the IRS and sharehold- ers. the merger could become com- plete l>y February 28' 11 1998. Schedule Changes Conf'd From Page 1 more than normal to schedule classes. The most noticeable changes which surfaced from the schedule changes concerned lunch. The question before the break was not if the changes would affect lunch lines, but rather, by how much? Initial totals provided by Dining Services show some interesting results. Compared to fall term's first- week statistics, this term's first week was much busier in the din- inghallsduringthe 12:00to 12:.59 time frame on Monday and Wednesday. Specifica 11 y, Upperclass Dining Hall rose by 34 swipes (328 to 362) during the noon hour, and West jumped by a large 120 swipes (246 to 366). Wednesday saw an evening-out of the jumps as Upperclass jumped by 52 swipes during noon (317 to 369) and West jumped by 57 two ila lis on Wednesday, it might be easy to conclude that the stu- dent l>ody is not eating lunch. However, further numbers do not support this idea. In fact, Dutch Hollmv and the Rathskellar have also j urn ped in popularity. Dutch Hollow• jumped by 51 swipes on Wednesday (248 to 299), and the Rathsk..ellar consistently showed gains, through out the week. The Rathsk.ellar will continue to show expans.ion in swipes as freshmen now <Ire able to use meal swipes thanks to the efforts of Freshmen Class, Vice President Erin Aloan. according to Steve Pearse, head of Union's Dining Services. Witl1 such large jumps in the numberofswipes,long lines have follo\.\'ed, creating upset among the s1lldent body. Junior Jcnn Pelos.e summarized several stu- dents' reactions when she stated, \Long lines and chaos is what you I-bw Luoch \VcJs Affected In All Ilning Areffi ... 11.fu::n ttm-1 1-2 11..fml N:m-1 1-2 11-M:m N:Jon.1 1-2 191 717 213 ;rn Z31 189 185 292 2ff1 134(-67) :m(+LE) 100 -15) 12 4/ ?A swipes (245 to 302). Tuesday's statistics were basically unchanged for the dining halls, except for a large drop at West between II :00 and 11 :59 ( 176 to 121 ). The Tues- day stability reflects the lack of major Tuesday-Thursday schedule changes. With the overall drop in the number of students dining in those ~ 1ST 31T 1$ 151 (-87) 332(+34} ro get w he11 2,000 people eat at the same tim e.\ Pearse has already begun some changes in policies to meet the excess dining hall demand. \We already experienced a similar type of situation at approximately 12:25 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Was it a little les~ dra- matic'? Yes, but we always had Cam usNews Union Students Steamed by Stephanie Slobotkin News Editor ·being boiled off at 38,000 pounds art computer controlled systems, of steam per hour.\ Thm1gh the instead o.f the outdated manl'lal noise created some tension on methods. The old boilers, dating campus and students voiced some back to 1966, are being rebuilt by \The camp tis should be aware concern, the process was necessary Trojan Energy Systems and wiU tl<tat betwee11 the hours of9 PM and and insures heating for 40% of the indl!lde an automated system to 10 PM there will be a big plume campus. mn them. They are presently set of steam C()m ing from the boiler \I thought the billowing cloud up for the running of natural gas, house making a very loud noise,\ was some form ofpoHutant,\ said but Puliafico said that technicians campus safety said over voice maii junior Krissy Badman. \I just as- must return to set up for fuel oil. on Wednesday, January 6. This sumed Schenectady's general win- Included in this renovation ofre- warning, ho-wever, was annoumced ter overcast was being caused by painting and refurbishing the boil- after the first boom was heard on the big cloud,\ said sophomore ers and burner, they further plam Monday,preparingthecampus for Robyn Polansky, \It was big to redo the chiller this summer. another ci<Jud of steam and a bang enough to give off that impression, Excluding the chiller, the total cost on Friday. The burst of steam even if it was harmless.\ There- of the project was estimated at coming from the up.-----------------------. $350,000, which in- campus Bo ilcr House l b . eluded all control sys- may have appeared to \It was c ean water . e1ng tems as well. create a mushroom b •1 d ff t 38 000 d f Besides the main bomb, an additive to . Ol e O· a ., . . pOUD S O Boiler House, there is the Schenectady smog steam per hour.\ also steam that is seen or an intentional gray filtering through the cloud welcoming stu- - Fred Puliajico manholes in the ground dents back. to inevitable around Union's cam- inclement weather con· pus. These clouds that ditions. However it was 11early a harmless haze of steam. \I thought the noise was obiwx- ious and could hear it from half way down the campus. It didn't seem normal or healthy,\ said se- nior Carol)n l .a vine prior to learn· ing of the llannless effects. The seemingly distracting noise and vi- sual accompaniment was the result of the testing of a newly installed burner in tile Boiler House. Ac· cording to Fred Pul iafico, Me- chanical and Utilities Systems Manager the Boiler House had re· cently refurbished its largest of two boilers and needed a new burner. In order to properly test the burner's fuJtctions, large amounts of steam needed to be released at different intervals. \Environmentally unaware of usual, visual toxins, I could only think that tile steam rising was in some way noxious,\ said junior Barry Eisenberg. Once the new burner was in- stalled, the process of calibrating the instrumentation called for fir- ing the burner at various rates, test- ing it at different power levels. The vent <Jn the roof served as the place for the discharge of the steam, and Puliafico said, \It was not a dangerous or continuous burst of heat. It was clean water that rush. Now we have it at I 2: l(). As people adjust to the schedule, it will be okay. The trend has al- leases of large amounts of steam have ceased and the new burner will resume to regular heating con- ditions. The one large boiler which spe- cifically heats a major portion of the academic buildings, including the Library, Science and Engineer- ing, and Memorial Chapel could not have used the tested steam to disperse in those various buildings due to the massive amount of steam released for the test. How- ever, on a daily basis the boilers heat the aforementioned buildings, and do not give off any loud noises or unnecessary steam. Now that the new burner has been installed it allows for a bet- ter rate cost for gas and can be supplemented to fuel oil in case of an emergency. Puliafico said he was able to negotiate a good cost from Enserch, the main company from whom they purchase the gas. He also emphasized that if there was ever to be a future energy cri- sis, the school can easily convert to fuel oil. They normally bum gas, but duel fuel in combination with new technology can safe- guard the school from any heating or water problems. Along with the renovation of the boiler, the Boiler House is in the process incorporating state of the would go in that direction, we would try to accommodate stu- dents in our own facilities.\ seem to obstruct the walkway from the Library to the College Center, are also harmless precipitation be- ing released into the air. Accord- ing to Puliafico, the underground piping is as old as 30 years in some places and sometimes the installa- tion around those pipes begins to break down. \This causes the ground water to get into the pipes and flashes to steam,\ Puliafico said, \'It [the steam] travels to the nearest manhole.\ Campus Operations usually has people trying to pump them out but with all the thawing and rain its ''an impossible task,\ Puliafico said. The steam is merely innocuous ground water and the campus should be aware that more steam tends to get released under the common Upstate winter inclement weather conditions. \I wouldn't walk through the steam and walked through social sciences,\ said junior Raquel Millman, \I was scared of the possibility of it be- ing harmful.\ It is now confirmed that Schenectady smog is not caused by campus operations or the Boiler House. Gray clouds emitted from that building and the manholes are just innocuous billows of steam, clean enough to breathe in, walk through, and even stop for a facial. move. \Despite student support to the contrary, the lunch schedule changed and it has adversely af- ready startecl as people realizt: .....---------------------------, I-bwOass SclWiling Wls Affected ... what's going on. We have tried a policy putting 'all hands on deck.'\ Oth.:r cha11gcs have induJcJ the renovation ofDutch Hollow (with new menu items, including om- elets to alleviate Thursday Upperclass rushes). Pearse added, \We went to two cashier stands [at Dutch] in order to cash people out one-third more rapidly.'' Surrounding business owners are willing to help alleviate the 8:40-9:45 M11F 9:S11:00MAF 11:1().12:151W\F 1~25-1:llMAF 1:4).2:45 Ml\f 2:554:00 MN= 9:l).11:2lmt 1:mal11h MN J1 43 44 2B 31 B a> 33 24 S:D-9:35 Ml\f ~(-1~ 9'.45-10:00 wr 35(-8) 11 :00.12:(6 MJ\f 45(+1) ~mF 6(-~ 1 :3)..2:35 MI\F 27(4) 2:45-3:5) MI\F 16(-18) 9:15-11 :05llh* ll(+13) 1 :»3:2) 11h 40(~ 32 *-0- dining hall traffic. Paul Lichorat, L---------------------------' proprietor of Geppettos Restaurant on Nott Street, stated, \Geppettos Restaurant \.VOuld be more than happy to accommodate Union stu- dents on a Validine system. I hope that Dining Services will tum to us if they 11eed help.\ Pearse has not completely dis- missed such ideas, but he doubts they will occur. \Before the schoo I Students who want to change the system back to the former style have little time to react. Preregis- trations questionnaires will be sent out around fourth week of the tenn in order to prepare for the seventh week procedures. Junior Josh Chaplin, one of the main petition circulators last term, still feels that the administration made a wrong fected things. I think less people are eating, not more.'' The AAC refused to examine the issue at last week's meeting, according to Student Forum sources. While some things are filtering out, the administration and students must determine whether the benefits of the system outweigh the inconveniences. Can - B Wh Unior: the tl 1971. mill ic biome the sp keep ruses Bio hund1 ceivec gover evers Nott r ary l:L kets \ uted t the F1 techn tive, r larger Wh have! from Waite inves1 tho us rally- Acco doing safe.'· rest o becaL resen cross· T\W Sien< have listen Colle catio ming this~ Afte deem ule ir dele§ pres I more onth ing tt pen Well WV< radic Fit WRl WV< That has< alrea diffe addi1 it ha~ the r gion and Ther ings whic pol it Acti faun cial · caus wv, tion boar 'helt Shet

.I I Biohazard and Chemical Warfare: All in a Day's Work for Dr. Fein by Aileen Quigley Stqff Writer When Henry Fein attended Union, he caught a major case of the flu during the epidemic of 1971. Today, his job at the $200 million Department of Defens.e biomedical laboratory is to prevent the spread <Jf such diseases and to keep biologically-engineered vi- ruses from being used in warfare. Biological warfare dates back hundreds ()f years, and has re- ceived considerable attention from governments all over the world ever since. During his lecture in the Nott Memorial on Monday, JanuM ary 12th, Fein pointed out that blan- kets with smallpox were distrib- uted to Native Americans during the French and Indian War. This technique, though cruel and effec- · tive, hasbeenmodemizep to much larger scales. ~ While diseases like smallpox have been scientifically eradicated from the general population, Walter Reid has been involved in investigating how to eliminate the thousands 'Of other kriown natu- rally-occuring diseases as well. Accor9ing to Fein, \the Army is doing this work to keep soldiers safe.\ Their research benefits the rest of the population, Fein added, because many of the recruits rep- resent a demographically diverse cross-section of the genetal pub- lie. The development of vaccines that wottld protect the soldiers would be just as valuable to citi- zens of all countries. Effectively, he stated, \this r.esearch ... effects the health of us alL\ Fein explained that biochemical research is of interest to the mili- tary because soldiers are often sent into foreign countries where diseases are present against which the men and women of the United States have no natural defenses. Diseases prevalent in many third-world countries, for example, are \major concerns of the Armed Forces.\ The trooJ>s sent into Vietnam in the 1960s and 1970s were seriously afflicted by the strings of viruses and . bacteria the likes of which they had never had previous contact.. Fein also cited that during the construction of the Guam Canal, malaria killed more soldiers than Japanese bullets. This, chem.ically-en- gineered vaccinations are of . the utmost interest to the United States governme11t. Since the introduction of vacci- nations by Dr. Jonas Salk and Dr. Sabin at the turn of the century, the results have been significantly beneficial. In 199 5, the infant mor- tality rate was only 10% of what it had been in 1915. In addition, the maternal death rate of 1 in 300 has been dramatically reduced to 1 in WVCR: College or Commercial? by Michael DeMicco News Editor Two months ago, listeners of Siena's WVCR 88.3FM might have noticed a difference in their listening experience. While Union College students were on their va- cation, some massive program- ming chattges were undertaken at this popular college radio station. After a college review board deemed the programming sched- ule in need Qf revampm ent, it was delegated from the office of the president, that there was to be no more \Heavy Metal\ to be played on the air. Many are prohably ask- ing themselves how this could hap- pen at a col1ege radio station. Well, there is a difference between WVCR a11d the average college radio station. First of all, compared to our own WRUC's 100-watt transmitter, WVCR has 250 times the power. That's rigllt, this for-profit station bas a 25,000-watt transmitter, so already one can see that it has some different pressures applied to it. In addition, WVCR has recently, as it has been in the past, been ranked the number one station in the re- gion even over that of FLY 92.3 and The EDGE 103.5/103.9. Therefore they feel the .pull of rat- ings and the call of popularity, which do not nonnaHy play in the politics of college radio. Siena's Activities Director, Bill Sherman, found this change to be \benefi- cial for the people who listen\ be- cause \that is what they wanted.\ WVCR is run like a real radio sta- tion that has a student executive board, but with paid overseers who 'help' to make the decisions. Bill Sherman has stated that during the first three weeks <Jfthe change, the station had not received a single complaint. In fact, he said thatthe student executive board had planned to do it in May, and the President's order just happened to expedite their plans. When asked if he felt that it in any way effected the goal of col- lege radio, Sherman stated \No we still have different shows in Gaelic, Spanish, ltalian, and all the rest.\ The General Manager, Terry O'Donnell, could not be reached for questioning diie to the amount of media covera.ge this story achieved when it first happened. When Peter Simon, Program Manager of WRUC .was asked about the change in policy of Sienna's station, he found that this was in direct vio lati()n ofthe \col- legiate radio spirit.\ \Thirty years ago, our parents would have re- volt~d at such a rash decision from the administration, a blatant use of an authoritarian ability, in a man- ner that directly challenges the sovereignty a student institution/' exclaimed Simon. The members of the WRUC Executive Board found themselves · very thankful for the laissez-faire attitude, and the trust for that mat- ter; that has been granted to them • by Union Co.llege. \It is ,obvious that Union has utmost trust when · it comes to the student radio sta- tion, and we thank the admin istra- tion for that,\ said Jon Gasthalter, · Sportscaster for tbe WRUC Sports Department. When looking at the situation , everyone appears to be satisfied · with the change at WVCR. \There does not seem to be any malcon- tent from the st11dent body\ said Shennan. 1 0;()00. Clearly, Walter Reid has come a long way since making that first connection between the Panama Canal epidemic ofrna.Jaria and the mosquitos that transmitted it. However, Fein cited that the centers that are responsible for the development of such innoculations are extremely expensive to oper- ate. The operation of a biochemical research facility requires an exten- sive amount of precautions and meticulous procedures. The four levels of biosafety range from the non-infections to the potentially lethal. Levels 1 and 2 are relativ_ely low-risk, but beginning at Level3, air must be circulated throughout the building at least 4-5 times ev- ery hour. Compared to a nmmal office building, which changes its air roughly 1-2 times per hour, this frequent dilution of the chemicals is clearly indicative of the danger leveL At Level 4, Fein revealed \things get real scary,\ since it would only take a small amount of the substances present to kill a human being. Air is circulated even more frequently at this level, adding to the alr~ady as- tronomical costs that are ac- crued in the undertaking bio- chemical endeavors. The samples are escorted from special planes to and from the laboratories by police, and ever vial and specimen must be carefully accounted for. f'ein cited that the security measures and safety precau- tions that make this research, albeit necessary, very expen- sive. Workers in these facilities are aware of the risks involv- ing in this type of research, though Fein stated how em- ployee safety has turned this into \a politically and emotionally charged issue.\ As seen in the Pucinelli case, where a young fe- male daimed to have contracted a terminal disease from her work at the fa~ility, there are still many questions unanswered as to whether we are making actual progress in the field of disease re- search. In addition to employees, other countries have been raising ques- . ti()ns regarding the biomedical re- search of the United States. Some foreign skeptics believe that large scale vaccinations could be a sign ofamilitary strategy. Theybelieve that we will vaccinate our citizens and then use it against our enemies ina wartime situation.lt is for this reason, Fein claims, that the U.S. is not the only country to still pos- sess a sample of smallpox stock. T() take steps to eliminate all ex- isting strains of it would involve complicated international treaties. ''\It would be the first time where one species totally eradicated an- other species.\ Most reeently,. the Gulf War heightened concern over bio- chemical warfare, specifically the suspected exposure of troops to the Anthrax virus. The Anthrax vac- cination requires a series of six sh<Jts ov~r .a period of 18 month!i, and Fein admits it is not an ideal innoculation process. Neverthe- less, the safety of the soldiers war- rants employing any possible pre- cautions. While the danger of interna- tional ware is not presently loom- ingon the horizon, the Department ofDefensebiomedical research fa- cility will continue to make ad- vances in the medical field, veter- ans will continue treatment for exposure, and citizens will con- tinue to get their shots. Renovations Set for Achilles by Douglas Baskies Contributing Writer training room and a large weight ready for next season is because room would be built, making it one would have had to order the more accessible for athletes, thus equipment by the first of January Doing it once, and doing it right. freeing up the weight facilities in in mderto have it here for the sum- That's the project mentality con- the Alumni Gym for the general mer months. We also won't begin cerning the most recent planning student population. Also, new until we have all of the money. It with renovation at the Achilles locker rooms, for both men and will probably be done by the fol- Rink. women, are being projected. !()wing year.\ With air compressors failing, Many changes for athletic teams The estimate for this refurbish- dasher-boards rotting, and a need would transpire with such a mentis at a minimum of $1 mil- for the floor, floor .------------------------, Ji()n, but is most likely pipes, and dehumidifi- to be targeted around ers to be replaced, a \I want to see that both the $2.5 million. With suggestion was made fundyaising .for the ·lastyeartobuildanew WOmen'S and men'S hockey Achilles Rink being ice rink complex off- moved as the top prior- campus. But more re- programS are give a bo:ost.\ ity on campus activity, cently during the past • ,J after the F.W. Olin Ceo- few months, meetings -Stan Moore, Men's H eau terprojectandSchaffer have been taking place .,.Ce uockey Coach Library expansion have to decide how to im- .I.. I n 1 already been com pen- prove the current con- sated for, Paul ditions at the rink and Rieschick ('74), the Di- ther.efore keeping it where it has been for the past 23 years. Last April, President Roger H. Hull sent a memo to the campus community about the decision to keep the AchilJes Rink on campus. It would have cost an estimated $8 million to move off-campus, and instead, with the additional persua- sion from the student body, Hull chose to renovate rather than to construct. Stan Moore, Head Ice Hockey Coach and Rink Director stated, \As a Division I hockey coach, there are things that need to be done in excess to be at least com- petitive. I want to see that both the women's and men's hockey programs are given a boost.\ So far, the renovation plans en- tail a new fitness area in the base- ment of Achilles Rink. A new project. New renovations would give the football team a penn anent home in the basement of Achilles, transfonning the curling facility in the basement into locker rooms. Field hockey and lacrosse for women would also be placed in the basement. The men's lacrosse team would inherit the present men's football locker room for their brief spring season. Offices where coaches could dress with their teams would be built. Also, the rink is to be made more handi- capped accessible. The date projected for the start of these changes has not yet been determined. Coach Moore stated that the project originally was sup- posed to begin April 1, 1997, but novv it has changed. President Hull had an answer for this delay; \The reason that it probably won't be rector of Administration/Senior Development Officer, said,\We llave not yet started any thndraising yet. But we definitely will be raising money for the rink very shortly, after of course we look at a few different plans from the architects.\ Meetings for the remodeling has been taking place sporadically, the latest of which was last Thursday, January 8 1 h. L()reli Rucinski, Assistant Direc- tClf of Campus Relations, attended the most recent meeting about Achilles. He said, \Richard Sakala, the Athletics Director, has made it clear to us the direction in which we are to follow. We are to n1ake sure that anything we do for the men must equal what we do for the women - it should be an equal partnership for both pro- grams.\

Campus Nt;ws Biohazard and Chemical Warfare: All in a Day's Work for Dr. Fein by Aileen Quigley Staff W1·iter When Henry Fein attended Union, he caught a major case of the flu during the epidemic of 1971. Today, his job at the $200 million Departmerlt of Defense biomedicallabora~ory is to prevent the spread of such diseases and to keep biologically-engineered vi- ruses from being used in warfare. Biological warfare dates back hundreds of years, and has re- ceived considerable attention from governments all over the world ever since. During his lecture in the Nott Memorial on MoBday, Janu- ary J2tl', Fein pointed out that blan- kets with smallpox were distrib- uted to Native Americans during the French and Indian War. This technique, though cruel and effec- tive, has been modernized to much larger scales. While diseases like smallpox have been scienti tlcally eradicated from the general population, Walter Reid has been involved in investigating how to eliminate the thousands of other known natu- rally-occuring diseases as well. Accor~ing to Fein, \the Army is doing this work to keep soldiers safe.\ Their research benefits the rest of the population, Fein added, because many of the recruits rep- resent a demographically diverse cross-section of the general pub- lie. The development of vaccines that would protect the soldiers would be just as valuable to citi- zens of all countries. Effectively, he stated, \this research ... effects the health of us all.\ Fein explained that biochemical research is of interest to the m ili- tary because soldiers are often sent into foreign countries where diseases are present against which the men and women of the United States have no natural defenses. Diseases prevalent in many third-world countries, for example, are \'major concerns of the Armed Forces.\ The troops sent into Vietnam in the 1960s and 1970s were seriously affl ictcd by the strings of viruses and bacteria the likes of which they had never had previous contact. Fein also cited that during the construction of the Guam Canal, malaria killed more soldiers than Japanese bullets. This, chemically-en- gineered vaccinations are of . the utmost interest to the United States government. Since the introduction of vacci- nations by Dr. Jonas Salk and Dr. Sabin at the turn ofthe century, the results have been significantly beneficial. In 1995, the infant mor- tality rate was only 10% of what it had been in 19 I 5. In addition, the maternal death rate of I in 300 has been dramatically reduced to I in WVCR: College or Commercial? by Michael DeMicco News Editor Two months ago, listeners of Siena's WVCR 88.3FM might have noticed a difference in their listening experience. While Union College students were on their va- cation, some massive program- ming changes were undertaken at this popular college radio station. After a college review board deemed the programming sched- ule in need ofrevampment, it was delegated from the office of the president, that there was to be no more \Heavy Metal\ to be played on the air. Many are probably ask- ing themselves how this could hap- pen at a college radio station. Well, there is a difference between WVCR and the average college radio station. First of all, com pared to our own WRUC's I 00-watt transmitter, WVCR has 250 times the power. That's right, this for-profit station has a 25,000-watt transmitter, so already one can see that it has some different pressures applied to it. In addition, WVCR has recently, as it has been in the past, been ranked the number one station in the re- gion even over that <Jf FLY 92.3 and The EDGE 103.5/103.9. Therefore they feel the pull of rat- ings and the call of popularity, which do not normally play in the politics of college radio. Siena's Activities Director, Bill Sherman, found this change to be \benefi- cial for the people who listen\ be- cause \that is what they waRted.\ WVCR is run like a real radio sta- tion that has a student executive board, but with paid overseers who 'help' to make the decisions. Bill Sherman has stated that during the first three weeks of the change, the station had not received a single complaint. In fact, he said that the student executive board had planned to do it in May, and the President's order just happened to expedite their plans. When asked if he felt that it in any way effected the goal of col- lege radio, Sherman stated \No we still have different shows in Gaelic, Spanish, Italian, and all the rest.\ The General Manager, Terry O'Donnell, could not be reached for questioning due to the amount of media coverage this story achieved when it first happened. When Peter Simon, Program Manager of WRUC was asked about the change in policy of Sienna's station, he found that this was in direct violation of the \col- legiate radio spirit.\ \Thirty years ago, our parents would have re- volted at such a rash decision from the administration, a blatant use of an authoritarian ability, in a man- ner that directly challenges the sovereignty a student institution,\ exclaimed Simon. The members of the WRUC Executive Board found themselves very thankful for the laissez-faire attitude, and the trust for that mat- ter, that has been granted to them by Union College. \It is obvious that Union has utmost trust when it comes to the student radio sta- tion, and we thank the administra- tion for that,\ said Jon Gasthalter, Sportscaster for the WRUC Sports Department. When looking at the situation everyone appears to be satisfied with the change at WVCR. \There does not seem to be any malcon- tent from the student body\ said Sherman. I 0,000. Clearly, Walter Reid llas come a long way since making that first connection betwee11 the Pana1na Canal epidemic of malaria and the mosquitos that tra11smit1ed it. However, Fein cited that the cen~ers that are responsible for the development of such innoculati<Jm are extremely expensive to oper- ate. The operation of a bioche111 ical research facility requires an exten- sive amount of precautions and meticulous procedures. The four levels of biosafety range fro111 the non-infections to the paten tially lethal. Levels I and 2 are relatively low-risk, but beginning at Lnel 3, air must be circulated througltout the building at least 4-5 times ev- ery hour. (()mpared to a nornal office building, which changes its air roughly 1-2 times per hour, this frequent dilution ofthe chemicals is clearly indicative of the danger leveL At Level 4, Fein revealed \things get real scary,\ since it would only take a small amount of the substances present to kill a human being. Air is circulated even ru()re frequently at this I eve I, .adding to the already as- tronomical costs that are ac- crued itl the undertaking bio- chemical endeavors. The sam pies are escorted from special planes to and from the laboratories by police, and ever vial and specimen must be care fully accounted for. Fein cited that the security measures and safety precau- tions that make this research, albeit necessary, very expen- sive. Workers in these facilities are aware of the risks involv- ililg in this type of research, though Fein stated how em- ployee safety has turned this into \a politically and emotionally charged issue.\ As seen in the Pucinell i case, where a young fe- male claimed to have contracted a terminal disease from her work at the facilit.)', there are still many questions unanswered as to whether VIe are making actual progress in the field of disease re- search. In addition to employees, other countries have been raising ques- tions regarding the biomedical re- search of the United States. Some foreign skeptics believe that large scale vaccinations could be a sign of a mHitary strategy. They believe that we will vaccinate our citizens and then use it against our enemies in a wartime situation. It is for this reason, Fein claims, that the U.S. is not the only countr:y 1o still pos- sess a sample of smallpox stock. To take steps to eliminate all ex- isting strains of it '\\uuld involve campi icated intemati()nal treaties. \It would be the first time where one species totally eradicated an- other species.\ Most recently, the Gulf War heightened concern over bio- chemical warfare, specifically the suspected exposure oftroops to the Anthrax virus. The Anthrax vac- cination requires a series of six shots over a period of 18 months, and Fein admits it is not an ideal innoculation process. Neverthe- less, the safety of the soldiers war- rants employing any possible pre- cautions. While the danger of interna- tional ware is not presently loom- ing on the horizon, the Department of Defense biomedical research fa- cility will continue to make ad- vances in the medical field, veter- ans will continue treatment for exposure, and citiz:ens will con- tinue to get their shots. Renovations Set for Achilles by Douglas Baskies Contributing Writer training roorn and a large weight ready for next seas()n is because room would be built, making it one would have had to order the more accessible for athletes, thus equipment by the first of January Doing it once, and doing it rigllt. freeing up the weight facilities in in order to have it here f()rthe sum- That's the project mentality con- the Alumni Gym for the general mer months. We also won't begin cerning the most recent plan!lil'lg student p()pulation. Also, new until we have all oftlle money. It with renovation at the Aclli lies locker r<Joms, for both men and will probably be done by the foi- Rink. women, are being projected. lowing year.\ With air compressors failing, Many changes for athletic teams The estimate forth is refurbish- dasher-boards rotting, and a tteed would transpire with such a mentis at a minimum of $1 mil- for the floor, floor r-----------------------, lion, but is most likely pipes, and dehumidifi- to be targeted around ers to be replaced, a \I want to see that both the $2.5 million. With suggestion was made fundraisi11g for the lastyeartobuildanew WOmen's and men'S hockey Achilles Rink being ice rink complex off- moved as the top prior- campus. But more re- p rograffiS are give a bOOSt.\ ity on campus activity, cently during the past , ,1 after the F. W. Olin Cen- few months, meetings -Stan Moore, Men's Heau terprojectandSchaffer have been taking place r u k C h Library expansion have to decide how to im- 1 ce £.1 oc ey oac already been com pen- prove the current con- sated for, Paul ditions at the rink and Rieschicl< (' 74), the Di- therefore keeping it where it has been for the past 23 years. Last April, President Roger H. Hull sent a memo to the catnpus community about the dec is i()n to keep the Achilles Rink on cam pus. It would have cost an estimate<l $8 million to move off-campus, and instead, with the additional poersua- sion from the student b<Jdy, llull chose to renovate rather tha.n to construct. Stan Moore, Head Ice l!0ckey Coach and Rink Director stated, \As a Division I hockey C()adl, there are things that need t<l be done in excess to be at least com- petitive. I want to see thllt both the women's and men's l1.0cke:y programs are given a bo()st.\ So far, the renovation plans en- tail a new fitness area in the base- ment of Achilles Rink. A neVI project. New renovations would give the football team a permanent home in the basement of Achilles, transfonn ing the curling facility in the basement into locker rooms. Field hockey and lacrosse for women would also be placed in the basement. The men's lacrosse team would inherit the present men's football locker room for their brief spring season. Offices where c<>aches could dress with their teams would be built. Also, the rink is t~ be made more handi- capped accessible. The date projected for the start of these changes has not yet been determin~d. Coach Moore stated that the pmject originally was sup- posed to begin April I, 1997, but now it has changed. President Hull had an answer for this delay; \The reason that it probably won't be rector of Administration/Senior Development Officer. said.\We have not yet S1arted any fundraising yet. But we definitely will be raising money for the rink very shortly, after of course we look at a few differe11t plans from the architects.\ Meetings for the remodeling has bee11 taking place sporadically, the latest of which was last Thursday, January 8'h. Loren Rucinski, Assistant Direc- tor ofCampus Relations, attended the most recent meeting about Achilles. He said, \Richard Sakala, the Athletics Director, has made it clear to us tl1e direction in which we are to f<Jllow. We are to make sure that any1hi11g we do for the men must equal what we do for the women - it sh()uld be an equal partnership for both pro- grams.\

J; j· ~ t·: l .· _.., ·- ~ ~ ~- 7 l:·',:·$\ ·~·( •l -~ -:-- ~! ':: .~ -~- ( ·! '!:< ~ {,~\< :~ ·. ~ , p,.\' ~ ~ .i:: ~.Ill ,., J• 1i i;j- a {i; ~ . . . . t 1 >' . it . ~- ~ if;' !§ INTERNATIONAL JoB SKHLS ~~~Yif;}-:~:~ 9 :t~tt-~i ~ ., · · : ., .. ,. l!·: : ~ ! 1 , ·f :. : New professional MA. in Inter· · , : · :. t ~. -· , \' • · national Affairs ()r tnterameriw ,. -~t- ij' ~ ., S\\·-'1 'dl t , , .. , \ ~~ ~' :~ .; ~ '; •• : ·~ % '· ~U\Jles prepares you rapt · y .or , · ' exciting careers: ·:f • Credit card debt can be criticaH Keep your credit card debt limited to what's essential: e<lucationally related expenses~ CollegeCard is a low interest loan in the form of a CH!<lit card to help you through schooi and protect your financial well-being. Examine the possibilities. Call 8oo~532~7644 to apply by phone. f} k ~ t.' ;_ i...:: SOUTH\VEST STUDENT SERVICES CORPORATION® ~ff A nontwafir colpc,wtitm 1201 s. Alrna Sciwol Roc1d. JIL'h Flo(/T •111 J'lumoting<Wf.,~ .'\ksa, AtiZ{JtW 85210-2014 w ducail<ln Ttttp:l!,~·wt~:ss.sc.com UMCH(«UGi CDC up· dates ... Cttrm DtvtltfJ1fttnt Cettttr INTIRYIIWINC FROM THI IICRUITIIS PIMtiCTIVI with Tom Parent, Human Resources Manager at GE, tonisht. January 1 Sth at 7pm in Old Chapel. He will discuss behavioral based interview- ing, including what to expect and how to prepare. 'Ibls fUllll1s part of the recruiting contract required to participate in Interviews. Representatives from SOLOMON 6 SOLOMON, Alli.NY wm be in the CC Atrium today, January 15th to discuss p&lt-dme jobs. Resume Deadline for LOCKHIID MARTIN-IAI'L, IMC. Friday, January 16th for Mechanical Engineers and Engineers for Nllclear Operations. BS and MS students are welcome to apply. Sign up by January l~th for IIHAYIORAL-IAS. MDCI INTIRYIIWS beiag offered between 12 and 3pm 011 Jan1Jarj' 21, 22, or 23 at the Holiday Inn. Meet and network wltll Union alums in New York City at the HYC ALUMNI/STUD INT RICIPTIOM on Thursday, Jan11ary 22 from 6:30 to 8pm. Sign up at the CDC by Friday. January 16 ard set details. Find out oow to search for and ~ure internships to bolster y{lllr work experience at the INriiNJHI' WOIWHO' onTu~J, January 2001 at 7pm in the CDC. · Leam bow to create a wJnning resume at the 1NnRt8HI' II• SUMIICOYII Ll I I II WOIICSHOf on WOOresday; JSlluary 21st at 7pm In the CDC. a environmental studies CJ public health a government 0 international organizations CJ international medial business Leam. valuable analytic skills from eco1~omics· and the social sciences. Complete this i11tensive multi~ disciplinary degree in 12 to 15 months, while living in a fasd· n~uing inlem~nional city. Free details. SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES Coral Gables, FL 3 3124·301 0 305·2844173; l:ax: 305·284-4406 www.mituni.edu/sis 1 T cha1 Sta Litt tanc mer as r the call' step the NA viet slov con aga Sea Sta1 sec1 NA tive ter · diet p rna~ Ter1 unt1 mat den filia The aw;: For ing gro sett Pro this spli sid1 mis will furt agr1 I sev we1 jus1 Th Da res in£ 5011 tak cal bui wit sh~ Un att! see SU( OUI

World News & Views LiamJoynt's World News Weekly Roundup by Liam Joynt Staff Writer Tomorrow, the U.S. will sign a charter agreement with the Baltic States, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania to support their admit- tance to NATO. Although ot'h.er members·ofNA TO have not shown as much enthusiasm as the U.S., the Charter of Partnership (asit is call'ed) represents a huge a first step for the Baltic States. Since the collapse of the Soviet Uni-on, NATO expansion into forrner So- viet spheres of influence has been slow and cautious. Russia has long considered the Baltic States a buffer against invasions from the Baltic Sea and has offered the Baltic States incentives (such as \joint security guarantees\) not to j.oin NATO. There has been no ne.ga- tive Russian r~sponse to thedtar• ter contrary to some critics' pre- dictions. * * * Peace talks in Northern Ireland may be hindered by the murder of Terry Enwright by the Loyalist Vol- unteer Fore e. Enwright's unci e {by marriage) is Gerry Adams, Presi- dent of Sinn Fein., the political af- filiate of the Irish Republican Army. The Loyalist Volunteer Forcebr()ke away from the Ulster Volu11teer Force because of a cease-fire be- ing honored by larger guerr 111a groups. Although a final pe;ace settlement between Catholics and Protestants is still in the process·, this killing follows otherattacb by splinter terrorist factions (on hoth sides) not interested in comiJro- mise. fvlany fear Enwrights death will lead to retaliation by Cathd ics, further hindering any conclusive agreement. * * * Economic turmoil contin11es to rage through Asia as markets and currencies rapidly fall. Stocks in various Asian markets fell between 14 and 23 percent last w.eek with Indonesia suffering the worst con- sequences with the value of their currency dropping over twenty percent. President Suharto contin- ues to lose political backing as In~ donesian economic conditions worsen. Asia's largest investment bank out- side of Japan closed in Hong Kong on Mon- day, increasing the pres- sure on Mr. Suharto to act. The U.S. and other countries are recom- mending that Indonesia accept help from the In- ternational Monetary Fund (IMF), but Mr. Suharto is reluctant to do so, since it means a loss of financial plan- ning autonomy in the future. The nations pressuring Mr. Suharto point to the example of South Korea who was bailed out by the IMF and since have shown rising numbers in their stock mar- ket. The U.S. and Japan could both be economically damaged in the near future ifthe Asian markets do not begin to stabilize. * * * Economic predictions point to the United States Federal Govern- ment running budget surpluses in the next few years, and a.s early as this year. This leads to a hot politi- cal topic for both the 1998 congres- si6nal elections and the 2000 presi,.. dential elections: What do we do with the extra money? Many Re- publicans have stated that they favor tax cuts, mainly because they believe it will lead to further eco- nomic growth. On the other hand, many Democrats have proposed increased spending on education, health care, and other social needs. Without better service in tllese ar- eas, Democrats believe we will fall behind in an increasingly competi- tive global economic market. The third option for surplus funds would be to pay off some of our $5,000,000,000,000 debt. Many economists believe this to be an essential step in safeguarding our economic future. * * * Chicago Physicist Richard Seed has pledged to use the cl<>ning technology developed by Scottish scientists to clone the sheep Dolly in an attemptto clone a human be- ing in the next two years. His plan is to take the DNA from a woman's egg and replace it with the DNA of the person being cloned. The em- bryo would then be implanted in the woman. The medical field and the political world have unani- mously spoken out against this practice as an amoral act A bill that would ban any human cion .. ing for at least five years (written by President Clinton} is presently before Congress with word of quick bipartisan passage. * * * An annual poll conducted by re- searchers at UCLA shows apathy and materialism at an ali time high for college freshmen across the na- tion. According to the survey, 74.9 percent identified being well off as an essential life goal, while only 40.8 percent chose devel- oping a philosophy as a life goal. ln 1968, those percentages were re- versed with 40.8 percent choosing financial secu- rity and 82.5 percent con- cerned with developing a philosophy. \Keeping up to date with political af- fairs\ was very important or essential as a life goal to only 26.7 percent of freshmen this year, com- pared with 57.8 percent in 1966. The survey's founder, Alexander Astin, believes these results are at least partially dlle ~o . watching television. As ~-'~a.,.rA- · support for this, he cites a study he conducted in the 1980s that tracked freshmen for four years and found the more tele- vision they watched, the more their materialistic tendencies increased. * * * The Democratic National Com- mittee voted to lift their self-im- posed ban on donations from non- citizens who are legal permanent residents in the U.S. (a legal prac- tice). The ban was original 1y an- nounced about a year ago in the face of allegations that the DNC was accepting contributions from foreign nations siphoned through noncitizens who are legal penna- . nent residents (not a legal practice) and other illegal campaign fundraising charges. The DNC stated that among its reasons for lifting the ban is to honor the exceptional contribu- tions of immigrants to America throughout history. * * * According to new data from two groups of scientists, the universe will expand forever and it has ex- isted for about 15 million years (double some earlier estimates). Most scientist agree that the uni- verse was created by a conglom- eration ofall matter into a tiny space that exploded outward, known as the Big Bang. For years, there has been contention whether the uni- verse would continue to expand forever or if its mass was large enough to stop the expansion and bring all matter together again in the Big Crunch. By measuring light emitted from dying superno- vas, astronomers at Berkeley and Harvard (working separately) have determined that there is not enough mass in the universe to slow down its expansion and cause a Big Crunch. * * * In an upcomi,ng deposition, President Clinton will be face to face with Paula Jones who has ac- cused him of sexual harassment and impmper conduct at a Demo- cratic event when Mr. Clinton was Govemor in Arkansas. At the time Ms. Jones was working for Mr. Clinton and claims that he asked her up to a room in the hotel where the event VIas being held and them made improper sexual advances towards l1er. President Clinton de- nies that any of this ever happened and says he is not worried at all about the upcoming hearing. Originally, Ms. Jones was not going to attend the deposition, but she has decided to face Mr. Clinton. Another change in strat- egy by Ms. Jones' attorneys has prompted her to raise the price of a settlement <leal from $700,000 to $2 million. This Week In Union College's History by David Dussault History Editor In the late sixties and early seventies, two familiar buil<lings were constructed on campus 1hat justmightringa bell to a few pe()ple. These two buildings were Davidson and Fox dormitory 1lalls, respectively. You ask why this information is pertinent or e-ven somewhat interesting? Well, if you take a stroll deep into the \so- called\ dungeo,n of tltese buildings, you will find that along with numerous Jiving areas, a.llomb shelter has been built to pr()tect Union students from an atomic attack during the Cold War. This seems like a perfect time to build such devices of protection since our country was exper-iencing the Bay of Pigs and The Cuban Missile teet the campus from possible was prepared to an astonishing constructed among students on Crisis. But if we look further into atomic attack,\ according to Pro- extent, all students were assigned how they would get through it to- the history .of Union College, like fessor Charles Hurd, chairman of particular shelters and periodic gether. This aspect of our January of 1951, accommodations the committee. drills were practiced on campus College's history is very prevalent were already being made-to protect This particular time period on our where wardens were elected to be on our modem day campus. the campus from an atomic attack. beautiful campus was a very tense in charge of making sure all stu- Although we do not have prac- Its amazing that such intense · time for the students and adminis- dents in their \so-called\ battalion tice atomic attack drills, and we do preparations were being made only tration alike. We cannot begin to were safe. not fear one to the extent of 1951, when the tensions with Russia compare the easy going days of Nowadays, we cringe at the very you never know what the near fu- were just beginning and Joseph living on campus today to the time thought of a \practice\ fire alann, ture could hold, especially with McCarthy was interrogating ofwhichyourlifewas in continual especiallyduringthemiddleofthe unstable people like Saddam anything that walked about being threat of being terminated. night. We do not take them seri- Hussein in power. a Communist. · This threat was not of a joking ously and tend to ask ourselves The next time you find yourself Printed on the front page ofthe matter, due to fact of Union • s what purpose they serve. !mag- complailling about a frre drill or any January 12, 1951 issue of the \ ... distance from the probal:Jle ine lyillg in bed and hearing a si- aspect of living on campus, take a Con~ordiensis is an article that is- bomb burst{aoout two miles from ren, jumping up and wondering if minute to think back to 1951, and sues precautions the College ad- the ·o.E. plant).\ This was a formi- the skies would be lit up with light know that on this very campus and ministration was taking in order to dable possibility because it was from atomic bombs? in these very buildings,· stude11ts prepare for an atomic attack. The factual that due toG.E.' s industrial All students worked together at our age had their lives in continu- article starts off, \The Union Col- potential, it was marked as the sev- that time, pre-med students were ous threat of that one evil that can lege Committee on Civil Defense is enth target to be destroyed on the in charge of administering first aid, triggered. by the push of a but- cQntinuing work on plans to pro- agenda of the Russians. Union and post-attack p·lans were being ton-an atomic attack!

•• • I II UNION LAUNDRY S'l Nott St.rel 1 t Scbeoedady, NY 11308 71 Cents A Wasb WithOtlrl\)ken Sys!em Free Drying Tuesdays & Til\LI)J~I)S Sam - 3pm ·> NEW TRfPLE LOA:I) )VAS HER·:· IIARNARD COLlEGE..COLGAlEUNI\IERSlh;CORNEll UNIVERSITY HAMILTON COlLEGf...MANHAnAN COLlEGE\ST.IAWift-IGEUNJitiiiSIT\'; 'JH E PEW-- HEw ·yuJ~J~ PIJ{0GHt-1tvl JtJ .u J j ,[) £Ji G J: A [) u A \I E ~ c H JJ c; E E D ,U c A J J Od Summer 1998 Student Research Opportunities A unique opportunity to gain researctl~XlJe-ritnce with a faculty mentor and work with student~ from oth~r cellleges and universities at one of tbe following i11stitutio11s: • Bamard College • \\'\ir1o11 College • Colgate University • lllnfliltJitiln College • Cornell Universit.v • St~ir.Jtlnrence U11iversity • Union College !1-J() WEEK SUMMER P~fJGJ{~tlt $2,0011.00 STJrl\ll rtt:S $500.00 TRA. \'ELJJI(lCSI~G f:XPENSES FOR ,\1\ ·\l'l'LH' \TIO\i O.R FOR fl'RTIU:R DETAilS, CliJN'Ill <T YOUR INSTITUTIONAL R~.I'Rb~.'H·\ Tl\ E: Dean's Office xEi:!!33 Or call CORNf:LL UNIVErulrTll' 60'7•255·2710 BARNARD COllEGE .• COLGATE UNIVUSllY' .. CilRI'IIll UN!Yfi!SITY HAMilTON COLLECE .. MANHAIT AN COLUGE .. ST. LAWIUN(I tl/iiVElSITY .. UNION .COUlGE. . .·,, .. Domino's Pizza 716 State Street Schenectady, NY nion College Specials~. Buy 2 Medium Handtossed Pizzas With 1 Topping On Each $9.99+ Tax Buy 1 Larg,e· Handtoss,ed Pla:in Pizz.a $6.99+ Tax Phone4· (518)372-4441 Store H,o,urs: Mon-Thur 4:30PM-2:00AM Fri-Sat 11AM-2AM Sun 11AM-1AM 0 ' pu~ Un ing tinl da~ the an< the be.: fes Fel I Jan giz wo car het hat stu eff I det bre tra1 strc lar: me COl bet sib tui1 the co] mu nat cia j am me OU1 1 tak be de! yo1 I: CC st tc w w te c1 OJ li' fc u f< w pl

Advertisements Domino's Pizza 716 State Street Schenectady, NY Union College Specials!! Buy 2 Medium Handtossed Pizzas With 1 Topping On Each $9.99+ Tax Buy 1 Large Handtossed Plain Pizza $6.99+ Tax Pl1o11e~· (518)372-4441 ~: Store Hours: ~ . UNION Lt\l!NDRV S61 No tt St ret t Schenermd r., ~y 12308 • ~~ NE~V TRIPLE LOAD \\'ASHER·:· • n I hi:•,£L :rJ.Lt-'~' rr;.r,A 1 f. 'ii>1P.S!Il.(fJ£1,ifJ v\-:riHIIT' ~------~-~~_ .. _,._,.r_·•l_!~_u_~~-~~-~p_~··_C'_L_~~-~~-'_l~'-~'_'~_'v_~~_vE_~m_. _.u~_·~~_c_m_~_~--~~ ' I ~ \ ,.. ,; . \' - ;_., : '!'- J Ji; , I ,j - J - I • ' ,J ,\ r f 'i • J , . .) ~ ; • r. I J. ,, .. -·~·.. f'rM,..~r-.-i,.,r ... , -I •. J.: ;: - .'.;,_.I d i-.: : .) -. !: 'l - r: .c!...) .J ~f . . I '.)I J Summer 1 ~98 Student Research Opportunities \ ~11iquf: r1pp.r1rtunit~ trJ gain rt-,r:arth t\peritnce ~\ith a faculty m~ntnr and \\'ork 1--1ith <.tudent-, frum other college.;, and uninrsities at rmt r1f the ffJJI(Jv. ing in'ltitutions: • Ramard ( nlltl!f • lfamiltrm Collef.{e • (\!vall' f nner'tl\ • \fanhattan College • ( r.nud( I nner'lf\ • \ainl Inwrenr e l.'nirenif) ll~ 111 \1 1.f II ~I \1'\lf<R l'fH){,!l \\1 kt•li'•'•t'' 111'1.\li l'f t \~:1111 1111 H~\ \f.l.il!Ol q\(, ~ \l'f \<,L<., f' ~~ ,., ·r•;·f (' 1 ill J\ r iii l!l~ II ~Hill Hl¥11 \[1.\ Ill\ I II I \Ill lll,\1111'1 fll\\1 Dean's Office x6233 Or call COR\'1Hf. Dil\ERSI1Y (~17-255-271 0 OAkNARD COUfC,f .COLGATf U'-IIVfRSilY.COlNRl UNIVERSIT\' HAMill Oi-l COlLEi,f .\'A COLtfGI.SL !AWR!NCilJNIVER51TY..UNION COLLIGE M'on .. Thur 4:30PM-2:00AM Fri-Sat 11AM-2AM Sun 11AM-1AM . ' . . . . - \ ' ' · ·lfra·Dk Gallo &··So·n ·If·l~ot·ist· ·. -. ' ' • • , • •• - • > • • I. ' OJ v pusc llni ing ting day the and the: bea1 fess Feb Ir Jam gizi wor carr her hare stuc effc H den bre< trac stro Iars 11101 corr ber sib! tuiti the coli mur natt clai A am< 11101 out 1\; takt bet des1 you 1 ac fo1 SP ag co ste to W{ W( ter ch or: liv for Ur fo1 WI pu

OP/ED Un-Bearable! Vandalism is a serious problem in all cities, towns, and college cam~ · puses ofthe United States. It has a]s() been a cause for concern on the Union College campus. However, the general type of vandalism exist- . ing on Un·ion 's campus often ranges from the discharging of a fire ex~ . tinguisher to the uprooting ofa small sapling. However, this past Fri- day and Saturday nights, the statue Df a bear in the courtyard between the Reamer Campus Center and the Arts Building was first beheaded and then chopped into pieces the following evening and spread around the area by a group of presumably intoxicated students as a prank. The bear, created out ()f wood by Anthony Cafritz, a vishing adjunct pro- fessor for the 1997 Fall term, was part of an exhibition that runs until February 5'h. Opinions VN%014 OOXSTO Instead of being; able to honor Professor Cafritz at a reception on January 16th, Union will instead face the embarrassing task of apolo- :' gizing· for the fact that one or more of its students have destroyed his work,. which took many hours to construct. It is a treat for the entire campus community when any professor comes to Union to show his or her work be it a \V()rk of art, or a work of research. By destroying the hard work of a visiting professor, Union casts an image that says the student llody d()eS not appreciate nor care at all about your work and effort. Pointless Kay Moves to Opinions by David Kay Opi11ions Writer I've even gi·ven some thought about what I'm going to write this term over break. Speaking of break, is it just me, or was break not long enough? Goalie! Your boyfriend called- he said you suck!~' Well, I only got one letter sine,(! break. I guess people are too busy that they can't respond to my However, vanda:lism does not start or end with the unfortunate inci- dent of this weekend. Other incidents like the uprooting of a tree, the breaking of glass in doors and windows, and general littering all de~ tract from the beauty of Union Co1lege's campus. In addition to de- stroying the. aesthetic aspects, vandalism costs Union thousands ofdol- lars a year. Each time a window is broken, or a tree is uprooted it costs money that could weB be used for something beneficial to the college community. In donns, there is a five dollar fine assessed to each mem- ber of the floor a.fter an act of vandalism occurs, ifthe person respon- sible for the act does not own up to it. The money is added on to the tuition bill at the ~tart of each term and goes towards the repairing of the damaged structure. If.serious vandalism continues to occur, the college might well consider assessing each member ofthe campus com- munity a fine to pay. for the damage. Of course, if a policy of this nature was instituted by the administration, many would be up in arms, claiming that it wa:s not them who committed the act of vandalism. A fine for the campus community· would quite possibly curb the amount of vandalism that occurs on a: regular basis. Students would be more apt to not sta:nd idly while their friend broke a window or ripped out a tree if they k:new that they wouJd be punished for it. Most importantly, Union is our home for the moment and we should take pride in the fact that it is such a clean place. Vandalism should not be tolerated by auy of us in the campus community. lf you would not destroy something at you·r own home, there is no reason to do so at your home away from home. In Support of Group Living To the editor: _ While touri11g Union last weekend with my 15-year old, I picked up Well, here we go again; two more terms at Union. People ask me, \do you still plan on writing the same garbage that you did last term?\ To tell you the truth, I'm going to make some changes. I think I'm going to have to trim some fat from my column. I don't kn.ow ifl want to make as many people angry the next two terms as I did last term. For ex- ample, the reason I'm in Opinions now and not Features is primarily because of what I wrote about Michelle Tham, the Features edi- tor. i guess she got a little angry about the things I wrote about her and became so disgusted that she kicked me out of her section. To become fat free, I'm going to have to <>verhaul a couple of things. What should I change and what should I keep? Well, let's see. Trashy opinions aboutpeople and groups: keep. Letters section: keep. Big dark guys: gotta go. Hockey and Canadian stuff: keep. Schenectady trashing: enough. I'm afraid that the Schenectady stuff has gotten so old that people will just stop reading my column just like they stopped listening to that stupid radio show Sharkie and The Bird on Tuesday nignts. Boy, that show got old fast. I heard that they're not even on the air any- more; I guess they just couldn't get the job done. Well, I'm happy to be in Opin- ions considering that it's alii do. Sure, we were home for s.ix weeks, but right when everybody else came home, we had to go back. Oh yeah, it was great to be able to chum it up with my high school buddies for a week and a halfbefore coming back to school. At least enough happened over break to keep me entertained. Let's see ... Chris Farley died of a drug overdose. Maybe the government should put some kind of warning label on heroin. \Warning: Do Not Overdose if Over 300 Pounds.\ Poor guy. Seinfeld is no more ei- ther; but I ask, who cares? N<>t me. I think there's a lot more enter- tainment here at school than there was at home, though. Most of it derives from the fraternities, but not all. There have been some strange things that happened last term that have carried over from last. For example, there's this one kid on my floor who runs around naked with Gold Bond all over himself. Nothing weird like that ever happens back home. And then there'shockey.OK, so we're not doing the best in the ECAC, but it's still fun to watch bone crushing checks and the like. It's also funny to hear some of these guys in the crowd yelling out: \Skate on his face! I want to see blood! Punch him! Kick him!\ And then there's the Chi Psi boys yelling from the crowd; \Hey column. · \Why did yo·u write that stuFf about the Concordy being the Opinionensis a11d how almost all the articles are people giving their opinions? What <lo you think your column is, factu.a!? No, I know that my column is just my opinion aud all, but I just couldn't resist writing such a hypocritical article. Firstofall, th(;; editors told me that there was some extra space in the opinions section. Seeing that I always give my opinions, theytilought l would be able to write some quality mate- rial. But, I guess T didn't come through. It was.n~t a good idea be- cause I wrote some stuff about Q- ball that got Dan Queen mad at me. I was obviously just grabbing for things to write. I think I'm going to have to put this edition to a close. I admit, f really didn't have any idea as to what I was going to write when I started, but I didn't do too poorly. I'd I ike to thank a couple of people for the help they gave me last se- mester with my column. Firstofall I'dlike to thank Brian Yackel for the AA jokes and hockey stuff. If anyone needs any help with reconstructing furniture, he's the guy to call Next I want to thank Frank Rossi and Jon Gasthalter, the editors-in-chief, for not editing me to() much. a copy iQfThe Col'lcordierisis. I surmise from the articles entitiled \Hope 1--------------------------------------, for Fraternities'\ and \Sig Chi Gets One- Year Housing Renewal From SAC\ 'that the relevance of group living on the college campus is again llllder attac.k. If the missio11 of Union includes preparing students for life after college, th.en it is a mistake for Union to foJiow in .Hamilton's foot- steps. Group Living provides the most readily available opportunities to learn leadersllip, the politics of self~govemance, and the ability to work ill a group. Th.ese are non-academic tools required to live and work in our society. Union's mission to pursue diversity is inconsis~ tent with the elimination of group living. The minority that owuld choose group living should not be denied that right. Some fratern:ities are hurt by the requirement that all group living organizations eat at Union's dining 'halls rather t'han their own. Group living organizations are being asked to provide \something in return\ for their lease M College property. Rather than stifling these groups, Union should be asking itself what it can do to nuture them. I agree that fraternities in particular should offer its common space for evenets oti:Jer than partiies. However, withouth the partities where will Uni()n entertain these groups? Better to blow off steam on cam- pus than the alternative. Sincerely, John Robbins '71 Letters Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OPJED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less tha,n 500 words and sh<>uld pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed and saved on a high density disk although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, if the writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Ed ito rial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particular. Any opinion columns, or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appe~ring in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editor,ial Board. The Concordiensis is printed by World Media, 1104 Central Avenue, Albany, NY, 12205. The Concordiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Stt~dent News Service, & King Syndicates.

•!i, .. ~~ .} i 1 .1, OP/ED Un-Bearable! Vandalism is a serious problem in all cities, town'>, and college cam- puses of the l lnitcd States. It has abo been a cau<,e for concern on the Union College campus. However, the general type of vandalism exist- ing on Union's campus often ranges from the discharging of a fire ex- tinguisher to the uprooting of a small sapling. I !owcver, this past Fri- day and Saturday nights, the statue of a bear in the courtyard between the Reamer Campus Center and the Arts Building was first beheaded and then chopped into pieces the following evening and spread around the area by a grotl p of presumably intoxicated students as a prank. The bear, created out of wood by Anthony Cafritz. a visiting adjunct pro- fessor for the 1997 Fall term, was part of an exhibition that runs until February 5'h. Opinions ------ --- l1H%0N BtJOXSTO• .. ~- ~-- -----~------ - ---~- Instead of being able to honor Professor Cafritz at a reception on January 16'\ Union will instead face the embarrassing task of apolo- gizing for the fact that one or more of its students have destroyed his wo~,which~okmanyhou~~con~ruct. ItisatreMfurilieemire l-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- campuscommunitywhenanyprofessorcomestoUniontoshowhisor Pointless Kay Moves to Opinions her work be it a work of art, or a work of research. By destroying the hard work of a visiting profe~sor, Union casts an image that sa.:s the student body does not appreciate nor care at all about your work and effort. However, vandalism does not start or end \Vith the unfortunate inci- dent of this weekend. Other incidents like the uprooting of a tree. the breaking of glass in doors and windows. and general littering all de- tract from the beauty of Union College's campus. In addition to de- stroying the aesthetic aspects. vandal ism costs Union thousands of dol- lars a year. Each time a window is broken. or a tree is uprooted it costs money that could well be used for something beneficial to the college community. In dorms, there is a five dollar fine assessed to each mem- ber ofthe floor after an act of vandalism occurs, if the person respon- sible for the act does not own up to it. The money is added on to the tuition bill at the start of each term and goes towards the repairing of 'I the damaged structure. If s~rious vandalism continues to occur. the college might well consider assessing each member of the campus com- munity a fine to pay for the damage. Of course. if a polic) of this nature was instituted by the administration, many would be up in arms, claiming that it was not them vvho committed the act ofvandalism. A fine for the campus community would quite possibly curb the amount of vandal ism that occurs on a regular basis. Students would be more apt to not stand idly wl1ile their friend broke a window or ripped out a tree if they knew that they would be punished for it. Most importantly, Union is our home for the moment and wt: should take pride in the f<Ict that it is such a clean place. Vandalism should not be tolerated by any of us in the campus community. If you would not destroy something at your own home, there is no reason to do so at your home away from home. ... . •.· . . . . . . ' . . . . :·.. : ' : .. ' ' ' .. . The ·Question of t~e Week Write or email us with your answer to the foll()wing question: Do rusll and pledging shutdown the campus socially and acadelfliC(l/ly? ~ . ·' ., In Support of Group Living To the editor: While touring Union last weekend with my 15-year old, I picked up a copy of The Concordiensis.l sunnise from the articles entitiled \Hope for Fraternities\ and \Sig Chi Gets One-Year Housing Renewal From SAC\ that the relevance of group living on the college campus is again under attack. If the mission of Union includes preparing students for life after college, then it is a mistake for Union to follow in Hamilton's foot- steps. Group living provides the most readily available opportunities to learn leadership, the politics of self-governance, and the ability to work in a group. These are non-academic tools required to live and work in our society. Union's mission to pursue diversity is inconsis- tent with the elimination of group living. The minority that owuld choose group living should not be denied that right. Some fraternit1cs arc hurt by the requirement that all group living organizations eat at Union's dining halls rather than their own. Group living organizations arc being, asked to provide \something in return\ for their lease of College property. Rather than stilling these groups. Union should he asking itself what it can do to nuture them. I agree that fraternities in particular should offer its common space for evencts other than partiies. However, withouth the partities where willlJnion entertain these groups? Better to blow off steam on cam- pus than the altemative. Sincerely, .Jolm Robbins '71 by David Kay Opin;ons Writer ~-..-~- . - J.b'l)Ut v~ hJ.t I\ ;Y; ~Orr:::; :~~~ ·~l, ;:t~ :f: :) t c r rn 0 \ e ; ~ r C:' :1 ~ s r C' J. ~ ~ :1 ; ·~ :· brt .. l~. ~-:- tt !~~= T~:. ·.<· '.,., .1~ c-:-:: . .1., . -- Well. here \\c go again, [\\l) more tem1s at l'nion. People . .b]., me ... do ;. ou still plan on\ riting the same garbage that : ~'U JiJ lJst term 0 .. To tell ;. ou the truth. I'm going to mal--e St11lle clunges 1 thinh I'm gt1ing tl' hJ\c h' tnm some fat from rn: Ct'lunl n. I don· t J.,m'\\ if I \I ant [Ll mal--e as man;. people angt') rh r ne\.t t\1 l' temls as l did last tam. r:l,r e\- ample. the reason l 'm ir1 Opinil1ns 110\\ and not Features is prim,lril) because of what I 1\f'i.ltr L1bout Michelle Tham. the F~.?,1ttlres di- tor. I guess she got a lrttk angr: about the things I\\ rt1lr ,tbout h~.'r and became so J isgustcd th,ll she kicked me out tlfher section. To become fat free fm \uin\ ~ ~ ~ to have tL1 tl\crhaul a couple of thin<>s. What should I d13fl\e 3nd e ~ \\hat should I keep'? \.\'dL let's see. Trashy opinions about people and groups: J.,cep. Letters section: keep. Bi,, darl-- \ll\s: ''Otta \0. C' ::- .. ~ c- Hochcy and Canadian stuff: J.,eep. Schenectady trashing: ~1wugh. I 'rn afraid that the Scheaectady stuffhas gl)tlen so llld tlmt pctlpk will just stop reading rny column just like the;. stopped li~tt:ning ttl that stupid radio sho\1 Sharkie anJ The Bird on Tuesday nights Boy. that show got old fast. I heard that they're not even on th c air any- more; I guess they just couldn't get the job done. Well, I'm happy to be in Opin- ions considering that it's all 1 do. \\~~k~. bu~ r;~~t \\he::-: ~'v ~~1 c~~··..:: .. l:..._~::. ·'J.n, ~ h ..,'1'1__:,. 'l ~ h ~ ~ r -1 ·.• L1.=-\- \...- 11 . ...,. .. \. 1 ...... ~1 ..... l ...... : ....... '_ .=-....._· I ' ' l ' ' .. 1r.~ :l) (~11.n;1 !: Jt \\ ::r r:~: r .;.:-: s~hL1\.'~! buJJtc') ft...,r .J v .. ce~ Jr-:2 J. hJJfb~((l;(l,_,:'-1£11 Irl~ b~.h.:~ :\. 1 ).,.,:1'-~'--< .\t k.b[ CT11JU~h h.lJ=';'I.'fl\?J c'\ ~r \brc .. 1k. tL 1 k_cc~' :t1t? cntc:tJ!::t,J Lc-r·~ \''L' <'hri.; e >rlt'\ ·'•·'J' )• ' <,,' • _... '- ~ 1- .. 1. .. w ..... \. , ...1. w. \\\:=\' t1\ ;..)rJt)~(.?. \LJ)b-t: th(' ~\--'\ \?;nr~li.?:-'t ..;ht'U]J rut :'Lll11e ].,il1d L'f \\ ,m1TS L1bc\ L'l1 hert. 1 in \\\ Mnin;;. \.'!~.., ,,,l U\crJL'~L' tf L1\cr -~'ltl t\>unJ:-: .. I\)L)r t:u:-. Scinfeld 1s Ilt' rTll'rL' Cl- thL'r, but I :1s~. \\ ht' ,:.lrt'S' '\L'T .\1t' l thin]., thL'rL''..; .1 IL)t llh'f'' enter- tainment hcrL' dt sd1tlL~I th,m thac \\,iS ,It fll)Jllt'. thLlllsh. \1L'S[ llf It Jen\L'S frlll11 tht~ fr,ncrnitics. hm rwt alL There h:n c t'e<:n :'Llfllr.' strange things that h,lpf'L'ncJ !.1~t term that hm c carrit:>J L)\ er fwrn L1st. Fl,rC\ampk. tht:rr:'s thi:; L'f1C 1-.id lll1 my tlt't'r \\ lw runs .lrl'LmJ rMI--eJ \\ith <.1t11J B,,nd .Ill L1\ t'r himself. ;\;t1thing. \\t.'lrd lil--t' th.,Jt c1 a h.1prcm bLh:l-. lwmc .\nJ then there's hL,cl--~.·~ <. )K. :-'' \\c·rc rwt Jl1ing. thL' hc:>t tn tht' Fl':\C. but it'~ ~till t'un It' 1\.lk:il bLme crush111g t:ht.'t:b and the I ike It'~ alsll funn~ to ht·ar Sl'l11t: ~,f thest: g.u) s in the crowd ~ e 11 ing out: \Sl--ate on his t~1ce 1 I \\ant tt) see blood! Punch him! Kick him, .. And then there's the Chi Psi bt))S ~elling from the crowd; \Ht::\' . ~ • 1 'A -· : ~~ . .:: .j~ ~ ~> ~ ... ~ ~~:.: - - \\. ~,.:. ; \·~ _ .. \Vc : ·' i: ...... : .. .' thn.'u~h I: \\,.l~~~·t ,J ~ ... ''-'J ·~~J ~'-\ ... ( .. lll~(' 1 \.\r\.'tC' ~\''~n'\· .~:~.f~~ .!~,\\ .. ~t ('·- 1.. J] 1 tJ1·1~ •''1.'' r.ll' I JL' ·'·'r' '1' 1 · < :r ,. -' l''-.1 ... :: •l' ... , ................ ~ .......... .... thint:s k' \\TI!i..' I rhm~ I'm ft'al,: :c' !:J\-.' :,, r~;( t~~I~ ~J:rh. .. \'n rt..\' .1 ... -:\'~~~ ~ .. !.J~~-~ ·.~. i [ ._, !I • \ l . jr', r h ~' .) • ,~ \ , 4 _ .. l : . ~ ~ ~;, i • I. •I. I ~ '-'-'\ \o •• '.. · \'·\' ,,> ••~ •'\ \\ h l'[ 1 \\ l\ ,. )!T',' ,,, ,,,,.' .,,;,_,,:, ' ·~ ... - ::-. \._·.\ . :::- . ... - . . ~ ,, \. ' ~L.trt~..\~L 1'ut l ... ~:\.:~~·: ... L.' 1~..'·\' ~'\.)·l'~·: I '.J !1~ 1 '(' -'11\' 1. ,_ \\~.'\ , .. · ........... ~~'i. \.1 ' 1\(. ~ •.•. ; ' • \. \. ... .: \. I. . ~ \' ..... .. t ·,,r ·b-' 'l·'i\ 'll\\ ·' l\ ·' .,,., ,,. ~, '- ... • ..... ( \,. t •. '-· • .:::-\' '\. .. \. ··-. \. \ ,!( 1..-.•l fL'f tht' ·\-\ :t)J...t'~ .l:;,: lh''J.-.c; ~t.utl lf .m; ,,nc no.:'t'~..b .t:~: help'\ 1th rt'.:'t'f1StTLII.'tlng. fun11ture. he's tht' g.u~ t'' ('JII \it'\. I I 1\ .HH tt' thanJ.. Frank Rossi .md JL'H (iasthalt:er, tht:> editL,rs-in-l:hicf. fl'f not c::d itirtg, mt' hlll nHJ('h ; ' Letters Policy & Disclaimer j I Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED pttge and must be rc~ei\ cd b) 5 p.m. the Monday before publication. Letters must be less than500 '' tmls and slwuld pl~rtain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. Final decisil)ns C\Hlccrn ing printing and/or editing a subtnission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed and saved on a high dellsity disk although the autht)r's ttamc nel.)d llt'l app~~lr in the 11C\\:-;p,lp~;'r. if the writer so spccities. Letters do not ncccssaril~ rdkct the l)pittil)t1 tlf the hlit,,ri.ll Board. I Editorials rcf1ectthe opinion of a maj,)rity llfthc hlih,rbl B(1ard. cmd tll' ~.,nc memkr in particular. Any opi11ion columns, lW cartouns rctled the l'pinitlllS l1fth~ \\rita~ \'l' .nti~h. and not necessarily the opinions l,)f the EditL)rial Bl'ard. Advertisements appearing in nu· Concordit·mi.o,; dt) llllllll'(C~~.lt'il: rdk .. ·t the l'piniL'l1 l)f I the Editorial Board. I \' T'llc ~·oncor~lien~i.\' isprin_tcd b) World l\1edia. ll_l)-l Central r\H~Ill:c,_.\lb.m~. \:Y. I ~,~O:'i. I I he ( oncordrensr.\· subscrthcs to the lntcrc~.,Jiegtatc Press tlP). ~<lt1l11lal Student \lt:\\S J Service, & King Syrldicatcs . L-------------------------~- - -~ -· -~- ~-~~---~-- ~---~-~~------~-~-~-·-------~ - -~-- ~--

Science & Technology To Pierce or Not to Pierce ... The \Hole\ Story by Victoria.Hargr!faves Sc!ence & Technology Editor Brian has always vvan:ted a body piercing. Now that he is in college, he has the freedom fogetone with,.. out his parent's know! edge. On Saturday morning he goes to the local tattoo parlor/b()d)' piercing shop. As a man guides Brian to the back of the store te }()ok at the different types of piercings, his eyes race over the hun<lreds of pic- tures of tattoos. After looking through a seeminglyen<lless book ofpiercings, Brian finally decides to have his tongue pier<:ed. He is pleasantly surprised by a poster from the Association ()f Profes- sional Piercers of which the piercer is a member. The man explains the procedure and healtlt risks as he puts on a fresh pair of gloves and brings out the sterilized equipment. Confident about his decision, Brian reads and signs: the consent form. The clamp lowers down on his tongue. The man dra:ws two dots on Brian's tongue to indicate the needle's point of entry and exit. Brian clenches his fists and closes his eyes as the needle punctures his tongue. The man puts the bar'- be ll-'shaped ring through his t<mgue and wipes away th.e dripping blood, The piercer in\ forms Brian how to take care of his tongue ring. He must re- · turn to the shop to have it. resized in a month. Contented, Brian returns to the dorm to proudly show his friends the piercing. For sev- . era! weeks, he can not eat solid food and his speech is slurred, . but the pain is minimal, fortu- nately. A month passes and Brian . returns to the shop. He te!Js the piercer that he has not experi- enced any significant pain. The man begins to remove the old pierc- ing and insert the new, smaller bar- bell, when pain radiates through\ out Brian's mouth and tongue. Un- able to fit Brian with the new pier<:\ ing, the man reinserts the first bar- bell. Disappointed and uncomfort- able with the larger ring, Brian goes back to his dorm. For a week, he \Zip\ it Up and Take it with You by Dan KeJmanovich CoJitrihutillg Writer In recent years compllter proces- the parallel port drive but also re- sors have evolved int{) massive quires the purchase of a SCSI con- processing machines. Tllis evolu- troller card. tion required that larger storage A new drive called the Zip Plus devices be manu- .-------~------, can use both has shooting pains in his tongue. He finally concedes and takes the piercing out. Not only is Brian left with a hole in his tongue, he has paid $65 for it. Fortunately, not all piercings re- sult in an unhappy customer. How· ever, when piercings are not per- fonned correctly in sanitary condi- tions or maintained properly, they can result in infection or fatal.ill- nesses such as HIV and AIDS. One must be extremely careful with a piercing, especially an ear piercing which can easily catch in clothing and tear the earlobe. Plas- tic surgery can reattach the pieces of the lobe, but visible scarring · usually results. With an open woundsuch as a piercing, a person puts oneselfat risk to bacteria and other infec- tion-causing agents. Navel piercings commonly become infected because of repeated contact with clothing. Ear car- tilage is especially sensitive. \It has a poorer blood supply than soft tissue, is less resis- tant to infeetion, and has a higher chance of un-acceptable scarring and deformity.'~ An in- . fection can destroy the carti- ·lage replacing it with. scar tis- sue Which can pull the skin to- gether at that point \Certain infectious diseases such as Hepa- titis B and AIDS may also be trans- mitted ifthere is blood from a per- son infected with HIV or Hepatitis B left on a piercing device.\ Often times the jewelry worn in the hole causes proble1ns. \Ap- propriate jewelry is made of implant grade, high-quality stainless steel, sold 14k or 18k gold, niobium, tita- nium, platinum, or a dense, low- porosity plastic such as monofila- ment nylon, acrylic, or lucite.\ However, some people can have an allergic reaction to 14k gold or sur- gical steel. The plating of certain types ofjewelry can chip off and cause infection. The skin can grow onto the ring leading to discom- fort. Also; the ring is a foreign object which the body can reject. Heavy jewelry cari cut offthe oxy- gen supply to the tissue of an area resulting in an abcess or keloid, a distortion caused by a build up of scar tissue. Jewelry that is too small·can be \sucked right into the body.\ Ear studs are known to tear and pinch the lobe's tissue. \It is not unlikely that the body part pierced with an ear stud may lose all nerve sensitivity.\ Sources: \The Perils of Pierc- ing.\ USA Today. Feb, 1996: 15. wwvv. allegheny. ed u/h ospitals/ stchris/fyh/piercee.html www. cybercondo .com/PUB/ BODY ART/bacteria.html www. cybercondo ,com/PUB/ BODY ART/piercee.html www .sfo.com/~app/basic.html factured to hold types of connec- ~;,.;.;,;;;.;;,;o.;;.;.;,;,;..o.,;,.,......,_ ...... __ ..._ __ ......,_......, _______________ ....... ........,_ ........ .....,_,. the massofinfor- tions with im- mation required proved perfor- to produce mance. This drive today' s highly also costs an av- graphical pro- erage of $50 or grams. This evo- more. lution began with Zip disks can the CD-ROM ·range in price and larger hard- A Jeff & Dan Article from $12 to $15 drives. But, no major cheap changes had been implemented in the removable disk area. In the past two and a half depending on bulk purchases. The Zip disks can also be password protected so that the access to each disk is re- years this region has been ex- stricted. panded with the introduction ofthe The two main companies which Zip disk. manufacture Zip drives are Iomega The Zip disk drive is an attempt and Epson. The disks are manu- to replace existing 31fz iilch floppy factured by a wide variety of com- drives with disks that can hold 72 times the informatio11. Zip disks can hold approximately l()Omega- bytes (MB) of information as op- posed to the 1.44-MB limit of ear- lier floppy disks. The Zip drive comes in many forms. There are two external drive types that differ in the type of con- nection required to tll:e computer. One type requires a parallel port connection. This is tile same port that is used by attached printers. There is a pass-throug11 po11 on the back of the Zip drive so that a printer can still be attached to the computer through the Zip drive. The other type of drive is a SCSI (small computer systems interface) drive. This drive is much. laster than panies. Zip disks have become one of the most popular forms of remov- able media. Many faculty members and students own Zip drives mak- ing it easy to transfer large files. · Other types of removable media are available including 1GB Jazz drives and 120MB super disk drives. SyQuest also has compa- rable removable drives. All these removable drives are making the transfer and transportation of in~ formation safer and easier than ever before. As technology continues its evolution, these types of remov- able media will become an impor- tant part of every computer user's life. ATTENTION;FRESHMEN ·&SOPHOMORES GIDEON HAWLEY AWARDS FOR OUTSTANDING SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS If you would like an opportunity to thank a secondary school teacher who w~s influential in encouraging you to develop in important ways (academic, social, emotional growth) we are now soliciting nominations to honor outstanding high school teachers at the Founder's Day Cerenton~es. Please pick up a form from the Educational Studies Office or call X6361. Forms will also be available from Departmental Secretaries. ··oeadline for nominations is January 16, 1998. Sci ~ 1 Irr of c cold bast dow grab you ent~ ofb1 Vv ima! Bra; \Wa \i S1 1' h E c c (

f . s~~!:P.<=~-~Jech.!J_~logy .. . · · 'at~~iar~~~;i;-ejaniiary 15, 1998 • Pap;t!jJ The \Wave'' of the Future is Available Today! by Jennifer Trotts Staff Writer Imagine this: after a stressful day of classes, long lunch Hrtes, and cold weather, you .return to the safe bastion of your dorm room, sit down in front of your computer, grab the headset and goggles and you are instantly in atotally differ- ent state of consciousness, no loss of brain cells required. Well, for $11 0 you don't have to imagine that anymore. Neurotek, a Brazilian company, has created \Wave-The Softwareofthe Mind.\ Complete with virtual reality-like goggles, this bundle of software and hardware claims. to alter your mind without the ase of illicit substances. If yoa are inter- ested in meditation, hypnosis, general relaxation, or just a danger- free trip,thisis for you. They also claim that this can help increase memory and learning performance, Together, the hardware and software produce frequency. patterns. The effect is based on the vibration resonance that settles between the signs (light and sound) and the brai.n waves. ~y oocu..sing your attention on lights a.nd sottnds, Wave allows you to rucce:ss many states of conscious- rae:ss..and realities not normal to our dadlyexpedence. .Aoecording to clinical studies in . A Healthy Investment in Your-Futu Health .Care:. Those two words have been. the sou.rce of much discussi0on recently. Probably because we as a nation ~::::;;E;.: know the importan<:e of investing in a healthy futu('e. So do millions of patients who. choose chiropractit:: ~s their preferred source of health care. The chiropractic beliefs in . firn_ess, nutrition. prevention, and natural ma1nten~mce malke good $ensc. Lo~J~EI:il:: Wellnesst you see, is the normal state of bemg. New York State government agrees. They. have recentl;~ passed the Insurance Equality biU that mandates insurance co~erage f?r chlropracnc ~e. For over 75 years~ New York Chiropractic College htts uelte:il<l a tradition of exc.ellence in, chitopractic higher . education. Our combined traaitions, old and new, hav.e bailt the .base ®m whic:b the chiropractic doctors of the future are .;:rea ted. ~~·~l~~~~u. NEW YORK ,,,\\,\1 ~}/,,. CHIROPRACTIC COLLEGE Choose New Ynr\k Chiropractic College~ A healthy irwestment for today and tomorroW. 2360 :Route 89 Senec:a Fall:s, 1\'!Y 13148-0800 Call us today at 800-234-NYCC (6922) to schedule a visit of our beautiful 286-ca.cre eampus in central New York. Pbone: 3151568~3~ or 8001234·1\lYCC {69!2j Fax~3l5/S68-3087 E-mail: eruolnow@\'cc:.cdu the US and Canada, Wave pro- duces a deep mental and physical state ofrelaxation, while it stimu- lates and integrates several areas of the brain through the combined effect oflight and sound. Frustration levels usu- ally decrease because of increased attention and concentration. It can also train perception abilities by giving a greater control over the mind. According to their web page (http://www .tecmedia.com/ neurotek/ ing les/default.htm ), Wave is now used in general by psychologists and the public for relaxation, curing insomnia, limit· ing phobias, decreasing anxiety, training for sports, and many other areas. With therapeutic goals in mind the software can be used to repro- gram attitudes and establish real- istic goals. In some users Wave can be a valuable supplement for psy- chotherapy. Now all you need to do is net· work the computers and you can join the party without leaving your room and there is no hangover te de!llwith in the morning . ' 1\J-or· I.Jf)_ ~.1.' ~~-~ will be Open Large Three Bedroom Apartement for Rent! Conveniently Located on University Place. ·Phone· Home • (518)674·5820 Work • (518)474-9615

UNION STUDENTS EMBARKONA TURKISH ADVENTURE by Reuel Daniels Staff Writer by Michelle Tham Features Editor This Saturday, January 17th, Chad Kimball and Kevin Solimeno will be traveling to An, kara, Turkey to participate in an engineering contest along with stu, dents from col'leges aU over the U.S. at the Middle Eastern Tech, been working under the guidance of Professors and advisors Traver and Boucint:::ll who ran this pro- gram last year. It is fairly new pro- gram and tlley are still trying to perfect it in many ways. The students have also been working via internet with the three Turkish students in order to pick the best design possible. The fi- nal design they decided to use was the Turkish students idea and now it is up ,to Kimball and Solimeno to build and deliver a working model. Six weeks. Apparently, time moves at an altogether different pace during winter break. The initial -comfort of being home is a w~rm and fa- miliar feeling. Considering the first thing we come horne to is Thanks- giving and a dinner table covered in turkey, stuffing and other fes- tive delights, it's easy to feel a wave of relaxation in that first week back. However, unless. you were lucky · enough to have SC()red a tropical tan on vacation whll the family or ' , nical University. into a fight with your parents be- The two senior engineering stu, cause they want you to get up be- dents are ta.king part o£ a program fore noon an<! <lo something with called International Virtual Design your life. · Studio where they design and con· So, at that breaking point, it's , struct a project that they will be time to come back to lovely Union using .in the upcoming contest. and rejoin in tlle festivities of col- KimbaU and Solimeno were lege life. paired with three students from Funny tiling is, once we return Turkey in mid-September with there is this funny readjustment · whom they have been correspond- period where no one can bear to ing via intemet. say hello to anyone else and the Their goal is to build a \Ladder dorm walls make your face itch. Crosser,\ which involves the use Home sounds I ike a wonderful of a three part ladder and a remote idea again and parties the first controlled robot which will cross spent a few weeks racing down snowy slopes, winter break gets old pr.etty fast. Days feel like years and you suddenly ob- tain a queer attachment to Ricki Lake and Jerry Springer. Thursday night televi- r=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=l w e e k e n d the ladder and pick up .some disks back are sim- · at the other side and theA return According to Solimeno and Kimball, \to visualize this project you need to picture a ladder that starts at ground level, goes up at a 45 degree angle for I meter, then across 1 meter parallel to the ground and then back down a meter at a 45 degree angle,\ The robot they have designed will traverse the ladder by pulling it self along with an arm, it will then pick up the disks and return back across the structure. t;;'B ut anyway, for some reason you .have als(} Jost the ability to use t1 computer, read for m\re titan a 141f:z-minute time· span and/or communi- c~~;,te intelligibly witlr professors. \ ply a mess. with the disks back over the lad- Food in the der. dining halls is This may seem like an easy task, making you butthere are many constraints that queasy and Kimball and Solimenohave had to apparently work with. The ladder must be a it's doing the certain size and a certain width. same thing to They are not allowed to drive the the girl next robot with wheels on the ladder to you be- and there are also time and weight cause her din- constraints to deal with. ner consists Kimball and Solimeno have Kimball and Solimeno are both looking forwardto this contest as well excited abouta chance to visit Turkey. The other important as- pects of this project is that they have worlced in conjunction with students via tile internet on the design and construction of the project. Right now they are busy putting the final touches on their design and making other final preparations for their trip. 1----~----~----~ offourpieces Torrid Affairs Weekly sion, sadly, becomes the absolute highlight of your \¥eeL Besides workirag at some Ba- . nana Republic-Gap-Structure- ·.···-·'\\\·······-··.:·• esque retail store, there isn't much for us trimester kids to occupy ourselves with duri-ng the vacation. The majority of our friends are still enjoying the indeJ)endence of col- lege life while we sit quietly at home with grimacoes on our faces. Listening to Mom and Dad at the dinner table tell us how we should take better care of Clurse lves or ask us what we are doing at every 15- minute interval o·f tile day isn't exactly the rnost enjoyable expe- rience. Obviously I've I ived away from home for a long ell()ugll time now to be able to safely get to work and back without killing myself along the way. I don't think that my par- ents have figured that one out yet. It's also highly irritating to realize that you can't ope11 the front door and just go for a walk without fully reporting your pla11s, destination and time of retunn to all family members. And of course, at some point during this lovely break,. the irri- tation factor has neached a maxi- mum level. Anythi11g that anyone does, no matter hovv trivial sets you on edge and drives you to extreme measures. You find yourself slamming the door in your little brother's face because he wants to know ifhecan use your walkm an. You start screaming at some random neigh- bor throwing snowl>al1s onto your front yard. You feel the need to get of lettuce and some str!ltegically placed chickpeas. Wait, I forgot, that's just another thing you have to get used to back at school: the 'ever- so-lovely skinny contest. But anyway, for some reason you have alsol<Jst the ability to use a computer, read for more than a L4Yz·minute time span and/or communicateiutelligibly with pro- fessors. Tllese talents usually re- surface som.ewhere around 3'd week, so do11 't worry. Well, we're back now and be- sides the discornfort of a mud- laden campus and the absence of the cozinessofhome, things aren't so bad. The N:ott still looks gor- geous at sunset and it's nice to be able to have !winkies and Moun- tain Dew for breakfast. I did mis~ rny school friends, since thery at:tuaJiy have a clue as to what is going on in my life. And they don't look at me with that dis- interested \l'm-only-:pretending - I-care·to-Iisten \gaze that lseemed to find one too many times on my nome friends' faces. Ah yes, a!ld I no longer have a bedtime or a scheduele that re- volves aroun<l the fact that my kid brother feels the need to wake me up at 6:30am on the weekends by jumping up a11d down repeatedly at the foot of my bed. That is al- ways a wonderful addition to my Saturday momiltgs. And I suppose I will admit that my brain was g.rowing a little stag- nant over breal< and a hit of men- tal stimulation has done me some good. Plus, I can watch movies for free and that i!;. a definite bonus. A Column Bordering on the Brink of Sarcasm (In This Paper? Nab ... ) by Mike DeMicco News Editor to see throughout our nation. This week however, Union does get my inaugural run, so here it goes... H()W could some of the Most people don't consider me brightest planners in the region a pessimist . .\ well .. they might but possibly rniss tile fact that this that is beside the point. I like to wonderful new schedule we have think ofmyselfasarealistand that been granted would overload the is why I occasionally burst capacities of every single dining people's bubbles of grandeur and facility on this campus, especially hope. when just about every student on All of this campus voiced aside, I look at .------~----~-- that point time_ my role here at l- k and time again Union to be I o_o at my before it was someone who implemented? informs. I have role here at It think it is fair tried to do this to say that we through my po- T Tnl•On tO he were all hood- sition as Gen- V J winked (SAT eral Manger at word here) be- WRUC., but I SOmeone cause the truth have found that of the matter is, myjobasNews WhO in~'ormS. the planners Editor for the \.! • that gave this Concordy is blessing of a much more apt schedule to us in reaching the Union community. knew full well what they were do- My column, \Torrid Affairs ing. Weekly\ plans to bring out tile It makes perfect logic if one was truths 1hat are so aptly masked by to look at th.e track record the ad- the people who run our environ· ministration has when it comes to ment. making money off ofthe students. This is not to say that every week is going to be about Union and the cornucopia of conspiracies it offers journalists, but I ·will try to uncover many that we neglect ... the conclusion ·of this column· can be found on page 15. -:.

···Concordy This Wleek by Mkhelle Tham Features Editor Six weeks.. Apparently, time moves at an altogether different pace during winter break. The initial c<>mfort of being home is a warm and fa- miliar feeling. Considering the first thing we come home to is Thanks- giving and a dinner table c<Jvered in turkey, stuffing and other fes- tive delights. it's easy to feel a wave of relaxation in that first week back. However, unless you were lucky enough to have scored a tropical tan on vacation with the farn i ly or into a fight with your parents be- cause they want you to get up be- fore noon aHd do something with your life. So, at that breaking point, it's time to co~ne back to lovely Union and rejoin in the festivities of col- lege life. Funny thing is, once we return there is this funny readjustment period where no one can bear to say hello to anyone else and the dorm walls make your face itclL Home sounds like a wonderful idea again and parties the first weekend spent a few weeks rae ing down snowy slopes, winter break gets old pretty fast. Days feel like years and you suddenly ob- tain a queer attachment to Ricki Lake and Jerry Springer. Thursday night televi- \But anyHJay, for some back are sim- ply a mess. Food in the dining halls is making you queasy and apparently it's doing the same thing to the girl next to you be- cause her din- ner consists of four pieces reasfJn you have a/s() lost t!Je ability to use a computer, read for more tit an a 14lh-minute time span and!tJr communi- cate intelligibly witl1 professors. \ sion, sadly, becomes the absolute highlight of your week. Besides working at some Ba- nana Republic-Gap-Stmcture- esque retail store. there isn't much for us trimester kids to occupy ourselves with during the v2tcatior:~. The majority of our friends are stH l enjoying the independence of col- lege life while we sit quietly at home with grimaces on our faces. Listening to Mom and Dad at the dinner table tell us how we should take better care of ourselves or ask oflettuce and some strategically placed chickpeas. Wait, I forgot, that's just another thing you have to get used to back at school: the ·ever- so-lovely skinny contest. But anyway, for some reason you have also lost the ability to use a computer, read for more than a 14Y2-minute time span andfor communicate intelligibly with pr()- fessors. These talents usually re- surface somewhere around J<d week, so d<ln 't worry. nion Engineer ... · ....... - .. · Students Travel to Turkey us what we are doing at every IS- minute interval of the day isn't exactly the most enjoyable expe- rience. Obviously I've lived awa.y fro1n home for a long enough ti1ne now to be able to safely get to work and back without killing myself along the way. I don't think that my par- Well, we're back now and be- si<les the discomfort of a mud- laden campus and the absence (}f the cozinessofhome, things aren't so bad. The Nott still looks gor- geous at sunset and it's nice to be able to have Twinkies and Moun- tain Dew for breakfast Create Your Own Concordy Article Take a . • ents have figured that one out yet. , Superficiality Test! . It's also highly irritating to realize that you can't open the front door and just go for a walk withellt fully reporting your plans, destination and time of return to all family PlanetCHas · ._.':... Returned • ncerntng. phy members. And of course, at some point during this lovely break, tile irri- tation factor has reached a maxi- , mum level. Anything that anyone does, no matter how trivial s~ts you on edge and drives you to e\treme measures . You fi11d yourself slamming the door in your little brother\~ face because he wants to know if he can usc your walkman. You start screaming at some random neigh- bor throwing snowballs onto your front yard. You feel the need to get I did miss my school friends, since thery actually have a clue as to what is going on in my life. And they don'tlook at me with that dis- interested ''l'm-only-pretending - !-care-to-listen\ gaze that I seemed to find one too many times on my home friends' faces. Ah yes, and I no longer have a bedtime or a scheduele that n- volves around the fact that my kid brother feels the need to wake me up at 6:30am on the weekends by jumping up and down repeatedly at the foot of my bed. That is al- ways a w<:>nderful addition to my Saturday lllomings. And I supp()se I will admit that my brain was growing a little stag- nant over break and a bit of men- tal stimulation has done me some good. Plus, I can watch movies for free and that is a definite bonus. UNION STUDENTS EMBARK ON A TURKISH ADVENTURE by Reuel Daniels Staff Writer This Saturday, January 17th, Chad Kim baa and Kevin Solimeno will be traveling to An- kara. Turkey to participate in an engineering contest along with stu- dents from colleges all over the U.S. at the Middle Eastern Tech- nical University. The two senior engineering stu- dents are taking part of a program called lntemation al Virtual Design Studio where they design and con- struct a project that they will be using in the upcoming contest. Kimball and So())imeno were paired with three students from Turkey in mid-September with whom they have been correspond- ing via intemet. Their goal is to build a \Ladder Crosser,\ which involves the use of a three part ladder and a remote controlled robot which will cross the ladder and pick up some disks at the other side and then return with the disks back over the lad- der. This may seem like an easy task, but there are many constraints that Kimball and So lim eno have had to work with. The ladder must be a certain size an<! a certain width. They are not allOlwed to drive the robot with wheels on the ladder and there are alsD time and weight constraints to deal with. Kimball and Solimeno have been· working under the guidance of Professors and advisors Traver and Boucinell who ran this pro- gram last year. It is fairly new pro- gram and they are stHI trying to perfect it in many ways. The students have also been working via internet with the three Turkish students in order to pick the best design possible. The fi- nal design they decided to use was the Turkish studeuts idea and now it is up to Kimball and Solimeno to build and deliver a working model. According to Solimeno and Kimball, \to visualize this project you need to picture a ladder that starts at ground level, goes up at a 45 degree angle for I meter, then across I meter parallel to the ground and then back down a meter at a 45 degree angle.\ The robot they have designed will traverse the ladder by pulling it self along with an ann, it will then pick up the disks and return back across the structure. Kimball and Solimeno are both looking forward to this contest as well excited about a chance to visit Turkey. The other important as- pects of this project is that they have worked in conjunction with students via the internet on the design and construction of the project. Right now they are busy putting the final touches on their design and making other final preparations for their trip. Torrid Affairs Weekly A Column Bordering on the Brink of Sarcasm (In This Paper? Nab ... ) by Mik(! DeMicco News Editor Most people d()n't consider me a pessimisL welL they might but that is beside the point. I like to think of myself as a realist and that is why I occasion ally burst people's bubbles. of grandeur and hope. to see throughout our nation. This week however, Union does get my inaugural run, so here it goes... How could some of the brightest planners in the region possibly miss the fact that this wonderful new schedule we have been granted would overload the capacities of every single dining facility on this campus, especially when just about every student on campus voiced All of this aside, I look at my role here at Union to be someone who informs. I have tried to do this through my po- sition as Gen- eral Manger at WRUC, but I have found that my job as News Editor for the Concordy is much more apt ..----------------, tllat point time I look at my role here at Union to be someone who informs. and time again before it was implemented? It think it is fair to Gay that we were all hood- winked (SAT word here) be- cause the truth ofthe matter is, tile planners tllat gave this blessing of a L_ ___________ __J schedule to us in reaching the U11ion community. My column, \Torrid Affairs Weekly\ p tans to bring out the truths that areS(). aptly masked by the people who mn our environ- ment. This is not t() say that every week is going tQo be about Union and the comuC()pia of conspiracies it offers jouma lists, but I will try to uncover many that we neglect knew full well what they were do- ing. It makes perfect logic if one was to look at the track record the ad- ministration has when it comes to making money off of the students. .•. the conclusion of this column can be found 011 page 15.

.;·::·-. '· -.'· • • • H • ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING•MECHANICAL ENGINEERING,• B INESS ANALYSI \Must p1esent vobd college 10 a! t~ket Window Off~r not valid w11h any o.ther discounts. Wilen something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And thot•s the level of tedmo!ogy you'll experience ot Raytheon. Raytheon hos formed o new technological superpower-.Raytheon Sysciems Compcmy, composed of four maior technolo.gkol gionts: Raytheon Eledrc.nk Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems ond Hughes Aircroft. The new Roytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new gro11nd. Make tfleir mark. At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and yo~r career-to 1he highest possible level. You'll toke it lo the Nth. We'll be visiting your compvs soon. Contact r<~ur· career plocemenl offite now to schedule on interview, or check out our web:Site at www.royjobs.com. If you ore unable to meei with us, please send your res1.1me to: Rayineon Staffing, P.O. Bo~ c655 474, MS-201, Dollos, TX 75265. We h<Jve many exc:iting opportunities uvoilable and we would like to talk to you. Ski and Ride Stratton Monday through Friday (non-holiday) for soo/o .. vrith your off valid college ID. -·-·-·---·----........._..MO .. OM----··•••••••\_ ..... -·--------__. Plus, get $5 off: weekends and hobdays. For special discounts visit Stratton's HOT DEALS page on our website.

• • • ATH • ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING • MECHANICAL ENGINEERING• BUSINESS ANALYSI 'Must present v61id college 10 at hcket Window Offer n(}t vafod w•th any other diSCounts. When something is too extreme for words, it's. to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience ot Raytheon. Raytheon has formed Q new technological superpower- Raytheon Sy:;lems Company, composed ot fovr major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic Sy~ !ems, Raytheon E. Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems. and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limd. And we're looking for engineers who wont to push the envelope. Break new ground Make their mark. At Raytheon, you'll toke technology- and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your compu~ soon. Contact your career placement oHice now to ~chedule an interview, or check out our website at www.royjobs.com. If you ore unable to meet with us, please send your resume to: Raytheon Staffing, PO. Box 655 474, MS-201. Dollos, TX 75265. We hove many exciting opportunities ovailable and we would like to lolk to you. Ski and Ride Stratton Monday through Friday (non-holidty) for soo/o if* with your 0 valid college lD. Plus, get $5 off' weekends and holidays. For special discounts visit Stratton's H()T DEALS pagt on our website. '\ .. , . ' . · . .,. :.· ........ \. . CJitjjftet!f!S . :- ' ' . . . ~ ..... -.' • ~. ,. ' < ' •• ·is•.··•~l>ro~d.to.·•.bffer. UrtionFsfudents a 1 oo/o l5i~~dtiht for lunch or . dinner.· f!e~i'tlielunch . . ~~~;~,:~s#:Our :·.(:.:oortifo:ftable · ... ·.·.: < ~--~ -. -' .

·''··' BEAUTIFUL DISASTERS Superficiality in Your Own Backyard Well, the days of freedom at Union College's newspaper are now over. With a new hard-line attitude in place, the bickering and in fighting that was present will no longer be tolerated. And so at the new and improved Concordiensis, articles about nothing have gone the way of1lle five million-dollar Seinfeld episodes. What does this mean to yoll the Union College student. It means that every week the Featmes section will cover events and people that you the stu~ dent body want to know and read about. Now s.ince I don't even pre- tend to know what should be fea- tured, I leave it up to you the reader. And so I present to you \create your own article.\ Create your own article is a new break th~ough in newspaper technology. It allows the reader whether male or female, to make the newspaper reading activity in- teractive. Hell, everything else to- day is interacHve so why not your school newspaper. How does this work do you ask? The principle is much the same as the Mad Lib's that we use to do as kids. How- ever, instead of filling in blanks with words that you pick, I give you the words to use and the idea for the article and then you write it. See how simple that is. Now be- fore you say this is stupid, for any- one out there who actually writes an article, send it to me at Mail Box 1975. The best one will get pub- lished and win a prize. So without further ado, here is the first Create Your Own Article. If you the Union College student body can write a success- ful article using these words and ideas, then I can find out what you the readers want. President Hull's Union Adventure President Hull Schenectady Albany Dance Floor Beanie Babies Introduction to Economics Movies in the campus center Husky 1 0 Gallon Wastebasket Liners Ricki Lake Dave Letterman Casual Sex Common Lunch period · Fly 92.3 A&F Baseball Hats Friends with Perks Best Night Ever Well, good luck to you all! And most of all, have fun. Be creative. by Matt Aronowitz Stafl Writer I love the way everyone com- ments about people. \People at this school are Close- minded.\\ People here are justtoo cliquey.\ All this is_ a generalization. It's not just at this school, though. How many times have you heard the term, \the average American?\ Does anyone know one of these average Americans? I certainly don'tknow anyone that believes everything they see on TV, or gets their view of society by strictly reading the tabloids. I don't know anyone who actually believes that they are the people who started traffic, by slowing down to look at the remains of a car accident. ----------------------------------------1 Nobody believes that they are Jon T:apper 's Not s· ·o Mt.ld one ofthe average Americans. . · · • • . . Either l haven't gotten a dose of \real\ Hfe yet, or this mythical Comm~ntary On Current E -.:re·ntS creaturetrulydoesn'texist. Idon't ·- '~ know, maybe somewhere in the Midwest, there's a city full of av- erage Americans. by Jon Tapper Contributing Writer pus has a drinking problem, they sionalbaseball players go. He was should spend a weekend at a agoodcommunityand family guy. Kennedy outing. I don't think they And then he does this. I don't have have any good qualities. They are a problem with drinking, but I do I spent a lot of. time this week bad politicians, really stupid, and have a problem with drinking and thinking about life, nothing spe- they arejustbadpeople in general. driving. cific,just life in general. I can't think of one decent one in The man is making over six mil- l don't know what happened to that whole clan. lion dollars a year. I think that he me over the break, but I just seem Being a proud Massachusetts can afford to call a cab. to be more appreciative of the resident, I spentagooddealoftime In my valuable opinion, things around rne. I needed some- fall term talking baseball with all Chumbawamba appears to be place to tell people about the prob- of you lovely Yankee fans out catching up to Hanson as the most I ems of the world, my problems, there. At some point during one overplayed, annoying music group and just a place to offer a few F===============J ever. They have one good song, helpful hints. So I decided that I \In my valuable opinion, only one, must it be played over wanted to write an article in this and over and over again? And I fine publication. There you have Chumhawamha appears still haven't figured out if it, a little bit of useless back- to be catching up to Hanson is three boys or three ground information. Let's get on Hanson as the most girls yet. Note to Hanson--go with the article. drinking and then go skiing. I just want to give a quick overplayed, annoying l really think that the world wamingorreminderto skiers out music group ever.\ would be a better place without there, especially if you are a ce- those three. lebrity. The world lost Michael Well that about does it for me Kennedy on the slopes, and then of many heated Red Sox/Yankees this week So keep watching the Sonny Bono. discussions, I made it a point to say news, the campus, and the world. I can deal with life without both that not only was Mo Vaughn a. Because if something happens, I of them. But these two events great player on the field, but he will probably make fun of it. And would make me a little bit hesitant was also a great person off the if someone does something really to rush out to the slopes. I am not field, too. stup·id. I will let them know about saying this to setthe stage for some And then I would make fun of it. Hey, I'm a writer; it's my job. awful tragedy, its just food for Yankees who had drug problems And since I am so perfect, why thought, thafs all. or who were on trial for rape, such shouldn't it be me who is doing The Kennedy clan. as: Darrell Strawberry, Doc the criticizing. Am I the only one on this cam- Gooden, Mark Whiten, etc ... And I will leave you with a quote that pus that thinks that they are a thenlastweek,MoVaughnhadto lgotinafortunecookieduringthe bunch of idiots. Seriously, I have get himself arrested for driving last week of break. It said: \Ev- met individual people who are under the influence. eryone agrees you are the best.\ smarter than the whole clan put I always thought ofMo Vaughn It was truly the perfect fortune together. Pe<Jple think this cam- as real intelligent as far as profes- for me. You may wonder where I'm going with this.- Well, uh, umm, I thought l was trying. to make a point somewhere in here. Anyway, I came up with a self- test to see if you're a superficial person. The correct answers will appear in the Concordy next week. (Actually they won't.) t. Yvu're walking to the col- lege center to get some Fro- Yo. You see someone that you haven't seen since last term. As you approach this person, you casually ask, \howwuz yer break?\ You feel that this greeting is: (A) An original, thoughtful conversation starter, and you truly care· how their break was, and would really like to get into a conversation about it. (B} An original, thoughtful comment. Then you proceed to walk right by the person without a word. (C) Not original, but hey how else can you make small talk. (D) Something that doesn't merit a response. 2. You wake up from an after- noon nap, and dinner is almost over. · You run to the dining ha II, and suddenly, you remember that you came alone. You call all your friends and nobody can meet you to eat. Do you: (A) Go home and. starve. There is no way you'll be seen • . I eattng a one. (B) Go inside and try to find somebody.· If you do, great.· If not, so what: (C) Wait outside until you're knight in shining ar- mor appears. (D) Go home and smoke crack. There is no way you'll be seen eating alone. 3. You and your friends are having a conversation. The most discussed topic between you and your friends is: (A) Other people's lives. (B) Your life. (C) Their lives. (D}B and C. (E) Sex, drugs, and rock 1 n' roll. And oral sex. Along with Band C. ·4. You find that you are really attracted to a guy or girl who is not a part of your social circle. This person decides to ask you out. You say no because: (A) You're not drunk at the moment, and you just can't get with anyone if you're not drunk (B) \Randomly hooking up is the only way to go.\ (C) Inter-clique relatioll- ships just don't work. (D) No m~ans yes. (E) No means maybe (F) Yes means no. 5. You are in your room all by yourself. You're really not do- ing anything at all. You think about: (A) Nothing. (B) Something. (C) Everything. (D) How bored you are at that moment. (E) What you're friends are doing. (F) What the hell you're going to do when you gradu- ate. (G) A, D, and E. 6. You wake up in someone else's bed, naked, with a hang- over, and an ugly fat person next to you. You: (Answers deleted) 7. You finish reading this ar- ticle. You think that I am: (A) An idiot. (B) Not an idiot. (C) A victim of my own thoughts. Or just a plain vic- tim. (D) ~'Whatever. I don't even know this person. What a dumb question.\ (E) Self-centered and su- perficial. I wri the ch< thil cor rot art ma liar all I d wh tak rus Sw Mco me I'rr siv sty art! flo stii wo spc: wh me an: pee rna · I c: J ac to tha

SoMETHING T,o TALK ABouT FOR 1998 p I usually dqn 't have a hard time writing articles for the paper. In the past it never took that long to choose something that l' d been thinking about; sit down at the computer, make a up a few cor- roborating quotes, and type the artiCle-. we're talking an hour, maybe two for an especially bril- liant piece. Which isn't to say that all my pieces, no wait, everything I do isn't brilliant, but just that when they are especially so, they take a little more time. You can't rush Sophocles, you can't msh Swift, you can't rush Method Man, and likewise, you can't rush me. If writers are like bombs then, I'm like a thermonuclear explo- sive; waging war with myunjque styles, my adjectives, pronouns, articles ... wh.atever, as lQng as it's flowing from my dome, they all sting like hollow tip ... that's my word. Thanks for allowing me a little space to reaffirm, this writers block thing is really getting to me. See, last time I had this big a lack o' subjects, It was freshman year, when I was just a little Union sho·rty. I was worried; what if I never come up with another topic to dissect and analyze with my verbal mathematics? My solution was to let fly with an ego reaffir- ~ mation which you all witnessed in'\ the previous paragraph. Now re• affirmed, I cook myself up some tea, and continue with a whole new crazy outlook. The reason I haven't been inthis mental condition since fall term freshman year is because I almost feel like I'm new here again. I was in Greece last term, where I spent some time relax.ing on topless Meqiterranean beaches .... the sun shinedevery day ... there were three hour siestas ... there were more than two bars. I won't dwell on it, but let's say the transition back to Union (win- tertenn, ofcourse)has been rough. It's not exactly like a new Jllace; a~ always, there's a least a l!alfa dozen examples of dumb 11nion sh*t, each worthy oftheir:oVIn ar- ticle, which I could write about. But I find that I don't care about as many of them as I once might have,. and that's why I don '.t k~ow where I should aim my verba.) ar- tillery rounds. I don't think I'm getting ge-ner- ally more cynical, just seleectl-vely concerned. I mean, it concerns me that Res Life is training a stu<lent \I don't think 1 'm getting generally more cynical, just selectively· concerned. \ police force to live in the dorms where R.A.s might once l:tave lived. I can't count how Jllany times I heard president Hut! ,give that line that went somethi1tg like \I believe that if you're old e11ough to vote, and be drafted, the11 you should be able to drink .. .I'm not going to be policing the dorms.\ Whata greatguy ... right, Now Res- Life has RA' s sniffmg under doors for 'noxious odors', carding stu- dents who drink in their own rooms, and pouring out booze pur- chased with hard earned money by minors. Giving students that much power to be dickheads is like beg- ging all those kids who used to get beat up on the playground, or whitewashed in the snowball fight to enlist in the new student police force. R.A.s can be great people, I have a couple of friends who have served in the trenches QfWest or Davidson. Great people don't want to seize and pour out other student's hooch. If the position ofRA con- tinues to develop as it has recently, Res Life should consider adding a • couple of boxes to check off on their application forms such as: \Do you currently suffer from or have been treated for a persecution complex,\ \Do you have any friends (because soon you won't),\ \I feel the Gestapo was largely misunderstood,\ \Rodney King was a whiner,\ and \I like pigs, they're actually quite clean.\ Anyway sh*t like that concerns me,. but not enough to write about. SNAPPED .. , A Union Photography Student Chronicles His Artistic Experiences by Heath Fradkoff Contributing Writer vide so easily. I feel I've been able to I·earll l'ots about the human ex~ perience just frmn shooting. Granted, much of what I believe I take pictures. It's my gig. It'.s I have taken away from these ex- what I do. There's little 1 enjoy periences comes from my own in- more than going into Boston terpretationsofthepeopleandsitu- anned with a camera and meeting ations ·I have dealt with- purely my people. ~here's something quite own opinion. So, ifyou think I'm magical about making pictures that full of it, that's OK. I'm little more · I can't quite explain. than an amateur photographer, to Many people, when faced with be sure, but I feel like I've come a camera, immediately are willing away with some redeemable stuff. to give something of themselves Let me know what you think. thatthey would notordinarily pro- The most important thing you ....... must realize is that the camera <loes indeed lie. Take this guy, for insta11ce. I never got his name. I was slloot- ing in Harvard Square, Cambridge and he jumped in frontofmyc:am- era and begged me to take his pic- ture. He was animated and silly and a little over- zealous at the chance to have his pic- ture made but, of course, I i agreed. I mean, hey, free subject. 1 didn't even have to work to get this one. Anyway, as soon as I brought my hand up to the focus, he settled down, his face stiffened, and he assumed tile de- fensive., you.th-angst-orier~tated pose you see here. The ch11racter in the picture is quite different from the one that I had ittitially met. What ended up on the film was not him but what he ga \'e me instead; a repreS\entation ()f the persona he had chosen to tale on. I think we all do that to some ex.tent, don't we? Not just in front of a camera, but in our dailyHves. How often do we catch our- . selves saying or doing som~thing that we later ask, \Where the hell did that come from?\ How often do we find ourselves vveilring clothes that may not be the most comfortable or the warme-st just because it falls in line with scrne- thing we are trying to tell others about who we are, or would like to be. It's very rare that we are honest with ourselves about who we are. Something that I have realized as of late is that so much of how we prise. identify ourselves is tied up in moments· I ike this, when we freeze in a pose which isn't exactly true, that when we try to scrape it all away and get back to what is at our center, what we find is al- most al· ways a sur- This is what I learned from the two people I met making the pic- ture- the one who approached me and the one I took away. rm sure I'm not telling you anything you don't already know, but I think it's helpful to see a good, solid ex- ample like this. Given tile right moment, the camera has the abil- ity to reach out and capture the true essence of an individual This, of course, was not one of those mo- ments. In realizing it, however, we manage to learn far more than we've been given. That's an essen- tial part of the beauty ofphotogra~ phy. I mean it. Let me know what you think of this attic/e. - Box 641 - ftadkofh@jtlol.ultioll.edll . I live off campus, I never deal with RAs, andto be honest, after I leave I don't care ifRes-Life issues RAs tear gas and billy clubs. I'm just surprisednone of you RAs and stu- dents living in all those dorms out there don't do something about that kind Qfbullsh*t. It's not my problem. Now that remarkably stupid new schedule they cooked up .. .I could write about that...for pages. I didn't get into any courses from Greece, so to further ease my tran- sition back to Union, 1 had to pick out three classes and start taking them immediately. You know what l noticed from my little ex- ercise in registration?' Everything is offered at the same time; now that nearly two hours of prime class time have been removed from the day, all interesting, re- quired, or easy classes have been scheduled for the same time pe- riod. I picked out three great classes and then found out they were all at 1 :30 on Tuesday/Timrs- day. Now that's some bullsh*t I could write about. Next Week: Check out my first real topic for the 98, the new 'quote of the week', and my re- flections on someone like Mother Theresa, only shorter. continued from page 12 ... Torrid Affairs Weekly Does it make sense that in these money strapped times Dutch Hol- low would all of a sudden get a face l.ift that removes all remnants of its pasL no, not unless they were expecting some new revenue. (Fer the answer to this refer to the line before the last sentence) Oh of course... duh... the stu- dents I forgot... silly me. By cre- ating this new schedule, we as stu- dents are forced to stand in even longer lines for meals we have al- ready paid the school for. We all know that we would prefer to eat at Dutch Hollow or the Skellar, so that is ex.actly what we do instead of waiting. We go downstairs or across the field and spend our declining bal- ance. This way, they get that money even faster while they sit back and spend the money we did not use by eating at either West or Upper Class. Just maybe, when we run out of our validine, we will run upstairs to dining serviCes a put more on. Our parents won't notice it on a $30,000 bill, what's a few dollars ... right? What's one more ciga- rette ... or piece of pie ... right? Only thing is, we get the cancer and all of the fat while they get our money!!! We need to be aware of these things. (Refer to Frank's Article) This term is over, we did not make a big enough stink .. but next term maybe we can get back to the old schedule that all of us wanted anyway. In conclusion, to the planners who we owe such a great debt to for this fine deed, we should all say thank you, and please do not go out your way again for us ... no seriously don't.

.;.·-; \':. .... • ·' .;, . ' 1 ' \ ··- / Sculptures and Dancers and Bears ... Oh My! Compiled by Mora Whitbold A.& E Writer Union College presents a month long exhibition of recent sculpture by Anthony Cafritz. This exhibi- tion runs from January 5 thru Feb- ruary 5, 1998, with an opening re- ception on January 16 from 4:30 to 6:30. Stork, a collabrotive perfor- mance piece with Cafritz, Meg Cottam, Katie Watson, Noel Thomsoll, and Joel Giguere will be performed beginning at 5: 15 p.m. on the night of the opening. The exhibition wil run in the Atrium and the performance will take place in the Performing Arts Studio, both in The Arts Building on the Union College campus. Cafritz, a sculptor from North Bennington, VT, was the adjunct sculpture professor for the falll997 term. Cafritz's work has been shown extensively throughout the United States including, the Shirley Fetterman Gallery, NYC, the Uni- versity of Albany Gallery group show curated by Dan Cameron of the New Museum, NYC and, most recently, at the Muse Gallery in Philadelphia, PA. Cafritz has also received a Vermont Arts Council opportunity grant for his recent work and Best In Show for his piece at the University at Albany Gallery. Stork is a collaborative effort between sculptor Cafritz, lighting designer Joel Giguere, musician No.el Thompson, and dancers Meg You Jrave seen t/1e hear on campus. Now understand it. (File I TC) Cottam and Katy Watson. Cottam and Watson move through, under and over with a landscape created by Cafritz oflinoleum squares, fold- ing fables? and suspended half mannequins to Thomson's original score and the lightiog ·ofGuigere. The Union College Arts Build- ing is located on the Union Col- lege Campus in Schenectady, NY. The Atrium Gallery and the Per- forming Arts Studio are located in the Union College Arts Building. Call3 88-6714 for information. Painter D,onNice Visits Union by Rebecca Tbyresson A &E Writer Union College was proud to host painter Don Nice this past week. Mr. Nice C!lrne to the campus on . Tuesday, January 13. He held a public and free of charge demon- stration of his own personal wa- tercolor techniques. This event was made possible through Union's Walter C. Baker Fine Arts Lecture Series endowment. Nice's work is centered on the landscape. With the use of figural and still life elements he achieves a framework representing the forces of nature, echoing a Native American approach. In speaking ofhis own work, Mr. Nice said the intent is \to reintroduce common objects without an illusionist ground or any rational presence .. The objects only related to them- selves.\ One commentat.or, speak- ing of Nice's work, said that \here's a painting about civiliza- tion, about cultivation, about what's right.\ For about forty years, Nice has been an active American Realist painter. He has had the pleasure of having his work shown in many exhibitions throughout the coun- try and abroad. Mr. Nice's work is among public and private collec- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d~~~~~~~~~~~~~h~~~~~~~~~d~~tionsfuclud~gilie~itneyM~ Union Stu ents on t e Roa seum,TheMetropolitanMuseum of Art, The Museum of Modem Art by Gina LaSorsa A &E Writer On Saturday, January 1 0 1 h a stage reading of.\Nobody's Gilgul\ by Lois Roisman was performed atthe Schenectady Jewish Community Center. The reading was directed by Lee Rose, director of student activities and theater professor here at Union College. The performance included Union students Kimberly Rohback '00, Stacey Elise Caplin '98, Amy Rilling '98, and Keith Hamilton '98, as well as others from the local community. The setting for the stage reading was particularly interesting. The purpose behind it was ex- plained by Lee Rose after the per- formance. The stage was com- posed of two levels with the rebbes on the upper half and the rest of the cast on the lower portion. This provided a clear distinction betWeen the heavenly people ver- sus the earthly people. After the performance, Rose, Roisman, and the cast in a question and answer session. When the author was asked if she received \information\ while writing the play, Roisman replied that she did indeed receive guidance from the \spirits\. She also added that the play took approximately one year to complete, which surprised many in the audience. The audience was also very im- pressed by Rohback · s Russian ac- cent, which took her a mere two rehearsals to perfect. The viewers were extremely curious as to whether or not Rohback has had experience with theater and ac- cents. The title of the play \Nobody' s Gilgul,\ comes from the Jewish faith's belief that a soul must enter the body of a human being in or- der to complete mitzvahs. Mitzvahs are the tasks that souls must complete inorder to enter the Garden of Eden. Eva, played by Rohback, was a soul from the shtetlc,ttying to enter the body of a contemporary woman, Lily, played by Caplin. The play por- .trays the dichotomy between the roles of conservative Jewish women trying to uphold their faith, and the roles of modern women living in a world of gender equal- ity. The play comes to a conclu- sion that Jewish women of today can find a reconciliation between the two. Personally, I was highly im- pressed by the performance espe- cially since the cast had a limited time frame to workwith. According to Lori Greene '00, \Even though it was not a full stage production, the excellent acting skills and directing allowed the au- dience to believe they were in a fully mounted production as Lois Roisman intended.\ I feel that the message the play attempted to portray was still de- livered despite the lack of formal scenery and stage direction. As my first exposure to a Jewish play, this experience was a positive one. Congratulations to all who per- formed in the reading! I look for- ward to another performance by this cast in the near future. in New York City. His work has also appeared in such countries as Australia, Canada, Holland, and Switzerland. Not only has Mr. Nice achieved fame through the many museums which hold his works, he has completed commissions for Lincoln center, the US Department of the Interior, and XIII Olympic Winter Games at Lake Placid, New Yolk. Mr. Nice has also been a teacher of visual arts since 1960 at such institutions as the Minneapolis School of Art and the School of Visual Arts. He has been an artist in residence at the State Univer- sity of New York at Purchase, Yosemite National Park, Dartmouth College, and the University of Cali- fornia at Davis. He earned his BFA from the University of Southern California and an MFA from Yale University. You can observe his works at an exhibit titled DON NICE: EARTH TOTEMS on view fi\om February 3- March 28, 1998 at Babcock Gal- leries, located at 724 Fifth A venue (at 57 111 Street), New York City.

~-----------.------- ---~------- Oncordy A 1 & Sculptures and Dancers and Bears ... Oh My! Compiled by Mora Whitbold A & E Writer Union College presents a month long exhibition of recent sculpture by Anthony Cafritz. This exhibi- tion nms from January 5 thru Feb- ruary 5, 1998. with an opening re- ception on January 16 from 4:30 to 6:30. Stork, a collabrotive perfor- mance piece with Cafritz, Meg Cottam, Katie Watson, Noel Thomson, and Joel Giguere will be performed beginning at 5:15p.m. on the night of the open in g. The exhibition wil run in the Atrium and the performance will take place in the Performing Arts Studio, both in The Arts Building on the Union College campus. Cafritz. a sculptor from North Bennington. VT. was the adjunct sculpture professor for the fall1997 term. Cafrit:z's work has been shown extensively thr<1ughout the United States including. the Shirley Fettennan Gallery. NYC. the Uni- versity of Alhany Ci<tllery group show curated b) Dan Cameron of the New Museum. NYC and. most recently. at the Muse- Gallery in Philadelphia. PA. Carriu: has also received a Vermont Arts Council opportunity grant for his recent work and Best In Show for his piece at the University at Albany Gallery. Stork is a collaborative effort between sculptor Cafritz. lighting designer Joel Giguere. musician Noel rhornpson, and dancers Meg You llal'e .\'un t/1e bear 011 campus. Now Ullderstmrd it. (File I TC) Cottam and Katy Watson. Cottam and Watson move through, under and over with a landscape created by Cafl·itL ofl in oleum squares. fold- ing fables, and suspended half mannequins to Tllomson 's original score and the lighting of Guigcre. The Union College Arts Build- ing is located on the Union Col- lege Campus in Schenectady. NY. The Atrium Gallery and the Per- forming Arts Studio are located in the Union College Arts Building. Call388-6714 for information. Painter Don Nice Visits ·Union by Rebecca Thyresson A & E Writer Union College was proud to host painter Don Nice this past week. Mr. Nice came to the campus on · Tuesday, January 13. He held a public and free of charge demon- stration of his own personal wa- tercolor techniques. This event was made possible through Union's Walter C. Baker Fine Arts Lecture Series endowment. Nice's work is ceNtered on the landscape. With the use of figural and still life elements he achieves a framework representing the forces of nature, echoing a Native American approach. In speaking ofhis own work. Mr. Nice said the intent is \to reintroduce common objects without an illusionist ground or any rational presence. The objects only related to them- selves.\ One commentator, speak- ing of Nice's work, said that \here's a painting about civiliza- tion, about cultivation, about what's right.\ For about forty years, Nice has been an active American Realist painter. He has had the pleasure ofhaving his work shown in many exhibitions throughout the coun- try and abroad. Mr. Nice's work is among public and private collec- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d~~~~~~~~~~~~~h~~~~~~~~~-d~~ tions including the Whkney ~u- UniOfl Stu ents on t e Roa seum,TheMetropolitanMuseum of Art, The Museum of Modem Art by Gina LaSorsa A & E Writer On Saturday, January I O'h a stage reading of \Nobody's Gilgur· by Lois Roisman was perfonned at the Schenectady Jewish Community Center. The reading was directed by Lee Rose, director of student activities and theater professor here at Union College. The perfonnance included Union students Kimberly Rohback '00, Stacey Elise Caplin '98. Amy Rilling '98.and Keith Hamilton \98 as well as others from the local community. The setting for the stage reading was particularly interesting. The purpose behind it was ex- plained by Lee Rose after the per- fonnance. The stage was com- posed of two levels with the rebbes on the upper half and the rest of the cast on the lower portion. This provided a clear distinction between the heavenly people ver- sus the earthly people. After the performance, Rose, Roisman, and the cast participated in a question and answer session. When the author was asked if she received \'information\ while writing the play, Roisman replied that she did indeed receive guidance from the \spirits\. She also adde<l that the play took approximately one year to complete. which surprised many in the audience. The audience was also very im- pressed by Rohback 's Russian ac- cent. which took her a mere two rehearsals to perfect. The viewers were extremely curious as to whether or not Rohback has had experience with theater and ac- cents. The title of the play \Nobody' s Gilgul.\ comes from the Jewish faith's belief that a soul must enter the body of a human being in or- der to compl~te mitzvahs. Mitzvahs afe the tasks that sou Is must complete in order to enter the Garden of Eden. Eva, played by Rohback, was a soul from the .shtetle, trying to enter the body of a contemporary woman, Lily, played by Caplin. The play por- trays the dichotomy between the roles of conservative Jewish women trying to uphold their faith, and the roles of modem women living in a world of gender equal- ity. The play comes to a conclu- sion that Jewish women of today can find a reconciliation between the two. Personally, I was highly im- pressed by the performance espe- cially since the cast had a I imited time frame to work with. According to Lori Greene '00. \Even though it was not a full stage production, the excellent acting skills and directing allowed the au- dience to believe they were in a fully mounted production as Lois Roisman inte11ded.\ I feel that the message the play attempted to portray was still de- livered despite the lack of formal scenery and stage direction. As my first exposure to a Jewish play, this experience was a positive one. Congratulati()ns to all who per- formed in the reading! I look for- ward to another performance by this cast in the near future. in New York City. His work has also appeared in such countries as Australia, Canada, Holland, and Switzerland. Not only has Mr. Nice achieved fame through the many museums which hold his works, he has completed commissions for Lincoln center, the US Department of the Interior, and XIII Olympic Winter Games at Lake Placid, New York. Mr. Nice has also been a teacher of visual arts since l 960 at such institutions as the Minneapolis School of Art and the School of Visual Arts. He has been an artist in residence at the State Univer- sity of New York at Purchase, Yosemite National Park, Dartmouth College, and the University ofCali- forniaatDavis. HeeamedhisBFA from the University of Southern California and an MFA from Yale University. You can observe his works at an exhibit titled DON NICE: EARTH TOTEMS on view rrom February 3- March 28, 1998 at Babcock Gal- leries, located at 724 Fifth A venue (at 57th Street), New York City. .. : i' j II

t r f y London Company Offers Shakespeare class British rf<pertory companies, Courtesy of Joan Roberts London's West-End and the cut- Execntive Director of TIRe Egg ting edge of the Fringe. The Aquila Theatre Company of Lond()n, with a cast of British ac- tors of the highest caliber, will present a superb rendition of Shakespeare's sweeping political epic, Julius Caesar, on Friday, Feb- ruary 6, 1998 at the Empire Center at the Egg. The production is scheduled for two performances- IOam and 7:30pm. Based in London, England, the Aquila Theatre Company has gained a well earned international reputation as one .of the foremost producers of touring classic the- atre. Founded in I 990 by Peter Meine<:k, the company has won both critical and academic acclaim for its \Vorl< worldwide. It special- izes in presenting fresh and inn 0 ... vative productions of classi.cal drama. Aquila Company members are a multi-talented group of performers with experience in all facets of the conternporary British theatre scene, including the Royal Shakespeare Company, The Royal National Theatre, numerous world Previous Aquila productions have been pres.ented throughout Europe, the United States, and Canada. the company has mounted nine successful tours to North America, perfonning at ever sixty colleges, universities and theatres through- out. The company has received a prizeforDramatic Excellence from the Greek government and two prestigious British Council Tour- ingawards. The Empire Center at the Egg has teamed up with Proctor's Theatre to offer the pub He a Shakespeare Package. The offer consists of one ticket tothe 7:30pm performance ef Julius Caesar and one ticket to the Act- ing Company's performance of Romeo and Juliet at Proctor's The- ateron Tuesday, February W, 1998 at 8pm for a package price of only $30. The package is available through January 30rh and ,can be purchased at either box office. For further in- formation and reservations, con- tact the Empire Center at the Egg Box Office at (518}473-1845. Dance Department Announces Changes Dance Professor M iryam Moutillet excitedly announ.ced some changes in the <lance department here at Union. One important change is the hiringofMarc Weiss, a dancer with the Ellen Sinopoli Dance Company. Weiss vvill betaking the place of Darlene Meyers, Union's ballet instruc- tor for over fifteen years. Meyers has decided to focus her attention on her own dance school and company. Weiss was classically trained in Boston at the North Atlantic Ballet Company and at theCopli Company. Later he danced in New York as the Principal dancer for the Martha Grahm and Alvin Ailey Companies. Weiss will be teaching BalLet I and Ballet IT, both on Thursday evenings. Moutillet will be teaching the Ballet rii class, which will focus on less cl<i.ssical and more contemporary styles. MoutiHet also revealed plans for a Winter Dance Concert to be held March 10 1 \ in the Yulman Theatre. This will be the first time the dance department has used the large theater space. It will allow the dancers the opport11nity to perform in a real theater, complete with a stage and an audience. All students involved in dance practicum will be invited to perform•in the show, which will combine modem dance and theatre. Plans <tre a I so in the work for a danceftheatre workshop. which will be mainly for the non-dancer, interested in integrating movement with per- formance. Moutillet reminds the entire Union community that Guest Artists fre- quently visit the dance classes and all are welcome to attend. This term there are plans for a Flamenco dancer as well as a Chinese traditional dance workshop. The first of these will be on Thursday January 22 from 1:30-3:00. The dance program is working towards creating a dan.ce minor. Any- one interested in making this poc;sible is urged to contact Miryam Moutillet in the dance office. Edie:'SCD.s LPs,.~VIDEOS & CASSBTrES _.:/ Buy, SelL Tr,ade '-\ { ·· · Hard to find titles i . < ~ COs ......................... $7 .. 99 ea. or 21$15 TAPES .................... $2_.:99 ea. or ~5 Se14lct cos ............ ~ ·s3 ea. or 2J$9l MUSIC VIDEOS ...... 2 for $10 ..-;?' ~C~~~~~~~~~Ji!d~~4~)s! Clifton Park, NV1206re (518) 373-9089 Julius Caesar will be petformed at the Empire State Center at The Egg on February 16th. (EC lTC) \\V e Are Your Sisters Contributed by 1-roc.tors Theatre Press Dept. E:xperience a powerful dramati- zati()nofslaverythat touches both the11eartand soul as Proctor's Too pre~e11ts its second production of . the 19'97~ 1998 season, We Are Your Sisters, Friday, January 16, and Sat1.1rday, January 17 at 8:~2 P.M. at the YulmanTheatre. Directed by Darryl V. Jones, We Are Your Sisters, is .inspired by the autltentic words of former black wor11en slaves and their experi- ences before, during and after the CiviilWar. An emotionally spirited dra111a with musical recount and gri])pin.g stories, this production portrays courageous African- American women who endured the struggles and degradation of sla- very and met the challenges of free- dom. Winner ofthe 1996 Audelco Award for Excellence in African- American Theatre, We Are Your Sis- ters has excited, stimulated, enlight- ened, and moved its audiences. This production melds these as- tonishing stories with musi.;; and dance motifs inspired by African and American historical and cul- tural traditions. The result is a pow- erful and memorable theatrical ex- perience that uses the past to speak to contemporary issues of personal struggle, oppression and the mean- ing offreedotn. Critics acclaim WeAre YourSis- ters is\ ... bravura acting with song, chant and dance ... a show of as- tonishing power.\ Tickets for Proctor's Too's, We Are Your Sisters for Friday, Janu- ary 16, and Saturday, January 17, 1998 are $15.00 for adults and $8;00 for students. Tickets are available at the Proctor'sBox Office (518)346-6204 and at the Yulman Theatre Box Of- fice the night ofperf()rmance. This performance is made pos- sible, in part, with public funds from the New York State Council . on the Arts, a State Agency. Me- dia sponsor is Metro[and. Next week Arts and Entertain- ment will feature a st(}ry about this peiformance. Proctors is not a part of Union College, but the editors · feel that it is a good local source of artistic productions.

tl J !' li II !: I· I •' 11 ji t I' i li I 11 r 1: t! ji I !. '· f i I i I. I~ ,. I Arts&: Entertainment London Company Offers Shakespeare Courtesy of Joan Roberts Executive Director of Tl1e Egg The Aquila Theatre Cotnpany of London, with a cast of British ac- tors of the highest caliber. will present a superb rendition of Shakespeare's sweeping political epic, Julius Caesar, on Friday. Feb- ruary 6, 1998 at the Empire Center at the Egg. The production is scheduled for two performances- IOam and 7:30pm. Based in London, England, the Aquila Theatre Com patl)' has gained a well earned international reputation as one ofthe t(m:most producers of touring c lassie the- atre. Founded in !990 by Peter Meineck, the company has won both critical and academic acclaim for its work worldwide. It special- izes in presenting fresh and irmo- vative productions of classical drama. Aquila Company rnember3 are a multi-talented group of performers with experience in all faceto; ofthe contemporary British theatre scene, including the Royal Shakespeare Company. Tht.! Royal National Theatre, numerous world class. British repertory companies, London's West-End and the cut- ting edge of the Fringe. Previous Aquila productions have been presented throughout Europe, the United States, and Canada. The company has mounted nine successful tours to North America, performing at over sixty colleges, universities and theatres through- out. The company has received a prize for Dramatic Excellence from the Greek government and two prestigiot1s British Council Tmtr- ing awards. The Empire Center at the Egg has teamed up with Proctor's Theatre to offer the public a Shakespeare Package. The offer consists of one ticket to the 7:30pm perfommnce of Julius Caesar and one ticket to the Act- ing Company's performance of Romeo and Juliet at Proctor's The- ater on Tuesday, February I 0, 1998 at 8pm for a package price of only $30. The package is available through January 30'\ and can be purchased at either box office. For further in- formation and reservations, con- tact tl1e Empire Center at the Egg Box Office at (518) 473-1845. Dance Department Announces Changes Dance Professor Mirymn Moutillet excitedly announced some changes in the dance departmer1t here at Union. One important change is the hiring ofMarc Weiss, adancenvith the Ellen Sinopoli Dance Compan). Weiss will be taking the place ofDarlene Mt.!ycrs, Union's ballet instruc- tor for over fifteen years. Meyers has decidd to focus her atll:ntion on her own dance school and company. Weiss \\as classically trained in Boston at the North At !antic Ballet Company and at the Copli Company. Later he da.nced in Nt:\V York as the Principal dancer for the Martha Grahm and Alvin Ailey Companies. Weiss will be teaching Ballet I and Ballet II, both on Thursday evenings. M<Jutillet will be teaching the Ballet III class. which VIii! focus on less classical and more contemporary styles. MoutiHet also revealed plans for a Winter Dance Concert to be held March I orh in the Yulman Theatre. This will be the first time the dance department has used the large theater space. It will allow the dancers the opportunity to perform in a real theater, complete with a stage and an audience. All students involved in dance practicum will be invited to perform ·in the show, which will combine modern dance and theatre. Plans an: also in the work for a dance'thcatn: workshop. which will be rna in ly f(Jr the non-dancer. interested in integrating movemeNt with per- formance. Moutillct reminds the entire l Inion conmnmity that Gue~tl\rtists fre- quently visit the dance c las-;cs and all an: v-.elcome to attend. This term there are plans t<.1r a Flamenco dancer as \vel! as a Chinese traditional dance workshop. The first <Jfthese will be on Thursday January 22 from I :30-3 :00. The dance program i' \I (Jrk ing tm1 ards creating a dance minor. Any- one intere~ted in makint: thi~ ro'>~ihle is ur~cd to contact Mir~am Moutillet in the dance office. Edie~s CDs LPs, VIDEOS & CASSETibS Bul.:J, SelL Trade Hard to find titles COs ............ ,. ........... $7.99 ea. or 21$15 TAPES ................ 00 ••• $2.99 ea. or 21$5 Se~Slct COs ............. $3 ea. or 21$5 MUS~C V~DEOS ...... 2 ior $10 \Xc E H'n llLn ~ Curn·nt Vim I ~is & L P!->! Clifton C()!)rJiry .MaUJRout'e 146) CHiton Park, NV 12065 ~ (518) 373-9089 Julius Cal!.mr will be paformed at the Empire State Center at The t.gg on Fi!hruary 16th. (EC I TC) \VV e Are Your Sisters Contributed by Proctors Theatre Press Dept. Fxperit:nce a powerful dramati- zation of slavery that touches b<.Jth the hear1 and soul as Proctor's Too rrest:nts it:, second production of the 1997 -I 998 season, ll'l' .-Ire Your Sisll'l\s. Friday, January 16, and Saturday, January 17 at 8:02 P.M. at the Yulman Theatre. Directed by Darryl V. Jones, We Are }'our Sisters, is inspired by the authentic words of former black women slaves and their experi- ences before, during and after the Civil War. An emotionally spirited drarna with musical recount and gripping stories, this production portrays courageous African- American women vvho endured the struggles and degradation of sla- ver;y and met the challenges of free- dom. Winner of the I 996 Audelco Award for Excellence in African- American Theatre. lf'l' .·Ire }'our Sis- ters has ncitcd. stimulated, enlight- ened, and moved its audiences. This production melds these as- tonishing stories with music and dance motifs inspired by African and American historical and cul- tural traditions. The result is a pow- erful and memorable theatrical ex- perience that uses the past to speak to contemporary issues of personal struggle, oppression and the mean- ing offreedom. Critics. acclaim We Are Your Sis- ters is\' ... bravura acting with song, chant and dance ... a show of as- ton ish ing power.\ Tickets for Proctor's Too· s, We Arc Vour Sislcrs for Friday. Janu- ary 16. and Saturday. January 17, !9<)8 are $15.00 !()r adults and $8.00 for students. Tickets are available at the Proctor\s l3ox OHke (518)346-6~0-l and at the Yulman Theatre Box Of- fice the night ofperformance. This performance is made pos- sible, in part, with public funds from the New York State Council on the Arts, a State Agenc). Me- dia sponsor is Metroland. Next week Arts and Entertain- ment willji:ature a story ahout this petji wmance. Proctors is not a parr of Union College. hill the editors feu/ that it is a good local source uf artistic product ions.

Woes Continue for Dutchmen Home Losses to Brown and Harvard Leave the Hockey Program Winless in '98 by Jonatl!a11 Gastllalter Editor-in-CI1ie[ After playing what second year Head Coach Stan Moore termed the \best 120 minates ofhockey last weekend\ agai11st Princeton and ·· Yale, the Dutc11men,despite losing both games seemed to have learned what was needed to win games in the ECAC. AsMooJ:e stated, \The downside of it was we did not put sixty minutes t()getherto come up with a win in either one of the games.\ Fresh off of a 5-4 hardwplayed loss to the Yale Bul'ldogs, the Dutchmen returned to Achilles Rink to start the second half of their 1998 season against the Brown Bears. The Dutchmen, one of the only teams playingon Friday night due to a tremendous ice stor-m through northern New York and Vermont that fon~ed the cancella- tion of three match-ups, knew that a strong performance against a young Brown team couJd catapult them out of I f 1 hplace in the ECAC. In front of a sizable crowd at Achilles, the Dutchmen opened up with some hard-hitting by the line of senior tri-captain Charlie Moxham and freshmen Clark Jones and Bryant Westerman creating a scoring chancetllirty seconds into the match-up for junior defenseman Mark Will who was camped out in fi'Dnt of the net. Will could not get his stick on .a loose puck and Bear goaltender Jeff Holowaty, who· played well all night letting o11t few rebounds, smothered the puck to thwart the early threat. Uni()n co11tinued tak- ing the body all peri()d ·and con- trolled play for rnuch ()f the first stanza. However, with jl!st 1:18 on the clock, the B;ears brok.e through . and scored on senior goaltender I ,):i. . ..... \?-./'•' Despite a brilliant performance against Harvard, Leeor Shtrom could not clmnge the 3-2 o11ertime loss. (Rick Lederer I TC) Trevor Koenig to give Brown a 1-0 body as they had in the opening lead and take the momentum-and minutes of the opening stanza. the raucous Union crowd out of Union returned to the form it the game. showed in the first period, but only Despite the late-period goal, after Brown scored its second goal Union had to come outofthe gate of the evening. Juniors Brent strong and continue the hitting Ozarowski and tri-captain Mark that generated a number of scor- S:zucs came on hard and strong to ing chances in the first period. bring the Dutchmen back into the However, that would not be the game. First, it was Ozarowski steal- case, as Union came out ofthe gate .ing the puck from Brown a little sluggish, not taking the defenseman D.J. Harding and skat- ing in a.lone ·on Holowaty who stopped.Ozarowski' s first attempt, but could not get to the rebound as Ozarowski fired it home. Just under four minutes later, it was Ozatowski .skating end to end through the Brown defense.. He centered a pass to Szucs who was camped out just ab<:>ve the right circle and Szucs rocketed the puck over Holowaty's left shoulder to tie the score. Once again at the outset of the third period, Union faced a situa- tion common to them in the ·last five games -being tied or losing to their opponent. However, instead of coming out with the intensity they showed during the first and sec- ond periods, the Dutchmen came out timidly, almost seeming as if they did not want to make an error. In short, the Dutchmen were not prepared to play the third period and were outshot by the Bears I 5- 8. The deciding goal came as the Bears' John DiRenzo trapped Union defensemen in the corner and went on a two-on-one breakaway down the ice. His shot was stopped by Koenig, but no- body was home to pick up the re- bound and Paul Giblin tapped home at 2:20 ofthe period, giving Brown a 3-2 lead. Ozarowski .felt that Union had momentum going into the third period, but lost it as Brown came out of the gate strong. \In the sec• ond period~ we had the momentum. In the third period, they came out strong. We just fell asleep for a minute, and it killed us,\ he said. The Dutchmen played host to the Harvard Crimson Saturday night in what would be one ofthe tougher games of the season for Union. After a sloppy first period in which goaltender Leeor Shtrom Continued on 21 -etb,all A Long December ... But Hope Remains Features Columns ·Settling:···· ·.the··s ' . by Jonath~n Gasthalter Etlitor-ili-CIIief Union's yotJn_g and energetic men's ice hockey team went into the Winter break with a record of 1-7-3, after tyiflg the Clarkson Golden Knights: 3-3, on a late scor- ing flurry after being down two goals late in the tliird period. The skating Dutchrnen's coaches hoped that the strong comeback against Clarks()n would give the team some needed momentum go- ing into a tough eight game stretch against Division I competition. Thanksgivillg. weekend, the Dutchmen traveled to Omaha, Ne- braska to face-off against a Mav- ericks tea,n making its debut in Di- vision I hockey. Unic.n split the series winning the seconcl game 6- 3. Union was outshotintheseries 84-60, but goaltenders Trevor Koenig and Leeor Shtrom shined in the net in both contests, as sophomore Brent Ozarowski net- ted his first two goal game of the season in the victory. The Dutchmen returned horne to AchiJies the fol1~wing weekend for an ECAC matcb-uJl, as tl!ey hosted Cornell and ColgCite. Union, who defeated thenatiotnlly-rank:ed Big Red at home last seaso11, was up for the game and defeated a strong Cornell team 4-2, holding the Big Red to just 20 shots. Ozarowski regained his scoring touch, netting his forth goal of the season and junior defenseman Ryan Boyd, who missed much of the 1996-97 sea- defeated Union in the first game 5- 2. Tri-captains Ryan Campbell and Mark Szucs netted their fourth goals of the season in the losing cause. The Dutchmen tied Mankato in the second game of the series 3-3, Brent Ozarowski led all scorers over break. (Rick Lederer I TC) his first Union goal in the victor. However, Union did not return with the same offensive p1.1nch the following evening against the Red Raiders and dropped a slow-paced, penalty filled game 3-0. Koenig kicked out 27 shots in the losing effort for the Dutchmen. The Dutchmen then traveled to snowy Minnesota to take ()h Mankato State in·the first oftwo non-league games. The Mavericks wi1h 13 .5 seconds to go in the game. Union pulled goaltender Koenig for an extra attacker, but the Mankato defense held strong not allowing the Dutchmen any offen- sive chances. Campbell, Ozarowski, and Szucs each tallied their 5th goals of the season in the tie, as freshman Jay Varady re- turned from a broken leg sustained in practice early in the season. With 1997 history, Union trav- eled to Baker Rink on the Princeton University campus to battle a solid Tiger team. A -five minute major penalty, with the Dutchmen on a power-play hurt and Princeton took the game 3-1. The finale of the eight Winter break games saw Union give first- place Yale a scare at Ingalls rink. However, despite senior co-cap- tain Charlie Moxham's two goals and Koenig's 37 saves the Dutch- men lost 5-4 and saw their record fall to 2-5-I in the ECAC and 3-12- 2overall. With the second half ofthe sea- son fast approaching, the Dutch- men need to pick up where they left off against Yale, as they gain confidence in their play, to enter the playoff picture. \I think that we are learning everyday. We want to concentrate on playing a full sixty minutes of hockey. Things are starting to gel together now. We have lost a lot of one goal games. If we could turn those games around, our record would look a lot different than it does now,\ said Campbell. Union started the second half of their 1998 season without fi·eshman. Daniel Pugen, sophomore Sean· Nolan, and sophomore Neil White, who is out of action with a back injury.

I I i I ' Dutchwotnen Ahead of Progress by David Weiner Sports Writer In her third year as head coach, Mary Ellen Burt has brought in an extremely strong class of freshmen that, along with the teams' two re- turning players, lodk to begin to build women's basketball into a strong program at Union College. Although this may be somewhat of a rebuilding year, the team is learning at an exponential rate and soon looks to be very strong. Working with such a young and talented group of women, coach Burt is extremely excited about the prospects ofthe program. While the team has a recor€1 of just three wins and five losses thus far, they have displayed flashes ofbrilliance and shown determination that will allow them to soon be successful. As the team came into pre- season, only one starting spot was filled, that by Captain Leah Oliveiri '00, and with nine first year play- ers, the competition to fill the lineup was rigorous, but healthy. After enduring lengthy workouts and double sessions over vacation, the starting lineup became clear to coach Burt. Four freshmen, Kelly Johnson, Erin McNamara, Beth Perry, and Kathleen Furlong ac- company Oliveiri to the floor for the opening tip-off. Both Sara D' Arcangelo and Shawn McQuade come off the bench as the sixth and seventh players re- spectively. With Oliveiri holding a presence on the inside, the team has worked extremely hard at their three-point shooting. Johnson, McNamara, and Furlong have improved quite a bit already; thus creating an in- side/outside at- tack that allows :tior dearer views ofthe basket, and hopefully, more points. When any group of people come together for the first time to work together, time is needed to learn the intrica- cies of how the otherswotk. That is exactly what this team has experienced thus far this sea- son. In thinking about- this, McNamara com- Oliveiri was elected Captain and has assumed ail the responsibili- ties that come with this title. As '~cannot believe the amount of im- provement the team has made in such a short amount of time\. Alo~g with her, as · well as coach Burt, point guard Johnson has dune an outstanding job ()f leading by example in both games and prac- tice, always mak- ing her presence known. ~he has quickly become an on the court leade~. Tbis past week- end, the team hosted the Union Invitational. Sat- urday night, Union faced a tough St. Joseph's team that bested the Dutch- . women by only a mented, \we all point in a game came from differ- that came down to ent coaches and the final seconds. different philoso- Trailing by four phies, but with a with one minute to good attitude, .pa- · play, McNamara tience, and a lot of drained a three to help from coach, bring Union we are slowly ErinMcNamaraflglltsfortlleball.(AaronBraunstein!TC) within one, but learning and growing as a team.\ the only returning starter, she has sloppy defense and poor passing Because this team is young, they · help guide her new playing part- allowed St. Joe's to hold onto the do have quite a bit to learn, but if ners and answer the numerous ball an·d seemingly run out the they continue to improve at tile questions they have. She does clock. With seven seconds remain- satne pace they have thus far, they admit that it is hard being Captain ing, Oliveiri committe<! a foul, put- will seemingly.be unstoppable. as a sophomore, but she has, \truly ting St. Jqe' s leading scorer on the , In .just her sophomore year, enjoyed the responsibility\ and foul .line which resulted in two St. Men's Basketball Returns to .500 by Frank Rossi Etlitor-iii-CIIief After starting the season at 2-4, the Union College Shooting Dutchmen had an opportunity last weekend to move to the . 500 mark for the first time this season. The Dutchmen won both games in the Union College Invitational to move to 4-4 before starting their rugged UCAA schedule. The wins .also helped place two Union upperclassmen on the All- Invitational Team. Senior captain Rob TeCarr earned that honor by scoring a team-high 16 points in the team's 54-48 comeback victory Friday against Haverford College. Junior Rob Groelz, who did not have his best games ofthe season, still played sound offensive and defensive games, pulling down seven rebounds Friday and scor- ing 11 points in Saturday's 82-38 rout of Swarthmore. Groelzjoined TeCarr on the All-Invitational Team. Head Coach Robert Montana was·happy to see his team work together well on the way to the two victories. \We really need to im- prove our overall execution as a team. We cannot be in a position where we have to rely on just one or two people.\ The Haverford game started slow for both teams, butthe Dutch- men spotted Haverford a five- point halftime lead. With TeCarr's six-for-11 shooting effort, includ- ing three forflve behind the three- point arc, the Dutchmen mounted their comeback effort. Sopho- more forward A n d y Donohue's ten rebounds helped ice the victory. This game was the opposite Union's effort before break against Vassar, as they losta si.z- able halftime lead to Vassar in the second half. The team came back Satur- day and purn- m e I e d Swarthmore, 82- 3&. Swarthmore, which lost Friday to Skidmore 86- 69, was out- scored 15-0 to L---------------__::::!!:--==-\-\'-\' open the game. Cal Robinson ~kies above Swarthmore in a Union rout. Freshman center John Van Wormer dence of the Dutchmen coming off shot six for seven for 12 points, the winter break, Montana stated leading all scorers, and Montana thatthe team still has several goals was able to empty the bench mid- to meet during this busy league way through the second half. week. Union's27-pointhalftimeleadand \We need to continue to im- 44-point victory represent their prove on our defensive end. We largest margins of success in need to keep team scoring down years. to the mid- to lower 60's. By keep- Union's victories come on the ing teams in that range, the wins heels ·of three home UCAA league and losses will take care of them- games this week, starting with RPI selves.\ (Tuesday, January 13), and con- The Dutchmen play Hamilton tinuing with Hamilton on Friday Friday at 8:00PM and Hobart Sat- and Hobart on Saturday. While the urday at 4:00PM at the Memorial victories have rebuilt the confl- Fieldhouse. Joe's points and a three point defi- cit. Union quickly moved the ball down court and into Oliveiri's hands, who, consequently spun in the lane, put up a shot, made it, seemingly drew a foulthat was not called, and the game ended. This was a tough way to lose, hut a strong effort from a Union team that had not played q game in over a month. Strong points in the game for Union were Oliveiri show scored twenty-eight points and fif- teen rebounds, McNamara scored 22 points, and Perry scored thir- teen points and twelve rebounds. Sunday's game against Manhattanville left Union with a bit better result as the team posted a 80-35 victory. Again, McNamara played a superb game, scoring sev- enteen points in just eighteen min- utes, thus earning herself the honor of being named to the all-tourna- ment team. Along with McNamara, Furlong, and D' Arcangelo both put forth superb efforts, scoring nineteen and thirteen points re- spectively. This dominating win is an extreme confidence booster for a young team and will hopefully help them as they face their tough- est opponent of the season thus far, RPI, on Tuesday. With a third of the season com- plete and their record at three and five, the· Dutchwomen have their work cutout for them if they are to achieve their goal of a .500 season. However, ifthey continue to grow and learn at the pace they have thus far, there is no telling whatthis · team might accomplish. Swimming Drowns by Mark Anderson Contributing Writer Last weekend against a tough Williams College team Union Swimming lost a tough meets. The women's team, which did have some bright spots, lost 168.5 to 64.5. Megan McCarthy was the lone winner for Union, winning the 200 Individual Medley (2: 16.56) and 200 breaststroke (2:29.80). In her respective events, McCarthy · proved herself to be a national contender. A transfer student from Kenyon, Clouis Kinnett put on a great display in the 500 freestyle, in which she finished second. The freshmen swam strong, clearly showing that they will be a force to reckon with in the future. Over on the men's side, which at times showed brilliance,. lost 158 to 83. To paraphrase ESPN's Stuart Scott, the men ended up colder than the other side of the pillow. The men had few winners on the day.. Jeff Haerle won the 200 Freestyle in 1 :48.43, on! y winning by five hundredths of a second. Dave Searles had a magnificent swim in the 200 Individual Me<lley (2:00.12). The always-dependable Brian Field won the three-meter diving, giving the team needed points. Matt Mauriello and Clark Smyth also had great meets, hav- ing their best times of the season. Coach Judy Wolfe, in her third year, said, \They swam hard, and now we'll look towards our next meet- Hartwick.\ 'r-,··

Ready for Any Challenge A Return to Glory? Sophomore Beth Gabriel) A Lea·der in Two Sports by Jason Everett ·Sports Writer perstar Dave Riggi. Although it will difficulttomake upforthe guar- anteed Hpoints\ Riggi.perennially provided in meets, the men will fmd strength in their numbers this year with over 30 men corning out for .the team. In addition~ there are over 20 athletes on the women's side. by Meli;saJohnson Sports 1m.formation Stutii!\.Jit Writer For Union On! lege sophomore, Beth Gabriel, th e .emergence of the wornen's iceh~:nc\ey program is a positive aspect ofthe .school. As a serious student, Gabriel is taking pre-med course:s and is consider- ing bio-medical research for the fu~ure. On top• of her busy aca- demic schedu~e:, Gabriel still finds time to be an active participant on U ni em's Divi~io11 H l softball team as well as orntlle women's ic.e hoc.key program. which is in its third season as <t dub sport and will attain varsity status starting with the 1999-20>0() campaign. A graduate af Worcester Acad- emy, Gabriel ste!Pped into the start- ing catcher's roleilastspring forthe softball team CJU iteeasily. During her junior ye<lr at Worcester, Gabriel was namrred the softball team's Most Va.ltaable Player and was elected·CaJJtain during her se- nior season. Since athletics, athletic compe- tition and quality <tcademics are all imp()rtant to Gabriel, she chose Union based o-n the college's ex- cellent academic Feputation as well as itsestablishe& Division III soft- ball program. rh e Dutchwomen had graduated tbeir three-year starting catcher ami .offered Gabriel an opportunity tOt j)attle fur the job. Not only did she meet the chal- lenge, Gabriel I.NIOfl the starting job and played aim ost every inning of every game. ~h-e finished her rook1e season !hitting .340 (34 of 1 00) for a young team that relied Beth Gabriel (Courtesy of the Sports Information Department) to a higher level,\ said Gabriel. Playing ice hockey has been a dream of Gabriel's for a number of years. While she did not have the opportunity to participate prior to attending Union, she has taken advantage of her opportunities and has been a mainstay since the second game of her freshman year. \While I had done some recre- ational skating, I had never played in an organized game,\ Gabriel ex- plained. \I didn't get in the first game, but I've been in every game since.\ Gabriel's first season produced eight points (three goals and fi\e assists) as the Skating Dutchwomen went 8-2 against club teams. A year later, Gabriel is a proven player who is comforta~le with her role and is confident th.at she cannot only help the team win, but help the younger players ad- just to the rigors of combining the three aspects of college life . ._..academics, athletics and sn- cial skills .. Outside of athletics, Gabriel spends hertimehelpingwith Sigma Delta Tau's numerous community service programs. The Union Indoor Track team begins its 1998 season next week- end with a dual meet at Hamilton College. New Head Coach Larry Cottrell is very excited about the season with the return of several talented upperclassmen and the large number ofnew athletes, for both the men and women squads. Although the team has not yet competed this season, a predomi- nant theme of this season, which culminates with the State Champi- onships here at Union, is the task · of trying to recapture the glory that eluded Union last year, and the maintaining of excellence at the state championships. For the • men, the 4x800 team led by Peter · Flynn and team captain Jay • Goldberg, hope to reclaim the dominance Union had two years ago in the state in this relay, in- cluding recapturing the state championship. Flynn and · Goldberg, in addition to promis- ing freshmen standouts John Nieman and Terry Chang, hope to score high in the state meet and have standout seasons. The men's runners are coached by Assistant Coach Nick Conway who is now a graduate student at Union, replacing the departed Todd Donnley. The men also welcome back several veteran athletes such as senior Mike Martin in thelongand triple jumps and Jesse Prisco in the sprints. Prisco, Kevin Abessi, and others will have their work cut out for them attempting to con- duct some damage control to make up for the loss of graduated su- The women's team strength is in the mid-distance events where they are led by junior Jessie a Goveia, the •1997 XC MVP fresh- man Amy S'labich,.andjunior Katie MacDowell. Goveia, recently named team co-captain along with MacDowell, is coming off an im- pressive roQkie XC season, and looks to continue her string of im- pressive performances in tile lOOOm at states where she has medaled the past two years. MacDowell looks to improve on her finish in the 1500m finals in lastyear's state championships while Slabich looks to bring her success on the trails to the track. The women also ea- gerly look forward to fielding some highly competitive relay teams this season which they did not have the ability to do in past years. The women are also f()rtunate to have several other key atn letes re- turning. Junior Autumn Renn looks to make her indoor track de- but in her specialties, the .long and triple jumps. Jordanna Mallach in the pole vault and Carrie Cieslowski in the high jump also look to shine this season. The Union field athletesareonce again coached by returning Assis- tant Coach Jim. Bowles, and the team also welcomes new Assistant Coach Jeff Guinn to the team, re- placing the departed Aldo Nardiello. alm()st entirely (]tljust one pitcher . .-----------------------------''-------------------------- Gabriel started 32of the team's 33 games and drove in I 5 runs with 15 runs score<!. :She rapped three doubles, a pair o fttri pies and a home run. Gabriel is anx:.iou sly looking for- ward to her sophromore season this spring. Union recruited three fresh- men pitchers and()abriel is excited abowt the proslJlec:ts of working with the rooki() 1riOt. Brian Speck, who recruite.d G<lbriel, is very pleased with hef dedication, her work ethic, and her winning atti- tude. \B.eth did a great job for us last year,'~ said Spec:k. ''She came into a situation where she had to learn how tile pitcher's pitched, and what to expect from them. She's an ex- cellent catcher, a.nd111ore than that, she has shown merself to possess outs tan ding lealrlersh. ip qualities. Not o11ly did she: c:orne in and suc- cessfully take om one of the most difficult positiorns o ftbe field, she quickly earned the: respect of all of her teammates a11d the coaching staff. She does nvt accept losing and that winning attitude rubbed off on the entire team. I look for- ward tte having her with us the next three :seasons.\ Gal>riel is currently in her sec- ond season as a rrigllt wing on the womem' s ice hockey team. She is a mainstay on this S<JUad as well and is looking forwilrd to seeing the team improve both in its skill level and its recor<l as tlle season progresses. \There are a l<lt 01ffreshmen who are good and wi II heelJll ift the team Union Swim Teams Win UCAA Championships SCHENECTADY, N .Y .-The the NCAA Division III \B\ quali- \To have so many people score (Elmira, NY /Southside) won the men's and women's swimming and fying cuts in all three events. Jun- for us this early in the season is an one and three meter events while diving teams at Union College cap- ior Dave Searles (Bath, ME/- outstanding accompl·ishment,\ sophomore Heather Weisenfluh turedtheir.firstUpstateCollegiate Morse) was named the men's said third-year head coach Judy (Eimira,NY/Southside}ca.ptured Athletic Association champion- \Swimmer ofthe Meet\ as he also Wolfe. \It is nice to finally win the the three meter while ;fi!lishing ships last Saturday (December 6) won all four ofh is events (the 200 championships after finishing sec- second in the one meter. at Rensselaer's Robison Pool. The &400 IM and the 100&200butter- ond the first two years.\ Junior Jeff Hoerle (New Hart- Dutchwomen bested a field of eight fly). and also participated on three Union~ s relay teams once again ford, NY !New Hartford) scored 68 by scoring 805 points while the relay teams.· Senior Mike proved to be dominate as the men points for the Dutchmen as he fin- Dutchmen topped a field of seven Darbyshire (Latham, NY /Shaker) won all four of their races while the ished second in the 50, 100 and by scoring 876.60 poinh~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~.-.~-~-.~~~zoo~es~~~esaswcllas (Hamilton finished second in 1411 lUlU'~ · ~ ~- ., in the 100 backstroke. He was both meets, scoring 698.50 ~ ~ .• -·· _ >\·-· . ~~ also a member ofthree relay points on the women's side teams. Senior Mark Ander- and 864.50 by the men). son (New Hartford, NY /New Union had fmished second Hartford), who was <>n two in both meets each of the last winningrelayteams, t<Jok first two·years. The Dutchwomen in both the 100 a11d 200 broke Hamilton's two-year run as UCAA champions while Hamilton and Rensselaer had won the ini- tial twomen'scrowns. In the process ofbringing home the crowns, Union's L.. ~------------------------=­ The Dutchwomen set three UCAA meet records wl1ile the men estahlislzed f()ur as both teams won their first ever VCAA clrampionship. (SID lTC) women set three UCAA champi- onship records while the men es- ---~--~-~--~~~-7-------~---7--~~--~-- tablished four. Senior Megan picked up 75 points for the Dutch... women captured two titles with a McCarthy (Bethany, CT/ Amith men as he set records in the 50 free pair of second-place finishes. The Regional) was selected the (21.93),thel00free(47.54)andthe womenhadfivefmishersinthetop women's \Swimmer of the Meet\ 200 free (I :46.48) while finishin~ 10 in both the 500 freestyle and200 after winning all four ofher events fourth in the 100 butterfly. He was breaststroke events while placing (the 400 IM, the I 00 and & 200 also the third leg of the record-set- three among the top I 0 in the 400 breaststroke and the 200 IM) to ting 200 freestyle relay team JM, the l 00 fly and the 200 back- score 80 points (not including her (12:27.71). stroke. The men, meanwhile, participation on three relay teams) In all, 19 me11 scored at least one placed four among the top lO iLl for the Dutch women. Set meet point while swimming an individual the 100 free, the l 00 breast, the 50 records in the400 IM ( 4:44.37), the event while 15 women contributed ftee,the 200 free and the 1 OObreast. 100 breast (1:08.93) and the 200 contributed to the women's scor• Union's divers were also well breast (2:27 .82) while surpassing ing. represented as senior Brian Field breaststroke events On the women's side, sophomore Kerry Librandi (White Plains, NY/H()[y Chile) . took home first place honors in both the 50 and 1650 __..___, freestyle races while finishing third in the 200 free and sixth in the 200 back. Librandi, who earned the Dutchwomen 69 points in in- dividual races, was also a member of the first-place 400 free relay team. Senior Sarah Spalllding (Cortland, NY/Cortland) earned 60.5 points wjth two secon<ls (200 back & 500 Free), a fifth ancl a sixth, sophomore Clewis Kinnett (Chelmsford, MA/Chelmsford) picked up 59 points with a third (500 free), two fourths and a fifth. Special thlliiKS to SID G~orge Cuttita for this article. i I

it r- ly td if )f ·e 's n ·e a 1- e y h d n d !I e s s s Women-'s Ice Hockey Ties Adirondack Neither Rain nor Sleet nor Snow ... by Brian Terlinski Contributing Writer by Jason Everett Spotts Writer The Union men's and women's cross-country teams conclttded their 1997 campaign with theNew York State Championships at SUNY Brockport and the NCAA Division HI Regional Qualifiers at 'Saratoga State Park, overthe lasttwoweek- .ends of this past term. Going into the state meet, the men's team was deeply perturbed at a \highly sophisticated\ com- --------~~~- ·. puter gl:lnerated ranking that pro- The Union College women's ice hockey team hegan its second half of the season on Sunday, as they skated to a 3-3 tie against the Adirondack Regional H ockeyCiub. Union started their seasoH off very confident in November, by defeat- ing a strong Holy Cross Univer- sity team, as well as tying a tough Boston University squad. With the tie, Union's record now stands at 1~1~2. Union's first game back from a long six week break was against a non-league opponent, something which was beneficial for the team, before returning to a demanding league schedule. Union traveled to Glenns Falls and faced-off to an Adirondack Regional Hockey team. The Adirondack team is a local youth team, composed of mainly older teenagers, which actually gave Union somewhat of a chal- lenge, since the Dutchwomen had not played together rn several weeks. In the first period,. both Union and Adirondack skated well and played with much intensity. Union was first to reach the scoreboard late in the period, as sophomore Kristen Owad scored on a pass from sophomore Beth Gabriel, with only 18 seconds left, giving Union a 1-0. The Dutch women brought their stmng enthusiasm with them into the second period_ Union went ahead even further after junior Sara Moss put the puck in the net at 14:36 of the period, makin_g it 2-0. Seniors Laura Felton and Sara Wi.lbur assisted on the goal. A wake-up call occurred at 7:57 of the period for the Adirondack team, who showed Union they were not giving up, and scored, making it 2~1. Just a. minute and a jectedtherri to finish last in the four- teen teamcontest. After a pre-race meeting, the men approached the race in deliberate fashion and pro- ceeded to torch the projecti()ns. · The men raced 8K (5 miles) over the damp grassy trail course, After • a quick start in the fourteen team contest, the Union harriers settled in and ran resolutely. Leading the way for the men was senior cap- tain Dave Kunselman, Kunselman, ltaving undoubtedly his best year as a Dutchmen, ran aggressively with the leaders for most of the race. Although he was overcome with a nasty stich in the latter stages of the race, Ktmselman held on to take seventeenth place, in a perfonnance Coach Charlie Casey described, with a straight f~ce as, '\showing a lot of guts.\ Kunselman finished in 26:50. Next in for Union was fellow se- nior Jay Goldberg who ran what Casey· deemed ','the race of the day.\ Goldber:g ran a tenaciotls race. over the last mile of the race, passing fifteen in the last~ mile to t::keJ2d in 27:23. Third in was sophomore Kenny Scott in 79th in 28:37who ran a fi11e race as well. The men finished 11 tl• overall with 298 points, behind Buffalo State and Hamilton tied with 291 points. Casey commented that he was \disappointed that we lost so narrowly [to them] ... but it was still a pretty good effort.\ Casey gave kudos to freshman Joe C1lan who \was in the thick of it and responded to the challenge <~t hand\ getting Hartwick runners i11 the finalstretch. The men's results are as follows: I 7. Kunselma11 26:50;32. Goldberg27:23; 79. Scott 28:37; 107. HughMeyer29:34; I 1~. Chan 30:I3; 121. John Nieman 3():59;126. TerryChang31:45; 127. Evan Jahn 32: 19; 129. Corey Mathis 33 :53; 130. Siraj Bhadsavla 36:46. The following weekend at Saratoga, the men competed in their fi11al meet. With a snow stonn the previous night that .feft six inches of snow over the race course, host .school RPI designed an alternate course over the. roads through the scenic park. The men finished 18th in the 23 team contest. Leading the way for the men, in his final Union College race, was se- .. -\*' for sure.\ The men's results are as follows: 43. Goldberg 26:53; 48. Kunselman 26:57; 132. Hugh Meyer 29:33; 134. Kenny Scott 29:35; 139. Joe Chan 30:03; 145. TenyChang 31:04; 151. Joe Nieman 32:09. Althoqgh the men will be significantly hurt next year with the graduation of Goldberg and Kunselman, the men will welcome back superstar Peter Flynn who was on term abroad this year. With the development of the present ctop of freshmen and talentedjurr- Amy Slabich ('0 I) With a 112 mile to go at regionals (Everett lTC) nior Jay Goldberg in 42\d place in a personal best26:53. Goldberg ran aggressively from the outset and improved upon his 68th place fin- ish the previous two years and I 20th his freshman year. Close be- hind was fellow senior and the 1997 team MVP Dave Kunselman, who ran a terri fie race as well finishing 48tl 1 in26:57. Casey commented that it was a \great race for Jay, [and] Dave did not have a bad day either [but] the story of the day was the weather iors, in addition to a promising re- cruiting class, the men should be in the thick of things again next year. At states, the Union women had a solid performance and finished 13 of 14 teams with 317 points. Leading the way for the women was 199.7 Rookie of the Year junior Jessica Goveia. Goveia, experienc- ing a bit of groundhogs day with her time, finished an outstanding 33'd in 20:09, being nipped at the line by at Hartwick runner. Casey commented that \Jess was the star ofthe show for us [with that race].\ Next in forUnion was 1997 MVP, freshman Amy Slabich, in 21 :02. Finishing with Slabich was team captain Kelly Jamieson in 63•d in 21 :02 as well. Caseyre~ped praise upon rookie runner, senior Allison Ciolino, who fmished 91\ in 22:03, just a second ahead ofjunior Katie MacDowell. Casey said, \Allie's was tlte best single performance of the day otherthanJess's.\ The women's results are as follows: 33. Goveia 20 :09; 62. Slabich 21 :02; 63. Jamieson 21 :02; 91. Ciolino 22:03; 92. MacDowell22:04; 97. Charity MacManaman 22:33; I 04. Mellissa Magner 23:05; 107. Irene Kan 23:28; I I7.AimeeMarko27:47. Although the women were well behind the 12th place team at states, at regionals the team competition was a bit more tight. The women finished 16 of 18 with 3 53 points with NYU and SUNY Binghamton just ahead with 348 and 344 points respectively. Leading the way for the female harriers over the 3 mile alternate course was freshman standout Amy Slabich. Slabich finished in an outstanding 4Qth place in I 9:20. In 51 stwas Jessica Goveia in 19:26. Casey com- mented that he is \really excited about both of them coming back next year.\ Third in for Union was perennial team leader Kelly Jamieson. Jamieson ran what Casey deemed \a solid race again,\ finishing 63rd in I 9:42. The women's results are: 40. Slabich 19:20; 51. Goveia 19:26; 63. Jamieson 19:42; 103. Charity MacManaman 20:57; I 04. Katie MacDowell 20:58; IW. Alison Ciolino 21:1 I; 117. Melissa Magner 21 :40 . The women will bid farewell to four-year standout Kelly Jamieson and rookie Allison Cio Jino who played significant roles this year. Despite their departure, tile women will welcome back Suzanne Hoyer who was abroad, and <~wait the hopeful return of Jessie<~ Goveia. With their presence and the de- velopment of freshman star Amy Slabich, the women look towards fielding the most competitive team in Union histmy. Casey said he will wait and see who will s1ep up, but feels that MacDowell could be the one to replace Jamieson. halflater,Uniongotbacktheirtwo L---------~--..,----------------------~-------------­ goallead, making itthree to one. Scoring for Union was Wilbur, who was assisted by Felton. How- ever, that would not stop Adirondack from scoring again, who put it past junior goaltender Lauren Locke at 2:31 of the period. The' second period would end with Union leading by the score of 3-2. For most of the third period, once again, Union showed that they were the better team, but a controversial goal was scored by the Adirondack team at 10:20 of the third period. A shot was taken by Adirondack, as Dutchwomen goaltender Locke made the initial save. An Adirondack player shot the puck into the net, after the ref- eree had blown_the whistle for play to stop. The referee, who had not seen the shot after the whistle was blown, counted the goal, which wou1d eventually be tltejinal goal of the game. Union and Adirondack tied 3-3. Total shots 011 goal were 34 for Union, while Adirondack only had 20. Captain· Felton thought the team played an all around good game~ even though they finished in a tie. \We out skated them and playecJ real well, anci should of·won tlte gam-e. But they came back from a three to one deficit, which was dis- appointing,\ she said. The coaching staff of Jeff St. Vrain, Tim Benson, and Todd Davis all felt the team played hard and an~ looking forward to a great rest of the season.\Everyone played very good, and for most of the · garne, we definitely were the dom i· nating team,'' Benson said. · Ihe Dutchwomen's next game is today at 2:30 against Colgate Univer;sity. Even though Women's Ice Hockey is a club sport, it is our goal to provide the best coverage to the campus. Skating Dutchmen Fail in OT ... Continued from Page 18 was called on to stop numerous Harvard breakaways, the Dutch- men settled down in the second stanza. Sophomore defenseman Jeff Sproat netted the games first goal at :50 to give the Dutchmen a I -0 lead. Union continued its ag- gressive play and the strong forechecking they had shown all throughout the period paid off at 6:26. Ozarowski scored his sev- enth goal of the season giving Union a 2-0 lead. However, Harvard fought back and scored on a short- hanqeo breakaway just under ten minutes to go in the period. Union would again be faced with what has been a common-place theme for the team this season. Taking a 2-llead into the third pe- riod, Union saw Harvlttd's Rob Millar tie the score. Ozarowski was forced to play defense as defensemen Alex Todd and Joel Bond got trapped pinching in the Harvard zone. Then, in the over- time period, it was Millar getting the game winner, as he skated in alone and took a low slap-shot that went through Shtrom' s pads. Shtrom, who made his first start of the year against ECAC competi- tion and kicked out thirty-eight shots, felt that he could have made a better play on the fmal shot. \For me, the loss is devastating. It was a bad-luck goal in the overtime pe- riod. That's a shot you could take a hundred times in practice and it's not going to go in,\ he said. The loss dropped the Dutchmen's record to 2-7-l in the ECAC and 3-14-2 overall, extend- ing the winless streak to seven games. Coach Moore felt that ''the key to it is not to make it devastat- in g. One of the things we've done with the players is to expla,in the things we need to do to get better; challenge them with the idea of playing harder.\ The Skating Dutchmen host \Route 7 Rival\ the RPl Engineers Saturday night at 7:00 at Achilles Rink. In the first meeting between th~se two teams in the second an- nual\Capital Skate Classic\' at the Pepsi Arena, the Dutchmen lost 3- 2. despite goaltender Shtrom's 4 7 saves. That game did not count in ECAC standings. RPI is ranked 5th in the ECAC with a 4-4-2 record in the league and a 9-7-2 record over- all. Between the Pipes Senior tri-captail1 Charlie Moxham was named to the ECAC Honor Roll for his two goal perfor- mance against the Yale Bulldogs. ~' ' ...

Goodbye and Good Riddance to the Crime That Was 1997 by Chris Leone Sports Editor Last week, Club U was billed as watching the ball drop for the second time. All sports fans should have stood in line to participate in the event. With the New Year, gone are the criminal actions that tarnished the sports world. 1997 should long be remembered as the year of the all-criminal team rather titan for any all-star team that was produced. Who worries about aU-madden when you can have all-rapists, drug addicts, and mug- gers? The NBA is by far the best league to find some players for 1997 all-criminal team. Latrel Sprewell is an obvious choice for the as- sault on Warrior coach P.J. Carlesimo. The guard is IJ:Icky that Carlesimo will never press charges. Spreewell can barely explain his actions to the press and would never get passed ajudge and jury. My fictitious team could not take place without the Chicago Bul'l 's Dennis Rodman. Last year, the quick tempered forward com- mitted assault on a photographer and slan- der against the Mormon Church. Of course, no charges were pressed against Rodman and he only gained more hype for his noto- rious lifestyle. The Houston Rocket's Charles Barkley, the Los Angeles Lakers Shaquille O'Neil, and the Philadelphia Seventy Sixers Alan Iverson are the qualified members to be se- lected from tl1e NBA. Barkley receives his place on the team for throwing a man out a window, and D'Neil earns his status cour- tesy of senselessly slapping Utah's Greg Ostertag before a game. Iverson, the 1997 rookie of the year, was arrested last year for possession of a gun: The NFL is the next logical stop when building a team full of criminals from 1997. It seems that on any given date, most mem- bers of the Dallas Cowboys were commit- ting a random penal violation. Thus, the whole team is deserving of a place on my aU- criminal team. Barry Switzer, who recently resigned, (already making 1998 abetter year) would coach my team. You don't have to worry about disciplpine with Switzer becasue as general manager I give him free choice to shoot one of the players if they were late for curfew. Another memberofthe NFL to earn a spot on this team is the Baltimore Raven's run- ning back Bam Morris. The talented back is currently on probation for having multiple pounds of marijuana in the trunk ofh is car. In 1997, Morris came under an investigation for allegedly beating a women at a party and for violating his probation. What a great role model! Lawrence Phillips deserves a nomination to this most wanted team. However, review- ing this athlete's criminal record would be equivalent to either a drawn out TV mini- series or listening to a Union Hockey game. It is an emotional yo-yo. . ' Major League Baseball is not a tougll place Where Have You Gone? by David Weiner Baseball, America's pastime. I love I istening to the stories about the days when my father would .-ush home from a day at school, throw his books into a comer, grab his baseball glove and gather with his buddies for an afternoon ofbaiL Those boys would play their hearts out every day well past sundown, merely because they love the game. In their minds, they transformed into their favorite player- Babe Ruth, Joe DiMaggio, Ted Williams, and every day, was game seven of the World Series. It was the dream of every little boy to play professional baseball. Baseball was life. I believe James Earl Jones said it best in Field of Dreams: \Through all the years, baseball has been the one constant. Our society has been like an army of steamrollers, a blackboard erased, built up, and erased again. But baseball has marked the time. It is part of our past.\ Through the majority of this century, our country lived and died by how their cities base- . ball team fa ired. Grown men and little children alike found themselves glued to the radio or television, their heart pounding, a slight sweat forming on their forehead as their team · began its come from behind rally in the bottom ofthe ninth to capture the coveted pennant. Baseball was life and it was a beautiful thing. What has happened? Where has that Jove gone? In just a few short years, baseball has gone from what seemed to be the foundation of our society to an()ther professional sport run by greedy businessmen. Owners and players are merely concerned with making money, and the love and respect baseball once held has vanished. The same fans who, years ago, could easily recite the starting lineup oftheir favorite team, now have trouble remembering what players are on the team. What has happened? As a Boston native, I am partial of course, to the Red Sox. Let's take a look at some of their recent developments: They signed veteran pitcher Pedro Martinez to a hefty contract. Consequently, they raised ticket prices by four dollars per ticket. While this may help to pay Martinez' salary, what will the Red Sox do when far less fans attend games? Then, just a few days ago, role model and 1995 American League Most Valuable Player Mo Vaughn was arrested on charges of drunk driving. Throughollt the Boston area and even the nation, Vaughn is a role model to children. He has chose11 to inject himself into many yoLJnglivcs. Docs he not owe it to the children to live an exemplary life? What child is going to listen to someone who does not practice what he preaches? Not only do we have Vaughn, the drunk, there is also Roberto Alomar, the second baseman for the l3altimore Orioles, who spit on an umpire. And the final blow to baseball is Wayne Huzienga, owner of the World Champion Florida Marlins, who proceeded to sell off his entire team just weeks after winning the World Series. Some teams pull off a miracle of going from worst to first, but has a team even gone from first to worst in tbe fashion the Marlins most likely will this season? The caliber of character today's players possess is on the decline. so who can blame people for turning away from the game? to find mem hers for this dream team. While it seems that Darryl Strawberry is. always in trouble for something, the two players most deserving a spot ·on the team are former player Steve Howe and former Boston Red Sox Wilfre~o Cordero. In 1997, Howe J!lleaded guilty to a gun possession charge and in the past has been under numerous drug suspensions. Cordero receives his ros- ter spot for the alleged beating of his wife, and proving to be an an-around great indi- vidual. In a side note, it was nice to see Mo Vaughn carrying on Cordero's Red Sox tradition with his recent DUI to start the New Year. Marv Albert and O.J. Simpson will do the radio, TV, and all promotional work for my team. If someone questions why, just go back and read any number of tabloids over the past two years. Now that this fictional team has been cre-- ated, it is tough to tell what sport the mem- bers should play. Some ofthese athletes are all-stars, others are just want -to-be stars, and some are has-beens. After making my team, the athletes should donate 1998's. pay to a children's charity established by the major Believ~it or, . ab~ut If children are not introduced to baseball early in life, how will they ever come to appre- , .. ·. ciate baseball later in life? Our society is too concerned with success and money to cherish·,. . baseball for what it is- a game. Years ago, baseball may have been th:e pillar of society, but this beautiful game has become an ugly business that holds the interest ofvery fewpeople. The days of baseball after school and listening to games on th~ radi() at night are .gone and the game ofbas.eball is on the decline. It breaks my heart to say it, but the America's pass- time is most definitely past its prime. · sp<Jrting leagttes. While the respective unie>11s will complain about this idea, they only !leed to be reminded about the lucra- tive contracts and ticket prices. that we, the fans,. constantly endure. After the donations, the athletes should be susptmded for a year without pay. This would not mean they could sit at home and make commercials. No, these athletes should spend this year touring the nation's Jails. Let;s face the facts, iftheywant to act like criminals then they sh0uld play amongst criminals. I wonderifMr. Sprewell would be likely to strangle another coach if it were possit,.le that a murderer serving life with outparole might strangle him. lh.ere never will be a team like this, but it would serve these great ''sports heroes\ right. Maybej1Jstice would finally beserved to those who care about the games being played, and the kids who care about the .play- ers. G()Od-bye 1997, hopefully you took the cPiiTi.in:als with you. * ~ • * * * * * * * * * * * * * 11ll_e sports pages are much nicer to be on. I hate op-ed because most of this campus takes life way too seriously. Threatening letters or cartoons is really a bit immature. Do y()u think? I was really pulling for John Elway to lose last weekend. No, the Steeler's were notthe bette'f team, but the AFC is a joke and no onedeserved to lose the big one four times. Green Bay is goin~ to win and by how mllch? Who really cares? I just want to know if Louie ldlls the Budw-eiser frogs. ln closing, a prize is being offered for the stuc:lent who ce>mes up with the cleverest way to sneak an orange into the RPI game. If memory serves right, Security will be tak- ing all nominees names If you like to bet (which is against the law), take the Skating Dutchmen for 15 U dollars (the new currency of Schenectady).

15!J 1998 II . . .~c:... . Goodbye and Good Riddance to the Crime That Was 1997 bJ Chris Leone Sport.-. Etlite1r Last week, C htb U was billed as watching the ball drop for the second tin1e. All sports fans should have stood in l:ine to participate in the event. With the New Year, gone are the crimina I act ions that tarnished the sports world. 199 7 should long be remembered as the year ofth~ all-criminal team rather than for any all-star team that was produced. Who worries about all-madden when you can have all-rapists, drug addicts, and mug- gers? The NBA is by far the best league to find some players for I 997 all-critninal team. Latrel Sprewell is <m obviolls choice for the as- sault on Warrior coach P.J. Carlesimo. The guard is lucky that Carlesitno will never press charges. Sprecwell can barely explain his actions to the pr·css and would never get passed ajudge <lndjury. My fictitious team could not take place without the Chicago Bull's Dennis Rodman. Last year, the quick tempered forward com- mitted assault on a photogr~pher and slan- der against theM onnon Churdt. Of course, no charges wcr·c pressed against Rodman and he only gained more hype for his noto- rious lifestyle. The Houston Rocket's Charles Barkley, the Los Angeles Lakers Shaqu ille O'Neil, and the Philadelphia Seventy Sixers Alan Iverson are the (]Ualified members to be se- lected from the NBA. Barkley receives his place on the team for throwing a man out a window. and 0 'Neil earns llis status cour- tesy of senselessly slapping Utah's Greg Ostertag before a game. Iverson, the 1997 rookie ofthe year. was arrested last year for possession of a gun: The NFL is the next logical stop when building a team full of criminals from 1997. It seems that on any given date, most mem- bers of the Dallas Cowboys were commit- ting a random penal violation. Thus, the whole team isdeserving of a place on my all- crimiiml team. Barry Switzer, who recently resigned, (already making 1998 abetter year) would coach my team. Yotl don't have to worry about disciplpine with Switzer becasueas general manager I give him free choice to shoot one of the players if ttley were late for curfew. An()t11er member of the NFL to earn a spot on thi.s team is the Baltimore Raven's run- ning back Bam Morris. The talented back is currently on probation for having multiple pounds of marijuana in the trunk of his car. In 1997, Morris came under an investigation for all egcdly beating a women at a party and for violating his probation. What a great role Imdel! Lavvrence Phillips deserves a nomination to this most wanted team. However, review- ing this athlete's criminal record would be equivalent to either a drawn out TV mini- series or I istening to a Union Hockey game. It is an emotional yo-yo. Maj0r League Baseball is not a tough place Where Have You Gone?byDavidWeiner BasebalL America's pasti1ne. I love listening to the stories about the days when my father would n1sh home fro1n a day at school, throw his books into a comer, grab his baseball glove and gather with his buddies for an aftemoon ofball. Those boys would play their hearts out every day well past sundown, merely because they love the game. In their minds, they transformed into their favorite player- Babe Ruth, Joe DiMaggio, Ted Williams, and every day. was game seven ()fthe World Series. It was the dream of every little boy to play professional baseball. Baseball was life. l believe James Earl Jones said it best in Field ojDrt!a111s: \Through all the years, baseball has been the one constant. Our society has been like all army of steamrollers, a blackboard erased, built up, and erased again. But baseball has marked the time. It is part of our past.\ Through the majority of this century, our country lived and died by how their cities base- ball team faireu. Grown men and little children alike found themselves glued to the radio or television, their heart pounding. a slight sweat forming on their forehead as their team began its come from behind rally in the bottom of the ninth to capture the coveted pennant. Baseball was life and it was a beautiful thing. What has happened? Where has that love gone? [n just a few short years, baseball has gone from whnt seemed to be the foundation of our society to another professional sport run by greedy businessmen. Owners and players are merely concemed with making money, and the love and respect baseball once held has vanished. The same fans who, years ago, could easily recite the starting I ineup of their favorite team, now have trouble remembering what players are on the team. What has happened? As a Boston n~tive. I am parti~l of course, to the Red Sox. Let's take a look at some of their recent developments: They signed veteran pitcher Pedro Martinez to a hefty contract. Consequently, they raised ticket prices by four dollars per ticket. While this may help to pay Martinez' salary, what will the Red Sox do when far less fans attend games? Then, just a few days ago, role model and 1995 American League Most Valuable Player Mo Vaughn was arrested on charges of drunk driving. Throughout the Boston area and even the nation, Vaughn is a role model to children. lie has chosen to inject himself into many young lives. Does he not owe it to the children to live an exemplary life? What child is going to listen to someone who does not practice what he preaches? Not only c.lo vve have Vaughn, the drunk, there is also Roberto Alomar, the second baseman fi>rtllc- [ 3altimorc Ori()les, who spit on an umpire. And the final blow to baseball is Wayne flu?.icnga. owner ofth e World Champion Florida Marlins, who proceeded to sell off his entire tearnju..,t weeb after winning the World Series. Some teams pull off a miracle of going from wor~t to first, but has a team even gone fro1n first to worst in the fashion the Marlins most lil\el) will this season? The caliber of character today's players possess is on the decl inc. so who can blame people for turning away from the game? If children arc not introduced to baseball early in life. how will they ever come to appre- ciate basehalllatt:r in life\ Our society is too concerned with success and money to cherish baseball for wh;_!t it is- a game Y cars ago. baseball may have been the pillar of society, but this beautiful ganH.~ has bcco!Tlc an ugly business that h()lds the interest of very few people. The day~ of ba~c.:ball after sch oul and I istl!n ing to games on the radio at night are gone and the game ofba~chall is on the dcdine. It breaks my heart to say it, but the America's pass- time is most ucfinitt.:i; pa~t its prime. to findmernbers for this dream team. While it seems that Darryl Strawberry is always in trouble for something, the two players most deserving a spot on the team are former player Steve Howe and former Boston Red Sox Wilfreda Cordero. In 1997, Howe pleaded g11Hty to a gun possession charge and in the past has been under numerous dn:1gsuspensions. Cordero receives his ros- ter spot for the alleged beating of his wife, and proving to be an all-around great indi- vidual. Ina side note, it was nice to see Mo Vaughn carrying on Cordero's Red Sox tradition with his recent DUI to start the New Year. Marv Albert and OJ. Simpson will do the radio, TV, and all promotional work for my team. lf someone questions why, just go back and read any number of tabloids over the past two years. Now that this fictional team has been cre- ated, it is tough to tell what sport the mem- bers should play. Some of these athletes are all-stars, others are just want-to-be stars, and some are has-beens. After making my team, the athletes should donate 1998's pay to a children's charity established by the major sporting leagues. While tlle respective unions will complain about this idea, they only need to be reminded about the lucra- tive contracts and ticketprices that we, tile fans, constantly endure. After the donations, the athletes should be suspended for a year without pay. This would not mean they coLtld sit at home aad make commercials. No, these athletes should spend this year touri11g the nation's jails. Let's face the facts, ifthey want to act lik.e criminals then they sh<Juld play amongst criminals. I wonder if Mr. Sprewell would be likely to strangle ano1her coaclil if it were possible that a murderer serving life with out parole might strangle him. There never will be a team like this, but it would serve these great \sports heroes\ right. Maybe justice would finally be served to those who care about the games being played, and the kids who care about the play- ers. Good-bye 1997, hopefully you took the criminals with you. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * The sports pages are much nicer to be on. I hate op-ed because most of this campus takes life way too seriously. Threatening letters or cartoons is really a bit immature. Do you think? I was really pulling for John Elway to lose last weekend. No, the Steeler' s were not the better team, but the AFC is a joke and nc one deserved to lose the big one four times. Green Bay is going to win and by how much? Who really cares? I just want to know if Louie kills the Budweiser frogs. In closing, a prize is being offered for the student who comes up with the cleverest way to sneak an orange i11to the RPl game. If memory serves right, Security will be tak- ing all nominees names If you like to bet (which is against the law), take the Skating Dutchmen for 15 U dollars (the new currency of Schenectady). In The Spotlight ... A Look At Non- Varsity Sports and Athletes at Union byPikeMody Believe it or not, you are in fact reading an article in the Concordy ·by me that. is not about tile rugby team. In fact, if this turnS OUt tO be good and 1 can l.lSe Jhe pOWer ·Of persuasion to convince Chris Leone that it is a worthwhile endeavqr, this article l)lay actually turn ·into my very own co]Unin. For th.ose freshmen out there who wete denied the pleasure of the \up to the minu.te, fact finding rugby articles of high caliber wit and entertahmi.ene~ (as so .. 4escribedby Jay Goldberg) our campus has grown. to love, allow me to introduce myself. ·Myname. is. Pike~ and I play rugby. Enough with the fonnalities. For all of my fans who were denied the weekly onslaught ofplay-by·play analysis and · exciting description ofgame play thatmay or maynothavehappenecll ask for forgiveness because I was in China, learning the language, seeing the sights~ and of course, playing rugby. Yes, it was agreat.experience, a lot()ffun, and I wou~drecomm.end it to anyone~ thanks for asking. Anyway, back to the article.(or column as the case may be).· While in · China, we received the Concordy on a not s0 periodic schedille.' EaC:h week (or each · month I should say) I would eagerly await to hear of my team•s:exploits i>n the rugby pitch · that had happened around a month: earlier (give Qf take a few wee~s dependent upon the . how motivated the Chinese postal system was). With each issue of tile paper, I was disappointed not to fmdan article to let me know how things were fairing for my team. · So, I started thinking how unfair it was f<>r a group of individuals tO' be so dedicated to a teant\ practice everyday, travel all over the continent (and in some cases overseas) for games,. and go so completely unrecognized and unheralded for their efforts as is, say, our average varsity team athlete. With. my ego pumping, and arrogance in full gear, I conceived what l th.ink is a great idea(and this does not happen often so a little applause here wou'ld be appreciated). During winter term l competed for our Indoor Track team, who already has Jason Everett chronicling its every move into newspaper history. So, being th.atrugby is in the \off-season I thought I might spend winter tenn writing articles ab<Jut club and other non-varsity sports and the athletes thatplay them. We all know that theFe is a competitive cycling club, water polo club, and :karate club~ for the sake of example, ,b-ut we as students seldom hear about the teams as a ·whole orthe hard work and accompUs:hments that its members invest and obtain. In order to rectify this situation, each week for the rest ofthe term you can look formy article/column which will hopefully attempt to introduce, recog~ . · nize, and give some much deserved publicity to those programs. If you have any comments, suggestions for teams and athletes, or allY other need to send correspondence, feel free to address it to me at box 1490. The Sports Dept. is glad to have Pike Mody as the newest member of our growing staff' ofrepol'ters. ljyou have an idea for. a column give us a call at x6155. I,

'!\\'! ts ve ey ·a- he ld ris 1d Jd Is. {e ~st be re th it s\ ~d lg y- te !). lS tg e. ;e te 10 s. w :o te st te LJ ). '.( '. Sat., 11122197 Sat., 11/29197 Sur:~., 11./30/~7 12/3197 Sat, 12/6197 Sat., 1/10/98 Sun.; 1/t1J98 vs. Manhattanville Tue ..• 1/13/98 vs. RPI# Fri. 1/16198. vs. Skidmore# 6:00PM Sat, 11171~8 2:00PM Fri., 1/23/98 Smith# 6:00PM Sat., 1/24/98 2:00PM Tue., 1727/98 vs. Hartwibk 6:00PM Fri., 1/30/98 · vs. Clarkson# 6:00PM· Sat., 1/31198 vs. St. Lawrence .# 2:00PM Sat., 2nrss @Vassar Tue., 2/10/98 @RPI# Fri., 2/13/98 @Skidmore# 6:00PM Sat., 2114/98 vs. William Smith # 2:00PM Tue., 2/17198 @ Russell Sage 7:00PM Fri., 2/20/98 6:00PM Sat, 2/21/98 Clarkson# 2:pOPM Thu., 2/26198 · vs. Middlebury 7:00PM Men's·SwimmiJ1g (2~1, 1st in UCAA Meet) : Date : ··. · '.. T~am & location Sc~n:r ()t Time ,'t.-J~,,-_~ '~ > ~~ ' Union 130, Coast ·Guard 88, Hartwick Sat, 11/1/97 Union Relays 70, Spri:ngfield 64, . NYU 58, NewPaltz · 50, RPI 2(), Skid. & VassarO Sat., 11/15/97 @Rochester 167-72Win Sat., 11/22197 @Amherst 134-l04 Win Union 876.5, Hamilton 864.5, RPI 12/5/97-12/6/97 l:JCAA Championships 516 1 St. Lawrence . @RPI 392, Rochester 319.5, Clarkson 288, Skidmore 152 Sat., 1/1 0/98 @Williams 158-83 Loss Sat., 1/17/98 @Hartwick . '·-- - 2:00PM Wed., 1/21/98 @RPI 6:00PM Sat., 1/24/98 @ Middlebury 2:00PM Sat., 1/31f98 vs. Hamilton 2:00PM Sat., 2/7/98 vs. St. Lawrence 2:00PM 2/26/98-2128198 State Meet @ Hamilton TBA ... Special thanks t'o the Sports Information Department Fri., 11/21197 58-48 Loss Sat., 11/22/97 vs. Wesleyan 85-~7 Loss 1-0 Win 4-0 Loss Sat., 11129/97 ~9-S3 Loss Sun., 11/30/97 vs. Swarthmore 78-62 Win 4-1 Loss 3·3 Tie Tue., 1212/97 vs. Wesleyan 98-83 Win Fri., 1215/97 vs. Vassar T7-74Loss Fri., 1/9/98 vs. Haverford '54-4S Win Sat., 1110/98 vs. Swarthmore 82-38 Win 3-0 Loss Tue., 1/13/98 vs. RPI# 75-7() Win Sat., 12/27/97 5-2 Loss Fri., 1'116/98 vs. Skidmore # B:tOOPM 12{28197 Sat., 1117198 vs. Hamilton # 4:!()0PM Fri., 1/2/98 Tue., 1/20/98 vs. Utica 7;()0PM Sat., 1/3/98 5-4 Loss Fri., 1/23/98 @Hobart# 8:!()0PM Fri., 119/98 vs. Brown. 3-2 Loss Sat., 1/24/98 @Hamilton# 4:()0PM Sat., 1/1 0/98 vs. Harvard # 3-2 Loss Tue., 1/27/98 vs. Hartwick 8:!()0PM Sat., 1/17/98 vs. RPI# 7:00PM Fri., 1/30/98 vs. Clarkson# B:(]OPM 7:00PM Sat., 1131/98 vs. St. Lawrence# 4:()0PM 7:00PM Wed., 214/98 Williams B:()OPM 7:30PM Sat., 217/98 Kings Point 2:()QPM 7:00PM Tue., 2/10/9.8 @RPI# 8:[)QPM 7:30PM Fri., 2113/98 @Skidmore# 8:00PM vs. Clarkson # 7:00PM Sat., 2/14/98 vs. Hobart# 4:00PM Fri., 2/20/98 Dartmouth# 7:30PM 2121/98 7:00PM Fri., 2/27/98 7:30PM Sat., 2J28/9S. · 7:00PM Tue., 2117/98 Middlebury 7:00PM Fri.,,2120/98 @ St. Lawrence # 8:Q()PM Sat., 2/21 /98 @Clarkson# 4:00PM Fri., 3/6798 vs. Yale# 7:30PM Sat.,3/7/98 vs. Princeton # 7:00PM a----___;_~-~---------1 Women's Swimming (1 .. 2, 1st in UCAA Meet) Men's Indoor Track (Season Opens 1/17) Oat& Team & Location · Score or Time Sat, 1/17/98 @Hamilton 1:00PM Sat., 1/31/98 @Wesleyan 1:00PM Sat., 2/14/98 UCAA Meet @ RPI 11:00AM Sat., 2/21/98 .. . @Hamilton ln.vy 1:00PM Sat., 2/28/98 . State Meet @Union TBA · , Sat., 1/31/98 · Wesleyan t:OOPM Sat., 2/14/98 · UCAA Meet @ RPI 11:00AM sat.\ 2/21/98 1:00PM Sat, 2/28/9~ State Meet Union TBA (A# After a Team Denotes a League Game) · Source: http:/J\WMI,union.edu/UTODAY/SPORTSfWinter9798.htm Date . Team & Location . Sc::O!re e>rTime . . . ' Sat., 11/1/97 Union Relays Sat., 11/15/97 @Rochester Sat., 11/22197 @Amherst 1215197 _ 1216197 UCAA Championships @RPI Sat., 1/10/98 Williams Sat., 1/17/98 Hartwick Wed., 1/21/98 @RPI Sat., 1 /24/98 @ Middlebury Sat., 1JS1/98 vs. Hamilton Sat.,2!7/98 vs. St. Lawrence 2/19/98-2/21/98 State Meet @ Union Unii(JII114, Hart\Nick 106,.~pringfield 90, NYiU 80, ~-Jew Paltz 3~.RPI26,· Sk:ldmore, 16, Vassar2 '14 7-46Win 1:!i4-S7 Loss lfnioo 805, Hallililton 698.5, Rooester 528.5, Willia'm Smith 415, RPI 3fl1, Sl<idmore; 272. Stlawrence 269. 5, Clarkson 1 16~5-64.5 Loss 2:0fDPM -S:O()PM 2:01DPM 2:00PM 2:00PM TBA COME I.NTO .MbTO P.HOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! .SChen~tady- 1041 State Street- 382-5776 . . · ONEHOUn .~ .· · . - .MOTOPHOTO·· . 1 ' ' , ' , I I :> •.'I'

:s •e :y ~- te d is d d s. .e ~t •e ·e h it , d g ·- e l. s g . '• e e J '· v ) ' ,. ~ ;' Women's Basketball (3·6, 0·1 UCAA) ! • \, • •, u';:_.,.' \\\\\'':-'\,\'-,; \\~ •>\; •,,~<>'< ~'· • W ,> \ < • • • • • _,. . · . Date.<' t ·~:,:, ~·.; ieam & Location .. . Score or Time · >< • # '>~ '_,\ I:,._...~' ~ < ;'~,_ <. •;.. .. , ..,_,!\' '~' / > • • f ~ ' ' ' • • ,, ' Fri., 11121/97 vs. Cabrini 83-78 Win \Muhlenbe!1l Toumamem) !1, vs. Muhlenberg Sat, 11/22197 86-62 Loss (Mu~lenberQ Tournament) Sat., 11/29197 @ Southern Vermont 90-74 Win Sun., 11/30/97 @Brandeis 83-43 Loss Wed., 12/3/97 @Utica 76-62 Loss Sat., 12/6/97 @Williams 100-48 Loss Sat., 1/10198 vs. St. Joseph's 71-70 Loss (Union Invitational) Sun., 1/11/98 vs. Manhattanville 80-35 Win (Union Invitational) Tue., 1/13/98 vs. RPI # 67-58 Loss Fri., 1/16198 vs. Skidmore# 6:00PM Sat., 1/17/98 vs. Hamilton# 2:00PM Fri., 1/23198 @ William Smith # 6:00PM Sat., 1 /24/98 @Hamilton# 2:00PM Tue., 1/27/98 vs. Hartwick 6:00PM Fri., 1 /30/98 vs. Clarkson# 6:00PM Sat., 1/31/98 vs. St. Lawre1:1ce # 2:00PM Sat., 2/7/98 @Vassar 6:00PM Tue., 2/10/98 @RPI# 6:00PM Fri., 2/13/98 @Skidmore# 6:00PM Sat., 2/14/98 vs. William Smith # 2:00PM Tue., 2/17/98 @ Russell Sage 7:00PM Fri., 2/20/98 @St. Lawrence# 6:00PM Sat., 2/21198 @Clarkson# 2:00PM Thu., 2/26/98 vs. Middlebury 7:00PM Men's Swimming (2·1, 1st in UCAA Meet) ~:v·. :.~.,.,,.~~·'.\'A'-'\Th(.~~~):.~~k(·4~<':!0~~~'**E*'i~;\W:c~.~<:i~ '-'.:'(t .~h:.:~s~- ~\~'\'' .· . . ,;, ,,_ · .. <•: Da;. '~11J;\'' .~:'J:t,JI'iitrl:B, ocation: /; ·· · . core PtcTtme< .. '-\ • :.:\.;: ,>~;\'':':1:':f!W\''~~1':l~_::>a;A,;.,~'~Y,y'*'\\*'~~:(i#;%M>';<;',W..,...,..A;:,,,..>,~,~ , > '·' ;:.\ '•~''\•~-.!: ~' ·' ,{No Union 130, Coast Guard 88, Hartwick Sat., 11/1/97 Union Relays 70, Springfield 64, NYU 58, New Paltz 50, RPI20, Skid. & VassarO Sat., 11/15/97 @Rochester 167-72 Win Sat., 11/22/97 @Amherst 134-104 Win Union 876.5, Hamilton 864.5, RPI 12/5/97-12/6/97 UCM Championships 516, St. Lawrence @RPI 392, Rochester 319.5, Clarkson 288, Skidmore 152 Sat., 1/1 0/98 @Williams 158-83 Loss Sat., 1/17/98 @ Hartwicl( 2:00PM ' Wed., 1/21/98 @RPI 6:00PM Sat., 1/24/98 @ Middlebury 2:00PM Sat., 1/31/98 vs. Hamilton 2:00PM Sat., 2/7/98 vs. St. Lawrence 2:00PM 2/26/98-2/28/98 State Meet@ Hamilton TBA : ·.:' -~ri~~~~r~~~~¥~·~';i~\.tfie: Sports... ·. -:·. . -· Jnl~.~roati~f( B.~partment .. , •. ~~~.C·>< '· • ~\\<:'~-~·''-1.,'. ~ ,' ·. ' . ' \ . ' ... ,_< - •' ., . . ' ' . - Fri., 11/21/97 58-48 Loss Sun., 11/2/97 Sat. , 11/22197 vs. Wesleyan 85-57 Loss Fri., 11/7/97 vs. Vermont # 1-0 Win Sat., 11/8!97 vs. Dartmouth # 4-0 Loss Sat., 11/29/97 vs. Rochester 99-83 Loss Tue., 11/11/97 vs. RPI ( 3-2 Loss Sun., 11/30197 vs. Swarthmore 78-62 Win Sat., 11/15197 vs. Umass-Amherst 4-1 Loss Fri., 11/21/97 Clarkson# 3-3 Tie Sat., 11/22/97 St. Lawrence # 7-0 Loss Fri., 11/28/97 Neb.-Omaha 6-3 Loss Tue., 12/2/97 vs. Wesleyan 98-83 Win Fri., 12/5/97 vs. Vassar 77-74 Loss Fri., 1/9/98 vs. Haverford 54-48 Win Sat., 11/29/97 @ Neb.-Omaha 6-3 Win Fri., 12/5/97 vs. Cornell# 4-2Win Sat., 1/1 0/98 vs. Swarthmore 82-38 Win Sat., 12/6/97 vs. Colgate# 3-0 Loss Sat., 12/27197 Mankato State 5-2 Loss Tue., 1/13/98 vs. RPI # 75-70 Win Fri., 1116/98 vs. Skidmore # 8:00PM Sun., 12/28197 @ Mankato State 3-3 Tie (Of) Sat., 1/17/98 vs. Hamilton# 4:00PM Fri., 1/2/98 3-1 Loss Tue., 1/20/98 vs. Utica 7:00PM Sat., 1/3/98 5-4 Loss Fri., 1/23/98 @Hobart# 8:00PM Fri., 1/9/98 vs. Brown# 3-2 Loss Sat., 1/24/98 @Hamilton# 4:00PM Sat., 1 /1 0/98 vs. Harvard # 3-2 Loss Tue., 1/27/98 vs. Hartwick 8:00PM Sat., 1117/98 vs. RPI # 7:00PM Fri. , 1/30/98 vs. Clarkson# 8:00PM Fri., 1/23/98 7:00PM Sat., 1/31/98 vs. St. Lawrence # 4:00PM Sat., 1131/98 7:00PM Wed., 2/4/98 @Williams 8:00PM Fri., 2/6/98 @Harvard# 7:30PM Sat.,2/7/98 @ Kings Point 2:00PM Sat., 2/7/98 Brown# 7:00PM Tue., 2/10/98 @RPI# 8:00PM Fri., 2/13/98 vs. St. Lawrence # 7:30PM Fri., 2/1.3/98 @Skidmore# 8:00PM Sat., 2/14/98 vs. Clarkson# 7:00PM Sat., 2/14/98 vs. Hobart# 4:00PM Fri., 2/20/98 Dartmouth# 7:30PM Sat., 2/21/98 Vermont# 7:00PM Fri., 2/27/98 @Colgate# 7:30PM Sat., 2/28/98 Cornell# 7:00PM l'ue., 2/17/98 @Middlebury 7:00PM Fri., 2/20/98 @ St. Lawrence # 8:00PM Sat , 2/21 /98 @Clarkson# 4:00PM Fri., 3/6/98 vs. Yale# 7:30PM Sat., 317m3 vs. Princeton # 7:00PM 1--__;_-------------t Women's Swimming (1-2, 1st in UCAA Meet) Men's Indoor Track (Season Opens 1/1 T) Sat., 1/17/98 @Hamilton 1:00PM Sat., 1/31/98 @Wesleyan 1:00PM Sat., 2/14/98 UCM Meet @ RPI 11:00AM Sat., 2/21/98 @ Hamilton lnvy 1:00PM Sat., 2/28/98 State Meet@ Union TBA • , • ' • , lt •. . : ,. •• . ·Date · , . . · - Team & l:ocat10n: Score or 'I) me · • < • ~ •• • ' • • • Sat., 11/1/97 Union Relays Sat., 11/15/97 @Rochester Sat, 11/22/97 @Amherst Union 114. Hartwick 106, Springfield 90, NYU 80, New Paltz 38, RPI26, Skidmore, 16, Vassar2 147-46 Win 154-87 Loss 1215197 _ 1216197 UCM Championships Women's Indoor Track (Season Opens 1/17) @ RPI Union 805, Hamilton 698.5, Rochester 528.5, William Smith 415, RP1381, Skidmore, 272. St. Lawrence 1 '' • < , .. team & location Score· or T.i.pn: 1 ·< Date \' . ' ' ' Sat., 1/17/98 @Hamilton 1:00PM Sat., 1/J1/98 @Wesleyan 1:00PM Sat., 2/14/98 UCM Meet @ RPI 11:00AM Sat., 2/21/98 @ Hamilton lnvy 1:00PM Sat., 2/28/98 State Meet @ Union TBA (A# After a Team Denotes a League Game) Source: http://VNNJ.union.edu/UTODAY/SPORTS/Winter9798.htm Sat, 1/1 0/98 Sat, 1/17/98 Wed., 1/21/98 Sat., 1/24/98 Sat, 1/31/98 Sat.,2f7/98 2/19/98-2/21/98 @Williams @Hartwick @RPI @ Middlebury vs. Hamilton vs. St. Lawrence State Meet @ Union 269 .5, Clarkson 143.5 168.5-64.5 Loss 2:00PM 6:00PM 2:00PM 2:00PM 2:00PM TBA COME INTO MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! Schen~tady - 1 041 State Street - 382-5776 . . . ·. . . . ·. . ONEHOU/l · ·.· .. ·· .. · ··: · ..... ·.·· .· . ! • · . MOTr::>PHOTrG - · ~ • , l , { • ' ' ' • • I ' • • • ~ • .. . \

~ ! l >-. z tc:hmei1(~ j ' i I. ~~ ~ \ ;• . - { ~ •f ' ;. ,. ....-;:. ' .. ~ ., A lotJic • tie br«Ji; tlat 'MIIj tlllll 'fPIIat lies lllletld for a stntgglilc \\\'s ioclcq J.Wogm• J l 'J 1 I ·....- ] --- \ 195 ha\ on cor poi the da) the wh we of1 dec mi: ni~ in~ ril; Ur to SUI thf ter in~ ch H< l8 tei cc of th ti< tic b~ sr a< gJ is nc Ci it VI b a Sl jc 1 p d \

·-· ,· ~-. .::- t. A look at the break that 'WU.5j and wllut lies ahellil for a stntgglintlmea •s hockey program l 1 .. .. - I .. .. g he or cc pc th d< th w w o1 de m nl If ri L tc Sl tt tc; ir c 1- 1 -

i I I, I q ,.- YJ > <, ,> :' ,~ .< ' ; .,_,._:~ ·y.,<.~_' ':;<;.:·~ •• •~!'<•:\ .... ,,_-, •)',;,(' \·J· -~--~,;::_··.>:{''!?\- ,'>.\. ':< ~.:;-_:;:;!::·:· .' :~ ><' ~'5.fc :' :,\~,,'-' •• ;·~:~'~-.,.J ':'<\, ; ~<~ ~ .;;\:~<,--.~ j v,•;;t < J\ .-,~/ <, \ ·\·.-'. >< < ~ .. :,);,~( J -~.-' ',,\-:{' >v >>?:-< \_..-~\\,\:: ,<. t -'\\\< t'~>' ~.<\ ,;.~,·_.,v< <'~ • ;':¥ : ~--~> ~+:; :}/'•• t:t >'\~~ <r:-: ~ ~ ',:;:,.' t ')::.:&. ,' :; h.r .:' ,;, ~ ~.~ :-~' Please Union, N ott Again! The. Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 -~··----~~--- -----~ - _...,..._~,~- v~)llltnl l'XX\\Il. '\umber X · . Schcncctad>. Nc\\ Y\wk . · . . . . Janttal')<12.1998 Drinking, Ellis Trips Come to Forefront (Again) by Stephanie Slobotkin News Editor \This year, between 1997 and 1998 11 Union College students have been taken to EHis Hospital on Nott 'Street due to excessive consumption of alcohol.\ This point was m:ade by Dean Alford at the Town Meeting held on Tues- day, January 20, at 7:30 P.M. in the College Center Auditorium where the issues of alcoholism were discussed. The main focus of the meettngrevolved around the decision tllat was made by the ad;. · ministration to disallow·any frater- nity to regis:ter for a party this com- ing weekend. The decision was ba.sed prima- rily upon the knowledge that three Union stttdents had been escorted to Ellis Hospital upon the con- sumption oftoo muchalcohol. Of the three students who were writ- ten up on .i11cident reports as hav- ing been i)rought up on conduct charges, two wereescortedtoEil.is Hospital, between January 17th and l81h. Administration felt had Ellis tfospitafh-qs become .l()'(!jr~quent a d¢stinatiot~ otr weekends for sorne Union students. to draw the line bef01:e something, more serious occurred. Since last fallt four students have been brought to Ellis for excessive · the three recent incidents -..vereall students from the class of 2()0 1. Those indi-viduals chose not to disclose their names or the place of their alcohol consumption. However ·the fre$hmen allegedly had been seen~drinking prior to fraternity parties and during them as well. The firstperson was found passed out on her bed. The indi- vidualwassu from Union WRUC Board Fails.(Again!) by Alyscia Kuritz C~Jrtributing Writer hoursaday. This goalhasinspired · able the station to broadcast live the Executive Staff to take a seri- from the school's cam pus bar ous look at the station, recogniz- where hands perform has no way ing how far it has come, and how t() function without being con- far it has yet to -go: Steps to 11ected to the sound board; news strengthen the station from the in- programs and talk shows are lim- side out are being implemented. ited by these factors.; and ulti- \Wh.ile we initially planned to start mately aU shows suffer. When the process of renovation with a asked to comment on the situation, . , new transmitter, circumstances senior and six term disc jockey that have arisen over .the past sev- Michelle Jester stated, \I think that eral weeks have led us to the con- WRUC is one of the most impor- clusion that in order to handle such tant and rewarding student activi- a technical advancement, the e11- ties at Union. To lose it would be tire WRUC staff must first be pre- a tragedy. I sincerely hope that we pared, both in training and in pro- can act and keep from losing our duction planning.\ said General station.\ Manager, Michael DeMicco. The WRUC has asked for the finan- technical complications have been cial support it would take to get Int.' .. ··-\' both a blessing and a curse. While back on its feet. The cost of re- it has given the staff the opport\.1· pairs to the sound board has finan- lillie on January 20 with thee only op- tion of reapplying in the fall tertn and is dependent on !low much help she receives during this pe- riod. According to policy, when a student gets in trouble in alcohol related issues, they are putting themselves and others at risk and require help. If a stu;dent gets caught he or she get a warning and must provide the college with cer- tain services and attend counsel- ing and drug awareness programs. Th.is freshman had been warned twice; Dean Alford emphasized that if students do not learn from their mistakes they will pay for it. \This week we are going to stop and take a time out to figure out what to do,\ said Alford. The lead- ership organizations at the college, particularly the IFC, Panhellenic Council and SAC digested the is- sues,. but the student forum has yet to comment. The students have been confronted but tile problem of irresponsible drinking still ex- ists. Alford wants ttl get people talking, but is in no way directing continued on page 6 Recently, WRUC has encoun- tered tecbnical complications that could potentially lead to the end of its existence. The life span of the soun<l board, the most essen- tial piece ofequipment in the sta- tion, has been cut severely short by an accident that took place last spring. The residual effects of the accident have been growing pro- gressively worse as the equipment is strained on a daily basis. It was not until the first electrical short- age took. place that the Executive Staff was informed that a soda had been spi11ed into the sound board weeks prior. While the engineer found ancl fixed the initial techni- cal complications within the board, it was rt()t known at the time that whateve:r had been spilled would be the catalyst for the insurmount- able technical h·urdles that the sound board, and ultimately, the radio station, now faces. nity to reassess ·its priorities, it has c ially strained, if not paralyzed the ftf~ilfll!i!~~~~.-..,~----•••••••-llliiiiiilii&iitlliiilll~·~· rendered the station exceptionally station. The request includes the Thisyear, WRUChasmoredisc jockeys than it has had for years. This increased interest in partici- pation on the part of Union stu- dents has the potential to enable WRUC to broadcast twenty~four News: vulnerable. The sound board is the cost of a new sound hoard. Sev- mechanism through which all enty-five hundred dollars is the fi- other equipment functions. Due nancial assistance necessary to to numerous replacements andre· save the station. wiringattemptstofixtheproblems Where does WRUC stand? that arose, two of the compactdisc When the sound board .goes, so players are no longer able to func· could the oldest station in the na- tion through the board. We have tion. The Executive Staffs bud- lost two microphones to audio get has allocations set by the Stu- fee.dback complications; the dent Forum which allot it only a Chet's line that was going to en-. continued an page 5 A&'E Construction Update Page 5 Top Film Rentals Page 18

Please Union, N ott Again! The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Drinking, Ellis Trips Come to Forefront (Again) by Stephanie Slobotkin News Editor \This year, between 1997 and 1998 11 Union College students have been taken to Ellis Hospital on Nott street due to excessive consumption of alcohol.\ This point was made by Dean Alford at the Town Meeting held on Tues- day, January 20, at 7:30 P.M. in the College Center Auditorium where tile issues of alcoholism were discussed. The main focus of the meeting revolved around the decision that was made by the ad- ministration to disallow any frater- nity to register for a party this com- ing weekend. The decision was based prima- rily upon the knowledge that three Union students had been escorted to Ellis Hospital upon the con- sumption of too much alcohol. Of the three students who were writ- ten up on incident reports as hav- ing been brought up on conduct charges, two were escorted to Ellis Hospital between January 17'h and 18th. Administration felt they had David IVIe<>nPrll Ellis Hospital has become too frequent a destination on weekends for some Union stl.dents. to draw the line before something were all students from the class of had been seen drinking prior to more serious occurred. 200 L Those individuals chose not fraternity parties and during them Since last fall, four students have to disclose theirnames or the place as well. The first person was found been broughtto Ellis for excessive of th.eir alcohol consumption. passed out on her bed. The indi- drinking; the three recent incidents However, the freshmen allegedly vidual was su from Union on January 20 witb the only op- tion of reapplying in the fall term and is dependent on how much help she receives during this pe- riod. According to policy, when a student gets in trouble in alcohol related issues, they are putting themselves and others at risk and require help. If a student gets caught he or she get a warning and must provide the college with cer- tain services and attend counsel- ing and drug awareness programs. This freshman had been warned twice. Dean Alford emphasized that if students do not learn from their mistakes they will pay for it. 'This week we are going to stop and take a time out to figure out what to do,\ said Alford. The lead- ership organizations at the college, particularly the IFC, Panhellenic Council and SAC digested the is- sues, but the student forum has yet to comment. The students have been coAfronted but the problem of irresponsible drinking still ex- ists. Alford wants to get people talking, but is in no way directing continued on page 6 WRUC Board Fails (Again!) by Alyscia Kuritz Contributing Writer Recently, WRUC has encoun- tered technical complications that could potentially lead to the end of its existence. The life span of the sound board, the most essen- tial piece of equipment in the sta- tion, has been cut severely short by an accident that took place last spring. The residual effects of the accident have been growing pro- gressively worse as the equipment is strained on a daily basis. It was not unti 1 the first electrical short- age to<lk place that the Executive Staff was informed that a soda had been s~illed into the sound board weeks prior. While the engineer found and fixed the initial techni- cal complications within the board, it was not known at the time that whate\Ver had been spilled would be the catalyst for the insurmount- able technical hurdles that the sound board, and ultimately, the radio station, now faces. Thisyear, WRUC has more disc jockeys than it has had for years. This increased interest in partici- pation on the part of Union stu- dellts h.as the potential to enable WRUC to broadcast twenty-four News: hours a day. This goal has inspired the Executive Staff to take a seri- ous look at the station, recogniz- ing how far it has come, and how far it has yet to go. Steps to strengthen the station from the in- side out are being implemented. \While we initially planned to start the process of renovation with a new transmitter, circumstances that have arisen over the past sev- eral weeks have led us to the con- clusion that in order to handle such a technical advancement, the en- tire WRUC staff must firstbe pre- pared, both in training and in pro- duction planning.\ said General Manager, Michael DeMicco, The technical complications have been both a blessing and a curse, While it has given the staff the opportu- nity to reassess its priorities, it has rendered the station exceptionally vulnerable. The sound board is the mechanism through which all other equipment functions. Due to numerous replacements andre- wiring attempts to fix the prob I ems that arose, two of the compact disc players are no longer able to func- tion through the board. We have lost two microphones to audio feedback complications; the Chet's line that was going to en- Construction Update Page 5 able the station to broadcast live from the school's campus bar where bands perform has no way to function without being con- nected to the sound board; news programs and talk shows are lim- ited by these factors; and ulti- mately all shows suffer. When asked to comment on the situation, senior and six term disc jockey Michelle Jester stated, \I think that WRUC is one of the most impor- tant and rewarding student activi- ties at Union. To lose it would be a tragedy. I sincerely hope that we can act and keep from losing our station.\ WRUC has asked for the finan- cial support it would take to get back on its feet. The cost of re- pairs to the sound board has finan- cially strained, if not paralyzed the I ~-llllilitiii~,..,..-...-.:,..-.,-~----~ ... -.~.-~-iiiii~iiiiil station. The request includes the cost of a new sound board. Sev- enty-five hundred dollars is the fi- nancial assistance necessary to sa\Ve the station. Where does WRUC stand? When the sound board goes, so could the oldest station in the na- tion. The Executive Staffs bud- get has allocations set by the Stu- dent Forum which allot it only a continued on page 5 A&E Top Film Rentals Page 18 Sports: Hockey Falls to RPI Page 21

The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectatly 's Oldest Newspaper Jonathan Gasthalter and Frank Rossi EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Amy DiBattista EXECUTIVE EDITOR Christopher Leone MANAGING EDITOR . Peter Simon OPINIONS EDITOR Michael DeMiccu Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITORS . Christopher Leone SPORTS EDITOR Lori Green Kim Rohback ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT EDITORS Robert Hagopian COMPUTER MANGAGER Michelle Tham FEATURES EDITOR Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Victoria Hargreaves SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDITOR Jennifer Pelose COPY EDITOR Aaron Braunstein Dave Meguerdichian PHOTOED/TORS Scott ScuiJion FACULTY ADVISOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: llaley Klein, Rick Lederer, Sloan Miller, Cory Silken, Kate Stefanik, Maura Woessner. STAFF: Matt Aronvwitz, Anjali Balasingham, Kelen Barr, Hannah Blum, Tracy Boriskin, Jamie Chandler, Jay Co11nelly, Paul D'Annibale, Shana Dangelo, Jim DeWan, Jason Everett, David Kay, Adrian MacLean, Connor McKenzie, Pike Mody, Nick Papanickolas, Lisa Pertoso, Lee Polikoff, Aileen Quigley, Eugene Schultz, Neha Shah, Rebecca Thyresson, David Weiner, Maura Wittbold. News. Campus Security Report UNION COLLEGE CA.MPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIOENT SUMMARY MONDA'Y, JANUARY 12, l998THROUGH SUNDAY, JANUAR¥18, 1998 2:18PM 2:24PM 3 :()9 AM 3:42PM 9:.55 PM !1:54PM 1:32AM 1:37AM 12:()5 PM 7:1~ PM 9:1() PM 9:32PM 10:34- PM II :28 PM II :41 PM LOCATION Davidson South Cpllege Gepetto' s Restaurant North Terrace Lane Alumni Gym Becker Circle Psi Upsilon Huntley Lane West CoiJege Fox House Fox/Davidson Social Science Area Achilles Rink Potter House West College Wade Lupe Fox House SUNDAY, JANUARY 18, 1998: 12:09 AM Davidson 2:53AM Achilles Rink Area 3:3(). PM Schaffer Library 5:35PM West College 7:2() PM Potter House J fl' .. INCIDENT OFF CAMPUS INCIDENT: Assist local police with felony a.rrest of construction worker regarding an incident that occurred off campus . VANDALISM: Chairs from study area thrown down stairs- damaged. Also, broken beer bottles found in stairwell and hallway. THEFT/RECOVERY: Laptop computer stolen from student's unlocked room. Computer later found in lounge area. NOISE COMPLAINT: Alleged noise coming from student's apartment. Unsubstantiated. THEFT: Student's jacket stolen from restaurant. Car keys in pocket. PROPERTY MISSING: Padlock for barrier chain missing. TRESPi'\SS: Group ofteenagers entered gym without authorization. They refused. to present lD. Advised off campus. MINOR FIRE: Officer checking t4e building found minor .fire cause by electrical short in main power line to the building. SFD and NIMO notified. No damage. Power to building cut off pending repairs. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Snow falling from roof ef South College damaged visitor's car that was parked in the lot. SAFETY HAZARD: Residence entry door lock rendered inoperable. Condition was corrected. Found inoperable again at I :30AM. Life Safety Violation Notices filed. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Visitor struck eampus safety car with snow/ice ball. Suspect apprehended and identified. Was a guest of a Union student. No damage to vehicle. VANDALISM: Wooden bench from Rathskellar area was thrown down concrete stairs. Bench VIas smashed apart. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student became ill due to alcohol consumption. Paramedics responded. Conduct Charges filed. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Tampering with room smoke detector. Life Safety Violatio11 Notice filed. SAFETY HAZARD: Snow falling off of roof over main entrances to Fox and Davidson buildings. Officers posted notices and stoo<l by to warn residents until snow cleared. VANDALISM: Protective grate covering light was damaged. SAFETY HAZARD: Oranges thrown onto playing surface during varsity hockey game. Several spectators identified. Subjects were ejected from the game and Conduct Charges were filed . VANDALISM: Courtesy telephones at entrances to DG & SDT were damaged. THEFT: Student's room key was staten. Inadvertently left in lock core. Core changed. NOISE COMPLAINT: Resi(Jent complained about noise coming from student's apartment. Complaint confirmed-residents complied. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student became i1'1 due to alcohol consumption. Paramedics notified. Student taken to Ellis Hospital. Conduct Charges filed. FIRE ALARM: Fire alarm activated by guest removing room smoke detector from ceiling. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. VANDALISM: False activation of emergency telephone. Whell campus officers responded they found that the ·emergency phone receiver and number pad had been damaged. ' THEFT: Student's jacket stolen. Left unattended at study area for a short time while student went to the st~tcks to get books, SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor of marijuana reported. Report confirmed ~d s~urce identified No one in the area at the time. PROP:ERTY DAMAGE: Storm window broken. Cause u ndeterm !ned. If You Are Interested In Writing, Copy Editing, Laying Out, or Taking Photographs, Attend the Next Meeting of The Concordiensis Tonight ~t 6:·30p~,_ .. .. .. he ft; T' bt w Cl jo g~ ar an er af U: ic~ pr pt w: Stl wl m gr \V th( de fir th~ pu Da en: \VI wa the ce~ Un a s1 stu im] inv ' Ch1 Sig tha my hm off J c 199 ate: Pro Tra Prir que coli cha1 gior Stat atth der! Tex

Pag-e 2 • January 22, 1998 • 'ID~e (f!omtJTilientds • The Student Newspaper of U11.ion College Since 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper J(')nathan Gasthalter and Frank Rossi EDITORS-IN-( 'HJEF Arn y DiBattista EXECUTIVE EDITOR Christopher Leone MANAGING EDITOR Peter Simon OPINIONS EDITOR Mic:hael DeMicco StEphanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITORS Christopher Leone SPORTS EDITOR L<>ri Green I<i.a Rohback ART'S & ENTERTAINMENT EDTTORS Robert Hagopian COMPUTER MANGAGER Michelle Tham FEATURES EDITOR Erika Mancini . EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Victoria Hargreaves SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDITOR Jennifer Pelose COPY EDITOR Aaron Braunstein Dave Meguerdichian PHOTO EDITORS Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: Haley Klein, Rick Lederer, Sloan Miller, Cory Silkf;!ll, Kate Stefanik, Maura Woessner. .')T.·IFF Matt Aronowitz, Anjali Balasingham, Kelen Barr, Hannah Elur'll, Tracy Boriskin, Jamie Chandler, Jay Connelly, PauiD'Annibale, Slu!la Dangelo, Jim DeWau, Jason Everett, David Kay, Adriau \1~c:Lean Connor McKenzie, Pike Mody, Nick Papanickolas, Lisa Pe-rtoso, Lee Polikoff, Aileen Quigley, Eugene Schultz, Neha Shah, Rebecca Thyresson, David Weiner, Maura Wittbold. · ..... ·~Inside ·T:Iiis'lss·ue· .. _· .. · : . ~ . . ' . ~ (: ' ' ' . . ' ' . ' ' . ' . ·. · ..... - . News 3 Opinions and Letters 8 Science & Technology 10 Features 14 Arts & Entertainment 18 Dutchmen Sports 20 Campus News Campus Security Report UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT WEEKLY INCIOENT SUMMARY 1\I(}NDAY, JANUARY 12, 1998THROUGH SUNDAY, JANUARY 18,1998 DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY, JANU\RY 12, 1998: 10:41 AM Olin Construction Site 2:18PM Davidson 2:24PM South College TUESDAY, JANU;ftRY 13, 1998: I :05 AM \Nade Lupe 3:09AM Gepetto's Restaurant WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14,1998: 4:41 PM N(}rth Terrace Lane 7:59 PM Alumni Gym THURSDAY, JANUi\.RY 15, 1998: No serious incidents reported. FRIDAY, JANUAR. Y 16, 1998: I :27 PM Child Care Center 3:42PM Bcch:r Circle 9:55PM i>si Upsilon II :54 PM l[untley Lane SATURDAY, JANUARY 17, 1998: 12: 18 AM R athskellar 1:32AM I :37 AM 12:05 PM 7:18PM 9:10PM 9:32PM 10:34 PM II :28 PM 11:41 PM West College Fox House Fox/Davidson Social Science Area Acililles Rink P01tter House West Collc>ge Wade Lupe FO>\ lloust.: SUNDAY, JANUARY 18, 1998: 12:09 AM Dillvidson 2:53AM Ac:hilles Rink Area 3:30PM SclhafTer Library 5:35PM West C\ollegc 7:20PM Potter House INCIDENT OFF CAMPUS INCIDENT: Assist local police with felony arrest of construction worker re,garding an incident that occurred off campus. VANDALISM: Chairs nom study area thrown down stairs- damaged. Also, broken beer bottles found in stairwell and hallway. THEFT/RECOVERY: Laptop computer stolen from student's unlocked room. Computer later found in lounge area. NOISE COMPLAI'NT: Alleged noise coming from student's apartment. Unsubstantiated. THEFT: Student'sjacket stolen from restaurant. Car keys in pocket. PROPERTY MISSING: Padlock for barrier chain missing. TRESPASS: Group ofteenagers entered gym without auth.<Jrization. They refused to present !D. Advised off campus. MINOR FIRE: Officer checking the building found minor fire cause by electrical short in main power line to the building. SFD and NIMO notified. No damage. Power to building Cl:lt off pending repairs. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Snow falling from roof of South College damaged visitor's car that was parb:d in the lot. SAFETY HAZARD: Residence entry door lock rendered inoperable. Condition was corrected. Found inoperable again at I :30AM. Life Safety Violation Notices filed. MISCHIEVOUS BEHAVIOR: Visitor struck campus safety car with snow/ice ball. Suspect apprehended and identified. Was a guest of a Union student. No damage to vehicle. VANDALISM: Wooden bench from Rathskellar area was thrown down concrete stairs. Bench was smashed apart. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Student became ill due to alcohol consumption. Paramedics responded. Conduct Charges filed. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Tampering with room smoke detector. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. SAFETY HAZARD: Snow falling off of roof over main entrances to Fox and Davidson buildings. Officers posted notices and stood by to warn residents until snow cleared. VANDALISM: Protective grate covering light was damaged. SAFETY HAZARD: Oranges thrown onto playing surface during varsity hockey game. Several spectators identified. Subjects were ejected from the game and Conduct Charges were filed . VANDALISM: Courtesy telephones at entrances to DG & SDT were damaged. THEFT: Student's room l<ey was stol'en. Inadvertently left in lock core. Core changed. NOISE COMPLAINT: Resident complained about noise coming from student's apartment. Complaint confirmed-residents complied. SUBSTANCE ABUSE; Student became ill due to alcohol constLmption. Paramedics notified. Student taken to Ellis Hospital. Conduct Charges filed. FIRE ALARM: Fire alarm activated by guest removing room smoke detector from ceiling. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. VANDALISM: False activation of emergency telephone. When campus officers responded they found that the emergency phone receiver and number pad had been damaged. THEFT: Student's jacket stolen. Left unattended at study area for a short time while student went to the stacks to get books. SUBSTANCE ABUSE: Odor of marijuana reported. Report confirmed .and source identified. No one in the area at the time. PROPERTY DAMAGE: Storm window broken. Cause undetermined. If You Are Interested In Writing, Copy Editing, Laying Out, or Taking Photographs, Attend the Next Meeting of The Concordiensis Tonight at 6:30pm 1 he fe: To bn wa cu: jO) ge1 anc anc era ap] Un ics pre pu wa stu IVh lik grc \W the. der fin the: pus Da' era1 \W wa) the~ ces: Unc a st< stuc imp inv( VI Chr Sigr that my 1 how offt l b G 199~ ate r Pro1 Trar Prin1 quer co lie chan gion State atth< derg Texa

.. '• v: ' ·• ' •. Professors React to Vandalism Campus News by Mi~hael DeMicco News Editor At an infonnal meeting with the heads ofCampus Operations, Pro- fessor Und.erwood, Professmr Tobiessen, and Professor Hatke brought up the disturbing trend to- ward campus vandalism. lts fo- cus encompassed the growing en'- joyment that people seem te. be getting from uprooting saplings and bushes. Subsequent meetings and discussions have led to sev- eral ideas to arol!se more student appreciation for, Union's aesthet- ics. One that was proposed by Cam- pus Operations. was to have the students~ input on where tlley would like to 1\ave the grounds fixed. \We want to pose these ideas to stu- dents so we can find out where they think the eyesores are on cam- pus and then correct them\ saicl David Grzybowski, Campus Op- erations Director. He continued, \We feel that this would be a great way to help the students feel like they are a part of the whole pro- cess.\ While· he and Professor Underwood feel like this would he a start in the right direction, do the students think that this problem is important enough for them to be involved? When asking random students, Chris Frazer, member ofthe Kappa Sigma Fraternity, stated, \I find that the problem has not crossed my mind that frequently. I do feel however, that when the ivy is taken offthe walls of some buildings, it d()es detract from the academic feel of the campus. Does this mean l think students should ·plan the way th(! campus looks? No I don't. However, I strongly feel it is a hei- nous and unfortunate act when stu~ dents find it amusing to destroy their own school.\ The s.econd idea that was pro- posed by Professor Underwood· and his colleagues was to declare the campus a National Arboritum. This is the most likely option the school would take, according to Dave Grzybowski. Swathmote College {which had much the same experience) in Pennsylvania has already taken this path and is en- joying pleasant results. \With Jackson's Gardens in our posses- sions, we already have a great an- chor to help us along\ explained Grzybowski. The process needs further investigation before it can be decided whether or not it will be a viable route for the campus to take. When asked if Campus OperaM tions would stop landscaping in ar- eas of high vandalism like the grass area in front of South Col- lege, Grzybowski said, \We want to make the place look nice. You don't cure vandalism by not fix- ing it. That would be letting those people win. Itis important to con- · The Society, Thurston House, Ludlow, and Theta Delta Chi are tinue to fight back by not letting undergoing evaluation by the Student Affairs Council for renewal of those people ruin our campus.\ In their housing privileges. Any member of the College community who the past year, almost a dozen sap- would like to submit comments about any of these houses is encour- lings. have been uprooted. Over • aged to do so. the summer, someone tried to chop , The SAC is primarily concerned with two questions: Does this group down a 40-foot spruce. · · use their house to improve the cultuml, intellectual, and social life of With a budget of almost campus?; Is the collective lifestyle ofthe house conducive to academic $70,0(:)0, Campus Operations in achievement? Please send ·comments to SAC c/o Dean of Students the past several years has been try- Office or to SAC c/o Professor Jim Adrian, Chair Chemistry Dept. ing to focus on the college grounds. They have acquired an An ad hoc committee has been formed to consider making a recom- additional 50,000 dollars fr<>m ran- mendation to the Board of Trustees to change the college motto from dom sources to aid them in their , , \Sous Ies lois de miverve ncus devenons tous freres\ to \Sous les Ibis plight. One last idea tint was de Minerve nous devenons to us unis\ to represent the college's coedu- posed in an inter- view with Profes- sor Underwood was a Campus Photo contest. Each student would annually submit photos of . the school they have taken, and the best one would · win a prize. Underwood felt that this seems to be the most feasible and fun way of getting the campus more in· volved with the environment · around us. To make these ideas · work and to correct the vandalism problem the school has been hav- ing, please contact either David Grzybowski or Professor Underwood with your feeli:ngs on these ideas. L~st but not least, Union's grounds happen to play a large part in the school's admissions process. Dan Lundqu'ist, Dean of Admis- sions, stated that, \The vast major- ity of students and parents who visit ... cite that the feel and the appearance of the campus are an influential factor in their decision to attend the school.\ cational character. Please submit any input to Joe Zolner '76 Ad Hoc Committee Chair, Union College, Lamont House Graduate Center, Schenectady, NY 12308 (Phone: 518-388-6447, Fax: 518-388-6686, E-mail:zolnerj@union.edu) n() later than February 1, 1998. A committee has been formed to review the professional performance ofGail Goldennan, Electronic Media Librarian in Schaffer Library. Any members ofthe college community who wish to provide written comment about her performance contact a rnember of the committee, care of Schaffer Library, by January 30. The Robert Avon Smith, Cias·s of 1952 fellowship is awarded to stu- dents in the sciences or engineering programs who participate in a sum- mer research program in bio-medical engineering under the guidance of Union College faculty. F<Jr applications, please contact Professor J. Richard Shane brook in the Department of Mechanical Engineering. The Faculty Development Committee is now soliciting proposals for faculty and scholarship activities. Applications are available in Dean Sorum's Office. The deadline for submission of proposals is February 19, I 998. January 23rd: January 24th: January 25th: January 28th: January 29th: January 30th: Sorority Rush Schedule Informal third night of Rush: 5-8: 15pm (2 houses/ I hr. skits, meet@ Alps) Informal fourth night of Rush: 5-8: 15pm (2 housesf1hr. skits, meet@ Alps) Rushee Invitations: Begins at 4pm Humanities & Social Sciences (See Rho-Chi) Fifth night of Rush 6-8:45pm (3 houses/45 min, Theme Night, meet@ Alps) Rushee Invitations: Begins at 7pm Humanities & Social Sciences (See Rho-Chi) Preference Night 6-8:45pm Alutn Engineer Brings Hotne Prize (2 Houses/75 min, Meet @ Alps) The Schaffer Library is looking, tentatively, to move Special Collec- tions and the Schaffer Library basement (bound periodicals, micro- forms, maps) into the new building in about mid-February. All materi- als currently in the old basement will be accessible immediately fol- lowing the shift. by Professor Fr.ank Wicks Contributing Writer Gretchen Voegler, Class of 1997, performed her undergradu- ate research under the direction of Professor Anderson on \Heat Transfer Enhancement for a Printed Circuit Board\ and subse- quently won the 40 engineering college American Society of Me- chanical Engineers (ASME) Re- gion III Speaking Contest at Penn State in April. She also presented at the National Conference on Un- dergradua:te Research in A us tin Texas. Her triumph in ASME Region li I qualified her to compete in the Old Guard Competition at the A SME International Mechanical Engineering Congress & Exposi- tion held this week in Dallas. Voegler , who is now employed as an engineer by the Martin Marietta Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory and is beginning .,graduate work at Rensselaer Poly- technic Institute, this week trav• eled to Dallas to compete nation- ally against 12 other regional win- llers. Voegler honored herself and Union College with a 3rd place fin- ish along with $1,000 prize. Judging such an event is diffi- cult as a result of the differing top- ics and presentation styles. My impression from the audience was that Voegler excelled in terms of substance that was presented with a quiet confidence. She had the most questions from the audience that she handled ex- ceptionally well. Thus, while a third place finish was impressive, her performance had first place potentiaL Congratulations to Gre.tcben Voegler and Professor Ann Ander- son for advising her research. Courtsey of Mechanical Engineering Gretchen Jloegler in lJa/la~ with Fonner President of the ASMEDr Nancy Fitzroy •The Special Collections unit will be closed from January 19- February 24 for packing, relocation, and unpacking. • The library staff expects t<> move the remainder of the old library into the new building during the Spring Break. The Library will be closed for that entire week (March 21-29). • The Libary Circulation/Reserve Dept. wiiJ be in touch with faculty soon about the sclleduling of Reserves requests and the return of books during the second move. • As always, we will make every effort to minimize the nega- tive impact of these dislocations on the Union College faculty, staff, and students. The Mrs. Edwin L. Rich Prize is awarded to the student \who has built the best collection of books for use during college.\ The prize, a $300 gift certificate, wiJI be awarded this year. The collection should be a comprehensive and humane one, promoting development of both char- acter and intellect Guidelines: 1) The number of volumes in the candidate library must be at least fifty books owned by the student and marked with his/her name or bookplace. 2) Paperbacks may be included; college textbooks may not. 3) The collection .must be centered around a theme; either a particu- lar subject, or author, or time period. The student must provide a single page essay describing the collection, how and why it was formed, and how it is most used by the student. This essay should include some mention of plans for additional development of the library, with ex- amples of authors, topics, or specific titles. 4) The collection should reflect use for college studies or research. Schedule: a) The contestant must submit a list ofhis/her books, and the afore- mentioned essay, to Maribeth Krupczak, Schaffer Library. Deadline for submission is March 30th, 1998. b) Judging will take place in early April at the student's residence.

Professors React to Vandalism by Michael DeMicco News Editor At an info11i11a:l meeting with the heads of Campus Operations, Pro- fessor Underwood, Professor Tobiessen, and Professor Hatke brought up ih e disturbing trend to- ward campus vandalism. Its fo- cus encompassed the growing en- joyment that people seem to be getting from uprooting saplings amd bushes. Subsequent meetings and discussions have led to sev- eral ideas to arouse rnore student appreciation for Union's aesthet- ics. One that was proposed by Cam- pus Operations was to have the students' input on where they WQuld lik-: to have the grounds fixed. \We want to pose these ideas to stu- dents so we can find out where they think the eyesores are on cam- pus and then correct them\ said David Grzybowski, Campus Op- erations Director. He continued, \We feel thatthis would be a great way to help the students feel like they are a part of the whole pro- cess.\ While he and Professor Underwood feel like this would be a start in the right direction, do the students th Ill k that this prob I em is important enough for them to be involved? When asking random students, Chris Frazer, member of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity, stated, \I find that the problem has not crossed my mind that frequently. r do feel however, that when the ivy is taken offthe walls of some buildings, it does detract from the ~cfldemic feel ofthecampus. Does this mean I think students should pl~n the way the campus looks? NOt I don't. However, I strongly feel it is a hei- nous and unfortunate act-when stu- dents find it amusing tm destroy their own school.\ The second idea that Wtas pro- posed by Professor Und-erwood and his colleagues was to dedare the campus a National Al'booritum. This is the most likely ()plian the school WQu)d take, accor·ding to Dave Grzybowski. Swa: thnwre College (which had much 1lue same experience) in Pennsylv~nia has already taken this path ancl is en- joying pleasant results. \With Jackson's Gardens in our p()sses- sions, we already have a greeat an- chor to help us along\ explained Grzybowski. The process needs further investigation bef0 re: it can be decided whether or nol it will be a viable route for the c~mpus to take. When asked if Campus; Opera- tions would stop landscapillg in ar- eas of high vandalism [ike the grass area in front of South Col- lege, Grzybowski said, \We 'lvant to make the place look nice_ You don't cure vandalism by Jlot fix- ing it. That W<lUid be lettirJg tl10se people win. It is important to con- tinue to fight back by not letting those people ruin our campus.\ In the past year, almost a dozen sap- lings have been uprooted. Over !he summer, someone tried to chop · down a 40-foot spruce. With a budget of almost S70,000, Campus Operations in the p>ast several years has been try- ing to focus on the college grounds. They have acquired an additional 50,000 doHars from ran- dom sources to aid them in their plight. One last idea that was posed in an inter- view with Profes- sor Underwood was a Campus Photo contest. Each student would annually submit photos of the school they have taken. and the best one v·:ould win a prize. Underwood fe It that this seems to be the most feasible and fun way of getting the campus more in- volved with the environment around us. To make these ideas v;ork and to correct the vandal ism problem the school has been hav- ing, please contact either David Grzybowski or Professor UnderwoQd with your feelings on lilese ideas. Last but not least, Union's grounds happen to play a large pat1 i11 the school's admissions process. llan Lundquist. Dean of Admis- sions, stated that. ''The vast major- ity of students and parents who vis it ... cite that the fee I and the aJJpearance of the campus are an innuentiai factor in their decision to attend the school.\ Alutn Engineer Brings Hotne Prize by Professor Fr.ank Wicks Colltr;buting Writer Gretchen Voegler, Class of 1997, performed her undergradu- ate research under the direction of Professor Anderson on \Heat Transfer Enhancement for a Printed Circuit Board\ and subse- quently won the 40 engineering college American Society ofMe- chanical Engineers (ASME) Re- gion III Speaking Contest at Penn State in April. She also presented at the National Conference on Un- dergraduate Research in Austin Texas. Her triumph in ASME lle,gion III qualified her to compete in the Old Guard Competitio11 at the ASME International Mec h~nical Engineering Congress & Expos i- tion held this week in Dallas. Voegler, who is now en1lJ>\Ioyed as an engineer by the Jvla.rti n Marietta Knolls Atomic P'0ower Laboratory and is beg im!iing graduate work at Rensselaer J> o ly- technic Institute, this wee:k trav- eled to Dallas to compete nat ion- ally against 12 other regior.al win- ners. Voegler honored herseltf and Union College with a 3rd pl~ce fin- ish along with $1,000 prize. Judging such an event is diffi- cult as a result of the differing top- ics and presentation styles. My impression from the audience was that Voegler excelled in terms of substance that was presented with a quiet confidence. She had the most questions from tlu audience that she handled ex- ceptionally well. Thus, while a tllird place finish was impressive, her performance had first place potential. Congratulations to Gretchen V .oegler and Professor Ann Ander- son for advising her research. Courtsey of Mechanical Engineering Gretchen Voeg/er in Dallas with Former President t!!{t,le ASME Dr Nancy Fitzroy Campus News The Society, Thurston House, Ludlow, ami 'Theta Ddta Clli are undergoing evaluation by the Student Affairs <::uuncil for renewal of their housing privileges. Any member of the C()llege community who wmdd like to submit comments about any of these houses is el1cour- aged to do so. The SAC is primarily concerned with two questions: Does this g,ro!!p use their house to improve the cultural, intellectual, and social life of campus?; Is the collective lifestyle of the house conducive to aca<lemic achievement? Please send comments to SAC c/() DtaA of Students Office or to SAC c/o Professor Jim Adrian, ChiiirChemistry Dep1. An ad hoc committee llas beeR fanned to cons;ider making a recom- mendation to the Board of Trustees to change tlhe college motto from \Sous les lois de mivene no us devenons tous freres\ to \Sous les lois de Minerve nous devenons tous unis\ to represent tile college's coedu- cational character. Please submit any input to Joe 2olner '76 Ad Hoc Committee Chair, Union College, Lamont Ho;use Graduate Center, Schenectady, NY 12308 (Phone: 5 18-388-6447, F<t\: 518-388-6()8(), E-maiholnerj@union.edu) no later than February 1. 1998. A committee has been formed tore\ ic\\ the prof~ ~siL)It<tl perf1>rmann: ofGail Golderman, Electronic Media Libraria11 in Sch.tfkr Libt-<lt\). An:-. n1cmbers of the college commttnil~ \\htl 11 i>.ll to prv\ tJ~· 11 ritto:.:11 cotnll1L'nt about ha performance contact a mem !'\-'~\ t>f the conl!IJ!tll:t.'. GHL:: ur Schaffer Library. by January 30. Tht.\ Robert A von Smith, Class of I 952 fe lim\ ~~1i p is a11 ankJ tu ~t u- dcn ts in the sciences or engineering programs\\ h o pmticipate in a ,tll11- mer research program in bio-mi!Jical engillel!ring liiH.kr the guidtnce ofUn ion College facult). For applicatiom, please con tact Profc~.sor j_ Richard Shanebrook in the Department of Mechanical Lngineeri11g. The Faculty Development Committee is noV\ sCJii citing proposab for faCLJlty and scholarship activities. Applications an availab!t.: in D-ean Sorum's Office. The deadline for submission of proposals is Februar: 19, 1998. Sorority Rush Schedule JanqJary 23rd: Informal third night of Rush: 5-8: l5pm (2 houses/lllr. skits, meet (il A lJ)IS) JaniU:U)' 24th: Informal fourth night of Rush HU 5pm (2 houses/ I hr. skits, meet ,(i A ]])IS) Jantiary 25th: Rushee lll\itations: Begins at -ip m Humanities & Social Scieno:s ~See Rho-CIIi) Januar)' 28th: Fifth night or Rush 6-8:45pm (3 houses 45 min. Theme Night.ilnet•t ,tl· Alps) Jamf!ary 29th: Ru;;h.:e Invitations: Begins at 7pm1 Humanities & Social Sciences t Sc:t:\ Rho-Chi) Janl!ar}· 30th: Preference Night 6-8:45pm (2 Hou~es/75 min, Meet 'a Alps) The Schaffer Library is looking, tentatively, to m O'\~ Special Colk\:- tiom and the Schaffer Lihrary basement (bound p>criod icals, micr•o- forms, maps) into the new building in about mid-Fcebruary. All materi- als currently in the old basement will be accessible immediate!; fL>l- lowing the shift. • The Special Collections unit will be closed from January 19- February 24 for packing, relocation, and unpack.ittg. • The I ibrary staff expects to move the remainder of the old library into the new building during the Spring Break. The Library will be closed for that entire week (Marcil 21-29). • The Libary CirculationiReserve Dept. will be in touch with fctculty soon about the scheduling of Reserves requests and tile return of books during the second move. • As always, we will make every effort to minimi:;ze the nega- ti\e impact of these dislocations on the Union College faculty, st~ff, and students. The Mrs. Edwin L. Rich Prize is awarded to the studlent \who has built the best collection of books for use during college.\ [he prize, a $300 gift certificate, will be awarde<l this year. The collection should be a comJ>rehensive and humane one, promoting deveiCJpment ofboth char- acter and intellect Guidelines: I) 'The number of volumes in the candidate library must be at lea.st fifty books owned by the student and marked w itlh his/her name ar bookplace. 2) Paperbacks may be included; college textbooks rnay not. 3) The collection must be centered around a theme:, c ith:r a pa1ticu· lar subject, or author, or time period. The student nuu st provide a single page essay describing the collection, how and why it '\.\'as formed, a11d how it is most used by the student. This essay sh01uld include some mention of plans for additional development of tile I ibrary, with ex- amples of authors, topics, or specific titles. 4) The collection should reflect usc for college stud: it:s or research. Schedule: a) The nmtcstant mu\t ~ubm it a .Ji..,t of hi\ 'hc1 but\~~\· ,mJ th~.· ,tf\,IC.:· mentioned essay, to Maribcth Krupczak, Schaffca· l.i hrary. Oeadl111t: for submission is March 30th, 1998. b) Judging wi II take place in early Apri I at the stu!Ciell t's residence.

Student Forutn Minutes January 12, 1998 VP Finance: \$400retumed from Webster Haunted House, which did not happen VP Admin: • New Student to be named t<l SAC • Attempt to have the Committee on Committees sub-committees working more effectively VP Social: • Winter Carnival planning continues VP Multk • Working on survey to poll student opinion of Trustees: lFC: PanHel: J multicultural situation on campus • 2\d week of Februarya Trustee Meetings • IFC/PanHel to give $200 to GAMMA • Approx. 150 signed up for Rush • Plan to make Rush more relaxed process Class Reports Senior: • Hats on sale • Flower sal.e at Winter Carnival Dance • Sr. Fund meeting Junior: • Teddy Bear Drive for Damien Center • New class T'-shirt · • Classes want Bob Dylan to come to Un·ion • Concert Corum ittee okay with idea • Jerry needs the Forum to assume the financial risk of bringing Dylan to Union Soph: • Turkey Drive raised $757 - bought 5 I turkeys • Looking ahead to later in the term Frosh: • Still seHing shirts Committees FC: • Snowtubing still on New Business *Ideas to bring to the AAC: Possibility of including Reading Days in the exam schedule • Practicum credit for working on The Concordiensis • Possibility of creating a Psyche-Bio Major • Clarification of Intra-departmental majors • Possibility of double minoring • Clarification of\upper level\ history course for AP students and their GenEd requierment • Printout of requirements in pre-registration material • Clarification of guidelines for what WAC requirements are January 19, 1998 VP Finance: • Ultimate Ultimate Club -requested $1480, received $1170 Motion- approve budget for Ultimate Ultimate Club. Passed VP Social: · • Casino Night to be more informal VP Acad: • Dylan not possible, looking for big act for winter • Seth Carrier new student rep to AA C • Meeting with Prof. Stanhope to get Forum concerns VP Multi: • Survey to go out to student body (Tom Marino donated to provide raffle incentive) • MAC- meeting for Winter Carnival: Thu 8pm 303CC • MAG- Pres. Clinton encouraging race talks on a small scale- something to follow the suggestion Trustees: • Quest to teach the Alma Mater • Singing on WRUC • Singing at Sporting events • Posting words around campus • Letter to Concordiensis IFC: • Wrote letter Presidents of houses • new $10 fine for missing IFC meetings • 4 missed meetings - Possible expu Is ion from IFC PanHel: • Rush continues THC: • Informational Wednesday at 7 Class Reports Senior: • 17 hats left • Possibility of event at the Van Dyck Soph: • Sale of class mug • Battle of the Bands possible event in winter • Meeting w/Prof. Underwood about campus vandalism Frosh: • T-shirt sales good Committee Reports SAC: • Proposal for Alcohol policy changes for the Student Handbook brought to Forum for review and comment FC: • Snowtubing moved to later in the term • Possible potluck dinner after next meeting New Business Motion- $50 for the Forum's expenses for the Town Meeting. Passed • Safe Space opening 404B CC as a comfortable environment and information center. Open- Sunday: 7pm-9pm, Wednesday: llam-lpm • WRUC in serious trouble: asking for any help that Forum may be able to give. Looking for money in other places but needs it soon. Women Not in Such a ''Rush'' by Anjali Balasingham Staff Writer The process of somrity rush is undergoing significant changes this winter term. In response to. complaints from both faculty members and rushes, the PanhellenicCouncil has extended . msh to three weeks, a time allow- ance that pennits rushees to par~ · ticipate without sacrificing their academic commitments. The four houses involved in rush 1 Sigma Delta Tau, Gamma.Phi Beta, Tri- Delta, and Delta Gamma, are all enthusiastic about the new system. Up until this year, rush has been a one week process, a constraint which forced many girls to skip classes and forgo studying for the duration. The conflict ofinterests led se,veral rushees to complain. Faculty members who found rush- ees cutting class or falling asleep during it also voiced their con- cerns. Union's Professor Baker, while teaching Freshman Precep- torial a few years ago, \noticed that all my fem'flle students were braindead in class.\ In bringing the topic up at a meeting of other Freshman Pre- ceptors, Baker found thttt his ~ol­ leagues had observed th~ same behavior. Initially pef!Jlexe<f by the fact that only the fetnaJe students were tired andwom down, the pro- fessors eventllally cl~.ared up the issue and, according to Bruker, re- alized that \rush was at the root of it.\ The professors then dr.a.fted a petition and circulated it to their stttdents, and to the deans. In thi~ petition, the mission statement of Union was noted as co11flicting · with rush, says Baker. Thepreemi- nence ofthe life ofthemind takes precedence, a<1cordingtotlle state-. ment, over all else. The petition asked for changes to be made in the rush process, and after the Panhellenic Council, the deans of students; and student government had reviewed it, it was passed. Under the current three-week system, rushes go to the sorority houses only on Fridays and Satur- days, from 6:00pm to 8:45pm, This-two and a half hours, accord- ing to a Panhell representative, represents . \a m.uc.h smaller commitment ... The main reason for the changes, of course, is the academic aspect of rush. Students and professors both appreciate the new rules,\ Professor Baker, who is teach- ing Freshman Prec~ptorial again this term, thinks that the current system \has been working to date. As far as I can see, my freshmen women are brain-alive instead of braindead. I hope it works out.\ . Second Annual Fashion Show in Works · by David Kanfer ContriiJuting Writer On February 21 ~~ Memorial Chapel will be the scene .for Union College's second annual Fashion Show of Support. The ~vent features Union CaHege stu- deJ1ts modeling clothing sup- plied by local merchandisers in an attempt to raise money for the Make-A-Wish foun- dation. The success of last year's show in raising over $7,000 prompted the execu- tive cpmmittee to transform the one-time ev~nt into an annual affair. view. With a revamped executive committee headed by senior David Kanfer and junior Sloane Silver, nota.ble changes:have a.lrea9y been made.- Memorial chapel has re- Memorial Chapel will not only be able to accommodate over eight hundred people, it will add a touch of class that is important to any fashion show. The executive committee, now composed of nine members, already been working for six weeks in preparation for the February 21 ' 1 deadline. \Even though it is an extreme time commitment, I am sure that it will all be worthwhile when we are finally able to hand. the Make-A~Wish Foundation a generous sum of money,\ Says Fashion Show Committee member Last year's show was one Spencer Wanderer. Tammie of the most publicized and Rosen remarked that \our well attended events in recent goal is to exceed the prece- Union College history. Over dent of excellence that was 600 people packed into up- set last year.\ per class dini·ng to witness . On February 21' 1 the sec- their fellow students parade ondannual Fashion Show of upanddowntilecatwalk,act- Support will attempt to . k' i\: d h FilePhotoffC h' . h'l h . mgouts Itsperlorme tote AdamRicltman&MinrlyColteninlastyear'sshow. ac Ieve Its pI ant ropic tuneoftoday's hottest music. goal. The entire Union Col- A not her hundred students were placed Upper class as the venue for lege community will be called on turned away at the door, only to this year's show. The reason for to support their fellow students as watk up one flight of stairs hoping choosing the Chapel as the venue they strut and pose in hopes ofrais- toglimpse the event from an aerial - for this years event is twofold; ing money for the terminally ill. Winter Carnival Coming Up by Nicholas Papanickolas Staff Writer Are you avoiding homework by reading this article? Do you often stare out your window and watch the snow fall and wonder how great it would he to be outside frol- icking aimlessly in the drifts? Well if you're one ofthis people or even just someone who has been too busy with work the past three weeks to notice that there is snow on t:be ground Student Activities has good news for you! On Feb- ruary 6'\ 7th, and 8th Union Col- lege is bringing to the campus Winter Carnival '98. The idea began with a group from the religious chaplain's of- fice and various students who wanted to create a campus wide event that the entire campus could participate in and which would follow a winter- type theme. Then, Student Activities became in- volved and took over the idea. They are in the midst o.f planning the weekend, wh.ich i:s drawing participation fr()m most orgalliza- tional groups on campus Sllch as the multicultural groups, theme houses, and Greek organizations. Although t~e plans are not finalw ized, a rough outline of the week- end events has been genel'ated. On Friday night, the Winter Car nival kicks off with Casino night. Students will be abJ(l t() :try their luck at roulette wheels, craps, cards and more. The various games will be held in Hale house and OJd Chapel; and; in the Rathskeilar thert}' willbe a clttblbar for those aut of luck. On Satut .. day afternoon, there will be a med· ley efmusic and<lance itt the Nott. The acts, to date, are n-ot set but the plan comprises of the Dutch Pipers, Garnet Minstrelles, Shakti, and ASU to perf<>rm. In addition to theperfonnances in the Nott. on Rugby Field various groups/orga- nizations will be able t() compete against each other in a snow and ice sculpture contest. Then as ev- eryone begins to thaw out from their fun in the snow Alumni Gym will be transformed into a New Orleans setting, for Union's ver- sion of Mardi Gras! (Attire is semi .. formal so dress appropri- ately, and all fr.atemities will be closed for the weekend so this will be the place to go. Lastly, on Sun- day, at 7 PM Across the Jordan will performed at the Schenectady Jewish Community Center. From Thursday through Sunday night -ther.e will also be a staged reading of 12 Angry Men by Mounte- banks. If anyone has any good ideas, Student Activities is still taking ideas, but they must be given to them immediately and, of course, must he in good taste. These events are quick lycoming together and if anything, they will be the best excuse you have not to do homework. .i ··' i. Vi n b ~ u w th th R m er er C) th ci ar w Ol G th p< or a1 in m re in th fn SQ ef tri (c, ce se1 to th( fr< su ou 19 tr) ca: gr: ter Th Ur tal St1 19 sta th< th{ rec bal stu in thr Th

~Campus'\News~~ .. ,\'~~-·\·,¥·~=~\~~. tnt!~ Qlomor~en~i~ •Ja:f!ua!J' 22, t998 • Page s · - - - ' ' ' - ' -· ' . - .. Inaugural Brazil Term Abroad a Great Success by Aileen Quigley Staff Writer To escape the cold weather of winter break, S<!mepeople makea run for the border in search ofwam beaches and sunny skies. For three weeks this past December, 11 Union students and two professors went to Brazil in search of more thanjuststmtansand se·ashells. As the first participants in the \Water Resources of Sao ·Paulo, Brazil\ inter-term program, students fr0m engineering, the sciences, and lib- eral arts <lisciplines collabomted to examine the role ofengineering on the sociology of the third largest city in the world. are directly affected by water; the slopes they are built upon are prone to erosion, have no clean running or drinking water, sewage disposal, or solid waste service. The Union students experienced these conditions first hand and witnessed the direct relationship between the sociological climate of Brazil and its water supply. Class began on November 30 1 h and ran until December2l• 1 • Each week included field trips to vari- ous sites including Rio de Janiero, Guardaja; and Vbatuba. During this period, the students were paired into groups to concentrate on the different ways water plays a role in the lives of people living in Sao Paulb. Members ofthe three-week Brazif terin abroad discuss what they learned. Among those students attend- ing, Ottand Erika Migliaccio '99 (sociology) paired up to investi- gatethedrinking water. Migliaccio commented in the Chron ic.Je (Vol.24, No.2), \engineers were interested in how the reservoir worked. Sociology majors were interested in how many people were displaced in building the dam. lleamed where our electric- ity comes from, or where sewage goes.\ Greg Skalaski '98 (C.E.), teamed with Priya Kapur '98 and Jessica Pederson '98 to study in- dustrial waste, also noted that he too gained a greater awareness of the sociological impact of eco- nomic development \Down there~\ he told the Chronicle, \the slogan is 'economic development at any cost.\' Also on the trip were Kathleen Ruggerio, Mary McKay, Anne Swasey, and Rich Clos. Some of the major issues pend- ing in Brazil. right now are directly related to the lack of fresh drink- ing water and sewage disposal, to the pollution ofthe existing water from industrial and residential sources, and to the difficulties of efficiently distributing hydroelec- tric power throughout the cotmtry As Eduardo do Val explained to potential applicants last May, cre- ating uncontaminated sources of water and transporting it to Sao Paulo residents has been a major focus of engineering in Brazil in recent years. Though Brazil is sti II about 50 years behind U.S. stan- dards in wastewater treatment, · they are attempting to \transform [their] slums into residential areas ... by not moving the population but by improving the environ- WRUC Trouble Cont' d ... (continued from page!) carriage, the tuning device was certain amount of money for each between the handles, next to the section of its budget. According baby was· the vacuum tube ampli- to Student Activities regulations, fier andcbmponents, and strapped the staff is not permitted to take under the carriage were the star- from other sections to provide· a age batteries. surplus for another section with~ On March 27, 1947, after hav- out approval. ing·been subject to the Federal On the night of October 14, Communications Commission 1920, the first station in the coun- blackout .during World War II, try had its first programed broad- WRUC ended its dormancy and cast, using nothing but a phono- was again broadcasting. In I 963 graph, a transmitter, and an an- the station was given a new home tenna strung between two trees. on campus that would accommo- The early development ofradio at date technical advancements it had Union was primarily due to a no- made over the two decades. table name on campus, Charles P. WRUC has been around for every Steinmetz. war since the beginning of the cen- The following spring, May 6, tury. During the Vietnam War, the 1921, students associated with the station aired daily updates read station staged an incredible event from official teletypes, which to- · that would go down in history as day are in our archives. It holds a the first instance of portable radio place in history to which. every reception in the nation. Using a generation in this century can re- baby Ca.J1iage, complete with baby, late. It has recorded history, and students disguised a radio receiver it has made history. It is history, a in the carriage and wheeled it significant aspect of history that ment.\ This past winter, Kate Ott '98 (C.E.) state<!, \we got the chan,ce to see the changes in progress.\ The_slums, called favelas, or \squatters' vHiages,\ are the most in need of these 'large-scale im- provements in ,the availability the quality of the water supply. These shacks of wood, cardboard, and metal scraps are h<ime to about 60% of Sao Paulo's impoverished residents, Sociology professor Martha Huggins told the Chronicle. Ott observed, \down there, there wasn't much of a middle class. What happens in the city is that you have the large of- fice buildings next to the favelas. The people in the favelas are Brazil's working poor. Many of them have fulltime jobs, but they cannot accumulate money. It seems easier for women to get work there - almost every single house has a maid.\ The villages The group earned one course credit for the program, and will be presenting their findings at N CUR or Steinmetz this coming spring. Construction Update by Lisa Pertoso Staff Wtiter ' ,. Since Jast spring, the Pike Con- struction Companyllasbeen work- ing on the new library addition and · the Olin Building in hopes to meet the scheduled dates of completion, which were the end of January for the library, and mid-July for the Olin Building. H<Jwever, Bill Schafer, the Capital Projects Man- ager, says that these in- tended dates have been forced to be moved for- ward for vari- ous reasons and delays. The new addition to the library created for occur in the middle of this term, but the beginning of spring term. Another upside to the delay is that the workers now have the week of spring break to close down the old library.\ Starting the first week of Feb- ruary, the transition of materials from the old I ibrary to the new addition will begin, assuming the weather cooperates. Movers have After spring break the new li- brary wil1 be fully occupied and ready for use while the old section is closed down to start the second phase of library construction, which is renovation. The old build- ing will then be \gutted Schafer says, which includes reworking all mechanical and electrical systems. The renovation process entails knocking down the current mez- through downtown Schenectady. may have reached the end of its easier access The antenna was attached to the timeline. to books, pe- Ft;~~!!!~!f!!~~!!!~~~~~!!;~~~!!!!!!!!~!!~!iiJ riodical's and zanine, re- placing win- dows, re- carpeting, and painting the exterior to compli- ment the new build- ing. The new date set for the entire library com- p I e x completion is late Octo- ber, early November of this year. more study space, was =......_;........;_._...._ ........... _ _. Sophomore Robert HagopianffC Aimee Zullo Library construction moves forward despite delays. . . · originally . . anticipates planned to be tumed over to the been hired to transport books from the opening of the new building, college at the end of this month off-site warehouses as well as \The new library will be much longbefotewintertermfinals. Yet those in the current buildings. more conducive to research and as Schafer says, \'The Pike Com- Special collections are the first studying because there isn't pany has had too many delays for items to be moved followed by the enough space in the old building, a multitude of reasons, some are periodicals, government docu- especially during finals.\ Pike's fault and 'S<Jme are the ments and microfiche from the Construction of the Olin Build- college's. They are now two basement. The shiftingofmateri- ing is currently one month behind months behind scbedule.\ This als throughout February are not in- schedule, requiring the workers to means the library e<Jnstruction will tended to affect accessibility to the put in longer hours and Saturdays. continue up untilwin1erexams and library, assures Schafer. Students Construction will continue ~~~ finished over spring break. AI- will still be able to enter through throughout the summer and by the though the delay may seem an in- the front doors all winter term. end of July, furniture, computers convenience, Dean Alford says, Majorchangessuchasmovingthe and other equipment may be \The big changes, stJch as switch- middle floors with the offices and moved in. Upon returning in the ing the entrance fr()rnthe front to circulation desk willoccuroverthe fall, the Olin Building will be the side facing the gym will not break. ready to hold classes.

Students Continue to Contemplate Alcohol ~olicy (Continued) (coniinuedfrom page I) the finger of blame on the fresh- man class. \Not just 25% of the underclassman are facing prob- lems.\ Alford said. \We're more concerned with the broader pic- ture; there is an awful situation that students have a better shot at fix- ing it than we do.\ By prohibiting all fraternities from registering this weekend, there is hope among ad- ministration that upperclassmen will take the initiative to remain sober and act as compliant role models for rushees and party goers alike. \I have faith in this community,\ Alford said, \but people must be aware that parties on campus are a privilege, not a right.\ By abus- ing alcohol, inside or_ ootside of fraternities, students are taking advantage of their social privileges and options. The ban on frater- nity registration however, worried particular Town Meeting attendees leading them to believe that a fra- ternity party free weekend at last minute would lead students astray. \We are dtivingpeople off cam- pus this weekend, Stacy Drossman senior .class president said, \They will find alternative drinking are- nas in Albany and Saratoga and freshmen will go to off campus bars as welL\ Tom Marino, jun- ior class pr-esident, supported Drossman in saying, \We are en- couragingpeople to get their own liquor and bring it into the dorms. If we send people to the hospital this comingweekendwhat will be the repercussions?\ Various Greek organizations believe that even if the fraternity cuts students off, brothers have no control over a party member's ac- tions prior to the party. Psi Upsi- lon brother junior Scott Brown said, \we're trying to structure something tit at hasn't been struc- tured in the past.\ The Union com- munity is facing the most difficult problem, which is how to deal with the very specific issue of uncon- trolled drinking. \Alcohol con- sumption is an adult pleasure. You're a,n intelligent group of people,\ Alford commented, \if the problem is more acute in the class of 200 I then more speakers are needed in freshman dorms.\ Students also expressed the need for more alcohol awareness groups on campus. They feel the system is changing, but the most impor- tant issue is alcohol education. Groups such as TIPS{Training for Intervention Procedures,) and GAMMA (Greeks Advocating Matur.e Management of Alcohol) have been formed to promote al- cohol awareness. Despite many Greek affiliations with alcohol pre- vention and informational pro- grams, many issues are stemming from the donns and the fraterni- ties are proving to be the most con- trolled environment where alcohol distribution is prevalent. The ban on registering for parties has a pur- pose of sending a message to the community that \we want people to grow up,\ Alford said. Students were adamant about expressing the need for more so- cial alternatives on the weekends. They said mote dry activities, such as the coffee house or cultural events would possibly help to al- leviate the need to drink. \The campus needs }o focus on the arts, more entertainment amf more mu- sic;'' said junior Heath Fradkoff. \The poetry reading at KA had a great turnout andevidence that stu- dents will take interest in other social outlets.\ Dean Alford agreed and said \You underestimate your own po- tential to set an example.;' Dean Trish Williams also suggested that role models who are in fact Greek affiliated students, should set ex .. amples: \Why can't you make it unattractive to come to a house drunk and stupid? Hold them re- sponsible for their actions. Stop hovering drunks and send them home, or call security. Pretty soon they will stop trying to impress you drunk.\ As a response to that, one of the only freshman attendants Alan Gershkov, freshman dass presi- dent said,. \They [freshrnan] drink because they go to fratemities. Their idea of a party is drinking beforehand.\ Of the eleven incidents that oc- curred between '97 apd '98, \if only one had been a half a twist worse, we might be sitting. here in a different state of mi11d,\ said Alford. The Union community cannot afford to wait for another incident to begin to prevent any further deadly risks of alcoh o I abuse. Dean Alford said, \this vveekend's campus-wide probation is not a punishment, but a symbol.\ He mad!;') it clear that ifthe c<>Ilege has to deal with this at the 11ext level the social· life as Union knows it will deteriorate. \We ,gratefully give people permission to have parties;\ Alford said, \With re- spect to what goes on, there is a signal that things must change.\ Sister Speaks at Siena College CDC Updates ... by Phoebe Burr Contributing Writer On Tuesday, January 13, one of the most remarkable people of this decade spoke at Siena College. Sister Helen Prejean is a Catholic nun whose work with death-row inmates led to the production of the movie .. Dead Man Walking\ star- ring Susan Sarandon, and directed by Tim Robbins. The movie was nominated for three Academy A ·wards, and Sister Prejean has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, probably the highest award that can be endowed on any humanitarian. She spoke to an audience of about three hundred students, families, clergy mem- bers, and people representing all backgrounds of the Capital district area. in prison, he was truly a changed man. He was spiritually free, and had a love and appreciation oflife that he had never had before. His relationship with Prejean was the first time he had ever felt loved. Because she hadn't judged him by his crime, he could trust her in re- vealing his regrets, his joys, and his sorrows, and she was able to come to understand his real hu- manity, which society had torn from him, and understand his de- feat. you\ in Prejean's direction before his body felt the convulsions of final death. One could not help but be im- pressed with Prejean's ability to captivate one's soul and mind and describe her experiences with death-row in away that caused one to place themselves in h.er shoes, and to look upon each other, re- gardless Of our past actions, as human qeings. She m!!de a pointed analogy. All of ·US should imag- ine that the worst that tiling we had ever done was projected upon a giant screen, and based on that, society judged us. Redemption, sorrow, regret, or change wouldn't be relevant or important. The death penalty, in her eyes, is the ()pposite of baptism. Baptism in- troduced one into a larger society and was the start of a life within it. Learn w.h~ it takes to succeed in your Health Professions lnt,erviews. Worksllop on M<Jnday, January 26th at 7pm in tbe COC. Frustrated with tbe job search? Attend the rm~ of four meetings of tbe Job Seeker's Club on Tuesday, January 27th at4pm in the CDC. Union alum Rob Quisb ('83) wiU be presenting a worksbop entitled: \Is Advertising tbe Field fur You? .. on Thursday, January 29 at 8pm ill OldCbapel. Extend~d ()rop-ins on \Thursday Jaunary 29th and Friday, January 30th from 1 0·5pm for resume and cover letter feedback. SENIORS: Resume Drop Deadline for Winter Recruiting on Friday, January 30th by Spm at the CDC. (Complete Recruiting Contract required.) New Sununer Internship Opportunities with: Lucent Technologies for students interested in finance, science, and engineering (Deadline 2/2}; J.P. Morgan, NYC-Internal Consulting Services (Deadline 2/13); SBC Warburg DiUon Read for students interested in accounting, tinance. and engineering; Manning, Selvag~ & l.ee, NYC-Public Relations Agency (Deadline April/ · May); Vermont Institute of Natural Science for students interested in . environmental education internships (Deadline 3/31); Tbe Bo.ston Gl.:tbe, Boston, for students intereSted in business internships in accounting an(l advertising (Deadlille 2127); and the International Foundation ofEmployee BenefUs, nationwide, for students interested in internships in the employee benefit.'> field (Deadline 2/6). See CDC and CDC home page for futlter infOI'mation. ! Sister Prejean grew up in Loui- siana, and, after forty years of working with the poor in New Or- leans, she made a life-changing decision. Prejean began to corre- spond with Patrick Sonnier, a death-row inmate in a Louisiana prison. She had no idea of his crime, and never asked him. She felt that this man was already con• demned to die, and that her judge- ment of him based on his past was neither just nor fair to his human- ity. This allowed her to develop a relationship based on respect for another human. She learned about his childhood, and about his lack offamily and friends. She learned that he was sorry for what he had done, and that after so many years It was after several visits that Prejean convinced herself to find out what this man had done. She went into the warden's office and looked through his files. She found that Sonnier and his brother had lured two teenagers from a lover's lane, pretending that they were security guards, and prom- ised not to prosecute the lovers for trespassing if the girl would have sex with them. The next morning the two young adults were found brutally mur- dered. The Sonniers were found guilty in 1911, and Patrick was sentenced to death. He was elec- trocuted in l 984, after two years of an intense and emotional friend- ship with Prejean. Out of fear and love, she came to know a man whom society had condemned to death. Prejean formed a real and true bond with this man, who wanted only 1o be able to smile at her before volts of electricity surged through his body. But he only managed a contorted twitch and mouthed the words \I love However, society does not allow room for change or redemption. Being human is, in essence, hav- ing the ability to be rational and to make choices. To forgive is not to forget, and Sister Prejean uses a pointed example based on an en- counter with Lloyd LeBlas, the father of the boy Patrick Sonnier killed to make this point. When he went to identify the body of his son, he knelt beside the corpse, and immediately forgave \the person who killed my child,\ and asked God to \forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass among us.\ But he knew he would never forget. Every day for the rest of his life, LeBias would have to contend with the bitterness and hate that could dominate his life. Instead, he chose to forgive. He recognized that his if life was to go on being productive and joy- ous, he couldn't let his hate con- trol him or his future would he miserable. INTERNATIONAL I }OB SKILLS The importance of the movie is that it is \a sustained meditation without distraction.\ Prejean's crusade against the death penalty bri,pgs the values of society to a personal and spiritual level. She asks us to rethink and reflect on our lives and our inhumanity. Sister Helen Prejean's speech was a call to deliberate on our re- spect for those we feel we have a right to judge, for humanity, and, more importantly, for life. Advertising Is· What 1\.llews . . . . ·'· . . . . Us to Keep Improvin.Jtl!! . - . Call David Blatt, our Advertising, Manager,ifyoo wan.f.to place an advertisement. ·On-campus ·advertisers~receive· special· ·· -. ' . . . discounts. We also like to make special-package deals. Call Dave at x6155 or (518)388-6155! Nc>W prof(.'S.'iional M.A. in I.ntet- natlonal Affairs or tnterame.rican Studies prepares you rapidly for exciting careers: a environmental studies 0 public heallh [j government (j internalionaf organiz.1tions LJ international media, business Learn valuable analytic :;kills from <.··mnomic.s and llw ~ociJI scien<.:<.'S. Complete !his intensive multi- di.KiplinMy dq.;RT in J2 lc> ):') months, while living in a kt~i· nat ing llltt•malional cit~· Fit'l' dt•tail'. SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES Cor.1J G;1hks. RBI 21- '.0 I o. .~OS·lH·'-4 17.~; Fax: ~O'i 2H·~·440(, www. miami cdu/si~ I ] 1 I t 1 t t ( ( ( ( s s [ t c p v c c tl tl d II a n tl R tl \\ d \\ eJ IE f< fl si

Students Continue to Contemplate Alcohol Policy (Continued) {continued from page I) the finger of blame on the fresh- man class. \Not just 25% of the underclassman are facing prob- lems.\ Alford said. \We're more concerned with the broader pic- ture; there is an awful situation that students have a better shot at fix- ing it than ...ve do.'' By prohibiting all fraternities from registering this weekend, there is hope among ad- ministration that upperclassmen will take the initiative to remain sober and act as compliant role models for rushees and party goers alike. \I have faith in this community,\ Alford said, \but people must be aware that parties on campus are a privilege, not a right.\ By abus- ing alcohol, inside or outside of fraternities, students are taking advantage of their social privileges and options. The ban on frater- nity registration however, worried particular Town Meeting attendees leading them to believe that a fra- ternity party free weekend at last minute would lead students astray. \We are driving people off cam- pus this weekend, Stacy Drossman senior class pres ide11t said, \They will find altemative drinking are- nas in Albany and Saratoga and freshmen will go to off campus bars as well.\ Torn Marino. jun- ior class president, supported Drossman in saying, \We are en- couraging people to get their own liquor and bring it in'to the dorms. If we send people t() the hospital this coming weekend what will be the repercussions?\ Various Greek <Jrganizations believe that even ifthe fraternity cuts students off, br<Jthers have no control over a party member's ac- tions prior to the patty. Psi U psi- Jon brother junior Scott Brown said, \we're trying to structue something that hasn't been struc- tured in the past.\ Tile Union com- munity is facing the most difficult problem, which is how to deal with the very specific issue of uncon- trolled drinking. '\Alcohol con- sumption is an adult pleasure. You're an intelligent gmup of people,\ Alford commented, \if the problem is more acute in the class of 200 l then more speakers are needed in freshman dorms.\ Students also expressed the need for more alcohol awareness groups on campus. They feel the system is changing, but the most impor- tant issue is alcohol education. Groups such as TIPS(Training for Intervention Procedures,) and GAMMA (Greeks Advocating Mature Management of Alcohol) have been formed to promote al- cohol awareness. Despite many Greek affiliations with alcohol pre- vention and informational pro- grams, many issues are stemming from the donns and the fraterni- ties are proving to be the most con- trolled environment where alcohol distribution is prevalent. The ban on registering for parties has a pur- pose of sending a message to the community that \we want people to grow up,\ Alford said. Sister Speaks at Siena College by Phoebe Burr Contributing Writer On Tuesday. January 13, one of the most remarkable people of this decade spoke at Sit!na College. Sister Helen Prejean is a Catholic nun whose work with deuth-row inmates led to the production of the moYie ··Dead Man Walking\ star- ring Susan Sarandon. and directed h\ Tim Robhins. The movie \\a~ nominated for three 1\c adem~ A\'. ards. and Sister Prejean has been nom ina ted for the Nobel Peace Prize. probably the highest mvard that can be endowed on any humanitarian. She spoke to an audience of about three hundred students, families, clergy mem- bers, and people representing all backgrounds of the Capital district area. Sister Prejean grew up in Loui- siana, and, after forty years of working with the poor in New Or- leans, she made a life-changing decision. Prejean began to corre- spond with Patrick Sonnier, a death-row inmate in a Louisiana prison. She had no idea of his crime, and never asked him. She felt that this man was already con- demned to die, and that her judge- ment of him based on his past was neither just nor fair to his human- ity. Thi'> allowed her to develop a relationship based on respect for another human. She learned about i11s childhood. and about his lack of family and friends. She leamed tllat he was sorry fur what he had done, and that afier so many years in prison, he was truly a changed man. He was spiritually free, and had a love and appreciation of life that he had never had before. His relationship with Pn~jean was the first time he had ever felt loved. Because she hadn ·q udged him by his crime. he could trust her in re- vealing his regrets. hts joys. and his sorrows. and sh~ 1vas able to come to understand his real flu- manit:. which society had torn from him. and under~tand hi~ de- feat. It was after severa I vis its that Prejean convinced lurself to find out what this man had done. She went into the warden's office and looked through his files. She found that Sonnier and his brother had lured two teenagers from a lover's lane, pretending that they were security guards, and prom- ised not to prosecute the lovers for trespassing if the girl would have sex with them. The next morning the two young adults were found brutally mur- dered. The Sonniers were found guilty in 1977, and Patrick was sentenced to death. He was elec- trocuted in 1984, after two years of an intense and emoti()nal friend- ship with Prejean. Out of fear and love, she came to know a man whom society had condemned to death. Prejean formed a real and true bond with this man, who wanted only to be able to smile at her before volts of electricity surged through his b()dy. But he only managed a contorted twitch and mouthed the words \I love you\ in Prejean's direction before his body felt the convulsions of final death. One could not help but be im- pressed with Prejean's ability to captivate one's soul and mind and describe her experiences with death-row in a wav that caused one to place themselves in her shoes. ami to look upon each other, re- gardless of our past actions. as human beings. She made a pointed analog). All of us should imag- ine that the worst that thing we had ever done was projected upon a giant screen. and based on that, society judged us. Redemption, sorrow, regret, or change wouldn't be relevant or important. The death penalty, in her eyes, is the opposite of baptism. Baptism in- troduced one into a larger society and was the start of a life witl1 in it. However, society does not allow room for change or redemption. Being human is, in essence, hav- ing the ability to be rational and to make choices. To forgive is not to forget, and Sister Prejean uses a pointed example based on an en- counter with Lloyd LeBlas, the father of the boy Patrick S011n ier killed to make this point. When he went to identify the body of his son, he knelt beside the corpse, and immediately forgave \the person \'\ho killed my child,\ and asked God to \forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass among us.\ But he knew he would never forget. Every day for the rest of his life, LeBlas would have to contend with the bitterness and Students were ad<tmant about expressing the need for more so- cial alternatives on the weekends. They said more dry activities, such as the coffee house ()f cultural events would possibly help to al- leviate the need to drink \The campus needs to focus on the arts, more entertainment and more mu- sic,\ said junior Heath Fradkoff. \The poetry reading at KA had a great turnout and evidence that stu- dents will take interest in other social outlets.\ Dean Alford agreed and said \You underestimate y()ur own po- tential to set an exam pie.\ Dean Trish Williams also Sl!l£,gested that role models who are in fact Greek affiliated students, should set ex- amples: \Why can't :you make it unattractive to come to a house drunk and stupid? Hold them re- sponsible for their actions. Stop hovering drm'lks and send them home, or call security. J>retty soon they will stop trying to itnpress you drunk.\ As a resp<Jnse to that, one of the only freshman attendants Alan Gershkov, freshman class presi- dent said, \They [freshman] drink because they go to fraternities. Their idea <Jf a party is drinking beforehand.\ Of the eleven incidents that oc- curred between '97 and '98, ''if only one had been a half a twist worse, we might be sitting here in a different state of mind,\ said Alford. The UniDn community cannot afford to wait for another incident to begin to prevent any further deadly risks of alcohol abuse. Dean Alford said, \this weekend's campus-wide probation is not a punishment, but a symboL\ He made it cleartllat ifthecollege has to deal with this at the next level the social life as Union knows it will deteriorate. \We gratefully give people permission to have parties,\ AI :fiord said, \With re- spect to what goes on, there is a signal that things must change.\ CDC Updates ••• Learn what it takes (.{) succeed in your Health Profess~ns lnterviews. Workshop on Monday, Illllllary 26th at 7pm in the CDC Frustrated with the job se:arch? Attend the first of four m~tings of the Job Seeker's Club on Tuesday, January 27th at 4pm in the CDC. Union alwn Rob Quish ('~3) will he prerenting a workshop entitled: \Is Advertising the J<'i.,ld l'or You?\ on Thursday, January 29 at 8pm in Old Chapel. Extended Drop-ins on Tlu.1r:.Uay, Jaunary 29th and f'rid..ay, Jan11ary 10th from 10-5pm for resmnc and ccl\cr letter fccdb:Jck. SENIORS: Resume I>~p Deadline for Winter Recruitilflg on Friday, January 30th by Spm at the Cr>C. (('ompletc Recruiting Contract required.} New Sununer IBtern~bipOpportunities with: Lucent 'l4!chnologies for students inleresled in finance, sdcnce, and engineering (l}eadlinc 2/2); J.P. Morgan, NYC-Internal Co111sulting Services (Deadline 2/1 3); SBC Warburg Dillon Read for students iriterestcd in accounting, finance. and engineering; Manning, Selvage, & 1.~. NYC-Public Relations Agency (Deadline April/ May); Vennont Institute of Natural Science for students. interested in environmental education internships (Deadline 3/31); Tile Boston Globe, Boston, for students inreresud in business internships in accounting and advertising (Deadline 2J27); and the International Fourntlution of Employee Benefi~. nationwide, for students interested in intcm<>bips in the employee benefit..-. field (Deadline 216). See CDC and CDC home ~Jage fGr futher lnfonnation. hate that could dominate his life. Instead, he chose to f~rgive. He recognized that his if life was to go on being productive and joy- ous, he couldn't let hi~ hate con- trol him or his future 1vouid be INTERNATIONAL JoB SKILLS miserable. Nt·w profc;,sion:li M.A. in Inter- The importance of the movie is · national Affalr.s <Jr Interarnerican that it is \a sustained meditation Studies prepares y-mt rapidly for without distraction.\ Prejean's t·xdting careers: crusade against the deatil penalty ~ t·nvironmctlt:tl studies briJ1gs the values of society to a CJ public heaitt1 personal and spiritual level. She n governnH.~nt asks us to rethink and reflect on '\1 intt~rn:ttion:tl org~tnizations our lives and our inhumanity. lltnternalional mcdi:1. busnwss Sister Helen Prejean's speech was a call to deliberate {)M our re- l.eam valuahk· .:~mlytte skllls spect for those we feel \We have a from econo1nir~ and the :-,ot iJl !'>Cll'IKl':O.. right to judge, for humanity, and, more importantly, for life. Advertising Is What Allows Us to Keep Improving!!! Complete th1:~. Jrltt't'l~i\'e mul!J- di:-;ciplinary de:gr<:~ in 12 to IS months, \vhill.\ li•·ing in ;1 ta~ci· n:tling intl'rnattnn:ll ciW Free detu ils. SCHOOLOF i INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 1 I Cor:ll G:abks.R B 121·30 10 ' Call David Blatt, our Advertising Manager, if you want to place an advertisement. On-campus advertisers receive special · discounts. We also like to make special package deals. Call Dave at x61S5 or (518)388-6155! i .~M·2H4-417l Fax; ~05·ZH4-4406 ' www.m iami.t.~d 11/sis .! c L If ti b if p \\ IT n R fc rr ti til te th 0 d< d< ol sa sa in th \V d ca th th de In an m th Ri th \V( de W( let fo fu sit If

World News & Views Tensions Iil Middle East Reach Boiling Point by LiamJoynt World News .Eilitor Iraq Calls for Jihad Against U.S. Relations between tbe U.S. and Iraq remain strained by the previ- ous week's events. L$t week Iraqi officials barred an United Nations arms inspection team from certain sites due to claims that too many Americans are on tbe team and that William Ritter Jr., the Ameri- can leading the team, is a spy. The U.N. Security Council issued a dec- laration rebuking Iraq for it's ac- tions, the fourth such declaration, but did not threaten military action if their demands for a<Jcess to all possible weaponproliferation sites were not met. Three of the five per- manent members of the U.N. Secu- rity Council, China, France, and Russia, expressed reluctance to use force against Iraq ifthe U.N.'s de- mands were not met. Iraq's con- tinued resistance to his investiga- tion team led Ritter to withdraw his team until an agreement between the U.N. and Iraq·could be reached. On Saturday, President Hussein delivered a speech to his people days before the sixth anniversary of the Gulf War. In his speech he said that if the U.N. did not lift sanctions and end anns inspection in the next six months, he would throw the inspect()rs out of the country. Also, he called upon his people to prepare for ajihad (holy war) against the United States, claiming thatthe U.S. isa tyranni\- cal \neo-imperialist\ threat to all the nations of the world~ especiaUy the Arab nations. The following day Mr. Hussein continued to ask Iraqis to report for military training and it is estimated that over one million troops will begin training in the next month. The immediate response by Bill Richardson, U.S. representative to the U.N., was tbat no sanctions would be lifted until all of the U.N.'s demands were met and Hussein was \dreaming\ if he thought oth- erwise. On Monday, Richard But- ler, the U.N.'schiefarms inspector for Iraq, said that there might be a future reassessment oftbe compo- sition of inspection teams. Butler also said that the Security Council must have unobstructed access to all sites suspect of weapons stock- piles before any sanctions will be lifted~ Iranian Leaders Expr~ss Dislike of U.S. Government & Policies This week Iran's President Mohammad Khatami berated the United States for the oppression of his people and pledged the U.S. would never shackle them again. Khatami's labeling of America's policies as oppressive elicited sev- eral \Death t0 America\ chants from the crowd. This speech was a surprise turn- around from Khatami 's interview earlier this month where he called for a cultural exchange between the peoples of the two countries. Afterthe.earlier speech, Khatami's brother, although not a government official, called upon the U.S. tore- ciprocate Khatami' s relatively af- fable statements. The President's brother called for a review of U.S. sanctions on Iran, an easing of visa regulations for Iranians wishing to travel in the U.S., and a return of Iranian financial assets frozen by Washington. The U.S. did not take any action or make any statement towards Iran. Following the U.S. in~ction the Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's spiritual leader and the highest authority in the land, debased the U.S. as the \Great Satan\ and spoke venomously of the U.S. government. Although the Aya- tollah did agree with President Khatami on the use of cultural ex- change to ease mistrust between the peoples, his message of fear andhateofthe U.S. as a whole was clear. Military Relations witlt China Improve with Cohen Visit Amidtalks ofthe U.S.liftin:g its ban on the sale ofarms to China, Sec- retary of Defense William Cohen, and a following ofU .S. military of- ficers, became the first foreigners to tour a sensitive Chinese military site. This display of trust by the Chinese came primarily because of the Military Maritime Consultation · IF we: coo co sAf'{lNKlH~ EARi'l-l's,~oPtllAiioirtotrvrtt:AsE4oF·filR~c,$etY- ·· ;J:Qa.:PEQ8l.fitWfi:I1~L~~. , Ht.JMANRATIO$ . ,, ~EMAl~l~@.~ltl:\VV . P~9QKqK~,.1]il.$;, ': .: ... ·; ., . .; .. ,,·, .· ';. ·-·~· - ·. '· ' ,.;· - . ·.:.. . . . ;· .. '\ ' . : ·51 WUutniB~FE-M/\1..9;'49WbUtti :ee MAle<'; 70 WOULD BE NON-WHITE; 30 WHITE 70 WOULD BE NON-CHRISTIAN 50% OF THE ENTIRE WORLD'S HEALTH WOULD BE IN THE HANDS OF ONlY 5 PEOPLE AND ALL6 WOULO BE CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES . 80 WOULD LIVE IN SUBSTANDARD HOUSING 70 PEOPLE WOULD BE ABLE TO READ 50 WOUlD SUFFER FROM MALNUTRITION 1 WOULD BE NEAR-DEATH, 1 WOULD eE NEAR BIRTH -' .. ONLY 1 WOOLD HAVE A COLLEGE EDUCATION NO ONE WOULD OWN A COMPUTER WHEN ONE CONSIDERS OUR WORLD FROM SUCH AN INCREDI91. COMPRESSED PERSPECTIVE. THE NEEO FOR BOTII TOLERANCE AND UNDERSTANDING BECOME$ Agreement, signed by Mr. Cohen and General Chi, that establishes protocol for C()ntact between the two countries' 11aval and air forces. There were also preliminary talks of future joint exercises by the two militaries and !Tlutual visitation by officers to the others' bases. Mr. Cohen also reports having assur- ances that China will cease missile sales to countries like Iran. The Chinese expressed concerns with U.S. support of Taiwan and a large ground force (100 ,000 troops) still stationed in Asia. Pope t() Visit Cuba Yesterday Pope John Paul 1'1, leader of the Roman Catholic Church, visited Cuba in an unprec- edented support of religious free~ dom by Cuba11 President Fidel Castro. Castro will actually attend the public mass given by the Pope; the first time lle has attended a public mass since 1959. Many be- lieve Castro bas agreed to the Pope's visit to gain political advan- tage in its international relations, but Cuban Catholics, long ostra- cized for their beliefs, are very ex- cited about the visit. Many Cubans feel that the up- coming visit has loosened both religious and political stigmas al- ready. Clinton Admin. Leaking Brit. Intelligence to IRA? Raymond Seitz, former U.S. Am- bassador to Britain, has accused the Clinton Administration of sup- plying the Irish Republican Anny with British Intelligence secrets regarding Northern Ireland. He &lso claims that Jean Kennedy Smith, the Ambassador to Ireland, is an IRA sympathizer. Seitz based his assertions primarily on the U.S. backing of appeasement towards Gerry Adams (leader of the Sinn Fein, the IRA political wing) in ending terrorist attacks in North- ern Ireland. Britain, not ignorant to the problem themselves, .stopped passing sensitive infonna- tion to the White House because it often ended up in the hands of the IRA. These allegations all stem from events in 1994. Indonesia Bailed out by I.M.F. Indonesian President Suharto fi- nally signed an International Mon- etary Fund agreement in an attempt to save his country's faltering economy. Much ofthe agreement targeted industries that the Suharto family had run and made huge prof- its on forthe32 years ofSuharto's reign. The agreement allows for mild budget deficits, but mainly focuses on changes in the Suharto economic empire. Even with the LM.F bailout, economic forecasts for Indonesia are not good. In the world's fourth largest country, little or no economic growth is expected in the next year and inflation is ex- pected to reach 20 percent. The day after the signing, Indonesian currency, the rupiah, continued to lose strength compared to the dol- lar, finishing 6.5 percent lower than when the I.M.F deal was an- nounced. Political rivals of Mr. Suharto have called for his resig- nation, but it is unclear if he will remain in power. The U.S. has for many years hoped for an adminis- tration with more democratic ten- dencies than Suharto's administra- tion has proved. But the lack of strong leadership now could lead to further economic turmoil, hurt- ing both other Asian markets and the U.S.

World News & Views ,I .: ,.' I I ; I ' l l ' :'. •, r\ ,: ' \ I ·~.· . .., Tensions In Middle East Reach Boiling Point by Limn Joynt World News Editor Iraq Calls for Jihad Against U.S. Relatim'lsbetween the U.S. and Iraq remain strained by the previ- ous week's events. Last week Iraqi officials barred an United Nations arms inspection team from certain sites due to claims that too many Americans are on the team and that William Ritter Jr., the Ameri- can leading the team, is a spy. The U.N. Security Council issued a dec- laration rebuking Iraq for it's ac- tions, the fourth such declaration, but did not threaten military action if their demands for access to all possible weapon proliferation sites were not met. Three of the five per- manent members ofthe U.N. Secu- rity Council, China, France, and Russia, expressed reluctance to use force against Iraq if the U.N.'s de- mands were not met. kaq's con- tinued resistance to his investiga- tion team led Ritter to withdraw his team until an agreement between the U.N. and Iraq could be reached. On Saturday, President Hussein delivered a speech to his people days before the sixth anniversary of the Gulf War. In his speech he said that if the U.N. did not lift sanctions and end arms inspection in the next six months, he would throw the inspectors out of the country. Also, he called upon his people to prepare for a jihad (holy war) against the United States, claiming that the U.S. is a tyranni- cal \nee-imperialist\ threat to all the nations of the world, especially the Arab nations. The following day Mr. Hussein continued to ask Iraqis to report for military training and it is estimated that over one million troops will begin training in the next month. The immediate response by Bill Richardson, U.S. representative to the U.N., was that no sanctions would be lifted until all ofthe U.N.'s demands were met and Hussein was \dreaming\ if he thought oth- erwise. On Monday, Richard But- ler, the U.N.'s chief arms inspector for Iraq, said that there 1night be a future reassessment oft he compo- sition of inspection teams. Butler also said that the Security Council mwst have unobstructed access to all sites suspect of weapons stock- piles before alily sanctions will be lifted. Iranian Leaders Express Dislike of U.S. Government & Policies This week Iran's President Mohammad Khatam i berated the United States for the oppression ofhis people and pledged the U.S. would never shackle them again. Khatami's labeling of America's policies as oppressive elicited sev- eral \Death to America\ chants from the crowd. This speech was a surprise turn- around from Khatami's interview earlier this month where he called for a cultural exchange between the peoples of the two countries. After the earlier speech, K.hatami's brother, although nota government official, called upon the U.S. tore- ciprocate Khatam i' s relatively af- fable statements. The President's brother called for a review of U.S. sanctions on Iran, an easing of visa regulations for Iranians wishing to travel in the U.S., and a return of Iran ian financial assets frozen by Washington. TheU.S.didnottake any action or make any statement towards Iran. Following the U.S. inaction the Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's spiritual leader and the highest authority in the land, debased the U.S. as the \Great Satan\ and spoke venomously of the U.S. government. Although the Aya- tollah did agree with President Khatami on the use of cultural ex- change to ease mistrust between the peoples, his message of fear and hate of the U.S. as a whole was clear. Military Relations with China Improve with Cohen Visit Amid talks of the U .S.I ifting its ban on the sale of arms to China. Sec- retary of Defense William Cohen, and a following ofUS military of- ficers. became the first foreigners to tour a sensitive Chinese military site. This display of trust by the Chinese came primarily because of the Military MaritimeConsultation A SUMMARY OF THE WORLD by Beth Wierzbieniec IF WE COULD SHRINK THE EARTH'S POPULATION TO A VILLAGE OF PRECISELY 100 PEOPLE, WITH ALL EXISTING HUMAN RATIOS REMAINING THE WORLD WOULD LOOK LIKE THIS: 51 WOULD BE FEMALE; 49 WOULD BE MALE 70 WOULD BE NON~WHITE; 30 WHITE 70WOULD BE NON-CHRISTIAN 50% OF THE ENTIRE WORLD'S HEALTH WOULD BE IN THE HANDS OF ONLY 6 PEOPLE AND All6 WOULD BE CITIZENS OF THE UNifED STATES 80 WOULD LIVE: IN SUBSTANDARD HOUSING 70 PEOPLE WOULD BE ABLE TO READ 50 WOULD SUFF'ER FROM MALNUTRITION 1 WOULD BE NEAR-DEATH, 1 WOULD BE NEAR BIRTH ONlY 1 WOtJLD HAVE A COLLEGE EDUCATION NO Ot>lE WOULD OWN A COMPUTER WHEN ONE CONSIDERS OUR WORLD FROM SUCH AN lNCRt:DIBL COMPRESSED PERSPECTIVE, THE NEED .f'OR BOTH TOLERANCE ANO VNDERSTANOING EJECOM_ES . .... AfPARENT;{t·'.· ·'··' :· ·>·i:, .. ;;.~.:·:';b . > Agreement, signed by Mr. Cohen and General Chi, that establishes protocol for contact between the two countries' naval and air forces. There were also preliminary talks of future joint exercises by the two militaries and mutual visitation by officers to the others' bases. Mr. Cohen also reports having assur- ances that China will cease missile sales to countries like Iran. The Chinese expressed concerns with U.S. support ofTaiwan and a large ground force (I 00,000 troops) still stationed in Asia. Pepe to Visit Cuba Yesterday Pope John Paul II, leader of the Roman Catholic Church, visited Cuba in an unprec- edented support of religious free- dom by Cuban President Fidel Castro. Castro will actually attend the public mass given by the Pope; the first time he has attended a public mass since 1959. Many be- lieve Castro has agreed to the Pope's visitto gain political advan- tage in its international relations, but Cuban Catholics, long ostra- cized for their beliefs, are very ex- cited about the visit. Many Cubans feel that the up- coming visit has loosened both religious and political stigmas al- ready. Clinton Admin. Leaking Brit. l11telligence to IRA? Raymond Seitz, former U.S. Am- bassador to Britain, has accused the Clinto-n Administration of sup- plying the Irish Republican Army with Brit ish Intelligence secrets regarding Northern Ireland. He also claims that Jean Kennedy Smith, the A.m bassador to Ireland, is an IRA sympathizer. Seitz based his assertions primarily on the U.S. backing of appeasement towards Gerry Adams (leader of the Sinn Fein, the IRA political wing) in ending terrorist attacks in North- ern Ireland. Britain, not ignorant to the problem themselves, stopped passing sensitive infomla- tion to the White House because it often ended up in the hands of the IRA. These allegations all stem from events in 1994. Indonesia Bailed out by I.M.F. lndones ian President Suharto fi- nally signed an International Mon- etary Fund agreement in an attempt to save his country's faltering economy. Much ofthe agreement targeted industries that the Suhart(} family had run and made huge pr()f- its on for the 32 years ofSuharto 's reign. The agreement allows for mild budget deficits, but mainly focuses on changes in the Suharto economic empire. Even with the l.M.F bailout, economic forecasts for Indonesia are not good. In the world's fourth largest country, little or no economic growth is expected in the next year and inflation is ex- pected to reach 20 percent. The day after the signing, Indonesian currency, the rupiah, continued to lose strength compared to the do J. Jar, finishing 6.5 percent lower than when the I.M.F deal was an· nounced. Political rivals of Mr. Suharto have called for his resig· nation, but it is unclear if he wi II remain in power. The U.S. has for many years hoped for an adminis- tration with more democratic ten· dencies than Suharto's administra· tion has proved. But the lack ()f strong leadership now could lead to further economic turmoil, hurt- ing both other Asian markets and the U.S. ··lrftni Gallo & Son Hlofist: ' ' . \ . ~ . . ' ,. . . . . . . . ' . . ' . '

What Should We Do This Weekend? \This weekend's campus-wide probation is not a punishment, but a-sym- bol.\ Dean Alford~ when he stated these words, wasconect. It is a symbol of the fact that we have been fortUJute enough to wiuuss relatively minor alc{)- llol-related problems on the Uniun campus. Would a death-related issue stir the campus enou~h to make significant changes within their social spheres? Administration is not out to guide or suggest social life options, but they do look out for the safety and well being of each individual here. In trusting students with their hopefully rnature decisions, the college willingly hands over party permits in the hopes tl1at responsible actions are taken while drink- ing. Howev~r, this campus-wide probation is also a symbol of several prob- lems. This weekend, there are 110 on-campus social activities planned as of this writing. Whilesuggestions:haveheen made to serve \chicken wings and root beer,\ the realities of these actions being effecti'le are limited. Do not get us VJrong. We believe that every student :that is hospitalized is a problem for the entire campus: However, let us be reasonable. Y <JU cannot get a student to CJU it drinking \c<Jld turkey\ (just like most smokers). There are diehards on tlds campus 'Who would not only refuse to partake in the suggested alternatives, but who would want to flee Union for their much- awaited \brewed\ .relief. This does not just mean Geppettos or Rupsis. AI- · bany, Saratoga,. an-d ettrer semi-o<iistant locales await the same students who fled the campus cluring the enfor(.;ement of the \2Al\1 Rule\ last spring. After watching students' reactions last year, we need to .sit back and recakulate the current \symbol'\ being offered by the Administrati()n. Adding to this danger of possible drinking-related accidents; students this weekend will be left to the winter storms, the outeHealms of social alterna- tives ranging fmm bowling to bars. Who knows where they will go, how they will get there, and if they will come heme. By shutting down the main attraction of social life on campus this coming weekend, the administration is dealing out a few dangerous cards. There is no such thingas a \better death.\ Union Admini-stration, please reconsider your course of action. While we do not underestimate the reliability of the \Ellis I{Qspital\ figures this year, we wonder exaetly what the similar statistics are forprioryears. Is the figure of II students being carted away actually an improvement over the past? If it is, then why risk having such heavy-handed actions cause worse results than the newly-proposed actions ofthe IFC and PanHel (which President Hull, according to this issue of Union Magazine, highly ai>proved)? If the number is higher this year. then are we sure that fraternities are where the problem lies? In fact, President Hull's vast campaign began when he learned students drink in their rooms prior to parties. Do we safegucud the dorms, do we confiscate fake IDs, or do we enforce widespread alcollol education ar1d management with the hopes that someone is listening? On a weekend witll no home hockey ~ames, no \Club U's,\ no winter galas, and no fashion shows, do we really wallt to risk students' lives with Mother Nature's wrath outside of the gates tllat \protect\ us? Thor- oughly thought-ollt change~ will benefit this carnplls. Knee-jerk reactions, like these, make several people wonder if the administration is more con- cerned about issues than students' lives. FSRISAS Pointless Observations By David Kay Staff Writer Originally, I wanted to do my column this wee:k from the first- person perspective of someone that I know wlto unfortunately found himself lying in a hospital bed Sunday morning with an IV in his arm from an overdose of al· cobol. However, ile let me down and refused to write for me. It's unfortunate, but he told me that he couldn't remember that mllch from Saturday evening anyway, so I don't know how much w!Jite space I would have been able: to fill Don't ask me what the deal is with all the alcohol prqblems around here. I kii<>W that banning fraternities isn't tbe way to end tile problem, though_ Without frater- nities, I cou1dn•teven think of one thing to do arou11d here on the weekends (besides. the obviou1;). frat scene AND lower tuition prices! I think tlle idea might work. This column appeals to the lowest common denominator, and people still read it. Speaking of my col- umn, I was seriously thinking about endin~ it this weekend for one reason ()f another. 1 realize that a good number of people would have liked to see that hap- pen, but I decided not to go ahead with it unfortllnately. This column is like a high maintenance girl- friend. Sure, it's great to have and show off, but a pain in the ass to keep up. I got a letter this week which sort of made me laugh. I threw it out by mistake with all the junk -around my room, b11t one partof it Hound pat1icularly funny I think I remem- ber it correctly: \You have to keep writing yottr column. There • s noth- ing else to Jo irz this hideously boring place that makes anyone laugh'' • • zntons -Keeping ''U\ Safe- Contrib11ted by Safe Space - Rape Poem There is nc difference between being raped And being pushed down a flight of cement steps Except that the wounds also bleed inside. There is no difference between being raped And being run over by a truck e~cept that afterwards men ask you if you enjoyed it. There is no difference between being raped And being bit on the ankle by a rattlesnake except that people ask you if your skirt was short and why you were out alone anyhow. There is no difference between being raped And going head first through a windshield Except that afterward you are afraid not ofcars but half the human race Be aware Union: 85% of all rapes are acquaintance rap.es committed by people we know. So please communicate and be smart. Help keep Union safe. lf you have any questions, con- cerns, or simply need information call the safe spacebeeperat 1-800- 283-2255 pin #11349 (leave a number where you can be reached),. or stop by room 404B in the College Center during our of- fice hours on Sundays and Wednesday's from 7-9pm. Every- thing you teH members is kept strictly confidential. We are here to help you Dean Lewis Addresse;s Lunch Is·sue To the Editor: Although it appeared as if a news story on the front page, Frank Rossi's article entitled \New Schedule Wreaks Havoc on Lunch, Classes, and Students\ itself wreaked havoc on any con- cept of a balanced view of the matter. Indeed, a closer look at the statistics Mr. Rossi used to support his case against the new schedule would make one skep- tical of the article's headline. Let's begin with a factual claim which is simply inaccurate. Mr. Rossi states tliat \members of the AAC cl~imed that few. professors utilized a l2:25.to I :30 time slot.., Actually, the AAC had the Registrar's numbers (the ones Mr. Rossi used), which demon- strated that this time slot was heavily used. The key issue was . where the classes moved out of this slotwou1d go. Both the AAC and Mr. Rossi know the answer to that question. Most of these classes moved to periods whi-ch were heretofore not very heavily used and which do not constrain the student lunch hour at all. If you look at Mr. Rossi's numbers, you will see that most of the 28 classes formerly taught at 12:25 went to one of the TTH slots (II extra classes) or to the 2:45-3:50 MWF (8 more classes). As Mr. Rossi says, only six classes were put in the new TTHF lunclltime slot. In other words, most students who previ- ously would have been registered for a lunch-hour class now have the equivalent classes before 11 :05 or after 1 :30 TIH, which leaves them almost two and a h:alf hours for lunch, or after 2:55 MWP, when lunch is over. I tall that progress. Nor did the new schedule make the current peak worse. 'the pre- lunchtime slot (previously ll: l 0- 12:15, now ll :00-12:05) was al- ready the most heavily w~ed; not surprisingly, as the nut~bers show, the classes in this period went only from 44 to 45, essen- tially no difference. Mr. Rossi's statement that the pre-lunch time period \continued to grow\ is thus technically accurate but masks more than it reveals. We have always had more faculty who wanted to teach in that pe- riod (and more students who pre- ferred classes then) than we could physically accommodate. So it is not possible for us to have many more students who arrive at Upperclass having come straight from a class that just ended, just as it has never been possible for all the faculty want- ing to teach in the prime pre- lunch slot to do so. Similarly, measuring the total number of people eating between 12 and 1 hides more than it reveals: for more than half of that tirne pe- riod there are few people in line. It is only during about a 15- minute period that the lines are long, and they were long before the schedule change. In fact, the crux of the prob- lem was stated quite well by jun- ior Jenn Pelose, who was quoted in the article as saying that \Long lines and chaos is what you get when 2,000 people eat at the same time.\ Part of the problem is that our facilities (especially Upperclass) were designed at a time when many students never ate lunch in college dining halls; now they do. As the article states, the College is doing what it can to help out-in part by redesign- ing Dutch Hollow to check people out faster and by allow- ing freshmen to use meal swipes at the Rathskellar. The other part of the problem arises for those students who insist on joining the lunch line immediately after classes. Only a short time there- after-normally by 12:30 MWF-there is almost no line at Upperclass, and someone who eats at 12:30 has almost a full hour for a leisurely and sumptu- ous repast 'before classes start. Students who don't want to get caught in the worst lines canal- most always avoid it. Not mentioned in the article at all, is that there are significant campus-wide benefits to the new common lunch hour, all of which heavily influenced the AAC in its decision to go forward. One is that we now have common times during a good time of the day- with no conflicts withdasses- for outside spea~ers. Another is that campus-wide committees, departments, and if they wish, student groups can meet at a time when everyone's schedule is clear. A third benefit is that fewer students scheduled for an afternoon lab are faced with the dilemma of back to back classes which previously prevented them from eating lunch prior to the start of lab. Has the new schedule required a few changes like getting up 10 minutes earlier for the first class period? Yes. Will it have sig- nificant benefits, too? Almost certainly, which makes Mr. Rossi's decision not to mention them at all a bit strange. Did the new schedule \wreak havoc on lunch, classes, and students\? Hardly. As my use of his numbers will, I hope make clear, I applaud Mr. Rossi for collecting and report- ing some very useful data. I hope we can all work together to make the new schedule workas well as possible. Sincerely, Brad Lewis Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education I went to one ()f the movies at the Campus Center last weekend just to see how many people a~tu­ ally show up for those things. It was fairly disappointing; there wereri 'tall that m~ny people there. Maybe the school should think about putting 011 some more illter- esting material to draw larger crowds. I ha:ve a couple ideas ... Debbie Does Dallas ..• Three Men and Your Sister ... and this new one I just viewed and particula:rly enjoyed called ££()wn Eye. Well, I agree. There is nothing to do aroSJnd here. But :still, I wouldn't joi11 a frat. I wouldn't wantto call S()meone my '~brother\ who made me clean out puke and urine with a toothbrush (or worse yet have to ru11 down to the A-Plus and buy somethi11g). I'm my own person a11ddon't feellil<:e taking j--~....._. __ __.__..........__._ ___ . __ _.__..__.......:.__........._. ___ _,__.._..__,._...._......_ ____ _, orders from~nyone. Letters Polic;y & Disclaimer. What? Those rnovies would11' t appeal to the gelleral public? r·m sure the place W()Uld be packed. The school might even have to charge admission to keep numbers down. Just like killing two bi£ds with one stone, we could curb the Well, this edition was short Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 p.m. the Monday before mainly because I was expecting a. publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College community. submissi()ll from my alcohol-con- Final decision:'! concerning pnntlng and/or editing a submission belong to .the -Editorial Board. All letters must be suming friend• However, if anyone signed and saved on a high density disk although' the author's name need, not appear in the newspaper, if the: writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily teflect the opiniotl of the Editorial Board'. ever has an experience like my Editorials retlect the opinion of~· majority of the Editorial Board; and no one member in particular. Any opinion buddy up -at Ellis, make sure to columns, or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists; and not necessarily the opinions oftbe Editorial Board. send a narrative and I'll be sure to Advertisements appearing in TheConcordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editoriat Board. print it. My b()X 4# is 1058 for sub- 'the Concordiensls is printed by World Media, 1104 Central AVtlnUe, Alb&ny, N\', 12205. Th~Concordiensissubscribes missic:m andor nocturnal emissiQn .. Lt~o~th~e~~~~~P~r~e~$s~~·~~~~~.ti~o~na~l!S~tu~d~en~t~N'~.ew~s ~~~~~~S~yn~d~ic~a~te~s:. -......,..;~-+-,.._.,,........,..,.._,.............,._J~

Song Sung U ... Hey Union, Show Us the $$$ To Union Colle.ge, Throughout my years.at Union, I have been searching for a means to. unite our campus, to bring us just a little closer .... I think I have finally come up witb the answer: I am on a mission t() teach the en- tire Union community the Alma Mater of our school. This song could be so meaning- ful ifit was the common bond be- tween us all. Haveyoueverheard an entire stadium of people sing- ing together It is tile most won- derful, inspirational sound .. (I get the chills and the warm fuzzies at the same time. Now that is a feel- ing!) Union College is outstand- ing in so many ways. I am pmud · to be a student here and wil·l be very sad when it's time to leave. As I am a senior, rn:Y timeis run- ning outtoreachrny goal to unite . our campus. So here is my rem- edy for raising campus morale. Some pride + OtJr Alma Mater · (an inspirational song) = a · healthy, happy Union Commu- nity. I honestly beli<eve that if you take me up ori my challenge, and · everyone le<~rns IYUr Alma Mater, · • Union will bec()rne united. We will feel the difference through positive energy. The Alma Mater is our history: it reminds us of203 years of tradition, something that should be clrerished. P1ease join me in this mission to revive a spe- cial part of :Unioif. Sincerely yours, Ri.lthie Stiosberg Senior 'fruste~ Alma Mater· Let the Grecian dream of his sacred sti'eam And sing of the brave adorning That Phoebus weaves from his. laurel leaves At the golden gates of morning. But the brook that bounds thro' old Union's grounds Gleams bright as a Delphic water, And a prize as fair as a god may weal' Is a dip from our Alma Mater. Chorus: Then bere's to thee, thou brave and tree, Old Union smiling o'er us, And for many a day, as thy walls grow gray, May they ring with th:y children's chorus! by Pike M()dy Staff Writer A spin and a release, how hard can that be in terms of throwing the Men's 35 pound indoor weight for the track team? That is a question that I finally realized the a-nswer to last week. For four years I have held my breath .hop- ing that I didn't hit anybody with the mass of canvas an.d sand. Last Wednesqay, it finally happened. Although it really wasn't her fa11lt or mine, ~he conditions of the Field House are most to blame on why the collision happened. There is no place to throw in the Field House where th.e shot put or a hammer would not cross the track. Year after year, the weight team bides their time as runners keep a wary eye in our direction, and the shots and hammers fly. This year'.s collision hit a stu- dent trainer in the shoulder, knocking her flat to th-e floor. I am also a student trai11er, and as I let go of the weight attd saw it was headed toward her (worst of all, someone I knew), all I could do was yell out a four letter word ( al- though I am not sure if it was \look\ or just rhymed with it) and watch as it smashed int<J her. My co-worker, who vri:ll remain narneles~ (she has already refused to work for me ever again, so why push it), was relativ-ely unhurt. The point of this is tltat if I was a better thrower by about four A Tribute to Rush To the editor, Many people on this campus feel that the Greek rush and pledge periods cause harm to the .social lives as weJJ as academics. I feel that rush and pledging impi()Ves both of these areas. During the ru:sh period, fraternities hold .events other than alcoholic func~oils.. Some of these events are dinners, casin() nights, and tourney nights. Although these events are only ope11 for. men. the sororities on campus hold events for women in their houses, too. Rush also improves an iriCiividuals social skills. People are presented with the challenge ofmeetinj! and talking to new people. Rush aJso gives the students on campus the cilan.ce to meet more people then tltey normally would meet .. When I rosh~~ I easily doubled the amount ofpe:ople I knew on campus. Pledg]ng also improves the soc1~llives of those that choose to pledge. It accomplishes this by ~II owing individuals to live and hangout with people tltat share common interests. Stt~dent's academic lives are also improved. Wltell r11sfu and pledging are ip progress students must learn to deal with a great amount of work. In order J<~r soooeone to actively participate in rush or p.ledging, a person must find a way to accomplish all of their tasks_ That is It ow rush and pledging teach pe01ple strong tine man~gement skills. It forces individuals to balanoee tlleir activities equaUy. These skills· .are retained after pledging ends. I feel that rush and pledgillll has a lot to .offer the students of Union C()Jlege, and I encourage everyo11e to participate ifthey are given the opportunity. Sincerely, Matt Pelus01 '99 i11ches it would have hit her in the llead and could very likely haye killed her. Yes, you read correctly, this year.' s collision. Last year Damon Bizzel hit coach Jim Bois, the year before I missed senior Seth Rudin with the shot put by inches. My fre1ihman year National Champ Ricll Pulver missed coach Larry Cottrell by an even lesser margin. It is something that we guard against every p~:actice everyday, but:it still keeps happening. The reason why is because we don't have any room to throw. Now lets get a few things straight. I am not a doom's day watcher. This is just a .serious problem that we have fl()t only ignored but have ac- cepted as the dangers of the game. The worst part is that this is a dan- ger that would be relatively easy toform a solution for. What is it going to take for Union to realize thatevenlually someone is going togethurt for real? To make mat- ters worse, for some reason the NCAA had decided to have the St<tte Tournament for Indoor Track at Union this year. The thr()wers there make me look like I arn in high school. If I don't helve room to throw, then what h2pl'ens when we multiply the ru!lners and spectators by ten and decfease the amount of room to throw and increase the average distance thrown by ten to twenty feet? Disaster is what happens. If :you don'tthink that track is , an impmtant enough reason to change the setup, I invite you to join me as I work a baseball or lacrosse practice. Get shelled by lacrosse balls once or twice and then we will see if its just mere precautions we have to take or something major that net:ds done. If the rink isn't redone we don't get enough fans. Mark my words, if we don't get this problem fixed, maybe not this year, maybe not next, but sooner or later, someone is going to get hurt. If that's a gamble we want to take, I ask you one question, why don't you be the one who throws the shot put, the weight, the baseball, or la- crosse ball that does the damage to the person who might be your friend. Will it be a necessary change for you then, when you have to live knowing you hurt or killed someone for the rest of your life. Four inches higher and I would have had to live with that very thought. So, administrators of Union College and our campus commu- nity: open you check books for a real reason. The Field House was the best around when it was built way back when. Its no longer way back when. We needed an Olin Center, we needed a bigger li- brary, we even needed the Nott Memorial rest.ored. Fm once, why not build something that we not only need, but could possibly prevent someone from getting killed as well. Marino Mixed T() tl1e editor, While perusing the recent issue of The Corzcordiensis, I came across the question of rush and p!e<lging and its dfect on the cam- pus socially and academically. There are two angles that this q U(;)Stion should be pcrcci ved from. These angles arc the fresh- ma.n view and the view of the up- perclassmen. F()rmany years, campus life has always included Greek life as a11ex tremely influential aspect of our social atmosphere. A major attraction for prospective students is our Greek system. Rush is the opportunity for freshmen to br<Jaden their horizons. Now in the Rush period, all freshmen speak about is becoming part of the system. I believe that the best thing for~ freshman to do is Rush. It gives them an opportunity to meet loads of people, if they h~dn't already during the first tri- m~ter. Rush is important. On the otller hand, Rush and pledging Cclll be an unpleasant experience. Forthose who don'treceive a. bid from a ftatern ity or sorority, may h~ve their self esteem altered or d~rnaged. But I don't believe that scrneone would be so devastated thtt they are affected too much S()Cia11y. It is also up to the indi.,. villual freshman how he or she views the Greek system. The only eff~ct socially that I have wit- nessed was this past Saturday night. The Union vs. RPI game's a1te11dance was outstanding, BUT there were many girls who showed up to the game in the third period beca1,1sc there was a soror- ity Rush event. For the uppen.:lassmen, Rush and Pledging have become part of our yearly cycle. It is something that We have grown accustomed to, just as the changing of seasons. If you arc a member of a house, Rush and pledging are important, fun, exciting, and exhausting. For those of us who are independent, this time of year is not important, but we understand how important it is to our friends who are Greek. Many independents are oblivious to Rush. For many upperclass- men it may be old news. As far as academics are con- cerned, I believe that this is an aspect of the individual. If some- one is going to Rush and then later pledge, then it is up to the indi- vidual whether or not their grades suffer. F<Jr some this period in the academic year may yield prosper- ous results; for others it might be their downfall. To say that Rush and Pledging \shut down\ the campus socially and academically would be inap- propriate. There are social events that continually happen indepen- dent of the Greek system. How- ever, if we did not have a compo- nent of campus known as Greek Life, we might find a campus that is \shut down\ socia11y. Sincerely, Tom Marino '99

Science & Technology Has Science Discovered the Fountain of Youth? by Victoria Hargreaves Sdence & Technology Editor Ponce de Leon, step aside. Re- sear(;hers from the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Cen- ter and Geron Corporation. an- nounced last week that they dis- covered whatthey believe to be a cellular \fountain ofyoutn:\ Scientists believe aging is di- rectly related to the length of re- peating DNA (genetic material) segments or \DNA tags\ called telomeres which \sit at the ends of chromosomes and p~otect them from fraying\; tbelongerthetelom- ere, the longer one has to 1 ive, the shorter the telomere, the less time one has to live. Most somatic cells (body cells, not germ cells such as sperm or egg cells) can replicate between 20 and I 00 times depend- ing upon the cell's function ~md the age ofthe person to which the cell belongs. \Like minutes ticking on a clock, a piece oftelornere is lost each time the cell divides.\ The length of the telomere is deter- mined before birth. When ace II is finished dividing, the remai-ning telomeres signal the cell to become· \senescent.\ This resting condi- tion also occurs in the body. The cells decompose resulting in con- dithms often associated with old agesuch as wrinldes, memory loss, and dimi.nished senses. Some forms of cancer may also result from telomere shorten- ing. As a cell loses its telom- • eres, the chromosomes be- come more vulnerable to muta- tion. Germ cells (sperm and egg · cells) and cancer cells, unlike· somatic cells, can divide indefi- nitely because of an enzyme telomerase which stops \cellu- lar aging\ and synthesizes te- lomeres by replacing chromo- somes in the DNA. The telomerase \affects the ends, or telomeres, of the chromosomes which carry the genes.\ Cells without this'\ immor- talizing' enzyme\ are doomed to inevitable death. When a person dies of \natural causes\ says Dr. Calvin Harley, chief science officer at Geron Corporation, telomerase production ceases. Last week's announcement was Ripn'Code AnAttenptto Untangle the Web of Web Page Authoring by Jeff Ausfeld O~tllributing Writer Two main concerns of anyone key function. I rate this program who wants to make a web page are perfect for a beginner computer how can I make a web site, and, user and an amateur web page au- assuming that I can make one, thor. I will not talk about the where am I going ~---;;;;;;-.&~aaaiiillll Netscape editor to put it so II because it is a people can see low-level editor it? The viewing and it should part is taken care only be used a of nicely by little. Virtual U, a Now on to the student run web Microsoft prod- server free to all ucts that have Union students. They provide an ideal place to been recently A Jeff & Dan Article dominating the begin carving a personal niche in the rapidly expanding Internet. Those of you that remember cod- ing in a notepad-like environment can still feel tbe h.eadache of hav- ing to write everything by hand only to find out that you made a mistake four pages up somewhere. Fortunately, this is no longer the case. Even a person who knows zip to nil about html coding can make a simple page thanks to the user-friendly software put o11t by companies like Microsoft, Netscape. and Macromedia. For most of the recent web page edit- ing, I used Backstage by Macromedia and then the various versions of FrontPage by Microsoft. The Netscape editor was built into the browser software in versions 3.0 gold and above. When I moved from text coding in notepad to pictorial editing, I first used Backstage. This program was simplistic and it didn't have many ofthe nice features that the mod- computer soft- ware arena. FrontPage 95 is an easy to use pictorial html web page edi- tor. When I say pictorial,.l mean editing while you can see the web page instead of having to load the page into a browser like Netscape in order to see it. FrontPage 95 has the easy to insert pictures and links with a selection of backgroonds and fonts to make your page indi- vidual. The good thing about this program is its ability to incorpo- rate Java Applets into your page with ease. In my opinion, the com- puter user should be relatively com- fortable in how a computerprogram runs before using FrontPage 95. For those of you that know about web pages and web page coding, I'm sure that you are aH aware ofthe new FrontPage98. I have been playing with it for about a week now and it is a classic Bill Gates program. He tried to remove the human element and make the program I Ox more powerful than anything else out right now. I give ern editors have now such as a tab ita Tim Taylor\morepower\ grunt. based on an experiment in which scientists used a hatmless virus to inject retinal cells with the telomerase enzyme. As predicted, the enzyme caused the telomeres to regenerate and the cells to re- main \in a perpetually youthful state.\ \Adding the enzyme gene to normal cells elongated the cells' telomeres, and many of the cells continued to divide for more than 20 generations beyond the point when they usually give out.\ Their life span increased by more than 400/o. Some scientists fear that telomerase may cause cancer be- cause of its involvement in tumor growth; however, none ofthe ex- perimental cells became cancerous with the addition of the telomerase. Ronald Eastman, chief executive officer o,f Geron ;said th~t teiomelrase makes cells that begm mortal, live I and cells that I fyou have never made a web page before, I recommend that you do not start with this program. He has moved many of the functions into places that are at times difficult to find and you must use both tHe edi- tor and the explorer at the same time. Don't get me wrong; it is a . great program for the advanced user, it's just not for the beginner. For the advanced user FrontPage 98 has the following_ easy to use perks. Themes! Counters! Web Servers! Submit- tal Pages! Java Buttons and Applets! A plethora of images, clip art, streaming video, and mul- tiple background sound options and it shows you the web page complex inflowchartfonn. You can mix and match between hundreds of inserts until the nextmillenium. Once you have made the jump from FrontPage 95 or 97 to version 98 there is nothing that you can think of that FrontPage 98 cannot do or already has a template for. The most teoccuring problem tliat I have with the latest FrontPage is the help menu. 1 know that begin as cancerous, immortal, but \other genetic alternations\ cause cancer, not the telomerase. Dr. Woodring Wright, a professor of cell Biology at the University of Texas who helped perform the experiment said, \They [the cells] are still dividing, They were also nonnal, showing no sign ofbecoming cancerous.;' Geron Corporation hopes to counteract telomerase's immor- talizing power to combat can- cer. It is looking for a telomerase inhibitor to stop and decrease telomere growth in cancerous cells causing them to die and the healthy cells to thrive. Although telomeres hold much potential for medical miracles, researchers and scientists are quiCk to warn the public, \This .is not going to be a pill that allows you to live longer any time soon.\ Dr. Wright compares the body to a car and its cells to ali eng-ine. When one replaces the engine ·Of an old car, it does not mean that the car will run forever. It may run Ienger, \but then the transmission is go- ing to go out or the brakes or some- thing else.\ Dr. Jerry Shay, another scientist involved in the discovery likened the human body to a gas tank. He says, \Having long te- lomeres is like having a full tank of gas. Having shorttelomeres is like running on e~pty.\ ·. The and understand- can it, I just 't know where, so naturally I look it up and FrontPage tells me in bold letters that it can do it, but not where to find the desired task. It took me 5 minutes to find where to put a custom background pattern. Even with the help menu problems and the complex appearance of F'Jalt:Pcg=98,TFb1l~i:t,/:l,/:,. ing of telomeres m&y aid in gene · therapy. Scientists can remove cells from a patient, \re-engineer them,\ and then inject them hack . into the patient while the cells are stillyoung andhealth:y. Although telomere research may not directly lengthen people' !:dives, it may help cure and prevent diseases thus indirectly lengthening people's Hves. Daniel Perry, the executive director of the Alliance for Aging Research said, \Getti11g directly at some ofthe mechanisms that regu- lateaging, wemaynowmovemuch faster to deliver novel new treat- ments for diseases of aging such as cancer, age-related blindness, and heart disease.\ Sources: hiz.ya,hoo.com.fbw/ 980113/geron~/.html biz. yahoo. com/jinance/980 1131 geron~ern _ 2.html biz.yahoo. com/prnews/980 1131 de_ ce/l_ag_1. html biz.yahoo.cornlupil98/0l/131 general_state _ and_Jegional _news/ usaging_ 1 .. html www.yahoo. com/headlines/ 980113/hea/th/~toriesl cell l.html www.yahoo. com/head/ inesl 9801 !4. news/stories/ aging_l.html www.yahoo. com/head/ inesl 980114/wired/storiesl aging_ 2.html www.yahoo. com/head! inesl 9 8 0 I 1 6/ w i r e;d Is tori e s I 3.html Send questions & comments to: Jeff Ausfeld (ausfeldj@idol.union.edu) Dan Kelmanovich (kelmanod@idol.unoin.edu) Articles also posted on Internet: http://www.vu.union.edu/ -kelmanod/ . http://www.vu.unio11.edu/ -ausfeldj/ Large Three Bedroom Apartment for Rent! Conveniently Located on University Place. -Phone- Home - (518)67 4-5820 Work - (518)474-9615 ( I t \ r a \ il v s 0 \!

. . ' ·-~ .. ·~·' .--.· Science & Technology Has Science Discovered the Fountain of Youth? by Victoria Hargreaves Science & Technology Editor Ponce de Leon, step aside. Re- searchers from the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Cen- ter and Geron Corporation an- nounced last week that they dis- covered what they believe to be a cellular \fountain of youth.\ Scientists believe aging is di- rectly related to the length of re- peating DNA (genetic material) segments or \DNA tags\ called telomeres which \sit at the ends of chromosomes and protect them from fraying\; the longer the telom- ere, the longer one has to I ive, the shorter the telomere, the less time one has to live. Most somatic cells (body cells, not germ cells such as sperm or egg cells) can replicate between 20 and I 00 times depend- ing upon the ceU 's function and the age of the person to which the cell belongs. \Like minutes ticking on a clock, a piece of telomere is lost each time the cell divides.\ The length of the telomere is deter- mined before birth. When a cell is finished dividing, the remaining telomeres signal the ceU to become \senescent.\ This resting condi- tion also occurs in the body. The cells decompose resulting in con- ditions often associated with old age such as wrinkles, memory loss, and diminished senses. Some forms of cancer may also result from telomere shorten- ing. As a cell loses itts telom- eres, the chromosomes be- come more vulnerable to muta- tion. Germ cells (sperm and egg cells) and cancer cells, unlike somatic cells, can divide indefi- nitely because of an enzyme telomerase which stops \cel'lu- lar aging\ and synthesizes te- lomeres by replacing chromo- somes in the DNA. The telomerase \affects the ends, or telorneres, of the chromosomes which carry the genes.\ Cells without this\' immor- talizing' enzyme\ are doomed to inevitable death. When a person dies of \natural causes\ says Dr. Calvin Harley, chief science officer at Geron Corporation, telomerase production ceases. Last week's announcement was Ripn'Code AnAttenpt to U ntang!e the Web if Web Page Authoring by Jeff Ausfeld Crmtributing Writer T\\ o main concerm of any nne \\ hu \ants to make a \\ eb page are hD\\ can I make a \\ eh site. and. key function. I rate thi~ program perfect for a beginner computer u~er and an amateur weh page au- a..,:--uming that I can make une. thor. I will not talk about the \\here ~un I t:uing to put it ~o rmiE;i;;m;;;;;;;;;;;;;;u 9 ~tiiiiiii1 N ~tscap c editor If' because it is a I!' I ill' \IL'Willg :'·lrl h r.th.cn Glrc PI n ic~: 1\ h\ Virtual{'. a 'ltHknt run \\ cb low-kvel editor and it should on I;. lx u -.cJ a little. ,en cr frel' to all l'nion students. !'he_;. pro\ iJc an ideal place to Nov. on to the M icroso ti prod- ucts that have been recently A Jeff & Dan Article dominating the begin carving a personal niche in the rapidly expanding Internet. Those of you that remember cod- computer soft- ware arena. FrontPage 95 is an easy to usc pictorial html web page edi- tor. When I say pictorial, I mean ing in a notepad-like environment editing while you can see the web can still feel the headache ofhav- page instead ofhaving to load the ing to write everything by hand only to find out that you made a mistake four pages up somewhere. Fortunately. this is no long~r the case. Even a person who knows ;ip to nil about html coding can make a simple page thanks to the user· friendly software put out by companies like Microsoft, Netscape. and Macromedia. For most of the recent web page edit- ing. I used Backstage by Macromedia and then the various versions of FrontPage by Microsoft. The Netscape editor \\as hu i It into the browser software in ver~ions ~ 0 gold ;md ahove. When I moved from text coding in notepad to pictorial editing, r first u~ed Backstage This program was 'dmpli<;tic and it didn't have many of the nice features that the mod- ern editors have now such as a tab page into a browser like Netscape in order to see it. FrontPage95 has the easy to insert pictures and links with a selection of backgrounds and fonts to make your page indi- vidual. The good thing about this program is its ability to incorpo- rate Java Applets into your page with ease. In my opinion, the com- puter user should be relative! y com- fortable in how a computer program runs before using FrontPage 95. For those of you that know about web pages and web page coding, I'm sure that you are all aware of the new Front Page 98. I hnve been playing with it for nbout a week now and it is a classic Bill Gates program. lie tried to remove the human element and make the program I Ox more powerful than anything else out right now I give it a Tim Taylor \more power\ grunt. based on an experiment in which scientists used a harmless virus to inject retinal cells with the telomerase enzyme. As predicted, the enzyme caused the telomeres to regenerate and che cells to re- main \in a perpetually youthful state.\ \Adding the enzyme gene to normal cells elongated the cells' telomeres, and many of the cells continued to divide for more than 20 generati6ns beyond the point when they usually give out.\ Their life span increased by more than 40%. Some scientists fear that telomerase may cause cancer be- cause of its involvement in tumor growth; however, none ofthe ex- perimental cells became cancerous with the addition of the telomerase. Ronald Eastman, chief executive officer of Geron said that telomerase makes cells that begin mortal, live longer and cells that If you have never made a web page before, I recommend that you do not start with this program. He has moved many of the functions into places that are at times difficult to find and you must use both tlic edi- tor and the explorer at the same time. Don't get me wrong; it is a great program for the advanced user, it's just not for the beginner. For the advanced user FrontPage 98 has the following easy to use perks. Themes! Counters! Web Servers! Submit- tal Pages! Java Buttons and Applets! A plethora of images, clip art, streaming video, and mul- tiple background sound options and it shows you the web page complex in nowchart fonn. You can mix and match between hundreds of inserts until the next millenium. Once you have made the jump from FrontPage 95 or 97 to version 98 there is nothing that you can think of that FrontPage 98 cannot do or already has a template for. The most reoccuring problem that I have with the latest FrontPage is the help menu. I know that begin as cancerous, immortal, but \other genetic alternations\ cause cancer, not the telomerase. Dr. Woodring Wright, a professor of cell Biology at the University of Texas who helped perform the experiment said, \They [the cells] are still dividing. They were also normal, showing no sign of becoming cat~cerous.\ Geron Corporation hopes to counteract telomerase's immor- ta>lizing power to combat can- cer. It is looking for a telomerase inhibitor to stop and decrease telomere growth in cancerous cells causing them to die and the healthy cells to thrive. Although telomeres hold much potential for medical miracles, researchers and scientists are quick to warn the public, \This is not going to be a pill that allows you to live longer any time soon.\ Dr. Wright compares the body to a car and its cells to an engine. When one replaces the engine of an old car, it does not mean that the car will run forever. It may run longer, \but then the transmission is go- ing to go out or the brakes or some- thing else.\ Dr. Jerry Shay, another scientist involved in the discovery likened the human body to a gas tank. He says, \Having long te- lomeres is like having a full tank of gas. Having short telomeres is like running on empty.\ The discovery and understand- FrontPage can do it, I just don't know where, so naturally I look it up and FrontPage tells me in bold letters that it can do it, but not where to find the desired task. It took me 5 minutes to find where to put a custom background pattern. Even with the help menu problems and the complex appearance of F'lrn1:Pcg298 I IS:iTI.g±Je IS~SS· ing of telomeres may aid in gene therapy. Scientists can remove cells from a patient, \re-engit~eer them,\ aHd then inject them back into the patient while the cells are still young and healthy. AitliJOugh telomere research may not directly lengthen people's lives, it may help cure and prevent diseases thus indirectly lengthening people's lives. Daniel Perry, the executive director of the Alliance for Aging Research said, \Getting directly at some of the mechanisms that regu- late aging, we may now move much faster to deliver novel new treat- ments for diseases of aging such as cancer, age-related blindness, and heart disease.\ Sources: biz.yahoo.com/bw/ 9801 JJ/geron_l.html biz.yahoo.com/.finance/980 113/ geron_gern_2.html biz.yahoo.com/prnews/980 113/ de_ cell_ ag_l. html biz.yahoo.com/upi/98/01/13/ general_state _and _regional_ news/ usaging_l. html www.yahoo.com/headlines/ 9801 13/health/stories/ cell l.html www.yahoo. com/headlines/ 980114.news/storiesl aging_l.html www.yahoo.com/headlinesl 9801 14/wired/storiesl aging_2.html www.yahoo.com/headlinesl 980116/wired/stories! aging_3.html Send qwestions & comments to: Jeff Ausfeld (ausfeldj@idol.union.edu) Dan Kelmanovich (kelmanod@idol.unoin.edu) Articles also posted on Internet: http:f/www. vu.union.edu/ ~kelmanod/ http://www.vu.union.edu/ -ausfeldj/ Large Three Bedroom Apartment for Rent! Conveniently Located on University Place. -Phone- Home- (518)674-5820 Work- (518)474-9615 i r l I I l • i ! ( t t r 2 r 7 0 F tl p a v it \\ s1 0 \\

·Cassini: Threat or Great Scientific Achievement? by Jennifer 'fr()tts Staff Writer On October 15, 1997the Cassini spacecraft was successfully launched on its mission to Saturn, despite many protests <Jf its poten- tial danger if sometlting goes wrong. Why are people so worried about an accident? Unlike many previous planetary missions, which used so Jar power, Cassini 's energy source is nuclear. Electri- cal power for the spa.cecraft and instruments is provided by three radiois<Jtope thermoelectric gen- erators (RTGs) and thennal control is provided by a number of small radioisotope heater units. The ~uestion that plagues many con- cerned citizens is what will happen if Cassini reenters eanh's atmo- sphere due te a malfunction dur- . in_g the swing-by? NASA hasdesigne<l the Cassini mission trajectory to ensure that the spacecraft will successfully swingby Venus twice, Earth, and then Jupiter to attain the required velocity to reach Satum. The acci- dental swing-by reentry prob&bH- ity ofless than l in 1 million may be surprising to some people (at first) since it is difficult to prove- that failures ofany system, particu~ la:rly spacecraft, can he that small. The resu'lt is dri'Ven by two factors: Fi~st, for most ofthe Cassini tra. jectory it is veryhar:dto hit the Earth. ln fact; until about 50 days before Eart11 swing-by, the probability ofhitting the Earth is much Jess than one in one million, regardless of the spacecraft failure (this is be- cause ·of the vastness ofspace; thesmallness ofthe Earth as a target, and the randomness of a spacecraft failure or m icrome- , teoroid hit leading to a veloc- ity change). Second, JPL (Jet Prepulsion Laboratory) has \biased\ the tra- jectory for Earth swing-by. This scheme further I imits the time and events that could cause inadvert- ent ree_ntry by eliminating all fail~ ures that give the spacecraft the proper velocity magnitude and di- rection to impact the Earth. The spacecraft is biased 5,000 kilome- ters(3,l06 miles)or111oreaway from the swing-by &ltitude (about 1, 160 l<m) for all but 7 days prior to the s\ving..:by. Ernest Sternglass has claimed that NASA and DOE have under- ,~stirnated the potential number of . .c.lncer fatalities from a hypotheti- cal Cassin·i swing..,by accident. lloweveF, DOE a11alyses used 1)1e1hods consistent vrith practices endorsed hy independent, national and int.ernational radiation protec- ti<Jn organizations, such as the In- ternational Commission on Radio- logical Protection. 'In fact, in Sep- te!Thoer 1995, JPL formally asked ' ' . Ernest Stem glass to document the basis for his claims about the NASA and DOE analysis, Dr. Sternglass was contacted again in May, 1996, via registered letter, and asked again to validate his claims. He has not responded to either let- ter. NASA and all involved par- ties have nuclear safety as a toppriority. Preference forso- Iar power in this case was out- weighed by the speeds neces- sary to prqpel the Cassini probe the trillions of kilometers to Saturn. Even equipped with the most efficient solar panels, Cassini would still have been too massive to launch with enough velocity to achieve its mission . So it becomes a question of whether the risk, however miniscule, is worth the knowledge gained. Some of the questions sci- entists hope to answer with the Cassini probe are: What is the at- mosphere like below the visible clouds? How do atmospheric storms get started and die out? How are the polar regions differ- ent from those nearer the equator? What can we find out about the interior structure of Saturn? Why does Saturn give off79% more heat than it receives from the Sun? Just how close is Saturn's magnetic pole to its north pole? Although these may not be the most press- ing things on your mind today, it may surprise you what discover- ies could be made from such knowledge, that someday may be worth the risk. Today Cassini is traveling at a speed of more than I 09,200 ki>lo- meters per hour (67,800 miles per hour) and is more than 22,450,000 kilometers (13,950,000 miles) from Earth. It is 27,500,000 kilometers (17,088,000 miles) from Venus, where the spacecraft will perform its first gravity-assist maneuver on April26. As the spacecraft sw.ings around Venus, the planet's gravity will boost Cassini's speed for the next phase of the journey to Sat- urn. For a more detailed explanation of the Cassini Mission, check out the web page: http:// www .jpLnasa.gov!cassini/. Rock May Be a Let-Down for· Tr·ekians and Sci-Fi Enthusiasts . b G TLo b d on Mars set offin.At{g'ust 1996, teria] only around tlle fos's·Hized \Theorganicmaterialonthe.space \TheissueonlifeonMarsisstill y eo:;::Jiwrr::e,ar 0 when NASA officii:\ls declared that blcteria, not the fossils itself (It rock is almost an exact match with a very real issue,\ exclaims Bada. Science magazine ha~ released researcher's conclusions regarding the famous Martian meteorite, which underwent scrupulous in- vestigations from America 1 s finest un.:iversities and institutions. Two teams of scientists working inde- pendently from one another ana- lyzing the 4.5 billion-year-old rock that crashed into Antarctica about 13,000 years ago, reported a less- than glorious result: the signs of the organic content in 1he Martian meteorite may have actually came from Earth. For some of us, that hit a lhtle to close to home. The search for extrateiTestriallife a 4-pound, potato-shaped meteor- seems a bit fishy to me that they the bacteria found here on Earth.\ \Its just that we are not going to ite caUed Allan HHls 8400 I ap- \¥.Ollld do that). NASA scientist, This would suggest that the or- know the answer from this meteor- peared to contain fossilized bacte- Everett Gibson Jr., platitudes assur- ganic material was introduced to ite.\ NASA plans to settle this con- ria. The rocks organic compounds, ed1y that \They dm't shake our the rock after it arrived in Antarc- troversy by sending a robot to according to NASA, may have beliefonebit.\ tica, where itwas contaminated Mars i!12005 that will scoop up formed roughly 3.6 billion to 4 bi'l- Allofthe scientists do agree that with earthly bacteria. Contrary to some soil samples. The age-old lion years ago when tile climate on the i\O<:k was knocked Into space what most people believe, Antarc- questions, \Does life exist else- Mars was much wanner and moist. ab<>ut 16rnillion years dgo when a tica contains an abundant of melt where in the universe?,\ \Are we Tests on the content of the organic co111~t, or' some other celestial ob- water where there is a high poten- alone?,\ will have to be confirmed material, however, indjcatethat the j(:ct, bitMars. Form i!Jions of years tial for any meteorites to come in at a later date. Could NASA sci en- bacteria resigned a little closer to i:t floated through tile abyss of contact with to pick up bacteria. tists' argument be valid; did other home in Antarctica. Despite the SclJace before being caught in the Bada'steamstudiedtheaminoacid' researchersmistakenlyanalyzethe chemical evidence, our friends at Earth's gravitational field, where it chemistry of the meteorite, while rock incorrectly? Perhaps the fos- NASArefusetobelieveinthisdec- cnne smashing down into researchers at the University of silsthemselveswerenotanalyzed laration. A11tarctica's Allan Hills ice field in Arizona looked for organic carbon in the appropriate matter NASA NASA claims that the teams of I 984. and carbonate material. But this officials have reported. Or, per- scientists working independently JeffBada from the University of research does not suggest Mars is haps\;JNASA is a little to eager to from themselves, analyzed the rna- California at San Diego stated, or was a lifeless planet. see little green men. Students Protest Vietnam War in 1969 by David Dussault History Editor Union College has always been known to be very distant from the outside c<Jmrnunity and all of its acti-vities, nowadays at least But in January of 1969, according to an old issue of the Concordiensis, that was not the case. In an article titled~ \At Inauguration, Union Men Protest War/' ofthe January 2·1 , J 969 issue, we learn ofthe very risky expedition that approximately 75 Union students embarked on ... to protestthe Vietnam War at President Nixon;s inauguration. At this particular point in history, it was a tense time in the world of politics and for college students to atternpt any sort of protest was very dangerous and could result in anest. But Union College was willing to bus 75 willing and excited students to our nation's capital in order to hold signs and chant anti- war sentiment. It's amazing how much our school has changed sincetlle hippie times ()fftee peace and love, of which Union Co,lege whollyparticipated. Now its to the point of which ()Ur wonderful school does not wholly participate in anything significant to the point of national exposllre, ar least not in my experiences here. But its a-lways great to read of our alumnus's and their exciting times ofattending Union College, even though their experiences are in a whole different perspective than that of ours nowadays. Leaving West College on a bus embarking on what could be the turning point of tllese risk-taking Union students' lives, they joined 10,000 other college students in Washington D.C. and prepared for something that was significant to them and could put Union in the national spotlight. This adventure came to known as the \Counter- Inaugural Mobilization\ and swelled before the very eyes of Pte;si<lent Nixon, who 1 just years bt!f()te 'bad participated in a debate 011 <lur campus. \Thi:s six-block- long procession was marked by dem()nstrators (namely 75 Union stt1de11ts) chanting peace slogans and: flashing the \V for J>eace\ sign 1() hlmdreds of onlookers.\ A cc()fl1j)ar.wing this throng of pt\'otest~rs was a coffin ofb loodied <loiJ 1imbs to demoiJstrate the poi11tless Joss of fife that was prese11tly occurring in Vietnam. U11i on students knew they were Jlarticipating in a v.ery risky e:<·j)editi<ln, but proceeded to pr()testin frontofthe F. E. I building Vlflere J. Edgar Hoover presently reigned. This act of heroism at this ti111e \.Vas building into a violent pr<Jc.edure and Union students c()ntinued to participate in order to rnalce their fellow belie-vers proud, art <I t() bring back to campus with then the story of fighting for what they believed in ... stoj>ping the fit;hting in Vietnam. They\ ... threw sticks, mud and firecrackers at police and the guests. Twenty-two persons were arrested when police closed in on the bands.'' By the evening, many arrests were made, but no injured Union students were reported. As we take a look every week at the history of Union College, we can see an ascending theme-this is that our college was an atmosphere that can be labeled tense. Although we do not live in the same times or have the same type of events occurring, we can learn one thing from our history, we must be more involved. Our college has been through a lot, and I think it is time to become more of a participator in national events and perhaps put us back into the national spotlight. These 75 students had the audacity to stand up for what they believe in, and maybe we need more of that teday. Ifwe learn one thing from history, let it be this ... we have the resources and intelligence to create our own history, so lets begin that task. If there is any comments or suggestions on my weekly column, please contact me at 388-5500 or put a comment in my mailbox, #602.

I I l; I I I ilt:!f.e C!lcnt.cnbi$.usis • January 22, 1998 • Page .11 Cassini: Threat or Great Scientific Achievement? by Jennifer Trotts Staff 11/r iter On October 15, 1997 the Cassini spacecraft was successfully launched on its mission to Saturn, despite ma11y protests of its poten- tial danger if something goes wrong. Wlly are pe()ple so worried about an accident? Ut11ike many previous planetary missions, which used solar power, Cassini's energy source is H uclear. Electri- cal power fer tt.le spacecraft and instruments is provided by three radioisotope thermae lectric gen- erators (RTGs) and the1111al control is provided by a number of small radioisotope heater Uflits. The question that plagues many con- cerned citizens is what will happen ifCassini reentersearth's atmo- sphere due to a maHunction dur- ing the swing-by? NASA has designed the Cassini mission trajectory te ensure that the spacecraft will successfully swingby Venus twice, Earth, and then Jupiter to attain the required velocity to reach Satum. The acci- dental swing-by reentry probabil- ity of less than I in I million may be surprising to some people (at first) since it is difficult to prove that failures of any syste1n, particu- larly spacecraft, can be that small. The vesult is driven by two factors: First, for most of the Cassini tra- jec~ory it is very hard to hit the Earth. In fact, until about 50 days before Earth swing-by, the probability ofhitting tme Earth is much less than one in one million, regard less of the spacecraft failure (this is be- cause of the vastness of space, the smallness of the Earth as a target, and the randomness of a spacecraft failure or microme- teoroid hit leading to a veloc- ity change). Second, JPL (Jet Propulsion Laboratory) has \biased\ the tra- jectory for Earth swing-by. This scheme further I imits the time and events that could cause inadvert- ent reentry by eliminating all fail- ures that give the spacecraft the proper velocity magnitude and di- rection to impact the Earth. The spacecraft is biased 5,000 kilome- ters (3, 106 miles)or more away fr<>m the swing-by altitude (about 1, 160 km) for all but 7 days prior to the swing-by. Ernest Sternglass has claimed that NASA and DOE have umder- Ernest Sten1glass to document the basis for his claims about the NASA and DOE analysis. Dr. Sternglass was contacted again in May, 1996, via registered letter, and asked again to validate his claims. He has not responded to either let- estimated the potential number of ter. cancer fatalities from a hypotheti- cal Cassini swing-by accident. However. DOE analyses use<! methods consistent with practices endorsed by independent, national and international radiation protec- tion organizations, such as the In- temational Commission on Radio- logical Protection. In fact. in Sep- tember 1995, JPL formally asked NASA and all involved par- ties have nuclear safety as a top priority. Preference for so- lar power in this case was out- weighed by the speeds neces- sary to propel the Cassini probe the trillions of kilometers to Sattlm. Even equipped with the most efficient solar panels, Cassini would still have been too massive to launch with enough velocity to achieve its mission. So it becomes a question of whether the risk, however miniscule. is worth the know ledge gained. Son1e ofthe questions sci- entists hope to answer with the Cassini probe are: What is the at- mosphere like below the visible clouds'? How do atmospheric storms get started and die out? How are th~ polar regions differ- ent from those nearer the equa1or? What can we find out about the interior structure of Saturn? Why does Saturn give off79% more neat than it receives from the Sun? Just how close is Saturn's magnetic pole t() its north pole? Althmugh these may not be the most press- ing things on your mind today, it may surprise you what disco\ er- ies could be made from sue h knowledge, that someddy may be worttJ tile risk. Today Cassini is traveling at a speed ()fmore than 109,200 kilo- meters per hour (67,800 miles JJer hour) and is more than 22,450,00() kilometers (13,950,000 miles) fr10m Earth. It is 27,500,000 kilomet.ers (17,088,000 miles) from Venus, where tile spacecraft will perform its first gravity-assist maneuver on April 26. As the spacecraft swings arouad Venus, the planet's grav it) will b()ost Cassini's speed for tthe nextphaseofthejourney to Sat- urn. For a more detailed explanation of the Cassini Mission, check out the web page: http:· W\\\\ .jpl.ni.isu.g,o\ cassini. Rock May Be a Let-Down for Trekians and Sci-Fi Enthusiasts byGeorgeT. Lombardo Stlljf Writer Science magazine llas released researcher' sconclusions regarding the famous Martian meteorite, which underwent scrupulous in- vestigations from America's finest universities and institutions. Two teams of scientists working inde- pendently from one another ana- lyzing the 4.5 billion-year-old rock that crashed into Antarctica about 13,000 years ago, reported a less- than glorious result: the signs of the organic content in the Martian meteorite may have actually came from Earth. Fm some ~fus, that hit a little to clese to ho1ne. The search for extraterrestrial life on Mars set off in August 1996 when NASA officials declared that a 4-pound, potato-shaped meteor- ite called Allan Hills 84001 ap- peared to contain fossilized bacte- ria. The rocks organic compounds. according to NASA, may have formed roughly 3.6 billion to 4 bil- lion years ago when the climate on Mars was much warmer and moist. Tests on the content of the organic material, however, indicate that the bacteria resigned a little closer to home in Antarctica. Despite the chemical evidence, our friends at NASA refuse to believe in this dec- laration. NASA claims that the teams of scientists working independently from themselves, analyzed the rna- terial only around the fossilized bacteria, not the fossils itself (It seems a bit fishy to me that they would do that). NASA scientist~ Everett Gibson Jr., platitudes assur- edly that \They don't shake otir belief one bit.\ All of the scientists do agree that the rock was knocked into space about 16 mi Ilion years ago when a comet, or some other celestial ob- ject, hit Mars. For millions of years it floated through the abyss of space before being caught in the Earth's gravitational field, where it came smashing down into Antarctica's Allan Hills ice field in 1984. Jeff Bad a from the University of California at San Diego stated, \The organic material on the space rock is almost an exact match with the bacteria found here on Earth.\ This would suggest that the or- ganic material was introduced to the rock after it arrived in Antarc- tica, where it was contaminated with earthly bacteria. Contrary to what most people believe, Antarc- tica contains an abundant of melt water where there is a high poten- tial for any meteorites to come in contact with to pick up bacteria. Bada's team studied the amino acid chemistry of the meteorite, while researchers at the University of Arizona looked for organic carbon and carbonate material. But this research does no/ suggest Mars is or was a lifeless planet. \'The issue on life on Mars is still a very real issue,\ exclaims Bada. \\Its just that \\e are not going to know the answer from this meteor- ite.\ NASA plans to settle this com- trovers)' by sending a robot ito Mars i11 2005 that will scoop up some soi I samples. The age-o ]d questi o11s. \Does I ife exist e lss::- where in the universe'?,\ \Are we alone?,'' wi II have to be confirmed at a later date. Could NASA scien- tists' argument be valid; did other researchers mistakenly analyze the rock incorrectly? Perhaps the fos- sils themselves were not analyzed in the appropriate matter NASA officials have reported. Or, per- hap5:\ NASA is a I ittle to eager to see I i ttle green men. Students Protest Vietnam War in 1969 by Da-vid Dussat~lt HisttJry Editor Union College has always been known to be very distant from the outside community ar1d all of its activities, n()wadays at least. But in January of I 969, a()cording to an old issue of the C()nccrdiensis, that was not tile case. !11 an article titled, \At Inauguration, Union Men Protest War,\ of the January 21, 1969 issue, we learn ()fthe very risky expedition that approximately 75 Union students embarked on ... toprotest the Vietnam War at President Nixon's inauguration. At this particular point in history, it was a tense time in the world of politics and for college students to attempt any sort of pretest was very dangerous and could result in arrest. But Union College was willing to bus 75 willing and excited students to our nation~s capital in order to holds igns and c h.ant anti- war sentiment It's amazing how much our school has changed since the hippie times of free peace and love, ofwhich Union College wholly participated. Now its to the point of which our wonderful school does not wholly participate in anything significant to the point of national exposure, at least not in my experiences here. But its always great fo re·ad of our alumnus's and their exciting times of attending Union CoiJege, even though their experiences are in a whole different perspective than that of ours nowadays. Leaving West College on a bus embarking on what could be the turning point of these risk-taking Union students' lives, they joined I 0,000 other college students in Washington D.C. and prepared for something that was significant to them and could put Un.ion in the national spotlight. This adventure came to known as the \Counter- Inaugural Mobilization\ and swelled before th~ very eyes of President Nixon, who, just years before had participated in a debate on our campus. \This six-block- long procession was marked by demonstrators (namely 75 Uniofl students) chanting peace slogans and flashing the \V for Peace\ sign t() hundreds of on lookers.\ Accompanying this throng of protesters was a coffin of bloodied doll limbs to demonstrate the pointless loss of life that was presently occurring in Vietnam. Union students knew they were participating in a very risky expedition, but proceeded to protest in front ofthe F .B .I building where J. Edgar Hoover presently reigned. This act ofheroism at this time was building into a violent procedure and Union students continued to participate in order to make their fellow believers proud, and to bring back to campus witfl them the story of fighting for what they believed in ... stopping the fighting in Vietnam. They\ ... threw sticks, mud and firecrackers at police and the guests. Twenty-two persons were arrested when police closed in on the bands.\ By the evening, many arrests were made, but no injured Union students were reported. As we take a look every week at the history of Union College, we can see an ascending theme-this is that our college was an atmosphere that can be labeled tense. Although we do not live in the same times or have the same type of events occurring, we can learn one thing from our history, we must be more involved. Our college has been through a lot, and I think it is time to become more o-f a partie ipator in national events and perhaps put us back into th~ nation aJ spotlight. These 75 students had the audacity to stand up for what they believe in, and maybe we need more ofthat today. If we learn one thing from history, let it b-e this ... we have the resour<:es and intelligence to create our own history, so lets begin that task. If there is any comments o.- suggesti()nson my weekly column, please contact me at 388-5500 o.- put a comment in my mailbox, #602.

MONDAY, MARCI'I16, 1998 • 9:00-11:00 A.M. TUESDAY, MA.RCH 17, 1998 • 1:00·3:00 P.M. (Continued} 810*026\01 The Cell w/Lal> Danowski/Smith BAIL207 GRK*130*01 Homers The Odyssey Toher, M. HUMN 113 810*046*01 Intra to Psychobiology Weisse, C. BAIL 102 MER*035*01 Engineering Reliability Bucinell, R. NWSE205 810*154*01 Developmental Biology w/Lab Boyer, B. BAIL201 ti!1TH*010*01 Calculu~ 1 Zwicker, W. BUTR 109 CER*033*01 Fluid Mechanics w/Lab Jewell, T. BUTR 300 PHL*132*01 Sem:Leibniz through Kant Ludwig, J. HUMN 119 CHM*150*01 Physical Chemistry 1 w/Lab Anderson, J. BAIL 106 PHY*120*01 Astronomy & Astrophysics Marr, J.M. NWSE303 CHW121*01 Intermediate Chinese 2 Feng, J:P SSCI213 PSC*011' 1 01 Intra to American Politics Fox, R. HUMN 114 CLS*021*01 History of Greece Meckler, M. HUMN 019 CLS*044*01 Poetry & the Cosmos Mace, S. HUMN 110 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 1998 • 9:00-11:00 A.M. EC0*139*01 Public Finance McCarty; T. SSCI 012 810*010*01 Biology 1 w/Lab Tobiessen, P. BAIL201 EER*143*01 Electromagnetic EngiReeri~g 1 Chang, Y. NWSE 116 810*012*01 Biology 2 w/Lab Pytel, B. SSCI.014 ESC*022*01 Mechanics H:Material Science Milillo; F. NWSE210 810*150*01 Evolutionary Biology Boyer, J. SSCI012 HST*013*01 History of LJS. to Civil War Sterngass, J. SSCI112 EC0*051*01 Environmental Economics Kenney, J. S$01103 HST*014*01 History .of US Since Civil War Peffer, A. HUMN 115 EC0'140*01 Labor Economics Prosper, P. SSOI112· HST*035\'01 History of Europe 1 Sargent, S. SSCI103 EER*144*01 Communication .Systems 1 Hassib, E. NW$E210 HST*036*01 History of Europe 2 Hansen, E. SSCI104 FRN*010\01 Basic French 1 Scheue[, A. HUMN110 HST~036*02 History of Europe 2 Berk, 8. HUMN 114 FRN*011*01 Basic French 2 Dogbe,C. HUMN112 JPN*121*01 Intermediate Japanese 2 Wojnovich, M. SSCI 010 GE0*011*01 The Earth & Life thru Time Shaw, G. '13VTR 201 JPN*131*01 Advanced lnterm Japanese II Kwrichara, N. HUMN 113 GER*010*01 Basic German 1 Kellenter. S. HUMN 116 MER*164*01 Solar Energy Analysis & Design Wilk, R. NWSE205 HSP044*01 The Second World War Era Hansen, E. SSCI·104 MTH*100*01 Orthogonal Functions Bick, T. BAIL 100 MER*033*01 Fluid Mechanics I w/Lab Shanebrook, J. JIJWSE222 PHL*020*01 Logic & Critical Reasoning Womack, C. SSCI016 PSY~010*01 Intra to Psychology oeeono, K. BAIL312 PSY*020*02 Statistical Methods/Psychology Greenberg, S. BAIL300 P$Y*020*01 Statistical Methods/Psychology Morling,B. BAIL102 PSY*024*01 S_oGial Psycholegy DeBono,K BAIL312 PSY*025*01 Experimental Psych w/Lab Burns, D. J. :BAIL300 PSY*046*01 lntro to Psychobiology Weisse, C. BAIL 102 SPN*011*02 Basic Spanish 2 lzurieta, I. 'HUMN 114 SOC*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL312 SPN*120*01 Intermediate Spanish 1 Torres, B. HUMN 115 SPN*149*01 La Generacion del 98 lzurieta, I. HUMN014 SPN*121*02 Intermediate Spanish 2 Camacho, L. HUMN 117 MONDAY, MARCH 16,.1998 • 1:00-3:00 P.M. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 1998 • 1:00·3:00 P.M. AMU'*030*01 American Music Olsen, T. ARTS 215 MlH*010*02 Calculus 1 Muc~enfuss, J. BUTR 109 ANT*025*01 Anthro Prespective:Childhood Brison, K. HUMN110 Ml'H*012*01 Calculus 2 Bick, T. :BAIL 104 ANT*0.75*01 Biology of Homosapiens Boyer, J. BAIL 104 Ml'H*012*02 Calculus 2 Hart, J. ARTS 109 810*075*01 Biology of Homosapiens Boyer, J. BAIL 104 M1H*012*03 Calculus 2 Rosenthal, K. 'BAIL201 EC0*012*02 Introduction to Economics Motahar, E. SSCI112 Ml'H*012*04 Calculus 2 Hart, J. ARTS 109 EER*040*01 Circuits & Systems w/Lab Spinelli, J. NWSE116 M1H*G15*01 Calculus 3 Cervone, D.P. HUMN014 EGL*027*01 Comedy Heinegg, P. HUMN 115 MlH*OW02 Calculus 3 Johnson, B. HUM~J 019 FRN*121*01 Intermediate French 2 Curran,. A. HUMN 014 Ml'H*031 *01 Linear Algebra & Diff Equation Zulli,L BAIL 100 GER*011*01 Basic German 2 Giguere, U. HUMN 116 Ml'H*031 *02 Linear Algebra &DiffEquation Rosenthal, k BAIL201 GER*139*01 German Lit: 19th Century Hamm·Ehsani, K HUMN 213 MTH*058*01 Appls of Math to Eco 1 Fairchild, W. BAIL207 GER*149*01 German Lit & Culture:19th Cent Hamm-Ehsani, K HUMN 213 MTH*058*02 Appls of Mathto Eco 1 Fairchild, W. BAIL207 HST*045*01 Tudor England:1485-1603 Halliday, P. SSCI104 HST*113*01 Popular Culture in Amer Hst Sterngass, J. HUMN 114 THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 1998 • 9:00·11:00 A.M. MER*041*01 Engineering Design 2 w/Lab Keat, W.O. NWSE222 AAH*012*02 Intra to Art History- 2 Matthew, L. ARTS 215 MTH*056*01 Geometry of Nature Frame, M. STZH 106 ACC*010*01 Survey .of Accounting Fisher; I. HUMN 110 MTH*140*01 Linear Algebra Johnson, B. BAIL300 AMU*021*01 Music History & Lit 2 McMullen, D. ARTS 313 PHL*012*01 Reason & Experience Ludwig, J. ARTS 109 ANT*067*01 East Asian Development/Society Reynolds, B. SSCJ014 PHY*042*01 Ideas of Modem Physics Topor, N. NWSE 114 BI0.165*01 Neural Circuits & Behavior Olberg, R. BAIL102 PSC*084*01 Political Sociology Weiner, T. SSCI103 CLS*032*01 Religion in tl:lePagan World Scullion, J.S. HUMN 112 RUS*011*01 Basic ~ussian 2 Powell-Sapienza HUMN 113 CLS*051*01 Sem:Aiexanderthe Great Toher, M. HlJMN 213 SOC*124*01 Political Sociology Weiner, T. SSCI103 EC0*014*01 East Asian Development/Society Reynolds, 8. SSCI014 SPN*120*02 Intermediate Spanish 1 Camacho, L. SSCI·0·14' EC0*141*01 Moneta-ry 'Economics -Kwok, C. SSCI 012 SPN*121*01 Intermediate Spanish 2 Moyant'l, P. HUMN f17 EGL*021*01 Major English Authors 3 Frazier, A. tllJMN 115 EGL*035*01 Studies in World Lit Heinegg, P. SSCI016 MONDAY, MARCH 16, 1998 • 4:30·6:30 P.M. GEO*Q25*01 Tectonics Garver, J. I. BUTR 201 i- CSC*010*01 Computers & Computing Almstead, L. STZH 106 MTH*028*01 Probability Bowman, R.A. BAIL 106 -~ I ' CSC*010*02 Computers & Computing Hedrick, J. HUMN 019 PSC*012*01 lntro International Politics Brown, C. SSCI104 CSC*010*02 Computers & Computing Hedrick, J. HUMN 019 PSC*062*01 Supreme Court&J udiciaiPolitic Fox, R. SSCI112 PSC*162*01 Political Leadership in Amer Underwood, J. SSCI110 ~ TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 1998 • 9:00·11:00 A.M. PS'Y\01 0*04 lntro to Psychology Rubonis, A. BAIL207 T' AAH*012*01 lntro Art History- 2 Eyerman, C. ARTS 215 PS'Y*050*01 Educational Psychology Paludi, M. EAIL201 810*010*02 Biology 1 ~/Lab Fleishman, L SSCI014 PSY*062*01 Practicum in HLJman Relations 1 Dowling, T. EAIL312 BI0*012*02 Biology 2 w/Lab Minorsky, P. COLC 810*147*01 Immunology w/Lab Lauzon, R. HUMN 014 THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 1998 • 1:00-3:00 P.M. 810*170*01 General Endocri11ology Butterstein, G NWSE 116 CER*152*01 Environmenlal Engg 1 w/Lab Gremillion, P. STZH106 CER*142*01 Soil Mechanics w/Lab Ghaly, A. BUTR 300 CHM*010*01 Fund Chemistry t w/Lab Hagerman, M. HUMN 019 CHM*182*01 Protein Biochemistry w/Lab Fox, K. STZH 106 CHM*010*02 Fund Chemis_try 1 w/Lab Carroll, M. HUMN 019 CHN*011*01 Basic Chinese 2 Feng, J.P SSCI213 CHM*032*01 Organic Chemistry 2 w/Lab Sowa, J. BLJTR 204 EC0*131*01 Topics in Microeconomics Schmidt, S.J. SSCI110 CHM*032*02 Organic Chemistry 2 w/Lab Huii,L BLJTR 204 EGL-022-01 Major American Authors MacDonald, B. HUMN 117 EC<J*042*01 Macro Theory & Policy Kwok, c. SSCI103 ESC*025*01 Electric Circuits w/Lab Fatic, V. NWSE210 IMP'012*01 lnt Math/Physics 2 w/Lab Barbanei/Reich NWSE 112 \ FRN*120*01 Intermediate French 1 Scheuer, A HUMN 112 IMP'012*02 lnt Math/Physics 2 w/Lab Barbanei/Reich NWSE114 '\ FRN*132*01 Survey:French Lit 2 Dogbe, C. · HUMN 119 MTH\017*01 Calculus IV: Integral Vector Zl!lli, L. BA.IL 106 GER*120*01 Intermediate German 1 Giguere, U. HUMN 116 GER*121*01 Intermediate German 2 Giguere, U. HUMN 116 FRfDAY, MARCH 20, 1998 • 9:00·1'1:00 A.M. li GRK*011*01 Principles of Greek 2 Mace, S. HUMN 213 AAH*034*01 · 19th Century Euro Paint/Sculpt Eyerman, C. ARTS215 HST*019*01 America between the World Wars Henry, S. SSCI104 ANT*018*01 Applied Anthropology Schaefer, J.G. SSCI110 5 HST*056*01 History of Poland 6erk, S. HUMN 115 CER*129*01 Analysis & Design of Structure Mafi, M. BlHR 109 I HST*078*01 Classical Africa Miller, AT. SSCI 010 CHM\012*01 Fund Chemistry 2 w/Lab Werner, T. BAIL 106 HST*084*01 The Scientific Revolution Sarger1t, S. HUMN 114 CHM\012*02 Fund Chemistry 2 w/Lab Lou, K. BLJTR 204 JPN*011 *01 Basic Japanese 2 Wojnovich, M. ARTS 210 EC0*148*01 Seminar: Econometrics Schmidt, S.J. HtJMN 014 l.AT*011*01 Principles of Latin 2 Scullion, J.S. HUMN 110 EER*118*01 Digital Computer Design w/Lab Traver, C: ST2H 106. MER*062*01 Thermal Energy Conversion Wicks, F. NWSE222 ESC*021*01 Mechanics I w/Lab Anderson, A.M. NWSE205 MTH*099*01 I ntro to Logic & Set Theory Taylor, A. STZH 108 f.RN*144*01 Exoticism Curran, A. Hl:JMN113 PHL *159*01 Post Modernism Patrik, L. SSCI105 Hfi:B'011*01 Basic Hebrew 2 Almog, M. Hl:JMN 116 PHY*016*01 Physics/Life Sciences 2 w/Lab Marr, J. NWSE 114 HST'129*01 African-Amertcan Thought Miller; A.T. SSCI103 PHY*051*01 lnterm Modern Physics w/Lab McWhirter, J. NWSE328 LAT*145*01 Cicero Meckler, M. H~MN 119 PSC*013*01 lntro to Political Thought Board, J. SSCI112 MTH*124*01 Geometry Franne, M. BAIL 100 PSC*033*01 20th Cent Amer Polit Thought Marso, L. SSCI 012 PHL *() 38*0 1 Eastern Philosophy Patrik, L. H~MN112 PSY*010*02 lntro to Psychology Benack, S. BAIL207 PHL*174*01 Biomedical Ethics Baker, R. HUMN117 PSY*010*03 lntro to Psychology Donaldson, G. BAIL201 PHY*052*01 lntermed Classical Mechanics Maleki, S. STZH 108 PSY*033*01 Psychology of Memory/Thinking Burns, D.J. 8AIL312 PSC'139*01 Seminar:Polilical Theory Marso, L. SSCI105 PSY*038*01 Developmental Psychology Slanhope, L. SAIL300 PSY*030*01 Personality Marling, B. BAlL312 SPN*010*02 Basic Spanish 1 Osuna, M. BAIL 106 RUS*132*01 Russian Literature 2 Poweii-Sapienza HUMN213 SPN*130*01 lntro:Spanish & Spn Amer Lit Moyano, P. BAIL 100 SOC*037*01 Social Movementsflnterest Grps Willison, M. t-JWSE222 TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 1998 -1:00-3:00 P.M. FRIDA.Y, MARCH 20,1998 ·1:00-3:00 P.M. ANT*010*01 Cultural Anthropology Cool, L. HUMN 110 EC0*012*01 Introduction to Economics Schmidt, S,S. SSCI016 810*072*01 Preserving Biodiversity w/Lab Schadler, M. BAIL 100 EC0*012*03 lntroductionto Ecormmics Schmidt, S.S. SSCI016 EC0*020*01 Intra to Statistical Analysis Okeeffe, M. HUMN 01~ ITL*010*01 Basic Italian 1 Faustini, G. SSCI-014 EC0*031*01 Microeconomic Analysis Reynolds, B. SSCI104 ITL*010*02 Basic Italian 1 Faustini, G. SSCI014 EER*148*01 Digital Circuits Hassib, E. NWSE222 PHY .. 017\'01 General Physics 1 Dunn, J. NWSE116 EGL*046*01 Modern Drama Frazier, A. HUMN 112 PHY*017*02 General Physics 1 Dunn, J. NWSE300 ESC*017*01 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 2 w/Lab Almstead, L. NWSE114 PHY .. 017*03 General Physics 1 w/Lab Khosropour, R. NWSE 114 ESC*017*02 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 2 w/Lab 8ucinell, R. NWSE116 PHY*018*01 General Physics 2 w/Lab Jones, C. NWSE304 E SC*017*03 Fund~mAntal<> of E.ngiCS 2 w/Lab Macherone. 8 r-JWSE 210 PHY\018*02 General Physics 2 w/Lab Topor, N. NWSE304 E SC\'17*04 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 2 w/Lal> Wolfe, F.A. NWSi:110 PHY'*018\'03 General Physics 2 w/Lab Rodriguez, G. NWSE328 GE0\020*0j Mineralogy w/Lab Hollocher, K BUTR 201. SPW011*01 Basic Spanish 2 Torres, B., _ . . HUMN 114

414 State Street Soheneetady#NY ........... .......... 0. a-.r..-s•cell .... ,..... .... 12305 Ill PRICES + fll **372-7272** ....... ossed PIZZA Deficitl$e»l 6-CRt 8-Cut 12-Cut Grated Ch~ese 5.45 6.45 7.95 Cbeese 5 .. 9:5 7.95 8.95 Each Add'l Topping l.lS 1.55 1..95 Half Topping .5;8 .78 .98 II D1ldi11 ,., ..... 24-Cut 11..45 13.95 3.25 1.63 11:30 - II Sunday -1 - 9 FAST .,_LI'VWIIYI -- \--- ~ ..... Plaa l Hand:, Tossed PIZZA Masnifieo! 6-Cut 8-cut 12-Cut 24-Cut C'bicken Deluxe 7.45 9..45 13.95 19.75 ,tlariluztd Chicken Redleti utuler tz b'-'&:d o-f.tlo~ Gao:se t6(J'IH:d willr tcuy Spices Boston Cheddar 7.45 9.45 13.95 19.75 :1 hklf4 qf' Slttup C'lu!d.dar d .lln\'...::.ardla Clteestt:S .n\n\ lite S4UCe and tapped with Oregtt~to ' i White Fresh Garlic 7 .. 45 9 .. 45 13.95 19 .. 75 ! o-r-..-., -c~~pN/ItlidJ .\,_,...,, .~~~-..I~FN!:M Gwli.c f I TOPPINGS INCL,UDE: Extrn Cheese\ Sausage, Peppercmi. 5-Cb.eese Pizza 7.45 9.45 13.95 23.45 ! The l11imale Clree:se Lm.•ers Pi::;tJ ~ Ricotl/8., .llo::::;t:ll\ella. Cheddar. .Utmterey iMJ Ptll\mt!lUIII ,. Mushrooms. Onions. Greenl\'J<.ed Pepper.s. Black OliVes, Bacon. Fresh Broccoli, F'res.lr Tomatoes. AJtchovie.s, .Jalapeno Peppers, 5-chee.-,:e., Presh Garlic. Meatball.~· qnd Ground Beef. .Meatball Sub 3.45 Sausage 3.45 Steak & Onion 3_435 Cllicken Parm 4-.45 Eggplant Parm 4.45 Sub.<C\ inclutk Mo~fJ,. clteese S~Cheese Cal:zone 3.80 Adtl Broccoli, Mushroom; Gree11 Pepper, MeaJba{l, Chicken. Onion. Pi!pperoni or Sausage for .SO ex:tra Ctzl:umes are ,o;erved wi.tlt • .vid'~ of sauce ity RoHs also avai.Ja:b,.le. with any l Toppi 3.50 ······~ ............. ........... -- ,.._. II·TOPRWI ftr ...... tiMrt.taWDiltrfctt 12 Wings ..... 3 .. 95 24 Wings ...... () .. 95 36 Wings ..... 8.95 50 Wings ..... 14.95 SAUCES: Mild, Honey ,Mustard. Medium, Hot, BBQ and Cajun \'Celeryt Carrots & Bleu Che<eM mc::luded .. c:stnttO.-der .95 __________ ..........___..... _, ·- \ Chicken Fingers ..... 3 ... 95 \ French Bread. ......... 1 .. 00 \ Mozzarella Sticks ... 3~95 ,.,.\Fresh Dough .. ·····~· ..... 95 su~·,Pizza Bread .......... . .. _... -- .. -- ! W\.e ..d.H .urw A VJtrktyj . ' ~ \\ ~res~ Stntns ~.11Uv ! f f r- ~ ! I ~rD~~':.-~~,-~~~!'_!!~:.J The \Vorks SAS 11..95 13.95 23.45 , 1 PtpputNJi. Saa:rage, Jfu.'fkroona. (;N!'Y!rt P~ mui .4nchoW'ev ~or- ~e ytMt- mftllf t Mexican Pizza 8.45 11.95 13 .. 95 23.45 I Cayt!ltN! Pepper, FNSh r-uu- •. Jftmlt!n'!)'A Chedi!Ju, Taco .Ueat. Onions & Par:r:ltr.J• !,,. Veggie Pizza 8.45 11 .. 95 13 .. 95 23 .. 45 Fl'r!!:fh B~ ,t(u.~laro(m11.1. OniOII;$. Grf!IM J~pen. Biddc 0/ivQ & Fnt!:llf G•rlic Eggplant Parm 8 .. 45 · t 1.95 13.95 23.45 Saumaed Eg;gplime Spt'Urkled wiJfl Groted Cheese & Ongano, Topped widr .lfo-~ Broccoli Cheddar 8.45 1 1.95 J.3.95 23 .. 45 ()u FamotL'I 8~ m<er a lis<!! tsttUc:c! topped witlr .t.f~ tUtd Slliii.I'P Clfill44fv CltJei.!i!Ge Meatball Ricotta 8..45 11.95 13.95 23.45 Goui\1'114 MrmlbctJU toppetl willt Ricotta. ,Jioz:::a-lhl. .UOftb!rey. ClreJtlar & Grlllfl4 Clttl!att:S BBQ Chicken 8.45 11.95 13.95 23 .. 45 .•t liB(! Cnut c01<<el\d with RBQ Chi<:ken, Chea~ Sffllteed Onwn.v. Red Onion & PIU'$I.ey Sweet &.Sour Chicken 8 .. 45 11.95 13.95 23.45 .·l Sw.!et & S011r siiMCtl! wiLit .Jfa.riJuJtlf!J([ cltidte:n, .J.fn\'~ anJJleJ d Gnwt Pqptl!r.l l ~ -- hiiJ $pedals -,1 :.>laf.... '_, ________ , _____ ~---, ', IJ' .>•\\\ t~l f- .. •· ··~';'! 'SIIIi•~·\··· . L·Y ~.--·::--v·J\' . . .. .... .., ........... Lunch Specials 11:30- 3:00 All Day Specials Monday I -Topping C'a/::ones ••••• 3.00 8-Cut Cheese.,_ ...... 6.00 Tuesday Meat/o(.'if & Potatoes •• ..3. 75 Dozen ~Vings .......... 2.95 \Vednesday Pasta Day (Various) .... 3.00 A1ry flot Sub ........... 3.00 Thursday 'lcGourmet P'i::za Dqym .... l.OO 8-CutCheese & -= 1.00 per G£mrmet slice Dozen Wings ........... 9 .. 95 Friday Ma<.\CCroni & Cheese ...... 2.00 6-Cut Cheese ........... S.OO . [. .... Ires. Salacls --1 Dressings: lialian. Ru.~sian. f!reJrch / 1 Llle .Italian~ Ranch, House Salad ............ sm. 1.50 lg. 2.45 Bleu Cheese & , A . \ s· . I- d- 1 ,. 4\ 2\ s·· Rasberry / nt1pasto . a a .*\ .... g. . . . /PII•r . . Vuu11grette ,/ · Want FREE PIJmC~? Collect 10 Magnets and.., .. ..-- Cll IID.,t ~~~~~~~==~~=·~· ~·~··~- Delhr!!_ an _a-~ Cheese, F~!J_....--\' Me.m lllljii!iiiii!iiiiii!ii!iiii -------------------------- SPECIAL CouPoN!!! Get a 24-Cut Cheese Pizza, 12 Chicken Wings (Any Flavor), & Any 2-Liter Soda For Only $16.001!! Papa Cicco's Pizza & Pasta 414 State Street, Schenectady, NY 12305- (518) 372-7272 (Tax Included- Expires 1/25/98) - .... ----------·-------------·--. ,'...,!,.

by Michelle Tham Features Editor Harry has a wonderful laugh and a spry sense of humor. He wins at Bingo and his face lights up like those tiny lightening bugs do when dark falls in the summer. Harry suffered a stroke a few years back, but he is still an adorable man. I don't know how old he is. Maybe somewhere between 60 and 70 years lie behind him, filling him with experience and a softened heart. I have b eell intern i,ng at Sunnyview Hospital in the Reha- bilitation Ce11ter. I deal mainly with stroke victims. Honestly, it's a scary experience. Not because I am afraid ofthe patients or that I will do sotn.e- When I am 60 yef!rii mid, wjll I look back. and shudder from some awful realization; tile. realization that l killtld mys-elf ovel' Dothing and lost happinessalo~g. tile way? I guess that the~e are: !til ridicu- lous questions to be p()sfng in the pages of a newspaper:buithey are something to think abOI!t. Some- thing to spark my hear1; an<! force it to won<ler if being successful means auything if I arn It.ot happy with my life. Becat~se i11t.erning at the hospital has shovrn me that every litile thing I l:lave iis so im- portant. I have use of IJoth my arms, I can ~peak, I can Mall ow, .r can smile; That is spectaculctr. I neve.r think about jt r never think:. tllat all of thing wrong and my scholastic affect the hospi- effol'ts are tal in a negative pointle:ss. They way, but because are lea·<ltng me I have seen the some'Where.; future and I am arei)' tthey? An frightened. M~P. cle_gree In my overly a11d ~ome six philosophical, figllre saJary dramatized \i- o 11 e !Ia;,. These sion of life, I things have watch these pa- been irngrililled tients and rea:lize ill m)' m i 11 d as that I will be old equivalents to one day. Of happiness, and course, this is the I thi11ko 11tat I absolute last have discov- thing I should be eredafter lline- thinking of as a sophomore in col- teen years that they are 11at. lege. This is the time I should be I woulc love the succ:-e1»s ofbe- swimm ing fhrough schoo I in a ing a ritzy plastic surgeo11 irt s<Jme foggy, idealistic haze drowning in Beverly Hill-ish spa co~nplex and social life and other such lovely I suppose ()De day 1 willlutvethat, things. But in all honestly, I feel but I have decided that l:.b:sollltely the time running forward and drag- will not kill myself to do it. It's not ging me lifeles.sly along the way. worth it, to live in a haze ()f GP' A I have tried to make the best of and tenn papers. my life and attempted to maximize This pllsil to succeed h;as con- the hours ofthe day in which I am sumed me for far too lo~tg. I want actually accomJ>lisiling something to be nineteen and youn~ ami vi- of meaning. It's a hard task, to live brant. IHo()k me .eight bo11rs with and experience and love without a group of weathered .stnke vic- losing the drive to succeed and the tims to realize thatthey vre['e more desire to matur~. alive that r was. Their lau~llter a~d Things in tllese four years of their playfulness stupa::;~;ed my college mean so much, count for own. 'I have been erode-d by the everything, detennine the world crashing waves of college life in for me. I don't know if r like that all of its ulcer-pulsing sp lend()r. pressure or the <Jverwhelm ing im- So here _g()es. A new te:m1, with plications of rny every single ac- a slightly altered out!o<Jk. J.mltere tion. I think everyone feels it. And to treasure my time a11d triY y~uth. maybe all the partying and crazi- I am here to challenge m)'s.elfand ness of these college years is just give m ysel flife. I refuse•!() getlost , an outlet for the pent-up anxiety. in the insanity of \bein~ some- The years between age 18 and thing.\ I.have lost too ma11yh().urs 25 are crazy. They are filled with to worry. We have all l<Jst too so much uncertainty and wildly much time. Bodies grow<Jider, but spinning changes. hearts still hold onto the,.autll of And I look at men like Harry and the past. I wonder. Will all of this mean And we do not want ,t() disap- anything one d\y? Will all of my point the demands of OlU:t o-wn anxiety and stress over being an hearts. It's time we all wentamtan€1 \A'' student; a socialite, or a ma- played Bing<J and smiled justbe- ture adult be worth the hours I lost? cause we ce~n. TERM ABROAD ·Exploring the Wonders of Rennes, France by Jennifer Pelose Copy Editor \E . d th\ xcuse me, · · o you go to .. 1s . school?\ That'.s the question I have had posed to me a few times • this week. No,. I am not a fresh- : man.. No, I am not a transfer stu- • dent But,I am a:juniorwhospent · · th·is past fall on a term abroad in Rennes, France with fifteen other . : Union students, along with Profes- • sor Leamon of the modern Ian- : guages department. When I first decided to study in Rennes, I had n() idea what to ex- pect, especially since I made the decision to go in February, seven months before I boarded the plane. Finally, the day to get on the plane came ... a,nd Shannon, my present • roommate, and I traveled around · England and Scotland for ten days ·before meeting the rest of the group in Gare Montparnasse in Paris at 3 PM to make the trip to Rennes, a city with a metropolitan area of about280,000 in Bretagne, about two hours west of Paris. Arrival in Rennes was awkward. Professor LeCalvez, the organizer of the program at the Universite de Rennes 1, where we went to school, met us at the train station and shuffled us across the street to a hotel where we met our French host families ... M<Jm and Dad for two and a half months. The car ride to my new home was awkward ... J was speaking a dif- ferent language to 13eople -I hardly knew, but they 1mew Union Col• lege; I was the nineteenth Union student to live with the· Lashley family. Getting used to living with my new parents was tough in the . beginning, but after a couple weeks, I began to realize the ben~ efits. Every night we watched the news which was interesting to see the French perspective of events in the United States and how dev- , astating the war in Algeria is, a war most Americans do not pay.rnuch . attention to. Livit1g with a family definitely improved my French. Attending a Fre11ch university as an American was an interesting experience. Since most of us lived a significantdistance from school, ·we had to rely <Jn public buses to 'get to class. We t<>ok our classes in the same room in the econom- ics building at the. Universite de Rennes 1. Union students take· ·three courses together, ()fie .in grarnrM~r, taught by Pr()fessor LeCalvez; one in civilizatio.n, taught by another French profes- sor; and one in literature, taught by the Union professor who accom- panies tbe group. And ofcourse, all the olasses were in Frencll. Tile French students could pick all ()f us out, and eating at the Restau- rant U11iv:ersitaire, the French equivalent ofUpperclass, was al- ways the chaotic experience. WhileinFrance, Union students do everything together, from classes to field trips to eating ba- guettes from the same comer store a block away from school to checking our email from Francois, who owned a small computer com- pany and made a killing off us! We all spent at least some of.our time on Rue Saint Michel, known to the Fre11ch as \the thirstystreet\ where the students from aU the universities in Rennes go on Thursday nights. Our field trips exposed us to the different faces of France. One weekend, we spent chateauing the Loire Valley. An- other weekend, we traveled toO Mont Saint Michel and Saint Maf.o on the northern coast borderi:11g the English Channel. And our last trip took us t<! Chartres cathedral: and Fountain:bleau, where Nap<>leon lived. Due to Rennes' proJCimity to Paris and the impressive French TGV high speed trains, weekend trips are common. And unlike Union, in France there is Toussaint vacation for everyone in France'' lasting five days. We all went our separate ways, some went t<J En- gland, ltaly, or Belgium, and oth- er~ traveled to Berlin, Amsterdam, orNice. . After C()rnpleting the ten week program in Rennes, it's hard for me to fathom that I did all of that just last term as a 20 year old, from living with strangers who became family to just putting on a back~ pack, stepping onto a train, and going anywhere in Europe. Look- ing at my pictures puts everything back into rea-lity, that I had take11 advantage ofone of Union'~; best opportunities, the term abroa(J pro- gram, an opportunity which was one of the most exciting times in my life. :fc ye · or: is; a Vi in sit he ·IS sla tio as I go th~ slo sib ac it1 Sir pri I art. rig asJ slo r~a suf Me W3i out son mu to I son , :F tae; ref1 art: chi1 <>ft catl l

Concordy ·Wtt9 .i$ tlie:;~~l¢$t Member~oftlle····· UnionC~ll~~ Campusr .. The Wonder of ging, Rll.s~hin · and Other Such> . Thing~:.·.:; ... ~~t~~~~~,: '-\<.'J: by Michelle Tham Featu~res Editor Harry has a wonderful laugh and a spry sense of humor. He wins at Bingo and his face lights up Hke those tiny l~~ghtening bugs do when dark falls in the summer. Harry suffered a stroke a few years back, but he is still. an adorable man. I don't know how old he is. Maybe somewhere between 60 and 70 years lie behind him, filling him with experience and a softened heart. I have been interning at Sunnyview Hospital in the Reha- bilitation Center. I deal mainly with stroke victims. Honestly, it's a scary experience. Not because I am afraid of the patients or that I will do some- When I am 60 years o Id, wi H I look b.ack and shudder from some awful realization; the realization that I killed myself over nothing and lost happiness along the way? I guess that these are all ridicu- lous questions to be posing in the pages of a newspaper; but they are something to think about. Some- thing t<l spark my heart and force it to wonder if being successful means anything if I am not hap.py with my life. Because interning at the hospital has shown me that every little thing I have is so im- portant. I have use of both my arms, I can speak, I can swallow, I can smile. That is spectacular. I never think about it. I never think that all of thing wrong and affect the hospi- tal in a negative way, but because I have seen the future and I am frightened. \It took me eight my scholastic efforts are pointless. They are leading me somewhere, aren't they? An M.D. degree and some six figure salary one day. These things have been ingrained in my mind as equivalents to happiness, and I think that I have discov- hours with a group of weathered stroke victims to realize In my overly philosophical, dramatized vi- sion of life, I watch these pa- tients and realize that I will be old one day. Of course, this is the absolute last thing I should be that they were more alive that I was. Their laughter and their playfulness surpassed my own.\ thinking of as a sophomore in col- lege. This is the time I should be swimming through school in a foggy, idealistic haze drowning in social life and other such lovely things. But in all honestly, I feel the time running forward and drag- ging me lifelessly along the way. I have tried to make the best of my life and attempted to maximize the hours of the day in which I am actually accomplishing something of meaning. It's a hard task, to live and experience and love without losing the drive to succeed and the desire to mature. Things in these four years of college mean so much, count for everything, determine the world for me. I don't know if I like that pressure or the overwhelming im- plications of my every single ac- tion. I think everyone feels it. And maybe all the partying and crazi- ness of these college years is just an outlet for the pent-up anxiety. The years between age 18 and 25 are crazy. They are filled with so much uncertainty and wildly spinning changes. And I look at men like Harry and I wonder. Will all of this mean anything one day? Will all of my anxiety and stress over being an \A\ student , a socialite, or a ma- ture adult be worth the hours I lost? ered after nine- teen years that they are not. I would love the success of be- ing a ritzy plastic surgeon in some Beverly Hill-ish spa complex and I suppose one day l will have that, but I have decided that I absolutely will not kill myselfto do it. It's not worth it, to live in a haze ofGPA and term papers. This push to succeed has con- sumed me for far too long. I want to be nineteen and young and vi- brant. It took me .eight hours with a group of weathered stroke vic- tims to realize that they were more alive that I was. Their laughter and their playfulness surpassed my own. I have been eroded by the crashing waves of college life in all of its ulcer-pulsing splendor. So here goes. A new term, with a slightly altered outlook. I am here to treasure my time and my youth. I am hene to challenge myself and give myselflife. I refuse to get lost in the insanity of \being some- thing.\ I have lost too many hours to worry. We have all lost too much time. Bodies grow older, but hearts sti II hold onto the youth of the past. And we do not want to disap- point the demands of our own hearts.lt'stime we all went out and played Bin go and smiled just be- cause we can. TERM ABROAD Exploring the Wonders of Rennes, France by Jennifer Pelose Copy Editor \Excuse me, do you go to this school?\ That's the question I have had posed to me a few times this week. No, I am not a fresh- man. No, I am not a transfer stu- • dent. But, I am a junior who spent this past fall on a tenn abroad in Rennes, France with fifteen other Union students, along with Profes- sor Leamon of the modern lan- guages department. When I first decided to study in Rennes, I had no idea what to ex- pect, especially since I made the decision to go in February, seven months before I boarded the plane. Finally, the day to get on the plane came ... and Shannon, my present roommate, and I traveled around England and Scotland for ten days before meeting the rest of the group in Gare Montparnasse in Paris at 3 PM to make the trip to Rennes, a city with a metropolitan area of about 280,000 in Bretagne, about two hours west of Paris. Arrival in Rennes was awkward. Professor LeCalvez, the organizer of the program at the Universite de Rennes I, where we went to school, met us at the train station and shuffled us across the street to a hotel where we met our French host families ... Mom and Dad for two and a half months. The car ride to my new home was awkward .... ! was speaking a dif- ferent language to people I hardly knew, but they knew Union Col- lege; I was the nineteenth Union student to live with the Lasbley family. Getting used to living with my new parents was tough in the beginning, but after a couple weeks, I began to realize the ben- efits. Every night we watched the news which was interesting to see the French perspective of events in the United States and how dev- astating the war in Algeria is, a war most Americans do not pay much attention to. Living with a family definitely improved my French. Attending a French university as an American was an interesting experience. Since most of us lived a significant distance from school, we had to rely on public buses to get to class. We took our classes in the same room in the econom- ics building at the Universite de Rennes 1. Union students take three courses together, one in grammar, taught by Professor LeCalvez; one in civilizatiou , taught by another French profes- sor; and one in literarure, taught by the Union professor who accom- panies the group. And of course, alrl the classes were in French. The French sttldents could pick all of us out, and eating at the Restau- rant Universitaire, the French equivalent of Upperclass, was al- ways the chaotic experience. WhHe in France, Union students do everything together, frnm classes to field trips to eating ba- guettes from the same corner store a block away from school to checking our email from Francois, who owned a small computer com- pany and made a killing off us! We all spent at least some of our time on Rue Saint Michel, known to the French as \the thirsty street\ where the students from aU the universities in Rennes go on Thursday nights. Our field trips exposed us to the different faces of France. One weekend, we spent chateauing the Loire Valley. An- other weekend, we traveled to Mont Saint Michel and Saint Male on the northern coast bordering the English Channel. And our last trip took us to Chartres cathedral and Fountainbleau, where Napoleon lived. Due to Rennes' proximity to Paris and the impressive French TGV high speed trains, weekend trips are common. And unlike Union, in France there is Toussaint vacation for everyone in France lasting five days. We all went our separate ways, some went to En- gland, Italy, or Belgium, and oth- ers traveled to Berlin, Amsterdam, or Nice. After completing the ten week program in Rennes, it's hard for me to fathom that I did all of that just last term as a 20 year old, from living with strangers who became family to just putting on a back~ pack, stepping onto a train, and going anywhere in Europe. Look- ing at my pictures puts everything back into reality, that I had taken advantage of one of Union's best opportunities, the term abroad pro- gram, an opportunity which was one of the most exciting times in my life. ] Ic ye or IS a VI in si1 he is sic: tio as! go tho: sic sit' ac it? Sir pri 1 art rig as] slo rea suf Me wa OUI S<Jr mu to i sor f the refi a r~ chi oft cab J

P'i'ocrastinating is one thing that I c:amtruly say I am good at. While ye:s, I am talented at ether endeav· · or:s 1 sitting around and doingjack is; something that I could win an awa:rd for. Since coming to Union in the fall of 1996, my ability to sit around has leaped t() new he ig;hts. So, the question is, why is 1Jnion College so conducive to slilcking off? Well, the answer to this qu.es- ti()n really depends on who you as~. Ask a professor (that is if you go to class), and they will tell you thaf we, as a college, are lazy and sbtbfut because we are little para- sit-es.. We live off our parents, not a care- in the world. Could this be it? lsthis why. much like Homer Simpson, my couch has my ass pdnl!:on it? In fact, I am Writing this week's artie I~ from my spot on the sofa rig:ht now. While categorizing us asp!lrasites, leeches, or soille other sloi!L~lilce creature might be a good rea::s011 why we are lazy, it does not sufti!Ciently answer the qpestion. I mean, look at this c()llege .. Mostly everything that we can waii!lt is in walking distance from ourr.ooms. Now,. I· know tilat for so111e of us walking is a little too mlJ:;ch work, but hey, even l need to leave the confines of.the room sometimes. · :Po;od and drink are located ei- tlle;r in. the room within the micro refE'ig~rator (yes, a microwave and a refrigerator as one piece 1>f ma.:. chi11ery), or one can walk to .one ofthe.rnany vending machines lo- cate<l in the dorms. There is one for food and, of .cours~, one for a sophomore at Union College, is drink. Ifyou need alcohol, then go up for tlw Nobel: Prize in the Art to one ofthe many Greek houses ofiaiiness. on campus.. If you in the;.past have read my The college is a self·contained articles, then you know without universe. In most cases yo~ can fail that at some point in the ar- even get your roommates to d<1 tide I must mention sex. SeJC with most ofthe things that you won ~t me is like a drug. You know if ordon'twantto do. Th-e only thing you're not having it, then at all that I have not been able to g~t ·times you are thinking about want- peopleto doformeyetismylaun- ing it, having it; or being a part of dry\ Once I can find some to do it. I have made myselfanicehome this small chore for me~ then l am. here in the gutter; without fail, in in heaven. an article that has nothing to do So far we have only one reason with sex. why Union College studentsor,.t<> Reason number four: I don't be more precise, why lams<> lazy. · have a significant other that rnoti· Since no one wants to view them~ vates me to get my butt of the selves as a bug, we can dis:re:.gard the bug theory. People say thett my motto is \what can be done today can always be done better torn or-- row.\ couch .and out of the room. Sure, I have female friends that say that ifl snow some sort oflife then they think they know someone for me. In fact, I have accepted my fate, So reaso~ number two that hun and once I get out of college 1 am so lazy is that I have trapped my- entering the priesthood. I wi lll!ave self in a loop that I can never get moved from the lazy college stu- out of. It seems that I am 11Iways dent to the lazy priest. putting something off. Becallse I In the end, when all is said and never want to do any ofthe work done, there·is truly no one reason that I have, I end up with all this that can be given on why I am so free time and thus spend it sitting lazy. Modem science says that it on my ass in front ofthe TV. Usu- could be genetics, but don't tell ally watching Tina bitch-sl\lpping that to my parents. They'd flip. ~ ~· Tammy on the Jerry Springer · Other adults might say that it is show. just a product of youth anl:l that it · Wh;ile we all need a healthydose is a faze that I will soon grow out of bitch slapping once every other of. My friends say that it is because day, or somewhere around that I am always in such a negative schedule, Mr. Springer d<les not mood. I don'tunderstand how this help me get my economics hom(l- can .lead to being lazy' but so be it. work done, nor does he adeqi.IC~tely As for me, I think somewfJer:e explain why I am so lazy. out there over the rainbow along With that we come to re11son · the yellow brick road is an answer number three of why Mr. Sc.llu_Itz,.. for why l am the way I am. BEAUTIFUL DISASTERS The Greek System at Union College by Matt Aronowitz Staff Writer To pledge or not to pledge. That is a personal decision that shouid not be taken lightly. Ei- ther way, you are deciding what the rest of your college years w.ill be like. As an independent, I have no firsthand experience on pledging, but I have talked to several ''Greek\ friends of mine from Union and from other schools. I have come to the conclusion that p !edging gets a far worse rap than it deserves. The fact that I did not pledge should not be taken into consideration when reading this article. I am just coming to my own conclusions from gathered infor- volved. Fraternities and sororities are based on brotherhood/sisterhood and friendships, If students in col- lege just received bids and were sworn in immediately, the new brothers/sisters wouldn't get a chance to bond with their fellow brothers/sisters. This is where the meaning and core of pledging en- ters. As a group, the new pledges are picked on, ridiculed, thrown off buildi11gs, whatever. This gives a chance for the entire group to somehow ''join together and fight the enemy.\ You '11 notice that at most fra· t~miti'es and sororities (and most especially sororities) the people who are the best friends with each other were usually in the same pledge class. The reason for this, mation. The Greeks at Union may or may not agree with this article, but if you ask any Greeks how they felt about their own pledg- ing (in retro- spect), chances are they would say it was amazing, even though they went ''Pledging is most likely, is that there was a point, dur- ing pledging, when these people found traits or char- acteristics in others that they admired or related to. similar, except others are finding themselves along with you. It gives a chance for the pledges to bond and connect in a way that cannot be done without a ~:::::::::======================================;! through hell. strict enforcer. \ I'm going to compare pledging to an outdoor survival course. Most survival courses are designed to help people find who they \really\ are ·- ... Visual£~rspectivcs on Sorority Life . ... ~ ;:'~~' ' ~- ' ' Also, this article is not meant to be an advertisement in favor of go- ing Greek or not. I am just trying to get to the heart of this phenom· ena. People who do not pledge feel that either they do not want to lose their personal identity or they don't want to be treated like dirt for a certain period of time in or- der to gain \acceptance.\ The former is an issue that completely depends on the individual; there- f.ore, I will not get into it. The lat- ter is widely misunderstood, out of ignorance. Most independents just l()ok at the surface of the issue and feel that there is absolutely no reas()n f()rpledging. If you actually look deeper into the issue, you will re- alize that there are, indeed, reasons for the pledging process. Let me explain. Some people believe th:at the only reason pledging takes place is for the satisfaction of the pledge master, or whomever, to fulfill the dark side of human nature. In other. words, this gives them a chance to be the ultimate bully and have some fun at the expense of other .people. While this is partly true; there is another factor in- through an intense physical and emotional ex- periences.·- things like living with· out normal food for a few days, intensive hiking, or being forced to defecate into a plastic bag for a week. During this time you \find yourself.\ Pledging is similar, except oth· ers are finding themselves along with you. It gives a chance for the pledges to bond and connect in a way that cannot be done without a strict enforcer. I realize that I might not con- vince some people on the impor- tance of a pledging period, but this article is-basically directed towards freshmen that already have de- cided to pledge. My advice is if you start, finish no ma1ter what. Don't quit be- cause you cannot handle it, be- cause it will be over sooner than you think. When you look back on your experie11ce, you will realize that you have shared an intense expe- rience with some o_fyour very best friends, and you will have memo· ries and stories that will probably last a lifetime. Sort of like the Prom. (I'm just kidding about the Prom.)

Procrastinating is one thing that I can truly say I am good at. While yes, I am talented at other endeav- ors, sitting arouNd aNd doing jack is something that I could win aA award for. Since coming to Union in the fall of 1996, my ability to sit aroumd has leaped to new heights. So, the question is, why is Union College so conducive to slacking off? Well, the answer to this ques- tion really depends on who you ask. Ask a professor (that is if you go to class), and they will tell you that we, as a college, are lazy and slothful because we are little para- sites. We live off our parents, not a care in the world. Could this be it? Is this why, much like Homer Simpson, my couch has my ass print on it? In fact, I am writing this week's article from my spot on the sofa right now. While categorizing us as parasites, leeches, or some other sloth-like creature might be a good reason why we are lazy, it does not sufficiently answer the question. I mean, look at this college. Mostly everything that we can want is in walking distance from our rooms. Now, I know that for some of us walking is a little too much work, but hey, even I need to leave the confines of the room sometimes. Food and drink are located ei- ther in the room within the micro refrigerator (yes, a microwave and a refrigerator as one piece of rna\' chinery), or one can walk to one ofthe many vending machines lo- cated in the dorms. There is one for food and, of course, one for drink. If you need alcohol, then go to one ofthe many Greek houses on campus. The coHege is a self-contained uaiverse. In tnost cases you can even get your roommates to do most of the things that you won't or don't want to do. The only thing that I have not been able to get people to do for me yet is my laun- dry. Once I can find some to do this small chore for me, then I am in heaven. So far we have only one reason why Union College students or, to be more precise, why I am so lazy. Since no one wants to view them- selves as a bug, we can disregard the bNg theory. People say that my motto is \what can be done today can always be done better tomor- row.\ So reason number two that I am so lazy is that I have trapped my- self in a loop that I can never get out of. It seems that I am always putting something off. Because I never want to do any of the work that I have, I end up with all this free time and thus spend it sitting on my ass in front of the TV. Usu- ally watching Tina bitch-slapping Tammy on the Jerry Springer show. While we all need a healthy dose of bitch slapping once every other day, or somewhere around that schedule, Mr. Springer does not help me get my economics home- work done, nor does he adequately explain why I am so lazy. With that we come to reason number three of why Mr. Schultz, ,, a sophomore at Union College, is up for the Nobel Prize in the Art · of Laziness. If you in the past have read my articles, then you know without fail that at some point in the ar- ticle I must mention sex. Sex with me is like a drug. You know if you're not having it, then at all times you are thinking about want- ing it, having it, or being a part of it. I have made myself a nice home here in the gutter; without fail, in an article that has nothing to do with sex. Reason number four: I don't have a significant other that moti- vates me to get my butt of the couch and out of the room. Sure, I have female friends that say that ifl show some sort oflife then they think they know someone for me. In fact, I have accepted my fate, and once I get out of college I am entering the priesthood. I will have moved from the lazy college stu- dent to the lazy priest. In the end, when all is said and done, there is truly no one reason that can be given on why I am so lazy. Modem science says that it could be genetics, but don't tell that to my parents. They'~. flip. Other adults might say that it is just a product of youth and that it is a faze that I will soon grow out of. My friends say that it is because I am always in such a negative mood. I don'tunderstand how this can lead to being lazy, bat so be it. As for me, I think somewhere out there over the rainbow along the yellow brick road is an answer for why I am the way I am. Visual Perspectives on Sorority Life 'Ql'lye OJomnrbiensifi ·January 22, 1998 · Page 15 BEAUTIFUL DISASTERS The Greek System at Union College by Matt Aronowitz Staff Writer To pledge or not to pledge. That is a personal decision that should not be taken lightly. Ei- ther way, you are deciding what the rest of your college years will be like. As an independent, I have no firsthand experience on pledging, btU I have talked to several '\Greek\ friends of mine from Union and from other schools. I h.a\e come to the conclusion that pledging gets a far worse rap than it deserves. The fact that I did not pledge should not be taken into co11sideration when reading this art ic I e. I am just coming to my own conclusions from gathered infor- volved. Fraternities and sororities are based on brotherhood/sisterhood and friendships. If students in col~ lege just received bids and were sworn in immediately, the new brothers/sisters wouldn't get a chance to bond with their fellow brothers/sisters. This is where the meaning and core of pledging en- ters. As a group, the new pledges are picked on, ridiculed, thrown off buildings, whatever. This gives a chance for the entire group to somehow \join together and fight the enemy.\ You' II notice that at most fra- ternities and sororities (and most especially sororities) the people who are the best friends with each other were usually in the same pledge class. The reason for this, m<ttion. The Greeks at U11ion may or may not agree with this article, but if you ask any Greeks how they felt about their own pledg- ing (in retro- spect), ch<tnces are th.ey would say it was amazing, even though they went through hell. \Pledging is most likely, is that there was a point, dur- ing pledging, when these people found traits or char- acteristics in others that they admired or related to. similar, except others are finding themselves along with you. It gives a chance for the I'm going to compare p !edging to an outdoor survival course. Most survival courses are designed to help people find who they \really\ are pledges to bond and connect in a way that cannot be done without a strict enforcer. \ Also, this article is not rnea11t to be an advertisement in favor of go- ing Greek or not. I am just trying to get to the heart of this phenom- ena_ People who do not pledge feel that either they do not want to lose their personal identity or they d()n 't want to be treated like dirt for a certain period of time in or- der to gain \acceptance.\ The fonner is an issue that completely depends on the individual; there- fore ,I will not get into it. The lat- ter is widely misunderstood, out of ignorance. Most independents just look at the surface of the issue and feel that there is absolutely no reason forpledging. Ifyou actually look deeper into the issue, you will re- ali2ethat there are, indeed, reasons f<Jr the pledging process. Let me explain. Some people believe that the only reason pledging takes place is f<>rthe satisfaction of the pledge master, or whomever, to fulfill the dark side of human nature. In other words, this gives them a chance to be the ultimate bully and ha\e some fun at the expense of other people. While this is partly true~ there is another factor in- through an intense physical and emotional ex- periences -- things like living with- out normal food for a few days, intensive hiking, or being forced to defecate into a plastic bag for a week. During this time you \find yourself.\ Pledging is similar, except oth- ers are finding themselves along with you. It gives a chance for the pledges to bond and connect in a way that cannot be done without a strict enforcer. I realize that I might not con- vince some people on the impor- tance of a pledging period, but this article is basically directed towards freshmen that already have de- cided to pledge. My advice is if you start, finish no matter what. Don't quit be- cause you cannot handle it, be- cause it will be over sooner than you think. When you look back on your experience, you will realize that you have shared an intense expe- rience with some of your very best friends, and you will have memo- ries and stories that will probably last a lifetime. Sort of like the Prom. (I'm just kidding about the Prom.)

Health Care. Those t'WQ WDrds have been the source of much dis~ussion recently. l'ro~bly becal!se we a11 a nation know the importance of investing in a healthy rub.lre. So. do mill.iom of r.atit>n!s 'vl1o choose cluropracttc ru the1r prdenred source of health care. The chiropractic; beliefs in fitness, nlltrition, prcvcntiort, and natural maintenance maK:e g<XJd SC!l~e. Well ness, yo\l see. is the normal state ofbclflg. New YorkStale govemment.a,grees. They have recent!{' passed the Insurance Equaliry bil ·that mandates insurance , ccwerage fr>r chiropracrk care. For <wer 75 ye:ars, Nt.-w York Chimprnl:t:ic College hns·UJlbel<l: a tra:ditio.n of excellence in chiropractic: higher educ:~tion. Our <;umbincd trnditions, old :and new, hllve built the base .from which the chimpra~tic d<>Ctors of tl1c:: future are created. Choose New York Chiropractic College. A healthy invc:srm<:nt for today .tnd tomorrow. .NEWYORK 1. CHlROPRACTlC COLLEGE REDEEM THIS COUPON AT DUTCH· HOLLOW FOR THE OMELETI'E OF YOUR CHOICE 2>6oRoulc s9so:necaFall•, PREPARED F·OR YOU BY ONE OF EXPERT NY 13148·CJ8()() Phonc:31S/$6B·3040or OMELETTE MAKERS. Call us today at S00-234-NYCC (6922) 8001:23+-NYCC (6922) to schedule a visit of our be<~utjfui Fnx: 31SI568'3Q87 REDEEMABLE DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY. ~~i6-iKirei-~Pi~iin=n;n;~;N;e=~=Th=&=·~~~=m=~=m=~;h;~;~;~;~;~;~~~~~~~~~iM~O~~-FW.7~0-10~0 '7 nigbtwfrom.·Sa?2! tncl>udes R'Y a.i:r ... ho*r.•lll.· 2.o4 hours of\ free cihrinks and ~ldy party sch,edule of · •prin,g break events! Organize 1 S frei.nd:$ and E..A.A.N A FREE TRIP! WUY J-IOWLE~S? ~~ . IA.ON-1HO~~ &O.A/4 .. lA~ . fftiiOAM - aAM M'1111t JIGdlrS XPJrS: ~~·1H0Je'S IAM--aAM \..,t~~• FJtf V.M~4AM · SA1 tiAM- 2AI'Il SA1 JAIA.-3AI#. , SUN Ji!P~ • Jlfl'tll ~· IPil-taAI'l i ~ 1.) t.A~<iES'T t>£LIVE~Y MeNU ~~ 1J4S CAJ>rT At.. ~ltiiOW! : 2.) CONVSt--ltEt-11 Fe'el.IASL£ JIOIJ~S. WJI&W EVS~YONS eLSE ~ fS SLJt:PJW~ Wtt'~E OPEN AS LA 7S AS 4AIA! j 3.) L.OWES1 /t\JNfMOJt\ Ore'E:lEI' FO~ i>fJLIVSJtY! WS ! ~£QUJR'E ONLY A $5 M.JWIMJJ/t\ FO~ F~SE I>SU'/I~Y! f I 4.) L.O< A 1JON! riOWL.Zlt'S IS <:5t-J'T~ ALLY L.OC::A '1&1>. ONLY 1 J BLOCK FltOM. UNJOW C:OLI .. ~~~ A 11HE COR'NER' OF r FOS'1E~ ~ JlA17JE S'1R'EE15. l S.) EXP~ESS PEl..tVEFe'Y! SIMPL.£ OFr:>ertS <:AN Afe~IV~ j W11riJN 1.5·2.5 MJNOTES. CO/t\PL.EX OJrt>eF?S MAY 1 A~E ! A Lf1'TL.E LONGE~ - WE'LL LE7 YOU t:t-JOW JIOW LONG. ~ 6.) P~1C::E!S!!! t>OLLAFe FO~ t>OLLA~ Wf. ~IVf. YOU MO~£; ' VALliE FO~ 1HE! SOC:~! PLEASE C::OM.PA'teE! 17.) QOALrTY 1 At<ES EXPE~IENC::E: F~O/t\ ()UJ{' SYRACUSE WIN~ ~EC1PES 10 OOF! VJ<:\10~V1Lt.~ <:A f\JZZA~ WS A 1 J.ICWLE'f?S rlAVE OVE~ 30 YEA~S C0/1\BJNer> ~ XPEJeiENC::E! i -I\~ANP llii~P)S 3 MtJKP ~JiASONS! ; ,. .. -------- ... ...---- --------r- --------- .. ~.Buy 1 Pizza• FREE • FREE • I I . I .I . : any~ size, : WJNG.S! I FINGeRS! : I get one I Buy f2 Get 6 Free I Buy 24 I : If. \ 1 : or I Chicken Fingers, I 1 ha -pr1c.e., 1 Buy 24 Get 12 Free 1 Get 6 FREE!! I I Tappi11gs Extr.a I ANY VARfETY I fT11•t'•3oFult~el*f!!J I I Equal 01 /.~s-uu Value I Alld 1'1-wM·s. Plwllly of V11r1ety 1 1 1 1 I . I 1 I I I I. -- -,. ~~f!'Mr~. IJfd'r ~ 1J1 ~~ma ~&T\.JMM'>,-t~~ ml.-l!?,lf.m'lt''r:W~M,.- • .a ~: 'i ·' I ' P! t1 It( ( w ing · wee~ to b~ stol) Aca: will( mine abou and· A me wher I carr myr• Th Ama as m beca a rna Well, sex c to try sente this .n with1 ably He name caHec of per witho plain COlJ.fd many Ht~ shine1 lspen there worki ship a of C Art, [ my\\ brary would ting a1 statim All I I he wa day, r' the oc pictUfl find 01 Th· notic~ wasth his he shook hands has we his Iifi callust nothin son. It Merch 30 so aboard the we becaus shiph~ Now, I the tirn You people, tain re' plain?'

22, l!J98 • A Healthy Investment in Your Future Health Care. Thus<\ two word~ have been rhe muroe of muc.h dls~usslon ren:·nth·. l'n:.>D;Iblv be\.1use we as a nat1on 1--::;::::~ know ihe import;tn<·e of investing in a he alrhy funtrc S<> Jo rnill«ms of pa(ients who chouse duroprad.i<. .<S their prefcrr.:J 'oun:e of health ..:arc. The d1impractic· beliefs in tltne~s, nntrirl{Jn. preventivn., and natural n1a.Jntcn.:~nce ntake good ...,en~e. ~~~ \\'ellncs,, \Oil sec, is the normal ,;;.tate of bt:~ng New Yurk Sta;e govcr.nm<:nt agrees. They have rel·enth pa~~cd the In~urann: Equality hi I! that mandates insurance toverag<'\ for (·hirupr1Ktk (Jre. Fnr over 75 !\'\r', New York Chiropractic Colkgc h<H uphdd a traditi<m of cxc-clh·nn .. m ..:hin•practtt hight·r edu.:atton. Our <.onnbincd ttaJitions, uld and rww, have btult the ba:;c from whirh the: chiroprac.ti~ d<>ctnrs vf the future urc: created. Ch<x-sc- New Y<1rk Chiropr.~cti<- Col!l\\w .. A hl'a.lthy investment for t<}(!ay and ton1orrnw. <.:all us today .tt soo .. 234 .. NYCC ( 6922) to ~thcdulc a v\it of our bc<IUtil\11 2Ro une campus in <\<'ntral :'-lt·~v York 2 tt.O RmHo:- !l9 s~ ne<· > F .. u,, 1'\Y !314li-0800 !'hun~: 315/51\8 .. 3040 or ~00/2:14-l'\YCC {6922) Fa.x: J !51568-3087 E-mail: enrnlnow«.1lnyn·.cJu REDEEM THIS COUPON AT DUTCH HOLLOW FOR THE OMELE'l\l'E OF YOUR CHOICE PREPA.RED FOR YOU BY ONE OF EXPERT OM-ELETTE MAKERS. REDEEMA..BLE DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY. 7 nights f'rom $222! lncl Lu:ies RT illlltr .. hoteL 24 hours of fr~ drinks .and ~k~y p.arty :s.c:hedule of -spring break eventst OrganLze 15 \frei n-cb and EARN A FREE TRIP! WUY HOWLEI:e'SP ~~ MON-1JIIJ~S IOAit\ ~ lA~ F\ lOAM ~ aAM. AF1Jit IIGIIIt$ XPiri!SS: I#.ON·1H01tS IAM-aAM Flf'l aJ.II-..~4AM SAl U.AJt\ • 2AM. S/.1 JA/1..-31.14 SON iilPM. - JJPM $'UW triA·UiAit\ L) ~AR'<iES1 t>EL.IVE~Y MENU ll'ool 7HE <:APr1 AL ~l<iiOW! 2.) CONYf~ISN1 Je'SLIABL£ JIOO~S. WHEN &VG~YON' SLSE fS SL~EPJ~c.i w~·~r; OPEN AS LA1f! AS 4AIA! 3.) L.OWES7 Mlt'-JIMUM O~P~lt FOR l>&L.IV&ftY! Wfi. ~EQUJ~E ONL. Y A $5 MINJ/t\0/9\ FO~ Fft££ r>GLJVETeY! 4.) LO<:A1JON! HOWLE~'$ IS <:Gt--17Je'AL.L.Y LOCAlE£). ONLY J BLOC):: f'f(OM. UNJON COLLEG~ A11HE CO~NE~ OF I I I I I I I I' I I I . I I ~~. I I I I I I FOS1E~ (. HA 11JE S1~EE15. 1 S.) EXPFESSDELJVS~Y! ~~PLE O~PE~SCAN A~~IVE ·~F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ wr1utN 15~as MINuTEs. coMPLEx o~r:>e~s MAY 1AKE ~ 143 Days Until Graduation!!! A LI11LE LONGE~- ~E~L LET YOU KNO~ UO~ LON~. :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6.) PRJC:~S!!! t>OLLA~ FO~ POLLA~ WE GJV£ YOU 11\0~E V ALU~ FO~ 1HE BUC~! PLEASE C.OIA.P A~E.! 7.) QOALI1Y 'TAKES EXPEJt»IEN<:E: F~OM 001(' SY~AC:OSE Wlt-J<i ~EC:JPES 10 OlJ~ VJ<:'TO~Vft..L.E, <:.A PIZZA, WE J..1 HOWLE~$ HAVE ovc:~ 30 YEAF!S COMBINE£> [;XPER'JENC:E! . .uANt> Jlfi~JiS' 3 /ttOKP ~PASCNS.l r··--------~-----------r•••••··---~ r Buy ·t Pizza • FREE • FREE • I I I I : any· size, : WINGS! : FINGERS! : I gef one I Buy 12 Get 6 Free I Buy 24 I : : h If .. 1 : or : Chicken Fingers, : ll a -priCe.. 1 Buy ?4 Get 12 Free 1 Get 6 FREE!! 1 ·I 1oppmgs£A·tra I ANY VARIETY I (TIII•t\s30FI1l!Jifii•'!!J I ' I l qual M i !I$ Stl/ V~IIJ& : Anci li~te,; Pi<mty of Var1ety : : I I I I.-- ·H~JfJMf'.,(r'r mtn ~~m'~&T'Itr'ffti>~,'Pr!~ mfl- ~~rJ?.~'f't:Wmtl!~-- .I .. ' ~·~__,.,,~;r.....---,·-\\\\~--..,:~.;;&... ! j I !I !I I I ~! /I Fe c ~ ing wee to b star: A C< will min abo1 and Am( whe I car myJ Tl Am as n be c< am< Wei sex' to tr: sent( this 1 with abl-y H~ name calle ofpe with• plain couh man) HE shine I spe1 then work ship of C Art, I my' brary wouf, ting 2 statio Alii hew: day, 1 the o pictUJ find c T~ notic was tl his h shoo hands has w his li1 callus nothir son . Me rei 30 $( abo an thew bee au ship h Now, the tir Yot peoplf tain re plain?

Jon Tapper's Not-So-Mild Commentary on Current Events tioned this story. _ enough with the mentis already. 'ilr~e (!!~roiensi5 ·january 22, 1998 · Page 17 • '' ,/,:,•.' • •._,_,,•,,' .. ~.; ,\;•_ •~d .';~ • __ ,_.:.,,,:·. ,:'.,r• '•'\ -- • . RUSH-ing Around the Clock by Jon Tapper Contributing Writer As I am sitting at my computer I have found Rush tOo he an in- were too tired to go one night? Do typing my article, yet another fast teresting time ofyearollthis cam- by Reuel Daniels they get penalized? That should ·food menu got shoved under my pus. I can only comp;are it to be- Staff WriteT n0t happen. What a week. So many interest- door. Which brings me to my next ing approached by 2 0 different As an athlete, I have a commit- ing things have happened this question, how in the world do used car salesmen try lrug to g~t you RUSH. One word could not de- mentto my sport, and that involves week. I don't eve11 know where these guys keep getting into the to purchase a car from tllem. It is scribe this process better. We seem weekend races, which take us to begin. Maybe r'H start with a dorms? Seriously, I don't under- interesting to sit b~ac!k and hear to be RUSHED into one house, away from RuSH. The story that really hit l!ome with me. stand how, they can keep doing it. everyone's \sales pit:cb\ if you RUSHED from one sister to the Panhellenic Council has worked to A case ofmistaken identity, if you To my knowledge, in order to will. next, and then RUSHED out to the help us RUSH around our con- will(notreally,butonlyinmyown get up to my room, you have to The Superbowl istl\is Wc:!ekend. next house, and then the process flicts, and hopefully we will not mind.) l have a habit of reading get through two locked doors. The The Denver Broncos W~dill he tak- starts all over again. mi:ss any opportunities. It just about current stor.ies in the U.S. key word in that sentence was irtg on the defendi11g :Champion I know it is ahard thing. to do to seems that if you don't show up, and world news when I go onto \locked.\ Yet every single time, Green Bay Packers. 'I ;am predict- try to meet everybody under the you are finished. I say that every- America Online. So, on Thursday, they get into the dorm. To my ing a long anticipated vict()ry by pressure .of certain time frames, body should be more relaxed and when I was reading the headlines, knowledge, they don't have keys, the AFC'srepresentati\.le the Bron- · but RUSHING seems to be the try to be more understanding of lcame across a story that involved so how in the heck do they keep ' cos and a long awaitedSuper Bowl way to do it. Don't think that I am what our needs are, as well as un- my roommate (or s<J I thought). getting in? title for DenverQB Jdan Elway. I knocking the whole process; I derstanding of the goals of RUSH. The story happened in Chicago. And how many food menus do pick the Broncos by :a field goal, would not do that in a newspaper. Many of my friends have com- A man, who shares the same name I need? How much food can I 17 to 14. I am just amused and a bit dis- me.nted that they feel like cattle as my roommate, volunteered to possibly order? And how much l would like to endthis week's gusted at the whole means of bei.ng herded though the houses be castrated. I thought, why would food could I possibly eat? J. know artide.bytellingyou,l1ly<i~dicated RUSH. Tlie men on campus seem andpassed from one sister to the a man volunteer t() be castrated? that I like food and that I may have readers, that I had a ver!Yilu mbling to have iteasy, even though their nex:t so that they can look us over Well, the man is a CQnvicted child a minor weightproblem, but that weekend. My ego is :still rec:over'- pledging involves a I ittle more and flatter us with small talk. It sex offender and he is doing this does not mean that.[ will oe order- ing from being some1'1 bat ~mbar- than most. seems so awful when you look at to try to negotiate .a lighter prison ing food ten times a day from ten rassed in the track me~et this past I wish we could just head to it that way, but how else are they sentence. I had to laugh because different places. I did a little bit weekend at Hamilto11. ,] can only whichever fraternity we wanted going to meet you? This seemed this man did sharethe same name of math, and I now .figure that I learn from this eye-op~njngex:pe- and eat pizza and wings and play to be the best way for us to get to with my roommate; or else I prob- have enough menus to wallpaper rience; but.in my expertop:in ion, I pong or pool to get to know the know them and their houses and ably would not even .have men- my entire half of the room. So, am still the man. brothers. for them to get -,----------~---~------~-------~-'-'-----------~----~ Doesn't that r===============l to know us. SllaiiJIIJt/ ~--~---------- by Heath Fradkoff Contributing- Writer He gave me his name, a· first name, but 1 never llsed it. I just called him ''Sir.\ H~ was the type of person who commanded respect without saying a word. Even in .his plain appearance, I cot,~_ld tell he knew many things I didn't. He was a shoe- shiner in San Diego. I spent some time out there over brealc working an intern- ship at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Downtown. On my way to the li- brary to research~ I would pass him sit- ting at his makeshift station on the comer. All I knew was that he was there every- day, religiously. On the occasion of this picture, I stopped to find out more. The first thing I noticed about him was the roughness of his hand when he shook mi·ne; the hands of a man who has worked hard all his life. The measly calluses I have were nothing in compari· son. It turned out he was a retired Merchant Mariner wllo had spent 30 some-odd yean working aboard ships and sailing all over the world. He was in San Diego because that was wllere the last ship he'd worked on llad stopped. Now, he shines shoes just to pass the time. You know how yo:o meet some people, and you feel for them a cer~ tain reverence you can't quite ex- plain? That's what it wa~li:k.~>With this gentleman. It was almost as if I could see the full volume of his experience housed behind his calm eyes; and I felt a certain awe. You have to respect an individual who has lived his life so freely. We, here in the collegiate world; are very wrapped up in systems and processes; go to class to get the grades to get the numbers to get the job to get the money to get the Land Cruiser, the house, the picket fence, etc. This man r could only refer to as \Sir however, just hopped a ship. Just whose life is more viable? I would even venture a guess and say that he has learned more in his life than most of us cart even as- . pire to understand. I feel that a good amount of what we do here serves little mor~tMn to keep us in line with the step-lbw·:step- pro- cess design~d to leaclus to \'suc- cess.\ The world oftheco liege stu- dent is not the real vvorld_ Then again, the world of Otu r llpper- middle-class ~arents i!in 't either; anymore. i Keep in mind, folks:,li:h .. at we are the first generation exJJec:tedto do . worse tlla11 our par- ents. We: are ex- pected to live at home lo0pger and hold lo\'\ier-inc:ome jobs. Wre are on the brink of ente:riug a world -..v.:hcere the work that was done just 15 years ago by an offic~ siatff often ·is now dlo11e by one person \ll~ti1 a cell phone, fax, and · Pentium laptop. Business ;and com- . merce, i11 tlhe [>Ush to make th ing;;s JS~ faster and chea.per, has quite raJli dly been taking thehtJmanout of the piciture. 'This is what we harvet() look forward to ·- a fight against te-chruoi<Jgy to maintain o~r utility. He ju:st shined shoes. It I'V!IS ellollgh. He still nJa11age<l to have an effe(t on people. In tile brief time that I SJJoke with him peo]Jie WDU ld walk by and say hell01. :R.eg:ulars. People who stopped by e:vel')' day. It was enough. No frills. No Land Cruiser. Just appreciadOtn ancl re- spect. We should all go baclc !lndread our Thoreau. I fear we 111 ay really, really need it. Let me know what }lr;Jlf think. Box 641, e-mair: jradkofh@)ido/. Unf Of\' . .erfu seem like \I know the However, I f u n ? question the W o u I d n 't sisters don 't Want depth that you rather comes with all just sit and US to be that small chill with a talk. How are couple of uncomfortable theysupposed beers and d h al' to get a decent watch Mon- an . t ey go OUt OJ idea about day night their Wa11 tO make who I am football with ~ when they are the guys? I US Jaugh and fee/ asking me know · about where I would. good and have a live, what my I really am d . , major is, and e nj o yin g . goo ttme... how I like meeting all U n i o n ? the women Couldn't they on campus who are in the sororities. I had never been in their houses before, and it is really interesting to see how they live, while we tour their houses and watch slide shows of some the best times in their lives. It looks like a lot of fun! But why RUSH it? Why should we have to run in and out of each house for 30 minutes at a time when we could just go up one night and hang out with the sis- ters in a relaxed environment. Everything seems planned-out and rigid. We have to wait in the cold and have attendance taken, while the sisters get the house ready for us. I don't mirtd waiting in the cold, but there really is no need--especially the attendance taking. The rules seem so strict, and that almost takes away from the enjoyment value. We have to go to every house in a certain pe- riod oftime. Even if we don't like it, we have to deal with it. Some of my friends have dropped out because they couldn't deal with how strict everybody was. I understand how hard the Panhellenic Council has worked to try to make this process fun and enjoyable for us, but many of us have lives aside from RUSHING, and papers, tests, and sicknesses sometimes get in the way. What happens to those women who ask how I feel about world hunger or racism? Cou 1dn 't they ask what have I done for the community and what issues I have to deal with in my daily I ife?· I k:now this s.eems so negative, but it is true. I do admit to feeling quite awkward upon entering the houses and having all the sisters singing and staring at me. I feel like every eye is on me, and it makes me feel uncomfortable. I k.now the sisters don't want us to be uncomfortable and that they go out of their way to make us laugh and feel good and have a good time, and for the most part, it works. We have a good time meeting these women whose faces we have seen around campus, and we finally get to talk to them and learn about them. I am glad I decided to RUSH, and while it's not over yet and has bareEy begun, I am learning about the houses and trying to shove aside all the stereotypes that have hung like a veil over my eyes since the start of school. I am keeping my mind open and fr';ing to form my own opinion and while doing what l think will be right for me. As for now I will just have to get used to standing in the cold and RUSHING from house to house in a desperate attempt to meet as many people as I possibly can.

l 1 I II !l I ' Features Jon Tapper's Not-So-Mild Commentary on Current Events by Jon Tapper Conttibuting Writer What a week. So many interest- ing things have happened this week. I do!il 't even know where to begin. Maybe I'll start with a story that really hit home with me. A case of mistaken identirty, ifyou will (not reaHy, but only in my own mind.) I have a habit of reading about current stories in the U.S. and world news when I go onto AmericaOnl;ine. So, on Thursday, wheN. I was reading the headlines, I came across a story that involved my roommate (or so I thought). The story happened in Chicago. A man, who shares the same name as my roommate, volunteered to be castrated. I thought, why would a man vo hmteer to be castrated? Well, the man is a convicted child sex offender and he is doing this to try to negotiate a lighter prison sentence. I had to laugh because this man did share the same name with my roommate; or else I prob- ably would not even have men- tioned this story. As I am sitting at my computer typing my article, yet another fast food menu got shoved under my door. Which brings me to my next question, how in the world do these guys keep getting into the dorms? Seriously, I don't under- stand how they can keep doing it. To my knowledge, in order to get up to my room, you have to get through two locked doors. The key word in that sentence was \locked.\ Yet every single time, they get into the dorm. To my knowledge, they don't have keys, so how in the heck do they keep getting in? And how many food menus do I need? How much food can I possibly order? And how much food could I possibly eat? I know that I like food and that I may have a minor weight problem, but that does not mean that I will be order- ing food ten times a day from ten different places. I did a little bit of math, and I now figure that I have enough menus to wallpaper my entire half of the room. So, enough with the menus alreac:ly. I have found Rush to be a11 in- teresting time ofyear on this cam- pus. I can only compare it to be- ing approached by 20 different used car salesmeN trying to get you to purchase a car from them. It is interesting to sit back and .hear everyoJile' s \sales pitch\ if you will. The Superbowl is this weekend. The Denver Broncos will be tak- ing on the defending champion Green Bay Packers. I am predict- ing a long anticipated victory by the AFC' s representative the B ron- cos and a long awaited Super Bowl title for DenverQB JoJ;Jn ElwCiy. I pick the Broncos by a field goal, 17 to 14. I would like to end this week's article by telliNg you, my dedicated readers, that I had a very humbling weekend. My ego is still reco-ver- ing from being somewhat emlJar- rassed in the track meet this vast weekend at Hamilton. I can only learn from this eye-opening expe- rience; but in my expert opinion, I am still the man. Wqe <t!mu.orhltn110is ·January 22, 1998 • Page 17 RUSH-ing Around the Clock by Reuel Daniels Staff Writer RUSH. One word could not de- scribe this process better. We seem to be RUSHED into one house, RUSHED from one sister to the next, and then RUSHED out to the next house, and thell the process starts all over again. I know it is a hard thing to do to try to meet everybody under the pressure of certain time frames, but RUSHING seems to be the way to do it. Don't think that I am knocking the whole process; I would not do that in a newspaper. I am just an1used and a bit dis- gusted at the whole means of RUSH. The men Ol'l campus seem to have it easy, even though their pledging involves a little more than most. I wish we could just head to whichever fraternity we wanted and eat pizza and wings and play pong or pool to get to know the brothers. were too tired to go one night? Do they get penalized? That should not happen. As an athlete, I have a commit- ment to my sport, and that in\ olves weekend races, which take us away from RGSH. The Panhellenic Council has W{)rked to help us RUSH around our con- flicts, and hopefully we will not miss any opportunities. It just seems that if you don't show up, you are finished. I say that every- body should be more relaxed and try to be more understanding of what our needs are, as well as un- derstanding of the goals ofRUSH. Many of my friends have com- mented that they feel like cattle being herded though the houses and passed from one sister to the next so that they can look us over and flatter us with small talk. It seems so awful when you look at it that way, but how else are they going to meet you? This seemed to be the best way for us to get to know them and their houses and ------------------------------------------------------------------------------_J Doesn't that for them to get to know us. Snap/JIJI/ ------------------------- by Heath Fradkoff Contributing Writer He gave me his name, a first name, but I never used it. I just called him \Sir.\ He was the type of person who commanded respect without saying a word. Even in his plain appearance, I could tell he knew many things I didn't. He was a shoe- shiner in San Diego. I spent some time out there over break working an intern- ship at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Downtown. On my way to the li- brary to research, I would pass him sit- ting at his makeshift station on the corner. A II I knew was that he was there every- day, religiously. On the occasion of this picture, I stopped to find out more. The first thing I noticed about him was the roughness of his hand when he shook mine; the hands of a man who has worked hard all his life. The measly calluses I have were nothing in compari- son. It turned out he was a retired Merchant Mariner who had spent 30 some-odd years working aboard ships and sailing all over the world. He was in San Diego because that was where the last ship he'd worked on had stopped. Now, he shines shoes just to pass the time. You know how you meet some people, and you feel for them a cer- tain reverence you can't quite ex- plain? That's what it was Hke with this gentleman. It was almost as if I could see the full volume of his experience housed behind his calm eyes; and I felt a certain awe. You have to respect an individual who has lived his life so freely. We, here in the collegiate world, are very wrapped up in systems and processes; go to class to get the grades to get the numbers to get the job to get the money to get the Land Cruiser, the house, the picket fence, etc. This man I could only refer to as \Sir however, just hopped a ship. Just whose life is more viable? I would even venture a guess and say that he has learned more in his life than most of us can even as- pire to understand. I feel that a good amount of what we do here serves little more than to keep us in line with the step-by-step pro- cess designed to lead us to \suc- cess.\ The world of the college stu- dent is not the real world. Tllen again, the world of our upper- middle-class parents isn't either, anymore. Keep in mind, folks, that we are the first generation expected to do worse than our par- ents. We are ex- pected to I ive at home longer and hold lower-income jobs. We are on the brink of entering a world where the work that was done just 15 years ago by an office staff of ten is now done by one person with a cell phone, fax, and Pentium laptop. Business and com- merce, in the push to make things go faster and cheaper, has quite rapidly been taking the human out of the picture. This is what we have to l()ok forward to -- a fight against technology to maintain our utility. He just shined shoes. It was enougl1. He still managed to have an effect ()n people. In the brief time that I spoke with him people wot1ld walk by and say hello. Regulars. People wJ;Jo stopped by every day. It was enough. No frills. No La11d Cruiser. Just appreciation andre- spect. We should all go back and read our Thoreau. I fear we may real!y, really need it. Let me know what you thinfc. Box 641, e-mail: fradkojh(a?idol. union. edu seem like f u n ? Wouldn't you rather just sit and chill with a couple of beers and watch Mon- day night football with the guys? I know would. \I know the However, I question the depth that comes with all that small talk. How are they supposed to get a decent idea about who l am when they are asking me about where I live, what my major is, and how l like Union? sisters don 't want us to he uncomfortable and they go out of their way to make us laugh and feel good and have a I really am enjoying meeting all the women d . \ goo time ... on campus who are in tile sororities. I had never been in tl1eir houses before, and it is really interesting to see how they live, while we tour their houses and watch slide shows of some the best times in their lives. It looks like a Jot of fun! But why RUSH it? Why should we have to run in and out of each house for 30 minutes at a time when we could just go up one night and hang out with the sis- ters in a relaxed environment. Everything seems planned-out and rigid. We have to wait in the cold and have attendance taken, while the sisters get the house ready for us. I don't mind waiting in the cold, but there really is no need--especially the attendance taking. The rules seem so strict, and that almost takes away from the enjoyment value. We have to go to every house in a certain pe- riod oftime. Even ifwe don't like it, we have to deal with it. Some of my friends have dropped out because they couldn't deal with how strict everybody was. I understand how hard the Panhellenic Council has worked to try to make this process fun and enjoyable for us, but many of us have lives aside from RUSHING, and papers, tests, and sicknesses sometimes get in the way. What happens to tl1ose women who Couldn't they ask how I feel about world hunger or racism? Couldn't they ask what have I done for the community and what issues I have to deal with ill my daily life'? I know this seems so negative, but it is true. I do admit to feeling quite awkward upon entering the houses and having all the sisters singing and staring at me. I feel like every eye is on me, and it makes me feel uncomfortable. I kno\\> tht.: sistt.:rs don't want us to be uncomfortable and that the) go out of their way to make us laugh and feel good and have a good time, and for the most part, it works. We have a good time meeting these women whose faces we have seen around campus, and we finally get to talk to them and learn about them. I am glad I decided to RUSH, and while it's not over yet and has barely begun, I am learning about the houses and trying to shove aside all the stereotypes that have hung likea veil overmyeyessince the start of school. I am keeping my mind open and trying to fmm my own opinioll and while doing what I think will be right for me. As for now I will just have to get used to standing in the cold and RUSHING from house to house in a desperate attempt to meet as many people as I possibly can.

A After being camped ()llt at the movie theaters all winter brea.k, we are back for another term ofnn()vie reviews. Up on deck for the Screening Room this term is half dressed British pop s,illgers, Batman goes sour, and more tips on sneaking food and drinl<s into the theater. But first, we VIi II re- view several of the moviesthat we saw .over the winter. 007: Tomorrow NeverDi.es In a time when the media can ruin political- leaders and topple go\em- ments, he who controls the 11ews controls the world. Wheen the power-hungry and slightly eccen- tric head ofthe world's large:st mul- timed·iaoorporation sinks a Ilritish naval vessel in Chinese vvaters, James Bond is called in to irJvesti- gate the incident before it escalates into full-scale war. As always, Britain's top secret agent ulllcov- ers more than he bargainedfo;;:and inevitably ends up having t{) save the world. Pierce Brosnan returns fo.- llis second bout as 007 and does an excellent job. We feel Brosnan is perhaps the best James Bo11dsince Sean Connery. Theproblem i~tllat the whole James Bond frm::hise has become quite repetitive and somewhat mu.ndane. Whe:reas several years ago audiencesV~~ere enthralled with the idea of1l~ad­ man whose fantastic scheme for world domination could only be stopped by the extraordinary James Bond, today this theme has be- come commonplace. It seems that any plot will do, as long as it fits the standard mold for a James Bond film: 1 eccentric madrnan, 1 super spy, several new toys, beau- tiful girls ... an ounce of action and shake -don't stir. Aftertheill()Vie it sounded as ifhalfthe peoplevvere saying \Well he's certaihly no Sean Connery,\ and the other halfvvere saying \I've seen better action movies.\ I think that withollt he- ing part of the 007 franchise, tit is movie would not have fared so ~ell at the box office. Rating: Rent It Jackie Brown What do a flight attendant, an illegal gun dealer, an ex-convict, a bail bondsman, acrodkedcop,and a surfer girl have ill common? About half a million de liars. Bring- ing gun money into tlte U.S. from Mexico turns deadly wllen it's ev- ery person for tit em se.Jves. Tarantino weaves a twisted tale of lies and deceit about how greed and desire can bring out the best in anyone. With an all-star cast and directed by the illustrious Quentin Tarantino, Jackie Brovvn seemed destined for success. Jackie Brown is a flight attendant who runs money for her gun dealing boss piayed by Samuel~· Jackson. Un- fortunately she is caught at the air- port by Michael Keat011 who plays a crooked cop. What ensues is a race to bring the remaining money into the country ... with the only question being who gets ricf:J and who gets killed. Unfortunately for Jackie Brown, most of the audi- ence expected another Pulp Fic- tion or Reservoir Dogs and did not get either. While the film may be as good stylistically, it lacks much of the witty and often sadistic hu- mor and violence that seemed to attract many viewers to Pulp Fic- tion. Compared to what we had expected, Jackie Brown moved extremely slow and seemed rather drawn out. So if you are looking for another Pulp Fictron, Jackie Brown is not the film for you. WINTER BREA.K FILMS I.N REVIEW Rating: Rentlt · Amistltd A violent mutiny at sea resu-lts in the ship Amistad falling into the hands of the very s1aves that were hercargo. Withnonotionofnavi- gationor sailing, h<>wever, the dis- placedAfricans are tricked into sail- ing to America. As one of the most important trials in American his- tory unfolds, the yery notion of freedom is called <into question. In a country waveringor1 the brink of CivH War, the fate of several slaves could decide tile fate of a nation. Amistad is by far one ofthe best films we have seen this year. We were a little skeptical of Steven Spielberg after The Lost World de- bacle, but Amistad has redeemed our faith. In this tale ofthe human spirit and the figh1i for freedom, Spielberg has created a sweeping historical drama in the style of Schindler's List. Djimon Hounsou, an African native, delivers a stun- ning performa11ce as the ·desig- nated leader ofthe rellellious Afri~ cans. Morgan Freeman stars as the abolitionist fighting for their rights, who is soon joined by a young real estate attorney played by Matthew McConaughey. Defending these slaves proves an incredible chal- lenge, however, as thoe pro-slavery president Martin Van Buren is seeking re-election and desper- ately trying to avoid Civil War. As the trial escalates, former president John Quincy Adams (Anthony Hopkins) is called upon to repre- sent the Africans before the su- preme court. With excellent per- formances from the entire cast, Amistad is an extremely moving film. The serious issttes ofthe film humor which produceahighly en- tertaining experience. We recom- men:d this fi.lm to those who enjoy dramatic and enFichi11g movies. Rating: FuUPrice Titani(l \Are you ready to go back to Titanic?\ An unprecedented amount of movie goers answered \yes\ to this ·questiOil with its late rdease this past December. The grandest ship in history has been reborn tnrough the vision of direc- tor James Cameron. The film re~ valves around Jack Dawson {Leonanlo DiCaprio), an American vagabond whose good fortune wins him a ticket to America on the spectacular Titanic. His path brings him acrossthe wealthy Rose Bukater (Kate Winslet), who is suf- focating under her socia:l con- straints and oppressive fiancee. Together :they explore what has been lacking in their Lives and fall helplessly illn love·. Of c.ourse, things\ be~ome cornplkated when the ship strikes an iceberg .and plunges head long towards its di- sastrous fate .. Camemn chooses to focus on the struggles and he- roics that take plac.e \d-yr!ng~the fi- nal hours of the doomed Titanic. We were skeptical of Titanic prior to its release, fearful of an- other insanely expensive yet unfulfilling film(i.e. Waterworld). NeecUess to say, the most expen- sive film in his~ory hasde-livered a more captivating perfonnance than we ever could have hoped for. Everything from the special effects to the quality of actin:g is superb. We wondered how a love story set on the Titanic could be drawn out for 3 and a half hours-, yet by the end of the film we wanted to see more. While thi~ film isa:s dramatic as Amistad, it is also a spectacle and a wondrous feast for the senses. This is the first film we have seen in quite a while where people have literally cried. Of all the movies we viewed til is season, Titanic is our favorite. We were a I ittle dism1:1yed by the surprise end- ing in which they repair the ship and make it to America, but other than that this film .is a must see! Yulman Theatre Hosts Strong \Sisters\ by Maura WiUbold StaffWriter This past weekend, Uni()n 's Yulman Theatre hosted its seccJI1d Proctor's Too performance of the school year, \We Are Your Sisters\ (The Audelco Award Winner for Excellence in African-Ame.ri<:an Theatre). The cast, comprised of four extremely talented and pas- sionate African-Americanvvo111en captivated the audience fro111 tile very sound of their voices u11til their final bow. The performance, based on the book \We Are Your Sisters: Black Women In the Nineteenth Cen- tury\ by Dorothy Sterling, pllil1- fully depicted the lives ofslave women with remarkable strength and believability. \We Are 'Your Sisters\ addressed many aspects of slavery, which are usually left in silence, voicing the issues of toil, degradation and despair. The per- formance spoke of the e11slavement of not only women, but ofblacks and of\the human spirit'\. Through song and dance, storytelling and tears. the four women portrayed the Jives of countless African-Americans. They spoke of disturbi11g issues: mothering their master's children, being sold, separating from their families, killing their babies in des- perate measures so as 110t to lose them to the slave trade, endless days in the fields, elaborate at- tempts of escape, stillbirths and marriages simply because <>f a master's command. The passion with which the sto- ries were told was truly astound- ing. The phys.ical movements ofthe actresses was fuHof spirit and sor- row, hope and despair~ The women did n()t simply tell the stories, they relived the lives of slave women. They captured the souls of their grandmothers and only through believiog and living the lives of their a11cestors were they able t<> create such a moving piece of art. As an audience, we believed. The women took us back to a wicked time in ournation'shistory, unfolding countless secrets and hidden passions, repeated defeat and ultimate victory. As we jour- neyed along the weary path of a slave, we truly grieved and occa- sionally rejoiced. \We Are Your Sisters\ is truly a tribute.to the com·- age and strength of African- Americans. The social issues embedded in \We Are Your Sisters'; are power- fully apparent. Perhaps tile most disturbing scene came at the end of the performance when the slaves were finally emancipated, only to be left homeless and pov- erty-stricken. It told ()f how elu- sive true emancipatio!J can be, when slavery ends oew issues arise. Where does one go? What does one do? Freedom does not just happen in a simple, concrete way. It is a bittersweet end, and a perplexing beginning. This play, Vias in fact just that. It was an end to the ignorance which faces so many people and a begilmi_ng of understanding. h te cc a! si< Ja ce n Cl He C< R2 ''oJ de M< sic lee rar per Th1 mt the I ligl I

Concordy A 8 1 I N 1 I R 1 A I .N •• ., ' - ' ~·· . . . . . . ' · . ..; .. ·., .-- .. •' ·- .. ,. ..... I I 1 Page 18 After being camped out at the movie theaters all winter break, we are back for another te!TII of movie reviews. Up on deck for the Screening Room this term is half dressed British pop singers, Batman goes sour, and more tips on sneaking food and drinks into the theater. But first, we \viii re- view several of the movies that we saw over the winter. 007: Tomorrow Never Dies In a time when the media can ruin political leaders and topple govern- ments. he who controls the news controls the world. When the power-hungry and slightly eccen- tric head of the world's largest mul- timedia corporation sinks a British naval vessel in Chinese waters. James Bond is called in to investi- gate the incident before it escalates into full-scale war. As always, Britain's top secret agent uncov- ers more than he bargained for and inevitably ends up having to save the world. Pierce Brosnan returns for his second bout as 007 and does an e:xcellentjob. We feel Brosnan is perhaps the best James Bond since Sean Connery. The problem is that the whole James Bond franchise has become quite repetitive and somewhat mundane. Whereas several years ago audiences were enthralled with the idea of a mad- man whose fantastic scheme for world domination could only be stopped by the extraordinary James Bond, today this theme has be- come commonplace. It seems that nny plot will do. as long as it fits the standard mold for a James Bond tilm: I eccentric madman, I s11per ~ry. '>t.:\ eralne\\ to~ s. beau- t 1ful girls .... tn ouncL' ofe~ctiPn anJ .... hal--e- don't -,tir :\fter the mm ie tl..,t>unJed a'> If half the people \\ere S.l~ lllg_ \\\elL he'-, certain!~ no Sean Connery:· anJ the other hall'\\ ere say mg ''I've seen better action movies.\ I think that without be- ing part of the 007 franchise, this movie would not have fared so well at the box office. Rating: Rent It Jackie Brown What do a night attendant, an illegal gun dealer, an ex-convict. a bail bondsman, a crooked cop, and a surfer girl have in common? About half am ill ion dollars. Bring- ing gun nwney into the U.S. from Mexico turns deadly when it's ev- ery person for themselves. Tarantino weaves a twisted tale of lies and deceit about how greed and desire can bring out the best in anyone. With an all-star cast and directed by the illustrious Quentin Tarantino. Jackie Brown seemed destined for success. Jackie Brown is a flight attendant who runs money for her gun dealing boss p-layed by Samuel~- Jackson. Un- fortunately she is caught at the air- port by Michael Keaton who plays a crooked cop. What ensues is a race to bring the remaining money into the country ... with the only question being who gets rich and who gets killed. Unfortunately for JuckiL' Brown. most of the audi- ence expected another Pulp Fie- lion or Rl'.ll'ITulf· /)ogs and did not get either. \\ hik the film may he as gooJ st~ listicall). it lacks much or the \\ Jtl~ anJ otkn sadistic hu- mor anJ -.ioknce that seemed to attract man) viewers to l'ulp Flc- l/011. Co111pared to \\hat we hat.! expected, .Juckie Bruwn moved extremely slow and seemed rather drawn out. So if you are looking for another Pulp Fiction, Jackie Brown is not the film for you. WINTER BREAK FILMS IN REVIEW Rating: Rent It Amistad A violent mutiny at sea results in the ship Amistad falling into the hands of the very slaves that were her cargo. With no notion of navi- gation or sailing, however, the dis- placed Africans are tricked into sail- ing to America. As one of the most important trials in American his- tory unfolds, the very notion of freedom is called into question. In a country wavering on the brink of Civil War, the fate of several slaves could decide the fate of a nation. Amistad is by far one ofthe best films we have seen this year. We were a little skeptical of Steven Spielberg after The Lost World de- bacle, but Amistud has redeemed our faith. In this tale of the human spirit and the fight for freedom, Spielberg has created a sweeping historical drama in the style of Schindler's List. Djimon Hounsou, an African native, delivers a stun- ning performance as the desig- nated leader of the rebellious Afri- cans. Morgan Freeman stars as the abolitionist fighting for their rights, who is soon joined by a young real estate attorney played by Matthew McConaughey. Defending these slaves proves an incredible chal- lenge, however. as the pro-slavery presitknt Martin Van Buren is see!-.ing re-election and desper- atd~ tr~ ing to avoid Civil War. As th-.·trlal L'sL·alates. former president Jnhn ()uincy AJams (Anthon: llupkin~l is called upon tnn:pre- s~:nt the Africans before the su- preme cout1. With excellent per- formances from the entire cast, Amistad is an extremely moving film. The serious issues of the film are interspersed with moments of humor which produce a highly en- tertainirng experience. We recom- mend this film to those who enjoy dramatic and enriching movies. Rating: Fu:ll Price Titanic \Are you ready to go back to Titanic?\ An unprecedented amount of movie goers answered \yes'' to this question with its late release this past December. The grandest ship in history has been reborn through the vision of direc- tor James Cameron. The film re- volves around Jack Dawson (Leonardo DiCaprio), an American vagabond whose good fortune wins him a ticket to America on the spectacular Titanic. His path brings him across the wealthy Rose Bukater (Kate Winslet), who is suf- focating under her social con- straints and oppressive fiancee. Together they explore what has been lacking in their lives and fall helplessly in love. Of course. things become complicated when the ship strikes an iceberg and plunges head long towards its di- sastrous fate. Cameron chooses to focus on the struggles and he- roics that take place during the fi- nal hours ofthe doomed Titanic. We were skeptical of Titanic prior to its release, fearful of an- other insanely expensive yet unfulfilling film (i.e. Waterworld). Needless to say, the most expen- sive film in history has delivered a more captivating performance than we ever could have hoped for. Everything from the special effects to the quality of acting is superb. We wondered how a love story set on the Titanic could be drawn out for 3 and a half hours, yet by the end of the film we wanted to see more. While this film is as dramatic as Amistad, it is also a spectacle and a wondrous feast for the senses. This is the first film \\e have seen in quite a while \\hen: people have literally criL'U. Of all the movies we v le\\ ed this sea'>llll. Ttranic is our t';norite. We \\ere a little disme~yed h: the surprise enu- ing in which they repair the ship and make it to America, but other than that this film is a must see! Rating: Full Price Yulrnan Theatre Hosts Strong \Sisters\ by Maura Wittbold Staff Writer This past weekend, Union's Yulman Theatre hosted its second Proctor's Too performance of the school year, \We Are Your Sisters\ (The Audelco Award Winner for Excellence in African-American Theatre). The cast, comprised of four extremely talented and pas- sionate African-American women captivated the audience from the very sound of their voices until their final bow. The performance, ba~ed on thi.! b(lok \\Ve .'\re Your Sisters Black Women In the Nineteenth Cen- tury\ by Dorothy Sterling. pain- full~ dcpicll'd the li\e~ of \ld\-: \\omen \\ tth remarkahlc: \lrength anu b-:lie•abilit). \We /\re Your Sisters\ addressed many aspects of slavery, which are usually left in silence, voicing the issues of toil, degradation and despair. The per- formance spoke ofthe enslavement of not only women, but of blacks and of \the human spirit\. Through song and dance, storytelling and tears, the four women portrayed the lives of countless African-Americans. They spoke of disturbing issues: mothering their master's children, being sold, separating from their families. kiUing their babies in des- perate measures so as not to lose them to the slave trade. endless days in the field-;, elaboratt.: at- tempts of escape. stillbirths and nt.trri,tgl·, ... imrl:; hecau'l' pf a n J.t\>t cr · ' c1 Jllllll and. I hl' pa~sion v.-ith ~Ahich the -.to- ries were told was truly astound- ing. The physical movements of the actresses was full of spirit and sor- row, hope and despair. The women did not simply tell the stories, they relived the lives of slave women. They captured the souls of their grandmothers and only through believing and living the lives of their ancestors were they able to create such a moving piece of art. As an audience, we believed. The women took us back to a wicked time in our nation's history, unfolding cuuntle:,s secrets <.ltld hidden pas~i ons. repeated Jefeat and ultimate victory. As we jour- neyed along the weary path of a ~la\t~. \\~Inti) gri~\l:J and ucca· sionall:- rejoiced. \We Are Your Si~ter.,·· i\ trul) a tribute to the cuur- age and strength of African- Americans. The social issues em bedded in \We Are Your Sisiers\ are power- fully apparent. Perhaps the most disturbing scene came at the end of the performance when the slaves were finally emancipated, only to be left homeless and pov- erty-stricken. It told of how elu- sive true emancipation can be, when slavery ends new issues arise. Where docs one go? What does one do? Freedom docs not just happen in a simple, concrete v.ay. It i~ a bittersweet end, and a perplexing beginning. This play, was in fact just that. It \\a~ an enJ to the ignorance which f~1ces so many people and a beginning of understanding. t< A '( ar rv M of br cj. re 0; sa hi: ten cor ap SIC Jan cer I ht Ch, lie ('o: RzL ··or; dd c Ma1 SIC I lect1 rary pert 'Tlli~ in A the 1 I : I ioh '=' L c

iCoffee House a Hit Again t.y GinaLaSorsa Staff Writer It'sthebeginning.ofanew term, and this :past Tuesday the Coffee House waspacked1 Originally, the Coffee House was to play host to Unio.n\s ()Wll Gamet Minstrelles. However, at the last minute the Minstrelles canceled due to an iH- .ness. Luckily eno:ugh, though, Frank Barbarino '98 agreed toper- form, Around 8:30PM, people began to shuffle Ln from the cold to enjoy some lwtheverages and good en· tertainmellt Barbarino started the night with .some ofhis guitar play- ing which was fo Howed by the acoustics of Seth Madison '0 l. Later in the night, Matt Aronowitz\ 00 and George Edwards '00 performed some well known and not so well known selections.r Marius Calin '00 accompanied Matt and George in their rendition ofBiink 182's\Dammit.\ Duringa break frorn the music, Marius de- cided to get up on the stage and read S{lme poetry he had written. Dave Martin' 0 I recited apoern and sa11g a few s()ngs ac<:ompanied by his guitcar. Just when everyone thought that the night was over, Aronowitz carne back on stage one last time to share some songs he had writ- · ten. Even though the performances wereputtogether at the lastminute, · the Coffee House proved to be a hit once again! Although the ' Minstrelles were too ill to perform, . this provided an opportunity for others to share their artistic talent · with the rest of the Union commu- . nity. I would personally like to . thank Frank Barbarino and all who ,performed for coming up to the ' Coffee House atsuch a late notice. The Coffee House would love to ltave you come and perform! The · Coffee House is. held on every rues<lay at 8:30PM. So come and share your artistic talents with us whether it be music, poetry, acting, ora,nything else. We also encourage everyone to come up to the Coffee House on Tuesdays for free coffee and en- tertainment. lf you're not going it> perform, you might as well es- <:apefrom the cold (and your work) and watch th()se who. do. If any- (Jne has any questions about the C()ffee House, please feel free to · cootactGinaor Kim atx58l3. Con- gratulations to everyone once again for a very successful night!! Pianist Anthony de Mare to Perfortn, Lecture Courtes:y ofTim Olsen Dept. ()fPelforniing Arts Pianist Anthony de Mare, an in- ternationally known interpreter of coirtetnp()rary music, will present a program of American piano mu- sic at Memorial Chapel on Sunday, January 25 at 8:00 PM. This con- cert is free and open to the public. The program will include works by Charles Ives, Meredith Monk, Henry Cowell, and Aaron Copeland, as well as Frederic Rzewski' s De Profimdis, a I 992 ''oratorio\ written especially for Mr. de Mare and texts byOscar Wilde. On Monday, January 26, Mr. de Mare wilf visit the American Mu- sic course where he wiJI present a lecturelperfonnance on contempo- rary music, focusing on the works performed tile previous evening. This tal<es placdrom I :30-2:35 PM in Arts 2 J 5 and is free and open to the public. De Mares carc.cr has been high- lighted by such h.onors as First Prizeand Audience Prize at the In- ternational Gaudeamus Interpret- ers Competition in the Nether- lands. Under the auspices of Y()ung Concert Artists, he made his New York debut at the 92\dStreet Y and his Washington debut at the Kennedy Center. He has per- formed throughout Europe and NorthAmericaatchamberde Mare (which features De Projundis ), was hailed by Keyboard magazine as \astonjshing.\ De Ptofzmdis is based upon ex- cerptsftom Oscar Wilde's finallet- tercfthe same title to Lord Alfi:ed Douglas, written during Wilde's imprisonment in Reading. This musical prose poem floats upon, is imbedded in, and emerges from a musical matrix which constantly s!Jifts in mood, passing from the seri()us to the ridiculous in unex- pected ways. The pianist not only plays tile keyboard, but is required to produce vocal sounds and per- fonn a variety of actions. The piece is as: much a dramatic work as it is a musical work. Sdt~~~s ··cos . ~~ •., LPs~.,_\liDEOS & CASS£1$S ;;r T ~ul:} SefilLndTr~tlde \: 1 ,{ . narQ. to · t~ es ~l c~ .. ........... .l.: ..... n ••• $7.91 ea. or ~15 TAe~s .................... $~r99 ea. or .5 Sel~ COs ......... ~ .. ·.~ '$3 ea. or ~ MUSiq VIDEOS ...... 2 1or $1 0 /'/ We Ev~nJlave Current Vinyl~¥~ LPs! . CUiton\11ollQtfl~~MII~(B.Dille 146) Cliftmn Park. tlY1!DB5 .; (518) 373-9089 ' ---- -~-.. ' Martin Luther King, Jr .. Day Celebrated by Kim Rohback A&E Editor At 4:00 PM on January 15th in the College Center Auditorium, students and faculty gathered to celebrate the observance of Mar- tin Luther King Jr. The theme of the celebration was \Come to- gether to make the dream a real~ ity!\ President Roger Hull gave the welcoming remarks. He regretfully announced his early departure that could not be avoided. He recited a portion of Dr. King's \To Serve\ speech. He than shared that his prior engagement was a meeting with the faculty to discuss the hir- ing ofmore \professors of color.\ Professor A.T. Millerhostedthe event. He announced the first act directftomthe Blue Heron Theater. Richarda Abrams, Gha'il Rhodes Benjamin, Sandra Mills Scott, and Stephanie Summerville performed the opening to their show, \We Are Your Sisters.\ \We Are Your Sisters\ played in the Yulman this weekend as a part ofthe Proctor's Too series. The shouted \My grandmot:h~ers were strong.\ The next performance 1\\'EIS a se- ries .of selected readings. \Nic:o1e Graham '98, Idris AbduJ..,~zo:izo: '00~ and Sheri Oliver '.00 read,fioooso.me ofDr. King's more famous~orks. They were followed by D!le ofthe stars ofthe afternoon. Charmaine Bran do, the odiirect~r of the Union College Gos.prel: En- semble performed an ernotiomal a.nd chilling song, \His Eyesarl!()tltlJe Sparrow.\ Brando's voice fiilledtlle auditorium, and was rewartle(tJ'\.Vith a standing ovation. Hemwatie Ramasami '~8, JJre- sented Dr. King's most fa111o11s \I Have a Dream\ speech in its en- tirety. As Ramasami spoke i11111ges of Dr. King were projected()n a11 overhead projector. The attd ie:nce was spellbound. Professor M.iller tile n .an- nounced George Tiggle '911 m<f Kimberly Mitchell from Educ:atiDnal Studies. They simg \Amuing Grace,\ and the entire audie11ceV1as invited to join in for the last yoerse. Doni Johnson '01 prese11ted an ()riginal poem. He joki11g:ly .an· 110unced he had \written it Last four women danced and sang a flight.\ The auditorium's larugllter song to the beat of a drum. They was quickly silenced by Joh11S011r s stood center stage and proudly powerful words. Charon O'Neal '00 was the next perfonner. She perfonned an origi- nal dance, \The Conqueror.\ O'Neal danced a powerful piece to gospel music. O'Neal was fol- lowed by more readings presented by Stephanie Masker '98, Carey Miller '98, and Angie Page, staff. The performance was followed by \A Letter to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.\ presented by Sonia Sanchez presented by the Blue Heron Theatre. A briefbiography was then presented by Khayree Miles '01. The women from \We Are Your Sisters\ returned to present an- other song, \Wade in the Water.\ The afternoon was closed by a beautiful performance by Rev. Eloise Frazier, Chair of the Human Rights Com miss ion of Schenectady County sang \Lift Every Voice and Sing.\ One of the most striking features of the presentation was the ques- tionnaire that was handed out to the audience as they entered the auditorium. The questionnaire asked how we as individuals planned to cel- ebrate the memory of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., perhapsthe great- est civil rights leader in American history.

Arts & Entertairunent Coffee House a Hit Again by Gina LaSorsa Staff Writer It's the beginning of a new tenn, and this past Tuesday the Coffee House was packed! Originally, the Coffee House was to play host to Union's own Garnet Minstrelles. However, at the last minute the Minstrelles canceled due to an ill- ness. Luckily enough, though, Frank Barbarino '98 agreed to per- fonn. Around 8:30PM, people began to shuffle in from the cold to enjoy sorne hot beverages and good en- tertainment. Barbarino started the night with some of his guitar play- ing which was followed by the acoustics ofSeth Madison '01. Later 111 the night, Matt Aronowitz '00 and George Edwards '00 performed some well known and not so well known selections .. Marius Calin '00 accompanied Matt and George in their rendition ofBiink I 82's \Dammit.\ During a break from the music, Marius de- cided to get up on the stage and read some poetry he had written. Dave Martin '0 I recited a poem and sang a few songs accompanied by his guitar. Just when everyone thought that the night was over, Aronowitz came back on stage one last time to share some songs he had writ- ten. Even though the performances were put together at the last minute, the Coffee House proved to be a hit once again! Althot1gh the Minstrelles were too ill to perfonn, this provided an opportunity for others to share their artistic talent with the rest of the Union commu- nity. I would personally like to thank Fra111k Barbarino and all who performed for coming up to the Coffee House at such a late notice. The Coffee House would love to have you come and perform! The Coffee Hot1se is held on every Tuesday at 8:30PM. So come and share your artistic talents with us whether it be music, poetry, acting, or anything else. We also encourage everyone to come up to the Coffee House on Tuesdays for free coffee and en- tertainment. If you're not going to perform, you might as welles- cape from the cold (and your work) and watch those who do. If any- one has any questions about the Coffee House, please feel free to contact Gina or Kim at x5813. Con- gratulations to everyone once again for a very successful night!! Pianist Anthony de Mare to Perfortn, Lecture Courtesy ofTim Olsen Dept. of Performing Arts Pianist Anthony de Mare. an in- ternationally known interpreter of contemporary music, will present a program of American piano mu- sic at Memorial Chapt:l on Sunday. January 25 at 8:00PM. This con- cert is ti·ee and open to the public. The program\\ ill include works b~ Chark:s 1\e-.. Meredith Monk, lh:nn C.'tmell. and Aaron Copel;md. a~ W•.:ll as Frederic Rze\\'sl-.i 's n .. · l'rojundt.\, a l9lJ2 ··oratorio\ written especially for Mr. de Mare <tnd texts b~ Oscar Wilde. On MDnLht~. January 26, Mr. de Mare\\ ill visit the American Mu- sic course where he will present a lecturelperfolTllance on contempo~ rary music, focusing on the \Vorks performed the previous evening. fltis takes plan: rrom I :30-2:J5 PM in Art~ 21 ~and i\ free and open to the public. Prize and Audience Prize at the In- ternational Gaudeamus Interpret- ers Competition in the Nether- lands. Under the auspices of Young Concert Artists, he made his Nev .. · York debut at the 92\d StreetY and his Washington debut at the Kennedy Center. He has per- funned throughout l:urope and No11h America at chamber dt· .\fare (which fi?atures Dl' Pro/zmdt.\). was hailed b~ t-:eyhnurd maga;inc a'> \astonish in~.\ /}e !'rofundt' i~ based upon L'\- cerph from (hear\\ ildl'\ final k:t- tl'r ufthe sallll' title to l.urJ Alfred Douglas. written during Wi Ide's imprisonment 111 Reading. This musical prosl.' poem lloats upon. is imbeddl.'d in, and emerges from a musical matrix. which constantly shifts in mood, passing fi·om the serious to the ridiculous in unex- pected ways. The pianist not only pla~s thl.' keyboard. but is n:quired to producl.' \ m:al ~ounds anJ pcr- fomt a variety of actions. The piece De \ hrc \ car~er ha~ b~cn high- is as much a Jram<.~til \\uri-. as it is a lighted b) such honors as First musical \\ork. EditYS CDs LPs, VIDEOS & CASS£'ITES Buy, Sell. Trade Hard to find titles COs ............ ~ ............ $7.99 ea. or 21$15 TAPES ............•..•.... $2,99 ea. or ~5 Sel~t COs 008 .......... $3 ea. or ~;: MUSIC VIDEOS ...... 2 for $10 i;;/ / 1 We Even. ... Have Current Vinyl ~~,s ... & LPs! Clifton '\6oll!ltry __ MaU-LflotJte 146) \.:.t • - \:ri\'{'~ Clifton Park, NV 12065 ·• (518) 373-9089 ijl;!Jt! ~xmt.orbien~is • January 22, 1998 • Page 19 Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Celebrated by Kim R.ohback A&E Etlitor At 4:00 PM on January JSd• in the College Center Auditorium, students and faclllty gathered to celebrate the observance of Mar- tin Luther King Jr. The theme of the celebration was \Come to- gether to make the dream a real- ity!\ President Roger Hull gave the welcomiAg remarks. He regretfully announced his early departure that could not be avoided. He recited a portion of Dr. King's 'To Serve\ speech. He than shared that his prior engagement was a meeting with the faculty to discuss the hir- ing of more \professors of color.\ Professor A .T. Miller hosted the event. He announced the first act direct from the Blue Heron Theater. Richarda Abrams, Gha'il Rhodes Benjamin, Sandra Mills Scott, and Stephanie Summerville performed the openingtotheirslww, \WeAre Your Sisters.\ \We Are Your Sisters\ played in the Yulman this weekend as a part of the Proctor's T()o series. The four women danced and sang a song to the beat oh drum. They stood center stage and proudly shouted \My grandmothers were strong.\ The next performance was a se- ries of selected readings. Nicole Graham '98, ldris Abdui-Aziz '00, and Sheri Oliver '00 read fi·om some ofDr. King's more famous works. They were followed by one ofthe stars of the afternoon. Charmaine Brando, the director of the Union College Gospel En- semble performed an emotional and chilling song, \His Eyes are on the Sparrow.\ Branda's voice filled the auditorium, and was rewarded with a standing ovation. Hemwatie Ramasami '98, pre- sented Dr. King's most famous '\I Have a Dream\ speech in its en- tirety. As Ramasami spoke images of Dr. King were projected on an overhead projector. The audience was spellbound. Professor Miller then an- nounced George Tiggle '98 and Kimberly Mitchell from Edt~cational Studies. They sang \Amazing Grace,\ and the entire audience was invited to join in for the last verse. Doni Johnson '0 I presented an original poem. He jokingly an- nounced he had \written it last night.\ The auditorium's laughter was quickly silenced by Johnson's powerful words. Charon O'Neal '00 was the next performer. She pertormed an origi- nal dance, 'The Conqueror.\ O'Neal danced a powerful piece to gospel music. O'Neal was fol- lowed by more readings presented by Stephanie Masker '98, Carey Miller '98, and Angie Page, staff. The performance was followed by \A Letter to Dr. Martin I. uther King, Jr.\ presented by Sonia Sanchez presented by the Blue Heron Theatre. A brief biography was then presented by Khayree Miles '0 I. The women finm \We Are Your Sisters\ returned to present an- other song, \Wade in the Water.\ The afternoon was closed by a beaut i fu I performance by Rev. Eloise Frazier, Chair of the Human Rights Commission of Schenectady County sang \Lift Every Voice and Sing.\ One ofthe most striking features ofthe presentation was the ques- tionnaire that was handed out to the audience as they entered the auditorium. The questionnaire asked how we as individuals planned to cel- ebrate the memory of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., perhaps the great- est civil rights leader in American history. ' I .1 ' ' , Photo by Ha'<ar 'h•rrill Piani.'it Anthony de A fare: To pre5r: nt a proxram ojAmr:rican piano music at 8. 00 pm otz .lanuar_1· ::5

Indoor ·.Track Basketball S . . wnnnnng Women's. Dutchmen End RPIJinx Energetic young club shcrwingeveryone that winter sports are alive and well by Frank Rossi Editor-in-Chief This week was a long time in coming for the Union College Shooting Dutchmen. After start- ing the season at a 2-4 record, the Dutchmen won four in a row and five of their last six games to move to 7-5 as ofTuesday. Not only are they over .500, but they did it by defeating local rivals RPI and Skidmore in exciting games. Last Tuesday, Union held on to a second half lead against RPI as sophomore Zena Woldeyesus scored 26 points. The 75-70 vic- torybrought the Dutchmen to4-4, broke the Union jinx in WRUC games against RPI for all sports (in- cluding football, hockey, and women's basketball), and it pre- pared the team for a fast-paced Skidmore team. Friday, the Dutchmen and Skidmore traded the lead 20 times and tied 15 times during the game. A supreme effort by junior Rob Groelz, who had 30 points and seven rebounds, kept the Dutch- men from trailing by a large margin in the second half. By the end of regulation, Skidmore clawed its way back to within two points with a minute to go, and a basket by T.J. Coleman brought the teams into overtime. Senior captain Rob TeCarr scored a three-point basket while getting fouled late in over- . time to ice Union's 78-74 victory. Dave MeguerdichianJ TC Rich Gilooly finished Jlu weekend with 15 points and six stitches. Freshman John Van Wolfmer con- the second half. Groelz scored 14 tributed 12 points and W()ldeyesus for the Dutchmen and sophomore scored 15. Andy Donohue had eight re- The next day, Union encou,n- bounds. The loss broke the tered an un der-pcrforming Dutchmen's 2-0 start in the UCAA. Hamilton team. The Continentals The week concluded with a \ery took an early lead against the nonchalant, non-·league game Dutchmen, and they never looked against the Utica Pioneers. Nei- back as they won 105-69. therteam could gain a great deal of Hamilton's Kevin Tho!Jle tied a momentum, butthe Dutchmen had Memorial Fieldhouse record with the size necessary to beat the Pia- ten three-point baskets, but he neers. Van Wormer scored a sea- could not break the record late in son-high 2 I points for the Dutch- men in the 79-61 victory. The Dutchmen's 3-1 week (2-lleague) · was their best week in a few sea- sons. The causes of the sudden surge seem to have their roots in team unity. Woldeyesussaid, \A bunch of us are coming together and un- derstanding what coach asks from us. There's a lot more team unity.\ The team's goals are high, ev.en though many fans did not foresee such a strong start. Sophomore Rich Gilooly stated;· \Our 1ong-terrn. and short-term goals are the same. We wantto win, andwedon'twant to be complacent. Werealistically believe we can play in the postseason.\ To do this, the Dutchmen must win ~gainst several strong UCAA opponents, including Clarkson and St. Lawrence. Sophomore Tyler Neer believes the team can do this. \We' 11 fare well inour league.\ Head Coach Robert Montana is proud ofhis team, but he still sees room for improvement. \You're al- ways happy to win four in a row. We still see some areas we can im- prove upon. It's a real nice posi- tive to the guys as they see their efforts lead to success on the court.\ The Dutchmen face two tough teams 'this week .as they travel to Hobart and Hamilton. On Tues- day night, they will play non- league Hartwick at horne, an annual rivalry. The men areplay at 8pm. Two Steps Forward, One Step Back by David Weiner Sports Writer Any young team will tell you that it's not a matter of winning and losing, but how much you learn in the process. This, seemingly, is the motto of the women's basketball team as they were unable to post a victory this week, but played some oftheir best, and worst, basketball of the season. In just a five day stretch, the Dutchwomen faced three solid league opponents in RPI, Skidmore, and Hamilton, all of whom possess winning records and numerous returning players. These facts, combined with Union's inexperience, left them looking for answers at week's end. Throughout the season, coach Burt has implemented a number of different strategies into her team. She has worked hard with her guards to improve their three-point shooting, she stands by the fast• break, ''move the ball up the court\ offense, and she believes in tight, stingy defense. As the days have roiJed by, her team has made con- tinual progress in grasping each concept she teaches and putting them to use in game situations. RP/67 - Union 57 Tuesday's match-up with RPI was another example of playing coach Burt's philosophy to near perfection as Union put forth pos~ sibly their best performance ofthe season. Knowing the Rensselear only ran two types of offense! coach Burt concocted a defensive \switch\ pattern that was run to · perfection by her team and sue- • cessfully confused RPI. By taking RPI out of their normal offensive rhythm, Union was able to cre- ate numero turnovers, and push the ball down the floor for easy' shots. However, while solid de- fensehelps the other team from scoring, · does not pu points on the scoreboard ........ ,...-- this is what plagued the Union team. In attempts at pushing the ball up the floor · quickly and capi- .. ~:·. ~ v talizing on their ~ \· fast break oppor- Sophom~te .Leah Oltveiri drives through the Skidmore defense. tunities, Union found them&elves muster the strength to pull out tfie shooting that afflicted them, post- making errant passes and p11tting Upset victory. , ing a dismal four for twenty-one up shots with no one in p()sition Skidmore 84 ... Union 67 for three point land. The lone for a rebound. This did not pose After suffering this dis\ppoirrt- bright spots were 01iveiri and Perry well for Union as they ma!le only ing loss, coach Burtwas a bit wor- who were able to muscle their way four of the fourteen three,-pelinters ried about the teams mental prepa- to nineteen and eight points, re- attempted, all of which carne in the ration for the contest against spectively. As the final buzzer first half, and had only minimal Skidmore~ Her concerns were cor· sounded, a sigh of relief was felt success working the bail inside to rect as the Union came out com- among the Union girls who knew Leah Oliveiri and Beth Peny on the plete ly flat, getting beat to the ball their coach was disappointed, but Jow post. by a quicker Skidmore team. also knew they had a chance to Coming into this game, the Unlike the contest with RPhvh() redeem t~emselves .against a Dutchwomenknewtheywerefac- ran a \team\, moti()n offense, beatableHamiltonteamthefollow- ing their toughest opponent ofthe Skidmore lived by the man to man, ing day. season as RPI was undefeated and one on one offense that completel:y Hamilton 88 - Union 82 ranked #22 in the nation. While dominated Union. Before the girls With their dismal performance their solid defense kept RPI from knew it, they were trailing by ten out oftheir minds and a new posi- scoring many points, the girls in and on their way to a seventeen tive outlook on their game,. the garnet and white were a bit 1()0 ten- point loss. Union girls were ready to face tative on the offense and could not Again, it was the team's poor continued on page 26 [ i1 F tl a tl rr rr f< c dl H th cc si w pi gc M tht he Kc ge ch ne Dt 19 ne1 fir: be~ sid I at• hUl wa on.

D. .··. ,YJ;J-~~•·'•••·/·\·~~.;.1°~ Dutchmen End RPI·· Jt·n. ·x· ~ ' . . . · ''- ..... · Energeticyoungclubshmvingeveryonethatwintersportsarealiveandwell Inside Indoor Track Basketball Swirmning Women's Hockey F.· t ,re. ,o:· \~ .. tfi6~~~ .,.~;.; .... ,.·~_;_,;,:·~\·~ '•,'•• '.:.·/·~··.·.}/7,J:,~:!f:i , .. . Paoe.:., 6r~,'\~. '~\r , .. · •,;\:: . . .:~ .• ~· : .. ··.·. :···,,; ~,,~;:j!.; .. · .. by Fra11k Rossi EditlJr-in-CII iej This week was a long time in coming for the Union Collrege Shooting Dutchmen. After start- ing the season at a 2-4 record, the Dutchmen won four in a row and five of their last six games to move to 7-5 as ofTuesday. Not only are they over .50(), but they did it by defeating local rivals RPI and Skidmore in c.xc iting games. Last Tuesday, Union held Ol'l to a second half lead against RPI as sophomore Zen a Woldeyesus scored 26 points. The 75-70 vic- tory brought the Dutchmen to4-4, broke the Union jinx in WRUC games against RPI for all sports {in- cluding footbalL hockey, and women's basketball), and it pre- pared the tean1 t(Jr a fast-paced Skidmore team. Friday, the Dutchmen a11d Skidmore traded the lead 20 times and tied 15 times during the game. A supreme effort by junior Rob Groelz, who had 3 0 points and seven rebounds, kept the Dutch- men from trailing by a large margin in the second half. By the end of regulation, Skidmore clawed its way back to within two points with a minute to go, and a basket by T.J. Coleman brought the teams into overtime. Senior captain Rob TeCarr scored a three-point basket while getting fouled late in over- time to ice Union's 78-74 victory. Dave :\Ieguerdichian I TC Riclt GilolJI)'}iltished the weekend with 15 points and six stitches. Freshman John Van Wormer con- tributed 12 points. and Woldeyesus scored I 5. The next day, Union encoun- tered an under-performing Hamilton team. Tlu Continentals took an early lea.d against the Dutchmen, and tl11ey never looked back as they vvon I 05-69. Hamilton's Kevi11 Thorpe tied a Memorial Fieldhornse record with ten three-point bctskets, but he could not break the record late in the second half. Groelz scored 14 for the Dutchmen and sophomore Andy Donohue had eight re- bounds. The loss broke the Dutchmen's 2-0 start in the UCAA. The week concluded with a very nonchalant, non-league game against the Utica Pioneers. Nei- ther team could gaiR a great deal of momentum, but the Dutchmen had the size necessary to beat the Pio- neers. Van Wormer scored a sea- son-high 21 points for the Dutch- men iR the 79-61 v ktory. The Dutchmen's 3-1 week (2-lleague) was their best week in a few sea- sons. The causes of the sudden surge seem to have their roots in team unity. Wo:ldeyesus said, \A bunch of us are coming together and un- derstanding what coach asks from us. There's a lot more team unity.\ The team's goals are high, even though many fans did not foresee such a strong start. Sophomore Rich Gilooly stated, \Our long-term and short-term goals are the same. We want to win, and we don'twant to be complacent. We realistically believe we can play in the postseason.\ To do this, the Dutchmen must win against several strong UCAA opponents, including Clarkson and St. Lawrence. Sophomore Tyler Neer believes the team can do this. \We' II fare well in our league.\ Head Coach Robert Montana is proud of his team, but he still sees room for improvement. \You're al- ways happy to win four in a row. We sti II see some areas we can im- prove upon. It's a real nice posi- tive to the guys as they see their efforts lead to success on the court.\ The Dutchmen face two tough teams this week as they travel to Hobart and Hamilton. On Tues- day night, they will play non- league Hartwick at home, an annual rivalry. The men are play at 8pm. Two Steps Forward, One Step Back by David Weiner Sports Writer Any young team will tell you that it's not a matter ofwinningand losing, but how much you learn in the process. This. seemingly. is the motto of the \\DJnen's basketball team as they were unable to post a 1. ictor: this \\cek. hut playeJ some oftheir hc'>t. and worst. basketball llf the ~ea~on. rn just a tlve da) stretch. the Dutch\.-\olllcn faced three solid league ()pponents in RPI. Skidmore. and llamilton,all of \'\·hom possess winning records and numerous returning players. These facts, combined with Union's inexperience, left them looking for answers at week's end. Throughout tile season, coach Burt has implemented a number of different strategies into her team. She has worked hard with her guards to improve their three-point shooting, she stands by the fast- break, \move the ball up the court\ offense, and she believes in tight, stingy defense. As the days have rolled by, her team bas made con- tinual progress in grasping each concept she teaches and putting them to use in game situations. RPI 67- Union 57 Tuesday's match-up with RPI was another example of playing coach Burt's philosophy to near perfection as Uni()n put forth pos- sibly their best performance of the season. Knowing the Rensselear only ran two types of offense, coach Burt concocted a defensive \switch\ pattern that was run to perfection by her team and suc- cessfully confused RPI. By taking RPI out of their normal offensive rhythm, Union was able to ere- ate numerous turnovers, and push the ball down the floor for easy sl10ts. H o \\'ever, whik solid de- tense helps keep tilt.: other team from scoring, it does not put points on the scoreboard and this is what. plagued the Union team. In attempts at pushing the hall up the floor quickly and capi- talizing 011 their fast break oppor- S~Jrlromore Leah 0/iveiri drives through the Skidmore defense. Cory Silken I TC tunities, Union foulld themselves muster the strength to pull out the shooting that afflicted them, post- making e!Tant passes and putting upset victory. i11g a dismal four for twenty-one up shots with no o11e in position Skidmore 84 - Union 67 for three point land. The lone for a rebound. Thi:s <lid not pose After suffering this disappoint- bright spots were Oliveiri and Perry well for Union as tluy made only ing loss, coach Burt was a bit wor- who were able to muscle their way four ofthe fourteenth ree-pointers ried about the teams mental prepa- to nineteen and eight points, re- attempted,allofwhi<:bcarnein the ration for the contest against spectively. As the final buzzer first half, and had ()nly minimal Skidmore. Her concerns were cor- sounded, a sigh of relief was felt success W()rking the-l>all inside to rect as the Union came out com- among the Union girls who knew Leah Oliveiri and Beth Peny on the pletely flat, getting beat to the ball their coach was disappointed, but low post. by a quicker Skidmore team. also knew they had a chance to Coming into tbiis game, the Unlikethecontestwith RPiwho redeem themselves against a Dutchwomen knewtbey were fac- ran a \team\, motion offense, beatable Hamilton team the follow- ing their toughest oppCJnent of the Skidmore lived by the man to man, ing day. season as R.PI was undefeated and one on one offense that completely Hamilton 88- Union 82 ranked #22 in the nation. While dominated Union. Before the girls With their dismal performance their solid defense k~pt RPI from knew it, they were trailing by ten out of their minds and a new posi- scoring many points, the girls in and on their way to a seventeen tive outlook on their game, the garnet and white were [I bit too ten- point loss. Union girls were ready to face tative on the offense alld could not Again, it was the team's poor continued on page 26 t c \ \' g ~ t) 11 J<: g c ll c I' n~ fr bt si Ia ba w ()f

The gue) sea- 1rge earn 1nch un- rom ty.\ v.en $ee 1ore erm. rne. rant illy the ust \A tnd 'ler 1is. lis ~es al- w. n- si- eir he gh to :s- n- a! I '· Skating Dutchwomen Falter Swim Team's by Brian Terlinsky SpoTts Writer The Skating Dutchwomen en- countered some very intense hockey this past week, as they first hosted Colgate University at Achilles Rink,. and then traveled to Trinity and Sacred Heart Colleges for some serious weekend action. On Thur.sday, Union welcomed the Red Raiders of Colgate to cam- pus, as they sk:ate.d horne for the first time this term. With the ab- sence ef loud techno music and screaming fans that are usually common atthernen'shome games, the Dutchwornen took on a very confident Colgate team. Only about 45loyal fan came and cheered on the Union team, includ- ing a great fan of women's hockey, Dean Alford. Union, still a club level team, competed against a var- sity status Colgate team, who showed dominance in their size and speed. Since Cotgate is a varsity team and funds are given to the team by the school, they all skated with bright color;coordinating uni- forms and pads_ But this did not intimidate Union, as they came out with much intensity. In the first period, Union was outplayed by a very strong Colgate offense. Problems for Union began early with some sloppy play, especially trouble with clearing the puck out of their end at important times. The Red Raiders took advantage of loose pucks in Union:s zone, blasting ...:•. .. ./ ....,·.;... ... ~· !· .. _ ·~ 0. ., ' Corey Silken/ TC Like tile men, the women suffered a 7-2 defeat at home. many shots deep in the slot. Colgate came out forteful, taking an early2•0 lead. Union would eventually go into the second period,trailing2-0, be- fore Colgate struck again. At 12:13 of the period, Colgate's Charlotte Hennigar scored a sllort-handed goal, firing a loose pack passed Union junior goalie Lauren Locke, . . making the score 3-0. Colgate would rally once again at 15:03 of the period, as the puck snuck past Union's players and slid in the net, with traffic screening goalie Locke. With Union down 4-0, the team needed a breakthrough, which they would not get. The only spark for Union was late in the game when sophomore Orange Crush! Skating Dutchmen whipped, 7-2, byRPI by Jonatha11 Gasthalter Editor-in-Cilief The Union College Skating Dutchmen came into Saturday night's action against \Route 7 Rival'' the RPI E11gineers after two tough losses the past weekend against Brown and Harvard. In those games, the lack of a full sixty minute performance by the Dutch- men turned out to be the deciding factor, as both the Bears and the Crimson capitalized on Union let- downs to pull ahead in the score. However, against the Engineers, the Dutchmen seemed to lose their composure and focus, taking sixty-six ontwenty-two penalties which led to five Engineer power• play goals. The Dutchmen, after playing well at the start of the first period, got down 1-0, when RPI's Mal'k Murphy scored his sixth goal of the season on the power-play as he beat senior goa!tendet Trevor Koenig. Uni()n follght back and generated some strong scoring chances, outshooting the Engi- · neers for the period 8-5. The Dutchmen lo.st the momentum at 19:33 of the stanza when the Engi- neers Doug Shepilerd tallied his first of two goals on the evening; beating Koenig high to the glove- side, giving RPla 2·0 lead. \That late goal in the first period really hurt. We had the matchups we wanted, but we made it too easy on them,'' said Head Coach Stan Rick Lederer I TC Chulie Mo;cham heats RPI's Joel Laing for Union'sjlrst goal. Moore about his team\s first pe- sharp. Some nigllts, you have it, riod perfollllance. and others you don't,\ he said. The Dutchmen opened the sec- After making a couple of solid ond periQd with a bit of aggressive opening saves, Shtrom too became board ~otk. However~ jtin ior a victim ofRPI' s strong power-play defenseman Joel Bond t()ok a trip- as he was beaten by Matt Garver, ping penalty, sending tile Engi- giving the Engineers a 4-0 lead. neers on the power-play. Th:en, on Union generated a strong scoring the power-play, rt was Chris chance after junior Brent Aldous netti11g·his seconcl goal of Ozarowski and sophomore Jeff the season for the EngiJteers, as Sproat teamed up to: break the ag- Koenig gtive up his third goal on gressive Engineer four-man neutral eight shots. Union replaced zone trap. It was Sproat firing a Koenig withjuniorLeeor Shtrom pass over the blue-line to who stopped 1hirty•eight Earvard Ozarowski, who got a strong shot shots this past Saturday. Coach in on RPI goaltender Joel Laing. Moore felt that Koenig needed a Laing turned the puck aside and rest. '.'TrevorfKoenig] did notlook Continued Qnpage 25 Whitney Davis finally got Union one on the scoreboard, with a pass from Kristen Owad. They game would end, with Colgate winning 5·1. Colgate out-shot Union 32 to 20. •'011r offense played well and up to their potential, but we need to workon improving our defense to makeit:more strongerthan it has been. Also despite the loss, goalie Lauren Locke played awesome, making·great saves for the teams,\ junior forward Allison Powers said. On Friday Union bussed to Trin- ity Co-llege in Hartford, to take on another tough and experienced team. Both Union and Trinity played wen, showing some true competitiveness. Trinity was tbe first to connect, scoring the lone goal in th~ first period. In the sec- ond period, Union demonstrated their pride, scoring two goals and taking the lead. Scoring for Union were senim Lauren Felton, who was unassisted. Also registering for Union was freshman Melissa Johnson, with an assist from jufl,.. ior Sara Moss. In the third period, Trinity would score the tying goal, which would eventually lead to an overtime period. No one would score and the game ended in a 2-2 tie. On Saturday, Union skated against Sa()red Heart College, an- other aggressive varsity team. Sa- cred Heart commanded the game, winning by the score of 9-I. Union's ()nfy goal was unassisted and scored. by freshman Michelle Continued on 26 Rebound by Annette Grajrmy Sports Writer After suffering a setback last weekend at William:. College, the Unionl\rlen'sand Women's Varsity Swim teams compensated their losses with victories on both sides against Hartwick on January 18. Head Coach Judy Wolfe could not have been more pleased with the team's effort. \At this point in the season, while training at a peak level, to see them race so well is very encouraging,\ she said. Union's 400 medley relay. made up by Matthew Glogowski, Mark Anders<m, Michael Macomber, and Jeff Hoerle, helped to give Union a good start by finishing frrst with a time of3:39.10. Glogowski and Anderson also had first place finishes in the 200 backstroke and 200 breast stroke, with a time of 2:02.75, and 2: I 7.25, respectively. In the freestyle events, senior Mike Darbyshire secured first place finishes in both the 50 free, with a time of22:04, and the 100 free, with a time of48:47. Union's David Searles won the 200 free in I :48.65. In the 400 Free Relay, Nathaniel Martin, Clark Smyth, Searles, and Macomber also cap- tured first place, with a time of 3:21.38. Continued on 23 Flynn Triumphant in Track Opener DJJason Everett .Sports Writer The Union men's track team traveled t() Hamilton College in Clinton, New York this past Saturday f()rdual meet action. This was the team's first m~et of the season which culminates with the state championships here at Union in late February. Although the men competed gallantly, they fe.IJ shm1 in the team competition losing 94 to43. Leading 1lle way for the men with two victories was junior Peter Flynn. Flynn, whose last race in indoor track '(;aiDe two years ago at Hamilton in states, made Hamilton's 200m track his own by winning tbe 800m and JOOOm. Flynn also tllll on the 3200m relay which finished second. Flynn ran the 800Jn in deliberate fashion and cruised to victory with a ferocious finishing kick: in 2:00.3 7. · Senior Martin Knapp and · freshman Dennis Sanabia were also victorio11s. Knapp won the 500rn in 1:11.22 while Sanabia won the 200m in 24.28. Je1mel Royal placed third in the weight throw with a toss ofl 0.84m and third in the shot put as well witb a toss of 12.25m. Senior Mike Martin won the triple j11rnp in 13.00 meters. Sophomore Kenny Scott placed third in the 4()0m in 56 . .54. In the men's 55m, Sanabia and Chris Strohsahl went two-three in 6;87 and 7.52respecttid{y. Also placing in the running events was senior captain Jay Goldberg in the 1500 and 3000. Goldberg also ran the 500m and the 3200m relay. Goldberg ran a five second personal best in the 1500 fin ish ing second in 4: 14 and finished second in the 3000 in 9:42, two seconds behind Flynn. Coach Lany Cottrell commented afterwards that he was \'very pleased\ with some of the performances \ ... after only one week of training.\ Cottrell gave kudos to Sanabia, Goldberg, and Flynn and said that Knapp \proved himself worthy\ with his season opening performance. The women's track team also competed at Hamilton this past weekend for a dual meet. Despite the unprecedented number of female athletes this season, the women had difficulty filling several events which cost the team valuable points. This sh()rtage became apparent in the score with the wcmen lctsing 67 to 47. One of the standout athletes of the day was sophomore Carolyn Cieslowski. Cieslowski won the high jump clearing 1.3 7m and finisiled second in the shot put with a toss of9.14m. Also winning for the women was junior Autumn Renn in the long jump. Coach Larry Cottrell said Renn's performance was \outstanding\ witil this bei11g the season opener. Renn~ making her indoor track CcJDtinued on page 23

The ague) \sea- surge team ~unch dun- from lity.\ even resee TJore ·term am e. want cally the llUSt :AA .and 'yler this. 1a IS sees eal- ·ow. im- osi- heir the ugh I to tes- on- r.ual 11. t- e e y y Skating Dutchwomen Falter Team's by Brian Terlinsky Sports Writer The Skating Dutchwomen. en- countered some very intense hockey this past week, as they first hosted C(llgate University at AchHles Rink, and then traveled to Trinity and Sacred Peart Ce1leges for some serious weekend action. On Thursday, Union welcomed the Red Raiders of Colgate to cam- pus, as they skated home for fihe first time this term. With the ab- sence of loud techno music and screaming fans that are usually common at the men's home games, the Dutchwornen took on a very confident Colgate team. Only about 45loyal fan carne and cheered on the Union team, includ- ing a great fan ofwomen's hockey, Dean Alford. Union, still a club level team, competed against a var- sity status Colgate team, who showed dominance in their size and speed. Since Colgate is a varsity team and funds are given to the team by the school, they all slcated with bright color coordinating uni- forms and pads. But this did not intimidate Union, as they came out with much intensity. In the first period, Union was outplayed by a very str()ng Colgate offense. Problems for Union began early with some sloppy play, especially trouble with clearing the puck out of their end at important times. The Red Raiders took advantage of loose ptlcks in Union's zone, blasting ~· ' - Corey Silken I TC Like tile men, tire women suffered a 7-2 defeat at home. many shots deep in the siot. making the score 3-0. Colgate Colgate came out forceful, taking would rally once again at 15:03 of an early 2-0 lead. the period, as the puck snuck past Union would eventually go into Union's players and slid in the net, the second period, trailing 2-0, be- with traffic screening goalie Locke. fore Colgate struck again. At I 2:13 With Union down 4-0, the team of the period, Colgate's Charlotte needed a breakthrough, which they Hennigar scored a short-handed would not get. goal, firing a loose puck passed The only spark for Union was Unionjuniorgoalie Lauren Locke, late in the game when sophomore Orange Crush! Skating Dutchmen whipped, 7-2) byRPI by Jonathan Gasthalter Editor-ill-Chief The Union College Skating Dutchmen came into Saturday night's action against \Route 7 Rival\ the RPI Engineers after !VIo tough losses the past weekend against Brown and Harvard. In those games, the lack of a full sixty minute performance by the Dutch- men turned out to be the deciding factor, as both the Bears and the Crimson capitalized on Union let- downs to pull ahead in the score. However, against the Engineers, the Dutchmen seemed to lose their composure and focus, taking sixty-six on twenty-two penalties which led to five Engineer power- play goals. The Dutchmen, after playing well at the start ofthe first period, got down l-0, when RPI's Mark Murphy scored his sixth goal of the season on the power-play as lle beat senior goaltender Trevor Koenig. Union fought back a11d generated some strong scoring chances, outshooting the Engi- neers for the period 8-5. Tile Dutchmen lost the momentum at 19:33 of the stanza when the Engi· neers Doug Shepherd tallied his first of two goals on the evening, beating Koenig high to the glove- side, giving RPI a2-0 lead. \That late goal in the first period really hurt. We had the matchups we wanted, but we made it too easy ()n them,\ said Head Coach Stan Rick Lederer I TC Charlie Mup1am beats RPI's Joe/Laing for Vnion'sfirst goaL Moore about his team's first pe- riod performance. The Dutchmen opened the sec- ond period with a bitofaggvessive board work. However, junior defenseman Joel Bond took a trip- ping penalty, sending the Engi- neers on the power-play. Then, on the power-play, it was Chris Aldous netting his second goal of the season for the Engineers, as Koenig gave up his third goal on eight shots. Union replaced Koenig with junior Leeor Sh.trom who stopped thirty-eight Harvard shots this past Saturday. Coach Moore felt that Koenig needed a rest. \Trevor [Koenig] did not look sharp. Some nights, you have it, and others you don't,\ he said. After making a couple of solid opening saves, Shtrom too became a victim ofRPI' s strong power-play as he was beaten by Matt Garver, giving tile Engineers a 4-0 lead. Union generated a strong scoring chance after junior Brent Ozarowski and sophomore Jeff Sproat teamed up to break the ag- gressive Engineer four-man neutral zone trap. It was Sproat firing a pass over the blue-line to Ozarowski, who got a strong shot in on RPl goaltender Joel Laing. Laing turned the puck aside and Continued on page 25 Whitney Davis finally got Union ()ne on the scoreboard, with a pass from Kristen Owad. They game would end, with Colgate winning ' 5-1. Colgate out-shot Union 32 to 20. \'Our offense played well and up to their potential, but we need t<J work on improving our defense to make it more stronger than it has been. Also despite the loss, goalie Lauren Locke played awesome, making great saves for the teams,\ junior forward Allison Powers said. On Friday Union bussed to Trin- ity College in Hartford, to take on another tough and experienced team. Both Union and Trinity played well, showing some true competitiveness. Trinity was the first to connect, scoring the lone goal in the first period. In the sec- ond period, Union demonstrated their pride, scoring two goals and taking the lead. Scoring for Union were senior Lauren Felton, who was unassisted. Also registering for Union was freshman Melissa Johnson, with an assist from jun- ior Sara Moss. In the third period, 1'rinity would score the tying goal, Vlhich would eventually lead to an overtime period. No one would score and the game ended in a 2-2 tie. On Saturday, Union skated against Sacred Heart College, an- other aggressive varsity team. Sa- cred Heart commanded the game, winning by the score of 9-1. Union's only goal was unassisted and scored by freshman Michelle Continued on 26 Rebound by Annette Grajnny Sports r-f':riter After suffering a s<.'tback last weekend at Williamb College, the Union Men's and Women's Varsity Swim teams comp-ensated their losses with victorit;~ on both sides against Hartwick ()!D January 18. Head Coach Judy Vf olfe could not have been more plle-ased with the team's effort. \At 1t~is point in the season, while traiming at a peak level, to see them race so well is very encouraging,\ :she said. Union's 400 mecllley relay, made up by Matthew Glogowski, Mark Anderson, Michad Macomber, and Jeff Haerle, helped to give Union a good start boy finishing first with a time ofJ :39. 10. Glogowski and A11derson also J1ad first place finishes in the 200 b<1ckstroke and 200 breast stroke, VI ith a time of 2:02.75, and 2: I 7.25 ,rrespectively. In the freestyle llf\,lents, senior Mike Darbyshire s-ecured first place finishes in bo1i1 the 50 free, with a time of 22:04, and the I 00 free, with a time of4 8:47. Union's David Searles won th.e 200 free in 1:48.65. In the 40() Free Relay, Nathaniel Martin, CJark Smyth, Searles, and Macombler also cap- tured first place, with a time of 3:21.3&. Continu~d on 23 Flynn Triumphant in Track Opener by Jason Everett Sports Writer The Union men's track team traveled to Hamilton College in Clinton, New Y ark this past Saturday for dual meet action. This was the team's first meet of the season which culminates with the state championships here at Union in late February. Although the men C()m peted gallantly, they fell short in the team competition losing 94 to43. Leading the way for the men with two victories was junior Peter Flynn. Flynn, whose last race in indoor track came two years ago at Hamilton in states, made Hamilton's 200m track his own by winning the 800m and 3000m. Flynn also ran on the 3200m relay which finished second. Flynn ran the &OOm in deliberate fashion and cmised to victory with a ferocious finishing kick in 2:00.37. Senior Martin Knapp and freshman Dennis Sanabia were also victorious. Knapp won the SOOm in 1: ll .22 while Sanabia won the 2()0m in 24.28. Jemtel Royal placed third in the weight throw witll a toss of I 0 .84m and third in the shot put as well with a toss of l2.25m. Senior Mike Martin won the triple jump in 13.00 meters. Soph.ornore Kenny Scott placed third in the 400m in 56.54. In the men's 55m~ Sanabia and Chris Strohsahl went two-three in 6.87 and 7.52 respectfully. Also placing in the running events was senior captain Jay Goldberg in the 150() and 3000. Goldberg also ran the 5(;0m and the 3200m relay. Goldbe\rg ran a five second personal best in the 1500 finishing second in 4:14 and finished second in the 3()00 in 9:42, two seconds behind Fl\nn. Coach Larry Cottrell commented afterwards that he \Vas \'very pleased\ with so1111e of the performances \ ... after only one week of training.\ C otttrell gave kudos to Sanabia, Goldberg, and Flynn and said tint Knapp \proved himselfwortby\ with his season opening perfonmance. The women's trade i!eam also competed at Hamilt{)ln this past weekend for a dual meet. Despite the unprecedented r1umber of female athletes this se:!l.son, the women had difficulty fillung several events which cost the team valuable points. This shortage became apparent in the score with the women losing 6 7 t~ 47. One of the standout a.thletes of the day was sophomore Carolyn Cieslowski. Cieslowslki won the high jump clearing I.J7m and finished second in the shot put with a toss of9.14m. Alsco winning for the women was juni orr Autumn Renn in the long junlp>. Coach Larry Cottre II said Renn' s performance was \ou. t:.tanding\ with this being the seas:oJl opener. Renn, making her indoor track Continued .011 page 23

NOW OPE.N FOR L.UNCH . ·.· SPECIALTY PIES · · . ' . MEAT2ZA PIZZA FEAST® $9.57 MEC11UM $t 3.31 LARGE PEPPERONt HAit.t. BEEf. SAUSAGE AND EXTRA CHEESE. DELUXE PtZZA FUST® $'9.57 MEDIVII $13.~1 I.ARQE & FAVORITES: PEPPERONI, SAUSAGE, MUSHROOMS, GR£Etf P'tPPERS AND 01-UONS. WIGI PtZZA FEAS:I® $.9 .. 17 MEDIUM $13.31 I.ARCIIE LOADED WITB CHEESE. MUSHROOMS. GREEJII PEPPERS. OUVES ANO ONlONS. •PEPPIUlOHI PIZZA FE.AST® ;a .. ?e_MEDIUM $12.0$ LARGE PILED HIGH wtrH EXTRA PEPPERONI AND SMOTHERED IN,eJ<\.fRA CHEESE. 'EXTRAVAOANZZA~Ptz:z.A FEAST .10.37 MEDIUM $14.17 LARGE . 9 TOPPINGS FOR 'THE PRICE OF 5: PEPPERONI, HAM, SAUSAGiE, ONIONS, G!!.EEN PEPPERS, StACH OLIVES. MUSHROOMS, AND ~XTRA. CHEESECWEW). ALL PIZZAS INCLUDE OUR SPECIAl BLEND OF SAUCE ANi> I~ Ut\ MEDIUM 14\ LARGE t fS\ EX•L.ARG£ •tUCEI 1zsuces 12SLICES CUetSE $6.40 $8.27 $9.35 A.O:DITlOlllAL T(}.PPlNGS $.80 EA. $1.27 EA. $1.40EA_ 3 STY'L£1 OF CRUST TO CHOOIIE FftO.Ms HAND TOt:tiiD, THIN CRUST OR IDit:EP OIIH .. ft·~ ... OO EXTRA) O.fl TRY ONE OF OUR FLAVORED CR_,n •• r-----~-------------, 1 DINNER DEAL N0.1 1 I ENJOY A MEDIUM 2 TO-PPING PIZZA, I I AN ORDER OF TWISTY BREAD I I AND 2 CANS OF COKE FOR ONLY I I $9.95•TAX I I (DEEP DISH • $1.00 EXTRA) I Expires: 12131197 . I_ • ..Valida~ patticiipatino stores Gilly. Notv. alit! with any othero. 11n Cust~m11r p~ $lies I I . • tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited-to ansure sal~ clr~vinu. Our duver$ ~auy I . less t~n $20.{)0. Gas.b value 1!20¢. Our ori'11e1s are BOIIle:t~a3lt-e~ lor lat~ d~liv-eri-es. 1 . .. . @1~9f' Vomino·s Pizza, ltlc. 1 ... --------------·------ 1 DINNER DEAL NO.3 : I ENJOY 2 MEDIUM PIZZAS EACH WITH 1 1 2 TOPPINGS AND AN ORDER OF 1 1 NEW CHEESY BREAD FOR ONLY 1 I $15.98•TAX I I I I (DEEP DISH .. $1.00 EXTRA) I Exp~r•t: 12131197 I • Vah{l at f}3rlitipalino StiHes (lnfy. Nut vatld will! anyoltter oller. Cllstomer pa~S4tes 1 • tax wflue apphca~!e. Delivery .areas limHed to et~s.ure safe IJtiltir~g. Out drrvers carry · I less tha:n $20.00. Cash value 1 124.it. Our d1ivers are not ptrralized tor late deli'Veties. 1 . tell9S7 Domlnfl's Pizza. Inc_ ~------------------~ 1 DINNERDEALNO.S 1 : ENJOY 1 LARGE 2 TOPPING : 1 PIZZA FOR ONLY I : $8.99·tA< I I (DEEP DISH • $1.00 EXTflA) I Explru: 12131/97 I • VaM at ~articrpatmg stores ()Illy No I valid with·any other Gller CtJslomerpays sales I I • tax_ wn_ ere applicable. Oehvery .ar$aS limited IG eo-~01e sale d,iYing. Ovr dt1verscarry 1 lm lllan$2(LO() Cash value 1flDI. Our drrvers aren(lt penalized lot tate deli~teries. L (i.'H997 IDcmr110·s Pizza. In~ . . . .J ------------------- 718 STATE STREET SCH:ENECTADY Store Hours: -Mo~ ..... Thurs. 4:30 pm ~ l:OO am Fri.-Sat. 11:00 am~ 2:01l-ar:n Sun. 11:00 am- 1:00am 372·4441 PRODUC'l SATISFACTION GUARANTEE: IF YOlJ ARE NOT SAtiSFIED WITH YOUR DOMI~Q~s PIZZA ORDER, FOR ANY REASON, WE WILt REPLACE JT OR REFUND YOUR MONEY. PRICEI DO NOT ltiCLUDa APIIL.IClABLI IAI.EO TAX AND aoTTL• D.POS.TI. . · SIDE ORDERS . ·. DOMINOit U&l!M $TICK$ $.8.10 (ORDER OF 8} SEASONED BREADSTfCKS. liO'T!fltOM TH~ OVEN Wl1'H OUR SfASQNED TWtSTY SAUC£ Wlfil VOtJft CHOICE Of l»PPI!NGJSA.tJC£: TOMATO. PARMESAN PEPPERCOM, GARLIC 8Un£{l OR JALAPENO CHEESE. DOMINO•t CNSESYI!IREAD .3.04 {ORDER OF 8} BREADS TICKS WITH ZESTY AI'IP T!'WO lAYERS OF CHEESE. 0A8DI!N FRESH SALAD .1.4t CRISP L;ETTUCE. AND COOLVE<J(ll$ WITH YOtJR CHOICE OF T. MARlETT!® DRESSINGS: EUTTERMILK RANCH '\THOUSAND. ISLAND IUFFALO WtNQ$ llLUE CHEESE . HONEY FRENCH HOUSE ll'AUAN Lll':E ITAUA N 10 • $~ •. 10 20 ~ $'7. H 30 • .t.t1 40 • .t.2.06 to·•'~•·•• AVAILABLE IN: MILO, MWIU~ .• HDr. BARBEQUE. AND EXTRA HOT. , - AVAILABLE TOPPINGS PEPPERONI BLACKOUV£S <3REEN PEPPERS JAlAPENOS ONIONS SAUSAGE MUS.fiROOMS -BEEF HOT P£PP'£R R.tNGS PINEAPPLE <iRU~ OUII£5 ~CON BE\lERAGES . COKI!, IJIEI' e_,Kil ANI) t:•ltl'l\l' HAM CHEDDAR CHeESE BROCCOU orcm TOMATOES t 2 OUNCE CAoN. •;..e4• I•LJTEII 801'T&.! 4#.0$ r-------------------, 1 DINNER DEAL NO.2 1 · I ENJOY A LARGE 2 TOPPING PIZZA, I I NEW CHEESY ·BREAD AND A 2·LITER I I OF COK.E O:R SP·RITE FOR ONLY I I $13.96•YAX : I (DEEP IO~fl .. $1.00 EXTRA) I . Ext~~~t•: 12131197 I + V~hhtparticipatings11H!$!JIIIy. NolvaJidwiUH!nyother off~r., Customef pays sates I I ta~r; wh_ et. e~ppl~blt.t Oell_weryarf.ras limltfld.lo 1.!11$Nre; sale drtv1ng. Our 4nve{_s cany .1 le$S than $20.00. C';l:;;h wa~I.Jie 1/20t •. l)ur drivers an not penalized tor lale deliveries. 1 C1997 Vomino's.Piua; liic. . . . . • . ... --------·------------- I DINNER DEAL NO.4 I : ENJOY 2 LARGE PIZZAS EACH WITH : . 1 2 TOPPINGS AND AN ORDER OF 1 1 TWISTY BREAD FOFiONLY I I $18.97 +liAX I I I I (DEEP\IJISH .. $t.OO EXTRA) .• hplr••= 12131197 I + Vafld at participating slores-; olllr. Not valid with any l)fher oller. Customer pays salts 1 lax where appltcable:. EleliV<el~ area~ lim ilad 1o tl:I1S.ure sate dri~1na. Our dnvers carry I ltss lflan $20,00. Ca$h l'!!llue 1f20f, Our iirivefs ar~ Ml penaHztd to• fa1e deliveries. 1. et997 DominO'$ Pim, lnr::. ~------------------1 I DIN.NERDEALNO.& I I CARRY OUT SPECIAL I II BUY 1 PIZZA AT REGULAR PRICE II AND GET 1 OF EQUAL VALUE I I I FREE!!! I I (DEEP 0 l$tf - $1.00 EXTRA) I 1 E•JI'Ir\'•~ 12131/ST 1 + V.all:d a1 partie·. linQ s. !.11r~s o11ly. Not.va,id with any other oll~r.. Customer pay$ sales. .· · I lax \VIler bl~. Oehvel~ ar:ta$ hrmted 10 eMute safe duvwg. i)ur dnvers earty ·1 less. than$ .00. Cash: val~~e 1/20f. Our drivers are not penalized lor late <reliveties. · L e19n Domino·$. Pizza, ~nc:. . . I · ____________________ .. Don't Forget About Our Union College Student Specials!! Buy 2 Medium Hand tossed Pizzas With 1 Topping On Each For Only $9.99 + Tax OR Buy 1 Large Handtossed Plain Pizza For Only $6.99 +Tax Free Delivery!! Call (518) 372-4441 i t I f f a b I A 1

• Pt i ,. z :I ' ,. a NOW OPEN FOR LUNCH . ·.. . . . ·. ·. ·.SPE.CI.ALTYPIES . · . · · . '' ·. ' . ·- . . . . . . MEATZZA PIZZA FEAST® $9.57 IU!DIUM $U.31 LAMQIE PEPPERONI, HAM. BEEf. SAUSAGE AND EXTRA CHEESE DELUXE PIZZA FEAST® $9.57 MEDIUM $13.31 LARCE 5 fAVORITES. PEPPERONI. SAUSAGE, MUSHROOMS. GRHN PEPPERS AND ONIONS. VEOI PIZZA FEAST® $9.57 MEDfVM $13.31 LAROE LOADED WITH CHEESE. MUSHROOMS, GREEN PEPPERS. OLWES AND ONlONS. PEPPERONI PIZZA FEAST® $8.78 MIEDltJM $12.05 LAROE PILED HIGH WITH EXTRA PEPPERONI AND SMOTHERED IN EXTRA CHEESE. EX'I'RAVAOAN.UA® PIZZA FIEUT $10.37 MEI)JUM $U.IJ7 LARGE 9 TOPPINGS FOR THE PRICE OF 5: PEPPERONI, HAM, SAUSAGE. ONIONS, GREEN PEPPERS. BlACK OLIVES. MUSHROOMS, AND EkTRA CHE-ESE {WHEW). ALL PIZZAS INCLUDE OUR SPECIAl BLEND OF SAUCf AND 1 00% 8 CHEESE. 12\ MEDIUM f4\ lARGE US\\ EX•LARGE 8 SLICES U SLICES 12 SLICES CHEESE $6.40 $;8.27 $935 ADDITIONAL TOPPINGS $ 80 EA. $.1.27 EA. $1.40 EA 3 STYLES OF CRUST TO CHOOSE FROMt HAND TOIS!ED, THIIH CRUST 011 DEEP DISH • ($1.00 EXTRA) OR TRY ONE OF OUR FlAVORED !CRUSTS. r-------------------, 1 DINNER DEAL NO. 1 1 I ENJOY A MEDIUM 2 TOPPING PIZZA, I I AN ORDER OF TWISTY BREAD I I AND 2 CANS OF COKE FOR ONLY I I $9.95·TAX I I (DEEP DISH * $1.00 EXTFIA) I Expires: 12131197 I • --Valtd at part1c 1pa!ing s:totes only. Not valid witll any o~heroUe1. Cust<~mer pays S<Jies_ I I • lax where applicable Oelivery areas lim tied til ensura sale driv1ng. Our dtiVIlrS carry I less than $20.00. Cashvalue VZO¢ Our drivers are r.ot pei\Oiiled lot late deliveries 1- 01997 Domino's P1zta. Inc. 1 -------------------- : DINNER DEAL NO.3 : I ENJOY 2 MEDIUM PIZZAS EACH WITH I 1 2 TOPPINGS AND AN ORDER OF 1 1 NEW CHEESY BREAD FOR ONLY 1 : $15.98·m : I (DEEP DISH • $1.0(1 EXTRA) I Expires: 12/$1197 I • Valid at part•ctpalinO stores. only Not valid v11!h any ()!her offer Customer pays sales ·1 ta~t where applrcable Delivery areas hm1!ed to ensuresafedrrv1nq Our drJvers carry I less I han $20 0{) Cash vaJue l/20r: Our drwersare oolpenahzed lor late lJeliveries 1 <Cl1997 Oom1no's PiZZa. Inc · ~-~~~-~------------~ 1 DINNERDEALNO.S 1 : ENJOY 1 LARGE 2 TOPPING : 1 PIZZA FOR ONL V 1 : $8.99•TAX : I {DEEP DISH • $1.00 EX:TRA} I Explr~s: 12131f97 I • Vaildalparltc•patmgstoresonly Nolvahdwllr,anyolilelol1er Cuslomerpayssales. I I • !.lK wtte. re apphtallle Oehyery areas hm•ttd Ia ens1.1re ~ledm'ln!) Ourdt1verHarry 1 tess 1 nan $?0 00 CJsh value 11201 Our drtve rs ate not p er;.;l11ed lor IJ!e deliver•es L i.~H997 OomlnO·s P1ua. Inc .J ------------------- 718 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Store Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 4:30 pm ~ 1:00am Fri.·Sat. 11:00 am~ 2:00am Sun. 11:00 am· 1:00am 372·4441 PRODUCT SATISFACTION GUARANTEE: IF YOU ARE NOT SATISFIED WITH YOUR DOMlNO'S PtZZA ORDER, FOR ANY REASON, WE WILL REPLACE IT OR REFUND YOUR MONEY. PRIC&S DO NOT INCLUDE APJ»I.ICAIILE SALES TAX AND BOnLE DEPOSITS~ .·. . ' ' 'SID·E ORDERS ' , \ .·· .: ' ' ' ' . ' . ' DOMINO•s llflEAD STICKS $2.10 (ORDER OF 8} SEASONED BREADSTICKS, HOT fROM THf OVEN WITH OUR SEASONED TWISTY SAUCE WlTH YOUR CHOiCE Of DIPPING SAUCt: TOMATO. PARMESAN PEPPERCORN, GARLIC BUTTER OR JALAPENO CHEESE. DOMINO'S CHEESY8fU!AD $3.04 (ORDER OF 8) BREADST1CKS WITH ZESTY AND TWO LAYERS OF CHEESE. GARDEN FRESH SALAD 111.41 CRISP LETTUCE AND COOL VEGGIES WlTH YOUR CHOICE OF T. MARZETII® DRESSINGS BUTTERMILK RANCH THOUSAND ISLAND BUFFALO WINGS BLUE. CHEESE HONEY fRENCH HOUSE IT ALlAN LllE ITALIAN to. $3.70 20.$7.1 t ao. $D.&t 40 .. f1:t.oe AVAILABLE IN: MILD, ME.DIUM, HOT, BARBEQUE AND EXTRA HOT . . ·. -·_ -· .. AVAILABLE TOPPINGS · _ PEPPERONI BLACX OLIVES GRE£N PEPPERS JALAPENOS ONIONS SAllSAGE MUSHROOMS BEEF HOT PEPPER RINGS PINEAPPLE GREENOUVES BACON HAM CHEDDAR CHEESE BROCCOLI DICED TOMATOES · · ·:· . . BE.VERAGE.S . . . . ' ,· , ~ COKE. DIET COKIE AND SPRITII 12 OlfNCI! CANS $.68 2·LITEA BOTTLE $2.06 r-------------------, 1 DINNER DEAL NO.2 1 I ENJOY A LARGE 2 TOPPING PIZZA, I I NEW CHEESY BREAD AND A 2-LITER I I OF COKE OR SPRITE FOR ONLY I I $13.96·TAX : I (DEEP OtSH ~ $1.00 EXTRA) I Expires: 12131197 I • Vaiid at participaHng stores only Not valid w_Hh any nlher offer Customer pays salfJS I I • tax wheJe applicable. 0-thvety areas fimited to ensure safe driving. Our dnvers carry I less thara $20.00. Cash value 1/20¢. Out drivers are not penalized for late d-eliveries. 1 el997 Domino's Prua,lnc. 1 ..., __________________ ... : DINNER DEAL NO.4 : I ENJOY 2 LARGE PIZZAS EACH WITH I 1 2 TOPPINGS AND AN ORDER OF I 1 TWISTY BREAD FOR ONLY 1 : $18.97·ru ~ I (DEEP DISH • $1.00 EXTRA) I Expire-s: 12131/97 I • Vahdat parhcipalrno sloces only. No! valid ~rth <my other olfe_r_. Custom_ etpays s.ales 1 • lax where applicable Oelivery areas fimiled to ensl.fre safe dr1vinl} Ouninvers carry I less !han $20.00. Cash vafue 1/20¢. Our dovers are not penalized forlJte derrveries 1 4:'1997 Domino's Piz:za, Inc. ~------------------1 1 DINNERDEALNO.& I I CARRY OUT SPECIAL I I BUY 1 PIZZA AT REGULAR PRICE I I AND GET 1 OF EQUAL VALUE : I FREE!!! I I (O£EP DISH • $1.00 EXTRA) I 1 Explrn: 12/31197 1 • Vahd ,lf parllc1patmg slores onlv. Not valid wilh any olher offer Customer pays sales I • la.x wtlere apphcable De. livery areas hm1ted 10 ensure sal~ drivtno Our dm·ers carty 1 less than $20 00 Cast\ value 1120• Out duvers are not penahzed lot tate dehvenes L .:t>t997 Oomino's Puz<J, Inc .J ------------------- Don't Forget About Our Union College Student Specials!! Buy 2 Medium Handtossed Pizzas With 1 Topping On Each For Only $9a99 + Tax OR Buy 1 Large Handtossed Plain Pizza For Only $6.99 +Tax Free Delivery!! Call (518) 372-4441 .! I i i ·j t j 1 ! \ 1 I ! r r a s h tl s h g a~ IS tt· H fc fr at b< I I A. f,

He started here in the fafl of 1993, recruited to play soccer forthe Union College Dutchmen. Five years and an unbelievable story later, John Poor is still at Uni()n and among the elite in Union athletics .. As a student in Coming, New Hampshire, John excelled at soccer, cross- country skiing, and crew. After deciding to decline an offer to play varsity soccer, he i11stead took up the life of a rower, and decided that club crew was how he wanted to start his athletic endeavors at Union .. Little did he know what an endeavor his career here would tum out to be. After a successful ye.ar at cr.ew, John decided to take some time off from Union College. He spe.nt the fall and winter terms of 1994~95 traveling the United States,. fui,ving his sister's old car, using money that he had made during the summer and early fall of 1994. Such is the life of John Poor. His return to Union in the spring of 1995 marked the beginning of a transition for him. After being elected .president ofthe men's crew team upon his return, he began to notice that things were not as glorious as they had on<:e been. His history as a rower in New Hampshire for one of its most successful programs made him feel that the move to Union's team was a step down, and with this in mind he began looking for adifferent team with whom he could compete. That was how he found his way t() the rugby field. After a few practices. in the end of the spring of 1995~ John began his full-time affiliation with Union rugby. He made the A.sides as a strong side flanker, a position that requires agility, quickness, and raw speed. After a dominating season, he found .himself one of eight Union rugby players invited to play for New York~s Easter All-Star team. Again, dominating his posi- tion, he managed to be one of three scorers on the day of the East· West match, leading the East to a disappointing one point defeat at the hands of the West, but also the clo.set they had been to a victory since the early 1980's. This stellar performance was noted by New York's All-Star selectors and they decided that John, at the time a second term sopho- more, would join senior Jason Sanabia, and one year transfer Ian \Wales\ Laycock in representing aU ofN ew York State in its spring traveling all- stars. John elected to waive his chances of a return to the All-Stars, which is the beginning ofthe ro11d to mgby nationals (which he had missed by two cuts the previous year), and instead opted to take a term. abroad in Kenya, for the fall of 199(), It was a decision that he never anticipated would change his life so much. ·On November 27\' of 1996, John was hurrying through the streets ofNairobi in an attempt to catch a bus when he was hit by a car. 1he damage was quite extensive, if only limited to mostly his lower extremities. He had open fractures to the tibia and fibula ofboth legs, with the right leg being most severely injured. His tibia and .fibula were broken into three pieces and being that he had been carried to the hospital by the motorist, he was also missing bone from that e:Xtremity. His right femur also experienced massive damage, being broken into three pieces. Although going through massive surgery immediately in the Kenyan hospital, medical complications arose due to medfcation inadequacies and a lack ofnec- essary te.chno1ogy to perform all the surgery that was necessary. He was transported by MediVa.c back to Vermont, where more treatment was quickly administered to llim. His legs were mangled and many doubted, including myself, if tl1e once amazing John Poor would ever recover enough to walk or jog again, much less play athletics seriously. The process was a slow and frustrating, being that John was a natu· ral hiker, working by taking people on tours and hikes through the mountains ofNew Hampsllire. It wasn't until March 26, 1997 that he stood for the first time. In the s:pring he decided to make his second term away from Union a more active one as he became more involved with high school crew,coaching Niskayuna. The afternoon after rugby's 1997 Upstate Championships, (with whose help a year earlier, Union had won the title with), Which was in late May of 1997, John and I played a round of golf He <:auld walk short distances, but still required a golf cart to make the longer stretches in between drives and holes. Sadly enough he beat me 1hat day (although being 33 over par on 9 holes probably gives you a go()d idea why I play rugby). I remember thinking how crazy it was that he was an unstoppable force against SUNY Buffalo a year earlier, andnow he couldn't walk the length ofone hole of golf without a cart. I guess that the most amazing thing in this whole story is the never give up spirit that isJ()hn Po<Jr: He is in his junior year at Union, starting a.s a freshman in 1993 and graduating in 1999. All things considered it is amazing he is still rambling toward his degree. Even more amazing is that in late September of I 997, he made his return to athletics at the Head of the Mohawk Regatta. fie did not, however, return as a rower for Union Club Crew. After dub sports, all-star appearances, breaks from school both planned and unplanned, John Poor returned to Union athletics from a disastrous injury that many individuals would have not been able to walk well again from. And he did it as a Varsity athlete. All I can say is, damn John Poor, w.hat does it take to stop you? Indoor Track ResLLlt:s debut, won with a leap of 4.44m. Renn also finished second in the triple jump behind Union's Jennifer Miller. Miller had a fme day as weU winning the triple jump in 8.90m and finishing second in the 500tn. In the running events Union's co-captains, juniors Jessica Goveia and Katie MacDowell, went two- three in the 1500m. Amy Slabich in the 1000111 an<l Erica Brown in the 800m also had fin.e days and eagerly look forwardto the team's next competition in two weeks at Wesleyan. -Men'sResu]ts- WeightThrow3.Royall0.84; 4. Damon Bizzell 9.52; 5. Ben Blackwood 9.30;6. Kevin Christie 8.86; 9. Peter Mody 8.30; 10. Jonathan Tapper 8.52; Shot Put 3. Royall2.25;4. Blackwood I 1.94; Mody 11.20; Christie 10.56; Jonathan Tapper 9.89; 13izzell8.20; Long Jump 2. Chris Strohsahl5.37; Triple Jump l. Mike Martin 13.00; 1500m 2. JayGoldberg4: 14.38; 4. ·Terry Chang 4:49.94; 5. Steven • Schulee 5: 13. 13; 55111 2. Dennis Sanabia 6.87; 3. Strohsahl7.52; 5. Kevin Abessi 7.56; 7. Paul Curley 7.77; 400m3. JamesSciOtt56.54; 4. Nemo Bolin-Gamsby 57.51; 5. Ed Dombrowski 59.99;6. Curley67.67; 500m 1. Martin Knapp l: 11.22; 3. ·Jonathan Nieman 1:12.62; 5. Goldberg I: 15.81; 8.,1Jm I. Peter Flynn 2:00.37; 4. Schuler2:35.88; 5. Adam Oestreicher 3:03.04; 200m I. Sanabia 24.28; 3. Chris Guertin 25.72; 4. Kempton Rollims26.40; 6. Curley 27.94; 7. Mody 29.11; 3000m I. Flynn 9:40 .6; Goldberg 9:42.3; 4. Chang 1Cl:38; <l600m Jason Everett I TC Jason Goldberg hits his best stride last weeke11d. relay2. Knapp 55.05, Bolin 57.18, Cieslowski 1.37; l500m 2.Jessica Sanabia 55.1 I, Scott57.04- 3.:44.4; Goveia5:31.94, 3. Katie MacDowell 3200m relay 2. Guertin 2:08.89, 5:41.80; 55m2. Lee I 0.37; 500m2. Nieman 2: I I. I 7, Goldberg 2:12.75, Miller I :35.38, 3. Katherine Stock Flynn 2:23.76-8:56.57. I :43.32; 800m 2. Erica Brown -Women's Results- 2:47.95; lOOOm 2. Amy Slabich Shot Put 2. Carolyn Cieslowski 3:24.61; 200m2. Lee 33.~6,3.Chiulli 9. I4, 3. JordannaMallach 6. I5; Pole 38.76, 3000m 2. Amy Marko 15:38, Vault Mallach DQ; Long Jump I. 1600m relay 2. Chiulli, Mallach, Autumn Renn 4.44, 3. Daniela Miller 1:39, Marko I :32 · 6:00; Chiullo 3.66, 4. Stella Lee 2.66; 3200m relay 2. Slabich 2:37.9, Triple Jump l.Jennifer Miller 8.90, MacDowe112:55.63, S,rown 2:57, 2. Renn 8.88; High Jump 1. Goveia2:47-11:18. ~------------------------------~~------------------------~ S--wirnrning Splashes Back ... Continued from page 21 The men's diving events were dominated by Union as well. Cap- tain Brian Field set a po()l record in the three-meter diving event, ac- cumulating 302.05 tQtal points. while qualifying him for the NCAA's. Field added that \It was tough coming in with a loss against Williams last weekend, but every- one performed confidently.\ On the women's side, the results were just as positive. Sophomore Clewis Kin net won both the 200 free and 500 free events, with times of 2:01.35 and 5:25.96, respectively. Ken-y Librandi took the 1000 free, with a time of II :20.45. The Union women also won the 400 free relay. Librandi, Kinnet, Kelly Jamieson, and Rachel Miller finished with a time of3:5 1.90~ Other top finishers forUnion in- cluded Erin Wittes in the 200 fly, with a time of2:22.49, and Sarah Spaulding finishing the 200 back with a time of2: 16.67. Captain Meg McCarthy had a spectacular performance ill the 200 breast, finishing with a time of 2:27.18, which qualified her for NCAA's. Like their male counterparts, the Union women also stood apart in the diving events. Heather Weisenfluh won both the l and 3 meter competitions, setting new pool records in both of beT events. Her scores of 234.40 and 273.10 were good enough to qualify her for the NCAA's. Filel\hllto /TC Captain Meg McCartlzy /tad a great weekelfd for the rwint program. As always, any ideas for teams o:r r(lthletes can be dropped to me in Box 1490 Captain MegMcCarthy feltthat ~----------------------------~ the victory was hard-earned. \I feel that the women's team pulled together and worked really hard. We deserved the win,.\ she said. Next week, Union hits the tough part of its schedule. The menand women will swim agains:t RPI on Wednesday, and then battle Middlebury next Saturday.

1998. Ind<><>r Track ResLtlt:s From All-Star to Wheel~h~tr a~(f Back . debut, won with a leap of 4.44m. Renn also finished second in the triple jl!lmp behind Union's Jennifer Miller. Miller had a fine day as well winning the triple jump in 8.90m and finishing second in the 500m. In the running events Union's He started here in the fall of 1993, recruited to play soccer for the co-captains, juniors Jessica Goveia · Union College Dutchmen. Five years and an unbelievable story later, and Katie MacDowell, went two- John Poor is still at Union and among the elite in Union athletics. As a three in the 1500m. Amy Slabich in student in Corning, New Hampshire, John excelled at soccer, cross- the 1 OOOm and Erica Brown in the country skiing, and crew. After deciding to decline an offer to play SOOm also had fine days and varsity soccer, he instead took up the life of a rower, and decided that eagerly look forward to the team's club crew was how he wan led 10 start his athletic endeavors at Union. next competition in two weeks at Uttle did he know what an endeavor his career here would turn out to Wesleyan. b -Men'sResults- e. After a successful year at crew, John decided to take some time off Weight Throw 3. Royal I 0.84; from Union College. He spent the fall and winter terms of 1994-95 4 · Damon Bizzell 9.52; 5. Ben traveling t~e United States, driving his sister's old car, using money Blackwood 9.30; 6. Kevin Christie thathehadmadeduringthesummerandearlyfallofl994. Suchisthe 8 · 86 ; 9 · Peter Mody 8.30; 10. life of John Poor. His return to Union in the spring of 1995 marked the Jonathan Tapper 8.52; Shot Put 3. beginning of a transition for him. After being elected president of the Royall 2 .25; 4. Blackwood 11.94; men's crew team upon his return, he began to notice that things were Mody !!.20; Christie I 0.56; not as glorious as they had once been. His history as a rower in New Jonathan Tapper9.8 9 ; Bizzell8.20; Hampshire for one of its most successful programs made him feel that Long Jump 2 · ChrisStrohsahl5.37; the move to Union's team was a step down, and with this in mind he Triple Jump I. Mike Martin 13.00; began looking for a different team with whom he could compete. That ISOOm 2. JayGoldberg4: 14.38; 4. was how he found his way to the rugby field. After a few practices in Terry Chang 4 :4 9 · 94 ; 5 · Steven the end ofthe spring of 1995, John began his full-time affiliation with Schulee 5 : 13 · 13 ; 55m 2. Dennis Union rugby. He made the A-sides as a strong side flanker, a position Sanabia 6 · 87 ; 3 · Strohsahl 7 · 52 ; 5 · Jason Evmtt!TC that requires agility, quickness, and raw speed. After a dominating Kevin Abessi 7.56; 7. Paul Curley Jason Goldberg !tits his best stride last weekend. season, he found himself one of eight Union rugby players invited to 7.77; 400m3. James Scott56.54;4. relay 2. Knapp 55.05, Bolin 57.18, Cieslowski 1.37; 1500m 2. Jessica NemoBolin Gamsby57 Sl· ~ Ed Sanabia55.ll,Scott57.04-3:44.4·, Goveia5:31.94,3.KatieMacDowell play for New York's Easter All-Star team. Again, dominating his posi- - ·- · - · tion, he managed to be one of three scorers on the day of the East-West Dombrowski 59.99; 6. Curley67.67; 3200m relay 2. Guertin 2:08.89, 5:41.80; 55m2. Lee I 0.37; 500m2. match, leading the East to a disappointing one point defeat at the hands SOOm I. Martin Knapp I: 11.22; 3. Nieman 2:11.17, Goldberg 2:12.75, Miller I :35.3 8, 3. Katherine Stock fth W t bt I th I t h hdb . . h JonathanNI.eman I·l'6'· 'i Flynn2:23.76-8:56.57. 1:43.32;800m2.EricaBrown o e es , u a so e c ose t ey a een to a VIctory smce t e · - · -' · · Goldberg I·l'i 81· 800m I Peter -Women's Results- 2:47.95,· IOOOm 2. Amy Slabich early 1980's. ThisstellarperformancewasnotedbyNewYork'sAII-Star · -· ' · · I t d II d ·d d h J h h . d h Fl\nn?·0037· ~ Sc .. uler'·JS 88·'i Shot Put2.Carol\-·nCi•·slo\·ski. 3:24.6l:.200m2.Lee33.86,3.Chiulli seecorsan 1ey ec1 e tat o n,att et1measecon termsop o- ·' -· · ·\~· 11 -· -· ·-· .7 .... \ ld · · · J S b' d . Adam Oestrei.cher 3 ·OJ 04· 200m 1 9.14. l.Jordanna Mallacll 6.1-\i Pole 38.76, JOOOm 2. Ann. Marko 15.·38, more, wou JOin semor ason ana m, an one year transfer Jan \Wales\ · · · · - - k Sanabia 24.28; 3. Chris Guertin Vault Mal!ach DQ; Long.Jump I. 1600m rcht) 2. Chiulli, Mallach, Laycoc · in representing all ofNew York State in its spring traveling all- ?5 71· 4 Ken1pton Rolll·ns'6 40· 6 Autumn Renn 4.44, _,~. f)ar1I.el·• Miller I :39, Marko I :32 - 6:00,· stars. - · -, · - · · · \' John elected to waive his chances of a return to the All-Stars, which Curley 27.94; 7. Mod) 29.11; Chiullo 3.66, 4. Stella Lee 2 66: 3200m relay 2. Slabich 2:37.9. 3000m I Flvnn 9'40 t:.. • Goldber\ Triple Jump I. Jennifer Miller 8.90. MacDo\Ae112:55 .63. Brown 2:5 7. is the beginning of the road to rugby nationals (which he had missed by · · · .v. b I · ) d' d d k 9'4'J3·4C'Ilang!0·38·1600m 2.Renn8.88.·.HighJ••mnt. Goveia2:47-11:18. twocutstleprevJousyear ,an In~ea opte to~ earermabroadin ~-·---·~· ~· ~~~~~·~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~u~-r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Kenya, for the fall of 1996. It was a decision that he never anticipated would change his life so much. On November 27' 11 of 1996, John was hurrying through the streets of Nairobi in an attempt to catch a bus when he was hit by a car. The damage was quite extensive, if only limited to mostly his lower extremities. He had open fractures to the tibia and fibu Ia of both legs, with the right leg being most severely injured. His tibia and fibula were broken into three pieces and being that he had been carried to the hospital by the motorist, he was also missing bone from that extremity. His right femur also experienced massive damage, being broken into three pieces. Although going through massive surgery immediately in the Kenyan hospital, medical complications arose due to medication inadequacies and a lack of nec- essary technology to perform all the surgery that was necessary. He was transported by MediVac back to Vermont, where more treatment was quickly administered to him. His legs were mangled and many doubted, including myself, if the once amazing John Poor would ever recover enough to walk or jog again, much less play athletics seriously. Svvimming Splashes Back Continued from page 21 ••• The process was a slow and frustrating, being that John was a natu- ral hiker, working by taking people on tours and hikes through the mountains of New Hampshire. It wasn't until March 26, 1997 that he stood for the first time. In the spring he decided to make his second term away from Union a more active one as he became more involved with high school crew, coaching Niskayuna. The afternoon after rugby's 1997 Upstate Championships, (with whose help a year earlier, Union had won the title with), which was in late May of 1997, John and I played a round of golf. He could walk short distances, but still required a golf cart to make the longer stretches in between drives and holes. Sadly enough he beat me that day (although being 33 over par on 9 holes probably gives you a good idea why I play rugby). I remember thinking how crazy it was that he was an unstoppable fcrce against SUNY Buffalo a year earlier, and now he couldn't walk the length of one hole of golf without a cart. I guess that the most amazing thing in this whole story is the never give up spirit that is John Poor. He is in his junior year at Union, starting as a freshman in 1993 and graduating in 1999. All things considered it is amazing he is still rambling toward his degree. Even more amazing is that in late September of 1997, he made his return to athletics at the Head of the Mohawk Regatta. He did not, however, return as a rower for Union Club Crew. After club sports, all-star appearances, breaks from school both planned and unplanned, John Poor returned to Union athletics from a disastrous injury that many individuals would have not been able to walk well again from. And he did it as a Varsity athlete. All I can say is, damn John Poor, what does it take to stop you? The men's diving events were dominated by Union as well. Cap- tain Brian Field set a pool record in the three-meter diving event, ac- cumulating 302.05 total points, while qualifying him for the NCAA's. Field added that \It was tough coming in with a loss against Williams last weekend, but every- one performed confidently.\ On the women's side, the results were just as positive. Sophomore Clewis Kinnet won both the 200 free and 500 free events, with times of 2:01.35 and 5:25.96, respectively. Kerry Librandi took the 1000 free, with a time of II :20.45. The Union women also won the 400 free relay. Librandi, Kinnet, Kelly Jamieson, and Rachel Miller finished with a time of3:51.90. Other top finishers for Union in- cluded Erin Wittes in the 200 fly, with a time of2:22.49, and Sarah Spaulding finishing the 200 back with atimeof2:16.67. Captain Meg McCarthy had a spectacu Jar performance in the 200 breast, finishing with a time of 2:2 7 .18, which qualified her for NCAA's. Like their male counterparts, the Union women also stood apart in the diving events. Heather Weisenfluh won both the 1 and 3 meter competitions, setting new pool records in both of her events. Her scores of 234.40 and 273 .I 0 were good enough to qualify her for the NCAA's. As always, any ideas for teams or athletes can be dropped to me in Box 1490 Captain Meg McCarthy felt that L--------------~~---~--~---' the victory was hard-earned. \I File Photo I TC Captain Meg McCartlzy It ad a great weeke11d for the swim program. feel that the women's team pulled together and worked really hard. We deserved the win,\ she said. Next week, Union hits the tougl1 part of its schedule. The men and women wi II swim against RPI on Wednesday, and then battle Middlebur') next Saturday.

• MATH • ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING • MECHANIC • INEERING• Whern something is too ex:treme for words, it's to t:n-e Nth degree:. And that's the level of technology y.ou'll experience <zt Raytheon. Roy.t heo n. hos formed o new techno log.icol sup~ r.power -·Raytheon Systems Company, ccmp<:>sed of four moj·or techno!ogi.col giants: Raytheon Electronic System:., Rttytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl System-s and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Syster11s Company is driving Jechnology to the limit. And we're I<Jokin.g for en9ineers who wont to push the envelope. Breok new ground. Make their mark. At Raytheon, you'll toke Jechnology-(lnd your cor.cer-to the highest possible level. Yot/11 toke il !o the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Con tad your career plocen1ent office flow to schedule on interv.iow. or check out ovr website ot WW\v.royjobs.com. If you are unable to meer with vs, please se~d your res:~;.~ me to: Roy-tneon Staffing, P.O. Box 655 474, MS-201. Oollos, TX 75265. We hove many exciting opportunities available and W<'! would like to talk to you. Cred.it card debt c:ar1 ~-critical! Keep your credit card debt limited to what•s essential: educationallrrela:ted expenses. CotlegeCard is a tow interest loan in the form of a credit card to Jielt y()IJ through school and protect your financial well-being. Examtne the p()ssibilities. ·call 8oo\5.32·7644 to apply by p~one. SOUTHWEST STUDENT SERVICES CORPORATlONqo A nontnufitcor,~()r~t- icm pmmoting tlctc\ss to ccluwtion 1201 .'i. Alma Srncml Road. 1 Jtil Nmn /l.km, Arizona 85210·2014 llllp:llwww.sssc.rom ' ; . i ' i i

0 • • MATH • ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING • MECHANICAL ENGINEERING• BUSINESS ANALYSIS When somethmg IS too extreme for words, 1! s to the Nth degree And that's the kv<JI of technology yov 'II cxpenence at Raytheon Raytheon has forrned u new tcchnologi<OI sup<Hpower-- Raytheon Systems Company, <ampos.od of four mojor technologiCal giants Raytheon Elcctron1c Sy~tems., Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Syslern::. ond Hvghes A1rcrofl The new Raytheon Syr.tems Company i;, dnvmg lachnology to the limit And we're looktng for engu\loers who want to push the cnvC'Iope. Break new ground. Make their mork. At Raytheon, you'll toke technology-and y01Jr career-to the h1ghesl possible lcvol You'll toke it to lr11~ Nth. We'll be vi~iting your <.:ompu~ soon Contact you< career placement offt<e now to schedule on Interview. or check out our web:.de at wwv; roy jobs com If you are unable to meet wilh us, please send your resume to Raytheon Staffing. PO Box 655 474, MS-201. Dallo.s, TX 75265 We hove many exciting opportun1t1es uvuiloble ur1d we would hke to talk to you. Geppettos is proud to offer ·union stud~nts a 10% Discount for lunch or dinner. Beat the lunch lines and visit our comfortable atmosphere across the street from Fero House on Nott Street. · We·also, offer CredJt card debt can be critical! Keep your credit card debt limited to what .. s essential; educationally related expenses. CollegeCard is a tow interest loan in the form of a credit card to help you through school and protect your financial weH-being. Examine the possibilities. Call 800-532-7644 to apply by phone. •.,·FREE···•····, •-·•o···· _,E;~L·· .iQgoy __ •·._:_l· ' \ •. , .• \•- .,,,_ ... >\ ,... •• -< ·,_, .. · .. .;!.~ ·:, -\' ·. >JZqtt::arz:,g~f)~'~·i·to. · .· •. SuuTHWI~ST STtJDFNT SrHVJCFS CORI')ORATION® :\ 11<'11/ll<l/IJ llllfJ<IIrll.l<lll JH'•mnti ng (ll r l'\\ t.o nluwU (IT). l.!t 1 1 'l :\lma .\c lio,ll(clucl. 1/dt floor .\fna. A 1 i ;:nnll 1-{1:2.1 (l. 20 H I! up llwww \~'>(.,Pill ,'f?'~:~!ff~oJJ!~t· ·rhe Conco~diensis · sent you.

Stanford Making noise in the Ptlc-10 Has anybody noticed that Staillford is undefeated? Well, it's time to recog;nizethis school for more than just Tiger Woods, Chelsea Clinton, and its great e~cademic reputation. Mostpeopleprobablycan 't even name a Stanford .starter. With Brevi11Kiiight; one· of college basketball's best players a year :ago, gone to the NBA, few .expected Stanford to be this dominant :rnidway through the season. However,junior g1.1ard Kris Weems and 7-1 center Tim Y O.\lng.have led a deep, physical Stanford team past aU l6ofStanford's opponents, andthe11umber 7 team in the nation. AlthoughStanf()r<lhas only beaten two ranked opponents, Rhode Island and UCLA, they should n<it be ignored. In a statement by Rhode Island coach Jim Barrick, he had only great things to say about the Cardinals. '\'riley are unbelievably physical, the biggest team in the nation.\ In addition to their pltys ical play they possess one of the best bacJkcourts in the country. The before mentioned Weems is averaging 14 points, and teamed with fellow backcourt mate Arthur Lee, ( 4.5 APG) they can play with anyone. Stanford wiHneed everyone to contribute iftlley hope to get the school record of 17 consecutive victories. They now enter the most difficult partoftheir schedule playing fellow FAC-1 0 powers Arizona and UCLA while h~sting UConn at home. Allthree teams are ranked in the top ten. Guthridge Winning with Smith's 7ectm Replacing Dean Smith, c()Jiege basketball's most winning coach, is n{lteasy, but when your team starts the seasort i 7-0 and is number one in the nation, it di>t;S not matter who you replace. The Tarheels fast start was just what first year coach Bill Guthridge needed. Until unranked Maryland (I 0-6,3-3 ACC}knocked off the previ.ously unbeaten Tarheels 89-83 in overtime, Guthridge and his Heels enjoyed life ()Jl top of college basketballs best conference. His success even made fans temporarily f-orget about the coach who won 879 games for Carolina. However, Guthridge can'ttal(e all the CJedit. Smith's mark is firmly pla11ted ()fl this team. Carolina is made up of players recruited and coached by Smith. In fa~t 1 it is similar to the St. John's situation whe11 the legendary Lou Carnesseca retired and was replaced by assistant Brian Mah.oilley. Mahoney had a great first year advancing to the round of 16 in the NCAA toumarne11t and was named Big East coach ofthe year .. However, the players were Carnesseca':s players, theyjust happened to be coaciled by M<1boney. Four years later Mahoney was fired as coach after se\Veral disappointing seasons. Notto say the same will happen to Guthridge, but the true test will come a couple years from now, wl!ert it will be solely Guthridge's team. Carolina returned all of its key players from their final four team a year ago. Leading the way is All-American Antwan Jamison, (21.8 PFG) and high flying junior Vince Carter (16 .I PPG). Nobody has found a way to s:top Jamison, ana that is the main reason whyno team has found a way to beat UNC. Tak:ing nothing away from Maryland's vict()ry, Jamison scored27 points and had he hit som~ crucial free throws down the stretch . . ' Guthridge might still be wondering what it · feels like to lose. Duketook ~verthenumber one ranking; but North Carolina will have the chance to regain it February fifth when the two teams meet in what has become an · epic battle over the years. altern~tive TUJJ[lg$ SEEEEEYA! ' . . ,_ ..... :· . ·' ., ·-'·'. -~ , TOP THIRTEEN ALTERNATJJ!ETHINGSTOTRROW ONTHEICEATUN!ONHOCKEYGAMES. l3 .. Remain!ng.Unio.n,.st~;~dents who do not own a \North Face\ jacket and/or Adtfidas · wantll·UP pants El~Amin is what Uconn was Missing Last year the UConn Huskies finished the season 18-15 missing the NCAA tournament for the first time in four years. With essentially the same team returning which posted this disappointing record, the Huskies needed a quick fix ifthey were to once again, be nationally recognized. Enter Khalid El-Amin. Upon first look one would think that this short, stubby freshman belongs at McDonald's rather than leading the Huskies on fast breaks. However, El- Amin, who at the age of 18 has already been married, divorced, and had a child, is one of the best freshmen in the country. The 5-l 0, 195 pound El-Amin has started all but one game for the Huskies this season and has helped lOth ranked Uconn post a 16-2 record. He has brought with him not only great basketball ability, but the leadership the Huskies so desperately needed. Last years team started three talented freshmen, and two sophomores. They lacked the experience and leadership necessary to win close games. What a difference a year makes. Although the Huskies have not played the most difficult competition thus far, El-Amin has emerged as a leader of this team and his now experienced teammates have raUied around him. With El-Amin dishing the ball off to Co-Big East Playerofthe week, Richard Hamilton, (22.6 PPG) UConn has steamrolled over much of its competition. The upside to El-Amin is amazing, b11t with the recent trend of college freshmen and sophomores leaving early for the NBA, Connecticut fans should enjoy him while he lasts. 12. rnose people who successfully cut the· '\pasta ... bar,'' \demonstration cooking/' and . \entree:s\ in upper~class and make it to the sandwich line with()ut p*****goffmQre Player of the Week Mike Bibby G Arizona Bibby led the Wildcats over Arizona State and 14th ranked New Mexico averaging 23 PPG and 7 APG. In upsetting North Carolina, Maryland's Laron Profit garnered serious consideration, but the Terp's disappointing loss to Wake Forest ruined his chances. This Weeks Top Ten Everyone loves to say who they think the topten teams in college basketball are. As a weekly feature, I plan on listing my top ten. In addition, I'd like to feature a fan pole if enough people respond. Please put your · top ten teams in box number 902 each Saturday to be included. 1. Duke 2. North Carolina 3. Arizona 4. Utah · 5. Kansas (). Stanford 7. Kentucky 8. Connecticut 9. UCLA 1 0. Princeton three ;peoJJie ·ll. Aobundance of Club U attendees .I 0. lJnion' s. \cannot be hyped enough\ CCM hats that have be~n actually bOught 9 .. l~s:q~s ofDeinos and/or Concordiensis that do not offend anyone 8. Wl'i:txi~rs players who did not attenc:J Spree's \apology'' press-conference 7. \N;on-defensive' 7 fratemity/sorodty related articles 6. R.~tnalriffigNY Knicks fans 5. Tllose w}lo think AFC football will resurrect CBS 4. Packer fans who can actually find Green Bay on a map 3. U11ion students who can find the library on a map outsideoffr,nals week 2. NtCltl-price intlated'bookstore items t. Ftee~agent athletes who change teams and admit that \It was :tit about the .money.\ Skating Dutchmen. Seeing Red · ... Continued from page 21 RPI retained its 4-0 lead. Then, at 14:27 tCf tile period with Union short-lullded, senior tri-captain Charlie::Mox:ham gave the Dutch- men farns something to cheer about. Moxham, taking a pass from freshm<~n Clark Jones skated in with a b;urst of speed alone on Laing, .:lepositing the puck in the back ofthe net to cut the lead to 4- 1 and aiiDw the traditional9ranges and the noew addition of a squid to rain dOI.VIl onto the iee. Unfmrtunately, the Dutchmen would faiJ apart in the third, spend- ing the majority ofthe period kill- ing various penalties in what would ble a feisty stanza for both teams_ Tile Engineers would score three goa.ls, two of them on the power-pth:ty t()go up 7-1, as gloves and sticks littered the ice through• out the period .. It was junior tri- captain Mark Szucs netting his eighth ga!ll ofthe season on a rare Rick Ledererrrc Union pol\'er·play ending the scor- Mark Szucs, tme of the weeka~d bright spots. ing in this extracurricular activity filled game. 31 with face-off scheduled for 7 PM. The ti.ed-foi-eleventh place Dutchmen, with a rel(ord of 3-15-2 overall and a 2-8-1 record in tile ECAC, take a weekend off from league competition as they travel to West Point, N''V to take on the Black Knights of Army Friday night at 7 PM. The team attempts to r:egroup and prcp<m.: for lhcir next ECAC rnatchup, a rematch at the RPI Houston Field House on Saturday, January Between tbe Pipes Junior forward Brent Ozarowski ex- tended his point sc<Jring streak to four games with an assist. Freshmen dcfcnseman Alex Todd and Jason Ralph were both given game- miswru.luct:. in the thirJ period of Saturday night's game. Sophomore forward Matt Kuzniar missed the game with the flu.

Stanford Making noise in the Pac-J() Has anybody noticed that Stanf<>td is undefeated? Welil, it's time to recognize this school for more than just Tiger Woods, Chelsea Clinton, and its great academic reputation. Most people probably can ,t even name a Stanford starter. With Brevin Kliligllt, one of college basketball's best players a year ago, gone to the NBA, few expected Stanford to be this dominant midway through the season. However, junior guard Kris Weems and 7-1 center Tim YouAghave led a deep, pbysical Stanford team past all 16 ofStanford's opponents, and the number 7 team in the nation. Although Stanford h.as oHiy beaten two ranked opponents, Rhode Island and UCLA, they should not be ignored. In a statement by Rhode Island coach Jim Harrick, he had only great things to say about the Cardinals. \They are unbelievably physical, the biggest team in the nation.\ In addition to their physical play they possess one of the best backcourts in the country. The before mentioned Weems is averaging 14 points, and teamed with fe II ow backcourt mate Arthur Lee, ( 4 .5 APG) they can play with anyone. Stanford will need everyone to contribute if they hope to get the schoo I record of 17 consecutive victories. They now enter the most difficult part of their schedule playing fellow PAC-I 0 powers Arizona and UCLA while hosting UConn at home. All three teams are ranked in the top ten. Guthridge Winning with Smith's Team Replacing Dean Smith, college basketball's most winning coach, is not easy, but when your team starts the season 1 7-0 and is number one in the nation, it does not matter who you replace. The Tarheels fast start was just what first year coach Bi II Guthridge needed. Until unranked Maryla11d ( l 0-6, 3-3 ACC) knocked off the previously unbeaten Tarheels 89-83 in overtime, Guthridge and his Heels enjoyed life on top of college basketballs best conference. His Jamison s~ored 27 points and had he hit some crucial free throws down the stretch, Guthrid,g~i; might still be wondering what it feels like:t0 lose. Duke took over the number one ranl<i n.:g, but North Carolina will have the chance to regain it February fifth when tfue two teams meet in what has become an epic bat11c; over the years. El-A~ni.n is what Uconn was Missing Last )'\eCJrtlle UConn Huskies finished the season I 8-1 5 missing the NCAA tournament for the first time in four years. With essentia 11~ the same team returning which posted tiJ,is disappointing record, the Huskies 11e-eded a quick fix if they were to once agairn, be nationally recognized. Enter KhalidEI-~min. Upon first look one would think th<tt this short, stubby freshman belongs atMcDonald's ratherthan leading the Husl<i es <m fast breaks. However, El- Amin, wh>O atthe age of 18 has already been married,.. tiiworced, and had a chHd, is one of the best iroeslunen in the country. The 5-10, 195 pound E.l-Amin has started all but one game f()r the Huskies tfuis season and has helped l()th ranked UconH post a 16-2 record. He has bmught with him not only great basketbal] abi I ity, but the leadership the Huskies sco desperately needed. Last years team sta:.rtei:l three talented freshmen, and two SOJlllomores. They lacked the experierucc; and leadership necessary to win close gar11es. What a difference a year makes. Althougl1 the Huskies have not played the most difficllllt competition thus far, El-Amin has emerged as a leader of this team and his now experi e11ced teammates have rallied around h irn. With El-Amin dishing the ball off to Co-!Jig East Player of the week, Richard Hamiltm,~2:2.6 PPG) UConn has steamrolled over mucil Cllf its competition. The upside to El-Amin is:a.mazing, bttt with the recent trend of college freshmen and sophomores leaving early for the NBA, Connecticut fans should enjoy hi111 wh.ile he lasts. success even made fans temporarily forget Player~tfze Week about the coach who won 879 games for Mike Bi.htll}' G Ari::ona The Danger Zone ' I:Jy Jason Everett lnternatibtutl Sports Writ~rt (){Mystery : Before; yo~ ~t<: what i$ this Jason Everett character doing writing something that does hothave'anythitig t(l do with Unipn 's cross .. country c()ttrack teams let mejusttell yott that thismorni~auuylapse is g~te to an inspiration I had after reading the closmgparagrapbs of ChrisLeone•s £Omm~nffn'Y last week. This was wh~e he sarcastically (we h<>pe) said that \a prize is beins offered fer the stUdent who comes 1.1p with the cleverestw~ty to sneak an orange into 1he RPI game.\' If you do not know, Chris is our own version of ~'slash\ here at the O:mcordiensis • Sports Editor J Managing Ecit()r I Pain in the A\\* (j11st kidding · Chris). Although I feel Union students will do Ctuis proud in stretching the limits, of creativity in smuggling contraband fruits into Achilles rink, the fact that this top ten list is coming (}Ut after the game takes place, a top ten list on 4 'top Ten Most Successful Ways to Smuggle Fruit Into the RPI Game\would be inappropriate unless I wanted t<J provide a \How to\ list. I believe in traditions and feel that Union studel!ts should know about the school's history and continue as many traditions as possible, no matter how cheesy they may seem at times. Despite this I do not support th~ tossing of oranges, ~pples~ pears, clementin.es or any other type of fruit onto the ice at Union or anywhere else for that matter except for a bad stage act in the old-west or Yulrnan Theater. I think simple vulgar, obscenity laced tirades at opposing athletes is alway.s the best way to rn.ess witlt people's heads, unless you are 'Radio Shack (why do they aS'k for your phone number when you buy batteries?). Well, not really. Anyway, the act ~fthrowing oranges on. tCY the ice leads me to ask though, what is more dangerous .... throwingthe rotten Upperclas.s <lining hall oranges onto the ice or depriving Uni<>n students of Vitamin C for a week e\ery year? Two last random points: 1) 'This is atop thirteen list, not ten~· live with it, ltnd2) I know • this is a sports section. and there are some things ot1 ih:is list that have nothing to dowith . sports, but if there are athletes who do rap albums wbo cannot rap for anything {too many to name), I can do whatever I want as well, So ~ith<>ut further adieu, here is my list of alternative things that can be thrown that have the least possibility of hurting anyone. SEEEEEYAf TOP THiRTEEN ALTERNATIVETIIINGSTO THROW ON THE ICE AT UNION HOCKEY GAMES 13. Remaining Union students who do not own a ~'N01th Face\ jacket and/or Addi<las warm-up pants 12. Those people who sttccessfully cut the \pasta-bar \demonstration. cooldng,\and \entrees\ in upper-ctassan d make it to the sandwich line without p*****g offmore than three people 11. Abundance of Club U attendees 10. Union's '\cannot be llyped enough\ CCM hat:s that have been actu.ally !>ought 9. Issues of Deinos and! or Concordiensis that d() not offend anyone 8. Warriors players who did n<>t attend Spree's \aj)ology\ press-conference 7. \Non-defensive\ fraternity/sorority related articles 6. Remaining NY Knicks. fans 5. Those who think AFC football will resurrect CBS 4. Packer fans who can actually find Green Bay on a map 3. Union students who can find the library onamap outside offmals week 2. Non-price inflated bookstore items 1. Free-agent athletes who change teams and admit that \It was all about the money.\ Skating Dutchmen Seeing Red ... Continued from page 21 Carolina. However, Guthridge can't take all ~ilbby led the Wildcats over RPI retained its 4-0 lead. Then, at the credit. Smith's mark is firmly planted <>n Arizona State and 14th ranked New Mexico 14:27 of the period with Union this team. Carolina is made up of players averagin~ 2J PPG and 7 APG. In upsetting short-handed, senior tri-captain recruited and coached by Smith. In fact, it is North Caro !ina, Maryland's Laron Profit Charlie Moxham gave the Dutch- similar to the St. John's situation when tile garnered .serious consideration, but the men fans something to cheer legendary Lou Carnesseca retired and was Terp' s d is.appointing loss to Wake Forest about. Moxham, taking a pass from replaced by assistant Brian Mahoney. ruined his chances. freshman Clark Jones skCtted in Mahoney had a great first year advancing This W~eii~ Top Ten with a burst of speed alone on to the round of 16 in the NCAA tournament Everyo11e loves to say who they think the Laing, depositing the puck in the and was named Big East coach of the year. top ten te-arn sin college basketball are. As a back of the net to cut the lead to 4- H ow ever, the players were Carnesseca' s weekly [~i;11ture, I plan on listing my top ten. I and allow the traditional oranges players, they just happened to be coached In addition, I'd like to feature a fan pole if and the new addition of a squid to by Mahoney. Four years later Malloney enough pe:(}ple respond. Please put your rain down onto the ice. was fired as coach after several top ten teams in box number 902 each Unfortunately, the Dutchmen disappointing seasons. Not to say the same Saturday t() be included. would fall apart in the third, spend- will happen to Guthridge, but the true test I. Dui<e ing the majority of the peri()d kill- will come a couple years from now, when it 2. Nonh<:arolina ing various penalties in what will be solely Guthridge's team. Carolina 3. Ari.:zo11a would be a feisty stanza for both returned all of its key players from their final 4. Utflh · teams. The Engineers would score four team a year ago. Leading the way is 5. Ka11sa.s three goals, two of them on the All-American Antwan Jamison, (21.8 PPG) 6. Stalllf<Prd power-play to go up 7-1, as gloves and high flying junior Vince Carter (16. 1 7. Kent11~eky and sticks littered the ice through- PPG). Nobody has found a way to stop 8. Co11n~cticut out the period. It was junior tri- Jamison, and that is the main reason why no 9. UCL.A captain Mark Szucs Hetti11g his team has found a way to beat UNC. Taki.ng 10. Princei<>n eighth goal ofthe season on a rare Rick Ledererrrc nothing away from Maryland's victory, Union power-play ending the scor- Mark Szucs. rJI!e of the weekend bright spots. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~inginiliisextracurricu~radivhyfilkdg~Je. 31w~hGce-offscheduledfur7P~I. Are ,-olil. ~~~,i~J!:~~ii;i~~8~~~~i •... · ·. wi~: ~~~;~·:~e!~~;~~h.~~::~ ~~'~h;:;~i If so, rememberthose whoarel~s:s:rortunate thft.Q;:;:·> : record in the ECAC, take a weekend off from yourself. Every:day people a;re .ljvJtiit'Prltfie·.'$if~~t~:.~:, 1 ,.. ~~i~~~ ~~~~~~~~~:~:~ri~~~~v~nti~h~e~~ without wann clothes .. Takethe time1o donatean·~xtra···· Army Friday night at 7 PM. The team attempts to regroup and pn:pan: for their piece Of ClOthing tO the needy. . . .. next EC AC match up, a rernatch at the RPI Houston Field House on Saturday, January ~----------------------~------~ .. ~~----~~--~ Between the Pip~s Juniur forward Brent Ozarowski ex- tended his point scoring str<.:ak to four games with an assist. Freshmen defenseman Alex Todd aJldJason Ralph were botll given game- miscllndu~o:b in the third period ofSaturJa) night's game. Sophomore fof'\ard Matt Kuzni:armissed the game with the tlu.

Why Dave Brown Should Buy CBS Stock by Chris Leone Sports Editor Let me face the facts: CBS is never going to offer me a job. lfby chance they offet:ed me a job, as a good football fan I would have to decline the position. As you are all well aware ofby now., tlte NFL is returning to the \eye\ network. Af- ter a bidding war against rival incumbent NBC, CBS won the rights to broadcast AFC games for the next ~ight years. While this news will mean higher profits for the net- work, it will niean trouble for the league. CBS will do a great job broadcasting the games. A group of ex-commentators and the addition of some big name analysts( i.e .. NBC free agent Phil Simms) should make tile AFC games (although not as interesting as the NFC) bearable. With Jim Nantz ancher- ing the pregame hour, the network has done itself well, and staple60 Minutes should re- turn to the top of the sacred Nielsen ratings. So why should football fans be angry at the network? The answer is based on salary cap numbers and relies heavily on the dam- agethe new deal will wreak on the free agent market Last year the salary cap for NFL teams came in at approximately 44 million dollars. While this number is not exceedingly high, it is now going to increase. The new deal between CBS and the NFL is worth a re· ported 500 million per season. Over the eight year span of the agreement, the total intake for the league is a bit over four billion dol- lars, a 133% increase over the previous deal with NBC. A portion ofthenew deal will go to the teams, thus in accordance to a deal with the player's union the cap increases. Why should one care ifthe cap increases? All that needs to be said for New York fans is the bumbling quarterbacks Dave Brown and Neil 0' Donnell. At the end of this season it looked as though Brown would be headed away from the Giants for cap reasons. The former first round pick currently earns tvvo million a year and since the Giants were right on the cap at the end of the year, Brown seemed like a likely cut in order for the teams to sign rook- ies. Now thanks to CBS, it is possible that Brown wi !I remain a Giant. · Here is how the plan for Brown to remain works. Let us say the cap goes up by 10% to an estimated48 million. The Giants would have roughly four million to sign draft picks, and free agents. Since the Giants e not known for free agent spending, the salary cap is no longer an issue. If the Giants could Fans or No Fans? by David Weiner What exactly is this school trying to do? I mean, would the admjnistration rather the students not ever come out to support the Union sports teams? Would they be hap- pier if instead of attending hockey or bas- ketball games this winter, we stayed in out dorms and studied, or went out to parties earlier in the night and drank even m~re? What is the administration trying to do? These questions stem from events that took place last Saturday night, events I am sure everyone on campus knows about. I am not talking about the entertaining 7-2 thrashing the skating Dutchmen suffered at the hands ofthe RPI. I am, however, speak- ing ofthe events that took place during the game. As we all know, it is a long-lived league tradition to shower the ice with oranges af- ter the home team scores their first goal whe11 playing their rival. This is a TRADITION\. Everyone knows it is going to happen. The home team, the visiting team, the fans, and security. If everyone. knows it is going to happen, if it is a tradition, why can't the \people at the top\ allow it to happen? It's all in good fun. Are tbey afraid someone might get hurt? Let me remind you, the play- ers wear padding to protect them from a hard rubber disc. I don't think an orange will do much damage. In the dining halis throughout campus, part of the daily fruit selection is oranges. Yet, during the entire week before the RP1 hockey game, nary an orange was to be seen.. Was this just coincidence? Obviously not. The purpose behind the disappearance was quite clear. At every home hockey game, friends of and the brothers from Chi Psi stand in the \Q\, leading cheers, taunting opposing play- ers, and having a great time. They are seem- ingly the essence of school spirit and home ice advantage. Unfortunately, they are also scrutini;zed at every game by security and continually given restrictions on what they are allowed to chant. This past Saturday, I happened to be standing with those Chi Psi brothers during the hockey game. Everyone seemed to be having ago()d time and as a freshman, I en- joyed becoming engulfed by the spirit those brothers portray. Late in the second period, when U nio11 finally put the puck in the net, I too was one of the many people who threw an orange onto the ice, participating in that long-lived tradition for the first time in my Union College career. And, after experienc- ing the humor behind seeing hundreds of oranges litter the ice, I, along with numer- ous others, was promptly confronted by security and escorted out of the rink. What a great introduction to the college rivalry. I understand that throwing junk onto the ice prolongs games and makes more work for the grounds crew. However, for one game a year, you would think that those extra five minutes would be worth the years of tradi- tion behind tile oranges. Each week in the Concordiensis, numer- ous times during the day on WRUC, and through word of mouth around campus, stu• dents, visitors, and faculty alike are reminded to \come out and support the skating Dutch- men!\ Tltese games afford the school the opportunity to come together and enjoy the sense of camaraderie so many of us remem- ber from our high school years. If security and those above them continue to ham- string the students who come to support their teams, why should students continue to attend the games? We in no way are try- ing to cause trouble, but it seems as though we can do notight. Allow us a little leeway or the stands will slowly empty. This article and its author are not meant to be biased towards the Men's hockey team, hut instead is using this team to further if .. Justrate the point being made. si,gn a free agent .quarterback then Brown weuld be g(:)ne, but when was the last time that happened? If they did not sign one when the team struggled, why would they sign one after being division champs? Jets fans have even more to be unhappy about regarding this new deal. As bad as Brown has been for the Giants, lets us admit thatO' Donnell has been worse. Gang green had a good year at 9-7, and Glen Foley emerged as a possible starter. However, with him being so brittle, the Jets need a reliable backup. No team is going to pay a reserve five million a year, which is what O'Donnell currently robs per season. With the old salary cap, the Jets could have used a little leverage to force O'Donnell to renegotiate. If he opted not to play ball, the Jets could 'have cut him and saved a chtmk of money. Not all of the money be- cause Jet owner Leon Hess gave the former Steeler a sickening signing bonus. Now the Jets could either pay or cut O'Donnell. If they choose to part ways, then Ray Lucas is Foley's backup and no one heeds to remem- ber that he. is not ready for the pros (check Detroit game). The quarterback situation is not the only problem. Free agents wiU begin to demand more money because the league has more and they will feel underpaid. When was the last time a fan argued that a player was un- derpaid.? About the same time as the birth of free agency some30 years ago. The higher contracts will lead to higher tickets, aRd in the end the fans will pay more. The days of $1 00+ football tickets are quickly approach- ing. CBS and the other networks are to blame for the cap problems in New York, and other similar problems around the league. By boy- cotting the networks broadcast and sub- scribing to Direct TV NFL prime tiCket, the network will lose a ton in ratings-based ad- vertising revenues. Next time when TV con- tracts are being issued, networks will think twice. The contracts are further reasons why sports is a business and the eye is placed over team .. I took the Dutchmen last weekend and .__lost the 15 U dollars. This week it is time to get serious. Take the Packers and the under (50) for 15 U's. Also take all the favorites on Sunday's cardat Aquaduct Race Track, af 10 U's per race. I got a good tip from a cab- bie and the races will be better than the big game. Total wagers for the week 130 U's. Next week: Why OTB hurts racing. Women's BasketbaU Continued from page21 Hap1ilton. This game began exactly the way Uriion had hoped as they were able to con- trol the pace of play, work the ball consis- tently inside to Oliveiri via the fast break and a pick and roll play with Kathleen Fur- long, and find dear views of the basket for the three-point shot. As the first half ticked by, Union slowly opened up a nine point lead and was able to contain a confused and disheartened Hamilton team. However, numerous halftime adjustments by Hamilton along with an injury to team captain and on court leader Leah Oliveiri opened the door for Hamilton and ultimately allowed them to earn the victory. With just over twelve minutes remaining . in the second half and Union leading by six, Oliveiri leapt for a rebound, collided with a Hamilton player, and fell hard to the floor, landing on her right knee and forcing her to sit on the bench for the remainder of the game. This sudden shock to Union put them in a funk they never recovered from. While Mindy Cohen, Shawn McQuade, and Shanna Putnam all filled in well in replace- ment of Oliveiri, it seemed as though the team could not find the basket on offense and could not stop Hamilton on defense. Their nine point halftime lead quickly dis- appeared, turning into an eight point deficit and the team suffered yet another close loss. With ten games complete, however, the team now realizes it is time to take their game to the next level and make adjustments to their philosophies. While the fast-break of- fense often results in easy baskets, the fast- break is not always there, but the idea of an up tempo offense sometimes forces players into unnecessary shots. Coach Burt does not want her t~am to not take shots, but she wants them to begin to realize when to take advantage ofthefast break opportunity and when to be patient and wait for teammates to get into position and run an offense. Although this week did not post the vic- tories the team may have been looking for, they continued to learn, something any young team needs to do. With five days before theirnext game, the team will be able to take a step back, look at the progress they have made, see where they need to go; and practice hard to get to that point. It is this philosophy that ultimately will provide the positive results this team is so desperate for. ~onnen'slfockey Continued From Page21 with only three minutes remaining. Stein in the second period. To add to the troubles, starting point The stressful week has not discouraged . guard Kelly Joh11son racked up four fouls in the team but made them realize what they the first half, thus limiting her playing time need to work on. \On Friday we played re- in the second half and passing the point · ally well, but it was a long weekend of games, guard responsibiHties offto Erin McNamara, which was very tiring for us. We still need a Sara 0' Arcangelo, and Kathleen Furlong. lot of work on basic skills, especially the The bright spot for Union in this game breakouts, and connecting on open oppor- was D' Arcangelo as she finally found the tuf!.ities,\ Stein said .. confidence in her three point shot, hitting Coach Tim Benson was once again three of her seven attempts. Coach Burt pleased with his team's play and is excited says, \I think Sara has a beautiful shot. I for this week's games. \Having three game~ just wish she would he less unselfish and in three days is pretty tough. But despite take the shot when she has the opening. If the score against Sacred Heart, who was ~ Sara will do that, we will have another po- very good and a competitive team, every~ tent weapon on offense.\ Unfortunately, one came out and played hard, and t left the however, D' Arcangelo's points could not rink from Sacred Heart very happy with ou1 help Union surmount the deficitthey fell into · performance,'' he said. i

Why Dave Brown Should Buy CBS Stock by Chris Leone Sports Editor Let me face the facts: CBS is never going to offer me a job. If by chance they offered 111e a j()h, as a good football fan I would have to dedine the position. As you are all well aware ofby now, the NFL is returning to the \eye\ network. Af- ter a bidding war against rival incumbent NBC, CBS won the rights to broadcast AFC games for the next t;:ight years. While this news will mean higher profits for the net- work, it will niean trouble for the league. CBS will do a great job broadcasting the games. A group of ex-commentators and tile addition of some big name analysts (i.e. NBC' free agent Phil Simms) should make the AFC ~ames (although not as interesting as tile NrC) bearable. With Jim Nantzanchor- iilg, the pregame hour, the network has donL' itsc Ir we II, and star It: flO .tfinutes should rc- tllrn to rh._. top llfthl' sacred Nielsen ratings. So \\ h: should football fans be angry at the ncl\1 urk') The ~Ill'>\\ er is based on ~abry cap ntnnh .. ·:s anJ relic~ heavily on the dam- agL' 1lw n~·'~ deal\\ ill '' n:ak on the free agent marh:t. Last year the salary cap for NFL teams came 111 at approximately 44 million dollars. While this number is not exceedingly high, it is now going to increase. The new deal bet\.veen Cl3S and the NFL is worth a re- port~d 500 million per season. Over the eight year span of the agreement, the total intake for the league is a bit over four billion dol- lars, a 13 3 ~-u increase over the previous deal with NBC. A portion of the new deal will go to the teams, thus in acc()rdance to a deal with the player's union the cap increases. Why should one care iftllc cap increases? A !I that necJs to be said fl)r Ne\\ York fans is the bumbling quartcrba~ks Dave Bro\\n and Neil O'Donndl. At the cnJ of this season it looked as though Bro\\ n \\ ould h~ headed awa: from the Giants for cap rca sua s. The form cr first round pick current!: earn~. t '.':om i!: ion a: ear and ~ incc the ( ii:mb w~rc rig,ht on the cap at the end of the :ear. Bro1vn seemed like a li\cly cut in order for the leams to sign rook- ies. Now thanks to CBS. it is possible that Brown will remain a Giant. Here is how the plan for Brown to remain works. Let us say the cap goes up by I 0% to an estimated 48 million. \The Giants would have roughly four mil lim to sign draft picks, and free agents. Si nee the Giants e not knO\vn for free agent s~cnding, the salary cap is no longer an issue. If the Giants could Fans or No Fans? by David Weiner What exactly is this school trying to do'.> I mean. \\ould tht: administration rather the st uJenb not t:ver come out to support the lJ n itm sports teams'> Would they be hap- pier if instead of attending hockey or bas- ketball games this winter, we sta)eJ in out dorms and studied, or went out to parties earlier in the night and drank even more? What is the administration trying to do? These questions stem from events that t()ok place last Saturday night, events 1 am st.uc everyone on campus knows about. I am not talking about the entertaining 7-2 thrashing the skating Dutchmen suffered at the hands of the RPI. I am, however, speak- ing ofthe events that took place during the game. As we all know, it is a long-lived league tradition to shower the ice with oranges af- terthe home team scores their first goal when pi aying their rival. This is a TRADITION. Everyone knows it is going to happen. The home team, the visiting team, the fans, and security. If everyone knows it is going to http pen, if it is a tradition, why can't the .. J>eople at the top\ allow it to happen? It's all in good fun. Are they afraid someone might get hurt? Let me remind you, the play- ers ~car padding to proted them from a hard rubber disc. I don't think an orange will do much damage. In the dining halls throughout campus, put of the daily fruit sckt.:tion i~ orange~. Yd, during the entire week before the RPI ho-ckey game, nary an orange was to be seen. Was this just ~.:oincidenct:? Obviously not. Tl1e purpose behind the disappearance was quite clear. At every home hockey game, friends of an<! the brothers from Chi Psi stand in the \Q\, leading cheers, taunting opposing play- ers. and having a great time. They are seem- ingly the essence of school spirit and home ice advantage. Unfortunately, they are also scrutinized at every game by security and continually given restrictions on \Vhat they arc allmved to chant. This past Saturda), i happened to be standing with those ChiPs i brothers during the hockey game. Everyt)ne seemed to be having a good time and as a fi·eshman. len- joyed becoming engulfed by the spirit those brothers portray. Late in tl1e second period, when Union finally put the puck in the net, I too was one of the many people who threw an orange onto the ice, participating in that long-lived tradition forth~ first time in my Union College career. And, after experienc- ing the humor behind seeing hundreds of oranges litter the ice, I, along with numer- ous others, was promptly confronted by security and escorted out of the rink. What a great introduction to the co Uege rivalry. I understand that throwi11gjunk onto the ice prolongs games and makes more work for the grounds crew. However, for one game a year, you would think thatthose extra five minutes would be worth tile years of tradi- tion behind the oranges. Each week in the Concordiensis, numer- ous times during the da)' on WRUC, and through word of mouth around campus, stu- dents, visitors, and faculty a[ ike are reminded lu \~:orne out and support the skating Dutch- men!\ These games afford the school the opportunity to come toge1h.er and enjoy the sense of camaraderie so many of us remem- ber from our high school years. If security and those above them continue to ham- string the students who C<lme to suppmt their teams, why should students continue to attend the games? We ill no way are try- ing to cause trouble, but i 1 seems as though we can do no right. Allow us a little leeway or the stands will slowly ernpty. This article and its author are not meant to be biased toward'l the lvte11 's hockey team, but instead is using this team to further il- lustrate the point being muJc. sign a free agent quarterback then Brown would be gone, but when was the last time that happened? If they did not sign one vvhen the team struggled, why would they sign one <tfl~r being division champs? kts f~ms have even more to be unhappy about regarding this new deal. As bad as Bnm n has b,cn for the Gianb. lets us admit that O'Donnell has hecn worse Gang green had a g.ood year at 9 7, ;.md G kn Foley emerg.ed as 3 possible starter. llowever, with him being so brittle, the Jets need a reliable backup. No team is going to pay a reserve five million a year, which is what O'Donnell currently robs per season. With the old salary cap. the Jets could have used a little leverage to force O'Donnell to renegotiate. If he opted not to play ball, the Jets could have cut him and saved a chunk ofmo11ey. Not all ofthe money be- cause Jet owner Leon !less gave the former Steeler a sickening signing bonus. Now the Jets coml<d either pay or cut O'Donnell. If they choose to part ways, then Ray Lucas is Foley's backup and 1110 one needs to remem- ber that he is not ready for the pros (check Detroit game). The quarterback situation is not the only problem. Free agents will begin to demand more money because the league has more and they w iH feel underpaid. When was the last time a fan argued that a player was un- derpaid? AboHt the same time as the birth of free agency some 30years ago. The higher contracts will lead to higher tickets, m1d in the end the fans will pay more. The days of $100+ football tickets are quickly approach- ing. CBS and the other networks are to blame for the cap problems in New York, and other similar problems around the league. By boy- cotting the networks broadcast and sub- scribing to Direct TV NFL prime ticket, the network will lose a ton in ratings-based ad- vertising revenues. Nex. t time when TV con- tra~.:ts are being issued. net\\orks will think I\\ ice. Th~ (OiilldCh dr~: rurthcr r..:a:-.un\ \\ hy sport~ i;; a businc:-.~ <11ld th..: ..:_, <.: i~ pl<iu . .:J over team. I took the Dutchmen last weekend and lost the 15 U dollars. This week it is time to get serious. Take the Packers and the under (50) for I 5 U 's. A !so take ali the favorites on Sunday's card at Aquaduct Race Track, at I 0 U's per race. I got a good tip from a cab- bie and the races will be better than the big game. Totalwagersfortheweek 130U's. Next week: Why OTB hurts racing Women's Basketball Continued from page 21 Hamilton. This game began exactly the way Union had hoped as they were able to con- trol the pace of play, work the ball consis- tently inside to Oliveiri via the fast break and a pick and roll play with Kathleen Fur- long. and find clear viev,-s of the basket for the three-point shot. As the first half ticked by, Union slowly opened up a nine point lead and was able to contain a con fused and disheartened Hamilton team. However. numerous halftime adjustments by Hamilton along with an injury to team captain and on court leader Leah Oliveiri opened the door for Hamilton and ultimately allowed them to earn the victory. With just over twelve minutes remaining in the second half and Union leading by six, Oliveiri leapt for a rebound, collided with a Hamilton player, and fell hard to the floor, landing on her right knee and forcing her to sit on the bench for the remainder of the game. This sudden shock to Union put them in a funk they never recovered from. While Mindy Cohen, Shawn McQuade, and Shanna Putnam all filled in well in replace- ment of Oliveiri, it seemed as though the team could not find the basket on offense and could not stop Hamilton on defense. Their nine point halftime lead quickly dis- appeared, turning into an eight point deficit with only three minutes remaining. To add to the troubles, starting point guard Kelly Johnson racked up four fouls in the first half~ thus limiting her playing time in the second half and passing the point guard responsibilities offto Erin McNamara, Sara D'Arcangelo, and Kathleen Furlong. The bright spot for Union in this game was D'Arcangelo as she finally found the confidence in her three point shot, hitting three of her seven attempts. Coach Burt says, \1 think Sara has a beautiful shot. I just wish she would be less unselfish and take the shot when she has the opening. If Sara will do that, we will have another po- tent weapon on offense.\ Unfortunately, however, D' Arcangelo's points could not help Union sunnount the deficit they fell into and the team suffered yet another close loss. With ten games complete, however, the team now realizes it is time to take their game to the next level and make adjustments to their philosophies. While the fast-break of- fense often results in easy baskets, the fast- break is not always there, but the idea of an up tempo offense sometimes forces players into unnecessary shots. Coach Burt does not want her team to not take shots, but she wants them to begin to realize when to take advantage of the fast break opportunity and when to be patient and wait for teammates to get into position and run an offense. Although this week did not post the vic- tories the team may have been looking for, they continued to learn, something any young team needs to do. With five days bef<lre their next game. the team will be able to take a step back, look at the progress they have made, see where they need to go, and practice hard to get to that point. It is this philosophy that ultimately will provide the positive results this team is so desperate for. Women's Hockey Continued From Page21 Stein in the second period. The stressful week has not discouraged the team but made them realize what they need to work on. \On Friday we played re- ally well, but it was a long weekend of games, which was very tiring for us. We still need a lot of work on basic skills, especially the breakouts, and connecting on open oppor- tunities,\ Stein said. Coach Tim Benson was once again pleased with his team's play and is excited forth is week's games. \Having three games in three days is pretty tough. But despite the score against Sacred Heart, who was a very good and a competitive team, every- one came out and played hard, and I left the rink from Sacred Heart very happy with our performance,\ he said.

I I Special thanks to the Sports Information Department . . . Women's. Indoor Track (0·1) Date Team & Location Score or_ Time Sat., 1/1.?/98 @Hamilton ,67-47 Loss Sat., 1/31/98 @Wesleyan 1:00PM Sat., 2/14/98 UCAAMeet@ RPI 11 :OOAM Sat., 2/21/98 @ Hamilton lnvy 1:00PM Sat.; 2/28/98 State Meet@ Union TBA (A# After a Team Denotes a League Game) Source: llttp:l/www.un lon.edufiHODA Y/SPO RTS/Winter9791I.htm Sat, 1,1/22/97 Sat., H/29/97 1215/9./-12/6/97 UCAA Championships @ RPI 85-57 Loss 99-83 Loss Union 805, Hamilton 698.5, Rochester528.5, William Smith 415, RPI 381, Skid more, 272, St. Lawrence 269.5, Clarkson 143.5 . ·. . ·. .. ' ' ...... ·. .I. ... . . . . . ·.· ... · .. · .. . . . . . . . . . . . ' . . .. ·· Two MioltopCollege Students Can t Be Wrong! ' J-,, .,. SCHJCKSlJPERHOOPSRETURNS TO UNION COLLBGE. •. . \ . : ·-. \' . . '; .~- i· ~: '~ . /' . • .. <- • ' ' • • • ' • - ., -· • - • During 'the· past decade, more than two million college students have gone to the hoop in Schick Super Hoops. The largest Jon 3 b~sketbalfto~ament in the world returns to Union on February 7.at 12:00 noon in tbe Field House. For more it).fohnation contact Jason Bendekovoc at the Intramural Office (x6119) COME INTO MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! · - 1 041 state· Street - 382-5776 ... ~~ -

,• . ....... . ' - . - . ' . ' Sat., 11/22/97 vs. Wesleyan 85-b 7 Loss Sat., 11/29/97 99-83 Loss 78-62 Win Fri., 12/5197 Fri., 1/9/9 8 54-48 Win 105-69 Loss Tue., 1 vs. Utica 79 Fri., 1/23/98 Hobart# 8 Sat., 1/24/98 @Hamilton# 4.00PM Tue., 1/27/98 vs. Hartwick 8:00PM Fri., 1/30/98 8:00PM Sat., 1/31 # 4:00PM Wed., 2/4/98 8 OOPM Sat., 2/7/98 @ Kings Point e., 2/10/98 @ RPI # 8 OOPM Fri., 2/13/98 @ Skidmore f:t 8 OOPM 2: OPM Sat., vs 4 OOPM Thu., 2/26198 bury 7:00PM Tue., 2/17/98 @ Middlebury Fri., 2120/98 @St. Lawrence# @ Sat., 11/1197 Un1on 114. Hartwick 106. Spnngfielcl 90, Union Relays NYU 80, New Paltz 38. RPI 26, Sat., 11/15/97 Sk1dmore. 16. Vassar 2 Sat., 11122/97 @ Rochester 147-46 Win @Amherst Un1on 805, 12/5/97-1216/97 Hamilton 698 5. Rochester 528 5. 12/5/97-12/6/97 UCAA Championships William Sm1th 415, @ RPI RPI 381. Skidmore. 272. St. Lawrence Sat., 1/10/98 Women's Indoor Track (0-1) 8 269 5. Clarkson 143 ., Pate. _. : - _ r·e~'n'! & Lo~ation ·Scor~ or Tim_e: Wed., 1/21/98 6:00PM Sat., 1/17/98 @Hamilton 67-47 Loss 5-64. 2:00PM Sat., 1/31/98 @ Wesleyan 1:OOPM Sat, 1/17/98 @ Hartwick 138-103 Win Sat., 2/14/98 UCAA Meet@ RPI 11 :OOAM Wed., 1/21/98 @ RPI M Sat., 2/21/91> @ Hamilton lnvy 1:OOPM 8 @ le bury 2:00PM vs. Hamilton 2:00PM Sat., 2/28/91> State Meet@ Union TBA . ·_- -Special th.anks.to _the s·port~- - . . · Information Department · - (A# After a Team Denotes a League Game) Source: http :1/I'IW VI. union .edu/UTO DAY/SPORT S/Willter9798 .h lm . ' . ., . . . . Two Million College Students Can't Be Wrong! SCHICKSUPERHOOPSRETURNS TO UNION COLLEGE During tlle past decade, more than two million college students have gone to the hoop in Schick Super Hoops. The largest3 on 3 basketball tournament in the world returns to Union on February 7 at 12:00 noon in the Field House. For more information contact.Jason Bendekovoc at the Intramural Office (x6l19) COME INTO MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! Schenectady - 1 041 State Street - 382-5776 ... r ·-

Men's Basketball ''Robs'' . . . Union College Spotlight

Men's Basketball ''Robs'' Union College Spotlight '

' ' \ • ' ' • • ' • • •• ' \ ' ', ' ' < • ' • < • ' '.': ' • ' • • ' • I :• • • ' ' • < ~· ' '' The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 ~~'•'-'- ,\\~1-o,. •• ,,,, .. ~ '',\'/\'~~;~·;~ •·•~•:-·• \ ' ,(~>\.:~\', ••~•'• ~'' i 0 ·~ ' ,~\·~~ '•\\ ~. '\''' ''h\-~'''\-''''-\'Voo~•J•'•I. \\\.0..'-'''\''~\~v~•\-\''::•M~ •.·:~>'\\'''''' •~1'~.,..,-~\';.\'\\\''\'~\\\\'\~•<l<•ri\*-''-\\\'lt>\\\\-'•\-•'-'~•\'\\\''~''~'> .~,_,_,.,.,~v,f.,.~/'--•-.-~ .. -.t. ... ~v.~'<>,-'\'~t~'-'-\A--'\\'\'~'<-W- -·, ,;:._',, ~ J- ~~ ·..r nun,~; 1 _' ,\ v II : .iJ!ll h( r /-J _ . . ~;r_ !'l:.'JI~:u; 1Zh. : .,.,_>,.. ·t'llT - . ·. ~~_,r, ~;;-;.r-.. :!'.J\ · hi:'J~ .,. ....... - ... ~ ... ...........,.,_,,,_.~-~-- ... ·-~~~·· .. h- > -· - ·~ ~- \• - • • H • • • < • ,- • r~ 0 ' ',\ • by Lisa Pertoso Staff Writer !he dry weekend of January 23- 25 intended to promote alcohol awareness and responsible drink- ing was controversially effective. The· reason for the dry weekend accor-ding to Dean Alford, was in i- tiated by the three recent visits by freshm~n to Ellis Hospital for ex- cessive alcohol consumption. AJ~ though no parties occurred in fra- · ternities Friday or Saturday night, just a few steps off campus stu- dents congregated to consume al- cohol at both bars and apartments. Across Nott Street, Geppetto's bat and restaurant was crowded with Union students seeking a place to drink and to relax. The students were not just upperclass- men but many freshmen were among those who poured pitchers Qf beer into their friends' cups and Qrdered mixed alcoholic bever- ages. The scene at Geppet~o's re- flected any fraternity party minus the loud music and dancing. Owner- and propri etCJf· 'Of David MeguerdicllianfrC Geppetto 's Restaurant on Nott Street experiencul a heavier-than,-Jwrmal crowtl on Saturday ·~right. Geppetto 's Paul Uchorat re- marked that they were very .busy this weekend and said, \We saw the effects ofthe dry weekend with more Union students than usual.'l He also expressed his disagree- ment with the administration de~ cided to m~ke the campus dry per- manently. \Most students come to Geppetto 's fo.r a coupleofbeers and something to eat before a big party on campus. Ifs safer for the students to be on campus and closer to home around two or tllree in the morning. We monitor ev- erything that goes on and have never had any problem with Union students drinking too much.l' Rupsis Bar was anoth~r place students went to drink off campus. The owner's son Don Rupsis said, \I wasn't here Saturday night, but Friday night I noticed more Union students drinking and having fun at other places instead of fraterni- ties.\ Most studer1ts, when asked how .they felt about the dry weekend, said they did not see any reason for the administration to penalize the whole campus for the actions of a few students. ''lfthe freshmen are drinking too much, maybe the administration should make stricter rules about alcohol in freshmen dorms,\ sug- gested one sophomore as a solu- tion to the over-consumption of alcohol. The overall feelings of students consented that the fraternities were not to blame because most people drink before they even arrive at part-ies, and each individual should be responsible for how much he or she drinks. While on Campus, Alternative Events Prevailed by Anjali Balasingham Staff Writer ful \open mit\ night, where stu~ dents were given an audience to play music and read poetry. \Air Force One\ showings at the cam- pus center each drew uncharacler- ing up last Friday night. In the Greek community, there was a general ambivalence to- wards the administration's deci- sion. Many Greeks supported the the administration is not going to let fraternities serve alcohol, then they shouldn't allow Chef's to serve alcohol or the Rathskellat to serve beer. It's a contradiction, and .,.....,.,...,_,_...,.........,......,.,.,.._,----...--...,.,.----. ide a beh ind it, but As a result of the recent hospi- talization of three int-oxicated Union students, the admin- istration decided to close all fraternities to registered parties last weekend. The three most recent incidents, albeit the immediate impe- tus for the decision, were not isolated events. Th.is academic year has already brought a total of eleven trips to Ellis for students consuming excessive amounts of alcohol, and the line was drawn to send out the message that such a sta- tistic is unacceptable. How- ever, the decision and its outcome met with mixed reviews from both indepen- dents and Greeks. were dissatisfied with the way in which it . was carried out. Inter- 1::;:::::;~:~;;;:;~~~ fratern it_y Council (IFC) President Chris Brantigan pointed out that \the administra- . tion did not in any way · try to inform the stu- dents about what was going on, why they were doing it, and that was the biggest prob-. !em. All weekend I had people coming up to me ask illg me why : ·this was happening ... ·Also, I th:ink the fact · that News Channel 6 administration should inform the students better of [their goals].\ Even though fraternities weren't allowed to have registered parties, they were allowed to have other social events, many of which were successful in drawing cr.owds. The Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. for instance, hosted a band Saturday night to play live musk. Eric Houle, Presi- dent of FIJI, said of the evening, \People started showing up about I 0, and it was packed with people for about an hour and a half. .. It went all right. It was nice to have an alter- native, I think it gave the school a little break. And it was nice to see people somewhat sober and still having a good time.\ Houle added that the topic of fra- The absence of frat par- . showed up blew. ternities and alcohol re- ties was compounded by things Qut Qfpropor- mains a \touchysubject ... l the fact that the weatheron tion.\ Brantigan con- think [the decision] was a Friday night was not con- tinued to make a point ''\'·:~•• good thing, but I'm still a ducive to driving condi- about the ambiguity little confused as to what tions. Many students were. behind the decision. they were trying to accom- unable to leave campus, \Whattheadministra- MeJ~IIer:dicl~ianrrc plish.\ As for how and even though a lot of Fiji hosted (I. band as an alternative Saturday night. tion wastrying to do,\ Tire Dutch Pipers sang at Psi U's U· 'Dt!JI-/Yll!C Saturday's event rated drinkingstillwenton,much atten- isticaJly large crowds. The Soci- he said, \was make students sit it makes it look like tlte compared with other parties, tion was focused on various \non- ety and their Coffee House con- back and re fleet on the w ho.le administration's specifically trying Houle said, \You can never have alcoholic\ events at Union. The Psi tinued to attract large numbers of tiling, which I agree with to a good to punish us, and that they don't the turnout of a [regular] party. But Upsilon fraternity had a success- students, with a huge crowd show- [extent]. But my feeling is that if trust us. I think that next time the continued on page 4 Students go to Cuba Page 3 A atE Sculpture at Nott Page 15 Sports: Basketball Wins Again Page 17

The Studt!nt Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 .. '\' ... ---- \- --- - ,.,,!Ji··. \ c) :; ·· fPrObitiOOWeekenaspectai-coverage ... l Union Students Seek Off-Campus Places to Drink b:y Lisa Per1oso Staff Writer Tile dry weekend of Janmry 23- 25 intended to promote aBc oho I awa:Feness and responsible drink- iAg 'Was C()ntroversially effective. The· rease>n for the dry weekend accoFding to Dean Alford, was ini- tiated by the three recen1 visits by frcshn:n tn Ellis llospii:al fur t:\- c~~s iv t ak.:ohol CO!l'>UIHflliN 1>1. /\1- thoti~ll RH) parties LKCUrr~t.f in fra- tern it·i l'S. Frida) or Saturch; 11 ig,ht. just a f~-:1'. stL·ps ofT can!pll~ >hJ- J~nb (;lJlngregakd to cur1sum e al- cohol at b<Jth bars anJ apartrncnt:-. A<:ross Not! Street, Geppdto's bar and r~staurant was crowded with Uni()n students seeking a place!{) c!rink and to rel<lx. Tht: \tudrnts ''L\n: not just U[l[)~rclas~- 111\.'11 lmt Jnan) freshn1~n 1.st:rc am()ng tho>e who poure<l piltchers of beer into their friends\ cups and ordered mixed alcoholic bever- ages. Tl!e scene at Geppetto' s re- flected any fraternity party minus the 10ucl music and dancing,. Owner and proprietor of David !\1eguerdichianffC G~ppelt(} •s Restaurallt on Not! Street expr!rienced a heavier-than-normal aowd on Saturday night. Geppetto~s Paul Lichorat re- He also expressed his disagree- and something to eat before a big marked t!Jat they were very busy ment with the administration de- party on campus. It's saferfor the this weekend and said, \We saw cided to make the campus dry per- students to be on cam pus and the effects of the dry weekend w~th manently. \Most students come closer to home around two or three more Union students than usua 1.~' to Geppetto 's for a couple of beers in the morn in g. We monitor ev- erything that goes on and have never had any problem with Union students drinking too much.\ Rupsis Bar was another place students went to drink off campus. The owner's son Don Rupsis said, \I wasn't here Saturday night, but Friday night I noticed more Union students drinking and having fun at (Jther places instead of fratcrni- t il\s.\ 1\lo'>t -,tutknt\. \\hen a-,h.eJ ho\\ th~.:; ll·lt <~bout thl..' dr) ,,,_,,.h,,·nd. \.tid tlh\) llid 11\lt .,,., • .Ill) 1'\.'tl'l.\fl fi1r tl1,· <tdrnini,trati~>n tn p~.·n.tli/\.' thl: \\link campu-. fpr tht· <tcliPih uf a k\\ ~tudl'llh. \'I fthc frl·~hm~.·n .tr~ Jrinh.ing ttH 1 mud1, ma) b~ th~ admini~tration should make stricter rules about alcohol in fn:shmen dorms.\ sug- ge~ted ont: sophomore as a solu- tinn Ill thl..' ll\L'r·nlll,ulllptilln (\f alcohoL The overall feelings of students cor1-;ented that the fraternitie.., \\-ere not to blame because most people drink before they even arrive at parties, and each individual should be responsible for ho-w much he or she drinks. While on Campus, Alternative Events Prevailed lly AIIjali Balasingh:am Staff Writer ful \open m ic\ night, where stu- dents were given an audience to play mu>ic and read poetry. \Air Force One~· showings at the cam- pus center each drew uncharacter- ing up last Friday night. the administration is not going to administration should infom1 the In the Greek community, there let fraternities serve alcohol, then students better of [their goals].\ was a general ambivalence to- they shouldn't allow Chet's to Even though fraternities weren't wards the administration's deci- serve alcohol or the Rathskellarto allowed to have r~gisll:rcd parties. sion. Many Greeks supported the serve beer. It's a contradiction, and the) \',.ere allowed to h<n e other -------------------, ide a he h in d it. hut !'7\\'m-:~~·~~77\''?77'~:-:':'7::'~~~7'11!'?:\fl::Y.'~ soc i a I events. man v of v,ere dissatisfied with ,.,. h ich '' er~ successfu I in As a reslllt of the recent hospi- talizati()rl of three intoxicated llni(lll stu<lents, the adm in- istration d~cided to close all· fraternities to registered· parties last weekend. Th~ thn:~ n1ust recent inc ide11ts, · ulbt:it tile .irmnediate imp~­ tus for the decision, \H:r<:. not i-;olateJ e\~nts. This the ,.,ay in whiclt it drawing crowds. The Phi wascarriedout. Inter- Ciamma Delta fraternit~. fraternit) Council for instanc.:. hosted J hand (IFC) Prl..'siJ~nt Chris Saturda: night to pia: Ii-.e Brantigan pointl!u c.Jut music. Fric Jlnulc. Presi- that \the aJmini~tra- dent nf FIJI. ~aiJ of the <.KaJnniL ) cur has alrc<td} tiondid not in an) ,._a) C\ening. \Pct)rk' started brl1ug,llt <1 llltal of dr.:n111 • tr) to in form the ~tu- -.hm\ ing up .tbnut I 0 .• md trip~ to IJI i~ for ~tuJnlls dl!nb about what \a~ it \\a~ r.tch·d \ith pt'l)pk con >tllllitl g e:\cn~i H: going on. \\h) th~:) for about an lwur .md .1 amL>Uilbl)fakolwl,<mtlthc wcredoingit,anJthat half. It \\1.'!1t .t!l ri~ht It line Iva~ Lira\\ n to sl!nd ullt. \\as the bigge!>t prub- \\th nict· to ha\ can .!Iter thernt.:~~a~t:thabud1 a~ta:- !em. !\II \~~d.cnJ I nati\e. I thin~ it gtl\L' tht• tistiLisunClL:c.:t:ptabk I low- had people coming up ~c.:hool a littk br.:ak. :\nd it ~:vcr, the decision and its to me asking me why was nice to see peL)pll\ outcome met with mix.e<l this was happening... somewhat sober and still reviews fl·()m both indeperl- Also, I think the fact having a good time.\ I Iouk dents and Greeks. that News Channel 6 added that the topic of fra- Tlle absence of frat par- sh()wed up blew ternities and alcohol re- ties 1vas <:om pounded b:y things out of prop or- mains a \touchy subject. .. I the fact that the weather 011 tion.\ Brantigan con- think [the decision] \\as a Friday night was not con:- tinued to make a point good thing, but I'm still a Juc iv e to driving con<li- about the ambiguity I itt le con fused as to \hat tion~. tv1a11y students wer·e behind the decision. they were trying to accom- unable to leave campus, Ka!oeStefanikffC \Whattheadministra- DavidMeguerdicltian/Tf plish.\ As for how and even though a lot ()f FijihostedabamlasanaltemativeSaturtiaynight. tionwastryingtod<l,\ TlteDutci!PiperssallgatPsiU'sOpell-MicNight. Saturdav's event rated drinking>till wenton, mucl'l!atteH- istically large crowds. The So·ci- he said, \was make students sit it makes it look like the compared \vith other parties, tion .\vasf<Ocusedonvari{)u~\non- ety anJ tnt:ir Coffee House con- back and renect on the ''hole adrninistration'sspedfkall) tl)ing llouk said, \You (an ne\l.'rh:l\e akt>holil:'\e\ents at Union_ 'flte Psi tinuetl to attract large numbers of thing, which I agree vvith to a good to punish us, and that they don't tlH:tunMrt l)fa [regular] rart) But Upsilon fraternity had <..1 sll!ccess- students, 1vith a huge crowd show- [extent]. But my feeling is that if trust us. I think that next time the l'vntinu~:d vnpugc 4 ------~--~·------- . - -- ~--------- -·· ·- -- -- .. ------- --·- -- - ·- - - --. --- _, -- --- ------------ ----·--·---- News: Aa:E Spomu~ Students go to Cuba Sculpture at Nott Basketball Wins Again Page3 Page 15 Page 17 --- ------ - < ··~- ---.

January 29, 1998 ' .. '· ... - • .f::.·~~ • ~ \;-:-, . --~. ·, ., ... .. ... ' ... . - _·, .. ' Stan Moore and the, S•ating Dp.tch1nen can rest for a .tnolTlent : .before heading into Ii€Ac sd,retch iUJJ. · See $tory; page 17.

i Page 2 • The Student Newspaper-of Union College Since 18 77 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Jonathan Gasthalter and Frank Rossi EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Campus News. Campus Security Report ONION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTM·ENT WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 1998 THROUGH SUNDAY, ~A.Nl!·ARY 25, 199.8 David Blatt Amy DiBattista . EXECUTIVE EDITORS Lori Green ' DA. TE/TIME 'LOCATION Kim Rohback ARTS & ENTER .. EDJTOJ?S : Christopher Leone MANAGING EDITOR Robert Hagopian. COMPUTER MANAGER . I :3() PM Campus Grounds THEFT: Student'sp~trke;d car ei3ltered. Cash and cassette tape taken. No evidence of forced entry. AQUAINTANCE RAPE: Inve~tigation of incident that occurred during June, 1997. Originally reported as a theft. Recent foll0w up investigation revealed rape incident. Suspect was a vi·sitor on campus and met the victim at a so.cial event. Suspect has been idenHfied. Victim cl10se not to pursue crimina:! cha~ges. Suspect has been warned t0 remain off carnpu.s subjec't to arrest. Peter Simon OPINIONS EDITOR Michael DeMicco Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITORS Michelle Tham · · FEATURES EDITOR Aaron Braunstein David Meguerdichian PHOTO EDITORS Erika Mancini Christopher Leone SPORTS EDITOR . EDITORIAL CARTOONIST 8:03PM Art Annex · SECURITY HAZARD: Lock on entry door rendered .inoperable. Life Safety Violation Notice filed_ SAFETY HAZARD: Odorofs~~toke in the building caused by faulty flue. Urgent work order filed for repair. Liam Joynt WORLD NEWS EDITOR Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Victoria Hargreaves · SCIENCE & TECHEDITOR Jennifer Pelose COPY EDITOR . PHOTOGRAPHERS: Paul D' Annibale, Rkk Lederer, Sloan Miller, Cory Silken, Kate Stefanik, Maura Woessner. STAFF: Matt Aronowitz, Anjali Balasingham, I<elen Barr, Harmah Blum, TracyBoriskin, Jamie Chandler,Jay Connelly ,Shana Dangelo, . Jim DeWan, Jason Everett, David Kay, Adrian MacLean, Connor McKenzie, Pike Mody, Nick Papanickolas, Lisa Pertoso, Lee Polikoff, Aileen Quigley, Eugene Schultz, Neha Shah, Rebecc~ ThyressQn, David Weiner, Maura Wittboid. · · Fox North Nott Memorial F:IUI>A V, JANUARY 23, 1998: 12:20 AM Ca~pus Grounds .(}:()6 PM ~ 1 :4& i>'M 1:40AM 1:55AM 2:25AM l :()0 PM ~:16 PM New Entry R.oad Davidson Davidson Residence Hall Union & Gillespie University Place Fox House Davidson South Hickok Parking Area BURGLARY/THEFT: Person(s) entered residence and stole kegs of beer. Suspects fled when disc()vered by residents. SPD called for assistmice. One suspect apprehended {)ff catnpus and identified as a student. Conduct Cllarges filed. Charges filed with SPD. THEFT: Safety advisory sign for:- catwalk stairway stolen. TI:IEFT: Unknownperson(s) entered unlocked campus safety car and stole metal tile holder containing campus parking tickets. VANDALISM: Campus safety officer observed two suspects breaking road 'hazard Vlarning sig11.. S.uspects fled. One suspect lo~atecl and identified as a student Conduct Charges filed. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Ur:lknown person(s} entered student's unlocked room and stole: the room fire extinguisher. The extinguisher-was discharged in hal Jway and left damaged outside of the building. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATrON: ltoor.n fire extinguisher 'dis charged. Life Safety Violation N()iic.e filed. STUDENT RELATIONS: Assist with disagreement between room!Jlates, DlSORDERLY CONDUCT~ St11dents involved in physical altercation between themselves. c~mpus safety officers inter- vened. No injuries reported. Comluct Charges filed. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: SPU was called to an offcampus residence on complaint of noise. ()ne student was arrested. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Residents reported a disturbance in hallway. Responding officers fOlJitd that unknown person(s) had. dumped bathroom cont~iners all ov-erthehallway. VANDAUSM: Large window in ]Q'Wer st~irwell broken. VAN OAUSM: Alumna's parked car~ was forcibly entered (window broken). Attempt was m~t:de to remove stereo. Dash board was damaged during attempt- ()ccurred between 8:35PM- 9:16PM Keeping \U\ Safe Have you or anyone you know been a victim of sexual assault/ violence at Union College? A national survey of over 6000 college students found that 42% of women students reported ·some for of senal assault, including forceab!e sexual conduc~, attempted rape~ and completed rap~ (Koss & Harvey, 19~1): These findings suggest that Union is not.exempt from these acts of violence. Unfortunately, rape occurs at Union, whether or not anyone would like to admit it. · If you or someone you know has been a victim of sexual viole11<:e, Safe S!Jace is here to help you. Safe Sp!lce offers survivors an opportunity to share their experiences i~ a confidential and supportive atmo- sphere. If you have any questions, concerns or simply need infor111ation, call tile Safe Space beeper at 1-800- 28}-2255 pin #11349 or stop by room 4048 in the College Center during ourcfficehours on Sundays from l-9))m ()r Wednesdays from I lam to l pm. ·- If you are interested in writing; copy editing, laying out, or taking photographs, attend the next meeting of The Concordiensis. Tonight at 6:30pm Or smal decic tion spec: Com tode1 tee v tem~ soun sprin. for s sou.nt ace or aged tho us ting u ofitst portet from statio hundr Forun tee. Del prese1 statio1 - p Pop toric n day w Presid for the year-o 0))mm Jan. 2. Camp1 CUSSIOI topic a ofthe, Last and all lege w Prof. ~ Patrici< sion \to tend a con fen bidden em bar~ allowe Prof. :rv: by sho1 group: Havam \was s and Spc beauty many

Page 2 • January 29, 1998 • '<!!Ire ~n.tte.nt'biensis The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenectady'~· Oldest Newspaper Jonathan Gasthalter and Frank Rossi ED!TORS-JlV-C'HIEF David Blatt Amv DiBattista EX£'( 'U71VE EDITOR5,' Christopher Leone A!A:\A.GI.\'G EDITOR Peter Simon OPINION.)' EDITOR Michael DeMicco Stephanie Slobotkin NEWS EDITORS Christopher Leone SPORT.'J EDITOR Liam Joynt WORLD NEW,)' EDITOR Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Lori Green Kim Rohback. ARTS & ENTER. EDITORS Robert Hagopian · CO.MPUTER MANAGER Michelle Tham Ft'ATURES EDITOR Aaron Braunstein David Meguerdichian PHOTO EDITOR,) Erika Mancini EDITORIAL C 'ARTOONJST Victoria Hargreaves SCIENCE!.' & TECH EDITOR Jennifer Pelose COPY EDITOR PII070UR.·II'f!ER.\J Paul D'Annibale, Rick Lederer, Sloan Miller, Cory Silken, Kate Stefanik, Maura Woessner. .\/An··. Matt Aronowitz, Anjali Balasingham, Kclen Barr, Hannah Blum, Tracy Boriskin, Jamie Chandler, Jay Connelly, Shana Dangel(), Jim DeWan, Jason Everett, David Kay, Adrian MacLean, Connor McKenzie, Pike Mody, Nick Papanickolas, Lisa Pertoso, Lee Polikoff, Aileen Quigley, Eugene Schultz, Neha Shah, Rebecca Thyresson, David Weiner, Maura Wittbold. \News 3 Science & Technology 7 Opinions & Letters 9 Features 11 Arts & Entertainment 14 Dutchmen Sports 17 · Campus News Campus Security Report UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS SAFETY D'EPARTMENT .WEEKLY INCIDENT SUMMARY MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 1998 THROUGH SUNDAY, JANUARY 25, 1998 DATE/TIME LOCATION MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 1998: 12:45 PM Richmond Lot 1:30PM Campus C irounds TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1998: 5:25AM Chi Psi 8:03 PM Art Annex WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 1998: 3:27AM Fox North I 0:10PM Nott Memorial FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 1998: 12:20 AM l 'am pus Grounds 9:06 I'M New Entry !~ oad SATl!ROAY,JANUARY 24,1998: .UO AM Davidson 1:46PM Davidson SlJNDA Y, JANUARY 25, 1998: I :06 AM Residence !!all 1:40AM 1:55AM 2:25AM I :00 PM 9:16PM llnion & Gillespie University Place Fox ]louse Davidson South II ickok Parking Ar~a INCIDENT THEFT: Stud~nt's parked car entered. Cash and cass~;.;ttl: tape taken. No evidence afforced entry. AQlJAINTANCE RAPE: Investigation ofincidcnt that occurred during June, 1997. Originally reponed as a theft. R~:cent follow up investigatiGn revealed rape incident. Suspect was a \Visitor on campus and llld the victim at a social event. Suspect has been identified. Victim chose not to pursue criminal charges. Suspect has been warned to remain off campus subject to arrest. SECURITY liAZARD: Lock on entry door rendered i11operahle. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. SAFETY HAZARD: Odor of smoke in the bui I ding caused by faulty f1ue. U rgcnt work order filed for repair. BURGLARY/THEFT: Person(s) entered residenc~: and stole kegs of beer. Suspects fled when discovered by residents. SPD called for assistance. One suspect apprehended off campus and identified as a student. Conduct Charges filed. Charges J'i led with SPD. THEFT: Safety advisory sign for catwalk stairway stolen. THEFT: Unknown person(s) entered unlocked campus sa!Cty car and stole metal file holder containing campus parking tickets. V ANDALISI\1: Campus safety officer observed two Sllspccts breaking road hazard warning sign. Suspects tkd. One suspect located and identified as a student. Conduct Charges filed. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY: Unknown pcrson(s) entered student's unlocked room and stole the room tin extingu isllcr. The extinguisher was discharged in hallway and left damaged outside of the building. LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION: Room lire cx1inguisllcr dis charged. Life Safety Violation Notice filed. STUDENT RELATIONS: Assist with disagreement between roommates. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Students invGlved in physical altercation between themselves. Campus safety officers inter- vened. No injuries reported. Conduct Charges filed. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: SPD was called tG an oft' campus residence on complaint of noise. One stude11t vvas arrested. DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Residents rcrorted a disturbance in hallway. Responding officers found that unkno1vn person(s) had dumped bathroom containers all over the hallway. V ANDA!-ISM: Large vvindow in lower stai rwd 1 broken. VANDALISM: Alumna's parked car was forcibly entered (window broken). Attempt was made to remove stereo. Dash board was damaged during attempt. Occurred between 8:35PM- 9:16PM Keeping ''U'' Safe Have you or anyone you know been a victim of sexual assault/ violence at Union College? A national surve-y of over 6000 college students found that 42% of women students reported some for of sexual assault, including forceable sexual conduct, attempted rape, and completed rape (Koss & Harvey, 1991 ). These findi11gs suggest that Union is not exempt from these acts of violence. Unfortunately, rape occurs at Union, whether or not anyone would like to admit it. If you or someone you know has been a victim of sexual violence, Safe Space is here to help you. Safe Space offers survivors an opportunity to share their experiences in a confidential and supportive atmo- sphere. If you have any questions, concerns or simply need information, call the Safe Space bee.per at 1-800- 283-2255 pin # 11349 or stop by room 4048 in the College Center during our office hours on Sundays from 7-9pm or Wednesdays from !lam to lpm. If you are interested in writing, copy editing, laying out, or taking photographs, attend the next meeting of The Concordiensis. Tonight at 6:30pm N ' ( sm; dec tior spe Cor to d tee terr sou spri for sou accc age1 that ti ng or it port fron :-.tati hun' Fon tee. D pres stati I Pc toric day Pres1 for tl year· Com Jan. Cam CUSS I topic of th' !.a and t legt.: Prof. Pat ri\ sion: IL'lld con f(; bidde emba a II O\\ Prof. by sh grou~ Hava \was and S beaut man: I ~ J

, I WRUC Gets Pledged Funding •Student Forum Minutes by Shaun Monta11a. · Omtr.ibuting WritE~r On Saturday, January 24 1 h, a small groupofpeople me1to help decide the fate ·of the \Fir~t Sta- tion in the Nation,\ WRJJC. A special meeting of the Finance Committee v,.:as held that aftefl]oon to determine whetherthec()mrnit- tee would support WRUC':s at- tempt to purchase a new soundboard. An accident last spring has left the station loo-king for support to acquire a new soundboard, which would cost, according to WRUC General Man- ager Mike DeMicco, \arouldeight thousand dollars.\ WRUC is p-ut- ting up thirty-five hundrecldollars ofitsown money, and ishe1rt_g sup- potted by fifteen hundred clo liars from President HuH. This :Jeftth·e station in need of another fifteen f:mndreddollars. Enter the Stu <lent Forum and the Finance C<Jmmit- tee. DeMicco took a few minlltes to present the committee with the station's situation and request for fifteen hundred dollars. The five members ofthecommitteepresent proceeded to take time to discuss and then vote upon the request. The result of the vote, according to member To-m- Mariryo, was \m1animously in support of WRUC. We had absolutely no reservationsabout giving them the neecl.ed money. WRUC is the one of the most positive things on this campus.\ With the money to acquire a new board comes the solution to many of the problems the station faces. The nonfunctional microphones and compact disc players will be available again and the line that would allow live broadcast from Chet's can be installed with a new . board. In the last s.ix months, the station has added more call-in talk shows and a feecl which allows anyone connected to the Internet with speakers, including parents, families, and students on terms aboard, to hear WRUC. A new soundboard will allow the station to continue to expand its capabilities. Soundboards, which are built to last for very ex- tended periods of time, rarely fail except due to accidents, and the new board should serve WRUC for some time to come. The Finance Committee, how- ever, did caution that their ap- proval must sti'll be voted upon and approved by the Student Forum as a whole at their Monday afternoon meeting.. At that meeting, the fif- teen hundred dollars was approved and put into a holding account until the time comes when WRUC needs to purchase the equipment. DeMicco was \reaHy happy on the way things turned out\ and ex- pects the Student Forum to vote in favor ofthe Finance Committee's decision. He said, \Everybody has been exceptionally supportive. The Stude!ilt Forum has really taken our cause to heart, as has President Hull. Both offices have really come through for us. I re- ally want to thank them, the sta- tion owes them a lot.\ The entire college community should be greatful for the support the station has received from not only the Stu- dent forum, but also from Presi'\ dent Hull. Professor, Students Go to Cuba by Roger McShane Contributing Writer Pope John Paul II began fli.s llis- toric mission in Cuba last Weclhes- day with a warm greeting from President Fidel Castro ancl a call for the United States to end its 35- year-old economic ernbargoofthe C@mrnunist regime. On Thursday, Jan. 22\d in the 3rd floor of the Campus Center, an infonn al dis- cussion was held to addre$ this topic and sqed light on the effects ofthe embargo. Last- November two professors and one student from Unio'll Col- lege were allowed to visit Cuba. Prof. Meade,. Prof. Moyan(), and Patricia Acerbi were given p<lnnis- sion 'to enter Cuba in order t<l at- tend an international worn e11~s conference. (U.S. citizens a1e f{)r- bidden to visit Cuba because ()fthe embargo, however, thethreevtere allowed for academic reasolts.) Prof. Meade opened the discussion by showing slides ofthe trip. The group spent much of its time in Havana which Prof. Moyanosaid, \was similar to many Eumpean and Spanish cities.\ Although the beauty of Cuba was capture«! in many of the slides, they also showed a country that was in the middle of an economic crisis. Old, broken down,. American cars were used as taxis .. The country did not have enough energy to run wash- ers arid dryers so laundry had to be done by hand. Even the beauty of the country was effected as the embargo has slowed restoration of the country's majestic cities. \When renovated the bui !dings are gorgeous,\ Prof. Meade com- mented. However, the renovations have been put on hold in order to address the more pressing eco- nomic concerns. Although Cuba has been labeled the last Communist regime, the government has loosened many economic restrictions and has be- gun encouraging some private en- terprisesonce considered a subver- sion of Communism. Prof. Meade's slides showed many street merchants which seemed to symbolize Castro's loose eco- nomic restrictions. The Cuban government ac- knowledges these signs of capital- ism are a contradiction of dogma but says they're necessary to get through what it calls \the special period\ of economic crisis caused by the loss. of Soviet aid. Castro hopes that his actions will help end the economic crisis. A crisis that was humanized when Patricia Acerbi spoke of a rnan who w~s a taxi-driver by day and adoctor at night. Many other Cubans live similar Jives, working day and night for the government, still not being able to afford anything more than food for their childr~n. Al- though the Cuban government de- nies that capitalism is in the future, it sure does look like it. A Cuban citizen can earn considerably more in one day working for himself than in a month working for the govemm ent. The taxi-driver/doc- tor earns more money driving people around then he does sav- ing people's lives. The discussion focused mainly on the current problems in Cuba and less on how the Pope would address them. \Fidel is welcom- ing the Pope because there is a moral crisis as well as an economic crisis,\ Prof. Moyano said. \What- ever the Cuban people can provide they have, whatever needs ma- chines they lack,\ Prof. Meade commented. The country is in need of reform. The Pope may be just the person who can trigger this social and economic necessity. Sloan E . .Millerrrc Professor Tlleresa Meade lectures obout Cuba ond the Pope's visit ~ast week to the Communist cou11try. VP Finance: VP Admin: VP Social: VP Academic: VPMulti: Trustees: PanHel: SR: JR.: SOPH: FRESH: SAC: January 26, 1998 • (T. Marino stan~ing in)- WRUC board Alum might donate board • Went to various sources, got $6500. Asked for $15()0 _•Approved $1500 to be put aside for WRUC, to be given if necessary • Motion (Mariuo)-approve reserving$ I 500 for WRUC. Passed •Committee on Committees recommer~ded 2 clubs for SF approval: Paintball, Men's Ice Hockey •Revamp the parking appeals committee • More student involvement: weekly meetir~g (?) ., Deal with appeals and with traffic concerns on campus • Winter Carnival: Friday night Carnival going weJ:l • Saturday Semi-formal in gym may be moved need a floor covering for the gym • Spoke with Concert Committee: still looking for a big name thisterm (possibly Paula Cole) • Tenure lines still being discussed • Revision in basic engineering course • Prof. Klein (Sub-council for Academic Computing) to attend next meeting • MAC: Saturday day activities in Nott • Dutch Pipers, Garnet Minstrels, Shakti, ASU all to perform • CELA, ALAS planning a display in Nott to coincide with Black History month • Survey on multicultural issues on campus going out on next week • Meeting with Pres. Hull about Multicultt,ual fund • Race relations dissuasions still being formed • Alma Mater campaign going well •Trustees visiting in 2 weeks • SF should try to gather and focus student opinion for the meeting • Attendance much better • Nominations this week • Elections on 2/2 • PA • s would like the houses to not register for the weekend ofthe Winter Carnival. It is an important event and they would like the Greek system to lead the campus. • Motion- vote of sentiment from the SF that Houses should not register 6'h- 7r\. Passed • Rush going well. almost over •Getting SWAT T-shirts for the houses soon • Possible all sorority date function Class Reports • Event at the Van Dyke on Wed. or Thurs. • $2 left in budget • Possible Valentine event • New ideas for fundraiser: boxer shorts, scrubs • Battle of the Bands March tentatively 4'h • Beginning Anti-vandalism/Clean Campus Committee •Condom grams during Safe Sex Awareness Week Committee Reports • Possibility of redoing the Skellar and Old Chapel to create a student hang-out • Field trips to similar schools to research social alternatives Old Business • Town Meeting: went well • Past weekend: (Strickland) various problems with the weekend; (Zandman) cannot overlook the positive things that have come from the weekend; (Rossi) expressed extreme disgust with the administration's handling of alcohol related issues, is removing himself from the voting on alcohol realted issues. New Business • Motion- (Dougherty)- approve the Paintball club and Men's Ice Hockey club constitutions. Passed

News . WRUC Gets Pledged Funding by Shaun Montana Contributing Writer ON Saturday, January 24 1 \ a small group of people met to help decide the fate of the \First Sta- tion in the Nation,\ WRUC. A special meeting of the Finance Committee was held that afternoon to detennine whetherthe.commit- tee would support WRUC's at- tempt to purchase a new soundboard. An accident last spring has left the station looking for support to acquire a new soundboard, which would cost, according to WRUC General Man- ager Mike DeMicco, \around eight thousand dollars.\ WRUC is put- ting up thiny-five hundred do liars or its own mor1t:y. and is being sup- pond b) fifteen hundred dollars from President Hull. This kft the :-.tution in need of another fifteen hundred dollars. Enter the Student Forum and the Finance Commit- tee. DeMicco took a few minutes to present the committee with the station's situation and request for fifteen hundred dollars. The five members of the committee present proceeded to take time to discuss and then vote upon the request. The result of the vote, according to member Tom Marino, was \unanimously in support of WRUC. We had absolutely no reservations about giving them the needed mor:~ey. WRUC is the one of the most positive things on this campus.\ With the money to acquire a new board comes the solution to many ofthe problen1s the station faces. The nonfunctional microphones and compact disc players will be available again and the line that would allow live broadcast from Chet' scan be installed with a new board. In the last six month'>, the station has added more call-in talk shows and a feed which allmvs anyone connected to the Internet with speah:rs. including parents. 1~1111 i I ies. and students on terms aboard, to heur WR.UC. A ne\v soundboard will allow the station to continue to expand its capabilities. Sound boards. which are built to last for very ex- tended periods ofti.me, rarely fail except due to accidents, and the new board should serve WRUC for some time to come. The Finance Committee, how- ever, did caution that their ap- proval must still be voted upon and approved by the Student Forum as a whole at their Monday afternoon meeting. At that meeting, the fif- teen hundred dollars was approved and pl!lt into a holding account until the time comes when WRUC needs to purchase the equipment. DeMicco was '\really happy on the way things turned out\ and ex- pects the Student Forum to vote in favor ofthe Finance Committee's decision. lie said, \Everybody has been exceptionally supportive. The Student Forum has really taken our cause tn heart. as has President II u II. Both otfict.'s ha\ c really come through fnr u.... I re- ally want tu thank thL'tll, the sta- tion O\\Cs them a Int.\ Thl' e11tirc collegl' cornmunit~ should bc g.reatful fm the support the station has received from not only the Stu- dent forum, but also from Presi- dent Hull. Professor, Students Go to Cuba by Roger McShane Contributing f.f'riter Pope John Paul II began his his- toric mission in Cuba last Wednes- day with a warm greeting from President Fidel Castro and a call f(.ll\ the United States to end its 35- year-olu economic embargo of the Communist regime. On Thursday, Jan. ~2\J in the 3'd tloor of the Campus Center. an informal dis- cussion \\as held to address this topic and ~l1cd light on the e!T~:cts of the ~:rnhargo. Last Nm ember t\\ o professors and one student from llnion Col- lege \\ere alltm cd to visit Cuba. Prof. Meade. Prof Moyano, and Patricia Acerhi \\ct'l' g.i\en penn is- s ion ·to enter Cuba in order to at- tend an international \Vomen's conference. (U.S. citiz.ens are for- bidden to visit Cuba because of the embargo, however, the three were allo\ved for academic reasons.) Prof. Meade opened the discussion by showing slides ofthe trip. The group spent much of its time in Havana which Prof. Moyano said, \'was sirn i lar to many European and Spanish cities.\ Although the beauty of Cuba was captured in many of the slides, they also -·-~ ___ ;;::, :l showed a country that was in the middleofan economic crisis. Old, broken down, American cars were used as taxis. TJ1e country did not have enough energy to run wash- ers and dryers so laundry had to be done by hand. Even the beauty of the countr) was effected as the embargo has slowed restoration of the country's majestic cities. ··When renovatl'J tlw buildings arc gorgeous.\ Prof. Meade com- mented I Iowen;r, the renovations ha\e hecn put on hold in order to address the nwre pressing eC(I- nom 1c concern~. /\I though Ct1ha has lk'l'11 labeled the last Communist regime. the :,!.0\L?rnment has loosened many economic restrictions and has he- gun encouraging. some private en- terprises once considered a subver- sion of Communism. Prof. Meade's slides showed many street merchants which seemed to symbolize Castro's loose eco- nomic restrictions. The Cuban government ac- knowledges these signs of capital- ism are a contradiction of dogma but says they're necessary to get through what it calls \'the special period\ of economic crisis caused by the loss of Soviet aid. Castro hopes that his actions will help end the economic crisis. A crisis that v .. ·as humanized when Patricia Acerbi spoke of a man who was a taxi-driver by day and a doctor at night. Man; other Cubans live similar lives, working da;, and night fi.x the government, still not being ahlc to afford anything more than food for their children. Al- though the Cuban gO\ ~:rnrnt:nt lk- nies that capitalism i~ in the future. it sure does look like it. :\ ( 'uh;m cit i?en can earn con~idnahl: rnor~:· in ont: da: \Hlrking for him·,t'll th;m 111 ,, mDnth \\orking fllr the g.P\t:rtllllcnt. I he ta\i-dri\t:r d(ll'· tor L',trns In ore llllllll') dri\ in!-! people ;wounJ thL'll hl· doc:-. \a\- ing. people·' li\ !.?~. The dt<.,cus,ion focu.,ed main!: on the curr~nt problem~ in Cuba and less on how the Pope would address them. \Fidel is welcom- ing the Pope because there i~ a moral crisis as well as an economic crisis,\ Prof Moyano said. \What- ever the Cuban people can provide they have, whatever needs ma- chines they lack.\ Prof. Meade commented. The country is in need of reform. The Pope may be just the person who can trigger this social and economic necessity. Sloan E. Millerrrc Professor Theresa Meade lectures about Cuba ami the Pope's visit (a.~t week to the Communist country. '(it~e <l!nn:curirimsis • January 29, 1998 • Page 3 Student Forutn Minutes VP Finance: VP Admin: VP Social: V P /\caut:lll ic: VP Multi: Trustees: IH': Panik!: SR.: JR.: SOP!I: FRESfl: SAl: January 26, 1998 •(T. Marino standing in)- WRUC board Alum might donate board • Went to various sources, got $6500 Asked for $1500 • Approved $1500 to be put aside for WRUC, to be given if necessary • Motion (MarLto)-approve reserving $1500 for WRUC. Passed •Cormnittee on Committees recommended~ clubs for SF approval: Paintball, Men's Ice Hocke) • Revamp the parking appeals committee •More student involvement: weekly meeting('?) • Deal \Vith appeals and with traffic concerns on campus •WinterCtrni\al: Frida) night Cami\al going. \Veil •Saturday Semi-formal in g) 111 ma:. be llltl\ L'cl need .1 floor co\ nin~ for thl' :!) m •Spoh.~: v .. :ith CnnC\.TI l'ummit!L'e: -,ttll luokm~ fPI a btg Il<lllll' this lL'tlll (possihl) Paula Ctdt:i .. lt:nure lint:'> still bL\Ill!.! di-,cth..,ed •Revision in basic enginL?cring Cllllf'>L' • Prof. Klein ( Sub-counc i I fm :\caJem1c Computing) to attend next meeting ·MAC: Saturday day activities in Nott •Dutch Pipers, Garnet Minstrels, Shakti, ASl' all to perform •CELA, /\LAS planning a display in Nott to coincide with Black History month .. Survey on multicultural issues on campus going out on next \veek • Meeting with Pres. Hull about Multtcultural funJ • Ruce relations dissuasions still being formed • Alma Mater campaign going well • Trustees visiting in 2 \veeh.s • SF ~hould try to gather and focus student opinion fur the mcetinn ::- • 1\ ttenuance much hetter • No111inatiom !hi-, ~~eek •l len ion\ 011 .:? .:: • P'\ ·., \\ould lih· the hou._,, . ., to IHII re~i..,IL'r !~11· thl' \\Cl'kc'lld or the \\.'mtcr C<trtll\ a! I! ,.., ;Ill ltnp,wtant e\L'llt and till·~ \\otlld Ii~e the (irt:L'k -.,; -..tcm \(l ll'ad the campti' •\lotitlll- \ llll' of ..,ellliment Irlllll thl\ Sf th,:t I luli'>L'\ ..,IJ,nlld not rq!l'>ll'r (,· · ~· . f',h,ed •H.u..,h 1:,!\lill!,! 1\t:ll. alnwst over •C.ictttll_L! SWA I I .,fmh fur thL\ lwtl\L'\ '-,(l(ltl • f >ns~ tble all c,nrnrit;. date functi,•n Class Reports •f·vt:nt at the Van D:h· on Wed. or Thur-.. • S2 lett in budget • flnss ihle Valentine event • Ne\v idL?as li.lr fundraiser: h\1:>.cr -.horts, ~cruh~ • H3ttle of the Bands March tentati\L·ly. 4\ ·B~ginning Anti-\andali..;m Clean C<1mpus Committee Committet.' Reports af>ossibilit) (If redoing the Shl'll,tr ,md <lid l'h.lf'd tu <:rcall' a stuJent hang-uut • Fi~ld trips to similar .... chlhlh tu re~eard1 ~ucJ,t! alternatives Old Business • Town Meeting: went well • Past weekend: (Strickland) various problem:-, 1\ ith thL? '' eehenJ. (Zandman) cannot overlook the positive things that ha\ e cnllll' frlltn the weekend; (Rossi) expressed extreme disgust\\ ith the administration's handling of alcohol relateJ issues, 1:-, renw\mg himselffrorn the voting on alcohol realted issues. New Business • Motion- (Dougherty)- approve the Paintball club and Men's lee Hockey club constitutions. Passed

Campus News Tit e Society, Thurston House, Ludlow, and Theta Delta Chi are un- dergoing evaluation by the Student Affairs Council for renewal of their hou>ing privileges. Any member of the College community who would lik~t()submit comments about any of these houses is encouraged to do so. The SAC is primarily concerned with two questions: Does this group use- their house to improve the cultural, intellectual, and social life of cal!lpus?; Is the collective lifestyle of the house conducive to academic. acl1ievement? Please send comments to SAC c/o Dean of Students Office or to SAC c/o Professor Jim Adrian, Chair Chemistry Dept. An a.d hoc committee has been formed to consider making a :rec.om- melldation to the Board of Trustees to change the college motto from \S~u s :les lois de miverve nous devenons tous freres\ to \Sous ]es lois de 1 Minerve no us devenons tous unis\ to represent the college's coedu- cati o11al character. Please submit any input to Joe Zolner '76 Ad Hoc Committee Chair, Union College, Lamont House Graduate Center, Sch e11ectady, NY 12308 (Phone: 518-388-6447, Fax: 5l8~38S-6686, E-tnllil: zolnerj@union.edu) no later than February I, 1998. A C()mmittee has been formed to review the professional performance of Gail· Goldennan, Electronic Media Librarian in Schaffer Library. · Any members of the cellege community who wish to provide written comunent about her performance contact a member of the comrn ittee, care-;ofSchaffer Library, by January 30. The iRdbert Avon Smith, Class of 1952 fellowship is awarded to stu- dents in the sciences or engineering programs who participate in a sum- mer Fesearch program in bio-medical engineering under the guidance . of lJn ion College faculty. For applications, please ,contact Profes~or J. Ridurd Shane brook in the Department of Mechanical Engineering. The fa<:ulty Development Committee is now soliciting. proposals for facult::y and scholarship activities. Applications are available in Dean Sor11m' s Office. The deadline for submission of proposals is February 19, :£ 919'8. Sorority Rush Schedule Jant!utry 29th: Rushee Invitations: Begins at 7pm Humanities & Social Sciences (See Rho-Chi) Jamur:y 30th: Preference Night 6-8:45pm (2 Houses/75 min, Meet@ Alps) The 5~haffer Library is looking, tentatively, to move Special Col Jec- Fingers Pointing at Freshmen by Douglas Baskies Contributing Writer · In President Clinton's State of the Union Address, he said that \finger-pointing\ does not solve problems. Although he was speak- ing of our nation.'s economy,. it seems that such a similar finger- pointing action is happening at Union College in terms of the freshman class· and the numer- ous trips to Ellis • HospitaL A I e h Gershkovich, freshman class tertainment, but the there needs to be a gr~ater effort on the powers to be to provide for this.\ Many students believe that a more severe punishment should come upon the students who get into alcohol related problems, and that the entire class should not suf- fer for the actions of others. AaroQ. would br·ing their drinking off- campus, and therefore a higher possibH ity of driving while under the influence would arise.\ A student who was taken away to Ellis Hospital during fall term, af!d wished not to be named, said that the school· takes a lot of un- necessary actions in tenns of send- . ing people to the hosp.i.tal. He made it dear that there is no 24 hour health center on campus, and also said that if one calls the health center after 11 PM, they will be directed to the President, said, camp1;1s safety of- \ the adminis- fice. This was, tration is fed up from his stand- with students point, why the being sent to the Public ~elatio11s l'h()to number of fresh- hospital. Last Fresllmenin WestCollegeha.vejacedanawkwardyetJrtluetoalcoli6L men students weekend, theywantedto 'slow the Seliger '01 said, \such a.generali- taken away has been so high this campus down' in terms of drink- zationshouldnotfall upon the en- year. ing and give the students time to tire freshman class. Just because Sarah Hasson, a West College think about what is going on.\ so man.y freshmen have been taken freshman floor representative, This year, the number of stu- to Ellis with alcohol poisoning stated,\a more strict punishment dents taken te Ellis is significantly does not mean that the entire class needs to be put into effect at Union higher than previous years. After is made up of irresponsible people. College.\ fall term and four weeks into the Neither the freshman class, the But a difference of opinion was winter term, ll students have been upperclassmen, nor the fraternities stated by Matthew Smith '0 I, who transported to Ellis Hospital. To should be held responsible for the said, \such a harsh punishment meet with this concern at Union minute .majority of the student would be a deterrent for students, College, there was a \dry\ week- body. Only those students who are as they would then be afraid to call end. Andrew Mallios '98 corn- having the problem should be pun-· for assistance.\ mented, \this dry weekendshowed ished, not the entire student body.\ Adam Landry '0 I said, \I un- what Union would be like if the .Jfthe campus were to become a derstand the administration's con- present social scene were to come \dry campus,\ an important point cern, however, pointing the finger to an abrupt end. I agree that there was raised by Steven Gigliotti '98. at the entire freshmen body for the sho!.!ld be m<;~re alternatives, such He said, \if drinking was prohib- mistakes of such a small percent- as concerts andotherforms of en- ited on this campus, students age ofthe class is unjust.\ tions a11d the Schaffer Library basement(bound periodicals, microforms, 1-------------------------------------...-....._---- map>} into the new building in about mid-February. All materials cur- Last Weekend's Actt.vt'tt·es Cont'd From Page 1 rentl)' ill the old basement will be accessible immediately following the · .· •• • - ' · · shift • Tile Special Collections unit will be closed from January 19- F:ebruary 24 for packing, relocation, and unpacking. •llhe library staff expects to move the remainder of the old library into the new building during the Spring Break. The Ubrary will be closed for that entire week {March 21-29). •The Libary Circulation/Reserve Dept. will be in touch with faoeulty soon about the scheduling of Reserves requests and th~; return of books during the second move. • As always, we will make every effort to minimize the nega- ti.ve impact of these dislocations on the Union College faculty. staff, and students. The rv-lrs. Edwin L. Rich Prize is awarded to the student \'who has built the b~sl! collection of books for use during college.\ The prize, a $3 00 gift ce1:-tificate, will be awarded this year. The collection should be a comprehensive and humane one, promoting development ofboth char- acter a11d intellect Guide limes: 1) 1h e number of volumes in the candidate library must be at 1 east fifty btooks owned by the student and marked with his/her name or bookp l!!c,e. 2) P.aperbacks may be included; college textbooks may not. 3) Thae collection must be centered around a theme; either a particu- lar subject, or author, or time period. The student must provide a single page e~say describing the collection, how and why it was formed, and how it is most used by the student. This essay should include some menti01n of plans for additional development of the library, with e:x- ample~Sofauthors, topics, or specific titles. 4) Tile collection should reflect use for college studies or research. Schedl!le: a) The: contestant must submit a list of his/her books, and the afore- mentiefled essay, to Maribeth Krupczak, Schaffer Library. Deadline. for submission is March 30th, 1998. b) Ju.<Jging will take place in early April at the student's residence. Union'C()I!ege Schaffer Library Book Sale January 30, 1998. 10:30- · 4:30pnt. The sale will be held in the lobby of Schaffer Library. Hard· cover !)oe10ks will be sold for $1.00, Paperbacks for $0.50. If you have any questions, please call Maribeth Krupczak at 3~8-6632. To write for The Concordiensis please dial 388-6155. Thank you. it was a different social scene. One thing we noticed was that people who never come to our house nor- mally showed up. It was kind of cool. People could go to a Greek house without having something to complain about. It was something different. Change never hurts once in awhile.\ The Alpha Epsi Jon Pi fra- ternity also hosted a musi- cal event, a jazz concert on Friday night. AEPi Presi- dent Adam Levithan com- mented, \It turned out pretty well. But it was mostly our friends and as- sociates who showed up, mainly because it had to be put together so quickly and so they were the only ones who knew about it.\ Levithan contin- ued to say that there was still a large amount of drinking on cam- pus .. \People did still drink, and we were forced to usher out some people who showed up completely wasted.\ Adam Jacobowitz, an in- dependent resident of South, ech- oed these observations, and noted that the absence of fraternities par- ties had had a negative effect on - -~ -~-.--...--- the amount of drinking done in the residence halls. \Instead of going out to fraternities, people in South just drank in the dorm and were extremely loud late at night. I think the idea behind the weekend was good, but they probably should have offered more alternatives, other things to do. I didn't even know about FIJI's party until late on Saturday. There wasn't much publicity.\ With regard to whether or not the administration was unfairly targeting fraternities for being the sole cause of Union's drinking problem, Levithan said, \I can see what they were trying to do. It's a real tightrope. Yes, it is unfair, but fraternities have been stupid in the past. I think it turned out well. Everyone stepped up to it and proved that it's not the frats that are causing the problem.\ Dean Alford partici- pated in the· weekend's goings-on himself, and was favorably impressed. \I went over to Psi U and a nice group of people over there. I heard some good music and some great poetry ... I went over to the cam pus center to see the movie, and there was a large crowd there.\ He pointed out that the weekend, although frat party ftee, was not entirely dry. \I'm absolutely sure that people were still drinking at some places. I think it would be pretty hard to have a completely dry weekend.\ In short, the weekend's events showed that though the ab- sence of frat parties sent across a much-needed disciplinary mes- sage, punishing fraternities does not serve as an effective panacea for Union College's alcohol con- sumption ills. le in o1 d< Vv w ti.j ag se w: ne wi pc of Cl te1 the ha Pr' Stl ve da Pe fri Le l Le wi1 bet ret Cli ren Jt. pia fri( COl Le1 ma ·~ on flic the nos Ver *X lE dia. T cam off take Hos T1 and ) itt)( exte cam not info daw proh 01 chiv hav~ that ence

' ·' by Lia..- Jloynt. World Ne~Y:Btlitot A series of unlik-ely events has led to the largestsca11dal in aT! ad .. ministration riddiGcil with charges ofboth financial' and sexual wrong- doing. Monica Le'Win.sky was a White House intemi~n 1994 and she was recently subpoenaed to tes~ tify in Paula Jones.\ civil lawsuit against President Clinton claiming sexual misconduct .. Ms. Lewinsky was believed, by Mrs. Jones' attor- neys, to have had se:xu~l relations with Mr. Clinton ~mlthuswass~b­ poenaed to providoe a background of sexual promiscuity by Mr. Clinton. In her affid:!lvit(the writ- ten equivalent t() testimony), though, Ms. Lewin.Sky denied ever having any sexual r.elations with President Clinton. Days later, the offi10eofKenneth Starr, the independe11t counsel in- vestigating the Whitewater scan- dai, received a teleplune call from Pentagon employeeLinda Tripp, a fri-end and CO•W <Hrk.er of Ms. Lewinsky. · Ms. Tripp alleg·ed that Ms. Lewinsky had an I 8-m.onth affair with Mr. Clinton a11d that she hac;f been persuad.ed t() lie about the relationship in cou tit by ·both Mr. Clinton and his cl<>se friend, well renowned attorney Vern on Jordan Jr. Furthermore, Ms. Tripp ex- plained that, unbeknownst to her friend, she 'had taped tti etelephone conversations where Ms. Lewinsky had reveal~d tbis infor- mation. Ms. Lewinskyco~Ed be indicted on charges of perjury for the con- flict-between her sw<(Jrn affidavit in the Paula Jones cas.e and the sup- nos.ed twenty hours of taped con- ~ersation·where shediscusses her *x~al relations withl\1r. Clinton. lBefore this story b-tmketo the me- dia, Kenneth Starr t1i-ed to make a by David D1.1ssau11 History Ediiflr The topic of dfs.~:ussiort on campus lately has been the influx of freshman students that have taken the \shuttle-hl!.ls\ to Ellis Hospital. To stay on the topic (){drinking and partying, I have C()nducted a little research to fin,C Ollt to what extent drinking has plagued our campus throughout hi St<lry. I did not know where to go for this information at first, but then it dawned on me, Jet's l()ok back to prohibition, and that 1Jarticular era. On my ventures tllrollgh the ar- chives of The Concordiensis, I have discovered a ce11tral theme that continually in bib its its pres- ence into the pages of the o1d, yet World News & Views hreaten~d by Allegations deal. with Ms. Lewinsky, where she would receive immunity :from crimi- nal prosecution if she wore a wire tap for conversations with 1 White House officials regarding her situ- ation. Now th<lt ·the story is known na· tionw.ide, Starr is rie- gotiating with Ms. Lewinsky's ~ttorney, William· Ginsburg, fothert~s­ timony saying she had sexual reI a ti ons with the Pr~side.nt and that he and Jordan tried to cover it up in ex- change for total immu- nity. Nei- ther side has agreed to the oth- ers.' terms yet. If Ms. Lewinsky accepts Mr. Starr's deal, Presi- d. e n t Clinton could face charges of per- jury, f()r saying under oath in his Paula Jones deposition that he did not have sexual relations with Ms. Lewinsky, and obstruction of jus- tice, for persuading Ms. Lewinsky m lie. Vernon Jordan would face similar obstruction of justice charges .. When Ms. Tripp was asked why she did not bring her informatio-n to the Justice Department, the nor- mal channel for sucb an .investiga- tion, she claimed that the White House had too many friends there, making legal action against the President highly unlikely. President c_J inton, in recent days especially, emphaticaHy denied any sexual activity between Ms. Lewinsky and himself. Vernon Jor- dan admits to helping Ms. Lewinsky find a_ lawyer for her in- volvement in the Paula J()nes case, but says he never told her to lie. intrinsic newspaper ... drinking! tell of the celebrations both stu- Drinking was a very important and dents and administration partici- needed commodity at most events pated in. This was not due to a on~our campus of old, and was dis- sense of alcoholism on campus, but ,. tributed with great confi- =.,.,...\\\\'!\=.. dence that it would be con- sumed with maturity and in-, .. _., .......... · .. telligence. Although I have discovered certain articles that tell of the wild parties that occurred on campus, not once is there a teport of hos- pitalizations due to the ''so- . called\ binge drinking that · occurred. I also discovered articles that tell of the hardships that prohibition created, due to the tnany underground instances that took place, involving alcohol. In early 193 3, there are numerous pub- lications of The Concordiensisthat because we all know that drinking is a big part ofl if e. Consuming al- coholic beverages is a part of the realistic world, perhaps the sole reason for the failure ofprohibition Hillary Rodham Clinton has called this entire incident an at- tempt to und(mnine hedlUsband's presidency. She adamantly sup- ports him on this issue_ All of this comes at a time when war with Iraq seemsimmi• nent and President Clinton was attempting toguidene- gotiations between Is- rae ti and PLO lead- ers. His good stand- ing in pub- lic opinion ratings ~ h a v e fdropped · over fifteen 1~~~ I . fi. ~ ~e~cen_t and i It IS IJkeJy that he has lost interna- tional s.tanding dlle to this scandal. Many offi- c-ials in Washing- ton have commented on the se- verity of the situation for President Clinton. U.S. States Plan for Dealing witlllraq Over the weekend, top United States foreign policy advisors met and established a plan of action in response to Sad dam Hussein's calls for a holy war against the in 193 3. Maybe the reason that our fraternities were closed last week- end was due' in part to the fact that our administration does not realize =\\\\\this. This past weekend created new problems, it surely did ·not solve anything except to push drinking into the dorm rooms and out of the super- vision of elders. History teaches us many · things, and it absolutely shows us that alcohol has always been a crucial aspect of our beloved college, and it always will be. Don't get me wrong, I'm not suggesting that binge drinking is right or even healthy. I'm just stressing the fact thata:lcohol can- not be banned because ir will al~ United States. According to a member of the National Security Council, the U.S. will attempt one more round of diplomatic negotiations to bridge the gap between U.S. demands and Iraqi refusals. Ifthisdiplomacy is fiuitless, then the U.S. will offer Iraq an ultimatum. If the demands ofthe ultimatum are not met, then the US. will take military action, most likely in the form of air strikes on Iraqi infrastructure, arsenals and suspected chemical and nuclear weapon$ sites. At present, there are two U.S. aircraft carriers in the Persian Gulf withacombined350 planes. Only Great Britain has pledged to support the U.S. inthis venture and they are already moving naval forces into the Persian Gulf. The U.S. w:ill act with or without support from the United Nations, which may be difficult to win over with the current dissent of Russia, China, and France. Pope Advocates More Freedom in Communist Cuba Throughout his three-day visit to Cuba, Pope John Paul II has called for more extended religious freedom and other democratic principles. He gave President Fidel Castro a I ist of political prisoners, rumored to contain over 300 names, that he wished released and he called for a diminished totalitarian rule ofCuba. In the past, such requests by powerful dignitaries have led to the release of at least some prisoners by Castro~ The Pope has also made frequent references to the terrible poverty suffered by most Cubans, partially due to sanctions by foreign nations, such as the U.S. He called for an end to these sanctions for the g.ood ofthe Cuban people. ways be consumed, so don't try and keep i1 from the students by closing the fratemities, that only creates more problems. Throughout my research, I have discovered thatalcohol has always been avery important aspect of this campus and its functions. Instead of ignoring history and trying to take drinking away from the stu- dents, we should attGmpt to edu- cate them ()ll how to drink respon- sibly. Let us take history into major consideration, especially when our administration attempts once again to push all drinking off.campus. That's a whole different issue, and was a very dangerous move on the part of our administration, just ask the Schenectady Police Depart- ment.

Beat· tli~-;t:Ua~h····Iin;;'·~~~d··~isit·•··our: ..... . comfortable ~t~QSpnere, aCtOSS····the s·t ·.F.E )0f:~l from ·Fero··acuse on NoM Street.·. ·· . . We also offer · ·.FREE . ·-_· .-:. ;:._ ... -\' .· . . -. ·DELIVER¥! SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM We Wiii-P~y Your Tuition I Shape The Future Teach New York! The New York City Board of Education ne&ds qualified staff in a number of critical areas. You may be ~li~JJI>.Je fQ!r a Scholarship ifll)ne of the areas listed below. If you are interested in raetJi\\ling a fact sheet arld application for the Scholarship Pr~gram, _Pleas& ~eturrn this coupon and a s(rtf-addressed stamped envelope {busmess srze) to mtrurls 551t postage no later than February 16, 1998 to: Bureau o:l Fll!!cruitrnent Prograrr1s 65 Cc11rt Street .. Room 101 Bro()klyn, NY 11201 PLEASii~PRiNTiN.BLAiCKiNiK~••w••••••••••••-••••••TEAA.HEflE•~ NAME,____________________ --------- LAST FI'JIST sociAL SECURITY I ADDRESS. _________ ( ) __ _ TELEPHONE# CITY STAle ZIP frf()ST RECENT DEGREE SHORT AGE AEAS • Plea~e c:lleck ONLY ONE !)o]l:: * BILINGUAL 0 BILINGUAL SPECIAL EDUCATION* D BILINGUAL SCHOOL PSYCHOLOGY** 0 BILINGUAL SCHOOL SOCIAL WORK** D BILINGUAL GU.I DANCE & COUNSELING** MONOLINGUAL/BILINGUAL 0 DEAF & HEAillttG IMPAIRED*'* D SPEECH & liEA~ING HANDICAPPED* 0 VISUALLY IM()#\IRED* Scholarships are offered at tltf CJncl~;rgndtaate Ownlor sla!IISJ)or greduate level. ** Scholarships ar-e offered atthe !Jfa.clllate Jevel CW11y. (Check One): 0 Graduate Level Du~tdel'fln~duate Leve1 If you are bilingual,. please indlc:ate the langtlage (<~tiler than English) In which you· can derno~nllalt oral and wrlttell \J)roflcle!'lcy: IMPLEMENTAncm OF THE SCHOI.Af!IHIFPROGRAM IS COJmNGEifT UPON THE STAFFING HEEDS OF THE NEW YORK CITY PUI'U.IC;eHOOL SYSTEM·AND TllEAVAILABIL TY OF FUNDS. ' ~---- An Amnnatlve AclrllTJ 1 £flUS! Opportunity Er~~ployer ·U.S. Pemallent Res/cltr~tSIIIIIS or U.S. Cltllensft~ Required. -.- ~----_..- -- Sc u slee1 con·. man istic COlli sign Sea: (SAi ditio and, Tl Aca1 Psyc lion flict€ ordei five 1 in th \win six p miili eight SAD founi lies, · with larly ] j Wi ating The mon< ket, J erati1 Han< was with~ 500,1 hand puter capal hasg1 biliti( aven nizer. Hand their sion < peara Wi progr Pock(; and C progr email connf . \pod< Wind their they~ to t:> calcul The c Hand key be type c PC's regulii Hand] sebec infom Wi1 Hand! regul2

Science & Technology Are You Feeling Blue in the Winter White? by V·ictoria Hargreaves Science & Teclznology Editor Unmotivated, lethargic, irregular sleeping pattern, weight gain, in- consistency in school perfor- mance .. Although these character- istics are often associated with college students, they may be a sign of a more serious condition: Season a I Affecti· v e Disorder (SAD). SAD is a depressive con- ditionthataffects people in the fall and winter. The Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry States that over a mil- lion American children may be af- flicted by Seasonal Affective Dis- order. While approximately twenty fi.ve percent of Americans who live in the northern hemisphere have \winter doldrums,\ approximately six percent of Americans (1 0-25 million people) have SAD. About eighty percent of those are females. SAD may be genetic as :it often found in multiple members of fami- lies, but it is most often associated with geograph icallocation, particu- larly the north where there are fewer hours of daylight in the win- ter and the polar regions where an entire month can be dark. The dis- tance from the equatordhectly re- lates to the frequency efSAD suf- ferers; the farther one is from the equator, them ore likely one is to have SAD. \In Florida, less than 1% of the .general populationhave SAD, while in Alaska as many as 10% of people may suffer from winter. depression.\ \Winter depression is caused by an absence of day- light and a decrease of activity af- ter the hondays,\ says Jerry Maurath, a counselor at Counsel- ing and Psychological Services at Hudson Health Center. Some be- lieve that the fewer hours of sun- ):ight .in winter slow the brain's \bio- logical clock\ which controls hor- mones, sleep, and disposition in people with SAD. These research- ers contend that bright light \re- sets\ this \clock.\ Other scientists believe that SAD is caused by chemical imbalances in the brain. Another group believes that the eyes of those with SAD are not as sensitive to light in the winter. Sy,mpt01ns usually begin in ado- lescence, last from September to April, and include: oversleeping, overeating,. frustration, irritabilitY, increased susceptibility to infec- tiol1s, depression, lack of energy, nervousness, and pessimism. For a diagnosis of SAD, one should consult a psychiatrist, psycholo- gist, or social worker. Although there is no definitive cure for SAD, there are several treatments which help to relieve some ofits symptoms. Dr. Norman Rosenthal, director of seasonal studies at the National Institutes ofMental Health says, \The most important thing to do for SAD patients is to make them aware that this disorder exists, so they can get treated and feel better.\ Light therapy exposes a person to diffused fluorescent light without causing damage to the eye while \mimicking the effect of a bright summer day.\ Under a physician's guidance, one sits near the box of light with his eyes open but not directly focused on the light. Researchers disagree on the effects of lighttherapy. While some say, \Research has not yet determined whether light has a positive effect on SAD patients.\; others say, \As little as 30 minutes per day of sitting under a light box results in significant improvement in 60% to 80% of SA_D patients.\ Most patients experience a lessening of symptoms, but SAD does not totally disappear. Although side effects are rare, some people experience eye irritation, nausea, and an overabundance of energy. Researchers recommend that people with glaucoma, cataracts, retinal detachment, retinopathy, or other disorders of the eye do not undergo light therapy. \Some studies indicate that 'light banking,' four or more days in a row ofat least four hours of light a day, in the fall can help to prevent more significant symptoms in the winter.\ Drug treatments simila1ly lessen the severity of SAD's symptoms. \Apart from moving to or taking long vacations in a climate with more available natural light, some sufferers found that standard antidepressant medications provide relief, even if they do not · reach their normal level of well- being until spring or summer.\ Some with SAD successfully employ \cognitive therapy\ which involves the power of positive thinking and talking to motivate and energize oneself. Sources: 132.23 5.23~ .184/archives/0 I 0996/ winter.thml a vocado.pc .l1elsinki. fi/-janne/m ood/ sad.html www .colostate .edu/Depts/C'oopExtiGPA 1 noframe/sad.htm www .leathne t. i vi .com/h news/9609/htm/ shining.htm www. outside in. co. u k/bod y clock/ sadinfo.htm www :psychiatry .ubc.ca/moodimd _sad.html www.yahoo.com/headlines/980 123/health/ stories!! depress_!. html • • • • Mtntature Co·mp~ters The Harmful Effects of Alcohol The Wave of the Future by Jeff Ausfeld Contributing Writer by Jennifer Trotts Staff Writer From the medical perspective, drinking is a balancing act between risks and benefi~§, According to the F()od and Nutrition Encyclo- Windows CE is the latest oper~ PC, the infmmation between the pedia, those pleasant sensations ating system offered by Microsoft. machines can be updated and syn- of relaxation and loss of inhibition The software giant is trying to chronized. This synchronization mean that the semi-toxic chemical monopolize, in a totally new mar- aids in keeping Information up to ethanol has entered the lining of ket, Handheld PC's, and their op- date on both computers. Files can your mouth and throat and zipped erating systems. Last year, the also be transferred to the Handheld up to your brain. Once alcohol has Handheld PC · PC from the PC. reached your brain, it causes low- was introduced These transfers level depression of your central with sales of over and updates are nervous system, affecting every- 500,000. This accomplished thing from breathing to balance. handheld com.. through ~ serial The rest of your brew is being ab- puterhas limited cable connec- . sorbed into the bloodstream capabilities but tion. thr01,igh the stomach and intestine has greatercapa- One of the linings. The alcohol travels to all bilities than the Handheld PC the organs and tissues of the body average orga- . A Jeff & Dan Article makers is Casio. · through the bloodstream, concen- nizer. Almost all I personally own trating in the brain. Your neurons Handheld's use Windows CE as a Cassiopeia A-11 that has four slowdown leading to impairments their operating system. This ver- megabytes of RAM. It has many of judgment and memory. The sion of Windows is similar in ap- uses ranging from taking notes, downside of your night on tfte pearance to Windows \95. keeping checking a~counts up to town starts with your liver. When Windows CE has several date, writing memos, and jotting this organ is metabolizing alcohol, programs including Pocket Word, down ideas. Thetou~h-screen and it neglects duties like maintaining Pocket Excel, a Calendar, Task list, classical Windows 95 interface help blood glucose levels. After a few and Contact list. Added to these to make this product both easy ~o · drinks, you'll find you are less hun- programs is the ability to retrieve use and useful. Most handheld gry, but alcohol~ like sugar, contains email, browse th~ Internet, and PC's even have built in alanns with limited nutritional va]ue. It drains connect to other computers. These flashing lights to notify the owner away your body's reserve of vita- . ~'pocket\ versions of the popular about appointments. The most re- · mins and nutrients, especially A, Windows s()ftware are limited in ' cent ones have 640x480 color dis- B, and C. If you've been drinking their capabilities. Even though plays and voice recording capabili· alcohol faster than your liver can they are limited they allow users ties. metabol-ize or oxidize it (one ounce to type letters, reports, do The advent of the Handheld PC oflQ().proofliquorper hour), then calcula~ions, and keep a schedule. and Windows CE have ushered in you're likely to be slurring your The only disadvantage is that a new era of mobile pocket-sized speech and staggering. So with all Handheld PC's h!J.Ve small compUting. Another device that is thisdistomfort, the question might keyboards tltat make it difficult to similar to the Handheld PC is the arise: why bother to drink? type a lot of information. These Palmtop~ The Palmt<>p usually lacks Some experts suggest that alco- PC's are 11ot meant to replace a keyboard and only has a touch- . holis.usedto·both explore life and regular desktops or laptops. These screen as a user interface. The av- to feel at ease, but they also note Handheld PC' s are meant to aid in erage Handheld PC also has a that anything the brain can do on scheduling and carrying touch-screen ~d both have back- · alcollol, it can also. do on its own. information while on the go. Ut displays. Both of these tech- · \A 1-.Jt of people in college like to Windows CE allows the nologies are helping to transport drink to excess because they like Handheld PC to. connect with '- information and do scheduling in . feelmg outof control,\ said Mary regular PC. By GOnnecting to- the new and innovative ways. . · Andres, a clinical psychologist. \It becomes a problem when they can't adjust or moderate their be- havior-when they can't stop themselves.\ Moderation is the key debate issue. Recent scientific studies have shown that a/coho/ actually has some medical benefits, but only when taken in moderation. A fair amount of research has resulted in the conclusion that the limit should be II drinks/week for women and 17 for men. However, a drinker must understand that this consumption must be spread more or less equally over the days, as the consumption of large quanti- ties of alcohol per occasion can- cels the beneficial effects of alco- hol. Having seven drinks on Fri- day and Saturday evenings (a to- tal of 14) does not have the same protective effect as a daily con- sumption of drinks. It can not be excluded that, even if the incidence of cardiovascular diseases de- creases with the increase in the number of drinks, higher consump- tion can lead to an even greater risk of illness or death. However, ithas also been found that alcohol has no protective ef- fect on young people. The protec- tive effect increases with age and the risk of coronary disease (for men, after the age of 40,for women, after menopause). The most signifi- cant protect<ive effect is seen in people of sixty and older. · Once in the body, alcohol passes through the three main areas of the brain via the bloodstream. These are: the forebrain, the midbrain, and the hindbrain. The forebrain, or frontal lobe area, controls judg- ment and reasoning. In this area that the alcohol \high\ is created, affectingjudgment and reasoning. Caution, common sense, reason- ing, and inhibitions. are reduced when this area of the brain is ex- posed to alcohol. The midbrain regulates muscular control,, and walking and coordinated move- ment are affected by alcohol in this part of the brain. The hindbrain controls bodily functions like res- piration and heart rate. When a person consumes 12 drinks, he or she can have a Blood Alco- hol Content as high as 0.5 (half of one percent of the fluid in their bloodstream is alcohol!). Death can result from this level of intoxica- tion. For those that survive to try it again, the long-term effects of drinking excessively are cirrhosis of the liver, weakened heart muscles, inflamed pancreas, stom- ach ulcers and atrophy of the brain. After drinking too much, some people try to \sober up.\ While certain practices make one feel as ifthey are sobering upfaster, there is no way to speed up alcohol me- tabolism. The average person can metabo- lize a half ounce of alcohol per hour, a.nd less if his/her physical condi- tion is weakened due to lack of food· or low fluid intake prior to drinking. Physical activity will not increase this rate. A person who takes a walk prior to driving home is just as likely to be DWI as a per- son who just gets in his/her car. The effects of alcohol on the body can be reduced when alcohol is ingested .slowly than the QOdy can metabolize it. Drinking nonalco- holic liquids also increases the body's supply of fluid to help me- tabolize the alcohol, but does not increase liver function speed. If one goes drinking and needs to stay sober, it is bestnot to drink at all or to consume no .more than one glass of beer or its equivalent (a half ounce alcohol content) per hour and drink nonalcoholic drinks in between alcoholic ones. The alco- hol effect depends on several fac- tors: quickness of consumption, how much fooo has been eaten, body weight. lind the personality and surroundiogs.ofthe,drinker. ..

- MONDAY, MARCH 16,.1998 • 9:00~11:0ClA.M. s 810*026*01 The Cell w/Lab Danowski/Smith BAIL207 GRK*130~01 Homers The Odyssey Toher, M .. HUMN 113 b~ 810*046*01 lntro to PsychobiOlogy Weisse, C. BAIL 102 MER*035*01 Engineering Reliability Bucinelli ·R. NWSE205 BI0*154*01 Developmental Biology w/Lab Boyer, B. BAIL201 MTH*010~01 Calculus 1 Zwicker, W. BUTR 109 CER*033*01 Fluid Mechanic,s; w!Lab Jewell, T. BUTR 300 PHL \132*01 Sem:Leibnizthrough Kant LudWig, J. HUMN119 By CHM*150*01 Physical Chemistry 1 w/Lab Anderson, J. BAIL 106 PHY*120*01 Astror10my & .Astrophysics Marr, J.M. NWSE303 ofhec CHW121*01 Intermediate Cllinese2 Feng, J.P SSCI213 PSC*011*01 lntro to American Politics Fox, R. HUMN 114 offer< CLS*021*01 History of Greece Meckler, M. HUMN 019 tive lc CLS*044*01 Poetry & the Cosmos Mace, S. HUMN 110 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 1998 • 9:00-11:00 AM. my fc EC0*139*01 Public Finance McCarty, T . SSCI 012 BI0\'1 0*01 Biology 1 w/Lab Tobiessen, P. BAIL201, Rush. . EER*143*01 ElectromagneticEngineering 1 Chang, Y. NWSE 116 BI0*012*01 Biology 2 w/Lab Pytel, B. SSCI·014 and fc ESC*022*01 Mechanics II:Material Science Milillo, F. NWSE210 ·B 10'''150*0 1 Evolutionary Biology Boyer, J. SSCI012 ity sis HST*013*01 History of US to Civil War Sterng ass, J. SSCI112 ·EC0*051*01 Environmental Economics Kenney, J. SSC!103 Eac HST*014*01 History of US Since Civil War Feffe(, A. HUMN 115 tC0*140*01 Labor Econornics Prosper, P. SSCI1'12 freshn HST*035*01 History of l:urope.i Sargent, S. SSCI103 E6R*144*01 Cominunication Systems 1 Hassib, E. NWSE21Q notior HST*036*01 History of .Europe 2 Hansen, E. SSCI104 FRN*010*01 Basic French 1 Sc~euer,. A. HU.MN 110 even~ HST*036*02 History of Europe 2 Berk, S. HUMN 114 FRWOW01 Basic Frem;:h 2 Dogbe, C. HUMN1t2 Thisi: JPN*121*01 Intermediate Japanese 2 Wojnovich 1 M. SSCI010 GE0\011*01 The Earth & Life thru Time Shaw, G. BUTR 201 from c JPN*131*01 Advanced lntermJapanese II Kurichara, N. HUMN 113 GER*010*01 Basic German 1 KellenterJ S. HUMN116 rience MER*164*01 Solar Energy Analysis & Design Wilk,R NWSE205 HST\''44*01 The Second World War Era Hansen, E. SSCI104 thathl MTH*100*01 Orthogonal Functions Bick, T. BAIL 100 MER*033*01 Fluid Mechanics l w/Lab Shanebrook, J. NWSE222 PHL*020*01 Logic & Critical Reasoning Womack, C. SSCI016 PSY\'10*01 Intra to Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL 31'2 paper. PSY*020*02 Statistical Methods/Psychology Greenberg, S. BAIL300 PSY\'20*01 Statistical Methods/Pwchology Marling, B. BAIL 102 persm diffen PSY*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono,K BAIL312 PSY\'25*01 Experimental Psych W/Lab Burns, D. J. BAIL300 what~ PSY*046*01 Intra to Psychobiology Weisse, C. BAIL 102 SPN*011*02 Basic Spanish 2 IZL!rieta, I. HUMN 114 SOC*024*01 Social Psychology DeBono, K. BAIL312 SPN*120*01 Intermediate Spanish 1 Torres, B. HUMN 115 an op SPN*149*01 La Generacion del 98 lzurieta, L HUMN 014 SPN*121*02 Intermediate Spanish 2 Camacho, L HUMN 117 thougl morel MONDAY, MARCH 16, 1998 • 1:0()-3:00 P:M. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 19911-.1:00·3:00 P.M. anew AMU*030*01 American Music Olsen, T. ARTS 215 Ml'f-1*010*02 Calculus 1 Muckenfuss, J. BUrR 109 ing m ANT*025*01 Anthro Prespective:Childhood Brison, K. HUMN 110 MT!-1*012*01 Calculus 2 Sick, T .. BAIL 104 ex peri ANT*075*01 Biology of Homosapiens Boyer, J. \BAIL 104 MTH*012*02 Calculus 2 Hart, J. ARTS 109 ficult BI0*075*01 Biology of Homosapfens Boyer, J. BAIL 104 MTH*012*03 Calcutus 2 Rosenthal~ K. BAIL201 and it~ EC0*012*02 Introduction to Economics Motahar,. E. SSCI112 MlH*012*04 Calculus 2 Hart,J. ARTS 109 the RL EER*040*01 Circuits & Systems w/Lab Spinelli, J. NWSE 115 MTH*015*01 Calculus 3 Cervone, D.P. HUMN 014 whelrr EGL*027*01 Comedy Heinegg, P. HUMN 115 MlW015*02 Calculus 3 Johnson, B. HUMN 019 I un FRN*121*01 Intermediate French 2 Curran, A. HUMN 014 MTH*031*01 linear Algebra & Diff Equation Zulli, L. BAIL 100 is a vel GER*011*01 Basic German 2 Giguere, U. HUMN 116 MT1f031*02 Linear Algebra&Diff Equation Rosenthal, K. BAIL201 Asap· GER*139*01 German Lit 19th Century Hamm-Ehsani, K HUMN 213 MTH\OSB*01 Ap~ls of Math toEco 1 Fairchild, W BAIL207 value GER*149*01 German Lit& Culture:19th Cent HammcEhsani, K HUMN 213 MTH\OSB*02 Appls of Math to Eco 1 Fairchildi W. BAIL207 think~ HST*045*01 Tudor England:1485-1603 Halliday, P. SSCI104 last w HST*113*01 Popular Culture in A mer Hst Stemgass, J. HUMN 114- THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 1998 • 9:00-11:00 A.M. somcv MER*041*01 Engineering Design 2 wJLab Keat, W.D. NWSE222 AAH*012*02 lntro to Art History- 2 Matthew, L. ARTS 215 ters ar MTH*056*01 Geometry of Nature Frame, M. STZH 106 ACC*010*01 Survey ofAccounting Fisher, I. HUMN 110 .of son MTH*140*01 Linear Algel>ra Johnson, B. BAIL300 AMU-..021 *01 Music History & Lit 2 McMullen, D, ARTS 313 exact!~ PHL*012*01 Reason & Experience Ludwig, J. ARTS 109 ANT\:067*01 East Asian Development/Society Reynolds, B. SSCI 014 meant PHY*042*01 Ideas of)Aodern Physics Topor, N. NWSE114 BI0*165*01 Neural Circuits & Behavior Olberg, R. BAIL102 point. PSC*084*01 Political Sociology Weiner, T. SSCI103 CLS*'032*01 Religion inthePagan World Scullion, J.S. HUMN 112 specth RUS*011*01 Basic Russian 2 Poweii-Sapienza HUM.N 113 CLS*051*01 Sem:Aiexander the Great Toher, M. HUMN 213 during SOC*124*01 Political Sociology Weiner, T. SSCl103 I' EC0*014*01 East Asian Development/Society Reynolds, B. SSCI014 necess SPN*120*02 fntennediate Spanish 1 Camacho, L SSCf014 EG0*141*01 Monetary Economics Kwok, c. SSCI-012 sororit SPN*121*01 Intermediate Spanish 2 Moyano, P. HUMN 117 EGL \021*01 Major English Authors 3 Frazier, A. HUMN 115 oneho EGL.,..035*01 Studies .in World Lit Heinegg, P. SSCI016 onewi MONDAY, MARCH 16, 1998 • 4:30-6:30 P.M. GE0\:025*01 Tectonics Garver, J. I. BUTR 201 ing dri CSC*010*01 Computers & Co111puting Almstead, L STZH 106 MTH*028*01 ProiJability Bowman, R.A. BAIL 106 beer) i CSC*010*02 Computers & Co111puting Hedrick, J. HUMN 019' PSC\'012*01 Intra International Politics Brown, C. SSCI104 is mea CSC*010*02 Computers & Co111puting Hedrick, J. HUMN 019 PSC*'062*01 Supreme Court&Judicial Politic Fox, R. SSCI112 frat em PSC*162\'01 Political leadership in Amer Underwood, J. SSCI110 frat em TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 1998 • 9:0().11 :OOAM. PSY*()1 0*04 lntro to Psychology Ruboriis, A. :BAIL207 typical AAH*012*01 lntro Art History- 2 Eyerman, C. ARTS 215 PSY*050*01 Educational Psychology . . Paludi, M. BAIL201 810*010*02 Biology 1 Vi/Lab Fleishman, L. SSCI014 PSY*!J62*01 Practicum in Human Relations 1 Dowling, T. BAIL312 ally m< era! 810*012*02 Biology 2 Vi/Lab Minorsky, P. COLC Sec< BI0*147*01 Immunology w/Lab Lauzon, R. HUMN 014 THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 1998 • 1:00·3:00 P;M. 810*170*01 General Endocrinology Butterstein, G NWSE 116 CER*152*01 Environmental Engg 1 w/Lab Gremillion, P. STZH 106 dents e CER*142*01 Soil Mechanics w/Lab Ghaly, A. BUTR 300 CHM*010*01 Fund Chemistry 1 w/Lab Hagerman, M. HUMN 019 nights· CHM*182*01 Protein Biochemistry w/Lab Fox, K. STZH 106 CHM*010*02 Fund Chemistry 1 wJLab Carroll, M. HUMN 019 toknm CHN*011*01 Basic Chinese 2 Feng, J.P SSCI213 CHM*032*01 Organic Chemistry 2 w/Lab Sowa, J. BUTR 204 tion is EC0*131*01 Topics in Microeconomics Schmidt, S.J. SSCI110 CHM*032*02 Organic Chemistry 2 w/Lab Hull, L. BUTR 204 other t EGL-022-01 Major American Authors MacDonald, B. . HUMN 117 EC 0\04 2*0 1 · Macro Theory & Policy Kwok, C . SSCI103 Doesn ESC*025*01 Electric Circuits w/Lab Fatic, V. . NWSE210 IMP*012*01 lnt Math/Physics,2w/Lab Barbanei!Reich NWSE 112 lection FRN*120*01 Intermediate French 1 Scheuer, A. HUMN 112 IMP*012*02 fnrMatlliPhysics 2 w/Lab Barbanei!Reich NWSE 114 needst FRN*132*01 SUJvey:French Lit 2 Dogbe, C. HUMN 119 MTH*017*01 Calculus IV:IntegraiVector Zulli,L BAIL 106 inorde GER*120*01 Intermediate German 1 Giguere, U. HUMN 116 term, '' GER*121*01 Intermediate German2 Giguere, U. HUMN 116 FRIDAY, MARCH ZO, 1998 • 9:00•11:00 A.M. ful and GRK*011*01 Principles oi Greek 2 Mace, S. HUMN 213 AAH*034'01 19th Century Euro Paint/Sculpt Eyerman, C. ARTS215 as ave HST*019*01 Amertca between the World Wars Henry, S. SSCI104 ANT*018*01 Applied Anthropology Schaefer, J.G. SSCI110 HST*056*01 History of Poland Berk, S. HUMN 115 CER*129*01 Analysis & Design of Structure Mafi, M. BUTR 109 HST*078*01 Classical Africa Miller, A.T. SSCI010 CHM''012*0j Fund Chemistry 2 w!Lab Werner, T. BAIL 106 HST*084*01 The Scientific Revolution Sargent, S. HUMN 114 CHM*012*02 Fund Chemistry 2 w!Lab Lou, K. BUTR 204 JPN*011*01 Basic Japanese 2 Wojnovich, ·M. ARTS 210 EC0*148*01 Seminar: Econometrics Schmidt, s.J. HUMN 014 LAT*011*01 Principles ofLatin 2 Scullion, J.S. hiUMN 110 EER*118*01 Digital Computer Design w/Lab Traver, C. STZH 106 MER*062*01 Thermal Energy Conversion Wicks, F. NWSE222 ESC*021'01 Mechanics I w/Lab Anderson, AM NWSE205 MTH*099*01 lntro to Logic & Set Theory Taylor, A. STZH108 FRN*144*01 Exoticism Curran, A. tiUMN 113 PHL*159*01 Post Mod~rnism · Patrik, L. SSCI105 HEB'OW01 Basic Hebrew 2 Almog, M. HUMN 116 PHY*016*01 Physics!Life Scie11ces 2 w/Lab Marr, J. NWSE 114 HST'129*01 African-American Thought Miller, AT. SSCI103 PHY*051*01 lnterm Modern Physics w/Lab McWhirter, J: NWSE328 LAT*145;,01 Cicero Meckler, M. I:IUMN 119 PSC*013*01 lntro to Political Tllought Boqrd, J. SSCI112 MTJ-1*124*01 Geometry Frame, M. SAIL 100 PSC*033*01 20th Cent A mer P<Jiit Thought Marso, L. SSCI012 PHL'038*01 Eastern Philosophy Patrik, ~. HUMN 112 PSY*010*02 lntro to Psychology Benack, S. BAIL207 PHL*174*01 Biomedical Ethics Baker, R. riUMN 1.17 PSY*010*03 Intra to Psychology Donaldson, G. BAIL201 PHY*052*01 lntermed Classical Mechanics Maleki, S. STZH 108 PSY*033*01 Psychology of Memory/Thinking Burns, D.J. BAIL312 PSC*139*01 Seminar:Polilical Theory Marso, L. SSGI105 PSY*038*01 Developmental Psychology Stanhope,L BAIL300 PSY*030'01 Personality Morling,B. BAIL 312 SPN*010*02 Basic Spanish 1 Osuna, M. BAIL 106 RUS*132*01 Russian Literature 2 Poweii-Sapienza HUMN 213 SPN*130*01 lntro:Spanish & Spn Amer Lit Moyano, P. BAIL 100 SOC'037'01 Social Movements/Interest Grps Willison, M~ NWSE222 TUESDAY. MARCH 17, 1998 ·1 :00•3:00 P.M. FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 1998 ·1:00·3:00 P.M. ANT*010*01 Cultural Anthropology Cool, L. HUMN 110 EC0*012*01 Introduction to·Economics Schmidt, S.S. SSCI016 810*072*01 Preserving BiodivErsity w/Lab Schadler, M. BAIL 100 EC0'012*03 Introduction to Economics Schmidt, S.S. SSCI 016 EC0*020*01 Intra to Statistical Analysis Okeeffe, M. HUMN 014 ITL*010*01 Basic Italian 1 Faustini, G. SSCI 014 EC0*031*01 Microeconornic Analysis Reynolds, 8. $SCI 104 ITL\'010*02 Basic Italian 1 Faustini, G. SSCI 014 EER*148*01 Digital Circuits Hassib, E. NWSE222 PHY*017*01 General Physics 1 Dunn, J. NWSE116 EGL*046*01 Modern Drama Frazier, A. HUMN 112 PHY*01T'02 General Physics 1 Dunn, J. NWSE300 ESC*017*01 Fundamentals ofEng/CS 2 w/Lab Almstead, L. NWSE 114 PHY*017*03 General Physics 1 w/Lab Khosropour, R. NWSE 114 ESC*017*02 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 2 w/Lab Bucinell; R NWSE116 PHY*018\01 General Physics 2 w/Lab Jones, C. NWSE304 ESC*017*03 Fundamentals of Eng/CS 2 w/Lab Macherone. B. NWSE210 PHY~018*02 General Physics 2 w/Lab Topor, N. NWSE304 ESC*017*04 Fundamentals of Eng!CS 2 w/Lab Wolfe, F.A. NWSE110 PHY\'18*03 General Physics 2 w/Lab Rodriguez, G. NWSE328 GE0*020*01 Mineralogy w/Lab Hollocher, K. BUTR 201 SPl\1*011*01 Basic Spanish 2 Torres, B. HUMN'114

Opinions Sorority Rush: A Good Opportunity by Michelle VanderLo()n Contributing Writer By now,.studentsare probably tired of hearing about Rush! However, I offer a differl;!nt perspective ... a posi- tive look at this process. This will be my fottrth year as .a participant of Rush. My first year, I was a Rushee and for the past three years, a soror~ ity sister. Each year, it seems that a lot of freshmen have many pre-conceived notions ofwhat Rush is before they even experience it. And that is sad! This is especially fueled by accounts. from others who have already expe\ rienced it and articles and cartoons that have been featured in ournews- paper_ It's not faitto the Rushee! One person's experience can be totally different from· someone else' S\ It is what you make of it. Someone with an open mind who puts a lot of thought into her decision may have a more positive experience than some- one who is pessimistic or participat- ing mainly for the food and social experience of it. Gossip makes it dif- ficult for one to have an open mind and it creates confusion so as to make the Rushee's experience seem over- whelming. I understand that the Concordiensis is a vehicle for the freedom of speech. As a political science m~jor, I greatly value that opportunity. However, I think a cartoon like the one featured last week, entitled \sorority lib,\ is somewhat offensive to sorority sis- ters and can really taint one's view .of sorority life in general. I'm not exactly sure what the message was meant to convey. That is a moot point. It essentially presents a per- spective that at this period of time, during the Rush process, is really not necessary. The dramatization of three sorority girls slouched on a couch; one holding her crotch, one burping, one with a beer gut, and all three hold- ing drinks (which l am assuming are beer) is crude and false. And ifthis is meant to,compare sorority rllsh to fraternity Rush, it is offensive to the fraternity Rush as well. It is stereo- typical to men in fraternities and re- ally makes a mockery of Rush in gen- eral Secondly, I think that some stu- dents envision Rush as a fewhur.ried nights where women are forced to get to know one another. One main ques- tion is hQw can one truly know an- other through such an atmosphere? Doesn't this foster a superficial se- lection on both sides? I think one needs to take a different view ofRush in order to answer this question. The term, \Rush\ itself implies a stress- ful and \rushed\ situation. However, as a veteran of Rush, I see it as a lot more than that. For most houses, it begins as soon as we step on cam pus in the fall. Sorority sisters are con- stantly meeting prospective Rushees through ~ports, classes, and friends. Therefore, unless one has been trapped in a bubble, so to speak, for the fall term, the \process\ of getting to know one another does not jUst tah: place within the seven or eight nights of Rush. Let us look at the concern o.f \small talk.\ Rush is an experience that is dependent on what YOU make efit. This is just like the college ex- perience. You can sit in your room and study all day or get your butt on the Rugby field or in the Concordy oflice. Additionally, a conversation takes two people. Both people have equal power to steer the conversation's direction. This is a. skill that as college students, we should master anyway. If one feels that there is too much small talk, .speak up in yom conversation. Vol- unteer information about yo1:1rself or change the topic to something that interests you. The conversation shouldn't be the soul responsibility of the sorority sister. Ask questions about the sorority. I assure you, sis- ters would love to talk about what ideals· the house stands for, social and community events, or what sisters do on campus. Just as it is important for us to place a face with aname, it is important for you to place our faces, interests, and a sense of who we are as a house with our sorority name. Additionally, in response to a com- ment in a previous article, the focus on specific questions to ask like one's stance on world .hunger and racism makes the whole conversation pro- cess superficial. Wouldn't it be more natural to flow with a conversation than to script what to say? I think people can get too hung up on what to talk about. The genuineness of a conversation comes from the fact that it is not planned. It's nice to have a direction in the conversation, but aside from that it becomes insincere. Also, asking a Rushee about racism in particular puts her on the spot The object is to relax, isn't it? In looking at the seeming rigidity of Rush, one needs to keep in mind that those \rules\ and organizational plans like attendance are meant to protect the Rushee and the sorority from an unfair situation. What if, on _a night of Rush, a Rushee got con- fused and joined a different group by accident? This is why taking atten- dance is important. In a situation where there are over one hundred women, it becomes necessary for or- ganization. The established time pe- riods in each house are so that every- one can get a fair chance in seeing the houses and in getting to know the sisters. It would be chaotic t{) allow every.one to visit whatever house they wamted to, whenever they wanted to. These houses are where sisters sleep, study, and live. They aretheir homes and it would be inconvenient for · Rushees to visit whenever. they . pleased. Panhellenichasdone a hello fa job . trying to make Rush more comfort- able and fair for Rushees and the so- rori.(ies. In response to a previous ar- ticle which emphasized that Rush was . too rushed, this year Rush is spread out over a period of three week.s. My freshman yea~, it was a week l.ong process. Three weeks is more than enough time to mak.eadecision about a house. Additionally, in response to the same article, perception is t:very- thing. The comment that one feels like \cattle being herded through the houses and passed from one sister to the next so they can look us over and flatter us with small talk,\ is a pretty superficial statement. Persona).)y, my goal isn't to 1latter anyone. My goal is to get to know the Rushee. As for passing one Rushee to the next, we are n()t par- ticipating in a Rugby or Fo<Jtball game. We don':t pass people around the room. We intn>duce them to an- other sister so that one can m~et as many peopleaspossible so astolorm a better picture of the house as a whole. I also haven't herded anyone lately. This is college, not a ranch. I think we need to take a step back from the gossip, stereotypes, and quick judgments that art: so often be- stowed upon Rush It doesn't need to be an overwhelming process, but that is up to the individual. Look at the big picture- the opportunity to join a family with a common bond of sisterhood, notjust the family <Jfthe sorority, but of the Greek system as a whole. I encourage Rushees to partidpate with an open mind and a positive at- titude. It seems a little premature to make a judgment call on rush aflcr only three nights of parties. I ·have been participating in this process for four years now. llook at.it as a great study break, an opportunity to meet interesting people with diverse tack- grounds, and a way for the sororities to join together in a common goal of promoting the Greek system as a whole at Union. The benefits ofjo ining such an in- stitution are outstanding- a common voice on campus, alumni and sister- hood connections, community ser- vice opportunities, social events, liv- ing in a home rather than just a dorm, and representing the high ideals()fthe Greek system. So, relax, .think posi- tive, and have fun! Letters Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 p.m. tlte Monday llefore blication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that concerns the Union College munity. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board All must be signed and saved on a high density disk although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper, fthe writer so specitles. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and no one member in particttlar. Any OJlinion or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Advertisements appearing in The Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. The Concordiensis is printed by World Media, 1104 Central Avenue, Albany, NY, 12205. The Concord/ensis ISUIJSCJriD(:sto the Intercollegiate Press (IP), National Student News Service, & King Syndicates. Communica on, or. In all aspects of a bureaucracy, be it a government agency, a corpora- tion, or a college, communication betweenall parties is a key to success. However, the art of communication oftentimes is forgotten in each of these bureaucracies. At Union, a lack of comm un.ication was a cause for \dis- union\ this past weekend. The \dry weekend\ and dosing ofthe fraternity houses on campus was not brought up to neither the In.terfratemal C()uncil (IFC) nor to the Stu- dent Forum. Instead, it was pushed on the campus by the Deans and other administrators as a means of punishment fora .. campus-wide drinking prob- lem. This infuriated many Gveeks, as well asilildepe!'ldents, who felt that they were being punished for a problem that allegedly has been brought on by the freshmen class. Rather than signal to the strength of GAMMA. (Greeks Advocating the Mature Manageme11t of Alcohol) andothergroups attempting to rectify the probiem, the administration chose to do some- thing that is entirely within its right- shutdown the campus party scene for the weekend. However, what the administration could have done is told the IFC and the Student Forum, both of whom meet on Monday nights, that the>' thought that ''.drying out\ the campus for the weekendvvas a good idea, instead of not consulting either organization. If they ilad been consulted, it is cer- tainly possible that not only would there have been more support for it by a large portion ofthe campus (Greeks), but tbe hollses might have attempted to plan non-alcoholic events like the \coffee night\ the Coffee House held on Friday night or band that played at FiJI or the ''\open mic\ at Psi Upsilon on Saturday night. Instead, the attitude oflJnion students was one of anger and annoyance, rather than of acceptance o.fthe weekend. If more events would have been planned, perhaps less ofthe student body would have gone home, out to Capitol Region bars, or spent the evening drinking in their dorm rooms. Monday night, the Program Assistants of the Student Activities Office asked the IFC to not throw any parties or \open up\ on February() or 7, the weekend of the Winter Carnival. The houses voted unanimously to com- ply with the request. The following questionthen arises: Would the IFC have voted not to \open up\ last weekend iftfley had been asked to by the administration? The answer is probably yes, if the administration had ex- plained the their reasons. Nobody on this campus wants to see anyone go to the hospital for exces- sive drinking. Programs like GAMMA, which is endorsed by the Student Forum, helps to communicate tile concerns of drinking .to the entire cam- pus from hoth the administrative and student points of view. Establishing strong lines of communication between students and the administration is essential to solving the alcohol problem whicn affects the entire campus. POINTLESS OBSERVATIONS by David Kay Staff Writer Wow. One whole weekend with- out beer. I feel so deprived. Taking beer and fraternities away from stu- dents here is like taking away life support from a dying AIDS patient. I was just thinking, if we didn't have frats here, things would be so dreary and dull that people might just start jumping off the top of the Nott Me- morial. Sure, no one would die from alcohol poisoning, but I'm sure a whole bunch would die from a lack of alcohol. Maybe the Dean should come out sometime to one of the frats and po\lnd a lew back with the boys. He just might change his mind about the whole frat scene around here. \What? Someone went to the hospitai?No big deal, happens all the time.\ Maybe he could even be part of this year's pledge class at DU or Beta. \Union Going Dry.\ From what I heard, this story made news aU around Schenectady and Albany last week. I guess it's a big deal for a school like us to halt the whole beer wagon for two days. Surprising as it is to imagine, there are some schools that have banned frats all together. Though it is a little strange for us, I guess I'd have to give Dean Alford the big Dave Kay Seal of Approval for taking a stand against all the hos- pital incidents that have been happen- ing lately. Next time something like this happens, though, there should be something to do besides tiddely winks and spin the bottle. You know what, I'm sick and tired already ofthe promotional crap that people are writing in this paper sup- porting \all of the good\ that the Greek system does. Let's face it-the main objective of a fraternity is to provide free beer for the entire school on the weekends. Last week there was a whole page devoted to making frats look good. It's not exactly 'like the main objective ofjoining a fraternity is to do community service or some~ thing. People join fraternities so that they can make the next three years of their life a neverending pa:1ty. Is it that big of a deal to come out and tell the truth about something like this? I'm also really sick of being stuck in the Opinions section. Who reads Opinions anyway? It's like giving my column a life sentence in nell. Opin- ions is the section where professors who have too much spare time write in and say how they were irked be- cause some story wasn\t grammati- cally con·ector they found a misspell- ing here or there. HQw pati1etic. I de- mandthat I be moved to a section that peop]e actually read. You know what's kind of funny is President Clinton. I don't know who that guy thinks he is shagging some twenty year old bimbo and then try- ing to c<1ver it up. I guess with a name like Lewinsky, he thought she would be to<> dumb to say anything about it just because she's Polish. Now for the letters dept.: \What the dillio is up with that library construc- tion?' I'm sick of traveling to my first engineering class in the morning re- covering from a hangover and listen- ing to the sound of a jack.hammer. I don't really like looking over there either \Nhen those guys are bending over. I tll.ink a few of them were re- frigeratorrepainrten before they were constmction workers.\ I agree, those workers have defi- nitely Vlorn their welcome and I'm also pretty sure that the project was supposed t<J be over by 11ow. I also find refi\igerator repairmen revolting. \Thank <Jod you're in the Opin- ions section. Now it will be hard for any()ne to find you and people will stop reading the garbage that you write every week.\ Yup, I guess that was the master plan made by the top level people of this staff, but l have to live with it and hope that people will still read my material. Well, my column is drawing to a close. Make sure to keep sending let- ters to F.O. box# 1 05S. Make sure to send first person narrati\'es of AA meetings as well as nights at Ellis HospitaL E-Mail Us. You~ Tb,?ughts or Answers ·to Ou~ Question of the Week to concot·dy,@vu.uni<iiJ.ed~

·The Minerva Review Seeks Submissions For t:he 1998 Ed.ition Papers Must Be: . Between 5 and 15 Pa.ges Long· . About Any Subject, Within Any 'Discipline . Written in English, Not a Foreign Language . Sent in Hard Copy and on a Computer Disk • (indicate name, .computer type, and program on disk) Dan Student Activities Saturday 9 : 3 0pm Upper Class The Entire Campus is Welcome! Q ~ I. 0 b b e n 11 t.l t~ n e e n s: t] ~ c c i I n s: d fl p ~ 1'1 e k VI SJ tl d '\ 1'1 ll p s p S.< tl l i VI y 1'1 c a k Sl 1'1 Sl e v a T I a: I 0 H P' ll ir tc: li sl 0 tl a1 n, fl li

TAKING NANJING _BY STORM ... FROM JIN LAOSHI ro Fo BoY by Michelle Tham F eat~res Editor by Pike Moay (Mo'Di'Lei) Staff Writ~r This is quite possibly the m9st difficult article I've ever had to write. I have to sum up what was the most amazing experience of my life in a few short paragraphs. I was one of twelve Union students that decided to embark on the term abroad in China, with().ut any prior No, I didn't get any voicemail pumping i11ecstatic warmth don't knowledge of the Chinese Ian- or email or anything in 'my mail· mean mud1.ifwe can't call up our guage. Yeah, that's what l said to box today. best friend and tell every last de- myself on the plane on the way Messages from Systems Distri- tail. My fin~erswouldjurnptothe . over: what am I doing going to bitiion don't count(neither do any keyboard, ,gushing out my story China when I can't tetl a pijiu from email forwards. about adding up onto the screen. And thanks to the ·a baijiu (a distinction that some numbers and getting an elephant power of cyberspace .... my best nice gentle.man made. for Jeremy i.n denmark ... you know what I am friend in Ct>rnell could hear the Soboleski and myself the first time tatking ~bout). And for that mat- gist of my entire we~kend in a few we went out). Yeah, it was a crazy. ter, those brightly colored an:- minutes. choice for all of us totnake, but if nouncements for som~ obscure So, whe11 I first came to schqol not now, then when am I ever go- event on,campus don't do it for me last year, ]always had \new mail\ ing to spend anytime in China. either. and that lo\ely lady on the tele- Two things became very clear I thrive on getting packages in phone alwctys told me that I had, as soon as we arrived in Nanjing. rny mailbox or little email mes- \3 new messages.\ It seems that The first was that Union left us sages from friends. The phone is as I have gotten older here at mttch freedom in deciding our t.he first thing I reach for when I Union, I have also slowly lost con- classes at the University ( espe- vvalk through the door; so that I tact with th.()se outside the perim- cially since they started a week cau punch in *6688. And re- eter walls. But I also think that mY prior to our arrival) and second that c~ntly, I have been seriously lack- friendships here can mak.e up for we all had a desire to travel exten- i ng in the new .----~----------, that loss, con versa- sively. It was a three month op- mail, new mes- tions are usually portunity to capitalize on both as- \ The thing is,. sages area. better in person pects of the term fully. As for So,thatiswhy email, anyway. Talking classes,wewerescheduledfortwo days like today through a com- in Chinese language, one spoken feel absolutely voicemail and puter or telephone and one written, which met every- pathetic. Days th t t canfeelterriblyar- dayfromS-11:30. when I write, . a eeny tificial. For our third class were asked mom and dad an mailbOX ·are my Yet we all still to pick a facet of Chinese civiliza- email because I have that tionthat we wanted to learn about links to the know that they feeling ... leaving and then set up classes with an in- will always re- OUtside WOrld. the room for 5 min- structor. There were many options ~pond. And then utes to walk down open to us, from Tradi_tional Chi- tllose four won- Things that the hall and rush- nese Medicine and Acupuncture, derful words, .r-h th ing back to check calligraphy, painting, breathing '\you have new reaJJlrm e our voicemail. It's (unfortunately for Brian Holland mail,\ will pop fact that I am almost an obses- this class was closed) and music. up on my com- · sion. Logging into • What I and a majority of my fel- puter screen. actually afive. '' email from any Io- low Americans decided to learn, Seei11g that little cation, taking a however, was martial arts. Why ph rase always longer path home no~ right? We're in China, lets sends a little jolt of excitement from class so that we can stop by learn some Kung Fu. through my body. the collegecenterto open that little While most students opted to. I know it'skindofsadto base a mailbox. take multiple civilization classes, I ittle part of my existence on These are all things tllat defined I was the only one dumb enough whether or not I get email or my l·ife when I first got to school. to try and take all three martial arts. voicemail or even letters. in the But I Will have to admit that the Although I returned to the dorm- mail. But how other way can I urge has started to fade. Maybe after'each class absolutely soaked chec:k to see if I actually exist tO\ that is because my home friends to tile bone, it was one of the most anyone else? I mean, it's great to can now write me only once a . wildexperiencesofmy life. ThO\Se know these things myself...but week instead of everyday and l of tis who took martial arts, we sometimes it's just nice to feel like still feel close to them. learned from two of the most my presence actually matters to The funny thing, though, is the amazing instructors I have ever someone else (besides my par- effect that new mail or voicemail had, Li and Jin Laoshi. Li Laoshi ents). The thing is, email, messagescanstillleaveot1mylife. is around 38 years old, but he voicemail and that teeny mailbox It just always brings a smile to my doesn't look a day over 25. He is are my links to the outside world. face when someone actually takes versed in every form of Kung Fu Things that reaffirm the fact that the time to send me a little hello, that Donny Tam and I could re- I am actually alive. whether o~er the phone or the member from the old movies we It's a strange thing to think computer. And actual han<!written . watched as kids. Tiger, Dragon, a:bout; .the fact that we sometimes letters are particularly spectacular. . Eagle, Drunken Monkey ... you only exist through other people. Honestly, it's like a little spurt of name it and he could show yqu Humans are social creatures. Ex• happiness every time. These are how it was done. As a former pu- periences that define us and shape things that l can still count on. pil of Jin Laoshi, he learned from liS into people, all stem back 'to They add s<Jme excitement to an who I believe is a true master of i11teractions with others. The in- otherwise l>othersome day. the martial arts. tensity of both happiness and pain I suppose I will grow out of the Jin Laoshi may quite possibly lie in their uncanny ability to be obsessiveness of check.ing my have been one of the coolest shared with a friend or a brother mailbox every second, btlt the joy people I have ever met. At 60 ()rsister. indoingitjuststemsfromthefact years of age his flexibility, Without that innate social link thatthe anticipation of getting mail strength, and concentration tl1ctt we hold to other people, we (in any form) lends a little bit of. dwarfed me everyday, even ifi did flre merely faceless creatures, with hope to my days. It's a silly thing, stand about eight inches taller and no hearts and no vibrance to de- but it's also a simple; enjoyable about eighty pounds heavier than fine us. pick-me·Uj) that always works. I him. It was Jin Laoshi that taught Tllose wonderful events in our do love anything that makes me . myself; Jordanna Mallach, and a proficient sword fighter. It was a tough ksson. He spoke only a few words ofEnglish, like \again~' \good\, and \'no no, no\ (I usu- ally heard' the first and third much more often than the second), but , he taught i:lS a lot in terms of the mental asj)ed of martial arts. Al- though we were there for only a short wh,ite, by the time we left it was possible to close your eyes and feel so foc11sed and clear that you felt as if you could concentrate forever. A..fter a while I felt like I wasn'tjustmoving around with a sword in 11'1)1 hand, but as if mov- ing with ihat sword made my whole bod~ synchronized and one. It was an f!lmazing experience for a person \Wh•o has spent his entire life in contact sports (if you read last week':s article, for me, even track isno\.N} But martial arts was only one ofthe twelve experiences that drew equal amounts of plea- sure and k11owledge in China. As for tra\el we didn't wait to try out omr Chinese skills, or in many case:s. lack there of. After arriving ,in Nanjing very late Wednesday night, we hopped a bus for Ya11gzhou on early Friday morning f0or our first of many trips. As we wer.e to learn very fast, ev- ery trip quickly turned into an ad- venture. 'rlangzhou was just the beginning. We traveled to Suzhou, Zhongzhou, Beijing, the Yellow Mountains (Huangshan);, the Great Wall, Ti ''An amen Square, the Forbidden City, The Summer Pal- ace, as well as a ton of other places that I could go on an on about. For me, the culmination of China came about in a. little trip to a place known as tlhe Three Gorges. Currentl\ in the midst of an im- mense building project that will create a hydroelectric dam with tile power of s~veral nuclear power plants, the Chinese government has seen fitt to flood the great ar- cheological relic that is the three Gorges. ltiis the home of the world famous 2()()() year old hanging cof- fins that h.ad an entire Nation.al Geographic devoted to it. After it was deemed an impractical trip during the program for the whole group to attempt, four brave souls decided th.at they were going to take on the real raw China, and go on a trip tlla·t was never anything but absoltttely crazy. We met more peopl~, learned more ab<Yut China and saw what we all came to ,aee, the China that is not mctr- keted to tourists (at least not com- pletely) th~ll anywhere else. The times the fot1r of us had on that s iJC day joume::Y would take up an ar- ticle in itself(cue possible \part I I'' next week about it). So as we move along in this saga; you may have already noticed that the classes weTe great, the traveling unlike any other I have ever done, but what i~ this \take Nanjing by Storm\ thi11g you may be asking yourselves. Well, my friends, funny you should ask. I thin:k o11e of the most amazing things about the trip to China was not so much the influence that it as a placehlld on the twelve ofus, but more !SO, how we as twelve foreignersB1ad on the place .. In the lives that leave us with hearts smile. Chip Harrison What it means to be \ ti ·': / \ . ' .:L·~ ~ ~-·: L .t ' !1. t . I \' : ~ i:'

In the interest ofimptoving my article, and giving the students of Union what they want, I have again switched gears and I .am tak- ing \Riding The Pine\ im a whole new direction. It had oc<eurred to me last week while I was walking from class to class that we as a stu- dent body really don',t know a whole lot about our professors. So for the next thre.e weeks I will run an interview that I did with Pro- fessor Mike I. Magin II. First a little history ab.out good old Pr:of. Mike I. Magill II. Pro- fessor Mike I. Magin Il bas been teaching at Union for the last 30 years in the Classics Department. He graduated from Harv<trdwhere he earned his Ph.D. in an amazing one and a half years. Frort1 Harvard he went Gn to teach at Yaloe but was fired for having an affair with the Dean of Student Affairs wife. This is when at the age of26, Mike I. Magin II began teaching here at Union College. The Interview: Part I R. T.P.- Professor, wha1 can you tell me about your first .<Lay about teaching here at Union( Prof. Magin- It was the fall of 1977 that I had my first class teach- ing The Rise and Fall ·of the Ro- man Empire. I was so nervous that I really wet my pants. Right in front of the entire class. lt certainly put a strain on the teacher ... student relationship for that class. R.T.P-Do you mean to tell me that you urinated in your pants? Prof. Magin- Yes, right in front ofthirty freshmen I lost control. R.T.P-Moving on, Prof. about how many classes have you taught over your 20 years here? Prof. Magin- About 45, in the mid-80's there was a real crisis in the Classics department. There were only four of us. Not that it mattered, we were only teaching about seven classes a year. The school gave us all tenure. They did this to try to attract more Pro- fessors and more students to be- come interested in Ancient His- tory. All kids cared about was money and becoming lawyers and doctors. R. T.P-So are that the atthudes of the stuaents are differ- ent today than say about fifty years ago. Prof. Magin. N(), I am not say- ing that. Students still want money and a hell of a lot ()f it when they graduate, but they ate turning to different fields to study. The Clas- sics department here at Union might have see11 the biggest jump in people being majors. R.T.P- Db you tllink any of this has to do with the General Educa- · tion and making kids take a his- tory? Prof. Magin- To tell you the truth, I don't think so. I voted . against General Education, it has its merits, but overall I think that it puts too much pressure on the stu- · dents. R.T.P~ I thit1k that most stu- dents,. while interested .in your aca- demic career, reaHy want to know more about your social life. What do you do in your spare time? Next week tune in to find out about Mike I Magin TI's sociall·ife in P<lrt II of the lnte.rview. The Rathskellar ... by Jirn DeWan Co11tributing Writu Ever open up the pages of the Concordy, and find you.-self im- mersed into a world of writing where most of the space is taken up by whining? Whining that you don't particularly care f<H? Over the past term, I have grown fed up with this whining, so I ffigured it was time something should be done; In this column, and ho0pefully every week from now on, l 'd like to take the spotlight offwllat stinks around this campus, and f()cus on what's good at Union. Come on, this place isn't that bad. lleck, it's filled with great people, we just need to look for them sometimes. This past week, I had the oppor- tunity to sit down with the: new as- sistant manager ofthe Ratllskellar, Jim Dunn. As the Rathskoellar is a retail operation, Tom KeUy is the manager, but Dunn runst:hejoint. Since his arrival last Oct()ber, he has made a tremendous effort to maintain and impro\Ve the Rathskellar as a shining star in the often du II microcosm oftJ nion we call Dining Services. I sat down not knowing his background and the tremendous vision and goals he has for the Rathskellar. Dunn has e11joyed cooking since the time he was young, and graduated from Schenectady County Community College with a degree in Clllinary Arts, and worked in the re~taurant , ... That's Go·od Stu business for five years, before go- in musical venues, and when the ing back to school. weather permits, to host activities This past summer, Dunn gradu- and parties on tile patio. New this ated from Oneonta State with a de- term is the plan to stay open late gree in Food and Business. Then, every Thursday 11ight for NBC's on October I 51 , he took over for \Must See TV,'~ >Nith specials on Theresa as assistant manager. the chicken parms and mozzarella Since then, he has revit!llized the sticks that we all love. spirit within the community and On a personal level, Dunn says the staff at the Rathske llar. He that his favorite rnenu items are the says that from the time he inler·· cheese sticks a11d the chicken viewed. here, he felt a \mystique\ parms. He says that carving tables of the Rathskellar, that it has, a11d is all but encouraged, and it adds always should be a fun and excit. to the atmosphere. I was disap- ing social alternative for the stu- pointed to find out that his favorite dents here. He has continue<! and game is Lethal Enforcers, as op- begun m;my new programs to con- posed to _Arkanoid,.the personal fa- tinue this tradition. vorite of yours truly. I asked him The most noticeable difference if he had any plans to pursue legal at the new Rathskellar is the cos- action against Burger King; as they metic differences. Dunn has added introduced new fries not less than two brand new color televisid1ls, one month after the Rathskellar did; purchased a foosball table, and just but he just kincl of laughed and this month, his mother came in and looked at me fu!lny. painted a picture <?f a rat on the He also says tl1at he will not take door of the women's and men's part in the nickname war, as to room. He told me that just today whether the pro per nickname he purchased frames, and would sltould be the \Rat\ or the l-ike to frame pictures of sports \'Skellar like many have been teams and clubs at Union to hang known to do, bllt re-enforced the on the wall. He said that teams mascot _is the actllaiRat, painted on willing to donate an autographed the walls, doors. T-shirts, and ball or something similar should mugs. contact him. Finally, Dunn etJjoys working Not only have the.cosmetics·of with all ofthe staff, as they areal- the Rathskellar improved, but ac- · most like a family. He just encour- tivities are popping. up left and ages students to stop by, to have a right. Last October, there was the good time, and enjoy themselves. first ever Rathskellar Halloween See? There are some good things party. This past Sunday, they around this colle-ge. So, the next hosted a Super Bovvl party with time you stop by the Rathskellar, deals on wings, chili, and pizza appreciate one o:fthe many good bread. Dunn also hopes to bring things at Union, Jim Dunn. BEAUTIFUL DI.SASTERS Icy Ti~nes at .. Union College by Matt Aronowitz Staff Writer First of all, I would like to thank the dean who wrote in and changed my opinion about the Great Schedule Change Heist of '97- '98. The letter convinced me; no wait, convinced everybody that th~ change was beneficiaL It re., ally isn't that bad. I can't wait to put more money on my V.alidine, sooner than I did lastterm. I can't not drunk, I just wasn't wearing snowshoes. I think we can a<ld the Great Icey Walkway H~ist of'97- '98 to the Jist of things that 28K a year can't get. \I pay $28,000 a year to go here and they can't af- ford a damn (fill in grievance here).\ How hard is it to sprinkle S()me salt? We can fill a tennis ball rna- chine with sait, have one ofthose sketchy security desk attendants go up on the Nott, and proceed to spray the entire campus. r n e'\i:en wait until they .---~~~~~-;..,..-~~--'-1 spearhead the prevent a major- petition. ity of students '~How hard is it to So what do from reversing sptin.kle some salt? We get when you the schedule canfill a tennis ball cross a dry cam- change. I am machine with salt, have pus with also completely u n shove I e d lying. Boy, Ire- one of those sketchy walks? Ellis ally need a security desk attendants trips not in- twinkie tight go liP on the Nott, and volved with al- now. proceed to spray the cohol or fresh- Anyway, how entirecampus.\ men. Therewas about that dry a point on Satur- campus this day where I sat ·.weekend, eh? It outside the was really interesting to see ~an- Reamer and watched five pe()ple dom groups ofrandom people in slip on the same slippery patch. random places. It was go()d to see I'm writing this before the paper that nobody was on tap (another comes out, but I want to see how lie). Thishasbeenalessonin life. many security incidents involved Plenty ofschools out there have a ass,-falling. Everywhere on cam- sociallife on par with this. week- pus. I 2:00am- I 2:00am. \Student end. The only thing that happens seen falling on ass. Suspect then at those schools is that every()ne said, 'Ouch.' Suspect identified just separates into little cliques and a,dvised. When confmntec;l that never socialize with each student was hostile towards derri- other. ere. Conduct charges filed. Then Here, the .cliques have a dance student proceeded to bite the leg every week to meet other people. of security officer. Student fled.\ I heard a rumor that we might be You'd think ihat with all the rich a dry campus for the whole,spring. students here, the school would be Can this school afford tobe more afraid of severe lawsuits. But the separatist than it already is? Will administration is more concerned the Fox and Davidson blocks have with our ''severe\ alcohol problem. to fence themselves in forever? Or stealing our validine. Today we As I walked around the frozen fight for out freedom. Thallx to ·tundra this weekend, I fell on my Jackie for giving me the idea for bony ass a lot of times. N<l, I was this article. UOf~ YOUR DO' DfSERO( JH( ~POTll6HT? The Union College Theatre Department inuites all dog owners to bring their dogs to an CJflen casting call for a canine role In Shakespeare's Two Gen11emen of U,erona. We are seeking friendly, well-behauedt large dogs. Rehearsals for dogs will begin on february 16, 1g~B For more inforrnati()fl, or to set up an audition time, Contact Sara at 388-5680, or Melissa at 372-1 094.. '· ·Feat c I WE colum: If you from 1: predk perBo they~ pre die spread winne cemed If Y• umnh< I coul Presid1 done i1 affair, \ldor or rna:~ Reli eryom some hopei as if I up, it's ten tny concer scary. your c• but ju: sure w l WE the Su kids C I'd me 'playini and we jam se: store (1 sure I' the wt As tl Ieavin1 taketh Theys after I and we some 1 cided over t State l them. The pretty when our w~ of Th1 people my he rium. < rock b• ics tha tained bigsig1 THE L had st1 convet sibility compa my fla: No VI liever ior, m~ tion w. War.~ andm: into so

·Features NANJING BY STORM ... (continued from page 1 1) Jon Tapper's Not-So-Mild Commentary on Current Events • city ofNanjing, we lived on Ning - c<>ated Bhudda, llut these things do of drinking on this campus; ln- • Hai Lu, or Ning Hai Road. It was happen. It wasalrm{)st like having stead of going to parties !,ike on a tlte most lively thing I have ever our own family_ They looked out normal weekend, we .could either .. seen. Tons ofbicydes, cars, rick- for us and we pro'Vided them with gotothegym ortheCoffeeHouse. · ·shaws, and motoFcycles clogging numerous storie.s ()four trials and The main seHing p.(}int of dry the streets. Where ever there tribulations as we experienced weekend was that the gym was weren't vehicles, there were China. This all cilme very appar- open until: midnight, yeu have to people, walking around, carrying e11t when it came time to return be kidding me. things here and there, haggling h()me. Grams aad Gramps got up by Jon Tapper Co~t~rihuting Writer I want to start off this week's column by saying, \l told you so.\ If you look back at my column from last week you will see that I predicted Denver to- win the Su- per Bowl. And What do ya know, they won it for me. So I didn't predict the correct score or the spread, but who cares, I picked the winner and that's all I'm con- cerned about. If you have ever read my col- umn before, you had to know that I couldn't resist talking about PresidentCiinton. Slick Williehas done it again. He had yet another affair, why is this news? · I don't condone lying under oath or making someone else lie under oath. I don't condone adultery ei- ther. Maybe I _can let it slide witlr Slick Willie because he is manied to Hillary, the ugliest women (anc:l her gender is questionable) .alive. My advice tQ him would be t() stop thinking with Little Willie and to start thinking with Big Willie. And yes 'I do think they should impeach him, why not he's n()t evenrumtingthe country anyway,. she is. So What's the big deal? Sl.lrprisingly, that about covers aU the news for the week. The Super Bowl and Little Willie dominated the national spotlight. While here on campus, there wasn't anything going on due to dry weekend. Dry weekend, now there's an issue. It isn't such a bad idea ex- cept for the factthat there were no altetnativesto supplement the lack That's another thing,the Coffee . over the price of some batteries early and opened their tiny beer House. I have to admittbat I have that look like Duracels, but only aDd soda stand to give us some never been there. But was it nee- . last 28 minutes inside Chip drinks for the road and to say essary forme to come back to my Harrison's walkman , or just sit- g<lodbye. room everyday and find annoying · ting on the curb smoking Marlboro Ratman and F:lower Lady kept messages on my voice mail every- reds that you could by for $1. piling on th<! foCJd and asking us day from them? Shops covered every inch of the when we vr<Jul<l return and visit 1 don',t think so... sides of the roads, selling mostly them. They di<ln 't seem content That about does it for me this food, but also clothing, music, until we pn>mised that we would week. ltwasaquietweek so I had . film, odds and ends, bike repair be back someday soon. Flower to improvise a little bit. materials, and any other item that L<!dy (so named btecause she sold Thank you to my mini-fan club you probably didn't really need, flow~rs, ify()u haven't guessed) (and T mean real mjni, ,like 4 or 5 but wanted anyway. It was the e'v'en fed me S()nt ething that I members, one of them being nie}. . home for people we knew as Mom, refuse to ad111it to eating, but I hear Your support knows ·no lim its. Sis, Gramps and S()-Illeone has pic- Grams, The Me- r---------~-~--, tul'es of. For my -----~-----------~------~--------~--~~-------~, chanic, Ratman, \It is the chance of a fe !low term by Heath Fradkoff Contributing Writer Religion is a touchy subject. Ev- eryone has their own opinion and some are stronger than others. I hope I don'toffend anyone: It isn't as if I don't enjoy shaking things up, it's just that I have, in fact, got- ten tnyselfinto difficult arguments concerning religion and it can be .. scary. It's bad fonn to premonitor your column at the verybeginning, but just understand that l'm not sure where this will go. I was roaming around Albany the Sunday before last with three kids Cindy, Chris, and Shoe that I'd met in a music store. I had been 'playing this beautiful upright bass and we had a little. jam session in the store (though I'm sure I was off key the whole time}. As they w leaving I asked to take their picture. They said OK after I shot a and we had talked some more; I de- cided to wa · over to Emp.i State Plaza w them. The Plaza was pretty dead bu when we made our way down to the lower level of The Egg, I saw tluongs of people and heard music. 1 poked my head inside the huge audito- rium. On-stage stood a five-piece rock band and one of the first lyr- ics that I could understand con- tained something about Jesus. A big sign behind them read\LJVIN' THE LIFE.\ I realized then that I had stumbled across a Christian convention. Recognizing the pos- sibility for adventure, I bid my new companions farewell, charged up my flash, and dove right in. Now, being a Jew and a non-be- liever in Jesus Christ as my sav- ior, my first priority in this situa- tion was to avoid starting a Holy War. As I said before, my mouth and my opinions have gotten me into some trouble in the past and I figu.red this would be the worst p()ssible scenario for such a con .... frontation. I just roamed around and made pictures. No one really seemed to mind me or my cam- era. Everyone was having a good' time. Usually the sight of a thou- sand-or-so people dancing and singing to music fills my heart with excitement, but the religious con- text it made me kind of edgy- stranger in a strange land, and all that jazz. 1 came_l!cross these two sitting on the st~ps. They looked bored. Tiley told me their names were Jesse and Sarah, ages 14 and 16, respectively. I asked them why they had come, expecting the an- swer to be something like, \Our parents made us.\ Instead, Sarah told me she was there because she wanted to start living life the way God wanted her~ r asked her if it. wasn't better to rive life the way she wanted to. Sarah said she wasn't sure about that. She figured she was too young to know what life was truly about or even what it was she wanted. She sought guidance from God to get her through. I didn't know what to make of this. On the one hand, I have a deep respect for peoplewho can believe so whole-heartedly in something that it gives them strength. On the other, 1 wonder if those same pe<Jple aren't somewhat brain- washed. Much of religion is inherited. The good majodty of usbelieve ' what we do because ofollr parents. I am Jewish because my folks are Jewish and I was raised accord- ingly. Do I know ifl might be bet- ter off as a Buddhist or a Hindu or Wicken? No. I haven't done enough searching to find out if some other religion might be more in tune with my own personal eth- ics or beliefs. I have just accepted what I have been exposed to. I .think most of us do that. Still, wars.. have b.eeri fought over this. People have been tortured and hung and burned at the stake for systems of belief that hinge on nothing more than what has been passed down from one generation to the next. This tendency of following manifests itself in susceptability hatred, rac- ism, and vio- lence- topics that · Ido n<Jt have the time or space to go in to proper ail about , but I ask you this: Take things that , you truly be- lieve, turn tJlem over in your mind then ·ask If, \Do I believe this be- cause it is some- · thing I have experienced and found to be true, or bas it been handed down to me from another . source?\ Jesse and Sarah impressed me, though. They found strength in · their belief but were not afraid to question. They underst<Jod that it was dangerous to accept things at face value yet still kept their faith. Sarah, in particular, had reason to find fdth in her religion. She told me that a cl<Jse family member had pulled herself up out from a really low pointbecause she had found God. I don 't.lmow any- . thing about the in.fusion of the \Holy··Spirit\, but if f~tith in reli- · gion helped this person pull her- selffrom the gutter, thenthat is ex- actly the purpose religion is sup- posed to serv~. Flower Lady, and abroaders, I will the ever popular lifetime and (l/l one just say, it tasted Fo Dynasty. has to do to .f([ke it is Eike a chicken and These were to forget ttll the egg sandwich, it people that we preconceive/ ideas just didn't feel like met on the streets, adticken and egg that we as \ very ,1 and spent time sa!lLIWich ... enough with day and different Clllture saad. night for the bet- h-ave, and g(} find I guess I will ter part of three out all about it for en\d this by saying months. Ratman ollltofeveryone in Y ourself'.~· would feed us '.J• China that I miss grilled mutton ev- and I think prob- ~~------------------~ ery night we came aboly misses us, no back from an outing, and he'd usu- article on the tem vvould be com- ally try to refuse payment for it be- pJete witho!lt m~ntion of Chen Qi. cause we were the main attraction Sfle was our tea:.cher, our savior, 011 the street. and- most im port:aotly, our friend. Everyone wanted to know who She is the w<>maJJ who takes care . the foreigners were. They watched and looks a.fter Union students and stared and a few begged for wllile they are in Chjn~. Ifwe had money, but most just kept an eye a problem, \Cheoc1Jers\ is the one on us because they knew were just we talked to ami she always had moments away from doing or say- the ~mazing .ability to solve what- ingsomething off the wall and fun, ever arose. She was truly an amaz- and a little comic relief was just in~ person wlJo really made China what these people needed. Every for many of us tha1 went. For all day we would eat a meal at an Ara- th()se who eml>arl to the beautiful bian noodle shop that we nick- country of China, tr~at her well, for named \The House of Fo\ (hence she will be :tile m01st valuable re- the Fo Dynasty). They looked for source and friencl y{)u can make us everyday, and often rewarded wflile you are tilere. I can only our patronage with large piles of encourage peoplet<l take this term noodles, often that we could not al>road. It is a plac:e that you may finish. We enjoyed their company never get the cha11ce to see on you and even watched black and white ovvn. I knew tllat someday I might t.v. with them once or twice, after travel in Eumpe ()rSouth America, they had closed for the night. bllt lknew tllat l pr()bably wouldn't They also had about an eight hop a plane a.nd h.eacl for China. It year old kid working there 'break- is the chance of a lifetime and all ingtables and cleaning up. He was om has to d()to t:ake it is to forget the son of one of the owners, and all the preconceived ideas that we he was always around so we nick- as a ve.ry dlfferen1 <:ulture have, named him Fo Boy (little did we and go find ()Ut llH about it for know in Chinese, it meant sugar- you.rself. ...

What do y()u get when you mix i;t:~;:;;,:,:~i,,:,il'}'(!::;;'i~:;nl together five flavors of spice, a fanner 007, N()rtn from Cheers and a big blue douhledeckerbus? You get what was perhaps the most anticipated movie of 1998. · SPICEWORLD hit the big screen with a wave ofunfavorable public- . ity for the lJeatJtiful British pop singers with critics calling for blood and lying in wait to tear it apart. The critics will find themselves • very disappe1inted, for this is the must see filmofthetenn. Combin- ing humor and drama, this is sure to be an instant Classic and wi II de- velop a cult fol:lowing, ala The Rocky Horr()r Picture Show and Spinal Tap. Priortothereleaseofthis movie, spending five·da:ys with Mel B, Mel C, Geri, Emma, and Victoria was something one could only dream · of. We fo II ow tile girls on a de- lightful ad'lenture as they gear up for their first ~v.er live concert at the Royal Albert Hall. Over the course of the five days, the girls meet Elton Jelm, have a close en- counter with strange aliens, rescue children'frorn certain death in the Thames River, deliver their ·friend's baby, reminisce about their past and pondertl1eir future. Not every- one is happy with the· five hero- ines' success, h-owever. Tired of the girls' fame that is gaining mo- mentum like a runaway freight train, someone wa11ts to bring them crashing to the ground. Newspa- . per mongrell<ev in McMaxford, employs the help of a free-lance photographer to begin the system- atic destruction of the band. If he succeeds, an the loyal fans of the band will be left in the cold outside the Royal Albert Hall. SPfCEWORLD is directed by Bob Spiers, the creative genius who brought us 1997's That Darn Cat. Steven Spielberg, look out!.!! Spiers is a definite contender for Best Director at the 1998 Academy Awards. It is Spiers' genius that makes this movie the gem it is. Each story unfolds with a passion unri- valed by any film this year. The complicated plot lines are inter- twined, creating a visual tapestry. The acting in this movie is excel- lent. Roger Moore gives a very convincing role as Chief, the owner of the Spice Girls record label. When the girls and their manager get into trouble, it is his sound and well thought out advice that saves \They perform fo·r royalty and entertain millions the world over. But now, they're making a movie~ You say you want a revolution?\ the day. Wbo would have thought that Roger M<>ore would ever find a role where he could surpass his James Bond character? George Wendt plays the character of Mar- tin Bam fie Id •. the American film producer who is hoping to cash in on the girls' success by making a movie about their adventures. Wendt is finally able to break the mold that he c~n only playthe beer guzzling Norm on the sitcom Cheers. Wendt will definitely be a front runner for the Best Support- ing Actor. As for Baby, Ginger, Posh, Sporty, and Scary, it is too bad that there can only be one win- ner of the Best Actress Award. Al- though all five deserve to win it, our vote is for Posh, because it must be really difficulttowear such tight dresses and high heels. NOWNEGATEEVERYTHING WE JUST SAID AND THAT IS OUR REVIEW! Imagine if the New Kids on the Block made a movie during their 15 minutes of fame, and that is SPICE WORLD. • Rating: l wou!Jd rather have an eroHc dream involving Sally Struthers ******** A moment forus: Here is a brief synopsis of this week's College Center movie, Kiss the Girls: Several yeung women have- mysteriously disappeared in Durham, North Carolina. Each woman is unique and special in her own way. Washington D.C. De- tective and forensic psychologist, Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman), gets pulled into the case when his niece falls victim. Two thousand miles out of his jurisdiction, Cross lends his expertise to the seemingly hopeless investi~ation. Upon ar- riving there, Cross stumbles into more than he bargained for. The only clue is found with the second body, a note signed from \Casanova\, the great lover. The local police force is stumped. The • FBI is called in. With no suspects and no le~ds, the investigation seems futile. This is one ofthe films that we reviewed last term and gave it our equivalent of3 ~stars. We highly recommend it. Lacey Brings Two Gents to Ufe at Yultnan Theatre A .. ,hort Preview of This Term's Department Production by Maura Wittbold Staff Writer This past week, Professor Will·· iam Lacey, a guest artist at Union College for the Vlinter term, held campus auditions for William Shakespeare's The Two Gentlemen ofVerona. Tllecast of eighteen is ·· .. composed of botn fresh and vet- . ''\·•\'·''f:i·''\ ........................... ........, eran faces on the stage. They in- clude Ari Gottlieb as the Duke of Milan, Amy Rilli11g as Silvia, Deric Harrington as 1'hurio, Michael Winn as E,glarnour, James Dereshinsky as Proteus, Liam Joynt as Valenti11e, Amy Beth Gelineau asJulia,Maura Wittbold as Lucetta, Ale:x Beckers as Speed, John Poor as Lau.nce, J<?shua Taub as Panthino, fi(He Leo, Chri!) Welch and Keith Hamilton as out~ Jaws, Lori Gree11e as Ursula, Stacey Caplin as the Duke's Mistress, Sandra Rodrig11es, Spencer Christie and Joshua Taub as mimes. · In preparation forth is workshop production, the cast, under the di- rection of Professor Lacey is work- ing to uncover the embedded act- ing notes within the text. One of the primary goals ofthe actors is to find Shakespeare- the director, performer, and coach in- side the play and then to use his natu- ral direction in the final product. This comedy is complete with romance, young lovers, outlaws, a wench, a fair maid, a clown, a regal duke, a saucy maid, and mimes among oth- . ers. The workshop production Will not have elaborate scenery and costumes; but will instead move the actors rn neutral space through words and physical presence, ere• ating the real it:y of the pJay and finding the truth of Shakespeare in . an exciting, innovative manner. Rehearsals this week have been primarily focused upon examina- tion of the text, \tasting .. of the words and becoming accustomed to the lan- guage of Shakespeare. . The cast is learning to let Shakespeare guid.e their mouths, emo- tions, bodies and interac~ tion with the other actors. Lori Greene '00 com- mented, \So far, working with Bill Lacey has been an amazing experi- ence. I am constantly amazed by his knowledge of Shakespeare.\ Professor Lacey has already been exceedingly successful iri exciting the entire c~stal:>9\lt exploring the genius of Shakespeare. Kim Rohback '00 added, \I feel that this is great opportunity for the stu- dents involved. Working with an expert ofProfessor Lacey's caliber is a rare opportunity for the mem- bers ofUnion College. We should feel privileged to have him (Profes- sor Lacey) on the staff for this win- ter term.\ The performance promises to be exciting and will introduce the au- dience to an exhilarating way of perceiving Shakespeare. Amy Rilling '98, said, \I think it will be a great success. I am very excited about working with a won- derfully diverse cast of new and old faces- truly an ensemble piece.\ The show opens in less than one month, on February 25th at 8pm. The performance dates are Febru- .ary 251h-2Sih and March 41h-71h. Tick- ets will be available at Yulman The- atre bo}j:.pff;ice in mid-February. . I. ti l'v is C4 dl st v. 0 al eJ in w th til th e' Ia 01 s~ d to ki tu b( l\1 in ti< as l th in. F: Tl M

pry Weekend Spurs Arts, Entertairunent We Got Free CDs & We're Not Going to Laugh at 1~hem! by Kim Rohback A&£ Editor This weekendthere were no par- ties and no alcohol on campus. Most people would think that this is a story for Campus News, but of course they are wrong. This is dbviously a stery for A & E. Union students all over campus found ways to entertain themselves with- out alcohol tl).is weekend. On Friday night at 8:30the Cof- fee House hosted Mark Werblin, also known as Dave Matthews. Despite the atrocious weather, people from aU over campus made the trek up to the Coffee House to enjoy some free entertainment and hot alcohol fr.ee beverages. Werblin announced to the crowd that he had only been playing for eight months. His performance was incredible. Werblin is MORE than welcome to come and perform at the Coffee House anytime. At 9:00PM of the same evening, the brothers of AE Pi, welcomed the campus to their home for an evening of jazz. The evening was labeled \Don' s Jazz Soiree.\ AE Pi offered fi·ee coffee, and an atmo- sphere of couches, lava lamps, and checker boards, strikingly similar to that ofthe Coffee House. Just kidding. It was wonderfhll to see every- one sitting around listening to Don and his ba!J.d accompanied by Heath Fradkotfon his bass guitar. The highlight ofthe evenil}g was Alex MilLatdlo's f!Ute solo. Milatello's solo blew the crowd away. The band was fabulous. The evening was a huge success. Once again, Don Arnold, if you're Fead~ ing this, you too are mote than welcome to come play at the Cof- fee House anytime. Kappa Alpha hosted their usual Friday night dinner. The whole campus, as always, was invited. Saturday night proyed to be more of the continued ingenuity. FIJI hosted a Beer and Cider Party, root beer of course. C.ongratula- tions to the brothers of FIJI for find- ing a creative alternative form of entertainment. A&E salutes you. Ruthie Strossberg's brother's band played for those who attended. Senior Frank Rossi said, \The band was • great. It was a great effort despite their small turnout.\ Those who did attend reportedly had a won- derful time. Psi Upsilon hosted an open mic by Lori Greene A&E Editor n.ight. Jugglers and singers per- · OK, so at the wee beginning of formed for the crowd. The evening · fall tenn, Kim received a CD from was highlighted by a perfonnance an otherwise unknown band. Th.e by the Dutch Pipers. Mark Werblin showed up to sing some more of his Dave Matthews portfolio. Con- gratl!lations to the brothers of Psi Upsilon. Arts and entertainment was the Saturday night guest. We salute your efforts to promote A&E on this dry campus weekend! Last, but certainly not least we have to thank Dean Alford for opening the gym until midnight Friday and Saturday nights. Camp Union was alive and well. Students went swimming, walking, played basketball and racquetball. Noth- ing but entertainment was to be found at the gym on both nights this weekend. Thank you admin- istration! People all over this campus found ways to entertain them- selves this weekend. It was very encouraging to see groups like, the Coffee House, Kappa Alpha, AE Pi, FIJI, and Psi Upsilon open them- selves up to the campus, and to performers. · name, we all laughed at was \Chumbawamba and the CD was • titled \Tubthumping.\ We listened and basically threw it away with- out mentioning it again. Of course, the last laugh's on us, because . they are now the hottest thing on the Top 40. We are prepared to . give you a rundown of the CDs we have received since. \Aware Five,\ the first CD I was · sent, is a compilation of various, . soon to be recognized artists. The bands include: Papa Vegas, Dor- • othy, The Push, Grand Street Cryers, Train, Trish Murphy, G(), Pat McGee Band, Blue Dogs, Dovetail Joint, River, Todd Thibaud, Gumwrapper Curb and Nineteen Wheels. The CD was de- veloped to find a means to further the goals of AWARE records, which are to find the best indepen- dent, music and bring it to the pul>- . lie. Previous compilations have featured at1ists like,. The Verve Pipe, Better than Ezra, and Hootie and the Blowfish. Michael Mehle of the Rocky Mt. News calls AWARE, \the surest way to gaze into the future of pop music.\ AWARE records isalso looking for representatives to help promote shows, act as liaisons for local news and radio stations, and help to sell the COs. For information, send e-mail to reps@awarernusic.com. · For anyone interested in the in- ternational mLisic scene, I was re- cently sent a CD from Los Reyes, entitled, \Gipsy Legend.\ Los Reyes is six men, playing banjos, guitars and tambourines. The songs are all in Spanish, but the CD includes a booklet hat trans- lates the songs into English, mak- ing it easy to understand. If you particularly like Spanish folk mu- sic, this is a great CD. Personally, I would not choose to listen to it. It's easy listening, though, with a happy beat. By far, the most interesting CD to make our collection, is called \Saws of the Woodlands.\ It is in fact, just that, a guy playing a saw, in the woods. The sound of the saw is accompanied by classical music . It is a delightful combination of melodies for easy listening. Sculpture and Drawings by Chris Duncan to be Shown at the Nott Courtesy of Unioll College Public Re/(ltions A6~tract dtawings and sculp- tures by artist Chris Duncan will be exhibited January 21 through March 6 in the Mandeville Gallery in the Nott. There will be a recep- tion and ga)lery talk by Duncan, associate professor of sculpture and drawing at Union today from 4-6 PM. The exhibit will include sculp- tures in bronze, steel, and plaster, as wen ~s charcoal drawings, and drawings that Duncan did during a three month stay in China last fall. While in China, Duncan discov- ered Chinese rice paper, ink and brushes. All were light and flexible compared to his preferred medium, steel, yet he found that working with these materials was, in many ways, like sculpting. He f~und that building layerirof line and color was like building up the surface of a sculpture. \Some of the Chinese drawings are like studies for sculp- ture, while others read as screens of giddy calligraphy,\ Duncan says. Duncan's sculptures con fran t the viewer with mass and physical presence. \I work abstractly, but I've been incorporating regular objects in the pieces. Ideally, there's some sort oftension, may be a play between representation and abstraction.\ Some of Duncan's sculptures have small, plastic toy cars embedded in them while other steel waH pieces are reminiscent of masks. \Even though the piece is made out ofindustrial material, the intent is to evoke a feeling for the body, or organic existence,\ says Duncan. The exhibit is open to the pub- lic. Hours are noon to I 0 PM., Sun- day through Thursday; and noon to 5 PM., Friday and Saturday. Admission is absoiLitely free to ali patrons! Union College Arts Building to Host Two Photography Exhibits Courtesy ofU~tion College Arts Departme11t From January 5 until Fe~ruary 16, the Arts Department wi II be show- ing An Exhibition-Selections from Fall1997 Photography students. The show will be featuring Meredith Albert, Alexandra Beuchert, Garret Brown, Suzanne Crandall, Frank Federici, Kate .Golden,Elizabeth Kaier, Leah Karp, Jeremy Lamb, Brenna Maquire, Sean Nolan, Nick Papanickolas, Sa- rah Popper, Berkeley O'Keefe, Randi Scherz, Kenny Scott, Aaron Seligman, Sarah Spaulding, Kate Swanson; Tina Tacorian; Jennifer Terzian, Michelle Tham, and Dave Waters. The exhibit contains 53 photos selected from work made in the photography classes. Also involv~d in the show are student Azul Jaffer, Professor Martin Ben- jamin, and Photo Lab Technician, Peter Baldes. Union College's Department of Visual Arts will be presenting the exhibition Then To Now: Former Photography Students Exhibit Re- cent Work opening with a recep- tion on February 12, 1998. The six photographers included in the ex- hibition are Timothy Archibal<l, Markus Feger, Mitchell Friedman, Adam Licht, Trinh Thai, and Tinct Tryforos. One example of work done previously when studying at Union will be displayed as an in- troduction to the series of recent works that each photographer is exhibiting. The exhibition contains fifty-eight photos. The exhibitiQn has been organized by Professor ·' Martin Benjamin and ends AprilS. Photo by Sarah Spaulding \Untitled\- Fall; 1997- Now Being Shown in (!nion College's Arts Atrium . Photo !)yTimothy Ardlibald \New SJteaker\ • 199 7- \Then to Now\ Fornier PhPt(Jgraphy.Studeltts' Exhibit (Starts 2112). ·~·

- ,_, WiC.UH • MHWi . l4HOURSOF FRll DRINICS! 'J nlahts from 1299! Includes RT air, hotel, 2-4 hours of ~ree drinks 1nd wukly party schedule of spring break ev•nts! Organtze 1 S freinds and WN A FREE T~IP! I I lpacellllitiJJ CIIIIWU : ~Q@@@~@~@c@~~~ : I I I REDEEM THIS COUPON AT DUTCH HOLLOW FOR THE OMELE'l'l'E OF YOUR CHOICE PREPARED FOR YOU BY ONE OF EXPERT OMELETTE MAKERS. REDEEMABLE DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY. MON.- FRI. 7:30 - 10:30 . I~ ~~~~ ! · /f\ON-111\J~S IO.llt\. - ~~~~~ ! ·• fit1 IOA/t\ ~ aAM '' SA·T UA/t\- aAM. . i ~ S'ON laP~ • IIPM SAT. - SUN.lO:OO- 2:00 .AF'ffB ·JIGUirS XP~fSS: ~ 140N-1JI01l'S IAA·aAH.. FJtl aJ.JI.. .. 4AI4 SA'f aAII..·3AM SUN UPM,..aA#i\ 4 • • -- • ·- ~ ~- ---- -- - - - - •• \' -. • -- - COME INTO MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! Schenectady- 1041 State Street- 382-5776 · ' . . . . . ONEHOUn ' - · · . . 'MOTOPHOTO ' . . r---------T---------y---------~---~-----~ :50% OFF: 38¢ : $4.99 :85.00 OFF: I PROCESSING • REPRnTS 1 8x1 0 1 CLUB : I Recc:'ve SO% oft'~ rep!..-: L\ • 20 a . : Li.,.i• 3 axJO CD.IIU\&CD~ea~a.J R.oeaYe S$.0b oft\... 1. 1 pnee of' p~ aad . . ~~ tllaD rd au!:c . Faom your 3Smm color ·, you purch•sc a c::Ju'b I 1 priJDJtj.Da color priat fila~.. I ,..., .......... F#OIM y~ur 3 !'5..,.. I · aeaativc. IIDeiD'bcnlhipf Mu.aepn:scat 1· I color eecativc. I _ · .. · I · · •s oo _. 1 ._... :J·..... * c ............... .-.,. I I < ....._.41: • .,,. .... -. ,. ... ._......,. .. - 1 .. coupoe ~ weeea'Ye ... . • o ••• 1 . ...._. -a:..a __...... ..._ . ......._... _. ....., __ • ...., ........ -- . -- . ...tdle-' c~ HGI,..... ..,........_. I 1 ......... -.-·~ c•e ,.,.,__ I .......... ---·~--:'\\ ccoo\a\• ........ en . 1 ......,. ... ,., ... -. ... .., 4 1 .,_ C'1Yioo .•. L..,;e..., .,_ ,..... ••. ,., 011 ..,.! 1411 ..,... ... t C.... 1 Q ll• a •- Clwlilt 11 I tftll iRu ••we 10\4 c•.,.a. IJIIII'IIC., 11 ••••u• n.c- IO'k. c••- prior ..,... 1 n 1 - .... .,....,. I . I ,...,..,.,,, • ...,-.. I I . I ·· · · · • Aaf!!JJ,.,Io'I'CJf • K:II:::ITO,.Ho» or • AhTOJII'Ho» or •. itli0;!!5''!.4V ;9'_ J · ·--------~---~~---~-----~~~~-~--- ~~ t 1 t ( L t l

~M,UN • IAHAMAi l4HOURSOF FREE DRINKS! 7 ni&hts from $299! Includes RT air, hotel, 24 hours of' tree drink5 and ~kiy party schecbie of spring break events! Organi.ze 1 5 freinds ar.d EARN A FREE TRIP! Advertisements REDEEM THIS COUPON AT DUTCH HOLLOW FOR THE OMELETTE OF YOUR CHOICE PREPARED FOR YOU BY ONE OF EXPERT OMELETTE MAKERS. REDEEMABLE DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY. MON.- FRI. 7:30-10:30 SAT.- SUN. 10:00- 2:00 ~Jr~ lt\ON·1Jillftt5 lOAM • 1/1~ Fltl IO.A~ ~ a.AM SAl UAM • a.Mit .. SUN ii!PM • IIPM AF11R'~~ MON·l~OJ!'S IA~·aAM. 1\...,.r.,JI f~l aA.~·-4AM SAl W.AI4-lAI4. WN aP#4-taM~ 1.) LA~<iESI PEL.IVEJtY 1;\Et-JU tN 1HE C::API1 AL ~Eic.iiON! 2.) <'ONVSNI~t·ff ~ELIASLE ~OO~S. W.,riW fZVS~YOW6 SLS~ IS S!.EEPIW<i W~'~E OPE~ AS L.A1E AS 4AM.! 3.) L.OWES1' MINIMUM Of('t>~~ FO~ f>SL.JVG~Y! WG. ~~QUI~£; ONLY A S5 MI....ZIHUJM FO~ F~Ef f>S.LJVE~Y! 4.) LO<ATJON! HCJWLE.~'S IS CENI~ALLY LOCA1el>. ONLY 1 BLOCK F~O~ UNION C.::t?LLE~E A 1 1UE CO~N~~ OF FOS1'E~ !:: .rA111~ S1f?EE1S. I 136 Days U ntl .l Grad u at•·on '· 1 .. '· I s.) exP~Ess \e:L1ve~vt stlt\PLE orepe:~s <A~ ATC''-\IVE g _ WJ'TJ.IIN J.S-2'5 MINtJ1ES. COMPLEX O~t>S~S M.AY T At::E A Lf11LE LONG~~ - WC'Lt.. LE1 YOO KNOW I-lOW LONG. 6.) P'RIC:E.S!!! t>CJl.LA~ FO~ POLLAF WE GJV~ YOO MO~E. VALUE FOJ.? 1HE BO<:K! PLEASE COMPA~E! 7.) QUALJ1Y 1 At<!S EXPE~JENCE: fte'OM OUF SY~ AC::OSE WI~Ci ,-ECIP£$ 10 00~ VJC1 OJe'VILLE, <::A PIZZA~ WE A 'T tlOWLE~S llAVE OVE~ 30 Yf..Af!S COMBINE!> EXPE~I~NCE! .m.ANP IIER£S 3 /ft0~/5 JC'£ASCNS./ r-·--------~-----------r----------~ , :Buy 1 Pizza: FREE : FREE : •: any· size, : WINGS! : FINGERS! : : : get one : Buy 12 Get 6 Free : Chi !!uy ; 1 4 : I If . r I or I Cnen r, ngers, I ; 1 ha -priCe. 1 BLiy ?4 Get 12 Free 1 Get 6 FREE!! I . I 7 oppmgs extra I ANy VARIETY I Oll•r .. 3o rw!}Brs'\t I ; : r.·qu.al or {0$$$111 1/,;tltn : And ll ... re,; f'lomty of V..aw•tv : : a I I I ; '--- -,l'r.',I!I'M,.'ff,rr\ m~ ~.lr.\~cff\lrr~M?I\f·~~~.m'·~\\'ff~Mff\ --.I COME INTO MOTO PHOTO FOR SUPER SAVINGS! Schenectady- 1041 State Street- 382-5776 . :· .. · .. ,, .. ' '·, ' . . ·.. . . . ., ' ···.·.·. '· ··.' . ' :. ONE HOUQ ' .. · .. · ··. '' ·· · .· , . . . . . ·· · ... :; .·. ·. ·_. · . · .. : · .· . · ... M0.7JGII\'H0.7f\O · ·. . ·. • • ' • • • ' •• •• ' • • - t ' • ' ( • • -. - • :I t

Winless Streak at Ea·se Skating Dutch111en roll ove,r Ar1n~ 6-2 by Jonathan Cast batter Editor-in-Ch iej The Union College Skating Dutchmen traveled to snowy West Point to battle the Black Knights of Army Friday night in what would be their final non-league game ofthe season. After coming off of a 7-2 drubbing at the hands of\Route 7 Rival\ the RPI Engi~ neers the previ,ous weekend, Union needed toredeem itself. The Dutchmen, who were winless in their previous eight games came out of the box with junior goaltender LeeorShtrom between the pipes. Shtrom, who relieved senior goaltender Trevor Koenig in the Second period of last weekend's game, was still search- ing for his first win of the season. The Black Knights struck first as Jason Choi nettep his first of two goals on night with just over thir- teen minutes left in the period, sec- onds aftera Dutcl)men penalty had expired. However, freshman David Smith tied the sc()re with his third goal of the season as he poked a Jason Ralph rebound into the net tying the score for the Dutchmen. However, at 19:13 Annywentahead 2-1 and Union was forced to head into the dressing room at the end ofthe first period down a goal. After trailing by the score of2-1 at the end of the first period, it was F'rank Rossi I TC The Skating D~ttchmen celebrate tlieir first l'ictory of 19'9~ lljter downi11g tlte Black Knigllt!ii, 6-3. senior tri-captain Charlie Moxham sparking a three goal second pe- riod for the Dutchmen. Moxham scored both the tying and winning goals in a span of 2:05 midway through the stanza. At 1 I :34, Moxham took a bouncing puck from junior forward Brent Ozarowksi and skated in alone on Army goaltender Daryl Chamber- lain, putting the .puck behind him. Then at 13 :39 with an Army player in the penalty box for interference, it was Moxham redirecting a Mark Will pass into the Army net for his seventh goal of the season giving Union a 3-21ead. Moxham felt that the quickness of !Jis goals changed the momentum of the game. \They were big, espec.ially back to back. It kind of slowed them down and got us back into it. The first one tied it up, and the second one happened so quick season. Moxham was not the only start of the period for the Dutchmen. Shtrom came up with a big save, one of his twenty-she. of the night, to thwart an Army power play chance. With Will in the penalty box for tripping, it was Army's Greg conti.nued on page 22 Dutchmen Split Big Weekend by FrankS. Rossi Editor-in-Ciziej It was a streak much like that of the AFC's Super Bowl losing . . streak, but the Union College Shooting Dutchmen broke their streak: one day earlier. In as urptise, the Dutchmen defeated the Hamilton Continentals for the first time on Hamilton's floC'r since 1981 to gain revenge on the Continen- tals, 82-74. The win balan<:ed the 105-69 loss the Dutchmen experi- enced just one week eartier. On Friday night, the Dutchmen started their weekend against the Hobart Statesmen. Ridif1g a ten- game losing streak into the game, Hobart was deterrn ined to not give in to the upstart Dutchmen. Union carried a 36·26 halftime lead into the locker room, but a 30-percent shooting performance by the Dutchmen against Hobart's 51.7 percent gave Hobart the edge. The Dutchmen had three players in double figures (senior captain Rob TeCarr with 22, sophomere Zena Woldeyesus with 14, and junior Rob Groelz with 12). They had trouble stopping Hobart's Eric Nelson and Rob Pisanelli, who each scored at least 20 points in Hobart's 62~59 win. The following night, the Dutch- men exacted their revenge in much the same way Hobart beatthem on Friday. The Dutchmen trailed the Continentals 44-3 7 at halftime, but the teams hit rarely seen shooting extremes in the second half. Sophomore Rich. Gilooly scored three straight baskets to give the Dutchmen a 63-57 lead halfway through the second half. Hamilton battled back to a one-point deficit, . but Groelz, who wore a bandage around his right hand throughout the week due to injury, made key. foul shots at the end of the game to keep the Dutchmen in the lead. Gilooly stated, \That is a win that could define a season. There are no words to describe how it felt to go into there and get revenge.\ The win moved the Dutchmen to 3-2 in the UCAA and 8-6 ever- all. Both teams had four players in double figures, with freshman John . Van Wormer missing his first double double by one rebound. Van Wormer, wllo has caught fire of late, attributes his success to his teammates. \A lot of credit goes to the other players. I did not get off to a good start, but the coaches brought me into the system well and helped me adjust.\ Union HeadC()ach Robett Mon- tana was happy with his team's weekend performance. \l would rank this weekend a seven or eight [on a scale of one to ten]. Coming home with the split was not bad, especially considering we began 0~ 3 and 2-4 this season.\ He attrib- uted his team's revenge against Hamilton to their patience. \The kids kept hanging in there. They took one possession at a time.\ On Tuesday night, the Dutch- men faced Hartwick at Memorial · Fieldhouse in front of a decent DavelV1cguerdichian/TC crowd. Their fans were not disap- ----:--:1i~'h_is~tl~·m_e~ar_o-=-u_lll_ci-:tJ,:-':-e_D_u_tc_l_lm=e_n:-:-sw_a_tt_e_d:-R_.-:a:-m_il_to-:-· '-'·--:-~­ pointed as the Dutchmen beat Hartwick comeback 111idway (Friday at 8pm) and nationally- Hartwick 88-67. through the second h aH. The ranked St. Lawrence (Saturday at Woldeyesus started strong in team's 9-6 record already has sur- 4pm) at the Mernoriial Fieldhouse. the second half with three quick passed last year's seV'en-win Last season, the Du1tchmen played three-point shots, giving him 21 record, and itties the tea.m 's 1995- a ranked Saintteam .to a five-point points, and Groelz rnade nine bas- 1996 nine-win effort. loss for the DutchDaen. Gilooly kets for 26 points. The Dutchmen This weekend, the Dutchmen believes this year will be different. shot over 50 percent during both have their toughest leagt~e chal- \This year, we hawe confiden-ce, halves, helping to prevent a lenge yet as they face Clarkson and that's a big pitts.\

Win1ess Streak at Ease Skating Dutch:rnen roll over Ar~ny:~ 6-2 by Jonathan Gasthalter Editor-in-Chief The Union College Skating Dutchinei~ traveled to snowy West Point to battle the Black Knights of Ar111y Friday night in what would be their final non-league game of the season. After coming off of!l 7-2 drubbing at the hands of \Route 7 Rival\ the RPI Engi- neers the previous weekend, Union needed to redeem itself. The D11tchll1en, who were winless in their previous eight games came out of the box with junior goaltender Leeor Shtrom between the pipes. Shtrom, who relieved senior goaltender Trevor Koenig in the second period of last weekend's game, was still search- ing for his first win of the season. The Black Knights struck first as Jason Clloi netted his first oftwo goals 011 night with just over thir- teen mi 11utes left in the period, sec- onds after a Dutchmen penalty had expired. However, freshman David Smith tied the score with his third goal of the season as he poked a Jason Ralph rebound into the net tying the score for the Dutchmen. However. at 19:13 Army went ahead 2-1 and Union was forced to head into the dressing room at the end of the first period down a goal. AftertraiHng by the score of2-1 at the end of the first period, it was Frank Rossi I TC The Skating Dutchmen cdl!brate their first victory of 1998 after downing the Black Knights, 6-3. seRior tri-captain Charlie Moxham in the penalty box for interference, that it changed the momentum of sparking a three goal second pe- it was Moxham redirecting a Mark the game,\ said Moxham who had riod for the Dutchmefl. Moxham Will pass into the Army net for his his second two-goal game of the scored both the tying and winning seventh goal of the season giving season. goals in a span of 2:05 midway Uniona3-2lead. Moxham felt that Moxham was not the only start through the stanza. At 11:34, the quickness of his goals of the period for the Dutchmen. Moxham took a bouncing puck changed the momentum of the Shtrom came up with a big save, from junior forward Brent game. \They were big, especially one ofhis twenty-six ofthe night, Ozarowksi and skated in alone on back to back. It kind of slowed to thwart an Army power play Army goaltender Daryl Chamber- them down and got us back into it. chance. With Will in the penalty lain, putting the puck behind him. The first one tied it up, and the box for tripping, it was Army's Greg Thenat 13:39withanArmyplayer second one happened so quick continuedonpage22 Dutchmen Split Big Weekend by FrankS. Rossi Editor-in-Chief It was a streak much like that of the AFC'~ Super Bowl losing streak, but the Union College Shooting, Dutchmen broke their streak oJJe day earlier. In a surprise, the Dutchmen defeated the Hamilto11 Continentals for the first time on Hamilton's flo0r since 1981 to gain revenge on the Continen- tals, 82-7 4. The win balanced the I 05-69 loss the Dutchmen experi- enced just one week earlier. On Friday night, the Dutchmen started tlleir weekend against the Hobart Statesmen. Riding a ten- game losing streak into the game, Hobart \Was determined to not give in to the upstart Dutchmen. Union carried a 36-26 halftime lead into the locker room, but a 30-percent shooting performance by the Dutch1nen against Hobart's 51.7 percent gave Hobart the edge. The Dutchrr1en had three players in double figures (senior captain Rob TeCarr with 22, sophomore Zena Woldeyesus with 14, and junior Rob Groelz with 12). They had trouble stopping Hobart's Eric Nelson and Rob Pisanelli, who each scored at least 20 points in Hobart's62-59 win. The f<J! lowing night, the Dutch- men exacted their revenge in much the same way Hobart beat them on Friday. fhe Dutchmen trailed the Continentals 44-3 7 at halftime, but the temns hit rarely seen shooting extremes in the second half. Sopho1nore Rich Gilooly scored three straight baskets to give the Dutchmen a 63-57 lead halfway througl1 the second half. Hamilton battled back to a one-point deficit, . but Groelz, who wore a bandage around his right hand throughout the week due to injury, made key foul shots at the end of the gam~ to keep the Dutchmen in the lead. Gilooly stated, \That is a win that could define a season. There ar~ no words to describe how it felt t<J go into there and get revenge.\ The win moved the Dutchmen to 3-2 in the UCAA and 8-6 over- all. Both teams had four players in double figures, with freshman John Van Wormer missing his first double double by one rebound. Van Wormer, who has caught fire oflate, attributes his success to his teammates. \A lot of credit goes to the other players. I did not get off to a good start, but the coaches brought me into the system weH and helped me adjust.\ Union Head Coach Robert Moll- tana was happy with his team's weekend performance. \I would rank this weekend a seven or eignt [on a scale of one to ten]. Coming home with the split was not bad, especially considering we began()- 3 and 2-4 this season.\ He attrib- uted his team's revenge against Hamilton to their patience. 'The kids kept hanging in there. They took one possession at a tirne.\ On Tuesday night, the Dutch- men faced Hartwick at Memorial Fieldhouse in front of a decent DaveMeguerdichian/T<' crowd. Their fans were not d isap- ----:--T,:-11_is_t_im_e:-a_ro-:u:-n_d_t-:h-:e_D_u_t_c_hm_e-:\-:-s_w_a_tt_e_d_H_a_m_l_·tt-:o_n_. --:--- pointed as the Dutchmen beat Hartwick comeback midway (Friday at 8pm) and nationally- Hmtwick 88-67. through the second half. The ranked St. Lawrence (Saturday at Woldeyesus started strong in team's 9-6 record already has sur- 4pm) at the Memorial Fieldhouse. the second half with three quick passed last year's seven-win Lastseason,theDutchmenplayed three-point shots, giving him 21 record, and it ties the team's 1995- a ranked Saint team to a five-point points, and Groelz made nine bas- 1996 nine-win effort. loss for the Dutchmen. Giloo ly kets for 26 points. The Dutchmen This weekend, the Dutchmen believes this year will be different. shot over 50 percent during both have their toughest league chal- \This year, we have confidl'nce, halves, helping to prevent a lenge yet as they face Clarkson and that's a big plus.\ Dutchmen Inside Basketball Swimming Women's Hockey Features Columns Settling the Score Spotlight All New Line-Up Page17.

. by:J~s()n Ev~rett · lnternati()llal Sports Wri~er of Mystery · Yes, fellow Union 'College stUdents, ''The Danger Zone\ is back for anotherweek dm:: to the lack of hate-mail received ~ince thiS' desserts you can consume without throwing up St. John's Starting to Turn it Around . celumn debuted last week. Once again this 11. Trying. to ice skate on the rneticulQusly shoveled paths of Union's campus When St. John's Coach Fran Frasch ilia came to the school at the beginning of last ·is a top thirteen list~ not ten; so live with it. season, his goal was to turn the Red Storm back ·int() the team Big East opposition had · A few random reflections en professional once feared. He inherited a team which possessed immense talent and included two high · sports before this second attempt at hu- · school All-Americans, Felipe Lopez and Zendon Hami;lton. However, the results were not · mor ... to~ Asphyxiating in the hallway ofP~i .. U by the front door and stairs while trying to se¢ how many people you can 1 'really'; fit in tbere before being unable to move j breathe I or being able to tell if the person youire pressed up against is wearing boxers or briefs. there and St. John's was Onfil of the most inconsistentteams in the country. Early in the .Ifthe NBA losses its arbitration hearing season S~. John's posted an impressive victory against Illinois, only to lose to Niagra a ' against Latrell Spreewell in the next two couple of games later. Niagra? Their low point came when top recruit James Fehon was ·' weeks, I will open an oven, stick my head released from the team in December, after allegedly stealing fi·om team members, and ·, into it, and light a match, Itwillhe afi a:bso- testing positive for drug use. Nobody feared St.John's and Frasch ilia's goal seemed more • lute disgrace ifthis happens, but be should 'like a dream. Then, January I Oth St. John's went to Georgetown, played a gritty, physical · eventmtUybe allowed back into tile NBA .... game, and came away with a 66-60 victory. They haven't lost since. The Red Storm have It's ironic that the first All-Star game in gotten contribution.s from all ends, inclLJding two time Big East freshmen ofthe week, Ron NYC at Madison Square Gard.eri ill. overJO Art est ( ll.2ppg. 5. 7rpg), and sophomore Lavor Postell (9. 7ppg, 5 .8rpg). However, the y,ears will not have a NY Knick and Patrick main reason for their turnaround has been senior Felipe Lopez. Lopez is finally living up Ewing, the perennial AU-Star, <;annat play to the potential which put him on the cover ofSI as a freshman. Leading the tean:! in dueto injury. This was s1:1pposedto be \his 1 ' scoring with 18.1 ppg, Lopez, for the first time in his career, has been a reliable go to guy. In All-Star game but an injury Ia~t month upsetting number 8 Uconn, Lopez led St. John's to an early fourteen point lead and hit key · dashed ~ll hopes ofthat ..• 9. Migraine,headaches resulting from running up the College Center stair<; while trying to race .the \fast moving\ elevator ftotn the first to. fourth floors 5. Running on tile indoor track in the Field House baskets down the stretch to seal the victory. His teammates have rallied around him and I know there are infinitely m<>re serious their confidence has grown. What has resulted is six consecutive St. John's victories over . things to pray about, but I pray every day Big East competition, propelling them to second in the Big East and a 15-6 overall record. that the Yankees and Bernie Williams can The loss to Niagra still lingers, reminding them how bad they can be, but if their current ' reach a long-term deaL Williams is one of play continues, Lopez and Hamilton will be playing 1in.their first NCAA tournament come the good-guys in sports and sliould'b~ re~ 7. Playing \chkken'' with the fallitig1ce· · and snow from the roofoftlle College· Center · · · .·.· · ' ··' ' · ' · .··· · · · '6~GettingJiit in'thehea~:iwith a re~lgclf ball by someon~ whdinisunderst6od what March and teams will once again fear St. John's. • warded, although he should give· a little on ·oh, What a Week . his demands. · . . ''campus golf' was aH about_'' . , If anyone is wondering whether it is possible to lose by 62 points to Kansas St., just ask Missouri. It's not often a team fwm one of college basketball's major conferences loses by 62 points. What is more mind boggling is how that same team, less than three weeks later, could beat two top ten teams. This week, the Norm Stewart led Tigers, hosted two of the countries premier teams, Kansa~ and Iowa. Most people wouldn't have given the Tigers a chance at beating either of these schools and if you had asked Stewart, he probably would have said his goals were to play both teams tough and gain some respect after the K' State debacle. What Stewart got was two one point victories and a whole lot of respect. On Monday Missouri hosted Kansas and for the third straight year beat a stacked jayhawk team. Michigan transfer Albert White's career high 23 points led an even attack and guard Jeft'Hafer's free throws with 11.4 seconds remaining gave Missouri the victory. Saturday, Iowa came to town trying to bounce back from a loss to.Michigan St. earlier in the week. They did not bounce back. Missouri again rei ied on clutch free throw shooting to pull out the upset. Tate Decker made one of two free throws to send the game to overtime and senior Kelly Thames hit two free thr()ws with 5.6 seconds remaining in Quote ofthe week, \It's as ifl'm another· O.J. Simpson ... Yes, I was wrong, but I didn't . kill anybody.l;m nota double murderer.'; ~ Latrell SpreeweU in last Friday's New York ·Post s. Passing out ~fter trying to see how you could stand over the steam outtake in fhmf of the College Center while trying to hold your breath Top Thirteen Most Dangerous ~'Sport\\\ · · · 4. Pulling a hamstring liigh,.stepping a Related Ways To\Get Injured at Union n~;~ked Nott run 13. Getting hurt trying to make it through the bookstore as fast .as you possibly can . withot.~t getting the contents of_your wallet · sucked out 3. Hangover from softball marathon,. 2. Insert alcohol related game here 1. Playing \King of the Mountain\ 011 tpe overtime to finish off the Haw keyes. Missouri has 11 victories, five of which came against m~~~~~n~.~ctherM~wuriju~~~upfurth~e~m~~~im~mdBri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Olin construction site · · 12. Trying to se¢ how many dining lial:I Grawer says, nobody knows, but Missouri best start getting up for all their games. Mis- souri is not out of the woods yet, they host Kansas St. in their season finale. News and Notes On a lighter note: This week it was brought to my attention that Union College sopho- more Adam Graham has declared himself eligible for the NBA draft in June. The 6'3\ Graham, will be foregoing his years of eligibility here at Union, but feels he will have a better chance of honing his skills playing and practicing against NBA players, than he would here at Union. Graham last played basketball in middle school where he averaged 5ppg, 2rpg, and 7 steals, but he fouled out of every game. He possesses raw talent, but feels he has what it takes to compete ~n the NBA. Graham will have to get over his tendency to foul and yell at fans if he hopes to succeed at the next level. Player of the Week Larry Hughes G St. Louis St. Louis fresllman Larry Hughes had a tremendous week. [n Saturday's defeat of Marquette, Hughes scored 40 ofhis teams 71 points. Earlier in the week Hughes scored 32 points in a loss to Louisville. Match-Up of the Week January 29th Arizona at Stanford These two top.ten teams battle for West Coast bragging rights an.d more importantly the top spot in the Pac-1 0. It should be a physical fast paced battle worth watchi~g. Top Ten Dropping out of the polls this week was Princeton. I had a tough team putting a team that had a I 6 day layoff and plays a division Ill school this week in my top ten. Both. Uconn and Kansas· dropped slightly after disappointing loses to unrankecl teams. Please send your top ten to box number 902 by Sunday to l:le included in the fan polL Yaffee's Poll I. Duke 2. North Carolina 3. Arizona 4. Utah 5. Stanford 6. Kentucky 7. Kansas 8. UCLA 9. New Mexico 10. Uoonn Fan Poll 1. Duke 2. North Carolina 3. Utah 4. Arizona 5. Stanford 6. Kans~s 7. Kentucky 8. UCLA 9. OleMiss HtPurdue Union Alpine Ski Team . . at West Mountain by Reuel Daniels Contributing Writer At 6:30AM sharp on Saturday morning Union College's Ski Club was ready to drive 45 minutes to West Mountain where their first race of the year was to be held. This year's team has a new component, a women's racing team. The ski club has stayed pretty low key the past few years, but this year they hope t() gain the respect that every Union team deserves. Not many people out there know that Union even has a team, let alone a club, but those who do make use of the free skiing and race · training on Tuesdays and Thursdays. If you are interested in just skiing one evening or simply gef!ing away for a weekend the ski team offers you the opportunity to get away and ski (or even board. Not only does the club consist of a recreational component, but a racing team as well. The racing team competes in the Adirondack division and races against such schools as Colgate, Hamiliton, and Clarkso11. For those who did not think this team even existed be prepared for much more to come because both the women's and men's teams are going to excel beyond expectations Last year Union's Ski Club did not have enough women to put together a racing team, butthis year five talented young women have made Union Ski Club history. In their first race ofthe season at West Mountain hosted by Albany State, the Union women earned second place for the slalom competition on Saturday and for the giant slalom on Su11day. The Union women's team is composed offive freshmen: Katherine Donne11y, Katy Reis, Kathleen Lamey, Linda Pazral, and Reuel Daniels. (This weekend's victory was helped by Katherine Donnelly and Katy Reis who pLaced within the top {ive in every race. The other women on the team aU placed in the top 15. It was a great showing for this first year team. lfthere are any women ski racers out there, come jQin the ski team! On the other side, the men; s team finished fourth on Saturday and fifth. on Sunday. The men's team is also relatively new .and the only retumees.are sophomores Mike Fuller and Jim Bryant. Mike FulJer was a key racer last year and ended up 2nd in the league. Due to a crash and a missed gate, Fuller was ,not able place in his usual t()p three. The six freshmen who make up the rest ofthe team consist ofCorey Allen, Jason Shames, J<ISh Talbert~ Seth Wolfman, Andrew Beebe. and Dave.Kasbman. The men'steatn looks to. do very well this season. Next week .the team will be at :aelleayre Mountain where they will be competing in a race ;hosted .by. Army. We wish the ski team a sreat season with many vietoriesand hope that they will be recopized for their accomplislmients. I t ( ( f \ t t ~ iJ a e: D v: g Y• 01 e1 ht T· A he th til w p, de R eq te; ac da sit frc si1

Swimming Has Setback by AnnetteGrajJJny Contributi11g Writer After two back to h<tck victories, th(! Union College V:,-.rsity swim teams faced a totJg!l road defeat last weekendagainst rvtiddlebury. The rnen 'steam YVas hurt b~the a!>se11ce of three t~p .swimmers, senior Mike Darbys~.ire, junior M ilce Hoerle, and freShltlan Noah Trueger. Theteamputforth a good eff()rt despite their vr eaknesses, bUit came up short in tl1e end. Matt Mauriello took first place in tne200 fly, with atir11e ()f2:03.76. He .also finished second in both the5~0 free, with a time of5:1 0.77, an.d the 1650 free, '\-V ith a time of 17:23.71. A !so winning forUnion was jun- ior Uav id Searles, \\Ill o finished first in the 100 fly, ~itha time of 53 A-2. Searles also flad a second place finish in the 200 individual medley, as well as th~ HJOback, with times of 159.34 and 56.jl, respec- tively. l\1 ark Anderson sv,tam fast as well~ finish.ing first in the 1 ()0 breast, with a time of I :00 :~?co and second in 1l1e 200 breast, vvith. a time of 2:13.16. The men's relay t~allls weren't quite fast enough t() bi:ing in first place, but had good results none- theless. The 200 me(lley relay, sw;am by Matthew Gl()gowski, Clarlt Smyth, An<lerson, and Sei}rtes, finished sec()nd\.Vith a time of l :40.44. BiiJ Fli<:k, Peter Hu:m phreys, Anders()n~ ilnd Smyth, wh() made up the 2 00 free relay team, also finished sec()nd, with a tim<e()f! :29.73. Se11ior Brian FieldiJerfonned su- per:bfy, achievingperso11al records in b()th the 1 and 3 111 eter events, accurnulatihg 2385 a11d 265.57 Corey Silken I TC U11ion Swinznllng, with seaso1111earing c/ose,jaces.(l[oss versus Middlebury. points, respe.ctively. The UniGn. women's team had an extremely dose race, but couldn't manage to p'llH ahead in the end, despite ma11y outstanding perfor- mances. Senior Megan McCarthy set t\:vo new pe1\so11a l records in both the 200 fly and 1lle 200 breast, winning the races in2: 15.08 and 2:28.02, re~ spectively. McCarthy also won the .IOOftee witli a time of55.81. · In the freestyle events, freshman Clewis Kinnet dominated. She woH the200 free with a timeof2:00.06, and the 50() free with a time of 5:17.90. Kinnet also won the 200 IM in 2: 17.16., followed by sophomore Erin Wittes, wllo took second with a timeof2:19.15. Wittes won the 100 fly, fin i$<hing with a time of 1:04.76. Freshman Sarah Rankowitz had an outstanding meet, winning first place in the 1 ()Oback with a time of I :02.93, while taking second place in the 200 back, with a time of 2:15.83. Union got a slight break in the ' 200 free relay, when the first place Middlebury team was disqualified. Rachel Miller, Kerry Librandi, Rankowitz:, and McCarthy took. first place in 1 :45 .3 3. Sophomore Heather Weisenfluh stood out in the diving events, set- ting new persottal records while winning both events. In the 1 meter competition, she accumulated 225.525 total points, compared to 24 3.3 in the 3 meter event. In the end, the Union women fell short by only six total points, the final score being 147 (Union)to 153 (Middlebwy). by David Weiner Staff Writer Not much changed this week in therecord ofthewomen'sbasket- ba,ll ttam this week; they posted one 'Win and one loss. However, the team showed much improve- .. ment in their knowledge, patience, and overall play as they faced two •· extrentely tough opponents in Wil- liam Smith and Hamilton. Forthe.firsttime since retuming to sch()ol from winter vacation, the · worn en:s basketball team's sched- . ule took them on the road for both • their Friday and Saturday games .. Boarding the b~:~s Friday after- noon, the team traveled west in hopes of displaying what they leamedduring their solid we~;::k of practice and earn two victories. ! While they were unable to knoc~ off a. William Smith team that · reaclled the NCAA Division Ill Final Four last year, Union was able to beat a solid. Hamilton team as the Du tchwomen put forth what was p()ssibly their best effort of the sea:son. With a five day layoffb~tween gam~s. Union was afforded the opportunity to regain their health, get back to the basics they have practiced from the outset of the season, and implement new offen- sive schemes that eventually baffled their opponents. This time, along w·ith sheer detennination and solid JJI ay from a variety of play- ers all ovved forth is weekend's suc- cess. William Smith 76- Union 40 William Smith .is the perennial powerh<mse of the women's bas- ketbatlleaguc. In the three years that tile women's league has been in existellce, William Smith has lost only one league game, that loss coming this year at the hands of Skidmore. They continually anni- hilate their opponents, and com- ing into this game, knowing that the Union team consisted of nine first year players, expected this game to be no different than any other in the past. Union, however, did not plan to go out that easily. Their week of practice allowed them to build a confidence that they hoped would carry them through this game. Throughout the firsthalf, the Union women stuck with their opponent, slowing their offense down for the first time this year in attempts at taking William and Smith out of their usual up-tempo rhythm, and playing .stingy, aggressive de- fense. Union took numerous good shots, but unfortunately missed too many of those shots to take a halftime lead. However, the team realized their defensive success and hard work. showed as they held William Smith to a mere thirty- one points if! the first half. The second half, needless to say, did not go as well as the first. William Smith's depth, experience, aHd knowledge seemingly over- took Union as William Smith was able to continually put fresh play- ers into the game, thus allowing them to find the rhythm that had escaped them in the first half. These fresh players, coupled with the fatigue that set in among Union players allowed William Smith to outscore the opponents · 45-17 in the second half and uLti- mately win the game easily. Aside from the difficult second half, there were numerous bright spots for this young Union team. Erin McNamara was six for ten from the floor with fi-fteen points and continued on page 23 Skating Dutchwomen Run into Tough Competition by Jason Ev~rttt· Contrib_uting Writer \'!tough and tough.\' Well, you can surely say this is 1lie general fee ling of the entire Skating Dut chwomen team about their past weekend of play. An<lle:1s be hon- est, tllere were two ga.mesin which Unil()nwould lovetodefl11itely for- get al:lout and regrCltlp as a solid hockey squad. On<:e again the Unl()n Skating Dut<:hnvomen encountere<l difficult varsity level teams tl1is week, with great skills, speed a11d several years ofexperience •. After £oming off an upsetting loss to \Troy Acad- emy ()11 Wednesday,. U11ion first hosited Rochester l!lstitute of Tecimology (RIT) on Friday at Achilles Rink. In thep~tst, RIT has hau11t ed Union, usually beating them IJy more then te-11 gCJals. For the rest of the week:e11d, Union woultl faceoff against'Rensselear Polytechnic Institute(RF[)on Sun- day and then return (()' A.chilles Rink ()11 Monday to fitce a more equally matched Skidmore College team .. It was amazing hoVI JUT tigers actui!l1y made it to cat\llplls for Fri- day 11igl1t' s game. Tiro ugh snow, sleet,and a lot of oth~rj11nk: falling front the sky, it was a ceJtainly a sign for RIT to show how intense ~- -- }~ Corey Silken I TC E~enwith losses against Jl/T and RPI, the Dutchwome11 skated past Skid111ore on Mo11day. they were to play and win. There was a small crowd of about 18 people, inc1llding devoted fan Dean A1fqnd and junior Adam Deutsch, who announced the game from the press box, keeping both the skater~ alld fans laughing and interested in tile game. RlT has had a strong women's hockey program since the early 1980 1 s and lrke in the past against Union, RIT carne out with confi- dence and control of the game. From the time ofthe opening face- off, RIT had control of the puck in Union's zone for about the first three minutes. Again, proble~s that hurt Union were trouble clear- ing the puck out .of their zone and contrt>llin'g tile puck within the. neutral zone. RIT struck hard and early. They scored three goals in the first period. Besides the goals, junior g()alie Lauren Locke made key saves, keeping the game un- der co11trol in the first period. But playing against a team who is basically a step above them, . Union ~ould never turn it around. In the second and third periods, ~T d()llJ.illated, scoring, passing, and skllting beautifully. The game would e11d, with RIT shutting out Union 12-0. \There is nothing to be ashamed about We are just not yet at the playing level of a team like RIT,\juniorcoach Tim Benson said. On Sunday, Union visited our rivals at RPI in Troy. Even though Union was defeated, by another top-rated women'steam 7-2, Union played a much better game then their previous game against RIT. Goalie Lauren Locke made great saves, while the offense picked up some intensity, and putting the goal in the net twice. Union out- skated RPI in the third period, put- ting more shots on goal and play- ing some crisp hockey. Scoring for Union were sophomores Whitney Davis and Kirsten Owad. 'The RPI game was our best game of the year, despite the 7-2 lost. RPI played great too, with some unbelievable talent on their team,\ Benson said. Something must had happened from Sunday night to Monday af- ternoon, because the Skating Dutchwomen looked and played absolutely awesome when Skidmore hit the ice. Many people came out to support the team against Skidmore, including many SOT sisters, especially senior Shana Meyer, who was the life of the crowd. Union .and Skidmore are teams more on the same type of playing levels, and this was . continued on\page 23 .......

' . • MATH • ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING • M ·~-· When something is too extreme :for words, it's to tl\te Nth degre~. And that's the level of tedmo!ogy you'll ex:perienc:e ot Raytheon. Raytheon bas formed o new t:echnolo.g:ico·t s.vperpower-- Roythe<m Syst.erns Company, cornp<>sed of four major technological giont.s: Royiheon Electronic Systems~ Roytheo.n E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Sy~~em.s ond Hughes Aircraft. The new R<lylht;on Syst.ems Company is driving technology to the limf.l. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Bteok new ground. Make their lha..-k. At Raytheon, you'll toke technology-and your corcer-to the highest possible leveL You'll t<Jke it lo the Nth. We'll be visiting you-r c:crnpus soon. Contact your career pl(lcement office how tQ schedule an int.;rview. or. <:he.ck out our website at www.royjo-bs.cum. If you arc unabl~ to meet with: us, please send your resume to; Ray1heon Staffing. P.O. Sox 655 474, MS.-2.01, Dd!Jos, TX 75265. We ~lave many exciting opportunities available and we would like to talk to you. ,, ' }~ ;_ .. • ~ i . { . i! tz : -~ \ ~ f . ! ;: :: ~ -; t : ,. . :· l. J \ INTERNATIONAL ]OB SKITJS Ne\v professional M.A. in Inter- national Affatrs or Inte:ramerlca:n • Stmies pr~pares you 111pidly for exciting careers: 0 envirorunenlal studies 0 public health LJ government 0 international organizations LJ ioternationai medial business Learn valuable analytic skills :· from economics and the social sciences. Complete this intensive multi- d.isclplinary degree in 12 to 1 S n10mhs, while living in a tasci.- n:ating imemational <ily. Free details. Credit card debt can be (:riticat! Keep your credit card debt limited to whaes essential~ educationally related ex-penses. CollegeCa.rd is a low interest loan in the form of a credit card to help~ou through school and protect your financial well-being. Examine the po:Sslbitities. CaU 8oo~532\7644 to apply by phone~ SCIIOOLOF~ INTERNATIONAL STUDIES · Cor:tl G:1blcs, 1:1. 33124·3010 305<!844173; r•ax: 305·284·4406 www.mlami.edu/sls SOUTHWE~D· STUDENT SERVICES CORPORATION® A rwnpmflr UJr·pe1ration pmmoting tlr t·~~s to eclucatiMl 1201 S. Ainu' Schooll~oacl. 1 Jtll Floor Mesa, Arizcllcl 8.1210-2014 Ill tp:llwww. s:>sc.alln COLLEGE.CARD ••• IT,S 1-.N YOUR BEST ·fNTEREs··r! ,_ --\~~~ < • ~~ ,.4Mj<f~ ... ~.~·~,'_,~,·~~ iJIJ:.~:·'r~ ~....tf)-, ,.,® 1 ~.,~>9.> ~ 1 ••1;ih; ,,.,;-.~<<.fn>j\\\;a lli-_r-J,•CN-Xz'~~~#J.I- \''?) ~••'4-\' 1.;.£}).,_'<_ ...,.,;;y i.

1 •i ; . ' I i i ! i- . ' 'at e <O:~nrwru•i!£i •January 2~, 1998 • Pa e 21 Women's Ice Ho,ckey Quiet Confidence: X-C's Amy Slabich Surges In Hopes Of ·Varsity Status for 1999-2000 Season by Hannah Blurn Sports lnformatioll lfltern by Jason Everett Sports Writer Despite being admittedly ner- vous upon arriving at Union for cross-country preseason to start her freshman year, by the time fall tenn ended, Amy Slabich devel':.. oped a quiet col'lfidence and a name for herself in the running · community. Slabich should have known better about being nervous. · She had felt rightatUnion from the time that she stayed over the year before and was eager to start cross-country and her freshman year upon arrival. With its men's ice hockey pro- . Slabich commentedthatrunning gram celebrating its 2Jrd :year of , cross-country allowed for a existence and seventh season as a smcoth transition to college from non-scholarship Division I sport, . high school. She particularly paid Union College is looking forward , . notice to how her teammates made to elevating its four-year old it a particularly easy adjustment. women's team from clubto varsity ; She said that, \cross-country status starting with the I ~99'-2000 · made it for me ... [it was J so nice to season. The Skating Dutchwomen, have a team and meet peop.le from who are currently playing a 21- different classes. It really made me game independent schedule, will comfortable,\ become the 14th member of the In high school in Paxton, Mas- Eastern College Athletic saclhusetts, Slabich competed in Conference'sAiliance Lellgue next athletics for four years in every season. season. She did outdoor track for In two years women's hockey all f<>ur years, indoor track for three, will become U n ion's 2 5 1 h soccer for three, and basketball for itltercollegiate vars.ity sp()rt and one. Despite competing in differ- the L3th varsity sport for women. ent sports, running had always It will join basketball, crew, cross come naturally to Slabich. She had country, field hockey, lacrosse, competed in track as early as the soccer, softball, swimming,.tennis, sixth grade and thoroughly en- track (indoor & Olltdoov), and joyed it. vo I ley ball. I ntercoHegiate A !though she had been running opp()rtunities for men are offered for over seven years, once at ·in baseball, basketball;.cte-w., cross Uni()n, Slabich wondered to her- country, football, hockey ,lacrosse, · self~t the first practice, \how will I soccer, swimming, tennis, track fit in [on this team]\ and \will I be (indoor & outdoor). All ofU11ion's able to keep up?\ These questions athletic teams, with tile ex:ception were answered soon enough. of men's hockey, comptlt-e at the SJaJ>.ich quickly became very com- NCAA Division HI leveL fortctble with her teammates whom \We are elevating women's hockey to varsity status because of the interest shown by our fe- male students,\ said Dick Sakala, Union's Director of Athletics for the past 23 years. \As is the case with any club sport that we've el- evated to varsity status, W<lmen 's hockey has to complete a four-to- five year cycle that sllows contin- ued interest and growth.\ Last year Union elevated its men and women's crew after many years of student interest attlle club level and in 1984, women's sQccer attained varsity status after form- ing as a club sport in 19&0. Hana Yamashita '97 started the women's ice hockey club back in 1994. Two previous attempts at developing a club hockey program for women had been attempted yet the teams were unable to s.olidify the numbers and increasing ability that this team has shown thmugh- out the past four years. The women's club team hegan playing varsity teams tW() years ago and has been making unques- tionable progress since. The pro- gram is growing in two key areas, player interest and ability, etnd fail support. This year, there are cur- rentlv25 women onthetemn,more than any other year in the club's history. Last year's record -was 8- 2-0 against club teams and 9-8-3 overall but more importantly the women are motivated to keep im- proving. Jeff St. Vrain, one of the three vohtnteer coaches for this year's women's team stated that their suc- :::ess thus far can be attributed to their motivation to move up. \It's so easy to coach these girls be- cause they are so eager to learn. The coaches don't need to be huge mo- tivational fact()rs so we can <:oncen- trate on teaching them how to play.~' T 1 m Benson and Todcl Davis, the other tw() coaches, believe that the women are prepared for a new set of experi- ences. Benson said, \These worn en are so ready to make the move, you can see it. They want to play at that level and they will never give up.\ By bringing the women into the ECAC Alliance in the coming year, it will make their adjustment to varsity a smoother transition. The she described as being \my favor- ite part of running cross-country,\ and in her first race,. Slabich fin- islled first for the Union squad, an- swering any questions that she may have had. Despite having had a highly successful rookie cross- country season, in· which she was named tearn MVP, led .the team in most meets, had several very im- pressive performances, and set nu- merous- p e r - son a I he.sts, Slabich is re- luctant t 0 dwell 011 her achieve- ments. In do- i n g t h i s ' she ex- hibits a r e - fresh- off, but it was still a [competitive] sport.\ The one who was the biggest role model for S Iabich on the team was seniorcaptain Kelly Jamieson. Jamieson, accOFding to Slabich was \always there to makeyou laugh.\ Slabich said that \everyone looked up to KeHy._:she was such a leader and was as strong and consistent runner [as they come].\ Slabich m a y have looked up to Jamieson, but she always h a d some- o n e along- side to look to as well. Run- n i n g a Ion g w i t h Slabich i n g all sea- ,.,_ m o. d - · son was esty fellow despite cross- having ·country had an rookie 0 U t - K:ennySCottlfC jUnior stand- Union College Cross Country Runner AmyS/abich Jessica ing season, running the fastest Goveia. Slabichsaid that, \It was Union times in memory. great always to have someone [to Slabich spoke most freely about run with in races]. There was a her teammates and the memories possibility that Jess was going to she has garnered at Union so far in miss one meet...[ I was] so sad. I cross-country_ ¥1abich said that cannot run without her. Whenever \the cross-_cottntry team was like a we came up on each other in a race family ... and was definitely support- [it gave me] more energy. We work ive. No matter what you did [in a so well together.\ race], everyone respected you for In additi()n to Goveia and it. That took pressure off. The Jamieson, Slabich said that she team was great at taking pressure \loved cross-country [because . Alliancecurrentlyhas II teams and will be adding two more in the addition to Union next year. The game schedule will include a round robin style play for their own division, and one game against the remaining teams in the Alliance. This will account for 18 games with the possibility of adding another seven non-league games for a total of25. The Alliance is an appropriate home for Union college's women's team because it already houses schools with similar academic and athletic stature. \It really looks like a good place for us to be,\ commented Sakala. The transi- tion to var- sity the fol- lowing year will depend highly on school bud- g.eting, but Sakala was optimistic in its potentia I. Union . ~, , ~· C o I I e g e President Roger Hull showed strong sup- port for the proposal by explaining t h a t women's hockey was a plus for the school. \What I am really ex- Cory Silkenrrc cited about and looking forward to, is women on the ice getting to play at the varsity level at some point in the very near future,\ he said, \that will take place when the women want it to take place.\ of] ... all the different characters on the team_ .. Molly [Hood], Nick [Conway]~Jay[Goldberg], all were riots,.\ namingjusta few. Slabich says her best memory of cross-country was definitely regionals Vl!here the team ran in the snow. \The race was so silly, it definitely t<>ok the pressure off considering how big of a meet it was.\ The pressuremayhave been off, but Slabich was on that day in Saratoga State Park. She finished 40th out of 140 runners. Slabich gave kudos to head coach Charlie Casey, whom she described as be- ing, \really knowledgeable [and] probably was why we did so well. Preseason was so important and he made us rrepared. He is a great coach.\ Slabich felt that the arduous cross-country preseason was a significant Feason why she ran so well during the season. She also believes tlut in her first indoor track meet, last week at Hamilton, she was a little flat due to \not hav- ing had the )Jreseason like in cross- country.\ Despite being somewhat disappoi-nted with her season opening perf<>l111ance in the 1 OOOm, Slabich admits that she has higher expectations for track and for cross-country next year. Slabich hopes to fin is-h in the top ten in the UCAAs nex:tseason and would like to continue to run personal bests at every meet again. Although Amy Slabich exhibited a quiet demeanor, she ran aggres- sively all season long and had sev- eral tenacious races in some very talented fields. This aggressive- ness should prove well for Slabich over the next three years in com- petition where she should have further success, just do not expect her to tell you about it when she does. \We run ()Ur club program as a varsity progra111,\ explained Coach St. Vrain, \We take it seriously and so do the worn en.\ The main dif- ference for ne:xt year will be the greater abunda11ce of varsity teams that Union will face. Union wilr be paired with Hamilton as a travel partner in the West division and the schedule will be similar to that ofthe men's pro- gram where a majority of the games will be played ()n Friday and Satur- day nights. Sakala believes that one of the positive aspe(;ts of this move for women's icello<:keywill be its ben- efit to all women's programs at Union. \I would hope that this move would create an environment for our women's programs to be- come healthier programs and more competitive pr()grams across the board,\ he said. The wome11 's ice hockey team is anxiously lo()king f()rward to the coming years., as it will be a new step in their growth and success. \There's been a world of change in women's ice hockey and I think Union's situati<>n is almost ami- crocosm of the entire U.S. women's hockey over t:he past five years. It is thriving and I think it will con- tinue like this in the future,\ said Coach St. Vrain. As forUni()n Women'shockey, these transitions have been, and will continue to be, leaps and bounds in the right direction.

The Legalization of Sports Gambling · scandal. byGhris Leone Sp~rts Editor While millions of Americans watched the Super Bowl this past weekend, I could not help but think oftne amount of money being wage~ed on the gallle. It is a fair estimate to say that the NFL championship is the most wagered upon sp<>rting event, and consid- ering that most of A.merka does not live in Nevada, it is also fair to say that most of the gambling going 011 is not legaL Does it make it wr<>ng that millions gamble on a game? Should newspapers not publish the lines on any games'? Would legalizing sports .gambling be a good idea? All ofthese questions, and a few more, ran through my mind as thebig game developed. Let me go out on a I imb and say that most of America will gamble in some form some- time before our I ives end. Be it in an office pool, a fraternity pecl,.a race track, or even on a lottery ticket. While state lottery's are legal and help state revenues, it would only make sense to add sports gambling to the list of state run actions. Sports gambling would add billions in rev- enue and most likely lower the taxes being paid by the public. lfJohn Doe did not have to go to his local boekie and place a bet, and could just travel to ~lle comer convenience store, a great deal of other problems would be resolved. Illegal sports gambling is controlled by various groups. Ifyou ask the government, they would blame the Mafia for the illicit ac- tivit-ies. So why not dear up the crime and save tax dollars for real problems that plague society? Let me stop here before my readers sta11 writing that gambling is an addiction and hurts people. To those critics, I respond that alcohol (see last week's front page) and tobacco hurt people but last time it was checked they were legal. By this time my critics are saying that sports gambling is a risky trade in which the government could get burned. The people who know little about sports and gambling are the only people making this claim. When John Doe places a bet on the favorite, the bookie takes another bet for the underdog. Hence the term book maker, all that is involved is making sure the bets on either teams balance out. The profit comes from the vigorous debt, commonly referred to as the vig. The vig is similar to a service charge. It can range between I 0 and 20 percent of the wager. Which mean if you bet $100 and the vig is 20%, you pay$120 if you loose. With this process, bookmakers have prospered illegaLly since the beginnihg of time. The government could do the same if they legal- izedgambling. The legalization of sports gambling would be a great way to promote honesty in sport- ing events. Professional sports gamblers, and those who believe these people do not exist should wake up, make fortuliles on play- ing the odds. In the past years, the sports pages have been filled with college players being suspended for throwing games. Last year two players from Arizona State were indicted for fixing meaningless games that had huge spreads. Everyone is human, and nearly everyone can be bought. Yes, that one instance was in callege bas- ketball and not the pros. However, it would nottake much to tixaSuperBowl or a World Series. A few umpires, or a couple of key players, and some one will make a killing. For proof, just go·back in the history books to 19·19 and the infamous Chicago Black Sox Imagine the past Sqper 'l$o-wl being fixed. Wh,ile billions of dollars ar{! 11et, and the game is tied at 24. o_enver is 111arc:bing down the field and all of a sudden Jah.n Elwaydecides to throw an errant ·pass to Gilbert Brown, who scantpers in for theto1:1chdown. On thefollowingkickoff, Denver fumbled the ball. Green Bay recovers and with two quick p.lays is up by 14 points and covering the spread. Of course this did not happen. But who am I to say it could not hap)Jen? Could the average football fan tell the<lifference? No. The legalization ofspotts~ambling would end any speculation. Tlte athletes would have no reason to cheat. ¥es, they could still throw a game arnd col:lecta ton, but there is nothing stopping them fr()m betting ille- gally. With legal gambling, at least the gov- ernment could have some control. * * * * '* Last week I took the Pad -ers and the U n- der for 30 U's and lost badly. The bad weat·her prevented a trip to OTB and that was good because I d hf not need to handover 25% of my winrti11gsto the State. The current balance stands at -45 U's. This week there is little professional .ac- tion so I will hedge on 111 y 'bet. Take the Dutchmen Basketball team. Wager 30 U's per game for a total of60 U\s_ Also take RPI for 100 U's and the clean svteepofthe Skat- ing Dutchmen. A special thanks to the whole Concordy Sports Staff. While l was i.n bed battling bronchitis, everyone did a ~reat job, pu lied together, and remembered deadlines. Just another reason why I am lucky to have the best staff on the newspaper. Role Reversal Ice Hockey ... by David Weiner Ever since I can remember, on the last Sunday of January, I have traveled with my family to our friends annual \Super Sunday\ Super Bowl party, and tried to enjoy the game. Every year, ever since I can remember, without fail, the AFC has been trott.nced by a bigger, better, stronger NFC team. Without fail. No matter how big or small the Las Vegas spread, no matter what Spurts 1/fustruted prec.Jicts. the NFC always wins. As a New England Patriots fan, I of course cheer for the AFC team to take the prized Lombardi trophy home, but without fai I. each a!ld every AFC team finds a way not only to lose, but get blown out. The Bi lis (four consecutive times), the Steelers, tile Chargers, and yes, even my beloved Patriots, somehow managed to be good enough to reach the \show\, but bad enough to lose miserably. While these games are extremely boring, there does happen to be some solace in quietly watching the AFC fall. This relief comes in the form of extremely entertaining, interesting, and humorous commercials. The Super Bowl is Continuetijro?n pqge 17 Buckmei rmaking a bid to tie the scgre ashe tipped .a Jolm Wi II iam' s point shot towards the Union net. Shtrom stoppe-d that shot, but let out a rebound. Buckmeir chased it down and fire<! the puck on net with Shtrom out of position. Shtrom threw his gleve hand out and knocked away the puck, ending the Army threat. Only sec- onds later, Will came out of the penalty box and joine-d freshmen Ralph and Clark Jones on a three-on•one break. Ralph carTied the puck into the Army zone and then sent it to Jones wh <l fired it past Chamberlain with I: 19 left in the period. \Will went tothe net hard, and the defenseman went with him. I had a screen sh()t, but Jonesie the game which decided the World Champion, but also the time when large companies release their new and highly. was coming in hard. I dished it over, and Jonesie p11t it away,\ said anticipated commercial campaigns and slogans. From these commercials we met the Budweiser frogs, Spu<ls Ralph. McKenzie, Nike's \'Jlls.t Do It\ Pepsi's \Generation Next'', and even Fila's first big commercial with Jerry Stackhouse. The third period saw Union ice the game as Ralpru:ndjuniortri- Companies spend the !Jetter part of a year developing their Super Bowl ads. captain Mark Szucs scored. The freshmen line of Ralph, Jones, Super Bowl commercial watching has become almost as important as watching the game itself. IspentSuper Bowl and Smith had a phenomenal night, combining for three goals and Sunday at FIJI and pe()ple talked constantly during the game, but when there were breaks in action and commercials. four assists. \We've played together before, and we'\e seemed to played, everyone was silent. They even went as far as rating each commercial on a scale from one to ten on a click. Thingsjl.lst were going our way, We needed a win. Every- commercial list published by various newspapers. Commercials are anticipated as much as the game, and most body was pumped up. We were just clicking tonight,\ said Ralph years, the game pales in comparison to the commercials. who netted his second of the season on his third period short- This year., however, we experienced a role reversal. For the first time in thirteen years, an AFC team emerged handed tally. victorious in the Super Bowl, but there were few, if any, entertaining commerc.ials. I said before that I am a perennial The 6-3 win ups Union's record to 4-16-2 on the season and was A FC fan, but I hate the Broncosand so, for the first tim e,l cheered for the NFC and the NFC lost. This year's contest the team's first win since defeating Cornell 4-2 on December 5 at came down to the final seconds, while Super Bowls i11 years past have seemingly been over in just a few seconds. Achilles Rink. Head coach Stan Moore was ple~~ed with the The commercials of years past have been incredibly funny and entertaining, but this year they were lame and Dutchmen's performance. \That's number four. Follr will get you definitely lacked creativity. five. We have ECAC games from here on in. The ne\t one will feel Specifics. For weeks, the Budweiser lizards have been conspiring against the frogs. Anyone who pays attention as good as this one does. I'm very happy for the f~llows. They had to know the frogs were going to die, but who could h.ave guessed that the entire idea would be abandoned and have that monkey off their backs,\ he said. Budweiser would retum to its traditional, boring, infollTlational commercials? For the first time in years Pepsi did not The Dutchmen need to take their momentum into 11ext Saturday live up to par and Nike' s \I Can\ adds were somewhat comical (\I can ....... photocopy ........ my face ... etc.). They night's game against RPI to be in a position to vie for a pl~yoffslot. made you feel somewh~t incompetent, but were funny nonetheless. Nissan, the company with what 1 felt were the Face-off time at the Houston Field House is 7:00PM. most creative advertisements last year completely bailed on the Super Bowl this year. The only redeeming commer- cial this year was Doritos 3D chips and that w:as mainly because of their female actress. Between the Pipes While 1 am glad this year's game was entertaining and that John Elway finally won his long awaited Championship Charlie Moxham has five goals in five games. Bre11t Ozarowksi ring, there was a co1np Jete reversal in the day's course of events. The NFC usually wins in a blowout and the is on a five game point scoring streak. Mark Szt~cs leads the commercials are usually very entertaining. This year,the game was great as the lead changed hands numerous times, Dutchmen with nine goals on the season. but the advertisements were lacking. I almost like things the old way and hopefully next year, companies will retum. ,v 1 , H C d to the commercial level they once were at and the NFC will begin a new reign (unless the Patriots reach the Super w-omen 8 ockey ontinue · · · · Bowl, of course). Union's time to show some dominance. Throughoutthe whole Every year, on the .first Sunday of January, the world convenes on their couches with mass amounts of food, and game, there was no question, Union was the better andntore skilled watches the Super Bo'\Vl Unfortunately, over the past years, this game has not been an entertaining one to watch team. From the start of the game, Union came out in control and as the NFC continually routs the AFC. However, the bright spot ofthese days, and the partial reason why so many scoring five goals in the first period. Scoring were jtJnior Sara people watch. are the e11tertaining commercials that accompa~y the game. This is the day that various companies Wilbur, freshman Allison Trowbrige, freshman Mic.helle Stein, launch their new prom()tional campaigns with humorous, interesting, and often wacky presentations. This year, .. sophomore Beth Gabriel and senior Laura Felton. In the second though, something ch.arJged. The Super Bowl was actually an excellent game and the commercials absolutely and third periods, the Dutchwomen kept up the t()ugh defense, sucked. What happened? · shutting o1.1t Skidmore. in a 6-0 final. se ci< in A tir re thl pi• wl n mt sti, at wt of Un Du lik€ ' rou to· hal thh

. h.:-·. !, .• · .:.'~·. ·• . •. Sports . . . The Legalization of Sports Gambling by Chris Leone .\port.\· Editor While rni llions of Americans watched the Super Bow I this past weekend, I could not help but think of the amount of money being wagered on the game. It is a fair estimate to say that the NFL championship is the most wagered upon sporting event, and consid- ering that most of America does not I ive in Nevada. it is also fair to say that most of the gambling going on is not legal. Does it make it wrong that millions gamble on a game? Should newspapers not publish the line~ on any games? Would legalizing sports gambling be a good idea? All ofthese question~. and a few more, ran through IllY mind a .... the btg !lame dt.>vcloped. Let llll' go out on a I imb and say that Hlll'>t of/\nh:rica \\ill !!<Hnble in some form somt:- time lwfun.: our li\L'\ end. Be it in an u!\lice pool. a fratanit~ pool. a race track. or L'\L'll on a lottL·r~ ticket. While state Iotter:- ·\are legal and hdr qatc rnenues. it would ()Jd~ make ',l'fl'>C Ill add srwrts gambling f(l the list of state run action-.,. Sport) garnhling would add billions in rev- enue and rnost like!) lower the taxes he ing paid h~ the public. If John Doe did not have to go to his local bookie and place a bet. and could just travel to the corner convenience store. a great deal of other problems would be resolved. Illegal sports gambling is controlled by various groups. Ifyou ask the government. they would blame the Mafia for the illicit ac- tivities. So why not clear up the crime and save tax dollars for real problems that plague society? Let me stop here before 111y readers start writing that ganthling is an addktion and hurt' reoph: 'ltl those critics. I resrond th<ll it kolwl I 'iCe I <t'>l wed\ front page) and toh;tL\(.'( l hurt rc.:()plc but ld:, t time it \\a~ d1e1.:ked the) \lt:re legal. By this time m: critics an.: '<I) in);! that '>ports gambling is a ri'>k) trade in \Illicit the government could ).!et burned. I he people \1 ltt1 know I itt It: i!bout sports and gambling an the only people nwk ing thi-.. claim. When l<lllll Doe places a bet on the favorite, the bookie takes another bet for tl1e underdtl~. !knee the term hook maker. all that is itnolved isnmking sure the bets on either teams balance ()U!. The profit comes from the vigorous debt. commonly referred to as the vi g.. The vig is sirn ilar to a service charge. It can range bt:twee11 10 and ::2() percent of the wagcr. Which mean if you bet $100 and the vig is 20%, you pil~ $ 120 if )OU loose. With ~ ' / ~ -:~ this process, bookmakers have prospered illegally since the beginning nf time. The g.overnment could do the same ifthey legal- i/cJ gambling. The kgali/ation ofsports gambling would be a great wa~ \t) promote honesty in \port- in~ n cnts. Pro k-ssional spo Its gamh lers. and tho\>L' \1 ho believe these people do not L':\i'>l shou IJ 1\ake up. make t(>rttmes on pia:>- ill);! thl· odds. In the past years. the sports pagts ha\e been tilled with mllegt: pla)ers being ~uspendt.>d for throwing gamt.:s. Last ~ear two rlayers from Arizona State were indicted for fixing meaningless games that had huge sprcads. Everyone is human, and nearly everyone can be bougllt. Yes, that one instance was ill college bas- ketball and not the pros. However, it would not take much to fix a Super Bowl or a World Series. A few umpires. or a c<Juple of key players. and some one will make a killing. For proof. just go back in the history books to 1919and the infamous Chicago Black Sox scandaL Imagine the past Super Bowl being fixed. While billions of dollars are bet, and the game is tied at 24. Denver is marching down the field and all of a sudden John Elway decides to throw an errant pass ~o Gilbert Brown, who scampers in for tfi!e touchdown. On the following kickoff, Denver fumbled the ball. Green Bay recovers and with two quick plays is up by 14 points and covering the spread. Of course this did not happen. But who am I to say it could not happen? Could the average football fan tell the difference? No. The legalization of sports gambling would end any speculation. The athletes would have no reason to cheat. Yes, they could sti II throw a game and collect a ton, but there is nothing stopping them from betting ille- gally. With legal gambling, at least the gov- ernment could han~ some controL * * * * * Last \H:ek I took tht: Packers and the Un- der for 30 U's and lost had!~ The had weather prevented a trip to OTB and that was good bl.!cause I did not need to !landover 25° o of my winnings to tht.> State. The current balance stands at 45 ll 's. This week there is little professional ac- tion so I will hedge on my bet. Take the Dutchmen Basketball team. Wager 30 lJ's per game for a total of60 U's. Also take RPI for I 00 U' sand the clean sweep oft he Skat- ing Dutchmen. A special thanks to the whole Concordy Sports Staff. While I was in bed battling bronchitis. everyone did a great job, pulled together, and remembered deadlines. Just another reason why I am lucky to have the best staff on the newspaper. Role Reversal Ice Hockey ... by David Weiner Continuedfo?npage 17 her sin ct.: J can remember, on the la~t Sunda:-- of January. I In vc travdc(] \I ith my rami ly to our friends annua I Buckmt:ir making a hid to tie the score as he tipped a John Wi II iam 's \Super Sunda) .. Super Bowl party, and trt cd toenio:-. the !!<ltne. l.,er) y~.:ar.t.:ver:-.inn: I can rL'mernoer. without f~Iil, point shot towarcls the lin ion net. Shtrom stopped that shot, but thL' A l·C ha<. bten trounced by a bigger. hl.'tter. ~tront!~:r NIT team \Vi thou t fai I. No matter ho\\ big or small the L<l<; lt.:t out ll rebound. Buckmeir cha)cd it down and fired the puck on V cgas -,prl·ad. rw matt~.·r ''hat .\ports Ill u~traft·ti pre d ich. thL' 1\ I L al\\ il.'.., 1\. im. net w itl1 S h twm out of po~ it ion. Shtrom t hre\\ his glm e hand out ,.\..,a \Jl'\\ lngland J>atrtols ran. I ofnlll he cheer for the:\!-( tc~trn to ta\-( thl' rrr;cd l.tllllhardrtroph: lll>llll', but and knm:kL'd (1\\<IY the pud. ending the Arm) threat. Unl: Sl'C- \\ rtlwut Ltil. each and ncr: AFC team lind-., it \\<t:'- rwtunl:-- to lmc but gl'l hlo\\11 nut Ilk· Bill .... ( four nlll'>t:Cuti\e ond.., later. \\'ill came out nfthL' penalty bo\\ and joined fre'ihlllL'tl time'>!. till· StL'ekr..,. thL' l har):!l'h. <llld )L:\. nen Ill) hdO\L'd i>.riritlh. \llllldHH\ ntanaged to be ~lloJ l'lltlll~h to Ralph;mdt\larkJone.. Ralph carried the fL'<h.:h till~ ··,flo\\··. hut ball enough to lt1\c llli\>L'rably 1 puck into the Arm: .rone and then sent it to .lone~ whD firL'd it ra'>t Wh i k the-;e games art: ex tremcl: boring. tiler,· dt~L:\ happl'll ltl {1e ~llfllL' ~l JiclCI..' in LJliiL'II: \\<llch ing the ,\ H · Lt II. ' Charnbt:rlatn with I: I 9 lefi in the pl'riod ··will\\ ent to the net hard. I hi-. rclidcnme .... in the form ofe\trctnd~ entertaining. interc-,tin~.c.tnJ hunH lrtlll'i commercial-.,. I he Super Bo'' I i.., and thL'Jdi..·nsL'm;m \\t.?llt with him. I had a scrL'etl \hot. but Joncsie thl' game which decided the World lh clttljl ron. hut ,Jho the time ,.,ftL'Il l<~rge com pan iL's rdease thci r ne\\ and high I;. w a-; cmni ng in hard I dished it m cr. and Jones ie put it away.\ said anticipated commt:rcial campaign~ and s.logan~. Frum these L\Millllercials. \.\e met the Budwei~cr frogs. Sruds Ralph. Me Kenzie. N ikt ·' \Ju~t Do It\ Pepsi's '\( 1e neratiun N c,c·. and even Fi Ia · s first hig commercial with Jerry Stackhouse. The tbird period ~aw Union ice the game as Ral rh and junior tri- Companies spend the better par1 of a :>L'ar developing their Super Bowl ads. captain Mark Szucs scored. The freshmen line of Ralph. Jones, Super Bowl commercial watching has become almo~t as import<lnt as watch i11g the game itself. I spent Super Bowl and Smith had a phenomenal night. combining for three goals and Sunday at FIJI and people talked constantly during the game. but 'd1en there \-\ere breaks in action and commercials four assists. \We've played together before. and we've seemed to played, everyone was silent. They even went as rar as rating ead1 commercial on a scale from one to ten on a click. Tl1ingsju<ot WL're going our way. We necdcd a win. I:very~ commerci<tllist published by various newspapers. Commerciah <~.re anticipate<.] as much as the game, and most body was pumped up. We were just clicking tonight.\ said Ralph yt.:ars. the game pales in comparison to the commercials. who netled his second of the season on his third period short- This year. however. we experienced a role reversal. For the first time in thirteen years, an A FC team emerged handed tally. victorious in the Super Bowl, but there were few, if any. entertaining com mere ials. I said before that I am a perennial The 6-3 win ups Union's record to 4-16-2 on the season and was A FC fan, but I hate the Broncos and so, for the first tirnc, I cheered f()r the NFC and the NFC lost. Tl1 is year's contest the team's first win since defeating Cornell4-2 on December 5 at carne down to the final seconds, while Super Bowls in years past have seeming!) been over in just a few seconds. Achilles Rink. Head coach Stan Moore was pleased with the The commercials of years past have been incredibly funny and ~ntertain i11g, but this year they were lame and Dutchmen's performance. \That's number four. Four will get you definitely lacked creativity. five. We have ECAC games from here on in. The next one will feel Specifics. For weeks, the Budweiser li:zards have been conspirittg against the frogs. Anyone who pays Jttention as good as this one does. I'm very happy for the fellows. They had to know the frogs were going to die. but who could have guessed that tl1e entire idea would be abandoned and have that monkey off their backs.\ he said. Budweiser would return to its traditional, boring, infonn ational COillfll ercials? for the first time in years Pepsi did not The Dutchmen need to take their momentum into next Saturday I ive up to par and Nikc 's \I Can\ adds wen~ somewhat comical (\l can ....... photocopy ........ my face ... etc.). They night's game against RPI to be in a position to vie f<lr a playoff slot. madl· you feel somewhat incompetent, but were funny nonetheless. N issan, the company with what I felt were the Face-off1ime at the Houston Field !-louse is 7:00PM. most creative advertisements last year completely bailed on the Super Bowl this year. The only redeeming commer- cial this year was Doritos 3D chips and that was mainly because of their female actress. Between the Pipes While I am glad this year's game was entertaining and that John El\'ay finally won his long awaited Championship Charlie Moxham has tive goals in five games. Brent Ozarowksi ring. there was a complete reversal in the day's course of events. The NFC usually wins in a blowout and the is on a five game point scoring streak. Mark Szucs leads the commercials are usually very entertaining. This year, the game wasgreat as the lead changed hands numerous times, Dutchme11 with nine goals on the season. ~---------------=~------------------------------- but the advertisements were lacking. I almost like things the old way and hopefully next year, companies will return to the commercial level they once were at and the NFC will begin a: new reign (unless the Patriots reach the Super Bowl, of course). Every year, on the first Sunday of January, the world convenes on tlleir couclles with mass amounts of food, and watches the Super Bowl. Unf011unately, over the past years, this g,ame has n()t been an entertaining one to watch as the NFC continually routs the AFC. However, the bright spot of these days, and the partial reasc:m why so many people watch, are the entertaining commercials that accompany the game. This is the day that various companies launch their new promotional campaigns with humorous, interesting, and often wacky presentations. This year, though, something changed. The Super Bowl was actually an ex<\:ellent garne and the commercials absolutely sucked. What happened? Women's Hockey Continued ... Union's time to show some dominance. Throughout the whole game, there was no question, Union was the better and more skilled team. From the start ofthe game, Union came out in control and scoring five goals in the first period. Scoring were junior Sara Wilbur, freshman Allison Trowbrige, freshman Michelle Stein, sophomore Beth Gabriel and senior Laura Felton. In the second and third periods, the Dutchwomen kept up the tough defense, shutting out Skidmore in a 6-0 final. se· cic inf AI: tin ret ' the pia wh Th1 mu stic at I wh ofc: T Un Dut like \} rou1 to f half this

Special thanks totlt-e Sports Information Depattment (A#Mera. TecmfM:tesaL~ !:ale) Somte: tilp:/Mv.wli11metUIUTCXYIYISPCRTSIWI'itrl1798.1Un . Set, 11122197 &t, 11129197 l.kioo005, Fmiltal600.5, Ro::h1sfer 528.5, WlBil&rnh415, . ~ lll. S<idrae, m. S.l.aM!ml 200.5. ()al<sm Women's Basketball Ends Long League Drought ... Womens Basketball story continued frompage 19 seven rebounds while also !'laying. tena- cious defense, holding William \Smith's lead- ing scorer, Liz Brown, to am ere five points. Also, Beth Perry put forth a s<llid effort, net- ting nine points and hauling in seventeen rebounds. Although Union was umable to sustain their strong first half·effort a11d carry their play in the second lulf, the:y were some- what satisfied with tile results-()ftheir play. The team realized th~ caliber of play they must attain to he the best, sa\\V th~t they can stick with a team such as Wililam Smith for at least part of a game, and n1ll.:st now learn what it takes to defeat sucb .a powerhouse of a team. Union 74- llamilt~n71) The first match-upllfthe seas<>n between Union and Hamilt()n did 11ot treat the Dutchwomen as well as the\ would have liked. While they played ~ell in the: first half en route to a nine point lead, the:yVtere unable to find the .offensive means in tl1e second half to protect their lead and ~vetitually lost this he~rtbreaker by sile point:s~ As the two teams took the floor for the second meeting, this time on Hamilton's home court, Union took the mentalityth\=t as Coach Mary Ellen Burt so tactfully put it, \We are not leaving until we win.\ In Union women's basketball history, there has never been a road victory versus Hamilton and Union, including this game, ·has onlydefeated Hamiltotl twice in twenty- three meetings . .With a team of nine fresh- men, very few players oii this Union team knew of the lack of success against this Hamilton team and thus has one thing on their minds: revenge for last weekis loss. From the opening tip to the final buzzer, this game was in question. B<>th teams found themselves diving for balls, looking for good shotsj and playirig solid, fundamental bas- ketball As the first half expired, Union held a vulnerable five point lead and with just minutes to go, Hamilton was forced to con- tinually foul Union players in order to pre- servetimeforacomeback. Union, however, stepped up when they needed it most, mak- ing nine o1:1t of ten free throws in :the final two minutes and 18 of23 free throws over- · all. As Ke-lly Johnson, the team's starting point guard said, \Hamilton came out much stronger on their home floor than whenthey played at Union, but .as a team, we played scrappy ~efense and patient offense and we had the desire. We weren't going t-o lose\. It was this mentality that enhanced Union's concentration and brought each players game to the level needed for victory. Both Union post players, Beth Perry and Leah Olivieri, scored twenty-one points and Kathleen Furlong added eighteen~ going three for seven from three point land and five for six from the free throw line. Leah Olivieri, recovering from a knee bruise suf- fered during the previous match-up with Hamilton, played an impressive thirty-eight minutes against Hamilton. As Coach Burt put it, \Leah is a tough girl who just wants to play ball. She really is a team leader and having her on the floor is a great confidence boost.\ Union's perfonnance versus Hamilton was perhaps their best performance of the sea- son. However, Coach Burt does not believe this team has reached its full potential yet. This team is twelve games into its season now and although this team has four fresh- men starters, Coach Burt expects her play- ers to play as experienced veterans. She believes the greatest difference be- tween high school and college basketball to be defense and rebounding. Now that her team lias learned the offensive patience they have been looking for, it is these new con- cepts that the team will emphasize in the coming days as they prepare for their next three contests versus Hartwick, Clarkson, and St. Lawrence. With their impressive victory over Hamilton, Union looks to find their first win- ning streak of the season, continually im- prov~ their record, but more importantly, continue to grow, learn, and quickly reach the level of potential they know they have As a side note, this past Sunday, the wometl's team hosted the third annual Union College basketball clinic at the lo- calYWCA. Having played three games in one week, it is Cr>mmendahle for this team to sacrifice their off day to work with the thirty young- sters that attended the clinic. This was above and beyond what is required of them and the team deserves much credit for their deeds. ...

&:t. 11122197 &:t, 11129197 · . Special thanks to the : · LCAA Ompimships @Ff'f Bfj.51 Loos 99-83 Loos Lnmfffi. Hanltm 6935. ~5285. Wian Smlh 415. RA 381. SJ<irrre. 272. s. laMm::e 2eil5. Oa1<soo 1435 In the Spotlight ... byPikeMody · Ifs a.sportthat most ofus know how to do, but few o:fus are g()Od enough at to compete. ftc; that one cliche tllat we are supposed to forget. Amazingly enough, we se!d()m hear .... ~:-~.--.nt this sport that most of us probably engaged in ev<eryday as children, even thoug11 its popularity has been somewhat steady throughout the years here at Union. This week, .. r spoke with presidentAndrew Huml abo1:1t Union's own Cycli11g Club. The Cycling Club was established some years ago,(mean- ing that Andy didn't remember exactly when it was f()unded and J couldn't dig the info up through tbe web) allowing Union students to compete in races around the East coast, irl· road cycling competition. It has always been primarily a l'{)iLd race team that competed in the spring only. lt currently holds: about sixty club members, although it only usually races betwe:en ten and thirteen. When asked why such a large discrepsncy in numbers Huml stated that a number ofindividualsjust come out to have a good time. He personally said he would ;lc:Jve to see the team's competitive numbers increase dramaticalliy, but at the same time, always feels tbatthe primary functi()JJ 'lOf tile club has been to have a good time and enjoy a commonl()-ve for cycling. Union Cycling is looking for a big spring se3son as they pIan on races at Princeton, Williams, West Point, Ru..tgers, Bu<:knell, UPenn, Umass. Bloomsberg, and Columbia. They practice twice a week in the area, with practice time d!:lpet!ding on the schedules of the team members. Huml stressed th;(l.t the club was about having fun and being competitive. fles;tated that \We are competitive, have a good time. and we trr very . hard to balance both the setious and pleasure seeking as.pects that we love about cycling.\ When asked why they only <eom- peted in the spring, Huml said that that is about to change. After a very successful non-competitive mountain bilking season, the team organized a day trip to Mount Snow ~v.here club members could take, as Huml des<:ribed, \a fun ri!le for those who wanted to spend an easy day riding with aprtOfes- sional guide.\ He also mentioned what I could tell wa.s his favorite aspect of the trip. For those members who were 'Jiuali- fiedriders, the club sponsored,a downhill run that a member could make by taking a ski lift to the top of the mounP~in with their bike and then cruising down at whatever neck-breaJdng pace they saw fit. The success of the event was evidetlt to Hum I and the rest of the club officers. ''There wasn't any rea- son that people shouldn't have wanted to go,\ Huml stat<:O., \it was an easy ride for those who wanted it and it was great chance to d<l some terrific downhill biking. The club backed the trip and anyone who came said they had a great time.\ Consid~1ing the positive turnout they had, not only did Huml s·ay tlut the plans for next fall's trip are already in the works, he s:aid that starting in the fall of 1998, the Cycling Club will have itslirst competitive mountain biking season. \A lot of riders ·erljoy both types ofriding, and after how well this fall went, we de- cided that it was something that we needed to do,\ Hurnl said. As the spring gears up, the club is looking forward to I:J~ing . much more competitive than in recent years. With the arrivaJ of Sooroo:~:J~ooi<ned.UlJTOlo\Y/SPCRTSWrtB9798.ttn fresllman sensation Seth Wolfinan, who placed fifth in thejJUn- ~============~-------------=============~lior national competition, the club is looking to bring cycling at Spo.rts Information Department ·. ~. - ' 'V'omen 's Basketball Ends Union back into the limelight. Anyone who has any interest \\ ~ with either road racing our mountain biking should contactAn- drew Hum I as the club is always happy to welcome new m~m­ Long League Drought ... bers. You don't need tQ be competitive to be part ofthe club.- its not anytbing that most people have to learn how to do, a11d it would be a great way to do some travelling and have a grCJat time that can foster memories for year to come. Think ofittl1is way: its kind of like riding a bicycle, you'll never forget. Women s Basket-ball story continued ..from page 19 seven rebounds while also playing tena- cious defense, holding William Smith's lead- ing scorer, Liz Brown, to a mere five points. Also, Beth Perry put forth a solid effort, net- ting nine points and hauling in seventeen rebounds. Although Union was unable to sustain their strong first half effort and carry their play in the second half, they were some- what satisfied with the results of their play. The team realized the caliber of play they must attain to be the best, saw that they can stick with a team such as William Smith for at least part of a game, and must now learn what it takes to defeat such a powerhouse ofateam. Union 74- Hamilton 70 The first match-up of the season between Union and Hamilton did not treat the Dutchwomen as well as they would have liked. While they played well in the first half en route to a nine point lead, they were unable to find the offensive means in the second half to protect their lead and eventually lost this heartbreaker by six points. As the two teams took the floor for the seC()nd meeting, this time on Hamilton'shomecourt, Union took the mentality that, as Coach Mary Ellen Burt so tactfully put it, \We are not leavi11g until we win.\ In Union women's basketball history, there has never been a road victory versus Hamilton and Union, including this game, has only defeated Hamilton twice in twenty- three meetings. With a team of nine fresh- men, very few players on this Union team knew of the lack of success against this Hamilton team and thus has one thing on their minds: revenge for last week's loss. From the opening tip to the final buzzer, this game was in question. Both teams found themselves diving for balls, looking for good shots, and playing solid, fundamental bas- ketball. As the first half expired, Union held a vulnerable five point lead and with just minutes to go, Hamilton was for<:ed to con- tinually foul Union players in order to pre- serve time for a comeback. Union, however, stepped up when they needed itmost, mak- ing nine out of ten free throws in the final two minutes and 18 of23 free throws over- all. As Kelly Johnson, the team's starting point guard said, \Hamilton came out much stronger on their home floor than when they played at Union, but as a team, we played scrappy defense and patient offense and we had the desire. We weren't going to lose\. It was this mentality that enhanced Union's concentration and brought each players game to the level needed for victory. Both Union post players, Beth Perry and Leah 01 ivieri, scored twenty-one points and Kathleen Furlong added eighteen, going three for seven from three point land and five for six from the free throw line. Leah Olivieri, recovering from a knee bruise suf- fered during the previous match-up with Hamilton, played an impressive thirty-eight minutes against Hamilton. As Coach Burt put it, \Leah is a tough girl who just wants to play ball. She really is a team leader and having her on the floor is a great confidence boost.\ Union's performance versus Hamilton was perhaps their best performance ofthe sea- son. However, Coach Burt does not believe this team has reached its full potential yet. This team is twelve games into its season now and although this team has four fresh- men staJiers, Coach Burt expects her play- ers to play as experienced veterans. She believes the greatest difference be- tween high school and college basketbafil to be defense and rebounding. Now that her team has learned the offensive patiencetlley have been looking for, it is these new C.()n- cepts that the team will emphasize in the coming days as they prepare for their It ext three contests versus Hartwick, Clark!> on, and St. Lawrence. With their impressive victory <J\'Ver Hamilton, Union looks to find their first \Yin- ning streak of the season, continually im- prove their record, but more importantly, continue to grow, learn, and quickly reach the level of potential they know they hne As a side note, this past Sunday, i!he women's team hosted the third alli1Ua! Union College haskethall clime at Jhe lo- cal YWCA. Having played three games in mu: w~.ck, it is commenduhle fur this team to sacriflce their off day to work with the thirJ.v J-mtng- sters that at/ended the clime. This ~~·w; above and heyond whut is required<?,[ them and the If.! am dc.•set-ves much credit fc~r Lh.eir deeds ....

' - • ( ( \ ( \ \ t t \ \ c L ( l c

