.. •r.Jnyt~ilng ~ wh~fch~jiJi;.enis kiive ~not iearned /rom' eXperli£ni:e· ihey cau- now learn\ /rom their children. \ -Anonymous -~ \''\'~'\ This Week Students Speak Out for Change News: A day of philanthropy and fun at u ... cARE Page4 Opinions: Letters Support Professor A.T. Miller Page 8 by Jessica Zuehllte News Editor \Union talks a lot about tradi- tion,. but when will .jt ever talk a bout chang~, and the ·changes that A.T. . Miller has made ... [Miller] wants · what we want, but that's not what · they want. [The.,administration] stands for tradition, we stand for · change.\ These words, spoken by Devon Wimberly '0 I, demonstrate the passion found within the audience last Friday after- noon during tbe rally in- . •. tended to inform the campus of Professor A.T. Miller's de- nial for tenure. The hot sun became stron- ger as the crowd outside t Campus Center gradually grew. An open ....,., ... ,. ....... and amplifier allowed emo- tional students to give ver- . bal testimony to Miller' . . .------~--~----'--:1 teaching and outreachto th World News: Jesse Jackson's Controversial Rescue Page 12 Sports: community. Three large sheets oung from the win- dows above the mic, rea~ctmllt •. \Why? Do U Care to · Know?\ In response to this qu tion, Dean of the Faculty, Linda Cool said, \There is very little that can be said about the decision. People want to know why but we can't answer them because of confiden- tiality.\ Pamphlets were being distrib- . uted on the speaking etiquette as FOX news set up their television camera. Hemwatie Ramasami '99openec:l the event by informing the audi· ence cfthe recent decision. \There: is a universal need t() raise aware- ness.\ She reviewed the tenure process and questioned the things that thetenure-review board evahJc a ted. Kafi ·Sanders, '99 challenged Union students to \reevaluate the community.\ In an interview wHh Concordiens is, Professor Newman, Miller's ad hoc commit- tee chairperson, defined the ten- ure process. The ad hoc commit- tee is made up offour faculty mem- bers. One comes from t~e candidate's department, one from the division and one from each of the centers. These faculty mem- bers inJestigate the three aspects through the department syllabi, course evaluations, course exams, sit-ins on classes, and interviews of random students and alumni. \1his aspect of the professor's perfonnance is really scrutinized by the tenure committees,\ Dean Cool commented. Scholarship consists of the professor's research and publica- tions.. The th i.rd part of a professcr's work that is considered is his/her service. This re- iiiliiiB_,.,_......-l fers to the degree to which . Ibrahim Adamu '99 gives verhaf testimony to what he considers to he excellent teachbr2, by Professor Miller. your education.\ She continued, \Miller brought to his classes a wide array of perspectives on [Af· rican] culture. He effected our knowledge in the classroom and in up for review, the professor's teach- ing, scholarship and service. Dean of Faculty Linda Cool spoke of the criteria for awarding tenure. Teaching is evaluated they mentor students, offer lectures about their research, and stand on committees within the school. A professor's teaching and scholarship are the two most important items taken into account when considering tenure. \A professor must be evaluated 'excellent' on of these items and at least 'very good' on the other [in order to be granted ten- ure].\ After hearing the testi- mony from the ad hoc com- mittee, the FRB meets and makes a recommendation. This recommendation is given to the President through the Dean ofthe Fac- ulty. The ultimate decision is up to the Board ofTrustees, who are at the top oft he college's hier- archical division of power. Continued Oil page 4 Track Competes at States SportsCenter's Robin Roberts Speaks at Union Page 23 Inside Campus News -3 Opinions :- 8 Features - 10 ~ World News -12 by David Brooks Editor-in-Chief As Robin Roberts walked to the podium of Memorial Cha)>el Tuesday night, there was no SportsCenter music or high lights from the night's sporting events; instead there ~tood a women who has helped change the image of women's athleti<1s through her roll with ESPN and ABC. Aside from anchoring ESPN's SportsCenter and hosting ABC's Wide World of Sports, Roberts has covered events Ji.ke the NFL Draft, Wimbledon, and, most recently, has been a play-by-play commen- . tator of the WNBA. · A&E-14 Roberts was introduced by Cheryl Rockwcod, the athletic Technology -16 department's Senior Women's Administrator, who was respon- C' lJ sible for bringing Roberts to the ..ipOrfS - · · Campus. Rockwood noted how Roberts had to pass on the Our E-mail WNBA draft which was post- poned from last week until Tues- day due to a recent labor dispute. COnCOrdy@ Roberts spoke -of her youth as 'VU. union. edu a 5' 10'; eighth grader who WCIS a a.----- ............. ...._ ___ _,. dominant basketball player. But as she grew older, her size no longer was an advantage and she had to perfecther\l8 foot jumper offtlu glass.\ After perfecting the jumper; Roberts was given a scholarship to play basket- r------~ ball for the University of South eastern Louisiana. Roberts reiter- ated through- out her ~peech to \11ever sight ofthe big picture.\ Ten-. nis was her first love and passion in sports, but she never h what it took to reach her goal ofWimblcdon .. So slle di the Sports director of a local radio station and did the highlights be- fore her 8:00 AM class. There was a catch, however; she needed to be DJ on the weekend. Remember- ing the big pic- ture, Roberts accepted the 9-IAM time slot on Satur- day night. The station was all country, and she vividly re- members those nights. After gradu- ating, Roberts was offered a b at a local news station paying about $18,000. She was also of- fered a sports what she. thought was the ncx t best '·''.'<!f '----- ob that paid $5.50/hr, 30 hours a week. ~~~~~~~She took the thing: become ABC and ESPN sports anchor, sports job. involved in sports casting. She became Robi~P~ Roberts. In 1987 , at the age of 26, ESPN interviewed her for an anchor job. Not sure the direction ESPN was going, she decided to wait a while. By 1990, Roberts was work- ing for ESPN on SportsCenter, do- ing what she loved. \It's become a culture. It's wonderful,\ remarked Roberts of her career. After her brief biography, Rob- erts then invited the audience to ask questions. For the next forty minutes, Roberts answered a host of questions from the Memorial Chapel audience. She had some problems in the early stages of her career, as she . was not always allowed in the locker room, losing valuable mate- rial male sportscasters were get- ting. She finally just went into the locker rooms, knowing without the interviews her career was in jeop- ardy. \I want equal rights to lh<' ath Jete s. not the locker room.\ stated Roberts. While dating then Hawks for- ward Dominique Wilkins, Roherts felt as though she was being treated differently. \People began wondering if I was going in a re- Omtinued 011 page 5

''Anyi~itng- which ·parents have not leatned from experience they can now learn from th~ir children.\ -Anonymous This Week News: A day of philanthropy and fun at U-CARE Page 4 Opinions: Letters Support Professor A .. T .. Miller PageS World News: Jesse Jackson's Controversial Rescue Page 12 Sports: Track Competes at States Page 23 Inside Campus News- 3 Opinions- 8 Features -10 to World News -12 A & E -14 Technology -16 Sports- 21 Our E-mail concordy@ vu.union.edu ~----------------------~ Students Speak Out for Change by Jessica Zuehlke News Editor \Union talks a lot about tradi- tior~. but when will it ever talk about change. a!'ld the chamges that AT. MiHer has made ... [Miller] wants what we want, but that's not what they waAt. [The .. administration] sta!lds for tradition, we stand for change.\ These words, spoken by Devon Wimberly '0 I, demonstrate the passion found withil'l the audience last Friday after- noon during the rally in- tended to inform the campus of Professor A.T. Miller's de- nial for tenure. The hot sun became stron- ger as the crowd outside the Campus Center gradually grew. An open microphone and amplifier allowed emo- tional students to give ver- bal testimony to Miller's teaching and outreach to the community. Three large sheets hung from the win- dows above them ic, readi \Why? Do U Care to Know?\ In response to this ques- tion, Dean of the Faculty,~~ Linda Cool said, \There is very litt.le that can be said about the decision. People want to know why but we can't answer them because of confiden- tiality_\ Pamphlets were being distrib- uted on the speaking etiquette as FOX news set up their television camera. Hemwatic Ramasarni '99 opened the cveflt by informing tile audi- ence ofthe recent decision. 'There is a tmivcrsal need to raise awart.:- ness.\ She reviewed the tenurL' process and questioned the things that thctcnurL'-rcview board evalu- ated. Kafi ·Sanders, '99 challenged Union students to \reevaluate the COIIH11Ul1Jly.\ In an interview with Cuncurdic:nsis, Professor Nn-Hn<m, Miller's ad hoc commit- tee ehai rperson, defined the ten- ure process. The ad hoc colnmit- tL'e is made up off our faculty mem- bers. One comes from the candidate's department, one from the division and one from each of the centers. These faculty mem- bers inv\stigate the three aspects through !he department syllabi, course evaluations, course exams, sit-ins on <:lasses, and intervievv'5 of ramlo rn students and alumni \This aspect of the profe~;,sor'~ perfonnance is really scrutinized hy the tenure committees,\ Dean Cool commented Scholarship con'iists of the professor's research and publica- tions. lhe third part of i1 profl:ssor'S\.\Ork that is con~idercd is hisfher service. This re- \\:,;;;;.iii&~r ...... --,fers to the degree to which they mentor students, offer Icc tll res about their research. anc.l stand on committt:e' witrnin the school. A professor's teaching and scholarship are the two most irn(lortant items taken int<l aCC()Uflt when considering · tenure. \A professor must be e'Valuated ·excellent' on one of these items and at least 'very good' on the othL'r [in order to be granted ten- urer' After hearing the test\- mO'IIJ' from the ad hoc com- mittee. the FRB meets and ~~:::::~~;:§~~~~~makes a rccommcmlation. Sloan Milltr/H · Tlli s recommendation IS Ibrahim Adamu '99 gives verhal testimony lo Hhal he considers to be giv ell to the President excellent leaching by Professor Miller. tiHough the Dean ofthe Fac- your education.\ She continued, \Miller brought to his classes a wide array of perspectives on [Af- rican] culture. He effected our knov.-lcdge in the classroom and in up for review, the professor's teach- ing, scholarship and service. Dean ()f Faculty Linda Cool spoke oft. he criteria for awarding tenure leaching is evaluated ulty. The ultimate Jecision is upt<J the 'Board ofTrustces, who are at the 101p ofthe college's hier- archical division of power OnrJinued 011 page 4 SportsCenter's Robin Roberts Speaks at Union by David Brooks Editor-in-Chief As Robin Roberts walked to the podium of Memorial Chapel Tuesday night, there was no SportsCenter music or high I ights from the night's sporting events; instead there stood a women \\oho has helped change the image of \\omen':, athlcti~..~ through hc.:r rull \\ ith f~SPt\ .111J t\BC. A-,iJl' fwrn anchming ESPN's SportsCcnter and hosting ABC's Wide World of Sp<Jrts, Roberts has covered events like the NFL Draft, Wimbledon, and, most recently, has been a play-by-play commen- tator of the WNBA. Roberts was introduced by Cheryl Rockwood, the athletic department's Senior Women's Administrator, who was respon- sible for bringing Roberts to the Campus. Rockwood noted how Roberts had to pass on the WNBA draft which was post- poned from last week until Tues- day due to a recent labor dispute. Roberts spoke of her youth as a 5'10\ eighth grader who was a dominant basketball player. But as she grew older, her size no longer was an advantage and she had to perfect her\ 18 foot jumper off the glass.\ After perfecting the jumper, Roberts was given a scholarship to play basket-.-------~ ball for the University of Sou t h e a st c rn l.oui<>iana. Rnherts rcitcr- all'd thr1ll1gh-. out her ~pL'ed1 to \never lose ..,ight oft he big picture.\ Ten-· nis was her first love and passion in sports, but she never had what it took to reach her goal of Wimbledon. So she did what she thought was the next best the Sports director of a local radio station and did the highlights be- fore her 8:00AM class. There was a catch, however; she needed to beDJonthcweckcnd. Rcmcmhcr- ing the big pic- ture, Roberts accepted the Q - l A 1\1 t i m c slot on Satur- day night The 't.ttiPn \\ :1'- :Ill c ou n t r: . ~~ n d she vividly re- n1 e m h L' r s those nights. After grJdu- ating, Roberts was offered a job at a local news station paying about $18,000. She was also of- fered a sports job that paid $5.50/hr, 30 hours a week. thing: become involved in sports casting. ~~~~,..,..~.,......She took the ABC and ESPN sports anchor, sports job. '----- Robin Roberts. 1 n 198 7 , at She became the age of 26, ESPN inter'Viewcd her for an anchor job. Not sure the direction ESPN was going, she decided to wait <~ while By Y 990, Rohert<; was work- ing fm FSPN on Sportc;Ccnter, do- ing what she loved. \It's become a culture. It's wonderft1l.\ remarked Roberts of her career. t\ftcr fln\-1rit'fhiog.raphy, Rnn- cr1<; tllc•1 i nYitrd the :lllciienre \' :J<;k q liC''ticm<; rnr the next fprt~ tninu1t\'· R:.,h·rtco :1!''\\Cred 1 hno.:t \f (jLll'~lil•l1\ fn1111 the \knh,rl,tl Chapel n1dicnce Sh~..· fl:tll -;nllll' rrPhkm-; in th t' carl~ stages t'f her career. ac; o;ht• was not :ah\a)'> :tllt1\\Cd in tbt loc k~r ro(lm, loc;ing valuahlc mate- rial male sp1lrlscastcrs were get- ting She finally just went into the lock~rroon1s, knowing without the interviews Iter career was in jeop· ardy. \I want equal rights to the athletes, not the locker room,\ stated R()berts. While tlating then Hawks for- ward Dotn inique Wilkins. Roberts felt as tllough she was being treated differently. \People began wondering if I was going in a re- Collti,ued 011 page S

... . .. ~ - Page 2 • May 6, 1999 • QI.o.lt.c,orb-iensis Security Incident Report Sunday, April25, 1999: U nautllorized Entry Reckless Endangerment Criminal Mischief LifeSafe1y Violation Aggravated Harassment Monday ~April26, 1999: ImmobilizedV ehicle Tuesday, AI'ril27, 1999: Criminal Mischief lmmobilizedV ehicle Unauthorized Entry OffCampus Incident (Reported Road Rage) Criminal Mischief Wednesclay, April28, 1999: lmrnobilizedVehicle nespass Boating Accident Trespass. LifeSafety Violation Life Safety Violation Harassment Trespass Thursday, Apri129, 1999: Fireworks Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Larceny Motor Vehicle Accident Unauth()rize<l Access Trespass Friday, April30, 1999: Alcohol Violation Criminal Mischief Emergency Pole Saturda,,~ayl,l999: Disorderly Conduct Trespass Criminal Mischief FireAlann l :47am FoxHall. StudententeredresidencethFu window student identified ancl Conduct Charges filed. l :54am South College. Studentslhooting BB 'sin vicinity of Campus Safety Officers. Studentidentified and Conduct Charges filed. 9:15am FIJI.. Vandalism to batfl ro()m area, Cbrnduct Charges fi.Jed. 2:34pm Richmond Hall. Prop peel south maill entFance door. Life Safety Violation issued. ill :05pm Richmond Hall. Pranl< phone calls. 1\\dv.ised to contact Telecommunications, 6:47pm Reamer Center area.Stuclent vehicle innmobilized due to outstanding violations. 5:12am West College. Windowpanes broken out. Conduct Charges filed. I 2:42pm North Terrace Lane. Veil ide immoiJll ized due to outstanding violations~ 3:50pm Off Campus propeJ1y. D~.or kickedi n. No suspects identified. 2:24pm OffCampus. Report ofroad rage. SP'D notified. I 0:48pm WestCoUege. Vanda:I:is.m to hallwa.y.C<mduct Charges filed. l :39pm Library Lane. Vehideilllmobilizeddlte to outstanding violations. 3:03pm Fieldhouse. Youths adv ]sed of privoate property status. 4:50pm Boathouse. Boating acc:ident whidtcaused the Crew Team's powerbo•at to sink. No- injuries reported. b:OOpm Social Sciences area. Non students ;advised ofprivate property status. 9:05pm Sigma Chi. Proppedd()OPF. LifeSafe~Yi()Iation issued. 10: I Opm Edwards House. Pro~ped door. Life Safety Violation issued. £ l :30pm Davidson Hall. Harassment alledgeil. Conduct Charges filed. II :25pm Davidson Hall. Ve11dq~r enteredresiden~e~ Let in by student. Vendor a.<Jwised ofpri'vated property status. l2:00am West Beach. Student identified. C()n.ductCharges filed. 12: 13am West College. Ceilingtiles vandaliz:eod. Conduct Charges filed. 2:55am Achilles Rink park:ingarea .. Vandalism to vehicle. 12:50pm S&E. Missingdigitalcamera. 2: lOpm Off campus storagefacil ity. Prope~'«lamage accident. No injuries. 4:09pm Psi Upsilon. Vandalisnt~room door .. !Entry gained. Nothingmissing. 7:20pm Davidson Hall. Food vmdor advised()f delivery policy. 8: l5pm Sigma Chi Violations{>fSocial Policy. Conduct Charges filed. 8:21pm Huntley Lane area. U1uuthorized us.e afCampus Facilities vehicles. 9:44pm False emergency pole ac:ti vation. Smspect identified. Conduct Charges filecl 3:08am Seward Place. Suspect klentified. CC>IlductCharges filed. 2: 18amHuntley Lane area. Tw;Qjuvenilesaclv-ised of private property status. (i: 16pm Richmond Parking area 1' oilet paperilndpaper toweling strewn abotrtarea. 7:19pm Richmond House. Accidental fire alarm caused from cooking. ,strategies for survival if confr~nted with assault: * Non-resistance to prevent physical violence * Negotiate * Stall for time * Distracting or diverting the assailant, then fleeing * Verbal assertiveness * Screaming, using a whistle or shriek alarm to attract attention or help * Physical resistance - techniques which may be used as a last ditch effort to escape an attacker. Announceln. \fDts· . - . . . SMILE! You could be a Star! Be on the lookout for Photographers Filming. the New Admissions Video .. Announ.cing tbe Ninth AnuualCbarles P. Steinmetz. SyRiposium May 7, 1999 Presentations tomorrow beginning at 9 AM. Classes have been anceled to encourage students and faculty to attend presentations. Programs with p,roject summaries are a\iaila>ble around campus. Union College Spring Scramble GolfTournament Sunday, May 30 Sign-Up Sheets Available in Campus Center If your organization is interested in sp()nsor- ing tbe event, contact Erik Lukach at raymonde@union.edu. Proceeds will benefit the Cocoa House. Welcome Parents!! Check the Union College web page for a list <lf activites planned for t~.is weekend. Usher,s Needed for Com·meucement 1999 See Donna Johndrow in the Students Activities Office, Reamer Campus Center Room 4()8 Check out the New Concordiensis Webpage! · Visit www.vu. union.edul-concortlp for the latest look into campus news, opinions, sports and features. Robert Avon Smith Summer Research Fellow- ship in: Bio~Medical Engine.ering at U ni()U College. The fellowship is sponsored by Robert Avon Smith, Class of 1952. It is awarded to students in the scienc:;es or engi- neering wlzo participate in a summer research progtam ilt bio-medic~l engineering under the guidance ~~ Union College faculty. The award will be made available to a student $elected on the basis of ability to conduct independent research in bio- medical engineering and commitment to the Slimmer research program. Students interested should contact Professor J. Richard Sh.anehrook in the Dep~rtment o{ Mechanical Engineering. An Ad Hoc Committe For1ned to C()osider Tenurability of Susan Lehrman, Assistant Professor of the GMI Any member oft he campus community who wishes to offer written or oral testimQ!IIY con- cerning Assistant Professor Lehrman's teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Hilary Tann at x6566, tannh@union .. edu. Reappointment Review ofP.rofessor Hyungii Park Faculty,.students and administrators familiar with Professor Park's teaching, scbola.ry ltctivity,. and/or C()llege service are welcome to submit comments to Professor Bonney MacDonald, Chair of the English Deparment at macdonab@union.ed11. .( m S.( CI til at c re SJ A t~ te A r~ nl tr It le h: pi ei al a1 g ... VI t< fi ti li n n F t

Campus News Qiomorbi.ens;is• May 6, 1999 • Page 3 NeW Schedule Reduces·· Students Express Concern About Doids Long Lunch Lines by Mary Felton Staff Writer by Dean Linda Cool Contributing Writer Stariillg in Fall 1999, Union will make changes to the daily class schedule in order to reduce crowded dining rooms at lunch .. time .. The issue was brought to the attention ofthe Academic Affairs Council last term by a student rep- resentative on the council. In re- sponse to an initial proposal, the AAC formed a subcouncil to study the issue~ which proposed five al• ternative calendars from which the AAC chose. Tbe main problem with the cur- rent system is that facilities can- not accommodate all the students tryi11g to eat during the common lunch hour. To resolve this prob- lem, the AAC voted to make the lunclt h()ur 15 minutes longer to pro\ide more time for students to eat. Morning classes will start at 8:25AM, five minutes earlier than they do now, and afternoon classes will start at 1:40PM, ten minutes later than they do now. tht:. dining rooms shQuld be able to . handle each gro11p withoutthe long · ' \How do you spell Doid?\ was lines, waits, andcro~ding that arise one of the many questions posed from everyone getting out of class · atlastweek.'spanel ontheUnion- at the same time. Common lunch Schenectady present-day re}a .. hourmeetingswillstartat I 2:25PM·, tionship held in the Nott Memo- andrununtill:3()PM. rial. This event was the second The changeswilll:le reviewed in the Fall2000. In the meantime, the AAChopes thattltese changeswill make it easier for everyone to eat lunch without the :inconveniences • of the current system. The new class ~cbedule: Class:periods: MWF: 8:25AM to 9::3~AM, 9:40AM to 10:4-5AM, 10:55 AM t() 12::00 PM or 11:10 AM to 12: 15 PM, l :40 PM to 2.:45 PM, 2:55PMto4:00 PM, 4:00PM to 4:4:5FM (thislasttime period is optional:an{i may be com- bin¢dwith the 2:55PM to 4:00PM period for a longer seminar-type ·Course()n M-W or'W~F). TTh: 9:15AM to 11 :()5 AM, l:40PMto3:30 PM Tfh: 11:15AMto !2:20PM F: J2:25PMto 1:30PM Lab periods: MWF: t :40PMto4:30 PM Tfb: pm of a three~part series titled, · \The Union-Schenectady Rela- tionship: Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow.'' The talks are spon- sored by Wells House. This event encouraged members • of the Union community andthose of the Schenectady community to discuss the present status of the · Union-'Schenectady relationship. Questions were directed to- wards a panel of members form · Union artdfromthecity. The panel consisted of Union Dean of Stu- dents Fred Alford, President of Schenectady City Council Joe Allen, Union Professor A.T. Mil1er, · member of the Schenectady Inter- . city Mission Jim Murphy, Mike · Parisi '0 1, Union Directorof Affir- . mative Action and Community Outreach Gretchel Tyson, Mike · Winn '00, and Carl Strock, from · The Gazette Newspaper. Wells House member Ed Lallier . was the primary organizer for the . event. He also mediated the panel • and posed questions to the pan- . elists. Many issues were discussed · between panelists and. audience members. There seemed to be a · general sentiment of blame di- --------------------------------1 rected towards the students at Als(},. to prevent the problem of aU students wanting to eat lunch at the same time, the classes which now run from 11:00 AM t<;~12::05 PM will be diyided into two groups. About half of them will start at 10:55 AM andrununtill2:00 PM; the ctherbalfwill start at ll: 10 AM and run untill2:.15 PM. Students willtherefore come to l11nch in two gro11ps,. rather than all at once, and &:15 AM to 11 :()5 AM and 1:40 PMto4:30 PM New Union Web Page Union for their lack of involvement in what Schenectady has to offer. Dean Alford approached this issue by proposing that Union by Erin ConnoiJy StaffWriter &pring term brings beautiful weather and prospective students toUnion College. These incoming fresilmen have millions of ques- tions on their rni:nds, the most sa- liellt conceming financial aid. L()an packages and financial pa- perwork are a common thorn in the sideofbothpre-freshmen and cur- rent Union students. The forms are cumbersome and take time to mail. The financia1 aid office is al~ wa)'swilling to help with the flood of questions, but the demand for all Icinds of forms can be over- wh~lm:ing. For this reason, Union has taken steps to make the pro- cess easier. The Financial Aid Of- fice· has embraced the age of tech- nology by creating a webpage. Fi- nancial aid is no longer a painful process, but a virtual one that can be \isited at any time and provided instant results. The student loan representative, and the city of Schenectady co- Dianne c;::amp, d(.}-veloped the site sponsor events, such as booking with tbehelpofUmion Webmaster acts in Proctor's Theater. Profes- Saul Morse. The .site consists of sor Miller pointed out that such general informaticm on the fin an- · an event did take place a few years cial aid process. Ita.lso includes all . ago, where an African dance troop the necessary forms that can be performed. He pointed out that downlo.aded tllrotJgh any .com- student turnout for the event was puter.. These vjrtl!al.forms can be very low. obtained with a click of the mouse, One student:-audience member not through a hike across campus made a slightly appalling and gen- pr with a steady eye on your mail- eraUy directed comment towards box. Now, hotll prospective stu- • the student body, by stating, dents and cmreritstudents can .take \Union is a school of Alcoholics.\ more control oftlteir college ex.pe- She used this as a reason why stu- rience. dents do not take advantage of \I get tons Qf caolls for forms,\ what Schenectady has. to offer Camp stated. With the addition of them. Feeling unfairly attacked, thenewweb page:, Union is able to many other students sitting in the free up th.e fiaancial aid office. audience expressed displeasure at Cathpthinksthesite\should make hearing this remark. life a J()t easier. \1'he financial aid Many students complain about website can be accessed conve- · the amount of crime surrounding niently through tl-te Union College • Union's campus, and the crime web page. To tind the site, visit · that has unfortunately taken place http:/www.union. edu/ Alumni/Ser- . within the gates of the college. vices/StudentL<~ans/. Mike Parisi addressed the issue of security, mentioning that stu- dents feel more secure on campus due to the recent buildup of secu- rity. He also made an interesting suggestion about Freshman Ori- entation. lnsteadofsimply an ori- entation to campus life at Union, he suggested that new Union stu- dents be oriented to not only Union, hut to Schenectady as well. Maybe Union students are fearful of walking off-campus because of the frequent sirens they hear dur~ ing the night, or because of the muggings that have most recently taken plac.e just off-campus. Carl Strock shed light to this issue by dents want more social ~ptions ... \ comparing Union tQ such .schools Perhaps the Greek system has iso- as the University of Pennsylva- lated students on campus, rather nia, whichsitsin theheartofPhila- . than expanding to the army of so- delphia. cial options off-campus such as Gretchel Tyson, while wishing Gepetto's, Rupsy's and sometimes to focus on the positive aspects the Van Dyke. of Schenectady, mentioned that At the same token many students even though she and her family come to Union because they like the live in Clifton Park, they often feeling ofpeople being on campus come down to Schenectady to and taking part in events on cam- walk by the Mohawk River and pus. If given the choice between The 'Town Gown' panel members discuss .issues COl\lce~rnlmZ present relationship between Schenectady and Union. Stockade area. Lallier asked Joe Allen what his plans were for making Schenectady more of a \college town.\ Allen introduced his plan to establish a \Gillian's\ in Schenectady. \Gillian's\ is a multi- entertaining facility containing poo\ tables, a dance floor, and a bar. With the addition of certain entertainment establishments in Schenectady .such as \Gill ian's,\ Allen hopes to lure more students into the city. He also mentioned improvements being made to Cen- tral Park, where a stage is being built for outdoor concerts. There was also mention of installing a movie theater complex in Schenectady which would most definitely draw students into tile city. In the bigger picture, Allen would like to make Schenectady a place where students from Union ·would want to live after they graduate. With an increase in new businesses in Schenectady, per- haps new and better jobs would emerge encouraging students to stay here. Another shift in the conversa- tion opened the topic of why Union students do not take ad- vantage of places like Jay Street, which contains a cafe, deli, and book shops. Strock then asked the question, \Do college students go to book- stores?\ This question caused many of the students present in the audience to react in disagree- ment, turning to their neighbors in discussion. Dean Alford made a curious point, asking why businesses have not sprouted up around the periphery of Union'.s campus, seeing as it historically happens on other college campuses. There seemed to be no real an- swer to this question. The topic of fraternities mo- nopolizing the social scene on campus arose, and Dean Alford expressed his opinion that\ ... stu- going to a concert at Achilles Rink or one in Praetor's Theater in Schenectady, it is likely rn ore stu- dents would chose to attend the concert on Union's campus, mainly due to the familiarity Unicm offers them. One of the main issues tllat arose duringthe t\me when audiellcemem- bers were gjyen the opportunity to speak was that of the relatjonship between students living off-cam- pus on suciJ streets as U11iversity, Gillespie, Park and Wendall and their relationship with the permanent tresi- d.en'ts of those streets. Carolyn Myers, the president of the \Union Triangle,\ whicn is what the residents call these fo11r streets, talked about the behavior students who live on these streets need to follow in order to be \good neigh- bors.\ She mentioned how residents of these four streets enjoy the stU- dents living there for the most part, but she did voice complai11ts about the noise factor especially with par- ties, the drinking and the garbage that collects on the streets. Myers is currently working with Tyson to develop stronger ties be- tween the residents of the \Union Triangle\ and the students living there. The \Union Triangle\ has monthly meetings she wislled stu- dents living in this area would at- tend, ill order to improve relations. Although Union students living in tile triangle have been invited to :attend these meetings, Myers ex- presseddisappointment that no stu- dents have ever attended. Ed Lallier reflected on tllis series as being \very promising\ for Union. He described one of his objectives for organizing these three events (past, present and fu- ture) as wanting to stimulate con- versation \on both sides.\ It seems as though this objective has been achieved. Wh:at is most important is that Unio11 students and Schenectady residents keep their lines of communication and minds open.

. Pakec¥4!•. May~, :1999 1 • C!rlll'uhl':tm~it~fs'' U-CARE Carnival Fun· for Both Schenectady ChildreR and Union Student by Kate Schmidt Staff Writer The Hockey Rink buzzed with ac- tivity this past Saturday aftemoon as Union students put on the second annual U-Care · Day. Grl·ek organizations and theme houses con- gregated to bring Scheneccady children on campus for this all day car- nival. U-Care Day, started by Emily Simon and Maria Vianna last year, originally tions were requested at the door ness ().ur positive .interaction,\ upon arrivaL says Simon. ''lreallylikedthellamaaUhe:z:oo, U-C.are Day not onl:y strength~ but my favorite part about the fair ened bonds between the campus was getting to thro:w a pie in and the community, b:ut between someone' s face,\ said one the organizations <Jn campus as Satan Considered by.Gim~lCampanella StaffWriter alld iJulieWhittekin Co12trf.buting Writer The N<Jtl Memorial was filled with members ·Of both the Union and Schenectady communities last Thursday evening for a lecture on the de:vil. For the first time in a while, ch;airs covered the first floor of the Nott and every seat was taken. Perhaps. the nature of the speech attracted many of its listen- ers. At 7:30PM, Professor, author and sch<Jlar Elaine Pagels dis- . cussed this top ie in a lecture titled, \Origins .e>fSatan.\ Tile main focus of Pagels speech ment. In the New Testament, the Romans, wh,o are historically also given responsibility for the death of Jesus, are never represented as Satan the way the Jewish people are. Pagels thinks that the practice ofdemoni:zing one's enemie:s most likely began with this Biblical demonization ofJesus' opp()rients. In the book of Matthew, a very positive image ofthe Rom,ans is given. Historians have suggested that the Bibliocaldemonizatiomofthe Jews and alliance with the Rl>mans was more a result of political events of the time than actual religio11s belief. According to Pagels, the gospel accounts ooze polittcs. came about because there was no philanthropy event at Union which brought aH of the campus organizations together. \I really wanted to put some-· · • was on tile difference between the . Christian concept ofSatan and the . Jewi:sil traditionofthe same figure. The speaker ended her lecture by making the point that S:atan is as ancient as humankind... Al- though the concepts of ewil and the demoniz:ation of one's ememies are experienced today, we c;tn find many oftheirorigins in the Bible. thing together that all or- ganizations could partake..___.....__ __ .......,..____....,..... __ ...__...._ __ _, __ -...., ____ __...........,. Jessica Z:llehlke/TC in,\ said Simon. \This de- Children from Schenectady enjoy games sponsered by UJ'Iion sire sparked the idea for fraternities and theme houses. U-Care day;. a youth car- nival for the Schenectady commt~­ nity .\ The carnival ran from 11 AM to around 3:30PM on Saturday, May 1, and provided a series of (lction packed activities for an estimated 500 children. \I think it's amazi11g that Union College students wake up so early on a Saturday morni!lg and are able to arrive in high spirits to help our community,\ sa:id Gamma Phi Beta President Erin A loan. Around fourteen campus orga- nizations arrived bright and early to bost the day's entertainme11t. Events included: b\wling ballo<Jn shaving, origami, hand painting, Frisbee decorating, face paintin~,. tie-dying, a petting zoo, a pie-t(}!SS, a ball toss for goldfish, a dunk taE1!(., a hockey shoot, the popular inflat- able \Mr. Bouncety Bounce.\ The afternoon was topped off with a free barbecue equipped with snoVJ cone and popcorn machines. All activities, food and prizes were free of charge to the whde community. Canned good dona- Schenectady youth. The wide range of events allowed an chil- dren ages two and l!P to enjoy themselves. \U-Care Day was a great oppor- tunity to invite a wide range of Schenectady youth to be a part of our community,\ said HayleyCoo- per. \It was obvious that the kids were having a good time, and the students seemed to be enjoying themselves as well.\ Besides providing a fun day of activities for Schenectady youth, U-Care Day enabled the campus to strengthen bonds between the students and the outside commu- nity. Rarely does Schenectady get the opportunity to witness Union's worthwhile services. U- Care Day isa great chance to show the community what our campus has to offer. \A lot of the time, Union is looked at as a prestigious, intellectually superior environ- ment. Students are given the chance to go off campus and share something, but the community is rarely allowed to come in and wit- well .. lt's a good vtay for the Union communityt() get to know each other better while ·providing for Schenectady; H is alsobenefi- cial !lecause it place&. Greeks in a positive light,\ said Simon. This year's event W<!S extremely successfuL Distribution offlyers to lo.cal schools and advertise- mentsin Schenectadynewspapers helped spread the vt()rd to many children. A prosperous a1'ternoorn was made possible through the gener- ous donations from K-Mart, Price Chopper, the Fina11ce Committee . and various Greek and theme houses. \After this year's successful turnout, we can only hope to im- prove and add to U·Care Day for next year,\ said U-Care C()OTdina- tor, len Brate. Ove~c~ll, tile after- nooll was a positive reflection of the Union College community. Witll added interestatld planning, hopefully students will pr.oduce additional comrnu11ity ()riented eve11ts in the future. The Holy B.i[}le was referred to ·. many times throughout the lecture. Pagelsemphasized the fact that Satan is m intimate, not a distant, enemy. lhismakesthedevilamore danger()llS opponent. However, . the stories of Jesus would not be complete without the presence of an evil being. Satan plays an im- portant role in the stor,ies of Christ, offering a .sharp con,- trast. The le~ture followed the . progressi<Jn ofdescriptions of Satan f()urtd in the stories witllin tbeOid and New Testa- me!lts. Satan began as an an- . gel and tflen regressed to antagonist of God. Pagels addressed the differ- ent st()ries describing the ori- gi.n of S~tan. Even thm1gh there cue dis(tepancies, all theories Cjgree that Satan was an i11timate relation before he was an (lnemy. P'agels then <:ontinued to de-. scrtbe tile.changing images Pagels has published three books and graduated from t'Wo Ivy League Universities. A question and answer period followed the successful event. · the de111on and evil through- out tlte Jlible. The ultimate evil in tlhe Bible is the crucifixion of Jesu~. Thi~ provides a hu- man ~s~t~n' oftbe Old Testa- ment. TheJ.ews are the demon- izedenemies in the Old Testa- Sloan Miiller/lC Elaine Pagels discusses the rlilots of Satan in Christianity and Jud'.aism. Professor's Tenure Denial Up,sets Students Professor Newman was unable to comment on the current situatiOtn stating, \Everyone in the ad h()C committee is bound by the confi· dence of the procedure.\ He <lid express his overall attitude towards the tenure reviewprocess at Unron. \I am comfortable with the tenure procedure. Unio11 has a better sys- tem with a wider selection of the campus community involved in the decision making.\ He did state that, \In general, every system bas flaws.\ If a candidate gets denied tel1- ure, (s)he enters the Reconsidera- tion or Appeal phase. During 1l1is time, the professor has 15 day:s to decide if(s)he wa:nts the case .to'be reconsidered by the FRB cr handled by a different group; tbe Appeals Committee. For eithero11e, a statement mustbe written. Miller told Concordiensis that he was tm- sure what to write in his appeal be- cause everything is so secretive. \I can't even get aclvice from the 2d hoc committee because they d<Jn't know what happened. It was thought to be an obvious case.\ The students who spoke at the rally feel. that the decision reached involved some kind of conspiracy bound by the protection of confi• dentiality. Tenure reviews must exceed a miniml:lm of two days and, for the most part take around two weeks. Ironically, Miller's case was pre- sented on March 1, but ilie vote on his tenurability was not until April 20. This suggests tllat the administration had a hard time reaching a decision about Miller's fate at Union. Deart Cool addressed this issue, stating that the FRB \was not un- aware of the students' concern .•. [The strong student re- Iatie>ns Miller had with some indi- viduals made this case] such ahard decision. [For this reason,] the FRB took more time.\ Miller was the head .of the Africana Studies at Union, a pro- gram he is responsible for bring- ... continued from page 1 ing to the co liege. SeniorSusanna Ryan feels thatthis d~cision is \an attack on the Afric~naStudies pro- gram.\ She continlled by point- ing out that it is the only subject at Union in which a, ~tudent is not allowed to major. Even though tit ere is no con- crete evidence, speculation leads in tlt:e direction ofUhion 'sattempt to silence a contrCJ\ersial voice. Up()n his being hired as a Union professor, Miller specifically told the deans that the A.Jricana Stud- ies program wouldbe unlike any- thillg they previ().usly taught. \Th'e knowledge willchallenge the education,\ he said~ \But it is the knowledge that is controversial, not tllose who tecuh it.\ The Africana S1tldies program will surely take a!> low without the insi;ght of Miller, He is the only · professor at Uni()n trained to teach this subject. Miller\is proud oftbe program at Union.'' It .is ad- mired by many otlt-er institutions bec:ause of its integration with courses. in music, literature, soci- olo·gy, llisto~ and anthropology. The nut11ber of African Studies terrns.a.~road,such as Kenya, Bra- zil and Barbad;()s, add glimmer to Union's reputation. \Given such a smalla:1t1ountof supplies, we have create<! a very successful pro- gram,\\Miller commented. With- out him, and possibly without the survival of the Africana Studies progracm, .smnething will ~e lost fr()m the school. In r~sponse to th.is concern, Dean Cooti provided, \The tenure· decisicm is 110 reflection of the college's feelings towards the pro- gram; it's an individual, personal decisioll.\ If Miller chooses, his contra.:t will be renewed for one ye:ar to(!nable his job-search, At the sante tiime, the college will be .. gin a 5earch f()r a new professor who coulid fill the role as an Africa:11a Studies expert. Professor Millet was not at the rally ()11 Fdday because he thought it wottld :be unprofessional be- . cause of his status in the Reco!l- sideration phase. However, his par· ents, who were visiting for Miller•s birthday, still wanted to attend the event. An important point addressed among students at the milly was that verba! testimony IJfas not enough. Ramasatni enc()urag~d anyone concerned to writle letters or make phone calls h1 Miller's honor. A letter writing campaagn to()k place throughout the week in the Campus Center. Alumnus Dioi1 Morgan '94 re,. turned to the campus \eli<tremely disturbed about Union.\ She com- mented, \We are entering; the year 2000 and Union is goirng back- wards; not forwards. I am ashamed that this college is not putting a value on .an important pant of[ Af- rican] culture. [Miller] is an asset to this college.;, Morg11n ended with the inspirational words; \'i ou need to make a differeliC(l, Let yo.ur voices be heard!\ r I SeJ . Wh kickbc fitnes~ health extra·< Colle! justa l-la1 easily and hi accon workc roo tee Ac any c veals thro'\1 ous tJ famil ers a1 Butt boxi1 Roc~ have aren of de c~ worn afigl to b11 fidel niqu parti be it s~ rece dent mur kick Tl botl nesl fen! wor B afu deti helJ inec twe Saf the C011 def lev' fen l ir kar set J are Ke cal Sc' ful n tr~ p<l el1 ag he lei J(] A; UJ oJ A S2 H B b fl

Defend Yourself Profess.ors Discuss Ills of Fraternities claim tlnt fraternities control many de~il'e:d resources on campus, in- CludJr~g the preferred housing and so<;icll life. This power giyes them the Cllpabi~ity to be biased and dis- crininllte. This discriminatory be- ha:vi()1 h:as lead to an admissions pa..1ter~rfelt acrossthe country within stnall.c;olleges who maintain a Greek sy:st<:m. Upon leaving highschool, competes with fraternity parties. and still students do not attend them. Deb Leif' 99 brought up the issue of gender inequality among pr9fessors as well as students. In response to this statement, Profes- sor Gimelchadded, \You all have a responsibility to address these is- sues. If there is going to be justice achieved, let's make sure that it is Self-defense Class Offered Last Saturday by Jessica Zuelllke News Editor by Sarah Rosen Contributing Writer What is the appeal of kickb()xing? This craze in cardio fitness has made its w~y from the health clubs of Manhattan to the extra .curricu tar lineup ofthe Union College intramural program. Is it just a fad? Have American women been so easily wooed by Carmen Electra and her weight toss guarantee that accompanies Billy Blank's Tae Bo workout? Or could the appeal be rooted .a little deeper? A closer look at the contents of any cardio kickboxing class re- veals a myriad of punches and throws analogous to the treacher- ous training regime that would be familiar to heavyweight contend- ers and boxing champions alike. But the inspiration that historical boxing victories, ranging from Rocky Balboa to Buster Douglas, have offered to raising champions are meaningless to this new breed of defenders. Cardio kickboxing has offered women the opportunity to train like a fighter. Such training is designed to build p])ysicalstrength and con- fidence while providing tech- niques wllich may someday help participants defend themselves, be it in the ring or on the street. Safe Space was intrigued by the recent a~raction that many stu- dents in tl1e Union College com- munity have had towards kickboxing. The benefits that kickboxing has both as a means of physical fit- ness and as a means of self-de• - J fense are revolutionary to the world of aerobics. By providing participants with a fundamental knowledge of self- defense techniques, kickboxing is helping to diminish the defensive inequalities that often ~xist be- tween an assailant and a victim. Safe Space, in an attempt to fur- ther the Union College community's knowle~ge of self defense beyond a fundamental level, hosted a three-hour self-de- fense W()rkshop on Saturday May 1 instructed by the two masters of karate from the J .K. Kenpo Karate school. Jeffrey Blay and Glenn Kinnie are the co-coordinators ofthe J.K. Kenpo Karate school, which -is.l<J- cated at 1053 King's road in Schenectady. The scho()] offers a full schedule of kickboxing and The Beat classes, which has at- tracted many Uniort College stu- Robin Roberts porter or as a girlfriend,\ said Rob- erts. She never dated an athlete again~ yet she told every one of her close relationships with ath- letes, noting especially Michael Jordan, Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi. She then commented h()W upset she was about the breakup of Brooke Shields and Agassi. After speaking of her friends, she said, '~Football players are great. Hockey players are wonderfuL Basketba11 players are the best, but baseball players are the worst.\ Her least favorite athlete, much to dents whose position .in the school has escalated to the level of in- structor. Saturday's workshop featur~d defensive techniques, which a vic .. tim of as~ault is able to use against an assailant. Kinnie and Blay con~ . centrated on methods .of defense · most effective for victims with a strength disadvantage to their as- sailant.. Blay accentuatedthe importance of fully debilitating an assailant in · order to assure escape. Debilita- tion can be 11,chieved through the triggering of certain pressure points on the assailant's body. What was anticipated to be a heated debate over the validity and decency .of the fraternal sys- tem at Union turned ou:t to be a calm evening of questil)ns with- out many answers. However, the event was not with- out some interesting surprises. AEPi hosted another lec- ture in their series, . \Professors on the Hot Seat.\ This time, Professors Andrew Pheffer and Sharon Gimelch addressed the \lFls of Fraterni;- Blay encouraged participants to · · ties.\ attend future workshops on self- The event took defense in order to register the .. place at 7:00 PM in methods taught into \'muscle Old Chapel and was memory.\ Blay playfully warned attert.ded by a variety workshop·participants about prac- of people. Many in- tieing their new moves on friends . dependents and and family. theme. house stu- Glenn Kinnie played the role as dents came to listen, the resident assailant upon whom al'ong with the .mem- workshop particjpants were en- bers <!f the U2K. couraged topracticetheirnewtech- These student le~,.. Chip Cra Profe$OI's Gimelch and Pheffer sit on the 'Hot Seat' discussing their niques. With Ule aid of minor pro- • ers were invited to. attend in the tection and WWF quality atting, place. of Dean Alford, who could Kinnie provided an excellent simu- not make the event. lation·of an assault. Since the purpose of the debate Kinnie and Blay worked inti- ' was to attack the fraternal sys- mately with the worksh<Jp partici- tern, many Greek me11 ready to pants by responding to situations . stand up for the institutions in that they had found to be threat- which they live were expected to ening. attend. On the contrary, the host- The three types of assaults that ing brothers of AEPi represented participants highlighted were every fraternity on campus. those in which the assailant had Due to unfortunate conflicting the victim pinned againstthe wall, schedules, fi·ee food arud IJve mu- chokedfiom behind andpinned on sic were offered concurrently in their back. Once the technique was Jackson's Gardens. While the taught, Kinnie and Blay would ad- Greek system was under attack, dress perspnal concerns that the most of its members were celebrat- participants had about a certain ing Greek Week by tossing kegs technique, all the time assuring near the campus center. their pupils that it was .imperative Each professor had ten minutes to severely inJure their assailant. to give an arranged statement that The workshop concluded with . was followed by forty minutes of an encouraging speecll that bol- . open questions from the audi- stered the effectiveness of self- . ence. AEPi brother Dan Pesikoff defense techniques and.th.e impor- mediated the discussion, direct- tance that they play on a college ing the questions from skeptical campus. students. Despite the excellent efforts of Professor Pheffer began the Campus Security and such provi- debate, arguing that \institutions sions as the escort servic:e, the of this sort are based on prin- Union College campus does have ciples of exclusion •.. that als() the potential to be dangerous. erect barriers.\ The \'portholes\ Blay and Kinnie illustrated some · in which one can enter the frater- gruesome realities which could nity involve testing the extreme have been avoided had the victim measures one wouLd take in or- been •educated in self-defense. der to maintain the solidarity of Safe Space will be offering fu- the group. He mentioned that his· ture workshops in self-defense that torically, fraternities have ex- will be open to the entire Union cludedmembersacro:sssocioeco- College community. We encourage everyoile to par- . ticipate. nomic and racial C:()nditions, as well as gender lines. Professor Pheffer also made the negative feelings towards fraternities. the ~umber of accepted women are 1n~re likely to refuse Union on the g:r()U1lds of the fraternal system. Pr():fessor Gimelch began her ~t;,pe~dh by identifying three main ~oal5l()fthe faculty and the school itself: creating a higher intellectual, re:.p~ctflll and equitable environ- rnent. \«ril.e goal oftbe college is to nur- trure intellectual growth. Greek ho..use:s counteract that goa\ because tlley fo:ster exclusivity and confor- mity.\ According to Professor Gimelch, ·fil.te:rnities are not respectful in their a.ttitt~des towards women. Greek b()>use:s are the breeding ground for o~e:ctification <Jfwomen, sexual ha- ra5s.tnent and assault. She also Jl()inted out that fraternities are not eCJU itable. ney represent around 30% of the male population on campus,yetthey enjcoy priv·ileges such as housing bcatic>n and unfair advantages run- nin~ for political positions that are de~ied to others members ofthe stu- der~t body. :Neither professor mentioned any- tlling about their desire to abolish tbe fraternities on Union, but instead the ir request for a reformation to the cllrrellt system. At this time, the floor was open to ,CJl!es.ii()ns from the students. Junior Brim Roche gave the first query. As .a. prqgram assistant for the student 11.ff~lirs c<Jrnmittee, he expressed con- .c;etrn about the social life without a Greek system. He pointed out that :!'II) sch()ol-sponsored event ever pure justice.\ Things stayed unusually calm until Professor Benack ofthePsy- chology Department stood up and made the statement that the stu- dents were \beingtoo polite. This is the hot seat,\ she added. Her comment was followed by a tension-releasing applause from the audience. The debates that followed in- cluded the benefits ~f coed frater- nities. WouJd Greek members be able to profit over alumni networks if their Nationals did not recognize them? Professor Scullion pointed out that coed living might not be in the best interests of the brothers and sisters. One female stated that she was able to get her job because of the network of her sorority. Professor Pheffer replied, \That's the kind of privileges that I abhor.\ The event ended peacefully, de- spite the excitement in the roorn. Although nothing was resolved, the talk gave both sides the ()p- portunity to share their concems. Sophomore Scott Dicks summed up the evening saying, \This isn't away to resolve the issue between faculty and students but to at ]east have an understanding and a path to the future in which faculty, ad- ministration and students can co- exist.\ Any professor interested in sit- ting in the Hot Seat should con- tact any member of the AEPi fra- ternity. peaks bout Career as Sports Fana1ie and Sportscaster .... continuedfrompage 1 the dismay of head soccer coach Brian Speck, and other Boston fans, is Larry Bird. Tiley appar- ently never got along. She also commented on the sala- ries of professional athletes. \I have a problem with a beer belly pitcher who throws every four nights making millions of dollars, but Michael Jordan deserves ev- ery dime he got. Estimates are he generated a billion dollars 'Of sales.\ She also said that tile owners could always say no to paying players the salaries; she does not fault the athletes for the escalated salaries, \Would you say no?\ asked Roberts. Y e1 :she does not think the players deserve a per- centage of the owner's revenues, \I can't go to ESPN and demand a percent of the profits. The play- ers are wrong there. It is the own- ers making the chal}ces.\ Roberts also commented on title IX. \A lot of women's col- lege educationsarebeing paid for because of title IX.;~ She is a strong believer of title IX and says it is amazing to see the changes, \/Lsible today with Chamique floldsclaw being selected as the ntJoober one pick in Tuesday's -w'li!JA draft. llol:lerts is entertaining switching jclts to ~·oood Morning America\ or \':!0./20\\ \When I started, I -w~spassionate about sports with an :ittterestinjournalism. Now lhavea ')las.sion about journalism with an il'lterest in sports. Sh.e also hinted John Elway may cilntinue his football career in broad- c~;tmg, taking Dan Dierdorf spot on \lvlooday Night Football.\ She did not want to be the type of speaker whose audience waited forherto say \An{i so in closing,\ but she wasn't. Instead, the stu- dents loved the speech, some say- ing it was the best they had seen at Union. Her powerful speaking abilities and her capacity for articu- lation maintained the audience's in- terest. She spoke tbe truth andre- minded everyone \never to lose sight of the big picture.\ As ESPN's Stuart Scott would say, Robin Roberts \is as cool as the other side of the pillow.\

Union Helps Revitilize a Tired City MayorAl Jurczy11ski and President Roger Hull Discuss the Future ofScltenectady by Gina Campanella Staff Writer We are all well aware oftlle Union College relationshi}l with Schenectady today, but what does the future hold? Wells House pre- sented their third lecture in a seu ries of three about the Schenectady relatioi,ship with Union College. The first lecture concentrated on the relationship of yesterday, the second discussed the relationship Qftoday and on Monday, May 3, tne relationship of tomorrow was predicted. The speakers invited were Union College President RogerHuU and Schenectady MayorAl Jurczynski. The event began promptly at 7 PM and the audience waseq:ually com- prised of Schenectady ·residents and Union College students. The mayor spoke first abottt many of the situations currently facing Schenectady. Mayor Jurczynski has spent sixteen years in elected Qftice in Schenectady, serving twelve yeafs on city coun- cil and four years as mayor. He believes that a complete re- juvenation of Schenectady will take twenty W twenty-five years to achieve. Although, he did agree with President Hull that serious changes and significant improve- ments are expectedv.;jthinthe next four to five years. The mayor began by comparing Union College to Vatican City in Rome, Italy. He said that Union is a city within a city, and there was no real interaction between the two until Roger Hull became Union's president. Mayor Jurczynski also admitted that until coming to Union he had never heard of the tenn \doid.\ This derogatQry term for a Schenectady resident is as com- monly heard on Union's campus as the word \hello.\ In a moment of reflection on Schenectady's past, he said, \When G.E. decided to downsize and spread their work a.round tlle world, Schenectady wasn't ready for that...\ Schenectady lawmakershave fi,. nally begun to make strides in get- ting G .E. to revitalize their 620-acre plot ofland. The land is currentLy so contarninated that it is, easier for G.E. to just let it sit than to selL With the rejuvenatipnofthis.land, other businesses and companies could potentially buy the land, which would lead to morejobs. In addition, the mayor t.:tlked about the Metrop lex project that concentrates mostly on th~ rejl;l- venation of the downtown Schenectady business .and en· tertainment clis- trict Concentrating. more closely on · Schenectady reJa, tions with Union . College, Mayor Jurczynski spoke about what he likes to call \Dr. Roger's neigh- borhood.\ With this expr~ssion he is, .of course, re- ferring to the Seward renova- 2000 project was cofounded by President Hull and a collaborator. President Hull described the mo· ti ve behind the mayor's support in this manner, \If it succeeds, [the mayor] ~ets all the credit; if it fails he has tw() people to blame.\ Then the president went back to his first experiences at Union Col- lege.. Before he came to Schenectady, he served at Univer- sity of Wisconsin, whichwas in an equallydepressed area. President Hun broughtmanyofhis ideas that had previously worked in Wiscon· could actually work. \The Seward proJect is only the begirming,\ ac- cording to President HulL He also suggested a consolida- tion of public transportation. He referred to the current Schenectady train station as an \eyesore that should be blown up and replaced:\ With this consolidation oftrans~ portation it is hoped thatthe aver- age train ride to New York City will be reduced from 1lhree and a half hours to a mere two hour ride. This, in tum, will encourage people who tion project. He described this as the \most exciting thing to Shannon ona Mayor AlJurcynski and President Roger Hull inform the Union happen to Schenectady in fifty years\ because the college is so involved and because it is making definite strides to rid the area of absentee landlords. The mayor also expressed his appreciation for all of the \little things\ that Union College stu- dents contribute to the community. For example, the bridge painting and planting projects that we all remember so well from Freshman Orientation. The mayor then handed the microphone over to the Union College side. President Hull began by clarify- ing a project that the mayor men- tioned in brief. The Schenectady comrnzmity about the future of Schenectady. sin to the Union/Schenectady .r table. He did emphasize his opti- mism for·the project; yet he also recognized that the college was not prepared for the political mess that would be involved. Presi.Cent Hull declared that the firstitern on llis agenda is a change in attitude. He believes that the citizens of Schenectady need to stop concentrating on their losses of the past and start concentrating on their opportunities for the fu- ture. In addition, President Hull stated that the Union/Schenectady rela- tionship would make it possible for many new rejuvenation plans that work downstate to look in the Schenectady area when consider- ing a place to live. In many areas of the nation, people commute two or more hours to get to their jobs on a daily basis. President Hull is very confident that this idea is not only possible, but also realistic. He then went on to discuss the rejuvenation of the downtown Schenectady area. There is a call not only for more jobs, but aiso for more movie theaters, restaurants and entertainment areas. This is because you cannot just create a place where people want to work; you must also create a place where peo;ple want to live. President HuH once again empha- sized that people who do not have faith in this cha11ge should give up that idea. Sixty percent of students who choose not to ~ttend Union Col- l~ge cite Schen,ectady as their pri- mary reason. By helping S.cbenectady, Union College is helping itself: President Hull then addressed the relocation of the families ti:Jat currently live on Seward. Union College has made arrangements to cover all moving expense.sand the first two months rent in th.e .new location for all those who are being forced to move by the prO-ject. In addition, all families who own the homes that :tlley live in this area wlll be entitledto twotuiti()n free Union College ~da¢ation' s for their children, prov-ided their children meet the admissions requirements. This plan was implemented to en- courage more a.bsentee landlords to selL President Hllll has been in con· tact with many community officials to assure that the reloca~ion pro- cess is being hatidledas sensitively as possible. He told the audience th1;1t just recently~· Union College received a lettev.from a woman who said that there location allowed her to find better housing at half the co·st. A question a:nd answer period followed the introductory speeches. 011e student asked for an example ofa signal of change. President Hull :responded by say- ing that a sure signal of change would be that Union College stu .. dents actually wanted to go into downtown Schenectady. Mayor Jurc:zynski expressed that he simply wished to bring Schenectady back to its pre-G.E. layoff glory. Directly following the question and answer period was a reception that was ope11 to everyone. The gatheringwasheld in Wells House and conclud6'd the three-part, Town and GolVn series. Third Annual Battle of the Bands Has Haw-aiian .. -Flare . . . . by Lee Stevens StaffWriter Last Friday, in the-back of Reamer Campus Center,. the Battle of tbe Bands )}tovided a night of music and fun among the flowering trees of JacksQn' s Gardens. This annual event gives Union students and faculty a chance to show off their talent with the hopes of winning theprizeoffame. The four bands duked it out for first place within the presence of a spectacular Hawaiian Luau. The Program Assistants sp()nsored the decorations a11d food while the Concert Committee at Union orga- nized the music. \They were actu· ally suj>posed to be tv/Q different events, but we thought they would compliment each other,\ Com- mented Program assistant Erin A loan. The Concert Committee acted as judges for the event. The winner of the event gets the <>pportunity to perform as •one of the feature bands on the weekend of Springfest. The second-place band gets to show off their stuff during Sprir1gfest on the evening of the Great Lobster Bake. This year the first place winner was an Irish band Drumstella. Their Celtic sounds got the whole crowd dancing. Second place went to Bova Phat. This music was on the heavy metal side, but played many cover songs, including Sir Mix A Lot. One Uni()n student expressed regret towards anyone who was unable tQ attend the event. \lt was awesome, baby, yeah, l went#@$! Nuts!\ You couldn't help but get swept-away in the Union magic. The party started at 5:00PM and didn't end until8:00 PM. The Pro- gram Assistants added Hawaiian flare to the event. The Luau theme consisted of a courtyard decorated with blow-up palm trees and free leis to all in attendance. Free food followed this tropical motif. A Hawaiian banquet was supplied by Dining Services to cabn the hunger of the harcl rockin' students who could barely control themselves at this rave. Sweet and sour stir-fry was·served on a bed of white rice along with sweet Ha- waiiatt meatballs. Dessert con- sisted of Pineapple Upside-down cake and an enormous bowl of tropical fruit filled with mangos, melons, strawberries and kiwis. Sopllomore Tony Fratangelo had tit is to say about the event: \That silly ~ittle concert was the best time I've had since I nearly drown myself in hot tub out in front of AEPi winter term.\ One r•opular moment in the sea of good times that took place at thisplt:enomenal concert was when Union student Devon Wimberly kicked it freestyle rapping. He addressed his talented lyrics to a huge crowd of adoring fans. The concert was an experience of a lifetime. Music connoisseur, Alex Hunt stated, \I saw Bon Jovi and the Backsireet Boys last summer and neitber of those concerts could hold a candle to the Battle of the rt-tsy Drumsteila, the first place winner of the Batt(.e of the Bands plays their Irish music With ze:ai. Bands. Sure those Backstreet Boys can shake some tail but they're definitely missing some of the spice that this concert had to offer.\ There will be a slight change in the schedule for Springfest con- cerning the bands. Drumstella will perform at the Lobster Bake be· cause they cannot play during the day. \The event is always a big hit every year,\ Aloan commented. Three years under its belt, the tra· dition shou:ld be a success for years to cott11e ! Ca. Fo Unio diffe The I multi Lake Tc this c the~ thel1 topi< In Env Prof; Dep ano sinc1 Lak1 oftl tim€ tech T BLI wor ogy tal~ F den bee star ( bri€ ho' yea res ] tio to se1 ch W< m hu ar1 th: it) h~ vi sc in fe c A rv H f< 1

:- e it i. 1- lf . (lJ:ontarbiel1tiiS ~ M~y 6, 1 ~99 • Page_ 7 Ballston. L.· ake and the Next Generation of Education ' ' . ' by Sbaun Montallll Staff Writer For over two hundred years, Union has been at the forefront of different techniques in edU:cation. The latest buzzword in education: multidisciplinary study on Ballston Lake. To some students and faculty, this comes as no surprise. But for the ht~ndred people who attended the lecture last Thursday ni~;ht. the topic was new and interestiOg. lnthefinal talk oftheLaks and Enviro11mental Change Series, Profess()rPaulGremillion o:ftheCE Department masterfully pr<:sented an overview of all the wo11k. done since the beginning of the Ballston Lake l11itiative, drawing ()ill many of the previous talks. At tile same time, he revealed Uni()n \s latest techniqlleto learning andresearch. The Rallston Lake Initiative, or BLI,. is a combination of study and work between Geology, CE,.Bioi- ogy, Chemistry, and Envinmmen- tal Stu-dies. For ()\fer a year, faculty and stu- dents fiom all five discipli11es have been Vlorking together to 1.1nder- stan<t Eallston Lake. Gremillion began by providing a brief history of the lake, s!Iowing how it has been \lSed over the years l:Jy Indians, tourists, :and now residents. \This places c:iifferent stresses on the lake,\ he explained. Gremillion discussed how he per- to map out the bottom contours of Gremillion then moved into a dis- S()n~lly has used the lake in the the lake. cussion oflimnology,the studyof cl~sses he teaches. He also men- Mentioning Dr. Patricia lakes, e:x;plainingeverything.in ba- tio~e<l many of the students who Manley's discovery of Benedict sic terms to help the audience un- have done senior theses and re- Arnolds _J()st gunboat, Gremillion derstand the lake. seaa:eoh involving Ballston Lake. commented that there are probably Colorful graphs showing tern• F'inal'ly he mentioned how the many interesting cultural artifacts peratureandcxygenconcentration pr.()ject has even gotten Burnt waitingt()bediscovered, which is at different depths during different !:iil)s...;Ballston Lake High School partoftbe fun with this research. times of l 997 clearly There are also many showed the .seasonal strati- cliffs and other geologic ficationofthe lake. \Usino side scan formations on the noor This classifies Ballston·: ~ that are waiting to be ex- Lake as a meromictic lake, .SOnar mannino, the J)lored. Theiroriginscould one ofonlya:handfulin the, '1'.1' ~- tell a lot about the lake's world. Paleolimnologists SttJiie technology USed llistory. prize these kinds of lakes Gremillion discussed because the sediments on .tojind the Titanic, 11le chemoclime and some the bottom are undisturbed. <Jf what they've learned \The sediment records ja.CU/ty memberS and about it. The amber color read like tree rings,\ ' <1fthe water beneath it is Gremillion explained; \and· Stl4tfentS have begun tO , probably due to a high there's a storehouse of in,.. concentration of iron. formation waiting to be ex- 111ap QUf the bottom \A percussion core ploited down there.\ ,.j\ h l k , , taken in February of199S Gremillionthendescri\,)ed . COfltours OJ t e a e.' : surprised us,\ Gremillion bow this W()rk was made explained, \becauseofall possible. A National Sci-.._ __ ...... _,__ ____________ _.· ·the well-preserved or- ence Foundation Equip- ,ganic matter, like pine mentGrantprovidedmoneyforthe in~olved. \The bigh school stu- needles and oak leaves, present.\ various hi-tech equipment needed; de]ts help us to collect and inter- Another interesting discovery an NSF GeosciencesRefonn Gran1 pret data,\ he said, explaining the has been the clear increase in lead provided money specifically be- interaction. and zinc levels in the last two or cause of the interdisciplinary work Even after only a year's worth three hllndred years. The esti- and research involved. With many of study, many fascinating discov- mated time ofthis has beenaround professors fromdifferentfieldsin- erieshave been made. Using side the start of the Industrial Revolu- volved, money was also provided sc;ulson!;lrmapping, the same tech- tion, bllt they are not sure of the by the. Union Faculty Research ll()'logy used to find the Titanic, dates-it may have started sooner Fund. fac:lllty and students have begun or later. ln recent years, these lev- ~Is have gone down. \We wantto sample other lakes and see if this trend is similar,\ Gremillion said. Finishing up, Gremillion talked about other areas of future activi- ties the various departments would like to work on. Ranging from GPS mapping of the lake bottom by civil engineer- ing to behavioral ecology of fish by hiology to the folklore cultural anthropology research by environ- mental ~tudies, there is plenty -of work to be done. •'Even though we'vecollecteda huge amount of data, we've just begun. The most important thing we want to do is continue to foster the student-community and inter- disciplinary interactions,,, Gremillion concluded. \At any time, students .from all the differ- ent disciplines involved in the BLI are on the lake, working together.\ The talk ended with many ques- tions from the audience, each pa- tiently answered by Gremillion, and finished with applause and follow- updiscussions at a reception in the Olin atrium. Gremillion hoped his talk pro- vided closure to the series, and it did, but at the same time, it also helped open the door to a whole new effort in education at Union. This talk ended the Lakes and Environmental Change series, but efforts to learn about the environ- ment should never stop. Robotics Club Wins $2000 European Traveller Gives Advice to V Watson Winner Alumnus Will Speak on May 11 by Professor Frank Wicks Contributing Writer R:o!Jots can serve mmy func- tions from automation of factories to entertainment. They can also serv~ as remotely controlled ma- chines that can travel, observe and work in environments tllat are hos- tile, 11nhealthy or dangerous for hmna11s. An-example is the higli.radiation areas in the nuclear po'r\er plants that produce 20% of out electric- ity. T~e American NucleeirSociety ha5 recognized the inc:reasingly vital importance ofrobvtsby spon- soring. a competition for engineer- ing students at their annt1al con- ference. The Union CoJiege Robotics Club, with members Palll;a Denema, Adam Angle, Derrick Rapp, Steve Mortifolio, David Nortllrup, Chris Harrington and Barry llaker and fa<;lllty advisor ProfessCJr Cherrice Traver, responded to the cllallenge. Tiley designed a rob()t named MacGeiger whose mission is to maneuver through various ob\ stacles and retrieve a canister con- taining potentially deadly radioac- · by Professor Teresa. Meade Contributing Writer tive material After considering · · -------------- various options, their final desig;n Z:ane Riester, UC '97, who won a was a tracked vehicle with a minia- . T!lomas J. Watson Fellowship to ture television camera, a graspi11g tr:avel through Europe, will return mechanism and with remote radio to Union College on May 11 to dis- control. · .Cl!ss his trip and encourage jun- Last week they traveled to Pitts- ~~ iorsto apply for this wonderful op- burgh. Engineers attending the ··. !)Ortunity. American Nuclear Society Confer- · 'The Watson Foundation paid ence examined MacGeiger and · · Riester $22,000 to travel through made sev~ral favorable comme11ts ·. France and Italy to complete his of the sort that is was a well-engi- •. project, \Renaissance and Baroque neered robot. Next came the com- Churches and Train Stations.\ petition which was comprised of two canister retrieving ru11s. : MacGeiger performed with perfec- • tion as it traveled over obstacles,. grasped the canister and returned . to the assigned location, beating;' teams from Carnegie Mellon ancl· California. The Robotics Club returned to Union College with their$2000 prize for an impressive first place finish in a national competition an~ with new ideas about how to make MacGeigtr an even better robe>t. sy !he Watson Foundation inau- gtlrated this fellowship in 1968 to give exceptional college graduates from 50 liberal arts colleges across the country the freedom to engage in a year of independent study and travel abroad. The Foundation provides Fel- hws an opp01tunity to focus on a 11roject of their own devising and t() do so independently, outside 1lle confines of an academic insti- \tlltion. The idea of the Fellowship is to test an individual's aspirations and abilities, and to give him or her . tile tools t() view American soci- ety in greater perspective. It seeks to make of US college graduates \Citizens of theW orld.\ Watson Fell-ows are selected · through a college-wide competi- tion in the Fall of their senior year. rae proposal is an 8-1 0 page es- say outlining tile project and stat- ing the particular qualifications of tile candidate. Derrick Rapp, Adam Angle, Barry Baker, Dave Northrup ond Paul£< Denema )lose with their Robot, MacGeiger A committee of Union College professors, currently chaired by Teresa Meade, History Depart- . rnent, select four nominees based on an interview and the project statement. The nom ineesare then sent ~fl to the national office in Providence, RI, which makes the finaldec:ision. Union's four nomi- nees fr<Jm the senior class were Brian Goldberg, Bernice Polanco, Kristopher Lovelett and Scott Steadlllan. Steadman won in the nationalcompetition for his project, \Seeking a Dialogue: Linking Past and Present through a Screenplay on Walter Benjamin.\ Other winners at schools similar to Uni<1n were for topics ranging from Fopular Art, Memory and Identity of the Mayan World (Gua- temala and Mexico), The Role of the Press in the Middle East (Egypt, Jordan, Syria, Israel), The Culture of Futbol (India, Israel, Cameroon, Brazil), Capturing Plum Blossoms in the Chinese Diaspora (Malaysia, Philippines, Australia), to The Biomedical and Traditional Cultures of Childbirth (Ecuador, Arger~tina, Chile, Bolivia and Bra- zil), a11dSpace, Place and Identity in the European Circus (UK, France, Denmark, and Switzerland). Wi11ning topics in past years have spanned the gamut from ob- serving spectators at baseball games in Japan, Nicaragua and Cuba, to studying African dance, and recording Icelandic sagas. The topics are whatever inter- ests the applicant and seem wor- thy to the Foundation. For a com- plete list of the 60 winners from four-year liberal arts colleges across the country, see the Watson File on Reserve in Schaffer Library. Pt<Jfessor Teresa Meade, his- tory department, has been on the Wats()n Committee for 10 years and has chaired it several times . Slle remarks that \Union really needs to generate more app\ica- tions, .since this is very good op- portunity for students. Places like Amherst, Middlebury, Wesleyan and Grinnell have 50-100 applicants, and then they tend to have more winners. Amherst had four this year, Middlebury three.\ Meade states that she polled a number of seniors last winter to find out why they didn,t place ap- plications for the Watson. Nearly all of them remarked that they had intended to apply but when the Fall term arrived they were so busy with their senior the- ses, preparing for the graduate and professional school exams, or ap- plying for jobs, that the Watson simply fell to wayside. \It's important that juniors think about the Watson in the spring,\ Meade comments, \so that when they return in September they have a project in mind and can submit their proposals.', We are at a disadvantage over some of the othe.rschools because our fall term is so compressed. Whereas most senioi's have a full semester to work on senior projects and mak.e job applications, ()Ur seniors rush things together in the 10 week term. This might be one reason that we have more in- terest in the spring and then such a drop off in the fall. Professor Meade encourages juniors to attend the informational meeting on 'May 11 to fmd out more about this opportunity, or to con- tact her at meadet@union.edu. This wonderful oopportunity is available to all juniors with creativ- ity, passion and the desire to take advantage of one of the most ex~ citing aspects of a lifetime.

TENURE IS OUTDATED Voices were raised in oppositi()n this past week over a decision about the tenure of one Union professor. Because of the conversations and comments that have been echoing throughout the campus, the staffof Concordiensis feels that tenure is outdated and should be abandoned. At Union, the process, which was instilled in 1921, is one that in- cludes many different steps. If a professor is on the tenure track the scenario unfolds as follows. The professor is reviewed at the end of every year to detennine progress he has made and what, if any, salary increase will be given. After the end of three years the professor is evaluated and receives recommendations as to what needs to be im- · proved and he can be offered another three years or asked to leave the College. If they are asked to stay, professors are then evaluated during their sixth year ami the results are revealed at the end ofthatyear.ln the case that tenure is denied, the professor has one additional year in which he can teach at Union while searching for another position. This process a'lso includes the input of many individuals such as students through evaluations and interviews. Professors are also asked for input through their appointment on the ad-hoc committee and the Faculty Review Beard. These two bodies, after examining various as- pects of the professors teaching. and scholarship, make recommenda- tions to the Dean of Faculty who, in turn, makes a recommendation to the President. Th:e President brings his decision to the Board ofTrust- ees, who have the final say in the matter. The concept of tenure began during the early 1920's to protect the freedom of speech of professors: and teachers alike. It arose during. this time because many were punished through the loss oftheirjobs for the ideas that they ex. pressed in the classroom. For these reasons, tenure was created and many schools of all grade levels adopted the policy that once a perso11 was approved he could not be fired from their posi- tion without a reasonable cause. Upon receiving tenure a professor can only be removed from his position under two circumstances. The first instance occurs when he exhibits gross errors in judgment or behavior. These actions can in- . elude, but are not limited to, indecent relations with a student, extreme teaching negligence and fraudulent activities. The second reasoll a pro- fessor could be removed from his tenured position is ifthe institution is experiencing extreme .. inonetary problems from which it can only recover by downsizing its number offaculty. The aforementioned scenarios in which a person could be removed from their teacl\ing, position are usua\\'y rare. Therefore, once a person is awarded tenure they generally keep theirjob until theydecidet() retire or, in some case:s, until their death. Today this procedure is outdated. We think that it should be removed from campuses across America for several reasons. To begin, it is no longer necessary to protect tile rights of professors through tenure because laws have heen established that prevent unjustified termina- tion. Because ·Of these laws, pr()fessors along with every other profes- sional, have the ability to express their ideas and thoughts. Therefore, it appears as though no reason exists to retain such a finite avenue of employment. Furthermore, teaching is a profession in which one is shaping the minds of tomorr.ow. What eacJ1 professor says and does in class will . influence stude11ts in a variety of ways from changing their mindset to changing their behavior. Professors should be evaluated on a yearly basis to determi11e if they still employ effective teaching l1abits. Ifthey · do not encomp~ss such habits their teaching privileges should be re- voked. In addition, the times are rapidly changing. Technology has not only improved the way that material is presented but it has also made more information avai labie in a shorter time span. Professors should l>e asked to maintain higll standards of technological knowledge and capabili- . ties. Those wh<l cannot employ tactics that appeal to the learning style of today's youtll should not be allowed to continue teaching. Finally, and Jlerhaps most importantly, tenure protects those profes- sors whose job performance decreases upon receiving tenure ~>r grow- ing older. Many decide to neglect their duties because their job is not in jeopardy. Therefore they do i1ot have to work as hard nor do they have to be exceptional professors. Tenure safeguards those whose produc- tivity decreases, which is detrimental to the College. As students vve crave effective, knowledgeable, gifted professors who can explain their material extremely well. Union College i~ blessed with many individtJals who continually challenge their students and excel in their field. However, we do not think that it is in the best interest · of the College to employ professors who cannot complete these ta:sks at the highest level. Therefore, to ensure that each professor is perform- ing well tenure should be abolished. BMB & DCB In today's election you have the opportunity to make tnany powerful dedsions. Many of you may not truly understand the changes that the Student Forum can make. So today when you vote make sure that you take into account that you need to · elect officials who will put the time and effort into the responsi- bility of representing you in the year to come. I encourage you to vote todaf. This is your opportunity to elect people to get things done .f()r you. -Beth Wierzbieniec, Student Forum President Opinions Professor A. T. Miller: A Union College Treasure Students affectionately caB him Jesus. His appearance has a remarkable likeness to he image tnat many artists have given to the founder of Christianity. My unscientific sampling of engineering students yielded the opi.nion that he is a good to excellent teacher. I am n()t familiar with his research. I do know that History Professor and Africana Studies Director Andrew M.iller has been a stimulating and important presence at Union · College and in the community. His civic involvement on the Schenectady County Human Rights Commission, Schenectady Inner City Ministry and Police Review Committee are reminiscent of the socially conscience activities at the beginning of the century by the Union College and Schenectady icon Dr Charles Proteus Steinmetz. Students who never had him in class admire him for his participation in groups and forums. A recent highlight fot me as a faculty member was Black History Week when Professor Miller brcught Reverend Jesse Jackson t() Union College. The lecture enhanced my own education and even more importmt it demonstrated the vital art andpower of actively engaging the audience in the communications process. I was ,disappointed to leam last week that :Professor Millerhas'been denied tenure by the Faculty Review Eoard. I also personally know a:ndrespect each member the board. Is there anything that one can do when people they respect make tile opposite judgement on a matter of such importa11ce as a tenure decision? Professor Miller intends to appeal the decision. Students supportive of Professor Miller held a rally last Friday and plan to follow with petitions and letter writing on Professor Miller's behalf. Initial negativedecisions can be reversed by actions of friends and supporters. The immigration officials at Ellis lslandirt l890were doing their job when they rejected the entvy of the physically deformed refRge Charles Steinmetz on the basis that he would be a burden on society. Friends intervened. Over the next 3 3 years Dr Steinmetz would contribute much to the marvels of the electrical world, Schenectady and Union College. During the last eight years Pmfessor Miller has done much for Schenectady and Union Col- lege. I hope and pray that the initia- tives of students reslllt in his con- tinued presence. Sincerely, Professor Jfraak Wid<s Mechanical Engineering Union Loses The Leader ofDiversity Only weeks away from graduating, Professor Miller's tenure denial has made me reconsider the purposes of the in;;titution whi<;h I will soon receive a diploma from. The contract Union's faculty and Board of Trustees have made to the student body in their mission statement is in dispute due to this rejection of contract-renewal. The firing of the department head of Africana Studies disposes many to question the direction which our school is neaded. The college advertises its inten- tion to create an environment where \students weave the pursuit ofknowledge into the fabric oftheir Jives.\ From this statement, in ad- dition to the institution's low stu~ dent-to-faculty ratio, 1 imagined I would frequently interact with my professors in and o11tside of tne classroom. Few have been able te meet this goal, w~ile AT Miller embodies the school's mission. He has helped \create in students a lifelong commitment to truth and joy in learning\ through his ability tostimulate an intellectual environ- ment. Since his arrival, he has ad- heredto the college's mission state- ment, leading Union to \develop a histori<Jal awareness and intellec- tual integrity that will support a resolve to defend the dignity of all people.'~ As the chair of the MAG, ALAS, Campus Action and UBGLA.O, as well as milny other groups, he has simulated tbe power ofthe minority groups on campus. Going beyond the mission <,>f Unicil, and most impoi1all.t in this compreheJ!sive effort, he bas given the students more options in their academic listings with the creation of the Africana Studies depart-.. ment. This div'ersification has brought the college closer to the prestige of the institutions which we are c<Jmtnonly ranked, that all. offer this discipline as a major. Since my freshman. year, I have also seen AT's ¢ffc:nts transfonn this school multictilturally, with great in- creases in the number of students and faculty of color. His ability to div-ersify-the composition of the scnool.llas created an environment wh1cb llo other professor ·af'lliis institlJtion c~n claim, ot that any ot11er .professor coutd follow. · I am deeply concern about the indirect message berng sent to all of our instructors, witb the denial of Professor Miller's tenure. If you follow AT's example, going above and beyond the school's mission statement, you wilt be asked to leave. Meanwhrle, one of the two de- terrnining credentials the school bases its tenure findings on is aca- demic publishing. While Union remains a liberal arts college, and not a. research institution, Profes- sor Miller excels in teaching and t~e aim for higher learning. This year, as Union goes under review· by Middle States, we must reexam- ine the quality of the education that is being offered to us, and within this, .the ability of the school to make self-analyses. It is obvious to me that Professor Miller's de- nial of tenure is gorng against the words of1he faculty and Board of Trustees, which solicits an inspec- tion ofthe goals ofthe institution. Sincerely, Susanna Ryan Class of. 1999 Letter POlicy & l)isclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addres$~d to the OP!ED page and inustbe received by 5 I'M the onday before publication. Lettel'S'n1t1St:bbless ~'5()() W(}td~ and should pertain t<> ·an issue that, ncemstheUnionCollegecomm~.,~-deCisio~CQt1cerofugprintingandloreditiitg.a. submission. belong to the Editorial Board. Allletters.·P.,ustbe.signe(J atl.d saved on ahigl:t density disk, ·.··ttho~gh the author's name need ri.otap,Jlea;ifinthe.newspaper,ifthe writer so speciftef). Letters do .• otn~essariiy r~tlectthe opinion (}ftlteEditorial Board .. · · , Editorials reflect the opinion of a m~j~rity of the l}ditorial Board~ and ofno one member in tWticU.lar. Any opinion columns or cartoons ~flect:fhe opinions of the writers or artists, and not ri~ces~rity the oplnionsoftheEditori~l Soatd. . . . . ) ,:~v~ments appearingiuCow~~litmsi.$'dontltnecessari1y reflect the opinions ()fthe Editorial '~~ •: ,.· :, ;, ...•.••.... , : ....•.....• · .. ·.· .•. :\ ' .. : ' ' ·. . t:r~~ii!!J~~i~~~~~~: ;: ; ~~~W'~f · 'Bia~ 1~94 C®ttal:Avenii~~ Alb~y, N¥, tzzos~ . · 01 ( I goi Cal I ar cer: her wh sue ing for Ca an; is f nO I bel iss blc W{ ce by de Cc so wl to m th W• at th dt til bl I J ' 1

1 ) .- tl d :- d iS 't{' l- it n () IS te Jf tl. . ., 0 n >t OP/ED ' ' 0 • • tntons Cabaret Cast Appreciates Diversity I am writing to address the on- going issue and conc.ern about Cabaret~ As a member ofthe cast, I am aware of aU the talk and con- cern circulating the campus. I am here to try and put a fina'l note on what should already be a dead is'- sue. The. concern is abouUhe cast- ing ofn()n-Unien students inroles for the spring term musical, Cabaret. I will not deny that anything that you hav~ heard is false orthat we, the cast, were not bothered by the issue. 1 ~o believe, though, that this whole issue has been dragged Qn and blown oute>fproportion. Originally, cast members as well as th!>se who did not re~ ceive roles, were a bit annoyed by the fact that non-Union stu- dents received roles in a Union College production. There were some misunderstandings as to whether other students are allowed to be cast in these roles. There was more of a concern though, that those trying out for the pwduction were not aware of these .intentions ahead ()ftime. Next time, I'm sure that if a director wants to cast stu- dents frQm surrounding communi- ties, Union students will be told before the of takes. place. The issue, though, is no longer a concern to the cast. We, the cast of Cabaret, are actually very ex- cited to cl!lrtently be working with students from.Skidmore,.SUNY Al'- bany, SCCC, as weU as other mem- bers of the Schenectady Coinmu- njty. Union College students ten~ to spend most of their time on cam- pus. We rarely get the chance to involve ourselves in a projectthat involves students from other col- leges. Why should we seclude ourselves? I have come to enjoy working with my fellow cast members, both Union and non-Union students. I actually feel very privileged to be of such an cast and production. I believe that the director of Cabaret, Diane Sadak, . has actually done us. a favor. She should not be ridiculed or harassed for her intentions-she should be praised. We talk about trying to make Union amorediversecommunity, but when one attempts to do so, everyone else bullies her. If we want to really try and diversify Union College, we should take this sort of a situation as an ex- ample. I believe that the word Union, means a number ofper- sons, states, or nations joined .together for a common purpose. The CESt of Cabaret has worked long and hard to come together as a +'Union\ in order te provide this campus with a major production that shouldn't be missed, as well as Union College's first musical in over 20 years. We have stood by the name \Union College\ and everything that it stands for. I hope that the rest of you can as well. Sincerely, Mami Loiacono Class of2001 Waste at West Dining Hall by Lis Kidder Opinion Editor On Monday night of this week, President Hull and Mayor Jurczynski, of S~henec1ady, met with students, faculty and staff from the college and citizens of Schenectady to discuss the Union- Schenectady Initiative. This plan is geared towards revitalizing the neighborhoods surrounding cam- pus and making the dowptown ar- eas more attractive and acces- sible to students. lt includes one-million dollars per year, to be distributed in full scholar- , ships to Union Colleg~ for eli- gible children ofhomeowners in the surrounding neighbor- hoods; improved lighting and sidewalks; and a community center. Hull and Jurczynski dis- cussed the plan and then took comments and questions from audience members. With the ex- ception of a brief tirade by dis- gruntled painters-union work- ers, the forum was both interest- ing and informative. Altllough some would argue that kicking people out of their homes in order to house more students is not very nice, it seems that the ad- ministration is making every effort to compensate the former Seward residents for their loss . While listening to Hull and Jurczynski speak about their ef- forts to help Schenectady resi- dents, l thought about the dinner l ate at West the night before. My friends and I had dragged our lazy butts to the dining hall approxiu mately three minutes before it closed and were therefore present vihen the secret activities of West Dining commenced. We became nervous when the employees changed from their school-spirit- maroon shirts, into hooded robes. We dropped our forks to stare when they began ritualistically sac- rificing large quantities of food. With a ~mall group of appalled students looking on, dining ser- vices employees threw entire un- touched cakes from the dessert bar into the garbage and then headed for the rest of the food. In what was later called \The West Chow Massacre,\ t()ns of food was \When oue student protestetl, lie was told that he 1uul a choice: forget eveiJJ- . thing he just wit- nessed ot get a pie in the face. '' t()ssed into the trash. When one student protested, he was told that he had a choice: forget eVerything he just witnessed or get a pie in the face. Sitting in the Nott Memorial, dis- cussing with leaders of the com- munity ways to help low-income families, I began to wonder if the food thrown in the garbage every night might serve abetter purpose: feeding people, perhaps. Schenectady is not a wealthy community. It can be safely as- sumed that there are people in the city who suffer from chronic hun- ger. With this knowledge, why is the college throwing away such large quantities of food every day? Granted, there are times in which I have run screamingto the .garbage after determining that the food on my plate was the ~:emaln~ of one of those rabid squirrels that plague our campus, but I generally try not to waste. There is a sign above the meal trays in West that reads, \Please don.'t waste. Think about how much food you're putting on your plate.\ By this 1 assume they mean, \Eat as much food as possible, be- cause ifyou don't, we're going to throw it away.\ It is also worth noting that there is an ominous warning posted on both the exit door of West and the back of all stu- dent lD cards which reads, \Foods may not be removed from dining areas. Any viola- tions of dinitig hall rules and regulations .may result in fines, discip1inary action, imprison- ment or beheading.\ I suppose this is because the dining hall employees need the extra food to sacrifice t() the garbage gods, but it seems a little silly to worry about students taking food when much of it is going to be thrown away at the end ofthe day. While the efforts of the Union- Schenectady hiitiative are a step in the right direction, it would also be a step in the right direction if less food was wasted in the dining halls. If the food cannot be used to feed the hungry, perhaps it can be given to irate, A. T. Miller support- ers. I'm sure a friendly food fight with the members of the Faculty Review Board would make every- one feel better. Or perhaps Profes- sor Miller can be given a job in the dining hall. There would be no food. to waste if he distributed just enough fish f()r all students. (Crime Victi,;m$ Refl~.a.rcll .a~d 't~eatmel'lt Cen ... tet' ()f. the ltatl()n.<l;l Vict.im Centa:r} The rate of sexual assa'l,llt in tb.e United State$ is the highest of a11y indu.stJ:\ial- i zed nation in th~ worl(l. Bet\W~en 198 9 a.nCl, 1990, the n'l;lm]:)er of rapes ana attemp,ted x.apes \'increased. an eatt.mated 59%-to an estlnated 207,.00 rapes from l3o,o·oo, acc;:o.rdi:p;g to tbe National Crime Survey. Ot:~;e in 5 ac:i'11l t \WODen has been raped J ac· cord.in.g to the cumulative finl.iings of -4 separate groups of investigators wotk:i,ng in differ.;nat :r-egions of tile United States, 20% of adult \1'/0men lS% of coll,ege wqmen, aild l.2% of adoles<=ent girls have ex.pex:i- enced sc;~xual al;luse and assault du:ring t·he:i;r lives. 78% of victim (1Q'lt,} # US%). rapes invol.ve a perliJo* that the. k~e.w- · husba~ds ox ex-hoyf~iends o the:r rfi!l.a ti.vf:ls I fr:l. ends I ne :l.ghb or 11 29% of ~ll rapes ·oc::cur whEU~ the victi.m is lei!Js than 11. year$ old and 32% of aU. rapes oceu.r. When 1:,he victim is between the .ages of ll aud 11 . Wo:men betwee.n t:he a,ges o.£ 16 and 24 were thr'ee times mo:re l:ikely t,o be raped tha:n women :1.:~ othe:r a.gtil cohort,e. Safe Space Beepel' # 1-800-283-2255 -pin: 1134~ C!Inncnr.Oi.ensis The Student Newspaper of Unitm Colleg£ Since I 877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper Brooke Barylick- David Brooks EDJTOF.S-JN-CHIEF Jaime Chandler EXECUTIVE EDITOR Elisabeth Kidder OPINIONS EDITOR Jessica Zuehlke NEWS EDITOR Brian Terlinsky SPORTS EDITOR Sc()tt Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Kimberly Robback A&EEDITOR Sloan Miller Cory Silken PHOTO EDITORS Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Victoria Hargreaves SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR Neil Routman WORLD NEWS EDITOR Jon Kelson Michael S. McGuire COPY EDITORS Danielle Devine Amanda Jackson ADVERTISEMENT COORDINATORS Steve Mortefolio PROMOTIONAL MANAGER PHOTOGRAPHERS: Chip Crary, Shannon Conaty, Jennifer MacDowell, Jeremy Messler, Sloan Miller, Dave Meguerdichian, Leah S-Baker, Rebecea Walsh. STAFF: Matt Aronowitz, Jeffrey Ausfeld, Steve Ayers, Jessiea Drearton, Gina Campanella, John Carbone, Lisa Carbone, Heatller Clements, Erin Connoly, Jim DeWann, Mary Felton, Stephen Flaherty, Peter Flynn, Heatlt Fradkoff, Matt Gendron, Lori Greene, Sarah Harslt, Courtney Hayden, Mike lger, Clark Jones, Jon Kelson, Daniel Kelhmanovich, Jordan Lippman, Hugh Meyer, Sloan Milltr, Sbaun Montana, Stephen Nemeth, Brian Roache, Steve Schuler, Kate Schmidt, Mark Shemel, Eugene Shultz, Adam-Paul Smolak, Rory Stern, Lee Stevens, Jon Tapper, Charles Tuthill, John Zandman.

Everybody Has Two Faces This is a story about split-person- ality disorder. Whether we realize it or not, we all suffer from it in one fnm1 or another, the greatest example of which will be splayed all over the campi:IS this coming weekend. Most people undergo a rapid transformation when their parents are around. They play very differ- ent roles with their peers in com- parison with when they are with parents. Although some are able to main- tain a constant personality regard- less of situation or circumstance, the majority of human beings take on a markedly altered persona when situated in the vic;nity of Mom and Dad. My parents have been here to visit me a few times over tile last three years, but I will not be g;ra~ed with their presence this year on Parent's Weekend. Although I hate to admit to my shift in attitude around them, 1 know that I am pretty much an entirely different person when I am with my family. I grew up in a home with an intense amount of discipline. Rules in my house would seem outlandish to most, but as a child I a.ssumed ev- eryone else was growing up just like me. l was only allowed to watch television on certain nights and b.ad to -wait for the weekend if I wanted to eat or drink soda. Naturally, college is a virtual Dis..neyland for me. With soda flowing freely in the dining halls and a convenient store tilled with any candy l desire, l couldn't ask for a more plentiful paradise away from home. When I am here, I am living rec:klessly.l know it soundsrjdicu- loas,. but I consider myself bliss- fully uninhibited at college. I was raised to believe that sleeping be- fore I 0 PM was the law and thata score of 99 on an exam was to be immediately followed by the phrase, \What happened to the other point?\ So, natuvally, being ab·le to go to sleep whenever I de- sire, whether it is 8 PM or 4 AM, is a lovely freedom to have. Being able to keep the fluctuations of my grades to myself is a much-wel- comed change to having my aca- demic progress constantly moni- tored. My parents demand a lot from me and are rarely satistied with my efforts. But I suppose that with that high level of ~:;xpectation con- stantly bearing uponnty shoulders, I !lave grown to be a highly dFiven a11d motivated young adult. I love my parents dearly for helping me to become a good peTson, and un- dcerstand thatthey come from acul- ttlre where the concept of \being s.trict\ is inherently associated with ski! I do not .,,,.,,.,..., them forthat. I am h~ppy to have the chance to roam free while I arn away from them. When they are aroand, how- ever; 1 revert back to the docile child tltey believe me tobe. I don't think they actually believe I am as submissive as I act. I think that they know I change myself for them, a11d quietly appreciate me for pleasing them for at least a little while. I owethem that much. 1 am always inter~sted to see how otller people will act with their paYents. If the loudmouth- toughaguy will tenderly hug his mother when she arrives w\ith chocolate chip. cookies in hand. If that quiet-girl-who-never-seems- to-speak-in-class will transform into a bubbling glow of stories and laughter around her father. If the overly-confident-arrogant-would- be-cheerleader gingerly cracks a timid smile around her parents and shifts into conversation of the lat- est developments in Kosovo. I wonder. So, for all the rest of you out there wlto know you really live separate lives, get ready to switch gears. Mom and Dad are on their way; I'm sure you'll be on your best behavior. And we'l1 all be so busy being our parents' children again that we won't even notice the change in, personality all ~four Word Search by Amanda Jackso11 I E F s A I s N E p L I E c G A s y I H D M N y M T 0 A T y w y A u I K s R A 8 E c 0 R L E y H A c X T R E I 0 A K s w A 0 R H T N c N L E M s R 0 M s s E p X F R D A N 0 w s K I y y R L B A T N p u M T u E A I A u A F G s A w A T s A 0 I I s D N L L T Q A L E R w E H H c L u D w I G 8 N L A E J L I E s K T A N R G p y u E 0 M N H R B y H T p K E s R 0 s H G u K H I A L T I H T M z G E D '{ N 1 N y F M p I N R L A N s L L R N c A E u H K 8 c 1 J. N L 0 A E A A T H G A I y p H 0 I N N R 0 T L H E A M R N p w I w v T H 0 I A H E I N E G G 0 p T w I E L G s A s N A w L N I 0 G N I B z J A 0 R z T I apologize for not writing;any- tbinglastweek, and I can'tprom- ·ise thatthis one will he very funny, but... The mass-voice-mail thing has started to get to me.. I' gu~ss it's the fact that l wHl be a $enior very S€lon. Maybe it's my cynical natttre. Maybe if I see ~nother \Got __ .'!\sign I'll stea:l Student Activities' approval :st~p and kill several people in the j)rocess. Maybe it's the fact tha.1 every single thing that exists anll.O)'S me. Whatever. l nate mass-voice-:mails. 1 hate 'em. There's nothing worse to come home to than 10 useless messages that have filled up your inbox. I can ~t believe that,for me, it took until winter tel1Jl sopho• more year. to ;learn abo11t 3-3-7. Since the entire campus r-eads my column, I thoaght I wo11ld help people eliminate a little a11noyance from their lives. If you ktl()W what 3-3-7 is then skip to the 11.ext para- .gra,ph. Basically, it's not told to you in the Octe 1 book th::1t you get at the beginning of the year. If you want to skip throug)J a mes- sage to erase it~ just puncn in 3-3- 7 and it magically skips through your dumb-ass mass-voice-maiL I hope I've eased the pai11 in your life. I also resent rnass-v()ice-tnails becallse they rarely send voice- mails to tell you abQut itrtportant stuff. You're never goi11g to hear, \Come~ today. Carnptis crawl. Free beer. Converse wi:tlt bike- copswhile you chug.\ It's always telling you about more ad-hoc committ_ees to vote on V()ting for a vote about tenure for some profes- sor I've never heard of. Or worse is wit en they suck you ill by say- ing something that nukes you think. it's a personal message and then bit you with the us;(lfess info. \fley (pause), how ya doin '? (I Q n g e r pause} What's up? (l o n g e s t p a u s e) This is just a reminder that tonigbt at 7:3 0 blah blah blah ... \ This· Juts annoyed me so much that J have tried to recall all the past messages from the last couple of weeks.. It's true that- there are some rare voice-,mails that are worthy of30 seconds of my precious time. So, I have tfied to remember how bng it takes lis- tening to the message for me to 3- 3-7 it. 15 Phrases Usell in the Begin .. ning of Mass-Voiee-Mails That Force Me to 3-.3-7 the Message 15. \What is a D()id? .. .3·3-7 14. \Are you artistic, or cre- ative? ... 3-3-7 13. \Do you feel· that Student Government is tlte most use- less ... 3-3-7 12. \'It's that time of year again, the 1 Olh annual Big Bt:otllers/Big Sisters volleyball.-3-3-7 11. \This is a message for all club presidents ()r treasurers ... 3- 3-7 10. \llls of the- system? ... 3-3-7. 9. \Thursday- Tl:uusday- Thurs- day. At Chet's-Chet's- Chet' s .. uhh .. Tllree-Three-Seven. 8. \Do you have no life and want to come to the fashion show? ... 3- 3-7 7. ''Hi, this is jllst a reminder to clean your room .. .3-3-7. I said 3- 3-7 damnit. 6. ·\Kosovo?. ... 3-3-7 5. \Am I annoying you yet? ... 3- 3-7 4. \Hayyah!D()youwannakick some butt? ... 3-3-/ 3. \What is a Doid?\ Hey, didn't I already get this message? 3-3-7 2. \Come apply- for the best non- work-study job 011 campus ... 3-3- 7 . 1. \This is the. last day for sign- ups for the Big S.rothers/ Big ... 3- 3-7 E A I L T 8 A T D E s u L A T L R u L A M E T N N R I N E E I H I s I E L c R y A L N I F D 0 s A A L s G R s A E K E R 0 A N 'T K L u N I E u B L A L Tappet's. ~olu111n ·· • · - . · . ·· · .· · · · . mg dmng that? lie got mvolved v s A 0 w N K T v c y H 0 M c E L T I 0 s T E s A I H s N D A D A E R u L R E c T 0 N A I D M M I D R y p 0 w I v L A s M L R A L R T 0 B I E s K 0 E H s c M I J K E 0 PROFESSORS AT UNION COLLE(iE I F E s F M p E R M () E N L s T D K A A M N s R s s E N I F z 8 H 0 N B L p I A K y 0 J N B 0 N T I N N A R 0 u I D E 0 0 M F u R B by Jon Tap{H)r. Staff Writer I received a lot of positive feed- back on last week's column about hQw Union is screwittg over the painters. So I figured tl:!at I would attack an issue this Week that has rnot·e to do with the day to day li~es of the student body. In case you haven't heard, PrO>fessor A. T. ALMSTEAD HEINEGG NICHOLS Millerofth~HistotyaodAfricana BENJAMIN HOLLOCHER pARK Studies Department did not re- ceive tenure. BERK KAPLAN SCULLION Why is this? CESARSKI LUDWIG SLADE How can a man wiio has had SPANGLER such a positive influence on a CORLEY MARTINEZ .. · .· . · ·. nutnber of students at 1bis institu- DANOWSKI MCMULLEN TOBIESSEN tion not get tenure? Wbat did he EYERMAN MORLING YAISAWANG dowrong? Hecaredal1outhisstu- <lents. That strikes tile as being FINLAY MOSQUERA ZULLI wrong. He educated nis students. and truly fell in love with the Union College campus and its in- habitants. Get rird of him just for that. Butseriously.,tl1iswho1e process is ridiculous. Without getting into detail because my column is only so long, the Faculty Review Board (FRB) was the legislative body that decided that Professor Miller was not worthy oftenuTe. But why is tit is\? They claim that they took what the students had to say very seriollSI;!Y. Dean Cool s.aid that. I believe her. But i don't think that the c:;ommittee ~ven looked at those p.ink sheets that we evaluate the professor's on .. And even if they did, <lid they take their contents seriolls.ly1 I don't think so. Let's talk about the makeup of Ct~ntinued on Page 11 FOX . . _. . A~ainj whatthehe~lwashethink- . - .. - .. ~ ....................... - ..... - ......... -.. ... \\ .. -..., ... - .... - .... - ..... -- ...... - ... - .. ---- ....... .., .. --- '* .. ,._----- ... - .. --- ... ~ .......... - .. -- -- ........... ,..- .......... -- .. -.-- ...... - .. ~ j 'I ti tc tt ti c f \ i i

0 ' ·- :k y, •? '. rl- 3- n- 3- I \ ~d te n- or :Ss to ly .rd tat '3S tat to :tid n't en we .nd teir ink 10f 11 i ·1 ,, 1 1 '1 \Riding the Pine'' from other ar- ticles that have been written from terms abroad, a lot of thought had to be p'Ut in. For the most part, ar- ticles written ftomacross the world come in one of two fonns. The first is the straight forward article which is very dry and gives a bor- ing account of the trip. The other form is the one that is filled with inside jokes thatonly the members of the term abroad understand. 1 felt that neither of these would do. For people who read my article on a regular basis, you know that it i:s almost never straight forward or dry. So, then, where does this leave \Riding the Pine\ from Italy? In a word, limbo! No matter how hard I reworked this article it al- ways ended up as a giant inside joke. So I went with it; the article is full of inside jokes, but they come with explanations. Duomo=large church in the middle of Florence. Built in the 14th Century of flammable marble; it was the basis for Gotham city. It is best viewed at night on weed. Dunkel=a very bitter beer. However, due to the fact that it is 3 7 cents a glass, we choke it down every day. Dunkel Light=~ot as bad as regular Dunkel but can only be drunk in small amounts due to its annoying aftertaste. Dunkel U.F.O.=A special spring time brew from our favorite brewer. The best of the Dunkel line, it can only be enjoyed with friends. Pigeons=large flying rats that tend to crap on anything or any- one. Mosquitos=About the size of tav·orrte game carrying offmnsuspecting people. Ecco=ItaJi.l\11 saying. Most popular witli -tile college crowd and the elderly. Always said .in a deep raspy voice like you are a 69- year~old I tal i11n woman named Rosanna. Sempre inCasa=Another popu- lar Italians!lyillg .. Combine it with tutti and y-ell' re speaking Italian. The leani3lg Tower= Guess what, Unio11,. it reaJiy does lean. lmagine tllat- Our resident civil engineer Sco1t Halla referred to it as the eng;ine:ering ·fl' *k up. Frescos=Realiy old paintings on walls that are: !lands on. Touching . them is fun. No, really, go ahead~ touch them, it>s OK. Small T()wn ·Police= No, officer, l don't spea:ildtalian. No, officer, I don't ha:vemy passport. Am I in trouble? Red Win e=Aka vino rosso. Drink it inpCtirs. In pairs I tell you! Fluffy wilite ass or F.W.A.=AJ»pears after drinking Red Wine (~eeabove) and prepar- ing to visit tile Duomo at night (see number 1) .. You will more likely see F.W.A. if a video camera is present. The islmdofElba= A nice place to visit. Take a motorbike tour of the island. Make sure you visit the beaches~ 1ile swamps, and their world famous concrete ditches. Most like])' you will love it so much that y()uwill ·]eave some part of yourself behind. Public 1':ra.nsportation=Here in Europe, it is go by trains, buses or foot. I recommendthe bus system. With largespacious seating, some people feel like it is their own pri- vate bedr<>crn. <l!tmct1rhlen~is ·May 6, 1999 • Tapper's Column ~·~Continued from page 11 goodinthem, you would grab your this committee. Five males. Not own ass. a female to be found. To my Class= Think back to when you knowledge, there are a number of were in fifth grade. Theo add nap · female professors on this campus time. who are excellent at what they do. In all seriousness, however, af- So why aren't there any female ter spendingha1f a tenn in Europe, representation on this c<>mmittee? we as a;group and individuals have But I'm starting to get off topic so seen a lot and traveled far. Some this issue can be examined at an- of us have visited far away cities, other time. such as Vienna, Nice and Back to the point. In a clear Cophenhagen. show of support by the students Otllers .have explored the wine last week, a rally was held last Fri- country of Tuscany, the beaches day to show the faculty anda.dmin- ofthe Amaffi coast, and some have istration that the students did not even gotte skii:ng in the Alps. We agree with the decision. The pro- have seen great works of art from test continued this week with a Donate He, MiclLelangelo, Matisse . massive letter writing and petition ana others. We have also seen campaign. The students have spo- stick fig11reart frorn Scllultz, Votto ken LOUD and CLEAR.. and Hoyer. The ball is now in the faculty's The term has given us the op- court. I don't hold grudges. I un- portunity to meet people from derstand that the members ofthis Germaay, England, Japan and committee are human beings. I Southern California. Hey, it is a know a couple of them very well separate country. Some of us have and they are nice, reasonable been served amazing meals, while people. Human beings make mis- others prefer bread, water and liver takes. But it takes a big human paste. being to admit that they were Being in 1taly has given us the wrong and correct an inaccurate opportunity to learn not one but decision. two new languages. There is Ita!- Maybe they did not understand ian, but we are also learning En- how much the student body can- glish. Oh, y()u didn't know; we not afford to Jose Profess()r Miller. speak American. It's different. We Maybe they did, but they just did have had days when aU we want not seem to care. Either way, it is to do is go b. orne, But these are up to them to do something about balanced by days when home is the it. last thing on <lur minds. On a side note, I know that a At the end oftned<Ly we get to- . number of you thought 1 'Was go- gether at our favotite bar, the ing to blame Preside11t Hull for Fiddler's Elbow. We tip a few this. But President HtJll has had back, tllink ofpla(;es we have been nothing to do with this process as and the sights we have seen, and of yet. I am sure that S()rnewhere always end the day with a smile down the road he willputthe final on our faces. nail in Professor Miller's coffin as far as his status as a11 educator at this college goes. T);)en and only then will I blame P'resident Hull. Jttdging from past experiences with President Hull, he doesn't have the guts to overturn a wrong decision. It is easier for him to avoid the problem and go on liv- ing his slick lawyer life. l beg. you, Roger, for the fir~t time in your life, do tile right thing. Step up to the plate and help the stlldent body out. You've never done it before, but as you would say, ••only U can make a differ- ence.\ If for some reason Presi- dent Hull does come through for Professor A. T. Miller, I will owe him a sincere apol<>gy. But trust me, I doubt I wil:l be publicly apologizing to President Hull any- time soon. So what can the students do? Continue to flood President Hull's mailbox, email, and voicemail with letters of discontent with the decision. Force l!im te interact vvitll the students, understand their feelings, and do what is right. And I ask you once again this week, how many more people can this school screw over? This needs to stop and this nee<ls to stop right here and now. And comments ()11 this article or questions on hovv you can help Sllpport Professor A.T. MilJer can be sent to me at J3.ox #2037. And f<>r the rest of you who have been llelping a\\ along~ we are making significant progress. We are set- ting precedent that could be in place for years to come. We are l:lecoming a part of the history of college. Keep up the good work We will win this battle. (),. Tu.~sdar.a M.~! 1.1 @6:30p.m. • lR The NOTT A Dialogue: Disability Issues and College Dean Sehuriek Prof. Weiner, Prot Benaek., Jesse Prisco & Jordan Lippman Sponsored by: en.a6LeD, The Political Science Department & The Psychology Department

World News ·.·.· •j•• 't ,_ •'. ·,· Jesse Jackson Negotiates the Release of Three US Prisoners ,of War by NeilRo11tman World News Editor Jackson cannot speak for all Americans~ but it is the general interest for our prison- ~ ers of war to be allowed safe passage ba~k . The rescuing of war prisoners is nothing home. Obviously, no person would disap- new ror Reverend Jesse Jackson. Jackson prove of the. ends of Jackson's recent ac- has been active in nearly every politiclll con- contplishmeilt. The three prisoners were flict in the past twell1}'-five· years. ln his used as a symbol of American aggression; · 1984 carnpaign for president, Jacks()n vis- the public displaying of American prisoners · ited both Cuba and Syria. He negotiated the was a constant and unnecessary reminder release of US Navy pilot Bob Goo<iman, that our actions of war did have conse- whose plane was sllotdown over Lebanon. quences; these men put faces to our fears. He freed forty-eigllt Cuban-Americans be- Jackson's nkkname, \Conscience of the ing held againsttbeir will in Cuba. 1111990, Nation,\ reminds Americans thatthesepris- Jackson was able to wee 150 Kuwaiti women oners have families who have not sleptfor a and children, only weeks before Operation month; Jackson puts a humanitarian twist Des~ert Storm bega11.. on a political issue. Jackson always has the · Jesse Jackson has a unique ability and interests of the poor, the disadvantaged, the opportllnity to negotiate with hostile gov- oppressed, and the captives at heart. His emments;. he has clearly proved this in the organization, the RainbowP.U.S.H. Coalition, past. Once again, J acksou has used b. is abil- exists to assist and serve humanity- the eld- ity to sF.cure the release of war prisoners. erly, the hungry, the welfare recipients, and The three US soldiers who were taken into the labor. Those who disapprove of custody on Marcl1 31 were shown on na- Jackson's efforts because of a conflict with tional television brllised and beaten. One the US and NATO's war plans need tore- rnonth and one da)llater, Jackson was able member that Jackson acts in the best inter- toprovidefortheirsafepassagetotlleGer:. est of humanity. He did not promise m;my, and eventu111ly the United States. Milosevic an end to war; he has not that D<Jctors inspected tbe prisoners after their power (yet). He made no concrete assur- arrival at an Ameri<:an Air Force base in Ger- ances; he merely convinced Milosevic and many: tltey had min<Jr cuts, scrapes, bruises, his government that it was in their best in- and sh<Jwed signs ()f broken ribs. terest to release these men. The three men claim~d that they were Withprisoners, the US hasarallyepicen- treated poorly for the first week of C()nfine- ter. It is ear.ier to be energetic about saving ment, but their captors tr~ated them well for American boys rather than ethnic Albanian the remaining weeks, feeding them three refugees. Over centuries, the Albanians and times a day. Despite their improved treat- Serbians have committed equal atrocities ment, the Serbian captors did not comply towards each other. It is easy to fake a teal- with the Geneva Accords, refusing to a\\ow ist approach and simply see this issue as humanitarian worl<ers to see and aid tbe three Of!e of a number of conflicts traced back to prisoners. That is why Jackson's.rescue .of the fourteenth century; hence, it is not in these rnen was critical. They were in an un- our best interest to put American soldiers at stable situation tlutcould have easi.ly led to risk. But without these three men to recall, their execution. the point of war will be questioned more of- Some Americans question the lll()tives of. ten and more seriously. Jackson, whethertllis stunt is simply an ad- Milosevic was leaning towards releasing ditional stepping. stone towards the presi- the eldest captor, a man with children. How- dency in 2004. Tills argument has been used ever, Jackson convinced Milosevic to re- in the past during I\. is campaigns in 1984 and lease all three because they were all cap- 1988. However, Jackson has decided not to tured together. Jackson held a prayer ses- run for America's highest office in'2000- re- sion with the Yugoslav President, holding alizing thathe wiHonly contribute to a Demo- his hand and asking him to take the righ- cratic split between AI Gore and Bill Brad- teous pathofhumanity. Despite someobvi- ley. ous complications with previous and cut- Sorne Americans say that Jackson cannot rent crimes against humanity, Jackson sat stand for American policy and has no right down witn the President and helped him, as to negotiate with governments wllo the US a Reverend, with; his sins. government wiH refu~e to negotiate with Controversy surrounded this prayer ses- themselves. S()me say now that Jackson sion- a well respected and important politi- released the prisoners, not only will the Serbs cal icon in American culture consorting with . expect some sort of compensation but other the world •s presently most notorious, ne- nations will feel sympathetic t-owards the farious criminal? Despite these ccmplica- newly \moderate and fair\ Serbian army. tions, Jackson was able to negotiate the re- Serbian Preside11t Slobodan Mih>sevic has lease of these men with a president not wor- clearly won thi~ IJO litical duel- he captured thy of American trust. Americans who were beyond a b<lrder that This accomplishment will be noted on by Stephen Nemeth StqffWriter Jesse Jackson, esteemed public figure aid respected leader, scored a huge victory ear- . lier this week by successfully negotiati11g the release of the three American prisDners ofwat frorit the Serbian government. The negotiations that Jackson completed with the Serbian government can be seefl as anotner victoty for the longtime social ac.- tivistandassistanttotheRev. Martin Luther King, Jr. However, a question has come to lig;ht: Are celebrities and public figures unde~ill· ing American foreign policy? Admittedly,. the release ofthe three Atneri- . cans can he seen as a way in whicb ille Serbian government has tried to divide US . public opinion. This is a very <;:lever stra.t- egy from the standpoint of the Belgradeg;ov- . ernment, Mi losevic knows how important pub! ic opinion is to this operation and of the m ilitaJy' s continued suffering from the \Viet- nam.Syndrome\ or, in other words, its un- wiUingness to commjt to operations iltat might•lower public opinion or result in large numbers of casualties. In this way, Jackson has played rigbt i!lto Milosevic's hand. Jackson is a ill<!tl \WIIo commands an enormous amount ofres:pec.t from all races as well as both sides of'Con- gress, and his opinion is taken very seri- ously. In the positive light, three Ameril(;ans were freed from a hostile governme11t., but the comments of Jackson have damage<! the main purpose behind the military opet11tic:m. Jackson's comment.s in regards to 11 balt to the bombing, and moreover his comments · regarding the release of the priso11ers, seemed to put the US government in at<oug;h spot. Either way the government an<l the NATO ~lliance go the world community and the American public will criticize thetn- If the alliance continues to bomb~ tlley will be seen as bloodthirsty barbarians in- tent on destroying Serbia and Milosev-ic:. lf they negotiate they will be seen a.s weak and it will only confirm. that the initial air strikes were not the proper course ofa<tion. The allies will also be seen neg<Jt:ia.ting with what many have called a \butches; and a perpetrator of genocide. This willn()tonly damage the credibility'ofthe United States, but it will also call into question the need of the NA TOalliance. This brings to mind a story that occ\frred duringthe Vietnam War.Duringthewa:i,Jarte Fonda visited North Vietnam and com111ented on the US involvement in the war. [n an event that still bothers many veter- ans, Fonda sat in the chair of an antietircraft gun -and looked through the sight. . . (. She was quoted as saying, \I wish I had one of thoie blue eyed murderers in my sight:'' Her comments and the photo opportunity it presented damaged the already low mo- rale ofUS troops in Vietn&m 1 and were inter- preted by many as an endorsement of the North Vietnamese government While Jackson and Ftmda are vastly dif- ferent in many respects, the very presence and the comments that Jackson had pre- sentedth.e Serbian government with a simi- lar advantage. While Jackson did nQt endorse the gov- ernment ofMilosevic, he gave them an out- let in which they can try to manipulate. The opinions of a vastly respected man going counter to the policy of the US gov- ernment is equally as damaging to a public and a Congress that have strong doubts about the effectiveness of the NATO air strikes . In an age where celebrities and other stand-out iridividuals have come to be more respected than public servants, they have to ask themselves an extremely important question: How should l align myself with or against tbe policies of the government and how can that be interpreted? I am 11ot advocating censoring anyone's views- lam recommending that these .people realize the power they have and to choose wisely and with restraint how they wish to be seen in furthering the cause of a group or government. This is not to say that all people with pres- tige and media exposure have hindered the policy of the government. Many celebrities have become politically active in causes such as the Free Tibet move- ment a11d the sanctions on the apartheid government of South Africa during the 70s and SOs. This did not run counter to any policy of the us, but instead gave this· policy a cred- ibility it may not have ha~ with the Ameri- can people in addition to the international community. True, very few of us know the true intent of the Milosevic government; it is hoped tnatthe release ofthe three soldiers is a true diplomatic gesture and not one of political posturing. Also~ out of the deep resp~ct the Ameri· can pe()plehave for the Reverend Jesse Jack· son, we( as well as I) hope he was not being used as a political pawn by the Milosevic government. Let us remember, however, that despite the importance that the three soldiers held for us, the testofthe NATO alliance is look- ing for an end to the continued atrocities inflicted on the Kosovo populace. That is the true way to the negotiating table for the NATO alliance. · they were not supposed to be, and he gives Jackson's impressive list of accomplish- .1------------------------------------ up bis prison.ers to an adv()cate who ments; his commitment to humanitarian prea(:hes that America should st{)p bomb- causes is strong, and his sheer ability to geance in a manner contrary to tea.c:hings Crusades can be traced to today, according negotl .ate wt't.h hostt'le natt'ons 15 · r·emarkable. and character of Jesus,\ said Mike Niebur, to Niebur. \We hope we will start to end ing Yugoslavia md r. estart negotiations. . _______ ..;,_ _________________________ _, the one of group's coordinators. that legacy and start on a riew track,\ he The CrllSaders were driven by Homan said. Western Christians Apologize for Crusad~s Catholic leaders who wanted contr()l of After Jerusalem was taken from the Mus:.. Jerusalem. The control of the city would lims <ln July f5, 1099 1 Christian conquerors English that were to be handed out. The 50 have helped to consolidate their pfJlitical established a permanent feudal system &f members have paid their own expenses, and gains in Europe. g<Jvemment, and a series of French kings are visiting Jewish communities along the The trip will culminate in mid~July wben a reigned. Muslim forces, in 1 181, by He:ather Campbell Staff Writer An interdenominational group of Chris- Rhine Valley and towns in Lebanon and group of about 1 ,500 will travel by foelt from feconquored Jerusalem, which started the tians from the U11ited States, Europe, Aus- Turkey. a Crusader fortress in Northern Israel to Second Crusade. tralia, and New Zealand are participating in Nine centuries ago, Crusaders marched Jerusalem. Once there, they will ap()\()giz~ So far, the \Reconciliatory March\ h!IS· the\Reconcilia.ti()n March.\ Th~y are seek- through the Rhine Valley and slaughtered to religious leaders on the 900th an1ti-versary . received a positive reception. He related a ing forgiveness from Jews, Mttslirns, and all those who would not convert to Chris- of the fall of Jerusalem to the Crusaders. ·story about a Jewish community to a reporter. Eastern Christi;ms whose ancestors were tianity al()ng the way to their goal ofliberat- Members ofthe group see a linkbetween He called and told the community leaders killed during the Crusades becatJse they te- ing the region where Jesus had lived from the Crusades and more recent events,. such that the marchers were behind schedule. fused to convert to Christianity. non-Christian rulet·s. as the Spanish Inquisition, the liolorcaust, \Tbe Jewish community responded; In Jerusalem ()D Sunday, the group had \Exactly 900 years ago, Christians visited and today's East-West relationship. · 'We've waited 900 years, we can wait one written apologies in Arabic, Hebrew, and this land with a sword and a spirit of ven- The distrust and violence creat()d by the more hour,\' he said. JtO * ... *' IIJ' ... \' \\' - - .... \\ \' ... '\ \\ P .. .. .. • ljO \'' Joo\ \' :$!' \\ II 'JD IS \' • 101 ._ lfll \\' .,.. ~ IP\ • ,. 1!1' ., .,._ .,. to' \' 01' • !Oit !¥' :< \ ,_, .)< ,.. f'l. ...... >o. .... ~ & \\ ,.._ .,.. ,. ...,_ .C • r>1 T I' \' 10 ... a \' \\ ., \' \ ., ~ \\' \\' 1!< '\' .,. '\' \\' ,. .,.. \ v ,. ;.. ._, ,. 'I' \\ w ..,_ 1» \ ,_ ~ ' \\' , , .,. <1 ~ • 4' _... ,_ '· { It ran~ the·· rum Clir ano' ing J~ pasl whi UP\ bee the the: ply j top ec< cui me me an1 no W! ad

S· a ·. s I, e .. l dt1111~nrm~ruJi~ • May 6, ·1999·• Page 13; . . . Presi'dent Clinton .and Pri,me Min:ister Obuchi: Another Milestone in Global Affairs Japa11 Has Begun its Move to Stimulate its Economy, which has Suffered for Nearly Eight Years byD11vid. Gruner Stt:JjfWriter It has been over -twelve years since a high ranking officialfrCJrn Japan has traveled to the White Hou:se (()r open and closed quo- rums, makingthemeetingbetween President Clinton and Prime Minister Keizo Obuohi anothermilestome ihthe past week concern- ing world politic:$. Japan has sufferedmuch distress over the past few years odme to an economic cris.is which has hindereci progress and any other upward econoltlic:;.mobil'ity. Japan has long been considered the anchor in reference to the Asian econ(mny, but since its collapse there has beendiscussion in regard to sim- ply recovery, if ~t all. . According to :PJesident Clinton and other top officials, \Without resolving Japan's economic pr()blerns, it would be very diffi- cult to calm theen.tire global financial tur- moiL\ Japan is a key link in creating a even more global ecomc:nny, so without its power and distinctio11, ille possibility of an eco- nomic revival i~ sabstantially weakened. On Monday morning, May 3, President Clinton met wit~ Erime Minister Obuchi, who was lauded for ''\acting quickly in order to address his natirn11's economic woes.\ Af- ter taking office in Julyof 1998, Prime Minis- ter Ob11ch.i has spent numerous hours de- ciding wltat to do that co11ld rekindle the iapanese flame, which was admired and glo- rified for so many years. How was Japan to deal with suc}J a cha- otic and C()nfusing situatioll? Sbould Japan cut taxes? Should Japan raise taxes? Or should Japan pump tens of billions of Yen into public funds in order to· prop up some worldwide banks? These were and are the qaestions that Prime Minister Obuchi faces daily, and .ar.e subsequently issues that wi H either make or break the fate of the Japanese legacy. Clinto11added to his earlier statement con- cerning praise for the Prime Minister of Ja- pan; saying, \You have been in office less than a year, but already you have taken im- portant steps in meeting the challenges that face you, and reaching the goals that unite us ... with the right choices, Japan and Asia will emerge stronger, more Oj)efl, more demo- cratic, better adapted to meet the twenty- first century.\ These are promising w<nds for a country that is facing an \age of anxiety,\ wordsthat Preside11t Clinton might not have made in the early months ofthe Asian crisis. Specifically, in the meetings, both leaders NINTH ANNUAL CHARLES PROTEUS STEINMETZ SYMPOSIUM May 7 111 and 8 1 h, 1999 STUDENT CREATIVE, SCHOLARLY AND RESEARCH ACfllEVEMENT Six sessie11; of concurrent oral presentations and artistic performances begin at 9:2~ a~m. through 6:00p.m. on Friday, Mety 7th in the Olin Building, Social Sciences, Steinmetz Hail, Science & Engineering Building and the Arts Building Followed by a Banquet at 6:30 p.m. in Upper Class Dining Hall f()r all presenters, parents of presenters, sponsors and moderators SESSION I- 9:20 -10:40 a.m.- Concurrent Oral Presentations SESSJON li -l 0:50a.m. -12:10 p.m.- Ccncurrent Oral Presentatit)ns SESSION Ill- Dance Performances..;.12:20 -1:50 p.m. Dance Studio, Arts Bllilding SESSION IV- 2:00- 3:20p.m.· Concwent Oral Pres;(lntations SE~SION V- 3:30- 4:50p.m.- Con~urrent Oral Presentations Including the Union College Choir at 3:30 p.m. Perfonning Arts Studio, Arts Building SESSION VI- 5:00 - 6:00 p.m. -Concurrent Oral Presentations PO~TER SESSION· Saturday, May gtn> 11:00 a.m.- 12:30 p.m. Nott Memorial THEATER PRODUCTION 'JACK ANDJILLt' Fri~2y, May 7th, Saturday, May 8th, andStmday,May 9th - 8;00 p.m. Ylllman Theater UNION COLLEGE ORCHESTRA tiRO MANTIC FAVORITES' Fridayr :May 7' 11 ... S:30 p.m. Memorial Chapel ART EXHIBITION Arts Building Atrium from May 7th - May 131h agreed on terms of a package of new trade agreements in which Japan announced that it would wide:n the door even more to allow for an expans,ion of\sales opportunities for U.S. telecommunications companies, drug manufacturerrs, lumber companies, banks and broker~efil111s and energy companies.\ Trade betwveen the United States and Ja- pan has been blocked recently due to the Asian crisis, ana as a result has become an evil nuisance:. America's trade deficit with Japan soared to $64 billion last year, almost one-third ofLts entire deficit of$169 billion. The unlelkShed plan this week is designed to restrict tllese barriers ftom creating an even bigger ·deficit as well as the deregula- tion of Japa.n's economy, thus granting a conceivabte economic renaissance. Deputy ·IJLS. Trade Representative Rich- ard Fisher stated that in order for Japan to succeed in ending its long period (almost eight years}oofsluggish economic growth, it is importa11t for them to keep up with their end of the b:argain. Fisher s~aid, \The emphasis in this is to help Japan ttlrn its economy around and pull up its socks~ .. to do that, signit1cant deregu- lation is mamdatory.\ Prime Minister Obuchi responded to Fisher and President Clinton, exclaiming, \Our economy is showing an emerging sign of change for the better .. J am determined to ensure a successful revitalization of the J apa- neseeconomy, through overcoming with un- wavering resolve any obstacle we may en- counter in the process.\ Obuchi, in a sense, wants to work with the President and the United States, and Clinton applauded Obuchi 's character and dedication to .his duty as chief leader of Ja- pan. Afterall is said and done, however, Japan is not fully out of the loop. There is still a crisis which cannot simplybe whisked away after one meeting. Japan's growth, while promising, will take time- agradual process which will result in. more unemployment, more contempt along the way. · Simply put, according to Japan's minister of economic planning, Taichi Sakaiya, \Achieve growth in a timely and flexible man- ner.\ !he United States and Japan have had a long history together, frie11ds and foes alike. The meeting this week marks yet another collaboration offorces,asJapan and Obuchi look to America and Clinton for assistance- what will come of this, though, that is yet to be determined. UNDERGROUND UNDERGROUND Oiret.te~ by Emir Kusturica Cast: Mki Manojlovic, lazar Ristovski, Mlrjan.a.!lokovlc, S!avko Stimac, France!Sierbia, 1997. In Serbian with English subtitles. 167 mli'!s. Color. Rental: Apply. :NTERNATIONAL FIL FESTIVAL 7:30 P.M. Monday, May 3 SS 016 or 115 The- ·fJOO·pound gorilla of recent cinema, !his unruly behemoth has battledprepos polilical charges, encountered distributioll difficulties, won the Cannes Grand Pri; built wpa r~pulation as a visionary masterpiece. Underground Is the national ep notHlxis,ent nation. tracing the inglorious history of Yugoslavia through three wa 1941: lwo boozingl brawling buddies. the naive Blacky and the opportunistic Ma figlll lhe Nazis while lilling llleir pocke's and vying ft>r the v()IUJ)ttaous Natalija. Wt thi~s get loo hoi, they go underground, into a vast cellar packEd with refugees\ Ma4~() e:xptoits to manufacture contraband. 1961: Yugoslavia is in another war, n Col~. Marko is a national hero married t~ Nata1lja, but Slacky and the rest are stil s1avtng away in lhe cellar. duped by Marko into believing World War II has never - all audacious metaphor for the fraudulence, isolation, and stagnan~y of Tito's Ylfg()slavia. 1992: Yugoslavia no longer ~xists, bul it's still at war. Marko and Bla met~l for a final showdown amid the carnage of Bosnia. In Its finale~ Undergrom moV!es underwater, emerging into a heartbreakingly idyllic dreamworld which is ( remains of Yugoslavia. The style is grotesque, frenetic, and :comic, mixing horror praUaBs, a corrosive combinati()n*<>f Hieronymus Bosch and the Three Stooges. film's flamboyance and slapstick evoke Fellini and lester, bvt ~ven more approp tO!l\l!)arisons are to Pynchon's Gravity's Rainbow and Coppora·s Apocalypse N() sirnllarly immoderat~ wOJks !bat decline to tit the chaos of war into a tldy·packag· 11 Nad. passionat&t mordant, ferociously intelligent.. exhilarating.'' -Dave Kehr, New York Daily News.

Cabaret's Outside Cast Members by KimboerlyRohbacl< A&£ Editor For those ofyou whoha\ekept up with the ''\'Cabaret scandal,\ glancing thmqg;h some of the .ar- 'tides written 011 the subject one would think th.at the casting of outside students in a Union Col- lege produ cttion is inherently wrong. I have been worki11g with these outstandiing individuals from Skidmore andSUNY Albany. and I thought it mig!lt be nice to voice their opinions,and the opinions of th()se Union stu<lents wllo llave had an oppmt11nity to work. with them, and ha..ve gotten iv know them. I cauglnt \IP with two such students before rehearsal one day. The first talented yo11ng man I ·interviewed IW'a.:s David Albanese, who isajunioiatld atheater major at Skidmore. lie is playing orte of the lead male roles, the Emcee. First it should bte noted that David was contacted 'by the stage man- ager of the sh()W who krtew him r)fior to the aoclitions and was en- couraged to dteck out the audi- tion notice i11 the Metrolaod. Cabaret has :al ways beetl one of Albanese's fa..,orite shows. \When I saw the adc>[k.ruew I had to audi- tion\ sais Alb:anese. Skidmore al- ways has opem auditio11sfor all of their prod~c tions, there fore Albanese tllo-llght notlling <lf the fact that Unioll College was pro- ducing the pl-ay. •'At Skidmore we only llave two au<iitions for the whole year, in terms of maill stage productions. We do one big sit ow in the fall and one in the spring. We try to do a black b<Jx production and two or three W()rk.Shop pieces, but si11ce our department is roughly tltree for aH <JftlleiFshows, and they are always ope,11. I asked ])a-v·id how he felt about the in te;rcolle gi ate castin.g. He c omtesy Diane Sadak lJavid Alhanese poses for a picture ;011 ike .set of Cabaret times tile size of Union's it''s cliffi- cult to get cast in the exact show, in the ex2ct role, that you warut, or even c:ast at all.\ Skidmore fol- lows a stan<lard audition process said, \'hllink. it's wonderful. I have felt all :alo11g that the three major schodl~ i11 this area, (Sienna, Skidmore, a.nd Union), sho.uld be worki11g theatrically together.\ David said he was very impressed by not only the warm welcome he has received by ~he Union college students in the cast, but also by the motivatidn that Union stu- dents have! about theater. \Skidmore students are lazy. I can't believe that Onion students put on so many student-based pro- ductions. There are so many inde- pendent projects going on here. It's wonderful,\ he said. When asked about the directing style of Cabaret's own Diane / Sadak, Albanese said, \I love Diane. I've actually studied her directing style, I've studied under the same techniques. It's interest- ing what she's doing. She's ap- proaching the musical in the way that a serious drama is done- delv~ ing into character work.\ David is doing an extraordinary job with his portrayal of the Emcee. It is a part he has always been particu- larly fond uf. \He's a mysterious character.. . he can be taken so many ways,. it's really up to ~ctor interpretation. I am so thankful for this wonderful chance to ex- plore the possibilities.\ The cast of Cabaret has fallen in love with David. \He is hysteri- cal!\ says co.,star Karena Cronin. Albanese has undoubtedly brought new ;1nd exciting per:spec- tive into the Yulrnan. '\We cal) all learn so much from him. }Jis en- ergy, his ability.. He's a pleasl)re to watch,\ said Deric Harrington. Off stage David is a pleasure to know. He is delightful, kind, funny, and he brirtgs new life to all of our work. I personally believe that we are all fortunate to have been given achaoc.e to work with him, and for those who come to see him, you wilf'not be disappointed. He is a talent. Th:e same .can be said for Albanese'sco-star fFotn SUNY Al- bany, Gina Rlano, who is playing the female le.ad, Sally Bowels. She saw the ad for the audition in the Schenectady Gazette. She has taken a theater class here at Union, with Professor Barry K. Smith, and has proven beyond a shadow of a doubt that she belongs in this show. She says, \Ithinkit's fun ... I like working with the people. It's a good experience. The only nega- tivity I have encountered is what I have read in the paper.\ Gina loves Cabaret. She'shavinga great time playing an extremely challenging ' role. Most of the classes offered at SUNY for theater majors are fo- cused on more of the technical as- pects of performanc.e ... technical theater, theater history, play analy- sis, and acting, This has been a wonderful growing experience for Gina, and for the rest of the cast who benefits from her hard work. \I think that we are all learning from Gina. She brings a lot of ex- perience, a11d talent to the play, and a wonderflJJ.p_ersp~tive ab,p!Jt its content,\ said sophomore Col- leen Brown. Gina and David are pleasures both on and off the stage. It is too easy for us to accept the standarqs and visions created and restricted by our iron gates. Are we afraid of new ideas and insight? I Can't Believe I'm Not Butter by D~ric Harri11gton ~tajfWriter Well, let's jump right into the vir- tual M&M blll.g, of this cdumn for anotherweel<, a11dhopetha.twepull out a green one, shall we? First and foremost, /.(lck andJiUiscom- ing to the th·eater this weekend. Well, as it tur11s {JUt, these two crazy kids not only,~.Nentup a hilt, fetched a pail of water, and all that good stuff, but they a 1so took the time to write an ~utobiograplly about it, wait, no, appuently I 'rn wrong about that. S10rry. However, l -can g;uarantee you that this show vvill really give you yourmoney\s worthandmore. Yes, it's a free shi()Vt', but at the same time, I really think that it 'II make you feellike~ou should paytosee such top notch theater, so just send a check,10r just unmarked bills to, care ofthe ¥ulman theater, You want to know the real rea- son I wentt(} Union? I'll tell you, PEPSl!l!!!! As anothel'term is coming to a close, a lot 0of people are saying, \Hey we're ()n]yinthe si:ldlt week, stop it with aJI tbat 'we 'te almost done' crap . .,' Sprittgfest weekend is right around t:he comer, which brings to min<! visions of that awes<Jme band that'slteadlining, what's their name ~gain? But, along with that, ifl may(and I think I may, I mean, I said \mother may I plug Laundry .and 3o urbon '?\ An mother said, \you not\ bllti.sneaked out at night, put my pillow der the covers so it •vv\'\\ like I was tilere, and and promoted Laund and Bour~on anyw mentiC»n that Laundry Bourbo11 will also be on during Springfes weeke11d. I mean, if can't think of an else to <lo{or, if you're bored with,. Uhhh, \that\ band), go check ottt the show, it's so worth your time. Well, I haven't been to anycon- certs recently, so I can't really re- view an)' of those, but I have re- ceived a couple new cds recentl) Static-:X is one of those cds. fd tell yolt all sorts of wonderf J 1 things about it, but you don' t re• ally care. I mean, it's not your fault that yCJu don't like my music,. and it's n<Jt My fault I don't like yours, so why can't we live in musical peace!,ll\litlt ooneanother, eh? Sorry, I shouldn't mention \musical\ and \peac:e .. 'in th~ satne sentence here, shoul.d 1? If llll the \controversy\ hasn' i Ill ade it so you want to see Cabaret, {vvomen, look away, what I'm about to do is scrape the bot- tom 011: tlle gene pool in h()pes of ~ett:ag S.oll! ~ of the scum to float i .IV •hJIY } n J'.v aoout .r;;; ir c that the-re ~re over 20 beautiful girls ir the s:hcu\.71', (nK, now the womrn I J<' ' a.w. the ~u.y , 1 JC K a• '2/ r H one 1.1:-Jt.as ually hot single stud (Deri-: 1Jd'\1\'lto himself) OK, fine, t H' if a:re n 1 1 ~ ~· .v , : n 1 ,v 11 J' , comea::nc:l :see tltem too, blah, blah, blah. Is it j11st me, or are orange Tic Tac£ nCJtreally a mint'? I mean, I know it says right on the side of the container, \Orange Mint\ does anyone else find something disturbing about that? I mean, lets face it, no one asks for a orange Tic Tac if their breath is bad. These are the things that keep me up late into the wee hours of the night. Yeah, OK, it doesn't re- ly have much to do A&E, but these the questions of the peopleoftoday, like \how does throw out a Nirvana is currently ing rated all over the place as the band of the decade, well, ~·II be honest, I can't recall a <Jing e thing they've done in the past 3 or so years, (yeah, it's a low shot (no pun intended), but oh well). I mean, I can think of many other l;\n..tr deserving that award. How ctbout uhhhh, hmmm, man, the 90s aren't ex::actly great music years, eh? I mean, we all look back with fond times on the 80s, what are we going to remember from the 90s? I mean, when those great \not avail- able in stores\ albums start mak- ing 90s compilations, what's going to be on them? These, once again, are the questions of the young people oftoday, like \if a tree falls in the forest, and the only person there is a mime, and the tree kills him on impact, does anyone (be- sides fiiends and family of the mime, R.I.P., you will be missed, sniffle) really care? Well, I hate to end on such a stupid note, so l' m not going to. instead, I'll continue to write more pointlessness next week, because well, I know that I am Deric \the OK in your COKE of life\ Harrington, and that the masses demand more and more from me. I mean, I give and I give, what do you give me back? Nothing, that's OK, though, I don'twantanything fromyou (well, an E•mailatSiapyMcgee@aol.com wouldn't hurt), I mean, you have cooties. Anyway, I'm outofhere, so join me again next week; when we explore what really makes a fer- ret tick. So, until then remember, a fold- ing chair can only fold in one spot, trust me on that one, I have the scars to prove it. I am a moron, I need to write better articles. p J, 'i b

Jack and Jill Opens Today by Devaraj Pyne Contributing Writer This Thursday, a very S])eCial .pFoduction of a new .play entitled Jack ami Jill will open at the YulrnanTneater. The play, written by Jane Martin, debuted ficult times this couple goes through, the play makes one see that love is as much painful as it is joyous. The project was initiated by Eric Wisotzky, a juri ior theater major, who discovered the play while reading a book of plays from the 1996 Hum~na Festival. Almost a cu ......... '\J The cas(o{Jack and Jill on the set. in 1996 at the Humana Fesd\al of New American Plays in Louisville, Kentucky. It was the winner ()fthe 1997 American Theater Critics' As- sociation Play of the Year. llere at Unioll, Jack and Jill, directed by jtLniorChris Welch, will rutt from Thursday to Sunday, May 6-9 at S PM and the admission is free~ Jacfc and Jill is a very ffi()Ving play about the ups a11d dow11s of a collple in love. The play inv()lves only tlle two main characters, Jack and Jill, and also follr dressers/ stagehands Which assist. in cos- tllme chaages, set changes, and also act in some scenes. Jac:lt and Ji 11 are two people ill their thirties looking for love, and when they find it. they realize how difficult it can·l>e. As we watch the ofte!l dif- year later, Eric asked Chris Welch to directthe piece with Eric play- ing the part of Jack Eric and Chris then set out to find the perfect actress to play Jill and found her in junior Devon Ciampa. Having been so impressed with Devon's work in the play Metamorphosis this fall, Eric and Chris were de- lighted that 'Devon accepted the role. The project continued to im- prove as senior Liarn Joynt joined the project as assistant director and as a dresser. Finally, the re- mainder Of the dressers were rounded out with a talented bunch: freshman Greg Fox, sophomore Carrie Welch, and se- niar Mark Will. Junior Pakk Hui was also a great benefit to the show when he joined the group as stage manager, as was the assis- tant stage manager, junior Alex MiUitello. One of the great dreams at the beginning .of this project was to attend the HumanaFestival in Lou- isville, Kentucky where this play debuted. With the help of a gener- ous grant from the lEG, Chris, Eric, Limn, and Devon were able to at- tend the 19'>9 Humana Festival along with Y:lllman Theater techni .. ca:l director John Miller. The trip to Louisvilletallght everyone a gteat · deal about how brand new plays are being presented. Th.e group attended the festb;al in the middle of March ancl was able to see five plays in one weekend. Needless to say, the experience was invaluable. One of the exciting parts about the trip was learning moreabout the mysterious playwright of Jack and Jill, Jane Miutin. Jane Martin is just a pseudonym for an unknown playwright. It1sreportedthat only one person in the world truly knows the identity ef Jane Martin. That person is Jon Jory, the Pro- ducing Director <lfthe Actors The- ater of Lqu.isviHe, where the Humana Festival takes place. Jon Joty directs all of Jane Martin's plays, and we were fortunate enough to see his latest work as a director, a beautifu I piece entitled, Aloha Say the Pretty Girls. What we learned on this. trip is that the identity of Jane Mar:tin is so secre- tive that no one wants to talk about it. It is a forbidden topic of discus- sic~, which makes ,this play even more exciting. More good news came for the cast and crew of Jack and Jill, shortly afterthe trip to the Humana Festival. This ne'-Vs came in the form of a g~nerous grant from the IEF io pay for the expenses of the Romantic Favorites Courtesy ofthe Murrie Department ''Romantic Favorites\ is the title of tbe Union College Orchestra's Steinmetz Symposium C()ncert. Anastasie, Prokhorova '01 Vlill be the featured.soloist in Schumann's popular A minor Piano Concerto. For those of you who have never heard Anastasie play, she is a trained accompaniest and has per- formed with many Mountebanks late night Cabarets in addition to her perf()rrnance in the Murder Mystery last term. The concert begins with Mendelssohn's Midsummer Nighfs Dream Overture and con- cludes with his bright \Italian\ Symphony, Five .student settings of Schubert songs complete the program. Tile Mtrsic Department frequently sponsors concerts, but rarely do vve get to see a student pianist. Go s.upp{)rt Anastasie and all of her hard VJork. Come to enjoy a Springtime evening o.f music-and bring a friend, a paren~ a pet! Ftiday,(that's tomorrow) May7,at8:30 PM in Me- morial Chapel. You won't regret this! col.lrtesy Performio11g Ar1s Department Anastasie Proi<n~rova prepares for her concert in Memorial Chapel tomorrow evening. show. This grant was given to pay the expenses for the rights to the play, set, props, publicity, and any , other necessities to make the show take place. After receiving this grant, our troupe named itself SHOOT THE RABID DOG THE- ATERCOMPANY. A ton of work has been put into is the interaction between the stu- dents involved and Union staff member John Miller. As stated be- fore, John Miller is the Technical Director ofthe Yulman Theater, and he also went on the trip to Louis .. ville with the students. He was gen- erous enough to give up a great deal of his time and effort to create courtesy Jesse Berube Devon Ciampa and Eric Wisotzky in rehearsal. this project, considering that it be- gan back in January. Devon and Eric are doing a fine job in the lead- ing roles and have a great deal of chemistry together on stage. This play should definitely appeal to people on many levels. The issues of the joys and pains of love can be related to by almost anyone. The play is at times sad, at times comical, and always intense. The play is probably the most sex.ually \risque\ piece recently sltown at Union. It has a few physical scenes as well as some explicit dia- logue. Visually, the play is spec- tacular with the unique interplay between Jack and Jill, and also be- tween the dressers that invade the stage between almostevery scene. An exciting part about this piece a masterful lighting design for the show. John is a great talent in the area of I ighting, and Jack andJifl has been lucky enough to utilize his expertise to make the show even more visually impressive. After almost four months of work, Jack and Jill is ready to be pre- sented to the public. This play will be a part of the Steinmetz Sympo- sium, the first theater presentation in this important event in several years. Please come out to support this exciting work,performed, pro- duced, and designed by Union stu- dents. Again, it will appear in the Ac- tors Studio of the Y ulman Theater from Thursday to Sunday, May 6 to 9,.at 8 PM and there is no cost of admission. Are you a graduate with a. bachelor's degree in mathemat- ics, science or a relat- ed analytical field and a strong aca- demic record? Through the new Teaching Opportunity Progrom (TOP) Scholarships you can build the foundation of a career as an educator teaching in New York City's public schools, earn your master's degree, and guarantee a successful future for thousands of stu- dents. Apply to be a TOP Scholar~ and if selected you will receive the benefits listed llere. ....

Science' & 'technology Sc,ience & Technology Getting 'Ticked Off'' by Lyme Disease by Victoria Hargreaves Science and Tec:hnology Editor As long .pants a.re exchanged for shorts and boots are exchanged for sanCials, Union's green lawns be- come populated by unsuspecting vktims and suspecting enemies. The victim: the student. Tbe en- emy: the tick. These ticks, specifically of the genus lxoaes, ttansmit Lyme dis- ease, a bacterial infection. As the tick grows and. de-velops, 1lle bac- teria that infected it remain inside the tick. Througllout its life, the tick spreads the disease by attaching to more and more animals such as deer, dogs, and cattle. Once at- tached to the host, the tick inserts its mouth parts into the skin and begins to suck tile animal'sblood. As the tick beco111es engorged with its meal, its body grows. Ticks can attach to the human bocly any- where, but are most often f<>und in areas co'Vered with hair, such as the scalp. The disease was discovered in 1975 in Lyme, Connecticut alter two mothers questioned doctors why there were unu\Sually high rates of children diag;n()sed with arthritis. Since 1975, the number of reported cases has sky rocketed, making Lyme disease the second:.. fastest fected person can experience one mark tile second stage ef the dis- growing disease in the United or more ofthefollowing;symptoms: ease and include artbritis of the States. There were 4<) l reported fatigue, fever, headache, muscle joints, partial paralysis ofthe facial cases in 1982 and apprt;>ximately and joint pain, and a rash called muscles on ()Be side., meningitis, 12,800casesin 1997. erthyeroa migrans. Erthyema andirregularlleartrhythms.Rarely, Although Lyme disease plagues migrans is a red, circular rash that Lyme disease results in death. the entire nation, it is Becausetbesesymp- most commun in the terns are very simihtr to northeast, the north... tbose of other common central states, and illnesses and diseases, the West Coast. Lyme disease is often Cases of the disease misdiagnosed. It is have been reported in rn<lst often confused 4 7 states in the >vvith viral infects such United States and in as mononucleosis, ar- many countries tnritis, and multiple around the world. . · sc;}e.tosis. On average, Early detection patients see five doc• significantly de- · t()rsheforegettingcor- creases one~s · rectly diagnosed. chances of feeling the:· Although Lyme dis· effects of the tick's · ease is not curable, it is bite. Because the tick · · treatable with antibiot- transmits the infec,.. ics administered by a tion after two days of'-----------------.....; ___ ......;;;...~ physician. These drugs feeding on thehost's blood, if the usually appears between several are usually co!lsumedorally, but in tick is removed within two days days and one month after the ini- more seri-ous C'3ses, it can be taken after the initial bite, it ·is unlikely tial bite. Over time, the rash usu- intravenottsly. Most patients re- the person will devel<lp Lyme dis- ally becomes a larger circle and the spond positi-vely to these antibiot- ease. However, more than half of redness at the center may lessen, ics. As with many other diseases, infected people do not remember which gives the rash its character- the best foTm cf protection is pre- when the initial bite took place. istic bulls-eye appeamnce. Iftreat- vention, by avoiding areas known When the tick goes unrecog- mentis notadministered or is inef- to be high in ticks, covering one- nized or is removed after it has fective, several more serious symp- self up especially aroundtheankles, transmitted the bacteria, an in- toms may arise. These symptoms spraying oneself with insect repel- lent, and inspectin,g oneself fQr ticks when one returns from out- side. After finding a tick attached to one's body, one should inspect the tick and remove it with twee- zers as close to the skin surface .as possible, being careful not to crush the tick's body, and rem~ve the tick slowly and st~adily. After renioval, one should consult a physician irilmediately. There ·has been no documented evidence of Lyme disease triU]s- mission through. blood transfu .. sions, blood or sexual contact, or from domesticated animals or lnos- quitoes. Although domesticated caL and dogs often carry ticks into the home, there has been no proef that pet owners have higher inci- dences of Lyme disea~e. Check- ing pets. forticks can prevent ticks · from entering the house environ- ment and maintain the health of the pet. Sources: http://www .acopline.org/lyme/ patient/diag;nosis,htm http~//www .cdc.gov/ncidod/dis- eases/lyme/lyme.htm http://www. ex ecpc.com/ ~jbehnke/page2.html http://www .ziplinknet/~jcwbeel/ lymedisease.htm I s·pammed Lately? Email for Fun by Steve Ayers StaffWriter limiting the extentt() which one's anti:\spamming legislation. ln Cali- email address is circulated over fomia, a law would allow network the Internet. Many software pro- adm.inistrators to collect up to Anyorte who has tried to access grams and free on line services re- $25,000 ofdamagef()reachdaythat a web site fro111 campus at lunch- quire users to give an email ad- their network is affected by Spam. time knows the true meaning of dress during registration. Giving Although currently Spam is patience. Heavy use oflnte:met re- a false email address or setting up mainly a nuisance, it has the po- sources si()WS. the Uniort College a separate email address exclu- tential for serious harm. In August network to a snail's pace. Much of sively for spam can help to avoid of1998, the web site·ofBeachCom- this is caused by email, and much flooding your real account. munications group was of this ernail is \spam\ orunsolic- Once you have been \tsunamied\ with thousands of ited Email (USE). This isaworld- \spammed the best way tore- Email messages, causing it to wide problem, consisting of 30% spond is to contact your system crash. The spread of the Melissa of email messages on the Internet. administrator, mthe administrator virus was accelerated when it in- Spam is the Internet version of of the system whe:re the message fected the computers of companies junk mail, C()rnposed mainly of an- was sent from. Iftbe message is a which regularly sent Spam. This noyingor obscene advertisements, threat, or if it contains information raised a concern that in the future lucrative marketing schemes, and on illegal business plans, legal marketers could actually use Email chain letters. Its name is thought authorities can aid in tracking viruses as a tool t() spread adver- to refer to a Monty Pyth()n sketch; down the culprit. Replying to a tisements. a group of 'Vikings.' redundant message is one ofthe worst things Spam may have been used as a chant of\Spam\ is a meiaphorfor you can do. This Jets the sender tool of warfare by the Serbs in Yu- the monotonous flow of meaning- know that there is actually a live goslavia. The NATO web server less email messages. body at the email address, making was temporarily disabled when Spam has been attractive to it a ho,t comm()dity which can be thousands of Emails, all originat- shady entrepreneurs because it sold to other marketers. ing from the \.yu\ domain, caused costs littlet() <Jreate and it can reach Some groups have formed to it to crash. The Patuxent River Na- a wide range of people. As Execu- prevent the sprea<l of spam. The val Air Station in S6uthem Mary- tive Director ofComputer Services Coalition Against Unsolicited land was tsunamied with thou- David V. Cossey stated, \It's easier Commercial Email (CA UCE) is a sands ofEmaHs titled \SERBIA IS than jttnk rnai1 because it doesn't grassroots group <levoted to edu- HERE'? in an unsuccessful attempt cost them.'\' The cost is borne eating consumers on Spam ana tocrashtheirservet. Serbs may also mainly by the recipients, and at advocating for legislation to stop have relied on Spam for a public Unionthesecostscantal<ethefonn it. Their web site at http:// propaganda campaign, mailing of slower service and the waste of www.cauce.com offers helpful tips thousands of Em ails to the ad- costly disk andbackupdrivespace. on avoiding the TI()tice of email dresses of Americans with the Recipients have little recourse solicitors. Utflitiesareavailable at hope of undermining public sup- when they are \spamrned.\ Many http://www.junk.busters.com to port. of the addresses used are fake or avoid spam. With each new technology that. temporary. Users on S()me online Senator Murkowski (R) of isdeveloped;unforeseenoutcomes services can generate aliases and Alaska and Torticelli (D}ofNew result. When the Internet was first then delete them, and web mail ser- Jersey have proposed a measure developed, few probably envi- vices are a con'Venient tool for known as The ln.box Privacy Act sioned that a large part of it would anonymous email. Til is makes it (S. 759), which would make many eventually be devoted to illicitac- difficult tolnckdown the origin of fonns ofspam illegal. Since many tivities. this does not mean that these emails. residents of Alaska rely on long- we should shy from modem tecll- Pre\ention is the best medicine distance dial-up service for Email; no logy, but in a world where your · when it comes to spamrning. Keep- the cost to resi<lents is greater. identity is such a hot commodity, it ing offthe.~pamnwrs r,aQ~r.IP~Clll.S* ~ Sttlte~ jlpy(l itl§Q _b,?gl!n. to~ qqop1 • JlJI!k.e~? ~~n.s~ !q \>~ Sl:lU~i9U!!, .••. byD!lniel Kelmanovich Staff Writer Did you ever feel like playing a game of scrabble or monopoly against some<Jne but couldn't find a player? .But everyone always checks their email, ·right? Wel1 now there is a new twist for those email checking fanatics. Email games have started popping up on the Internet and they are yet another way to use email for fun.· On~mf the chief makers of email games that actually resemble board games is 1-Iasbr.o Interactive. They offer email games ranging from scrabble~ chess, and checkers to monopoly, backgammon and battle- ship. Eacll of these games has its own graphical playing board that resembles the real boa~ds used in the games. Tile rules of each game are the same as the board games. Playing ta:kes only a few seconds on .a computer and therefore makes the game-play quick. The g;arnes are fun and easy to setup and use. The person who bu.ys the pr<>gram can start a new game. TlJi$ sends an email message ' ' to the desired player (whoever you knqw and want to play with) to download a I imited version of the software. The person sets up the program and is then ready to play. The moves on each game .are sent through email to the Hasbro host server which: then.redirects.tlie mail tb the prpper recipient. The easiest way to phy the game is to use email software like Eudora, Outlook, or Netscape mail to read the game emails and quickly click on the file attach- ments that tell the game what moves are being performed. The setupoftltegame isquickandplay- ing is as fast as writing email to a friend. The advantage of the~;e email games is that they require little time, can be played across the world, and resemble actual board games. These games can also be playedsimultaneouslywith differ· ent pl11yers, adding to the fun. The Hasbro games can be found at http://email.games.com/egg/. Other email games that are less graphical are available but they still provide entertainment. • '4

*ANNOUNCEMENT** The Block U Award Dinner will be held Wednesday,May 19, 1999 at e Ramada Inn, Schenectady -· RITE AID- Photo Processing Go to RITE AID for All of Your PhotoN eeds Athletes MUST pick up your RITE AID is located on ickets at the Alumni Gym by Van Franken Ave May 12 ' 1999 (518) 382-3304 No one will be admit- ted without a ticket We are looking f~r energ~tic students to serve as tutors. Employment applicatlcns are now available for the 1999 - 2000 Academic Year All majors are encouraged to apply. Deadline for submission i:s Wednesday, May 12 Applications can be picked up at The Acad~mic Opportullity Program Office Bailey Hall, ·Room 101 . Facuity nominations are strongly desired. For more informat~<»rl. please . c::o11tact: 388:-&11·5 TAKE A SHOT M.eftiAgitls :DnmuRizotlo\ For' Cell~ StudeW\t:S Wednesday May 12th Walk-in immunizations are available 11:00 am -7:00 pm Hale House Meningococcal meningitis is an infection that starts quickly arid affects the brain and spinal cord leadirg to s-;mptoms such as fligh fever, headache, stiff neck Clnd ncwsea.lt cQn be fatal in 10 perett1t of wes. According to CI>C. outb.feaks of nMningitis h<tve increc:tSed in recent yec1rs, especiolly in school 4nd campus settings. Infection is spread through direct contut or airborne dropl~ts (coughing, sneezing). THE AMERICAN cou.e;E HEALlH ASSOCIA110N ~MMENt>S THAT COI.LEGE STUDENTS VNDER A&E 30 CONSIDER VAcaNAliON TO REDUCE THEIR RISK FOR POTEN'l'lAU.V FAT At.. MENINGOCOCCAl.. I>ISEASE. Cost: $75 (Billed 1o student Bl.lflar Account·· only • a valid student 10, or paid by CMh, cl'leek or etedit carci.} QtiHUolls call: 1.f17+V~ESS orvlsltthe following wtb site WWW.VACCESS.COM

\'' . ·- ~ ~· <tron.cnr~ie:ttsis • May 6, 1999 • Pa.ge 18 Elections The 1999 Student Forum Student Forum President Greg Auerbach MikeWinn Good tnt)ming Union College! It is Thurs- day momillg. You are about to vote for your next Stude~t Forum President. You are now reading abo11t the candidates, trying to de- cide wbom to vote for. When you're don~ reading this; hopefully your decision will be easier. Here is my story. To Union's Students: compromise, they showed no willingness to · Union is on the brin.k ·of something amazm cooperate. To make a Ion~ story short, it . ing. Spring has once again shown us the didn't take the administration long before • beauty of this school and has opened our they got what they wanted, at the expense eyes to .a bin <lfendless pessibilities. For ofover 2000 students. . . the last three years, lhave appliedmyself in Most recently, I tried to combat the ad- • many differentways on this campus. I have ministrative bullying by serving on the Stu- :, acted and produced plays; I have been an dent Conduct Committee. This was the rud- . RA; I have managed Union's ski team. In est awaking yet. Here I learned that we, the , being a part .of all of these things, I have studer:Jts, are merely wind()w dressings. It · realized two important things: first, Union seems as if no matter what we as a student • students have an incredible ability to erase committee desire, if it is not consistent with .. the word impossible from the dictionary; what the administration wants, it simply second, this institution grants us a clean doesn't happen. slate leaving with the right to build and cre- I have decided I must mn for Student Fo- . ate. So what isthe so ~UTiazing future that 1 talk about? It' sone. where students fully realize their abilities and power. My only promise is that as President, I hope to hatnes~ that feeling of endless capability and catalyze greatness within the student body. I be- lieve that my three years of experience on the Student Forum has given me the to<Jls t() create an efficient organization that will ,act as an important dynamic in the Union. com-· munity. Most of all, I believethat my experi'- ence with. students will propel me to help students make the impossible disappear. MikeWinn I arrived at Union with big aspirations f()r student p()tit:ics and couldn't wait to get il'l· volved.. 1 ran for class representative as a freshmana.nd was elected as Vice-President of the Classof2000. I was excited; un fortl!· nately, as my time on Stu ::lent Forum dissi· pated, so did my fire to be a leader on this campus. :Ji'hy, you ask? As time went on, I started torealizehow little of a say tile stu· dents had !()El this campus. It was as if tl'le only pul\)Jose for a Student Forum was so that the administration could say, \See we listen to wh:at the students say.\ Perhaps they do listen, but they sure don't do an:Y· thing we st.~ggest. They don't want to com.· promis-:. l have seen this first-hand, tim.e and time ~ain. rum President. I have considered it for the past two years, and finally, after everything , went down with the condllct committee, I realized that ifl wanted to get anything done, I had to get to the heart of the matter. I'm not promising you dramatic change. I'm not going to shower you (or the administration) . with flowery rhetoric. l' m not going t() pushed over and convinced to .do something that the students do not want. But, I do prom- ise you this ... I will try and fight for all stu- dents until the very end, and more impor- tantly, 1 won't be a \tool\ ofth~ administra- tion! l will be there for all the students of this school. It is time for all ofus to have a VOTE TO'DAY Afterrnytime on Student Forum, I decided to try other outlets to get things done on campus. lhecame involved in the lFC (In- ternal Fraternity COUf!~il). I was elected 1() the executive board as Treasurer. I soo11 learned tll.at the administration gives them the \run uound\ as well. This came abc.ut when ''SoJlhomore Rush\ was the big isslle, and, at first, it appeared as if they were ready to listelt to us. However, when we tried to The Futur:e o:f U . s·· . nron ·······e 7 gtns real say in what goes on here. Vote Auerbach '99. Thank you. . h ·y wrt .. · ..•... ·ou. Vice President o Administration D,avid Gruner Christy W eafer He!lo,nnyname is David Gruner and I am a Dear Members of the S1udent Body, candidate: for Vice President for Adm inistra- Hello, my name is Christy Weafer. For tion. As VIe approach the new Millennium, We can achieve great things if we work those of you that do not kn<Jw me, you may we nee<! someone with a commitment to together, as a Student Body, but also with at least recognize my name and face from maintain Union's traditions but to fa~e cotl- the college administratiotl, the faculty and · · previous elections. Th_is is my third and fi- fidently tlle realities that confront us as we the community. We are all in this together. . nal election that I will have participated in at appr()ach 2:000. 1 believe that I am the p~r- Take security, for example. Keys have been Union. Previously, I have run as Sopho- son to leacl the student body in this direc- lost, we've noted trespassers on campus, · more Class Representative, and Junior tion. there is a lack of parking spaces and there is Trustee. A leader serves others, focusing on gu.icl- consideration of a revamping of the escort Unfortunately, I was not advantageous ing ratllertllan ruling. A leader looks at ()111- service system. \\:'flat sh<Juld we do? No enough to win in the past. But as they say, ers as pa:rt of a team, not as subordinates. one wants to wall off the college from third times a charm, so llere I am running The very nature of the word \lead sug- Schenectady, but we do have to insure per- again, this time as Vice President of Admin- gests learning, educating, appreciating, and sonal security. We need a debate on this istration. I am not going to preach to you developing. 1 believe I have all these cllar· issue, a thorough sharing of ideas from all how great of candidate I til ink I am because acteristjc;s and will be able to successft.Jily interested parties. There are other issues, I know my opponent is every bit as qualified bring Ollf diverse student community to- too, but the key message is that we have to as myself for the position. However, I do gether. resolve these questions togethet. want you to realize how dedicated I am to Witb tllree years at Union almost behind I came to Union in 19Ci6 and I have thrived Union College. Honestly, how many people me, my reoord shows a cornmitmenttoa wide over the past three years, and 1 know that do you know that has run in two elections, range of activities both on and offcam()US· many of_you have, too. Ail of us wantto see has been defeated, and tuns again (other one being that I am currently President of that the things that makes Union attractive than Richard Nixon of course)? Anyway, Sigma C11L Running parallel, a few moaths to us continue, but in the last few years the the · that I atn to make is that l really would like to malce a difference in the Union community. I am a stubborn, persevering, and hardworking person. As you can see I am just not wilLing to take no for an answer. I have a lot of ideas and am more than willing to listen to yours. I am very objective and will conscientiously evaluate any club proposals, and/or ree:valu- ate c.lubs that you may have concerns about. 1 firinly believe that all clubs and or- ganizations have the right to be treated equally and fairly and will do my be$1 to help accomplish these goals. I prorn i~e to work in conjunction with the President and Student Forum to help make 2000 a year to remember. If given the chance I know that I can make a djfference. Please, when you vote on Thursday and you see the name Christy Weafer ~n tile ballot remember these three things: vision, .. u .. , .. ., .. , and inte:gn1~ ' . ago, I ran for Class of2000 Representative/ environment has changed. We must adapt VP ofFili1Elnce-unsuccessfully. But lam not to this process and 1 want to be involved in dismayed and now I wish to run again. My this process in making tllese changes for a attit11de is positive and that is the key to better Union. I want to be your voice of · illt1ttcaroiettsis leadership-to continue to push forward. leadership in this process. I am i11terested in the issues that aris() at I thank the entire U11ion community for Un i<Jrt, V't'ltether it be the Seward Place revi- the atmosphere of encotnagement and op- talization or Union's own dance program. portunity to be involved in this electoral pr<>- Po 1itics and government are an importa.nt cess and I thank you for your consideration. part of my life and I want to be seen and VoteforDavidGruneron May6andgiveme hearc:l. As Vice President for Administra- the privilege of serving you as Vice Presi- tion, 1 will make sure that your voices 011 dent for Administration. You won't be dis- these issues are also seen and '11e~rcf. ' -' ·. · ~ · ap~einteii: · · ·-: ~· .- · ·. : · · · : ::- : : · : : ~ :- ·: :' ~ . . The paper is looking for nevv vvriters and editors for this, year, and next. Join our teatn and co1ne to a 1neeting tonight at 6:00 PM in- rootn 303. -

a a g .g lS s. ly J- lS r- :d to to ld to ti ld he ~n, - ElettiOns ClL.oncn:rMrnsb.t • May 6, 1999 • Page 19 Elections VoteToda ''' ••• - Junior Trustee Jennifer Knarich · Erin Aloan Hello, My name is JenniferEfuarich and I am ru:nn.ing for Vice President for Finance. As I head into my fourth yearat Union Colo- lege, I am eager to put the time and effort into helping the student body as a whole. One. way that I could accorniJlish this is through a position such as Vice President for Finance. l believe the Cll!llpus would greatly benefit from my knowledge and ex- perience ifelected to this positicn. My name is Erin Aloan and I am running f()r Junior Trustee. Representing the needs There are several issuess11rrounding the • anddesire:s of the student body will be my financial situation on tJniotl College~ s <:am· )porimary concern on the Board of Trustees. pus. One concern is the allocation offumls Two years of involvement in student gov- tothe many campusclui:Js,committees,and ~emment have led me to realize that students o11ganizations. From wi:Iiltl c~u1 discem,rnarty a.tUnion need an outlet for expressing their of these groups ~·eUeve tl1ey are ·. wishes. For this reason, I want to be your underrepresented in re:gar<ds to ()btainillg : Junior Tru.stee. I will enthusiastically be the available funds. I.f I a!l1l elef;ted toth is ]lOSi- . • liaison between the student body and the tion, .[ will make sure tllese issues are prop· , Board. The student body's opinions about erly addressed. Thereare \Ways t() alloc.ate . prominent issues on campus are extremely funds, keep allthese groups ha,ppy, .and keep important to me. Such issues include in- an account of over $tOCJ,OOO fin!lncially .. creasing and improving housing options (in- stable. 1 am aware ofilo\' essenti.al itisto ·. eluding tile Seward properties), increasing keep all financial oi:Dli.gatiorts runni11g . fUnding for social altematives, making the smoothly whether it is f~r an organization, ·. transition ofthe Greeksystem as smooth as or the campus as awh()le. ' possible for the entire campus, continuing An<>ther asset that l.cl>uld 'bring fo:rth is · tc:> raise awareness of multicultural issues, my ability to work well '\Vith others. l am and preserving the trimester system. objective and take all ]Jerspec:tives illtl> c<Jn- For the past two years, I have served on sideration. Hencefortll; witllmykn~wleqge the Stude.nt Forum as a class representa- and experience along wvi11t my team w<>rk tive. I am the currentPresident of the Sopho- skills, I am a suitable choic1:: for VicePresi- rnore class. My involvement with the Stu- dent Forum has led me to seek out other positions in which I have served the needs of the students, often on studellt-faculty committees. One such committee is the Stu- dent Affairs Council (SAC). These leader- ship positions have given me the opportu- nity to interact with a variety of people with different interests and agendas. I have also become more comfortable ex- pressing the opinions of the students on committees dominated by faculty and ad- ministrators. In addition, I am a Program Assistant in Student Activities, responsible for the weekly programming of social alternatives on campus. This position hashelpedme to gain a .greater understanding of the impor- tance of social alternatives. Withyourvote this Thursday, I can continue to represent the students of Union College. On May 6 111 , please show your st!pport and vote Erin A loan for Junior Trustee!! Since ,[ have been at Union. I have taken on several responsibilities within certai11 clubs and org1:1nizations. 1 have been the Treasurer for the Sigma Delta. Tau Sorority for tile past two years and cl!rrently serve as Vice-President With the ~nowledge that I' have obtained from working within finan- c:ial atmospheres, I have been quite success- ful in allocating as well as sav~ngfunds. It is not easy to keep financial obliga.tions stable, hut the rewards of this greatly outweighs the time and effort I may ha-ve lost in the process. I believe I have tlu eonfidence and persistence to .successflllly fulfill the responsibilities of this positi<Jn. Addition- ally, 1 am certainly,qualified in handling fi- nancial transactions as well as helping oth- ers succeed financially. dent .for Finance~ Please keep aU <>ft11is in. mind while voting on Tli. u~<Jay, May6, 1999~ If you vote for me, JenKnarich, I ccanprom- ise thatyou wiU not be disappoi11ted. Alen Gershkovich For those of you, voting this Thursday my name is ALEN GERSHKOVICH and I Brian Roache · ._.;tm.runni!lg fo~the positi()nof Junior Trustee. ,J liave served on student government for be eKtremely valuab)e,ifl am elected 'fP()f the past two years, first as the President of My name is Brian Roache and I'm run- ning for Vice-President ofFinMce to the Stu- dent Forum. The VP of Finance has one ()f the most important roles in tile Student Fo- rutn. The VP of Finance, asd1air of the fi- j nance committee is responsible for manag- ing the $400,00(} student act:ivities budget for the more than '70 clubs an<i ()rganizations on. campus. This is not a position where one can walk into it and learn as they go. E:xperience is essential to make sure !hat the money is managed properly. I have that experience. I sat on the finance committee my sophomore yearvvhere mis- management from th~ previous year pro- dllced a very tight budget. The< skills I learned from serving on that committee will prove to Finance. _ my class and now as a Finance Rep. I have also served (ln tile Stude11t Forum · One ofthemain reasons that I amnmning for the past two years11s the VP <JfCampus · for this position is because I really don't Life. My experience on the Stude11t Forum feel that the opinions of students are taken has taught me all of tl1e iilner \Y()rkin~s ef as seriously as they sh()uld be on this cam- the Student Activitie:.sotlice. I have had the opportlln ity to participate in budget allocation ooeetings wllere club budgets are decidedeyery sj>ring. My ex(le- rience on the financ:e committee and as a voting member.oftheStlldent F<Jrum male me the most qualifiedcalldidate intberace. I would strongly encollrage you t() C()me out and vote today. Every positi()n in this election is of great i111po.rtance t() ciai ly life here atUnion. Make yolll·voicehe~Ud. Vote experience, vote Rollclile for VP ofF·inance:. •Jon Lemle I could ramble on forever about the posi- • ti()n of Junior Trustee and why it is impor· tant, but I will sum it up in one sentence. • The Student Trustees are our voice into the · true decision making body of Union Col- __ ......, .................... _ ...... ___ ,_ ________ ........., ___ .._ _____ .......... _ lege. After speaking with many ofy<Ju over Junior Trustee ... continue Steve Shuler 1 want to be your Trustee. You may have seen my mlltthbooks, here is whatl am about. Union is an amazing place and I want it to be the best it can be. I have experience with student govern• ment as the sophomore class secretary/trea- sure; as a student forum member, and as a memberofthestudent finance committee;-[ kno-w the game. l also kn()\v what we all want from Union,. a better quality of life.- There are several things that .iftixed up wotdd make all of our lives here a li-ttle better. • Cable television in dorm rooms • V a.ldine at local businesses • Reform dining services .•. better food, and the option ofa total Valdine meal plan • Fix the engineeri11g track ... more,credit. for 20 hr labs • .Put class and te>:t b<lok ·infonnation ()fl the Union web site .•. on line registration • Improve our caiU pus safety ... rn.()Fe es- cort vans .r These are six of tile: m!ljor ~~fl!i,t)r oflife issues that face stude:nts. I will f!lke these issues all the way to the- tcp~ try a11d im- prove our campus, a11d rnak<: o\lr lives at Uni<Jn better. Thank you, Steve Schuler tile past year, I realize you do not care who affects change, but are instead concerned withjustgettingthingsdone. There are many pressing issues amon~st the student body, I will take them seriously and continue to be in tune to your changi11g needs. One ofthe more pressing issues seems to be the Common Lunch Hour. For the past two year.s we have tried to resolve the long lunch 1in:es, the lack of table space, and in- .convenient scheduling of classes by taking the issue of the common lunch hour back to those who made it, the faculty and school a-dministration. Over the past year in stu- dent government I have helped spearhead a movement to abolish the Common Lunch Hour, but the faculty responsible were un- willing to compromise in a reasonable ma.Il- ller. It is time to take this to the next level, to the Board of Trustees. and I am the person t() do it. While the initiative on Seward Place is an excellent idea, especially in terms of improv- ing the surrounding neighborhoods around Union, we must not f<>rget to focus on the .\ pus. It is my as a juniCJr trustee to make sure that the interests of stt~dents are kept in mind when important votes arise. I will also work hard to make sure the stu- dent are kept informed of ALL administra- tive decisions in a timely manner. So please come out and vote for Alen G. existing state of the College, and what the existing problems are. For instctn~e, the cur- rent condition of dorms, classrc<Jms, ath- letic facilities, and the Campus Center seem to have become lost to this new plan. When in fact these are the facilities fhat when grouped together we spend nearly all of our time. The trustees are invited to campus as a group three times a year. As a member of the Board, I can provide the insightof a typi- cal student, whc is involved in a wide array of campus activities since the start ()f my freshman year. · I am currently Vice-President of the Sopho- more class, Co-Chair of the Concert Com- mittee, appointee to the Pledging Reforma- tion Committee of the U2K committee, and bartend at Chet' s. My in-depth J)ast experi- ence and involvement, coupled with my com- mitment to the student body mrtke me the most qualified to fill this position. I have the desire and the dedication to make something special out ofth.is position. I will redefine the meaning of student input and student voice on campus. Students wi1l no longer feel like their opinions are n<>t taken seri- ously. Vote Jon Lem lefor Jnni(JI' Tr11stee VOTElU ·v·· ·0· · ·T· · .:EUI .... ·•· VOTEIH VOTElH VOTEill .•. '·voTElll VOTEHl

Student Forum Elections Vice President of Campus Life . ., JJ\~t Paul Stewart-Stand Hello, my name is Paul Stewart-Stand and I am running for the position of Vice Presi- dent For Campus Life. The student activities committee has done an impressivejob over the last several years, and l plan to continue working with them so as to establish an even stronger social envi- ronment on campus into the next ct:ntury. Over the last three years I have partici- pated in many of the activities that Union has to offer. I am currently serving as the Social Chair of the Sigma Chi Fratemity and this experience has alloweu me to exerciese the responsibility and organization ski.tls needed to plan, coordinate, and execute so~ cial events. I believe this experience comple- mented with my enthusiasm for the position and my ability to work effectively with the student activities commitee, the administra- tion and student body as a whole, will pro- vide for a truely successful social atmosphere at Union. I plan to bring mote ideas that will both diversify interests and unify the campus in what i feel should be a greater spirit and participation in our campus events. I will endeavor to work with the numerous cam- pus. clubs and organization so as to make events even more appealing· ·in retrospect, events that will be of emm inent importance; hence, will lead the list of social priorities on campus. I would like to extend my thanks to the entire college community for the opportu- nity given to me in running forthis position. Please vote on May 6 for Paul Stewart-Stand. I look forward to serving you as the Vice President for Campus Life. VP of Multi-Cultural Affiars F<Jr many of you reading this, it is the first time that we have met, so in attempt to intro- duce myself, I will start with hello. Secondly I will give some backgmund information abO<ut myself. lam a member of the sopho- more class, I live in Boston, I like long walks on the beach .... Essentially, this is an op- portunity for those of you whodo not know me, to put a face to a name, and to get to kn()w a little bit about me, Yet, I do not want to f(i)Uow a political outline, rather I would like to make this short, and candid. This is the first time that I am running for office, VP ofCampus Life, but I do have experience throughout the school. I am a member of IFC, Chets, and I have done mostofthe pub- licity in terms ofChets and the Greek sys- tem. The fact of the matter is that lam young, ambitious, am:lhave the drive to make the campus I ife at Union more enjoyable from a student, not administrative, point ·of view. Brian Roach has bee11 VPofCampus Life for the past two yeats, and he was happy to hear that I was interested, to follow in his path. I am not someone who sits around and lets things just .happen to them, 1 am someone who neerls to feel a part of the decision making process, and in that right someone Who does not let their opinion go unheard. Thank you for taking the time to getto know me.aHttlebetter, hopefully I will be able to representthe campus as a whole, and make a difference. Matthew Smith We sfi.ip book;§ Debbie Pellish to Moms t£vergwliere! Hi. My name is Debbie Pellish and I'm running for VP of Multi-cultural Affairs. As VP of Multi-cultural Affairs, I hope to be~ cornea liaison for the multi-cultural groups on Union•s campus. As we move into the 21st century, the cultures of the world are becoming greatly connected as the world is becoming a smaller place. Among our tiny microcosm of a world at Union College, our campus needs to continue expanding its knowledge about the world, its cultures and people. We can fulfill this necessity through our learning of the different cultures repre- sented ampng our multi-cultural groups. lf elected as VP ofMulti-cultural Affairs, I in- tend on supporting this environment, and becoming an aid for each multi-cultural group to continue educating each other, as well as the college community of their rituals, ideas; · and beliefs. My goals in this position are to establish cultural festivals in which the multi- cultural groups can display their cultures to the campus community, and share their tra- ditions. As an active student on this campus, I have the knowledge and resources to ac- complish my goals and to help the multi- cultural groups ofUnion College t<> success- fu11y continue fulfilling their individual goals, • as well as representing them as an active · and essential componentofthis college. So, this Thursday, May 6, please show your . support and vote Debbie Pellish for VP of Multi-cultural Affairs. Oionrnrltiettsis Subscriptions Motnlr's 'Day is May 9 Keep up with current events at Union College with a Subscription to Concordiensis. The paper is mailed on a weekly basis, eight times a term. Fill out the form below, and return it to the address shown. ·------------------~~----~------~---~------· I arunrodrim~is I ~ Box2577, Uni()n College I 1 807 Union Street 1 1 Schenectady, NY 12308-3145 1 I I ~ I would like to buy a subscriptions for One Year ($40) ~ I ~~~~~ I I I I Name Phone ( ) I I I I I 1 Address 1 I Please include a checf<_ for the subscription amount and make checks payable to ~nion College. I ~--------------------------~---------------·

Women's Lax Going to NCAA Tourney by David Brooks Editor-in-Chief Withplayofffeverin the air., the Dt~tchwomen hosted the opening round of the New York State Women's CoHegiate Athletic As- s<Jciation championship .. The Saints of St. Lawrence traveled to Frank Bailey Field in hopes of re- venging their 12-6 loss to Union just two weeks earlier. Yet the Dlltchwomen saw things differ- ently. Union scored first off a · Stephailie Maycheck goal, but St. Lawrence responded quickly, tying the game at one. Union proceeded l>y going ori a6~() rup to take a 7-1 lead. Union never looked back. \We were well rested and confi- dent,\ said senior captain Sarah Moss. At the half, Uni<Jn lead, 9- 3. Second half; different half, same . story. The Dutchwomen dllpli- catedtheir scorillg in the first half and ended the game with a deci- sive 18-4 victory. Said Moss, \Everything. just ·clicked. They couldn't do any- tiling to stop us.'' Moss led. the scoring attack with six goals, the second time this season she com- pleted these feet. Senior Sboko Okado had three goals, while jun~ iors Abby Harris, Sam Ryall, and .sophomore Lauren Dill each had a pair of goals. Senior goaltender Maura Woessner had seven saves to match seven ground balls she picked up. Okado won the first 18 face-offs before ending the day with 21-3 advantage. Said Coach Linda Bevelander, \They wanted it more than anything. They never gave up, and showed no mercy.\ The next stop for Union was Nazareth College, the site of the semis and final game for the NYSW AA championship. \The season is so intense, rest is key. They really ne~ded the break,\ said Bevelander. Union faced ·off against second-.ranked Cortland. \They were definitely one of the best teams we played this year,\ said RyalL With 20:08 tQ go in the half,. Union found themselves in an uri- familiar spot: losing. They were down 4-3 before going 011 6-0 run to hold a 9-41ead With 16: lO to go in the game. '¥ll~y~,~~<!-§.,~4-at.t1i¢,._ break, and wa~edaway,witb J.6;.;f2' victory. \Onc~wegototirmom.en .. ·. tum, we couldn't be stopped,\ said Moss, \In the second half, we came out firing shots, and with the screami~g ·and yelling from our bench, there was no looking back.\ Moss finished with four goals, as did RyalL Harris h.ad three goals and O~adq added two. Moss noted, \We were focussed for an NCAA Sloan Miller/TC Junior Sam Ryall takes a shot on goal. Union celebrates on the field after discovering they will be part of the Sloan Miller/TC /999 Division Ill NCAA Tournament . bid.\ Harrisbroke Union's single sea- son scoring mark with her fist goal in the game, giving her 50 fotthe year. The win was Union tenth in a row, an<>ther record for the Dutchwomen. \They were very athletic and quite aggressive,\ stated B~velander Tired and' worn down, Union battled William Smith in the final game of the champion<;hip. \We just carne out tired,\ said Moss. With Ryall'sgoal at6:14 in the sec- ond half, Union tied the game at three. The HeFon's goaltender then made sh consecutive saves onher way to being named the MVP of the tournament. Atthe half, Will- iam Smith led 11-5, and finished with a 21-7 win. It was William Smith's tenth consecutive State title. Moss, Tara Ilsely, and Mar- . garet Merriam each had two goals, while Ryall added one. \If we had played ()Ur game, and taken them out of their game, we could have won,\ said Ryall. Union had lost to Willi:am Smith, 16..;8, in the third game ()f the season. Bevelander adcled, \They played the best la- crosse I have seen in a while.\ Moss, Ryall, and Okada were each named to the \All-Tournament Team.\ Despite the loss, Union was given New York's number two seed and became the first ever women's team from Union to go to the NCAA's. After soccer got robbed of an invitation last fall, the team was ecstatic to be invited. They played Rowen in New Jersey yesterday at 5:00PM. Rowan isacomplete op- posite team to Union, highly ag- gressive, rough and abrasive ac- cording to Bevelander. Rowan was ranked 1 I, two spots ahead of Union. When asked what it felt like to be the first women's team from Union to receive an NCAA bid, Bevelander paused and said, \I am so proud of them. The effort and all the hard work has paid off. We couldn't have done. what we have done withoutthe help of the entire team. We are spread out as a team.\ The winner of tile game heads to Princeton University to play top ranked and defending national champions CollegeofNew Jersey. \A chance to play at Princeton and the top team would be amazing. I welcome the challenge,\ says Bevelander. Tile winner of Sunday's game will travel to Johns Hopkins for the Final Four of Division III lacrosse. - -

(!Lnn£ori'tien:sis • May 6, 1999 • Page 22 Spom Softball Team Prepares for Post-Season Action Union Breaks School Winning Record, Seeded #2 in Tournament by Brian TerlillSky Sports Eaitor Late Monday night, the Sports Information Office here at Union received some exciting news that the Softball team would definitely be interested with. After ending a great season at 25-9 an~; 7-;J in the UCAA, Union has broken their own recor.d for wins in a season, while sharing the top position in the UCAA with lo- ca] rival RPL Nevertheless, Union was seeded second for the 1999 New York State Tournament and will take on the seventh. seed, New Paltz, this Friday at 10 AM, hosted by Elmira College in Horseheads. Because of their of consistency to win games, Union was able to be one ofthe best softball teams in the school's history, as well as in the UCAA. Union ended its season with three doubleheaders this past week against One(mta, Russell Sage, and Rochester. .fn the last stretch ofthe season, Union would go on to win five out of their last six games, which secured them a defi- nite playoff spot in the post-sea- son New York State Tournament. Last Tuesday, Union split their first of three remaining double- header to Oneonta, losing in the first game, 7-6, but winning the sec- ond, 12-7. With the split win against Oneonta, the 1999 Union.softball team tied the school recordforwins in a season that was broken back in 1994. In the second game U njon came alive early, with a S€\len run first inning, after sophomore Heather Ligotino smashedl a three-run double to start thoe ambush of Oneonta. Freshm!an Audrey Brennan also added to the score by bringing home tiW<> runs, while junior Tara McManus crossed the plate for Union fo\lr times in the second game. In Thursday's doubleheader against Russell Sage, Union had no big problems to handle, as they won both gameseasily,'9-l and 14- 2. With these two w,i11s, Union went passed the old recor.d of2 J wins to set a new school record. Union was so dominating, that the eight run mercy run was put in effect for both games. In the first game~ sophomore Brooke Schoenen crracked a three- run homerun, whille also hitting another RBI single. !in the third in- ning; Sophomore Judie Cardenttino gave some more action to the team with a double and (I triple, scoring a run for Union. lnthesecondgamle, Union once again struck early i11 the game and very hard. Ele\len rul!ls were scored in tile first inning, inc.luding a double from freshman Melinda Colon, which scor·ed two for the team. Julie Cardentlino also had two RBI singles an·d scoring. off a single from Taryn SamoL Union would en.d their regular season against lm11:gtime rival Rochester home on Saturday. With a double victory over Rochester, Union would tie RPI for first place in the UCAA. SeniorTarynSamol slammed her seventh homerun of the season, while driving home three runs for Union in the first game against Rochester. Sophomore Apryle Pickering pitched a one-hitter and had a no- hitter up until the sixth inning. Sh- annon Lawlor had two RBis off a double and a singl.e, while Deb Cedarbaum had both an RBJ double and a triple. FFotn a stellar performance this past week, Apryle Pickering was named UCAA \Pitcher of the Week.\ Pickering had an average ERA of .32, pitching 22 innings in four games. In those 22 innings, only 14 hits were allowed and she struck out 12 batters. Also, Julie Cardenttino received UCAA \Hon- ors\ for batting an average of .500, Cardenttinohad 13 hits and scored 10 runs for Union. NEW YORK STATE TOURNAMENT As said above, the New York State Tournament will be held to- morrow, hosted by Elm ira College at Horseheads. The seedings are as f<>llows: 1. St. John's, 2. Union, 3.Geneseo, 4. Hartwick, 5, RPI', 6 RIT~ 7. New Paltz, 8. Elmira. Union will go up against New Paltz, who they swept earlier in the season in a doubleheader. . ry Senior Taryn Sarno/ runs to the plate tQ score for Union on Saturdcry. UCAA. Final Sta.ndin.gs Tean U1ion RPI Skichue ·Rcx:ttester 1-Errilton W-L-T 7-14 7-1-0 08-9 ~. .f\ll':\ PTs 21 2.1 0 . W-L-T 25&(). 20-12-1 5-4&0 Men's Lax Playoff Hopes Still Alive in 1999? by Hugh Meyer Staff Writer This past week for the Union College Lacrosse Team was the mostsignificantofrecentmemory. The Dutchmen had beaten their four previous opponents in impressive fashion. The talk among the players and coaches concerned the possibility of an ECAC playoffbirth with wins against Hamilton College and national power Will iarns College. With this in mind, the Dutchmen had focused practices that concentrated on their punishing defense and patient offense. The Captains stressed that the team needed to continue to work hard, get the ground balls and stay to the game plan. On a beautiful, sunny Saturday, the Union College Lax Team faced off against Hamilton College at Frank Bailey field. The pleasant weather brought out many visitors including many alumni. Prior to the game, the Union Seniors were honored in a short ceremony with fami\ly members present. The excitement on the faces of the seniors as well as their teammates was evident and this would produce excellent play right from the face off. Ten seconds into the contest, Kurt Kimball raced down the left side of the field and fired a shot into the net. The Dutchmen would not let down; they continued to cut-hustle Hamilton to every loose ball and were able to successfully run all of their p la).'S on offense. The Union atta~kmen, led by Senior Chad SCJf]neide!f and Freshmen Russ !Crebel and Jon Schiff, were able t() methodically take apart the defe:nse. l.n addition, the llefens.e led Nick Goater, Mike Guild and Jordan Thomas was impenetrable; the Dutchmen defe11s.e constantly harassed the Hami lton attack men and pre\lented them from finding any lanes to shoolt thr()ugh~ Co-Captain Steve Hoytt said, \Our game plan W'as to push them around and take acl\antage of our size on defense.\ Freshman goalie Pat Forrest rma<le several exceptional saves, which sparked the. Union offense. Senior Co- Captain Tim Beruscn also found thebackofthe net twice in t!he first half, along with Freshman Nate Peck. While the Dutchimenplayed a bit passively on offe11se in the second half, they were able to prevent Hamilton from getti11g back into the game. The defense •remained solid throughout the sea:cmd half; while the offense was able to kill a great deal of clock. In total, there were twelve different point scorers for the Dutchmen on this day. The fi- nal score was UJ nion 13, and Hamilton 3. On Tuesday, May 4 , the Union College Lax team took on Williams College, a top 2:5 opp<>nent. This game would decide the playoff fate for tiLe Dutchmen and they were~~~'\\ poised and. confident when th first whistle blew. T h fense stood tall against an early on- slaught by Wi11iams and easy Freshman goalie Pat Forrest. \0 Freshman attack man '> · Russ Kerbel found the· back of the net early · the first quarter for the Dutch- men off a Smior St.eve Hoyt talks to Coacn McCormick before .. t/ Jki~<la great feed by Co- Captain Steve Hoyt. Union would take a 4-2leadlate in the first half on goals by Scott Dutcher, Jon Schiff and Kurt Kimball. Union played an all around solid first half and the score was tied at four a piece. Co- Captain Steve Hoyt noted, \We played a solid first half, but didn't take ad- vantage of our opportunities to takeover.\ However, when the second half opened, Williams College caught field on Saturday ag(2inst Hamilton. the Dutchmen napping and were able to find the back ofthenet took take the lead. Unfortunately for Union,. they W{)Uld not be able to retake the lead. Tlie defense remained strong, but the offense had trouble getting it past the goalie for Williams. In the end, the Dutchmen ended up on the losing end by a score of 9-6. While the playoffhopes for tbe Dutchmen tnighthav~ been ended by this defeat, the futur~ is cer- tainly bright. This is an team wlio plays ex<:eptionaHy well together and needs time to grow. Co-Captain Steve Hoyt talked about the emphasis on defe11se. \Game in and game out the defense .played diligently and this ga\le 11s a chance to win.\ With a super Freshman class along with the leadership of tile upperclassmen, the Union Co 1lege Lacrosse program will undoubt· edly be successful next seaso11.

j() er se Track Goes to Hartwick for State Championships Senior Peter Flynn Gives Union An Unforgettable Performance by Peter ~ndrew Staif.Writer The unofficialendofthe Union track and field season came this past weekend. Tile team spent Friday and Satllrday at Hartwick College atthestatetrack meet. The points. The meet actually started last weekend with the decathlon and heptathlou competitions. Brian \check out .my grapes\ Roy finished third ,in the state in the decathlon scoringa 5600,just 500 points shy of qualifying for nationals. He .also racked up six Sophomore Missy Matusewicz on the longjump. weather was beellitiful and so were most of Union's performances. Vi1tually everyone on the team had a: personal record in one way or another. Them en finished in ninth place with 3 8 points while the women took fourteenth with six team points early on for the Dutchmen. Senior captain Jesse Prisco showed his t-alent in the longjump with a le~p of 21 feet, two inches, which placed him sixth in the state. He earned three points for the team Fre.sfman Renee Rinaldi in the 1OOm hurdle. and ended' his career on a good note. Amy Slabich placed eighth in the 1500m withatimeof5:07.88. Slabich has made improvements as a tactical runner this season. She has learned to be patient at the begim1ing so that she can finish strong. This weekend, Amy ran the first 800m of the race 10 seconds slower than in previous weeks, which allowed her to finish B seconds faster. Good job, Amy. Atsu Kaneko,. who finished fifth i:n the state in tlte 200m, had a noteworthy performance in his 200m trial, running a 22 .6·1. Kaneko .has a very quick start aAd could challenge Dennis Sanabia's school record of22.06 next yeadfhe can increase his. top speed. Melissa Matusewicz placed fi>urth in the triple jump. She jumped lO. 72m which was a persona,! best by 0.43m. Matusewicz is ju!;t 0.48m sbmt of the national qualifying mark of ll.20m. Future field athlete of the meet, Erian Roy, also eamed a fourth place finish in the jav~lin with a toss of 180 feet. Finishing up the scoring was PeterFlynn(first in the 5000 and 10000~ who earned the runner of the meet award. A number of l)ther people had great performances as well. Steve \Schul-city-schul:s\ Schulerhad a PR in the 800m with a 2:02.7. Maureen Farrell also pr-ed finish- ing in 2:32,02, a two second im- pn~vement. Matt\' I 0 more yards\ Conley ran 13 seconds better in the steeplechase. JeffMorse took five seconds offhis 1500m time with a 4:14.78. Glenna Malcolm broke the 2:40 barrier in the 800m in the 4x800m relay. Similarly, John Houghton broke the 2: I 0 ban·ier with a 2:07 split in the same race. Kamal Tyson ran in the low 2:30s for a pr and helped the women's 4x800m better their time by over 20 seconds. There are two other people who ()eserve recognition. Jerald Whittington has served as the \go-to\ man in the relays this year. He has run on the 4x I OOm, 4x400m and even the 4x800m relay teams. In fact, during indoor,. he came to states in street clothes to show support for his team. When the 4x800m team was one leg short, Jerald pulled a quick change with a moments notice and anchored the relay team. Thanks for being there J~rald.Jon Neiman has also been a team player. He has runon every 4x400, and4x800team this year. He is both quick and strong. His best virtue, however, is his ability to give 110% effoitevery time he gets the baton. This is what runners call \heart.\ Here are (most.of) the results: Women's: Discus 9. Carolyn Cieslowski 33.88m 1500m 8. Amy Slabich 5:07.88 800m 21. Maureen Farrell 2:32.02 3000m Glenna Malcolm 4x800m 1 O.(Tyson, Farrell, Slabich, Malcolm} 10.22.08 Triple Jump4.MelissaMatusewicz l0.72m Men's: Shot Put 2. Shawn Shopmyer 12.35m Javelin 1. Roy 180\ Long Jump 6. Prisco 6.54m (21'2\)TripleJump l.Roy 12.67m 2. Darlington 12;61 m High Jump !.Darlington NH 400m Chris Strdhsahl55.13 4x800m 12. (Morse, Houghton, Conley, Neiman) 8:28.9 3<l00m Steeplechase 16.Matt c~nley 10:39.26l500m 13. Jeff Morse 4:14.78 110m Hurdles weekend. Tile punishment for this was to walk home. Also, shot putter Shawn Shopmyer has taken overNickConway'scoaching po-. sition. Nick made a feeble attempt to redeem himself by racing Shop in a 20m dash. Nick lost miserably. In- Senior Peter Flynn comes down the stretch during the /0,000 meter race. IJ.Roy 16.85 lOOm 14.Atsu Kaneko 11.50 800m 24.Steve Schuler2:02. 73 200m 5 .Kaneko 22.60 5000m l.Fiynn 15:25.21 I 0000 I. Flynn 3 I :52.04 Corey Math is 43:52 4x400 14. (Schuler, Whittington, Kaneko, Nieman)3:37.7 Track Notes: Chris \bouse of style\ Strohsahl did not have a pr this cidentally, eve.ryone was too busy laughing at Nick to remember Chris Strohsahl, wh<> got a free ride home on the van. This weekend, tracksters will be split between the Albany \last chance\ meet on Friday, a fun-run in Central Pa.Jk on Saturday and a halfmarath<>n in Vermont, also on Saturday. Sophomore Shawn Shopmeyer gives it all he can during the shotput. -

.. ' Women's Rugby Finishes Season on Positive Grounds by Te»mi Allanson Contributing Writer Union Women's Rugby started their season at the beginning of spring term with a strong showing of newcomers who quickly learned the game from the seasoned veter- ans and from their coach, Dave Rol>bin::;. Hoping to continue the team's success from the fall, the team prepared for their first game against 1-Iamilton, which took place onAprillO. Playing on their home turf, in frcnt of Nott Memoria], the W()men 's rugby team trounced the opposition with a score of 31-0. Trys were made by \Big\ Becky Auerbach, Katie \Thunder\ C<>merford, Marissa \Legs\ Reisman, and two by \Super\ T()vah Glaser. Three extra kicks were made by \Little\ Becky Ambrosino. For the first time, the women's rugby team had enough players to participate in a B-side game played midweek against Hartwick. Play- ing until dark, the rookies played strong against Hartwick's first string, winning 33-0. Rookies De- V()n Greshanek, Cally Woodard, and Leah Baker played strong while Jennifer \Lightning\ Comerford, Michelle Stein, and Randi Dupont all picked up ()ne try while the Scrumhalfpicked up two. Four successful kicks were made to top off the outstanding perfor- mance by the players who &_ot their first taste of rugby. The following weekend the team awoke early to travel to the Clarkson Tournament. First Union played Brockport, and although it was a shaky beginning, they pro\Ved triumphant with trys from the only senior, Dina Bmnstein, and from J. Comerford, to make the sco1e 12..;0. Although it was tough to keep warm in-between games, Union proved to be on fire on the field. They took their second game they step on the field they tum on their garne faces a11d take care of busiaess. The team was motivated to do well for themselves, the it teammates, and tlleir coach, Dave Robbins. The fast game of Up- and,collidedwith each other. Trys were scored by Allanson, J. Comerford, and the Scrumhal:f, in addition to two extra kicks. The two wins put Union into the finals against Oswego. Despite against University 1\\.'7.,.,,...,..,.,.,.....'\:\\\..,.....,.....,....__,..._,_,.,.,.....,...,..., __ .....,_ ________ ...,...,.,~~ir\ Oswego's O\Ver- Wllelltnirlg num- of.Rochester with . Trys were scored · by J. Comerford, Glaser, and two by Tomi \Thor\ Allanson. Union next played Syra- cuse in the semifiu nals where Ullion's potential wasn't reached. Tile two teams were evenly matched but Syra- cuse ended up with the win, of7- 0. Union was at the five meter line for the last min- utes of the game and became frus- trated when they di<in't cross try line. Overall, U11ion received third at the touma- ment. The next weekend the team trav- eled to Oswego to play in the Up- state Tournament where the best of the best came out to fight for the title of state champion. The pressure of the tournament did not get to the team as they \showed off' their ability to stay calm by singing and joking with each other al()ng the road. The team always has fun with each other, but when W()rkf~d as ()De. The playwas ex- ecuted perfectly and :ended with Glaser running the bal'l .into the try :zone, while the crowd on th.e sidelines cheered in amazement. Glaser ended up with tw<J trys as Comerford. The team poses for a snapshot after their champio11~frip season. Ellen Taylor and Allanson each scoredone~ Two extra kicks by Ambrosino made the final score 34·0. With states was agai11st Oneonta. The game resume!la.:fter an ambulance took one of Oneonta's players with for a neck i11jur~, and Union won 34-0' Trys we:re scored by the Scrumhalf, Arnbr()sino, Bronstein and twohy J. Comerford with three extra k.jcks by Ambrosino. Next, ag~inst Brocl<pritfi., Union won, l~· 0. · Tw() of th~ Erockport players were sent tc ille Jl()spital after they both attemptedt() tackle A Hanson th~ strong finish by Union they emned the title ofNYSRG Division ll Rugby State Champions. The greatest challenge was still tO' cQme. Could the team sh()W that tltey deserved the title- of State Cbampions by continuing their SllCCess against a Division. I team like RPI? ThispastweekendUn~on ]1csted the first annual Union Women's Rugby Tournament spcmsored by the Rathskellar. A special thanks to Jim Dunn and the staff '()fthe Rathskellar for provid- il1g fo~><if()r all.tllree teams, as well as fortbe trQphies. U11ion hosted Albany State and RPI. Uni()n'sfirst game was against Alb~ny, wl1ere11te Union ruggers tro.u11~ed tllem 32-'0, with try.s scored by Caitlin Callahan, Bt()Qstein, Allanson, Glaser, J. Conterforcl, and Ambrosino, who alsQ bad an ex.tr~ kick. After All>~ny was defeated l>y RPl, t:.Jnio11 took <Jn RPI. The two teans :fo~ght for first place but 'Unbn broke thr()Ugh with two long runs ending in trys making the fi- nal score l0-5, \Vith RPI scoring only the sec()ndtry against Union all seasC>n. Aggressive play by Lauren Tabas, ~nne Bishl<o, Lindsay Baier, and Stacey Barnard led the teall1 to tile to11rnament victory. One try for Union was scored by Glaser, aad the other by the only seni(lr Dina Br()nstein who ended ller Union rugby career ()ll Satur- day. Sne n,ot only led the team with llerstr()ng:play on the field, butoff 1he fi~ld as well by being a co-cap- tain with junior Rachel Lutke. BroiJs.tein received player of the se.aso11 a11d she will be greatly missedne:xtyear~ The team is always looking for new players. If yo11 want to start pla~ing rugby call Jennifer Comerford at ·5&95 o.r Tomi Allan:s()n at -8196, or show up at the flagpole the first day of classes in the fall for practice. The Union \VI)men'~ Rl!gby t()am enjoy~d suc'<e~s aond tha11ks all those who lent their supp()rtthroughout their seas()n~. •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• : 2nd A:nnua:J. UNION COLL·EGE : • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . •'I • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • / .. ·· ... _? • ) I ·-.. . - , i .. \\-· A DUC~ C~s~ . ~ ... ,, .. - . Sen.Ior the • ! I \'-.,_ . _, __ ,/ • • • • • • • • ~atur c:Jayr, ;rv.. ay 8~-:-.- :a~99> 4 P-• nw -- Jac::=kson's.' Sa~ de~ r ··-, /.-~··=-·:·_~·- ----·--·------.: \'----- / \~-- ... -/ . / (__ .) : Buy a Duck - - $2 \for one o·...---$5 'for thr~-e . ............. . • • Prizes include: 2 Night: Getavvay to 1.11-e Ml .. ror Lake Inn, Lake P•acl~ (courtesy o'f AAA Travel) 2 Tickets to \The King and f'IP (courtesy of P'roctor•s Theatre) . 2 Adult Lift Tickets to Catamount Ski Area (courtesy of' catamo~o---t Mountain) . ......... , ...... . • • • • • • • 5 Jb. Hershey's Milk Chocolate Bar(courtesy of the HershElY corporati(lon) : Autographed Rosiet O'Donnell Talking Doll (c:ourtt:tsy Qf the ROSie o~ponnell ShoW) e Autr;>graphed Union Colleg:f!JI Football (courtesy of th~ Union College Football team) : Autographed Union Col-lege Ice Hock&~y Stick (cQ'urtesy o'f the Hockey team) • $1 00.00 Open Door Bookstore Gift Certtficate (courtesy of Open Door Booi<etor$) : Tough Traveler ••super Padre•• Backpack (courtesy o'ToUg1'1 Tr.ave~r) • . . . •. · .. Gift Certificate for two to ttle Butcher Block Restaurant·(oourtesyCl'l'the Butcher ~lock) • Ya hour Massage at Sha.,,gri - La Salon (courtesy of Shangri - L:~:J Salon) • • Variety of' Union College Merchandise (courtesy o'f union College Bc>o.J<store) • PLUS MANY OTHERS / / I • Don\t .. delay.-.Adopt yours today before they all.,lo-at avvay~! • • • ------~------------~-----------------------------~---~--------------~-----------~-~----------------------~~--· . . . . . .· . . . . You DC> NOT NEED TO BE·PRESENT TO CLAlM YOU!it PRIZE. PLEASE. RETURN eo-n-OM PORTION ALONG WITH 8 PAYMENT (CHECKS TO BE MADE PA\YABLE TO UNION COLLEGE) AND MAIL TO:·. . . . . . e )ON ZANDMAN \'99 c/o OFFICE OF ANNUAL GlVJNG- 807 Union Street- Scheniecclady,. NY 12308 : • < ):_~~-----------~--------· ·------------- . Phons # Name ___________________ .......___,. ......... ......-... __ • # of Ducks -------- and your DUCK'S NAME(S) ------------_,....------....---: --------------------------------------------------~-----------· Questions? - please call ext. 61 74 ----------------~--~--------------~---------------------------· • • . . . . . . •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• i .I l

t t t t t t t t t t t !l'\ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • j • • I • • • Unlo,n's MBA can OPEN the DOOR to a career in management. INTE'RESTED STUDENTS ARE ~ ' ' INVITED TO ATTEN·D AN MBA lNFO:RMATION SESSION THU.RSDAY,, MAY 13 HUMi~NlT:IES 014 4:30. s·:30 pm • FOR MORe INFORMA liON OR TO RSVP CALL: 388·62~!1 PARENTS' AND RECOGN1TION WEEKEND MAY 7-9, 199!) l'lea$e visit Old Chapel during registration on Friday (5-Jp.m.) or Saturday (9a.m.·noon)to pick llj) a copy of the full. det1tilcd ~hedule. [ FRIDA.V, MAY 7 ~ a.llt .. 5 p:m. Art Exhlbll, Nau Memonal 9:20a.m. • 6 p.m. Stelnliltlx Symposium 1!:20 p.m. • J;SO p.m. J)ance Perfonn~n~.Art> ·B~ilding 3:30p.ll'l. 5:30 P•Jn• 6 p.m. 6:30·p.m. CDC Open lfow:c, Old ChJpd Cbolr J>eriormanre, Art~ ·Building Parents' Wtekend Resistration and R•*eptlan. 01\1 Cltopel ))'Vor 'torah an4 Servicos, Kpsher Kotclocn llil!el .J)tnner. Kosher ~Kitchell Slelnmct> Symposlt!DI Banquel •. U\pperclass Dining Hall 8 p.no. 'fhc~r Prod11c1Jon • Jack and !ill, Tile A®r\s Stud in, Yulmiiii Theater 8 p.m .. & !O·p.m. FUm • Parch, Manu. CC Audiwrium .8•30 p:m. Orrhe<tra, Memorwl O~apel i\'mcd\toly follo\\10~ ltcceptlon, lble H<>USe Dmin~ Room SATURDAY, MAY 8 9 am. 12 noou Parents' \Veekeud Rcjjistration attd ke~eption, Old Chapel 10 am. PreSldenl's Welcome, Non Mon10rl>l It a:m .• 12:30 p.in. Sulnmetz Sympo•ium P ... sttr Stssloo, NoltMemDri\l H a.m. · I p.m. \Graduato Honors, Fellowships, and Award,;,\ 3rd Door, Nott Mcmunal r~r 1 11 ~.m. · 11:30 a.m. Eledroak Classroo111 Dt~C~q, l\O<Jm (H9, ~lumo.t\itic.< Building 11 <.m. · 2 p.m. ·nurre' Lunch, Upp<rci•IS·Dlimng ll•ll. Featuring secipes from llom;e, 1'1 a.m .• 8 p.m. Art El<hlbil, Nolt Mernntlll H:JO a.m. IZ nou11 Elettro.,ic Clasm>olll Demo, Room 019. Humanities Building 11:30 am . I p.m. Union College Jo•~~: E.,seruble Steinmetz Concert, ('!let's !:3fl p.111, Priu Day CeJ:<ntony. l.rcnwrinl Chopel immoduilely follov.ing Presl~eut's Recepll<>ll, Ell!< House C'<>urtyard (Rain 'location· llak Hou>e Dinmgl 4 p m. Senior Class \Adopt • !luck Race\ Jackson's Oilrden 8 p.m Theawr Production • Jcik ••uJ. ]Ul, The Aclor's Studw, Yulman :l11euto-r 8 pIll Dutch Pipers Cunoer1, 1-fcr:m>nul ('hapd immo<lmtely followmg R~ecption, Old Clurcl ~· p.m & 10 ~ m Film • /'arch Adams, e;c· .Autlitnt~mm SUNDAY, MAY~ 9 a.m .• 12 noon Mother's !Jay BruncJo, Up!\'tdl!Ss l)omng ·11:30 ~.Ill. · 12:30 p.m: .Protestant Won;blp ·se .. rk~, Mobtl l.ouuge, Campus Ccnle:r (4ehllourj 'l2 .no.ln - 2 J>.m. 12 nooo.· 10·1) m. I p.m. ~ 3 p.m. !lilld Lounge llodio:ati<>n. Koshor Kitr:hen An Exhibit. Nott Memortd Ballroom Dancing [.'~\\· Old Chapel CDC Upda:t:es ••• naraduat\e Honors_., Fellowships~ and Awards: Wlrat U.nion#s Best and Brighlest sl1ould k1row about Lheir Options. •• Profes- sor Byron Nichol~ will host a poster session to discuss tlr.ese post-graduate fellowships. All students and parents ane invited. Sat. May 8th. 11-lpm Nott Memorial, 3rd Floor Going on a Tenn A.(jrood? Important tneeting for .Juniors going on a term abroad ne-:x;t \fall. Tues. May 11. 4,~:m CDC Meering for Junior.$: Tips from Seniors on h,ow to prcpa1·e for your senior year. what to expect in the job search. what they wish they had known. Thurs. May 13. 4-~m CDC Looking for a SuTnn~er Znrernship? It is not too late to f'ind something! Check out new lisl.ings at w-...vw.union.edu/career/CDC.ICSJ.l.htrnl ••webE\change•• .Check out this career site! Ex;cellent career information and \\.veb llnks. for the top career fields chosen by liberal arts grad\\ult.es. This site cari be f'ou.nd under ••Job Exploration\ on our website. h.t\tp://www.union.edu/career/CDC/CDC.hunl Informational ~eeting Zane ~ie:srer, l'JTa~son Winner 1.997-98 -will discuss his observing, and Train \Wat-son year ~raveling ~hrough .Europe ~~Renaissance and .Baroque Churches St:ations. ,~ The Thomas S. Watson Fellowship gives college graduates the :freedom to engage in a year of independent study and travel abroad exploring a particular interest:,. and developing a rnore informed: sense of\ international cor1cern. The Fellowship provides a grant: of\ $22,000 to each recipient . Learn more abou~ \&his unique opport\unily! May 11, 1999 at: 4:30pm in SS104 www;. uni~ .. edu.IP\UBLIC/'ECODE.PTikleindl'watsonlinde:x .. htrnl -

. ,.,. QiiJncnrlriinsis • May -6, 1999 • Page 26 Women's Crew Falls Short at NYSCRC in Rom.e, NY by Braelin Pantel & Chris Vines Contributing Writers Blazing sun adorned the sky as the Union women's crews traveled to Lake Delta in Rome, NY for the New York State Collegiate Rowing Championships. After a clean sweep on the women's side the previous week- end, the hopes of adding an addi- tiona!medal totheircollection were on the minds ofallthewomen. With the pressure of midterms aside, the nine varsity women put their best efforts on the water. Th<lir heat was comprised'ofmany pow- erful and lar.ger crews. The women knew it was going to be a tough race . crews. Power.------.,,...,..---~---,--, moves and deter .. · mination kept the race close be- tween Union and Marist forthe I 200m. ish line, Union simply could . match the strength Marist. Although. finishing a m~rP.t'~ three s .. rc•nn behind Marist, with a time of7:22, Union took fourth place. After a de- cision to race the Petite finals following day, season. umneo up from last weekend's win, the nine . women in the jv boat were ec- static to add to nion 's presti- gious history of doing well at the state leveL Six seat Katie Mack refle.cted on the race by saying, \Everyone kept pushing them- selves to their lim it.\ The Jv boat was com- of Sue Morrison. Char- thefinalround·of competition. Julie Wittekind had the ffJUowing c<Jm- mentson fllenovice race, \The row was good. \We felt like were moving to- gether as one unit.\ They ended their novice season with a positive row, and their improvement over the year could be dearly rec()g .. nized. Allison Cohen coxed her teE\111 ofMeghan Driscoll, Katie Tee, Mary Grose, GuidaEst.rela, Candi Gordon, Jen Miller, Kat Ferris,. and Julie Wittekind, The women's varsity team looks forward tp integrating the b9ats next season to continue the gro}Yth of Union Women's Crew. For all those \friends of Union rowers/' thanks for your support, arid <lnd- . les.s hcmrs listertin,g .to the crew . ~ ' . gossip. . As we end our season on the water, we can only hope that you will survive without the cult that A third place ftnish was needed in order to make it to the Grand Fi- nal of the regatta. With butterflies in their stomachs and blisters on their hands, proof of a year's woith of training came down to one 2000m race. Exploding out from the start, Union and Marist were seat to seat. and a night o team bonding, the women took first place the next morning, finish- lotte Beales, everyone calls \Crew.\ In a tina! The team prepares themselves for the NYSCRC this past week. Anne Blankman, note, a special thanks from the ~----------~-~--~-----. ~.,..._.;,~---- Tara Noyes, and _ Womeli'.s vf:lrsity-8.to our seai~rs, coxswain Sharon Pozner. Finish- Jamie Bunchuck, and captams ing up on tb;e Women's. side were S~sanmi Ryanand Sarah A hat:~ for the novice W()rnen. a job well done, and the contlnu- swain Cori Kautz. The varsity boat is excited about competing this weekend at the Dad. Vails regatta in Philidelphia,PA. Colgate and Ithaca were clearly vying for the first an<! second place finishes, but Union was in the run- ning for the third place seed. Canisius was lagging behind and was no match for the stronger ing seventh in the state. The varsity boat was comprised of Melissa Sullivan, Jamie Bunchuck, Brae lin Pantel, Susanna Ryan, Chris Vines, Clare Canal, Mary Felton, Sarah Ahart, and cox- An excellent race by the Junior varsity women earned them the bronze medal in their final race of Men's Crew Faces Tough Competition at State Meet by John Carbone Staff Writer That's how the race would end. saw both Union and Ithaca sprint Shocked and amazed by such a dis- ahead. of Colgaie, also leaving appointing collapse to a success- Skidmore and RPI in their wakes. The New York State Collegiate fol season, the eight men were l~ft Ithaca proved to he too much for · Rowing Championships were held speechless following the race. the Union boat, as they finished this past weekend on Delta Lake in Sunday came and the crew took three seats ahead. Colgate was a Rome, NY and the Union men were to the water in search of redemp- close third, lesstban a foot behind there. tion. Union. The first day pfracing for the Withlthaca,acrewthathadbeat Thejvmen's8+alsotookpat1;in varsity 8+ boats was comprised of Union the previous day, in the next . Saturday's events. With. seven qua I i fy in g.----------------------------------,. boats entered heats, with the in the event, top three teams e competi- from each o would be two heats rac- ing in Sunday's .- -:~:= -~-~-- ' .. ~~ -~;~~~~?~~·._:~·~:. ·-~~ ~7\:~: .. -~ •! \' .. ·:;..::_:..:·--:· ~« ~_~:----~-: ~ :- Grand Final. · With Ithaca, Dowling, RIT and Army in their heat, the·~.-..~e~~·':~ Union men knew it would be a fast and tough race. Primed at the start, they were able to jump out into the front the pack, pull- ing even with .,.,j,,r:-~~-- ~~·. number one s e e d e d Dowling Col- lege. 1. hp,cr,;,n to sepa- Cory .,,., .. ,..., Ithaca began to move up at 750 meters and the rest of the Men 's crew at the State Meet cruises down the river. Union to stay Marist, but slowly slipped behind. pack followed. At 100 meters, less than two seats separated all five boats. A two-stroke bobble at I 050 meters cost Union the race. The rest of the field made strong rn oves and Union was left behind, down by four seats on the nearest crew. lane, Union knew it would be an- other tough day of racing. Union and Ithaca came out of the start side by side, but Colgate Jed the pack Colgate would hold that lead throughout the first 1500 meters, as Union and Ithaca would battle for second. The last 500 meters, however, With 500 meters to go they began to sprint, but the ethers showed that they, too, could finish strong. Union would finish in fifth place, ahead ofboth Colgate and Skidmore. This weekend the men's and women's varsity boats head to Philadelphia for the prestigious Dad Vail Regatta. .. Showing a fine performance ous motivatio~ n~eded to ~arry .us throughouttlleseason the women . thr(mgh our season. We w•ll. ttuss were pleased with their row., al- you as both rowers and fnends though they would not. . to next year!

,, us ds l '· Baseball ~~~2015-6 UCAA) · 2 CIARKSON(2) 3 Sir~ lAWREN:E~2): . · 7 atSlOdnPre lO atRIT(Z) 11 at:ROOhstf.>t{2) .'13 -~ Won 8-61\Veil 7~5 'Lost 4-21W~n7S ' . I...ost 12-8 Lost 8- 3/LDst 5-1 Won6-5 . Won18-1'5 ' :.J5 ·a.t;~ . .1? :Rrl (2) ·. ·-wst9:-s . . L6;,t 8-5/l.()$15-2 1$ ~RaC2) Lost8-3/Won~5 :21 . , at Hmlton{iJ . Lost 7-$/Lost32 ··· 74,. :at~(2), . . . · .· LoSU3-~US6 25-Ali~_--.--.;:...,k~:->\1'· .. · fir. c..::1tn ' . ,;:xum\\ li..~:J . _. vvonl,f.Ji ~-M<>11JS4 .27. ~. ' ... l.ost$-3 . 30 · . v~Ai<2Y · . wcn-&SNJoo~, . :-: \ . ,) . . . ,.· · W<>n l9-i7 W~n 14•9 W()nlO-l 1 Lo.st-16-10 W()n 11-9 . _' ~on:l4-4 . W()rf: 18·5 ·' .- • .t'·· W~n-t4.$ - Wi>rt r2-6 :,: ·- · W()n: 214 • .. · .~W~n14-4 _ W'()h 11-9- \l.l()n 18-4 Softball (25-9/ 7-l UCAA) APRIL. 6 HARTWICK(2) 8 at Williarm (2) 10 HAMILTON (2) 13 1\tiDIIEBURY (2) 15 ALBANY.(2) 17 at Utica (2} 20 aRPI(2) 22 NEWPALIZ(2) 24 at Skidtrore(2) 27 ONIDNfA(2) Won >4/Won 3-2 Lost 3-.'21 Lost 2-1 Won 7-'2/ Won 6-2 Won4-3/8-0 Won 2-0/l.ost 5-2 Lost5-21Won 10.1 Won 3-0'Lost 3-2 Won 5-4/Won 9-3 Won 18-2/Won 12-3 Lost 7..(,/Won 12-7 29 RUSSEI.L SAGE(2) Won ~l/Won 14-2 :MAY 1 ROCHESTER (2) Won 8-l/ Won 4-0 Men's Lax (6-7/3-2 UCAA) MARCH 31 at Hartwick Lost 10..3 APRIL 2 at Vassar Won20-2 6 MIDDLEBURY Lost 9-5 9 atRPI Lost 20-7 10 at Skidm()re Lost 10-8 14 ALBANY Lost7-4 16 CLARKSON Won 11-8 17 ST. LAWRENCE Won 11-8 20. at Utica Won 14-1 22 GENESEO Won 10-8 MAY I HAMILTON Wonl4-9 4 WILLIAMS Lost 9-l_pRIL 3 10 18 24 MAY I 8 ·T········ .-_- -~ . · e-.ra-m;; ;_ ,Q - . . -··_ :I'I·: ~- :- ·-·~ . . - . - (4·-7) APRIL 5 SKID\IDRE 9 at CJarkson 10 at St. Lawrence Lost7-o Won 5-4 Lost>2 13 at Utica Won 7-0 17 UCAAChampionsltips Union Placed Sixth 18 at Hobart out of 8 team; 20 at OneOnta pddrain 22 atRPI pddrain 24 VASSAR Lost7-0 Men's and (Men 0-1/Women 0-1) AmiL 3 aHniltm lM l.ait 103-~ ~ 1():1..29 10 a~ 12IM: 16 tr'M:Ivht a: RPI lblh.Mnni W:nm 17 trMivht !tRPI Fnishrl Faril 1A aRPI~ M<\Y SlaeMttct·~ Crew atRPI Won all four races PRESIDENT'S CUP RACE! Lost in all with Hobart and William Smith five ra()es at Skidmore 9AM Gliman Plate & Cup Race . Won3 of6 Races at Hamilton NYS Championship in Rome, NY Women's NCM Champiort>hip Do the Boston Brllins have the pewe~ to return to tbe Stanley Cup Finals? E-mail your thoughts to . cQticordy@vu.union.edu -

•

- I I ';•- ; ... , •, .-·,' .Sports. I 1_ i ._, ·:,l.; ~- ... •'·

I 1 --'~Education is not the filling ofa pail, hut the lighting of a fire.'' -Willia·m Butler Yeats Vulum~ CX!\:\\111. Numb~r XXII The Student 1Vewxpaper f!l L'nion College Since 18 7 7 . ~lay JJ. j 9'>9 News: New Admission Video Film.ed on Campus P~e3 Opin-ions: Parents' Weekend Reconsidered PageS World News: U.S. Bombs Chinese Embassy Pa~e 10 Sports: Women's Crew Races in Philly Page16 lnslde Campus ·News~ 3 Opinions- 8 Technology .. 9 WorldN~ws -10 Features--12 A &E-14 Sports -16 Our E-mail concordy@ VIL union. edu :M:ake VVay For Ducklings by St4lpllanieSIObotkin Editor-in-Chief Emerita On Saturday, MayS, 1999, the Second Annual Union College · \Adopt a Duck Race~' was held to benefit the Senior Class gift. At 4 PM, the creek by the bridge near Edward's House filled. with over 1 ,0()0 pink, blue and yellow plastic d11cks. These plastic toys were sold during the prior week for two d1>1lars a piece, or five dollars for :three. Parents, students and a few ad- ministrators gathered on Whipple Creek Bridge to cheer on their numbered duck. Others were there ju~t for the entertainment. Senior Steve Borer said, \Parents' Weekend usually hosts a football game, butthis year there's a duck race;'' Owners of the first twenty .. five ducks that cr()ssedthe finish line were. awarded one of. .many de- lightful prizes~\11ie.fillish line was located before the first tunnel ne~r the field house. Each numbered duck corresponded tc a donor's . . name. A few parents present at the race calculated their odds for winning :a prize. These dedicated individuals bad purchased over 20plastic ducks. \The race is like the Kentucky Derb:y of Union College,,, said Sophomore Glenn Opell. As more families lined the sides of the creek, the ducks were loaded into the water behind a net, preparing for their journey down the creek. autographed Union College Ice Hockey Stick. \I'd love to win the five pound Union's own Duck waits for the start of t~e race. Prizes for the event were donated to the Senior Class by various or- ganizations throughout New York. Awards included ski lift tickets to the Catamount Ski area and an Hershey's Mi'lk Chocolate Bar,\ one young sibling said to her brother. At about 4:15 PM, the ducks were released into the flow ofthe muddy creek. Bobbing up and down, the lopsided, upside-down, and right-side up plastic ducks fought for the finish line and a chancetowin their owner a prize. Ed Dombroski guided along the colorful gaggle by pushing the ducks with a paddle as they got stuck between the rocks.· At one point the fluorescent ducks came to a bait aboat 50 feet beforethe finish line, causing par- ents and students to become anx- ious. \Gosh the ducks are dead,\ commented Senior Molly Hood. As themobofducks bobbed up and down, reluctant to r.each the finish line with fluidity, Marc Schwartz said, \As mucra as I like seeing plastic ducks race, l hope my little guy gets out of that slow trap to win me a trip to Lake Placid.,. When the ducks began moving again, people rushed to the finish line whi.le Junior Trustee Jon Zandman, and Ed Dombroski caught the ducks as they waddled past the designated area. Zandman, dressed in a festive duck costume with a Union sweatshirt, announced the lucky winners. The third place prize went to duck #95-Aiyse Tembor, a parent, who won a gift certificate for two to the Butcher Block Restaurant. Second place prize went to duck #324-Dennis Hollenback, also a parent. He was the lucky winner Continued on page 4 Parents Invade the Campus b)' Shaun Montana Staff Writer Back in the Fall. a letter from Dean Alfcrd went !lome to par- ents announcing a change in the College's usual schedule. Nor- mally, Parents Weekend is held in the fall and corresp()nds with an- other illlportant event on campus, Homecoming. This year, the College did things differently. Parents Weekend was rescheduled to the spring, on the same weekend as the Annual Steinmetz Symposium and Prize Day. The administration thought this change would be a great way to attract a bigger crowd to each Steinmetz Symposium presenta- tion. This would make the week- end a more special time for both parents and students. celed for the whole day. This en- as there ~ere poster presentations abled more students and faculty to in the Nott on Saturday from 11 attend presentations. AM to l PM. As usual, a banquet was held in President Hull concluded the Upperclass for all student present- banquet by mentioning yet another ers, their families and faculty advi- part of the Symposium: the student sors. At the.,__ _____________ _,production b a n q u e t , of Jack and Dean Brad- \As morning Jill at the ley Lewis Yulman The- and Presi- Changed tO dent Roger Hull con- afternOOn, the gratulated the students focus shifted from and faculty ontheexcel- music and resea_v-'-.'; lent work they did. to recoonizing President ~ Hull com- StUdentS fior their mented that no other in- achievements. \ stitution is atre. \The ad· mission is entirely free \ in- ' formed Presi- ; rl~nt Hull. ••r, myself am going to see itin four min- utes, so my remarks will be short, I promise!\ as commit-..__ _____________ _, Also on ted to undergraduate research as Friday night vvas the Union Col- Union. lege Orchestra's presentation of Afterwards, Dean Lewis went Romantic Favorites in Memorial over the next day's schedule of Chapel. celed due to a snowstorm. The winter disaster turned out to be for- tunate since hundreds of students, faculty and staff were in atten- dance. Audience members were treated to many beautiful masterpieces. They included Mendelssohn's, A Midsummer Nights Dream Over- ture, five songs from Schubert's song cycle Winterreise which were each selected and orchestrated by· different Union Students, and Mendelssohn's Symphony !Vin A m~or. The highlight of the concert, Schumann's Piano Concerto in A minor, with the incredible perfor- mance of sophomore piano soloist Anastasie Prokhorova. The concert lasted.ftorn 8:30PM until about 10 PM, and added mu- sical culture and class to the Steinmetz Symposium. The President's Opening Re- marks started Saturday morning bright and early at 10 AM with mostly parents in attendance. There were many activities sched- uled for the early morning. The Continued on page 3 ~----~----~---------' Parents Weekend '99 officially started with the beginning of the first Steinmetz Symposium ses- sion at 9;20 AM Friday morning. In total, six sessions spanned the day witll presentations in all the different disciplines. Also, new to this year, all classes were can- events, encouraging people to at- 1t featured music that was sup- tend them. Heremindedpeoplethat posed to be played at a concert the Symposium was not yet done, during Winter Term but was can-

: ( '' I .. •'', -''Education is not the filling ofa pail, but the lighting of a.fire. '' -William Butler Yeats This Week :-M:ake VVay For Ducklings News: New Admission v·.ideo Filmed on Campus Page3 Opinions: Parents' Weekend Reconsidered PageS World News: U.S. Bombs Chinese Embassy Page 10 Sports: by Stephaeie Slobotkin Editor-in-Chief Emerita On Saturday, MayS, 1999, the Second Annual Union College \Adopt a Duck Race\ was held to benefit the Senior Class gift. At 4 PM, the creek by the bridge near Edward's House filled with over I ,000 pink, blue and yellow plastic ducks. These plastic toys were sold during the prior week for two dollars a piece, or five dollars for three. Parents, students and a few ad- ministrators gathered on Whipple Creek Bridge to cheer on their numbered duck. Others were there just for the entertainment. Senior Steve Borer said, \Parents' Weekend usually hosts a football game, but this year there's a duck race.\ Owners of the first twenty-five ducks that crossed the finish line were awarded one of many de- lightful prizes. The finish line was located befClfe the first tunnel near the field house. Each numbered duck corresponded to a donor's name. A few parents present at the race calculated their odds for winning a prize. These dedicated individuals had purchased over 20 plastic ducks. \'The race is like the Kentucky Derby of Union College,\ said Sophomore Glenn Opell. As more families lined the sides of the creek, the ducks were loaded into the water behind a net, preparing for their journey down th.e creek. autographed Union College lee Hockey Stick. \I'd love to win the five pound Shannon '--U''\q Union's own Duck waits for the start of the race. Prizes for the event were donated to the Senior Class by various or- ganizations throughout New Y()rk. Awards included ski lift tickets to the Catamount Ski area and an Hershe:y' s Milk Chocolate llar,\ one young sibling said to her brother. At about 4: I 5 PM, the ducks were released into the flow of the muddy cree 1<. Bobbing up and down, the loJ!sided, upside-down, and right-:si de up plastic ducks fought for the finish line and a chance to I.'Vi n their owner a prize. Ed Dombroski guided along the colorful gaggle by pushing the ducks with a paddle as they got stuck between the rocks. At one p()illt the fl.uorescent ducks earn e to a halt about 50 feet before the fiiflish line, causing par- ents and stu<ients to become anx- ious. \Gosil tile ducks are dead,\ commented Senior Molly Hood. As the rnCJ\) of ducks bobbed up and down~ reluctant to reach the finish lin~ with fluidity, Marc Schwartzsttid, \As much as I like seeing p laostic ducks race, I hope my little gu:y gets out of that slow trap to win n1e a. trip to Lake Placid.\ When the ducks began moving again, pe()p le- rushed to the finish line whHe Junior Trustee Jon Zandman, and Ed Dombroski caught the d1.1cks as they waddled past the designated area. Zandman, d·ressed in a festive duck costume with a Union sweatshirt, a1mmmced the lucky winners. The thir-d place prize we11t to duck #95-Aiyse Tembor, a parent, who won a gift cenificate for two to the But<:her Block Restaurant. Second pl:ace prize went to duck #324-D~nllis Hollenback, also a parent. ll(! was the lucky winner Conti11uoed iln page 4 Women's Crew Races in Philly Parents Invade the Campus Page 16 Inside Campus ·News- 3 Opinions- 8 Technology- 9 World News -10 Features- 12 A & E-14 Sports -16 OurE-m,ail by Shaun Montana Staff Writer Back m the Fall, a letter from Dean Alford went home to par- ents announcing a change in the College's usual schedule. Nor- mally, Parents Weekend is held in the fall and corresponds with an- other important event on campus, Homecoming. This year, the Coilege did things differently. Parents Weekend was rescheduled to the spring, on the same weekend as the Annual Steinmetz Symposium and Prize Day. The administration thought this change would be a great way to attract a bigger crowd to each Steinmetz Symposium presenta- tion. This would make the week- end a more special t1me for both parents and students. Parents Weekend '99 officially started with the beginning of the first Steinmetz Symposium ses- sion at 9:20AM Friday morning . d @ in total, six sessions spanned the concor 0' day with presentations in all the VU, Union.edU different disciplines. Also, nev. ~--------------' to this year, all classes were can- celed for the whole day. This. en- as there were poster presentations abled more students and faculty to in the Nott on Saturday from II attend presentations. AM to I PM. As usual, a banquet was held in President Hull concluded the Upperclass for all student present- banquet by mentioning yet another ers, their families and faculty ad vi- part of the Symposium: the student sors. At the .--------------__,production b a n q u e t , of Jack and Dean Brad- ''As morning Jill at the ley Lewis Yulman The- and Presi- changed (0 dent Roger Hull con- afternOOn, the gratulated the students focus shifted from and faculty ontheexcel- music and reseav·-:; lent work • • they did. to recogntzzng President Hull com- StUdentS fior their mented that no other in- stitution is achievements. \ atre. \'The ad- missiol1 is entirely free,\ in- foimed Presi- rl,.nt Hu II. \I myself am going to see it in four min- utes, S() my remarks will be short. l promise!\ as commit-....._ _____________ ---.~ Also on ted to undergraduate research as Friday night was the Union Col- Union. lege Orchestra's presentation of Afterwards, Dean Lew is went Rvmt~ntic Fa\'orite.1· in Memoria I over the next day's schedule of Chapel. events, encouraging people to at- It featured music that was sup- tend them. He reminded people that posed to he played at a concert the Symposium was not yet done, during Winter Term but was can- celed due to a snowstorm. The winter disaster tumed out to be for- tunate si nee- hundreds of students, faculty and staff were in atten- dance. Audience rnembers were treated to many \beautiful masterpieces. They ind u(!ed Mendelssohn's, A Midsumnwr Nights Dream Over- ture, five :;ongs from Schubert's song cycle Winterreise which were each selectoed and orchestrated by· differe11t Union Students, and Mendelssolm•s Symphony IV in A major. The hi glillight of the concert, Schumann's. Piano Concerto in A minor, VI itil the incredible perfor- mance ofsr0phomore piano soloist Anastas1c Prok horova The co11c~rt Ia~ ted ti·om SJ 0 PM until abo\lt 1 () PM, and added mu- sical cu It u re and class t0 the Steinmetz Symposium. The President's Opening Re- marks started Saturday morning. bright and early at 10 AM with most!~· J'4lrents in attendance There wer.e many activities sched- uled for tlhe e~ll'ly momin!! The

'~Opinions cannot survive if one has no chance to fight for them. '' -Thomas Mann VolumeCXXVIILNumberXXIII The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 · · May 13 ~ 1999 · . . . . http://concordy.union.cdu · _ · · - . . ,. This Week News: Uaion'sNew Comedy Improv Group Page3 Opinions: Student Examines Smoking PageS World News: Israeli Elections Page 10 Sports: Block u Awards Page 19 Inside Campus News- 3 Technology- 7 Opinions- 8 World News -10 A & E-12 Features -17 Sports-18 Our E-mail Four Students Accused of Hazing by David Brooks Editor-in..:Chief Mike Cook, but also said he was said, shooting firecrackers at these two, they are facing the same 110t totally sure. Beaton apparently Beaton and forcinghim to consume charges as Frese and Cook. The also had a blood alcohol level of alcohol. The two will be aJTaigned four will most likely by charged with .15,threetimesthelimitinNewYork 1 later this month. Frese and Cook Section I of the Student Conduct At least four students face con- if you are 21 or older, but Beaton is both deny these charges, saying Code, which says, \Behavior which duct charges by Union College af- underage and New York's legal there were no fireworks, and the threatens or endangers the we li- ter an alleged hazing in- being or safety of others, cident occurred tw<> or results in personal injury • weeks ago, Thursday, to others including haz- May 6. in g.\ Police responded to a Local newspaper have · .• neighbbr's call in which also suggested that Beaton · she described hearing was a ph:ugc of the Delta gunshots near the apart- psilon Fraternity. DU lost ment on 1068 Wendell .its campus residence in A venue. As the police April 1995 after a hazing in- arri:ved, they noticed a c ident. DU is eligible to ap- . · young man, later identf- to return to campus ·. fied of freshmen T next April. \I am n()t in Delta Beaton, running from the Upsilon,\ said Cook. \I'm apartment. Even after not in any fraternity.\ Abe being told to stop, Cross, the executive direc- . Beaton allegedly contin- tor of the Delta Upsilon · ued to nm from the po.. . headquarters in Indianapo- lice. He triedrunningto- lis, said, \Delta Upsilon has ward the street, but the absolutely no connection at .police were able U11ion College. We hope Beaton on the sidewalk. for an eventual return of The police later said that · · .. 1068 Wendell Avenu,_e, the sight- of tile alkge4Jtazing inc.iJ:/eflt.\\· •. , , \ . DU to Unkm (f.fJd ·we have ilieg~n~~~ene~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.·~~~~~~~~~~··~·~~~~~~~·~~ beenwmkfugwi~F~d borsheardmighthavebeenexplod· limitis.02,well~~derB~~ton'~.IS cnly drinking that occulTed were Alford,butweteokafive-yearhia- ing fireworks. Sources close to the blood alcohol level. Despite .the two beers by each Cook and Frese, tus in 1995,\ and ended by saying, case said that after searching the fact that Beaton was not driving, and a glass ofwine by both Beaton \When Union withdrew DU m perimeter ofthe house, the police this demonstrates that he was well and LeBlan(). 1995, the international governing found no alcohol on the premises under the influence. Conduct charges were filed committee jointly withdrew or any spent fireworks. Frese and Cook were then ar- against Frese, Cook, and two other Union's DU charter.\ Dean Alford Beato11 was asked by the police re.sted and taken to the jliniors who were at the house, also stated that DU was sus- whomightha-vebeenhazingbim, Schenectady Police Department AdamLeBlancandanotherstudent pended from the school in 1986, and subsequently pointed out where they were charged _with sec- who wished to remain anonymous. sophomore Matt Frese and j.unior ond~degree hazing for, the police Although Beaton did not identify Cmrtinued on page 3 Union Parties Like It's- 1999 by Jessica Zuehlke News Editor Union College students had the opportunity to engage in another year of listening to music in the sun, enjoying free food provided by Dining Services and playing in the \Nott Carnival.\ Springfest made an exciting return this past week- end, and with it came free fun and excitement in fu.ll force. Lucky for everyone, the day was beautiful. Bright sunlight and tem- peratures within the high seven- ties provided a great accompani- ment to the cotton candy-eating, tan-seeking students. In case anyone was confused, Spring fest came a week earlier this year. This was the only weekend available because the ReUnion is the week after week eight and Steinmetz was last weekend. Pro- gram Assistant Coordinator Liz Scmitt stated, \[The day of Springfest] is pretty arbitrary, We have to work. around things that amount of money. The bands, stage, food, rides, and the outdoor movie set these committees back around $32,000. Music is one of the highlights of the afternoon. In case you for- After their perfonnance, the reggae sounds. of Panagea filled the cam- pus. Late afternoon brought sun- bums to the audience and Method ()f the Groove to the stage. Their Sloan Miller/TC Strangejolk jams during Springfest '99, ofmanydedicatednon-Union fans. During the gig, these and many other energetic individuals danced in front of the stage while others lounged in on blankets and tem- porary lawn-couches. Springfest day would not have been complete without the annual Novelty games. This year's high- light was the Gyro. This circular machine mimics a gravity-free en- viromnent. Once strapped in at the feet and the waist, one holds on to two bars above the head... Next, someone pushes one of the outer circles causing the three circles to intertwine. This ride leaves the brave sot:al spinning in all different directions. Immediately exiting the ride, Erik Lukach '00 commented, \That was awesome! Even though I feel like my stomach is in my ears, I would do it again in a second!\ d @ are already scheduled.\ COnCOJ', ~ · Springiest is a major undertak- got to wake up Saturday morning, a huge stage was set up in front of West College. The opening band this year was the second place win- ner of Battle of the Bands. Boba Fett took the stage around 11 AM. outstandingperfohnance was fol- lowed by the Burlington-based foursome, Strangefolk. This band ended their twelve-week tour with a well-attended show at Union. Other \hard-to~name\ novelty games included the Trampoline Thing. This device allowed stu- dents to do things on a trampoline they never thought possible. Strapped in at the waist, it was pas- VU.Union.edU ing that costs both the Concert ..._ ______ _...._......., _ __,and Social Committee a huge Strangefolk brought a following Continued on page 4 ~ ' '

Campus Life Page 2 • May 13, 1999 • OJuncnrbit:usis Security Incident Report Sunday, May 2, 1999: rres.pass Reckless Driving Mcnday, May 3, 1999,: Larceny Criminal Mischief 1 ndecent Exposure Criminal Mischief Tuesday, May 4, 1999: Fire Alarm Criminal Mischief Cri111inal Mischief Trespass Trespass fire Alarm Wednesday, May 5, 1999: Reckless Driving Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief 1'1mrsday, May 6, 1'99: Crirn inal Mischief Parking Violation .Hazing Friday, May 7, 1999: Driving Violation ·Criminal Mischief Trespass M()tor Vehicle Accident Trespass F;.reAlarm Criminal Mischief Life Safety Violation Criminal Mischief Saturday, May 8, 1999: Harassment Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Fire Alarm 12: l8am Achilles Lot. Juveniles advis.ed ofprivate property status. I 2:45am Fieldhouse area. Operator ideutified. GonductCharges filed and moving violation issued. 3:47am Chi Psi parking lot. Car stereota.kert from parked vehicle. 9:15am Grounds. Several trees vandalized 3:25pm Walkway from Union Ave. to Alexander Lane. Student reported male exposed himself. Incident occurred at @ 11 :30am No Sllspects as ohllis time, Two incidents reported. 6:02pm Vale Cemetery Union College Plot.Headstonestipped over. I 2:38am Richmond .. Fire alarm causedfrom burnt food. 4:29am Davidson Hall. Vandal:ism to f11mitllfe. 2:24am FoxHall. Vandalism to wails. l O:OOpm Silliman Hall. Juvenile trespa~sing in building. Upon officers arrival the suspect wa.s gone. I 0:16pmOffCampus Property.lndivid11al advised of private property status. I 0:31pm Reamer Center. Fire alarm ~aused by damaged detector. I : II am Library lane .. Food vendor dri\Ving reclessly. Stopped and advised ofregulations. Il :25am Fox HalL Main entrance do()r glass shattered. · 9:04pm Edwards House. Vartdalismto thermostat. 2:43am Edwards House. Window sma:shed. 2:55pm New Entry Lot. Outstandingparking violations~· Owner identified and Condu\t Charges filed. 9:D8pm Off Campus. Hazing incident off campus. Student arrested. I 0:37am Whitaker House area. Driver stopped anclidentified Conduct Charges filed. 11 :42am Phi Sigma Kappa. Glass inerttrance door shattered. 2:21pm South Terrace area. Food veudor passing out flyers. Advised of policy. 3: ISpm North Terrace Lane. Property damage accident. 5:0 I pm Jackson's Garden area. Juvelli,les advised !()f private property status. 3:15pm North CoUege. Fire alarm adivated due to cooking. 1 O:OOpm Phi Gamma Delta. Main ell trance door sl!at tered. I 0:04pm Chi Psi. Room smoke detee:tor removed causing fire system problem. I 0:39pm Reamer Center. Vandalism t() TV set. 1 :08arn North Terrace area. On going dispute. Conduct Charges filed. 5:45am West College. Window panes shattered. 11 :I Sam Off Campus. Vandal ism to student's vehi<;le. 6:19pm Reamer Center. Women's Room vandalized. 10: 15pm. West College. Fire extinguisher set off in lounge. 11 :05pm Chi Psi Hallway pull statio'll activated. Life Safety Vioiauon · .Jed Strategies for survival if confronted with assault: * Non-resistance to prevent physical violence * Negotiate * Stall for time * Distracting or diverting the assailant, then tleei11g * Verbal assertiveness * Screaming, using a whistle or shriek alarm to a-ttract attemtion or help * Physital resistance- techniques which may be t1sed as a last ditch effort to escape an attacker. Announcem.·· ents . . Give Blood Thursday, May 20 llAMtolPM in the Da:vidsqn Lounge Term in Washington, Spring 2000 The Political Science :Department announces applications for next year's Washington Congres-- sional Internship program. Forms available at lnfromational Meeting on Tuesday, May 18at4~00 PM inSS 104 Applications due Friday, June 4: by4:00 PM Union College.Spring Scramble Golf Tournament Sunday, May 30 Sign-Up Sheets Available in Campus Center If your organization is interested in spllnsoring the event, contact Erik Lukach at raymonde@union.edu. Proceeds will benefit toe Cocoa House~ Return of the Personal Ads!! E-mail your comments, t~~Dks, annoaymous secret love letters ... anything goes. concordy@vu.mnion.edu Your Tax Money Pays for Murder!! John Amidon wiD give a lecture TONIGHT at 7:00PM in Old Chapel Us bets Needed for Commencement 1999 See Donna Johndrow in the Students Activities Office, Reamer Campus Center Room:408 Check out the New Concordiensis Webpage! Visit http:/ lconcordy. union. edu for the latest look into campus and world news, opinions, sports and features. Robert Avon Smith Summer Research Fellow- , ship in Bio-Medical Engineering at Union CollegeD The fellowship is sponsored by Robert Avon Smith, Class of 1952. It is awarded to students in the sciences or engi- . neering who participate in a summer researclt prf!gram in · bio-medical engineering under the guidance of Union College faculty. The award will be made available to a student selected on the basis of ability to conduct independent research in bio- medical engineering and commitment to the summer research program Students interested slwuld contact Professor J. Richard ShanebrtJok in the Department of Mechanical Engineering. An Ad Hoc Committe Formed to Consider TenurabilityofSusan Lehrman, Assistant Professor of the GMI Any member of the campus community who wishes to offer written or oral testimony con- cerning Assistant Professor Lehrman's teaching, scholarship or college service should contact Professor Hilary Tann at x()566, tannh@union.edu. Reappointment Review of Professor Hyuneji Park Faculty, stud~nts and administrat6rs familiar with Professor Park's teaching; scholary activity, and/or college service are welcome to submit comments to Professor Bonney MacDonald, <;hair of the English De~armen~ at macdonab@union.edu. Ca l Tl siun sue< clas just bott mar sear sttu was noo an Pul tha op) an< int1 pre a c tha ars ( anc dat UJi in~ in no an wl En thl ti<J N< W( po to Fr re: fo nc sic Stl Tl b~ d€ M Tl w p! d! w at

Campus News C!Icm:.o:rhlett~is• May 13, ·1999 • Page 3. Union Celebrates Rese.arch Admission Video Makes Movie Stars Ninth Annual Stienmetz Symposium by Jessica Zuehlke News Editor This year, the SteinmetzSyrnJJo- sium presentations were a huge success. For the first time ever, classes were canceled all d'ay, .not just in theaftemoon. This enai>Ied both students and faculty to attend many creative and scholar·ly re- search proj.ects. \We have been sttuck by how crowded the timing was with everything in the after- noon, .. ' said Dean Bradley Lewis in 12:20 PM forthe Performing Arts wheeling around the bumps and , According to Lundquist, \Union .presentations. Likewise, the holes on the trails. · by Jessie~ Stephens is .the oldest liberal arts college in Yulrrian Theatre welcomed a large During his preselltation, Jenne ', Contributing Writer America and ·it has always been at c.rowd for all productions of Jack used Power Point to illustrate the • the top of the heap. In response to ·(l.JJdJill. Progra~Jbooks wereavail- specifications of his project. The :: Chances are that if you were Union's strength, the school began able through <Jut the campus which chair must be able to support 2~0 · · walking around c:arnpus this past •t() focus inward during the 70's and gave a syn()psis of each student pounds, it must be made from : week, you probably noticed a 80's. During this time, there was a as well as thetirne and location of lightweight materials necessary • group of indivJ<Iuals carrying shift in the market and other schools llis/her presentation. for easy transpovtation, and the ' h ig·h -tech video equipment. began to rely on a more comprehen- The first night ended with a chair must obtain the maneuver- A111:idst the intrigt~ing spectacle sive public relations and recruitment Steinmetz ba11qtietonFriday at 6:30 ability torunoveranythingas well • · were a few of otu very own stu- system. Union did not follow this PM, open toampresenters and their as be reasonably priced and aes- . dents. If you hav.e not yet heard trend.\ g.uests. PrizeDety on 'Saturday con- thetically pleasing. • the news, UnienCollege is in the Schools like Union are not \natu- cllld'ed the evellt in the aftemoon, As of now, Jenne has bui·lt part : process of cre1tti11g a new video rally visible;\ therefore, advertise- after the poste~ sessions and per- of the frame and the wheels have · to promote the school. Dean ment become important. Lundquist Lundquist, Vice President of Ad- added, \Union was not tuned in to e ax.le. His fin- •· m·issionsand Financial Aid, was the fact that they were getting ishe<l wheelchair· eager to share-..-------.,...-----------.beaten in the will be more stable ·information SchO· O· ls ll.ke 'publ·ic aware- tha!l current de- • about the new · · · ness' game.\ signs. H will have: projectandthe TTn·l·On· nre no· f Today,thepro- ettter ability to , reasoning be- V J WI duction of the rough ter- ' hind it. \naturallrl' v· l·s- updated video weigh only 35- • Tllere is no · '.J' is one of the 40p<lUnds and cost · disputing that •hl .,, h ,.;,. n u m e r o us littleas$97l.To• Union can j;· e; t ereJOre, waysinwhich ennet/ Tbe day of pre- · • ented research is · u\''JI\\\''\u to Charlie hold its own, d. • Union seeks to especiallydur- a vertlsements rectif)rthissitu- ing the spring b ation. The with its unpar- ' • ec 0 me video will intro- alleled beauty. , • duce Union to Unfortunately, lfflpOFfanf. amoremassive a lot of poten- '---- ....... -----------'pop u I at ion pool. Thomas Jenne poses with his sister who inspired his Off-Road Wheelchair . &teinmetz who , ·lived from 1865 to 1923. tial applicants do not come close to seeing the carnJlUS first-hand, andthereforea l<>tefUnion 's per- suasion power is :lbst. According Meanwhile, the admissions office has already witnessed an increase in both the numberofapplicantsas well as the quality of students in- terested in the school. Lundquist enthusiastically said that \the Hon- ors Program is proving to be a suc- 'ess story. ln just four years the program has doubled, with fifty.ex- pected students to enter in the fall of J 999. When the program first started, there were just under twenty students.\ an interview with Charlie Casey of Public Relations. \We believed that [the full day] would offer more opportunity for faculty, students and parents to see more oftbe.rnost interesting stuff that we do.\ The presentations also gave profes:sors a chance to show t:heir students that they respect them as schol- ars. Oral sessions began at 9:20 AM and continued until 6 PM. The dance studio was full of people at f()fll1ance by the Union Jaz4 En- semble. On Friday morning, Seni<Jr Tho- rnas)enne gawe~ne ofthe exciting presentations\on campus. In anef- f()rt to help out his handicapped sister, the mecllanical engineer de- signed and is in the process ofcon- structing an o::fl:,road wheelchair. He met ihe challenge at a nature ()Onservatory with his family. The idea for a rnore. maneuverable chair ~ame when his sisterhad a hard time He was the chief to Lundquist, tlie video is in- engineer at the General Electric Company as welL as the head of electrical engineering at Union. This year, the Steinm~tz Sym- posium was a great success. Many students, faculty and par- ents traversed from building to building in order to see various presentations. The successful day full of knowledge offered people a won- derful way to learn about research they might never otherwise learn. tended to \ev()ke an emotional response in peopl.e,, and serves as a r.'pewerful illtr<lduction to the school,\ .intensifying their desire to visit and pCJssibJy pursue Union. Parents Weekend Moved to the Spring Seven years ago, the last Union vide<J was produced. With the college's str011g standing in the academic worlda.s well as an opti- mistic outlook f()r its growing fu- ture, the adm is stons team be- lieved it was an appropriate time to create anew video. Lundquist stated that the g{)a] of the video was '\to tell the Union College .•. Continued fro.m page 1 Union Jazz Ensemble gave art amaz- ing concett from 11 :30 AM to I PM in the Campus Cente1·: There was not a single table empty as parents and students sat to listen and eat while Professor Tim Olsen an <I the Ensemble thoroughly entertained the crowd. The Steinmetz poster presenta- tions covered the first floor of the Nott. Many students and parents wandered around, pausing atthose posters which looked interesting to them. Like the oral presentatio11s on Friday, these posters represented research and work students per- formed over the last year. As morning changed to after- noon, the focus shifted from mu- sic and research to recognizing students for their achievements. The Annual Prize Day cerem()nies began a little after 1:30 PM. Stu- dents and parents rushed into Memorial Chapel as it began to rain. The Chapel was packed in n()time with expectant students and proud parents. Prizes were given to honor aca- demic and athletic achievement, as well as service to the community and college. They were presented by various D~ans and President Hull. Most prizes are awarded to se- niors, but s()me are reserved for freshmen, sophomores and juniors. There are awards in every academic Field. Academic winners are deter- mined by the <lepartment faculty, and service prizes are usually voted on by committees such as Student Forum or the Student Affairs Coun- cil. The cereiito11ies concluded with a rousing re\ndition of the Alma Mater, Ode tr1 Old Union, led by the Dutch Pipers and Garnet Minstrelles. By now the rain had stopped, anel people slowly made their way t() a reception in Hale House. The hum()rous highlight of the weekend was the 2nd Annual Duck Race to benefit the SeniorClass Gift. The event w~s held in Hans Groot Kill, the brook that bounds through Old Union's grounds. 'At 4 PM 011 Saturday, over one thousand Little plastic ducks floated down from underneath the Whipple Bridge to a point near the Fieldhouse. When the race ended; duck ownerswereallowed to take their plastic toy as a souvenir of story in a brief and profound way.\ the fun event. l'he idea to create a new video Coinciding with Mother's Day, . was suggested to Lundquist by many students spent Sunday with Union trustee Fhilip Beuth, a their parents, wliich extended the former ABC executive. The ac- weekend by a day. tual production is led by Bruce Parents Weekecnd '99 officially Soloway, a network promotional ended with the final show of Jack producer. . and Jill. The play, directed by The video is an attempt to Chris Welch and Liam Joynt; and show Union in aunique and per- starring Devon Ciampa and Eric so.nal way. Wisotzky, ran from Thursday Lundquist stated, \Students night to Sunday at the Yulman today get their facts from so many Actors Theater. Admission was sources like guidebooks, print free as the play was part of the pub licati<>ns, aJJd web pages,\ Steinmetz Symp()sium. The video will depart from these Everyone wllo saw it, including · basic resources., ]()sing the \re- President Hull, remarked how dundancy\ of·1lte college process wonderful it was and thoroughly while giving a. tangible effect encouraged everyone to attend a which \gets all emotional re- perfonnance. People must have sponse.\ listened, as each night the theater Most Jleople have heard the was filled to caJlacity. saying, \Unio11 i'S the best kept Senior Liam J()ynt, who co-di- secret,\ and, for the most patt, it rected the play, said, \We had to is true. The scltool is continu· tum people away on Saturday due ously categorized with other first· to lack of space,. al1d on Sunday · tier liberal arts i11stitutions such wehadaboutfortypeoplejustsit· as Bates, Trinity, Bucknell, ting on the floor t() watch. It went Middlebury, atld Williams; how· really well.\ ever, Union's a.]lplication turnout Overall, the weekend was an in· is not always as, lligh as its com- credible success. Both parents · petitors. The an;wer to this trend and students enjoyed the well- . can be found in the school's his- scheduled events. tory. The Honors Program invites stu- dents who .fit the Ivy league profile. With its expansion, Lund.quist re- sponds, \Union always had the top- end, butthe Honors Program allows this top-end to deepen.\ Dean Lundquist's zealousness and affin- ity for Union was revealed when he commented, \The saying, Union is 'the best kept secret,' is also posi- tive. I see it as saying there is a solid gold core here which just needs to be communicated more.\ Clearly others have felt the same as Dean Lundquist because admis- sions continues breaking previous records of number of applicants. Moreover, Union continues its ef- fort to obtain a more demographi- cally diverse student population; there are over 1500 alumni commit- ted to the co11ege's growth and na- tional and international representa- tives in areas like Boston, Texas, Atlanta, Chicago, California and the Middle East. Dean Lundquist recently finished talking to NBC aboutthe admissions process and just returned from meet- ings in Los Angeles. Lundquist concluded, \'The thrill of my job is to see a great institu- tion continuing to grow, a star con- tinuing to rise.\ These recent changes in the Ad- missions program have increased the quality of the school. With the admissions team diligently working in this \Union Evolution,\ the col· lege wjll continue to be a strong aca- demic institution and no longer a \kept secret.\

Page 4 • May 13, 1999 • OO:ott.cnrMensis . Campus News Union Ballerinas Performing in Europe Watson Winner Speaks Performing Arts Steinmetz Symposium Presentations by Kristen Nobles Contributing Writer spent the final months of his swdy in England . byTomiAIJanson Contributing Writer If you missed the performance of Night and Day during the dance presentation held on Friday as part of the Steinmetz Sympo- . ance of Professor Myers in classes at Union for the past four years and also at the Northeast Ballet Company. She is originally from Connecticut, and is still contem- plating her future plans. Madsen is sme that wherever her life may sium, you may havemissed ,--------------------.-....-.:-\'= one of the best dance per- formances in the country. Professor Darlene Myers was chosen as one .of ten choreographers to go on a 13-da.y tour thn)ughout Europe to rep- resent America. .Pr()fessor Myers is also taking the two dancers who performed Night and Day. The dancers are Union se- nior Carrie Madsen and lo- cal dance teacher William· Spillane. They have been dancing for six years and three and a half, respec- tively, but have only worked together for four months. gether, they compliment each • other. When describing Night and Imaginesittinginclassandmore Day, Myers, as well as both dane- or less being handed a check for ers said that it was a celebration $18,000. This is exactly what hap- of their differences, which were pened to 1997 Watson Award Win- clearly demonstrated during the ner Zane Riester. performance. The only difference this year is Many of the lifts and the award is now worth $22,000. positions took strength · While sitting in class, Zane re- . and intense concentration ceived word that he was chosen to perform but were mas- as one of 50 Watson Scholars out · tered exquisitely by the of over 200 .finalists. duo. The dance brought The Thomas J. Watson Fellow-. their styles together with ship Program, fonned in 1968, was a dramatic emphas•is on • designed to grant seniors of lib- . their uniqueness but in a · eral arts co1leges the opportunity way that made it breath- to study abroad and independently taking. for a year. This also allows stu- The piece represents a dents the ability to participate in greatchallengeforbothof · something for which they truly the dancers. Madsen is . have a passion before they are re- chaUenged by the length stricted with future plans. of the piece as well as by Riestet returned to Union 011 her partner, who cha'l.- · Tuesday, May 11 to speak to po- lenges her to perform bet- . tential Watson winners about his ter. Spillane finds it diffi- fully funded independent study. cult but exciting to bring Riester spent an entire year travel- the dancing to the emo- ing Europe as a result of receiving tiona! level necessary to his Watson Award. =\':~=:-:==-~--:.-:-\\:\' express the story wi.thin As a Political Science major and the dance. The dance is History minor, Riester was first in-- about· beginnings and . traduced to the Watson Award by endings and both of the . his advisor, Professor Nichols, in dancers are experiencing the spring term of his junior year. The Art History and Photogra- phy classes he took while attend- ing Union proved to be helpful in his photographing of the numer- ous churches and stations he stud- ied. This project was very important to Riester because he realized that Churches and train stations are two of the most coveted institutions in Europe. According to Riester, \This was a very unique project, one in which I was very interested in studying.\ The two major similarities be- tween Renaissance churches and train stations that Riester found are the lighting and entrances of the, structures. Lighting .adds to the distinctive quality of the building while the entrances serve both functional and aesthetic purposes; \Spending an entire year travel· ing unfamil'iar countries by myself did get lonely at times,\ says Riester. 11 However, it is amazing what you do to ·entertain :yourself. Still, the pesitive aspects of study. ing something you are truly pas- sionate about outweighs any feel· ings of solitude.\ IfRiester had a choice he would make this trip all over again. They were brought to- ' gether by Professor Myers, who choreographs and orchestrates the Northeast Ballet Company at Proctor's Theatre, which both Madsen and Spillane are members. rtesy o let times in their life that con- Throughout the summer before his CarTie Madsen and William Spillane pose before nect with this theme. This senior year, Riester researched, de- their stunning performance ofNight and Day. added to the emotion they vel oped and perfected the pro- Riester has developed a web site called the Rail Road Station Home Page. You can access this site at www. traveLtolrailroadstations. This site includes several struc- tures that Riester photographed himself as well as postcards of dif- ferent stations. The home page also includes numerous links to other sites which deal with Euro- pean and American stations-. P'FOfessor Darlene Myers began teaching at Union in the eighties, but then went on f() teach at the State University ofNew York. She was asked to come back to Union and accepted. Professor Myers stated, \The students at Union are bright and quick, which makes it possible for me to combine classical combina- tions with mental·challenges in my classes.\ Professor Myers also expressed how wonderful it is to be at a col- lege. with a Performing Arts depart- me11t chair like Professor Hillary Tann, who is so supportive of the dance program. Carrie Madsen is a senior at Union and has been under the guid- lead her, she willalways hold dance put into their performance as we 11 posal for his study. as a passion in her life. as the emotion felt by the audi- His project, Temples of Progress, William Spillane was not always ence. was designed tocompare and con- a dancer. He tried several different Pro.fessor Myers and the two trast the architecture of Renais- forms of entertainment including dancers will leave for their Euvo- · sance and Baroque churches with musical and dramatic theatre, in- pean tour at the end of May. They train stations. dependent films, and rock bands. will travel for 13 days in Vienna, He was notified of his accep- 1-Ie put all of those activities on Austria and two cities in Lithuania · tance during the spring term ofhis hold, though, when he found for a grand total of four perfor- senior year and began his study in dance. Spilane characterized dane- mances. July of 1997. His remarkable year ing as his \pinnacle of expression Night and Day excited the ofphotographing and researching and performance.\ crowd last Friday with its wonder- European buildings began when he The two dancers came together ful choreography as well as the im- arrived in Italy. He stayed in a to perform Night and Da;y, which peccable execution of the dance, friend's apartment for four months, was choreographed as well as di- and will definitely amaze the Euro- which saved him some money and rected by Professor Myers. Ac- pean audiences as well. The dance . allowed him to travel more within cording to Myers, the two are in- accompanied many others last Fri- the country. dividual dancers with their own day at 12:20 PM in the Arts Build- With these extra funds, he took style but when they perform to- ing. many excursions to different parts \My advice to anyone with a passion for anything is to apply for the Watson. There is nothing to lose. It is an opportunity to study something that really moves you with minimal obligation. It is an amazing opportunity that yuu will not get again,\ Riester com- mented. Alumnus Returns to Sing in Old Chapel of Italy such as Sicily and Milan, so he could vie~A· a variety of dif- The only requirements during the year abroad are a final paper and quatierly reports dllring the year, including a financial state- ment and a current address. ferent churches and train stations. Riesterstated, 1 'You have to be- His next four months were spent i11 come obsessed with your project France. He stayed in an apartment to win.\. He was very proud to say in Paris, which proved to be rather that he was obsessed, which en- expensive. Again, small excursior1s ab!ed him to win. by Roger McShane Contributing Writer Last Thursday, May 6, Union C()llege graduate Frank Barbarino made a return visit to the campus to perform at Old Chapel. During his four years at Union, Frank inade a name for himself by playing his versions of today' s modem rock all over campus. He is most well known for opening last year's Springfest with his band, Ca1ch22. Frank returned at the request ()f many ofhis Sigma Chi brothers. It was these individuals who orga· nized the concert. Old Chapel proved to be the J)erfect forum. The au<lience relaxed on the plush couches as Barbarino delighted the stLJdents with his acoustic guitar. Jon Kelson was impressed witll the newly renovated social space in Old Chapel, saying, \It was like b~ing at the Coffee House, only a lot cleaner.\ Playing solo and with· out an amp, Frank started off his set with three British pop songs. \The British music was my fa- vorite,\ said Sigma Chi president David Gruner. Barbarino then went on to play four original songs which seemed to raise the energ:' level of the crowd. During his song Sudden(v one student, senior Mike Bush, put on a tremendous display of danct.: teracted with the crowd by an- swering questions about post· graduate life. To the surprise or many students. Frank revealed that he is currently modeling for Abercrombie & Fitch. (He appears in the summer catalogue.) The friendly atmosphere made for an enjoyabl.: evening of good .-------------~ music. Frank even had the crowd \'We were .. .. slngtng so loud, we even got Dean Alford to show up!'\ sing along for his final song, Pa- tience. \We were singing so loud we even got Dean Alford to show up,\ said highly animated senior Dave Stodden. \The show was a success,\ said Barbarino, \though it would have been nice if more people showed up.\ The crmvd numbered only about 20 students, despite the fact that classes had been canceled for Friday. Despite the ponr turnout, the event proved that Old Chapel could be used as a successful so- L---------------' cial space. The return of Frank moves which excited the crowd even fut1her. Frank ended his set with a stirring rendition of the Guns and Roses' hit Patience. Throughoutthe show, Frank in- Barbarino to campus was enjoyed by all who attended. If anyone is interested in reserv- ing Old Chapel for a social event, call Student Activities at x6118. around France gave him the oppor- This year's Watson winner, N. tunity to photograph many differ· Scott Stedman, agrees. \Stick to ent structures. what you are blown away by,\ His final month m France was Stedman added. \After that, ev- spenl in the small ttm n ofNicc. H~ erything eise will fall into place.\ Ducks Race to Finish Line .... Continuedjrompage 1 of an aut,ographed Rosie O'Donnell Talking Doll. The for· tunate first place winner, whose duck crossed the finish line just seconds before the others. was Senior Spencer Wanderer. His duck won him a two-night getaway to the MirTor Lake Inn on beautiful Lake Placid, courtesy of AAA travel. Although not every spectator was a winner, all applauded the fi- nality of the race and the l ,500 dol· Iars raised for the Senior Gift. \It's a good day for the administration, students and parents to c.ome to- gether here to have fun. However, it was disappointing to see so few prof.f.!ssors,\ commented Senior Mike DeMicco. Overall attendance was notably high and people present voiced positive feedback about the pur- pose of the race. \This is a great way to make money for the senior gift.'' Senior Josh Mondlick said. Senior Josh Chaplin !Stated, \It was a fun event that was well at- tended. We had fun organizing it and are happy with the results.'' The fund-raiser helped out tile Senior class greatly. As of now, they need only 5,000 dollars more in order to reach their class goal. ' ' Ca - coil Trut the equ 3P~ wer.1 buil the Yor u disc carr p pan aro1 app hail tht im pi: Sp tic tri, ed er: sh in: so m dt st o1 w th lo ta fc D w L

News Union On Television by Jessica Zuehlke News Editor LastThursday afternoon, Union College made it onto television. Trucks pulled into the campus .in the morning to unload high-teeh equipment into the Nott. Around 3 PM, five large television cameras were set up inside the sixteen-sided building to record a live taping of the dialogue, \Education in New York: What Really Needs Reform?\ Union was not the topic being discussed:, but rather offered its campus as a filming destination. Pre-filmingjitters were very ap- parent. Makeup artists scurried around the speakers, frantically applying cover .. up and spritzing hairspray. Cameras focused in on panelists discussed Welfare Re- form. The schedule of events began with a 90-minute di~cussion of where the New York school sys- tem stands now. This was followed by a short break. Part two of the debate focussed on suggestions for the future and was ended with a question and answer period from the audience. Some of the ten panelists in- cludedSyFliegel, President of the Center for Educational Innovation, Lewis Golub, ChiefExecutive of the Golub Corporation, parent com- pany of?rice Chopper Supermar- kets, Richard Mills, Commissioner of Education, and our own Terry Weiner, Professor of Political Sci- ence and Sociology at Union. Signs Giving Away Beer Informational Lecture Considers Drinking on Union's Campus byLisa Carbone Staff Writer Are you aware of the critical signs for alcohol poisoning? Do you know where to get infonna- tion about alcoholism and sub- stance abuse services? Are you familiar with the New YorkState . Laws regarding alcohol? Do you think you might have a drinking problem? Ifyou are uncertain of your ability to drive, do you con- sider the ef,fects drunk-driving ·may have on innocent people? Topics and questions such as 'these were all discussed at :the Alcohol Panel on · Thursday nigll.t, May 6, in :the College Center, spon- . sored by Theta Delta Chi. The panel was com- . posed of pe()ple who are effected by alcohol either through their daily job or due to personal experi- ences. Participants who spoke about services pro- vided by particular orga- nizations included coordi- nator of Alc()holism and Substance Abuse Council \Forty-four percent of Schenectady County residents an~ lifetime mari- juana users,'' according to Jones. Following Jones, Cashmere ex- plained the steps their program has taken to prevent people from driv- ing under the influence. Some of the steps include creating a situation where a convicted individual cannot plea out of drunk driving charges. This guilty person will be convicted ofDWI no matter what the situation entails. Cashmere added, \There is a 98% conviction rate in Schenectady County.\ Secondly, mandatory fines are set very high, ranging from$300-$5,0()0. hoi abuse. He made it clear that these things happen to all types of ordinary people. The other two panel members, Barry and Chris, told of their per- sonal accounts with alcohol. Barry, now a counselor at Conifer Park, told ofhispersonalprohlems with drugs and alcohol as well as his struggle to overcome the addic- tions. After almost killing himself and a friend in a drunk driving motor- cycle accident, he realized the rami- fications of alcohol abuse, and, es- pecially how his poor choices could have killed others. Chriis · . of Schenectady County, Assistants [lX hair and makeup of panelists for public television. the faces of the panelists as their images showed on monitors placed throughout the Nott. Speakers practiced their introduc- tions while the host nervously tried to ease the tension. NBC 13 anchor and managing editor Ed Dague acted as the mod- erator of the event. Before the show, Dague joked, \This is go- ing to be very exciting. I've lost some weight and I am afraid that my pants are going to fall down during the taping!\ Ten seconds before the director yelled action, Dague asked, \Wish me luck!\ The Graduate Management In- stitute at Union College was one of the sponsors of the show that will air on public television around the state ofNew York. This dia- logue is the fourth in a series of talks dealing with recent law re- fonns. The first dealt With Electric Deregulation, while the second was about Health Care Reform. Last year, during the third dialogue, The purpose of the discussion was to tackle the problem of low Regent test scores in New York while considering possible changes that can be made to raise learning standards. Recently, the Legislature has pas-sed and the Governor has signed a bill permit- ting the formation of Charter Schools. These schools serve the purpose of improving school per~ formance. The dialogue attempted to address these tough issues as well as to establish solutions. On a prerecorded video clip, Governor Pataki stated, \We are changing education for the better.\ After the debate, a reception was held in Hale House for ail in atten- dance. The three-hour event was taped and will be edited into a orie-hour program that will air on public tele- vision. The show will be on WMHT/ Albany, Schenectady on Monday, June 7 at 10 PM. Watch to see the inside of the Nott! Do you want to be published? Come w:r;ite for Concordiensis Meeting today at 6PM in College Center 303 Inc. Nancy Jones, officer from the Schenectady Po- lice Department Jack Hamilton, and Schenectady County STOP-DWI Coordinator Denise Cashmere. Jones informed the audience of the changes that the. counci I would like to implement on cam- . pus as well as in the community in efforts to bring down alcohol and substance abuse in SchenectadyCounty. This coun- cil of which she spoke consists of individua.ls, agencies, and schools from the local area. \Al- though there are not many bars and there is low alcohol availabil- ity compared to other coanties, handsome sums are collected for alcohol related fines each year in . Schenectady County,\ added Jones. In addressing this issue, she stressed the importance of teaching bartenders when to stop serving customers alcohol in or- der to avoid problems that in- clude DWI, alcohol poisoning, . and unnecessary death. As far as the problem of sub- stance abuse is concerned Slaon Miller/TC Denise Cashmere gives important facts about alcohol abuse. The organization has also added many new programs to stop DWI, which are supported by the money collected from arrests. \Over $30 million is collected on DWI state- wideperyear,\ remarked Cashmere . To successfully implement these programs, specialized officers and counselors have been hired to as- sist with education. She also covered the administra- tive consequences of a DWI. .For example, after conviction, insurance will double for 3-7 years, and the guilty person's license will be sus- pended or revoked. Next, Hamilton, member of the Schenectady Police Department, briefly commented on the conse- quences of alcohol from a legal standpoint, including the New York's no tolerance law. \Alcohol has more ramifications than driv- ing,\ declared Hamilton. He deals with fights, misdemean- ors, trespassing, abuse, and many other violations on account ofalco- worked hard to become a counse- lor. lhishad been his goa\ in \ife ever since he hurt himself. Chris' story was quite different than Barry's, because Chris had been the innocent victim when flis brother was killed by a drunk driver. He told the story of the night it all happened with incredible com- posure. He closed with the phrase he firmly believes pe()ple should follow: \Life is way more important than what people think of you. If you are around people drinking, you must be responsible and stop them from driving.\ Overall, this was a very complete panel which touched on all the main aspects of alcohol and the conse- quences it brings. Although only a small crowd attended, every wit- ness to this panel l~ft having gained valuable knowledge as well as some more common sense con- cerning Union's m()st coveted tool: beer. Colorado Crisis Demands Blood Doners by Siraj Bhadsavle and Caroline Fink Contributing Writers Kappa Sigma and Tri-Delta are . sponsoring an American Red Cross blo<>d drive to be held on Thursday, May 20, 1999 at Davidson Study Lounge from II AM to 1 PM. Appointments will be taken Monday, May 17, through Wednesday, May 19, at the Cam- pus Center from l 0 AM to 2 PM. Accordilig to Ellen Hardy, a staff member at the Red Cross of Albany, the United States is ex- periencing a significant shortage of blood. With the recent Colum- bine High School massacre and Oklahoma tornado disaster, the past 60 days have drained an already depleted national reserve. Hardy stated, \In Colorado, over 480 units of blood (one unit is the same as one pint from one person) were used on the kids just outsidt: the school before they were taken to the hospital. And that was only 60+ in jured people with 13 fatalities. \In Oklahoma, there were over 550 people injured with 50+ fatalities. I don't know how many units ofblood we used down there, but I know we are desperately low on blood.\ Schenectady is part of the New York-Penn Region of the American Red Cross. The national office requests. a cer- tain number of units from each re- gion annually for \routine\ medical procedures. This does not include those needs associated with natu- ral disasters or accidents. In 1998, the NY -Penn region was asked to collect 256,000 units for routine procedures, but was only able to provide 230,00() units. Tllis year, not including natural disa.s- ters and accidents, our region needs to provide 330.000 units of blood for routine procedures! The Union Blood drive is very important for our local Red Cross branch. Walk-ins are welcome dur- ing the collection time. but to help the nurses and staff we are asking that donors sign up in advance as stated above. Take the time to do something good. Take the timet<> save a life- please sign up as soon as possible in the Co liege Center.

Page 6 • May 13, 19?9 • C!I.nru:nrbiensis ·Campus News Student Elections Hit Union's Campus With Force by Shaun Montana Staff Writer You know spring has arrived when the campus becomes cov- ered with signs of all types and styles, loudly proclaiming \Elect Me!\ The elections for next year's Student Forum were held last week. Depending on how you read the numbers, you might wonder just how many people ignore signs, or how effective those signs are. Those vying to become movers and shakers in Union's student government participated in an elec- tions debate last Wednesday at 8 PM in Old Chapel. Not counting the candidates for the various positions, there were about twenty-five people present. While candidates for all positions spoke, the debate was actual'ly for the two most important positions: Junior Trustee and Student Forum President. Conducted by current Senior Trustee Jon Zandman and cunent Forum President Bet11 Wierzbieniec, the debate lasted al- most two hours. Everyone in at· ten dance, by the time it ended, had a really good feel for what the can- didates stood for and how they would perform if elected. Every- one running for the various VP slots: Multicultural Affairs, Cam- pus Life, Academics, Finance, and Administration, was aliowed to give a two-minute speech. Some who could not attend provided something for Zandman to read. None of these positions, how- ever, had more than two people running for them, and in some cases, there was only one person running. Once the VP speeches were done, the debate shifted to the call- dictates for Junior Trustee: Jon Lemle, Erin Aloan, Steve Schuler, and Alen Gershkovich. The Junior Trustee positioll is especially important because it is a two-year term and also is tile stu- dent voice to that most powerful of bodies, the Board of Trustees. Each gave two-minutes of open- ing remarks about what they want to do. This was followed by pre- pared questions asked by Zandman and Wierzbieniec, cov- ering everything from what they think of the role to how they feel representillg the interests of two thousand people. Each answered in tum, reveal- ing their goals and ideas for the position. Then the floor was opened to audience questions for format as the Juni()r Trustee de· bate. The two candidates, Mike Winn and Greg Auerbach, spoke: eloquently and enthusiastically about whattlley wollld like to do if elected. Each had solid answers to both the prepared questions ami the questions the audience pro- vided. Both candidates lame11ted the fact that they were speaking to friends and people they knew, and that the debate probably wouldn't change those people's votes. Thursday morning at 10 AM the illg booths, complete with curtains and little levers to move down. This facilitates the whole. process, es- JJecially with regards to counting tile votes and determining final numbers and winners. The results were known not long after the polls officially closed, Each candidate had the oppertu- nity to submit a letter to the Concordiensis and a picture, and those who did were p1,1blished last week. A copy of the pages with these letters was right next to voting booths, allow- ing voters to read-up at the last minute. Sophomore Joe Ehrlich, who came out to vote lateintheaftemoon, commented, '\I was at the debate last night and 1! was disappointed at the tumout. I' was surprised and disappointed there are only two candidates for Student Forum Presi- dent.\ Sha11nom Conaty/TC N~w Student Forum President, Mike Winn promfses to lead the Junior Damon Carr chose not to vote in the elections, and com- mented on how when candidates were going around to get their peti~ student body into the millennium. a few minutes. The most interest- ing question of the night had to be what they would do about the small turnout that can be typical for events. Each candidate offered id.eas, especially for the debate, al:>out what could be done-such as ltold- ing it in the daytime outside ofthe College Center-most of which will probably be incorporated nextyear. Finally each was given one last closing remark to close his/her de- bate. Next came the debate for St11dent Forum President; the position serves as the highest representa- tive and loudest and strongest voic~ for all Union students. and is thus arguably the most impor- tant. It followed exactly the same campus was covered with eve,n more signs aimed at convincing students to vote for a particular candidate. The otttside of the College Cen· _. ter entrance was also crawling with the various candidates for pos.i,- tions, dressed up and speaking to anyone and everyone who stop to talk. In some cases, tlley shouted as people with no intent of stoppirag; passed by. The p()Us opened at l(); AM next to the CC Auditorium ancl stayed open until slightly after 4- PM. Latecomers were turned away once the ballots were deemed offi- cially closed by the curreni Stu- dent Forum members who we11e working the polls. Students votedusing actual vot- tions to nm signed, he would ask them questions before: signing. \In almost all cases,\ he: said, \they really didn't have aru answer for his questions, whicll surprised me.'' He did mention that he had voted the previous two years. A crowd who didn't vote anti! the last minute commented on how the lines had been out the door after classes were done in the morning, but they didn't want to wait in line . Those current Forum members who worked the polls seemed to enjoy themselves, and success- fully convinced many passer-byes to come and vote. Senior Class President Josh Chaplin, who worked the polls all day, saiCl, \We've had a lot of fun out here. I think the turnout was really gooci. Even near the end, ffi()St of th.e ca~tdidates remained outside the front entrance to the College Cen- ter.'\' Auerbach: said that standing <>utside talking to people definitely lleiJled. \When you talk and tel'l y(lur ideas to people face-to-face, 1hey really appreciate it. Winn be- lieved a higller tum out would ha:ve helped me. I also think a higher debate turnout wouU have cllanged a few things. But there:- ally interesting race is tbe Junior nustee race:.\ A loan, standing right next to him at the time, said she thought the ,e 1ections wou:ld have been better on Friday. She also believed that aHowing stlldents to vote for multiple can- didates woaldn't help or hurt her. '\l' m not in favor of that for these elections. 1 think there's a better system for electing the Class Rep- resentatives.\ ]n total, six hundred fifty-one students turned out to vote, about thirty-two percent of the ap·proximatly two thousand stu- de-nts on campus. It was possible to write-in candidates, and Zandman commented that there were a lot of write-ins. However, only one of these re- cedved significantly more than a few votes, which was not enough to win. The 199~ w·inners are as follows: VP of Multicultural Affairs Debbie PeUish; VP of Campus Life Paul Stewart-Sand; VP of Academics D:anette Slevinski; VP of .Finance Brian Roache, VP <.>f Administra- tion Christy Weafer, in the cl()sest r~ce of the: day; Jr. Trustee Erin Aloan, in another·close: race; and mew Student Forum President for 1:999-2000Mike Winn. By no means are we done see- illg signs or being asked to rn ake a choice in the voting booth. The freshmen, sophomore and jtinior classes still need to elect rep- resentatives for next year, and soon we' II be swimming in a sea of signs and candidates again. Student Forum Notes RITE AID - Photo Processing Wednesday May 5, I 999 Meeting called to order 6:30 PM OFFICER REPORTS Administration-Lynch-Commit- tee applications in. Interviews next week. No applications for COC. One application short for Campus Facilities. Campus Life-Roache- .Spring Fest May 14, I 5. Tshirt sales to begin after elections, $6 during week, $8 at Spring Fest. Ne:ed slots for dunk tank. Security is- sues: pot smoking during concert not tolerated .. Multi-cultural Affairs-Bennett- ASU/Shakti dinnerproblem worked out. Trustees-Zandman- Election to- morrow, May 6. 9 AM- 4 PM. IFC-Lemle for McKinney- Ex:tra Greek Week tshirts still available. Pan-hel-Caruso for Okeefe- Sue Dorowski VP Rho Chi, Molly Shaner VP Rush. Penny wars next week. THC-Eletz- Band Fest, Sunday May23. Seniors-Chaplin- May 17, senior Wine and Cheese. May 18, sellior dinner with Pres. Hull Thursday senior night at Chets. Juniors-Barry- nothing. Sophomores-Aioan- nothing. Freshmen-Markowski- notbing. OLD BUSINESS I. Yulman Theater letter. Wierzbieniec- met with Dean Coo 1. New policy sent to Bill Finlay. No auditions during I Oth week or exam week, Union students are first choice for all available play roles, Finlay to improve rel!ltion- · ship with Mountebanks and stu- . dents on campus. 2. Equipmentpolicy. Discussion on proper use of equipment. , Shelly Ducatt put in charge of equipment, and money for usage goes to Student Activities holding account- Zandman NEW BUSINESS I. Caruso- AT Miller denied ten~ ure. Letter writing cam}}aign. Wednesday night, radio show I 0-11 :30 PM. Disscussion. Forum to make statement of support for student movement. Agenda tabled. Adjourn 7:40 PM. Go to RITE AID for All ofY our PhotoN eeds RITE AID is located on Van Franken Ave (518) 382-330 p - - M:J AA AF AM BI BI BI Bl CE Cr cr EE EE EC EC FI GI G! H~ H! H! H: II J: Li M: M' M p p p p p p R 8 8 8 ~ A A c E E E E E E I l ·1 1

Page 7 · May 13, 1.999 • <!l~n.~:.orbi.ensis Final ExamS<;hedule . Final Exam Schedule Sp.ring 1999 M)NDAY:, .:rtm 7, 1999- 8:30-J.O::;!O 11M AAH*013*01 Intro to Art History ~ 3 AFR*025*01 Black Religion AMU*024*01 Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven BI0*012*02 Cells & Organisms w/Lab BI0*025*01 Molecular Bio of Cell w/Lab BI0*128*01 Aquatic Biology w/Lab BIO*l47*01 Immunology w/Lab CER*l61*01 Highwy Engg/Route Survey w/Lab CHM*l52*01 Physical Chemistry 2 w/Lab CHN*Ol2*01 Basic Chinese 3 CSC*037*01 Structured Programming EER*048*01 Semiconductor Devices & Circts EER*100*01 Electrical Engineering History EGL*022*01 Major American Authors 1 EGL*040*01 World O·f the Bible FRN*011*01 Basic French 2 GEO*Ol6*01 Oceanography w/hab GRK*Ol2*0l Greek Reading HST*058*01 The Holocaust HST*076*01 Black Religion HST*083*01 Mystics,·Magic & Witchcraft HST*121*01 Arner Constitutional/Legal Hist IMP*013*01 Int Math/Physics 3 w./Lab JPN*132*01 Advanced Intem Japanese III LAT*012*01 Latin Reading MER*050*01 Heat Transfer Anal/Desgn w/Lab MTH*031*01 Linear Algebra & Diff Equation MTH*053*01 Visualizing the 4th Dimension PHY*017*01 General Physics 1 w/Lab PHY*045*01 The Solar System PHY*045*02 The Solar System PSC*060*01 Policy Making & Arner Society PSY*010*01 Intro to Psychology PSY*038*01 Pevelopmental Psychology RUS*012*01 Basic Russian 3 SOC*010k01 Intro to Sociology SOC*138*01 Africa:Social & Demographic SPN*l21*02 Intenuediate Spanish 2 MONDAY ( JUNE 7 I 1999 .;.. 11: 30 AM ~ 1:30 PM AAH*04'5*01 Contemporary Art & Architec ANT*01s•·o1 Intro to Archaeology CHM*016*01 Inorganic Chemistry 1 w/Lab EGL.*066*01 Victorian Detective Fiction FRN*121*01 Intermediate French 2 PHY*015*01 Physics/Life S~iences 1 w/Lab PHY*015*02 Physics/Life Sciences 1 w/Lab. PSC*142*01 Urban Political Problems PSY*030*01 Personality PSY*045*01 History & Systems in Psych SOC*Ol0*02 Ihtro to Sociology SPN*120*01 Intermediate Spanish 1 MONDAY, JUNE 7, 1~99- 2:30 - 4:30 PM AAH*·017*01 Pilgrimage 1 :St. James-Santiago ACC*OlO*Ol Survey of Accounting ANT*050*01 Women in Cross-Cultural Persp ANT*080*01 North American Indians BIO*Oll*Ol Contemporary Biology w/Lab BI0*051*Dl Ecology w/Lab CER-012-03 Camp Aided Gra~h & Draft CER*022*01 CE Naterials w/Lab CER*l53*01 EC0*041*01 EC0*125*01 EC0*151*01 EGL*055*01 GE0*050*01 GMI*151*51 MLT*029*01 PHL*035*01 PSC*012*01 Wastewater Treatment w/Lab Microeconomic Analysis Efficient Mgmt of Technology Monetary Economics Shakespeare to 1600 Petrology w/Lab Monetary Economics Pilgrimage l:St.James-Santiago Philosophy in America Intra International Politics PSC*066*01 Presidential Politics PSY*025*01 Experimental Psych w/Lab SOC*010*03 Intra to Sociology SOC*022*01 Social Problems & Policy SOC*132*01 Public Health:Cultural Perspec WST*090*01 Women in Cross-Cultural Persp MJNDAY, .ruNE 7 , 1999 - 4 : 4.5 - 6: 45 fM CSC*144*51 Functiona~ Programming CSC*236*51 Computer Network Protocols EER*236*51 Computer Network Protocols MER*205*51 Metallurgy Principles MTH*Ol5*01 Calculus 3 MTH*015*02 Calculus 3 SPN*011*02 Basic Spanish 2 TUESDAY I ·.JUNE 8, 1999 - 8: 3Q - 10: 30 AM AAH*021*01 The Modern City BI0*130*01 Animal Physiology w/Lab BI0*140*01 Molecular Genetics w/Lab CER*l44*01 Geotechnical Engg w/Lab CHM*040*01 Quantitative Chemistry w/Le~b CHM*118*01 Inorganic Chemistry 2 w/Lab CHN*120*01 Intermediate Chinese l CLS*025*01 History of Rome CLS*025*02 History of Rome CLS*,043*01 Classical Mythology CSC*040*01 Computer Organization EER*OSO*Ol Analog Communications \1:1/Lab ESC*023*01 Mech 3:Strength of Mat w/Lab ESC*023*02 Mech 3:Strength of Mat w GER*l21*01 Intermediate German 2 GER*122*0l Advanced German HST*014*01 History of US Since Civil \War HST*014*02 History of tJS Since 'civil War HST*014*03 History of US Since Civil War HST*036*0i History of Europe 2 HST*036*02 History of Europe 2 HST*050*01 Western Imperialism HST*16B*01 History of Modern India PHY*042*01 Ideas of Mod-ern Physics PSY*020*0l Statistical 'Methods/Psychology Eyerman, C. Cor::l ey, s . Mci'1uJ:len, D. Crawford, A. W. Salvo, J.L. Tobiessen., P. Lai!Jz:on, R. Wolfe, F.A. Hayes, D. Feng, J.P. Gxeen, E. A. Chan.g, Y. Spinelli, J. Slade, L. I:Ie:ine gg, P. Batson, C. Braadris s, M. E. Mace,, s. Berk, s. C0:n:ley, S. Sa:rgent, S. Heilry, S. Ba:rbanel/Dunn Khan, Y. Scullion, J. S WUk, R. ZuJili, L. Ce.rvone, D.P. Ko-opman, R. Surman, R. Marr, J. Un.derwood, J. Greenberg, S . Stanhope, L. JDrdan, B. Co·tter, D. Benefo, K.D. Camacho-Platero, L. Ey:e:rrnan, C. Ces.arski, E. Scaife, C. Par.k, H. Van·Deventer, S. DeBattista, R. Ehosropolir, N. G:ii.l..man, T. Spring, D. Donaldson, G. Ben.efo, K. D. Mosquera, D. l'lat:thew/Martinez Lippitt, Jeanette Gmelch, s. Bishop, C. 'V'IiLling, R. Brown, G. Gremillion, P. Gbaly, A. S:rlOW, p. Reynolds, B. S-::hrrridt, S.S. R..afferty, M. H•einegg, P. H·ollocher, K. Rafferty, M. ~ratthew/Martinez I ... udwig, J. I..obe, T. ·Brown, C. . t1o:rling, B. Grigsby, J. Relyea, 1 .G. Goldner, M.A. Gm€lch, S. H8ll\rnendin.ger,D Spinelli, J. Spinelli, J. . Milillo, F. Rosenthal, K. Rosenthal, K. Nochon, M. Young, M.S. Fleishman, L. ilorton, J. S. Ghaly, A. ~erner; T. l!agerman, M. :Feng, J.P. 'Toher, M. :Balot, R. · Sorum, C. Hemmendinger, D. Hassib, E. Bunk, D. Blinn, M. Hamm-Ehsani, K Hamm-Ehsani, K F'effer, A. Henry, s. Miller, A.T. B.erk, S. 1\T<~lk:.er, M. Hansen, E. Dias, M. Schick, K. Stanhope, L. ~SD11Y, JUNE B, 1999 - ::l,l. ::30 AM 1:30 :EM ARTS 215 .AAE:I)I,029*0l American .Art ARTS 109 1\J.!U*'O !2*01 Language of Music ARTS 313 CJ!t1\\0 10*01 Basic Chinese 1 BAIL 106 E:EB\'O 66*01 Control Systems w/Lab HUMN 01.9 ·E1ID!\\012*01 Basic French 3 BAIL 102 .FJ1N\\'L30*01 Modern rrance/France actuelle STZH 106 GEB\\IHl*Ol Basic German 2 OLIN 110 . GFI\*138*01 Greek Lyric & Elegiac Poetry BUTR 300 HIE*012*01 Basic HebreVI 3 OLIN 105 H.S'1*028*01 African-1\merican History 1 HUMN 014 · H:S'T..-()71* 01 Modern History of .Middle East NWSE 2 2 2 JIS'l'*L69*01 Colonialism./Imperialism:Asia NWSE 21 0 JP:t!\\D12*01 Basic Japan€se 3 HUMN 112 MrJ!\\'Dl2*01 Calculus 2 HUMN 115 SSCI 010 • PffY'*.OS6*01 Interm ·E1ectrornagnetism w/Lab OLIN 307 PS>C'*Ol3*01 Intra to Political Thought PSJ''*Oil0*02 Intra to Psychology HUMN 113, COLC PSJ''*03 3 * 01 Psych of Memory & Thinking ARTS lOg SP'N'*Oll*Ol Basic Spanish 2 SSCI 112 SP'N'*Dl2*02 Basic Spanish 3 HUMN 114 ''IUE.sDA.Y, JUNE 8, 1999- 2:30 - 4:30 :EM NivSE 112 • AAJ1\*036*01 !list of Gardens/Landscape Arch SSCI 213. MT\*067*01 East Asian Development ARTS 210 · BC0*036*01 Invertebrate Zoology w/Lab NWSE 205. CSC *160*51 Software Engineering BAIL 201 Eh.S *014*01 East Asian Development/Society SSCI 014 EOO*Ol4*01 East Asian Development/Society NWSE 300 EC0·*042*0l Macro Theory & Policy NWSE 114. EGL/019*01 Major English Authors 1 BUTR 109 ESC*018A*Ol Computer Science HUMN 117 ,ESC*Ol8A * 02 Computer Science BAIL 312 f!ST'*116*0l Origins of American Society BAIL 104 HS:I\*167*0l East Asian Development/Society OLIN 211 l'HL'073*0l Environmental Ethics BAIL 2 07 :PSC*019*01 East Asian Development/Society SSCI 105 :l's~*024*01 Social Psychology HUMN H6 :PS¥'*031*01 Abnormal Psychology :PS¥'*046*01 Intro to Psychobiology ARTS 215 SCC*{)24 *01 SoGial Psychology SSCI 110 ,SCX::*()51*01 Race, Class&Gender in America OLIN 204 !:STA-.*111*01 Intro Mathematical Statistics HUMN liO \'IST'*<l83*01 Race, Class&Gender in America HUMN 117 'JOE,~, JUNE 8 I 1999 - 4 :45 - 6: 45 R-1 NWSE 114 CE~*Ol2*01 Corrp Aided Graph & Draft w/Lab NWSE 116' CSC*010*01 Computers & Computing OLIN 211 .CSC*Ol0*02 Corrputers & Computing BAIL 312 CSC*010*03 Corrputers & Computing BAIL 300 CSC*075*51 Corrputer Logic & Math SSCI l.Q3 C:SC*129*51 Neural Networks HUMN ° 19 CSC* 1'52*51 M' 1croprocessors <:SC*231*51 ARTS 215 ' .EER* 129*51 BAIL 106 ~ER*152*51 Computer Language Translators Neural Net~orks w/Lab Microprocessors SSCI 103 ~1*262*51 Intnl Bus & Competitive Theory SSCI 010 NBR*201*51 Transport Phenomena ~~ gi~ lillR*260*51 Nuclear Engineering & Technlgy S~A*202*51 Statistical Methods BUTR l06 108~, JUNE 8, 1999 - 7:00 - 9:00 EM BUTR 300 BUTR 109 CER* 012*02 Comp Aided Graph & Draft w/Lab SSCI 014 • CiER*131 *51 Structural Steel Design w/Lab OLIN 106 · E:EB*226*51 Optimal Control Systems BAIL 100 · ·.t-rnR'.216*51 Finite Element Methods in Engg HUMN 117 m:DNF.SDAY, JUNE: 9, 1999- 8:30 - 1.0:3b .AM OLIN 332: BIC}'\012*01 Cells & Organisms w/Lab BAIL 100 BIO*l60*01 Histology & Organology w/Lab Transportation Engg w/Lab Survey of Ancient Epic ARTS 215 CEffi*l60*01 HUMN 110 (1~*031*01 ARTS 109 EG:L*075*01 Late 19th Century Amer Lit BAIL 201 GEt0*012*01 Environmental Geology w/Lab OLIN 307 GIU~'-\012* 01 Basic Gexman 3 HUMN 115 HST'-\044*01 BAIL 207 .JP'N'-\122*01 SSCI 104 .ME:R\*026*01 SSCI 103 ME!R\*045*01 MT'H\*OllC*Ol The Second VJor ld War Era Intermediate Japanese 3 Thermodynamics Dynamics & Kinematics w/Lab Calculus with Precalc 3 Young., M. S. McMullen, D. Feng, J.P. J;atic, V. Leamon, A. Batson, C. warde/Kellenter Balot, R. Almog, M. Niller, A. T. Berk, s. Dias, M. Khan, Y. Hart, J.E. Newman, J. Marso, L.J. DeBono, K. Greenberg, s. Izurieta, I. Witkins, M. Matthew, L. Reynolds, B. Boyer, B. Almstead, L. Reynolds, B. Reynolds, B. Rafferty, M. Hilles, C. Hannay, D. Hannay, D. Wells, R. Reynolds, B. Vitek, W. Reynolds, B. Morling, B. Vanslyck, M. Weisse, C. Marling, B. Goldner, M.A. Schmee, J. Goldner, M.A. Spangler, C.H. Almstead, L. Hedrick, J.N. Glynn, M. Traver, C. Rudko, M. Gajjar, J. Green, E.. A. Rudko, M. Gajjar, J. Chudzik, M. Shanebrook, R. Wicks, r. Oppenlander, J Spangler, C.H. Griggs, F. Fatic, V. Keat, w. D. Danowski, B. Smith, G. Wolfe, F'.A. Mace, S. MacDonald, B. Rodbell, D. Warde/Kellenter Hansen, E. Wojnovich, M. Shanebrook, J. Bucinell, R. Taylor, A. NWSE 1 Hi • MrH*Ol7*01 calculus 4: Integral Vector Frame, M. NWSE 114 MI'H*099*01 Intra :Logic & Set Theory Cervone, D.P. NWSE 114 HrH*130*01 Complex Analysis Zulli, L. NWSE 222 MrH*132*01 Abstract Algebra 1 Niefield, S . BAIL 207 i?B¥*019*01 General Physics 3 w/Lab Newman, J. BAIL 207 BJ~*010*01 Basic Portuguese 1 Villela, S. HUMN 114 :FSY*034*01 Psychology of Language DAndrea, T. SPli£*012*01 Basic Spanish 3 Garcia, W. ARTS 21{) SPJII*121*01 IntennediateSpan]sh2 Wiilins,M HUMN116 HUMN 014 · . BAIL 312 ' \t!EDHESDAY ( JUNE 9 I 1999 - 11 :30 AM - 1: 30 1M BUTR 3 o 0 • CBR* 151 *01 Hydraulics w/Lab Jewell, T. STZH 106 ECO*Ol2*01 Introduction to Econ.omics Tomljanovich, M. OLIN 204 EC0*012*02 Introduction to. Economics Tomljanovich, M. SSCI 213 GE0'\053*01 Structural Geology w/Lab Garver, J. I. HUMN 115 · M'1H'060*01 Mathematical Political Science HUMN 117 1 M'1'W060*02 Mathematical Political Science ARTS 215. M''.!H*\135*01 Number Th.eory OLIN 106 P:SC*\023*01 Mathematics & Politics NWSE 116' P.SC*\023*02 Mathematics & Politics HUMN 01~ WEDNESDAY, JUNE 9, 1999- 2:30- 4:30 EM HUMN 011) C.:JIM*012*01 Fund Chemistry 2 w/Lab HUMN 11~ C~*012*02 Fund Cheocastry 2 w/Lab HUMN 119 P'HY*018·•ol General Physics 2 Vi/Lab SSCI 112 I?'HY*018*02 General Physics 2 VI/Lab HUMN 114 :plf'i*121*01 Observational Astronomy SSCI 103. Taylor, A. z i.rrme lJXlaill1, K. Johnson, B. Taylor, A. Zimmermann, K. Martinez 1 L. J. Hageman, M. Reich, G. DeBattista, N. Koopnann, R. ARTS 215 ARTS 313 OLIN 105 NWSE 210 OLIN 211 HUMN 014 HUMN 115 HUMN 113 SSCI 105 SSCI 103 SSCI 104 SSCI 110 HUMN 213 BAIL 100 NWSE 303 ARTS 109 BAIL 312 BAIL 300 HUMN 112 BAIL 102 ARTS 215 SSCI 112 BAIL 106 OLIN 106 SSCI 112 SSCI 112 SSCI 103 HUMN 114 HUMN 019 HUMN 019 SSCI 110 SSCI 112 HUMN 112 SSCI 112 BAIL 300 BAIL 312 BAIL 104 BAIL 312 BAIL 201 BAIL 100 BAIL 201 BUTR 106 OLIN 306 OLIN 307 OLIN 107 NWSE 116 BAIL 104 OLIN 106 S'TZH lOb BAIL 104 OLIN 106 HUMN 019 NWSE 222 NWSE 205 OLIN 307 · BUTR 106 BUTR 300 NWSE 116 NWSE 205 SSCI 014 BAIL 207 STZH 106 HUMN 110 SSCI 110 OLIN 307 HUMN 115 SSCI 104 HUMN 213 NWSE 222 NWSE 205 BAIL 100 OLIN 107 BAIL 102 BAIL 106 BAIL 104 NWSE 116 HUMN 117 BAIL 300 HIJMN 014 OLIN 307 OLrN 115 OLIN 115 OLIN 332 BAIL 100 BAIL 207 HUMN 014 BAIL 100 BAIL 207 OLIN 115 OLIN 115 NWSE 116 NWSE 114 OLIN 301 SSCI 104 OLIN 115 ARTS 109 BAIL 106 NWSE 114 Visit the Concordy website at: http://concordy. union. edu BAIL 300 1!.;----------------------------.....a

Page 8 · May 13, 1999 • (!lottcnrnieusis The Way We Were ... On Parents' Weekends OP/ED Caught in a Dining Services Catclt 22 Tile \attitude\ tllat you thought dom, no one bothers to com~ up you saw from the West College with a good way to distribute the dining room employees was pro b.., remaining food without breaking ably not pleasure in throwing away sanitation rules. We can't be both.., of Upper Dining (there is an occa- sional article about that, as well). · So, who is to blame for our little Dining Service \Catch 22?\ Once upon a Patrents' Weekend there were cheers from crowds ()f stu- food each day. It is much more likely ered. I guess we would just rather dents, parents, faculty and administration in the bleachers and on the that the employees feel angry be- waste and complain about it. sidelines ofthe Union College Football field. In previous years, an Octo- cause they are forced to thr.ow food Dining services always prepared ber Saturday at one o'clock marked the official start for a weekend 0 away. They are not allowed to bring enough food to satisfy all the stu- bonding. The f<lotball game brought together the many Union families, it home or give it away. We have dents needs. Actually, they pre• who perhaps came from brunch and remained occupied for the duration many sanitation rules and regula- pare way too much food. Instead of taking respot~sibi'lity and perhaps finding a solution to· gether, We:do what we always do .... we satisfy ourselves by just blam- ing someone else, and forgetting about finding applicable solutions. Sincerely, of the game (at least three hours). After an often sun-filled day onthe hill · tions, which prohibit any logical This is because students 'think alongside of Pi:li Delta Theta, parents would return to their hotels for a distribution of the food not con- nothing ofthrowing away much of nap and shower,.while their children did the same. Dinnertime wasin the sumed within a certain time period. what they put on their plates. If near future. Tllis used to be a typical Union College Parents' Weekend Bacteria, is part of the problem. you doubt it, just .stand by the Livia Carroll schedule. And, in @Ur infinite wasteful wis- wastebinsdu.ringanymea:l in West SecretaryM.L.Department Thoreof~whoaren~fu~~uQud~~h~eb~ome~~~omed.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tothefamiliarfaHvisit. Ourfreshmanyear,thosewhosefirsttimeitwas Parents' Weekend- A Parent's Persp·. ective away from home~ found comfort and familiarity in .seeing our parents two months after bei11g far away. The first two months of school are by far the ' ~---.....l....,.....--------- Lem I e. There were so many post- expense-paid trips to Ellis hospi- most difficult, as change and adjustment are draining to the heart and · by Lis Kidder ers for the Lemle campaign left; ort tal.\ mind. Separati()n anxiety, whether on a conscious or subconscious level, Opinions Editor campus that parents assumed he 3. That a giant outbreak of leaves us fee ling a little bit alone, even if we are surrounded by new was the professor who was denied Menengitis, caused by that gro~ friends, faces and experiences. No one's face is more comforting than This past weekend, parents of tenure. Walking into the campus tesque squirrel running rampant that of our pare11ts. students came to Union to visit center, confronted with the sign around campus with no hair on its We old sch<Jol students know all too well the beauty of having Parents' their children in the thrilling annual \Do you Know? Do you Care?'' tail, will be contained by a mass Weekend in the prime time of the autumn season. Nothing replaces the . event, \Parents' Weekend.\ It was vaccination of stud~nts this week. awe that both vve and our parents experience whfle taking that familiar wonderful to see parents and stu- 2. That single mothers are re- stroll through Jackson's Gardens or finding ourselves vividly aware of dents enj.oying the college to~ quired to pay for their own brunch the lighting on the Nottjust before a sunset. This spring we saw none of gether. Parents marveled at the on mother's day. U11ion College is, that. Even nice weather could not have taken the place of that traditional beautiful campus, and enjoyed the after all, a corporation and we have and comforting October weekend. art exhibit in the Nott (after they . to make motley at every opportu- This year instead of a Football game there was a duck race. Attendance· had been assured that the build- nity so we can purchase more golf was commend.ai:Jle, but the time frame of about 20 minutes could not ing in the·center of our earn pus was carts; FRED's long lost siblings: compare to a three-hour game. There was no time to sit on the side of the not really a phallic symbol, but a Astaire and Alford. creek and boncl or lay out a blanket and enjoy a picnic. Parents were space ship in which select Union 1. That Parents' Weekend spirited as were students who rooted for their ducks, which were bought students will eventually be trans- should be moved back to the fall. in support oftlle Senior Class gift, but it just was not enough. ported t()Comet Hale-Bopp). Although parents got an accurate According t-() the admiQjstration, this change was partly because they Many parents used this week- picture of the average amount of des·ired to see more parents attend each Steinmetz Symposium presenta- end as a chance to gain a better parents gleefully shouted, \'We activities on campus, it would have tion. No one can argue with that philosophy, but when it came to the under~tanding of their child's life know! Trust Lemle!'' thinking that been a better weekend ifthere was Annua\ Prize Day ceremony, most prizes were awarded to seniors, whose and env\ronment. In an e~it-poll of they were \hip\ to Union's issues. more to do. When parent's week- parents were not as well attended had it been fall term. Myriad senior parents Jeaving the campus Sun~ 4. Thatthe seven yearmed. pro- end was held in the fall, there was classmen commented on the fact that their parents were going to be there day morning, these are the top five gram teamed upwith Chi Psi Satur~ a football game to attend and it was for graduation, just a month later, and that the scheduling of Parents' things they said that they learned day nightto provide a \completely early in the year, so homesick fresh- Weekend for the spring was rather inconvenient. The weekend was well during Parents' Weekend: alcohol-free costume party, with man were more likely to appreciate thought out, l>utthe timing just did not cut it. 5. Til at e'Veryone can trust door prizes which included two a visit from their fam:ilies. &~~fu~~~~~w~~~~~~~~~~~~-----A~---.----~---------------------~ relieved and reassured about seeing our parents closer to the beginning . Me·ssage From Safe Space of the academic year. Change is good, tradition is better-we liked the waywewere. SAS It was not yo.ur fault. (([ou.corb:-i.ensi5 The Student Newspaper of Union College Since 1877 Schenec:tady 's Oldest Newspaper Br.o()ke Barylick - David Brooks EDITORS~ IN-CHIEF Jaime Chandler Erika Mancini EXECUTIVE EDITOR EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Elisabeth Kidder OPINIONS EDITOR Jessica Zue!JII\e NEWS EDITOR Brian Terliruli.y SPORTS EDITOR Scott Scullb11 FACULTY ADVISOR Kimberly R~IIback A & E ED ITO!?. Sloan Miller Cory Silken PHOTO EDITORS Victoria Hargreaves SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR Neil Routman WORLD NEWS EDITOR Jon Kelson Michael S. M.:Guire COPY EDITORS Danielle Devine Amanda Jackson ADVERTISEMENT COORDINATORS Steve Mortefolio PROMOTIONAL MANAGER P HOTOGRAJ' HERS: Chip Crary, Shannon Conaty,Jennifer MacDowell, Jeremy Messler, Sloan Miller, Dave Meguerdicllian, Leah S-Baker, Rebecca Wal!;h. STAFF: Matt Aronowitz, Jeffrey Ausfeld, Steve Ayers, Jessica · Brearton, Gina Campanella; John Carbone, Lisa Carbone, Heather Clements, Erin Connoly, Jim DeWann! Mary Felton, Stephen . Flaherty, Peter Flynn, Heath Fradkoff, Matt Gendron, Lori Greene, · Sarah Harsll, Courtney Hayden, Mike Iger, Clark Jones, Jon Kelson, Daniel Kelllnunovich, Jordan Li:ppman, Hugh Meyer, Sloan Miller, Shaun Montana, Stephen Nemetlt, Brian Roache, Steve Scltuler, Kate Schmidt, Mark Shemel, Eugene Shultz, Adam-Paul Smolok, Rory Stern, Lee Stevens, Jon Tapper, Charles Tuthill, John Zandman. It doesn't m·atter what you said or wore. It does n~t matter if you were friends with, or dating your attacker. It was not you who acted inappropriately. You are not alone. There are people who are willing to help. It's okay to feel depressed, scared and angry. Just don't give up. Safe Space Beeper:# 1-800-283-2255 pin: 11349 Letter Policy & Disclaimer Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 PM the onday before publication. Letters must be less than 500 words and should pertain to an issue that ooncerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing a submission belong to the Editorial Board. All letters must be signed and saved on a high density disk, although the author's name need not appear in the newsp&per, ifthe writer so specifies. Letters do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and of no one member in · articular. Any opinion columns or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not ~c~ssari.~y the opinions of the Editorial Board AdV.ertisements appearing in Concordiensis do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofthe Editorial · oard. ConciJrdiensis:is.p$1.tedby·WoddM¢~i'a, ll04Cen{taJAvenue, Albany, N¥,.12205. Sci&; Scie - w, tuna1 mos1 the c exan you the I Hl hard to si hie. get loud eye~ Hic 1 dis.t hie. teac you fau bod you fac€ Hie see1 of gla1 and aw~ trig anc olo I tric OC< dOl brt: acl ,. kil tic of pr cc h~ m UJ si fc m Sf eJ a! e: it a b r~ s n s 11 r t I I

Science & J\ech~ology ®oncnrbi.ensis • May 13, 1999 • Page 9 Science & Technology ~bat are Hiccups? byVictoriaHargreaves erly,the diaphragm lowers during their cure is also unknown. Old . Science and Technology Editor · inhalation Of air into the lungs and wives' tales are just as accepted raises during exhalation of air out a:nd tried' .as doctor's recommenda- An Anonymous Internet We've aU had them aad unfor- oftlle lungs. But when it becomes tions. S()rne of these include:. tunately,. they usually occur at the irritated; it moves irregularly, oaus- breathing into a paper bag, drink- most inopportune times. Just as ing a breath to hit the voice box ing watedrom the \wrong\ side of the class. quiets down to take an oddly, which produces a hiccup. the glass, eatingsugarquickly,get- by Steve AyErs Staf!Writei' exam, your bodydecideste plague Most hiccups are caused by eat- ting scared, gargling with water, One of the advantages of col- you with a case of •'~\\. ------------------------------------:.sipping ice lege is the high speed Internet con- the hiccups. i. Htt;: .;; water, and • nections, which stude11ts can ac- Hic hie. You try; ,;Htt.~ i. ..,.:,.'.C. 'l ~ h o I d i n g i cess through dorms or ·public com- harder and harder. one's breath. : puter labs. When 1 first oeame here, to stop them. Hie ' t-.'i.l t::...O ,.. c.., Pres c rip- . : l found this a welcome imp· rove- ?_... - hie. But they only A 1'-- ·~ ..... . r ........... ' tions also ex- ment over the sluggisll modem get louder and ist to quell dial-up connection at my own louder. Hie hie. The hiccups. house. But this convenience eyes turn to yoq. A scien- • turned to a hindrance as I found Hie hie. Youarethe tist studied : that my work and frie:nds began to 'li.J ' ' distraction. Hie 1 23 Ian- :, take second placet() ,the allure of hie. Now the guages and : cyberspace. teacher turns to . discovered · This may have been the begin- you as if it is your that in most · ning of what University of Pitts- fault your entire , of them, in- burgh professor Kimberly Young body is betraying · c I u d i n g has referred to as hlternet Addic- you. Hie hie. Your ·English, the tion. Several mcmthsago, Young face turns beet red. . · word for hie- sparked controversy with a study Hie hie. What . Ctjp was. suggesting that Inter-net use has. seems like an hour . o n o m a t - · addictive characteristi-cs. www.learn2.com of nothing but opoetic,. that She reportedthatintternet usage glares, snarls, t.tnd' stares passes irtg too much food, eating too is, the word sounded like the ac- . of over 38 hours per week was and then your hiccaps finally go quickly, swallowing air while eat- tion. probably indicative.()[ an addictive away. ing, drinking carbonated or alco- Sources: behavior. She has. sinc:e published Hiccups have troubled and in· holic beverages, an upset stom- http://KidsHealth.org/cgi-bin/ a treatment manu11.J ()11 Internet trigued man since the time of Plato ach, orfeeling nervous or excited. print_lliit~bold.pllkid/question/ Addiction, entitled \'Caught in and Hippocrates, but their physi- Usually, hiccups are completely hiccup.btml?hiccup#first _ _:hit the Net: How to Rec()gnize Signs ologic11.l function is still unknown. harmless and disappear within http:/fpharminfo.com/pubs/msb/ of Internet Addictio11 a11d a Win- Despite previously proposed in- rni.nutes, but rarely hicr;ups can be hiccups24l.html n ing Strategy fm Recovery.\ tricate theories, a hiccup simply painful and relentless, indicating a http:Jiwww.healthy.net/library/ She also maintains a web site occurs when the diaphragm, the more serious condition. lfhiccups bookslhealthyself/ch ildren I devoted to this topk. dome-shaped muscle involved ill persist more than several days, hiccups;htm Robert Kraut.ofCamegie Melon breathing that sits.abovethe stom- medical attention is advisable. http://www. unxpress.n et! reported that as little as a few ach, tightens. When W<lrking prep- Just like the purpose ofhiccups, -oastiennon/webdoc2l.htm h{)urs of Internet use per week The Latest in Technology A Look at Some of the Newest Advances by Jeffrey A11sfeld Staff Writer Instead of focusing on just one kind of new technology, this ar- ticle will be a preview a num:ber of the new and hottest emerging products presently hitting the consumer market. To start off, a new vision-en- hancing device for firefighters can now see though the dense smoke up to three meters accurately. Vi- sion has always been a problem for firefighters wben attempting to - make a rescue. This new device is sensitive up to a 2.75 degrees Falrr- enheh change in temperature. It also provides the resolution nee· essary to make the critical rescue in a deadly situation. One other added bonus is that the imager broadcasts the thermal image t() a remote location f()r training and surveillance. At a price tag of al- most $19,000, thisimagerisa real score for the fire-fighting commu- nity. For those of you who listen to music while you;re involved in the latest home improvement project, the DeWalt tool charger/ radio is just the thing for you. When plugged into a wall socket, it now charges spare tool batter- ies in under an hour and plays radio music at volumes l~><ud eaough to overcome the work· shop noise. As an added bonus, a tool battery can also power this radio f()r over eight hours when an outlet is. not an available option. This technology should be avail- able by next month for under $150.00. Are you tired of brushing your teeth in the morning and at night? Technology might have j11st ma-de the toothbrush obso- lete. A new, liquid; toothpaste literally prevents the bacteria that we are so eager to get rid of from even c(}Jlecting on our teeth. It is a p<llypeptide, or chain of amino ac- ids., thai blocks the sites on teeth that the bacteria use to attach to <>ur teeth. The liquid toothpaste can be incorporated into a mouth- wash arid during its test phase, the subject's teeth were bacteria free fer the full length of the study. Just think: teeth can be cleaned after lunch without much hassle at all. Hate needles? A new era of diagnosing instrumentation is aboutt() make its debut in the medi- cal community. The first is a ne'edle-less device that determines jaundice in infants prior to being discharged from the hospital. The device analyzes the light spectrum emitted by the red blood cells under 1he infant's skin without ac- tually puncturing the skin. Jaull- dice is a condition, where the in- fant cannot break down the pro- tein bilirubin, and a build-up of this: pr()tein can cause brain dam- age or death. Other non-invasive device:s include a glucose monitor for diabetics and a device that de- tects ro.alignant cancer cells. It looks like a positive step in tbe right direction for those pesky • blood tests. Tired of always having to tape one TV show while watching an- other~ As you probably have real:.. ized hy now, hit TV shows are a]:.. way:s put head to head. Taping is no longer necessary with a new device.called_ replay TV. This isa digital recording device capable of recording up to 28 hours of tele- vision. Don't like how all the good shows are all packing into one evening? Well, just create your ()Wn nighttime schedule and for tltose sports games the instaat replay is just waiting for you.r command. Starting at $700, this is a necessity for the television fa- natic. There are of course many more new inventions but neither space · nor time penn its the discussion of them all. Further questions, re- quests and/or recommendations can be directed to my e-mail ad- dress: ausfeldj@idol.union.edu. could lead to deJJression and loneliness. In a pr-oject called Home Net, Kraut gave 73 fami- lies in the Pittsburg.h area free Internet connections. After two years of observatiom. the partici- pants experienced elevated levels of depression and lo11eliness and spent less time with family and friends. Some have found claims that the lnternet can actuall, ~e:ad to ill ef- fects hard to belie'\'e. Vanderbilt University professor Donna Hoffman hascritici:zed Kraut's re· search design in H()rne Net. Like many students, 1 depend so heavily on the I11temet for a.ca- demic work, that a:n Internet Ad- diction probably vvouldn't have any great effect 011 my behavior. Nonetheless, some hiave accepted these claims whole heartily. Ironically, the lfltemet contains many resources f()r treating Internet AddictioJt. Kimberly Young has founded The Center for On-Line Addiction (www .netaddictiotJ.com), offering background infonnation and coun- seling on Internet A.d<liction. Young claims thllt she founded this resource because psycholo- gists dealing with Internet Addic- tion were difficult to find. Coun- seling is offered tluough a ''Virtual Clinic\ at prices apparently de- signed to encourag:e a speedy re- covery, withEmaiilat $15 per\ses- sion\ (one message is one ses- sion), online chat room or phone (both at $55/sessioll). Dr. David Gte:enfield also be- lieves in cur~g lr~temet Addiction through the Internet. This web site (www. virtual-addiction.com) offers similar information, as well as up- dates on his treatment manual, to be published in the near future. Apparently, new users are most vulnerable to Internet Addiction. This includes college freshmen, who may tum to the Internet when they are cut off from family and friends. Some have never used the Internet before, or at least not at the high speed ofT3 a connection. Many online services are targeted to audiences in that age group, providing music and entertainment services. Whether or not the Internet ac- tually is an addiction itself, it can add fuel to other addicti<lns such as gambling. Gambling web sites allow users to place bets with their credit cards, using software utili- ties which resemble vi dee games. They are among the most popular sites and allow an even more con- venient method for compulsive gamblers to place bets, from the comfort of their own home or dorm room. Other students may not even be aware that one of their friends has a problem. Many of the negative side ef- fects of the Internet may come when we use it as a substitute for real world interaction. It may be an irony that as we develop more methods for communicating with each other, we actually find our- selves more isolated. In cyberspace, concern for our own safety obligates us to remain anonymous. Screen names need not reflect real age or gender. Hence, the interaction which oc- curs online is not as meaningful as that which occurs in real life. The effort to translate real-world concepts into cyberspace is eas- ily observable. Analogies between the Information Superhighway and highways made of asphalt have been taken to an extreme. Many free web domains set up user accounts to resemble geo- graphic locations, such as Geocities (www.geocities.com) which organizes its accounts in \neighborhoods and Angelftre (www.angelfire.com) which orga- nizes its users under directories named after state. These may be attempts to make the Internet a more familiar, tangible place. There have been many benefits from the development of the Internet and communication in general, but these have also made some of our human limitations more apparent. Dealing with these limitations is as important as any technological obstacle we encounter. Actual conversation and face-to-face in- teraction can't be replaced by email and chat. The glow of a phospho- rous screen is a poor substitute for the sun. Perhaps the real lesson is that computers are a poor substi- tute for leisure, and we should not let virtual fun substitute for the real thing.

. Page 10 • May 13, 1CJ99 • G:tomor~en~is World News NATO Bombs Chinese Embassy; Outdated Maps Blamed llyStephen Nemeth Staff Writer The contin11ing airstrikesagainst the Yu- goslaviang()vernment took: a dramatic tum late Friday a:fter it had been learned that US satellite-guid~d bombs dro}lped from a B·2 Stealth B()m ber had mistakenly hit the Chi· nese Embassy in Belgrade killing three Chi· nese journalists and injuriag 20, ·Soon after tile bombs hit, Serbian media began to den()unce the US and started cov- erage that showed people being evacuate<! via fire ladders from upper floors ofthe em- bassy, whicb is located in :a section of the capital known as New Belgrade NATO im111ediately began to reassess their selection of targets throughout Yugoslavia and the Unitec:l States begall to revive a fa]. tering relatiollship with China. The Chinese government, upon receipt of the informa- tion, dema11ded that the UN meet in emer- gency sessiort to discuss what they called lt: \barbarian act.\ Late Friday ,the UN met in emergency ses- sion to disc11ss Chinese demands for a stron~ condemnati<JnofNA TO's action. After tw<J hours of intense debate a divided general assembly ~o11ld not agree on language fora resolution regarding the attack. The Clli- nese pushed for a strong condemnation b11t the United States, Great Britain, and the al- lies would only agree to an expression <Jf regret. French diplomats off~red a compromi~e in which tile Security Council would ha'Ve taken note of all the apologies issued 'by NATO co\intries and acknowledge that ~n errorhad been made. The,Chinese reject€ld that offer. Aftertlie long session, China's UN repre- sentative V()iced his opinion. \We a.re greatly sll:ooeked,\ said Cllina's UN ambas- sador, QinHuasan, in a statement. \NATO's barbarian a.ct is a gross viclation of the UN charter and international law and laws g()v- erning intemational relati()ns.\ The statement also called for NATO to be held responsible for consequences of the bombing. '\We call on NA ro to stop imme\- diately its military actions so as to avoid further hum11nitarian disaster,\ the stateme11t added. Later, the Chinese ambassador to Wash- ington, Li Zhaoxing, added llis opinion ()U CNN. \They were so indifferent. They sim- ply said: 'Well, we're sorry.' Then they shrugged their shoulders and walked away. \'We demandthatU.S.·IedNATOtake ef- fective actions to positively react to the sol- emn demands of the Chinese side,\ said Zhu. The President offered a public apology for the embassy bombing on Monday be- fore opening a confere11ce on youth vio- lence. \I apologize. I regret this.\ He also stated that he had contacted Chinese Pre- to those involved. In· China, the event spurred thousands of Chinese to go t~the streets and protest in front ofthe American and British embassies and consulates hEeijing. At the American embassy, protesters hurled rocks an<! gas bombs at the com- pound, forcing US Ambassador James Sasser to take cover in one building as the compound wa·s cDnstantly assailed by fly- ing debris. On Sunday Sasser, called the US and re- ported his status. \We're surrounded by a cordon of police. Demonstrators have Officials at the Brookings Institute expressed that while the bombing is a low point ofChinese-Am·erica.n re-· lations and a tragedy, the protests .. and position of the government may be to deflect attention from allega- tions of,China 's theft ofAmerican nuclear and technological secrets. mier Jiang Zemin to offer condolences but added that it was \important to draw a <lis- tinction between a tragic mistake and a de- liberate act of ethnic clea11sing.\ The President also went on to state, \[T'he embassy bombing] was an isolated, tragic event while the ethnic cleansing of Kosovo ... is a deliberate and systematic crime,\ he said. \Until the NATO conditions are met, our campaign will continue.\ With President Clinton's public apology, one of China's demands that were issued to the US Ambassador t() China by the Chi- nese government were met. The others were a public and full investigation into why the bombing happened and severe punishment started arriving C~gain this morning,\ he told CNN~ \The embassy building itself ... has been damaged l>y [objects] thrown, in bteak· ing windows, atld Molotov cocktails that set at least two fires. in the embassy last night and yesterday:·~ On Tuesday, Cbinese military police were out in force to kf:ep the peace, while crews cleaned debris from the previotls day's pro- tests. Small orderly groups were allowed to march peacefully while a spokesman implied the violent siege ()f embassies- and attacks on Westemjourllalists- would no longerbe permitted. These protests come on the heels· of a recent protest in which thousands of Chinese staged a: (Jllietprotest at Tianamen Square in !Support of the reli~ion Falun Gong and also tllree weeks before tbe. tenth anni- versary ()fthe Tianamen Square protests and subseqrrertt reprisal by the Chi11ese military -a date .the Chinese are treating \Very care- fully. Back in Washington,· Defense Secretary WilliamC()henand CIADirectorGeorge Te- net issued a joint statement that blamed the error on <Jutdated maps and fauJty intelli- gence that placed a weapons ce11ter at the site oftbeChinese Embassy. The s1~ttement said that b()mbimg Instruc- tions came from a 1992 mapthatwas reviewed in 1997 and again in 1998. However, none of the revi si.qns noted the new loca.iion of the Chinese. Embassy, wh.ich relccated four years ag(). It said that from now on the State Departme11t will contact the intelligence com- munity whenever another cou11try moves an embassy or builds a new one. Cohen went on to state in tile statement ' that tne inteHigence commullity will strengthen procedures for .deve]().ping tar- get information, includill'g thos(l; for updat- ing map~ .. The statement also stat~ that the Defense Intelligence Agency artd the Na- tional Imagery and M~pping Agency will speed up the process for updatirrg critical databas~ for no-strike. targets. The statement also went ()Jl to say that the CIA made the initial target suggestion that led t() the bombing and stated \Those involve() in targeting mistakenly believed that the Federal·Directorate ofSupJlly and Procurement was at the location that was hit,\ th.e statement said. Offici~ls at the Bro()kings lns;titute ex- pressedthat while the bombing is. a low point of Chinese-American relatiorrs and a trag- edy, the protests and position of the gov- ernment may be to deflect attention from al- legatiotls of China's theft of American nuclear ~nd technological secrets . While the bombing has hurt US-China re- lations,officials expressed optimjsm that this temporary setback can be resolved to help rebuild .a relationship that hacl tong been declinin~. Officials also in<iicated resolve to conti11ue bombing operations and. hope to prevent a mistake like thi:s from happen- ing in tile future. Body of 1924 Ploneer Found on Everest: Mystery Still Remains by Roger McShane Staff Writer In the early part of this century, Georg-e Mal1ory made mountaineering a worldwid-e attraction .. He was the Charles Lindbergh ()f climbing. Mallory made famous the coli- quest ofthe previously unconquerable Mt. Everest. A pioneer in his field, Mallory, wllen asked Wh.y he wanted to climb Everest sim- ply replietl, '\because it is there.\ After two highly publicized unsuccess;ful expeditions Mallory artetnpted to sumrn it Everest a~ain in 1924. On June 8, 1924, Mallory(a38-year-old British school teacl1er} and AndreVI Irvine (a 28-year-old Cambridge student) left their camp, some 26,800 feet 11p the .north face of the moantain, with the in· tent of summitti.ng the 29,028 foot peek. lt would be th.e .last time anyone would see them alive. Last Saturday, May 1, climber Conr<1d Anker ami a group of four young diml>ers found Mallory's body at about 27,000 feet The group is part of an expedition that is retracing Mallory's and Irvine's route i11 ClJl attempt to find the bodies. Moreover, 1be group is trying to figure ot1t whether Mall<~ry and Irvine actually made it to the top of the mountain. The first successful attempt on Everest occurred in 1953 by Sir Edmund Hillary and \i'enzing Norgay. Mall<>ty's attempt, some thirty years earlier, was a much harder task. \Every step was a step into the unknown of high altitude physiology,\ said Everest vet- eran Dave Brashears. The mountain's sub- zero temperatt~res and dry air have left Mallory's bodywvell preserved. According to some reports, Mallory's leg was broken and his shoulder damaged suggesting that he may have fallen to his death. Mallory's goggles were reJJorted to be in his pocket whell the body was found, lead- ing many to believe that he survived ~is fall. and then froze t() death. There was no evi- dence, though, of whether Mallory fell on the way up or the way down from the sum- mit The SIICarch is still on for Andrew Irvine's body. Stich a discovery may provide con- clusive evidence as to whether thdwo climb- ers ac1llally reached the peak ocf Everest. [rvine i~ thought to have bee11 carrying a metal Ko()dak camera. With the tremendous pub1ic attention be- ing paid to the two climbers, it is assumed that iftluy had made the sumfllii it would be capture<! on the film. Kodakhas said that the con<litions on the mountain would pre- serve tlte film. The mystery ofMallory and lrvi.ne remains unsolved. The Mallory and Irvine Research Expedition, led by Eric Sim ons<>n, will con- tinoe lo()king for clues 27, 00() feet above the world. No matter what new cllles the expe- dition discovers, Mallory will always be looke<l ttpon as a trailblazer for future at- tempts at Everest. In the 75 years since Mallo~' s death, 150 climbers have died while ttying to ascend the mountain while 600 have reached the top. George Mallory popularized the adventure of mountain climb· ing and .captivated the European public with his daring attempts on Everest. c aJ s~ T a~ d 0 f B A f ( j t 1 I J t I

World News <a:11mor.bien!6is • May 13, 1?·CJ~• Page 11 White House Summit Discusses Media and Youth Violence Issues discussed consisted of Goth Music, Violent Movies and Television, Graphic VidelJ Games by ))avid Gruner Stqf{Writer In the wake <lf the tragedy in Littleton, Colorado parents are now more pr<me to anxiety and the safety of their children at schooL Accordi11g to a recent CNN!USA Today/GaBup Poll, 5S% of659 American adults whowere· interviewed and surveyed do not feel the schools are as safe as they once were. In response, the Clintoll· Admin- istration held a s11mntitmeeting at the White House in order t<O discuss such iss11es. President Clinton and .First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, along with Vice President AI Gore and his wife, Tipper, h<lsted over fifty participants,. ranging from America Online's chief e-xecutive to poet Maya Angelou. All those pres,ent collaborated for a day in response toColumbine High School, try- ing to make some sense as to what took place approximately two weeks ago. The students have returned to C'lasses, yet are still in awe as to the reaso:Jts for such a catastrophe. From the get-go, Clinton made it apparent that the conferen'Ce at hand was not intended for blame to be ~laced on anyone in particu- lar, butwasto\shoulderresponsibility.\ The nation must not dwell on the past; instead, the nation must mow devise a plan that will hinder any such horrific youth-related inci- dent to ever take place again. One such proposal is for lawmakers to implement a program whereby all school districts are to administ~r set dress ~odes that \damp the self-indulgent angst of trench-coat Mafiosi but also r~strain the preening of joGk.s.\ Running parallel, restrict \fans of 'Goth' music~songs about death, whose devotees favor black clothes, metal jewelry, and youth violence. [sitbecause oftheparents, media, the entertainment industry, and so forth? Are the parents to blame for their childrens' actions ()r is it the fault of the video games and sorr_g lyrics? Clinton.remarked tllat much of the respon- sibility lies with puents, challenging them to better watch over their kids and not allow \We have to ask the people who produce things to consider the consequences of . them, whether it's a violent movie, a CD, a video gaf!1ee If they are made, they at least should not be marketed to chil- dren. \ President Clinton corpse-like makeup.\ Whatever is said or done, whether it come from ~onservatives or liberals, there is one underlying point-the neecl to find a solution soon, or else vio- lence on an even bigger scale will loom above at the hands of unrelentless savage beasts, similar to Mr. Harris and Mr. Klebold. At the conference, President Clinton asked the U.S. Surgeon General David Satcher to prepare a report on the causes of them to partake in any sort of violent games or television program- \if no one consumes these products, people will stop producing them. They will n()t build it if you don't come,\ Clinton said .. Yet Clinton also made reference to the people who produce such things as games of that sort and said, \And so, we have to ask the people wh() produce things to con- sider the consequernces of them, whether it's a viol(!nt movie, a CO, a video game. If they are made, they at least should not be marketed to children.\ Aside from the debate o.,..er the parents versus capitalism, there is a11other issue that must not be dismissed-howte> prevent chil- dren from obtaining guns. Yes, Clinton pro- claimed, guns are a right given to us by way ofthe Second Amendmentand should not be taken away, but there is still a need for stricter laws in the purchasi11g of guns. The American publicmustknowthatthe streets are safe from gun carrying criminals and the only way to do tltis: is to approve harsher measures taken aga.inst known con- victs who would like to own his/her gun. Clinton also announced at tile meeting that some representatives of gu:.n owners and manufacturers would suppOlrt some of his gun control proposals. How much rope they will offer Clinton is yet to be determined. Littleton, Colorado may cnly account for one shooting by two unbecoming and ruth- less individuals, yet there is more underneath yet to be discovered-a prfmary reason for the detailed coverage and slll>sequently the summit held at the White House. For sure, there is more to come with more questions to answer along the way. Law- makers must realize the severity ofColum- bine High School and begin to take action condemning an event of similar stature in the future. FrenchO ICial· Denies ln~o ~~ e~ en t !!! ou!!?ol~p~e~:r.!£~.or- Milosevic Bluffs Retreat y ea er amp b' Tt.. . h b. f 'd' (f ... GuT-. 't ltallt ... ue state lS now t e 0 ~ect 0 rl 1- ~~aJJ rr rz er 1 · C · b I th ·A d 'd' C\1' e In ors1ca, ut not on y ere. n · n !- France's new prefect to Corsica pledged culerarely showsmercy.\ to restore respec1 for the law aftertbe former In frontofthe French Nati()nal Assemb,Iy, prefect was fued for his possible tink to a LionelJospin denied any government knowl- firebombing wn~ch destroyed a Corsican res- edge or role in this attack. \No senior offi- taurant frequented by nationalists. cial -neither the interior minister, nor the Jean-Pierre Lacroix started his term by stat- defe11se or justice ministers, nor the prime ing, \The job will be tough, but it will be mi11ister or any of my closest aides - had made easier by the will of all people who, any inkling information about this criminal like myself, are concerned about Corsica's act before it was committed,~' J()spin said development..\' Jospin asked the DefenseMinisterto dis- The restaura11t that burned dowtl ()n April solve the GPS, the anti-terror unit linked to 20 was ChezFrall.cis, an illegally btrilt beach the firebombing that was created last year housewitha~trawroof. after Corsica's !hree ~olicemen were For 23 years· national- prefect .was sh~t 1mmed1atelyundersus- ' and killed m pi cion whe11 police ists have bombed French Ajaccio, Corsica's equipment was found • capital. at the sight ()fthe fire busznesseS and govern- On Tuesday, and one polic.eman . b '/d' · 7 1'/; the sixth police of- wenttoalocalltospital ment . Ul zngs zn an ~Jort ficer was placed forbums. to gain greater autonomy under investiga- What seemed like a tion for their in- clear-cut cas..e sud- or even independence. volvement in the denly became more arson. One ofthe complex when tth.e three detained officers, police officers said that they had been or- Prefect Bernard Bonnet, was the top repre- dered to bum the restaurant. sentative of Paris in Corsica. Bonnet has Corsica has always been a problem for the been relieved of his duties. French government. For 23 years, national- Bonnet was cracking down on crime after ists have bombed French businesses and themurderofErignac, theprefectkilled in government buildings in an effort to gain Corsica. He considered the illegally built greater auton()my or even independence. restaurants on the beach to be rebellious in Last year's killing of the Corsican prefect the face ofFrenchregttlations and laws, and prompted Paris to crack down on Corsica. wanted them to be removecl. Political commentators said that this scan- 'The restaurant owners recently won a dal could be cievastating to Jospiu. In the court case that gave th.em additional time to two years oflli s administration, he has been make improvements 1,1pon the properties- a high. in opin i()n polls because of his very possible cause of the firebombing planned open style. by top Corsican-officials \This is certainly the most serious and Bonnet has denied orde1ing the attack, difficult political affair since Jospin came to bt1t prosecutors say that he has acknowl- office almost two years ago,\ Europe I radio edged some role in it. Because Bonnet was commentator A lain Duhamel said. He also the highest link in Corsica to Paris, officials called Jospin tile main political victim of the have not ruled out questioning aides to scandal. Jo~pin about the national government's role The liberal French newspaper, Liberation in the firebombing and the overall crack- said: \HoweYel' this tragi-comic episode down on crime. by Neil Routman · • Worlcf.News Editor Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic · has declared a peace offering, promising to make a partial.withdrawal out of Kosovo. Could this be the beginning ofthe end of the NATO war against Serbia? The answer is probably not; tllis is most likely tbe first of a plethora of diplomatic tactics used against the forces ofNATO by tile Serbian Government, which wish to appeal to China, Russia, and worlcl citizens who oppose the N A 'TO offensive. The US and British governments have re- mained skeptical about this latest appease- ment. The British Foreign Secretary com- mented on Milosevic's announcement at a press meeting MCJnday: \I have to report to yot1 that as of this morning, there is no evi- dence of troops witltdrawing from Kosovo. Indeed, the reports we have suggest that the fighting continues.\ NATO is absohttely positive that a with- drawal is not currently underway. [ronically, intelligence seems to believe that Serbian forces are digging in and fortifying their position. Combined with the release ofthe three US prisoners of war, this tactic is meant to ap- peal to such Americans as Jesse Jackson or Dan Qualye, who -wish for a quick diplomatic solution. Of cours~, most Americans would prefer to have a di-plomatic agreement be- tween the warring parties, but such an agree- ment is against cUJTent NATO policy. Many people have tried to compromise with Milosevic and failed: President Glafcos Clerides of Cyprus or Victor Chernomyrdin of Russia have both tried to negotiate a dip- lomatic agreement with the Serbian leader. The United States and NATO have placed themselves intoa unique position of an un- clear goal of total safety for tne Kosovars and the return of the hundreds of thousands · of ethnic Albaniatt refugees. 'These goals cannot be attained with such ease as the strict goals of Operation Desert Storm: evicting Saddam Husseinand his anny from Kuwait. With tentative initiative&. set, and using circumlocution as a way ofattaining these goals (bombing and cutting offthe oil sup- ply),. Milosevic has plenty<Jfroom to diplo- matically play his hand against NATO's gambit. NATO wants total comsent from the Serbian government; it has mot directly ad- vocated for an independent Kosovo, yet. This is nearly impossible t~ achieve. Even with the submission of the Serbian govern- ment, the Serbian people bave a deep-rooted aversion for the ethnic Albtnians, a hatred that has been fostered for more than 600 years. Milosevic can afford to make promises and announcements that be has no inten- tion of upholding. He has made numerous broken promises since lle achieved power: Time is clearly on Slobodan 's side. With eacn fallen bomb, each. laser-guided missile, and each air raid used, the global commu- nity grows more impatient~oNith the US and NATO's policy. Any mistake made clearly fa11s on NATO's responsibility. The bombing ofthe Chinese embassy was an excellentex:ample of this: China had already opposed such aggres- sions; now the vetoing member of the UN Security Counsel will adamantly oppose these strikes. Milosevic is hoping fOlr a reversal of NATO policy which willllllow him to not only avoid prosecution b;ut to remain in power as leader of a Serb illn state. He is counting on an extension ofbomb- ings, and if he can draw ouithis aggression for a number of addition ali months, he can tum this action into an A..tnerican issue for the presidential cand.idates. With the win- ning candidate supporting the more popu- lar diplomatic solution, Milosevic only needs to sustain his oppression for 18 months- then he will be free from NA. TO attacks. If NATO and the US wish to evict Milosevic from poweranc:ltestablish a peace- ful Balkan region, they must wax their effort in bringing the Serbian g.o'\iemment to their knees. ... · ..

. - I ; Page 12 • May 13, 1999 • Simply Delicious The majority of my social inter- action at college has centered around a wonderful four-letter word. Food. My day is basically scheduled by the times that I eat meals with my · friends. There is something marvel.: ous\y fulfilling about sitting in one place for hours and not even real- izing that time is passing. You know you are really in good com- pany when you can eat whatever you choose with no concern for repercl!ssions or an upturned nose at your choice of comestibles. No one thinks any differently of you after you have just had a slice of pizza, a cheeseburger, fries and mint chocolate chip ice cream. I love that feeling, of having com- plete freedom in the realm of food choice. There are so many times when our true appetite-motivated desires are deterred by matters of social circumstance. We don't or- der buffalo wings on a first date for fear of finger-! icking embarrass- ment. We don't eat the 32-oz. rib- eye steak, medium rare, in front of staunch vegetarian dining partners. And Vfe simply do not choose to eat chocolate pudding for breakfast when Mom and Dad have just fin- ished making a Sunday morning omelet-buttered toast-grapefruit- feast. Strangely, food has historically becorne established as a social ob- ject ()Ver the years. We no longer forage in the woods for berries, nor do we eat simply to survive. There is a fixation on food as almost a recreational tool. Major holidays and life-important events center around food. Thank~giving is a day basically devoted to mass con- sumption of gravy-drenched side dishes and weddings are often rated not on the d~gree of love shown by bride and groom, but rather on the richness of the main course. Going out to dinner has become an almost .glbrified social event and is always included along with any form of entertainment. After all, what is a Broadway show without dinner in Litt·le Italy coupled with it? This tradition of pairing food with social activity starts early. When I was in elementary school, my friends and I began a religious ritual or'eating ice cream sundaes at Friendly's on Friday nights. That practice continued through high school and marked the completion of a true night-out. There was no such thing as a week- end without ice cream. Whether it was quickly taken-out on our way to a party or leisurely savored be- fore a movie, ice cream was a staple of my young adult s()cial life. I read somewhere that there comes a certain age when you have to stop eating like a kid, when you have to find a few basic foods that satisfy your health and basic taste requirements. Supposedly, you should get in the habit of eating them, only allowing yourself to a specific fatty or sugar-filled food for special occasi()ns. I guess that is really sad to me. I want to be able to eat whatever I y Michelle Tbam 11ditor-in-Chief Emerit want for the rest of my life. I must admit that food is one of my few, honest joys. Few things bring rne more ,pleasure. I w0nder if that is because I as- sociate food with an increased el- . : evation of emotion. I have been happiest during meals with rny . family out to dinner and during Sunday morning brunches where : I dish with my friends ab()ut all the : ever:~ts of the weekend. The following article is a repro- duction of a previously-run piece written by Matt Ar()flowitz, when his column was kr~o~11 as \Beau- tiful Disasters.\ Meals are an excuse to pro eras- ; I'll admit it. I'm a. tllief. I guar- tinate a bit, an opportunity to spelld : antee that this idea has been done tons oftime chatting with friends before. Now that thaCs eut of the when you should dearly be en- ' way, I came up with a list of gaged in some research-studying- ' strange situations that have hap- library-oriented ritual. Everyone . pened to me and otlters on numer- has to eat, it is, after all, a vital life · ous occasions, as \\'ell as names for function and cannot be avoided. • these peculiarities_ I think that Best to combine it with a bit of· they're called Snigglets. laughter and good company, right? . 1. You're in a .hurry to check It is funny to think how amixture . your rnail at the college center. of eggs, cream cheese, butter and You walk through :the front doors. crushed graham crackers in just the . Out of the comer <>fyour eye you rightcombinationmakesforspec- s~e someone Y()tl know, but tacular sensation on your tongue. • they're walking 01 tt and you are I wan1 to savor that delicious blocked from the'ir line of sight. luxury while I still have fully-fllnc- For that split sec()nd, you want to tional taste buds. My fondest say hello, but the crowd rushing memories of my youth are all · in hurls you forwllrd. I call this the somehow intertwined with fo(i)d. Reamer Blind SpoL The-pink cotton candy I had at the 2 . You're in a b-athroom stall. A shore after the Prom, sushi with my couple of people come in and. be- best friends on my birthday or any gin gossiping about anything, pos- day, root-beer floats secretly de- sibly even you. They have no idea voured witfi my little brother in the . that anyone is listening: I call this white, whit~ living room while my Eaves Crapping. parents were at work. Anytime I 3. you arrive at Union as a fresh· want those memories again, all I .. man. Alc<Jhol is a 11 ew thing to you have to do is find tJ10se yummy because in high stJllool, weekends treats,. and I am there again. Food~ were a time for you to get more pretty powerful stuff. studying done while other people actually enjoyed tllemselves. So ' ~ .. tells the medic which party they were at. The administration finds out. So they file a Fraternity Suit.. 6. You're at Upperclass and . your friends have found a sellt. but you can't find them. So you walk down every aisle in the bjg room, feeling very tiny because all eyes in the morn are on you. I call this the ·Nalk of Death. 7. You walk through the college center and you see ten girls who are all wearing the same strangely rimmed glasses. i call them the Roving Gang of Lisa Loeb Thugs. Seriously, I think all these women are secretly controlling the uni- verse and Union is their incognito hideout. Watch out for them. 8. Someone grubs a cigarette from you and then leaves. They are called Anti-Social Smokers. 9. You come to this school and proceed to write offensive, child- ish articles for the Concordy. You've quickly made a bad repu- tation that you'll live witll for the next four years. This is called David Kay. 10. You're in the bathmom of a floor that is of opposite gender. You sit .down to relieve· yQurself. Someone from the floor comes in to do the same. You can only start after they leave, because they might hear strange sounds coming out of your body. This is called Plop-o-Phobia. Word Search by Amanda Jaci{son you want to create a new image for yourself. So y()u get plastered and take· an unellpected trip to Ellis. This can eitller be called Ori- entation for Eleve11 Special Mem- bers ofthe Class of2001, or Beer 11. You come to college and only then do you pick up the habit of smoking cigarettes. But wait, you're over 18 and smoking isn't as cool as it was when we were underage. I haven't actually come s L s c A. !J· 0 A M R s w R I D M 0 A K B p T R 0 H 8 M D A I T u v A D s I c p H c D M s A T w E I D 8 N 0 s N K G D T A 8 H I E 0 A u s T s R R A T p E R T s H I R T s A c A Q M M E I E M R I 0 R T I A N T p A L s s I R R s p G M c R G F N H I L u E A y L I A w s 0 I N D u N K A·o E H E 0 s L F I p N c c R A H A D G A T p s 0 R H R 0 T 0 T u s D 0 s F s T L 0 L E T E B R L A y G M J I s A c N p F D c A E E s L A R H E A D T D s E s o·H E I R E s N E K E R M E s A K J 0 T A D s s F D s w K H J E s M 8 R w T R 0 R F K R E D L 0 F c s K s s T I I F I F w 0 A B A L B T E H 0 R 0 N A N 0 z E D A B T A A F R A M E s G s A R s I w s F c 0 D s K N A R B I I c L u L G N T N A T T I w H M B E s T R B A L A w D L I c I A H v c N I I y s c E~ 8 A I ·T E D s D R A c A R c c A M E R A 8 I K N T y L R I I A D z D N I y R p 0 G E N v 8 L y A 8 0 A G N E N B 0 N E E A E R M L K A M c s p 0 T K N A T D 0 A N R p A N A c A L c u L A T 0 R s R H I D 0 A L E E J I s N E T K w s N N 0 K E R T A L K A H p N'B E R s 0 c K s I E y B u I c s I R s N E 0 s u L G. THINGS YOU FIND IN THE UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE BEANIE BABIES BOOKS CALCULATORS CAMERAS CARDS COMPUTERS FOLDERS FRAMES KEY CHAINS MAGAZINES MARKERS NOTEBO.OKS PENCILS PENS SCISSORS SHORTS SHOT GLASSES SOCKS SWEATSHIRTS TANK TOPS TEDDY BEARS TSHIRTS UMBRELLAS WINDPANTS Pressure. 4. 'Y 011 wake upt() the sound ·of your roommate h~ving sex.. So yon loudly repeat the grunting sounds so that tlley can hear you.l call til is Fornication Imitati()n. 5. One of the eleven from #3 up with a name for this one but it still boggles my mind. That about does it for now. If anybody can .come up with more of these, drop them in my mailbox at #40. I'II print them next week. Fill in the Blank Concordiensis' take on Mad Libs. Play with a friend, ask him/her to provi<fe you with the responses for the blank spaces.After, read the story back with the filled~in blanks. Well, my parents came to visit this past weekend and so many thi!lgs happened to them! First, we were walking and ---:-;c:--.-- Adjective ran into . He was overly friendly to t.hem and --::M-:-al:-e-:-Ad 7 n-cin 7 is~tra-:-to-r ~ asked if they were enjoying themselves. He offered them some and left without saying a word. Then, we decided to ---::P::-lura-:1'7N:-ou_n_ watch the Race. It was all very exciting until a(n) --~-~~ 1\nimal cttme crashing into the crowds of people. We all ran ---.-A.-uto-m-ob:-tll.-e- to the sides of the road, hoping to avoid being hit. ---,.A-,.dv-erb 7 __ _ My mom grabi}edonto some lady's -,,...,.:-;;--;;~;-;---and my father Article of Clothing fell -first i.nto the pavement. Well, thankfully there ----.----...- Body pllll: isn•t another Parent's Weekend until a full ye~. fro!ll now.

Advertisements C!I.tmCurhhmsi£~ • May 13, 1999 · Page 13 Union's M:BA can . OPEN the DOOR Need a Little Snack While Getting a Little Sun in Front of the Library? to a career in management. ·INTERESTED STU·.D~ENTS ARE IN·V.ITED TO ATTEND A·N MBA I:NFORMATION SESSlON THURSDAY,MAY13 HUMANITIES 014 4:30 ·5:30pm FOR MORE INFORMATION OR TO RSVP CALL: 388·6239 Fast Ready Easy Dutch A:n easy way to grab a .quick bite without going anywhere. BIOTECHNOLOGY IS REDEFINING THE fUTURE and Biogen is at the forefront, leading the development of several important medicines tnduding AVONEX;, the most prescribed therapy in the U.S. f(}r relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. One of the fa<:ton that makes AVONEX! ullique is the Sioge-n customer support organization, a team dedicated to helping those wtto use and pr~sc.ribe the drug. By setting new standards for service and support, thls remarkable team is helping to shape the future of biotechnology. CUSTOMER SUPPORT SPECIALISTS As part of this highly visible, colla bora live team in our Cambridge headquarters, you will provide exceptional customer service on all levels as yo~o1 counsel mul~ tiple sclerosis patients and hei\lthcarc professionals on therapy Md s~:rvice options_ Through a six-week program, specialists <2re trair\ed to assess caller's needs, provide well-informed answers to inquiries, track customer requests, and provide any necess~1ry follow~ up. Ycu \Viii also interrace- with external organizatiorlS and partners and internal deparU'tlN1tS. Requires a BS/BA in the life sciences or cornmunicatton~ fi~ld or a relevant edu· cational bacl\grovnd in the hum~nities or soda! sciences.. A positive attitude, l1$lening/verbaf/communk:ation skills, and the ability to multi-tas.k are essential. You \viii be working with other high energy individuals in this 9r()l.ving def)artmcnt where ideas and concepts com~ to life. Source Code: JR·CSS. This is your future calling .. This opportunity offers you the chance to ie(lrn the biotechnology business from some of the industry's most accomplished talent, plus you'll gain iruight into thos~ we serve: patients and their families, med- ical professional>, pharmacists, and many others. At the same time, tile posilion offers an attract·ive- wrnpensation and benefits package, including equity partic- ipation irl one of biotechnology\ most financially s-ound coni!Xmies. Answer the calL Fo~-v;,rd your resume, indicating Source Code, to: Biogeo, Inc., Resume Processing Center, P.O. Box 708, Burlington,. MA 01803; Fax (617) 679·2S46; Email: bio9en®i .... ebhire.com (please referenc(! Souro~ Code on \Subject\ line; re:s.un1e nwst be in body of email; no auachntents. please). No ager1ey st.Jornisshms, pt~asf:, EOE. www. bl o gen. co 111 BKJSEN' ...

Page 14 'May13, 1999 Strangefolk to Play at Springfest Courtesy of Li'l Sadie ProductioJJs What do you get wl1en you blend sound musical craftsmanship, honey-drenched three-part harmo- nies, scorching guitar wizardry, in- novative songwriting, a fierce dedi- cation to touring, and four guys from Vermont who don't seem all that strange? You get the power- ful dynamic elixir that is Strangefolk. Hailing from the Green Mountains and music-friendly Burlington, Vermont, Strangefolk, a semi-acoustic foursome, musi- cally defies categorization and of- fers refreshing and welcome sur- prises at every tum. In 1992 the band invited Jon's childhood friend, ErikGlockler, to play bass, and Luke Smith to play drums. Strangefolk went electric while Jon and Reid continued play- ing acoustic instruments and sing- ing songs written in the folk vein. The band was etching out a sound that was part folk, part rock, part blues an <I bluegrass, but uniquely some of the best venues across the country. With their newest offer- ing and Mammot:h<lebut, Weight- less In Water, the band has made the album they have always wanted to make. With a minimal promotional budget, relentless na- tional touring, and g()od old word of mouth Strangefolk has been able to independently sell over 20,000 path is similar to that ofPhish,\ said Sean Glennon of The Valley Ad- vocate of Northampton, Massa- chusetts. \We've tried to stay away from comparisons,\ Genauer said. \We're not too concerned about being Phish; I don't think we could if we wanted to.\ Paul Schattel of The Mountain Express, North Carol ina, said, Courtesy of Nancy Grossman with improvisational work. \Play- ing that way is very natural for us. And we think it's good for the au- dience, too.\ Why see a band again and again if they play the same set every night? [Improvisa- tion] makes things more fun for us, also; there's the element of lyrics, the element of song, and then there's the element of the un- known, which tends to keep things interest·ing. Right now, we have a catalog of about 60 or 70 songs and it's good to keep things mixed up,\ says Grenauet. Strangefolk is not, however, a typical folk band that people hear and say, \Wow you have to see them live.\ They love live perfor- mance and they are extremely good at it. They do, however, consider themselves to be primarily a record- ing band. \Weightless In Water,\ their lat- est release, is an exciting and bright-sounding CD, laden with Strangefolk trademarks: dulcet three-part harmonies, rich melo- dies, creative songwriting, soaring guitar and soul-lifting jams. In short, \Weightless In Water\ has something for everyone! The band began back. in I 991 when Reid Genauer (lead vocals, rhythm guitar) and Jo11 Trafton (lead guitar, backup vocals)teamed up to play in college atthe Univer- sityofVermont. Soon after, the duo was perfonning in coffee houses and pubs around camp11s. \We got paid $25 and dinner,\ recalls Genauer of the time. Even at the beginning, the duo was <:arving out something different, Genauer com- ing from a folk songwriting bent and Trafton using different elec- tronic enhancements and distor- tions on his acoustic guitar. \Our music was a little bizarre to behold because it was just the two of us with our acoustic guitars, and I would come out with echoes and fu II distortion,\ relates Trafton. It w:1s folk but it was strange: Strangefolk, band for Sprfngfest, on the road Strangefolk will be playing a free show on Reamer Commons at Union on Saturday, May 15. Strangefolk set time is 4 PM. At this juncture, Strangefolk has just completed a 12-week National tour and is heading in to the studio right after the show to record a new al- bum. Go out and support the band. They are talented young men who want to make this Springfest the best ever! Strangefolk. and entirely their own. Strangefolk began to build a fol- lowing with twe self-released COs: 1994's self-titled Strangefolk and 1995's Lore. Through these re- leases word spread about the band. The cmwds at their shows became larger and the band performed in Minstrelles Sing At Coffeehouse by Kimberly R~hback A&E Editor This last Tuesday marked the Garnet Minstre lles first performance of the year. They have been working extremely hard on a new CD. On Tuesday night at 10:00 they came up- to the Coffeehouse to perform . Before the Minstrelles took center stage, Union's lmprov troop performed for an intimate audience. The Impr()V troop has been in rehearsal for the past seven weeks, and theirworkis paying off. For anyone who has never tried improv, it is extremely difficult. The Minstrelles sang their songs, and the crowd loved it. Sophomore Maura W ittbold said, \I was a fittle nervous. This is our first performance this year. I am so glad that so many people showed up to support us.\ The Coffeehouse stage has been graced by the Pipers and the Minstrelles for two years. They always draw a crowd. Visitors sat and enjoyed free coffee and tea, while listening to tile sparkling voices of Union's women's accapella group. Some visitors J:l()ticed that haggard furniture tha1 lives in the Coffeehouse. \The place looks great... except for the furniture,\ said Coffeehouse founder Brian Goldberg. The last time the Dutch Pipers came to sing, hordes of people were forced to sit on the floors of the recently remodeled coffeehouse. \We are in the process of getting new furniture,\ said coffeehouse president Gina LaSorsa. It is difficult, LaSorsa explained, because the furniture is subject to so much wear and tear. The Coffeehouse hopes to buy nice furniture, but it is constantly subjected to spilled coffee and cigarette butts. \If you have any old furniture from apartments that you are going to be leaving, and you would like to donate it to the Coffeehouse, please call me!\ said LaSorsa. Her number is x 5812. \We have a limited budget and we would like to provide more seating at out events, they are getting more and more crowded, and our furniture seems to be dying.\ Excellent work Garnet Minstrelles. Your year of work has clearly paid off! The seniors will be missed, but the campus hopes to see the rest of you more often next year. lf any other groups would like to play at the Coffeehouse, call HopeArnoldtatx 5&10. J copies of their releases, a number sure to increase wllen weightless In Water is released nationally on Mammoth Records in late August. \It's no wonderthe band mem- bers don't feel tlte need to shout _ about where they've played or how their do-it-yourself career \Truth be told, Strangefolk mem- bers don't really mind being known as Burlington's other groove band. It turns out that they're four wann, well-adjusted guys, and jumping on a bandwagon appears to be the farthest thing from their minds. Strangefolk is very experienced The Burden of Being Female \The Unu.sual Pregnancy\by Michelle Tham <.;Paintings, .. Priil'tS and scutPmres ·: .~Y.:'hti,cftelle . ·R~cep'#o~.:: · . . . ' . ~ S.#ii,~#~, :·:;:'' ' .,,g;';;:;tllS. .·t;·>·ArtsA.trium . ·. '• .·· .· . . . . • ···: Gallery ··. ·· \J:)epilrotment of· .·Pti'ualArts .. · Want- t-o-- wra-{3/ for A ErE ??? Co-m& t--o-- tf1,e, concord;y medi41f:r -t~ at-- 6.·oo

t t t r .t I. ~ e Arts & Entertainment <!Iam:odiensis • May 13, 1999 • Page 15 I Can't Believe I'm Not Butter by Deric: Harrington StajfWriter Strap on your safety helmet, and don't forget your ~nee~pads, be,.. cause we're aU climbing aboard the skateboard of this column for an- other week. I know,. you've all missed me so muchsi.nce last week, andthat's ... OK. I missed you too. Th.ere, now thattbe feelings are out oftheway, let:sgetonwith it, OK? I saw Jack and Jill this past weekend at the Yulman, and I'd like to give my impression ofit as \the good, the bad, and the ugly.\ THE GOOD: The entire show. Ti1 fact, it's not the good, it's the great. I'd like to thank everyone involved with Jackand Jill for putting on a truly amazing show. THE BAD: Oh ... about 100@ people wanting to see the show, which was open for four days, with seating to com- fortahly seat 80. Nothing actually bad about the show. THE UGLY: Liam Joynt! Just kidding, 1 don't want him to come .and kill me, al- though then 1 W<luld be able to be replaced with someone that writes more about A&E, which would le-ave one happy editor... who, well, hates these atticles. Laundry and Bourbon opens today, and goes through Sunday (8:00PM ev· ery day, except Sunday at 2:00PM). It's a oneactcomedythat I'm sure is given more in depth coverage per vievt, Ctnc:l it was hands down call an ·~ugly girl\ in the cast) in elsewhere in this. section. I know (how co~ne fi()Cllle ever says hands the show last week, what else do all those involved with this show, up? lfha.nds up doesn't make you want? (pleaseanswernow ... ) and althougb I have not yet seen sense, lloVI C()llle hands down Sorry, I don't blow whereto find a it, I am <;:on:fldent that it will be a made a b~:~c:k-fiftyon the stn;et c;or,.. walrus at this time of year. . . I great show, and a lot of fun. ner sellin~.its..elf on the weekenc:ls?) guess ifyourea.lly want the walrus Wen. Spri11gfest is almost upon the best shc:J~ l'\Ve ever been t(). bad enough, :you should go to the us, and whatctm I doing for it? I'm TimefortlleCabaret check up. zoo instead, or ... you could bring gonna go awlly! I'm beaded out to Yup .... if's stillthere. ltha:;; been a the walrus as your date for the Hartford to go watch Gargantua extreme!~ funtiooe in rehearsal~ hut show! Soul Keep :your eyes glued (liter- also a lot D fVIori<. Many of us are Looking fora good time? E-mail ally ... I meatt, I want you to epoxy putting inuj)wards ofthirty hours me at: SlapyMt:gee@aol.com A bit your eyes t(;l this column, which a week~ !ill le:adi11g up to eight per- of news for everyone that enjoys will be the newesttrend ,.........~~~-----~~-----~~~ ....... ,s;eeing the talent shows here on campus. Look (also called the post out Abercrombie, ''SorM. ,,, l don't know :sh<JW Cabarets, but, as there's a new fad in • J\ to not cause much con- town.) to this page for a ·u .•.. · ·.'· h· . . ·er·e· . t·o jil·n.· d.· a· fusion, we'Il call them recap next week. '\ talent shows) after the I was afraid ofthis a performances here on fewweeksago,butnow wa[r,us at this time of campus. my fears hav:e become !he talent shows this true. I ... L()ve ... Pop- yen• '' ~enn will take place af- tarts. Imean,notinthat ; 06 ••• terthe21andthe29per- \I want to have sex with formances of Cabaret. my pop taFts\ sort of .___~-------------~---_JThey start at approxi- way, but intllat\l can't get enough fonnanc.es. l' ]I give you a couple mately 10:15 or so, generally when- of your frosted .strawberry good- reasons to _gorigltt now: Evel)'one ever the play gets out. There will ness\ sort of way. I let out a small else ... a11cl me ! Just kidding. be signs in the theater for them as \welp\eachtimei gotothevend- In all seriousness, this sh()W is timegoeson. lfyou would like to ing machine,. and see that it's empty going tOt he tll:e product of a long be a part of it, please E-mail me at of my favor,Jte 3 AM snack. process; and it's ()fie that we are all the above name. ECW has a pay per view this proud of, all.d ,[ really hope to see Woohoo! They appear to be weekend, originating from youther.e. What's that? You 11eed loosening thestraps, which means Poughkeepsie. Tickets are still on more encoura:gement? Ummm... that I must be done writing for an- sale, and wellit is worth the money let's see, I !llentioned the beautiful other week. Damn, I wrote a lot to go to it. I went to the last pay women (the:re is not what I w0uld about A&E tliis week. Aren't you all proud of me? I'm just gonna pause here to give myself a big ol' pat on the back. Oh crap, I just realized that tbe more I talk about how I stayed on topic, the further from staying on topic I get. ACK! Damn you English language! You may have beaten me this time with your clever\ games,\ but next week, victory is mine! There is no escaping my wrath! So, I am about to take the cup out of the jock strap of life, and end another column. Don't worry butterheads (ummm ... that's what [call my fan (s )?). Why, do you want to be one too? Don't we all though? Eh, the pledging process is too difficult for most of you). r II be back here next week, pro- viding witty insight into the noth- ingness that I usually ramble about. Until next week, I'd like to leave you with this: If David Bowie Rocks the Cradle of Love at I 00 m.p.h., and there are about 20 CDs by the band REM, How many clowns could you fit into a BMW Z3? Would you like a hint? How about this ... it takes 37 pancakes to cover a dog house completely. Bye for now, I'm outtie like my belly button (not really, but it sounds good). I promise I will write a better article next week! Jack and Jill A Success ***ECONOMICS CLUB*** A portion of the Union College endowment is managed by Sanford C. Bernstein and Co. Come hear the Portfolio Managers speak about A1t Overview of U.S. Equity Markets and A Perspective on Investing OverMeas *All Students and Faculty are Welcome* Monday, May 17th at 7:00pm Olin Center Auditorium CABARET PPtJv5 NtXT we;Jv'ffiAr Tickets on Sale in The Yulman and Satellite Box Offices by Kimberly Rohbacl\ A&E Editor Congratulations to the cast and crew of the Shoot the Rabid Dog Theater Company's production of Jack ancl Jill. This student production has restored the legitimacy of student theater. The play, \a part of Union College's Steinmetz Symposium,\ was a two-term project directed by Chris Welch 1nd assistant director Liam Joynt. The lead actors were Devon Ciampa and Eric Wisotzky. For those of you who missed the four packed performances, these two perfonners were divine. Ciampa and Wisotzky portrayed forty year-old individuals with an element of realism that is seldom found in college actors. One of the most interesting aspects of the show was the \dressers.\ These phenominal actors include<! Greg Fox, Caroline Welch, LiamJoynt, and Mark Will. They did not say a word throughout tile entire production, but their presence was felt. They changed the costumes, the scenes, and the furniture in a way that, as Alexis Wassennan put it, \Should have seemed very odd, but it was completely natural to watch random pe()ple cross the stage with a chair, or a dress.\ The lighting was spectacular. Lighting designer, John Miller worked in one of his finest pieces to create a mood of romance, happiness and pain in th~ small and dark Actors Studio of the Yulman Theater. Welch e\Xplained his choice of play in theDirector'sNotes. \I liked this play because there is so much about it that none of us understand. The mystery, the beauty, and the pain of love is \ike that ... nobody knows how it will end up, and as much as we'd like it to be a fairytale storybook romance it isn't. Jane Martin is very aware ()fthis,\ said Welch. The overwhelmingly enthusiastic response to the play centered around the comment, \I could relate to that.\ So many people I was sitting with were sobbing. Well done. The play was produced with money from the Intellectual Enrichment Grant and the Internal Education Foundation, with \generous assistance\ from the Union College Theater Department. Seating was scarce, and applause rang out loud. These talented students should be extremelyproudoftheirwork and thanked for the wonderfu 1 surge of enthusiasm that is sweeping the campus over the Performing Arts. One of the scenes I particularly enjoyed foundCiampa'scharacter, Jill, breaking dishes all over the stage. Instead of sweeping them up at the end of the scene, the dressers swept them into a semi- circle around the actors. This play was full of similar bold directing choices. It flowed beautifully with only one break in the action for the intermission. The music was fitting, and the sound work was extraordinary. My only regret is that Jack and Jill could not have nm longer. Fear not, theater lovers, this weekend another student production opens in the actors' .studio. Go out and support Laundry and Bourbon over this happy Springfest weekend. This cast and crew are diligently preparing for their show as you read!

16 Great Softball Season Comes to a Close Union Falls to New Paltz and Hartwick in State Tournament by Brian Terlinsky Sports Editor The Union softball team defi- nitely had high hopes for being a top competitor in the New York State Tournament held last week- end at Elmira College. After setting a school record of24 regular sea- son wins and receiving the second seed, Union was more then ready to combat the seventh seed, New Paltz, in the .first round ofthe tour- nament. Nevertheless, Union had defeated New Paltz earlier in the season in a doubleheader, 5-4 and 9-3. New Paltz, was surely prepared for a re-match and to take revenge against the Dutchwomen. This was a spectacular season for the Dutchwomen and the whole team was quite thankful for great pitching from Meg Crowley, Apryle Pickering, and Sarah Johnston. However, players like Julie Cardenttino also helped the team, leading in hits and runs, and e'1ding the season with a batting average of around .400. Other top performing players \-'ho helped the team to a hist()ric 1999 season were senior Taryn Sarno!, with 33 hits, and an aver- age of .3 50; junior Sarah Cardu I Ia, 19 hits; .387 batting average, and freshman Melinda Colon, who had 27 hits and a season-ending aver- age of .333. A !though there were many top perf<>rming players, the team kept the idea all season long ofbeing a one unit team, which definitely contributed to their success throughout the entire season. The seniors who will be gradu- ating and leaving the team include Deb Cederbaum, Shannon Lawlor, and Taryn Sarno!, who all have had four prosperous years and contrib- uted so much to the Union softball squad. U11fortunately forthe Union soft- ball team, its performance against New Paltz was not the best of the season, which, in the end, cost them the game, as well as a chance to win the state tournament. Al- though it was a low scoring game, Union's play was quite unusual, as the team was unable make con- tact with the ball and only had two hits from a tough pitching squad from New Paltz. In tile fourth inning New Paltz became the first team to reach homeplate. The Dutchwomen sealed their own fate by allowing a walk and a double to score, after some defensive errors in the field, scoring two runs for New Paltz. Moreover, these two runs would be a11 New Paltz needed to defeat Union by the score of2-0 and gain- ing tne revenge they had hoped for at the start of the playoff game. Sophomore pitcher Apryle Pickering had a steller year for Union. Despite losing, Apryle Pickering pitched a two-hitter, with a lone walk. Audrey Brennan and Meredith Chase were Union's only players to make contact with the ball, both hittin~ singles. With the l<lss to New Paltz, Union was officially put into the loser's bracket for the NY State Tournament and was placed to take on SUNY Geneseo. This was a to- tally different game, as Union re- bounded from their previous dis- appointing loss to New Paltz. Union would go on to victory by the score of 7-3. Once again, Audrey Brennan helped Union gain some runs, by blasting a two- run homerun. Heather Ligotino also smashed a two-run homerun, giving the Dutc:hwomen a lead of 4-0 in the third inning. Also con- tributing to the offensive threat \'was Taryn Samol, who smacked a double down the third-base line, scoring two runs for Union. Melinda Colon also had a double for Union, while pitcher Meg Crowley only allowed five hits and struck-out five hatters. With the 7-3 victory, Union would go agains.t Hartwick for fifth place in the NY State Tournament. However, Union would .lose to Hartwick, wh<> tlley beat twice ear- lier in the seas()n, by the score of 8-0. Union ended their season with a record of25- 11. Senior Shannon Lawlor puts herself in the ready position field the ball. '\ ~- : . -, \ ·---~ ·;;;: <:,:·.< \'. Sophomore Julie Cardenttino, with her great batting average, helped Union to the post-season tournament.

. J I Great Softball Season Comes to a Close Union Falls to New Paltz and Hartwick in State Tou,rnament by Brian Terlinsky Sports Editor The Union softball team defi- nitely had high hopes for being a top competitor in the New York State Tournament held last week- end at Elmira College. After setting a school record of24 regular sea- son wins and receiving the second seed, Union was more then ready to combat the seventh seed, New Paltz, in the first round ofthe tour- nament Nevertheless, Union had defeated New Paltz earlier io the season in a doubleheader, 5-4 and 9~3. New Paltz, was surely prepared for a re-match and to take revenge against the Dutchwomen. This was a spectacular season fortheDutchwomenand the whole team was quite thankful for great pitching from Meg Crowley; Apryle Pickering, and Sarah Johnston. However, players like Julie Cardenttino also helped the team, leading in hits and runs, and e!1ding the season with a batting average of around .400. Other top performing players V'-'ho helped the team to a historic 1999 season were senior Taryn Samol, with 33 hits, and an aver- age of .350;junior Sarah Cardulla; 19 hits; .387 batting average, and freshman MelindaColon, who had 27 hits and a season-ending aver- age of .333. Although there were many top performing players, thetearu kept the idea all season long of being a one unit team, \.\'ll ich definitely contributed to their success throughout the e11tire season. The seniors wl1o will be gradu- ating and leaving the team include Deb Cederbaum ,Shannon Lawlor, and TarynSamol, whoaH have had fot~r prosperous years and contrib- uted somuchto the Union softball squad. Unfortunately f<lrthe Union soft- ball team, its perf()nnance against New Paltz was 11ot the best of the season, which, in the end, cost them the game, as well as a chance to win the state tournament. AI,. though it was a J()w scoring game, Union's play was quite unusual, as the team was unable make con- tact with the ball andonly had two hits from a tough pitching squad from New Paltz. In the fourth inning New Paltz became the first team to reach homeplate. The Dutchwomen sealed their own ~te by allowing a walk and a double to score. after some defensive errors in the field, scoring two run~ for New Paltz. Moreover, these two runs would be all New PaltzSJeeded to defeat Union by the scoreof2-0 and gain- ing the revenge they had hoped for at the start of tile playoff game. Sophomore pitcher Apryle Pickering har:i a steller yearfor Union. Despite losing, Apryle Pi-ckering pitched a two-hitter, witll a lone walk. Audrey Brennan and Meredith Chase were Unio11;sonly players to make contact with the baH, both hitting singles. With the. los11 to New Paltz, Union was officially pat into the loser's bracket ftlr the NY State Tournament and was placedtotake on SUNY Geneseo. This was a to- tally different game, as Union re- bounded from their prev.ious dis- appointing loss to New Pa.Jtz. Union would go on to victory by the score of 7-3. Once again, Audrey Brennan helped Union gain some runs, by blastingatwo.., run homerun. Heather Ligotino also smashed a two-run homerun, giving the Dutchwomen a lead of 4-0 in the third inning. Also con- tributing to the offensive threat ~was Taryn Sarno\, who smacked a double down the third-base line, scoring twc;> runs for Union. Melinda Colon also had a double for Union, while p:itcbet Meg Crow ley only allowed five bits and struck -out five batters. With the 7-3 victory, Union would go against Hartwick for fifth place in the NY State Tournament However, Union would lose to Hartwick, who they beat twice ear- lier in the season, by the score of s .. o. Union ended their season with a record of25-ll. Senior Shannon Lawlor puts herself in the ready position field the ball. '<~'~ :;,~_!;):~~>· ~ i~:~. 4 ~ Sophomore Julie Cardenttino, with her great batting average, helped Union to the postwseason tournament. . .

Sports ~r.tncor.biensis • May 13, 1999 • Page 17 Women's Lax Falls Short to Rowan in NCAA Tourney by David Brooks Editor-in-Chief In a season that consisted of many \firsts the Union College Women's Lacrosse Team lost to Rowan in their first ever NCAA appearance. The women finished the year with:ateam record 14 wins, including a streak of l 0 consecu- tive wins, another record. But the history-setting season ended in the quarterfinals ofthe NCAA tour- nament last Wednesday. After a surprise visit on the bus by ESPN's Robin Roberts last Tuesday, tile Dutchwomenheaded f ' ~ . tJ l • . { down to battle Rowan on Wednes- day. Union started quickly., scoring the first three goals of the game. Junior Abby Harris scored first, just 55 sec.onds into the game be- fore senior captain Sarah Moss netted two goals of her own. How- ever, Rowan took the lead after scoring five unanswered goals. With 13:42 togo in the half, senior Shoko Okado pulled Union within one goal, 5-4. That would be as close as Union would get, as Rowan went on a 5-0 run and held a 10-4 halftime lead. \We came out strong,\ stated Moss, \but we couldn't keep the momentum go- ing.\ Harris added another goal at 5 :14 of second half, but Rowan re- sponded with by scoring four of the next five goals, taking a 14-6 lead with 5:11 to go in the game. Rowan ended the game, and Union's season, with an 18-9 vic- tory. Maura Woessner had a 14- save performance to close out her coll~giate career. \It was not our best game,\ stated Moss. \I don't know what it was, but we weren't on our game.\ Although it was Moss' last game, she and the other se- ~----__,niors (Jess Paige, Shoko Okado, and · ra Woessner) know they have bui It a strong foun- dation for the pro- gram. Said Moss, \I wanted to be in e championship game, but I also want people to re- spect Union. I think we accom- plished that this season.\ \We could have beaten them,\ stated coach Linda Bevelander. In two season as head coach, Bevelander has led the Dutchwomen to a ~~----------::o-:-:=-_J 24-11 record, and two post-season Senior Shoko Okado drives to the net for a shot on goal against Rowan College. tournaments, in- Junior Sam Ryall tries to find a player to pass to. eluding this year's first ever NCAA bid for a women's team. \I'm not disappointed at all. We will use what we learned and accomplished this year to set our goals higher next season. We now have a taste of what it is like to compete at the national level,\ said Bevdander. \These women worked very hard to get here,\ Bevelandercontinued. \I'm very proud ofwhat they ac- complished and extremely proud that we are the first women's team at Union ever to qualify for the NCAA tournament. This sets a standard for all women's teams at Union College. I think you are go- ing to see all of our women's teams get stronger and stronger.'' \The team is disappointed that the season is over, but we are pleased how far we went this season,\ said Moss. The future of the Dutchwomen looks extremely bright. The team will return 17 players, including eight freshmen. After gaining na- tional recognition this season, the Dutchwomen are sure to be a pow- erhouse during the 2000 campaign. Track Season is Over, But Future· Looks Bright by Peter Flynn Staff Writer Union Track and Cross Country are on the upswing again. For the two years prior to this one, the teams' performances have dimin- ished in the state. In 1999, how- ever, the young team (both men and women) have begun to re- bound, promising great imrrove- rnents in the years to come. Cross Country Starting in the fall, under the lead- ership of Head Coach ChaJlie Casey and Assistant Coach Nick Co!l\\<.1)', the men am! \\oJnen ha'e man) thing~ to look fon\ard to. It ..:ould be a rebuilding year for the '1-\omcn, who willlo::,e 1:>cniors l\1oll) HooJ, Lmil; ~1lH~e ~md Katie MacDowell. ·n1i~ might not beth~.: case, however. because the key to success in cross-country is pack running. The women will be lead by Amy Slabich and Glenna Malcolm, who will be pushing each other and pushing twenly minutes for the 5k race. Hopefully, they will bring others up to their level. Joining the men's team will be · freshmen Atsu Kaneko, Jerald Whittington, Don Schaeffer and mid-distance runner Eugene Hazard, as well as sophomore John Houghton. Also, now a senior in high school, Frank Filiciotto will bring some talent and may even be at the front of the pack for the Dutchmen. The return ofTerry Chang and Kenny Scott will help offset the losses of Hugh Meyer, Peter Flynn (current seniors), Jeff Morse and Corey Mathis (away on term abroad). Freshman Matt Conley will also do well and cou Id be run- ning 26:30 or better in the 8k event by the end of the season. Track and Field For the women, former state champion pole vaulter Jordanna Mallach will be bach, hflring IGre- peat last year's performance and possibly go to nationals. Come ·outdoor. sophonwrt· Meli\'-o<l Matusewicz, wlw pL1cnl tifth in the state as a Frosh and ftJll rth this )l'ar in the trit'k jumr. 'l·ill h,· among the state'\ h~ct ~1nd crwi.J al·;o r;~~:k ur o;omc point<; in the long, jump. .fun j,,: Carr;. C'it:'>l\'\\ '>k i will h· strong (a-; ~h\ay<;) in the discu~. but could he d ~t<ite mo:(.bli~t in the javelin and high jump a~ well. The young D!ltchwoman squad will also have more depth and experi- ence in the running events vvith freshmen runners like Maureen Farrell, Kamal Tyson and Renee Rinaldi all contributing. For the men, the return oft'Qot* ball player Dennis Sanabia (out with a tom ACL this year) will in- sure Union's strength in every race up to 400m. Sanabia's 200m time last year was 0.16 seconds off a national qualification. Dennis will also help the 4 xI OOm and 4x400m teams alung with t\t<;u Kaneko, Tony Fykes, Jerald Whittington and Chris Stohsahl. In the middle distance, Steve Schuler, Jon Nieman and John Houghton will be nearing (and go- ing under) two minutes in the 800m. JeffMorse will be running under 4:10 in the 1500m and could place at states. Long distance runners Kenny Scott & Matt Conley will make good training partners in the 3000m steeplechase vvhile Corey Mathis and Frank fi liciotto will represent Union at states in the 5k and Wk events. Hrian Roy will lead Union ill all of the field t.:vcnts and is looking like a shoe-in for nationals in the decathlon :;'<- ,·~ 1-~ ·- }. • ~\-· .. , .... •:, Sophomore Missy Matusewicz gets in her starting{}(· ,. dur ...

I. Sports dLJ.ntqt:rbiensis • May 13, 1999 • Page 17 Women's Lax Falls Short to Rowan in NCAA Tourney by David Brooks Editor-in-Chief In a season that consisted of many \firsts the Union College Women's Lacrosse Team lost to Rowan in their first ever NCAA appearance. The women finished the year with a team record 14 wins, including a streak of 10 consecu- tive wins, ano11ter record. But the history-setting season ended in the quarterfinq..ls of the NCAA tour- nament 'last Wednesday. After a surprise visit on the bus by ESPN 's Robin Raberts last Tuesday; theDutcllwomenheaded .......... _ .. : • .,. \\'·\\' .... , ... ,. I! ··~ .;...,.'f<l' lt 'il ftjj.... '~\\ =iff'\\ ' &:~@'\' ~ ·'' ·~· .'Mw,fo\:'\ ~· '<) . -~ '~ ;'¢- •:> ''\ •• ':i 1 down to battle Rowan on Wednes- day. Union startetl quickly, scoring the .first three goa1s of the game. Jun,ior Abby Harr.is scored first, just 55 sec.onds into the game be· fore seniot captain Sarah Moss netted two goals ofher own. How- ever,. Rowan t()ok the lead after scoring five unanswered goals. With 13:42 to go in the half; senior Shoko Okado J>U•Iled Union within one goal, 5-4. 'Jhat would be as close as Union would get; as Rowan went .on a 5~0 run and held a 1(')4 halftime lead. \We came out strong,.\ state(! Moss, \but we couldn. 't keep the momentum go~ ing.\ Harris added another goal at 5: 14 of second half, but Rowan re- sponded with by scoring four of the next five goals, taking a 14-6 lead with 5:11 to. go in the game. Rowan ended the game, and Union's season, with an 18-9 vic- tory. Maura Woessner had a 14- save performance to close out her collegiate career. \lt was not our best game,'' stated Moss. \I don't know what it was, but we weren't on our game.\ Although it was Moss' last game, she and the other se- ,.,-,~-~~~ ..... niors (Jess Paige., ';:- ·. . . ·.: ... ,,; _- . ~ ·' . .. ·. · Shoko Okado, and Maura Woessner) ow they have built a strong faun- for the pro- gram.. Said Moss, . \I wanted to be in the championship game, but I also want people to re- spect Union. I ink we accom- . pHshed that this . season.\ \We could have aten th,em,\ stated coach Linda Bevelander. In .two season as head . coach, Bevelander has led the Dutchwomen to a ~:....-..-~~---'-~--=,.---J 24-l-1 record, and two post-season Senior Sh.oko Okado driv(!s to the net for a shoJ on goal against Rowan College. tournaments, in- L , Junior Sam Ryall tries to jind a player to pass to. eluding this year's first ever NCAA bid for a women's team. \!' m not disappointed at all. We wiJI use what we learned and accomplished tltis year to set our goals higher next season. We now have a taste of what it is like to compete at the national level,\ said Bevt:lander. \These women worked very hard to get here,\ Bevelander continued. \I'm very proud of what they ac- complished and extremely proud tlut we are the first women's team at Union ever to qualify for the NCAA tournament. This sets a standard for all women's teams at Union College. l think you are go- ing to see all of our women's teams get stronger and stronger.\ \The team is disappointed that the season is over, but we are pleased how far we went this season,\ said Moss. The futu.re of the Dutch women looks extremely bright. The team will return I 7 players, including eight freshmen. After gaining na- tional recognition this season, the Dutchwomen are sure to be a pow- erhouse during the 2000 campaign. Track Season is Over, But Future· Looks Bright · lly Peter Flynn (cmTent seniors), Jeff Morse and Houghton will be nearing (and go- Staff Writer Corey Math is (away on term ing under) two minutes in the UnionTracl< and Cross Country are on the up~wing again. For the two years prior to this one, the teams' performances have dimin- ished in the s~ate. In 1999,. how~ ever, the yoLLng team (both men and women) have begun to re- bound, promising great improve- ments in the years to come. Cr01ss C()untu Starting in the fall, under the lead- ership of Head Coach Charlie Casey and Assistant Coach Nick Conway, the men and women have many things to look forward to. It could be a rebuilding year for the women, who wil:l lose seniors Molly Hood., Emily Morse and Katie MacDowclt. This might not be the case however because the ,. , ' ' key to success in cross-country is pack running. The women will be lead by Amy Slabich and Glenna Malcolm, whowill be pushing each other and puslling twenty minutes for the 5k race. HopefuHy, they will bring others up to their level. Joining the men's team will be freshmen Ats\1 Kaneko, Jerald Whittington, Don Schaeffer and mid-distance runner Eugene Hazard, as well as sophomore John Houghton. A.lso, now a senior in high school, frank Filiciotto will bring some talent and may even be at the front ()f the pack for the Dutchmen. The return of Terry Chang and Kenny Scott will help offset the losses ofHugJJ Meyer,. Peter Flynn abroad). Freshman Matt Con ley 800m. JeffMorse will be running will also do well and could be run- under4: I 0 in the 1500m and could ning 26:30 orbetterin the 8k event place at states. by the end ofthe season. Long distance runners Kenny Track and Field For the w10men, former state champion p()le vaulter Jordanna Mallach will be back, hoping tore- peat last year's performance and possibly go Ito nationals. Come ·outdoor. sophomore Melissa Matusewicz, who placed fifth in the state as a Frosh and fourth this year in the triple jump, will he among the st-.1te's best and could also rack upso111C points in the long jump. Junior Carry Cicslowski will he strong (as al~qys) in the discus, but could he\' st<~te medalist in the javelin a11dhighjump as welL The young O~Jtch\)\loman squad wi II a !so have t:rHHe depth and experi- ence in the rum1 ing events with freshmen rurmers like Maureen Farrell, Kam~l Tyson a11d Renee Rinaldi all co11tributing. for the men, the return of foot- ball player Dennis Sanabia (out with a totn ACL this year) will in- sure Union'sstrength in every race up to 400m. Sa11abia's 200m time last year was ().16 seconds off a national qualification. Dennis will also help the 4:·d OOm and 4x400m team~ <dung with /\tt.;U Kaneko, Tony Fykes, Jerald Whittington and Chris Stollsahl. In the middle distance, Steve Schuler, Joil Nieman and John Scott & Matt Conley will make good training partners in the 3000m steeplechase while Corey Mathis and Frank Filiciotto will represent Union at states in the Sk and I Ok events. Brian Roy will lead Union in all of the field events and is looking like a shoe-in for nationals in the decathlon. ~ ' i Sophomore Missy Matuse-wicz gets in her starting po .. 'I' ,

Sp()rts Dad Vail Regatta Welcomes Women'.s Crew by Braelin Pantel & Chris Vines Contributing Writers In Philadelphia, Pennsylvania this past weekend, the Women's Varsity Crew team competed in the prestigious national Dad Vail Re- gatta. With thirty-one competitors, Union's own took to the water with low expectations. The eight women, Melissa\l don't like things on my butt\ Sullivan, Jamie \I wouldn't know if its cloudy be- cause I still got a tan\ Bunchuk, Brae lin \Where's six seat\ Pantet, Arnie \I'm a novice but you'd never know it\ Csiszer, Chris \I should have gone to Tampa\ Vines, Clare \Where's the humus\ Canal, Mary ''Do we get a stipend\ Felton, Sarah \Uh-oh I've got his trou\ Ahart, and coxswain Sharon \False start\ Pozner, made Union proud with their advancement to semi-finals. When the Union women heard of the potential to row four times in two days, there was little panic. Although they were coming off of a successful season, the crew didn't expect to move past the ini- tial heats dueto its tough competi- tion. Union was up against many well- known Division I schools as well as strong rowing colleges anc! uni- versities from across the country such as Purdue, Wisconsin, Villanova, and Central Florida. In the first heat ofthe day, Union was up against six other schools. AU that was necessary to move to the next level of competition was to come in the top five. The first place team would at~tomati­ cally advance to the semi-final round while the remaining four eight set out with the drive to place in the top five. Easily defeating Bucknel1, the women spared their energy for their afternoon heat. CominE off the water, the women £ueled themselves courtesy of Bob's !liner and, prepared .them- semis. ~ith the boats aligmd and sitting at attention, the cou11t down began. '\5-4-3-2-1 ... set... Go!\ Union to()k off with an amazing start, bl!t unfortunately they were too anxi-ol!s and had jumped the start. Women's crew gives it all they got in Philadelphia thispast ,..,veekend. would race again that afternoon for a second shot at making the semi- final heat. With a personal vendetta against Bucknell and tile desire to make a name for Unionwomen'screw, the selves for another2000mrace later in the day. This time around the competi- tion would be even stiffer and Union \ii\'ould have to place in the . top three slots to advance to The false start eased their jitters and pr()wed to the other crews that Union \iiVas aggressive an(\J ready f()r the: win. With nothing to lose, the bOtats realigned and t<>ok off t()wards tile finish line. [::JI Union held:first place for the first lOOOm ,of the course and then fell into a solid second. Pushing their physical ability to the limit, and fo- cusing en a soJ:id set, the women cruised past the finish line, secur- ing their spot in the .semi-finals. CommenJing o.n the race; thekcoachnoted that the girls had never looked so good as the friends and family ofUnion looked on. Sometlling unusual was ,hap- pening,.\ said Jouri, the women's coach. A final time of 6:56 was the best time for the, varsity women all sea- son. The next day the women took to the water ready to compete next to theirrival, Marist. Fromthestart, Union ,wasahead, never allowing the other crew to pass. Union counteracted any power moves that were taken. Witheachpower the ten women pushedthemselves further and just when they thought they couldn't push harder and move faster, they did. It was clear at the finish 'line that this race was done for no one but themselves. Their fourth place finish exem- pHfied their hardwotk all year and was admirable considering the size and make-up of the other crews. All inalHhe weekend was a great success on the women's side. To summarize the events in Pllilly: they rowed well, they rowed hard, and tlley ·rowed as one. [}{]c.-;>:w [Ji)[] .·.··\·· . ·'~·. The Sports Section is desperate fOr articles since all of Union sports are finished for the term. If you want to . . write any type of spo.rts editorial, have a humorous sp.orting experience or if their are small clubs that are still participating, ple\-se call Brian at X5603 to get YQrtt:r Wt~:rds h~ard . . _.,,, . ·,_.-,.: :··

s y (1 >A ... ~. 4 f'···=:· .. \£ u· c·AA· ·) . ~,~\-~:~v~· .. ~.~~u: .. -: .. .. _-· · . ·:' _ - SoftbaB (25---11/7-l UCAA) Tooms (4-7) · APRIL '•· . . .. . · .• ' . 2 ClARKS()N(2)· WonS.SWon 7-5 . 3 sr. LA~(2) Lost 4-1/Won 1-5 Lost 12-8 · 7 . ·atskidffnre 10 at~{2) ·. . 11 ·at~~k;siet(2) ·13 .~<·. - ':. -,~:·l'.'' ' ' ' Lost ~3/lost 5-l ··won:~~· · Won·i~15 .. ·· ; '·U>St~5' tl:H$.t!·~:2) ···.·:,~=~~ .... :!:~~q:~~'i7 ·: .. •,/ '' U)St 1~3lE&ti8-:6'· ' 'O·:. :·,·· <: ., . ···<i$4: ~:'·:~ . APRH... 6 8 10 13 15 17 20 22 24 ?:1 29 MAY I 7 APRIT, HARIWICK (2) Won.5-4/Won 3.2 5 SKIDM)RE Lost7-0 atWillialm (2) Lost.3-2!Lost2-l HAMILTON (2) Won 7-'l/ Won &2 M!IDIEBURY (2) Won-4-3/8-0 ALBANY(2) Won2.:(Vlost 5-2 9 at Clarkson Won 5-4 10 atSt lawrence Lost 5-2 13 at Uica Won 7-0 a:tUica(2) Lost S..2/Won 104 atRPl(2) Won 3-M.ost 3.2 NEW PALTZ (2) Won 5-4/Won 9-3 17 OCMChampiomhips Union Placed Sixth 18 at Hobart out of8 teams atSkichmre (2) Won 18-2/Won 12-3 ONEONfA(2) Lost 7-6/Won 12•7 20 at Oneonta. pddrain RUSSFIL SAGE (2) Won9-11Won 14-2 22 atRPI pddrain ROC~(2) Won8-l/Won4-0 24 VASSAR Lost7-(J ·NYSWCMQuarterfipals Lost 2-0 to Newplalz NYSWCM Consolation Won 7-3 ag;Unst Gen:seo NYSWCASS forFifthPJace Lost &0 tQ Hartvvick ,, ... ;.: . Men':s Lax (6~7/3-2 UCAA) Men's and (Men 0-1/Women 0-1) MARCH 31 ~ Ifartwick .. ~ ... , .... ),:< •· ,·' 'APRfL : · :i::·~~:!~~{' · . . , · 2 .·. at: Vassar · .. , . .f,.<!~ti~ro 6 .· MIDDLEBURY , . W6nH-9 ·~ atRPI \ _;>: ~~::~:~. . 10 at Slddrnore . ': : :: /·:. ,:,;;~---~~~.~·~·~2~. ~~ ~~ON . ·Won 21 \F .·. 17 ST. LAWRENCE · .. ~sW<~1\!tt'(.$/$trl;!Jwl'lence. ·. ···• f~~~i · .. . . .. . ~ ' . · WonJ542- · · LOst~l~t Lost 1&\9 tu .!Wwan 20 at Utica 22 GENESEO MAY 1 4 HAMlLTON WILLIAMS Lost 10-3 Won20-2 Lost 9-5 Lost20-7 Lost 10-8 Lost 7-4 Won 11-8 Won ll-8 Won 14-1 Won 10-8 Won 14-9 Lost 9-7 AFRIL 3 aHriltcn M list 103-1> (\\t) 104-29 10 a\W~Jani l2H\.1 16 l.:CAAlvhta: RPI BihMina:d Wmn 17 l.D\Alvhta: RPI Frishrl Fruth Crew APRIL·. 3 10 18 24 atRPI PRESIDENT'S CUP RACE/ with Hobart and William-Smith at Skidmore Gliman PLate & Cup Race at Hamil1()n Won all four races Lost in all five races 9AM Won 3 of 6 Races 1· Why ,does no member of the 1 : Union community ever answer 1 1 the \Question of the Week'' I E-mail your thoughts to concordy@vu.union.edu ...

THE Sports Starts on Page 16 · RIIRt,~et>,~;rt.esy SID · .. ' '' ' ~ ' ' . ' . ' ', . ' .

THE 't .;·; 0 ,. ' '--~~ <>-·:~· Th-e 1999 So.ftball Team_ Sports Starts on Page 16 0 p.hotos courtesy SID

'~Opinions cannot survive if one has no chance to fight for them. '' -Thomas Mann 'VolumeCxXVIII;NumberXXI~I-- .-. . · ·_:-'The Sttideirt N~_wspq~t·_oj ~nie·n College Since· 1877 _.- ·. · · .. :_~._:-,-i.'··.-·:··.···~\~.M~~- 1 ~3; j- 99 9. · . . .. · . ·. · ~.·. ·ht(p.:lfc,oncordy.unmn.ed~ ·.. . . . · . .-. · ·, . -. · ... · ·. · ... ·.-~· .... ·.: .. :·>:. ' ' ' ~ . . '' - . ~. - ' ' -· ·. -·~ . ,, ~- ' . '.. . ' ,, ' This Week News: Union's New Comedy Improv Group Page3 Op-inions: Student Examines Smoking World News: Israeli Elections Page 10 Sports: Block u Awards Page 19 Inside Campus News- 3 Technology- 7 Opinions- 8 WorldNews-10 A & E- 12 Features- 17 Sports-18 Our E-mail concordy@ vu.union.edu Four Students Accused of Hazing by David Brooks Editor-in-Chief At least four students fact! con- duct charges by Union College af- ter an al:teged hazing in- cident occurred two weeks ago, Thursday, May6. Police responded to a neighbor's call in which she described hearing gunshots near the apart- ment on I 068 Wendell Avenue. As the police arrived, tht:y noticed a young man, later identi- ficd of frc~h;ncn Tm!J Acatofl, running from the arartrnL'Ilt l-'\l'll aftn bt:ing told to stop, Beaton a llcgcJ 1;-. Will in- ued to run from the po- lice. He tried running to- ward the street, but the police were able to tackle Beaton on the sidewalk. The police later said that the gunshot the neigh- bors heard mightha\e been explod- ing fireworks. Sources close to the case sai4 that after searching the perimeter of the house, the police found no alcohol on the premises or any spent fireworks. Beaton was asked b) the police who might have been hazing him, and subsequently pointed out sophomore Matt Frese and junior Mike Cook, but also said he was not totally sure. Beaton apparently also had a blood alcohol level of .15, three times the limit in New York if you are 21 or ohkr, but Beaton is un,derage and Nt:v. York's legal said, shooting firecrackers at Beaton and forcing him to consume alcohoL The two will be arraigned later this month. Frese and Cook both deny these charges, saying there were no fireworks, and the these two, they are facing the same charges as Frese and Cook. The four wiU most likely by charged with Section I of the Student Cmduct Code, which say~. \Bt:havior '\hich threatens or endangers the \\ell- being or safety of others. or results in personal injury to others including haz- ing.\ Local newspaper ilave also suggested that Beaton was a pledge of the Delta Upsilon Fraternit). DU lost its campus rcsidcnce in April 1995 alter a hazing. in- ciJent. Dl; is digihle to ap- plj to return ll) campu'> lll'\t .\pril .. , clllllh>llll n~.·lt.i l'r~ilon.\ .,aid Col'\ ·rm 11\ll in .un f'r.tkrtlll\ ... \hl· . . Sloa11 Miller/TC ! 068 Wendell Avem.te. the sight of the alleged hazing inddeni. Cro~~- the 1.'\\..'llll 1\ 1.' J lrl'l'· hll of thl· I klt.r t f''-lilln ht:aJqu.tl1er'> in lnd1an apo- lis, said, \Delta Upsilon has absolutely no connection at Union College. We llope for an eventual return of DU to Union and we have been working with Fred lim it is .02, well under Beaton's . I 5 b)(}od alcohol I eve I. Despite I he fact that Beaton was not driving, tllis demonstrates thctt he was well u11der the influence. Frese and Cook were then ar- re>ted and tahen to the S<:hcnedady Pulice Dt:partrmnt wh.ere they were charged with sec- olld-dcgree hazing ror, the police only drinking that occum:d \-\-ere two beers by each Cook and Frese, and a glass of wine by both Beaton and LeBlanc. Conduct charges were filed against Frese, Cook, an..! two other juniors whu wen: at the huu:;e, Adam Ld3lanc anJ another student who wished to remain anonymous. Although Beaton did r1ut identify Alford, but \h' took a fi\e·)l\H liia- tus in 1995,\ and ended by saying, \When Union withdrew DU m 1995, the international governing committee jointly withdrew Union's DU charter.\ Dean Alford a Is o s t a tc d that D l J \\ \.. sus- pcndeJ fncHll tht: '>lhutll in I<JS6, Continued on page 3 Union Parties Like It's- 1999 by Jessica Zuehlke News Editor Union College students had the opportunity to engage in another year oflistening to music in the sun, enjoying free food provided by Dining Services and pla)ing in the \Nott Carnival.\ Springfest made an exciting return this past week- end, and with it came free fun and excitement in full force. Lucky for t!veryone, the day was beautiful. Bright sunlight and tem- peratures within ~he high seven- ties prov ideJ a great accompani- ment to the cotton canJ) ·t:ating, tan-seeking students. In case anyone was confused, Sp1 irt~f...-~t ',un~.: ,1 \\ l·d. ,.,til in th j, ) l'.ll Thi\ \\,I\ thl· il!d) \\l'l'l,l'ild <l\ailabk bccause thl' Rd'nion i~ the ~A~eck after week eight and Steinmetz was last weekend. Pro- gram Assistant Coordinator Liz Scmitt stated, \[The day of Springfest] is pretty arbitrary. We have to work around things that are already scheduled.\ Springfest is a major undertak- ing that costs both the Concert and Social Committee a huge amount of money. Tile bands, stage, food, rides, and the outdoor m()vie set these comm it1ees back ar&und $32,000. Music is one of tile highlights ofthe afternoon. 111 case you for- After their performance, the reggae sounds of Panagea fi lied the cam- pus. Late afternoon brottght sun- burns to the audience and Method of the Groove to the stage. Their Sloa1a Mill(r/TC Stl'angefo/k jams during Spring/est '99 g()t to wake up Satur<lay morning, a huge stage was set up in front of West College. The opening band this year was the sec&nd place win- ner of Battle ofthe Bands. Boba Fc;tt took the stage around 11 AM. outstanding perfom1ance was fol- lowed by the Burlington-based foursome, Strangefolk. This band ended their twelve-week tour with a well-attended show at Union. Strangefolk brought a following of many dedicated non-Union fans. During the gig, these and many other energetic individuals danced in front of the stage while others lounged in on blankets and tem- porary lawn-couches. Springfest day would not l1ave been complete without the annual Novelty games. This year's high- light was the Gyro. This circular machine mimics a gravity-free en- vironml'nt. Once strapped i.n at the feet and the waist, one holds on to two bars above the heaJ. Next. someone pushes one of the outer circks causing the thrl'l' ~_·irck·, h) intcrt\\ inL· Thi~ ridl· k,t\1.'' th,_· brave soul spinning in all different directions. !lllllh\li.1kl:- ,.\; 1 in~· tl:, r:,Jc, f'ri!.. l uLll·b ·nn _. .. ,rnnh·nr,·,J \Tl1.1' '.\ .r' .1\ L·~,,m,·' \' .·n tfl,,u~h 1 rl·L·IIih· my stomach is in my cars. I \\uuiJ do it again in a second!\ Other \hard-to-name\ nov city games included the Trampoline Thing. This device allowed stu- dents to do things on a trampoline they never thought possible. Strapped in at the waist, it was pos- Colltinued 011 page 4

Campus Life Page 2 • May 20, 1999 • m:nncnr.hiensis Security Incident Report Sunday, May 9,1999: Alcohol Abuse Life Safety Violation Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Criminal Mischief Monday, May 10, 1.999: Harassment Motm Vehicle Accident Larceny Harassment Criminal Mischief Tuesday, May 11, 1999: Fire Alarm Wednesday, May 12, 1999: Larceny Larceny brunobilized Vehicle Thursday, May 13, 1999: Criminal Mischief Life Safety Violation Friday, May 14, 1999: Marijuana Odor Fire Alarm hnmobiliZed Vehicle Criminal Mischief Larceny Larceny Trespass Mischief .. Saturday, May 15, 1999: Trespass Trespass Alcohol Violation Disorderly Conduct Arrest Alcohol Violation 1:2: 15am Chi Psi area. Paramedics notified. Conduct Charges filed. 12: l2PJ?1 West College. Damaged room smoke detector. 6:46pm Fox-Davidson parking lot. Vandalism to vehicle. 8:30pm West College, Entrance window shattered. 1 0:20pm Fieldhouse. Door r losing mechanism vandalized. 2:38am Potter House. P.rank phone calls 3:05pm South Lane. Property damage accident. No injuries. 4: I 2pm Feigenbaum Hall. Wallet taken from purse. 6:01pm Wells House. Harassment of student. Conduct Charges filed. 7:52pm Reamer Center. Vandalism to first floor causedby horseplay. 2:12am Psi Upsilon. Cause from equipment problem. 7:3 1 arn Perkins Gardens. Theft of wrought iron table. 9:30am Facilities Services. Theft of walkie talkie radio. 1:OOpm Riclnp.ond parking lot. VehiCle immobilized due to outstanding violations. 6:05am Wells House. Vand_alism to frontandreardoors 1 O:OOam Edwards House. Life Safety Violations issued for discharged room fire extinguishers. 2:14am Fox H~L Source unconfirmed . 4:51 ~ AlphaDelta PhL Lif~ salet)rViolatipri issued. . 9:41 ain. Vehicle immobilized due to outstanding violations. ll :40am Vandalism to college property. Conduct Charges filed 11 :31 am. Theft of wallet and contents. 3:15pm Bailey Hall. Theft of wallet and contents. 4:00pm Alumni Gym area. 4 individuals advised ofprivate property status. 5:30pm Edwards House. Conduct Charges filed I 2:03am Davidson Hall. 3 individuals advised of private property status. I 2:27am North Terrace Lane. 2juvenilesturned over to Schenectady Police Department. 11 :07am Sigma Chi. Violations of the alcohol policy. Conduct Charges filed. 11: 52am Raymond parking lot. Offensive behavior. Conduct Charges filed. 4:38pm West College beach. Subject arrested for outstanding warrant. . ' Announcements Give BloQd TODAY!!! · Tbursd~y, May 20 llAMtolPM in the Davidson lounge Did You Kn-ow??? The Nott Memorial won ~'Best.Jndoor Location bl Conte,mplate .the Meaning of Life\ in the Times Union's ~'Best of the Capitol Region\ Poll Union Colle~e Spri:ng Scramble Golf Tournament Sunday, M~y 30 Sign~ Up Sh~ets Availa'ble in CablpUs Cen.ter Entry Mon~y DUE Friday M~y 21 in Box 1688 Questions? Conta~t Erik Lukach at ray.monde@union.edu. Return ·oftbe Personal Ads!! E-mail your comments, thanks, annonymous s~cret love letters ••• anything goes. concordy@vu.urlion.edu ~·-------------------------------------------- I Scream, You Scream, We AU Scream for Ice Cream!! Ice Cream Social Friday, May 21 5:30PM to S:OO PM in Old Chapel Check out the New Concordiensis Webpage! Visit http://concordy.union.edu for the latest look into campus and world news, opinions, sports and features. Term in Washington, Spring 2000 The Political Science Department announces applications for next year's Washington Congres- sional Internship pr()gram. Applications due Friday, June 4 by 4:00PM Ushers Needed for Cmnmen.cement 1999 See Donna Johndrow in the Students Activities Office, Reamer Campus Center Room 408 Robert Avon Smith Sommer Research Fellow- ship in Bio~Medical Engineeri~g at Union College. Tlze fellowship is sponsored by Robert A von Smitlt, Class of 1952. It is awarded io students in tire sciences or engi- neering who participate iii a summer researclt program in ---------------------------------1 bio-.medical engineering under the guidance of Union 5:45pm Campus in general. Several violations of alcohol violations. Conduct Charges filed. 7:23pmB:ailey Field .. Theftofduffel bags and belongings. Larceny Strategies for survival if confronted with assault: * Non-resistance to prevent physical violence * Negotiate * Stall for time * Distracting or diverting the assailant, then fleeing * Verbal assertiveness * Screaming, using a whistle or shriek alarm to attract attention or help * Physical resistance - techniques which may be used as a last ditch effort to escape an attacker. College faculty. Tlze award wUI be made availahle to « student selected on tlte basis of ability to conduct indepe.11i/ent research in bio- medical engineering and commitment to tlte summer research program Students interested should contact Professor J. Richard Shmtehrook in tlze Department of Mechanical Engineering. Reappointment Review ofProfessor Hyungji Park Faculty, students and administrators familiar with Professor Park's teaching., scholary activity; and/or college service are welcome to submit ~omments to Professor Bonney MacDonald, Chair ofthe English Deparment at macdonab@union.edu. ! I~ t I l ,, l • 1 1 :J ( t r c ) s l t i' 0 f. r: a 1- tl \ a ir C• ir is v; fr is is PI C< ti: de th to w cc m sh in br Tl pc an pc ye gil le€ be, pu SOl wb Le. in& an; sle oth am sd

I l l I. Campus News (fian.llor~ensis• May 20., 199? • Page 3 Students Pay to Take the Shot Comedy Improv-Style stated that college students are at greater risk then any other age group. It is for this reason that Union offered the Meningitis vac- cination last Wednesday. but when analyzed, is an adequate outcome. Idol Minds Makes Its Campus Debut by Erin Connolly Staff Writer All around campus, bright or- ange.signs urging students to Take a Sh>Ot popped up. At first glance the: posters seemed to be whimsi- cal. Yet, after stopping to take a cl~ser look, it was discovered that they were advertising a vacci11ation for Meningi- tis. w:hat is Meningitis, and w'hy is Union offering the vacc illation? Meningo- coccal infection, or one its forms commonly known as mangiest is an unpleasant blood infec- ti.on. M eningoc.occal Me11ingitis is caused by a •bacterial infection that in- du~eshrflammation efthe m e111 branes surrounding bot!) the brain and spinal cord The immunization is safe and ef- fective. The one mild side effect is redness ancl swelling around the site of the injection. However, the When considering this low per- centage, one must not forget the fact that the vaccination lasts three years. This means .that seniors may have already gotten the vac- cination. A representative ofthe Vacre Health company, who was by Mary Felton Staff Writer Adding some fun and amuse- ment to Union's campus was the goal of Idol Minds, Union·s new comedy improv group. The group has given Union a taste oftheir ability to entertain in three differ- ent performances given within the past week New this term, Idol Minds was started by Jon Zandman and Miil~e Winn, both Union students. and members of the improv group. These two students hadbeen talk- ing about creating a comedy group almost a year ago. This past winter they ap- proached Mountebanks, the stu- dent acting group on campus, with their idea. Mountebanks, now their sponsor, funded a series of seminars for Idol Minds training. These seminars were conducted by members of the Mop and Bucket Company, a comedy grotip Evoen though Meningi ... tis can be deadly, ( 10% peo;ple With Meningococ- cal Meningitis die each year:). its sympt()msare not Union students line up to take the Meningitis vaccination shot. from the Albany area. se-ver.e. This causes many prob- lems in its dectection, because rnamr infected individuals mistake it forcommon aches and pains and d(}n't seek help. Me:ningitis symptoms include fever,. s:evere headache, stiff neck, rash:, nausea, V()miting and leth- argy;. Sandy Mashers, Director of HeaJth Services, commented about the importance of the vaccine. \Thef;e symptoms are so common and Cl()uld be the cause of many infections. Students constantly. corn plain of these problems, com- ing in with them all the time. That is wlhy it is so important that these vacc:ines are •offered.\ Another friglite11ing fact about Meningitis is its sbort incubation period. This is tile amount oftime it takes for a pers!Dn with the infecti.on to be- come ill. For sufferers of Meningi- tis, tb[s time is only three to four days 1111inimum, ten days maximum. Meningitis is spread very easily through close prolonged exposure to infected air·supply. Another way in which meningitis can be co11tracted is through mouth to moutfu contact such as kissing, sharimg toothbrush, and/or drink- ing fr(llm the same glasses. Co• liege campuses are the perfect breeding ground for this bacteria. This iis why a vaccination is so im- portant. There are between 3,000 and 4;000 cases ofMeningitis re- porte·d in the United States each year. New information on Menin- gitis, found by the American Col- lege He~tlth Association (ACHA), mild .discomfort caused by the in- jection is a small price to pay for protection· from Meningitis for up to four years_ \The shot stung a bit, but the redness only lasted 24 hours, not really a big deal,\ one student com- mented two days after her vaccina- tion. The clinic was held in Hale House on May 12 between 11 AM and 7 PM. 1'he co~ of the vaccination was 75 dollars, which may have seemed expensive to some, but in truth was offered to the campus at a reduced rate. Cash, credit cards, checks and the student account could all be us.ed t<J pay for the shot. Students fi.IJed out a consent form and pai<l the fee when first entering Hale House. The bustle of the .atmosphere .included ner- vous commetits from anxious stu- dents. After having gotten the shot, students were told to sit and wait fifteen mi11utes while filling out a survey. Cockies and beverages were provided to raise blood sugar to reduce post-needle dizziness. Union is n<>t the first college to offer the Meni11gitis vaccine; both Lafayette and Lehigh Universities embraced the Meningitis vaccina- tion. Furthermore, both Lafayette and Lehigh experienced a com- mendable tum<>ut. Union hoped for the same lligh turnout and ex- perienced it. On campus, the num- ber of vaccinations administered reached closet(} six hundreds. This is about a 25o/() immunization rate. The number that may s.ound.Jow, present at the day of the immuni- zation, stated, \Our target sample did not include last year's stu- dents because vaccinations are not high of their list priorities.\ Vacre Health was the company used by Union's Health Services to make it possible to offer Union student the Meningitis vaccina- tion. Student reactions to the vac- cination were mixed. Many didn't understand why the va9cine was being offered now. Unfortunately, this leads to unconfirmed mes- sages and rumors. One student stated, \I heard a rumor that a stu- dent in Albany died from Menin- gitis and that is why Union is hav- ing the shots on campus.\ Another who did received the vaccination had the \better safe then sorry\ attitude. \My general thought is, 'what can it hurt?\' He said.this before having the prick of the sharp needle! Other students found that the protection of the vaccine came at . a hefty price. \l have a black and blue spot on my arm the size of a quarter,\ was one student's com- ment, a day after the vaccihe. Union's Health Services offered At the beginning of spring tenn, auditions were held for spots in the improv group, will be held again in the fall as three seniors in the group win be graduating. After seven weeks of practice and preparation, this comedy team of nine was teady to display their energy arid humor to the Union community. On Monday, May 17, ldo I Mindsgavetheirfirst <'>fficial per- formance at 8 PM in Old Chapel. There was a ve-ry positive turn- out for tlJis show, and in the a udi- ence were some prominent mem- ·bers ofthe Union community, such as Dean Alford. Earlier last week at the Coffee House and during Springfest, Idol Minds gave smaller renditions of what they in turn performed tllis past Monday night. Monday night's entertainment began with Zandman and Winn introducing their group and efl- couraging audience participation in their show. Talent comes in many ways. One of the most notable is when an actor can actively engage with his/her audience. Idol Minds ful- fi.lled this task on Monda:y protection to Union's student through their incredible audience body with a successful turnout. .. participation. The same company plans to come The most intriguing thing about back to the campus in the Fall in this .comedy act is that the per- order to vaccinate new freshman formers do not use a script. They as well as those who missed out ·.work from scenarios given by au- on their chance. . dience members. Future plans for Union Health One type ofimprov performed Services include a programs simi- by two ofthe actors involved get- Iar to this one. ting a list of emotions from the au- Students Accused in Off-Campus Hazing Incident becallse of a hazing incident. Tile fO'ur students are facing ex- puJsicm if convicted of the charges, sources; say. Cook stated, \This whOiletiitng had consumed by life.\ LeB Ialli() added, \When you're fac- ing cliarges like this,. it's hard to do anythil!g. I have barely eaten or slept in the last two weeks.\ The other student, who wants to re111ain anonym()US said, \it's hard to do schoOil work and concentrate in .•. continued from page I class; especially when I know I didn't do anything wrong.\ If found guilty by the Conduct Committee, which is composed of nine students, they will recommend a sanction to Dean Alford. Alford either approves the sanction., or changes it to wltat he feels appro- priate, such as what happened in the Sigma Deltll Tau hazing inci- dent at the end of last term. SOT was given a sanction by the con- duct committee, but it was over- turned by Dean Alford. However, if the committee finds the students innocent, the decision cannot be overturned by Dean Alford. Dean Schurick is in charge of the investigation and is not able to speak about the incident until the investigation is complete. Dean Alford spoke relatively little of the process, because he, too, was not at liberty to discuss the details of the case until it is com- pleted. Beaton has had past problems with alcohol, including an incident last fall, according to an anony- mous source. Beaton could not be reached for comment. Initial reports indicate the stu- dents' conduct hearing would be held today, but as the investiga- tion continues to develop, sources say the hearing will likely be switched to Monday_ dience. After c<>m pletirtg this list a scenario was ~eveloped where the two actors were told to pretend they were in a supermarket, ()fie being a cashier and the other a customer. Once the two- actors had assumed these roles, another per~on in the group alternately told each one of them to act out .different emotions. While the cashier migltt be de- pressed, the customer could be told to act excited. This wa~ just one example ofthecreativity displayed last Monday night. Braelin Pantel, an audience mem- ber on this evening, commented, \It was really amazing that [tile improv group] .could be so creative and funny on the spot.\ Another student, Heather Devlin, remarked on the event by saying, \I wish I could do what [the j)erfonn- ers] were able tDdo.\ Members oftllis innovative and talented ensemble are Jon 2andman, Mike Winn, Muk Wi II, Liz Kaier, UmberGold, Greg Fox, A vrum Joffe, Jon ill Mayer and Phoebe 13urr. Another extremely entertaining act during the sh()W was called ''60- 30-15-5,\ whiclt was perf(}rmed by Zandman and Wirm, in which, again aplace, \Sea Wo.rld,\andarelation- ship, third-grade student and teacher, were given to tlte perform- ers by the audience. These two had to create a scene on their own wllich woul<l last 60 seconds. Then tfley had to perfonn the scene in 30, 15 and 5 seconds succinctly, making them increas- ingly faster. Throughout this past Monday's performance an<l the previous ones, the audience wa.s very receptive and erupted witll laughter at the comic talent shoP~n by these niw· students. Another student, Lauren Tabas, commentedthat,'\They were a very creative group with lots of poten- tial. Watching them was like watch- ing, 'Whose line is it anyway,' live (which is a televis.ion show, shown on Comedy Central and AS.C).\ There will be two to three more large performances(like the one this past Monday) given before the end of spring term. 1here is a f)Ossibil- ity of one occurriltg as soon as next Tuesday. As mentioned boefore, this group is altogether entertaining, witty, clever and incredibly creative in the improvs they have been able to per- form. The group\ s practicing and patience over time has paid off in a tremendous way. Most importantly, Idol Minds pro- vided their audie11ces with a lot of .. laughter and smiles, not to mention the memories. Checkout the Return ofth.e Personals .•• Page 4

Page 4 • May :o, 1 «J99 • ~nur:nrnieu:sis Campus News Union Photographer Wins Prize Truman's Dirty Lobster Show by Jessica Stephens Contributing Writer The Schenectady Photographic:: Society recently awarded Unio11 sophomore Aaron Seliger a Ph~­ tography Scholarship Grant. Seliger. competed against other students from Capital District area coUeges at the second annual competition he!<!. on April29 at a nearby church on State Street. Tile contest was open to nearby non-senior college students wllo have art or art-related majors. Tile contestants were asked to bring a max.imum of five wDrks with them which were used to determine tile winners. Seliger submitted three single photographs and a handmade pho- tographic album entitled, \Pictures of People.\ The album was a series of snap- shots taken of individuals trom botil Schenectady and New York City, and all pieces were in black and white film. At the contest, the _ students displayed their work which was later critiqued a11d judged. l'he two men who judged the event, a freelance photographer and an owner of an Albany-based camera store, awarded Seliger se<:- ond place. The prize for this achievement was two-hundred dollar grant. Seliger intends to use the money for the purchase of11ew photographic materials and sup- plies. l'he event is one of many spo11- sored by the Schenectady Phgto- graphic Society, whose members share an affinity for .photography. This love ofr:>hotography can be a hobby or pmfession. The orga- nization holds regular meetings, hosts lectures and ilas numerous workshops that focus on the art ofphotography. Seligerhimselfis considering tile idea ofjoiningthe group, but for the time being, Union keepshim well occupit::J. Seliger'sinspirations in the sub- ject may be attributed to his sister, who was very involved in photog- raphy during her own high school years. He foHowed in her foot- steps, taking photos throughout his senior year. Presently, Seliger is taking Photography 2, having completed Photography 1 fresh- man year. Seliger was highly complimen- tary of his experiences with pho- tography here at Union. When asked if the school provided the photographically inclined student with opportu11ities Seliger replied, \Union has a good photography department. People who never had the cha11ce to take this type of course have Photography l at their disposal. \I had prior kn<Jwledge from high school which made it a little easier for me in the beginning, but after the introduction, the class got working ~ight away. After Pho- tography 1, yGuthen proceed with Photography 2 and 3.\ Seliger has acquired a substan- tial portfolio of work and his pho- tographofaSchenectadyman was on display for the Steinmetz Sym- posium. A plaque recognizing Seliger's Scholarship Grant was displayed beneath this selected artwork. When asked if there were future by ClarkJoues StaffWriter ambitions associated with pho- Amidst a packed house, the long tography besides an Art History . · lines, and the beat ofthe Irish band, and Studio Art Interdepartmental stood the main actor in this whole Major, Seliger replied, \I would . affair, the stinky red lobster. But, love to get into it more. It would · oh my my my, he tasted so good. be nice to benefit academically As students dug their teeth deep from photography, not just be . intohismoistbody, theyreminisced happy because of it. It would be about their childhood days, cool to publish a book or some- · thing, but I wiU be happy either way because I like doing it. I wouldn't mind being a photogra- ' phy teacher, either.\ Seliger's dedication and inter- est in photography is evident in his summer plans. He intends to remain at school for the warm months with an internship under Professor Benjamin, who also in- formed Seliger about the contest opportunity. Steven·s, and David Roselle chanted \Jump shake that booty, jump, jump.\ Following this awesome display of choreography, the students mi- grated to their own abodes, and indulged. As dusk consumed us with the blazing sunset, the migration cul- minated in an orgy of movie watch- ers. But did they watch? Jim Carey's The Truman Show, at- Seliger has clearly enveloped himself in an exciting activity which is eivinghim deserved rec- ognition. Besides the classroom and Arts building, students can find the sophomore diligently working as a lifeguard atthe swim- ming pool. Rebecca Walsh/TC Elyce Aherne and Joanna Kontodakis anticipate their tasty Meanwhile, the Union College community can look forward to seeing more of this young man's talent displayed across campus. Seliger's gregarious personality is a piece of artwork as well. ... lobsters at the Lobster Dinner on Friday. lolly gaging down the shores ofthe Maine coast, yearning for lobsters. Sophomore Craig Theisen ada- mantly stated,\ I want more, I need more.\ tempted to capture the students' attention, but failed in doing so. Bottles were flying, tongues were tangling, and toes were tickling. Indeed, it was an orgy of movie watchers. Springfest: Gets ·th;e Campus Jumping The atmosphere was carnival- like, but relaxed at the same time. It was the calm before the stonn. For some people, this was the ~nd to an eventful evening, but for most, Sex on the Beach was just around the corner. It was wet and wild, the shirts were off, and the grind was on. ..• continuedfrompage 1 sible to do front and backwards course included inflatable walls to somersaults and flips in the air. climb over, nets to climb up, and a \lt was so cool. I have a trampo- slide to jump down. line at home, but have never be~n The beautiful day com p le- able to flips with such ease. Wha1 mented the g,ames in many ways. a day!\ said Clark Jones '(}I, wllo Rain would nave posed a huge successfully completed a douhle probkm forSpringfest goers. Had back flip. .,..,..---.-------- The Jousting game was the site of much contro- versy and competition this Springfest Saturday. Two people got to duke it out in helmets and pads. The winner ofthe contest went to the student who could keep his/her bal- ance the longest. Many surprises re- sulted from this \Ameri- can Gladiator\ game. One individual got off from the mat surprised that she had won. \[My competi- tor] is a foot taller than me, but I still kicked his butt!\ A lot of this had to due with the fact that there were many more in- dividuals on campus than just stu- dents. From 9 to II AM, there was an engineering competition at the Olin Center. This brought in a number of high school students Sloan Miller/TC The Rock Pyrmad and the Bungee Run made visits to Union again this Two Union students go head-to-head during their jousting competition. year. Many people lined up to get a chance to scale the wall of the air- filled cone or to sling past their com- petitor while hooked to a long bungee cord. \The Bungee was full, even though l got plastic-burn on my knee from sliding along the floor of the runway. At least I grabbed the bean-bag first!\ stated Caryn Anapolsky '99. Finally, the Giant Slide/Obstacle Course stood high, but paled in comparison to the height ofthe Nott This game enabled two partners to compete, again for first place. Tile there been ittclement weather, the bands wot~ld have perfonned in the rink. HGwever, there would have been no place for the rides. They wo ul.d have been postponed until Sunday in the fieldhouse. \We could11't have them in the fieldhouse 011 Saturday because ofthe2000 P'erson track meet. We were really lu:cky withthe weather,\ stated Brian Roache, VP of Cam- pus Life. The one negative aspect ofthe day was attributed to the time spent waiting in lines for the rides. from around the area. Another contributor to the lines was due to the fact that the col- lege hosted the Eddy Meet, a track meet with 2000 high school stu- dents. At 5 PM, Dining Services un- veiled the food. The smell of the huge barbecue of hamburgers, hot dogs, veggie-burgers, and des- serts filled the air. The cost of the feast was one meal-swipe, or $7 .50. The whole day was an enor- mous success filled with fun and sun. In only a few short hours, our campus would behold the second coming of the lobster. Red Vomit. But while we were enjoying this prized annual event, we were in the presence of an up and coming Irish band named Drumstei.Ja. Their tal- ented musicians had everyone do- ing the Irish jig, preparing for the onslaught that would follow. But hold on. Before and after this meat fest (at 5 PM and 7 PM), we · were blessed with the beauty and entertainment ofthe Union College Dance Team. As their hard work and endless hours of practice were displayed so enthusiastically, sophomores Alex Hunt, Lee The DJs filled the air with mist, and the sound of 98 Degrees sing- ing\ You're my sunshine after the rain.\ As tile students poured out amid the tree tinklers and the booty grabbers, there was a feeling of unfinished business. A few flours of sleep would stand in the way, only for the troop- ers. This was a wonderful day, a highlight of the spring term. One can only count down the days un- til the next Spring Fest and another weekend of bliss. Personals Concordiensis would like to thank the Social and Con- cert Committees f()r a won- derful and full Springfest (especially the Gyro)! The sisters of Gamma Phi Beta would like to thank the brothers ofKappa Sigma for a great Daiquiri Party. Thanks to Health Services for sponsoring the Meningi- tis vaccination. Hey Sarah, I had furt this weekend (you kn~w what I mean)! Roger Happy Birthday Fred! The campus would like to thank Dining Services for sponsoring the incredible Lobster Dinner! Thanks,. Clark, for your ar- ticle, I almost laughed my --- offi Sorry to whoever J.·hitwith a bottle at the outside movie. Who knew glass bounces off bones? Email your personals to concordy@vu.union.edu. ., !' I I, ,, ii I . I I M Wl m: dr ca afi ist w of te. dG m at R1 le e' tu sc T Jc c c Sc ta B w te th m D B Ia ~ S1 ti ti v p p t r t 1

I '· ~ I ;: I . I I Campus News. C!Innr:.orhi.eusis • .May 20, 1999 • Page 5 Squeezing a Tube of Toothpaste the Hard Way byShaun Mcntana Staff Writer Remember playing the game Mouse Trap as a kid? The game was a complex system made up of many simple parts all designed to drop a plastic net onto a mouse. Machines ofth;js type are often called Rube Goldberg machines, after the Pulitzer Prize winning art- ist who satirized new technologies with his inventions. Last Satarday, before the start of the Springfest activities, five teams of local high school stu- dents participated in the first an- nual Rl!be Goldberg CompetiHon at Union. Their goal: design a Rube Goldberg machine using at least 20 steps to perfonn a simple everyday activity: squeezing a tube of toothpaste. thereagaintllis year, and grew from five teams competing to over 30. \We sh~uld see the same hap- pen herene:xt year,\ Dean Balmer said, '\when we hope to make it a statewide competition.\ Each team competing received :a Rube Goldberg Competition tee vention was required. Each team was given an oppor~ tunity t<J start the machine and have it <:omplete the task in five minutes. After this five minutes ·expired, or if the machine did the task faster, each team had time to reset the machine for a second of Engineering LanyHollander. Five Union engineering students served as judges' assistants a11d official tim- ers. The machines ranged from small attd simple to large and cpmplex. First-place winner Salem Central High School's macili11eused an old Macintosh omputer, go's, light ensors and a gaseous mix- ofvinegar and baking oda to suc- cessfutly drop weig·ht on the of tooth- Mohonasen High's team, which came in machine Op- erationGingivi- usingGl Joe figures both for on the end onto the tube. Schenectady High School's ma- chine used a three-tiered frame, and centered on melting wax to start a reaction that rolled a weight down a .steep ramp onto the toothpaste tube. Finally, Johnstown High's ma- chine used various Lego' s, mouse traps,. and aH expanding balloon to drop a small but heavy weight from a 'little tower onto the tube. Including the judges, over forty people crowded into the Olin Building to watch the competitiom. Some machines only worked on onetry, or required a little help from the students who built and de- signed them. Those in attendance were gen- eraJ.ly impressed with the quality and creativity of the students and the machines they built. Dean Balmer commented that it qt~ile simply makes engineering fun. \It's a great way for students to showcase their design talents and inspire an interest in engineer- ing at the same time.\ Each teatnconsisted of four high school students and an advisor. The students were from Johnstown Central, Mohonasen Central, N iskayum Central, Salem Central and Scllenectady High School. Their machines filied five tables in the atrium of the Olin Building Saturday morning as they waited for the judging ofthe con- test to begin. Thirdplace team Niskayuna High School .students pose by their toothpaste machine. display and .as part ofthe ma- chine. Various Gretchen Dawson-Turner, As- sistant to the Dean, said she thought it would be a fun thing to do for students,. even if they were not necessarily interested in engi- neering. ''After all, it's not every day you get to build or see an elaborate contraption do some- thing simple in an innovative way.\ As onlookers walked around, the students explained how their machines were supposed to work. The contest was the idea of Dean of Engineering Robert Balmer, who helda similar contest last year while still at Madison, Wisconsin. The contest was held shirt, baseball cap, and certificate. The winning team received tickets to Great Escape· for all team mem- bers and $200 to support future projects. Each machine was judged on a variety of areas, from number of steps to creative use of materials and how many times human inter;.. Environinentalist Wes Jackson Lectures by Kate Schmidt Staff Writer \We are children of a dying star,\ declaJ;ed Wes Jackson. \It's time we begin to rethink ()Ur rela- tionship to the land.\ Wes Jaok- son, environmental author and President and Co-Founder of The Land Institute in Salina, Kansas along witll Bill Vitek, Associate Professor of Philosophy at Clarkson University and Visiting Professor at Union, spoke at a workshop this Monday on the im- portance ofbec<lming native to a place. Jackson started the Land Insti- tute in September of 1976 with the hope of creating a \sustainable al- ternative in agriculture, waste management and culture,\ writes Evan Eisenberg of the Atlantic Monthly. His institute is an attempt t<l build a natural ecOs)lstem commu- nity where individuals take part in a reciprocal relationship with the land. ,Jackson's appi·oach to the Land Institute and the environment, cen- ters around his idea that one must become native to a place and \dig in\ to their surroundings. . He argues that Universities have failed to educate stude11ts on the importance ofbecoming \na- tive to oar places in a coherent community that is turn embedded in the ecologicalrealities of its sur- rounding landscape.\ Jackson's workshop posed tile idea of a homecoming major; ama- jor that would encourage students and educators to claim a place by exhibiting affection and engage- ment tot11e land. \'The universities now offer only one serious major: upward mobil- ity. Little attention is paid to edu- cating the young to return home or go to some other place and dig in. \You cannotthink globally. You cannot have affection for a planet, but you can for a place, a town, a stream. Affection is developed when you stay in a place and inter- act with the land.\ Jacks()n encourages students to steer clear from environmental mega-solutions, and start with smaller·solutions in a community. He confesses that it won't be easy, but it is far past time to begin to changeourway ofthinkingand in- teracting without environment. Jackson has made. a serious commitment to the environment and to education about environ- · mental issues and solutions. He encourag~s our generation to make a serious change. \lsn 't it time we begin figuring out a way to earn a living and amuse ourselves cheaply, which is · to say with the least expense tq our life support system? \It's time to find our way home and use what little time is left for partial redemption of this prodigal generation.\ Union would like to thank this speaker for encouraging environ- mental action on campus. run. Points were tabulated based on both attempts. Speed and ease of resetting were fact<Jred into the final scores, as well as the success of the ma- <:hine. Union engineering pro- fessors Tom Jewell, Andrew Wolfe, and Ron Bucinell served as judges~ along with former Dean Simpson's fig- ures, marbles, and tamps were also used in the machine to roll a cylin- der onto the toothpaste tube. Third-place Niskayuna High School used a huge machine, span- ning two tables; with tinker toys, soda bottles, and marbles on ramps to pound toothpaste out by .continu- ally dropping a lever with a weight Photos from the competition can be seen on-line at: http: ! 'tar dis. u n ion. e d u . me dept:'rubelpics/ - - . ~ Fornt·ula -·One ,CoHlpe~tes· in~Det~eit by Pif'ofessor Frank Wicks Contributing Writer The personal automobile was · largely pioneered in America and manufactured in Detroit and is ar- guably tlte most important new technology of our century. Its door to door convenience and ability lo routinely transport us over large distances with great comfort has changed the way we live and the demographics of the industri~lized world. Whi )e dramatic improvements have been made over tbe last cen- tury, even more r e v <ili! t i o n a r y changes must be made if the auto- mobile is to sur- vive for anothe century. Thus, the Society of Auto- motive Engineers; along with Ford, Chrysler and Gen- eral J\t1()tors, have develoJ>ed design com pet it ions for the nex:.t genera-~;;:.~:::...~~ racer that can be bui It for under $9,000. The design must be ex- plained and defended to industry professionals who serve as judges. Timed competitions measure accel- eration, stability, maneuverability and endurance. How does someone leam how t0 build a car? Early auto makers were largely self-educated inventors and industrialists. Henr)' Ford ( 1863- 1947) spent 18 years pursuing his dream of a reliable motor car that would be affordable by the average American. The 1908 Mode IT finally milking sketches and studying the literature. Tile primitive cars evolved into increasingly complicated system:> that required many types of engi- neering disciplines. The industry created many challenges. New pro- grams educated the next genera- tionsof automotive engineers who have made tremendous improve- ments in automobile design, manu- facturing and performance. The increasingly complicated vehicles, however, led to increas- ing specialization, and fewer engi- neers who had a ~~r:--:--::~::::;;::=:-:::::;::2W,~t h orou gh under- C()urtesy ()f P r Wicks standing of the ire vehicle. An automobile engi- neer might spend his career on a single component such as bearings, bodies, suspen- sions or steering mechanisms. .tion ofengineers. Uni'()l1 College engineering stu- Formula Car driver Jake Rower with Mark Eberhardt, Aaron Pincus arza Jim Bailey. Revolutionary new vehicles re- quire engineers who are experts on the entire ve· hicle as a system along with under- standing each dents Jim Bailey, Mark Eberhardt, Jeremy 1-lasbrouck, Aaron Pincus and Jake Rower have responded to the challenge of designing~ · building and testing a Formula Car. This week they are traveling to Detmit to compete against en- gineering students from across the C()Ul1try. The design objective is to pro- duce a limitedproduction amateur fulfilled his vision. Walter Chrysler (1&75·1940) was an apprentice railroadrnachinist with a passion to learn about machines and the power that made them run. He started his personal automotive education in 1907 by b()rrowing money to buy a car, and then over the next three years he totally disas- sembled and reassembled the ve- hicle and its engine forty times while component that comprise the car. This experience is most effec- tively acquired by designing, building and testing a new vehicle and then competing against other teams. The Union College formula car is helping to provide our students and the next generation of auto- mobile engineers with this best type of educational experience.

Page 6 • May 20, 1999 • (!I.nncnrhiensis Union Choir Takes on Montreal by Kristen Slawinski Contributing Writer On the weekend.of April23, the Union College Choir set outto con- CfUer the world. Well, almost. One- h. a If of the choir set out on Friday a.fternoon and the other half early ()fi Saturday morning, headed for tile St. Lawrence port of Montreal, Quebec. After settling into their rooms at fhe Marriott Courtyard Hotel, lo- cated in the heart of the city, the first group of students set out to investigate the city and search for the ultimate in French cuisine. Curtailed by a cold Northeast wind and the tlarkness whiCh covered the city, the Friday arrivals decided on an Ita! ian eatery/restaurant not too far from the Hard Rock Cafe, just offSt.Catherine Street. Never falling sh()rt in the supply ofbread and olk~ oil, the table finished and •·elaxed l>efore venturing out into the cold Canadian air. The next day, the second group <lf choir rnembers joined the first group at St. Matthew's Anglican Church and together they polished the musical nuances at dress re~ hearsal that afternoon. Later that evening, the singers split into di f- ferent groupe;. One group hopped on the Metro, the underground subway system i11 Montreal, while another trekked\() the French historic part of downtown near the St. Lawrence River. After filling their stomachs, a group of people checked out the !MAX theater, where you feel in- side the movie. Other students sat and relaJCed over some tea and cof- fee in a nearby cafe. Sunday proved to be the most rewarding day ofthe trip. After waking to the sound of an eight o'clock alarm, the choir gathered in the hotel lobby. Stuffing crois- sants in their mouths, they headed out for St. Matthew's again. Walter Cook and Sue Guido, both choir members who work at the Office ofComputer Services here at Union College, were instrumen- tal in encouraging punctuality ftom everyone, along with our choir di- rector, Professor Dianne McMullen. The Schubert Mass in G Major was focus of the concert. Crystal Hilton, a sophomore soprano, per- formed the solo in the ''Kyrie,'' standing in for Lauren Brecher, who was unable to take part in the trip at the last minute. Freshman Anna Kertser and sophomore Risheet Patel sang the soprano and bass solos, respec- tively, in the \A gnus Dei,\ the last movement ofthe Mass. Senior Ed Valachov ic balanced Hilton's per- formance with his own bass solo in the \Gloria.\ Among the other pieces, Mendelssohn's \How Lovely are the Messengers\ and Beethoven's \In Mercy Hear Us\ were favorites with the congrega- tion. Immediately following the per- formance, choir members attended a brunch sponsored by Frederick Francis, our host and esteemed administrator at Concordia Univer- sity. The choir mingled with Fred and many members of the congre- gation, who complemented the singers for their attentiveness to Professor McMullen and on their crisp Latin articulation. In the midst of pleasant conversation, brunch was served, which in- cluded, undoubtedly, the largest salad this world will ever see. Food! Stuffed to the gills and tired:, the singers headed south of the border, arriving at Union several hours later. After arriving in Richmond park- ing lot, Risheet Patel, Choir Trea- . surer, said he was \glad choir gave us the opportunity to go to Montreal. All of us had a great time ,in the city, and the concert on . Sunday went really well. lfs neat to be able to sing in different loca- tions. I hope the Union College Choir keeps up the traditions it has · set this year.\ And continue it shall. Tile per- fmmance in Mo11treal by no means wrapped up the Union College Choir concert schedule. The Choir performed 12 days later, at the Steinmetz Symposium on May 7. The focus of that concert was the complete Schubert MassinG Ma- jor. Freshman Anna Kertsermade her conducting debut there, with a piece by Mendelssohn. On. Satur- day, May 22 the Choir performs a ReUnion Weekend concert. On the program is Haydn's Missa St. Nicolai and works by Charpentier, Beethoven, and Schubert. Sopho- more Jennifer Huntington wi II make her conducting debut with a piece by Beethoven. Choir manager Kristen Slawinski invites those students who have not .. yet heard the Choir to come tak.e a listen to what they have to offer on May 22 at 3:00 PM in Me- morial Chapel. \They just might be surprised!\ says Slawinski. Campus News Student Forum Notes Meeting Wednesday May 12, 1999 Student Forum Meeting on Wednesday, May 12, 1999 Meeting called to order 7:30pm Absent- Parisi~ Crowell,.Montas, Edelman, Okeefe, McKinney Caso Ia Motion t<> approve minutes from 5/5/99,. I.,ynch Second- Roache In favor- 12. Oppose- 0. Ab- stain- I. Minutes passed. Motion to approve age11da- Chaplin Second- Zandman All in favor. Pass. OFFICER REPORTS Finance-Schuler for Parisi- UMMED blldget: club status? Roles expanded on campus. May 20,.6:30 pm at Sig Phi: approval of a11 budgets for 1999-2000 school year. Lemle- Holding account low. C()ncert committee to give back $6000. Administration-Lynch- Commit- tee applications almost done. In- terviews early8th week. AAC-Mondlick- nothing. Campus life- Roache· Spt:ing Fest schedule given. Dining ser- vices issue. Student Forum not to[d about extra bills for Spring Fest. M ulticultu ra.l A [fairs-Bennett- nothing. Trustees-Zand-man- Congrats to election winners. Class officer elec- tions Friday May 21st. Seniors-Chaplin- Duck sales good. May 17-wine and cheese. May 18-Senior dinner: 5-6 pm hors d' oveurs,. 6-7 pm dinner at Upper Class, 8-10 pm Nott. Juniors~Caruso- 8th weekraising money for tornado victims. Senior initiation llop at end· of year. Sophomores-Aloan.., nothing. Freshmen-Markowski- nothing. OLD BUSINESS I. Programming-Zandman- Changes to constitution for con- cert committee, Motion to approve changes to constitution- Lynch Second- Chaplin In favor-12. Opposed- 0. Abstain- 1 . ·· Motion passed. 2. Tenure Findings-AI()an- Other schools. have similar tenure process to Union. DISCUSSION ABOUT TENURE PROCESS. Caruso: Look. into advancing im- portance of service for tenure rat- ing. Zandman: Design committee to review changes in constitution. Barry: Edu<:ate students on im- portance Df raHng system for pro- fessor evaluations. Zandman: With higher impor- tance on service, the tenure scale with heighten. NEWBUSrNESS 1. Theater Issue-Lemle- DIS- CUSSION ABOUT AN INAPPRO- PRIATE LETTER SENT TO A UNION STUDENT. COM- MITIEE REJ>ORTS SAC-Chaplin- nothing. Forum Consultants-Aloan- noth~ in g. Meeting was Adjourned promptly st- 8:25PM. Lecture Informs Campus of Neglect to Human Rights by Gina Campanella Staff Writer At this point, almost every stu- dent kn()WS about the Amnesty In- temational campaign to close the School ()[the Americas. However, for those who wished to know more before committing to the cause, there was an informational session in Old Chapel. The session was casual and re- freshmellts were served. After a brief introduction at 7 PM by a Union College student, the guest speaker John Amidon, began t() talk ab()ut his efforts and experi- ences with the School of the Ameri- cas. Amid()n thanked Amnesty Inter- national for inviting him to speak, and also mentioned two other com- mon organizations that have been very helpful in informing people about tile school. These organiza- tions included The Interfaith Alli- ance and the Campus Action group. Amidon explained to the crowd that the School of the Americas was originally intended to train Latin American generals in the pe- riod of the Cold War. However, now tha.t there is clearly no longer a Cold War threat, the school is better off closed. Two informational videos were shown about the School of the Americas. The first video was titled The /n;ider Speaks Out, and vvas focused on the testimony of retired US army Major Joseph Blair. Blair served as a logistics instructor at the School of the Americas andre- ferred to it as a \Cold war dino- saur.\ According to Amidon, the school is completely run by the US army and it was often blatantly ig- nored that many of its students were frequent human rights offend- ers. Many murders and murderers, for example the case concerning the Jesuit priests, can be traced !.lack to the school and its students. Blair also c latms that the manuals give detailed instruction in torture and exploitation. Schoo 1 of the Americas. In addi- tion to all of the controversy sur- rounding the school's curriculum and students, Blair brought up a basic money issue. Why should the US taxpayer fund a school that is populated en- tirely by Latin American students and professors? This issue may seem minor in light of all the oth- ers, however, it is probab 1y the most effective argument one can the best places to go to launder mega! money, tlsually drug money. Blair ended his testimony by pointing out the way that the gov- ernment handles protesters of the School ofthet\mericas. Most pro- testers who are arrested serve a six- month term ill prison. Howeve_r, none of the students are ever brought up on charges for their human rights abuses. Amidon etllphasized the video In addition, although the school claims that a human rights course is required, there is no hu- man rights course in the course register. All that is offered is one four- hour class on human rights, as required by the Geneva Convention .. This lack of value for hu- Amnesty International hosted speaker, John Amidon takes a breather during the question session of his lecture. man rights issues has been blamed for the many murders and mass murders of Latin Ameri- can Indians. A central issue brought up in the information session was the idea that the US taxpayer funds the use from a governmental point of view. In addition to this monetary con- cern, Blair also stressed that it is common knowle.dge that the School of the Americas is one of ~y stating that the school has no. place in the United States and that it just adds insult to injury that it survives at ta::xpayers' expense. He then went on to ·talk about some of the legislation floating around Congress about the school. There is currently a bill in Con- gress, HR732, that has already gained over 120 cosponsors. In order to rescue the bill ftom its cur- rent position, it is locked up ill com- mittee; it must gain 180 cosponsors. The Senate has a similar bill, SENATE873, which has 12 cospon- sors. Senator Schumer, who had promised to cosponsor the bill, kept his promise to his constitu- ents. Amidon ended his session by giving a few examples of how the press tends to shift events in the favor ofthe government. On May I, 1999 roughly 17,000 people rallied at the .Pentagon to show their support for the c:losure ofthe School of the Americas. This event barely got covered, and those papers that did run stories only accounted for 300 of the pro- testers present. Many are divided over the School of the Americas, however, it is a crucial issue that goes far beyond the concerns of the aver- age USta~payer. However, it is of- ten approaclted from this view- point in order to interest people anci show them how the sch()ol effects them. It is hoped that if enough Ameri ... cans decide they do not want their tax. dollars ftmding such an insti- tution, the movement to ()lose the school will eventually be success- ful. F1 - - M:ll! AAl AFI AM( BI< BI< BI< BI< CEl CHI CHI CS< EEl EEl EG: EG: FRl GEl GR HS' HS' HS' HS IM JP LA ME MT MT PH PH PH PS PS PS RU so so SP MJ M At\ CH EG FF Pl' Pr sc SE M: Al AC ru ru Bl BJ CI CI C:t E< E< E< E< Gl Gl M: Pl Sl Sl Sl w. M c c E M M M s T A B B c c c c c c c c E E E ( ( I- } r I- !- } J:

FinalExatnSchedule ([.crnc:or!ti.e:nsis • May 20, 1999 • Page 7 Final Exam Schedule Spring 1999 · MJNDAY, JUNE AAH*013*\01 AFR*025*\01 AMU*024*01 810*012*\02 BI0*025*(}1 BI0*128*\01 BI0*147*01 CER*161*01 CHM*152*01 CHN*012*01 CSC*037*01 EER*048*01 EER*lOO*Ol EGL*022*01 EGL*040*01 7, 1999 - 8:30-10:30 11M Intro to .Art History - 3 Black Religion Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven Cells f< Organisms w/Lab Molecula-r Bio of Cell w/Lab Aquatic Biology w/Lab IllllllUPO lO('fY W /Lab Hig!:lwy En_gg/Route Survey w/Lab PhysicaL Chemistry 2 w/Lab Basic Chinese 3 Structured Programming Semiconductor Devices & Circts E1ectricill 'Engineering History Maj,or American Authors 1 World of the Bible FRN*011*01 Basic French 2 GEO* 0;16*0 1 Oceanography w/Lab GRK*Ol2*01 Gre€k Readiflg HST*058*01 The Holocaust HST*076*01 BLa-ck Religion HST*083*01 ·Mystics, Magic & ~Witchcraft HST*l21*01 Amer Consti.tutional/Legal Hist IMP*013*01 Iflt Math/Physics 3 w/Lab JPN*132*01 Advanced Interm Japanese III LAT*012*01 Latin Reading MER*050*01 Heat Transfer Anal/Desgn w/Lab MTH*031*01 Lin_ear Algebra & Diff Equation MTH*053*01 VisualizLng tbe 4th Dimension PHY*017\*01 Gen:eral Physics 1 w/Lab PHY*045\*01 The Solar System PHY*045*D2 The Solar System PSC*060\*01 Policy Naking & Amer Society PSY*010*01 Intra to Psychology PSY*038*01 Deve~oprnental Psychology RUS*\012*Dl Basic Russian 3 SOC*OlO*Ol Intr.o to Sociology SOC*\l38*01 Africa:Sbcial & Demographic SPN*l21*02 Inte.:rme<lia.te Spanish 2 MJNDI\Y, JUNE 7 r 199.~ - 11: 30 AM. - l: 30 EM AAH*045*01 ANT*OlS*Ol CHM*016*01 EGL*066*01 FRN*121 *01 PHY*Ol5*01 PHY*015*02 PSC*142*01 PSY*030*01 PSY*045*01 SOC*OlO·kQ2 SPN*l20*01 MJNDAY I JUNE AAH*017*01 ACC*010*01 ANT*050*01 ANT*080*01 BIO*Oll*Ol BI0*051*01 CER-012-03 CER*022*0~ CER*l53*01 EC0*041*01 ECO*l25*01 ECO*l51*01 EGL*055*01 GE0*050*01 GMI*151*51 MLT*029*01 PHL*035*01 PSC*012*01 Contemporary Art & Architec Intro to Archaeology Inorqan:ic Chemistry 1 w/Lab Victorian Detective Fiction Intermediate F~ench 2 Physics/Life Sciences 1 w/Lab Physics/Life Sciences 1 w/Lab Urban Political Problems Personali.ty History & Systems in Psych Intro to .Sociology Intenuediate Spanish 1 7', 1999- 2:30-4:30 2:1 Pilgrimage 1:St.James-Santiago Survey o.f Accounting Women in C.ross-Cultural Persp North American Indians Cont.empo:rary Bi.ology w/Lab Ecology~(Lab ' Comp Aided Graph & Draft CE Materials w/Lab Wastewater 1reatment w/Lab Mioroeconomic Aflalysis E£:fieient Mgmt of Technology Monetary Economics Shak:espe.are to 1600 P€trology w /Lab Monetary Economic.s P ilgrimaqe 1: St. James-Santiago Philo.sopny in America Intro International Politics PSC*066~01 Presidential Politics PSY*025*01 E.xperiroental Psych w/Lab SOC*010*03 Intro to Sociology SOC*022* 01 S:Ocial P·roblems & Policy SOC*l32*01 Public Kealth:Cultura~ Perspec WST*090*01 Women in Cross-Cultural Persp MJNDAY, JUNE 1 1 1999 - 4:45 - 6:45 PM CSC*l44*\51 F'unctiortal Programming CSC*236*51 Computer ~etwork Protocols EER*236*51 Computer ~etwork Protocols MER*205* 51 Metallucg:y Principles MTH*015*01 Calculus 3 MTH*015*02 Calculus 3 SPN*Oll*02 Basic Spanish 2 . TIJESDAY I JUNE 8 I 1999 - 8:30 - 10: 30 1\M AAH*021*01 rae Modern City BIO*l30*01 An~al Physiology ~/Lab BIO*l40*01 Molecular Genetics w/Lab CER*l44*01 Geotechnical Engg ~/Lab CHM*040*01 Quantitative Chemistry w/Lab CHM*l18*01 Inorganic Chemistry 2 w/Lab CHN*l20*01 Interm€diate Chinese 1 CLS*025*01 \History of Rome CLS*025*02 History of Rome CLS*043*01 Classical Mytboloqy • CSC*040*01 ·Computer Organization EER*OSO*Ol Analoq Conmunications w/Lal:> ESC*023*01 Mech 3 :Strength of Mat w/Lab ESC*023*02 Mech 3:Streflgth of Mat w GER*l21*01 Internediate Gennan 2 GER*l22*01 Advanced German HST*014*01 History of US Since Civil War HST*014*02 Histor-y of lJS Since Civil War HST*014*03 History of US Since.civil War HST*036*01· History of Europe 2 HST*036*02 History of Europe 2 HST*O:SO*Ol Western Imperialism HST*l68*01 History of Modern India PHY*042*01 Ideas of Modern Physics PSY*020*01 Statistical Methods/Psychology Eyeman, C. Corley, s. McMullen, D. Crawford, A.W. Salvo, J.L. Tobiessen, P. Lauzon, R. Wolfe, F .A. Hayes, D. Feng, J.P. Green, E. A. Chang, Y. .Spinell;L, J. .Slade, L. Heinegg, P. Batson, c. Brandriss, M.E. Mace, S. Berk, S. Corley, S. Sargent, S. Henry, S. Barbanel/Dunn Khan, Y. Scullion, J. ·s Wilk, R. Zulli, L. Cervone, D.P. Koopman, R. Sunnan, R. Marr 1 J. Underwood, J. Greenberg, S . Stanhope, L. Jordan, B. Cotter, D. Benefo, K.D. Camacho-Platero, L. Eyeman, C. Cesarski, E. Sca:i,fe, c. Park, H. Van Deventer, S. DeBattista, R. Khosropour, N. Gilman, T. Spring, D. Donaldson, G. Benefo, K.D. Mosquera, D. Matthew/Martinez Lippitt, Jeanette Grnelch, s. Bishop, C. Willing, R. Brown, G. Gremillion, P. Ghaly, A. Snow, P. Reynolds, B. Schmidt, S.S. Rafferty, M. Heinegg, P. Hollocher, K. Rafferty, M. Matthew/Martinez Ludwig, J. Lobe, T·. Brown, C. Marling, B. Grigsby, J. Relyea, L.G. Goldner, M.A. Grnelch, S. Herrunendinger,D Spinelli, J. Spinelli, J. Milillo, F. Rosenthal, K. Rosenthal, K. Machan, M. Young, M.S. Fleishman, L. Horton, J. S. Ghaly, A. Werner, T. Hagerman, M. Feng, J.P. Toher, M. Balot, R. Sorum, C. Hemmendinger, D. Hassib, E. Bunk, D. Blinn, M. Harnm-Ehsani, K Hamrn-Ehseni, K Feffer, A. Henry, S. Miller, A.T. Berk, S. Walker, M. Hansen, E. Dias, M. Schick; K. Stanhope, L. 'l'tESDlcr, Jtm a, 1999 11 :.30 AM 1: 30 IM ARTS 215 .AAH*029*01 American Art ARTS 109 ..AMU*012*01 Language of Music ARTS 313 CHN*OlO*Ol Basic Chinese 1 BAIL 106 EER*066*01 Control Systems w/Lab HUMN 019 FFN*012*01 Basic FJ;\ench 3 BAIL 102 FFN*l30*0l Modern France/France actuelle STZH 106 GER*Oll *01 Basic German 2 OLIN 110 GRK* 138*01 Greek Lyric & Elegiac Poetry BUTR 300 J!EB*\012*0l Basic Hebrew 3 OLIN 105 J!ST*028*01 KUMN 014 HST*071*01 NWSE 222 HST*1:69*0l NWSE 210 JFN*OlZ*Ol HUMN 112 hlrican-.American History 1 'Modem History of Middle East Colonialism/ Inperialism: Asia Basic Japanese 3 'Galculus 2 HUMN 115 Ml'H*012*01 SSCI 010 PHY*056*01 Interrrt Electromagnetism w/Lab OLIN 307 PSC*013*01 Intra to Political Thought HUMN 113 · PSY*010*02 Intro to Psychology COLC PSY*033*01 · Psych of Memory & Thinking ARTS 109 . SPN*Oll*Ol Basic Spanish 2 SSCI 112 SPN*012*02 Basic Spanish 3 HUMN 114 TUESDAY, ,JUNE. B I 1999 - 2: 3() - 4 : 30 EM NWSE 112 'AAH*036*0l Hist of Gardens/Landscape Arch SSCI 213 ANT*'067*01 East Asian Development ARTS 210 BI0*036*01 Invertebrate Zoology w/Lab NWSE 205 · CSC*\160*'5l Software Engineering BAIL 201 · EAS*014 *01 East Asian Devetopment/Society SSCI 014 · EC0*014*01 East Asian Development/Society NWSE 300 EC0*042*01 Macro Theory & Policy NWSE 114 EGL*019*01 Major English Authors 1 BUTR 109 ESC*018A*01 Computer Science HUMN 117 ESC*018A*02 Computer Science BAIL 312 HST*116*0l Origins of American Society BAIL 104 HST*167*01 East Asian Development/Soci€ty OLIN 211 PHL*073*01 Environmental Ethics BAIL 207 PSC*019*01 East Asian Development/Society SSCI 105 PSY*024*01 Social Psychology HUMN 116 PSY*031*01 Abnormal Psychology PSY*046*01 Intro to Psychobiology ARTS 215 SOC*024*01 Social Psychology SSCI 110 SOC*051*01 Race, Class&~nder in America OLIN 204 STA*l11*01 Intro Mathematical Statistics HUMN 110 WS'T*083*01 Race, Clas.s&Gender in America HUMN 117. TUESDAY, Jt:R 8 I 1999 - 4: 45 - 6: 45 EM NWSE 114 CER*012*0l Comp Aided Graph & Draft w/Lab NWSE 116 CSC*OlO*Ol Computers & Computing OLIN 211 CSC*010*02 Computers & Computing BAIL 312 CSC*010*03 Computers & Computing BAIL 300 CSC*075*51 Computer Logic & Math SSCI l03 CSC*129*51 Neural Networks HUMN ° 19 CSC*152*51 CSC*231*51 ARTS 215 ,f:ER*l29~51 Microprocessors Computer Language Translators Neural Networks w/Lab BAIL 106 EER*152*51 Microprocessors SSCI 10 3 GMI*262*51 Intnl Bus & Competitive Theory SSCI OlO MER*201*51 Transport Phenomena HUMN ° 19 MER*260*51 Nuclear Engineering & Technlgy HUMN 0l 4 STA*202*51 Statistical Methods BUTR 10 6 TUESDAY, .:n,m 8, 1999 - 7:00 - 9:00 l:M BUTR 300 BUTR 109 CER*012*02 Comp Aided Graph & Draft w/Lab SSCI 014 CER*131*51 Structural Steel Design w/Lab OLIN 106 EER*226*51 Optimal Control Systems BAIL 100 MER*216*51 ~inite Element Methods in Engg HUMN 117 m:IJNESDAY1 .JtNi: 9, 1999 - 8:30 - 10:30 AM OLIN 332 BT0*012*0l Cells & Organisms w/Lab BAIL 100 BIO*l60*01 Histology & Organology w/Lab ARTS 215 CER*160*0l Transportation Engg w/Lab HUMN 11 o CLS*031 *01 Survey of Ancient Epic ARTS 109 EGL*075*01 Late 19th Century Amer- Lit BAIL 201 GE0*012k0l Environmental Geology w/Lab OLIN 307 GER*012*01 Basic Gennan 3 HIJMN 115 HST*044 *01 The Second World War Era BAIL 207 JPN*l22*01 Intennediate Japanese 3 SSCI 104 [V!ER*026*01 Thermodynamics SSCI 103 MER*045*01 Dynamics & Kinematics w/Lab MTH*OllC*Ol calculus with Precalc 3 NWSE 116 MTH*017*01 calculus 4:Integral Vector NWSE 114 MTH*099*01 Intro:Logic & Set Theory NWSE 114 MTH*130*01 Complex ~alysis NWSE 222 MTH*132*01 Abstract Algebra 1 BAIL 207 PHY*019*01 General Physics 3 w/Lab BAIL 207. POR*010*01 Basic Portuguese 1 HUMN 114 .. PSY*034 *01 Psychology of Language Young, M.S. McMullen, D. Feng, J.P. Fatic, V. \Leamon A. Batson, C. Warde/Kellent;er Balot, R. Almog, M. Miller, A. T. Berk, S. Dias, M. Khan, Y. Hart, J.E. Newman, J. Marso, L.J. DeBono, K. Greenberg, S. Izurieta, I. Witkins, M. Matthew, L. Reynolds, B. Boyer, B. AJmstead, L. Reynolds, B. Reynolds, B. Rafferty, M. Hilles, C. Hannay, D. Hannay, D. Wells, R. Reynolds., B. Vitek, W. Reynolds, B. Marling, B. VanSlyck, M. Weisse, C. Marling, B. Goldner, M.A. Schmee, J. Goldner, M.A. Spangler, C.H. Almstead, L. Hedrick, J.N. Glynn, M. Traver, C. Rudko, M. Gajjar, J. Green, E. A. Rudko, M. Gajjar, J. Chudzik, M. Shanebrook, R. Wicks, r. Oppenlander, J Spangler, C.H. Griggs, F. Fatic, V. Keat, W. D. Danowski, B. Smith, G. Wolfe, F.A. Mace, S. MacCbnalp., B. Rodbell, D. Warde/Kelienter Hansen, E. Wojnovich, M. Shanebrook, J. Bucine 11, R. Taylor, A. Frame, M. Cervone, D.P. Zulli, L. Niefield, S. Newman, J. Villela, S. DAndrea, T . Garcia, lrJ. • SPN*012*01 Basic Spani.sh 3 ARTS 210 SPN*l21*01 Intermediate Spanish2 HUMN 014• Witkins,M HUMNll6 BAIL 312 1'1ED'$SOAY, .JUNE 9, 1999- 11:30 AM- 1:30 EM BUTR 300 CER*151*01 Hydraulics w/Lab Jewell 1 T. STZH 106 EC0*012*01 Introduction to Ec.onomics Tornljanovich, M. OLIN 204 EC0*012*02 Introduction to Economics Tomljanovich, M. SSCI 213 GE0*053*01 Structural Geology w/Lab Garver, J. I. HUMN 115 MTH*060*0l Mathematical Political Scien.ce Taylor 1 A. HUMN 117 MI'H*060*02 Mathematical Political Science Zirrmer:mann, K. ARTS 215 MI'H*135*0'1 Number Theory Johnson, B. OLIN 106 PSC*023*01 Mathematics & Politics Taylor, A. NWSE 116 PSC*023*02 Mathematics & Politics Zirrme:r::.mann, K. HUMN 019 WEDNESDAY 1 Jt3NE 9, 1999 - 2: 30 - 4: 30 1!-S HUMN 019 CHM*Ol2*01 Fund Chemistry 2 w/Lab HUMN 119 CHM*Ol2*02 Fl.lnd Chemistry 2 w/Lab HUMN 119: PHY*018*01 General Physics 2 w/Lab SSCI 112 PHY*018*02 General Physics 2 w/Lab HUMN 114 PHY*l21 *01 Observational Astronany SSCI 103' Martinez, L.J. Hagerroan 1 M. Reich, G. DeBattista, N. Koopnann, R. ARTS 215 ARTS 313 OLIN 105 NWSE 210 OLIN 211 HUMN 014 HUMN 115 HUMN 113 SSCI 105 SSCI 103 SSCI 104 SSCI 110 HUMN 213 BAIL 100 NWSE 303 ARTS 109 BAIL 312 BAIL 300 HUMN 112 EArL 102 ARTS 215 SSCI 112 BAIL 106 OLIN 106 SSCI 112 ssci. 112 SSCI 103 HUMN 114 HUMN 019 HUMN 019 SSCI 110 SSCI 112 HUMN 112 SSCI 112 BAIL 300 BAIL 312 BAIL 104 BAJL, BAIL BAIL BAIL 312 201 100 201 BUTR 106 OLIN 306 OLIN 307 OLIN 107 NWSE 116 BAIL 104 OLIN 106 STZH 10:: BAIL 104 OLIN 106 HUMN 019 NWSE 222 NWSE 205 OLIN )C7 BlJTR 106 BlJTR 300 NWSE 116 NWSE 205 SSCI 014 BA.IL 207 S'rZH 106 HUMN 110 SSCI 110 OLIN 307 HUMN 115 SSCI 104 HUMN 213 NWSE 222 NWSE 205 BA.IL 100 OLIN 107 BAIL 102 BAIL 106 BAIL 104 NWSE 116 HUMN 117 BAIL 300 HUMN 014 OLIN 307 OLIN 115 OLIN 115 OLIN 332 BAIL 100 BAIL 207 HUMN 014 BAIL 100 BAIL 207 OLIN 115 OLIN 115 NWSE 116 NWSE 114 OLIN 301 SSCI 104' OLIN llS I ARTS 10~ BAit. 106 NWSE 114 BAIL 300 Visit the Concordy website at: http://concordy. union.edu

. Page 8 • May 2:, 1999 · Qlonrnri'kiensifli OP/ED ·& .. &cfilor1. --- Union's Money Pit Memoirs of the Cabaret In March I auditione<d for the Money plays such a vital role in everyone's life. Ever si11ce the de- sch1>ol play Cabaret. (J()illg into dine ofthe barter system, cultures have depended on ceins flnd bills to auditions I was very ex:cite<l and run their governments. In our society, humans rely on money for food, · optimistic. Walking o11tl was very entertainment, transportation, housing, etc. Ifone stops to think, every- unimpress.ed and disappoillted. thing costs something to someone. Some individtJa! even pays for the · Disappointed that 1he director water you.get from a drinking fountain. · · would recruit students from· oth- Unexpectadly, three other student- prGJduced projects aro se which capttued a largepercent~ge ofup- per-.levet theatre talent we had as- surn~d would be audit[oning for CABARET. So we cast from our neighboring universities and the community, expanding the cast enoFmotJsly and stretching ourre- souvces to provide more (),pportu- nitiesf()r Union student~. It should be lo<lked at as an opport11nity for Un i\>11 students to expand their h()rizons. Why are yott so threat- ened :by others with ta:lent? Other than 011e young wom a11 in the Kit Kat Klub, I had never see-n these ,people before auditions. Unfortunately, at Union it seems that money is not respected. More- · ers schools to be in a-Union pro- over, it is taken for granted. Students thoughtlessly use their validines . duction. Upon disco-veving that on food, cards, beenie-babies or sodas. What if the card runs out? . these students were fr<>m other Simply go t1> Dining Services and check the box 'Bill to Student Ac- schools I tried to c<Jntac.t Bill count.' Finlay, the head of thetlleater de- Students are not the only ones who waste at this schooL Professors partment, seeking :infGrrnation are guilty of this crime as well. Ever had a class with more handouts than about why outside stude:nts would pages in the course textbook? Even though students ,often forget, class . be allowed to audition_ Never hav· time costs money. Regardless of this fact, some professors have no ing any of my ph()ne cal'ls retllrned problems canceling class without a make-up session. Just another money- I wrote an email lo t~e director, waster on the campus. Diane Sadek expressing my d isap- The disrespect for money does not stop there. Anyone who walks · pointment and asking ~hy other through the school can see ridiculous amounts of cash slipping down students from other scllools would the drain. For instance, when water hits the grass in the hot sun, most of be cast. In response slle\Wn>te this. Casting was done by rn yself and tbe musical director, a New York City voice coach and n1u:;ical di- rector or. more than 20 ye.ars expe- the moisture evaporates. However, Union seems to think thatmid:..after- noon i:. the perfect time to use sprinklers in full force. The Olin Center seems to be one big money pit as well. The con- spiracy with the telescope when the building was openedsc~:eams poor engineering and wasted funds. It also seems as though the high-tech- nology center is slowly sinking. In the past, there have been problems with water leaking into the elevators and ever since the start of spring term, workmen have been digging trenches by the back door of the building. One can only wonder as to the purpose of this strange but expensive task. The Schaffer Library is not innocent of this horrible crime. Fines are tremendous compared to other libraries, especially if you have a book that someone else wants. The copy card is anotherrip-off: although it is convenient. It is noted that after two years of use. the card still charges eight cents a copy. That does not seem to be an enormous deal, like the propaganda suggests·: Eating on campus is probably the biggest money-waster e\er. It costs $7.5() to eat dinner in Upperclass and West Dining halls. Tllis is a hefty price considering that students eat here every night. If all the meal swipes are not used, the money does not roll over, but rather is spent on the purchase of more food to throw away after the ritualist! c onslaught called dinner. If Dutch is the preferred dinning atmosphere, bring your blindfolds because you do not want to see how much you are being charged. One piece of advice; stay away from anything weighed. Salad, frozen yogurt, and chicken bites all cost a fortune. It seems that an effort could be made in order to stop the enormous waste of money that happens at Union. Unfortunately, it rnight cost too much money for the school to make that type ofposition available. JBZ \ You arrogant I itt le s** t. rie11ce. Decisions were m:ade about I am a guest artist at this school vvllo W()uld read what ba.sed upo11 with more experience behin<i me tile monolgue and sing:i11tg in gen- than you' II ever imagjn e. L am an ,erals. If a person was no.t read for Equity actor and a colllservatory- af()le, it was because I ha.d already trained director with U years pro- made a casting dete rrn in ation fessional experiencein~ddition to based ,upon their general audition. years ofuniversity-le'velteaching. I h.aveplenty of experience to de- How DARE you write t()Ine in such term_ine that from a two m::inute gen- tone, without even bothering1o get eral, and so does Kathleen. By the your facts straight! T;() p11esume way,.i:fyour handwriti11g.lladbeen that the show choice did not re- at all legible, you wou 'k~ have re- flect Union's ability shows how ce:ived detailed notice about this desperately little you 1.1ndoerstand viaemail. The stage mall age!· and 1 about the way Professor Finlay, had been keeping con:>tant con- Professor Steckler .a11d myself tact wHhthe auditionees and those catne to this show to begin with. eventually cast to let tit em know ·They're .Playing Our So-ng has wh~ all of this was happ~ning the · eight roles. Fantastilc.s h:as two. way it was. Ittook twalWeeks be- You're a Good Man Char Be Brown fore Spencer Christie firtally let us has six. I'd rather not direc1than lmow the correct spell i11g of your pass off any one of those shows last name so we could email you as legitmate musiealtheatre and an · about rehearsals. appropriate educatiorul experience As for the sides, I was the one for Union students. I k11ow the wllochoseandxeroxedthem so()f musical theatre le:ticon, Mr. COURSEiknewboththeS:ally/Ciiff Schrum, as does the rest of.the fac- scenes. that were being tLsed. I ha<i ulty. just decided(improvisati()nally)t<l This show was NOr precast. use the other Cliff/Sa11)' scene at the end of the night. You are arrogant and .ignorant, Mr. Schrum, and for a young man such as yourself to try t() SUM- MON a guest artist with a ctJrt \call me\ after your name on the cast 'list, rather than contacting me, as you should have, right after the list was posted If you had any issue regarding y-our casting, inaicates a blatant disrespect for me, for the show·, and for the process of the- atre. You have a lot ·to learn, and we have a wonderful cast and much work to do. It is the disgl!stingly .smug and entitled attitudes from college students such as yourself which contribute to the image of Union students as arrogant, spoiled and ineffectual. You have no business in the theatre. This work is a privledge, not a right. I am sorry you did n1>t write or call two weeks ago when the cast list was posted; I could have aaddressed your concerns con- structively. Now, however, you have burned that bridge. I had &!- ready replaced you. Sincerely, Diane M. Sadak Assistant Professor of Acting and Voice, Towson University Guest Artist, Union College Director and Choreographer, CABARET Union College Class of 1985\ Sincerely, ·Scott Schrum '·01 Editor's Note: The following is the original letter sent by Scott Schrum to Diane Sadek The letter was submitted ny Kimberly Rohback and behalfof Diane Sadek. The Editor, s did not change any spelling in either letter, excpet for profanities. Continued on page 9 Letter Policy & Disclaimer Look into Tradition at Union Letters to the Editor should be addressed to the OP/ED page and must be received by 5 PM the Monday before publication. Letters must be less tha 500 words and should pertain to an issue tha · concerns the Union College community. Final decisions concerning printing and/or editing submission belong to the Editorial Board. Alll~tters must be signed and saved on a high density disk, although the author's name need not appear in the newspaper~ if the writer so specifies. Letters do no necessaJ1.ly reflect the opinion ofthe Editorial Board. Editorials reflect the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board, and of no one member in particular. · Any opinion columns or cartoons reflect the opinions of the writers or artists, and not necessarily the opinions of the Editorial Board. Advertisements appearing in Concordiensis do no necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Boa:rd .. Concordiensis is printed by Worl4 Media, 11 04 Central Avenue, Albany, NY, 12205. As a faculty member :and alumna, I read The Concordiertsis with in- terest each week. lntl1e pa:st two . years~ there have beenalargenum- ber of articles and editorials that include some .sort ()f complaint about change vs. tradition.., includ- ing the May 13 editorial \'file Way We Were ... On Pare:nts' Week- errds.'; Before I continue.., let me assure you that I think it is,entirely appro· priate for students to challenge . both institutional\\ irn posed changes and outdated traditions. (I am especially im ]Jressed when students get passioflate about any topic that is n()t reLat-ed to issues of access to fo1>d or beer,} Parents' Weekend in the mid· 1980s coincided with Mother's Day weekend, just a=; it did this year. Although there was no Steinmetz Sympos !ll m, students managed to amuse il1eir families. When I came hack to Union as a faculty member in 1()92, Parents' Weekend was in the .f~U but did not coincide with Home<:()tnillg Week- end. The transitiontdajoillt Home- coming/Parents' Weekend took placewaybackin 19~5(gi'Veortake a ye~r). This \long-st~nding\ tra- dition was broken this year. If the editM(s) had made a q11ick perusal of C oncordy issues fr()m years p:ast (indeed. not so many years p:ast), they would havedisc·overed this on their own and could have craftecl a more informed editorial. The editor(s) may, in fact, be able to articulate an umber of valid rea- sons why Parents' We-ekend might be better placed in the fall than in .the spring, but the \cllange is g:()od, tradition is better -we liked the way we were\ argume11t doesn't hold up to scmtlny. Speaking of the Steinmetz Sym- posium, it was first h:eld in 1991. Most students and faculty would agree with me that thds: is the sort ·Of \new\ tradition we should cont inue.A few more e:xamples <if just hew \traditional~' some of U11ion 's traditions are: Back in the dark ag;;es, when I was a student, there was no such thing as a \Nott run''. Really. I would have heard abo11tit. This is 11ota200•year-old tradition. Tile academic week calendar changes relatively fre<Jt~ently. The present \new\ schedule, imple- menting a \common hour\ on Mon. through Thurs., is similar to a schedule under which the Col- lege operated as recently as the early 1990s. The Reamer Campus Center, which many students insist on call- ing the College Center(in the name of tradition); was first called the College Center when the building, previously named Carnegie Hall, was renovated in the mid-l980s. The Idol was moved at least once when I was a stude11t and has been moved at least once since I've been a faculty member at Union. Some changes are good, some traditions are valuable, and some battles are worth fighting. I chal- lenge students who are demand- ing either change 1>r a return to tra- dition to research their topic. A well-infonned person is more likely to generate the sort of campus- wide discussion that !elias to the desired result than someone who is equally passionate, but uni- formed. Sincerely, Mary Carroll, 'S6 Chemistry Department

OP /ED QJ:oucndrieusis ·May 20, 199~ · Page 9 1 ~: - > - ._,_: t~ JAtJ.,,Q. i£Q;Juitp.,_;;pm:;w;::&;:w~,,:;;;( ·--:-&\d)$ ... n!J-<'~-\..-.;·- h.)i.f;;:t_.,~c:;--·;.:.:?:::<\.?ff;:_ -~::::..;•;;:-7,t:;:;.,·;,:,:.-·-.:; f:;.,:;_ ·.::;:,~·r.~ ·::>,~ ------------• · Q ~nLons ~ Ochtorials \ < The Dangers of Smoking by MichaelS. McGuire Copy Editor he can develop cancers of the not a violent pefson, and have mouth, t)lroatandlungs, in addition never been in a physical altercation to emphysema and asthma. He in my life, but I can honestly say knows be might become addicted that there would be no containing My mom was pregnant with my and be forced to endure a great the fury that I would Jielease upon sister when m)( grandmother, her deal of physical, emotional and , someone who attempted to make mother,diedofc!lncer. She never monetary hardship to quit. He mesmoke. got to meet my sister. I have few krnows aH these things. And still I cannot understand the logic memoriesofher,sincelwasonly he had be.e;n smoking behind smoking. I do not seven years old when she died,. and approximately eigh.t cigarettes a understand why it is legaL It is the can't even brii.!lg an ac~urate night a few times a week. Why? ·only legal substance that, when picture of her 1to mind. , 'J · . · A d used exactly as is Everyone says that she C:anno f Unuerstan inten<led, can still was the nicest person, kiJ!l you. Alcohol but I would rather have the logz\c b· ·e\'·z·nd s·m· · ok· z\n· g· does not do this. had the opp()Ptunity to . . .· . . . . . . . . . .· n . . . . . . . . When taken in makethejudgmC!ntmyse1f ./· ,1 ·. . _J d h. . moderation, no byknowingher better. ·. uo not unuerstan . w y lf hann will come to Just a few sbCJrt weeks . . the drinker. But the ago my mom':s CGUSin, is leg· aL It is the only leg·al smoker can Carol, was dr:agnosed · .· · . develop a host of with LungCancer. This is. . . . ·b . t . fh . / h J illnesses and a person that clid not su s a nee .· a ' w en use maladies from just smokeinmylifetime,orif · / • • ,.}' d one <:igarette per she did, it was b~fore I exact y as lS zntenu:e ' can day. This leads to was old enough to another ·point. reme~ber. She hat~s S fi JJ kif[ YOU \ Tobctcco is the only smokmg som:uclHhat m . · · • legal substance order to keep it away that can become from her children, she addictiv·e when makes herhusbatJd smoke outside. I can only hope that when he taken as designed, as well. It is She ran ever)' day, and often comes tovisitmethisweekendhe impossible to smoke just one participates in the New York City will read this artide and reassess cigarette a day. You may start that Marathon. She is one of the hisdec.ision.Thereisnoexcusefor way,buteventuallyitwillescalate. healthiestpeople lhavemetinmy anyone. smoking in this day and Thatiswhythetobaccocompanies life. age. T'h e remits · are we II target teenagers. The earlier you My friends know that I have no docume11ted.l remember when my start the more cigarettes you can tolerance for smoking. They know high scbool Ec(}nomics teacher smoke before they kill you. I will nothesitatete ripthecigarette toldmellowhe decided itwastime Nothing can bring back the out oftheirtnoutb ifl ever were to to quit smoking. grandmotherthati n<Jverreally had see them doing; it. 1 can't imagine He said he was in the hospital a chance to know, and nothing can anything that could be dGne with and in the bed next to him was a save my cousin from the disease less intelligencethan smoking. Just man with throatc~ncer who hadto that grows within her lungs, but ask myroomrnate.ifi am willing to have a. tracheotomy. For those who there is still time to'help my friend waitwithhimQu1side our dorm or don't know, that is when they cut and the millions of other young West while he fin.ishes his cigarette. a hole in your throat and make you peop.le that are both smokers and A good fri.end of mine was the breatb.e through a tube that sticks nonsmokers alike. You cannot quit valedictorian of our graduating out ofyour neck. It is a surgical after twenty years. My cousin is high school cl:ass of 1998. There treatmentforthroat cancer. proof of that. Twenty years after are few peop·le= .in this world that I My teacher,. Mr. Mangin, looked she quitthecancenleveloped. You have more respoect for in this world. over at him one day and saw tl1at can't stop when ym are thirty. It is A few weeks llgo I went home for he had placed a cigarette in that too late then. Better to never start. the weekend, and we met for tube and was sm(lking through it. Tobacco products should be dinner. Neve .. was I more surprised That was when he·decided that this banned. They serve no usefu I pur- than when he itold me that he had was not the way lte was going to pose. Wllat is the worst thing that recently beg11n to smoke when end u.p~ could happen if no one smoked? drinking. The most repulsive type of I'm sure it wouldbea tragedy if we This is an intelligent person. He smoker is the one that tries to all lived longer, were not subjected knows precisely what can happen convince others to smoke, even to secondhand smoke, and paid to someone whw smokes. He knows when it is made clear to them that lower insurance fees. I can't imag- that his may tum black, and they have no desire to do so. I am ine how we would :go on. . Problems with the Cabaret ... continued from pageS I have ne'l'er been treated with so little .respect at any audition through all ti:Jeyears of my theater work. I am n(Dtjust speaking from an actors pointofview, but'ifyou bothered to i<lok at my audition form you could see that I have also directed ahd s.tacge managed. First off, if you feel you need to ask ac- . tors from otfuer schools because Union does11' t have enough talent t:llen you simply don't do that show. Any 110-vice knows that A musical such as their playing our song is small alld requires only two leads and a chorus of three. It was also obvi()us the show was precast which is typicaHnmostshows and i don't mind SD much but you at least should read through each person once before you go back to others fiv~ or six tiJnes to see if there is any other talent. At least· two people I know never .even read and that is unfair to them and dis- . respects them The only other thing that disturbs me is \that I was the last person to read, my first time, and I am handed a scene you are not even fami.J iar with and has abs<Jlutley no levels so I am pawned off as someone who can't act. Hopefully yoa can tell now that I have no desire to put my time into a shovv with non union students and inex.perienced director as your- self. -Scott Schrum This was a l'eply to Diane's wee!cs of e-mails inviting Scott to attend reherasals because he was cast and did not bother to show up. -Kim Rohback A Message From Safe Space It was not your fault. It doesn't matter what y()u said or W()re. It does not matter if you we,re friends with, or dating your attacker. It was not you who acted inappropriately. You are not alone .. There a're people who are willing t() help. It's okay to feel depressed, scared and angry. Just don't give up~ Don't give your attacker the satisfaetion. Don't let him win. Safe Space knows that rape happens at this small school and that's why we are a confidential support group for victims and caring friends~ Safe Space is here to listen. Safe Space Beeper:# 1-800-283- 2255 pin: 11349 <!Ion.cnrbi.ensi s The Student Newspaper of Union College Sim:e 1877 Schenectady's Oldest Newspaper http://concordy.nnion.edu Brooke Barylick- David Brooks EDITORS-IN-CHiEF Jaime Chandler EXECUTIVE EDiTOR Elisabeth Kidder OPINIONS EDITOR Jessica Zuehlke NEWS EDITOR Brian Terlinsl<y SPORTS EDiTOR Scott Scullion FACULTY ADVISOR Kimberly R()ltback A&EEDJTOR Sloan Miller Cory Sill\en PHOTO EDITORS Erika Mancini EDiTORIAL CARTOONIST Victoria Hargreaves SCIENCE& TECHEOITOR Neil Routman WORLD NEWS EDiTOR J()n Kelson Mi-chaelS. McGui.re COPY EDITORS Da.nielle Devine Amanda Jackson ADVERTISEMENT COORDINATORS Steve Mortefolio PROMOTIONAL MANAGER PHOTOGRAPHERS: Chip Crary, Shann:.on Conaty, Jennif«Jr MacDowell, Jeremy Messier, Sloan Miller, Dave Meguerdichian, Le-ah S-Baker, Rebecca Walsh. STAFF: Matt Aronowitz, Jeffrey Ausfeld, . Steve Ayers, . Jessica Brearton, Gl11a Campanella, John Carbone, Lisa Cnboue, Heather Clements, Erin Connoly, Jim DeWann, Mary Felton, Stephen Flaherty, Peter Flynn, Heatlt Fradkoff, Matt Gendro11, Lori Green~. Sarah Harsll~ Courtney Hayden, Mil'e lger, Clarli Jones, Jon Kelson, Daniel Kelllmanovicht Jordan Lippman, Hugh Meyer.,Sioan Miller, Shaun Montllna, Stephen Nemeth, Bri:an Roache, Ste\'e Schuler, Kate Schmidt, M!lrk Shemel, Eugene Sht&ltz, Adam-Paul Smolok, Rory Stern, LeeStevens, Jon Tapper, Charles Tuthill, John Za11dmata.

Page 10 • Ma} 20, 1999 • OI.oncnr!kieu!Si!£1 ···world News •v 7 ,.:·.·.·· ... ·.·····. ;.J.··.··:···.·= .. ·.··.·.·····'··.·:·.z.···.· ·v·· --. ·.···. N·. · · --~. ·.···. · 'v.r.s···\ .. ···. - ~- ........, ','( 4 .····. . . . ·. _c::.,. w ~-- .· Israel Elects Prime Minister Ehu·d Barak by 12 Point_ Margin by Stephen Nemeth Staff Writer On Tuesday, ajubilant crowd of supporters a.nd Ehud Barak cel- ebrated the results oflsrael's elec- tion that gave him a landslide vic- tory over Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Ata victory rally ina Tel Aviv hotel,he pledged to unite a divided nation, \It is my intention t<J be everyone's Prime Minister. Whatever the differences of opinion between us, we are brothers. He stated this despite the loud singing, applause, and cheers from his Labor Party sup- porters that frequently interrupted his comments. Afterwards, Barak headed to Rabin Square to address additional supporters. It is the site where former Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, alsooftheLabor Party, was assassinated in November 1995. A half-hour later, a tearful Netanyahu conceded the election and wished Barak suc~ess. He also shocked the crowd with the announcement that he was resign- ing.from the Likud party leadership in order for him to spend more time with his wife and family. \I think the time has come to take a break to be with my family, with my wife and children and decide on my fu- ture,\ he sa.id. He also llinted that any absence of his from Israel's politics would be brief. \I still have a lot to give to this country.\ Palestinian leaders welcomed news .of Barak's victory and ex- pressed hope that the new leader- ship would revive the peace pro- cess that had stalled under Netanyahu. \I respect the outcome ofthe Israeli elections, and I con- gratulate Mr. Barak,\ a smiling Pal- est in ian Authority President Vasser Arafat told reporters. Asked if he- believed that peace talks would now move forward he simply stated, \I hope so.\ Barak has repeatedly staked out a position as a moderate who wishes to move the peace process along, a radical departure from the previous administration. Netanyahu had froze discussions with the Palestinians in December and imposed a long list ofcondi- tions that had to be met in order to restart the talks. Netanyahu also supported a crisscross pattern of Jewish settle- ments in the West Bank that would isolate Palestinian settlements and make statehood for the Palestin- ians, something he opposes, vir- tually impossibl~. Barak stated in his campaign that if he was elected he would return Israel to the commitments it made in the Wye River accords that were brokered by President Clinton last October. The deal calls on Israel to cede land in exchange for secu- rity measures. Barak also wants to contain Jewish settlements and he advocates a separation from the Palestinians. Barak's campaign also focused on Netanyahu's weak points- so- cial and economic issues - even though most voters admitted they saw no difference between the two's policies. The stic~ing point, however, according to analysts was Netanyahu's personality and whether he can be trusted. \Israeli voters have to decide if Netanyahu is a liar, and if he is a liar, is he a big liar, and if so, is that good for Israel,\ said Dan Margalit, a writer for the Ha 'aretz new spa- per. The contest took a dramatic last- minute turn after the pullouts of Center. Party candidate Y itzhak Mordechai, Israeli Arab Azmi Bishara and ultranationalist Benny Begin. Their withdrawal dashed Netanya.hu's hopes that no candi- date would win the required out- right majority to give him a new head of steam going into a second round runoff against Barak on June I. Analysts said that Netanyahu's chan~es lay in a heavy turnout am~mgst his core ultra-Orthodox Jewish supporters and hopes that ex-Ukud supporters who had backed Mordechai would throw their support behind him. Netanyahu would also like to disprove reports that voters among the 700;000 immigrants from the former Soviet Union.as well as Sephardic Jews of Middle Eastern origin- key elements in his 1996 victory - have deserted him in droves. These reports originated fr')m many immigrants' distaste of Netanyahu's alignment with the religious Shas party, wh.o currently contml the Interior Ministry that oversees immigration. Sbas and a Russian-immigrant party, Israel B' Aliya, have beeH in a tug-of-war for control of the ministry. Voters on Monday also helped determine the composition of the Knesset-The 120 seat Israeli Par- liament- from amongJl contend- ing parties. The Knesset voted in December to hold elections after it became clear that Netanyahu lacked par- liamentary support forhis handling of the peace process with the Pal- estinians. An exit poll by Israel's Channel One showed parties aligned with Barak would have 56 seats in the 120-seat parliament, just shy of a majority, while Netanyalm's allies The -school of the Americas: would have 42 seats. Centrist par- ties would claim the other 22. Some79perc~ntofthe 4.3 mil- lion eligible voters cast their bal- . lots. The paper ballots from more than 7,000 polling stations. were to be counted by hand and unofficial final results were published on Tuesday. Police said they de- tained 25 people in 180 election re- lated incidents, including sus- pected ballot fraud an<\ fisttights. Ultra-Orthodox Jews, who con- sistently back Netanyahu, clashed Monday with secular activists who were stationed in their aeighbor- hoods to monitor voting. In previous elections, some ul- tra-Orthodox Jews had been caught using dead people's identity cards in order to vote more th.an once. Security forces also sealed off the West Bank and Gaza, barring entry to Palestinians for polling day. As the results of the election trickled in, many Israelis were cau- tiously optimistic that relations with Israel's largest ally - the United States - can be mended, as well as relations with the EU. They were hopeful that the government of Israel and the Palestinians can come together for a new peace. They also expressed hope that the deep religious and social divis.ions in the country can be overcome to bring the country together. An Outdated Institution Against Communism by.Michael V. Daly Social Commentator Last Wednesday night, May 12,, Union College was treated to alec- ture advocating the closing of the School of the Americas. John Amidon, human righ-ts activist based in Albany, talked about the untold story behind the School of the Americas. The Schools of the Americas (SOA) w<~s originally 9esigned in 1946 as a means of furthering rela- tions betvieen American and Latin American military officials in an effort to prevent the spread of Communism. As Amidon pointed out, now fifty years later, with the fear ofC<Jmmunism virtually non- existent, SOA continues to train military personnel in the finer as- pects of aggressive war tactics. Located on the American Army Base Fort Benning in Georgia, the schooll1as had the dubious honor of graduating close to 60,000 Latin Americall soldiers and officers since it'.s inception. Recently, evidence gained from the Freed()m oflnformation act dis- closed that the training practices and lessons at the SOA are noth- ing shortof commando and assas- sin tactics. Also, numerous terror campaigns and ruthless killings in Latin American countries involved . a substa11tial p~rcentage of SOA graduated officers a11d military leaders. Most notable among the former students of SOA is former Panama dictator Manuel Noriega, who American soldiers later forced out ofhis home and placed incus- tody through the use of speakers placed strategically outside his mansion windows. Perhaps if we had trained our own soldiers as well as those of other countries we would not have to rely on the Top 40 to apprehend criminals. Particularly striking to Amidon, among others, besides the fact that the SOA teaches military tech- niques that are i lie gal according to the United States Constitution, is the fact that this school is entirely supported by our tax dollars. Amidon stressed that he found it appalling that the government could fund such a school that pro- duced nothing but military crimi- nals without the consent of taxpay- ers. Somehow I don't remember signing the form allowing the gov- ernment to fmancially support other military academies in this country. Yet, West Point and the Naval Academy in Annapolis continue to exist through the great contribu- tions of our tax money.. Obviously our Western, military industrial-complex minds are con- vinced that these fine institutions do so much to further the <Jharac- ter of our future soldiers and gen- erals. Coincidentally, these are the same soldiers and generals who are currently bombing Iraq and Ku- wait. But, those are missions of Democracy and therefore the use of technology designed to seek and destroy is somehow better than using people who are trained to b.e merciless killers. Perhaps the most effective state- ment made by Amidon was at the end of the evening when he ac- knowledged that there are so many causes and gmups working and struggling for change that it often seems overwhelming. It is far too easy to sit back and claim igno- rance and therefore innocence when human rights violations flash across the evening news. The struggle does not lie in suc- cessfully achieving the goals of any particular organization, but rather invo1vingyourself, eyen on a limited level, to a cause that in- terests you. Where are we, as con- scious (assumption made) mem- bers of a democratic society, to devote our time and energy. In my opinion is doesn't matter what you are passionate about; protest the inhuman treatment of squirrels by Union College, the point is to get involved. A great opportunity endowed to us by the Constitution, the Freedom of Speech, is all too often tossed aside in favor of a remote control and a bag of chips. There are close to 150 other schools in the same class as the SOA. Why choose just that one to focus attention on? Maybe because Americahas already done more than enough to infringe upon the values and cultures of other countries (remember the Native Americans?). So, we are left we the knowledge that in the closing days of this cen- tury it is virtually impossible to work against every single injustice that exists, not to mention the in- justices that are propagandized as necessary measures for the safety and security of our country. Some- how I get the feeling that if we had never meddled in the international affairs of numerous co11ntries we wouldn't have the paranoia that some country, somewhere is plot- ting against us. Concerning the School of the Americas and Mr. Amidon's admi- rable persistence to his chosen cause, I have a few minor problems. In no way do I mean to trivialize the lives of those who died in the civil wars of Latin America. How- ever, an even greater, graver injus- tice is done if we simply accept the words of those speaking out against certain situations. As mentioned, close to 60,000 people have graduated from SOA. So, in an attempt to get involved I did some research. Checking out a website Amidon referred to. (www.soaw.org) I calculated that approximately 450 past students have earned the grouping \notori- ous graduates.\ This group runs the range from drug dealers to gun- runners to terrorists and political figures; Most, if not all these graduates went through the school in the last fifteen years, furthering the case that this is and outdated Cold War training ground. Yet, this still ac- counts for only .007 5% of all the graduates. Seems likea rather small percentage considering the total number of students who have passed through the school. I will not even attempt to count the graduates of American militia schools who have gone on to earn court martials or dishonorable dis- charges. I looked and could not find any listing in any official or private information that labeled these people as \notorious gradu- ates.\ How can we judge the actions of others when we cannot even control the actions of our own? Where is the line drawn between acceptable military schooling and the lessons learned at the SOA? Amidon pointed to the Course Catalog of the SOA that detailed torture techniques, commando tac- tics, and counter~insurgent tech- niques. Are we to accept that ver- sions of this, under whatever cloud, are not taught at places such as West Point and Annapolis? This should in no way belittle the valiant efforts of those who served bravely and honQr~bly both from the SOA and other military academies. However, it must be recognized that all of these schools have a purpose: the production of men capable ofviolentacts, includ- ing murders, to better control for- eign governments and people. Wi A prei clea earn for.! W!l) stat IOVI con Ale: Gar Dar Go1 Sei Bw Cc: 'GE La ; Gc Eli Pc Jo Jo AI AI Bi ·sl De 81

World News QJ:llt1cnbien~i~ • May 20, 1999• Page 11 An Early Look at the Upcoming 2000 Presidential Elections With Texas Governor George W. Bush Leading the Republican Challenge, other Republicans Fightfor Voter Share byNeiiRoutman World News Editor As the picture for the upcoming presidential election becomes clearer, strategies are made and campaigns have begun. The race for J(eyprimaries is already under- way with candidates hitting such states as New Hampshire and I ovva. The eager office-seekers consi!it of Republicans Lamar Alex:ander, former·cabinet member Gary Ba.uer, former Vice-President Dan -Quayle, Elizabeth Dole, Texas Govemot George W. Bush, Arizona Senator John McCain, Pat Bucl'l!lnan, Steve Forbe~, Repre- Candidates Party 'George Bush R ·Lamar Alexander R 'Garr Bauer R E Iizabeth Dole R Pat Eluchanan R- John :McCain R John :Kasich R Alan Keyes R AI· Gore D Bill Bradley D · Ste~ Forbes R Dan Quayle R ·Bob Smith R fL. UNION trr· . Gift Plunning sentative J~hn Kasich, Alan Keyes and Representative Bob Smith. The only Democrats running are V·ice'-;President AI gore and New Jersey Senator Bill Bradley. With front-runner Bush showing a substantial lead in the polls over the vice president, President Clinton made comments last week to tb~:,:: .effect of \Al Gore should loosen up.\ . go out and have a good time. I want voters. His policies are described draw upon, and either Quayle, peopletokn10whim the way I kllow as \compassionate conservatism,\ Dole, or McCain. him. I want peqple to see him the yet his stances are fairly moderate; Of course, the vice-presidential wayl see him.\ he iswillingto·compromise tradi- candidate combination could Gore recently hired a new, ag- tiona! rightist proponenUi. swing this vote either way. Gore gressive campaign manager;; his An unconfirmed report stated paired up with Bradley would be a campaign is still lagging behind that Bush telephoned numerous difficult team to beat, but if Bush Bush's, yetiis gaining strength with members ofCongress, saying that chose either Dole or McCain, the Gore's campaigning. he would not run on the Republi- Republicans would probably have Bush is the clear front-runner. He can ticket if they did not pass the the national advantage. has l~dth~Vi~e-Presidentbys<>me most recent gun control bill. Watch forfurtberdevelopments estimates ofl01points; Bush's poli- Whether true or not, the legisla- in the upcoming months; the sum- des are not controversial; he has tion passed, alienating a traditional merofl999 will be crucialfor every been very ca11tious about taking supporteroftheGOP,theNRA. person listed bel<Jw. on difficultissues. He has been The only oth.eF candidates Look at the candidates now and able to capt11re the Hispanic vote strong enough to make a serious the issues they <:urrently support in Te:xa5, showing that he can at- run are Bradley, who has much in order to make an assessment The Vice-President has been portrayed in the media as a stiff, ~ncharismatic candidate. Gore, ini- tially damaged by the comments, rebounded by stating, \It is true thatl have urged him togo out there and enjoy this .. .1 have told him to ·tract nontraditional Republican more financial support on which to next year at the voting booth. - . Occupation Primary Campaign Issue Stance on Kosovo Texas Go\ernor Education and Welfare Would support ground troops Former Tennessee Governor Education, Taxes, Defense No negotiating with Slobodan Milosevic Political Activist General Rightist Values Opposes NATO bombings President of American Red Cross Tax Freedom and Gun Control Ground troops should be ready Columnist and Media Analyst America First Trade Policy A Firm Isolationist Arizona Senator Social Security Use all necessary force US Representative from Ohio Tax Cuts Opposes NATO interventions Political Activist and author General Rightist Values Goals should be more clearly defined Vice-President Education 100% Supportive of the President's actions New Jersey Senator Racial Unity Supportive of troops yet has been indecisive CEO Forbes, Inc. Social Security No ground troops, arm the K LA Former Vioe-P resident Tax Cuts Pushing for a diplomatic negotiation Representative from New Hampshire Crime and Education Opposes military strikes, no good strategie RITE AID INTERN WANTED .-, We're looking for an ener0etic team player to join Union Cellee~'e>Gift. Plannin~ Offioeef'or Fall1999. Confic::ientiality, accuracy, ae well aa .familiarity wi-eh Word P erfe:c;t ana a aatabaee, are important. PhOto Processing ' AaE\>itrt wit;n &peeled Projec\t;9 and. Gift. Pla1111itt{J Evenw. Thie; position requlree a minimum of 8 11rE>. pet\ week, To 1:1c: oone;lde~r~a for -t;hir:; greC:~t opportunity. e;ubmit yotJr r~~>Lim~ with 0111~ lettt::r of re:commenc.latlon. ~2 eoon a:;; po!2eikle. t;o: Jan~ L. Sa1:1in Aeet. to the. Director of Gift Pl.annlt1~ Union College ' 27 Terrace Lane· Schenec::-eady, NY 1230.:> (E><t. 6156) ' Need a Little Snack While Getting a Litter Sun in Front of · the Library? Fast Ready Easy Dutch An easy way to grab a quick bite without go- ing anywhere Go to RITE AID for All of Your Photo Needs RITE AID is located on Van Franken Ave (518) 382-3304 -- -

Page 12 Farew-ell Barry K. Srt1ith by Kimberly Rollback A&E Editor Barry K Smith has been a Pro. fessor and Director in the Unicm College Performing Arts Depart· ment since 197 I. For over twenty years, Barry has been challenging the accepted standarJs and monns of this small liberal atts college. Before I <Jan everbegin to explain what this incredible man has meant to me, his hundreds of otller stu• dents, his family,. vr this school, I have to provide you with the nec- essary background information. Barry received his BA from We.stmi nster College in New Wilmington, PA in 1960. 'He then spent eight years living,. teaching, and learning .in Thailand. Thus began his cross-cultural approacll to theater. He was a Teacher of Acting, Directing and Play Trans- lation at Chulalongkorn and Thammasat Universities in Bangkok from 1965-196<). He was a Teacher of English as a second language at Bangkok Christian College ftom 1960-1964. When he returned to the United States, he received his MFA from the Yale School GfDrama. In 1971 he began his teaching cueer here at Union. He met a fellow g,raduate of the Y.t~le School of Drama, when he arrived at Union, Professor Charles Steckler. \Th~'ywere mav- ericks,\ says visiting director, and Barry's soulmate, Dia11e Sadak. \They wanted to explore, and do things their own way_ It's interest- ing. About 99% of the 'I ale MF As go on to Broadway, film, or con- servatories ... These tw<J wanted t() work in a place that could help them find what theater was to them.\ The friendship between Barry and Charles has been described as ·~an artistic marriage,\ \brothers from the same collegial worn b,\ etc. They have pushed theater at this school to its limits. His teaching has ranged frGm acting workshops'in fndia, tl\e Williamstown Tneater Festival and improvisation with inner city youth and Vietnam veterans, to jGurnal writing and speech communica- tion. His varied interests have ex- plored the creative and so<:ial imagi- nation of Jewish, Christian, and Buddhist traditions through res i- dencies in Thailand, Japan, Zen Mountain Monastery, Abby of Gethsemani, and Kirkridge: cross- cultural communication and com- munity-building in American clll- ture at the University of Hawaii, Stanford, the Martin Luther King Center for Nonviolent social Change, and Habitat for Humanity in Americus, Georgia, as well as Hospice volunteer training; andal- ternati'les to teaching and learn- ing inspired by Stanislavsld, Grotowski, Augusto B<Jal, Paulo Freire, Richard Schechner, Robert Bellah, Parker Pal-met, Ste~hen Nachmanovitch, Peter Bmok, Anne Bograt and Frederick Franck. Thi~ next excerpt is quoted fr()m his Curriculum Vitae: \His ap- Barry and his family strolling through Korea. Courtesy CIJarles Stet:kler Charles Stecller and Barry K SmiJh-· artistically married proach to teaching and directing i:s pedagogically founded on Thea1e:r as a Metaphor for learning. Th-e value of theater in education goe:s far beyond polishing external tecll- niques of presentation. It can pr()- vide an environment where per- sonal sensitivity and e:xpression ()f body, mind, and feeling may be ex:· plored, integrated and given all· thentic voice-qualities essential fCir CCJurtesy Diane Sadak Barry's Three-year-old son, Noel. excellence in perform-ance. This process ()[ learning is most ben- eficial when one's hillmanity is touched; when matters of the heart are awakened; when trust is expe~ rienced within one's self; when students create out of a care for each otheras much as for the qual- ity ofperformance. Through the collaborative process of the the- ater, individual tale11t is devel~ oped, new attitudes about work~ ing in community are practiced, and joy experienced as responsi- bility is taken to share the work before an audience.\ \Barry enjoys working theatri- cally with students who are going to be lawyers and doctors ... they have no preconceived techniques. They have other interests which come out through the theater,\ says Sadak. Barry's original, long- time home was the Nott MemoriaL Charles and Bwry leamed a lot from- the building. The intimate size and roundness taught them to realize their ability to create more than a set; they created new worlds in- side ofthe si·xteen-sided structure. This theme of cir.cles, roundness, balls, rect!rS throughout many of Barry's classes. The classes that Barry has taught and continues to teach here at Union include: lmprov I, lmprov ll, Beginning Acting I, Advanced Acting ll, Directing 1, Improv lH, Mask Making and Perfonnance, Practical Theater, and Independent Study Projects. \I would say that lmprov l is his signatm::e course,\ says Sadak. \He is constantly re- shaping it. It is his Master Class. 'it has been fleshed out thtGugh so many students.\ Barry has gotten letters from students 1 0-15 years after they have taken the class, saying that they finally understand what Barry had been saying. As a current student taking Impn>v l, I understand how frustrating and confusing a lot of the work we do in this \Master Class~' can be. It is morethanworth it Twoweeksago, at the .senior wine and cheese, the speaker, an alumnus, spoke about her experience in Barry's Irnprov class. \Barry tries in a way that l ad- mire very much- tG live what he teaches- that hasn't always been easy,\ says Sadak. \I met Barry first as a student- we did not get involved until six mGnths after I left Union. He was forced to make choices he asks his students to make- risk taking- self-evaluation ... he has the cour.age to live what he teaches.\ Barry and Diane have two adorable children, Noel and Sage. In the \Grand Impmv of Life,\ he is a father again. \A com• pletely devoted father ofa three- year-old and a three month-old. They are tnGving to Maryland next year where Diane will begin in her new position as a Professor ofThe- ater at Townson University. \He supports me so much, artistically ... You:r partner is your perfonnance (oneofBarry'sfavor- ite expressions). He really believes it.\ Anyone who has ever worked with Barry understands the inten· sity and the power of his teach- ings. I have performed In two shows which he directed and I am currently taking his lmprov I. He has helped m.e t() discover things about me, life, and human relation- ships, that n0 one ever has. l am not alone. Just yesterday lie told us a story about a former student who learned how to escape his hate for the world thati<£6iscrlmi- nated against him through sculp- ture. There have been hundreds. of us who have awakened to life thanks to Barry. There will be han- dreds more. This is not a retire- ment. It is the beginning of the next bend in the road, and so I say Farewell ... we }()ve yo.u!! I '-

t I l y t t e D :- I. ct ~r !S :d 1• 1· '0 m le m ld nt is d- p- ds. fe n- ·e- he ay Arts & Entertainment O!nnc.nrhlensi~ • May 20, 199? • Page 13 U pop the Crooked Bridge by Kimberly Rohback A&E Editor This Friday, at 9:00 PM in the Nott Memorial, Kim Kilby will be conductillg,a concert of her senior composition, entitled \Upon :the Crooked Bridge.\ Kilby is ajuuior Biology/Music double major with a chemistry minor. She isenr<>lled in Union'sSeven YearMedicalFro- gram and will begin her first year of medical school this fall at Al- bany Medical College. K.ilby has participated in profes- sional musical activities for over 16 years, ranging from musical the~ ater to opera. At Union, Kim is the vocalist for the Jazz Ensemble. Also, she has been able to focus on music composition, which she thoroughly enjoys. Kim spent last fail in Nanjing, China on a Union Term Abroad. While there, she was fortunate - enough to take pipa (a Chinese in- strument similar to an American guitar) l.essoris from one· of Nanjing's best, Cao Yue. Kilby also attended many traditional music concerts that exposed her to au- thentic Chinese music .. The title ofher pie<:e comes from China. While visiting a garden in Slunghai, she learned that rnost bridges in Chinese gardens are zig- zag bridges. There are two levels thr:ough which the architecture can Kim Kilby outside of the Forbidden City in Beijing Courtesy Kim Kilby \Contemplation\ Black and White Photo, !999 INTERESTED IN WRITING FOR A&E? DO YOU PERFORM? DO YOU SING? DO YOU PAINT? DO YOU WRITE? DO YOU DANCE? DO YOU LIKE MOVIES? COME TO THE MEETING TONIGHT AT 6:00 ON THE 3RD FLOOR OF THE CAMPUS CENTER be examined. First, itis bel ie'Ved in China that evi:l spirits can only move in a straight line; therefore, if a traveler is running from an evil spirit, crossing a bridge will save him/her. The second reason the bridges are\crooked\ is that more time is needed to cross a zigzag bridge than a straight bridge, thus encouraging one to slow dbwn and enjoy the beautiful gardetl. \This piece,\ says Kilby, \is based on the idea of a zigzag bridge with sections {five movem~nts). While on a jowrney over this bridge, a traveler meets different storytellers. Each conveys ames- sage through music and/or poetry. After the traveler has finished crossing the bridge, the traveler is left to continue on the journey ac- companied now by thoughts of what was learned on the bridge.\ Kilby has assembled a group of the finest musicians at Union to performherpiece. Theyhavehad only five rehearsals, but Kilby is confident. \They are the best mu- sicians.\ The ensemble includes: Carin Gado (Flute), Portia Zwicker (Viola), Garrett Brown, Joanne Mumley, and Ian White (Percus- sion), Vanvimon Saksmerprome (Narrator), and Steve Gigliotti (Sona). \I wanted to use Western instru- ments to sound Hke Eastern instru- ments,\ said Kilby ofthe sound of her pie()e. She has imported some of the percussion pieces for dte performance fr()m China, and Noyes wiH be playing a pipa 11e bollght while in China. It has taken Ki;lvy ail of last term and one week this term to compose the piece~ \Plltting it into the comp\lter was the hardest part of the process.'• T'his is a tremendous event for a very talented student. Kim would like to g·ive a special thanks to her advisor, Professor Hillary Tann, the musicians who have volunteered their time and eff<1rttothe project, anciBarbara Bell. Kim will be con- ducting. \I would mucll rather be sing- ing,\ said Kim,ac; she humbly el\<· pressed the challenge that con- ducting presents. The performance is tomorrow nig.ht in the Nott Memorial. Ad'- missi<>n is free. 'There will be atl- thentic Chinese refreshments be- in~served, including real Chinese: green tea. Please go ollt and support all ori gina! piece of music by a vety gifted young lady, perfonned by ~ln enseml>le of Union's finest musi- cians. 'Take a good look at the beau ti- fu[ water-colored posters that Kim ha~ hand painted herself with some help from some friends. janet Murray MIT professor and scholar of cyberfiction \Hamlet on the Holodeck: The Future of Narrative in Cyberspace\ \Digital storytelling does not signal the end of the traditional narrative ... it marks the develop- ment of a new kind of literature that can make sense of our complex world.\ --janet Murray The Nott Memorial Tuesday, May 25, 7:30 p.m. A reception following the lecture will be held in Hale House.

Page 14 • May 20, 1999 • <!t.ouc~xbiensis Elections The 1999 Class Representative Class of2000 Representatives Jen Caruso Hi, My name is Jen Caruso and l would lik~ to be your Senior Class President. As our years together at Union ~re quickly com- ing to an end, I would like to help in maki.ng our senior year unforgettable. As the class ofthe millenium, we will defi- nitely leave our mark on UnioH with a fan- tastic senior gift. I pledge to make senior week amazing and uphold senior social events such as wine and cheese in the N ott a few times throughout every term during our senior year. I would als<J like to plan a senior trips for our class to experience other places in addition to Union. This not ali I would like to do for the class of2000, but I need your input as to what you want your senior year to be like. Through my involvement during the past three years at Union, I have developed the skills that will make me an effective class representative. Currently, I am the Vice President of the Junior Class where I have been fortunate to represent the ideas of our da.ss on the student forum and a partake in decisions affecting the future ofthe College. As Vice President, I took part in the plan,- ning of Wednesday nights at Chets, a phi- lanthropy for tornado victims, and am plan,. ning a social event to initiate our class into senior~hood. Also, I am on the Greek Con- duct Committee, Vice President of the Panhellanic council, a Big Sister, and a Gatekeeper. Through these activities I have endured working withmany different people and have learned about the necessities of planning effective events. I w iII be dedicated and committed to t})e leadership ofthe class of2000. I would like to encourage all juniors to vote on Friday, May 21, and when making your decision about senior class representative, please remember to vote Jen Caruso. Class of 2001 Representative Chirstina Baldassari Hi! My name is Cristina Baldassari and I am running for the position of Junior Class Representative. I would lo\'e the opportu- nity to represent my peers in the student government. My qualifications forth is job are numerous. First, I consider myself an outgoing individual who interacts well with others. I was involved in student govern- ment throughout my high school career. I was elected as class secretary for three yea ··s in a row, and I was in charge of coordinatin~ and planning various events, ranging from philanthropies to the prom. I have also been active in student life here at Union Colleg·e. I am a Gatekeeper and an Orientation Advi- sor. I feel that I have many innovative ideas and creative suggestions to contribute. In speaking with many students on campus, it Jon Lemle I want to start by thanking everyone who supported in my campaign for Junior Trustee. It was an exciting race, and I want to congratulate Erin for winning. I am ask- ing all of you for you r support once m()re. As a class representative, I feel that I can directly address the specific needs of our class. Serving on the Student Forum tllis past ye'ar as Vice-President, I have gained the know ledge and experience to be an even more effective class representative in the upcoming year. There are many pressing issues amongst the student body, I will take them seriously and continue to be in tune to your changing needs. I want to bring your ideas and opinions to the student forum and especially the administration. A couple <lf issues that I was a huge advocate of over the past year were Increasing the Library Hours, Support of the Dance Program, The Theater Program, keeping a trimester sys- tem, and providing a safer atmosphere on is evident that there is much frustration artd concern in regards to both dining options and overcrowding of dining services at meal time. I would like to further explore the no· tion of creating a new dining facility that would offer students more choices, like a larger salad bar. Overcrowding and stiffling conditions at the gym are another area I would I ike to address if elected. I am enthusiastic and responsible, and I would work hard to ensure that the needs of Union students are met. campus regardless of the costs. Aside from my experience the Student Forum, I am Co-Chiar of the Concert Com- mittee appointee to the Pledging Reforma- tion Committee of the U2K committee, and bartend at Chet' s. My in-depth past experi- ence and involvement, coupled with my com- mitment to the student body make me the most qualified to fill. this positi<ln. I have tile desire and the dedication to make me the most qualified to fill this position. I will re- define the meaning of student input and stu- dent voice on campus. Students will n<l longer feel like their opinions are not taken seriously. If you have any questions you can reach IJle at x806S or lemlej@union.edu. Feel free to get in touch with me anytime. Make sure to vote JON LEMLE for JUNI()R CLASS REP this Friday. Asad Choudhry Who the hell are we as people? A damn impotent question, which I cannot answer completely. But I doknow what I want and that is to make a genuine difference. F* - position, and F- yollr resume, F-all of that. If I ran for those reasons, I would be run- ning for what others think and perceive. To truly succeed inthis Hfe one must move past what others judge you as. I want campus involvement to become an automatic for myself and my class. Let's figure out what is go in on, and what we can do to help. Let's eliminate useless activity, and incor- porate useful inactivity. If one strains, some- thing is incorrect in the nature ofthe action. What is a Leader? A leader is one who stills his/her mind and observes their constitu ... ents and is able to encourage move-mentto- wards lesser social entropy. HARMONY Why then am I runnin? My ass is here to encourage free action, to culti·vate individu- ality and at the same time shbw the benefits ofcooperation. Bewme Yourself. Let this phrase become your mantra. Al- low yourself to shine like monkeys in the rain. The question of why we don't operate in such a manner, can be answered by ana- lyzing our world-view. We live steeped in the notion of materialism; that the world is made up of discrete particles and phenom- ena, and that we are separated by space- time, and thus we believe that all action should be taken to adv!lnce ourselves, be- cause we falsely believe one persons ad- vance is anothers decline, but I suggest that we can, if we change our viewpoint, all win. Friends, there is no separate~ this pseuclo- se.paration is a by product of our limited sense perception. That Jock who randomly picked you out of a crowd and broke your jaw i,n three places, he to is you. That girl who spit in your eye after you 'mistakenly' touched her br.east, she to .is you. We are all one, but yet simultaneously unique. There is no difference, yet everything changes(2pac), that's .. just the way it is. Know the following- you C!ln't live for the future, because there is no .future, there is only the experience of NOW. I'm not sayin the world's going to end just that we can't experience the future now. Live each day as if it's yourlast, metaphorically of course. So fhe best thing we can clo is get up off our asses and do something~ and not just anything, we've got to change from being a nation of self-obsessed me-monkeys, I isn't pointin fingers cause I am guilty ofthe same shit. Let's do this, Help me~ help you, help me, let's do this for the great~r good? As far as answering the question of what the greater good is, do what yourharttells you, unless of course you're insane, then don't do anything until we get you fitted for an ice white jacket. · F* =forget Reuben Kabel My name is Reuben Kabel and I am run- ning for a position as Junior Class Repre- sentative. I believe my experience on this campus will allow me to perform the duties of this office well. As an active and respon- sible member of the college community, I would like the opportunity to improve the quality of life for everyone here at Union. Students should be given room for personal as we II as academic growth. In order for this to happen, we must be allowed to truly gov- ern ourselves. It has become evident re• cently that wei as students, are slowly los- ing our independence to the college admin- istration. I propose to reverse this trend. By demonstrating responsible and capable stu- dent government, we will be given that op- portunity once again. I believe that Union students should have an outlet for their voices as well as the power to decide, on our own, what is appropriate behavior on our campus. In serving on tile student con- duct committee, •I have witnessed a cross section of various infringements of school rules.. Some are very serious. Some are trivial. Even in its limited power, however, the con- duct committee is one of t!te only outlets that we as students have to express our views over the behavior on our campus. The most important aspect of our ovemll education is quality of instruction we receive. Why then do we have so little impact on the ten11re review process? I propose that the standards for tenure be re-evaluated so that student input is weighed more heavily. In closing. I am a strong dependable candidate who wishes to serve his class. Vote Kabel on Fri- day. Steve Schuler Union is an amazing place and I want it to be the best it can be. I am truly excited to be a class of2001 representative. I have experience with student govern- ment as the sophomore class secretary/trea- sure, as a student forum member, and as a member of the student finance committee; I know the game. I also know what we all want from Union, a better quality of life. There are several things that if fixed up would make a II of our lives here a little better. • Valdine at local businesses • Reform dining services ... better food, and the option of a total Valdine meal plan • Fix the engineering track ... more credit for 20 hr labs • Put class and text book information on the Union web site ... on line registration • Improve our campus s<tfety ... more es- cort vans These are five of the maj.or quality of life issues that face students. Pe()ple have asked lt.'<t me recently if I really think any of these things can be done. What I feel is why au- tomatically assume they are impossible and not even try? It may take a great effort, but I am willing to give it a shot Thank you, Steve Schuler ] •

Elections <!Inm:nrllh:ttsis • May 20, 1 'J99 • Page 15 Elections - Vote Tomorrow!!! Class of 2002 Representatives Melinda Colon Hello, my name is Melinda Colon and lam rmning for Sophomore Class Repr.esenta- ti:ve. For those of you who do not already len ow me, I am ahard working and dedicated person. Here at Union I have shown some ()f my leadership skills as a part of the vol- leyball and softball team and as a member of MAG (Multicultural Awareness Group). However, my past experience .ranges from Student Government President to being a counselor at SY A (Special Young Adults). 1111e pointof all this is to let you know that I enjoy working with people, helping others, and getting things done. The reason I want to be elected as class representative is because I want to make a difference and create bigger and better op- portunities for the Class of2002. I want to make sure tllat our class gets the most out of our years here at Union College, both aca- demically and socially. As class representa- tive, you are responsible for developing stu- dent activities, setting up fundraisers for ~our class fund, and keeping the Student Government and Union community con- 11ected with and aware of our class. I can assure you of doing all of the above and more. I am a very persistent person, yet I am <JUite open-minded. Therefore, I would al- ways be open for suggestions and new ideas. Afterwards, with my persistency and determination, I would through with getting things done both quickly and effi- ciently. All in all, ifelected I would focus on rep- resenting you and your ideas, feelings, and thoughts; I am in this for the Class of2002! I am not afraid to stand up and fight for what we want, even if it is something that is not conventional or conforming to Union College's ideas and beliefs. Someone who is strong-wilted, focused, determined, dedi- cated, persistent, and willing to go out ooa limb for the class should represent us. I feel that I am qualified for this position, and I would be more than willing to take on this responsibiility. So, when you are voting for your class representative, think about what it is that you reaHy want to accomplish for next year. If you are in the Class of2002 and you are looking for a productive year in which you will enjoy yourself and benefit, then vote Melinda Colon for Class Representative. I promise you quality leadership and dynamic results! Don't forget, on May 2 1 vote Melinda Colon if you want the best person for the position of representing you! Gary Schwartz Hello, My name isGarySchwartzandi am while maintaining my grades. Hard work running for Sophomore Class Representa- are time management are two important tive. I am a hard-worker, and I will devote a qualities for the class representative posi- lot of time to this position if I am elected. tion, and I think I could handle the position This past year I have participated in U MED, with responsibility. intramurals,. atld am currently waiting on a The officers last year did a good job and job at Eddy's Senior Center. I also hold a hopefully this year their success can be re- campus job at the Rathskellar. I am able to peated. manage my time between my work-study, Good luck to all the other candidates, and classwork, and other numerous activities, I hope everyone votes on Friday. Class of2001 Representavives ... continued Braelin Pant·el My name is Braelin Pantel, and I would like to represent the Junior Class next year on the Student Forum. In my past two years at Union, becoming involved in campus life has been one of my primary concerns. My desire to represent the students has been expressed in my involvement in various or- ganizations; I am a two yearinember of the crew team~ a Gatekeeper, and a member of the Executive Committee of the Fashion Show of Support Involvement in these or- ganizations have helped me develop my keen ability to relate to people, as well as to make me better able to express my views and opinions. However, as your Junior Class Representative! my main focus will be con- veying the views ofthe class to the Student Forum. A common complaint of students on Union 1 s campus is that their views are often not represented; they feel that deci- sions are made without student input. I con- sider myself to be well- informed of the press- ing issues on campus and also to be an out- going, approachable person. These quali- ties, together with my organization and my dedication, will make me a successful repre- sentative of our class on the Student Fo- rum. ThisFriday,remembertovotefrom 10- 4 in the College Center, and remember Brae lin Pantel for representative of the Class of200 1. Lauren Goldstein Hi, I'mLauren Goldstein and I would love to represent our clas~ of2002 in the Student Forurn. I was always a part of student gov- ernment throughout high school, and defi- nitely want to continue that here; to do that, I need your vote! I have had an incredible freshman year, getting involved in activities like Gatel~eeper, Hillel, WRUC, and the novice crew team. I also think that 'involvement' includes at- tending events to support my peer. Whether a concert, a sports event, or a play, I feel like I participate in so much that this campus has to offer, and would love to do even more. I have had many significant leadership ex- periences, including running the publicity andfundraising foldsofmy high school stu- dent government and serving on the disci- plinary committee there. Also, from sports in high school and Union's crew team, [have learned a lot about teamwork, commitment, facing challenges, and working past them. I am certain that my past experiences can only help what we, as a sophomore class, will set out to accomplish next year. For those of you that know me, you know that I am very openminded, yet will not hesi- tate to state my opinion. I am also llonest, hardworking, and very energetic, all of which are crucial traits ofan effective leader. I am sure that whatever office I am elected to, I will be enthusiastic, dedicated, and ready to meet the most demanding stan- dards. Thanks for voting; your support means a lotto me Gina Markowski Yes Class of 2002, it is that time once again ..... Elections for Class Representatives! Th.is Friday please go out and vote for Gina Markowski for Sophomore Class Represen- tative. If you are thinking that it seems as though you just voted for your Class Repre- sentative, well you did, and time flies. In the fall, :you the Class of2002, trusted me to rep- resent the voices and views on this campus. Now, only a few short months later, I come to y()u again and ask for your support once more in these elections to ensure the con- tinuation of a successfu I Class of2002. This past year has flown by and is an indicator that the next three years will go by even faster. As a class, we need to make the most out of every experience and opportunity we have here at Union. To leave here in three years, we should be able to look back and appreciate the positive impact that we, as a class, have added to the Union College ex- perience. No longer will all ofour actions be overlooked simply because we have had the title of\rreshmen.\ In order to instill \a more perfect Union,\ please support me in the upcoming election to make certain that our concerns on this campus are addressed and resolved. I refuse to take a stance on any sort of campaign issues at this time simply because I do not want to make any false promises. I can however guarantee you the Class of 2002 one thing, a vote for Gina Markowski is one that you wi 11 not regret. So please go out and vote this Friday for a name with experience to continue working for U ... Vote Gina Markowski. Julie Wittekind Want abetter life at Union? Your first step is to have me in office representing you. I am here to listen to what you have to say. Work- ing together; we can make this sophomore year a wonderful experience. Priortothis elec- tiotl, I have held many leadership positions which has prepared me for this task. At Union College, I have participated in sports and sorority life giving me a better perspec- tive on Hte student I ife. I am enthusiastic about the opportunities and possibilities for the best interest of the sophomore class. You see things; and you say, \Why?\ But I dreams things that never were; and I say \Why notT' -George Bernard Sllaw BeckY Temblador-Vasquez i\s we come to the end our freshman year, I have begun to reflect about all the things that I have done here and those things that I have contributed to this class. I thought about how Union has changed me and if I made any lasting affect on the people here. But then I began to realize that I had no idea about what the class as a whole had done at Union thus far. I had no idea what kind of decisions had been made for the future of our class and that bothered me. The reason for this is that there has not been an attempt by the current committee to keep the other • st1tdents aware and involved. If elected, I wilt strive to share information with others wllo have felt that they have not been a part of what is going on. There are many ways to keep the student body infonned about what kinds of deci- sh>ns are being made for and about them. I believe that if the other students feel that their voices are being heard and tlteir opin- ions are being listened to that they will want to be more involved in making our class bet- ter. To discover th.e thoughts of the stu- dents and to find what is wanted from the class, I will conduct polls and sllrveys. I will hold informational meetings with stu- dents in an effort to let them know what things are being addressed by their student government. My main focus is to be keep the rest of the people in our class infonned. I wish to be the voice of the rest of the stu- dents so that their ideas get heard.

Page 16 • May 20, 1999 • <!Inn.corMensis Science & Technology Science & Technology Computer Crime and the Internet by Steve Ayers Staff Writer I learned one of my most valu- able lessons aboutcomputers from my high school computer~program­ m ing teacher. He would occasion- ally shut off a power switch for al:l of the computers in the room. As I watched my work disintegrate be- fore my eyes, I learned a valuable lesson: never trust a computer with your data. This has become even more applicable as computer crime i1creases with the expansion of the Internet. a trend to which colleges and universities can be especially \Ulnerable. College campuses are inherently more vulnerable to attacks by hack- ers because they have far less con- trol over the wJy students use thdr ~omput~rs. Students O\\ n their own comput- er::.. and campuses can't prohibil them !Tom using different programs or monitor their email and web ac- cess. Hackers see college comput- ers as a weak point in the Internet and may use them to gain access to other systems. In March, hackers exploited a weakness in the Windows 95 and Windows NT computer systems on 25 university and corporate com- puter systems. causing computers to switch to a blue-screened error message. This type of attack, known as a'\Denial of Service\ at- tack, caused :ne permanent dam- age to computers, but users were forced to reboot their computers., losing all data that wasn't saved {reinforcing my caveat: never trust a computer). Such sophisticated attacks may be rare, but the Internet has helped to make the tools of computer crime more accessible to less advanced computer users. Any code of ethics among hack- ers, such as an agreement not to crash systems intelltionaHy or read personal information, is less likely to be followed. After only several rn inutes of searching, I was able t() find web sites with viruses and tips on how to break into computer systems. Users who down load any file from a site that contains viruses run the risk of infecting their own computer, as well as facing pos- sible legal penalties. But for those with mischievol.is intentions, it is relatively easy to cause large amounts of damage. Much of the computer crime committed by students is less ma- licious, often caused by confusion on the law. The Executive Director ofComp>uter Services advises, \If you're not sure if something isle- gal, don't do it.\ Some entrepre- neurs try to run businesses over their school computers. Many stu- dents pirate illicit copies of soft- ware from other students. Some students who are curious about their school's computer system run into trouble when they explore where they are not allowed. Other students run into trouble from '~flaming,\ or severely chas- tising other users in email, which is illegal when it contains explicit threats. Combining Creativity An Artist and a Mathe~natician by Alex Militello Contributing Writer Imagine that you are wandering through the halls of a modern art museum when, all of a sudden, tbe strangest thing catches your eye: a sculpture on display, which is made up of ordinary household items put together in the most non- sensical fashion. You are quite puzzled as you notice an ordinary bicycle wheel attached to the top of a stool and a snow shovel atop a pedestal. Why would anyone be tempted to consider these common items works of art, let alone mas- terpieces? The concept of the ready-made idea might give us a little bit of insight into the thought processes which went into a type of creativity that put the rest of the art world on its head. Tomorrow, at the third install- ment of the Art/Science Collo- quium, sponsored by the Physics Department, writer and artist Rhonda Roland Shearer will talk about how the introspective dis- cussions of mathematician Henri Poincare influenced a revolution in the art world, as embodied through the work of Marcel Duchamp. These \household items,\ which are on display as modem art exhib- its, seem to be a kind of artistic rep- resentation by Duchampofthecre- ative thought processes ()f Poincare as the latter had ~t­ tempted to analyze his own uncon- scious thinking. Put another way, Poincare changed some of his working habits after \days of un- fruitful conscious work.\ Follow~ ing this change, as he woke up one morning, many ideas sprung forth to his conscious mind, allowing him to simply choose among the \ready-made\ ideas from his un- consciousne'Ss that worked tile best for what he was doing. Enter Marcel Duchamp. Duchamp, who is a creative and innovative person him'self, takes this one step further by character- istically allowing his own unc(Jn- scious ideas to shine through in order to create a new form of\m en- tal beauty\ instead of the usual aesthetic images which people are used to much of the time. These structures of\mental beauty\ take on a physical form in the eyes of Duchamp, ofwltose work someme probably will not understand, un- less one keeps in mind the fact that these sculptures are visual repro- ductions of his own personal cre- ative unconscious machine. Whether or not our own uncon- scious mind can make sense of someone else's unconscious cre- ativity remains to be discovered, but just the idea that someone was willing to go against the grain of visual art in such a way that Duchamp was willing to do to sup- port his own ideas shows that he was probably on to something rather large in its scope. Ms. Shearer's talk will be con- cerned with somewhat different aspects ofthe Duchamp- Poincare relationship. As usual, the talk will be at 12: I 5 in the Science and En- gineering Building in N304. All are welcome who would like to come and find out more on this intrigu- ing topic. The following week, on May 28 at 12:15, Professor Janet Van Blerkom from Smith College will be discussing \The Musical Sound;\ the musical and physical relations inherent within the study of different pitches, musical acous- tics and the like. Students who publish their own web sites may find themselves in trouble for copyright violation if they use images without permis- sion. The Fox network has asked network administrators to close down web sites dev<ited to The Simpsons, and ComedyCentral has been cracking down Ofl unofficial South Park web sites. More re- cently, Lucas Arts has taken the some- what drastic step of ·telling administrators that they will request the identities of own- ers of all unofficial Star Wars web sites. Relatively little re- search has been done on computer crime. A study published in 1997 in The Journal of Research in Crime Delinquency found that the most common form of com- puter crime was soft- ware pirating, and that over 40% of those surveyed had pirated s·oftware at some point in their lives. Stlldents who admitted to commit- ting computer crimes were more likely to be male and more likely to be repeat offenders. Another study by the University of Michigan estimated the costs of computer crime to range from less than $15,000 to over $1 00,000, and had as much to do with the schoo I' s response as wilh the origi- nal crime. Students can take action to se- cure ~heir computers against com- puter crime. Students can prevent hackers from breaking into their accounts by making their passwords long. and complicated (but not compli- cated enough that they are forced to write it down). Students who share files over a network {as in Microsoft's Network Neighbor- hood) can limit access to their files by only sharing one directory or by using passwords. Viruses can be prevented by Windows users at Union with a free anti-virus program at: http;// www.union.edu/RESOURCES/ OC SIRE SOURCES/UN I ON/ FTP WIN95 SOFTWARE.HTML. - - With the '\urbanization of the \Global Village,\ an increase in crime is expected,j ust as it is in the real world. But if we let fear guide our decisions, the solution to this problem could be just as bad. The authors ofthe Melissa and Chernobyl viruses were ap.pre- hended, with the discovery by Ri- chard Smith that Microsoft was using a special ID number to track the authors of Word documents. Although in this case it was used to track down the author of a virus, it could be used to track down the author of a personal document. Already, courts have impounded private email communications in di- vorce cases. Greater demand for security from hacking could leave us less secure from invasionofprivacy. Perhaps instead of relying on elaborate security measures for safety, users could better protect themselves by not relying on com- puters at all. Blue Lasers: Solving Co~nputer Storage Problems by Daniel Kelma11ovich Staff Writer The next breakthrough in com- puter storage is the use of blue la- sers for storing digital media. Con- ventional CD-ROM drives use a red lasertoread infonnation off of a CD. The blue laser storage de- vices work in the same way as a CD-ROM drive but use a blue la- ser to attain storage capacities of almost teh times that of today's DVDdisks. A laser is a focused beam of a single wavelength of light. The light is focused through mirrors and the light is produced by cer- tain chemical reactions. Lasers use a specific wavelength of light. Red lasers use a greater wavelength of light tover 630 nanometers) than blue lasers ( 414 nanometers). Con- Ventional CO's and DVD's use the red laser to read pits ()n the media surface which the computer trans- lates into ones and zeros of stored infonnation. By having a shorter . wavelength; the blue laser can in- crease the storage capacity of the CD or DVD by milking the recorded pits smaller. The smaller pits allow the media to hold more ones and zeros, thereby increasing the stor- age capacity by two to four times. The first company to produce a blue-light emitting diode for the la- ser was Nichia Chemical in 1993. The company is now testing lasers using a violet light which has an even shorter wavelength than the blue light. The substance used to produce the blue laser is gal·lium nitride. The blue laser could be used in a variety of other applications, in- cluding increasing the resolution of digital printing (laser printing); im- proving projection displays; opti- cal communications; and even some forms ofmaterial processing. The blue laser is being researched, and attempts are being made to find mass production techniques that would be affordable. Panasonic, Sony, and 3M are some of..the other companies interested in the blue laser technology for enhancing their products. In the future, the blue laser may become as commonly used as today's red laser technol- ogy. It hopes to increase the stor- age capabilities of optical drives as well as enhance current products. ' ! t I

r r r s :l s ( j :, e rt e n ~t id r- s. a a- 3. rs m 1e to m ta n- of n- ti- !n g. d, 1d .at ic, .er ue lg ne ily >I- )r- as :s. . [ A Grain of Salt How do· you know if ro:u ave strong enough in yourself .to Gast aside outside opinion and sta11don your own beliefs and ideas? The question of finding in.dividu- ality and strength in bei!Lg yDur own person is a constant s.tr;uggle for young adults. At 20 yean o-ld,J am not soholdto say that balteady know who I am or that J: h~ve a concrete ideology. I don't ltave a full grasp on _either ofthese: things. I think college is a tim.eto· d.iscover where your heart beats ami bow your mind runs. What is strange is that for a.ll of my self-assurance that I 11a'Veright now, there is.still a large part ofrne that is very easily bruised My se- nior project for the arts dep:artment was to produce a coUecti<Jn of works and display them h ;a, gal- lery-like fashion. Sa, for ·th~ ma- jority of.this year, I havve been the inhabitant of a small stu<lio in North Colonnade where 1 painted diligently, with a trusty sll:er~o as my only companion. For <l.Uofthat work and passion and he,art, I lov-. ingly hung my exhibit this past weekend while the rest oftlhecam- pus was running ahotJt d.u ring Springfest. So, I must admitthat Iga~eapart of myself to every pajntillg, print and sculptme in the Arts lltrium. l left myself on display, to bejlldged and mulled over. I suppOtse tllat by being in the public eye, 1 aslce<l for an audience for my wovl< and should accordingly deal .\;\>ith the consequences of being so•open. There is a guestbook.. \¥here people can sigll their thougnts, in- timatioas and opinions of my work. Being the naive person that I am, I assumed that l vtould walk away from my sllow with a book filled' with warm wordsofencour- agement and good wishes. And for the most part, there is 11othing but praise lining those pages from friends, family and ratldom pass- ersby.l suppose I am most grate- ful for those comments. from people who are not my friends and do not <>We me positive feedback. The thought that a comple(e strange:r admires something that I have -created is an especially deli- cious feeling. l think that is the same fm most people: we all know that oar fr.iends and family will loyally pr~ise our efforts, but someh<lw it means more when S()ine<Jne with no oblig.ations takes a .m.oment to praise us with un- forced intent. And it is for that .same reason that criticism from strattgers hurts so rn uch as well. For all of the glowing words that I did receive in that book, there was one snide comment, signed anonymously. And I will admit here that it tore at my lleart and left me self-doubt- ing all day. I could not cast away that c<Jrnment or keep it from danc- ing d~monically on my brain. The words hurt. l wo;uld love to believ'(l that I am strong enough in who-! am to not care\Nilat some faceless individual thinks or feels about ~hat I do. l am n<Jt, though. ln life, we all turn to others in order to. gauge our achievements, in order to make sure tint we are okay and on the ·May 20, • right track. It is very hard to just live for ourselves alone. We all face some sort of every day. Whetber it is cnrt~Tn tive or unwarranted; a11yth.ing that attacks our sense of accomplish- ment takes our pride down a level . ortwo. Whywecaresomuch .. v ... , ..... ()ther people's opinions is an unan,.. . swerable question. But: the fact · mains, if someone d.isapproves our appearance, moeks our level success or looks down upon belief system, we all start to dou ourselves. Everyone !las insecuri- ties, a.nd .learning to move past rn.,·m·• is one ofthe first steps in the matu- ration process. S0, I will take that comment hide it away in the back of my brain. Everyone is entitled t·o their own opinion. I cannot expect tG please everyone. I suppose that without criticism I would not be able grow as a person or improve my- self. I have to leam to not be so overly sensitive to the '\differences\ in interpretation of my efforts others may have. I suppose if I am confident in my own work then I should not worry ab·out anyone else. It's a hard thing, to be your own person and look past disap- proving eyes. Criticism is just another form expression, and if something I do is offensive or impinges in the in- tellectual rights of a11other indi- vidual, then I will deal with there- percussions of that fact. We are all intertwined as human beings, play- ing off each other's comments and growing up from the impact of each others words. Word Search by Amanda Jackson M 8 E D y I .A E L v G T A c y M A F T A F R p 1{ A w 0 I H w R A G s L A B L T H T A N M E E 8 E L w N A D M 8 L T 1. w 8 y H F T c 8 E N N I I I w A 'r M A H c A 8 I H 8 A A F A T L H D E L G 0 c H A w u T I F M v 0 y N 0 H T N T K y H T A E E I A N N T' A c y D 8 w H 0 H 0 R R v D E G 'I\ I s 0 D 0 E I s E L E E I 0 N' I M u E A H F A I '1' 0 E D N c 8 I T y A y s F L R y H E G ' E T E E A T 0 s y I E I M c E N v v w I F B 0 A.. B T s s F M R B c 8 L 0 K R E H s M J T s E y E 0 T L E R D G R 0 VI I N G :p A I N s I E B L N E c K I N K F E p F A s N. N R D c 8 D I 1-1· u y u y L s I B L E M K I E u G R T A B L s A M u A J c H A R L E s I N c H A R G E p u D R s E H y L H s E X 0 R T s T N T T E H K A [ N K J s L A B s D A FAVORITE so•s TV SHOWS ' A DIFFERENT WOltLD A TEAM CHARLES IN CHARGE CHEERS COSBY SHOW DALLAS DIFFERENT STROKES FAMILY TIES GROWING PAINS LA·LAW MASH MIAMI VICE MR BELVEDERE MY TWO DADS OUR HOUSE OUT OF THIS WORLD T H A A M A s T 0 R I c H E E A u E T p N ' L T A I E c B L 0 L B H T I N A D E L 0 y E B E s T 0 0 T R E D T 0 u s H K 0 p w T N E p s T L 0 0 A R 0 D s F E E 0 B A K T v T R I w T H R 1 E I E L l R s w F y A s E N E 8 T A w s 0 u H R u 0 s u L y I L R E 1 E G B c L E R E F F I D D 0 w T y M E PUNKY BREWSTER RAGS TO RICHES SILVER SPOONS ST ELSEWHERE THE FACTS OF LIFE WEBSTER WHOS THE BOSS M N 8 A H u p H u 8 N T K E y I B 8 R E E w w H 8 E T R E E R 8 F T H D M L E 0 L p Woo hoo! We had Springfest this weekend'. Everybody had a good time, right? I had a pretty . good time, b11t I defir;~.itely had some issues ....,,ith the way it was run. Let's talk al1out Water Buffalo \ first. I wasn't there, but the word is that Sig C!lJ,j got in trouble fov having this party. Not for the 25 kegs that they-had, but fora Life/ Safety violation. There were \too many people\ inside, and the water on the noor could've made someone slip and die. Wow! It seems like this event is something thathasn 't been going on forever. Thethreat thaA this new party im- poses is great. Students drinking at ten in the morning. Dear God! They also g<lt in trouble for hav- ing a party befo.re 4:00 PM They'll probltbly get three weeks probation and! a meeting with the student condluct committee for this evil affai!'. First, I bet til at every student on the conduct committee was there, getting trashe() with the rest of the campus. Hov.' would punishment work, th.en? \Sig Chi, y()u are. a bad influence·on this campus and you deserve to be .... (lli ccu p).\ Second, who really cares? Was anyone complaining about this party? Why ruin people's good time on t:he weekend of Springfest? l hate the way people in charge are constant!' pretending to not notice certain things throughout the year, but on the weekend of the biggest drinking event all year at Union, security and whoever else is respo11sible for being anal have to prove: their \true\ author- ity over us. On that topic, what morons had security cirde Wes! Beach in at- tempts to keeiP people fr<Jm smug- gling in alc.ohol? They were checking people's coolers. Everybody';s wasted anyway. Why doesn't security circle every registered pflrty and rip alcohol from people':s hands? l think that would help make everyone hap- pier. We can drink outside on a Fri- day aftern<i«Jn for the campus crawl, but when there's a huge stag-e setup, and there's Loud mu- sic going on, we can'tdrink. We can be drunk. There is no ques- tion about that. We call drink 1 00 yards away from West Beach. Just not insi(!e the invisible bar- rier. At one pot11t I was sitting on the stone wall \\'latching one of the bands, and at security guard con- fiscated my empty plastic cup. Give me a f'lfo$ing break. After he took away my threatening Page 17 empty cup, I took a look around. Every single person was ripped. The administration knew this. Securityknewthis. We knew this . Sov;hy all this fake authority! It's so lame. This school shmlld just rn (Ike its mind up. Are we a s1rict rule-abid- ing prison or are we lenient when people are having a good time? And :I'm sure that security was having a great time 'walking around in the 80 degree sun in long pants. I hope I'm not implying that this weekend was bad or anytlling. 1 had a great time. It's the little things that pissed me off. l realize that I had a hard time making my point in my column this we:el<, but l tl1ink you get it. Okay, enough of the m i11dless dribble. I would like give ()Ut my first ever STUDENTS OF THE W8EK AWARD. This prestigious award goes to fresh wDmyn Br()oke and Sue. Tllese two fine, young cannibals have been begging to be men- ti<Jned in my column for over a m()nth. I s&id that I would put them in the paper t:mly if they streaked dt1ri11g the Truman Show this weekend, while eating tile bones oftlle administrator oftheirdaoice. Great job guys! So in the Spring fest fashion, here's a tlJp ten list. lOP TEN ACHVITIES OR RIDES I WOULD LIKE TO SEE AT SPRINGFEST 1(). Slip and Slide on broken glass, with lemon juice i11ste:ad of water. 9. Race to the top of the giant nipple. 8. The \bring in a bottle <!f Ha- w~tiian Punch, that is really filled with. grain, to trick security\ relay race. 7. Professor wet T-shirt contest. fl. Supermodei wet T-shirt con- test. S. Gladiator fighting witll spiky- metal-chain\balls i11stead o()f nerf sti(;ks. 4. Naked Slip and Slide <On bro- ken glass, with lemon juice instead of water. .3. Naked Lobster Bake. 2. Naked Comedy lmprov. l. Naked Supermodel rock bfln<l.

Page 18 • May :lO, 1999 • «!on.cnrvhru;;;il6 Sports Knicks Barely Squeeze Past Miami into Round Two by Brian Terlinsky Sports Editor At the beginning of the 45-game season, Knicks fans, including myself, were wondering ifthe ad- dition ofbadboy Latrell Spreewell would make any difference in the team's ability to make something of themselves when it came crunch time a.KI playoffbirths were being determined. I guess we all were wrong, as the Knicks have redeemed them- selves again this year in the first round ofthe playoffs, sending Pat Riley and his team off to the beau- tiful golf courses in the Miami area for the summer. A !though Pat Riley is from Schenectady, a former Knicks coach and is supposedly the one of the best strategic C(}aches in the NBA, Knick fans love to see him lose, especially in the playoffs. And I am sure that Jeff Van Gundy loves every minute ofthis victorious series against one the best teams in the Eastern Confer- ence, the Miami Heat. So, as l' watched the final game this past weekend, all I could re- ally conclude is: What a game! What a ser.ies! And let's go New York! Tile Knicks have again ad- vanced into the second round of the playoffs and moved to take on the Atlanta Hawks, after being the first eight,.. seeded team since 1994 to beat a first-seeded team. Al- though Miami was the first-seeded team, that did not mean an easy series against a pretty stacked eight-seeded team. Here is a shortened version of the .series summary of the Knicks versus the Heat: The New York K11icks blew the Miami Heat out in game one, 95-75, lost game two af- ter Alonzo Mourning guaranteed a win all of the television, blew Miami out in game three 97-73, lost a strong lead in game four and fell to force a game five, and then played their hearts out in the best game <Jfthe season. However, it is safe to say that Latrell Spreewell has actually made a difference for the team, as he was the Knicks overall leading scorer in the regular season and got New York fans interested in the team again. \There is doubt that any Knicks fan would disagree that their win against Miami in game five on Sun- day was one of the most important and exciting games of this short- ened season. Patrick Ewing days ar~ numbered in the NBA and he still is without a championship. Rumors have spread faster then you can butter a bagel that if the Knicks did not advance to round two, Head Coach JeffVan Gundy would be officially fired and Patrick Ewing would hang up his jersey for good from the game of basket- ball (Ewing all season long has plagued with injuries, keep- him on the bench and forc- iing him t<J ponder the thought life after the NBA). Having these sensitive ru- put much pressure on the cks during this first series <:~gainst longtime rival Miami. lhis was the third time in three these two teams matched- up in the playoffs, as it was ()nee again the battle of the un- ies- Pat Riley/Jeff Van and Pat Ewing/ Al<Jnzo Mourning. However, the . lKnicks would come out as the · ct<Jr, beating the Heat for the year in the playoffS. As game five got underway ;at a packed Miami Arena, the . Knicks fate was in their own \\\•'n\'; as they allowed Tim Hardaway and Alonzo Mourn- . ing to dominate the floor, giv- ing the Heat an 11 point lead early in the first quarter. How- ever, after two time-outs taken by the Knieks, JeffVan Gundy . ·got his team back into the game to tie the score at 21 by the end of the first quarter. By end of tile first half, Miatnijumped out with a four-point lead. ~~~~--------~--~~ It was in the second half that both teams' seasons were on the line. Tim Hardaway was no- After defeting the Heat, JeffVanGunily'sjoh is safe for now. where to be found, scoring only nine points for the Heat, but Mi- ami still kept the lead all through- out the third and most of the fourth quarter. There were stellar perfor- mances from the Heat's Dan Majerle and P.J. Brown, who had 16 points, and grabbing 12 re- bounds for his team. Nevertheless, the game would come down to the final seconds of the game. Miami had the lead 77- 74, up until Patrick Ewing was fouled. Playing in the game with a sore Achilles tendon, Ewing had already 20 points, with II r~­ bounds. Making the two free throws, Ewing gave two more points to the Knicks, but they were still down, 77-76. With 10 seconds remaining in the game, Tim Hardaway would tum the ball over to the Knicks, giving New York one last shot. With less then five seconds, Alan Houston put up a shot that definitely looked like it would not e-ven touch the rim . However, the shot would bounce off the rim straight up, and back down into the net, giving the Knicks the overall lead and the win. Miami could not get a shot off, since they had only eight tenths of a second remaining. This was a huge win for the Knicks. Jeff Van Gundy's job is pretty secure right now, according to reports and other articles, and • he has really no reas<Jn for being fired. His track record for the past few years has been pretty excep- tional, taking the K.nicks to the playoffs for the last three yeats. As the Knicks look to the next round, l will give my long shot prediction. I am going to have to go with the Knicks in six games. Don't forget that I did predict UCONN to win the NCAA way back early in March, so watch out! Sign-up for the Union College golf tournament in the college center. Cost is $30, includes lunch, dinner,. a t-shirt, I 8 holes, a golf cart and other prizes. li!-+ Contact Eric Lukach for details

Sports QI:llmntbien~is • May 20, 199'9 • Page 19 A Senior Athlete Recalls Wonderful Memories at Union ' ' . . by Peter Flynn StaffWrit?r During the last couple of weeks, 1 have been looking back at my four years at Union College, trying to draw some significance and mean- ing from my various experiences, My terms abroad, my classes and especially the people I have met here have all contributed to my overall experience. One aspect of my life that 1 have learned from in particular is running. Oprah Winfrey may have said it 'best when she said, \Running is the greatest metaphor for life, you get eut of.it what you put into it.\ Oprah isright. With something like running, if you put in the time, you wiU usually be rewardea. I think that almost every aspect of a person's life may be this way as well', though for most things, it, is not _so simple. There is something different about running, and maybe sports in general. How often <to you get a my~iad of people who you don't know cheering for you for doing a fine job on your homework? Are classmates inspired to rush up and congratulate you when you ace an exam1 U11less you are a prodigy musi- cian or are in the process of win- ning the Nobel Brize, these things probably don't happen to you in everyday life. I think sports may bring out a more emotional side of people. When you pass .someone in the final meters of a race and claim vic- tory for yourself and your team, you are mnmentarily a hero. Though the feeling only lasts a second, it is worth weeks and ~onths of training. With an .indi- vidualized sport like nmning, your work (orlackthereof;) is especially visible because your efforts are not dJ.Iuted by a team. I am now three and a half weeks away from graduating. 'I will then venture out into the .real world where \making a living'' will likely become tfue focus of my life. I hope that my competitive spirit won't die Just because my in- volvement in collegiate sports has ceased. This past Friday I represented Union College. as a mnner for the Jast time~ Earlier this spring, I missed qualifying for nationals in the 1 OOOOm event by one second and this was my last chance to qualify. I got a cramp early on in the race which slowed my pace. With two miles to go, it was quite apparent that I would not meet the quaJifying time. I felt like giving up, hut I finished the race anyway. Though my performance was s<;>mewhere between bad and pa- thetic, somethillg inspirational happened during the race, some- thing entirely separate from me. There were rough·Iy 35 Union stu- dents and others who came to watch me end my career. The last two la,ps of the race I was. running side by sid~ with Nick Conway, a person who ran with me for viituaHy every race my fresh- man and so~homor.e years, We were actually the only two left on the track. Everyone watcbing gave us a standing \0\ as we jogged it in. When I crossed the line two miutes slower than what I had set out for, I looked around and saw dozens of friendly people offering smiles~ handshakes an<! hugs. No one seemed to he bothered by the fact that I ran one of my worstracesever. Thesunwas set- ting over the RPI track, frisbees were flying, and I was .glad to have ended my career then, in spite of my failure. Thi~ experience reinforced the advice that someone had given me once which can be applied. to my college years and life in general. She told me to focus on the jour- ney and not on the destination. I hadmany fun times, accomplished some respectable feats, and met some amazing people in my jour- ney to nationals. The fact that I didn't make it there almost seems like a minor detail now. I'd like to end this article with a quote from a woman named Zoe Kaplowitz, who finished the NY City Marathon in 24 hours on crutches because she had multiple sclerosis. \Have a dream, make a plan, go for it. You'H get there, I promise.\ If you don't get there, at least you' II have fun trying. oto A Union track member prepares himself for the start of a race this year. Track Notes: Chris Strohsahl has appeared in more Track Notes than any other athlete. I wantto sincerely apolo- gize to Chris. (Chris, I know you '11 .get me back when you're writing the articles.) J would also like to thank every- one who came to .the race on Fri- day. It means a l>ot when people give up their Friday .afternoons to watch someone nm around in circles for six miles . •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • • • • • ., :Na.w '·· The 1999 Block U Banquet From Year Sport Award • • • • • • • • . . ~ : Ryan Alrrstead • Ben.Gilbert • : Matt LaPorta : ~lissa Iv.fatusewicz . . . . . :_John ivkCarthy : Bryan Slekes • • BnmnRoy • ... J-~ ·. : Yvonne Turchetti : Zena Woldeyesus • • HOOson,NY Senior Brattleboro, vr Freshtmn Re~selar, NY Freslmm. Florence, 11A Sopoonnre Ballston Sp~ NY Senior Rocl~ster, NY Sopoormre Galway, NY Junior RedHook,NY Freshtmn Englewood, NY Jwior Baseball Football Football SqcceriTrack Football Football/Baseball Soccer Field Hockey Basketball Fred W. Bruhn Award Freshn:nn.Ivfale Athlete ofThe Year Nels NitclnmnAward II • • • • • • • • • Athletic U;parttrett's SophoiiDre Athletic Prize • • Ronald F. Plurrb ~rrDrial Award • • Athletic !Xparttrert's SophorrDre Athletic Prize : BryanT. Bakker ~nDria1 Award : • Terri Lynch-Jackie Havercanp ~rrnrial Award: Paul RieschickAward • • • • • • • • • • • The 1999 Prize Day Awards • • • • • • : .Nalre From : Peter Flynn Nev\ton, :MA : Qssie LaW:on :P.rin;eton, Nf • Sarah~s 1\rOO\er, MA • • : &ymRoy Gtlwty, NY : Ym~ Tt:rcretti Redh>ok, NY • Year Senior Jwior Senior Junior Freshnm Sport 'Iia:k Temis SOccer, Ice lbckey, I.xrosse Soccer Field Hockey Award WtlliamBJaffe MOOal E.CAC :Mrltl oflvbit Robert Riding) AwlrdarrlWorren's Conmission Senior Athletic Prize WilliamA Pike lvtmJriatlfq:ily. Worrerls Conmission.Athletic Protrise Ava'd • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - ..... -- >

. .., StS Page 20

515 Page 20

~'Only those who dare to fall greatly can ever achieve greatly.'' -Robert F. Volume CXXVIII. Number XXIV The Student f\lewspape,. of ~nion College Since 1877 · May 27 , 1999 . · -http://concordy.umon.edu . . . Security Updates Page3 Children Compete in Youth Olympics by MaryFeltmi Sta.f!Writer event on Sunday was overheard Jessica Jackson, Robyn Polansky, saying her child has been on the and Julie Stapens of Sigma Delta wait.listfor a \Big\ for four years. Tau, Marc Grozalsky and Steve Hopefully The Youth Olympics Tountas of Theta Delta Chi, Jon In an attempt to encourage stu- gave some students the desire to LemleofPhi Gamma Delta, Andy dent invo1vement on Union's cam- have a little brother or sister next Donohue of Sigma Chi, Katie pus and .also prornote the Big year. Zipser of Delta Delta Delta, Jen had a little brother or sister, or members ofthe Schenectady com- munity who wished to come and help out. Many volunteers arrived at 9 AM to help sd up for the ac- tivities which were to ensue. The children who did attend Brothers/Big Sister pmgram, the This event was primarily orga- Brate of Gamma Phi Beta and Youth Olympics oR Sunday were seve~h Mnu~ Youili~~~~~~~-------------------~-~~,furedw~aw~~o~ Olympics was held this. of activities. A basketball Sunday, May 23, on Bailey net was set up on the track Field. for those who wished to Roughly eighty-fivekids shoot hoops. There was a from the Schenectady area popcorn machine where A Long Night .. · at Ellis Hospital with an ages rang.ing from the kids could get snacks, six to fourteen showed up and a tie-dying station at 10:30 AM on Sunday where their brand-new a day full offunandgames white Youth Olympic tee despite the imminent bad shirts were quickly trans- weather. formed into colorful mas- Page 7· World News: China Steals US Military Technology Page 10 Sports: A Look Back at this . Year's Sports Page 18 Inside. Campus News- 3 Opinions- 6 A&E-8 World News .: 10 Features-12 Technology -15 Sports -17 Our E-mail The majority ofthe chi!- terpieces. dren taking part in the ac- A series of games were tivities came through ·the ized for the kids on Big Brothers/BigSistersor- the turf. Among these ganization in the area, In were a sponge toss, \suit order to attend YouthOiym- up\ (a relay race which in- pies, ·children in the area volves changing clothes), were sent invitations and switch,\ a baUoon perm issiOtl slips. Children from the mirBrother/Big Sister program n·. art<~CllJG[e relay, bobbing for donuts, In addition to providing games at this year's annual Youth Olympics. and a potato sack race. entertainment for the chil- Although the weather dren of Schenectady, this event nized by a committee compiled of LouisaStephen~ofDelta Gamma. was not as cooperative as the vol- hoped to give Union students a students in various Greek houses Specific parts of the day's events unteers, many, if not aU, still en- feelingofwhatitmaybeliketohave onUnion'scampus .. Headsofthis were coordinated by different joyed the day. a little brother or sister. committee were seniors Jamie Greek organizations on camplls, \ I like[ d] the different activities Many children in the Drown, a member of Theta Delta such as the Sigma Chi-run barbe- and especially the races,\ said Schenectady area have been on a Chi, and Jamie Freilich, a member cue. Monique O'Neill. waiting list for a Big Brother or a of Sigma Delta Tau. Many other volunteers present Thai Gibson, another child, com- Big Sister for many years. One Therestofthecommitteemem- attheYouthOiympicswerernem- mother of a child who attended the bers included Elyse Topp-Poirier, bers of the Union community who Formula One Car Awarded Prize by Peter Flynn Staff Writer Have you ever considered what it would take to build a racecar by yourself? Most people think that such a task can only be accom- plished in a large fact()ry with ex- . pensive, high-tech machinery. However, over the past ten months five Union students started from scratch and designed and built. what can arguably be called the most impressive undergraduate masterpiece our college has seen. This year's FollJluia team is made up of mechanical engineers Jim Bailey, Mark Eberhardt, Jeremy Hasbrouck, Aaron Pincus and Jacob Rower. These students, along with Marti qua P'ost, Julie Seymour, Pro- fessor Wicks and the .P-incus Par- ents (all part ofthemuch-appreci- . . ate d. support crew) traveled to De- . · troit, Michigan this past week to compete in the annual Fotmula One Racing Competition sponsored by Daimler Chrysler, GM and Ford. Upon arrival in Detroit, a volun- teer steward met each team. This steward acted as a liaison and ad- visor for the team. Union's liaison was a Daimler Chrysler engineer Paul Eisenstadt whose father, Ray Eisenstadt was a founding mem- ber ofthe Union College Mechani- not find the team right away. I stopped and asked someone where I could find tile 'zebra car' and the man asked me 'You mean the one from Union?' I think we really cap- tured the atterttion uf everyone there.\ Professor Frank Wicks said Eberhardt, Rower, Pincus and Jfashouck with Daimler Chrysrer Engineer Eisenstadt and Professor Wicks. Continued on page 5 Students Acquitted by David Brooks Editor-in-Chief The Student Conduct Commit- tee found four students who were accused of hazing not guilty, sources say. The students, jun- iors Mike Cook and Adam LeBlanc, sophomore Matt Frese and an anonymous student testified in front of the committee Monday evening. The students were accused of hazing freshman Todd Beaton on Thursday, May 6, in on off cam- pus house located at 1068 Wendell Avenue. After the committee questioned the four students on Monday evening, numerous witnesses were called into the hearing to give their testimony of what happened on ,.J @ Of the 100 schools from North ·COncoruy .. _.-_·.:- · AmericaandEuropethatcompeted cal Engineering Department. about the trip, \It turned the learn- Martiqua Post, an engineer who ing process upside down. When I went along to support the team, · the night in question. The com- mittee met from 5:30PM to 10:00 thatevening. After the committee reac.hed their decision, the . VIL U:nion.edU last week, Union placed eighteenth .__ __ __,......,.....,........,......., _ _... ................. overall. said, \When I atrlved there, I could Continued on page 5 Continued on page 4

''Only those who dare to fail greatly can ever achieve greatly.'' .. -Robert F. Kennedy = V . · .·· 1 · ·. c. ·xxv' III,.N. · 15 . ·. xxrv· .tire :student Newsna-ne1'\ (J¥'-t:Jnlon CoUe'ae Since 1Bl7: -· ·.· · _,. · . : · · ._,:· ·:-. ·:· : · M. :.'. :: 27 ·· \: ·· 19 .. : 9 ~·.··. 9 · -o Uine u111 et· · , .· · -:t:: r· iF · · b · · . ·· . . . . .,.v .. ' ' ' ' I - • • ' -' ·• - • - • ' ' . ' I' ' • •' ~ ' ' ~ ' • • • ) - ' : L f- • '. ~ ,\) • ' ~~l.·. ·- .~ • ' .- : ·. · .·~- · · . . · . . ·: -. ·. _· ·' :.: h(tp:flc~ncordy • .\fmon.edu. . · . · .· .: .. ·: .·.., · .. ~ . ; · · .... :· · .. ; .. :. . . · .. :..· ·. · . _: -.. ' ••, ) < • • ' ' • • ' ' ' , ' • ' ~- • ' ' ' ' , ' ' • ~ ' ' • I' ' ~ • · , ' l '• , ) • , • ' ' ~• < ~, This We:ek News: Security Updates Page 3 Opinions: A Long Night at Ellis Hospital Page 7 World News: China Steals US Military Technology Page 10 Sports: A Look Back at this Year's Sports Page 18 Inside Campus News -3 Opinions .. 6 A & E-8 WorldNews-10 Features- 12 Tecllnology -15 Sports -17 Our E-mail concordy@ vu. union .. edu Children Compete in Youth Olympics by Mary Felton Staff Writer event on Sunday was overheard Jt;ssica Jad.son, Rob) n Polm1~k), saying her child has been on the and Julie Stapcns of Signu Delta wait-list for a \Big\ f<Jr four years. Tau, Marc Grozalsky and Steve Hopefully The Youth Olympics Tountas of Theta Ddta Chi, Jon In an attempt to encourage stu- gave some students the desire to Lemle of Phi Gamma Delta, Andy dent involvement on Unio11'scam- have a little brother <Jr sister next Donohue of Sigma Chi, Katie pus and also promote 1he Big year. Zipser of Delta Delta Delta, Jen !Jad a little brother or sister, ur members ofth~ Scht:th:dad) .:om- munity who wished to come and help out. Many volunteers arri\ cd at 9 AM to help set up for the ac- tivities which were to ensue. The children who did attend Brothers/Big Sister program, the This event was primarily orga- Brate of Gamma Phi Beta and Youth Olympics on Sunday were seventh annual Yout~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ced with a wide choice Olympics was held this past of activities. A basketball Sunday, May23, on Bailey · net was set up on the track Field. . for those who wished to Roughly eighty-five kids shoot hoops. There VI-as a from the Schenectady are~ popcorn machine where with an ages ranging from the kids could get snacks. six to fourteen showed UiJ ant! a t it:-dying station at 10:30AM on Sunday br where their brand-new a day full of fun and games white Youth Olympic tee despite the imminent bad shirts were quickly trans- weather. fi.wmed into colorfulma~- The majority of the chi!- terpieces. dren taking part in the ac- ,\ ~niL'-.. ur g,JilJL':> \\l'fl' tivitie~ came through the or:;.tn:/.:J fllr thl· k:d·. <\1 Big Rrothcrs 1 Big. Sisters or- the tml .\lllllll:C the 'l' ganizat ion in the area. 111 \\ n~: a sponge toss, ··~Uit ordertoatte111d Youth Olym- up·· (an: Ia) race whid1 in- pies, children in the area volves changing clothes), were sent invitations and \shoe switch,\ a balloon permission slips. Chifd1·en from the Big Brother/Big Sister progr~:;,r relay, bobbing for donuts, In addition to providing games at this year's annual Youth Olympics. and a potato sack race. entertainment for the chi!- Although the weather dren of Schenectady, this event nized b:y a committee C<Jmpiled of Louisa Stephen: <JfDelta Gamma. was not as cooperatiH: as the vol- hoped to give Union stLidents a students in various Greek houses Specific parts of the day's: events unteers, many, if not all, still t!n- feelingofwhatitmay beliketohave on Unior1's campus. Heads ofthis were coordinated by different joyed the day. a little brother or sister. committee were seniors Jamie Greek organizations on campus, \I like[ d] the different activities Many children in the Drown. a member of Theta Delta such as the Sigma Chi-run barbe- and especially the races,\ said Schenectady area have been on a Chi, and Jamie Freilich. a member cue. MoniqueO\Neill. waiting I ist for a Big Brother or a of Sigma Delta Tau. Man) other \Oiunh:ers present Thai Gibson, another child, com- Big Sister for many years. One The rest of the com m ittcc rnt.:m- at the Youth OI)I11pics \\ere mcm- mother of a child who attemkd the bers included Elyse Topp-Poirier, bcrs ofthe Uniotl community vdw ------------------------------------------------------ Formula One Car Awarded Prize by Peter Flynn Staff Writer Have you ever considered what it would take to build a racecar by yourself? Most people tllink that such a task can only be accom- plished in a large factor) 'lith ex- pensive, high-tech machinery. However, O>ver the past tell months fiH· l 'nk'r. <;tudcnt\ \t:111cd ft·<'m '.cralch ;tnd dc'->igrll·d :tthl huilt \hat c;m argua\-'11: he ctllcll thL' most impressive underg,raduate masterpiece our coil cgc h a<; <;ccrL ·nti~_:c·,u·, l'onnul.ttl'.ltll i\ lli,tdc up of lllt:chanical L'ngint:a., Jim B,tik), \brJ.. Eh~:rh,tn.Jt. kr~o·rn) ll:l,rrPilck \:1n'rl Pi nell' .. 1111l l.tc 1 'I' Rr>\\ L'l lliL'\l' ,liJdcnt' . .tltlllC:. \1 Jill \1.trtiqtLtl\,,t. .hliiL''-'L'IIlll 'ill. J'n,- IL':-:-.ul W 1\.ks .tnd tiH l'ttH..lJ:-. 1\u- L'Ilh tall part of th~: IIHhl~-<tpfH CL i- ated support crew) traveled to De- troit, Michagan this past ·week to compete in the annual Formula One Racing Competition sponsnrcd b) n;limlerrhry<>ler (I,M ~nd Ford or th~ 100 sdllHll) frl•t11 North AmL\rica and [uwp.: that lL'Illpded Ia\! \\ed. l inion plautl ci~l11l'cnth overall. l.Jponarrival in Detroit, a volun- teer steward met each team. This steward acted as a liaison and ad- visor f()r the team. Union's liaison was a Daimler Chrysler engineer Paul Eisenstadt whose father, Ray Eisenstadt was a founding mem- ber ofthc l.Jnion College Mcchani- not find the team right a\.vay. I stopped and a::;k~J someone where I could find the 'zebra car' and the man asked me \You mean tl1e one from Union?' I tl1ink we really cap- tured the attention of everyone there.\ Professor Frank Wick.' ~aid esy Ehcrhardt, Rower. Pincus and Hashnuck with Daimler ( 'hrysla Enxinl.!a t.'iscnsladt and l'ro{t'.\.wr Wid<.\ '-•'1 rn~; inco.:ring Dcp<trtnll:nt. \tnt itill.t Pu:-.t, .tnL·ngin~:n '' hl' \\Cilt a1ung tll '>liJlpnrt the IL'am, said, \When I arrived thcrc,l could db11ut the trip, ''It t.urnl·d tho.: kdlll- ing, pr PtL''\ up\iLk ,h)\\ 11 '\\ 11L'Il I ( 'ontinufPcl on page 5 Omtiflued 011 page S Students Acquitted by Da,·id Brooks Editor-in-( 'hicf The Student Conduct Commit- tee found four students \\ho \\.Crt' ~lC'C'll~t'd !'f ~~·1 Jl';, .. ~, ,l,t ~.,,;lf~ '-'<'lii'L'L'' ,,\\ Thl' ,(t~<knt, i•t:~ jpr-, '\1iLL· (\,,,]... .l:hl \,J.t!l11 d~ 1 .\!1, sophnrnorc Mat! Frc..,e and an ;111<'111 tll()lJ', ~tl!<k11! 1l'~tifil·J jn t ': \ \ ! ; ~ \ I! • ! l: \. 1.. '' l : : ~ ' '-' '- '\ • • ' ' I ! : l'\ L'l1111 !' Thl' ,p~tknt--. \''t' .tlltt,,·,l ,,• I !; Ill '!.I . \1 ! '' j'll'--li>•ii''' •• , t: ... ! .t:: I(,:-;\\ .• t,· \\ L'J11il' .\111...'1 tJ\l' .. ~·:I 11~1:.\l'-.. •jln. •il 1 i1, 1; thL· !·,,·Ill ,flt<ktil' <>ll \L•;·,:.I.' evening, numerous witncssl'S 1\L't\' called int<' tht• 11.l'aring tn giw tlwir testimony of what happened on the 111~111 Ill lJIH''>IIIlll 1 h,· (l\111· mittel' 111L'I fn)lll\ \IJ P\1 to Ill tlll th,lt L'\t'llill~ \fkt t\iL < <lllll1'ilk< !L',l'-hlll tltL'il Jl < j .. ;,,,. tl' < ·ontiflllt'tloll paJ.:t' 4

ampl.Xs··Lif'e Page 2 • May 27, _1999 • '<!Inncnrbi.eusis Security Incident Report Sunday, May 16, 1999: Alcohol Violation Unauthorized Entry Mischievous Behavior FireAlann Trespass Trespass Reckless Endangerment Suspicious Person Monday~May17, 1999: Criminal Mischief Fire Criminal Mischief Suspicious Person Trespass Suspicious Person Criminal Mischief Harassment Tuesday, May 18,1999: Safety Hazard Criminal Mischief Fire Alarm Larceny Larceny Larceny Criminal Mischief Harassment Wednesday, May 19,1999: Fire Alarm Larceny Larceny Parking Violation Trespass Thursday, May 20, 1999: Trespass/ Arrest Criminal Mischief Friday, May 21, 1999: Trespass Trespass Criminal Mischief Saturday,May22, 1999: Life Safety Violation Criminal Mischief Trespass 1:15am HuntleyLaae. Visitor advised ofopencontainer violation. 4:31am AD Phi. Student attempting to climb thru windcw. Identified. Conduct Charges :filed. 2: l4am. Student breaking beer bottles in roadway. ldent i tied and Conduct Charges .filed. 5:32am West College. Conduct Charges filed for failure to evacuate and failure to comply. ll :49arn West College area Non student advised of private property status. 5:37pm S&E. Two non students advised ofprivate property status. 9:00am Erratic Driving. Driver identified and advised. 11 :57pm Off Campus Unable to locate or identify. 1 :04am West College. Ceiling tile vandalized, 2:48am Davidson Hall. Bulletin board set on fire. No injuries and no damage noted. 12: 15pm Off Campus Privacy fence vandalized. 3:59pm Silliman Hall Suspiciousyouthinbuilding. Unable to locate or identify. 4:17pm Off Campus Boat House. Youths advised ofprivate property status. 4:53pm South Lane. Suspicious person .. Unable to locate or identify. 5:34pm Fox Hall. Wall thermostat vandalizea. 9:15pm West College area. Non student domestic dispute. Advised II :48am Psi Upsilon. Natural Gas leak Facilities called in tC> correct the problem. 9:1Oam Richmond. Vending machine vandalized. I 0:5 Sam Edwards House. Cause from dirty detector. 11 :40am Bailey Hall. Theft of computer parts. 2:07pm Phi Sigma Kappa. Theft of Housekeeping vacuum. 5:31pm Old Chapel. Contents of wallet. 7:57pm Off Campus. Broken windo~s. 8:04pm Off Campus Property owner dispute. Conduct Charges filed. \' I :33am Sigma Chi. Cause from lighted candles. Life Safety Violation issued. 2:25am West College. Theft from vending machine. Suspects identified. Conduct Charg-es filed. 8:30am OffCampus. Theft of stained glass window. I 0:45am West College. Altered parking permit. Conduct Charges filed. 4:08pm Huntley Lane. Non student advised of private prop erty status. I 2:50am Bailey Field. Non student arrested fortresp2ss. 7:25pm Nott Seward lot. Damage to vehicle. 12pm West College area. Non Student advised of private property status. I :05pm Fox area. Non student advised of private property status. II :58pm Fox Hall. Broken window. !2:06am Phi Gamma Delta. Rootnsmokedetector removed. Life Safety Violation issued. 7: 15arn Campus. Damage to Security vehicle. 12:59pm Jackson Garden's. Non students advis.ed ofprivate · Announ:eenieit·t.s Party in the Garden . Friday Night~a>t 9 PM Come party with the DJ, foo~ and flowers! Tickets are.$5 cash or declining balance. Purchase in Campus Center today or tomorrow. Did You Know??? The Nott Memorial won \Best lnd.oor Lo(!~tion to ~ontemplate tbe Meaning of Life\ in the Times Union's \Best of the Capitol Region\ Poll Union College Spring Scramble Golf Tournament Sunday, May 30 at Van Patten Golf Club · 4 Teams Left!-!! Send Questions to rayntonde@union.edu Do you want to go to a Yankee's Game June4? Buy your ra·ftle tickets in the Campus Center for $2 a piece. Profits from the Theta Delta Chi philanthropy benefit theN orth Side Little League Theta Delata ChJ and Delta Delta Delta present Rent-A-Greek TONIGHT at Chet's 9PM, Check out the New Concordiensis Webpage! Visit http://concordy. union.edu for the latest look.j:qJo campus and world news, opinions, sports and features. Tertn in Washington, Spring 2000 The Political Science Department announces applications for next year's Washington Congres- sionallllternship pro2ram. Applications due Frid~y, -!u_ll~ 4by4:00 PM Ushers Needed for Conimencemeri.t · 1999 See D()nna Johndrow in the Students Activities Office, Reamer Campus Center Room 408 ~~~~~~~~~~~-~~s-~_s·~~~~~~~~ReturnofthePersonalAds!! Weekly Student Forum Notes . E-mail your comments, thanks, annonymous secre1 love letters ... anything goes. concordy@vu. union.edu May20, 1999 Order: 7:20pm Absent: Bennett, Montas,Barry, Markowski, Okeefe, Casola OFFICER REPORTS Finance-Parisi: nothing. Administration-Lynch: inter- views for committees held Tues, Wed, Thurs of9th week. Campus Life-Roache: Thanks with Spring Fest. Ice cream social this Friday, May 21st. Party in the Garden next Friday, May 28th. Help needed from I 0 am- 6 J>m. Trustees-Zandman; Class Elec- tions this Friday, May 21st. l 0 am- 4pm. IFC-McKinney: Greek Week tshirts and mugs available. Pan-hel-Caruso: Woman's rush schedule changes. Details next week. THC-Eietz: THC elections: Mel- issa Sullivan: President Ed Lollier: Public Relations Amisha Parik: Secretary Justine Willey: Treasurer Seniors-Chaplin: Senior surveys need to be completed to get tick- ets for rain date of commencement, table for surveys in CC:Tuesday- Friday 1 0-2. Senior dinner a suc- cess. Wed night of Senior Week: Booze Cruz with kereoke. Great Escape most likely Friday of Senior Week. lOth week fonnal night at Holiday Inn .. Thursday of senior week: color war on campus. Juniors-Wir~n: Wednesdayoffi- nals week: jump into senior year 1------------------------------ party with activities. Sophomor.es-Aloan: Barbq Tuesday nigh1, May 25th. Live entertai\nmen1 in Mrs. Perkin's gardens. Freshmen-110 one in attendance. NEW BUSINESS UMMED-Lash: Researcllecf other schools, and perfected Union's level of care to incl11de weekends. Need more money for more care. Now recognized as NY State agency. Most clubs at oth.er schools with same title are still funded by sttident activities. RobertAv()n Smith Summer Research Fellow- ship in Bio-Medical Engineering .at Union College The fellowship is sponsored by Robert Avon Smith, Class of 1952. It is awarded to students in tll.e sciehces or engi- neering who participate in a summer researclt program in bio-medical engineering under the guidance of Union College faculty. The award will be made available to a student selected 011 tit~ basis of ability to conduct independe~~:t research in bio- medical engineering and commitment to the summer research program. Students inter(!sted slwuld contact Professor J. Ricltard Shanehrook in tlte Department of Medtanical Engineering~ I ( s I

Campus News Ice Cream Party • Schaffer Library Dedication great audience for MitcheH and , by Clare Canal Contributing Writf;r Borer, acting zealously and chives, or on the Internet. .. [the tion e·fllicw the donors were tQ be enthusiasticly. by Gina Campanella library] is the core.\ honor.ed, President Hullrecognized Whether it was the music, the Sta.f/Writer F()llowing Mr. Chapnick was ·some o0ffthe most prominent ofthat For most pe<Jple, ice cream is a food, or both, Mrs. Perkins' Gar- The:rese McCarty,. tile Chair of the group. :Scrne of the new features of popular defining feature of tlte den drew an eclectic crowd rang- , · This. past Saturday, the atrium FacultyExecutiveCommittee. She the library were ~lso mentioned in qu·ickly approaching summer ing from island dwellers in grass ofth.e New Schaffer Library was expressed the gratitude of·the fac- thepF'l§r:ameach attendee received season. This satisfying summer skirts to passing alumni in suits. packed with alumni eager to see ulty for such and ·inviting space on the ...vay in. These features in- sweet was celebra~ed in style this When asked what brought him : whattheir generous donations had for th.e students to work. elude: Ci\pacityto store 750,000 val- past Friday nigh.t at the Ice-cream down to Old Chapel, junior Adam : made possible. What they saw is f()r the alternate side, Beth umes, 41!!J0seatsavailable in the form Social in Mrs. Perkins' Garden. Murphy replied, ''Well I just came •. what many Union students have Wierzbieniec, merrtberoftheclass of tab le=s, lounge chairs and study With live music and enough. top- · to play pool and foose ball... Wow! ' come to know and love as a \home of 1999 and President of the Stu- cai.Tels,.rtlte Writing Center, the Lao- pings for any ice creain fanatic, th.e There is ice cream, this is my lucky : away from home,\ the newly n;de- dent Forum, made many com pari- guage Laboratory, the Preservation frozen yogurt machine in Dutch night!\ signed and renovated Schaffer Li- sons between the new .Schaffer li- and Digjtal lmaging laboratory., ten Hollow definitely couldn't com- Some people just couldn't get : brary. brary and the old one. She ex- group stu·dy rooms and Internet and pete.. enough, and could be found going · A briefhistory of the library bet- pressed gratitude for the bright, elet::tr::o~ic database access. The event, organized by the Pro- back for seconds and even thirds. ter illustrates its new renovations. ope:n study areas and the increase In addfiti•on to these features, the gram Assistants ofStudent Activi- Others went back to reload on top· In the early days. of Union Col~ in cumputer terminals f<Jr Internet benefac\tors' names that can be seen ties, created lines that started eady pings when they ran low. An hour · lege, many of tl:le books were and book searches. in 'VariotUsplaces in the library were and ended late. The spread con- and a half after the start of the : housed in various r.ooms in differ- It was also mentioned by Dean listed. Pethaps the most commonly sisted of various ice cream flavors event, the line e<>uld still be seen ' · ent buildings on campus. Even- of Faculty Linda E. Coolthat the recog11i:zablenames among the stu- and an abundance of toppings. out the door of 0 ld Chapel. Junior : tually, in 1936, the Nott Memorial new study space was so well used dent bo dy are the Philip R. Beuth The flavors were raspbeny.fro- Mindy Cohen admitted, \It was so was redesigned to serve as the that the students even requested, Atriurnl:lmE the Robert F. Cummings, zen yogurt for all of the low-fat good I had to have two!\ official campus library. However, and received, exte11dedhours. Jr. circUllation desk. fans, chocolate chip for the daring, The popularity of the event drew it did not serve this purpose well In addition to the various greet- The nibrary festivities also in- and of course, classic vanilla, for from neighboring parties, which and in 1961 it was decided that a ·ing:s, remarks were given by cluded;anartexhibit on the second the traditionalist. contributed, to the crowds. \I can't library would be built. The con- Norton H. Reamer of ''campus floor_ The Sogets u Schoo 1 of Toppings included chocolate believe the crowd, all I wanted was struction of the original Schaffer ce11ter\ fame, a graduate of the Jkeba11a !Presented fifteen different syrup, strawberries, chocolate· some 1ce cream,\ stated sophomore library began. class of 1958. He described the flowe:r arrangements that anyone chipcookiecn.un.bles, mini M&M's, Katie Comerford. A lot ofthe visi- On the beautifu I Saturday after- meth<ld that Union College used collld go. Lcok at. The school spe- wh ipped cream, caramel and tors from Fiji lingered around in- noon, the crowd gathered inside to t~ank the many donors. It was cializ.es;. iin the artistry of plant life chocolate andrainbow sprinkles/ stead of venturing back to the Is- · the:SchafferLibrary. Afterashort decided that Schaffer's name and the: display was definitely one jimmies. As sophomore Mary land. greeting by Unio11 College Presi- woul<l remain on the outside of not to be: missed. Connair put it, \Yummy! Scoop- Junior Mike Winn, who helped dent Roger H .. Hull, The Chairman the 'building, however, new do- Thfis pa!itSaturday afternoon, the Scoop ba bye.\ organize the event along with of the Board ofTrus.tees offered nor5 would be honored on the in- library may not have been the most The red checkered table-clothed sophomore Erin A loan, commented his greetings to the crowd. side library walls. studim~ ;pface to be; however, it was tables ofOld Chapel gave apicnic on this phenomenon. \Maybe fra- David B. Chapnick is a member Reamer explained that the New definiitelyrnore crowded than usual. setting to the sumptuous feast. ternities should start to have soft of the class of 1959 and was very Scluffer Library \preserves the The lib~:nuyrenovation is described For those who ventured outside serve ice cream on tap. This could pleased with the resu Its of the best ()[the past while embracing as \a spacious structure designed into the warm summery evening, start an amazing trend. If you over project. He told the audience, the new.\ to carrrS' Union well into the next talented musicians Brian Mitchell consume, the worst problem yoa \Whether it is in books, in the ar- Directly following the explana- ce11tu rr.'' andS~veBMerprovhledilie~- would run imowouWbe an ice~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tertainment.. creamheadache.\ OurfutureStu- Imp.· rovem. ·. ents for S~e.c.u.ri.ty .. They played from an assortment . dent Forum president could be 011 of artists including Phish, Dave to something. Mathews and Joe Cocker as well Overall, the evening was a sue- as some original compositions. cess and provided a treat for all The crowd, on a sugar high, was a that came. ·New Sorof.!2:.!!!!!!!,. by Jessi~a Zuehlke News Editor week of winter term. Seventh week. ofthe same tennwill include three riights (Monday, Wednesday and Winter term ·brings te>.the cam- Thursday). of informal open- pus cold we~ther, nostalgi~ from houses hosted by Delta Delta the long break and usu<:tlly Gr~~k Delta,. Gamma Phi Beta and Delta Rush. Next year, thin·~ wiil .run·· Gamma. E~ch house wiH be open slightly differently. two out of the three nights. for one 1'he executive board of the hour. Panhellenic Council recently an- Rush registration will be in eighth nounced their decision to reform week and Rho Chi's will be given Sorority Rush. during the following week. Last winter term, Dean Alford Formal Rush will be for one week suggested that Panhel change cur- starting the first day of classes in rent Sorority Rush. On the advice the spring term. Panhel feltthatthis of Dean Alford 1 the executive was a good time for Rush because board met through winter and work load was nonnally low at the spring terms to formulate the new beginning of the term. Bids will be plan. given out Saturday of week one, The plan was finalized last week on April 1. and voted on by all of Panhel on This tentative schedule allows Tuesday. Members from each for a six-week pledging perio<l house sit on Panhel and voted on which is the time required by all the behalf oftheir house. sorority Nationals. One main goal oftheprojectwas Vice President of Panhel Jen to demonstrate to the faculty and Caruso commented, \By shortefl- administration that Panhel is will- ing the pledge period, we are catch- ing to change and work coopera- ing up with th:e current trend in tively with them to maintain and Greeks all around the country. This improve the Greek system. They is especially important because of also strive to improve relations the quickly approaching new mil- during the Rush period as the pro- lennium .. .l think it is a wonderful posed plan will be during a less idea.\ academically stressful time. A letter presented to each soror- Other goals of Panhel include ity by Panhel stated the purpose of easing the transition into Sopho- the new schedule. \Since the en- more Rush as well as shortening tire Rush process is under pressure \new member\ periods. from the U2K ... we found thatth is The new tentative schedule was upcoming transition year before finalized last Tuesday with the first Sophomore Rush seemed appropri- by Kate Scllmidt StqjfWriter System.\ mated iParking Management Sys- Tomackcommented, \This ba- tern\ rrnllfa!ls that fewer officers will sicEtlfy means wewil111owbe giv- beon1ic~etpatrol. Out ofthe offic- ing out electronic tickets as op- ers that will not be handling ticket- Although the scltool year is posed to tickets hand-written by ing, Otnt;;! will be set aside for stu- winding down in anticipation for Campus Safety themselves. The de11ts' n.eeds. \Thisofficerwillr<Jam summer, campus safety is just offLcer will scan the registration the carnp11s checking for kids in starting up with new programs for sticker on the car and it will then need ofassistance. He/she will be our next term back Security's first be :Sent to our home base com- preparreld with a lock out kit, parking addition for next fall, the Silent puter. All of st11dents' registra- maps~ jrurnper cables, and a repair Witness Program, has just re- ,_,.......---------~---...,kit feir flat tires,\ said Tomeck. cently been putin effect. \This o~\licer will !;w11e11 asked if the officer would The Silent Witness Program :J.J., :be ecau ipped to handle winter was created in order to preserve roam the campus COtntd1t!i()nS, Tomeck replied, the confidentiality ofthe student ;\Th;att i:s something worth l()ok- body. According to Director of checking for kidS . ingntJto.\ Security Bob Tomeck, ilie program A..s many students and faculty allOWS students who wish tore- in need ofassis- • haVt;;!UlO!iced, the campus chains port a crime to do so \without • hllv>e been kept up this term. worrying about getting caught.\ tance. He/She wzll . They willremainupinthefallas Tomack continued, \Many stu- be prenared With a • w~ll,~'dlletorecklessdrivingand dents don't feel comfortable re-. :r ' speeding.\ When asked if speed porting a crime, either because lock and kit, park- ' bumps could replace the cltains, they know the person involved, :.the r·esponse was \bumps are orbecausetheydon'twanttoget ing maps, jumper : onl~ obstacles th.at can lead to involved themselve5. This is a ! ftuther recklessness and acci- good way to cut down on cam- CableS and Q repair ; dents. By leaving the chains up, pus crime, while at the same time : we al'e only looking out for the preserving students\ privacy.\ kit for flat tires. \ . gell.leral safety of the campus.\ If you wish to report a crime fl'.ny student interested in yClU can make a call to the silent dl'i)Aii.ngcollege vans are encour- witness phone line and your call tion information will appear: their aged by :Security to contact Bob will not be traced. The number for license number, car make, year of Tom:ac:k orE ill Sickinger. off campus callers is388-8399 and r~gi:stration, previous tkkets and Se-curity would like to wish stu- x8399 for students living within pal'king violations. This program dents ;a safe and healthy summer. the gates. will take the human error out of The n'e\' safety additions taking Along with the Silent Witness the previous ticketing system and silap·e aJ the end of this year will Program, Security is adding an w.rll be more costeffective.\ lead to a promising and very safe \AutomatedParkingManagement The addition of this \Auto- fall ate to introduce a new Rush de- sign. Our attempts as a Greek sys- tem to show cooperation (but not passive accepta.nce) will be well received by faculty and adminis- tration.\ Caruso added, \The women's Greek system is taking a proac- ti:Ye role in the initiatives of the U2K committee.\ The supportive nature of every S()rority is needed to make this new design a success. Accord- ing to Panhel, it was necessary to conjure up some new ideas to re- forrll Greek system in a way that will beneflit both Greeks and the adm in- istratilm. Tbe= plan is active immediately and -w ill be for the 1999-200() year. Pan11e:l h,opes for success.

L~atino Festival Takes to the Streets H..azing Charges by Jessica Zuehlke News Editor This past Saturday, the weather wa~ g~rgeous and the Latin music was pumping .. Phi Iota Alpha spon- sored tile second a.nmnl Latino Festival in Hamilton HiU. This year, tne fraternity decided to \take it to the streets, .. to show residents that they can host safe and fun events ill their own community,\ said Davi~Torres, Vice President of Phi I eta Alpha. the Festival was held on the comer <JfCraig and Emmet streets in Hamilton Hill and lasted from I to6:30 PM. Thethoeme to the lively gala was \Siemprese puede mas'~ (You Can A:lways. Do More). Tile festival was geare:d towards Latinos, but in no rneans was meant only for these individuals. All residents of Sche11ecta.dy and the Union com- munity were encourage<l to attend. The tlleme was developed. to hringattention to Latinos, an un- der-represented and underpriv i- leg;ed~~rollp of people. Mario Cruz, one ef the coordinat~rs of the Latin() Fe;gtival commented, \The theme 'Siempre se puede mas' stresses that complacency is not acceptable. There is always more that 'We ~sa people can do to em- power ourselves and future gen- erati <Jns . \ The clay of culture and fun in- clude<lmany free activities: Food, drinks, games and face painting were a'Vailablerto all, alongwith free photos with Simba fre>mthe Lion Kfng. Union DJ Jose Vargas from ships between stude11ts and WRUC provided hours of upbeat Schenectady residents are few and Latino music. The day even of- far between. \While Union is mak- fered a salsa and merengue con- ing efftlrts to try and revitalize test fol' both children and adults. Schenectady, the relationship be- Cruz :>1ated, \It was really cute to tween Union and Hamilton Hill .is see twelve kid couples.dancing me- pretty bad,\ Cruz. commented. rengue!\ \When I spoke to a resident of Later in the day, Assistant Ch·ief Schenectady about the .relation- PardifromtheSchenectadyPolice ship he said, 'There is none.\' Oepatttrtentarrived on a brand. new Another reason for having the;: HarleyDavidsonpolicemotoFcycle event in Hamilton Hill was to bring to han<! outjunior.r-----------__,,......_ __ ....... .....,\fun\ events to deputy stickers · that neighbor- and S(leak to all \We wanted to . hood. Accord- ages about pre- . ing to Cruz, al:l ventill.g; crime in. show [the people . ofthese school- the city. Pardi s p o n s ore d evengot his own who live in 'events are either pictur,e with u .. 1 T_I•l/ Simbato remem- natnliOn nl 'j on campus or scheduled in berth~ festival. that it is possible A Is() at the . nicer neighbor- hoods. \We wanted to show [thepeople who live on Hamilton event were mem- bers ()f Union's National Society of Black Engi- neers_ These in- dividuals do- to have fun and safe events where they live.\ · Hill] that it is . possible to have fun and natecl their timeL..-------------'safe events by helping the residents of Schenectady register to vote. Cr:uz: expressed the reason f<Jr havillg; the fair in Schenectady rather than on Union's campus. \Ma11y of our [Phi Iota Aapha] brothers came from New York City~ from neighborhoods similar to Hamilton Hill. Since New Yorl< City is to~ far away, this is our <:hance to give back to our people.\ Even though Union)s ta!<ing· steps towards uniting .the cbJJege and the city, individual relation- where they live.\ Attendance was slightly lower at this year's festival than last year's. Cruz pointed out that this decline in participants can be at- tributed to multiple other events taking place on the same weekend. The Niska community fair, ReUnion alumni weekend, Festival ofNations, and Union Youth Olym- pics all were;! scheduled at the same time. -'Eve~ though these events. coincidedwiththe Latin.o .Festival, they did not take away from the festive,environment. Last. year there were 150 Schenectady residents and 50 UnionCollegestudents. This year, over I i!O residents of Schenectady showecl up along with 20 Union students and Professor Weisse and her family. Dismissed ... continued from pagel The Phi Iota Alpha fraternity . committee's report was typed and wouldUketo thank The Pre-Health . sent to Dean Alford for his ap- Socie.ty, Sigma Iota Alpha soror- proval. Because the committee ity, WRUC and the President's of- · acquitted the students,. Dean fice for all their help in making such Alford could not overturn the rut- a wond·erfulevent possible. Other · ing, however, had the students groups that contributed include been found guilty, Dean Alford Alpha Phi Alpha, the Academic could have reviewed the case and Opportunity Program,Alpha Epsi, established his own punishment, Ion ?i, the Biology Club, Circulo The submitted decision to Dean Estudiantil Latino Americano, Alford was not available at the time Dean ~!ford, the Womyn's Union, of print, but sources say that the NSBE, COCOA Hcmse and Public committee found the students not Relati()ns. guilty of the charges. Dean Alford Erik Espana, President of the could not comment on the situa- ETA ChapterofPhi Iota Alpha Fra- tion until he had the final report. ternity Inc,, added, \The Latino According to sources, the .com .. Festi\(<tlhelpsto bridge the gap that mittee did not have sufficient evi- exists between the Schenectady dence to prove that the students residents and the Union College had hazed Beaton. The students community. [t also gave students were accused offorcing Beaton to a chance to serve as role models to drink as well as shooting firecrack- childr~ll who live in Hamilton Hill.\ ers at him. However, when the po- Tilis valuable interaction be- lic.e searched the premises of.the tweenstudents and inner-city chi I- house, no alcohol or spent fire- dren wHI hopefully encourage works were found. thesec:hildren toeventually incor- Although all four students are porat~ co liege into their future cleared of college charges, Cook plans. and Frese still face criminal Tile event illustrates the posi- charges. The t\vo will be arraigned tive aspects that can be attained separately later this month. throug;h a college degree. Charges were apparently going to . The event was a huge success be dropped in their initial court and~ill continue to strengthen tbe appearance, but sources claim that boiJ,cls between Scheneqtady and.. Union Coll~ge P,ressured the Dis~ .. Union College formanymoreyears. . trict Attorney's office into pros- -----------------------------------------------------1 ecuting the two students'. How- ReUnion Weekend B~rings Many Alumni Back . ever, after two separate suites were going to press charges against tile College concerning this case,. Union has let up. pressure on the DA's office, sources close to the situation say. by Lisa Carbone StaffWritet It is ().ften said that college is the best follr years of ones life. This experie11ce is much more than merely an academic pursuit. Col- lege rears are filled with social ad- ventures,. personal endeavors and remarl<al>le memories·that are never forg()tten. Anyone strolling arotJn<l .campus this weekend prob• Jtbly O'Verheard the dozens of al urnni who returned for ReUnion Week_eEld reminiscing about such memoral>le times. Aillmlli of aU classes and ages are in'Vited to the traditional event, ReUndoll Weekend, held annually at Undo11 College. They are not only e!'lcouraged to meet up with frie11ds and classmates upon re- tumio~; to the campus, but also to bring their children a:long. Tballk.s to the beautiful sunny weather th~s year, with tempera- tures ill the mid-seventies, alumni were able to explore allthe new and excitin,g dimensions the campus has to offer. A group of friends frorn the class of 1 989 commented that they were impressed by the Olin <:<enter and the renovated li- brary, 11nd especially amazed by the arno11ntoftechnology available to students within these buildings. One vvoman added, \I can't believe how fli.5t things change. I wonder what things will be lilce here when my 2 :Y\ear old son is looking at sch<lol:s.~' Th.ere were tours of the Olin Center as well as campus tours thro~ghout the weekend. To make the tour possible or simply easier for sume, many campus touTs left from Chester Arthur Courtyard on small vehicles. This proved to be very popular idea as many alumni certainly took advantage of the transj>ortation on such hOot and steamy weekend afternoons. ReUnion Weekend is very popu- lar a11d anticipated by many stu- dents as well as alumni. Accord- ing to.Alison Brust of Alumni rela- tions; \1 ,300 alumni and family meml>ers have replied that they plan t<l attend this year, and we exp~:et to see around 1 ,600.\ Ev- ery year the 5th through the 75th re- uniolls are held, \This year, we are prou<l to have one man attending who graduated with the class of I 924-\ added Brust. For the endless alumni who poured in on Friday, there were a seri.es of scheduled events p lan11ed for them and their families. Sucll events included campus tours, a historical tour of the Nott Meooorial, a resume writing work- shop, and a seminar on the Internet andthe World Wide Web at Union. Also on campus this weekend was a fiftieth ReUnion Class Medallion Ceremony and Induction into the Gamet Guard, Minerva's Foot Race arot~nd campus, and The Exhibit of Sogctsu School of Ikebana - the art ..of Japanese flower arranging, held in the Schaffer Library. 1lle event that really kicked off the weekend was the Lobster/ Clambake and Chicken Cookout in Jackson's Garden. Alldasses, in- cluding current Union students were welcome. Lobsters were available to the students for $7 and clams for $3. Students, ·fi'iends, and family lounged and dined in the garden while listening to music from alive band. Brust referred to this as \a very special event, be- cause it provides Union students with the opportunity to mix and mingle with alumni.\ The evening events included the GMI Graduate Cocktail Reception, and Upon the Crooked Bridge, an original composition by Kim Kilby, class of2000, based on traditional Chinese music. Furthermore, the Cabaret was open to any alumni who wished to attend; and the sold out play was arguably the hit of the weekend. With Saturday came the ReUnion class photographs, and the ReUnion Parade, in which each class wore tee shirts displaying their class' theme. The Classofl984 proudly displayed \SKELLAR- RA TSl' across their chest. Directly following the parade was the Alumni Convocation held at Memorial Chapel. This was a brief presentation of Alumni Gold Medals, the Faculty Meritorious Service Award, and parade tro- phies to winning classes. The Con- vocation also perpetuated Union tradition, as the Class of 1949 (Fif- tieth ReUnion) grandly shook hands with the graduating senior class, ()fficially welcominglh'em as alumni. Preceeding this event was the Chimes Concert by Peter K. Smith '70, in. Memorial Chapel'. Later Sat- urday afternoon many attended the Schaffer L-ibrary Dedication. Altllollgh dinner schedules varied on Saturday night, .everyone gath- en~d, subsequently; in the Nott Memorial to hear the exhilarating soun(fs ofthe Union College Jazz · Ense1t1b le. To m~ke things easier for par- ents, many eve.nts were held to appe11se children. The Alumni Gyii111asium and pool were open all weekend. Otl Friday night, the Memorial Fieldhouse hosted a Disney movie night for Children. After partici- pating in the morning parade on Saturday, numerous children at .. tended the l(i ds Carnival held dur- ing the course of the afternaon. Juni()or ReUnion for children of . alurn1:1i was also held on Saturday night from 6-11 PM. Every ope Good· Luck on Their Final Exams. \\lith the wide variety of events that ()oCcur and the incredible tum- outs,. it is no wonder that ReUnion Weekend is consistently a suc- cess. Mllny events are traditional, yet, all events ar.e reviewed yearly by the A Jumni Council Committee to determine which should be contin- ued. ReUnion Weekendprovedto be a memorable weekend, as all Union weekends are. Union defi- nitely knows how to put on quite a sh~w-! HAVE A GREAT ·sUMMER! c I tlo' No jpiJ leg me wh thl ,Pfl :Sc inl ,pa n hi I 0 ·m· at p~ ot th th St< su th th VI rr 0 fl ~ il b 0 \ I s l

··- .. bySbaun Montana StaffWriter Four years and college life has flown by for Union's Class.of 1999. Wot too long from now, they will join the lofty ranks of Union Col- lege graduates. The question fore- most on all thek minds is probably: where did four years go? Tlte fall of 1 1 995 found the Nott renovations C()mplete (except for the Foil's of sod and grass that could be found surrounding it, to cover up dirt), and the arrival of the biggest freshmen class up to that point. Their orientation took .three days, but didn't involve ally kind of community service. The Olin Building didn't exist in thought or on paper, and the 1<1()1 proadly stood on a hill in front of Science and Engineering overlook- ing the College Center constantly packed with cars. Now zoom ah:ead to the present. The Idol now proudly stands on a hill in front of Achilles Rink. 'Jhe College Center c·irCie is now a brick walkway, and only four fifteen- minute p'aFking spaces exist in the oval-shaped road next to the Olin Building. President Hull s1:1mmed it up best at the Al-umni Convocation 11lis past Saturday when he, among other things, formally welcomed the -senior class into the ranks .of the alumni. HuUto]d a story of an alum wbo stopped in his office over th·is past summer, and praised everything that was going on, all the changes that were being made, and how wonderful he thought it all. S<>meseniors are now anxio11sly awaiting graduation, ready to move on and go out into the real world. Others might just ~s soon put the real world off for a little while. Bailey WiDner Announced In the last few weeks, the class has been bombarded with remind- · ers th;at graduation looms ever by Jessica Stephens Staf!Wtiter closer. Last week, the Bailey Prize was ln order to protect the school • awardedtotheseniorwhohasren- from the possibility oflast year's dered the greatest service at rainy graduation, tents will be set · Union. Tltis year's reuipientofthe up on either side of~he graduates. • annual award was Beth If it rains, 9losed-circuit TV will Wierzbieniec, an individual who carry the.cerernony inside the Nott, clearly personifies the virtues as- Olin Building, Old Chapel, Memo- . so d-ated with the Prize. rial Chapel, and many ofthe elec- · Wierzbien iec, a senior from tronic clas~rooms. Amherst,. New York is a well-rec- As for Senior Week, class Vice- · ognized face among the student President Pete Casola enthusiasH- body, a resultofher extensive in- cally said~ \We're going to have a volvement on campus. great Senior Week! It's going to The senior's credentials, which be lots of fun. We're .planning all ·leadbackto herfirstdaysatUnion, sorts of activities including a trip are impressive. Wierzbieniec saw to the Great Escape and a booze her freshmaa year as an opportu'- cruise.\ nity to get her foot in the door and Class President Josh Chaplin to see what the school offered. stated, \I think our time at Union is While slle was involved both best represented by lookipg at · freshmen a:nd sophomore years, change. We arrived eager freshu she saw that time \as more of an m~n, ready to take on the world. oppoltunity to find where I was Now,we are about to leave Union.\ most comfortable\ and it was not When asked what he thought until junior year that she \found about his experiences as a senior, outthe areas where I could make a Mike DeMicco commented, ~'It was difference.\ A difference is dearly a lot of stress with a thesis, but what Beth Wierzbieniec has made. afterovercomingsuchagreatfeat, · During her freshman year, I've had an L\nbelievable ~ense of Weirbieniec became a Big Sister in relief.\ the Big Sister/Big Brother program On leaving Union, Sarah. Harsh andjoinedthe Gatekeeper Society. said, \I'm ready to be done with She remains active. in each ofthese Union but I'm not quite ready for organizations. the real world yet. This is why I'm As a sophomore, Weirzbieniec going to graduate school!\ served as secretary and treasurer Casola echoed a similar senti- to Big Brothers/Big Sisters and be- ment when he said, \I'm sad that I came a mentor to a first grade class have to ·leave Union and all the atEimerElementary School. :Atth.e greattimes I've had here, but I look . end ofthe school year, she ran for forward to the challenges that lie class representative and won. ahead.\ Junior year served to be both a Good luck friends and best busy and pivotal time for wishes to all the seniors in what Wierzbieniec. She held the posi- they do in the future. tion ofJunior Class Representative and became involved with MAG, a Multi-Cultural Advisory Group. In addition, the senior went on to cre- ate the popular Di~logues on Race and worked on CELA (Circlo Estudiante Latino Americano ). Beth We~rzbieniec It was during her junior y~ar that Wierzbieniec served a.s an orienta- tion adv.isor, which she continued to do through her senior year. Finally, as a senior, Wierzbieniec is currently serving as the Student Forum President. With such a de- manding position, Wierzbieniec says, \You have to give up other positions on committees because it is such a big commitment and opens you up to a whole different realm of responsibi Jities~\ When asked what she has ,.- . learned from such extensive in- volvement, Wierz~ieniec replied, \In general, you learn how to deal with a great group of people in a diverse .pcpulation. You also learn how to compromise in an effort to ·get your ideas to work.\ As with any position where you represent .tbe voice of peers, con- siderable stress is encountered. However, Weirzbieniec's endeav- ors have provided her with a great sense of fulfillment. When she was asked ifthe Union administration provided responses to her pursuits she responded, \If you have a vision here, you can achieve your goal. Overtime, I built a repertoire with the administration and gained respect, so that in re- turn, the student voices could be heard.\ Beth Weirzbieniec's future plans and ambitions should be equally rewarding for the upcoming gradu- ate. She will be moving to Balti- more for two years for the Teach for America program. After that time, she intends to return to school and get a degree in either law or public administration. The suc- cessful senior also holds aspira- tions to make changes in the present education system as \there is a lot of needed reform.\ When asked what the Bailey Prize means to her, Wierzbieniec replied, \Union meant a lot to me and by receiving this award, it is nice to know that I have meant a lotto Union.\ Indeed, Beth has had a great im- pact on the College and has set a precedence for those who follow. Her involvement in the school has set an importantexamp le for many. Wietzbieniec wif:J be greatly missed as she has clearly made Union College a better place. Union College would like to wish her good luck in all her future en- deavors. Olympics- Formula One Angelic Choir Takes to Flight •.• continued from pagel men ted that sbe was, \ ... having fun. on a reillly glo()my day.\ · Other forms of entertainment on . this afternoon inc Juded Mark McKee, a sophomore, demonstrat· ing his skill on an extremely small bicycle while Dean Alford showed off his talent ()f being able to d() a \head stand\ while on the 1llrf. Dean Alford displayed his skill soon after arriving with President Hull. Despite the fact that towards the end ofthe day rain forced the kids and volunteers inside for cover,· Jen Brate, ajuniorand amemberof the Youth Olympic Committee, remarked, \[Everything] went well ... a little chaotic, but the kids had fun.\ The event was a success and wi11 continue to delight the faces of Schenectady children for many years to come. Next year will bring an<lther round of fun and delight to alL Union sponsors many Big Brother/Big Sister events on earn- pus. Please look inside the paper for a I ist of all current big brothers and sisters who ha\'e donated their time throughout the year brightenil\g · the lives of many underprivileged cltildren. ... continued from page 1· left for Detroit, I never would have expected to leam so much from· my own students.\ In order to succeed, a project like this one requires several hours of dedication each week for a number of months. Everyone who helped has-a greater understanding of bow a car is built and how it runs. Aaron Pincus said, \This is a great project to get involved in. It is totally hands-on and you learn . more about cars than you ever could in the classroom.\ Taking part in the competition also required many noll-mechani- cal aspects. The team had to sub- • mit a lengthy and detailed cost re- port, which was weighed heavily in the judging. In addition, it had to incorporate a computer that regulated the fuel-injection sys- tem. Even the body was painted . by hand by an artistic friend of Mark Eberhardt. Mark Eberhaq:lt noted that, \A project like this could bridge the · gap between engineering and the liberal arts at Union.\ Anyone who is interested in join- ing the team can attend an infor- . mationalmeetingon Tuesday, June I in N205 at 8:30 PM or email Tom Jenne at jennet@union.edu. All are welcome regardless of major. by Erin Connolly Staff Writer Music was· a major feature for this week's ReUnion weekend. Perfonnances took place all around the c&mpus. One of the most beau- tiful concerts this past Saturday was given by the Union Choir. As the sun streamed through the pale col()red glass of Memorial Chapel, Union College's Choir as- cended oato the stage as a part of the Alumni weekend program. Clothed in classic black and white; the Choir of about 30 members opened their books as the specta- tors waited in still anticipation. The first cord of the organ was struck and the room filled with beautiful dassical music. Some selections included pieces from Marc-AJ1t()ine Cbarpertier's Te Deeum, H. 146. Union College Choir is made up of mostly studellts but contains a few staff members. The group travels often with performances at Boston University and in Quebec and Montreal this year. The talentofthis group is clearly evident itl the range of pieces pre- sented at the ReUnion Weekend Concert. One moment an angelic sound resonated from the choir and the next a haunting tone flowed over the crowd. The Choir flowed as one unit with ability to shape the emotions of the spectators with their unified voices. Dianne M. McMullen, the Union College Choir director, also served as host for the ReUnion Weekend Concert. She is a woman who wears many hats: in addtions to her role as Choir director, she is a musicologist and a concert or- ganist. McMullen, herself a singer in the choir, flexed her musicologist's talent with a tale about a song entitled \Missa Sancit Nicolai.\ This is a song that pays tribute to Prince Nicolai. The piece featured the guest soloists Jean Foster, Gwen Pykett, Dan Fos- ter, and Jon Malthouse. Foster, the soprano soloist, is not new to the ch<Jral perfonnance scene. She has performed with many choral organizations includ- ing the Octavo Singer and the. Burrit Hills Oratorio Society. She has also performed with light op- era companies. Pykett, a graduate of the New England Conservatory ·of Music. with degrees in vocal performance and composition, was the alto so- loist for the ReUnion Choir Con- cert. Some of the British-born performer's recent recitals have in- cluded Pinkaham's Music in the Manger and Mahler's Lieder enines jahrenden Gessellen. Foster filled the role of tenor so- loist. Foster, who is an organist in addtion his singing talent, was educated at Westminster Choir College. He is presently the Direc- . tor of Music at St. Paul's Episco- pal Church in Albany. A member of the Princeton~based early mu- sic ensemble Fuma Sacre, Foster has had the opportunity to record many works. Malthcuse, Director of the Dor- othy Welch Choral Society in Mechanicville and Schenectady Ch9ral Society was the bass solo- ist. As a bass-baritone, he has ap- peared with many other choirs as well as Union's. Malthouse also teaches voice at the Schenectady County Community College. The exceptional accompaniment was provided by Elinore Farmum. She is an organist at Schenectady's First Presbyterian Church and Temple Gates of Heaven. Farmum appears with the Octavo Singers as well as con- stantly taking part in organ recit- als in the area. The featured soloists were Crys- tal Hilton '01 and Lauren Breacher '99. Jennifer Huntington '0 1 ap- peared for the first time as a stu- dent conductor with the piece \In Mercy Hear Us Lord\ by Ludwig van Beethoven. Overall, the Choir performed el- egantly. They were a joy to the eyes and blessing for the ears.

Page 6 ·May 27, 1~99 Looking Ahead Setting the Record Straight Recently, I ~received several hun- introduced by my friend and col- Americas rind Fort Benning, Geor- dred letters from Union College stu- league, Congressman Joseph P. gia, calling for the school's elimi• The bare trees are now c0vered with leaves that create a green f'()nce de11ts questioning my support for Kennedy. I lcbbied for that bill, natiot:t. They were arrested and around the campus grounds. Soon that green will be dotted with tile closing of the School of the which called for the eliinination of sentenced to six months in jail and black caps and gowns of the graduating d~ss ef 1999. The College Americas. Unfortunately the state- the school~ but it did not come up fined $3,.000 each. l was among grounds will also be Jittered with family mem bersand friends who have rne11ts we Fe based on erroneous in- for a vote in· the House as ·~ free- those who intervened direetly with trekked from near and far to witness their loved ailles' historic pas~age fonnation. standing {Jill. Attorney General Janet Reno in through the gates of college. 1 want to set the record straight. Later that year, I veted for an support of a pending appeal for For some this will be the _last time they walk through a graduati()n ln this, the l 06t!t Congress, I am a amendment to the Foreign Opera- their pardons. ceremony because their years of schooling are now complete. F@roth- tco ... sncm of HR 732, a proposal tions Appropriatiens bill to pro- I shall continue my efforts to ers it is just the beginning of a series of educational opportunities from · close the School of the Ameri- hibit funoding for the school-· the help hr:ing. :about the .closing ofthe which they will receive degrees of higher learning. cas,. which was introduced ill the same o.bj ective of HR 611. Unfor- School oftheAmericas. ' The dreams and aspirations for the aforernentiened graduates are ex- ·House of ReJ)resentatives by Con- tunately 1 that amendment failed. Sincerely, tremely varied and ambitious. Some have exi:ensiv~ plans that desc~ribe . an Joe Moakiey. Last year; 25 people tried to con- Co .. gress~nan in full detail the path which they will follow fertile remainder of.tlleir In the lOS'h Congress (in 19~7), I duet a peacefu·l demonstration on MichaelR. McNulty I~.M~~~~~~h~~as~~~-~~~~~t-c_D_~~p_o_m_o_re_d_·_H_R_6_11~·-w_h_i_c~h_w_a_s __ ili_e~g~r_m_n_d_s~o-·f_t_~_s_~_o_o_L_o_f_t_~ __ u_·~s_.~H~o~u~~~o~f~R~e~p~re=s~e=~=a~ti=v=~~ Goodbye Seniors - It Has Be·en Fun- wish to take, but have yet to articulate the choices they will make to arrive at that particular concluding point. Still others have made a pledge not to plan their lives, for they wish to see where tmeir choices wiUtake them. Although the final destination of the members of this class. is Last week at the Senior din!1er, I ofmedi~I school, I can confidently over your head in debt make sure unknown, their means for attaining these goals are not. to Steve Hoyt's wonderful say yeuwill meet of those impos- yc;m do things like get good food Significant characteristics have been visible in the Class of 1'999 and l1hought about what I sible chall!;mges and more. You will that you Jove, read b0oks that take throughout the years they have spent at Uni()n College. These chara:c- ·say to all of you if given the find witllin yourse1fstrength and you away from everythJng that's teristics will allow them to accomplish the objectives they wish to C()ril- Over the past year while all power tlmt you never knew you making you miserable, and hang plete. They have provided substantial evidence through their acbiev:e- of you have been job hunting, ap- had. out with people that you've come ments here that they will fill our fu~ure with leaders and athletes scllol- plying t():grad schools and part:ying The c11ly V~ay you will do all of toJove .. and feel like you've known ars and actors, politicians and professors~ scientists and song~rite~s. ·to you;r h~arts' content; I have this is to believe in your dreams. forever. Ifyou're going to put all Through the musical performances, sporting events, academic acilieve- ~aught a glimpse ohvhat's out there This maysourrd,comy bu_t it is true. . :sorts .ofpressure. on yoarself, you ments and other varied happenings we have witnessed the talents of 10 the real world. As a memb-er of It isonlybywantingtobea physi- also need to make sure that you many members of the Class of 1999. class ofi999who's already taken cian so much it hurts that I have pamper and treat yourself right. Because of the talent that these individuals possess they will make <Jne step .off the Union_ grounds, I gotten ·tllrough this year. If you Good. luck to atl of you in what~ the 21st century a time of prosperity and distCovery. They have demon- · thought I would share w1th you what don't lu\e your dream yet you will. ever endeavors you pursue. When strated a will to create new traditions while upholding the old Otnes. 1 have l~arned. I have met people in their late thir- things get tough thinkofthe beau .. They have instituted new activities and clubs tttat are now stap ]es of Lo~k.mg back on our freshman ties Wh()- ilave only J~ecently figured tiful sunset behind West and the our institution. They have also made failed attempts at change .from ~ear, It Is clear that we've grown up out what they really want to do adorable lady who cleaned your which we can Jearn a great deal. Many ofthese students have illustrated Immeasurably (well, most of us). with the:ir lives. They have taught floor freshman year. Don'tbe afraid outstanding qualities that each class should exemplify. Freshman year was full ofohomesick- me that it is never too late.· I have when you're feeling completely The accomplishments of the aforementioned students should boe an ness, roommate conflicts, huge also been lucky enough te meet a crazedtocallyourbest friend from inspiration to all of us to make a difference at tllis college and ill the erushe~ on pe?ple_ we hardly kn~w wondetfill new friend to support freshman yearwho.knewyou when world that surrounds it We still have the opportunity to change u 11 ion and floundermg m a commumty me thro:ugh a:ll the hard times and · and say \Can I really. do this\. College for the better. We can improve it fo-r those classes yet to c:ome. where '€very.:lne seemed so much remindme of why I am really here. They~ ll·say somethinog like \De~ 't We should look atthe graduating class as an example of success as well !T1()Te ma~ure and knowledgeable. It never Iturts to have a friend with be stupid, Meesh, of course you as failure and learn from their endeavors. We should also remembertllat truth IS, the real world works the a similar dream to drag through the can\ and you'll remember why the world-outside of Union College needs our assistance as welL We way. Olllynow,afterfour years mud witil you. you've been friends for so long. have the power to make a difference in many lives, a power that we college, we know how to handle I ha\Veleamedanotherimportant We'll alwayshavethememoriesof should utilize to the full extent. roommate conflicts, disguise our lesson tlJis year. Be good to your- our four years at Union, but rest ·This message is being articulated at an essential time during the aca- ings for the boy next door and selves, because you are-a.U . ..you assured we'll be making plenty of demic year because it is the last publicatiom for 1his term. The s:taff of .n ... ,,.tQ •• ,-~ that we too know our way have. There wi II be wonderful new memories in the next few Concordiensis is asking all students to enjoy their summer vacati 0115 so friends but ultimately you need to years!!! that when it is time to return many of you will be ready to actively depend on yourself. Spoil your- Sincerely, participate in all that Union College has to offer. In addition, becau.se Gf self C()mpletely. Even when you Michelle Neier yomexperienc9h~~youwillbeprepared~chan~iliefu~resoili~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h~n~e~n~~~~~a~n~d~~~~~~~~~C~l!a!~~~~f~l~9~9~9~~~ ;r~~::e~~ol:s~ve the College gates you will be as influential as y()Ur Resp· .·. onse to Rec ... en t IJMB Very good! As usual, Union is 'yea' to this classmate and 'nay' befS. now well into its biannual (the aver- to that e:lassmate. Then they inform Perhaps you are still not con- Letter Policy & Dis claimer . age yearly minimum) uproar about the yea.s and nays of their accep- vinced that all these events are re- sororities, fraternities and hazing. tance or rejections, feel. a tinge of . lated. Students have not come up So ... we have our basic hazer. and guilt about the nays, but only a with this new code on their own, Letters to the Editor should he addressed to the our basic ha-zee. Who is right and tinge aDd certainly not enough to nor did it begin overnight. It is a OP JED page and must be received by 5 PM the vvho is wrong, and who do we love end tl1eir cruelty, mirrorimage ofthe rest of society. b £ bl' . tc hate today? The incivility is not only ac- Group A can only feel important p.TJLV.l . .lUc; 4 l e ore pu lCatlOn. Letters must be less tllan There is a familiar line that we all cepted,. but promoted. Someone by making Group B feel less im- 500 words and should pertain to an issue hate to hear, but it is true none the did it t() me, and I get to do it to portant, and it has to start some- the Union College community. Final Less: there is a consequence to your someone else, and the fact that we where. To exclude others at this . . actions. The hazing victim has found have bc::en Chartered for eons as level of life doesn't make sense, dec1sions concerning printing· and/or editin;g that out, and all the students who establish:ed American institutions unless of course this is a training submission belong to the Editorial Board. All participated in treating him like dog seems to legitimized our actions. ground forth ings to come. Hmmm, must be signed and saved on a high density disk, have also found that out. Ain't life grand! Leamitwell. When now there's a thought. The Greek Afterbeillg chased by city police- you leatve Union, you will quickly system does its job by encourag- . ugh the author'S ri.ame need DOt appear in the men he told1he truth. No allowance learn tilat it is OK 'out there' as ing and promoting the training, but N~1run1P..r, if the writer so specifies. Letters do be made for the fear he must well. A.s long as you keep yourself with a bit of subtetfuge. reflect the opinion of' the Editorial havefeltorthemental state me must at the 1op of the heap, anyth.ihg Each. year the 'brothers' and 'sis- . have been ill considering his blood- goes. ters' claim they are. inclusive orga· Editorials 'r'eflect the opinion of a majority of' alcohol level He is now ilie bad guy. The ~ruelty has become normal nizations; but each year they get Editorial Board,, and of no one member in particlllar A II others are just the poor victims? - a()C()rding to our new ethical to say 'thanks, but no thanks, to Any opinion columns or cartoons reilectthe Js that how this works? Who are code. Bllt, perhaps, itis not sc new. whomever they chose to reject. you all feeling sorry for? The 'poor' It's the game that starts to get re· That mak~s them exclusive no mat- the writers or artists, and not necessarily the hazer who can't sleep? What about ally serious in high school and ter how you bend and twist the opinions of the Editorial Board. all the parents? where it seems to cause the most discourse. Ad .. rti . . t. · .. . .... • . · C . . d' . . d . In case you have not figured it harm ICJ young people. Also, each year a dozen or so . Ve semen S appeattng In . 011CO~ zenslS () not · <Jut yet; everyone is a victim when The harm done is no longer just students have some hazing even necessarily reflect the opinions oftbeEditorlalBiO.ard. participating in the asinine inclu- emotiollat Angry, hurt students alter their lives- sometimes per- Concordiensis is, printed by Wodd Media; l Avenue, ;\.lbafiy> NY, 12205. · sive/exclusi ve game. Every year on now llave easy access to all kinds manently, but the system contin- lots of college campuses students of fire:arms. Now they 'get even' ues nonetheless. So we lose a few sit around with their secret sorerity by killi11g themselves and/or their students. Who cares! The usual and fraternity ceremonies deciding classmates in ever increasing num- Continued on Page 7

OP/ED C!I.rouoroiensi!S • May 27, 1999 · Page7 Response to Hazing Incident A Message From Safe~pace Continue(/ from Page 7 student rhetoric claims that with- out these institutions there would be no place to drink and/or party on campus,. forcing these activities of campus. The argument against this alter- native seems to be that students would be tn()re vulnerable to in- volvement ill some nasty drunk driving incident Is that responsi· bility too rnuclt for you? Itmust be great to pick and chose when and where to act like adults. The close bonds 1hat are created between the brothers and sisters are another argument for keeping sororities and fraternities. It's no mystery that many colleges func- tion very nicelywithoutthem, and even find places to drink and party without getting into any more tr()uble than you all do with the annual hazing folly. Also, students on non-Greek campuses are even capable offorming lifelong bonds with classmates. It seems presump- ti()n to assume that a non-Greek formed bond orfi\iendship· is some- h()W less valuilble. Students get blind drunk, get in troubl~ with tbe law, cause each _other physical h.arrn and lose lots of sleep over these self-inflicted disasters, andfhe frequency seems to depend very little on whether these incidents occuron or off cam- pus. Theie seems to be only one other explanation forsororities and fraternities. It's a place to reinforce a social caste system. To cruelly include or exclude others at will, and it's an · intrkate .part of your upbringing- , both socially and economically. So i why be ashamed or embarrassed .. Relax and enjoy the fruits of your labor, and the consequences - or have the chutzpah to try to the more , civilized alternative. Sincerely, Livia Carroll Modern Lang11age Dept It was n,ot your fault. It doesn't matter what you said or wore. It does not matter if you were friends with, or dating your a,ttacke,r. It was not you wlto acted inappropriately. You are not alone. There are people who are willing to help. Escape from Ellis Eme·rgency Room , It's okay to feel depressed, scared and angry. Just don't give up. by Lis Kidder Opi11ions Editor ously seen on a mannequin in the store windowofFredrick' s of Hoi~ lywood. I sat (}n the bed and pulled a sheet over rne, thinking that if I wasn't so sick. I would walk over Just outsi<le ofcampus, past the to the theatre and join the cast of soccer fields and the down the Cabaret. street, there lies a large warehouse As my frie11d began wandering in which tl1e sick are stored and around the f()Oin, playing with the periodically tortured. A large, various medical toy~, a man inhos- flashing neoruign, swinging in the pi tal scrubs walked into the room Schenectady breeze outside the and announced, \I work here.\ We building, reads, '\Ellis Strip Bar and were not suJ\e what he meant by Hospital - You Take Off Your this (h.e was dragging a cart filled Clothes, We Take OffOurClothes, with needle-s and other medical You Put on a Gown, We Dance!\ supplies, where else would we Those who visit Ellis in an inebri- til ink he worked?); but we quickly ated state are less likely to rem em- learned whylt.e had made the dec- ber the horror they endured, but latation: he was an escaped patient there are a few who are forced to from the mental ward. seek medica: I attention for otl1er He informedmethat he was there reasons, and. it is these people who to take my blood and began play- win be scarred for life. I visited Ellis ing with several things on his cart. last week, a11d the experience was He wrapped a piece of rubber enough to mak.e me swear ()ffmod- ar()und my ann, and as I gripped emrnedicinean<ljoin the Christian the hand of my friend he stabbed Science movement. me repeatedl:y in the arm with a Itstartedwithstomachpains,un- needle. Then he said, explainable, and enough to make \Hmmm ... this bas never happened the -doctor a1 Silliman convinced before.\ I looked in horror at my that more i11vestigation was nee- arm, which .had a needle and a vile, essary. Having heard rumors of halffilledwith blood, sticking out mysteriou~ly missing Union stu- of it. He rem{)ved the needle and dents, I was11ervous to go to Ellis, told me that he would have to try but since there seemed to be no taking blm><i from the other arm, alternate hospital in the area, I had because he couldn't seem to get no choice b11t to comply. 1 called a any blood IT()m the first one. close frien<l to come wit11 me He walked to the other side of (safety in n11mbers) and headed to the bed and tied the piece of rub- the hospitaL ber around my other arm. It was at When I g;()t there, I was con- this point tllat I realized, horrified, fronted with an interesting situa- fhat he was11'twearing gloves. He tion. The r~ceptionist was sitting stabbed me in the arm again, but behind a wall of glass, broken only this time one: of the pieces on the byasliding;window, through which plastic tubi11g leading from the she talked to incoming patients. needle to the vile came loose, and The only problem with this is blood bega115purting everywhere. tl1at, becau5e the room had not As my shocked friend watched on, been renovated since it was used he began attempting tq control the as a storehouse for captured midg- bleeding witb h.is bare hands, ex- ets, the window was atthigh level claiming, \l;m a piggy! I'm a and I had t<J get on my knees to tell piggy!\ repeatedly while I lost mas- the nurse whatwas wrong with me. sive amounts ofblood. After check.ing in, my friend and I My next encounter was with the took seats in the ER waiting room, doctor, who looked to be my age doing some .of our homework and and was u11deniably cute. My coropasing several novels t;efore . friend and. I exchanged glances, myrirune was called.,. ~ ·, '' ; . thinking that petl:!~ps our visit A nurse led ni~ do~n a;. long. cpr- 'WOUld 1mpr()ve: . ' rid or, instt:\ICting me to ignore the He exaooi11ed me, and seemed screams and telling me to go into convinced that I had appendicitis, room twelve, and put on a gown. but wanted to run a few tests first. My friend and I followed her in-· He told me that he wanted to give stmctions and two minutes later I me a pelvic exam. My reaction: was wearing an outfit I had previ- whaaaaaaaa:aaaaat? Shortly after the doctor left the room, a man who,appearedto be in the middle of his tFansformation into a werewolf walked into mY. room, carrying What looked fright- ening!~ like stirrups. He asked me iflwasinroom twelve, and I quickly to Jd him that he had the wrong room, hoping that be was unable to read numbers. Unfortunately, after wandering up and down the hallway several times, he figured out that I had been lying to him, and came in to fasten the stirrups to the bed. The escaped mental patient nurse came in to help him, and after a long fight with the bed, it became apparent the no stirrups would be involved. J was relieved, thinking that it would be impos- sible t() do a pelvic exam without stirrups. I was wrong. A nurse canie in and told me that the doctor would be in shortly to do the exam. I pointed out the fact that there were no stirrups on the bed and she told me that we could just do it without them. Wonder- ful. I protested, saying that the doctor was too cute to give pelvic exams, and that he would at least have to buy me dinner first. Little did 1 know that this would be a gi- ant mistake. W.hen the doctor en- tered the room, the nurse ran up to him and yelled, gleefully, \She wants you to buy her dinner first, because she thinks you're cute!\ The doctor looked from her, to me and said., \Well ... now this will be uncomfortable for everyone in- volved.\ After the exam, he was con- vinced that the problem was in- deed my appendix:, and called the surgeon to come down to look at me. Fo11r hours later, the surgeon came down, pushed on my stom- ach and tofd me that I could go home. Although I was a little worried because I still had a bizarre, undi- agnosed illness, I was more than ready to escape. My friend and I hurried ftom the room. On our way out, we spotted the escaped men- tal patient nurse; now in custody, w.earirtg a straight jacket and be- ing escorted onto the elevator by two orderlies. Back at home, 1 shoved cookies into my mouth, the method of re- covery ftom bloodloss I learned at the recent blood drive, and tried to recover from my ordeal at Ellis. Don't give your attacker the satisfaction. Don't Jet him win. Safe Space knows that rape happens at this small school and that's why we area confidential support group for victims and caring friends. Safe Space is here to listen. Safe Space Beeper:# 1-800-283- 2255 pin: 11349 <1lnn.car()ieusi s The Student Newspaper of Union College Sillce 1877 Schenectady's OUest Newspaper http://concordy .union.edu Brooke Baryliek - David Brooks EDITORS-IN-CHIEF Jaime Chandler EXECUTIVE EDITOR Elisabeth Kidder OPINIONS EDITOR Jessica Zueltlke NEWS EDITOR Brian Terlinsky SPORTS EDITOR Scott Scnllion FACULTY ADVISOR Kimberly Rohback A&EEDITOR Sloan Miller C()ry Silken PHOTO EDITORS Erika Mancini EDITORIAL CARTOONIST Victoria Hargreaves SCIENCE & TECH EDITOR Neil Routman WORLD NEWS EDITOR Jon Kelson MichaelS. McGuire COPY EDITORS Danielle Devine Amanda Jackson ADVERTISEMENT COORDINATORS Steve Mortefolio PROMOTIONAL MANAGER PHOTOGRAPHERS: Chip Crary, Sh~nnon Conaty,Jennifer MacDowell, Jeremy Messler~Sioan Miller, Dave Meguerdichian, Leah S-Baker, Rebec(aWalsb. STAFF: Mtltt Aronowitz,. Jeffrey :A.:usfelll~ Steve Ayers, Jessi~a Brearton, Gina Campanella,. John C.lu'bone, Li~a Carbone, Heatltei\ Clements; .Erin Connoly, Jim OeWann, Mary Felton, Stephen Flaherty, Peter Flynn, Heath. Fradkoff, Matt Gendron, Lori Greene, Sarah Harsh, Courtney H11yden, Mike Iger, Clark Jones, Jon Kelson, Daniel Kelhmanovich,Jor~an Lippman, Hugh Meyer, Sloan Miller, Shaun Montana, Stephen Nemeth, Brian Roache, Steve Schuler, Kate Scltmidt, Mark Shemeli Eugene Shultz, Adam-Paul Smolok, Rory Stern, Jess Stephens, Lee Stevens, Jon Tapper, Charles Tuthill, John Za11dman.

Page.S ' . . ·· A Salute To Hope Arnoldt Patron of Art by Kimberly Rob back A&EEditor This Tuesday marked the last . Coffeehouse (')f the 1998-99 aca- demic year, and I'm sorry to say that it also marked the last Coffee- house of Hope Amoldt's academic career here at Union. Hope Arnoldt, house manager of the Coffeehouse, has been a resident there for the past three years. She has also been a major contributor to the growth and development of art at Union. Without Ms. Arnoldt, where would art at Union be? Hope pro- vides the campus with milk for their coffee and tea for the Dutch Pipers when they come to the coffee house to enjoy art and entertain- ment. Hope is also a violent defeuder of the arts at Union. She has battled Residence Life for years over the right to Freedom of Expression. She defends the wall artists, in the face of the art- police state Admin- istration. Hope is an example of what Union College artistic expres- sion should be. Hope has also taken a nurnber of music classes. Yes, she-is a Bi- ology major and hopes someday to be a dentist; but do such ambi- tions mean that a person should not learn true appreciation ofmu- sic? Hope would disagree. She has studied the art ofthe music of Black America. She has learned how to read sheet music with the best of them. \Every Good Hope De- serves Fudge.\ In addition to an extensive back- ground in musical training, her de- fense of paintings on walls, and her concern over milk for the Coffee- house, Hope Arnoldt is an avid movie-watcher. Just last weekend she viewed the Hollywood BJock- buster, Star Wars. \!twas so cool. .. uh, huh,\ said Amoldt. \Why was it cool, Hope?\ I asked. \I don't know, there were like tons ofcool sound effects and Iwoks running around!\ she rep lied. Hope is also a patron of the the- ater. She has been to every play I have been in over the past two years. One of her favorites, Marat Sade, or as Hope likes to call it \Merot MaCrap,\ was described by Amoldt as, \the best f*#@ing play I've seen at this school ... See it had all the right elements ... crazy people, copulation ... \ Last term, she enjoyed her view- ing of The Government Inspector. \I thought it was good,\ Hope said. \I just didn't like the rats, the whole time I just kept thinking about the giant rat-head.\ Please keep in mind the rat-head to which she is referring was in the first five min- utes of the three-hour play. This term, Hope came to see Cabaret. She dragged two of her friends down to the Yu 1m an to try to buy tickets for the sold-out show. Wbile she was waiting in line for the waiting-list, she found a women who possessed four tick- Hope: Self-Reflections Courtesy Gin-a LaSorsa Hope prepares her case against Residence Life ets. The women told her, \I only need two, you could buy the other two off <Jf me.\ Hope turned to her fe How tlleater-goer and said, \Yes we can scalp tickets to Cabaret.\ Keep in mind, she came to the the- ater with two friends. The other friend, who was appar- ently having some problems with kidney st<mes, was moaning in the bathro()m. Hope, after watching Cabaret When he returned to the lobby of the theater, he saw Ms. Amoldt passing by en her way out the door to enjoy a pre-show cigarette. He stopped her, and asked where she was going. She held up her ticket and said, \Oh I have a ticket.\ She then left the third party to die in the parking lot. But according to Hope, it was weH worth it. She enjoyed the show a lot. She returned home after g;iving some ofthe performers fl()Wel:'s that she ran down and stole out of Jackson's Gardens, c lic.kin:g her heels, and singing the tune5cofthe musical she enjoyed. One ofher only criticisms :about the play was the \lack of far.ting.\ She thought that the cormedic value of the piece would lla'Ve been greatly increased ifthere had been more. Hope tries not to love herself in the alit, but the art in herself. She finds vehicles of art: is tic expression throqghsimple things. She enjoys going to the craft store to buy fiower pots. She then. tak.es paint and makes them plaid. She fills her room with these ,piece$, and uses tqem, not for flowers, but ash,. trays. Artistic? Of course. Another craft, which Hope is particularly fond of, is graph- making_. It is not enough for her graphs to be one color. She may have a twenty-five page lab report ta write, but untilthat graph has at least five·differellt colors on it, it is not time to start. Anytime is time for art, according to Amoldt. For those ofy<m who have seen the recently remodeled Coffeehouse, you have surely noticed the ,painting on the walls of the room. These are the de~ign of Patrick Strong. This project, which resulted iuwalls offlaming paint and a New York City skyline, was a joint one. Hope boasts painting three of the tiny white windows in the Empire State building .. \It can be difficult to work with Hope,\ said Strong. \She is extremely passionate about her work. When W!=?,. were working on the skyline, she had to have some kind of structure within which she could find the freedom of the dumpy sponge brush I gave her.\ Hope Arnoldt. What will this school do without her? What will come ofthe Coffeehouse, the only place on campus which provides an open stage, and an ear to Hsten? Hope's ear was always ready. She was always eager to hear just one more Dave Matthew's song. Sad, but true, her gifts to this school's artistic community have long gone unreC()gnized. She will be dearly missed by anyone who has ever had the pleasure of watching this a1tist at work. In all seriousness, Hope Amoldt has been one of the few, the proud, and the brave who have consistently endeavored to support art and entertainment at Union College. She attends art show openings. She poses for photographers. She attends many, if not all, of the performances at the Yulman. She has worked very hard for three years to promote the success of the Coffeehouse. It is all too often that people who support art, but do not directly partake in their ()Wn creative artistic projects, go unrecognized. To paint a painting <>r compose a piece of music is a reward in and of itself. These accomplishments become more realized when we have an audience, or a reader to share them wi1ll. Hope Amoldt, whether she knows it or not, has proven to be one such a reliable and supportive person. Congratulatio11s Hope, you are the Art Patron ofthe Year! You will be dearly missed.

Page 8 .Mfly ~7, 1999! A Salute To Hope Arnoldt Patron of Art by Kimberly Rohback A&E Editor This Tuesday marked the last Coffeehouse of the 1998-99 aca- demic year, and l.'m sorry to say that it also marked the last Coffee- house of Hope Amoldt's academic career here at Union. Hope Arnoldt, house manager of the Coffeehouse, has been a resident there for the past three years. She has also been a major contributor to the growth and development of art at Union. Without Ms. Arnoldt, where would art at Uni()n be? Hope pro- vides the campus with milk for their coffee and tea for the Dutch Pipers when they come to the coffee house to enjoy art and entertain- ment. Hope is also a violent defender of the arts at Union. She has battled Residence Life for years over the right to Freedom of Expression. She defends the wall artists, in the face of the art- p()lice state Admin- istration. Hope is an example of what Union College artistic expres- sion should be. Hope has also taken a number of music classes. Yes, she is a Bi- ology major and hopes someday to be a dentist. but do such ambi- tions mean that a person should not ledm true appreciation of mu- sic? Hope would disagree. She has studied the ati of the music ofBiack America. She has learned how to read sheet music with the best of them. \'Every Good Hope De- serves Fudge.\ In addition to an extensive back- ground in musical training, her de- fense of paintings on walls, and her concern over milk for the Coffee- house, Hope Arnoldt is an avid movie-watcher. Just last weekend she viewed the Hollywood Block- buster, S1ar Wars. \It was so cool. .. uh, huh.\ said Arnoldt. \Why was it cool, Hope?\ I asked. \I don't know, there were like tons of cool sound effects and !woks running around!\ she replied. Hope is also a patron of the the- ater. She has been to every play I have been in (}ver the past two years. One ofher favorites, Mara/ Sade, or as Hope likes to call it \Merot MaCrap,\ was described by Arnoldt as, \the best f*#@ing play I've seen at this school. .. See it had all the rigltt elements ... crazy people, copulation ... \ Last tenn, she enjoyed her view- ing of The Gowrnment Inspector. \I thought it was good,\ Hope said. \I just didn't like the rats, the whole time I just kept thinking about the giant rat-head.\ Please keep in mind the rat-head to which she is referring was in the first five min- utes of the three-hour play. This term, Hope came to see Cuharet. She dragged two of her friends down to the Yulman to try to buy tickets for the sold-out show. While she was waiting in line for the waiting-list, she found a \Hlll1en who p<JS<,~ssed four tick- Courtesy Gina LaSorsa Hope: Self-Reflections Courtesy Gina LaSorsa Hope prepares her case against Residence Life ets. The women told her, ''I only need two, you could buy the other two off of me.\ Hope turned to her fellow theater-goer and said, \Yes we can scalp tickets to Cabaret.\ Keep in mind, she came to the the- ater with two friends. The other friend, who was appar- ently having some problems with kidney stones, was moaning in the hath room. Hope, after watching Cabaret When he returned to the lobby of the theater, he saw Ms. Arnoldt passing by on her way out the door to enjoy a pre-show cigarette. He stopped her, and asked where she was going. She held up her ticket and said, \Oh I have a ticket.\ She then left the third party to die in the parking lot. But according to Hope, it was well worth it. She enjoyed the CourtcsyGina LaSorsa show a lot. She returned home after giving some of the performers flowers that she ran down and stole out of Jackson's Gardens, clicking her heels, and singing the tunes of the musical she enjoyed. One ofherC>nly criticisms about the play was the \lack of farting.\ She thought that the comedic value of the piece would !lave been greatly increased if there had been more. Hope tries not to love herself in the art, but the art in herself. She finds vehicles of artistic expression through simple things. She enjoys going to the craft store to buy flower pots. She then takes paint and makes them plaid. She fills her mom with these pieces, and uses them, not for flowers, but ash- trays. Artistic? Of course. Another craft, which Hope is particularly fond of, is graph- making. It is not enough for her graphs to be one color. She may have a twenty-five page lab report to write, but unti I that graph has at least five different colors on it, it is 11ot time to start. Anytime is time for art, according to Arnoldt. For those of you who have seen the recently remodeled Coffeehouse, you have surely noticed the painting on the walls C>fthe room. These are the design of Patrick Strong. This project, which resulted in walls of flaming paint and a New York City skyline, was a joint one. Hope boasts painting three of the tiny white windows in the Empire State building. \It can be difficult to work with Hope,\ said Strong. ''She is extremely passionate about her work. When we were working o-n the skyline, she had to have some kind of structure within which she could find the freedom of the dumpy sponge brush I gave her.\ Hope Arnoldt. What will this school do without her? What will come of the Coffeehouse, the only place on campus which provides an open stage, and an ear to listen? Hope's ear was always ready. She was always eager to hear just one more Dave Matthew's song. Sad, but true, her gifts to this school's artistic community have long gone unrecognized. She will be dearly missed by anyone who has ever had the pleasure of watching this artist at work. In all seriousness, Hope Arnoldt has been one of the few, the proud, and the brave who have consistently endeavored t() support art and entertainment at Union College. She attends art shC>w openings. She poses for photographers. She attends many, if not all, of the performances at the Yulman. She has worked very hard for three years to promote the success of the Coffeehouse. It is all too often that people who support art, but do not directly partake in their own creative artistic projects, go unrecognized. To paint a painting or compose a piece of music is a reward in and of itself. These accomplishments become more realized when we have an audience, or a reader to share them with. Hope Amoldt, whether she knows it or not, has proven to be one such a reliable and supportive persC>n. Congratulations Hope, you are the Art Patron ofthe Year! You will be dearly missed. r '

Arts &: ·Ent~ttaim111ent C!!mt.ttririen:,;is • May 17, 1999 • Page·9 I Can't Believe I'm Not Butter by Deric Harrinii:Oil, StaffWr iter Sorry that I didn't get 111y article in here lastweek,butfclr.s()rile un- known reason, the A.&] editortied me to a table, yellin.E \'Wirite more about A&E, or I will IkiU you!'' Those crazy editors .... I went to Hartford a •Co(JU]>le of weeks ago to check () utt New Ha- ven based Gargantua.:SOo-ul. This band put on the bestpd~nnance of any band I have seel! ill is year (so, that's out of ab~uit 35 Qr so bands .•. lmean, :ifit\\i.et:e: ~nly out oflike, one band, then~ealt; nokid- ding they were the best ornes, but I get around when it c~llile:S to con- · certs). Not exactly an. idealvenue for a concert, buttlle tea~ singer (Kris Keyes) manage.d t() head down every hallway, gu~natsicle and sing, go and do justabl()ut anything one could desire at a c om€:ert, in- cluding breaking the te~!J,le I was sitting at (I mean, 1' vee lieard of bands telling peopl.e tea stand up, but breaking the table ]e~ple are sitting at? That.._ '1\1/~t;,. .. awe- some). This is the l<i11dof a band that Union needs to come out and Gottlieb\ in the Yulman theater, ryingtherightmug ... play next year at Springfest. J mean, around 1 0:45 PM, as part of the I just heard tonight (it just hap- from what I heard (I was in Hartford Mountebanks Cabaret. Then see pened tonight, with tonight being the da.y of Springfest), the bands, Ari give his own farewell perfor- Sllnday, M~y 23)that Professional that played were mediocre at best. mance in soft core porn movies ~restler Owen Hart died while WhynotgiveUnionsomethingdif- everywhere ... oops, ldidn'tmean coming down from the rafters to ferent (dare I say Union and differ- to write that, and my backspace is d() an interview. He was supposed entinthe samesentence?)and give broken, so let's just pretend I tl() lleharnessed in and lowered, but us a good show for a change. didn't say that, OK? What l meant something went wrong andhe fell Anyway, I guess I get to kind of to say w;tS that Ari 's farewell per- 5& feet to the ring, where he landed wrap up the year ' on the ring ropes. He now ... hmmm ... ..--------~---_,...__,...,.__ ______ ___,died shortly thereafter. l've written about , 'A J fi // I l;lsually wouldn't 15 ot so articles. . . ri s arewe mention anything About five of,those about something like mentioned some- p· er~'ormance is next this, but he was a t}ling to d·o with J l childhood hero of ArtsandEntertain.- k G H. o· u·sE\ mine, so I figured I rnent. I've prob- wee ~--· . . . 0 see . .. ' . . . might as well use a ably asked for E... public forum such as mail about lOtirnes this to say thanks for (~) the memories. you~H and I've gotten two pieces ..• one good, one bad. Which translates into.,. J'WOFREAKING PEOPLE READING MY COLUMN! Wow, pretty impressive, eh? That's what ... two more people than read the Science and Technology ones! Not everything is done yet though. This Saturday, come see Deric give a \farewell to Ari formance is going to be in the play House nextweek, Wed•Satat8:00 PM, in the Yulman Theater. I've sat through a partial run through o:f the show, and 1 feel like it is phenomen·a:l. I have a few people to thank. So, if you received an invite, I' II give you one, assuming you're wearing the right T-shirt and car- be missed. Another person that's going to be missed, at least around Union, is. Barry K. Smith. I have had the !honor to work with him a couple !times on different things, and he is someone that changed my life for- ever. He has provided me with the means to proceed to the next stage \'fmy life, by being my professor, director,and friend. There's going to be a large empty spot in the the- . ater, Barry, one that will always be just big; enough for you and your halls. Judging by the way the Nurses are sh.ooting me UJ> with No- vocaine again, I'm guessing it's just about time for a11other sum- mer. 1his time, however, you can enjoy the madness of my articles on the web, as for I'm going to be writing .about once a week and put- ting it up on my web site (mem bers.aol.com/slapymcgee ). It's kind of sad in a wa:y to have to stop writing, because I know how much it a11noys some of you that I don't write about A&E, and that's what keeps me going. I think we can ch~tlk up a big ol' slash in the succeS$ c<>lumn for this 2 term ex- periment in sleep deprived writing (only one article has ever been writ- ten before 1 AM). Until next year, I Femain Deric \putting the soft, back into M icros()ft Word\ Harrington. Next year, who know's? hnay be edit- ing this section, because I know how much Kim hates<i1! Ummm ... yeah. Bye 4 now. The Screening Room: Matrix Reviewed Courtesy oj Matthew W~b/J.er.at sflare. com/sj!re'Vie'llis_/,tml It's a little depressillg~wVben you have to admit that ai<.ee:am R.eeves flick is the best Sci-fi 1110\Vie that you've seen in a wilile, ba~t despite many reservations gl()ing in, The Matrix proved to be lln quite an entertaining ride. The plot centers aiDtLnda yt>ung man named Neo (Iteev-es),. a C()m- puterhacker who is pl~gll.edby one question: \What is tli.e lv1atrix?\ Along comes the maJJd!ltory love interest, a hackernarnedl ninity and a mysterious figure kllDIWII only as Morpeus (Laurence IFi:ilib:urne) to give him the answers ~nd: a.long the way, yank reality r.i~bt ()-Ut from under him. The characters al'e.as comic book cheese as their names (through most ofthemovie I thought Reeves character was called \Neal\) but then again, so is the movie. Tllis movie is two hours and ten rnin- utes of bullets, martial arts and cyberpunk. There is a veryanime feelto this movie and the influences of Asian directors like John Woo stand out with every slow .. motion bullet or fly- ing ariel kick. Fortunately, the Hol- lywood influences are kept to a mini- mum and the grating witty banter ofBruce or Arnold is keptto a well- timed \Dodge this.\ Without the pesky distractions of complex dia- -logue or coherent plot the movie allows you to center on the special effects and the fight scenes. Both of which are marvelous. l may scream if I see another movie use that Gap ad \freeze -rotate- resume\ shot, but at least here, unlike oh, say, WingCommander, it's used to good effect. It's a very pretty film, but it's a rather shallow one. The plot, when it finally decides to get mov- ing, is a blend of standard Cyberpunk and the \Twisted Re- ality\ form that seems to be the flavor ofthe moment for SF mov- ies. Neo and his new-found cro- nies spend the movie jumping over buildings, dodging bullets and fly- ing their magic Morpeus-mobile through tight tunnels on some sort of rebellion against the ma- chines that have enslaved human- ity. If anyone else is having 50's B-movie flashbacks then you're not alone. The specific goals are ofthis intr~pid little band of rebels specific goals are a little hazy, but no· doubt involved saving all of llumanity. They are opposed by :in.vulneFable entities known only ~s agents. Tho.ugh why there seems to be only three of these ~gents remains a mystery. There is ;an awkward subplot about Neo being the prophesized ''Tile One'' itlrat grated on my nerves like a belt :sander; but otherwise the plot is just an excuse to string together s<>Ine dynamic fight scenes and :special effects. Now for the news everyone is 'Waiting for ... how bad was Keanu 's e~cting? Mercifully he didn't have t& do much ofit. Other than a clunky ending monologue, he is required :mostly to act either confused or l()Ooly detached. Since these seem 1() be his natural expressions, he manages withouttoo much trouble. Both he and Lawrence Fishburne make up a little SF s~eet credibility after the disasters that were Event Horizo11·and Jonny Mnemonic with this movie. Not all of it, it will be many years before my braincells forgive for immersing them in that greasy cinematic filth, but at least they've C()me out from sulking in the corner. Some people say that movies aren't meant tobe thought about to() closely. The:y are for the there f()rthe sheer enj()yment of it. And, fortlle most, part I'd disagree, but for The Matrix I'llrnake an ex- ceptioll: it's brainless, popcorn munching fun. So, if you're in the mood for some j>ure entertainm~nt without a lot of needless \thinking The Matrix is the movie fQr you! Go see it while you can; I 'A!ould imag- ine it won't be in theaters much longer~ seeing that Star Wars is moving in! Large 3 ·Bedroom First Floor 1054 Glenwood Blvd .. $435/person & $30/month each additional person + utilities. Off Street Parking, safe & Cl .......... Availab.le 6/18 Call AI at 343-6831, or 377-9061

Arts & Entertainment Cllou.cnrhiemsi~J • May 27, 1999 • Page 9 I Can't Believe I'm Not Butter by De ric Harrington Staff Writer Sorrythatldidn't get my article in here last Vleek, but for some un- known reason, the A&E editor tied me to a table, yelling \write more about A&E, or I will kill you!\ Those crazy editors ... I went to Hartford a couple of weeks ago to check out New Ha- ven based Gargmttua Soul. T'his band put on tile best performance of any band I have seen this year (so, that's out of about 35 or so bands ... I mean, if it were only out oflike, one band, then yeah, no kid- ding they were the best ones, but I get around wllen it comes to con- certs). Not exactly an ideal venue for a concert, but the lead singer (Kris Keyes) managed to head down every l1allway, go outside and sing, goanddojustabout anything one could desire at a concert, in- cluding breaking the table I was sitting at (I mean, I've heard of bands teHing people to stand up, but breaking the table people are . . ? T'h stttmg at. 1 at. .. was ... awe- some). This is the kind of a band that Union needs to come out and Gottlieb\ in the Yulrnan theater, rying the right mug ... play next year at Springfest. I mean, arollln4 10:45 PM, as part of the I just heard tonight (it just hap- from what I heard (I was in Hartford Mmtltebanks Cabaret. Then see pened tonight, with tonight being the day ef Springfest), the bands Ari~i ve his own farewell perfor- Sunday, May 23 )that Professional that pl~yed were mediocre at best. ma!lce in soft core porn movies wrestler Owen Hart died while Why not give Union something dif- everywllere ... oops, I didn't mean coming down from the rafters to ferent (dare I say Union and differ- to wtite that, and my backspace is do an interview. He was supposed ent in the same sentence?) and give broken, so let's just pretend I to be harnessed in and lowered, but us a good show for a change. didll'tsay that, OK? What I meant somethiHg went wrong aHdhe fell Anyway, l guess I get to kind of to SCIY was that Ari 's farewell per- 50 feet to the ring, where he landed wrap up th.e year on the ring ropes. He now ... hmmm ... r------------------------'-1 died shortly thereafter. I've written about \A fi [ I usually wouldn. 't 15 or so ar.ticles. ri 's arewe l mention anything About fiveofthose about something like mentioned some- per+o rmanc e is next this, but lle was a thing to d<J with J'l childhood hero of ArtsandEntertain- we.ek ... Go see HOUSE\ mine, so I figured I meJlt. I'\e prob- might as well use a ably asked for E- public forum such as mail about I e times this to say thanks for (~) the memories, you'll and I've gotten two pieces ... one good, one bad. Which translates into ... TWO FREAKING PEOPLE READING MY COLUMN! Wow, pretty impressive, eh? That's what. .. two more people than read the Science and Technology ones! Not everything is done yet though. 1'his Saturday, come see Deric give a \farewell to Ari fommnce is going to be in the play Ho141se next week, Wed-Sat at 8:00 PM, in the Yulman Theater. I've sat t~rough a partial run through of tihe show, and I feel like it is ph e11om en a!. I have a few people to thank. So, if you received an invite, l' II give you one, ass urn ing you're wearing the right T-shirt and car- be missed. Another person that's going to be missed, at least around Union, is Barry K. Smith. I have had the honor to work with him a couple times on different things, and he is someone that changed my life for- ever. He has provided me with the means to proceed to the next stage of my I ife, by being my professor, director, and friend. There's going to be a large empty spot in the the· ater, Barry, one that will always l>e just big enougll for you and yom bal:ls. Judging by the way the Nurses are shooting me up with No- vocaine again, I'm guessing it's just about time for another sum- mer. This time, however, you can enjoy the madness of my articles on the web, as for I'm going to be writing about once a week and put- ting it up o:n my web site (members.aol.com/slapymcgee). It's kind of sad in a way to have t() stop writing, because I know how much it annoys some of you that I don't write about A&E, and that's what keeps me going. I think we can chalk up a big ol' slash in the success column for this 2 tenn ex.· periment in sleep deprived writing (only one article has ever been writ- ten before 1 AM). Until next year, I remain Deric \putting the soft, back into Microsoft Word\ Harrington. Next year, who know's? I may be edit· ing this section, because I kno\v how much Kim hates it! Ummm ... yeah. Bye 4 now. The Screening Room: Matrix Reviewed Courtesy of cheese as their names (through Matthew Webber at most of tile movie I thought Reeves sjlare.com./sftreviews.html character was called \Neal\) but then again, so is the movie. This It's a little depressing when you movie is two hours and ten min- have to admit that a Keeanu Reeves utes of bullets, martial arts and flick is the best Sci-fi movie that cyberpunk_ you've seen in a while, but despite There is a very anime feel to this many reservations going in, The movie and the influences of Asian Matrix proved to be an quite an directors like John Woo stand out entertaining ride. with every slow-motion bullet or fly- The plot centers around a young ing ariel kick. Fortunately, the Hoi- man named Neo (Reeves), a com- lywood infh1ences are kept to a mini- puter hacker who is plagued by one mum and the grating witty banter question: \What is the Matrix?\ of Bruce or Arnold is kept to a well- Along comes the mandatory love timed ••o()dge this.\ Without the interest, a hacker named Trinity and pesky distractions of complex dia- a mysterious figure known only as Iogue or c<Jherent plot the movie Morpeus (Laurence Fishburne) to allows yoll to center on the special give him the answers and along the effects and the fight scenes. Both way, yank reality right out from of which are marvelous. I may under him. scream if I see another movie use The characters are as comic book that Gap ad \freeze- rotate- resume\ Jaiz·at .. Union Profes.sor Tim Olsen's···uJ~z, WorkShop\ class willpresenta c0:ncertoforigl~a!/e7~gcompositions on Thur.sday~ •· .f4ne 3ifroin; !.4.~JrJ~· i :']0? Mat' ihe · College (Jentet:Patio (ratnli:rcatlon Chet~i).· The class consists ofvooalist ·raryn SCI.mol, ·clarinetist Karim . Cruz, saxophonist.· .. Natha~Jiel Str:osb~rg, . trumpeter Nicholas Crawford,: ~cfhzboni~t J)~ug Morton, guitarist George Edwards;. viol{nist Siraj . - \ . ,. Bhadsavle, and keyboardists ·Michael Gulla and David Schonbrun. The Union College Jazz Ensemble,. under the direction of professor~ Tim Olsen, will be participating irJ. the l)isq_over /azz f;nsemqle~ in Burlington): Vermont. , ·: Petforritli~tc,is. ~f.lr~.,·slqted for . Wednesday/ Jun~-,9 'from s;~:tfo ... &iod~i!MJ~t.tnd ,, · ~Thursddy, , Ju(~,· ,~~Q-ftoin',4~~·i5'.j£,:j\j~X~f!{J-~i~iJ1.~ · Churc:h Str~et·- M:arkeiplace'; . .in:\4i>Writ0w1J Bttrll1igtoi{ :_ 1 f£< 1\ · /. : :-,;::''~::',)S:-J:{';:_:!,.'::;;~';'!':->~:;{i;:'./:~::; . sho:t, but at least here, unlike oh, humanity. They are opposed by after the disasters that were Et>ent say, Wing Commander, it's used invulnerable entities known only Hori::.on and Junny Mnemonic with to g;~od effect. as agents. Though why there this movie. Not all of it, it will be It's a very pretty film, but it's a seems to be only three of these many years before my braincel1s rather shallow one. The plot, agents remains a mystery. There is forgive for immersing them in that whe11 it finally decides to get mov- an awkward subplot about Neo greasy cinematic filth, but at least ing, is a blend of standard being the prophesized \The One\ they've come out from sulking in Cyberpunk and the \Twisted Re- that grated on my nerves like a belt the corner. Some people say that alit\\ form that seems to be the sander. but otherwise the plot is movies aren't meant to be thought flaV'or of the moment for SF mov- just an excuse to string together abouttooclosely. Theyareforthe ies. Neo and his new-found cro- some dynamic fight scenes and there for the sheer enjoyment of it. niess.pend the movie jumping over special effects. And, for the most, part I'd disagree, buildings, dodging bullets and fiy- Now for the news everyone is but for The Matr L>o: I' II make an ex- ing their magic Morpeus-mobile waiting for ... how bad was Keanu's ception: it's brainless, popcorn through tight tunnels on some acting? Mercifully he didn't have munching fun. sortt of rebellion against the rna- to do much ofit. Other than a clunky So, if you're in the mood for chi11es that have enslaved human- ending monologue, he is required some pure entertainment \vithout ity. If anyone else is having 50's mostly to act either confused or a lot of needless \thinking Tht: B-rm()vie flashbacks then you're cooly detached. Since these seem Matrix is the movie for you! G() not a.lone. The specific goals are to be his natural expre~sions, he see it while you can; I would imag- oft his intrepid little band of rebels manages without too much trouble. ine it won't be in theaters much spe:cific goals are a little hazy, but Both he and Lawrence Fishburne longer, seeing, that Star JVars is no doubt involved saving all of make up a little SF street credibility moving in! Large 3 Bedroom First Floor 1054 Glenwood Blvd. $435/person & $30/month each additional person + utilities. Off Street Parking, safe & Clea Available 6118 Call AI at 343-6831, or 377-9061 ~--~~~~~--~~--~·'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Page 10 • May 27, 1999 • (Jt~a:ar.hiensis ·World News Cox Report Conclude·s Chinese E'spionage is Security Threat J,y Stephen Nemeth StaifWriter The recent release of over 700 :pag~s of a congressional investigation has raistecl:ques- tions over the security ofthe nation's ll:Uclear weapons labs and our strained relationship with China. This hascau.sed a furorinWash- ington and the def~nse establishmerut,. which perceives China as a future threat to US in- teiests in the Pacifi.c. The report alleges that China's. theft and acquisition of secrets ficm government in- stallations, as well as through US <:ompa- nies working in the country, has allowed China's nuclear technology to jum)} from 1950's style program to sophisticated de- signs that are \on par with our <Jvtn,\ The report also states that as soon as US iilltelli- gence was made aware o-f China's acii'Vities, it did not report to administration officials \in a timely fashion.\ The report also accuses two US .defense contractors of ignodng legal restricti.ons that allowed China to obtain infonnationthat was critical to its ballistic missile program. At a news conference .immediately after the release of the report, the committee's chairman, Representative Christopher Cox (R-California), summed up the findings <Jf his committee \[China] has mounted a wide- spread efforttoobtain U.S. milital)'technol,. ogy by any means, legal <Jr illegaL~' H~ also stated that volumes of classified mllterial supported the findings ofthe committee. The committee'srcmking Democrat·,. Rep- resentative Norm Dicks of Washi11gton, called the report \one of the worse counter- intelligence failures in the nation's hiistory .\ But, he added, \as of today, Chinaihcts not deployed a single, new nuclear w.eapon based on information they have o1Jtai11ed.\ The White House commented ()rJ tlle news by stating that it did not agree v.a.!ith all the findings of the panel but that it will ,look into allegations of lax security and vowed that security measures will be strengthtmed at the numerous nuclear weapons labs throughout the country. The Clinton Administration first heard rumblings of Chinese mi'litary espionage in 1995 when a Chinese citizen- who, it was later leamed, worked for Chinese intelligence -gave the CIA a document that stated that Beijing bad acquired USnuciearsecretsand that security as a whole willnot \not be sat- isfactery 11ntil at least sometime in the year 2000. '' The report criticizes the administra- tion for its stance towards security. \De- spite repeated [Chinese] thefts .of the most sophisticated U.S. nuclear weapons tech~ nology, security at our national nuclear weapo11s laboratories does not meet even minima.!' standards.\ Upo11 receipt of news ofthe committee's findings, the Chinese government issued a Alamos and Sandia Nuclear Laboratories in New Mex::ico and Lawrence Livermore in California. The r.eport criticizesthe Clinton Adminis- tration f<lr its slow reaction to the allf]ga- tions, particularly .Attorney General Janet Reno's\ ill, defensible\ hanclling.ofthe affair, ·but cFedits Energy Secretary Bill Richatdson with long•needed improvements t(:) tbe nation's vulnemble nuclear labs; which are run by his department. u 1 r . if . .,.:{' h . . ' upon recezpt o news o 1 t e commzttee s Richardson told CNN on Tuesday he has taken\dr11rnatic steps\ to guard against tlleft of secrets by tightening computet sec11rity at weapons labs and that the report does not reflect .counterintelligence and sect.nity improvements made this year. findings, the Chinese government issued a statement denying them in their entirety. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhu Bangzao said in Beijing that the allegations. were cooked up by people who w·ant to slan ... der China and declared that (their despi- The report also described China's in:1er- action with the US business community to pursue US technological secrets. The panel's work began a year ago folbwing accusatia11s that campaign contribtrtic,ms might ha~e influenced the Clinton adminis ... tration to give favorable treatment to U.S. companies granted permission from Wasb- ington to launch satellites on Chinese mck- ets. cable attempt is doomed to failure. '\ Fo.Jiowing three unsuccessful launches, outlined the extent to which the secrets were used. The report a:lso claimed that Presi- dent Clinton was not informed ofthe infor- mation until a briefing early in J 998. When asked why there was a three-year gap between when the infonnation was first known u11til President Clinton was briefed on it, Repres~ntative Cox stated on CNN, \There are a riurn ber of reasons tha't inte.lli- gence services direct infonnation in this way. To advertise in some cases something about their strength that they want you to know. In other <:as.es, to promote disinformation.\ The administration has stated. that it has increased security at facilities but admitted the report says, US satellite manufacrurers statement denying them i11 their entirety. Lora] Co1p: and Hughes Electronics gave China Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhu China unauthorized information to improve Bangzao said in Beijing that the allegations the reliability ofmissiles used to launch com- were ~ooked up by people wllowantto sian- munications sateHltes. The report statedthat der China and declared that \theirdespicable the same know-how could be used to rnake attempt is doomedto failure.\ China' snuclearmissiles more reliable. The llipartisan committee which consisted The continuation of China's acquisition on five Republicans and f<lur Democrats andespionage, whichmanyhavesaid\c<Jn~ :bega11 its investigation into technology tinuestoth.is day,\ has caused much rancor transfers over a year ago but refocused its in Wash i11gton where many have seen attention last fall into reports of theft and China's reckless growth and sale of weap- espionage conducted· by the Chinese gov- ons to en~my countries as a precursor t() a emmenL more unstable Pacific arena. The US must The c::omrn ittee found that tile major focal continue to improve and be ever vigilant to points of Chinese spying were the Lo~~~jjl'event such blatant abuses in the future. Barak Pushes for Negotiations Colleges See Rise in D~rug Arrests by NeiE Routman World News Editor With the election ofPrime MinisterEhud Barak, relationships among countriesin the Middle East are rapidly being altered The leaderoftheLabor Party is predictedtornake a number of changes inlsraeli foreign:policy. The new policies will focus on the P!llestin- ians, Syrians, and Jordanians. Barak has 43 days iri which to fom a. new government; the members of his terurn will be extremely important in Baral\'s plans. Barak is currently taking advice fromall of his political allies. Alon Lie I, Barak's politi- cal and diplomatic advisor, said, \If anything, he listens to too much advise.\ His team includes Moshe Gaon, a politi- cal coor{!inator who assisted with the use ()f American strategies from the same group who elected Preside11t Cl iilton twice:. The team also includes former military per~on­ nel. Matan Vilnai, a fonner deputy chi~f~of­ statf, is n()W cochairing Barak's coaliti<Jnne- gotiatingteam, Haggai Shalom is acting chief of administration. and A Ion Pinkas, a f<lnner graduate teacher at Georgetown University, is a political advisor. The team is eagerly focused on n<lt mak- ing the same mistakes committed by the Netanyahu administration: alienatingvoliti'- cal allies, which led to numerous resigna- tions from the cabinet. Most of tiles~ af:lvi- sors are young- Moshe Goan is in hiswen- ties~and are ready to implement plans for peace. Barak has already defined his ad111 in- istration as one of peace; he wishes to con- tinue the path that Prime Minister Rabin had set before being assassinated- within min- utes of his pronounced victory Barak vis- ited the site of Rabin's death. Barak ltas proposed a ten-point plan in foreign and domestic policy, including a with- drawal fr()m Lebanon within a year. Islamic freedom fighters have clashed with Israeli soldiers for years in a hopeless situation for both sides; Lebanon is the equivalent of America's Vietnam. However, Barak's plan does not i11clude negotiations with Syria, by David Gruber Staff Writer TfJe nineties have brought much prosper- ity to Ameri~a-economically, politically, and socially. Connected to each of these branches is education and its increase in: aspirirng applicants. Yet un<lerneath aH of the hypt involved In attendiflg college, col- lege officials have recently reported that there 1\as been a rise in dr11g and alcohol arrests. something that many advisors and office- Formorethansixconsecutiveyears, there holders are prepared to address. has bee11 a sharp growth in drllg-related ar- Newly cmwned Jordanian King Abdul1ah rests. l11 11)97. for instance,. \drug arrests has recently visited the United States in an rose by seven percent and alcohol arrests effort to spark diplomatic negotiations be- by moreth.an three percen1 <lncollege cam- tween Israel and Syria with help from the ·. puses,'' acc()rding to a survey being released Clinton Administration. \Ithink Syria real• on Monday by The Chronicle of Higher izes that it's missed the boat on several oc- Educati<m, a national newspaper on educa- casions, a11d n<Jw here's an opportunity to tion andacademic life. startagain,.,thekingsaid. \Arid[ don'tthink Bec~mse of this upsurge, colleges have that another opportunity will come up again,\ begun t() pay more attention to campus Barak is in a position to accommodate safety-in effect, college administrations nearly all parties. He has pledged to keep through<>llt th~ nation have distributed more Jerusalem .a united city but has responded funds towards security. Based on the an- favorably t<l the concept of Palestinian con- · nual stu~y, \There were 7 ,81:)7 drug arrests trol over parts of city and religious relics. in I991,up from 7,370 in 19~6. and 17,624 He appears to be pro-Palestinian statehood, alcohol anests, up from 17 ,Ol9 in 1996.\ In gaining the support of nearly all Palestin- lieu ofihesestatistics, S, Daniel Carter, Vice ians, and curbing isolated Jewish settlements · · President ofSecurity on Campus Inc., a non- in Arab districts. profit crganization that works with major If Barak. is able to negotiate with Syria colleges 11nd universities, remarked, \There and avoid c<Jnflicts with right-wing Israelis, is greaier attention to security concerns at Barak has the opportunity to bring real peace colleges tJecause the consumers-parents- to the Middle East. forced sch(){)lS to make camp11ses safer.\ Parents don't want to send their sons and daugbters tocolleges where administrations are n<lt adequately dealing with safety is- sues. What parent would send his/her ch.ild to a school where drug-related arrests, se:x assaults, btnglaries, and so forth are a com- mon aspect of college life? Instead, parents wanU() see that administrations are dectling with tbese sort of issues with vigor and struc- ture. While it is impossible to totally curb of- fenders from college campuses, it is n()tun- thinkable to greatly limit the number. A plall- sible inference is the fact that, .according to natiotJal trends, \The number of robberies and burglaries feU nine percent in 1996 and .eightpercent in 1997, for a total of 14,83 7 .in 1997. Motor vehicle thefts were down by nine percent .. Reports of aggravated assau]ts were down~ and the number of murders on campus fell after increases in the previ()us two years, :1tcm 15 in 1995 to I 9 in I996to 13 in 1997.\ This is good news, proving that increasing security does pay off. There is still more work to be done, how- ever, in connection with drug and alcol1ol arrests as well as sex offenses. The point C)f the matter remains-parents are concerned f<lr the well-being oftheir children and colleges are beginn iilg to realize this. Safety is atop priority on most campuses these days and as the next millennium ap- proaches, administmtions will needto stress this even more-otherwise, the applicant could l:,e greatly affected and subsequently the reputation ()f that school could be tar- nished. F - - M: AA AE\ AM BI BI BI BI CE CH CH cs EE EE EG EG FR GE GR HS HS HS' HS' IM JP: ~ ME: MT: MT: PH' PH' PH: PSI PS' PS' RU: SOl SOl SPl M)J AAl rut CHl EiGl E'Rl PH: PH: PS< PS: PS: soc SP1 1-D AAl AcC ANl AN~ BIC BI< CEF CEI CEF ECC ECC ECC EGI GEC GMJ ML'I PHI PSC PSC PS'Y soc soc soc WST t.D1 esc esc EER MER MTfl MTH SPN TOE AAH BIO BIO CER CHM CHM CHN CLS CLS t:LS esc EER ESC ESC GER GER HST HST HST HST HST HST HST PHY PSY

F:inalExath$chedule QJ.llnc.o:r.l:tien~is • May 27 ~ 1999 • Page 11 Final Exam Schedule Spring L 999 · AAH*013*0l - · Intro to Art History - 3 A:FR*025*01 Black Religion AMU*024*01 Ha,ydh, Mozart, Beethoven BI0*012*02 CelLs & Organi!jlmS w/Lab BI0*025*01 Molecular Bio of Cell w/Lab BI0*128*01 Aquatic Biology w/Lab BIO*l47*01 IIilmunology w/Lab CER*161*01 Highwy Ehgg/Route Survey w/Lab CHM*152*01 Physical CheJTlistry 2 w/Lab CHN*012*m Basic 'Chinese 3 CSC*037*01 Structured Prograrrnning EER*Q48*01 Semiconductor Devices & Circts EER*100*01 Electrical Engineering History EGL*022*01 Major li)merican Authors 1 EGL*·040*01 Worl<;i qf the Bible FRN*Oll*01 Basic French 2 GE0*016*0l. Oceanography w/Lab GRK*012*01 Greek Reading m3T*058*01 The Holocaust HST*076*0l Black .Religion HST*083*01 Mystics, Magic & Witchcraft HST*121*01 Ame:r:- Constitutional/Legal Hist IMP*013*01 Int Math/Physics 3 w/Lab JPN*l32*0i Advanced Intem Japanese III l¢\T*012*01 Latin Reading MER*OSO*Ol Heat Transfer Anal/Desgn w/Lab MTH*031 *01 Linear Algepra & Diff Equation NTH*053*0l Visualizing the 4th Dimension PHY*017*01 General Physics 1 w/Lab PHY*045*01 Tl:J.e Solar System PHY*045*02 The Solar System PSC*060*01 Policy Making & Amer Society PSY*OlO*Ol Intro to Psychology PSY*038*01 Developmental Psychology RUS*'012*01 Basic Russian 3 SOC*OlO*Ol Intro to Sociology SOC*138*01 Africa:Social & Demographic SPN*121*0? Intermediate Spanish 2 t«JNDAY, .. Jt:a 7_, 1999 - 11:30 1\M :- 1:30 PM AAH*045*01 contemporary Art & Archi tee ANT*015*01 Intro to Archaeology CHM*016*01 Inorganic Chemistry 1 w/Lab EGL*066*01 Victorian Detective Fiction FRN*121*01 Intermediate French 2 PHY*015*01 Physics/Life Sciences 1 w/Lab PHY*Ol5*02 Physics/Life Sciences 1 w/Lab PSC*142*01 Urban Political Problems PSY*030*01 Personality PSY*045*01 History &: .Systems in Psy<:;h SOC*01D*02 Intra to Sociology SPN*120*01 In~ermediate Spanish 1 MJNDAY, JUNE 7, 1999- 2:30- 4:30PM AAH*017*01 Pilgrima\T.e 1 :St.James-Santiago ACC*010*0.1 .-.'survey of A6counti:h<i .. . ANT*050*01 Women in Cross-Cultural Persp ANT*OBO.*Ol North American Indians BIO*Oll*Ol Contemporary Biology w/Lab BIO~OSl*Ol Ecology w/Lab CER-012-03 Comp Aided Graph & Draft CER*022*01 CE Materials w/Lab CER*153*01 Wastewater Treatment w/Lab EC0*041*01 Microeconomic Analysis EC0*125*01 Efficient Mgmt of Technology ECO*l51*01 Monetary Economics EGL*055*01 Shakespeare to 1600 GEO*OSO*Ol Petrology w/Lab GMI*151*51 Monetary Economics MLT*029*01 Pilgrimag~ 1 :St. James-Santiago PHL*035*ql Philosophy in America PSC*012*01 Intro International Politics PSC*066*01 Presidential Poiitics PSY*025*01 Experimental Psych w/Lab SOC*010*03. Intro to Sociology SOC*022*01 Social Problems & Policy SOC*132*01 Public Health:Cultural Perspec WST*090*01 Women in Cross-Cultural Persp ~. JUNE 7, 1999 - 4:45 - 6:45 P.M CSC*144*51 Functional Programming CSC*236*51 Computer Network Protocols EER*236*51 Computer Network Protocols MER*205*51 Metallurgy Principles MTH*015*01 Calculus 3 MTH*015*02. Calculus 3 SPN*011*02 BaJ>iC Spanish 2 TUESDAY, .JJJNE B, 1999 - 8:30 - 10:.30 -'\M AAH*021*01 The Modern City BIO*l30*Ql Animal Physiology w/Lab ~ BI0*140*01 Molecular Genetics w/Lab CER*144*01 Geotechnical Engg w/Lab CHM*040*01 Quantitative Chemistry w/Lab CHM*l18*01 Inorganic Chemistry 2 w/Lab CHN*120*01 Intennediate Chinese 1 CLS*025*01 History of Rome CLS*025*02 History of Rome CLS*043*01 Classical My.thology CSC*040*01 Computer Organization EER*050*01 Analog Communications w/Lab ESC*023*01 Mech 3:Strength of Mat w/Lab ESC*023*02 Mech 3:Strength of Mat w GER*121*01 Intennediate German 2 GER*122*01 Advanced German HST*014*01 History of US Since Civil War HST*014*02 History of US Since Civil War HST*014*03 History of US Since Civil War HST*036*01 History of Europe 2 BST*036*02 History of Europe 2 HST*050*01 Wes.tern Imperialism HST*168*01 History of Modern India PHY*042*01 Ideas of Modern Physics PSY*020*01 Statistical ·Methods/Psychology Eyerman, C. Corley, S. McMullen, D. Crawford, A .. w. Salvo, .J.L. Tobiessem, P _ Lauzon, R. Wolfe, F.A. Hayes, D. Feng, J.P. Green, E. A. Chang, Y. Spinelli, J. Slade, L. Heinegg,, P. Batson, C. Brandriss, M.E. Mace, s. Berk, S. Corley, S. Sargent., s. Henry, S .• Barbanel/Dunn Khan, Y. Scullion, J.. S Wilk, R. Zulli, 1. Cervone, D .• P. Koopman, R. Su.rtnan, R. Marr, J. Underwood, J. Greenberg, s. Stanhope, L. Jordan, B. Cotter, D. aenefo, K.D. Camacho-Platero, L. Eyerman, C. Cesarski, E- Scaife, c. Park, H. Van Deventer, S. DeBattista, R .• Khosropour, N. Gilman, T. Spring, D. Donaldson, G. 'Benefo, K. D. Mosquera, D. Mi3;tthew/Martinez tippitt, jeanette Gtnelch, s. Bishop, c. Willing, R. Brown, G. Gremillion, P _ Ghaly, A. Snow, P. Reynolds, B. Schmidt, S.S. Rafferty, M. Heinegg, P. Hollocher, K. Rafferty, M. Matthew/Martinez Ludwig, J. Lobe, T. Brown, C. Marling, B. Grigsby, J. Relyea., L.G. Goldner, M.A. Gmelch, s. Hemmendinger;D Spinelli, J. Spinelli, J. Milillo, F. Rosenthal, K. Rosenthal, K. Mochon, M. Young, M.S. Fleishman, L. Horton, J. S. Ghaly, A. We:r-ne:r, T. Hagerman, M. Feng, J.P. Toher, M. Balot, R. Sorum, c. Hemmendinger, D. Hassib, E:. Bunk, D. Blinn, M. Hamm-E:hsani, K Hamm-Ehsani, K ]!'effer, A .. Henry, s. Mille;r:; A. T. Berk, S. Walker, M. Hansen, E. Dias, M. Schick, K. Stanhope, L. 'l'UESJAY, ~ 8 1 1999 • 11:30 AM- 1:30 EM ARTS 2;1.5 AAH.;,~029*01 American Art ARTS 109 · AMU~012*01 Langua~e of Mu::;ic ARTS 313 CfiN.~.Q10*.01 Basic Chinese 1 BAIL 106 EER~066*01 Control Systems w/Lab HUMN 019, FRN~012*01 Basic French 3 BAIL 102 ~*130*01 Modem France/France actuelle STZH 106 GER*011*01 Basic German 2 OLIN 110 GRK,-.138*01 Greek Lyric & Elegiac Poetry BOTR 300 HEB\'012*01 Basic Hebrew 3 OLIN 1 0 5 HST\'028*01 African-Amedcan History 1 HUMN ° 14 HST\'071*01 Mode~· History of Middile East NWSE 222 HST*l69*01 Colonialisrn/Iruperialism:Asia NWSE 210 JPii1*012*01 Basic Japanese 3 HUMN 112 115 Ml'H'\'Ol2*01 GalcuJ.us 2 H!JMN sscr 010 PHY\\056*01 Intern Electromagnetis;:m w/Lab OLIN 307 PSC'\'013*01 Intro to Political Thought HUMN 113 PSY*'010*02 Intro to Psychology COLC PSY*'033*01 Psych of Memory & ThinJdng SPN*'Oll*Ol Basic Spanish 2 ARTS 10.9 SSCI 112 SPN*'\012*02 Basic Spanish 3 HUMN 114 TUES!!ilAY, JUNE 8, 1999 - 2 :30 - 4:.30 1M NWSE 112 MH*'\036*01 Hist .of Gardens/Landscape Arch SSCI 213 ANT*'097*01 East Asian Developnent ART.S 210 BI0*'036*01 Invertebrate Zoology w/Lah NWSE 205 CSC*'160*51 Software Engineering BAIL 201 EAS*'014*01 East Asian Developnent)Society SSCI 014 EC0*\014*01 East ,Asian Developnent)So<;:iety NWSE 300 · Eco~c042*01 Macro Theory & Policy NWSE 114 EGU019*01 Major English Authors 1 BUTR 109 ESC*\01BA*01 Canputer Science HUMN 117 ESCJc01BA*02 Computer Science BAil;. ~12 HST'\116*01 Origins of American Society BAIL 104 HST* 167*01 East Asian Development)Society OLIN 211 PHL* 073*01 Environmental Ethics BAIL 207 PSC*019*01 East Asian Development}Society SSCI 105 PSY*024*01 Social. Psychology HUMN 116 PSY*03l*Ol Abno:rmal Psychology PSY*046*01 Intro to Psychobiology ARTS 215 SOC*024*01 Social Psychology SSCI 110 SOC*051*01 Race, Class&Gender in America OLIN 204 STA* 111 *01 Intra Nathematical Statistics HUMN 110 WST*~83*01 Race, Class&Gender in Anerica HUMN 117 TOE~, JUNE 9, 1999- 4:45 ~ 6:45 2M NWSE 1H CER*012*01 Conp Aided Graph & Draft w/Lab NWSE 116 CSC*Ol0*01 Computers & Computing OLIN 211 CSC*Ol0*02 Computers & Computing BAIL 312 CSC*010*03 Computers & Computing BAIL 300 CSC*075*51 Computer Logic & Math SSCI 103 CSC*J29*51 Neural Networks HUMN 019 CSC*J52*51 Microprocessors CSC*231*51 Computer Langvage Translators ARTS 215 • · EER*J49*?~ Neural N\'two,rf:s w/Lab BAIL 106 EER*152*51 Microprocessors SSCI 10 3 C11I*262*51 Intnl Bus & Competitive Theory SSCI OlO MER*201 *51 Transport Phenomena HOMN 019 MER*260*51 Nuclear Engineering & ?.echnlgy ~= ~~~ STA*202*51 Statistical Methods 'lUE&lAY, JUNE 8' 1999 - 7: 00 - 9: 00 lM. BUTR 300 1.=.:===-- ..;:;.:=-=-~=~__;;..:...;.;;.__;;.;:..;.;::;_;:= BUTR 109 CER*D12*02 Cornp Aided Graph & Draft w/Lab SSCI 014 . CER*L31*51 Structural Steel Design w/Lab OLIN 10 6 EER*226*51 OptimaL Control SysterrB BAIL 100 MER*216*5l Finite Element Methods in Engg HOMN' 117 ~DY, JUNE 9, 1999- 9:30 - 10:30 AM OLIN· 332 BIO*Cl12*01 Cells & Organisms w/Lab BAIL 100 BIO*L60*01 Histology & Organology ~!Lab ARTS 215 CER*L60*01 Transportation Engg w/Lab HUMN 110 CLS*~31*01 Survey of Ancient Epic ARTS 109 EGL*()7S*\Ol Late 19th Century Amer Lit BAIL 201 GE0*~12*01 Environmental Geology w)Lab OLIN 307 GER*CH2*01 Basic Ger:man 3 HUMN l15 HST*CF44*01 The Second World War Era BAIL 207 JPN*122*01 Intermediate Japanese 3 SSCI 104 MER*():26*01 Thermodynamics SSCI 103 MER*0·45*\01 Dynamics & Kinematics w/Lab NWSE 116 NWSE 114 NWSE 114 NWSE 222 BAIL 207 BAIL 207 HUMN 114 MTH*():11C*Ol calculUS with Precalc 3 MTH*Ol7*01 calculus 4 :I:ntegral Vector MTH*099*01 Intro:Logic & Set Theory MTH*l30*01 OornpleK Analysis MTH*l32*01 Abstract Algebra 1 PHY*019*01 General Physics 3 w/Lab POR*Ol0*01 Basic l?ortuguese 1 PSY*034*01 Psychology of Language Yooog, M.S. McMullen, D. Feng, J.P. Fatic, V. Leamon, A. Batson, C. Warde/Kellenter Balot, R. Almog, M. Miller, A. T. Berk, s. Dias, M. Khan, Y. Hart, J.E. Newman, J. Marso, L.J. DeBono, K. Gree!ilierg, S. I zurieta, I. Witkins~ M. Matthew, L. Reynolds, B. Boyer, B. Alrnstead, L. Reynolds, B. Reynolds, B. Rafferty, M. Rilles, C. Hannay, D. Hannay, D. WelLs, R. Reynolds, B. Vitek, W. Reynolds, B. Morling, B. VanSlyck,. M. Weisse, C. Marling, B. Goldner, M.A. Schmee, J. Goldner, M.A. Spangler, C.H. Almstead, L. Hedrick, J. N. Glynn, M. Traver, c. Rudko, M. Gajjar, J. Green, E. A. Rudko, M. Gajjar, J. Chudzik, M. Sha.nebrook, R. Wicks, F. Oppenlander, J Spangler, C.H. Griggs, F. Fatic, V. !;'eat, W. D. Danowski, B. Smith, G. Wolfe, F.A. Mac;e, s .. MacCOnald, B. Rodbell, D. Warde/Kellenter Hansen, E. Wojnovich, M. Shanebrook, J. Bucinell, R. Taylor, A. Frame, M. Cervone, D.P. Zulli, L. Niefield, S. Newman, J. Villela, S. DAndrea, T. Garcia, w_ SPN*Ol2*01 Basic Spanish 3 SPN* 121 *01 Intennediate Spanish 2 Witkins,M HUMNII6 WEDNli:SDAY ( JONE 9 I 1999 - l.l: 30 AM - 1:30 IM CER*L51 *01 Hydraulics w/Lab Jewell, T _ ECO*()l2*\01 Introduction to Economics Tornljanovich, M. EC0*()12*02 Introduction to Economics Tomljanovich, M. GE0*()'53*01 Structural Geology w/Lab Garver, J. I. Ml'H*Cl60*01 Mathematical Political Science Taylor, A. MTH*()60*02 Mathematical Political Science Zimnemann, K. MI'H*L35*01 Number Theory Johnson, B. PSC*~23*01 Mathematics & Politics Taylor, A. PSC*()-23*02 Matherratics & Politics Zinmennann, K. WEDNE:~ r JONE 9, 1999 - 2: 30 - 4: 3() lM CHM*~l2k01 Fund Chemistry 2 w/Lab CHM*~l2k02 Fund Chemistry 2 w/Lab PHY*[)18k01 GeneraL Physics 2 w/Lab PHY*~l8*02 General Physics 2 w/Lab PHY*l21*01 Observational Astronomy Martinez, L. J. Hagerman, M. Reich, G. DeBattista, N. Koq:mann, R. ARTS 215 ARTS 313 OL]N 105 NWSE 210 OLIN 211 HWN 014 HUMN 115 HUMN 113 sscr 10s sscr 103 SSCI 104 SSCI 110 ~213 BAI:L 100 NWSE: 303 ART'S 109 BAI:L 312 BAI:L 300 HUMN 112 BAI:L 102 ARTS 215 SSCI 112 BAIL 106 OLIN 106 SSCI 112 SSCI 112 SSCI 103 HUMN 114 HUMN 019 HUMN 019 SSC'E 110 SSCI 112 HUMN 112 SSCI 112 BAIL 300 BAIL 312 BAIL 104 BAIL 312 BAIL 201 BAIL 100 BAIL 201 BUTR 106 OLIN 306 OLIN 307 OLIN 107 NWSE Ll6 BAIL L04 OLIN 106 STZH L06 BAIL 104 OLIN 106 HUMN 019 NWSE 222 NWSE 205 OLIN 307 BUTR 106 BUTR 300 NWSE 116 NWSE: 205 SSCI 014 BAIL 207 STZH 106 HUMN 110 SSCI 110 OLIN 307 HUMN 115 SSCI 104 HUMN 213 NWSE 222 NWSE 205 :MIL 100 OLIN 107 BAIL 102 BAIL 106 BAIL 104 NWSE: 116 HUMN 117 BAIL 300 HUMN 014 OLIN 307 OLIN 115 OLIN US OLIN 332 BAIL 100 BAIL 207 HUMN 014 BAIL 100 BAIL 207 OLIN ll5 OLIN 115 NWSE 116 NWSE 114 OI,IN 3()1 ARTS 210 HUMN 014 BAIL 312 BUTR 300 STZH 106 OLIN 204 SSCI 213 HtJMN 115 HUMN 117 ARTS 215 OLIN 106 NWSE 116 HUMN 019 HUMN 019 HUMN 119 HUMN 119 SSCI 112 HUMN 114 SSCI 103 SSCI 104 OLIN 115 ARTS 109 BAIL 106 NWSE 114 BAIL 300 Visit the Concordy website at: http://concordy. union.edu

; age12 • May 27, 1999 • Just a New Beginning by Michelle Tham Editor-in-Chief Emerita The summerbefore I left for col- treshly mowed grass for hours. t() 'believe that this is the end. For web of structure a11d security. I ding us into strong people, filled lege, still fresh out of high school, Shaking the green blades, still aU of my overdramatic insanity, cannot fear the future, though. with understanding and so much was bittersweet. I was so scared to smelling fresh and clean, from my childhood reminiscence and mind- None ofus should. wisdom in our hearts. :leave behind everything I had ever hair. Laughing dreamily at the ants less chatter about self~discovery, I What is fear, anyway? I mean, When l was 17, I read James known. I was excited for the pros- running swiftly across my legs. grew up a lot. why are we as human beings Joyce'sA PortraitojtheArtistas pect of.liv ing away from home, but Holding handfuls of dirt and let .. So here it is, that final amble afraid of anything new? I &m not a You11g Man. That book has had was devastated to part with my ting them sift through my fingers, down this long, winding road that sure why we enjoy finding con- a inexplicable hold over me ever friends. I spent the last few weeks like.acloudofquietmagic. Wash- seemed so endless when I first tentntent, why we revel in being since. Joyce writes and believes writing them all letters, promising ing my hands before dinner and startecl on it Kindergarten to el- stable. There are some wbo adore that the meaning behind it all' is, them that we would be bonded for- feeling the cold, green bar of Irish ementary school to junior high to risks, who go flying off to Paris \To li\e to err, to fall, to triumph, ever, that nothing would ever Spring melt away the germs that h.igh school to coBege and then on a whim with a backpack and to recreate life out oflife!\ And I change how close we were in those . would· have otherwise attacked me where? I feared coming here once brown bag. lunch in hand. Jam not hope that I can do that. I hope that preciousmoments. And now, years for .sure, Or so my mother said, or and now this place is more home one of those people. l have been I can feel everything around me later, lam really only close with a maybe it was my father, I am not than my white cGloni·al with black searching for the wildness in my and experience what is ahead, handful of them. I found new sure which. But that was life, a shutters and hardwood floors. My veins and found only a few at- knowing all the while that it is all friendships and relationships with time to be so innocent, to sleep \It is time to tempts at windsurfing and maybe just different ways of living. Be• people at college. I don't regret safely in the crisp kindness of a some cliffdiving. Not much more ing alive entails feeling, entails that, and l do not lament the pass- warm home and find comfort in ·hold my own than that. I have al~ays enjoyed being tossed back and forth in an ing of past friends from my life. the bubbles of a bar of soap. being comfortable, holding close onslaught of joy, pain, laughter Sometimes \new and different\ is When did it all get so compli- .ground and push a select group of friends, not re- and heartache. better, sometimes you never know cated? If I could capture that one ally wanting much more than And with Joyce's words, I move that \better\ was out there because spark of time that brought with it awayfrom this quiet satisfaction. Never taking on and hold back these soft tears you were too afraid to risk looking research papers and insurance any major risks, that have been building at the base for it. cards and checking accounts, and warm nest that Now, though, I am ready for of my stomach over the past few Life is a series of transitions. We took away my Pogo-Ball and De- something much different. I am weeks. '[ move ahead an~ grasp fall in and out of this pulsing con- luxe-Space Station LEGO set. If I coddled me in finally ready to etnbark on that with a:ll my might the past that is tinuum of familiarity and new ex- could capture that moment, would sheltered bliss. \ interesting journey called life. I behind me, I will try to hold onto perience. It is a strange adventure. I turn time back, wollld I keep dose my eyes and hold back a my friends and memories. carry- All of it, searching for some sort myself at age nine forever? salty flood ofmem<>ry, love and ing them with me into this next of reason behind every action we Impossible of course. lt's point- home is held in a room that is time. I c1ose my eyes and step phase. I will not write letters of take and every emotion we feel. I less to consider something that k.itchen, bedroom, and living room forward in the dark, hoping that good-bye to them because that do not know why I am here or even cannot occur. But I think of these all in one. My home is held in the there will be ground in front of can't be what this is. where I am going, but I do know things. I think too much maybe, familiar smiles of my friends. My me to hold my feet stable to the Funny how someone else's that my life is about figuring that but that is in my nature. To think home is in a pictun album filled earth. I am takingabig leap, now. words give me so much courage, out. Maybe all of this growing up so hard that it llurts a little. Col- with faces that shared my tears and I am going there. Medical school. and J()yce's voice speaks to me, will simply lead me to see that there lege is over for me and the real spurred my laughter. How can I And for anyone else who is forces me to see, \ ... that [ may really are no answers to all of these stuff is on its way. How do I deal leave this place? And the thing is, I ... leaving, it is the same thing. There learn in my own life and away questions that dance across my with that? Maybe if I ponder that bave to. It is time for me to move is someplace that is not here. And from heme and friends what the mind. Either way, I am doing this fact, mull over it gently, then I can on and find experience in new, clif- whatever it is that I find in that heart is and what it feels. Amen. now. I am living through change make peace with it. I want to find ferent forms. It is time to hold my foreign world of new faces and So be it. Welcome, 0 life ... \ and try ina to find something true some comfort in leaving Union own ground and push away from unfamiliar scenery, I will work to I listen to his words and softly amidst all the uncertainty. College and in embarking on this this warm nest that coddled me in make my own. I will work to find say good-bye. Not to people and I have lived some 20 years of life, strange amusement park ride that sheltered bliss. comfort again. But I kn.o.)f_J.hat hearts, but to this place. and find myself so much more con- has yet to be completed, whose Whether it is medical school, law when I finally make that new ·sorneth:ingnew is beckoning me fused now than at any other point tracks are laid down just a moment school, consulting or simply trav- place a haven for comfort, then I with its siren call, and I can'tseem in my brief existence. I can only before I reach them. elling, those plans that ensue for will inevitably have to leave to deny its plea. recall that life as a little kid was so I have written this column ev- everyone after leaving college also again. And that is h.ow it goes. And here is no longer so inter- simple. Lying carelessly on the ery week for three years now. Hard mean leaving behind a very safe Over and over. Experience moul- esting, it is time to go there. The Weekly Word Search by Amanda Jackson F T A R S H A E A M I T 8 M L E N 0 E R A M T H G I N FBACKTOTHEFUTUREAMSBHAEACET LFECOOAALNCDAPRETTYINPINKRY BEOAACANTBUYMELOVEETUESMAIH E Y E Y C L K L I D I L E 0 D Y A E M E I L F T T F S V V Y S A H Y T Y B I L T E T D E N I Y N M R H T S S ESBEIDESADMWOINETWNEBDESDON R E U E S X S S T I M L G M P I M 0 V R K D A T T M 0 LVLWETTRUALGKLTYTLIILENSNLI Y I C I U L M E E 8 V S M F I E E F M C D W 0 A A E L HRTBSTOEELSUNSAYANYTHINGTTL IDSLGAEIDNLIVDWATKORJAAIMSI LOAKIRUJKRCEAICIDNOMCOMLPUM LTFORKEEPSKAUBBARAMFEOSAHOS SEKXTHSMOIBANBMHEWLHAHCSNTR CSAIFOYOLSEILDSALTRNAETRRME 0 N E E D R T S R I E S I M L I B L I D B A I 8 E 0 T P E R 0 A I D L N E N I F X A E R A L A E T\ E .S 0 B S 0 C B L S I E V S L I S N I E T S R L A H H E 8 M 0 W UIEEHLTAGNEHROTBSLEWEECAFOE C L H P T N T H E T V T S A 0 N S F G F I R S E E Y R WMTHENEVERENDINGSTORYSTMARB FAVORITE 80'S MOVIES BACK TO THE FUTURE BEACHES BEVERLY HILLS COP BREWSTER'S MILLIONS CANT BUY ME LOVE COCKTAIL DIRTY DANCING FERRIS BUELLERS DAY OFF GOONIES GREMLINS HEATHERS LABAMBA LICENSE TO DRIVE NIGHTMARE ON ELM ST PRETTY IN PINK SAY ANYTHING SIXTEEN CANDLES . SPACEBALLS STANDBY .ME ST ELMOS FIRE TEEN WOLF THE BREAKFAST CLUB THE MONEY PIT THENEVERENDING STORY i. ~· ~ l l ' l )

This is an open letter tothe Class of 1999, As you enter life's highway of jobdom, don't ever forget your amazing times here. Maybe you didn't have. a good time here, but if you didn't, then this letter doesn't apply to you. Maybe you shouldn't have studied on Friday nights forfouryears. Buti digress. Oh seniors, howcan you forgetthe fornication on the dance floor csa- rah Rome), the vomit on the toilet seat that missed the bowl (Jeremy Spiegel), that spring term pass/fail class which you simply never at- tended (all of you). Wbile it is a shame that your last few weeks here are tainted by the threat of GHB being on this campus. (due to Cuban smugglers Tom. Humphreys, and T.J. Yarkony), and even rumors of urine in the punch, please, a toast to your graduation. riNKTINKTJNK \To living single, sleeping double, and seeing triple!\ Hear Hear. Since many of you have thanked me for making you laugh every Thursday {even death threats by Jeremy Lynch if l don't write one week), let me thank you for some- thing. Most of you will unexpect- edly be starring in the new HBO special: Naked-Nott Run Contes- sions From the Class of 1999. That includes you~ Raquel Millman. My hidden vide·o cam'- era has several hundred hours of juicy footage, separated by class. Y()u won'tbelievewhatpeople say to each other wh.en they chase S()meone else's bare butt in a circle. Qualitystuff. Ohand Erika Migiliaccio, you will be the main star. So, back to your memories, se• 11iors. Remember the time when J()sh Chaplin won the race for stu- dent rep? Or when Hope Arnoldt mooned President Hull? How a..bout when Thomas Hipple sat in ill:isroomandplayed video games? Or when Johnny \Bonor\ Smith .a..1e 500Union squirrels in an hour? Wllo can forget when Brian Goldberg, Scott Stedman and La..rry Gutman created a new Uetne house out of facial hair. Oh tile memories. But these memories will be re- membered the most.. I bet all.of you seniors will miss the thrill of fi11ding a job through the CDC {Jamie Bunchuk is one example), l'lo()king up with as many people as you can during Spring Term because you will never see most of these people again (Laura VanVarick is an example ofthis), preparing for the GMA T (Dina Bronstein), building that Senior Gift Gazebo from scratch because someone spent the Senior Gift ·money on kegs for Senior Week C {)h, Zandman). Let's not forget the theories that have been proved by the cJ·ass of 1999. Dana Linde and Dan Got tews? Concerned Clbout the future ofllion? Have ideas about W1at: that should be? Fill out Mddle States Surveys ONLINE! Feldman's concrete evidence that couples can actually last for four yeGrs without killing each other. J'anci Karp's time machine. Katie Farrell and Kate Swanson's attack on the corruption ofNik€. Heath Fradk()ff s j>roofthat nude photos arenotathing of the past. Kirsten Lauber's four-year boycott o.f Geppetto's monopoly of 99-cent specials. Please, I beg all of you gradu- ates to came visit as often as you ca:n. Except for you soon to he super-seniors, who will bestaying here(nYou can getjiggy wit next year's freshmen by telling them that you work Jor Microsoft. You can get .rowdier than the current students do dming Alumni week- elld (How many sketchy alumni were here last weekend?). What~ ever you do,. take care of your sh()es~ and make 'sure to come back foryour l 0-year R;eUnion(Get it? Uni()n' s reunion. What a .great play oil words.) Here's.why: TtJp Ten Things That Will Hap- pen to Union in the Next 10 Years Thfl.t,ShouldMake the Class of99 Wont to Come Back a11d Visit 1'0. There will be, roughly, 20 beautiful Admissions buildings. (One ()n the 50-yard line, one next to Larnont House, one on each side of Smith House, etc.) 9. All the on-campus parking spots will be handicapped spots. Fm all those ilandicapped people at this school. 8. Mass voice mail wiii have been replaced by hovering anten- nas that shoot mind beams into your brain to inform you of the copyright problems with Star Wars. 7. Union's division 5 hockey team and Division I rugby team. will be the talk of the town. 6. All gf Schenectady will be • owned by Union, creating more. work-study escort jobs for the. townsfolk, who wiHalsobe owned by Union. 5. Sprockett will still be going to school here, and you can drop by and say hi to him. 4. Unien actors will all be act- ing exclusively at Skidmore and SUNY-Albany for the Actor-Ex- change Program for arrogant I ittle s**ts. 3. The School of Americas (whatever the hell that is) will still be an issue to discuss. 2. Instead of tight black cloth- ing, the \in fashion\ will be pure cellophane wrap. 1. Michelle Tham, Michelle Tham, Michelle Tham. On a serious note, I would like to bid a fond farewell to all those graduating. Alas I will not be join- ing you, since I'm a junior. r would like to thank those that I've met who have given me hope in mankind. And you know who you are. Laterz.' ·May 27, 19~9. · Page 13 Pointless Tr .. ·a lVI *A woman's !teart beats faster than a man's *Bob Dylan!s,real name is Rob- ert ZimmermaJJ. He changed it in honor ofDylan rllomas *Napolean su tfered from ailuro- phobia, the fe~r Df cats. *The first table tennis ball was a champagne cOtrkand the paddles were cigar bo:x lids. *Tug-of-wav ~as an Olympic event from 19-0!>-1~20. *Every citi:zen of Kentucky is required by l_a\.V 1() take a bath once a year *All the cloc\s in the movie Pulp Fiction a.re stuck on 4:20. *Donald Drncl< comics were once banned inFi11fand because he doesn't wear paiDts. *What do H~rry Andersen, Cindy Crawfor•d and (Weird) Al Yankovic have ill common? They were all valedictorians. *According!() Tbe Fanners Al- manac- To test yam love, you and. your lover sllot~ld .each place an acorn in wate~- If they swim to- gether, your l<rve is true; if they drift apart, so \\.'.ill: you. *One has f() e;at ll pounds of po- tatoes to put 011 1 pound of weight- -a potato has no more calories than an apple. *A raisin dr~>pped .in a glass of fresh champa.gr1e will bounce up and down cetnti11ually from the bottom ofthe g la.ss to the top. *There are no words in the En- glish language th.at rhyme with month, orange, silver, or purple·. www.afnolutetrivia. com Need a Little Snack While Getting a Little Sun in Fro11t of the Library? Fast Ready Easy Dutch An easy way to grab a quick bite without going r-- -------------- _G_!ll:~J:!.er~---- I I .I I I I I I RITE AID - Photo Processing Go to RITE AID for All of Your Photo Needs . . ~ IL':\.\ ht I http://vwwv. union.ecfu/PUBUO' ANTDEPT/SURv~:: r'lstudent. m ·I RITE AID is located on Van Franl(en Ave (518) 382-3304 I (sponsored by the atice of the Vice-President) I ~===========================~~------------~--------------~ ·~· - '

'l Page 14 • May 27, 199~ • <!rttU.corbiemsis ,,, .. _.,,,.._,._~-M-- .. -- ......... -~,,,_, _ _,,,, __ ,_~,,,, __ , _ _.,_,_,,_,~··-••••-••o•••-..,o~om- ... ~~ ....... h ... - ...... OOOO ..... O .. O~OO,...._O .. flO<O•nOO~OU~-·· .. --~•->N,. __ ,,._,,~,--MooMo .. -~,,-,, .. ,,,,,,.,,,.,,,, ·ooo ·o o•o>.o· •••••0 ,,,,,,,,,, ,,,. ,,,_, ,,, • •o•o • o HAPPY RA APP'RECIATION DAY! DAVIDSON RISHEETPATEL JOE EHRLICH MONICA GREENMAN COURTNEY FEELEY CHARON O'NEAL WEBSTER ERIC POMERANTZ FOX SEAN FITZGERALD NANDINI PATEL MICHELE MOSA PHILLEEF SOUTH ·COLLEGE FRED VON STEIN JOSH CHAPLIN MIKEWlNN AMI BLU,MENTHAL NORTH COLLEGE NIKHIL SUDAN ELINA TABENSHLAK NICOLE ANDREWS PEGGY SAMEDI WEST COLLEGE MICHELLE SANCHEZ MARIO ,CRUZ SHERI OLIVER DENNIS SANABIA KELLY HOULE JOE JOHNSTON WADE LUPE APARTMENTS HEMW ATIERAMASAMI MAY 27 1999 . . ' JP JONES AAKASH AGARW ALA NIDHY PAULOSE- WENDY ANNE RAMROOP DANETIE SLEVINSKI KRISTEN SLAWINSKI ROSS GUIDA MONET WARREN RICHMOND JEN COMERFORD SARAH AHART SHAHNA COHEN GILLIAN BLAKE PLEASE TAKE THE TIME TO SHOW YOUR RA APPRECIATION TODAY! ·. -·, J.; . ·- . ~- ··r \. \ffiANK YOU RA;S Ff>R ALL <i'fCJURHARD Wo~AND DEDICL\TION TO THE JOB! ... the Office of Residence Life Advertisements ~· I l (

1 l I Science & Tec.hnology QJ:1111cnrhi.ensis • May 27, 1999 • Page 15 . \ - - - - . Science & Technology . . . . . . . . . - From Organ Donor to Recipient by Victoria Hargreaves Science and 'Technology Editor «stain Boy's Legacy Lives On In Effort to Increase Organ_Dona- tions.,' This ironic newspaper headline,. on the one hand, makes us shake our heads in disbelief at the atrocities that llnfairly shorten people's lives, while, on the other, gives us some relief and comfort that at least some good can come out of a tragedy. We hear about people dying due to brain damage and automobile ac- cidents regularly, as do we hear ·about kidney and liver donations, but do we ever consciously con- nect the two events'? For almost every organ donated, someone had to die. Organ procurement teams must sift through thousands of names and.numbers Gn computer- generated lists to determine who is eligible to receive that orgc:m. Orga!ls do not just .ll1agically ap- pear in the recipie11t' sbody; organ transplant teams must vyork lab()ri- ously to retrieve life from death and reconnect lifeintheform of a beat- ing heart or a filteringkidney. How ex.actly does an organ \go\ from a donor to a recipient? When a patient dies in a hospital, that hospital is required by the \rou- tine referral\ law passed in 1998 to contact their affiliated organ pro- curement organizatiGn and tissue ' bank. The bank then decides if this patient is a potential donor, based on a series of criteria such as age, c:ause of deatb, diseases, ami his- tCJry of drug abuse. If the patient is · ·eligible, an orgariprocurement co- or<Unator is dis- :patc:hed to the hos• pital where he or ·s..h e reviews patient's chart. Once brain death is declared by the medical staff, c:()ordinator in f<>rms the family t:he deceased pa- tient about the op- tion of organ dona• tion. The family · given time to m lldedsion .indepen- dently. If the family devides to donate its next of kin's organ(s), the fam- ily sighs permis- s..ion forms, mo tests are performed, lln d the focus is turned to the recipi- ent. Tests are then recipient's body will accept (:)-II\e- ject the organ. For kidneys arud pancreases, a d()se antjgen m.atch is desirable, w:berethe antigens of .. ·~\' ~- ~~ ... ~ ..... ·k .t:.-' ts- ~. - h'K;:~ ~;\\'~~-f.\. l)!'fCA.~JTl$$Ut( [(II ' ' , 1A.\N$P'tA\Nl t,-...,o., · • i~, sizeoftheorgan and the recipi- ent,. and the severity of the recipient's illness. The result~ ()f these additional •tclsts are sent to a onally- based mputer system itored by the ited Network for e, nonprofit uiJ·~rullL.a.ll\Jl created Congt:ess in 1984 team up with the ealth and human ices agency to ibute organs, ntains the na- waiting list has divided the into 11 aBo- regions. All of this infor- >rn~mo'n is then com- and run ugh the com- ters of the local conducted to de- to the recipi- tect HIV, hepatitis, For the one ex- llnd several other the kidney, viral infections. A . .ifapelfectmatchex- t... t . b \l\t www.nytimes.rorn . . h . h u1s ocompatr · t-1 y -.....------------------------ l:lts m t e nation, t e laboratory tests the organ(s) for the donor's organ are similartotl!e l:i{)ney is automatically sent there. tile presence of six antigens, pro- antigens ofthe recipient. For most But since peried matches are rare, teins that activate the immune sys- other organs, allocation is bas.ed most kidneys and all other organs tern andhetpdeterminewhethertlte primarily on blood type(lompati~il- .are allocatecf .first to patients lo- Technological Change • ID the by Steve· Ayers StaffWriter . ' With less than two weeks }eft in the SJ>ring term, many seniors. wil1 be moving on to law school next· fall, but stq~ents who tho1.1ght the profession of law wa~ immune to technology may be surprised. Though the fundamental attributes of a good lawyer may. not have changed, electronic evidence, courtroom presentation, research and copyright issues are all chang- ing the practice of law. For those who fear computers; this could be bad news; for those on good terms with computers, this could be a new opportunity. Upwards of 30% of evidence used today is in the form of elec- tronic media, according to USA Today. This includes emails and data from computer disks. In some divorce cases, users have been tracked by their s<:reen name in Internet Chat rooms. , Corporations have sometimes chosen to sue users for libelous chat room comments. Even when computers are not directly con- nected to a crime, they can some- times provide a good record ofthat individual's activities. Understand- ing these techniques carries a moral imperative, as well as aper- sonal incentive, because it enables a lawyer to offer the best legal ser- vices to their clients. As important as tmderstanding Legal Profession tllese new forms of evidence is, the respondence. Currently, it h;as Journal of Science and Technol- ability to make a jury understand it been certified by the Califo;rttia: ogy discusses a police surveillance c:an be even more important. The Bar Exam; but does not provide technique known as \Passive Mil- use of. DNA evidence in tlte national certifivation. limeter Wave Imaging,\ which OJ. Simpson trial demonstrated For underclassmen plannin~ 1()1 sounds similar to x-ray vis ion. tlle .impor;tance of understanding attend law school, there are ways 'Technological advances have pte- DNA evidence. Animators at in which to prepare for these IJew sented new challenges for pri- Law,atechn()JogycompanyinAI- demands on the legal professioon. '\lacy and intellectual property exandria 1 Virginia, specializes in While the bask skil.ls requireclf<()r ~isputes. co11structingcomputeranimatims the profession may not h aw-e As the supply of Internet site forjuries. changed, acquiring some technl(]- IJames has <liminished, some With the increasing complexity logical skills may beuseful. speculators !lllve registered the of technology, the need to help Lexis-Nexus, an online seared~; IJames of lar~e corporations and j11ries underst~nd it will increase. tool used by many .law firms, catli then sold thern to corporations. Law schools have responded to be found at Union,s library site: Some companies have sued these tl!is trend, employing computers www. union. edu/PU B Ll CfL I- (Jr()spectors for -copyright infringe- lind visual aids in the classroom BRARY/electric.html. Takinga. few 111ent, includ illg Playboy Maga- ill much the same way that Union science courses may also help stu- :zine, which: sued Global Sight De- d()es. dents develop a better techn<Jlli()gi- ~ign Inc. o-ver tile use of several Some schools now offer special- cal background. -variations 011 its name. Recently, i:zedprograms.inlnfortnationTecll- The health care industry h:as the United N\ations has drafted a nology. John Marshal Law long been a source of employment 5e1 of rules which apply to the use School, art institution that spe- for the legal profession, andma.n- CJfURLs. cializes in Infonnation Technology, aged care has introduced a vvic:le The role of law the technologi- includes a broad range of topics range of interesting legal issues. l(et:( developrruiJt could take many in its curriculum such as Doctors have been the targets. of <lirections. P<!rllaps, like technol- cyberspace law and privacy an increasing number ()f laVisuits {)gy itself, te()ltnology law is nei- rigllts. N ortllwestern University under managed care, since it is 11ot th er inherent 1y good nor evil, but offers a combined program in En- currently possible to sue an liN()_ can be used f<>r either purpose. gineeringand Law. Theerosionofprivacyundermlln- Two plausible analogies come to For those who wish to attend aged care has als() introduce(! a mind for th:e I'O 1e oflawyers on the taw school from the comfort .of wide range oflegal issaes, acceler- te<:hnological fi'ontier: Chatner and their own Internet connection, ated with the introduction <Jf g;e- N emoy courageously discovering Kaplan (owned by the Washing· netic testing. new worlds and European con- ton Post Company) offers a Some of the appeal of te<il-.nlJI- -<Jllistadors mucking up a perfectly virtual law school via the ogy law may be that it addresses good contineltt. .Jt is hard to tell Internet. The program, Concord some of the same philos()phica..l which of th~se predictions will University School of Law issues that have been debated in cometrue, but<lnewayoranother, C www .concord.kaplan.com), offers other contexts for years. lawyers willalv;ays have a place in videotaped classes and email cor· An article in the Albany Le~w our society. cally. [f there are no potential re- cipients locally, the organ becomes available within the region. Ifthere are 110 potential recipients region- ally, the organ becomes available within the nation. Withineach level ofthe allocation process, match- ing is determined based on size, blood type, and medical urgency. Generally, the sickest patients vvith:·in the region receive the or- gan first. While all of these tests and pro- cedures are necessary for a suit- able match, the time between when brain death is declared in the do- nor and when the organ is trans- planted into the recipient is criti- cal. Viability varies from organ to organ as follows: hearts and lungs are viable for 4-6 hours, livers are viable for 12 hours (although new technology can extend their life outside of the body to 24 hours), pancreases are viable for 12 hours, and kidneys are viable for 30 hours. Once transplanted into the recipi- ent, the organ immediately begins pumping, beating, or filtering new life into a body that for a long time has heen seemingly lifeless. Many surgeons heroically say the actual transplant operation is the easiest part of the entire proce- dure;. instead, they call the donor family's loss and the recipient's wait for an organ as he watches his own body deteriorate the most difficult parts. ·

Page 16 • May 27, 1999 • <!Io:u.cnrhiensi,.; To Sara, I am in love with you. Love, Robbie Erika, Molly, Lauren, You looked great last night. Love, Jim Thanks. Working on the paper is one ofthe best experiences in life. Everyone who has ever enjoyed an article of mine or offered me praise, thanks for reading. -Shaun Montana Amanda, Congratulations ori the play! Love, Your Roommate THANK YOU TO ALL OF THE UNION COLLEGE Michelle, I love your futuristic make-up. Love, Becky Tcrthe Concot<ly staff, Thanks fordealing with rny1oopy character and for feeding me food. Love, Vouknowwho To Patrick (\wink wink\) You are a great friend. I want to thank you for all that you have done forme. -Mike To my bunny I love you. Your Blueberry STUDENTS WHO HAVE VOLUNTEERED AS BIG SISTERS AND BIG BROTHERS THIS YEAR Advertisement ' ' '' ' : . ~ ' ' ' ' . ' ' To Mandy and Shelley, Stop beingS() crazy! Love,. Amanda and Michelle To MySalad Friends (Alicia and Amber), If only we had an instructional· video. -E.T. Baby cakes, Thanks forthe wonderful weekend on tne water. Love, Jr. Dear Honey, How boutGinza this week, Love; Sweetie Big. Brothers Big Sisters of the Capital Region THE LITTLE SISTERS AND BROTHERS, THEIR FAMILIES, AND BIG BROTHERS-BIG SISTERS OF THE CAPITAL REGION APPRECIATE THE GIFT OF YOUR TIME AND FRIENDSHIP Amy Anderson Mary Kate Aveni Allis on B I urn Colin 8 reyer Steve Burns F enna Calder Cl·aire Cantwell Lisa Carbone Ja nine Carr Jennifer Caruso K ristie Centi Joe Chan Jessica Chappelle Nicole Cione Mindy. Co~en Nick Conway Scott Corn M,ario Cruz S Ilana Dangelo L'erin Davis Heather Devlin Katie Doling S LiZ anne Dorask i Randi Dupont Julie Gardner Amy Gersten Rachel Gilman Lizzy Glidden Em ily GOdfrey Brian Goldberg Lori G renne E rinn Gregg Jannelle Harnick Lesli Heffner Saim a Hussain Miriam Jam ron Victorra Jones ~iobhan Kahayas Lee Kaufman Jon Kelson Jamie Lapine Jeff Lie berm an Mark McKee Roger McShane Brian Mitchell J en n i fer M orris on Amy Paolone Jay Papropa1ich ' Debbie Pellish Kylie Petterson David Polizzi Alison P-r.G.stia Shannon Pryor Lac,ie Quinton Rene Rinaldi Jason Rosenstock Becky Rubin Veronica Sack Kate Schmidt Stephanie Sienkiewicz Emily Simon Amy S labich Laelyn South Rory Stern Mika Street Melanie Thorton Darcy Tuczyns ki Jessica Wells Rebecca Walsh Beth W ierzbienie,c Erin W ittes Kristen Zadou rian Thank jou to everyone at Union College who supported Bowl for Kids Sake '99: $5,000.00 raise·d by Union College Students I All funds will be used to match more local children

Union Says Goodbye to an All-Around Student Athlete Sarah Moss leaves Union After Four Years of Great Competition and Athleticism by Melissa Johnson Special to the Sports Section Schenectady,NY-For Andover, Massachusetts native Sarah Moss, being a group leader comes naturally. Not onJy was she cap- tain of the Middlesex soccer, ice hockey, and lacrosse teams as a high school senior, but she is also captain of these three sports as ;a senior at Union College. This is a rare trifecta, one which requires an individual to be dedi- cated and determined both in the classroom and on the p.Jaying fields. Athletics have always been a big part of Moss' life. The 22-year- old has been playing soccer for fif- teen years, lacrosse for eleven yeats, and ice hockey for eight years, a sport she switched to af- ter playing basketball at thejunior high school level. \I couldn't waitto play hockey,\ said Moss, \but the sport wasn't available to me until the ninth grade.\ She continued playing hockey through her senior year at Middlesex when she was elected captain and selected for the All- League honorable mention team. Among her other interests in high school were the continuation of her lacrosse and soccer careers. In soccer she was captain during both her junior andsenior seasons. Also, while captain during Iter se- nior year in lacrosse she was named All-League. To top it off, she received re~ peated awards for outstanding achievement in athletics during her four years at high school; includ- ing the \Outstanding Athlete Award\ following the completion of her senior season. The transition to Union was fairly easy for the multi-talented Moss. She came to Union because the Schenectady, New York Divi- sion Ill school had all of the quali- ties she was looking for. Moss was able to continue her athletic career in the three sports she loved while · earning a degree at a highly re- spected educational institution. Moss is two months away from completing her degrees in History and Spanish. She hopes to ·one day teach elementary school. To help prepare herself, and to gain some valuable experience, Moss is traveling to Co~ta Rica after graduation to put her Span- ish education to work while volun- teering as a teacher. After a year off from college, she would like to further her studies in graduate school in order to obtain a masters degree in teaching. Athletically, Moss says she wou.ld love to play any ofthe three sports after finishing college. She is also considering coaching as an alternative to playing. · \I 'Il definitely coach,\ says Moss. \It will fill the void of not being able to play.\ Union College second-year la- crosse coach Linda Bevelander feels that Moss would be an asser to the coaching profession. \She's a remarkable young woman who is really going make an excellent coach someday,\ says capture their first UCAA champi• onship and put themselves in po- sition to become the first Union la- crosse team (men or women) ever to be selected to the NCAA Divi- sion Ill tournament. \Sarah is full of zest, and pas- sion,\ says Bevelander. \She sees something and she doesn't stop untH she accomplishes the task. She makes things happen.\ While successfully participating in three collegelevel sports is a challenge in itself, Moss has been the first time in its history. Moss, who had seen considerable play- ing time at midfield during her first three seasons, was forced to the sidelines this year .after a shoulder injury in game five ended her sea- son. Despite theinjury, Moss coll- tinuedto attend every practice and game, giving encouragement to her teammates.\ \Sarah has played a big role in the success .of tile program over the past four years,\ said Speck, whose team posted a Union Col- Senior Sarah Moss will iJe truly missed by the Athletic DepartlrJent, since she has help develop many teams over these past four years. Bevelander. \She is the kind <>f woman who doesn't stop--ever.~' She is a defensive midfielder for us, but when she gets the ball in the air or on the ground, she goes right for the opposition's net. She makes things happen for us.\ Moss was named the DLJ.tchwomeri's .Most Valuable Player and was selected to the Upstate Collegiate Athletic Ass<>- ciation All-Conference team last year after she scored 15 goals and 17 points. Her efforts helped Union estal>- lish a college record for wins in a season (10) and eam a berth in the New York State Women's Colle- giate Athletic Assoc.iation postseason tournament. With three games remaining on this year's schedule, Moss, who has 22 goals and 25 points, has been a driving force in Union's 9-3 campaign. If the Dutchwomen win their final three games, they would able to balance her athletics with a challenging acadern ic schedule and social life. \People find it amazing that I can participate in three sports, have time for my friends and maintain good grades,\ remarks Moss. \It is a lot of work and a chal- lenge for me, but l feel that I am committed and dedicated to every- thing I try to do. When I'm on tile field I try to remain focused and supportive of my teammates. I can be vocal, and I'm always cheering on my teammates, but I also work very hard and try to lead by ex- ample, as well.\ Moss has also learned numer- ous things from her active partici- pation in athletics and glves credit to each of her coaches at Union. From soccer coach Brian Speck, she has learned about mental tough· ness, and what it is like to win. This past season (l99S) the soc- cer team was nationally ranked for lege record 13-1-1 campaign and just missed being selected for its first-ever NCAA tournament ap- pearance. \The biggest impact she made to the soccer team was her leadership and her compassion for competing. Sara is a great example of a team player.\ As a senior in ice hockey, M<>ss was leading scorer at center, with six goals and six assists. Union Women's Hockey, which has been a club sport the last five years, was in a transition year in 1998-99 as the Skating Dutchwomen maintained their club status while playing 18 varsity teams within the ECAC. Union fmished0-18 in the league and 2-18 overall, beating their two club opponents. Women's hockey will become Union's 25th varsity sports in 1999-2()()0. Captain of the team each of the last two years, this season's very difficult campaign, one in which the team was not on the same com- petitive level as rna11y of its oppo- nents, showed Moss the impor- tance of persistence and persever- ance. This was a different perspective from lacrosse and soccer, as she found it necessary to alter the way in which she led th.e team. \I couldn'tgive in to my frustra- tions, or I would let my team down,\ Moss explained. \Sarah was the most skilled player we had,\ said women's ice hockey coach Fred Quistgard. \It was a transition year for us be- tween club and varsity. She was the one who controHed the puck and the other teams knew she was our best player, so they checked .her quite a bit. \But she was such a character person,\ Quistgard continued. \She was always supportive of everyone else, she pushed them so we could achieve our potential. She played her car>tain 's role per- fectly.\ While Moss has worked hard to take advantage of the opportuni- ties presented to .heF~ she has had to deal with a very difficult per- sonal tragedy. This past winter Sarah suffered the loss of her mother to cancer. \It is still hard to know that my mom would have come to my la- crosse games and that she won't be there this year,\ she said. \My mom was one of my big- gest fans and she had told her doc- tor not to schedule any appoint- ments in April bec~use she had la- crosse games to attend.\ After the death of her mother, Sarah found a lot of support through her teammates and coaches. \Sports have always been a big outlet,\ Moss explained. \It's somewhat therapeutic to be out there everyday.\' While it has been hard for her to participate and focus on athlet- ics since her mom passed away, she is able to take cornfC>rt in the fact that she was there when her mom died. A member of the Tri-Delta so- rority, Moss has been nominated for the Robert Ridings Memorial Award as Union's \Outstanding Senior Female Atlllete.\ Now, in the final month of her collegiate career, MC>ss is hoping to end her outstanding four years by helping the women's lacrosse team into the UCA..A. championship and a berth in the NCAA tourna- ment. While wins and losses are forgotten witl1 the change of sea- sons, Sara Moss will long be re- membered at Union College for her detennination, her compassion and her leadership. .... -. -·

Senior Peter Flynn in the fall at a X-'Country meet. ~'Y A Union field hockey player drives past a defender. ron Sophomore Becky Rubins . ~ry. Union volleyball team members prepare for the next point. smashes a backhand. my Seni&r Craig Elman prepares to take a shot. Union indoor track runners come down ih: stretch.

Cory Silkeo/TC Senior Laruen Locke makes a save for Union. The crew team heads do.wn the Mohawk River. Freshman Katie Smith goes for a lay-up. f)' Senior Chrul ~chiender fires a .snC1t. Senior David Pobu!exter looks for tile right pitch. Freshman :v•,~nn delivers a fastball. Local youngsters cheer on the Skating Dutchmen. file photo A Union X-Country runner goes toward the finish line. Sophomore Leah 0/iveiri tries Jot a rebound . . e p . . Sophomore Missy Matusewicz- on the longjump. Aar~n Braustein/TC Senior Leeor Sthrom in the ready position.

·~;_·_.;,_ -~-,. '\ :,,;,·_,_.~.·. ·~, ' < ... ',.,-: ,~:::-.' ; .. ;;;:._

