

1829 [Delete?] 
Thursday January 1, 1829. I wish you"Happy New Year" is sounding upon our ears for the morning salutation. There is some indication of a snowstorm in the weather this morning. Business not very brisk. It began to snow this afternoon about 4 o'clock and I think from the appearance of the weather we shall have some sleighing. I think of going home Saturday morning. 
Chichester Friday January 2, 1829. There came about 3 in. of snow last night and it snows yet. Father came over today and I expect to ride home with him. We started at about 6 o'clock in our open waggon, it snows considerably. Arrived at home at about 9 o'clock, folks all well, had supper and went to bed at 11. Sleighs do[d]ging about briskly. 
Saturday January 3, 1829. 1 arose this morning about 10 o'clock. It's very cold today, perhaps colder than we have [had] for the year before. Stayed in the house by the fire most all day, dars'nt go out, so cold. Talkedá some of going to Grandfather's, glad we did not. Coldest we have had this year. 
Sunday January 4, 1829. It is very cold. I did not go to meeting. Father went in the afternoon. It was at Capt. Reed's house. Mr. 
36 
Adams preached. We had conference at our house in the eve, a good number there considering the travelling. Thermometer about 15 below zero. 
Concord Monday January 5, 1829. The weather rather more moderate. I ventured out a little more today than I did on Saturday. I expect to go to Concord tonight by stage. Father talks some of going to Portsmouth soon. Father carryed me to the turnpike to take the stage at 3 o'clock. I arrived at Concord about 6, folks all well. I was pretty cold coming. Shut up the store at 9 o'clock. 
Tuesday January 6, 1829. The weather more moderate, some rainy in the P.M. Business not very good. The News Boys addresses are very good, this that I seen, except the "Patriots." I. Hill has enlarged his paper and got another one a going called the "Spirit of the Republican Press," which is his political paper. D. J. Palmer is editor. It is to continue 3 months. It is 10 o'clock and time to go to bed and so good by. 
Wednesday January 7, 1829. The weather very pleasant so much so that it carried what little snow there was away. Business not extraordinary. There is considerable talk about the balls, celebrations &c. on the "Glorious 8th." There will be an ox roasted whole at Goffstown, and in this town there will be a ball at the Eagle Coffee House and a dinner at the Washington Hotel by Mr. Smart, and there will [be] other preparations in many different towns, all prepared by the Jacksonites. We go to bed at lb and arise at 7 o'clock. Old Col. Kent and his wife and the Tucker girls are going to Boston tomorrow. 
Thursday January 8, 1829. 1 awoke this morning and the first [sound?] that assailed my ears was the Jackson swivel, which sounded very dull. I have heard firing almost all day from almost all directions. At 12 o'clock the swivel was hauled out again and fired. The dinner at Mr. Smart's was very thinly attended, I heard tonight. Snow began to fall this forenoon but long towards night it turned to rain. I should think there had fell 4 in. There is a great driving about of chaises, carriages and sleighs to carry the folks to the balls this evening. I heard this morning that the ox at Goffstown caught afire yesterday and burnt up owing to the fat. The ox cost them SOdoll[ar]s and they had to get another one. 
37 
Friday January 9, 1829. It rained and snowed considerable today but it is not very cold. Very good sleighing and I think business will soon be better. I heard today that there was about 200 Gents and Ladies at the ball last evening. 
Saturday January 10, 1829. It is almost as cold today as it has been this year and there never was better sleighing. Business not very brisk. I went to Singing School this evening before I took supper and was very hungry. There was a very large number there. When I came home this [ evening] I ate seven crackers. 
Sunday January 11, 1829. Arose at 8 this morning. Went to meeting. Mr. W. preached a very good discourse. I went to the Courthouse in the evening, it was very full. Came down about 9 and made a fire and warmed us and then went to bed. Pretty cold. 
Monday January 12, 1829. Very pleasant today but some chilly. Business not very good. Mr. Kent has gone to Boscawen this evening for a ride and some others with him and ~rrived at home about 10, cold and hungry. 
Tuesday January 13, 1829. It is not so cold as yesterday but still it [is] pretty cold. Sleighing very good and it is very well improved. Father came over today, folks all well. Got my coat most finished, bought a 11C. S. Hill Saw." Last Sunday night there was a house burnt in Loudon owned by "Wales." I saw the light of it but thought it might be a coal pit broke out and burning as they sometimes do. 
Wednesday January 14, 1829. It is very dull and heav[e]y this morning and began to rain about 10 o'clock and rained all day a little. I think it will injure the sleighing very much. Business some better, we had an order from Wentworth today for about SO dollars worth of iron &c. There is snow as far as Haverhill or Nashua on the Boston way. Much more snow up country than here, about a foot there, I heard, all blowed into heaps. 
Thursday January 15, 1829. It has rained all day very fast and the snow is gone considerably. We had 2 loads of salt from Durham today, 1 of 25 b. and it was very wet. The other had 40 [b.] and was pretty dry considering the day. There is considerable training down and up or over [the river?] . Farmers from up country with produce. Business poor, bought butter of a man from up country at 13 cts. per lb. It is so wet today that I wet my feet and they have been so about 
38 
all day. I expect I shall take cold. Had codfish chowder for dinner. A number of old Revolutionary Soldiers met at Mr. Gales' Inn today for the purpose of sending a petition to Congress for more pay for their services in the war. Good apples is worth 2/bushel, rye 5/, corn 4/, butter good per lb. 13 cts, cheese good 7 cts., oats from 30 cts. [to] 33, chickens and turkeys 6 cts., geese 4, ducks 8. 
Friday January 16, 1829. It is remarkably pleasant today, we needed 
hardly any fire. Sleighing is about all gone. It is very wet today, feet 
has been wet all day. Business not very good. I painted our posts 
before the store about half way down from the top with white 
paint. 
January 17, 1829. The weather remarkably pleasant and snows all gone except a little ice in spots. Business pretty good. I was driving Mrs. Kent and Bullard around this afternoon getting subscriptions for a outside garment for their Unitarian Minister. It was very cold. 
Sunday January 18, 1829. On awaking this morning and looking from the window I saw that it had snowed about 6 in. of very damp snow during the night and snows yet. About 10 o'clock it turned to rain which makes the travelling very slopy. Mr. Williams preached, very 
.good. 
I went to the Courthouse in the evening. A stranger preached from Esther 4 caput, 16 verse. Came to the store, found Mr. Chaffin and George here singing by a good fire. 
Monday January 19, 1829. Weather pretty warm and thaws some. Business better than usual. George expects to go to Pembroke to a wedding if he don't miss of it. Mr. Kent very busy today sending out invitations to Ministers and others to come [to] the Unitarian Ordination on the 25[th] of next month. Had a very good sing last Saturday evening, a good number there. I received a "Catalogue of the Officers and Students of Dartmouth College" tonight from D. J. Noyes with his respects. There is a fine number ***** over 200 students in the whole. 
Tuesday January 20, 1829. The weather very pleasant. Hardly any snow. As many carri;ages used as sleighs. Business very good, took about $100 today. George has gone to Pembroke to a Mr. Morgan's wedding. I received a coat from home yesterday by Mr. Drake. I sit up until 10 1/2 o'clock waiting for George but he has not come and it [is] not probable he will tonight. 
39 
Wednesday January 21, 1829. The weather very comfortable but hardly so warm as yesterday. Business very good, took about 97 dollars today. George got [here?] this morning at about 10 o'clock, had a very good wedding. Mr. Kent bought 2 hives of honey of a Mr. Whittier. Eat so much that it done more hurt than good. 
Mrs. Bullard and Kent have been travelling round a day or two back to obtain money for a surplice for their Unitarian Minister, Mr. Thomas. Eliza Davison at old Col. Kent's is very sick of the fever and has been so for some time, has the doctor regular every day. 
Thursday January 22, 1829. The weather similar to what we had yesterday. Business pretty good. Took some butter and cheese of Mr. Currier of Wentworth. The Superior Court has been sitting here this week. There is hardly any business to be done in it. 
There is expected to be a wedding between Mr. John Crousett and Miss Eliza Weeks this evening at Mr. John Weeks. 
Friday January 23, 1829. The weather moderate for the time of year, hardly any snow. There is much teaming a going up and down. Business good. Took some more butter and cheese. Heard from old Col. Kent's folks at Boston, and Paulina is very dangerously sick with fever. Eliza Davison much better tonight. I read an account in the "Christian Watchman" tonight that 12 factories had been burnt since the 1st of January within 150 miles of Boston, Mass. I painted the posts over again before the door with white paint, look much better for it. Great call for waggons by teamsters now. 
Saturday January 24, 1829. The weather remarkable pleasant for the season. Business very good. I went to singing school this evening, good number there. I heard tonight. that Ellen Tucker had had another turn of spit[t]ing blood. No sleighing hardly to speak of. 
Sunday January 25, 1829. Arose this morning at 9 o'clock, very pleasant. Mr. W. preached. Went to the Courthouse, Mr. Bouton, great number there. 
Monday January 26, 1829. The weather rather more chilly. Business not very good. Considerable teaming now. It snowed a very little last night. Arose this morning a little after 6 o'clock. The mail carrier brought me a pair of boots, newly footed, sent from home. 
Tuesday January 27, 1829. It rained a little last night but froze as fast as it fell. Began to hail this afternoon but soon turned to snow. Made a good trade this morning, sold a very nice pr of teapots to a lady, 4. 75 dollars, been in the store forever almost. Glad their 
[they're] gone. George has been running 3 or 4 days past after money for the proprieter's school. It is closed and they intend not to keep it any longer. I think we are going to have good sleighing now. The thermometer has been at about freezing all day. 
Wednesday January 28, 1829. I arose this morning about 1/ 4 past 7 o'clock and on going out to open the shutters I found the snow flying nicely and a drift before the door above my knees. I should [think] there had fallen about 1 foot but it is all in heaps so I cannot tell correctly. Not much teaming, only a few up country folks going down with their ears all bound up. Business not very good. We sold a Mr. Parker of Littleton, formerly of Chichester, about 20 dollars worth of paints. I heard tonight this snow does not reach far towards Boston. My boots that I had footed pinch my toes considerable so that they do not feel very comfortable. 
Been filing up papers a part of today. 
I was thinking today that a very important part of the business of a merchant is in answering all letters as soon as received and not lay them aside and by that means forget them untill a month after.wards and then place all the blame upon the clerk by saying that he layed aside among some papers when he was gone and smooth it over in that way by a miserable excuse. The fruits of such delays are often severely felt. 
We have very comfortable times now evenings. We generally shut up about 8 1/2, make a fire in the counting room so by that way we warm our bedroom and we can sit and wright [write] or read just as we like till bed time then go to bed. 
Thursday January 29, 1829. The weather pretty chilly and snow lay pretty still today. Business not very good. á 
I heard today that John P. Doe was dead, he had been declining for a long time and at last the public and his relatives are deprived, one of an enterprizing young man and the other of [an] endearing relation. Considerable teaming down now. 
Friday January 30, 1829. The weather pretty cold since the snows. Business pretty good. 
41 
Saturday January 31, 1 829. The weather extremely cold this morning, 10 below zero. Business good. I went to singing school this eve, very good singing. 
Sunday February 1, 1829. Arose a little after 7 o'clock, very cold this morning but warm after sun was up. 
Went to hear Mr. Williams in the forenoon and in the afternoon he exchanged with Mr. Bouton. I did not like him as well as Mr. W. although he is a good speaker. I went to the prayer meeting in the vestry in the evening. Very interesting although not many there. 
Monday February 2, 1829. The weather not very cold nor warm. It began to snow very fast this afternoon. Great deal of teaming down and up now. I received 30 dollars tonight of the mail carrier from Father for Mr. E. Fisk and gave the mail carrier a receipt for the same. Sold about 100 dollars worth of goods to a Mr. Jewett. 
Tuesday February 3, 1829. There came 4 or 5 in. of snow last night which is very light and the wind makes it fly nicely today. Not very cold. Business not good. 
Wednesday February 4, 1829. The weather pretty good. Business good, sold 400 1 b. white lead to a Mr. Sanborn besides other articles. We had a load of glass from Keene. 
Thursday February 5, 1829. The weather moderate. Business very good. We received an order from Mr. Taylor of N. H. for 1,0001b. iron and some steel &c., weighed it tonight, going to cut it in the morning. I was weighed tonight, my weight was 239 lb.[error:139lb. I gained about 21 b. a week long back. 
Friday February 6, 1829. The weather moderate. Business good. My feet are some [sore?], caused by chilblains. We sit up till about 1 0 o'clock nights writing and reading. Arise about 7. Thermometer stood at 4 above zero at 9 tonight. 
Saturday February 7, 1829. The weather very pleasant. Business pretty good. Great deal of teaming now. I went to singing school tonight not so many as last eve. Mr. Fisk came today after the money that Father sent over. 
Sunday February 8, 1829. The weather moderate. We arose at 7 1/2 and came down after breakfast and dressed us by a good fire. Went 
42.
to meeting. Mr. W. has preached for a number of days past on 22 and 23 vs. of the 5 chap. of Galatians which is this: "but the fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law." 
He has preached a separate sermon on each of these words as far as gentleness, and he proposes preaching the whole, one on every Sunday morning. 
We had a meeting on the floor of the house tonight. Mr. W. made remarks on a chapter which was all that was done except prayers and singing. There was a pretty large number to meeting today. It rains some tonight. 
Monday February 9, 1829. It is very pleasant today. Business not good. It [rained] considerable last night which makes the snow very slopy and wet. The wind blew very hard tonight and it grows colder. It is rumored around town Genl. Jackson is dead, but there is no truth in the story. 
Tuesday February 10, 1829. It froze last .night, makes it very bad travelling for the feet but better for sleighs and teams. It is very slip[p]ery and many get falls in the street. Business not very good. 
Got a very bad cold and did not feel well yesterday. Had a fresh fish, a part boiled and a part fried, very good. Mrs. Kent had a tea.party of a few neighbors tonight. Had supper at about 8 o'clock. It began to snow tonight near 8 and I should think there had fell 2 or 3 inches. Had company at the house tonight, didn't get supper till 8 o'clock, don't like the parties. 
Wednesday February 11, 1829. It is very foggy this morning but not very cold. Business pretty good. Arose about 7 o'clock. The young men of Concord favorable to the Administration are going to meet at the Merrimack Hotel to choose delegates to attend the Convention at Epping. List of prices of produce: oats 2/, rye 5/6, com 4/, butter 14 cts., cheese 7, turkies [turkeys] and chickens 7, geese 4 cts., beans and peas 1 .00 bus. There is not [much] of a market for beans or peas. Pork 5 1/2 (good). It is after 9. I must read and go to bed as I shall arise early in the morning. 
Thursday February 12, 1829. The weather somewhat cold. I fell down on some ice near Mr. Evan's store and hurt myself considerably. Aunt Maria was over today with Shadrack Seavey and I [was] told Uncle Amasa was declining in his health although his leg 
43 
is about well. It is thought he has a consumption. Father sent an order today by Mr. Page of Pittsfield for a circular saw. Folks all well. 
Sleighing is good now and the teams drive briskly. My head aches considerably tonight and I think I shall go to bed early. George played on his flute last night and I could not sleep till almost 11 o'clock. 
Friday February13, 1829. The weather moderate but cold riding or travelling. Business not very good. Arose about 7 o'clock, opened store and made a fire. Mr. Kent came down this morning about 1/2 past 7 and went back to breakfast. George has a new frock coat made from his old surtout by Miss A. Green. Had some apples for a treat. Got a new cow by swap[p]ing and we had milk for supper, liked it much, think I shall fat up if [I] have it often. Weighed 137 lb. tonight George weighed 129 lb. 
Saturday February 14, 1829. The weather moderate. Business good. Went to singing school, had good singing. We bought some clams today and boiled them tonight. Mr. Leborquet came here and helped us, had a real good supper at 11 o'clock before we go to bed. 
Sunday February 15, 1829, The weather moderate and not very cold. Arose this morning a little before 8. Mr. W. preached on gentleness in 
A.M. Good sermon. Had a meeting in the eve and I went. It was on the subject of righ[t]ly hearing, very good. I went to the singing meeting in afternoon after sermon, liked it much. 
Monday February 16, 182 9. The weather cold. Business good. I received a pair of feeting from home and a handkerchief tonight by Mr. Berry. I sent a letter to Ma[ry] Ann by him. Feel very dull tonight, going to bed soon. It is almost 10. Old Col. Kent arrived from Boston tonight, the girls are better. Mr. Kent's going to Dover to ordination tomorrow with some others. 
Tuesday February 17, 1829. The weather moderate but rather.cold. Business pretty good. Cooked the rest of our clams and Mr. Chaffin helped us eat them, very nice. Went to bed about 11. Mr. Kent went to Dover this morning with his wife and some others in double sleigh to ordination of a Unitarian Minister. Mr. Lathrop is his name. 
Wednesday February 18, 1829. The weather very cold. Business good. Had a violentheadache, went [and] lay[ed] down on bed and slept 2 hours. When waked I felt much better. 
Thursday February 19, 1829. The weather. pretty cold and windy. Business good. Mr. Kent arrived tonight, had good ordination. Not very good sleighing at Dover. I heard tonight that a man was killed up in Rumney by falling from a sleigh which passed over his head. There is to be a ball at the Washington Hotel tonight. 
Friday February 20, 1829. The weather as usual is moderate. Some signs of a storm. Business good. Sold 25 bus. salt for 6 cts and cash .. We had 2 rolls of sheet [iron?] come today from Boston. I have [been] clearing up the backstore this afternoon and it [looks?]more respectable. Mr. Kent bought some good apples today, have good living now. 
It began to snow briskly tonight and has snowed about 4 in. Continues yet, blows considerable. I think we shall have a real old fashioned "whistler." 
Saturday February 21, 1829. 1 awoke this morning and the snow was flying grandly. It is all in drifts. Greatest storm we've had this winter. No business. Mr. Kent keep[s] pretty snug at the house. Snow flew all day. George has got a toothache tonight, went to bed about 7 o'clock. A Boston stage which passed the***** started this morning but had to return owing [to] drifts of snow. No teaming. Fixing for ordination at the house. Prices of produce are as follows, viz. butter 
13 cts, cheese 6, oats 33, rye 83, corn 67, beans and peas (dull) 75 to 83, hay 7.00 to 8.00, eggs (scarce) 17, wheat (scarce) 2.00. Herd's grass seed $.50, clover 8 cts, cider 1.25 blb, apples 50 cts to 1.00, wood 1.50 to 2.50 cord. 
I heard that there was a respectable number at the ball the 19th consisting of about 140 Ladies and Gentlemen, good music. And I don't go to singing school tonight, it is so stormy. The wind is whistling without loud and wild, which reminds me that many a poor wanderer feels the effects of its keen bite while I sit here com.fortably by a good fire. It is about 1 /2 past 8 and I am going to bed. 
Sunday February 22, 1829. The weather very cold, snow drifted much. Arose about 8 o'clock. Meeting very thin, about 40 there. Evening meeting omitted on account of travelling. George, Robert Davison and ***** to the store, made a fire and had a good sing. 
Monday February 23, 1829. When this day is past my sixteenth birthday will be past also. I went this forenoon breaking out road as far as Mr. Week's Tavern with some others. George this afternoon, 

knowing it was my birthday, gave me a good beating. Business dull. 
Tuesday February 24, 1829. The weather moderate to what it has been. Mr. Kent's a settling with Franconia Factory Co. today, took all day. Unitarian ordination tomorrow. Great preparations, bad weather for them. I think won't be many here, so much snow. The winter past has been remarkably light as to snow except the last one. Business good, sold around 1201b. of iron to one man. Practising on the German Flute a little evenings. Go to [bed] about 10 o' clock, arise 7 o'clock. 
One of the Boston stage horses died here today. It is said he fell down in Boston on the pavement and hurt himself. Looks like a storm tonight 
There has not been much [travel?] from Nashua into Boston this winter. Eliza Davison, who has been sick of the fever, has got well and able to work a little. Saw D. M. Carpenter from Chichester, says it is drifted much and says likewise that he heard that Father had sold his clothing works to a young [man?] for $1,700 and Mr. Chase is going to move off. I. Estabrook & Co. is selling off "at cost" and is going to leave the place. Mr. Evans has got a new clerk, a Brown from Epsom. 
Wednesday February 25, 1829. The weather very moderate.Busi.ness not very good. Ordination begins at 10. Church is to be organised at old Col. Kent's at 9 o'clock. Large number here considering the travelling. Performances ended at about 3 o' clock. Sermon by Mr. Barrett of Boston. Received a letter from M.A., liked it much. 1went to the concert at the Brick Meeting House, did not like it very well. It snows very fast at 9 o'clock. I think we shall have another storm. George went to ordination and I staid at home. 
Thursday February 26, 1829. It blows nicely today and the snow flies too. Business none at all. There was two ladies and a gentleman from Boston to sing yesterday. Got up late this morning. 
Friday February 27, 1829. The weather moderate. Folks are breaking out roads today. Business not good. None of the stages arrive regu.larly now on account of snow. áour calf was killed today. I am glad. Now we shall have milk for supper. 
Saturday February 28, 1829. It is about the same weather now as yesterday. I arise at sunrise now. Business not very good. Went to singing school this evening, good sing. 
Sunday March 1, 1829. It is very mild today for the season. I arose about 8 this morning, went up to prayers and breakfast. Went to the Unitarian [meeting?] this forenoon to hear their minister preach for the first time since ordained. Had a very good sermon from a text in "Isai[a]h 11.21. "Watchman, what of the night. " It was a very good subject. Went to the Baptist [Church] in the afternoon, sat in the singing seats, made out very well for the first time, rather diffident. Went to a prayer meeting in the vestry, very well pleased with it. Went to the house and got a new cheese. Came down to the store and had a good sing then went to bed. 
Monday March 2, 1829. The weather pretty moderate. Business pretty good, had to walk considerable on errands. Wrote a letter to Mary Ann tonight, went to the "Eagle" to see the mail carrier [who] had not arrived yet. I did not send it. The Unitarian Church consists of 6 or 7 members. Not much teaming now. There is a going to be a dinner prepared on the 4th, salutes fired. 
Tuesday March 3, 1829. The weather very fine. Business good. Mr. Kent went to Boscawen today with his father and the Minister (Unitarian). Had fresh fish for dinner, liked it much. Went up to the "Eagle" twice today and the mail carrier had not arrived. Read an account today of the snow's being 5 ft. deep in some of the upland towns of Vermont. Heard tonight that a new Cabinet is formed. Mr. and 1vlrs. Kent have gone to a party at Maj. Chandler's this evening. This winter has been very remarkable for its mildness as far as the two last storms, which makes it more remarkable the other way. If we should have a heavey rain now we should have a tremendous freshet. 
Wednesday March 4, 1829. It rained a little last night and froze. I arose about sunrise and heard some reports of guns firing in honour of Jackson. It is very warm today and thaws much. Rained some this forenoon. Father was over this forenoon with Mr. Chase and he told me he had sold his clothing works etc. for 1,500 dollars. Folks all well. He did not stop long. Mr. Chase is going off. Mr. Richardson is raising a nice sign and a very high signpost before his door. The post runs up about half way or far as the sign, of a bigness and pretty large, and from the sign it tapers off small to the top which has two gilt balls on it, one above the other. The sign I did not take particular notice of as it was most dark. 
47 
The Jackson folks began to fire their swivel at 12 and fired it irregularly all the afternoon till most 9. In the evening Hill Building and Richardson's House was illuminated, which made a brilliant , appearance. They had a dinner about 5 o'clock and supper together. I heard they had cider to drink their toasts with. The boys had a lot of fire balls. It is very wet and slopy travelling owing to the thaw. Business good. 
Thursday March S, 1829. The weather very warm and pleasant, thaws considerably. Business not very good. Had fresh fish for dinner. Cleared up back store some, sent my letter to M.A. yesterday by Father. She is at Epsom now at her Uncle Satter's on a visit. 
Friday March 6, 1829. It began to snow last night and snowed about 4 in. before we shut up store. This morning the snow blows nicely and continued all day. This [is the] worst storm we have had this winter. Business none. 
No stages come in or go out now. I shoveled snow off our bedroom this afternoon, it was about 4 ft. qeep. 
Saturday March 7, 1829. The weather pleasant for the season, it thaws considerably. Took in about 7001 b. of clover seed at 61/2 cts. cash, cheap. Business not very good. Mr. Kent went as far as Mr. Weeks, breaking out road this morning with others. Shovelled snow off back store and shed this afternoon. Got to sell some iron to a man in the morning. I don't like it. Feel sleepy tonight, believe I shall go to bed early. 
Scarcely any stages get in or go out. The Adams folks have a caucus at Mr. Herbert's tonight. Mr. Kent guess[es] there will not be many there. Folks are breaking out roads. 
Sunday March 8, 1829. Weather very pleasant. Arose about 7 o'clock. Sold 14 dollars worth iron and steel. Went to meeting without a great coat, warm enough. Sit in singing seats, made out very well. Did not have the contribution which had been talked of 2 or 3 weeks on account of walking. Very good preaching by Mr. Williams. No meeting here in the evening. Went to the Courthouse. Heard that Mrs. Levi Hutchins, aunt of Mrs. W. Kent, was but just alive, having a cancer. 
Monday March 9, 1829. The weather extremely pleasant. The snow shines so brilliant that it makes my eyes and head ache to look upon it. Business not very good. Jackson's Inaugural Speech has been received today. Very poor thing. Some of the Jacksonites say that it is a hoax and all made up by somebody else but it came tonight by mail directly from Washington so that they'll have to make the best of it. He has formed his Cabinet: Martin Van Buren of N. Y. as Secretary of State, Saml. D. Ingham of Penna.,Sec. of Treasury, John McPherson Barrien of Georgia as Post Master General, John H. Eaton of Tenn. as Sec. of War, John Branch N. C. as Sec. of Navy,á John Mclane of Ohio Attorney General. Town Meeting tomorrow. Snow into Boston. 
Tuesday March 10, 1829. The weather very pleasant for town meeting. Business not good. 
John West is elected Town Clerk in opposition to F. N. Fisk by a majority of 3 votes. For Representatives Ried. Bradley, Saml. Herbert and Rot. Ambrose by a majority of 101 votes. I think the Jackson folks will get a majority in this state. Meeting went on very civil. Selectmen are not chosen, they will be tomorrow. Snow goes away very fast now. Gen. I. Low Moderator, no opposition. 
Wednesday March 11, 1829. The weather very pleasant, feels more like spring. Business good, bought a lot [of] cured rope of a Mr. Anthony Emery and paid in Chase [cash] &c. Choose for Selectmen Mr. Benj. Parke, Gen. Isaac Eastman, Sam'l Knowlton. Some debate concerning the money arising from the sale of land of the Upper Society, how it should be divided among the societies in town. What returns of votes that have arrived make us a gain for Pierce in most every town. 
Thursday March 12, 1829. The weather very rainy. It began to rain last [night] and rained all day today. Very slopy. No business. 
Friday March 13, 1829. The weather very pleasant overhead, very wet underfoot. George slept up at Mrs. Evans who has got home from Dover with Mary A. Porter and Charlotte Hoare. Went to bed about 9 o'clock, arose at 6. The principal cause why Pierce gets so many more votes than Bell is that a great many of the Bell men staid at home, being too confident in their own strength. 
Saturday March 14, 1829. The weather very cold, it has not thawed scarcely any. The travelling remarkably bad owing to the last rain which made large puddles in the road and froze not hard enough to bear a slay or horse. Business good. 
George is not going to sleep at Mrs. Evans tonight. Went to singing school tonight had a good sing. 
49 
There has been a great many shipwrecks of shipping during the last snowstorms and considerable number of lives lost. It is stated that the smallpox has made its appearance in Peterborough, 
N.H. It was caught from some foreign rags by a girl picking them in a paper mill. 
Sunday March 15, 1829. The weather pretty cold. Arise about 8 o'clock. Mr. Williams preached. Sat in singing seats. Had a good sing after meeting in the afternoon. Had 8 instruments. Meeting in the vestry in the eve. 
Monday March 16, 1829. The weather cool. Business good. Slept alone last night. George went to Mrs. Evans. Mr. Kent had a long talk with a Mr. Johnston of Boscawen about an old account. He at last agreed to pay off it next time he came to town and Mr. Kent agreed to balance the account on the payment of the 1/2. 
Tuesday March 17, 1829. The weather rather cold and cloudy. Business not good. It snowed an inch or two this afternoon but has left off. Got out of wood and drawed some from the house. 
Wednesday March 18, 1829. The weather very cold and it blows the snow about. Business good. Sleighing very good about here. Up in Vermont the snow in some high places is from S to 7 ft. deep so that it appears that in the 3 last snowstorms there was an immence 
[immense] body of snow fell. There is about here from 3 to 4 [feet] on a level. 
Thursday March 19, 1829. The weather remarkable cold for the last of March. Business poor. 
Stephen Brown (tailor) has bought of old Col. Kent the house where Mr. Williams, the B[aptist] Minister, lived and is moving into it. Mr. Williams has hired the house where Mr. Brown used to reside that they have made shift. 
Friday March 20, 1829. It is cold yet. Business not very good tonight. All ap[p]rentices and workmen leave off work evenings in their shops. la.st night at about 6 o'clock, Mr. Kent arid Mr. Chickering went down to the Loucook and [got] a partridge each. 
Saturday March 21, 1829. Weather cold. Business dull. I had a very bad headache last night so that I went to bed at 7 o'clock. Went to 
JU 
singing school this eve, we had a delightful sing. Very chily and slipery walking tonight. 
Sunday March 22, 1829. It is cold today. I arose about 8 o'clock. Sit in the singing seats. Mr. W. preached. We had a Sing at 11 o'clock meeting in the floor of the house. In the eve had the cholick. Tonight took pe(p]permint and gin [ginger?], felt some better, came down and went to bed. 
Monday March 23, 1829. It is colder today than yesterday. Business not very good. Mr. Tenney was over today. Had a letter from M.A. Aunt Satter has broke her arm by the upsetting of a sleigh. Aunt Davis has a young infant. Uncle Davis is some better from the lung fever Which he has had. Folks all well. We had 2 saws from Boston (circular) tonight, 16 inch. Going to mend my pantaloons tonight. 
Tuesday March 24, 1829. It is very cold today. Business not good. Mr. Lang worked up to the house drawing off cider. We heard yesterday that a Mr. Smith of Peterborough had failed. He was considered good. He was the greatest owner of the factory which was burnt there. The factory was insured for 12,000 dollars but the policy expired only 2 days before it was burnt, which he did not know till on sending to Boston for the money he was told it. 
Our singing school was adjourned last Saturday evening till tonight, had a good sing tonight. The school gains in number and perfection. Going to meet next Saturday eve. Old Col. Kent has gone to Boston this morning and Rebbecca has gone to Claremont to his sister's (Bingham). 
Wednesday March 25, 1829. It is not very cold and thaws consi.derable. Business not very good nowadays. John Lebosquet brought in his base viol this evening after he had shut up and we had a good sing. Mr. Chase was over today, he came to see Col. Carter about hiring or buying his clothing mills. 
Thursday March 26, 1829. This morning I was awaked about 1 o'clock by the bells ringing for fire. George jumped out of bed. Dressed us and on getting into the street found that the fire was on the east side of the river. We started for it and on getting there found that it originated from Gen. Eastman's machine and black.smith's shop which had burnt down flat. The Engines arrived and I handed water untill it was out, which was about 2 hours. I got very wet and my trowsers froze stiff to _my knees, felt some cold. When I got [back?] found George at home and had a good fire in counting room, dried myself, took some hot sling and went to bed . Slept sound till 20 m. past 6 o'clock, then got [up] as bright as a dollar and opened store. George feels very stiff. 
Friday March 27, 1829. It is some windy and not very cold. Snow thaws very fast. Business not good. Mr. Joseph Carter was buried today, very old, about 85, I heard. I got a very bad cold the other night being so wet. George has gone to a party at Mr. Cody's tonight. Went to [bed] about 9 o'clock last night. 
Saturday March 28, 1829. The weather very pleasant and thawed much. The road is very bare now. Business good. Mr. Lang and I piled up some boards this afternoon behind the iron store, got my pantaloons daubed with turpentine. Went to singing school in evening, good sing. 
Sunday March 29, 1829. Arose about 1/2 past 7. It [is] very pleasant. Went to meeting without a great coat, warm enough. Mr. W. finished his sermons on the fruits of the spirit. The last was "Temperance." Had a good sermon, good singing likewise. Sat in singing seats. Had a lecture in the eve on floor of house. We had a sing after the afternoon sermon. 
Monday March 30, 1829. It is very warm today. Business not good. Water runs a great deal in the street now. My feet had been wet for a number of days back. Wrote a letter to M. Ann tonight by the carrier. Snow turns into water amazing fast now. 
Tuesday March 31, 1829. The weather pleasant. The travelling very wet and muddy. Business not good. Snow is all gone in the road, by the side there is a plenty. George is unwell today. Mr. Saml. and Asaph Evans are taking account of stock today. Stage went out this morning very full, 8 or 10 extras. Went to singing school this eve, good sing. Last Sunday Mr. Williams read a proclatmation of fasting and prayer. It is to be on the 2 [nd] day of April. 
Wednesday April 1, 1829. All that is heard this morning among the boys is "April Fool." Weather pleasant, thawed a good deal. Began to take account of stock today, got along very well. Took all the shelf where the screws are and the files &c. Stages very full this morning. 
Sl 
Thursday April 2 ,1829. It rained all day very fast. Not many to meeting. Had a sermon in the afternoon, very good. Snow goes off very fast now. 
Friday April 3, 1829. Weather moderate, thaws considerably. Get along very well taking account. No business or customers. Had tripe for dinner yesterday. Very mudy now. Colds and coughs frequent. Mrs.Levi Hutchins is dead. She died yesterday about 11 o'clock of the cancer. She belonged to the "Society of Friends." I saw the death of the venerable Dr. Holyoke of Salem in a Boston paper today, aged 100 and over. 
Saturday April 4, 1829. The weather pleasant. The ground has dried considerable in spots. Got all the shelf goods which is nearly half of the work. The ice is broke, has back[ed] into the river. Water pretty high. About 50 wild geese light[ed] in the river opposite the distillery this morning. Nobody got a shot at them. Went down [to] the Boat House tonight to help turn over some boats that have been building there. Went to singing school tonight, mudy going, adjourned till next Wednesday eve. 
Sunday April 5, 1829. It is a very pleasant morning. I arose about 
1/2 past 7 o'clock. Went to meeting without a great coat, warm enough. 
A young man preached, who is a stranger, in the forenoon. In 
the  afternoon  Mr. Williams preached.  Had  a  sing  at  1/2  past  3. It  
rained  considerable  tonight.  I went to the Courthouse  in the evening  
to  hear  Mr.  Bouton  read  Dr.  Beacher's  Remidies  [Remedies]  of  
Intemperance.  Very mudy walking.  

Monday April 6, 1829. It is some cooler. Business pretty good. We have got almost all the front stores done. The Baptist Society has a meeting of the members to choose officers &c. for the ensuing year. I received two pretty [handkerchiefs?] tonight from M. A. Mother is unwell but keeps about house. Uncle Amasa is some better. 
George gone out this evening. We are going to kill the hog in the morning. It is a nice one. The river is pretty high now and clear of ice. 
Amos Wood has sold his bake house to Asa Dusen. I expect Father over next week. 
Tuesday April 7, 1829. The weather moderate. Business rather better [than] common. We have began upon the back store to take account. 
Court begins here today. Saw Uncle James Sanborn tonight. He informed me that " Buck Street" bridge had been swept away by the water and ice and it injured Father's mills a little. He said the ice was about 3 feet thick. He said [?] expected to come over tomorrow. 
George has gone to the "Harmonic," a singing society as it is named, formed of young men and ladies. Mr. Kent killed his hog this morning. It is a nice one, weight is 271 lb., [dressed?] at 2751b. [error:175 Ib?]. 
Wednesday April 8, 1829. It is remarkably pleasant. Mr. Lang came today and we took account of the back store, chambers and part of the iron store. I think we shall finish tomorrow. Old Col. Kent arrived from Boston last night. I have took cold and cough considerably. Went to singing school this evening, good number there. It is adjourned till next Saturday evening. 
Thursday April 9, 1829. The weather rainy with some hail and snow. We got done with the iron store and I feel very tired. Went to bed early. Got a very bad cough. Business dull. 
Friday April 10, 1829. It is rather hazy in the morningá. It rained considerable today, makes it mudy and wet. Mr. Kent's cellar is swim[m]ing with water. There is 8 to 10 in .. The drain is rotten and fallen in. Had it dug up, going to have it brick[ed]. 
A sad accident has befallen the community by the death of Ezekiel Webster, Esqr. He was pleading with his usual eloquence in court of "C[ommon] Pleas" held here now when in a moment [he] dropped and expired without ever stirring a limb. May this be a warning to all of us that we may be prepared to meet our God for we know not in what hour he will call us to our account. Business not good. 
Saturday April 11, 1829. The weather moderate. It has been a very backward morning and the snow and cold has stuck by remarkably. Snow all gone now except in spots. I paid for my singing school for today. I have been fixing some keys to my flute which I have bought of George. 
Sunday April 12, 1829. The weather remarkably pleasant. We laid abed rather late this morning. Went [to] meeting. Mr. C preached, very good man. Went to the Courthouse in the evening. Mr. Bouton preached a sermon . 
S4 
Monday April 13, 1829. The weather pleasant. Business has not been very good for some time past. I put a new key to my flute, it works very well. I received a letter from Mother stating she was unwell and wanting me to come home soon. 
Tuesday April 14, 1829. It is very pleasant. Business not good. Weighed the grindstones and helped pile up the boards. Put another key on my flute. Expect to go home soon. Father is so busy he can't come over now. Signed to go to a writing school, 15 Lessons at 2.00 dollars, begins tomorrow evening. I expect George went to the "Harmonics" this eve. 
Wednesday April 15, 1829. The weather very pleasant. Business dull. Talk [of] going home Saturday. Did not go to writing school this eve because George wanted to go away. Heard some drum[m]ing this eve, it appeared to be on the other side of the river. Piled up remainder of the boards and planks. It is warm enough not to have a fire now, only in the morning and evening. Saml. Evans Jr. and I have been talking about going to New Hampton to school some time in May. I think we shall go. 
Mr. John West had some talk about some plough moulds which he said he left here and are not credited . 
Thursday April 16, 1829. The weather fine. Went to singing at 10 and staid 2 hours. The Master sat me a writing pothooks and trammels after writing a specimen. Am going again at 4 o'clock. Business dull. George went to take a walk this morning. 
Friday April 17, 1829. The weather very pleasant. Business dull. Went to writing school at 4 o'clock, like it much. I made me a ball today and covered it. Going home tomorrow morning in stage. Three hands, Mr. Pierce, Silver and Cutting, are sawing and chopping up the wood at the house. 
Chichester Saturday April 18, 1829. The weather pleasant. Started in stage for home this morning. Arrived here about 10 o'clock. Mr. Tenney, being at Genl. Blake's, brought my trunk home. Folks all well except M0ther. She has been sore for 3 or 4 weeks. Went to Epsom after t"LA. who is at school there at Dsqr. Hersey's. 
Sunday April 19, 1829. The weather fine. Looks a little like rain this forenoon. \Vent to .m.eeting all day. Nlr. Adams preached from 7[th] 

Psalm, 12[th] verse. Very good sermon. I arose this morning about 8 o'clock. The water in the river keeps up very high yet. The ice was 3 or 4 ft thick when it broke up and carryed away the 2 corner posts which the mill sat on and injured a pier of the bridge. Father is building a hatter's shop for Mr. Hopkinson to work in. 
Concord Monday April 20, 1829. It is very rainy today, it rained last night. I expected to have gone over to Grandfather's but it is too rainy. It slacked about noon. Grandfather came over about 12 o'clock. Uncle Sam and Amasa are sick. Started for Concord with Mr. Tenney who is going over on some business. The rain made it bad travelling. Arrived here about 6 o'clock. Mr. Tenney is a going back tonight. Sent some linnen home by him, brought over Father's watch with me. 
Tuesday April 21, 1829. The weather rainy. It rained last night and almost all the forenoon. Business dull. Mr. Leach bought 240 lbs of square iron for the vane. George has gone to singing society. I went to writing school. 
Wednesday April 22, 1829. The weather cool and windy. Business not good. 
Thursday April 23,1829. Weather cool. Business poor nowadays. Went down to the river today to see the waves run in the river. Wind very high. Went to writing school. 
Friday April 24, 1829. Weather cool &c. 
Saturday April 25, 1829. Weather cold. Business poor. Went to writing school this afternoon, very cold there. Went to singing school tonight. Mr. Moore did not come on account of the school which was held tonight to see if the district will vote to have it moved back. It was a vote. We sung among ourselves. Singing meeting adjourned to Tuesday eve. 
Sunday April 26, 1829. Weather pleasant. Arose about 7 o'clock. Went to meeting. Mr. Cummins of Salisbury preached. He is a smart man. Mr. Williams has gone away down country, is expected will be gone some time. Had a lecture in the evening, it was very good. Good music likewise. Went to bed in good season. 
Monday April 27, 1829. It is very pleasant to day but chilly this morning. I received a small bundle from home this evening by the ivlail Carrier. Went to writing school this afternoon,like it much. 
Mr. Wheeler of Bow that had a cancer on his face was buried yesterday. Mr. A. Hutchins is a going to move his red shop which sets by his house opposite the Brick Meeting House. 
Tuesday April 28, 1829. It is rather cool today. Business dull. It has been a remarkable backward and cold spring this year so far. Went to singing school this evening, not many there. This is the last evening. George went [to] ride on Ballards horse. 
Wednesday April 29, 1829. Weather very pleasant. This is the warmest day we have had this year, I think. Mr. Kent went to Boscawen today The corner of the 2d Cong[gregationa]l Society or Unitarian will be laid on the 30th. Mr. Gall hauled Mr. Hutchin's building (red) a little south of his house up opposite the Brick Meeting House. He broke an axle of 1 set[t] of wheels. Mr. John Ordway was married tonight at Mr. Boutons, he is going to live opposite here where Wm. Elkins lived before he moved to Gilman.town. 
Thursday April 30, 1829. lt rains all day. No business. Writing school ends tomorrow. I am going a Maying tomorrow morning if weather permits. 
The cornerstone of the Meeting House was not laid áon account of rain. Miss Ann E. Shepherd arrived at the Kents tonight from Portsmouth, an a[c]quaintance of Augusta. 
Friday May 1, 1829. Arose this morning at 1/4 of 5 o'clock, went and took a walk, didnt get any flowers. It is a very pleasant day, going to lay cornerstone tomorrow at 5 o'clock P.M. 
Saturday May 2, 1829. Weather very pleasant. Business not good. Our folks sent me over a pr. of thin shoes, they are all well. The cornerstone was laid this P.M. at 5 o'clock. There was in the box a record of organization of the Society Church &c., one of every newspaper published in town, a short history of the settlement &c. of the place. The order of exercises was: 1st, a prayer by Rev. Mr. Thomas, a short address, a prayer and Old Hundredth. 
Sunday May 3, 1829. Cool today. Arose at 7. Mr. Cresey, a young man that preached before, preached. Sunday School began today. Met in the afternoon to sing. Did not go to meeting in the evening because it rained. I had no umbrella. 
Monday May 4, 1829. Rained most all day. No business hardly. Sold 3 guns. Looks like rain tomorrow. Training tomorrow. 
Tuesday May S, 1829. Rainy in the morning. Very pleasant in the afternoon for training. Companies look very well. The Artillery had a little spat with Capt. Putneys Company on the other side of the river, nobody hurt except some of their hands cut a little with the swords and bayonet[t]s. Capt. Pecker was Capt. of the Artillery, Capt. Blake of the Light Infantry, Capt. Manly Carter of Troop. George feels rather tired marching so much. Saml. Evans Jr. is a going up to New Hampton Academy tomorrow morning. 
Wednesday May 6, 1829. The weather very fine. Business dull. Worked in garden this forenoon. Mr. Eliot. A. Hill has failed today. It is thought to be a bad one. He was struck upon by two or three of the traders there first. 
Thursday May 7, 1829. Arose a little before 6 o'clock. Very pleasant morning. George went to ride this morning. We do not need any fire mornings and evenings now. 
Friday May 8, 1829. Pleasant weather. Business very dull now. George has been at work in the garden yesterday and today. 
Saturday May 9, 1829. Looks some like rain. No business. Rained this afternoon. Mr. Kent talks of going to Boston Monday. Mr. Pete Smart failed yesterday. Bad failure. Mrs. Evans went to Boston on the 7[th]. George sleeps there one night and another. 
Sunday May 10, 1829. Rained all day. Went to Unitarians today because I had to drive Mrs. Kent up. Went to the Courthouse in the evening. Mr. Bouton read a sermon on the duty of parents to their children. It was very good. 
Monday May 11, 1829. It blowed very hard last night, slept at Mrs. Evan's, arose at S o'clock. Very cold and windy today. Had a fire. Mr. Kent's a going to Boston in the morning. SC [?] going to sleep at the store tonight, George at Mrs. Evans. 
SB 
Tuesday May 12, 1829. It is very cold today. Business dull. Mr. Kent went to Boston today. We had a fire today. Sent my coat home to be mended this morning by mail carrier. I.K. Pages shop was sold at auction to Charles Hutchins for 27 1/2 dollars today. Two young men have sat up a store in town under the firm [name?] of Lincoln & George. They occupy I. G. Williams store. 
Thursday May 14, 1829. It is very pleasant. Business dull. Mr. Lang came today and began to make us a cupb[oard] in our bedroom to put clothes in. Sally washed our bedroom out. Folks are very busy about planting. Mrs. Evans arrived tonight from Boston. 
Friday May 15, 1829. Very pleasant day. No business hardly. Mr. _ Lang did not come to fixour cup[boar]d. The new meeting house is all raised. There is at the Eagle Coffee House a "Cotillion Party" tonight. Mr. Pearsons is whitewashing at the house today. 
Saturday May 16, 1829. The weather pleasant in the morning but rainy in the afternoon~ Business not good. Went fishing this afternoon and all I caught was a wet jacket. Rains very hard tonight. 
Sunday May 17, 1829. The weather very pleasant. Mr. Williams preached today, he has been unwell lately. We had a meeting in the evening on the floor of the house, it was very good and very good singing likewise . 
Monday May 18, 1829. Very pleasant day. Business not very good. Mr. Lang has been making closet up to the house today. Samuel Evans Jr. got home from N. Hampton last Saturday, he likes [it] very much. 
Tuesday May 19, 1829. The [weather] rainy all day except in the morning. We moved our bed up stairs today. Some nails arrived today from Boston for us. 
Wednesday May 20, 1829. The weather very warm, business very dull. The old Col's folks are expected home soon. 
Thursday May 21, 1829. The weather very warm. Business very dull. Old Col's folks arrived tonight from Boston. Our folks sent me over two pair of thin pantaloons today by Mr. Chase. I bought me a pair of pumps today. We expect Mr. Kent home soon. 
S9 
Friday.May 22, 1829. The weather is very warm. Arose at 1/4 past 5 o'clock. Business dull. Mr. Kent arrived today from Boston. We heard today that Gibbs & Greenleaf, papermakers of Warner, had failed. They were owing Mr. Kent a little. We had 6 blbs. of flour tonight from the boats. 
The new church is all boarded and the workmen have began to shingle it. 
Saturday May 23, 1829. Very warm weather. No business. 
Sunday May 24, 1829. Excessive warm. Mr. Williams preached in forenoon but attended the funeral of Mrs. Chamberlain of Bow in afternoon. Mr. Shed of this town who is helping Mr. Bouton in his duties filled his place. Had a meeting in eve on floor of house. 
Monday May 25, 1829. Business dull. More goods came today. 
Tuesday May 26, 1829. Excessively warm. More goods came today, expect more tomorrow. Isaac Hill arrived from Washington tonight and Mr. Sarni. Evans from Boston. 
Wednesday May 27, 1829. Very warm. Old folks say this is the warmest spring they ever knew. Hardware came up today. We have to work pretty hard now. Not much business. 
Thursday May 28, 1829. Warm. Got most all goods on shelf today and 
1/2 of the iron up. Not much business. Uncle Davis came over today, folks all well. Father is going to Portsmouth soon. 
Friday May 29, 1829. Very warm. Got all goods cleared away. Not much business now, shall have next week. 
Saturday May 30, 1829. Cool this morning, looks likely for rain. Light Infantry trained today. Business none. Old Col. got home from Boston tonight. George is very tired, been a training all afternoon. They look very well. 
Sunday May 31, 1829. Arose at 7 o'clock, a very pleasant day. Mr. Williams preached. Had a meeting in the evening. Dont feel very well tonight. 
Monday June 1, 1829. Looks rather cloudy. Business pretty good. Got up the remainder of the iron today. The circus is performing in town. Mr Stephen Browns oldest child is dead. Sent some cloth home 
to make me a pair of pantaloons  of.  
Tuesday  June  2,  1829.  Very  pleasant,  only  some  dusty.  Court  
members  come  in very  fast  now.  I have  heard  that  Gov. Pierce  is  

some unwell The circus perform[e]s tonight. 
Wednesday June 3, 1829. Very warm. There is not much business. The votes for Governor were not counted today which they ought to have been, and of course this Governor is an unconstitutional one. There is a great fuss. 
Thursday June 4, 1829. Very warm. Great many people here. Father was over. I am going to school a week from next Friday. Artillery is out, music from Hillsborough. Saw Noyes tonight and had a long talk with him. He is at College now. The work of "Reform" begins to be seen in the Legislature already. 
Friday June 5, 1829. Very pleasant. Going home tomorrow with Mr. Chase. Business not brisk. 
Chichester Saturday June 6, 1829. Looks some like rain. Started for home this morning at 1/2 past 6 in a waggon. Arrived about 9 1/2, found folks all well. The circus performed here this eve, it was full. 
Sunday June 7, 1829. Rained some today. Did not go to meeting. Aunt Sally is up. Uncle and Mary Ann started for Somersworth tonight, going down to **-!rt*in North*****. Aunt Ruthannah is going to make me a frock coat. 
Concord Monday June 8, 1829. Weather hazy and rainy. The circus has gone to Pittsfield this morning. I went to Concord this afternoon, had to ride on top, got wet. 
Tuesday June 9, 1829. Very comfortable day, not much business. 
Wednesday June 10, 1829. Very pleasant day, not much business. 
bl 
Thursday June 11, 1829. Comfortable weather. The Legislature has chosen Mr Pickering Sec teary [Secretary] instead of *****, Palmer for ***** instead of****** &c. Going up to New Hampton tomorrow, got my new coat. 
New Hampton Friday June 12, 1829. Arose this morning about 5 o'clock, opened the store and got ready for New Hampton. Went up to the house and got some breakfast . It is a very foggy morning. Started about 7 o'clock in stage for N.H. Had a very pleasant ride this morning as far as Franklin Village when it began to grow warm and dusty. The country from Concord is very hilly (but good) and there is nothing in some places to meet the eye but frightful! precipices and rock piled one [a]top the other. From Franklin up to N. H. is likewise more hilly and mountainous but notwithstanding there are many good farms. 
We arrived at N. H. about 4 o'clock and I stopped at Capt. Norris's but he could not board me and so I went to Capt. Honeyfords. I have a fine room and I think a good boarding place. The Institution stands on a rise of ground and is in 2 seperate [separate] buildings. I have been to see Saml. Evans and Carter from Concord. They like [it] very much. They board at Capt. Norris's. It is 9 o'clock and I feel tired enough to go to bed early. á 
Saturday June 13, 1829. Arose at 5 1/2 o'clock. It is a fine morning. Took breakfast at 7 o'clock. Went to the academy at 8 and saw Mr. Farnsworth. Going to study Arithmetic, Geography, E[nglish] Grammar &c. No school this afternoon. A number of us went upon the [top] of a high hill called the "Pinnacle." We saw a great number of miles around. We went into the water tonight. 
Sunday June 14, 1829. The weather very warm. There is a great "Camp Meeting" about a mile from the place of the Freewill Baptists. There was more there than at Concord at Election. I never heard such a noise before. We had a very heavy thunder shower tonight. 
Monday June 15, 1829. The weather pleasant and not very warm. I study Geography and parse in Pope's Essay. I wrote a long letter home tonight. 
Tuesday June 16, 1829. It is very pleasant weather nowadays but cool mornings. I arise in the morning about 5 o'clock and go to bed at between 9 and 10. I go out most every day and pick some strawberries. I have sent down to Concord after my "Latin Grammar" and "Murrays Exercises." 
Wednesday June 17, 1829. The weather warm. Today is Composition Day. I did not write any. School let out this afternoon about 3 o'clock. 
Thursday June 18, 1829. The weather warm and very windy. We are going to begin Bookkeeping tomorrow. I think I shall not begin now till I hear from home. 
Friday June 19, 1829. The weather windy and cool. I received from Concord a book I sent for by stage, went strawberrying tonight. No school tomorrow afternoon. 
Saturday June 20, 1829. The weather very [warm?], especially this afternoon. I went a gunning and strawberrying but like to get wet. I hardly ever heard it rain faster than it did tonight. There will be preaching tomorrow. 
Sunday June 21, 1829. The weather very windy and cold. Went to meeting at the meeting house. A Mr. Evans preached. Very good preacher. Went to meeting in the "Chapel" in the evening. It began at 6 o'clock. 
Monday June 22, 1829. Weather cool and windy. Arose a little after 5 o'clock. Went to schole [school] at 8. I study in my room. We had a lecture on swearing last Saturday. Professor found that 13 had sworn or used profane language and he gave them to understand thatthey must come to him in private and promise to do so no more. 
Tuesday June 23 1829.Weather very windy and cool. We did not have any school this afternoon on account of a meeting. There will not be any for 2 days to come because the Convention is going to meet. We went into the water tonight, it is very cold. 
Wednesday June 24, 1829. It is very cold and windy. The Convention met at 10 o'clock today and opened the meeting by prayer. After, a very good sermon by Mr. Barnaby. Between meetings the Convention were transacting some business of theirs. In afternoon Rev. Mr Jackson preached, it was very good. 
Thursday June 25 1829. Weather very windy and cold. Mr. Stow preached this forenoon. Did not have any preaching this afternoon on 
account of so much [business?] in the Convention. Saml. Evans and I went down to the village today to see if we had got any letters there. We did not get [any]. It is pretty warm walking so far. 
Friday June 26, 1829. The weather pleasant. Nothing remarkable. Went to school as usual and recited in Geography and parsed in Popes Essay. 1 am going to study Arithmetic Monday. 
Saturday June 27, 1829. Weather warm. Went gunning this afternoon with Carter and Ingalls. I killed 1 Pigeon and a Woodpecker, Carter, 2 Pigeons and Ingalls, 1 Pigeon. We went in swimming tonight. Muscitoes very thick. It rained a little tonight. 
Sunday June 28.1829. Very rainy all day. Did not go to meeting. 
Monday June 29, 1829. Very rainy. Went to school as usual. 
Tuesday June 30,1829. Rainy &c. 
Wednesday July 1, 1829. Rainy &c. I spoke on the stage today, felt some skit[t]ish. 
Thursday July 2, 1829. Some rainy. Two men were blown up yesterday in a well here. One had all his foreteeth knocked in and his face blowed full of powder. The other had his arm so badly broken that it has to be taken off this morning. 
Friday July 3, 1829. Fine day. A number of us are a going up to Plymouth tomorrow if it is fair weather. Sent a letter home this morning and one to G[eorge] Porter. 
Saturday July 4, 1829. Weather looks some like rain. We started for Plymouth at 7 and arrived at 9 o'clock. The road between this place and that is good except it is all the way up hill and down. 
There are a number of exellent farms on the banks of the Pemigewassett the way we past. Plymouth is very pleasantly situated on the Pemigewassett River 40 miles from Concord. The village is not nigh so large as Concord. It has 2 stores, a courthouse, a meeting house and a number of other handsome buildings. We went to the meeting house at 11 and heard an exellent address against intemperance by Dr. Kitteridge of Lyme. There wasnt [as] many there as at the Convention here. We took an exellent dinner at Mr. Wm. Websters, the inn keeper, and in the afternoon we walked around 
the village and took a look of it. The Pemigewassett Bank is at this place. Carter and Evans went with me in one waggon and Jewett and Daine in another and an Eastman in a chaise. 
We started to come home about 4. We were overtook by 2 smart showers before we got home but did not get much wet because we had umbrellas a plenty. We passed through Walderness Village, which is a pretty little place. 
Sunday July 5, 1829. It rained almost all day. I went to meeting. Rev. Mr. Taylor preached. There was [not?] many there on account of the rain. 
Monday July 6, 1829. Went to school as usual. Raspberries very thick. The Legislature adjourned last Saturday. 
Tuesday July 7, 1829. Nothing remarkable nowadays. Tomorrow is Composition Day and I shall have to write. My subject is a short description of New Hampton. 
Wednesday July 8, 1829. We had a little shower this afternoon. We carryed our compositions up to the Chapel and the Professor told us that he had not time to attend to them that afternoon because he had not corrected all that he had on hand. 
He told us that we might either go to our rooms and study or stay there and study until 4 o'clock and bring their compositions in tomorrow morning. I went to my room. 
Thursday July 9, 1829. Went into prayers this morning as usual and Mr. Quimby handed me a letter from home informing me that all were well and that Uncle Amasa Leavey was dead. He died on the first of this month of the consumption. He was very resigned but said he longed to be with Christ. He told his friends not to weep for him but to prepare to follow him. What a happy instance this is of a***** Christian's resignation to the will of God. He has been sick for a year or more and confined to his bed nearly all of the time. He had his leg amputated last winter on account of a white swelling. 
Friday July 10, 1829. It is a very pleasant day with a very cool breeze blowing. They raised [razed?] the Professors stable day before yesterday, which stands near [where?] his new house is going to be put up. 
Saturday July 11, 1829. Weather very warm. Staid at home this afternoon, it is so warm. Nothing remarkable. Raspberries are very plenty this year and I pick them almost every day. 
Sunday July 12, 1829. Weather very warm today. Went to meeting. Mr. Evans preached. Went to Bible Class likewise. One of the scholars officiated because Mr. Farnsworth was at Bristol preaching. Went to the prayer meeting in the afternoon at 6 o'clock. We had a very heavy thundershower this afternoon. 
Monday July 13, 1829. Weather warm as usual. Nothing remarkable to write. They get along very fast with the Brick Building. The cellar is most finished. 
Tuesday July 14, 1829 .. Weather warm. Went to school as usual. Professor says he shall not let any one leave the school before the end of the term unless [on] account of sickness. 
Wednesday July 15, 1829. It is warm and pleasant. Speaking Day today. Most all of the scholars spoke their peices [pieces] for Exhibition. I did not speak. 
Thursday July 16, 1829. Weather warm. Went to school as usual. I have picked me out a peice for Exhibition. 
Friday July 17, 1829. Weather very comfortable. They are drawing bricks for the new building. The tongue of the bell came out yesterday morning and it has got to be fixed in. 
Saturday July 18, 1829 . The weather very warm. A number of us went into the water this afternoon. 
Sunday July 19, 1829. The weather very warm. It rained last night and this morning some. A number of us went up to the Freewill meeting. I did not like them very well, they were so long. Went to the meeting house in the P.M. Peacock, one of the scholars, preached, did not like him much. 
Monday July 20, 1829. Very pleasant day. I have Geography, English Grammar and Arithmetic now. They have appointed me monitor of our boarding house. 
Tuesday July 21, 1829. Very pleasant day. I hope I shall have a letter from home soon. Evans is going home Thursday to Concord. 
Wednesday July 22, 1829. Weather very warm. No school this afternoon. We have got to hand our compositions in tomorrow morning. I dont know why there is no school. We went into the water. There was a very heavy thunder shower here tonight. 
Thursday July 23, 1829. It is very warm today. Jewett and I got excused this afternoon and went over to Browns room. 
Friday July 24, 1829. Warm weather. Raspberries very plenty. They are laying the under pinning of the large building. 
Saturday July 25, 1829. Very warm. Jewett and I went over to Kelleys Pond this afternoon and got a lot of pond lil[l]ies. We had a boat and had a pleasant ride in it. 
Sunday July 26, 1829. Weather very warm. Mr. Evans preached today. Mr. Farnsworth is unwell and Rainsford took his place in the Bible Class. Went to prayer meeting in the eve at 6 o'clock. Carter 
brought  over his base viol and  we had  a play after meeting.  
Monday  July  27, 1829.  It is pleasant  day.  Received  a  paper  from  
Concord, it was from George Porter.  

Tuesday July 28, 1829. Pleasant weather. Went to school as usual. Speaking Day tomorrow. I went down to the village twice yesterday to get James Minot who has run away from school. I did not find him. 
Wednesday July 29, 1829. Weather pleasant. James Minot had to come back from Bristol afoot and his father rode by his side all the way. I spoke my piece for Exhibition today. 
Thursday July 30, 1829. Weather very pleasant. I have been expecting a letter from home but it has not come yet. Rains tonight. 
Friday July 31, 1829. Weather very pleasant, had a nice shower this afternoon. 1wrote a letter this afternoon to Aunt Smart and one to Mary Ann. 
Saturday August 1, 1829. This day begins a new month. Weather cool and cloudy, rains this afternoon. Went into the water, pretty warm. I hope I shall have a letter next week. 
Sunday August 2,1829. Very pleasant. Mr. Evans preached to young men this forenoon. Went to the Bible Class at noon. He preached about the manner of prayer in the P.M. He likewise attend[ed] the prayer meeting in the afternoon. 
Monday August 3,1829. Very fine morning. 
Tuesday August 4,1829. Very warm day. 1 sent a letter to Evans, George and to Father by Jewett, who went home this morning. 
Wednesday August 5,1829. Very warm weather. We spoke today. We went into the water this afternoon. 
Thursday August 6, 1829. Weather very warm. We went into the water again this afternoon. 
Friday August 7, 1829. Weather very warm. We are preparing for Examination. 
Saturday August 8, 1829. Weather very warm. It rained a little this afternoon. We went into the water. 
Sunday August 9, 1829. Warm day. A number of the Boston folks are up to Exhibition. Mr. Evans preached in the forenoon. Mr. Farnsworth delivered an address to the students in the afternoon, pretty good. Had a very heavey shower this afternoon. 
Monday August 10, 1829. Rainy most all day. Tomorrow will be Examination. 
Tuesday August 11, 1829. Very cool and windy today. I was examined this afternoon. The small scholars were in the forenoon. We were not examined very closely because they had not time. 
Wednesday August 12, 1829. Very warm. We went down to the village to hear the young ladies examined. They have a very good examination. The scholars in the Languages are a going to be examined this afternoon. 
I saw Mr. John Prescott last night from Chichester. He said he could carry me home Friday. Tomorrow will be Exhibition in the Meeting House where a state [slate?] is erected. I expect a letter from Father tonight with some money in it. A number of us met last night and played till 10 o'clock on flutes, clarinet[t]s, base viols &c. Had some very good music. They tried some experiments with the apparatus yesterday afternoon. 
Thursday August 13, 1829. We had an exellent exhibition today. We all assembled at the Chapel to attend prayers at 8. The students and Trustees marched from the Chapel down as far as Mr. Wards store and back again to the Meeting House accompanied with pretty good music. 
We then commenced speaking. Henry Ransom spoke first but _ he did not make out very well. He was so fright[e]ned that he came off without speaking. All of the rest made out very well except one of the Loring boys, who cried. The small scholars spoke first. And then the Original Pieces, both before intermission, which was only 20 minutes. The O[riginal] Pieces were very good. 
After recess came the selected pieces spoken by the large students generally. I spoke the last but did not feel much daunted. There was music between every 6 or 8 speakers, very good too. All went on with perfect order and decorum. The meeting was crowded to overflowing and almost as many out of doors as in, the weather being very pleasant. The exercises of the day closed with a short and appropriate address by Dr. Sharp of Boston to the students and the rest of the ordeance [audience], which was much admired, with prayer. I am going home tomorrow by the way of Meridith with Mr. John S. Prescott. My letter from Father has not come yet and_it had some money in it, Mr. Prescott said. I dont see where it is. Went into the water tonight with a number of others. Carter and Ingall are goingdown in the stage tomorrow. Mr. Prescott let me have $2.00 to pay my tuition which was $2.43. Mr. Hanaford is a going [to trust?] me for my board till I can send it up. I am going to start earl[e]y in the morning if I can. 
It is a charming evening. The moon is full. I believe all the folks that attended the Exhibition were very well satisfied with it. 
Chichester Friday August 14, 1829. Capt. Hanaford awoke me at 5 o'clock this morning. I got ready to start but Mr. Prescott did not come till 7 o'c[lock]. The first 4 miles of the road was the worst that I ever traveled in my life before. We went to Meridith first and stopped about anhour. 
It is a very pretty village and contains a cotton factory which adds much to the importance of the place. There are likewise here a bank, an academy, meeting house, 2 taverns, 2 or 3 stores and a court.house. 
I went to see Charles Wingate who went around the village with me. We had a fine prospect of Sanbornton Bay in coming from New Hampton to Meridith. 
We started about 11 o'clock and arrived at Gilmantown Corner. It was. a hilly road but smooth. Here we took dinner at Mr. French's tavern. There is an academy, a meeting house and a number of stores in the village. 
We started from here about 1/2 past 6 o'clock. Mr. Prescott sold the chaise for $100 to Col. Wood of Loudon, which was what he went tip to New Hampton to [do, to] sell the chaise, and he hired a waggon to go home in. Arrived at home about sunset, found folks all well. Father is fixing the mill. 
Saturday August 15, 1829. Weather warm. Went down to the mill and found them fixing in a new water wheel to carry 2 kind of stones which will make 4 in the whole. There were a number of hands here this afternoon a clearing out the river below the mill of stones and gravel. 
Sunday August 16, 1829. Weather warm. There was no meeting at the Meeting House but one at the school house near Mr. Carpenters. A Mr. Stickney preached. I did not go but read "Scotts Bible" most all day. We had a conference this afternoon in the school house over Mr. Hopkinsons Hatters shop conducted by Dea[con?] Tilton and Mr. Tenney. Considerable of a number there. 
Monday August 17, 1829. Warm weather. There is a school (private) kept here by a Miss Weare over Mr. Hopkinsons Hatters shop. She has about 20 scholars and has 7 /6 pr. week and boarded. Father has gone to Loudon to see about the chaise that John S. Prescott sold when we came down from N. Hampton. 
Father says he sold it too cheap and has gone to get it back or more for it. He has likewise gone to Gilmantown. Uncle Samuel Libbey was over today. Grandfather's folks were all well. 
Theodate Davis came home from Portsmouth last Friday. She has been gone just 2 years since she last went down. I am going over to Concord this week if I can. Mr. Hopkinson is a making hats here. 
l1 
Tuesday August 18, 1829. Very rainy today. I went a fishing but I caught nothing but a wet jacket. I want to go to Concord tomorrow. 
Concord Wednesday August 19, 1829. Warm weather. Started for Concord this afternoon 3 1/2 o'clock and took the stage, for Prescott is sick and a man by the name of Walker drives. Arrived at Concord at 6 o'clock. Mr. Kents folks are all well and glad to see me. Nothing remarkable happened since I went away. 
Thursday August 20, 1829. Weather very warm. I saw Mr. Kent about going away. He said he was perfectly willing if I did not like the business and wanted to pursue my studies. He gave me a long piece of advice. George asked him if he would not let him go up to school at N. Hampton and he said he might. He is going to have a young man who use[d] to tend for Dr. Chadbourne in Conway. He is coming next Monday. 
Friday August 21, 1829. Weather is warm. Not much business. One clothier was in with a small 'memorandum. Going home tomorrow morning in stage, carryed my box of things up to Genl. Wilsons tonight. Wrote a letter up to Capt. Hanafords to speak for George's board. 
Saturday August 22, 1829. Weather very warm. Started for home this morning at about 7 o'clock on the stage. They are running opposition stages from Concord to Boston at a great rate. George is going up to N. Hampton on the 31 [st] of Aug[ust] with me. 
I shall now fit for College. I can fit in one year and I do not know whether I shall enter advanced or not. 
Sunday August 23, 1829. Very warm day. I went to meeting at the Meeting House which was conducted by the Deacons Lane and Tilton and Mr. Jona. Marden. The fires do great damage in the woods. I went to the Conference tonight. The seats were all full, we had a good meeting. 
Monday August 24, 1829. Weather very warm and dry. Mother, Mary Ann and I went over to Grandfathers, found folks all well except Aunt Sally Libbey who had the teethache some. Betsey Leavey is teaching the school here. She has about 35 scholars. 
7Z 
Grandfather went down to his watering place in the pasture to clear out the leaves and stones and I helped him. Uncle Samuel is at work at Genl. Blakes. 
Grandfather says it is the dryest now that he has known it for many years. Corn is all drying up and if we dont have some rain soon crops will be slim. 
The woods are so dry that there are fires all around and folks are fighting it nicely. We heard that Mr. Jacob Daniels is very sick of the cholera morbus and is expected will not live. There will [be] but very few apples this year. Simeon Leavey has come up from Malden with his wife and wifes sister. He is going [to] move up and live in the house formerly ocu pied by Daniel Leavey and is going to build a blacksmith shop opposite. Started for home at 6 o'clock. 
Tuesday August 25, 1829. Weather warm. Got 10 or 12 hands at work on the mill. They are altering the plan of letting the water onto the wheels. In this plan the wheels will be covered with water as a floom [flume] and the spouts will be cut through the bottom on top of the wheels. There will be 4 spouts to a wheel but not so large as before. They have got it most done, the floom I mean. They will let the water in tomorrow. Mr. Berry come from Pittsfield to do some plastering at the mill and sets the Clothiers plate. They are under.pinning Mr. Hopkinsons shop. I signed the Temperance paper yesterday. Mr. Tenney had it. Very dry, a little rain would do good. 
Wednesday August 26, 1829. Weather warm but some windy. Killed a duck today. Mr. Jacob Daniels died night before last at 4 o'clock in the morning and was buried today. Mr. Carpenter preached the sermon. It was very good, I heard some say. They let the water upon the wheels tonight. If they go well I am going to send to Concord tomorrow by Mr. Whitney, who is going over. 
Thursday August 27, 1829. Weather very warm today. Mr. Whitney went to Concord this morning and I sent over after some braid to make a watch safe of. He got back about 4 o'clock. Pigeons are very thick here. They drained the water out of the dam last night. 
Friday August 28, 1829. Weather very warm. Mary Ann has got my watch safe done and purse too. They stopped the water tonight in the dam. It will take about 2 days for it to fill again. I killed a duck yesterday with Mr. Cates gun. 
73 
Saturday August 29, 1829. Weather cool and feels more like rain than ever. Mr. Cate and [I] went out after pigeons. We did not have very good luck. We fired 5 times each and killed only 2 pigeons. They were very plenty too. It rained a very little tonight. It is a clearing off and I think we shall not have any more. I am going to New Hampton Monday. 
Sunday August 30, 1829. Weather looks some like rain. Went to meeting. Deacons Lane and Tilton took the lead and Jona. Marden read a sermon in the P.M. and Mr. Foster in the A.M. They have a very good Sunday School here now. Mr. Jona. Marden is Principle. Went to the Conference in the evening after meeting Mrs. Hopkinson a day or two ago. I am already to start in the morning for Concord. Joseph Bickford is a going over with me. 
Concord Monday August 31, 1829. Mother awoke me this morning before 3 o'clock. I arose and dressed myself, went down and found Joseph Bickford and his father who are going over in a double waggon so [as] to bring home some clapboards. I ate some breakfast and bid the folks good morning and [left] at 3 1/2. Arrived at Concord at 5 1/2. Hardly any of the stores open. Went down and found George all ready to start. We went up to the house to see the folks and bid them "good morning." We started about 7 o'clock in the stage. Dudley has left off driving on this route and drives towards Boston. They have a new driver from Sanbornton to Plymouth, and Langdon drives from Concord to Sanbornton. But the new one drove down to Concord Saturday and back this morning. There was only George and I, who rode outside, and an old fellow inside. We enjoyed ourselves very well. We took dinner at Mr. Tiltons at Sanbornton Bridge. Our stage affair [fare] was only one dollar. We rode in a covered waggon from Lambornton to New Hampton, did not like it very well. Arrived here about 4 o'clock. Found Capt. Hanaford and all the folks well. There are about 75 students here and 30 at the village. 
New Hampton Tuesday September 1, 1829. Weather very warm. George and I arose 
this morning about 5 o'clock and went down to the river a bathing 
before breakfast. 
We entered the Institution this morning. I am going to study Greek this term. George is [to study?] Grammar, Geography, History and Arithmetick. 
74 
Wednesday September 2, 1829. Weather remarkably warm. The wells are most all dry around here. Get along very well in reciting my Greek Grammar lesson this morning. It thunder[ed] and lightning[ed] tonight. I think we shall have a shower. Students come in very fast now. We went down to the village. George wanted to carry a letter down to Rev. Evans from Rev. Williams. We were very warm. 
Thursday September 3, 1829. Weather has changed very much since last night and itJs very cold this morning. It is cold enough to have a fire and it blows like a hurricane almost. It rained about one hour last night very hard. We arose this morning before 6. Re[s]cited my lesson very well this morning but Collins and Gould did not [do] very well. Our class has 4 in it: Burbank, Collins, Gould and myself. 
Friday September 4, 1829. Weather very cold and windy. I believe they are burning up Bridgewater, for the mountains are all on fire and the wind keeps it a burning. 
Saturday September 5, 1829. Weather windy but some warmer. George and I prepared to go up to the "pinnacle" this afternoon and went down after Rainsford to go with us. We did not go up but went over to see Rowe at Mr. Kelley's. He was not at home and so we came back and went down to the village after our newspaper but did not get it. I rode back along Capt. Hanaford. 
The Profs. read the By[e] ]laws this morning and made many remarks upon them, especially upon the yo[u] [ng gentlemen's associ[a] ting with the young ladies. They have got on the window caps of the new building. 
Sunday September 6, 1829. Went to meeting. Mr. Evans preached, had a good meeting. Had a good many students there. Mr. Farnsworth requested all the students of both apartments [departments?] to meet in the Chapel at noon and there he addressed us about half an hour on the importance of studying the Bible. There were a large number of young ladies from the village present. He did not give out our Bible Class lesson for next Sunday. Went to the prayer meeting in the P. M. 
Monday September 7, 1829. Windy and cold long towards night. Get along in Grammar very well and we shall soon get through. 
7) 
Tuesday September 8, 1829. Not so cold as yesterday but yet it's quite windy. 
Wednesday September 9, 1829. Not very cold but windy. School did not keep this afternoon and 8 of us went down to the Missionary Field and cut the stocks [stalks], which was about 2 acres. This field is carryed on for the purpose of aiding the missionary cause of Burmah and by the students only. We cut the stocks in 2 hours. It was good exercise. We got some good apples. 
Thursday September 10, 1829. Cool this morning but grew warmer towards night. We wrote off about warrants for the Capt. to warn his soldiers with because he had none printed. It took us about 1/2 day. 
Friday September 11, 1829. Did not rescite my lesson yesterday on account of my writing. The class went through the book [to] the last lesson.We begin the Greek Reader this morning. I did not have time to get my lesson very well. 
Saturday September 12, 1829. Weather windy and warm. Bridge.water is most all on fire and has been so for a month or 6 weeks. This wind makes it burn more fierce. George and I went down to the village last [evening?] to carry some letters to Prescott Durens bread man to carry to Concord. I wrote to S. Evans. 
We went upon the "Pinnacle" this afternoon but could not see much, it was so smok[e]y. We went down to the village. 
Sunday September 13, 1829. Went to meeting. Father Crockett preached, liked him very well. He is an old-fashioned preacher. Went to the Bible Class. Prof gave out the lesson the other day. Mr. Smith took the lead because Profs. was not there. Went to the prayer meeting in the evening. 
Monday September 14, 1829. Mr. Farnsworth mentioned this morning at prayers that he had been informed that G. W. Adams went down to Mr. Masons yesterday instead of going to meeting and that he would be punished for it. We got along very well in the Greek Reader. 
Tuesday September 15, 1829. Weather very windy and the air very smokey on account of fires. George Dana from Concord came up to school today. 
Wednesday September 16, 1829. Weather rainy this afternoon. There is a training down to the village, a great many of the students are obliged to go. Profs. divided off the students today for the Rhetorical Exercises as they are called. They consist of Written and Extemporaneous Debates, Dis[s]ertations, Reading and Speaking. This is a new a[r]rang[e]ment of this term only. He began with the names of [those?] beginning with the 3 first letters of the Alphabet, A.B.C., which will have to speak. D.E.F. will have to write disertations. 
G.H.I.J.Kwill have to write a Forensic. L.M.N.O.P.Q,R. have an ex.temporaneous debate. S.T.U.V.W.X.Y.Z.etc.-will have a Reading lesson. These exercises will be performed on Friday because of the training on Wednesday. 
Thursday September 17, 1829. Cool in the morning but a pleasant day. Tomorrow is the day for 11 Rhetorical Exercises" and I have a part in the Ex. Debate. 
Friday September 18, 1829. Cool this morn!ng but fair day. We began the "Exercises" this afternoon with about 12 speakers and a number of Disertations, then a written Forensic, then a[n] Ex. Debate of which I took a part. We got along very well for the first time. The readers would have come next but they were excused because there was not time to hear them. 
The students will be divided into 2 classes who will perform every other week so that there may be time. Jewett arrived tonight. He will board here. 
Saturday September 19, 1829. Very warm today. We went over into Bridgewater this afternoon to see the country. We went down to the village and crossed the river and went a mile or 2 into Bridgewater over hill and through woods &c. and found that the fire had done considerable damage. We came down to the mill dam whereá there is a new mill and just as we were going to cross we saw Esqr. Fletcher of Concord going to Plymouth. He said all the folks were well as common &c. We then crossed the river over the dam and the man that owns it says the water has not been so low before for 60 years as now. After we got across I killed 2 pigeons at one shot and did not see but one and another at one shot. 
When we got home at 6 o'clock we were very tired and I had to sit up till 1O to get my lesson. 
77 
Sunday September 20, 1829. Weather rather cool and rained this eve. Mr. Farnsworth spoke this A.M. because there was no one to preach owing to some disappointment. And in the afternoon we had a prayer meeting in the Chapel. I had the cholic some tonight. 
Monday September 21, 1829. Weather pleasant in the forenoon but rain in the eve hard. Get lessons as regular as ever. They have got the Meeting House about all shingled. A. number of the boys broke the bell last Friday by taking the tongue, which fell out, and striking on it very hard. They or the Trustees will have to buy a new one. It sounds like a broken kettle. 
Tuesday September 22, 1829. Weather pleasant but cold morning. We have to have a fire. It is very dry now about here. Went to the S. 
A. [?], had speaking and 2 Debates, all very good. I have declaimed this eve. Next eve that the soc[iety] meets I shall write a disertation. Bought***** and ring of Jewett and sold my flute for the same with 25 cents to boot. 
Tomorrow***** the "Exercises." Reading is my lot. 
Wednesday September 23, 1829. Pleasant day. Began the Rhetorical Exercises this afternoon with speaking and then the written debate. Two of those chosen were absent and so 2 others were chosen to extemporise. After these were the Ex. Debate and Reading and speakers at intervals. All very good. Capt. Hanaford has gone to muster and all are in a breese [breeze] about it here. I shall not go. I had a letter from home yesterday. The folks are all well and my cloak is done &c. Sit up late. 
Thursday September 24, 1829. Sat up late last night til 12 o'clock. George arose about 3 this morning and went to muster in a waggon which Esqr. Magoon fitted to carry a number. I arose between 6 and 
7. Almost 1/2 the school have gone to muster or somewhere else. It is one of the finest days that I know of in the country. I studied all day. Jewett had the headache badly today. George arrived from muster about 8 o'clock this evening, tired and dissatisfied with it. He said he saw a number of Concord folks there. There has been a number of very heavy frosts along back. 
Friday September 25, 1829.Weather hazy and some rainy. My lesson was pretty slim this morning. Four new students came yesterday and 2 today. Mr. Farnsworth gave out 2 questions to debate for next 
ZB 
Wednesday. Five or 6 Boys went to muster without leave and they are going to be punished. 
I sold my Ancient map the other day to A. Brown for 2/. We went out to the barn a husking about 1/2 an hour tonight. Capt. Page talks of going home next week and I am going to send home by him. 
Saturday September 26, 1829. Weather windy and cool. Went over to Capt. Norris's this afternoon and made me a cane. Came home and studied my Greek lesson till 11 o'clock at night. Dant like to get such long lessons as I have to get to keep up with the class. 
Sunday September 27, 1829. Weather very cold and windy. Went to meeting. Mr. Carlton of Hopkinton preached, liked him very well. I did not wear a great coat in the forenoon but in the afternoon Jewett staid at home and I wore his cloak. It was very cold in the forenoon. We had a Bible class and well attended at noon. Went to the prayer meeting in the eve. It was better attended tha[n] I ever saw it before. Mr. Farnsworth was there and made some remarks. George did [not] go but Jewett did. 
Worth took lead in speaking. There was a lecture at the Village at 7 o'clock. 
Thine earthly Sabbath, Lord, we love, But there's a nobler rest above; To that our longing souls aspire, With ardent pangs of strong desire. 
No more fatigue, no more distress, No sin nor hell shall reach the place; No groans to mingle with the songs Which warble from Immortal tongues 
No rude alarm of raging foes; No cares to break the long repose; No midnight shade, no clouded sun, Obscures the lustre of thy throne. 
Around thy throne grant we may meet, 
And give us but the lowest seat; 
We shout thy praise and join the song 
Of the triumphant, holy throng. 
Extract Monday September 28, 1829. Weather very pleasant. Rescited my lesson as usual. We get about 2 pages in the "Greek Reader" besides a lesson in the Grammar. The Brick Building does not go up very fast now. 
Tuesday September 29, 1829. It was rainy most all day. Went into 
the  L.A. {Literary Adelphi?]  tonight,  had  2 new  members  joined  
society.  The  exercises  were  very  good.  I read  a  disertation.  Wet  
walking.  

Wednesday September 30, 1829. We have had a variety of weather today, some times it rains and some times it is fair weather. It rains tonight. The 11 Rhetorical Exercises" were performed this afternoon and they were very interesting, I thought, especially the Extern. debate. The appointments for next week will be given out tomorrow morning. I had no part to perform. 
Went over to Capt. Norris' tonight to husking. There was a number there and we had a good supper but I did not eat any. I got home about 9. I have looked my lesson over once. 
Thursday October 1, 1829. Another month has past never to be recalled. And it ought to be mine as well as every one's duty to look back on the past month and see if we can in any way perceive how we have improved it better than its successors [ predecessors]. If in Iooklng back we perceive no improvement in our studies and if we cannot see that we are better prepared to meet our end with resig.nation it ought to be the duty of every one immediately to attend to these concerns. 
Who can recall past months and years? No one, I answer. Ohl that I might realize the instability of human life. 
Weather very cold and windy for the time of year. I went over to Collin's room this afternoon to study. We have to get for a lesson more than 2 pages, which is more than we have got before. I was appointed on a written debate this morning by the Profs. 
Friday October 2, 1829. Pleasant weather. Went to the prayer meeting in the "Literary Hall." About all the seats were full and it was a very interesting meeting. 
Saturday October 3, 1829. Weather pleasant. Rescited my lesson as usual. Went down to the other academy at 12 o'clock to hear the lecture on school teaching by Mr. Farnsworth. The subject today was on the government of a school teacher. I thought it was very good. 
80 
Sunday October 4, 1829. Windy weather and some cold. Mr. Evans preached. We had a very interesting Bible Class at noon. Went to the prayer meeting in the evening. I liked it much. 
Monday October 5, 1829. Weather cold and windy. I reported James Minot this morning for running away yesterday and not returning till this morning. He went home. Collins has left our class to study English because he is going to keep school this winter. Went to the Monthly Concert of prayer this evening, liked it. 
Tuesday October 6, 1829. Weather pleasant. James Minot run away today for home or for muster, which is at Alexandria. Charles Gould, Mr.áHanafords journeyman, and his brother Benj. Hanaford went to muster likewise. 
Went to the L.A. this evening. 
We had about the same performances as usual. We choose officers this evening. I did not have to do anything. I am on a[n] Extern. Debate next eve. I gave a letter to Capt. Page this eve to carry down to Father when he goes home, which will be soon. 
Wednesday October 7, 1829. Weather pleasant. Mr. Farnum has been some unwell lately. "Rhetorical Exercises" were performed this afternoon. I had to write a debate. James Minot has got back. He will be punished for running away.We pitched quoits tonight for exercise. 
Thursday October 8, 1829. Weather pleasant although some chilly. James Minot was tied all day in the Chapel and only came down at night. 
They are clapboarding the Meeting House. They have got up 2 stories on the Brick Building. Mr. Farnsworth spoke about some one who had wrote bad language on the desks of the Female Institution during the meeting which was held there Sunday night. He talked very sharply to the students say[ing] that he was sorry if any one of the students did it. 
Friday October 9, 1829. Weather not very warm but the sun is out which makes it comfortable. James Minot was tied all day and then whipped severely. They have now let him go. I did not go [to] the prayer meeting at the Academy. George and Jewett went. I have a lesson to get. Carter and I talk some of going gunning tomorrow. 
.81 
Saturday October 10, 1829. Weather very warm. Rescited my lesson as usual. We shall get through the 1st course next lesson. Went to the village to the lectures. Carter and I went a hunting this afternoon. I fired but once and did not kill. He killed a squirrel and duck. We saw a very large crane but could not get a shot at him. We did not have a Bible Class lesson assigned today for tomorrow. 
Sunday October 11, 1829. It was very foggy this forenoon and rainy in the latter part ofthe day. We went to meeting at the usual time and found that the folks had assembled in the Chapel but on account of the number they soon went to the Meeting House. It has been used by the men to fix their clapboards in to cover the house, which makes it very dirty. Mr. Evans preached with his usual good spirit for the welfare of us unworthy sinners. There was a considerable number present considering the weather. George attended the Berean Soc., which commences at 9 o'clock and continues till meeting time. At noon we had a very interesting prayer meeting instead of a Bible Class because no lesson was given out. It was held at the Meeting House. I have not got any lesso11-for tomorrow because I went a gunning yesterday. 
Never did I see Christians more anxious or make greater exertions for the salvation of lost and perishing souls than they do here. It appears to be their cheif object at all times whether in meeting or out, whether on Sunday or week days, to awaken sinners to a scence [sense] of their condition and to excite their brethren to greater exertions in the same Glorious Cause! I hope their exertions may not prove fruitless and void but that they may have the comforting thought to cheer them at all times that they have done their duty both to their Maker and to their fellow Beings around them. 
This will bear them up against all evils and be a consolation in 
time of adversity. They will have a mind con[s]cious of rectitude  and  
a soul that knows no guile.  
What  an  enlivening  thought  they  must  have  that  they  are  
treading  the footsteps  of their  Messiah. Christ  is evangelizing  the  
world.  
The Sabbath! What a blessed day!  
A season which the Lord has made  
For Christians to go up and pray  
In houses which the Lord has laid.  

82. 
It rains considerable to night. George has gone to the village with Mr. Cram to help take lead of a meeting there. Jewett and I went up to the prayer meeting at the Academy. 
We had a very interesting meeting. I believe there are 4 or 5 young men in the institution who are awakened to a scence of their condition. 
Monday October, 12, 1829. Weather quite pleasant today. I did not go up to school this morning because I had not my lesson. We got through the first course of the Greek Reader which is a very short time to go through. We go about 3 1/2 pages next lesson. I received my things from home which I have been expecting. They sent me my portable desk which I like very well, except the lock. I had a cloak which I like much, a pr. of pantaloons, 2 shirts, 2 drawers, a pr. of mittens, a shoe brush and a short letter saying that they are all well. 
Tuesday October 13, 1829.Weather very pleasant. Went to school and rescited my lesson. I did not rescite a Grammar 'lesson. Mr. Farnsworth has gone to Concord to the Association, he went yesterday. I went to the L.A., had a very interesting meeting. I was on a Debate (Ext). I have no part tomorrow nor next Tuesday eve except to speak. Mr. Farnum will take the lead tomorrow in the "Rhetorical Exercises." 
Wednesday October 14, 1829. Weather fair. Mr. Farnum heard the "Rhetorical Exercises" today. They were not quite so good as they generally are. 
They do not get along very fast on the new building because they have not bricks. We get 3 pages a day in the Greek Reader besides a Grammar lesson. They get along very well in clapboarding the Meeting House. There has been a number of new students lately entered. 
Thursday October 15, 1829. Weather pleasant but cold mornings. George swapped watches with A. Rainsford day before yesterday and George [got?] one dollar to boot. My Butmans Greek Grammar has come at last from Concord. It has been sent for a week or more. Hutchins and I bought one each. They cost almost $2.00 each. 
Carter and I went a hunting about 4 o'clock after muskrats but we did not kill any. 
Friday October 16, 1829. Weather very pleasant. Rescited my lesson to Mr. Farnsworth who got back from Concord yesterday. He read the 
63 
Bylaws this morning to the students. The prayer meeting in the Academy tonight was as full as the seats could accom[m]adate. 
Miss Perkins arose and addressed the meeting very well She has obtained a hope. It was a solemn meeting to me. Mr. Farnsworth appointed a meeting of inquiry at his house tomorrow night and think I shall go. They have laid the 3d flooring of the new building. There are a number of the students who have secret convictions in their hearts. 
Saturday October 17, 1829. Weather very pleasant and warm. Rescited as usual. Went to the village to hear the lecture and it was on the Penalties, ways and means of punishment of scholars. I liked it very well. I staid at home this afternoon studying and reading. A large house, barn and cabinet makers shop was burnt at Bristol not long s[c]ince, owned by 2 men by the name of Bryant. It was insured by the Mutual Insurance Com. for $1,000. The fire caught in the cabinet-makers shop and spread very quickly so that but little was saved from the fire . 
Sunday October 18, 1829. Weather cloudy and there are some indications of an approaching storm. Went to meeting at the usual time. Mr. Evans preached a very good sermon. 
In the A.M. the text was in 1st Epis. of Peter, 4:18. "And if the righteous scarcely be saved, where will the ungodly and the sinner appear?" In the P. M. he took the 28[th Chapter] of Genesis, which was on the subject of Jacobs dream and Journey &c. 
At noon we had an interesting Bible Class from the 16 and 1 7 Chapters of Luke. Prof., instead of asking the students questions, let the students ask him. Went to a good prayer meeting in the evening. Four young converts arose and addressed the meeting solemnly. 
There are many in this place who are under conviction. I never saw a meeting so well attended and such a general seeking after the one thing needful. There is an inquiry and prayer meeting appointed at Dea[con] Gordons tomorrow evening. 
Monday October 19, 1829. Weather quite pleasant although some windy and chilly. Rescited as usual but did not have my lesson very well. Sold my fowling piece to Theodore Davie for a lot of books, a gold ring and $1.00 in money. I called the gun worth 7 dollars. I dont know as Father will like my selling it very well. I have been thinking for a number of days back about my course of life that I have been living, which is in total enmity against God and my mind has been very deeply impressed with my state as a sinner. We went to meeting at Dea[con] Gordons which was a very interesting one to me. There was an inquiry meeting in our room.I went into it. There was about a doz[en] in the whole. We had a very solemn meeting. Mr.Farnsworth and Evans was with us and talked with us separately. There is a meeting appointed at the village tomorrow night by Mr. Evans and an inquiry meeting after that at his house. 
Tuesday October 20,1829. Weather very windy and cold. I did not go up to the Academy this morning because I had not my lesson and I dont feel capable of studying in such a state of mind as I now am in. I have been very much troubled today in my mind on account of my condition. I cannot see my sins. This is my greatest source of regret and sometimes I think my convictions will wear away and this again fills me with sorrow. But I hope I shall be made to see my sinfulness. O! Lord do give me instruction from above. Started for the village to meeting about dusk. We had a very good meeting. Most all females attended. The room was crowded at the inquiry meeting. There were 6 who were inquired of. Miss Hadley, one of the instructresses, a Miss Hardy, Miss Perkins (Sophia), Mr. Philbrick and another young man and myself. I was some cold going and coming. 
Wednesday October 21, 1829. Weather very cold and windy for the time of year. Arose this morning about 6 o'clock. I feel about the same as ever. I feel that I am sinning against God with every thought. 
I spent this forenoon in prayer and reading. Dant feel any relieved from the burden that rests upon me. The most that I fear is that my convictions will wear away, and leave me in a worse state than before. But I hope, not. 
Thursday October 22, 1829. I feel about the same as ever and as anxious as ever, I think. I went over to the "Mansion House" with George and talked upon religion with Mr. Braybrook and Hutchinson. Weather very pleasant and rather warmer than yesterday.The "Rhe.torical Exercises" were omitted on account of Mr. Farnsworths and Farnum's being sick. 
Friday October 23, 1829. Feel about the same as usual. Sometimes I feel almost discouraged and then again I think I cannot leave off trying to have an interest in Christ. 

There has been a number who have attained a hope. Mr. Fisk, Mr. Andrews, Coc[h]ran, Dodge, and Miss Perkins and Smith and a considerable number who are anxious to obtain a hope. I went to meeting this evening and had a very good one. After meeting we had an inquiry meeting of about 10 minutes. Mr. Morrill arose and told us he had obtained a hope. 
Saturday October 24, 1829. I feel the same as ever, only I fear my convictions will wear away. I went up to school this morning, did not rescite. Got a short lesson this afternoon. 
Sunday October 25, 1829. Weather very pleasant and warm. Went to meeting. Mr. Evans preached, liked him well. Dont feel any better in my mind than ever. I fear that I never shall. Mr. Smith and Wiggin have obtained a hope that they have been born again. 
Monday October 26, 1829. Dont feel any more settled in my mind than ever. Cloudy and misty today. 
Tuesday October 27, 1829. Cool today especially this evening. I feel about the same as ever. I received a letter from Mother today saying that they were all well but that Father had been sued by Col. Kent, George Kent, Col. Ambrose, Jacob Perkins, Mr. Tenney and Mr. Hopkinton. This was rather unwelcome news to me but there is no help for it now it is done. She wrote likewise that Father thought he could pay all if no more cost was made on it. 
Wednesday October 28, 1829. Very pleasant and warm. The new meeting house was dede[i]cated today. They had a very good one, I heard, but we did not go because we thought the seats would be full. It was dedecated a Congregational house. 
The" Rhetorical Exercises" were [omitted?]. 
Thursday October 29, 1829. Cool and cloudy today. I feel anxious to have an interest in Christ but the world appears to keep itself in my mind that I cannot obtain any peace. Mr. Fellows of Concord came in to see me, he is going home Saturday. 
Friday October 30, 1829. Weather not very pleasant but cloudy and cool. I sent home a letter by Capt. Page who was going down. I went [to] meeting tonight at the Academy. Had a very good but short inquiry meeting after the other. Miss Hadley and Hardy have obtained a hope at the other seminary and a Mr. Dow at this, and O! when shall I, it may be asked. I dont know as ever. 
Saturday October 31, 1829 . Very cold and windy in the morning. It rained a little in the afternoon and forenoon. Went down to the vil.lage to the lecture, liked it very well. It was on the studies and be.ginning of a school &c. They have got the Brick Building up so that the roof will be put on the first of next week. There appears to be considerable anxiety in the other apartment on the subject of religion. 
Sunday November 1, 1829. Cool day and looks like rain. Went to the village to meeting. The Meeting House is a very pretty house. The singers sit back of the pulpit. Mr. Evans [preached] from Psalms 
84: 10. He preached very well. In the afternoon he attended a funeral of Mrs. Simpson. The next time, 1 Peter, 4:7. She died a day or 2 since. There was no meeting in the afternoon but he preached a sermon at the funeral. It rained this afternoon some and in the evening. Went to meeting, liked it much. . 
Monday November 2, 1829. It is cold today and looks some like rain. They have got the frame of the roof of the new building up. Mr. Farnsworth has been unwell for a day or 2 of a cold. They are going to have some catalogues this term. They are subscribed for and will be had in a few days. 
Tuesday November 3, 1829. Weather some cloudy and rained a little in the morning. I had a letter from home with $15 in it. The folks are all well. Father has bought me an alarm watch and Mother, a seal. Father wants me to keep school this winter if I can and enter college next fall &c. Went to the L.A. this evening, choose officers. 
Wednesday November 4, 1829. Weather moderate. Did not rescite this morning because I went to the L. A. Last night I wrote a letter for home this evening. Mr. Farnsworth went away at noon and Mr. Farnum took his place at the "R. Exercises." I read. There was a good many absent. Got along very well. I shall not get a Greek lesson for tomorrow. 
Thursday November 5, 1829. Very windy and cold. I almost concluded to keep school this winter and rescited one lesson in arithmetic. But afterwards I concluded not to because Mr. Farns.
B7 
worth said it would be best for me to pursue my studies and that I could enter college in better standing. I wrote a letter home to that effect. I have not rescited for 2 lessons back. Mr. Farnsworth gave a lecture on Geography this afternoon and explained it with the globe &c. 
Friday November 6, 1829. Weather pleasant. I went over to the "Mansion House" tonight to an inquiry meeting after meeting. I liked it much. Went to meeting this evening, had an inquiry after meeting,, They have got the frame on the new building and have began to board it. They have got one gable end done and another most so. There will be 3, one at each end and one in the front fac[e]ing the road 
Saturday November 7, 1829. Weather looked like a storm in the morning and it rained and snowed and hailed alternately all the . afternoon. We went down to the lecture this forenoon and when we came back it snowed considerably. The subject of the lecture was on the study of the scholars in the school and what books to be used. I got my boots mended this afternoon, they need but little. I shall not have a lesson for Monday. 
Sunday November 8, 1829. Weather very cold and windy. Went to meeting in the morning without a great coat. I was some cold. Mr. Evans preached very well. 
There were 3 persons baptised at noon at a place called the "Baptismal Fount." It is a dam of water in a small brook a little this side of the Profs. house and a very convenient place too. The persons baptised were Mr. Fish, and Andrews and Miss Mary Perkins. They were baptised by Mr. Evans. 
Monday November 9, 1829. Windy weather today. I did not rescite this morning. 
Tuesday November 10, 1829. Weather hazy and rained in the evening. We went out into the Capt's field and got some peices of stumps for wood and it burns very well. There is going to be an inquiry meeting at Mr. Farnsworth['s] tomorrow night. 
Wednesday November, 11, 1829. Weather pleasant. "Rhetorical Exercises" were performed today. They were very good, especially 
the Written Debate. 
88 
There will be no other "exercises" this term. Next Wed. Mr. Farnsworth will hand in the Debates and Disertations which he has had to examine. 
I went to the inquiry meeting at Mr. Farnsworth's. There were 2 rooms for 2 different inquirers. The one for those who had any doubts concerning religion and the other for anxious inquirers. Mr. Philbrick and myself were of the latter Class, and Mr. Haseltine, Far.num, and Ingalls of the first. I had a very good season of conversation with Mr. Farnsworth. I dont know as I feel any more comfort or ever shall. 
Thursday November 12, 1829. Weather is pleasant and warm. Did not rescite this morning because I had not time to get it. This afternoon we were entertained with a number of experiments in with the Philosophical and Chemical apparatus, such as explaining the orrery of the Solar system, some experiments with the air pump &c. The young ladies from the village were up and the seats of the lecture hall were all full. 
In the evening we were entertained with some experiments on electricity, Hydrogen Gas &c. Chain lightning was shown and various experiments with gas and guns &c. which were not only entertaining but instructive. Got through about 9 o'clock. The hall was full to over.flowing and the small boys had to sit on the floor. We were all electerized. I took 5 shocks. 
Friday November 13, 1829. Weather very pleasant. We have been getting up mornings for a week past at about 4 o'clock. Jewetts alarm watch wakes us. George and I intend to walk down to Concord next Friday if nothing happens more than I know of now. Went to meeting in the evening, had a good meeting. Had an inquiry after. , 
Saturday November 14, 1829. We arose this morning about 6 o'clock and on looking from the window I found that it had snowed about 2 inches and continued all day for short intervals. I rescited this morning. 
Went down to the lecture this forenoon. It was upon studying Arithmetic, Geography, and English Grammar. This is the last lecture. I shall not have a lesson for Monday. The snow is about 3 inches to.night. 
I went over to Mr. Putney's tonight to get some money that I lent him about 1 month ago. He said [he] would come over Monday and pay it. 
C) 7' 
Sunday November 15, 1829. Weather warm and the snow melts away fast. We went down to the village to meeting. Mr. Evans preached very well indeed. I heard that Miss Garland had obtained a hope in Jesus Christ last night at a meeting at Mr. Taylors. And Oh! when will my time come that I shall feel to rejoice to God for my pardon of sins. I know not when. We had a prayer meeting at noon. 
Monday November 16, 1829. Rainy and hazy weather. The snow has all gone off most and makes it bad travelling. I went to meeting at Mr. Perkins'. There [were] quite a number there, most all were Profs. or had obtained a hope and I felt as though I was a Judas among the d[e]sciples of Christ and after meeting and after I had got home I felt that I had lost my burden and felt very light. I felt as though I wanted to praise God and to warn sinners to come to Christ and receive salvation. 
Tuesday November 17, 1829. Rainy and hazy weather. George, Jew.ett, Carter and I got a dismission today and paid off our bills. Went down to the village to meeting. George and Rainsford went down with me. Rainsford is under deep conviction. We had a very good meeting, especially the inquiry which was in Mr. Evans' house. The room was full. Misses Garland, Swasey, Adams, Thompson, Hardy, Hadley have obtained a hope. We had a delightful meeting. 
Wednesday November 18, 1829. Warm and pleasant weather. Went over to the Mansion House and talked with Mr. Braybrook and Hutchinson. Mr. Rainsford went over too. He is quite serious. I went down to his room yesterday and talked with him .. 
Thursday November 19, 1929. Weather foggy in morning. Exami.nation today. I went in a little while. Catalogues have come. Had a meetlng tonight. We are going home tomorrow morning. We intend to walk down. Capt. Hanaford is going to carry down our trunks to Concord. 
Friday November 20, 1829. We started this morning about 7 o' clock and walked down to Sanbornton Square before we called. We then called in to a store and warmed us. 
It is pretty cold this morning and we walked without a great coat. We then walked to the bridge and stopped there till the Capt. came along. We dont feel much tired yet. 
We started about 12 o'clock and Capt. went ahead, went down through Northfield and Canterb[u]ry. We went down to Blanchards 
jO 
tavern and to[ok] a luncheon. We then started and arrived in Concord about 6. We feel very stiff after sit[t]ing 5 minutes or so. We went into Mr. Williams this evening and had a long talk. I liked it much. I put up at Mr. Gen. Wilson's. I am going home in the morning in the stage. -
Chichester Saturday November 21, 1829. Weather moderate. I started in the stage this morning at 7 for home. A number of the students came down today from N. Hampton. I arrived at home in very good season. I had a chance to ride over from Gen. Blakes and have my trunks brought. I found my folks all well. All of the property is sold and Mr. Cram has hired the house and out buildings for 6 months so that we shall live here. The mill is fixed up nicely and has a***** and 4 rims of stones. 
Sunday November 22, 1829. Weather pleasant. There is no meeting in town so I had to stay at home and read. Aunt Ruhannah and I sung some. I feel rather lonesome to stay at home from meeting after attending so good ones as we have at New Hampton. 
Monday November 23, 1829. Did not do much but read today. I have some doubts and fears whether I have a good hope in the Lord Jesus Christ, but I hope that he will give me a believing heart and a searching spirit to see whether I am a follower of our "Blessed Lord." 0 what will be my sorrow if at last I find myself to be a hypocrite in his cause. Nlay the Lord grant that I may go on in the light of his countenance and continue to brighten in my hope till I be perfected in his glorious mansions above. 
Tuesday November 24, 1829. Weather moderate cold. I read in the "Pilgrims Progress" a considerable part of the time and find it a very instructive and useful book to me! I went to Concord today with Mr. Tenney and found it very cold and chilly. I saw George and he said he did not know whether he should stay with Mr. Kent or not this winter. He has been a marking and putting up goods since he came down. I bought a few for myself. We did not get home till about dark. 
Wednesday November 25, 1829. Weather some cold. I read some today &c. We expect to go over to Grandfather's tomorrow if weather &c. will permit. Mr. Hopkinson has been sick some time past with a complaint on the lungs, it was bad. 
91 
Thursday November 26, 1829. Today is "Thanksgiving Day 11 in s states viz. Maine, N. Hampshire, Mass., Con., N. York. When I awoke this morning and looked out I found that it snowed briskly and there was about 2 inches on the ground. I read till about noon when it stop[p]ed snowing a little while and I went and got a horse and waggon and we were going over to Grandsir's but it began to snow again and so we put it off till tomorrow. 
Friday November 27, 1829. Weather pleasant, the snow melts some today. We started (Mother, M. A. and myself) for Grandsirs in a sleigh and found it good sleighing. Grandsir's folks are well. Mehitable Libbey has gone home. She went home when her father was up. 
Grandsir is making pails. We came home about dark or before. 
Saturday November 28, 1829. I think I shall not go up to N. H. till Wednesday. I posted up Fathers day book today. The snow melts fast but freezes in the night. 
Sunday November 29, 1829. No meeting now. I talked of going to Pittsfield today but it rained last night and made the snow all soft as water almost, so I read all day most &c. 
Monday November 30, 1829. This is the last day of this month and a month long to be remembered by me as well as by others. This is the month in which I hope I found Jesus to [be?] precious to my soul. This is the month in which I found that comfort in believing which I never felt before. 
Tuesday December 1, 1829. Weather moderate. I am all prepared to go to Concord tonight to take the stage for tomorrow to go to N. H. Started about 2 o'clock, Mr. Cram with me. We got at Esq. Ambrose's at sundown and he (Cram) went over into the street with me. I have got my alarm watch which is repa[i]red, he asked $2.00. George has gone to Dover, he started this morning. I had a talk with Mr. Gantd &c., went to bed at about 10 o'clock. I saw Carter and he said he was going to keep school this winter and not go to school at N. H. 
Wednesday December 2, 1829. Started for N. H. In stage at 7. I came away from Wilson's and forget to pay my bill. Nothing happened more than common. I came up through Franklin Village and on that route. I arrived at New Hampton at 4 just as school was ended. 
I went over to "Mansion House" and was glad to seeá the folks. I shall [live?] alone at present till some body -comes. I had the headache some. Mr. Ingalls and Farnum have obtained [hope] and Ingalls is as happy as anyone could be now. á 
Thursday December 3, 1829. Weather cold. It rained last Tuesday night and carryed away all the snow. Went to school but did not enter. 
Friday December 4, 1829. Weather cold. Entered school today and did not rescite. Prof. gave us a lesson in Latin Tutor for tomorrow. 
Saturday December 5, 1829. There came about 4 in. [of] snow last night. Collins came up and slept with me last night. He is going to _ keep school at Meridith this winter. We rescited very well &c. 
Sunday December 6, 1829. Weather moderate in A. M. but rainy in P. 
M. and evening which makes the walking bad. Went up with the intention of going to the Berean Soc. but it did not meet this morning. Mr. Farnsworth preached today and excellently too. I never heard him preach so well. His subject was upon the happiness of the sinner and the Christian. 
There was a prayer meeting at noon instead of a Bible Class and Sun[day] School. I went to the prayer meeting, liked it. It is very slopy and wet going. 
Monday December 7, 1829. Weather moderate. Very mudy walking and wet too. I rescited my lesson as usual very well. I room alone in a very pleasant room. Mr. North who has been gone home has returned tonight. There is a great revival of religion in Sanbornton and Meridith. Our Class consists of Jona. Taylor, Fredk. Bartlett, and myself. There are S ladies at the institution here now. The school is not very large now. Messrs. Farnum and Ingalls have obtained a hope that they have been born again during vacation. 
Tuesday December 8, 1829. Weather very moderate. It rained this eve. Rescited as usual. We get 3 pages in the "Greek Reader" and a Grammar lesson. They are shingling the new building. Mr.Bray.brook, Brown and I went down and banked up a Mrs. Stephen's house, a poor woman. We worked about 3 hours. It rained last night and carryed away all the snow or turned it into water. I sat up till after 12 tonight. 
93 
Wednesday December 9, 1829. Weather moderate as can be expected. Went in and rescited as usual. Got along very well. We get about 3 pages at a lesson and a Grammar lesson. 
Mr. Farnsworth was called away this morning so that we had to rescite to Mr. Farnum. Wentworth has got back and will be in our Class. I like my boarding much. We not only live well as to our bodies but have wholesome food for our souls. I went down_ to the village this evening with Mr. Ingalls and Farnum at Mr. Ingalls Singing School. He has got a very good school for so short a time as he has been keeping. I played on my flute. We got back at about 10 o'clocká and I sat up till after 12. 
Thursday December 10, 1829. I arose about 1/2 past 6 this morning. I shall not get more than 2/3 of my lesson in Greek this morning. I felt very sleepy this morning. The Chapel caught on fire this morning by the stovepipe, which came apart where it went through the chamber floor and there caught. It was soon stopped. 
I was very cold when resciting this morning because the pipe was taken down to be fixed and we had no fire. Charles Eastman, a young fellow with whom I was acquainted at Pembroke, entered school this morning. Mr. Taylor at the village is his uncle and he boards there. I shall have to sit up late to get my lesson in Greek. I enjoy my mind very well now at times. But some times I am sorely 
tempted  and my mind  is filled with evil thoughts  which  by the help  
of God I hope  to [drive?] far away from  me.  
Friday  December  11, 1829.  Weather  moderate.  Got my lesson  as  

usual. Went to meeting tonight. Liked it very well. It snowed a little this evening. I have to sit up very late nights now to get my lessons. 
Saturday December 12, 1829. Weather moderate for the time of year. I rescited in the Latin Tutor this morning. I have 4 pages in Greek to get, I shall not get it all. Mr. Ingalls is going to begin his school at the village Monday. 
Sunday December 13, 1829 . Weather quite cool. We went down to the village to meeting today. Mr. Evans preached from 1 Epis. Gen. of John, Chap 1, 2 and 3 verses and 11 Chap. Hebrews and part of the 3[rd] verse, "How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation." I went about 5 or 6 miles this eve with Mr. Brown to Mr. Sinclairs district. He took lead of a meeting there. I was very tired when I came back. 
Monday December 14, 1829. Weather very moderate for the time of year and it thawed considerably. It rained very violently Saturday eve and did considerable damage to the roads. I am appointed on a debate next Wednesday (Written). I enjoy my mind considerable well at times and then again I have wicked thoughts pouring into my mind so that I take no comfort but when my mind is free from them. 
Tuesday December 15, 1829. Weather very pleasant today and it thawed considerably. Mr. Braybrook and I went up to the school yesterday to write from 2 till 3 o'clock and we intend to commence a regular system of writing and continue it. Mr. Bray brook and I study together a great part of the time. He is a studying the Greek Reader but is not so far advanced as our class. They have got the Meeting House áan finished, I believe, but painting, which will not be this winter. It looks quite respectable now. It has got [a] kind of porch before the front door. The new building is shingled. Mr. Farnsworth will move into his new house next month. 
Wednesday 16, 1829. It is quite moderate today. I did not get but a part of my lesson today, it was so hard. I think it is the most difficult that I have come across yet. It is in History and Biography. I went up to the R. E.'s this afternoon. One 1/2 of the students spoke, the other wrote a debate (one half of the Alphabet, I mean). It was my turn to write a debate but I did not and so I was excused. The Ex[ercises] were not very good. In the evening I went to the Singing School at the Chapel which has just began. There were about 15 there. 
Thursday December 17, 1829. The weather some cool but not much so for the time of year. I did not go up to the Academy today because I had not my lesson on account of the Ex[ ercises] and singing school yesterday. There are about 65 students here now. We have from 15 to 20 boarders here now. Mr. Ingalls has about 65 scholars in his school at the village which began Monday. I enjoy [my] mind now very well except at times when I am tempted and my mind is not [?] filled with sinfull thoughts, but I hope by the help of the Lord that I shall persiver [persevere] in the Good Old Way. 
Friday December 18, 1829. Weather moderate for the time of year And we have cold nights and mornings. I rescited my Greek lesson this morning. We get a Latin Tutor lesson for tomorrow. I went to meeting tonight and there were about 15 to 20 present and all had experienced religion except 2 boys who were [?]. We had a very good meeting. I spoke a few [words] and I think it relieved my mind considerably. I think it is the duty of everyone who has entertained a hope that they have been born again to endeavor to advance the cause of the Glorious Redeemer by speaking of his goodness to us un.worthy creatures and of warning sinners to turn from the error of their ways. 
And I feel that if I was able to speak better in his cause that it would be a great pleasure to me. 
Saturday December 19, 1829. I awoke this morning and found that there had come 2 or 3 inches of snow and that it continued to snow. I have got to declame [declaim] next week. I rescited in Latin Tutor this morning. I am appointed monitor for our hall the next week. It stopped snowing this forenoon. I saw Mr. Palmer of Concord, one who tended the stable for Mr. Gale. He said it was a time of health now there. There was a church meeting this afternoon at the Chapel. A Miss Sanborn is going to be baptized tomorrow. 
Sunday December 20, 1829. Weather very windy and cold and the snow flies nicely. I went up to the Berean Soc. and I signed my name to the Soc. book. They did not do much because there was not time. Mr. Evans preached in the forenoon from John 8:12. 1 liked him quite well. Miss Sanborn was not baptised at noon but after meeting. Mr. Strong preached in the afternoon [from] Hebrews 11 and 16. I went about 5 miles this evening with Mr. Braybrook to attend a meeting in Mr. Fox's district and at his house. There was not many there. We got home about 10 o'clock. Mr. Braybrook slept with me tonight because Mr. Rand is sick with the headache. 
Monday December 21, 1829. Weather very pleasant and the snow melts away very fast. We have got a new boarder, his name is Ho[y]t from New Chester. He will room with me. I rescited as usual. Mr. Farnsworth went over to Meridith to baptise 3 folks (young men). Mr. Rainsford went with him. He did not come back tonight. 
Tuesday December 22, 1829. Weather moderate for the time of year although some cold and chilly. Mr. Hoyt entered school this morning. Mr. Farnum heard us rescite our lesson this morning because Mr. Farnsworth has not got home yet. We get about 3 pages now and it is very hard. Miss Haseltine hears some of the classes rescite in the lecture hall. I have got to speak a peice tomorrow. It is "What is time?" 
36 
Wednesday December 23, 1829. Weather moderate. I spoke this afternoon. The "R. Ex's" were better than before. I have got to write a debate next week on this question, Is it right to punish a man with death for any crime? 
Thursday December 24, 1829. Weather not very cold but looked like a storm all day. Mr. Putney hauled us some wood this morning, 1/2 hard and the other 1/2 pine, for 7 / a cord. I rescited to Prof. this morning. I sit up last night till 1 o'clock. I went to the singing school last night, there were more than there were the last evening. 
I lent Mr. John W. Rand $2.08 last Tuesday. Mr. Farnum has had the headache for 2 or 3 days past. We voted in our singing school to choose Mr. J. W. Rand to invite the singing school of the village to attend ours. We had a little rain or mist today. 
Friday December 25, 1829. Weather moderate. Nothing very remarkable to write now. I went to meeting this evening. I liked it 
much. Mr. [? ] was there and spoke chiefly concerning death thought we had a very good meeting.  &c.  I  
Saturday rescited  December 26, 1829. Weather very moderate and warm. in Latin Tutor. I did not get my lesson very well. I wrote  I a  

part of my debate this afternoon and a letter home. I wrote in it something concerning baptism &c. Mr. A. Rand wanted me to go over to Kelly's Pond with him to help take care of the boys a skating and I went, had quite a skate. I was so unused to it that it made me very stiff. The pond is frozen very hard. 
Sunday December 27, 1829. Weather is as pleasant as summer now. The meeting was at the village meeting house. Mr. Evans preached very well and I liked him much. I sat in the singing seats in the afternoon. The Meeting House was quite full. There was a church [meeting] at noon at Mr. Evans house. At noon I went down to Mr. Ingalls, boarding with Mr. Farnum. Last evening I went down to the village to Mr. Ingall's singing school. It was the last evening and there were quite a number of spectators in. I played on my flute. There were 2 bass viols there, and they sung very well. I did not go to the evening meeting this evening but staid at home and conversed with Farnum. Mr. Farnum staid to the village last night with Ingalls when we went down to the singing school. 
Monday December 28, 1829. Weather very pleasant. I rescited as usual I have nothing remarkable to write now. It is very pleasant 
97_ 
weather now for the time of year. The year is fast drawing to a close when we must bid it farewell. 
Tuesday December 29, 1829. Weather quite pleasant. Mr. Braybrook went down to Mr. Farnsworths to fix something about his chaise. We have very remarkable weather now. They have got the coping on the new building and painted and it looks very handsome. 
Wednesday December 30, 1829. Weather quite pleasant. I have my debate done. The question is, "Is it just to use death as a mode of punishment for any crime?" The "R. Ex's" were very good. Mr. Farns.worth went away about 3 to go over to Mr; Casswells ordination at at Meridith tomorrow. Mr. Braybrook and I sit up tonight at Mr. _ Websters. An foolish woman died there this morning, aged 52. We were very sleepy. We went home in the morning about 5 and went to bed and slept till 9 o'clock. I went to the singing school this evening. There were not many there on account of the ordination tomorrow. Two or 3 new famil[ies] attended. We got along very well. There will be no school for 2 days now because tomorrow will be the ordination and a funeral here and Friday will be New Years Day. 
Thursday December 31, 1829. Weather some windy yet not very cold. I dont feel the effects of sitting up much today. Mr. Braybrook and I went up to Mrs. Perkins to see her and the boarders there who are Misses Hazeltine, Hall, Harris, Abbot. We had a very happy time in talking on religion. We staid about 2 hours. We then came home and studyed some. Most all the folks here have gone to the ordina.tion. Mr. Braybrook and I went over to Mr. Kelleys district this evening to attend a meeting. There is quite a revival there, it is about 2 miles below the village oná the left-hand Bristol road. There have been 7 born again there, I believe, 3 in one meeting. We expect to go again next Tuesday night if we can. I had 2 papers from home the other day. 
With this close of this day closes the year 1829 and with its termination, 0 that all my sins and sinful thoughts might close with it. This year I consider as a glorious year to me, as I trust, and to many, I hope. In this year I was careless, anxious and rejoicing. This has been a year of Jubilee to me, as I hope, and this a year when began to live to Christ. What reason have I to thank God for his goodness towards me in preserving me and keeping me to this year when, as I trust, I have found "peace in believing"? A few months ago and I was as careless and secure as anyone, but now can I rejoice 
98 
in the Lord that I ever saw this year. This is a year when I hope shall die to all that is evil and live to all that is good. It is important that we should now look over our books and accounts with the year 1829, see how we stand and see how we have spent our time because He is soon to bear an account of all our doings to heaven where they will be all registered and to be answered for when time shall be no longer. Millions during the last year have gone to their long home where they will have one eternal year either of happiness or of misery. And O Lord I thank thee that thou hast spared me to the present time and not cut me down as a cumberer of the ground. But the time draws near when I must lend the parting hand to 1829. The time has come. Farewell, my dying friend 1829, and welcome 1830!! 

