
CONSTITUTION(OF THE L. ADELPHI) 
Whereas the acquisition of useful knowledge and the cultivation of those faculties by which it is communicated to others are objects which claim the highest attention of youth; and whereas a combination of efforts with these views may be attended with mutual advantage: We the undersigned members of the Academical and Theological Institution for the attainments of these important objects associate ourselves together agreeing to be known by the name of the Literary Adelphi and to be governed by the following 
CONSITTIJTION 
Section 1 Admission of members, Discipline, Dis[s]rnission 
Art. 1. Those shall be admitted as members of this Soc. who are Members of the Acad. and Theo. Institution who possess a good moral character and manifest a laudible emulation and diligence in the pursuit of learning. 
Art. 2. The fee of admission shall be 25 cents, to be paid by all the active members within one week after their [nmes?]shall be sub.scribed to this Constitution, to be appropriated to the purchase of periodicals and other useful works for the benefit of the Soc. and to meet contingent expen[s]es. Provided, however, that such as are members of the N. Hampshire Association shall enjoy the privileges enjoyed by the Constitution of said Association. Each member of the Soc. shall received a certificate signed by the Pres. and Sec. certifying 
99 
that he is a regular member of the Soc. and entitled to all its privileges. 
Art 3. It shall be the duty of all the members of this Soc. to cultivate in themselves and mutually in each other a spirit of kind.ness, submission and fidelity, a deportment in all respects becoming the gentleman scholar and the Christian, and in short whatever may tend to increase their individual attachment to the common object for which this Soc. was formed. 
Art 4. Should any member of this Soc. so far depart from the path of duty as to be guilty of profanity or any other species of impiety or immorality or otherwise forfeit the character of a gentleman, or should he persist in disregarding the duties prescribed by this Constitution, he shall be admonished of his error by such as shall be acquainted with the fact and if he fail to give satisfaction and afterwards be guilty _of similar offences he may be expelled from the Society. 
Art 5. Any member in good standing in this Soc. may at his 
request receive an honorable dissmission writing signed by the Pres. & Sec.  which shall  be given  in  
Section 2  Officers and their Du ty  
Art  1. The officers  of this  Soc. shall  be  a Prime  President,  a  

President, a Vice Pres., a Corresponding and Recording Sec., a Treasurer, a Librarian, 3 Criticks, a Standing Committee consisting of 3, and an Auditor who shall be chosen monthly by ballot. 
Art. 2. The Principal of this Institution shall with his consent be Ex-officio Prime President. Wheneverr he shall think it expedient he may exercise the power of the Acting President. 
Art. 3. The Pres. and in his absence the Vice d[itt]o. shall with the provisions made in the prece[e]ding article, precede [preside] in all the meetings of the Soc. 
Art. 4. The Recording Sec. shall make and preserve a fair record of all the proceedings of the Soc., call the roll at the opening of the meeting and aided by the Pres., shall assign the exercises. 
Art. 5. The corresponding Sec. shall conduct the correspondence agreeable to the order of the Soc. 
Art. 6. The Treasurer shall receive and carefully preserve and faithfully appropriate all money put into his hands agreeably to the directions of the Soc. He shall present an audited report of receipts and expenditures at the close of the term for which he was elected. 
(00 
Art. 7. The Librarian shall have charge of the Library and shall faithfully dispense the priveleges to the members of the Soc. in conformity to the regulations which shall be given him for his directions in the same. 
Art. 8. The Criticks shall correct all written exercises exhibited in the Soc. and shall to the best of their ability with kindness and discretion make such remarks as occur to them in relation to the extemporaneous and other performances of the members. 
Section 3 Meetings and Exercises 
Art. 1. The exercises of the regular meetings shall be Reading, Declamation, Dissertations, Written and Ex[temporaneous] Disputes. 
Art. 2. The parts shall be assigned and repeated in the hearing of all the members present, one week at least before their perform.ance is required. 
Art. 3. The regular meetings of this Soc. shall be holden on Tuesday of each week at 4 o'clock P. M. during the summer term and at 1/2 past 6 during the other terms. 
Art. 4. Special meetings may be called by the Pres. whenever he shall deem it neccessary. 
Art. 5. A regular and punctual attendance is required of all members at the meetings of the Soc. Should any member be absent from any regular or special meeting or tardy in his attend[a]nce, he shall be called upon to render his excuse at the next meeting when he shall be present and, should his excuse be unsatisfactory, he shall pay a fine not exceeding 12 1/2 cts and, should he neglect to pay said fine, he shall be suspended and, if he still remain refractory, he shall be expelled from the Society. 
Art. 6. No member shall have the same exercise assigned him at 2 meetings in succession. It shall be the endeavour of the Pres. and Sec. that as equal a distribution of the duties and privileges of the Soc. shall be made among the members as possible. 
Art. 7. Should any member fail to perform a part assigned him and should he not give an excuse satisfactory to the Soc., he shall be fined 12 1/2 cts and, should he neglect to pay said fine, he shall receive a repritmand from the Pres. in presence of all the members. 
Art. 8. All questions discussed in Written or Extemporaneous Disputes shall be decided by a vote of the Soc. at the close of the discussion. 
LO\ 
Art 9. The Pres. and Vice do. shall at the close of the period during which they hold their respective offices, deliver each an original address to the Soc. 
Art. 10. There shall be annually delivered on the day of the 
annual Exhibition decided by a vote previously appointed  of the of the for t Institution, at Soc. an oration hat service.  such by a  an m hour ember  as of  shall the  be Soc.  
Section 4  Library &c.  

Art 1. The Library shall be opened on Wednesday of each week during the seasonal terms of the Institution from 12 till 1 o'clock, when the Librarian shall deliver and receive books agreeably to the provisions of this Constitution. 
Art. 2. Every volume containing less than 300 pages shall be returned within 2 weeks and every volume containing more than 300 pages shall be returned within 3 weeks after it is received. 
Art. 3. Should any oneá fail to return a book as specified in the preceeding article, he shall pay a fine of 6 ~ents and 2 cents for each succeeding day of its detention. 
Art. 4., No member shall be entitled to take out a book on the same [day] as which he has returned it. 
Art 5. The Librarian shall keep a catalogue of all the books committed to his care. He shall keep an accurate record of the time when each book is taken and returned by each individual who has the privilege of the Library. 
Art. 6. If any book shall be injured by being torn, by the doubling of any part of the leaf, by the stain of ink or any kind of grease or dirt or in any other way, the person so injuring shall pay for each offense a fine not less than 6 cents nor more than the value of the book so injured at the discretion of the Librarian aided by the Standing Committee, to whom appeal may in any such case be made either by the Librarian or the individual to whom the fine may be adjudged. 
Art. 7. No person shall lend a book to another not a member of this Soc. on the penalty of a fine of 25 cents for each offence. 
Art 8. If any book shall be destroyed or lost, the individual to whom it stands charged on the book of the Librarian shall replace it by another of the same kind or shall pay a fine not exceeding the value of said book. 
Section 5 Decorum 
Art. 1. All communications in the Soc. shall be introduced by an address to the President. 
Art. 2. No member may whisper or speak loud to another, leave his seat or the hall during the session of the Soc. without first obtain.ing leave of the Pres. 
Art. 3. No one shall address the chair while another is speaking, nor in any other way interupt him while making a communication or 
performing a regular exercise. Art 4. Every species of levity, unnecessary shall be carefully avoided by the members occupied by the regular and special meetings.  noise aduring  nd disorder the  season  
Section 6  

Specialities 
Art. 1. Any amendment of this Constitution may be made at a regular meeting, if having been proposed in writing at least one week before such alteration is adopted provided, however, that no amendment be made without the approbation of the Prime President. 
Art. 2. The Prof., Trustees, and overseers of the Institution shall be ex-officio Honorary Members of this Soc. And other Gentlemen who shall be recommended as friends and patrons of Literature and for their private and publick virtues may be elected as honorary members. 
Art. 3. Honorary members may at their option have all the privileges of active members. 
Art. 4. The vote of 7 /8ths of all the members of the Soc. connected with this Institution shall be necessary to the expulsion of a member. Finis. 
ro3 
[Diarium from July 5 1830 to January 17, 1832] 
New Hampton Tuesday July S, 1830. Quite warm and pleasant day! Arose at the usual time which is 6now. Feel some tired from yesterday's labor. Rescited as usual to Prof. in Cicero, in which we now get about 8 Sect. A part of our Class have withdrawn because they cannot keep up with us. Some men are smo[o]thing the common before the "Brick Edifice" by blasting rocks &c. I think this place would look much better if more of the stones and other rubbish were cleared away. About 10 of the rooms in the "B[rick] Building" are occupied, and I have heard that $500. were subscribed by clergymen only at the last "Baptist Convention" for finishing the same. I went to the village to meeting tonight, and but few males attended. Very good meeting. 
Wednesday July 7, 1830. It is quite warm today. I received a paper from home last night in which was a billet informing me that Aunt Sally Libbey had been baptized by Mr. Williams of Concord and requesting me to write soon, which I shall endeavour to do if I can get time. R Exs. quite good by 
S. F.[?] Prof. made some remarks on their seperation and requested them to unite again. He likewise remarked some concerning the approaching Examination and Exhibition. 
Thursday July 8, 1830. Weather quite warm and pleasant. Is as much as I can do to get my Cicero lesson now. 
Friday July 9, 1830. Quite pleasant [but] a heavy rain this afternoon which will raise the hopes of the farmer again. I reviewed a part of the Manilian Law in Cicero to recite tomorrow. Went to the meeting this evening at the Academy. Prof. was in. John Rand has gone to Boston on some buslness. 
Saturday July 10, 1830. It is very pleasant and warm --rescited in review today. Went a fishing this afternoon and caught 92 [?] trouts from the brook at the village. It is an exellent place for trouts. Went to the Singing Soc. but [few?] attended, quite a good sing. I feel some tired from my day's work. I have not got my lesson for Monday. 
Sunday July 11, 1830. Very warm and clear weather. Went to the Village School house at 9 o'clock where a few of the members of the Berean Soc. met. We had a very good meeting. Mr. Evans preached this forenoon on the neccessity of repentance. I liked him very well. The meeting house was very well filled. I didnt enjoy myself very well. I am so far from the place that I ought to be in that I cannot feel any love to God as I formerly did. I did not go to meeting this evening. I have got a very bad cold some way but I do not how. Wrote a letter home today. 
Monday July 12, 1830. Weather very warm. I have so much lesson to get now that I cannot get it well. Went to the Sunday School prayer meeting. But few attended. Mr. Evans and Prof. were present and spoke very well. 
Tuesday July 13, 1830. It is quite pleasant today but we had a fine shower this afternoon. Went to the L. Adelphi at 4 o'clock. I had no exercise to perform. 
Wednesday July 14, 1830. Fine weather and a fine shower too this afternoon. The R. Ex's were not very well attended this afternoon. Both of the debates were not performed because a part of those appointed on them were absent. Gould and myself are appointed to write a Greek Dialogue. Our subject is the Master and Slave. I think we shall have a very good Exhibition this year. Alvares has gone to Concord today and Eaton with him. 
Thursday July 15,1830. Very warm and uncomfortable. I stud[y]ed my lesson at home. 
Friday July 16, 1830. It is about as warm as it has been this year. I wrote a part of my Dialogue this afternoon. Went down to the river; the water is very warm--has risen 2 or feet on account of dam. We had a very good meetting this evening. Mr. Evans and Prof. attended. Alvares has got back from Concord. I have not reviewed any of my lesson for tomorrow. Our lessons are so long and hard that I cannot nor do I much care whether get them well or not. I have got most discouraged about the Latin. I dont think I shall bear a very good examination. I find it is no use for a scholar to be carryed along by the class without getting his lessons. It is better for 
iOS' 
him to get short ones and get them well. A large part of our class have been over all the Cicero before so that they can read it much better than those who have not read it. I want to go on my own legs in this respect or not at all. Two or 3 have already given up getting such lessons. We shall get through in about a fortnight. 
Saturday July 17, 1830. It is extremely warm today, I should [think] as warm as it has been before this year,We rescited in review this morning. I went into the water this forenoon. 
There was a church meeting this afternoon which I heard was a very interesting one. Two young Ladies, Misses Nichols and Goodhue, and Mr. Eaton related their experience and were voted to be received by the church. They are expected to be baptised tomorrow. Went to the Singing Soc. and but few members attended. It is so warm now that it is lazy work to study, or sleepy at least. I went down to the village tonight to see if I had a [package? letter?] there but found none. I am in hopes to have one soon. Tomorrow the meeting is here and I hope it may be a good meeting to me for I think there's need of it. I am so light and prayerless that I seem to be worse than I ever was. This is wholly on account of duty I have no doubt. I dont pray enough and read and meditate upon the Bible. When these are neglect[ ed] then one begins to lose his peace of mind and sinks to a worldliness. I think I have reason to mourn my slug[g]ishness. 
Sunday July 18, 1830. Uncommonly warm and uncomfortable. Went up to the Berean Soc. at 9 o'clock and had as good meeting as usual. Mr. Evans preached in his usual style. At noon Misses Nichols and Goodhue were baptised. The exercises at the waterside were very appropriate and affecting. Prof. spoke very spiritedly and seemed to [be] quite stirred up. It is truly pleasant to see such young persons as these coming out from the world, owning their saviour before men. What can more testify their love for God than this? And what is more lovely in a youth than religion? Before we went to the waterside Prof. took Mr. Ingalls, Eaton and myself into the Lecture Hall and told us that he wished we three to be baptised at once. Mr. Eaton, he said, wished not to be baptised till 2 or 3 weeks hence if he thought there was any prospect of our coming forward. He at last concluded to wait, and the Prof. wished us to think upon it prayerfully and to make up our minds soon if we could. Although I have thought much upon this subject, yet I have not fully made up my mind. There [are] some things which appear dark to me and incomprehensible. One is why Christians, one denomination, should be debar[r]ed from partaking the Lord's Supper with those of another if they all profess to have met with a change of heart. I dont know as I have any reason to think that the disciples of Christ could only partake of the Supper and that if there had been any there who were followers of him and had not been baptised [that] they would have been forbidden to sit with them. Yet I may be mistaken and perhaps have a wrong [idea?] of the matter which, if I have, I hope will be corrected. I have so many minds about the subject that I hardly know what to conclude about it. I hope when I am baptised and joined to a church it will be the right one although I would choose to be a Christian of no denomination for I do not like to be on any side. It seems that we are all to be united in heaven and why not on earth and not be so divided, for there, there will be no Baptists, no Congregationalists no Methodists nor any other orders but only those who have been washed and redeemed by the blood of the Saint. It is lamentable that those who call themselves the worshipers of the same God should be so disunited and so as not to go to each other's meeting in some cases. These things seem to be inconsistent with the character of the followers [of] Christ and I think it to be better if they would be more united. 
Monday July 19, 1830. It is remarkably warm and we have to almost strip to keep ourselves comfortable. The weather is pretty good for some corn now. I have seen some spindled out. I went 9own into the water today. I don't, as I ought to, go in so often for I think it not [?] healthy. Bathing is not [only]LY?] healthful but also amusing when used at proper times for in swiming is exercise and a cleansing of the body. Morning unquestionably [is] the best time for it, when the body is cool and not in a state of great perspiration. But yet other times are proper except in the heat of the day which is not a favourable time. We have to go about a mile and half to the water which affords us all the exercise which is necessary before and after going into the water. I now get 8 sec[tions] in áCicero which I confess I do not get well enough. It is not of much use to half-get a lesson unless we wholly get it for it is not much else than throwing [away] labor. But I must submit to the times. 
Tuesday July 20, 1830. Quite warm although not so much so, I think, as yesterday. I saw in a newspaper the other day that Captain Hannaford was promoted to Major. I did not go up to school yester-day because I had not my lesson well. I went up to the L. A. We all declaimed according to the vote of last meeting. Alvares bought a new album for the Soc. worth $2.00 and it was accepted. We have written the English of our dialogue which is to be spoken at Exhibition. The subject is A Master and His Slave. I expect the Greek will be very hard to be written since there are no rules of making Greek. We had a mess of new potatoes a day or 2 ago but they were not very good, being so young. New students continue to come slowly. Two came today from Boston and wished to be boarded here, but Major did not want more. 
10T 
Wednesday July 21, 1830. Extremely warm now. I heard that I had a bundle at the village and went and got it this afternoon. I had to pay 25 cts. for bringing it (only a pair of linen pantaloon), which I think too much; although I did not value it , yet I thought it rather crowding. I suppose 
that stage delivery have a part of what they can get or at least what they can get over a fair price for carrying bundles and so we have to pay a high price for transportation. 
Thursday July 22, 1830. Very warm, I think as [warm as] yesterday. It is so warm that it is difficult to study. We shall get though Cicero next week. 
Friday July 23, 1830. It not so warm as yesterday. Quite comfortable now. Major cut down some hay yesterday and we helped him get it in tonight! We had a very spirited meeting this evening and it held till 10 o'clock. Prof. was quite engaged. Last night Mr. Ingalls, Eaton and myself went up to the Profs. and talked with him on the subject of Baptism till 11. He wishes to have us all come forward together and be baptised soon. I dont know hardly what to do. I am so far from God and all that is good that I cannot make my mind what to do. I think I am more established than I was as to what is the right way. 
Saturday July 24, 1830. Quite warm. We rescited in review as usual. We went down to the river at 8 o'clock and had a good swim. The water is 2 or 3 ft. higher than before owing to the rain. I went up to the Soc. (Singing) and had a very good sing. Some of the village ladies were up. We sang till dark because they could not go home in the shower [which] came over at the time. It thundered, lightninged some. I think farmers will feel grateful for all the rain and fine growing weather this year. I never knew a season, I think, when we have in so regular succession sunshine and foul weather. It is generally admitted that ácrops will be very plentiful this year if nothing prevents more than is now foreseen. Such blessings as these should surely fill us with gratitude to our Maker who thus orders all things that they may work together for our good. Humiliating thought indeed that 
such  a Being through  "infinite  condescension"  should  deign  to notice  us  
even  so much  as we do the  meanest  creature  of creation!  The dispar ity  
between  us  and  Him is indeed  much  greater  than  between  us  and  the  
smallest  of his works.  

Sunday July 25, 1830. Quite fair weather this morning till about 11 o'clock and then very rainy all day. We had a good meeting in the Berean Soc. this morning. There were not many to meeting today probably because it was not understood that there would be any. 
108 
No particular person preached but all spoke and prayed as they chose. The meeting was very interesting, much more so I think than any I have attended this term. Prof. was very much engaged and spoke very affectingly. Two or 3 of the young ladies from the other Institution were quite affected and I hope they may be hopefully convicted and converted. I attended the evening meeting which was very well attended considering the weather. I liked it much. I think I felt the value of the immortal souls around if ever I did in the world and wished they might turn to God and live. This evening for the first time I talked with Dickey on the subject of religion and began to pray in our room and I hope I may be enabled to follow up and [do?] every duty which I see in the way for me. 
Monday July 26, 1.830. Quite rainy all day and the brook close by is risen considerably. The river has risen 6 or 8 ft. We get along very well now in Cicero. I am going to send down home a trunk full of clothes soon. 
Tuesday July 27, 1830. Rainy all day. Wet feet are all in fashion now and tight shoes in great demand. We keep in the house now and hardly dare to peep out. 
Wednesday July 28, 1830. Rainy as before. I did not go to school this morning but wrote Greek for Exhibition. Dickey and I went down to see the new dam. The water pours over nobly There has been about 6 ft. of of water running over at once, and the dam is very long too so that there must be an [immense?] body of water running now. It has fell 2 ft. already. We all declaimed in our Soc. L. A. last night. We talk some of having an Exhibition of our Soc. 
Thursday July 29, 1830. The weather has not been so rainy today as usual but still there is a kind of mist falling all the time and we have not seen the sun since Saturday. We have had a very long rain and I should conclude that it was about over, and has swollen the streams considerable. 
Friday July 30, 1830. It has been more pleasant today than for some time past. The sun shone some. I wrote upon my Greek Dialogue this afternoon, We expect to hand it in to be examined Monday. It is a great job. We had a good meeting this eve. 
Saturday July 31, 1820. Pleasant today. I did not go in to school this morn but was at work on my Dialogue. We went into the water this afternoon.It was cold and high so that it was not very pleasant. I went to the Singing Soc., and but an hour, and then Major Dickey and I went a fishing over to Kelley's Pond. It was a fine evening and we had a pleasant time. I caught 
109 
10 poats [pouts], Dickey 6, and Major none. We got home at 12 o'clock and felt very stiff. This is the last day of another month and how have I spent [it]? I fear not so acceptable to God as is desirable. I am very dead and negligent in the great cause of Christ. May God grant that I may live the 
next [year?]  more acceptable  to him.  
Sunday August 1, 1830. It has been overcast and had the appearance rain all day. I went to the village at 9 o'clock but so few assembled attend the Berean Soc. that we did not have any. Mr. Evans preached  of to as  

usual. I liked very much. I attended at the Chapel in the evening. I have thought much about Baptism and I think I am now more fully determined than I ever have been. I think I shall soon be baptised. 
Monday August 2, 1830. Very warm all day. Prof. requested the Berean Soc. to meet this morning, last night, and they accordingly met. He exhorted us to faithfulness and prayerfulness in the cause of Christ and divided the Soc. in to 3 divisions to hold 3 prayer meetings in 3 different Halls a 1/2 hour before school time, which was readily agreed to by the Soc. Mr. Richards started for home this morning in stage, and I sent a trunk of cloth[e]s home too, and a letter to Hermon Rolfe of Concord at Col. Wm. Kents. Car:ryed my dialogue to Prof. to be corrected and he gave it to Mr. Farnam. 
Tuesday August 3, 1830. Quite pleasant and comfortable weather. We get a lesson in the Bucol[l]ics and Greek Reader now. Went to Literary Adelphi and declaimed as usual. The Soc. fined certain members for tardiness and absence 60 cts. 
Wednesday August 4, 1830. Quite pleasant and rather cooler than usual. It feels some like September weather now. I did not go to the Rhetorical Exs. this afternoon. 
Thursday August 5, 1830. It is very comfortable. We arose this morning at 1/2 past 5 and took a walk. I like it much. I received my dialogue this morning and have now nothing to do but to commit it, which is some work. 
Friday August 6, 1830. Fine weather. We arose at 5 and took a walk. Feel just as well for it. We have had prayer meetings every morning this week. Prof. appointed a meeting on Wedy. for those who have no hope and some attended. We had very good meeting [in the] evening. Prof. was in and all appeared to be solemn. Mr. Alvares thinks he has obtained a hope and invited his fellow students to come and taste of the religion of Christ. Oh! I hope he is not deceived, but he may make a bright and hopeful Christian. 
110 
It was unexpected to me and I think to many. Christians appeared to [be] somewhat stirred up tonight. I hope this is but a happy prelude of what we shall see in this place. 
Saturday August 7, 1830. Very fine weather today. We arose at 5 and went and took a walk. I did not go up to school today but studied my peice. We went down to the river after dinner, and as soon as we came back I went to the church meeting. After some had related their exercises, I related my experience in a few words and a Mrs. Gordon of the village likewise, and we were both received as candi-dates for admission. What an important step have I taken! I some-times feel that I have been med[d]ling with things too holy and sacred for me and that I am unworthy to be united with the Church of Christ. 
Oh I hope [I] shall realize the great responsibility resting upon me to devote myself wholly to God. He is worthy of all our feeble exertions in his cause although we are unworthy to labor in it. I should consider prayerfully I am aware what I am doing and I hope I may. 
Sunday August 8,1830. It rained in the morning some and then cleared off warm. I went to the Berean Soc. as usual and had a good meeting. In the 
A.M. Mr. Evans preached and in the P.M., because he had to attend the funeral of Capt. Lane who died yesterday, Mr. Joseph Smith took his place in the pulpit and preached very well. In the afternoon there were not so many as in the forenoon at meeting because some went to the funeral. 
We had a very heavy shower this P. M. which did the ground and veg[i]tables much good. I went to the village to meeting in the evening and had a very interesting one; more so I think than I have had for some time. Mr. Evans wished for those students present who expected to leave New Hampton to carry on the meeting. I attempted to speak and I never spoke so easy and felt for impenitent sinners more than I did tonight. I think if I ever really pitied them it was then. Oh that we might [see?] some other impenitent sinner brought to repentance! 
We called in to Mr. Evans a few minutes and sung some hymns and then went home. I really felt unpleasant tonight to think of leaving New Hampton at the end of this term; it seems as though I could not, but yet there must be some seperation. It was here that I hope I found the blessedness that there is in religion. Here I hope to be baptised and why should I not feel reluctant to leave this place? I shall ever have to regret that I have abused these priveleges so. I have to do that in a few days that I ought to have for a number of months past. But more another time. 
Monday August 9, 1830. Quite comfortable, not very cold nor warm. I went up to school unprepared and found that only one of the class was 
111 
prepared. I find my Greek very hard to commit. I went to prayer meeting this morning, which we continue yet. I went to a social prayer meeting at Deacon Gordon's Saturday Evening. It was quite good. I have not had time to talk with Mr. Alvares yet on the subject of religion; but he related his experience Saturday evening at Dea[con] Gordons and I thought it very good and much better than I could tell. I hope he has obtained true religion and is not deceived. He appears quite solemn and different from what he used to be. I attend[ed] a special meeting of the LA. Soc. in the Lecture Hall this morning and we voted to have our next meeting ( the last) this afternoon on account of the meeting tomorrow. And according[ly] we met, declaimed and chose officers for next term. We chose Worth and Fellows for delegates to attend [the] New Hampshire Association in Concord. I attended the Sunday School Concert this evening. Mr. Evans was up&c. 
Tuesday August 10, 1830. Quite warm and pleasant. I spend most of my time now in commiting [my] piece for Exhibition, but get a Greek lesson. I went to the village at 5 o'clock to the meeting which was appointed there Sunday. Mr. Norris, a Methodist minister, preached and I liked him quite well. Mr. Ingalls' father and 5 or 6 other relatives have come up to the Exhibition, having been deceived concerning the time when it was. 
Wednesday August 11, 1830. Quite comfortable weather, not very warm. The students assembled this afternoon as usual for the purpose of declamation. Most of the students had their pieces prepared. Mr. Gould and myself read ours because not commited. 
Thursday August 12, 1830. Quite pleasant weather. We had a prayer meeting at Mr. Perkins last evening, and another at the Mansion House tonight. I feel very unwilling to leave this [place?] and I feel more so, I think, as the time draws near. I have been at a number of places to schools like this but never was I endeared to any as to this. 
Friday August 13, 1830. It is very comfortable weather now. We had a very good meeting this evening. Mr. James Haselton is up. Cutter is going home tomorrow. 
Saturday August 14, 1830. Clear and pleasant. Yesterday and today I studied some in Cicero. The students generally spoke their peices today. I did not because Gould did not come down. 
A stage load of Boston folks have come to town. Went to a meeting at the village; liked it quite well. I want to speak for my passage by stage next Friday but so many have applied that I am not certain as I can go. 
Sunday August 15, 1830. Weather looked much like rain in the forenoon and it rained quite fast about 3 o'clock and so continued. I attended the meeting of the Church this morning. Doct. Sharp was present. Mr. Evans preached in the forenoon very well. Eaton, Mrs. Gordon and myself were baptised. This has been an important day with me and one which I have no doubt will be remembered to all eternity by me. I did not enjoy myself very well the first half of the day as the last. I have many fears least I have been doing a deed which I ought not to have done. But Oh! I hope not. I hope the deed is acceptable to God and that He approves of my vows. I have now professed openly before men and angels that I am on the Lords side. And shall I ever live as though these vows were not upon me? Oh! I fear I shall. I have reason to fear and to lament that worldly things will_ have so bewitching [a] tend[a]ncy as to draw my mind from God and his commands. This world is, I confess, in my thoughts too much, worldly cares and vanities draw me from religion which should be my highest aim to cultivate pure and undefiled before God. It is my prayer, I think, that I may not live unworthy of the profession which I have made. Doct. Sharp preached in the afternoon admirably. I think I never heard a man preach better. After meeting we attended to the solemn ordinance of the Lord's supper. We had quite an interesting meeting in the evening although but few attended on account of rain. 
Monday August 16, 1830. Arose at 5 o'clock and took a walk. Pleasant day. Gould and I spoke our dialogue this morning. Prof. made arrangements where the students should sit examination. We shall be examined tomorrow afternoon. I have been brushing up mystudies a little today for tomorrow. I attended the Singing Soc. at 5 and had a very good sing. Miss Gaston was present. Folks come to the Ex[hibition] fast now. A number came tonight. 
Tuesday August 17, 1830. Weather fine and pleasant. We arose in good season this morning. We are to be examined this afternoon in the "Classical Department." I dont think so much of Examination now as Exhibition. I dont think there will be many in to hear us this P. M. Went into prayers at 8 o'clock. Prof. Ripley from Newton Ins[titute] and Mr. Williams of Concord were present. At one o'clock the Clas. Dept. took their places for Ex[amination]. We all got along not more than middling well, I thought. Not many spectators. Mr. Clark was there, Isaac Hill &c. I got along rather poorly in Cicero. It was almost impossible for us to bear a very good Ex[amination] in this book for we went through in great haste and had not time to review. 
113 
I am now done with New Hampton, all but delivering the Greek Dialogue and that I dread. "Tis almost done, Tis almost o'er." 
Wednesday August 18, 1830. A very pleasant and warm day. Went to the 
Village to hear the ladies ex[amination]. I rode down and back with Lord. I 
never witnessed so interesting an Ex[aniination] before. The young ladies 
were all dressed in white with green belts. The Ex. began with English 
Grammar and then followed Arithmetic, Geo-graphy, Philosophy, 
Chemistry, Geometry, and Intellectual Philo-sophy, together with Latin and 
French. The Hall was hung with maps and paintings by the students, which 
made a fine appearance. It was evident that this Ex[amination] was 
conducted on a different plan from what ours was. There was no hesitation 
in any of their answers but they were given with promptness and 
sometimes to the length of 
half a page. I think if they had missed some, they would have freed 
themselves more from suspicion of having places assigned for Ex. But still I 
have nothing to say against their way 
of Ex., for it cannot be expected that young ladies would attempt to go 
through a thorough Ex. unless well prepared. They did honor to themselves á and to Instructresses. I think, in an institution of this kind, I never 
witnessed half so interesting a performance. In the afternoon we all 
attended the Ex. of the "Literary Department." 
I think it was not less interesting than the ladies although the 
questions were not answered generally so promptly. The apparatus was 
used in illustrating the questions in Chemistry and Philosophy. Astronomy 
was omitted for want of time. The Hall was filled with spectators and 
literary men. The Examination has been much more satisfactory, I think, 
than last year. Our anxiety now is over only for tomorrow's Exercise, which 
I somewhat dread. I fear my peice will not be well committed and if not 
our appearance will be bad. 
I attended meeting at the village in the academy. Two or 3 ministers 
were present and one preached a very good sermon. I was very sleepy. 
Thursday August 19, 1830. I arose in pretty good season this morn-ing 
and brushed up a little for Exhibition. I shall wear white pantaloons and a 
blue coat. We met at 8 o'clock at the Chapel and formed a procession with 
good music. We then marched to the meeting house and, opening to the 
right and left, let the Trustees, Overseers, Instruct[e]rs and other 
Gentlemen pass in to seats fixed upon the stage. After the students were 
all in, I went into the academy and spoke my peice several times so as to 
get it familiar. 
I sent 2 boxes of books etc. down by stage this morning.The small 
boys decla[i]med first and did well, much better than last year. After the 

11tr 
boys, came the young men with selected peices. They did well I thought. After the selected peices we had our intermission of 20 minutes and then returned to hear the Originals. Burbank delivered the Salutatory in Latin. If he had delivered it in better style and more spirited, it would have appeared better. The peices wereall very good, but of the addresses the one before the L. Adelphi Soc. by John Ingalls I think was best. 
I was some moved on going before so many to speak but not so much as I expected. I made no mistake but went through with it very well. We had very good music during the day. Doct. Sharp recommended exercise to the students very highly. I have seen many of the old students today. I feel great reluctance on leaving the place. Something seems to draw me back but parting must take place. There appears to be an attachment between students which is not in scarcely any other situation. I shall go in the stage tomorrow. Dickey is going to walk down. 
Parting 
"When forced to part from those we love, Though sure to meet tomorrow, We yet a kind of anguish prove And feel a touch of sorrow. But Oh! What words can paint the fears When from those friends we sever, Perhaps to part for months --for years Perhaps to part forever!" 
Friday August 20, 1830. A very fine and warm day. Went to the village this morning with the Major. Two stages are going down today, one at 9 o'clock and another at 12. I shall go at 9. Dr. Sharp is going and Prof. Ripley. After we had started we had a fine time singing. We rode very slowly all the way from New Hampton to Concord on account of our load. We had 15 passengers and baggage. We walked up all the bad hills. We made [no?] long stop till we came to Sanbornton Bridge where we took dinner. Before we arrived at the "Bridge," the transient bolt broke, but we discovered it before any damage took place. After stoping for dinner and mending the bolt we started and proceeded very well till within 8 or 10 miles from Concord when the bolt broke again. We all got out and having a spare one we soon were ready to go on again. After all these stops we arrived in Concord at about 5 o'clock. The place looks the same as ever. Both stage loads of us put up at Hutchin's besides 2 or 3 Hanover stages with students, which filled the house up pretty well. I slept with Hutchinson. We calculate to go into the State House in the morning. 

Concord Saturday August 21, 1830. Fine warm day. I arose this morning at 3 o'clock because I could not sleep. I found a number up. Some going in the Stages at 4. At 5 o'clock we went into the State House with a number of the ladies who came down yesterday. At 7 o'clock we started on the stage again, which was so loaded that I had to leave my baggage. Arrived safe at home at 1/2 past 9 o'clock, and found all folks alive and well. I was so sleepy that I had to lay down and take a nap. I have nothing very remarkable to note concerning the affairs here at home. Things go on about the same old way as they used to do. 
Chichester Sunday August 22, 1830. It is a very fine day. I did not go to meeting today on account of yesterday's gant [jaunt?]. Mr. Stickney preaches at the meeting house half of the time and a Mr. Peabody the other half, so that we have preaching here now all the time. Mr. Peabody is a Congregationalist and Mr. Stickney a Freewill Baptist. The state of religion very lamentable here now. Professors are very stupid and "down by the cold streams of Babylon." Some of our folks went to meeting. It is very desirable to have a reformation in this place. 
Monday August 23, 1830. Very comfortable weather now. Father is now building a dye house at the mill. I did not do much today, only looked about. A lawyer by the name Whittle from [?] has lately come into the place. He does not do much. Doct. Shute has moved into the little house formerly built for clothiers. He is from Weare, I think. Neither of them will get a living because they have not bus'iness enough. Hopkinson trades yet principally in rum. There is a drunken set around him almost all the time, which I think is very disgraceful to him because he sells them rum and appears to uphold them. The "Temperance Soc." has done very well so far. About 130 members have joined. Trip to St. John['s] Tuesday. 
August 24, 1830. Rain in the A.M. and very rainy in the P.M. and evening. Did not do much. I have concluded not to go till next week to Waterville when father will go with me to St. Johns to see his father. He has not seen him for over 20 years. I am prepared to go now. Father settles with his creditors very slowly. 
Wednesday August 25, 1830. Moderate weather now. Masons have come to set the kettles in the dye house. The shower yesterday was very severe in Pittsfield, as I have heard. I do not do enough now to be worth noting. Crane went to Dover with a load of aats and got 2/f[s?] a bushel. Uncle Smarts folks are well. Old Mrs. Sargant (Aaron's mother) died this week with the cholerea morbus. Quite a number of folks are sick now in town of the same disorder. Apples and other fruits are quite plenty this year in this region. Crops in general are very good. The season has been particularly good for grain. 
Thursday August 26, 1830. Quite moderate now. I did not do much today and nothing worth noting. 
Friday August 27, 1830. Weather same as yesterday. I am quite weary of travelling about and doing nothing. We think of going to Boston next Wednesday. 
Saturday August 28, 1830. It is very comfortable weather now, although it has been quite windy for 3 or 4 days. Went to Graad-father's today, found them very well. 
Sunday August 29, 1830. Quite pleasant and comfortable weather. I went to meeting and heard Mr. Peabody. He is not a great preacher although not bad. Not many folks attended, because many attended the funeral of Mr. Jona. Perkins, the father of Jacob Perkins, who hung himself on Friday morning behind David W. Carpenter's house when he was on a visit. He has been for some time insane and has attempted to hang himself before. 
Monday August 30, 1830. Weather very fine and warm. Have been packing up today. I dont like very well to leave Father, Mother and Sister for so long a time but must, when it is for the best. 
Concord Tuesday August 31, 1830. The weather is very warm. Got already to go to Concord this afternoon. Father will not go till tomorrow morn-ing. I bid all my folks goodbye and started for Concord with Crane. It is quite warm. I found it quite uncomfortable. [We] went to Hutchin's and put our names on the stage book and went to Mr. Chase's to stay tonight about a mile from town. I found them all well and in a very snug little house on the Londonderry turnpike. Mr. Chase does not like his situation very well because he cannot get pay for his work handily. He has a very good little water wheel (Breast, 10 ft in diameter). The stage will be along about 7 o'clock. Caleb Davis was carried to jail the other day for debt. One of the Knapps has been here sentenced [to] be hung for the murder of Mr. White of Salem. The others will have their trial in Nov. Went to bed in very good season. 
11T 
On road between Concord and Boston Wednesday September 1, 1830. I arose quite early this morning and found it fair weather. Father arrived in a short time with Mr. Tenney. We started in the stage about 7. I rode on top and had a very pleasant prospect of the surrounding country. I found the road remarkably good from Concord to Hooksett and in fact to Boston generally. We made no stop till we changed horses in Chester, I think. We had to pass quite a length of road through the woods in Chester and Manchester where the turnpike is not much settled on because it is a new road. We passed Manabesic Pond in Manchester, a very fine pond. The woods through which we have generally passed are cheifly hard wood such as oak and maple which make excellent wood for house use. I found that apples and other kinds of fruit was very plenty all the way and some trees were pro[p]ped and some broke down. Corn was some injured by the last wind. 
We took dinner at Lowell. It is the finest little bus[s]iness town I was.ever in. It is filled with factories. The place has increased wonderfully within a few years and is probably the largest manu-factoring establishment in the U.S. It is said that the companies will build 30 more . [factories?] soon. There are between 30 and 40 finished, I think. The rest of the rout[e] was not very agreeable, the country not being very much settled. We came in sight of Middlesex Canal 2 or 3 times and crossed it once. Corn is much beat down by the last wind. The country very romantic in many places. We passed through Medford a little before 5 o'clock. A very pretty little town. Arrived in Boston about 5 o'clock and was almost stunned with the rattling of carriages on the pavements. We stopped at No. 9 Elm Street. 
á Went to Long Wharf and found a vessel for Eastport and another for Augusta, Me. I think I shall go with Father in the Eastport vessel on Saturday. She is a fine brig, the Splendid, Capt Wm. Stackford. Feel tired enough to go to bed and think I shall sleep. Bought a pr. of walking shoes for 9/6 at Faxon's. 
Boston Thursday September 2, 1830. Weather very fine and cool with a southerly wind. Arose quite earley. Took a travel after breakfast over to the iron works on the Mill Dam. Very fine works, and much more extensive than I ever saw before. They manufacture all the scrap iron in bars by means of a 
trip-hammer. Warm work for some. From the Iron Works we passed over into Cambridge (I think the town was) to see the Glass Works but they would not admit any one so we lost all our trouble for nothing. From this place we went to Charlestown and took a look of the navy yard. It is the greatest curiosity that I have seen in Boston. Three large ships are now on the stocks, the largest of which will carry 125 guns. The dry dock which 
they are now building is a great unde~i~king and em 1 hands. It will take a year from this tim to f L8h . p oys_ a great many around the yard which is very large an~ eve´s,Lmillgf!1£Ebda.iict~fuvtfihl 
greatest order. 
Three ships, the Independence, Columbus and Constitution, are dismasted and waiting to be repaired in the dock when finished. They are kept in fine order and look very clean. The yard appears to [be] well supplied with everything for defence and one of the workmen told me there was timber enough in the yard to build a dozen 74's. Some of the anchors weigh over 4 tons. After looking around as much as we wished, we returned to Boston. I did not sleep much last night on account of the noise. I am very tired of running about today although well paid for my pains in seeing some of the wonderful works of art. I think it is worth anyones while and money to go and see them. 
Friday September 3, 1830. Weather clear with a southerly wind, cool. After breakfast we began another tour to South Boston to see the place and the Glass Houses. We could get no permission to see the Glass Works and so we traveled on to the end of Dorchester Pt. (I think it is called) and got ferried across to the castle. The fortifica-tions here are very strong. The wall is from 30 to 20 ft. in height, I should think, and about the same thickness, built of brick with grass on the top. The form is something like this 
--DRAWING HERE-.
and mounts an hundred guns although the most of them are now dismounted. Three companys of 50 each are stationed here. The place is kept in great order. One of the soldiers told me they intended to build it over next year with stone. After satisfying our curio[u]sity we returned to Boston tired and hungry. We board at a very respectable cellar near the new stone market. Spent the remainder of the day in strolling about town and seeing what was going on. 
I swaped my large seal for a smaller one. Went to the museum the other evening and was highly entertained. Went to bed but did not sleep much for the rattling ofwaggons on the pavements. 
Saturday September 4, 1830. Clear and windy. Very cool air. Wind appears not to be favourable for our intended trip to Eastport. Went over to Charlestown to see Joshua Seavey who tends the draw of the bridge and took dinner with him. Went up to see the monument on Bunker Hill. It is a very fine undertaking so far and is about 40 ft. high. It is of large hewn stones and has a spiral staircase to go to the top. Returned to town about 
119 
noon and Capt. Shackford thought he should not start till tomorrow on account of wind. We had another afternoon to travel the town and see all that's going on. Saw George Whitney yesterday and had a long talk with him. He is tending store for his father. Saw Gould likewise. He is going to start for Waterville tomorrow. 
The market at Boston is now very full of all kinds of fruit and vegitables which are sold very cheap. Apples we saw sold for 9d pr. bush[ el. Went aboard the brig and slept tonight. Capt. Shackford, I think, is a very fine man and experienced seaman. I think I never was in a place where the people were so civil and obliging as Boston. I have not been in the least misused by anyone since my stay here, which is remarkable. I think the city must be managed by excelent laws. I saw many fine buildings here which are worthy to be noted, viz. the State House on the highest land in Boston and can be seen at great distance, the U.S. branch bank, Newstone market and some other smaller buildings. I think we shall start tomorrow now. 
Sunday September 5, 1s/o. It is very pleasant day and the wind nearly fair for us but we had to wait so long for passengers that we had to wait till the afternoon for another ebb tide. Staid aboard the vessel all the forenoon. Got under way about 1 o'clock. After we had got some ways we found that one of the passengers was left, but he came aboard in short time in a small boat. We have a fine breeze and plough along finely. Passed "Nicks Mate" about 3. Our vessel, being loaded light, tossed nicely upon the water when there came a heavy swell. I am not sick any. We have fine accomadations in the vessel and as good a table is set as at most of the taverns. The Cabin is made wholly of Birds Eye Maple and Mahogany which make rich work. The State House of Boston was the last building of the place which was percept[i]ble. We had but a faint glim[p]se of Salem and Gloucester as we passed along the coast. At about dark I "turned in" and felt a little "squ[e]amish" but got over it after a while. Quite a number of passengers are sick. Father was some sick tonight. We have between 12 to 15 on board as passengers. 
At Sea Monday September 6,1830. Arose about sunrise. The sun look[ed] beautif[f]uly at sunrise, rising from the ocean apparently. We have yet a fine wind and get along very fast. Capt. said we went 10 knots an hour some of the time last night. We are out [of] sight of land all the morning. Some cold. I have a very good appetite. I am not sick today. We run along the coast till 4 in the afternoon when it began to rain and be foggy. Fished for mackeral some this afternoon when the wind died away. Saw many "Lights" and Islands which I did not know. Saw Mount Desert about dark. 
110 
The sea looks like fire tonight when the swells break. Saw a school of mackerell this eve. They look very brilliant. I staid in the Galley tonight, was very cold and did not sleep much. Pretty good breeze. Had to lay to 2 or 3 hours because so foggy. Wind hauled round towards morning so that 
[we] have [a] head wind and quite foggy. Rained all night and quite cool too. 
Buck's Harbor Tuesday September 7, 1830. Very rainy all day and head wind, hard to beat. Foggy especially in afternoon. Had wet feet all day, expect [to] get cold but hope not. Dont have a very pleasant time, so wet and wind against us. We beat against the wind till 4 o'clock when Capt. made for harbor called Buck's Harbor. It is a very romantic but good harbor with good anchorage. After we were moored I throwed out a fish in hopes of catching some fish but had no bites. FJve of the passengers went on shore in the boat and got some milk and eggs. There are but 2 or 3 houses around the harbor but inhabitants are generally very neat and industrious. 
Almost all the sea coast of Maine is an iron-bound, bold shore and vessels can approach very near land with safety. Hardly any other trees grow near the sea where I have been but cedars and spruce, which make a kind of gloomy appearance. In some places the ravages of fire can be seen and the tall straight cedars are seen dry and without verdure like the lofty masts of ships. I am told the inhabitants on the shore subsist cheifly by fishing, the land being less profitable than the sea although I saw some pretty good farms. We enjoyed ourselves very well on board the vessel this afternoon in the Cabin and those who were sick soon got well when the vessel was in still water. The sailors here had a very wet time yesterday and today. Went to bed tonight with the expectation of sleeping some. Have not slept much for some nights past. Another vessel (schooner) put into harbor this afternoon. 
Off coast of Maine Wednesday September 8, 1830. Arose this morning about 6, I think. But very little wind and that almost against us. Made sail after breakfast for Eastport. The weather is foggy yet with signs of a continuance of the rain. Sometimes it look[s] very much like "breaking away" and being fair but perhaps in 5 min. it will rain as fast as ever. 
We sailed leisurely along the [coast?] all day, sometimes going within a stones throw of huge rocks which formed the coast. Saw some lazy porpoises rolling about in the water this morning. Fished for mackerel today but caught none. "Along toward" night it began to grow more foggy and the tide to run against us and no wind hardly. So that about dark we were in so thick mist that we could not hardly see the length of the ship. 
A little before night we heard the fog bell at West Quod[d]y Light but after that we could not hear it although we fired a fog gun from a swivel on board, so that the Capt. concluded we had drifted back with the tide. But after an hour or 2, there being a little more air or wind, we came [with]in hearing of the bell and the Capt., then knowing perfectly well where he was, made for West Quody Harbor and anchored the ship in still water. Rainy tonight. 
Off Eastport Thursday September 9, 1830. Arose about as early as usual and found it rather foggy and some rainy yet. We anchored in sight of Lubec Meeting House which sits on a rising ground from the town and makes a good land mark. The light (West Quody) was a little to the stern of us, and Lubec Meeting House ahead. I fished here some this morning with the same success as before. Campo Bello, an island belonging to England, was on our right; Maine on our left; Grand Menan, another British island, laid off to the stern of us almost hid from view by fog. 
After breakfast we again set sail, having now and then a little rain which kept the decks wet and our feet likewi.se. We sailed along close to Campo Bello, being obliged to enter Eastport harbor at the east entrance because we could not enter the west on account of a bar there which is difficult to be crossed at low water. Campo Bello is very much like the coast of Maine being almost straight up and down like a wharf and filled with little coves which run up into it perhaps twice the length of a vessel and sometimes more. It is very thickly wooded with almost [every?] kind of trees but cheifly spruce and cedar, I should think. A light is placed on the end of the island bordering on the east passage by the British Government. We went by the passage sight [site?] about noon. 
After we had got into the harbor we saw a large lot of gulls flying about and lighting in the water, catching herrings, the sailors said. I should think there was an acre of them. Between 2 and 3 o'clock, the fog clearing off, we found ourselves in sight of Eastport. It is not a very large place, but what may be called a large village having [being?] very well calculated for a handsome town if rightly laid out. The ground gently ascending from the water, on the high ground overlooking all the houses and the harbor is a very fine fort. We landed and went up to the best tavern in the place in Washington Street, kept by Sloan. The streets are very irregular and mudy and the buildings generally not very good with a few honorable exceptions. The street next to the wharves (Water St.) is cheifly composed of stores and mechanic's shops and is the business street. 
We found vessels enough going to St. Johns who would like to carry us. We have spoken for passage on the Schooner Porthat, and intend going tomorrow, wind permitting. We went to see True Edmunds who is at work here for his brother who keeps a livery stable. It is very foggy tonight and they tell me it is general-ly very foggy here. I understand there will be no corn here hardly, but potatoes good. Hay not very plentiful. Folks are not done haying here. No fruit grows here. Heard some music from the fort tonight at 9 o'clock. 
Eastport Friday September 10, 1830. I was awoke this morning at 4 by a gun from the fort but did [not] arise then. I found wind against us when I went to see the Capt. about sailing and so I had to content myself another day here. A man here wanted a horse machine made to cany a threshing mill, and he [we? Father?] helped him all day. Got it most [done?] at night. Rained some today. I have seen many Indians since I have been here who live on an island about 6 miles off under a government of their own party. They_ catch porpoises for their oil and seals for their skins. They are simple in. their manners and provide only for the present. Great lovers of rum. 
We calculate to go to St. Johns tomorrow. Have not done much today but run about and see what is going [on] in the place. They have very extensive salt works about a mile from here, I am told, where they manufacture 1000 bushel of salt a day from a mineral brought from England where it is bought very cheap for ballast for ships. It is something like our common [salt] but has much more saltiness than salt. It is a very profitable establishment, I am told. I meant to have gone and seen it but it rained and I had no umbrella. There is but little shipping here and that is cheifly small craft. 
Bay of Fundy Saturday September 11, 1830. Arose pretty early this morning and found that our vessel was ready to start. Blustered around some time before [I] could find Father, took breakfast and went on board with hardly any wind and plenty of fog. Took us to most dinner time to get out of the harbor, but we did not have dinner till 3 and then a poor [one]. Our vessel is small and no good accomadations for passengers. The Capt. a very fine man, I II guess. 11 Fog cleared off after we had got out of harbor and the wind breezed up finely. The steamboat St. Johns went by us at the rate of 4 miles an hour making a noise like a rolling factory before the wind breezed up, but when that blew we gained upon her 3 or 4 miles notwithstanding she had as much sail as we had and steam. Miserable boat! We kept insight of her all day although the wind almost left us. 
The coast all along to St. Johns is very similar to that of Maine which I have already mentioned, being very bold and covered with cedar. I saw not one farm from Eastport till I got to St. Johns. Came in sight of the Nova Scotia coast. They have very remarkable tides here. The tide at Eastport 
123 
arises between 20 and 30 ft and at St. Johns between 30 and 40, and 100 miles above St. Johns 60 ft. Our Capt. told me they had to make more calculation in sailing about the tides than wind. We arrived in the mouth of the river St. Johns, or harbor, about dark and the tide got so strongly against us and the wind so light that we had to anchor all night. 
Quite cold tonight. Can see lights from town. There is a Light at the entrance of the harbor on an island and a buoy between this and the town on the [?] . Spoke with a vessel bound to St. Johns from Jamacai this evening. An Irish sailor passenger for St. Johns on board gave me a very nice konk [conch] shell. 
St. Johns Sunday September 12, 1830. The vessel was under way for town this morning before I was up. Very cold air. Had a fair view of St. Johns from the vessel. It is situated by the right bank of the river where it bends a little below some falls. It ascends gradually from the water to a little height and is rather irregularly laid out. But little ship[p]ing considering the size of the place. The houses are mostly wood and not very remarkable for their beauty. Many of the buildings are shingled instead of clapboarded. 
After we landed we went up Bing's [Road?], a very wide and mudy one in order to find a tavern to get some breakfast but we found none which we could enter but one little and dirty-looking into which we passed and got some breakfast. I dont like the looks of the city at all. It does not look so neat and clean as our New England villages and towns. After breakfast we went down to the wharfs and inquired for Grandfather and found that he was up the river 30 miles and over at what they call the "Head of the Reach," and that it would be our best way to go over to a little village near the falls called 11Indian. Town 11 and then wait for a boat. Accordingly we started off and after we got there we found that all the boats called 11wood boats" had started that morning before we got there and so we had to wait all day lounging about doing nothing. There were a number of Indian's wigwams on the other side of the river which I went to see. 
Indians stay about here all the time. They paddle their canoes with astonishing swiftness. They are a lazy set of dirty fellows, sell all they get almost for rum. Their wigwams were made of bark. At this place is what is 
11
called the narrows 11 where the river is hem[m]ed up between 2 solid rocks of limestone. Much lime is made here. Went to the Freewill Baptist meeting this evening, liked [it] very much. The meeting was well attended. There are falls, as I said before, between St. Johns and Indian Town over which boats can only pass up and down at high water, and then not without a pilot. 
Hardly any corn grown here but excellent potatoes better than I ever 
saw before anywhere. 40 cts. We board[ed boat.  Corn is worth $1.00 in] Indian Town at Johnson's  a bushel, wheat $2.00, potatoes Tavern waiting for a  
Stjohns  

Monday September 13, 1830. Fine day and fair wind for us to go up now. We staid lounging about till dinner time and no boats had started for up river and Father hired a man to carry us up in a small boat. After dinner we started again. For the first 2 miles the tide ran very strong against us, especially at the narrows, and the bank of the river on either side is of solid rock 100 ft. high in some places, I should judge, and a great part of it limestone. It made a very roman-tic appearance. At a place about a mile from where we started we stopped to get some pure cold water which poured out beneath a rock and I picked up a peice of beautiful white marble, of which there was considerable about near by, the boatman told us, and indeed I saw a barn underpin[n]ed with some of it. Rich underpining! 
After going about 3 miles we entered the bay which was very much agitated by the wind and tide and is about 7 miles long. Saw some Indians on the shore on their way to St Johns. At the head of the bay we stopped at a tavern and took in two more passengers who rowed for their passage. The wind [died?] away. On the west side of the bay there appeared to be some pretty good farms, but above the bay, till we got to the "Head of the Reach" or nearly there, not many good can be found, I should think, by the appearance. 
The Reach is a long stretch of the river in our direction for about 20 miles and will average 1 mile wide all the way, I should think, and very deep. About 1/2 way we stopped again to get some water from a very cold spring near the river and on put[t]ing a bottle into the water and placing it out [on] the ground the bottom drop[p]ed off, which is the case with all glassware the man told us that lives close by it. This is something singular, I think. Got 2 more oars here, and went on again till we came to a tavern at the Head of the Reach called Van Wart's about 1 o'clock at night, sleepy, tired and cold, having been in an open boat. Got into house and went to bed. 
Greenwich Parish, Kings County, New Brunswick] Tuesday September 14, 1830. Arose in good season and found that the wind is blowing against us so hard that it is doubtful whether we go down or not. Father sent the boatman off after Grandfather, who lives about 2 miles off. In the meantime I took the boat and sailed about the river. The farms about here look to be very good and I am informed that there are some exellent farms between this and Fredericktown 70 miles further. The river is navigable for boats of 100 tons to that place, I should think, and further up for for smaller. After loitering about awhile the boatman came back and said that Grandfather was not at home, but that the old woman 

. where he boarded was very***** and inquisitive to know who wanted to see him and said she had expected Father down and wanted to know why Father had not come to Grandfather himself &c. Anyone from this conversation can judge what kind of woman she is. Father sent the boatman off again to bring him some way and accordingly about noon he came. He was dressed very poorly which argued that he was not in very affluent circumstances but not that he was not honest and upright as I understood he was in a great degree. It was the wonder of his neighbors why he lived with such persons of bad character for I was told he supported them in laziness by his industry. Some think he is worth something and others not. He has concluded to go home with Father in about 2 weeks. He says he has always been trying to get a little money so that he might go home, but that all his plans have been frustrated, perhaps, because he has not gone home before. He wants to go home but still he feels ashamed to because he has been gone so long and got no more property probably. He is going to settle up his little business as soon as possible with the help of Father. 
Wednesday September 14, 1830. I awoke this morning and found it rainy and a southerly wind against us. After breakfast Father and I walked up to where Grandfather lived. It is a poor place to live but still has some marks of cleanliness about it. It was a log hut built against a large ledge of rocks, which formed one side of it. It had 2 rooms or places to stay in. Grandfather had a little shop near where he made all kinds of wooden ware and sold it up and down the river. Strange it is that he has lived here instead of going home and living like other folks. But it is pride, I think. 
It cleared off a little about noon and we started after dinner. A steamer goes from St. Johns to Fredrickton. This river is used much like a road and is the only way almost by which the country is travelled near it. There are taverns on its banks as much as on a public road. In winter it is used in part for a road. A noble river, broad deep and long! Finer than the Merrimack some, I think. The land is very cheap in this Province. We had to row all the way from the Head &c. to St Johns, a little more than 30 miles. I took one oar all the way. Rowed 7 miles against and with tide the first stretch. Did not feel it much. 
On the banks of the river the hay is started as it is on salt marshes near the sea, viz. on piles drove into the ground, and some without them. Got half way at 8 o'clock in evening, and then the tide and wind was against us. Hard rowing. Stopped here at the boatman's father's and got 
126 
some bread and milk. A little refreshed. Quite cool, and I dont fancy rowing all night and paying for it, but have to so as to take the steam boat at St. Johns for Eastport. Stopped again after a stre[a]tch of 7 miles at a tavern and warmed us one hour. This I thought very comfortable but dreaded the remaining 10 miles the more for being so comfortable. We started again which was at the head of the "Bay" and found it very calm instead [of] being very much disturbed as it was when we went up, because there was no wind. Tide carried us down some now because it had turned. Arrived at Indian Town at daylight and warmed by a good fire. I felt very glad that my rowing was over and that I had again regained "terra firm a." 
Bay of Fundy tween St Johns and Eastport Thursday September 16, 1830. Very clear day but "as cold as guns" and windy. After having warmed me I started for town and took the steamboat at 6 o'clock. About a dozen passengers in the dirtiest, slowest and most miserable steamboat ( or a thing they call so) in existence, I think. It smells like a greasy machine shop and makes a noise when going [as?] from a smashing rolling mill. It is a disgrace to St Johns to have such a boat. They told me that it was a dozen horse power!!! Tide and wind is against us and one may judge how fast we go when she averages at any time about 4 or 5 knots an hour. St. Johns is a most curious place for shoemakers and tailors. Here almost every house had a sign of one or the other of these. 
I saw 1 or 2 pretty churches. There are an abundance of Irishmen and Englishmen here. They are generally the off scourings of their countries and come here because they cannot get employ-ment there. To look for the present is generally a characteristic of them (for I think I never saw one rich in life) and they will have their days of drunkenness and carousing, which makes them turbo-lent and troublesome members of society. The people of the pro-vinces have a very high opinion of the States and acknowledge that they are superior to England in ingenuity and enterprise. I think from appearance that they are quite contented with their govern.ment, which is very good and similar to that of the States, or at least their laws are. We drove along against wind and tide for a time but after the tide turned we went faster. Took no comfort all day, so cold. Boat rocked and rolled very much by the motion of the water. 
Arrived at Eastport at 9 o'clock having been 15 hours coming 60 miles. Had to pay 40 cts to the Custom-House officer for landing trunk. Went to Sloane's. Capt. Shackford has not sailed but will tomorrow. Feel very tired and dirty by this day's jaunt. 
Eastport. Friday September 17, 1830. Arose quite early and went to see where Capt. 
12r 
Shackford [lives?]. At 10 he sails, and then I went and got my breakfast. Started at 10 with a noble breeze which drove us along very fast. The vessel is loaded very deep with pla[i]ster. We passed by Lubec at this time because we went out the harbor at the opposite passage to which we came in. We had about 20 passengers, a few sick. At 1/2 past 7 tonight we were off Mount Desert and, the wind not being very fair for us, the waves broke over the vessel considerable at times and wet the decks. I was not sick. It is generally thought that Smith is chose Gov. of Maine instead of Huntoon. The Election was on Monday last. Quite warm Down East about in politicks. 
Portland Saturday September 18, 1830. Very fine breeze this morning and fine day. Slept very well last night. It is very pleasant sailing this morning. Saw ***** Island and light this morning about 20 miles from Portland and at the mouth of the Kennebeck River. It is a very barren heap of rocks. The coast along here is all made up of ledges of rocks. Arrived off Portland about 10 o'clock and, the wind dying away, the Capt. had to send the boat in with the Portland passengers and lay by with the vessel till it returned .. Six or 8 were bound for Portland. We started off in the boat with the sea as level as a house floor almost, it was so calm. Had a pleasant boat ride. It was about 6 miles to town. We passed directly under White's Head, a large high ledge of rocks with a little grass on top where sheep were feeding. There are many islands off the harbor making 5 or 6 passages into it. 
After leaving White Head on the left we came to a little island on which was a small fort. Leaving this on our right we came in full view of a noble and handsome town. On our left as we came towards the town was a fine fort situated on the mainland and on our right was a point of land on which was an observatory. The town at some distance does not make so much show as some other that I have seen, but when it is entered it will appear better or at least I found it so. 
I had formed my opinionáthat it was no great of a place, but I never was so much mistaken. It is the handsomest town of the size that I ever was in. The sun was so very hot that I swe[a]t some. We arrived at the wharf about 12, and went immediately to Mitchel's tavern. After dinner down to the wharf and found a steamboat bound for Augusta and engaged my passage. Starts tomorrow at 6 o'clock. There is a fine lot of shipping here although not so much as at some larger towns. The principal part is brigs and ships, which are generally new. The streets are very pleasant, especially some of the back ones where the noise of business is but little heard. There seems to be a considerable taste for trees which add much to the beauty of the place. After walking from one end of the town to the other I went into the museum which, though small, is very well selected and shows a variety of curiosities. I understand that a theatre will be 
lL6 
opened soon. Some very fine churches. Portland is almost surrounded with water, a large marsh-like running upá on the back of the town opposite the harbor, and some of the streets pass from the water on the one side to water on the other. There is a good observatory here on a peice of ground a little more elevated than the town. I feel much tired walking about but am repaid for my pains by what I have seen. Portland seems to me to be a very orderly and well regulated town. I saw no cases of drunkenness or other vices but all appeared to be industrious and attending to their own business. 
Saturday September 19, 1830. Fine day. Arose at 6 and went to the landing to take steamboat. It was waiting for the Connecticut which arrives from Boston this morning. After she arrived (which is a large handsome steamer) we started, having taken in passengers for Augusta from her. We passed among so many islands that I could not tell which way we got out of the harbor. The helmsman said there were 365 islands in the bay (Casco) and navigable among them. We arrived at the mouth of the Kennebeck about noon. 
This steamer is not very nice but goes very well for so small a one. From the mouth up to Bath the land is not very good but principally rocks on the shore of the river and poor land back. There are but very few buildings on the banks that I saw. Phipsburg lies at the mouth of the river. A few miles before I got to Bath I saw some very good farms and also all the way from Bath to Augusta. The river is navigable for vessels of most any size to Bath and for smaller vessels to Augusta and for boats to Waterville. I like the looks of the river and the farms on the banks very well. It is a fine river. And a fine days sail from its mouth to Augusta. At Bath, which is quite a village situated on the west bank 14 miles from the sea, we shifted steamboats, and took the [boat to] Waterville, a little flat.bottomed crazy thing which went very slow. There is a little shipping at Bath such as brigs and schooners &c. I am told apples are very plenty here this year. The early frosts have hurt the corn much. We passed by a number of villages, some of which I do not now recollect. We passed Gardiner and Hollowell after dark and so I did not have a chance to see them. We arrived at Augusta about 9 and were glad to get off to bed. Very much fatigued with 75 miles' travel. 
On the whole I have had a very pleasant sail today, about as good and pleasant as I have had since I came from home. The day has been favourable and my company good and accomadations about common. We will start for Waterville tomorrow morning, which is about 20 miles off. Going in stage. This is my last rout and I am truly glad, for I am tired of being jounced about any more at present although I like to go over the country and see all that is worth seeing. 
1Z9 
Augusta Monday September 20, 1830. Awoke not very early. Hadnt time to go out to see the place but it appears to be a new place rising slowly. The streets run par[r]al[l]el with the river, and one above the other so that the street is nearly as high as the tops of the houses of the street below. Their State House is not finished. The outside is nearly finished. Started at 8, passed over a fine covered bridge. The stage was full. All the way from Augusta to Waterville the road goes along the east side of the river very nigh to it. There are many good farms on the river which appears to be settled on all the way up. I saw a tavern sign worthy of note, it was the "Va[ss]alborough Hotell," the Hotel having 2 l's. We passed through Va[ss]alborough and Winslow and arrived at Waterville at 11. á 
I found it a little village situated on the west side of the Kennebeck 18 miles from Augusta and,.I should think, contained 800 inhabitants. It is built on one straight street and has a fine large new Baptist church, and one owned by the town and an academy built of bricks. I took dinner at the tavern--(Page's). A covered bridge crosses the river. After dinner a Mr. Huth went up to the colleges with me. They are situated about half a mile from the village on the same bank of the Kennebeck and consist of 2 
buildings  of brick  about  the  same  size  as  that  at  New Hampton  only  4  
stories  instead  of 3. There  is a fine yard  around  them  withgravel  walks.  
Something  like this  
--DRAWING HERE-. 

The students were out exercising themselves when I arrived there, playing at ball. I went to Hutchinson's room and did not find him but soon he returned and was quite glad to see me. He rooms with a Clark. Gould and Ingalls are together and have not been here. Gidding has entered the Sophomore Class and rooms with one of his Class. And so I must shift for myself in getting a room. I inquired among the students who are very accomadating and pleasant but found no vacancy where they wished a "chum," as they are called here. 
Hutchinson introduced me to the President this afternoon. He is a perfect likeness almost of old Esqr. Von Pembroke and acts and talks very much like him. He told me I should be examined this eve at 7 o'clock at one of the Tutors Rooms. One would hardly think him from his looks to be a Pres. of a Col. but I suspect he has a great store of knowledge. I was likewise introduced to Prof. Conant. He is a fine man. 
I find that the rooms of the College are rented to the students for 6 dollars a year and that all are obliged to room in college buildings. The rooms are entirely furnished by the students who occupy them, with 
130 
. st confess this was something I did not 
everything which they need. I ~u 11 unprepared. I find that the students 
know of and of course I came w o ihers so that a bed will not be very in general use straw beds for fe~he 1st floor of the "South College" and, expensive. I have foun~ a room on átuation as I should like, yet I must be although it is not in quite so good as\ t The rooms are chosen according content with what I can get~ I ~am~::i~g the preference and so down in to the different classes, the en1orsh who bring up the flag end. But I regular gradation to the poo; Fr~s me~ere for this class is as large as all have no reason to _say poor res ~en ther ~nd I am sure as respectable. the other classes in Colleged phut og:ntered this year and there are 10 
Twenty-three, I understa_n ' ave 
Sophs,i7J~~iof; room at 7 o'clock and he examined me in

~~~osrs;~~:.~ 
Greek Reader and Cicero and Tutor John Chaplin in Virgil. I went through with it quite well to w'hat I expe_cted ma1?n~ not more than 1 or 2 mistakes. Tutor John is very critical in all resotat1ons. 
Waterville, Me. . 
Tuesday Sept 22, 1830. Arose this morning at 5 o'clock when the bell nngs for prayers and went to the Chapel, a large room in the South [College] where every student is required to assemble at prayers, morning and evening, when the bell rings. As it would be difficult to write every particular concerning the place at once I shall endeavor to remark upon the even ts as they pass before me from day to day or give fu ther discription of the places. I slept at Mr. Shepards, the steward, who has provided me with a bed at his house untill I can get one. I board in Commons as most of the students do for 7I a week having victuals only. 
The boarding house is kept in the Cellar Kitchen of the "North College" by a steward who attends to that exclusively and lives there. I never boarded better anywhere. I think our Steward deserves praise for the promptness and good style with which he serves us. 
I have not studied any today but have been running about for a bed and at last have bought the materials with which to make one with. I bought many things "second handed" of the students: 2 chairs for 67, andirons for 8, shovel and tongs for 25, table for 12, and looking glass for 42, skillet for 20 and curtains for 17, bookend 2. All my other things I bought new. A bed stead 300, bedtick 1/12, water pail 33, basket 33, mug 6, bedcord 50, feathers 60 for pillary [pillowry?], 7 / 43 for cloth for bed clothes, 12 for straw. I shall move into my room tomorrow. 
We rescite 3 hours a day, in Lacroix's Algebra directly after prayers in the morning, in Terence Comedies at 11, and in Grecae Majora at 1/2 past 4. The lessons although not very long are quite difficult to me because I have to begin in the middle of a book as it were. All the classes rescite at 
131 
the same time and no rescitation is longer than an hour. The bell rings when they must begin and end so that all is regular and everything comes in its place. Breakfast at 6, dinner at 1/2 past 12 and supper 1/2 past 6. Students are required to study till 9 in the evening. I am much pleased with the apparent good feeling which exists between the officers and the students, I hope it is an criterion by which I can judge all the measures taken by them for the good of the students. 
Wednesday September 23, 1830. I have not studied any yet because busied about the affairs of my room. Today I have got all my things home to my room and opened my trunks, placed my clothes and books in order ready to go to studying. It would be amusing to one, I presume, to see me busied about my room and furnishing it with p.eccessary furniture. It would seem perhaps some like the hurry and bustle of a house for a new married couple. I like my room very well, because it is neat and clean, having been recently painted, except that the paper has been torn off some by a mischeivous predecessor. 
Thursday September 23, 1830. I studied more today but am busy today as yesterday getting my bed home &c. Feel quite content now by "my own fireside." I bought me a Greca Majora for 3.00 and Terence for 42 [cts]. I have no Algebra. I now begin to enter on my College course of studies which I must pursue 4 years, a long time to anticipate truly! But soon it will pass away and I shall be on some other stage of action. This I consider as an important event in my life for now I have it at my option either to distinguish myself as a scholar by perseverance, or to be a Scholasticus by a kind of half-way exertion. I know that my desire is to be one like the former but whether is my desire so great as to impel me towards that station with unwavering exertion I am uncertain. It is my duty to consider the immense obligation I am under to improve my time since I have arrived at this situation only by great expense to my father. He expects it no doubt and he has a right to expect it. 
Friday September 24, 1830. I am seated by my table pondering the dark and almost incomprehensible work of Lacroix. The class are on a ***** and on that account I have to study very hard. We rescite in Algebra and Greek to Tutor Paine and in Latin to Prof. Conant. Their are 2 Prof and 2 Tutors besides the Pres. The Pres. goes dressed in real old fashioned cloths, regarding nothing but comfort. He looks laughable when he gets into his surtout up to his ears but [that] is of no weight since he is of sound understanding and solid sense. I went to witness the students declaim on Wed. and from what I then witnessed I concluded that we have as good at New Hampton Institution. 
13l 
Saturday September 25, 1830. We only rescite in Algebra and Terence today and have the afternoon to ourselves. The Kennebeck runs within a few rods of the colleges on the bank where the students have a fine boat built by themselves to sail up the river in. There are falls below and above, about a mile apart, which they here call "rips." The bed of the river is of solid slate stone of which I shall have occassion to speak hereafter. A large tract of land adjourning the college premisses belongs to the College which the students can cultivat[e] if they choose and besides a frame is raised for the purpose of a workshop for the students which they intend soon to finish. Much wood can be and is obtained by the students from the river when it floats down and lodges on the shore. Some provide themselves wholly with wood in this way by a little trouble. 
-
Sunday September 26, 1830. Very rainy all day and but few persons attended the meeting. Doct. Chaplin preached because no minister is settled in this place. The Baptist Church consists of 100 members but, being scattered much and rather cold,they have [no] minister. I think they intend. to have one soon. A fine church belongs to the Soc., large and lately built. Dr. Chaplin is not a very powerful speaker and he read his sermons without a gesture but they are sound, and afford much instruction. I wrote a letter to Bro. Worth in New Hampton. 
Monday September 27, 1830. It seems quite odd to hear the bell ring 
every morning to arouse us from bed but I begin to get used to it, I find. I 
think there can be nothing more healthy scarcely to a scholar than early 
rising. I am quite pleased that we are awakened so early although it may 
be difficult to arise at first, or in cold weather the warm bed will be left 
with reluctance, almost like drawing teeth. If every student is not in when 
the doors are closed at prayers, no one without can open them and of 
course he is marked absent byá the Monitor and has to render his excuse 
for his absence to his Tutor. It is an exellent plan and serves to make them 
very punctual in their attendance at prayers and rescitation. For every 
absence from prayers, rescitation or any misdeme[a]nor the student has a 
mark placed against him by his Tutor if no satisfactory excuse is rendered 
for such an offence by the offender. And at the last Commencement, in his 
Senior year, each students part is assigned to him according to [the] 
number of marks against him. If he has the least of his class he will have 
the first part, if next to the least he will have the second part, and thus all 
the parts are assigned and each students' "reward according to his deeds -whether good or evil." 
Tuesday September 28, 1830. I rescite now regularly with the class 
133 
although the lessons do not yet come easy to me, but I think they will in a few weeks. I understand that the inhabitants of the town are very friendly to the students and esteem them highly, which is a very pleasant consequence, especially if any are wishy to spend his 4 years in comfort and at peace with the people. The inhabitants of the village are cheifly Unitarians and Universalists, as one told me. There is a very fine brick academy situated near the Baptist 
Meeting House lately commenced. It has about 30 students I think. 
Wednesday September 29, 1830. Weather for some days has been quite cool but not much so today. A part of the students declaimed today with about the same success as before. A 1/3 of them speak alternately. Attended a lecture given by Prof. Conant on the harmony of the New Testament and [am] very much pleased he intends to pursue such a course. I also attended the Platonic Soc. of the Freshmen this eve and joined it by signing the Constitution. We do nothing but debate extemporaneously some question previously given. A fine thing! The origin of this Soc. is this. The Freshmen are not al[l]owed to join the other literary [societies] untill they have been a member of College 3 months, and so we formed this. 
Thursday September 30, 1830. Another month has imperceptibly glided away and how changed is my situation from what it was on the 1st day of last month. Then I was at home surrounded by friends dear and near to me by the alliance of blood, now in Waterville nearly 200 miles from home almost entirely among strangers. But still the same omnipresent God watches and guards me as in my former days. Gratitude, truly, is due from the bottom of my heart. I pursue still the same course of study day by day. Apples are brought here frequently and sold for 25 cts. Corn is injured some down here by the early frosts. Oats are 2/ a bushel. The prices of goods are generally high in the village although it would seem that they might be low since there is water communication by which they may be b[r]ought up. Waterville is about 60 miles from the sea and is the head of boat navigation of any kind, although rafts of lumber come down. 
Friday October 1, 1830. Weather begins to have the feeling of fall, Now frosts are common and one will involuntarily put his hands in his pocket to keep them warm. I have a small fire all the time now and obtain fuel from the river. Our lessons are quite long. Squaretoed boots and Sugarloaf hats all the rage among people of fashion this year past 
Saturday Oct 2, 1830. I did not do much this afternoon but look around a little. I went to visit some medical springs a little down the river, which appears to be impregnated with some substance the taste [of] which is 
131 
very disagreeable and brackish. I should think some of our literary Gent. would examine them soon. Took a boat ride up the river about a mile,the water was very rapid all the way. We sailed up and floated down with the current. 
Sunday October 3,1830. Cold and windy today. Wore a cloak. Dr. Chaplin preached in his usual way, but delivered a finely written sermon. I like him very much for his old-fashioned, unaffected way of speaking and manners. The house was not very well filled. In [the] evening I attended a prayer meeting in the "Village School House." It was full and Mr. Porter took [the] lead. The Sabbath does not appear as it was wont [?] to at N. Hampton. Meetings are not conducted here in so familiar and social style but more formal. 
Monday October 4, 1830. Arose at the bell hour. I feel much better for rising early, I think. When we get into prayers it seems much as it used to at Pembroke when Preceptor Vose made prayer. Each class sits by itself on all occasions and in alphabetical order except at our meals. In this way everyone knows his place and there is no crowd-ing and jostling for a seat. The President reads a chapter from the Bible himself always and makes the prayer. Someone being a little vexed with the officers hid the Pres. Bible the other day, but it was soon returned. A mean trick, I think. 
Tuesday October 5,1830. Three or 4 of us have attained liberty for cut[ting wood?] on the college lands near by and so we [go] there 1/2 hour and more a day. In this way we intend to get our wood for fire and exercise too. They sent in a petition to the Officers to be excused today to go to a muster over in Clinton and so there was no exercises. A fine day. I took the boat and went up river and brought down a heaping cord of dry wood which I found on the rocks. After I came back I went to see the Philosophical Apparatus and museum. The Apparatus is fine, although not very extensive, It was bought in London and presented by Dr. Bales. The minerals presented by Jeremiah Stickney are fine, and the whole is kept in the nicest order. Not having the key, we could not see the Chemical Apparatus, which is in another room. After dinner I mended a pr. of trowsers and played ball. Pres. has gone to North Yarmouth to a meeting of an Education Soc. I have commenced a translation (written) of all my lessons in Greek and Latin. 
Wednesday October 6, 1830. On account of the burial of a Mr. Stickney who died lately there was no exercises in the afternoon but the students went to the funeral generally. I did not attend but studied my lessons. It was my turn to declaim today. Prof. Conant hears us declaim. 
13r 
Thursday October 7, 1830. Cool weather and very heavy frosts. Hutchinson and Gould have engaged schools in town, one for 14 dollars a month, the other for 13. I hardly know what I shall do [in] vacation, sometimes I think of one thing, sometimes another. I don't know but what I shall go home and study, for this will be the most profitable to me. 
Friday October 8, 1830. There is an extensive library belonging to the college of which the students have a use. I took a book yesterday which is the Freshmen day. One may take out 3 books for 3 weeks. There is also a reading room where useful newspapers and other periodicals are kept. On the whole we have fine advantages here and as good as we could ask. I have written a letter to Dickey and Uncle Smart. 
Saturday October 9, 1830. Very fine day. We rescite 2ce in Algebra now on Saturdays. I have been writing all this afternoon and evening and have read some of***** Siliman's travels through England, Scotland and Holland. It is a fine book. I like to room alone very much, then I can do as I have a mind to and no one to object. 
Sunday October 10, 1830. I retired to bed late last evening, on which account I was very sleepy this morning. I find myself much drove in writing, having much to do now. After breakfast Ingalls wished me to go to Winslow with him to a Quarterly meeting, so Hutchinson, Gould, Ingalls and I started off down the river to the place 4 miles from here as I understand. It was a very pleasant walk, although very warm and fair. 
All nature seems now about to change her beautiful garment of green and to assume one of many colours. The frost begins to be frequent, the leaves of trees and plants begin to change their leaf hue and to fall to the earth in a state of decay. Indeed how aptly and frequently has autumn with its nip[ping frosts been used as a representation of Death. What can be a more striking or true compar[i]son, surely none, I think. And as the industrious man now recieves the first of all his labors with joy and the sluggard lies down in want, so will the good man by death enter the other world with rejoicing while the wicked will go away to eternal sorrow. 
The meeting house was not finished but seats were of rough boards which were all filled. The preaching was better than I expected. About SO singers sat in the singing seats but made no more music than 12 good singers. I should have liked one of the ministry better if he had not built up, or tried to,.. his denomination on the ***** of others. This is a bad practice although some used at the present day. I went not to meeting this evening because tired. 
136 
Monday October 11, 1830. It is a fair warm day. We have quite a lot of wood chopped already and are getting more fast. The students had a meeting this evening about finishing the workshop and have agreed to work upon it. A Gent. delivered a lecture on the New Testament Chronology or Geonaloy [Genealogy] of Christ this eve at the Meeting House. I did not go but understood it was not good. Prof. Conant gave us some very good instructions concerning study hours and conduct in rescitation rooms. I have sold my watch for 16 dollars, seal 4.00 dollars, pencil case 
1.50 and handkerchief pin 3.50, making in all 25.00, to Shepard who rings the bell. I have made in this trade about 7 or 8 dollars. Good trade, I think, for me! I think of buying a watch of him worth about 8 dollars for my g[randfather?]. 
Tuesday October 12, 1830. Moderate today. Have to study hard. I have been frequently up and down the river to examine the curiosities of the place. I shall not consider myself competent to give a complete discription of them but shall drop a few remarks which !suppose will be useful and amusing. . 
The river at this place is quite rapid, being affected by falls above and below and runs entirely on a bed of slate stone or something similar, but as I am no mineralogist I cannot tell what it is called: it runs in a regular stratum across the river, more obliquely in some places than in others, varying according to the course of the river but in every case the strata incline downward as a number of boards would be standing on their edges or sides. At a place just below here a ledge of this .kind of stone commences in the east side of the river, being wide at the place, and runs a great way towards the western shore in an oblique direction and still keeping its strata in the same position downwards so that they look as it were the works of art, not of nature. What is remarkable is that this stratum runs in the same direction for nearly a mile above and below this place and appears to be the same soft, soapy and rotten stone. Its colours [are] not like common slate but much lighter, similar to soap or free stone and often forms a bank for the river 15 or 20 ft high and almost perpendicular. On the bank of the river most of the students both of former and present times have cut their names in the rocks. This slate splits very regularly and very thin. 
Wednesday October 13, 1830. Weather fine, pleasant and moderate but still feels like a fall day. I sat up late last night so I am quite sleepy. declaimed today with others of my division. Went to the Testament lecture after declamation, not very good. Had a good debate this evening in the Soc. The question was "Does reading or traveling contribute most to a 
137 
knowledge of human nature?" Decided in the neg. The Soc is very well conducted, I think: and will be very useful to its members if they take interest in it, but if not our advan tages will be lost. It rained considerable tonight before I went to bed. 
Thursday October 14, 1830. It has been very lowering and misty today but no rain. Considerable rain fell last night. Prof. Conant will hear us rescite in Pope's Essay once a week on Thursday mornings for the future. I like the plan much for I hope by this to back up my knowledge of Grammar. I went out with my ax today to cut some small bushes and found my match to cut them, they were so small and withey. I thought to myself that one must have the patience of Job to cut small bushes with an ax in a swamp. I have picked up a number of piles of wood since I have commenced and am well pleased with doing a little useful work once a day for exercise. A number of the students have taken the workshop to finish outside for 75 dollars but I think I choose to "Bushwhack" rather than meddle with it. 
Friday October 15, 1830. Quite moderate weather and have not had any. fire today. Our lessons now are very long and difficult, which drive me along faster then I can get well. I dont like the plan of getting long lessons poorly. Better, in my view, is a short rescitatation well gotten than a long one half prepared. I know, in my own opinion, that I learn not half so much as if I tried to get but half so long a lesson, but I must follow higher orders although it is strange where they are driving us to. I have about concluded to go home next vacation and study because I [think] that the best course I can take. In proportion to what I gain during that time will be the amount of labor which my lessons will require next term. 
Saturday October 16, 1830. Quite moderate fall weather now. As to the amount of warm weather during last year compared with that of former years, it has been small although we have had some warm weather. Autumn now begins to shower the labour of the husbandman with a plenteous and rich supply of all the comforts and luxuries of an agricultural life. What comfort must he take when sitting by his own fireside with his crops well stored and his graineries and barns crowded to excess, thinking that the work of another year's done and well done. Verily he envys not the King of England his throne nor his nobles their vast and extensive riches so long as the works of his hands are prospered by the bountiful smiles of an approving Providence. His farm is his dominions, over which he delights to reign not with that tyranny and moroseness which often characterizes the actions of kings but with that quiet easy sway, and yet with firmness, which the kind parent exercises of his beloved child. I make not this assertion as though it were true in every 
135 
case but in that of a good farmer. 
I did' not study much this afternoon, which is generally the case when I have no regular exercises to perform. I attended a prayer meeting at Mr. Shepard's, the Steward, and I suppose it was a good meeting to some but not to me because I am entirely dead as it were to all religious feelings. 
I have bought a watch [of] Frederick E. Shepard tonight. It is a very pretty little watch with gold hands and worth from 8 to 10 dollars, should think. 
Sunday October 17, 1830. One of the finest mornings for some time. I attended the prayer meeting morning in the Chapel and felt no more like joining in the worship of God than the vilest sinner, and I am constrained to say, 
From whence does this coldness arise 
That fastens my soul in such ties 
In Jesus it never was found 
Nor yet in the realms of the skies. 
Mr. Porter, a young man from Boston, one of our Class, preached today and as well too as I have heard for this long time before. He is a promising man, I think. When I look back upon my life and consider my many transgressions and knowing sins, I am almost ready to say, "How can a Christian do these things? What is man's heart made of who can commit sins even when he has professed to be changed from nature's darkness to the wonderful light of the glorious liberty of the Gospel? Is not the Grace of God sufficient for him?" 
I am now exposed to the temptations and allurements of the world and vanity and I cannot too well arm myself against these fa[s]cinating baits which will prove my ruin if not repelled. I seem to me not to strive to put away those sins which easily beset me but to embrace them with eagerness as my chief joy. 0 that I could but enjoy that nearness to the throne of God which I was used to enjoy when I first found religion taking its reign in my heart, but now it has flown away and left it open to the attacks [of] sin upon all sides. I lay not my present state of feeling [to] Satan, as though he had tempted me to withdraw my affection from its proper object of love and adoration, but to my own vile, treacherous heart and appetites which I have too much obeyed. 
One may as well think to enjoy a pleasant state of feeling in the ***** as to think of being happy in the participation of sensual and worldly pleasures, for he is sure to be tormented by the raging fire of his troubled concience which is much worse than the former inasmuch as it cannot be so easily quenched. A darling sin once indulged leads to a more frequent 
139 
indulgence of it and numerous others of its near relations which can hardly be turned away untasted. I have hardly any hopes of enjoying the presence of God unless I come to this firm conclusion that I will break off the sins which so easily beset me, look for want [wont?] to Christ as my great master. Oh I hope this may be my happy determination and I may live to it prayerfully. 
Monday October 18, 1830. It is quite dull all day and looks like rain. Those students who have taken the workshop to finish have gone to work upon it in earnest. It's nearly boarded. I have to "bushwhack" alone now. We had an awful, horrible, abominable hard lesson in Majora today. I have to study very hard and then do not get my lessons as I wish to get them. I think I cannot "stand it" to study long too. Some persons have been measuring off some ground for a horse race, before the College, because it is level and smo[o]th. The river has arisen considerable from last night's rain. 
Tuesday October 19,1830. It has been raining all day. This afternoon many people assembled to see a horse race.The horse run a mile in 2 1/2 minutes but there was a bet that he could not run it in 9 mi-nutes. Very bad business, I think. I returned the watch I had of Shepard to him again because he desired it. Giddings has moved to the room opposite mine where Boutelle and Stockbridge formerly roomed. 
Wednesday October 20, 1830. Very fine, pleasant weather now. The river has arisen about 2 ft., I should think. It is very strange that I do not have a letter from home because I wrote nearly 4 weeks ago. I find my bushwhacking business very good and healthy. I have hardly anything to write now of any consequence. Our lessons in Terence are the most interesting because [of the] dialogues. From his plays one has a great chance to learn the manner and state of [life?] at Rome in his day. It must have been a very corrupt city, I think, from what I can learn from his plays. 
Thursday October 21, 1830. Weather quite pleasant in middle of the day but cold morning. There was another horse race here yesterday by some foolish persons. 
Friday October 22, 1830. Quite moderate now and pleasant. I hardly know what to write now, my life passes away so uniformly, but when I write but little it must be considered that what I have not written is understood to be mere commonplace transactions ( as much of what I have written) and not worth being committed to paper. Some of the common transactions of the day may not be amiss once and awhile because they will serve to show me in after life when the manner and c[o]stoms are changed [from] what they were once, if I should [live?] to see that time. 

Saturday October 23, 1830. A windy, cool fall day but not too cold for comfort and health. I think such weather as this is as healthy as any in the year because we have neither an extreme of heat or of cold. I took a sail up river in the boat. I reviewed all the Latin I have read this term today. I think I can read it very fast now. Had the long-wished-for letter from home tonight containing $10 and some news. All well. Father arrived at home from St. Johns on the 29 of September without Grandfather, who will come in May next. There were a great many conjectures where Father had gone at home the next day after he went away but all gave up that he would not come back. Aunt Maria Libbey or Seavey or Brown was married to Jona. Brown of Epsom on the 23d of Sept. and moved on the 24th. Doct. Shuth had removed to Barnstead for the want of business, I presume. Quite healthy in Chichester, but 2 deaths in town since I left viz. Mr. Oliver Carpenter and a son of Mr. David Brown, who died of the throat distemper. :Nlother says, "You must take care of your health, if you are sick you will have no mother there to take care of you." Right glad I was to hear from home and good news too. ( $10 in it.) 
Sunday October 24, 1830. It is quite cool and windy today. Dr. Chaplin preached. Had a good meeting in the evening, Mr. Quimby took lead. I dont enjoy religion very much nowadays because I am so worldly and vain, and because I often do that when a little "riled" which I should not think of doing at others. I hanker too much after worldly delights and sensual appetites which I ought to keep under: 
Monday October 25, 1830. Moderate as could be expected for the time of year. We had a few little flirts of rain yesterday and night. We have now almost finished Terence Comedy of the Eunuch, and I think it has been a very interesting study to me, not only from the knowledge one can derive from it of Antient manners and customs but also from the fine style of his works. I never read an author, I think, who showed such a masterly knowledge of human nature, such a faculty of representing his characters, Gnathp in particular and Chremes when accidental[l]y intoxicated. But it is all so well drawn that I can hardly select any best sentences and characters and if they are so beautiful in English we can hardly calculate their value in Latin. 
I must say that Lacroix's Algebra is the hardest study I ever studied yet and although it is written in English I think it will tear off the palm for incomprehensibility in preference to Plato's Greek, or Terence Comedies. It puzzles my brain to find out how a person could put together words so as to form so obscure sentences, but so it is and must be put up with. It is all theory without practice but still it needs another theory to teach common numbheads what his present one means. 
Tuesday October 26, 1830. Fine fall weather with heavy frost which make the mornings and evenings cool. I have been thinking what it is best to do this vacation coming and have almost concluded to stay here and study, although I wish very much to get some money to help myself along. I think it very neccessary to study some more to get up with the class. 
Wednesday October 27,1830. Quite cloudy and lowering today. This day we have sorrowfully witnessed the expulsion of one of the students, Mr. Gow of Hollowell. He had 8 charges against him, viz. breaking the door of one of the garrets and of one of the students, of throwing a football at an officer with the intention of hitting him, of misrepresenting the minds of his class that they wished to be excused from rescitation at a certain time, of speaking a ludicrous peice with the inten.tion of insulting the officer present, of frequently deceiving the Government and some other charges of about the same import. It was very unexpected to me as well as to all the other students. I really pity him that he should so soon have his character blasted and all by his own actions. It's a hard case, I say, and a thing of no little consequence to have his name tar-nished at so early period of life. This is the second expulsion which I ever witnessed. The other was at Pembroke Academy when Augustus Perkins of Hopkinton was expelled. But painful as such things are they must be resorted to when students cannot be made to obey the commands of their instructers and laws. For my part I saw no need for a young man of a college to conduct 
[himself] in such a way as to be expelled. 
Thursday October 28, 1830. Moderate weather but comfortable. There has been a law case at Norridgewock in which Mason of Portsworth and Sprague of Boston were opposed to each other. The workshop goes on very fast and will soon be done. Paid up for my board this term to Mr. Shepard at 7 / a week. We are now reviewing "The Eunuch." It has been quite moderate weather now for some time and none too cold for health. 
Friday October 29, 1830. Fine weather. Bought a large rocking chair with a leaf to it of Shepard for some books, and Webster's Chemistry besides. We did not rescite in Greek this afternoon because Tutor Paine was busied some other way. 
142 
Saturday October 29, 1830. Very pleasant day but cool morning. I worked quite hard this afternoon with Mr. I. Parker getting our wood to the college. I think I shall have 1 1/2 or 2 cords in all I have cut. The Peace Soc. met this afternoon and had addresses and disertations on different subjects. I find my chair to be a fine thing. They are shingling the shop with cedar shingles. 
Sunday October 31, 1830. Hazy and misty-all day. President preached in the A.M. and Mr. Porter delivered an address before the Sunday School in 
[the] P.M., it being their ann[a]versary. It was very good. All the members of the school with their teachers filled the Singing Seats which are very commodious. From 80 to 100 have attended this year. 
Robert Rakes Esqr. of a certain town in England first established Sunday Schools in 1781. How extensively have they been established sine(; then! This name without doubt will be handed down to latest posterity as one of the greatest benefactors of mankind. The school house was crowded in the evening. Mr. Porter le[a]d. 
Monday November 1, 1830. Rained all day. I threw a part of my wood into the cellar or I should have had a job to burn it so wet. I find the motto "Dry wood will bum best" is true. 
Tuesday November 2, 1830. Our days come hastening in rapid succession, leaving a deadly sting behind to those whose time is squander[ed] in useless profusion, and well may many such say, "Delay is the foul unbetterer of all our months_and weeks misapplied to the high purposes of an áindulgent Providence. Must God's blessed gift be perverted to the Devil's use and ends?" Would that I could say nay. Such are my thoughts at the beginnings of another month. 
Wednesday November 3, 1830. I declaimed today for the last time, I suppose, this term, which has now but 3 weeks to keep. I have not bushwhacked any this week on account of the rain that here fell. Had an interesting meeting of the Platonic Soc. The Question for debate was "Have whites a superior intellect to the Black people?" Decided for neg. Chose officers--Sergent, Pres. Afterward we considered the expedienc[e]y of having some penalty annexed to our constitution for non-attendance and concluded that the penalty should be a report to the Government if no excuse was given. This was approved by all of the Soc. but 3 or 4 members who, because they didn't like the penalty annexed to our Constitution, asked their dismission frq_m the Soc. A miserable disposition to show, I think; if the minority wont submit to the majority in reason what shall we do? Can we rule ourselves or keep order in our Soc.? And if we cannot rule ourselves, then can we ever expect to rule or be ruled as a good citizen and republican would wish? I think not I know so. 
Thursday November 4, 1830. Today a petition was handed in to the Govt. praying that Mr. Gows expulsion might be mitigated to a suspension, and at prayers tonight the Pres. read a long address to the students, vindicating their proceedings and saying they had no reason to alter them, so it ended in nothing. 
Friday November 5, 1830. Today I received 2 letters, 1 from Bro. Worth and the other from Collins. Both well as the New Hampton folks in general are. Bro. Worth is ordained at Hebron and 40 have obtained hope since he has gone and the revival is as powerful as ever. Joseph Smith and John Richardson also wrote in his letter. Collins is at New Hampton. He and Ayer are studying freshman studies and calculate some of coming here in February. There [are] about 150 there now. Fellows is keeping school in New Market (Lamphy River). He wishes me to write to him immediately what we are studying etc. 
Saturday November 6, 1830. By the rain which has fell this week the river has risen 2 or 3 feet and runs very rapid. I was invited to a visit at Mr. Morrells tonight but could not attend. A number of [us] have met this afternoon to consider the expediency of having a society for the religious students and of each member taking a periodical (religious) for a reading room. We thought it expedient. I have been reading "Adam's Roman Antiq[u]ities" this afternoon and writing a translation of Terence' Eunuch this eve. 
Sunday November 7, 1830. Attended prayer meeting this morning. I dont enjoy religion nor Christ now. My love has waxed cold and I am led to commit heinous sins against God's holy law. 0 that it were with me as it was in months and days that are past when the candle of the Lord shone round about me! Then I could walk according to his precepts with pleasure, but now God is not in all my thoughts. O the sinfulness of sin and the wounds that it causes in the heart where in our sober moments [we] reflect upon our past conduct. I attended meeting but my eyes were wandering abou the house more than they were fixed on the preacher. So has the Gold**********. The school house was crowded, but many were laughing and whispering in meeting which looked bad. 
Monday November 8,1830. Mailed a letter for Collins this morning. Fine day today. We are now reviewing the Eunuch. 

Tuesday November 9,1830. Hazy all day and looked very likely for rain. I have begun to bushwhack again. I find it exellent exercise. Reviewing Algebra. 
Wednesday November 10, 1830. Fell and hurt my leg among the bushes, makes me very lame. Parker has began unwell in front of the "Junior." Leishman is going home this week. I did not attend Plat[onic] Soc. 
Thursday November 11,1830. I have so little now to write that it is hardly a compensation for keeping a diary but still I think I shall never regret it and therefore I will write on as I have done for 2 or 3 years past. It will serve to bring to my recollection past events and show me what I have been about all my life. I consider it as a***** valuable (at this moment my nose began to bleed) privilege to keep a diary. 
Friday November 12, 1830. Leishman started this morning for home. A Mr. Cogswell preached a lecture this eve in the meeting. I did not attend. I have been reading Silliman's Travels in England, Holland and Scotland which I find very interesting and instructive as well as amusing when one wishes to relax his mind from the tediousness of study. 
Saturday November 13, 1830. Our term draws to a close fast now. We rescited in Algebra this morning but not at [length?] because the tutor was unwell. I have been trying to understand the process of finding the common divisor of a fraction in Lacroix but cannotin any way. It is very strange why it is not just as easy to write intell[i]gible language as unintellegeble, for I must confess that Lacroix's is the blindest stuff I ever saw independent of any process of working the examples. I collected some wood today with the boat. Joh. Chaplin delivered an address before the Temperance Soc. this afternoon. I did not hear it but understood it was gocx:l. 
Sunday Novemberl4, 1830. Moderate for the season. Wore a great coat to meeting. Joh. Chaplin preached. Had a good meeting in the eve. The school house was filled to overflowing. Porter took lead. Drew, the Universalist, preached here for the last time at present. 
Monday November 15, 1830. Examination is drawing near. It will be next Tuesday. Sent a letter to Father and one to Eldwidge and received one from Dickey. He is at Dunstable and does not expect to come here at present &c. It rains today. 
Tuesday November 16, 1830. Rainy all day. I shall not bear a good 

examination in Algebra: it is impossible to be understood. Lacroix thought when he made his Algebra that everybody else knew as much about it as he so he made it as dark, intricate, and unintellegible as possible. 
Wednesday November 17, 1830. Rainy all day. Mr. Parker wanted me to help him dry his wood this forenoon but the rain hindered in the afternoon. His ***** price of work. Speaking today for the last time this term. The postmaster Dr. Chase wants me to come and study in the post office next vacation and tend it. I think I shall. Ingalls had a letter from N. Hampton from Farnum. He and Collins Ayer are coming next term if "nothing happens "to the contrary. 
Thursday November 18, 1830. Rainy yet. We have had an abundance of rain for the last month and the weather has been remarkably moderate for the time of the season when we have reason to expect much colder times. The students have nearly finished the workshop which they undertook some time ago. It will be very convenient when done. Mr. Parker's and Sargent's well lies undisturbed during this rainy weather. They think to dig it 10 ft. deep [&] to have it 10 ft. in diameter when the wall is made, which will be of brick. It is dug about half of the intended depth now and consists of a very hard gravel at the top and a stratum of clay beneath that which is also very hard to be dug. 
Last Tuesday the 16th was the very day on which a year ago in the evening I obtained the peace which there is in believing, if ever. What a memorable day! I shall [have] reason to remember that through all the endless ages of eternity and I hope with pleasure. But Oh, I have to lament my coldness, my backsliding from God, in dust and ashes before him. The pleasures of the world and carnal desires are continually passing in my thoughts to the exclusion of all that is good. On that evening I was invited to prayer meeting held at Mr. Perkin's and when I arrived I found that all those present or nearly all were professors, all alive in Gods work and quite happy. There I felt as though that was no place for me and I was a Judas in the minds [ofJ the disciples of Christ. During the whole evening I was very unhappy when looking at my idleness[?] in the Sight of God. The meeting closed. I went home and retired to bed but could not [sleep?] for I knew not why. I thought the rain tapping against my windows and dropping from the house praised God and I remarked to Mr. Porter, my roommate, to that effect. I wished to see some of [my] fellow students to tell them except [to accept?] of the offer of Salvation through Gods dear Son. I should think it was 12 o'clock before I got to sleep. During the next day I felt not so happy as the night before but was filled [with] doubts and fears concerning [my[ state. I dont recollect as I once thought I had found the Pearl of Great Price but I often queried in my own mind whether or no I had not. 
In the evening I went to the village to a meeting and Oh how I did long to see some of my schoolmates come and talk of the joys of redeeming, for during this meeting I think I felt more confirmed concerning hope. After the meeting, which was held in the school house, there was an enquiry meeting in Mr. Evan's and the room was full of anxious enquirers or young converts. I felt quite happy there and wished every one to taste of the waters of life freely. There were Misses Hadley, Hardy, Garland, Swasy and a number of other young ladies who had obtained a hope. After Mr. Porter and I got home, which was quite late, we went to prayer and never before nor since did prayer seem so pleasant. God seemed to [be] close by me and to hear every word I said. 
Friday November 19, 1830. The Senior Class was examined today. Ours will take place next Tuesday. I am not much concerned about it only as respects Algebra. I have concluded not to go to the post office this vacation but stay here and study. I think it more profitable to me. 
Saturday November 20, 1830. Moderate weather. Juniors were examined today. I have been looking through my Algebra this afternoon and find it very difficult. 
Sunday November 21, 1830. Doct. Chaplin preached as usual today on the Sufferings of Christ. In the afternoon the Solemn ordinance of the Lords Supper was administered. Had a good meeting in the evening. House was crowded. We went to Mr. Morrils after meeting and had a chat and sing. Cold night. 
Monday November 22, 1830. Very rainy today. Sophomores examined today. Sat up almost all night studying Algebra and Plato. 
Tuesday November 23, 1830. Quite moderate today but some windy. We were examined in Greek in the A.M. and Algebra in the P.M. In both we got along very well, I think. About a dozen Literary men were present. Such examinations, I think, are good things because they serve as a stimulus thro' the term to appear well at the Examination. Prof. Conant being absent, we shall be examined in Terence tomorrow if he should return. I read the Eunuch thro' tonight. Feel much relieved to think I have got through with a part of the ex[amination]. 
Wednesday November 24, 1830. The weather is very moderate now for the season, I think. I have seen no water frozen over yet, a remarkable fact, I think. I have known the rivers in farmer years frozen hard enough to bear an ox by this time of the month. We were examined in Terence this forenoon, then the whole college was dismissed by the President who gave us some very good advice relative to our conduct during vacation &c. 

Laboured very hard this afternoon in getting some wood from the river to the College. Boutelle and I will room together during vacation. Received a catalogue of New Hampton A and T Institution today from Collins. 270 was the number for the past year. The Female Department will continue through the winter for the future . .The gain in number during the past year has been 37. 
Thursday November 25, 1830. I sawed wood this forenoon. It has been squal[l]y all day and tonight it begins to snow fast. Quite cold. Most of the students have gone away. 
Oh how hard for friends to part! 
How it pains the tender heart 
to give the parting hand to those whom we dearly love. 
If on earth these ties so strong, 
What among the heavenly throng? 
where Christ, the only source of love, face to face is seen. 
Friday November 26, 1830. Awoke this morning and found 2 or 3 in. of snow on the ground, very unexpected surely; it snowed all day or rather snowed and rained. Went to the village and bou[gh]t a bunch of quills. Washed my room this P.M. and "cleared up a little." 
Saturdav November 27, 1830. Very pleasant day. Been making my door tight etc. Prof. Conant says he will get some paper for my room soon. I was going to study Greek, Latin and Algebra. I fear I shall not improve my time as I should during vacation and that I shall waste it making plans how to spend it. It is often the case that when one has a little spare time in which he is not obliged to follow his accostomed occupation, he wastes the whole either in making plans how to spend it or by laying out too largely. Therefore it would be well to find as soon as possible what I want to study and pursue that course with diligence. Diligence is everything in study almost, and without it no one can attain to any degree of eminence in his prof-f ession. 
Sunday November 28, 1830. A very fine day. Snow thawed very much and made the road mudy. Dr. Chaplin preached about the same text as last Sunday. In the forenoon he cleared up several objections which might be brought against his 2 for[mer?] sermons, and in the P.M. he made an application of his subject. He is a very sound reasoner and supported his 
148 
assertions with ability and skill. Not so many present as usual on account of the travelling. I was not at meeting this evening but sat in my room and thought and thought upon my evil ways and many backslidings from God. It does one good so to reflect upon his past actions and see what is recorded in heaven against our names. Alas! I fear my conduct is recorded in frightful lines such as I shall not be able to answer for. The Christians life through this world is long enlistment in the army of God and he that fights manfully to the end and the good fight has a crown laid up in heaven for him. Thus it behoves everyone who has enlisted under the banner of Jesus to be brave and not turn their backs to the foes in flight but to press for work in the holy warfare untill every enemy shall be subdued. 


[Gap from November 28, 1830 to April 13, 1831, where the entry is dated from Chichester and represents a stay at home after term-end at Waterville College. Following some blank pages after the final 1830 entry one page is dated "July 5, 1830 --January 17, 1831," but nothing follows.] 

