
Chichester Monday April 13, 1831. The weather quite pleasant. Mary and I went over to Epsom to visit our uncles and aunts there, found them pretty well except Aunt Davis and she is getting better. There is nothing which I so much dislike as visiting. I like to see my friends and converse with them for a short time while we have something to say, but when I have to go a day or 2 and when time wears heavily 'tis extremely irksome. I see no use in this eternally visiting and gadding when a visit to a friend is but a show, a favor, a custom to make him think we still love and remember him. At heart perhaps we care as little about him as a stranger. Let a person visit when he pleases and not be dragged to it. Friendship is but little more than a name nowadays and where a mans interest does not prompt him, he seldom goes. 
Thursday April 14, 1831. Pleasant spring weather. Came home [from] visit today. Farmers begin to plough, but it is too wet. I am now troubled very much with a melancholy low feeling. My spirits rise and set with the sun. Palpatation does not trouble me much. 
Friday April 15, 1831. I stay in the house and do not much of anything now. 'Tis hard but I have nothing to do. My Diary must be very thin at present, only filled with sentimental [?]. 
Saturday April 16, 1831. The Pine Ground looks very desolate, there being 

no store nor tavern. All business almost has stopped but the store will be shortly filled. Livel[y]ness and activity seem to be a neccessary part of a man's enjoyment. 
Sunday April 17, 1831. It rained yesterday and today, which has raised the river very much. No meeting today so I staid at home and read "Whitefield's Memoirs," interesting. A very long day without meeting. 
Monday April 18, 1831. Went to see Doct. Hill this morning. He bled me and advised me to exercise constantly but lightly, to frequent merry company, to keep up good spirit, and not to be depressed. I then went over to Grandfather's. Folks are all well "as common." Feel somewhat weak. 
Tuesday April 19, 1831. Moderate sunshiny weather. Reading Bonaparte's life. He was a man of wonders certainly. A great general, statesman, and very ambitious. He was the cause of the death of thousands but he fell covered with glory. His name will be sounded to times remotest ages. Libby. 
Wednesday April 20, 1831. (I have nothing very particular to write nowadays so I must scratch together what I can.) Grandfather has been telling of his service in the Revolutionary War. When the battle of Bunker Hill was fought, he was at home in Rye but soon after he enlisted into the war. He was stationed at Fort Ticonderoga when it was given up to the British by Genl. Schuyler, which army retreated to S. Keenesboro in batteaux where they left them and retreated from thence to Fort Ann and to Fort Edward, pursued by the enemy with whom they had some smart skirmishes. On the retreat he was one of a small party who fought with 2 battalions of the enemy and repu[l]sed them. He was under the command of Col. Long of this State. 
From Fort Edward he marched on towards Albany to join the main army under Gates. He left the army on a furlough by reason of sickness 2 days before Burgoyne surrendered. The next time he went on the expedition which was set on foot to drive the British from Newport, R. I. but failed after much expense. He then went many voyages privateering and was taken 3 times. At one time he and 8 others at Savannah arose and took the guard on board his prison ship and escaped in the boat although the harbor was full of British ships of war. At Charlestown he saw and had considerable conversation with Genls. Lafayette and Lincoln concerning their escape from the prison ship. Genl Llncoln gave them some supper etc. He has had many hair-breadth escapes but still never was wounded. 
Although somewhat worn down by the infirmities of age he possessed that same patriotic fire which inspired him to take his gun and fight the battles of his country; and now when he relates the story of his early life his "dim eye brightens" and his old heart grows warm. Now he would fight again if an enemy should but set foot on his own native land. How could our liberties be endangered while we had such determined spirits to guard them? His father was in the same war and fought with Stark at Bennington when such a splendid victory was gained over the enemy. 

Thursday April 21, 1831. Weather quite cool. Did nothing worthy of note. Father and Mother came here from Hopkinton tonight. The roads are very much injured by the late rain. A battle has been fought between the Russians and Poles in which the latter were victorious. 
Friday April 22, 1831. Pleasant day. Went home this forenoon. Father had a load of goods from Hopkinton. 
Saturday April 23, 1831. Fine weather. I went to Doct. Hill's to get some medicine which he has prepared for me. He is a very pleasant young man. 
Sunday April 24, 1831. I went to meeting this forenoon but found it so cold without a great coat that I came home. Mr. Peabody preached. He appears not to be a very spirited or gifted preacher but rather formal and dull. I dislike very much to hear a preacher read his sermon when he is at a loss to find it out. Did'nt like him very well. 
Monday April 25, 1831. I have nothing to do so I have nothing to write. The news from Poland which we have daily almost is very encouraging on the part of the Poles. A number of battles have been fought in which they were conqu[u]rors. Their patriotic conduct cannot fail of meeting the approbation of every friend of humanity. Their abuses have been at least ten times greater than those of the U. S. 
Tuesday April 26, 1831. Mary is going to Hopkinton to school this summer and I am going to Summersworth to work if I am well enough. I have been warned to train this spring. 
Wednesday April 27, 1831. I sent 12 dollars to Mr. Shepard for my board last Monday in a letter. This has been a very wet spring. Dull work staying at doing nothing, I mean to go off soon and do something. 
Thursday April 28, 1831. I have to do anything I can to "kill time." I take first this, then that, expecting every day to go to [Somersworth?] I have been turning some bobbins for Mary Ann and some gim[b]let handles. 
151 
Friday April 29, 1831. I feel very much tired when I stir about all day. My stomach and back are both very weak and take but little exertions to make them very painful. 
Saturday April 30, 1831. Saw Collins today on his way to New Hampton. He is going to Waterville next Fall. This is the last day of another month, one of the short portions of which the whole life of man is composed. 
Sunday May 1, 1831. A fine pleasant May-day. No meeting. Mr. Moutton came over last night with another load of Fathers goods. It is very wearisome to sit still all day Sunday and have no meeting nor anything of the kind. Mary Ann is going to Hopkinton tomorrow in the afternoon. 
Monday May 2, 1831. I went to H[opkinton] this afternoon with Mary Ann. I think 'tis a fine town by the looks. There seem to be many fine farms and [the] general aspect of the town shows that the inhabitants are enterprizing and industrious. The village is situated very handsomely, it being in a valley. 
Tuesday May 3, 1831. Started for home this morning at 7 and went by the way of Epsom. All my aunts there are well. Arrived at home at 3 o'clock and went up to "training." The companies looked and performed very well. 
Wednesday May 4, 1831. Pleasant day, did nothing of any consequence. 
Thursday May 5, 1831. Worked all day upon a box to put my flute in. Felt very tired tonight. Mr. Chase's folks have moved over and taken the mill. 
Friday May 6, 1831. Worked all day upon my box and finished it, all but lock. Very tired again. 
Saturday May 7, 1831. Worked upon a screw to Fathers hand vice which 1 broke yesterday! Finished it. Neat one. 
Sunday May 8, 1831. Rainy therefore did not go to meeting. Feel very uneasy and have since I came home, cannot tell the cause nor an attendant of the particular disease withwhich I am afflicted. Sometimes I have not a friend in the world, then again the hope of some future good buoys me up and raises my fainting expectations. I have had but little comfort in any place since I left Waterville. I seem to be out of my sphere. Nothing to do. Irksome in the extreme, try this thing, then that, change places, turn this side, then that, but its only but its only wearing away time as cheap as 
lSL 
possible. Time lies heavily on my hands. I hate to kill time, 'tis too precious and full too short, but what can I do? I cannot do what I would, cannot work. 
Monday May 9, 1831. For my part I hardly know what I am writing this diary for, a mere scratch of unimportant events as they are passing. Who'll ever be the wiser for it? Perhaps some mischevous urchin will find it and be highly entertained with making fun of its contents, but no matter for that. 
Tuesday May 10,1831. A stud horse and baggage waggon put up here tonight. 0 Dear! I dont know what to say les see c--c--the traders dont have much custom and folks begin to wash sheep and apple trees begin to bloom and I dont know what else. 
Wednesday May 11, 1831. Last evening Uncle Smart came very unexpectedly to us. I was preparing to go down today. Not a great abundance of news. There is a revival in Somersworth now. Uncle has. shared in its happy effects. 
Thursday May 12, 1831. A very warm, sultry day but considerable south wind in the latter part of the day. Rode over to Uncle Crane's with Uncle Smart. All well, four and twenty relations visiting here this afternoon. Went over the factory. 'Tis a fine b[u]ilt establishment and is nearly in complete op[p]eration. 
Friday May 13,1831. Fine weather. Came back this forenoon. 
Saturday May 14, 1831. Uncle Smart started for Somersworth this morning. Fine day. 
Sunday May 15,1831. Fisk, Fellows and I walked over to Centre School House with the design of going to meeting but when we came there we found there was none. Then off we went, through the woods to the North Meeting House to see if we could find a meeting and when we came there met with the same luck. After resting us a short time we went home very tired and dissatisfied with our 10 miles walk, under a very hot sun 
through bushes and briers. 
. Monday May 16,1831. I hardly know what to do about going to College next fall. Sometimes I think I shant till a year from that time, then again I think I shall. Sent a letter to Waterville. 
1S3 
Tuesday May 17,1831. Rainy all day. We have had an abundance of rain this spring, everything looks flourishing. Wednesday May 18, 1831. Rainy. Thursday May 19, 1831. Rainy. Friday May 20, 1831. Rainy. 
Saturday May 21, 1831. Rainy. Sunday May 22,1831. Went to Bear Hill to meeting. Mr. Stickney preached his farewell sermon "nothing binding." Shower in the P.M. 
Monday May 23,1831. Fine pleasant day. Tuesday May 24,1831. Rainy. Wednesday May 25,1831. Fine day. F[isk] and Fellows had some New Rum 
today from Portsmouth and so tonight we had a tremendous fight caused by 11Steam, 11 otherwise N[ew] R[um]. Seven or 8 drunken fellows pounded each other like "good ones 11 for about half an hour then went off home with 
!S4 
went off home with broken heads and banged eyes, bloody as butchers, each swore revenge, brag[g]ed and boasted like Sampsons. 
Thursday May 26, 1831. A terrible breeze this morning about the fight last night. John Lake has prosecuted Wallace, Lane and Daniel for assault and battery, and by the decision of.the court Lane was fined $2.00 and cost of court, Sweat 4 dollars and cost etc. It was pretty clearly proved that Sweat struck Lake with a weight. Lane, I think, was innocent. 
Friday May 27 ,1831. Not much a doing. I sent a letter to E. Hutchin--son on the 16th with 10 dollars in it. 
Saturday-May 28,1831. I think of going to Pittsfield Academy soon. 
Sunday !vlay 29, 1831. A remarkable warm day. Went to the North Meeting House. Mr. Swain preached and very loud too. Very fatigued. 
Monday !viay30,1831. Going to Pittsfield next week. I sent to Concord last week for a Sallust but there were none in town. 
Tuesday May 31,1831. Fisk went to Concord this forenoon and I tended store, Fellows being at Deerfield. He bought me a Sallust for a dollar and Father paid him. 
Wednesday June 1, 1831. First day of summer. Very warm and sultry. Someone attempted to burn Mr. Chesley's barn of Epsom the other night, but did not succeed. 
Thursday June 2, 1831. Very warm and uncomfortable day for Election. Many folks passed by on their way to Concord today. Shall not go, if I went should'nt take much comfort. 
Friday June 3, 1831. A most tremendous shower passed over last evening 
accompanied with continual Monday if not before.  thunder  and  lightning. Going to Pittsfield  
Saturday  June 4, 1831. Warm  uncomfor table  day.  
Pittsfield.  

Sunday June 5, 1831. Went to meeting this afternoon at the "Old South" in Chichester and after meeting got a ride to Pittsfield. Very warm. 
1S5 
Monday June 6, 1831. Went over to Doct. Blake's this morning to see Mr. Niles and found him a fine young man, a graduate of Dartmouth College. At 9, attended prayers in the Academy with 35 scholars. Shall study Sallust and G[reek] Reader at present. Pittsfield has gained very much within a few years. The factory has added much to its business and activity. 
Tuesday June 7, 1831. Extremely hot today. Very barren of anything interesting to write. 'Twould be well to give up my diary on that score. Like the school pretty well. Tis nothing more than common, I think. Mr. Niles having graduated last year cannot be expected to be a very accomplished teacher. 
Wednesday, June 8, 1831. I was called to go home today by Josiah Lake to attend another court. Didnt like it very well. Very warm. It is ridiculous to see the disturbance which that quarrel has created. This is the second court that has arisen from it and another is on foot. Sweet prosecuted Williams, John and Josiah Lake for assault and battery. Williams and Josiah were acquit[t]ed but John was fined 1 dollar and costs of court. 
Thursday June 9, 1831. Very warm day. Didnt get a ride over to Pittsfield till the afternoon. Rode over with a bread ped[d]ler. Farmers are very busy now hilling corn. 
Friday June 10, 1831. Remarkable warm day. Rescited in Greek this afternoon. 
Saturday June 11, 1831. Nothing of great consequence. 
Sunday June 12, 1831. Warm day. Went to the Baptist Meeting House situated on the road leading to Northwood and about 1/2 mile from the factory. It is a plain, 1-story wooden building finished in a neat and cheap manner. I like Mr. Niles very well. He supplies the place of Mr. Clark. Attendance was not so general as I should have supposed, considering this is the only meeting in the village. I was deprived of the 3d meeting by a shower. 
Monday June 13, 1831. I study but very little, resciting 2 pages of Greek and a page of Latin a day. Went fishing last Saturday night and caught but few fish. 
Tuesday June 14, 1831. Moderate, not so excessively warm as it was some days ago. We continue to have abundance of rain now, almost every day brings a shower. The prospects of the farmer were never brighter than 
!S6 
now. It is conjectured that hay will not "bring" more than 4 dollars a ton. 
Chichester Wednesday June 15, 1831. Last night I was taken again with my old disorder together with a very disagreeable feeling or dull kind of pain in my left side. I was forced to get up and walk the floor and 1twas late before I got to sleep. Today I have the same grumbling in my side which at times proceeds to my shoulder blade and makes it ache. I know that something is out of order and has been for some time. Rode home this morning with Mr. Sangmaid and think I shall not go over any more at present. 
Thursday June 16, 1831. Rainy all day. Esqr. Whittle was here last night, and he wanted me to go to Pittsfield today and see Mrs. Cram on some business which he is transacting for her. Went over today. 
Friday June 17, 1831. Fair weather today. Cram and his wife came over today to settle some accounts with Mr. Drake but did not succeed. My side and shoulder continue to tfouble me. M9ther thinks 1tis the "liver complaint." 
Saturday June 18, 1831. Father, Cram and I went to Loudon today to attend a court there but found it was continued. So our journey was made for nothing. These little law suits on hateful things, blisters, moths, they draw and 11 knaw" [gnaw] out the life of those who use them. Esqr. Whittle has regained his health, I believe. 
Sunday June 19, 1831. No meeting within reach today. Religion is very scarce now about here. Years have passed away since this was visited by a shower of divine Grace. The Lords vineyard is so neglected that it [is] full of tares and almost become extinct. Epsom has become as bad or worse than this town, a place for incendiaries, and filled with broils. So long as vital religion, a regard for 11holy things," is so little maintained, reformation is hopeless, and our civilization and an enlightened State will be 50 years behind our more fortunate neighbours. 
Monday June 20, 1831. My shoulder is much better [than] it was, but still my hopes and courage are low. I take very little comfort except in the hope that I shall soon get better so as to study again, or in the hope of a glorious immortality. Supporting thought, what would I take for it? Support through life and in death? Nothing. Worlds would be no inducement to give away my support for a moment. 
tsr 
Tuesday June 21, 1831. The Legislature of our State is now in session. It commenced on the 1st of June and has been ever since doing nothing. It ought to rejoice the people of the state that they have done nothing worse than they done, considering their want of ju[dge]ment. No former Legislature was ever so inefficient in its ruling party. 
Wednesday June 22, 1831. 0 'tis a most dragging uneasy life to have nothing to do or to occupy a vacant mind. I try this, then that, only to wear away dull time which "hangs heavily upon my hands." I shall not go to Pittsfield to school any more at present; my health is too poor. 
Thursday June 25, 1831. 11Ditto" I might-write all along if I pleased. I never was so dissatisfied with any place in my life as with Chichester, the place of my nativity. Everyone appears to be my enemy. When here I am a misanthrope. 0 hump! I wish I was 500 miles from old Chichester. 
Friday June 24, 1831. Apples are scarce this year. Very wet yet. 
Saturday June 25, 1831. I have been fishing a number of times but find the river almost destitute of fish owing probably to the dams &c. 
Sunday June 26, 1831. All things around us now look thriving and call for our gratitude and thanksgiving to God for his bountiful Provi-dence. Notwithstanding all our blessings and privileges, few are the hearts which spontaneously rise to the Giver of all good and perfect gifts. 
Monday June 27,1831. 
Colombia, Colombia, the home of the brave The freemans abode, the patriots grave. Thy valour is sung, thy glory is known, Wherever the sun in his splendor has shone. 
Tuesday June 28, 1831. Mary Ann being unwell came home from Hopkinton about a week before I came from Pittsfield. It's doubtful whether she goes back. My side does not trouble me so much as at first, but still it does not seem right yet. I hope for the best. 
Wednesday June 29, 1831. If we do not have less rain, "hay weather" will be scarce this year. Fisk and Fellows have bought a waggon of Hopkinson 

who was lately up and a horse of Abraham Stangran for SO dollars. H's health is tmproving fast now. Father thinks of buying a horse soon if he can get one cheap. 
Thursday June 30, 1831. The last of another month, a fleeting month, composing with others the whole life of man. 
Friday July 1, 1831. Mr. Chesley's house (John) of Epsom was burnt the other night while the family were in bed, the work of an incendiary. His barn had been set on fire twice before within a few weeks. This is a melancholy proof of a malicious and vill[ai]nous disposition on the part of some enemy. He has many, I am told, in Epsom, but no one in particular is charged with it because many are suspected and without truth or sufficient grounds, I think, in many cases. Two or 3 of the family came nigh being burnt with the house. The gallows ought to be the punishment of such a man who, in the dead of night, will fire the house of a sleeping family. He must be a hardened wretch since he knows that by that very act he may become a murderer. I say by the deed, '"Twill out." 
Saturday July 2, 1831. Comfortable weather. 
Sunday July 3, 1831. Mr. Peabody preached. 
Monday July 4, 1831. Fine warm day. Legislature adjourned last Saturday after a session of 3 2 days. This is the 5 5th annaversary since our forefathers boldly declared these "States" free and independent, whose lives and fortunes were staked for its fulfilment and who resolved "to live free, or die." Many have gone to their "long home" and but an honored few remains, to tell their glorious deeds, to partake their country's happiness and to be their son's bright example. One signer of the Declaration of Independ[e]nce only lives, Charles Carroll; only one Major General, Lafayette; and a remnant of his brave soldiers. How must their hearts approve their former deeds! With what pleasure must they recount their services for their country when they behold the mighty fabric they have reared! Their posterity honor them and generations yet unborn will sing their valourous deeds and imitate "their bright examples." 
Tuesday July 5, 1831. Last week a fellow was shot at by those watching Cesley's premises. He fell but, instead of going to see their "game," they run the other way thinking they had killed somebody. When search was made nobody could be found but there was his track through the grass. Brave fellows they must be!! No one can be found wounded yet. There has been another great disturbance at Washington lately by Eaton and Ingham, 
1S9 
respecting Eaton's wife. E. challenged I., but he did not except (accept]. 
Wednesday July 6,1831. I talk of going to Somersworth next week on a visit. 
Thursday July 7, 1831. Lowering all day but did not rain. 
Friday July 8,1831. Folks are now much engaged in huckleberrying. 
Saturday July 9, 1831. Mary Ann and a doz. more went over on Loudon Plains huckl[l]eberrying &c. Very heavy shower this A.M. 
Sunday July 10, 1831. Weather very cool, windy. No meeting. Dull work not to have any meeting nor religious services. 
Monday July 11, 1831. Exellent weather now for hay-makers. Went to Pittsfield this morn. to get my books which I left there. All busy making hay. Fisk and I went to Epsom to see the ruins of Chesley's house. The premises look desolate. Saw Dickey and had a good talk with him. 
Tuesday July 12, 1831. Fine day. Expect to go to Somersworth tomor-row with Capt. Rowell. Fisk has gone to Portsmouth. Davis and Chase are doing our haying. James Monroe, the venerable Ex-President of the U. S., died on the 4th of July 1831. A more singular coincidence can hardly be found in history, the death of the 3 Presidents of the U.S. --Adams, Jefferson and Monroe. 
Wednesday July 13, 1831. Very warm day. 
When the shades of night are past 
and morn salutes the eye, 
Arise my sluggish soul, make haste, 
In bed no longer lie. 
Dissappointed in going to Somersworth today, hope I shall go tomorrow. 
Somersworth. Thursday July 14, 1831. Started for Somersworth this morning with Capt. Rowell. Have a very hard seat to ride on, being a hard board with no spring. I was very fortunate in bringing a cloak and umbrella for it began to rain before we got into Durham and continued all day. I think vegitation looks no better here than in Chichester. Found Uncle's folks well. 
160 
Friday July 15, 1831. Kept very snug at home. I bore riding much better than I expected, considering the violence of the exercise. The waggon was an old go-cart of a thing without springs or seat, rickety and dirty. The day was very rainy and uncomfortable. Upon the whole I had a pretty comical time. Somersworth has wonderfully improved since I was last here. It is very wonderfull when we think that a few years ago it [had] only one house and now 2 thousand inhabitants or more gaining their livelihood wholly from manufacturing and trade. 
Saturday July 16, 1831. Pride is a reigning principle in the heart from the beggar to the purse-proud capitalist; and there are as many kinds as sources from which it rises. It can hardly be said with truth,, I think, that all pride is reprehensible, for that which prompts to a virtuous action is good, but that of dress or superiority inherent in dandies and other vermin is above all to be contemned. Little pam-papered, insipid pup[p] ies only fit for a pup[p]et show, destitute of all mal[?] or mental exellences, and filled with frivolity and vice! 
Almost every village of our country is cursed with some of them. 
Sunday July 17, 1831. Two churches are established in this place, Methodist and Congregationalist. I attend[ed] the latter and was highly interested both with the preacher and music. Mr. Twining is a very fine man and a clear preacher, a graduate of Yale College. The society has procured a very pretty organ but have not yet a good performer. The revival has somewhat subsided now, which before has been very promising. 
Monday July 18, 1831. Went to Doct. Martin's. He is going to cure me if he can and has began giving pills. Manufacturing is the life of this place without which its flourishing appearance would disappear. 75,000 yds of cloth is manufactured a week. Trade is good and many houses are building in different parts. 
Tuesday July 19, 1831. Rain comes now almost as often as every 3d day. Crops are good. 'Tis very amusing to see the girls and men pour from the factories at bell time; like bees from the hive they swarm forth to their boarding houses. 
Wednesday July 20, 1831. Early rising is nature's restorative and gives health and pleasure. I do not as an[y] sensible [person?] arise as early as I should and as my health requires. 
Thursday July 21, 1831. Went to Mr. Howard's in Bridge St. A fine bridge was erected a year or 2 ago which the water swept away where the present bridge now stands. It is constructed on an improved plan and can support itself without the aid of peers [piers]. 
Friday July 22, 1831. Visited Capt. James Martin's [wife?] in Orange St. this afternoon. She has had a young son since I was last down and appears to be very proud of her little 11reinforcement. 11 Capt is now a Depy. Sheriff. 
Saturday  July 23, 1831. Doct. is now at work  in earnest  upon  me  
giving pills and drawing  blisters. I can bear any opperation  better  than the  
pain.  

Sunday July 24, 1831. Went to hear Mr. Twining, fine preacher, is liked better and better. 
Monday July 25, 1831. Go to the Dr's every day to get advice. 
Tuesday July 26, 1831. My side, being blistered, is very sore and troublesome but I hope it will be beneficial in removing the pain. 
Wednesday July 27, 1831. James Cowan still studies with the Doct. Thinks he will make a skilful physician. 
Thursday July 28, 1831. Aunts Davis and Sanborn were down on a visit this week. 
Friday July 29, 1831. Shall not go home till next week, I think. To occupy time I have been reading some. Mr. Stevens has a small Circulating Library from which I selected a book. I just finish[ed] Scott's Waverly, which is the first of his writings I ever read. He is an admirable writer. His style is not that dull, insipid stuff which characterizes the writings of most of our novelists, but it seems to be native and that which will not suffer by twice reading. He shows the manners of the antient Scots and transports the reader back 2 00 years. 
Saturday July 30, 1831. Abigail Garland has been here from Pittsfield visiting so that, take us all together, Uncle has had as much visiting as he would like for the present. 
Sunday July 31, 1831. Mr. Twining sprinkled 8 and baptised 3 per-sons today. 
1b2 
Monday August 1, 1831. Aunt Smart has gone to Wells Beach with Emily Ann and thinks of being gone a week. Abigail Garland keeps house. She was taken sick this afternoon. 
Tuesday August 2, 1831. Abigail has been very sick all day. Uncle had to get another girl. What luck! 
Wednesday August 3, 1831. Aunt came home today with Emily Ann sick. She is in a peck of trouble now and very fretful. 
Thursday August 4, 1831. We have a plenty of rain all along. Mr. Upham of Portsmouth cow-skinned Mr. Senator Hill this week at Exeter. No one can say but what this is a disgraceful and cowardly attack although there is no doubt but what Mr. Hill deserved it. 
Upham has lowered himself much in the eyes of the public and injured the cause of his own party. I have no doubt of his being a smuggler. He has withdrawn his suit from court and paid costs. No jury could ever agree upon the case. Going home tomorrow. Doct. was very . liberal to me, he has been doctoring me 3 [ed. actually 2] weeks and charged me nothing. I am under a debt of gratitude to him. 
Friday August 5, 1831. Started in stage for Chichester. After taking the Concord line there was no one in stage besides myself except a young lady 
named Charlotte, who lives at Mrs. Evan's in Concord. I was formerly acquainted with her at Concord. Portsmouth turnpike is the dullest road I ever travelled in my life. Took dinner at North-wood. 
Chichester SaturdayAugust 6, 1831. Haying is amazingly delayed on account of bad weather. 
Sunday August 7, 1831. Sunday is a very wearisome day by reason of no meetings. 
Monday August 8, 1831. Father is no miller, a situation which he by no means likes. It is very hard, I think, that a man cannot work at his trade unmolested by reason of debt but must be taken and dragged to prison where they cannot pay but contracts debt. For 2 years Father has been trying to bring his creditors to a settlement, but all endeavours have been useless with a few, who are determined to distress him to the utmost. "Tis 
a pity" that Justice cannot be rendered. Tuesday August 9, 1831. It is now the busiest part of haying. I am told 
that hay will not be so good by much as it was last year, so much wet weather has made it _rather spongy or soaked with water. A proper degree of wet and dry weather is necessary for all the productions of nature and when a greater proportion of either is experienced things must suffer. Wet has predominated this year and many productions have been injured, as wheat and rye in quantity, while others as hay, corn and potatoes have overplus[s]ed over other years while they are much decreased in quality. Such, I think, is the case. 
Wednesday August 10, 1831. The pain in my side is not wholly cured but is much better than when I went to Somersworth. 
Thursday August 11, 1831. I am very anxious to pursue my studies but I am afraid that I shall not be able at present, if at all. 
Friday August 12, 1831. Rode down to Epsom to see Dickey horse--back and it almost killed me. Dickey is Rusticus now but is going to [be] studying soon at New Hampton. In the winter he will keep school and enter college in the spring, he tells me. His home is the picture of rural life, situated among the mountains on a fertile peice of land made so by the efforts of their industry. 
Saturday August 13, 1831. The Poles who have thus far met with good success in their unequal struggle are still nobly contending for liberty. Every American can well sympathize with them and wish them success if debar[r]ed from giving them farther aid. 'Tis a good cause and I hope will prosper. 
Sunday August 14, 1831. Religion is at a low ebb in this town and I have got on a level with others. How deplorable it is to see Christians degenerating so as they do and seeking the beggarly elements of this world. 
Monday August 15,1831. Rainy. I talk some of going to Newburyport with a load of butter and oats if I can buy some butter. I [am] almost afraid to run the risk. 
Tuesday August 16, 1831. Hazy. Went to Abraham Marden's auction in Epsom. It is hard to see all that a man has taken and sold and him left destitute but so it is and must be so, I suppose. While the sheriff was selling, another writ was served on him and the poor man was in a "peck of trouble." I really pitied him while his wife but a few days before run away from him, and refused to come back. 
Wednesday August 17,1831. Bought [from] Nathl. Leavey 374 pds. butter at 10 cts. and Fellows and I started for Newburyport tonight. I have been sick all day with a sour stomack but I hardly ever under-went more than did tonight with pain. I was sore all over, felt as though I had been pounded. I have Capt. Shaw's horse. I would have given my load if I could have been at home again. At light we were down in Raymond. 
Thursday August 18, 1831. Arrived in N-port about 11 o'clock and staid in market all day but could not sell the butter at no price. Got 42 cts. for oats. This is the poorest looking place I ever saw. Wharves deserted and store houses empty and rotting down through neglect. N-port has been going down for many years and I think will continue for all that I would do for them. There never was a finer situation for a handsome town if laid out well, but sufficient care was not used. I couldnt either sell [or] give my butter away but had to leave it with Hopkinson for sale. Merchants in general, instead of being accomadating and pleasant, are stiff and morose, but they very much "miss it," a pleasant disposition only suits those who buy. 
Friday August 19, 1831. Arrived at home by way of Exeter and Nottingham. It is a very hilly road after leaving Epping. Mr. Lane and Osgood are at work repairing the mill. 
Saturday August 20, 1831. Paid Mr. Nott. Leavey $33.40 in part for my butter. I think that my first speculation has turned out rather small. I shall probably lose a number of dollars on it. So it happens that every setting out in life is "nipped" at first to learn him how to do in afterlife. 
Sunday August 21,1831. Dull day to me. 
Monday August 22, 1831. I shall go to N-port again in a short time. 
Tuesday August 23 ,1831. My health is pretty good except a pain in my right side. Doct. Hill gave me some flies to draw a blister with. 
Wednesday August 24, 1831. Applied the flies to my side and passed a very tedious day. Nothing has so much relieved me as blisters and therefore I have great faith in the efficacy of them in cases of pain. Doct. thinks that the pain in my side is not caused by the liver complaint but some other disease. 
Thursday August 25, 1831. I have often wished that I had never been 

born in Chichester. I hate the name with perfect hatred. Some respectable men live here, it is true, but the majority is hawkers or dishonest men, enemies to all good society and improvement in civilisation. It is a singular fact that ever since I have come to years of understanding I have chosen some abode rather than my native home in Chichester. Even home does not seem sweet when situated here. 
Friday August 26, 1831. I saw Collins when he came from N. Hampton and he told me he thought of going to Dartmouth College. I wish I could go with him to that old seat of learning and literature but Providence so orders that I shall not at present. I doubt very much whether my health will ever be so good as it has been. 
Saturday August 27, 1831. George Moore has been sick for nearly a year with the "Black Jaundice." I think it doubtful if he lives long without get cured. Like many other folks he has neglected medical aid too long, till now he is nearly past recovery. He has a dreadful cough. 
Sunday August 28, 1831. I feel pretty well now but still I am not well and hav(n]t been sinceI was first taken sick in Jan[uar]y. I still hope to regain my health again soon. 
Monday August 29, 1831. How can a person live happy in this world without a preparation for the next? The dread realities, futurity, must sometimes take hold of them with force. This life would not be worth living for me without religion. It smooths all the asperities of life and brings us to [at] the close of it joy unspeakable. 
Tuesday August 30, 1831. It is painful to see a young man setting out in life, neglecting his business and getting himself involved in debt. It often causes intemperance and the ruin of a promising family. I was led to these remarks from what I have lately seen in a certain neighbor. In other respects than neglect of his own business I cannot say but what he is a worthy man, but it is certainly to be feared he will injure himself greatly. 
Wednesday August 31, 1831. What a dull uninteresting life I lead here! No meetings, schools, society nor "no nothing." We only stay here. I do hope we never shall stay here another year. I could not, I think. 
Thursday September 1, 1831, The first day of autumn now begins, the most fit and solemn emblem of death when all our earthly hopes are falling like leaves from the fading trees. But although autumn is sorrowful[l] in some respects, in others it is a joyful time. The husbandman will soon collect his rich harvest into his barns, rejoicing in the God of nature who has thus blest him with abundance. 
Friday September 2, 1831. My diary is hardly worth keeping now but I hope it will be more interesting 6 months hence. If nothing happens to the contrary, we hope to be in N. Y. State next spring. Father cannot live here, he is so plagued and har[r]assed [by] dis-satisfied creditors. 
Saturday September 3, 1831. I have been reading the travels of John Russell through Germany in 1820, 1821 and 1822. I think it is a well written and interesting book of the manners and customs of Germans. No books amuse me more [than] the travels of distinguished men through the "Old Countries" with their remarks and opinions. 
Sunday September 4, 1831. I dread to have the end of the week come here when we cannot begin the next with worship to God. 
Monday September 5, 1831. 0 Dear what a dull monotonous day. I commit much sin which I otherwise should not if we had meetings. 
Tuesday September 6, 1831. We have gathered our oats but find them very poor. They are so everywhere this year. The weather has been too wet, I suppose. 
Wednesday September 7, 1831. Started early this morning for N[ewbury] port with a load of oats. I was some cold in the morning but afterwards I had a very comfortable day to ride. Crops down along, I think, look as well if not better than up country. Corn is extr[a]y, potatoes not so good. Apples none. There is nothing remarkable in the general aspect of the country, but had as well and good farms &c. interspersed all the way between here and N' Port. I drove at the rate of 4 miles an hour and went by the way of Nottingham, Exeter and Hampton Falls. The Newburyport bridge over the Merrimack was the greatest curiosity that I saw while gone. It is supported by chains and has 3 stone peers, I think. It is a beautiful bridge and adds very much to N-Port both in beauty and con-venience. The road from Exeter to N'port is remarkably smooth and level. 
Newburyport Thursday September 8, 1831. Sold my oats this morning for 1 1/3 cts. pr lb and my butter averaged about 9 cts a lb. This afternoon I went down to Plumb [Plum] Island in the rain. It is a long, barren island running about 9 miles parralel with the coast, beginning on the south side of the mouth of Merrimack river. The island is com posed of banks of sand and varies in width from 1/2 to 1 mile. In a bright, clear day the sand banks present a novel sight at the distance of a few miles. I was told the island was fast washing away from the force of the waves and that in time it would be completely gone. 
The only vegitation that is seen is the bush called the Plumb Island plumb bush, bearing a species of plumb like our large red cherries and ripe about the last of August. The sand plumb is ripe much sooner. It is a singular fact that these are found only on this island, the most barren place imaginable. The sand is so lo[o]se that it is with great difficulty that one can make his way along half-leg deep. Returned to town tired. 
Friday September 9, 1831. Started for home at 9 o'clock and arrived at_ home about 10 in the evening after a wearisome day's ride. I think this jaunt will close my speculation. 
Saturday September 10, 1831. Farmers now begin to gather their corn. which is as good as it is plenty this year. 
Sunday September 11, 1831. How glad I shall be if my life is spared till I can get where God is worshipped weekly, if not oftener! Poor Chichester, what will become of thee if a reformation does not take place! It may be more tolerable for Sodom and Gom[m]or[r]ah in the day [of] Judgement. I can sometimes almost fly away I wish so much to go, but it is best to wait patiently the will of God in all things. I think it doubtful whether a minister will be hired this year, the town grows poor so fast. 
Monday September 12, 1831. Samuel and George Plummers were up today to see Father on business. I think they are fine business men. 
Tuesday September 13,1831. Gathering apples today. We shall have nearly 50 bushel. Father has today given up being a miller and Messers Plummers have made Chase miller. Father and I are going to Gilmantown to muster tomorrow. 
Wednesday September 14, 1831. A description of review cannot be very 
[interesting?] to anyone in these States where they are so well known. The day was a very good one but [the] regiment was small and rather ordinary. The number of lookers-on was uncommonly small and well behaved. I think I never attended a review where everything was carried with so much decency and order. 
Thursday September 15, 1831. Rainy. Went to Epsom to see Capt. Lord, who wasnt at home, then came up to Nathl. Leaveys and paid $4.00, the balance due him [on] account. 
Friday September 16, 1831. Father is settling and getting things in readiness to be off Monday morning for New York where he intends to get work and then to send for us to follow. 
Saturday September 17, 1831. Crane came over and settled with Father today. His and Fathers accts. were equal, but Father is owing on the auction bill 71 dollars and Richamar about 100 dollars in notes. Crane is going to bring a horse from Pittsfield tomorrow night if he can for Father and carry home the waggon and hand cart. 
Sunday September 18, 1831. Did not attend meeting because there is none within reach. Crane came over tonight but could get no horse to carry Father to Epping so he let us have his and I carryed him over to Uncle Salters about 12 o clock, from thence he will take the stage for Boston. I hated to part with him very much but I hope to see him again in a few months in better circumstances if Providence permits. Got home about 2 o'clock tired, cold and sleepy. Uncle C. took the waggon and handcart and went home and I to bed. 
Monday September 19, 1831. People pretty still about Father today and dont suspect much, I think, but 'twill not long last, there will be a terrible surmising and whispering before long. If he gets one day the start of them, I hope Chichester will not see him this three years again. He has been abominably injured by this town although he has done more for it than any other man in town, but he will be abused by them no more if his health is good. This awfulness is at an end here and he must make new aquaintances in a strange land. 
September 20, 1831. My health is now a little better, I think. The pains in my sides are mostly removed and a general debility seems to be my greatest sickness. My gratitude ought to be drawn out to God that it is as good as it is, while thousands by day and by night are called to "people the nations of the dead." I never shall receive my deserts for sin in this world, and by the Grace of God and the Blood of Christ I hope not to in another. It must be a terrible thing to fall into the hands of an offended God. He has told us that his long forbearance will not always be exercised towards the children of men. 
Wednesday September 21, 1831 . The devastation of a hurricane or the 
raging of a tempest is in no wise to be compared to the ruinous effects of private slander. I have seen it destroy the peace of whole neighbourhoods and raze the character of the most amiable to a level with the vilest sinner. Where there is no peace, it is neccessarily implied that there must be war although it may be only a 11war of words." In what differs the 11war of conquest" and the "war of words" as to calamities? The former, 'tis true, kills the body, the most unimportant part of a man, while the latter kills the character, and tarnishes the high-sounding fame of its devoted victims. I had as l[ie]f not be as to be a by-word and a hissing in society. But in this differs the war of conquest and the war of words: that mans character which stands the test of slander and detraction grows brighter. 
Thursday September 22, 1831. George Moore was taken very sick last Sunday night, and since then his life has been d[e]spaired of from day to day. Poor man, he is going as fast as an incurable disease will carry him. He has been considerable concerned for himself since he was taken sick, and 'tis to be hoped he will accept of the terms proffered [in?] mercy. How little did he think this would be his situation a few months ago. 
Friday September 23, 1831. I am very impatient for the time to come when we shall follow Father to some place of abode where we shall have 
"none to molest us and make us afraid." 
Saturday September 24, 1831 . Mr. Moore still continues very sick, ex.pecting every day to be his last. How solemn must be his situation now on the verge of the grave and just launching into a boundless eternity with all its dreadful realities. 
Sunday September 25, 1831. It is not a small thing to die and few can meet it with composure. The Christian alone has joys in view of death unspeakable, joys substantial, and a well-grounded [hope?] which can never be removed. Who would not be a Xn? 
Monday September 26, 1831. Cold weather is fast creeping on, frosts are more frequent and cold and rugged winter will soon set in. It is a time of general decay and all nature seems to be returning to her mother earth. It is a time too of general joy for the rich supply of agricultural productions which a bountiful Providence has heaped upon the husbandman. 
Tuesday September 27, 1831. Crane and I went to Concord and Loudon on some business. Esq. Patten has Whittles papers. Heard at the same time of the melancholy death of Col. Robert Ambrose in Boston by being thrown from his carriage. It creates quite a sensation in C[hichester]. 
1rO 
Wednesday September 28, 1831. Pride and Poverty together make terrible work. 
Thursday September 29, 1831. This morning at 4 o'clock Mr. Moore died, without a struggle or groan. Before his death he seemed calm and resigned to the will of God, willing either to live or die. He warned all not to do as he had done in life to neglect his Bible, meetings and religion but to attend to all these while in health. I think we have reason to believe that he exchanged this world for a better. He is to be buried tomorrow. 
Capt. Edmunds called his company out here this afternoon. I got a certificate of Dr. Abbot last week for one year. 
Friday September 30, 1831. Mr. Moore was buried this afternoon. A considerable number of persons assembled and attentively listened to i discourse by Elder Dyer. "'Tis better to go to the house of mourning than to the house of boasting for the right[e]ous will lay it to heart." While the humble preparations are making to bury the poor man, how good it is to . contemplate his virtues while living. No splendid equipages, no g[au]dy trappings, nor regal pomp are seen as at the funeral obsequies of the great and noble of the earth. He is consigned to the earth by his lamenting friends, there to lay "alike unknowing and unknown," till called at the last Great Day to recive his reward. 
Saturday October l, 1831. This is the first day of another month, the time of the falling of leaves and the decay of vegitable nature. The time which strongly reminds of death who is destroying his thousands daily. Poor George fell like a plant nipped by autumnal frosts; just as he began to prepare for long life, he died, a solemn example to others of what they may be. 0 may the wicked lay it to heart and take a saving warning. 
Sunday October 2, 1831. Oh how wearisome time wears away! No meetings. I would not live here for the best farm in town. I cannot live content nor will not and I think I ought not in such a deplorable place. 
Monday October 3, 1831. My health, I think, is much improved, having little pain and being a little stronger. It is certainly gratifying to me to [be] so well as I am permitted to be. I hope by care to regain my health entirely. 
Tuesday October 4, 1831. The Messrs. Plumers have advertised this property for sale on the 9th of Nov. at auction if not sold before. 
l71 
Wednesday October 5, 1831. Rainy all day. Muster at Concord, but rather bad day. รก 
Thursday October 6,1831. Fine day for muster at Loudon. I rode up with Green. All things went on in fine order. 
Friday October 7, 1831. Very fine day. Rode down to Epsom with Dea[con] Tilton to muster. They made a fine appearance. More spectators than soldiers. Saw a great many wonders and sights as is always seen at a muster. 
Saturday October 8, 1831. Cool and windy. Winter is coming very fast. 
Sunday October 9, 1831. Very rainy and windy. No meeting. 
Monday October 10, 1831. Very rainy and windy. Chilly. Nothing remarkable nowadays. 
Tuesday October 11, 1831. Rainy still and cool. The "Pine Ground" looks very desolate. Not much business doing. I would'nt live here long for the whole [world?]. 
Wednesday October 12, 1831. It is very cold, raw weather now; think it will freeze a little tonight. Cattle Show to Pembroke today and tomorrow. Think of going to Hopkinton tomorrow if can get a horse on business. 
Hopkinton Thursday October 13, 1831. A very fine pleasant day. Hired William Bickford's horse and F & F's waggon and went to Hopkinton. Saw Mr. Evan ofN[ew] H[ampton] at Concord, told me the school never was so pleasant and large before, there being above 200 students. What was most interesting was that a revival of religion was now in the Institution and town. About 30 have become hopefully pious. Dined at Southwick's. Find all the rivers much swollen by reason of the recent rains. 
From Hopkinton Village I went towards Warner 5 miles to see Mr. Folsom, but after all my trouble didnt find him at home. Vexation! Turned about to the village again and staid at Perkins' tavern. Very accomadating folks, I think. That's the beauty of an Inn. Fine evening, such as beaux and belles like to saunter in and talk nonsense. Fine Episcopal Chapel here built of unhammered stone from the quar[r]y, with long Gothic windows and doors. Such mode of building has a fine effect, especially in churches. Very becoming, I think. Sickly with the typhus fever now. Dr. Lernerd died a few days ago. รก 
l?l 
Chichester Friday October 14, 1831. Went to Deacon Baileys and paid him $5.30 and took what things we left with him. Money goes very hard from me when it comes so hard, must spend some though. Coming home, my old harness broke riding down hill very fast but I stopped the horse at the foot and set about mending it. I dislike very much such old rigging. If there had been a storm, must have been shipwrecked. I think I was in imminent danger of being stove. Tarryed in C[oncord] a few hours and visited my friends. Terrible windy day and cool withal. 
Saturday October 15, 1831. Very pleasant day. Fisk started for Boston this morning. Burnet Libbey had had all his property attached by his creditor and [at] last he went away for Mass. to get work. His wife is going to Pittsfield. She is to be pitied, having 3 children to support. Being an very ingenious and experienced workman, able to earn 40 dollars a month, he is rather unsteady and a spendthrift. It is a hard thing to get money but a greater to keep and spend it prudently. Crane came over and settled with David M. Carpenter for an account of Father's, being cash, by giving his note of SOdollars and for damage and costs, thereby stopping a scire facias which was got out against him. Carpenter agreed to wait a year and make some reduction on the face of the note. The original debt was 44 dollars. Mr. Stephen Rand's wife died today of the consumption. 
Sunday October 16, 1831. Very pleasant day and withal quite warm in middle of the day. No public worship in town. veรกxation of spirit and weariness of the flesh. This must be a town devoted to the severe displeasure of God ere long if reform in morals and religion takes not place by the great exertions of his followers. Degraded must be the minds that can grovel in contentment when vice and irreligion stalks in state among us. 
Monday October 17,1831, Moderate weather. Making a diary interesting in such a dreary place as this is impossible unless the mind is better with subjects of the sentimental than mine. Discontent naturally de[p]presses and incapacitates the mind for expansion into noble and comprehensive views of things which contentment would otherwise aid. Not unfrequently I sit a quarter of an hour or more in deep thought after a subject of remark but almost invariably my mind. is so dull that, after ransacking every nook and corner of my brain, I am still empty. I long to be studying.to be where Science and Literature dwell and to climb the rugged path with others. God grant me health. 
173 
Tuesday October 18, 1831. Were awakened last night by Uncle Salter who came to tell us that Father had come to his house and wanted to see us. Was much supprised, not very well, because I had rather he would [have] kept out. of the way. After half a day's walk round town I found a horse and waggon. Father is well and has been since he went away. Fixed his place of residence at Schenectady where there is an exellent college. My greatest care is for his safety, which I fear is endangered. Rapacious creditors are now ready to jail him and deprive him alike of liberty and the means of payment. With health and liberty in five years he could pay them. 
Epsom Wednesday October 19, 1831. Today Father went home afoot before we started, to prevent suspicion that we had seen him. 
Thursday October 20, 1831. The "Pine Ground" remains very uninteresting yet. Fisk went to Boston Saturday. Our neighbors geese and turkeys plague us so that I often wish them dead. Unmerciful men! They must think our patience as exemplary as Job's. 
Friday October 21, 1831. Mother has gone to Pittsfield on a visit and Father to "Loudon mills" on business. Reading Scott's Napoleon. He is undoubtedly one of the best authors living both in chast[e]ness and perspicuity of style. His writings strongly remind me [ofl those of Cicero who "spins out" such lengthy and eloquent sentences as if his mind was an inex[h]austible fountain of noble ideas. One page of such authors as Scott, Milton and Shakespeare and some others are held in higher estimation by me than volumes of that vile common place Stuff which we find in most of our every day writings. 9/lOths of our periodicals serve in no other way to effect the rise of literature and perfection of our language than to lower and depress them, materi-ally--by the too frequent use of local phrases, and witticisms which flow from the empty brains of vain and unlettered editors. Such was the origin of the decline [ot] learning in both Greece and Rome --when, instead of following the old track of classic language which Homer and other eminent authors used, they introduced strange and useless inovations through vain and ignorant abasers. 
Saturday October22, 1831. Sky overcast all day. 
Sunday October 23, 1831. Very pleasant fine day. We have had something new today --preaching by Mr. Longley, which is very acceptable even if it is not the best. He appears not to be a very gifted man but rather below the mediocrity in talents and spirit, of which the last mentioned virtue general[l]y decides one's claim to a powerful and effectual preacher. "They say" and I hope, with some truth, that Capt. Emery had made prof[fJessions of a "change of heart." I cannot vouch for the veracityof the assertion although his looks and conversation seem to manifest a real difference in his disposition. 

Monday October 24, 1831. Very cloudy threatening rain in the A.M. but in the P.M. the threat was put in force by a pouring rain. Father has gone to Loudon to do a little job there for Mr. Clough. Crane came over in a great bluster today and rather petulant because father is not at home. What trouble we are in! Hope we shall live to get a peaceable habitation. Fisk got home today from Boston where he had his horse stolen from the stable. Cleared away this evening with bright stars and moonlight. 
I never before formed any true conception of the horrors of the French Revolution, when the base multitude and their still baser leaders, held by neither laws nor by the dictates of reason, were hurried to the most infamous crimes in the sacred name of liberty by enthusiastic patriotism! It is a subject to which the pen of Scott only can do justice and in truth he does handle it with a masterly hc:,tnd. Well would it be for the honor of France if those scenes could be obliter[e]ated and an impenetrable cloud rest on that space of her national existence. One of the most atrocious deeds of that dark period was the execution of the unfortunate Louis and and his family. Generous and lenient almost to a fault, he lived only for his people under the most cruel treatment; being more able to withstand the tide of misfortune setting against him with magnanimity, than to establish his own power by counter-revolutionary movements. But it seemed as though his fortune was wholly turned against him, for while he endeavoured to fulfil the demands of the people and con.ciliate their favour, his best measures were unsatisfactory. In fact, he was as deficient in judgement and spirit as he was eminent for levity and good intentions, which 2 failings cost him his life. 
Tuesday October 25, 1831. Comfortable day. 
Wednesday October 26, 1831. Moderate weather Very little busied today about anything. Time moves slowly and wearisomely along. I am well aware of the sin of unreconciliation to the lot and pluck [plight?] Providence has assigned me and that contentment is the essence of life, but my mind is so fully set against Chichester that no consideration can conquer my dislike. I would like it if I could, I would be content if I could. I would revere and love the place of my birth if I could, but then the injuries and misfortunes of my father rise up before me and forbid it, not that I think him wholly free from censure but that others are more 

blam[e]able. George Porter came from C[oncord] to get me to stay in his store when he goes to Boston. Conclude to go tomorrow. 
Concord Thursday October 27, 1831. Driving rain all day. Rode to Concord with Mr. Wm. Lake. G. Porter is going tomorrow. 
Friday October 28, 1831. Moderate but some cool. George started in the stage this morning for Boston. Good day to ride. Very little else to do than 
to sit in store. 
Saturday October 29, 1831. Pretty cool day. Sleep at Col. Kents store with Harrison Rolfe. Board at Mr. Breed's, like [it] pretty well. 
Sunday October 30, 1831. Very cool day. Went to the Unitarian meeting. A stranger preached in the forenoon from Charleston. Fine orator but still the essence of true religion seemed to be wanting when his sermon was. attentively heard. 
Monday October 31, 1831. Crockery business is very poor, I think, but it may be better sometime hence. Col. Kent's folks are pretty well except 
John. 
Tuesday November 1, 1831. Nothing to do. 
Wednesday November 2, 1831. Smoke cigars, eat apples and do nothing. 
Thursday November 3, 1831. Some men are sifted though a sieve, others through a ladder. 
Friday November 4, 1831. Folks sit long at table, dont like it very well. 
Saturday November 5, 1831. Father came over yesterday on his way for Canada to settle with Small. Benj. Towle sued the execution and took him to jail but he got bail for 1 week. Trouble upon trouble. Hope [we?] shall get through. 
Sunday November 6, 1831. Went to hear Mr. Freeman at the Baptist's. Liked quite well. Three young persons were baptised in the morning at Horseshoe Pond with very appropriate and solemn ceremonies. In the afternoon the Lords Supper was celebrated and 4 were admitted members of the church. The evening was devoted to a prayer meeting. A new Methodist meeting house is nearly finished, now 4 [churches?] with[in] the limits of the village. Mr. Thomas and Bouton both received new members to their respective churches. 
Monday November 7, 1831. I expected George at home Saturday but he did not come till tonight. Col. Kent came Saturday. He had good luck and bo[ugh]t a large lot of goods. 
Chichester Tuesday November 8, 1831. Went home with Mr. Berry. Very cool and windy day. 
Wednesday November 9, 1831. Not many purchasers assembled to buy the premises. The sale was dull and only the house and what was on that side of the road was sold. Price 11,000 dollars, to Enock Butler of Deerfield. Adjourned to Dec 7. 
Thursday November 10, 1831. Father returned from Canada today. Met with good success, paid 45 dollars, thinks of going to N. York soon. Settled with the Plumers. Mother has signed the deed. 
Friday November 11, 1831. Rainy. 
Saturday November 12. 1831. Nothing remarkable except that folks are fishing for Father but cant catch him. Hope he'll get clear. 
Sunday November 13,1831. The effects of the protracted meeting is very visible. Numbers have become converts to the Christian religion and other are serious. It is much needed here. 
Monday November 14, 1831. I am still in old Chichester--hope [I] shall never get in a worse, ain't much afraid of it. Father started tonight with Chase. Got clear and safe. Good! Catch him [if] you can. He has funk[e]d them again, ha, ha .. 
Tuesday November 15, 1831. Went to Pittsfield with Berry. Saw Cram and am going to have an auction Saturday. 
Wednesday November 16, 1831. Humming cold and dreary. Rode to Epsom to carry auction bills. After enjoying the company of intel-ligent young men for years, the bookish ignorance and stupidity of our townsmen makes them but poor companions for me. No conver-sation can be held with them but rustic jokes and quaint sayings which have long ago become 
111 
rather a trite cant. I do not d[e]spise them for all this but they are to be respected for their simplicity. 
Thursday, November 17, 1831. Cold but no snow yet. 
Friday November 18, 1831. Old Ben and others are quite mad because Father outwitted them but cant help themselves. They want to have had him --all things were prepared to take [him?]. 
Saturday November 19, 1831. Auction commenced about 1 o'clock and before done sold 15 dollars worth. Adjourned till next Friday when the remainder will be sold. Things sold quite well. 
Sunday November 20, 1831. Went to hear Elder Hinds and I think him nothing extra for a preacher. The Center was quite crowded. 
Monday November 21, 1831. Not anything to do. I received a letter from Waterville not long ago. A revival has commenced there which is very encouraging. 
Tuesday November 22, 1831. Very stormy today --a kind of mixture of snow and rain. Very cold storm. 
Wednesday November 23,1831. Went to Gilmantown and Barnstead to 
settle  some  debts due father.  Seven inches [of] snow in G. I could  not  but  
notice  the  wonderful  decrease  of  business  and  the  lonesome-ness  of  
Barnstead. The houses are decaying and even now look  

like a mass of ruins. 
Thursday November 24,1831. Thanksgiving Day in this state. Were busied most of the day packing our things to move. In the afternoon we went to Grandfather's. Attended no meeting. 
Friday November 25, 1831. Commenced sale at auction again and continued till 9 o'clock. It was quite brisk. 
Saturday November 26, 1831. Moderate and pleasant weather. Smart came up this morning. Cram started off with a load of goods for Schenectady N.Y. about 2 o'clock. We have been expecting the sheriff here after our goods but we now fear but little from them. 
Sunday November 27, 1831. Snowed all day which prevented our going to meeting. Going to start on our journey for N. Y. tomorrow. Regret but little 
173 
leaving Chichester, although I expect there are many worse places than this. My expectations are not raised very high by our contemplated change, but if quietness can be secured our expectations will be fulfilled. 
Monday November 28, 1831. Cold winter day, about S inches of snow. Carried our baggage to Grandfathers last night. Went to Concord this eve in stage. Pretty good sleighing now. Staid at Hutchin's house. Saw Benj. F. Bradbrook this evening through mere accident. I went to Mr. Breed's with George Porter [for a] few minutes, when he came in to arrange a little business with him. I found it once more sweet to mingle [with] kindred spirits long since parted. We had both roomed together at New Hampton and when we parted promised a long correspondence but the old proverb "Out of sight, out of mind" seems to have taken place. We talked and walked together up and down the streets till 10 o'clock and then parted without having "told the one half" which we wished. 
For stage companion we had a young man by the name of Jacob Currier of Dover. He formerly attended school there when I did and since then has been to sea. He was formerly a very rattled brained young fellow and has not probably done much since. He was very vain and was puffed up with self-conceit, running down religion or at least what he called the Orthodox. He is now attending school at New Hampton. 
Charlestown Tuesday November 29, 1831. After a weary day's ride we are at Charlestown. The road was wholly new and generally good. To give a full account of every curiousity and place which I saw would extend my Diary beyond the bound which is proper but I will attempt to give a brief story of the prominent things. 
After a poor nights rest, I arose and took stage on runners at 6 1/2 o'clock. The first 7 1/2 miles we passed in 1 hour to Hopkinton, the sleighing being good. From H. we passed through Warner, Brad-, ford, Fishersfield, a corner of Sutton to Newport. The road lays on the bank of the Amesbury river from its mouth to its source in Fishersfield. All of the above towns are very mountainous and rocky, affording immense quantities of wood and timber which makes the princip[al] revenue. 
The snow in the towns above Concord have much more snow than their is in C[oncord]. The day was cold and squally. About noon we passed the head or tail of Sunapee Lake and saw the mountain of the same name. The country along the road here is the most romantic and novel I ever saw. Here and there little farm houses were seen peeping from among the woods. The husbandmen must work very industriously and with sweat to procure their daily bread. The Grand Sunapee is on the left and the Lake on the right as we pass along. The storm prevented our prospect very 
119 
much but yet it was grand beyond anything which I ever saw of the kind before. 
We dined at Newport, a fine little village 40 miles from Concord and 20 from Charlestown. We saw Cram at N[ewport]. The travelling being bad for waggons he had got along slowly. Newport is a fine little shire town and a place of considerable business. I passed through it so quickly that I had no time to discover the things of note. I only saw one fine buildg. which I took to be a meeting house built of brick. After a good dinner at Mr. Peittleton's we resumed our journey to Claremont 8 miles distant. It is also a flourishing village with a bank and many priveleges for waterpower which have in some measure been improved. I observed a very high mountain to the north of C[laremont] but do not recollect the name. 
Going from Claremont to Charlestown was more level but the snow very thin, which made the sleigh run extremely hard. We rode the last 10 miles in the dark and arrived at Charlestown at 8 o'clock. Mr. Hassam's stage house is very commodious but I thought by the nose of the domestics, his order was not very good. Mother and Mary Ann are very tired, having rode 60 miles the first day. 
Charlestown November 30, 1831. Weather is pretty cold. Charlestown has been the place of many an Indian and Revolutionary scene in years gone-by. Not a vestige now remains to show what it was except now and then an old cannon, and the cellar [of] som[e] block house. The hand of modern enterprise or I might almost say modern barbarity has swept the whole. What it was is now only preserved in the minds of a few Revolutionary veterans. I felt a kind of veneration and awe arise in me when I thought that I was now on the ground so re-nowned in our infant struggles for safety and independence. Beside this time, I would say, many an Indian perhaps has made his deadly air yonder beautiful. He has paddled his "frail bark" as wild and untamed as the deer he hunted. But I am growing very sentimental, a little is good for mixture. Another Gentleman and myself tried hard to get a horse and cutter to go to Bellows Falls 7 miles below, but failed. It would have been pleasing to have gone. 
At 12 o'clock we again started and passed the Connecticut to Springfield Vt. There is a flourishing village on a river where there are many exellent mill sites. The fall of water is more than ordinary. The river, being barred by lofty rocks here, bounds down a great depth over its ragged bottom almost perpendicularly, foaming and roaring like the "angry ocean." The bridge is here thrown across. 
From Charlestown to Chester, Vt. we had to ride much of the way on bare ground in a sleigh. We stopped at Chester about dark to get fresh horses and a fresh supply of passengers. Had a pretty good load now after 
180 
packing 9 inside and 1 out to ride 14 miles a cold frosty night. Road was now good and the snow deeper, which is a natural consequence as we approach the Green Mountains. After riding up hill and down, round and over the hills, and passing 16 bridges thrown across one stream ('tis a fact) with a boozled driver we stopped at Mr. [?] at Landsgrove where we warmed us and slept. But in my hurry I had almost forgot one circumstance. 
Two miles before we came to Landsgrove stopping place (when stopped, I mean) we called at a stone tavern or something to warm us where there was a "real kick up" or dance, it being [the] night before Thanksgiving. There the rustic girls and clownish fellows, some long, some short, some thick and some thin, all together were "shaving of it down" right good to all the "niggerfied" tunes which the fiddler could play. They were as blithe and as gay as larks, strutting about on "light fantastic toe" and now and then giving a good shuffle with their "thick leather pumps." _-
Landsgrove December 1, 1831. I had a good nights rest. The stage carried us again at 6. this morning. We now began to gradually ascend the mountains; it began gradually to snow likewise. I believe it always snows here. After gaining the top, which is covered with a good growth of hard timber, we ascended [descended] about 4 miles before we gained the level of the country again. Stopped at ***** and at Manchester where we breakfasted at 9 o'clock. Stores in town are shut. Here they are building a fine seminary building of marble which is obtained in large quantities and of exellent quality in all the towns around. If there could be an easier conveyance to the Hudson than by teams it would afford a great source of profit to the country. 
At M[anchester] we took a carriage and began to be most unmercifully tossed and jostled about. The travelling from this place to Arlington and in fact to Pittstown is very bad. The scenery to Cambridge is most picturatic [pictural/ picturesque?] and grand. The road sometimes traces the banks of rivers, following their mean-dering courses among vast and cloud-capped mountains, now pushed to their very brink by the base of some lofty mountain and then dug out with immense labor on [its] precipitous side. 
The ladies were very much frightened by the imagined danger of tipping into the river or down some frightful precipice. These mountains when compared to the Alps or Andes are nothing, but to an inexperienced eye they are lofty. The land after passing the Green Mountains is an exellent soil, yielding abundantly. The farmers keep very many sheep of an exellent quality, the land being well adapted by nature for the animal. 
Nothing makes so fine a show, and is so much profit to the farmer now[a]days as a fine lot of sheep. Wool is high and large inducements are 
181 
held out to our husbandmen to improve and enlarge the breed of sheep. I saw many houses plastered outside which caused much amusement among the passengers by saying they were turned inside out. 
Arlington is a fine little village situated in a valley through which the Black River passes. On 2 sides it is enclosed by lofty mountains and the soil is of an exellent quality. I have seldom seen a more desirable place. Here is a marble meeting house of noble architecture. This valuable stone abounds in the neighbourhood. I have seen walls and house[s] ***** ***** made of it here. The road was so very rough and the load so light that we were almost dead with the "battering" before we arrived at Cambridge about 3 o'clock. We had then eat no dinner, neither would the stage stop till we could get any, but with a lighter load off we started over the frozen ground. It was nearly 9 o'clock before we arrived at Pittstown and according to the usual way they had then to go miles to Troy. But, refusing to go any further that night, the stage did not proceed. 
This has been a very fatiguing day's ride not only to Mother and M. 
A. but also to me. The farms in this part of the country are exellent and the farmers generally wealthy and independent. Chimneys are built outdoors, and the houses are boarded by lapping one board over the other like clapboards, with shutters instead of blinds, which make them have a very dull and forbid[d]ing appear-ance. Houses are apparently much cheaper made than in N. England. 
A circumstance happened tonight before we arrived at P[ittstown] which now makes me shudder while I write. The driver had dropped his hat and, jumping from his seat to get it, the horses started on a smart trot. We were almost dead with fear. A young man, a passenger, very softly opened the door, leaped from the coach, and by a hard run caught the dragging reins. For his admirable presence of mind and activity he needs to be handsomely rewarded, for I verily think he saved our lives from the most threatening danger, and perhaps from death. Many stagemen are too careless in leaving their horses alone. Such ought not to be employed. 
The country appears to be more level than in N. H. We put up this night at old Joe Reads, as he is called. A surly, morose old crab, he is no more fit for a tavern keeper than a hog in my view. He is not at all accomadating. 
Schenectady Friday December 2, 1831. After breakfast we resumed our journey, through Lansingburgh to the fine little city of Troy, situated on the west bank [ofJ the Hudson 7 miles from Albany. We passed the river in a Horse Boat. All the way to Albany the road is level and hard with gravel sidewalks and keeping close to the canal. Fine house sites and a more pleasant country are seldom seen. 
Jez 
The stage ran afoul a light waggon and bent the hind axle tree. I should think they would keep at their proper distance. Took dinner at the Mansion House, Albany. I know nothing of A[lbany] except that it is a pretty and business place. Took 3 tickets from the railroad office, were carried to the head or starting place in a carriage. 
To give a correct and full acct. of the R. Road is out of my power. Suffice it to say that it is the stupendous work of an enterprizing public. Immense embankments are thrown up, hills are leveled, and the barren track of land between S[chenectady] and A[lbany] is now traversed in 35 m[inutes]. Seven cars are drawn by an engine. No competent calculation can be made of the extensive benefit and profit which it hereafter will afford. They are now preparing to make another track by the side of the one already made. Arrived at Davis' Hotel after dark and found Father at Forresters Tavern, corner of Union and Jay Sts. Very much fatigued. 
Schenectady Saturday December 3, 1831. Although the snow is hardly sufficient for sleighing, it is very much used. Very cold winter weather. Father and I went out to [buy] some stove crockery and other necessaries. Schenectady (what I have seen) is very regularly laid out, the streets running parralel with the Mohawk and others crossing at right angles. State St. is the principal business st[reet] being a continuation of the Schndy and Albany turnpike. Union St., the continuation of Troy turnpike, is also a very pleasant street. The College is situated on this st[reet] of which I shall hereafter speak. The Grand Erie Canal passes through the center of the place, cutting State, Liberty and Union Sts in an oblique direction. The canal is now frozen up although at a very early season. 
Sunday December 4, 1831. This day I spent in Forrester's Bar Room, not being well enough aquainted to find a church and seat. Heathen-ish way to spend the Sabbath. Like the fare of our boarding house very well, but think 'tis not very respectable. We are now in a new city where all the prevailing customs and manners are Dutch. Go into a store and you'll hear 1/2 hour of little short [thick?] Dutchmen jabbering Dutch like geese. Small pox is in the city. From time to time I shall speak of things worthy and remarkable. The Mohawk Bank is situa[ted] on Union St., a spacious 2-story building. A Dutch Reformed church, an Episcopal, a Presbyterian, a Method't, Baptist and Cameroonian. 
Monday December 5, 1831. Amazing cold day. I find already that the Schndy Merchants are in many instances sharpers, taking as much for a thing as they can. Wood is worth 6 or 7 dollars a cord. Houses are amazingly cheap made here. A house lot worth 200 dollars and a good 
183 
brick 2-story house may be obtained for 1000 dollars and even less. Father has hired a convenient house at the corner of Union and Barrett Sts., owned by Mr. Vrooman, a Dutchman. The Dutch names are enough to crack the jaws of a man to pronounce. 
Tuesday December 6, 1831. This day wrote a letter to Dr. Chaplin of Waterville College for a dismission and recommendation to Union College. Cold. Archibald Craig is Mayor of this city. Expect Cram here soon. 
Wednesday December 7, 1831. Cram arrived last night and unloaded this morning. He bought another horse on the way. Took supper in our new abode. Like quite well. Father has been to work at Mr. Vedder's mill putting in a crank. 
Thursday December 8, 1831. I have began studying, anticipating an examination at College. Cold and severe. 
Friday December 9, 1831. Father has made a Jumper for Cram to go home 
with tomorrow. His journey here with our goods was a very to us, costing more than 40 doll[ar]s. A man journeying expense is seldom economical. So I think in this instance. Twenty doll[ars] only paid his expense to this place.  expensive at another's  job  
Saturday  December  10, 1831.  
"Two children, they went out to sled all on one summer's day. It so fell out, they all fell irt, the rest they run away."  

Cold. Very severe. 
Sunday December 11, 1831. Went to the Baptist Church in Maiden Lane., a small brick edifice combining neatness and sim-plicity. Mr. Gillet, a very young man, preached. In his manner, he is pleasing, having a greater share of spirit than is ordinary for a young minister. He preaches without notes, very properly too. He draws great collections to his meetings. Ten were baptised last Sunday and added to this church. A host of females sing but bass was wanting. This eveg. the house was very much crowded so that some went away. A religious revival seems to have been some time in this church adding members to it. 
Monday December 12, 1831. A Dutchman is a short man very much attatched to the customs of his fathers and [withal] a little "thick skulled," objections excepted. By talking a language which is only the mangled remains of***** Dutch ("the Devils language"), he has acquired the graveful practice of grunting out English, when he attempts to speak it, like a hog through his nose. In fact he is the butt of ridicule by Yankees and those of English origin. I do not say all Dutchmen are of this class, because N. Y. has many and honourable exceptions but I say as a people they have acquired a notoriety for those things of which I speak in the same degree as the Yankees for tricks [in] selling wood clocks, nutmegs, cucumber seeds and sheep-skin Rennit bags. But take my word for it, if the Yankees can cheat more than the Yorkers in way of trade they could deceive the very Devil himself. 

The Dutch are known by their talking as well as any way, often making the most egregious blunders and bulls, even if it were possible, more laughable than the Irish themselves. The other day a respectable Dutch merchant came into Forrester's and wanted his boy to ride his wife to a funeral. So a Dutchman says, instead of drawing stone, riding stone. They use a present participle with"after" before it instead of the present tense, as for "Feed my horse," "Be after feeding my horse." They are very "broken," as we say, in their speech like an 04tbun[?] Irishman. 
Tuesday December 13, 1831. Cold, amazing cold, yet without any snow. It has attempted a few times but ended in a squall. The canal closed nearly 3 weeks earlier than usual this season, thereby catch-ing many boats where they least expected or wanted to be. Fifteen or 20 boats are fast in this city where they will be obliged to stay till spring with their loads. Winter "setting in" so unexpectedly early has caused the price of wood and coal in almost every place to be very dear. 
Wednesday December 14, 1831. Little business is now done on the Railroad carrying passengers, owing probably to the cold weather --or some other cause unknown to me. The engines are housed and the cars drawn by horses. Snow must neccessarily cause some hindrance, I think, when from its great quantity it cannot hand[i]ly be removed from the rails. What little snow has fell this winter has been easily removed by men with brooms, but if an "old fashioned 11 snowstorm and wind should come this winter 'twould take all the men in Schendy to clear them. 
Thursday December 15, 1831. What is more sorrowful than fallen splendor, the fall of a wealthy noble, house full of honor, illustrious deeds, beauty, wit and all the accomplishments which in this world are held in the highest estimation, than the time when such a house has no heir on which to confer the name and bear it up from oblivion? 
18f 
Friday December 16, 1831. Went into a book shop and read Stearn's Tristam Shandy Gent., thought him a very eccentric man, a funny writer. 
Saturday December 17, 1831. Saw a Dutch girl with short petticoats --very droll to a Yankee. 
Sunday December 18, 1831. Very cold day, and didnt go to meeting, ought to have went. Went this evening to the Baptists, house very full, good 
sermon. 
Monday December 19,1831. Cold all along now. Went to hear a sermon at the Dutch Ref. Church, the commencement of a 11protracted meeting." Good. The church is at the bottom of Union St., a large edifice of brick with steeple and bell. There is nothing in the interior which is very remarkable or more to be remembered than ordinary. A pretty good organ. รก 
Tuesday December 20, 1831. Attended meeting all day and liked much. Dont know the names of the ministers. 
Wednesday December 21, 1831. Cold days now --dont know when they will end. Meetings are well attended. 
Thursday December 22,1831. The spirit of God seems to be silently but effectual[l]y working in the minds of sinners, some have hopes of glory beyond the grave. 
Friday December 23, 1831. Had a letter today from Dr. Chaplin of Waterville in which he gives me a dismission from W[aterville] College and a recommendation to Union College. Good meetings now at Dutch Ref. Church. A blessed revival of religion seems to have began in the hearts of Christians and sinners. The preaching is powerful and toutching the feelings. I never saw so many assembled ministers of talent. 
Saturday December 24, 1831. This morning I went to see Dr. Nott and had my name entered in the College books without any difficulty. I can enter the Freshmen class without examination because I bring a recom[mendatlo]n and dismis[sion]n from another College. This is much better than I expected when I went. In the afternoon I went to the Dutch meeting, which closes tonight. 
Was coming up Liberty St. the other day and saw a novel appearance. Two negresses in dashing style were coming up with horse and slay over the Canal Bridge when they run afoul an old lumber sleigh which stuck them fast. Such horrid grins and grimaces!! They hoisted a signal of distress and were soon helped "to get under way" again. Great many negroes in this city. 
Sunday December 25, 1831. Went to the Presbyterian meeting in Union St. The house is not very large but convenient and well warmed. Mr. James preached rather moderately by reading his sermon. What was particularly new to me was the mode of singing. They have seats for a regular choir of singers, but the leading singer takes his stand immediately before the pulpit, fac[e]ing the congregation and sings while all who can, follow. It is a very simple and pleasant arrangement. 
P. M. 2 o'clock. Attended the Episcopal [Church] in Ferry St. It is a very elegant little stone church with a high, picked [peaked?] steeple. It being Chris[t]mas, festoons are hung in every imaginable form in the interior, presenting a fine appearance. They have a small organ. Two persons officiated, one reading the Liturgy and the other an [agree?]ably written sermon, very flowery, a little bombastic. All form is not pleasing to the Almighty, but "the broken and contrite heart respect." 
This evening I went to hear Mr. Gillet. 
Monday December 26, 1831. Cold and unpleasant weather. I study a little, saw wood a little, and do nothing a little and so I spend my time. One week from next Friday the term begins. Then I shall be obliged to study hard, perhaps. "Pull the door shut," a Dutchman says. 
Tuesday December 27, 1831. An old Dutchman came in to see us this morning, very sociable and blundering. Real Dutch. Says he, "The West is poisoned with Yankees. They plague the Dutch terribly. Many years ago they so imposed upon them that a Yankee could not get a nights lodging at a Dutch tavern. The Yankees would get what they wanted and give their notes in which they never got a farthing." Many such anecdotes he told us of those "poisonous Yankees" but at last stopped by saying that the Dutch and Yankees were now on good terms. 
Went up to College to find a room &c. Mr. Holland, the Register, introduced me to Mr. Willis, one of my class from Danvers, Mass. I staid an hour and half in conversation on various subjects respecting the College and, not finding a room handily, I have concluded to wait till the students come in that I may find a vacancy if possible. 
Wednesday December 28, 1831. Father is now making me a pine desk to study by. I anticipate much pleasure from my splendid course of studies at College. If God grants me health and life, I hope now to make a permanent stand here for the present. Health is an incalculable blessing which can only be suitably prized by those who have been sick. Of late I have had some symptoms of my old disease Dyspeps[i]a, yet by the help of God and good management I hope it may be prevented. 

Thursday December 29, 1831. We have now 3 or 4 in. of snow which fell last Tuesday night. How fast time flies! 
-
Friday December 30, 1831. Went to hear Mr. Van Vactin [Vechten], the Dutch minister, this evening --a very devoted but feeble man. 
Saturday December 31, 1831. Was awakened last night by the cry of Fire! Fire! which I found to proceed from Mr. Lasalls Cabinet Shop in State St. which [burned] down. Not a great loss, I should think; 600 dollars, I am informed: 
I have now come to the close of another week-month-year in safety, health and enjoyment of every blessing which a bounteous Providence can bestow to make me happy. This evening I set down to ruminate on the past circumstances of my last year and record my thoughts and results in this book. 
May Heaven grant that I may so "consider upon my past ways that I may apply my heart to wisdom" for the future. The first thing which naturally pops into the mind is "Where was I one year ago this very night? Ans. 350 miles "down east" at Waterville College in the enjoyment of health and religious and literary privileges. Now I am in Schenectady NY. Who would have ever dreamed of such a change? Not I. I then thought, while writing a farewell sentence to the closing year, I should also close this in the same place. "God is great." 
Between the two nights of which I now speak, much has happened --to me. I have left one College and joined another. I have lost the fine state of religious feeling which I enjoyed about that time, and have a low, worldly state now, little savoured by the works of a truly pious man. O lamentable is this last change. I have been sorely afflicted by a frightful disease which now, thank God, is partially removed. By this means I have lost 1 year in my College course, but I am per--fectly resigned to both of the last Providences which God has been pleased to send upon me. It is for my good and his own Glory. I would not have it otherwise than pleases him. If he chastise, I will rejoice and I count his chastisement but gain. I have sinned much and gone astray from God! I acknowledge before him and the world with รกshame. I have been guilty of the most base ingratitude in that I have abused his mercies and thought light of his counsels. Still, with all my backslidings, sins, iniquities, omissions and commissions, I love him and his people. I feel grateful for his goodness although I do not manifest it as I ought. It looks m[y]sterious and awful to view the ways of 
188 
the Almighty --how he casts down and raises up --how he destroys and makes alive and how he does all things according to his own eternal will. How solemn is the view when we look at a year that is past, count the many hairbreadth escapes, and tracing along the chain of events bring our mind to the very time in which we live. This [There] is something grand in the past, the reason of which we cannot tell, a certain querying in our minds why we have lived to this moment, who kept us alive and for what purpose. When looking forward to another "New Year's Day" I know not where I shall be, in this life or another, but into the hands of an all Wise God I commit my life, and bid this year '31 an everlasting farewell. 
[Gap of 15 days] 

