
Sunday January 15, 1832. Attended prayers at 9, in Chapel. Heard Dr. Ludlow at Presbyn., Dutch Ref. Minister of Albany. A very powerful and interesting preacher, one of those who makes the blood chill and the hair rise by their pungent and affecting language. Amazing low in religion as I have all along been saying! 0 Father, quicken me by thine Holy Spirit. Little refreshed this evening by talking with chum who is also a professor. Going to pray night and morning. What can I do without God? "O wretched man that care, who can deliver me from the body of this death!" I vow and break my vows, I resolve and re-resolve but live the same. In vain is prayer without faith and active exertion or prevention. 
Monday January 16, 1832. A little snow or rather ice in the streets now. My studies occupy all my time. First I take exercise every day by sawing and clearing. Reading Xenophon's Cyropaidia, Horace's Satyres, and Livy. Arise at 7 in the morn and retire at 1/2 past 10. 
Tuesday January 17, 1832. Warm south wind last night, which caused a thaw, amazing slippery and wet. Last night routed by the cry of "Fire" which proceeded from Benedict's Hat shop --was leveled and burnt to ashes --between State and Liberty Sts. How grand and awful is a fire in the night, shining mournfully on the neighbouring buildings and shed[d]ing its pale light abroad. Loss about 2000 doll[ars]. 
[Gap frOinJanuary 17, 1832 to July 15, 1832] 
, 
Sunday July 15,1832. I know not as I have anything more to write on this day than on any ordinary week day. There's no spirituality in my heart, no decision of purpose, no heavenly frame of mind, no god[i]ness, righteousness, and faith. All's not well. 
Monday July 16,1832. The no. of deaths in Albany daily is from 6 to 10, cases about 25. I never saw our chapel as thinly filled as at present. There are 30 seniors~3 juniors, no sophs and 3 freshmen; a form of rescitation is still kept up but with great irregularity. 
Tuesday July 17,1832. The Seniors for the last time are to be examined, receive their degrees and go forth into a new life and stage of action. It is an important period in a young mans experience when he leaves his "Alma Mater," bursts the ties of early friendship and becomes his own master. 
Wednesday, July 18,1832. The Saratoga Railroad is now in full operation and makes 3 trips daily to Sara[toga]. This ¥afternoon we underwent an apology for an examination, no mistake was made throughout, the answers were prompt and terse. On the whole it was no bore at all because the Profs. were quite lenient. 
Thursday July 19,1832. The name of Almighty God ought to be adored by me in an especial manner for his preserving mercies and bounti-ful blessings during the past term. I have passed it with much pleasure and ease as it respects my studies. No disease has come near my dwelling but health, prosperity and joy has attend[ed] me. 
Friday July 20,1832. I have had an application from Mrs. Graham, Supert. of the African School, to become a teacher there this vacation which I have [ac]excepted although much against my wishes since the children are almost unmanageable and act, if it were possible, more like Devils than men. Considering their education at home or rather total want of breeding, it is not be wondered at they show forth so much of the nature of their great master and chief. Another prominent cause may be assigned to the multitude of teachers wholly different in their abilities of ruling and teaching children, some holding with strict reins, others giving free course for their "niggerish" disposition to expound and show themselves. A good black teacher ought to be hired by the city authorities. 
190 
Saturday July 21,1832. I hesitate not to say no life is more unpleasant than that of a student situated as we now are, having nothing upon our minds or hands, wholly at rest and laying upon our oars, so that the mind having nothing to feed upon turns upon and disqui[e]tsitself. However there's enough to do, neither need there be a day in a man's life vacant in which some charitable or laud[a]ble object may not be followed with our wonted eagerness. How many souls to be saved! How many destitute and afflicted to be relieved and comforted! And what further advances ever to be made in knowledge towards that perfection attainable only by Saints in Glory! Be ashamed, 0 Man! who thinkest a day so cheap a thing when [rewards?] are promised thee and so much remains to be done. 
Sunday July 22,1832. The interest heretofore taken in sacred music at the Baptist Church has considerably diminished either because the old chorister has left, or in part on account of some little animosities having crept into the choir; such things ought not to be. Music is the very soul andá spirit [ofl Godly worship and the means by which our thoughts are elevated in rapturous delight to regions that are happier than earthly habitations. It obliterates the traces of unholy passions in the human breast, calms warlike ferocity, melts the savage soul, tames the ungovernable and unnerves the uplifted arm of cruelty. One half attention due this sublime art has not been paid in modern days if we except its application to theatres, martial array, and opera, stations least worthy of carrying to perfection this heaven born science, while sacred music has been generally languishing in utter neglect. It must not be so in our church; private convenience and gratification must be second to the grand and noble object of the choir. 
Monday July 23,1832. It is a subject of much dispute among great men whether or not negroes are naturally gifted with so great a share of intellect as whites. In this great controversy I must confess my opinion is not firmly decided to either side because it has never been influenced by that of other men nor established by experience and mature deliberation; yet I lean to the negative, taking as my reasons, the universal moral and intellectual barrenness which has ever overspread this degraded portion of earths inhabitants, their want of any great geniuses, statesmen and warriors, their savage barbarity, uncouth appearance and manners a,nd their destitution of all those means which seem to bind society together in the strict bonds of friendship and civilised life. 
Those who affirm say that the African has been so abused, injured and subject that they could not rise, that their intellects have been cramped by the belief that they were an inferior order of being and therefore never had any courage or incitement to spur them towards the 
( 91 
heights of science, the councils of nations or the embattled field. But who does not know the onward and upward march of genius can no more be hindered by exterior circumstances than the Nile dammed with bulrushes or the lion led by a silken string? If for a moment it be impeded, it will be only to gain additional force and multiplied power by which to make the destruction of all opposition the more apparent and easy. I cannot esteem this, then, as a fair argument or if it be so goes to prove the negative. 
The Affirman ts say that their physical powers are the same as those of white men, this shall not be disputed. 
Tuesday July 24,1832. I find nothing will keep my nigger school in so good state of obedience as a tone and air of authority aided by the influence of a little pliant stick. I have used both very satisfactorily so far in my school. Strong came to me today having left Albany to attend Com[menceme]nt, which takes place tomorrow. He tells me the cholera is killing at a mournful rate in Albany, that the no. of deaths cannot be correctly reported but' there are many more than reported. Frightful are the ravages of this cholera, no man stands in the way to arrest its career, all ages, sexes, sects and conditions die. In life we are in the midst of death. 
Wednesday July 25, 1832. Fine day for Commencement. Procession formed at 9 1/2 o'clock and moved to the Dutch Church, which was pretty well filled considering the circumstances which have hindered the probability of a Commencement. 
The exercises were com[menc]ed by a prayer from Doctor Nott with music by the choir and organ. T~irty-two pieces were assigned to as many persons, 12 of whom were excused. The parts were well performed, especially Dunn's, Long's, Cramer's, Speir's, and Averill's. In fact, all were good and did great honor to the occasion. Hadley had a complete burlesque upon the "Times." 
Thursday July 26, 1832. The noble and divine flights of Milton in his Paradise Lost have never yet been equalled in modern days and it may be doubted whether this world has ever produced any greater poet. His mind, which was deprived of one source of wisdom, received a twofold greater accession by other means and what he thought his greatest misfortune became the great cause of his immortality in verse. 
Friday July 27, 1832. Hadley has taken lodging with me this vacation. During the first day on which I commenced my school (African) no hope entered my mind that I should bring them to such a state of discipline as I have with the close of this day. No ordinary school of white children could be expected to be more obedient to my commands and attend to my 
19Z 
injunctions with more alacrity and ease than these 11devils, 11 as they have been justly termed perhaps, but to keep up a form of order and regularity it is also necessary to be decided and let them know you [are] determined to have order. 
Saturday July 28, 1832. Warm day and pleasant. College[s] are closed by locks, no admittance. The cholera is very essentially abating in N. Y. but increases in Albany. The greatest wonder of all is that we are not smitten before with it. Have a letter of dismission from N. Hampton Church together with a line from Mr. Farnsworth. The Institution flourishes finely. Cram's letter was also received tonight. Is in P[ittsboro?] yet. Genl. Blake has 11failed." Mr. Robt. Lake was his bondsman and of course 11failed 11 too. He has not been heard from these 2 months. --Oh Chichester, what art thou coming to? ivlishap follows thee continually. 
Sunday July 29, 1832. Mr. James preached an admirable sermon this P. M. in the B[aptist] Church from this theme, 11Faith is the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen." 
He is a wonderful writer --sound, good &c., but as I have before said rather too deep for common intellect. 
Having an invitation to visit the Sabbath School at the factory this afternoon. I accompanied Esqr. Ward and son 1 1/2 miles to the house where it is held. Fifty or 60 children attend, composed of the sons and daughters of those men who labor in the factory. All the children likewise work there who are large enough to carry a bale of cotton up stairs. In this situation they are liable to learn everything sooner than virtue and good manners, for almost invariably some bad fellow will undo what good the laborious exertions and pious instructions of parents and teachers have affected in their morals and positively do much injury in addition to this counter action. This has been a most serious argument against the employment of children and those whose characters are easily injured. 
The most vehement shower that we have experienced this year passed over this evening accompanied with much thunder and lightning. Mr.---, Agent of the Sunday School Union, is in this place and preached a sermon pertaining to his mission in the Baptist Church where subscriptions were taken up to effect his purpose. 
Monday July 30, 1832. last night's shower is a storm which con-tinues till this evening. As yet I have accomplished little of my intended course through vacation, which is divided between reading, studying, writing and travelling, all of which must be attended to in their proper place if I wish to pass my time profitably and pleas-antly. Tomorrow I plan a tour to Saratoga on foot with Freeman, accompanied part way with Hadley. 
l9.3 
Travel to Saratoga, Bemis Heights, Schuylersville &c. Tuesday July 31, 1832. The auspices under which I commenced my journey were by no means promising, a threatening sky over our heads, a wet and mudy road beneath our feet, unpleasant expectations of a wet jacket, and dismal fears of the total miscarriage of our enterprise, plan[n]ed and intend[ed] for profit, pleasure, and information, contributed not a little to damp the anticipated satis,-faction of the half of this day. Under such circumstances we com-menced our ramble to the "aqueduct" which lays on our way about 4 miles distant from Schenectady. 
Here by reason of a break in the Canal 4 or 5 boats loaded with Irish emigrants were detained, those poor beings who can hardly draw pity from the hearts of our country men or subsistence from their own exertions in the present state of alarm. They are now moving west with the hopes of seeing a better country, where their wants will be plentifully supplied by the abundance of a fertile soil and the liberality of man in rewarding their labor. 
Any place is preferable to their own abused country, oppressed by taxes, tithes and impositions and sunk to the level with barbarous nations. Unhappy Ireland! when will the oppressor cease from oppression and the wicked man from troubling? When will the inhabitants of that injured isle, brave ***** and free, raise themselves to the standard of moral and intellectual exelence which has thus far remained undeveloped amidst their dark degradation? 
Four miles further we left our fellow, Mr. Hadley, and pursued our rout[e] towards Ballston through a level, fertile and interesting country. I was peculiarly struck with admiration of the neat little farm houses, painted and furnished with green blinds, with the fertile farms waving gently to the summer breese, with the rich wheat and tall grass, with the rank corn and potatoes, inspiring an agreeable feeling to the mind capable of drawing pleasure from nature simple and unmixed with the gaudy trappings of art. The air of contentment, health, plenty and innocence which is thrown around these little habitations of simplicity and virtue forever deprive me of the wish of mixing in the noise and bustle of city life, where vice destroys the peace and impurity the health, but would rather dwell in solitude where life flows sweetly with a slender pittance than in splendor where cities rear their "gorgeous palaces" and raise the busy hum of busyness and pleasure. My mind tastes not the sweets of these courted joys, seeks not the haunts of fashion nor pants for the insipid effeminate routine of fashionable amusements and pur-suits. 
But my story is getting sentimental. Any New Englander as myself cannot but observe the vast difference in the appearance and face of country between his native land and York State, especially the western [eastern?] part. When travelling the level smooth roads of the latter through a soil easy of cultivation and abounding with nature's fruits, he thinks of the rough stoney ways, the lofty hills and hard-labored farms of New England and wonders not that they are a more stern and hardy race than all the sons of our Union. 

It is the busy season of reaping wheat and grass. Every man is busily employed while the sun shines to house the rich and tender grain, ere the rains of heaven descend and destroy it. We had the misfortune to travel 2 miles on the railroad through a barren tract of land. This circumstance, that railroads must of necessity pass through the lowest and most unfrequented places, far removed from the fairest parts and all habitations, deprives them of one-half the pleasure of a ride and forms a grand argument for traveling in the old way. 
We arrived at Ballston Spa a little past noon when the heat of the sun was greatest and the fatigue of travel least able to be borne. The village is situated in a valley between 2 high hills through which a little stream passes, turning a number of mills in its way, and like all other villages has nothing worth noting except its springs and houses for the entertainment of strangers who resort in great num-bers thither during the summer months for health and pleasure. The situation is not well calculated for beauty unless we except the hill on the.southern side on which some very beautiful, airy streets might be made which would entirely overlook the lower part. The principal house is the Sans Souci, a large commodi[o]us and airy building built by a Frenchman who gave it the name, kept it for some years and sold it to Mr. Soames, the present occupant. The spring of the same name but a few rods back is the one most frequented in the place and holds a second place when compared with the famous water of Congress Spring at Saratoga. These mineral waters when drunk for the first time have a very disagreeable taste but after drinking 10 or 12 glasses become quite palatable and even sought because they are of a medicinal quality. I could find nothing more similar than a potion of salts (Epsom), the taste of which is extremely disagreeable. 
There is a conical hill on the northern side of the village on which has been erected a house intend[ed] probably for a summer house but now much decayed. On its sides are engraved, or rather cut, the names of almost every visitor probably that ever entered it, some in deep and legible characters, others much erased and destroyed by time and exposure. From its top the whole village is seen with infinite pleasure. The busy tradesmen, laborious mechanic and the fashionable visitor are all seen pursuing their various pursuits and pleasures. 
The railroad when finished thro' this place will [be] a curiosity worth seeing by the curious. Owing to the valley over which it must pass, the way will be carried over the principal street and river on splendid stone arches 
\9S 
made of the most permanent workmanship. The work is already going briskly forward and shortly will be completed. 
A poor Irishman was crushed to death a few days ago by the caving in of a bank under which he was dig[g]ing on the opposite hill for the railway. His imprudence was reprimanded by his companions, who stood aloof from the danger, but suspecting moved over. He still persisted in his labor tql the earth fell and broke his barrow and bones in pieces. Such seems to be the fate of those unhappy men. Unable to live in their own land, they flee to happy America where, dispised and hooted by all, they [labor?] with scanty wages. They gain their livelihood in the most servile employment, unwholesome and dangerous, often dying [pre]maturely away from home without friends to console and comfort or a companion to close their dying eyes, smooth the ***** of death and drop a tear to their departed memory. 
We viewed all the curiosities of Ballston, drank a full supply of its water, and by the advice of my companion walked towards Saratoga under the influence of a pretty hot sun and the fatigue of a 15 miles' trudge already; but fortune, who seems always to smile on our efforts, now in our time of affliction came to aid with an empty [cart?]. We came to a standá for the night at a neat-looking public house 2 miles out of the village whence we proposed to walk in the morning early. So closes my wonderful narration of our first day's travel --but stop, not so fast --our host and guest, hostler or somebody else got into a tremendous jingle upon politicks, both knowing nothing about the subject --bigoted, ignorant and, fools, they mowed immortal honors, raked up their spoils and with might[y] congrat-ulations of themselves that they had worsted each his adversary but in soul piqued at their ill luck, retired reluctantly to rest after a 3 hours wrangle, all which time to my infinite a[n]noyance I was obliged to lay awake in my bed. Then after all things were nicely still, door shut, all in bed and lights out, the dull heavy sound of carriage wheels were heard at a distance evidently nearing,. perhaps for our harbor. At any other time I might have put no interest in such circumstance but at this, after being so abominably bored as I had during half the night, I could not pleasantly bear the noise and confusion of another caterwaulling. 
The fates tonight turned against me for no sooner had that ominous waggon arrived opposite than all its groans and squeaks were hushed in silence. "Hollo, landlord," cries a***** low voice. "Hello, I say, bring a light." "La me, I shall freeze," says Mrs. Squeak. Then up struck a squalling brat with lungs as long [loud?] and strong as blacksmiths bellows, making the welkin ring and awaking all the hens, geese, turkeys and dogs about the premises, things indispensable to a county tavern after giving a travellers seat a fine da[u]bing by roosting on it a few minutes. No sooner had this trio struck up than a busy rustling began to be perceived about the house. 
Old rickety bedsteads squeaked; long lazy gaps and groans were heard from the adjoining room occupied by their sleepy half-waked dormants. From all this bustle some after part must of course be expected, so it happened. In a moment after, the hostler came to the floor with a tremendous bound which shook the house "from the centre all around," and as it always happens that the meanest room in an inn is commonly allotted to throu[gh] travellers of an ordinary appearance, so on this occasion we, stowed away in a room filled with beds which the hostler, cook, bartender, bottle-washer and other like mentionables were wont to occupy, were beyond measure annoyed with dirty [bed] clothes, confined air and unearthly showering. 
Well, as I was saying, out leaped the hostler, and the whole brotherhood followed in turn, and such rapid motions with noise and agitation succeeded as when the fire cry and bell rouses the slumbering man. He leaps forth and in his trepidation put[s] his legs into his coat sleeves and curses his mistake and delay. They all tumble[d] down stairs and at last were ready to serve the waiting travellers, whose lady was in the dangerous predicament of freezing in the beginning of Augt. But such splenetic women are not uncommon. They know no respite from whims and are forever vexing the righteous souls of their henpeck'd husbands. 
I conclude our new comers were folk of consequence and fashion from the imperious orders and frequent complaints of our Lady Squeak but, however it was, they had the best room in the house to which they were obliged to pass by ours, which seemed a kind of grand thoroughfa[re] to all parts, for the hostler with his old tin lanthorn was racing through it betime[s] that night, making a clattering not dissimiliar to a soldier with Jack boots. When our travellers passed through, I drew up the clothes and most gracefully dissembled, still squinting through one eye to know whom we had got. The hostlers and servants soon slunk away to their nests and I was locked in the arms of sleep. 
Wednesday August 1, 1832. After such an adventure as last night you would not think [it] strange if I did not speak of Saratoga Village till 7 o'clock this morning, but the anticipation of its beauties and curiosities aroused me betimes and at a very early hour we were drinking Congress water. It is not strikingly different from that of Ballston although considered superior to any yet known. When first drawn there is a very agreeable smartness which after some exposure becomes dissipated. It sparkles like soda water on the surface of the spring and fixed air is continually escaping in bubbles. More water is drunk in the morning than at any other time. 
Saratoga is public in almost every front. Its streets are but a continuous range of boarding houses, shops, and places of amusement. The most celebrated houses are the Congress, Clinton and Union Halls, United States Hotel, Columbian Hotel and Pavillion, all of which in the season of resort are quite full of gentile [genteel?] and fashionable boarders. There their evenings are spent in splendid balls and days in pleasurable riding, fishing, hunting, and gymnastics. After a walk through the village, seeing all that was worth waiting for, as we thought, we betook ourselves again to our journey which we now pointed towards Bemis Heights 14 miles distant. I had expected the battlefield was nearer the spring and therefore was surprised to find it so far but with good courage and determination, a whole day before us and a !audible object in view, our aching bones became lithe as a wrestler's legs. 
The country through which we now passed to Bemis Heights is by no means so pleasant [or] fertile, as far as my observation extended, as that between Schenectady and Ballston. Much was wild, although in fact if cultivated it might be very fertile, but in general appearance, which often is a true criterion, it was rather poorer soil and much thinner inhabited. 
It was a little past noon when we arrived on the Heights. The sun was powerful and shot his peircing beams down with tremen-dous force. Yet I heeded it not so long as I could have the pleasure of treading the field of our countrys' Glory, tho' hardly a vestige remains to tell where the battle raged, the brave men fell and the ramparts rose. I soon found a young man who, born and bred on the spot, was fully taught in all traditions and curiosities. He carried us to the leveled entrenchment thrown by Gate's army extend[ing] accross the Heights from the river inland to the spot where Gates held his headquarters, and a barn perforated with grape shot and musket balls. Many relicks have been picked up on the ground such as bullets, flints, cannon balls, grape shot, buck shot, gun locks, parts of broken guns and many such like things. I obtained a large number of bullets. He who has been on such places better knows what feeling[s] arise in his breast than pen can describe or to[u]ngue express. The sacred solemnity, silent admiration and wonderful associations conveyed to the mind thro' the very idea of being a descendant of those hardy sons who so manfully fought the country's battles, raise the soul of a patriot high towards the abodes of those spirits whom we adore for their bright example and valourous deeds. I would not be a haugh[ty] Briton, boastful of his high descent, nor the flit[t] ing Frenchman or revengeful Spaniard in the most exalted station such men could give. No, I would rather be the humblest son of Independent America, with no title to flatter my pride or hereditary wealth to pamper my caprices, possessing only the name of a free man inherited from my worthy forefathers. 
Soon will those ancient relics of our country's glory and independence pass from among us and go down to the grave fully ripe 
,I._ ,.,
l98 
with immortal honor. Then their sons shall in vain look for the sad remains of that honored few who braved the storms of '75 and '76 long since slumbering in their lowly dust. They will turn their eyes towards the battlefields as the fairest and purest admonitor of this happy remembrance and as a spot possessing the nearest alli-ance with their revered memory. 
Bemis Heights and the plains of Stillwater, Bunkers Hill and Lexington, Yorktown and Mammouth [Monmouth?] with others will be cherished with tenfold veneration and hereafter; when our childrens' children shall see the engraven stone commemorating their distinguished events and ask what these mean, how will their eyes sparkle and their young hearts leap at the storys of their ancestral glory. The battlefield, now divided into rich farms fattened by the best blood, bravest hearts and sturdiest sinews of our land, now waves with the golden wheat bowing gently to the autumnal breese; on the levelled ramparts nod the rank corn, and the sharp shrill sound of the haymakers s[c]ythe is heard where was the clash of many inflicting arms and the horrid din of battle. Happy change ----little did they think 55 autumns ago when laying, during the inclement frosts of a fierce October's air, on their arms by night, what happiness and prosperity they were dearly purchasing for those who should succeed them. Proudly and lightly I touched upon the hallowed ground, every pebble and turt of which seemed as consecrated (if it were possible) as the sacred things of our holy church. 
An antient well of excellent water is now used near the house in which Gates quarter[e]d and the breastwork thrown across the "heights." When drinking of its cool and pure water, how thick and fast arose the images [of] my then fertile fancy. I called to mind Gates and his brave fortunate cheifs, drinking of it before that memorable day which sealed the inevitable fate of surrender to their enemy and victory to themselves, or now in the heat of the battle I could see the panting and thirsting soldier rush to its brink for one draught to quench his burning throat and returning to the dread encounter with renewed strength. 
The spot where Frazer fell is a mile or 2 farther north near a blacksmith's shop, as I was told by Major Buell, an old man who then served as guide to the army. He is now tottering over the grave and well nigh the end of his pilgrimage which has already numbered 89 winters, but amid the ravages of time his memory and intellect is vigorous, treasuring up the events of his youthful days with admira-ble accuracy. He is surrounded by his descendents who till their humble patrimony on the banks of the Hudson and [ sit] around him and listen to his instructions as under the shadow of a mighty oak which has braved the blasts and fury of heaven and still stands in the might of its strength, towering towards the sky, bidding defiance to the storms and winds. 
l99 
The house in which Frazer expired is still standing on the Hudson, an antient specimen of architecture, and like all the building of those days it is gambol-roofed and now occupied by one Smith who formerly kept a public house. The room and the very spot is pointed out. [He] is said to have been in the front room towards the river under the window at the left hand of the door. Blood was visible some 20 years ago on the floor but is now entirely effaced. A strip of land (of about a mile in width) between the river and the hills which run parrell with it is extremely fertile, none more so. 
Along these hills the Northern Canal is made by excavating the earth on the upper side and embanking on the lower, so that for miles the labor and expense of construction was comparatively small, the one bank being natural and the materials for the other at hand. The travel is astonishingly decreased since the cholera came to Canada. Having satisfied our curiosity with all that was possible to amuse or instruct and feeling an itching desire for adventure, we stepped into a boat and made 7 miles to Schuylerville on Fish Creek where we arrived at 5 o'clock. 
I had scarcely set foot ashore before I became acquainted with a gentleman who for 3 weeks had been residing in the vicinity almost for the sole object of procuring facts respectingá the events which transpired about the neighboring country. He at once pointed out the place where Burgoyne and his army surrendered, now a large cornfield between the village and river ( the Hudson) on the north side of Fish Creek, as well as the large elm tree under which the articles of [surrender?] were signed by the representatives of the British Gen'l. 
It is admirable to look upon the manoeuvres of the Americans when viewing the ground and various stations which were held under them. en the North immediately across the river on an emi-nence was stationed Gen. Fellows, I think, with a detachment, playing with dreadful success upon the enemies lines which were extend[ed] along the hills bordering upon the river, thereby cutting off his retreat towards the north. On the west was the swollen Hudson rendered impassable by frequent rains. On the south and east Gates brought up the victorious American Army, already flushed with their recent successes and no more dreading the boasted superiority of regular troops. Amidst all the hardships of a cold and inclement season, forced marches, watching, and scarcity of provisions, barely able to support life, it is astonishing with what incredible courage and perseverance the British soldiery bore every danger without a murmur and sustained the dreadful fire of the enemy upon their lines on all sides exposed. Every report of the threatening cannon rung the knell of some departed soul, every setting sun showed their ranks thinned with less hope of ultimate delivery, and their scanty provisions were almost consumed. 
2.00 
Under such circumstances, and to such extremities came the remains of that splendid army of more than 10,000 men, who marched out of Canada in the Spring of '77 attended with the most experienced and brave leaders and a Genl. already high raised on the list of military fame, confident in success and the final overthrow of the Colonies; with the more chagri[n] the present ill designs were received and borne. Their numbers were reduced to less than 6,000 and these, har[r]assed by every hardship which could possibly fall to the lot of a soldier, began to feel their spirits droop within them and despair of escape from the enemy. By the complication of all these adverse circumstances Burgoyne, ill-fated man, was surrounded at the time of his surrender. 
About 2/ 4 of a mile above Fish Creek is now that house in which Madame Riedesel and other officers' ladies were secreted during the bombardment of Stark, whose post was on a hill in an oblique direction across the river, a mile above or so; therefore, being wholly exposed to his fire because one of the nearest posts of the enemy and being known to contain those who were enemies, in a short time the roof and sides became a complete seine, as it were. The ladies fled to the cellar since it was unsafe longer to remain above, being served by a female who brought them waterá and other necessaries during their unhappy confinement. 
In the north room, which was most shattered, is still shown the stain of blood on the floor said to have flowed from a wounded man who, carried thither for assistance, was shot dead by the flying balls of Stark while in the very act of having his wounds closed. The holes in the wall or plaister made by the balls are perceptible although daubed over. 
The present occupant is Mr. Marshall whose wife in his absence had the politeness to show me the cellar and rooms, all of which remain precisely as 5 5 years ago. Owing to the many repairs it is a very comfortable and neat dwelling which one would little suspect of having seen the storms of so many winters and so much service and hard usage. The frame, however, together with the boards and all the inside work -.windows and doors--are the very same as were first made. Its style of architecture was a gambol roof with windows in the roof, but latterly the windows have been taken out and closed up. On the whole it is a house and situa-tion every way worthy of bearing the conspicuous part it does in the interesting story of the affair at Saratoga, and the present tenant, Mr. M., worthy of praise for his politeness and kindness in pointing out so obligingly the particular spots and events which make renowned his honored dwelling. 
From this house to the creek, intrenchments were made, small traces of which are still seen. On the spot where Genl. Schuyler's country seat was, which Burgoyne so ungentlemanly burnt contrary to all rules of civilised war, now stands the neat and comfortable mansion of Mr. 
ZCJI 
Schuyler, his grandson and inheritor of his present property on the north side from.the Creek on its way to the Hudson, laving his paternal estate. Here are mills and a beautiful little cotton factory, the property Mr. S., the dam of which forms one of the most beautiful cascades imaginable. The width of the creek is very much narrowed by high rocks on either side. Here by the skill of art a dam has been constructed 28 ft in h[e]ight, over which the waters flow in one smooth unbroken sheet upon the framing rocks below. Nothing can equal its beauty when viewed from the bridge below, tinged by the variegated colors of the rainbow. In excavating the canal some years ago numerous bones were dug out, without doubt belonging to those men who left them to bleach on the plains of Stillwater in '77 in fighting against the arms of Liberty for the rottenest of causes: a quiver too, as Mrs. Marshall tells me, was found by a ploughman near her house as bright and pure as ever. 
Having viewed all the curiosities of the place, refreshed our ears and understandings with bar-room talk and slang, we rested our weary bodies with "balmy sleep, sweet restorer." 
Thursday August 2, 1832. At 4, we arose and pursued our journey with fine glee through an uninteresting country by a different rout from the one we came. Nothing worth noting transpired except that I found a horse's shoe which I sold for some crackers and bless[ed] my stars for my good luck which I considered clear gain. At 9 we were in Saratoga after a travel of 12 miles in the cool of the morning, drinking Congress water, Flat and High Rock. This latter spring, one of the greatest curiosities I ever saw, is situated in a valley 3/ 4 mile above Congress and arises from an aperture about 8 in. in diameter in the top of a rock formed precisely in the shape of a clever hay-cock. The water, which formerly overflowed, now arises a foot and [more?] from the top of the rock having been cracked by the fall of a tree, and is in every respect similar to the other waters. What is still more singular is that no stone or rock except this is to be seen around. We staid in Saratoga till noon and, having drunken a suffi-ciency of water and seen to our satisfaction, took the road toward Ballston under a scorching sun. 
This ev[eni]ng I [was] passing the San Souci when my ear was caught by the sound of fiddling. I ***** perceived it came from the Saloon in which the scauty [scanty?] occupants of the house were dancing a cotillion or something of the kind. Retired to bed with good zest. 
Friday August 3, 1832. Saw Schenectady this morning at 9, hot with an 8 miles ride, however, in a cart. Folks all well and city pretty free from cholera. 
202 
Saturday August 4, 1832. I sat in a very solemn church meeting in the Bapt[ist] vestry this afternoon in which I was proposed as a member of this church and elected unanimously together with 3 others, 2 of whom will be baptised tomorrow. But nothing softens my benumbed soul, callous to all generous and noble feelings, in con-sequence of a long continuance in the practice of known and forbid-den sins, soul.killing and soul-hardening. 
Sunday August S, 1832. My thoughts on this day are in my common-place 
book. 
Monday August 6, 1832. I find undoubted proof that I have no abilities for composition in the repeated unsuccessful attempts at Poetry and Prose. Why, I cannot compose pumpmakers advertise-ments much less a production on any dignified subject fit for the chaste, precise and cultivated ears of an enlightened public, who are the standing umpire of a mans popularity by his exertion of literary talent. I wouldn't give a fig for a newspapers scrib[b]ling talent, bedab[b]led in politics and cant blackg[u]ardism, if I could not be a sensible, moral, sound and pleasing writer. Should I fall far short of Scott, Bulwer, Cooper, or Irving, be the gift far from me. 
Tuesday August 7, 1832. I had almost forgotten to mention the cholera any more although it still kills in N. York by 60's and slays 10 weekly in Albany. In truth, it's now general all over the state, more especially on the great thoroughfares of commerce and travel. A continuous line extends from N. York City to Buffalo and from thence to Canada by the way of the G[rea]t Lake[s] and river St. Lawrence. 
Wednesday August 8, 1832. I am now in the greatest labor and exertion imaginable, determined with "nerves of steel" and "heart of controversy" to twist (not spin) out a little panegyric of 40 lines to a dead person, which shall come the nearest to that heavenly and fanciful art called poetry that I can bring my labored production. I cannot possibly finish more than 10 lines a day but with this slow discouraging progress I must say, although not good, it is original. 
Thursday August 9, 1832. Oh what an itching there [is] among men to be great! It is the schoolboys joy and the statesman['s] aim, the merchants craft and the soldiers service, the students toil and every cheif end, to be great each in his several ways. It tingles in the ear to have ones name sounded by fames trumpet before all men and spoken by every mouth, but all men shudder to be forgotten, never to be thought 
263 
of or known after death down the long lapse of ages. It is even better, some think, to be "damned to everlasting fame," than never distinguished. 
Friday August 10, 1832. Hadley is now beginning a tour thro' Sara-toga Co. as an agency for the Amer. Bible Soc., as well qualified doubtless as any other man for that difficult and important business. Every ordinary person cannot influence the feelings of the people to an object wherein their purse is concerned, neither with care and craft represent the pressing demands of the starving so that the purse string will unloose to the calls of the dying universe. 
Saturday August 11, 1832. When once the bow is unstrung, it is of no use to shoot forth barbed arrows, As the mind, when once fallen back into a kind of laziness, is no more anxious or willing [to] exert it[self] with the least possible exertion, but is more content to perform those duties which require no deep thought and tiring imagination. The bright beams of genius are often dimmed by slothfulness of indolent mind, nor shoots forth those peircing rays which might still have astonished and enlightened mankind. 
Sunday August 12, 1832. Few are the men whom presumption per-pemits to think they are going to die al tho' reason and conviction shows them assuredly they must. I can account for this sad presuming in no other way than that the uncertainty and doubt in which that dread event will happen leads men to presumption that it will not come at all. Now no man thinks he will be punished in hell forever. He presumes that he will be converted to holiness before death if he believes in a change of heart. I know that I had not the least supposition of dying unconverted; farthest was it from me, yet I merely presumed upon Gods pardon for I might like l000's of others never [have] been turned to holiness. 
Monday August 13, 1832. Death in material form and apparent to the eyes of some people in this city would hardly deter them from eating green fruit and vegitables. So bigot[t]ed are some of these old Dutch to their accustomary manner of life that regardless of all caution the most wise and reasonable, and proofs the most manifest, that they will persist to fill their insatiable stomachs with all manner of unripe garden sauce with sayings as these, "I have always eat what I wished and it never hurt me, neither will I leave off now." "If I die, I will upon a full stomach." Horrid mockery! Let the devil take such fools if he must --spite of remonstrance. 
204 
Tuesday August 14, 183 2. I have finished 44 paltry lines of what I wrote for poetry and transcribed them into my scrapbook. If the "Whig" Editors choose they will also insert these in their paper, for I like to see my own writing in print while every one is ignorant of the author but myself. No reader will ever ask for the writer unless it be to stigmatize with a bad_ taste and no talent for such productions. If they approve I am still unknown; if they disapprove I am unknown and care not a fig for their disapprobation. 
Wednesday August 15, 1832. Six persons died of the cholera in this city last week, all of whom were very imprudent or intemperate habitualy. Since Saturday no case has occured. I should not wonder if many more such persons died, for there are many who eat as tho' the Old Ni[c]k drove them to it, sparing their belly nothing which is considered a gratification in eating or drinking. 
Thursday August 16, 1832. Disappointment and vexation is the portion of this life and the man who should be free from such would be an anomaly of human existence. Some there are vexed above their fellows, covered thick and fast with their ills of timely duratio'n, never eating and drinking with pleasure, never raised full high in honors gilded car where fame tickles and tinsel joys but, buffeted at every avenue of success and prosperity, live ever on the verge of being great, the sport of the winds of fickle fortune. 
Mrs. Benedict died-today of the cholera. 
Friday August 17, 1832. One day man in the golden dreams of fancy sees honors sticking fast around him, the gracious pledges of his merit and exertion, the next regards not the promising precedent but strips him of all his splendor and gaudy magnificence which makes the difference of his state more visible and sits him in the wretched lot of disesteem. 
Saturday August 18, 1832. I would not speak of the hissings of raga.muffins or curses of an offending nightwalker, for the spite of either would be of no consequence to a gentlemen because too far beneath his notice to merit his regard. But when an equal, yea, a superior in age [and] experience and supposed gentility affronts me from a cause wholly unintentional on my part and uses such ungentle language as to cut the tender feelings of my humble heart, if I notice him in no other respect it shall be to believe him far inferior to my humble self in the graces of a good-natured disposition. Such I will remember [of?] Maj. Jonas Holland who ranted might[i]ly because I asked him for the key of the south sec.[tion] door which leads to our library. 

Sunday August 9, 1832. The rain fell in torrents as tho' the "windows of heaven were opened" to deluge us but, keeping the Lord's promises in view, that summer and winter, seed-time and harvest, shall all return in their proper season, without any further recur[r]ences of another flood we looked with pleasure upon the little Mohawks which ran down our gutters "from morn till ev'en." 
One feels most sensibly the rising emotions of pleasure when he can see the rains pat upon the casement of a snug apartment which he occupies. When he has no pressing occasion to expose him to outdoors and plenty to amuse within. When we see our pleasurable walks and amusements which we partake in a broad [way?] impeded, we sit down with great good will and zest at home and feel a kind of instinctive withdrawal and exclusion from all without, gathering ourselves more closely within, thinking our own thoughts more pointedly and more.content with such things as everyday affairs, which at other times would be insipid. There are many men upon a rainy Sunday amidst a dearth of books will sit down at home and carefully look in his Bible which at other times or on other occasions he never opens. This he does to pass the time away whilst the general dreariness. 
Church is very thinly seated. 
Monday August 20, 1832. I wonder how fast the days of this vacation fly past, they wait not to be dwelt on neither to speed our weary labors. The sun only kisses the rising mom and as soon bids adieu to the rosy and mellow evenings. 
á I would that I could take that th[ie]f Time, who is stealing away my life so fast, by the foretop and glide along with him in his airy journey, then might I be profusely prodigal of my golden moments and loiter on the banks of pleasure, linger in the seats of indolence, still having enough left for all the common purposes of life. But he slips by me on the whirlwind, winging [?] his cloudy chariot and scarcely can I see his back at all. What an insane delusion takes the people of this globe so to waste the short 3 score years and ten which a half never attain to! They ought not sleep, eat nor think with a loss of time but run with might the [race?] set before them. 
Tuesday August 21, 1832. I believe our cholera report for the past week is on the whole more favorable than week before last. Four deaths only reported, cases probably 8 or 10. The Lord really is doing wonders for us, whereof we are glad. I pray he may still remember us in mercy, not in judgement. Surely we have provoked his anger like other cities, but Hewill have mercy on whom He will have mercy. 

Wednesday August 22, 1832. Crimes and. sin are the inseparable attendents on indolence and an unocupied mind and hand. It were better to do unprofitable labor than perform none, for be assured where you find no employment the Devil will soon set you a doing. He has much to meddle in my life both to do and not to do! So when he comes in and goes out with freedom my poor weak mind is lead captive by a hair, which I have not resolution to sever, so sweetly are his wages and flattering his promises. 
Yet nought of zest that be In sin and revelry, Shall sever me from thee, 0 Lord, thou my God. 
In whom I trust I know, His goodness is not slow Or loving kindness too, The Lord, thou my God. 
Altha' in deep distress, Speaks to my bosom peace, Bids trust upon his grace, The Lord, Thou my God. 
Then gone vain fears, nor stay To chase my peace away I will trust as I may The Lord, Thou my God. 
Thursday August 23, 1832. It puzzles me unaccountably to tell how I have caught such [a] severe cold which so racks my bones with aching pain and forces me to wait upon my nose with so [much] attention. It ver[i]ly inclines me to think I took it sleeping and under wool enough too, for do[a]ting mothers never let their darlings lack for warmth altho they deprive them of all comfort in so doing. 
Now I've been snuffing and sneezing, coughing and wheezing all day while now and then I would twang a note 'pon my nose not dis[s]imilar to that lusty trumpeting when a stage coach driver, nearing some place of nightly destination, blows such blasts in his horn as tho' he would split its brazen--no, not brazen --pewter throat. These flourishes long and loud awake all the sleeping curs, rever-berating through the still and deserted sts., and slumbering inhabi.tants awoke from their dozes wish him and his horn to the Devil. 

I think "let the cholera carry off how many it will, my life and habitation will be free from the scourge[."] This arises from pre-sumption, arrant presumption on my own temper[a]nce and the dear hope that my time of stoppage is not closed. I say 
I shall not die this year I trow Nor yield a youthful life See I am hale and healthy now I hold with death no strife. 
Yet this presuming is a damning sin of human nature and has cheated more souls of happiness and everduring fruition of the heavenly seats of paradise than the Devil had ever hoped. Beware! Beware of it, youth! Rest upon nothing but present opportunities of action. 
Friday August 24, 1832. 
Living dogs are better far Than lordly lions lying are. 
By some papers which I have received I find the cholera is in Boston. "Why don't you talk like I do?" says the Southerner. "Why don't you talk as I do," says the Yankee. 
Saturday, August 25, 1832. I am barren and unfruitful in sentiment and words to express the same. I snub[?] and wish mouth was like the pen of a ready writer, inditing godly matter, then I should like to write. 
Sunday August 26, 1832 . 
If on the Lord's day in the spirit Then rejoicing I could cheer it. But my harp of joy is hung On the willow boughs unstrung. 
In a strange land beside the chill streams of uncongenial soil where the winged spirit of a yearning heart is constrained to love more tenderly the sweet fields, refreshing suns and balmy breeses of a distant, and now more loved, native land, the songs of our country so pointedly bring to remembrance its beloved memory that it infinitely embraces the regret which arises from such a seperation. We say, "How can we sing our national songs, far from the soil where their sentiment flourishes? The cold and frigid clime of a foreign judgement will see no beauty in them." Much less can a wandering Christian cheer his heart by a song of Zion. 

Mr. Stebbens, the Methodist minister, preached an admirable sermon from this theme, "I am tormented in this flame." He is like the generality of Methodist ministers, simple in his manners and plain, homely and pathetic in his preaching, speaks loud in rather a conversational way and long spins out his sermons. Now tonight when he had cleverly entered midway into his inspiring subject and cast volleys of good sentiment clothed in strong and forcible language upon the listen[ing] audience, a boat passed the canal which almost laves the threshold of this holy place. Some mischivous whoreson on board, undoubtedly inspired by the Devil, gets his horn which almost every boat carries and began to pipe at some distance before he came to the house of assembly. At first I could hardly hear it but nearer and nearer it approached, still increasing in loudness till when he came opposite he did make the brazen throat of his horn so tremble with his lusty blasts that all preaching was lost in the common twang of his confounded trumpet. The audience began a general bustle and snigger at so unrivalled a scene of tragico-comico playing, for here was the preaching a hell and judgement and there, as if in mockery of the last great trump, that little brass horn vomited forth such a string of varying sounds that even a deacon must have laughed to have seen such a ludicrous mixture of serious and jocose. The sounds gradually died away till at last we caught the speakers voice. 
Monday August 27, 1832. 
"Many poor gentlemen," says Donald MacLeish, 
"Are as good as a King tho' not quite so rich." 
Chron. of Can. 
Last Saturday was a most unaccountable cold day such as I never before saw in Dog Days. We may expect to see the like by the middle of next November. 
If a soul among the dead 
Rising from his dreary bed 
Told the people of Durip 
'"Ware the Cholera"-Stir up 
Their torpid minds and advance 
Imperious temperance, 
They wouldnt mind his mandate much 
At least these uncouth bigots -Dutch 
They'll eat and fill their greedy guts 
Till there's no room to stow their gluts 
209 
With ev'ry thing that can be seen -(Ifvegitable)-ripe or green. __________ Whew! 
Tuesday August 28, 183 2 . 
A bird in the cage 
'S worth two in the hedge. 
"A discovery! a discovery!!" Hold up a little, Jonty. "A discovery! won.wondrous !! "Oh stop now, Jont., I'll tell all about it. Ever since the spring of 1830 my poor eyes have in some measure troubled me, that I could by no means account for their unparrelled stubborness in persevery to embitter the infinite pleasure arising from a keen sight which before I abundantly possessed. Look back in my scratchings or scrawls and you will see it recorded. 
They have seldom been weak altho' sometimes they might have been, with great reason --a certain blur or dimness has since been cast before them when I have viewed things at the distance of a rod before my face and it [is] with difficulty that I can distinguish man from woman if across the street. I can read as well as ever without the least sense of inconvenience but [if] my sight is carryed beyond objects within my reach, this misty cloud hangs over them. 
Now it was by pure accident that today I took up the spectacles of a friend who is near-sighted when behold! I found myself in the same dilem[m]a which till this blessed moment I was ignorant of altho I have used every other glass but the right one. 
How great was my astonishment and pleasure when so clearly and distinctly my sight penetrated the most remote objects far on the mountain's side or the dark for[r]ests of lofty trees or busy cartmen and travellers where before nothing but a plain smooth surface was visible. 
Says I, "No one can now see so well as I," and I veryly believe so now. Everything seemed living and moving which before seemed but dull and monotonous. Nature and art has received new spirit and life when these magic glasses are before my eyes. I could think of nothing so apt as a man looking thro' a spying-glass, which brings near objects distant and makes plain those obscure, infuses new life into nature and brings at once to the eye all her thousand charms. 
As soon as possible I must have such. 
Ten deaths of cholera in the city during the past week. 
Wednesday August 29, 1832. 
As you would men do to you, 

Ye to them should likewise do. 
Everyone knows with what anxiety and breathless uneasiness he looks on every lowering cloud and watches the long-established signs of weather in the sky, when an intended excursion is in contemplation. I felt somewhat disappointed this morning when I found the sky overclouded and the sun rising clear and in his glory, but it is hiding his bright face beneath a hanging cloud, for this was to be the day of an excursion into the country as far as Guilderland. 
However I employed myself agreeably in my room with my books and paper untill noon. In the meantime the whole broad expanse of heaven had become of living sap[p]hire--not a cloud was floating on the hori[z]on nor in the midway region, but the sun in his zenith shot down his scorching [rays] with [u]nwonted violence. 
My Dutch friend Ouderkirk and myself now renewed our anticipations of pleasure from a country ramble and walked out of the city about 2 hours past noon. Like all who do wonders I am anxious that my feats should be perpetuated in the time-defying annals of pen and ink, therefore I now write for the benefit of anyone who may never before have heard it, that with wonderful agility and perseverence I traveled 1 1/ 4 miles on the rails of the railroad track which are not quite 2 inches wide on the top. 
From the road we travelled full 7 miles over the most barren, monotonous and loathsome plain imaginable covered with stunted pines, oaks and a few ber[r]y bushes. The soil and productions are admirable for rearing lusty black snakes which are often seen basking in the sun, e,xtended across the sandy road to the no small annoyance of the startled traveller. 
We however passed this dreary track with seeing only 2 or 3 and thot' ourselves lucky. 
The Smoaky Tavern, I think, is the only house which we saw on the whole plain, rightly named from its dirty appearance and singu-lar qualities of retaining all the smoke which it makes within its own limits. They tell me the chimney is of little or no use, for the truth of which I will not vouch since I could not have any convincing evi-dence from ocular demonstration, but however the smoke-faced visage of the landlord somewhat inclined me to half-believe this broad assertion. After "blowing" here a few minutes, we luckily (and unluckily too) stumbled upon a man with a cart full of little urchins who had been "huckleberrying" on the plains; we mixed ourselves in with the Kittery-boys, some sitting, some standing and others laying, while I made shift to seat myself as well as possible on a water bucket which by every cant of the waggon I found to be no easy thing to manage conveniently. In riding 3 or 4 miles in this 
tormenting vehicle my flanks and loins were so jaded and bruised that, 
upon my word, if I had rode as much farther I should have literally have 
been battered to jelly, for every lurch of the unlucky thing would bring me 
on my unstable seat "thwack" against the le[e]ward board and so on the 
contrary upon the other, so that betwixt the rolling pail and the heaving 
and falling cart I was well nigh dead when I grudgingly muttered "much 
obliged to ye" and took my leave of this wicked congregation. 
Then a few minutes travel brought [us?] in sight of "Bang all,11 which 
you will doubtless be very desirous [to] know. (But I must first to bed and 
sleep, then I will finish this days voyage). This "Bang all" is nothing nor 
less than a dirty little place which one often passes in travelling the 
country where is a whisky store, corresponding little old tavern and 
maybe some half a dozen air[y] houses which were builded in superb city.
imitation by an awkward architect but now [are] going to ruin with broken 
windows, unhung doors and peopled by the wretched and poor of the 
parish. It is named from the fre-quent fights which are here fomented 
probably by the stimulus of the spirits which it vends to those who 
frequent this little pande-monium. 
Took tea and proposed to spend the night at a friend's of Mr. 
Ouderkirk, Lagrange by name, a plain, hospitable farmer of Dutch 
[descent], which I soon found by their gibberish and pot cheese! His wife is 
a good, intelligent woman. 
As it always happens in the case of long seperated friends, so tonight 
Ouderkirk and his Dutch brethern watched till past midnight in mentioning 
the dear recollections of former interviews and the news of the day. It 
seemed an age to me who had to be but a blank in the company which 
expressed much of their sentiments in Dutch. 
Thursday August 30, 1832. "Aurora, fair daughter of the Dawn" soon 
stepped into my window and aroused me from my slumbers to see the all.
nature clothed in a robe of impenetrable fog which one might well cut with 
a knife. After the usual commonplace remarks at our morning meal, which 
was purely Dutch, we held our way towards the 
Helleberg mountain which lifts its lofty head 3 miles distant. 
Our object was to visit a cave which enters its side, in our way to which we passed many pleasant and retired seats where rural simplicity and contentment flourish in their extensive sway; the widely extended fields were loaded with the yellow grain which, instead of bowing gently in . graceful curves to the midday breese, now reared its golden head in solemn stillness, keeping pace with the various peculiarities and beauties 
of an autumnal morn. 
The sky was alternately favourable to a clear and uncloudy day and 
then threatening us decidedly with a plenteous shower. Scarcely had the 
21Z... 
mist which hung upon the top of the Helleberg been dissi-pated by the genial rays of the sun [and] we began to ascend its laborious decl[i]vity when about midway the land becomes more***** and flat, affording an ample place for some farms. This first rise seems to be but a broad extended base to a more abrupt and woody ascent which commences again after a few minutes walk on ahead. 
The mountain here runs in a nearly East-West direction and, as I am credibly informed, is but a spur of of the Catskill mountains. About 1 mile east of the Albany & Schoharie road we obtained those neccessaries viz. a lanthorn and candles, together with ample directions and cautions which are needed by those who undertake the difficult ascent, as it emphatically is, from Mr. Livingston's house, which is nearest to the cave. 
An immense rock of perhaps 20 ton's weight lies solitary in a pasture a few rods east of Mr. L's which without doubt in some convulsion of nature was severed from a high rocky cliff above and precipitated into space below. It lies sunken in the ground and quite shattered into large masses --the consequence of the fall of so loose and stratified masses as those which form the mountain. 
A thick growth of antient mountain ashes, oaks, pines and hemlocks cover[s] the almost perpendicular sides and the top of the mountain, and from the house up to the cave whose mouth is within a short distance of the top the loose rolling stones which have fallen down from above make it very troublesome travelling, especially if you have anything in hand to manage except yourself. 
We, however, after much exertion and many slips and falls, a[r]rived safe to the foot of the perpendicular rock which opens the fair portal leading into the mountain, comple[te]ly arched and of convenient height and width to admit 2 men abre[a]st and, for a great way along the summit both on the west and east of the cave, this crag[g]y precipice raises a formidable barrier and in some places overhangs the base a great distance and presents an imposing and frightful sight to the person below. 
Any plausible conjecture as to the formation of this wonderful cavern I have not yet heard advanced by any one of sufficient authority to gain cred[e]nce, nor could I find a satisfactory theory by which an enquiring and curious mind could rest with any degree of certainty. 
I am not enough a geologist and mineralogist to give a correct discriptlon of all the interesting curiosities or proper terms to the minerals which I there saw, but my concise and clumsy common-place remarks will serve my turn very well both to preserve some of the most prominent and useful facts for my future consideration and to amuse my uncouth genius in its foggy flights. 
It would be a great fund of pleasure to me if I could sketch some of these splendid scenes which I saw in my 3 days ramble either in the 
213 
gloomy caverns of the earth or the more extended and joy[ou]s views of the landscape. However, should nothing cross my intentions, I mean to acquire a certain degree of proficiency in the art so as in my future travels I may preserve a faint view of what is worth admiring in natural and artificial scenery. 
To the cave. It perhaps was once an immense fis[s]ure in the cliff which is formed of a rock so full of veins or little seams that it can be broke apart very easily into regular pieces of various forms --of square parrelelograms &c. weighing from a few pounds to hundreds. The course of the rent is parrell with the course of the chain viz. east and west altho' after entering the portal it inclines in a little, but probably in no part is the main way more than 20 or 30 ft. within the rock facing to the north east, so near does it pass the outside for the first 50 ft. that there are 2 openings towards the north high from the base, below the last of which like an immense niche is a conveni-ent place to light the candles and adjust for the remainder of the cold and gloomy way. On the even surface of many of the rocks here are seen the names of those who have visited it, scratched with various dates and residences annexed. 
Here I will mention a circumstance which if it afforded us pleasure at the time was manifold more satisfactory to me afterwards. 
We were scarcely come up to the cave than by a report from above and a welcome hail from some friendly voices who had pro-bably heard us sooner than we them, since we were at a great distance beneath them, it was found that a common cause had brot' us both there, they from the other side of the mountain and we from this. As I first found the entrance which they had been long in search of, by loud holl[e]ring they wound their way round to where we were, and being 3 in number found a very timely addition to our company which was before only O[uderkirk] and myself. 
Mr. Elias A. Brown, merchant of Albany, was the most interesting young gentleman of this trio, being formed peculiarly to please those into whose company he happens, if my discerning powers are not mistaken in their conception; the other, his cousin Andrew B., clerk in his uncle's wholesale store, 182 Pearl St., N. York, was stiller and not altogether so prepossessing in manners at first sight but after a little aquaintance I found to be a fine agreeable young fellow. The other was a plain country chap who came to conduct them into the cave. The 2 former have relatives living in Knox 5 miles distant and have been spending the summer there since the excitement, and stagnation of trade in the cities has been [?]. I have told sufficient concerning them --I found them a polite, agreeable kind company as I shall afterwards speak of. 
As I had no means of accurate measurement, the dimension[s] which I shall speak of will be merely from sight of eye and therefore necessarily subject to many inaccuracies. The distance to the first room, which is in the form of an inverted bowl 12 ft. high, is 15 or 20 paces; from there to the other, still larger, room is perhaps 30 or 40 more, the greater part of the way being high enough to admit a person upright, wide and arched. From the 2d room 2 ways branch off the one to the left, a narrow muddy fissure, the other to the right being the principal access, broad but so low near the en trance of the next narrow room that one is forced to almost crawl --a not very pleasurable job on the little sharp stones with mud about the consistency of brick mortar. This 3d space or room, altho narrow, rises high and forms a complete Gothic arch affording some of the most beautiful specimens of stalactites found in the whole extent, which on the whole are but poor compared to what would have been had not our predecessors taken all and left but paltry picking for us! I however had a sufficient number of moderate rarity to observe the curious works of nature, many of which grow not dim appaced[?] by time like the labours of art but grow brighter and brighter, increas-ing in worth and enlarging in size. 

Many of these stalactites, which form the principle atraction within the cave, are suspended like i[s]icles from the roof, continually increasing in length and size as the water oozes through and secretes the calcareous substance of which they are exclusively madeá. 
By passing on thro' a narrow difficult passage, I have been told, one can emerge at some distance from the rocks at an immense distance from the base, but sufficient was the distance which I entered to satisfy my curiosity, especially after having entered a little way into that left hand pass[age] of which I spoke before, filled with water and mud. We occupied 2 or 3 hours in all about this subterrene and when we saw light of day one who had seen us before would have wondered at our strange metamorphose which was [more like?] mud-diggers than any other animal --our pockets -were heavy laden with precious stones, our knees weak and sore by creeping and going half-bent, and our ardor for research well cooled by the damp chills of the inner region, yet our minds were eased and longings satisfied with what we had seen. 
We possibly went in 150 or 200 ft. 
The sides are in many cases covered with a thick coat of stalac-tites to the thickness of an inch or more. Our friends so hardly pressed us to go over to their abode and tomorrow to Scoharie,where is another famous cavern, that I yielded, and Ouderkirk tho' reluctantly returned. After a walk of nearly a mile the wood opened to our view the welcome prospect of pleasant field[s] and verd[a]ent pastures and our little path, scarcely discernable from its disuse, being in the winter I presume a sled road by which wood is drawn to the neighboring farm houses, now merged into a carriage path, while the [sun] poured down his heavy influence upon our weary bodies. 

There is one singular fact which I can but mention. The land this side of the Helleberg is as high if not higher than the mountain itself, extending back at the same height many miles towards another range. Not improperly might this be denominated the "table land" since it so much resembles that of Mexico. Till within a few miles of Scoharie I perceived no descent to the old level which is found north before coming to the Helleberg. The air is pure and healthy on this high prominence and the land rich and productive. 
After arriving at "Pucker Street" in the town of Knox with my friends and partaking of a welcome repast, I was again during the remainder of the day highly amused and entertained in examining the peculiar formation of the original rock of the country which, altho' of a hard quartz (perhaps it is), contained in[n]umerable shells, scallops, muscles, clams and every species of marine shells firm imbed[d]ed in it, confusedly resembling wonderfully the pudding-stone on the "Boston Mill Dam" only instead [ofT pebbles intermixed are marine remains and a soft manageable stone, a hard flinty granite incapable of any profitable manufacture except stone wall. Some of it, however, is rather more soft than I have said but I think. the greater part is impenetrable almost by by the drill and hammer. These shells altho' in such abundance are seldom obtained whole from their flinty bed since they are all petrified and as it were become incorporated into the very stone itself, but most beautiful impressions are left when they are shivered from the bed in which they lie, which is very easily done owing to their being very thin and brittle. 
In a yard of Dr. William's but a few rods back of his house is a natural excavation in this peculiar rock ( over which a little creek passes near) about 12 ft deep and of 5 in diameter, rather irregular in its make by the rough and pointed rock which forms this singular hole; into this the Doct. has introduced a wheel turned by the water of the neighboring brook, capable of sawing all his wood, [the] wheel operating on suitable machinery which tho' simple he has now in use. The depth of the hole forms the fall requisite for the turning a wheel which otherwise could not have been found at all, but what forms the most singular property of this wonderful cavern is that by numerous fisures in the rock, made from the bottom upwards, whatever quantity of water is poured in from above it, all escapes and nowhere has yet been found to emerge again to light of day. In the bottom are procured some most perfect specimens of shells petrified in the rocks. 
During all the remainder of the day I was loaded with civilities of my kind friends and felt a heart mutually expand to all the kindnesses of theirs. I collected numerous curiosities which I still preserve for their rarity and admire for the singular formation in which they appear. 
The day closed with a bright promise from the west of a fair return of day, asáthe sun sunk gently to his bed behind the hills bristled in the the thick forrest which now appeared all in solar blaze, piercing their shaggy tops high into the golden clouds and crimson tints of ethereal splendor. read Shakespeare half an hour to my clerkly companion and then submitted myself to the arms of Morpheus. 
Friday August 31, 1832. I arose long before the sun from the bal-conies of the east poured his welcome light upon the rejoicing earth. The sky was clear and serene, the dew drops glistened upon the grass like gems and the warbling notes of the early birds kept apace with the opening morn, under whose mild and cooling air the haymaker trudged to his work with sounding scythe and the milkmaid tripped sprightfully over the green with her well-poised milking-pail. At 61/2 we packed our selves into a Dutch waggon with a couple of wide chairs corresponding well to the uncouth appear-ance of the vehicle and began our intended excursion towards Scoharie uphill and down in right jolly style. 
The appearance of the country is not very peculiar nor interesting but shows that plain monotonous landscape which we everyday see in the country. Interspersed here and there the little farm houses appear peeping above an orchard with a curling smoke ascending from their chimneys to the clouds. The high rock which I yesterday called the "table land" at Gallupville, where is a small village with mills, begins to slope towards that other back range or parrellel chain of mountains which I spoke of before. By a stop of a few minutes at Gallupville we increased our company to 5 persons. From this village to Scoharie, a distance of 5 or 6 miles, the road which has now descended from the high land to a level flat on the banks of the creek which empties into Scoharie Creek is remarkably level and smooth while on the left lies rich flats loaded with their almost spontaneous productions and the creek (which I have forgotten the name of) and on the right a high ridge of land generally covered with wood of various kinds in growth. 
Altho' we rode in full view of the village yet, as we were in haste and our journey lay not thro' it, we contented ourselves only with the view, which is delightful. The valley of Scoharie, which is proverbial for its beauty of situation and fertility of soil, lies on both sides of the Scoharie Creek which runs north from this place about 20 miles where it falls into the Mohawk near Ft. Hunter. The flats may be from 1/2 mile to 1 mile in width, from which on the west side the ground rises so abruptly that it seems to be a precipice of 200 or 300 ft. in perpendicular height. About midway is seen a stratum of rock some ft. in thickness projecting from the rough uneven surface, which is so steep that scarcely any vegitation can grow on its sides. This precipice and rocky prominence, which extends some distance above and below, that is up and down the creek, exhibit the appearance of once having been worn thro' by the attrition of the creek which has in a course of time descended to its present humble bed. The east bank slopes more gently from the hills to the flats and is cultivated up its side to some distance besides in some places. Many orchards are seen loaded with luxuriant fruit of various kinds. The more immediate bank of the creek is finely fringed with high firs whose dark tops almost meet, forming a beautiful arch above this lovely stream while in some parts the lofty elm is exchanged for the more humble water willow. The meandering copse and silver expanse of the stream can be seen combined with its narrow banks which it so sweetly kisses. 

A white stone church is now seen but a short distance northeast of the village which was said to have served during [the] Indian Wars for a garrison but is now turned to the sacred use of the church. 
The village -is quite small containing a courthouse; but it has been severely visited by the cholera notwithstanding the salubrity of the climate and the beauty of the landscape. 
In going to the cavern which lies about 4 miles N.E. of the village, one is obliged to pass up a very steep and ston[e]y road for a great part of the way, almost wholly uninhabited on account of the wildness and sterility of the land, as I should suppose, altho' much good land might perhaps with labor be tilled. 
We left our waggon at Widow Wilbur['s] whose house is most convenient for stoppage to those who come from the Albany road or the village. Having attained all neccessary preparations, together with 2 guides, we set off across the country by a foot path and quickly entered the forrest, after passing a couple of little log cabins, in which the cave's mouth opens. It [is] a most singular place for a subter[r]aneous excavation of such dimensions as it is! The woods which surround it are of the ordinary growth on a very good soil not at all rocky in appearance but rather inclined to be moist as I should suppose. The mouth (of the cave) descends in the form of a tunnel to the depth of about 12 ft. where it is narrowed to a diameter of 3 or 4 ft. by the rocks of which the cave is wholly composed and which do not appear probably till at this depth below the natural soil. At this place the visitor attaches a rope to his waist and is lowered down [a] 40 ft. perpendicular descent by a man above who, for the sake of safety and ease, passes it 2 or 3 times around a strong pole, 
of  which  there  are  many  thrown  over  the  mouth  to  prevent  any  
obstructions  being  thrown  down  which  have  often  been  done  by  
mischevious  fellows.  
This  first  shaft,  which  is 40  ft. deep,  continues  about  the  same  

diameter till near the bottom where it widens into a large space especially 
216 
on the north side as I took it to be, by the aid of a long pole which has been inserted and the unevenness of the surface, many experienced persons have descended without a rope as did our last guide who came after us but every stranger ought to be especially careful to be prepared with a strong rope since in the event of a slip upon the slim[e]y rocks or pole his life would not be worth a six pence in sur[e]ty. Having all alighted at this place and taken burning candles, we scrambled down 40 ft. farther over loose rocks which are sometimes so steep as to make the descent dangerous and difficult; at the bottom we all held our lights aloft and altho' they afforded a splendid appearance, so dark is the place and the walls so gloomy that we could scarcely discern the roof. I think it is at least 40 ft. 
[in] hight. One can hardly imagine a more impressing scene than to stand at the top of the second descent and see those who are below scattered along, each with a candle in his hand securing his slippery way by caution while every sound is magnified to an astonishing loudness. I will here mention that one of my companions fired a pistol in the Livingston Cave yesterday which made a report [like?] to a cannon --our ears rang with the deafening noise and the reverberations were heard in a deep hollow moan. At the bottom of this grand hall or court, as it may be called, center 2 low passages on the right and left thro' which a brook of the coldest and purest water I ever saw [emerges?] almost at right angles, which by running down the left avenue a rod or 2 becomes what is called the lake. It appears that the lake extend-ed once up to place on which you land in descending to the bottom of the cave, but that it has been filled up with sand brat' down by the brook. The right hand passage is not practicable on account of low-ness and the left, being higher and leading to the principal curiosi-ties, is altogether used. 
The most satisfactory theory áor explanation of this wonderful curiosity is this. At the depth of 80 feet below the surface there is a subteraneous riv[u]let whose source and outlet no one has yet discovered, down to which there is a passage made in the rock by nature herself. 
Two boats have been constructed of boards for the accoma-dation of visitors, by the aid of which we were ferryed over the lake that varies from 6 ft. to 10 ft. in width and from 4 to 30 ft. in depth, almost still. It put me in mind forcibly of the description which Virgil gives in his Aeneid of Char[r]on's boat and passage over the river Styx, while sitting in our fickle and crazy bark, hardly light enough to carry us 400 or 500 ft. without bailing it out and turning some of the abrupt corners in our narrow river. 
The roof is but just high enough to admit a person sitting upright in the boat untill the end of the lake where it arises to a surprising height, and throughout the whole distance the arch above has a gro[o]ve made of such dimensions as exactly to receive the hat which otherwise one could not conveniently wear while navigating this chilly stream. The fantastic 
2-19 
forms of calcareous substances which the water by filtration leaves on the sides and tops are numerous and pleasing not only to the scholar but also to him of moderate attainments who admires the fanciful works of nature in the wildest and most unartful state. After landing on the farther end of the lake begins a clay bottom which to one not very cautious will occasion some falls. We clambered up a slipery rock 10 or 12 ft. when we came into the great chamber about 40 ft. square and 20 high, the bottom of which is very uneven and formed entirely of clay which is very elastic and tough, as also are the walls, but the roof is of a hard flinty rock of black cast from which water is continually dropping, causing the most beautiful stalactites and also the clay to become very soft. From all appearances this vast room was formed by the settling down of this clay from the stratum of rock which is above, for if it were not so the sides would be of rock as well as the top and so would the bottom. Now I have the impression that this whole subterane had its origin in this manner. 
There is a vast stratum of rock extending over the country in these parts of SO or 60 ft in thickness, having a soil of 10 or 12 ft. above and resting upon a bed of stiff clay, besides there are many great fisures and holes in it. (This is a fact, for I saw many deep holes into which brooks fall thro' which the water by a continual flow runs in ample quantity, wearing away a channel for itself after ages beneath the rock. ) The water, after working its way for some dis-tance below ground, probably comes to light again in the form of springs, and again collect[s] its dispersed waters into some of these mountain streams. 
Well, we are now in the big room, from the right of which we entered another of lesser dimensions very rich in curious formations: at the left end of the great hall, a guide and another gentleman with myself entered a very low passage near the top, up to which we crawled with some difficulty. The roof was so low that we were obliged to walk on our hands and knees for a great way but were amply repaid inasmuch as we obtained some of the rarest specimens which the cave contains. I saw many detached pieces of calcareous formations as large as I could lift and, when broken with a hammer, very white and pure. The roof was covered with little stalactites resembling isicles and my guide obtained one very nearly resemb-ling a candle stick. 
After tarrying 2 1/2 hours we again saw daylight and felt the warming influence of the sun, having been thoroughly cooled by the cold atmosphere of this subterrane. We returned by a different and much shorter road which intercepts the Albany road at the village of Gallupville where we partook of an exellent and welcome dinner to which we did justice, for our appetites were sharpened by hard exercise and long abstinence. The country is in this region very hilly and mountainous, more strikingly resembling the bleak summits of Vermont and N. Hampshire 
220 
than any other part of N. York which I have seen. Scoharie is principly settled by Dutch and their descendents. 
I had almost forgotten to say that we came near being drenched by a smart shower, which probably would have been the case had we not driven into a barn which was providentially open for our reception. In passing a brook near Gallupville we were in sight of a place where is said to [be] a soda spring but owing to our haste did not stop to visit. I however will mention the singular properties of a little brook which at the bridge that we crossed falls into the main brook on which are many mills for sawing timber. 
It comes down from the mountains and on the pebbles which form its bed there is a calcareous coat very white and resembling that often seen in caves. As far up as I had time to examine I found this same formation adhering to every stone laved by its water but as soon as it mixes with the other brook, instead of a white bottom are seen the dadc colored stones which usually constitute the bed of our common brooks. It is my opinion that the water of this brook in its way hither rubs a rock of limestone as its bed (perhaps this is thesame water which performs a subteraneous pilgr[i]mage thru' the cave) and being thus impregnated with lime secretes it upon the stones which it laves. 
It was 1/2 past 6 before I was ready to begin my journey this afternoon from Pucker Street to Schenectady, which I was obliged to commence in order to redeem the time lost in this rambling exhibition. I followed the same way which I before took in coming to Pucker Street from Livingston Cave that if possible I might find my lost handkercheif in the woody top of Helleberg, but night crept upon apace, finding me 2 or 3 miles from the place where I proposed to spend the night. Besides a black storm was arising in the west hiding the faint rays of the sun now nearly set. 
The outward appearance of a farm house invited me to seek a shelter from the approaching rain andálowering night and the kind manner of its occupant told me I was doubly welcome than I had expected. A few hours chat soon brot' on the hour of retirement, with pattering rain upon the windows which struck heavily to my heart now 16 miles from Schenectady. My slumbers soon closed the scenes of this day's labour. 
Saturday September 1, 1832. I arose betimes this morning much refreshed with a good sleep and encouraged to prosecute my journey since nothing but fog now obscured the face of nature's mantle and the deep saphire of the sky. In the course of the night the clouds had cleared away and when the sun arose and the hanging mists had been dissipated by his warm beams I had the bright promise of a beautiful day. My kind host nor hostess would except of anything for my lodging. I took my leave thanking 
221 
them for their kindness. In turning from the road upon the mountain, on account of the multiplicity of ways by which _it is crossed and marked, I lost my way and was obliged to retrace my steps a mile or 2 .with a sorrowful heart, but at last amid all the intricacies of the way, I regained the little logging path which we travelled 2 days before, and to my great satisfaction found my handkercheif. It was solemn and impressive to be in such a deep and solitary wilderness, rendered doubly interes-ting by loud shrieks of the wild birds and the lovely carols of the lesser tribe; the dew drops were drop[p]ing all around from the lofty forrest trees upon the dry leaves, with a pattering noise, and the undisturbed solitude by any of the busy works of man here reigned with unlimited sway, giving a most secure retreat and pleasurable range for natures children. In passing along my boots became no security to my feet from the penetrating dew that rested upon the rank wild grass which had never yet felt the keen edge of the scythe or been cropped by the wandering ox. The little oaks and maples, too, which had grown to the height of áa foot or more and so dense as completely to cover the ground held abundance of water in their little hands, which a very slight disturbance would precipitate to the ground in large globules. With much ad[o] I however gained the foot of the mountain by a steep and slippery ravine down its side, finding myself a little above Mr. Livingston 1s and 1/2 a mile east of the main road between Albany and Scoharie. This I soon gained and a tavern where a good breakfast refreshed me wonderfully for a 14-mile walk to Schenectady. 
Suffice it to say that I came home about 12 tired and stiff with carrying a handkercheif full of curious specimens of stones which I had picked up on my rout , but notwithstanding my fatigue I transcribed 14 pages this afternoon before going to bed. It is some-somthing of a bore to write so long a narration of my rambles and brings me somewhat behindhand in other things. 
Sunday September 2, 1832. Four persons were added to our church by baptism and our communion day as usual brot1 our full assembly together. To me it was solemn and impressive because I am unhumbled for this ordinance, and the general tone of my inclinations tend to earthly objects rather than heavenly. My eyes are like the fools, wandering to the ends of the earth; my profession is like that of the hypocrite, clo[a]ked under the raiment-of religion but inwardly vile; my downcast looks and sober countenance bespeak in the sight of God twofold more my condemnation. I am of the earth, earthy. The ways of God are not my ways, neither are his thats, my thats. I desire not a knowledge of his ways, neither is He in all my thats." Oh wretched man that I am," may I well exclaim. My life is a thread of lies and a chain of damnation; if I change not, what can save me! 
Monday September 3,1832. 

"Early to bed and early to rise, Makes a man healthy wealthy and wise." old adage 
I cannot conceive anything in the ordinary routine of daily concerns which gives so much satisfaction to the mind, health to the body and exhiliaration to the spirits as early rising. We feel not that we have any new healing property imparted, perhaps, to our physical powers, but the balm is in the mind and by its operation in part exer[c]ises its sway over the body, altho' it cannot be disputed but what early rising is substantially a benefit to the body and not imaginary. Now its cheif pleasure in my view arises cheifly from outward circumstances -the greensward is covered with pearly dew --the sky is clear and serene, imparting pleasure to the eye --the busy hum of business and preparation is hushed, and we seem [the] sole person who views this delightful scene and enjoys its beauty. We trip forth with gay elastic step and inhale the cool breezes of morning till the majestic sun arises in his might and arouses every dormant spirit. 
Tuesday September 4, 1832. 
As in a swines snout a jewel of gold So is a fair woman shameless and bold. versified from Prov(erbs] 
I have been proposing to myself a short study of Algebra that by acquiring the first principles I might be the better prepared to begin easily next term, but my rambles and reading, writing and lounging have so occupied me that 'tis but seldom I can open Algebra. 
I approve not generally of a students anticipating term studies but I believe he ought, if he pleases, to apply those helps to his use which will enable him to further his attainment in knowledge; as for instance, if he needs a better acquaintance with his grammar or Arithmetic upon commencing collegiate life, he ought by all means to nerve himself during vacancies to make a competent proficiency that will enable him to proceed with ease and honor at other times in his class. Unless one is fully bent upon industry and perseverence in whatever study he enters, a previous knowledge of it is apt to make him remiss in attention [to] it. 
Wednesday September 5, 1832. Cholera reports for the last week: 7, a falling off of 3 from the week before. 

The flagrant act that satisfies 
The hungry theif, do not dispise. 
Proverbs 
I have caught a cold which together with a slight diarrh[a]ea constitutes me sick enough not to risk my selfish life outdoors, which I have no inclination to do as I now feel. My bones ache unaccountably and a crazing commotion in my head disturbs my peace so that I can neither sleep or be awake with comfort. I have despised the weakness of human nature much more than formerly, since I read the thrilling descriptions of man's fall and disobedience given in such glowing language by Milton. He dies by his own fault. God never decreed the death of any of his creatures but as the fruit of sin for the commi[ss]ion of which no being short of heavenly purity ought to pride himself on his goodness, or in other words, should think himself exellent above the vilest and most abominable offen.der. Let him look upon this vile and sickly chest in which is deposited the most precious, but neglected jewel, let him consider [to?] which he has fallen --the infinite purity, the healthiness, peace, happiness, and holiness; let him but compare himself with heavenly intelligences whose intellects as much surpass his as the heavens the earth; let him look at the brevity, misery and all the various ills incident to human life and earth; let him but consider his dependence, that every breath that he breathes and every motion that he makes is by the sufferance of God --and man will be at once humbled, never will he arrogate to himself such high attainment as pride and vanity excite, nor will the golden purity of his life be mentioned more. 
Thursday September 6, 1832. 
Open rebuke is far above The price of true, but secret love. Proverbs 
We have the singular phenomenon this year of December weather in September. I am yet unwell and fear I may be obliged to take medicine. 
Friday September 7,1832. I still continue to house myself. I find no relief from the diar[rhea] but shall endeavour to gain such tomorrow if it does not stop before, by a small calomel pill which above all things I despise. Dr. McDougle came up to see me yesterday and after a long talk of an hour concluded to'give me the well-known cure-all --a small potion of calomel. He is one of those old talkative physicians who are on wonderful good terms with the women for he favours their caprices and strings long stories to their infinite satisfaction. It is funny to listen to his long sentences uttered in a deep sonorous tone of voice which is continued with such unceasing flow of words that when by chance he hesitates to gather fresh breath and a little collection of mind, the ear gains remarkable relief from his extreme volubility. 

Saturday September 8, 1832. Nichols and his friend Crane came last night, not having intimation that the College vacation was lengthened. They are wonderfully disappointed, as well as Mr. Pollard and Dean, who arrived today. 
Sunday September 9, 1832. On this Lords day I remained at home for the first time since I have been in Schenectady and this on ac[count] of the diarrhea. Altho' I would not approve frequent absence from church, yet I am persuaded that no one need vacate his seat in church and at the same time lose all capability of spending the sabbath to advantage, for God can be worshiped in every place and every heart can be made a fit temple for the Holy Spirit to dwell in. But ever should one attend the weekly ministrations in the Lord's house unless prevented by some necessity. 
Monday September 10, 1832. 
Go to the ant; prise her ways, and be wise. Proverbs 
I look upon this life more meanly than most other persons, if my observation deceives me not, and especially do the changes of fashion and the trappings of worldly vanity look dispicable in my view. I admire the man who is careful to clothe and adorn the mind with knowledge but is unsolicitous what food nourishes the body, only it be wholesome, or what apparel clothes it, if the needful warmth and decency is imparted thereby. This crazy hat was made as my prison house of probation in which my soul must sojourn the time alloted by the creator, not as an everlasting abode so that it should be so highly ornamented and patched with gaudy trappings and ta[w] dry tinsel even thro' which coverings its frail workmanship and corruptible make is obvious to every passerby. God never formed the soul for the body; if so, its flights after immortality would have been confined within the narrow bounds of earths limits and have been satisfied with the participation of mere earthly joys. The material was intended only as the depository of the spiritual for a time in which by acts of godliness, prayer and every good word and work it might be made fit for mansions beyond the skies. 

Man has perverted the intentions of the Almighty in relation to himself and has with few exeptions placed his "summum bonum" in the body. The soul is made subservient, its capability of immeasur-able flights towards knowledge, holiness and joy is forgotten amidst the lumber of terrestrial trifles [under] which it lies hid. When will the people learn? When will the nations know instruction? 
Tuesday September 11, 1832. 
Hatred and anger gendereth strife 
But affection's the essence of life. 
Proverbs 
Very windy cold day. Three cousins, Mehitable, Sarah and Wm. Libbey, arrived unexpectedly from Newburgh and prevented my intended journey to Albany. 
22£ 
Wednesday September 12, 1832. 
A wise man's heart is at his right 
The fool's desires are opposite. 
Eccles[iastes] 
Thursday September, 13, 1832. Cold weather and a dirty air keep me pretty close. How ***** [sweet?] the name of a kindred sounds to the ear even tho' the possessor has never been seen by you before. The same blood strives to run in the same channel of affection and has her strong ties as well as love and friendship. Anomalies are however found among the interesting titles of brother, sister, father and mother as it respects the***** of binding endearment as in the numberless attachments of friendship. Man often wars against his brother in the depravity ***** and ***** of his mind and of his heart and fickleness of his mind and breaks the most solemn engagements that friendship could form or honour strengthen. How long will man contrive the accomplishments of the most foul and despicable deeds! How long make the black acts of hell itself comparative purity by his unruly passions! 
..----.
Friday September 14, 183 2. 
"Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them. So Shakespeare says. 
The second must be my lot if even [that]. I have not the splendid talents of Newton, Milton, Byron and Shakespeare, neither the warlike energies of Bonaparte, Washing [ton], C[ae]sar, but whatever I do must be accomplished [by] labour, industry and perseverence. Had I riches the great would court my favour; did the seas groan beneath the rich loads of my tributary fleets or was the gold of my coffers plent[e]ous; were I a fool in intellect, sycophants would kiss my feet and flatterers devour my soul; but the poor wise man -."none's so mean as to do him reverence." 
Saturday September 15, 1832. What a novel is the book of a mans life! His hairbreadth escapes, changes and wanderings up and down the earth in search of nothing but something new, his knotty encounters, unheard of adventures and marvellous dangers--all furnish an admirable volume of instructing novelty. 
227 
Sunday September 16, 1832. 1 have but little goodness. It is like theá morning cloud and early dew which soon passeth away and leaves me wholly engulphed in the vast whirlpool of earthly pursuits, and vain they are, at best. Soon as the soul burst these fetters which bind it here on earth, if fitly prepared fr will rang[e] at large on the heavenly hills of the New Jerusalem where complaints will cease. 
Monday September 17, 1832. Oh how the business of every hour presses upon me with overwhelming force! My mind is perplexed, my flesh is weary --and yet the beginning is but entered upon in the courts of life's career. 
Tuesday September 18, 1832. The rest of a labouring man is sweet --:.his hours pass smoothly on and his minutes are not irksome. 
Wednesday September 19, 1832. Cousin William Ubbey returned yesterday to his home in order to resume his studies. Thus far in my life I think I have been considered by others little better than a dunce and perhaps with truth, too. I am slow of comprehension and easy to forget, my abilities are hardly ordinary, everything that I accomplish must be done by the most unwearied patience and application. 
Thursday September 20, 1832. Who can lose a moment? But a span is allotted to us here in which to do work for eternity. Misery needs to be alleviated, want to be supplied, the heathen to be preached to and the naked clothed. Sinners are dying and the Devil going about as a hungry lion seeking whom he may devour. 0 why will man thus waste his years and spend his days for naught? 
Friday September 21, 1832. Man's only well-grounded hope is in the manner of life, for on it hangs all the momentous concerns of eter.nity. It is never permitted him to laugh if he but look upon the mournful scene which this world presents. Millions die yearly; thousands die hourly; and with all this mortality how many go to eternal perdition: then why not mourn and weep? 
Saturday September 22, 1832. The week rolls on and soon brings the sabbath, so rolls life and ushers in the sabbath of eternal rest. 
Sunday September 23, 1832. How short and unsatisfactory are the pleasures of sense! but a lingering moment intervenes between them and the long bit[t]ing pains of remorse and satiety of earthly good. A 
2M 
thousand times it has been proclaimed with a loud voice which cannot be mistaken that the soul is insatiable by material food. It is a proverb in every mouth but a truth which is least realized even by its most strenuous supporters. 
Monday September 24, 1832. For a number of days I have been busily engaged making a blackboard which from my uns\dJfulness in using tools goes on leisurely. 
Cousin Sarah, who has gone down home, and I rode to Albany together in the cars, where I saw and left her on board the New Philadelphia. 
My chum and I spent most of the evening in travelling the streets, many of which are very fine, viz. Pearl, Market and State Sts. Retired late at night tired and sleepy from my afternoons jaunt and evening ramble about the city. 
Tuesday September 25, 1832. I awoke early and the rain was patting wo[e]fully upon the windows, the sky portended a long storm and the anticipated pleasure of having some curiosities about town was at once dashed. 
Sic gaudium mundi transit. However, my hopes revived when after breakfast the torrents ceased gradually their rush and by noon the sun broke forth from a cloud. I shall not attempt a minute and lengthy detail of every curiosity, for time would fail me. Robt. M. K. Strong and I spent most of the forenoon at [the] Court of Common Pleas listening to the various cases which were brought up, decided and shuffled off in much rapid succession, showing a very business style of proceeding. A poor fellow was sentenced 2-years to the state prison for intended burglary. I pitied him. The principal buildings are the City Hall, a splendid marble edifice, the Academy, of red fieldstone both ample and costly, 10 or a doz. fine churches besides the Capitol and some others which I have omitted. For the first time I have seen these splendid steamboats which plough the waters of the Hudson. 
I took tea with Mr. Brown and walked to West Troy before 9 o'clock. 
Wednesday September 26, 1832. This has been as beautiful a day as I've seen for a long time. 
With the rising sun I arose and began my journey up the canal, not waiting to view the Arsenal as I had anticipated because time .would not permit. On the opposite side lay the city of Troy where already the busy hum of business, the rolllng of wheels and the sound of busy preparation was heard mingling their delightful sounds with the deep sullen roar of the distant waterfalls above, adding new joy and pleasure to the delightful scene which lay before me. 

The canal lays all the way on the banks of the swift Mohawk which I found to [be] remarkably so from its source till it enters the Hudson. 
Three miles above Troy commence the 9 locks which together with others overcome a great descent. Here is seen the commence.ment of a large cotton manufacturing establishment and a splendid covered bridge from which a most grand view of Cohoes Falls is had. 
They were the object of all my travel; here as well as the whole distance from its junction to Schenectady the river is very broad and -shallow, so much so that its surface is continually rippled. The banks near the falls is more than an hundred ft, high per[pen]dicularly, composed of soft earthy stone which easily yields to time and the pick. 
The fall of 60 ft. which extends across the river is not quite perpendicular but so near so as only to ruffle the water enough to give it a most beautiful, white, snowy appearance, neither does the water completely fill the whole breadth but creeps down in the cavities and unevenness of the rocky fall. I passed down a ravine below the fall and by the aid of bare rocks and the lowness of the water walked to the middle of the river and close to the foot of the cataract whose rushing waters agitated the air into a wind and sent up clouds of spray which fell in rain upon me. But what I most particularly noticed was a perfect rainbow which, begin[n]ing at my feet, made an entire circle as high as the opposite bank. This was a phenomenon of which I have heard but never witnessed till then. 
Time will not permit me to relate so minutely as I could wish. Suffice it to say I was very satisf[i]ed. I now walked forward on my journey to overtake a boat in which I wished to ride. I crossed the river at the aqueduct built on 25 stone piers 12 miles below the upper [falls] and walked on at a horse pace 9 miles before I could possibly overtake a boat. 
Thursday September 27, 1832. When the good pleasure of God will call me away from this world of mis[s]ery I know not, neither do I feel much sollcitation, for the more of its sin I view the more does it disaffect me. 
Man is the only cause of all sin and death. Ah, his devilish desire to be what h[e] is. He will still wallow in his own mire. 
230 
Friday September 28, 1832. I now am preparing for another col.legiate term which the Lord only knows whether I shall finish. 
Saturday September 29,1832. Oh time! time! How much of it have I squandered. How much worse than lost because spent in sin. Oh vain infatuated man, will he not start from his reverie and live for immortality . 
. Strong has returned and also a goodly number of others. 
Sunday September 30, 1832. I do most sincerely love and venerate the soul, that image and part of God himself, but how could I love this vile body which chains its noble tenant to its own beastly appetites? Can I ever love my body better than my spirit, a material body than a spiritual? God forbid. I know I speak the truth when I say I look upon myself as a most vile and fallen being. No soundness .is found upon me, my very that is damnable, bearing along with it his own condemnation. 
A prolonged meeting commenced on Saturday. Gillet preached in the want of other ministers. 
Monday October 1, 1832. How shall I redeem my time for the future? Not a day, week or month but is my most audible monitor, not a stroke of the bell but all the moments passing swifter than the wings of the wind or the forked lightning. 
Tuesday October 2, 1832. Dr. Proudfit teaches us in Greek and Latin, Totten in Algebra. Our studies are both interesting and easy. What hinders a profitable and pleasant season? Amen. 
Wednesday October 3, 1832. Seldom during a session does my servile mind send forth pure and holy aspirations after godliness. 
Thursday October 4, 1832. This dull uneasy pain at the bottom of my ribs is now again disquieting me. I know not how long the space of my continuance is here on earth. Shorter or longer, let me be pre.pared for an exit. 
Friday October 5, 1832. Our class is now quite large amounting in all to nearly SO, of whom all those who entered this term and the Fresh.men room at the old college (now courthouse and jail) in the city. Many of the sophomores are good students, but among this number will be found, as in every other case, many who fall far short of 
mediocrity. 
23/ 
Saturday October 6, 1832. Attended Society as usual. In the after.noon I was at a full meeting of the church in the vestry. Seventeen individuals presented themselves as candidates for baptism and related God's doings with them. It was a solemn season with us all, considering the blessings with which God has visited this little vine. Not a soul of the congregation has been taken away by death during the wasting pestilence but goodness and mercy have attended our path all our days thus far. 
Sunday October 7, 1832. Fifleen persons were baptised and added to the church notwithstanding the inclemency of the weather. Numbers visited the usual place of baptism. 
Monday October 8, 1832. I go thro' with the usual routine of study from day to day and week to week which bring[s] scarcely any new thing except now and then a 11Section Court~" and a "barring 11 of some officer whose presence is too often seen in the students rooms at night. 
Tuesday October 9,1832. The thirst for novelty which is pleasing will never be lost by man. It is the natural consequence of the stay of the soul among material things [which] cannot satisfy but amuse. We have Section Courts now almost every day and on trivial occasions; in a few days their power to please will be gone and some new excite.ment must be found. 
Wednesday October 10,1832. Doct. Joslin says the pain in my side is a chronic complaint which a blister or cupping will remove. I hope it is so, but my fears have often been excited for my life. This I know -.that at longest my dwelling will not be this clay nor these the things with which I shall have to do, but a brighter world opens upon my view whose Builder and Governor is God. Oh like Paul may I live and die. 
Thursday October 11,1832. How oft do the gloomy anticipations come brooding over the mind at night or in the hour of adversity when we are cast helpless and forlorn upon the mercy of God and our own resour[c]es. The soul then wants that heavenly range which she will hereafter find on the heavenly hills of New Jerusalem. 
232.. 
Friday October 12, 1832. Every prank which a witty invention can contrive is played by the rogues of the college, but a few evenings ago I was awoke by a tremendous jar at midnight which I took for an earthquake at the moment. Next morning the great potash kettle, which "General," the servant, uses in washing rooms, was found in the South Sec. filled with stones. 
Saturday, October 13,1832. As the Doct. advised, so I did in regard to my side. I put on a blister last night which altho' it kept me awake is by no means a good one because the plaster was not. My blister and a very bad cold made a very bad day for me. I am ashamed of myself whenever I think of the unfinished work which remains to be accomplished by me in Christs cause ere I die. Almost 3 years I have received his consolations but not 3 days have I served him as I ought. The imaginations of my heart have been evil continually. 
Tacitus is a very knotty author to a beginner until he has become familiar with his very concise style. He hardly expresses sufficient of his meaning to be intellegible. This is considered a fault in his writing by some criticks. 
Sunday October 14,1832. On this cold and windy day 8 men and women were buried with Christ by baptism in the Mohawk. "Hinder me not," they said, and who could forbid water. Oh! did my soul but enter upon the performance of its incumbent duties, did it follow on to know the Lord in all his appointed ways and serve him with a perfect heart and willing mind, the incorruptible fruits of well doing would cling fast around me, filling up my full measure of earthly happiness, which is but a foretaste of that better inheritance that fadeth not away, eternal in the heavens. As long inaction stup[e]fies the body and incapacitates it for its wonted duties, and as delay of a crossing performance the more heightens our aversion to it, and the probability of not doing it [at] all, so with the soul in a spiritual life. A man who has long defered his duty wishes not to know it lest his conscience should impel him to do it, which is grievous to the flesh. How can he who sings not here expect to sing the song of Moses and the Lamb in heaven? Will he know the delightful chorus or be delighted with His charming service? 
Monday October 15,1832. In the swelling of my empty mind I often look upon myself with a great degree of pleasure, comparing my attainments with many around, but so soon as I look up to the God of nature how mean is man. I am but of yesterday and nothing in thy sights. Thou are from eternity to eternity, all heavens cannot contain 
233 
thee, I am but of a moments duration, and a narrow house will contain all my members. 
Tuesday October 16,1832. I wish to live with God ever before my eyes, within my soul and around me as my front guard and rearward. 
This short stay of 4 or 3 years in College is but a poor criterion of a man's future life, if he be ever so ambitious, and after this short career relaxes his exertions towards honour and usefulness, back.ward will flow the tide of time upon him, while onward perhaps will press his once inferior associates. Thousands prove my assertion. 
A man must lean upon himself and poor must he be indeed who will live content with to be. God grant that my immortal part may be such as never to let me be but an idler in time. My soul was made for infinite improvement of which this is but the primary lesson. In this, God has placed the only laudible and sinless ambition in improvement whether of ourselves or others, for to do good to others is [to] help ourselves. 
Wednesday October 17,1832. I never till within a few months very fully realised the worth of time and man's utter recklessness in spending it. Precious, unappreciated time! The purchaser of heaven or hell! If I lived upon the [comity?] of a few individual's lives, mine would end only with time. It is the wonder of mysteries that man should be so blind to his interest. 
Thursday October 18,1832. I am now considering myself as in my best and happiest days --the golden period of life, the spring time of my hopes and the harvest of my first happiness. No domestic and financial concerns trouble me. No one is looking up to me for support. The race of popularity has. no anxious hopes from me; but every want and wish is supplied while I am laying up daily useful knowl.edge for my own profit and use. 
Friday October 19,1832. How barren of brilliant intellect are the minds of mankind! Of the 800,000 of men who inhabit this earth, few indeed ever immortalise themselves. It can hardly be said that more than one Homer ever lived or a Newton, Locke and Luther. This argues well the meanness of man when compared with God or angels. 
Saturday October 20, 1832. A party of 13 went to Livingston's Cave in Guilderland, among whom I was one. At 8 we took in our line of march and in 4 hours hard travel found ourselves near the cave. The day was warm and our spirits of the like temperature so that, betwixt both, the body was thoro'ly fatigued by [the] time we returned from the mountain to the inn where we took dinner. 

We arrived at home about 7 having [walked] 30 miles, the last S of which was in pitch darkness and a deluge of rain. I so minutely related the former tour there that it is unnecessary to particularise any more upon the subject. Suffice it to say the spirits of our com.pany were good and the ramble every way agreeable. 
Sunday October 21,1832. Elder Packard from some town in Saratoga Co. preached with us today. Altha' an old fashioned, illiterate man, so plainly was he devoted and ardently pious that I could not but like him. It matters little to me if the truth is spoken with feeling and power, by whom, or what means it is delivered. A starched-up minister with flowery words and depths of man's wisdom is not so eminently useful as the feeble means of some unskilled, untutored preacher. 
Monday October 22,1832. As often as t_he sun peeps above the eastern hills or sinks beneath the western horison from night to day and day to night, I need to call upon God that his mercies fail not and his hand be not slow in giving. He knows my every want, yet will be enquired of by man to do those things which he needs. 
Tuesday October 23,1832. The South Sec[tion] sometimes seems literally to be a pand[e]monium, for even to the middle of the night they are rolling down enormous stones and other ponderous weights to the great annoyance of this North College. 
Doct. Joslin's horse was the other night led into the hall and tied to his study door where the old nag very quietly dreamed all night till morning when the servant led him out and cleaned the floor. The Doct. came well nigh breaking his neck over a mischeivous little fence thrown across the hall, when he went around in the performance of his nightly duties. 
Unearthly noises are frequently heard to break the stillness of midnight and calm repose, proceeding from some of those unruly boys there located. 
Wednesday October 24, 1832. I never heard or saw a more novel and unprecedented uproar than was exhibited in chapel a few evenings since. It is the_ custom for one from each class to declaim after prayers and it often happens that if one has not his piece well committed or is too long, he is scraped off the stage. E. A. Brown of the Juniors had his piece very poorly committed, and when the students began to scrape he began to raise his voice in order to drown the confounding noise; the more they scraped and hissed, the louder he spoke till he raised his voice to a complete yell, uttering short and unconnected sentences, at the same time swinging his long unw[ie]ldy arms in a most threatening manner about the head of Old President. The fellow's perseverence and spirit, however, soon changed his dispraise to applause: the whole chapel at once rang with the plaudits; such a dust was raised as was almost [i]nsupportable. Then was his time for exit; already he had been on too long, now he could have come off with some degree of honour, but still he went on blundering and again the room sounded with the confused noise of dispraise. Dr. Nott, finding it unavailing to get him off, voiced to the Seniors to go, who rushed for the door "en masse" while the berated orator still yelled raising himself up on hisá toes with the most 

' 
violent gestures and desisted not till half the college had gone. He has the curses of the whole college upon his head, and has lost much of his popularity. 
Thursday October 25, 1832. I never more sensibly felt the depravity of human nature than in the evidence of it which I see from this little community of students. 
Nothing satisfies the envy of inferior students more than to find a superior making a mistake in rescitation. He at once feels relieved of a vast load and the voracious appetite of jealousy is for a moment appeased. May heaven deliver me from such Devilish feelings and such fiendish passions, knawing up the very vitals of [its] possessor. I find the opinion of "the many" in college is by no means a good criterion by which to guide our actions, for it is mon.strous. 
Friday October 26, 1832. I mean to take a straightforward course thro' college, not cringing to gain favor or flatt_ering to correct. I am too much Yankee ever to descend to such vile expedients to conciliate any man. It is not in my soul to do so. Many a man of power has some of these vile reptiles clinging to him so long as he is in prosperity but when the bleak winds of adversity strip him, [they] flee away. 
Saturday October 27, 1832. It would be well if every careful observer of men and manners should be more diligent in learning the human passions and their various incitements of enterprise! If, when he sees a distinguishing feature in the moral character of man, he should compare it with others and from it draw conclusions which would materially aid him in his intercourse with the world, he would soon gain an exhaustless store of valuable learning which, coming under every days observation and experience, must needs be of a practical and useful nature. 

It is astonishing to see the ignorance on this wide field of important information! Scarcely do our most distinguished scholars begin this most important of all studies, but [they] will forever dig into the rusty and useless learning of books. 
Sunday October28,1832. My mind cannot but feel a unison with the general decay of nature around it. I perceive a sorrow creeping over it as I view the fallen beauties of autumn decaying, the rose withered on its stalk and the dry and dying leaves vibrating in the autumnal blast or rustling at the rough touch [of] the wind from their retreat on the ground. 
Nature puts on a frigid aspect when stript of her fo[[li]age and nothing but bare, slender branches without leaf or flower remain on every tree. So human life will soon be closing, the nipping frosts of adversity will soon kill his promising hopes and honours which cling thick around him. Old age will come creeping in and the winter of death will end all his worldly ill or benefits. 
Elder Wayland of Saratoga preached to us in the absence of Mr. Gillet, gone to visit his friends. 
Monday October 29,1832. I never so much saw the value of time as during this term. How strange that man should so despise that of which he has the least and is unable even to be bought, or obtained when once spent, altho' worlds were given in exchange and the heavenly bodies together with the earth should stop in their courses and refuse to perform the periodical march. He is not so foolish in any other thing as in those interests eternal, unatt[ai]nable and fixed, which so intimately cling to his immortal soul --interests which can no more be seperated solely from him than he can suffer annihilation after his ephemeral course is ended here. If it were so, comparatively would it be well for him that he did so, but where he is made coexistent with God and cohabitant with saints and devils, according as he himself here influences his future destiny, the truest description which art can devise would [be] insipid if exerted in pain ting his folly. 
Tuesday October 30,1832. My time of arising is before I can see to study without a candle, which time is now between S and 6. It affords me much additional time and health without being deprived of any benefit. It gives me habits of diligence and industry, and when I go forth into life will if strictly followed tend to prosper me in the world beyond what most men imagine. 
Wednesday October 31,1832. The atmosphere is full of smoke, the air delightful at least in temperature. No study ever interested me so much as Algebra. I can study hours upon it without being tired and attend rescitatlon any length with[out] being bored. 
Thursday November 1,1832. Time flies so fast that I cannot keep pace with it. The day is not sufficient for its duties --one crowds upon another till when night comes I am weary and harrassed with labor. The fact is, I attempt too much --more than was ever intended to be done in one day. It is well for us who are here assembled to keep aloof from politicks and the various dissensions which distract society about us, and with the calm eye of philo.sophers view the workings of the human heart, its different springs of action, and the causes and means by which it is acted upon in order to produce such mighty commotions. We ought to study men in their various stations, circumstances and bearings and so profit that, when time and duty shall call us forth upon the same great theatre, we shall be fully adequate to use our knowledge in directing the public mind in the channel of rectitude. 
We are not bold enough to meddle with these things now. The means are not in our hands yet by which we can w[ie]ld the pon.derous weapons of civil government, but we are now acquiring that knowledge which will enable us to use them with efficiency. 
Friday November 2,1832. When I look upon my body and see the wonderful frame and make of its various parts each adapted to their uses, when I behold its intricate movements and liability to derangement, I am led to exclaim. I am fearfully and wonderfully made, but what comparison can be drawn between the body and soul, that immaterial part which shall endure thro' all ages and extend thro' all time, which shall outlive these vile bodies, yea and be when this earth is no more, the sun darkened, the moon turned to blood and the stars of heaven are blotted. 
Its vitality will never be deranged; while God lasts, it will last and is itself as inseperable from life as the Eternal from endless duration. Oh the immortal soul! that best but most neglected part of 
238 
our existence --capable of immeasurable, illimitable draughts of knowledge and happiness, or of drinking the depth of that other dreadful extreme --the bitter dregs of misery and the insupportable wrath of the Almighty. 
á Saturday November 3, 1832. For a week past the weather had been 
delightful --so very comfortable --the soft mellow climate of 
autumn. The atmosphere is however very smoky. After attending 
Soc. etc. I sat down to compose a piece for next week. Strong 
unexpectedly went to Albany this aftenoon to carry some money for 
the society to Rawdon & Clark and Uttle & Cummings. 
I am the most dependent being alive, not only [on] God but also 
upon a kind father and mother who are laboring with pains day after 
day to support me, their only son, at College. If my heart feels not 
grateful to them, then I must be the most unfeeling person alive. 
Sunday November 4, 1832. Mr. Gillet's brother preached this fore.noon. Thirteen were baptised at the usual place and joined the church. Who have more reason for humiliation before God than this people because he remembers us so often in mercy? Certainly no one is under greater obligations of gratitude and service than we. More [than] 2/3 of our number have entered within a year. 
Monday November 5,1832. Some weeks ago we had a most cutting satire upon certain members of the senior class, distributed in neat letter form, printed and folded, thro' the College halls by night. It created some excitement at the time but soon died away into that swallower of human productions, oblivion. The style and expression of thought was good and exhibited much talent altho' in its sentiment manifestly faulty, being altogether too harsh and severe. Many surmises were hatched and characters drawn to fit the peice, but all have thus far failed to discover the writer. 
Tuesday November 6,1832. Politicks are the engulphing vortex of 
every other thought nowadays. It is harped by the stripling and aged 
and in the domestic and social circle; the boys catch the flame and 
prolong the dying shouts of older boys. 
There is not a post which is not hatched with the caucus 
notification, and a corn[er] at which are not political jugglers. 
Strange it is that men should be so infatuated and carried 
beyond the limits of sound prudence and moderation. What matters 
it to them whether this man or that be chosen? They expect perhaps 
not direct benefit, but so capable are the human passions of uncom.
13J 
mon excitement that but a small and comparatively unimportant causewillproduceagreatresult. 
l I ( 

Wednesday November 7,1832. The excitement of election had nigh proved a cause of some disturbance. The vote of every student was challenged, however fair his right, and so exasperated were they against Ives of the senior class that a prosecution was commenced against him. The sher[r]iff and 5 constables came up in order to serve it, but the students, having got wind of their intention assembled before the North College with staves, sticks and such missiles as the occasion presented, determined to withstand the unjust suit 'vi et armis. 11 The sheriff and his attenden ts were soon returning to town amidst the shouts and jeers of their opponents. 
Altha' I would not approve the resist[a]ence shown to the civil authority, even however unjust the process might be, yet I cannot but esteem the sympathy which was so spontaneously shown in behalf of one of their fellows. After the men of the law were gone, .Ives went down of himself and surrendered but was acquited by the Judge. 
This was no doubt attempted for effect --if possible to deter the students from voting because they were generally opposed to the prosecutors. They will fail of their object. 
Thursday November 8,1832. I fear these political factions will be the ruin of our country; they are generally the curse of republican governments. When one party gets embittered against another, men but seldom think of the common good; if their own ends are carried, it matters little to them what the expense is. 
Jackson will be elected by a large majority. 
I now retire to bed at 9 and 9 1/2 and arise at 4 or S o'clock, by which means I have much time which I should otherwise lose. Oh! it is astonishing to see the waste of time by man; how inconsiderate is he not to provide while he ámay durable riches. 
Friday November 9, 1832. I am beginning to be a man, at least the time of manhood is just verging from my untried age. The horrid, chequered scenes of life are approaching when I must act and think for myself. 
With regret I leave the day of my boyhood and begin to be a man. The season of laughing, playful joy will soon be past and sober manhood will enter its place. 
Saturday November 10,1832. Ambition is a ruling passion in many of our students, governing all their actions and bringing into subjection every power of their mind. They study that they may be "first," without regard to health and seasons. I know some who sit up almost all night for no other cause than this, that they may outstrip all other rivals and stand first in their class. A proper degree of emulation in study is profitable when students will be prudent and not expose their health. 
What will it profit a man to leave this College with the first honors and a ruined, shackled constitution? He will be like the skilful mariner in a dismantled and sinking ship which altho' [he] was so dextrous he cannot manage because it is too ruinous to be used. 
Sunday November 11, 1832. Nature presents a sad appearance, the last vestige of summer is gone and the nipping frosts and chill winds remind us demonstratively that winter is nigh: Man feels and acts in unison with the appearance of nature around him. How could it be otherwise? What fitter sembl[a]nce of death can be conceived than what [we] now receive from nature! It is singular that God has so wise[ly] spread this instructive book before [us] 11in which are things innumerable" from whose order and decay we may draw lessons of lasting and profitable instruction. 
Monday November 12, 1832. I have not read a volume this term, neither have I began, for my studies occupy much of my time. No one ought in the least to slight his studies in order to read; if they are 
important  to be learnt, they ought to be well learned.  
I came  here  to study  the classics and  mathematics  principally  
and,  should  my time  be taken  up  to  the  disadvantage  of those,  I  
might  as well go away.  

Tuesday November 13, 1832. I must confess that I am so negligent with my "Diary" that it hardly merits a continuance. Sometimes I let it get a week behind and oftimes I scrible in a hurry what scattered and incoherent ideas come fiirst into mind. In vacation, when I've time enough, I take much more interest, write more and better and compose with greater care. This is one of my best duties, to write my feellngs, tho'ts and the leading occurences of life. It is a source of amusement, fund of instruction and means of improvement. The past is preserved from oblivion, those little incidences of life, tho' on that account not less important. But my studies press heavily and [I] have no fixed time to attend to this. 

2LJ2 
Wednesday November 14, 1832. When I commenced this, I little tho't that I should ever lengthen it out to this. Nearly 5 years ago at a store in Concord, N. H. I began to scratch down the weather, business etc. in a little book. By degrees I became more interested in it and occasionally moralized and gave my own tho'ts. I know that this Diary, if properly conducted, will conduce wonderfully to my improvement. It shall acquire a quick tho't and ready mind; stores of little subjects will be collected which I can bring out to great advantage when occasion requires. A negligent style of writing is worse than none. There is danger of running into this extreme when I have so much to write. Subject and tho't may be often repeated, but I believe on the whole that thr'out this book or rather books there is a tolerable freeness from repetition. 
Thursday November 15, 1832. I have abundant reason to thank [God?] for the good health which I have enjoyed this term, no doubt it is in part owing to the exercise which I have taken in sawing wood and in part to my early rising and retiring. 
Friday November 16, 1832. The more I study Algebra [the more] I get initiated into its pleasing and gradual mysteries. Anything of a mechanical nature I can learn much sooner than what is not held by known rules. 
My mind has ever been inclining towards mechanics, ever since I knew enough to do anything in that way. 
Saturday November 1 7, 183 2. Saturday comes and goes as the door on its hinges without having any visible effect on the condition of áman. He still goes on in his usual pursuits till death snatches him off from the remembrance of the living and his place is filled by another. How little does one man feel for another! There's no flesh in man's obdurate heart, he is almost altogether a selfish being. The poor ones forgotten in their affliction and the sick in their heavy visitation die unregarded except by a few relations and friends. Man revels amidst death and dances on the brink of the grave till [he] slips unheeded in. A few there are who leave an undying character behind, who when their earthly existence close begin to be cherished in the hearts of posterity for their worth, talents, and piety. But these souls envy bespatters and vil[i]fies till like gold seven times tried their fame comes forth pure and [i]ncorruptible. 
Sunday November 18, 1832. Rainy, windy disagreeable day. No institution of our country exerts a more powerful moral influence 

over the destiny of this republic and private individuals than Sabbath schools. 
The character of individuals is formed at an early period, before the corruption of youthful example is exerted in bending the twig of the human mind into a vicious way. The first exertions of the infant mind are for the acquirement of virtuous and religious knowledge and the remembrance of the inestimable precepts of the Bible. 
Monday November 19,1832. It is a notable fact which the experience of men have attested that true merit and talents seldom receive their deserts from the opinions of the public. Popular favour is lamentably shortsighted and sparing of benefit towards deserving men who have toiled with the unceasing efforts of a persevering mind aided by wealth to profit and amuse mankind, while more lucky but less worthy candidates have floated on the breath of fame and dwelt in sunshine and prosperity. 
It kindles the angry feelings of the soul to behold such misapplied reward, but [it] ever has been and ever will be the same while the state of man is not more enlightened. 
Tuesday November 20, 1832. In this little community, which of all others ought to be justest in its estimation of merit, I cannot but observe an unfair judgement in the criterion of the same. A few young men set themselves up as persons of genius and rate themselves highly upon their superior natural talent, but I cannot conceive in what nature has favoured these young aspirants above their fellows except in large supplies of vanity. They invariably are the worst scholars in their classes, neglect their studies and are found till midnight with a novel in their hand or some other book of the like character. During study hours, when every diligent and industrious scholar is busy with his book, genius is prowling about to the great anoyance of the studious; he talks largely and by much practice gets a turn at scribblings, but often while others are in bed arises to get his lessons in order to deceive his mates that he can rescite without study. 
Wednesday November 21, 1832. He now and then writes a flat love tale or scratches some love ditties which he expects will draw forth encomiums from the hearers. No man can rightly expect to attain to greatness and proficiency in any branch of study without beginning at the foundation and pursuing with perseverence every branch of needful literature. Genius unaided by cultivation, and talent 


144.
unpolished by the means of a correct and deep knowledge of the classics, are like tools in the hands of an unskilled workman. Till this false estimation of things is removed, we may never expect many real learned men. Has it come to this, that hard and laborious study shall be tho't a disgrace and the man who does so sti[g]matised by the name of "Poler"? Must we be content with being indifferent dabblers in whatever study we engage with? 
Thursday November 22, 1832. Better at once shut our Colleges, dismiss our Profs. and discard the study of classics, betake ourselves to the light reading of the day to train the mind and accustom it to hard thinking. I do hate this pretending [to] meddle with things for which they are no wise fitted, this climbing above their proper station and aspiring to be great with[out] partaking of any of the labours which attend greatness. A man never knows what he has talents for till his mind has become drilled with proper exercise and suitable exertion. It would long remain in a state of inactive being without this necessary qualification. 
It might be excusable in these would-be geniuses, who are such zealous admirers and imitators of illustrious men, if they instead of imitating their faults would copy their virtues and shun their follies, but not so. Unfortunately they mistake the accompan[y]ing faults of great men for the real cause of their greatness and follow in their footsteps in every other case but their truly distinguishing qualities. 
Friday November 23, 1832. Many in the past ill imitate the unstu.diousness of a Webster without remembering that it cost him full a years study to acquire what he had neglected to get in College. Some will pursue the irregularities of Byron and others the almost innumerable peculiarities of the different great men. Why is this? Because faults are easier and more successfully imitated than virtues, and the human heart delights in oddities. But enough of this. 
Saturday November 24, 1832. During a span of 10 years back there have been creeping into college a number of secret societies whose proceedings and object are hidden as well as the time and place of meeting. 
In all elections in the Literary Socs. they have generally prefer[r]ed their own members to office and shared whatever benefits were possible exclusive of others. They chose whomever they pleased among their no. who were generally good scholars and clever fellows. But so much evil has been experienced from them one way and another in times past that last vacation the faculty 
24r 
denounced them in the Bills 
and this term the students themselves combined "en masse" to oppose them with their influence. It is astonishing how quick the fever of "Anti-secretism" spread among the classes after the matured plans of opposition were once made known. Hardly an individual out of these socs. favoured them, but every man strove for some days to support his own party by every means. If they can enlist the lower classes against secret socs., these will soon run out but if a few remain undecided they will still be kept alive by new elections. So they now are. More hereafter. 
á Sunday November 25, 1832. After the busy labours of the week have ended, how good it is to draw near unto holy things and commune with God afar from the world and earthly enticements. The great design of the Sabbath shows the Wisdom of a God who not only instituted it as a day of worship to man but of rest to beast whose weary limbs have toiled for the service of man. 
Monday November 26,1832. Monday morning brings with it the labours of another week and it were strange if its coming were not unwished after a long Sundays rest and relaxation. It is good thus to labour and do what is irksome to nature; the mind and frame of man would otherwise become quite relaxed and unfitted for the noble enterprise and arduous undertakings for which he is made and fitted. By industry man can do everything, by remissness nothing. 
Tuesday November 27, 1832. 1 am much less interested with the 
reviews of the classics than with the first reading. Would that it were 
otherwise. The study of the Latin and Greek Languages are lamenta.
bly neglected in our schools and colleges, not from any incapability of 
giving proper instruction but because of the degeneracy in regard for 
their importance. 
The perfect model of language, the most sublime thought, the 
boldest figures and the most worthy samples of imitation in style 
and purity are found in the Classics. 
Wednesday 28,1832. The father of Epic poetry has written in Greek as well as the great models of history and eloquence. Rome too has her great men whose works alone have made her language as lasting as time. We have heard of the thunders of Demosthenes and the melting, moving eloquence of Cicero, that a Homer lived and Virgil wrote a book; they say that Xenophon, Plato, Herodotus and others 
246 
wrote in Greek and Sallust, Livy and Tacitus in Latin, but what know we of their works more than others tell us? Tis true we pretend to read them but little else [do] we know of them than that such works there are. 
Thursday November 29, 1832. Youth are made disgusted with them ere the first rudiments of the standard tongues are acquired. Teachers themselves, being incompetent to make clear explanations and open their hidden beauties, vex and bewilder their pupils with a study which at once becomes dry and unsought. 
In fact, I would not give a fig for the general knowledge which students ordinarily acquire from them, in the imperfect way in which they glance at and shuffle them off. It is enough merely to give a bungling interpretation without ever refer[r]ing once to the idea of the author or examining the structure of the language. Woe betide our character as a learned people and ours as a literary land till our sons become more sound and erudite scholars. 
Friday November 30, 1832. It's condemned hard to have one's 
compositions hard-labored and studied, un[n]oticed by these paltry Editors when sent for**-k-k*.Doubtless it is right enough. There are a good many newspaper scribblers whose writings are not worth noticing, who scold wonderfully if they are [dis?]regarded. I never expect to be an author, my mind is not bent that way. I have an utter neglect for composing so great that time, I believe, will not conquer it. 
Saturday December 1,1832. Chill winter is hurrying along his rustling train the wind and snow, the hail and the rain, and over the earth is sweeping. 
Animated nature recoils from his nipping toutch, the birds are fleeing away to a more agreeable region where snows never fall, nor the rivers are bound in.á But to be comfortably stored within doors with plenty of this worlds goods and a large supply of useful books, to have no pressing calls without, to laugh when the winds howl and the storm sweeps thro' the land, is no common enjoyment. 
Sunday December 2, 1832. Four persons joined the church by baptism. I went to the factory in the afternoon so that I could not partake of the Lord's Supper. 
I am the dullest, dumbest and most idle fellow for God that I know of when I regard the important means which I have at my disposal and the length of time in which I have enjoyed these advan.
24-7 
tages. My feelings are not enough enlisted to do good beyond what will redown interest and the glory of my own name, a deadliness in sin viles my faculties and-freeses up all the avenues of action and usefulness. While others have advanced far onward in their journey towards heaven by liberal acts of benevolence and self denial who began no sooner than I, with me the fetters of sloth bind and an unwillingness hinders my speed. I have no realization as for whom and in what a cause I am enlisted. 
Monday December 3, 1832.1 never heard Doc~ Nott speak in a more determined and firmer manner than [when] he denounced the secret societies in Chapel before the College assembled at prayers. Says he, "The first young man who joins a secret society shall not remain in Coll. one hour, or at least only while we can get him off.11 We may now consider them as cru_shed, for his veto is of more influence than all that the combined effort of the whole Coll. could exert. Terrible denunciations are hurled upon the heads of the Anti-secret coalition by the partizans of the secret societies but the die is now cast and, unless the Dr. revokes his decree, secret societies will be extinct from Union Coll. within 3 years. For my part I have little interest in either party and since I have nothing to gain or lose I stand neutral. 
Tuesday December 4,1832. The present collegiate term has been somewhat shortened, from which circumstance our advanced studies have not been so great generally as at other years. 
This evening the 1st division of the Sophomore class bore a good examination in Graeca Majora and Tacitus before the Fxam'g. Com. and numbers of the Profs. Tomorrow morning Algebra will be examined. 
Altha' I believe our trials [in] the different studies to be as true as in Coll., whatever on the whole are they but a mere farce and bugbear which the student magnifies till he makes it an object of dread and disgrace. I would not be tho't to condemn them, for they may be considered as of the first importance to the scholar both to urge him to study and give him a confidence in his own abilities. 
Wednesday December 5, 183 2. I am once more released from College restraints and permitted my own freedom, not however now to throw aside my books and think no more about them till the time of study comes again. I plan more work for vacation than I generally perform. In looking back upon my Diary, I find many errors both in writing and composing which it would be well to profit by in the future prosecution of this. It very seldom happens that I read my 
1.48 
scribblings a second time until some time after and since I write what first comes to mind without meditation it would be strange if it were but indifferent trash. It serves however very well the purpose for which it was intended. 
Thursday December 6, 1832. The examination, ordination and installation of Mr. Backus took place this afternoon and evening in the presence of a large and respectable audience in the Presbyterian Church. The Rev. M. Campbell of Albany preached the sermon, which I believe was universally admired for its adaptedness to the occasion and the eloquent manner in which it was delivered. The other exercises were equally appropriate and impressive. I hope Mr. Backus will fully meet the expectations and hopes of his congregation and church who heretofore have been somewhat fastidious, as I understand, in their choice of a pastor. He appears to be a man of talents and piety, having withal something of a prepossessing aspect. 
Friday December 7, 1832. A literary publication called the Parthenon has been started in college this term, the first no. of which has made its appearance in a pamphlet form of 50 pages and reflects honor upon the editors both in the talent of its contributors and typo.graphical execution. It is to be published monthly during the terms of College, at 3 doll[lars] a year by certain members of the Senior Class, of whom Tiliman is the principal. 
Time will best test the practicability of such an attempt, under such circumstances as this publication must necessarily be subjected to in an institution where the most efficient part of the editorial force is almost wholly exerted in a quite different course. If it stand, it must thro' the exertions of the student or fall by their neglect and inefficiency. 
Saturday December 8, 1832. Such a paper has been tried a no. of times before in Coll. but after struggling thro' numerous difficulties had at last stopped, and we have reason to fear this may be the fate of this. The editor of a paper like this ought to devote his whole time exclusively to it, which can not reasonably be expected to be the case with this. The profit of such a periodical in Coll. cannot be questioned in which each student may insert his own productions if worthy and also read those of others. Too great judgement, prudence in the selection of matter for insertion cannot be used; the degeneracy of publications in this respect, which at first commenced well, has often been their ruin. 
7-49 
Sunday December 9, 1832. Sabbath schools are destined as the mightiest weapon which the mind of man ever invented, or God prospered, to convert the world to Christ. , 
See the opening bud of childhood moistened by their heavenly dews, cherished and fostered by its protecting power till grown to full growth and maturity of manhood when it defies the blast of sin and corruption and the tainted influence of the natural inclinations and the Devil. 
To the poorer class, who most need the advantages of early education, this presents the most cheering prospect of improvement. 
Monday December 10, 1832. I have been and am now reading Byrons works. His praise if written would swell a volume beyond the size of his own works, so vain would it be for me to say more than that. I wonder how mortals could think and write so. In casting up my accounts I find that during the 5 years past I have written over 
1000 pages in my Diary and elsewhere, a volume which if written well would have made me a good writer b~t so negligently composed that on the whole perhaps I have been the more injured than otherwise. A writer should never think superficially on a subject about which he is writing, especially a beginner, or else he had better not write at all. 
Slothfulness in an author is as injurious to his character as to a mechanic, for he may be assured that no one will be content to read attentively what he was careless in composing. 
Tuesday December 11, 1832. I have written more perhaps than many young men of my age but in my composing have not exhibited deep tho't, a well diciplined mind and a correct style, all of which I might have bro't to some degree of perfection had I taken that peculiar delight and satisfaction in this becoming art that some do. The truth is I have never tho't in all my exercises nor cared only to arrange my rough ideas in a still rougher language. 
Egotism is a prominent trait in my diary scribbling. To write of oneself is a delicate subject. 
Wednesday December 12,1832. Union College is conducted [on] the most republican principles of any coll., as far as I am aquainted. Perfect equality exists between the classes in almost all cases, where at other colleges great inequality is preserved. The students govern themselves in a great measure, not being forced to obedience by fear of punishment but held in restraint by the mild reins of parental 
25() 
government. 
Thursday December 13, 1832. Of late I have scarcely mentioned the weather because subjects of a more sentimental kind have occupied my attention but, on the whole, the past'fall and the winter thus far have been of a very mild temperature, not exhibiting such extreme cold weather as was experienced last year. Long before this we were expecting cold, blustering winter with the wind and the snow. The Canal is yet open and a few boats are passing with their freight up and down. We cannot long expect, however, that the ground will remain bare and the rivers open. 
Friday December 4, 1832. Letter writing, that eternal bore, is now pushing upon me. I can[not] evade answering my correspondent if I would still preserve a consistency of character for friendship and fidelity, a breach of which is an unpardonable fault in any gentleman who professes himself worthy of confidence. I know of no other reason for my dislike to this difficult accomplishment than either laziness or incompetency to the task. 
Saturday December 15, 1832. The state of South Carolina has at length made some most frightful advances towards rebellion and secession from the Union. The hidden flames of nullification have long been struggling upward for vent but the sterling integrity and patriotism of a mass of her citizens and the forbearance of the nullifiers to collect, augment and organize their forces for a grand systematic attack have till this time smothered its dank and smoky volume. The symptoms of an irruption have long been seen in the repeated murmurs, for[e]boding threats and the not to be mistaken preparations of these factious leaders. 
But it was reserved till now to record the first act of decided unquestionable conduct which declares to the world to what end all the treasonable measures which have been pursued tend and what are the grounds upon which they rest for their legality and justice. 
[Carried to Monday 17th] 
Sunday December 16, 1832. I have now a large class of young gentle.men who rescite the "Union Questions" to me in the Sabbath School who, altho' they are not very forward, will I think [be a] pretty interesting class. I was forced to walk to Albany and back in order to obtain the Question Books which I found to have pretty hard print. I tarried but a few minutes and barely spoke to my chum. 

Monday December 17,1832. In a convention lately assembled, an ordinance was passed in which among the rest it was asserted that the tariff laws were unconstitutional and unjust, that a single state had a right to [dis?]approve a law passed by Congress and to withdraw from the enforcement of the same and that this Union was but a compact and a compact, a league, therefore one state has a right to secede at pleasure from the league. This ordinance, which exhibits a large share of talent and ingenuity, was probably written by Hayne, one of the most violent nuffifiers. In answer to this and for the purpose of pacification and a fair statement of facts, the President has issued a proclamation which is considered as irrefutable and the best production or act which he has ever produced since he has exersised the office of Pres. He takes up every argument and statement of the ordinance and answers them [with] such decided and incontrovertable argument that I believe it cannot fail to convince many of their folly In the present crisis. 
Tuesday December 18,1832. Gen. Hamilton has advised the raising of an army to oppose the forces of the Union and prevent laws of Con.gress to be obeyed, and even the Legislature has proscribed every man who shall assist in collecting revenue at the port of Charleston. A regularly organized opposition is going on altho' by the small majority of our states. The Pres. has sent several companies of troops to Charleston harbor and ordered some others with dispatch. 
Wednesday December 19, 1832. I have received my bill of late which is as before feeble aitho when I commenced in the beginning of last term I did not expect much that the standing which I obtained in the class could be sustained by me. The attainment is the principle object to be looked to in any study but to have it known among others that we have a conspicuous stand for scholarship cheifly flatters vanity and ambition while at the same time it conciliates favour from those who otherwise would be haughty and overbearing. There are those who, because they cannot raise .. . 
Thursday December 20,1832 .... to a "Maximum," pretend that they dispise those that do obtain it and very often falsely assert that they study mainly for that object. But after all how little will this go to our benefit in the world or how seldom do people ask of a man what his bill in Coll. Attainment is the grand aim and on his talents must a man stand or fall. 

7-SZ 
Friday December 21, 1832. 
Some men by birth are Made Great, 
some acquire Greatness, 
Other[s] some Greatness is thrust 'pan. 
Shakespeare 
Saturday December 22,1832. It cannot be dis[s]embled among all the deceitful passions and the intricate windings of the human heart that Greatness in man irks that great mass of mankind who cannot attain to the same height. The better part do not envy great talents but only gr[ie]ve that the will of Providence had not given to them the same exalted mind and heaven-borne gifts. The baser sort rankle withiná their breast the essence of black envy and publish slander and vituperation. 
Sunday December 23,1832. From the Diary of the past 6 months or even a year there ls little from which one could gather that I was pious, much less I fear from my life exclusive of external proof. On the front of every child of God should be written in plain legible characters, "Holiness to the Lord," and in every act of his life in open and secret the influence of that religion which he professes should be visible, casting a healthful effect upon his associates. 
But no miracle is more astonishing than this inconsistency of Christians, that the volume of their life is written in such languid earthly style and its page, which should be bright, is made faint with so many blots. Sin is the offence which incapacitates him and tarnishes the luster of his life. 
Monday December 24, 1832. It has been very often a matter of question whether it were not more profitable to write upon a lengthy subject in preference to this hasty sketching from day to day what first pops into my mind, but I am pretty well convinced of the impropriety of omitting my Diary when I have thus far continued for a way of writing which 1 am well convinced would be very much neglected by me. I hate hard thinking upon absolute metaphysical subjects and since this suits me let it be pursued. 
Tuesday December 25,1832. I delight to be seated snugly by a comfortable fire when the storm howls without and the rain comes patting upon the windows, or dances mer[r]ily over the roofs. It makes me feel more deeply the comfort which pervades within while nature rages without. Then the tho'ts of the poor, houseless and cold, 
2.53 
and the wayworn traveller comes over my mind with mournful feelings. 
Wednesday December 26, 1832. I know of nothing which strikes sorrow to the heart with so much emphasis as the death-tolling bell. Every stroke speaks Death with mournful accents and [as] the sound dies away in the pervading silence, it seems like the stillness of death. The youthful and gay as they pass along know too that soon their turn will call forth the same heart-rending peals and amidst all the buoyancy of youth they are obliged to think of their latter end. 
Thursday December 27, 1832. Just snow enough has fallen to cover the roughness of our roads and make "decent sliding." Six in. more, however would be the "compl[e]ment." Oh! how lively the first snow makes business. All are striving to make the most of it while it lasts and create the happy chiming of bells. 
Friday December 28, 1832. If there had been sufficient snow on the ground, this would have been a very blustering day, for Boreas never blowed harder and more fiercely. I had planned a visit of 2 or 3 miles distance but I shrank from the raw cold wind and chose rather to sit still at home. 
When winter howles without And the fierce wind whistles drear[i]ly For storms I care not a groat So my life it passes merrily. 
Saturday December 29, 1832. Seemingly the end and beginning of a week are but near neighbors. Time urges on his never-tiring steed with quickened pace, or else I have become a wrong judge. If time should be measured by my action, it would already have ended, for I do just nothing but to get up, eat and sleep again and so pursue the seven days of a week. Oh! this damning, itching, teasing, unpleasant la[z]iness --the moth of human life and labours --time destroying tyrant! It cost[s] a man half his life to serve this hard master and the rest to mourn his servitude. 

254.
Sunday December 30, 183 2. I feel like a fool in this world, for the more I meet the gaze of men, the more I see the vanity of all things mortal and the folly of human pride. 
What are prospects of my life in this world? What good shall I do? How much evil? Oh! how humiliating the tho't that man is not a god. My. mind aspires to be what it never can or will be, and 11aspiring to be a god and rebel" man is like the changing ocean which can never rest but is always tossed or ruffled by the storm of passion or like the aspen leaf [in] his desires and aspirations continually moving and changing on the airy [void?]. 
Monday December 31, 1832. I have now attained a place on the roll of my class which if not in reality at least in appearance makes me the first scholar in my class, but vain is it to thus [to] satisfy the vanity and ambition of the human heart. I have deemed my pleasure great if this station could once be obtained, to be the best of 50 young men but ,now apparently so, it satisfies not the immortal mind. Worldly attainments and honors are vain where usefulness to mankind is absent. 
It is good to notice this closing year as it is now about to bear away into the regions of eternity it's load of actions and ach[ie]vments. O'er its dark departure hang the bright dreams of past pleasure and the regrets of the passing life as the few remaining moments are counted off by the flowing sands of time. We seem loath to let it go, still clinging to the fond remembrances of its woes and pleasures. I closed the [year] at the Methodist Church where it is customary to pass the night in religious devotions till the old year is gone and the new ushered in. The house was crowded to overflowing and after a sermon the brethren continued the exercises by prayer and singing without intermission [until?] after midnight. I approve of this practice most cordially and believe that the dedication of ourselves anew to God and his service assuch an important period of time commences just a little conduces to our spiritual growth. 
