

Tuesday January 1,1833. In fact what vows have I to make and break again? Is there no need of virtuous and healthful resolutions for God's service? If a man can live unto holiness without resolving with himself and pledging honour by the innate desire and love towards God, well be it for him. Better never make determination to live more holy than only vow to break. 
Where is the latent spark of divine love which was first kindled in my heart by the peace-speaking voice of the Spirit of all Grace? Where those holy aspirations of godliness and those longings after more fellowship with God? All--All--stifled and lost among the rubbish of worldly affections. Oh, the vlle influence ... 

Wednesday January 2,1833 .... of worldly ambitions and pride! The zeal of temporal acquirements have eaten me up. God, holiness and heaven are minor affairs and over the whole history of my life is written in not obscure characters "Selfishness." Another year now 
stands  before  me to stand witness to my repent[a]nce  for 12 months  
and register all my confessions and returns  to duty.  
Thursday  January  3, 1833. Altha'  I have  promised  much  good  to  

myself during this vacation and have made large reliances upon it as a season for reading, its moments leave me as ignorant as before of those books from which I anticipated much pleasure and profit. Nothing's done with some scholars without compulsion or the master to stand by. I believe it is so with me. If the dread of popular con.tempt or the love of popular approbation does not influence me to study, it is too apt to be the case that I am remiss. I love study when some hope of profit is in it and this perhaps is what incites most students. 
Friday January 4, 1833. All day I have been busied about my room, in placing things in order for the term which commenced this evening with prayers. The passing and coming of each successive term form no common feeling in mind, not so much because they bring with them any very important events but from the fact that these large portions of the years which form human life are but as the weavers shuttle, and the course of the swift eagle thro' the air. Oh time, how swift and irredeemable! 
Saturday January 5, 1833. Now come the pleasant meeting of old friends and the smiling of happy faces at mutual congratulations between friend and friend. The heavy sound of rolling coaches brings with it the "Sons of Union" once more returning to this misery of literature and study, and if they so grudgingly leave the pleasant scenes of home, when they are seated again around their pine table poring over some useful study, home and its sweets give place to the delights of acquiring knowledge. 
Sunday January 6, 1833. Thank God that he has cast my lines in such pleasant places. The tolling bell calls us to the consecrated shrine of God and the faithful preachers voice warns and entices to flee from the wrath to come and with an eye of faith lay hold [on] God's eternal promises. 

The heathens of India are perhaps this day casting themselves beneath the bloody wheels of Juggernaut or casting their infants to the crocodile and bowing to god's of stone and wood. Alas! when will the heathen know and the people get knowledge! 
The awful hell which awaits unbelievers in this enlightened land must be inconceivable since their responsibility increased to such a degree. Better had they never been born than die in their sins. 
Monday january 7, 1833. After all I always feel at the beginning of every term a kind of sorrow arising from a fear that I may not prosper so well as during the past, or else I dislike so long to keep my mind intent upon the same routine of study with[out] any voluntary relaxation. It would be more in accordance with the human mind to apply itself when it was agreeable and then leave off, but this would be too changing and a man would never get qualified for any one branch of of life. 
Tuesday January 8, 1833. A7ollege life is .one of much pleasure and 
.\ 
fun, abounding with rogueries, scrapes, narrow escapes; and the wonderful stories of these Demi-Devils are enough to fill a volume. Every village gossip is well learned in this department of storied tradition and, in their little parties for chat, not unfrequently the magnified secrets of a college walls are whispered with many [a] knowing wink and pitiful groan in greif for the poor wicked student. 
Beyond his narrow cell he is never loved except by few whose minds are of a superior cast. Advantaged from the common mass of mankind, the very devil is seen in his eye and countenance as soon as the magic name of Student is applied to him, and with the greatest difficulty it is that he can get a country school or a few weeks board in vacation among these prejudiced souls. 
Wednesday January 9, 1833. I am quite unwell with a severe cold which racks my bones with pains and causes my head to ache severely. 
Altha' I suppose Geometry is not very difficult any farther than a tax to the memory, it does not suit me altogether, neither do I think it will unless very materially different from what this beginning promises. (Note: I must have been a puppy hardly 9 days old when I wrote the above, for surely my eyes were not opened.) 

Thursday January 10, 1833. 1 have written a long letter to Collins and Dickey of Dartmouth, 2 as good scholars and companions as [I] am acquainted with. They are endowed by nature with good abilities which they have cultivated to a certain extent. Collins is more of a jovial character and was used to make great sport for us at N. Hamp.ton; Dickey's turn is of a stiller and more modest character, striving to please by kind offices or attentions with all the affection of a friend. I believe he is most heartily penitent for his intercourse and its fruits with a certain freakish girl whose testimony made him a most unwilling father. The circumstances shamed the fellow almost to death; his former good character was known thro' his town as unspotted and thus to have it tarnished at once by this unlucky slip of youth was too much. Wherever he went he tho't men knew it and he hung his head with shame. But with this his only fault I love him dearly. 
Friday January 11, 1833. Till this time we have had no snow of any consequence this winter and the boats on the North River have made a good no. of trips this month. 
Such winters we are expecting now and then, for [in] the course of nature, as fast as a country becomes cleared and cultivated, the duration and severity of winter decreases. We may soon expect, however, some very severe cold weather as well as a goodly quantity of snow. Thus saith the old ones, "The snow will [stay? lie?] not in the sky." 
Saturday January 12, 1833. I am always sorry when Saturday night comes because I often feel that I have lost a day when everything urges me to improve each passing hour as it flies. I wish to do so much that I am unhappy because it cannot all be performed. Time seems to drive me reluctantly along. Yea, he flies faster than I in spite of all my exertions. 
Sunday January 13,1833. Because Gillet was away I attended the Episcopal Church where I was almost wearied to death with the foolish round of ceremonies and cold prayer-reading, after which I heard, or rather slept upon, a fashionable sermon of 15 minutes from Mr. Proal. 
I would in all liberality be charitable to every denomination which differs from me as far as reason and religion will direct, but in part I must censure this Church for its near approach to papery in the variety of its unscriptural ceremonies. 
To suppose that a man can worship God with fervour and put up prayer to his throne in the words of another is certainly contrary to every principle of reason. 

Monday January 14, 1833. I paid this morning 22 dollars which, together with 30 more, which I before paid, make 52 dollars for the past year to cover a file of nearly 60; the remainder I shall pay shortly. My funds are pretty scanty and the means by which I obtain them are not the less honest because feeble. Father by his own industry from day to day earns the money which sends me, his only son, to this institution. It had been my hope in past days that we had a competency for all the pressing neccessities of human life for the future, but Providence whose inscrutable laws are unchangeable ordered it otherwise and now we have to begin anew as far as pecuniary concerns. 
Tuesday January 15, 1833. Eternity itself would only be sufficient to bring to pass all the golden dreams of youth, the rich splendour of kings magnificence, the lofty soarings of fame and the soft whisper.ings of pleasure's s[i]ren voice. 
The noonday dreams never cease till he awakes in old age or at death and finds them fled. 
Wednesday January 16, 1833. During term time I attend so closely to my studies, it is little time which I can spare to write in my Diary or read, not because it is my wish so to neglect these important duties but because I conceive it more to my interest to become master of my lessons. 
Thursday January 17, 1833. With all the pleasantries of College and the company of its jolly and clever fellows, there [are] many duties which hardly agree with the buoyant feelings of untamed youth. Oh! what a bore to be obliged to study when inclination opposes or the stinted intellect refuses to pen[e]trate and the memory to retain. Then the bell,, which this moment peals its unwelcome notes, grates harshly upon the ear. 
Friday January 18, 1833. It has always been my opinion, and by the favour of God ever shall be, never to strive for the acquirement of popularity in College, that [most?] dispicable of all practices and least worthy of a free and learned mind. Let my course be onward by persevering industry, never swerving for favour or cringing from good esteem in every act; let there be reason and unbiased judge.ment combined with sound integrity and I shall be he who never spoke or did a foolish thing. 

Saturday January 19, 1833. There never was a better school of human nature than Coll. where every extreme of vice and virtue with their intermediate grades are visibly exposed to the passing beholder. The drunkard and liar, debaucher and swearer, the gambler, theif and infidel --each has his seat among us conspicuous in all his native deformity. Do these young men sink so deep in vice at this early period, just escaped from beneath their paternal roof and the cautious jealous care of a wary mother? I had tho't they not even knew the way to death, but after everything which can be said in extolling poor human nature I come to the conclusion some men, if possible, are born debauchers and drunkards. 
Sunday January 20, 1833. Owing to an engagement in the Sab[bath] Sch[ool] at the Factory, I am deprived of worship one-half of the day and the other is negligently spent, that of all men I am the most unworthy of a Christian standing in the church. Oh, the depth of vile.ness into which 1 have fallen. I heap sin upon sin till they reach the heavens and cry aloud for vengeance. 
Monday January 21, 1833. I never tho't an original idea or per.formed an original act. This rare material to which so many aspire is a quality [not] made but implanted there by the hand of our Maker as other natural abilities are at our birth. Would that I were able to believe talents were wholly dependent [on] education, and the equality of intellect in every man. 
Tuesday January 22, 1833. An endless round of mischeif is a hatch.ing in the breasts of certain boys and not a few tricks are played off upon Dr. Joslin for no other reason than that he faithfully [does] his nightly duty of visiting his Section. The Dr. was fastened into a room into which he had entered and did not come out till he had nearly demolished the door. Poor man, he labored hard and when he was liberated perspired, and looked pale as death. 
Wednesday January 23, 1833. But the last was a ducking which he received from a pail filled with water so ingeniously fixed as to pour its contents upon his head as he ascended the stairs. The Dr. sustains all their provoking rogueries with firmness and coolness, seldom if ever showing any signs of anger. His resolution to perform his duty, let what will fall upon his head, is admirable who if other Profs. did the same would be honored and respected. 

Thursday January 24, 1833. The abandoned morals of some students are disgusting however much wealth, friends or mental accom.plishments may seem to hide their deformity. The hearts of many parents will be broken when they know that the son on whom they smiled and trusted for future support carouses at night in beastly intoxication or gives his strength and health to harlots, and whose future prospects are clouded by the fearful anticipation of a similar life or the pangs of a sinner's death. A fact. J. T. of Troy with a dozen other rakes rode to Albany in the night to visit the theatre and those hills of prostitution. During the evening he saw his father acciden.tally, who gave him 12 dollars upon the assertion that he had come down on purpose to see him. At an early hour he left the theatre with a whore with whom he staid a few hours and gave her 5 dollars; from thence he visited 2 other houses of the same character at the 
' 
last of which his money was all spent and his reason with it. In such a situation his companions left him and ret'd to Schendy. 
When the sun arose the next day he was in Albany without a cent of money to allay his hunger or purchase conveyance back who on the night before had 12 or 15 doll[ar]s. He was obliged to sell his breast pin and ring for a 12th part of their value to a boy in order to get home. Thus ended a jaunt so disgracefull and unhappy to himself and degrading to human nature. 
Friday January 25,1833. This is but a single instance of those which I can relate of ruined health and character and disgrace [ or?] expulsion from College altho' for credit of students I rejoice to say that a change is in time taking place for the better. The following I believe is true. A student by the name of Thompson a few years ago had become so eager in his desires that he could not be satisfied with going to a Miss occasionally, but had the daring to bring one into his room where he stowed her away for a no. of days without suspicion. It required some adroitness to get her out again without disclosure, for then the "Old Dr. 11 was in his prime and wary as a fox. He man.aged to get her upon his back and cover her with his cloak and was bearing [away] his load when he was met by the last man whom he 
wished to see. "What you got there, Thompson?" "A saddle, sir --just been a riding --going to carry it home." "O yes," says old Prex. "I see the stirrups hanging down" (meaning the girls legs). He was soon on his way home. 

Saturday January 26, 1833. 1 cannot find a reason why Geometry is not so pretty a study for me as Algebra unless it be that G[eometry] does not combine that degree of practical usefulness that A[lgebra] does; but to come to the truth perhaps it lies more in the natural inclination or different structure of the human mind. No study is absolutely disconsonant to my feelings, however hard or dry, but of the 2 great branches the Classical is more pleasant and the Mathe.maticks the better rescited by me. I fancy without assuming any vanity that no scholar in the class understands and rescites his lessons (Mathematicks) better or so well as I, but in the languages there may be 2 or 3. Whatever I learn is done by industry, which of natural talents the first, I possess in some degree. By this I must stand or fall in the world for I have not any other besides it. 
Sunday January 27, 1833. My chum, who is a Presbyterian, [and I] have frequent disputes upon Baptism which, altho' a doctrine of great importance, I must say is lamentably misused by Sprinklers and Pedobaptists. Every ordinance of the gospel of any importance I believe we have warrant for by the Bible,.more than mere inference by comparing text with text and old with new Testament thro' a long intricate course of reasoning; but on the contrary it is written in plain language, is a positive command or established precept, by either of which Infant Baptism cannot be proved. By a long course [of] nice reasoning and crafty ingenuity this is proved or attempted to be proved. 
Monday January 28, 1833. It is still my custom to retire at 9 and rise at 4 o'clock. My gain from this practice is incalculable both in health and time. He who sleeps no more than is requisite lengthens his life a quarter past which the slothful loses in needless indulgence. The idea that no man can be a student unless he burns the midnight lamp is no more absurd than false. 
Tuesday January 29, 1833. So great is the opposition to the arrange.ment of the Trustees to supply the place of Junior Orators Elections that every Soc. have sent Delegates to confer together and produce a remonstrance to the Trustees and Faculty against the unjust encroachment upon their rights. 
Prize speaking is the substitute for Junior Orators, to prevent which the Juniors have signed a pledge not to offer themselves as speakers; consequently the Jr. Exhibition will be dispensed with this year. The remonstrance of the committee was read and excepted in all the Soc [ieties]. 

Wednesday January 30, 1833. Dr. Nott is evidently drawing the reins of government tighter than customary in Union and already those 
' 
young men who choose to govern themselves as far as possible murmur at what they cannot help. It seems they heap all the origin of this stricter discipline upon Potter's head because since his return from Boston all this new rigour began. But compared with N. E. Coll[eges] I will venture to assert that our restraints are very mild and parental. 
This tho't occurred from Dr. Nott's prohibition of any student to attend the dancing school which is now commencing in the city. Says he,"Young gentlemen, you cannot belong to both institutions at the same time. Therefor, if any of you go to this school, he cannot remain in Coll. too. 11 Some swear they will go and others vow the 11old man" is getting too tyr[r]anical, such is the spirit of young men. 
Thursday January 31, 1833. Prof. Potter addressed a large audience on temperence at the Dutch Church last eve which I understand (for I was not present) was a failure to satisfy the expectations of the people on the occasion. He borrowed a great part from other articles and much in spirit and originality. Notwithstanding the high praise bestowed on this man, which I own is true in part, I cannot see whence it all proceeds. His piety is acknowledged and his abilities and qualifications for a teacher are exellent, but to say that his preaching equals his fame I believe is mistaken. 
As an instructor he is beloved but as a man universally unpopular, showing a haughty, proud carriage and overbearing disposition. 
Friday February 1, 1833. But just now has fallen enough snow to make tolerable sliping [sliding?]. Before we have seen no weather which could be truly called wintry. 
á Now is a time of shivering limbs, frozen ears and ruddy cheeks, fierce fires, warm clothes and ble[a]k winds, hot coffee and bean porridge. This is as good a time for study perhaps as any in the year because everything external-looking, cold and uninviting causes us rather to prefer a warm room with an interesting book than a cold air and barren prospects. Besides the body is more peculiarly fitted for close thinking when moderately warm than otherwise. 
Saturday February 2, 1833. Our Literary Socs. occupy so much time 

on this day and require so much to prepare for their exercises that it is with difficulty I can find time to perform the ordinary duties which require my attention. I sometimes query whether 'twould not be well to give Diary up entirely or at least to write in it seldom instead of every day, but then I say, let everything be dispensed with but this, which is my best friend, truest monitor and written tho'ts. If any exercise has ever improved me, it must be this altho' am astonished why it has not to a greater degree. The fault lies here, not in the Diary. 
Sabbath February 3, 1833. If possible I am "falling from grace" already. My first love is gone, fled and I left barren and cold. Oh "how is the gold become dim, how is the most fine gold changed." Ambition, pride and every earthly inducement drag me captive as a resistless slave. If I pray, it is lip service to speak of heavenly things. I am never known and think of the same seldom. God has no seat in man's natural heart, every affection is selfish and gross, every tho't corrupt and at variance with his law. 
I took lead of a prayer meeting at the factory this evening and was very well pleased with it. 
Monday February 4, 1833. It is tho't or at least hoped that the diffi.culties of South Carolina will be hushed and things will not come to extremities for the peace and good name of our government. I should hope not but if she farther persists in her rebellious act, if she despises the laws and Constitution of the Union, let South Carolina be made an example for future rebels. 
Tuesday February 5, 1833. We find Aristotle's OLMTCKM to be pretty hard Greek. His writings do not show that simple sweetness of Xenophon but a concise and learned method which on the whole ap.pears laboured .. I cannot say I like him above well, the more because he is a difficult author perhaps than from any fault of his. His style very much resembles Tacitus, I suppose, at least as far as conciseness [isJconcerned. 
Wednesday February 6,á 1833. In spite of the resolution of the Trustees to the contrary, parties begin to take opposing ground upon the Jr. Orator Election. The whole farce of political strife, intrigue and party virulence is most admirably played, not an act is wanting or a single distinguishing feature, but it is a wonderful miniature of the great contention in which every man becomes a politician and factious adherent. Nothing pleases me more or gives me so com.manding insight to the principles which effect the human heart towards preferment, the means used to accomplish this end and the various conflicting passions moving onward the whole man to con.summate his beloved pursuit, as to stand spectator in this little community of belliger[e]nts who lustily belabour each other with blows from harmless weapons. Could the hearts of these candidates be made manifest, we should see them filled with the most troublous anxiety, the bitterest envy and perhaps the foulest hatred. While the strife prepared by the tugging labour of their busy friends is going on, they pass many sleepless night and watchful hours till the vote is cast and won or lost. 


Thursday February 7, 1833. I have but just now become aware a great fault into which I have inadvertently fallen, that of studying negligently. One hours dilligent and close application is better than 2 of indifferent thinking. This fact, however, I have not been aware of till lately. It would be well for one [to] exercise himself in close thinking and accustom his mind to vigorous action upon whatever he studies. There is a sloth of the mind as well as of the body which will oblige a man to beg when the hour of mental exertion is expected. 
Friday February 8, 1833. I am almost wholly absorbed in this worlds' concerns so that with shame and confusion I must say my private devotions are wofully neglected. My love has grown cold and every religious affection of my heart is chilled by the wintry winds of winter. 
Saturday February 9, 1833. We are now resciting to Dr. Proudfit in L[atin] and G [reek]. Of all men I can say he is the cleverest that ever crossed me in my wandering thro' life. His jolly Scotch face beams with intelligence and good nature, which is ever and anon lighted up with a funny laugh wholly peculiar to himself. He is not a great man, but is good and well fitted for his station unless it can be said that he is wanting in energy. 
Sunday February 10, 1833. Mr. Gillet left his pulpit supplied by Mr. Dil[l]oway while he returned home on a visit to Granville, Washington County. Mr. D. may be said to be a good sound country preacher, rather above the ordinary grade and possessing a great deal of good sense and experience. After all, those who are good preachers, whose labours are blest with much fruit and whose path is that of [the] just, will receive more approbation of God than the great and popular haranguers. The vain flourish of words and gesture is but an abomination in his sight. 

Monday February 11, 1833. Longinus is supposed to be the best Greek author now extant. His writing appears to resemble Cicero's in style and tho't, for he strings together sentence upon sentence and, when he concludes, the reader is ready to admit that his power of language is great and his tho'ts deep and well arranged. He comes to the subject with admirable precision, not only exhibiting [it] in its general character but also pursuing it through all its various windings. 
Tuesday February 12, 1833. Certain fellows were nicely nonplus[s]ed of late, thinking to bar Prof. Averill, alias "Old Spike," into a hall in the upper part of the Coll. whither he goes every night to visit his subjects in his nightly rounds. These young rogues had proceeded so far as to fasten the door but, instead of groping his way in such a dreary hole without an avenue, he was watching their movements. They were obliged to run with all diligence. 
Wednesday February 13, 1833. Whereváer we roam among other people or with whatever foreign manners we associate, our dear native soil can never be forgotten nor the boyish impressions of its customs and manners be erased from our imagination. Now after a year's [absence?] from N. E. my affections cling around it and every 
connecte d wit er interests 1s most . *****1 . dboccurence . h h . y v1ewe y me. After all the encomiums on N. York and its enterprises, whose territory extends from the Atlantic to the 11Lakes" and from the St Lawrence to Pensylvania, whose Grand Canal is the wonder of this new world, pouring wealth into the hands of its citizens and enriching the State with honours and opulence, and notwithstanding its inhabitants boasts [ofJ superiority to every State in refinement and all the polite arts --give me the pleasant valleys and the bleak hills of New England, the honest homebred Yankee with intelligent mind and all the sweets of his domestic happiness and smiling con.tentment. It is astonishing to mark. .. 
Thursday February 14, 1833 .... the difference between a Dutchman and a Yankee in their varying pursuits and habits. The former is content to be, as his fathers ever have, an unenterprising, sneaking senseless class of men; the latter explores every corner and nook of the habitable earth for wealth and gain, dives to the bottom of inventions and discover[ie]s in order to find some new thing which shall be useful or amusing to mankind. He gets to himself fame by his unwearied exertions and acquires fortune and honour. 

Friday February 15, 1833. At the moment that I am now writing hear "Father Zebedee's" well [bell?] rap upon my door, whose trembling limbs will scarcely bear him. Ever since I have been here he has made his daily rounds with a little basket of nuts, candies, apples or other little notions which he peddles to the students and thereby is enabled to support himself. He is an Englishman and has been obliged to follow this humble livelihood by reason of the palsy which incapacitates him from any other employment. He is a member of the Baptist Church and I believe that, if any man is a humble Christian, it is he. Poor old man, he has but a few more troublesome days to number on earth. 
Saturday February 16, 1833. 1 know men who have a fame above their abilities to sustain it. When we see the efforts of such, disap.pointment always follows and we wonder whence it arises that men are so lavish of their praises. Now here's Prof. Potter, whose charac.ter as a divine ranks among the foremost in our country, who in my view is but little above the mediocricy as a writer or speaker, not.withstanding if I were the only one who tho't so I should be inclined to attribute it mainly to my prejudice or incompetency to judge for others views. As a teacher his pre-eminence is undisputed by any. 
Sabbath February 17, 1833. That the claims of the first day of the week as the Christian sabbath are unfounded by the New Testament i have been often led to believe. It would perhaps seem proper enough to observe the day of Christ's resur[r]ection if we had the authority, and whether the few passages which speak of the disciples or apoástles of Christ being gathered together on the first day of the week sufficiently sanction our present usage I am unable to [say?] altho' I must confess I have my doubts. I must examine. 

Monday February 18, 1833. 1 find that publick opinion is not always a just criterion of deserved merit, for instance in Coll. some of the most diligent scholars and talented young men are wholly unnoticed in the flourish and puffs of some empty-headed numskulls. Those who are the most impudent and reckless, who fear least what the world think or say of them in their headlong career, are generally most popular. Wealth too has great influence on every mind by its gaudy feathers and false plumage, adorning where it cannot amend and make better. 
Tuesday February 19, 1833. Till of late we have had but little snow, which could warrant us in saying that we have a decent winter in that respect. 
Wednesday February 20, 1833. I was amused by an incident which happened at the West Coll. not long since between "Spike" and Haskins, a freshman. It is well known that "Old Averill" tyran[n]iz]es over his little community with a hard sway which sets but ill upon free, highminded young men and, however they like his powers as a teacher, his irascible disposition and overbearing spirit completely disgusts even the better part. Well, as chance would have it, some jolly souls, of whom there are scores of such in Coll. who care less for good order and hard study than to drive dull care away, assembled to chat and laugh an hour or 2 over a bottle of wine. Among these that unlucky wight Haskins took his seat and, as the bottle lowered and their spirits rose, the voices of their merriment reached the ears of Averill in his distant room. It was enough to rouse him to his duty. He lingered but an instant at the door and before the key could be turned walked thro' in a rage bellowing, "What's the cause of this uproar at this unseasonable hour of night?" While the trembling occupants were stuttering out their ill-framed excuses under the fierce frown of Spike, he turned his eyes towards the bed and what should he spy but legs protruding from beneath. "Come out," says he to the owner and repeats his vociferation 2 or 3 times, when H. came creeping out on all four like a dog with tail between his legs. 
"Follow me,11 roared Spike, at the same time making a menacing motion with his hand. H. accompanied him to his room where he was lectured half an hour and dismissed. 

Thursday February 21, 1833. This same Averill, Prof. of Chemistry and Botany, of whom I spoke yesterday, is Librarian to the Coll. and every week his tall slender form appears among us in performance of his office. The Library lies in a distant room of the North Coll. wholly inaccessable only by a long narrow passage, dark, gloomy and closed at each end by doors. 
Now it happened that some students in the midst of their freaks chased one of their fellows into this long hall and closed the door after him; at this moment Old Spike appeared from the Library within, wondering no doubt what mischeivous forces had blockaded his dominons and, placing his shoulder against the door, shoved with all his might to force it. Those without, thinking it was their fellow, not knowing A. was within, tugged like heroes, thumping his hands or kicking his shins as he thrust them out till --suspecting the game --the beseigers fled, leaving A.to shake his sore paws and rub his battered shins without consolation. 
Friday February 22, 1833. In Geometry we have advanced about 11 Thes[es] in the III books. Among the last we had that respecting the square of the hypotenuse, the prettiest and easiest prop[osition] in the whole book in the opinion of everyone. After the demonstration by 2 or 3 of the class, Totten gave us a prop[osition] which pertains to the same figure but not laid down in the book. 
"Prove that the 3 triangles ABC, DHF and JKL are equivalent." Without assuming to myself any great merit and without vanity, I say that on the 3d day after he gave it to the whole class with liberty to think of it a fortnight, I only demonstrated it to the class on the board. By constructing the figure, which I have [done], it is at first sight evident that they are equivalent. I find that in hard thinking on any mathematical question or problem I can succeed much better that the generality of my class, for this was fully demonstrated in Algebra. Altho in some other talents I own I do not exceed, I arro.gate to myself a larger share of industry and, whether truly or not, I believe that I study more than any other in my class. 
Saturday February 23, 1833. On this day I am 20 years of age. Every anniversary of my birthday calls strongly for gratitude to God for his great and signal goodness to me, not only in giving food to eat and raiment, life and being, but [he] has sent the bread of eternal life upon which I may feed and never die but live forever in his presence and enjoy the full fruition of his heavenly countenance. I cannot say a word in extenuation of my unholy deeds, thoughts and 
2?0 
words. Whatever punishment God sends upon me, it will [be] wholly merited for I have returned the blackest ingratitude for all his mercies, slighted [his] command, and followed the devices of my own heart ever ready to break the vows which I have made before all men and Thee. During the year which is to come, why may I not be what I am not? a good Christian as well as a good scholar, friend and example of Christian walk? Nothing hinders but sin, which rules in and over me supremely, but I hope the time will come when I may be more inclined to good living. á 
Sunday February 24, 1833. At least on this day of all others my Sunday-jarring passions should give place to the holy calmness of the Sabbath. Every worldly care, unholy tho't and design not compat[i]ble with a strict observance of this day I am especially bound to banish from my heart. Let Jesus again take his reign, so often usurped by the Devil, and sway my life sweetly thro' every opposing conflict. Oh how sweet this would be. 
Monday February 25, 1833. I regret that during my years past I had not associated more with company and acquired a certain degree of refinement, without which a man is a savage. I do not mean this modern fashionable exquisiteness and politeness, the cheif end of which [is] to talk as long and as much as possible with least sense and appear like a bowing, scraping Frenchmen in company. No, I only wish to appear easy, converse freely on any subject bro't up and show a proper part of good common sense. 
Tuesday February 26, 1833. I often suppose that no one has such peculiar feelings as myself in regard to all the passing events of life, or has so many ups and downs, such depression of spirits, such moody spells or misanthropic feelings. I sometimes wish I were not so subject to these changes and wonder why they are so. Can it be sin, vile, corroding iniquity? I doubt whether it could so alter my feelings on common subjects. It must be a different constitution of heart. 
Wednesday February 27, 1833. Oh that I were a good writer, that mine was the pen of a ready writer bringing forth things original, profound. However, with whatever talents heaven has blest me, it were better to be content and improve them to the utmost degree of perfection in my power. I itch to be great as most other young men do when setting out in life but am too apt to pine for talents which I have [not] rather than profitably use what I have. 
27/ 
Thursday February 28, 1833. "The winter is over and gone," and happy, welcome spring is at hand, the loveliest season in the year. We have no reason to complain of the cold weather thus far since it has been so favourable and has passed off so agreeably, no long blustering storms and chilling winds as usually happens here seen, but on the whole we have had a mild winter. 
Friday March l, 1833. The beginning as well as every ending season calls for gratitude to the Great Maker and Giver of all things. These seasons, varying and different from each other, were not made but for wise reasons. 
Saturday March 2 ,1833. Oh for a sentence [to] write in my diary! a tho't! but I cannot conjure up an idea. I am altogether "run out," as the common phrase has it. What is an idea? A conception formed in the mind. What is the mind, that thinking part of man common to every individual in a greater or less degree? 
Sunday March 3, 1833. How true is it thar man is never satisfied: as age increases and his mind expands by learning and experience, he steps from stage to stage higher in the scale of his existence and still sees new heights above him to be attained. When he looks back and sees the obscure beginnings of his form and character, he is astonished and wonders how he could ever so far exceed the feeble hopes and conceptions of his thin infantile mind. On he pushes, attaining heights, still aiming at some clear object till death stops the trance of existence. 
Monday March 4, 1833. Jackson and Van Buren were this day inaugurated to their respective offices of Pres. and Vice Pres. of the United States. 
I have been thinking about this great state of N.Y., of which so much boast is frequently made as being the greatest, wealthiest, most enterprising in the Union, renowned for free institutions &c &c. After all this boasting, which all may be true, give me N. England, whose inhabitants are better informed than any other portion in the world, de[s]cended from the Pilgrims of Plymouth and almost purely English. Her institutions may emphatically be said to be free, for literature [and] science is patronised bountifully, and her people are liberally represented in her Legislative Assemblies. This Great N. Y. has not 150 representatives while the state of N. H. has nearly 309. 
2.7Z 
Friday March 5, 1833. Coll. is one of the best schools in which to acquire a knowledge of human nature that we can imagine. Every kind of vice and contrivance or the accomplishment of selfish purposes exhibit the true character as well as in the more extensive stage of the world. We by no means derive all our advantages from study. It is this, but a part of man's education, to trace the sources of the various acts of men; to penetrate the various avenues of his heart and bring out the reasons of his numerous pursuits is no mean employment. 
Wednesday March 6, 1833. I don't believe there is another man in the world who has such a barren, fruitless mind as mine. If I search my cranium thro' and thro' for an original tho't, it never comes; if I would write even a letter to a familiar friend, it takes hours to scribble it off, which with so much labour is insipid and flat; and [if] I would extemporise a bit, my noodle refuses to lend a sentiment. My "Vox faucibus baesit" for want of a word to express nothing, so I must so [slow?] down in vexation. It is humbling to my pride thus to be afflicted. It is true by hard study I can get a lesson, but then not without double exertion which others use. Even these are soon forgotten and the same irksome task must be again performed. 
Thursday March 7, 1833. On the whole this Geometry is a pretty dry study because it requires not the least exertion of the mind except that of memory which, however good in its place, will never make a vigorous intellect. True, it is a pretty exercise to prove this angle is equal to that &c &c. but in the name of all thats funny where [is] the mental exertion used in study[ing] the first 4 books of Geometry? 
Friday March 8, 1833. In part I fully appreciate that truth of Solomon, "much study is a weariness to the flesh," for after studying 10 or 12 weeks with[out] any relaxation upon a dry uninteresting study, every vacation is anticipated [with] great satisfaction. I suppose there is no one in our class who studies more than I do; 
almost invariably this term has found me at my books before 5 o'clock and frequently at 4. I might get along very well, perhaps, with much less study but the cause of the whole matter is this: ambi.tion prompts me to aim at a considerable degree of exellence or even so much as to retain the character for scholarship which I have already acquired. 
173 
Saturday March 9, 1833. I must confess that nothing affords me so much pleasure than [as] to see a man feel well when contemplating his own person and accomplishments andnd strutting in his new clothes. 
Oh what a good opinion he has of himselfl Others are pigmies when measured by his dis[c]erning eye. How the ladies love me, says he to himself, when they see my pretty fashionable apparel, erect gait, jewels and trinkets of gold. 
No matter whether he has a copper in the world besides what he wears, he will tell you of his friends' wealth, his father's marriage and noble equipage, of his intended excursions and a thousand deceptive stories all garnished with an unseemly gloss which everyone knows is a lie. I said I was pleased to see such senseless dandies flitting about because I am delighted to laugh at their folly, which is conspicuous in every step of these silly men wherever they go. 
Sunday March 10, 1833. The Sabbath comes and goes without bringing any pleasure to me. The faithful watchman's cry, the unbroken continuance of God's favors, the fear of merited judge.ments, or the regard for his commands and the vows which bind me to their fulfilment fail to incite me to a performance of my religious duties and create a love to the Giver of any good and perfect gift. 
"Come, Holy Spirit, Heavenly Dove, with All thy quickening powers." 
Oh who can tell the unhappiness of a lukewarm, backslidded Christian! His anguish is keener than even the ungodly feels in the midst of his course, but when his life accords with statu[t]es of Christ, how happiness smiles upon his cheek and sparkles in his eye, how his b[uo]yant soul would mount and fly away to be with Jesus. 
Monday March 11, 1833. I have nothing today but a story. Fact. a certain Waters, no less celebrated in these parts for his skill in medicine than for his vile profligacy, was dispatched by the Dr. with whom he studied into a part of Vermont to collect some debts due him on account. Waters was notorious in his young days and in fact while he lived for his love of mischeif in which he always showed a fertile genius and a happy boldness. In the course of his journey he had occasion to stop at a litttle country tavern of rather ordinary appearance for the night and while his homely supper was prepared listened to the sage conversation of the bar room occupants. He soon found the subject to be a disturbance in the school of the district in which the master was dethroned and sent away in disgrace by sundry two-fisted chaps who ruled "vi et armes." Finding at length that they were in a quandary to find some master who could rule this unruly school, Waters --seeing some room for sport --offered his services, saying he was in search of such an office and did not wish to go further. Our frlends told [him] that he appeared rather young to undertake a task and that they feared he would meet a similar fate with his predecessor. Waters however told them he would teach without compensation if he did not manage well and succeed to their satisfaction. At least, he said, he would try a few days, which could do no hurt. 

They agreed to the proposal to have the school commence on the day following. He mounted his horse and rode to the school, which was soon filled with great and small, ready no doubt for another tuscle [ tussle]. He eyed the motley crew and soon prepared to commence operations by first locking the door. He then stripped off his coat and rolled up his shirt sleeves, at the same [time] priming his couple of pistols from his powder, both of which he laid upon the table with a nice rawhide whip.Who can tell the affrighted looks, the scorn and anger which {showed?] upon each countenance? The discriminating eye of Waters soon singled out about a dozen whom he tho't were the cheif movers of the insurrection; these he ordered to advance singly, beginning at the first. His fierce and determined manner, his commanding voice, his awful denunciation upon him who disobeyed, and the cocked pistols above all, forbade a repetition of his commands. In sullen silence the great brawny giants stood before Waters who, tho' half their stature, was double in soul and courage, and in succession he gave them as severe a beating upon their naked backs as his strength would permit. The younger part, with sobs and cr[ie]s tho't their time had come. "Silence!" roared W., "or I'll blow you too!." Having thus cowed them to the best of his abilities with his whip, he mounted his horse, threatening death to anyone who stirrred from the house or dared to molest him, telling them at the same time that he had closed his school and should trouble them no more. 
The school all was thoroughly cured and was afterwards known as altogether tractable. 
Tuesday March 12, 1833.The dawning of morning does not give to the midnight and lonely wanderer more joy than do the first indications of lovely spring draw forth the spontaneous acknowledge ments of all creation. The air once chill grows soft and delightful, the birds sport in the branches, and the wanton lambs skip about their patient dams! Oh what is there that does not partake of the universal gladness? 

Wednesday March 13, 1833. However much injured by others, it is more blessed to forgive than retaliate. 
How much soever exalted above your fellows, always con.descend to show yourself their equal. Thus you will gain their friendship. 
Never dispise the friendship of a dog, for even he may injure or aid you. Pride will gain you no friends but many enemies. 
Thursday March 14, 1833. The more I become informed in the subject of baptism by means of the Bible and other books which treat of the ordinance, I become a more thoro' Baptist. How strange a thing that men who are so deeply versed in Sacred Literature, as some men at the present day, should act contrary to their ar[r]oused sentiments! I can attribute it to nothing else than stubbom[n]ess or a love [ of] popularity. Sure I am that they would not be so inclined unless self-interest was in the way. But truth is mighty and will prevail. The Baptist denomi[nation] which but a few years ago were few in nos. have now arrived to the precedency over every other denom. 
Friday March 15, 1833. My chum, Who is a Presbyterian, and I have had frequent disputes on the subject (baptism) but with all his far.fetched arguments, which are wonderfully indirect and beside the Bible, and unsound logic, I find him a weak opponent even when united with every possible assistant. The truth is, they have no good grounds to go upon. They may argue upon non-essentialism as much as is good, it is a weak, unsound and unscriptural argument. When will men learn to be consistent in religion? 
Saturday March 16,1833. I find no day in the week so irksome to me as this day on which I am exempt from study. I almost invariably do nothing but attend Soc. and squander the rest in idleness, so that when the evening comes I am pained to think that I have lost most of a day. Oh that I could realise as I ought the value of time and had some regular system by which to regulate my leisure moments. 

[have] often spoken before of the waste of time, and it will have to be told often that it is the one greatest gift of Heaven. 
Lordsday, March 17, 1833. The Lord knows how cold I am. Oh wretch that I am thus to deny my Lord and p[ie]rce his side afresh with my unbelief, impiety and ingratitude. No one knows but those who have experience what a Coll. is for the Christian who, when once he enters within these walls, feels the damp chills of infidelity, his love cool, his grace languish, and his whole soul sunk in sin. The time will seem sweet when I go forth from this dead damp. Oh I cannot live here. The fault is greatly owing to myself. 
Monday March 18, 1833. We are reviewing our studies now with a view to the approaching examination, which commences a week from today. 
Tuesday March 19, 1833. Proselyte Baptism is one of the main pillars upon which Pedobaptists build. What are tre proofs of it? In the first place nothing of this kind appears in the writings of the Old Testament, which cheifly concern the Jewish nation. Many persons are mentioned who became proselytes, and their circumcision implied as the only rite by which they became such, while not a word thro' the whole Bible so much as hints of the ceremony of baptism, only in the case of ceremonial pollution, in which the Israelite was equally bound to participate with the Gentile proselyte. There was but one rite to the stranger or proselyte and home-born Israelite per Exod: XII 48,49. 
Wednesday March 20, 183 3. Secondly. The Books of the Apochrypha, supposed to be written between those of the Old and New Testa.ments by Jews, and containing what generally pertains to them, mention no such rite in the admission of proselyte to the Jewish religion. Thirdly. Proselytes were mentioned in the New Testament 
(Math. XX.III 15, Acts ii, 10 vs and xiii 43) but nothing is said concerning their admission and the manner of it. 
Thursday March 21, 1833. Fourthly. Neither is their any mention in the writings of those who lived a short time after: as of Philo the Jew, the Books of Bahir Zahar, the Tarquin of Grikelos or the Pent[a]t[e]uch of Jonathan Ben Uzriel or the Prophets. 
Flfthly. Josephus, the celebrated Jewish historian, who lived shortly after, well versed in all the affairs of the Jew both religious 
177 
and civil, writes of whole nations who became proselytes by circum.cision as well as of many eminent persons but never once says a word of baptism altho' he could not well have avoided it if this had been practiced in his time. 
Friday March 22, 1833. Sixthly. Is nothing said of baptism in the Tarquins or Chaldee? Paraphrases of the best and most antient are that of Jona. Ben Uzriel and Grikelos, the one at the beginning and the other at the end of the first cent[ury]. Not a word is said in them; and in the other Tarquins, which are of uncertain ages and authors, but evidently of a modern date, only one or 2 instances have been found of dipping the proselytes. 
Seventhly. The Mis[h]nah or book of traditions, which is a collection of all the traditions among the Jews which have been _ handed down from age to age, is silent on this matter notwith.standing what has been waged in favour of Proselyte Baptism from it. It was written by R. Judah Hakkadah. in A.D. 150 or, as many writers say, later. 
Saturday March 23, 1833. Eighthly. Nor is this rite or custom of receiving Jewish proselytes by baptism once spoken of by any of the Christian fathers of the 1st 3 or 4 centuries, which they could not be ignorant of if from hence Christian baptism was taken and especially such as were Jews or had any connection with them or were acquain.ted with them and with their affairs as some of them were. Barnabas was a Jew and wrote an epistle, now extant, upon the Jewish rite, and of their fulfilment so far as they were typical of evangelical things. Justin Martyr, who lived in the 2d cent[ury], says so much as that there was no such thing as proselyte baptism and in his dispute with Trypto the Jew there is evidence against the practice &c &c. 1 have taken these remarks from Dr; Gile's work on Proselyte Baptism. 
Sunday March 24, 1833. The proof of this practice is only from the Talmuds or Talmudical writers. There [are] 2 Talmuds, the one called Jerusalem and the other Babylonian, the former being the most antient. The opinions as to its age are various as the authors who have written on the subject. Some say it was finished in 220, others 422, 469, 370, 369, 360, 100. The Babylonian is usually said to have been finished in 500 A.D. 
Both of these contain instances of baptism but from what we can gather we should infer that it was not considered necessary and always used, for there is some dispute about the matter. 
278 
Monday March 25,1833. The reasons of the Dr. why Christian is not founded on and taken from the pretended Jewish baptism of Israelites and Proselytes are 1st. The Talmuds are of too late a date to prove that such a custom obtained before or during the days of John and Christ, since they were written some centuries after those times. 
Secondly, this custom aitho' observed as a religious action had scarcely any appearance of religion in it, but looks rather like a civil affair, being in some case under the cognisance of the Grand San.hedrin or court of judicature. 
Tuesday March26, 1833. Thirdly. To suppose that John took up the practice of baptising as he found it among the Jews and from a tradition and custom of theirs, greatly detracts from his character, his divine mission and the credit of his baptism as administered by him, and is contrary to what the scriptures say concerning him. 
4thly. The Jews will not allow that any proof of baptism can be produced out of the writings of the Old Testament nor out of their Talmuds. 
Wednesday March 27, 1833. Fifthly. To say that Christ took his baptism out of the hands of the Jews is greatly to derogate from his character and divine authority, for can it be believed that he would establish any one of the traditions of the Jews and make it one of his when he so often inveighed against their traditions? 
Sixthly. Such a notion as this highly reflects dishonor on the ordinance of baptism; that one of the principal ordinances of the New Test[ament] as that is should be founded on human decision or invention of men. 
Thursday March 28, 1833. Our class were examined last Tuesday morning in Tacitus, Geometry and Greek and as usual aquited ourselves handsomely, at least so the Committee say. The general attendence and conduct has been remarkably good. But a few have any marks for absences and these are by excuse. 
The ending of a term of study in Coll. brings many sorrowful reflections to me. A cloud of gloom hangs over the deserted wall of U [nion] as her sons retire to their homes for the few short weeks of vacation, and I never can visit the Colls. during this time of vacancy with any degree of pleasure. There is not a more delightful prospect in the country than that which spreads out before the Coll. hill, nor a more charming grove than that which lines the little rivulet in the rear; but disconnected with that other charm, its happy inmates, they have no charms for me. I anticipate a pleasant summer in the company of those I love, rambling the groves, gazing upon the rural prospects of opening vegitation and bathing our limbs in the silver waters of the Mohawk. 

All the classes have gone but the Seniors who were this day released, many never to return. A few only in the Jr. class were not sustained in the examination. So I'll to my home till the 26th of April. 
Friday March 29, 1833. Bro. Eaton and I have taken a room in our 
house for the vacation which I am going to spend in writing, reading. 
I have begun Moshinn's Church His[tory] and as I pass along mean to make a note of such parts as I think will be important to me. There is no prettier exercise, not only for stren[g]th[en]ing the memory and storing up important facts, but also to accustom one always while reading to look for some useful ideas and to give habits of attention. 
Saturday March 30, 1833. Some nations were without temples, such as Persians, Gauls, Germans and Britons, who performed their religious worship in the open air or in the shady retreats of con.secrated groves. (Notes in Moshin's His.) 
Two kinds of philosophy prevailed at the time of Christ's birth. The one was the philosophy of the Greeks, adopted also by the Romans; and the other that of the Orientals which had a great no. of votar[i]es in Persia, Syria, Chaldea, Egypt and even among the Jews. The former was distinguished by the simple title of Philosophy. The latter was honoured with the more pompous appelation of Science or Knowledge since those who embraced this latter sect pretended to be restorers of the Knowledge of God which was lost in the worlds. (Moshinn's His.) 
It seems by the history of the various sects of philosophers and heretics that, however they differed in some respect, they either directly or indirectly generally held some of the 2 above-mentioned pernicious doctrines. Perhaps these may be said to have been the foundation of most of them. 
Sunday March 31, 1833. We are frequently asked why the Sabbath by the Christian Community has been neglected for the first day of the week, since we have no command[ment] for such in the New Testament. 
I may not be right in what I say in authority for such practice that the whole Jewish dispensation is abrogated and in its stead we have received the more perfect and less laborious service of Jesus 
260 
Christ, and we are bound to observe the Law only as far as the New Testament enjoins its precepts upon our consciences. It cannot be disputed that we have only example for worship on either day, nei.ther that we have precedent for observing the first as well as the 7th. Then why are we bound to the Old Jewish Sabbath and said to be [innovatory?] when we keep holy the first? 
Monday April 1, 1833. It maketh glad the heart or man to go abroad in the fields and see the wonderful works of nature, breath[e] the fresh air, and freely sport on this the carpet of nature in the elas.ticity of youth. What infidels and atheists we are in practice when we drink in all these exhil[[i]arating pleasures which flow from an enjoy.ment of nature and never turn an eye upward to the origin of all these nor give him the adoration of a grateful heart. If it does not argue well the depravity of the whole man and proclaim his selfishness, I cannot judge of so evident a fact. 
Tuesday April 2, 1833. I am unhappy continually; my heart pains me. I am dissatisfied with all my life and conduct. There is no peace in my breast, which is rankling with every evil passion. Oh what a troublesome world this is, or rather sinful heart, which will never let me be. Like a poisonous fountain which contaminates every stream which flows from it, so this lump of inequity poisons all my actions and tho'ts. I must shake off these habits of indolence which drag down this mind to the medium of beasts and tend to fix it where no good will ever be produced. 
Wednesday April 3, 1833. However much I promise myself to accomplish in vacation, it ever happens that it is passed in laziness without ever turning to any real account. It is no source of happiness to me thus to spend my time so that when the term commences I am not a whit bettered by a vacation of S or 6 weeks which, if well spent, would have proved a source [ofJ great pleasure to me. My case is not the only one of the kind, which proves the sloth in general of students when away from the coercive influence of Coll. and its laws, having all the pursuits [of] a fanciful world to entice their attention. 
Thursday April 4, 1833. I often think of the folly of the world in general who so much prize outward ornaments and neglect the inward accomplishments of the mind and heart, making this world their little temple of worship and its vain gaudy bubbles their Gods and goddesses. 
28f 
Friday April 5, 1833. Not a day passes over my head but I disfigure its fair page with foul blots of sins, not a blessing is confered from the hand of Great Go[o?]dness but I in return give ingratitude, black ingratitude such as is worthy rather of Devils than man. 
' 
Saturday April 6, 1833. This day in a Covenant meeting of our church I publickly resolved to live a better life in future, discarding sin and the devil, and looking unto God with a greater degree of assurance and faith. Oh these are blessed meetings where brethren mingle heart in heart, confess their sins and exhort another to hold fast in the profession of their faith till Christ shall come the second time for our deliverance. Father Sheldon, Bros. Gillett, Eaton and myself were chosen to attend an ordination in Auriesville on the 10th. 
Sunday April 7, 1833. Since Bro. Eaton came, our choir of singers have very much improved under his instruction and it now seems rather a delight to hear their music, which was before but dissonant sounds. In many respects good singing is equal to good preaching in its effect upon the congregation. 
Monday April 8, 1833. I have improved my vacation to little advan.tage yet have read some on the History of Baptism and the first vol. of Mosshin's Church History, laid abed too late and been out every evening in the week either to someá religious or singing meeting. I think this is too great a conversion of my time to objects which are not connected with my studies. 
Tuesday April 9, 1833. I have often heard it remarked, and with a great degree of truth, that the character which a man has in Coll. for scholarship and general literature can by no means be taken as a certain criterion of his future life. If he is a prime scholar or orator and writer, if he has combined a great deal of talent for everything in which he engages, the peculiar circumstances of a Coll. life may still forbid us to reckon with truth on that man's future course. His ambition to excel may have been cooled, his steady perseverence may flag, the world may be too wide and uncertain a sphere for him even to think of excelling in it. He sees others at great height above him and innumerable obstacles to impede his advancement. In view of all these he may, yea often does, sink into obscurity and inaction who once bid fair to shine like a star in the firmament. The opposite is the case with many others who at first showed least signs of promise .. 
Their steady industry, although at first unnoticed, continuing to 
282 
ply itself, gradually brings the man into notice. He spends not all his strength and energies at once, gains the favour of a moment and then sinks back exhausted and spiritless. He confines his limits only with earth and life and increases with every successive effort. 
Wednesday April 10, 1833. The sun arose clear, nature smiled and put on her most gracious look as we mounted to ride up the Mohawk. My company was agreeable, consisting of those whom I mentioned on Sat. with the addition of Eld[er] Harris from Burnt Hill. As I rode out of town over the majestic Mohawk I anticipated much pleasure in seeing his broad waters rolling in solemn silence along as they did a thousand [years] ago when the lordly Indian sported on his bank and skipped over his smooth bos[s]om in his light canoe. Grain fields and pleasant prospects too I fancied with rocks and craigs, lofty mountains. However I will leave off dreaming to tell of my waking visions. 
From Schenectady to Smith Dam we found the turnpike more or less mudy as it passed along upon the flats or rose on the more elevated grounds which border the river all the way up. This valley of the Mohawk, which extends up a great distance into the country, sometimes widening out into broad rich flats and then again pre.senting only a narrow passage between the lofty woody summits on either side, appears to be the only passage thro' which a river could possibly run. A strong cool breeze is always blowing thro' it either towards the east or west. On our way up, as luck would have it, my friend Eaton, who had the reins, fell a dozing. Reason and perception left their seats and gave place to the very flights [of] fancy and imagination, till they were recalled by the loud crash of what? of some over-hanging crag or aged tree whose mouldering roots has refused to sustain a rotten trunk? No --but of our waggon with another coming from an opposite direction at full speed. Who never felt the blended emotions of sorrow anger, disappointment when his 
' 
fond expectations of pleasure and the full attainment of a desired object were at once frustrated? Well, to come to the plain matter of fact upon the subject, both our "shafts" were broken close to the waggon so that there was no remedy but new ones, and how were these to be obtained in this place? However, we continued to drag the waggon along for a mile or 2 without a tiller, to a bungler's shop where we waited 2 or 3 hours while the rest of our company went on to Amsterdam. The intermediate time flowed heavily while our little workman was mending the vehicle. We were soon on our way to Amsterdam where we found the rest of our co[mpany]. This is a little country village of not much importance and beauty either as it regards situation and make. Here a no. of mills upon a little stream which áin summer is nearly [dry?] but in. spring and fall affords abundance of water. From hence to Auriesville there isn't much to awaken curiosity or charm the admiration. There are some country seats which I liked and pleasant views which we often had of the Mohawk, sprinkled with little islands, some barren and others woody. From the hill opposite the north of Scoharie Creek, a delightful feast [for?] the soul of the beholder as he wanders over the varied landscape, the binding [bounding?] Mohawk, the wide rich fertile flats, the broad mouth of the Scoharie Creek and its artificial waterfall. The resplendent rays of the setting sun as he hid himself behind the west and the associations of past times all awaken[ed] in me mingled feelings of pleasure and regret. Fort Hunter is near, so celebrated in the Indian's history of his wars and bloody deeds, for [on] every hill, in every valley his bones are scattered about this or near this antient relic, which the farmer's plough often brings to view. 

Our host is one of those good open-hearted Baptist brethren whose heart is large [as] his house and provisions. 
Thursday April 11, 1833. Today we crossed the river and performed the services of Bro. Green's ordination before a decent little congre.gation of some hundred. The exercises were solemn and appropriate to the occasion. Took tea at Esqr. Fish's and rode to Amsterdam where Bro. Gillett preached. 
Friday April 12, 1833. This day is beautifully calculated for a journeying season, the air is neither too cold nor too hot, the sky is clear and all nature is serene. In returning we crossed to the south side of the river where, altho' the road was not so good, yet the change of prospects amply compensated for all the pain of a rough and muddy way. At noon we rode into Schenectady safe and sound, having escaped all the perils subject to travellers and a good share of their enjoyments. 
Saturday April 13, 1833. Read the Baptist Annual Register which I think is a fine thing for our denomination because it serves to dis[s]eminate some general information as it respects our Missionary Domestic Tract, Bible and various other efforts, the general success of these efforts and our numbers and increase. No denomination, if perhaps the Methodist is an exception, have increased so rapidly in nos., respectability and influence as ours. A half century ago what were we? But a scatttered, harrassed few who for conscience's sake endured shame and contempt. But the era is not far off when our 

principles will prevail and every anti-Christian doctrine will falL 
Sunday April 14, 1833. In order to be fully armed for resisting every adversary to our peculiarity of belief I have made Baptism my subject of meditation and study for some time and now feel a pretty good degree of assurance in my combative powers on this subject. I see no reason to be affraid but [employ?] every consideration to make known my sentiments on every proper occasion. 
Monday April 15, 1833. Oh! There is no pleasure in all the path of ambition, whether its aim be at small or great things, for pain and anxiety attends all in some degree. Who can tell with what degree of fear I anticipate the beginning of each term lest per chance my character as a scholar may be in some way lowered, or some more successful rival soar above me; yes, and when the term has com.menced and I find my reputation can be sustained, how some of my rescitations are dreaded lest I may blunder. I fear when least of all there is any cause even when by common application every whit of my lessons can be perfectly got. I am well aware that this is perfect folly "to borrow trouble" when there is not the least occasion. 
Tuesday April 16, 1833. There are 200 or 300 negroes in this city in the most deplorable condition of degradation and misery generally speaking, drunkards, profane and beastly vagabonds. They live in the outskirts in little miserable hovels and are frequently fighting with each other, especially on the sabbath which with them is the greatest day of their revelry. Till of late no efforts have been made to better the condition of these poor illiterate Affricans. A school is now established for them and under the direction of Mr. Willis, otherwise called "Father" or "Da[d]dy Willis." They hold meetings on the Sabbath besides various prayer meetings on other occasions and a no. [ofJ hopeful conversions have taken place even among the most hopeless persons. 
Wednesday April 17, 1833. I have not seen a more beautiful prospect about Schenectady than is seen from the top of the hill on which the Negro Burying Ground is situated, about 1/2 a mile s[outh] of the city. I pass over it every Sabbath on my way to the factory and often think it worth my pains only to see the beautiful valley of the Mohawk stretching out before me, variegated in the niost enchanting manner. As for a view of the city, it is on no side worth much to look at the black irregular clumps of old houses, but if there is any handsome side to it, it is that side. The canal bends off towards the W[est] like a narrow strip of silver while toward the S[outh] the railroad binds around and ascends the hill to the level. Hardly a minute passes except it brings with it a boat in view laden with the produce of the industrious western inhabitants or the rich merchandise of every nation. Eight or 10 loaded cars is no uncommon sight upon the railroad at one trip. And then the landscape is so well blended with the necessary prerequisites to a good scene, viz. water, groves, houses and other works of art, all distributed in [such?] due proportion that one could not fail to pronounce it a perfect scene. 

Thursday April 18, 1833. I often think, and with how much truth I cannot say! that my disposition is rather peculiar as far as it regards my feelings towards my fellow men. It is impossible for me to look upon others with such haughty contempt which many have but even to the vilest wretch I can speak and feel as tho' he were my equal. I say this w'out any degree of self praise. I say to myself as a poor man passes me, what better am I than this poor man whom altho' his body be not covered with rich clothing and his appetite pampered with dainties has nevertheless a precious soul and without doubt more exellent natural talents than my favoured self. It is not he who makes the fairest outside show that always has the noblest soul and soundest mind. Yea many a beggar that craves a penny to buy a famishing [furnishing?] morsel has such a mind that if it were only cultivated would do honour to himself and service to his country. This cruel neglect perhaps is no fault of his own. 
Friday April 19, 1833. How delightful a study is that of mankind, yea the greatest. As a poet expresses it in this study, it not only extends to the investigation [of] the corporeal system and internal structure of man but more particularly to all his various relations with one another and the various springs which give rise to those momentous changes which sometimes overwhelm the world in blood or fill it with awe and admiration. It would be a source of infinite satisfaction to be able to influence my fellow men to do good by some rich knowledge of his various avenues thro' which his mind may be affected and passions influenced. This would be a grand victory over the stubbornness of human nature. 

Saturday April 20, 1833. I am surprised that this study is not the more cultivated since it is so important. Would it not be well for Coll. students to turn their attention towards this and in the little community of which they are one so observe the various characters which compose the whole that they can, if occasion requires, exert their knowledge to great profit. You must know the temperament [of] the man with whom you have to do before any important step can be taken towards gaining the ascendency over his affections and, this known, a great degree of skill is requisite to manage him adroitly. Long attention and close observation are indispensable. 
Sunday April 21, 1833. I want no surer testimony against any city or village than to see the inhabitants on the sabbath riding to and fro for pleasure, hanging about the taverns, and lazily spending the hours of this holy [day] to their own gratifications and great sin against their souls. Let him who would read the character of a place only spend a sabbath there and if he is a man of one whit of discrim.ination his eyes will not fail to tell him the truth. This truth cannot be disputed when applied to individuals ~nd, if ver[i]fied in single cases, what hinders its certainty in collective bodies in which undoubtedly are more or less notorious Sabbath-breakers? 
Monday April 22, 1833. Truth and Originality are the scarcest things in the world. The former forsook the -habitation of man long ago and now is only found in the bottom of old wells, and the nooks and corners of the earth where the eye of Ambition and Interest never penetrated. The latter is possessed only by a chosen few who seem to be selected by heaven, as it were, to preserve pure the golden lamp and keep its dim light burning lest it should be forever extinguished and leave the world in darkness. 
Sloansville Tuesday April 23, 1833. Yesterday afternoon by the earnest solicitation [of] Mr. Dane, who has lately come from the east, I rode over to Sloansville in Scoharie where he has a bro[ther] residing whom he wishes to see. We hired a horse and buggy with the intention of returning today but, wishing to visit the courthouse 7 miles distant, he sent the horse back and we concluded to walk the rest of the way. In coming over I saw nothing worthy of note. The country appears to resemble the New England country very much both as to soil and the general appearance and face of the country. 
The weather was the most disagreeable that could be imagined for a visit of pleasure or discovery. A cold wind and lowering sky threatened rain. We however contrived to spend the time as agreeably as possible, visited a few ladies, sung, chatted, yawned and wished the tomorrow to come. I took up Bunyan's Holy War (a book never absent from the good man's library especially if he lives in the country) and read half of it or more, and if any work ever bore the marks of an original author it is this. I certainly never found such an entire singularity of style from every other book except those of the same man as this useful and entertaining work. 

Court House, Scoharie 
Wednesday April 24, 1833. Who can tell the pain and surprise which 
I felt this morning as I heard the rain descending upon the roof and 
the fierce wind howling without. My anticipated pleasure was gone 
and I covered my head with the bed clothes to hide from the 
unpleasant sound. Yet about 9 the rain ceased and altho' the black 
flying clouds overcast the heavens, still it was evident that the storm 
had subsided for the day at least in its violence. 
We bid our good, homely friends good bye after dinner and 
walked to the Court House along a road which follows the course of 
the creek pretty nearly, upon the banks of which some of the best 
land and richest farms in the country are tilled. A black alluvial mud . is the nature of the soil on such farms. 
The face of the country is much more hilly than on the other 
side of the Helleburg which, together with the surrounding hills, are 
a spur of the Cat[t]skill mountains. I have before mentioned the "old 
stone church" in Scoharie but till now never had a close view of it, 
which to me was a relick of no small interest. The bare walls are 
embel[l]ished with neither paint nor plaster but as the venerable 
stones showered [?] in the Indian wars, so now are they seen covered 
with names of different individuals whose bodies lie beneath or 
about the building. It is of a square form with small low windows, a 
porch at one end and 2 stories high. On the porch which extends 
above the top of the house is a tower and bell. Under the e[a]ves on 
the back side is still to be seen a ball hole from which a ball was 
taken, which is seen in Mr. Gebhard's Cabinet. 
It is worthwhile, too, if one has leisure, to step into the burying 
ground where are some very old monuments. We stopped first at Dr. 
Van Dykes where we took tea. This is a most engaging family 
consisting of 3 young ladies and their father, who lost his wife last 
year by the cholera. He is the most perfit model of Christian charac.
ter that has come under my observation this many years, devout, 
fervent, generous, easy and familiar with his friends and faithful to 
his God. He exhibits an eminent example of the purity which the Christian religion aims at. His daughters are very amiable and 

engaging in their deportment. 
The evening we spent at Mr. Lasel's with a very interesting family. Sang, played, talked till 1O and retired to bed. This village of Scoharie is situated upon one of the most delightful and fertile valleys in the country, and aitho' not very extensive combines much that is beautiful and grand in nature and rare in the mineral and vegitable world. 
Scoharie Court House Thursday April 25, 1833. The only publick buildings are a stone 
Court House and old brick Lutheran Chapel. 
The weather is beautiful and invites us [to] walk "over the hills and far away" but we conclude to confine our minds and steps another day within the Valley. 
This morning Mr. Dane and I, accompanied by Dr. Hubbard, spent most agreeably in seeing Esqr. Gebhard's rare and valuable cabinet of minerals and curiosities. I have never seen so neat a collection and such perfect order in their disposal. His specimens of stalagmites and stalactites, I presume, are not equalled by any, all of which he obained with much labor and expense from the cave 3 miles N. E. of this. From the mountains, too, he has got numerous petrifactions of animals and vegitables, which are subjects of great wonder and curiosity. He is perfectly polite and easy especially to visitors to whom he is always pleased to show his cabinet. If this were all the attractions which Scoharie has, it is enough to invite the attentions of every lover of nature and student of her rarest works. 
In the afternoon we made up a party of ladies and gent. for the purpose of visiting the "ledge," so called, on the mountain or rather precipice which lies along the west side of the valley. This remark.able curiosity I before spoke of in my journey last summer to the Cave. There are 3 veins of rocks above each other, of which the lowest is the most remarkable as it is both wider and more con.spicuous than the others from its prominence. Our walk to the last ledge was a long one and quite laborious for the ladies who never.theless bore it much better than our city misses who think they can hardly go to church without a carriage to ride in. Besides our com.panions have often been up before. 
The Creek almost laves the foot of the precipice with its pure waters as it murmurs over the stoney bed. Over this we passed by a neat covered bridge and passed thro' delightful fields and groves filled with birds which at this season send forth their bl[i]the notes. 
183 
The ascent to the first ledge is not very steep but quite accessible even to a horseman. However with some hard breathing and long sighs we gained the summit and in a short time stood upon the ~Table Rock," which of course must be noted for its flatness and as the most favourable spot from which the prospect is gained. 
One may well suppose we had no objections to sit down and partake of some refreshments which our fair companions had pro.vided for us, much less to feast our eyes upon this charming scene which lay spread out before us like a living picture. It was perfect aitho not extensive, truly mingled with just proportions of woodland and tilled, hills and pla[in] water and the works of art. The 2 creeks in their serpentine course were everywhere seen either by their silvery-waters or the dark foliage of the over-hanging trees which lined their banks. The beautiful arches of the bridge, too added not a 
' 
little to the scene, nor the distant steeple which pierced the heavens far towards that blessed abode of which the venerable edifice to which it was attached was a faint semblance. The busy husbandmen who were preparing their rich land for the seed looked like pigmies driving their tiny cattle either to trace the scarcely distinguished furrow or draw the baby cart. In fact I could turn my eyes nowhere from the enchanting scene. Above, nature had hung her eternal rocks, piled in savage grandeur, on whose tempest-beaten brow towered the sturdy oak of centuries; below, she spread out a vale than which it would be difficult to imagine a more beautiful, and all around like a vast amp[h]itheatre is cast the circle of her everlasting hills. Altho' the creek runs as it were close under the precipice above which we now stood, with all my might I could not thro' a stone into it --so deceitful does distance appear to our eyes. 
On our way home we came across a cart into which we all packed ourselves and rode to Mr. Lasell's where we took tea and spent the evening. 
Scoharie Friday, April 26, 1833. There never was a more beautiful day --the sun rose clear, every bird of the grove seemed to awake to meet and do him honour by his little song. The pearly dew which glistened on every blade of grass and trembled on every leaf was quickly sipped by his warm rays --yea all nature was clothed with joy and charmingly praised him who is the author of it all. We arose betimes in order to proceed on our journey, but so facinating was the com.pany of our friends that we scarcely left them at 12 o'clock to go 23 miles to Schenectady. The village school master proceeded a mile or more with us and parted with much regret, at least apparently so. The sun poured down his scorching [rays] with a double vigour, it seemed, upon our unprotected backs as we ascended the long and steep ascent which leads us out of the valley towards which I took the last look of mingled regret and pleasure on leaving such kind friends. 

But I have not yet so much as given the celebrated cave a passing tho't or, at least, remark in my travels, on the account of which the principle toil of my journey was taken. We passed within 1/2 a mile of the spot but we were credibly informed the boats were on the other end of the lake which of course precluded our further search to explore the dark recesses of the cavern till others are procured. 
We neither saw or heard anything worth noting on our way back to Schendy where we arrived about 8 tired and hungry. 
Saturday April 27, 1833. Students are as usual returning in squads. I have been disagreeably employed during the day in placing my room in a fit state to be ten[e]able. We are soon to come under the discipline and routine of a Coll. life again, which in many respects are toilsome but on the whole will be found to be the happiest days of our lives. 
Sunday April 28, 1833. It is impossible to read the dark and hidden secrets of man's heart or tell the depth of iniquity into which that invaluable jewel may be sunk, how far its bright luster may be dimmed by the foul passions of the human heart or follow the intricate windings thro' which it leads man in all his career of crime. Oh! who can look upon himself and not shud[d]er at the sight of the immeasurable influence he can exert either for the injury of man or his advantage? Or behold that soul, that breath of the Almighty himself, which distinguishes us from all other animals and not raise his that' to the great source and giver of all things? 
Monday April 29, 1833. Prof. Jackson is our instructor in Geom't., Dr. Proudfit in Greek and Prof. Yates in Logick, all good teachers and men who are long experienced in their professions. Tutor Totten, to whom all rescited last term, has taken a prof.-ship in Wash[ington] Coll., Hartford, Conn. Many of [the] former classes have spoken ill of him as a teacher and gentleman whi[le], so far as he has been connected with ours, the most perfect good feeling has existed and mutual kindness been shown. 

Tuesday April 30, 1833. It is with deep feelings of anxiety I look by the eye of anticipation on scenes of future trial which yet await [my] inexperienced steps. I fear to act for myself on the worlds great arena lest thro' the incapacity of youth I may make some glaring fault or commit some condemning sin. Youth, boyhood is the sweetest days of a man's life and in spite of his gilded hopes and bright hours of expected good, which are nothing but the illusions of fancy, age will ever bring him to his right reason where the regret[s] of past pleasures are useless. 
Wednesday May 1, 1833. The weather is such as we expect for May, possessing such an enlivening power as gives vigour both to the mind and body. Oh how pleasant to walk abroad in the morning when little birds are filling the groves with their merry songs, which rise like grateful incense from the altar of nature and are born on cool breezes towards heaven, the holy habitation of the Maker. Every nerve of the body is strengthened, every fibre of his soul expanded and he breathes freer and happ[i]er than when the scorching sun.beams [fall?] heavily upon our heads a_nd playful saplings hide themselves within the remotest groves lest he should scorch their tender wings. I arise at 4 o'clock to begin my labours for the day, which are very difficult on the whole, especially Logick and Greek. Geometry, like all mathematics, cannot be confined to a certain extent of time, sometimes requiring. more, sometimes less study. I count my degree of attainment by the amount learned or think not that my study hours are closed till my lesson is learned. 
Thursday May 2, 1833. I have been reading Cox and Carson on Baptism, a London work which has been very lately published in this country under pretty flattering prospects of a wide circulation. I have never read a work of so much merit, candour and profound research upon this subject. In fact, it is unanswerable in my opinion, and impregnable against any weapons which can be brought. Mr. Carson has not only manifested a depth of investigation about the subject which is worthy of the most eminent theologian and scholar, has not only gained much celebrity as an author and disputant, but has rendered such service to our cause as it truly needs in the present state of things when books of error and superstition are spreading their baneful influence among the people, especially those who are too ignorant to think for themselves. 
Friday May 3, 1833. Owing to a severe illness, Pollard will not return this term. I am not all surprised to learn this disagreeable news from 

him for he is characterised as a very careless fellow about his health, which has ever been very feeble and doubly so since he has applied himself with so much imprudence in College. His talents are of the higher order, rather inclining to the poetic, but good for any study. His manner, re,served and quite distant except towards 2 or 3 friends, even towards whom he sometimes shows the greatest coldness. He is very eccentric and tenacious of his own opinions and disputations even tho' it be about a small matter and he manifestly on the wrong side. There is no doing anything with him when reasoning rules the hour, for he never will be convinced or at least yield the arguments he advances, which move mountains of doubts. In fact he is an anomaly of human nature, will never do what you tell him but the opposite, will act as he will on every subject and 
***** . . 1
ret1rement main y. 
Saturday May 4, 1833. We can not complain of hard lessons as yet unless very lazy in Greek. Dr. Proudfit gives 25 lines. In Geometry Capt. Jackson, 2 pages; and in Logick from 4 to 5 pages. I know that teachers often drive classes too fast which so wearies their minds that disgust necessarily follows, together with neglect, and so many a young man who came with the intention of studying becomes discouraged and is never a decent scholar afterward. I have known many an instance of this and very lately too. 
Sunday May 5, 1833. Yesterday there was a covenant meeting but I did not attend as I anticipated before the time came. No candidate presented himself for baptism, which is very seldom the case for our church; during a year and a half at most, every month and oftener the people have witnessed our assemblings on the bank of the river for the purpose of performing this delightful ordinance so blessed and honoured of the Lord. 
God calls us by his most inviting and merciful solicitations to remember him, serve his cause and obey his commands; for a whole year not one of our church has died but all according to their con.stitution have enjoyed a comfortable measure of health. 
Monday May 6, 1833. My chum very imprudently came from Albany last Saturday night about 12 on the outside of the car and by this measure took a very violent cold and cough which will cause him some trouble perhaps. 
It is difficult for one to expose himself in a more dangerous time than when the cold, damp dews of night are falling around, as something very uncongenial with our constitution which every one is 
193 
aware of cannot sustain such sudden changes from heat to cold and dry toádamp without deleterious effects unless much precaution is taken. Different persons too require more care than others according as they are more feeble and have been broken down by former sicknesses, nor does the swallowing of medicine in large and frequent doses conduce to ones healthiness, for I have known women who on account of some imaginary illness have taken medicine till their stomachs were nothing but an apothecary shop with no better success than the ruin of their constitution. 
Tuesday May 7, 1833. I never have been more highly pleased with any Greek than the Od[ysse]y, which constitutes one of our dayly rescitations. It is very easy to be read and understood but to a beginner the different dialect presents numerous difficulties in finding the si[gn]afications of the words and the disposition of these in the government of each other. However, a little care and practice makes all this familiar so then we have nothing to do but read and admire. It is acknowledged by all that this poem is wanting that spirit which characterizes the other work of Homer who was tho't to have composed this in his old age when the sun of his bright genius had passed the meridian of his splendour, at which time he produced the Iliad. Nevertheless he who reads will find all [the] beaut[ies] which are peculiar to him exhibited in his Odessy, altho' the corrus.cations of his surprising intellect are seldom seen in such lofty flights and captivating strains. 
Wednesday May 8, 1833. My chum Strong has gone home sick of a cold which he took coming up. I am sorry to part with him altho' it is evidently the part of prudence in him not to stay any longer as he now is. No human eye can penetrate the future even to the extent of a few days. All is alike dark and portentous, bearing its unknown, untold of, load of events upon us which sometimes joy our hearts and again greive. If I could but have known the future my tho'ts often dictate, this would not have been thus or that very different, but God only is Lord of the future. 
Thursday May 9, 1833. There is a change which brings with it much that is goading to the feelings and painful to the heart --that of a rich man and one who was in comfortable circumstances to poverty and comparative privation, with not a house to shelter his forlorn family or a penny to buy them bread. Oh if man ever knows the depth of adversity it is in such a situation when the companions of orosperity pass him by unheeded, his friends forsake and his enemies deride him. 
291 
Heaven grant this may never be my sad lot. Yet I do know in some faint degree the reality of this picture in the misfortunes which have so involved Father, but brighter hopes alone sustain me that yield not entirely to my wounded feelings; for my own self I care not a fig. Could my father, mother and sister be placed in circumstances beyond the reach of poverty and want, I would never have a dispairing tho't about myself. 
Friday May 10, 1833. 1 shall hereafter take a few of the leading ideas which Mr. Carson advances on the Abrahamic Covenant, respecting its connection with Infant Baptism. 1st. Observation. First, he says, I agree with those who think this cov[enant] has a spirit and a letter. There are 3 which were given to Abraham. 
1st. A numerous posterity, fulfilled in letter in the nation of Israel and fulfilled in spirit by the divine constitution which makes all believers the children of Abraham. 
2d. God promised to be a God to himself and his seed which was fulfilled in letter by his protection of Israel, delivering them from bondage, his taking them into covenant, and all his subsequent dealings with them till cast off. This promise was fulfilled in spirit by God's being a God to all believers and to them alone (Rom. N 11,12) in a higher sense than he was to Israel (Jer. XXXI 33). The 3d promise was of the land of Canaan, fulfilled in letter to Israel and in the spirit fulfilled to Israel in the possession of the heavenly inherit[ eance. 
Our opponents contend that the Abrahamic Cov[enant] is the New Cov. and that infants are saved by this Cov. but this is a grand mistake of theologians. Infants are saved by the same price of redemption as adults, yet not by faith, works or truth believed. By what means infant salvation is performed we know not, only the author of the New Cov. on its foundation is their saviour. The necessity of faith and the necessity of at[t]onement are not the same. 
Saturday Mayf 1, 1833. 
2d. Observation. The infants even of Abraham himself when they died in infancy were not saved by Abraham's cov. Abraham was not the spiritual father of his own infant seed. He is never called the head of the redeemed but only the father of all who believe whenever or wherever they exist. Now infants have no faith or belief and so cannot be children of Abraham in a spiritual sense even tho' his own natural seed. We are called upon to show when the covenant betwixt A. and his infant seed and betwixt believers and their infants was cut off. I answer it never existed. But allowing there was such a connexion between A. and his infant seed, it does not follow that the same exists between believers and theirs, and if this is not self-evident the burden of the proof falls upon our adversary. Cer.tainly it does not devolve upon us to prove that such a relation does not exist. This proof is sometimes rested upon Gal[l]atians III. But that blessing is not such as exists between believers and their infants, but the blessing of having faith counted for righteousness or of being justified as Abraham was justified. In the 9th and 7th verses we see what this was. 

Sunday May 12,1833. 
3d. Observation. The covenant of Abraham is not made with all believers. Look at this covenant recorded in Gen. XII I. lt is not absurd to suppose that all believers have a right to these promises either singly or collectively. Every believer indeed is to be blessed according to that covenant but it is by having his faith, like Abraham's, counted for righteousness not by becoming like Abraham the father of any of the faithful. --Look at Gen. XV 5. This can neither wholly apply to believers in spirit nor in letter. The most, the full sense of the word inasmuch as all of Abraham's spiritual seed are blessed with him by having their faith counted for righteousness to the end of the world. It is neither said here nor elsewhere that Abraham's cov. is given to believers but it is as peculiar to himself as the cov. of Phineas and David. 
Monday May 13 , 1833. 
Fourth Observation. The Abrahamic Cov. is not the new or Gospel. Some suppose that Gal. III establishes this, but this does not make Abraham's cov. the gospel no more than the preacher of the Gospel is the Gospel. So did the law of Sinai preach the Gospel and all the ordinances point to Christ as their end (see Rom X 4) but who will say that the Law is the Gospel? And is there nothing in the A. Cov. but the Gospel? And [are] all its promises those of the Gospel? Many are very essential to the one which are not to the other. 
Tuesday May 14, 1833. 
Fifth Obs. The promises of the Cov. of A. were not given to his seed, spiritual or carnal, exactly as to himself. God promised a numerous seed to Abraham. This he did not to any others of his race. He did [not] secure to any of his race that he should [have] any descendants except to Isaac and Jacob. Even these 2 had nothing cov[enated] fully, for they are not called the fathers of those who believe, and in another sense the whole Jewish nation enjoyed the blessings of this cov. If a man is a believer he is one of A's sons but whether he shall have offspring or no is not promised. This is absurd and overturns the whole doctrine of our opponents. 
Wednesday May 15, 1833. 
6th Observation. The promise "I will be a God to thee and to thy seed" (Gen XXII 7) has a letter and a spirit. It is said that this prom[ise] applies equally to A's seed as to him. The words make no distinction. But we'll see if it has not an inferior sense in the letter. This will be seen in the history of Abraham's descendants. God is every[where] called a God of the Jewish nation but was He as fully so to those corrupt children who were destroyed for idolatry as to faithful Abraham? Look at Exod XXXII 11, where He calls them his 
people who worshipped How absurd to suppose fully.  idols. this will apply  See Lev XXVI 44 and even to his  Isaiah spiritual  11114. seed  
Thursday  May 16, 1833.  

Seventh Observation. When it is said that the promises apply equally to A's carnal and spiritual seed, we admit that the words make no distinction, but it is the easiest thing in the world to see this distinction in the record of facts found thro't the whole Bible. 
Friday May 17, 1833. 
Eighth Obs[ervation]. Circumcision neither signed nor sealed the blessings of the Cov. of A. to the individuals to whom it was by divine appointment administered. It did not imply that they were heirs of the promises. 
It marked no character, neither had it any regard to personal character. Much there has been said on Rom IV 11, "a seal of righteousness of faith &c." It is said to seal spiritual blessings; so it did, but not to the individuals circumcised that they were interested in these blessings. 
That circumcision was not intended to seal anything personally to those who received it is clear from its being applied to those who have no interest in the cov. to which it was attached. As, for instance, the slaves &c &c. But that circumcision as a seal had personal reference to infants is impossible. 
Our opponents say that it is a seal of spiritual blessings, but those blessings of which it is a seal is [are to?] the righteous of the faith of A. Infants have no faith, therefore circum[cision] is 
7-97 
[im]mit[t]able to them. The spiritual or emblematical meaning of circum[cision], a change of heart by the holy Spirit, cannot refer to infants. 
A stranger could eat the passover by merely having his family circum[cised]. (Ex II. 45 ) It sealed nothing personally then. 
Saturday May 18, 1833. Our opponents will insist that circum[cision] came from ba[ptism] and bring Col. II 11, 12 to prove it. Strange how they can find it here. This circum[cision] is made without hand, it cant be bap[tism] then. This circum[cision] is of Christ, that circum.[cision] of the law, which was a type of the former, which was of Christ and the other of Moses. This shows what came instead of circumcision that circum. of Christ made without hand which puts off the body of the sins of the flesh. 
Circum. and bap. correspond in meaning. They both relate to a renewal of the heart. The Lord's Supper and Passover too have a resemblance, yet one did not come for the other, for Christ came for the latter. 
If bapt. came for circum. it would not have commenced till the other ceased. If the law of circum. is to regulate bap. the posterity have a right to bap. to the remotest generation of all atheists. 
Circum. secured to the circum[cised] person no blessings either spiritual or temporal. It was enforced by the penalty. It was not enjoined on all the Jewish children. It was not enjoined on believers in other nations. It could not then be a spiritual privelege to individuals. 
Sunday May 19, 1833. As the church of Israel was the church of God, [a church] typical of his time and containing in every successive age a remnant of the spiritual seed of Abraham, according to the literature of Grace, the New Testament Church is spoken of in the Old under the figure of Israel, Zion, Jerusalem, Gods Holy mountain &c. This cannot apply lit[t]erally and is explained by the apostles as ref[f]erring to the calling of Gentiles. The restoration of the Jew is spoken as of a reunion into their own olive tree. Then the reality is spoken of under the name of that which was its type but, however our opponents explain this, it will not effect the truth of our positions since, however much the 2 churches agree, they disagree on those 2 important and essential points, Ordinance and Members. 
The above I have gathered from Mr. Carson's work on Baptism. 
Monday May 20, 1833. There is no doctrine of our church into which I have so thoro'ly searched as that of baptism, not because I think it 


?-98 
more important in its consequence or essential to salvation but because I am so situated that a true and confident knowledge of the subject is absolutely necessary. Among the 200 students of Coll. nt more [than] 3 or 4 are Baptists and often in the course of my conversation with different individuals my principles are assailed by invectives or sneered at as tho' groundlessly based upon error, so that if I have no more reasons for my belief than most of them I must bear patiently every vile slander thrown against me. 
Tuesday May 21, 1833. I have met with many a young man in Coll., just on the eve of entering upon his theological studies, who when worsted in argument would use this language, "Well, I confess I have not studied the subject enough to dispute with you. However I am satisfied with my belief. I can see sufficient to convince me you are wrong and I am righ t.11 
Such ought to be ashamed that they have not a reason for their doctrine when asked, men too who of all others should be best qualified to hold an argument. 
By the help of God I believe I am able to withstand any slanders or quibbles which error or superstition can bring to bear upon our uninjured fact, which is founded on no slighter foundation than the Bible. 
I have disputed with a no. at different times but almost invariably they never attack me again nor can be induced to by an argument, however much pressed. I say this without praising myself, for every advantage I gain over my opponents is owing more to the truth of my cause than any superior management and tact of my own. 
Wednesday May 22, 1833. I occasionally drop a remark or 2 upon the Od[y]ssey, which I am now reading, and very possibly I shall say the same thing a second time tho' inadvertently, as I have often done before on other subjects. The correct way would be to allot 2 or 3 leaves in my commonplace book purposely to note down remarks in whenever I take a work into my hands to read; this would prevent repetition and exhibit at one view all that I wished to say about the book. I am so far advanced in the O[dyssey] now that it may be expedient to omit this method but on any future readings I intend to embody my tho'ts together. 
Thursday May 23, 1833. I am delighted with Homer's Odessey, especially his sect[ion] of Ulysses and his raft in the 8th [Book] and his recital of the misfortunes which befel him and his fellows in the country of the Cyclops and elsewhere. Often he enters into very minute detail, for instance descending the Cyclops cave, which occa.sionally is very pleasant to relieve the tedium of a general narrative. The Odessey is such a subject as will not admit that spirit which is thrown into the Iliad; the latter treats mostly of battles and fierce encounters peculiar to warlike affairs, the former relates the wanderings of Ulyses which does not require such action and life as is necessary for a poem of a martial character. 

Friday May 24, 1833. On the whole I can say that the weather this spring has been rather cool for the season of the year. We have had some very heavy, cold rainstorms which cannot fail to have done great damage not only by raising rivers above their usual levels but in rotting the seed in the ground. The Mohawk was seldom ever seen higher at any time and great damage was sustained at Albany. 
Saturday May 25, 1833. I have often remarked before how tedious a day Saturday was to the student because he has nothing to do. but the fault is all his own. If a good book could amuse and interest him, it is at hand; if study would suit turn, what hinders but his uncon.querable desire to rove abroad; if he choose to write a composition, when could he wish a better opportunity? When we find ourselves at liberty to act, seldom are the most valuable objects sought or the noblest pursuits suggested to our inclination. Time looks cheap to us and we waste it with foolish prodigality not because we have nothing to do on such occasions that produces the great degree of weariness and dissatisfaction, but in part because that consciousness of such useless waste of time disquiets our minds and will not let us rest content. 
Sunday May 26, 1833. Elder Peck, the agent of the Baptist State Convention, preached last sabbath. His health is pretty poor and for this reason he could not use his accustomed fervour and spirit. However with one thing I could not but be impressed --his feeling upon the subject which he preached. This is the very essence and soul of impressive speaking and cannot fail to interest. 
A.M. His text was 8v of 26c of Acts of the Apos. "Why should it be a thing incredible to you that God should raise the dead?" The divisions of his subject. First. We will notice wherein this doctrine (Resurection) is true. Many nations had some idea of this without the aid of the bible. The works of nature in raising up the blade from the seed which is sown teaches us this. Our rising from our beds, the dry bones which were raised to life again, Jonah 3 days and nights in the 
300 
whales belly and baptism--all represent this doctrine. But plain pas.
sages of scripture both in the Old and New Testaments speak of this. 
God has power to raise the dead. 
Second. Who is it and what will be raised? It will not be the soul but the body and this very same body. In what condition will it appear? The righteous in the likeness of the Saviours body. The wicked will be raised in the likeness of the old Apostates to the ressurrection of damnation. 
Application 1-It teaches us the greatness and majesty of God. 2-The truth of Divine Revelation. 3-to lead a pure life and the contrary to an impure life. 4-In judgement we shall have our reward. 5 -How to use our bod[ies]. Never to abuse them. 6 -How to use the bodies of others. 7 -And the worth of the body. 8-It comforts us when we lose near and dear friends and cheers us in all the afflictions thro' which we have to pass. 
Monday May 27, 1833. The afternoon sermon of Elder Peck was founded on this text, "And then they preached the Gospel," Acts 14,7. 
I will first invite your attention to the Gospel in its provision, For whom is it provided? Not for angels in heaven but for us wretched sinners. In order that this might be provided, Christ took upon himself the form of a servant and wrought out by his death a fuller salvation. 
Second. The Gospel in its proclamation, Who does Christ make use of to proclaim? Earthen vessels, viz. ministers and Xians. And to whom proclaimed? To people of every nation. Are there any invi.tations in the Gospel to sinners? Yes, he that believeth and is baptised shall be saved but he that' believeth not shall be damned. The reason why is because we are sinners. 
Thirdly. The Gospel in its effects. It is either a sav[io]r of life unto life or of death unto death. It is the power of God, salvation to everyone that believeth. There is a life-giving power in the Gospel -.an enlightening, comforting and uniting effect in the Gospel, both to 
God and His *****cross and to all his people. Conclusion. How has this Gospel effected you, my friends? 
Yesterday Mr. Gillet preached from 40 v of 32d c of Deut. "For I lift my hand to heaven and say I live forever." 
I find it very difficult to get the division of his sermons; some.times he gets off in his imagination far from the subject and passes from one thing to another so often that one hardly knows what is his theme. The images of his fancy are wonderfully exhibited in some of his sermons. It seems as tho' his mind was wholly made up of the same which, however useful they may be sometimes in preaching, 

of purchasing some more delectable good. He is not a niggard, neither the zealous worshipper of mammon which some would make him who will make him to place the extreme felicity of life in the jingling of money and over-reaching his fellow. 
Tuesday November 5, 1833. Indeed those who stigmatize their general character w/ such unworthy motives are much in the fault and, it is to be feared, have derived such mischeivous notions cheifly from the very worst sources, the horse and foot traders. 
Wednesday November 6, 1833. The contemplation of nature in all her wonderful works expands our minds into the highest state of wonder and admiration. What more so than the survey of the heavens, where System upon System roll on in their eternal courses in universal harmony. 
Who knows but what God himself dwell in the centre of this vast universe and that around His more immediate habitation all worlds with their attending satellites revolve as around a common centre? 
Thursday November 7, 1833. A remarkable instance of impiety I once knew in a certain Gentlemen who had been formerly a sea captain residing in Bewick, Maine. 
I with my father happened into a store one evening when we found Captain ________ engaged in conversation about the appearance of the crops, which were that year not very good. Says he to the merchant, "Mr. W., I have done my duty, but God has not done his"!! 

Friday November 8, 1833. Of all my former friends and schoolmates I can scarcely keep trace of a dozen. Dick and David Collins are at Dartmouth, both good friends and true. Mr. Farnum, Hutchinson and Burbank are at Waterville. The former tutor, Bradbrook, and Brown are in Georgetown Coll., Kentucky. Some are learning, some are teaching and others are preaching. A kind [of[ joy mixe[s] with sorrow at the recollection of the days when I toiled and played and laughed with these in our first attempts to mount the Hill of Science. How many little incidents crowd upon the mind, some [agreeable] and some disagreeable! 
,Saturday November 9, 1833. The first tumult of feeling has subsided betwixt the 2 parties and little now is said about either Parthenon or Censor. Whatever has [been] hastily said or done by the belligerent parties, they have now a time to reflect on and retract. I do not say that these little parties and strifes may not be of some use to us if rightly used; they are real life in miniature and whoever will stand by and look on with the eyes of a philosopher can learn as much of man as in real life where politicks are carried on by whole communities and states. I have been astonished at the intrigues and cunning plots which these doughty competitors have resorted to to accomplish their designs: at elections of certain officers, party spirit and electioneering is carried as high as I ever saw on any other occasion. 
Sunday November 10, 1833. In all probability winter will be far advanced before our meeting house will be capable of use. These Dutchmen move like a tortoise, they are half a day in turning round and the rest in smoking; when once [they] get at work, it is all left-handed without either plan or model. 
Our Dominie Gillet has been absent in a visit to his friends 3 or 4 weeks; our whole flock have been scattered during his absence and our sabbath a little diminished, not very materially however. I wish our pastor had a greatertaste for study. Certanly he has uncommon talents but they need cultivation.-.
Monday November 11, 1833. Capt. Jackson, our Prof. in Mathematics, is a little man about 4 ft. 9 in. with a high receding forehead, sharp eyes and a remarkably intelligent phiz. In his intercourse with students he is remarkably familiar and jesting so that many think he lacks that very neccessary qualification of a Prof., dignity. In rescitations, however, I never found one sopho. could [find] aught to accuse him of unless that he is too critical, or has too much jocularity and fun. 

Tuesday November 12, 1833. I have been thinking what a queer little volume it would make if all the popular songs, stories, ditties, nursery melodies and baby-lullabies were embodied as a book, such verses as these for instance; 
"There was a man of our town He was so wondrous wise He jumped into a brier-bush And scratched out both his eyes. But when he saw his eyes were out With all his might and main He jump'd into another bush And scratch'd them in again." 
Wednesday November 13, 1833. 
"Goosy, goosy, gander 
Where shall I wander 
Upstairs and downstairs 
In a Lady's chamber."á 
"There sat a Lady folding up her clothes. 
In came a blackbird and snapped off her nose." I might think of more which would be worthy of the above title and com pose a little book much more amusing and much less injurious than hosts of modern "wishy washy" novels, tales, poems, &c. 
Thursday November 14, 1833. Of all the little fictions which I ever read I know of none more beautiful, instructive and unquestionable than Dr. Johnson's Ras[s]elas. No book was ever written in such enchanting style or awakened the interest of the mind more or sustained this interest better than this little story. I have read it several times but with undiminished curiosity. It breaths no tainted strains of immoral ideas; neither is the moral so hid by the embellishments of the story and the chastened imagi.nation of the writer as too difficult of access. The purpose of the whole tale is evident. 
Friday November 15, 1833. The preparation for the approaching examination is begun. Some groan as the ordeal draws near and others rejoice at the idea of seeing their friends in a few days while all are some what anxious to breath outside college walls with freedom. For my own part I do not feel the same lively interest to have the term close because I have not the same interests. 

Saturday November 16, 1833. 1have been a member of Union Coll. now 6 terms or 2 years, during which time I have never received a single mark for any absence or deficiency. This circumstance however of itself will not do me any service in the world only so far as it gives me habits of punctuality and industry. What I gain here merely from books I do not suppose will ever do me such service as will the mental discipline and fixed habits of correctness. 
This ought to be our aim in coll., not its lessons and ephemeral laurels which will never bloom outside of the halls of Union. Will it ever be said that I was a good scholar? if so what avail unless my future perseverence keep pace with my present? 

Sunday November 17, 1833. If I should search for an evidence of my piety, it cannot be found within the limits of all acts. There is not a duty which I do not in some way neglect nor a sin which I do not know. I am entirely sick and diseased with sin, and covered with wounds which it hath made. Oh it is dreadful to fall away from my first love so much, to forget God and dispise his holy precepts. "And shall I ever live at this poor dying rate?" 
Monday November 18, 1833. The Yankee, continued. With much propriety the Yankees are called the Scotch of America, seeing that the similarity of character betwixt the 2 people is striking [lyl manifest. Indeed I am thinking a more complete counterpart of the Yankee could not be found. They both are honest, industrious, austere in their manner of living and bigoted in their opinions; the former thinks he has the best of all reasons in the world for being so, because his judgement is built upon sober and deliberate reason. 
Tuesday November 19, 1833. Like the Scot he is grave, reserved and confident in his own abilities, true as a friend and steady as an enemy; besides he is brave, cunning and intelligent. "The Scotchman possesses more stability, the Yankee more enterprize. They both alike are an educated people, that is, as a body they are better instructed in the practical branches of a common education than [any?] other community of men and their morality and religion is proverbial." 
Wednesday November 20,1833. The weekly newspapers which are sent to every neighborhood of New England furnish an inexaustible source of satisfaction to the enquiring mind of the curious Yankee, who draws therefrom subjects not only for thought but wise disputation. He devours their contents with the savidity s[ofJ sthe saspiring politician or the heavy capitalist who is anxious to learn the rise or fall of stocks. 
Thursday November 21, 1833. I have often been amused in witnessing the joy w/ which the inhabitants of the little village of Squannamagonnook hail the arrival of the weekly on every Sunday morning, or rather anticipate the post by crowding around the door of the only little store in the place at least an hour before he heaves in sight. The first who usually makes his appearance at the Postofflce is Squire Philip, the political weathercock of the village; next comes a little, testy, red-headed shoemaker whose whole front even to his chin is well cased with a huge hog's skin apron, while upon his subsequent parts may be seen sundry glaring patches of shoemaker's wax, badges of his office. 

Friday November 22, 1833. Succeeding these I observed diverse other personages of lesser note and, last of all, the village parson in his rusty suit of black and powdered wig. Could you [have] seen, as I often have, these worthy wights straining their eyes untill they were dim with seeing to catch a glimpse of the forthcoming News Carrier, you would [havel thought their whole souls were stowed in the fellow's pregnant saddle bags. 
The Yankee, as I said before, has great political knowledge. He descants wisely upon the rights of man and the evils of kingly government and with true philosophic sagacity discusses the merits of a republican form and the liberties of the people. If that old adage is a true one, that knowledge is power, they perhaps have greater political power and less political corruption than any of the Confederated States. 
Saturday November 23, 1833. I had almost forgotten another characteristic of the Yankee which, altho' it is least commendable of all his peculiar qualities, should nevertheless be mentioned This is inquisitiveness. It is enough to say with regard to the present application of this term that I take it in the most unrestricted sense; and if you have everseen a Yankee you can well appreciate my meaning when I say that of himself he is a complete definition of inquisitiveness. 
Lordsday November 24, 1833. I know not that I have before written my peculiar notions concerning preaching. 
If I were a going to preach I would never or seldom take a verse of scripture for my text because I never could perceive any good reason for the use unless it were custom. I may say with truth that 3/ 4 of the ministers never know why they prefix to their sermons a text of scripture, or at least we may judge so by the preaching since they seldom advert thereto after it is named but launch out into the boundless sea of imagination and sail about without chart or compass. Even our best men do very often run at random and forget the import of the theme. 
Monday November 25, 1833. Of late I heard a Rev. Gent. from Albany preach from this text in Job, "When I considered I was afraid." When sinners consider, they are afraid, said he and made this the theme of his discourse. This was all true enough and was no more so by taking that line from Job. His sermon would have wanted nothing without it. What better text should I want in case I were to preach of the obedience which God requires of man than this of Lord Nelson's: "England expects every man to do his duty"? With the same propriety I may set a verse of Milton, Byron &c. which is appropriate to a sermon or a verse of Sisyphus [?]. 
Tuesday November 26, 1833. I would name my subject in form and then 

proceed to the elucidation of it without using all the stiff, starched flummery of modern sermons. I like Christ's, Pauls and Peters, the plain unaffected truth as it proceeds from the heart. If such were the course of the present day, we should not hear the repeated criticism, "Such or such an one did not stick to his text; his sermon was good but he got off his subject." Let a man either tell in plain words or by some text of scripture whichis obviously to the purpose what he is going to talk about or else let the sermon itself unfold the subject. 
Wednesday November 27, 1833. Another objection to modern preaching is this: a stated division of discourse into 1st-lies, 2nd-lies, 3rd-lies,13th-lies --a division which is only the remains of the old scholastic method when it it was neccessary in their lengthy disputes. But in the eloquent appeals to the heart and consciences of men, these antient trammels should be banished. Let a minister at the commencing of his discourse set before his hearers the frame of the sermon and they will presently begin to adjust themselves in the most convenient position and make up their mind for a tremendous bore because they know exactly what ground the minister must go over. 
Thursday November 28,1833. Times without no. I have seen the audience pull out their watches, give a general nestle, twist upon their seats and ever and anon give tremendous yawns at the an[n]ouncement of his skeleton, by one of our old ironsided preachers. I am as much an advocate for division in a discourse as any man, but not for a formal stated division. 
Friday November 29, 1833. A sermon should be one continued application thro'out to the minds of men. The method of applying the subject at the close of the discourse by a formal declaration and numerous heads is a bad one. 
But above all the habit of reading sermons is the most to be avoided: it is freezing to the affections, a fetter to the feelings of the minister, and utterly defeats all attempts at eloquence. 
I am fully persuaded that one half the good which preachers might do is curtailed by this miserable habit. If I could not preach without reading my sermons, I would not at all. 
True, every man cannot express his ideas so correctly as he could by previous thought and commit[t]al of the same to paper, yet habit will avail much toward making his language correct and fluent. I would have a man study his subject, not words, and feel the object for which he preaches. 
Saturday November 30, 1833. This week has closed the grand farce of another college examination in no way dissimilar or more worthy of note 

than its worthy predecessors. I say grand farce because it is nothing else. Here we have from 25 to 30 rescitations succeeding each other and all to be shoved off in 3 days, making on an average of from 8 to 10 each day. In every division we no. from 15 to 70 students so that we cannot have more than 4 or 5 minutes apeice at the several rescitations. 
It is nevertheless well enough both a scarecrow to the lazy student and a matter of confidence to the public. 
Lordsday December 1, 1833. Duty finds but a small place in my heart. I fear that I have not any claim to be thought a Christian except mere form and proffession which without charity is good for nothing, nay worse. Oh what a dreadful state to [be] in when religion, once active in our hearts, becomes dormant and the approach of this Holy Day cannot be hailed as a day of rest but of suspension to all our projects. 
So it is, however strange, that man forgets that dear Bro. and kind Father who never forgets him either by Their continued care or multiplied blessings. Oh the height of ingratitude! 
Monday December 2,1833. I intend to spend much of my time during this intercession of study in solving Algebraic problems of which I have a whole book full called Hirsch's Collection. Hitherto my study has been upon the theory, which I have often been told is good for nothing without practice. The inclemencies of a winter month, together with all the dreary aspects of nature abroad, will doubless have little in them to invite me out of the warm temperature and pleasurable conversation of my books. 
Tuesday December 3, 1833. Of my three studies last term, Blair's on Rhetoric was one, which however much may be said in its praise I must say is on the whole not exactly [the] thing which we want. No substitute can now be made since our language is remarkably barren of good text.books, not only upon Rhetorical and Logical subjects. I admire Blair's first lectures, which are replete with new and well arranged facts, but as he pursues his subject I fancy that he flags and makes repetitions or, in other words, grows muddy. 
Possibly the nature of the subject led him to a sameness, yet every part ought to be kept so distinct as that they should not be confounded by a similarity of rules and observations, which thing he often does. 
Wednesday December 4, 1833. I know of few moral qualities aside from religion which claim a place in making up the character [of] a young [man] anterior to decision. This trait of itself is sufficient to stamp the air of manhood upon his moral features and entitle him to a consideration far in the advance of common mortals. It is an attribute which bears the 
409 
Divine impress. All nature attested the mighty decision by a universe in convulsion when her King clothed in flesh fulfilled the decision of eternity. 
'l'he undecided man is like a boat driven without a rudder or a weathercock which obeys the impulse of the whirling gust. Decision without knowledge, too, is but a good qualitv perverted to a bad end; judgement should attend the counsels of all its possessors and go before all his decisions. 
Thursday December 5, 1833. The moral and physical education of our females of the present day is but a miserable patchwork of inconsistencies. 

From theácradle to the grave (which is but a step) they are reared and treated as mere toys whose object of existence is to please: they are fed upon delicacies and laid upon soft beds; their hands are busied with needlework or embro[i]dery instead of plying the distaff or loom; and for the music of the cooking utensils and the thrifty hum of culinary preparation, the senseless flumadid[d]le of the piano and twang of the harp or guitar is substituted. 
Daughters of old feared not to supply their own neccessities and cloth their persons with the fruits of their own industry, to expose their healthful countenances to be kissed by the rays of the sun. Health danced upon the cheek, content dwelt in the eye. They lived to be useful and make others so. 
Friday December 6,1833. Modern degeneracy exhibits no such pictures of health and contentment. Their effeminate daughters like to be belles, to be fashionable. Growing up tender plants by the unnatural influence of hot-beds, their hands must be well covered in gloves and their cheeks in rouge to supply what nature fails to contribute as blooming freshness. When they go abroad, it must be in a coach tightly closed, or if they walk the sun must not toutch their pretty faces. As tho' nature were deficient in these latter days, the modern belle has [it] that the diameter of her waist is too large by a span. This, too, art enables her to remedy by a needful loss of life and comfort. 
Saturday December 7,1833. Nay time and space will not permit me to enlarge upon this lamentable subject. Sufficient is it to know that our females are pale, sickly and shortlived, owing without doubt to wrong physical education. 
With respect to moral nurture they learn nothing that they should and everything that they should not. The ornamental and showy branches of education are liberal[l]y patronised but the solid and lasting are last to be studied. 

Music and dancing, painting and daubing are the acme of the young lady's desire, which never rises so high as theneccessary cultivation of the mind and the adornment of the internal as well as the external person The truth is, inseeking to dazzle by exterior accomplishments they for.get that they were not made always to be looked upon but to be heard. 
Sunday December 8, 1833. Should I attempt to give a relation of my feelings for a week gone and express the degree of approximation towards the perfection of which people of God are all capable, it would be but a sad history of an unfeeling Christian. 
Little does the young convert think,, when feasting in the delights of his first love and drinking in the pleasures of his Saviour's creating, how great a bussiness awaits him who proves unfaithful to the Lord. Blessed are they who, coming forth out of great tribulation and the snares of the world, Satan, and their own wicked heart, shall lean upon Jesus as their saviour and never forget the hole of the pit from whence they were taken and the rock from whence they were hewn. 
Monday December 9, 1833. The moral and intellectual character of Union College, which heretofore has stood very low in the eyes of [the] community, is evidently under a steady advance of improvement thro' the unwearied exertions of its faculty and trustees. As I said before, we have done what I never knew of any college, viz. by unanimous consent to discountenance the use of ardent spirits. 
Our morals as a whole are decidedly good and improving. The number of religious students have been gradually increasing for these some years untill we can now count about 80 who are pious. The societies for charitable purposes are active and efficient and I believe the influence of those amongst us who love not the Lord is not so decidedly thrown into opposition to religion as that of many of our predecessors. 

Tuesday December 10,1833. I find that skating is no mean amusement as well as exercise after a week's hard study and inaction. It is, however, too violent if one enters into it with much vigour provided he is not well accustomed to such active exertion. Sawing wood, I believe, is better calculated to give to all parts of the body a proper degree [ of] vigour than any other exercise; adding to this the usefulness of the labor, I on the [whole] prefer it to any other. 
Wednesday Decemberll, 1833. By the tremendous veto of Dr. Nott, announced more than a year ago, the operations and existence of the various secret clubs, it was fondly anticipated, would forever cease; in fact, everything seemed to favour this anticipation. They were sorely opposed not only by a majority of the faculty but students whose regular organized movements presented a formidable barrier to the future prospects of our fraternal associations. In spite of these opponents, however, they have flourished with redoubled vigour and secrecy untill, despairing of ever accomplishing the desired object, Dr. Nott has at last removed the veto and gave full sanction to their future opperations. 
Thursday December 12, 1833. It is an increasing source of perplexity to me to find out what my future course of life should be. I believe that, with all deference to the will of God, 1would wish to do what in providence my talents and influence most befit me to pursue. I cannot make up my mind that I ought to preach or study law or medicine; the proffession of a public teacher hardly accords with my views of an active life, which has ever been more in accordance to my wishes and feelings. Mechanics and engineering are employments which now most occupy my thoughts. 
Friday December 13, 1833. I succeed very well in my Algebra thus far, finding but little difficulty in solving any problems which have come 
within my course. No branch of study is so capable of forming a vigorous, well-discerning mind as that of the Mathematics, altho' seldom do we find a mind which is-able to cope with them even in their most elementary forms. I believe that it requires a genius of a mechanical turn to love them and, notwithstanding all that Goldsmith says about their being capable to be pursued by the most ordinary minds, it is undoubtedly the fact that fewer men are born mathematicians, or at least continue them with much success, than most other branches of science. 
SSaturday December 14, 1833. I say this from actual observation. Now in college I know of not more than half a dozen decent mathematicians, men who study these from choice and love of the science. It is true that this does not argue conclusively for my position, yet I believe it adds weight to it since, however ordinary their minds may be which compose the College, we find but a precious few who pursue a course in which all (as Goldsmith says) can participate, these few also being men of no ordinary calibre. 

Sunday December 15, 1833. It is not in the public worship of God or the exercise of more manifest duties of the Christian nor by the social prayer and conference meetings that he most prevails with God and obtains cheifly those blessings upon his own soul which communion with his maker affords, but in the secret prayer where no eye sees him or witnesses the out-pourings of his fervent soul, only the omnipercipient eye of Jehovah who, when He heareth in secret, openly rewards his pious votaries. 
Monday December 16,1833. No author which I have read lately affords me [more] pleasure than the perusal of Euler's Letters to a German Princess upon various scientific and philosophical subjects. Independent of the correctness of his theories and the simplicity of his ideas, one cannot fail to be enamoured with the clearness of his elucidations and the neatnessaltho' a translation from the original. 
Whenever I read any of Euler's writings I am forcibly struck with the remark of the great Lagrange to one who enquired what author should be studied in elementary mathematics, "Study Euler." It would be well if all scientific men would take him as their model for neatness and perspicuity. 
Tuesday December 17,1833. Among all the other indolent habits contracted by students during their collegiate course, one is cheifly detrimental to his future prospects of being a man, viz. a loose way of thinking and reading. College habits are generally such as are clung to thro' life and, however hurtful they may be, their possessors seldom gain moral courage by experience sufficient to stop their future continuance. 
I speak with truth in saying that the generality of our young men thro' all their scholastic career avoid to their utmost every book which requires more ... 
Wednesday December 18, 1833 .... than an ordinary degree of mental application and disturbs the delicious sloth of their dormant imaginations. Such men are mainly known by the lavish stock of novels, tales, romances and trash which fill their tables, affording them rather a pleasurable gusto to a corrupted taste than a feast to the healthy intellect. I was lead to these observations by remarking the character of the books and periodicals with which our Society from time to time stows the shelves of the Library which, altho' it contains an immense quantity of trash, has of late received large accessions of valuable works. Indeed many (yet I hope not a majority) of the society would hastily receive every scrawl which proceeds from the teeming press if not restrained by the good sense of the better part, who of late have exercised more discrimination and sound judgement, with few exceptions, in the choice of books than I have seen before since I came into the Society. 


Thursday December 19, 1833. However, to the shame of the Soc[iety] be it said we at present among all our periodicals, which is no mean collection, have no work of a scientific character; hitherto untill lately we have received the Library of Useful Knowledge (a valuable practical work) and Silliman's Journal which, notwithstanding it is the only magazine in our country that bears exclusively the character of a scientific work, barely receives patronage sufficient to continue its publication. 
Friday December 20, 1833. Far be it from me to say that it is disreputable to our Society to place amongst our collection a moderate number of fictitious works, if choicely selected, or to peruse the reviews and lighter literature of the day in the hours of relaxation from the more severe and laborious studies of collegiate duties. Yet I do aver it is a matter of bad taste in us to discard altogether works of a more sober character. .
Saturday December 21, 1833. Were I to make selection of books for a good Library which should be worth as much years hence (laying aside the wear and t[ear] as now, they should be the standard works: the efforts of great minds and giant intellects, the records of the progressive march of the sciences and arts in the English language besides the choisest of all languages. 
Under the head of novels, periodicals and biography too much care could not be used, seeing that our world is deluged with such of which the majority must be mere trash and unfit a second reading even now, much less 50 years to come. 
Sunday December 22, 1833. The repairs upon our meeting house are now going forward briskly and in a few weeks we hope to worship therein. An addition of 18 ft. in length has been made besides the galleries; with these enlargements nearly double the no. of people may be accomodated. [After] such improvements in our house it will be well if our little church also increase proportionally both in their graces and numbers, and if the Lord shall be pleased to come down into our midst as of old into the temple, filling it with his glory and presen[c]e. All that can hinder such a glorious appearance of his Holy influences will be the unbelief of his own people whose duty is to humble themselves and purify their hearts and call mightily unto Him for his blessing to hallow and sanctify his earthly dwelling. 
Monday December 22, 1833. Literary Societies in Colleges and academies are undoubtedly exellent institutions and do much towards eliciting talent that would otherwise have never been known or felt, provided they are conducted under certain necessary regulations. I have found by experience, since I came into the Philomathean Society, that too many members totally defeat the purposes for which these associations are intended, overloading the sessions with unneccessary business, fomenting fierce party disputes and divisions, curtailing the privileges of individual members, and in fine calling together an assemblage of young men having minds so dissimilar and feelings so dissonant that it would require counsel infinitely more wise than is usual among youths to keep harmony among such incongruous materials. 

Tuesday December 24, 1833. Our Soc., now the largest in Coll., has been increasing during all the time of my membership until it has become so unweildy that full half the time due to the Rhetorical Exercises is spent in transacting ordinary business, or attending to the financial concerns. 
I believe that during the last term we had no more than 2 or at most 3 debates and these of most uninteresting character; we seldom hear a composition and occasionally some very indifferent declamation. 

Wednesday December 25,1833. How can it be otherwise when we count the time which our 2 weekly sessions occupy, viz. from 5 to 6 hours, and yet there is no curtailing our opperations; the Society has grown to such a size that less time could not be equal to our neccessities. It is nearly past endurancefor yong men,after sitting at their tables thro' the week, to remain in the Hall 5 hours on Saturday, the only day out of the 7 they can call their own, and enjoy a neccessary recreation; if compelled to stay they will relish anything but the exercises. Some are reading, some sleeping, and others whispering; all are willing to kill the time the cheapest way possible. 
Thursday December 26, 1833. It would be infinitely more agreeable 
doubtless to those performing the duties to speak to the bare walls which would at least keep their silence. 
If I am not mistaken, these grievances call loudly for a 4th literary society amongst us so that the number belonging to each may be reduced within proper bounds. It is a matter, however, of no small difficulty to organise a regular society and get it a going on firm footing cheifly because a good library is wanting and hall and furniture. 
Friday December 27, 1833. In tracing the good providences of God towards me during the 10 years past of my life, which has been chequered with a thousand little incidents at first apparently trifling but subsequently of vital importance to the future molding of my character, I am constrained to acknowledge the Invisible Hand in all my ways. Every little affliction has prepared room for a more permanent good only to be followed hard by any other signal blessing. 
Saturday December 28, 1833. The temporary bodily infirmity which caused my suspension of College duties for one year has by the will of God eventuated in a remarkable promotion of my worldly and, I hope, spiritual prospects. !now stand at the head of a large class of 80 or 90 young men, all pursuing the like studies with myself. 
This exaltation, altho' no true criterion of future greatness and usefulness above less successful class mates, nevertheless adds much respectability to my name and gratification to my carnal mind, which I pray God may ever be kept humble under all my prosperity. May He have all the glory because it is in Him that I live. 
Sunday December 29, 1833. During my residence in the city I have been a teacher in the factory Sabbath school, which consists of the poor children who labor in the mill all the week, being almost totally destitute of instruction save what they get upon the Sabbath. This circumstance has led me to think of the importance of such a school to such children. In our city the major part of the little ones are those whose parents, even if there were no Sunday school, would instruct them in a Godly manner while those who inhabit the hedges and by-ways, the poor and vicious, would utterly abandon their offspring to the profanation of this holy day and to the evils of a want of wholesome education. These then are the individuals cheifly to be benefitted by a Sabbath School. 

Monday December 30, 1833. Herein I think I perceive a want of due consideration by the benevolent of our city. Each church in truth can boast of a large and well regulated school, supplied with books and pious teachers. Thus far all is well, but looking a little further one may see 100s of ragged, dirty and know-nothing boys and girls parading our back streets ***** up[?], all their noisy gambols upon the day of worship. The well-wishers of souls should consider that the sabbath school was at first instituted expressly for these poor little vagabonds, and with such considerations act accordingly. 

Tuesday December 31, 1833. I took into my head to go to Albany Saturday last, but after all was none the better and but little the wiser for the journey. 
A pretty pleasant ride I had of it, however, altho' a chilley. Found Bob Strong a doing nothing , as I suppose he usually does in vacations, or at most gadding about the street, chatting and visiting the ladies. 
Had a notion of purchasing a cap for my caput but found none that suited my head, much less my fancy. So concluded to wear my old hat. 
we walked and talked and pop[p]ed in here and there until 9 and then parted, he to his bed andl to the coach office. Arrived at home about 12 cold and tired and hungry. Rascally joint(jaunt?] that! 
Wednesday January 1,183[4]. I usually, like the Methodists, make a considerable flourish in my Diary to dismiss the old and welcome the new year. 
This annaversary, however, like the aforesaid denomination I shall make no such parade; a due degree of religious regard for the like occasions is well. Every heart should respond with gratitude to the kind dealings of God and be anxious to obtain accompaniment with us thro' every new year of our lives, which at longest will contain [consist?] but of such fleeting circles.
