 
Thursday January 2, 1834. There [are] some substantial reasons for supposing the next term better fitted for studying than any other in the year. The cheif cause of this is found in the dreariness of nature and the total want of exterior enticements, such as are felt during the pleasanter seasons of spring, summer and autumn. The comfortable fire and cheerful room is a stronger inducement. Besides, cold weather does not invite that sleepiness and languor over a book to which we are liable in warm [weathear]when the sun descends and scorches the parched earth. 
~L/--20 
Friday January 3, 1834. Students when enjoying the presence and 
friendship of their friends are not overanxious to resume the grave and 
arduous duties of a College round. They keep away till the last moment 
before they take the parting draught from friendship's cup. 
At this evening prayers in Chapel we had very few students and I [do] not look for a large number before Monday. Have been busy in setting at rights my cold, dirty room, the furn[i]ature of which lies topsy-turvy just as it was left 5 weeks ago. 
Saturday January 4, 1834. I know of no pleasanter situation than my room, with a stove well replenished and a plentiful supply of fuel at hand. I can sit down and laugh at the howlings of the tempest without and regale my mind upon books or relieve it by the conversations of my fellows. Our wants are all supplied, and we have not a care except to do ourselves good..Favoured as we are, many repine at the irksomeness of their confinement and think themselves infinitely more happy in mingling with toilsome affairs of life and encountering all its ups and downs. Experience, however,. will teach a sad lesson to them. No portion of a man's life may be be spent happier than that of his college course. 
Sunday January 5, 1833. There is one remark which I would not be willing to omit in my every cogitation, viz. that long and general prayers are very improper at prayer meetings. Everyone should pray definitely for some object and pray short. Having made known his wants at the throne of grace, let him sit down and leave room for others. Yet so it is, that many pray all over the world for those sick and those well, those by sea and land, abroad and at home, sinners and Christians, and in fact everybody in one petition. 
Monday January 6, 1834. My studies are Discriptive and Analytic Geometry, Mechanics and French Language, with which I am well satisfied except the last. This I study only for the purpose of translating the mathematics which are in that language. This study will do very well for ladies but is not fit [for] engaging the mind of a man unless for some other purpose than a study. 
Tuesday January 7, 1834. One week at least is lost every term before we can get under way and begin to study with any success. The mind long unstrung is difficult of management and almost incapable of being bent. It is wandering upon some dearer objects than College affords; it loath[e]s the monotonous sound of study; it dances among, in imagination, more agreeable scenes and for a while cannot be abstracted. 

Wednesciay January 8, 1834. It is a tremendous bore sometimes to be obliged to write in this everyday book as is evident from much of the matter which it contains. If, however, I am to keep a Diary at all it shall be written in daily as its name signifies, else I will let it drop entirely. I know that a little remissness in my duty to this will lead to a greater negligence untill I shall entirely loose the whole. 
Thursday January 9, 1834. As yet, we have not experienced any very great severity of weather or been blockaded with the driving snow. The winter has been thus far better calculated for business than any former one which [I have] passed thro' during my stay in N. York. The height of our situation, however, lies us open to greater inclemencies than is usually felt in the city, it being much lower and more sheltered from the wind. I long for the spring to unfold the beauties of nature and restore joy and elasticity to the animated world. 
Friday January 10, 1834. The force of early habits is not more strongly demonstrated in any class of persons than in students, who generally while at College contract those either of indolence or industry which will cling to their character thro' life. It may be asked how can it be otherwise? Can the leopard change his spots, or the Ethiopian his skin? Taking this position, then, as granted, as it well may be, since it is confirmed by all experience, we may safely predict the future prospects of every young man who wanders within the precincts of collegiate authority. 

Saturday January 11, 1834. Those who come to these classic halls with bad habits have an important work to perform in correcting them, and those who come without any fixed purposes an equally important task to mold theirs and steer clear of all the quicksand in which others have foundered. I pray God that my mind may never become weary in perseverance or my character marked with indecision. 
Sunday January 12, 1834. However little I might feel disposed to judge other churches or ministers in their administration of holy things, I have been particularly impelled áto think unfavorably of the Episcopal church and Rector in this city. "Twelve years," says he, "I have faithfully labored with this people and my church and congregation has continually decreased"! Poor encouragement indeed for his faithful ministrations. 
The fact is I can find but little religion either among the Dominie or people. A stiff, cold and formal worship has frozen the feelings of his hearers and never till zeal and love has shaken off the shackles of superstition will true religion prosper. 
Monday January 13, 1834. How a man can labor 12 years and never see the works of God prosper in his hands without some especial efforts to change in the face of things is wonderful to me. Should it ever be my lot to preach the everlasting Gospel, my heart could never rest till the manifestation of Gods salvation was made among my congregation. 
Tuesday January 14, 1834. This is far from being the first time that I have expressed myself disgusted with the little petty affairs of a college life, yea not only so but have wished myself banished from the temple of science to avoid its disagreeable accompaniments. There are within Union College not less that 1 O or 12 regular organized societies of young men, besides those for benevolent purposes, which societies are usually at variance with each other, bickering and contending for the mastery. It creates a world of hard feelings and disagreements and is after all to no ostensible purpose, only to gratify party spirit and ambition. An exellent school, however, this may l:Je¥¥. 
Wednesday January 15, 1834 .... to those who can stand aloof and overlook the foments of this world in miniature without mingling in its many 
423 
opperations, to those who can philosophize upon the movements of human 
passions, tracing their causes and effects with a sagacious eye. 
Thursday, January 16, 1834. It is a matter of no great difficulty for me to write in my Diary and give myself considerable satisfaction in so doing when I can make choice of subjects. I should think my time and materials quite lost were I merely to scribble the weather and ordinary occurances of each passing day; indeed a disgusting monotony would pervade my book such as could afford me no permanent pleasure in a future retrospection. I intend to make this cheifly a sentimental journal and record ideas and feelings rather than everyday events. 
Friday January 17,1834. I know not but this subject of which I now speak of has been already treated of in this Diary before; however that may be, I repeat it again. I am somewhat of a utilitarian in my views. Let all the novels, romances and working fiction whether in prose or poetry be 
be placed in the one scale and some little obscure tract which has been instrumental in saving a soul in the other, how soon would the trash fly up. Let all the works of painting and sculpture be compared with the simple articles of agriculture and which would benefit most the human family? Still these things of men, [a] matter of taste, are extolled to the skies and utility [is] wholy thrown out of the consideration. 
Saturday January 18, 1834. To the student Saturday and Sunday is welcomed with peculiar delight as bringing a relief to the weariness of study and a sweet relaxation. His books are closed, his mind unstrung, feeling bursts forth and wanders abroad; indeed the whole soul experiences deliverance. Far from underrating the pleasures of mental labor I would say with Solomon, "Much study is a weariness of the flesh." 
Sunday January 19, 1834. This day, far from being one of carnal rest as many make it, should be the busiest of the 7. God requires all its labors, however, for his service and worship. Shuting out our own concerns, we should commune-with Him by prayer, we should make long journeys in the Divine life towards holiness and strive to bring others to a knowledge of the truth. 
Monday January 20, 1834. Of the whole 250 young men who compose this College, the number is small who by industrious perseverance and good natural talents can even expect reasonably to make a very conspicuous figure in life. 
Tuesday January 21, 1834. They indeed get a smattering of the Greek and 

Latin languages, a dark glimpse of some elements of mathematics, a little general knowledge of literature from novels and periodicals, together with a large share of pride and pedantry which above all things are prejudicial to a man's progress. 
Wednesday January 22, 1834. A great part of College are willing to give [gain?] the honors of a literary education with many of its advantages, many are willing [to] lose 4 years of their life to obtain a diploma and the vain name of having passed thro' College. It is well for them that the public have a better opinion of these ignorant dolts [than] they justly deserve, or meagre would be their prospects of future life. Such men usually sink 
á down in some little country village and live all their lives upon the vain tit[t]le of being a liberally educated man without having once perhaps during that time performed anything worthy of himself. 
Thursday January 23, 1834. All the girls in the place are delighted to be honored by his presence and flattered by his attentions. Why? Because he has been a college man who now has neither money in his pocket nor brains in his head, while they will despise [and] she will disdain the favours of the industrious, thriving and wealthy mechanic. 
Friday January 24, 1834. I would not give a fig for all the honors which Univers[i]aties can heap upon a man without the accompanying attainments. They will be only a disagreeable load to a man and a disgrace when he has not talents to support their dignity. 
Saturday January 25, 1834. I have seen too much of the emptiness of the honours not to dispise them. He who strives for and obtains them gains only a bub[b]le. If any one is great and exellent, he need not fear but what his own talents may be sufficient honour to him; no need seek from exterior, the true source lies within him. 
Sunday January 26, 1834. In no age of the world and church has God shown such indubitable evidence of his goodness and power in the conversion of sinners, and the furtherance of his [kingdom?] as in these latter days. A spirit of enquiry pervades the hearts of men, ministers are catching an apostolic zeal; they preach with a tenfold earnestness and use new measures to bring sinners to repentance. Indeed the rottenness of old ways ... 
Monday January 27, 1834 .... of preaching and managing the affairs of 

religion has begun to explode. Churches now are not willing to live 7, 8, or 10 years under a cold and formal mode of worship without even once experiencing a refreshing from God's presence. They cannot listen to such stiff, old, sermon-reading ministers with the good patience they once could and be content with an occasional visit from the Holy Spirit. So blessed be God for the change! They now pray for ... 
Tuesday January 28, 1834 .... and expect a continual blessing and ingathering of such as shall be saved. The introduction of these "New Measures," as they are now termed but which in fact are only a revival of 
the old Apostolic spirit, has hitherto met with a decided opposition by many churches and pastors and until late only when the conviction of their good effects cannot be resisted has prejudice vanished before the light of reason and the power of God. 
Wednesday January 29, 1834. The expediancy of "Protracted Meetings" and a tenfold zeal and fervor exhibited by those men preach[ing] at such, has been very much doubted by the old iron-sided clergy; nay they have . looked on with wonder at the blessings which have followed these means when they had wanted the most disa[strous] effects to religion. 
Thursday January 30, 1834. The fact is in their care to avoid any thing that might savour of enthusiasm, they have come far short of that middle station which they had desired to take; in avoiding one extreme they have fallen into a worse, inshunning too much zeal they have shaved [saved?] too little. 
Friday January 31, 1834. The dawn of a better day for the Church of Christ is already appearing, old notions are giving place for more liberal ideas of consistency. The "old measure" folk are setting about the work with double diligence and I rejoice in prospects of the glorious conquests yet to be acquired. 
Saturday February 1, 1834. The frequency of our Covenant meetings I consider a signal blessing to our church inasmuch as it brings brethren together and refreshes their feelings with a recital and hearing of theirs and their breth(e]ren's monthly experiences. It unites them, makes them acquainted, inspires good feeling --encourages, establishes, and humbles their minds. 
Sunday February 2, 1834. In reviewing the signal blessings which God has heaped upon our church and people, surely we may say he has not dealt so 
J.f2.b 
by any other. All the churches in the city together have not received so large additions within the last 2 years. Our own little flock, who have been instructed by a feeble young man whom God we hope nevertheless has made strong in the faith. We now number above 200 members who are cheifly the youth of our city and zealous to do God's service. After all we have nothing to boast of, but be all the glory to Him who has thus walked with us when we were but a feeble flock and a handful of precious seed. 
Monday February 3, 1834. The great question of Slavery, that scourge to an important portion of our unfortunate colored population, has of late agitated the minds of men both in England and America. The public opinion has undergone a visible change with respect to this subject and the parliament of England, outstripping us in the benevolent work, have emancipated slaves in their West India colonies. 
Tuesday February 4, 1834. At present the American people are divided into 2 parties, the Colonisationists and Abolitionists of whom the latter, at present the increasing party, contend for the immediate manumission of every unfortunate man and woman who now groan under bondage. 
Wednesday February 5, 1834. The principal objections to the Colonisation Society is that by its opperations and intentions it hinders the progress of freedom to the degraded Africans who, I verily believe, would groan for years under his oppressive task masters if his only hope were in its tardy movements. The progress of Antislavery is at present encouraging. 
Thursday February 6, 1834. Thro' the vile fermentation of party strife and individual gratification we are again tormented with the noise of Junior Orator election. Altho' Dr. Nott has again expressly assured us that we can have no exhibition ... 
Friday February 7, 1834 .... the fact is the office has gone a begging and 2 men the least worthy of any in the Society have by an infamous combination been supported as candidates. The truth is, when merit has no peculiar claims to precidence, he who has most friends is sure to triumph over justice in those little petty elections. 
Saturday February 8, 1834. They may dispise the man but still use him as a tool to accomplish envious and malicious designs; they may acknowledge his demerit yet elevate him because he is a kindred spirit. It makes my heart burn within me when such infamous proceedings fall under my observation. My determination is to have no part nor lot in this matter, rather let my name be despicable to all generations than gain popularity by such means. 

Sunday February 9, 1834. It is well for us poor erring mortals that God is 
more mindful of us than we of Him . Else full soon we should experience 
the effects of His neglect. Oh how soon is the gold become dim and the 
most fine gold changed! If we are ever saved it will be only by the grace 
of God who has kept and preserved us by His powers. 
Monday February 10, 1834. The passions of men are the cheif tormenters 
of his happiness, especially when they are not put into subjection to 
religion. 
Tuesday February 11, 1834. Would that I could ever live in the full enjoyment of Christ and love him as much as I do the world. O how many pangs of guilt and sorrows it would save me. How many bitter hours it would save. How many joys afford. 
Wednesday February 12, 1834. Newton, after having completed his splendid set of discoveries and exhibited to the world an intellect almost more than human, only just plucked one pebble from the boundless shore of infinite knowledge. 
Thursday February 1 3, 1834. Few are our bodily wants and temporal 
needs but great the spiritual neccesities of our souls. Oh God! give me daily supplies of grace. 
Friday February 14, 1834. The righteous man in his afflictions goes to God for comfort, but the wicked flees to those refuges which still more increase burdens. 
Saturday February 15, 1834. When the end of the week comes and I review the sins which I have committed, I am ready to despair of ever coming to God in peace. How can Christ pardon such a guilty sinner? Cl1 when shall I cease to sin! When shall I appear with Christ and be like him! 
Sunday February 16, 1834. The progress of religion in this city has of late been so steady and onward that Satan has been of late mightily apprehensive that his kingdom is coming to naught and for the purpose of counteracting the further spreading of good morals and pure religion has awakened his faithful adherents to more imposing efforts. 
Monday February 17, 1834. A little "insurance office," i.e. Universalist 

Meeting House of very combustable materials, has been erected in which occasionally free pardon is proclaimed to all men. This doctrine, however, is so unpopular with the people that it is well nigh extinct except with a few tapers and fellows of the baser sort who for a subterfuge are willing to enlist under Satan's banners rather than under none. 
Tuesday February 18, 1834. It requires no ordinary degree of learning and 
respectability, aside from wealth and time, in order that one may be a 
successful traveller. One man goes thro' the world with his eyes shut and 
never so much as has the ability or will to profit by what passes around 
[him] whilst another may lay up a store of information both useful to 
himself and amusing to others. 
Wednesday February 19, 1834. A traveller must move slow and stop often at places of note, make frequent enquiries about the various circumstances worthy of investigation respecting different spots, be a strict observer of men and manners and have an eye of discrimination. It will be of no service if he travels in a hurry. He had better stay at home and spend his time and money on other objects. 
Thursday February 20, 1834. I have known men who have journeyed from Maine to Georgia and after all could not tell a thing about their whole rout[e]. They had seen N. York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Charleston &c. but knew not how many inhabitants, what publick building and liberal institutions they contained or anything of the character of society. They heard Daniel Webster speak in Senate but knew not what it was about. In fact they are nothing the wiser for all their toil and expense. 
Friday February 21, 1834. Amongst all the obstacles which now threaten to hinder my future usefulness I count the want of industry and perseverence the greatest. I would not accuse myself unjustly on this score because I think not many young [men] in Coll. have studied with more success and constancy than I, yet they are far from a standard for me. Here I have a considerable present motive to instigate my ambition, and my fears are that when such ends [are] not in view my industry will flag. It is but a poor recommendation ... 
Saturday February 22, 1834 .... to a young man if he will act [only?] when immediate inducements are presented before his aspiring mind and his aspirations have not a higher object, viz. the Glory of God, the good of men and the improvement of his own mind. I hope such may be the motives which actuate my conduct, that I may never consider my time as my own á to be squandered and that decision may mark all my actions. 

Sunday February 23, 1834. If ever the heart of man is subject to the feelings of gratitude and is called upon to acknowledge such feelings, it must be mine. During 21 years this day God has watched over all my ways and dealt with [me] in mercy. Instead of being a worthless vagabond void of future prospects in this or another world, He has given me bright hopes in view of both. 
With deep shame I must acknowledge my ingratitude to the bountiful Giver of all good; whilst He has remembered me, 1have forgotten Him. 
Monday February 24, 1834. In looking upon the mass of community -.farmers, mechanics, merchants and laborers --I have been peculiarly 
á struck with their ignorance on those subjects intimately connected with their own trades, the improvements of the day and those which are still susceptible of being made. In fact, a reading farmer, mechanic &c. is scarcely known. He rarely takes a book in his hand unless it may be on Sunday. His leisure is either spent in useless conversation or, what is worse, at the groceries and taverns where the most unhappy habits are almost inevitably formed and continued. 
Tuesday February 25, 1834. I have of late enquired of our young apprentices and journeymen why they did not read more and feast their mind upon useful subjects. They invariably tell me that after working all day they want a little time to rest. Now this rest is no other than lounging about the city and travelling to and fro, which above all labor is the most tiresome, or they must be a gadding 7 evenings of the week after the girls, a sure indication of weakness, and be storing their minds with everything but lasting knowledge. 
Wednesday February 26, 1834. Were I a mechanic it should be my greatest delight to refresh my mind and body after a severe days labor with an evening's entertainment at my books. My library should be small but choice. I would particularly endeavour to inform myself about the calling in which I-was engaged, learn all recent improvements and strive to make others. In fine, I would be a literary man as far as my time and talents would permit. Infinitely more enjoyment would our working men possess should they pursue this course and become reading men. 
Thursday February 27, 1834. Of all men the Christian is the most miserable who does not live in the exercise of religious duties. He neither enjoys earth nor religion. He is tossed to and fro like the troubled ocean. 
Friday February 28,1834. I would here take occasion to notice the general 
430 
character of our winter which has now about closed. I may say that it has 
been uncommonly mild; we have had some cold days yet the body of snow which has fallen at any one time has been very small. 
Saturday March 1, 1834. Week after week passes with surprising rapidity; hardly does one commence before it is closed and then time pushes us on to the end of life and the brink of eternity. Our covenant meeting, which was held this day, has been one of uncommon interest. The time was spent in hearing the experiences of those who wish to join the church. 
Sunday March 2, 1834. I have never witnessed such glorious seasons in our church as have transpired during the last 2 weeks, in which time we have held a series of protracted meetings. The Lord poured out his spirit and blessed our prayers and exertions and now scores are rejoicing in the hope of pardoned sins. 
This day 10 were baptised among whom was Mr. Willis, member of the senior class and till now of the Congregational Church in Danvers, Mass. He hascome to this change of sentiments by patioen investigation after . truthand this evening he published to a house crowded with his fellow students and citizens the reasons of his choice. 
Monday March 3, 1834. By the help of the Lord our little church is looking up. Additions are numerous and such as we trust shall be saved. They [are] cheifly young people who are able and willing to bear the burden in their youth. 
The Lord's dealings with us is marvellous, it is too much for me to comprehend. His work here has been quick and powerful. 
Tuesday March 4, 1834. Many have been born in a day. Our house has been crowded with attentive hearers and the cry is "What shall we do?" Oh how ought we to pray and labor for a continuation of such signal blessings. The church must slack not their hand or the work will cease. 
Wednesday March 5, 1834. It is no time for a church to stop and rejoice when the Lord has saved a few souls but to look after those who are perishing for the lack of repentance. 
Oh I pray that they may not be our sin. 
Thursday March 6, 1834. For these weeks past I have felt my evidence renewed that I was a true child of God. Such joy, such agonizing prayers, such delight in obeying Gods commands I have not experienced this many a day before. 
431 
Friday March 7, 1834. If any people ever had reason to be gratified, we abundantly have when we consider that the Lord has always blessed us whenever we have ever made our extra exertions to convert sinners and awaken the church; yea while yet we were asking, he has blessed us. Our preaching has been of the .. . 
Saturday March 8, 1834 .... most ordinary character yet God made it powerful. Our Presbyterian brethren have had a protracted meeting at which some of the most powerful sermons were preached which have ever been heard in this city yet that people and church are dead as stones under the whole. The church must first be ready or no good effect will follow. 
Sunday March 9,1834. Mr. Gillet preaches with a greater degree of pointedness and pungency than is usual for him. His style is florid in the extreme, smoth and agreeable, but occasionally very forcible, especially when he gets into the spirit of preaching. I do abominate any compromise between a preacher and the sinner's conscience, which should be dealt with according to the whole counsel of God. Wo unto those who daub with untempered mortar! God will deal severely with such. 
Monday March 10,1834. Mr. Willis' sermon and baptism has occasioned a wonderful stir among the Paedosprinklers, who chafe and rage at no usual rate about him. During the 2 1/2 years in which he has been in College he has universally borne a high character for piety and usefulness, especially among the colored population with whom he has labored unwearyingly both as teacher, preacher and pastor. As superintendant of the Dutch Reformed Sabbath School, which is the largest in the city, he acquitted himself w / honour and acceptance. Therefore, holding such a station and being so well known in the city, his change of sentiments has caused no small talk. Every other motive is ... 
Tuesday March 1-1, 1834 ... .imputed to him but the sincere desire to come to the truth. His sermon, it is said, is wholly uncalled for and out of place, it will stop the revival and interupt the good feeling betwixt the churches. Such are the vain and foolish reasons for depr[e]cating a movement that lays the axe at the root of their papal relics. 
Wednesday March 12, 1834. The truth is that the Dutch and Presbyterian churches look with an jealous eye upon the success of ours and this envy vents itself in little backbitings and whisperings. Our success reproves their indolence and lukewarmness, which has been a woeful damper upon 
4-32._ 
the forward march of Zion in this city. By the help of the Lord we mean to push our conquests farther untill He has made us a great people to His praise and honour. 
Thursday March 13, 1834. The success of the Baptist cause in Saratoga County is unparraleled; during the past winter above 500 have joined our churches; a steady manifestation of Divine favour has been felt and still is fe_lt in all the churches. Oh the Lord is mighty and He is doing wonders among the people. 
Friday March 14, 1834. The 2 weeks past I have constantly attended the evening meetings which have been uncommonly interesting and crowded by attentive hearers, yet in so doing have in great measure neglected one of my studies. The loss of time I conceive not to be so great as the loss of interest and taste for my book, which when once put in competition with "pure and undefiled religion" is not worth a thought. It is far from being the duty or privelege of the Christian ever to be so immersed in my (any?] avocation as to neglect the duties of religion, yet I do believe that there are times when one may spend too much of his time and attention upon the means appointed for worship and praise of God, to the neglect of his necessary secular concerns. 
Saturday March 15, 1834. We are very lazily reviewing our studies for examination which as it approaches brings many a sleeping doehead to his senses in prospect of passing but a dishonorable inspection. Just as they ought to be closing their books and preparing for a happy vacation, as tho' it did not lay beyond a collegiate ordeal which should never be a terror only to lazy students, they begin to shiver and fret and study, nay many for the sake of steering clear from any excuse to get away before examinations. 
Sunday March 16, 1834. Among the many things for which the Christian should pray I find this great object that the word preached may be mixed with both in those who hear and speak, that the Holy spirit would follow every sermon to the conversion of sinners and the edification of saints. These subjects have continually... á 
Monday March 17,1834 .... abode with me in my mind and constrained me to remember them before God in my prayers; the welfare of my Sabbath school class too has lain near my heart so that I hope it has enabled me to deal more faithfully with them. 
Tuesday March 18, 1834. The great talk now in the political world is the 

Removal of the Deposits, that is the removal of the United States' money from the vaults of the United States Bank by Genl. Jackson without advice of Congress. He has long waged a deadly war upon this institution and under various pretences endeavored to oppress it. 
Wednesday March 19, 1834. But of all others this step has been the most fatal both to himself and the country, which is arising in its might despite of his former popularity and to show their decided disaprobation of this high-handed measure. The local banks in all parts refuse to discount. Public confidence is broken, failures are innumerable among the greatest dealers, laborers are out of employ and the general cry is Hard Times. 
Thursday March 20, 1834. Such disastrous times for money perhaps have never been felt, and still amidst all the 1000 of memorials which are presented before Genl. Jackson by committees from all the cities and villages of our land praying for a redeeming measure which shall ensure the wanted faith amongst the banks and dealers, there he sits like the Great Mogul immov[e]able, fixed and unsusceptible of any passion except that of anger and stubborness. 
Friday March 21,1834. I suspect that he is [not] so much to be blamed for these infamous measures as some ofhis confidential advisers who make a "Cat's Paw" of him to accomplish designs which they are either not able or not willing to perform themselves. Of these unprincipled men Martin Van Buren appears foremost, who has ever been characterized for littleness in all his actions. He is an aspiring man and would in all probability sacrifice anything, however dear, if it should be his country, to the altar of self ag[g]randizement. 
Saturday March 22, 1834. The people are showing their disapprobation of the proceeding in the Executive by large and patriotic meetings in all our principal cities and towns and by the resolutions and memorials therein passed in which they depict in glowing colours their distress and pray for relief. It is to be hoped that Congress and Gen. Jackson may retrace ruinous ground over which they have already passed and hearken to the voice of the people and reason. 
Sunday March 23, 1834. This day 8 were buried with Christ by baptism and openly professed Him before the world. Among them was one Webster, a young man of some promise and formerly educated as a Congregationalist, of which denomination is his brother who with himself is keeping a school in this city. He intends to study at Hamilton for the ministry. Thus the Lord is raising up young men among us who shall 
43t 
preach the everlasting gospel; thus the force of truth is visible in breaking down old and strong prejudices and making men willing to become Bible Christians. 
Monday March 24, 1834. A demonstration (given by Prof. Jackson) of the 
Prop. found in 50 art. Farrar's Mechanics. 
--INSERT PROBLEM HERE-.--INSERT REST OF PROBLEM HERE-.
Let the force p acting from A towards be represented by AP and the parallel from q acting from B towards Q be represented by B(1 Let the points of application A & B be connected by an inflexible rod des,titute of gravity. At the points A & B apply the equal & opposite forces AM & BN. The resultant of AM & AP is AD, that of BN& BQis BI. Produce AD & BI till they meet at C, draw Co perpendicular, MN & GH parralel to it, make CE & CF equal to AD and BI respectively & complete the parellograms CGEL& 
CKFH. . 
Tuesday We may suppose the forces AD & BI March 25 to be applied at C. They will then be represented by CE & CF. For _these we may evidently substitute CG, CH, CL, CK. It can easily be proved that CG& CH are equal to 
each other and consequently may be neglected and that CL & CK are equal top & q respectively. Hence in the first and second figures S the resultant is= p + q and in the 3d & 4th it is= (p q) it acting in the same sense as the greater force. 
438. Let O be the point of application of the resultant. We have by sim. tri. CO:OA::p:DP& CO:OB::q:QIor DP hence CO x DP= OA x p & CO x DP =OB x q & AO x p = OB x q and p:q::OB:OA (1st result) 
Wednesday Again refering to figure 1 & 2d 
March 26 
p:p+q or S::OB:OB + OA or AB& 2d Result 
q:p+q or S::OA:OB + OA or AB 

Refering to figs. 3d & 4th p:p-q::OB:OB-OAor p:S::OB:AB 3d result & q:p-q::OA:OB-OAor q:S::OA:AB 
(Hence the 2d general Result of Art. 50 presented in Statics) As to the position of the Resultant it is learned from inspecting the figures 1st & 2d that when the forces act in the same sense the resultant is applied at a point between the components . and by inspecting figs 3d & 4th it is infered that when the forces act in opposite senses the resultant is applied at a point without the components 
and adjacent to the greater. the direc tion of the resultant cases paralel to that of the Components.  being in both  
Thursday March 2 7 18 3 4 (A demonstration taken cheifly from Nicholsons Philosophy) Problem. The times of the vibrations of pendulums circles are as the square roots of their lengths.  describing  similar  arcs  of  

Let the planes IH HG &c make the same angle with the horizontal line EO that the planes DK KC &c make with the line AQ Also let the lengths of these planes be proportional to each other that is IH:HG::DK:KC &c. Now the times in which a body will describe the 2 planes DK & IH are as the square roots of the lengths of these planes. The like reasoning may be applied to the pairs of planes HG & KC, GF & CB &c. Hence we may say that the sum of the 'times in which a body will describe the planes DK, KC, CB &c is to the sum of the times in which a body will describe the planes IH, HG, GF &c as the sums of the square roots of the length of the respective planes. 
Friday But the sums of the square roots March 28 are as the square roots of the sums of the lengths of the planes. Because DK:IH::KC:HG::CB:GF Hence DK:IH::DK + KC+ CB:IH + HG + 
&c (1st) proportion GF Extr*. square-roots ~DH.~/IH:~/DK + KC + CB~/IH + HG+ GF (2d) proportion Now extracting the square roots of the terms of proportion (1st we shall have ~DK~/IH:~/KC.~/HG:.~/CB.~/GFHence (3rd) ~DK.~/IH:.~/DK + ~KC ~/CB~/IH + ~HG+ ~GF 440. Now combining the last ratios of propor tions (2d & 3d) we have ~DB.~/IF:.-~/DK+~KC+ ~CB~/IH +~HG+ ~GFwhich was to be proved. 

Therefore the sums of the times in which 2 bodies will respectively de scribe the 2 sets of planes being as the sums of the square roots of their lengths must also be as the square roots of the sums of their lengths. 
Saturday Now if these planes be infinitely March 29 small they may be considered as for 1834 ming a curve, and if another set of infinitely small planes be taken making angles with the[ir] horizontal basets] equal to those which the first set make and if those latter planes are respectively pro portional to the former planes; we may con ceive this last set as forming a curve similar to the former. Hence bodies descending along similar curved surfaces describe them in times which are as the square roots of the lengths of the curves. Now applying this to the pendulum we say that the times of the vibrations of pendulums are as the square roots of the lengths of the arcs; but similar arcs are as their radii; hence the times of vibrations will be as the square roots of the lengths of the pendulums. 
Sunday March 30, 1834. Notwithstanding the poor and imperfect worship which I render to God on His day and the public services I perform to His glory and the benefit of mankind, I can in truth affirm that none of the seven brings with it such lasting pleasure as this. 
This enjoyment arises cheifly from the Sabbath school. 
Monday March 31, 1834. .2 demonstrations of the propositions on page 43 8 made by Dr. Joslin, Union College. 
The times in which a body would 
fall through the diameters AB + 
EH of different circles are as the square 
root of those diameters; and since 
the times in which 2 bodies would 
437 
FIGURE HERE 
fall thro' the cords BD & FH are respectively equals to the times in which these bodies would fall thro' the vertical diameters AB & EH we say that the times in which 2 bodies would fall thro' the 2 cords BD & FH are as the square roots of AB & EH or OB & OH or denoting these times by t & t* our proportion would stand thus t : t* :: ~OB ~/OH . Now 2 bodies falling thro' the cords BD & FH will have acqui red velocities 
sufficientáto  carry  them  thro'  their  curves  BC & HG in times  respectively  
equal  to those  
Pearson  Diary August 19, 1833  -July 24, 1834  p. 71  
*~2. in which BD& FH were described.  

Tuesday Therefore multiplying the first ratio April 1 of our proportion by 2 we have 1834 2t:2t*:: ~OB: ~OH that is 2 bodies will describe the 2 cords FH:HG& the 2 cords DB, BC of the simi lar arcs FH, HG & DB, BC in times proportional to the square roots of the radii OB, OH. The same mode of reasoning will also apply to the pendulum. Hence if pendulums des ~cribed the chords of arcs & the times of vibrations would be as the square 
roots of their lengths. 
Wednesday April 2 1834 The distances of a point, taken within an equilateral triangle, from its vertices to find the length of a side of the same. 
FIGURE HERE Let the lines AC & AE forming with each other an angle of 60-be extended indefinitely. Take AB= 20 chains and AH= 20 Connect BH; ABH will be an 
438 
equilateral triangle. From B with a radius= 30 chains 
Thursday describe an arc; from H with a radius 443 
April 3 1834 = 40 chains describe another arc intersect 
ing the first; connect their intersection D with 
the point A; upon AD take AF= AB= 20 chains. 
From F with a radius= HD= 40 chains describe 
an arc intersecting the indefinite line AE in E. 
Then draw EC parralel to BH& join CF; then 
CAE is the proposed equilateral triangle and 
F the point. for 1st. It is equilateral because v CE being paralel to BH& ABH being an equilateral triangle ACE must also be equilateral. 2d AF= 20 chains FE= 40 chains, by construction & F** = 30 chains by the following demonstration 
Friday In the two triangles ADH & AEF the in which BD& FH were described. 
Tuesday Therefore multiplying the first ratio April 1 of our proportion by 2 we have 1834 2t:2t*:: ~OB: ~OH that is 2 bodies will describe the 2 cords FH:HG& the 2 cords DB, BC of the simi lar arcs FH, HG & DB, BC in times proportional to the square roots of the radii OB, OH. The same mode of reasoning will also apply to the pendulum. Hence if pendulums des ~cribed the chords of arcs & the times of vibrations would be as the square 
roots of their lengths. 
Wednesday April 2 1834 The distances of a point, taken within an equilateral triangle, from its 
439 
vertices to find the length of a side of the same. 
FIGURE HERE Let the lines AC & AE forming with each other an angle of 60-be extended indefinitely. Take AB= 20 chains and AH= 20 Connect BH; ABH will be an equilateral triangle. From B with a radius = 30 chains 
Thursday describe an arc; from H with a radius 443 
April 3 1834 = 40 chains describe another arc intersect ing the first; connect their intersection D with the point A; upon AD take AF= AB= 20 chains. From F with a radius= HD= 40 chains describe an arc intersecting the indefinite line AE in E. Then draw EC parralel to BH& join CF; then CAE is the proposed equilateral triangle and 
v F the point. for 1st. It is equilateral .because CE being paralel to BH & ABH being an equilateral triangle ACE must also be equilateral. 2d AF= 20 chains FE = 40 chains, by construction & F** = 30 chains by the following demonstration 
Friday In the two triangles ADH & AEF the 
~, 7li~ 
April 4  angle FAH is common and by con struction AF & FE are equal respectively to AH & HD hence the 2 triangles are equal and AE ( or its equal AC) =AD, then in the 2 triangles ACF and ADB the angle BAF is common by con struction and FC = BD but by construction BD = 30 chains hence FC = 30 chains, hence ACE is the proposed triangle F the proposed point & AF FC & FE the given distances.  
Saturday  Now in the triangle  BDH we have the April  5.  3 sidesá  


given to find the angle BDH; having DBH add it to 60 -and we have the angle DBA. then in the triangle BAD we have the 2 sides AB & BD with the included angle to find AD= AC the required side. Thus Cos DBH = R (BD2 + BH2) = (2BD.DH R((20) 2 + (30) 2 + (40) 2 =-Rx 0.25, -Cos DBH =Rx 0.25 = ( 20 X 30 X 2 
444. 10 = log R 1.3979400 = log 0.25 9.3979400 = log 75029~ 
Hence DBH= 180--75 -,29' = 104 -31' 
60. .
164. -31 -= angD~A If the work be continued the area will be found to be 212 7 chains or 212. 7 Acres and one side = 49. 5 chains 
Sunday April 6, 1834. Deep and lasting gratitude should fill my heart for what the Lord has permitted me to witness and feel. It is no less than the baptism of my sister, my only sister now doubly endeared to me by the ties of blood and Christian love. She obtained an evidence of pardoned sins during the revival and, altho' she has always attended the Presbyterian Church, the force of truth impelled her to join the Baptist. Besides her, 3 others were baptized this morning at 9 o'clock. The time, the beauty of the morning, the stillness, the smoth and placid waters of the Mohawk and the refreshing coolness of a spring morning tended to make the scene the most pleasant and solemn I ever witnessed. The Mohawk appeared to sleep within his banks and to stop his mighty waters to witness the solemn act which of all others most honors his pure waves. 
Monday April 7, -1834. At the end of last term I was chosen Anonymous Reader, whose office is to read such witty and satirical peices as may be given by members of the Society. The following trash I have penned for this object. 
It does not become me as chronicler* of Union and holding. I now do this honorable station with all meekness and impartiality [not] to enter into any literature discussionems of the merits or demerits of secret societies in general; nor to treat of this subject as touching their moral influence upon [the] community. But as untrue and faithful His 

Toriographer I shall enlighten your erudite minds with a plain recital of those facts which have hitherto remained hidden with all the dark doings of those masonic fraternities that infest the Classic Halls of Union; and drag the huge monster Mysticism forth into the presence of men, even as Hercules did the giant Cacus who had entrenched himself with[in] the everlasting walls of his loathsome cavern. 
*I have before written 4 or 5 Chap. of the Chronicles of 
Union which were read by the Anonymous Readers. 
Tuesday April 8,1834. (Continued) 
And now ye bright spirit of Morgan, whether flitting about scenes of thy 
former exploits or skulling thy brazen canoe up the foaming cataract of Niagara, inspire my muse with the vigor of thine antient possessor; and if I too should become the subject of secret machinations and my life be immolated on the altar of enraged mysticism, I will know that such an avenger would arise from my ashes and such a flame be kindled at my funeral pile that not all the secret brotherhoods of Union could avert the threatened vengeance of my martyrdom. 
Wednesday April 9,1834. History of Kappa Alpha Society. 
In searching out the annals of this fraternity I have had to penetrate a sullen cloud of smoke of the most insurmountable impenetrableness; within this murky atmosphere of tobacco fumes with which this cabal have endeavoured to obscure the dark origin of their mystic club, I discovered the rise of the K. A. Society. Notwithstanding its boasted antiquity and honorableness of birth, which some asseverate happened at Jerusalem in the days of King Solomon and ***** King, some in Noah's ark, the while others more moderate bring it down to the Eleusinian mysteries of which they claim this is a continuation, I cannot find the antientness of its birth to begin earlier than the year 1824. 
Thursday April 10, 1834. Its original founders, as I learn by thin[gs] which of late have fallen into my hands, were a jovial set of Merry Andrews to the number of half a dozen, having more heels than brains; who, being conglomerated on a cold February evening in one of their College Domicils "to drive dull care away," first conceived the ponderous thought that eventualized in the birth of the K. A. Soc. As I said before, so I now say, that the beginning of this junta is surprizingly umbrated in the nubiferous fumagations of a certain weed called tobacco. The mellow zanies aforesaid had sedately formed themselves into a semicircle about the comfortable stove whose cheerful temperature invited them to use it as a common footstool towards which (in the words of Mrs. Trollope) "their en tire rears were turned." 

Friday April 11, 1834. Thus posited, they were accustomed to hold their witty revelries which at this eventful evening was changed to a weighty consultation, each plying with the most nimble dexterity a long Dutch fumagationiouseter and emit[t]ing from his ore apesto clouds of smoke which, arising in voluminous coils, entirely enveloped their heads in its murky fumes. I observed also that, as their confabulations and deliberations became more animated and momentous, they took longer and stronger pulls at their pipes until by the life of me one could not tell which was which for smoke. 
Saturday April 12, 1834. At this glomeration which happened on the 31st day of February, it was unanimously resolved by the whole secret conclave that "it is expedient to form ourselves into a secretus clubus." After this resolution they proceeded to chose a committee, viz. 
Nehemiah Clapsaddle 
Grizel Gridigret 
Jebedee Vinegartom 
Nincompoop Pickle 
Peter-Able A. Stout 
Mr. Hit-him-a-crack for the purpose of drawing up a constitution to be presented at the next meeting. This done the council was prorogued. 
Sunday April 13, 1834. It is ever my misfortune when speaking of religion never to be able to say that I live in the full exercise of love to God. Oh how unfaithful I am! how seldom do I think of God and his son Jesus Christ! My mind, like the fools eye, is wandering to the ends of the earth and derives employment from every other source but the word of God. 
Monday April 14,1834. His. of K. A. Contin'd. 
At the next convention of these Rubin Good Fellows, which happened under like auspices as the former, this committee presented before the learned body a document of tremendous ponderosity containing laws and a constitution for the regulation and perpetuation of a "Novum Secretum Clubum." 
Tuesday April 15,1834. The present limits of this paper, however, would not permit me to trespass upon your patience by giving a minute detail of all these adopted statu[t]es of which nevertheless I have culled a few such as are most explicit in their bearing upon the objects and character of this junta. 
Wednesday April 16, 1834. Preamble. 
Whereas the invention and the improvement of the ars fumagationis has been hitherto transcendentally conducible to the felicitous blissfulness of his terrestrial sojournment and whereas the future excellence of this delectable science is mainly dependant upon the efforts of the present elvum secli, we the undersigned do associate ourselves together in secret clubs, pro bona privato, "pro bono publico," in extemporaneous fumagation. 
Thursday April 17, 1834. The cheif end which the founders and framers of the secretus clubus and its stupendous code of laws seems then to have 
been their  own private and the public betterment  in the art of smoking  
tobacco.  
Sect. 1 Art. 1.  

This secretus clubus shall be known by the name of Kapnodes Adelphotes alias Societas Smokiensis alias again the Smoking Society. 
Friday April 18,1834. (Note.) I find by the society annals that this article caused the most deliberative discussion of any in the whole code and that no less than 21 papers of tobacco were smokefled upon its sole considera.tion. You may depend upon it there was no want of appel[l]ations but the rub was which they should select. "Hie labor Hoc opias est." However, after much severe cogitation and many mortal gripes at the pipe they resolved upon the aforesaid from the Greek in imitation of the PBK. 
Saturday April 19, 1834 Sec. 1 Art. 15 The officers of this society shall be 7, viz. A Trismagistor or smoke master general, 2 pipe loaders, 3 pipe lighters, a secretary and treasurer, 

all to be chosen an[n]ually. 
Sec. 1 Art 16 
The Trismagistor or smoke master general shall be chosen from the senior fumagators, and the other officers from the junior fumugators by a plurality of pipes. (Note) The manner of voting is this. The 2 candidates who are run for any office carry their hats around, into the one or the other of which the members thrust their pipes and he whose hat contains a majority of pipes is chosen. 
Sunday April 20, 1834. Precious as are the hours of this day consecrated to the Lord by the universal consent of of the Christian world, and pure as is the increase which arises from many a worshipper's heart to the great Lord of the Sabbath, it is lamentable to behold in an enlightened land so many whose disregard of its holy priveleges take occasion to make it a hol[l]iday of pleasure and sin. 
Monday April 21, 1834. (His. of K.A. contd.) 
Sec. 7th, Art.4th 
No fumugator of this clubus shall smoke less than 25 pipes of tobacco at any ordinary meeting under penalty of paying for the whole quantum smokefied at said glomeration. 
Sec. 8th Art. 11 th The number of members shall be.limited to 15. 
Tuesday April 22, 1834. 
Sec. 12th Art. 190 
No act of this constitution shall be altered or defaced except by a ballot of 3/4 of all the pipes present at any regular meeting. Hie endeth the secundus conglomeratio. 
Wednesday April 23, 1834. The initiatory performances of this society, which are usually exhibited in some one of their College domicil[[e]s is the most ludicro-seriocomico farce imaginable. You must supply by the fruitfulness of your imaginations what my pen refuses in description. 
Thursday April 24, 1834. The whole conventicle is assembled at midnight, each member being habitiated in such fantastical vestments as his own prolific ingenuity can devise without any uniformity of attire save that all, in imitation of the Paddy of Cork, have their coats buttoned behind to keep 
l-f4-b 
their bellies warm and a long pipe twisted into their hat bands as badges 
of their fumugatorship. 
Friday April 25,1834. High enthroned upon a table sits the great Trismagistor ar[r]ound whom his tatterdemalions stand in a semicircle. His body is encased in a great white sheet, enveloping his whole person; upon his head a lofty paper crown, similar to a fools cap, towers even to the top of the room, and as a sceptor he weilds a big. pipe full six feet long. 
Saturday April 26, 1834. The trembling novi[t]iate is introduced into this pandemonium blindfolded and, being prostrated flat upon his face at his majesty's throne, his conductor thus speaks: "Oh magnus Trismagistor, his estanthropos quod wants to adjungeze this clubus." To which the smoke master general replies abismo pectore by asking his Merry Andrews the ,following question"Shall this homo adjungit our.
clubus? 
Sunday April 27, 1834. It is pleasant to meet my absent friends again after an intermission of 5 weeks and "give the hand of friendship" to those whose destiny is so intimately connected with mine by kindred minds and pursuits. On Friday the term commenced at evening prayers. Few however have as yet resumed their seats or left the dear circle and quiet firesides of their friends for the dull routine of a college life. 
Monday April 28, 1834. His. [ ofK. A.] contd. They unanimously respond in a sepulchral tone, "Bene." "Lege ab preamble et constitutionen," says Trismagistor. At which the secretary reads the voluminous document aforesaid, the prone novice all the time keeping his uncomfortable position upon the hard floor. This ended, the Trismagistor says, "Does this constitutione meet thine approbationum?" To this he gives his assent, daring to do no otherwise. 
Tuesday April 29, 1834. After this he arises from the floor and signs the Constitution. I find recorded a very laughable incident which occured at one of these initiations. It happened that a novitiate in superscribing his name, not having the use of his visual orbs, made the pardonable mistake of dipping his pen into the sand box, then, taking the other vessel, he dashed what he supposed to be a sprinkling of sand upon his signature but [it was] in fact nothing less than a decent horn full of ink which totally defaced the fair page so that without perceiving his mistake he completely smooched his face and hands with the black liquid to the infinite merriment of the mischeivous witnesses of this ridiculous spectacle. 

Wednesday April 30, 1834. The whole evenings entertainment concludes with the grand ceremony of the tremendosum magnum pipum, which splendid instrument and its use I will briefly describe. 
Thursday May 1,1834. This pipe is placed in the middle of the room upon 3 legs, having a bowl about the size of a 3-pail kettle, all made of cast iron. Its form is that of a tripod. The bowl of the pipe, instead of having one stem only, is pierced with 15 holes into which, when used, 15 wooden stems are screwed about 6 ft. in length radiating in every direction from the centre. 
Friday May 2, 1834. When loaded, it contains 25 tbs. of tobacco which is just a charge for one night's fum[i]gation. All things being ready, a shovel full of coal is thrown into the pipe, every man takes his seat at the stems 
and for the first time the novitiate is permitted to behold the beauties Kapnodes Adelphotes. Hie endeth His. K. A. Soc.  of  
History of the ** ** Society  
Saturday  May 3, 1834.  Philomatheans,  I would  most  willingly  cease  to  

trespass upon your good patience by a continuation of these essays, which I am well aware are a confounded bore to you, if in so doing I should not do manifest injustice to the feelings of that body whose secret doings I have so unsparingly developed; a conscious emotion of right therefore impels me to strip the veil of secrecy from all alike. (Continued on Monday.) 
Sunday May 4,1834. The religious solemnities of this Holy-day bring few joys to the man who knows not or enjoys not religion. Its restraints are shackles to his worldly [life?], his soul loaths its sacred delights. But to the Christian it is the happiest of the 7 --a jubilee when, freed from earth's servile bondage, his mind arises to heaven and communes with gods. 
Monday May 5,1834. It followed as a natural sequence that soon after the formation of the K. A. Society, or Societas Smokiensis, certsain malcontents "of the baser sort," despairing of ever being tho't worthy the extreme felicity of being reckoned among the happy number who surround the tremendosum magnum pipum, resolved to found an institution which should satisfy the malignity of their envy and if possible eclipse the glory of the former, gaining themselves those advantages which they had [s]ought in vain by fruitless attempts to enter Kapnodes Adelpotes. 

Tuesday May 6,1834. Long and animated were the disputations of that upro[a]rious squad who held their hebdomadal deliberations upon the constitution and systematization of this society. The incongruity of its first materials, the dissimalarity of their various temperaments and the anxietude of each to his own modus governandi adopted, called forth some of the most thundering spoutifications that have ever graced the sessions of any kindred institution. 
Wednesday May 7, 1834. Finally,, after much discomfuzzlement of their passions, an organization was effected and from the hotchpotch and disjecta membra of their various schemes and documents, a set of rules and regulations was culled for the good order and perpetual continuity of their cabalistic junta. I shall forbear giving ... 
Thursday May 8, 1834 .... you a hearing of their voluminous laws which, 
however, I could do if it were expedient, and proceed to give you some notion of the internal proceedings of this society in my own words. 
Their motto, the 2 initials of which are *** *** or S. Ph., is Stulti Philosophori, which being interpreted signafieth "Foolish Philosophers" or ... 
Friday May 9,1834 .... "Wise Fools." Concerning the spirit [and] propriety of this device I shall soon give you a complete demonstration. The "cheif cook and bottle washer" of this club is called the "Optimus Maximus Pater" or "Old Dady," as he is sometimes more familiarly cognominated, who presides very magnificently at all their meetings, addresses his subjects with much grandiloquence and exercises among them the like sovereignty as the great Olympic Jove amongst the Gods. Thus and so great Pater ... 
Saturday May 10, 1834 .... orders, thus and so it must be done. I had the inconceivable and laughable satisfaction of being present lately at one of their ordinary noctural convocations, and of observing the interior of this splendissimae fraternitatis. I fancied that I was among the grave dignitaries of the Roman Senate whose age and distinguished excellence made even the rude Goths to revere. Among this group the most imposing character was "Old Dady," who sat like the Great Mogul in a very becoming attitude, smartly attired clean above the ears, in a huge bellowstop shirt, looking mightily upstropulous as though indeed he were the begetter and bringer up of his sage-looking brood. 
Sunday May 11, 1834. In criticising the manner of worship adopted by the religious world I see many absurdities which call loudly for reform. Few indeed have a modern origin but, being introduced in antient times have come to be held next in estimation to the gospel itself. (I will speak of this next Sunday.) 

Monday May 12 ,1834. Now I observed that the first business of any importance which was brought before the society consisted of wh~t they call a "philosophic discussion," the subject of which was nothing less than a peck of peanuts. These were deposited upon a large table towards which every man drew his chair and with many a hem and haw prepared zealously to enter upon the tempting theme. 
Tuesday May 13,1834. This was a discussion of few words but most animated gesticulation, "It was still as the breeze but dreadful as the storm." I found there were things about which the "Stulti Philosophoi" were by no means unacquainted, for they treated them in a very novel way. Now if you have ever seen Marblehead fishermen eat alewives and shad, you are well prepared to comprehend the modus in which these "wise fools" eat peanuts. At a word of command ... 
Wednesday May 14, 1834 .... ~ given by "Old Dady" each man raised his right hand to his face and commenced passing it alternately backwards and forwards precisely as tho' they were playing upon a jews-harp. For a time I was non-plused by that which seemed to be a "new wrinkle" in the art of eating peanuts. I was not however at a loss about this nondescript modus operandi, for I saw at the same time that their left hands were not idle-lookers-on during this dextrous exhibition ... 
Thursday May 15, 1834 .... but were busy in passing large supplies of peanuts to their mouths where they underwent the operation of mastication and shelification. Now by uncommon expertness, the effect of continued practice and a great muscularity of the labial muscles, they were able by one operation both to shell the nuts and emit the shells from the right corner of the mouth from whence they were carried backwards over the shoulders by the repeated strokes of the right hand. 
Friday May 16, 1-S34. Before they had ended this weighty and momentous discussion, every man had a pile of peanut shells behind his chair about the size of a hay cock. During this never-before-heard-of performance silence reigned throughout and every eye was bent upon the vanishing pile, nor did these valorous wights cease to do battle upon this peck of peanuts for a full half-hour untill, like a militia colonel, "Old Dady" bawled lustily, "Halt!" when every hand so drop[p]ed and all the Philosophoi, gasping for breath, commenced wiping the sweat which now rolled down their faces in drops as sizable as pretty considerable horseballs. 

Jf-SO 
Saturday May 17, 1834. Subsequent to this [came?] various philosophic papers, essays and literary dissertations, the character of which I will leave you to judge from a few that I have selected. 
Sunday May 18, 1834. I was saying last Lord's day that many absurdities had crept into church service. Among these may be reckoned the reading of sermons, the invariable use of a text of scripture, the formal division of a sermon, and the appendage of an application to the same, the frequent and bad use of quotations and commonplace phrases, the benediction and some others, all of which I shall speak of hereafter. 
Monday May 19,1834. The following peice is rather of a philosophical 
á character. "A new and incomparable System of Phrenology and Craniology, invented by Timothy Fopdoodle, Stultus Philosophos, and published by Obadiah Moonlight. Great Sire, This incomparable discovery of our dear frater Timothy would indubitably have remained undisturbed in his magnum cranium owing to his unconquerable modesty, had I not drawn it forth by the following incident. It came to pass of late that I entered his collegii domicilium and lo to my great abstupefaction the huge corpus of Harince[?] Tour Crout lay stretched at full length upon 3 chairs, his head reclining in the lap of his chum Timothy in the like manner as Sampson's in the lap of Delilah. Perceiving that he slept I said to his chum ... 
Tuesday May 20, 1834 .... Timothy, "What meaneth this? Hast thou discovered the secret of thy brothers strength that it Heth in his hair?" "Not so," says he; "a more consequential disclosion it becometh me to annunciate, the superlativeness of which will enrich the brilliance of my name and enrol it among that list of worthies who were the benefactors of the "humanum racem." Already ... 
Wednesday May 21, 1834 .... the odoriferousness of my renown smells sweet in my nostrils, already the goodly prospects of my present discovery floats before my eyes in visions of the future." "Already you are beside yourself," says I. interupting him. "A waking dream or a little learning hath made thee mad. But, Timothy, remember what... 
Thursday May 22, 1834 ..... Pope says "A little learning is a dangerous thing. Drink deep or taste not the Pierian spring There shallow drafts intoxicate the brain And drinking largely sobers us again." 

"I am not mad," answered Timothy in a lower tone; "have patience and I will tell thee all to thine conviction. Obadiah," continued he. "Didst thou ever see the new-made cider or the unfermented beer labour and groan and work and sputter in the narrow dimensions of its scanty confinement?" "Aye." "Didst thou ever see the wary grocer apply the repeated rap of his knuckles to the puncheons head and detect the wanting liquor?" "Aye." 
Friday May 23, 1834. "Now," continued he, "a glorious analogy this which exists between heads and beer-casks; for what else is the caput of a man but a rundlet bottle or rather jug whose handle is his nose: when the brain or what is synonomous, the mind, which is the contents of a man's jug, once gets into a fermentation, the internal commotion rages continually thro'out the cerebral cavities of his cranium and ceases not till, the muscles relaxing, his jaws fly open and pop leaps forth his laboring ideas to his.infinite satisfaction, like the cork from a beer bottle. Do you catch it? ... " 
Saturday May 24,1834 .... says Timothy. "Aye." "Well, again secondly. Ruminating upon the mighty difference between mind and mind which I found to be vastly disproportionate to the difference between heads of men, I was unavoidably led to the conclusion that altho' one man may have as large a head as another yet that of the former may not contain so large a quantum of brains as that of the latter or, which amounts to the same thing, the former will have a lesser mind than the latter. 
Sunday May 25, 1834. With respect to religion my love is cold and my affections are languid. Oh how strange that it should [be] so! that a poor pensioner on the bounties of Providence should forget the hand that feeds and clothes him and bountifully blesses him with all good. Alas! the ingratitude of the human heart! 
Monday May 26, 1834. "Why then, thinks I to myself, will not mens heads jingle by a slight tap of the knuckle if they are not filled with brains, like the half-filled barrel, and thereby indicate the comparative calibre of different minds? 
Tuesday May 27, 1834. "But, Obadiah, I do not rest the truth of my system upon hypotheses merely. From numerous experiments upon various pericraniums which have come under my observation, I find my theory to agree with facts. I have carryed my Phrenological and Craniological Science still farther and constructed [for] a continuation of my great discovery a kind of g[au]ge or mentometer which I call the Phrenologico Craniometer ... 

Wednesday May 28, 1834 .... consisting of a graduated scale on which I take a man of common sense for my standard and count above and below for greater and inferior minds. Now Obadiah," continued Timothy in a whisper, "I have just been measuring Harince Tour Crauts brains and find by my infallible index that he has just half the quantity of a man of common sense." 
At this moment Harince drew himself up and with a frightful yarp opened his eyes. 
Thursday May 29, 1834. After the reading of the above production, the Poet Laureate of the Society produced the manuscript of a new work which he was about to publish and very generously apply the profits thereof to the purchase of peanuts and pies for the use of the club. The tittle of the work and a few specimens of the poetry I will now read you. 
Friday May 30, 1834. "The infantile songster, being a collection of ditties, nursery melodies and lull[a]ibies, many of which were never before published or heard of, By Peter Stutishot A.S.S. Stultus Philosophos, author of 4 poems entitled "Truth by the Invisible," "Last Warning," "The Devil to pay" and "Lightning up the Stump," &c &c. 
Saturday May 31, 1834. "There was a young man of our town He was so wondrous wise He jumped into a linen bush And scratched out both his eyes And when he saw his eyes were out With all his might and main He jumped into another bush And scratched them in again." 
Sunday June 1, 1834. What a wretched place would this world be without a sabbath; not only would the strict worship and reverence of God be greatly neglected, the gospel shorn of one half its influence, but man would be thrown back centuries in the refinements of social intercourses. 
Monday June 2,1834. 
The girls and boys went out to slide 
All on a Summers day 
The ice was thin 
And they all fell in 
And the rest they run away. 

The Delta Phis, how soft they are Sweet scented fops and debonair But our Philosophia stand Like barber poles about the land. 
The Kappa Alphs are just like logs 
Their choisest men turn pedagogues 
Their days are spent in training others 
Whilst [they] make minds whilst we make mothers. 
Tuesday June 3, 1834. If the limits of this essay would permit I might make more quotations from this forthcoming invaluable little book and edify you with various other productions. It will suffice, however, at present to name the subjects of 2 other papers read that evening. The author of the first, by a very learned and lengthy production, introduced a new method of taking game which consisted in sprinkling a little fine salt upon their tails. 
Wednesday June 4, 1834. The other paper contained the details of some very interesting experiments made by one of the members to discuss the muscularity of fleas and musketoes. He accomplished the object of his search by dipping the feet of these insects into melted wax and then letting them leap. Wherever they alighted, there they stuck and then by admeasurement from the point of departure to the point of lodgment and by taking the altitude to which the animal leaped by Dr. Wollaston's Patent goniometer, this persevering experimentalist obtained data which by the aid of trigonometrical calculation enabled him to tell the muscularity ... 
Thursday June 5, 1834 .... of a flea or muskitoe to a hair's breadth. I shall now close this essay by a very compendious notice of the introductory rites of this scholastic germanity. 
The ceremonial introduction of a man into this society presents a scene of ridiculous galeosification in which "Old Dady" participates with peculiar eclat. My first impressions ... 
Friday June 6,1834 .... on entering the hall of initiation was that the infernal regions had taken a puke and vomited its demi-devils into the orbicular regions of old terra. Sure I am that neither Aeneas nor Ulysses in all their perambulations thro' the dark dominions of Pluto ever saw a squad of flitting spirits so queer, so unsightly, so nondiscript as this odd assembly of "Wise Fools." 

Saturday June 7, 1834. Hesitating for a moment upon the threshold to collect my fluttered spirits and reassure myself that I was [a] carnate being, with trembling step I entered this Pandemonium. It was a small tight room heated almost to suffocation and dimly illumined by the pale sickly rays of an enormous cylindrical oyster lamp which shone in horrid contrast with the sombre visages of the Philosophoi and made the darkness still more visible. 
Sunday June 8, 1834. Religion altho' it shines but dimly in the life of the Christian beams forth with inexpressible glory in his death. Then nothing intervenes between devotion and his God; "tired dissimulation" drops her mask, and hypocri[s]y her tat[t]ered garb. If, as the infidel says, the Christian can be guilty of such vile sins, in death he is victorious. He composes himself quietly to his last sleep because he knows that in the twinkling of an eye after he has entered "that undiscovered country from whose bourn No traveller returns" he shall be ushered into a happier state of being, into brighter scenes of delight and the company of angelic spirits. Only think, one moment after death, the vilest Christian on earth will have a more exalted mind and more durable riches than any philosopher or monarch on earth! Oh what new fields of knowledge will then burst upon his astonished vision! What new ideas and what enlarged capacities will he receive! What now is accomplished in years, will then be comprehended at a glance; altho' now a pigmy in intellect, the Christian shall be a giant and emulate even the tallest archangel in glory. Oh who would not pant to be admitted to such hidden mysteries of knowledge? 
Monday June 9, 1834. Upon the transparent exterior of this lamp were painted many rude devices, such as witches riding upon broomsticks, devils with pitch forks, and little antic imps kicking each other's posteriors. Moreover I saw upon the walls various pictures --of Romulus sucking the she wolf --of Socrates drinking the hemlock --of Diogenes in his tub --of Napoleon on the Isle of St. Helena and of Patrick Henry addressing the assembly of Virginia, the design ... 
Tuesday June 10, 1834 .... of all which puzzled me confoundedly. In one corner I saw a huge pyramid of deal boxes strung up, on the pin[n]acle of which was elevated a little apish babboon whose face was as black as tophet and shone like a junk bottle. Whether this blackamoor was a natural or artificial nigger I cannot aver; howbeit, he was a functionary of no mean consequence since he acted as scribe ... 
Wednesday June 11,1834 .... and held in his hands a thundering "bigum 

libsum" into which he thrust his horrid physiognomy ever and anon with intense application. Now, great Apollo, give us a bottle of the waters of Helicon and Pierus and you, ye heavenly nine, a double inspiration that thy travelling votary may have a safe and speedy delivery! Oh for the pen of Cervantes! "Oh for a latin quotation!" that I may make a luciferous delineation of this nocturnal convocation. 
Thursday June 12,1834. Over against the little demon of whom we have just spoken, "Old Dady" rested his haunches upon a chair of such enormous dimensions that our Presidents seat, when compared with it, would be but a baby's stool. Many of you will, I doubt not, remember the fantastical habili[a]ments in which Don Quixote was invested and how his helmet was 
á a barber's bas[i]n; in imitation of this ... 
Friday June 13, 1834 .... great Knight Errant Opt. Max was crowned with a great white whistling pitcher, alias Night Hawk, which altho' it be not so honorable a vessel as the former, I am told possesses as remarkable a property as the Conjurers Cap or Jack the Giant Killer's 7-mile boots. 
This utensil is said to have been owned by the founder and first Opt. Max. of the society, who having a talentá for doggerel rhyme and extemporary splateration and using this vessel in the ordinary way for 3 years in College thereby so completely impregnated it with his own peculiar properties that whoever wears said night-... 
Saturday June 14, 1834 .. ~.hawk upon his caput becomes furiously inspired even as was the antient Pythoness when she sat upon the tripod of the Delphian Apollo. Besides the above appertinance I beheld that a very decent pair of spectacles rode astride "Old Dady's" nose whose bows were sole-leather and whose lenses were pretty considerable sun-glasses; moreover on either side of his face sat 2 as comfortable whiskers as ever grew on a bears back. 
Sunday June 15, 1834. What an admirable Psalm is the 104th in which with as much beauty-and simplicity, the glory of the Divine Perfections are displayed in the works of Creation and Providence. No one but he who had drank of purer waters than those of the Castilian fount could have indited such heavenly poetry. 
Monday June 16,1834. Now the old man's abdominal parts were so surprisingly magnified that in the not[?] nudity of his body he would compare very well with a hogshead. The cause of this enlarged circumference of his corpus, I very soon discovered, arose from 6 pillows which were enveloped in his breeches and vest in front, either to keep his nether parts nice and warm or to give him the appearance of the greater dignity and stateliness. 

Tuesday June 17, 1834. Howbeit, upon surveying this enormous mass of flesh and feathers, I could not refrain from exclaiming to myself in the words of Shakespeare, "He is a man of an unbounded stomach." From each side of "Old Dady's" chair, even round to the scribes seat, stood in single ranks beings of the most indescribable dress, colour and character. In fact, Philomathians, I am nonplused, I know not what words to employ in this non-get-hold-of-description so that your mind's eye may have a lively view of this uncouth mixtus mixtandum. 
Wednesday June 18, 1834. Here was "rag, shag and bobtail, Tom, Dick and Harry, " each in a dress of his own liking; some were white and some black, some red and some tattoed; indeed this fantastical squad was a complete burlesque upon the "Duripian Invincibles" and recalled to my mind a verse of an old fairy song. 
Thursday June 19, 1834. "Black spirits and white blue spirits and grey Mingle, mingle, mingle you that mingle may." 
Friday June 20, 1834. At this crisis the Constitution is read and he prefixes his 
name thereto. The bandage is taken from his eyes and "O Id Dady" makes the 
following pithy speech with dignity and imperturbable gravity. Oh Nove Novitiate! tu es the most beatus anthropos amongst mortales, thou wast parturiated under a propitious star, since thou hast been permitted the transplendent and inimitable felicitousness to habeo a sedem amongst this simum splendis corpus of Philosophoi. 
Saturday June 11-, 1834. Shakespeare speaketh thus: Some men are born great, some acquire greatness and some have greatness thrust upon them. Of these, my youngest son, thou art one of the latter: greatness circumferentiates thee like a garment. 
Sabbath June 12, 1834. Sabbaths, like houses of entertainment by the way, are placed up and down the journey of life for the refreshment both of the soul and body of man. He would tire and faint were there no sabbath; with a continual sabbath he would grow idle and vicious. 

Monday June 13, 1834. In the beautiful temple of Opt. Max. Pat. it is now this extreme blisfulness to eat peanuts and bibify spruce beer, food and drink which shall be more gustable to thy taste than the nectar and ambrosia of celestial feasts when served by the hand of the beautiful Ganymede. In fine, without any more circumbenditenses thou hast navigated a dangerous pass. On the one hand were the rocks of "Sculla" and on the other was the whirlpool of "Calabogus." Hadst thou not eluded the grasp of the "Kaps," thy ruin would have been most sure; hadst thou been seized by the Delts, thou wouldst now have beensitting upon the 'hurt pond" of despondency, brooding over the eggs of hope and fishing for im.possibilities. Hie Endeth. History of the *** **** Society. 
Tuesday June 24, 1834. The Diabola Philoi Society is nothing more than the stale remains of a defunct debating club which in the year '28, being about to breath its last, was revived and new-vamped under its present tittle. The remarkable fact that from its very commencement this society has been characterized by the possession of a very respectable majority of doeheads amongst its members, who of late at least have in point of numbers exhibited a phalanx by no means informidable, has led those but. .. 
Wednesday June 25, 1834 .... partial[l]y acquainted with them into the very natural and pardonable mistake ofsuppo[s]ing that the 2 letters*** *** or 
D. Ph., which stand so conspicuous on their breasts, literally mean what their characters imply them to be; Devilish Fools, the latter letter being the initial of the old Celtic word Phoula, signafying stultus as you will see bu consulting Machiavel's Dictionary. 
Thursday June 26, 1834. It shall very easily convince you, however, that this interpretation is erron[e]ous. It will be remembered by those who are acquainted with the histories of the Societatae Secretae of Union College that 4 *** ***'s of some note, becoming disaffected and casting their badges "to the moles and the bats," made some very consequential discoveries of the inter polity o.f the *** *** society. 
Friday June 27,1834. I have sedulously collected the disclosures of these men from various sources and they have afforded matter for the history of this society. The report runs thus: the motto of this association is "Diabolo Philoi, which being interpreted signafieth "Friends of the devil," hence the members are cognominated Philo Diabolians"or simply "Diabolians." In developing the causes ... 

tfS8 
Saturday June 28,1 834 .... which led to the adoption of such an appelation, I shall simply tell the story of the birth and proceedings of this society. The Dominion of Diabolus had long been on the decline in Union and his scanty followers were fainting in the cause of their master when he hatched the grand scheme of establishing his sovereignty more permanently and enforcing his obedience more servilely by uniting the efforts and council of his faithful adherents, to whom he might manifest his presence and deliver his diabolical designs. 
Sunday June 29, 1834. Altho' I disapprove of much of the liturgy of the English church, yet that practice of reading so much of the scriptures at stated times of worship as that the whole shall be read in one year I esteem as a very interesting and useful exercise. It is a wonder that a similar arrangement has not been introduced to all our churches; such a thing would doubtless savour too much of episcopacy for many prejudiced minds. 
Monday June 30,1834. Full of his project he assembled his trusty ones in Union and to the waiting convocation thus addressed himself. 
Dearly beloved children and disciples, my native ones in whom from day to day I boast and in whose actions all the year long I greatly delight myself, I can do no less .. . 
Tuesday July 1, 1834 .... than admire your faithfulness to me with the greatness of that subtlety which hath shown itself to be in your heads in serving me and forwarding my designs. To encourage you in the profundity of your craft, be it known unto you that at a full conclave of the princes and principalities of the pit, a project was discoursed and tossed from one side of our cave to the other by their mightinesses ... 
Wednesday July 2,1834 .... which should strengthen both yourselves and me, and enable you to put your foot in the dish of your enemies. This, my trust[ies], is our scheme, that you conjoin yourselves in an infernal convention and association to plot, contrive and transact mischeif in Union, to foment divisions, and upon the ruin of thine own creating to build a foundation for thy future fame and agrandisement. 
Thursday July 3, 1834. Wage an eternal war upon justice and virtue with fraud, deception and falsehood, never despairing [of] my demoniac cooperation. Nay, encompass sea and land to make one proselyte. 
After this diabolical conference His Satanic Majesty departed to his own realms, first promising his Diabolians his presence at their next glomeration and a draft of a constitution. In the mean time the Devil, ... 

Friday July 4, 1834 .... having taken a violent cold, had the fever and ague at such a terrible rate that it well nigh racked the old fellows bones to peices, so he was forced to depute Mr. Beelzebub, his prime minister, to fulfil in part his promise by carrying some written regulations of his master's framing to his faithful subjects in Union. The introductory part of these statutes, stating the intent of the Society and reasons of the laws read as follows: 
Saturday July 5,1834. Seeing that the delectable art of mendacity, of which Diabolus is professor and teacher, has of late been lamentably neglected in Union, and that without this infernal science we cannot over.reach and underwork, make proselytes, accomplish our ambitious and splendiferous designs and move old Union at one nod and, considering the advantageousness of united and organized efforts, we the undersigned, all good Diabolians, do unite ourselves into a combination to be taught by and to serve the Devil who we fondly trust will furnish us with competent skill to overmatch not only the "Kaps" but even the veteran *** ***'s in the effectualness of our falsfications. 
Sunday July 6, 1834. I consider it hardly a matter of choice but of duty for every minister of the Gospel to have a pious wife. His usefulness is nearly doubled, his mind more stable, and he not so much exposed to the venom of old maids tongues. Messrs Backus and Gillett have neither wived yet altho' approaching fast on to 30. 
The consequence is that they are eternally gadding to and fro, and are the unoffending subjects of more love stories than I could well enumerate. Invariably when either of these "Dominies" is absent from town the story is quickly whispered from one to another that he has gone to be married, and when he returns all eyes are looking for his better half. 
Monday July 7,1834. The following are some of the important articles in the constitution. Art. 1 Sec. 1 This society shall be called Diabolou Philoi or Diabolus Friends 
Tuesday July 8, 1834. 
Art. 2 Sec. 2 Diabolus and his Prime Minister, Mr. Beelzebub, together with Lord Apollyon, Lord Legion and all the Princes of his Satanic Majesty's Court shall be honorary members of this Society and entitled to all its priveleges save the right of voting upon the election of officers. 

Wednesday July 9, 1834. 
S e c 2 d A r t 6th Diabolus shall be ex superiore mendacio i.e., by virtue of his supreme art in lying, President of this falsilogicus clubus. 
Sec. 4th Art. 11 It shall be the imperious duty of every member of this society to defend a brother right or wrong, to vote for and procure the election of any Diabolian whom the majority may think proper to propose for any office 
either by hook or by the most diabolical of which duty he shall incur the diswithdrawal of his support.  measures pleasure  he can devise, in default of his master and the  
Thursday July 10, 1834.  

Art. 9. Sec 8th 
This society shall not contain above 45 members at any one time. Provided, however, a convenient place may be procured sufficiently large for their convocation. 
Friday July 11, 1834. 
Sec. 8th Art 13th 
This omnium gatherum shall admit no man to its member.ship who is a "Scientific Poler" or does not wear a super fine coat. 
Sec 9th. Art 1 
This constitution shall not be altered or amended without the concurence of Diabolus and his privy council. Since the adoption of these ordinances, of which the above are only a part, I have been credibly informed that the following resolution has been appended thereto. 
Saturday July 12, 1834. Resolved, that the Parthenon published by undergraduates of Union College to all intents and purposes belongs totally and exclusively te us, that we will support our pretensions thereto by the help of Diabolus ****** "Sigs" or "Kaps" and that we will maintain our ascendency in the Parthenon Society and elevate Diabolians to the editorship. 
Sunday July 13, 1834. David's Psalm 139 upon the omnipresence of God is a beautiful peice of poetry. His figures, being drawn from nature, and real life, are admirable. His imagination,, being chaste and his mind inspired not by the Grecian but by the spirit of the living God, who wonders that such 
melting strains flowed from his celestial harp? 

He says in this Psalm, "Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy presence? If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there. If I make my bed in hell, behold thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the even, there shall thy hand lead, and thy right hand shall hold me. If I say surely the darkness shall cover me, even the night shall be light about me. Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee, but the night shineth as the day: the darkness and the light are both alike to thee." 
Monday Julyl4, 1834. The ini[a]tory ceremonials of the Diabolon Philoi have no special consequentialness to make them worthy of notification, save one, the which as it is conducible to a lucific developement of the characteresticalness, of the said society I shall notice. This rite nevertheless is far from being original with them, it being the same as I have been told that was formerly employed in the choice of deacons. 
Tuesday July 15, 1834. The candidates for the deaconship (speaking with all reverence) were conducted in due solemnity by the Dominies and people to the church, where they stood with imperturbable gravity at the foot of the pulpit with uncovered heads. The dominie ascended the "sacred desk" from which he dropped upon the heads of each candidate in succession 12 hard peas and he whose was the good fortune to have a pate of such consistency as to yield and retain the falling peas was proclaimed deacon. 
In the like manner ... 
Wednesday July 15, 1834 .... the Diabolon Philoi who, by the by, are pretty clever fellows, select their members, finding without doubt that men of soft pates or, in other words, doe-heads are most tractable and serve their purposes. Diabolus and some of his courtiers usually attend these initiations at which times his presence is said to be very agreeable, his majesty being uncommonly brisk and jovial for so old a man. 
Thursday July 17-, 1834. After listening to a few essays and***** from his friends and taking a cup of coffee and a shilling's worth of bread and cheese with them, he and his suite start off on a streak of lightening to his infernal domi[ni]ons, not however before having left a pretty considerable smell of brimstone behind. Hie Endeth His. *** **** Soc. 
From this day, which closes the exercises of my Junior year, to the 12th of Sept., my journal will be found in a little book which I took in my tour east. 

]ournal of a Tour from Schenectady to the White Hills, Boston, New York &c. 
Union College, Schenectady Friday July 18, 1834. During the time which has elapsed since the closing of our examination last evening I have been busily engaged in arranging matters with regard to my project[ed] tour to Canada and New England. Various Society concerns have called loudly for my time whilst the still louder demands of neglected friends and promised calls almost entirely deprive me of my needed self-possession. On Wednesday I had the misfortune by the advi[[s]e of friends, in an evil hour, to permit myself to be enrolled among the members of the Parthenon Club, a society [whose] object is ostensibly to publish the Parthenon but whose practice has hitherto been the fomenting of quarrels, the embittering of former good feelings and the formation of hostile parties. It is now about to come into the hands of our class from which a goodly no. have already been selected, and the subject before the body from several daily meetings has been what are the best means to publish a paper during the next year. Our deliberations as yet have been pretty harmonious and we have anticipated a happier state of things than have ever characterized the proceedings of this society during the past year, but whilst we were in session today for the purpose of bringing to a final settlement on the matters relative to the magazine, the 2 parties which have hitherto been so inimical towards each other came into the old arena of dissention again. The scenes of their former disgraces were harrowed up and acted over again, personalities were indulged in and, in fine, from words they proceed to blows. 
John J. Hyde, the present editor of the Parthenon, being accused by John Woodard of getting Sears to write his Commencement peice, aimed a blow at the accusers head with a cane. Woodard was more scared than hurt probably when he saw the blood trickling down over his ears. However this last act closed the scenes of this day's session. Considerable excitement still exists among the students as to the comparative demerits of these 2 men and with regards to their punishment by the faculty. 
Old Union has become quite lonely and desolate again since the close 

of our examination, notwithstanding the Seniors who still stay about her desolate halls to receive their diplomas and exhibit on Commencement Day before leaving their Alma Mater forever. 
Ballston Spa Saturday July 19, 1834. I had anticipated leaving Schenectady by 9 o'clock for Lake George but was unavoidably detained till 1 o'clock before I gave the parting hand to my friends and harnessed myself for the journey. As I passed over the noble Mohawk and stood upon the opposite shore to view the Dutch city in the distance and catch a lingering look of what contained my few dear friends, even the warm anticipations of pleasure and the desired objects [and] novelty which I so earnestly expect to behold during my projected tour could scarcely efface from my mind the sorrows of parting. "Shall I see my kindred again?" I queried within myself. "Is not this my final view of Schenectady?" 
I was soon able, however, to brush these useless "sentimentalisms" from the mind and pursue my way along the embankment which crosses the rich flats from the bridge to hills, a distance of about 3/ 4 of a mile. On either side I was delighted with the rich fields which groaned under their luxuriant harvest of corn, grass, oats &c. All nature seems to wanton in the gentle breezes of the blessed Septentrionale, made doubly agreeable by the warm rays of Sol. The Saratoga Railroad upon which I travelled passes thro' a much pleasanter country [than] the Hudson & Mohawk. On each side are many superior farms and neat little country seats peeping out from behind ample orchards, the fields are crowned with an abundant harvest of golden wheat and on the whole the scenery is quite agreeable. The S & S railroad was commenced in Sept., 1831 and the grading was so far advanced during the fall and winter that by this July carriages were ready for the conveyance of passengers. The whole cost including carriages, engines etc. was about 300,000 dollars. From Schen'dy to Ballston the road is quite crooked and, for about 4 or 5 miles after leaving the bridge, follows the course of the Mohawk which is in sight much of the way. From Ballston to Sar[atoga] it is ferfectly straight except [for] 2 crooks. At present, 2 Engines are employed which makes a trip usually in about 2 hours. The carriages are elegant, airy and comfortable. However great a convenience these railroads may be to particular places [for a?] portion of the travelling community, it is quite useless in my view to those thro' whose farms they run. After a fatiguing walk of 14 miles I arrived at the village of Ballston Spa, which is in the town of Milton, Saratoga Co. The village is cheifly situated at the foot and upon the sides of the ridge of high land which bounds the valley of the Spa upon the East and North. Upon the South and West is a high sandhill covered with verdure. Along the north side of this 

valley flows the Kayaderosseras Creek, affording a very beautiful retreat for the sportsman and numerous useful mill sites. Along the east side of the valley at the foot of the village flows a small tributary to the Kayaderosseras. The village of Ballston contains about 150 houses among which are a court house, a Baptist and an Episcopal Church, numerous elegant boarding houses and 1000 inhabitants. There are also 2 printing offices, a book store to which is connected a decent reading room for the accommadation of visitors. Ballston owes its existence and prosperity, as well as Saratoga, to the numerous mineral [springs] which are found here. 
The first spring found in the vicinity was nearly opposite Mr. Aldridges boarding house and at first had nothing to distinguish it except a barrel which was sunk in the earth around it. The cattle are said to have resorted to it often to slack their thirst untill its medicinal properties becoming more generally known, the inhabitants erected a splendid iron fence with marble curbings around it. This spring is not at present used although its site is still recognized by the iron railing. It is probable that it still exists some feet below the ground. 
The Sans Souci spring is considered the best in the Village and is found in the rear of the house bearing the same name and u pan the brink [of the] small creek before spoken of as a tributary to the Kayader&c. Near at hand are numerous conveniences for bathing to which numerous springs 
are tributary. 
In the summer of 181 7 a spring was found called the Washington Fountain upon the margin of the creek near the factory. It was conducted up thro' a curb 28 ft. in length sunk to the depth of 23 feet in the earth and was liberated at the top in the form of a beautiful jet d'eau. In 1821 this spring disappeared and, notwithstanding numerous attempts, has never since been found. Without doubt,á had this justly celebrated fountain continued to flow, Ballston might at this time have been too powerful a competitor for public preference for Saratoga; as it is, however, Ballston has a good share of patronage. Besides these are Saw's and Perk Spring, possessed of properties very similar to the above. 
The principal boarding houses are the Sans Souci, Aldridges, the Mansion House and Village Hotel, of which the 2 first are only worthy of notice. The Sans Souci together with all its yards, out-buildings &c. occupy several acres of ground in the northeast part of the Village. The main body of the building is 100 ft. in length, to which is attached 2 wings extending back 153 ft., thus enclosing on 3 sides a beautiful grass plot which is very tasteful[ly] decorated with walks and trees. It is calculated to accomadate 130 visitors in a style not surpassed probably by any in the country. The original owner of the building is Mr. Low of New York to whose good taste and design the village is much indebted for their proudest monument of architecture and convenience. In front and behind are extensive piazzas the whole length of the hotel affording a delightful retreat from the oppressive heat of summer. Mr. Aldridge's boarding [house], situated in the west part of the village, is justly celebrated for its beautiful gardens, and for the lover of nature in all her rural loveliness affords a very acceptable retreat. The great arch and embankment by which the railroad passes over the creek in the southwest part of the village is an object well worthy of seeing especially by the lover of the substantial. 

Saratoga Springs Sunday July 20, 1834. Arose about 5 and walked to the Springs by the railroad. The morning was delightful; the clear sky, the cool breezes, the soft music of the birds together with the stillness of all else did not fail to 
á fill me with extreme pleasure. The company now at the spring is quite numerous and it is with difficulty that a bed can be obtained at many of the houses. It is well worth ones while to visit the celebrated resort not so much for the purpose of drinking of its healing waters as to behold the innumerable variety of characters which composes the transient society of this village. In the morning the beautiful col[[l]on[n]ade which is built over Congress Spring is crowded with persons congregated together for purposes as different as the circumstances they bear. Here are the halt and blind, the rich and poor, the beautiful and deformed, the sick and well &c., in fine, every shade and condition of character. Saratoga is 7 miles north of Ballston and is situated upon the margin of a vale containing a chain of springs which extends from Ballston 12 miles north in a curved direction. The country around Saratoga towards the North is an extensive plain of a sandy soil which, altho' it be not so fertile as some sections of the country, well rewards the labors of the husbandman. The climate is salubrious altho' the prospect from the village be not so extensive as in many other places. Everything that can gratify the eye or taste and conduce to the comfort and ease of the visitors is provided. Here are splendid houses, gardens, groves, balls, shows, panora.mas &c &c. The no. of inhabitants is greater than at Ballston, perhaps 1500. Attended Baptist Church in morning and Presbyterian in eve. 
Lake George, Caldwell Monday July 21, 1834. The weather has been unusually changeable, sometimes cloudy and threatening rain and then clear and warm. From Saratoga Springs to Glens Falls, a distance of about 19 miles, I walked before 1 o'clock. The country is flat and sandy, roads extremely bad so far as sand is concerned. It runs almost parralel with a chain of mountains called the Luzerne from the town of the same name. I must say that notwithstanding the badness of the travelling I was well pleased with the country. The farms and farm houses can be seen sometimes almost to the 

top of the woody summits which are everywhere covered with green 
foliage and rich verdure. 
I could see the mountains about Lake George. To the East the Green Mountains are almost lost in the distance; their tops seemed to support the clouds which hung upon the horizon in fantastic forms of rocks and mountains and antique castles. It added much to the pleasure of the scene to have a fresh south wind blowing direct on my back. 
The village of Glens Falls takes its name from the falls and contains 2 churches, a no. of stores and 500 or 600 inhabitants. The falls are about a quarter of a mile from the village, which is situated upon a beautiful plain capable of almost any degree of improvement either for beauty or usefulness. At the foot of the falls a bridge has been constructed from which this can be seen to very good advantage. The Hudson is here precipitated over the rocks in 3 seperate falls and presents at once an .object of grandeur and novelty to the admirer of nature. The roar of theá waters, the flying of spray, and the high rocky precipices all combine to fill the spectator with awe and admiration. 
Upon the island on either side of which the waters pass is a remarkable c[h]asm in the rock which by the attrition of the water at certain seasons has become quite smooth and of sufficient width to admit a person to walk from one side to the other. This scenery has afforded a fine subject for the pen of Cooper in his celebrated novel of the Last of the Mahicans. In the rocks at these falls are many regular holes worn, probably, by the pebbles which are continually in motion by the water. Some of these pot-like cavities are 3 or 4 ft.. in depth, perfectly smooth and 'round. In fact the whole surface of the rock is indented with small cavities which render it as rough as a rasp. The whole falls is about 60 ft., affording an almost inexaustible source of water for mill priveleges and factories. It has been improved, however, to a very limited degree. 
On the north side of the river is the navigable feeder of the Champlain Canal. Nine miles further is the village of Caldwell at the head of Lake George. The road although indifferent lays thro' a very romantic and interesting country: on the right lie the French Mountains and on the left the continuation of the Luzerne, forming a narrow ravine thro' which lies the only possible communication between Lake George and the South. This valley [has] sometimes been called the Bloody Ravine from the fact of being the scene of many bloody encounters in the French and Revolutionary wars. 
Within 3 1/2 miles of Caldwell is a small pond, called the Bloody Pond into which many bodies were thrown after the sanguinary battle between Col. William Johnson's and the Baron Dieskau's armies. Approaching the lake the road passes thru delightful groves and all at once the broad sheet of the lake bursts upon the view. With its lofty peaks in the background, the mind cannot fail to be delighted. The village is not so large as I had anticipated, having grown up cheifly from the liberality of the fashionable visitors who flock in great numbers thither in the summer time to witness the romantic scenery and feast upon the fine trout which are here caught in abundance. It contains 300 inhabitants, a court house, church and a large hotel capable of accomadating 100 visitors. 


About a mile south of the village are the vestiges of the old Fort Wm. Henry, commonly called the "old mud fort," situated on the first bluff of land which we ascend in passing around the head of the lake from the village. This has been the scene of many fierce encounters and blood-bought victories during the accomplishment of this countries settlement, as the almost numberless graves which are still to be seen will testify. Prior to the construction of this fort, Col. Wm. Johnson occupied its site with an army with which he was preparing to reduce Crown Point. Ere he could march, however, Baron Dieskau with a French army proceeded to attack Fort Edward where were stationed an English garrison; but changing his purpose, he marched for the head of the lake against Col. Johnson who about the same time dispatched a reinforcement to Fort Edward. The 2 armies met and the English were defeated and driven back into their entrenchments, which were furiously beset by the French who had little idea of the strength and bravery of the Fort and English army. The French in their retreat were again met by a party sent from Fort Edward to reinforce Col. Johnson and totally discomfited with the loss of a great part of their men and General. These 3 battles occured upon the same day, 5th of Sept. 1757. 
Col. Munroe kept Fort Henry with an army of 3000 men whom Marquis De Montcalm beseiged with 10,000. After a most desperate and determined resistance on the part of the garrison, they were obliged to capitulate on terms as honorable as they were disagreeable. No sooner, however, were the English marched out than the Indians of Montcalm's army commenced an indiscriminate slaughter upon them, and so effectually did they accomplish their bloody work that but a miserable remnant escaped to Fort Edward to carry the disgraceful news. With how[ever] much Montcalm may have been able to plead the insubordination of the savages, one thing is certain, that this should have been the main reason why he should not have employed them in honorable warfare. He demolished the fort so completely that very few vestiges of it now remain. In the years after, this was again made the scene of martial movements by General Abercombrie who with 15,000 men was proceeding to the investment of Ticonderoga. About 80 rods south of this on a rocky eminence of limestone stands the ruins of old Fort George. 
This Fort does not appear to have been very celebrated in the history 
of our country, yet as a work of antiquity it deserves well the notice of 
the traveller. During the Revolutionary War Burgoyne made this a 
depot for his military stores. 
The shades of evening were fast gathering around when I walked out among the ruins of this old fortification which occupy several acres commencing near the verge of the lake and extending back to some distance. Around the whole ground was a wall of some thickness and height but how great is not now visible. Outside of this on the west and south sides is a deep ditch, but on the north and east, high precipices. Near the south end of this enclosure are the walls of a citadel[[!] of enormous thickness and still 40 or SO ft. high. Its form is quadrangular, with an entrance in the side towards the lake. Besides this are numerous other rectangular piles of stones in the vicinity which probably were the deposits for stores, horses, baggage etc. In the evening a bugler from a boat on the lake entertained the strangers at the Lake House [with] some musical skills which, altho' it was not of the best kind, was rendered very agreeable in the successive echo[e]s which died away upon the ear in the distance. All nature was hushed in silence as the moon rode majestically thro' the heavens and shed her pale light upon the lovely scene. 

The silver lake lay calm and serene as a "sea of glass"; what ,else could disturb the stillness of this scene, which so enchantingly invited the mind to reflection, save the nois[e]y bugle or the buzz of the many voices at the Lake House. How different, thought I, was the face of things SOor 60 years ago: the sound of martial music, the hoarse noise [of] war-like preparations, the sentinel's tread, yea the dreadful din and havoc of contending armies then broke the everlasting stillness of natures domains. It is well that Americans have some spots which are consecrated by the best blood of her sons and will stand as eternal momentos of our country's independence. It serves to revive the patriotism of every young bosom who is so favoured to tread such hallowed places and of nothing it is to be hoped will they tell with more heartfelt joy than that they have had the opportunity thus to do. 
I heard for the first time that the cholera is at Quebec and Montreal. This puts a damper on my northern tour. 
Ticonderoga and Shoreham, Vt. Tuesday July 22, 1834. Embarked on board the steam boat "Mountaineer" at S o'clock with a clear sky and pleasant company. This boat makes a trip to the foot of the-lake in time for passengers to take the Champlain boats, and then returns in the evening to Caldwell. The length of the lake is 3 S miles and is said to equal the celebrated lakes of Scotland and Switzerland in the beauty and sublimity of its scenery. The lake is of a sea-green colour and varies in width from 1/2 to 4 miles and from 20 to 500 ft. and more in depth. The bottom can be distinctly seen to the depth of 25 or 30 ft. with its finney tribe. Scant 4 miles from Caldwell, down the lake, is seen Diamond Island, so-called from the numerous c[h]rystals which are here found amongst the rocks. Six miles farther on the east shore is a mountain called the "Deer Pasture," so-called from the circumstance of its being a grazing ground for deer. In the spring when the vegitation is sufficiently dry a noted hunter named Phelps sets fire to it and burns the whole smoth; subsequently a new crop springs up which the deer come forth to crop and are taken by him in great numbers annually. Two miles farther is the Twelve Mile Island, named this because it is that distance from Caldwell. It makes a very beautiful appearance in the midst of the lake, being elevated 20 or 30 ft. above the level of the water and containing 15 or 20 acres. This whole surface, as are a majority of the other isles, is covered with the fir or cedar tree. Tongue Mountain is 1 mile farther on, the west side of which is West Bay 11 1/2 miles wide and 6 long. Here commence what is called the Narrows. 

The lake is compressed between lofty mountains to the width of only 
á 3/ 4 of a mile for the distance of 6 miles and has been sounded with a line 500 ft. long without finding bottom; hence some credulous people suppose that it has none. Five miles farther on the east side is Black Mountain, 2200 ft. high, opposite to which is "Halfway Island." Sabbath Day Point is a strip of flat land projecting from the west shore nearly half way across the lake. From this cape can be seen some of the most beautiful scenery on the whole lake. This promontory receives its name from the circumstance that aná English army landed here on a Sabbath Day during the French war. One of the most sanguinary battles of olden time was fought here between the Indians and English who, being deprived of all hopes of escape by the lake and mountains, fought till every man perished. The Island called Scotch Bonnet is 3 .miles farther, 3 miles from which on the west side is the "City of Hague," containing 3 houses and as many saw mills. Here the lake is widest, being 4 miles. To Roger's Slide is 3 miles. This is a smooth rock 200 ft. in height and inclined about 65 degrees to the horizon. Col. Rogers, who was an inveterate enemy of the Indians, being pursued by them in the French war and quite surrounded, saw no other chance of escape but by the precipitous descent. He plunged down the rock upon his snowshoes and arrived safe upon the ice. The Indians, supposing that no man could do such a feat without death, concluded he must be supernatural and therefore very wisely gave up pursuit. Opposite is a-huge prominence called Anthony's Nose. I have been told that 2 students from some neighboring college once made a tour to Lake George and, being lovers of the marvellous, undertook the following feat. They hired a man to row them to Roger's Slide where with much difficulty they landed upon the slippery rock. Finding a wide fissure leading obliquely upward from the water they were foolish enough to attempt an ascent. No sooner was the idea conceivedthan they commenced its accomplishment notwithstanding the repeated entreaties of their boatman. Having clambered up some distance they stopped to look back, but the retrospect was full of horror to them. The smooth rock, their dizzy heights 

and the deep waters below you were well calculated to fill you with dismay and trembling. They could not go back with safety and they braved to "go ahead." Thus circumstanced, they commited their souls to God and resolved to ch[o]ose the least of 2 dangers --to go up. To their infinite joy and satisfaction they gained the top after many slips and forboding fears, and from this time, says my informant, they dated their conversion. If the terror of momentary death could ever lead a man to repentance, such a frightful scene as this must undoubtedly have the desired effect. 
To "Prisoner's Island" is 2 miles, where many prisoners during the old French war were confined. West of this is a cape called '1Lord Howe's Point" because immediately previous [to] the battle in which he was killed before Ticonderoga this was the spot where he landed with the army. Lord Howe, who commanded in Philadelphia during the revolutionary struggle was a brother of his. To the landing is 1 mile. Near the outlet of the lake, the water from a deep green assumes a lighter colour owing, it is said, to_ the clay which is said to compose its bed. 
I have now spoken hastily of the cheif objects of note which may be seen in a voyage upon Lake George; still however there are hundreds of . others upon which I might dwell for delight and profit. In fact, the whole length of 36 miles is scattered all along with the sublimest works and the richest beauties of nature. On either side the lake is hemmed in by lofty mountains varying in height from 1000 to 2000 ft. which sometimes rise abruptly from the water and then again, taking a more gentle acclivity, are here and there sprinkled with neat farm houses even to the waters' edge. The sides and summits are usually covered with firs and cedars and present an undulating appearance not dissimilar to wave chasing wave. Whoever wishes to enjoy nature in her wildest mood and drink unalloyed pleasure from her inexaustible fountains will do well to visit Lake George upon whose bosom has floated so often the freight of many a grand army of warlike souls. 
We landed from our little ápacket boat about 11 o'clock under the oppressive heat of a sultry day. After dinner [I] walked towards the ruins of Ticonderoga, which are 4 miles from the landing. On the shallow river outlet of Lake George are seen some fine falls. In a distance of 3 miles the river falls 100 ft. The ruins of Ticonderoga are situated on a point of land running out into Lake Champlain from the west side, and in all occupy many acres of land. The present road leading from Lake George to the ferry by the way of the old fort leads directly over many of the old entrenchments close by the fort and over all the most important works. The entrenchments which lie in the rear of the fort and extend each side of the ridge of ground composing the cape to the old site of the same [are] pretty entire. In many places the earth has been thrown up 12 or 15 ft. and in others the rampart consists of high stone walls extending in zigzag directions. So perfect is the ditch that in many places it is still filled with water. 

Ticonderoga, as I said before, is built upon a cape extending out into the lake. The land is elevated about 200 ft. above the water and on the south side is seperated from Mount Hope by the outlet of Lake George. It forms a pretty extensive bay here sufficiently deep for the mooring of vessels; on the north side the land slopes off less abruptly in extensive interval land which is at present under high cultivation and owned by Mr. Pell. Now this point was so fortified that no enemy could approach either by land or water. Across that part of the point accessible by land was thrown up the zigzag fortifications aforesaid, extending some distance towards and guarded even all the way by a number of square redoubts made of earth thrown from ditches outside. Almost the whole ground once fortified is covered now with a thick growth of maple and birch excepting the extreme point where are the old ruins. One cannot wonder why this was a place of so much consequence in case of war who comes to see the perfect ease with which it may be defended and command the commerce of the lake. Directly opposite on the east side of the lake at a distance of 1/2 or 3/4 of a mile is Mount Independence, which was also possessed by Americans during the Revolutionary War. The old Fort Ticonderoga seems to have been built in the strongest manner that military skill could devise or wealth construct. The massive walls, the breast works, the deep ditches are all made of the most durable material and in the strongest manner. In fact these works seem now to be capable of sustaining a pretty good defense in case of an attack. The parade ground was of a rectangular form and enclosed on all sides by stone barracks, the thick bare walls of which have been standing [as] they were when evacuated and burnt in '77 by the Americans. The only part which is entire is the magazine, which was built underground and bomb proof, being 35 ft. long, 15 wide and 8 high [and which] is arched and of stone. Near the southwest part of the fort is the entrance of a passage leading underground to the lake. Thro' this Col. Ethan 
Allen  marched  in  '75  "in  the  name  of  the  Great  Jehovah  and  the  
Continental Congress ."  
About  60  rods  farther  south  is  another  fort  built  during  the  

Revolutionary War upon the very verge of a precipice which terminates the point. The walls next the lake are SOor 60 ft., high. This is called the "Grenadiers Battery." So long ago as 1756, the French built Ticonderoga and from that time till the close of the wars [it] was alternately in possession of the English, French, and Americans. In the year 1758 Gen. Abercrombie attacked the fort with a large army of 12 or 15,000 men but was repulsed with a loss of 2000. On the approach of Gen. Amherst in 1753, it was yeilded up by the French together with Crown Point. From this until 1775 it continued in the hands of the British, when it was taken by Col. Allen. In 
473 
1777, Gen. Burgoyne came up the lake with his splendid army of 10,000 men, baggage and stores, but finding Ticonderoga an opposing obstacle to the prosperity of his campaign he was determined to accomplish its conquest, For this purpose he trsansported cannon with immense labour to the west side of of Mount Hope or Defiance and from thence to its summit, drawing them up by means of tackles and blocks attached to yew trees. 
Having surmounted this Herculean labor, which was considered altogether impracti[ca]ble by the Americans, he prepared to pour his shot directly down into the fort from his lofty eminence of 720 ft. Gen. St. Clair, perceiving the advantage which was gained over him, abandoned the fort in the night, sent his stores to Whitehall by water, and set fire to the fort, whilst the main army marched from there to Hubbardtown where a smart skirmish took place between Col. Warner with 1000 men and the British advance guard, in which the former left the f[ie]ld to superior numbers. They joined Gen.Schuyler at Fort Edward on the 12th of Sept. 1777. 
At Fort Ann a battle took place between 2 parties in which the British sustained a considerable loss. Since the [that?] period the fort has been left to the work of time to accomplish its ruin, which he has so faithfully done that many of the tottering walls have fallen. Should decay be permitted to ravage upon these works a few years longer, nothing will be left where Ticonderoga once reared her impregnable walls but a miserable heap of rubbish. It is mournful to behold how frail and transient are the works of military renown, how short is the period of their existence and estimation. Where armies encamped for years in all the pomp and cirumstance of war, where many a noble heart beat high for glory and civil freedom, the rank thistle nods unheeded in the wind, fattened by the blood of thousands of brave men. Perhaps no spot in America has oftener been the object of contention and been more subject to the changes of war than Ticonderoga. It seems as tho' this were the very focus of bloody warfare and the very avenue of deadly strife whenever it was the fate of this land to be involved in sanguinary quarrels. Considering the grand scale on which all the works at this place are constructed and the vast no. of men neccessary to man such extensive lines, we can form some estimate of the terrible work of destruction which they were capable of committing. 
I visited these noble ruins with double interest on account of the part which my Grandfather took in the affairs of '77. Having wandered among the works several hours, I walked down to the lake shore and called at an old stone house to get a drink of water. The good woman informed me that this was a store-house in the old war. Thirty or 40 rods west of this, the road passes close by the well which supplied the fort with water. It is of very ample dimensions, but quite choked up now with dirt. In passing 
47t 
from the fortifications to the ferry I passed thro' the length of Mr. Pell's farm which lies along the lake about a mile and is one of the prettiest tracts of land I have seen this many a day. An old "nigger" named Jack ferried me over to Larrabee's Point in Shoreham, Vt. where I intend to wait for the steam boat till tomorrow. At this place the shores are flat and afford abundant crops to the husbandman who will till the soil with care and attention. 
On Larrabee's Point is a large store and tavern where those travellers who are going either up or down the lake take the steamboat. Here is a very rich quarry of marble situated close to the waters edge, affording a good material for building and ornamental work. It is very black, close.grained, and lays in strata of variable thickness, nearly horizontal. The proximity of this quarry to the lake, the ease with which it is wrought, and the abundance of the stone will make it some day very valuable property. I am told this is the same as the Middlebury marble so much used and noted in New England and New York. 
Middlebury is a neighboring town and has a flourishing college. Vermont, being an inland state, has fewer facilities than any other of the New England States for the import of her produce and domestic manufactures, and the import of foreign articles. A great portion of the merchants, I suppose, purchase in Boston and draw their goods across the country. However I am told that they bring many by water by the way of New York. 
V[ermon]t is an excellent grazing country and raises more wool perhaps than any other state in the Union. I was told by a wool grower who possesses 700 sheep that it was more profitable to the Vt. farmer to "grow" wool at 37 1/2 cts per lb. than to occupy his farm in any other way. The price of wool this season has been-unusually low, being only from 40 to 45 [cents] whilst last year it was from SO to 60. So much for the prosperous administration of Jackson. 
Burlington Wednesday July 23, 1834. Awoke this morning and opened my window towards the lake,-which lay slumbering in beauty before me. The sun had already arisen and called forth the music of the feathered tribe, and what added still more to the enchantment of the scene before me were the many boats which covered the lake, spreading their pretty white sails to the morning breeze. It was 1 o'clock before the steamboat Franklin came along; in the mean time I was obliged to lounge away the hours as agreeably as possible and derive what little pleasure I could from a talkative old fellow who appeared to be one of those neccessary appendages to the landlord's bar --a rum drinker. At one o'clock the steamboat came along and took me aboard by means of the small boat. 

This way of landing and receiving passengers is very convenient and expeditious altho' quite dangerous withal. When the Captain proposes to land, he orders the boat to be lowered, to which is atta[t]ched a very long rope. When opposite or nearly so to the landing to which the steamboat passes very nigh, the small boat is let go the length of 20 or 30 yds. of her painter by which she is drawn with amazing swiftness thro' the water. The helmsman of the small boat, instead of steaming straight after the steamboat puts the helm down so as to bring her obliquely up to the wharf with great velocity. The moment she toutches, the painter is let loose on board to prevent her being brought immediately along and is permitted to run from a large cask in which it is coiled untill the boat is ready for departure, when she is drawn alongside by those on board and hoisted to 
á her hangings again. All this is done in much less time than I am writing this and without stopping the steamboat. The Franklin is a very large and costly boat, possessing doubtless too much capital for the travel in this lake. I was told that 30 hands were employed on board which fact I had no reason to doubt, for it seemed as tho' there [were] more men than passengers. A more delightful excursion could not be well conceived than a sail up the Champlain. It is true we do not behold the áwild and sublime scenery of Lake George, rocks piled on rocks where silence has reigned forever, but prospects more beautiful and familiar --the thrifty farms and neat cottages, flocks grazing upon the hills and the smooth lake covered with boats laden with the products of the lap.ct. The country is more elevated and precipitous upon the New York side of the lake. Fifteen miles from Shoreham is Brown Point where was formerly a fort contemporary with [the one] for Ticonderoga. The lake at this place is extremely narrow and offers a very advantageous situation for works which could easily command the whole commerce of the lake, the old white walls, as yet very conspicuous, commanding the attention of the traveller for miles below it. At present, I was told, a portion of the barracks is fitted up and occupied as a dwelling house for the occupant of the neighboring land. What feelings would occupy***** of an admirer of antiquity if he -were able to inhabit such a venerable dwelling, so celebrated in the history of his country! We passed but few islands and these down towards Burlington where the lake is 1 0 or 12 miles wide and the shores much lower and better cultivated especially on the West where I saw the most beautiful farms and country sloping gently to the water and exhibiting all the beauty of order [and] good husbandry. Numerous villages are also seen here and there on the lake and every diversity which can please the eye and make glad the heart of man. We arrived at Burlington in good season, having made our passage in 

about 5 hours against a pretty strong breeze. The view of Burlington from the water is beautiful beyond description, not so much by reason of the splendor of its houses and public buildings as of an agreeable mixture of natural and artificial works. The c,olleges are seen back of the town, to the right of which [are] several splendid mansions looking down upon the lake, among which is Mr. Van Ness', at present minister to Madrid. In passing into Burlington Bay, we passed very near to the beautiful Cedar Island on which is the lighthouse; it appeared to be of considerable extent and adorned with trees and gardens. 
No sooner had the steamboat toutched the wharf than in rushed a multitude of hotel attendants as tho' Satan [had] kicked them in, and so amazing, obsequious and obliging that they had well nigh lugged my baggage off against my consent. All was hurly-burly, some running to and fro for their trunks and all jostled and squeezed almost to suffocation. "Shant I carry you up to Col. Thomas, sir, in my omnibus? says one, "Best.house in town." "Jump aboard my coach?" says another, "I'll carry you to Doolittles' and Somebodies' for nothing." "Splendid 'comadations, no mistake, Mr. Such a Ones barouche, sir," says a third, "please step in -.we're right off --carry ye to the best house on the Square." 
I was forced to use all the address and circumspection possible to keep my baggage, which if they once get, all's up with you, you must be content to follow. Of all the little grievances in travelling I know of none more vexatious than the conduct of these unfortunate rascals who scorn to take no for an answer, or give up the chase by a flat denial. Having safely extricated myself from this hornets nest, I shouldered my pack and posted up into town where I soon met with a tavern of my own liking. After tea [I] issued forth to behold the beauties of the village among which I had anticipated the renowned "square" would not be least. Nevertheless I must acknowledge that my foretastes were too sanguine, hence my disgust the more sure. It is but a tame, tasteless thing indeed, as one would expect from its name, but enclosed w/a paltry set of buildings if we make one or 2 exceptions.In the middle there is a grass plot, an acre perhaps, surrounded by a decent white fence and cut up by many intersecting paths. This is all lcan say for the Square. On the south side is a mean old wooden hovel beside a huge brick hotel.. On the north is the United States branch bank, a tavern, groceries etc. The sym[m]etry of the plan is spoiled on the west by a large hotel and court house which stand out some rods in front of the other building stores on the west. It is much too small and wants much more an air of taste than of utility. 
The Episcopal church, a few rods northwest of the Square, is indeed the only work of importance worthy of Burlington and its beautiful site. It was built lately for Bishop Hobart whom I heard preach and, considering the bad taste which is ordinarily exhibited in matters of architecture, combines much that is elegant and permanent in art. It has quite a gothic effect upoán the feelings of the spectator when he beholds the tapering spires, the long windows with their painted glass, the massy stones and the enormous folding doors, and besides all this hears mingled the deep tones of the organ with the solemn chant. Bishop Hobart, I presume, is an elegant writer and learned scholar, but like all clergymen of his order he has an unnatural sing-song tone which perhaps originated mainly from the custom of reading prayers. He is a man rather above the common stature, handsome in his form, of commanding respect [aspect?] and prepossessing appearance. I was particularly delighted with the singing of the chorister whose voice was uncommonly fine. 

By 9 o'clock I had enough of Burlington which from my short acquaintance I take to be a peaceful little town, containing good society, but more indebted to nature than to art for its celebrity. 
Montreal and Quebec are again visited by the cholera. Their inhabi.tants are passing the States by thousands to flee the pestilence which heaven forbid I should foolishly run into, so I will betake me and my journey toward White Hills about 100 miles e,ast. Having written a letter home to signify my resolution and quiet all fears, I shouldered my pack in the beginning of as hot a day as Sol ever smiled upon. For the first 5 miles until! coming to Onion River I met nothing worthy of note and must nec:cessarily pass over the whole way in silence unless, perchance, I make a few hearty groans for my sore feet, which are a grievance beyond consolation. 
Onion River, the most considerable stream in the State, rises in the Green Mountains and empties into Lake Champlain a few miles below Burlington navigating a narrow valley which contains the best land in the state. Of the fertility of the soil I had soon an occasion to witness in the luxuriant growth of the indian corn, grass, and other grains. Peace and plenty indeed reign among these plain unsophisticated lords of the soil who then [there?] till the ground with the sure hope of ample products. After entering this pleasant valley, the heat became almost intolerable; not a breath of air moved and, while plodding my weary way, at such a time and in such a place, I thought nothing was so appropriate to the occasion as the following verses from Cunningham's Pastoral of a Day. 
Fervid on the glittering flood 
Now the noon-tide radiance glows 
Drooping o'er its infant bud 
Not a dew drop's left the rose. 
By the brook the shepherd dives From the fierce meridian heat 
478 
Sheltered by the branching pines Pendent o'er his grassy seat. 
Now the flock forsakes the glade 
Where uncheck'd the sunbeams fall Sure to find a pleasing shade By the ivy'd abbey wall. 
Echo in her airy round O'er the river, rock and hill Cannot catch a single sound Save the clack of yonder mill. 
Cattle court the Zephyrs bland Where the streamlet wanders cool Or with languid silence stand 
Midway in the marshy pool 
But from mountain, dell, or stream Not a fluttering Zephyr springs Fearful lest the noon tide beam Scorch its soft, its silken wings. 
Not a leaf has leave to stir Nature's lull'd serene and still Quiet even the shepherd's cur .Sleeping on the heath-clad hill. 
A more beautiful peice of poetry and simpler cannot be found. 
In the afternoon I passed the Camel's Rump, a peak on my right 3000 or 4000 ft. high, the loftiest mountain in the state. One need not be surprised that Onion Valley is an oven, being enclosed by such mountains. The business of-my journey, however, was agreeably relieved by the refreshments of milk &c. which I obtained from the farmer's daughters, pure, simple-hearted girls whose minds never strayed beyond the limits of their own neighborhood. The nimble deer of their native hills is not more shy nor more content than they --knowing nothing of the world, its deceits or its enticements. 
It was night before I reached Waterbury, a little village on the bank of the Onion River 2 8 miles from Burlington. It was a luxury after such a day's toil to seat myself at the supper table and satisfy the demands of a craving appetite, as well as rest my 
weary limbs. 
I should consider it an irksome task indeed to travel the country with no better end than progress in my journey; even the task which I have performed today has been delightfully sweetened by the contemplation of nature in her wildest form, and by the romantic scenery which greeted my vision at every turn in the road. 
"No rural sights alone but rural sounds Exhilerate the spirit, and restore The tone of languid nature." 
The noisy babbling of the Onion, now reduced to a mere brook; or hoarse murmur of a distant waterfall or the clack of a neighboring mill, each in their turn afforded relief to the tedium of the way. At an early hour I retired and committed myself to the arms of sleep. "Balmy sleep! nature's kind restorer!!" 
Danville Vt. 
Friday July 25, 1834. On account of the oppressive heat, resolved to ride today; took stage about 10 o'clock and arrived in Montpelier at one, where we dined. Montpelier, the capital of the state, is upon the Onion River 40 miles from Burlington and appears to [be] a very pretty little business. A very commodious state house is in progress here built of fine granite taken from a quarry in a neighboring town. 
I think the design is better than the location of the house, it being too low to command an extensive prospect. 
In the spring and fall, when the mountain torrents become swollen, Onion River rises suddenly to an alarming height. I was credibly informed that, at certain narrow passes which I saw, this stream sometimes rises 7 5 feet above its natural level; indeed we have no reason to doubt the assertion when viewing the defile thro' which it winds its way among these mountains and rocky barriers. 
A few years since, I saw a statement in some newspaper of a very great flood at Montpelier by which nearly the whole village was inundated; indeed, if the Onion is such a mad thing as 'tis said to be, no one can wonder how the little flat on which the town is principally built should at times be flooded. I will not venture to say how many inhabitants this village contains for the best of reasons: I do not know, neither could I find [any]one to tell me. This fact I have observed in almost every town, that 
scarcely anyone knows how [many] people dwell therein, so that I shall in giving the statistics of any town give numbers in general terms. Took stage coach again at Mont[pelie]r for Danville and after "cut[t]ing and shus[s]ing" about town half an hour began to ascend an interminable long hill with 




4-SO 
passengers. Of our afternoon's ride I can say so much only that the road was as uneven, and the scenery as romantic, as could be imagined in passing across the Green Mountains, but in faith I could say I had been in the very heart of them this day and a half. 
Littleton, N.H. 
Saturday July 26, 1834. The early riser enjoys a luxury in the pure morning air and the sweet carols of the birds of which the bed-ridden sluggard never dreams, so thought I as I walked forth this morning upon my journey. Every breath of the virgin air gave me new vigour. Every grove was made glad with a matin song. M[other] Nature, just waking from her sleep, invited man to enjoy her. 
In the country where most She smiles and blesses ***** h,er favours are not dispensed in vain. The farmer is the only true worshipper of nature, he waits not in bed till the rising sun looking down upon him [and] says "Behold inglorious here he lies." As I advanced on my way, the curling smoke began to rise slowly from the farmhouse chimneys; the busy housewives were stirring, the merry milk maids were stripping the patient cows. 
Taking advantage thus of the morning coolness I arrived at St. Johnsbury Plains before the heat had become oppressive. Here is a pretty little village which [owes] its importance to certain manufactures of iron &c. The proprietors Messrs. Fairbanks have lately obtained a patent for an improvement in scales which promises . to be both useful and profitable. These "Patent Platform Scales" are also manufactured at their shops. 
About noon arrived at the Connecticut River, the boundary between Vt. and N. ,H. and being excessively fatigued rested some hours at a little tavern by the bridge. 
This river, which rises near "Canada Line," is here wide and shallow, affording no facilities for navigation except that of rafting in the spring. 
Passing the Connecticut, I once more stood in my native state after having been absent 2 1/2 years --a pleasant spot I walked upon, too; for several miles the road lay along the high banks of the river which, mingling the noise of its angry tide with the roar of distant thunder, added sublimity to the scene. 
The declining sun was soon ***** by a cloud of frightful blackness which here emitted flashes of lightening almost without intermission. The trembling leaves were motionless --nature's music was hushed and a livid gloom covered her beautiful face. As the black cloud in the west crept higher and higher and the peals became louder, admonishing me of the approaching torrent, I hastened my steps and began to look wishfully for a shelter and, just in the nick of time when I was most patiently expecting to be thoroughly drenched, a little tavern afforded me the desired protection. 

The rain fell deluge-like; it seemed as tho' the floodgates of the heavens were opened and all her artillery let off at once. The noise of the successive explosions which almost trod upon each others heels were reverberated from hill to hill till they entirely died away upon the ear. As soon as the storm had spent its first fury, I sallied forth and travelled a most dreary 5 miles thro' a gloomy forrest with scarcely a habitation to relieve the eye or cheer the heart. What made it feel the more dismal was the gathering darkness and the sullen aspect.of the sky which continued to threaten another shower. 
Arrived at Lyttleton in time to escape the storm, which raged all night. This is a little village of not much importance built upon one street, containing a tavern, barber's shop, store, some dozen decent houses besides a set of mills. Altha' within 18 miles of Ethan Crawford's, the White Mountains cannot [be] seen, so hilly is the intervening country. 
White Hills Sunday July 27 1834. To a traveller who stops at taverns there is no Sabbath. His ears are continually offended with the noisy jest of the . bar-room occupants, the arrival of stage coaches and the bustle of busy preparation. Unless he shut himself in his room and stop his ears, his mind will wander up and down the earth and rest anywhere except on devotion. 
Putting myself under the conduct of my landlady's daughter, I ob.tained a seat in the village church, and listened to a history of the Devil by an old man of threescore years and ten. He is one of those aged men who preached to our grandfathers, going from the plough to the pulpit, who have more piety than talents and more bigotry than either. His sermon had a wonderful effect upon his hearers, operating not only as a bore, but a powerful narcotic; many a fair lass and country bumpkin snored immoderately and dreamt of the devil. This was a matter of no concern, however, to the speaker who had always been accustomed to preach his auditors into a comfortable if not eternal sleep. 
After church rode to Ethan Crawford House. The road, which was tremendous rough, lay along the lower Amonoosick, one of the most considerable tributaries of the Connecticut. As yet the whole way is a wilderness with the exception of one farm. Here nature in her wildes mood reigns undisturbed. The bear and nimble deer, antient inhabitants of these forrests, are still taken in considerable numbers in winter, whilst the rivers and lakes afford abundance of a delicious fish called the trout. My afternoon's ride was rendered unpleasant by the badness of the road but doubly so by my companions who were 2 vulgar whoresons of horsewhippers. They were profane and filthy in their language, low and grovelling in mind. I had a whole history of their amours with servant girls and kitchen wenches, with their plans for enjoying other such sweet 
4-82 
bodies. Their fulsome language and noisy horse laughs fairly disgusted me 
so that I wished them to the devil or some place where their rottenness would not offend me. 
These 2 fellows are a pretty fair sample of coach drivers who, with some honorable exceptions, are notoriously vicious and careless. Their office is indeed one of great trust, being no less than that of the travellers life, yet is woefully abused in many instances to the sad experience of men who have had the misfortune to be upset. 
Ethan Crawford, who has passed his life among the White Mountains, is both Postmaster, guide, landlord and what else, I know not. Nature has made him like her other works in this region, upon a large scale. His large figure and giant limbs remind one of the matchless Hercules; good nature beams in his countenance and altho a rustic, travellers will find him both kind and accomadating. His house, which has lately been enlarged and furnished with a piazza looking towards Mount Washington, is sufficiently commodious to lounge and board 50 visitors with all the real comforts if not elegancies of a fashionable hotel. 
All that is lost here in the beauties of art and the embellishments of high life are doubly made up in the sublime scenery and unrivalled workmanship of Nature.The eye of man can never be weary with viewing, nor his mind satiated with contemplating her beauties. Art is mocked in the comparison. 
The whole summit of the mountain, which lay to the east, was enveloped in a cloud the whole evening. In anticipation, however, of a clear tomorrow we made up a party of 12 for the purpose of ascending it at an early [hour] the coming morning. 
In the evening Ethan amused us with an exhibition of the skill of his little daughter in playing upon a little stringed instrument of crude 
workmanship in some respects resembling notebook or teacher she had acquired great fingers and a very considerable variety of tune ds.  a ex guitar. terity in the  Without use  either of her  
"Ethan's"  

Monday July 28,-1834. Before Aurora, "fair daughter of the morn," had opened the gates of the east with her roses and chased the constellations from the heavens, or bright Phoebus harnessed the furious steeds of the sun, I roused myself from slumber and took a delightful promenade upon the piazza. Altha' the aspect of the heavens did not present omen's very favourable to our intended excursion, yet after a consultation with "Ethan," who is an infallible counsellor on all matters relative to "wind and weather," we set about [our] busy preparations. 
In the first place 12 horses were bro't to the door, every one of which was a nag worthy of being a "Dapple" for Sancho Panza or a ""Rosinante" for Don Quixote. Here were gleanings from the barn yards adjacent to "Ethans" for miles around and a complication on all the diseases to which horse "flesh is heir to." The tackling was in direct keeping with our Wild, unshorn and uncombed beasts, being plentifully supplied with tow strings and wooden pegs. At an early hour we mounted, our guide leading the way upon a black stud, the highest [me[t]tled and hardest trotting horse of the whole lot, with an enormous pair of saddle-bags full of all the good things which "Ethan's" house afforded. 
On the whole, our cavalcade made a formidable appearance when under way, and if our horses were not the best, they rendered us a very agreeable service. All the way from "Ethan's House" to "the Camp," a distance of 7 miles, we passed thro' a dense forrest inhabited only by bears and deer. The path, which considering the nature of the country is a very goodáone, is pass[a,]ble only on horse back. 
After threading our way hither and thither thro the woods for 2 hours, we came to a full stop at the camp. 
Here I will take a glance at my company. They were a party from Boston, apparently well-conditioned in life and exhibiting every characteristic of a true Yankee. But 2 of my companions attracted my attention cheifly, the one a pure-cold-water man and the other a brandy-bibber. 
They first manifested contrary likes and dislikes at a spring of pure cold water where we rested to refresh ourselves. The former slaked his thirst with water, the latter pulled a bottle of brandy from the guide's saddle bags and quaffed his favorite beverage. The brandy bottle, however, was a signal forever with "Temperance Man," who commenced battle forthwith upon his companion of strong drink; and altho' the contest continued during the whole excursion with occasional intervals, it was carried on in good humor, affording much merriment and relief to the party. 
After a refreshment from the "Saddlebags," we commenced operations on foot up a declivity possessing an angle of about 45 [degrees] with the plane of the horizon. The younger of the party started off in high glee and soon were out of-hearing but this, like all other youthful efforts conceived in passion, displayed their folly. They spent their strength in the very outset whilst we, the more wise, were removing every obstacle in the way of this progress and taking advantage of every twig which could afford them a safe support. From the base to about one half of its height the mountain is covered with a dense forrest of spruce and fir whose branches form a cool shade impervious to the sun's rays. The soil seems cheifly to consist of decayed vegitation; above this is a thick spongy moss which, being filled with water by rains and dews, retains it for a long time on account of the seclusion of the sun, and supplys not only the natural wants of vegitation but the numerous riverlets which take their rise in these mountains. It extends far above the limits of other vegitation almost to the summit and will sustain the weight of a man. In this respect it is an admirable convenience to the traveller who would otherwise receive many slips and falls in clambering the loose fragments which lie in his way. 

As we proceeded onward, the climate became less favorable to vegitation, till we could find no tree except a few stunted firs some of which, not more than a foot in height, extended their thick matted branches for many feet around, affording a very firm and sure footing. These trees present a very novel appearance being perfect[ly] flat at the top and having trunks from 3 to 6 inches in diameter. At the half-way spot we all most cordially took another peep at the saddle bags, my two friends keeping up good feeling in the company by their mutual sallies and frequent draughts of their favorite drinks. 
The most difficult part of our journey now remained to be surmounted. For a mile and a quarter we climbed over tremendous masses of dark grey granite piled together in the most confused manner. In regard to the mineralogy of the mountain I can say little except that its surface is covered with rocks, which in some places are slate, in others flint but cheifly common quartz with here and there a few trifling specimens of rock chrystal. 
I know not that lime stone has ever been found about the mountain. The only thing which marks the highest spot to be attained is a pile of lo[o]se stones humped up by visitors into which is fixed a long pole surmounted by a strip of cotton cloth in the form of a flag. 
Being now upon the summit of Mount Washington and looking over all the world beneath, I feel more than ever the inadequacy of my pen to the sublime subject which it undertakes to describe. We are in the region of the watery clouds which ever and anon, as they flit by us, driven by the chilly north wind, entirely shut out the enchanting vision from our view; far below us, too, in midair hang others as pure and white as the driven snow. Above us the eye rests upon nothing but the sun sailing in a cloudless sky; beneath it wanders from town to village, from lake to river and from the deep green vallies at our feet to the azure mountains almost lost in distance. 
The whole country around to the utmost stretch of vision appears one vast undulating plain, diversified with every natural beauty that can please the eye or delight the soul of man. The wide, bristling forrest has now dwindled into a smooth green field, the great lake to a mere speck and the broad river in to a silver thread winding along the landscape. On whatsoever side I turn my eyes 1 behold a fair scene rendered still fairer by the almost infinite variations of light and shade. It was about 1/2 past 11 o'clock when we attained the summit and, altho' a very warm day in 

lower regions, was so cold with us that we were put to shifts to keep 
ourselves warm. 
Sitting down under the side of a great rock, close by a spring, we again had recourse to our guides wallet whilst the "Temperance Man" took to discoursing upon the properties of pure cold water and my friend of [the] bottle to preparing a "swig" of brandy. In a crevice of the rock we found champain bottles stuffed quite full of cards left by former visitors. 
Nothing grows here but moss and a few spears of long grass called "winter grass." The effects of that heavy rain which fell a few years since are yet seen in the tremendous avalanches then made. The storm lasted for many days. During this time the thin soil that covers the steep parts of the mountain, becoming moistened and loose, upon the slightest occasion 
á commenced sliding near the summits and, widening and gaining strength by descent, carried everything in its way to the foot of the mountain. Wherever these slides have been, sufficient soil to support vegitation was not left, consequently the surface for the whole length and breadth of the avalanche is destitute of twig or tree, presenting a very singular appearance in contrast with the dark forrests and grey rocks which cover the mountains sides. About a mile south of Mount Washington is a little pond 40 or SO feet in length called the "Lake of the Clouds" from which issues a riverlet forming the most beautiful cascades that the mind can conceive; for thousands of feet this little stream leaps from rock to rock down the mountain untill lost in the dark forrests at the base. Here is the source of the Lower Amonoosick. The White Mountains are the most elevated of that range which extends the whole length of the U.S. from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico. This part of the ridge runs N.E. and S.W., a distance of between 30 and 40 miles comprehending about a dozen peaks of considerable note --amongst which are The Hay Stack or Mount La Fayette, Pleasant, Adams, Jefferson, Madison, Munroe, Washington and Quincy. Their heights above the Connecticut River are as follows: Washington 5350 ft, Jefferson 5261, Adams 5183, Madison 5039, Munroe 4932, Quincy 4470. 
The White Mountains have been objects of interest to the people ever 
since the first settlement of the country altho' but little visited till within a 
few years, on account of the roughness of the roads and want of proper 
accomadations. They are the first land visible at sea and are frequently 
mistaken for clouds by reason of their whiteness at some seasons of the 
year. They may be seen 80 miles on the south and southeast sides. 
The Indians called them Agiocochook and had the tradition that the 
world was once destroyed by a flood which a Pow[w]ow foreseeing, fled 
with his wife to this mountain, where he remained in safety till it had 
subsided and that afterwards the earth was repeopled by him and his 
wife. 
They supposed the summit was inhabited by spirits and held it in 
sacred veneration not only fearing to visit it but also dissuading others 
from the like attempt. No traveller nevertheless has discovered anything.
the worse than a noble prospect and sky serene. On the S.E. side the 
Atlantic Ocean is visible, the nearest part of which is 65 miles in a direct 
line. On the W. and N. the prospect is bounded by the high lands which . 
seperate the waters of the Connecticut and Andriscoggin from those of 
Lake Champlain and St. Lawrence. On the South it extends to the southern.
most mountains of New Hampshire, comprehending a view of Lake 
Wini piseogee. 
The snow is said to lie longer on the south side of the mountain than 
on the N. or W. side because a much larger body of it is lodged in the 
gullies on the S. and E. sides, being driven over by the N. and N.W. winds. 
These mountains are the almanack of the people who dwell near them, 
because by the ascent and attraction of vapours they predict the weather. 
If a cloud hang upon the peaks either before or after a storm, accompanied 
by roarings of the mountain, rain is sure to follow. 
If, as Philosophers tell us, mountainous districts abound cheifly in 
springs and rivers, it might be supposed that the White Mountains would 
be a very fruitful source, as in fact they are. Within the compass of one 
day's travel are the waters of the Connecticut, Amonoosick, Andriscoggin, 
Saco and Merimack rivers, some of which empty into the ocean hundreds 
of miles from each other --the Con[necti] cut in the State of the same name, áthe Merimack in Massachusetts and the Saco in Maine. 
All the streams found among these mountains are perfectly limpid 
and cold, abounding with the trout but, as they wander further away and 
receive tributaries from swamps, these waters become black and impure. I 
observed [that] the Pemigewasset, where it rises among the mountains of 
Franconia, is clear as chrystal but as I followed it down from its source it 
lost its pureness by degrees till at last a broad deep river rolls its turbid 
water along. 

I never during my whole life saw so many beautiful and sublime sights in one hour. Were I a poet, I think the White Hills should be my Parnassus and the "Lake of the Clouds" my Castalian forrest. My imagination, with my feet, should wander over all these romantic beauties. I would people every grove with Dryads and every fountain and summit should have a presiding nymph and divinity. 
At 1/2 past 12 o'clock we commenced descent, but I took my leave of the enchanting spot with regret. 
The clouds, which at first hung upon the mountain, had cleared away and left an unclouded sky, but my companions, determined to proceed upon their journey in the afternoon, would listen neither to my entreaties nor the enticements of nature to enjoy a little longer her unrivalled beauties. The labor of descending is double that of ascending altho' we accomplished it in nearly half the time. 
The "Temperance Man," receiving a wound by a fall, poured the contents of the brandy bottle very plenteously upon his bruises to the great satisfaction of the "Temperate" drinker, who improved the circumstance for our merriment. 
Upon the whole, altho' the ascent of Mount Washington [isl a very fatiguing undertaking, the visitor is amply repaid for all his toil. 
"Ethan" gratified his company with the music of Echo as well as with that of his daughter. Upon a hill near his house is stationed a swivel which in the edge of the evening he discharges towards the mountains. The report is reverberated 5 times distinctly and then dies away like the roaring of distant thunder. The same effect is produced upon the sound of a long trumpet with all its variations. We can very easily conceive how the superstitious minds and inventive geniuses of the Antients shaped Echo into a Nymph whose loquacity displeased Jupiter because she published his amours. But Juno, who had considerable of the question-asking spirit of the Yankee, made an agreeable companion of Echo who never asked -only answered in questions. 
All I will say of the "Notch" is this: that I did not visit it. 
Franconia Iron Works Tuesday July 29, 1834. Franconia Irons Works are eighteen miles S. W. from "Ethan's" and bear about the same relative situation to Mount Lafayette and Franconia Notch that "Ethan's" bears to Mount Washington and the "Notch of the White Hills." 
Through these two narrow passes, which seem to have been left designedly by nature, lay the two great thoroughfares by which all the commercial relations between greater parts of Vermont and Portland and Boston are kept up. The "Works" are situated in a beautiful valley at the confluence of two small streams which take their rise in the mountains and fall into the Amonoosick. 

The valley is bounded on the east by the White Mountains and on every other side by high hills whose sloping sides are tilled by the industrious husbandman. 
At these "Iron Works" bar-and jug-iron is manufactured together with all kinds of ware, stoves &c. of a quality superior to almost any in the country. 
The bar iron is chiefly noted for its ductility and malleability and not only finds a ready market but a good price. The ore from which this iron is manufactured is dug about three miles from the factory in quantities to supply the "great forge" three or four months annually. The ore, after being blown from the mine and undergoing some operations, is thrown into an immense forge where an intense heat is continually kept up. Here the ore is ámelted, the pure iron runs out at holes made in the bottom of the forge whilst the extraneous substances swim upon the melted metal and are taken away. The iron after being molded into "pigs" is either made into cast-iron ware or the bar-iron which requires that the "pigs" should pass through other furnaces before they become pure enough to be drawn out into bars. This latter operation is performed by heavy trip-hammers driven by water power. The huge furnace is used only in winter months when it consumes from five to seven bushels of coal daily. Iron mines of Franconia and in fact the whole country about the White Mountains are rich in valuable minerals. 
Not long since a gentleman from New York in three weeks collected specimens to the weight of two and a half tons which he transported to that city. Considerable quantities of copper ore have been found in this town although not sufficient to warrant the erection of extensive works. 
Thornton Wednesday July 30, 1834. I cannot say that I have spent a pleasanter day since I left Schenectady although on foot the whole time and exposed to the almost insufferable heat of the sun. I arose this morning long before he looked forth from the chambers of the East and, stowing some five or six pounds of minerals in my pack, started for Franconia Notch, which commences about three miles east from the "Iron Works" at a height of 
1028 feet above the site of the same. The distance from the house at the "top of the Notch" to the first house at the bottom is eight miles without a solitary habitation intermediate. It was early in the day when I entered the Notch and, halting a moment to rest myself and take a last view of the valley, I was gratified with a charming prospect: the rich flood of light which Sol poured over Mount Lafayette on the left and a summit of lesser note upon the right. The clack of the distant forge-hammers and the coolness which was brought in upon the wings of the morning contributed 

to heighten the splendor of the scene. About three miles from the top of the Notch a foot path branches off to the left leading to the summit of Mount Lafayette. 
The point where the path commences is six miles from Franconia Iron Works and the length of it from the road to the top of the mountain is three miles. Throughout this distance it is almost uniformly steep. 
The ascent for the distance of two miles is through a thick forest of hemlock and spruce &c. Higher up, the mountain is entirely encompassed with a zone about a half mile in width covered with stunted trees, chiefly hemlock and spruce. Above the upper edge of this zone, which is about half a mile from the top, trees and shrubs disappear. The summit is composed chiefly of bare rocks partly in large masses and partly broken into small pieces. The view from the top is exceedingly picturesque and magnificent. 
Although it is not so extensive as that from Mount Washington yet, owing to the more advantageous situation of Mt. Lafayette being more central as it respects this mountainous region, it is not inferior to it in either beauty or grandeur. The view to the northeast, east, south and southwest, is one panorama of mountain scenery presenting more than fifty summits which, when viewed from this elevation, do not appear to differ greatly in height. Some of these mountains are covered with verdure to the top, while the summits of others are composed of naked rocks; and down the sides of many of them may be seen slides or avalanches of earth, rocks and trees more or less extensive, which serve to diversify the scene. 
The road through this Notch is a giant natural arcade arched above by the spreading branches of the forest trees which not only afford a delightful shade but a rich display of rural magnificence. It is bordered on either hand by lofty mountains whose almost perpendicular sides are clothed with dark forests even to their summits. 
About three miles from the "Top of the Notch," close by the roadside, is a niche nearly a mile in diameter scooped out at the base of Mount Lafayette by the hand of nature as if on purpose for a peaceful little lake which reposes therein. Its cold and limpid waters, which are elevated nearly a thousand feet above the valley at Franconia Iron Works, are the source of one of those streams that unite there and fall into the Ammonoosick. Further down the Notch is still anotherlake resembling this in size and situation only on the other side of the way and elevated nine hundred feet above the site of Franconia. 
Its placid bosom is cunningly sheltered from every rude wind by large, insurmountable barriers whose heads dwell amongst the watery clouds. On its west side is a precipice a thousand feet high upon the face of which near the summit is the outlines of a man's face familiarly known by the name of''Old Man of the Mountain." When viewed from the north end of the lake, the features are astonishingly correct and well defined. The great height and bold relief of the profile, combined with the wildness of the scenery, make this lusus naturae one the most remarkable curiosities among these mountains. 
The last mentioned lake is the source of the Pemigewasset River which, uniting with Winnepiseogee at Franklin, forms the Merrimack. Its outlet is a considerable stream which, gathering strength as it passes along, becomes at length a mad torrent dashing down the rocks in prettv cascades or foaming along its pebbly bottom. At the distance oftwo miles from its source is another curiosity called the "Great Basin" and the last of any consequence which I shall mention. It is what its name indicates, a great basin about twenty feet in diameter, fifteen deep at the lower and 
á twenty at the upper edge, and worn out of the solid rock with as much symetry of form and perfection of workmanship as the most perfect model of art. The whole brook is poured into this cavity from above, in such a manner as to keep the water and pebbles which it contains in a continual motion; by a contrivance so simple this work of ages has been admirably accomplished. So perfectly pure and limpid is the water that its depth deceives the eye of the observer, and it was not till I had fathomed it with a pole some twelve feet in length that I could believe it contained more than three feet. Esqr. Rogers of Plymouth related to me a very amusing anecdote occasioned by this deception. He says [that] during the surveys in these parts anterior to the design of a State Map, Philip Carrigan Esqr., who was the engineer and author, came to the basin one hot summer's day and, being much overcome with the heat, proposed to a friend accompanying to refresh themselves by a bath. His companion assented provided he would first make the trial. 

The fat squire forthwith divested himself of his clothes and, clapping his 
flanks like a dunghill cock, leaped into the water which he had supposed to 
be very shallow. 
He immediately disappeared "head and ears" and as soon rose again to the surface, puffing and blowing like a sea horse, and after much tumbling and beating the water he reached the edge where he was revived by his friend, nearly frozen if not quite frightened to death. .
The "Pulpit and Basin," greater than the "Great Basin," are other curiosities of this curious "Notch," but not worthy of particular attention. Before closing my day's walk, the Pemigewasset, which I have just been . describing as a mad brook, widened into a broad river meandering through a wide strip of rich intervale land clothed in all the beauties of a plentiful harvest, so rapid is the increase of rivers in a mountainous country. Thursday July 31, 1834. James Mason, whose house I am now visiting, was made my uncle by marrying my father's sister. His family is a complete specimen of country life. They are kind-hearted, rustic, simple and unvarnished in their manners, frugal and industrious. Their dwelling, situ.ated three miles from the Pem[igewasset]t River and fifteen from Plymouth, is completely surrounded by high hills except on the south towards Plymouth. In this sunny retreat, secluded from all the vexations of a city, tilling a grateful soil yielding all the substantials of life blessed with a pure air and healthy climate, for what besides may they tax nature? Surely nothing. 
Friday Aug[ust] 1, 1834. Content should be the portion of their happy lot, yet in fact I find they have no less dissatisfaction with their present condition, and the blessings which attend it, than the disgusted votaries of the world who have been behind the scenery and viewed all the filth and smut which lie concealed by the splendid gilding of a fashionable life. 
Like Rasselas in the happy valley, they wish to penetrate the barriers of their native mountains and see what lies beyond; they fancy all the world to be bright except their dark spot. 
Caleb and Andrew left their father's house several years since to realize their bright visions of fortune and pleasure among the busy haunts of men; the former now resides in Boston, a thoughtless and unstable youth, the latter in his grave. He sickened away from home and returned 

to die amongst his friends, confessing that there was no place so dear as 
his paternal roof, no scenes more lovely than those of boyhood. 
But what power ha[ve] the admonitions of the dead upon the actions of the living! Andrews dying acknowledgements fall upon the ears of his younger brothers like idle tales; they only wait with impatience to fill up the long years of their minority when they will break from the restraints of parental authority and go to see the world. 
Saturday August 2, 1834. Wherever 1have been on my travels thus far I have been told that the summer is uncommonly hot and that vegitation á faints for want of water. 
However the husbandman need not complain so long as nature yields her increase no less bountifully than she will in the coming harvest. I have been pleased with the activity that prevails in my Uncles family, which may be taken as a pat[t]ern of thrifty industry. 
Long before the "morn in russet mantle clad /Walks o'er the dew of yon' high eastern hill," everyone is moving in the house and, by a systematic division of labour among the whole family, affairs move on in regular order thro'out the day both within and out doors. The merry hum of the spinning wheel and the clack of the loom is ceaseless. Some keep the dairy, others card the wool, whilst the busy housewife prepares the frugal meal. Even the little ones are not idle; they wind thread upon bobbins for the weaver, pick up chips and run on errands. 
The male portion of the family is no less busy. Their sounding sythes keep time with the spinning wheel and labor becomes a delight and industry a constant virtue. 
Sunday August 3, 1834. Travelled 3 miles to church where I heard an old proser in every way equal to him whom I spoke of last sabbath. His auditors were "few and far between" and listened very attentively while awake, save a company of young sinners, some score or more of buxom girls and country bumpkins, who ogled each other during the whole service. 
The parson prayed till "all knees were weary" and read a preachment of corresponding length. I ought not to criticize however either parson, people or chapel, for I am hardly out of the confines of the White Hills. All the "pomp and circumstance" of a city cannot live in a wilderness, neither the same taste of architecture, the same brilliancy of talents and the like intemperance in fashion. 
Those worshippers whom I have seen at the altar of devotion today are the "bone and sinew" of the land, the country's support, the hope of the church. It is in the virtue of the agricultural part of community which is by far the largest portion that we can depend for the perpetuity of our 

free institutions; the commons of cities we know will be vi[s]cious and 
seditious. 
New Hampton 
Monday August 4, 1834. The traveller in passing down the Pemigewasset 
from its source sees every degree of improvement from the wildness of 
untamed nature to the richness and beauty of the broad field and fruitful 
valley laden with the yellow harvest product of the husbandman's toil. As 
much as he was astonished at the stupendous works of nature among the 
White Hills so must now he admire her in her less magnificent but more 
useful form, subdued and tamed by the hand of the hardy cultivator. In 
her grandeur she is imposing but in a cultivated state her beauties 
"content the eye," delight the heart and throw a charm into rural life that 
has drawn forth the poet's eulogy even from antient days. 
From Thornton on I passed into Campton and, crossing the river upon whose bank I had a delightful walk, entered the village of Plymouth early in the day. 
This is the cheif town of Grafton County and contains a court house, bank, 3 churches and other appendages of a neat country village. In no place has the "temperance reform" produced more happy effects and more lasting benefits. At the commencement of the [na?]tion it was a spot infected beyond measure with the disease of intemperance and cursed with all its moral and corporal evils. It was a great liquor mart to which the people of the adjacent country resorted for their customary supply. Now the men of Plymouth do not permit a drop to be vended in town, and have become as distinguished among the friends of abstinence as formerly they were noted for the opposite vice. I have seen no village more neat, thrifty and peaceful in appearance nor yet one more liberal and ready in every good cause. 
Whilst I stopped a few hours to avoid the heat of the day l formed a slight acquaintance with a gentleman who introduced me to Esq. Rogers, one of the first lawyers in the county, a Christian and philanthropist. 
Our conversation turned upon the abolition of slavery, a subject which he has ably advocated both in his own village and in the convention lately called at Concord. After taking dinner with my new friend proceed[ed] upon the way, passing thro' Holderness to New Hampton. 
The first sight of the spot where I had once spent so many happy hours revived all the bright scenes of my schoolboy days, my early friend-á ships and our juvenile sports. Imagination, disdaining the flight of time, wandered backward and peopled the halls consecrated to science with my former companions in study whose familiar faces I have not seen this many a day. 

[next section too light to read] 
.. .introduced me to every rock as an old acquainance and to every grove as the scene of some boyish sport. Nothing was wanting. Everything conspired to make my dream a happy one but the sad thought of its unreality. Among the whole number who now attend the institution I could recognize no one of my old schoolmates. All are scattered. 
The academic buildings and grounds, at the first not very elegant, have become less so by time and negligence, and altho' to a superficial observer such a want of neatness would be sure indications of rapid decay yet I am told [that] the Institution under its present Superintendent has lost none of former character and liberal patronage. 
It has been in operation about 15 years. In its infancy it had many difficulties to struggle thro' and until thrown upon the care of the Baptist 
State Convention afforded few hopes of success. John K. Simpson Esq. of Boston has been benefactor.  its  cheif  patron  and  
Concord Tuesday August 5, 1834. Passed thro' Sandbornton, Canterbery by a road which, being familiar, presented few objects worthy of note.  Northfield little change  and and  

The excessive heat which we have experienced this summer is almost unprecedented in the remembrance of our oldest people. 
The Merimac has shrunk to almost half its ordinary size; I saw several boys fording it with all apparent ease áimmediately above the bridge and undertook the same feat with success. 
Wednesday August 6, 1834. Concord altho' not the largest is perhaps the most important town in the state, being not only the Capital but by its central situation a place of considerable business. By means of the Merimack River -and Middlesex Canal, a "water communication is made between it and Boston by which both [the] interior of New Hampshire and a large portion of Vt. are supplied with their foreign goods. 
The immense travel from the interior to Boston through Concord makes it lively and business-like at [all] seasons of the year and I question whether any village in the country of its size can boast of so many spacious and beautiful hotels for the accomadation of travellers as this. The 3 best houses are the "Phoenix" Hotel kept [by] Hutchins, the "Eagle Coffee House" by Lincoln and the American Hotel by Gass. 
Here are places of worship, 2 banks, 5 or 6 printing offices and as many periodical publications, a Town House and the Capital. The latter building cost above 100,000 dollars and is is built of beautiful granite which was hewn in a quarry near at hand and surrounded by a spacious yard of some acres enclosed by an iron fence. There is no display of ornaments about the building. It is a plain, simple edifice with 2 wings, surmounted by a cup[o]l[a] and a gilded eagle in the act of mounting upon its wings. The Senate and Representatives Chambers are in the [second?] story; the front [is] occupied by offices of State. 

The people of Concord are intelligent, the society polite and refined. Having been 2 1/2 years absent from the village, its improvements are very conspicuous. Many large buildings have been constructed and several new streets laid out; in fact the whole face of things is altered for the better. I spent the day pleasantly with my old friends. 
Chichester Thursday August 7, 1834. Once more at my grandfather's house, a spot rendered familiar by the remembrance of my schoolboy days and boyish sports. The old folks are as well as the infirmity of age will permit them and the same in outward appearance as when I last saw their venerable forms; nevertheless their tottering limbs anci furrowed brows speak loud of the works of time. 
His insidious work, which is often unseen and unfelt in the multiplicity of human woes, comes not the less certain. They are the remains of another age, the children of a former generation; they have witnessed the changes of time, the vicissitudes of fortune, great revolutions and the birth of a mighty republic. Such venerable reliques are worthy of respect. When an aged man entered the theatre, the Spartan youth rose to a man to give him a seat. He pleasantly replied, "The Athenians know politeness but the Spartans practice it." 
It is not unseldom that I am reminded of this anecdote by exhibitions of the Athenian manners towards aged people. It is a barbarity worthy only of uncivilized men. 
Friday August 8,-1834. The dearest recollections of my childhood cluster around my grandfather's house which has ever been my home. To my last breath, mv mind will wander back to their comfortable fireside and delight to dwell upon that happiest portion of my existence spent under the tuition of my Grandparents. The realities of those days now whilst I write seem like dreams of the last night. I can see my boyish companions, our plays and frolics, our quarrels and our reconciliations. The school where received the rudiments of my humble knowledge and the stern god who presided there, whose rod was a terror to every evil doer. 
I remember with distinctness the first day I ever attended a school and the proud satisfaction I felt when from reading my A,B,C's, I passed to my AB abs. At this time Father bought me a primer for encouragement. No boy ever disrelished the duties and confinement of a school more than I; many is the time when my uncle has followed me with a stick to the schoolhouse door and delivered me into the hands of the master, so loath was I to go. Happily age wore away this settled dislike or to this day I should not have known my letters. 

Saturday August 9, 1834. Agriculture is and ever must be the cheif business of the people of New Hampshire so long as they attend to their true interests. Being an inland state and having but small extent of seacoast, navigation and commerce must be left to neighbours who have more seaboard. 
The granite state can never become great and rich indeed like some.other states. Her bleak hills and stony soil are uninviting, her increase both in population and wealth must [be] and has been slow; nevertheless, the hardy industry of her inhabitants, their morality, intelligence and virtue are not surpassed perhaps by any of the confederate states. 
Sunday August 10, 1834. Rainy. Attended no church. How wretchedly passes a sabbath where is no public worship. It seems an age. This deprivation of religious privilege[s] teaches me how to value them when within my enjoyment. One half of the world know not how the other half live. Dwelling within hallowed influence of the 7 evangelical churches of Schenectady and worshiping in either according to my choice, but seldom [do 1] think that many a town have not one sermon for months, that some people never heard one during a long life and probably never will unless reached by the persevering missionary. 
Monday August 11, 1834. Visited the "Pine Ground." It remains unaltered save by such slight changes as new occupants would naturally effect to make things accord with their own particular taste and convenience. The old house built some SO or 60 years ago by my grandfather, in which I first saw light, has been taken down and erected in another place, the willow trees which stood before it felled and the very spot planted with corn. I am sorry that nothing could be left to mark the spot of my birth, not even the antient trees. This in[n]ovation shows that a strangers heart does not feel as mine. What profit would those willows have been to him! They might have kept the sun from his corn, one peck of which is more valuable in his estimation than the beauty of a 1000 such. 
How active is the mind in such circumstances as mine in conjuring up the scenes of the past! How apt in connecting every object of my birthplace with the remembrance of some event in which I was an actor! 

Bright and sunshiney days of my childhood ! They bring pleasure commingled wilh sorrow. Their recollection partakes much of the aspect of human life, being chequered with good and evil together. Upon this incident of my former days I delight to dwell; upon that, the mind turn[s] with disgust. Some associations are agreeable, others disagreeable; on the whole I must say that this spot never had the charms of home nor enkindled those happy emotions which should be felt by every man in the contemplation of his boyish days and the place of his nativity. The cause of this anomaly I find here in the total want of good society and polished manners or more properly in the ignorance and coarseness of the people and in the destitution of literacy and religious advantages without which life is intolerable. 
Another cause which has operated latterly is the pecuniary embar[r]as[s]ments of my father, the consequential falling off of many pretended friends, the villainy and deception of others who have felt his kindness. My mind has becomed tinged with the character of those events and confers their unpleasantness to the locality where they transpired. 
In the hospitable family of Mr. Chase I found a very kind reception. 
Pittsfield Tuesday August 12, 1834. The moral condition of my native town has undergone a manifest change for tne better within 3 years; the people are growing more religious and temperate. 
A very pretty Methodist chapel has been built near the center of the town, a church constituted and a minister provided. 
The congregational society which thought themselves formerly too poor to hire a preacher have now weekly service in their house and in addition have purchased a parsonage house. The temperance reform which has been the harbinger of this happy state of things now claims the most respectable people of the town as its friends andsupporters. So far do they now carry their sense of duty in this subject that the members of temperance societies do not even trade where rum is sold but oblige themselves to forego many conveniences to patronize the temperance merchant. 
Chichester has ever been a half century behind the age in every institution whose object is to improve and emeliorate tne condition of mankind, but the activity which the people now exhibit to redeem the lost time is commendable. The "Pine Ground" has now a rum shop and a temperance store; which shall prosper it is for the community to decide. 
Chichester August 13, 1834. Pittsfield village owes much of its importance to a cotton 
4-98 
factory which [has] been in operation several years employing several hundred girls and men. There are 2 churches, an ccademy and several stores with 500 or 600 inhabitants. 
Visited Uncle and Aunt Crain . Found them well but mourning the death of an only child, a boy 18 months old, who was accidently scalded to death. Their first was a girl; she died about 2 years since. I know not that my heart has been toutched so sensibly this many a day as it was with the silent grief of my aunt for her child and her resignation to the afflicting event. 
Here I saw one of those principles of human nature of which Lord Karnes speaks, fully illustrated. Our passions and affections are often transfer[r]ed from an individual to whatever he is connected with, for instance, to his friends or property. 
So my aunt transfered her affection from her child to his cloth[e]s and playthings, giving me a complete history of each article which she preserves with sacred respect to his memory. That love which a mother has for child is indeed stronger than death, it burns at the remembrance of her offspring and cannot be conquered even by the base sin of ingratitude. 
I know of nothing more lovely among the friendships of life, than the mutual love between parents and children. I parted with my aunt this afternoon with an aching heart. Having always been a member of our family and being particularly attached to me as if with a sister's love, it could not be otherwise than that we should seperate with sorrow especially at this time of affliction when sympathy is cheifly agreeable to the sensitive mind. 
Called upon the family of Deacon Tilton, one of the most pious and upright men in the town, a pillar of the church and active supporter of every good cause. 
Thursday August 14, 1834. Of all employments visiting is most irksome to me and for that reason I make my calls as short as possible. Returned to Grandfather's from visiting my friends in Chichester. 
Allenstown Friday August 15, 1834. Uncle Samuel was kind enough to take me to Uncle Salters in his waggon. To the person who is fond of good cheer this visiting offers many inducements. His country friends pride themselves in displaying the variety, abundance and richness of these good things by loading their tables with the best that the house affords and it is considered a sure mark of their good will to heap up your plate until it rivals a pyramid in size and to urge you to eat till you are forced to forbear for the want of room to deposit more. 
4-99 
Saturday August 16, 1834. Made hay. Talked common talk. Eat supper and went to bed. 
Sunday August 17, 1834. Read Watts Psalms and Hymn's, smoked "long nines," wrote in my diary, mightily bored in having no church service, answered 1001 questions &c &c &c ... "too numerous to mention." 
Durham Monday August 18, 1834. Passed thro' Deerfield, Epping and New Market to Durham, meeting nothing of any note except 2 or 3 country villages, the first of which is called "Epping Corner" because built at the place where 2 roads intersect. It is 8 miles from Exeter and contains 2 or 3 stores, a church, post office, &c., which means a grog tavern. 
New Market upon the Lamprey river is a much more respectable village both in size and business. 
It has come to its present importance within a few years, cheifly thro' the aid of its cotton manufactories, which are carried on to very good advantage, being at the head of tide navigation, only 12 miles from Portsmouth. 
Three large stove factories are now in operation employing probably from 500 to 600 persons, most of whom are girls. The exterior of these buildings appear[s] dark and gloomy but not altogether disagreeable withal, because they combine strength and durability with their prison-like appearance. 
I saw several handsome churches which I took to be a sure indication of prosperity. Durham has seen far better days; it is now [in] the retrograde, and that liveliness and activity which was once seen here is succeeded by a dead calm. This came about thro' the failure of one man, Mr. Coe, who did a large business in building ships, employed many men and kept a large store. Since his insolvency, no effort has been put to revive the business. The ship carpenters have removed and the yard is closed. Here are 2 chapels, one owned by a combined society of Baptists and Methodists, the other by the Congregationalists. 
Somersworth Tuesday August 19, 1834. Found Uncle and Aunt Smart under a similar affliction to that of Aunt Crain, not indeed mourning the death of a boy but in dayly expectation of that event. They likewise have lost a promising girl 2 or 3 years old --the very age at which children become most dear to their parents. Aunt Smart has been effectually taught by this dispensation of Providence not to bundle up her soul with any earthly object. She loved her girl as her own life, she doated on her, but when death nipped her 
Joo 
hopes she learned a lesson which she had never learned before and was little able to bear. My visit under such circumstances is of course rendered unpleasant. 
Great Falls 
Wednesday August 20, 1834. This village, which recieves its name from a great descent of water in the Salmon Falls River, has grown to its present size in the short space of about 10 years. 
Its present site was a complete wilderness of the most forbidding aspect covered with rocks, trees and bogs. The wildness of nature has been subdued and a busy village sprang up as by enchantment, exhibiting a complete triumph of industry over every discouragement. It contains between 2000 and 3000 inhabitants, the cheif of whom depend upon the factories for a livelihood. Five beautiful churches, a large number of shops together with other appendages of a large and prosperous town. 
Four cotton mills have already been built by the company, one of which is 400 ft. in length, besides some hundred dwelling houses; in fact nearly the whole village belongs to them. The propriety of such a monopo.ly may, I think, be questioned even when we regard only the interests of the proprietors, much more if we respect those of the inhabitants. The evils of the thing have already been felt to some degree. 
The error of this policy lies here --in making a whole community of men dependent upon one branch of business which, being fluctuating, must render the state of affairs extremely unstable, whereas wisdom should have taught the owners to encourage emigrants to become citizens by selling them land and favoring all the trades and professions. By these means a permanence would have been imparted both to the population and prosperity of the town. The interests of the citizens and the company 
would then become identified, their dependence being mutual. 
The vast importance which manufactures have in perfecting the independance of a nation by working its own products, supplying the people with articles of domestic manufacture, giving employment to native talent and increasing wealth has got to be a matter of almost universal consent. 
The quantity of cloth "turned out" of these factories in a week I am not able to tell; it must must be very great, however, since the bare carting of the cotton from, and the cloth to, Dover gives employment to a large establishment of horses, waggons and men. To show how transient is the population of these manufactoring villages, I will remark that almost every person whom I knew here a few years since has removed and new ones fill their places. All my old schoolmates and play fellows are gone; and every face which I meet is unfamiliar. 
The unpleasantness of the weather prevented me from noticing all the improvements of the village. I should judge, however, from what I did see that it has not advanced much since I saw it 3 years ago. 





so_, 
Dover Thursday August 21, 1834. Dover, the second town in the state, has a population of about 5000. A settlement was effected here soon after the arrival of the Pilgrims and altho' it progressed slowly at first has been steadily increasing ever since, cheifly thro' its advantages for trade, being at the head of tide navigation and 12 miles from Portsmouth. Latterly, however, like the adjacent village of Great Falls, it has received a new impetus in the attention which has been paid to cotton manufactures. 
The Dover Manu[facturin]g Co. was incorporated with a capital of 2,000,000 dollars and has erected extensive mills which make about the same quantity and quality of cloth as the Great Falls factories; in addition to these, however, they have a large printing establishment for the dyeing of calicoes. 
It is a spectacle worth seeing to view from some conspicuous place the 1000s of men, boys and girls as they pour forth at meal-time from these factories. The streets are lined with them for a considerable distance. The influence of this confinement upon the health of the operatives is visible in their pale and sickly visages, especially among the girls. The female constitution is not sufficiently vigorous to sustain the shocks which it must here receive from the impurity of the air, the constant seclusion, and the fatigue which arises from being continually upon their feet. These are gr[i]ev[i]ous evils which it is wished might be remedied, but how this may be accomplished is indeed more than I know. As to their moral condition it is good so far as I can gather. I mean that gross acts, vice and immorality are no oftener seen among the females of the factories than among the same number in any other employment. 
It would seem otherwise nevertheless; they are unprotected here save by their own virtue and integrity. No parents care watches their wayward steps. No restraints but those of conscience are imposed; tender and unexperienced in the tricks of the world, they are exposed to all its allurements. 
Friday August 22, 1834. Among the public buildings the Congregational and Unitarian Chapels are the best. Besides these are the Methodist, Roman Catholic, Baptist and Friend's Chapels. 

Saw my old friend Dr. Martin. He has taken an office in town, having left the Great Falls for the purpose of closing his long-standing business. He tells me that, during his residence there, which was about 8 years, he has done business to the amount of 30,000 dollars, 6000 of which was charged for the last year --a very handsome property, surely, accumulated in so short time. No profession I presume is more profitable than this. 
Visited the old academy where I formerly studied; at present the building and all about it present evident marks of decay. As to the character of the school, it never stood high in the estimation of the public. 
The Trustees are uninterested in the matter, the teachers have been transient and anxious not so much for the welfare of their pupils and the interests of the academy as to serve out [their] time and pocket their fees. The scholars live generally in town. 
The Cochico River takes its rise from Bow Pond in the town of Barrington. This pond, or lake as it might more properly be called, forms a vast reservoir from which during the summer months the numerous mills at the Falls (Cochico) are supplied. At its outlet a high dam has been constructed by the Cochico Man[ufacturin]g Co. (formerly the Dover Man'g. Co.) which raises the water in the pond several feet above its natural level and by means of a gate is let out in greater or less quantities according to the exigencies of the case. 
Vessels of 100 or 200 tons burden can come no nearer the town than the Bay about 1 mile below on account of a ledge which at low tide is nearly dry. From this place vessels are unladen and their freights brought up in flat bottomed boats. 
It is very strange indeed that an obstruction which might be removed at so small an expense should hinder so long the navigation to a large and flourishing village. 
Among all the improvements and new things in and about the town I find a devilish, black, smutty distil[l]ery from whence the "'old fellow" feeds his followers with the beveridge of Death. 
'I'he merchants of Dover are cheifly supplied with goods from Boston except such heavy articles as salt, fish, mollasses &c., which may be bought as cheap in Portsmouth. The transportation business between Boston and Dover is carried on by a line of vessels consisting of 4 or 5 schooners carrying from 100 to 150 tons each; that between Dover and Portsmouth by a couple of little "Jebakkee" boats which make daily trips to the latter place and back. 
Having spoken for a passage on one of the Boston schooners, I go on board tonight ready to sail in the morning with the ebbing tide. 
Piscataqua River, Portsmouth &c. Saturday August 23, 1834. When I arose this morning our vessel was 

gliding handsomely down the Cochico. Not a sail was set, not a breath of air was stirring. As the majestic sun rolled up his course, dispelling the curling mist which mantled over the smoth surface of the water, he poured a thousand beauties upon the lovely scene, and imparted a delightful softness to the morning air. The river is skirted with groves back of which with a gentle slope rise the broad fields and rich farms with their pretty white cottages. 
As we sailed down, the river gradually widened, and a slight breeze arose just sufficient to make the schooner obey the helm. The market women in their tiny canoes darted by us like arrows; some of their little boats loaded down to the very brim are managed solely by women, others by boys. They go to market with ebb of tide and return with the flood. 
"The Piscataq ua is the only large river whose whole course is in New Hampshire. Its head is a pond in the N.E. corner of Wakefield and its general course thence to the sea is S.S.E. about 40 miles. It divides New Hampshire from York County, Maine and is called Salmonfall River from its head to the lower falls at Berwick, where it assumes the name of Ne.wichawaunock, which it bears till it meets with [the] Cochico River which comes from Dover where both run together in one channel to Hilton's Point where the Western branch meets it. From this junction to the sea, the river is so rapid that it never freezes; the distance is 7 miles and the course generally from S .. to S. E. 
"The western branch is formed by the Swamscot river which comes from Exeter, Winnicot River which comes thro' Greenland, and Lamprey River which divides New Market from Durham. These empty into a bay 4 miles wide called Great Bay. The water in its further progress is contracted into a lesser bay, and then it receives Oyster River which runs thro' Durham and Buck River which comes from Dover and at length meets with the main stream at Hilton's Point. 
"The tide rises in all these bays and branches as far as the lower falls in each river and forms a most rapid current, especially at the season of the freshets when the ebb continues about 2 hours longer than the flood; and were it not for the numerous eddies formed by the indentings of the shore, the ferrieS-would then be impassable. 
"At the lower falls in the several branches of the river are landing places whence lumber and other country produce is transported and vessels or boats from below discharge their lading: so that in each river there is a convenient trading place not more than 12 or 15 miles from Portsmouth; with these isconstant communicationwith every tide. 
Thus the river from its form and the situation of its branches is extremely favorable to the purposes of navigation and trade." At Dover is a high neck of land called "Dove Neck" between the main branch of the Piscataqua and Back River about 2 miles long and half a mile 

wide, rising gently along a fine road and declining on each side like a ship's deck. It commands an extensive and varied prospect of the rivers, bays, adjacent shores, and distant mountains. It has often been admired by travellers as an elegant situation for a city and by military gentlemen for a fortress. The first settlers pitched here, but the trade has long since been removed to Cochico Falls about 4 miles farther up and this beautiful spot is almost deserted of inhabitants. 
Piscataqua River, about 2 miles above and the same below Portsmouth, is narrow, deep and extremely rapid. [In] the intermediate distance it is broad, affording a safe and commodious harbor for ships of any burthen. A better cannot he found in the country. One mile above the town a bridge 23 71 ft. in length has been constructed across to Kittery 
á which, altho' it facilitates land travel, is a very great obstruction to the navigation up the river, because it cannot be passed only at certain times when the tide is favorable. Here our craft lay till near night waiting for wind and tide; in the mean time our little crew and passengers took to the yawl and pulled for town. Portsmouth, the cheif town and only seaport of New Hampshire, is situated upon the south side of Piscataqua River 2 miles from the sea. Its growth has been so slow during many years that, notwithstanding its commercial advantages, it now contains but 8000 inhabitants, owns but little shipping and does nothing comparatively speaking at foreign trade. The general aspect of the town is that of a place whose commerce has declined, whose buildings have decayed and whose whole appearance indicates that it once knew a better state. It might be a profitable question perhaps for the Portsmouth people to solve --why their neighbors Boston, Salem and Portland so much excel them in growth, activity and commerce. Portsmouth is well calculated, so far as natural advantages can go, to become one of the most powerful rivals to Boston this side of 'New York, but her inhabitants have not that public spirit and enterprise which would make them successful competitors. They have too much self interest mixed with all their acts. Their illiberality has spoiled their trade. Country merchants find they can do better in Boston or some other place and, altho' there is not an absolute declension of business, yet the increase is hardly appreciable. The town contains 7 chapels, a custom house, an alms house, an atheneum, an asylum for females and 5 banks, one of which is a branch of the U. S. bank. Opposite the town upon Badger's Island is the U. S. Navy Yard; its building and work make a fine appearance, but for want of time I could not visit them. The ships which have been launched here are the Faulkland 

of 54 guns in 1690; the Bedford-Galley of 32 in 1696; the American of 40 
in 1749; the Raleigh of 32 in 1776; the Ranger of 18 in 1777; the America 
of '74 on the 5th of Nov. 1782, presented to the King of France by the 
Congress of the U.S. At present there are 1 or 2 ships upon the stocks all 
ready for use. 
The wind "breezing up," we got under way about 5 o'clock. The town on the one hand and the navy yard on the other make a very handsome show when viewed from the river. 
At the mouth of the harbor lies Great Island upon which a pretty village is built called New Castle, nearly opposite to which on the south side of the entrance is seen Fort Independence. Upon the N.E. and S.E. points are 2 lighthouses. The main entrance is on the north side of Great Island, between that and Kittery; it has 9 or 10 fathoms and is about one mile wide. "The anchorage is good, the shore is lined with rocks, the harbor is landlocked on all sides and perfectly safe. The tides rise from 1O to 14 fc 
"The other entrance on the south side of Great Island is called Little Harbor; the water here is shoal and the bottom sandy. There are several islands in the river between which and the shores are channels for small vessels and boats. Between the upper end of Great Island and the town of Portsmouth on the southern side of the river is a broad, deep still water called the Pool, where the largest ships may lie very conveniently and securely. In this place the Astraea, a ship of war of 20 years, was burnt on a severe cold morning Jan. 17, 1744. She had been captured from the Spaniards at Porto Bello and was taking in a load of naval stores for a British fleet at Jamaica, when this accident happened. 
"The main channel lies between Pierce's & Leavey's Islands, on each of which batteries of cannon were planted and entrenchments were formed in 1775. Here the stream is contracted to a very narrow passage and the tide is extremely rapid, but the water is deep with a bold rocky shore on each side. The rapidity of the current prevents the river from freezing in the severest winters . ." 
When the sun went down our vessel was bounding lightly over the yielding waves and proudly dashing aside the foaming waters with her prow. 
The shades of night gathered fast around us, one object after another upshore faded from our view till nothing could be seen but the starry heavens above and the rolling ocean beneath. No person who has never taken a short sea voyage can form any idea of the beauty and grandeur of "Old Ocean," the variety of her inhabitants and the richness of her treasure. He may feast his mind with the curiosities of every land but if he has never seen the beauty of the ocean in a calm or her sublimity in the storm nor searched her unfathomable depths, he has not beheld one half of the riches and fulness of the Earth. á Boston 

Sunday August 24, 1834. A more splendid sight cannot well be concieved 
than the sun rising in all his glory from the ocean. 
The weather was very favourable this morning for witnessing such a rare spectacle. The sky was cloudless, the air was clear and warm, and our craft lay almost becalmed upon the smooth bosom of ocean. What circumstances more favorable for a delightful promenade upon deck! During the night we passed the "Isles of Shoals," a cluster of 7 barren, rocky islands which rise above the water 9 miles from the mouth of Portsmouth harbor. Upon Star Island, the largest in the group, is built the little town of Gosport whose inhabitants support themselves principally by fishing and making salt. Here ships find a good road with excellent moorings which in bad weather are quite safe for small craft but not often used by vessels of large size. .
We kept sufficiently near shore during the day to distinguish all the promentories and indentations of the coast with their lighthouses and pretty villages. 
To the right the dim outlines of the far interior mountains were faintly projected upon the deep azure of the sky. 
On the other hand lay the broad green surface of the ocean, bounded only by the limits of the horizon, planted only with a forrest of masts expanding their white wings to catch the light breeze. 
From our mast's head I counted upwards 200 sail of fishing vessels in one group laying to for mackerel. They are very light, sharp-built schooners carrying from 20 to 60 tons and manned with from 5 to a dozen men and boys. 
Arrived off Boston Harbor early in the afternoon but, the wind being ahead, were obliged to adopt the disagreeable alternative either of remaining without or run the chance of beating in against tide. Choose the latter. 
It was sundown before, with a light west breeze, we could just enter the mouth of the harbor and anchor a little above the outer lighthouse. The tide had already began to ebb, the wind died away with the going down of the sun and we had the melancholy satisfaction, if so it may be called, of making up our minds to pass another night on board our little ship. No sooner was the anchor let go than our fishlines were out and the rock cod were coming in over the stern and dancing fandangos upon deck. Altha' this fun was short, it was lively while it lasted. Astern, off the mouth of the harbor, was an animating scene: innumerable vessels, [from] the tall ship to the tiny fishing-boat, were beating up proudly to the harbor and flocking into its entrance like "doves to their windows." Every inch of canvas that could catch the breeze was crowded and all the skill of nautical 
S-09 
tactics was put in requisition to bring them into safe anchorage before 
nightfall.á 
What contributed still more to heighten the interest of the scene, was 
a dark, portentous cloud which came up from the Southwest threatening a 
tremendous storm, accompanied by peals of sullen thunder. As it neared 
us, the wind which was before very light blew a gale. We hauled up 
anchor, and with the main sail only our little craft ploughed thro' the brine 
at an astonishing rate carrying, as sailors say, a white bone in her mouth. 
Soon the rain began to fall in torrents so as entirely to obscure a prospect of the city which lay directly before us, and when the shower passed away the bright shades closed in around us, leaving nothing in its place for the eye to gaze upon but a splendid galaxy of lights. It was about the time of evening service and the solemn church bells were calling the worshipers to their devotions. Their slow and measured tones came over the waters like the voices of invisible beings and fell upon the ear in deep and melting cadence. The changes rung upon the 7 bells of [?] Church were uncommonly fine. Landed upon ***** and found my way after some difficulty to Jennings Hotel, Elm St. 
Monday August 25, 1834. This has been a day of extraordinary interest to the people of the city and its vicinity--on account of the balloon ascension of one Durant, which was witnessed on the Common this afternoon. A more splendid day could not have been desired. The sky was cloudless and the wind quite favorable. At an early hour in the afternoon all the streets leading to Aeronauts Amphitheatre were thronged, the Common was filled with a splendid concourse and Bacon Sts. and the Mill Dam were lined with carriages. At the least calculation there were 30,000 people assembled to witness this novel spectacle, among whom were the beauty and fashion of Boston and people of all classes and conditions. 
At 3 1/2 o'clock the Aeronaut sent up a globe of gas to ascertain the direction of the wind and precisely at 4 mounted his car, cut the cord which bound his balloon and arose amidst the shouts of the thousands of spectators. 
His balloon was made of silk in the form of a flounce flash [?] and besmeared with a yellow varnish to prevent the escape of gas. Below was his little car or wicker basket, attached to the balloon by cords. From this the venturesome fellow waved an American flag and politely bowed to the congregation untill he had attained a vast height. At first he took a westerly direction towards Cambridge but, having entered a counter current, was brought back again over the city. He then descended and was borne again over Cambridge where he landed about 1 (?) miles from the City. 
This is justly considered one of the most perfect exhibitions of 

aeronaut triumphs of art over nature that has ever been witnessed in 
America. 
Taking into consideration too the clearness and serenity of the day -.
the enthusiasm of the multitude --the beauty of the balloon and the ease 
with which the aerial sailor managed it --together with the thrilling 
interest awakened for the fearless man who was suspended 8 or 10 
thousand feet above our heads by an apparatus frail as a cobweb--and no 
one who has never witnessed such a spectacle can adequately judge of the 
effect. During his ascension he threw out a rabbit with a parachute which 
descended in safety. 
To pass away the evening and please a friend I attended a concert of music given by Signor and Signora Somebody at the Masonic Temple, assisted by several vocal performers of Tremont Theatre together [with] the orchestra --a few songs, among which was this: "So brightly breaks the morning." The evenings entertainment was a "tremendous bo're," at least with regard to myself whci, altho' confessedly wanting in musical taste, must be allowed to say again what I have somewhere before said, modern music consists cheifly in tricks and sl[e]ights of hand. 
Music is a sister of poetry and that which is so often said of the latter will apply with much truth to the former, "The musician is born, not made." This theory, which many teachers advocate, that all may sing is good. So may all be poetasters, but to excell like Handel in music nature must do as much for a man as she did for Milton, who was preeminent in poetry. But our modern songsters and songstresses practically hold that the musician is made; thereby conflicting with the noble science of Phrenology and totally annihilating the bump of tune. 
Whence originates their disgusting affectation, and artifices to raise an effect, such a rolling [of] the eyes, baring the bosom, tossing the head, cutting and sawing the air with their hands, distending their jaws, yelling, screaching and ventrilaquising! Our old t[un]es are under modern hands so tortured and abused by variations and fashionable performance that some shreds or patches of their former melody barely remain. 
Tuesday August-26, 1834. Boston dates its origin from the civil and religious persecutions under the reigns of Queen Elizabeth, King James the First and Charles 2d. The self-devotion which that little band exhibited who landed at Plymouth, prizing the uncertain chance for life with free.dom of thought and action above the endearments of a native land under oppressive laws, forms one of the most striking examples of love of liberty which has ever been recorded. 
The same enthusiastic love of freedom, the same jealousy over their rights, the same sobriety and [intell]igence still characterize their decendents. 
SI\ 
The Bostonians are genuine examples of the pure Yankee character, being a moral, religious, enterprizing and educated people beyond any other community in the Confederate States. The number and efficiency of their benevolent and literary Institutions are confessedly preeminent. 
If they are money-lovers, as all their southern neighbors assert, they are also public spirited and ready for any good work; if they are rich and increased in goods, they are not the less liberal and generous hearted. The list of their charities is large, and the report of the[ir] beneficence is thro'out all the country. 
Whatever is elegant in refined society and whatever wealth in the hands of a liberal and enlightened people can do may be found in Boston. Indeed I question whether a more desirable city residence can be found in the world. T,he present inhabitants possess much of the spirit of the old Puritan Fathers. 'The stamp of their character is visible upon the whole face of society. 
The city is built upon a peninsula of inconsiderable extent connected to the mainland on the south by Roxbury Neck. The original name given by the early settlers was Trimountain which was afterwards exchanged for the present, in honor of the Rev. Mr. Cotton, one of the first ministers of the colony and native of Boston, Eng. The primitive name is still preserved in the word Tremount by which a street, hotel and theatre are called. The population of Boston has had a steady, but not rapid, increase and at present amounts to about 60,000, exclusive of Charlestown. Like most other old cities which were built without any predesigned plan, its streets are irregular and sometimes narrow, altho' modern improvement is gradually reforming these defects. 
Washington and Hanover are the principal streets. These are the baza[a]rs in the city and from morning till late in the evening are crowded with a busy multitude. 
The architecture of Boston, both in its public edifices and private mansions, exhibits good taste in the design and nice skill in the executions. The former are cheifly constructed of the Quincy Granite, the latter of brick. A few years has wrought a very material change in the external appearance and oomfort of the city by the substitution of elegant brick and granite houses for those old uncouth wooden dwellings which were built by the older inhabitants. 
The State House, which stands upon the most elevated spot, is the first object which meets the eye of the traveller in approaching the city either from sea or land. I know not for what reason so splendid a building is constructed of bricks unless, at the time of its erection, the celebrated Quincy Quarry was undiscovered. The front of the main body is ornamented with columns resting upon a high basement which consists of many pieces of rustic work with arches. The pediment extends along the whole front. Over the whole rises a beautiful dome surmounted by a lan.tern from which an extensive and diversified prospect may be had of the surrounding country and harbor. From either side of the main building project 2 wings which as they are inferior both in height and ornament and recede a little from the front do not lessen the effect which the principal facade was designed to raise. 

The only fault which from a hasty inspection I should be inclined to rate is the rustic base supporting the order. Perhaps it is too high and conspicuous for so inferior a member. 
In a niche directly opposite the main entrance is a statue of Washington which cost 15,000 dollars. On Beacon St. near the Capital may still be seen the antient house of John Hancock, Pres[iden]t of the Continental Congress. Other edifices which are worthy the notice of the traveller are: the Custom house, Masonic Temple, Boylston Market, U. ranhges of storesS. Branch Bank, Boylstons City [Hall], Indian[?], Corinthian, Pantheon, Chauncey and Washington Halls, the County and Municipal Court Houses, the Jail, antient Fanueil Hall where the citizens hold their public meetings and the New Market House which was erected a few years since in the neighborhood of Fanueil Hall Market. 
"Extensive rows of granite stores four stories high, constructed after the best model, bound this newly perfected enterprise. Between these 2 ranges of stores stands the new Market House at the distance of 102 ft. from those on the south side and 65 from the north. The centre part of the building is 74 [by] 55 ft., having a hall in the second story. The wings are each 2 31 ft. long by 5O ft.. wide and 2 stories high. They have each a portico of 4 columns 23 ft. high, the[ir] shafts of granite in a single peice. 'The construction of the whole is of hammered granite of a uniform color. 
"Boston contains 50 houses for public worship, most of which are large and elegant. Of these Trinity Church in Summer St., a Gothic Chapel with a castellated tower, is the most splendid in its finish and decorations. It is constructed of rough unhammered granite and cost above $100,000." Dr. Potter of Union College was formerly Rector over this Church. 
Tremont*, the principal theatre in the city, is a beautiful peice of architecture, the~facade [of] which is of the Ionic order upon a base 17 feet high, has 4 pilasters supporting an entablature and pediment. 
*The Federal St. Theatre is now rented for a church. 
(March 20 1835) 
The front is of Hallowell and Quincy Granite nicely wrought and joined, the rest is built of brick. It is 135 ft. long and 80 wide and was erected in 1827 at an expence of $120,000. 
Among the hotels of Boston, the Tremont is not only the most superb in the city, but equal to any other in the country. It stands upon Tremont St. immediately opposite the theatre, and being within a few minutes' walk 
S-{3 
of the Common, remote from the business and bustle of the mercantile part of the city, affords an inviting retreat to the traveller. The ample front is constructed of granite, with a portico and pediment. 
The whole number of rooms is 180. 
The celebrated "Common," which has drawn forth encomiums from every traveller who has visited the Capital of the Bay State, lies in the southwestern part of the city. It contains 49 1/4 acres of undulating ground, including the Mall, and is enclosed by a fence and lofty, wide-spreading elms. 
During the summer months, the Common is a delightful promenade, and morning and evening is filled with a happy multitude who come forth out of the dust and din of the city to enjoy the sober stillness and pure air of its healthful groves. 
On all gala-days and occasions of military parade it presents a peculiarly animating scene; from the dome of the State House, every evolution and manoeuvre of the troops, may be minutely surveyed --the little groups of spectators dressed in their best apparel, and the long bazar of carts and tents spread under the venerable elms, where a variety of. little wares and refreshments are offered for sale to the multitude. 
At such times the Common becomes a grand picture, full of life and splendor. 
Upon a knoll nearly in the centre are still seen traces of fortifications thrown up by the British during the Revolutionary War. A few rods north of this is a little sheet of water called Crescent Pond, handsomely curbed with hewn stones; upon its bosom the schoolboys sail their tiny navies and go through in miniature the whole routine of commercial transactions. 
á And last yet not least --the "Old Elm" of Boston Common is well worthy the notice of the traveller. It is one of the original settlers of the city and has bravely withstood not only the war of elements but the desolation of human strife. 
"Boston is well supplied with bookshops and public libraries, among which are the Atheneum, "having 30,000 volumes and 14,000 medals and coins, the Boston Library Society, to which is attached 7000 vols., and the Columbian Library which contains 4500 volumes. The Massachusetts General and the Insane Hospitals and the House of Industry, at South Boston, are benevolent institutions, supported by liberal endowments both from the State and private individuals." 
The scenery about Boston as seen from the dome of the Capital is the most rich and varied to be found in any country. Not less than a dozen villages, numerous country seats, the whole extent of the harbor with its hundred islands, and the ships in the distant offing beyond, lay in [[the] immediate range of distinct vision. Far inland the faint outline of the blue mountains are projected upon the sky; on the other hand, the eye strives in vain to pierce beyond the limits of the horizon and the bare prospect of sky and ocean. 

Wednesday August 27, 1834. The annual Commencement of the ancient and honorable University at Cambridge is an occasion which calls out all the elite and literary of the City. It is the school boy's holiday and regarded with great respect by all classes of people, such is the force of long established custom. 
At an early hour the way leading to Cambridge was thronged with coaches and pedestrians all in their best apparel who were making their way to the place of exhibition. 
The exercises were preceded by the customary display of martial music, a long procession of literary men and graduates, to which succeeded "rag, shag and bobtail." 
President Quincy has all that grace and dignity about him which is particularly imposing on such occasions as this, as well as a certain air of aristocracy and haughtinesswhich seems to imply that he feels well the importance of his office and a jealousy of his dignity. 
How far he is to be blamed in the recent disturbances at the University I will not venture to say, but this one thing is sure: either he is ignorant of human nature or unaccountably weak. By proper management the whole affair might have been amicably settled at the outset but, by dallying with the culprits and attempting to hush up the affair by some weak and unadvised measures, the whole college broke out into a rebellion the effects of which are still visible in the half-prepared exercises of Commencement. 
Several of them were well written and spoken with considerable grace and effect, particularly the Valedictory Address by a candidate on the Second Degree. 
After listening five hours without any intermission to the long and indigestible speeches of some thirty undergraduates and witnessing the ridiculous farce of conferring degrees accompanied with the usual quantity of Latin by the President, we were relieved from this "tremendous bore" by which both our backs and hands ached and our appetites were keenly whetted. 
Everything connected with this institution seems to invite the student to the halls of science. Its agreeable location, its pleasant groves, its splendid library, its able faculty and in fine its venerable halls and classic grounds consecrated by antiquity, and the great men who claim her as their "Alma Mater" are not least among the many attractions of the University. 
After satisfying "as well we might, the keen demands of appetite," took an excursion around the neighboring grounds of the celebrated Mount Auburn. 

They consist of one hundred acres of undulating land thickly covered with forest trees and groves and decorated with walks. The land was first purchased by the Massachusetts Horticultural Society and laid out into several hundred lots. Avenues and paths were cut through and gravelled, the underbrush was cleared, the trees were pruned, terraced walks were made upon the declivities, artificial ponds were dug in valleys and in fine everything that could add to the attractions of this lovely spot was devised and executed by the enterprising proprietors. In 18 .... the ground was consecrated as a cemetery by appropriate exercises in which Judge Story delivered an address to the thousands who were present to witness the interesting ceremony. 
The demand for lots has been such as to leave no doubt respecting the success of the scheme. 
Hannah Adams, the able author of the "History of the Jews," was the first who was buried here. Since then, among other good and distinguished men, it has received the remains of Spurzheim. His monument is what it should be: plain, neat, and chaste, bearing this single inscription "Spurzheim." His epitaph is written elsewhere --on the hearts of those who knew him or have read and adopted his favorite opinions. 
Of all the tokens of respect and remembrance to the memory of the dead which I have ever seen I think the monuments of Mount Auburn exhibit the most beauty and appropriateness. It would seem as if the owners of family burying lots had vied with each other in showing their regard for deceased friends and in making their last house splendid and inviting. 
As to the latter they have certainly succeeded admirably. I know of no spot more enchanting. It is all that wealth and art can make, combined with great natural capabilities and beauty. 
The dead may surely challenge the living to produce more splendid dwellings or a more desirable location than theirs. 
From the top of Mount Auburn, which rises near the center of the grounds, may be had a wide and varied prospect. Here it is proposed to erect a chapel in-which the burial service may be performed. The idea is certainly very appropriate. 
No excursion in the vicinity of Boston is so fashionable as a ride to the cemetery. Its avenues and paths of a pleasant day are literally crowded. 
Here is a melancholy contrast between these living monuments of fashion and folly which sport among the groves of Mount Auburn and the cold marble which rises to commemorate the departed worth. Melancholy however as is the thought, it is far from being unprofitable. The entrance to the grounds is through a magnificent Egyptian gateway with janitories. Here the visitor must leave his carriage as none is allowed to enter. 

Fresh Pond, a beautiful little lake adjacent to Mount Auburn, is a place of great resort for the sportsman and parties of pleasure. 
Thursday August 28, 1834. The public excitement which is created by the burning of the Charlestown Convent on the 11th is unprece[den]ted and only equalled by the baseness of the deed. To attempt a calm and unbiassed statement of facts, both in regard to the burning [and] the causes which led to it, would at this moment be next to an impossibility. So far as I have been able to learn, however, I should trace the perpetration of this outrage to the enmity which has rankled in many breasts against the Convent in consequence of the elopement of Miss Harrison, one of the nuns, and the pretty general impression which followed that they were ill-treated and held without their consent. Besides this, the Superior has carried herself rather haughtily and used many threats and improper expressions towards the citizens and Selectmen of Charlestown. Add to this that the Institution was Roman Catholic, a name which is hateful to every Protestant and you perhaps have reasons to account for the burning of the Convent. 
The immediate perpetrators of this act were a low set of fellows gathered chiefly from Charlestown and the neighboring towns. 
The signal by which they were to be guided in their concerted attack was a beacon fire kindled upon Mount Benedict in front of the Convent. As soon as this was observed by the conspirators, they repaired "en masse" to the scene of their disgraceful action, and throwing open the doors permitted the inmates to pass unmolested and then commenced their work of destruction. 
All that this splendid establishment contained --books, clothing, jewelry, furniture, and musical instruments --was either plundered or burnt, the nuns and scholars escaping with only what they had upon their backs. The loss is estimated by the Bishop and Superior at fifty thousand dollars. 
But why was not this mob dispersed? it is often asked. This probably may be answered by saying that the distance at which the Convent stood from the village-of Charlestown and the dispatch with which the rioters effected their purpose prevented a sufficient body of men from being assembled in time to act successfully upon them and save the building. Moveover, a large part of those who were called to the spot, if they did not lend a helping hand, at least countenanced the destruction by standing silent and unconcerned spectators. 
This is a foul blot upon the character of the New England people who, from boasting of light and liberality, have proceeded to a deed almost unprecedented in this country. 
Mount Benedict stands in sight of Bunker Hill. Upon the one are the smoldering ruins of the Convent --a disgraceful monument of the intemperate zeal and unadvised measures of Mobocracy. Upon the other is the Bunker Hill Monument, a magnificent obelisk which was undertaken at vast expense to commemorate the death of American worthies and perpetuate their memory. 

It is difficult to reconcile the one with the other. 
'I'o suppose they both originated in the same spirit and were patronized by the same men would indeed seem paradoxical. We must therefore conclude that the former was raised by admiring posterity to commemorate an event dear to every Republican heart and that the latter was razed by a mob --an ungallant and lawless set of fellows through a misguided zeal and a love of anarchy. 
Friday August 29, 1834. Visited the Bunker Hill monument and the U. S. Navy Yard, both of which amply repay the traveller for his time in visiting them. 
I witnessed an imperfect specimen of naval discipline and manoeuvring on board the frigate Potomac. She is now nearly ready for sea and has her full number of men on board. 
Every part of her from the hold to the maintop-gallant mast was full of men at their respective employments. Order and regularity was manifest in all their movements. 
lt may be neccessary, yet not the less humiliating on that account, as I conceive, to the highminded man to b~ subject to such excessively severe regulations as are the men of our Navy. 
There seems to be air of abject servility pervading the whole herd of common sailors which is painful to behold, especially by Republicans like ourselves who are obliged to call no man master. 
There is no alternative, however--strict obedience or a poor, inefficient Navy. 
Saturday August 30, 1834. Am tired of sauntering about the streets and environs of the city without any object but that of seeing. Time begins to hang heavily upon my hands and I shall be off tomorrow morning for New York. 
Visited Brooklyn [Brookline] and my friend Burbank. 
Sunday August 31, 1834. My journal will now be much of a piece with my travelling, which is rapid and marked with few incidents to relieve its tedium. I'll put a long black ***** for the road between Boston and Providence and get on board of the steamboat as expeditiously as possible without saying one word of Providence for a very good sufficient reason, because I know nothing about it. I learned once, however, in Cumming's old Geography that it stands at the head of Narragansett Bay, in the state of Rhode Island, and from a tradition or some other source that one Roger Williams, a good old-fashioned Baptist whom the Puritans of New England could not intimidate, founded this flourishing little city and gave it a name. 

Let it stand forever as a monument of religious liberty! 
12 o'clock. I find myself on the Connecticut, a good stout old sea-boat, splendidly furnished, with everything that can make a traveller comfortable, and under the command of Capt. Porter. 
Oh Phoebus, what a smiling face you put on, which in the language of common sense means that the weather is clear and pleasant. 
The Bay, which at first was narrow, widens out into a broad smooth sheet studded here and there with little islands and vessels with their white sails bellying. The shores are low and rise with a gentle slope from the water. 
Newport, near the sea, is a beautiful village and a place of very fashionable resort during the summer months. The fortifications in its vicinity now under progress will effectually command the whole bay. 
Off "Point Judith." What a bugbear this celebrated cape is to all who have ocassion to double it. 
"I never was sea sick in all my life," says one passenger to his neighbor. "Well, I rather guess you will be when you go round Point Judith," was the reply. "Why," says he, "I was so sick going round the "Pint" once that I vomited myself inside out!" The fellow's story made my stomach quake, not with sickness however but laughter. This was the last I heard of the "Pint" for I soon found myself asleep. 
New York City 
Monday August 31, 1834. When I went on deck this morning, I found Dame Nature in a terrible, sullen, moody fit; her face was dark and threatening and she now and then stormed frightfully but I soon recollected that this was the "washing-day," which fully accounted for her ill-humor. 
Six o'clock A.M. Went down through Hell Gate or Hurlgate like an arrow. Here I saw a couple of brothers* who never spake to each other; doubtless there is great coldness between such hardened fellows. *two rocks called the "Two Brothers" 
5 o'clock P.M. On board the Washington for Newburgh. I sounded a retreat in a few hours after I arrived in the city. Am no ways anxious to be attacked by the cholera, too sturdy a foe to human life. 
Newburgh September 2, 1834. This is a very clever little village --sixty miles from 

N.Y.and driving a brisk business with the back country and the City. 
Its location is not surpassed by any upon the river. It is situated just above the great gap in the Highlands through which the Hudson passes, rolling his dark waters beneath impending rocks and precipices of immense height. 
The view from the village is both wide and romantic. On the south it is bounded by the towering "highlands," which aim their woody summits to the clouds; towards the North, the vision may take a wider stretch and trace the winding course of the Hudson through many a mile of fertile country sprinkled with beautiful towns and villages until sight is lost in the azure distance. 
Wednesday September 2, 1834. West Point Military Academy is visible on a high precipitous rock eight miles below, and with the aid of the telescope all its buildings and appendages are distinctly noted. 
Thursday September 4, 1834. My friends here think that the characteristic of a good visit consists in its being a long one, so at least I infer from their importunate entreaties to have me stay among them. Now for my own part I would not give a fig to stay more than a day or two with the dearest friend I have on earth. This is amply sufficient for a mutual interchange of feelings, for the rekindling of friendship's sacred flame (I suppose the poet and sentimentalist would say) and for a due regard to the rules of etiquette. 
()h! what a "bore" this visiting is! and not only so, but a wicked and abominable waste of time. I like to see my friends well enough, but surely it is hard and, what is more, impolite to oblige one to stay a week to minister to their gratification. 
Friday September 5, 1834. Visited four and twenty cousins, talked nonsense, walked to "the Vale" with three ladies --the Devil was in two of them and one fell into the brook, got her out safe but a little cooled down. 
Saturday September 6, 1834. Sol never smiled upon a more splendid and glorious day. Crossed the river and rode to the Mat[t]eawan factories in company with a party consisting of five or six ladies and only two gent[lemen] --rather "unequalled yoke," as Paul says. 
If the other fellow was not a mean little "Josy," then my name is not Jack. He was infinitely well pleased with the excursion hut "pulled his neck out" and left me to pay the bills. I felt towards him as the little urchin towards his mother who, being asked why he cried, said he wanted a piece of bread, which she refused, but did not care so much for the bread as to see the disposition of the b ____ h! 

Sunday September 7, 1834. Heard a couple of old Scotch fellows preach 
tremendous soporific. Heaven deliver me from another such bore! 
Monday September 8, 1834. Rainy. On board steamhoat Albany with fair prospects of seeing Dorp tonight. Everything looks dreary without; within is noise and confusion. Curse steamboat travelling! 
Tuesday September 9, 1834. Have wonders enough to keep folks talking [about?] them two days. It is pleasant to sit down quietly at home after a six weeks' jaunt.The pleasures of home are more prized and its humble attractions are strengthened. 
Wednesday September 10, 1834. The morning is a season of activity; the frame is invigorated by repose, is prepared for exertion, and motion gives pleasure. The pure atmosphere, so much more bracing than at other hours, so much .sweeter and more exhilirating than the air of a confined chamber, has been prepared to be breathed; and like all nature's medicines it is superior to any that art can procure. Early rising and early exercise might more properly be called food than medicine, as they are designed for daily use and to protect us from disease rather than to remove it! True every word! 
Union College Thursday September 11, 1834. The routine and duties of another collegiate term are close upon my heels. The rumbling of wheels over the College avenues already begins to be heard and the sound of busy feet and greeting friends. The deserted halls are filled with life, and everything around returns to its wonted order. Even the doleful bells whose tongues have been so long motionless refuse not to talk as loudly as ever. 
Farewell a happy vacation! 

Schenectady Friday September 12, 1834. Having passed a long vacation of 8 weeks according to my hearts desire, I am now to enter again the harness of Col.lege discipline. To a mind wholly unbent and unschackled from the usual restraints which study imposes upon me, it is by no means an easy task to wheel the bent of my inclinations "right about" and halt before a volume of Fren[ch] mathematfcs. To this I must bring myself. 
Saturday September 13, 1834. Our College is litterally thronged with num.bers. At no former period has it contained so many members. Every room is filled; besides, some take rooms out of College edifices. I deem this a sure mark of public confidence in an institution when***** are continally increasing in numbers and talent and morality. Thus, undoubtedly, [one may?] sayof Union. 
Sunday September 14, 1834. Our days begin now to grow sensibly shorter and our evenings longer and cool; this, however, I consider as one of the most delighful times of the year because nature, altho' assuming a more rigid aspect and casting her tattered mantle of green, strongly reminds [ us] of many interesting lessons which we have often learned in the experience of human life. The scorching heat of summer is softened into the mild and comfortable coolness of autumn. 
Death has visited many families in Schenectady of late and carried [ off?] several people by the cholera. 
Monday September 15, 1834. A more lovely day could not be well conceived than this: every plant and tree, all animated nature, seems to thrive and rejoice in its sunshine. á How small are the works of man compared with those of God! This is the commencement of my Senior and last year in College, which altho' it flatters a young man's pride a little who has been 3 years subordinate, nevertheless brings sad forebodings when I shall be thrown upon the wide world to act for others and myself. 
Tuesday September 16, 1834. Yesterday for the first time in our College course brought us a class before Dr. Nott, who now hears our rescitations in Criticism. At the first rescitation, as might be expected, he gave us a lecture --familiar, disconnected, but not the less valuable. He spoke of the object of the instruction which he intended to give during the coming year, viz. to make us men and think for ourselves; of the futility of that course by which we exercised our memories rather than our thinking powers, and of the value of severe application and intense thought in every department of life. 

Wednesday September 17, 1834. Lord Karnes, in the introduction to his book upon Criticism, says that his object in the subsequent pages is "To examine the sensitive part of human nature and show what is agreeable or disagreeable to it, thus developing what are the true principles of the fine arts." This indeed will be a valuable study [for] youngmen of every prospect in life, but I feel myself often in a lamentable error in esteeming all studies as useless save such as appertain to mv taste or mv intended pursuit. Surely the knowledge of what is agreeable or disagreeable to our nature lies at the foundation of that greatest of all studies, to wit, the study of mankind. Altho' I am an advocate for the supremacy of Inclination in all matters of study and proffession, still there are some studies which he should attain to even at the sacrifice of some favourite pursuit. The study of human nature is one of these studies. 
Thursday September 18, 1834. No idea was ever advanced by man, the truth of which his own experience oftener ver[l]yfies, than this of Pope: "A little learning is a dangerous thing; Drink deep or taste not the Pierian spring: These shallow drafts intoxicate the brain; And drinking largely sobers us again." An admirable satire on literary pride whose odiousness everyday disgusts me! It makes me ashamed of myself, altho' one among the best of my class, when my Freshman pedantry and Sophomore vanity is remembered. I once thought my knowledge was vast, but now I see the emptiness of my vain thoughts, even when with thousands of others who have but just arrived at the threshold of Science's temple I know nothing as I should. Life is only sufficient to begin "to pick up a few pebbles upon that great ocean of knowledge" which God alone can fathom. 
Friday September 19, 1834. Prof. Potter is perhaps the best lecturer in Coll. if we except Doct. Nott, who is excelled by few men of the country in the interest and practicalness of his lectures. Mr. P. gave us one this afternoon on Anthropology. He divided the study of the immaterial past of man into 3 parts, viz. the intellectual and the [spiritual?] part and the critical, which is otherwise called taste. 
Saturday September 20, 1834. I have occupied this day in reading John Taylor's Records of My Life and attending a PBK society meeting. Of the two I think that the former is a superior source of entertainment. My opinion of this book has hitherto [been?] so mean as to hinder me from even so much as examining its table of contents; finding it, however, laying upon my table this morning I was inclined to see what could be contained between the covers of a book with so curious a tittle and before I again laid it down the bell rang for 12 o'clock. It contains cheifly brief and familiar biographies, together with interesting anecdotes of most conspicuous literary and theatrical characters of modern Europe with whom either he or his family were connected or acquainted. 

What makes his book particularly pleasing is the easy manner in which he writes, the minutness of detail and the faithfulness with which he develops the character of his friends by describing their domestic manners and everyday foibles. 
Sunday September 21, 1834. Mr. Willis, familiarly cognominated "Father" or "Dad Willis," who now preaches at Amsterdam, supplied our pulpit this day, with considerable honour to himself considering his youth and inexperience in the ministerial office. He is a man of good sense, sound judgement and comfortable age; first a miller, then a student and now a preacher, always applying himself dil[[l]igently in either of these stations save the 2d, which was usually neglected for the last. His piety is warm and without enthusiasm; his manners, simple and unassuming; his temper, mild and equitable. Perhaps in all his college life he never said a foolish thing or gave to his fellow students to think lightly of his religious sincerity. While amongst us, the cheif field of his usefulness and the employment in which he delighted was in teaching the coloured people of the city, in a double capacity of schoolmaster and preacher. While thus employed he had the pleasure of seeing the moral and religious conditions of these poor men daily improving through his influence which, being strengthened by long and constant acts of kindness, became superior to that of any other man. May he live long and prosper. 
Monday September 22, 1834. ~No man can be a mathematician unless he go to the French who undoubtedly surpass all other people in this branch of science. It were al[l]most a paradox that it should be so, that a nation the most lively, thoughtless and polite among all the realms of this earth should also be the most rigid and correct reasoners. It has long been a matter of surprise to me that we have so few books on this science in our language that are what they should be. True, we have Arithmetics, Algebras &c &c. which are founded on the old synthetic method of reasoning by giving rules without reasons, but the boy who studies such books becomes like a miller who casts in his corn at the hopper and receives the meal at the trough without once knowing or thinking how or why it became so. 
Tuesday September 22, 1834. Boucharlat's Mechanics is the most pleasing work I have studied this many a day on account of the beauty of his demonstrations in which a complete application of Analyt. Geo. and Calculus is made, fully showing the superiority of his work over Farrar's. The latter is deficient in order, system and connexion in his arrangement, clearness and generality in his demonstrations which, in attempting to make [them?] as far as possible independent of mathematics, he has materially injured. The former is eminent for all these important dualities of a philosophical work. Farrar, too, whether by translating or alteration of his own authority, I know not, has made his book extremely obscure in many parts even where perfect clearness would have been almost unavoidable. Boucharlat's, altho' written in French, is so neat in his style that the merest Tyro in this language can plainly comprehend his truths; in fine, he has composed as he should have done and combined pleasure with profit in the pursuit of science. 

Wednesday September 24, 1834. Last night a little before 12 o'clock the whole college were aroused from their quiet slumbers by the mingled din of city bells and cries of fire, which the students were not slow in echoing. In five minutes every man of us were on our way to the scene of desolation. A more splendid and impressive spectacle could hardly be imagined than the immense sheet of vivid flame which, rolling majestically up the clear blue heavens, perfectly extinguished the twinkling stars in the overwhelming flood of its own light. The colleges, the adjacent houses, the lofty [church] spire, distant hills and every reflective object threw back the borrowed light which darkly illumined them. From the neighborhood of the desolation, the stillness of midnight was broken by working of the engines, the crackling of the fire, the loud commands of the engineer speaking thro' his trumpet, besides the running to and fro and the confusion of the excited multitude. The conflagration originated in or near an unoccupied shop owned by a Mrs. Price, and spread each way, consuming a wooden house on either side together with their appropriate out-buildings. Nothing but the persevering efforts of the fireman, aided by the activity of the citizens, saved the house of Mr. Benson from destruction. It caught afire several times and was burned to a coal on the side exposed. So strange a thing is fire in Schenectady that all sally forth to witness the novel spectacle; even the ladies, laying aside the modesty so natural to their sex, appear in the crowd arrayed in dishabille to inspire the men with their smiles and encouragements. 
Thursday September 25, 1834. How sadly beautiful is the Indian summer: it holds a middle place between summer and autumn but partakes of neither extremes. Cool foggy mornings, a smoky atmosphere and delicious softness in the air usually advise us of its presence. 
Dr. Abercrombie in his work on the moral feelings has doubtless exhibited the same proofs of the acuteness and discernment of his great mind as in his former book. His style is easy and elegant, nevertheless hate such dry, abstruse, metaphysical studies; it is useless for me even to think of loving them, so inveterate is my disgust. I often find that idleness is too congenial with my feelings and mine is a hopeless case so far as distinguished merit goes in a proffession. 

Friday September 26, 1834. No man need ever be haunted by blue devils in college so long as fun and roguery can chase away the vapours of his mind. He may have companions of all temperaments, books on all subjects, and mischeif of all kinds; dull care can find no abode in a single heart, provided he be not first courted. I was led to this by a little incident which afforded me much amusement this evening. One of our [students?] Isaac Law, a tenant of the South Section, perambulating of late, as he was used to do, thro' the classic groves which lie in this vicinity "came athwart" a "bee tree" or in other words a hollow elm in which "the industrious bees had stored, In artful cells their luscious hoard." He marked well the spot and hid the precious secret in his breast untill under cover of the night he and some trusty ones might seize upon the "rich repast." Alas, poor Isaac! how soon the "fancied pleasure flies"; he revealed the matter too soon to a deceitfull friend to whom mischeif was sweeter far than honey or honey-comb. He together with Belden, Graves, Curtis and Mars, preparing all neccessary implements while the unfortunate finder rescited to Dr. Proudfit, forstalled him and brought away an overflowing pail of ambrosial food. Who can picture his rage and disappointment when in the evening, he found his luxurious treasure lost and the tree where it was smoking in ruins. Whilst the chagrined Isaac plodded his way homeward to his room Belden, Curtis &c. with a party of friends, among whom I had the honor of being one, were enjoying the fruits of his discovery. The evening's entertainfment was without doubt heightened by the manner in which the feast had been obtained. 
Saturday, September 27, 1834 Warm day. Abercrombie in his Philosophy of the Moral Feelings somewhere in the introduction advances this idea: that it i s probable that hereafter, when the body and soul are disunited, all the acts and thoughts of our past lives-will be arrayed before the mind and be seen as by one glance of the eye. A very singular fact has lately happened in this city which together with many others gives an appearance of truth to the above idea. Ever since I have resided here and how long before I know not, a crazy man has been seen upon the "stoop" and in front of the house of Mr. Van Guysling in State St., who is his brother-in-law. Once this man (Van Antwerp by name) was a student in Union Coll. and an officer in the army, when by dissipation he lost his rank and with it his reason; for 15 years he had been deprived of it, till within a few days, being on his death bed, it was completely restored; he saw every act of his life before his mind's eye, talked rationally of former events, but knew nothing of the 15 past years of his life; this was a blank. 

Sunday September 28, 1834. Gilletts text was "Never spake man like this man" but his subject was I know not what: he talked at random a while about Jesus, who annulled the Jew's religion, and did not stop speaking till he had finished his sermon 3 or 4 times by saying "lastly," "finally" and "to conclude." His scouring all over creation to collect materials for preaching and flourishing till all hearts are weary is a matter which ministers should sedulously avoid. Our "Dominie," altho' esteemed and beloved for his character and services, exhibits indeed an enormous bundle of faults in his sermons, the doctrines of which, although they be sound and wholesome, are communicated in a bad manner. Having naturally a lively imagination unguided by the restraints of education and correct thinking, he soars farther than his ventursome pinions can well sustain him. From the sublime he steps to the ridiculous. In his present attainments he is too content to remain; satisfied barely to appear with decency rather than attain to that high state of intellectual exellence to which he is capable of arriving by great labor. He reads many books but digests none well; he knows many facts the fruit of others brains, but taxes his own good mind wI little exertion. He is a lazy man like the rest of the world. 
"Old Emperor" Wrights' son preached in the afternoon. He said many good things but made me wonder why a negro, having had such an education as he, should make such palpable blunders in grammar and the use of words. He has a thick head doubtless. 
Monday September 29, 1834. Cold, windy day. It is a matter which requires little proof that our present militia system is a pernicious thing to the country. What transpired today on the "Albany Hill," where the Annual Inspection was made, I am well aware disgusted every virtuous spectator. Gambling tables and tents without number were spread upon the parade ground, where hucksters, blacklegs, gamblers, drunkards and pedl[a]rs robbed the silly ones of their money and virtue. I never witnessed such a rage for gaming. -Even the boys had dice tables and hazarded their scanty coppers, which their indulgent parents had given, for the barren~ of gaining others. What good is attained now which can compensate for this frightful exhibition of vice? Not a whit. No soldiers are made; no military discipline is enforced; rather than rearing a defense for the country, this is undermining that greatest of bulwarks to any nation, to wit [its] virtue. 
Tuesday September 30, 1834. Yesterday we had the tragedy, today the farce of military parade: it would [be] a difficult matter to say which exhibition most disgraced human nature, the reality or the burlesque. It is sufficient, however, for me to know that the participators of either gained little credit from virtuous and respectible citizens. The "Fantastics" to the number of 100 have been marching and parading thro' the streets of the city all day; near night I saw them at the Mohawk Bridge just before they were dismissed. Such another sorry spectacle I never beheld. It seemed as though hell had vomited up the very dregs of her inhabitants, the devil and his imps. 

Some were on foot and others on horse, compared with which Rosinante and Dapple would be splendid Arabian horses. In their dresses a remarkable dissimilarity of taste was displayed; no 2 were attired alike, nor generally speaking in habiliaments which could be likened to anything in or under the earth, so unsightly and unique were they. 
Some, passing the bounds of their sex regardless of gallantry, appeared in the gown and petticoat immodestly short but redundant in breadth and largeness of sleeves; others were clad in skins and the "Devil Knows what all." All their movements were in keeping with their decorations; they marched in the most confused order to anything but music, a petticoated fellow commanded on foot, giving off his orders in true "gobority" style. 
This they call a "take off'' on the present militia system. 
Wednesday October 1, 1834. Cold rainy day. I suppose it matters little what may be the profession of a man, how humble his station or discouraging his circumstances in life; he will rise to eminence and respectability if industry characterize him, if he studies to govern his own mind and those of other's. But the great difficulty with us foolish men is that we will be content simply to be: to think is too greivous a task for our slothful intellects, the weeds of vice and passion are permitted to grow rank in our own minds, and as for considering the delicate machinery and wonderful capabilities of the intellectual and moral parts of men, how seldom do we think what is man. David calls him ... 
Thursday October 2, 1834 .... a "harp of a thousand strings" and so he is, both physically and spiritually. Still how rare is the man who can skillfully play upon this inimitable peice of mechanism. It were just as practicable for me to draw whatsoever acts I please from these beings who surround me, possessing like passions and sympathies, as for the apt player to strike melody from the melting piano. The same leading faculties are exercised and the same mental efforts are put forth in the former as in the latter instance, altho' with some degree of modification. 
Friday October 3, 1834. I have been astonished to see how soon one biting frost bleaches the green mantle of nature. Then the deep green forests on 

the mountain [are] vari[e]gated by every shade of colouring that the most cunning painter could invent. Here again, as in the beauty of a rainbow and the splendour of a sunset, nature mocks the puerile attempts of art. She is sublime! She is inimitable! The expression of her designs is no less manifest than the beauty of her colouring. Let man look abroad upon the face of nature and in the autumnal frosts, the falling leaves, the decay of vegitation and declining sun behold types of his own precarious existence. Let him contemplate the rainbow or a summer's sky burnished by the rays of a setting sun and then say if, in spite of all the disadvantages of repeti.tion, nature is not vastly superior to art. 
Saturday October 4, 1834. Rain. Had the blues dreadfully, in other [words] was unhappy because I had spent this day unprofitably; for the same reason my Saturdays are usually the less pleasant than any other day although most desired. So many things crowd upon my mind thaf midst choosing and laziness the whole day is lost. I am vexed to death with the increasing jingle of the College bell, with the tedious sameness of College duties and the restraint of college laws. Three whole years I have. served [an] apprenticeship at booking in Union, during which time I have never been absent a day or had a single mark for deficiency in any of my duties. Now I think I am entitled to a furlough which shall give me a little liberty. After this term I think I shall remain at home and be my own man. 
Sunday October 5, 1834. The Godlike part of man nowhere exhibits itself with more true loveliness than in the preparations which he makes for an eternity and in the homage which he renders to this Gracious Creator. How poor indeed must that man be who is content to feed his hungry soul upon the husks of this world's vanities "which are unsatisfying in the attainment, and perish with the usage." How meager is his wealth! How scanty is the cup of his felicity!á Can man, one of the links of that chain of immortal beings who approximate in holiness towards the infinite perfection of the Great Eternal, ever expect to be satisfied with pleasures less intellectual and less holy than those which proceed from the throne of God? Has human reason or learned philosophy, all the arcana of science and nature, ever found out a restorative for the diseasedness of the imperishable mind? Hitherto their endeavors have proved futile and the honour was reserved for Him alone who has introduced a system based upon the immutable laws of our nature: love to God and to our neighbour. Compared with the life to come, how this dwindles into nothing; on this hangs the happiness or misery of that which lies beyond our sight. Oh how rash and inconsiderate is inan! He holds the destiny of himself in his own hands yet will not be wise; he finds earth unfit for the mind yet will not look upward to more refined pleasures; he has eternal felicity proffered 

but will not accept. 
Monday October 6, 1834. The many parties and societies which interupt the harmony of a College of young men, fomenting angry feuds and bitter animosities, are not among the least of those causes which embitter the life of a student. There are those I know who delight in little intrigues and cunning manoevers to effect a purpose, to whom the storm of life rather than its sunshine is agreeable. Such men are built for aspiring politicians, demagogues and anarchists. No one indeed can accuse the Sons of Union of being peculiar in the arts of sophistry and management; wherever men are, will exist parties and, whever parties, the meanest motives for accomplishing their ends. 
Now take the single article of societies, of which in all 12 or 15 secret, literary and honorary exist in Coll., and who can wonder if we have opposing interests? Here are little offices and petty preferments, which are sufficient causes for contention between those jealous clubs; each strives by the might of artifice and electioneering to appropriate the trifling gewgaw to themselves; besides, the desire of precedency in the numbers and talents of their members induces some to descend to low intrigues, and all to sacrifice some degree of independence upon the altar of party spirit. 
Tuesday October 8, 1834. It is an art of no mean acquirement and an affair of considerable importance to be able to prognosticate the weather. Altho' I can boast of no great proficiency in this matter, having only very lately turned my attention to it, yet from the few hasty observations which I have made it appears to me that the weather can be foretold with some degree of exactness. Our knowledge upon this subject can only extend to short periods and be perfected only by long experience. Those men are best prognosticators whose business depends much upon the weather, for instance farmers and sailors. Old men are particularly very acute observers of signs; on the contrary young people never know when "a storm is brewing'L untill it comes. 
Now it would save us many a sorry disappointment and many a grievous loss if we could but thrust an eye a little way into futurity, the whole secret of which consists merely in profiting by the past. 
Wednesday October 8, 1834. The barometer, hygrometer and other artificial means are instruments of great practical importance especially the former, which however, is far from being what some imagine. 
We see upon our common barometers the word "rain," "fair" &c. which seem to indicate that when the mercury stands at these points we are 
S-30 
anout to expect the corresponding results; this however is not true. The surest and most universal means of determining the weather is by the winds and clouds. I recollect what a sure index of the weather my aged Grandfather was; 35 or 40 years of his life was spent upon the sea and 25 in farming. When 
the wind "hauld out," i.e. blew from  sea, he professied  [prophesied]  ,a  
storm; if it "hauld in," i.e. blew from shore, fair weather.  
These  I have  noticed  are  pretty  sure  indications,  especially  near  

seashore. 
Thursday October 9, 1834. I know of no calling which has such important bearings upon the interests of mankind as that of a clergyman. The gospel, the Holy word of God's Revelation, the guide of every man, the disclosure of higher joys and purer pleasures, the exciter of longing and immortal hopes in the breast of man! What limit can be set to the usefulness of that profession whose office is to promulgate these truths to the world. 
Notwithstanding the consequence of this magnificent system of religion, how powerless is the person preaching of it; the results which follow, how vastly disproportionate to the means put to requisition. 
Friday October 10, 1834. Surely no man should know more of human nature than the minister of the gospel, yet who knows less? He can tell you what man ought to be, but seldom takes advantage of his failings to win him back to virtue. He tells us we ought to be good men, but rarely knows enough of the mental machinery to regulate its disordered movements. I would by no means have him preach doctrine congenial to the corrupt propensities of his hearers. This would be wretched daubing, but let him study well the avenues to the heart and all the means by which mind can operate upon mind, then let him move the whole man right onward to religious duty just as he would urge him in any enterprize in life. It is not [in] the ministerial office only that a good knowledge of human nature is eminently useful to the clergy. They are often called to fill the important stations of Presidents, Profs and teachers in our colleges and schools where this knowledge is-absolutely indespensable. 
Saturday October 11, 1834. Why they should be selected before all others, as they always are, I cannot well make out. It certainly is not on the score of literary acquirements or of human knowledge as has now been shown, nor on the score of the moral and religious influence which their sacred profession inspires; for this indeed is merely nominal. I believe that this monopoly comes about partly through custom but cheifly thro' sectarianism. 
Now the question often occurs, Whence comes so much disorganization 
S3l 
among students? It is unnecessary to say that this sin may be charged usually to the folly of the honorable faculty. I will venture to say that out of the same number of clergymen and lawyers 3 of the latter to one of the former may be chosen who will manage a college of young [men] far more quietly than they ordinarily are managed. We admit exceptions, among which is our revered Pres. Nott, than whom no man in these states knows more of man. Upon the whole, however, one conclusion is that clergymen ought to mind their own business or, rather, ought to know more of the materials upon which they operate. 
Sunday October 12, 1834. I have seldom seen a more striking exemplification of powerlessness in preaching than was exhibited today in A[lbany] [by] Gilletts bro[ther], Philo Gillett. In criticizing his performance I would not detract anything from his Christian character or bate in the least degree the high estimation in which he is held by the backwoods men of his own congregation; undoubtedly many an illiterate soul has leaped for joy thro' his instrumentality. I censure the performance, not the man. Judging from short experience I should think him to be a man of common mind, humble acquirements and ardent piety; well stocked in old thread.
bare phrases and commonplace ideas and fully initiated into all the stiff, unnatural ways of the antient clergy. 
Monday October 13, 1834. He has a little toutch of the ranter and is a good soporific. Whatever of nature he once had has been cramped and jammed down by art and bad education till he has become a tedious fellow and a plaguey bore. His voice is as monotonous as the deep thunder tones and comprises at most not above 3 notes. He whines like a Methodist. "It is strange -yea it is passing strange" that ánature cannot have fair play; when to follow her is so agreeable, when to depart from her so revolting. 
Tuesday October 14, 1834. Man can seldom be cursed with a greater curse than passions ungoverned. Such an one is under a bondage tenfold more servile than the veriest slave on earth. His affections are frozen, his sensibilities are blunted, his sympathies are lessened and in proportion to the fierceness of his passions sinks the man to an animulation with the brute. How his bosom boils! How sweet peace flees from his breast, how sure an index becomes the countenance of his heart! 
Wednesday October 15, 1834. It is he who thinks most that makes the man. Of this article, thought, however there is plag[u]y little in this heedless world. Everyone does no more at this business than circumstances will permit. Those great luminaries who now and then rise to enlighten the world ever are always willing [others?] should think for them, while they act as mere passive beings. How irrational is man! he eats, drinks and sleeps; he wakes to supply the calls of nature and necessity, he providently lays up in stores for future exigencies, he guards against dangers without, but in all this what does he more than the beast that perisheth? They do all this and with a wisdom which would seem vastly superior to mere instinct and with an industry which would well befit men to imitate. 

Thursday October 16, 1834. The universal belief in ghosts: whence is it, from the multiplicity of evidences or the constitution of man's nature? From the latter without doubt, because of all matters of faith, I know of none established by fewer proofs than this. There is something in the pangs of death and the mysteries of futurity which excites terror in the 
á heart of man, hence among the ignorant especially nothing is more easy than that this dismay should beget images and people the dark valley of the shadow of death with beings of the most terrible kind. All observation confirms this fact. When have we ever heard of a friendly spirit returning to comfort and cheer the path of man's unhappy existence? When has some guardian friend watched our erring feet and warned us of unforseen danger? Should we not expect this if the visible and invisible world held converse together? Nay, methinks this wicked earth would have some powerful preaching in the damned spirits and the redeemed souls. Since I am [sure?] that nothing could be believed sooner than the existence of ghosts had we the most distant apology for such belief, it is far from being a difficult thing to conceive of such intelligences or even to conceive of their mingling with mená and filling the very air that we breath. The pride of our hearts in the strength of boasted courage may deny this, but from the days of our boyhood when we sat in the chimney corner, to the years of powerful manhood a chill has come over our spirits when listening to some thrilling ghost story and for a moment, forgetting our philosophy, we have tacitly acknowledged a belief. 
Friday October 17, 1834. No good man can contemplate the rapid march of licentiousness in this country and not lament the unhappy consequences to our government. In one city a Roman Catholic Convent has been plundered of a large property and burnt, 60 young ladies being driven from their habitation at midnight. In many large towns clergymen have been abused and their houses attacked solely for the liberty of speech, churches have been profaned and razed, the rights of our colored population invaded, their habitations pil[l]aged and destroyed and their persons villainously served. Nay, popular fury is not satiated with these riotous proceedings, it thirsts for blood; only a few days ago a young man was murdered at the polls in Philadelphia and 18 men more or less dangerously wounded. Can these excesses be the necessary concomitant of a free government? Will man ever be such a wretched slave to his passions that he must be ruled with a rod of iron? It is a proverb no less trite than true that "virtue ... 

Saturday October 18, 1834 ... .is the only hope of a republic"; here then is our only proof that virtue will triumph over vice, that the frowns of gocxl men will intimidate the mob [or] either ruin or redemption is near. How beautifully Shakespeare describes the mob, in Coriolanus; 
"What would you have, you curs, 
That like nor peace, nor war? the one affrights you, 
The other makes you proud. He that trusts you 
Where he should find you lions, find you hares; 
Where foxes, geese; you are no surer, no 
Than is the coal of fire upon the ice, 
Or hailstone in the sun. Your virtue 
To make him worthy whose offense subdue him, 
And curse that justice did it. Who deserves greatness 
Deserves your hate; and your affections are 
A sick man's appetite, who desires most that 
Which would increase his evil. He that depends 
Upon your favours swims with fins of lead 
And hews down oaks with rushes. Hang ye! Trust ye? 
With every minute you do change a mind; 
And call him noble that was now your hate. 
Him vile that was your garland. 
Sunday October 19, 1834. In the passing eloquence of Elder Welch I have had a spiritual and intellectual feast. The great eternal truths of our religion, however communicated, claim thro' the feelings of man and induce his belief, but whenever they become the theme of some mighty spirit and the subject of his soulstrung eloquence, what mind is not moved, elevated, enlarged! What soul does not feel and believe! Elder Welch's fort[e] consists in extemporary speaking in which he perhaps has not an equal in this country. 
To show that I am not alone in this opinion, I will give an anecdote. Last summer, whilst he was in Boston, the minister of a church gave the following notice, "Mr. Welch of Albany, the greatest speaker in these parts and perhaps in this country, will preach at the ____ St. Church this afternoon on account of which there will be no services here." As well [as] in Albany, wherever he goes he attracts immense congregations. 
Monday October 20, 1834. The Green St. Church, when he came to be 

their pastor, was poor in money and graces, their hearts were cast down, their spirits disquieted and their house unredeemed. He confronted the church and liquidated their debt. What was a feeble one has grown to be two. The Pearl St. Baptist Church, which has just been erected at an expense of 50,000 dollars, is an elegant edifice. In this Elder Welch will preach; Mr. Ides, in the Green St. Church. This much proves his popularity. 
I am told that he was an. engraver till 2 8 when he became pious and began to preach among the Alleg[he]ny mountains. Surely he is a memorable instance of what industry will do, directed by the spirit of God. 
His language, chaste and persuasive, is not always powerful like the torrent whose force and noisy spurt fatigues us but, like the limpid stream sometimes swift, sometimes slow, flows on unvaried from the pure fountain of his mind. 
Tuesday October 21, 1834. He has nothing trite or commonplace about him, nothing low or trivial. Whoever goes to hear that man comes back with a mind a little more elevated, with a better soul. It [is] now too late to say that he has not talents of a very high order; eloquence speaks from every motion of his body, his countenance speaks [out?] of his black peircing eye. He is a true imitator of nature. What he would have you feel, most deeply feel, he communicates with the most thrilling interest, with the most moving eloquence and with every power of his body and mind. 
Wednesday October 22, 1834. Amidst the conflicting elements of political warfare which now rages between the 2 opposing parties (Whig and Tory) if a man could stand unmoved, unbiased and judge like a philosopher, I cannot say what amount of knowledge he might acquire. 
Thursday October 23, 1834. Nay if he might but read these scurillous, blackguard newspapers, the mouth-peices of the parties which good men seldom peruse, would he not be a learner?~ 
Yes, on these belligerent sheets are stamped some of the principles of man's internal constitution in signs as manifest as the sun in the firmament of heaven. 
Friday October 24, 1834. They indeed are dark and revolting pictures of human nature, yet not the less true. They exhibit man solicited by the worst passions, halting not at falsehood, bribery and deceit, presenting the most unhallowed motives and counting no cost to gain a favorite end. What sleepless nights! what wretched lives! the politician leads. He rests his fate upon the fickle breath of popularity; today his name is on the tongues of thousand, tomorrow it is consigned to oblivion. 

Cohoes Falls and Albany Saturday October 25, 1834. Having some idea of purchasing a lot or 2 at the Cohoes Falls, I there met Father who had preceeded me by 2 days for the purpose of examining the place and its capabilities. Cohoes bids fair to be something, yet in the hands of its present proprietors I cannot say how great. No locality in the country perhaps can warrant greater hopes of success in a manufacturing interest. This would immediately improve if in New England, but New Yorkers I can calculate little. However, as for as far as human ken can peirce, there is encouragement. Slept at the Rising Sun in Albany. 
Albany Sunday October 26, 1834. Rainy. Heard Mr. Ides preach the dedication sermon of the splendid Pearl St. Church. The house was full and, considering the youth of the speaker, his performance was good. He has a mighty fault, however, to rid himself in his delivery; that is a harsh monotony of voice. 
In the afternoon Gillet preached one hour. 
I admire the purity and simplicity of architecture and at the same time the richness and beauty which is displayed in the construction of this house. It is justly an ornament to this city of domes and a monument of the liberality of its inhabitants. 
Monday October 27, 1834. The fashion of this world is decei[[p]t and hypocracy, and I am the more led to adopt this opinion as experience confirms it daily. The man whom I meet in the street dressed in the finest cloth, swinging a gold-head cane.and dangling his fine gold watch chain and key may not be worth a groat; when at home he may feel the gnawings of keen poverty and labor in an employment which he would be ashamed to own. 
October 28, 1834. I know a family who live in fine circumstances so far as the eye of a stranger might reach, who dress well, who occupy a good house decently furnished but who starve and freeze themselves and go naked at home for the sake of appearing above their circumstances abroad. These are the veriest niggards that ever breathed. 
Wednesday October 29, 1834. But deceit is not shown only in matters of dress and domestic affairs. We poor devils display our hypocricy in everything. Toward our rich and fashionable relatives we are very obsequious; our poor kindred, we dont know at all. 

Why is the young dandy ashamed of his poor venerable old father or his honest homespun brothers? Why? --because they expose his cursed deception and give the lie to all his high-born pretentions. 
Thursday October 30, 1834. In the literary world we find an equally 
despicable kind of deceit in the babbling pedant and the writer of the 
l00th-rate talent who scribles flat love tales and ditties for modern 
periodicals. 
Friday October 31, 1834. Have a severe cold, bones racked and full of pain. 
No more study till better. 
Saturday November 1, 1834. Everything is now subservient to politics. Every man and woman and boy is a politician, and to such a pitch does party zeal carry men that they forget all patriotism and decency. On politics turn the decision of questions, and the bestowment of offices wholly seperated therefrom. On politics depends much of ones success in business and all his popularity among men. If you would share the spoils, you must shout for the party in power. 
Sunday November 2, 1834. So unwell as not to attend church. Religion as usual is at pretty low ebb with me. I think of everything else before it and love everything else better. Why I should be so stupid, I know not. Why I should so completely forget God, I know not. 
Monday November 3, 1834. During 3 days beginning with this, the election will be held in this state for Gov. &c. Marcy, the present Gov., will undoubtedly be reelected by a decent majority. For the purpose of intimidating the students, much doubt is expressed whether they are residents or not. This report will have its desired effect upon some; others will vote, let the consequences come. 
Tuesday November 4, 1834. -Problem from Wanzer's Arithmetic Having given the base and perpendicular of any triangle, to find the side of a square inscribed in the same. 
Rule. Divide the product[s] of the perpendicular by their sum and the quotient will be the side of the inscribed square. I have made the following demonstration of this rule, which the author has not analyzed. 
(diagram) From similarity of the triangles ADE and ACB we have 

DE:AF::BC:AG 
Let DE= y AF= x BC= a & AG= b then a:b::y:x = whence f!: = y f!:thus is the b x b ratio of x & y now so long as a > b y will be > x Now AF + GF = AF + DE= X + ax= b hence 
ax+ bx= b2 x = b2 , ax by substituting a+b b becomes abZ = ab ab+bZ a+b 
Wednesday November 5, 1834. "The diameter of a circle being given, to find the side of the square inscribed in the circle," 
(diagram) x2 + x2 = a2, 2x2 = a2, x2 = a2, x= +/-a A/x= + a~l 
Thursday November 6, 1834. Last night the political pot boiled over and spilt the scum in our midst to the no small inconvenience of this quiet city. A noisy mob of boys and negroes about the middle of the night marched [thro] the streets with fife and drum, shouting the unexpected Jackson victory in this county. 
Had this been all, it would have been thought harmless, but the good-for-nothing devils, being supplyed with powder by somebody no better than themselves, cannonaded the town for 2 hours, frightening the women, waking up the noisy dogs and children and breaking glass in many houses, especially where noted men of the opposite party reside. 
They moreover committed many other little depredations which, although not very material in themselves, shows the legitimate tendency of this mob to be wanton and unqualified destruction. 
Friday November 7, 1834. My cold has at last become so severe upon me, that I am obliged however reluctantly to leave college and call the doctor. My head is the-seat of the disease which I hope soon to be able to eradicate. 
Bossut's History of Mathematics is a work which I have perused with considerable interest. 
He has arranged the subject in 4 periods, of which the first 2 or 3 [are] handled as well as they might be, perhaps considering the antientness of the time and scarcity of materiels, but in the last period the subject is by no means exhausted. Many eminent Mathematicians are not mentioned, such men as the world was proud of while living and whose memories it will never cease to cherish. However, it might have swelled the volume to a size which the author deemed impracticable. All the great eras in the 

march of the Mathematical science are carefully noted, besides the 
important discoveries and their authors. 
Saturday November 8, 1834. A more agreeable book nevertheless might be written on a plan differing somewhat from Bossut's His[tory]. I would have in my book not only all of importance that he has, but a brief, pithy bio.graphy of all the great mathematicians., together with many good anecdotes, illustrative of their habits and characters, as well as of the progress of the science. Such a plan might indeed swell the work to an immoderate size, yet it would not be the less interesting. 
Sunday November 9, 1834. No weller, unfit to attend church or more properly chapel, the former meaning a congregation of believers and the latter, a house of worship. Time hung heavily on my hands, not being ablE;.to read or meditate much by reason of my deranged head. Indeed I may say he stood still with me today. 
Monday November 10, 1834. Bossut in his His. Math. is manifestly partial specially towards his own countrymen and those of the continent, in contradistinction to Englishmen. Leibnitz, the Bernoullis, Marquis de Hopital, Euler, Clairant, Huygens, Des Cartes, Delambert, and many others he praises to the skies whilst, among the English, Newton, Taylor and Maclaurin and Napier are all of their mathematicians who receive a decent notice. Newton, I observe, is a source of much uneasiness to our author; everything that this great man did is mingled with errors. Bossut is obliged, however, to acknowledge his talents only because it is too late in the day to advance an opposite opinion. Such is a very greivous fault in any author. 
Tuesday November 11, 1834. Mary Ann started for New Hampshire on Sunday night with Eaton, thus far they have had beautiful weather. 
Problem from Wanzer's Arith. If two wheels the one 4 ft. in diameter and the other 5 ft. be connected together by an ax le tree one rod in length and be set a rolling on a plain untill they describe 2 concentric circles [what] will be the diameter of each circle? 

( diagram)á Let BC & DE be projections of the 2 wheels of which GF is the 
axletree. Now the question is reduced to find the 
length of AG & AF which we do from the following 
proportion derived from the similar angles BEH& 
BAG 
BH: HE:: BG: AG or (a) l: 161 :: 21: AG or x because BC= 5 & 2 2 DE= 4, [hence because] AG [is] being drawn to the middle 
BC& HE [is] being drawn paralel to AG, from whence we derive EF =HG= 2 andBG=2landBH=l_2 2GFis= 161 byHyp. 
From Equa (a) we have lx= 16 1x21 2 2 2 l x = 41 l 2x = 105 ft [or] = 10 rods the radius or x 
2 4 
is then equal to 5 rod, the diam. to 10. the diam. of smal ler circle will evidently be 8 rods. This is by no means a difficult prob. I wrote down because I considered it a very pleasing question. 
Wednesday Novemberl2, 1834. An important defect in the euphony of our language is the hissing sound of that [c]a[c]ophonous letter S. This is more perceptible to foreigners than to an Englishman whose blunted ear is deaf to any defect in the offending letter. 
I never was so struck with this fact as when lately hearing a good choir of singers in Albany. I observed that if an S began or ended a syl[l]able, it completely spoiled the music of it because the hissing of the choir almost drowned the harmony of their voices for the time they were performing that sylable. This sound is an inconvenience of which it may do well to talk but cannot be remedied. If the lyric poet could banish all words containing this letter from his poetry, he would indeed render us an immence service, but this project is as fruitless as the other. 
Thursday November 13, 1834. I have been vexed past all endurance and often had my patience tested severely, when noted examples of mismanagement of children have come before my eye. There lives and thrives not a more crying sin than this: it makes murderers, thieves, villains in politicks, villains in the church, villains in the beauty of social and domestic life. What ***** the mind of the boy and makes a man cross and irascible? the early culture. What raises up Hers and deceivers? a bad moral education. Nay who cannot say, 

"Tis Education forms the human mind Just as the twig is bent, the tree's inclined." 
Friday November 14, 1834. As yet my head is not sound so that I can resume my accustomed duties in college, neither do I think it will [be] thus this term. Whatever time I can I spend in reading Shakespeare who the more he is read, the more he pleases and instructs. This is a wonderful work next to the Bible but shows what is in man, his nature, laws and springs of action, as he says in his immortal Hamlet: "The end of playing both at and now was and is, to hold as 'twere the mirror up to nature." So has he copied after her with a masterly hand. 
My feeble praise is worth little now; when I know him more, then I will criticize him better. 
Saturday Nov. 15 1834. Problem from Bonnycastle's Algebra. The Arithmetical mean of two numbers exceeds the geometrical mean by 13 and the geometrical mean exceeds the harmonica! mean by 
12: what are the 2 numbers? x & y being the numbers we have the 2 equas~_~_y-13 = ~xy (1) ~xy-12 = 2xy (2) x + y Clearing equa (1) of fractions it becomes x + y .
25 = 2~xy, squaring X2 + y2 -52x -52y + 676 = 2xy, (3) Subtracting eq ua ( 1) from eq ua 
K.±..Y-25 = 2xy clearing of fractions &c xz + y2 -S0x -S0y =2xy(4) 2 x+y 
Combining equas. (3) and (4) x2+y2-52x-52y + 676=XZ+y2-50x-50y transposing 2x + 2y = 676 x + y = 338 y = 338 -x. Substituting these values in equa (1) 338 -13 = ~x(338-x) 156 = ~-x2 + 338x squaring 24330 = -XZ+ 338x extract square root of both sides x -169 = ~/-24336 + (169)Z = ~/28561 -24336 =~/4225 hence x = 169 + 6-5 = 234 or 104 and y = 104 or 234 Ans. 234 & 104 
Sunday November 16, 1834. I have been guessing, for many weeks, concerning the origin of the Benedictions at the conclusion of religious services and meetings for benevolent purposes. Of the antiquity of this custom I can affirm nothing; only that in the Apostles' time this same form of Benediction was used by them as a salutation and Christian farewell in their letters to the brethren. In all their short sermons and exhortations, however, I have not been able to find this modern appendix, which in my humble opinion savours more of papery than utility. To close God's worship with a song or prayer in which His blessings are invoked is not only fit but extremely proper. Till then the assembly listens with a profound respect worthy of the service in which they [are?] employed, but during the time of benediction all are on tiptoe and the bustle of preparation is heard throughout the church. In fact one might judge from observation that this little appurtenance was designed for the purpose of giving the men time to get their hats, and the women time to adjust their apparel. Apply the shears to this excrescence. 

Monday November 1 7, 1834. Not recovered from the effects of my cold so much as to venture outdoors. Endeavour to "Drive dull care away" by an old 3-stringed fiddle and one vol. Shakespeare. Dant hope to resume my studies this collegiate term, which I wished to close with the same success as former terms; be it as it may, by the blessings of good health and a small share of industry I have maintained a reputable station in my class as scholar; yea, in the opinion of the college--the first station, by what right I will not say. 
Now if fortune do frown a little, I will not complain after having been at ease and thrived so long in her smiles. The habits, not a reputation acquired in college, will cheifly affect the character of a man in subsequent life. Who will ever know what I have been --a scholar--at college? unless my present acquirements give me notoriety, what will? The past surely not 
In respect to all my college honours I may say as Cardinal Wolsey, "Nay, then, farewell. I have reached the highest point of all my greatness. And, from that full meridian of my glory, I haste now to my setting; I shall fall like a bright exhalation in the evening, And no man see me more." 
Tuesday November 18, 1834. I must confess that I am hard run for "matter," as the publisher would say; unless I reiterate what has been said herein a thousand and one times already, I must throw up my daily exercise which amongst others I esteem one of the most useful. This diary is a complete mirror of my mind just as truly displaying the march and progressive attainments of the intellect within me as the looking glass exhibits the image of the beholder. I do not pretend indeed that these voluminous scrawls reflect any honor upon me; nay, I feel ashamed often in the retrospection of my efforts, which savour more of negligence than ability. I never hope to be a giant mind, a wonder worker; my attainments will be too humble. 
Wednesday November 19, 1834. "The web of our life is of a mingled yarn." --This comparison of life to a web is one of the most happy of all 

those figures in which Shakespeare abounds. 
Adversity in morals together with all the conditions and circumstances of life help to variegate the mingled yarns of this short web. Life is a chain of unforseen events neither subject to the will of man 
or the accidents of chance but directed by the over-,ruling power of God. 
Thursday November 20, 1834. So long as our will comes not athwart the superior determinations of Providence, as in the minor affairs of life, man seems to be the arbiter of his own fortune, but the Power of a God may be as surely seen in the great events of his existence as in the noble work of Creation. Does not a sparrow fall to the ground without the notice of God? And.does he not exercise a more provident care towards the noblest of his creatures? 
Friday November 21, 1834. lf the acounts of the exit of many noted infidels and wicked men are true (as without doubt they cheifly are), I want no better evidence of the immortality of the soul, the truth of Christ's religion, the effects of which produce so great a triumph in the Christian's death. 
What can produce such unsufferable pangs in the one and such enrapturing prospects in view of the other but the anticipation of unseen realities? The infidel shrinking from the fears of death betrays his own eternity. 
Saturday November 22, 1834. There is that in Hamlets soliloquy which is 
complete for my purpose. 
To be, or not to be, that is the question: 
-Whether 'tis nobler in the mind, to suffer 
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune; 
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles, 
And, by opposing, end them? To die, -to sleep, 
-No more; -and, by a sleep, to say we end 
The heart ache and the thousand natural shocks 
That flesh is heir to, -'tis a consummation 
Devoutly to be wished. To die; -to sleep, 
To sleep! perchance to dream; ay there's the rub 
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come 
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil, 
Must give us pause; There's the respect 
That makes calamity of so long life; 
For who would bear the whips & scorns of time 
The oppressors wrong, the proud man's contumely, 
The pangs of dispised love, the law's delay, 
S43 
The insolence of office, & the spurns That patient merit of the unworthy takes When he himself might his quietus make With a bare bodkin? Who would fardels bear To grunt and sweat under a weary life; But that the dread of something after death, -That undiscovered country from whose bourn No traveller returns -puzzles the will; And makes us rather bear those ills we have Than fly to others that we know not of? Thus conscience does make cowards of us all. 
Sunday November 23, 1834. The sincerest gratitude in my heart is due to God who has so lightly afflicted me, that I am able this day to worship him in his own house, but there is no flesh in my obdurate heart that can feel; f am guilty of the sin of unthankfulness. 
Monday November 24, 1834. 
Problem from Wanzer's Arithmetic 
If a solid globe of glass at the furnace, whose diameter is 8 inches, be blown into a hollow globe untill the shell be but 1/10 inch in thickness, what will then be its diameter and how much wine will it hold? Let x be the diam. of the cavity the x + .2 will be the diam. of the convexity. 
8.**.8. 1 1/3 = the solidity of the solid globe (x + .2).(x + .2) (x + .2) **=contents of tthe cavity of 2 globe] á 6 a globe whose diam is x + .2 x . x . _ . ** = solidity of a globe whose diam. is x now (x+.2).(x+.2).(x+.2) ** -x.x.x.** = 
8.8.1 1/3.**, perform 6 6 operations indicated and eliminating .6x2 
+ .12x = 511.992, x2 + .02x = 853.32 x = -.01 ~/853.32 + .0001 = -.01 ~/853.3201 = -.01 + 29.2116 x = 29.2016 the diameter of cavity (29.2016)3;231=561/2 galls nearly. 
Tuesday November 25, 1834. Good quotations aptly brought into a book, speech, or conversation are decided embellishments; but like the fanciful ornaments of the arts their cheif beauty depends in the skill of the user. Too many, too long, inept or unbeautiful, weary the mind by satiety and destroy the pleasure which their proper use is sure to afford. The best rules for a quotation are those given for an episode. A tedious speaker by one fit citation will often tickle the ears of an audience and cover an ocean of dislike. So a dull author by the same artifice will beguile his readers tedium. Quotation is one of the elements of wit. 

Wednesday November 26, 1834. An illustration of the bad use of citations and their ámanifest ineffectualness on that account is amply shown in the sermons and prayers of the clergy and laity, of whom most of the latter and not a few of the former class are excusable on the score of ignorance. Of what do the ordinary prayers of Christians consist but a mangled mess of murdered quotations which of themselves are often some of the most elegant ideas of the Holy Scriptures, but in unskilful hands[?] are tortured into vacant and unmeaning phrases? Our preachers too quote scriptures, as a clown uses wit, in all places and on all occasions, and so universal is this fault. .. 
Thursday November 27, 1834 .... that whenever a minister of the Gospel cites with skill and judgement he is the subject of talk and admiration. I think Elder Welch to be more happy in this respect of any preacher I ever heard; he embellishes his sermons mostly with proper scriptures but even dares to draw from other fountains which to some men would seem impious. I once heard him quote from Shakspeare in the midst of an elegant strain of oratory; and who that heard did not feel? I heartily approve this practice which puts into the hand a mighty weapon hitherto little used. 
Friday November 28, 1834. As I have hitherto made this the depository of my own thought, so I do intend as occasion offers to register herein some of the elegant ideas which I may gather from others. To cull the beauties and criticize the faults of any author is a useful entertainment, altho' to be a public reviewer and a retailer of great mens ideas is but mean business. By a retailer I mean one who cruelly mars the works of others by dissevering parts intimately connected and from these "disjecta membra" of the author serving up a nice dish of dainty bits in the form and title of "Beauties" of such and such a man. Some men itch to have their names in a book. 
Saturday November 29, 1834. In Shakespeares comedy called "Taming of the Shrew" are the following lines which for the justness of the sentiment and the beauty of the language I will transcribe: 
-'Tis the mind that makes the body rich 
And just as the sun breaks thro' the darkest clouds 
So honor peareth in the meanest habit. ' 
What, is the jay more precious than the lark 
Because his feathers are more beautiful? 
Or is the adder better than the eel, 
Because his painted skin contents the eye? 
Oh, no.----------.

Sabbath November 30, 1834. Mr. Gillett being absent at New York, we have no preaching at our church. Heard Mr. Van Vechten of the Dutch Church. The Devil has an almost undisputed reign amongst us now. 
Monday December 1, 1834. Last week the collegiate term closed; today scarce a student is to be seen, he leaps like a young colt from his confinement but returns as gladly when the short space of a vacation closed. Any place is a heaven to him when present but College, any labour a relief if it be not study. He waits impatiently till he arrives to the stature of a man, and pants to make his debut upon the great stage of the world. 
Tuesday December 2, 1834. Misled soul! Think you that the experience of age confirms the anticipations of youth! or that happy dreams prove one day realities? The aged tell us that youth is vanity and old age a sore evil. Does the strippling believe that? Nay. It is in this as in many other matters; he will not learn but by dear experience. 
The student will never attain a period in subsequent life when he can say, "This is happiness more pure, more constant than that which I enjoyed under the smiles of my Alma Mater." 
Wednesday December 3, 1834. The "Durapians" are proverbial for their want of a literary taste and till very late have had neither Library or Lyceum. This fond love for ignorance, however, may not be wondered at when we know that the majority of them are Dutch. A Lyceum was established this fall, and this word is of Greek origin. Lycaeum was a delightful place upon the banks of the Illissus in Attica and, combining the twofold advantage of health and retirement, was chosen by Aristotle as a place of abode where he taught Philosophy to his disciples. Our Lyceum not only derives its name but character from that of Greece. All the .talent of the city and College are engaged and the lectures will be free; in fact, this is the only arrangement that could advantageously be made at present, for the Duripians will hardly be willing to attend gratis. 
Thursday December 4, 1834. This idea of Lyceum is an admirable thing especially in cities where the great mass of people, young men particularly, for the want of better employment for their leisure evenings are often induced to go to theatres, brothels and other dangerous haunts, when if a more rational amusement were afforded they would never commit so great a sin. The only true way of preventing the frequentation of dangerous places is by bringing some more in[n]ocent entertainment into compet[it]ion with their forbidden pleasures. Lyceums have proved pretty successful rivals. 

Friday December 5, 1834. Hitherto 2 little dirty sheets have been published in this city, little I believe to its honour or edification. Mr. G. F. Yates, having become proprietor of one, promises in a prospectus which I have lately seen to issue a newspaper after the first of January oná an enlarged sheet and of a more approved character. The same gentlemen was the prime mover of the Lyceum and has lately at his own expense erected an academy building which is not only an ornament but decided benefit to the city. He deserves much credit of his Dutch brethren. 
Saturday December 6, 1834. A glaring fault in Shakespeare['s] writing is his immoderate use of the parenthesis which, altho' it is questionable whether it may not be altogether banished, should be used very sparingly. His explanatory sentences are often so long that the reader must go back to resume the subject which is thereby interupted. Indeed he defeats his own purpose and obscures rather than illustrates. 
Sunday December 7, 1834. We were disappointed in not hearing Dr. Proudfit preach for our church. Held a prayer meeting. Mr. Gillett, commissioned by the church to obtain contributions in New York, Boston and Philadelphia for the liqu[i]dation of our debt, will not return probably within a month. 
Monday December 8, 1834. Musical boxes. 
These very beautiful and ingenious peices of mechanism, which are found in almost every watch-makers shop, are made in France. In the softness of their tones they excel if it were possible the sweet vibrations of the Aeolian harp. The principles of their construction, altho' to appearance exceedingly complicated, are in fact very simple, which together with some 
of the important parts and their offices I will attempt to describe. That portion of this machine by which the sounds are produced I deem not only the most important in its design but n[ot?] difficult in its structure. It consists of a set of paralel steel tines varying in length from 3/4 to 1 1/2 inch, and in number according to the "exigences of the case." These are firmly secured ... 
Tuesday December 9, 1834 ..... by one end to the base of the instrument, with the other ends being free to vibrate. Now it is easy to conceive that the tines being of the same length, the longest, or their lengths being the same, the thin[n]est, will make the deepest tones. These 2 laws are required in this instrument, and used with such perfect success that one is astonished to hear so wide extremes of high and low notes from so simple a contrivance. Wednesday December 10, 1834 It will be well here to state that the long tines, [in order] that their vibrations may be the fewer and of course their tones deeper, have a small peice of lead fixed to their extremities [on] their undersides and are made very thin towards the shoulders. Here, I conceive, rests the main difficulty, viz. in tuning these delicate little peices of steel; others, however, would suppose that the process of setting the pins in the barrel, which at first sight would seem to be accomplished by trial, requires the highest effort of the artist's skill. I shall soon show that this may be effected with mathematical accuracy after speaking of the means by which the vibrations of the longer tines are stopped, those being of short duration 

á cheifly because they are thicker at the shoulders. The neccessity of these steps will be at once seen. 
Thursday December 11. 1834. Suppose that to one of the tines already in motion one of the pins of the barrel is presented: the consequence is that a sharp clattering is made between them which mars in a measure the melody of the tone. The remedy consists in gl~[e]ing a bit of the pliant film taken from a goose quill to the under side of the tines. 
The barrel is a hollow brass cylinder into which are driven the little brass pins that act upon the tines. The only apparent difficulty in its construction lies in placing these pins, for which difficulty, ... 
Friday December 12, 1834 ... .I think, I have a solution but am not able to say whether it be similar or dissimilar to the Machinists. To take a simple case; let it be required to locate the pins for one part of a tune, the other parts being subject to the like conditions. Begin by dividing the exterior surface of the barrel by lines paralel to the axis into as many parts as there are measures in the tune (supposing you wish it to be played through by one revo[lu]tion) and also by lines perpendicular to the axis at a distance from each other corresponding to that of the tines, and in number equal to those of the staff together with the le[d]gerlines if any are required. 
Saturday December 13, 1834. Having delineated a staff and its bars, nothing more is to be done but to write the notes or, in other words, to set the pins. Keeping in mind this obvious law that the distance between lines paralel to the axis and passing thro' 2 adjacent pins must correspond to the length of the sounds of the 2 notes in the music book, which are represented by these 2 pins. Place the first pin in every measure upon the bar. But I will illustrate this more fully Monday. 
St./-8 
Sunday December 14, 1834. After many attempts during the past week to obtain a preacher of our own denomination, all of which trials were fruitless, we luckily obtained the service of Dr. Proudfit, the Dr. being a dull old "prover" like most of our preachers in Schen'y. I went to hear Mr. Van Vechten, of two evils choosing the least. His subject was "The difference between men and angels." 
Sunday evening, 10 o'clock, Mercury in thermometer stands 3 below zero, 
the temperature having changed 41 [degrees] in 24 hours. 
Monday December 15, 1834. Saturday's subject I will illustrate thus: 
0 R 
p 
Q 
Suppose this piece of paper OPQR to be the exterior surface of the cylinder extended upon a plane with its staff measures etc. as we have before described. In this Tune 3 unison fill a measure. The dot A, representing a unison which in the music book must be sounded 1/3 as long as a note which fill[s] a measure, is consequently placed 1/3 of [the] distance ab or 1/3 of the length of a measure from ... 
Tuesday December 16, 1834 .... the preceding dot B, which being a semi.breve in the music book must have a space between it and the preceding dot C equal to 2/3 ab and so on throughout the tune. This peice of paper might be glued upon a cylinder, the position of each pin marked and then taken off and the pins set, but in manufactories it is probable that the whole is done by a machine which may be very easily constructed from the foregoing principles. 
Wednesday December 17, 1834. These boxes usually play 3 or 4 tunes with one barrel which is so constructed as to slide longitudinally upon its axis. The machinery is put in motion by a spiral spring which, with a few wheels moving a regulator, and those parts we have before described, constitute the whole of this simple but beautiful peice of mechanism. 
Thursday December 18, 1834. Problem. There are 3 horses, belonging to 3 men employed to draw a load of plaster from Boston to Windsor for $26.45. A's & B's horses together are 


S4-9 
supposed to do 3/4 of the work, A's & C's 9/10, B's & C's 13/20. They are to be paid proportionally. What is each ones share of the money? Ans. A's $11.50 = 10/23; B's$ 5.75 = 5/23; C's$ 9.20 = 8/23. 
This problem, which is extremely simple when rightly enunciated, has cost me more labour than any problem I ever attempted to solve. Having confidence in the truth of the author's answers, I was unable to reconcile them with the conditions of the problem which I read and reread to see what hidden condition I had not considered. The puzzle lies in the word "supposed" which instead of being taken in the mathematical acceptation is used in the common sense of the term. The quantities 3/4, 9/10 and 13/20 do not show the actual amount of labour performed by these horses, taken 2 and 2, but the relation which these respective performances bear to each other. This becomes more evident ... 
Friday December 19, 1834 . ... by considering these data as actual labour performed, and finding according to this hypothesis what amount of labour the 3 horses do together. They not only perform the whole work but a little more. This exposition is sufficient. 
Saturday December 20, 1834. The motion of projectiles, treated in that part of Mechanics called Dynamics, is a subject which is pleasing not only for the beauty of its theory but for the extensiveness of its practical application. This motion is produced by the resultant of 2 forces, the one constantly acting under the same laws of gravity and the other as a single impulse. The trajectory of a projectile is a parabola whose curvature is greater or less according to the force with which the body is thrown. The greater the force, the less the curvature and vice versa. Almost every step I take somehing reminds me of this subject. 
The paths of the shuttlecock and base-ball, impelled by the battledore and club, are beautiful examples of the parabola; so also the ball thrown from the musket and the bombs from the mortar describe the same curve. The thoughtless school boy with a snowball or stone and the dirty tobacco-chewer -spurting his filthy spittle unconsciously describe innumerable parabolas. Air of course is here left out of the account: it however very materially alters the character of the curve but offers a resistance so variable that it can never be reckoned among the other conditions to which this curve is subjected. 
Sunday December 21, 1834. Again we have no preaching; listened to a sermon delivered by Mr. Van Vechten on this subject, "The Characteristics of a Christian." 
As usual I shall attend the Factory Sabbath school in the afternoon 

during the winter. 'Tis a pleasant task altho' a matter of some self-denial. 
Monday December 22, 1834. My study purposing to make only one recitation a day during the approaching Collegiate term, I have fitted up a room at home. Altho' scanty in furniture and dimensions, it is all that a scholar needs. My little stove warms me, my old fiddle cheers me and my shelf of books feed me; seated in my antique armed chair I can say with Robinson Crusoe,"I am monarch of all I survey." What need of more? If my wealth is small, so are my wants; riches bring cares and cares, discontent. 
Tuesday December 23, 1834. Attended the examination of the boarding school misses. The exercizes of this day were cheifly an exhibition of their proficiency in music and composi[ti]on, highly creditable to themselves and their instructresses. The specimens in composition were not generally characterized by much originality of thought or diction, indeed they were just such as we should expect from young girls whose minds are yet in embryo. The subjects being trite, their ideas were commonplace, yet every sentence breathed the sentimentality of woman. The melt-... 
Wednesday December 24, 1834 ... .ing pathos, the frequent exclamation, and a religiousness mingled with simplicity bespoke a feminine author. I will not be guilty, however, of attributing that to youthfulness which originates in the mistaken fondness of doating mothers who educate their daughters to dazzle rather than shine, and to please. Music is a pleasing art, so painting and dancing, but should be the embellishments, not the substance, of a young lady's education. 
Thursday December 25, 1834. Christmas and New Year's Day, with New Yorkers, are the 2 greatest festivals in the year. In the church they are observed with appropriate religious ceremonies and in the state they are celebrated by all the festivities which plenty and good society can afford. By the younger part of community the "Holidays" which are anticipated with a pleasing interest, are begun with sleigh riding, visiting and feasting and ended by an evening party. All work is suspended and conviviality becomes the order of the day. These festivals are the schoolboy's jubilee when he is sure to have his pockets filled with coppers and his stocking with sugar candy. No one, I am sure, can be so shortsighted as to say that they have not a manifest good tendancy upon Society. A few ins. of snow which fell last evening makes a merry Christmas. 
Friday December 26, 1834. 
Marriage is a matter of more worth 
SSI 
than to be dealt in by attorneyship. 
For what is wedlock forced but a hell, 
An age of discord and continual strife? 
Whereas the contrary bringeth forth bliss 
and is a patron of celestial peace. 
Henry VI, Act V. 
The purest and holiest friendships which have ever originated in true affection exist between man and woman united by bond of marriage. Indeed man might wonder if this institution, which bears marks of divine workmanship, should produce fruits of a less heavenly nature, altho' like himself, the image of the Almighty, it is perverted from its original purity. So common are the evils of a unhappy marriage, that it has got to be a proverb that the wife hates her husband and he wishes her to the devil. The frequency of domestic discord, however, should not cause us to despise this holy rite, but to be more cautious in entering it. 
December 27, 1834 .. Sober and deliberate reason should be the go-between of every happy marriage, love and a fitness of ages and dispositions, the qualifications. It is an old and foolish opinion that Love should be the match maker but who or what is Love? The antients tell us that it is a blind boy. Pope says 
Lust thro' some certain strainers well-refined Is gentle love and charms all womankind. 
They both are most admirable definitions of Love, such as accord perfectly with all experience in marriages consummated by this blind little puppy who has caused more family broils and damned more souls than all the intemperance of modern days! 
Those parties who are brought together by Him live happily till the honey-month is past. Then he leaves them, and discontent, sour looks, bickering, to go with other concomitants of an ill-matched pair, immediately follow. 
The husband seeks more agreeable company in the grog shop and the wife makes him a cuckold by finding another bedfellow. But the union which is founded not only upon love but a suitableness of conditions subsists when love's fires are wasted and his acts cease to be. performed; time strengthens it. A good wife is the complete counterpart of husband both in body and soul. She strives to please and profit him by studying his 
disposition and interest. When sick she cherishes, when sad she cheers him, watches every want, anticipates every wish. She turns away wrath by a soft answer and calms the ruffled passions of her husband by unceasing 
acts of kindness. No wonder that Solomon prized a good wife above rubies! She is one of the dearest gifts ever bestowed upon man. 
I am aware that our modern lovers, full of melting sighs and vows, would heart[i] ly object to the definition of love here adopted. They call love a pure and holy passion made up of "esteem, benevolence and animal desire," but whether upon analysing it we find anything but "refined lust" is a matter of great doubt to my mind. If indeed Love be found in some instances combined with esteem, benevolence, friendship and other gracious affections by which he is tamed, it is much to his credit to be found in such good company. 
Reason will open [the] blind boy's eyes and cure the madness of his 
á deluded victims. When lovers have gone so far as to see each other's faults and be restrained from rushing to each other's arms thro' the hot mania of lust, much has been accomplished in the way of making happy matches. Besides subserving the low cravings of the animal propensities, marriage is made the medium thru' which wealth, honours and titles are bartered. Such unions almost invariably succeed unluck[y]ly. If riches can prove connubial bliss 
"Then two rich mountains of Peru Might rush to wealthy marriage too," 
and form a sea of love. Beauty, honorable ancestry and splendid dower are indeed things "devoutly to be wished" for by every young man or woman who seek for a fortunate alliance. They make life more pleasant and com.fortable but should always be held secondary in importance. 
Sunday December 28, 1834. Fire and loss of lives. 
The cry of fire is terrifying at any time but doubly so in the still night when all is wrapt in slumber; even the solemn death knell sounds not half so awful as the tocsin and midnight firecry. We were called from our beds this morning between 5 and 6 o'clock to a fire in Maiden Lane, but so rapid was the progress-of the flames that before our arrival the house had fallen and buried 3 of the occupants, a mother and 2 children, beneath its smoldering ruins. The building being old and very dry and the fire spread like lightening and probably suffocated these unfortunate individuals almost before they were aware of their danger. If they awoke at all, it was only to feel the pang of a most cruel death. The husband and father barely escaped by rushing thro' the flames and, returning to rescue those who remained, was badly burned. 
Oh what a sermon is this for the people of Schenectady on a Sunday morning! The awful Providences of God speak louder than words. They address us in no doubtful language. The very dwelling which afforded a 

comfortable shelter to these persons proved their funeral pile, and that 
sleep which they had thot' to be short proved eternal. Does not this sudden 
summons of death teach us to be also ready? and not to "count on long 
years of pleasure here"? Every citizen of this wicked city ought to raise a 
grateful heart to God this day that their lot has not been thus miserably to 
perish. "Let the Living Praise thee, 0 Lord! Let the living praise thee." 
Monday December 29, 1834. "Time is money." "Every man is the artificer of his own fortune." Proverbs which are in everybody's mouth but in few men's practice. Time, altho' the only medium thro' which everything agreeable in life or to be desired in eternity can be acheived, is esteemed the greatest bore that afflicts unhappy man. The truth of this assertion may be fully felt in the endless means which he uses to kill time; every amusement that ingenuity can devise, however unprofitable or vicious, is.brought to bear upon the tediousness of time. Sleep is courted as a blessed relief, and thus poor foolish man continues to wear away a life which "hangs heavily upon him" until it is all run out, then he awakes for the first time to acknowledge its value. 
Tuesday December 30, 1834. With regards to all human achievements, it may be said that time improved is the sure passport to greatness. The Rev. John Wesley's motto was "Always in haste but never in a hurry." The whole secret of the immense labors which some men have performed in a short life lies in this short proverb; they gathered up even the crumbs of time that nothing might be lost. A celebrated author is said to have written a book of great merit during the intervals between the calling of his family to dinner and their assembling. 
There is hardly a man who husbands his life so well that he does not lose one hour every day; in one year this loss amounts to 15 days and in 50 years to more than 2 years~ These spent in industrious study would have made him master of any antient or modern language, or a proficient in any art or science. In this time he might have read carefully a library of 200 vols. octavo..
Wednesday December 31, 1834. We count an hour worth but little yet think not that our years are made up of these little portions of time. 
"I've lost a day," the prince who nobly cried Had been an Emperor without his crown." 
As to myself I profess that in will I am most miserly of time whilst in practice a prodigal spendthrift, always about to use all my moments with 

economy, yet never summoning the settled resolution. Aware that I must acquire all the greatness which I may inherit, .I squander the very means which will lead me to fortune. Oh what consummate folly! The lurking sin of idleness cheats me of all that I would be, and makes me what I most dread --"an unknown solitary thing." This is the sun which melts our waxen pinions and lays us low. 
To what future condition in life I may be led, Heaven only knows; the book of fate is hid from all creatures. "but the page prescribed, their present state." 
I could wish, however, to be a great and good man, having a competency of this world's goods, a wife possessed of every grace which adorns the female character, a family of dutiful and well-educated children and a few choice and faithful friends. 
A life devoted to study and literary pursuits would be the profession of my choice. I pray Heaven to fortify my mind against every disappointment in my projects of aggrandizement. 
On Monday evening and Tuesday more than a foot of snow fell. Today the sleigh bells chime merry peals. 

