
Friday January 2, 1835. The mind, that most curious and powerful part of man, is capable of the same degree of improvement in all its functions as the body; its office is to will, judge, conceive &c. and such powers as memory, recollection, reasoning and many others are called its faculties. With regard to my own I will say, after acknowledging my ignorance, that it is of a very ordinary mold; not so much by nature as by bad discipline. A well-trained mind acts steadily and powerfully upon its object, contemplates it in every light, and comes to a conclusion with deep and well-grounded reasons. Now I am aware that mine has but few attributes of such a mind. 
When trying to fathom a subject, like a fool's eyes it will be wandering to the ends of the earth and play the truant in spite of me. Notions produced by a mind so green and untamed must neccessarily be confused. Seeing the lamentable evils of such a loose way of thinking and the incapacity of a mind accustomed thereto to act with power, I conclude that this is an error which demands immediate remedy. 
Saturday January 3, 1834. There is a lamentable want of thought in this world. Every man does as little at it as possible and makes this little go for all that it will fetch. 
The old proverb that Knowledge is Power is a true one, but I say that patient and laborious thought is still more powerful. The professed object of our Colleges is to train young men by teaching Languages, Mathematics, Philosophy and Belles Lettres. How far they 

succeed is best seen in the result; for every instance in which they attain the desired end they fail in 500, not indeed so much thro' any defect in the course pursued as the laziness of the student. He skims along the surface, catching a few facts easy to be comprehended and leaves the great purpose of his education unattained. He forgets that a man is a man only so far as he is exalted by great mental energy. 
Sunday January 4, 1835. The Bible, aside from the divinity of its origin and the religious doctrines which it teaches, is a more complete picture of human nature than any book which has ever emanated from the human mind; upon its pages we find none of those high-wrought descriptions and that affected passion which so much shock and disgust the mind in many works of our great geniuses, but a charming simplicity and truth to nature pervades áevery paragraph and comma. I was not a little instructed this evening in reviewing the history of the contemporaries, Saul and David, marking the characteristic differences. Both were raised from the same humble condition of shepherds to the throne of Israel and Judah, but their dispositions and capacities for governing were as unlike as light from darkness. 
Saul displayed the perverseness of his nature in almost every act of his reign. By one violation of the divine commands in the matter of the Amal[a]kites his kingdom was wrested from his seed forever. He was excessive, envious, irascible and malicious. In David the opposite virtues of gentleness and forbearance shone with untarnished lustre in all his conduct towards the offended king. The death of Saul disclosed some prominent features in the characters of these 2 personages --the rashness and despair of the one forsaken of the Lord and the nobleness and disin.teredness of the other in lamenting over the death of his cheif enemy by which he was raised to the sovereignty of Israel. In the whole of this little biography I see no improbable event, no unnatural trait of character, and none of the pomp and flourish of language. The Lamentation of David is an exceedingly beautiful and true exhibition of poignant greif. 
Monday January 5, 1835. During the 2 days past weather has been growing colder untill the thermometer stood at 32 below zero! an extreme which perhaps has not been felt in our climate these 50 years. 
Yesterday the churches were nearly unoccupied and the streets deserted; the cold dreary look of everything outdoors reminded me strongly of Lapland where the drinking cup adheres to the Laplander's lips and the fire is frozen stiff on the hearth. This bitter weather is most cruel to the young ladies whom it has wantonly deflowered, and left to weep over their former pride. "Jack Frost has passed scarcely a hot-house in Schenectady, I presume whose flowers he has not rifled. 

Tuesday, January 6, 1835. Indolence makes ignorance, and ignorance brings shame. Were it not that my diary is written for the inspection of my own eye and the improvement of my own mind, I should be ashamed of the vanity and egotism which are exhibited in my scribblings. Disregarding this, however, I will mention a source of still greater mortification --my humiliating ignorance. Every day adds an increase of regret to the accumulation of the past and witnesses my reiterated determinations to redeem time gone by, [by] frugal and judicious use of the future. Ignorance which grows from a want of proper advantages is to be lamented but not despised; it is the abuse of means adequate to great literary acquirements and to all the elevated pleasures of a refined mind that merits the compunctions of conscience and the blush of shame. Now although I cannot accuse myself of misemploying my exalted privileges beyond measure nor of being unlettered above my fellows, yet this has but little consolation in the thought. 
Wednesday January 7, 1835. I wish to adopt no such stinted dimensions for the stature of my mind as that of comparing it with other minds. I say "I wish not" because I cannot say "I will not"; I am not my own man. Sloth has held me captive, weakness and indecision mark all my movements, pain and regret follow in their train. The presence of a superior shames me because their power reproves my imbecility; my inferiors humble me because I reflect how little better I am than they. It grieves me not so much to be what I am as to think what I might have been. The dullness of my intellect and the powerlessness of my mind are misfortunes referrable rather to my indolent disposition than to any perverseness in nature. 
Thursday January 8, 1835. All students have an inveterate appetite for criticism as a necessary consequence of pedantry and literary pride. This habit of censuring the performances of others is with them degraded to a vice, and as such is a sure indication of a small mind. The field of their vision being narrow, they see only in part, their opinions are distorted by vanity and prejudice, and their indiscriminate strictures of matters and things tell miserably upon their judgement. The true critic comprehends a whole subject at once and is general in his criticism; our bird's eye censor can see only mites and things of no special consequence. 

Friday January 9, 1835. Amos Dean Esq. delivered a lecture on Phrenology last Wednesday evening introductory to a course. From his well known talents we may expect much information upon this interesting subject which, in the hands of Drs. Gall and Spurzheim has grown into a new and popular science. As yet I have read none of their works and consequently am poorly fitted to pass my judgement upon the merits or demerits of the new theory, but so far as its doctrines have been made known to me through the medium of others I cordially approve of them. Indeed this system is so simple and the hitherto obscure science of the mind is so admirably deleloped upon its principles that I believe it will prevail and soon be universally adopted. 
Saturday January 10, 1835. During the past week we have had a season or severe cold weather such as we seldom experience. If we do not have a thaw soon, not a drop of water will be found in our wells, which are nearly dry throughout the city. The ground froze early in the winter before any considerable rain had fallen. Since that time we have had neither showers nor thaws by which the exhausted fountains might be replenished. 
Sunday January 11, 1835. Weather moderated. Heard a sermon upon practical atheism by Dr. Proudfit. The retrospection of every passing day reminds me of the depravity of my heart. The painful lessons which experience daily teaches humble me in the dust before God and take away all my vainglorying. My life is a woeful picture of the foul workings of my unholy passions, I shrink from its contemplalion with horror, I loath and fear myself, I can trust nothing but conscience, which faithfully warns and exhorts me to duty. My crimes humble me, my pride humbles me, my ignorance humbles me, and my utter inferiority in all respects humbles me. What have I to boast of. Wealth? Learning? Holiness? Power? Nay, I am poor in alL My best possession is but dirt; my greatest power, weakness. 
Monday January 12, 1835. This is the happy prelude of many pleasant days, I hope, after a week of uncommon severity of weather. Every newspaper gives fresh accounts of the coldness of the winter. I have collected the following: in thermometer stood New York 5-below O -.harbor frozen, not so cold since 1817; Albany 32 -9 --lower than 1817, not so cold these SO years; New Haven* 23 --not so cold since 1780, harbor frozen, 18 in. snow; Hartford 2 7; Boston 15 --harbor frozen, 1 ft. 
SS8 
snow; Worcester 19; Portland 24 --harbor frozen; Washington 16--harbor frozen, coldest weather ever known; Baltimore 10--harbor frozen; Montreal 35--within 5 degrees of freezing ; Saco. Me. 28, Portsmouth 20, Salem 17, Newbury Point 13, harbor frozen; Lowell 24, Concord Mass., 27, Dorchester(Lower Mills) 22; Goshen N.Y.32, Newark 13, Philadelphia 4 -.harbor frozen; New Bedford --harbor frozen; Schenectady 3 2--, Maj. Holland says above 33. * Prof. Silliman's thermometer at eight o'clock on Monday morning was 3 3 below 0. 
A gentleman who has been in the habit of making notation of the weather for forty-four years informs us that he never knew mercury before more than 16 below the cypher. The famed cold winter of '79-'80, according to the notes of Prof. Stiles in the month of January, was only 19. 
(N. Haven Herald.) 
Tuesday January 13, 1835. One Fowler, a Phrenologist who is at present 
feeling the "bumps" of the Duripians at two pence a head gave a public 
lecture this evening at the City Hall to a large assembly. 
The fellow undoubtedly knows something of the science, so far as he has verified a little theoretic knowledge by extensive experiments, sure grounds for truth indeed; but has hardly the talents to please a learned audience. This infant science just coming from the hands of its inventors has grown to an astonishing stature and under the fostering care of future masters is destined to make further advances towards maturity. Such silly-pated men, however, as go about the country like jugglers and fortune-tellers for no better purpose than to get money, although professedly as lecturers, degrade the science and render it unpopular. I rather pitied than despised the present teacher of Phrenology for his failure and was really sorry that he either did not know his subject better or had not engaged a business more nearly corresponding with its talents. 
It is difficult to say, however, whether he has shown more folly in attempting to teach a subject which he understands but imperfectly, or more wisdom in turning that most powerful principle of human nature -.curiosity--to his own pecuniary advantage. The thing takes with astonishing success among the common people; they flock to him in great numbers to have the phrenologist tell them what they are, without any other motive on earth, only to gratify their curiosity. 
Wednesday January 14, 1835. At one o'clock Prof. Potter lectured before the senior class on History. He proposes first to speak of the objects and uses of History as a study. 
The advantages of this branch of knowledge are numerous, one of the most prominent of which is the aid which it imparts in our study of human nature. 

This hackneyed phrase of Pope is indeed a good one:"The proper study of mankind is man"; but he who reposes upon his own consciousness and confines his researches within the narrow bounds of his own experience will hardly attain to any degree of excellence in this difficult science. His knowledge is not general but particular. The field of his vision is narrow; he makes himself the criterion by which he judges of all men, whereas he should have contemplated them as they have existed in all ages and countries under every government and religion. Besides failing to know what is the common nature of man he can,not but miscarry in attempting to judge of him as a social being without benefits of History. 
It is one of the more important offices of this study to develop the causes of great events by tracing them to those principles according to which men act in an associated state. Last of all, the light of History is indispensable in taking that wide and general view of the whole human race and their progress or recessions in civilization and improvement, sometimes called the Philosophy of Mankind. 
Universal Histories are capital helps in studying man under the last.mentioned light, an idea which till the beginning of the 18th century never once entered the mind of the antients. One cause for this may be found in their ignorance of all those great events and revolutions which transpired without the limits of their own country. The Greeks and Romans affected to despise all neighboring nations, calling them barbarians; and surely we can not think they would interest themselves about the history of a world which was so mean in their estimation. Rained during the day. 
Thursday January 15, 1835. How variable are the feelings of man! He is capable of the highest elevation of joy or the lowest depth of sorrow. When hope flatters and fortune smiles, his heart is elated with pleasure which in one short moment may flee away. I see how treacherous I am to myself and my God in permitting my passions to be masters. Through them, how I wrong every better feeling of my nature and pierce myself through with many sorrows! 
Friday January L6, 1835. Snow and water knee-deep in the streets. Can't get out. Rather dyspeptic, pain in left side, feel lonesome, "down to the heel, got the blues." Oh what a wretched affliction! 
It is a great error in the conduct of travellers that they pass through the world with their eyes shut. They are pleased with every beauty and filled with admiration at every novelty which their journeys afford but after all know little or nothing of the countries thro' which they have passed. 
I have been led to this observation by my own experience, forgetting the great objects and benefits of travelling, which are solid information as well as pleasure. I have been in my short tours like a green country fellow who at his first visit to the city is amazed at all he sees. His is an ignorant, idle curiosity which produces no better results than the pleasure of gratifying it; whereas that alone is commendable which incites us to search after hidden knowledge. 

Saturday January 17, 1835. I copied the following from a late newspaper: Frozen Quicksilver. "There has never to our knowledge been so great a degree of cold registered in any part of the U.S. as that on Sunday last at New Lebanon in this state. At five o'clock on that morning the mercury had sunk to 39 below O and became congealed and immovable." (N.Y. Commercial Advertiser) 
The freezing point of mercury has hitherto been fixed by philosophers at from 40 to 42 below 0. The foregoing fact will therefore seem to indicate either that the mercury was bad or that the point of its congelation is put too low. 
Sunday January 18, 1835. Daily experience teaches us the impotency of all compulsory measures in producing any moral reform in the human mind. It is a principle of man's nature to oppugn anything which looks like an infringement upon his free voluntary agency. You may coax but not drive him, you may overpower him by physical force and not subdue the obstinacy of his mind. Herein then consists the perfection of that most admirable of all studies, Human Nature, to affect the heart. When you have gained complete supremacy over the corporal man and rendered all his external acts subject to your rod, you have power only over the least and baser part of his nature! 
Monday January 19, 1835. I have been led to make these reflections from the utter folly which I have seen manifested by those men who are located in different parts of the Methodist Chapel of Sunday evenings to keep order in the congregation. 
These monitors usually stand during the whole service and scrutinize the movements of every man, woman, and child within the sphere of his circumspection, and if perchance anyone is caught communicating with his neighbor, either by word, smile or ogle, woe betide him. The sexton bawls lustily to him to stop or else drags him unceremoniously out of the Chapel. 
Their congregation was thrown into entire confusion last evening by an occurence of a similar character. It appears that a young man upon the floor of the Chapel was observed to speak to a companion, by an old fellow in the gallery, who promptly called him to order, at the same time speaking his name with a loud voice. The former, not relishing such public insult and exposure in the presence of so numerous an assembly, did not readily obey. Forthwith "old Hanks" descended in wrath and after much resistance and many hard words succeeded in dragging the offender from the house. 

Now let any one imagine what must have been the excitement in this congregation, with the females in particular. If the speaker had caught up any of his auditors' hearts to the third heaven by the charms of his eloquence (which I very much doubt), how soon were they let down again by this rash and unadvisable step. 
"Thank God, brethren," says he as the sexton closed the door upon the young fellow, "that he is not cast into hell!" The remainder of his sermon was like an idle tale to the people, who listened with great impatience. 
Tuesday January 20, 1835. It has been an error in the economy of my past life, and one which I wish every individual might shun, that I .have acted hitherto without any steeled object in view. My determinations have only been of a negative character. I have decided to study neither law, physic or theology and as for becoming a pedagogue for life, the thought makes me shrink from so unenviable a task. An active life would not only be most agreeable to my wishes but most favorable to my health, although in case no profession more cordial presented itself I would resort to that of a teacher. 
Wednesday January 21, 1835. It is now several months since discontent has brooded over my mind, which has been hurried to and fro and kept as unstable as the troubled sea, by the conflicting and undecided resolutions arising therein. I desire to select an employment, to build me a nest and to choose a partner, and to gain an honorable name and competency of this world's goods against a rainy day but, shameful as it is, I must confess that weakness and indecision mark all my resolution and imbecillity my best efforts. It is humbling to one's pride to acknowledge his mental incapacity, yet verily I must do it. 
Thursday Januacy 22, 1835. My whole life thus far has taught me this [important?] revolting truth, that I am deficient in firmness and decision. I am the sport of circumstances which I can neither control nor appropriate. I have been thinking some days of applying to the Secretary of Navy for the Tutorship of Mathematics on board of a U. S. ship of War. Upon mature deliberation the thing suits me so well that without further delay I am resolved to consult Dr. Nott and ask his intercession in my behalf. The motive which has chiefly actuated me to make this choice is the desire of seeing the world and improving my mind by travelling. 

Friday January 23, 1835. To a young man who has no other means of accomplishing this laudable object, the Navy offers considerable advantages, especially if he has the good fortune to get on the Mediterranean station. The duties of the schoolmaster are light, he has a decent salary and the privilege when in port of taking long furloughs for the purpose of travelling the country. 
Saturday January 24, 1835. In thinking of that "undiscovered country" which lies hid in the womb of the futurity to be revealed only by death, I have often fancied that even so unworthy a principle as curiosity as well as the anticipated prospects of eternal ineffable joy might in no small degree tempt a man to die. I know not how other men feel in prospect of the future, the hidden mysteries of eternity, but as for myself these queries occur almost daily to me: "What lies beyond the narrow bourne of this little life?" "From what happy scenes, what clear skies, what pure air does this gross veil of flesh hinder the immortal spirit?" Yea and sometimes when looking out into the illimitable region of the ... 
Sunday January 25, 1835 ... "starry hosts," has not my soul longed to follow imagination in her rapid flight [to] visit the stars, the planets, and search for the bounds of creation and the bright court of the Almighty! 
In one moment after death, disengaged from this vile clay, my mind will grow to an angel's stature and bound away into unknown realms, where mortal eye never pierced, where his imagination never travelled. Oh! what glorious things must those be which have never yet been conceived of by the deep searching heart of man! What a boundless, fathomless ocean of knowledge remains yet to be expored by his enquiring spirit! 
Monday January 26, 1835. Through imprudence in not taking sufficient exercise I have again induced a pain in my side, dyspepsia, and all the distressing concomitants of sleepless nights and depressed spirits. My courage and resolutions for study have left me; it is best they have, perhaps, for what could they accomplish without health. 
Tuesday January 27, 1835. 1 have seen this memorandum hanging upon my commonplace wire these two months: "Describe characters of some classmates" but have hitherto refrained from noticing it on account of the difficulty of the task. 
This kind of writing--character painting--is one of the most unsuccessful species of composition, and none but geniuses of the highest order have ever succeeded in it. Shakespeare delineates personal peculiarities with a skilful hand and not unfrequently introduces you to a better-drawn character, by a short dialogue or by one sentence, than 

ordinary writers could by pages of elaborate composition. 
Wednesday January 28, 1835. Although fully aware of the impotency of my pen to write anything fit to be read by others, much less this species of writing, I intend to take down a few notes which shall at some future period serve to recall the peculiarities of a select company of college friends. 
My chum "Bob Strong" is a dapper little man of small stature, but great good sense. We have burrowed together during our whole sojourn in College, above three years, in all of which time we have not had so much as one quarrel or angry dispute, a circumstance highly creditable to his good nature, considering the irascibleness of my disposition. He has good natural talents, a high character as a scholar and much of the business-man about him. He did not get his lessons so well as I, but was a better penman, more.neat and orderly in his domestic affairs and a more intriguing politician. If he do not arrive at very great eminence in his (medical*) profession he will at least be a smart, blustering little fellow, a quality which will ensure him success. 
Thursday January 29,1835. Of the five* who composed the freshman class at first --the original of the present Senior Class --James Nichols is perhaps the best. Having come at a late period from the blacksmith forge to his books, he labors under many disadvantages which are not incident upon the lot of the generality of students; altho possessing a strong and vigorous mind, a large share of common sense and sound judgment, his 
* James Nichols, Richard T. Searle, Samuel B. Willis, Isaac Pollard and --Lane. (May 1835 ) 
general literary knowledge is not so extensive as that of many others of inferior natural abilities. He is a Yankee in the true sense of the term: bashful, boorish, and clever, very much improved however by his college intercourse. He has a great share of good humor, a jolly phiz, a laughing eye and all the parts which go to make up a cunning roguish fellow. He is more of a classical scholar than a mathematician, a pretty good composer and a decent speaker. He possesses a good degree of energy, firm-ness, and decision, virtues which ought to be pre-eminent in the Foreign Preacher, a profession that he has adopted. 
Friday, January 30, 1835. His "chum" Isaac Pollard is one of the most unique characters in college. As a linguist and poet we have none superior; the whole beauty and force of his compositions are derived from his vivid imagination; by a proper cultivation of his noble talents he will excel in composiition. Of all the men whom I have ever been acquainted [with] Pollard possesses the greatest share of sensibility. He is sensitive to excess --an incident which by ordinary men would be unnoticed affects him keenly; what is to others a mite is to him a mountain. 

Saturday January 31, 1835. It is not uncommon for him to take to his bed. The distress of his mind completely unnerves his feeble frame and he will be indisposed for some days. He receives as much nursing and as many kind attentions from his friend Nichols as a child; indeed he needs and expects these trifles without which life would be a burthen. Besides being, as the Poet would say, trembling alive all o'er, he is a confirmed bigot. So unalterably fixed is he in every preconceived opinion that, in spite of the untenableness of his positions, all arguments to the contrary only make him the more tenacious. Even his chum, whose absence he can no more endure than a presence, cannot prevail with his obstinacy. 
Sunday February 1, 1835. Every day brings with it a routine of faults, commingled regrets and resolves. When I would do good, evil is present with me. The contemplation of my infirmities oveiwhelms my mind with shame and despair. I dare not ask God to deliver me from evil without first determining in my own mind by his help to cease from sinning. Of the impotency of these resolutions I need no farther proof than my own everyday' s experience. 
Monday February 1, 1835. I will next notice some of the characteristic traits of Alexander H. Curtis, familiarly known in College as "Deacon Curtis." He is a shrewd, cunning, roguish fellow possessing besides decent natural powers a bold, fearless spirit ready for the attempt of whatever his daring mind may suggest. I should think the "Deacon" would choose and succeed in a political life, being a good speaker and in no want of a large share of unyielding confidence and the elements of intrigue. Although I have known him these three years as one of the most mischievous fellows in College yet he stands fair with the faculty whose suspicions he has contrived to elude. 
Tuesday February 3, 1835. I am well satisfied that my notices of the several individuals on the preceding pages are only "skin deep," are in other words [those of] a superficial observer; my knowledge of human nature I own is shoal. I cannot tell what is in a man without the testimonial of the most manifest actions. Many a leading trait in the character of my acquaintances have escaped my observation which, although secret now except to the experienced eye, may in subsequent life change the whole complexion of their existence and bring them on to fame or disgrace. In spite of my short-sightedness and the imperfection of my biographies, I am tempted to go on. 

Wednesday February 4, 1835. A word on Henry Belden of New York. A more jolly, social, frank and generous fellow than this never set foot in Union College. Possessing too much honor to tell a lie and too little cunning to be a rogue, he is peculiarly unlucky in whatever mischief he undertakes. Of his abilities natural and acquired barely say they are not contemptible. 
Thursday February 5, 1835. In justice to the character of Richard L. Searles I must say that he has been very unpopular among students without any adequate cause. His fault was that of involuntary ignorance and a kind of Yankee greenness which always attaches to the manners of a youth but little conversant with men .. BY the kind admonitions of a friend he might have avoided this weight of odium, although in the end he will rise superior to most of those in whose estimation he is now zero. I will just say here that Nichols has said many things highly derogatory to the character of Searles, whom he has held in utter contempt, not that he had ought in malice against him, but (as it should have been mentioned in its place) being too free with the tongue, especially where he has any dislikes which are by no means seldom. 
Friday, February 6, 1835. I will not wholly exculpate myself from blame in this matter. However, Searles stands much higher now in the estimation of his class than formerly. He is an excellent scholar, has a wonderful memory but little judgement. If I mistake not, he bids fair to make a smart man. 
Saturday February 7, 1835. For strength and discipline of mind, for depth of thought and correctness of judgement Villeroy D. Reed has no equal in Union College. He will never be known so much by the brilliancy of his imagination as by the powerfulness of a vigorous intellect. To the rare talent of being both a superior writer and speaker he adds scholarship in every branch of science taught in College. He is pleasing in his manners, winning in his deportment, a gentleman and a Christian. I have been particularly struck with the high sense of independence which he maintains. No act of persuasion can induce him to accept one cent for [from?] his father or to take benefit of the College fund, although urged by the professors for hours at a time. To comply, he thinks, would be to lower himself in his own estimation. 
Sunday February 8, 1835. No preaching in the Baptist Chapel. Heard Backus preach in the Presbyterian. Of a truth I seldom have heard a more 

tedious speaker. His voice is harsh and and grating. His manner and gesticulation are mechanical and still. He reads his sermons, consequently cannot wield the power of eloquence. His compositions might do honor to his talents if pursued by the fireside where what is obscure at a first reading might be made plain by a second, but when delivered from the pulpit, [is] lost at least to one half of his auditors. It is a strange mistake indeed that literary men should suppose that the same style which is admitted in compositions designed for miscellaneous perusal could be consistent with rhetorical compositions. This does not allow long sentences with a multitude of explanatory circumstances, pompous phraseology, and "hard dictionary words"; it is a clear, simple, colloquial style. It must not be supposed, however, that by reason of its simplicity it must necessarily be the less powerful. 
Whoever reads the orations of Demosthenes will see a happy confirmation of what I now say. One wonders that such "easy" language as his, totally devoid of any great ummouthable words, should produce such magnificent results, but when he considers that this simple weapon was wielded by the godlike arm of Demosthenes, his wonder rises to admiration. 
Monday February 9, 1835. In answer to an application made to the Navy Department through Hon. John Cramer M.H.R., I this evening received the following letter: 
Navy Department 5th Feb. 1835. Sir: Your letter of the 27 ultimo with enclosures in your behalf for the appointment of Mathematics has been received. Your application is filed and will be duly considered when a vacancy occurs, which is not the case at present. Yours Respectfully, M. Dickerson. Mr. Jonathan Pearson, Ca-re of Hon. John Cramer, House of Representatives. 
Tuesday February 10, 1835. Mr. Kirk of Albany preached to an overflowing house last evening upon the subject of the foreign distribution of Tracts, preliminary to a contribution which it is proposed to make in aid of the cause. He is a young man near thirty years old and evidently possesses more than ordinary talents for oratory, a large share of originality, and considerable Christian zeal. This latter gift, so necessary to every powerful preacher, has among the "old measure" Christians of Albany procured him many opponents who not only condemned his measures as rash and improper but, till lately when they could with the tide of popular sentiment no longer [do so], have even rated his talents very low. Doubtless he is not now what he will be; the strength and resources of veteran age cannot be consistently expected from youth, but if we may judge ... 

Wednesday February 11 , 1835 .... from youth what will be the condition of mature years I would unhesitatingly say that Mr. Kirk will be a star of the first magnitude. Envy, cruel as the grave, has traduced his character but he shines brighter issuing from such an ordeal and looks down proudly upon his abashed enemies. 
Thursday February 12, 1835. Mr. Dean lectured last evening in his customary good style upon Phrenology. The Durupians are evidently getting a little literary or at least attempting to appear so by flocking in crowds to the Lyceum. Here I will mention that that same Yankee "Fowler" of whom I said (Jan. 13) he showed more cunning in feelings, bumps at two shillings a head, than wisdom in lecturing to a learned audience, has just carried twelve hundred dollars out of Albany as the fruits of a few weeks' conjuring. 
Friday February 13, 1835. Everv sign in our political affairs indicates that we are on the eve of a war with France. The present anticipated rupture between the two nations has grown out of the American claims of indemnification for French spo[li]ations committed during the wars of Bonaparte, which claims having been acknowledged by the ratifaction of a treaty, the French Chamber of Deputies have, for four years, refused to meet by,[?] the requisite appropriations. 
Saturday February 14, 1835. It argues meanly of the gallantry and honor of the French people thus in the face of a solemn convention, in which their faith was pledged, to blot their high reputation by an act contrary to the law of civilized nations. 
Sunday February 15, 1835. It was the custom of days of yore to place a fish upon church spires as a vane, the origin of which Dr. Nott accounted for thus. He says that, the Apostles being fishers of men, our pious fathers put a fish upon their Chapels to show that men were fished there. Whether this be the fact or not, it is truly a fanciful way to account for a practice so vague and unimportant. 
Monday February 16, 1835. Jeremiah S. Eaton is a mixture of strange materials, "good and evil together." I have known him these seven years but never formed any definite opinion relative to his character till chance brought us together at College. He has more talents for music, poetry and the society of women than for those severer studies which call for depth of thought and intensity of application. The sunshine of literature is grateful, because it is with him the poetry of life. He has good talents but no 
f(,8 
decision; he has more imagination than judgement. His mind is the weather-cock of his feelings, unstable and fluctuating. It is a remarkable fact, which my experience has corroborated in the case of others as well as Eaton, that singing masters are all poetry and no mathematics. 
Tuesday February 17, 1835. There is a fellow in our class who, although meanly thought of, possesses the highest order of talents of a certain kind--of contriving and constructing whatever he wishes. Gleason is always found in his room tinkering [with] wooden clocks, mending broken fiddles and india-rubber shoes, making trunks or else thumbing [thrum.ming?] an old spinet which stands in one corner. It is useless for him to think of arriving to eminence in literary life by abandoning that course for which he is evidently adapted by nature, yet so little does he know of his own disposition that he believes himself competent to the ministerial office, the duties of which he can no more fulfill with honor than he cari renovate his nature. This is a faith established by all experience, that the proportion of time lost by men either in professions for which they were not naturally constituted or in the pursuit of novelty bears no comparison. with that little point which is successfully employed by a few individuals in occupations congenial to their dispositions. One of the grand secrets of eminence in life is to cultivate the ruling principle of our mind. 
Wednesday February 18, 1835. The character of some men beams forth from their actions as manifestly as if written with a sunbeam; in the case of others it requires the nicest discrimination to detect their peculiarities. To the former Fenn C. Alvord belongs. He is an industrious student, forever in his room pouring over his books. This is nearly the extent of my knowledge of this Anchorite, who secludes himself entirely from intercourse with his fellow-students and whenever he is seen abroad walks alone in silence. He will make a grave old divine, possessing more selfishness than "milk of human kindness." It will be a wonder if he is ever known beyond the limits of his own parish, in which he will preach and pray and die without one lingering desire to break from the seclusion of his study or the duties of his Church to visit the world beyond. 
Thursday February 19, 1835. Among my College attachments reckon none more happy and honorable than that with Samuel J. McCullough, a man of sterling worth, unsullied character, ardent piety and uncommon mental endowments. He may not make a splendid orator but, if my short vision deceives me not, he will be a good writer and a class thinker. 
Friday February 20, 1835. The old maxim "Say nothing of a man if you 

cannot speak well of him" is a good one for the peaceful regulation of social intercourse but as my Diary meddles with the affairs of others not to their disadvantage but for my own improvement and diversion I shall not hesitate to expose their faults well as their virtues. 
Saturday February 21, 1835. Here is one James B. Townsend in the Senior Class who is particularly unfortunate in possessing a "glib tongue" without a sufficient quantum of brains. In our literary society he displays his talent to considerable advantage in "boring" the members with a regular "Stump Speech" upon every unimportant question which may happen to be agitated, and what he lacks in sense makes up in length. Another marked trait in his character is his self-esteem, which although it be a very necessary ingredient in making up a perfect man becomes an affliction if bestowed in too large quantities. In this respect Townsend is unhappy. If nature had given him more prudence by lessening his self esteem, it might have been more creditable to himself and a relief to those thrown within the sphere of his acquaintance. 
Sunday February 22, 1835. Mr. Gillett, after an absence of twelve weeks, has returned, having spent half his time in New York and the rest in Philadelphia where he received a call from the Church in which Dr. Stoughton was pastor. Whether he accepts or rejects remains yet to be seen. 
Monday February 23, 1835. This day I am twenty-two years old. The anniversary of my birthday proclaims the goodness of God and calls upon me for ample returns of gratitude. His superabounding care over my destinies is the more manifest in proportion as I contemplate the beauty of human existence which from the long period of almost a thousand years has dwindled down to the narrow limits of three score and ten. Inasmuch, then, as life is but a span and its woes and diseases are complicated, its value must be infinitely increased and, of consequence, the debt due to Him who thus protects our precarious existence. Of the average duration of human life I have already spent more than two-thirds [?] in barely an apprenticeship to the business of living --in getting and arranging a little garniture for the mind. 
Tuesday February 24, 1835. I am now just in the perigee of my life, hurried on the swiftest chariot of Time, and who knows but the slender cord which binds me to his wheels may sever and I be hurled into the illimitable regions of eternity. But if it hold me in my orbit during a few more revolutions, Time himself will cut the "brittle thread" to rid him of a useless encumbrance. With regard to man's duty in life, this should be his motto, "multum in parvo," much to be done in a short time. 

Wednesday, February 25, 1835. John Van Antwerp of Schatahacoke is a cool slow-thinking old Dutchman. As a preacher he will never succeed because he has neither life nor imagination; as a theologian he may. Like Alvord he is a better mathematician than poet and might make a competent teacher, but to think of becoming a spirited speaker is absurd in my opinion. So far, well. His most obvious failing, I think, is a pretty large share of self-esteem which shows itself in a confident countenance and a swaggering gait. 
Thursday February 26, 183 5. In addition to the thermometrical register found on page five (January 12) I have collected the following from various papers. This record is for the 4th and 5th of January. 
In Pittsfield Mass. mercury stood at 32 below zero, Haverhill -33, Kinderhook N.Y. -29, Catskill N.Y. -28,1 Utica N.Y. -33. Dunstable N.H.-38, Bangor Me. -39, Dover N.H. -28, Greenfield Ct. -35, Newbury Vt. -33, Kennebeck Me. -35, Pottsville Penn. -24, Charlottesville Ky.-1. 
Friday February 27, 1835. After long anxious expectation the President's Message was received in France on the Sixth of January and produced uncommon sensation among the sensitive Frenchmen. They .speak in terms of the highest indignation of so much yet as relates to the existing differences between the two nations and, if I may take the tone of the leading journals as an indication of their feelings, are by this means averse to war. Not able to deny the sacredness of the treaty and sorely galled by the President's decided language, they are placed in a dilemna: on the one hand, honor calls them to fulfil their Convention; on the other, wounded pride forbids. 
Saturday February 28, 1835. From this the only means of extrication which presents itself to the their minds is to avow the President's Message to be the act of an individual and not the voice of the people. Therefore, if the Chambers grant an appropriation, it will not be from any fear of his threats but from a sense of justice. From the last advices it appears that the excitement has somewhat subsided and that a bill for the payment of the American claims has been presented to the Chamber of Deputies by the Minister of Finances, which will probably pass. It is fondly hoped that this anticipation will be speedily realized; the cause is too paltry for the effusion of blood. 
Sunday March 1, 1835. During the past week the Lord has taken one of our little church to himself and upon this day given us two additional members 
S1\ 
by baptism. His long-suffering mercy and abounding goodness is manifested in all his dealings towards us; if He lightly afflict for a "short moment," it is only that we may be capable of appreciating more fully and gratefully his loving-kindness and tender mercies; if our brethren now and then depart to be at rest, He raiseth up others to fill their places and keep alive the sacred flame of devotion which blazes upon his earthly altars. 
Would that my cold affections might be revived, my love quickened, my heart purged from secret sins and my whole man be renovated and fitted [for] heavenly enjoyments! Alas! that sin should taste sweet which is in in my breast! I shudder at the past and despair of the future. I cannot raise one innocent, confiding look towards God's holy throne; base, vile, devilish iniquity suffuses my cheek with shame and wholly unmans my assurance. Oh God, pardon my daily and outrageous crimes. Mary Ann's birthday, 18 years old. 
Monday March 2,1835. John Nelden, commonly known as " Buster" or "Johnny," is the Jack Falstaff of our class. He is fat, lazy and good-natured, an inveterate tobacco chewer and smoker and a poor scholar. His ruddy countenance, jolly phiz and roguish eye are sure indications that he loves fun and good cheer better than his book. His room, the common lounging-place of all college "loafers," is both dirty and disorderly, illy furnished with a few broken antique chairs, a pine table, and cot. Upon the rough, smoky walls hang a few pictures such as "Jim Crow" and the like, whilst his table is strewn with broken pipes, tobacco, novels and neglected text-books. 
Tuesday March 3, 1835. Between twelve and one o'clock this morning Benedict's Tin Shop on StateáStreet was discovered to be on fire. Ten or twelve adjoining wooden buildings were soon in a blaze, two canal boats and Fuller's brick Drug Shop. A brisk westerly wind, which was blowing at the time, together with the scarcity of water, contributed to make the progress frightfully rapid and where the wasting desolation would have been stayed cannot be predicted had not the conflagration been arrested by-the intervention of the canal. 
The flerce lambent flames, moved to and fro by fitful gusts of wind, cast a glow over surrounding objects, the sky was filled with burning fragments and coals which were borne towards the east with frightful rapidity, kindling upon the roofs in many places to the no small dismay of the trembling inmates; add to this the terror and confusion of those who, residing to the windward of this ocean of flame, were removing their goods to places of safety in momentary expectation of seeing their habitations devoured, and you have a grand and impressive scene. 

Wednesday March 4, 18 3 5. I know of no one character among all my collegiate acquaintances so gloomy, so revolting as that of William H. Carpenter. The dark and cheerless night of scepticism which, without a star of hope, hangs over his mind imparts such a cold and withering aspect to his countenance that the most careless observer may there detect the stamp of infidelity. He knows no one, he associates with no one nor courts anyone; if he walks abroad, his eyes are fixed upon the ground, gazing in utter vacuity. He first openly avowed his scepticism in a composition which he read before the class here. He ridiculed both the Bible and the Christian Religion; subsequently he repeated his blasphemous attacks in a debate. 
Thursday March 5, 1835. James Smith entered our class the first term of the Senior year, consequently has not had a fair opportunity of developing himself. So far, however, as I am capable from so short an acquaintance of forming an opinion, I am inclined to believe him to be young man of talent and promise. He is a good writer and speaker, a ready wit and apt at repartee. 
Friday March 6, 1835. It occurs to me often --when worrying and fretting about my worldly condition, what I shall eat and drink and wherewithal I shall be clothed, how I may perpetuate my name and attain to the perfection of earthly enjoyment --that the chief end of my existence, namely to do good to others, seldom comes among the suggestions of an ambitious mind. What noble souls are those who live for others! who amid the conflicting elements of human passion and human woes forget their own [want] to relieve the want of another! I pray and desire not so much that I may be rich and great as that I may be good and useful. 
Saturday March 7, 1835. I have been amused today in listening to the opinions of many students relative to the forthcoming weather in March, to observe how superficial were their judgements, how useless inattention had made their past experience, and how sanguine they are in the filfullment of their wishes. Because we have sported a few pleasant days and enjoyed a happy foreunner of spring in a warmer sun and a softer air, it is preposterous to think that the transition from winter to spring will be so sudden, that the "fleecy snow" will immediately give place to the fruitful rain. These two seasons must mingle more or less together and the transition be gradual. Nevertheless I could hardly persuade some of my visionaries to the contrary. A brisk fall of snow this evening, however, has completely effected my purpose and brought them to their senses. 
Sunday March 8, 1835. Warm day, cloudy. Snow which fell last night all thawed, this morning streets wet and muddy. Attended church but as 

usual received little or no instruction. The fault is my own although I am ashamed to say it and afraid of the consequences. 
When contemplating my neglect of privilege and contempt of God, my waywardness and habitual practice of heinous offences, I sink into a vile and loathsome creature in my own estimation --a valueless mite floating in the atmosphere for a day and whirled about by every current. Oh! how little religion is there in my own heart, yea in the world! 
It is only by the continual laborious efforts of devout preachers that the dying embers of Christianity are kept alive. Let a man reflect how short this life is, how long and certain that which is in prospect, and if I mistake not "this earth and all which it doth [hold?]" will hardly appear worth a wish, a thought. 
Monday March 9, 1835. The French Question continues to elicit the attention of everybody. In anticipation of the justice which it is hoped the Chamber of Deputies will render to our claims in fulfilling the Treaty of July 1831, Congress has adjourned without acting any further upon this business than resolving to insist upon the fulfillment of the Convention. News from France thus far renders it somewhat probable that the appropriation bill will pass; all strong things hang in suspense and with anxious expectation are awaited the decision of the Chamber which will probably involve two powerful Democratic governments in a bloody warfare. 
Tuesday March 10, 1835. Schenectady has again been visited with the recurrence of another destructive conflagration. The fire was first discovered in Brown's buildings, "Frog Alley, " which together with several others were soon wrapt in flames, and had the wind been as high as last Tuesday morning the city must have witnessed such a desolation as they have not seen this many a year. The fire department of this city is both ill-regulated and inefficient,. the supply of water extremely small, especially at this season, and a large portion of the houses are old and build of wood; under such circumstances we might naturally expect a destructiveness by the immediate removal of the two former causes and by a gradual relief in the latter case. 
Wednesday March 11, 1835. The soft sunny weather such as we have felt today is too good to last long, and inasmuch as it presages a long and dreary spring, I would gladly forego present gratification for sake of an early cessation of cold winter. The following notices of the weather I find in a late paper. 
"Athens, Geo. Feb 12, cold weather. Saturday and Sunday last were the coldest days ever remembered to have been felt in Georgia. On Sunday morning at sunrise the thermometer stood at 8 below zero." "Jamaica 1835, The mercury fell to 52 above zero and the invalids groaned most piteously. Some of the Creoles, who probably never owned a pair of cloth pantaloons, were in a "shocking bad fix." 

Thursday March 12, 1835. A delightful day, charming weather. The streets of Dorp are nothing but an ocean of mud. The relish which the human mind has for the wonderful and extravagant is manifested on all slightest occasions, to be convinced of which we need only have regard to those wild and improbable stories of ghosts and spooks, the universality of incredible traditions and tough legends which might stagger the faith of a Catholic, and the astonishing tortures and amplifications every incident must suffer on passing through the hands of tea-party gossips. Among the vulgar, my short experience has taught me this lesson, that whoever imposes the largest tax upon their faith will be the sooner believed and what wars most against reason and common sense commends itself most readily to their credulity. They seek not the rationale of any hypothesis or phenomena; a mere "ipse dixit" imposes their most unlimited trust. 
Among the multitude of facts which induce the foregoing opinions are the various rumors afloat respecting the recent fire in "Frog Alley." The most reasonable account of its origin seems to be that it kindled from a barrel of ashes carelessly placed in one of the outhouses from which the flames first burst forth; but, because it is a much tougher story and likely to last longer, many are willing to believe that it was the work of some incendiary. Now, although this latter opinion be not at all improbable under certain circumstances, yet when we know that there were fifteen families of reckless Irishmen inhabiting the house from which the fire originated, is it more reasonable to believe that it was set by a villain than that it was the result of sheer carelessness? If any wretch could be so base as to perpetuate an act like this, it must have arisen from malicious motives rather than from the hope of plunder. 
Friday March 13, 1835. Beside the above may be placed the following silly rumor which I find to be very prevalent today, viz. that we are to have another fire the first windy night which, as a stiff west breeze is blowing this evening, must accordingly happen tonight. In anticipation of such an event I am told that watches have been set in various portions of the city for the purpose of safety. How true this is I know not, but that these stories are current and eagerly believed among the vulgar, there is no doubt. If such a deplorable event is to happen, the prophet must undoubtedly be the incendiary. 
Saturday March 14, 1835. It befalls myself as well as others to be fallible 

in all matters of opinion. Perhaps I may be eminently so because I will never believe a thing without good and sufficient reasons. In cure of those rumors which have frightened the good people of Dorp so prodigiously the few days past, I was completely faithless for the very good reason that there was less proof for than against them, until now when unbelief is no longer the part of wisdom. Last evening a fire was discovered in Clute & Bailey's boathouse, which was unquestionably the work of an incendiary, having been traced several rods from the building. It was only the early hour at which it was kindled that saved us from a third conflagration equal to either of the others. 
Sunday March 15, 1835. Life in the anticipation is long and prosperous; in reality, short and full of trouble. We "count on long years of pleasure," build castles apparently above the "sea of troubles," and court for the ephemeral pleasures of life as though its thread were sure to reach from hence to the hundredth generation. If this were the Methuselaian Age, man's folly would be more excusable, but since life is a shadow of which eternity is the enduring substance, since it is but a feather plucked from the broad, swift pinions of Time, nay since this is the least sand upon the shore of the illimitable ocean of eternity: who can exaggerate the contemptible foolishness of that man who selleth his soul for its baubles and gewgaws! 
Monday March 16, 1835. The mild weather and soft breezes of Spring after a dreary winter, both light up a smile on the countenance of man and infuse vigor and elasticity into all his movements. He partakes of the general joy and participates largely in that influence which adorns nature like a bride and brings sweetest music from every grove. Is not spring the jubilee of nature? Many men of correct judgement hold to the opposite opinion. 
Tuesday March 17, 1835. Among the injurious habits into which the young student is liable to fall is that of reading hastily and carelessly, which is akin to a negligent habit of study. The effect of such an error is to make a superficial scholar, a weak, shallow intellect and a lazy, ignorant fellow in his profession. His opinions are entitled to little credit because, in the language of the homely proverb, "he knows but little and what he does know he does not know certainly." Like the epicure he feasts for the immediate gratification of his appetite rather than for an increase in strength and vigor. The careful and observing reader can draw instruction from every book which he takes into his hand to pursue: he criticizes the style and diction of the author, fathoms his depths, or soars aloft with ... 

Wednesday March 18, 1835 .... his imagination and so completely analyzes what he reads that the conclusion to be inferred or the moral to be drawn cannot elude his penetrating vision. He acts according to that excellent proverb, "What is worth doing at all is worth doing well." With regard to myself I am in this thing as in most others both lazy and negligent although these hints occur to me almost as often as I look into a book. I find myself, like the guidepost, pointing toward the desired spot without approaching one inch nearer itself. Yesterday morning it rained just before daylight. Windy. Today the weather is clear and cool, especially in the evening. 
Thursday March 19, 1835. Abstinence is one of the best medicines in the world. I have been taught this by a long and sad experience of dyspepsia and some of its concomitant evils. The quantity of food which a student should consume ought to be in the inverse[?] ratio to his exercise; it should be light and nutritive or, if he will eat all that his appetite craves, let him exert himself three hours a day in some vigorous exercise. I presume that three-fourths of all the members of our American colleges either by indiscretion or laziness contract diseases which more or less afflict them through life. They may not be aware of the silent approaches of the veiled enemy yet his mischief is not the less sure and permanent. In less than a week, by abstinence and proper exercise I have completely quieted a pain in my side which was caused by carelessness and gave me continual trouble. By a similar course I effected the same cure three years ago. Fell last night and this morning from four to six inches of snow. 
Friday March 20, 1835. It occurred to me while reviewing my day's work on the way to meeting last evening, toá keep a daily record of the results of my labor. The proposed object of such a register was to profit by the experience of the past, to incite my mind to nobler efforts and more industrious habits by running over the meager catalogue of its present attainments. But what shall I write of which I shall not be ashamed to read again? I might say that I rolled in feathers till seven o'clock, sawed wood an hour and took breakfast. That I then took up some book of which I read some dozen pages in a careless manner, strolled about town and sawed wood another hour before dinner; that I went "on the hill," lounged about in fellows' rooms boring myself and them till four, sawed wood, took tea, and finally that I went out to meeting or to "make a call," wrote in my diary, went to bed and slept nine hours. This is a pretty true picture of my daily life. Even when uninterruptedly engaged, I do not act with vigor; inefficiency marks all the movements of my mind. 
Laziness causes a man to loath his very life, it fills his heart with repentance and wrings his soul with anguish. Most delightful weather we have enjoyed this spring. Snow all vanished. 

Saturday March 21, 1835. From the little which I have learned of Mineralogy in arranging and labelling a few specimens, I .should judge that it was a valuable and pleasant study. It is doubtless a difficult science, extensive in its application and extremely nice in its distinctions. Like Botany and many other branches of Natural History it is a practical science and requires a man who would become a Mineralogist not to study books so much as Nature herself. In fact it is useless to think of learning it without a cabinet or a good teacher and ample experience. To the man of observation a knowledge of this adds largely to that source of pleasure and interest, the contemplation of nature's works. To the traveller it is indispensable. 
Sunday March 22, 1835. Last night and today there has fallen nearly a foot of hail and snow. 
In spite of the imperfection of our best worship, the coldness of our love and the winning enticements of the world, there is that in the Christian religion which commands our higl?-est admiration and presents itself as the ultimate and only resource of the immortal spirit. Is not prayer one of its most delightful privileges? To commune with God in the stillness of the evening, or return Him thanks in the morning, who would forego the charming exercise? Even in repentance there is a blessing because the humble penitent feels that he sues the pardon of a Gracious Parent. 
Monday March 23, 1835. Cold and blustering. Snow flies. A Concert of Sacred Music was given in the Dutch Church this evening for the relief of the needy sufferers by the late fire in Water Street. The house was crowded and the performance good perhaps, but to me it imparted little pleasure. My feelings are too obtuse, nay nature too rough, to be sensibly affected by the slight and delicate touches of ordinary music. Instrumental martial music better accords with my feelings, such strains as rouse and inspire the soul, --such as would make a man strong in the hour of battle. This I call noble music --fit for a man. The soft and melting notes of the Italian music is better adapted to the female heart. 
Tuesday March 24, 1835. The actual amount of study which a persevering, industrious man can perform in a short life is sufficient to make him a great and learned scholar. I was thinking of the subject this evening by the light of the numbers and found that by learning five pages a day in one year, supposing I studied 250 days, I should have dispatched 1250 pages or 12,500 in ten years, which would be equal to fifty decent sized octavo volumes. All this might be accomplished without interfering with the ordinary affairs of life, miscellaneous studies and general reading. But it must be a man who will shake off the slothfulness of human nature, who will resist the novelties of Literature and the pleasures of inglorious ease, and with an eye fully set upon his object pursue it till the day of its accomplishment. 

Wednesday March 25, 1835. Warm. The sun drinks up the snow very fast. For the purpose of informing myself better regarding the prospect of obtaining an appointment of Midshipmen's Tutor in the Navy I have resolved to go to Brooklyn on Friday. I have obtained a letter of introduction from Prof. Reed to Charles C. Stewart, Chaplain of the Navy Yard, from whom I expect to receive ample information respecting this business. 
Thursday March 26, 1835. I am just at this time pretty hard run for "matter," as the publisher would say, in other words have no new ideas to enter into my Diary. Every notion that floats in my noodle has been written herein a thousand times with all possible changes. I have taxed my wits to their utmost value and after all must proclaim myself bankrupt. Here I can learn the fewness of my ideas --the barrenness of my mind -.and having learned this can see abundant reasons for large exertions and hard thinking. How ashamed it makes me to compare myself with many other young persons who before arriving at my age have done something to make themselves immortal, whose minds have exhibited flashes of genius even before they had laid aside the prattle of childhood. 
Friday March 27, 1835. Weather cool and disagreeable, clouds lowering, threatening rain. At twelve o'clock I started for New York in company with some score or more of crazy students just escaped from under the restraint of college discipline. They were full of noise, vanity, and blew off their steam at a boisterous rate, not more to their own relief than to the inconvenience of others. I could not help observing how much vanity they manifested in striving to make themselves known as stud en ts by conversing loudly upon college affairs before large companies, by literally spreading out their little store of "learned lore" and with disgusting pedantry lavishing their opinions gratuitously on all occasions. They must value their knowledge but slightly indeed when they can thus spend it "dog cheap." 
A journey to New York is really an affair of some consequence to one who has never visited the "Great City." One is apt to meet with a vast many adventures and incidents which furnish him with subjects for marvellous stories. If one has been inclined to believe this a pretty honest world and life all sugar and honey, he thinks quite the contrary by one visit to the metropolis. In fact he learns much every way and may be said just then to get his eyes open. On his way to New York one of the first annoyances with which the traveller meets is the impudence of dock loafers and steamboat runners who stick to you with the most barefaced assurance and scorn to take any denial. After you have worked your way clear through all the crowd and confusion attending an arrival at the steamboat dock and have got safely on board with your baggage, it is ten to one if the berths and settees are not all pre-engaged and you have only the miserable satisfaction of sitting, or more likely of standing up, all night. But even if you are so fortunate as to secure a bed, you are by no means sure of sleeping unless perchance you can slumber in bedlam. The jarring and jamming of the machinery, the jerking of the boat at every revolution of the wheel, the groaning of the timbers and bulkheads and the whissing of the steam form altogether a din which if a man can stop his ear against and sleep I verily believe he might amidst the confusion of a Pandemonium. , 

Add to this the noisy conversation of the passengers in the cabin and heavy tread of the men upon deck together with something like this announced every half-hour from every part of the boat in thundering tones: "Poughkeepsie baggage," "Passengers for Redhook," "Passengers from Newburgh what haven't paid their passage 'ill please to step to the Captain's office and settle," --add this I say and who can sleep? A steamboat laden with the freight of one hundred men of every rank and condition in life, the villain and the honest man, the purse-proud aristocrat and the poor beggar, all mingled together in one motley mass of living, acting beings, presents a picture to the eye of the philosopher of no ordinary interest. 
The aggregation of so many individuals creates a community of feeling and a freedom of conversation. The humble mechanic or the green ploughboy who never before wandered beyond the smoke of his father's cottage feels himself to be a man of as much consequence as the best. He quaffs his glass at the bar and smokes his Havana with an air of comfort and self-complacency which seems to say "Who has a better right? I have paid my dollar." So long as he treads the same plank with men much better conditioned in life than himself and notwithstanding entitled to no better privileges than himself, he rises vastly in his own esteem, he struts, talks big, cocks his hat; yet if you see this same fellow walking the streets of New York the [next?] day after a dirty porter or a swearing cartman he has shrunk into unpretending insignificance. 
New York Saturday March 28, 1835. We approached the city this morning just as the 
S86 
faint light of the opening day began to gild the east. A light cloud of smoke lay upon it. The hum of business and the din of rolling carriages had not commenced, for the busy thousands who throng the streets were yet asleep. Everything seemed to slumber as if by a magic power(powder?] and silence reigned over this great city of noise and confusion. 
The loveliness of the day was particularly favorable to a sail which a party of us took to Governor's Island this afternoon. It is estimated to be 3200 ft. from the city and to contain seventy acres. Upon it are two strong fortifications, Fort Columbus on the south and Castle Williams on the northwest side. 
The former, which is very extensive and now undergoing a thorough rebuilding, is in the form of a star surrounded by a broad deep moat constructed of nicely hewn granite and gneiss, and to all appearance is as invincible as the Rock of Gibraltar. The emblems of war, sculptured out of a block of red sandstone and crowning the Great Entrance, is a beautiful device and a perfect piece of workmanship. 
Castle Williams was begun in 1807 and finished in 1811, is of a circular form 600 ft. in circumference and 60 feet high and has three tiers of guns. The walls, which are of immense thickness, are built of red sandstone. This fort is at present dismantled. 
Thi.s constilutes a rude plan of these two fortresses, neither of which are in a fit state for defence, the ordnance being dismounted, the .stores and ammunitions removed and only a few sentinels left to keep up the pretense of military parade. 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
On the southwest side of the island is a battery commanding the entrance through Buttermilk Creek. Other defenses of the harbor are the works upon Ellis and Bedlow's Islands and the four forts Hamilton, LaFayette, Tompkins, and Richmond at the Narrows, eight miles from the city. From Governor's Island, which is situated almost in the vortex of the point of land formed by the confluence of the North and East Rivers, a wide prospect may be had of the whole harbor, its islands and shores fringed with villages and towns and the innumerable vessels and steamboats which float upon its bosom. From Castle Garden on either hand for miles the quays are lined with shipping whose slender masts and spars for multitude are very aptly called a forest. Among the wide mass of human habitations of which the city is composed, presenting to the eye of the spectator a monotonous uninteresting prospect, the tall church spires pointing to heaven make a beautiful contrast. All the noise which falls upon the ear is the low murmur of the city or the breaking of the ripples upon the beach. This is certainly a delightful spot, the abode of contemplation, the garden of peace, notwithstanding all the pomp and circumstance of war. On our return to the city we passed close alongside the French sloop of war Ceres. From her "mizzen peak" floated the tricoloured flag. Delightful weather. 

Sunday March 29, 1835. Windy dirty weather. Spencer Cane preached at the Oliver Street Baptist Church from this sentence: "Come and hear all ye that fear God and I will declare what he hath done for my soul." He delivered a good practical sermon. He is a noble-looking man, about fifty years of age. His head is somewhat silvered and his brow wrinkled. In the pulpit his movements are natural and easy and, although possessing much of the ministerial tone, he is no contemptible orator. In his youth, having spent several years upon the stage and mingled iri all the pleasures connected therewith, he now feels the effects of such imprudence in a broken constitution and a premature old age. 
In the morning I attended Mass at St. Patrick's Cathredral in Mott St. When I entered the whole congregation filling both the the slips and aisles were swelling [and] Bishop Dubois and the officiary priest, levins in their splendid robes, were reading their Latin prayers and performing their mummeries, genuflexions and crossings. The character of these devout deluded worshippers is soon told. He that runs may read it in their filthy garments, squalid looks, and red faces. They are the scum of town --the surplus population of Ireland. 
The Cathedral is the most spacious house of worship in the city. The front is ornamented by an immense Gothic window with stone mullions. The interior has some claim to be called Gothic, the roof being groined and supported by twenty-eight clustered pillars, each consisting of eight lesser ones bound together by fillets. Add to this the long painted windows, the gorgeous paintings, the splendid vestments and the melting tones of a powerful organ and one cannot witness the inspiring scene without feeling awe and veneration. In all this parade addressed to the senses of men lies the scent of the enticing, binding chains of Catholic worship. 
In the afternoon I attended church with Uncle Libbey. Mr. Lilly, a Scotch minister, preached against Catholicism. He has a little too much starch and pasteboard about him; he may know many things but they are chiefly commonplace and such as he has culled from others. Such is my hasty opinion of a man whom I never before heard. I stand many chances of judging wrong. 
This evening heard the celebrated Finney in the Chatham Street Chapel, than whom few preachers in our country has become more notorious. He is known as the talented leader of a portion of the Presbyterian Church called the "New Measure Men," with whom "protracted meetings," noisy preaching, fervent prayers, and religious revivals are much in vogue. His measures perhaps have in some cases bordered upon impropriety; he has been a little enthusiastic; yet that he 

á merits the one-half of the odium cast upon his character by many whom we think good men, I very much doubt. The truth is that the church has been slumbering for ages and those measures which were the easiest and cost least trouble were generally preferred to all others. Men wanted to get to heaven as easy as possible without troubling themselves about the spirit of religion or the salvation of others. In fine, it appears that they wanted to sleep all the way and open their eyes in glory, but these "new measure folks" make such a confounded noise that they cannot slumber, on which account they rub their eyes and grumble and look surly. As it always happens in a spirit of opposition, both parties err. A middle way is perhaps the true one. Judging Mr. Finney from what I have this evening heard and seen of him, I should say that his measures were far from being objectionable; indeed his preaching approaches more nearly to that of the primitive mode than any I have ever heard. It is simple, plain, and clear. His style is conversational, his delivery rational and easy and his whole sermon aimed directly at his audience. He addresses his hearers in the second person and says "thou art the man: 11 I wondered while listening why I could be pleased at such common everyday talk. The simplicity of his manner, the beauty and aptness of his figures and the solemnity of his address, however, were the means by which my attention was fixed. 
This meeting house was formerly a theatre, the two galleries of which with some of their gay ornaments and gilded workmanship still remain. All the seats are free and will accommodate about three thousand persons. This evening it was crowded. 
Monday March 30, 1835. High north wind! Dust flies in clouds. The American Museum although not very extensive contains a fine collection of stuffed birds, fishes and animals together with a rew minerals and miscellaneous curiosities. It occupies four large halls, the first of which contains birds; the second, animals, birds, fishes, snakes &c; the third, a few wax figures, shells, minerals, bugs, sea animals and miscellaneous articles; and the fourth, a phantasmagoria. 
Among other wonders of the collection I noticed particularly a couple of sarcophagi cut out of a soft calcareous stone or perhaps molded out of some kind of paste or metal and hardened by exposure to the action of the air. These are said to be very ancient, but whether of ancient or modern manufacture I will not pretend to say. The following is the account of them. 
"These two very extraordinary and valuable curiosities were recently received from Rome, being a pair of Urns or Sarcophagi formerly used for containing the ashes of the deceased after the body was burnt after the custom of those days. These Sarcophagi which have been proved by history to be upwards of 2600 years old were found with the ashes enclosed near where Rome now stands among the ruins of the former ancient city in a vault at the immense depth of 250 ft. beneath the surface of the earth. They are about 3* ft. square and each carved out of one piece of stone. The fronts of them are ornamented with the following curious subjects strikingly executed in Basso RelievoA+ The front of the Sarcophagus No.I represents the soul mounted upon a horse on its way to the abode of the Gods to stand as a candidate for divine favour. The horse is led by an attendant who goes before with a beetle to knock at the door for the purpose of giving the inmates notice to prepare themselves for the approach of the soul. The nearest relative of the deceased follows in the rear to attend as a witness in favour of the soul--bearing lestimony of its good deeds while on earth. The front of the Sarcophagus No. 2 presents n after having gained admittance into the sacred abode, standing in company with the attendant who conducted him thither. On the left is Jupiter and 

his consort consulting as to the propriety partake of their favour, while  of admitting the candidate  to á  
* less than 2 ft square  + rather Alto Relievo.  
the relative  who occupies  the middle  of the  group  is still speaking  in  

favour of the deceased. They are excavated about a foot square and are surmounted by a full-length figure sculpted out of one solid piece." 
This is really a very fanciful explanation of these sculptured devices. It may impose upon the belief of some, but I very much doubt the truth of the author's unravelment. 
Two Egyptian mummies [are?] as genuine and venerable curiosities as the collection contains. They were received through the hands of Henry Barklay Esq. They both are enclosed in cedar coffins skilfully carved and painted with many devices. The one is opened, the other yet remains closed. 
The largest crystal of quartz which was ever seen is perhaps in this museum. It was found in the interior of the country 730 miles from Mexico in a silver mine and weighs 212#. A beautiful large specimen of petrified wood is here exhibited. It is supposed to have been a large hickory trunk and was taken from the Cape Fear River. Finally, I will note no more except "Daniel Lambert," the "Sleeping Beauty," Othello killing his wife Desdemona and a few similar celebrated personages executed in wax with all due stiffness, and painted and dressed in a very imposing manner. Over this rare and novel collection of figures, if a hint to the spectator were necessary, I would write "ride di sapis." 

I visited the Muse um chiefly for the purpose of hearing Mr. Kenworthy, the ventriloquist, who performed in a sidehall of the lecture room much to the satisfaction of the company. His colloquies are amusing and a very illusion. On the whole I was much disappointed with the American Museum. The collection is small and by no means interesting to the general spectator. 
Peal's is best known for its gallery of portraits and cabinet of minerals. The principal cemeteries within the city of New York are Trinity and St. Paul's of which the former is known to contain above 100,000 bodies, it having been used as a graveyard more than sixty years. By a law enacted in 1823, no body can be interred within the city south of Grand Street under penalty of two hundred and fifty dollars, ample grounds having been provided for that purpose north of this street. Occasionally, however, those who have family vaults attached to churches in the lower part of the city bury their dead therein by paying the fine attached to such an offence. The numerous monumental inscriptions which may be read in the Yards of Trinity and St. Paul's churches are weil worth the attention of the traveller. In the former is a monument erected to the memory of Capt. James Lawrence, being a broken column resting upon a pedestal. On one side is the following inscription: 
"In memory of Capt. James Lawrence of U.S. Navy who fell on the first of June 1813 in 32d year of his age in the action between the Frigates Chesapeake and Shannon. He had distinguished himself on various occasions but particularly when commanding the sloop of war Hornet by capturing and sinking H.B.M. sloop of war Peacock after an action of 14 minutes. This bravery in action was only equal to his moderation in triumph and his magn[an]imity to the vanquished. In private life he was a gentleman of the most generous & endearing qualities & so acknowledged was his public worth, that the whole nation mourned his loss and the enemy contended with his countrymen who most should honor his remains." 
On the opposite side is written, "The Hero whose remains are here deposited with his expiring breath expressed his devotion to his country. Neither the fury of the battle, the anguish of a mortal wound nor the horrors of approaching death could subdue his gallant spirit. His dying words were 
'Don't give up the ship.' James Montaudevert Lawrence, infant son of Capt. James Lawrence late of the U.S. Navy. Born July 1813. Died 19th Sept. 1814." 
The device which is sculptured upon the monument of Bishop Hobart is a beautiful specimen of the art. It is executed in white marble and is fixed in the wall behind the pulpit of Trinity Church. The Bis_hop is represented in the last moments of his life, seated upon his chair of office. 

At his right stands Religion with benignant and heavenly countenance supporting the head of the dying man with one hand and pointing with the other to the cross from which bursts a flood of light. The effect is greatly heightened by the admission of light thro' the wall and 
[REST OF PAGE TOO LIGHT TO READ] 
Besides those already mentioned is the monument of Hamilton. In St. Paul's Churchyard are Emmet's, Cooke's and Montgomery's monuments. That of the former is a plain obelisk of marble 30 ft. high resting upon a square plinth. On the west side is 40_, 42', 40" N. 74_, 03', 21.5" W.L.G. On the south, four lines in Irish. On the north the following inscription: 
"M.L. Thomae Addis Emmet Qui Ingenio illustri, studus altioribus Moribus integris Dignum Si praestabal laudibus illis Illa reverentia illo Amore Que sempis eum viventum Prosequebantur Et subita illo erepto, morte Universal in luctum civitatis Si effuderunt Quum raro extiterit vir Naturaeve, dotibus doctrinaeve subsidiis Omnibus illo instructior Tum eloquentia alta illa et vera Qualem ollin miraberitur Roma Athrnacque Praecipure allios antiebat Gravis varius vehemeus fervidus Omnes animi motus sic regere rorit Ut eos qui audirent quo' vellet Et in vitas in peleret. Hibernia natus Delectan Sibii patrian dice subjectam Alicoro servis tantum ferende Jugo Ad libertam ad sua jura vocare Magno est ausus animo A praeclaro et concilia et vota Fefillere fata Sum infelicis littora Jernea Reliquat Spe non animo dejectus Nobilis exsul Et haec Americana libeus Respublica Illum excepit civemque sibi Gratutams adservit Dein haec civitus illi domus Houc patria fuit Haec gloriam illi nixit haic Spiritus ultimo Recepit Maerentium civicum voluntas Hoc exegit monumentum. " 
[SECTIONTOO LIGHT TO READ] 
The following is the inscription upon Cooke's monument, which consists of an urn resting upon a decorated pedestal: 
"Erected to the memory of George Frederick Cooke by Edmund Kean of the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane 1821. "Three Kingdoms claim his birth Both hemispheres pronounce his worth." 
The following I copied from a stone in memory of a sea captain: "Tho Boreas blasts and boisterous waves have tossed me to & fro In spight of both you plainly see I harbor here below Where safe at anchor tho' I ride with many of our fleet, Yet once again I must set sail my Admiral Christ to meet.. 
[SKETCHGOFS HERE 

In the room of the Court of Common Pleas is a slab fixed in the wall containing this inscription: "Thomas Addis Emmet viro doctrina, juris, scientia, eloquentia Praestantissimo Inter, haec, subsella, et officii, numera subita, morte, correpto socii, forensis, posuerunt." Above is a small niche containing his bust. 
The city of New York is built upon the south end of Manhattan or New York Island which terminates in a point at the Battery by the confluence of the East and North Rivers. Its growth in population, commerce and wealth scarcely finds an equal in the history of any modern city, and owing to its advantageous position, commodious harbor and easy communication with the interior, where may be set the limits of its increasing greatness, it could puzzle the most profound political economist to say. The circumference of the city which may at present be limited to about ten miles is yearly increasing by large additions on the north side where the streets and avenues are broad and much more regularly laid out than in the southern part. The architecture both of public [and] private buildings has within a few years been manifestly improving and now the city can boast of edifices and mansions which would do honor to the antient and wealthy cities of Europe. Scarcely a vestige of the old Dutch style which prevailed at the founding of New Amsterdam can now be found; its heavy proportions are superseded by the light and convenient style of modern taste, or by the chaste and stately forms of the Grecian orders. Many of the blocks which have latterly been erected for private dwellings will vie in magnificence with the palaces of nobles, particularly several rows on Broadway, Lafayette Place, Bond Street and Bleecker Street. Brick is the most common building material a though all the public edifices and many gentlemen's residence are constructed wholly or in part of granite or marble. 
The general direction of the streets are north and south with transverse ones intersecting at right angles., extending from river to river. Those in the lower part of the city, which are more irregular and narrow, have been considerably shortened and otherwise improved as the convenience and increasing importance of the city have seemed to demand. The principal street is Broadway, the great fashionable promenade and thoroughfare of the city. It is eighty feet wide and extends three miles from the Battery north. From early dawn till midnight it is thronged with a busy, bustling multitude but more especially about four in the afternoon when all the fashion and beauty of New York turn out to take their customary lounge. The splendor and brilliancy of Broadway of a pleasant evening cannot be surpassed. Throughout its whole length it is lighted with innumerable lamps which, with the coach lights moving in every direction to and fro amidst the surrounding darkness, converts it into a splendid galaxy. Add to this the continual hum of human voices, the shuffle of busy feet and the rolling of carriages and you have a music whose power the most obtuse ear cannot but appreciate. It is a music which inspires the soul and to which the feet and every motion of the body beats time. 

No man can walk slow in New York; every thing that he sees or hears forbids the idea unless his feelings are as blunt as a stoic's. The same fact holds with regard to all great bodies of men. But to return to the subject of streets: from Broadway there is a gentle slope either way to the North and East Rivers, and its importance as the great central resort is fully maintained by the magnificence of its princely edifices. Pearl Street, which is well known as the great bursar of dry goods and hardware, extends more than a mile in a crescent direction between Broadway and the East River. It contains numerous spacious warehouses and is the seat of extensive business. In Front and Water Streets are found the wholesale grocers, commission merchants and the mechanics connected with the shipping business. Shipping merchants have their storehouses and offices in South Street along the East River. 
Wall Street has become celebrated as the seat of the greatest moneyed negotiations in the country. During the day it is thronged with men of business. It contains the Merchant's Exchange, the New Custom House which is now erecting, the banks, the insurance brokers, newspapers and attornies' offices together with the Post Office. Canal street!, a broad and airy street crossing Broadway and running to the Hudson, is chiefly occupied by retail stores. The Bowery is a spacious street extending from Chatham Square north nearly parralel with Broadway. Chatham Street is probably second in the city [for?] bustle and animation. There are many other streets and avenues which are wide and handsome. Some of these are East Broadway, Nassau, Broad, Fulton, Cortlandt, William, Hudson, Division, Grand and Broome Streets. From Prince Street in the Bowery along Fourth Avenue, seven and a half miles to Harl[e]m is the New York Harlaem Railroad. Third Avenue is macademized as far as the same place. 
Tuesday March 31, 1835. In giving a passing notice of some of the principal buildings I shall begin with the City Hall in the park which was commenced in 1803 and completed in 1812 at an expense of five hundred and forty thousand dollars. It is considered the "lion" of the city but with what propriety I can not conceive unless the magnitude of its dimensions or the complexity of its parts merit that distinguished appellation. Its length is 216 ft., breadth 105 ft. the facade 75, and ends are constructed of white marble and the rear of red sandstone. The style of architecture is the Modern Italian, the orders being continued around the building in pilasters. The lower order is Ionic, the upper Corinthian. The main body of the building has a portico of eight Ionic pillars extending the whole length 
SB8 
of its front and up to the second story. Among these columns are five entrances which are approached by a flight of marble steps. The second story corresponds with the first in the number and disposition of its Corinthian pilasters. Above the whole is the attic story and parapet. In the wings the attic is omitted and only the parapet is retained, thus giving the center building a superiority in height which it ought to have. This being the first specimen of the Italian school which I have ever seen, it might be expected that the expression of my feeble judgement would be unbiassed. So indeed I believe it is, although the limitedness of my experience or the badness of my taste may nevertheless entitle my opinions to no credit. 
The Italian mode of building is not in my judgement worthy of being compared with the Grecian. For villas and gentlemen's residences it does very well, but for public buildings where a loftiness and grandeur is desirable nothing should be tolerated but the chaste and simple proportions of the Grecian orders. The City Hall is certainly a stately monument, alike honorable to the munificence of the corporation and the skill and ingenuity of the artificers, but far from what it should be. The multiplicity of ornaments and breaks and the complication of the parts constitute it a confused mass of beautiful members, arranged together with too little regard to simplicity and order, two of the most important principles in architecture. The little marble amphiprostyle temple to the right of the Hall with its hexastyle porticos, robs it of one-half of its effect or more truly eclipses it by the harmony of its parts and the purity of the design. It is a genuine specimen of the Ionic order, and together with the City Hall is chiefly occupied by courts and other civil purposes. 
Another edifice of great public utility and considerable architectural beauty is the Merchants Exchange in Wall Street. Besides its principal front, which is 115 ft. long, it extends back 150 ft. [and] presents another [face?] on Exchange Street 114 ft. long. The main facade is constructed of white marble and has an elliptical recess or portico 40 ft. wide, the entablature being supported by four columns and two antae placed on a line with the front. The columns are each a single stone 30 ft. long and 3 1/3 ft. in diameter. The order is Ionic, above which is a third story, making in all a height of 60 ft. The basement story is occupied by the City post office. How a worse set of rooms could be appropriated to this important concern I cannot contrive. To descend to there is like entering the murky regions of Pluto or groping your way into a cold cheerless dungeon where the few rays of light which enter at noonday are insufficient for the common purpose of business. When I visited the place it was late in the morning and the lamps were still burning beside the clerks. The principal entrance to the Exchange Room is through the portico by a flight of marble steps. This room is 85 ft. long, 55 ft.wide and 45 high, the lofty ceiling being supported by fluted columns. In April 1825 this building was commenced; and finished in July 1827 under the superintendence of M. E. Thompson, architect. The new Custom House is but just begun; no expense will be spared to make it a splendid edifice. Several of the banks in the same street are worthy notice, displaying good taste and munificence in their construction. 

[ENGRA YING HERE] 
The above is a correct engraving of a marble edifice erected for the use of the "University of New York," an institution which was commenced by an association of gentlemen with a subscription of one hundred fifteen thousand dollars. Its object is instruction in literature, science or arts under more extensive advantages and diminished expenses, and is founded upon this principle that its affairs shall be managed by a majority of no religious sects. Although yet in its infancy, it has gone into operation under favorable auspices, having now nearly two hundred students under its instruction. James M. Mathews is Chancellor, with whom are associated twelve Professors and five Lecturers. 
The University fronts upon Washington Square and is situated in one of most airy and beautiful parts of the city. Its style of architecture is the castellated Gothic, than which a more happy selection can not be made. This mode of building has something in it particularly adapted to the purposes of religion and learning --an adaptation which I suppose arises more from the habit of association than from any fitness in the style itself. There is an air of solemn grandeur and antiquity thrown around it that fills the spectator with awe and veneration; a sober stillness seems to pervade the very region where a Gothic temple is located. The great pointed window over the main entrance is 55 1/2 ft. in height. Another institution of similar character but much longer standing is Columbia College, situated in a square near the Park. The building occupied for the purposes of instruction is an old grey stone edifice shaded by the wide-spreading branches of a group of sycamores which have a decided claim to antiquity. There is nothing about the exterior of the College which is worthy of any architectural notice. This College was instituted by a Royal Charter in 1754 under the name of King's College. The faculty consists of William A Duer LLD., President and nine Professors. Number of graduates about 120. 
Lagrange Row in Lafayette Place is a block of nine tenements constructed of white marble. The first story constitutes a rustic base upon which rests a splendid portico of twenty-eight columns rising to the roof and supporting a beautiful entablature and parapet. The graceful proportions of the slender columns, the richness of the decorated capitals 

and the harmony of the various parts throw around it altogether such an 
air of lightness and comfort as to make it a beautiful specimen of domestic 
architecture. The order in the proportion of its members is Corinthian, but 
differs from it somewhat in the decorations of the capital and entablature. 
In carrying the base up to the height of one story the architect has given to 
that member too conspicuous a part among the other members. 
In Broadway opposite Washington Place is a house containing two tenements constructed of white marble. It has a portico of five columns and two pilasters in the Ionic order. It is a beautiful building but perhaps would have been better adapted to the purpose of residences if the Corinthian order had been used. 
The Chapels of New York are both numerous and splendid, 
particularly those which have been constructed lately. 
St. Thomas (Episcopal) in Broadway is the purest specimen of Gothic architecture in the City. It is built of small rough stones with rustic quoins of red sandstone. The front is decorated by an immense pointed window with stone mullions and painted glass and two high castellated octagon towers at the angles of the facade. The interior decorations are in good keeping with the order, being both numerous and elaborate. This probably is the most splendid Chapel in the city. 
St. Paul's (Episcopal), Broadway near the Park, has a front of red sandstone. The portico consists of four columns with Corinthian abaci and decorated necks, supporting a pediment in which is a niche containing a marble statue of St. Paul. The internal finish displays the wealth and liberality of the worshippers. The organ of this chapel is the best in the city. 
Trinity Chapel is not known so much for its beauty as for antiquity, having been rebuilt and repaired several times since it was first founded. This Church is the parent of all the other Episcopal Churches in the city and is said to be in t:b ' possession of property to the amount of twenty millions of dollars, a fr une which has been realized from lands &c. in the city bequeathed to the Lhurch many years ago. This is indeed an immense concern. It is a great, proud, wealthy mammoth. 
St. John's Ûhapel in Varick Street, opposite St. John's Park. It has a beautiful portico of four columns above which is a pediment spanning nearly the whole length of the front. The order is Corinthian, the only genuine specimen I have seen in the city. The steeple is the tallest in the City. 
St. Clement's in Amity Street has a pediment front with castellated octagon towers at either angle and a large round window above the main entrance. The whole is castellated. 
The French (Episcopal) Chapel in Franklin Street is a splendid marble temple of the Ionic order. The portico consists of two rows of immense 
S91 
massy columns, the front row having four and the other, two columns and 
antae. The dome and lanthorn which surmounts the roof, although 
beautiful, is hardly in keeping with the order. The ceiling is supported by 
eight slender columns with Corinthian abaci, and the interior of the Dome 
is handsomely coffered. 
The American Theatre is a good piece of Doric architecture. It was erected in 1826 and burned in 1828, after which the present edifice was built, having a front 75 ft. upon the Bowery.and extending back 175 ft. to Elizabeth Street. Height to Cornice SO ft. The great gilded eagle in the pediment is [in?] decidedly bad taste. 
The public and private parks --places of general resort and recreation --are numerous; and although not very extensive no expense has been spared to make them spots of agreeable retirement from the bustle of the city and the fatigues of business. The Battery is more frequented as a retreat than any other park in the city. It is situated on.the extreme point of the island at the junction of North and East Rivers and contains an area of 10 3/4 acres. The grounds are very tastefully laid out into parterres and gravel walks shaded by trees. This common, which . receives its name in consequence of its having been used by the Dutch for a battery in older times, is of a crescent form, and has been much enlarged by extending the exterior circumference several hundred feet into the harbor and protecting it by a heavy sea wall. Upon the three interior sides it is surrounded by an iron fence. In pleasant weather during the summer months this beautiful promenade is filled with the elite and fashionable who come forth to enjoy the cool sea breeze and inhale the fresh air. From this spot the prospect is wide, varied, comprehending not only the shores of New Jersey, skirted with its villages and country seats but Staten Island and Long Island, the city of Brooklyn and the delightful mansions upon "the Heigh ts." 
Connected with the Battery by a bridge is Castle Garden. It is built up on a mole of a circular form and was formerly mounted with one tier of guns. In 1823 it was sold by the U.S. to a corporation by whom it has since been rented as a place of amusement. Upon the top is a delightful prospect. Within the walls ten thousand people may be accomadated. The Park is a common which has belonged to the city time-out-of-mind and was formerly known as "The Fields." Being at the junction of Broadway and Chatham Streets, the seat of bustle and activity, it is continually thronged by the passing multitude. It has an area of 10 3/ 4 acres and contains the following public buildings: the City Hall, Hall of Records, the Alms House, Bridewell and Rotunda. 
Washington Square is another public park laid out in the upper part of the city. It contains 9 3/4 acres of land and was chiefly used till 1827 as a "Potter's Field." Since that time it has been enlarged by additional lots, 
S9l 
levelled, fenced and planted with trees so that it now is one of the 
pleasantest spots in the city. Union Place is still farther north and contains 10 acres. Clinton Square has an area of 10 1/2 acres and is laid out upon what 
are called "Stuyvesant's Meadows." 
Bowling Green, the first public square in the city, is memorable as having contained a leaden statue of George II which during the Revolutionary War was taken down and run up into bullets. It is of an elliptical form surrounded by an iron fence and planted with trees. 
The private parks are St. John's Park, containing 4 acres, and Gramercy Park, having an area of about two. Both are laid [out] with great taste and are ornamented with trees, shrubs flowers. 
Wednesday April 1, 1835. A visit to Brooklyn Heights and the U.S. Navy Yard is well worth the traveller's time. By an excursion to the former he enjoys one of the most brilliant scenes that was ever spread out before him --the grand panorama of New York, its harbor and its islands. The picture is a perfect one; nature and art being commingled presents so charming a variety to the beholder that the eye cannot be satisfied with seeing nor the mind weary of contemplating the enchanting prospect. 
The U.S. Navy Yard is in the eastern part of Brooklyn upon Wallabout Bay. It at present has two ships upon stocks, three laid up dismantled and three nearly ready for sea, besides all the necessary stores and munitions of war. On the opposite side of the bay is the Marine Hospital. One of the pleasantest excursions which the environs of New York affords is a sail up the sound to Flushing. If the weather be favourable, the rambler may promise himself a rich treat. At first, East River is narrow, the New York shore being rocky and the other sandy and undulating, but after passing the Hurlgate the strait widens out into a broad beautiful bay with numerous indentations and promontories. Along the shores may be seen the wide domains of the wealthy farmers, the splendid villa, and the neat white cottage peeping out from among a clump of trees upon the wide smooth .sea before it. Take it all in all, the scene is one of unrivalled charms; it is suclran one as the painter would admire to copy because it is a perfect picture. Land, water, groves, stately mansions, comfortable farm houses, vessels with their fleecy wings, are commingled in agreeable variety. It is not the least item which goes to make up the tourist's pleasures, that by the modern invention of steamboats such lovely spots as this may be visited without being subjected to any of the uncertainties of wind and tide. 
The principal attraction which Flushing affords is the extensive garden and nursery owned by William Prince & Sons. It was commenced eighty years ago by the father of the present aged proprieter and consists of a tract of land of more than forty acres containing above thirty thousand plants and shrubs. The laying out of the grounds, the mode of cultivation, the order and neatness of the greenhouse plants and, in fine, the arrangements of the whole concern bespeak the good judgement and liberality of the proprietor. This village has an excellent school called "The Institute" under the care of the Rev. Mr. Muhlenburgh. The healthiness of the spot together with its beauty and freedom from all vicious enticements must make it eminently desirable as a location for such an institution. 

Thursday April 2, 1835. Delightful day. Returned to the city by land. Hitherto I have refrained from either censure or encomium in my .short notice of New York and have restricted myself chiefly to plain matter of fact. I came to the city pretty well determined to dislike it and shall leave still more confirmed in my aversion. The noise and confusion, the dust and smoke, and the consequent impurity of air are evils which all the privileges of a city life cannot render tolerable. The fanciful quiet of retirement is the poetry of life; the minstrelsy of nature, its sweetest mu.sic. The tide of existence flows smoothly. But a town life is a continual excitement, a species of intoxications. The great multitude are ruled by fashion and, although raised in their manners, are lowered in their morals beyond the common level. The citizen lives faster than the countryman, consequently a given amount of his life is more valuable than a corresponding amount of the latter's. The "wear stare" [wear and tear?] of the town may be seen in the pale countenance, the hollow eye and sickly look. The young men are more fit to wear petticoats than breeches and the girls to be dolls than either wives or mothers. Nature wherever it may be found is so generally tortured and twisted by art and fashion that hardly a trace remains. If I were able to choose my residence for life, I would settle in the vicinity of some great city just far enough removed to avoid its inconveniences but sufficiently near to enjoy its privileges. 
Newburgh Friday April 3, 1835. After a hard night's voyage our boat arrived at two o'clock [this] morning, having been encumbered by the whaleship Portland which we took in tow at New York. She has just returned from a cruise of twenty-two months in which time 1650 barrels of oil was obtained. The sailors were hardy-looking fellows full of health and spirits. Their "tough yarns" excited great interest among our landmen, who listened with gaping wonderment. Just as we entered the Highlands, the thrilling cry of "a man overboard" rang through the boat, accompanied with a general rush aft. The small boat was immediately lowered and manned but before she put off, owing to the speed of the boat and the swiftness of the ebbing tide, 
S33 
nothing could be seen of the man but his head which, as he rose and fell, 
appeared like a black speck tossed upon the rough surface of the troubled 
waters. 
Those who have never witnessed such a scene can hardly imagine its thrilling effect. A shudder came over me as I looked upon the dark angry waters and saw the danger of him who was buffeting its cold waves. Every voice was hushed, and the passengers who stood gazing with breathless anxiety after the boat strained every nerve as if it would give her the greater speed. When she returned bearing the fellow dripping wet, the congratulations of the passengers surpassed if it were possible even the painful anxiety which they but a moment before felt for his safety. He was a little sailor belonging to the whaleship and as nimble in the water as a fish. 
Saturday April 4, 1835. The task of visiting is one of the veriest bores which the rules of society ever imposed upon a man. I speak now of those long formal visits to friends, when it is expected of you that you stay a. fortnight and get yourself into the dyspepsia by surfeiting. 
Schenectady Sunday April 5, 1835. If I would curse man with the greatest of all curses, I would cause him to go from New York to Albany in a night boat with five hundred passengers. Such was my fate last evening. When I came on board the steamboat, every berth was filled and the floors of the cabin, clean fore and aft, was covered with sleepers lying "heads and tails" like so many herring, besides some fifty or more who took turns at sitting and standing inasmuch as there were not seats enough for all. Multiply this slumbering multitude by a good lusty snoring and add a couple of Dr. Nott's stoves minus any fire, keeping in mind the coldness and inclemency of the weather, and what do you find the result at the end of the operation in the morning? What else but a severe headache and a wretched cold. Such is my experience..
Listened to Dr. Welch, between "sleep [and] awake," jumped into the railroad cars, and found myself snugly seated at home in a very short two hours. The weather seems to be much of the same humor with myself -.cold and stormy. 
Monday April 6, 1835. After beholding the crime and wickedness of a great city --a babel of confusion --I return to my humble "Dorp" more than ever content with my lot and disgusted with the depravity of human nature. Give me an humble cot with peace and I will never covet a dwelling in New York even if it frown with all the aristocratic look of a palace in Broadway. 

Tuesday April 7, 1835. That one may safely judge of a man's character and foresee with much surety what will be the amount of his future usefulness in life, he must have had a pretty long and intimate acquaintance with him. In regard to many of my class whom I shall notice, I may say that I hardly know their names, much less their characters. Consequently whatever I say of such men must not be entitled to much credit as it will generally be second-handed or from very slight impressions. 
Wednesday April 8, 1835. Samuel B. Willis was known in college by the familiar appelation of "Father Willis," not so much from his age as from the apparent austerity of his manners and the sanctity of his life. His talents are moderate, his scholarship decent, but his piety is pre-eminent. This he manifested by a "well-ordered life and a Godly conversation." His religion was an active principle to which all who ever knew him can testify. During his stay in town the chief field of his pious labors was our degraded colored population, to whom he became both pastor and schoolmaster, laboring incessantly for their good and visiting their families 
without any compensation. Whilst here _he changed his religious sentiments and became a Baptist. His usefulness will outlive his fame. 
Thursday April 9, 1835. Samuel T. Andrews, a little Connecticut Yankee, has at the time I am writing plump rosy cheeks and two bushy whiskers. He walks "so strait that he leans backwards" and looks withal like a squirrel with a couple of chestnuts in either side of his mouth. I "take him" to be a pretty smart fellow, a decent scholar. 
Friday April 10, 1835. John Stump Archer is a "pretty clever fellow" which in college language signifies a dull scholar, a poor writer and speaker and, in fine a man wanting every talent except that of making himself agreeable among his fellows without being particularly respected. To be called a "clever fellow" in College is the last encomium which I would wish to bear. Archer will never be known beyond the little circle of his acquaintance. Ifne has money enough, he will live a lazy, unambitious gentleman; if not, I fear he will rather beg than labor. While in College he invariably brought up the rear of the class. 
Saturday April 1, 1835. Silas H. Ashmun, I believe, is brother of him who died several years since, Governor of the Colony [in?] Liberia. He is very tall in stature, a pretty good scholar, a devoted Chri.stian and a gentleman. Farther I know not. 
Sunday April 12, 1835. Mr. Gillett has accepted the call of the Lanborn 
S9f 
Street Church in Philadelphia to become their pastor, and a Mr. Graves from Auburn is now preaching for us. It is probable he will receive a call from this church to supply the place of Mr. Gillett. The hand of Providence seems manifest in these recent changes. Our Pastor was sent to Philadelphia and New York last winter by the Trustees, for the purpose of raising some money to sink the church debt. By this procedure we lost him, but just before he was about to depart, another was sent whom we accepted to be our pastor. 
Monday April 13, 1835. The weather last week was delightful. We have in College as elsewhere a few whom we consider the scum of the community. Among such I will venture to rank Alexander F. Rell. He is a "pretty Hard Case" --a coarse, vulgar, wicked fellow and a breeder of mischief. He entered the sophomore class of 1832 but being absent for a time and a lazy student withal was degraded and put into our class in 1834. Since then he has been better known as the College "bore" and clown than either as a scholar or gentleman. What the man's prospects in life are I know not, but I fear that vice will bring him speedily to the grave. Any hopes of his . amendment are small. I recollect that in 1833, when the pious of College were a little refreshed by a special manifestation of the Spirit, Bell was deeply convicted for his sins and in a public meeting asked Christians to pray for him. However, he fell away and his "last state is worse than the first." 
Tuesday April 14, 1835. Henry R. Blain is generally characterized as a "puke" which in College slang means that he is disagreeable in his manners. This charge I will not attempt to palliate. When he entered he was a green country boy and a "dominie's" son, which, by the by, accounts for many of his narrow notions, and being wholly unused to the world and probably a darling pet of his parents, he was a little too forward among his fellows, talked too much and manifested rather more than. a common share of vanity. Indeed I cannot say that he has mended much by age and experience; nevertheless he is a young man of talents and industry. His scholarship is good, and his compositions evince considerable thought. Doubtless he will be a sound old dominie. 
Wednesday April 15, 1835. Thomas S. Brownell is the son of Bishop Brownell of Connecticut. Like most rich men's sons Tom has been spoilt by indulgence and bad education. His mind, which has been badly trained, is strong and vigorous. His scholarship is the very poorest, but as a writer he is far from being contemptible. During last session a satire was published in College in which he was severely handled. Having obtained pretty sure knowledge concerning the authorship, he wrote a cutting answer in about three hundred lines which evinced great poetical talents. His notorious lazy habits, however, I fear will "nullify" his natural endowments. He is generally classed among the "Hard Cases" and I am told had the nickname of "Blowhard" in Washington College. 

Thursday April 16, 1835. James Brewer. This young Marylander has more vanity than common sense. He is what we call a "flat fellow." His attainments are superficial and his brain is shallow. To waste pen and ink u pan him is a sin. 
Friday April 17, 1835. What shall I say of thee, David Bullions? Thou uncouth, thickheaded, Scotchman. David is son of "old Dr. Bullions," and may be easily recognised as an inhabitant of Washington County by his unfashionable dress and clownish manners. He appears to me to have no spark of energy about him, and to be as tame as a blockhead. He is a very ordinary scholar, and dull of apprehension. Last winter Davy was well nigh frightened out of his wits. Some mischievous wag contrived a "gunpowder plot" by which the poor fellow was blown out of bed in the middle of the night whilst he was sound asleep. 
Saturday April 18, 1835. This has been a cold, stormy week. Seth Bunnell is the butt of College. With his name is associated ignorance and folly. To compare a man with him is in effect calling him a simpleton or blockhead. Seth is no scholar, his fort lies in stenography--or rather tachography, as he calls the art; this he learned of an ignorant wonder-worker who peddled out his knowledge at surprising low rate and taught men to write short-hand in almost no time. Bunnell has made great proficiency in this "noble science" in so much that he has taught the same in other places and now enjoys all envied notoriety. He likewise has made considerable progress as a preacher among the old Dutchmen of Princetown whom he has long astonished by the depth of his thoughts and force of language, but as ill luck would have it, it has lately been discovered that he builds his fame by stealing Dr. Dwight's Sermons. It appears that Seth has not preached in vain-for, acccording to report, he has made convert of a rich Dutchman's daughter and only waits his graduation to have his marriage consummated. Success to thee, Seth Bunnell! 
Sunday April 19, 1 835. I can say of myself with great truth "Wo is me' for I am a man of unclean lips, aye and unclean thought. When I lay upon my bed and "balmy sleep" is about to draw her curtain o'er the acts of the closing day, it pains my heart to correct my sins against the God with whom I wish to commune. What a filthy Lazar I am! Why should so vile a casket contain this precious soul which is panting for immortality and fleeing to free itself from this dog? Thanks be to Christ, this soul will not always minister to the vile lusts of the body; neither pain and sorrow destroy its happy existence. Faith will eventually be lost in reality, I shall know and see what now my soul so much desires. Oh fit me Lord for my last change. Death perhaps is most terrible in imagination. Dominie Gillett has preached his farewell sermon and prepares to leave tomorrow . 

Monday April 20, 1835. No one who knows James Chamberlain can say aught against him, either as a scholar, Christian or a gentleman. In his manners he is modest and unassuming. His talents are respectable but nothing brilliant or showy. I doubt whether he will ever be a great man although he doubtless will be a good one. 
Tuesday April 21, 1835. John E. Chapman is a pert little Marylander whose deficiency in stature nature has paid "by large supplies of needful pride." He came to College too young, the consequence of which was that he was spoilt and College became too strait a place for him. He used his cards and pistols better than his books and grew graduallv from a clever little boy to to a "pretty Hard Little Case." The immediate cause of his expulsion was snapping a pistol at a fellow student who by some slight provocation raised his southern spunk. So John graduated before he had hoped. He entered the class above ours but was put back. 
Wednesday April 22, 1835. Caleb Clapp is a "pretty clever old Josey" and if I mistake not will be able to whine out prayers and sing sermons as well as the generality of Episcopal clergymen. If he has an uncommon intellect, I have hitherto seen no indications of it. As a scholar he is below mediocrity; still he is a Christian and will make a very good country curate. This is probably the last that I shall ever hear of him unless per chance I fall in his way. 
Thursday April 23, 1835. This gentleman in white linen gloves is Mr. Justus M. Clark whose talent lies in a napkin, white and sweetly scented, which he manages very adroitly to the breaking of many ladies' hearts. His bump of self-esteem is wonderfully large so that common sense is altogether crowded out. His softness and effeminacy has acquired for him the appellation of "Madam Clark," a name which is certainly extremely well applied. He is a noted "flat" and among the chief "pukes" of College. Dull scholar. As a writer it is needless to speak of him. 
Friday April 24, 1835. With Henry B. Cleavland I have been long and intimately acquainted. He is a man of good sense and sound judgement. As a scholar he is respectable, a warm friend and an agreeable companion. His 
f98 
natural talents are good but neither splendid nor showy. Harry will never make for himself a great name but will live in the world as now in College, a man of moderate influence. He might notwithstanding make a powerful intriguer and by that means get power, for I believe he possesses a pretty good share .... 
Saturday April 25, 1835. He whom I next bring forward is a little fellow full of fun and mischei,f named Henry M. Collier--his father a distinguished lawyer and politician of Broome county. He came to College too young to withstand the force of evil example and the contaminating influence of bad companions. He is a very "bright and smart" boy, has a great flow of "animal spirits," as sparkling of wit and rather more taste for cards and novels than his text books. How much age may do in reforming his indolent habits I know not; should it do however what it is hoped it may, he probably will shine like his father. 
Sunday April 26, 1835. Destitute of preaching in our church. Who does not know how disagreeable it is to want the labors of a minister when we expect one? Disappointment strikes a coldness over our devotions. I first heard a Mr. Prince in the Presbyterian Chapel. He is a young man just escaped from the theological school from which he has learnt all that is stiff and formal in the old mode of preaching. He can sing a sermon in pretty good style, his voice varying in pitch from five to six notes. His monotonous tones had the same effect upon me as the lullaby does upon the child, they lulled me to sleep. 
Monday April 27, 1835. John B. Dales has been in College about three years and is usually known as a sloven in his person, a respectable scholar, a good writer and speaker and a clever fellow. He is a Christian. 
I
~ 
Tuesday April 28, 1835. The Dedericks, Simeon and Ruben, are a couple of old High Du tchers from Claverack. They possess both the moral and physical peculiarities of their nation. The older brother saw too many winters before lre came from under the foggy atmosphere of a Dutch education. The old proverb will apply to him, "It is hard to learn an old dog new tricks"; even although he manifests wonderful industry and commendable application to his studies, he unfortunately cannot wear the Dutch off. After all, they both are young men of pretty good common sense but nothing brilliant nor what we call in College "smart fellows." The younger has nearly "shed his skin" during his sojourn in College from which he will go forth pretty nearly metamorphosed into a decent man. They are destined to the Lutheran pulpit, for which they will prepare themselves in Germany. 
f19 
Wednesday April 29, 1835. Among so numerous a class as ours, a large portion of which came late to College, it cannot but happen that some individuals will be little known to me. Consequently my notice of such must be short. Benjamin F. Duryea is a modern accession to the class and I may say an honorable one. He is a scholar and a gentleman. 
Thursday April 30,1835. Last Monday a heavy snow fell from early in the morning till five P.M. If the weather had been cold enough there would probably have been eight inches of snow and good sleighing. Take it all in all, this has been a cold stormy month. Mitchell Eacker is another of my classmates whose character is little known to me. His scholarship is respectable and his deportment that of a gentleman. Hitherto he has not been much known in College. 
Friday May 1, 1835. Have a severe cold which has kept me groaning and aching through the week. The question must soon be determined in my mind "whether I will be a man or not," choosing a straight and rugged course to honor or wandering through life ~n every bypath of science, grasping at every novelty and dying in ignorance of anything. Ambition and love of ease hold a strong warfare. 
Saturday May 2, 1835. I remember Francis Smith Ellas to be a modest unassuming young man of good parts and respectable scholarship. In religious belief he was a Universalist but against his moral character I know nothing. Having been absent considerable, he has not become very generally known. 
Sunday May 3,1835. In the morning Mr. Graves preached an admirable sermon. We celebrated the solemn and profitable ordinance of the Lord's Supper and in the evening I heard a Mr. Phelps preach about "abolition of slavery" to an overwhelming congregation in Presbyterian Chapel. Beautiful day! charming day. 
Monday May 4, 1835. There are many men who are like "singed bats" -.much better than they appear to be; of this number may be Ezra B. Fancher. I never [thought?] this gentleman to be over and above smart although I always supposed from his recitations and other exercises that he was an industrious and persevering fellow. Hitherto I have seen little reason to change my opinions. As a good old sermon-reading "Dominie," Ezra may succeed tolerably well but whoever expects anything brilliant or original from him will be disappointed. A gentleman and Christian. 

Tuesday May 5, 1835. Henry D. Farnandis. This is a pretty little Baltimorean, young, amiable, talented and learned beyond his years. know of no boy in College who is more winning in his manners, more gentlemanly in his deportment or of a happier disposition. His scholarship is excellent, his judgement good and his discernment quick. In fine, Henry is a fine, handsome, clean little gentleman. 
Wednesday May 6,1835. Next in order on our Catalogue stands the great, clever, goodnatured John Foster. He has all the characteristics of the Washington County students, being awkward, clownish and rough. He has a good share of rustic wit, which he deals out pretty copiously on all occasions; on the whole his witticisms are a little stale. John's talents are good, his scholarship very respectable, and his compositions well seasoned with wit. He is the clown of the class from whom we always expect something laughable when he exhibits, either in declamation o{ composition. This man will make an apt, sarcastic lawyer. He is pretty old. 
Thursday May 7, 1835. Charles Franchot is of French descent. Our. rooms being adjacent, I have had pretty good opportunity of judging what may be his character. Being young, it is not possible to say precisely what he may make but so far as present appearances go I should say that Charley would never make a great man. He is a clever fellow, and agreeable companion, but a lasy student and not very smart withal. I have known him to be a little intoxicated, yea a good deal several times, when he has visited at parties in the city, although I hope this will not become habitual. 
Friday May 8, 1835. Who is Philip Frey? I see his name upon the catalogue but do not remember such a man. He probably put his hand to the plough and looked back. I know of many such who would like the honors of college without bearing any of its burdens. 
Saturday May 9, 1835. Splendid weather today. Here is a little fellow named Thomas Frothingham. Yes, I know him well. He sits in Chapel upon the gallery directly over my head, and is more noisy in his applause for any witty expression of "Old Prex" than any other student. His feet fall like heavy falling blocks. Thomas is a very decent scholar and if he is not spoilt in College may make a man. I fear his moral and religious principles are none of the soundest. It is a sin to commit such young boys to the allurements of College life. 
Sunday May 10, 1835. Beautiful day. Took the liberty to visit the Shakers at Niskayuna. Whether on this occasion I consulted conscience more than 
6Dl 
inclination is doubtful; be it as it may, curiosity prevailed and I went to see these poor deluded creatures dance. If it be a sin thus to gratify one's thirst for seeing once upon a Sabbath, I have acted in this instance as I am too much accustomed to act. I must confess that I am not a very pious man. If I may be permitted to claim the holy name of Christian, it certainly must be by the abounding mercy of the Great and Holy One. Oh what a little saint I shall make if I mend not my ways! But to return to the incidents of the day! My company was Strong, Phelps and Kennedy. Our walk, which lay through groves and cultivated country was rendered pleasant by the morning coolness and the caroling of the birds. When we arrived within the domains of the Shakers, they were already assembling for worship, marching across the fields from their habitations in little companies with all the regularity of platoons of soldiers. Their cardinal virtues are neatness, simplicity, and industry; moreover they possess great sobriety and temperance. Both th,e interior and exterior of their houses evinces the utmost order and cleanliness. Their dress is plain and uniform and cut in utter disregard to fashion. The Shakers' worship consists in singing, dancing, and exhortation, in the two former of which all unite, both old and young, whilst the latter is made by the elders. From the few specimens of poetry and music which I heard in their hymns I should be inclined to believe that the Muses and Apollo had been seldom invoked. Their singing was loud and vociferous, having only one part and extremely monotonous; to this they all kept time by a motion of the hands, feet or body. In dancing the whole company moved forward and backward, wheeled and returned at the sound of dull nasal music or marched around two and two in a circle, in the middle of which several elderly men and women sang with all their might. In their exhortations to the "world's people" the elder man [manifested] a pretty good share of self-righteousness, extolling their self-denial and sanctity and dwelling chiefly upon the meritoriousness of their good works. Poor _____ devils (I was going to say if it had not been wicked), they will find more folks in heaven than they now dream of, if their broad-brimmed hats ever permit them to enter the pearly gates --not Shakers all neither. They are really to be pitied if they-swallow this monstrous doctrine; if not, I am at a loss whether they are more to be pitied or despised for their hypocrisy. 
Monday May 11, 1835. Rufus Fuller of Kent, Connecticut. Rufus! thou art as prim and as nice in thy dress, as studied in thy movements and as sweet-smelling as a lady's waiting-gentleman. Really thou lookest like a buckram man or a stiff museum waxfigure. I think nature had little to do in thy composition, for thou walkest and movest like a puppet and when thou talkest thy sentences must be very full and rounded, pruned, smoth, and polished, and thy words must be the biggest, most lengthy and euphon[i]ous. Then how guttural thy pretty voice is! This gentlewoman is no very respectable student, sirs, and withal possesses few brains. So I opine. Mend, Rufus, mend, for certes thou now provest an emetic to all who know thee! 

Tuesday May 12, 1835. Charles David Gould of Albany. This gentleman has been hanging upon the skirts of College these three years in the capacity of University student, study-what-you-have-a-mind-to student. He is a fatherless boy possessed of a fortune, has his own way, and does what he pleases. Dave tries to play the gentleman but after all succeeds quite poorly; he has not the dignity and highmindedness requisite although he has the means of being a gentleman. His pride and vanity is more than his good sense and magnanimity. Although he affects a superiority over his fellows, it sets with ill grace upon him.This young man will never make great stir in the world; he will live upon his money--a lazy, stiff-necked gentleman--and be little known or cared for. He reads novels and light trash more than he studies any thing. 
Wednesday May 13, 1835. Levi M. Graves. This is a Canaanite. Levi is one of the common actors of our collegiate "boards." Although neither splendid nor powerful in intellect he is a decent scholar, a very agreeable companion, a warm friend, a Christian and gentleman. A trifling incident which occured last winter, on the appearance of a satire called the "Vision," caused Graves much paitJ.. Some of those who had been most severely handled imagined they had good and sufficient reasons for attributing a part of this vituperation to him. So, to effect summary vengeance upon the supposed offender, his window was smashed in while he was asleep, as foul and cowardly an act as ever was perpetrated. Graves knew not that he had an enemy in College but this act, which was not to be mistaken, proved that he had a mean and dangerous foe. Why should he not have been pained? 
Thursday May 14, 1835. Rainy during the day. Although I know but little of John R. Grout i know nothing against him. He has not come within the circle of my particular acquaintances. Thus much I can say, however, with safety, he is a good scholar and a man of considerable mind. In his manners he is gentlemanly and unassuming, he has some popularity in College and is universally spoken well of. 
Friday May 15,1835. Weather dull and lowering. Orville J. Harman of Bellville has the bump of mirthfulness considerably developed. His talents natural and acquired [are] respectable. As for his religious beliefs I have been credibly informed that he is skeptical. This young gentleman like 
663 
many others amongst us "feels his oats" pretty well. This however is expected in this world of sin and therefore is not thought very wicked. 
Saturday May 16, 1835. Rainy. Charles W. Hasbrook of Lansingburgh. A tall son of Anak. Possesses wit and no small share of brilliant talents, is lazy and has reputation of being one of the "Hard Cases" of College. Charles is no scholar but had so early acquired a name of a composer that he was elected sophomore orator. A specimen of his wit: One day Dr. Nott coming into Chapel with a very high shirt collar about his neck, Hasbrook remarked to his neighbor that "old Prex" had to jump up three times to spit over his dickey. 
Sunday May 17, 1835. Warm day. Our little Dominie Graves is undoubtedly a man of good talents --one who has studied much and learnt many things, his great knowledge of the Bible and the many fine things in his discourses substantiate; but withal he says many foolish things, has so much flat stuff mingled with his sermons, that one is led to wonder at the man who can possess such strange extremes. In delivery, which to the public speaker is Alpha and Omega, he is absolutely disgusting. The generality of ministers can at least sing their sermons decently but Graves cannot so much as do this passably. He can not possibly [possess] any kind of an ear for "Sacred music." Of all public speakers, who are more indifferent orators than clergymen? None. 
Monday May 18,1835. Let me introduce to your acquaintance Daniel A. Haynes of Alps. He is young, a man of short stature and respectable talents and among the first in scholarship. In quickness of comprehension he has no equal. His mind moves like lightning but that it is as strong as others' I will not avow. I recollect well how he recited in Analytic Geometry and Calculus to Capt. Jackson who, being remarkably apt in Mathematics, expected that all others could think as fast as himself. Dan, although he did not always recite so well as some others, could follow the Prof's demonstrations and comprehend his remarks better than any of us. 
Tuesday May 19,1835. This clean, clever, beardless boy is LeRoy Holmes of Greenwich. He has been in College a long time, during all which he has sustained a good character for scholarship, morals, and manners. His mind, which is neither brilliant nor powerful, is not of the highest order although by industry he sustains himself well. His class love him for his amiableness although they cannot respect him for superior talents. 
Wednesday May 20,1835. Daniel C. Hurlburt of Madrid. Come along, Daniel, and see yourself; don't be so bashful and retiring. I cannot say that this 
bD1/ 
young man knows a single student in College. He rings the bell and "burroughs" remote from every other being. He hangs his head and looks upon the ground. He recognizes no one but walks straight along minding his own business and communing with his own heart. As a scholar he is decent, farther I know not. Farewell, gloomy anchorite! 
Thursday May 21,1835. Chauncey C. Joslin of Fabius, a distant relative of Dr. Joslin, Prof. Nat. Phil. of Union College. I have heard him called in College slang a "poor old coot" and a "soft head"; these appellations, however, are a little too severe. Chauncey is doubtless dull of apprehension and rather a " slow and easy" fellow but is a decent mathematician nevertheless. Here let me stop; I am not his panegyrist. He took a school in 
á Cazenovia but had not "spunk" enough to govern or learning to teach it, so they pushed him off. Joslin came back to Durip and, having a little poetry about him, fell in love with a Miss Thompson whom he will doubtless marry after Commencement. He once associated much with this class, but of late he appears melancholy alone. 
Friday May 22, 1835. Ha! Ha! Ha! --my pen laughs. Duncan Kennedy, when I attempt to write thy character, thouá art as full of fun and good nature as the egg is full of meat. Can I forget thy careless rolling gait, thy laughing eye, or thy clever wit? This intimate acquaintance of mine is one of long standing. I have always known Kennedy as a good writer, a poor scholar, a Christian, a friend and agreeable companion. His talents are good. "Dunc" is one of the most skilful and notorious "fishers"* in College and a cunning rogue besides. 
Saturday May 23,1835. James Lawyer of Schoharie. I know nothing very good or very bad of this man. He has nothing but a common intellect so far as I can fathom him. Jim has considerable vanity, little spirit or industry and no character as a scholar. He may be commended for this, however: he minds his own business. If he knows but little he seldom renders himself obnoxious to others. Vale! Vale! James, Prosperity attend thee! 
*By "fishing" is meant stealing[?]your lessons in recitation room, 
either from a concealed book or scrap of paper. 
Sunday May 24,1835. Hot and sultry weather. Heard James --the talented, eccentric James, at the Presbyterian. He is a powerful writer but a miserable speaker. This is one of his eccentricities. Some time since his Congregation, being assembled at the chapel on the usual hour, found the pulpit empty; expecting James every moment the people waited in anxiety till eleven o'clock, when his elders set off to his house where they found him comfortably seated in his easy chair with his feet upon the mantlepiece. "Well, Mr. James," say they, "are you not going to preach?" "Oh no!" was the reply, "I am not going to the Chapel, I have nothing to say." 

Monday May 25,1835. Johnston Livingston of Tivoli. This is a young 
gentleman of family and wealth. His talents are respectable although not 
uncommon. He is amiable, well-bred, a gentleman and clever companion. 
Tuesday May 26,1835. Henry C. Lockwood of New Milford, Connecticut. This is a young gentleman of an easy, quiet disposition, unaffected in his manners, and indolent in his habits of study~ If Hane has no other virtue, he has that of cleanliness of person; no student is more neat and simple in his dress, or can introduce you to a nicer room.What this fellow will make I cannot say. Perhaps I might if I were a phrenologist, for he has a veri singular head. 
Wednesday May 27, 1835. James H. Mairs of Argyle. I know not much of. this Scotchman either for good or evil. He is one of the Washington County clowns, a pretty clever fellow, but not overstocked with brains perhaps. Jim uses his fiddle probably more than his book except perchance that he ls enticed from his favorite instrument now and then by the novelty of some new tale such as "Peter Simple," "Jacob Faithful" and other similar works. The general opinion of College respecting Mairs ls not altogether favorable; in other words he ls not popular. I have frequently heard individuals of the "boring" club designate him as a fit subject for their operations. 
Thursday May 28, 1835. On the strength of an invitation from Mr. Gillett by letter to come to Phildalphia for the purpose of teaching in a certain school adjacent to the city, I have concluded to spend a fortnight in that place on trial and, if there is mutual satisfaction between the trustees of this institutions and myself, to enter upon the duties of a teacher. Tomorrow, if nothing prevents, I start for Philadelphia. My tour to the city of "right angles" and 'brotherly love" will be found on a few separate leaves. 
Friday May 29, 1835. After a sound night's sleep I was awoke late in the morning by the following dialogue under my window, "Good morning, Dav, was you down to the fire last night?" "Yes." "How much was the damage done?" "About three thousand dollars, but he was insured for the whole amount." "Odds bobs!" says I bestirring myself. "Could the noise and alarms of a fire take place under my nose and I not know it?" So indeed it is in spite of me. 

On inquiry the facts appear to be that Vedder & McMullen's store took fire between twelve and one o'clock and that their goods were either burned or otherwise damaged to the amount of three thousand dollars. Two clerks were nearly suffocated, the building little damaged. Fire supposed to have originated in spontaneous combustion. 
Started at twelve o'clock for Philadelphia and, if I may be permitted to make the weather an omen of good or ill success, happy will be the result of my journey's toil. The dark lowering clouds which shrouded the western sky, accompanied with lightnings and deep-muttering thunder, disappointed not our hopes. It visited us with a grateful shower and passed away. A soft breeze succeeded and Sol smiled upon one of the loveliest of days. 
On board the steamship Constitution. I never saw the Hudson in all its glory till today. Its sloping banks are dressed in living green, and beautified with a thousand villas and towns. It seems as though nature had bestowed her choicest charms upon this noble stream. If a fertile soil, sublime and beautiful scenery intermingled, and healthful skies can "please the eye and content the heart" of man, here he has them in perfection. 
Towards evening vast masses of detached clouds floated along the region of the setting sun; their edges were lit up with unwonted splendor and the whole west glowed like a furnace. Rays of golden light streamed through the openings, producing one of the most agreeable varieties of light and shade that can be conceived. No one can be at a loss why this is called the season of contemplation. If the soul of man will not feel, yea if he be not borne away from himself on the pinions of imagination during the stillness of the eventide hour, he must be buried in selfish apathy. 
Who ever has felt the agony of being kept awake when he is fatigued and sleepy can readily imagine what one suffers on board of a wretched, crazy steamship which trembles at every stroke of the piston as though she were falling to pieces. No Morpheus, much less Somnus, comes near this Pandemonium unless perchance he do it stealthily and then he is soon frightened" away again by the noise of the machinery and the whissing of the steam. 
The weary passenger if [he] have the good fortune get a berth must lay upon his back all night breathing a hot and fetid atmosphere, listening to the heavy tread above, to the rushing waters without and whatever other thousand-and-one unearthly noises are incident upon a steamboat voyage; and strange music they are, too --a chaos of harsh sounds. 
Philadelphia Saturday May 30, 1835. Bless my Stars! I was last night lucky enough to 
get a pine board --one of the tea tables --to stretch my aching bones upon. There I lay for two hours in the cabin full of stench and steam, trying to stop my ears against the tremendous din of the machinery and courting "balmy sleep" by every art within my power, but to no purpose. My neighbors elbowed and squeezed me, some disputed my right to my hard couch, some talked and laughed immoderately loud, essaying "to drive dull care away," by jokes and jollity, some uttered nasal thunders in vexatious mocking of sleep whilst everything joined in chorus and prolonged the sound. 
I arose and walked upon deck. We were among the the "Highlands." On either hand were high rugged precipices whose summits, projected upon the brilliant sky, overhung the dark waters which rolled at their base. Ever and anon we passed little white-winged vessels whose indistinct-forms and dim outlines flitted by like spirits of the deep. Here again is a time for contemplation --a time which is made awful by the associations of timid childhood, and by the superstitions of olden years. 
Seven o'clock. Our lasy old machine has at last landed us in New York. Visited my uncle at 99 Liberty Street and at ten o'clock found myself on board the steamboat Swan for Amboy, passing up the Raritan. The banks are low, and marshy in many places, and the country quite uninteresting. 
Seven o'clock, on Camden & Amboy Railroad. Here again is another track of country, apparently very poor and barren. Through the whole length of the road I saw not one object worthy of note. It is one dull, dreary, monotonous way. 
Considering the immense travel between the two cities of New York and Philadelphia, I should think that this railroad was hardly what it ought to be. It answers, however, very well as an experiment, although there is no need of that, and will probably be much improved. Now it has only one track, and cars are drawn at the rate of only twelve or fifteen miles an hour whereas their speed should be at least double 
Burlington, three o'clock. Upon the banks of the Delaware [sits?] the splendid residence of Joseph Bonaparte, consisting of several piles of buildings in the midst of a wide and beautiful park. Whatever wealth and refined taste can effect in the matter of comforts and elegance may be found here. 
The steamship Trenton is decidely the best boat I ever set foot upon. In passing this high encomium I do not mean that she is the largest or swiftest boat I ever sailed upon but, what is more important to me, it unites great speed with a uniformity of motion which is astonishing. The machinery can scarcely be heard, much less any jerking and trembling of the boat be felt. 
It would be well if the proprietors of our North River steamboats would have regard to these important desiderata, viz. the easy working of the machinery and the uniform movement of the boat as well as to her speed. 

The shores of the Delaware from Burlington down are flatter than those of the Hudson but not the less fertile and embellished with neat rural cottages and splendid villas. Many of the venerable mansions which skirt these noble streams bear the marks of wasting age. The lofty wide-spreading elms which wave their branches over their moss-grown roofs have witnessed the succession of many generations. They have sheltered the heads of fathers and sons, alike faithful to both. 
Around these relics of past time there exists an air of comfort and venerableness which is peculiar only to the works of grey antiquity. Imagination here delights to rove, to conjure up an airy generation of her own and chequer the years that are past with incidents of corresponding unreality. Association too is active. It deals in realities and brings past and present together. 
Six o'clock. Our boat now heaves in sight of "the city of right angles." For miles the Delaware is skirted with lofty warehouses and wharves but is quite inferior to New York both in the amount of shipping and in commercial importance . 
City of the immortal Franklin and Penn! How pleasant it is to look upon thee! How thick rise the thoughts of the past! Doubtless the venerable old Quaker never once dreamed how strong his feeble colony was destined [to] be, much less could he have formed any just conception of its future importance when he allowed his mind to wander in the land of sober realities. I doubt whether even the keen vision of the Philosopher could peirce so far as to behold the prosperity of his adopted city which, like himself, I am now seeking for the purpose of there beginning my fortune in life. With a debt of two hundred dollars upon my shoulders, and a recommendation from my instructors as my only passport into the world, with no friends but those of my own making and no wealth but what my noodle contains, I set sail confident of the smiles of heaven and ultimate success provided-only I do my part. 
In action all the honor lies. Inglorious, yea damning, ease, the spoiler of high hopes and lofty imaginings in thousands of young and aspiring minds will doubtless --I speak this very confidently --will doubtless number me with his other disgraced victims. As paradoxical as it may appear, I can say that no man ever desired to be a great man more that I, and yet no one ever acted half so casually in regard to the perfection of his plans, and the realizing of his hopes. 
The will is strong but the mind undecided. The die will shortly be cast that shall determine my future standing among men. Aye I fear it is already cast to my utter disgrace. 

How the man of great expectations and ardent feelings dreads the oblivion of death --to be "alike unknowing and unknown." His soul shrinks from the fearful consideration and shudders at the prospect of an unhonored grave. 
Do we not see here the immortality of the soul with its unbounded desires? Ah! Jona[than], in spite of thy honor-pledged resolutions--thy sure prospect of success --thy spurring ambition, die you must "an unknown solitary thing!" 
Who will know thy name a hundred years hence? It may find a 
place  among  the  family  records  or  be faintly  decyphered  u pan  some  
mouldering,  moss-grown  tombstone,  but will be cherished  in  no one's  
heart.  
However I live, let me die the righteous man's death.  

Whilst "sentimentalizing" in this strain I found myself at the wharf. Here we met with the reception which all travellers must expect at a steamboat landing. Besides that the passengers squeezed each other almost to suffocation in their haste to land, it seemed as though Satan had loosed his imps upon us in the shape of cqachmen and porters. These importunate fellows have neither manners or conscience, for they will not keep hands off your baggage or take any kind of denial. If you should think proper to employ one of these starving rascals and make him a liberal compensation, even so much as you at first bargained for, he will go off grumbling and if possible extort more by some trifling pretence. 
Well, as good luck would have it, I got safe on shore and my valise without the help of any second man and soon found myself "at home" in friend Gillette's room, No. [?] Chestnut Street. Good night. 
"Citv of right angles" and "brotherlv love" Sunday May 31, 1835. Weather warm. Mr. Gillette is himself yet. I doubt whether he will ever "shed his skin" and become what his talents might make him if properly cultivated. The truth is he never yet studied nor will he, so long as he can manage to throw out his sentiments in decent style and pretty language. His way is very graceful, easy, his language fluent and his imagination vivid, but he is lamentably untutored; his blunders are sometimes palpable and ridiculous for a man of his station; if he stumbles, he jumps up again without minding his fall and sometimes not knowing it perhaps. Other men making his blunders would be mortified and be incited [to] greater diligence in preparing their sermons and cultivating of their minds, but he seems to be blest with a remarkably happy disposition that cannot be moved by any such trifles. His people are pretty well united in him; his congregation is large and respectable. My wish is that he may do them good. 
b{O 
Monday June 1, 1835. After breakfast with Mr. Gillett I rode to Haddington five miles from the city over the Schuylkill, for the purpose of visiting Mr. 
J. L. Dagg, principal of the Baptist Institution in that place. The country which lies beyond the river is gently undulating and under a high state of cultivation. It abounds with cottages, venerable mansions and gentlemen's country seats, all built in the most substantial manner and thickly shaded with trees and shrubs. 
The Pennsylvanians exhibit excellent taste in the embellishment of their grounds, the chief ornaments of which are the lofty forest trees profusely spread over the whole country; giving it more the appearance of a forest than a field. 
Haddington Mansion House, the residence of Mr. Dagg, is most delightfully situated in a fertile valley of considerable extent irrigated by the waters of a creek which winds through its whole length. In this lovely place, far retired from the tumult of the city or even a public road, surrounded by all that [is] beautiful in nature, is the Haddington School. 
It is as yet in its infancy, struggling to rise in spite of the coldness of. its friends. What will be the event time alone can tell. The Baptist cause numbers but few friends in Pennsylvania, numbers of which the greatest number dwell in the city. They are sufficiently wealthy to support a school liberally, but disunion has marked their measures in regard to this business. 
Both parties have a school but neither are what they should be. 
Haddington 
Tuesday June 2, 1835. Weather charming. Really this Haddington is a paradise. Its fields and groves are filled with flowers which impart a pleasant fragrance to the air, the ear is charmed with the songs of the birds that "all day long" warble among the branches, and the eye delights to wander over the green fields and the woody country thickly sprinkled with white farmhouses, and genteel residences. How calmly and smoothly does time glide here! 
The movement of his ponderous car feels no obstruction from the jarring elements of human strife. Uniformity marks his course and his unmeasured speed is scarcely felt. 
Philadelphia 
The Baptist Missionary Association of Pennsylvania met to adjournment at half-past three o'clock for the purpose of arranging their business and perfecting their plans of operation for the coming year. In the evening Howard Malcom spoke. He is a fine-looking man. 
GI/ 
Philadelphia and Haddington Wednesday June 3, 1835. I had the opportunity this P.M. of witnessing one of the most solemn funerals that ever came under my observation. The occasion was the death of a Brother Compton. The service was performed at the grave, which was surrounded by a large assembly of friends among whom was the whole missionary convention. 
Standing upon a grave stone Brother Gillett addressed the living spectators with peculiar effect. Why should not he? If anything would touch his heart and make him eloquent, it would be this mournful scene. Around him were the monuments of the forgotten dead almost concealed in the tall thick grass which flourished rankly upon the graves. Before were five orphan children just growing into manhood and all the untried fascinations of a deceitful world. 
Three are girls. Their grief was inexpressible. They sobbed aloud. Deep anguish so wrung their hearts that their feeble frames shook like the aspen leaf. One shrieked and fainted when she looked upon her father for the last time and was borne from the grave. There was hardly a dry cheek in the whole assembly, and none who did not feel the awfulness of the scene come over him with a deep and lasting impression. 
The assembly passed slowly away, one by one, after the exercises had ended, and the earth was quickly smoothed over the remains of one who had been a good man in life and had triumphed in his death. Soul, forget not this lesson! Let it teach thee wisdom. 
Philadelphia and Haddington Thursday June 4, 1835. As the circumstances of the lives, so those of the death of individuals are strikingly different. Some die as they have lived, unhonored and forgot. Their virtues may have found them a place in a few pious hearts, but if not raised above the "common herd" in rank and consequence none will care a straw for their virtue or offer one breath in extenuation of their characters. I was led to these thoughts by the humble burial of a very aged colored sister who was interred today in the Sansom Street graveyard. She had not a known relative on earth, and although now perhaps enjoying-the glories of heaven with him who lay down yesterday in the dust, how greatly different were their conditions in life. She had but few mourners, who shed tears around her grave. A few colored females only witnessed this last act of respect. There she will lie till the resurrection when she will rise in glory. 
Haddington Friday June 5, 1835. We have charming weather now. The wild flowers are all in full bloom and nature is clothed in her most beautiful attire. This I doubt not is a fine country for the study of botany; during my short sojourn here I have often wished some of my college friends could wander here with me and enjoy their enthusiasm for botany in this wide field for its exercise. 

What will be the result of my conference with Mr. Dagg I cannot as yet precisely say. I am now on a kind of trial which may be regarded as a mutual test, both of my ability to teach and of the inducements for me to stay. I cannot say that the situation which he offers is exactly what I want, neither is the school such as I had anticipated; nevertheless I am willing to sacrifice my interest at first if the prospects for the future shall be more cheering. 
I want to teach mathematics; they already have a tutor who is amply qualified to impart what little instruction the students need in this branch of science. I propose to instruct for a small compensation, provided I take no share in the government of the school and am not employed over five or six hours a day, but this school needs a man who will devote nine or ten hours daily to a parcel of little mischeivous boys, and all this to make them study and keep them out of mischeif. 
If Mr. Dagg convinces me that I ought to do this for the meagre compensation of four or five hundred dollars, well; but most assuredly I will not be so foolish. He is a fine man, however, and I have confidence that he, upon knowing my wishes, will make no proposals that will be inconsistent therewith. Should the friends of the Institution "put shoulder to the wheel," I will offer my feeble services and not suffer considerable sacrifices on my part to hinder me from forwarding its interest with my slender means. 
Saturday June 6, 1835. It is rather small business for a man who has spent his life in acquiring an education, has waded through ponderous tomes, and meddled with the sublimest sciences, to descend so low as to beat the rudiments of learning into the dull fates of lazy youngsters. An humble stoop indeed! He that can tax his pride so heavily will find no opposer in me, but as for my single self, it is a degradation I will never submit to. 
What more ought he to hope who assumes such an humble pedagogueship than that his own mind will be assimilated to those of his pupils? Mingling in the little affairs pertaining to the education of children, will he aim at higher and more noble objects? Nay, his mind will shrivel. It will never penetrate beyond the circumscribed limits of a schoolboy's education. Aim high and you may accomplish great things. 
Sunday June 7, 1835 . My purpose was to go to the city today but Mr. and Mrs. Dagg, wishing to enjoy the privileges of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, I consented to forego my own pleasure and stay with the boys. 
Heaven deliver me from another such day! The devil entered into these fellows soon after Mr. Dagg departed and through the whole day they showed him forth in their works to perfection. Although but few in number compared with the whole, and these the better part of the lot, they were into all kinds of mischief that human ingenuity could devise. 

Being a stranger, my authority was of course in a measure disregarded. They took advantage of my situation to do what I am sure they would not had they known me better. The more I observe the difficulties attending the government of a school of so many unruly boys, and the great disproportion between the compensation and the labor bestowed, the less I am inclined to become engaged in such an one. It is but a "dog's life" at the best. To be placed as governor over a set of wild boys is nothing less than a doom of slavery. Every mad prank calls for an exercise of power and your mind is continually racked with anxiety and on the stretch to contrive methods of counteracting the viciousness of giddy and untamed youths. 
Saving two hours of public worship in Chapel, I have passed the whole day in striving, against hope, to keep a dozen boys in any kind of decent time for the Sabbath. The time has been a total loss, nay, a consummate "bore" to me; for in my anxiety to be relieved from so burthensome a charge, the hours seemed to fly on tardy wing and mock all hopes of much-desired relief. If this is called a Sabbath, then farewell Haddington and all thy pleasant places, thy pure air and thy happy retreats! Let me enjoy at least the "First Day" quietly. Indeed I have not had the "Blues" so wretchedly this many a day. Perhaps they might be more properly called a touch of "home-sickness." 
Monday June 8, 1835. What a softness there is in these summer Zephyrs; what a sweet fragrance they bear upon their wings and in what lovely charms nature bedecks herself! The beau ties of the external world cause man's heart to leap with gladness, and his tongue to break forth in singing. He inhales health and vigor in every breath. Why is not he happy, completely happy, for whom all the agreeable varieties with which this beautiful earth abounds was created? Wherein lies the error so fatal to the happiness of the-noblest work of God? In the Great Architect? Nay, --but in man, who looks abroad upon God's pleasant works with an evil eye, who mingles with the pure fountain of pleasure the bitter waters of sin and poisons his nature unto death. 
Tuesday June 9, 1835. To the eye of the New Englander who has been accustomed to contemplate nature in her wildest and sublimest works, this fertile champain country is a matter of wonderment. Reared in a rough and romantic region and familiar with all that is grand in mountain scenery, or cheerless in a barren, rocky soil, it never once entered his mind perhaps, 
l/4 
till his prying curiosity led him forth from among his native hills, what a level and flourishing garden lay beyond upon the plains of the Far West and the Sou th. 
From the spot where I now stand the eye may trace the whole circumference of the horizon and not rest upon a single elevation worthy the name of a mountain. The whole plain is apparently a wide verdant forest. Towards the east, the location of Philadelphia is discovered by a steeple here and there peering above the trees, or by the topsails of vessels which navigate the Delaware. 
Wednesday June 10, 1835. Warm day. If asked what I am doing here that 
I stay so long, my answer is this, I am taking care of a lot of mischievous, 
á lazy little devils whose teachers are both absent, the one being sick, and the other employed on his farm. Oh! oh! Is'nt it a bore to me! It is through pure favor only that I consent to undertake so disagreeable a business for a few days. I would not be obliged to teach and govern a common school for life if the compensation should be an independent fortune. It is nothing but continual talk, talk and whip, whip from beginning to end. I want pupils whose actions can be directed by appeals to their consciences and good senses rather than to the rod. This coercing men to do right by physical punishment is a method that I do not wish to resort to, nor will I. Rather than descend so low as to place the fear of chastisement before my pupils as their motive of action I will throw up a profession which I have accepted in default of one more congenial to my feelings. This school is as yet no more than an experiment, an experiment which surely holds out meagre hopes of success in its present condition. The grand mistake of the Board of Managers was committed when they admitted any scholar to enter the Institution under the age of twelve years. It is true they made such a resolution in the outset, but finding the increase of large scholars advancing slowly and their funds to be insufficient to meet the necessary expenses, they suspended it or winked at its infringement. Now here are fifteen or twenty little fellows, hardly old enough to be loosed from their mother's apron-strings, who make more trouble for their instructers than all others put together. If the Managers intend to make this a boy's school, well; but if as I have been informed, they propose to establish a permanent High School for young men, the plan they should pursue is obvious --surely not to make it an infant school. The more I see and enjoy this beautiful country I am the more taken with it. Its surpassing beauty is daily unfolding itself to my view. In taking a ramble of two or three miles this evening I found myself wandering along a charming little valley. Upon the banks of a babbling brook which 

meandered through it lay a narrow road almost grown over with grass and 
shaded by tall trees. In this sequestered glen are some most lovely spots, 
such as my heart did covet. Here are ancient stone mansions, built in the 
most antiquated style, with their ample gardens and groves of venerable 
oaks. They have an appearance of comfortable aristocracy and bespeak the 
condition of the proprietors who occupy these ample domains. 
Here are green fields and verdant lawns sprinkled with wild flowers. Here was music, too, not merely the clack of yonder mill, or the voice of the murmuring creek chafing its pebbly bottom, but the cheerful notes of the birds that sing upon every tree and chant their loves in every green grove. 
Thursday June 11, 1835. In consideration 'of the ill health of Brother Dagg and Mr. Collum, the English Instructer, and also the absence of the assistant, Mr. Patterson, I have consented to lend my aid during the.remainder of the term, when I have prospects of a desirable situation as teacher of Classics. That this school should fail for the want of proper support, on part account of the inability of the instructers, most assuredly must not be. Rather than it should be so I will volunteer. 
The Baptist Cause here is undoubtedly, or will be, somewhat identified with its prosperity. If my weight can be thrown into that scale I wish so to do. 
Among the vast number of flowers which now clothe the woods and fields in beauty and fill the air with fragrance, that of the Tulip tree is worthy of particular notice. This tree is tall, slender and beautiful to look up on, and has its flowers upon the ends of the branches and twigs. This flower is large and often contains a table-spoonful of honey, for which reason it is much sought after by boys and bees. It much resembles in size and form the pond lily. 
Philadelphia Friday June 12, 1835. The Trustees of the Haddington Institution at a meeting this afternoon appointed me Assistant in their school. On the morrow I set face towards Schenectady with the intention of returning next week to undertake my duties. In contemplating the tax which this weighty charge will impose upon my abilities and my inexperience in the pedagogical art, I am ready to shrink back from the pressing responsibility. It is greater than I can bear. 
Here springs forth another source of discomfort. From being quite an irresponsible thing under the tuition of a school master, I must now in my turn mould the minds of others, foster their rising virtues, exterminate the poisonous plants of vice and be subservient to all the wild caprices of the tender mind. 

Oh! how bitter a thing it is to become a man, a selfish, self-made being, theá maker or marrer of his own fortune .. How uneasy the position of one who is both the hope of his friends and an object towards whom the whole circle of his acquaintances turn with tiptoe. 
Expectations! Surely all this, however, is well. We were not made always to be boys and shun the labor of thought and weight of responsibility. 
Saturday June 13, 1835. Bright sunny day. Nothing can exceed the beauty of the scene which lies within the range of the traveler's eye when leaving the wharf at Philadelphia and sailing up the Delaware. His heart swells with joy; and gladness beams from his countenance as he drinks inspiration from the pleasant works of nature. 
The receding city, the verdant banks of a river whose glassy surface is cut by innumerable white-winged vessels. Oh "dogs to be it" the muse won't go another stop. 
Oh! Oh!! Oh!!! what a vile tune these railroads play. It is enough to wear one's patience thread-bare to ride over them. In addition to deafening din and rattle of the coaches and the hoarse breathing of the wheezing engine, the eye seeks in vain for relief from the dull monotony of a sterile soil and common everyday scenery. 
If I ever travel upon a steamboat again, I will furnish myself with either books or a pen and ink to amuse my mind with. Why, it's an outrageous bore to be without something of the kind; in default thereof a man will smoke or drink, walk the deck to and fro, look at the ladies, sit down and yawn, get up and stretch himself and do many other things too foolish to mention. 
Observing an old fellow ragged and dirty, sitting upon the forward deck with a book, I carelessly passed by and read at the top of the page "The Life of Stephená Burroughs." Now that man had more sense than three-quarters of the better-conditioned travelers on our boat. He knew that the mind wanted continual employment which it could not have upon a steamboat without something of this kind. 
One cannot say that the scenery which the voyager enjoys in sailing round Staten Island is uninteresting, quite otherwise, especially as he approaches New York. The neat whitewashed cottages of the fishermen which line the shores, the verdant hills and splendid country seats that rise in the background form indeed no uninteresting picture, yet this, too long gazed upon, like a "thrice-told tale," wearies by satiety. Ergo, as I said before, when I travel again I will have a book to be my companion. 
Two o'clock in New York, the great focus of filth and business, the magnet which attracts all the villains of the continent. Five o'clock on the DeWitt Clinton, a floating city filled with hundreds 

of souls, eating, drinking, sleeping and acting as though they were on terra firma! What wonderful machines these steamboats are! which annihilate distance and bring strange cities, as so far as all the commercial affairs of life are concerned, into proximity, which in a mere fragment of time conveys whole communities from one spot to another without any diminution of their important conveniences and even many of the luxuries and elegances of civilized life, which in fine have wrought one of the most remarkable changes in the constitution of society that the experience of ages has witnessed. 
The law is more generous than the sanctioned rules of public opinion, for the former believes every man to be innocent until he is proved to be guilty, the latter teaches us to take every man for a villain. And yet it is well. The hideous depravity of human nature renders these cold, selfish feelings expedient. It would seem as though the primal curse of the first murderer rested upon every man. 
Let the sticklers for the goodness of man read in these single facts an 
argument reasons.  sufficiently  weighty to counterbalance their most specious  
Schenectady Sunday June 14 1835.  8 o'clock at home. The lukewarm Christian stands in  

a position respecting religion as little to be desired by the truly pious as that of the unbeliever. Like the fainting mariner becalmed under the parching rays of a vertical sun and enveloped by a deadly atmosphere, he drinks in death at every breath and is ready to despair in gloomy prospect of the future. He is halting between life and death --whether it were better to embrace the saviour, returning to his allegiance, or to cling to the world still contrary to his better judgement. Oh! what a fearful station such a man holds who belongs ostensibly neither to heaven or hell but has a doubtful foot upon either threshold. 
Monday June 15, 1835. I shall spend this week chiefly in closing up all my concerns in College, bidding adieu to friends, and attending the session of the "Hudson River Association." How hardly can I realize that this week closes my sojourn in College! That my sweet hours of ease and pleasure, which have flown so sweetly in the enjoyment of a good name and a wide circle of friends, are passing away like the unsubstantial visions of the morning --and that I must walk forth into life an accountable being by whom the destiny of millions will in a measure be affected; especially theirs who are within the immediate bounds of my influence. Moreover fame and fortune beckon, ambition urges and pride spurs me on to greatness by pointing out the road of virtue and industry. 
l/8 
Tuesday June 16, 1835. The Hudson River Association, which is holding its annual session in this city, is the largest and most respectable body of Baptists thus associated in the U. S. It consists of representatives from more than forty churches and numbers many individuals of the highest talents among its members. The introductory sermon by Mr. Williams, a young man from New York, was an admirable thing and [would] have done honor to any man, whether older or better renowned. 
Wednesday June 17, 1835. Lewis W. Mansfield of Waterford is rather a singular fellow on the whole. His scholarship is respectable, and his talents good; perhaps they may be called a little extraordinary. I have heard it said that he wrote one of the best compositions that was ever read before our class, yet in his manners he is one of the most forbidding persons that ever came under my observation. Although rooming in my section, we are scarcely acquainted. If he passes one in the street, he never deigns to bow even if you nod to him, but steers straight along with a proud, self.conceited air and haughty mein. Now I will not impute any censure to him from all this because I know not but his carriage belies his feelings. Undoubtedly it does in a measure. Be this as it may, the circumstance is unfortunate for him. 
Thursday June 18,1835. John S. McFarland, Salem. Thy little weazen face, John, has not gladdened the ways of College these many days. What has befallen thee, thou poor silly soul! Art thou dwelling among the daughters of Salem and tilling thy daddy's farm? Leave it not again to meddle with the affairs of learning which [thou] canst never manage."Poor-coot!" methinks I hear him now, blundering through a recitation with his eyes bent downward and with a bashful mefn. Goodbye, John, Success in life! 
Friday June 19, 1835. On board the boat Robert L. Stevens, North River. Having "done up all my chores" at home I took a painful leave of my friends last evening and rode to Albany. Oh! the sorrow of heart at the parting of friends! The separation weighs down our spirits and throws a gloom over the brightest picture of life. 
My sail down the Hudson today has been as pleasant as a good boat, fine weather, a continual change of splendid scenery plus the company of Harry Collier could make it, particularly that part which lay among the Highlands. The mind can scarcely conceive of a more romantic spot than West Point and its vicinity. On every side the traveller is surroundeg by towering mountains covered with verdure to their very top and presenting an impassible barrier as well to the range of vision as to the foot of man. Upon a kind of natural terrace, elevated some two or three hundred feet above the water, stand the splendid hotel and barracks of the U.S. Military 
l/9 
Academy. Below, the river by a sudden bend is lost from the sight. Out of this "amphitheatre of hills" wherein nature has sported in her wildest mood, the traveller finds no window of vision but the narrow defile by which the Hudson breaks through the Highlands upon the North. Looking up through this gap, wherein the sight is contracted to a mere line by the projecting angles and bendings of the river, one of the most splendid vistas is seen that ever the eye enjoyed. What conduces chiefly to the effect of this beautiful sight is the marked contrast between the dim prospect of the pretty village of Newburgh, with its environs clothed in the azure of distance and the wild scenery of the surrounding mountains dressed up in all the verdure of Summer. Imagine if you can, besides all this, that you hear loud peals of thunder following each other in quick succession and 
á bellowing through the mountains with deafening reverberations, then you will catch a sight at the shadow of what I witnessed while passing the Highlands. 
Philadelphia 
Saturday June 20,1835. Cold, raw day. Windy. In passing round Staten Island to Amboy saw a sailboat capsize with two men, poor fellows! How they labored and pawed the water to get upon the keel! There they sat shivering, close in shore, when we passed them waiting for assistance. They undoubtedly "met with a very cool reception." Two o'clock, at dinner in Chestnut Street with Dominie Gillett. 
Sunday June 21,1835. Cold, cheerless weather. In the forenoon heard Mr. G., Sansom Street, and Dr. Brantly at three. The Rev. Doct. has the reputation of being a scholar and lover of literature but very lazy in regard to all labor in his clerical profession. The story goes that he is about to stand at the head of a College in South Carolina. In personal appearance few men are his equal; in him with great stature is combined a symmetry of proportion, a dignity and majesty that can not fail to command respect. 
Haddington 
Monday June 22,1835. I approached the scene of my labors like an unwilling culprit to the gallows. I began to be "blue" before arriving at the "Mansion House." The weather was cold and dreary. That did not help the matter much. Through Mr. Gillett's management I got stowed into a one-horse Dearbon with four other persons. Thinks I, this old fellow dost not much like my intrusion. All mere surmise on my part, doubtless, for the good man seemed mightily pleased with my company. Then the uncertainty of my success at teaching, in which I now was about to make an experiment, these and many others, I say, made me a little "blue." On the whole I must confess that mine is but a chicken's heart, having too much of the woman in it. Indecision and distrust of my own powers are 

two prominent characteristics in my constitution. I would that these 
portions of my mother might be eradicated. 
Tuesday June 23, 1835. I find myself writing thus to my sister this evening. "Today I have had one of the most 'tremendous' hard day's work that I ever performed; it was no less than teaching ten hours, four more than I intend to spend again unless absolutely necessary. The occasion of this extra labor was the indolence of some half-dozen little curs whom I was determined 'to bring up to the mark' by obliging them to stay with me after school till they should learn their lessons. A few more such trials will accomplish what I desire. Do you wish to know how I like this teaching? I answer as before, I do not crave the task of managing boys and were it not in prospect of some better station would never [have] accepted the one which I now occupy. I know not how my feelings may change with my experience, but for the two days past these mischeivous little devils have been a "consummate" bore to me and I am still of the opinion that to be a pedagogue is the very perfection of human slavery. I only wish that. fortune had given me a competency of the good things in life, and I would see every brat in christendom "to Guinea 11 ere I would undertake to beat common sense into their noddles." 
Wednesday June 24,1835. All good men who have written about the institution of marriage have been its eulogists; even Paul, an "old bachelor," says "marriage is honorable. 11 Undoubtedly he speaks rightly, for in the eye of the moralist or political economist the matrimonial obligation is regarded as a safeguard to virtue and the main ligament by which society is bound together. It affords us an interesting picture of lasting attachment, of friendship as strong as death. But the point which I was aiming to introduce is this, that the conjugal affection is extremely selfish and exclusive in its character.á No sooner is a connubial union affected between two persons than their hearts are shut against the renewal of former intimacies or the contraction of new attachments. All their thoughts and affections center in each other and their souls are knit in one bundle of love. Who has witnessed the nuptials of a friend and not felt the withering blight of estranged affection, although at the same time we rejoiced at his good fortune? Who has sympathized with the joyful bridgegroom and not felt the momentary pangs of black envy rankling in his breast? 
Thursday June 25, 1835. I resume the sketches of character. Andrew M. Millspaugh of Hamptonburgh. His peculiar vices or good qualities are little known to me. He is said to favor me; if so, I have less opinion of my looks than ever. As a scholar and gentleman I have heard nothing to his discredit although I do not think him a very brilliant or original genius. He is one those common everyday characters which are often to be met in colleges, whose minds are precisely what their schoolmasters have made them --whose thoughts flow in channels marked out by other intellects, and whose common sense and virtue exceed either the brilliancy or originality of their mental faculties. 

Friday June 26,1835. A tremendous storm accompanied with thunder and lightning. Otis Parkhurst of Milford, Mass. This gentleman entered Union on dismission from Washington. No one ought to be hasty in forming an opinion against a man's character; his reasons should be sufficient and weighty. Such, I believe, are mine for believing Parkhurst to be a fellow of little or no principle. That he occasionally "tips a little," is well attested; that he is skeptical and blasphemous, not be denied; and I might say darker things of which it is whispered he is guilty, but without sufficient proofs. No man can play the gen tlman better than he, either in word or action. His talents are ordinary as also his scholarship and compositions. 
Saturday June 27, 1835. Cloudy all day but exceeding hot and sultry. Visited Fairmount, "the Lion" of Philadelphia. In consequence of the excessive fatigue, however, attendant upon so long a perigrination in extreme hot weather, I did not receive that pleasure which I had anticipated from the celebrated "water works." They indeed are worthy of the highest praise and fully answered my expectations, but the adjoining scenery disappointed me very much. With Fairmount I had associated all that was beautiful in groves and walks and rural magnificence, all that is inviting in cool retreats and balmy air, in fine, all that is agreeable in the contrast between the confused din of a great city and the quietness that pervades the walks of retirement. I had fancied that this was a region dedicated to some sylvan deity, and filled with quiet country seats. How was I surprised then to find Fairmount in the outskirts of the city, entrenched about by deep excavations for new streets, just raising its head above the smoke-and dust that float around its base. Instead of retreating from noise, the visitor's ear is continually saluted with the rumbling of wheels over the pavement or the clack of a neighboring manufactory. I am astonished that Philadelphians, whose enlightened policy and abounding wealth enable them to construct so magnificent a dispensary of health and comfort, should not have guarded it against the encroachments of the city and made it as pleasant as it is useful. l wonder that in the rage for levelling and overturning they had not ploughed Fairmount itself down into the Schuylkill, and erected upon the spot miserable shanties akin to these which now encompass it for the accomadation of wild, fighting Irishmen. 

The only spot that is at all endurable about the "water works," which are celebrated wherever Philadelphia is known, is the promenade about the Great Reservoir on Fairmount, together with the yard in front of the Superintendant's house situated at the foot of a precipitous rock forming the west side of Fairmount. This latter place, well laid out into parterres and gravel walks, is planted with trees and ornamented with jets d'eau and statues. But what most merits the attention of the visitor is the simple but powerful machinery which forces up to the heights of some one hundred and fifty feet all the water that supplies the whole city of 
Philadelphia. Six water wheels are the waters of the Schuylkill. The thousand dollars.  employed dam alone  for this purpose, cost one hundred  turned and fifty  by  
Haddington  

Sunday June 28, 1835. He only who has been where church bells usher in the sacred morning with solemn peals, where religious assemblies meet and devout worshippers bend the humble knee, can properly value the solemnities of the Christian Sabbath when deprived of them. So thought I today as I sat lonely in my room counting the lazy hours and cherishing the worm of melancholy that knawed at my heart. How I sighed for those despised and neglected privileges which I once enjoyed! for an humble seat in the House where the saints worship! or even a place upon the threshold! Oh! the face of some old friend! some well-tried acquaintance! How mv heart would have leaped to have seen such today! It would have been a cordial to my weighed-down spirits. I never before felt the 
worth of a friend. I tho't of home and its endearments and sighed for an hour's visit to one quiet little parlor. I listened to the noisy sports of the boys under the piazza and "felt "blue." I took up a book to read but found my mind wandering and my eyes fixed in blank vacuity upon its pages. Had a sudden and heavy [shower?] this afternoon. 
Monday June 29, 1835. Edward A. Reed of Waldoborough, Me. is a very innocent, clever-iooking little fellow of common capacity, and rather questionable principles. His "worst move" in College was to take [a] room with Voorhees, a notorious "Hard Case" and unfit for the society of any young man of unfixed morals and unstable purposes. With this fellow Reed not only acquired a bad name but several bad habits; and although by no means so vicious he was made to "father" a good share of the sins of his associate. His conduct was particularly suspected by the faculty, and it was only by mere favor that they permitted him to remain in College during this term. 

Tuesday June 30, 1835. Alexander G. Reynolds of Cross River. 1 have known him something like two years as a man of good parts and correct, gentlemanly deportment. The obvious bent of his mind is towards Mathematics, which he makes not only his chief study but the general topic of all conversation. "Sandy" is an industrious student and a pretty close thinker although for the life of him he cannot tell what he knows. I've seen the poor fellow completely abashed in the recitation room so that he would stammer and stumble through his lesson in perfect confusion. What is best known to him, he seems little able to communicate to others, yet I have heard him in debate make very sensible remarks apparently with considerable ease. To me Reynolds was always a complete puzzle, and he who at first I took for a blockhead now commands my respect and esteem as a man of talents and worth. Whenever alone he appears thoughtful and buried in deep study. 
Wednesday July 1, 1835. Josiah S. Sacia of Canajoharie. This young man entered College in the sophomore year and has been decidedly unpopular throughout the whole course. I do not know that he has committed any flagrant act for which he is thus lightly esteemed, but his general appearance and carriage among his fellows is not such as will command respect. The proud step, the scornful curl of the lip, the haughty eye, and the supercilious air: these are unhappily adapted to conciliate favor. Besides these personal disadvantages Sacia is afflicted with a large share of vanity and pride, together with an irritableness of disposition that often places him in a ridiculous position before his fellows. I consider him a smart young man. In recitation he is good, but regarding his compositions I can not say much, having to my knowledge never heard any; presuming however from his other performance á1should judge that they might be very respectable. 
Thursday July 2, 1835. Silas B. Silver of Rock-Run, Md. is one of the original members of our class, having come to Union quite early as the first-term sophomore. During the whole of his subsequent career we have been friends. Of course I have had frequent opportunities of knowing him well. Thus much I can assert, that the good opinion which I have entertained for him has not suffered any by long acquaintance. On the contrary it has increased. Silver in person is tall and exceedingly slender built. His disposition is mild. As a companion Iá know of none more cheerful and agreeable; as a gentleman he loses nothing by comparison; as a scholar, respectable. I do not believe that he will ever make a very active man in any situation or attain to pre-eminence, yet his talents are such as will command respect. 

Friday July 3, 1835. Jasper Smith of Coeymans. This is a fine clever little fellow. He has been long known to me; we not only belong to the same literary society but have been upon terms of considerable familiarity. As a friend, a companion, and a gentleman I can not award him too much praise. He is universally esteemed by his fellows for amiableness and good deportment. Smith is a respectable scholar; his talents are ordinary. I _do not think he will ever shine in the world. 
Saturday July 4, 1835. Joseph W. Smith of Machias, Me. This man is called "The Patriarch" of our class and indeed I suppose he is if age can make him so. He in some measure is made a butt of by the wags of College chiefly in consequence of his rustic, antiquated appearance and modest reserve. What his talents are I really cannot tell, so slight has been our acquaintance, but as a scholar I should place him in a medium between our greatest blockheads and best students. One commendable virtue he certainly has--that of punctuality. Smith is never found out [of] his place. He associates but little with his classmates and is usually sitting in his room, with a book. He is a Christian. 
Extremely hot weather. This then is t~e "glorious 4th" again! the universal holiday of this Great Republic --our grand national jubilee, and Sabbath day of freedom! May it well be remembered and celebrated on every returning anniversary with speeches, with bonfires and rejoicings! It is too often degraded into a day of licentious freedom. Men who carry through the year in sobriety too often think they have a perfect right to get beastly drunk on "the 4th" and riot in all foolish excesses. I observed that old black "Richard," our gardener, had found out at an early hour that this was "Independence Day" for by ten o'clock he was quite well "over the bay" and very fierce for visiting the city. 
The boys of the Institution held their "bobalation" at eight o'clock in the Chapel where one of the "bigger ones" made a stump speech full of pith and pathos whilst another read the "Declaration." The little fellows were full of glee and with their military company contrived to make a very decent miniature Celebration. The only relaxation which I enjoyed was a respite from my ordinary duties and the opportunity afforded for study. 
Philadelphia Sunday July 5, 1835. Started early from Haddington to attend meeting in the city, but failed of avoiding the heat with all my caution. Before arriving to the city my blood was boiling and the perspiration flowed plentifully from my face. Seeing the lazy coaches rolling leisurely along with their rich burthens cased in ample folds of silks and broadcloths, I thought it might be a convenience just then to be a rich man, however troublesome such baggage might be to one when striving to enter heaven's narrow gate. 
The solemn and impressive ceremony of Baptism was administered upon four converts this morning in the Sansom Street Church. These with seven others, who were admitted by letter, received the right hand of fellowship from Mr. Gillett in the afternoon and partook of the Lord's Supper. This is a pleasant sight to see, tender plants springing up in the garden of the Lord, spreading their branches and taking deep root, so that the storms of life's tempestuous atmosphere can neither up-root them or deprive the world of their pleasant fruits. Why should not Christians be glad when heaven rejoices? or earth echo back, at least faintly, the melting expressions of angelic love? Surely we should not be less interested in what concerns us mainly, than they whose happiness cannot be more complete by the conversion of a world. 
These young disciples reminded me forcibly of the folly of this world's wisdom when weighed with divine Philosophy. This contemplates the ultimate destiny of man and his highest good; that regards him more as a thinking animal of circumscribed existence and desire capable of being satisfied, than as an immortal spirit dwelling here only as if life was merely the threshold of eternity--that magnificent structure which none can comprehend till he enters and whose glories and woes it hath never entered into the heart of man to conceive. The very contemplation of man's folly and the emptiness of their pretensions who call themselves Philosophers, yet despise God and his superior wisdom,, makes language too poor to carry to the mind the faintest idea of his deep depravity. Oh what a book eternity will be to us! We shall learn therein what we have feigned to despise here, to our shame and confusion. Some will read with joy, some with sorrow, but all by the light of unerring, incontrovertible truth. Time's Philosophy will be a dwarf beside the giant of eternal truth, and all his deluded votaries will shrink ashamed in the presence of heavenly wisemen. 
Monday July 6, 1835. Arose bright and early and strode "old Shank's mare" for Haddington. I suppose the Lark awoke Aurora, and all the the little birds ushered in the day with merry song, but I did not have the pleasure of witnessing so-poetical a scene, therefore will not say so. What I did experience this morning, however, was quite as impressive and substantial as any dream of the imagination, being no less than a complete drenching by an unlucky shower which came upon me unawares. I am always glad to see the dew of heaven descend, but hang me if I very much rejoiced this morning while receiving the pelting of the storm upon my unprotected head. It was rather cool comfort. I sought shelter beneath the branches of an old oak, but this helped the matter little; My hat brim soon became eaves from which the water fell very plenteously as well as from my nose and fingers. Oh the comfort of being caught in a shower without an umbrella! May I never be blessed with such another ducking! Arrived late to school wet and cross. If some of my little devils' backs did not smart, then I very much mistake. 

Tuesday July 7, 1835. Weather very warm. I have before had occasion to mention H. Belden's name, one of the oldest members of our class and a particular friend of mine. It is to be doubted whether a more roguish fellow infests Union College. I say this not to his disparagement, for he is incapable of a mean thing but as further development of his character. One of the most daring and dangerous feats which I ever knew him to be accessory to was committed the night before the 4th of July, 1834. The gun house belonging to the military of the city was forced and the only piece of ordnance with which the Dorpians were to celebrate the day was removed. Next morning the customary salutes were not fired. This excited some surprises in many. Soon it became noised through the town that the cannon had been stolen and no one for a long time could start upon any track which gave any prospects of success in the recovery. Some laid it upon students, others upon the "Battle Ground loafers" but all agreed that it was a bold trick and that the perpetrators were cunning, daring fellows. All that part of th~ town who felt most interested in burning powder and making a noise immediately joined in the search; and by certain recent marks upon the Union Street Canal bridge were led to search the Canal where they found the lost treasure spiked with a handsaw file. Here again was another obstacle to be surmounted before they could run the risk of having their brains blowed out. Late in the day, however, after incessant labor the touch-hole was cleared, the peice [made] ready for use. Now all the mischeif was planned by a party of students. Watches were placed along different streets leading to the Arsenal with orders to give signal of any intruder. Another party forced the lock, unmounted, spiked and removed the cannon without arousing a single person. Concerning this business it may be said of Belden "magna pars fuit." So at least I am told. 
Wednesday July 8, 1835. Extremely hot. Levi Sternberg of Sharon. This is a pretty smart clever little "High-Dutcher,"--a good scholar, and quite decent composer. His talents I should not call ordinary, but rather above the common order. Being but slightly acquainted with this gentleman personally, I can say little about him, except from mere rumor. He will doubtless make an able and useful man. 
Haddington Thursday July 9 1835. Charles Stillman of Schenectady is the son of a machinist who has several other sons, all ingenious workmen. Thomas is superintendent of the "Novelty Works~ New York, and Alfred who till lately has been engaged with his father in Schenectady, has just returned from England whither he was sent by Dr. Nott upon business relative to his steam boilers. Charles, like the other brothers, has very considerable taste for mechanics. He is modest and unassuming, reserved among his fellows and extremely bashful. His unpretending manner and amiable disposition make everyone his friend. As a scholar he has few superiors. He has an impediment in his [speech] which his diffidence greatly increases, being often so embarrasing as almost to prevent him from speaking a word intelligibly and throwing him into very awkward predicaments especially in his recitations. I mean a habit of stammering. This I fear will ever unfit him for any business that depends much upon the use of his tongue. Aware of this, he has chosen the profession of Medicine, and studies under the tuition of Dr. Joslin. Stillman's talents are such as give his friends high hopes of his future usefulness. My worst wish for him is that his course in life may be as blameless as his Collegiate. 

Friday July 10, 1835. Vernon Tichenor of Amsterdam. I should wrong this man to say anything very bad of him, and the truth to extol him highly. In College our rooms were adjacent We often met and were on friendly and familiar terms, yet I cannot say that I ever either loved or respected him very much. The reason of this probably may safely be laid in my own pride and conscious superiority. Tichenor is one of [many?], a distinction which is as truly made in College as elsewhere. He is a man of ordinary talents, both natural and attained, a slim scholar and a comfortless companion. 
Haddington 
Saturday July 11, 1835. Fine pleasant weather. George Van Inwegen of Port Jervis. Of this young Dutchman I must confess I have but a poor opinion. Besides having but a weak mind and indolent habits, his moral principles are none of the best. In truth we class him among the loafers of College, who handle the cards better than their books except they be novels. He is a fellow little thought of and having no influence in his class. I will not waste pen and ink upon him. 
Received a letter this evening from "Bob Strong." I devoured it with great gusto and, having so short and sweet a communion with an absent friend, I longed for that closer communication of sentiments which takes place face to face. An epistle in due season is like water to the thirsty soul. The seat of "Bob's" news is chiefly in College. The last meeting of the Phi Beta Kappa Society for this term was held lately and resulted in no election. I do not wholly disapprove of this Society. I see nothing bad in its constitution or object, but the vile manner in which it is perverted in Union College is scandalous. One member has a particular friend whom he wishes to promote to the honor of its membership, and because the other members cannot be unanimous with him he may oppose any man proposed by them and thereby prevent an election until the whole society may be coerced to his private opinions. 

These "Secret Societies" are the root of all this evil which will ever prevail so long as these clubs are in operation. They break the members up into little parties with separate interests and hostile feelings. Prejudice binds them to their own faults and to others' virtues. How then can they judge impartially and with equal judgements upon the merits of men who are proposed for admittance to their fellowship? Oh what bickerings and strifes and scandal I have witnessed in this association! How lasting these lessons of human depravity which I have learnt. It may be an honor in the eyes of many to swing a PBK key at their watch chain. but often it is small business. 
Sunday July 12, 1835. We have had every variation of weather, sometimes rainy and sometimes clear. Listened to two short exhortations from a couple of young men who are preparing for the ministry. Excepting these, had nothing but the loud laughing and noisy conversation of the boys under my window, a method of keeping the Sabbath as unwelcome to me as it is novel. I am well aware of the difficulty of restraining the unruly passions of a body of boys, yet methinks they might be a little more quiet and sober. Obstacles increase desire. Here I find an eminent example of this universal principle in human nature. Play which is stolen upon the Sabbath, while from under the immediate inspection of a parent or teacher, is peculiarly grateful to the boy. He taxes his ingenuity to devise methods of eluding the vigilance of his overseer. 
Monday July 13, 1835. Extremely hot weather. The only roguery which I remember to have been guilty of in College was the "ducking" of Prof. Averill, nicknamed "Old Spike." He received this cognomen from his tall and slender form. As a teacher he is generally liked; as a man, as universally detested. Besides being quick and passionate in his disposition, he tyrannizes over his charge with haughty sway and gets the ill-will of all who feel his overbearing authority. I have known him on many occasions to fly into violent passion on the slightest pretense and, after coming out of his fit, make apologies for his hasty anger. Now it was such a man as this that I contrived "to train" by baptizing him with a cold bath. 
At the farther end of a long dark passage leading to the College Library is a descent of three or four steps. Above these I fixed a pail turning by an axle to which I attached a string leading from one of the steps which, by the least pressure, overset the whole machine. 
On Friday morning Averill opens the Library. The night before, the pail was filled with water and the string fixed. The following morning was cold and dreary. "Old Spike" came shivering up from breakfast in his long surtout, with key in hand to open the Library. He groped his way unsuspectingly along the passage, descended the steps and met with one of the coolest and most unwelcome receptions that any poor wight [ever?] experienced. He retreated as well as he could, dripping with water. In the countenances of all he met there lurked more secret satisfaction than commiseration for his misfortune. 

Tuesday July 14, 1835. Cornelius S. Van Santvord of New Baltimore is a pretty familiar acquaintance of mine, having been in College since the beginning of sophomore year. "Case" is a lively, cheerful companion, a 
á superficial scholar and mighty vain withal. He delights to get a laugh upon another but can illy bear to be made the subject of a joke himself. He values himself chiefly upon his talent for composition and is forever scribbling some sonnet or love tale for this newspaper and that --thereby flattering his vanity more than improving his mind. Of a certain notorious trio consisting,, besides himself, of John Van Buren and Uriah Marvin, he is a prominent member. These fellows are known as the silliest dough-heads in our class. Their time is much spent in manufacturing tales for various periodicals which are fit vehicles for carrying such trash, neglecting not only their studies but almost every other duty. Nothing can check their rage for publishing. No criticism, no ridicule, can bring them to their senses. Poor fools! if they were beat in a mortar with a pestle. still they would have no common sense thrust into their noodles. The fact is they have infinitely more self-confidence than judgement, therefore they make dunces of themselves. 
Wednesday July 15, 1835. Commenced raining in the afternoon and continues yet (ten o'clock) pouring down like a torrent. James L. Voorhees of Amsterdam. In speaking a word of the character of this young man I am sorry to say that I scarcely know any good of him. For all his vices I cannot note one virtue. No one speaks well of him, all suspect and shun him. Now with what degree of justice his character is so universally detested, I am not able to determine since my acquaintance with him is but slight. However, in such weight of testimony there must be at least some truth, yea too much doubtless for his good. Voorhees' debut in College was exceedingly unfortunate. He came on green and inexperienced, bearing in his heart the seeds of bad moral principles sown by an infidel father. His character had preceded him and on his arrival he was singled out by the wags of College as a fit subject for sport and the butt of their ridiculous pranks. They had him completely 11gabosified, 11 as they term it, in less than a week, by initiating him into a humbug Society where the poor fellow was 
G30 
duped in a most laughable manner. Few young men ever stand the seven.fold ordeal of College ridicule. If they fall, their rise is next to a miracle; if they stand unmoved and turn the joke upon their unfeeling triflers, they establish a character at once with which no one after thinks of trifling! It was Voorhees' misfortune not to have wit enough to see that he was imposed upon before the joke was all over. It was not then too late to learn wisdom if he would. 
I have known men who have been materially benefitted by being "trained" at their outset in College. They learned a lesson and profited thereby, but our hero never got over his introductory step. He was "bored" for being a "green horn," an untaught, unmannerly fellow --a nuisance, and became little bettered by two years' experience. At card-playing he was reckoned an adept, and as if he could not sufficiently manifest his vicious taste by ordinary means, he hung his room about with bawdy pictures which he delighted to exhibit and make the subjects of vulgar remarks. During this term I think he has permission to remain at home. 
Voorhees is by no means a dunce. He undoubtedly has talents which if improved would raise him to eminence, but indolence and vice wholly unmans him. Kennedy tells me that he had no equal in the Academy where he fitted College; I have no reason to think otherwise. He has really the finest forehead in College. 
Thursday July 16, 1835. Last night's rain made the air charming, cool and refreshing. John Wells of Johnstown. I have always thought him to be a clever, amiable little fellow till of late it was intimated that he was a mischievous dissembling rogue. True, I was aware that the company which he kept was not of the most virtuous character but still I supposed he might keep himself uncontaminated by their evil example and come out pure and unspotted. Young men often by circumstances beyond their control are placed in situations where it is impossible to choose their own company, yet if they possessá moral principle enough they may pass through the enchanting scenes of vice and come out uncontaminated. Wells may not be one these moral giants. His talents are quite respectable, his scholarship good..
Friday July 17, 1835. Through long and weighty labor, anxiety, and continual talking, I find myself at the close of this day completely exhausted. My lungs are so weak that I can hardly breathe, my side and breast pain me, my head aches, my mind is sad and dejected. What would induce me to spend another such week? Or, rather where could I get strength to enable me to do so. Alas! how full of trouble this world is! Who can find peace therein? In anticipation it is a voyage of pleasure, calm, secure, and tranquil. Youth promises the realization of splendid hopes. Old age and experience gives the lie to all his empty, delusive dreams. His imagination paints scenes fairer than the reality, elevates what is low and magnifies what is mean until truth is darkly hid beneath a false coloring that can only be stripped off in the day of trial. If hope is an anchor to the soul, experience surely is the tempest which often drags her from moorings and drives her upon the rocks and shoals of life where only despair and discontent reside. Oh! were it not for this soul, man might be happy here --as happy as the beasts that perisheth, but it will not let him be quiet. The flesh offers it baubles and gewgaws to play with but like a petulant child the soul spurns them; it tickles her with a name that soon tires, it flatters to deceive in every act of life; in fine, it cheats her of eternal joy and plunges her in still deeper woe, such as can never be 

alleviated. So young an adventurer as I am with some prospect of success, I often wish my soul freed from this clay. 
Philadelphia 
Saturday July 18, 1835. Warm day. Visited friend Gillett for the last time before taking unto himself a wife. On Monday he starts for New York, marries a wife, and Tuesday takes boat for Schenectady. Success to the poor old bachelor! May he never find a wife a less comfortable thing than he anticipates. Hang me! if I believe after all that marriage is so fine a thing. In many respects, it makes a real slave of a man. It destroys one half of his liberty (not liberty to do evil), it ties him to a lump of flesh as troublesome and as wayward as himself, so like the Siamese twins they two must go through life as an encumbrance to each other, at least so it is with the man. It will not do, however, to speak lightly of the matrimonial state because it a remedy for a fraility to which all men are subject. 
Sunday July 19,1835. Warm day. In the afternoon attended worship at the Orphan Asylum, an interesting institution in the western part of the city upon the Schuylkill. The building is plain but commodious and contains accomadations for a large company of little boys and girls. I have not witnessed a more interesting spectacle for many a day, these children all neatly dressed assembling in the chapel for worship and raising their feeble sweet voices in songs to praise their only Father. 
Took tea at Mrs. Coskay's, a widow lady. She has a pretty daughter engaged to one Knowles who was present, and as people will usually talk of what is uppermost in their minds the conversation naturally turned upon love and marriage. The Dominie, who is in the same predicament as the young couple, [preached?] upon the pleasing theme. Of course I was but a cypher among these veteran lovers who, having experienced all the trials of a hard service, could now dwell with pleasure upon their conquests and the happy consummation of their wishes. 

How flat this quaint story of love is to a man of common sense. He believes indeed in the existence of such a passion, he feels it towards every friend, but cannot be made sensible wherein lies the peculiar sanctity of that love which exists between man and woman. "Matches are made in heaven," it is said, "and vows on earth." It may be so, yet really I am hard to believe. "Their love is kindled at first sight"; this maxim doubtless is as apocrophal as the former. Indeed the bare admission of such an idea is enough to teach a man the folly of all pretended sacredness and divinity in matters of love. Wherein lies the peculiarity of that attachment which exists between man and woman? All other things being the same (save sex),. does real love differ from that which happens between individuals of the same sex? I think not. The great cause of difference among these friendships is the difference of sex. True, no high-minded man when courting an accomplished lady may not have the enjoyment of her person immediately in his thoughts. He may think that his affection for her is completely sifted of such sensuality, yet after all I believe this forms a very important ingredient in that compound called love, notwithstanding it be so cunningly hid from ordinary investigation. He who can tell me that he sincerely loves a lady and finds no inclination towards her of a carnal nature, I must think knows little of his own heart or the analysis of love. 
Monday July 20,1835. Very warm day. Elos L. Winslow of Norfolk is a man of considerable talents and respectable scholarship. He has an obstinate, unyielding disposition and rather a "narrow soul." This I have been aware of in the admission of members to the PBK Society where two or three times he has singly withstood the will of the whole body of members and hindered an election merely for the purpose of "riding in" some favorite of his own. I think my. experience has been such as to confirm what I have asserted. Winslow is tall and rather reserved in his manners. As to his moral character I know little. Some have said that he was an infidel; this however I can not affirm or dispute, having had little acquaintance with him on those matters. 
Tuesday July 21, 1835. Warm and refreshing shower in the P.M. Vernon Wolcott of Shoreham Vt. Being a "university student" I conclude this nondescript animal has left College entirely, for he has not been seen upon the premises these several terms. The last that the "Governor" was heard of was in Albany some months since where he was publishing a kind of Geographical Chart from which he anticipated realizing a snug little revenue. But for want of funds the printer laid embargo upon his work until the unlucky publisher could pay for the paper and ink. Vernon solicited a loan of fifty dollars from various students in college ( the last 
l33 
place for money) but whether he succeeded, remains yet to be told. His uncouth appearance and eccentricity of manners made him the subject of universal ridicule. In stature he was tall and lank, his nose was long and red like a beet, his eyes large and snakish. Vanity was his besetting imperfection. Whatever he did was always beyond criticism in his own estimation. and whoever was saucy enough to speak his faults was sure to meet with a very waspish reply. But in spite of all his errors Wolcott is a talented man. I have heard him read as good compositions as any other man in our class. His scholarship was quite ordinary, in declamation absolutely ridiculous. I recollect, upon a time, that he became so angry in the Philomathean Society as to leave the Hall in a rage, telling the secretary to erase his name from the roll. The cause of this rashness was as slight as his conduct was reprehensible. 
Wednesday July 22 ,1835 . Warm weather, clear sky. Lewis B. Woolton of Rockville, Md. This is one of my most intimate friends. I have known him as a good-natured, "whole-souled" Southerner these two years. My regard for him has increased from the beginning. Woolton came to College quite unprepared, having studied no Mathematics. In five or six weeks he passed an examination in Leg. Geo. and was found fit to enter the Junior Class. Since that time he has held preeminent rank as a scholar. I believe him to have a fine mind. His diffidence unfits him from becoming what he might. He distrusts his own abilities too much. I think he intends to enter the law. 
Thursday July 23, 1835. Warm day. John Van Buren of Kinderhook. This is one of that immortal trio of which I spoke in page 148. He came from Williams College about the beginning of Senior year, having fled from that institution to shake off an insupportable silly character. His notoriety, however, soon followed him; although it had been quite as unfortunate for the poor dunce if he had effectually shaken himself clear of it. Can a leopard change his skin? So soon may John cease to be a "silly Puke". With all his attempts to "raise a breeze" by his literary labors he only lays himself more open to the ridicule of men of common sense. 
Friday July 24, 1835. Awoke this morning with a load at my stomach as heavy and hard as a rock, head ached, bones ached, felt exceeding miserable. Arose with the breakfast bell, eat nothing, took a turn about the garden and went to bed again. Then I rolled and tumbled about, continued to throw off the burthen from my stomach, took a round dose of salts for dinner which gave me a thorough cleansing, groaned and tumbled upon my bed all the afternoon and went to sleep at night in nothing bettered. Oh what a wretched time I had of it! 
Saturday July 25,1835. Fine day. Arose much better than when 1retired to bed last evening. "Kind Nature's sweet restorer, balmy sleep" did her office faithfully. Uriah Marvin the would-be literary character, whom I have before spoken of in connection with Van Santvord and Van Buren, differs so little from the latter that I am inclined to think they have both been included under the same notice. Marvin perhaps is more vain than Van Buren, has a little more "gism" and a great share of foppishness. He is the College dandy. 
Sunday July 26,1835. "Man that is born of woman is of few days and full of trouble. He hasteth to mingle with the clod from whence he sprang; his spirit ascends to God who gave it." Oh how short and uncertain is the tenure of this life! how sure the visit of death! The return of the morning sun is not more so. Yet poor men! our lives give the lie to our belief. We live as though time were eternity, we talk as if death stood at the door. Such a paradox is man. 
Of the sinners that people this little planet I am the chiefest, and of all men the most unhappy. Ambition rules my mind and soul. To be great is the waking and slumbering thought, the woman of my constant desires. Whatever does not point to this one design makes me the unhappiest of mortals, covetous of time which is not spent in study. I scarcely feel easy to rest upon the Sabbath. Looking upon the tree of fame and honor, the golden fruit tempt my soul, I reach to .pluck, but oh the littleness of my stature! What shall I do? Climb the high branches and endanger my life? My answer is that of the ancient Mede: "I have two souls." The one prompts me to venture my neck. The other bids me satisfy my desires upon humbler fare. If I would love the worship [of] the great God better, sin against his law less, looking for reward of happiness in obedience and hope of glory only in heaven. If I should patiently be content to live a righteous man and a beneficent, rather than writing my poor name high upon the catalogue of celebrated men, nay could I think less of my temporal condition and more of the heavenly, darkness would flee from my mind and the-pleasant light of peace and devotion would burst in upon my chaotic soul. 
Monday July 27, 1835. Cool day. Mather of Sodus is a descendant of Old Cotton Mather. Reserved in his manners, modest and unassuming, silent among any but his friends, he carries the appearance of one knowing more than he chooses to reveal. With his intimate acquaintances he is an agreeable companion and free, a warm friend, and a choice spirit. Mather's talents are good as both his compositions and recitations signify. I have long considered him a very true representative of what I imagine his venerable progenitor was, a wise but not a showy man, of a deep, 

penetrating mind but not brilliant. 
Tuesday July 28, 1835. A storm of rain during the whole day. Benjamin Richards of White Creek This gentleman entered during the senior year and whatever may be said in general of eleventh-hour men, is one of the most sterling fellows in our class. Having good native talents, an enlightened judgement and above all patient, persevering industry, whatever he undertakes he accomplishes with singular felicity. As a botanist and mineralogist he has no equal in College; these studies he has mastered by long experiences and extensive collections. In his manners he is winning gentlemanly, of an amiable disposition and universally beloved and respected. His talents, in fact, cannot fail to command respect from the most indifferent. He is a friend of whom any one might feel proud. May I have none less worthy of my esteem. .
Wednesday July 29, 1835. Storm discontinued about noon. Blunder extraordinary. In the geographical recitation today I asked one of my boys what were the seasons in the torrid zone. "Eastern and western!" says he. (Dry and wet [hel should have said.) Dewitt Clinton Lawrence, Penn Yan, is a young man lately from Geneva Coll. without experience, common sense, or hardly any commendable virtue. He began his career in Union with cards and bad company, and ended it with folly, leaving without the regret of a single friend worthy of the name. Sickness, I think, is the immediate cause of his absence. If age does not correct the follies of his youth, and bring a fund of experience whose lessons he cannot but learn, he must make a mere cypher in community. 
Thursday July 30, 1835. Pleasant day. Whoever could have the patience to keep a College journal noting all the incidents, tricks and intrigues which fill up the web of a Collegian Life would make a book which could not fail of being interesting. Moreover, might such a performance not be useful, especially if causes were assigned and the sources of actions developed. It would be nothing less than the history of a little world of mind, a miniature community of men affected in all points like other men. I have written many anecdotes already of College characters and incidents. These I might multiply without end, but shall only mention a few others and quit the reminiscences of my "Alma Mater" forever. 
I have seen three classes graduate from Union before my own. The one in 1832 was characterized as being an uncommonly talented set of young men. No succeeding class perhaps has been fully equal to it. Nevertheless several of its member were known as very vicious young men, disdaining the mere show of virtue. It was then not a very strange occurrence to meet certain "hard cases" staggering up to their room late at night full of noise and wine. Vulgar and profane language was too often indulged in; they were careless and filthy in their dress, and scorned all etiquette. One "Bull Bernard" so-called, from Poughkeepsie, was notorious as the most profane and wicked fellow in College. He was the exact picture of a Cataline, pale and haggard in his features, his eyes black and piercing; one could not but read the villain in him. In all the political movements of College he was a cunning intriguer, stopping at no means to accomplish a favorite object. His talents, I doubt not, were of the first order although foolishly neglected or perverted. He was the author of two sarcastic poems entitled "Truth by the Invisible" and "The Last Warning". So report goes. 

Friday July 31, 1835. "Linck" Knowlton was a friend and equal of "Bull" both in his vices and virtues, having talents of no ordinary stamp, he was lazy, vicious and wicked. Occasionally he would show the power of his strong mind in extemporary debates; there it was that hardly any comtemporary could cope wlth him. Walter R. Long was another promising man not only as to talents, but virtue and piety. I have attended many a prayer meeting in his room. James Lowrie McDonald, Cramer and many others are worthy of mention. 
The class of 1833 inherited all the vices with but few of the virtues of their predecessors. Pretty much the same might be said of the succeeding class. It was always an uneasy thing from its youth up, split into hostile parties and rancorous feuds, having always some bone of contention. Between certain of its members there was the most deadly and implacable enmity, which seemed to ripen by age, and had they not seperated I will not venture to say what would have been its consequences. One prominent source of this unhappy state of things was the Parthenon" of which John J. Hyde was the Editor and Proprietor. Many from principle and more from envy were not friends of this periodical nor its Editor; on the other hand it had its warm supporters. This made a seperation of parties and an active opposltlon. A new magazine called the "Censor" was started to compete with the other; it lasted but a day and breathed its last; not however before it had accomplished its purpose of ruining the future prospects of the "Parthenon." 
August 1, 1835. James Fuller, Adam Y. Smith and their partisans supported the opposition against Hyde. Meetings were called in which the students were addressed by champions of either party. All the tricks of intrigue and arts of persuasion were put in operation to gain friends for the conflicting interests; in fact, the whole College for a space was in a state of commotion. As the fire of passion, however, died away the surface of affairs resumed its accustomed smoothness. Hyde was a man more persecuted and possessed of more enemies than any man of his class. Unfortunate as it might be so it was, yet I do not know that he deserved so much opprobrium, Sometimes imprudent he might have been, a little vain, and of few associates; nevertheless his intention was to use every man becomingly and carry himself pretty seemly. This he certainly could do. His ways were those of a polished gentleman. He wrote and spoke well, read much but studied none. Hyde was one of those geniuses who found[ed] their improvement upon novels, periodicals and other light literature of the day, which rather amuse than instruct and strengthen the intellect. In his temper he was often quick and hasty. His feelings were generous and magnanimous. His last act in College may be found in my journal for July, 1834. 

Sunday August 2, 1835. Charming day. Comfortable weather. He that drags all the concerns of the week into the Sabbath, who digests and arranges his plan for business, robs God and mars his own happiness. If his avaricious soul cannot spare one part of time for devotion and the fulfilling the purposes of his existence, selfish indeed must be that man's heart, yea blind he must be to his true interests, for who does not know that in keeping the statutes of God there is great reward? 
Monday August 3 ,1835. Fine weather. Walked to the city this afternoon for a letter from Mary Ann written on Commencement Day wherein she has collected a" mighty mess" of news respecting matters and concerns in "old Durip." The exhibition of oratory is highly spoken, especially my chum's --Bob Strong's poem on Pompei. Pollard's poem on Immortality closed the exercises. The exertion necessary for speaking was too much for him. No sooner had he closed than he fainted and was borne from the stage. This catastrophe was fortunate for his reputation. Not wishing to disparage the merits of his piece, which I presume was better poetry than any exhibited that day, for who need enquire what would be the effect upon the audience, especially among the ladies? "Poor fellow!" they would say and die with pity for him. His performance, I doubt not, profited fifty percent by this trifling circumstance."Pap~ Clute" is dead! 
Tuesday August 4, 1835. The College grocer who these many years had sold nicknacks to the students from his little shantee in Union Street. Poor old Dutchman! It was but the day before I left Schenectady that I met the old man and bid him goodbye. I then remarked to him that he looked smart and healthy and was likely to live longer now than many of the young men. With the aged, however, looks are peculiarly deceitful and even a comfortable state of health is no indication of long life. The old gentleman was sick but a day. We have sat hours in his little shop 


fo38 
together, he telling the stories of past days and I listening more to please him than myself. He knew all the people of Dorp, their fathers and relations; he could tell of the changes which time and improvement have wrought upon the old Dutch city and was pleased to trace genealogies. "Papa" was miserly in his habits, industrious and, I believe, a pious man. He was often too vain of his religion, but this I always attributed to his ignorance and the imbecility of age. 
Wednesday August 5, 1835. Fine weather. Some appearances of rain all day. A little is falling this evening. Charles C. Smith is the fourth and last Smith whom I have to record in our class. He came from Hamilton College to Union and entered some time in the Senior year, consequently I know very little about him except from distant observation. However, my opinion is pretty well established that he is rather a shoal fellow. His scholarship is surely ordinary. The looks of a man may often be some indication of what his character is. Although these should seldom be very much relied upon, Smith's personal appearance doubtless cannot be said to belie the man. For I find that he is as barren ln intellect as stupid in ph[y]siognomy. 
Thursday August 6, 1835. A storm of rain during the day. John Bigelow of Malden is a man with whom I am very little acquainted personally. His reputation, however, is very current in College where he goes as a "Calf." This aspersion is doubtless too severe but it must be remembered that College critics know no mercy. Whoever does not come up to the popular standard of exellence both in intellect and character must expect his full share of all the [o]pprobrium that harsh epithets can carry with them. Bigelow is but an indifferent student, and if his mind of a high order I have not received any direct evidence of it. His brother David entered at the same time as a University student but soon left and did not return. 
Friday August 7, 1835. Fine pleasant weather. Seneca Dean of Pleasant Valley was entered as a University student, whether or no he has since been admitted to full standing, I cannot say; probably not, for surely he has not manifested any redeeming qualities. If he holds his original station, it will be perhaps full as much as he can do with honor. Dean is one of the unknown multitude of College, whose talents or vices do not force him upon the notice of his fellows. He moves among the crowd of mediocrity unobserved, the stature of his intellect being only equal to theirs. While some who are "head and shoulders" taller than the many fix the gaze of their admiring or jealous classmates, he [is] swallowed up in the mass of similar minds [who] incur neither their respect nor fear their envy. 

In our Catalogue of '34 I find the name of J. Newton Goodhue of Newton, Mass. attached to our Class. I now recollect of such a man's being in recitations one time that year but since then have not heard anything of the fellow. He was a University Student and has probably flown where he can find rest for the sole of his foot more sure than at Union. Success to him! 
Saturday August 8, 1835 . Extremely hot weather. Two enemies never cherished more implacable hatred against each other than Hyde and Smith. Their animosity not only destroyed all the common civilities of gentlemen and the free converse of friendly intercourse, but impelled them to 
á improve every opportunity of thwarting the designs of each other and rendering their lives miserable. Their communications were abuse and mutual recriminations. Who was the aggressor I will not venture to say, for between two characters equally violent and headstrong it would be difficult to lay a charge upon either as being most likely to offend by a breach of good faith. 
Philadelphia 
Sunday August 9, 1835. Fine day. Comfortable weather. Arose at five o'clock and travelled to the city. How few men live this pleasantest part of the day; they choose rather to be in temporary death, smothered in feathers and suffocated with the bad air of closed rooms. If they, instead of the lark, were deputed to "wake the morning," it is much to be feared that light would never more dawn, night with her leaden wings would hover forever over creation. If man were the groom of Aurora, her steeds would find poor feed and little to do; perhaps they would seldom be harnessed to her car and she seldom usher in the new day in her dusky chariot. It is well that a higher power orders all things and that he for whom they were made is but to appropriate the good things of life to his enjoyment and acknowledge the bounty of the Liberal Giver. 
But to return from this episode to Mr. Gillett and his wife. They returned last evening as happy and loving as a pair of turtle doves. In fact there is reason for their excessive attachment. He is an old bachelor just entering upon thirty. ( Old men like young wives, she is 16 and so homely that the devil would not have had her. Homely girls get few sparks, therefore make much of what they do get!) This is much too severe, however. Mrs. Gillett will undoubtedly make him a good and fruitful vine. If she suits her husband, what concerns me how she appears in other's eyes? Mary A. in her letters applauds her highly. If I think her a little girlish thing, a mere toy, it matters not as long as she is perfect in his eyes. So I wish you much joy even beyond the honeymoon. Had letters from home full of news and love. 

Monday August 10, 1835. To his friends and fellows Smith was kind and gentlemanly, but an enemy found in him a troublesome opponent. He [mustered?] against his antagonists all the resources of a revengeful spirit, was steady in his purpose and dangerous in his anger. He had less talents than Hyde but was a better scholar. The latter was open and frank in his manners, the former was cunning and treacherous. Yet in the face of all the rancor which characterized the intercourse of these two men, they settled all differences a few days before leaving College and seperated with amicable feelings. The occasion was as honorable to Hyde as disreputable to Smith. 
The latter was one evening making his way to his room well "soaked" with wine but before reaching the domicil became so entirely overcome by the "creature" as to expose himself to be detected by some of the "faculty/ In this predicament Hyde, his mortal enemy, found him bawling most obstreperously before the college door, quite at ease and unconscious of his danger. He helped him to his room and persuaded him to be quiet. The next morning when the fumes of last night's inebriation were dissapated Smith, struck with the noble spirit which actuated his ancient enemy, could do nothing less than give him the hand of friendship. "Let us forget the past," says he entering Hyde's room and extending his hand. "Agreed" was the reply. 
Tuesday August 11, 1835. Lowering clouds with mist and rain. James R. Fuller was another inveterate foe of John J. Hyde. He and Smith were the priine movers of that periodical called the Censor. James was young, diminutive in size, and very imprudent, with talents of no ordinary character; with an original mode of thinking, and considerable wit, he had all the feelings and ways of a boy. His mischievous pranks upon his fellows gained him many enemies. No consideration would induce him to spoil a joke or pass an opportunity of gratifying a roguish spirit. On these accounts Fuller often made an enemy of one whom he might have retained as his friend. In fact he was a little reckless, like other youth. Experience however will correct this fault in his character. 
An example of his thoughtless roguery. Coming one night from town at a late hour he passed through a street inhabited by negroes. From one of the miserable dwellings which skirted the way James caught the sound of the squeaking violin, the shuffle of busy feet and the loud boisterous laughter of drunken revelry. It was no sooner thought than done. He seized a paving stone and inconsiderately dashed it through the window. In an instant the whole company male and female were swarming from the house cursing and threatening vengeance upon the offender. James took to his he[e]ls as his only resource and by good fortune escaped safe to his room. 

Wednesday August 12, 1835. Sky lowering with rain. One Cruikshank of the same class was Fuller's greatest butt [?] --the object of many a mad prank. He was a great cowardly dunce, possessing more vanity than common sense. His pride of personal appearance was founded in a measure upon a pair of downy whiskers which cost him much trouble in raising. Upon a day it so happened that Fuller found him napping after dinner very comfortably upon his cot, and cautiously performed the tonsorial operation upon one whisker, leaving the other unharmed. When C. knew his predicament, his anger knew no bounds. 
August 13, 1835. Rain all day. At a subsequent period he reported some stories derogatory to Fuller's character who, although he cared nothing for the man, seized the occasion to gratify his love of fun. Having prepared himself with a couple of horsemen's pistols primed only with percussion caps and stationed Belden in his closet, he one evening called C. very privately into his room, wherein he had not sooner entered than the door was bolted and the pistols drawn. Then it might have been a most laughable spectacle to now see a little puny boy blustering up to a tall son of Anak, who trembled and quaked with the sudden fear of having his brains blowed out. At this moment the fellow in the closet began to move, the very sufficient "Crook" took to [his] heels and fled to his room with the greatest precipitation. 
Friday August 14, 1835. Extremely hot. A fresh cooling shower in the afternoon. Fuller's closing act in College was perfectly characteristic. Instead of speaking the part assigned him upon Commencement Day he pronounced a powerful invective against the faculty, as remarkable for its strong style as the spirit and eloquence with which it was delivered. Laying aside the subject, his performance on that occasion eclipsed all others. 
Philadelphia Saturday August 15, 1835. Sky overcast with dark lowering cloud without any rain. Rode to the city and back. Called upon Friend Gillett and his amiable little wife. Received a liberal slice of the wedding cake, chatted half an hour and took my leave. In spite of the many fine things in Philadelphia and my favorable prejudices, I cannot forbear to own that it meets not my expectation. On this as in every other occasion wherein the unbroken imagination of youth paints the scene, a lesson may be learned, from that successful master Experience: viz. that anticipation often magnifies the objects which it contemplates. If the subject agitating the mind be a favorite one, the foreshortenings are so bad that every vice is hid in the background whilst merit is swelled into exalted dimensions in the most conspicuous part of the picture. Thus the young mind is tossed between the exaggerated images of fancy and substantial realities of experience. Age alone teaches us how false are the delusions of the one and how faithful are the lessons of the other. 

In regard to the cleanliness and regularity of the city, one can hardly be disappointed. The nose is not offended with noisome smells nor is the stranger bewildered by crooked streets and intricate ways, such as are the crying evil of many cities. But I find little of that uniformity of architecture which I had been taught to believe from report. True, here and there may be seen some fine blocks like that of Girard or Chestnut Street. These however are very seldom. Private residences and store houses, I find, are constructed after the different tastes of their proprietors; neither are they more effected by the architectural notion of a neighbor, either as to height or style, than in other places. Philadelphia as compared with New York is more quiet, does less business, and wears more the air of comfort. In the latter, people walk fast as though under a continual excitement and do everything in a hurry; in the former they saunter along leisurely as if they were well to live in the world and held the favored rank of Aristocracy. The one is a desirable residence, the other a great bazaar full of noise and bustle. 
Philadelphia has less splendor and display of wealth than New York. Its buildings are not generally so magnifcent; business is not crowded into one street, it is diffused nearly equally thrughout the town. 
Sunday August 16, 1835. Extremely hot and sultry. Heard the weak attempts of a couple of theological students to preach. Passed the remainder of the day at home but indifferently. My religion is mere pretence. However active may have been my piety at a past period, it is now only in name. 
Monday August 16, 1835. Hot and close. Another singular and notorious fellow of the class of '34 is John Skellie of Washington County. A very good representative, too, he was of that district, all the students of which are the most uncouth, awkward persons in College. Skellie prided himself upon his rusticity and coarse wit, of which he never was known to be sparing. Whenever he could find any to laugh at his rude remarks, he was ready to expose himself to be the clown of the company. He deserved no better name, none was more applicable, than "The Fool of College." But he who at first, for the novelty of his talents, was quite popular among "hoi polloi" became in time exceedingly despi[c]able. His rough jokes grew stale. He 
643 
proved to be a notorious liar and mischeif-maker. To accomplish a purpose he stuck at no expedient however dishonorable. He was even highly suspected of being a spy of the faculty and reporter of the hidden affairs in College. At the last so fierce was the enmity excited against Skellie that a strong body of students laid the plan of tarring and feathering him. 
Tuesday August 18, 1835. Alternate sunshine and showers. This daring and summary punishment was to have been performed the night before Commencement. All the materials were prepared, and their plans deeply and securely laid, but the bird flew before the time and relieved the conspirators of their bold designs. Although an arch hypocrite, he was a man of considerable talents, a good scholar, but neither orator or Writer. 
Wednesday August 19, 1835. Fine day. What a fuss! and blusteration we have in our school in preparing for the approaching exhibition upon the 26th. The Chapel must be trimmed with evergreens and decorated with festoons, the orators must be continually rehearsing, four or five are jabbering Latin and Greek whilst ten or a dozen are obliged to speak in their native tongue. Then above all the rest comes the labor of brushing up neglected studies for examination. The stoutest heart trembles at the idea of having his knowledge put to the test, his confidence fails him and there is a mighty flurry, just as the day of trial comes upon his heels, to meet it with becoming honor. 
Thursday August 20, 1835. Pleasant day. Pretty warm. Disappointment marks the fulfillment of every earthly hope. Even if our designs are accomplished, they bring not the anticipated happiness. Pain is the lot of all men and he that meets the ills of life with firmness disarms the "whips and scorns of outrageous fortune" of half its terror. Hitherto I have looked with some degree of satisfaction upon my prospects as a teacher in Haddington Institution, but the picture I must confessed has changed for the worse. 
The Board of Trustees have resigned the whole management of the concern into the-hands of the faculty, who are to receive the rent and tuition for their salaries. This procedure was found necessary considering the pecuniary embarrasment under which affairs labored. Now. making an estimate, we find that four teachers can hardly be supported, three may be and a fourth, provided he will work cheap. I being single and a newcomer must of course be the chief loser where any default is found. This I am illy prepared to hear and, should no favorable turn of things move round, shall be found wanting at the close of this session. This has become my conclusion, that I must soon make a decided, permanent stand somewhere and rise in the world gradually and by merit. If I can depend on nothing 


C4-4.
[from] others for success I will "go upon my own hooks." 
Friday August 21, 1835. In spite of all the fancied freedom and importance of manhood, I sigh for the return of my boyish days when neither the cares of life, nor ambition, nor the expectation of friends were disturbing the unruffled surface of my existence. Oh that I were in my teens and had the same mind within me that now is! I hate be called a man. My feelings are young, but my age and station will not permit them. To break the sanction of custom, however, will subject the offender to much inconvenience in all his affairs with men. One may not say his own thought or act his own feelings with impunity. But what matters when so long as I must sometime put away childish things and mind the things of a man? 
Philadelphia Saturday August 22, 1835. Quite cool. Very comfortable weather. A contented mind is a continual feast. Contentment makes up a principal ingredient in the happiness of heaven. It blesses the patient husbandman, and crowns the toil of the laborious fisherman. It dwells not so much in abundance as in the humble and middle w~lks of life. Impartial as the verdict of heaven, she dispenses her favors with an equal hand. 
Visited the Navy Yard. It is but a small concern compared with some others. Upon the stocks is the mammoth ship Pennsylvania, 140 guns, said to be the largest in the world. Whilst viewing this immense wooden castle I could not but reflect upon the depravity of mankind which made it neccessary to construct such machines of death who of himself comes before he is desired. What mines of wealth have been expended to no good purpose in the equipping of armies and manning of navies! Whereas if these ill-spent treasures had been economized they might have enlightened a world. My best wish for the Pennsylvania is that she may never visit her destined element. Let her rot where she stands or last a monument to after ages of the last trace of the great national sin of war upon our shores. 
Franklin's grave may be seen in the yard at the corner of Fifth and Race Street, his monument in the useful discoveries, wise sayings and profound writings that have emanated from his great mind. Took a peep at the Great Library which originated with him. It consists of an immense number of books filling a large building purposely erected for that object by the Philadelphia Library Association. 
Of the many benevolent Institutions with which Philadelphia abounds, the Pennsylvania Hospital is conspicuous. It was founded by one of the descendents of William Penn, a bronze statue of whom may be seen in the front yard holding in his hand a scroll containing the charter of the state. The buildings are a venerable pile shaded by a grove of tall sycamore trees and combine health and comfort with elegance. 

Dr. Nott is a self-taught man. In his youth he had little to do with the forms of schools. His mind marked out its own course and with a steady aim advanced towards the goal of greatness. It was about thirty years since he took charge of the Institution of which he now stands head. Prosperity has marked its progress. The public, feeling confidence in his wisdom, have bestowed increasing patronage. In the greatest of all studies, the study of mankind, Dr. Nott has acquired wonderful knowledge. He can read human nature as a book. Among all his contemporaries he has no equal as a cunning manager and governor. His word is law in Union. His will is only to be known to be obeyed, not servilely but cheerfully. Of all my acquaintances in College I never yet knew a student who did not love the Dr. as a father. 
Sunday August 23, 1835. For the last two days, we have had cool nights and mornings but charming weather after the sun had arisen and softened the chilly air. Heard one sermon from a Mr. Gretchin, theological student. A very promising young man, I think, none more so in the Institution. Tomorrow our examination commences; [I] think not so much of that as the pleasure of seeing my friends after a short space. They are few but dear. Oh if earthly love is so perfect what will be that of heaven! My mind has been a blank today, my affections estranged from God, my love cold, my service heartless. The hours have flown on leaden wings, bringing neither joy nor a ray of comfort. 
Monday August 24, 1835. Beautiful day, splendid weather. Cool nights, comfortable days. Examined the boys in part. The little dunces did decently. Who ever read Junius without being astonished at the power of language clothing the efforts of a mighty mind? To a strong nervous style and purity of diction he adds a keenness of satire that cuts clean through the most formidable armor. His sarcasm is like a powerful convex lens, it burns up everything which is within its focus. His mind penetrated to the lowest depth of thought and countermined the works of all his opponents. He was mighty in-argument and unequalled in elegance of style. Whatever may have been the purpose of Junius' masterly letters, they certainly will remain so long as English is spoken an imperishable monument of elegant composition and burning sarcasm. 
Tuesday August 25, 1835. Today closed the grand farce of examination. What were the feelings of the audience I cannot say. Perhaps they were pleased with the performance. I was far otherwise affected. Our whole two days' exhibition of attainments has been but a mere sham by which the people have been made but a wrong estimate of the comparative progress of different students. I have hardly known a more deceptive affair. 

Wednesday August 26, 1835. This was appointed our day of exhibition in elocution, to be held in the grove near the Academy provided weather was favorable. The day turned out exceedingly unfortunate for us, being neither entirely fair nor foul. The Trustees were held in suspense till near three o'clock. It had then ceased raining, the people began to assemble, the music arrived, and finally the speakers mounted the rostrum. The small number who had assembled despite of the weather were evidently well pleased. They certainly had no reason to find fault if labor and pains could secure their approbation. The orators had .spent much time upon their pieces and I believe did themselves honor. 
Thursday August 27, 1835. Verv warm day. Spent the whole day in nothing better than chit-chat with company, accompanying strangers around the farm and gardens and gallanting the ladies. So the world spend their time, like beasts that perish. Day after day they trudge along without doing one rational act. The great aim of their existence is to live easy as if constituting the only clue to happiness. Poor foolish human nature! How little dost thou profit by the experience of age or the precepts of wisdom. 
Philadelphia 
Friday August 28, 1835. My services at Haddington are closed for the present. What may be the future arrangements of the Trustees I cannot say, but probably they will be such as to require my services. Packed up my clothes and took coach for the city. Visited the site of Girard College about three miles from the Exchange. This splendid Institution was endowed with a capital of two millions of dollars by its founder for the purpose of erecting buildings and supporting Professorships. If this princely bequest does not suffice the perfection of the plan, his will provides still more. The estimated cost of buildings is a million and although they have been commenced nearly two years they are not expected to be finished under five more. The principal edifice is a Corinthian temple surrounded by thirty-four columns six feet in diameter and fifty-four high. The building material is white marble. If wealth and art can render him immortal surely Girard has raised an imperishable monument to his name. 
Saturday August 29, 1835. Fine weather. Attended the General Convention of the Episcopal Church now sitting in St. Peter's. This is a large assembly of talent and respectability. Visited Peale's Museum. This is reckoned the best in our country. What forms the chief object of curiosity is the skeleton of the gigantic Mastodon, obtained by the founder of the Institution from the western part of New York. The department of natural history is most perfect, especially that of Mineralogy. The whole arrangement exhibits great taste and a very correct judgment. 

Sunday August 30, 1835. Splendid weather. Attended St. Paul's Church in Third Street. The sermon was surely a "milk-and-water" thing. It seemed rather to be a display of language than the pure gospel of Christ flowing from a warm heart. The speaker was a stranger, probably one of the Convention of Episcopal clergymen. The best advice I would give such a man would be to feel more and affect less. He would then preach at his congregation as sinners, and not console them by the endearing title of brethren. In the afternoon heard one Chambers in Broad Street, a very correct likeness of Mr. Kirk both in person and manner of preaching. I should take him to be a man of less talents however. The peculiarity of some of his notions has caused a separation between him and the Presbyterian Church and led to the formation of the present society over which he is pastor, under the name of the Congregational Church. His faults as a speaker are many, nevertheless it cannot be disputed that his piety and talents are of a high character. 
Monday August 31, 1835. Heaven deliver me from "the Board's" delay! They have now met times without number to deliberate upon the affairs of the Institution and have usually dispersed telling this story "No Quorum," "could'nt agree," or "referred to a committee." They have kept me in suspense these four days, waiting for my salary, and last of all adjourned leaving me without any appropriation --a poor penniless pedagogue. Through the favor of friend Gillett, however, Jonathan will set face towards 
N. Y. tomorrow. Oh what an eternal bore this poverty is. It harasses the life of a man without end; it vexes his soul to death and makes him a slave to "outrageous fortune." One had better wait the progress of the snail than for the favours of the rich. 
New York Tuesday Septemberl, 1835. Mr. and Mrs. Daggs and two daughters were my company this morning to New York. Dogs take such a cart load of ladies and band boxes, all under one's care! I had rather have a pedlar's pack upon my shoulders than have one of the feminine gender for a travelling companion! You must sacrifice all your own ease and convenience to her. To such a selfish animal as myself, the company of ladies always required too much of my attention; for that reason I never courted it. My own single self was ever quite as much as I could manage comfortably. What in the name of common sense does a man want of a wife hanging to his skirts through this world? And yet he must have one or else be continually committing the devilish sin of adultery in his heart. To make lawful then a 

filthy crime, he must forever unite himself to woman. 
Sailed into New York harbor about six in the afternoon. What a scene of glory is laid out before the spectator! The panorama is perfect. Before is the city, sitting upon the sea like a majestic queen into whom is brought all the riches of the world. The broad bay is filled with lofty ships! The adjacent shores are fringed with magnificent villas and country seats, and from the rear rises woodland and field loaded with the golden harvest and green foliage. Who can contemplate such splendor and not weep for the degeneracy of man in misusing such benefits? Who that is inexperienced in life could imagine such a garden of pleasure to be filled with thorns and briars, and the beautiful city to be a den of thieves --a sink of iniquity? 
Wednesday September 2, 1835. Left New York at six o'clock. I was passing along the Park last evening and looking at the crowds that glided along the streets when my attention was drawn by the flood of light that poured from Park Theatre. The ample doors were crowded with people, and soft music floated upon the evening air. Curiosity urged, and I entered the broad gateway to Hell! The gildings and decorations of the interior are superb, the painted scenery seems the very work of nature lighted with a 
brilliancy that rivals the sun in splendor. Add to these attractions the power of a great orchestra and who can wonder that the theatre is the headquarters of the children of pleasure. The acting throughout, with one exception, was a gross and disgusting violation of nature. It was characterized by a pompous and inflated delivery, a stiffness in movement and a gesticulation at once studied and mechanical. To me the whole play seemed rather a burlesque than a representation of real life, and the actors mere puppets who were made to play their parts by the mere power of mechanical skill. Hackett, however, is excepted. His performance as Col Wildfire is most natural and amusing. He has a very just conception of the Kentucky characters and brings forth all his peculiarities with great truth. 
But the play was an object of small account with me. It was other acting that I had the curiosity to witness --a little theatre within the theatre. The "Punch Room" is a stage upon which many perform their parts. Here may be seen an exhibition [of] real life; human nature in its vilest passions and most revolting character is portrayed to the eye of the spectators. I had heard of the scenes of this horrid place but never till last evening saw the reality. I had read McDowal's Journal and wondered at the philanthropy of that good man who could endure the scorn of men for the sake of raising the wretched victims of vice to a life of virtue and religion, but when I came and saw the ruin of innocence and the wrecks of virtue my wonder was that instead of one there were not a thousand McDowals. Let those who are skeptical go the the Punch Room and behold how low man can lower himself by wicked indulgence. 

A sail upon the Hudson is always new and pleasant. In many parts indeed it is dull, but take it all in all a greater diversity of elegant scenery can hardly be found in the country. 
Schenectady Thursday September 3, 1835. "What's this dull town to me?" My old friends are gone, the halls of Union are shut, and I must bear the heavy burthen of time as conveniently as possible. Oh, what an uneasy little animal is man! Novelty and change are the spice of his life, he knows no quiet; even sleep, the great semblance of death, is disturbed by dreams and man's soul wakes into a new state of active being. 
Friday September 4, 1835. I am tired of my egotism -I am sick of self. A contemplation of my own character is most humiliating exercise. It teaches me that my desires are vast, that my ambition is unbounded and besides all that I have neither the talents nor industry to be a great man. Oh! It pains me, it exceedingly humbles me to review my own career and compare my attainments with my advantage~. From childhood a pupil, and now an ignoramus! Yes! I know nothing! actually nothing. What I forget is now more than I learn. 
Saturday September 5, 1835. "There's no place like home." Its endear.ments are independent of external circumstances of place or time. The Greenlander enjoying his long nights of revelry or the naked Negro panting at the line esteems his own blest spot the most favored on the globe. He covets not the storied happiness of civilized man, the exellence of their cultivated lands or the boasted privilege of enlightened Society. The brightest spot that his mind can conceive of is his own. The happiest abode his home, the dearest society that of his dear ones. Is not this a wise disposition of Providence that man may be content with his lot? 
Sunday September 6, 1835. Attended Church and heard Prof. Yates. An admirable sermon he gave us, too --full of thought and piety. It is a real treat, after listening to the mere rant of some ignorant declaimers, to enjoy the well-arranged discourses of a pious learned man. Upon my word, a straw man is better than an imprudent minister; the one will surely do no harm, the other --who can estimate it? My religion is but in name. I am a lifeless branch which the first winds of heaven may hurl to the ground. Oh what a hypocrite! 
Monday September 7, 1835. Mother and I took passage in the railroad coaches this evening for Albany, intending to visit our friend in New 

Hampshire. Saw my quondam chum Strong with whom I had a long and friendly chat. How pleasant is the converse of friends! It sweetens the bitter of life and makes its various ills tolerable. An interchange of feelings lightens the heart and brightens the countenance. It is more worth than the commerce of India. 
Tuesday September 8, 1835. This morning at twelve o'clock the coachman drove me from my paradise of dreams. and packed us away in his cumbrous stage coach. The air was piercing cold and clear of a single cloud. All that could serve to releive the tedium of our ride was the beautiful sky studded with brilliant lights and the glorious full moon riding midway in the heavens. As our heavy vehicle rolled through the deserted streets,,, disturbing the stillness of the night, I could not but be struck with the dismal solitude of a great city at midnight. The thronged streets are lonely, the hum of business is hushed, and the splendid places are but dimly lighted with the fading street lamp. Nature in her depth of woods and dark caverns gives us splendid examples of deep solitude, yet in consistence with all her works she enlivens these with beings of her own creation. The beast or bird inhabits every corner of her dominions, and the cataract or the babbling brook relieves the loneliness of many a gloomy solitude. Their music is eternal. But to behold the habitation of man and the dominion of art hushed in the stillness of death is a thing which appears unnatural to us. We have not been accustomed to see such an anomaly; for this reason the solitude of a deserted city is the loneliness of desolation. 
In my short experience I have come to this conclusion, that he who travels must generally be a hog if he wishes to appropriate any of the few conveniences of travelling to himself. If he sits at a public table, he must snatch his victuals and elbow his neighbor. The principle upon which a majority of travellers act is to "keep what they have and catch what they can," consequently he that uses any degree of politeness only throws away his good intentions upon those who will neither appreciate or return them. Rode to Sand Lake eleven miles from Troy on the driver's box. The air was piercing cold. Arrived at the Stage house, all were a-bed. It was then broad daylight. Waited -a.couple of hours for a mean, half-cooked breakfast. In the mean time stood shivering in the dirty bar room, half smothered with the stinking rum fumes. 
During the day we have passed through an Alpine country. Our road has not only been uneven but crooked to the last degree. We have passed over barren mountains and through most delightful valleys. The eye has not been wearied with seeing, for every variety of scenery has been presented to our prospects --the wildness of mountain grandeur and the beauty of green valleys beneath, sprinkled with pretty farm houses and villages. The valley of the Housic[k] is particularly romantic. But what pleasure could we take? During the whole day, from twelve to fifteen were 

crowded áupon one coach. Add the danger of travelling with such a load 
over an uneven road, to say nothing of the tardiness of our progress, and 
one cannot but suppose that our journey was made unpleasant. At the 
close of the day we passed several pretty villages by moonlight and 
arrived at Greenfield about midnight. Here we expected a few hours 
snooze, but ill luck befell us. There was neither "sleep for our eyes or slum 
ber for our eyelids." Before one o'clock. .. 
Wednesday September 9, 1835 .... Coachie was dragging us off again at a most provoking rate over a villainous rough road that completely drove even a stage-coach doze from us. Oh! Oh! The misery of sleepless eyes when coveted slumbers are driven from them. Only think of riding forty-eight hours without one hour's rest or a wink of sleep save what can be snatched in a coach. My misery was still more augmented by anxiety for mother's health, which was illy prepared to sustain so great fatigue. Saw many neat Yankee villages. (Dined at Fitchburg and arrived at Lowell early in the evening. A glorious snooze I'll have tonight, so good bye.) 
Thursday September 10,1835. Lowell may justly be called the Manchester of America. Its rapidity of growth is almost unprecedented. The railroad which has just now been finished between Boston and this place still more increases the business and importance of the town and, should it be continued as is anticipated to Concord, still greater advantages may be hoped for Lowell. Started in a coach laden with sixteen passengers and a cart load of baggage. Went up the east side of the river along the "Mammoth Road" which I found no larger than other roads. In the afternoon went from Pembroke village to Allenstown and found our friend well. 
Friday September 11, 1835. Now commences the tedium of a long visit. Yes, as soon as the first day. This is confounded mean business --a waste of time, a cursed sin--to spend five weeks for mere nothing but to bore others whilst we bore ourselves. 
Allenstown Saturday September 12, 1835. Here I sit like a simpleton all day cooped up in the house killing time in the most miserable way possible. I am ashamed to own it, but so is the truth. I ought to be more usefully employed. If we reckon up all our [time] that is usefully employed, how little shall we find turned to any good account. 
Sunday September 13, 1835. Heard a poor, ignorant ranter at the "town 

house." Was more interested in a "blast" which he gave a trifling young 
fellow, than anything that he preached besides. Dull day. 
Concord Monday September 14,1835. At three o'clock heard the sentence of Prescott, the murderer of Mrs. Cochran. A more aggravated case has seldom come before the court. The criminal is only eighteen. That one so young and inexperienced in the way of the world should so coldly and maliciously take the life of his kindest benefactor is a thing almost unheard of in the records of crime. In the absence of Judge Parker, his sentence was pronounced by M. G. Upham Esqr. of Concord. The court was crowded with anxious spectators. 
The Capital is undergoing quite an advantageous change, both in size and appearance. Numerous streets and building lots have lately been run out on the rear of the town which offer peculiar inducements to those who wish to avail themselves of pleasant site residences. The rage for land speculation in the village of "Rumford" is quite unprecedented, owing chiefly doubtless to the anticipated railroad. 
Pittsfield Tuesday Septemberl5,1835. Got under way "bright and early" for Uncle Crane's, in an old crazy vehicle drawn by a Rosinante followed by a colt. Crawled along at the rate of three miles an hour and dined in Epsom. Old Chichester is the same. Its changes have been few. I may say quite as much of Pittsfield and nothing more. 
Wednesday September 16, 1835. After a kind of rushing visit for two days, during which time we have made numerous calls upon our old acquaintances, old "Darby" has drawn us safe back to Allenstown. What a kind soul my Aunt Salter is! If it were possible she would pluck out her eyes for her friends. 
Thursday September 17,1835. Did just nothing at all. Toasted my shins, and yawned away the whole day. It is wicked to make such unconscionable long visits and waste life among such trifles, but country friends --good, simple-hearted souls --think the worth of a visit lies in its length and that the height of politeness and good usage consists in a display of plenty. Their tables groan under a profusion of dainties and substantial solids which they imagine is a mark of breeding to urge upon you until surfeit follows sufficiency. 
Friday September 18, 1835. Uncle and Aunt Smart from Somersworth visit us today. Two clever liberal souls they. They have a little boy some six or 

eight weeks old. He is the idol of their hearts. Horace and Elmira died above a year ago. 
Allenstown Saturday September 19, 1835. Today Uncle and Aunt Crane visited us. Here then I have a dozen uncles and aunts. What a conglomeration of relatives, by marriage and blood! Used much persuasion [of] Smart and Crane to get them started for the Western Country. Hard to move. 
Sunday September 20, 1835. Sat in the chimney corner this live-long day as unhappy as one could well be. No meetings, no sermons, no "church-going bell," and what is life! Surely but a wretched existence, on which the sunshine of happiness can never fall, and the smiles of contentment never dwell. It were better for a man not to know the pleasures of sanctuary worship than, after having tasted the sweet communion of Saints, to be ever deprived of them. Barren would be such a heart, dejection would brood there and darken every Sabbath-day joy. Remembrance of past pleasures not to recur brings as bitter a pang as ever wrung the heart. 
Concord Monday September 21, 1835. If the meeting of friends is pleasant, what must the parting be? It is like tearing limb from limb. To give the parting salutation to my good old Grandparents this afternoon and see the tears trickle down their furrowed cheeks, to hear the parting benediction of those aged pilgrims whose heads are whitened with the frosts of four-score winters and to witness the warmth of their affection now when age has frozen every other faculty_.: this is a chapter in my life which memory will never permit to be erased. I feel as though between them and me was the bourne of eternity, as though the grave had already opened to receive whatever of them is earthy and this farewell the last in time. It may not be so ( and Heaven grant I may again see their venerable forms) but all the chances of probabHity are against such an event. This evening Uncle Salter gave me a deed of his farm in Allenstown. Rained fiercely. Weather apparently is propitious for our journey west. 
Tuesday September 22,1835. "Old Sled Hutchin's" house in Concord is one of the best taverns that a traveller ever stepped foot into. I do not know that any deserves exception. 
Clear cool morning. Frosty. On board the Albany stagecoach. Inside a Mr. Cushman, dubbed General, who knew Dr. Nott years "Lang Syne" when he taught [at] Plainfield Academy in Connecticut. Told numerous anecdotes of the President among the following. "The Doctor was an "odd fish" then -.slovenly in his dress and awkward in his manners. We never thought he would become Dr. Nott of Union College. He wore breeches and black hose. And it so happened that time or some other unlucky agent had made a sad rent in [one?] long stocking so that his leg could be seen to the size of a half-dollar However, to mend the matter as easily as possible, the Doctor took a piece of charcoal and very deliberately blacked his leg. I told him this the other day upon the stream. He said he did not recollect the circumstance although he had no reason to doubt it, for it was just like 

him." .He that travels goes fretting from A to Z all along the road. Grievances tolerable and intolerable. Public servants who are better than their employers. Agents and coach drivers too proud to accomadate. Inn keepers, waiters and bartenders all better [than] their guests --ergo, you must wait upon yourself and pay for it. Setting aside the "insolence of office," old crazy carriages, dirty, narrow and insufferable to eye or nose. Spavin, ringbone, and windbroken cattle --the ruins of horses ready to fall to pieces. Crawling along slowly by day and making long stops, thereby prolong[ing] the daily stage through the night. Cold dinners and high prices. Bos[s]y companions and women with childref1:. Here I stop the list, it being ten o'clock. Chester, Vermont. I post to bed to snatch a fragment [of] rest for tomorrow's fatigue. 
P.S. Charlestown on the Connecticut is a splendid little village built along one street, which presents one of the highest and most enchanting sights I have ever seen. Beautiful white.mansions, ample courts, venerable elms; in the rear, extensive flats through which the Connecticut flows, or sleeps between his banks--are not these sufficient to mingle a scene of beauty? 
Wednesday September 23, 1835. This has been a day of vexations. From three A. M. till ten o'clock P. M. journeying 80 miles! I venture to say I ' could have trotted a cow team farther. But the scenery --passing over the Green mountains, along the valleys --that was glorious, enchanting. What an elegant thing it is to journey in a mountainous district! The mind becomes enlarged to [the] proportion of Nature's works and feels the delirium of pleasure, the intoxication of wonder. Nature is now dressed in her most gorgeous attire. On the mountain-top waves the evergreen cedar whilst its sides are enriched with variegated colors rivalling in splendor the vivid tints of the rainbow. A few frosts of autumn have changed the verdant foliage of summer into every tint between the bright red and the pale yellow; they have cropped the remnants of floral beauty and, like the wasting consumption, made the face of nature still more lovely by decay. That is a mournful pleasure surely which is bought at the expense of the object thus. We feel it so in autumn, the most glorious season of the year, because we know that all the gorgeous magnificence of decaying 

vegetation is but momentary, and the sad precurser of cold and dreary 
sterility. 
The valley of the Baton Kill is a most lovely spot. Hemmed in by lofty mountains, enjoying the luxuries of a grateful soil and shielded from the fierce winds of heaven, what can hinder the inhabitants of this romantic region from enjoying the blessings of life! If contentment has a "local habitation" on earth without the mind, I see no reason why she may not sojourn in the beautiful valleys of New England, encircled by the quiet of her everlasting hills. The two principal villages on this pretty stream are Manchester and Arlington. Leaving the latter we rode through one of nature's wildest scenes. The narrow carriage track has been excavated for miles on the precipitous side of the mountain or built up from the rock shores of the river at great expense of time and labor. 
Schenectady Thursday September 24, 1835. Arrived in "Dorp von Schaghnactada" soon enough to breakfast. The good Dutch city preserves well its ancient character for want of change, and were it not for a few enterprising spirits from New England would be ten times more insupportably dull than the sleepy energies of the fumigating "Vons" have already rendered it. Five years past has brightened the face of things more than the preceding fifty; and if external circumstances continue [to?] urge, Dorp may yet come forth in a new dress and her moral atmosphere be as clear of the clouds of ignorance as her physical of the fumes of tobacco. 
Friday September 25,1835. The classic halls of "Union" are still crowded as of old with the votaries of science, but their visages are strange. I recognize everything as an old acquaintance, but where are they without whom, although the scenes of my Alma Mater are dear, it is but mournful pleasure to visit her pleasant groves and favored halls. Intimacies formed upon slight acquaintance may be broken with comparative ease, but the friends whom we have known and tried by the test of years, who have been our rivals-in the honorable competition of literary fame and attainments and with us chased "away dull care" by innocent sports in the intervals of relaxation, cannot be forgotten, nor remembered without feelings of peculiar pleasure. 
The essence of this life is hope, not happiness; therefore it was that while I strove with my fellows to excel in learning and remembered all the little vexations of a student's life, the future prospect of walking forth into the world of man, marking out my own course and acquiring a reputation, gave me the most pleasing assurances of success. But oh! the world is vanity too! As I viewed it from a distance, all its asperities were softened 

down, but nearer I see all its hideous deformities. Let not the youth sigh 
for manhood which of itself will come full soon disappointments.  with all its  
Union College Saturday September  26, 1835. "What's this  dull  place  to  me"? My old  

friends are not here. I linger about and fondly dwell [on] the past; the past is sweet, the present is bitter. 
Sunday September 27, 1835. Our little friend Graves, the Baptist dominie, is decidedly unpopular both with church and congregation. He is a man of some talent, great vanity and no judgement. The Lord's heritage is in poor hands and, were not the cause His own, undoubtedly it would utterly fail of success. Even the good old fathers who are cautious in deliberation and wise in experience about matters of the church now mourn the necessity which obliges them to think and speak unfavorably of their Pastor. Lord! still the raging storms of passion and strife which may burst forth from this small matter~ 
Monday September 28, 1835. Who would have dreamt it! "Old Joslin" is married --Joslin of our class --to a Miss Thompson of the notable city of "Dorp." Success to them! May their honeymoon last through life --and the connubial yoke be easy to them. The way is now opened for our class; follow suite if you dare, the precedent is honorable, worthy of imitation and much to desired. Oh heavens must we all take "Ribs"! 
Schenectady Tuesday September 29, 1835. Arose at four o'clock and stood above an hour squinting through Dr. Joslin's telescope for the much feared and long-talked of comet. Could not find the celestial wanderer but had a splendid view of Jupiter and his four moons --they were all upon a line with him. Trudged off home cold and "cross"; may his tail be pulled off before I ever expose myself so much again for the comet. Fine day. 
Wednesday September 30, 1835. Making busy preparations for departure. Mary Ann goes with me to Philadelphia, accompanied by Mr. Enos Myers and wife from Geora. On many accounts I am glad to return and get settled down once more. My whole vacation seems to be lost, since what has been gained in matter of relaxation and travelling is quite disproportionate to my real wants, and valueless when compared with this vast expense of time. I am anxious to renew my studies and redeem what I have squandered in useless expenditure. Patient and persevering action may accomplish much. 
Thursday October 1, 1835. My chum Bob Strong of Albany made us a visit today. It brought pleasant recollections to see so old and dear a friend, to talk of past joys and future good fortune, and mutually sympathize for each other's woes. Alas! how little we know of the world and its usages. Hope flatters only to deceive. In Albany this evening. Rainy. 
Friday October 2,1835. On board the "Westchester." A glorious morning. Enjoyed as usual a sail down the magnificent Hudson. Its sloping shores are now splendidly variegated by the autumnal frosts. A steamboat voyage is a very instructing one, even independent of the scenery. It is a little floating journey performed by various individuals of different habits and temperaments. Many incidents happen well worth our observation; there is a great display of human passions in the midst of which a discerning man may learn most useful lessons. Such a journey is a miniature of life most admirably drawn but seldom attentively considered. 
Philadelphia Saturday October 3, 1835. Fine clear morning. Arrived in N. Y. last evening, near nine o'clock and forthwith sallied forth in search of my old friend James Fuller, and after much bewilderment and many circumbendibuses, found him snugly cooped in a law shop. Took several angular and rectilinear perambulations with him about this wicked city and retired to my lodgings. N. B. Agreed to hold monthly correspondence with him. 
It must be confessed that altho' the amount of travel has increased on North River greatly within few years, the comfort and conveniences of travelling have hardly kept pace with the augmentation of numbers. The boats are often crowded and show a great want of cleanliness. The meals are often poor, the beds filthy, and the servants lazy and unaccomadating. The Philadelphia boats, I think, are the best in point of cleanliness and comfort that I have ever traveled on. At two o'clock found myself by a warm coal grate in the good city. Friends well &c &c. 
Sunday October 4, 1835. Heard Mr. Hill of Troy preach this afternoon in the Samson Street Church. His sermon was all well enough, but rather an abortion, I should think, considering his efforts to produce a fine thing. Whether the man has a grain of affectation about him I know not, but this must be confessed, that if he has not, his actions belie him. Howbeit, let him pass with all his imperfections. He has many. 
Haddington Monday October 5, 1835. Glorious weather. Find Mr. Dagg's family well, and all things continuing the same. A few rogues are returning to the "Mansion House," surfeited with the play and pleasures of a long vacation, 

but the greater part will come unwillingly. 
Tuesday October 6, 1835. Met at the schoolroom for the purpose of classifying the boys. Found matters in the most riotous confusion-.benches and chairs in odd positions; books, maps and dirt strowed upon the floor; windows and door open; stove demolished and funnel bent. The whole appearance of things betokened the mad prank of some mischievous boys. Chattering teeth and damp walls told well for colds and churchyard coughs. Adjourned for dinner. 
Wednesday October 7,1835. Went to [the city] this afternoon for money, not having received a cent from the Trustees of the Institution for last summer's services. Saw the Treasurer. He looked blue when I spoke of pay, cannot do anything for me till the Board meets. Was I not vexed? Surely one may have reason to be when he is subjected to such trying delays. 
Thursday October 8, 1835. I not only complain of want of money but of the neglect of the Trustees in not so much as expressing whether they wish my services or not. Must I wait the decision of this matter as I have for a little money? I hope I possess spirit enough not to be dallied with in such manner. Last evening went to Mr. Collaris to board. 
Friday October 9, 1835. Who says, "Order is heaven's first law"? Pope, I think, but no matter whose sentiment it is, so long as it be true. If the abode and the employment of the blessed be regulated by a system which doubtless is essential to the happiness of that high estate, still more reasonable is it that the conduct of man should [be] guided by some fixed rules of action. Without such help little will be accomplished and nothing done well, for substracting from an individual's short life the demands of nature, the tax of social intercourse, and the loss of time by indolence and indisposition, finally what will remain of time but shreds and patches which need the skill and industry of a miser to turn to any account. 
Saturday October 10, 1835. What a naturally indolent and ordinary mind can be brought to by patient toils and struggles! I am resolved to arrive at distrusting even my most deliberate determinations and [at] foregoing all the anticipated pleasures of ambition. I hope that the resolve which now stands recorded may be most happily adhered to from a high sense of duty and with full dependence upon the Great Maker and Mover of minds. "Gather up the fragments that there be nothing lost." Oh most precious time, how miserably squandered. 

Sunday October 11, 1835. The Christian need fear nothing so much as his own corrupt affections. All hell and the devil cannot open his heart to sin if the garrison within only be true and all the outposts be vigilantly guarded. Here we fail. The enemy insidiously creeps upon our weakest parts and covers his designs with the garb of safety which he throws off only when his most desperate hopes are accomplished in the thraldom of man to his wicked purposes. ***** A labor which transcends all human efforts is that of knowing our own hearts. We talk of our inbred sins, not considering their heinous nature and not turning the slightest glance of vision inward to discover the hidden recesses of iniquity which dwell deep within the bosom of man. We whine over our failings and talk piously but where are our corresponding efforts? 
Monday October 12, 1835. History teaches us by example the arts of war and government, the rules of policy, the maxims of society and the regulation of conduct in every period and condition of life. 
Tuesday October 13, 1835. Pedantry is like the cockneyism of society. It finds its origin in literary vanity .among minds of a low order and stunted growth and, although it exalts the possessor in his own esteem, merits from others rather contempt than commiseration. I know a man who has had the repute of being learned among the vulgar these ten years. He has acquired such a character by palming off his second-hand knowledge and imposing upon the ignorance of those who are foolish enough to listen. Like children who gather bits of china to bedeck their mock baby-house, he collects fragments of literature and such odds and ends of information as fall from the lips of wise men, only to set out his own naked mind and retail to the first individual whom he has the fortune to deceive. 
Wednesday October 14, 1835. Delightful weather. Never enjoyed so lovely an autumn --so mild, so soft and so abundant in goodly fruits. Nature is full of pleasure and scatters abroad with a liberal hand; happy the man who has a taste to relish her favors and a heart susceptible of grateful acknowledgments. If any act bespeaks the depravity of erring man and the viciousness of his nature, it is that he surfeits his soul with the pleasures of life and never raises an eye to the hand that bestows. 
Thursday October 15, 1835. The injury which is felt by the student who dabbles in many studies is greater than at first he is aware of. To be continually changing from one book to another has certainly the advantage of novelty without any good prospect of advancement In real attainments. I know young men in our school who pretend to prepare for from five to twelve different recitations. What is the consequence? Why, they [learn?] nothing as they should. Nevertheless it does no good to advise such mighty comprehensive minds, since they fancy that the scholar is not indicated by slow and patient application but by the number of tomes which he carries under his arm and the technical words which he can drag into conversation. They imagine to take science by storm. 

Friday October 16, 1835. The task of a pedagogue is a cheerless round of vexatious duties. He has to conquer the waywardness of youth, to correct errors in education, to urge unwilling minds and, where intellect is wanting, to supply the defect. The Patience of a schoolmaster should equal his Poverty. It is an article in his composition which, being absent, no happy combination of other virtues can atone for. Whether he employ the rod, the correction will be without prudence; or the more manly appeals of reason, his advice will be tempered with fretfulness; he loses his own self-respect and of consequence the regard of his pupils. At best it is but harassing to the mind, but doubly so when by unhappy circumstance we lose the bias of a calm and well-regulated disposition. 
Saturday October 17,1835. The communion of equal minds like the attrition of rods kindles a flame which by the mere solitary effort of a single intellect of a somewhat higher order might never have been raised. By intercourse men are polished, knowledge is equalized, thought is elicited and the afflictions of life rendered still more tolerable. In my own case I feel the weighty advantages which I have left in college which, although the attainments even of its most talented members fall far below the standard to which we should aim, is nevertheless a community as profitable to the thirsting mind as any that can be mentioned. I have acquired in college what volumes could never have offered, and of all my privations this I account chief. 
Sunday October 18, 1835. What advances in holiness? Nearer eternity, but am I nigher heaven? Poor mortal ! what would cheer my dark soul, were there no hope of Grace in heaven? And yet pardon comes not without repentance, nor repentance except we turn from our sins. 
Monday October 19, 1835. I often talk of the abuse and expense of time; my own mistakes on this subject are so frequent and so unpardonable that it would be the greatest wonder in the world if I did not deplore them. 
Tuesday October 20, 1835. This Haddington is undoubtedly a healthy spot. It is built upon a hill considerably elevated above the surrounding country and affords a prospect of the Delaware, Philadelphia and the fine champain intervening. A few things in the "Key State" at first appear odd to the New Englander, viz. their large freight wagons and clumsy tackle, the covered market cart driven by women, their stone houses and wooden fences, and finally that queer gibberish which they call German. 
Wednesday October 21,1835. A disciplined and well-regulated mind which, independent of favorable circumstances, can be brought to bear upon any subject and act powerfully at the will of its possessor is an instrument more powerful in its might than all the machinery of art or the engines of warfare. 
Thursday October 22, 1835. "Restless mortals toil for naught," so some poet has it --and with much truth it must be confessed. From budding youth to ripe old age he is unstable in all his ways, his designs are only made to be succeeded by others more novel and more promising in their appearance, and what he purposes today is laid aside for the plans of tomorrow. What can be the final cause of man's discontent with earthly good, except that he should seek some durable and more lasting riches? 
Friday October 23, 1835. If one would cultivate a full flowing and majestic style, let him read the rich sentences of Johnson. I admit that they are sometimes stiff and measured but in general nothing can exceed the richness of his language, the purity of his sentiments and the melody of his cadences. Johnson needed not the flourish of words or the delicacy of sentiment to assure the attention of the reader; his fort[ laid in noble, magnanimous thoughts and godlike diction, such as the most listless cannot peruse without interest. 
Philadelphia Saturday October 24, 1835. My sister visited the city today where she intends to spend a week among her newly acquired friends. I must in justice acknowledge that to the extent of my experience the Philadelphians are a hospitable and friendly people. In the short space of my sojourn with them I never experienced more kind treatment or more warm professions of attachment. 
Sunday October 25, 1835. Mr. Gillett has surely improved much since [he] has preached in the city, but still his best performances are light and fanciful. He spreads wide his pinions and skims over sea and land, neither diving to the profound, nor soaring to the sublime. He pleases but not astounds by the power of his eloquence, and entices but not bears away. 

Haddenfield Monday October 26, 1835. Received a letter from "Josh Phelps" of Union College. It came like water to the thirsty lamb, for I yet have an interest in all that transpires at Schenectady. "Josh" is one of those choice spirits which we have left in Union to keep good a succession of noble and talented young men. 
Tuesday October 27, 1835. Oh! I had nearly forgotten to mention the appearance of the comet which for many evenings I have been watching in the west. He is in size about as large as a star of the first magnitude, rather nebulous, and at times a pretty fiery tail. Some rumor that the fine succession of pleasant days is in consequence of his near approach to the earth, but I am very unbelieving on that point. 
Wednesday October 28, 1835. A talkative "ignoramus" is worse than the itch; he both squanders his own hours and breaks in upon the economy of yours. 

Thursday October 29, 1835. Rise at five and retire at ten o'clock, leaving seven hours intermediate for sleep. Enough in all conscience. Study Analytic Geometry and Bourdon's Algebra. Read Rollins Ancient History and Johnson's Rambler. Translate daily a little in Terence's Comedies and Anacreon's Odes. Moreover compose, exercise, teach &c. 
Friday October 30, 1835. The errors of a student are abundant --not merely sloth and misapplication but, what is equally prejudicial to his interests, a habit of careless thinking. The mind is an instrument of nice adjustment but immense power. It can mount upon the wings of imagination, or explore the depths of Philosophy; nay, what profit is not feasible when brought within its mighty grasp provided it be properly disciplined and harnessed? Nothing is tamer or more harmless in nature than a man of few thoughts. His mind is full of crude unpolished ideas, undigested plans and useless lumber. 
Saturday October 31, 1835. I have made some calculations upon keeping a meteorological journal from this time, but as yet I have seen no way of procuring the necessary instruments. Poverty hinders me. The truth is, the Institution ought to be furnished with such apparatus as is requisite for these observations. When my ship arrives in port, I shall no longer be smitten with the curse of an empty purse! Till then I must coax old Plutus and propitiate his favor. 
Sunday November 1, 1835. A man who has never passed a fall south of New York can hardly imagine how mild and delightful the climate is. If I may judge of the weather from what I have already seen, I could not wish for a more agreeable temperature. Webster for the first held forth this evening in Chapel. Indeed his virgin effort is not to be sneered at; he only wants polishing to make a decent preacher. 
From M. Rollins Ancient History I extract the following sentence."A race was run on foot, each of the runners carrying a lighted torch in his hand which they continually exchanged with each other without interupting the race. 
"They started from Ceramicus, one of the suburbs of Athens and crossed the whole city. The first that came to the goal without having put out his torch carried the prize." 

Many professed Christians enter the lists to run the Christian race. Their torches burn bright at the onset but alas! how few arrive at the goal with the flame of love still burning! 
Monday November 2, 1835. I was somewhat astonished to see such [an] authority as Rollins favor the opinion that the ancient oracles were delivered by the power of demons. He gives no arguments in proof of such an idea except the authority of antient tradition and the consent of the holy doctors who, although they may have been impartial men, lived too near the age of oracles and superstition not to be misled in the vast obscurity of ignorance. I am not willing to believe that the devil ever held the seat of any oracle or foretold any prophecy and they perhaps who accuse him of so great agency in all human affairs might better refer to the malignity and imposture of man. 
Tuesday November 3, 1835. Walked to the city this afternoon to attend a meeting of "The Board." At their last session they passed a resolution to grant me $300 and my board at the "Mansion House," for which was compensation I was to labor five hours a day. Mr. Bradford, a young man who teaches languages, serves them four hours for $500. He is a Presbyterian and I fancy no better capable at teaching than myself. In consideration of this I made communication to the Trustees this afternoon that I should not accept their proposals, that my terms were $500 for 5 hours service per day or a proportionally less salary for less labor. Mary Ann returned this morning from town. 
Wednesday November 4, 1835. How many men live by the reputation and labors of others, how many by filching hard-earned laurels, or retailing knowledge which they had no hand in discovering! It is humbling to a man of spirit and inquiry to take everything second-handed upon the authority of others, but in this advanced stage of science a man may travel nearly his life time before he can arrive at the limits of the discoveries which have been made, much less expect to extend them still farther. Original knowledge is truly valuable. What a man has learned by his own research and experience, he is not ashamed to impart to others for fear of being charged with literary theft. 
Thursday November 5, 1835. It is a bitter thing for a man to sin against his conscience. No one can do violence to that faithful preacher with impunity, and he that keeps his moral sense pure and unspotted from known sins may truly be said to have acquired the only sure art of living happily. 
Friday November 6, 1835. If a man would look at his own thoughts, those 

changes of feeling and opinion that agitate his mind; if he would closely observe, moreover, affairs exterior to himself and not overlook the common occurrences of life because they are' frequent; if he would, like the honey bee, extract sweets from the most insignificant flower and make everything conduce to the growth and strength of his intellect: then we may confidently say that for every pigmy we might expect a giant mind and gods instead of men. 
Saturday November 7, 1835. Took my sister to the City on Thursday where she intends to spend the winter at Miss Edmonds' School (George Street), If I opine rightly, this will be decidedly an important change for her inas.much as her advantages will be superior to any that she could hope from Haddington; and, at the same time that she is earning her board by teaching, she is learning music and painting besides making a review of her previous studies. Miss Edmonds, I suppose, is an old maid, at least so she says. Many of her notions regarding schoolteaching and the government of girls are peculiar to herself, but Mary Ann will not perhaps find the rules of one aged matron more intolerable than those of another; Miss Sheldon's discipline was rigid enough in all conscience. Miss Edmonds cannot be more so. Like all other persons of their age, whose prospects of matrimonial connections are dreary, in their excess of prudence to guard against the errors of the sexes, they prescribe that mode of conduct for their pupils that will eternally preclude the hope of their becoming anything else than what they are themselves. They shrink from the touch of a young man as from a viper. 
Sunday November 8, 1835. We are told that man is a religious being, that superstition is woven in his very make, and the seeds of devotion are planted in the heart of the most untutored savage. All this may be true, but not more so than that man violates the best feelings of his nature and the impulses of conscience when he despises the laws of God and obeys the dictates of his wicked passions. We have no reason to be surprised that some choose the pleasures of fleshly appetite and delight themselves with no higher joys-than the beasts. This arises not merely from the perverseness of their natures but from an ignorance of intellectual pleasures. The mind is ever active, it is in the spiritual world what "perpetual motion" is in the physical --eternally on the wing like the fabled albatross. 
In the intervals of employment and in the hours of sleep, it preserves its restive state and, where proper objects of contemplation are not offered, combines materials into images of its own conception. But notwithstanding the immaterial nature of mind, its vast power and eternal duration, it is too often subservient to the meanest appetites and the vilest passions that "flesh is heir to." This image of divinity whose capabilities no mortal has ever attempted to limit is buried in the rubbish of vicious indulgence and although naturally vigorous and [soaring?] is, by carnal excesses, degraded to the earth, made to breathe a deadly atmosphere and mingle in scenes incongenial to its nature. It is strange, it is irreconcilably strange, that so few men know that they have souls which to bedeck with virtue and knowledge and to purify by repentance is more comely than all the exterior ornaments of the body or the courtly splendor of palaces! -.that so few anticipate the intellectual and spiritual feasts of heaven by foretastes of their delectable food, rather than pamper the appetite to the destruction of the soul, --and finally that so few rest upon the promises of heaven for eternal felicity in choice of the shortlived enjoyments of the present existence. 

Monday November 9, 1835. From the time that my sister left, I am to pay Mr. Collom three dollars per week for board and have my washing done and wood found. For the four weeks before, I must pay two and two-thirds. Last Tuesday the Board of Trustees appointed a committee to meet at the Institution with the teachers for the purpose of regulating the hours of labor and especially to consider my case. Finding me still tenacious of my original position, to receive five hundred dollars per year for five hours service per day or a proportionally less compensation for less labor, they agreed to give me three hundred dollars for the present term and let me teach three hours daily. This arrangement suits me as well as any other although by it I can no more than support myself; yet my leisure is so abundant that I can make ample progress in my studies. Decision is the mainstay of a man's conduct. 
Tuesday November 10, 1835. By comparing the amount of knowledge gained in infancy and childhood with that acquired during the same period in age we shall find a mighty disproportion in favor [of] childhood. The world and all its scenes are then new, the mind in its nascent state buds forth rapidly towards maturity and takes advantage of many faculties which in future -age become blunted by use, or rather give place to the exercise of some more important power. After man has acquainted himself with all the common topics of life and stripped everything of its novelty, after a few years of experience by which he has been initiated into the ways of living and raised his intellect to a common level with those who float around him, he then contents himself with having reached the general standard of attainment. 
By imitation alone the child learns more in the first five [years] of his life than in any subsequent. 

Wednesday Novem.ber 11, 1835. Rainy. The weather as yet has been the mildest that I ever enjoyed during the fall. I doubt not but that in New England the Yankees have stinging northeasters before this time. 
Now is my time to study, being employed only three hours a day and having nothing to distract my mind --no cares, no calls and no allurements beyond the limits of my own little study. It would be a happy circumstance if I could so realize the advantages of my situation as to improve each fleeting moment as it flies. Expend no time without an equivalent. Whether you study or read or converse. Whether you walk or ride. In fine, while you exist let no moment fly into eternity without bearing a rich burthen of virtuous actions or deep rich thoughts. 
Thursday November 12, 1835. The discernment of men, even into those affairs which most naturally affect their happiness, generally confers but little credit upon their judgement. So imperfect is their knowledge of one another and the peculiarities which distinguish us that none but the most wary are exempt from the liabilities of being imposed on. The success that has attended quacks and mountebanks who with unblushing impudence publish their own praise and commendation, the popularity that many an ignoramus has enjoyed merely upon the authority of his own assertions, and the universal credulity of mankind regarding such matters has led me to think often times that it were a more sure road to eminence for a man at once to advertise the world of his greatness and not[rest?] with more assurance upon their consent than upon the slow but sure ground of merit. It is a lamentable fact that the generality of men succeed in life according to their amount of impudence; he that is most bare-faced and "puts the best foot forward" need never fear of turning the minds of men to his opinions. 
Friday November 13, 1835. Paid Mr. Collom for my sister's board. Oh! what a dull fate is this of mine. I am very industrious, although I speak my own praise, yet so impotent is my mind that I make little or no progress. I study many hours and let no minute pass unemployed. I rise early and retire late, I lay plans and accomplish them, yet after all, my hard labors seem nearly in vain. The fact is that I have not merely the weakness and inexperience of youth but all its impatience backed by ambition, Because the goal of greatness is not within my reach and my advances so rapid that every hour shall be appreciable when compared with the years that intervene between myself and distinction, my faint courage gives back. I relent in my resolution when reason urges onward and calls patience, industry and perseverance to my assistance. I have read of men who have been great from the cradle --whose minds were matured even while their little limbs tottered beneath them. I have read of Newton, Pascal, Clairaut and others till my heart burned to be like them, but in despair of rivaling their youth, even by the wisdom of age, or of reaching an eminence where I might merely see the extent of their labors, the indecision of youth has almost loosed me from my virtuous resolves, to make life easy amidst the pleasant employments of the world. I have been tempted to let my mind feed upon the varieties of life and quit the indigestible feasts of science. 

Saturday November 14, 1835. Of all hells deliver me from one where there is the squalling of children. I can suffer any harsh music, I can listen calmly to the jargon of a multitude, but to live within hearing of a child's small voice is more beyond suff[era]nce than the shrill pipes of a scolding woman. Nothing wearies my patience equally because it arises commonly from fretfulness, the consequence of bad education and speaks in tones not to be mistaken, the harsh language of anger. 
Sunday November 15, 1835. "Oh what a miracle to man is man"! a being infinite in duration, inconceivable in capabilities, insatiable in his desires and progressive in endless improvement. His better part pants for immortality, his meaner grovels in the dust of earth. The one is spiritual, the other gross and carnal. The former constitutes the man; the latter, the beasts. 
I walk forth of an evening to converse with God in his work, behold His handy workmanship; my eye wanders from star to star, untired, from the gorgeous cloud in the west to the full-orbed moon just peeping over the eastern hills, and would my soul also be tired of such an erratic journey? Would it not delight to sit upon the golden cloud and view the world rolling below; or, surveying the uncertain surface of the moon, glance to other distant orbs, commingling with other orders of beings; would it not find some satisfaction in tracing the comets' eccentric flight and visiting the temple of the sun? 
After all this how majestic would appear the wonder-working God, incomprehensible in all his ways and past finding out. Oh! How I long (presumptuous desire) to be a spirit disenthralled! an angel of light, a messenger of the-Great King to do his will among the hosts of heaven, and the general assembly of the first born! 
Among all God's creatures the infidel is the only anomaly. Has he a soul and does it not speak to his convicition of the being and perfections of a Great First Cause! 
Monday November 16, 1835. Now and then my thoughts recur to the past and pictures of fond recollection. I like to dwell upon early remembrances; they are pleasanter to a wearied soul than all delusive anticipations of the future. 

Retrospection is like an enchanting prospect from some rugged eminence. The traveler has passed the delightful valley and began the toilsome ascent which in the distance seemed smooth and inviting; fatigued with his journey he ever and anon steps aside to look back upon the pleasant scenes he has enjoyed for the last time. They cheer him in his labors, they beguile his tardy hours and refresh his languid spirits for new toils. Thus with the backward view of life. The panorama of our existence is spread at our feet and instead of dwelling with a critical eye upon its defects, we love it for the good we have received and the pleasure enjoyed. Will there be no past in heaven? There must be; without it, methinks, the bliss of paradise would not be perfect. 
Tuesday November 17, 1835. The dismemberment of a class in College is like the opening of Pandora's box. The seeds of life and death are cast upon the waters of life and it is long uncertain whether this or that shall be a blessing, or whether all alike prove a health to the world. Hope goes with them. Armed with the most powerful weapons which can be put into the hands of man --talents and learning --young and untaught by experience, illy fortified by the force of moral principles and the safeguard of religion, how many yield then to the destruction of their kind and, sinking a prey to their own misguided passions, drag down other immortal spirits to the dust with them. They fall not single but in their death slay others whom it might have been their glory to have saved by their influence and example. Where is the hell low enough to punish .misapplied talent! 
Wednesday November 18, 1835. I find a few more names upon the catalogue of my class in college which I have not as yet enrolled in my class biography. They are such as entered late. B. Pratt Babcock of New Hartford entered our class in the senior year from Hamilton College. He was a pretty decent scholar and generally accounted a fine young man. I know nothing in particular either to his credit or discredit. Our acquaintance was too limit to avail much in the right estimation of his character. 
Thursday November 19, 1835. James C. Forsyth of Newburgh was first entered at Rutgers College, New Brunswick, N.J. but subsequently came to Union, young and wayward. He associated with wild young fellows because unsettled and negligent of his studies and finally was sent home the last term senior. Forsyth is from a very respectable family, his father being one of the leading members of the Ass[ociated?] Reform Church, and were it not for his unsettled notions and bad habits might be an ornament to any profession. His careless mode of life injured his health as well as his character. Success, Jim. Vale. 

Friday November 20, 1835. Henry L. Knowles, Potsdam, from Vermont University, entered our class senior year, and took a pretty good stand. I believe him to be a man of talents, virtue, and promise. 
Saturday November 21, 1835. Owen Munson, Ogdensburg. Poor Munson! He was a singing master, and continued by teaching schools in the vicinity to replenish his pocket. Unfortunately, however, by taking cold he lost entirely the use of his voice, so that he could scarcely be heard in a whisper. The last I heard of him he was going as a teacher into some deaf and dumb Asylum. Munson was a scholar of respectability, a Christian and gentleman. I feel for his unfortunate case and not only I but his whole class. 
Philadelphia Sunday November 22, 1835. A cold storm of sleet and rain. Rode to the city. Heard a Mr. Potts of St. Louis preach in Mr. Barnes' church. Saw my sister. She is well contented and happy. Heard from home, all well. Haven't spent this Sabbath very pleasantly or, to say the most, very .profitably. No enjoyment in religion, cold within as the storm without. Poor wicked wretch! 
Haddington Monday November 23, 1835. Cold stormy day. Sleet falls in torrents and is whirled around rudely by fitful gusts of wind. The trees are clothed in a mantle of ice. Had my courage a little tried this morning, I must confess, when I awoke and heard the cold storm pelting without. Ease invited to sleep, she portrayed the exellences of a warm bed above the cold comfort of bending over the early study, the miseries of early rising, the dangers of the close[?] student and refrigerating one's self too suddenly in the chilly atmosphere of an inclement morning. Reason however prevailed by sound arguments and appeals to conscience. 
Tuesday November 24, 1835. Every situation in life has its miseries but especially that which it is our fortune to occupy. Here I must break off my sentimentalism, for in Bourdon's Algebra I find an example for the "exercise of the student" which, having solved, for the want of a sheet of paper I must transcribe into my diary. 
By a certain process we obtain [the] 2 equations to which we are to apply the process of 
x3-6x-7=o 3x2+3ux+u2-6 =0 
3x3-18x-21= x-u 

3x3+3ux2+u2x-6x -3ux 2 -(12+u 2) X -21 
-3ux2-3u2x-u3+6u (2u2-12)x+u3-6u-21 
Making (2u2-12)=M a~ multiplying &c we have Mx+u3-6u-2 l 3Mx2+3Mux+MuZ-6M 3x+N 
3Mx2+3u3x-18ux-63x 
(Multg.Rem. by M) and making M(3Mu-3u3+18u+63)= N x+M2u2-6M (3Mu-3u3+18u+63)=N _M_(__ """:-'N )x+Nu3-6Nu-21N 
-NU3+M2u2+6Nu+21N-6M2 
substituting the values of M & Nin this Rem & making the whole = to Zero we have 3u6-6u6+36u4-18u4-63u3+4u6-48u4+144u2+36u4-216u2-l 8u4 +108u2+378u+l26u3-756u=63u3+378u+1323-24u4+288u2-864=0 
reducing we have 
u6-36U4+324U2+459=O 
November 25, 1835. I ought to write to Jim Fuller of N.Y. with whom I promised to communicate once a month and open the correspondence. Nothing is truer than this old maxim, "Out of sight, out of mind," but depend upon this that nothing will cool the ardor of friendship so much as neglect. As your friend's affection is warm, so will his sensibility be keen. If you have made a promise to him, fulfil [it], for if slack concerning promises to a friend, with whom can you find it [in] your interest to preserve trust? 
Thursday November 26, 1835. The dispositions of man and wife should come together like the parts of Solomon's temple without the sound of the hammer or any other instrument. Nevertheless I am not sure that this is often found to be the case. In many instances, the "unruly member" sometimes makes vast confusion in the happiness of the conjugal state. 

Friday November 27, 1835. Tried to snow "a bit, but turned out to be only a squall. 1áknow a man who, although occupying a station above his merits and receiving a compensation too liberal for his services, falls out so much with fortune that his mouth is always full of complaints against the decrees of the fickle Goddess. He lays that to the charge of fate which cannot with any truth be laid at any door except his own. Poor unhappv mortals are they who long for the blessings of life without any of its labors and vexations! They fret away the only remnant of happiness which innocence left upon earth when she fled to heaven. The real and unavoidable evils of life are quite as much as the weakness of man can suffer but, when he is so foolish as to augment his miseries by unavailing complaints and extenuate his poor comforts by imaginary wretchedness, he deserves to feel all the pain and disquietude of the stupid ingrate. 
Saturday November 28, 1835. Glorious day. The sun rose clear, spreading its gorgeous splendor over the whole orient. About an inch of snow fell last night. Went in town today for my sister. 
Oh that I had patience and industry combined! For want of the former virtue all my efforts are unsatisfying. I am continually reproached with the misuse of time and imbecility of mind. I confess that she has much cause to complain. It is true that I am always employed, but my industry is of the most useless kind --a negligent, ineffectual kind. I am too easy thrown off my track by slight impediments, too ready to admit frivolous excuses for omitting my studies and very seldom stretch mind to utmost powers. 
Sunday November 29, 1835. Cold windy day. Mr. Collom preached in the afternoon, but a poor speaker, I think, very pompous and inflated in his manner, and his ideas common. Nevertheless this must be allowed, that he was called upon unexpectedly. I live a miserable rate, religion is the last thing in my thought, the worst attended to among all my duties. Its lively calls are unheeded, its admonitions slighted, its laws contemned. It has lent little power over all my actions which are rather shaped to the maxims of the world. How long will the Lord suffer so disobedient a servant? 
Monday November 30, 1835. My domicil is a little seven-by-seven chamber with one low window and a battered door. Although in the beginning but ordinarily finished and at present exhibiting many marks of decay, yet on the whole it is a comfortable habitation. Its garniture is scanty but equal to my wants: a wood stove and cot, one chair, a bit of rag carpet and a pine desk. A recess in one corner, closed by a six-penny curtain, is my "sanctum sanctorum," containing my scanty wardrobe and my more scanty library. Upon a nail opposite me hang my old two-stringed fiddle, the only talkative companion of my loneliness. Thus I start in the world and what will be my end the Lord only knows! Whether good or bad the future doth not yet reveal. 

Tuesday December 1, 1835. Chopped one-half cord of hickory within ten days; by this I live. No exercise suits me better. Sawing is good, but chopping wood is better. 
I once imagined myself pretty well taught in the science of human nature, but experience lays open my ignorance. If anything can try a man's patience and teach him his impotency, it is the management of school. Few men are fitted for government. I never was. 
Wednesday December 2, 1835. Pretty cool. I am now enjoying my halcyon days. As age increases, my cares will augment until I shall be crazed by the multiplication of anxieties. I feel their weight pressing more heavily upon me daily. What wili be its end I know not unless religion and philosophy come to my aid so that I may overcome with confidence. How foolish we all are in youth not to believe the admonitions of age whose wisdom is made up of the experience of years and the calm judgement of grey hairs! Alas! how obstinately we seek disappointment when disregarding the accumulated testimony of millions. We expect that life will correspond to the airy visions of the youthful fancy. 
Thursday December 3, 1835. I knew one Putnam in College --the grandson of old Israel Putnam. He was in the class above me, but I mention him for the pranks which were played upon the unlucky wight. "Put" was pious but by imprudence lost all the religious influence which he might have had over his fellows. He "cast his pearls before swine." 
His killing fault was too much selfesteem; this made him ridiculous and despicable in the sight of all. Among the many "trainings" which he had, the principal was one in which Belden had part. 
Put's door was burst open at midnight and he completely deluged 
with water. .But this was no sooner done than the actors had to provide for safety; he pur~ued them in a complete state of nudity and falling upon Belden's track followed close upon his heels up the South Section and down again, round the "collonade" and into the North Section when he finally caught him in a corner. But this after all availed "Put" nothing. He had no light, his conscience would permit him to do his enemy no injury, and although he called loudly for a light to find out the rascal, yet so few friends had he that instead of helping to bring the perpetrator to light they concealed him. "Put" returned cold, wet and disappointed to his domicill but what a scene did here present itself. The remaining conspirators had returned in his absence and removed his cot, bed, and bedding. Enraged at his tormentors he turned in pursuit again but had only reached the College door before he received another cool bath from above. Nothing daunted, however, he "pulled" for his bed and after much ineffectual search found the lost treasure, but so dripping wet as to afford him no use. 

Friday December 4, 1835. Rain in the afternoon. The last name among the many which composed my class in College that I shall mention is Andrew Oliver. He entered during the Senior year from Hamilton College, was a companion of Babcock and upon the whole but an ordinary fellow. I never saw anything brilliant about him; on the contrary, his very looks betokened a stupid mind. 
Nichols had an inveterate roguishness about him which, although ordinarily restrained, would often times break through the bounds of moderation. His eye denoted cunning and mischief. He was always full of life and good nature. It was often his way to go into the city in the evening and knock at every door which he passed, to close the window shutters, or rap upon the windows. 
In the winter of 1832, Daniel Wood from Andover was in College. This was then their favorite amusement. Sometimes if a servant came to the door they would "snowball" her. 
Nichols and myself were intimate friends from the commencement of our course. I now remember a partnership which we formed to steal an old fellow's nuts. In some of our perambulation upon a Saturday about the good town "Dorp," we espied a fine quantity of hickory nuts drying on the top a shed, near Schermerhorn 's mills. 
It was in Nick's mind instantly to steal them. Accordingly we provided ourselves with ample sacks and one dark night repaired to the scene of depredation. After much difficulty we gained the top of the shed and having filled our bags decamped with a rich booty as I thought. But behold, after all my pains, when I had taken them to my room I found every nut bad. Nichols had better luck. The devil helped him. Having cl[u]mb somewhat higher upon the roof than myself he found a better kind of nut. 
Saturday December 5, 1835. To give but a passing notice, the pranks which I have seen in College would fill a volume. 
Doubtless I have mentioned many in their place; others I have omitted as being of too frequent occurence. Belden and "Dunc" Kennedy were often companions in mischief. On one occasion they had a mind to vent their devilish roguery upon the cattle which feed in the great park before the Colleges. For this purpose they manufactured a couple of rope bridles and, gearing the uncouth beasts of a pleasant night, rode them all about town. 
At another time they milked one of the cows and invited many friends to partake of their booty, but it so happened that the milk was bloody [and] so their whole labor was lost. 
Sunday December 5, 1835. Pretty cool. Walked to the city yesterday and 
home again this evening. 
Found no letter at the office, not very well pleased. Heard Mr. Gillette but enjoyed little or nothing of the sermon. The house was colder than any barn. 
My sister and I took dinner with friend Enos Myers, a liberal, friendly soul having many faults but more redeeming good qualities. Religion hangs loosely about many and hardly conceals their á deformities --so with me. I am more careful about my studies than my prayers and advance faster in knowledge than in holiness. 
Monday December 7, 1835. The plan of Mr. Ladd's "Index Rerum" is a very exellent invention. It is to the general student what the Concordance is to the Theologian, introducing him immediately to any subject which has ever come within his course of reading, preserving from oblivion in regard to himself an immense amount of knowledge. á 
I commenced one immediately after hearing his plan and am as yet well inclined in its favor. My reading is confined to few books but on this account it should be the better remembered and treasured up. 
Tuesday December 8, 1835. I spoke yesterday of Ladd's "Index Rerum." His Student's Manual is also a pretty useful book but on the whole neither so interesting nor so useful perhaps as it might have been made. 
I am not sure, taking his book for a criterion, that he is much of a writer although in his way they may be useful. 
Unless others judge more favorably than myself it will never reach a second edition. Perhaps it strikes others differently. I have become familiar with nearly all his precepts either by experience or instruction and for this reason, they appear trite. 
Wednesday December 9, 1835. Arose at six and started on foot imme.
diately for town. Arriving, found all doors shut and the whole city in bed. 
Lazy bones! they lose the best part of their lives in temporal death. But who would censure them? Not I. They live for ease and since neither ambition nor thirst for knowledge wearies their shallow minds, since whether time be killed or improved is a matter perfectly indifferent if it only passes without pain, let no one blame their conduct. Considering their circumstances, it is the wise course. Perhaps it may be said of them as [of] the Turk, "It is better to sit than to stand, it is better to lie down than to 

sit, and death is better than either." Obtained the President's Message and returned in time for school. 
N.B.Walking is fine exercise. 
Thursday December 10, 1835. Very fine weather for the season. Not cold. 
No snow yet. This climate is sensibly milder than what I have been accus.
tomed to. 
The chief cause of all my delinquencies in religious duty and the inconsistency of my life with my professions is a diffidence and pride in regard to prayers or exhortation before others. It is a fault that years have failed to correct and perhaps if I should live to the common age of man, would cling to me till the last. I have no confidence in my tongue to do me service; unless I deeply feel and have a happy spirit, which at all times I cannot be assured of, it were vain for me to attempt anything of this kind. I might open my mouth but my tongue would cling to the roof, or I mighr stammer a few sentences but they would be incoherent and altogether commonplace. I never can expect to serve God in this way without a rapt soul; otherwise, words will linger upon my lips, and my mind will be a sealed volume. á 
Friday Decemberl 1, 1835. I am well convinced of this truth, that industry makes the scholar; common talents can by patient effort level the mightier obstacles although like the little ants they remove grain by grain. Genius is altogether desirable but industry more so. The one usually spends his strength in deviating from the highway of knowledge and in imaginary schemes, whilst the other slowly but surely advances towards perfection in one straight forward course. 
Saturday December 12, 1835. Rained all day. Cold N. E. Storm. I feel no obstacle in my studies so sensibly as a negligent habit of thought. A man may flatter himself with the idea of his industry and the many hours which he has spent over his book and in the same breath charge his mind with imbecility and all the ill success attending his labors more justly attributable to his slothful way of studying. It is much the same with me. A mathematician should least of all men have wandering thoughts; nevertheless, in midst of a long demonstration I perhaps fall into a reverie, a thousand tumultuous thoughts rush into my mind. Where did I learn so injurious a habit? In College, doubtless. It will cost me a mighty effort to shake this lazy kind of industry, but it must be accomplished. 
Philadelphia Sunday December 13, 1835. Fine day. Walked to the city, attended Sansom Street Church and heard Mr. Dwight, agent of the Colonization Society. 

Read a letter from Mother. How much better for a man to mourn for his sins here than hereafter when despair and anguish shall seize him and hope be forever banished. Would that I could be in bitterness for my offences and heartilv repent. There might then be hope that I should forsake the evil way and cleave into holiness. 
To what purpose have I lived to the age of a man if I have not yet so well learnt the evil of sin as to eschew it. 
Oh! the heart is desperately wicked. Even if it be once cleansed of vile thoughts they soon return to take up their abode there and make it as a nest of unclean birds. The transition from the filth and sorrows of earth to the bright joys of heaven must be passing conception. So Paul says. 
Monday December 14, 1835. No snow. (From ten to twelve inches have fallen in Albany). Weather remarkably moderate if the feelings of a northern man can be the thermometer. ,~ 
Had a letter from Bob Strong, which revived recollections and made me feel "blue. I can hardly realize that four years have flown away since we first paired together in "Union." What do they tell for our future destinies? Will our courses in life be as prosperous and happy as our College career or shall we sink down into merited insignificance? The mind of an ambitious man shrinks from the long night of oblivious death and fears more the extinction of his fame than the dissolution of his body; much after the same manner should the student feel. 
Bob writes that A.G. Reynolds has published a pamphlet on the "Present Condition of Science in the State of New York, " but that he could find little "nub" to it. "Sandy" has began early to dispense the treasures of his mind. 
Tuesday December 15, 1835. So great an itching have we poor mortals for fame. It is not the wisest course for a young man to come before the world as an author, for too often his productions will either die in silence or be condemned by criticism. In either case the ardor of the young aspirant is damped. That a work is the production of wisdom and talents is often quite too small a recommendation to secure success; much less then can untaught genius expect to catch the eye of the multitude in his common flights. 
Wednesday December 16, 1835. Dominie Gillette tells me that Jere futon, that "odd fish," is in Windsor, Vermont preaching, teaching, and singing to edification of the natives. It appears from his own account that he was passing through that village on his way to New York. He preached in the evening and the young folk urged him to stay; the matter struck him favorably and he at once accepted their proposals. He acted out himself in this affair completely. No matter what other plans he had formed, this 

appeared plausible at first sight and therefore was adopted. 
This is his killing error--his indecision. His head is full of indigested plans of life, and if it be true that man's fortune is made by circumstances, Jere's will most assuredly depend upon anything but his own mature judgement. 
Thursday December 17, 1835. One of the meanest tricks which I ever knew in College was performed under the following circumstances. A satirical poem had been published in which certain members of our class had been severely lampooned. Graves was suspected, with what justice I can[not] say, of having been a contributor to the vile sheet. In revenge some of the injured party one night attacked his window and entirely demolished it; next night one of the aggressors had his shattered in return. This ended the dishonorable affair. 
At another time Jonah Gleason, who was suspected of being a spy to the faculty, had his "lights put out." John J. Hyde, who I have before said had many enemies, suffered an injury no less dishonorable from some unknown hand. Had a fine cloth cloak hanging in his room with a broad velvet collar. During his absenceto recitation, aquafortis was poured upon it which completely spoiled it for any further use. 
Friday December 18, 1835. Heard this evening that one thousand houses were burning in N. Y., among which were nearly all the banks and a great number of stores. The fire was still raging when an express arrived today for assistance. A meeting was forthwith held in the Exchange and several Hose Companies sent off to their relief. One's unwillingness to hear such dreadful news almost makes [one] incredulous. There can be no doubt, however, but that an extensive conflagration has swept away many hundred houses. 
The estimated loss is thirty millions! in which the Exchange makes no small item. 
Saturday December 19, 1835. A cold rain fell last evening which froze, covering everything with ice. Boys skating about the streets this morning. 
Clove and cut a cord of hickory within the last fifteen days and today went to a neighbor to beg favor of cutting his wood. Couldn't go to town for want of two shillings to pay the omnibus driver. 
Sunday December 20, 1835. Wet, foggy and slippery. The Holy day has come again, the Sabbath of rest to many a weary soul that has been harassed with the labors of a week. With me there is no Sabbath, I drag all the cares of life into the Lord's day. Within the precincts of the Sanctuary my plans obtrude upon my mind and ere I am aware my whole soul is lost in reverie. 

With such a wayward mortal, where is the sunshine of his existence! to what oasis can he retire from the burning desert of life! When the contemplation of heavenly joys and communion with God have lost their interest upon the feelings of a Christian, we must surely conclude that his moral feelings are disordered and need a speedy relief. 
I cry to God for succor but will He stretch forth his arm towards one who has no courage to help himself? I resolve, only to break my resolutions. Wo is me for I am an unclean man. In the ardor of youthful enterprise, I leave all for present good, and the thrust for knowledge, the desire of fame and the gratific[ation] of an ambitious spirit absorb both heaven and eternity. 
I own my weakness with shame and although I anticipate little else in time but bitterness and tears, yet when the Volume of life is closed and the mighty Tome of Eternity is opened I have some hope of being a successful candidate for Eternal Life and of seeing my unworthy name enrolled among the blessed. 
Monday December 21, 1835. Mud knee-deep. Warm. Who could blame one for being vexed at the provoking disappointment which I felt this morning? Webster took a letter from the Post Office for me, but the blundering left-handed fellow lost it before he got out here. It is the lot of us all to meet with many grievances in life. I am ready to bear a part in the heavy losses of human enjoyment, especially when they are rendered unavoidable, but to submit calmly to be vexed by evils so easily shunned requires more philosophy than I am master of. We may patiently suffer those ills whose causes be hid beyond the reach of human foresight, whilst we fret at smaller mistakes only because they might have been so avoided, and because they are wholly within the control of ourselves. 
Tuesday December 22, 1835. Fine pleasant weather. From all that I have seen thus far I prefer a northern winter. Even in the severest weather, things wear a more cheerful aspect where the merry peal of bells can be heard than a southerner ever dreams of. True, he feels not the rigors of a cold no'theaster, yet what is worse he has cold rains and warm suns alternately and if he has no snow, this is bountifully supplied with mud. The Christmas, Thanksgiving, and New Year's riding parties are not to be equalled either in [the] glee of pleasure or the healthiness of exercise by any outdoor sports of the southern countries. 
Wednesday December 23, 1835. I am wearied with the complaint and murmurings and imaginary evils which originate in the discontented spirit 

?fman. There is no hour_ of our llves ¡fp\fhlcb. we may s.ay is disburthpn.::u. of its ca:es, when the so~l light as air can free Hseff of all clog.'--:1.aJ m.01.1n111p on wings of pure en3oyment. As .if the accidents whKn are be,vo:nd our control were not enough to mar our happinP£.,, we induce ot11er~obstacles by the 1ndulgen.ce of appetites, by the 1mpetuos:ity of our desires, by a servile obedience to our ungovernable pass.ions. 
Thursday December 24, 1835. Scipio Africanus Secundus is perhaps the most perfect model of an exalted character which we find in ancient times. Polybius in his men1oir of this great man makes him not only invincible in arms, but noble and generous in soul, kind and affable in his manners, refined in taste and pre-eminent in strength of intellect and brilliancy of 
, talents. 
Whi[le] the youth of the city were indulging in an destructive pleasures which the plundered wealth of Rome could purchas,e, young Scipio --than whom no one had ampler means and more pressing temptations to enjoy the luxuries of life --committed himself to the care of his instructor, from whose company he derived exalted pleasures, lasting lessons of wisdom and virtue. 
Friday December 25, 1835. More like spring than winter. Some rain. Christmas, the cheif holiday of the year in this part of the country but so unlike the famous Thanksgiving Day of New England that I am scarcely willing to own it a place in my notice. Where are the acres of pumpkin pies rivaling in size the broad disk of the full moon? Who digs into the bowels of a chicken pie on this this unchristian holiday? Whose tables groan under the load of "fat things, " offered this day as a token of rejoicing and thanksgiving for an abundant harvest? 
Oh! for the New England festivities in comparison with which all others are not to be mentioned! The meeting and congratulation of friends! and the fervent acknowledgements to Almighty God which characterize our New England Harvest Home. 
Wherever heaven cast my lot, my mind will revert to the hills of the "Granite State1' for the pleasantest recollections of my early life. I may be prejudiced but must acknowledge that no people and country have so strong a hold upon my affections! 
Saturday December 26, 1835. Rained all day. My pen is completely used up. So narrow is the range of my thoughts that it puzzles me immensely to get a subject to write about. How is it that among the thousands of ideas that float in my mind during the short space of a day I cannot find one worthy of note? It argues a weak mind. 

Sunday December 27, 1835. Heard an elder of the Methodist Church in the afternoon. His venerable age and solemn aspect could not but be interesting to me although his manner of speech, which was after the mode of his order, was not particularly pleasing. The simple unvarnished truth fell from his lips with weight. He spoke of the past years as old acquaintances and, referring to the future, did not permit himself to hope that his aged limbs would bear him through another annual revolution. "Bretheren," says he, "when in the interval of our seperation the hand of the Good God lay heavily upon me, and my poor old crazy tabernacle had well nigh yeilded to the shocks of human ills, I little thought of meeting you again until our everlasting meeting before the throne of God. But He has exceeded my hopes, and opened my mouth to you in thanksgiving." How much the the artless worship of such grateful souls exceeds the forms of cumbrous rites and useless ceremonies! 
Monday December 28, 1835. Fine pleasant weather. Walked to town. Saw two Schenectady friends, Miss Freeman and Mrs. McKelvey, on their way to the South as teachers. P. M. Miss Purcell arrived from N. Y. to accompany. them. 
Poor souls, how homesick they are! No wonder, for they have now the prospect of making their journey, five hundred miles, cheifly by land, which is far from being a pleasurable jaunt. A budget of news from home. 
Philadelphia Tuesday December 29, 1835. Splendid day. Mr. Gillette and myself started off on foot to Kensington to see Penn's Monument. It is a plain obelisk 3 ft. high and stands upon the site of the old elm under which he made his famous treaty with the Indians. Near this spot he first landed. It is pleasing to imagine this scene, in which the Friends in their plain garb and simple language approached the timid natives in a peaceable manner and bought from them, as the Lords of the soil, ground to plant a colony and found a city. The innkeepers of Philadelphia are not less the patrons of the fine arts than of good living. On many signs I have seen specimens of painting which would not disgrace a gallery of pictures. The scenes are generally of a warlike character. I was particularly pleased with one which I saw today near or in Kensington representing an incident in Bonaparte's wars. A deserter was taken and about to be shot. On the right sits the General upon his horse and the poor man's dog in the act of supplicating the Emperor for his master's life. It is a capital piece. "The Passage of the Delaware" by Washington and his army is very well executed upon another. 
Haddington 

Wednesday December 30, 1835. Glorious morning. Contrary to our expectation the Baltimore boat started this morning, after having been laid up several weeks on account. I put my friends on board and bid them a very pleasant good morning. 
The beauty of the day and the prospect of a speedy and safe voyage dispelled the gloom from their minds and they left in high glee. The noble boat rushed proudly through the loose fragments of floating ice and was soon lost in the distance. 
Returned to Haddington completely "out of tune." My mind is unhinged and one week will hardly settle it again. Oh the misery of "gadding"! There may be a mental dissipation as well as bodily. 
Thursday December 31, 1835. It is with a heavy heart and trembling hand that I sit down this evening to record the last day of 1835. My mind runs lightly over the past to treasure up some fond remembrance, but retrospection is but a sorry task. The closing year has a mighty account against me --a debt which I can never cancel. His privileges I have misapplied, his days I have squandered in much negligence. Even by the frosts of December was I not warned to heed the precepts of wisdom and improve the fragment of time allotted to me by my aged friend. How much has a year's experience taught me? How much a year's study? Am I a better man than '34 left me? Upon my soul, I think not. It is a fearful acknowledgement but the truth must be confessed. But in the midst of all my misapplied advantages, I can say that I feel grateful to God for the undeserved benefits which he has showed me. He has crowned my year with goodness. Surely his mercies have followed me all the days of my life. 
