
Friday January 1, 1836. In Pennsylvania the old year closes and the new year commences with firings and every testimony of rejoicing. Christmas, however, is the principal holiday. I am much more pleased with the manner in which the New Yorkers keep this day. 
Saturday January 2, 1836. This is the most splendid day that I have enjoyed these some weeks. The air feels soft and warm, the roads are hard and dry. In fine, it seems as though spring has come in earnest and winter was superseded. 
Employed the forenoon in making a machine to awaken me in the mornings by means of a watch. I made several while in College. P. M. walked to the city and back to see the Treasurer --got nothing. 
In spite of all that has been said of the blessings of poverty, I cannot see wherein consists the happiness even of a virtuous poor man. He has not the cares of wealth but then, what is worse, he fears the cold gripe of want. His plans are rendered futile for the want of the strong arm of wealth to second his movements and, while he might accomplish some enterprise worthy of a noble mind, he is distressed and harRassed for the means of satisfying his daily wants. Is man made only to labor and sweat for a daily subsistence? I do not want great possessions but an independent fortune is devoutly to be wished for. 

I have felt the inconvenience of poverty so much that I have often been inclined to quit the dull, profitless profession of teaching and devote myself exclusively for some years to the acquirement of a small fortune, that I may then be independent and pursue my literary labors without molestation. 
Sunday January 3, 1836. No church. The hours fly on leaden wings. Mary Ann spends the day with me. She has given up teaching and will return to her school tomorrow as a scholar. 
Where is the joy that once I knew? The sweet communion with God? And the pure love flowing from a grateful heart? All gone. I am like a barren tree which bears no fruit and cumbers the very ground on which it stands. Job said a good thing; on this occasion I can adopt the same language; "Oh that it were with me as in days and months that are past when the candle of the Lord shone round about me." Poor erring mortal! when shall I be free from the disease of sin? 
Monday January 4, 1836. Rain through the day. The boys rushed home at the beginning of vacation like a hurricane but they return like snails. How characteristic of youth! In the same manner and with the same ardor they break from the restraints of education and enter the world full of hope and joyous expectation, but in age return to calm retirement, tired but not satisfied, experienced but not made wise. 
Tuesday January 5, 1836. Rainy. I would choose three feet of snow rather three inches of mud. This is such winter as I do not like. I had rather suffer in purgatory than endure the noise of children. Their eternal racket sets me mad, their foolishness grates upon my feelings. 
Oh the blessings of a bachelor! whose life runs evenly, unruffled by the cares of a growing progeny and unconfined in his feelings of benevolence to the narrow circle of his own family. He esteems others equally. The married man, with a blind selfishness, thinks no one a model of perfection but his wife and as for his brats they are the cunningest things living. All this may be well and necessary for the happiness of married life but after all it looks foolish. 
Wednesday January 6, 1836. Rainy. An affair which happened last summer in Union College furnished no inconsiderable sport for the mischei[vous] 

wags who were the actors. They collected together an immense quantity of pine boughs behind the North College and about nine o'clock fired them. The direction of the light deceived the townspeople, who mustered in a mass to quench the flames which were supposed to proceed from the College buildings. No one can imagine the vexation and chagrin which the Dorpians felt, when they found all their labor depended upon so light an affair. They comforted themselves with threats and denunciations, asserting that they would not stir again though Union College should burn down. 
The students have now a fire company and engine of their own, which are a very important addition to the fire department of the city. 
Thursday January 7, 1836. Rain and hail. What forces itself upon my notice by every day occurrence I cannot but note, viz. the immense waste of time by men of every profession, especially by literary men, falsely so-called. I say falsely because I am persuaded that none are true literati but the industrious students. The rest have a mere gloss or external show of learning by which they deceive the vulgar and usurp the name and honor of a few who labor long and dig deep to lay the foundations of a lasting fame. 
It is pretty well known that teachers are particularly obnoxious to this charge with which I have censured educated men. Too many are contented to think the five or six hours during which they are daily employed with their classes as the extent of their labors and spend the residue with most unbecoming negligence. 
I have among the list of my acquaintances such a character, who although a man of considerable talents, has not the application necessary to improve them. If I speak of study, he flinches from it and by this or that frivolous pretence neglects the fountains of knowledge. In his youth he laid up in store "a little knowledge" to which he has added nothing in maturer years, save what age cannot fail to teach in the school of experience. He teaches and astonishes his gaping hearers with his chattering; he closes his school and time hangs heavily upon his hands. He has not been accustomed to seek amusement from a book; this avenue of pleasure and improvement is therefore closed against him. He jokes with the servants, visits the workshops and chats with the men, or shoulders his gun and crosses the fields in search of heart's ease. 
It might be expected that such a man would at least keep his health sound but this he has not effected; to the slothfulness of his mind he has added that of the body and a gormandizing appetite. These have induced dyspepsia and all the evils of indigestion, so that his life is become a double burthen to him. 

Friday January 8, 1836. Cold rain. wind from the no'theast. Rise regularly at four o'clock and retire at ten o'clock. No student who wishes to wrest time from the useless indulgence of sleep and appropriate it to important purposes should gratify his feelings by laying in bed late in the morning. Such an one loses half the day. I have attained to this virtue, at least, of early rising. I now aim at another important object which I have mentioned before; it is a habit of close thinking and industrious study. If I accomplish this I shall have acquired victory over myself and advanced one important step towards true greatness. No habit has cost me half the pain as this indolence and no one perhaps is half so difficult to surmount. 
. Saturday January 9, 1836. Since Monday we have had rain every day. The earth is completely soaked. Today it has snowed six or eight inches. "Outof sorts." Barren of thought, know not what to write. My mind is literally a sealed book which I can neither open nor read. I know a few things but my knowledge is so badly classified that I am at a loss how to use it. It is a little lump of gold ore which for want of refining and fashioning is of small value. I find life at best unhappy. What anticipation has painted in glowing colors as most to be desired turns out in the end to be false and deceitful. Like other youth I have conceived my happiness perfected when I shall have accomplished the plan which I have marked out for a comfortable existence Whatever labor I ply, this one thing is fixed. I must be a student, otherwise life would be but the essence of misery. The next five years I would not care to spend entirely in study with no other employment. At the end I might be prepared to enter some Institution as teacher and do myself some honor. But this part of my plan is by no means feasible. What are my resources? an empty pocket and a debt of two hundred dollars. As for hoping that my condition will be bettered, I cannot; a pedagogue's fare is hard labour and small salary. I suppose I might pursue my present avocation till fifty and, unless affairs brightened amazingly, not save out of my salary five thousand dollars against the chances of disease and the imbecility of old age. But if after serving my bachelorship I be persuaded to take myself a rib and she prove a fruitful vine, for conscience's sake how could I buy bread and shoes for them? "The long and short " of the story is this: ( unless the devil tempt me) I will not marry before I have a much better prospect of supporting a family. Perhaps it might not be wicked to wish for a wife who, in addition all her other accomplishments, had that very charming grace --a snug little fortune. In fact, wealth, in the world, is the highest adornment and the most powerful attraction that a young lady can have. 
686 
Sunday January 10, 1836. Snows still, High wind which makes fun with the snow. Not less than a foot and half has fallen. An old fashioned New England no'thwester. 
My warm stove and snug quarters remind me of the wretchedness of many a poor mortal who although as good as myself now suffer without alleviation the rigors of a severe winter, to whom by reason of their pains life has become a burthen and all their hopes have ended in despair. God is wise, and if he exalts some and abases others, it is for a good purpose. Although his ways are inscrutable his decrees are not to be questioned. 
Monday January 11, 1836. Saw the sun for the first time for a week during which we have had a continual storm. 
The people are astonished to see such a snow. They have not been accustomed to see such a quantity. It is not, however, so formidable from the quantity as from the unprepared state of the earth to receive a body of snow. The frost by the repeated rains is nearly out of the ground, and what with mud and snow it is next to an impossibility for sleigh or carriage to pass. 
It is a disgraceful truth that the majority of men permit day after day to pass from the number of their alloted time without getting one new notion or learning one new fact. In this they are exelled by the child who, although no higher than a table, derives instruction from every passing object or action. 
Tuesday January 12, 1836. Pleasant. "We hear of five orders of archi.tecture --the Tuscan, Doric, Corinthian and Composite --but we never hear of an Asiatic or Egytpian, which gives us reason to doubt whether the symmetry, measures, and proportions of pillars, pilasters and other ornaments of architecture were exactly observed in those ancient structures. " M. Rollin, in the above remark has perhaps given them too little credit. 
Their style of building was as marked and peculiar and I doubt not as conformable to strict rules as even the Grecian orders were. Have the Egyptians no order? What do those noble ruins indicate that now border the Nile and which do not more astonish the traveler by the vastness of their dimensions, than they please him by the order and symmetry of their parts? 
Like the inventors of every art, the Egyptians at first made rude attempts at architectural beauty and, although they attained considerable skill in the workmanship and exhibited very good taste in the proportions of their public buildings, yet it cannot be denied that the hands of the Greeks, who borrowed from [them], very much improved and perfected this art. However, it may still be a question to whom is due the most credit, the inventors or the improvers of an art. 

Wednesday January 13, 1836. Warm sunny day; the snow disappears very fast before it. 
The well-disciplined mind is a noble and powerful instrument which upon any emergency its possessor may never mistrust. It is fruitful in expedients and prompt in its operations; in loneliness it is our secret and choicest companion. It smooths the adverse circumstances of life by the precepts of philosophy and the truths of religion. Finally in death how sublime is the action of a giant mind. Firm and undismayed it meets the enemy who, although he conquers the mortal part, gives a ten-fold majesty to the immortal mind by freeing it from the bonds of our carnal nature and dismissing it from so mean an office as that of ministering to its lusts. 
Thursday January 14, .1836. What we may gain by this exchange of conditions heaven has not fully revealed. Indeed, the soul is incapable of conceiving its future happiness, the mind too feeble to weigh the extent of its thoughts and the might of its power. 
What will be the employment of those peerless spirits which will be gathered around the throne of God? The homage of the Great King will surely be one part of their duty, and thanksgiving to the Lamb who redeemed them from the bondage of sin with the price of his life. 
Human imagination indeed can reach but a short way in conceiving the farther duties of the heavenly host. It may be that the sciences will be cultivated and the arts practiced. Perhaps the peculiar taste.s which now prevail among the minds of men will pertain to them in paradise, and they will [enjoy?] the avocations which have been their peculiar pleasure in this world. I mean those callings which are not incompatible with the purity and holiness of heaven. 
To what a glorious perfection will they arrive in music! Those who never sang before, whose obtuse ears never enjoyed the pleasures of har.mony, will then be apt to learn. Who can say what will be power of the melting melody of the heavenly choir! Who can count the number of the musicians who snall give concerts to the inhabitants of heaven in honor of the King and the Lamb. Among the whole, one discordant voice shall not be heard. 
Friday January 15, 1836. In Philosophy and Astronomy and in Mathematics and Theology what noble attainments will the lovers of science acquire! how soon will all difficulties disappear from every mind when the Great First Cause shall explain the principles of nature and the reasons of his vast creation. Hidden things will be brought to light and mysteries will be discovered. 

The community of heaven will be glorious. There will be congregated those that were mighty in intellect and holy in life from every age and country; aye, and can we say that the inhabitants of other planets and other systems will not then find a common home and a glorious resting place? Can we think it improbable that God will have all his children called to his holy city and provided with blessed mansions? Tidings will then be brought from distant orbs which now sparkle nightly in our bright concave; and by what we are now bewildered in doubt we shall then be overwhelmed in wonder and astonishment. If the number of worlds now pass our powers of calculation, how can we begin to number those representatives who shall surround the throne? If the mite of knowledge which the accumulated wisdom of ages has searched out in respect to other worlds now astonish us and fill us with sublime conceptions of the Power of god, what effect will the exceedingly superior display of his might have upon our minds, when we shall learn from our own experience and witnesses from his distant creation? 
Philadelphia Saturday January 16, 1836. Walked into town, roads very rough. Weather cold. Received a letter from my old friend Nichols of Andover, the Seminary. His chum Pollard (poor fellow) has left on account of ill health and retired to the chimney corner at home. He is, as Nichols says, "the victim of chance and the child of feeling." This last movement ls what he ought not to have made --better do anything than sit brooding over his misfortunes. It will only aggravate his disease and bring down a noble spirit to the grave. He has talents of the highest order --a cultivated mind and a fine imagination, but he wants that determined perseverance which will oppose every difficulty and surmount every obstacle that withstands him in his way to greatness. His ill health is induced in great measure by his inveterate sedentary habits. How often have I seen [him] pouring over some work of interest for days without moving except at the calls of necessity. No importunities of his friends could move him to take care of his declining health. 
I fear he is-a marked sacrifice to his devotion for books. 
Nichols tells me in his letter that Belden is quite another man. He studies incessantly and can hardly find time to eat, much less to smoke. He ransacks the libraries and lugs to his room all the old lexicons and grammars that he can lay hands on. 
He toils upon the Arabic, Chaldean and Persian. Ha! Ha! -that is characteristic of Belden --full of notions; he does not pursue a straight un.bending course. 
"Thanks for this miracle; it is no less than manna in the wilderness." 
I have obtained a little cash from the Treasurer and must make much of it, for nobody knows when I get more. 

Sunday January 17, 1836. Storm of snow and sleet. Dismal times. Thanks 
for a snug room and warm stove, blessed comforts of life. 
The Lord's Day is worst spent by me of any in the seven. The weather prevented any meetings today; my corrupt heart and vile affections, anh enjoyment in communion with God. 
How barren is life without religion. It .is a waste of thorns and briers where no pleasant fruit grows. I live too much for myself and the present life. My hopes and fears and desires and actions all centre in my own little, selfish person. What have I ever done for God or my fellow man? Absolutely nothing. 
Oh! poor mortal! it should shame me to look at this picture of in.gratitude toward the former and my insensibility toward the latter. 
Monday January 18, 1836. A little rain in the morning. At no time within five years has my health been sounder than at present. I attribute this to my constant habit of exercise; I spend from one and a half to two hours every day in cleaving and cutting wood, and this together with my labor of teaching gives me a fine healthy countenance and flow of spirits. If our pale, sallow students only knew the pleasure of exercise, I cannot see how they could forego the healthful excitement of labor. To a man of sedentary habits, its effect is like electricity upon the system. It causes his stagnant blood to thrill the system through his veins and produces a most pleasing intoxication of feeling. This is not high-wrought. I know it by long experience. 
Paid McCollum forty-one dollars for board up to January thirteenth. Received seventy-five of the Treasurer-on Saturday. 
Tuesday January 19, 1836. Pleasant day. Perhaps no universal history in our language possesses the merit of Rollins' Ancient History. It deserves very careful and repeated perusals by the scholar but especially by the young student who is anxious to obtain a view of the general features of the various empires and govenments which subsisted in antient times and 
iliar withmake himself familiar with the manners and ciustoms of their subjects. 
:ustom The author translates chiefly from the most approved historians who wrote at or near the time in which the events took place and may therefore be supposed to have arrived as near the truth as it is possible for us who live at this distant age. The morning from five till seven I spend cheifly in reading. 
Rollin at present occupies my attention and is made doubly 

interesting by the aid of Butler's fine set of ancient maps. Thus at the same time I study Ancient History and Geography. Without this additional help the work would be comparatively tasteless and, to say the least, one-half lost to the reader. 
Wednesday January 20, 1836. Received a note from Mary Ann saying that "Lib" Van Dyck was in town on her way to New Castle, Delaware, to teach school. She left this morning at seven for the place of her destination. It would have pleased me much to have seen her plump jolly phiz so full of good nature and frankness. A more laughing, light-hearted girl I never knew, and yet she has a cultivated mind and much good sense. 
I visited her occasionally while she studied at the Seminary in Schenectady, for which reason many thought there was more in it than friendship. It happened, however, as in many other cases they were mistaken. 
Dr. Van Dyck is a man of great worth and piety. At Scoharie he is universally beloved. I have spoken elsewhere of his family. 
Thursday January 21, 1836. Splendid day, a. little rain in the evening. I have had occasion in another place to speak of imitation. Our whole lives -.every word and action --are only copies of other men's. There is but little originality in the world. Whatever is new in manners is called eccentricity which, from the desire that some have of seeming singular, is often affected. It sits then most unseemly upon a man. In the fashionable world, novelties from their scarcity are caught at with wonderful avidity and communicated from one to another till the whole community breath the same spirit and language. 
Friday January 22, 1836. I have been pleased with the result of a few hours work in constructing a little machine for awakening myself in the morning. Some one of the students happened by chance to see it. He communicated the design to others and finally the whole school have set in good earnest to construct "alarms." Every boy has his pocket full of timber and during intermission our school room becomes a workshop. It is amusing to see the different degrees of ingenuity displayed by them. 
Philadelphia Saturday January 23, 1836. After the duties of my school, I walked into town and back. 
Oh! it is atrange, it is wondrous strange, that we think our short lives 
so vile as to barter them for trifles. How often has conscience testified of the superior satisfaction afforded by an industrious use of our time; and lashed us with her scorpion whip when we have failed of our duty. 

1cc 
I do lament that I am so prodigal of time: many minutes in the course of a day I turn to no account but lose them in idle conversation. The spirit is willing but the body is weak. There is a mighty conflict between my will and my carnal nature for the ascendency, the one drawing me into the hard and rugged path of industry, the other urging me to enjoy life and make my way easy through this short journey. Heaven grant that I may shun the voice of this Siren Indolence who has slain its thousands, although it charm never so wisely. Deliver me from the soft and enervating winds which play around her dominions, prostrating all strength and energy till finally her unhappy victims are led away to her strong castle, from which escape is hopeless. 
Philadelphia Sunday, January 24, 1836. Walked to the city this morning and returned in the evening through a no'theast storm. Attended Christ Church in theá morning, a venerable building, one of the oldest perhaps in the city. Bishop While is rector. Mr. James, his assistant, conducted the service and preached today. The congregation is called together with a chime of bells. 
P. M. Went to St Stephen's in Tenth Street and heard a good sermon--well.written and full of instruction. The house is a fine substantial building with considerable of the Gothic about [it]. The facade is built of brownstones and has a high oct[a]gon tower at either angle. 
Monday January 25, 1836. The student must shun a reverie and a woman as he would the Devil, for either distract his mind from his books. Hard fare and hard labor will cure the dyspepsia. This has been my experience. (Five or six inches of snow fell last night.) 
Tuesday January 26, 1836. Johnson queried whether or no there would not be more happy marriages if the Lord Chancellor made all the matches; but if there remains any doubt upon this subject, I am convinced there can be none in regard to this, that children would be better educated if put under the care of the government. Indulgent parents are answerable for three.fourths of all the evils and discomfort to which this life is subject. They are blinded by affection ... 
Wednesday January 27, 1836 .... and by excessive weakness devote their offspring to future wretchedness. They pamper their appetites and neglect to curb their rising passions. They clothe the body and cherish their pride but neglect the garniture of the mind: humility, patience, virtue and knowledge. Lycurgus took the true measures to raise a republic to greatness by providing for the education of the youth at public expense under the tuition of their wisest men by separating them from their parents and making them the property of the community. 

It is painful to witness the mistaken fondness of mothers and the pride of indulgent fathers in regard to their children, in producing whom they hurl firebrands into the world whose deadly influence follows their course until death. Many parents ... 
Thursday January 28, 1836 .... do scarcely more for their children than the wild ass for the colt. They beget them in a little momentary pleasure, bring them forth with pain and nurse them through infancy with fretful impatience or fond doting. Their childhood is spent in trifles, their youth without moral culture, and age is a curse to themselves and the world. 
Let him who doubts my sentiments on this subject visit either the hovels of the poor or the palaces of the rich. Let him contemplate either the squalid children of wretchedness or the offspring of pampered pride, and he will give assent to my opinions. 
One almost weeps at the deluded folly of parents. As they have been nurtured regardless of their true interests, so they bring up their children; and a bad education and neglected moral culture is entailed upon their posterity. 
Friday January 29, 1836. Cold weather these several days. From my short acquaintance with the Philadelphians I am led to believe that their ladies do not particularly excell in the solid parts of an education. They are polite, well dressed and handsome but farther I cannot extol them, except in regard to music, of which they are remarkably fond. I half believe indeed, as it has often been said, that education decreases inversely as the distance south of New England. It is a pitiful fact, if true. I know several ladies of wealthy families who, although having all the advantages which money could put within their reach, are yet wretchedly ignorant even about topics of the most common occurence. They sparkle indeed by their exterior accomplishment but through this thin veil may be discovered the barrenness of their minds. Among such where can an educated man find a companion his equal? Who is capable of inspiring him with respect and love? Can a mere toy always please, and afford solid satisfaction? In regard to myself, although not worthy of a Goddess yet, I should wish never to be bound to a dunce or purchase a plaything at so dear a rate as my happiness. 
Saturday January 30, 1836. It is manifestly true that one will speak out the sentiments which are uppermost in his mind, and of the subject occupying his thoughts will make frequent conversation. This being premised, what may it be presumed that my desires run after judging from a perusal of my late Diary? Surely I am getting foolish. My thoughts wander after the women and upon my soul I fear I shall fall in love ere long. Doubtless there must be a time when every man will commit such folly and, the sooner he can stay the madness of desire and the flame of his affection by a proper object, the sooner will he be fixed in a settled course of conduct for life and extinguish the roving propensities of his mind. Paul's advice is doubtless good, "It is better for a man not to touch a woman," provided he look unmoved upon female beauty and withstand the force of their allurements. But "it is better for a man to marry than to 

bum." 
My sister visited me. Spent the evening at Mr. Duggs and came wonderfully nigh falling in love with a pretty little Miss S. who sang and played like a nightingale. 
Sunday January 31, 1836. Stormed a good part of the day. Had letter from Jim Fuller last evening, informing me of the death of Jim Lawyer, a friend and classmate of mine. 
This is the first death that has occurred in our class and, considering our intimacy, it could not but be expected that such sad intelligence would fill me with astonishment and sorrow. Among the many individuals which composed our class Lawyer was certainly far from being the victim whom we would have suspected of being the first sacrifice to the King of Terror. 
I now recollect that he sometimes was indisposed although his ails were never thought serious or fixed, but upon reflection I presume he died of the consumption. 
I have written his biography elsewhere and upon review find nothing to obliterate in what I have there spoken of him while living. If I were to speak of his character now my memories of him might be partial since in the mind of a man a friend buries all his errors in the grave and nothing remains among the living but his virtues. 
Whilst I knew him Lawyer had no piety. Heaven grant that he may have repented before the summons came! Oh how bitter is the thought that he may have died unprepared to meet the judge! 
Who will be called next, I am unprepared to say. Doubtless some one whom I little-suspect; myself, it maybe. Oh! Lord fit me for this great and last change. 
Monday February 1, 1836. Very cold, windy. When contemplating my own labors I often think of the remark which I once heard a jockey make con.cerning a horse. "He'll trot all day in a half-bushel measure." It is much the same with me in my studies. I use every means to acquire knowledge except the effort of the mind which above all things is neccessary to success. 

Tuesday February 2, 1836. Experience is a very able teacher. None of her instructions were ever known to mislead, if properly received and obeyed. Whilst I have been teaching others, I have myself learned many lessons of instruction of the very first importance, and if I continue to improve in the art of governing may yet make a very successful and popular teacher. call myself a probationer, a candidate for some magisterial chair which, if I find the art of pleasing, I will accept; if not, I bid "good bye" to teaching forever. Why need a man weary and fret his righteous soul only to make a scanty livelihood and be hated? 
The reward is too small for so great a sacrifice. 
Wednesday February 3, 1836. Cold weather --bitter complaints, red noses, rubicund phizzes and all the accompaniments of severe weather. Sleighing, which is much in fashion, is performed in old clumsy vehicles, without buffalo robes or belles. 
The Penns seldom see a decent winter, therefore when it comes they are quite unprepared for enjoying its pleasures. A man must winter east of the Green Mountains to know the amusements of this bleak and inclement season. 
Thursday February 4, 1836. Every young man should read Rollins' Ancient History. Doubtless it is the best work of the kind that has ever been published, abounding not only with the sage remarks of ancient historians but many wise reflections from the pen of the learned author himself. 
To me it affords all the fascinating interest of a novel and double the real satisfaction because it is known or believed to be true, and even if it were fictitious I should peruse its pages with greater pleasure than all the flat love tales that were ever written. 
However, it is useless to recommend any work nowadays to the notice of youth but the scum and froth which issues from the press daily under the title of "the last novel." The taste of the reading ... 
Friday February [5], 1836 .... part of the community is corrupt. The public mind is vitiated and, to prolong the excitement and intoxication of feeling which works of this kind produce, there must be a continual draught at their corrupt fountain. They inculcate loose morality and wrong notions of human nature; they create a dislike for better books and for deep thought. History, I think, has no such withering effect upon the mind. It teaches a man true philosophy. Fiction on the contrary stints the intellect. 
By fiction I mean those works which abound under the name of novels, carrying through their story principles of false honor and mock morality. I don't ... 

Saturday February 6, 1836 .... deprecate all that is fictitious, neither do I object to this kind of writing. It may be it has been the means of alluring children and youth to truth and virtue. It is an instrument which belongs not to vice exclusively, although cheifly used to disseminate its deadly principles. 
Johnson speaks in high terms of fictitious writings and, in order to show us in what sense he would have us take his encomiums upon this species of composition, has left us one of the most perfect and beautiful specimens which can be found in the English language. I mean his Rasselas, a story full of wise precepts and virtuous admonition and at the same time clothed with such beautiful language that this facinating story almost seems the work of inspiration. 
Since Monday we have had very severe weather. Today it is much more moderate. Went to town. Everything which passes by the name of sleigh is,moving --jumpers, pungs, sleds and cutters crammed to the top. Mr. Gillette's wife being absent, I consented to pass the night with him. 
Philadelphia Sunday February 7, 1836. Mr. Gillette baptized a young man of the Medical School. How little pleasure does the cold backslidden Christian derive from the ordinances of the Lord's house! They are poor unmeaning ceremonies to him, quite tasteless and devoid of all interest. 
Solemn things move not a heart which is shielded with indifference. Portray all the bliss or woe of the future life and you will expend breath in vain upon such a rayless soul; a rock may sooner be moved to repentance. 
I fear this may be my condition. Heaven smiles upon my pathway and pours comfort into every avenue of life; my happy lot might provoke 
the envy or excite the desire of thousands, heart. Oh what a poor comment on huHaddington in a snowstorm. )  yet ingratitude man perfection!  reigns in my (Walked to  
[Haddington]  

Monday February 8, 1836. Deliver me from the tongue of a babbling woman and the venom of her wicked slander. She is to be shunned as a viper which secretly bites its unoffending victim and retires beyond the reach of pursuit or justice. Female slanderers hold the same rank in society that this vile reptile does among the serpent species. 
They retreat within their petticoats and are safe. They deeply injure the character of others and screen themselves from justice by their priveliges. They are unquenchable fire-brands which harm thousands beyond relief without emitting one ray of comfort except the gratification of their own malicious passions. 
Among the female tribe those animals called "old maids" are most prone to back-biting. Having but little employment at home, they seek a 

remedy for the tedium of life by intermeddling with the affairs of others 
and making their neighbors as desolate as themselves. Virtue shrinks from 
their touch and expects scarcely less severity ... 
Tuesday February 9, 1836. . .. than is meted out to vice or less departures 
from rectitude of conduct. They prey no less upon the character of their 
own kind than that of the opposite sex and .are more unrelenting in their 
cruelty than the most ferocious beasts which, whatever be the promptings 
of appetite or the fierceness of their natures, seldom harm their own 
species. 
Old maids are a commodity which ought to be shipped to Botany Bay with other refuse of society. The change would not only be advantageous to them, but to us. We might then hope to escape many of the broils which, although apparently trivial, do no less injury to the peac~.of a community than those mighty tumults which shake the stability of nations. But the bachelors --what shall be done with them? Send them off also to the same place because, by remaining unmarried, they augment the number of busy-bodies who infest the female tribe because they use no legitimate means to "multiply, and replenish the earth" and defeat one important object of their existence. 
Wednesday February 10, 1836. We have had fine sleighing these several weeks. 
'
As an evidence of the mildness of the winters in this part of the country scarcely a day has passed without my seeing robins, sparrows and bluebirds in greater or less numbers. The morning is often ushered in with the songs of these hardy little birds which enliven the dreariness of winter and cheer the gloomy heart with hopes of a speedy return of spring. Oh that my happiness were as full and unalloyed as theirs, that my devotions were as pure and acceptable to the ear of the Almighty as their mating songs, that I were as sinless and incapable of offense! I never see these pretty birds, perfect as when they came from the hand of the creator and which have never frustrated the purpose of their being, without feeling my heart sink within me and being humbled by the superior depravity of man, notwithstanding his more exalted nature. Their simple and artless lives ... 
Thursday February 11, 1836 .... are a perpetual rebuke to us and as far as we surpass them in intelligence so far we sink below them in transgression. 
Reports from the north speak of a cold winter. On the night of the great fire at N. Y., mercury stood thirty below zero in Franconia, N.H. 
l97 
Friday February 12, 1836. There is an astonishing difference in the capacity 
of individuals for pleasing. Some by the kindness of their natures, 
sweetness of disposition, and gentlemanly deportment win the affections 
of all; others, not less desirous of the good opinion of men, of a different 
constitution of mind and by an opposite course of conduct, live only to be 
hated and to render their associates unhappy. 
I have been led to these remarks by the very unpopular course which our classical teacher has taken. By his haughty bearing and irritableness of disposition he has allienated the affections of the students from him, and not only so but raised up bitter enemies among them who only await an opportunity to prove how deep and settled is their detestation. His popularity has long been on the wane; in fact, I am told he never had any but since he took unto himself a wife he appears to have 
altered materially his bearing towards his pupils and become more 
tyranical than ever. 
Saturdav February 13, 1836. It is a matter of regret to the other teachers that so unhappy a state of affairs exists in the school. The interests of an infant institution like this are always sufficiently precarious without any drawback of this nature but when, in addition to the indifference of friends and the embarrassments of heavv debts, it has to support the reputation of an unpopular teacher, the prospects of ultimate success are gloomy indeed. More than half of those who commenced the study of the languages at the beginning of this term have quit their classes and come into the English department, importuning me to become their teacher in Latin and saying, "If you will teach languages, Mr. Pearson, the whole school will study them, we like you so well." This is flattering indeed and I have reason to be thankful that my success has so far exceeded my hopes. 
Sunday February 14, 1836. Cold and windy. When I look over the pages of my past life, how few lines of comfort do I there find. My mouth seems always to have been filled with complaints, my pen to have been dipped in gall. What I might and ought to have enjoyed from religion I have lost by despising her precepts. What science and learning might have profited, or the study of Philosophy, has been too much sacrificed to indolence. 
Oh what an uncertainty attends everything in which man is an actor. He resolves only to break his determinations; á he dreams bright dreams only to awake in disappointment. To whose designs and purposes, then, can we look with assurance? God's only, whose decrees are firm as the pillars of heaven. We may rest upon his promises with reliance, and when all other props fail, His staff and rod will sustain us. 
Blessed is the man who feels this. His life is as a smooth and gentle river gliding between pleasant banks, his peace is full, his joy is lasting. 

Monday February 15, 1836. The following is a plan for a machine to awaken a person in the morning with the aid of his watch. 
[PLACEFIG. 1 HERE] 
[PLACEFIG. 2 HERE] 
The most proper thing to contain the machine is a small box of some kind about 8 or 10 inches long and 5 in height. Those which contain cigars are to be preferred because they not only can be obtained cheap, but because they are light and handsome. 
Tuesday, February 16,1836. Fig. 1. To get some idea of the interior construction, let HOIKLM be the two sides and an end of the box, the other parts being removed to afford us a view of the machine. AB is a wooden crank and axle around which a small cord is wound between AP. CD is a light piece of wood attached at one end to the crank by a thin bit of leather, and to the arm ED at the other end by a movable joint. EF is a roller turning on pivots and G, a small table bell. BR is an arm or winch corresponding with AB in Fig. 2. BCD (Fig. 2) is an angular piece of wood movable about the pivot C and so constructed as to prevent the winch from turning when the weight [Draw] acts upon the axle. E is a leaden ball weighing about half an ounce and resting upon the edge of PS. EF is a common darning needle inserted in the bullet and bent at the other end as at F. GF is a very light lever with a fine needle projecting from one end upon the face of the watch. 
Wednesday February 17, 1836. In the other end is a small pin inserted at right angles to the lever so as to play into the eye of the darning needle as in the next fig [ ure]. 
[PLACEFIGURE HERE] 
To the ball is attached a fine thread which is also fastened to the arm at D. H is a pivot upon which the lever turns and OQ a piece of fine wire fastened to the lid of the box to raise the lever and prevent friction. Now the method in which the watch acts upon this machine is evident. The minute hand is raised so as to pass over the end of the lever which rests upon the face of the watch, whilst the hour hand is depressed until it moves close upon the face. The watch is turned so as to bring the hour at which you wish to be awake and indicated by the figures upon the dial just under the lever. The hour hand passing around comes to that hour and moves the lever so that the pin at the other end is drawn out of the eye of the darning needle, the weight of which tips the bullet from its place and this, in falling, draws the arm BCD around so as to have the winch AB without support. The weight x then descends, drawing the cord TIJ which is wound around [the] axis, and causing the bell to vibrate. This is but a hasty and imperfect description of the machine but is sufficient to give some idea of its principle. 

Thursday February 18, 1836. Fell yesterday four or five inches of snow. By letters from Schenectady I learn that it is three feet deep upon a level there. 
My present studies are Hassler's An[alytic] Trig[onometry], Bourdon's Alg[ebra] (Review) and West's Conic Sections, having finished Wand's Alg[ebra [and] Geometry. Now whilst I am advancing in mathematical knowledge and exploring the beauties and depths of Calculus I have reason to fear lest my mind shall become stinted in regard to general literature. If a man knows nothing save the science of quantities, he indeed may excel in that, but his intellect will be disproportioned in its growth like the body of a dancer whose legs are strong, round and well proportioned whilst his upper parts are weak and feeble. I by no means approve of attempts after universal knowledge; such attempts are too futile to afford the least encouragement. A student ought to narrow down the field of his research to one branch of science only and some times still farther, making this the subject of his thoughts and labors for life. In literature and science, there ought to be as among the arts a division of labor. A tailor cannot be profitably a shoemaker, neither can a Theologian learn Mathematics to advantage. But what I wish to say is this: those odds and ends of time which every scholar finds, he ought to employ for the cultivating of his mind in general learning that he may be able to talk of other subjects besides those which principally occupy his time. 
Friday February 19, 1836. Oh how vain and delusive are all earthly comforts! Riches-take wings, "love is a wasting fire" and "ambition, a foe to rest." We resolve a thousand schemes of happiness in our minds but seldom fail of becoming the victims of disapointment at last. Poverty pines at the hard fates which condemns him to eternal want in the midst of the prodigality of the wealthy, and the rich covet the careless life of the poor. All this is not to be wondered at, for we know that every situation has its ills, and he alone is versed in the true philosophy of living who meets all the reverses of fortune calmly and is not surprised by the suddenness of their coming. Who has so far gained the mastery over his passions as to make them ministers of his pleasures rather than servants of his lusts[?] 
JO() 
Saturday February 20, 1836. I cannot deny that I in a great measure act contrary to my own precepts in this matter. The splendor of wealth and the glory of a name disarms me of my philosophy, and instead of dwelling with complacency upon my own happy lot, so free from cares and the perplexities of more exalted stations, I often covet the happiness of him who "is at ease in his possessions" or the applause of an admiring world. What can a poor friendless schoolmaster at Haddington expect, either of wealth or reputation? 
If he gets bread and meat and the dear-bought approbation of his pupils it is quite as much as he has reason to anticipate. (Walked to the . city and back.) 
Philadelphia Sunday February 21, 1836. Warm day. Snow disappears fast. Walked to the city and back again. The streets and roads overflowing with snow and water. Wet feet --wearied both in mind and body. Heard Mr. Gillette in forenoon and Mr. Duffield in the P. M., pastor of the church in Arch Street, formerly Dr. Skinner's. I understand that h:e and his church are "New Measure" men, the old measure men having lately seceded. 
Was much pleased with his unaffected manner, his plainness, simplicity of style and apparent zeal. 
Haddington Monday February 22, 1836. Lovely day. It makes one dejected in heart to be caged up within the dismal walls of a pedagogue's prison when nature so smiling invites him forth to enjoy her. The sweet little birds, innocent in their natures and happy in their sports, while away the live-long day with their pretty songs, careless of the future; their wants because few are always satisfied. 
But the deadly breach which sin has opened in the unalloyed enjoyment of man's primitive existence is filled with a thousand artificial wants. His life, drawn out ... 
Tuesday February 23, 1836 .... with pain, is a mingled web of good and evil, woven together. His faults prevent his virtues from growing proud and, but for the latter, the former would despair. So says Shakespeare. 
Where on earth can be found a panacea for the diseasedness of the human mind? 
The voice of nature may gladden his burthened heart; her beauties may drown in momentary forgetfulness the pang of woe; the intoxication of pleasure may blunt the acuteness of his pains; but when the tide of human misery returns, he finds himself less fortified to resist its 
701 
impetuosity. Free and full justification by the sufferings of Christ is the 
only medicine for a wounded heart. 
My birthday has dawned upon me again, and I am twenty-three years old. I can hardly muster faith to believe the startling fact. Twenty-three years old? what have I done and what do I know that is worthy of my age? My heart sinks at the thought, and often I think death might be a kind messenger to rid me of my despair. 
Wednesday February 24, 1836. His message would indeed find one unprepared but then will it ever find me better? Irresolution is graven on my heart, weakness causes my hands to fail, life wears away and I am no wiser or better. 
I have seen youth grow in stature and manliness.I have seen piety shine forth in their lives, with great strength manifested in every act. I have gazed until admiration was lost in desire to imitate their example, bu( my weak resolutions pass as the morning cloud. How will the coming year find me employed? Not so uselessly,, I hope as at present. 
Thursday February 25, 1836. Doubtless my time will be pretty industriously employed but then what matters all that if I accomplish nothing. There are minds which move quick as the lightning and produce effects of corresponding power; no obstacles impede their operations. Such are the spirits that impose wonder and respect upon their fellows. 
There are souls also on whose altars burns continual incense acceptable to the Lord. Their existence is made up of sweet peace or glorious victories over their worst enemies. They may fall but cannot be wholly cast down. They may grieve but joy comes in the morning. 
Friday February 26, 1836. I am neither the one nor the other. Sure piety might cover a multitude of grievances and reconcile me to my uneasy situation, but herein I fail of obtaining the approbations of conscience and the comforts of religion. This is my lot that whatever I undertake lags through my half-heartedness . 
Saturday February 27, 183G. Fine day. Sister Molly out to visit me. 
It has been said that the favor of a dog is worth something. If so, no one surely should despise the good opinion of the meanest man. I am led to make this remark on account of a little incident that took place upon my birthday which, although unimportant, tokens in a measure the feeling of my scholars towards me. By some means they had heard that Tuesday was my natal day and as I approached the Institution came forth in a body to meet and escort me with shouts and the most obstreperous hurrahs. At the close of the school they awaited to accompany me home but, choosing to decline this honor, I staid till they had withdrawn. I feel grateful that my imperfect labors and government are so well received even although this expression of approbation comes from youth. Their affections being warm are manifested with unequivocal manifestations. 

Sunday February 28, 1836. It is but a blue Sunday that one spends in Haddington unless perchance he receives comfort from other sources besides preaching. Of this we have but indifferent specimens. However, it is an encouragement to private worshipers that they are obliged to go neither to Jerusalem nor the mountain of Samaria to find the dwelling place of the Most High, but that they may make their own hearts fit temples for His spirit. He communes with the humble and contrite in every place, knowing none of those invidious distinctions of rank and wealth which men are pleased to establish nor despising the feeblest effort to do him honor. Indeed I know not whether the devotion of the closet may not be more sacred than public services, inasmuch as the heart is less affected by external circumstance, having fewer motives to hypocrisy and more near access to the Throne. 
The man who covers the rottenness of his heart by the specious appearance of sanctity before others will never dare to mock God or abuse his conscience in secret. The solitude will rebuke his wickedness. 
Monday February 29, 1836. Cold and stormy. What can be the final cause of this innate selfishness which dwells in the soul of every individual? It is doubtless a wise arrangement in the divine economy for the preservation and improvement of the species, not to engender pride but to counterbalance its opposite, virtue. What might be the consequence of eradicating this principle from our natures we can in a measure anticipate. The ruin of private hopes and enterprise would follow; the prime motive of all action would be removed and desolation reign over one-half the world. Self -love is a hateful passion although a necessary evil. In its extremes it is allied with meanness of spirit and a disregard for the general good. Public calamities and individual misery are matters of indifference to a man of such blun-ted feelings only so far as they affect his own interest. He is wrapped up in himself, exhibiting neither sympathy for suffering humanity nor that more direct proof of a kind heart, the administration of relief. 
Tuesday, March 1, 1836. My friend Jerry Eaton tells the following anecdote illustrative of the coarseness with which some backwoods ministers express their uncouth ideas. 
One of them was discoursing upon the decrees of God and, as an instance of what he took to be the irrevocable will of Providence, 
703 
mentioned his courtship and marriage to a slut. "My friend, said he, when I first went to see my wife Molly she was dressed so neat and tidy and looked so pleasant that I thought her the very pink of perfection, but I happened to call upon her once when she did not expect me, and found her so dirty that if she had been thrown against the wall she would have stuck in grease! Noth 'less I married her because it seemed the mandate of heaven." 
Wednesday March 2, 1836. I am not willing to admit the force of this anecdote in the sense which he wished to take it, but so far as it goes to elucidate female arts I perfectly agree with him. I speak not in reproach of the fair sex. These weapons of deception are the legitimate means by which they attract and allure the heart of man, who encourages them to persevere in their false show of beauty and excellence by the ease with which they suffer themselves to be taken. 
Thursday March 3, 1836. In consequence of Mr. Bradford's indisposition, I have taught the classics for several days. One very soon gets rusty in them without daily reading. Noth'less on trial I find the books which I read some years ago pretty familiar. 
There are times when the heart of a man sinks in despondency and he finds his mind so unhinged that his ordinary duties become a burthen. Such a state is particularly unfavorable to the progress of a student whose only hope of success is dependent upon the clearness and activity of his thoughts. 
Friday March 4, 1836. Now it may be a question, as to what means he should resort in such a case to rid himself of the vapors of melancholy and restore his mind to its wanted tone. Doubtless it would not be advisable for him to persist in what he cannot relish except, by so doing, there was good assurance that his wonted serenity of mind would return and his taste for his accustomed studies. The mind, like the stomach, is often disordered and then it is better to feed it with a lighter kind of food rather than cram it with strong meat which it nauseates and cannot digest. 
Philadelphia Saturday March 5, 1836. Glorious day. Nature puts on her smiling face and everything seems to rejoice in her smiles. Walked to the city. 
Had a letter from home, sweet home. This has been a severe winter for the northern people as well as the southern. Such a quantity of snow has hardly been known before this to lay upon the ground. At Schenectady the roads have been almost impassible, making provisions scarce and wood dear. Mother says in her letter that it has sold for fourteen dollars per cord. It is quite sure that I am getting homesick and I cannot see how it should be otherwise considering how matters pass in our school. One man has been absent more than third of his time and his classes of course have been neglected; another has been present still less, perhaps; the third although a notorious shirk has clung by the wreck because he could not quit; and finally I can say that I have labored more according to my salary than any man about the Institution. I have not lost a single recitation during the term, which is more than any of our teachers can say. 

Philadelphia Sunday, March 6, 1836. Passed the night at Mr. P. Laud's, a piano forte builder and member of Samson Street Church. Attended Mr. Bethune's church in Crown Street . This is considered one of the first preachers in the city and so far as I am acquainted with the clergy I have no reason to doubt it. 
In his person he is short, square-built and somewhat inclined to embonpoint. His sermon this morning was clear, forcible and in a great measure eloquent although, had he left his manuscript at home, it would have been much more so. His choir is excellent but the organ poor. The chapel is large and commodious, but I am disposed to think not decorated in the best taste. It is too light and airy. There is too much gilding and fancy work. 
However, as it is quite easy to find faults in any good plan or excellent performance I will leave Mr. B., his church and chapel to the opinion of the public. Had the curiosity to step into the Catholic Cathedral this afternoon where mass was performed [by] Priest Hughs. 
It is an immense building and but a rude attempt at the Gothic. In spite of its groined ceilings, clustered pillars, painted glass and heavy organ, there seemed to be a coarseness about the whole, illy comporting with the design. It has not the air of antiquity and the solemn grandeur which the Gothic ought always to inspire. 
The music and pictures of the Catholics are mighty engines for forcing the respect of the vulgar. 
Monday, March 7, 1836. They appropriate all the power of the arts to the service of God and err perhaps as much in the multitude of their rites and the splendor of their decoration, as many Protestant churches do in the opposite extreme. 
But I can not agree with those who deprecate in toto the magnificent spectacles of the Romish Church. Doubtless they are too much esteemed by the Catholic and made the substance of his worship, yet there is something in the antique style of their Chapels, in their painting and music which inspires the spectator with awe and veneration. 

Haddington Tuesday March 8, 1836 . I am worried, I am vexed to death with the eternal bawling of children. My patience is worn threadbare and my life is continual misery. I had rather inhabit the meanest hovel in the land with peace, than dwell in such a pandemonium as this. It provokes me beyond endurance to be compelled to stand witness to the incorrigible folly of weak. sillv mothers who make devils of their children to torment others before their time. Not one woman in a thousand ought ever to have a child. It is my hope that I may never be quartered among a family of children again, for although I can patiently endure a moderate noise, yet a hurricane of discordant sounds puts me out of all humor. It sets me mad; I 
á could wish myself in bedlam and deaf as an adder. 
Wednesday March 9th 1836. It is the fashion of this world to shift all burthens from their own shoulders upon those of others and to labor as little and get as much for their services as they possibly can. But of all em.ployments, mental labor is considered the greatest drudgery and therefore is seldom indulged in. This menial service of thinking is banished from all modish society; among the common people it never existed. In fine, the whole world have voted that the mind has reached its utmost bounds of discovery and that nothing remains yet to be invented. A few, verv few, have the hardihood to oppose this universal decision and think for themselves. 
Thursday March 10, 1836. Cotton's Lacon is an elegant little book full of pith and wisdom. It is a multum in parvo work, grave but not tedious, concise but not obscure. 
Friday March 11,1836. Of all the days, "fasti" and "nefasti," none is tho't more unlucky than Friday. Whence arose this wide-spread superstition? Perhaps, as some have said, a curse follows the day of our Savior's crucifix ion, but I am skeptical on this point and must continue to remain so until I see better reason to consider inauspicious a day which is consecrated to the evil deity by the superstitious regard of a few ignorant individuals. 
Saturday March 12, 1836. The days of a man's life are few and full of trouble. He flourishes like the grass but is suddenly cut off and where is he? He rolls in wealth or pines in poverty --conditions equally unfa.unfavorable to his happiness. Sometimes he feels the blight of false friends, the coldness of the world, the disappointments of ambition and the sinking of bright hopes. How often fortune flatters to deceive! "There's nothing true but heaven." 

Philadelphia 
Sunday March 13, 1836. The short history of Mr. Gillette's ministerial 
labors is one of singular success and good fortune. With hardly anything 
but native talent he has worked his way up to a station of considerable 
eminence where he now enjoys a reputation which would do no discredit 
to many a more aged but less fortunate man. From the tanyard he went to 
the pulpit. Setting aside the two years which. he spent at the Seminary, we 
may place all that he now is and has acquired to the score of his own 
genius and unaided exertions. 
Monday March 14, 1836. The church to which he now ministers holy things have known him a year both in the pulpit and out; they have heard his sermons and seen his daily deportment and with this full trial of his merits and more extensive knowledge of his faults, are about to expresf their minds upon the subject of his becoming their future pastor. He has opponents in the bosom of his church--bitter determined enemies who will oppose his election with all their combined forces; but they are of that . part who neither pray nor pay for the success of the gospel, who professing to be sound in the faith are over-much righteous and count nothing orthodox which savors not of doctrine and disputed theology. They are cheifly such men, I say. 
Haddington Tuesday March 15, 1836. Our friend Bradford, who has lately married a wife, is sick again. In compassion to his low estate therefore I have consented to teach his classes during the remainder of the term at the same [rate?] for which he teaches, viz., $500 for 42 weeks. Altha' I do not crave the job, the interests of the school seem to demand an arrangement similar to this. 
Wednesday March 16, 1836. When I was but a child my mind was deeply exercised with religious feeling. Almost as soon as I began to go to school and came to years of reason, my conscience was so active that I have wept many a time over my sins and knelt in secret places to pray. Often I have found myself exhorting a playmate to become better, to shun the evil example of wicked companions and live a sober and godly life. Whether this habitual religious feeling which followed me was the force of education chiefly, I know not. I am inclined to think, however, that the spirit of God then strove with my young heart powerfully to make me a child of God. 
Thursday March 17, 1836. It is no strange thing indeed that the tender 
707 
and susceptible hearts of children should be as easily touched by a sense of transgressions against their Heavenly Father as any person of a matured age. Such young ones are affected by like passions as men and why we should suppose that they cannot as easily become subjects of the grace of God because of the infrequency of such an event. 
Friday March 18, 1836. Selfishness is a mean, degrading passion, although a certain measure of it is necessary for every man, that he may regard his own interests and provide for his own wants in opposition to those of others. There is nothing generous or magnanimous about it; its spirit is "everyone for himself'; like the miser it has no fellow-feeling in common with others. 
Philadelphia Saturday March 19, 1836. Saw a Chestnut Street dandy meet with a most provoking fall, flat in the gutter opposite the Mansion House. The poor fellow bedabbled himself wretchedly, but notwithstanding his woeful plight met with no commiseration from the crowd. His bro[ther] monkeys shouted and ****tered him till he was glad to hide his [face?] in the first covert that offered itself. How natural it is for us to laugh at the accidents and failings of each other, even though they are serious in their nature and beyond our control. 
Sunday March 20, 1836. Enoch Hutchinson, an old schoolmate of mine, visited me this week. He is now a student of Newton Theological School and traveling to Washington to spend his vacation there. Enoch is himself yet, although his exterior is a little polished. It is a notorious fact that students of good breeding, after being incarcerated within the monastic walls of college for a space, lose their urbanity of manners and become singularly savage. It is on this account that I often think that the cloisters of our colleges should be closed, that young men might be scattered more among private families, mingling more in society and less with each other. 
Monday March 21, 1836. Several important benefits are thought to arise from such an arrangement, not the least of which is the softening influence of virtuous female society. It is not wonderful that youths of the same sex, immersed within the same building and mingling little or none with the world, should become both clownish and clannish. The situation is an unnatural one and the results must be unhappy. 
Tuesday March 22, 1836. Another evil would be remedied which in many places has arisen to an alarming pitch viz., the gregarious habits of the students and the spirit of hostility which prevails between them and the 
708 
people of whatever village or city is infested with a College. Many advantages also might be named arising from the monastic communities of our higher institutions. 
Wednesday March 23, 1836. How does the poor pedagogue feel who is eking out a scanty livelihood on a few hundred dollars, while perusing such notes as this from our public journals. "Madame Celeste, the celebrated danseuse, is skipping to the tune of two hundred dollars per night at New Orleans. She has pocketed in the year she has been among us seventy-five thousand dollars." Well might Cicero have exclaimed 0 temporal o mores, if he had lived in these days and seen people turn their pockets inside out into a strumpet's lap to see her throw up her legs and pull up her petticoats. Such, however, is the taste of community and there is no use in grumbling. 
Thursday March 24, 1836. 
'tanti quantum habeas, sis.' Hor[ace] 
I hardly know of a rule that has fewer exceptions than this, however meanly it may reflect upon the impartiality of my judgement. A man's character rises in proportion as his silver goes up. Wealth is the thermometer and his name is as sensibly affected by the weight of his purse as guick silver by heat. He is a rich man who has few wants. 
Friday March 25, 1836. How do I like to teach the classics? Why indeed about so-so. I do not find anything particularly interesting in "hic-haec-hoc"; neither can I say that they are uncommonly dull. This is pretty sure, however; one can teach languages with more ease and comfort provided he has decent scholars than any other branch of learning. To hear Mr. B's eight classes, so far as the mere matter of labor goes, I had rather do it than instruct my three. Nevertheless a linguist must spend much time out of school to prepare himself for his recitations. 
Saturday March 26, 1836. It is pleasant to quit the fatiguing duties of the pedagogue and sally forth from the buzz of a schoolroom scene into the busy world. The schoolmaster's task may not be less agreeable in itself than those which are more conspicuous to the eyes of men, nevertheless change is the thing coveted by every breast that bears a soul. 
Philadelphia Sunday March 27, 1836. I have several reasons for attending meeting in the city aside from the bare matter of preaching and I must confess this is no small inducement. My sister is there and other friends who are glad to see me. Haddington is a lonelier place of a Sunday; besides the exercise of walking makes my health vigorous and my sleep sweet. 

Haddington Monday March 28, 1836. possunt, quia pose videntur. Virgil. This is a mighty truth and needs no comment. Every student should write this on the front of every undertaking and his ultimate success would interpret his motto to the beholding world. 
Tuesday March 29, 1836. "A pin a day is a groat a year," an admirable lesson in economy! Judge Tomlinson of Schenectady is an economical rich man and began his success in business with this incident. á 
A green, untutored stripling, he went to N. Y. for the purpose of purchasing goods without one cent in his pocket or a friend to recommend him. He chose his merchandise, agreed upon the price, and had it packed, but his terms of payment were by no means pleasing to the merchant who required cash or a satisfactory recommendation, neither of which his purchaser could give. Young Tomlinson, however, assured the man that he would pay as soon as he had disposed of his wares; but such terms being contrary to custom did little towards effecting his purpose, and he was about leaving the shop in disappointment when a pin caught his eye upon the floor. He picked it up and put it in his sleeve, which act so forcibly con.vinced the merchant of his economical habits, that he at once credited the goods and gained a prompt and liberal customer. 
Wednesday March 30, 1836. Who ever heard an American speak ten words if "dollar" was not one of them? His mind is an arithmetic of loss and gain. 
Thursday March 31, 1836. Snow nearly all disappeared. Spring begins to look lovely. The near approach of a vacation after so long a time of study is indeed cheering. The heart leaps for joy at the thought of meeting those we love. 
Friday April 1, 1836. What is the origin of April Fool's day? This is surely more than I know. This is certain, however. It is a glorious day for fun. Oh the cabbage-stock-candle and the false letters!! These times are over. 
Saturday April 2, 1836. North River "shut tight," an uncommon thing and gloomy time for one wishing to see Schenectady. At home today because M[ary] Ann visits Haddington. Seven hours labor a day in teaching quite 
710 
too much in all conscience. 
Sunday April 3, 1836. Oh the enticing snares of the world! They steal all my best affections and leave nothing for heaven. What a fall is that which the backslider receives when he turns [his] back upon religion and seeks the world again. How sad the change! how fatal the consequences! 
Monday April 4, 1836. Upon my word I never appreciated the beauty of Virgil before taking it up these few weeks past I have attempted to teach [it]. It is full of beautiful passages and thrilling events. He has the true poetic spirit. Oh ye shades of Publius, pardon us for murdering thy verse! 
Tuesday April 5, 1836. Mr. Gillette closed the services of this term by an appropriate address. Bright countenances, joyful hearts and exulting voices with the boys. They leap from the schoolroom as the impatient horse from the goal. Poor inexperienced souls, how soon will the love of riches and the cares of this world choke their overflowing joy. 
Philadelphia Wednesday April 6, 1836. Spent this day in visiting various parts of the city, gazing at the lions and wearing out shoes for little use --vexing, un.satisfying business, alike unprofitable to the mind and pocket. 
Haddington Thursday April 7, 1836. Vexation on vexation! The Board of Trustees have met and made me no appropriation. I must wait another week, the victim of their delay. Having earned my small wages with much labor and an.ticipated our short vacation with hopes of spending it at home, I must now earn my salary again by embarras[s]ments and insufferable delay. 
Friday April 8, 1836. Taking up plants for Capt. Jackson of Union College. By the way, what a queer little man the Prof. is --enthusiastic in every thing he undertakes, a great lover of gardening and mathematics, of little dignity, great good sense and a quick penetrating mind. Capt. and I were always great friends and on especial good terms while I was in College. 
Philadelphia Saturday April 9, 1836. Boarding or rather staying at Mr. Saud's, brother-in-law to Mr. Dagg --an excellent family, friendly, pious, and agreeable. The ice in the Hudson is not broken up. Winter swirls, infringes upon the territory of spring and protracts his stay beyond all customary bounds. 
ZII 
Sunday April 10, 1836. Heard Mr. Gillette. Pleased with his evident marks of improvement. Last Thursday he was re-elected pastor of the church for an indefinite length of time, not however without the strenuous efforts of a disaffected minority to the contrary. His situation is rendered peculiarly unpleasant by this division of sentiment although it is to be hoped that the heat of opposition may cease when the excitement has subsided. 
Monday April 11, 1836. Good news from the North. The Hudson is open 
and a boat arrived in New York from Albany on Saturday.This day must be 
his dapeculiarly lucky, for tonight I received an order from Mr. H.G. Jones for one dollars hundred dollars on the Germantown Bank which he tells me Brother Hig-gins will will cash. Must enclose thirty dollars to Mr. Collom for board. 
Tuesday April 12, 1836. Called on Brother Higgins, mentioned above, to get the money which I doubted not would be forthcoming. "But lo and behold" r am foiled again. The good man, a member of the Board of Trustees, could not cash the check because he must wait one dav before it can be collected! An accommodating friend! a well-wisher to the interests of Haddington . College! who will let her instructors suffer for what would cost him but the interest of one hundred dollars for one day. 
All along the way between Philadelphia and New York Wednesday, April 13, 1836. Snow, rain, and sleet, cold and unutterably disagreeable. What comfortable things these railroad cars are! So thought I as Sis and I rode from Bordentown to Amboy. The top of our vehicle leaked like a sieve so that I was forced to carry an umbrella. Eight of us were packed where six ought to have been plus two children, baskets, bandboxes and budgets. Add to this the music of their shrill pipes, the whizzing of steam and the clattering of our crazy coach and who wonders that we all had sour looks. 
Jersey and Staten Island are covered with snow. Rain fell in torrents when we touched the wharf at New York. Every carriage engaged in a moment. Hotels full to overflowing and no other alternative but to walk to Uncle's through the "slush" and rain. Did you ever travel with a lady and band-boxes in a storm? Try it if you never did, a noble subject for the exercise of patience. 
New York City Thursday April 14, 1836. A lovely day. Surely nothing ever presented a greater contrast than this with yesterday. Cousin Mehitable is dead, an humble, devoted, pious girl. Her disposition was sweet and her piety preeminent. Happy Saint! she is now at rest. 
Started at five o'clock on board the Erie for Albany. 
J(Y 
Schenectady Friday April 15, 1836. Came home in a snowstorm. Snow six inches deep. Father and Mother in good health, the greatest of temporal blessings. Whose love so constant and pure as a parent's! It is pleasant after stemming the torrent of this selfish world wherein the face of no true friend has beamed upon you for half a year to take the hand that welcomes you to a heart as constant as the daily sun. He is to be pitied who knows not a mother's joy or a father's pride. 
Saturday April 16, 1836. Here I find Jerry Eaton, my old friend and classmate, preaching to these sinners in Schenectady. Although he reads his sermon, which is heresy in our church, still I cannot say but what I am 
not  better  pleased  to  see  him doing  so  now than  otherwise.  A young  
minister must write much to acquire a habi t of correctness.  
Sunday  April  17, 1836.  Much  pleased  with  this  specimen  of Jere's  

preaching; indeed he writes well. His sermons are rather of the didactic than pathetic character. The wounds which the church have received from Mr. Graves are nearly healed and under the guidance of a good pastor it would resume its march. 
Monday April 18, 1836. I find nothing about "Old Union" to interest me; everything is gone that once made it dear, if I except a few of the Profs. Capt. Jackson, who first gave me a taste for the Mathematics, and friend Savage are the only remains of my former intimacies. Ned is a talented young man, universally beloved and respected. In the whole range of my acquaintance I know of none more promising. 
Albany Tuesday April 19, 1836. Visited "Bob Strong," my old College chum, talked over past incidents, dwelt with rapture on reminiscences, and mutually exposed our plans of future action. What hinders that we should hold as honorable [a] station among men as we did in our College course? Nothing is beyond our reach that hard labor will not bring nigh. 
Wednesday April 20, 1836. Witnessed the funeral procession of Gen'l. North whose body was escorted to the limits of the city by the Legislature, citizens and military --a splendid pageantry accompanied by the deafening roar of the minute gun and the sound of martial music. Sic transit &c. 
Schenectady Thursday April 21, 1836. Virtue has her own reward even in this world, in 
713 
the approbation of conscience and the confidence of men. Vice on the contrary merits no esteem. 
Friday April 22, 1836. These vacations are the very bane of our schools. So at least I appreciate them in regard to myself. I consider it far more proper to apportion a fair amount of labor to each student, giving him no recess till age calls him to active duties in life, than to tolerate this intermittent plan of study and play. 
Saturday April 23, 1836. Who never read Burns' Saturday Night? Let such an one be ignorant of its beauties no longer. For simplicity, purity of sentiment and truth no poem can excel it. 
Sunday April 24, 1836. No hours of this day are filled with more acceptable service to God than those spent in the Sabbath School. To feel the happiness of a faithful S. S. teacher is desirable beyond what we often imagine. 
Monday April 25, 1836. At three o'clock yesterday afternoon, just as the bells began to ring for church, a fire broke out in State Street opposite Maiden Lane. The wind being high at the time from the west, eight or ten á buildings were instantly in a blaze. Not one of them was worth the ground on which they stood or could not have been well spared. Like many other rookeries in and about this city, they were chiefly built of wood and had seen the storms of many winters. The unhappy tenants are only to be 
pitied. 
Tuesday April 26, 1836. A virtuous youth gives assurance of honored and respected old age; but vice destroys all hopes either of wealth or distinction. 

Wednesday April 27, 1836. Drunke[n]ness is artificial madness. It destroys both body and soul as the furious hurricane sweeps the defenseless habitation of man. Alas, that man should put an enemy down his throat to steal away his brains! Why should not the inebriate be recognized as an insane person and dealt with accordingly? Does he do no harm? Is there not a daily record of his crimes and excesses? 
Thursday April 28,1836. Everything is on the move in our country towards improvement. Railroads, canals, steamboats and every means of communication are successfully employed which can facilitate intercourse and exchange of commodities; but is religion and morality keeping pace with the rapid advancement of our resources and population? Whilst thousands are running into money speculations, whilst the whole world is rushing to the fertile prairies of the West, do they carry true piety with them? 
Friday April 29, 1836. The mind of man, like the key which is seldom used, soon gets rusty or, like the flint unstruck, emits no sparks. Place a young man of common ambition and talent among the society of his equals, let him see the aspiring flights of his elders in literature and learning and if he may not be induced to seek eminence in his profession truly all motives to excel with such an one are hopeless. Oh! how many promising men has the siren song of pleasure or the benumbing stupor of ease enticed from the path of greatness and exellence. 
Saturday April 30, 1836. Short sentences are often better than long sermons, for a word to the wise is sufficient, but fools will not profit by volumes. 
Sunday May 1, 1836. A Mr. Simons preached, a man of considerable abilities but little mental culture. It is a sin that powerful minds should lie thus unimproved whilst the world is calling a powerful and efficient ministry. When will Baptists learn? 
North River Monday May 2, 1836. This eve[ning] Mrs. Treat, Mary Ann and myself, together with Mr. Eaton, went on board the New York boat. Found Callahan, an acquaintance of mine in College. Poor fellow, he has been sick through the winter and is now returning to his field in Boston. His threadbare coat and sunken eyes bespoke the real state of his health and pocket. Who can paint the miseries of a poor student? 

New York and Philadelphia Tuesday May 3, 1836. Obliged to wait in New York from six till ten for the boat. Cruised round town, down to the "Burnt District, " through dirty streets, dirty and filthy, up Broadway, round the Park, down to the Battery until, having escaped being run over by the omnibuses, drays, and [having] fairly fatigued all the ladies out, we were glad to go aboard the boat. Fine day. 
Philadelphia friends well. Oh Horrid! that dismal Haddington again, 'tis enough to make one sick to think of this pedagoging life. Saw Dr. Welch &c&c. 
Haddington College Wednesday, May 4, 1836. Jerry Eaton, whq is to be my associate this term, with myself and baggage took omnibus at nine for headquarters of all that is literary and learned! Nature looks beautiful at Haddington. Many trees in blossom, the air perfumed. Delightful! delightful! 
Thursday May 5, 1836. Called a few boys together at the ringing of the bell, hardly a quorum. Faculty held a meeting for the purpose of assigning our different departments of labor. I have the Classical students to teach and a class in Algebra. 
Friday May 6, 1836. We have obtained a room and board at Esq. Abraham's for three dollars per week. How do you like Pennsylvanians? I must confess that I am not particularly fond of many of their ways although on the whole I have not much to complain of. 
Haddington Institution (that is to be a College when they can make such) Saturday May 7, 1836. The Philadelphians differ as much from New 
Yorkers in their characters as the Quakers do from the Yankees. Am tired 
of writing "Walked to town." "Perambulate" won't do, "footed it" is vulgar,' 
'pan my soul think I will coin a new word. Whose better right? I 
pedestinated to the city today. Saw nothing very new, strange or alarming. 
Sunday May 8, 1836. Some of Mr. Gillette's church members have more of the Devil in them than Religion. There's too much chaff among the wheat. The old maids talk slander and the old men quarrel about doctrines; some pray and others do not. In fine, it is a hard church to manage in every point. 
716 
Monday May 9, 1836. I cannot contrive why the Trustees located their Institution in this dull, lifeless little "nigger" village. It would seem that they had followed the example of the founders of many of our other seminaries which have to put all their success to the credit of their patiory [?] and nothing to the score of location. 
Tuesday May 10, 1836. Who wonders that everybody is mad for money? for that buys distinction, that is the chief good; it secures deference and esteem, it is the only badge of aristocracy, it gives us universal power over the minds and wills of our fellows. Oh how corrupt is public opinion! 
Wednesday May 11, 1836. There is a class of men who belong to the family of going-to-go, who are always on the point of doing something worthy of themselves. Their mouths are full of good resolutions but some trifling circumstance hinders their accomplishment. They are to wait tili.some unforeseen event shall throw them into another situation where they imagine they shall have both leisure and inclination to perfect some great design. Oh! vain delusive hope! Seize the moments as they fly. 
Thursday May 12, 1836. In imagination I often liken this world to to an ant hill covered with its busy inhabitants hurrying to and fro in busy occupation. The analogy will not hold in all points, it is true, but in the general features of activity and [the] learning population, there is no disparity. How will the judgement find men? 
Friday May 13, 1836. 
THE PAGE IS COMPLETELY BLANK [as are the 
following five pages, a period from May 12 to 
June 5, 1836] 
Sunday June 5, 1836. The thirteenth day of the storm during all of which time we have had more or less rain and have seen the sun but once. No money, therefore cannot ride; lots of mud and rain, therefore cannot walk to the city. 
"Oh! for a closer walk with God, 
A calm and heavenly frame." 
My soul and desires are as restless as the tempest-tos't waters. I can never be an eminently pious man --never --never. Yet how can I do otherwise than love God, that kind parent, bounteous benefactor, merciful sovereign sovereign, and injured Deity? 
7(7 
How can my affections be always estranged from that disinterested, blessed Being who fell a martyr to the enmity of man and died that I might live. 
Of all sins preserve me from the vile debasing crime of ingratitude which although it be not amenable to human laws is counted in the sight of heaven a capital offense. Ingratitude to God! I mean the black sin of Hell. 
Monday June 6, 1836. Rain for the fourteenth day in succession! Received a letter from Mother. What a blessed thing to have a good mother! whose moral and restraining influence upon the mind shall be salutary. 
Her precepts are like gems of untold value, making wise the heart and subduing the passions to virtue. Her sacrifices are those of pure affection, of unchanging love which lives when all other ties are broken. 
Tuesday June 7, 1836. One of the bulls which sometimes occurs among blockheads is the following perpetrated by a scholar of man lately from Philadelphia: Hae urget lupus, hac canis angit . Translation. Horace. "He crams down the wolf and the dog swallows him"!! Admirable ! Thomas, thou art a promising you th. 
A little sun and abundance of rain. This is surely unprecedented weather. The roads are quite as bad as in the spring, or pretty nigh at least. 
Wednesday June 8, 1836. Today at twelve o'clock the clouds broke away and we were favored once more with a sight of the sun. 
Superanda omnis fortuna ferendo est. Virgil. This is a noble sentiment, worthy of a place in every heart. The practice of it adds a dignity to poor human nature and elevates us to a superiority of rank seldom attained by individuals of our race; it assimilates us to gods, if I may speak after the manner of heathen philosophy, and fortifies us to bear with patient endurance those ills of life which by the short-sightedness of human reason cannot be avoided. 
Thursday June 9,-1836. It is impossible to read Socrates' memoirs, written by Xenophon, without admiring the purity of morals which they inculcate, the examples of forbearance and simplicity of style. Socrates was worthy of another age and a better fate in which his principles might have been better appreciated and his death might have been bewailed by the united voice of his country. 
Friday June 10, 1836. How clearly he urges a God from nature! His triumphant refutation of the skeptical notions of Aristodemus would have done honor to any theologian of the present day and inculcates a morality 
718 
not inconsistent with the purest Christian doctrine. 
Saturday June 11, 1836. I was astonished when I first read Socrates' evidences of a God from nature. They exhibit such a similarity to the arguments of the present teaching of Divinity that I could scarcely believe they were written two thousand years ago. If merely the light of nature can teach a man such noble truths, what might we not have reasonably expected had Socrates been blessed with the Revelation of a God from His Son? 
Philadelphia Sunday June 12, 1836. Walked to the city. Heard Mr. Gillette --he is father of a little daughter! Another child of mortality! What ls this world coming to? Generations go and come like the ebb and flow of a great ocean. Is every soul that is born into this world a new and original spirit? What a numberless multitude, then, will finally stand at the court of heaven. 
It surely is little to be wondered at that the doctrine of Metempsychosis should have made its appearance among the philosophers of ancient days; at least some features of that doctrine, for surely what wise man of the old schools, unenlightened as he was by Divine light, could have but wondered at the unlimited increase of human beings and been led to suspect that the soul must have inhabited successive bodies? "But I pass." N.B. The "domlnie" has a pestiferous set of old maids in his church 
who are the most inveterate critics that ever existed. longer than an ass's ears.  Their tongues are  
Haddington Monday June,  13, 1836.  Zimmerman  observed  that  "There  is always  

something in a man against whom the world exclaims, at whom everyone throws a stone, and on whose character an attempt is made to fix a thousand crimes without being able to fix one." 
Tuesday June 14, 1836. It ls seldom that a more appaling picture of human depravity comes before the public than the case of Robinson of New York, a young man only nineteen years of age who deliberately murdered his miss with a hatchet. His trial occupied the forepart of last week, and although he was acquitted, yet whoever reads the evidence then given can but be led to the conclusion that he was the offender. 
Such a scene of disgusting lewdness and debauchery as was exposed by this case I hope will never again be seen by modest eyes. It is enough to make virtuous hearts bleed to witness the ruin of virtue and beauty in our cities. If anything can make a man hate his species, it is the indulgence of his brutal passions. 
719 
Wednesday June 15, 1836. While reviewing what I wrote yesterday and reflecting that I am naturally exposed to the same gulf of ruin, that my heart and passions are capable of leading me to as disgusting excesses as others and that I am as liable to become a brute in all my feelings as the most abandoned profligate, I am overwhelmed with the goodness of God who has withheld me from the pit of destruction. 
Thursday, June 16, 1836. Beautiful weather refreshing breeses. How strange and unnatural are those almost daily news of war and blood-shed. Lately we heard of six hundred men being slaughtered in one battle in Texas, and now across the Atlantic from unhappy Spain comes [word?] of a similar import. 
Man cannot forget to hate his brother but dooms him to destruction to satisfy his ambitition or wreak an insatiable vengeance. Some face the cannon's mouth for glory. 
Friday June 17, 1836. The flattering accounts which are almost daily received of the growing importance of the "Far West" have filled me with an uncommon desire of seeing this garden of America. Its future importance indeed cannot be questioned when we consider the vast territory, the exuberance of the soil, its advantages for commerce and the immense tide of emigration which sets towards this region from almost every civilized country in the known world. 
One hundred years will show there a mighty empire --swayed, it is to be hoped, by the virtue and intelligence of its inhabitants, its rivers and lakes skirted with villages and towns from which will be seen the chapel spire pointing heavenward and the schoolhouse standing [by] its side. I know not why, but for ... 
Saturday June 18, 1836. . ... more than a year my mind has been secretly and continually drawn towards that region so that scarcely a day passes in which my attention is not directed towards that growing country. It seems as though I ought to be there exerting what little talent I have forá enlightening that destitute people in religion and education. The Atlantic States are comparatively well supplied with teachers. Our colleges are yearly sending out thousands of young men whose labors are greatly needed in the West to counteract the spirit of infidelity and dispel the clouds of ignorance to which, it is to be hoped, the eastern states will never be exposed. 
Sunday June 19, 1836. Extremely hot day. Grateful showers in afternoon. Heard a young Brother Allison, lately entered the Institution, make the 
72.0 
first attempt to preach. Pretty well done. 
But what folly to set such [an] inexperienced tyro a speaking! who can scarcely speak two sentences without blundering. What else can they do? No young man can receive the benefit of theological instruction, unless he has a license to preach, and shall we say to such, "You shall not speak in public?" when their churches have sanctioned the display of their ignorance and even required them to preach? 
Our Baptist people are doing much for the education of their ministry: Yet it will require years, I fear, to raise the standard of education to the point which it should attain. The opinion is too prevalent even now at the South and West that an educated ministry is prejudicial to the advancement [ of] true religion. The reign of ignorance in the minds of men 
á is nearly over, and that a gospel minister may be useful now he must know more than the simple rudiments of an English education; he must be fortified with weapons of wisdom and experience. 
Monday June 20, 1836. I was speaking yesterday of the education of our ministers. Today I will mention a fact which has lately come under my observation in relation to the superficial knowledge which is acquired at many of our "Institutions" by young men áwho are preparing for the ministry. 
When I first came to Haddington, there was in the Institution a young man by the name of Kutchin. He had talents of the highest order, was fluent in speech and had much of the set phraseology of the pulpit at his tongue's end. On the Sabbath he invariably went abroad to some of our little country churches to preach. He was praised by all the old sisters until he was made to believe himself somebody of more than ordinary importance; add to this also the little knowledge which he gained at the Institution and who wonders that his young heart was proof against the assaults of flattery and literary pride. 
He pursued this course till last winter, still growing daily in his own estimation, when he left for the purpose of settling down in the world and taking the pastoral care of a church. After preaching a few months to a congregation which at first was delighted with him but subsequently became very much disaffected, he called a council to examine and ordain him. They met and rejected the poor fellow, who now stands in no very enviable position, neither beloved by his congregation nor recognized by the clergy. 
Tuesday June 21, 1836. Man is emphatically a restive being. Change is the spice of his life without which it would be tasteless and insipid. "Qui fit Maecenas &c." may as well be asked at the present day as when Horace lived. 

If we have no good reason for a change in our conditions, why then we can make such as will satisfy our own minds and this will be sufficient to authorize a removal. In my own case, there appears in my own mind a good and sufficient reason for a contemplated change. 
I have now been at Haddington Institution one year and labored hard, been vexed by the delays of the Board times without number and received but a slender salary. Yet this should not determine me to leave if I could see in the friends of the Institution a disposition to patronize it and make it what it ought to be. But I cannot see any of these redeeming qualities. 
One member of the Board of Trustees has already taken his two sons to another school and a second Trustee is about to do the same in regard to his two boys. 
These are only two instances of their indifference to the good of our school; many more might be named but it will be useless. Suffice it to say r am determined to leave unless some very favorable change takes place in our affairs. In all probability I can have a Tutorship in Union College next year, and if I get the appointment I shall doubtless go. 
Wednesday June 22, 1836. Mr. Dagg will in all probability leave this part of the country some time during the summer for Tuscaloosa, Alabama at which place he has received an appointment as principal of an Academy (female) with a salary of two thousand dollars. Like myself, he has despaired of seeing the cooperation of our denomination in building up an Institution here and must therefore transfer his valuable labors to some other field. He is a self-made man in the fullest sense of the term, but nevertheless is inferior to few of those who have been dubbed with the pompous title of D. D. His mind is of the very first order, well-trained, strong, and penetrating. His complexion is dark, his eye bright and forehead remarkably high and prominent. In fine, he is a splendid man. 
His afflictions are many. and trying, being both lame, weak-eyed and scarcely able to speak from an affection[affliction?] of his throat but, by means of his son John, who acts as amanuensis, his usefulness is in a measure extended. Mr. Dagg is amply qualified to teach a class of theological students, but I doubt whether he is fitted to take charge of a large institution, not merely from his bodily infirmities but also from his want of energy and "go-aheadness." Mrs. Dagg is an uncommonly smart and capable woman. 
Thursday June 23, 1836. Unprecedented weather --cold and rainy, wind no'theast. Have a fire in our room and wear overcoats. Chattering teeth, blue noses, shivering limbs, sour faces, cross looks, cold fingers and red cheeks. Jerry Eaton and myself take all the comfort which two bachelors can take who have every comfort of life but a scolding wife and squalling brats. We talk of all the scenes of our past intimacy and contrive plans for future success; we laugh and sing; we pipe and fiddle; we smoke and chat. Finally, all that can make life pleasant we share mutually. Happy days! 

Friday June 24, 1836. Most of the time for two months past northeast winds have been prevailing to a great degree and it seems now that we are about to have a repetition of the twenty days' storm. We have a fire every day in our room --without it we should not be comfortable. 
The whole Freshmen Class is sick of the bilious fever! Strange coincidence indeed! The above class contains one member, a young man of very good talents and industry,---Nathan L., son of H. G. Jones. 
I have often been asked by northern men what the Literary Department of Pennsylvania University was doing and have often been obliged to answer, as my questions have been by citizens of Philadelphia, that about seventy-five boys chiefly from the city are there taught, but that the whole concern is by no means in a prosperous situation. Inefficiency marks all their movements. 
Like most other state institutions, neither the Trustees nor Faculty nor the public in general feel that interest in it which they would in a private or denominational establishment. 
Philadelphia Saturday June 25, 1836. Sky overcast all day, rain in the evening. Walked to the city. A letter from friend E. Hutchinson of Newton Theo[logical] Inst[itute]. Last evening the Literary Society connected with our school held a public debate which did ample justice to the young members thereof. Subject; "Was Elizabeth justifiable in the Execution of Mary Queen of Scots"? The audience, ladies especially, decided the question in the negative. The influence of these public discussions is decidedly beneficial, not only to those who hear, but to those who engage in them. 
I venture to say that the young men who have been the disputants this evening have learned more than by the ordinary course of instruction in our academies they would have learned in months. 
These elementary societies are the nurseries of eloquence, the schools where our great divines, lawyers and statesmen learn their first rudiments and develop their ripening minds. 
Sunday June 26, 1836. Rain fell in torrents during the day. No meetings -.a very long, long day. 
It may be asked whether it is necessary that the Christian, because he is deprived of the preached gospel, must necessarily be deprived of that comfort that flows from religion. Surely not. Yet a cold professor, one who 
723 
has been accustomed to spend his Sabbaths at church, feels the greatest misery in being obliged to commune with himself and review his sins in the retreat of his room. Such an exercise, however, is not unprofitable; it sometimes brings the wanderer back to God and with much prayer and penitence restores him to the right way. 
Monday June 27, 1836. The day closed in splendor. After a week of cold, foggy weather accompanied with frequent rains, it is pleasant to hail the pleasant sun once more. 
I was thinking this evening of --of--I don't know what has not been in my cranium. Dream after dream arose in my mind as I sat in my big-armed chair all alone, (Jerry was at his singing school.) and I at last arose vexed with myself for indulging in such fleeting visions and with fortune[?} that some of them could not be true. I dreamed of beauty, of wealth, of happiness, of honor, health and long life, but oh! how few may I realize. I may wake ere long in sad disappointment. 
"Teach me so to number my days that I may apply my heart unto wisdom." 
Tuesday June 28, 1836. Wrote a dunning letter to the Financial Committee of the Institution. If it does not stir them up, am resolved to leave their employ forthwith. Have not had a cent these two months which has not been obtained from some friend as a loan. 
I was struck this evening with the manifest design which Providence had in not permitting this country to be discovered till the healthful principles of the Reformation were well disseminated in Europe. 
What would have been the consequence if America had been known eight hundred years ago? Moral desolation, it may justly be supposed, would have covered this whole land in its length and breadth. At this moment the Pope would have had his throne planted upon the everlasting Alleganies and all this mighty empire would have bowed to his scepter. But how manifest are the dealings of Providence towards this New World. Instead of being the strong hold of the Beast, it is the home of Christianity from which God is sending out healthful streams into all the earth. 
Wednesday June 29, 1836. It is related of Erasmus that, having crossed the water to visit a certain Abbot, they conversed on the subject of Transsubstantiation when the latter made use of the following expression respecting the real flesh of the Savior in the Eucharist: "Crede quod edis et edis." --"Believe that you eat and you do eat." Upon taking leave, Erasmus borrowed a horse of the Abbot to convey him to the sea shore but instead of returning the animal he took him on board the vessel and sent to his owner the following Latin doggerel; "Tu meministi Quod nuper scripsisti De corpore Christi 11Crede quad edis, et edis" Nunc tibi rescribo De tuo palfrido 

-Crede quot habes, et habes. 11 ( Newspaper) 
Thursday June 30, 1836. Last Saturday when I was in town I read a long letter published in the Pennsylvania Courier & Inquirer announcing the successful experiment of Dr. Nott's steamboat Novelty in navigating the Hudson with anthracite coal. The writer spoke in the most confident manner respecting the trial, and dates from this time a new era in the history of steam navigation, placing the Doctor's name beside that of Watt and Fulton. "In twelve month's time, 11 says he, "steamships will be on their way to Europe, and a new channel will be opened for the immense beds of coal which lie in the bowels of Pennsylvania." 
If all that the letter contains be true, and I see no reason to disbelieve it, the Doctor has certainly added a new laurel to his wreath of fame and established a name as an experimental philosopher which no one can gainsay or detract from. He is a great man in every sense of the word; he is a practical man and instead of forming new theories and vain speculations like most other men of his station, he is adding new facilities to commerce, safety to the means of travel, and comfort to the rigors of a northern winter. 
Friday July 1, 1836. Extremely warm. This is the season of hay.making, the sweetest and healthiest exercise that a student can engage in, yet very few of our lazy would-be scholars can be persuaded to partake of this luxury which invigorates the body and gives a healthy tone to the whole system. Vigorous exercise to the student is like electricity in its effects, causing a thrill of pleasure to circulate through every vein. 
Daily exercise may become a habit and as difficult to [be] refrained from as any other, so that from being irksome at first it finally becomes our delight and as desirable as even the supply of daily food. Such has been my experience. 
Is not the voice which speaks from the premature graves of thousands of our literary men loud enough to alarm the living? Are not the pale, haggard looks and feeble health of our eminent men a sufficient testimony of the danger of studying without exercise? This suicidal prac.tice, for it is worthy of no better name, is generally the effect of laziness. I believe this to be the fact in nine cases out of ten; my own experience and observation corroborates this assertion. It is not from an enthusiastic devotion to books, as many think, that all the lamentable evils of literary life, so much deplored, do flow; it is not so much owing to the intimate connection of the mind and body by which, when the one is fatigued, the other sympathizes. But the prime cause may be traced to a settled and fixed habit of bodily inaction. I never yet pitied a student who had lost his health by study. True, I might deplore his folly and stupidity, but as for those sympathies in suffering which arise from afflictions beyond the reach of human wisdom to foresee, they never entered my heart. If I ever felt for the sufferer, it was a mingled emotion of pity and indignation. 

Philadelphia Saturday July 2, 1836. Warm day. Walked to the city. Had not money enough to pay the postage of a letter. The Financial Committee are abundant in good promises, but no money is forthcoming. My soul is continually vexed by this dilatory, procrastinating policy. I am out of heart, and have no remaining patience left to me. James Madison, ex-President of the United States, died on the 28th of 
á June, "full of years and of honor." ~ Mary had a letter from home in which was an account of Wilson's death --Samuel Wilson, member of the present Senior [Class] of Union College. He broke a blood vessel while singing and lived but four hours. How soon were his hopes nipped in the tender [bud?] by the frosts of autumn. Young, talented and full of anticipation, death the destroyer of all things has prostrated him in the dust wheri he was just on the point of going forth into the world. Wilson was a man of considerable taste and talents in music, of which he was a devoted lover. For several years previous to his death he had been in the habit of getting up concerts for charitable purposes in Schenectada and did as much to improve the taste for sacred music in that city as any other man who preceded him; nay more. The churches owe him a debt of gratitude. ( + All a hoax! Wilson lives yet . March 18 3 7.) Saw Brother Roberts, the missionary to China sent out by the Mississippi Valley Mission Society. He has given his property amounting to $30,000 into their hands and left all to benefit the perishing millions of China What noble philanthropy is this! what magnanimity! what moral sublimity is exhibited by these missionaries who take their lives in their hands and leave all for Christ's sake and fallen man. Their reward shall be abundant in the life to come, blessings and honor and an everlasting crown of glory. Oh! how little have we to complain who dwell in tents of ease ! 
Sunday July 3, 1836. Hot sultry day. No meeting in the village. Staid within doors. A man without the privilege of attending church becomes both a heathen and a clown. In a manner he gets a distaste for the day which is so long and irksome and spends it either in listless sloth or profanes its sacred hours by wandering about in quest of amusement and pleasure. 

The Christian finds his graces declining and that quick sensibility for the honor of God and that trembling fear to sin against him gradually undermined. His relish for heavenly things becomes vitiated, he shrinks from the performance of his religious duties, prayer is neglected, self.examination is a disagreeable task. Christian company and religious conversation are seldom courted. In fine, the humble believer loses his humility and conforms to the conduct and maxims of the world. Deliver me from this awful state. 
Philadelphia Monday July 4, 1836. Charming day. Jerry and I walked to the city to see how the city folks keep the day we venerate. At our first entrance into town lay a boozy negro dancing upon the bridge; the next evidence of Independence was various flags above the thousands of grog shops with.such devices and mottoes [as] "Liberty," "Washington, "The American Eagle and the "Stars and Stripes." What does all this miserable parade mean? "Liberty" for what? To drink unto drunkeness? Was Washington the patron of the grog shop? 
There was heard the roar of artillery and musketry, and the graceful movements of numerous military companies were seen marching to the sound of soul-stirring music. These things were appropriate to the day. 
The custom, which has for some years been increasing, of introducing party celebrations attended with political speeches and dinners, Sabbath School exhibitions and temperance conventions, instead of the appropriate military parade and patriotic speeches, is much to be deplored, not because of themselves they are wrong, but because they are entirely foreign from the subjects which this day ought to awaken in our minds. They weaken our veneration for its consecrated hours and, by turning our minds from the excesses which too often are indulged on this day, we almost lose sight of the advantages which arise from these celebrations. 
Tuesday July 5, 1836. Heat excessive, oppressive. But few of the boys have got over the Fourth yet --the consequence of holidays in the middle of the term. One comes back with his arm in a sling, another has burnt his hands with crackers, a third is sick from eating pineapples, and all have a positive distaste for recommencing their ordinary duties. Where's the remedy for such casualties? Keep them at their books? That would be profanation. 
Wednesday July 6, 1836. Congress adjourned on the Fourth after a session 
727 
of more than six months --a session which has been characterized by more uproar and angry disputation than any former one since the adoption of the Federal Constitution. It would seem that the Representatives of the People, forgetting the will and interests of their constituents, had met at Washington more for the purpose of party collision and of showing their array of strength and numbers than to subserve the general good of the country. 
Every measure that appears before Congress assumes a party character at once; if it meets the approval of the leading men among the ranks of the administration its adoption is heeded; otherwise, whatever be its merits, it is crushed as detrimental to the Party. 
Moreover, vice --open, barefaced profligacy --characterizes many of our Congressmen to whom we entrusted the interests of the Great Republic. The Sabbath is desecrated, profanity is common and drunkenness by no means seldom. What safety have have our political institutions when profligacy abounds among those who make our laws? What waters do we expect from a corrupt fountain? 
Would that the people would open their eyes to the excesses of these men and return such hereafter as are noted not for political juggling but for virtue and patriotism. 
Thursday July 7th 1836. The Florida War has been carried on now for about six months with scarcely any degree of success. It would seem that very impotent measures have been put into effect against the Indians who, emboldened by our dalliance, have become bold and strengthened in their predatory warfare. The Gen'l (Scott) is charged with want of energy and his movements have been severely criticized and his command is decidedly unpopular, particularly with the Floridians! 
Friday July 8, 1836. Besides this, the Creeks have shown the Alabamians a speck of war during the past summer. By the by, may it not be a mooted point whether it be just in us to remove the savages beyond the Mississippi, and have they not a sufficient pretence to take up arms? I approve not of their butcheries but at the same time must think that if ever a people were just in taking up arms, the despised and injured Indians are that people. 
Why so many hundreds rushing to the aid of Texas whilst the poor Florida Indian, who has fought for his hunting grounds and cabins, is doomed to destruction? Why [do] no champions stand forth for their relief? Still, it may be expedient; but certainly it looks unjust to remove them without their consent. To have a separate and distinct government within a state must necessarily subject the people to great inconvenience, not only so far as the danger of collision goes, but also in the very serious obstacle which would be opposed to the administration of justice, from this circumstance that such a nation would afford an asylum for criminals. The Indian surely needs our commiseration. We ought to deal kindly with him, for to him we owe an immense debt which time hardly be able to cancel. 

Saturday July 9, 1836. Hottest weather we have seen this summer, 
melting! roasting hot! 
What's the best method of teaching boys Algebra? or in other words how can boys be made to reason correctly by mathematical demonstration? I have ever found some difficulty in making youngsters sufficiently interested in Algebra to give it that attention which is necessary even for a limited knowledge of this beautiful science. If I gave them problems, they felt a difficulty in translating them into Algebraic language and, with all my exertions, they made but little progress. 
Of late I have adopted the following plan. Each scholar has this for his task, to make three or four problems each day and present them to the class for solution. An emulation is created among the class to excel and puzzle their fellows by the difficulty of their questions. Every one is prompt and ready. I like the plan much, anticipate considerable improvement. 
Philadelphia Sunday July 10, 1836. Charming day. Arose at four-thirty o'clock this morning and walked to the city. 
How delightful to inflate the lungs with fresh pure air, to refresh the ear with the early music of the grove and drink in the beauties of the morning from every object around. There is a self -satisfaction in early rising which the bed-ridden are strangers to. There is a glow upon the cheek etc. 
"Dominie" made a sort of Fourth of July speech this morning, quite passable. Not particularly pleased. P. M. Heard Dr. Breckenridge at Mr. Boardman's church deliver a learned essay on the Empire of Christ. All good and spoken with some effect, but then was there not too much stiffness and formality? Why cannot ministers be as much in earnest in pleading the cause of Christ, as an attorney for the cause of his client? There is surely an infinite disparity between the merits of the two cases. 
Monday July 11, 183 6. The mightiest of all kingdoms is that of the mind to sway, which is the perfection of human government, surpassing the mere employment of brute force as far as the heavens are above the earth. Few men--very few --have ever attained this desirable object, although most of us have tried. Man is a puppet who dances and manoevres upon the stage by the aid of wires; he is under the influence of others. "Ut nervis alienis mobile lignum." 

Thursday July 12, 1836. Dividium facti qui coepit, habet. --Horace. A motto which all experience confirms. 
All actions require more or less thought and design, and as the minds and resolutions of man are eternally varying, and he is continually fluctuating between hope and fear, forever seeing reasons for change in his premeditated plans, there is certainly good cause for saying that to commence an action is to half finish it. 
Wednesday July 13, 1836. "Oh, cives, cives, quaerenda pecunia primum." -.Horace. Upon my faith, I am half inclined to believe this ironical verse of Horace if the want of money is such an eternal bore as it lately has been found to be. 
"Give me neither poverty nor riches, " says Agur, but surely if the good man had to choose between the two extremes I am more than half inclined to think that he would have made riches his portion. 
[Thursday] July 14, 1836. Are the evils of wealth more than those of poverty? Is not this question often asked and triumphantly answered in the affirmative? 
But the contrary must be the truth, for why? Because indigence is more universal and, as affluence incites to the gratification of lusts and the successful career of vice, so poverty tempts a man to lie and steal for the mere necessaries of life. Oh! how many thousands pine in wretchedness where one revels in abundance. There is no comparison; it is folly to institute one. 
I would pray as Agur did, but of the two, give riches. 
Friday July 15, 1836 . Time ambles, trots, or walks according as ou.r employment is interesting. He that would do much in this short life must take time by the foretop. 
Philadelphia Saturday, July 16, 1836. Fine cool day, delightful "pedestinating." Received fifty dollars of Mr. Jones on account of the Institution last Thursday. 
"Thanks for this miracle, it is no less 
Than money to the pennyless." 
Fifty dollars in my purse. Have not [chimed?] for three long months or more. On Saturdays, Market Street in Philadelphia is a curiosity. The whole length of it is full of eatables --butchers, hucksters and big-bellied women. At every step you run against a servant girl with her market basket or stumble over some one's wares and vegetables which are scattered over the sidewalks. Here is a barrow full of puppies, there shambles of meat. One is crying, "Charcoal, charcoal" in a hoarse voice, whilst a female is squeaking to the top of shrill pipes, "Fine raspberries, Fine raspberries." 

But who can describe the market day as it is? Go to Philadelphia and see for your own edification. In faith, the Philadelphians are the best livers on the Continent. 
Philadelphia Sunday July 17, 1836. Clear, serene; cool wind. Heard Jere S. Eaton in Dominie Gillett's pulpit --quite good sermon. A secession of seventy-two members, I am told, has taken place from Sansom Street Church. If this will reconcile all parties, it is well, but I fear still that the elements will not be hushed without a storm. Ques[tion]. How much religion in all this bickering? 
P. M. Heard Professor Dodge of Princeton Theological Seminary at Mr. Boardman's church, corner of Twelfth and.Walnut Streets. He preached a splendid sermon, i.e. a beautiful piece of composition, chaste, classic and imaginative. It was entirely written and read verbatim, evincing not less talents than deep thought, but indeed I could not help querying within myself, How does this essay compare with the simplicity of our Savior's sermons? Will such elaborate and beautiful compositions reach the hearts of the ignorant and the poor in this world? 
I fear, like myself, that too many heard the intellectual feast but passed by the gospel truths, I fear that such sermons are too much like some French dishes-seasoned and spiced till the viand not known. 
But it may be answered that the sermon suited the congregation -.doubtless, and yet it is pretty certain that one-half did not appreciate it, and the other were either asleep or admiring only the elegance of the diction. 
No preaching ought to suit any audience but intelligible and pointed exposition of truth. 
Monday July 18, 1836. How true it is that a man's mind will rise or fall in strength and intelligence until it becomes level with those minds which come in contact with his: this is true in morals as well as in literature. Hence, and for other reasons, I pronounce "pedagoguing" a miserable business. But ... nemo ... Contentus vivit. That is all true, and yet there may be real causes for discontent with the poor schoolmaster. His station is an important and honorable one, true, but three hundred dollars in money and five hundred in honor is a meager salary, forsooth, and it is 
73/ 
very much to be feared will do little more than find a man in bread and 
meat. 
Tuesday July 19, 1836. Cicero was an eagle, Demosthenes a storm. The one soared and the other thundered. The one rolled along like a peaceful and majestic stream, the other was a Niagara pouring its resistless current over a precipice and dashing its foaming waters in fury at its foot. 
Wednesday July 20, 1836. Unmercifully bored! puzzled! bewildered! per.plexed! with a hog-latin speech which one of my Latinists is preparing for Exhibition. 
0 Cicero! thou would split thy sides with concachinnations if thou wouldst hear its propriety and purity of diction. Oh what grammatical accuracy! What flowing periods! What euphony! What richness of thought! What deepness of sentiment! 
Thursday July 21, 1836. This is the last piece of Latin Composition that I ever want to correct, or rather, to see written by a schoolboy. It is folly, consummate folly, for the ear to be assailed with a set of trash at all our Commencements called Latin and Greek orations, and then what can be said too decided against the pedantic show of the Presidents in talking in Latin to the students on such occasions and conferring their degrees in the same language? It is a barbarous custom entailed upon us from former ages. 
Friday July 22, 1836. Did a man ever come across so great a bore as that of preparing some ten or twelve fellows for an exhibition in declamation? Did one ever take such a fruitless task in hand as that of correcting their compositions? Here we have young men who never wrote a line before and scarcely ever thought a correct idea strewing their crude and unconnected sentiments upon paper. Pohl nonsense! 
Philadelphia Saturday July 23, 1836. Upon my word it is poor business to visit the city, Nothing is gained but much lost every way --time, money, and peace of mind. 
Sunday July 24, 1836. Spencer H. Cove preached in Sansom Street Church. This man is cued up wonderfully. His eloquence is admired by many, but surely if he be such a wonder-maker I cannot rightly see wherein lay his claim to such effect. He is a plain practical speaker, no more. 
Monday July 25, 1836. Mr. Dagg sells his furniture today and leaves near 
732 
the end of the week for Tuscaloosa. The Baptists of Philadelphia certainly do not know their own interests in suffering such a man to leave them when by a proper support they might retain one of the most able theologians in our denomination for the benefit of our youths in the ministry. They will repent too late. Mary Ann visited me today. 
Tuesday July 26,1836. 
"So when a raging fever burns We turn from side to side by turns, But 'tis a poor relief we gain To change the place but keep the pain." 
"Haddington Board" have tried everything but a simple remedy for their embarrassments. They have saddled the Theology Department upon the Literary and that would not do. They have lost by bad management and strove to make good their deficiencies from the Literary Department [and] that would not do. And to finish the whole they now propose to carry the Institute to Germantown. They may do as they please but still our caption will apply to them. They are a weak imbecile set of men --rather, old women. 
Wednesday July 27, 1836. Charming day. Commencement at Union, anniversary of my Alma Mater, awakening a flood of thoughts on the past. One year ago this day my connection with that institution ceased and, from being a candidate for citizenship in the world, I was sent forth to become an actor on its broad stage. I then passed the barrier between youth -.untutored youth--and manhood for an active participation in the world's concerns. How much have I learned by one year's experience? 
A meager little, scarcely worth the naming. 
Thursday July 28, 1836. My short experience in teaching the Classics has been exceeding useful in opening my eyes to some of the injurious habits into which young students fall as it respects their translations. At the beginning they learn to translate verbatim. This mode becomes a habit so firmly fixed that all their future reading does not serve to eradicate the deep-rooted evil. 
Now, whether right or wrong I will not be confident, but it is my impression that tyros should be taught to give free and elegant translations --always expressing the meaning of the original but never being servilely bound by the ridiculous practice of rendering all the Greek and Latin idioms literally into English. 
733 
Friday July 29, 1836. In studying the Greek, boys fail most in the verb, which not only [is] the most difficult part of speech to master in all its parts but also the most beautiful and regular when well understood. I have had a class upon the verb for weeks this time, drilling in every possible way till at last they have come to like it when they have known it better. It is really a beautiful thing and seems so mechanical and philosophical in its construction that it cannot fail to please him who knows it well. 
Philadelphia 
Saturday July 30, 1836. Engaged half this day examining a Greek speech 
for Exhibition --a bore! Walked to the city in P. M. Excessively hot'. 
Saw Meigs direct from Schenectady with abundance of news. Commencement was a complete failure --a flat concern --commonplace entirely. Says that it is the general impression there that I shall be, or rather have already been, called to a tutorship in the college. 
The news is certainly gratifying but till I receive some fuller assurance I will not put too much dependence upon mere report. 
Philadelphia Sunday July 31, 1836. Attended church at the corner of Eighth and Chestnut at the new Congregational. P. M. Grace Church. A real drone occupied the pulpit --not Mr. Luddards --who wearied and wore my patience out with reading his dry morality. A withering, blasting influence follows a reading ministry; I should freeze to death under such preaching, who am cold enough already. The soul-stirring eloquence which speaks from every limb ought to characterize pulpit oratory; the subject, the object, the rewards are enough to inspire any man unless he has been made a mere puppet in some of our schools. God will curse a reading minister; that is, he will not bless his labors. 
Haddington Monday August 1, 1836. Religious newspapers are an excellent means of disseminating moral and religious information, but many of them should be bettered, especially the organ of communication in our denomination, the American Baptist. 
I think it a pitiable performance by no means creditable to the Editor. If he pretends to manage the periodical, why not attend to it more and make it interesting? It looks like a thing shuffled off in a hurry. 
Tuesday August 2, 1836. Received a letter from Mother this evening confirming the intelligence that I had been chosen Tutor at U. C. She says Capt. Jackson called to see whether she thought I would accept the appointment and said they had decided to write to me. This is all well but 
734 
still I may feel that there is some uncertainty existing in the case until I receive a letter in their own handwriting offering me this situation: I desire not to be so affected by a failure as to be disgracefully disappointed, nor to be excessively elated by success. Whatever marks of regard and honor I obtain in this world I desire to accredit them all to God who alone is worthy of all praise. What I am is due to Him --not to myself. 
Wednesday August 3, 1836. Who has read Isocrates' treaties on morals addressed to Demonikes without admiration and instruction? It seems to be superior to the mere worldly maxims and breathes a spirit akin to the purer doctrines of religion. 
What could have hindered, that such men should have been Christians had the purer light of Revelation shone up on them? Would pride? Quite likely; for religion teaches a wise man that he must be a fool if he would gain the true wisdom; its doctrines are humbling to human nature and its morality purified from all world-maxims and wisdom. So that it is not safe to say that mere men of learning and great virtue would quicker believe the Gospel than the vicious and illiterate. 
Thursday August 4, 1836. Isocrates' advice respecting exercise of the body is exellent. He tells us to leave off exercising when we are still able to labor more. This is certainly correct but still few regard it, particularly those to whom it best applies. They either labor not at all or pass into the other extreme and fatigue themselves by over-exertion. 
One of my scholars, a young man of studious habits, lately told me, as though he had done a work of supererogation, that he "cradled" so much the day before that he could hardly raise his knife to his mouth at tea. I mark that man for a literary invalid. 
Friday August 5, 1836. Why does Horace talk so much about avarice? Was he a spendthrift? I am half inclined to think so, for it is perhaps a principle of our virtues to inveigh against the vice which is opposite to our our darling sin. One can but admire Horace in spite of his faults. He certainly has many beauties, although it may be doubted whether he is fit to be put into the hands of youth whose tender minds are so susceptible of impressions. 
Many of his Odes and Satires are exceedingly "smutty" and indicate the lax and depraved state of the writers morals. It would be well if we could speak better o_f many of own poets. 
Saturday August 6, 1836. Rain from morning till night. Of all who are born children into the kingdom of God, few can be found whose lives exhibit marks of shining piety. Even those who promise well at first fall away 


73!' 
after a space and are scarcely known at all as Christians, whilst those who began with feeble hopes increase until they become bright lights in the church. 
Whence arises this difference? from our natural constitution? or from the different circumstances in life into which men are thrown? or from both? 

Philadelphia Sunday August 7, 1836. What an inconsistent creature a cold, backslidden Christian is! His soul is as comfortless and cold as the icebergs of the North. He cannot contentedly enjoy the world, for he once knew the joys of religion; he cannot be comforted by religion, for piety dwells not in his heart; he has no relish for anything that other men pursue, but his happiness is made as meagre as his life is inconsistent. 
Monday August 8, 1836. In writing I am in sorry business, for with all my experience I find a barrenness of thought pervading every act of my mind and compelling me to confess myself a mere novice in the sublime art of thinking correctly. If I send my thoughts out, they return without a single idea; if I employ my mind upon a subject, it is slow to act and weak in all its operations; if I comprehend a subject, I have not words to express it elegantly. .
Tuesday August 9, 1836. Namque[?] Deos didici securum agere aerum Nee. siguid minfaciat natura, Deos id Tristes exalto coeli demittere acto. Horace. 
Horace's ideas of the providence of God were very imperfect when compared with those lessons which are taught by the Bible. Notwithstanding the light of the Gospel, we still have many among us at this late period who still believe this heathen philosophy which leads to every species of licentiousness and that cold, revolting scepticism that shrouds every object with the chill of the grave. 
Wednesday August 10, 1836. How insatiable are the desires of the soul! which rises from one condition to another, ever hoping but never acquiring that point from which the soul runs not after some extraneous good. 
Thursday August 11, 1836. As a republic we have existed more than fifty years! We have sustained two unequal contests with the mother country, the public mind has been tossed by the storms of faction and political strife, but no question at any previous period of our existence as a nation has been fraught with such serious consequences as that of Slavery. 
I tremble for the fate of our country in view of the increase of this evil and the growing petulance and obstinance which the South manifests whenever this exciting subject is approached. The proceedings of the last Congress, the alarming licentiousness of mobs in different parts of the country in favor of slavery, and the pertinacity with which slave-holders cling to the destructive evil are enough to show us how deadly must be the struggle before its chains can be loosed. 
Friday August 12, 1836. If the result be not a dismemberment of the 
737 
Union, it most assuredly must be effected by means beyond the reach of mere hurhan foresight. The Northern men are getting more and more determined to set their faces against the traffic in human flesh; they are rising in the might of their strength to vindicate the principles of our Constitution that "all men are born equal"; they are trying to effect this not by force of-arms but by the power of moral suasion and that mighty engine, the press, aided by the Post Office. 
Saturday August 13, 1836. Whether "Abolition" or "Colonization" be true, this one thing I hold to be important, that the subject should be open to free and fair discussion both by the press and Congress so that the apathy that now hangs upon the people may be removed and some effectual means be put in operation to free our country from the disgraceful blot. 
What have misguided slave-holders advocated? Why, the hampering of the press and a censorship over the transmission by mail? The names of such men should be "damned to everlasting fame." 
Philadelphia Sunday August 14, 1836. Heard "Dominie" Gillette. Passable. If I had not so often criticized his performances I would say a word, but any more would be superfluous and invidious. 
His church is as yet in somewhat an unsettled [state?] --a part for him, a great majority, and the rest in a state of "betweenity": whether to secede or not. Until they are gone, no peace can be expected, either for pastor or people. His brother Phila[nder] Gillette will leave Southwark soon and become pastor of the church at Schenectady. 
Monday August 15, 1836. On Saturday I took two communications from the Philadelphia Post Office where they had been a fortnight --one from Capt. Jackson and the other from Dr. Nott giving me notice of my appointment as Fellow of Union College. I accepted the appointment forthwith. Might it not seem strange that I should forsake an institution of our own denomination for one under the influence of another? Quite probably, if the circumstances were not known. 
It is useless here to enumerate them as I have often before spoken of some of the lighter causes which have operated so unfavorably to my comfort in my present situation. I will only say that it will never be a source of regret to me that I came to Haddington. I have learned here in the school of adversity what I never could have known otherwise so well. Besides it is at the setting out in life a circumstance which makes my knowledge thus acquired doubly valuable . 
Philadelphia 
738 
Tuesday August 16, 1836. Hot day. Nevertheless Jerry and I walked to the city in the afternoon for the purpose of meeting the Trustees of Haddington Institute. No meeting, notwithstanding the Chairman's assurance on Saturday that there would be one. They have not made any consultation in regard to the affairs of the Institute during the present term. Cool comfort. We may perhaps whistle for our money at the end of the term. 
Saw Dr. Babcock, almost the only man on the Board --regretted very much my leaving the Institute, wished to know if at some future period I would not return and take a Professorship in Haddington College, said I had become so identified with the Institution that they could better spare any member either of the Faculty or Trustees than myself &c. Although I was not willing to attach so much importance to my leaving the Institute, still I was glad to hear him say so, as it came from a man whom I respect and whom I know to be sincere. 
Wednesday August 17, 1836. At my duties again, drudging along seven hours a day as I have done nearly all this term without much hope that I shall have a cent at the close. And what is this mighty sum for which I have been laboring the whole term of more than four months? Why one hundred and forty dollars, out of which I pay about sixty for board! This I am obliged to earn thrice in anxiety and trouble of collecting it. Oh infamous! It's shameful conduct in any body of men. 
Thursday August 18, 1836. I saw West's picture of "Death on the Pale Horse" last Saturday in the old Congress Hall. The design is sublime, the execution perfect. I never yet witnessed anything so terrific as his representation of Death, who is riding in triumph over all men and prostrating everything lovely and valiant which he meets. 
Friday August 19, 1836. What a contrast there is between the countenance of the stern Warrior and that mild, confident look of the Savior! Mark, too, the stern uncompromising image of the man on the Black Horse. It is a masterpiece of art. 
Philadelphia Saturday August 20, 1836. Called on various members of the Trustees of Haddington Institution, found they had as yet done nothing for us. Took tea with Dr. Babcock, fine, pleasant, liberal-minded man. With a few such men the Baptist denomination in Philadelphia might move on and do something for the cause of education. Taking the denomination at large throughout the city there is but [little?] unanimity and religious feeling. The churches have been for years divided on the subject of doctrines and 
739 
Tuesday August 16, 1836. Hot day. Nevertheless Jerry and I walked to the city in the afternoon for the purpose of meeting the Trustees of Haddington Institute. No meeting, notwithstanding the Chairman's assurance on Saturday that there would be one. They have not made any consultation in regard to the affairs of the Institute during the present term. Cool comfort. We may perhaps whistle for our money at the end of the term. 
Saw Dr. Babcock, almost the only man on the Board --regretted very much my leaving the Institute, wished to know if at some future period I would not return and take a Professorship in Haddington College, said I had become so identified with the Institution that they could better spare any member either of the Faculty or Trustees than myself &c. Although I was not willing to attach so much importance to my leaving the Institute, still I was glad to hear him say so, as it came from a man whom I respect and whom I know to be sincere. 
Wednesday August 17, 1836. At my duties again, drudging along seven hours a day as I have done nearly all this term without much hope that I shall have a cent at the close. And what is this mighty sum for which I have been laboring the whole term of more than four months? Why one hundred and forty dollars, out of which I pay about sixty for board! This I am obliged to earn thrice in anxiety and trouble of collecting it. Oh infamous! It's shameful conduct in any body of men. 
Thursday August 18, 1836. I saw West's picture of "Death on the Pale Horse" last Saturday in the old Congress Hall. The design is sublime, the execution perfect. I never yet witnessed anything so terrific as his representation of Death, who is riding in triumph over all men and prostrating everything lovely and valiant which he meets. 
Friday August 19, 1836. What a contrast there is between the countenance of the stern Warrior and that mild, confident look of the Savior! Mark, too, the stern uncompromising image of the man on the Black Horse. It is a masterpiece of art. 
Philadelphia Saturday August 20, 1836. Called on various members of the Trustees of Haddington Institution, found they had as yet done nothing for us. Took tea with Dr. Babcock, fine, pleasant, liberal-minded man. With a few such men the Baptist denomination in Philadelphia might move on and do something for the cause of education. Taking the denomination at large throughout the city there is but [little?] unanimity and religious feeling. The churches have been for years divided on the subject of doctrines and 
740 
to such a degree of virulence has their animosity arrived that churches 
have divided and fought with all the rancor of the men of this world. 
Sunday August 21, 1836. The Baptists of Philadelphia, notwithstanding all that has [been] said in their praise, need to learn a lesson of their brethren in N. Y. and N. E. 
They cannot prosper as a body so long as party is conflicting with party and church is divided against itself, so long as narrow prejudiced views are held respecting the doctrines of the New Testament. H.' G. Jones, who has been called the Bishop of the Baptist churches in this region and led in their deliberations, I have heard say that the whole body of our denomination in N. Y. and N. E. are corrupt! 
His authority in the churches, it is true, is getting low, but the time has been, and but a very short time ago, when any measure proposed to the Philadelphia Association by him passed as a matter of course. The levin [leaven?], however, is beginning to work in this ancient body and it is confidently believed that in time it will become relieved from the incubus which has so long paralyzed its energies. 
Monday August 22, 1836. Jerry and I came to the conclusion on Saturday that it was time to do something to rouse the Trustees, for they are perfectly dead to the interests of the Institute but more particularly to any calls which we have as yet made for an adjustment of our claims. We therefore sent in our resignation, a measure which we conceived to be absolutely necessary at this crisis. á 
We were not disappointed in the result. A meeting was immediately called and this afternoon Mr. Jones came over blustering and scolding (poor old man) as though he would frighten us into subjection at once. However, before he left his ire became a little assuaged, and he promised us our money if we would stay till the close of the term. 
What should we think of ourselves if we should leave the Institute without showing that we noticed such conduct as the Trustees have manifested towards Mr. Dagg and ourselves? 
Tuesday August 23, 1836. My mind is so perplexed with the preparations for approaching Examination and Exhibition in speaking, together with our affair with the Trustees, that I hardly find my ideas sufficiently managed to appear intelligible if committed to paper. Confusion reigns in my cranium, one idea jostling against another and all struggling for utterance. 
Wednesday August 24, 1836. Messrs. Jones and Sexton visited us and made such arrangements that we expect our money on Wednesday next; 
intimated that they were very much hurt by our communication, thought we were hasty in the act and had done ourselves no credit thereby. We expressed ourselves to the contrary, feeling convinced that circumstances warranted us in doing as we had done. 
Thursday August 25, 1836. Sat for hours this morning in the open air hearing the orators rehearse their pieces. An intolerable bore to one who has heard them forty times before. The Exhibition is to take place in the open air under a grove near the Institution, a capital place if the weather is favorable. 
Friday August 26, 1836. Another rehearsal --a cold, rawwind blowing. Took cold --confound the speaking! what a bore it is. Poor weak ailing bodies we are --a breath of air throws us into fever and fills our feeble frame with pain. The world is full of disease; it is a great hospital whereiná ails innumerable attract our notice and baffle the utmost skill of the physicians. Almost every day brings with it some melancholy instance of mortality to remind us of our end. 
Philadelphia Saturday August 27, 1836. Mary and I made several calls preliminary to our leaving the city. After trudging about town all day, visiting the "Academy of Fine Arts" and various other wonders with [which] the place abounds, found myself woefully fatigued, my neck stiff and back full of pain from the effects of a cold. Jerry and myself propose ending the concerns of the day by sleeping at Philander Gillette's in Southwark, who by the by is about to leave the city for the "Dorp." 
Philadelphia Sunday August 28, 1836 . Our host is a kind-hearted, honest, homespun man of good common sense and ardent piety and will doubtless suit the Dutchmen of Schenectady tolerably well. However, he is something of an old granny after all: nervous and pretty easilyá dejected or elated by sudden changes of fortune. I have visited Mr. Barnes' church six or eight times perhaps of late and did not hear him till today. His sermon was a feast --read, it is true,verbatim, without much gesticulation; nevertheless, it differed "toto coelo" from the "common run" of dry, written theological essays inasmuch as it was a real, pointed practical sermon calculated to arouse the feelings and awaken attention. Such a man will come forth from the fire of persecution ten-fold more brilliant and shining. 
P. M. Heard Mr. Luddard of Grace Church, another star of the church, read a fine sermon to a full congregation; very popular and evangelical man; formerly a Methodist, plain in his personal appearance; greatly respected in the city. 

Haddington Monday August 29, 1836. This farce of examination, commenced this morning and ended at three p.m. without any visitors, confounded dull business, upon my word, and vexatious withal that, after three or four weeks' toil and preparation for the occasion, no one should come to witness the boys' progress. So much for the interest in Haddington Institute. It is not so much to be wondered at, however, for the Trustees took not so much trouble as to publish that we were to have an examination and many thought it private. 
Tuesday August 30, 1836. Ditto. Not one man from the city of all who have sons here, not one Trustee of those who pretend such a mighty interest for the Institute save Mr. Jones --all were absent save a few good citizens from Haddington. Oh! Shame! pudor! 
Rode to the city to arrange business preparatory for leaving the city. Saw Brother Linnard, a sterling man and warm liberal-hearted Christian; attempted to explain away any impression which might arise in his mind derogatory to my character from the circumstance of my resigning. Whether I succeeded or not, can hardly say. N. B. If cleanliness is next kin to holiness, as Wesley said, Philadelphia must be the very vestibule of Heaven. It is a lovely city, and how little too it costs the citizens to keep it so. Water is the Universal Solvent and Elixir of Life to the Quaker city, and its free use makes it one of the most agreeable places in the world. 
Haddington Wednesday August 31, 1836. Splendid day and everything propitious for our Exhibition. 
People began to assemble about two and by three o'clock probably twelve hundred people had arrived. Then our Tyros' heads began to palpitate, doubtless, and many a cheek grow pale and many a knee [knock?] against his fellow, from fear. In the audience there was a large share of beauty and respectability. 
Who could not be eloquent when so fine a collection of pretty faces and bright eyes were presented to one gaze? Indeed, I almost wished myself a schoolboy again that I might act over the scenes of my boyish days, but they are past and can only be recalled in remembrance like the visions of a night. Oh! how sad a thing it is to be a man! and be growing old! --to find now and then a grey hair in one's head! whilst yet the áheart and feelings are buoyant and full of the spirit of youth. 
The exercises "went off' well on the whole and I think to the liking 
743 
of the people. Jerry left me tonight for town from whence he starts in the morning for Boston. I shall wait till Friday. Upon my word, I regretted to part with Eaton. We have spent a summer remarkably pleasantly together and finally have parted, probably without much hope of enjoying each other's society for so long a period again. 
He is a budget of frailties and carelessness but has many redeeming good qualities. Wherever he goes, there he finds friends and by his winning deportment attaches many to himself. His foibles chiefly affect his own comfort and health with[out] reaching to the happiness of others. He is lazy but talented, preferring rather the task of writing to the drudgery of study. Success to thee, Jerry. 
Philadelphia Thursday September 1, 1836. Left Haddington and my few good friends there forever. How true it is that [we] only live to form acquaintances that are soon to be broken. We are a migrating, uneasy set of creatures and fancy all places pleasant but the one in which we now reside, but how much soever our feelings may incline to the contrary, reason must enforce the fact that happiness does not consist of the place or occupation or any other extraneous object, but dwells in the mind or nowhere. 
Oh how often do I place the fulfillment of all my wishes in riches and honors, yet reason whispers, "They are baubles. Can the soul be pleased with straws and gewgaws?" 
Rode from Haddington with a very pretty and interesting Quakeress yet, poor thing, how deluded by that soul-destroying doctrine! Clinging to morality as her hope of acceptance with God instead of true and genuine repentance. I believe that the Quaker doctrine is most pernicious. 
Upon the trot all day, making calls and doing business. Took tea at Mr. A. D. Gillets house, just commenced "keeping house" in Clove Street. May the r Lord help this good young man to spend his time pleasantly and profitably with his people. 
Along the way Friday September 2, 1836. After such hurrying to get to the wharf and much elbowing to get through the crowd, we set foot safely on board the boat for N. Y. Our boat got along up to Bordentown just as other boats do --by steam, and I passed the time like most other passengers with newspaper, chit-chat or a cigar. By the way, smoking is a filthy practice akin to dram-drinking and other dirty vices. How convenient for some men to be unknown, especially travellers, because they may then strut with impunity and a small man may swell to the size of a large one and talk big and "make believe" with perfect safety. 
To quarrel with the servants is another convenient thing to bring a man into notice and show him to be a gentleman! To complain of everything at table and quarrel with oneself on all occasions when others may see you! Most men are fools! 

New York Bay and harbor never looked more beautiful and lovely, and there sat the "Lion of the West" in all his glory, accumulating strength. Passed a little black pirate-looking Texian-armed schooner. I can't sympathize with the Texians in their boasted War for Independence, cannot help thinking but that they are influenced by wrong motives. 
Half-past one o'clock. Landed and threaded our way through the dirt and stench of the streets up to the North River [and] Steamboat DeWitt Clinton. 
Five o'clock, off again, no berth. Got a table to lay on, thought myself well off, much better bed than some poor fellows had who took "Standees" all night. 
Schenectady Saturday September 3, 1836. Awoke on the "overslough" --not water enough for a shad to swim over --drizzling rain of course! Felt very com.fortable in view of sticking there all [night]. Pretty soon a lighter hove in sight and took us on board. She was too deep to swim clear but after much backing and rolling got over; got on railroad, got home and got some breakfast. Found Mother sick in bed of a fever and Father away from home: felt rather blue, but was happy to find Mother not dangerous. Ch what ills this flesh is heir to! 
Sunday September 4, 1836. Mr. ________ preached for us in morning and afternoon and Mr. ______ in the evening. Sermons passable. I am a poor hardened backslider --unfit to be called by the name of Christian and to weary the patience of God by my neglect of religion. I am a worldly man -.a fairweather Christian, periodically pious and happy and unworthy of the profession of Godliness. 
"Oh that it were with me as in days that are past, 
When the candle of the Lord shone round about me." 
Monday September 5, 1836. Went to Troy to see Savage, now engaged in the study of law --a sterling fellow with a decided taste for literature, different from the chicanery of the Law. 
Troy is a busy city containing an active population who carry on no mean competition in business with Albany. They are a fine specimen of what Yankees are when contrasted with the Dutch of Albany. Rode to Albany and staid with Bob Strong --a smart business man and much intent on speculations. Bob will do well in the world; hope he will not forget his God. 

Tuesday September G, 1836. Fine day --slept with Bob and this morning visited the Parade Ground to see a r~giment of ragamuffins train --a sight which more convincingly taught me the utter uselessness and bad tendency of militia training in the present state of organization than any argument that I ever heard advanced. How preposterous to think that such men learn the art of war by a "two days" manoevering in a year! Where is the equivalent for this immense loss of time, money, and virtue? Is it found in our readiness to repel invasions? Nonsense!! 
Union College 
Wednesday September 7, 1836. Engaged in examining students for admission at Dr. Potter's room. How miserably deficient most young men are in Arithmetic, which above all things ought to be well learnt. Poor fellows! Some of them hardly know how much 2 + 2 is, and yet they think of entering with all imaginable ease and success. 
Dr. Potter has nearly the whole charge of affairs now both during the absence and presence of Dr. Nott. He is a smart and active man whose mind is highly cultivated and stored with treasures of knowledge which he has classified in the most perfect manner. á 
Union College 
Thursday September 8, 1836. Hardly find time to eat, so many are wanting examination. All rooms full in .College. Many are obliged to lodge in town. Great need of more capacious buildings. 
To be a Tutor in a large college of wild young men is by no means a comfortable thing; one must have great prudence and be careful in every thing that he does. I tremble when I anticipate what I have before me, and reflect upon my inexperience. Age usually carries with it respect; a prof[essor] may feel himself at ease with only common prudence, but a tutor of the same age with most of his pupils must walk very circumspectly else his authority will be absolutely despised. I need wisdom from above to guide in my arduous duties. 
Friday September 9, 1836. Prayers in Chapel. Few students present and them new ones. 
How natural that old barn of a Chapel looks! wherein I attended morning and evening prayers for three years and upwards. Even the old black walls are familiar acquaintances. The mutilated seats show the engraven names of my classmates and friends, recalling vividly to mind those times when they held places therein. Association calls up sad recollections of bygone times and, although it may be flattering to me to be called [to] hold the humble place that I now take in my Alma Mater, still 
746 
the change in my circumstances makes all imaginable difference in the amount of my happiness. I am still somewhat of a boy and hate this put-on gravity and distance which an officer must have towards his students. 
Saturday September 10, 1836. Mother's health is much improved so that she is able to sit up. What a blessed thing to have a good home and a good mother! I know that I do not appreciate mine as I ought. 
How tender and disinterested is a. mother's care! We that are children cannot imagine the anxieties and labors she has felt for us --the prayers she has offered and the interest she has manifested in our welfare. How many nights she has sat by our sides in sickness! How fondly she has carried us in her arms when young! How tenderly she nursed our infantile years when we were weak and unable to help ourselves! 
Nothing can exceed a mother's love. 
Sunday September 11, 1836. Some rain. Heard Mr. Backus at the Presbyterian Church. His sermons seem to be good. Why it is that they are so little pleasing, I am at a loss to tell. They are pointed and full of sound theology but noth'less dry and uninteresting. Is he not too abstract and metaphysical? He has no apt and familiar illustrations, no figures drawn from real life and commonplace things like our Savior's in his Sermons, in which are illustrations from objects known to the most illiterate of his hearers. We have departed from the primitive mode of preaching and degenerated into a cold, stiff, and formal style more fit for Philosophical essays than the feeling and exciting truths of religion. 
Our ministers ought not to read their sermons so much. 
Monday September 12, 1836. Getting classes organized and divisions made, giving out lessons and preparing for operations tomorrow. The recitation room is the last place that the generality of students wish to get into but the first to get out. Study is a terror to them and the less, the better. My recitations will be these: In morning, 3d Division Junior Class in Trigonometry. A division of Sophomore Class in Arithmetic at eleven o'clock, and another in Algebra at four o'clock. This assignment is quite satisfactory to me. Occupy John Nott's room, Middle Section, North College. 
Tuesday, September 13, 1836. Now if I stay here three years, for which time I was chosen Fellow, I must necessarily have some leisure. How shall it be spent? Sometimes I have the study of Medicine in view and at others Mathematics but am as yet undecided. If I take teaching as a profession, why I may as well spend my time in fitting myself for such a station, for Medicine I should neither like in the practice or study. May I have industry in whatever I engage. 
74-7 
Wednesday September 14, 1836. Good water and a plenty of it may be reckoned among the greatest blessings of life. Its use is universal and indispensable; applicable to the arts, to domestic purposes and in fact to everything with which man has to do. 
Thursday September 15, 1836. It astonishes me however that, amidst so many advantages as some towns possess for watering them, no effort should be made to effect this desirable object. Why, here in Schenectady this nasty little Dutch city, we might have an ocean of pure spring water at a very moderate expense ... 
Friday September 16, 1836 .... but there is so much amiableness and lack of public spirit about the inhabitants that nothing has been done or ever will be perhaps. They had rather drink filthy water and have their houses liable every minute to be burned than spend a cent on public improvements. 
September 17, 1836. It is the lot of man ever to be so situated that he imagines everyone's lot preferable to that of himself. His happiness is neither present nor past but future --just before him and almost within his grasp. He considers the dark side of things with which he has to do now but contemplates those to come through the false medium of anticipation and prejudice. 
Sunday September 18, 1836. Why cannot a man who has seen a score of years and learnt the experience which they have taught profit by his knowledge so that he may not forever be hankering after pleasures which dwell only in imagination? Why this eternal change so apparent in all connected with things human? We may search every spot of the globe, we may try every profession, we may participate in every joy and still the heart will feel an aching void which nothing can fill up but the hope that future good is yet able to afford all the consolation that we need. 
Oh Lord teach me so to number my days that I may apply my heart to wisdom. 
September 19, 1836. Nothing like frequent exercise to the student. I am making a foot lathe for the purpose of obtaining this desirable end. I have seen too much ruin incident upon neglect on this important point in a man's health ever to expose myself again to that sloth[ful] habit by which disease and its concomitant horrors are induced into the body and mind of man. 
748 
Tuesday September 20, 1836. Taking hold of mechanics tools again revives all the taste which I have inherited for mechanics and machinery. When but a boy it was my delight to build waterwheels and fire engines and many other little pieces of mechanism by which a lasting bias was given to my mind which has more or less evinced itself in future life. 
I must be an engineer, a machinist; it suits my taste better than mere theory without practice although I cannot say but what I admire Mathematics inasmuch as they are mechanical, but. .. 
Wednesday September 21, 1836 .... further I know not that my partiality extends. One of the earliest circumstances of my life, which now is deeply imprinted on my mind, was my father's buying me a knife. It was everything to me until I lost it and served to fashion my rude contrivances into shape. It was my gimblet, plane, saw and axe and when it was gone, I lost all. 
Thursday September 22, 1836. How unhappy is man. Without religion, not merely the name but the power of religion, he must be pious or unhappy. This is my experience. 
Friday September 23, 1836. It is astonishing how much we all know compared with what we ought and might know in consideration of our privileges. I must acknowledge myself a dunce but most of my pupils are akin to me in this respect, only they perhaps have rather longer ~ than myself. 
Saturday September 29, 1836. There are always some young men who pass along through College without study and come out as big doeheads as when they entered. I have seen scores of such and it is !amen.table to see the consequences of such a course. A little knowledge makes them proud and inefficient and their pride makes them discard every other calling but the learned professions, for which they are not prepared. 
Such lazy dolts had better take spade and shovel and be obliged to earn their bread i,y the sweat of their brows in labor which requires no head work. 
Sunday September 25, 1836. Morning prayer. I thank thee oh Lord for another opportunity of presenting myself before thee and of addressing thee at the commencement of a new day. Grant thy blessing on all that I do during its continuance and blot from the book of thy remembrance the past offenses of my life. 
I confess that my offenses are many and aggravated and that if we were called into judgment I could not answer for one of a thousand of 

them. Lord, visit me not in thy displeasure but, when thy justice calls for 
my condemnation, look upon thy son who was bruised for my iniquities. 
Let thy continued goodness lead me to unfeigned repentance [for] 
my sins and make me ashamed and afraid to offend against thee. 
Keep me this day under thy careful protection and guide me by thy spirit in all that I do lest I err from thy way. Teach me humility and thy fear which is the beginning of Wisdom. Open my eyes and make me know how vile I am and how great is that distance between thee and me. In all my acquirements, Lord, let me first choose that good part which can never be taken from me. May I sit at the feet of Jesus and learn true wisdom without which all other wisdom is folly. 
Take not thy Holy spirit from me, Oh Lord, nor leave me to the deceitfulness of my own heart lest, while I think I stand, I fall. Change my corrupt heart and draw it back to thee from whom I have erred, and prepare me to be one of thy children and dwell in thy presence forever, where are pleasures evermore. For thy son's sake. Amen. á 
Monday September 26, 1836. If anyone be afflicted, let him pray. (Peter) 
This is the only right prescription for a wounded heart and how few ever try its efficacy. Everything is usually sought sooner than the foot of the throne where God ever waits to be gracious. 
Man that is born of woman is of few day and full of trouble. Of course he should be a praying being and never give over till he is perfect in Christ Jesus, which cannot be expected in this life but in that which is to come. Poor-creatures! how vain for us to think without God, and yet we all try, but vainly. 
Tuesday September 27, 1836. Of all creatures whom God has made, man is created but a little lower than the angels, [yet?] is the most unreasonable. He sports and trifles life away when reason tells him that eternity depends upon this probationary state. 
Wednesday September 28, 1836. How do I like teaching in this situation? Pretty well and yet I may say that it has its inconveniences, little vexations, like every other situation. Hope flatters to deceive. 
"Man never~ but to be happy." All pure enjoyment is future, the past and present are alike gloomy to him. How wisely the Deity has constituted our natures in order that. .. 
Thursday September 29, 1836 .... we might be weaned from earthly and transitory things and place our affections on heaven. Does not this insatiableness of the soul --this longing after happiness argue its immortality? 

Has God given us these desires and feelings without any possibility 
of their ever being gratified? We are fearfully and. wonderfully made! we 
know little of things around us and less of ourselves. An apple falls to the 
ground and we can not tell why. We cannot make a spear of grass grow or 
explain the progress of its mysterious formation from the earth, anymore 
than we can form a world. "Thy knowledge is too wonderful for me, Oh 
Lord"! 
Friday September 30, 1836. It is an interesting sight to see three hundred young men fitting their minds by education for usefulness to their generation, and yet the thought sometimes flashes across my mind that some, it may be, are preparing to become a withering curse to mankind and blast the little circle in which they may hereafter move with the pestiferous breath of vice and immorality. No one can calculate the evil effects of unsanctified learning, 
Saturday October 1, 1836. It is like a sharp instrument in the hands of him who knows not how to use it. An educated man is never without influence. His example tells on others and, if vicious and perverted, how deleterious that man! He becomes a bitter curse to his race. 
Sunday October 2, 1836. There is something peculiarly simple and expressive in the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, causing a multitude of associations to arise in the mind of the humble believer of the most profitable kind. How exactly suited to that unobtrusive system of religion which our Savior instituted in place of the cumbrous forms and rites of the Jewish. Oh! it should humble us that our sins should cause a sacrifice so costly, especially whenever we partake of the memorials of our Lord's dying love. 
Monday October 3, 1836. What am I doing? Upon my troth I cannot answer. I attend my regular recitations, it is true, but I can give no account of the manner in-which I spend my leisure. It makes me abhor myself and feel humble to reflect upon my slothfulness. How can I waste so much time without turning it to better account? How can I bear to lose a single moment of so short a life? which should be economized to the highest degree? 
Tuesday October 4, 1836. Morning Prayer. Oh Lord, the heavens declare thy glory and the firmament showeth thy handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech and night unto night showeth knowledge of thee; everything above and around us proclaims the greatness of thy power and 
15{ 
benevolence. But we, the noblest of thy creatures whom thou hast made but a little lower than the angels, how little do we glorify and honor thy name. Even "the ox knoweth his owner and the ass his master's crib, but we do not know, we do not consider." Oh Lord we confess with shame ... 
Wednesday October 5, 1836 .... our aggravated sins and transgressions; we have erred from thy way like lost sheep; we have broken thy commands and despised thy reproofs and we have worshipped the world as our God instead of thee. When Wisdom hath uttered her voice, we have hated her instruction. We beseech thee to give us deep and lasting repentance so that we may be like him who went up to the temple to pray, standing afar off and smiting upon his breast and saying, "Lord be merciful to me a sinner." 
Thursday October 6, 1836. We commit ourselves into thy care and keeping this day Oh Lord! desiring to love thee more and serve thee better than we have ever done. Help us to dedicate ourselves to thy service and to live not for our own sakes [but] for thee. Guide and direct us in all that we do by thy Spirit, for of ourselves we are weak and erring creatures and can do no good thing. 
Friday October 7, 1836. We pray thee not to leave us to the deceitfulness of our own hearts or the snares of the adversary, but oh Lord, preserve us from secret and presumptuous sin, from pride and arrogance, and from all the temptations of the world. Give us thy strength for our weakness and thy grace which is a sufficient help in every necessity. 
Saturday October 8, 1836. Assimilate us into the likeness of thy son who was meek and lowly in Spirit and who, when reviled, reviled not again. Help us to pattern our lives after his, to believe in his name and have our souls washed in his blood. We pray thee to prepare us for thy children, to deliver us from evil and give us seats at thy right hand where there are pleasures forever more. Amen. 
Sunday October 9, 1836. It is well that there is a small space of time set apart for the worship of God and the contemplation of divine things, for how little does man think of his Maker! 
"Like brutes we live, like brutes we die." There is no consideration in us all except about things of this life. In these we are wise, oh how contumate is our folly to prefer the toys and baubles of the world for the more enduring riches of the other --righteousness and the favor of God. á 
Monday October 10, 1836. College is a hard place for a fool or"greenhorn," especially if he be not a "fool of quality" or one of thefashlonable dunces of 

College. A man who is deficient in intellect is not so illy esteemed as one who is simple, honest, and credulous so as to become the easy dupe of his mischievous fellows. 
Tuesday October 11, 1836. Judge Jones of this city has a son in College of very singular make both mental[ly] and bodily and religiously from his childhood. The peculiarity of his disposition was early displayed in his writing sermons and reading them to his brothers and sisters for amusement, a practice that he has followed up ever since. He entered College during the present term and pretty soon intimated to one of his class that he would like to preach to a few in his room if they would assemble. At first the proposal was taken for jest but on being repeated with much gravity, the thing was caught immediately as a subject for fun. 
Wednesday October 12, 1836. A place and time having been appointed, all the hard cases in College were assembled and Jones with much gravity read the Episcopal Service, dressed in an old gown, and commenced his sermon with this text "Feed my lambs." He had not proceeded far in his preachment, however, before Mr. Reed, the Second Officer, interfered and stopped the farce from being carried any farther. Poor fool! he hardly knows enough to keep out of fire and yet his parents think him a prodigy. He may be, but I am slow to find his talents. 
Thursday October 13, 1836. Here I see the power of rank and wealth in procuring favor and respect from men. If this fellow's father was but a common mechanic, as mine, how soon would the faculty think proper to send him home but as he is allied to the aristocracy of the town --the Duane family--he although a dunce will be kept here. I am thankful that what little merit I have was not derived from any such source. 
Friday October 14, 1836. A Morning Praver. Oh Lord, our God, bow down thine ear and listen unto us, for we are poor and needy-we are blind and naked and completely infected with the malady of sin. Unto whom shall we go for relief but unto thee? Our offences, oh Lord, which richly deserve thy displeasure cannot be hid from thy penetrating eye, for "If we ascend up into heaven thou art there, if we make our bed in hell behold thou art there. If we take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall thy hand lead us and thy right hand shall hold us." 
Saturday October 15, 1836. Thy omnipresence and continued goodness should lead us to repentance and make us afraid and ashamed to offend against thee; yet Lord we have to acknowledge continually our manifold 

sins and transgressions and confess with humility that if we were brought into judgement we could not answer for one of a thousand of our offenses. We pray thee Lord not to visit us in thy displeasure for we could not stand before thee even if thine anger were kindled but a little. 
Sunday October 16, 1836. Wilt thou watch round our paths this day, Heavenly Father, and guard us from every ill. Wilt thou uphold us with thy powerful hand and prevent our feet from falling. Let no danger come nigh unto our dwellings, we pray thee, nor let our wicked and corrupt affections or the snares of the adversary lead us astray, but let the time past of our lives suffice us wherein we have walked in the light of our own eyes and despised thy precepts. 
Monday October 17,1836. May we henceforth dedicate the remainders of our lives unto thee and consecrate ourselves and all we have to thy service. Teach us oh Lord to remember thee now before those evil days come and those years draw nigh when we shall say we have no pleasure in them. Teach us true wisdom which is to fear and obey thee and in all our gettings may we get understanding. 
Tuesday October 18, 1836. Humble our proud hearts, Oh Lord, and bow our stubborn wills. Convince us of sin, of righteousness and of a judgment to come. Grant us repentance and remission of sins through thy Son and give us a correct knowledge of thy character and of our own, and finally save us for Christ's sake. Amen. 
Wednesdav October 19, 1836. What unaccountable weather! What are we coming to? Snow in October! Who ever heard of such a phenomenon? But it is no more strange than true. Since last Wednesday when we had six inches of snow there have been several other little squalls, all seeming to forewarn us to prepare for a severe winter. Oh! Lord spare the poor people! 
Thursday October 20, 1836. John B. White was in the city a few weeks since on his way to Illinois to "seek his fortune." Having graduated at Brown U. and finished the study of law he goes an adventurer to the "Far West. " Success to him. There is something sublime in the thought of one's leaving kindred, friends and native country for a wilderness, contending with the wildness of nature and the deprivations of a forest home for years. Such men have moral courage that no obstacle can intimidate. 
Friday October 21, 1836. Had letter from Haddington a few days since, in which was the mournful intelligence of the death of Phineas P. Abrahams, 
7St.
formerly one of my students. He was a young man of talents and promises but the inscrutable ways of Providence are often past our comprehensions. Death delights to riot among talent and youth and promise. He was a Christian, and is now in glory. 
Saturday October 22, 1836. Last evening heard Samuel Chapman lecture on Temperance, a man of some wit and a large fund of anecdotes and facts. He is surely an indefatigable man, having visited every jail and poor house in the state and collected all the statistics of crime types and pauperism for the state of N. Y. arising from intemperance. V. G. Eaton is at Newton Seminary. 
Sunday October 23, 1836. Mr. Gillette is an exellent man, a zealous Christian, but a very indifferent preacher. I fear he will not draw much of a congregation. Such poor sinners we are that "the word" cannot be relished except if served up in the most palatable manner. We care less for the piety of our ministers than for their talents; we estimate him more by his learning than by his Christian experience and Godly knowledge. Poor fallen creatures! Why do we thus! It shows our depravity of heart. Attended the "Factory Sabbath School"--very interesting spot for missionary effort. Lord help us to do good. 
Monday October 24, 1836. This life is full of trouble and anxiety and turmoil; death and disease have fastened upon every man and marked him for a victim of the grave. Can it be that there is no better world? Must the soul ever be dissatisfied? Oh no. There is a better existence free from imperfection and pain wherein the spirit of man may expand forever and dwell in the presence of his Maker with eternal joy. 
Tuesday October 25, 1836. How wonderfully excitable are bodies of young men! Feeling seems to be raised in proportion to their measures of contact and their number. Hence in a monastic college it is much more difficult to keep order and quiet than in those Inst[itutions] in which the students room in different or separate lodgings. Such young men do not feel so clannish and such a kindred feeling, neither is there such an excitability on every moving question. 
Wednesday October 26 ,1836. Been trying to contract with Maj. Holland for the College property in Union Street now occupied by Mr. Fisk. Price $3,500. Another has the refusal for two weeks, after which, if not sold, I stand second applicant. A large amount for a young man to involve himself, and yet there is a decided advantage in so doing because I have a permanent investment for my income as fast as earned. If it were otherwise, I might in all probability spend the chief of my salary without 

anything to show for it. 
Thursday October 27, 1836. Money uninvested is soon spent. It never occurred so fully to me as [at] the present time that this was the fact, but examination of human nature and past circumstance will corroborate this fully. An honest and industrious young man with fair prospects risks nothing running in debt a few hundred dollars; it only stimulates him and affords a kind of savings institution. 
Friday October 28, 1836. But while youth are seeking perishable mansions how much more should they strive to make profitable investments where his everlasting fortune may be made, and obtain mansions which are prepared at the right hand of God! So often as each passing hour flits by, I am reminded by some circumstance of the brevity of human life and of the folly of all human plans. "Unstable" is written on all things below, -Oh why then will man be so unwise as to fix his hopes thereon! 
Saturday October 29, 1836. Schenectady is OQ.ly flt for hogs and Dutchmen. A dirtier place never existed on this "footstool." One cannot walk the street without brushing against a hog or meeting a cow in the sidewalk. He 
can cannot sleep for the yelping of curs or the caterwauling of Toms. And such narrow, contracted illiberal minds as make up this community are the only flt inhabitants. Why have we no aqueduct? Why are the streets inhabited by cattle? Why are the ways and walks never cleaned? Why never repaired? Oh what a world of filth. 
Sunday October 30, 1836. Heard Mr. G[illette] in forenoon, preached the truth with zeal and warmth, but oh how unnatural and artificial are his tones. No man could ever be further from the truth in the matter of delivery than he. Why cannot a man read or speak in conversational tone? Or must there always be a ministerial sing-song tone? Foster is sick, staid this afternoon at his room. Poor fellow. How hard to be sick in College, away from homer 
Monday October 31, 1836. Not economical of time --not sufficiently industrious when I labor both mentally and bodily. Have seen the time when my mind felt as though it were increasing in thought daily --not so now. Ought to learn something useful every day --often fail. Ought be more holy every day of my life than on the preceding day --fail herein. Do nothing as I ought --but all things as I ought not. Avoid reveries particularly!! 

Tuesday November 11, 1836. "Babbage on the Economy of Machinery" is a work of considerable merit and interest. Such works I read with much pleasure and find them more in accordance with my feelings than any other kind of reading. 
Does this not argue that my taste is decidely mechanical? If so, the question occurs how ought I to cultivate this taste? In mechanics I might excel but in anything else there is a certainty almost, that I shall not. 
Engineering in its various branches would doubtless suit me. 
Wednesday Novembe.r 2, 1836. How much credence is to be put in the word of a man, in the assertions of a book or the political newspapers? Much of what is published is confessedly fictitious and more that is put forth for truth is doubtless the very opposite, and among the many cases of falsehood truth is seldom found. 
It is a sad comment upon human nature that man is so deceptive and false and that this peculiarity is woven into all his works. 
Thursday November 3, 1836 . Considerable sickness in the West College which many attribute to the locality or to the want of proper ventilation in the cellar. Of course much alarm is visible among the students. Many are leaving and others are petitioning to have the term of study shortened. Anything to get rid of labor, anything to indulge the propensities for idleness. 
Friday November 4, 1836. Foster is sick. Who is free from ails and disease? My ear is pained. My heart is sick with the continual reiteration of complaints. The death bell is always tolling, the doctor is put at every corner, the hearse is the common vehicle of the streets --and does man lay this to heart? Does he profit by these lessons of death? No, if heaven and earth should come together, he would not be awaked from his eternal sleep. 
Saturday November 5, 1836. Punctuality is a blessed virtue. I think it worthy of the name of a virtue if anything in our code of morals. It seems to give a man leisure and equanimity, it prevents one-half of the fretfulness of life and three-quarters of the anxiety which preys upon the minds of men. It is difficult to tell how much more a punctual man may do in the course of his life than one of the opposite character. 
By the by, the "Journal of the Franklin Institute" is a vastly pleasing and useful periodical worthy the notice of every scientific man and mechanic. It is doubtless the best thing of the kind in the country. It is not a pleasant thing to have one's invention so roughly handled as that Jones uses them. 

Sunday November 6, 1836. My days fly swifter than a weaver's shuttle. Where are the years of my childhood and youth, the sports and fellows of early years, the scenes of former days? Swallowed in the ocean of things past. And, now this is the Sabbath, I can recollect with what anxiety longed for old Mr. Carpenter of Chichester to close his sermon of a cold Sabbath day in the winter weather. 
The old church still stands upon the hill and was in those days never heated in the winter, but in fact was far colder than the farmers' barns. His sermon was as cold as the season and in length in the inverse ratio to the day. 
There was no hanging back, go I must although I froze my toes. 
The past calls upon me to be humble, for I came from humility and am nothing now of which to be proud. Am I better than my school fellows? Who made us to differ? 
Monday November 7, 1836. John Nott is an odd fish. He went to London this fall and staid 12 days!! Whether "love-cracked," "non compos mentis," or what, I cannot say, but this much is certain: he is an oddity. One Sage, a student died on Friday night. Oh! how loud a warning to us, and although his lips are closed they seem to say, "Be ye also ready." But "Men think all mortal but themselves. " Therein we fail and seek our own destruction. What a glorious hereafter to those who die in the Lord! Let me thus die! 
Tuesday November 8, 1836. I must own my slothfulness, although it grieves me thus to do. What can make men so careless and inactive? for it is a fact that cannot be denied that they labor as little as possible, both mentally and bodily, and get as much as possible for their labor. Is there anything in the atmosphere which induces this slothfulness into the system? or is it the character of the mind and soul to be dormant and inactive? Nay. Is it then the effects of sin and all its concommitant evils? Yea, doubtless. What man might be without sin we know not, but what he is with it we do know to our sorrow and anguish. 
Wednesday November 9, 1836. I am reading Dick on the future state and think it an admirable book on the whole. I was astonished and delighted to see how nearly my own views in regard to many points discussed in his book accorded with his. I had before thought myself singular in belief and imagined I had started some new ideas in regard to the future state, but behold here I find them. 
Thursday November 10, 1836. What is the tendency of Dick's future state on [the] minds of unbelievers? It struck me that it possibly with some 

might tend to make heaven desirable more for its intellectual feasts than for its holiness; just as the degraded Musselman desires heaven because in his estimation it is a sensual paradise. I may be mistaken, however, and hope I am, for doubtless the book is a good one and, rightly used, may exalt our views of God and his holy Habitation. 
Friday, November 11, 1836. I ought to have said that it is pretty sickly in the West College and Soph[omores] and Freshmen are frightened out of their wits, or pretend to be. How averse to mental labor we are. A meager few of men ever apply their minds to any subject out of pure love for research. Inglorious ease is m***th on all our good designs and efforts. 
Saturday November 12, 1836. What student does [not] rejoice when his Prof. omits a recitation? The best do, and the soberest "old fellows" kick up their heels for joy. What tyro does not anticipate Saturday and the approaching holy days with enthusiasm? when his books will be laid aside and his mind may luxuriate in utter carelessness? 
Sunday November 13, 1836. "The world is the field." Here is work for the philanthropist and Christian. You cannot open your eyes without seeing the peaceful [piecemeal?] breaches which sin has made in the beautiful order of creation. You cannot step forth without finding at every habitation something to be done for God, and the amelioration of man's unhappy condition. 
Monday November 14, 1836. How inscrutable are the ways of Providence! How kindly the Lord has dealt with me! A few years ago when I was a wicked careless boy did I expect that I should ever be a Fellow of Union College? True this post is not much, yet it presupposes some merit and attaches some honor to the name of the occupant. Be all the glory thine Oh Lord! for I am unworthy of the least favor. 
Tuesday November 15, 1836. 
PLACEirk*** (?) PARAGRAPH HERE [Ed. Check ms.] 
Wednesday November 16, 1836. Here I have been sitting this half hour with feet thrust over a chair endeavoring to hatch up something new, some novel idea, some weighty [im?]posing old thought with which I might spoil the fair face of this page, and still my laboring mind will bring forth nothing. It strains for a camel but brings forth a [g]nat! Turn we in and slumber on this. 

Thursday November 17, 1836. The man who cannot find out what he was made for by the time he is twenty-three years old is a poor unfortunate fellow and in danger of being a Wriggleous Random all his days. His path will be crooked, his fortune perverse, his pockets empty, his brains "null and void" &c &c. Ten to one he will be a vagabond old bachelor! Woe is me! 
Friday November 18, 1836. The "Journal of the Franklin Institute" is undoubtedly a fine thing for the machinist and scientific man and should be better patronized than it is. I know of no work which has probably done more in its time to raise the tone of public opinion in regard to the useful arts, which has spread so much valuable information, which has elicited so much talent, and awakened so much research as this useful periodical. 
Saturday November 19, 1836. It is a matter of some interest to one in the course of his experience to observe the gradual change in the objects of his pursuit from childhood upwards to old age. 
This diversity of desires, I am inclined to think, is of vast importance in giving us a settled conviction, after having tried all that imagination can fancy to please, that nothing earthly can fill the cravings of an immortal mind, that neither toys, nor love (save that to God) nor honor nor riches can abate that interminable restlessness of the spirit of man. 
Sunday November 20, 1836. I deem it folly in the extreme for we "first day" worshipers to pretend that Holy Writ can warrant the substitution of the "First" for the "Seventh" as the Sabbath. I cannot see a single sentence in the Bible which bids me to think that the Jewish Sabbath is to be perpetuated by an observance of thisá day. The Jewish Laws and Sabbath are all undoubtedly passed away and in their stead Christ's more perfect law has been promulgated and his ascension day has been consecrated by the Church as a flt time for his worship. 
Monday November 21, 1836. Another student (Farrar) has gone to his long home, "where the-wicked cease from troubling and the weary are at rest." The prevailing sickness seems to be the typhus fever; many have the symptoms, many have left --and in fact it is to be feared the College will be dispersed entirely before the close of the term. How stupid we are when death is so nigh. 
Tuesday November 22, 1836. Schenectady is a flt place for hogs, cattle and Dutchmen! They can and do mingle together in all their filth and no one raises his voice against the odi[o]us practice. Every grunter in Dorp (and there are not a few) considers it his privelege to go where he pleases, thrust his nose into any man's door and defile his "stoop" with his slimy side and hoofs. The Dutch have strong stomachs verily, else they could not live with their cattle. 

Wednesday November 23, 1836. While I think of it, now let me speak of the Mohawk & Hudson Railroad which has been in operation about five years. It ought to be as good stock as any in the country, but owing to the mistakes that have been made in its construction, to the two stationary engines and to the various fixtures of either extremity, it is an unprofitable concern. Here is an excellent lesson for railroad makers. Let them profit by the errors of others. Who loses by such foolish investments? The people. We pay seventy-five cents to go to Albany by R. R., formerly sixty-two and a half by Stage. We pay twelve and a half cents for other people's blunders. 
Thursday November 24, 1836. Almanacks are everybody's books -a "sine qua non." Everybody reads the Almanack, either to know when the Eclipse falls out, or what the weather is to be or to know the day of the month. Now it was very cunning in him who first took advantage of this fact to combine moral and religious instruction with the calendar. I think the "Christian Almanack" was the first of the kind that I ever saw. Since then we have had "Comic Almanacks" and "Temperance Almanacks," "Protestant Almanacks," "Davy Crocket's Almanack," and a score of others. All carry facts, something tacked onto the Almanack for the purpose of amusement, of instruction. 
What next? 
Saturday November 26, 1836. Of all the aristocracies that may infest a land, deliver me from that of wealth, which places all title to rank in the mere possession of gold unaccompanied with moral or intellectual worth. Such is our nobility. We worship mammon and are characterized as a nation of money-makers. When will men learn wisdom and judge of men by their true character? Why must reason be so outraged as to see men continually bow the knee to base-gotten wealth -to profligate, low-bred rascals? 
Sunday November 27, 1836. Not a few, I am convinced, instead of making this a holy-day make it a holiday. They may attend church, I admit, but it is only to see or be seen. Many who think themselves Christians little better than profane its sacred hours in listlessness and sloth whilst they should be doing or acting something good. 
Monday November 28, 1836. Last Saturday I was saying something 
about an aristocracy of wealth, and a given specimen we have of it in Sche.nectady. I have known the cream of town to get together of an evening and eat, drink and gamble until many, yea most, were so drunk that they could not get home without help. What taste have such men --literature, absolutely none. They are mere dolts and know more of cock-fighting and carousing than anything beside. 
Tuesday November 29, 1836. I am now a subscriber to the "American Baptist, "published at N. Y., Dr. Goring, Editor --a miserable affair, too, I declare. It is a disgrace to man to be called editor of that paper, much more to the Rev. Dr. who, having arrived at considerable notoriety as a pastor, is now palming off a lean, meagre sheet on to us, not worth certainly the money which we pay for its postage. Shame to the Baptists that they do not support a better paper. 
Wednesday November 30, 1836. How much of one's income is it his duty to bestow on benevolent purposes? Rather a vague question, some may say, for a man's obligation must vary as his circumstances. True, but if by prudence and industry he saves something over and above his annual expenses, what part of this should he dedicate to the Lord? 
The Jews by the Law of Moses gave a tenth. Ought we Christians to give more? Yea, I answer, decidedly on many accounts. 
Thursday, December 1, 1836 .. Cheifly because we have a more extended sphere of benevolence. "The world is the field." The heathens are reaching forth their hands for the Bible and the people are perishing for lack of knowledge. 
Because we have more enlarged means. The Lord has dealt bountifully with this age and nation so that his goodness calls for corresponding proofs of gratitude. 
Friday December 2, 1836. Because we live under a better dispensation 
have gospel as liberal as the most reasonable rich could desire. 
á Because we are God's stewards, who has made us his agents to dispense the fruit of his bounty to the needy, and woe to him who withholds his master's good from the children of want and pampers his own appetite! 
Saturday December 3, 1836. Woe to the rich [man] who defrauds his fellow and robbeth God of his own! Here is a blessed text that I wish may always be written upon my heart: "He that giveth to the Poor lendeth to the Lord." 
Sunday December 4, 1836. It is only our hope of heaven, which like 

an anchor lays hold on immortality, that prevents us wretches from sinking ihto the sloughs of despondency and the gulphs of despair that so thickly lie in our way through life. Religion gone, and the darkness of midnight would brood over our prospects forever. The Bible lost, and eternity would be a sealed book, man a riddle and God a being of awful terror. 
Monday December 5, 1836. My quondam chum Bob Strong writes that [he] is going to New York to study law in the office of A. B. Talmadge of Wall Street. "Push along, keep moving, " that's his motto. He is seeking for preferment and with his business turn of mind and active habits will be sure to attain to it. Success to the deserving! 

Schenectada Tuesday December 6, 1836 Doctor Nott's pithy sayings and wise remarks are always current among his pupils and handed down from class to class as the gems of college wit and wisdom. Of Dorp he is reported to have said "It is the town under the horse's tail," alluding to its filthiness. Correct 'nough in truth but rather vulgar withal. 
Wednesday December 7, 1836. I cannot agree with those who hold to the degeneracy of [our] own times when compared with former generations. Every age grows wiser and I believe better, although it must be confessed this is saying but little in favor of either our morals or our knowledge. Take the best of us and forsooth we shall be found wicked enough and simple enough even though we make the most advantageous comparison with former times. 
Thursday December 8, 1836. It does seem as though heaven and earth was ransacked for means and devices for making money. Nothing is too difficult --nothing is too wicked --nothing is too sacred to be undertaken by modern speculation with the prospect of getting rich. In our days men are made princes and beggars in a day. The wildest schemes are broached and accomplished with a celerity which is truly astonishing. 
Friday December 9, 1836. What were formerly great enterprises and wonders of that day are now of everyday occurence. Speculation is the order of the day, or rather "peculation" I fear it may be too often called. Some speculate in stocks, some in lands, some in -lri:**stuffs and some in merchandise. "Every[thing] is high." The price of eatables is enormous and unaccountably scarce. The Devil seems to have [been] seized with a mania for wealth which may be aptly called a monomania (money-mania). 
Saturday December 10, 1836. Wealth covers a multitude of sins. If you are but rich, care not what the world think of you, you will have friends. If you are a rascal, never mind, with a full purse you may carry a head as high as the best: Even wit is not essential to the world's adulation-.money will buy what brains cannot command or virtue extort from the unwilling. Conscience? Never mention that if you are a gentleman! The world will laugh at you. Money! I say again is the chief good; therefore get it --honestly if you can, but at any rate get money! (The echo of the times.) 
Sunday December 11, 1836. Here is quite too much room to write my religious feelings. I cannot say that [I] feel anything in the shape of pious aspirations. Piety is at low ebb with me; it exists only in name. 

Monday December 12, 1836. I said that this was a speculating age but then I forgot to mention that most cruel and unhappy way of getting riches by marriage, which too many of our youngsters consider to be the legitimate bond of wedlock. I say it is devilish --it is monstrous, thus to degrade, with this most holy and sacred ordinance, thus to tamper with the affections and sympathies for filthy lucre. 
Tuesday December 13, 1836. I know of nothing so unmanly as to marry a lady for her money as though she whom the husband is bound to cherish and support must, contrary to all laws of gallantry and reason, afford the means of his maintenance. If it belongs to either party to look for temporary aid from the other, who can claim this privilege better than the lady? And yet, strange and unnatural as it may seem, it is considered the . greatest accomplishment that a young lady can have to be rich, and the 
first and almost only qualification for a wife. 
Wednesday December 14, 1836. Our young men, I mean all who claim a rank above the commonality, look with far more anxiety for wealthy partners than for lovely and educated. Everything is sacrificed to mammon --happiness, affection, virtue, yea everything that is honorable and lovely. It were far better for a lady ... 
Thursday December 15, 1836 ..... to fall into the hands of a robber than of a fortune-hunting suitor, for the former only takes the purse but the other purse, happiness and all. I could tell tales of misery, yes of splendid misery, which would wring the heart of the hardest profligate --tales of a husband's cruelty to his lovely wife after robbing her of her fortune. 
Friday December 16, 1836. Two students still lie sick of the typhus fever -.Hall and Abel. The former will probably die. Poor fellow, how strong and hearty he was a few days since, now alas how fallen! how lustreless the eye! how sunken the cheeks! how emaciated the limbs! Nevertheless he has made his peace with God, and what need he fear? 
Saturday December 17, 1836. A man's wealth and faults are always over.
rated. 
Sunday December 18, 1836. A preacher is a universal subject of unbounded criticism both in person, dress, and deportment -both abroad and in pulpit. He is the mark against [which] everybody hurls his shaft and seemingly with perfect right, for custom has so sanctioned the practice that no one thinks he is doing any injustice, be his judgement ever so severe. 

Monday December 19, 1836. Public opinion here, however, as in many other cases is completely wrong. A pastor's labors forsooth [are] quite unpleasant enough without the unmerciful condemnation of unqualified censors. If he be in fault, let it be told him privately, but if his errors are too small for such notice, pass them by unmentioned and spare the feelings of the poor man. 
Tuesday December 20, 1836. The world's estimate of true worth is most false and inconsiderate. It judges from appearance and not from the motives; it judges from public deportment and not from private actions. Men regard character in quite a different light from what God does -.they look merely to outward acts but he to our hearts. 
Wednesday December 21, 1836. Among the multitude of instances which might be cited by way of illustration, let us take one. In what light are the comparative merits of Judson and Scott estimated? Does [the world?] accredit the palm to the most worthy or not? The latter has seen the adulation of the world. Every heart has worshipped at the shrine of his genius, but who cares for Judson? He might die and be unwept save by a few Bushears [?] and Christians. Scott died and a world was in mourning. 
Thursday December 22, 1836. But who indeed has benefited his species most of these two great men? Which has most ameliorated the woes of human suffering? Which has brought deliverance to the captive? bound up the wounded spirits? and lighted up the pathway of thousands, nay millions, that were enveloped in thick darkness? 
Friday December 23, 183G. Let eternity answer these questions --the world has already -and if I am not mistaken, man will be ashamed of his judgement. There is no department in life in which the inconsistency of public opinion is not glaringly manifested. The natural man sees everything distorted; he sees men as trees walking. Pre[d]judice and education blind him and interest leads him astray, but God is truth. 
Saturday December 24, 183G. 
II II
1111177?7¥--¥17¥---77?1 I II ( 7 A A A r+ * p] 
¥ ¥ 1 7 
"Stops and marks" are excellent things in their place but, as I often omit them where they should be placed, I here insert a few to make up 

deficiencies wherever they occur. "Mind you stops and marks." 
Sunday December 25, 1836. Religion is a plant of foreign birth transplanted to earth for the healing of man's interminable ills. Its growth is sickly, its stature dwarfish. Our climate and soil are uncongenial to its heavenly nature and with the best care and with the most anxious watching we may hope scarcely to keep it alive. 
Monday December 2G, 1836. "Man, it is too true, by nature is a selfish being; his sorrows and his pleasures are his own. Engrossed by these -.concentrated in himself, his happiness is peculiarly his own. While 'the weak creature of another's sway freely consigns her every feeling, whether of joy or grief, to the control of a master who may, indeed, betimes give of his pity where he wounds; but without a prior interest it is not the devotion of woman can obtain her more." .
Tuesday December 27, 1836. I quoted the above paragraph because I. thought too much of truth was expressed in it to pass without particular notice. Is man "a selfish being," then, in contradistinction to woman? Verily I believe it, and as a general proposition I think it will be found most lamentably true. My own brief experience is enough to verify these broad assertions. I have often looked with ... 
Wednesday December 28, 1836 .... pity upon the confiding and devoted wife whose every wish and affection of her soul was centered in her lordly and selfish husband.~We may boast of the exalted station to which woman is raised in our own civilized country and times, we may talk of her equal rights and equal capacities for improvement and rational enjoyment, finally we may comfort ourselves .. . 
Thursday December 29, 1836 .... that we give woman her due, but the unwelcome truth is manifest in multitudes of instances that she is yet the abject slave of man's pleasure or interest. Man may marry for interest; woman seldom but for affection. Man lives for himself; woman, for another. 
Man seeks the approving gaze of the world; woman's only and highest mede of praise is that of husband. Contrast the heartlessness of the one with the open generous confidence of the other and then say if this mighty parade about woman's station in society and woman's exalted condition is not yet quite as much in name or appearance as in reality. I aver without any fear ... 

Friday December 30, 183G .... of confutation that the damnable and heretical opinion is yet too prevalent that she is the weaker sex, as much in mind as in body. She is too much despised in heart, however much soever in appearance she is esteemed and caressed. Hear what Coleridge says: I think women are generally better creatures than men. They have taken universally weaker appetites and weaker interests, but they have much stronger affections. 
Saturday December 31, 1836. "Better creatures"! aye, as apparent as the sun in the firmament. "Have stronger affections": most assuredly they love with all their might and cling to the object of their passion through every varying scene of life. I wish I could speak so much of man after the honeymoon. 
Sunday January 1, 1837. This is certainly an apt occasion for good resolutions and repentance. Here we stand at the commencement of a new week, month and year. The tablet of the pastáis soiled with foul blots and stains, that of the future yet pure is ready to register the as yet unaccomplished acts and designs of coming time. 
Monday January 2, 1837. "Tie up the knocker, John" Heavens! how harsh that old knocker chimes upon my ears! Upon my word I imagine all the beggars in town have been here today. What an eternal rap! rap! rap! and "Wish you Happy New Year"! --all for what? to get a "cookie." Very well, I think it a pretty custom, it gives bread for one day at least to the hungry . 
Tuesday January 3, 1837. Mar[r]yat[t] as a writer of novels and light trash has attained to considerable celebrity. His books are certainly very readable, very witty and very humorous. His "Peter Simple" is a very pleasant tale containing much interesting incident as well as much that is flat and profane. Cannot the Captain make books which will be popular without filling them with oaths? 
Wednesday January 4, 183 7. Prof. Potter would certainly be a more pleasant and agreeable man were he to lay aside some of that put-on dignity and distance of manner to his inferiors. It really makes one uneasy to be in his presence under such circumstances of embarrassment. 
Thursday January 5, 1837. However,! must say that I respect and revere him very highly and whatever austerity he may at times exhibit attribute more to his office than to the man. He is Dr. Nott's "right-hand man" and main professor; upon him rests the main burthens of the College 

government and discipline and should the "old Dr." be taken away he would probably take his place. 
Friday January 6, 1837. College meets today at the commencement of a new term, but what a sad hole has been made in our numbers! Six young men have fallen victims to disease since the beginning of last term. Unprecedented mortality! Do the living lay it to heart? Nay. The Heavens may open and disclose the beauties of paradise or Hell may send up her dismal moanings, yet men will not consider. Strange infatuation! 
Saturday January 7, 1837. Dyspepsia, melancholy, heart burn, eructions, palpitations, pain in side, hypo, nervousness, watchfulness, dreams, dizziness, and the whole concatenation of ails dependent upon the first.mentioned are more or less mine. I quit this monk's life shortly. I will not be a poor dyspeptic for all the learning in existence. 
Sunday January 8, 1837. Considerable religious [ferment?] in both the Methodist and Baptist Churches. The result appears to be the conversion of several souls. The Lord indeed works by very feeble means and exceedingly humble instruments. He only asks us to trust in him and the work is accomplished by the power of his Spirit. 
Monday January 9, 1837. Teach "Conic Sections, Geometry and Paley's Theology . !!!!!!!!! Old Simon Dederick of my class is married and has one child ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
Tuesday January 10, 1837. Oh these cold Northern winters, --these cold winds and No'theast storms! --these fevers and agues and consumptions! --these blue noses and chattering teeth! Are they not enough to embitter all the pleasures of the other six months? Yet after all there are no people like the Northerners for education and morals and spirit. I like a southern climate but a northern population. 
Wednesday January 11, 1837. Took in Magoun as chum through the winter. Many of our young fellows and girls take fire so quick and make so hasty matches that I can compare them to nothing else but "loco foco" matches. 
Thursday January 12, 1837. I spoke yesterday of hasty inconsiderate matches; now hear the rumor which, if true, fairly illustrates my point. Wilson Ingalls, just now Fellow in Union College, has married a very ordinary, illiterate girl and gone to study his profession at Andover; she, to get an education at Schenectady!! "The more fools they"! 

Friday January 13, 1837. Wilson Ingalls, an old gander, married to a young goose! How came such a nincompoop to be dubbed Fellow of Union College? Let me quote a line from a poet which will explain the whole matter. "Worth makes the man --the want of it, the Fellow." 
Saturday January 14, 1837. It is well if makers of books can make their readers believe all the lies which many of them tell in their Prefaces. Their hearts forsooth seem to run over with the milk of human kindness, they have the most unbounded benevolence, and their only possible object in publishing their book is the profit and pleasure of the reader. Generous, noble-hearted men, they deserve the thanks of a people! Hear them in these short extracts which I shall make on Monday. 
Sunday January 15, 1837. Men are but children with a few additional years upon their heads. They are as much pleased with toys and baubles -.as much taken with appearances --as much devoted to the present --and as regardless of the future as the merest child that prattles upon his mother's knee. Poor deluded man, blind to I?-istrue interests, and heaven. 
Monday January 16, 1837. "In this revision I have thought it best, without specially calling the attention of the reader to them, to correct such errors as my comparatively limited knowledge of the subject assured me would not have been passed over by the Author in a Second Edition." Many to get their name upon the tittle page of a deservedly popular book set about correcting verbal and important err6rs and thereby acquire the honorable appelation of" Editor" to the work. 
Tuesday January 17, 1837. Hear what another says who has collected a few sayings of an eminent man. "And I can truly say that if, in the course of the perusal of this little work, any one of its readers shall gain a clearer insight into the deep and pregnant principles in the light of which Mr. C. was accustomed to regard God and the world, I shall look upon the publication as fortunate and consider myself abundantly rewarded for whatever trouble it has cost me." 
Wednesday January 18, 1837. Who believes such ridiculous professions? He did not expect anything in the shape of bank bills and glory in return for his laborious exertions? Nonsense!! 
Thursday January 19, 1837. Hear another modest author overflowing with benevolence to his race! "He can only say that what he has written has proceeded from the purest desire to promote the improvement of youth! 
7_70 
and that he should never [have] thought of troubling the world with his publication if he could have found on any of the subjects he has treated a book adapted to his purpose." 
Friday January 20, 1837. It is useless to multiply examples on this subject when everyone who will take the trouble of reading the prefaces of our modern books will find to his entire satisfaction proofs of the philanthropv of our book-makers. They profess to live only to please the public and benefit their race while in fact they are as heartless of consequences as a Chinese if only they can find a ready sale for their labors and a plentiful return of cash and literary fame. 
Saturday January 21, 1837. What a cold, bleak, spot "College Hill" is! It seems to be the gathering point of all the storms and winds that course over the earth in winter. Stand between the Colleges and a fierce Borean Is always raging, almost stripping your garments from your back and pinching the blood out your body. Fancy he will not meddle with my nose so rudely another winter. 
Sunday January 22, 1837. One Whiting, a Baptist of New York, has. undertaken to revise our translation of the Bible and substitute for the words "Baptism" "Baptise" &c &c. others which more nearly agree with the spirit of the original. In other words he proposes to make a Baptist Bible, for undoubtedly it will be used only by such. I doubt the expedience of such a work which promises still more to áwiden the breach between ourselves and other denominations, already wide enough, ... 
Monday January 23, 1837 .... which can do no possible good with them because they will not buy it, nor with ourselves because we are sufficientlv Baptists already; and finally which is opening the door to other and more objectionable criticisms on the Sacred Text. The precedent is bad, and I object to it with all my heart. 
Tuesday January-29, 1837. Translating the scripture into other languages in which they have never yet been read I most cordially agree with, who transfer not a single word because such would be unintelligible to the untutored mind, but since we all have known from our childhood the meaning of the word "baptize, which has been transplanted for two hundred years into our language and grown there until it has become anglicized, I see no good reason at this late period to cast it out. 
Wednesday January 25, 1837. Our Congress in my humble [opinion] is most foully corrupt both in morals and political integrity. "Party" is the 
77( 
watchword and the rallying point at every contest by vote. "Party" swallows up the only true interests of the country. It wants time, money, good feeling, and all correct principles. It is lamentable that such should be the state of affairs. 
Thursday January 26, 1837. Can the people be expected to remain virtuous when those in "high places" drink to drunkenness at the fountain of corruption? Can our rulers degenerate into mere partisans or one man sacrifice the public good to his own emolument, and the people not catch the spirit of degeneracy? 
Friday January 27, 1837. Newspapers and other periodical publications seem to deluge this whole country. Every village and hamlet have their printing press and little weekly (weakly?) sheet teeming with information of the most momentous consequence to all gossips and village politicians. Yea, imagine the sage remarks upon Webster's last speech in Congress! Figure to yourself the ghastly form of countenance and long sighs as the last steamboat disaster is announced to the nationly[?] dames. 
Saturday January 28, 1837. But where is any pure reasoning? Amongst so many publications there must necessarily be an immense dearth of good sense and composition and a vast amount of trash merely. So it will be found. Yet on the whole I cannot say that I should like to see these weakly sheets discontinued. 
Sunday January 29, 1837. I hold it to be a sin to slander a minister, for he is the Lord's Servant, but upon my soul I cannot but consider our Pastor Mr. Gillett an old granny. His piety indeed is undoubted, his success likewise as a pastor and preacher, yet as a man and companion I can see little to admire or love. He is always whining over his troubles and recounting his labors among the people. 
Monday January 30, 183 7. Laugh, O pen, until you split thyself to the feather!! Cacchinate, 0 Goose Quill, until the fluid runs dry from the point! For Wilson Ingalls, formerly (Tutor!) in Union College, is married to Mrs. Siterly, she being at the Female Seminary preparing herself for a minister's wife and he at the Seminary at Andover studying for the Ministry. 
Tuesday January 31,1837. Both are great fools and consummate simpletons. I did suppose Ingalls capable of exhibiting a little good sense on some occasions but this last act of folly has stamped the seal of stupidity forever. Married? to whom? An ignorant, witless girl, an equal companion forsooth! I can imagine the whole scene just as it took place. 

Friday February 1, 1837. He boarded at her father's, a comfortable farmer, for a year at times, and in this time became acquainted with his family. The girl, like all other frisky things of her stamp, showed him great attentions because he was a "College larnt man," and because he was somewhat attentive to her. The old man asked him nothing for board and at his departure the family were very sorry and the girl "sniffled." Poor Ingalls was cut to the heart with their grief and, as he had before determined to marry the farmer's daughter at some future time from motives of gratitude and appetite, he thought he might as well settle the matter at once and hinder all distrust of his sincerity and cancel the great debt that he owed the family. 
Saturday February 2, 1837. Sic transit gloria &c. Marriage is honorable forsooth, but then why need a man tumble into it as if by chance and expose himself to all the ridicule of his friends which his conduct deserves? Why should he attempt to conceal what the veriest fool ought to have known could not be kept secret and which the very fact of his intended concealment would make appear infinitely ridiculous? 
Sunday February 3, 1837. The result of the protracted meeting held in our church at the opening of the new year has been the conversion of some 4 souls of whom 22 have been already baptized, the awakening of the church and a cementing together in bonds of brotherhood. Old wounds are healed and old injuries forgotten. 
Monday February 4, 183 7. It spoils most of our young men to cross the Atlantic. They come back with their heads filled with foreign notions, with foreign fashions, with mustachios so that one would think that the salt water had transformed them into complete apes. Our literary men are not much better; they cringe and flatter for the purpose of pleasing the aristocracy and fashion, and if noticed at a[ll] are so puffed up with aristocratical notions that our simple republican manners are absolutely disgusting to them. 
Tuesday February 5, 1837. Is not N. P.Willis' head "turned" or how could he write so many foolish things. Some of his letters from Europe are absolute nonsense; he indulges in personal reflections altogether inadmissible, he publishes the conversation and opinions of men on subjects and under circumstances quite improper, and finally how much soever he has written well, I fear he is now relaxing from the labor of writing well or resorting to artifices to make his writings readable which will not long serve his purpose. 

Wednesday February 6, 1837. I have thought that Irving had fallen into some of the like faults, but perhaps not, and if he did his reasons may be sufficient excuse. I suppose he depended upon his pen for subsistence; what then could he expect unless he pleased the public and fell in with the prevailing habits and thoughts of those who were able to patronize? 
Thursday February 7, 1837. Where is Cooper, the novelist who since "Lang Syne" enchanted the world with his books? I am told he is putting forth another book --of Travels in Europe or Sketches of Switzerland, something of that kind. What a falling-off has there been in some of his last works. 
Friday February 8, 1837. His inspiration seems to be departing; perhaps he has already had sufficient of this world's adulation and is now living upon his former celebrity. Howbeit, his meddling with politics was particularly unfortunate and his meddling with the wine bottle, I am told, is still more so. 
[Gap from February 8 to March 1, 1837] 
Wednesday March 1, 1837. I was last evening reading the very flat sentiment of a newspaper scribbler on the subject of the goodness of the human heart ! How happy, quoth he "the man who has so good a heart," after enumerating a dozen stupid qualities which at the best were mere moral qualities. Oh it is sickening, it is passing foolish, to hear men who have seen naught of human nature extolling his natural goodness. It is all fudge! You may as well talk of the natural goodness of the Devil! There is no necessity of Divine Revelation to -convince us of man's depravity; we have a daily revelation of it before our eyes as appaling and damning as Holy Writ ever portrayed in its most forcible language. Tomorrow let me make an illustration. 
Thursday March 2, 1837. The inhabitants of Texas from accounts are rather given to vice and dissoluteness. I have been told by Prof. Yates, whose brother resides there, that the women have no virtue or any sense of modesty, the peculiar charm of their sex. For an example: A young man who by bad behavior had dishonored his family and was discarded fled to Texas and became intimate with the daughter of an old fellow of that country worth his million. He married her and spent his honeymoon at "the Falls." On his way down the Mississippi returning, his wife ran away with a Mulatto. Finally it turned out that this very girl had been debauched by her reported father, and that she was the fruit of an intercourse by which her mother cuckolded the old man! What man can say that his own heart 
77'(.
is not susceptible of the same degrading passions? 
Friday March 3, 183 7. In spite of all the efforts which the friends of Temperence have made in College recently for the suppression of Intemperence, it is notorious that a large number of young men indulge in the habitual use of ardent spirits even to excess. I think it may be said with truth, as it has been, that more drunkards will come out of four classes now in College than have left this Institution for ten years. 
To account for such lamentable profligacy is beyond my comprehension. It seems, though, there was a periodic ebb and flow of intemperance and that now there was a Spring tide. It is truly awful to contemplate among the youthful forms which so often assemble in these halls so many who will be the future curse of their species, the blight upon their parent's hearts and the disgrace of their families and friends. When will men learn wisdom and the simple be taught knowledge? 
Saturday March 4, 1837. Today, Van Buren attains the height of his ambition. A College satire[was] published yesterday, in which was much wit, much slang, and much stupidity; however, it serves its purpose to stir up the stagnant mind of students, to give them a topic of conversation, and a relief from other less-relished subjects of thought. 
It cannot be denied that even Freshmen have some wit. Hear a specimen and judge: This morning their tutor (Mr. Reed) found the following announcement written upon the walls of the recitation room; "The animals will be fed precisely at eight o'clock," alluding evidently to the fact that the class would not get their breakfast till that hour, a circumstance which was by no means consoling, and which it was hoped this hint would remove. 
Sunday March 5, 183 7. I do believe there is much truth in the reniark, which I not long since heard Doct. Nott make, that it was impossible for one to think of God without thinking of death at the same time. They are indeed often associated together in our minds, filling them at times with fearful forboding-and again with elevated and heavenly anticipation. 
Oh how good Our Heavenly Father is to give to man the antidote for death --that which will extract his sting and rob the grave of its terror. Give me the hope of the Christian and what more do I want? 
Is it not sufficient to bear me above all the ills of life and the dread of dissolution? Will it not calm the perturbated passions of the soul? Will it not content the hungry desire of the immortal mind? Yea, and what will it not do for poor man? 
Monday March 6, 1837. What thinks Jonathan of going to Texas "to seek 

[his] fortune"? This bookish life is killing thee, thy health suffers and thy mind sympathizes and pines to be away. 
The "Texas fever," after all, perhaps is not all "moonshine." There is a little spice of adventure in the idea, it is true, but this you like. What will hinder that from becoming a great and powerful republic? Its climate is delightful, its soil is fertile, and its location is admirable for commerce. Unquestionably it is destined to take a stand among nations. 
Tuesday March 7, 183 7. Our Senate has already recognized its independence, and if Santa Anna arrives at Mexico with his head on his shoulders it may be expected that his influence will be exerted in the Mexican Congress to have its independence fully established. 
Wednesday March 8, 1837. I am resolved to quit college and pedagoguing forever. My health will not permit me to follow such a manner of life. For two years now I have been more or less afflicted with a pain in [my] side and palpitation -the concomitants of Dyspepsia. In such a state of body, my mind becomes depressed and I become offended at the very thought of a sedentary life. 
Thursday March 9, 1837. Therefore I am resolved to bestir myself and follow some other calling, perhaps Engineering, for I had rather carry a 
hod upon my shoulder acquirements with a diimcomparable blessing.  with health than possess seased body. A sane and  the sound  most frame  splendid is an  
Friday March 10, 1837.  Snow becomes water.  

Winter becomes spring. 
Van Buren became President the 4th of March, at which glorification speeches and dinners and toasts were current among his friends because he came in President, but among the Opposition because Jackson went out. What will become-of the currency of the [country] if Van Buren follows out the measures of his predecessor, no one can tell. It IS sufficient to know now that it is deplorable. Money is now in all but our principal cities at twenty, thirty and forty percent interest and scarce at that. 
Saturday March 11, 18 3 7. Engaged cturing the day with Prof. Savage making the Protoxide of Nitrogen, commonly called "Exhilarating Gas." I have somewhere else mentioned my profound respect and admiration of my friend Savage's talents, and I again reiterate the same opinion. He is a young man of uncommon worth and promise. He is master of whatever he 
776 
undertakes. 
Owing to ill health I some weeks since gave up two of my recitations to Villeroy D. Reed, my old friend and classmate, who will probably be stationed here permanently if I leave. 
Sunday March 12, 1837. From all that I can judge it is my opinion that the English Bible should be revised and amended. As it is, many parts are absolutely unintelligible from the use of words which since King James' time have either become obsolete or mean what they did not then. Add to this that the book is badly punctuated, that subjects are separated by chapter or verse that intimately relate to each other, and I imagine that I have obvious reasons for such an opinion. The old monk who first divided the Sacred Writ in chapters and verses might have been employed in much better business. It has led to greater obscurity and consequent dislike of the Bible than almost any other one thing. The Bible should be published like other books, and preachers should drop the stupid practice of tacking 
á a verse of scripture to their sermons as a matter of course. I am disgusted with modern sermons. 
Monday March 13, 1837. Miss Leslie has written a very pretty book called the "Rich Poor Man and the Poor Rich Man." The title will sufficiently define the moral of this simple tale which I am confident may be read with profit by every family of the land. 
I have but one fault now in my mind which I think to be a drawback to the interest I felt in this delightful book; that is, it has no catastrophe, which is an unpardonable fault in a tale or story of any kind. A tale 
without a catastrophe This book ought  is as unnatural as a cat without a tail. to find a place in our Sunday School libraries.  
Tuesday March 14, 1837. Glorious times for "Dorp"! She shines resplendent in mud and water! Remove filth out of her, make her and decent, and she would no longer be Dorp.  forth clean  

Schenectada is only another name for all that [is] narrow in municipal pollcy,-that is mean in public spirit, that is unsightly in outward appearances land uncomfortable in life. It is Dutch in its length and breadth, Dutch in language and manners, Dutch in its neglect of everything that is comfortable and respectable and --it is Dutch, Dutch, Dutch!! That is the best description that can be given to one who knows the Dutch character. The Dutch neat? Where are the signs of their cleanliness! They are filthy as sows! The Dutch neat? "Oh, never mention it!" Such a lie will make the heavens blush for shame. 
Wednesday March 15, 1837. "Hard Times!" says the citizen who has to pay 
777 
twelve dollars a barrel for flour. "Hard times!" says the Countryman who can not get three shillings a pound for his butter, which is half lard. "Hard times!" says the speculator when the banks refuse to discount, because their agents in New York can "shave" notes at two and three percent per month. 
"Hard times!" is in everybody's mouth, both honest man and rascal (save the "shavers") and in every newspaper that flows from the Press. 
Thursday March 16, 1837. But as to the cause all differ and some cry one thing and some another. 
"Down with the banks"! 'away with your rags"! cry the "Loco Focos." 
"Metallic currency and easy times!"say the true Bentonians. The Jackson men curse the "Monster.11 The opposition, the "Specie Circular. " Some say the short crops and influx of emigration cause a scarcity of provisions, and the great body of people lay all the blame of "Hard Times" at the door of speculators. 
Friday March 17, 183 7. I believe that some if not all of the above causes combined have had a tendency to bring [about] the existing state of things. Our banking system is corrupt. The" Specie Circular" by its operation has drawn much of the coin into our Western States and drained our Eastern Bank, who of course have drawn in their debts and curtailed their business as a necessary act of fortification. 
Saturday March 18, 1837. Add to this the wild and headlong Spirit of Speculation and the scarcity of provisions, and the difficulty is swelled to an enormous size, bearing hardly upon the business men and industrious poor. 
Sunday March 19, 1837. Blaise Pascal was a wonderful man of whom any country may be proud. Yes and I might say, church. He belonged to the Catholic, which persecuted him while living and eulogized him when dead, and she had nothing to fear from [him] in censuring her corruption and abuses. Pascal's mind was of the first order --acute and strong. 
Monday March 20, 1837. Hon. Joseph C. Yates died yesterday at the age of sixty-nine years. He was first Governor under the new Constitution in the years '22 and '23 and for the last ten years has lived in retirement. He is said to have been a man of moderate capacity and little energy and to have been made a mere tool or scapegoat to bear away the sins of certain unpopular measures, at the ushering of the Constitution. 
Tuesday March 21, 1837. Prof. Yates told me this morning that formerly he 
778 
was a man of studious habits and strict attention to business, but that ever since he retired from active life and mental exercise his mind had been failing until he became a mere child. 
Wednesday March 22, 1837. I am in a state of conflicting 11betweenity. 11 College wants my services for one term more, and altho it has no claims to them inasmuch as I have obtained a substitute in Mr. Reed, yet if it were consistent with my arrangements for the future and with my health should be pleased to assist in keeping the old wheels moving. But why should I sacrifice health to the desire of living in inglorious ease even if it be attended with some degree of honor and emolument? Even if it be attended by literary pleasures, which of all other intellectual pursuits are the most lasting and honorable? 
I would like to continue a literary life and be a Professor but I well know that the consequences would [be] a lasting and protracted debility of body arising from want of necessary exercise. I am induced too from another consideration to continue a bookish man from the pride of my heart which revolts at exercising a more humble profession for the purpose of a livelihood. But isi t right that I should such reflections of regret at leaving a favorite employment and of pride on entering an humbler one, considering the circumstances which occasion this removal? 
Thursday March 23, 1837. Read Gouge's book on the "American Banking System," a work which has given me much insight into the art, but which on the whole I cannot say that I am pleased with. I think that he carries his notions of Species Currency too far [for] the good of a commercial and enterprising community --notions which possibly might be tolerated in a despotic country where trade and spirit were stifled by arbitrary laws, but not under a government like ours. I would approve of doing away with bank notes of small denominations and in their place substitut[ing] gold and silver, but still I cannot buth think [them?] useful. 
Friday March 24, 1837. Dr. Nott must now be near seventy years of age, near half of which he has spent as President of this Institution. Under his auspices it has uniformly risen in the estimation of the public until it now stands among the first colleges in the country. 
Hitherto the Doctor has preached little, but has been cheifly occupied, 
besides his collegiate duties, in improvements on stoves and steam.boilers. Since his failure last fall, he seems to [have] entirely left his affairs in the hands of his sons and turned his attention more to the College and pulpit. He has preached more within three months than in the preceding five years. Thus the Doctor is mending his ways. 

Saturday March 25, 1837. Delightful day. Spring is opening with splendor and great beauty. The robin has returned and nature seems again returning to youth. How cheerful is now the heart of man! How pleasure beams in his countenance! But, alas, there is a worm gnawing at the root of his happiness which throws a shade over his brightest day. Disease and death alike come in our happiest moment and in the most disastrous moments of our lives. The heart may swell with pleasure, the eye may beam with delightful satisfaction, but then the cold chilling thought rushes over our fond hopes like the deadly winds of Sahara. 
Oh how can man live an unreligious being? How can he sport with even the most exciting pleasures, except the consolation of religion stay his flagging spirits and decaying hopes? 
Sunday March 26, 1837. Glorious day. The heavens smile upon us with 
most benignant countenance. Nature is resuscitated and all her creatures 
are happy but man. 
Here he cannot be. Here~after he may be. With every breath he inspires he takes in a poisonous atmosphere, with every pulsation his system is liable to disarrangement, and every lingering pain to which he is daily subject warns him of his mortality. Oh áhow can reasonable beings be so infatuated with this short pilgrimage! How can they long to stay here when death calls them home; yea home, for eternity is their habitation. 
Monday March 27, 1837. Examination.of the Freshman Class was brought on before the Committee this afternoon. 
To what a provoking and inconvenient pitch of pedantry our novel.makers and newspaper scribblers have arrived! How astonishingly impudent! How unmannerly and disrespectful to their tongue! I have just thrown by Willis' "pencillings by the way" in disgust because, among many other flat things unworthy such a mind, he has adopted that unmanly habit fit only for scavengers of newspapers of bespattering writings with French words and phrases. I wish the English was sufficiently copious for him. I am sure his works would be read with more pleasure and profit. Willis is, however, no more obnoxious to this charge than others. A sprinkling of foreign dialects is now indispensable to season a book well and make it gustable. Else who would know that the author was learned and moved in "G ood Society"? To puzzle a reader or hearer with quotations is a sure mark of breeding and gives one a little [appearance?] of being profound, although incomprehensible! 
Tuesday March 28, 1837. John Foster, Fellow, will leave at the end of this term and take charge of an Academy in Albany for which reason I have been persuaded to stay another term or until another person can be 
780 
obtained, on the condition of having but two recitations. 
Wednesday March 29, 1837. Water in the Mohawk up, and still rising. Ice moved down this evening. Hudson cleared. itself also rather later than usual, I think, this spring. My class on Conic Sections did themselves much honor at the Examination. 
Thursday March 30, 1837. I am degenerating, of a truth, into a lazy listless mode of thinking and living. Where are my industrious habits of study for which I was distinguished in days gone by? Shame to me! Sinner that I am, how many minutes do I lose, nay hours? 
Friday March 31, 183 7. The influence of bad books upon the morals of men is deplorable, the consequences are disastrous to our morals, not only corrupting the mind of men but giving them a distaste to all better reading. "Light Reading" is all that our minds can relish, like stomachs vitiated by high seasoned food, comfits and cakes. Our intellectual taste can not relish a more substantial diet. 
Saturday April 1, 1837. Obscene books are the greatest incentives to lust that we now have amongst us, which together with the theatre set all our youth a whoring. They set our smothered passions on fire and incite us to the gratification of our abominable appetites in the most unlawful and disgraceful way. Oh Mores! 
Sunday April 2, 1837. E. A Huntington preached in the Dutch Church for Dr~ Van Vechten; he did very well for a young man, although I thought he overacted his performance in attempting to show what I knew he did not feel. A man who reads sermons might better put his hands in his breeches' pockets. They would certainly appear better than they would swinging about his head whilst his head is thrust down to his ms. Written sermons are the greatest clog upon the efficacy of our ministry that I know of. Of all public speakers our sermon-readers produce least effect, such at least as they would wish-to produce. They charm their hearers to sleep, indeed, and that is all. 
Monday April 3, 1837. Money matters are in an exceedingly bad state. I am told that such distress in our commercial affairs has not been known for twenty yearsá-since the close of the last war when so many banks stopped payment of specie for their notes. 
I am convinced that much blame should be attached to some of our politicians for meddling with the monetary affairs of our country and wresting the banks from honest and experienced men and putting them into the care of time-serving partisans who pervert them to vile party 

purposes. 
Tuesday April 4, 183 7. Great men pass for more than they are worth by those who know them not; by those who know them well, are underrated. The same men upon whom I looked with passing respect and awe five years ago, I despise, and those in all probability who now claim my respect will as many years hence be in the like condition of opinion. 
Wednesday April 5, 1837. Monsieur de la Bruyere's "Characters, or Manners of the Age" is an excellent book full of wisdom and sage reflections. It is an old book and perhaps not much read; nevertheless its merits cannot be judged thereby, for nothing pleases now but modern 
type, good paper, and super-gilt binding. Our old dish of roast beef doesn't suit modern palates unless it be served in china dishes and is so disguised by spices and high seasonings that one may not know whether he is eating fish or flesh. 
Thursday April 6, 1837. How much easier to read a good book than make one; how much easier to steal an idea than originate one. Originality? There is none. We have no use for the word, since the occasion which brought it into use is removed. We only republish what has been published a thousand times and serve up old ideas in new forms and disguises. 
Friday April 7, 1837. Graffed is the mayor of a city, the owner of great possessions and bears great honor among men who know little of his private character. Good cheer and the wine bottle tell upon him, both in the rubicundity of his phiz and the rotundity of his abdomen. 
He is a bachelor from necessity ('tis said) because he cannot perform all the duties of a husband, having been disabled in his youth by some unlucky disease. I cannot vouch for this, but so common report says. By intrigue and money he has obtained the votes of his district and is made a member to Congress. Alas my country! when such men bear rule. 
Saturday April 8, 183 7. We have too many of this class in office, men who would sell their country for a mess of pottage. It is proverbial that "An honest man cannot get an office." He that does not descend to low trickery and wheedle the multitude and pamper the evil propensities of the vulgar with money or grog cannot succeed. 
Sunday April 9, 1837. "Woe is me for I am a man of unclean lips" --and thoughts and actions. Do I not steal the livery of Heaven to serve the Devil in? My religion is but skin-deep. I am a fair-weather Christian, a halting pilgrim, a willing, consenting captive to sin. I may deceive men but "Thou God seest me." I am as open to this as the day. 

Monday April 10, 1837. The great absorbing topic of a woman's mind is dress and shows. They know that they are beautiful and strive to set off their comeliness to the best advantage. Who knows better the price of goods and the latest fashions? who knows better where good silks and calicoes may be found? Beauty is a woman's stronghold which, if skilfully managed, may accomplish much good. 
Tuesday April 11, 1837. I would that they considered not only that we men are caught thereby, but that we are also held thereby. A woman should please before marrige, yea, and much more should she strive to do so after.á In default whereof how many have estranged the affections of their partners and planted a thorn in their own bosoms. 
Wednesday April 12, 1837. Chaste wives herein might learn something from unchaste wenches, who labor as hard to retain their lovers as to obtain them. Shame to a scolding slut, with shoes down at heel and stockings dangling about her ankles, and hair uncombed, and dress disordered from negligence! Can she make an agreeable companion? Nay, her husband often mates with whores [rather] than her. 
Thursday April 13, 1837. The "Persian Letters" are surely pretty, and written in true Asiatic style. The author has shown therein ingenuity and talent. Having imagined himself in the place of an Eastern man he has generally carved out the character to perfection. Of questionable morality, however. 
Friday April 14, 1837. I am astonished at the fewness of man's real wants. What of all these luxuries which wealth creates is necessary to the comfortable enjoyment of life and health? 
Because we are clothed in costly apparel and fare sumptuously, because we reside in splendid mansions and have many servants at our command, it surely should not [be] argued that therefore we are the happier for all these superfluities or that they are necessary to our happiness. Poor creatures of the dust whose breath is in our nostrils, and who are today, and tomorrow are not, why should we be so anxious about many things? Why should we vex our souls for that which perishes with the using? 
Saturday April 15, 1837. When we pray we seldom have any definite petition, but stray at random over the whole field of Christian benevolence. 
783 
This should not be. Neither ought our prayers be so long as to make all knees weary and tax one's patience beyond endurance. Short, appropriate petitions at the throne of grace are certainly a delightful fragrance to the Almighty and refreshing [to] his creatures. 
Sunday April 16, 1837. In addressing the throne of Grace I have thought we should first hallow the name of God, this being Christ's example in his celebrated form taught to his disciples. Then we may humble ourselves by acknowledging our sins and asking forgiveness for the same arid by free and full repentance. 
Monday April 17, 1837. Here is room for the most limited capacity to find much to say, and the more open our outpourings of heart to God, the more may we ease our burdened spirits. In connection with this we should speak of the Great Sacrifice by which we [are] brought unto a throne of Grace. This theme is enough to occupy the mind for ages and expand it to its utmost capacity. 
Tuesday April 18, 1837. I hear from the pulpit and from laity the oft.repeated story of the Christian's wrongs and buffetings in this world, that really one would think he was hunted from the face of the earth. Now what is the true state of the case? Is the profession of religion then so unpopular as they have us to believe? 
Wednesday April 19, 1837. Must a man forego personal safety, civil privileges, and public respect in becoming a Christian? By no means. His weight of character is on the contrary greatly increased and no man passes for more in the estimation of a community than the consistent follower of Christ. Religion is not unpopular. The experience of every man is to the contrary. 
Hudson River Thursday April 20, 1837. The whole day has found me busied in preparing for a trip to Philadelphia, to visit my friends and attend the Bible Convention of our denomination. 
At 3 was whisked off towards Albany at a rapid rate by steam. What wonders this invention of the Steam Engine has effected! It is a majestic sight to see a train of carriages with a locomotive at their head moving off at the rate of thirty miles an hour and bidding defiance to every obstruction, scouring the country with the quickness of light and annihilating space! A few years may super[s]ede even this great facility and introduce a still greater. 
Took passage in a new boat called the Swallow, which was crowded to excess. Oh a night on board such a craft! It is sufficient to drive one 

crazy. Sleep you cannot, for it is thump, thump all night. 
New York April 21, 1837. Arrived in city at 2 o'clock in nine hours from Albany! What would our fathers have sald to this? I have often spoke of New York; more would perhaps be needless, but one thing astonished me --to see such a sight as is presented upon the "Burnt District." The whole space of many acres which one year ago was in ruins is now covered with splendid stores erected in the most costly and fire-proof manner! What people but this is capable of such a work? What city but this could [have] arisen like a Phoenix from his ashes and sat like that fabled bird new-clothed in the vigor of youth? This is the wonder of wonders. 
Visited Staten Island. New Brighton is beyond commendation. It is a paradise, beautiful beyond imagination. I have nowhere seen more ele.gance of taste displayed than in the classic richness of the architecture of the country seats. Wealth has a power of magic! 
Bob Strong studies or rather practices law in Judge Talmadge's office in Wall Street. I really cannot see what time pe gets for his books. 
Philadelphia 
Saturday April 22, 1837. Arrived at Philadelphia without any new strange or alarming event! Found friends well and apparently glad to see me. 
Oh the city of brotherly love is the place for me after all! I never was content in any place beside. Had I a fortune sufficient it should be my residence, but that never will be. I must struggle with poverty and discontent, pride and indecision. 
Sunday April 23, 1837. Here we have it --three inches of snow and sleet! Is this Philadelphia climate ? I'll return to Dorp where snow comes in its proper season. Weather cannot be more disagreeable. Och! Och! Friend Gillett as of old. Two strangers aided him. That's all. 
Monday April 24~ 1837. Spent much of the day in bookstores rummaging over musty tomes. Visited a few friends and the Academy of Fine Arts where West's picture of Death on the Pale Horse is now exhibited. Grand, sublime affair! 
The women of Philadelphia excel those of any other city in the beauty of their personal appearance, dress and neatness. Their apparel is less splendid and gaudy than that of N. Y. ladies but much more becoming. Philadelphia has a style of dress peculiar to itself as well as a style of architecture. 
Tuesday April 25, 1837. This day delegates met and organized a convention for the State. Of all men the Baptists of Philadelphia have the greatest itch for speech-making in public meetings and the least aptness for energetic action. They will trot all day in a half-bushel measure. 
Wednesday April 26, 1837. Morning. Meeting of the Foreign Missions Society at ten o'clock. Report read by Dr. Bolles of Boston. Affairs generally prosperous. Afternoon. Three o'clock. Bible Convention at Dr. Brantley's church. Dr. Babcock appointed President. Baron Stow and Abdiel Sherwood [of] Georgia, Sec[retaries]. Speeches by Spencer H. Cone, Dr. Brantly and others. I presume such a meeting of our denomination never before convened: more than 200 [400?] delegates are present representing Baptists of 24 states and the District of Columbia. 
The talent, wisdom, and influence of the Baptists are here, and although there is a mighty difference of opinion on the subject which we have convened to discuss, yet we hope by mutual concession to be able to meet on some common ground which will unite the whole bodv of Baptists~ 
The New England delegation generally wish no distinct organization, but think our Mission Society, the headquarters of which is at Boston, fully adequate to all foreign distribution and the American Bible Society for domestic. The New York Baptists and the Middle, Southern and Western, want a new Society, and the majority a Society founded on the broadest principles. "The World is the Field" in their estimation. 
Thursday April 27, 1837. The whole convention have come to this point: we must have a distinct organization, but here we split on this question: Shall it be both foreign and domestic or only foreign? The majority want a Society unrestricted in its operations, but a few are strenuous for confining it solely to foreign distribution. 
Here the question has stood all day and been discussed and tossed on every side. It has elicited some pretty warm speech and much talent and eloquence. 
Mr. Welch of Albany spoke this evening in one of the most perfect bursts of eloquence that I ever heard from the lips of man. Every soul seemed to hang upon his lips as if by enchantment, and hardly a breath was drawn during his speech. The effect was thrilling and electric and at the close every auditor wished to applaud . He is certainly one of the most wonderful men of our country. Without education or the encouragements of friends, at the age of twenty-eight he left his trade (engraver's) and commenced preaching. Since that time he has arisen to an eminence from which he can overlook almost every clergyman in our land. 
Dr. Wayland spoke. He is not a very pretty speaker but a man of 
78b 
great talents and eruditio What a head for the phrenologist! His forehead hangs over his face like an over-hanging rock of a precipice. Dr. Sharp spoke. In him I was rather disappointed. He would have done better on the other side of the question. 
Mr. Hague of Boston is a smart young man and he knows it. This has spoilt him. I fear too much prosperity and adulation will ruin the poor youth. 
Friday April 28, 1837. The debate has been prolonged through the day and evening and finally was unanimously settled by this compromise. The Bible Society shall confine its operation to foreign distribution during this year; and at the next meeting of the Triennial Convention the denomination shall signify their wishes in regard to domestic distribution. The debate today was animated [but] exhibited the spirit of forebearance and concession. Elan Galusha made a great speech tonight, full of point and eloquence. 
Finally the deed is done which forms us into a Bible Society --a deed which will undoubtedly be the cause of joy in heaven and in earth by the souls which may be redeemed through its instrumentality. Tomorrow the officers are to be chosen, constitution proposed and the location established. But I must leave in the morning's boat. 
Brabrook and wife(!!) are here on their way to St. Louis where he is to take charge of a Baptist Church. Saw also Illsbry and Porter, old classmates in Waterville. The former to be settled in Brooklyn, the latter already in Lowell. 
Saturday. April 29, 1837. All along the way, bright sunny day Among our passengers were many delegates of the Convention returning home, which made my morning's ride much more agreeable. 
My old friend Ilsley is really doing well, having already before he leaves the Seminary been chosen pastor of one of the best churches of Brooklyn. He succeeds Leland Howard and has a salary of twelve hundred dollars. May heaven pamper his labors! 
New York never looked more beautifully than this afternoon as we neared the "Queen of the West." Left the city at five o'clock on the steamboat Swallow which was followed by the Rochester in chase. Perhaps two boats never were never so equally mated in speed from New York to Newburgh. I do not think the distance between them five rods notwith.standing both were pressing all the power possible. Pitch wood was used on board both boats and split into small bits for the purpose of raising the greater heat. 
If one has not been on board a boat at such a time [he] can conceive with difficulty of the excitement which reigns among the passengers and 
787 
men, the pale and affrighted looks among the women and the significant 
glances of the men. If it be in the night the spectacle is doubly heightened 
by the mingled clouds of fire and smoke which pour from the chimneys. 
The race was over, however, before we arrived at Newburgh on account of the breaking of something on board of the Rochester. We accomplished the distance to Newburgh in three hours, sixteen minutes, which is said to be a quick passage. There is no sleep to my eyes on a boat. Comfort flees and noise with confusion succeed. 
Schenectada 
Sunday April 30, 1837. Arrived early this morning at home much fatigued 
and sleepy. Heard a very considerable quantity of rant at our church. 
Union College Monday May 1, 1837. Commenced operations in College by giving my boys their lessons for tomorrow. I feel completely "blue" and have been so since I came from Philadelphia. I can like Dorp no longer. I cannot say that I ever did, but the sight of it now "gives me the horrors." 
Tuesday May 2, 1837. Have two recitations --Algebra in morning and Geometry in P .. M. Anticipate pleasant and easy term. Have charge of Foster's Section. Pretty good set of boys, I think. 
Weather quite cool as yet. The whole country seems to be on the eve of bankruptcy. Since the formation of this government we have never seen such times, in which the want of money was so great and failure so extensive. The "pressure" reaches every village and hamlet and paral[y]zes all sorts of business. The rich and the poor equally suffer, or I might rather say the poor laborer is the cheif sufferer, for he is thrown out of employ and left to starve with his needy family. 
The New York merchants and mechanics are particularly great sufferers. Near two hundred large houses have already fallen a sacrifice to the "Gold Experiment" of Gen'l. Jackson, and from this point the pressure is moving northward through New England, shutting up the cotton mills and throwing hundreds of laborers out of employ. 
Amidst this universal distress our Government will not relent or relax their destructive measures. The Specie Circular which drains us of specie will not be repealed until Congress meets and after the commercial affairs of our country are deranged almost past remedy, in spite if Mr. Van Buren sets things in their right places by repealing the Treasury Circular. It will come too late however, to save us. (Witness Edward [Edmond? Savage.) 
Wednesday May 3, 1837. It is said that the poison contained in the froth of 

a mad dog's mouth is sufficient to communicate hydrophobia to any other animal if applied to any wound. Now why has not this foam been examined and the poison been analyzed? Its antidote might in all probability thus be discovered and a dreadful malady averted from our race. 
I believe the chemist might by the aid of analysis render essential service to the physician in this terrible disease. It is said that a German has cured the hydrophobia or at least prevented the effects of the bites of a mad animal by means of Galvanism. His experiments look very conclusive and it is to be hoped are genuine. 
Thursday May 4, 1837. Nine o'clock P. M. I am just informed by Prof. Savage that chlorine has so powerful an affinity for potassium that the latter burns with a remarkably brilliant flame when thrown into the former !!!! As has just been just been experimentally demonstrated by said Prof. of Chemistry!!! Said Savage affirms also that the notion of writing every day in a diary is an old-womanish whim, in evidence of which he appeals to the fact that much nonsense must thus be occasioned, as is abundantly evident from the contents of the previous pages of this book and particularly from this page. 
To the first part of Mr. Savage's affirmation I cannot assent; but to the latter I do with all my beart. Still as my nonsense, I tell him, affects only myself as it meets no o'ne's eye, it may be tolerated. 
Friday May 5, 1837. The all-absorbing topic among all classes is the derangement of our money affairs. The pressure! The Pressure! is the prolific source of all newspaper articles: and this proclamation from the press of "bankruptcy" and national dishonor is no more than what is responded to by the people generally; I believe. The state of our affairs is truly deplorable. 
Saturday May 6, 1837. I have commenced the Botany again in earnest and, as my leisure during the present term will be considerable, I hope to pursue it with some success. The chief pleasure of Botany is to me the excitement and joy that one feels in finding a new flower, as well as the healthfulness of the exercise when ranging the hills and valleys. The student of nature cannot but find in plants ample evidences of design and wisdom. ' 
Sunday May 7, 1837. It is seldom that I mention the subject of religion in my journal because I suppose I think little about it; although the most important of all things, this is the least accounted by us of the multitude of subjects that crowd upon us for consideration. I have ever followed God afar off, laying hold upon heaven with one hand and upon earth with the other. "Oh Lord search me and try me and see if there be any evil way in me." 

Monday May 8, 1837. Death like a staunch murderer follows his victims without relenting. What changes he works in the earth among men! How he destroys their prospects in life, how he extinguishes their hopes, how he sweeps off generation after generation! 
Tuesday May 9, 1837. The manufactories of New England are beginning to stop owing to the stagnation of business, throwing out of employ hundreds of operatives who depended upon them for support; and yet amidst all this distress which overwhelms the country there are those who ex[u]lt over its ruin and anounce the stoppage of some large houses in New York in such terms as these: "Good news." We understand that "several large houses have suspended" payment during the present week, &c. The above is the substance of an article published in the New Hampshire Patriot a short time since. Such a sentiment is worthy of the Editor, Cyrus Barton. 
Wednesday May 10, 1837. Ashman of my class is now in town spending his vacation at Mr. Van Santvord's, whose daughter he is courting in right earnest. 1cannot judge from experience but it does seem as though a man must be mad in love and careless of all appearances, to spend four or five weeks in such near proximity to the object of his adoration. But I suppose we must all be fools once in the course of courtship and love. 
Thursday May 11, 1837. Circumstances very easily turn our minds and change the course of our designs. A few months ago I determined to leave teaching and all sedentary life and devote myself to active pursuits for the benefit of my health. Now, from causes which I did not then foresee, I am determined to remain in [my] present vocation for a time at least. 
One reason is the unparalleled embarrassment in all affairs connected with the commercial interest of our country. So uncertain is any business ... 
Friday May 12, 1837 .... at the present time that he who is in any occupation that will afford a comfortable livelihood is unwise to leave for hopes of better. Another reason is that my health is better and prospects are flattering in regard to my permanent location here as a teacher. 
Saturday May 13, 1837. The state of the case is this. Dr. Joslin thinks of leaving the Institution within a year, in which event his place will probably be occupied by Savage, and Savage's by myself--thereby giving me a permanent and pleasant situation. But on the supposition that I do 
790 
not stay with any such hopes I had rather do so than cut afloat at this 
season. 
Sunday May 14, 1837. Sunday Schools are rearing up a generation more learned in the Bible than any previous --a generation that, as they will be more critical, will need a more learned and talented ministry. Every Sabbath School scholar who attends from the age of eight years to sixteen the faithful instructions of a teacher becomes a little theologian ... 
Monday May 15, 1837 .... who is able to judge of and discriminate for himself the doctrines and precepts of the Bible, as set forth by the minister of the Gospel. But woe to the people who have a pastor without piety, be his learning ever so great. 
Tuesday May 16, 1837. What effect does learning --I mean the ordinary course of collegiate and theological education --have upon the piety of a man? Does his tone of piety pale as the mind expands? I have thought much on this subject but perhaps am not as yet competent to judge with. accuracy. 
Wednesday May 17, 183 7. However it may be, the predjudice of mankind sits that way. Do not our seminaries of theology help to perpetuate the crying evil of reading sermons which so extensively prevails in the church? It is my deliberate opinion that, of all other things combined, nothing is so decidedly injurious to the minister's influence as that of reading sermons. 
Thursday May 18, 1837. A division of the Senior Class have petitioned me to hear them in Botany. I confessed to them that I knew nothing about the subject, but told them that if I could assist them a little I would do so with pleasure. Seniors will not study during the last term, so that they may as well do one thing as another. 
Friday May 19, t837. Much of the pleasure of teaching depends upon the scholars whom you teach. The police of an institution is mere drudgery especially if one has wild mischievous boys. This is the pleasantest term I have spent as Fellow. 
Saturday May 20, 1837. The study or rather the practical part of Botany will preserve my health this term.It is really a fine exercise to ramble through all the bogs and ravinces, over the the hill and among the forrests after plants, as well as a great pleasure and actual source of profit. 
79/ 
Sunday May 21, 1837. I received [my] turn of mind from the instructions of my mother who taught me religious truths in my infancy. What encouragement for mothers to be faithful to the great interests of their children and bring them up in the way they should go. 
Monday May 22, 1837. I was a child of prayer and religious convictions. Many a time on my way to school, through the fields, I have offered my petitions to God in secret, and often preached little sermons of reproof and instruction to my companions. The Holy Spirit never left striving with me after I knew a God. 
Tuesday May 23, 1837. Spring opens some days later than usual as the flowering of plants indicates. I suppose a more delicate test of the forwardness of a season cannot be found. 
Wednesday May 24, 183 7. The moneyed affairs of a great commercial 
country is a complicated piece of machinery which cannot be med[dJled with save with the greatest precaution. 
(Query) Has not our general Government most unfortunately tampered too much with currency and thrown disorder into every branch of industry? AYE! in thunder. 
Thursday May 25, 1837. Ashman of my class is now spending a few weeks in town on a visit matrimonial or rather preparatory to that decisive step. He stays at Mr. Van Santvord's, his intended father-in-law, and woos the lady with most decided perseverence. Such manifest indications of patient and constant action before the fortress of the lady's coyness and hesitancy must be rewarded by ultimate success. 
Here is an illustration of the silliness of red-hot love, which consumes a man's wit. 
Friday May 26, 1837. I had received the impression from report that Eaton was a great practical botanist, but upon using his book (Manual) I am inclined to think differently. It looks to me like "scissors' work." The descriptions appear to have been collected without much discrimination and to have been made rather from dried plants from herbariums, rather than from actual inspection of living specimens. 
Saturday May 27, 1837. From a superficial reading of Pursh's North American Flora I am led to think it a more accurate work than Eaton's although not so systematically arranged. Pursh was a man who travelled extensively for twelve or eighteen years in this country, collecting plants and consulting scientific men who were most capable of furthering his object; and after all this laborious research he published his book. I can.not think that we have many American botanists, if any, who have travelled so extensively for the purpose of improving themselves, as this European. 

Botany is a fine study undoubtedly, but the obstacles to the beginner with such a work as Eaton's must effectually disgust him. I will not say that he alone is peculiarly dark and obscure in his descriptions, but I say this, that if Botany has no better assistants than such as this she needs others before many will ever trouble themselves to examine this branch of science. We want fuller and more correct descriptions. 
Conciseness in description I should take to be Eaton's only aim in his work. I should think it strange if we had no better American work, although, at present owing to my limited knowledge I cannot mention one. 
Sunday May 28, 1837. In. a pastor what should be the first and most important qualification? Doubtless piety; not a piety which causes a man to refrain from known sins only, but an active, self-denying, burning piety which seeks the good of others and the salvation of souls. 
Monday May 29, 1837. Now is this the first question which a congregation asks when they seek a minister? "Is he an actively pious man?" I say almost never; but rather "At what college and seminary did he graduate?" and "Is he smart?" 
I have been so long conversant with those who esteem, at least by every indication except open avowal, a show of intellect in a sermon greater than ardent zeal and piety, that I am sick at heart with the eternal battery of criticism that is opened against the Christian minister. 
Tuesday May 30, 1837. Talents and exellency of speech are good, yea very necessary, in a preacher but they are not the only thing needful. The minister in his pastoral duties may do more good than in the pulpit and those who have the right spirit actually do so. 
Wednesday May 31, 1837. I am satisfied of this thing, that we often despise men, unjustly, for faults of which we ourselves are guilty. We often slander them for what they are in no wise to blame. This I find illustrated in the case of students of College. 
It is often that those very students whom we thought great dunces, and always characterized them as such, do after leaving College make useful and eminent [citizens?] notwithstanding our prophecies of barrenness. 
Thursday June 1, 1837. Why should that man be a fool who cannot learn . 
793 
either a lesson in mathematics or the languages? There may be something for which his talents are fitted and in which he may excel. Many a man who has been prematurely pronounced non compos has after all become eminent for usefulness. "Despise not the day of small things." 
For myself I would like to banish this harsh and uncharitable judgement of others who do not come up to our own arbitrary standard of greatness and let every man stand or fall by his own works. I know that I have often spoken unadvisedly of men who afterwards have exceeded my expectation. 
Friday June 2, 1837. I am getting more reconciled to my present mode of life as I have more experience, although I do not know that I shall ever like it well. At the West College the boys are more manageable, less roguish, and less slothful than on the Hill where it is much in fashion for them to get to be "hard cases." 
Saturday June 3, 1837. Strange how wrong public opinion is in College as far as it respects study and recitations. They are considered too much in the light of tasks imposed upon them not so much for their own good as a matter of course in the administration of College duties. Their teachers are held as tyrants who exercise authority merely for the love of it and whose duties are therefore a matter of choice. 
Students are mistaken in many of their views respecting college, regarding it not as an institution founded merely for their benefit exclusively, but as a prison in which they are immured for a space and then sent forth when they have served out their term. 
Sunday June 4, 1837. Of all College duties none is more irksome to me than to officiate in Chapel at morning prayers, not because I do not wish to draw near to the Throne at all times but becauseá of the embarrasing circumstance which attends this duty. 
Our Profs have got into a dry and formal way of praying which is alike useless and disagreeable. It seems that they pray as a matter of course, without that ardent desire for the salvation of the souls of their pupils which could lead them to earnest and zealous petitions at the throne of grace. 
Monday June 5, 1837. I cannot pray without feeling. At all times I do not feel in the true state of devotion. Besides it seems to be expected that we all shall pursue the same dull monotonous way to the throne of grace and act as though we had a [tie?] in our mouths; hence this duty is irksome. 
Tuesday June 6, 1837. My life is very crooked. The paths of my feet are 
79t 
not straight, but I have many rugged upclivities to ascend, and downs, many and difficult, and many sharp corners to turn which require all my skill to prevent capsizing. 
Wednesday June 7, 1837. Our country is in a most unfortunate condition. Provisions are high, money scarce, business nothing, and distress is staring us in the face. Our specie is going to Europe and paupers are coming in exchange. 
Thursday June 8, 1837. Seth Bunnell of my class is married and preaching, ~tis said, with very considerable success. Why not? Does it always happen that the man of the most brains always succeeds best in the world? Or does it not depend much upon his assurance? 
Friday June 9, 1837. As a specimen of Dr. Nott's wisdom I note this fact. Lerow, a member of the present Senior Class from Boston, was formerly connected with Waterville College where he made himself known by his violent abolition measures. He is a fellow that thrives best under opposition; hence, when Dr. Babcock oppos~d the formation of a Society, Lerow came into notice as the champion of rights trampled upon and liberty of speech and action. 
Saturday June 10, 1837. He tried the same game here but without success. When he applied to Dr. Nott for permission to form an Abolition Society, expecting without doubt a flat denial, he was answered thus; "Yes, my son, you may form just as many Societies in College as you have a mind to. From that day Lerow never hoped to attain notoriety, and he became insignificant only because he was not opposed. 
Sunday June 11, 1837. I can but observe the var[ia]bleness of feeling manifested bv many Christians in regard to religious matters. Today they may be elated to the third heavens and tomorrow be depressed to the lowest depth of despondency. When they feel well, religion is their hobby.horse, but when these feelings change they get down and go without her. An equable state of mind is above all things to be desired as it is the sure indication of a calm and quiet spirit. 
Few Christians, however, run well in every part of thelr race; sometimes they lag, then again they dart forward with alacrity; sometimes they get weary and faint, and then they feel as though they could break through the troop and put to flight a thousand. 
Monday June 12, 1837. Is modern religion any more subject to this than the old? So it is said, particularly that which consists of protracted 

meetings and all the machinery of conversion. Now there may be something in all this, but not so much as some assert. We have arrived at that point when old measures and new measures in religion are arrayed in opposition to each other. 
Tuesday June 13, 1837. He that can learn to be content in whatever lot he is placed has found the true philosophy of living. 
Wednesday June 14, 1837. A literary man views things through the light of letters. A man is a man in his estimation inasmuch as he has arrived at intelligence or learning, but this attainment will not atone for the want of scientific knowledge. He is a dunce if not a scholar. It is my candid opinion that men, young men especially, are wonderfully in true wisdom in this respect. 
Thursday June 15, 1837. Why should we say at once, because a man is not eminent in scholarship or is deficient in one or many branches of knowledge such as we deem befitting a scholar, that he is a dunce? Yet such is the case very often. We call all dunces who do not come up to our own standard of exellence. 
Friday June 16, 1837. We do not make suitable allowance for difference in tastes and for the foibles and errors of men. For instance, how many of those very young men whom we now despise as fools may arrive at the greatest exellence in some profession. 
Many whom we now esteem as great are full of faults. 
Saturday June 17, 1837. So corrupt is the heart of man that even the Christian is barely able to stand, even by the grace of God. What evil thoughts and imaginings proceed forth from the mind of man! 
Friday September 1, 183 7. Health, one of the greatest blessings of life, without which all other good earthly good, I mean, is embittered, 1 do not enjoy. The pain tn my side which I have complained of so many years is still my disturber. Without almost continual exercise it cannot be avoided. 
Saturday September 2, 1837. I am tired of this whining and groaning about ill health brought on by sedentary habits and want of labor and often think it were far better to be a day-laborer with his healthy countenance than a student, sallow in complexion, weak and consumptive in body and forever complaining of indigestion and pain in side. What does knowledge amount to without health to enjoy and apply it? 

Sunday September 3, 1837. "Great is the mystery of Godliness," said the Apostle and well may he say so for "who by searching can find out God?" He is higher than heaven, what can we know? He is deeper than Hell, what can we do? When is he not found? "If we ascend up into Heaven he is [there] or if we descend into Hell, behold he is there; if we take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, behold then his hoard [horde?] shall lead us and his right hand shall hold us." 
Monday September 4, 1837. I dislike above all things at this crisis in our commercial affairs to hear ministers attributing our distresses to the immediate action of Deity in visiting our nation for its sins. That there is much truth in this assertion I do not deny, or that we deserve it, but it savors too much in my estimation of politics and political reasons. 
Tuesday September 5, 1837. The Van Buren man, of course, is quite ready to join with the preacher in denouncing the "speculating, oventrading, credit dealing" spirit of the times, because it places his idol out of the reach of all responsibility and censure, while the opponent of the Administration dissents totally from the doctrines of the divine and lays all our nation's distresses at the the door of the President. 
Wednesday September 6, 1837. In such a state, let clergymen not meddle with the reasons of our embarrasments but pray that we may be delivered from them. 
How true it is that we always judge of man and measures according to the standards of exellence in our usual professions. Thus a clergyman will judge of such according to their moral and religious influence, the literary man according to intellectual greatness. 
Union College Sunday October 1, 1837. This is the customary season appointed for the commemoration of the Lord's death by the Supper in our Church. It should be a day of uncommon interest to the Christian, a day of humiliation and prayer above all others, a day of heart-searching and repentance; but oh! a day how improperly spent even by many of the children of the Kingdom. Why do we eat and drink so unworthily, not discerning the broken body and the spilled blood of the Savior? 
Why so often does condemnation rest upon us when we come to the table of our Lord? 
Why do we sometimes fear to approach the Sacred Symbol as forbidden bread? Why do we shrink from what it is our own peculiar privilege to partake of? 
Alas! the whole may be answered briefly in one word. It is "sin" that 
797 
hinders. 
Monday October 2, 1837. It appears as though our nation was approaching a crisis when the Union will be shaken to its center, if it be not prostrated. I fear corruption is at work in our Government and that our rulers. are more anxious for their own agrandisement than for the interests of the people whom they are elevated to their high stations to serve and benefit. To what is the tendency of this clashing of Northern and Southern interests if it be not disunion? The North must and will awake to the subject of slavery sooner or later and then may be expected a secession of the slave.holding states which are wedded to a system that will eventually work out their ruin. 
Tuesday-October 3, 1837. How strangely inconsistent we are as a people! continually boasting of our liberal opinions and government, comforting ourselves that we have a Constitution that guarantees equal rights to all with freedom of speech and thought, [while] in fact we are as far from the spirit of that instrument as the East is from the West. 
Freedom of speech! where is it found? In our large cities where men have barely escaped with their lives for declaring lawfully their opinions? Is it found at the South or at the North? 
The truth is we are prating about what we have not. 
Wednesday October 4, 1837. This world is full of the pain and sorrow brought on by sin. We are all groaning under its iron bondage and hoping for deliverance; but alas how often do we look to every source of relief but the right one. From whence can come joy but from heaven? Who can heal our sorrows but the Great Physician? 
Thursday October 5, 1837. I seem to myself to be one of the most unhappy beings in the world. I am not content, but tossed about like the troubled ocean. Some cause I surely have for anxiety and distress, and who has not? but whether more than others I know not. One thing is almost certain, it seems to me, that I shall always be an eminently unhappy man. 
Friday October 6, 183 7. What a strange affair is the Animal Magnetism which is now agitating the people. I have lately read Col. Stone's letter on the subject and must confess that the facts therein related are truly astonishing. 
What can we say about this subject? Is it an imposture? If so, to account for the tricks would be as difficult as to account for the facts, supposing all that is told about the subject be true. 
790 
Saturday Ocotber 7, 1837. I must say that I am at a loss what to think: the possibility of collusion seems to be precluded by the various expedients that have been taken to test this wonderful art. Nevertheless I doubt and perhaps ever shall until evidence is as clear as a sunbeam. 
Sunday October 8, 1837. Elder Peck is a man of eighty years and over and yet he preached for us today with very considerable force and interest. That man is salt of the earth, having preached about sixty years and become the father of many neighboring churches. 
What a notable example of what piety and perseverance can do even without learning. One thing nevertheless must not be wanting or any minister, learned or unlearned, cannot succeed; that is Common Sense. 
Elder P. I think is blessed with a good stock of this needful talent which has, in want of any other, directed him successfully in all his dealings with men and churches. 
Monday October 9, 1837. My friend Eaton has had one of the most 
singular cases of paralysis that [I can] remember to have heard of. 
Last Sabbath (yesterday) while preaching in Albany it commenced to affect the left side of his face and by night the muscles had become immovable so that he cannot shut one eye or one corner of his mouth. By the advice of the physician he has applied a blister to his neck in hopes of removing this troublesome and dangerous disease. 
Tuesday October 10, 1837. The Synod of Albany (Presbyterian) commenced its session tonight. It was opened by a sermon from Dr. Snodgrass, who undoubtedly made one of his greatest efforts although I could not but think his preaching exceedingly dry and uninteresting. 
The subject of his sermon was to show that in after time the kindness and favor shown to us by God will be a subject of contemplation by beings in other worlds and that they will derive great pleasure from such an exhibition of God's love. There was surely no want of novelty in the subject, but the manner or rather matter of the sermon was too abstract and metaphysical. 
It appears to me that learned preaching is getting to be different from what it once was, that is, preaching that was at once simple and powerful; modern sermon-making consists in formal divisions made according to the schools and dry, metaphysical truths announced in language more fit to be understood by a Doctor of Divinity than by a common unlettered man. 
Wednesday October 11, 1837. The Presbyterian meeting has been uncommonly harmonious; not so much as the slightest jar has been felt 
799 
amongst the delegates. This is the way Christians should meet to deliberate 
for the advancement of Christianity and not to bicker and quarrel about 
nice points and unimportant differences of opinion. 
The Synod closed this evening. Dr. Nott's influence has been very happily exerted during its session in keeping out all matters which might naturally lead into a dispute on the measures of the late General Assembly. 
Thursday October 12, 1837. There is a point in a man's life when it is his duty to marry. I mean when he has settled upon his profession, obtained it, and is about or has entered into business for himself. A young unmarried [man] will generally be unstable in his ways, fluctuating in all his designs, for the simple reason that, seeing nothing to detain him in any particular calling or situation and loving change, he resolves that he can do better. He therefore tries this and that and goes to and fro in the world, like the rolling stone that gathers no moss. 
Youth with all their buoyancy and hope are like ships without ballast. A wife and family to such seem to me to be like a burthen to keep them steady. My experience corroborates the above sentiment. My mind is unstable ... 
Friday October 13, 183 7 .... and fluctuating, full of projects and new designs, impetuous and impatient. Woman softens the savageness of man's nature and tames him down into a sociable being. 
Saturday October 14, 1837. Marriage may be hastily entered into, in which case evil consequences follow, or it may be too long deferred and be attended at least by evils. Man and Woman should both enter into this relation before their characters are so firmly fixed that they cannot be mutually fitted to each other. 
A man who lives a bachelor till thirty years of age and has not mingled much in female society cannot ordinarily profit by marriage. The same may be said of the other sex though not in the same degree. As it regards myself, these are my sentiments: either marriage must make a great change in my disposition, or I shall never live pleasantly in that relation. 
Sunday October 15, 1837. I tremble when I think of connecting another's happiness with my own, in consideration of my waywardness and many faults, and I fully believe if there is anything that should ever deter me from marriage it is the imperfections of my character. 
When I look upon the unbounded selfishness that manifests itself in the conduct of many husbands towards their wives, and then reflect that I am no better than other men, a question cannot but arise in my own mind 
8ao 
whether it is my duty to endanger the happiness of another for the probability of my own gratification. 
Monday October 16, 1837. What is the effect of our Education Societies on the ministry, good or bad? I am of the opinion that the effect is bad, for this reason, that they encourage young men of verv small talents and little good sense to adopt a profession for which in my own estimation God never made them. 
They call old men from their farms and workshops merely because they are pious and place them in our schools for the acquirement of an education which they ought to have obtained before their habits and ways of thinking had become fixed. 
Tuesday October 17, 1837. My experience teaches me that on the whol~ our Divinity Students are inferior in talents to our Law Students and in that manly independence of thought and action which is every man's right and privelege. 
Wednesday October 18, 1837. Contentment is a blessed virtue which, although possessed by only few of the human race, is nevertheless deservedly spoken well of by all. Contentment is sure and permanent riches for the man who is the possessor thereof. Whether he have much or little of what is usually termed wealth, [he] feels that he has enough for all his wants and more than many of the world about him. 
Thursday October 19, 1837. One may be comforted in his situation by contrasting his own lot with that of many who are worse off in regard to the necessaries or comforts of life than himself. The reply of a sailor who broke his leg by a fall from the mast shows that he had this Christian virtue. "It is a great mercy," says he, "that it was not my neck." 
Whenever repinings enter our hearts, if we but look upon the miserable below us, I am sure that with a right spirit we shall bless God for not making our lot more unhappy than it really is. 
Friday October 20, 1837. The Proverbs of Solomon are a pure fountain of instruction. They are the evidence of that Divine Wisdom which God gave him as the choicest gift of Heaven. What man who guides his footstep thereby will not be led aright? What system of morals among all the ancient Ethical Philosophers will he choose before this? 
For simplicity and beauty too they can not be equalled, as well as for their purity. I would advise every youth to make them the main [source?] of his counsel and his constant study. 

Saturday October 21, 1837. I fear that I am not in the right place for the exertion of my talents, not that it is not sufficiently favorable, but that my bent of mind is not such as to lead me on to that elevation in my profession that one ought to attain. 
I tremble when I think of my incapacity to fill so important an office as that of a teacher of youth. I am too indolent. My inclinations lead me to some other employment, more mechanical. I ought to have been a mechanic -a machinist or engineer, as such employments have ever been my delight and study. 
Sunday October 22, 1837. On two accounts I staid away from church; one because I wished to find who of the students of my section remained at home, and the other because I do not like to hear our preacher so mangle the Bible and our language. 
Pious man he undoubtedly is but that he is wanting in good common sense is too apparent. Our congregation under his preaching is dwindling down into a little handful of casual hearers who, I fear, never come a second time nor are benefited by the first. 
Monday October 23, 1837. Mr. G[illett], such a preacher and expositor as this: Speaking of Paul's Sermon at Athens he said: "Athens is a city of Asia!" and that when he came into this seat of learning and colleges! he found it given up to idolatry. So being brought before the Areoapagus! which was an officer like our judge!! he preached so forcibly [that] the incumbent of that office, Dionysius, was converted! Here is a specimen of his knowledge of the Scriptures and the history connected therewith. I could put up with his bad pronunciation and bad grammar, but when a man pretends to be a teacher of the Holy Word he ought to give a correct exposition thereof if it be not learned and critical. No man ought to preach the gospel who has not some considerable knowledge of the Scriptures. 
Tuesday October 24, 1837. I am more of the opinion now than ever before that a particular and exclusive education will make a man narrow-minded. To illustrate my ~meaning: I know a man who has received little or no knowledge except what pertains to Mathematics, and he can conceive of no pleasure to be derived from any other. 
I suppose there are hundreds on the contrary who never yet saw any pleasure or profit in the Mathematics, but can pore over Virgil or Plato or a novel with increasing delight. A scientific Botanist goes into spasms over a new or rare plant, conceiv,ng such a discovery perhaps of more importance than the Mariner's Compass. 
Wednesday October 25, 1837. But it will be of no use to multiply examples 

to prove this point or to complain that it is so, since it is quite natural and perhaps after all of no great detriment. 
A minister of the Gospel judges of a man's weight of character by his piety, and of his fellow preachers by their learning. A Student weighs a man in the balance of learning and talent and considers all as fool who do not come up to a certain standard fixed according to his own attainments, high or low. 
Thursday October 26, 1837. One of the greatest objections to schools of Divinity is that they make mere machines of our theologians in very many cases, probably in a majority. This I think may be accounted for in this way, that the Profs. do not sufficiently insist upon a man's thinking for himself on contested points. 
Friday October 27, 1837. They are wedded to their own opinions and why should they not trust [teach?] others their [own] doctrines. They make sermons so and so; their fathers did thus, and why should their pupils not follow in their footsteps? 
I may be wrong but I do think that very much of what is obtained at our Theological Seminaries is exceedingly detrimental to a minister's usefulness, among ... 
Saturday October 28 1837 .... other things, that dry, metaphysical, prosing kind of preaching that will put a man to sleep instead of awaking his conscience. Nevertheless, I would not say that such schools should not exist because a few evils grow out of them. On the contrary we should patronize them the better and strive to eradicate what is objectionable. 
Sunday October 29, 1837. The Sabbath is getting to be desecrated to an astonishing degree by our railroads, steamboats and other public conveyances. And the minds of the people seem to changing on this subject so that those who would once look upon such things with abhorrence now regard them as a kind of necessary evil ... 
Monday October 30, 1837 .... which is beyond their power to remedy. Great corporations, I know, have neither souls or consciences in matters regarding either human or divine rights, yet at the same time I cannot see Schenectada Tuesday December 6, 1836 Doctor Nott's pithy sayings and wise remarks are always current among his pupils and handed down from class to class as the gems of college wit and wisdom. Of Dorp he is reported to have said "It is the town under the horse's tail," alluding to its filthiness. Correct 'nough in truth but rather vulgar withal. 

Wednesday December 7, 1836. I cannot agree with those who hold to the degeneracy of [our] own times when compared with former generations. Every age grows wiser and I believe better, although it must be confessed this is saying but little in favor of either our morals or our knowledge. Take the best of us and forsooth we shall be found wicked enough and simple enough even though we make the most advantageous comparison with former times. 
Thursday December 8, 1836. It does seem as though heaven and earth was ransacked for means and devices for making money. Nothing is too difficult--nothing is too wicked--nothing is too sacred to be undertaken by modern speculation with the prospect of getting rich. In our days men are made princes and beggars in a day. The wildest schemes are broached and accomplished with a celerity which is truly astonishing. 
Friday December 9, 1836. What were formerly great enterprises and wonders of that day are now of everyday occurrence. Speculation is the order of the day, or rather "peculation" I fear it may be too often called. Some speculate in stocks, some in lands, some in **** stuffs and some in merchandise. "Every[thing] is high." The price of eatables is enormous and unaccountably scarce. The Devil seems to have [been] seized with a mania for wealth which may be aptly called a monomania (money-mania). 
Saturday December 10, 1836. Wealth covers a multitude of sins. If you are but rich, care not what the world think of you, you will have friends. If you are a rascal, never mind, with a full purse you may carry a head as high as the best-;; Even wit is not essential to the world's adulation-.money will buy what brains cannot command or virtue extort from the unwilling. Conscience? Never mention that if you are a gentleman! The world will laugh at you. Money! I say again, is the chief good; therefore get it--honestly if you can, but at any rate get money! (The echo of the times.) 
Sunday December 11, 1836. Here is quite too much room to write my religious feelings. I cannot say that [I] feel anything in the shape of pious aspirations. Piety is at low ebb with me; it exists only in name. 

Monday December 12, 1836. I said that this was a speculating age but then I forgot to mention that most cruel and unhappy way of getting riches by marriage, which too many of our youngsters consider to be the legitimate bond of wedlock. I say it is devilish --it is monstrous, thus to degrade, with this most holy and sacred ordinance, thus to tamper with the affections and sympathies for filthy lucre. 
Tuesday December 13, 1836. I know of nothing so unmanly as to marry a lady for her money as though she whom the husband is bound to cherish and support must, contrary to all laws of gallantry and reason, afford the means of his maintenance. If it belongs to either party to look for temporary aid from the other, who can claim this privilege better than the lady? And yet, strange and unnatural as it may seem, it is considered the greatest accomplishment that a young lady can have to be rich, and the first and almost only qualification for a wife. 
Wednesday December 14, 1836. Our young men, I mean all who claim a rank above the commonality, look with far more anxiety for wealthy partners than for lovely and educated. Everything is sacrificed to mammon --happiness, affection, virtue, yea everything that is honorable and lovely. It were far better for a lady ... 
Thursday December 15, 1836 ..... to fall .into the hands of a robber than of a fortune-hunting suitor, for the former only takes the purse but the other purse, happiness and all. I could tell tales of misery, yes of splendid misery, which would wring the heart of the hardest profligate--tales of a husband's cruelty to his lovely wife after robbing her of her fortune. 
Friday December 16, 1836. Two students still lie sick of the typhus fever .-Hall and Abel. The former will probably die. Poor fellow, how strong and hearty he was a few days since, now alas how fallen! how lustreless the eye! how sunken the cheeks, how emaciated the limbs! Nevertheless he has made his peace with God, andd what need he fear? 
Saturday December 17, 1836. A man's wealth and faults are always over.rated. 
Sunday December 18, 1836. A preacher is a universal subject of unbounded criticism both in person, dress, and deportment --both abroad and in pulpit. He is the mark against [which] everybody hurls his shaft and seemingly with perfect right, for custom has so sanctioned the practice that no one thinks he ls doing any injustice, be his judgement ever so severe. 

Monday December 19, 1836. Public opinion here, however, as in many other cases is completely wrong. A pastor's labors forsooth [are] quite unpleasant enough without the unmerciful condemnation of unqualified censors. If he be in fault, let it be told him privately, but if his errors are too small for such notice, pass them by unmentioned and spare the feelings of the poor man. 
Tuesday December 20, 1836. The world's estimate of true worth is most 
false and inconsiderate. It judges from appearance and not from the 
motives; it judges from public deportment and not from private actions. 
Men regard character in quite a different light from what God does -.
they look merely to outward acts but he to our hearts. 
Wednesday December 21, 1836. Among the multitude of instances whicli might be cited by way of illustration, let us take one. In what light are the comparative merits of Judson and Scott estimated? Does [it] accredit the palm to the most worthy or not? The latter has seen the adulation of the world. Every heart has worshipped at the shrine of his genius, but whoá cares for Judson? He might die and be unwept save by a few Bushears [?] and Christians. Scott died and a world was in mourning. 
Thursday December 22, 1836. But who indeed has benefited his species most of these two great men? Which has most ameliorated the woes of human suffering? Which has brought deliverance to the captive? bound up the wounded spirits? and lighted up the pathway of thousands, nay millions, that were enveloped in thick darkness? 
Friday December 23, 1836. Let eternity answer these questions--the world has already--and if I am not mistaken, man will be ashamed of his judgement. There is no department in life in which the inconsistency of public opinion ls not glaringly manifested. The natural man sees everything distorted; he sees men as trees walking. Prejudice and education blind him and interest leads him astray, but God is truth. 
Saturday December 24, 183G. 
II II
1111177?7¥--¥17¥---77?1 I II ( 7 ~ A A A r+ * p] 
¥ ¥ 1 7 
" Stops and marks" are excellent thing[s] in their place but as I often omit them where they should be placed I here insert a few to make up deficiencies wherever they occur. "Mind you stops and marks." 

Sunday December 25, 1836. Religion is a plant of foreign birth transplanted to earth for the healing of man's interminable ills. Its growth is sickly, its stature dwarfish. Our climate and soil are uncongenial to its heavenly nature and with the best care and with the most anxious watching we may hope scarcely to keep it alive. 
Monday December 26, 1836. "Man, it is too true, by nature, is a selfish being; his sorrows and his pleasures are his own. Engrossed by these -.concentrated in himself, his happiness is peculiarly his own. While 'the weak creature of another's sway' freely consigns her every feeling, whether of Joy or grief, to the control of a master who may, indeed, betimes give of his pity where he wounds; but without a prior interest it is not the devotion of woman can obtain her more." 
Tuesday December 27, 1836. I quoted the above paragraph because I thought too much of truth was expressed in it to pass without particular notice. Is man "a selfish being," then, in contradistinction to woman? Verily I believe it, and as a general proposition I think it will be found most lamentably true. My own brief experience is enough to verify these broad assertions. I have often looked with .. . 
Wednesday December 28, 1836 .... pity upon the confiding and devoted wife whose every wish and affection of her soul was centered in her lordly and selfish husband. 
We may boast of the exalted station to which woman is raised in our own civilized country and times, we may talk of her equal rights and equal capacities for improvement and rational enjoyment, finally we may comfort ourselves ... 
Thursday December 29, 1836 .... that we give woman her due,-but the unwelcome truth ls manifest in multitudes of instances that she ls yet the abject slave of man's pleasure or interest. Man may marry for interest; woman seldom but for affection. Man lives for himself; woman, for another. 
Man seeks the approving gaze of the world; woman's only and highest mede of praise is that of husband. Contrast the heartlessness of the one with the open generous confidence of the other and then say if this mighty parade about woman's station in society and woman's exalted condition is not yet quite as much in name or appearance as in reality. I aver without any fear ... 

Friday December 30, 1836 .... of confutation that the damnable and heretical opinion is yet too prevalent that she is the weaker sex, as much in mind as in body. She is too much despised in heart, however much soever in appearance she is esteemed and caressed. 
Hear what Coleridge says: I think women are generally better creatures than men. They have taken universally weaker appetites and weaker interests, but they have much stronger affections. 
Saturday December 31, 1836. "Better creatures"! aye, as apparent as is the sun in the firmament. "Have stronger affections": most assuredly they love with all their might and cling to the object of their passion through every varying scene of life. I wish I could speak so much of man after the honeymoon. 
