
Sunday January 1, 1837. This is certainly an apt occasion for good resolutions and repentance. Here we stand at the commencement of a new week, month and year. 
The tablet of the past is soiled with foul blots and stains, that of the future yet pure is ready to register the as yet unaccomplished acts and designs of coming time. 
Monday January 2, 1837. 
"Tie up the knocker, John" 
Heavens! how harsh that old knocker chimes upon my ears! Upon my word I imagine all the beggars in town have been here today. What an eternal rap! rap! rap! and "Wish you Happy New Year"! all for what? to get a "cookie." Very well, I think it a pretty custom, it gives bread for one day at least to the hungry. 
Tuesday January 3, 1837. Maryatt as a writer of novels and light trash has attained to considerable celebrity. His books are certainly very readable, very witty and very humorous. His "Peter Simple" is a very pleasant tale containing much interesting incident as well as much that is flat and profane. Cannot the Captain make books which will be popular without filling them with oaths? 
Wednesday January 4, 1837. Prof. Potter would certainly be a more pleasant and agreeable man were he to lay aside some of that put-on dignity and distance of manner to his inferiors. It really makes one uneasy to be in his presence under such circumstances of embarrassment. 
Thursday January 5, 1837. However, I must say that I respect and revere him very highly and whatever austerity he may at times exhibit 

attribute more to his office than to the man. He is Dr. Nott's "right-hand man" and main professor; upon him rests the main burthens of the College government and discipline and should the "old Dr. " be taken away he would probably take his place. 
Friday January 6, 1837. College meets today at the commencement of a new term, but what a sad hole has been made in our numbers! Six young men have fallen victims to disease since the beginning of last term. Unprecedented mortality! Do the living lay it to heart? Nay. The Heavens may open and disclose the beauties of paradise or Hell may send up her dismal moanings, yet men will not consider. Strange infatuation! 
Saturday January 7, 1837. Dyspepsia, melancholy, heart burn, eruc[ta]tions, palpitations, pain in side, hypo, nervousness, watchfulness, dreams, dizziness, and the whole concatenation of ails dependent upon the first.mentioned are more or less mine. 
I quit this monk's life shortly. I will not be a poor dyspeptic for all the learning in existence. 
Sunday January 8, 1837. Considerable religious [ferment?] in both the Methodist and Baptist Churches. The result appears to be the conversion of several souls. The Lord indeed works by very feeble means and exceedingly humble instruments. He only asks us to trust in him and the work is accomplished by the power of his Spirit. 
Monday January 9, 1837. Teach "Conic Sections, Geometry and Paley's Theology . !!!!!!!!! Old Simon Dederick of my class is married and has one child ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
Tuesday January 10, 1837. Oh these cold Northern winters,--these cold winds and No'th East storms!--these fevers and agues and consumptions! --these blue noses and chattering teeth! Are they not enough to embitter all the pleasures of the other six months! Yet after all there are no people like the Northerners for education and morals and spirit. I like a southern climate but a northern population. 
Wednesday January 11, 1837. Took in Magoun as chum through the winter. 
Many of our young fellows and girls take fire so quick and make so hasty matches that I can compare them to nothing else but "loco foco" matches. 
Thursday January 12, 1837. I spoke yesterday of hasty inconsiderate 

matches; now hear the rumor which, if true, fairly illustrates my point. Wilson Ingalls, just now Fellow in Union College, has married a very ordinary, illiterate girl and gone to study his profession at Andover; she, to get an education at Schenectady!! nThe more fools they"! 
Friday January 13, 1837. Wilson Ingalls, an old gander, married to a young goose! How came such a nincompoop to be dubbed Fellow of Union College? Let me quote a line from a poet which will explain the whole matter. "Worth makes the man--the want ofit the Fellow." 
Saturday January 14, 1837. It is well if makers of books can make their readers believe all the lies which many of them tell in their Prefaces. Their hearts forsooth seem to run over with the milk of human kindness, they have the most unbounded benevolence, and their only possible object in publishing their book is the profit and pleasure of the reader. 
Generous, noble-hearted men, they deserve the thanks of a people! Hear them in these short extracts which I shall make on Monday. 
Sunday January 15, 1837. Men are but children with a few additional years upon their heads. They are as much pleased with toys and baubles -.as much taken with appearances --as much devoted to the present --and as regardless of the future as the merest child that prattles upon his mother's knee. 
Poor deluded man, blind to his true interests, and heaven. 
Monday January 16, 1837 "In this revision I have thought it best, without specially calling the attention of the reader to them, to correct such errors as my comparatively limited knowledge of the subject assured me would not have been passed over by the Author in a Second Edition." 
Many to get their name upon the tittle page of a deservedly popular book set about correcting verbal and [un?]important errors and thereby acquire the honorable appelation of "Editor" to the work. 
Tuesday January 17, 1837. Hear what another says who has collected a few sayings of an eminent man. "And I can truly say that if in the course of the perusal of this little work any one of its readers shall gain a clearer insight into the deep and pregnant principles in the light of which Mr. C. was accustomed to regard God and the world, I shall look upon the publication as fortunate and consider myself abundantly rewarded for whatever trouble it has cost me." 
Wednesday January 18, 1837. Who believes such ridiculous professions? He did not expect anything in the shape of bank bills and glory in return 
810 
for his laborious exertions? Nonsense!! 
Thursday January 19, 1837. Hear another modest author overflowing with benevolence to his race! "He can only say that what he has written has proceeded from the purest desire to promote the improvement of youth! and that he should never [have] thought of troubling the world with his publication if he could have found on any of the subjects he has treated a book adapted to his purpose." 
Friday January 20, 1837. It is useless to multiply examples on this subject when everyone who will take the trouble of reading the prefaces of our modern books will find to his entire satisfaction proofs of the philanthropy of our book-makers. They profess to live only to please the public and 
benefit their race while in fact they are as heartless of consequences as a Chinese if only they can find a ready sale for their labors and a plentifur return of cash and literary fame. 
Saturday January 21, 1837. What a cold, bleak, spot "College Hill" is! It. seems to be the gathering point of all the storms and winds that course over the earth in winter. 
Stand between the Colleges and a fierce Borean ls always raging, almost stripping your garments from your back and pinching the blood out [of] your body. 
I fancy he will not meddle with my nose so rudely another winter. 
Sunday January 22, 1837. One Whiting, a Baptist of New York, has undertaken to revise our translation of the Bible and substitute for the words "Baptism" "~aptise" etcetc., others which more nearly agree with the spirit of the original. In other words he proposes to make a Baptist Bible, for undoubtedly it will be used only by such. I doubt the expedience of such a work which promises ¥Still more to widen the breach between ourselves and other denominations ... 
Monday January 23, 1837 .... already wide enough, which can do no possible good with them because they will not buy it, nor with ourselves because we are sufficiently Baptists already; and finally which is opening the door to other and more objectionable criticisms on the Sacred Text. 
The precedent is bad, and I object to it with all my heart. 
Tuesday January 29, 1837. Translating the scripture into other languages in which they have never yet been read I most cordially agree with, who transfer not a single word because such would be unintelligible to the untutored mind, but since we all have known from our childhood the meaning of the word "baptize,' which has been transplanted for two hundred years into our language and grown there until it has become anglicized, I see no good reason at this late period to cast it out. 
Wednesday January 25, 1837. Our Congress in my humble [opinion] is most foully corrupt both in morals and political integrity. "Party" is the watchword and the rallying point at every contest by vote. "Party" swallows up the only true interests of the country. It wants time, money, good feeling, and all correct principles. It is lamentable that such should be the state of affairs. 
Thursday January 26, 1837. Can the people be expected to remain virtuous when those in "high places" drink to drunkenness at the fountain of corruption? Can our rulers degenerate into mere partisans or one man sacrifice the public good to his own emolument, and the people not catch the spirit of degeneracy? 
Friday January 27, 1837. Newspapers and other periodical publications seem to deluge this whole country. Every village and hamlet have their printing press and little weekly (weakly?) sheet teeming with information of the most momentous consequence to all gossips and village politicians. Yea, imagine the sage remarks upon Webster's last speech in Congress! Figure to yourself the ghastly form of countenance and long sighs as the last steamboat disaster is announced to the [matronly?] dames? 
Saturday January 28, 183 7. But where is any pure reasoning? Amongst so many publications there must necessarily be an immense dearth of good sense and composition and a vast amount of trash merely. So it will be found. Yet on the whole I cannot say that I should like to see these weakly sheets disc on tin ued. 
Sunday January 29, 1837. I hold it to be a sin to slander a minister, for he is the Lord's Servant, but upon my soul I cannot but consider our Pastor Mr. Gillett an old granny. His piety indeed is undoubted, his success likewise as a pastor and preacher, yet as a man and companion I can see little to admire or love. He is always whining over his troubles and recounting his labors among the people. 
Monday January 30, 1837. Laugh, 0 pen, until thou split thyself to the feather!! Cacchinate, O Goose Quill, until the fluid runs dry from the point! For Wilson Ingalls, formerly (Tutor!) in Union College, is married to Mrs. Siterly, she being at the Female Seminary preparing herself for a minister's wife and he at the Seminary at Andover studying for the Ministry. 

Tuesday January 31, 1837. Both are great fools and consummate simpletons! I did suppose Ingalls capable of exhibiting a little good sense on some occasions but this last act of folly has stamped the seal of stupidity forever. Married? to whom? An ignorant, witless girl, an equal companion forsooth! I can imagine the whole scene just as it took place. 
Friday February 1, 1837. He boarded at her father's, a comfortable farmer, for a year at times, and in this time became acquainted with his family. The girl like all other frisky things of her stamp showed him great attentions because he was a "College larnt man," and because he was somewhat attentive to her. 
The old man asked him nothing for board and at his departure the family were very sorry and the girl "sniffled." Poor Ingalls was cut to the heart with their grief and, as he had before determined to marry the farmer's daughter at some future time from motives of gratitude and appetite, he thought he might as well settle the matter at once and hinder all distrust of his sincerity and cancel the great debt that he owed the family. 
Saturday February 2, 1837. Sic transit gloria etc. Marriage is honorable forsooth but then why need a man tumble into it as if by chance and expose himself to all the ridicule of his friends which his conduct deserves? Why should he attempt to conceal what the veriest fool ought to have known could not be kept secret and which the very fact of his intended concealment would make appear infinitely ridiculous? 
Sunday February 3, 1837. The result of the protracted meeting held in our church at the opening of the new year has been the conversion of some 4 souls of whom twenty-two have been already baptized, the awakening of the church and a cementing together in bonds of brotherhood. Old wounds are healed and old injuries forgotten. 
Monday February 4, 1837. It spoils most of our young men to cross the Atlantic. They come back with their heads filled with foreign notions, with foreign fashions, with mustachios so that one would think that the salt water had transformed them into complete apes. 
Our literary men are not much better; they cringe and flatter for the purpose of pleasing the aristocracy and fashion, and if noticed at [all] are so puffed up with aristocratical notions that our simple republican manners are absolutely disgusting to them. 
Tuesday February 5, 1837. Is not N.P.Willis' head "turned" or how could he 

write so many foolish things? Some of his letters from Europe are absolute nonsense; he indulges in personal reflections altogether inadmissible, he publishes the conversation and opinions of men on subjects and under circumstances quite improper, and finally how much soever he has written well, I fear he is now relaxing from the labor of writing well or resorting to artifices to make his writings readable which will not long serve his purpose. 
Wednesday February 6, 1837. I have thought that Irving had fallen into some of the like faults, but perhaps not, and if he did his reasons may be sufficient excuse. I suppose he depended upon his pen for subsistence; what then could he expect unless he pleased the public and fell in with the prevailing habits and thoughts of those who were able to patronize? 
Thursday February 7, 1837. Where is Cooper, the novelist who**** since "Lang Syne" enchanted the world with his books? 
I am told he is putting forth another book--of Travels in Europe or Sketches of Switzerland, something of that kind. What a falling-off has there been in some of his last works. 
Friday February 8, 1837. His inspiration seems to be departing; perhaps he has already had sufficient of this world's adulation and is now living upon his former celebrity. Howbeit, his meddling with poHtics was particularly unfortunate and his meddling with the wine bottle, I am told, is still more so. 
[Gap from February 9 to March 1, 183 7] 
Wednesday March 1, 183 7. I was last evening reading the very flat sentiment of a newspaper scribbler on the subject of the goodness of the human heart! How happy, quoth he "the-man who has so good a heart," after enumerating a dozen stupid qualities which at the best were mere moral qualities. Oh it is sickening --it is passing foolish to hear men who have seen naught of human nature extolling his natural goodness. It is all fudge! You may as well talk of the natural goodness of the Devil! There is no necessity of Divine Revelation to convince us of man's depravity; we have a daily revelation of it before our eyes as appalling and damning as Holy Writ ever portrayed in its most forcible language.Tomdrrow let me make an illustration. 
Thursday March 2, 1837. The inhabitants of Texas from accounts are rather given to vice and dissoluteness. I have been told by Prof. Yates 

whose brother resides there that the women have no virtue or any sense of modesty, the peculiar charm of their sex. 
For an example: A young man who by bad behavior had dishonored his family and was discarded fled to Texas and became intimate with the daughter of an old fellow of that country worth his million. He married her and spent his honeymoon at "the Falls." On his way down the Mississippi returning, his wife ran away with a Mulatto. Finally it turned out that this very girl had been debauched by her reported father, and that she was the fruit of an intercourse by which her mother cuckolded the old man! 
What man can say that his own heart is not susceptible of the same degrading passions? 
Friday March 3, 1837. In spite of all the efforts which the friends of Temperance have made in College recently for the suppression of intemperance, it is notorious that a large number of young men indulge in the habitual use of ardent spirits even to excess. 
I think it may be said with truth, as it has been, that more drunkards will come out of four classes now in College than have left this Institution for ten years. . 
To account for such lamentable profligacy is beyond my comprehension. It seems, though, there was a periodic ebb and flow of intemperance and that now there was a Spring tide. 
It is truly awful to contemplate among the youthful forms which so often assemble in these halls so many who will be the future curse of their species, the blight upon their parent's hearts and the disgrace of their families and friends. When will men learn wisdom and the simple be taught knowledge? 
Saturday March 4, 1837. Today, Van Buren attains the height of his ambition. 
A College satire [was] published yesterday, in which was much wit, much slang, and much stupidity; however, it serves its purpose to stir up the stagnant mind of students, to give them a topic of conversation, and a relief from other less-relished subjects of thought. 
It can not be denied that even Freshmen have some wit. Hear a specimen and judge-.
This morning their tutor (Mr. Reed) found the following announcement written upon the walls of the recitation room; "The animals will be fed precisely at eight o'clock," alluding evidently to the fact that the class would not get their breakfast till that hour, a circumstance which was by no means consoling, and which it was hoped this hint would remove. 
Sunday March S, 1837. I do believe there is much truth in the remark which I not long since heard Doctor Nott made, that it was impossible for one to think of God without thinking of death at the same time. They are indeed often associated together in our minds, filling them at times with fearful foreboding and again with elevated and heavenly anticipation. 
Oh how good Our Heavenly Father is to give to man the antidote for death--that which will extract his sting and rob the grave of its terror. 
Give me the hope of the Christian and .what more do I want? 
Is it not sufficient to bear me above all the ills of life and the dread of dissolution? Will it not calm the perturbated passions of the soul? Will it not content the hungry desire of the immortal mind? Yea, and what will it not do for poor man? 
Monday March 6, 1837. What thinks Jonathan of going to Texas "to seek fortune"? This "bookish life is killing thee, thy health suffers and thy mind sympathizes and pines to be away. 
The "Texas fever," after all, perhaps is not all "moonshine." --There is a little spice of adventure in the idea, it is true, but this you like. 
What will hinder that from becoming a great and powerful republic? Its climate is delightful, its soil is fertile, and its location is admirable for commerce. Unquestionably it is destined to take a stand among nations. 
Tuesday March 7, 183 7. Our Senate has already recognized its independence, and if Santa Anna arrives at Mexico with his head on his shoulders it may be expected that his influence will be exerted in the Mexican Congress to have its independence fully established. 
Wednesday March 8, 1837. I am resolved to quit college and pedagoguing forever. My health will not permit me to follow such a manner of life. For two years now I have been more or less afflicated with a pain in [my] side and palpitation -the concomitants of Dyspepsia. In such a state of body, my mind becomes depressed and I become offended at the very thought of a sedentary life. Therefore ... 
Thursday March 9, 1837 ... .I am resolved to bestir myself and follow some other calling, perhaps Engineering, for I had rather carry a hod upon my shoulder with health than possess the most splendid acquirements with a diseased body. A sane and sound frame is an imcomparable blessing. 
Friday March 10, 1837. 
Snow becomes water. 
Winter becomes spring. Van Buren became President the 4th of March, at which glorification speeches and dinners and toasts were current among his friends because he came in President, but among the Opposition because Jackson went out. What will become of the currency of the [country?] if Van Buren follows out the measures of his predecessor no one can tell. It is sufficient to know now that it is deplorable. Money is now in all but our principal cities at twenty, thirty and forty percent interest and scarce at that. 
Saturday March 11, 1837. Engaged during the day with Prof. Savage making the Protoxide of Nitrogen, commonly called "Exhilarating Gas." I have somewhere else mentioned my profound respect and admiration of my friend Savage's talents, and I again reiterate the same opinion. He is a young man of uncommon worth and promise. He is master of whatever he undertakes. 
Owing to ill health I some weeks since gave up two of my recitations to Villeroy D. Reed, my old friend and classmate, who will probably be stationed here permanently if I leave. 
Sunday March 12, 1837. From all that I can judge it is my opinion that the English Bible should be revised and amended. As it is, many parts are absolutely unintelligible from the use of words which since King James' time have either become obsolete or mean what they did not then. Add to this that the book is badly punctuated, that subjects are separated by chapter or verse that intimately relate to each other, and I imagine that I have obvious reasons for such an opinion. The old monk who first divided the Sacred Writ in chapters and verses might have been employed in much better business. It has led to greater obscurity and consequent dislike of the Bible than almost any other one thing. The Bible should be published like other books, and preachers should drop the stupid practice of tacking a verse of scripture to their sermons as a matter of course. I am disgusted with modern sermons. 
Monday March 13, 1837. Miss Leslie has written a very pretty book called the "Rich Poor Man and the Poor Rich Man." The title will sufficiently define the moral -of this simple tale which I am confident may be read with profit by every family of the land. 
I have but one fault now in my mind which I think to be a drawback to the interest I felt in this delightful book; that is, it has no catastrophe, which is an unpardonable fault in a tale or story of any kind. A tale without a catastrophe is as unnatural as a cat without a tail. 
This book ought to find a place in our Sunday School libraries. 
Tuesday March 14, 1837. Glorious times for "Dorp"! She shines forth resplendent in mud and water! Remove filth out of her, make her clean 
Bl7 
and decent and she would no longer be Dorp. 
Schenectada is only another name for all that [is] narrow in municipal policy, that is mean in public spirit, that is unsightly in outward appearances! and uncomfortable in life. It is Dutch in its length and breadth, Dutch in language and manners, Dutch in its neglect of everything that is comfortable and respectable and---it is Dutch, Dutch, Dutch!! That is the best description that can be given to one who knows the Dutch character. The Dutch neat? Where are the signs of their cleanliness! They are filthy as sows! The Dutch neat? "Oh, never mention" it! Such a lie will make the heavens blush for shame. 
Wednesday March 15, 1837. "Hard Times!" says the citizen who has to pay twelve dollars a barrel for flour. "Hard times!" says the Countryman who can not get three shillings a pound for his butter, which is half lard. 
"Hard times!" says the speculator when the banks refuse to discount, because their agents in New York can "shave" notes at two and three percent per month. 
"Hard times!" is in everybody's mouth, both honest man and rascal (save the "shavers") and in every newspaper that flows from the Press. 
Thursday March 16, 1837. But as to the cause all differ and some cry one thing and some another. 
"Down with the banks"! "Away with your rags"! cry the "Loco Focos." 
"Metallic currency and easy times!"say the true Bentonians. 
The Jackson men curse the "Monster." The opposition, the "Specie Circular." 
Some say the short crops and influx of emigration cause a scarcity of provisions, and the great body of people lay all the blame of "Hard Times" at the door of speculators. 
Friday March 17, 183 7. I believe that some if not all of the above causes combined have had a tendency to bring [about] the existing state of things. Our banking system is corrupt. The" Specie Circular" by its operation has drawn much of the coin into our Western States and drained our Eastern Banks, who of course have drawn in their debts and curtailed their business as a necessary act of fortification. 
Saturday March 18, 1837. Add to this the wild and headlong Spirit of Speculation and the scarcity of provisions, and the difficulty ls swelled to an enormous size, bearing hardly upon the business men and industrious poor. 
618 
Sunday March 19, 1837. Blaise Pascal was a wonderful man of whom any country may be proud. 
Yes and I might say, church. He belonged to the Catholic, which persecuted him while living and eulogized him when dead and she had nothing to fear from [him] in censuring her corruption and abuses. Pascal's mind was of the first order--acute and strong. 
Monday March 20, 1837. Hon. Joseph C. Yates died yesterday at the age of sixty-nine years. He was first Governor under the new Constitution in the years '22 and '23 and for the last ten years has lived in retirement. He is said to have been a man of moderate capacity and little energy and to have been made a mere tool or scapegoat to bear away the sins of certain unpopular measures, at the ushering of the Constitution. 
Tuesday March 21, 1837. Prof. Yates told me this morning that formerly he was a man of studious habits and strict attention to business, but that ever since he retired from active life and mental exercise his mind had been failing until he became a mere child. 
Wednesday March 22, 1837. I am in a state of conflicting "betweenity." College wants my services for one term more, and altho it has no claims to them inasmuch as I have obtained a substitute in M. Reed yet if it were consistent with my arrangements for the future and with my health I should be pleased to assist in keeping the old wheels moving. 
But why should I sacrifice health to the desire of living in inglorious ease even if it be attended with some degree of honor and emolument? Even if it be attended by literary pleasures, which of all other intellectual pursuits are the most lasting and honorable? 
I would like to continue a literary life and be a Professor but I well know that the consequences would [be] a lasting and protracted debility of body arising from want of necessary exercise. I am induced too from another con sideratlon to continue a bookish man from the pride of my heart which revolts at exercising a more humble profession for the purpose of a livelihood. But is it right that I should indulge such reflections of regret at leaving a favorite employment and of pride on entering an humbler one, considering the circumstances which occasion this removal? 
Thursday March 23, 1837. Read Gouge's book on the "American Banking System," a work which has given me much insight into the art, but which on the whole I cannot say that I am pleased with. I think that he carries his notions of Species Currency too far [for] the good of a commercial and enterprising community--notions which possibly might be tolerated in a despotic country where trade and spirit were stifled by arbitrary laws, but 
Bl9 
not under a government like ours. I would approve of doing away with bank notes of small denominations and in their place substitut[ing] gold and silver, but still I can not but think[?] useful. 
Friday March 24, 1837. Dr. Nott must now be near seventy years of age, near half of which he has spent as President of this Institution. Under his auspices it has uniformly risen in the estimation of the public until it now stands among the first colleges in the country. 
Hitherto the Doctor has preached [little], but has been chiefly occupied, besides his collegiate duties, in improvements on stoves and steam-boilers. 
Since his failure last fall, he seems to [have] entirely left his affairs in the hands of his sons and turned his attention more to the College and pulpit. 
He has preached more within three months than in the preceding five years. Thus the Doctor is mending his ways. 
Saturday March 25, 1837. Delightful day. Spi::ing is opening with splendor and great beauty. The robin has returned and nature seems again returning to you th. 
How cheerful is now the heart of man! How pleasure beams in his countenance! But, alas, there is a worm gnawing at the root of his happiness which throws a shade over his brightest day. Disease and death alike come in our happiest moment and in the most disastrous moments of our lives. The heart may swell with pleasure, the eye may beam with delightful satisfaction, but then the cold chilling thought rushes over our fond hopes like the deadly winds of Sahara. 
Oh how can man live an unrellgious being? How can he sport with even the most exciting pleasures, except the consolation of religion stay his flagging spirits and decaying hopes? 
Sunday March 26, 1837. Glorious day. The heavens smile upon us with most benignant countenance. Nature is resuscitated and all her creatures are happy but man. 
Here he cannot be. Hereafter he may be. With every breath he inspires he takes in a poisonous atmosphere, with every pulsation his system is liable to disarrangement, and every lingering pain to which he is daily subject warns him of his mortality. Oh how can reasonable beings be so infatuated with this short pilgrimage! How can they long to stay here when death calls them home; yea home, for eternity is their habitation. 
Monday March 27, 1837. Examination of the Freshman Class was brought 

on before the Committee this afternoon. 
To what a provoking and inconvenient pitch of pedantry our novel 
makers and newspaper scribblers have arrived! 
How astonishingly impudent! How unmannerly and disrespectful to 
their tongue! 
I have just thrown by Willis' "pencillings by the way" in disgust, because, among many other flat things unworthy such a mind, he has adopted that unmanly habit fit only for scavengers of newspapers of bespattering writings with French words and phrases. I wish the English was sufficiently copious for him. I am sure his works would be read with more pleasure and profit. 
Willis is, however, no more obnoxious to this charge than others. A sprinkling of foreign dialects is now indispensable to season a book well and make it gustable. Else who would know that the author was learned and moved in "good Society"? To puzzle a reader or hearer with quotations.is a sure mark of breeding and gives one a little [appearance?] of being profound, although incomprehensible! 
Tuesday March 28, 1837. John Foster, Fellow, will leave at the end of this term and take charge of an Academy in Albany for which reason I have been persuaded to stay another term or until another person can be obtained, on the condition of having but two recitations. 
Wednesday March 29, 1837. Water in the Mohawk up, and still rising. Ice moved down this evening. Hudson cleared itself also rather later than usual, I think, this spring. My class on Conic Sections did themselves much honor at the Examination. 
Thursday March 30, 1837. I am degenerating, of a truth, into a lazy listless mode of thinking and living. Where are my industrious habits of study for which I was distinguished in days gone by? Shame to me! Sinner that I am, how many minutes do I lose, nay hours? 
Friday March 31,-1837. The influence of bad books upon the morals of men is deplorable, the consequences are disastrous to our morals, not only corrupting the mind of men but giving them a distaste to all better reading. "Light Reading" is all that our minds can relish, like stomachs vitiated by high seasoned food, comfits and cakes. Our intellectual taste can not relish a more substantial diet. 
Saturday April 1, 1837. Obscene books are the greatest incentives to lust that we now have amongst us which together with the theatre set all our youth a-whoring. They set our smothered passions on fire and incite us to the gratification of our abominable appetites in the most unlawful and 
disgraceful way. Oh Mores! 
Sunday April 2, 1837. E.A. Huntington preached in the Dutch Church for Dr. Van Vechten; he did very well for a young man, although I thought he overacted his performance in attempting to show what I knew he did not feel. A man who reads sermons might better put his hands in his breeches' pockets. They would certainly appear better than they would swinging about his head whilst his head is thrust down to his ms. Written sermons are the greatest clog upon the efficacy of our ministry that I know of. Of all public speakers our sermon-readers produce least effect, such at least as they would wish to produce. They charm their hearers to sleep, indeed, and that is all. 
Monday April 3, 1837. Money matters are in an exceedingly bad state. I am told that such distress in our commercial affairs has not been known for twenty years--since the close of the last war when so many banks stopped payment of specie for their notes. 
I am convinced that much blame should be attached to some of our politicians for meddling with the monetary affairs of our c,ountry and wresting the banks from honest and experienced men and putting them into the care of time-serving partisans who pervert them to vile party purposes. 
Tuesday April 4, 1837. Great men pass for more than they are worth by those who know them not; by those who know them well, are underrated. The same men upon whom I looked with passing respect and awe five years ago, I despise, and those in all probability who now claim my respect will as many years hence be in the like condition of opinion. 
Wednesday April S, 1837. Monsieur de la Bruyere's "Characters, or Manners of the Age" is an excellent book full of wisdom and sage reflections. It is an old book and perhaps not much read; nevertheless its merits cannot be judged thereby, for nothing pleases now but modern type, good paper, and super-gilt binding. Our old dish of roast beef doesn't suit modern palates unless it be served in china dishes and is so disguised by spices and high seasonings that one may not know whether he is eating fish or flesh. 
Thursday April 6, 1837. How much easier to read a good book than make one; how much easier to steal an idea than originate one. Originality? There is none. We have no use for the word since the occasion which brought it into use is removed. We only republish what has been published a thousand times and serve up old ideas in new forms and disguises. 
Friday April 7, 1837. Graffed is the mayor of a city, the owner of great 
possessions and bears great honor among men who know little of his 
private character. 
Good cheer and the wine bottle tell upon him, both in the rubicuridity of his phiz and the rotundity of his abdomen. 
He is a bachelor from necessity ('tis said) because he cannot perform all the duties of a husband, having been disabled in his youth by some unlucky disease. I cannot vouch for this, but so common report says. By intrigue and money he has obtained the votes of his district and ls made a member to Congress. Alas my country! when such men bear rule. 
Saturday April 8, 1837. We have too many of this class in office, men who would sell their country for a mess of pottage. It is proverbial that "An honest [man] cannot get an office." He that does not descend to low trickery and wheedle the multitude and pamper the evil propensities of the vulgar with money or grog cannot succeed. 
Sunday April 9, 1837. "Woe is me for I am a man ofuncleanlips"--and thoughts and actions. Do I not steal the livery of Heaven to serve the Devil in? My religion is but skin-deep. I am a fair-weather Christian, a halting pilgrim, a willing, consenting captive to sin. I may deceive men but "Thou God seest me." I am as open to this as the day. 
Monday April 10, 1837. The great absorbing topic of a woman's mind is dress and shows. They know that they are beautiful and strive to set off their comeliness to the best advantage. Who knows better the price of goods and the latest fashions? who knows better where good silks and calicoes may be found? Beauty is a woman's stronghold which, if skilfully managed, may accomplish much good. 
Tuesday April 11, 1837. I would that they considered not only that we men are caught -thereby, but that we are also held thereby. A woman should please before marriage, yea, and much more should she strive to do so after. In default whereof how many have estranged the affections of their partners and planted a thorn in their own bosoms. 
Wednesday April 12, 1837. Chaste wives herein might learn something from unchaste wenches, who labor as hard to retain their lovers as to obtain them. Shame to a scolding slut, with shoes down at heel and stockings dangling about her ankles, and hair uncombed, and dress disordered from negligence! Can she make an agreeable companion? Nay, her husband often mates with whores [rather] than her. 
Thursday April 13, 1837. The "Persian Letters" are surely pretty, and written in true Asiatic style. The Author has shown therein ingenuity and talent. Having imagined himself in the place of an Eastern man he has generally carved out the character to perfection. Of questionable morality however. 
Friday April 14, 1837. I am astonished at the fewness of man's real wants. What of all these luxuries which wealth creates is necessary to the comfortable enjoyment of life and health? 
Because we are clothed in costly apparel and fare sumptuously, because we reside in splendid mansions and have many servants at our command, it surely should not [be] argued that therefore we are the happier for all these superfluities or that they are necessary to our happiness. 
Poor creatures of the dust whose breath is in our nostrils, and who are today, and tomorrow are not, why should we be so anxious about many things? Why should we vex our souls for that which perishes with the using? 
Saturday April 15, 1837. When we pray we seldom have any definite petition, but stray at random over the whole field of Christian benevolence. This should not be. Neither ought our prayers be so long as to make all knees weary and tax one's patience beyond endurance. Short, appropriate petitions at the throne of grace are certainly delightful fragrance to the Almighty and refreshing [to] his creatures. 
Sunday April 16, 1837. In addressing the throne of Grace I have thought we should first hallow the name of God, this being Christ's example in his celebrated form taught to his disciples. Then we may humble ourselves by acknowledging our sins and asking forgiveness for the same and by free and full repentance. 
Monday April 17, 1837. Here is room for the most limited capacity to find much to say, and the more open our outpourings of heart to God, the more may we ease our burdened spirits. In connection with this we should speak of the Great Sacrifice by which we [are] brought unto a throne of Grace. This theme is enough to occupy the mind for ages and expand it to its utmost capacity. 
Tuesday April 18, 1837. I hear from the pulpit and from laity the oft.repeated story of the Christian's wrongs and buffetings in this world that 

really one would think he was hunted from the face of the earth. Now what is the true state of the case? Is the profession of religion then so unpopular as they have us to believe? 
Wednesday April 19, 1837. Must a man forego personal safety, civil privileges, and public respect in becoming a Christian? By no means. His weight of character is on the contrary greatly increased and no man passes for more in the estimation of a community than the consistent follower of Christ. Religion is not unpopular. The experience of every man is to the contrary. 
Hudson River 
á Thursday April 20, 1837. The whole day has found me busied in preparing for a trip to Philadelphia, to visit my friends and attend the Bible Convention of our denomination. At 3 was whisked off towards Albany at a rapid rate by steam. What wonders this invention of the Steam Engine has effected! It is a majestic sight to see a train of carriages with a locomotive at their head moving off at the rate of thirty miles an hour and _bidding defiance to every obstruction, scouring the country with the quickness of light and annihilating space! A few years may supersede even this great facility and introduce a still greater. Took passage in a new boat called the Swallow, which was crowded to excess. Oh a night on board such a .craft! It is sufficient to drive one crazy. Sleep you cannot, for it is thump, thump all night. 
New York April 21, 1837. Arrived in city at two o'clock in nine hours from Albany! What would our fathers have said to this? 
I have often spoke of New York; more would perhaps be needless, but one thing astonished me-to see such a sight as is presented upon the "Burnt District." The whole space of many acres which one year ago was in ruins is now covered with splendid stores erected in the most costly and fire-proof manner! What people but this is capable of such a work? What city but this could [have] arisen like a Phoenix from his ashes and sat like that fabled bird new-clothed in the vigor of youth? This is the wonder of wonders. 
Visited Staten Island. New Brighton is beyond commendation. It is a paradise, beautiful beyond imagination. I have nowhere seen more elegance of taste displayed than in the classic richness of the architecture of the country seats. Wealth has a power of magic! 

Bob Strong studies or rather practices law in Judge Talmadge's office in Wall Street. I really cannot see what time he gets for his books. 
Philadelphia Saturday April 22, 1837. Arrived at Philadelphia without any new strange or alarming event! 
Found friends well and apparently glad to see me. 
Oh the city of brotherly love is the place for me after all! I never was content in any place beside. Had I a fortune sufficient it should be my residence, but that never will be. I must struggle with poverty and discontent, pride and indecision. 
Sunday April 23, 1837. Here we have it --three inches of snow and sleet! Is this Philadelphia climate ? I'll return to Dorp where snow comes in its proper season. Weather cannot be more disagreeable. Och! Och! Friend.Gillett as of old. Two strangers aided him. That's all. 
Monday April 24, 1837. Spent much of the day in bookstores rummaging . over musty tomes. Visited a few friends and the Academy of Fine Arts where West's picture of Death on the Pale Horse is now exhibited. Grand, sublime affair! 
The women of Philadelphia excel those of any other city in the beauty of their personal appearance, dress and neatness. 
Their apparel is less splendid and gaudy than that of N.Y. ladies but much more becoming. Philadelphia has a style of dress peculiar to itself as well as a style of architecture. 
Tuesday April 25, 1837. This day delegates met and organized a convention for the State. 
Of all men the Baptists of Philadelphia have the greatest itch for speech-making in public meetings and the least aptness for energetic action. They will trot all day in a half~bushel measure. 
Wednesday April-26, 1837. Morning. 
Meeting of the Foreign Missions Society at ten o'clock. Report read by Dr. Bolles of Boston. Affairs generally prosperous. Afternoon. Three o'clock. Bible Convention at Dr. Brantley's church. Dr. Babcock appointed President. Baron Stow and Abdiel Sherwood [of] Georgia, Sec[retaries]. 
Speeches by Spencer H. Cone, Dr. Brantly and others. 
I presume such a meeting of uur denomination never before convened. More than 200 [ 400?] delegates are present representing Baptists of 24states and the District of Columbia. 

l-.., The talent, wisdom, and influence of the Baptists are here, and although there is a mighty difference of opinion on the subject which we have convened to discuss, yet we hope by mutual concession to be able to meet on some common ground which will unite the whole body of Baptists. The New England delegation generally wish no distinct organization, but think our Mission Society, the headquarters of which is at Boston, fully adequate to all foreign distribution and the American Bible Society for domestic. 
The New York Baptists and the Middle, Southern and Western, want a new Society and the majority, a Society founded on the broadest principles. "The World is the Field" in their estimation. 
Thursday April 27, 1837. The whole convention have come to this point: we must have a distinct organization, but here we split on this question. Shall if be both foreign and domestic or only foreign? The majority want a Society unrestricted in its operations, but a few are strenuous for confining it solely to foreign distribution. 
Here the question has stood all day and been discussed and tossed on every side. It has elicited some pretty warm speech and much talent and eloquence. 
Mr. Welch of Albany spoke this evening in one of the most perfect bursts of eloquence that I ever heard from the lips of man. 
Every soul seemed to hang upon his lips as if by enchantment, and hardly a breath was drawn during his speech. The effect was thrilling and electric and at the close every auditor wished to applaud . He is certainly one of the most wonderful men of our country. Without education or the encouragements of friends, at the age of twenty-eight he left his trade (engraver's) and commenced preaching. Since that time he has arisen to an eminence from which he can overlook almost every clergyman in our land. 
Dr. Wayland spoke. He is not a very pretty speaker but a man of great talents and erudition. What a head for the phrenologist! His forehead hangs over his face like an over-hanging rock of a precipice. Dr. Sharp spoke. In him I was rather disappointed. He would have done better on the other side of the question. 
Mr. Hague of Boston is a smart young man and he knows it. This has spoilt him. I fear too much prosperity and adulation will ruin the poor youth. 
Friday April 28, 1837. The debate has been prolonged through the day and evening and finally was unanimously settled by this compromise. The Bible Society shall confine its operation to foreign distribution during this year; and at the next meeting of the Triennial Convention the denomination shall signify their wishes in regard to domestic distribution. 

The debate today was animated [but] exhibited the spirit of forebearance 
and concession. 
Elan Galusha made a great speech tonight, full of point and eloquence. 
Finally the deed is done which forms us in to a Bible Society--a deed which will undoubtedly be the cause of joy in heaven and in earth by the souls which may be redeemed through its instrumentality. 
Tomorrow the officers are to be chosen, constitution proposed and 
the location established. 
But I must leave in the morning's boat. 
Brabrook and wife(!!) are here on their way to St. Louis where he is to take charge of a Baptist Church. Sawá also Illsbry and Porter, old classmates in Waterville. The former to be settled in Brooklyn, the latter already in Lowell. 
Saturday. April 29, 1837. 
All along the way 
Bright sunny day. Among our passengers were many delegates of the Convention returning home, which made my morning's ride much more agreeable. 
My old friend Ilsley is really doing well, having already before he leaves the Seminary been chosen pastor of one of the best churches of Brooklyn. He succeeds Leland Howard and has a salary of twelve hundred dollars. May heaven pamper his labors! 
New York never looked more beautifully than this afternoon as we neared the "Queen of the West." Left the city at five o'clock on the steamboat Swallow which was followed by the Rochester in chase. Perhaps two boats never were never so equally mated in speed from New York to Newburgh. I do not think the distance between them five rods, notwithstanding both were pressing all the power possible. Pitch wood was used on board both boats and split into small bits for the purpose of raising the greater heat. 
If one has not been on board a boat at such a time [he] can conceive with difficulty of the excitement which reigns among the passengers and men, the pale and affrighted looks among the women and the significant glances of the men. If it be in the night the spectacle is doubly heightened by the mingled clouds of fire and smoke which pour from the chimneys. The race was over, however, before we arrived at Newburgh on account of the breaking of something 'on board' of the Rochester. We accomplished the distance to Newburgh in three hours sixteen minutes, which is said to be a quick passage. 
There is no sleep to my eyes on a boat. Comfort flees and noise with confusion succeed. 

Schenectada 
Sunday April 30, 183 7. Arrived early this morning at home much fatigued 
and sleepy. Heard a very considerable quantity of rant at our church. 
Union College Monday May 1, 1837. Commenced operations in College by giving my boys their lessons for tomorrow. I feel completely "blue" and have been so since I came from Philadelphia. I can like Dorp no longer. I cannot say that I ever did, but the sight of it now "gives me the horrors." 
Tuesday May 2, 1837. Have two recitations --Algebra in morning and Geometry in P.M. Anticipate pleasant and easy term. Have charge of Foster's Section. Pretty good set of boys, I think. 
Weather quite cool as yet. The whole country seems to be on the eve of bankruptcy. Since the formation of this government we have never seen such times, in which the want of money was so great and failure so extensive. 
The "pressure" reaches every village and hamlet and paralyzes all sorts of business. The rich and the poor equally suffer, or I might rather say the poor laborer is the chief sufferer, for he is thrown out of employ and left to starve with his needy family. 
The New York merchants and mechanics are particularly great sufferers. Near two hundred large houses have already fallen a sacrifice to the "Gold Experiment" of Gen'l. Jackson, and from this point the pressure is moving northward through New England, shutting up the cotton mills and throwing hundreds of laborers out of employ. 
Amidst this universal distress our Government will not relent or relax their destructive measures. The Specie Circular which drains us of specie will not be repealed until Congress meets and after the commercial affairs of our country are deranged almost past remedy, in spite if Mr. Van Buren sets things in their right places by repealing the Treasury Circular. It will come too late however, to save us. 
Wednesday May 3, 1837. It is said that the poison contained in the froth of a mad dog's mouth is sufficient to communicate hydrophobia to any other animal if applied to any wound. Now why has not this foam been examined and the poison been analyzed? Its antidote might in all probability thus be discovered and a dreadful malady averted from our race. 
I believe the chemist might by the aid of analysis render essential service to the physician in this terrible disease. It is said that a German has cured the hydrophobia or at least prevented the effects of the bites of a mad animal by means of Galvanism. His experiments look very conclusive and it is to be hoped are genuine. 
(Witness Edward {Edmond?] Savage) 
Thursday May 4, 1837. Nine o'clock P.M. I am just informed by Prof. Savage that chlorine has so powerful an affinity for potassium that the latter burns with a remarkably brilliant flame when thrown into the former !!!! As has just been experimentally demonstrated by said Prof. of Chemistry !!!! said Savage affirms also that the notion of writing every day in a diary is an old-womanish whim, in evidence of which he appeals to the fact that much nonsense must thus be occasioned as is abundantly evident from the contents of the previous pages of this book and particularly from this page. 
To the first part of Mr. Savage's affirmation I cannot assent; but to the latter I do with all my heart. Still as my nonsense, I tell him, affects only myself as it meets no one's eye, it may be tolerated. 
Friday May 5, 1837. The all-absorbing top~c among all classes is the derangement of our money affairs. The pressure! The Pressure! is the prolific source of all newspaper articles: and this proclamation from the press of "bankruptcy" and national dishonor is no more than what is responded to by the people generally, I believe. The state of our affairs is truly deplorable. 
Saturday May 6, 1837. I have commenced the Botany again in earnest and, as my leisure during the present term will be considerable, I hope to pursue it with some success. 
The chief pleasure of Botany is to me the excitement and joy that one feels in finding a new flower, as well as the healthfulness of the exercise when ranging the hills and valleys. 
The student of nature cannot but find in plants ample evidences of design and wisdom. ' 
Sunday May 7, 1837. It is seldom that I mention the subject of religion in my journal because I suppose I think little about it; although the most important of all things, this is the least accounted by us of the multitude of subjects that crowd upon us for consideration. 
I have ever followed God afar off, laying hold upon heaven with one hand and upon earth with the other. "Oh Lord search me and try me and see if there be any evil way in me." 
Monday May 8, 1837. Death like a staunch murderer follows his victims 

without relenting. What changes he works in the earth among men! How 
he destroys their prospects in life, how he extinguishes their hopes, how he 
sweeps off generation after generation! 
Tuesday May 9, 1837. The manufactories of New England are beginning to stop owing to the stagnation of business, throwing out of employ hundreds of operatives who depended upon them for support; and yet amidst all this distress which overwhelms the country there are those who exalt [exult?] over its ruin and anounce the stoppage of some large houses in New York in such terms as these: "Good news." We understand that "several large houses have suspended" payment during the present week, &c. The above is the substance of an article published in the New Hampshire Patriot a 
short time since. 
Such a sentiment is worthy of the Editor, Cyrus Barton. 
Wednesday May 10, 1837. Ashman of my class is now in town spending his vacation at Mr. Van Santvord's, whose daughter he is courting in right earnest. 1 cannot judge from experience but it does seem as though a man . must be mad in love and careless of all appearances, to spend four or five weeks in such near proximity to the object of his adoration. 
But I suppose we must all be fools once in the course of courtship and love. 
Thursday May 11, 1837. Circumstances very easily turn our minds and change the course of our designs. A few months ago I determined to leave teaching and all sedentary life and devote myself to active pursuits for the benefit of my health. 
Now, from causes which I did not then foresee, I am determined to remain in [my] present vocation for a time at least. 
One reason is the unparalleled embarrassment in all affairs connected with the commercial interest of our country. So uncertain is any business ... 
Friday May 12, -1837 .... at the present time that he who is in any occupation that will afford a comfortable livelihood is unwise to leave for hopes of better. 
Another reason is that my health is better and prospects are flattering in regard to my permanent location here as a teacher. 
Saturday May 13, 1837. The state of the case is this. Dr. Joslin thinks of leaving the Institution within a year, in which event his place will probably be occupied by Savage and Savage's by myself--thereby giving me a permanent and pleasant situation. But on the supposition that I do 
83l 
not stay with any such hopes I had rather do so than cut afloat at this 
season. 
Sunday May 14, 1837. Sunday Schools are rearing up a generation more learned in the Bible than any previous--a generation that, as they will be more critical, will need a more learned and talented ministry. Every Sabbath School scholar who attends from the age of eight years,to sixteen the faithful instructions of a teacher becomes a little theologian ... 
Monday May 15, 1837 .... who is able to judge of and discriminate for himself the doctrines and precepts of the Bible, as set forth by the minister of the Gospel. But woe to the people who have a pastor without piety, be his learning ever so great. 
Tuesday May 16, 1837. What effect does learning--! mean the ordinary course of collegiate and theological education--have upon the piety of a man? 
Does his tone of piety pale as the mind expands? I have thought much on this subject but perhaps am not as yet competent to judge with accuracy. 
Wednesday May 17, 1837. However it may be, the prejudice of mankind sits that way. Do not our seminaries of theology help to perpetuate the crying evil of reading sermons which so extensively prevails in the church? It is my deliberate opinion that, of all other things combined, nothing is so decidedly injurious to the minister's influence as that of reading sermons. 
Thursday May 18, 1837. A division of the Senior Class have petitioned me to hear them in Botany. I confessed to them that I knew nothing about the subject, but told them that if I could assist them a little I would do so with pleasure. 
Seniors will not study during the last term, so that they may as well do one thing as another. 
Friday May 19, 1837. Much of the pleasure of teaching depends upon the scholars whom you teach. The police of an institution is mere drudgery especially if one has wild mischievous boys. This is the pleasantest term I have spent as Fellow. 
Saturday May 20, 183 7. The study or rather the practical part of Botany will preserve my health this term. It is really a fine exercise to amble through all the bogs and ravines, 

over the hill and among the forests after plants, as well as a great pleasure and actual source of profit. 
Sunday May 21, 1837. I received [my] turn of mind from the instructions of my mother who taught me religious truths in my infancy. What encouragement for mothers to be faithful to the great interests of their children and bring them up in the way they should go. 
Monday May 22, 1837. I was a child of prayer and religious convictions. 
Many a time on my way to school, through the fields, I have offered my petitions to God in secret, and often preached little sermons of reproof and instruction to my companions. 
The Holy Spirit never left striving with me after I knew a God. 
Tuesday May 23, 1837. Spring opens some days later than usual as the flowering of plants indicates. I suppose a more delicate test of the forwardness of a season cannot be found. 
Wednesday May 24, 183 7. The moneyed affairs of a great commercial country is a complicated piece of machinery which cannot be meddled with save with the greatest precaution. [Query] Has not our general Government most unfortunately tampered too much with currency and thrown disorder into every branch of industry? AYE! in thunder. 
Thursday May 25, 1837. Ashman of my class is now spending a few weeks in town on a visit matrimonial or rather preparatory to that decisive step. He stays at Mr. Van Santvord's, his intended father-in-law, and woos the lady with most decided perseverance. Such manifest indications of patient and constant action before the fortress of the lady's coyness and hesitancy must be rewarded by ultimate success. 
Here is an illustration of the silliness of red-hot love, which consumes a man's wit. 
Friday May 26, 1837. I had received the impression from report that Eaton was a great practical botanist, but upon using his book (Manual) I am inclined to think differently. It looks to me like "scissors' work." The descriptions appear to have been collected without much discrimination and to have been made rather from dried plants from herbariums, rather than from actual inspection of living specimens. 
Saturday May 27, 1837. From a superficial reading of Pursh's North American Flora I am led to think it a more accurate work than Eaton's 

although not so systematically arranged. Pursh was a man who travelled extensively for twelve or eighteen years in this country collecting plants and consulting scientific men who were most capable of furthering his object, and after all this laborious research he published his book. I can not think that we have many American botanists if any who have travelled so extensively for the purpose of improving themselves, as this European. Botany is a fine study undoubtedly, but the obstacles to the beginner with such a work as Eaton's must effectually disgust him. 
I will not say that he alone is peculiarly dark and obscure in his descriptions, but I say this, that if Botany has no better assistants than such as this she needs others before many will ever trouble themselves to examine this branch of science. We want fuller and more correct descriptions. 
Conciseness in description I should take to be Eaton's only aim in his work. I should think it strange if we had no better American work, although, at present owing to my limited knowledge I can not mention one. 
Sunday May 28, 1837. In a pastor what should be the first and most important qualification? Doubtless, piety; not a piety which causes a man to refrain from known sins only, but an active, self-denying, burning piety which seeks the good of others and the salvation of souls. 
Monday May 29, 1837. Now is this the first question which a congregation asks when they seek a minister? "Is he an actively pious man?" I say almost never; but rather "At what college and seminary did he graduate?" and "Is he smart" 7 
I have been so long conversant with those who esteem, at least by every indication except open avowal, a show of intellect in a sermon greater than ardent zeal and piety, that I am sick at heart with the eternal battery of criticism that is opened against the Christian minister. 
Tuesday May 30, 1837. Talents and excellency of speech are good, yea very necessary, in a preacher but they are not the only thing needful. The minister in his pastoral duties may do more good than in the pulpit and those who have the right spirit actually do so. 
Wednesday May 31, 183 7. I am satisfied of this thing, that we often despise men, unjustly, for faults of which we ourselves are guilty. We often slander them for what they are in no wise to blame. This I find illustrated in the case of students of College. 
It is often that those very students whom we thought great dunces and always characterized them as such do after leaving College make useful and eminent [citizens?] notwithstanding our prophecies of barrenness. 

Thursday June 1, 1837. Why should that man be a fool who cannot learn either a lesson in mathematics or the languages? There may be something for which his talents are fitted and in which he may excel. Many a man who has been prematurely pronounced non compos has after all become eminent for usefulness. "Despise not the day of small things." 
For myself I would like to banish this harsh and uncharitable judgement of others who do not come up to our own arbitrary standard of greatness and let every man stand or fall by his own works. I know that I 
á have often spoken unadvisedly of men who afterwards have exceeded my expectation. 
Friday June 2, 1837. I am getting more reconciled to my present mode of life as I have more experience, although I do not know that I shall ever like it well. 
At the West College the boys are more manageable, less roguish, and less slothful than on the Hill where it is much áin fashion for them to get to be "hard cases." 
Saturday June 3, 1837. Strange how wrong public opinion is in College as far as it respects study and recitations. . 
They are considered too much in the light of tasks imposed upon them not so much for their own good as a matter of course in the administration of College duties. Their teachers are held as tyrants who exercise authority merely for the love of it and whose duties are therefore a matter of choice. Students are mistaken in many of their views respecting college, regarding it not as an institution founded merely for their benefit exclusively, but as a prison in which they are immured for a space and then sent forth when they have served out their term. 
Sunday June 4, 1837. Of all College duties none is more irksome to me than to officiate in Chapel at morning prayers, not because I do not wish to draw near to the Throne at all times but because of the embarrassing circumstance which attends this duty. 
Our Profs have got into a dry and formal way of praying which is alike useless and disagreeable. It seems that they pray as a matter of course, without that ardent desire for the salvation of the souls of their pupils which could lead them to earnest and zealous petitions at the throne of grace. 

Monday June S, 1837. I can not pray without feeling-at all times I do not feel in the true state of devotion. Besides it seems to be expected that we all shall pursue the same dull monotonous way to the throne of grace and act as though we had a [tie?] in our mouths; hence this duty is irksome. 
Tuesday June G, 1836. My life is very crooked. The paths of my feet are not straight, but I have many rugged upclivities to ascend, and downs, many and difficult, and many sharp corners to turn which require all my skill to prevent capsizing. 
Wednesday June 7, 1837. Our country is in a most unfortunate condition. Provisions are high, money scarce, business nothing, and distress is staring 
us in the face. 
Our specie is going to Europe and paupers are coming in exchange. 
Thursday June 8, 1837. Seth Bunnell of my class is married and preaching! 
'' tis said, with very considerable success. Why not? Does it always happen that the man of the most brains always succeeds best in the world? 
Or does it not depend much upon his assurance? 
Friday June 9, 1837. As a specimen of Dr. Nott's wisdom I note this fact. Lerow, a member of the present Senior Class from Boston, was formerly connected with Waterville College where he made himself known by his violent abolition measures. He is a fellow that thrives best under opposition, hence, when Dr. Babcock opposed the formation of a Society, Lerow came into notice as the champion of rights trampled upon and liberty of speech and action. 
Saturday June 10, 1837. He tried the same game here but without success. When he applied to Dr. Nott for permission to form an Abolition Society, expecting without doubt a flat denial, he was answered thus; "Yes, my son, you may form just as many Societies in College as you have a mind to." From that day Lerow never hoped to attain notoriety, and he became insignificant only because he was not opposed. 
Sunday June 11, 1837. I can but observe the variableness of feeling manifested bv many Christians in regard to religious matters. Today they may be elated to the third heavens and tomorrow be depressed to the lowest depth of despondency. 
When they feel well, religion is their hobby-horse but when these feelings change they get down and go without her. An equable state of mind is above all things to be desired as it is the 

sure indication of a calm and quiet spirit. 
Fewá Christians however run well _in every part of their race; sometimes they lag, then again they dart forward with alacrity; sometimes they get weary and faint, and then they feel as though they could break through the troop and put to flight a thousand. 
Monday June 12, 1837. Is modern religion any more subject to this than the old? So it is said, particularly that which consists of protracted meetings and all the machinery of conversion. Now there may be something in all this, but not so much as some assert. We have arrived at that point when old measures and new measures in religion are arrayed in opposition to each other. 
Tuesday June 13, 1837. He that can learn to be content in whatever lot he is placed has found the true philosophy of living. 
Wednesday June 14, 1837. A literary man views things through the light of letters. A man is a man in his estimation inasmuch as he has arrived at intelligence or learning, but this attainment will not atone for the want of scientific knowledge. 
He is a dunce if not a scholar. It is my candid opinion that men, young men especially, are wonderfully in true wisdom in this respect. 
Thursday June 15, 1837. Why should we say at once, because a man is not eminent in scholarship or is deficient in one or many branches of knowledge such as we deem befitting a scholar, that he is a dunce? Yet such is the case very often. We call all dunces who do not come up to our own standard of excellence. 
Friday June 16, 1837. We do not make suitable allowance for difference in tastes and for the foibles and errors of men. 
For instance, how many of those very young men whom we now despise as fools may arrive at the greatest excellence in some profession. Many whom we now esteem as great are full of faults. 
Saturday June 17, 1837. So corrupt is the heart of man that even the Christian is barely able to stand, even by the grace of God. What evil thoughts and imaginings proceed forth from the mind of man! 
[Gap to September 1, 1837] 
Friday September 1, 183 7. Health, one of the greatest blessings of life, without which all other good earthly good, I mean, is embittered, I do not 

enjoy. The pain in my side which I have complained of so many years is still my disturber. Without almost continual exercise it cannot be avoided. 
Saturday September 2, 1837. I am tired of this whining and groaning 
about ill health brought on by sedentary habits and want of labor and 
often think it were far better to be a day-laborer with his healthy 
countenance than a student, sallow in complexion, weak and consumptive 
in body and forever complaining of indigestion and pain in side. 
What does knowledge amount to without health to enjoy and apply it? [In pencil, an addition, possibly not by JP] 
Sunday September 3, 1837. "Great is the mystery of Godliness," said the Apostle and well may he say so for "who by searching can find out God?" He is higher than heaven, what can we know? He is deeper than Hell, what can we do? When is he not found "if we ascend up into Heaven he is [there] or if we descend into Hell, behold he is there; if we take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, behold then his hoard [horde?] shall lead us and his right hand shall hold us." 
Monday September 4, 1837. I dislike above all things at this crisis in our commercial affairs to hear ministers attributing our distresses to the immediate action of Deity in visiting our nation for its sins. That there is much truth in this assertion I do not deny, or that we deserve it, but it savors too much in my estimation of politics and political reasons. 
Tuesday September 5, 1837. The Van Buren man, of course, is quite ready to join with the preacher in denouncing the "speculating, overtrading, credit dealing" spirit of the times, because it places his idol out of the reach of all responsibility and censure, while the opponent of the Administration dissents totally from the doctrines of the divine and lays all our nation's distresses at the the door of the President. 
Wednesday September 6, 1837. In such a state, let clergymen not meddle with the reasons of our embarrassments but pray that we may be delivered from them. 
How true it is that we always judge of man and measures according to the standards of exellence in our usual professions. Thus a clergyman will judge of such according to their moral and religious influence, the literary man according to intellectual greatness. 
[Gap from September 6, 1837 to October 1, 1837] Oournal of a visit to Philadelphia, May & June?? to be inserted between pages 102 and??? of Diary for???] 

Union College Sunday October 1, 1837. This is the customary season appointed for the commemoration of the Lord's death by the Supper in our Church. It should be a day of uncommon interest to the Christian, a day of humiliation and prayer above all others, a day of heart-searching and repentance; but oh! a day how improperly spent even by many of the children of the Kingdom. Why do we eat and drink so unworthily, not discerning the broken body and the spilled blood of the Savior? 
Why so often does condemnation rest upon us when we come to the table of our Lord? 
Why do we sometimes fear to approach the Sacred Symbol as forbidden bread? Why do we shrink from what it is our own peculiar privilege to partake of? 
Alas! the whole may be answered briefly in one word-.
It is "sin" that hinders. 
Monday October 2, 1837. It appears as though our nation was approaching a crisis when the Union will be shaken to its center, if it be not prostrated. I fear corruption is at work in our Government and that our rulers. are more anxious for their own aggrandizement than for the interests of the people whom they are elevated to their high stations to serve and benefit. To what is the tendency of this clashing of Northern and Southern interests if it be not disunion? The North must and will awake to the subject of slavery sooner or later and then may be expected a secession of the slave.holding states which are wedded to a system that will eventually work out their ruin. 
Tuesday October 3, 1837. How strangely inconsistent we are as a people! continually boasting of our liberal opinions and government, comforting ourselves that we have a Constitution that guarantees equal rights to all with freedom of speech and thought, [while] in fact we are as far from the spirit of that instrument as the East is from the West. 
Freedom of speech! where is it found? In our large cities where men have barely escaped with their lives for declaring lawfully their opinions? Is it found at the South or at the North? 
The truth is we are prating about what we have not. 
Wednesday October 4, 1837. This world is full of the pain and sorrow brought on by sin. We are all groaning under its iron bondage and hoping for deliverance; but alas how often do we look to every source of relief but the right one. From whence can come joy but from heaven? Who can heal our sorrows but the Great Physician? 

Thursday October 5, 1837. I seem to myself to be one of the most unhappy beings in the world. I am not content, but tossed about like the troubled ocean. Some cause I surely have for anxiety and distress, and who has not? but whether more than others I know not. One thing is almost certain, it seems to me, that I shall always be an eminently unhappy man. 
Friday October 6, 183 7. What a strange affair is the Animal Magnetism which is now agitating the people. I have lately read Col. Stone's letter on the subject and must confess that the facts therein related are truly astonishing. 
What can we say about this subject? Is it an imposture? If so, to account for the tricks would be as difficult as to account for the facts, supposing all that is told about the subject be true. 
Saturday Ocotber 7, 1837. I must say that I am at a loss what to think: the 
possibility of collusion seems to be precluded by the various expedients 
that have been taken to test this wonderful art. Nevertheless I doubt and 
perhaps ever shall until evidence is as clear as a sunbeam. 
Sunday October 8, 1837. Elder Peck is a man of eighty years and over, and yet he preached for us today with very considerable force and interest. That man is salt of the earth, havingá preached about sixty years and 
become the father of many neighboring churches.á 
What a notable example of what piety and perseverance can do even without learning. One thing nevertheless must not be wanting or any minister, learned or unlearned, cannot succeed, that is Common Sense. Elder P. I think is blessed with a good stock of this needful talent which has, in want of any other, directed him successfully in all his dealings with men and churches. 
Monday October 9, 1837 My friend Eaton has had one of the most singular cases of paralysif that [I can] remember to have heard of. 
Last Sabbath (yesterday) while preaching in Albany it commenced to affect the left side of his face and by night the muscles had become immovable so that he cannot shut one eye or one corner of his mouth. By the advice of the physician he has applied a blister to his neck in hopes of removing this troublesome and dangerous disease. 
Tuesday October 10, 1837. The Synod of Albany (Presbyterian) commenced its session tonight. It was opened by a sermon from Dr. Snodgrass, who undoubtedly made one of his greatest efforts although could not but think his preaching exceedingly dry and uninteresting. 

The subject of his sermon was to show that in after time the kindness and favor shown to us by God will be a subject of contemplation by beings in other worlds and that they will derive great pleasure from such an exhibition of God's love. There was surely no want of novelty in the subject, but the manner, or rather matter, of the sermon was too abstract and metaphysical. 
It appears to me that learned preaching is getting to be different from what it once was, that is, preaching that was at once simple and powerful; modern sermon-making consists in formal divisions made according to the schools and dry, metaphysical truths announced in language more fit to be understood by a Doctor of Divinity than by a common unlettered man. 
Wednesday October 11, 1837. The Presbyterian meeting has been uncommonly harmonious; not so much as the slightest jar has been felt amongst the delegates. This is the way Christians should meet to deliberate for the advancement of Christianity and not to bicker and quarrel about . nice points and unimportant differences of opinion. 
The Synod closed this evening. Dr. Nott's influence has been very happily exerted during its session in keeping out all matters which might naturally lead into a dispute on the measures of the late General Assembly. 
Thursday October 12, 1837. There is a point in a man's life when it is his duty to marry. I mean when he has settled upon his profession, obtained it and is about or has entered into business for himself. A young unmarried [man] will generally be unstable in his ways, fluctuating in all his designs, for the simple reason that, seeing nothing to detain him in any particular calling or situation and loving change, he resolves that he can do better. He therefore tries this and that and goes to and fro in the world, like the rolling stone that gathers no moss. 
Youth with all their buoyancy and hope are like ships without ballast. A wife and family to such seem to me to be like a burthen to keep them steady. My experience corroborates the above sentiment. My mind is unstable ... 
Friday October 13, 1837 ... and fluctuating--full of projects and new designs, impetuous and impatient. Woman softens the savageness of man's nature and tames him down into a sociable being. 
Saturday October 14, 1837. Marriage may be hastily entered into, in which case evil consequences follow, or it may be too long deferred and be attended at least by evils. Man and Woman should both enter into this relation before their characters are so firmly fixed that they cannot be mutually fitted to each other. 

A man who lives a bachelor till thirty years of age and has not mingled much in female society cannot ordinarily profit by marriage. The same may be said of the other sex though not in the same degree. As it regards myself, these are my sentiments: either marriage must make a great change in my disposition, or I shall never live pleasantly in that relation. 
Sunday October 15, 1837. I tremble when I think of connecting another's happiness with my own, in consideration of my waywardness and many faults, and I fully believe if there is anything that should ever deter me from marriage it is the imperfections of my character. 
When I look upon the unbounded selfishness that manifests itself in the conduct of many husbands towards their wives, and then reflect that I am no better than other men, a question cannot but arise in my own mind whether it is my duty to endanger the happiness of another for the probability of my own gratification. 
Monday October 16, 1837. What is the effect of our Education Societies on the ministry, good or bad? I am of the opinion that the effect is bad, for this reason, that they encourage young men of very small talents and little good sense to adopt a profession for which in my own estimation God never made them. 
They call old men from their farms and workshops merely because they are pious and place them in our schools for the acquirement of an education which they ought to have obtained before their habits and ways of thinking had become fixed. 
Tuesday October 17, 1837. My experience teaches me that on the whole our Divinity Students are inferior in talents to our Law Students and in that manly independence of thought and action which is every man's right and privilege. 
Wednesday October 18, 1837. Contentment is a blessed virtue which, although possessed by only few of the human race, is nevertheless deservedly spoken well of by all. Contentment is sure and permanent riches for the man who is the possessor thereof. Whether he have much or little of what is usually termed wealth, [he] feels that he has enough for all his wants and more than many of the world about him. 
Thursday October 19, 1837. One may be comforted in his situation by contrasting his own lot with that of many who are worse off in regard to 

the necessaries or comforts of life than himself. The reply of a sailor who broke his leg by a fall from the mast shows that he had this Christian virtue. "It is a great mercy," says he, "that it was not my neck." 
Whenever repinings enter our hearts, if we but look upon the miserable below us, I am sure that with a right spirit, we shall bless God for not making our lot more unhappy than it really is. 
Friday October 20, 1837. The Proverbs of Solomon are a pure fountain of instruction. They are the evidence of that Divine Wisdom which God gave him as the choicest gift of Heaven. What man who guides his footstep thereby will not be led aright? What system of morals among all the ancient Ethical Philosophers will he choose before this? 
For simplicity and beauty too they can not be equalled, as well as for their purity. I would advise every youth to make them the main[ [source?] of his counsel and his constant study. 
Saturday October 21, 1837. I fear that I am not in the right place for the exertion of my talents, not that it is not sufficiently favorable, but that my bent of mind is not such as to lead me on to that elevation in my profession that one ought to attain. 
I tremble when I think of my incapacity to fill so important an office as that of a teacher of you th. I am too indolent. My inclinations lead me to some other employment, more mechanical. I ought to have been a mechanic -a machinist or engineer, as such employments have ever been my delight and study. 
Sunday October 22, 1837. On two accounts I staid away from church; one because I wished to find who of the students of my section remained at home, and the other because I do not like to hear our preacher so mangle the Bible and our language. 
Pious man he undoubtedly is but that he is wanting in good common sense is too apparent. Our congregation under his preaching is dwindling down into a little handful of casual hearers who, I fear, never come a second time nor are benefited by the first. 
Monday October 23, 1837. Mr. G[illett], such a preacher and expositor as this: Speaking of Paul's Sermon at Athens he said: "Athens is a city of Asia!" and that when he came into this seat of learning and colleges! he found it given up to idolatry. So being brought before the Areoapagus! which was an officer like our judge!! he preached so forcibly [that] the incumbent of that office, Dionysius, was converted! Here is a specimen of his knowledge of the Scriptures and the history connected therewith. 

could put up with his bad pronunciation and bad grammar, but when a man pretends to be a teacher of the Holy Word he ought to give a correct exposition thereof if it be not learned and critical. No man ought to preach the gospel who has not some considerable knowledge of the Scriptures. 
Tuesday October 24, 1837. I am more of the opinion now than ever before that a particular and exclusive education will make a man narrow-minded. To illustrate my meaning: I know a man who has received little or no knowledge except what pertains to Mathematics, and he can conceive of no pleasure to be derived from any other. 
I suppose there are hundreds on the contrary who never yet saw any pleasure or profit in the Mathematics, but can pore over Virgil or Plato or a novel with increasing delight. A scientific Botanist goes into spasms over a new or rare plant, conceiving such a discovery perhaps of more importance than the Mariner's Compass. 
Wednesday October 25, 1837. But it will be of no use to multiply examples to prove this point or to complain that it is so, since it is quite natural and perhaps after all of no great detriment. 
AMinister of the Gospel judges of a man's weight of character by his piety, and of his fellow preachers by their learning. A Student weighs a man in the balance of learning and talent and considers all as fool who do not come up to a certain standard fixed according to his own attainments, high or low. 
Thursday October 26, 1837. One of the greatest objections to schools of Divinity is that they make mere machines of our theologians in very many cases, probably in a majority. This I think may be accounted for in this way, that the Profs. do not sufficiently insist upon a man's thinking for himself on contested points. 
Friday October 27, 1837. They are wedded to their own opinions and why should they not trust [teach?] others their [own] doctrines? They make sermons so and so; their fathers did thus and why should their pupils not follow in their footsteps? 
I may be wrong but I do think that very much of what is obtained at our Theological Seminaries is exceedingly detrimental to a minister's usefulness, among ... 
Saturday October 28 1837 .... other things, that dry, metaphysical, prosing kind of preaching that will put a man to sleep instead of awaking his conscience. Nevertheless, I would not say that such schools should not exist because a few evils grow out of them. On the contrary we should patronize them the better and strive to eradicate what is objectionable. 

Sunday October 29, 1837. The Sabbath is getting to be desecrated to an astonishing degree by our railroads, steamboats and other public conveyances. And the minds of the people seem to changing on this subject so that those who would once look upon such things with abhorrence now regard them as a kind of necessary evil... 
Monday October 30, 1837 .... which is beyond their power to remedy. Great corporations, I know, have neither souls or consciences in matters regarding either human or divine rights, yet at the same time I cannot see why they should be less amenable to law or why men in corporate capaci.ties should do what they would be despised for doing as individuals. 

Tuesday October 31, 1837. It is my deliberate opinion that the stockhold.ers in some of our railroads and steamboats will have a fearful account to render for the Sabbaths broken by those in this employ and the temptations set before travelers to do the same. 
How can a reform be made? Pious and virtuous men must unite against the practice. 
Wednesday November 1, 1837. Politics is the chief talk. Electioneering and caucusing, the chief business. 
The two parties are the Whigs and Democrats. The former, opposed to Martin Van Buren's administration; the latter in favor of it. The situation of the President is one of extreme embarrassment and doubt, arising as.much from his own imprudence as from the unprecedented distress into which the country has been to a great degree plunged by his predecessor's foolish experiments on the currency. In pledging himself to carry out . Thursday the measures of Gen'l Jackson and ... 
Thursday November 2, 1837 .... "walk in the footsteps of his illus-predeces.sor," he committed an error which has caused us grievously to suffer, and will undoubtedly bring down the disapprobation of the people upon him.self and his measures. What experiment of the former administration in regard to the currency has succeeded? What then does Van Buren still hope from such miserable and visionary schemes? 
His first leading measure, the Sub-Treasury system by which the funds of the country will be lodged in his own hands, will fail. 
Friday November 3, 1837. The people already disapprove of it, and their further disapprobation will beá manifested at the ballot boxes. *Loco.Focoism, which Van Buren evidently favors by his last message and the tendency of his measures and the choice of his friends and advisers, can never be popular:-_ 
*The "Loco-Foco" party was a set of unprincipled men that came off from the Democratic party more than a year since, and contains the vilest and most discontented spirits of the city of New York where it first originated. The name is derived from this circumstance. At a meeting of the Democrats more than a year since in Tammany Hall, some disaffected men, not liking the proceedings of the majority, remained after the meeting had closed, relighted the maps with loco-foco matches and reorganized the meeting. Their name was derived from the matches which they used. Their principles are agrarian mingled in a good degree with English Radicalism and Tammany Hall infidelity. They inveigh against banks and would have no currency but gold and silver.They curse the merchants and men of Capital and brand them as aristocrats. In fact, they are a set of unprincipled fellows, the poor low rabble led on by demagogues. Their [number] has become so great in the city that they have swallowed up the Democrats, and all is lodged in one great Loco Foco Party. 

Saturday November 4, 1837. The people of this country, I hope, know their own interests better than to adopt such monstrous political doctrines and to be led by such vile men. One of the firiest and most active persons in this party is the notorious punk, Fanny Wright, who not only preaches in.fidelity and unrestrained licentiousness, but advocates publicly all the leading measures of the LocoFoco party. By some she is called the founder, and perhaps with truth. 
The cry of "Down with the Bank," seems to have passed from the vile mobs of New York throughout the Union. Every Van Buren newspaper prolongs the sound and every demagogue rides this hobby horse for office. It is astonishing to see the inconsistency of men. 
Those who have made their fortunes by banks and are now bank di.rectors and stockholders are among the foremost to decry these institu.tions, and for what? For effect. To pamper the vile passions and prejudices of the rabble. More anon. 
Sunday November 5, 183 7. It strikes me as very probable that thousands will preach politics today instead of listening to the gospel. 
How much harder will they strive to make their election sure to some petty office, than to be chosen among the sons of God! Will man never see beyond the present good? will he never never understand nor learn knowledge? 
How beastly! how carnal! How devilish are our desires and pursuits! 
Monday November 6, 1837. It has always been a mooted question whether students have a legal right to vote in the city. By the party against whom a majority of them vote, it has been denied; by the other, it has been af.firmed and thus the thing has stood for years. The excitement is now too great for any man to stay from the polls who has a shade of right to vote; therefore all students of lawful age will vote. 
Tuesday November 7, 183 7. The Whigs will undoubtedly carry the city of New York and in fact all the large towns by great majorities, but their suc.cess in country places is quite doubtful. Farmers have not felt the weight of all the blunders of Government men; they have not all the means of learning the corruption of men in power that citizens of cities have and fi.nally they do not so clearly see the disadvantages of a disordered cur.rency. The Whigs will have a gain in the Assembly but I fear not a major.ity. 

Wednesday November 8, 1837. The Whigs are really beside themselves tonight, they are mad with joy. Every man on their ticket from the Senator to the Coroner has been elected by a handsome majority. In the city the Whig candidate received over a four hundred majority. The news from Albany and Troy is equally encouraging. If other counties have done as well as ours there is no doubt as to the politics of the next Assembly. Time must decide, however, what the people have done on the last three days. 
Thursday-Novemeber 9, 1837. The news from the neighboring counties is really astounding. Town after town and county after county, hitherto the unyielding supporters of Jackson and Van Buren, have faced right about and given an overwhelming majority for the other party. Herkimer is the only county that has as yet found on the side of Van Buren. It is now con.fidently expected that the Whigs will carry the whole Assembly, save twenty or thirty members, and six Senators out of eight. 
Friday November 10, 1837. I suppose there never was such a change in public opinion in so short a time since the general Government was orga.nized. 
Last Fall Van Buren's majority in the State was about twenty-eight thou.
sand. Now the State has gone.against him by an overwhelming majority. 
Saturday November 11, 1837. Heard Solomon Southwick lecture last evening at the room of the Young Men's Association. He tells us that he is a self.:.taught man, having at first been a sailor's boy and afterwards an ap.pren-tice to the baker's trade. 
His lectures are. replete with instruction and will prove, I have no doubt, an important acquisition to youth who have not the advantages of a tutor. 
However, I can not think them sufficently systematic. His digressions are often long and unsuitable and the arrangements of his subjects seem rather accidental, having but little or no connection or unity. For this they may be less elegant but to a promiscuous assemblage such as he addresses mav nevertheless be quite as instructive. 
Sunday November 12, 1837. When I consider with how little faithfulness I have served the Lord since the time when I first professed to love Him, 
and the great distance that I have wandered from His paths, it pains my heart and fills me with sorrow and repentance. 
What have I done that He should snatch me from eternal burning? What does He see in me that should recommend me to his favorable no.tice? 
I confess that I am a poor sinner, miserable, blind, and naked. 
Monday November 13, 1837. In days of primitive Christianity it is said that they had wooden chalices and golden priests but in after times the order became reversed, that is, they had golden chalices and wooden priests! Too true! and I fear the same may be said with some degree of assurance of our own times. 
Tuesday November 14, 1837. Le Bas in his "Life of Wyclif' says of the Waldenses: "Neither is it to be disguised that there still may be a doubt whether their protest carries with it the full weight and authority which belongs to a legitimate branch of the Church invested with the sanctity of apostolic succession." 
In another place he says: "There is a vagueness and laxness about these expressions which leaves a shade of doubt still hanging over the suc.cession and perpetuation of the Sacred order among them and renders somewhat questionable their claim to the character of an Episcopal Church." 
Yea doubtless. I think it quite likely the Waldenses were not Episcopalians, much less Catholics. But does Mr. Le Bas think them any the less entitled to be called a "legitimate branch of the church," because they did not derive their ministry by succession from the Apostles? 
Wednesday November 15, 1837. Ours is not so much a country of words as of things and acts, not of theory but of demonstration and experiment . 
Thursday November 16, 1837. What do you think of Coelibs? a kind of re.ligious novel written by Mrs. Hannah More? It really contains much that is excellent in morals, religion and social and domestic life. A rich vein of in.struction runs through the whole which cannot fail to be productive of good on the minds of the young, especially as sober truth is so mixed in with the incidents and drift of the story that those who would not imbibe those important sentiments from any other book or by any other style of writing, are here made to drink at the fountain of virtue and religion from matter of choice. 
The book, however, is open .. . 
Wednesday November 17, 1837 .... to criticism, as the author herself says in 

her preface. I think it is too dull as a story and if possible too much bur.thened with doctrines of religion and ethics. Of this she seems to have been aware when she says, "If it be objected that religious characters have been too industriously brought forward and their faults somewhat too severely treated let it be remembered" etc. 
Could not the same be said of this as of many other novels, that the characters are overwrought? Lucilla is an angel. Such a woman perhaps never lived nor ever will. But what if this be so? Does any harm proceed from thence? 
Saturday November 18, 1837. Certainly no more nor no less than from any other overwrought character. Nevertheless it can not fail to occur to any 
á mind that if a man--a young man full of love and sentiment--thinks upon reading this book to find a Lucilla in this world, he will be most unfortu.nately mistaken, and his mistake and disappointed hopes may cause that degree of unhappiness which he would never have experienced with a woman of less perfection of character and less exalted expectations. After all, it is a good book. 
Sunday November 19, 1837, Hannah More says thus: "It is true Omnipotence can when he pleases still produce these instantaneous effects as he has sometimes done, but as it is not his established or common mode of operation, it seems vain and rash presumptuously to wait for these miraculous interferences." 
What does this mean? To me it looks to me like a cut at what we call conversions. Now I have learned to think (whether right or wrong I will not positively say) that men in passing from sin unto Godliness can gen.erally tell the time when their burthen of sin fell from their shoulders, not perhaps the precise moment, but the day or week. Whether this be the "established" character of the conversions in the Established Church, I know not, but surely this is the case with our own. What do we learn from the Bible concerning this subject? That men were regenerated in a day--yea sometimes in a moment. 
I do not call for any "miraculous interferences," unless the aid of the Holy Spirit be called a miraculous interference; nor for visions, but for a true sorrow for sin, a hearty repentance which, when this be the case, the burthened sinner will look to Christ and be relieved. 
John Bunyan paints a good picture of the Sinner's Conversion which it would be well for all to read who disbelieve the truth of sudden conver.sion. 
Monday November 20, 1837. Now I do not contend that a man is convicted of sin and converted in an instant. By no means. There belong pain and 
rso 
throes to the new birth as well as to the natural, which must precede a 
happy and complete delivery. 
"Thou must be born again," says our Savior, a figure which more happily conveys to the mind all the pains and sorrows of regeneration and its glorious freedom from the domain from sin than any other. 
Tuesday November 21, 1837. "Intoxication affords no just reason against the use of wine"--Hannah More. 
Teetotal Societies were a little too late in the day for our author. 
How strangely are the opinions of men changed and varied with the times and countries in which we live. 
Had Mrs. More lived to see the present brilliant success of the Temperance Reformation and then had occasion to speak of the drinking of wine, very possibly she would have uttered quite a different sentiment. 
Wednesday November 22, 1837. Is licentiousness a less sin in man than in woman? I suppose not in the sight of God. Yet man sees with different eyes. The one whores by public consent and is not the less thought of; the other sins and is consigned to everlasting disgrace which a life of repen.tance can hardly efface. 
We have a name for a woman who never knew a man--we call her a virgin--but none for a pure man, for the best of reasons that there are so few the want of a name is not felt. 
Thursday November 23, 1837. Iverny's Life of Milton is a book of consid.erable interest. á I never before reading it knew so fully the opinions of that great man on the subject of government both civil and religious. 
He was as pure a Republican as ever breathed, and perhaps con~ tributed as much by his pen to establish the Commonwealth as any other man. I am satisfied that Milton's name was only snatched from execration, so long as kingly governments exist, by that immortal poem of his, the Paradise Lost. 
What biographer has done him justice for his sentiments? What sycophant of a King has not vilified his name? 
Did Johnson show a magnanimous spirit towards the man whom he could never equal? By no means. The Great Poet had faults, but on the subject of government they were few. He erred in the minds of his coun.trymen because he attacked the Divine Right of kings and the _Established Church. 
Friday November 24, 1837. Examination of Freshman Class commenced to.day. We begin earlier than usual that all may get home before 

Thanksgiving Day. 
Saturday November 25, 1837. I had almost forgotten to mention some changes which will be effected in our Faculty. Mr. Reed leaves at the end of this term and John Foster and James Nichols, both classmates of mine, will come as Tutors. Nichols was in town some weeks since and returned to New England with Eaton and my sister. 
Poor Eaton, by the way, has had a very troublesome attack of the paralysis in his face, by which his mouth became askew and the power of shutting one eyelid was lost, but what seems to be more appalling than all there is some danger of a recurrence and to a greater degree. 
What a combination of ills the poor fellow is subject to, in many in.stances too from his own imprudence. 
Sunday November 26, 1837. I don't know but what I have said before what I am now going to write. If so I will reiterate it: that many ministers and Christians preach up persecution too much. 
"We must expect persecution, brethren, from the World," say they. "Christ and his apostles thus suffered for truth's sake and must we hope or expect anything better?" 
This I say is mere fudge--affectation. If they behave themselves, Christians are as much respected (yea, more) as any other class in the community. 
There have been times and places when this was not true but in our own country we may glory not in persecution but in freedom of speech, worship and thought. 
Monday November 27, 1837. Can it be that Giovanni Boccaccio's writings are a picture of the state of morals in Italy? 
The writings of travelers indeed seem to confirm the melancholy fact, and I am inclined to think his descriptions in the main are true. Chastity is a virtue little known and less practised. 
Infidelity to the marriage bed is only a crime when the unhappy sin.ner is found out: What can be expected of the morals of a people who sanction the abominable "Cavaliere Servante" system? 
Tuesday November 28, 1837. One of the greatest acts of modern times in regard to knowledge is its general diffusion among the people. Formerly the few only were learned, now the multitude in some degree. 
Wednesday November 29, 1837. Milton is called, and with truth, the great Republican of England. More noble, more patriotic sentiments were never uttered by any man; a more effectual aid to the march of religious and civil freedom has hardly been found in the life and acts of any one man than has been found in his writings. 

Thursday November 30, 1837. Who ever sees his prose works on our shelves, beside his immortal poem? Are they not worthy of succh close proximity? I have never till within these few days seen so much as a line of Milton's prose works and if I had ever heard that the great poet de.scended to the cold regions of prose I had supposed that he had been a mere proser of unworthy notice. 
Friday December 1, 1837. And I see not why [in] College both others and myself had not good reason to be so minded inasmuch as we have no means of coming to the truth. It is a fact too apparent that Milton's prose works are too republican to be popular either in a monarchy or in an Episcopal Church. Therefore they probably are not sufficiently valued in England and of consequence here, for we in a measure fashion our tastes after those of the English ... 

Saturday December 22, 1837 .... especially in the matter of books and au~ thors. As Republicans we ought to read faithfully our inimitable authors; and as opponents to Episcopacy we should carefully study him. 
Sunday December 3, 1837. Thomas Fuller speaks after this manner: To err is man, to repent of our errors is angelic, to boast of our errors is devilish. 
Monday December 4, 183 7. It is a pity to find so many poets and men of genius indulging in skepticism and unworthy complaints and misanthropic feelings as though these were the only marks of their differing from the common people that they launched forth into the sea of unlicensed thought and infidel writing. It is so a la Byron that our young poetasters are as much charmed with morbid sensibility and whining as with his bare neck and rolling shirt collar. 
Tuesday December 5, 183 7. Percival was a man of the real or pretended spirit of Byron insomuch as this repining spirit is concerned and shows a lamentable skepticism in several passages. He really seems to think that providence had taken especial care to afflict him, of which he is very proud to speak on many occasions in a spirit of boasting and defiance. 
I learn that his writings have improved latterly on this point and it is to be hoped that his very respectable talents will not be lost so unworthily as his early years gave occasion to be feared. 

Wednesday December 6, 1837. I have thought often of making a catalogue of books on particular subjects. I fancy such a book would be one of pecu.liar benefit and pleasure to the student, --yes, in fact to any man. Dr. Young has performed such a work as this but confined it, I think, chiefly to scientific subjects. 
Thursday December 7, 1837. A great General Index to all books worthy of note would be another invaluable aid to the student in his researches after knowledge. This work might either supersede the o~e spoken of yesterday or be an accompaniment to it, being of course much more voluminous. 
Friday December 8, 1837. I wish we Americans had more of the French or German politeness and less of the English boorishness and American roughness of character and manners. 
Scarcely any thing can atone for the want of a cultivated mind in a gentleman so much as a polished manner, a kindness and attention to oth.ers, and a fitting solicitude for their comfort and pleasure. 
I must confess that many a dunce has inspired me with respect merely from his habitual gentlemanly behaviour, --yea, and I... 
Saturday December 9, 1837 .... have keenly felt my inferiority to men in this respect to whom otherwise I was greatly their superior. 
Our Colleges, which are mere monasteries, are peculiarly unfavorable for the cultivation of good manners. In such situations youth get boorish and associate so little in female society that nothing is a greater task when they are obliged to do so after their graduation. 
Sunday December 10, 1837. My friend Dr. Lehmus tells me that the pre.sent Baptists of Germany, the descendants of the Ana Baptists are a simple honest, industrious people confined almost exclusively to agriculture, hav.ing none of the extravagant notions of ancient times. 
Monday December 11, 1837. There are two classes of preachers among us at the present, viz. those who have much zeal and little learning and those who have considerable learning and little zeal. Their hearers take sides ac.cording to their tastes and feeling with the one class or the other ... 
Tuesday December 12, 1837 .... and affect a mutual dislike for each other. It might be interesting to know how this difference came about. I must confess my inability to account for it although I suspect the chief difficulty to lie in the practice of reading sermons to congregations which originated, if I mistake not, a few hundred years since arnong ... 

Wednesday December 13, 1837 .... certain dissenters in England who had been accused of preaching heresy to clear themselves. They adopted this practice that every word might be established. This if true was certainly very necessary and proper for the time, but that it should now be contin.ued when the occasion is past I very much doubt. 
Thursday December 14, 1837. Friend Nichols who is as intimate in Dr. Wood's family as one of his own children tells me that the Dr. attributes the dry preaching of New England ministers to the modern theological schools. Whereas formerly young men studied with clergymen of acknowl.edged piety and talent, participating in their pastoral labors and imbibing their deep-toned piety. 
Friday December 15, 1837. Young theologians then visited the families of the parish and assisted in the conference and prayer meetings and by im.perceptible degrees acquired the practical part of the holy profession. 
Saturday December 16, 1837. It is not thus with students of the Seminaries. From some cause, their piety is not so deep-toned, their per.formances are stiff and formal and they know but little of the duties as parish clergyman. 
Sunday December 17, 1837. I must mention another cause for the dimin.ished power of the ministry, that is, the .Education Societies which now as.sist the young through their studies into the pulpit. The evils of this sys.tem of benevolence are the encouraging young men to enter the ministry who have little talent and the lessening their independence of mind and action. 
It is a matter of remark at this College by the Professors that the students who aim at the Law are more talented [than] those of the Ministry and it is accounted for on the principle that I have just given. 
Monday December 18, 1837. We now have war at the two extremes of the Union, in Florida-and in Canada. The murderous warfare which we wage against the Seminoles I must think disgraceful to the nation in the ex.treme. It has cost millions of money and hundreds of lives already and then no more prospect of subduing the wily savages than at first. I can not find it in my heart to despise them, for they are contending for their na.tive land. 
Tuesday December 19, 1837. Prof. Reed told me an amusing story of the late "Jerry Reed, " who received the tickets from passengers on the Mohawk & Hudson Railroad. Jerry was deaf but, it is said, could hear 2p on a glass of grog as soon as anybody. 

Being an honest fellow he was often trusted with large sums of money to carry to individuals, and in return received some considerable remuneration. 
One day last winter he delivered a thousand dollars to a gentleman who happened to be at breakfast. "Jerry" knew from some unequivocal signs that his gentleman was no cold-water-drinker, and determined to quench his thirst at the expense of the other .. 
"Well, Jerry, "said the gentleman, "are the roads bad?" "I thank you," said Jerry, "I had just as lief have a glass of gin and sugar." 
Wednesday December 20, 1837. What miserable "doughfaces" have we at the North; we are slaves, more abject than the blacks at the South. I am surprised at the measures that are carried in Congress by Southern inter.est with our members. When they wish to intimidate they do it by agitat-á ing a disunion of the States if their views are are not adopted, [and] for peace's sake and the sake of the country Northerners give away and act contrary to their better judgement. 
Thursday December 21, 1837. What will remove prejudice? Will argu.ment? Nay, nor truth presented in the most alluring form. Prejudice will still keep her slaves bound in her strong chains. One may quite as soon at.tempt to remove mountains. 
Friday December 22, 1837. The German Conversations Lexicon is now called in our country the Encyclopedia Americana, but with what propriety I do" not know. Lieber gave it a name from its furnishing topics for conver.sation. (February 19, 1840. Leiber was not the author; only [the] translator.) 
Saturday December 23, 1837. Prof. Silliman of Yale College has the reputa.tion of being a great chemist and so he may be, so far as a knowledge of facts go, but I cannot see any marks of genius on any production of his, either scientific or literary. His Chemistry--his principal work--is certainly a very bungling affair, wholly unworthy of a man of his reputation and containing so far as I can learn not a single important discovery. 
Hove's single invention of the Oxy-Hydrogen blowpipe is worth more than all the Prof[essor's]contributions to science. 
Sunday December 24, 1837. Why do we always go to church to criticize-.not to learn? I am ashamed of myself and heartily disgusted with others when I calmly reflect upon our Sabbath occupation after church, which is no less than sitting as censors in judgement upon what we have heard and weighing this sentence and that, this figure and that to see whether something be not wanting or there be not too much to make perfect lan.guage. Why do we not think more of the idea and less of ... 

Monday December 25, 1837 .... the dress? or why do we presume to arraign all men to the Bar of our own tastes? I pray that I may learn wisdom by the past and not despise the meanest things inasmuch as God has ... 
Tuesday December 26, 1837 .... made use and continues to make use of the weakest things of this world to confound the wise and accomplish his more glorious schemes. And I often wonder and am led to admire His wisdom in thus humbling man and exalting Himself. 
Wednesday December 27, 1837. It is now more than six years since I left New England. In this time those prejudices peculiar to a Yankee have been eradicated from my mind. I can now say with a good deal of confidence that the New England people are bigoted and illiberal. 
Thursday December 28, 1837. Chemistry and Conic Sections are my studies this term; of the two the former demands most of my attention and labor. Yet the labor of the Chemist is beguiled by the absorbing interest of the science. 
Friday, December 29, 1837. The rebellion in Canada, which commenced in the fall, seems to have been an ill-coneiived, unadvised plot. The "Patriots" have as yet gained nothing, but on the contrary lost every thing. If this re.bellion fails, as it surely will, the British domination will be more fully es.tablished. 
Saturday, December 30, 1837. To teach a science by lectures in our schools and colleges in preference to textbook and recitations, I doubt not is a great error. 
Sunday December 31, 1837. I was meditating the other day on my Christian life and spiritual growth and came to the conclusion that I was a mere babe in Christ. It is a fact that I cannot deny, that there are many poor illiterate apprentices who have set out later in the Christian life and have more rapid advancement than myself, having every privilege that I could desire. 
