
Monday January 1, 1838. The reason is obvious. Can a man be a coward and at the same time a soldier? No more can one be a Christian except he be a whole-hearted fearless man. 

Tuesday January 2, 1838. Like Peter I have followed Christ afar off, have not done my duty and stayed away from meeting for fear of being obliged to take a part in the exercises. 
Wednesday January 3, 1838. The last reason that I assigned for my bar.renness is the chief cause of all the difficulties in my way. I don't know that there ever was a man who has such an utter dread of public speaking as myself. 
Thursday January 4, 1838. Whenever I have made the attempt, there has seemed to be a dearth of thought with me. My mind is at such times locked up, wanting all vivacity and life. Oh what misery such a state will some.times bring upon a man. I sometimes feel that God has put this total inca.pacity for speaking upon me to humble me. 
Friday January 5, 1838. But, be it as it may, during the many years in which I have endeavored to serve God, I do not recollect of ever having prayed in public with any degree of pleasure or freedom. Now I do not know ... 
Saturday January 6, 1838 .... with what feelings others can pray in assem.blies, but if they do as I have done I fear there is but little faith mingled with their petitions. Of this I am convinced, that young Christians ought to be brought out more in our social meetings. Everyone should expect to do his part, every talent should be ... 
Sunday January 7, 1838. ...exhibited, and then we se Lord and not timid, fainting and ready-to-halt professors. 
Monday January 8, 1838. Another term has commenced. My duties are, to teach a division in Conic Sections and between fifty and sixty young men in Chemistry, a study which I never before studied. I do feel as though ... 
Tuesday January 9, 1838 ....1 was attempting a thing beyond my capacity when I pretend to instruct in this latter science, but inasmuch as the pow.ers that be so ordain I must acquiesce and do my best to perform my duty with acceptance. 
Wednesday January 10, 1838. Another year has been ushered in, and be.holds me in health and prosperity. The months are crowned with goodness to me, and my cup runs over with fullness of blessings. Surely the Lord ... 

Thursday January 11, 1838 .... has been with me and I have felt it not. He has been with me in every place yet by my life I have shown that I had no abiding sense of his presence. May the Lord forgive my past ingratitude. 
Friday January 12, 1838. When will war cease on our borders? The Canadian Patriots are struggling for disenthrallment from British power, and the noble Seminoles are fighting for their miserable dwelling places among the everglades of Florida. 
Saturday January 13, 1838. It does seem as though God frowned upon our intentions in regard to these poor savages. We send regiment after regi.ment to dislodge them and yet accomplish nothing. We break our engage.ments with them, we violate the flag of truce, and by all these mean arti.fices gain no permanent advantage. 
Sunday January 14, 1838. A Godly man's life is like a pure stream unruf.
fled by the storms of passion and uncontaminated by the filth with which 
it comes in contact. 
(February 14, 1840.What I wrote on the other page is all nonsense. 
Canadian patriots! Canadians want no such freedom as ours. If 
they desire change or reform,it must not come from our borders.) 
Monday January 15, 1838. Dean Swift is a witty and powerful writer. I like to read his books for the plainness,, simplicity, and purity of his style. He has no figures and but few words which are not of Saxon origin. Try him: see if you do not like him. 
Tuesday January 16, 1838. I believe áthe Devil is let loose in College. I never saw the time he had not much to do here. Here is card-playing, whoring, drinking, swearing, gambling, and I know not what other vices. This is among a set few; the great mass of students, I believe, are guiltless of these sins. 
Wednesday January 17, 1838. Don't like the management of College con.cerns. Dr. N. is President, Treasurer, Directors, Trustees, and all. He makes Tutors, Professors, and other Officers. He pays salaries, and fixes them. In fine he is Union College or rather U.C. is his, his private concern altogether. Nobody else has anything to do except as he directs, merely as his agents. 
[Added, in pencil: Things should not be so.} 
Thursday, January 18, 1838. The Pres[ident] has done much for the College yet I cannot say that, in view of all his merit I exactly like many traits of his character. He is noncommital, non-promising and non-everything, posi.tively nothing. 

I mean by this that you can get no hold upon him. If you talk about what he does not wish to grant, he is never open and frank to give his negative ... 
Friday January 19, 1838 .... but "talks off' and tries to accornplish by stratagem what might be better done by plain-dealing. The Dr. has done so much by manoevering that now everybody suspects him, and respects his character but little. 
Saturday January 20, 1838. We learn by last evening's reading-.
Whaleship Narraganset from the Rocky mountains and the Northwest 
Territory --hat Miss ______ lost a very valuable--heart ,susceptible of the 
most tender emotions --Wanted a young gentleman. 
Sunday January 21, 1838. God has repeated his tokens of mercy and favor so often towards me that I tremble under the debt of gratitude due Him. Oh! will He always smile upon me or not? This question comes over the cherished hopes of my heart like a cloud over. the face of the sun, darken.ing every bright scene of beauty around me. 
My disobedience and unthankfulness fill my mind with fear lest He should change all my blessings into cursings and chasten with his Rod. Oh I have been too much prospered; it has made me forgetful of God. 
[Typist's note: Page numbers are in pencil for the rest of vol.ume, and does not look like JP's writing.]??? {Editor; Check ms.] 
Monday January 22, 1838. Why do redhaired men make the best soldiers? Why do dragoons always have the speediest *****? Why is the Wine-bib.ber like a grey Plover? 
Tuesday January-Z3, 1838. Fidena = For dinner. Flora= Floor her. Floralia = Floor all here. Fruslno = Far as I know. Fusius = Few see us. Halyegae = He'll lick ye. Halys = He lyes. Harmatris =Herma tries. Helixus = He licks us. Hesaenus = "He seen us." (vulgar) Icetas = I see 'tis. Idothea = I do thee (see) her. Inoa= I know her. Midea = My dear. 
Wednesday January 24, 1838. After boyhood or girlhood we made no new friends. And indeed we do well if we retain the few we then have. 
Thursday January 25, 1938. Somebody has given a very ingenious account 

of the origin of kissing the bride at weddings. He says women were not al.lowed wine by the Greeks because such a stimulus in a weak body would cause them to do improper acts. Hence the custom of saluting them fre.quently to detect any infringement upon this custom, and especially at the marriage of a girl. 
Friday January 26, 1838. What is our education of the young? We educate the moral powers, teaching them to shun vice in every form, not to injure our neighbors and to love God and serve him. 
We cultivate the intellect, teaching them Languages, Math. and Philosophy, and I very much doubt whether in any part of the world more is learnt in the same time than our youth learn. Here education ceases. We never teach to train the body to keep it clean and healthy by exercise nor do we cultivate the feelings. How much do we need that delicacy of feeling and tenderness which makes us always shun the appearance of giving pain.to others, which bridles our tongue from blunder, which gives us a liberal judgement and charity for others' feelings. 
Saturday January 27, 1838. Oh my soul! how often have I in the narrow.ness of my mind misjudged of actions and hastily said things that have given pain. How often has my tongue spoken ill of my neighbor! 
True nobleness of mind and soul is above all price: it is next religion in the heart, it is above intellect in my estimation; it gives that comfort and happiness which the other cannot. 
Sunday January 28, 1838. I think the Baptists a very inefficient body con.sidering their numbers. Four million three hundred thousand is their nu.merical strength in these States --greater by far than any other sect. I do not charge them with doing nothing, only that their mode of government as I conceive is a weak one--too loose, too democratic, too little sound dis.cipline. I dislike the spirit of the Presbyterian Church yet must say that is a powerful body, well organized, intelligent and effective. 
I fear that the Episcopal Church has too much form and too little grace, embracing fashionable,wealthy people whose religion in too many cases sits but loosely upon them. Does not somewhat of their piety consist in gentility, good order and breeding a decent respect for the church and her ceremonies and an assent to her doctrines? Judge ye, I may be mis.taken. 
Monday January 29, 1838. Daniel of London made a water barometer a few years since. Consisting of a glass tube forty feet long, one inch bore--in most respects the instrument resembled the com[mon] barometer. It was more sensitive. In high wind the water oscillated like the breathing of an animal. It attained its maximum or mininum points an hour sooner than 
the mer[cury] bar[ometer]. (see 1st Vol (1832) L& E Phil. Jour.) 
Tuesday January 30, 1838. A man's home should be in fact his sanctuary, not in name only. There are few such, Most commonly home is a bear gar.den, a field of strife for angry, conflicting minds where they quarrel with less fear of being heard by their neighbors than abroad. If open contests are not indulged in, still home may be made unpleasant by fretting and scolding or by whining, complaints, cross looks, scowling faces. Sometimes the business of the man is brought home and all his little crosses and vexations are let loose in his family to sour domestic felicity. He has ... 
Wednesday January 31, 1838 ... .lost a debt or a bargain, he has received an insult or has been over-reached All these are visited upon his family. He not only tells of his losses of money and honor but, what is more, frets and scolds as though he thought his unoffending family were the cause. 
The wife again burns her finger or her preserves, a pan of milk gets sour or the cow kicks over the pail, the hogs get at the cabbages or some equally unimportant accident occurs and she destroys the peace of the fireside for half a day by discoursing over it and fretting. 
Let home, I say, be a sanctuary indeed--happy, cheerful, free from every unnecessary annoyance. No spot then is more happy and more to be desired. 
Thursday February 1, 1838. Wm. I.add of Maine--a "peace man" of exceed.ing good sense and shrewdness, very entertaining in conversation, intelli.gent, devotes much of his time and income to the promotion of his favorite doctrine of no resistance. 
Full of anecdote: gave the following three specimens of Virginia hospitality. "Formerly I owned and freighted a ship in my voyages, often sailed into Norfolk and sometimes went ashore upon the coast of Virginia. On one of these ... 
Friday February 2, 1838 .... occasions I called at a little house. The owner came out. "How are you sir? Come walk in! Walk in, sir"! I went into his house and found my entertainment was to consist of hog, hominy, and whiskey. Passed the night, my host all the while exceedingly polite and hospitable. In the morning he very kindly offered to accompany me to my ship. On board I called my steward to put some London porter, crackers and cheese (Cheshire) upon the cabin table. We lunched. My host seemed particularly taken with the porter and cheese. 
Rising to leave, he kindly invited me to call again. I thanked him for his kindness. "Here! Here! Captain I.add, couldn't you spare me a little of 

that porter and cheese? My wife is main fond of them." "Oh yes, surely. Here, steward, put up a dozen of London porter and twelve pounds of cheese for Mr. _____ . Good morning sir" ! 
Saturday February 3, 1838. A second time I was deceived as follows by my host. As I was leaving his house he says, "Captain, you've been to England. Have'nt you some good sole leather on hand; ours ls poor stuff'? 0 yes yes! "Well, will you exchange fifty pounds with me? I'll give you an order on a tanner in Norfolk?" Certainly. So he sent his man down to the ship with the order and I weighed out the leather. Arrived at Norfolk I walked to the leather dealer and presented the order. He laughed. I asked the reason "Why," says he, "this is the greatest rascal in these parts. Nobody trusts him." 
Sunday February 4, 1838. Schenectady, compared [with] other places of its size, has a church-going community. Students do not as generally attend as they ought. The irreligious are a wicked set and the professors of rel[igion] are not much better. 
Monday February 5, 1838. The third specimen of Virginia hospitality which Mr. Ladd experienced was in war time. He entered the house but the man was in his fields; he looked around while a negro went after his mas.
ter and saw democratic papers, pictures of naval conflicts, blood, and car.nage. He knew his man. 
When he came in, his countenance and manner did not destroy the estimate of his character. "What you want of me?" I am going to Norfolk, sir, and wish to get a horse. "Well, you may go afoot, my horses are at work." How far ls it, sir? "Ten miles--get there before dark." Thank ye, said Mr. L, turning to go. Guess we shall beat them in this brush (alluding to the war). "Ah, do you think so? Come, sir, take a chair. You must be tired--time enough--dont hurry--here Samba, bring the gentleman some.thing to drink and eat--really then you think we shall lick the d--d British?" Yes, yes no doubt. "Well, it's some ways to Norfolk. You're tired.-here Pompey, go and saddle Jim and Dobbin and take this Gent to Norfolk." Good day, sir. 
Tuesday February 6, 1838. Mr. Ladd says of Garrison. "He's got away above. He has climbed up a ladder hand over hand until has attained a fa.vorable principle--then he has kicked the ladder down --and ls now bawling out to us below--"Come up here! come along up! Why dont you climb up!" --and now he's has planted another ladder and is climbing up he knows not Where. 

Wednesday February 7, 1838. He says also that the abolitionists are mis.taken. They are trying to split the log by presenting the head of the wedge--in so doing they split the beatle! 
Thursday February 8, 1838. Millet, wheat and Plantae [planted?] cereals in general germinate in two or three dTays. Lettuce, gourd, cress in from five to seven days. The corn, bean, French bean, the onion, in about twenty days. Parsley in forty days. The columbine,. the almond, chestnut, peony, filbert, cornel-tree in from six to eight months. Roses, after the first or sec.ond year. 
Friday February 9, 1838. A student's room is a museum of odd things and queer combination of things.He delights in disorder and dilapidated furni.
ture. 
Saturday February 10, 1838. A little learning is a dangerous thing. Pope. 
A little or superficial knowledge of Philosophy may incline the mind of man to Atheism. Bacon. 
Sunday February 11, 1838. _ 
{No entry follows this date, and the following 21 pages, numbered El through E21, are in pencil , and perhaps not in JP's handwriting; Editor, check ms.] 
[ in pencil] Saturday July 14, 1838. Prof. Airy says that he can fix upon but two origi.nal discoveries in Astronomy during the present century --the existence of a resisting medium by Encke and the practical prediction of the phases of double stars by Sir John Hersh. 
Sunday July 15, 1838. A young Brother Corwin from Hamilton preached in the forenoon and Brother Wait of Albany in the evening. 
"Godliness is profitable for all things both for the life that now is and that which ls to come." 
I am satisfied of this and know and can witness to the truth of the blessed announcement yet have to lament my practical disbelief. 
Monday July 16, 1838. Examination on studies of the past term commenced today at West College. Some students are "sustained" and other not. So will it be in the Great Day of Examination when a world will be tried before Christ the judge. Many will fail then. 

Tuesday July 17, 1838. What an old nuisance [is] Dr. Proudflt -as good.
natured and easy as the days are long. Strict discipline and order would 
soon go to nought under his administration. 
No one who knows him can deny that he would make a better plough-jog.
ger than either teacher or preacher. 
I'm too hard, though; he's a clever old gentleman. 
Wednesday July 18, 1838. That Smollett must have been a licentious dog if his works are any criterion, which by the by are not anything very enter-á taining to me. Fielding's works are doubtless much superior although of the same impure character. 
Thursday July 19,1838. I once tried to read Marryatt's Tom Chringle's Log but could not finish it in any way. How strange that the man who wrote Japhet should have put forth such contemptible trash. 
Friday July 20, 1838. He was here once at U.C. and [was] introduced to Dr. Nott who did not or pretended he did not know Capt. M. from Adam. The Dr. therefore addressed him as though he belonged to the Texan Navy. The naval author is said to be a swearing, gin-drinking man and quite coarse in manners. 
Saturday July 21, 1838. I can't think of Bob Strong, my quondam chum without calling him some name as hard as that of "Loafer," "Scarrawag" [scallawag?] etc. for his neglecting to call on me on passing through the city not long since. 
Sunday July 22, 1838. It kills a church to be without a pastor; that we have learnt by sorrowful experience. Discipline gets relaxed, members strayed, and the house of God is neglected. I hope the Lord will send us a shepherd soon--a man after his own heart. But what shall w~ .. 
Monday July 23, 1838 .... do with a Minister unless we can get rid of that old plague Julius Bolly who torments our church almost to death by his sulk[y] deportment? The devil is in him as much as he ever was in the swine. 
Tuesday July 24, 1838. A husband should be main careful of his wife's feelings. She is more delicate both in body and mind than he, a little mat.ter will give her pain. e.g. I have known men to absent themselves from 

home, it may be on necessary business, beyond the usual time without 
notifying their wives of it, who in the meantime were worrying theirselves 
to death with apprehension for their safety. 
This is nothing short of barbarity--to rack a delicate mind thus with anxious fears when a few minutes' walk might have set all to right. It shows a husband of very dull sensibilities and little refinement. 
Wednesday July 25, 1838. The Rambler is certainly a misnomer. He always plods in the beaten road of his predecessor following the Spectator. I should be glad to know the name of this laborious writer. Lady Mary W. Montague (1754) 
Thursday July 26, 1838. H. Fielding has given a true picture of himself and his first Wife in the character of Mrs. and Mr. Booth, some compliments to his own figure excepted, and I am persuaded that several incidents men.tioned are real fact. I wonder he does not perceive Tom Jones and Mr. Booth are sorry scoundrels. 
Friday July 27, 1838. All this sort of books have the same fault which I can not easily pardon, being very mischievous. 
Saturday July 28, 1838. Jenner first inoculated for kinepox as a preventive 
against smallpox (7). Previously they inoculated for smallpox. 
Chillingworth is noted for logical reasoning. 
No subject ever rose to such power in England since the time of Woolsey as Buckingham. 
Sunday July 29, 1838. In the fifth century Christianity conquered Paganism and Paganism corrupted the Church. The leading objects of the Stoics and Epicureans were virtue and pleasure. 
Monday July 30, 1838. The Priest possessing all the learning and the no.bles being rough warriors filled all the offices in the olden time in England. Learning advancing, professed Statesmen arose. 
Tuesday July 31,1838. The books written in the modern languages for the last two hundred and fifty years are worth more than all the treasures of the olden time up to this day. 
Sir Edward Coke is called a narrow -minded, bad-hearted pedant. 
Wednesday August 1, 1838. Le Sage wrote Gil Blas. The Devil on two sticks, and Vanillo Gonzales. 

[ Gap from August 1 to August 22, 1838] 
Wednesday August 22, 1838. In the evening I was found at Mr. Van Santword's, Union Street, where my old classmate Silas H. Ashman was tied to Miss Mary Van S. in the holy bonds of matrimony--where was a great crowd of ladies and gents, plenty of cake and lemonade, kissing the bride, small talk and caloric. Came away at half-past eight smoking hot and sweating at every pore. Another "old Bach" overboard in the illlmitible sea of Mat[ rimony]. 
Thursday August 23, 1838. In the evening was found at the Lecture Room of the Baptist Church where a young man by the name of Lovett from Providence preached. He is apparently an accomplished speaker, fluent, easy, interesting. During the day was laboring at my house. 
Friday August 24, 1838. Did a devil incarnate ever exist, it does seem to be an old man by the name of Bolles who has harassed our church for a year and a half with a steadiness of purpose worthy of a better cause. 
He was one of the oldest members of the church and was a second time excom[municated] a few weeks since for his excessive insolence to the church with contempt and slander. 
Saturday August 23, 1838. I don't think there ever was such a peculiar case, and the only palliation for the old man's conduct is the probability of his being insane. 
Sunday August 26, 1838. Brother Joseph Sawyer, last of Schuylerville, is now preaching for us. His brother, Conant of North Randolph, has been invited to serve as pastor but has as yet given no decisive answer. Brother Lovell of Providence has also spent a few days with us--a young [man] of considerable literary taste, some poetry and a little vanity. Wouldn't do for 
us. 
Monday August 27, 1838. In the summer and autumn of life, how the rank weeds of care grow up in the path of man. All his [vigilance?] cannot keep them down. 
Tuesday August 28, 1838. How vain are all resolutions made in the strength of man! The first breath of affliction or the slightest trial breaks them like a slender reed. Paul said truly that he could do all things through the Lord strengthening him, but without Him he could do nothing. 

Wednesday August 29, 1838. It is vain for any man to affect to despise the opinions of others, however vile or insignificant. 
Thursday August 30, 1838. The Lord is doing a good work at the little cot.ton-factory village in the conversion of souls. 
How little do we deserve this satisfaction, who have labored so slothfully for many years to instil the truth of the Bible into the minds of children there! 
Sometimes the Lord blesses where seed has been heedlessly scat.tered to show that the glory is all of Himself. Some twenty souls, we hope, have been born again and others are weighed down with the burthen of their sins. 
May the Holy Spirit go from heart to heart [among?] those poor wicked laborers and convict them of their sins and renew them in to Righteousness. 
Friday August 31,1838. There ls quackery in everything but especially in Law; those who by mere chicanery and low blackguard[ism] can gain un.fair advantage are sure to please the rabbi~ and get large business and plentiful returns. 
Such pettifoggers succeed in ordinary business but great and impor.tant cases are beyond their province; they can dose with***** for a cold or for the colic, but their tricks and nostrums fail with the greater derange.ments of the system. 
Saturday September 1, 1838. To tell the truth in regard to myself, I am unhappy in my present business and why I can hardly tell unless it be that it is so dull and listless, so entirely the same thing from term to term. 
I long for a driving, active business of a mechanical nature. Oh this pedagoging is a nuisance. The Sons of God met together this afternoon to hold a covenant meeting and Satan came also among them. Bolles broke up our meeting entirely by his outrageous conduct and language. .
Sunday September 2, 1838. Mr. B[olles] repeated the same conduct today at our communion season, and was carried out of church by order of the constable. 
Poor deluded man! led captive by the devil. 
It is certainly a matter of joy to me to know that one of my Sabbath School boys at the cotton factory has become hopefully pious. Whether or no my poor instructions have been of any importance in that work of grace I know not. 

God may have made use of such feeble means. 
Monday September 3, 1838. Doctor Potter is sick of the fashionable minis.ter's throat complaint and has taken the customary remedy --a tour of Europe. 
I am inclined to think there is some truth in an article from the New York Observer attributing this disease to [the] practice of reading sermons. The reasons thus given are very plausible and may be very easily tested by trial and observation. 
Tuesday September 4, 1838. Deacon Bailey in behalf of the church entered complaint against Mr. Bolles at a justice's office and took out a warrant for him; at his request the trial was adjourned. Was there ever a people so severely afflicted as we ... 
Wednesday September 5, 1838 .... and with as little hope of rellefl 
Who sympathizes for us? Do the rabble? Nay, verily, are the body of other churches our warm and cordial friends? I fear not. Our churches have been from time out of mind the mark against which others have felt at liberty to shoot with perfect impunity. 
Thursday September 6, 1838. Besides, let me bring another reason why, in my opinion, we cannot have that power over disturbers of our peace that many other churches in our city do. We are not powerful in [the] view of this world, men of wealth and high standing in the community. We have not a large house and bell. Neither are we among the rulers of the city. 
Friday September 7, 1838. Here \s the grand secret. If we proceed against Mr. Bolles, however justly, how many are there of those who are not our well-wishers that are ready to raise a hue and cry that we are persecuting a poor old man? 
Piety in a body of men or in a single individual cannot command the respect of the multitude. Greatness either of wealth or rank only can do this. 
Saturday September 8, 1838. The admissions of students has been about the usual number. 
We err here in permitting so many to come in as University students in the same apparent standing as a man of good acquirements in his class, inasmuch as such men are supposed by many to have [entered?] uncondi.tionally. Here we give ground to be spoken against. 
Mr. Bailey's suit against Mr. Bolles was tried yesterday and the de.fendant was found guilty, fined this morning ten dollars and costs of court. 

Schenectady Sunday September 9, 1838. For two years past, during which I have been in fellowship with this Baptist Church, I must confess that I have not en.joyed our, meetings and religious exercises in so great degree as I could wish. I must censure my ownself for much of this, for I have neglected God and he has deprived me of comfort. But other causes conspire ... 
Monday September 10, 1838 .... to the same end. Our church in this period has been in an unsettled state much of the time, and discipline has been lamentably neglected. Besides, our pecuniary affairs have been a cause of peculiar anxiety. A few of the brethren have borne almost the entire ex.pense whilst others have done nothing. 
Tuesday September 11, 1838. I often think that the discipline of our Baptist churches is deficient in power and too democratic and yet I do not know but that the same defects arise in other churches from other causes. 
Wednesday September 12, 1838. Have four recitations: two in Trigonometry, one in Algebra and one in Arithmetic. Our fashion here is to do as little as possible and get as much as possible for it. It is for my inter.est, however, to do as much as possible that I may with the better grace ask for an increase of salary. 
Thursday September 13, 1838. We have about the usual accessions to our College in number but, if conned rightly, superior in attainment to the previous additions in former years. 
Friday September 14, 1838. I have often thought whilst viewing the vast quarries of stone near the city that our citizens do not construct their homes in the most economical manner whilst using brick so exclusively. I know of only one stone building in the city and that is the West College in which I am now writing. The comparative cost ... 
Saturday September 15, 1838, ... of brick and stone are about as three dollars to eighty-nine cents but inasmuch as a stone wall should be built about double the thickness of a brick our ratio would be as three dollars to a dollar and seventy-five cents, showing a saving of nearly one-half in us.ing stone. 
The quality of this stone is not the best, it is true, and it should be stuc.coed, but this would not cost more than the ordinary painting. 
Sunday September 16, 1838. The gospel makes a most astonishing charge in the unregenerate mind. A poor little fellow in my Sabbath School class at the cotton factory has to all appearance been converted. He said today, on being asked if he would take a book from the Sabbath School library that he wished to spend all his leisure time in reading the Bible, which I have not a doubt he does do very carefully, for his progress in reading has been very rapid within a few weeks past. 
Monday Seplember 17, 1838. I understand from some students that my old classmate Steinburgh has built a house, married a wife, and begat a child! "Go-ahead"! 
Tuesday September 18, 1838. Dr. Joslin has commenced his course of lec.tures on Anatomy etc. Such a lecturer! He makes ridiculous everything with which he meddles, just as Midas in the fable turned everything into gold by his touch. His awkardness leads him into all manner of blunders and the slovenly way in which he dissects is disgusting in the extreme. 
Wednesday September 19, 1838. How pleasant a fall! Not a frost has come yet to destroy the foliage of our forests and fields. Harvests are abundant and all the necessaries of life. The Lord be praised. 
Thursday September 20, 1838. Politicians on the move for election in November. What a ferment the whole community is in at such seasons! Here are plots and counter-plots. Soliciting of votes and buying of votes, means fair and means foul to carry an end. Men talk as though the fate of the country depended upon every state election. 
Friday September 21, 1838. What an oddity John Foster is! With a certain portion of rustic wit he unites awkardness, and "grannyishness." He is a good teacher, but poor police-officer. A man of the right stamp for such a situation must have decision of character and celerity of movements, all of which F[oster] does not possess. 
Saturday September 22, 1838, One who has never undertaken to build a house cannot know how much trouble and anxiety it costs one besides the pecuniary expense, and yet I like the excitement of having a gang of men to oversee and direct. I ought to have been a mechanic, as I have said of.ten. My taste runs that way and I believe I should have excelled therein. 
Sunday September 23, 1838. Conant Sawyer of North Randolph, Mass., has come among us to be our Pastor. We hope he is sent of the Lord and will do 

muchgood. 
How much have I to mourn of my wanderings from the Lord and my habitual sinfulness. How little religion do I enjoy, yet how many blessings. God's goodness is not limited by my deserts but he bestows liberally and with a bountirul hand. 
Monday September 24, 1838. A young German, formerly professor at Gottingen, is now lecturing to the Senior Class on Roman law and political economy. Tell Kamph, by name. A very smart, flippant little fellow and of considerable talents and acquirements. In the recent difficulties at that University with Prince Ernest he was among those Prof[essors] who were sent away. 
Tuesday September 25, 1838 . When we look at the brief space of human life and all its ills how wisely do those act who look beyond and calmly wait for more substantial good in the joys of heaven. What else but pains and woes could so effectually wean us from a love of this world. 
I often feel as though I could bless the Hand that sometimes lightly afflicts me and say, "Lord, let him do as seemeth him good." 
Wednesday September 26, 1838. Poor weak, erring flesh! When shall I ever have strength to resist temptations to sin and forget God? When shall I love Him supremely and the world less? I resolve again and again but do not fulfil my resolutions, yet how patiently He bears with me. 
Thursday September 27, 1838. There is an eternal din about money among us; all that we say or do tends to that subject. 
"How much can be made?" is the standing question in regard to ev.ery enterprise. Now why do Americans above other people make dollars and cents the chief good? Why seek material and leave the immaterial? 
Friday September 28, 1838. An irascible disposition is a great embitter.ment of life, as I very well know from my own experience. Little things cause me to fret and chafe exceedingly to the injury not only of my own happiness but the quiet of others. I lament it yet sometimes fear that the evil is too deeply seated ever to be removed. 
Saturday September 29, 1838. I know of no one objection that would so much deter me from marriage as [this] lamentable failing because I should think it wrong to commit myself with anyone to make her miserable through my harsh treatment. 
I do not say that a right union of hearts might not soften down the asperities of my nature, although I am fearful my habits are too confirmed. 

The truth is my nature is rough and uncultivated; my feelings are not refined. Could I be tamed? 
Immense turn out of Whigs to a County Convention in Princetown. The whole city swarmed. It was a noble sight to see a hundred carriages filled with sober, intelligent citizens going forth to deliberate on the choice of men for candidates to fill our offices. 
Sunday September 30, 1838. Delightful weather, one of those soft, mild days partaking of both summer and autumn. 
September is certainly one of our pleasantest months. 
The foliage of our forests is just beginning to put on its variegated appearance so much extolled by European travelers. Dr. Tell Kamphe says our climate is a mixture of German and Italian climates. How these pains and aches of our body corporate remind one of ap.proaching mortality. 
Feeling a pain in my left breast this morning, I walked up the Utica Railroad three and a half miles hoping to find relief, succeeded in a mea.sure. I do believe that we Americans neglect our Physical Education more than most other people. . 
German students can study ten hours daily; we seldom do that with safety. Why? Probably because we neglect our bodies in exercising our minds. 
But my mind and pen are wandering as far as my feet did this morning which, save on this especial occasion, should have restrained. Brother Sawyer preached a most delightful sermon this evening. He is more elegant than profound. 
Monday October 1, 1838. We have day after day of most charming weather. How much this expression of Divine favour calls for gratitude and thanksgiving. Yet [though] God smiles through his beautiful works upon us, how seldom do we like children render the tribute of grateful hearts to so good a Father? Our lives are disfigured by ingratitude; we enjoy but forget the source of our enjoyments. 
Tuesday October 2, 1838. The contented man has a continual feast: poverty or riches are alike to him. Whether he is blest with abundance or dwells in obscurity he has enough. Nothing can make him unhappy. 
Wednesday October 3, 1838. Building a house and hearing four recitations a day --quite business enough, I find. Nevertheless I enjoy good health and strength to perform all my duties, which certainly calls for my gratitude. May I never forget who it is that prospers me in all my undertakings. 
Yet oh! how often do I! poor ingrate that I am. 

Thursday October 4, 1838. "Now," say they, "he is preparing a cage for his bird." Would that it were so, but I am so firm a bachelor that it does seem as though I never should be mated; I must say to you, however, what I have never whispered to any other being, that I should like to change my "single blessedness" for double blissfulness. Two or three things ... 
Friday October 5, 1838 .... hinder: a fear that I may not make the woman happy with whom my lot may be cast, that she may not make me happy, and the want of a woman to my mind. I have a fretful disposition; little things ruffle me; therefore I should hate above all things to plant one pang in a woman's breast by subjecting her all her life to my incurable failings. 
Saturday October 6, 1838. What different relations might work in me for 
the better I know not, yet I fear. .
Sunday October 7, 1838. A minister is a common target at which the public take liberty to aim. His reputation should be preserved inviolate by his flock; --not a whisper should ever be uttered by way of detraction. Yet where do you not find such an abused pastor or such a back-biting people? Public men generally enjoy the like uneviable lot of being criticized in all their acts so that what may be said of Ministers is but the same general detraction thrown upon all good men. May we never be any more guilty of this damning sin. 
Monday October 8, 1838. Dr. Nott has at length raised my salary to 725$ with the encouragement of giving me the other $75 towards the interest accruing on my lot. He has much in his character to be admired and much to be despised, a strange mixture of greatness and littleness. 
Magnanimity is a virtue which the Dr. does not very much know, es.pecially in his efforts to govern the College and accomplish his purposes among men. 
He prefers cunning and intrigue [in] management when he wishes to move men to his-purpose, even when open and frank avowal would per.haps be more to his success. 
Tuesday October 9, 1838. By his method although he may arrive at the desired results he loses in character what he gains in his purpose. 
I am told that his character is so fully known among his brother cler.gymen that his influence is much lessened from what it once was. Of this, however, I cannot vouch, although I must confess so far as I am concerned that the more I have to do with him the less veneration I have for his character. 

Wednesday October 10, 1838. Politics are the grand absorbing topic of conversation. As the State Election draws near, parties array themselves in fierce conflict. 
The Whigs are flushed with their much success and the Loco-Focos are desperatelv bent upon gaining their lost ground. This election is life or death with them and of this they are fully aware. Which ever party ... 
Thursday October 11, 1838 .... gains the day I hope our country will never be cursed with the "Sub-treasury" system, strengthening the Executive with the public purse. It is to be feared that such a measure would be dan.gerous in the extreme to our liberties. 
Friday October 12, 1838. In the evening attended a meeting of Sabbath School teachers and friends of school for the purpose of devising means for the increasing our school. Most important measure was to form a Bible Class for teachers and older pupils to meet on Friday evenings with the pastor and recite the lesson for the subsequent Sabbath. 
Saturday October 13, 1838. Weather reminds one of the comfort of a glowing fire. 
Went to John Clark's on Troy Turnpike after wood --an excellent farmer, has fine apples and fine daughters! Spent a most agreeable evening with the ladies. 
It is not necessary, I suppose, for me to repeat the assertion that one gets clownish who does not spend a portion of his time in the company of the ladies. Nevertheless my experience so often corresponds with this fact that I cannot help mentioning the old truism. For weeks, yea months, I never make a single call, be it said to my reproach. 
Sunday October 14, 1838. Mr. P. [S.7] preached a most charming sermon this morning, full of beauty and elegance; his equal is not to be found in the city as a preacher. He is a man of good literary taste, and I hope (which is more) a man of unpretending piety and good judgement. Such a pastor is beyond price, yet I am pained to see the apathy of our church in matters of a pecuniary character concerning the minister, letting him live upon promises and hope deferred. No trouble causes me as much anxiety as the affairs of this church. My comfort is all [but?] destroyed by the worriment which I feel in regard to their mismanagements, and yet what avails it? I cannot alter them. I am a Baptist from principle and in conscience or I would not remain in this church a single day. May the Lord assist us! 

Monday October 15, 1838. [No entry other than the date] 
[Gap from October 15, 1838 to February 12, 1840] 

