
February 12, 1840. To be in debt is one of the most grievous of all mortal evils. I owe as much as will take me a year to pay off with the most rigid economy. If Heaven prospers me that I may get out of this trial, I never will be so situated again. It is no man's duty to be so embarrassed as a debtor is: duty? It is not permitted to him in the Bible to be in debt at all. " Owe no man anything." 
(Written February 12, 1840) Wednesday January 3, 1840. Died this day my good friend Savage at Quincy, Pa.[Fla.?] and with him much worth and talents. á 
How hard to realize the death of a near friend! The thought is strange and unwelcome that I shall see Savage no more in this world. His like we never shall see more. His equal, when shall we find him? He was an ambi.tious student, a devoted lover of literary pursuits, of just taste and discrimination and, what is more, a lover of his God. 
Poor widow! she dies a thousand deaths! 
Thursday February 13, 1840. [No entry other than the date] 
Friday February14, 1840. Suppose a stream of mixed Oxygen and Nitrogen gases in proportions of 250 to 100 by volume be diverted into the flame of the Oxy-Hydrogen blowpipe. What will be the product? Nitric acid? or one of the nitrous acids? Try it. 
Saturday February 1 S, 1840 -Cross Readings. 
CROSS WRITING HERE 

Sunday February 16, 1840. The Lord has visited our church in mercy, not in judgement as we deserve. I am told that unconverted men are anxious to press into the Kingdom and that some have entered. Don't go to any meetings save on the Sabbath. 
My duties will not permit. On this account my brethren think me a grievous sinner. Their labors close with the day, mine at bed-time or eleven o'clock. They labor for themselves and can spare a day or two, when they please, to attend religious meetings. My recitations must go on, for when I stop thirty young men lose two recitations a day. 
"But," say they, "it is your duty to be at your post in the church en.couraging and assisting by your labors." Duty cannot call two ways at the same time. Either I must neglect my profession or I must be absent [from] our meetings during the week. 
I am a wicked sinner, I must confess, for were I disposed there are not wanting opportunities for doing good every day around me. 
Monday February 17, 1840. The laboratory is my constant abode this term from morning till night. I have been experimenting upon the powers of different gases to produce sounds when blown through a pipe constructed like a boy's willow whistle. The result has been as I had anticipated. The denser the gas, the lower the tone; thus Hydrogen produces a tone nearly an octave above that produced by the common air. Carb[olic?] Acid, much lower etc. I propose to make a full set of experiments on the subject when I get time. 

Tuesday February 18, 1840. I find that Chladni and Jacquin (of Vienna?) made some experiments like those which I yesterday proposed. The ac.count is given in 4th Vol. Phil. Mag. (Tillock's). It is hard finding anything new. I had thought this original with myself, but must have read some.thing relating to it which has been forgotten. 
Wednesday February 19, 1840. I have been reflecting upon the immense loss of valuable and useful sources of knowledge which are occasioned by our destroying most of the tracts, pamphlets, odd numbers of magazines and newspapers which we receive now and then. These little scraps of learning because they are not bound in leather and are but crumbs are neglected and suffered to perish. Dr. Sprague of Albany, I am told, has col.lected 1200 volumes of such fugitive books and given them to the Library at Princeton Theological Seminary. That is [an] invaluable collection. I pre.sume it cost him but a trifle above the cost of binding. 
Now a full collection of newspapers from the commencement of our government would afford a fine source for the historian to draw from. Nothing better. 
Such a gatherum I wish to make and propose to commence from this time. In ten years one may get a thousand volumes without much tax upon his time or purse. I must lay my friends under contribution. 
Thursday February 20, 1840. I am told that in Germany the Libraries make exchanges of duplicate copies of books. A catalogue is first circulated, those are marked which are wanted, and the books exchanged. This plan is adopted in specimens of Natural History. Wouldn' t it be well to extend the plan? A great part of the literature of this country is published in periodi.cals. We are celebrated for being a newspaper-reading people. If then these perishable materials are not preserved, future generations will find a great dearth of materials for a correct history of our times. 
I had rather set down at this time and read the volumes of some good standard newspapers published during the period of our Revolution with a view of learning the history of those times than to read the best elaborate book which has ever been put forth upon than subject. The political annals of our Government must be collected almost entirely from newspapers. 
We have no other information except what is derived from this source. 

Friday February 21, 1840. In carrying out the plan of yesterday for collecting newspapers, pamphlets etc. I propose to have cases made for the newpapers of the following form, keeping each year separate. 
--DRAWING HERE-.
This case has one hundred and forty-three apartments which may be ap.
propriated for the safe keeping of newspapers, one apartment to each year 
according as they are labelled. The details may be varied at pleasure. 
Saturday February 23, 1840. In further pursuance of my plan I propose to have another case for pamphlets of the following form. 
--DRAWING HERE-.
Among the Theological Tracts there should be a division into Sermons, Addresses, Religious Tracts, Doctrinal, Practical etc; Political, of Legislative and Public Documents, Speeches, Reports of Committees on various sub.jects, etc. Under Miscellany will be found Catalogues of Literary Institutions, of books, Chem[ical] and Phil[osophical] Apparatus, Plants, Minerals etc and among scientific tracts may be numbered Almanacs, Magazines etc. 
The donor should be requested to write his name in some place upon the pamphlets which will not be cut off in binding. 
Sunday February 23, 1840. My birthday. I am twenty-seven years old. How swift do "the days of the years of my life" fleet away! Twenty-seven years old! It seems hardly possible. I feel boyish yet. I remember when I was a boy as though it were but yesterday; and now I am come to man's estate. How loath we all are to grow old, can age be dishonorable? 
A very proper time for self examination. Year after year crumbles away and how know I whither this or that will bear me away with itself into eternity. Am I ready for the journey? 
My loins should be girt about, my shoes upon my feet, my staff in my hand in readiness for the summons. 
Alas! as the sow wallows in the filth and delights in uncleanliness, so my soul delights in the poor, vain baubles of this world. If I am weaned from them, soon I hanker for them again. If heaven allures, my eye turns back to earth as Lot's wife's did upon Sodom. Heaven grant that my worldly mindedness may not be so sorely punished! 
In looking over the pages of my past Diary I see no spot of sunshine to my soul. I am always complaining of barrenness in religion, coldness of affections towards God. When did I ever speak of the enjoyments of reli.gion? Seldom, I believe. It ought not so to be. 

Jona[than], live not so near to earth, rise into higher regions, to the purer atmosphere of heaven. The wings of faith are the strong pinions to bear thy soul above meaner things to more substantial good. Be content with thy lot. Grasp not for worldly gear. Remember that this life is but a vapor (witness poor Savage's death). 
Act well thy part but hope not for comfort from mere worldly things. "Godliness with contentment is great gain"! (Note this.) 
Monday February 24, 1840. Writing a short course of lectures on Chemistry and heat for the Senior Class next term. Poor way of having a science. It is the means, however, which many men in these days use to "get glory." The candidate for this high honor writes a good popular lecture, well peppered with figures and large words. He then commences his peri.grinations. First he delivers it in Albany at the Young Men's Association. Then at Troy, Utica, Hudson and Poughkepsie. He wishes to go to Boston perhaps. He takes his great lecture along with him and, having previously given notice that he is coming, he holds forth all the way at the important places. When he returns to Schenectady, he is laden with honors. His blos.soms hang thick around him. Behold how great a fire a little matter kindleth. 
Tuesday February 25, 1840. The good old Divine Ezra Stiles is said to have been an unconscionably long preacher. His congregation, they say, could go home to dinner and come back in time to hear the application! 
I sometimes am led to suspect that a negro naturally has less intel.lect than the white man, notwithstanding the much that is said in his favor. "Emperor" Wright's son, Theodore, is a Presbyterian Minister in New York, was educated at Princeton Theological Seminary and has been judged a man of considerable abilities. He however makes many such blunders as the following. Preaching to the Blacks in this city some time ago, he said "Brethren, you must repent and believe or you will be "led captively cap.tive." 
Wednesday February 26, 1840. Prof. John A. Yates is a singular man, a budget of inconsistencies and errors. 
He is a nervous man, fidgety, and envious. His tongue has unbounded licence, cutting to the right and left and sparing nothing, however sacred by age, by high authority and common consent. He abounds and delights in paradoxes, and prides himself perhaps as much upon saying things hetero.dox in religion as others do in being orthodox. He has good talents but is inclined to be lazy, and is fickle and wavering in purpose. A politer and 

kinder man will seldom be found. 
Thursday February 27, 1840. Fast day for Colleges, Academies and other Institutions of Learning. Our exercises consisted of two good sermons by Ned Allen of Albany on the necessity of the new birth. Quite a warm and stirring preacher. Hope he has done some good here. 
In the summer of '38, month of June, when Elder Knapp the revival preacher held a long meeting in this city, nearly fifty students were thought to have been converted. Since that time I have heard of no con.version till this winter. Snyder and Nichols seem to have become Christians and some others are seeking Christ, sorrowing for their sins. Professors of Religion in College are much revived[?]. 
Friday February 28, 1840. Ice out of the Mohawk and Hudson Rivers. Boat up from New York; 
We have the weather of April. Many of the spring birds have come. 
The "soft" maple buds begin to expand. 
How blessed a thing Charity is we learn from Paul. How few there be which possess it we learn from experience. When we are much engaged in religion and enjoy the light of God's countenance. when we have, as nearly as our imperfect abilities will permit, done our duty both to God and man. Every true Christian knows full well the danger of his being beset with spiritual pride. He looks upon his less active brother sometimes with un.charitable feelings, and reprimands him with an unchristian spirit. He spends much time, it may be, in the praiseworthy labors of converting sin.ners to God . His voice is often heard in public praying and exhorting; his brother perhaps walks and labors in a more unobtrusive sphere but is he necessarily less performing the will of God if he shapes his course by the Word and employs his talents diligently? 
How often have I felt these unkind emotions in my own breast! 
Saturday February 29, 1840. I have been led to these remarks from long and late experience. My excessive labors in the laboratory have hindered me from attending those long and interesting meetings which have been held in town during the past winter. Yet some of my brethren more zeal.ous than myself think it strange that I am absent from these exercises where God so abundantly blesses his people. I am looked upon as a miser.able backslider, as a poor drone, a recreant who holds back when the whole strength of Zion is needed for the conquest of her foes. 
Let me be called by whatever name and I shall not deny my unwor.thiness to a seat among the Godly. Heaven knows my shortcomings in duty, my secret sins and my omissions in duty. Yet how can I rank myself with those who rejoice not in the prosperity of Christ's kingdom? I know that I am the least of Christ's flock, if worthy to be accounted one of his sheep, and that my heart is desperately wicked, yet have a hope in his mercy which faileth not towards the most vile. 

How often have I thought of our Savior's conduct towards the woman taken in adultery. 
Sunday March 1, 1840, When her accusers were ready to stone her, men who were wicked like herself, Jesus the sinless could look upon her in mercy. He bid her depart and sin no more. Now herein we see the different spirits of men and God, the one unmerciful and unforgiving, the other full of love and ready to forgive all who repent. 
Let me say besides that there appears to me to be a growing notion among the less informed Christians that all religion consists in public exercises. The man who prays much and loud in public and exhorts with all long patience is considered the eminently pious man whilst he who does none of these things but pleads with strong supplications in secret is looked upon as only half a saint. I depreciate no prudent exercise of gifts for public speaking, yet let it be done with humility and charity towards those who have no such showy accomplishments. God will as readily hear prayer uttered in secret as in public, I suppose, and has doubtless given different gifts which if well used will give an appropriate sphere of useful.ness to each individual. 
Some persons should never be heard in a large and mixed assembly; others should hold forth because they have the talent. God is not honored by the stammering, babbling tongue before the ungodly, yet these same persons can honor Him before the world by their Godly walk and conver.sation and by their private devotionsá and personal influence among their acquaintances. 
Thirty-two persons were baptized and joined the Baptist Church to.day. How unworthy are we of such signal tokens of God's favor! He has blessed the means which his people have used to the conversion of many souls but all the glory belongs to him. 
Monday March 2, 1840. Englishmen are particularly hard in their jokes upon the Scotch. They charge them with being lousy and covered with itch, in allusion to which filthy disease they say that the Duke of Argyle set up "rubbing posts" throughout his estates against which, when his tenants rubbed themselves, they exclaimed, "God bless the Duke of Argyle." Nothing will anger a Highlander quicker than to tell this story, or in any way allude to this infirmity. They say that a Scot soldier walking the streets of London saw a hog rubbing himself against a post. He immedi.ately drew his sword and hewed off head, saying at the same time, "No re.flections on one's country." 

When the 42nd Reg[iment] of Highlanders first came to London after the Pretender's defeat, one of the Cockneys, to put a joke upon them, step[pedl up to one and raising his kilt gave him a slap with his hand upon the soldier's buttocks. It was no sooner done than the Highlander, drawing his claymore, sent the Cockney's head rolling into the ditch. 
1áhave often heard of "tickling trout" but always supposed it to be a mere joke till William McNiven, our Scotch gardener, asserted positively that it was a fact. He says that he has often caught them in that way in the mountain streams in Scotland especially when they are low as in the sum.mer months, then by wading up the stream and gently putting the hands under the banks and rocks where the fish lay they may be taken in con.siderable numbers. 
Tuesday March 3, 1840. The chemist cannot be too careful of his lungs. The noxious vapors and gases are exceedingly detrimental to his health. I know this [from] experience. For some days past I have had a pain in my lung (left side) caused solely by chlorine, muriatic acid, gas etc. It is diff[icult] to procure these deleterious gases in sufficient quantities for large experiments and to exhibit them before a class without letting some escape. Poor Savage was injured by his devotion to Chemistry. 
Wednesday March 4, 1840. John Nott -an odd animal -acts as though he was love-cracked. Tries to imitate his .father in some things. He seems to me an unhappy old bachelor with few prospects in the world which are pleasant in the contemplation. He has small talents, I imagine. John preaches in the country to one or two churches and tells some amusing anecdotes of the state of things in his parishes. He says that, sometime since, he married a couple of his parishioners and, happening about three months afterwards to preach in a schoolhouse in the neighborhood, he saw this same woman with a baby in her arms, apparently her own. After speaking of the subject of repentance, at the close of the meeting he ap.proached Mrs. Smith and commenced making an application of the sermon to her case. 
"Well, Mrs. Smith, don't you feel that this applies to you?" "Oh yes, Mr. Nott! We are all sinners. We ought to repent." "But some have more need of repentance than others." "Yes, some folks are greater sinners than others." "I was thinking, Mrs. S., that the duty of repentance was particu.larly applicable to you," "I 'spose I am wicked, but I don't know that I am worse than my neighbors." "Well but --but that child in your arms." "What of the boy? don't you think he's a fine one, he looks like his daddy, don't he"? "Yes, Mrs. Smith, but I married you only three months ago. " "0 sh-t," says Mrs. Smith, "all the gals do so about here!" 
John's congregation is surely in need of good preaching if these sen.timents and practices are prevalent. 
Thursday March 5,1840. John tells another story equally illustrative of a loose state of moral acting and thinking. Two neighbors of his congregation Messrs A and B were found quarreling in Mr. A's house during one of his pastoral visits. John requested a statement of the cause of such a boister.ous altercation that he might mediate between them and settle all difficul.ties. 
A: Well, Domine, I would have you to understand that I went down to Durip last week: and, happening to sell off my load in good time, got home earlier than usual. When I came into the house I found this rascal B. in pretty suspicious circumstances with my wife. 
John: I am sorry, Mr. A, to hear such injury done your honor; I doubt not you feel it deeply, but you are well aware that shedding blood and break.ing heads will not mend the matter. Can't the quarrel be more easily set.tled? 
A: I'm in no mind to break heads or spill blood, Domine, about the matter. That war'nt what we were quarelling about. I offered to settle the "hash" with him for 10$ but he wont give me but 5$!! 
Query: how much did he value his wife's virtue and his own character? 
Friday March 6,1840. "Old Madison Young" (of Senior class) called in while I was dating this page and proposed the following problem from Day's al.gebra which I solved for him. 
"There are 4 nos. in Arith. prog. whose sum is 28 and their continued product 585. What are the nos?" á 
Suppose 2y = the-com. diff. and let. x-3y = first term x-y = 2nd . " x+y = 3d " "x+3y = ~th" then 4x = 28 and x = 7 (x-3y)(x-y)(x+y)(x+3y) = x*.1Ox_y_+9y* = 385 substituting val. x 7*-1Ox7 _+9y* = 585 & 9y*-490y_ = 585-7* = -1816 y* 490y_= -1816 .. y_ = ~ 490_-1816x~6 = ~90_240100-65376 9 9 18 18 y_ = 490_174724= 490_418 = 72 = 4 then y=2 and 18 18 18 x-3y = 1 = first term x-y = 5 =2nd-"-x+y =9=3d-".x+3y= 13=4th-" 
"Madison" has been teaching a district school for some months past in Amsterdam--a pretty unruly set by his account. He "licked" one of them 

the other day, for which he was cited before the Justice's court, but plead his own tause so effectually as to clear himself triumphantly. 
Saturday March 7, 1840. Prof. Reed tells a story of his brother-in-law, Robert Duane, who lives in one of the northern counties. Deers are plenty in that region and may sometimes be shot in the night by torch light. 
For this purpose one man approaches sufficiently nigh them with his torch to dazzle their eyesight; they will stand still whilst another with his rifle "pops them off." Duane's man Cooley came into his room one evening and says "Two deer out in the field Capt." "Ah! Cooley, get the rifle and load up." (double-barrelled) 
Cooley approached the supposed deer carefully until the Captain at a proper distance saw their eye balls glisten. (Two of them.) "Here, Cooley, you're a good shot, let me hold the torch and you shoot." "Aye, aye Sir." "Now double them,* Cooley, mind your eye. " "Don't fear, sir, I'll do the business for them." (Bang, Bang.) "Good! They are both down, Cooley." On going up, sure enough they were "both down." But what were they? Why, the Captain's valuable bloodmare & colt!! --*(ie shoot both barrels) 
Sunday March 8, 1840. Six individuals baptized, among whom was one Turner of the Senior Class. 
There seem to have been about half a dozen conversions in College this term, how many in town I cannot say, probably some over two hun-. dred. Forty have united with the Baptist Church and others are ready to unite with it. 
Dr. Nott preached one of his most eloquent sermons this evening at the Presbyterian Church on the immortality of the soul. Don't like his preach.ing so well as many. He constantly strives at eloquence. His sermons are always beautiful, elegant, and composed of exclamations, but want argu.ment, original views, and depth of thought! To me he seems eloquent with.out power. He pleases but not affects, he charms but not impresses with lasting good. I can easily imagine how splendid a speaker he once was from what he now appears. 
Monday March 9, 1840. Father sick, two months. Abscess on his throat, getting better. Very severe. "Owe no man anything." Excellent advice! I know well its value from experience. To be in debt ls to be upon a gridiron. 
Tuesday March 10, 1840. Save all the good anecdotes I hear. Good wit in this. John Smith (in want of a better name) left his hat upon a table of a public house and went to dinner. John had his name "John Smith's" written on the inside in large letters which doubtless attracted the notice of some wag, who took pencil and wrote under the label "Golgotha." Good, isn't it? 

Wednesday March 11, 1840. A certain Methodist sexton who had more zeal than knowledge lived not long since in Poughkepsie. He was particu.larly known for his loud and frequent responses during the parson's ser.mon, but whenever he was obliged to leave his seat to stir the fires, shut the doors or do any other of his ordinary duties during services lest any.thing might 
[continued where?] 

might be uttered by the minister too good to pass without a response, he always made the following exclamation with great vehemence by way of anticipations: "God Bless the Lord!! Amen. 
Thursday March 12 1840. Old Dr. Gilbert West is said to have been a very eccentric man. They tell this story of him. Upon an occasion when he was visiting the house of one of his parishioners, he took his seat near one of the ladies who had on a white cambric apron. In the course of the interview, the wind or some other unlucky agent carried a corner of the ladies apron over upon the Dr's knee who happening to cast his eye downward thought that by some mishap a comer of his shirt was hanging out of his breeches, so he commenced cramming the ladies apron in to his pantaloons. She, finding him so bent upon the op[p]eration, unloosed the strings and let him have it all. When the Dr. got home and undressed, behold what should he find but a ladies apron in his breeches; he soon found out his laughable blunder and returned the unlucky garment. 
Friday March 13, 1840. Similar to the above accident was that which befel a Philadelphia exquisite who exported all his clothes direct from Paris. It happened soon after the pantaloons which open by a slit in front was introduced that he attended a party dressed in such a suit. He felt a little awkward in them and feared some accident might happen to his new-fashioned breeches. In the course of the evening he sat down in a chair where was a ladies handkercheif. 
Casting his eye down; in dismay he saw what he thought to be the flap of his shirt, so he commenced cramming it into his breeches. The lady seeing her handkercheif disappearing so fast, addressed him, "Mr. Smith, my handkercheif, if you please." 
Saturday March 14, 1840. Robert Hall says that Dr. Chalmers has only one idea on [in?] a sermon, and that he has motion without progress like a door. on its hinges. 'Tis said that this observation is true, [although] I can not speak from experience because I have not read enough of his writings. 
Sunday March 15,1840 How delightful is this Sunday exercise of teaching children in a school! Those poor little ragged cotton-factory boys I have been teaching more or less for 8 years and, although the seed is long sown, yet it now and then brings forth fruit to eternal life. Man's strength is vain without the help of God's Spirit. Eleven were baptised to-day, making in all nearly fifty; others are waiting for baptism. 

Monday March 16, 1840. To the lover of Nature such a work as "White's Natural History of Selborne" must be a delightful treat. It is a simple, plane and unadorned account of a quiet man's observations in his native village where he spent a long life. How easily can one read this good man's life in this little work! --a quiet unobtrusive man --a lover of nature, chasing rather to dwell in peace accompanied with obscurity where he could indulge his favorite study, than to be distracted with the hustle of the world however attended with honor. 
Tuesday March 17, 1840. It is said of Dr. Mason that he was a great lover of horses and frequently drove through the streets of New York beyond the rate established by law. On one of these occasions the constable stopped him, saying: 11Sir you are driving too fast, you are liable to be fined." What is the fine for this misdemeanor? "$10 sir." Here take your money. Go along Dobbin. --and drove off at the same furious rate as before. 
Wednesday March 18, 1840. Dr. Alex. Proudfit I have heard often tell many very am.using stories and anecdotes in connection with Dr. McMasters and Dr. Yates. This is one of them. A certain divine was preaching with much spirit, and in the midst of his sermon his notes fell from his desk, and in reaching over to catch them, [he] lost his balance and tumbled headlong after them to the floor. A wag remarked that he kept close to his text! 
Thursday March 19, 1840. Dr. McMasters says that he never has any notes before him when preaching but that he always has a skeleton of his sermon in his coat pocket. So habituated is he to this practice that, says he, 11I could not preach with comfort unless I could feel my notes in my pocket. 11 
Friday March 20, 1840. My Grandfather, who served in the Revolutionary War and on board of privateers, once told me this remarkable dream. "As I lay on my hammock, I dreamed that we met a vessel of the enemy, abrig of 10 guns called the Vengeance, that we fought 7 glasses and were taken. The next day," says he, "we met the vessel dreamed and everything happened as I had seen the night before and we were carried into Halifax prisoners." He asserts also that he had never seen or heard of this vessel before. 
Saturday March 21 1840. Speaking of orthodoxy, Dr. A. Proudfit said, 11Every man thinks there is no "doxy" so good as his own." Kind 

Chaucer --Geoffrey Chaucer, that "well of English undefiled" --so says Spencer. There are 2 or 3 of his Canterbury tales which I think excel any I ever read. Other are a little smutty which caused him much repentence on his death-bed. I admire the old Saxon language; to me the Latin English of later times is exceedingly distasteful. Swift writes pure English, Johnson delights in words of Latin origin. Sir Wm. Temple is a good model for a young person. ("Bolingbroke flows in right Ciceronean style" is nonsense!.) 
Sunday March 22, 1840. These are days of wonderful revivals of religion; all our cities have been visited with great out-pourings of God's Spirit. How much more have they gained by this favour than lost by this unprecedented pressure in the money matters of our land! 
Can Robert Hall's views on the Communion be right? I wis.h they were. It pains me that all Christs dear-bought children cannot sit at the same table and partake of the same one blessing of his broken body and spilled blood. I must read and think of this more. 
Monday March 23, 1840. Spencer's "Faerie Queene" --a delightful book! nevertheless his plot is confused, his personages innumerable and rarely disposed of to ones satisfaction. Sir Philip Sidney's Arcadia is tedious --worth reading however. His "Defence of Poesy" is above price. 
Tuesday March 24, 1840. 11Davy's "Consolations in Travel," esteemed by most people more because it is the remains of a great man than because it is a good book. Better so than otherwise. Full of sceptical notions. Philosophical views of a future state --dont like them. 
He never read his bible much --confirms it --means to read more. (J.P.) Davy died of delirium tremens at Geneva (J. A. Yates .. ) Mistake -twas the gout -was a high liver -fashionable man. (T. C. 
á Reed). 
March 25, 1840. A man had better follow reason in falling in love. I mean let reason precede affection for a woman. Cautiously choose her among a thousand and then love her like a lion --"like a lion"? What do you mean? Love her hard forsooth and let reason "go to grass,'' i.e. "Be sure you are right and then go ahead. 11 Thursday March 26, 1840. College is a develish sink of iniquity. I had rather send a boy of 16 to "Botany Bay." We ruin scores of them here every year. Perhaps --hope I am mistaken. 

Friday March 27, 1840. "London's Encyclopedia of Plants" is a whole library of itself. Contains more knowledge on Bot[any] than any other 6 books within my knowledge. Could'nt do without it -Vade mecum of the Bot[ anist]. 
Saturday March 28, 1840. Came as nigh getting in love some months ago as could and miss it. Came off only by the skin of my teeth --my heart got some miserable hard twinges. The good-for-nothing, black.eyed, rosy-cheeked thing "tried her prett[y]iest", but my Capt. Reason would'nt budge an inch. Plaguy long story hangs herepon --but shant tell it. 
Sunday March 29, 1840. Have you an impure-minded, filthy-spoken friend? "Yes." There is less danger in a pox-house for you than in his society. He'll corrupt your mind, entice you into his ways. You will find yourself insensibly cre[e]ping along in same polluted path, and .... Keep clear of such associates. 
Monday March 30, 1840. Snow, water, mud, --wet feet, cold toes, hoarse coughs. What a climate. Receipt for health: foot warm, head cool, long life, a competency with contentment, ever-lasting happiness, Christ Jesus. Amen. 
Tuesday March 31, 1840. So Mr. March your marching off, are you -.to a dead March ? Soon you will be as dead as a March hare, you will never counter-march --never. Who's your Marshal? 
Dreadful accident! About 1/2 past 12 yesterday the steam boat Novelty blew up when opposite Hudson. Strange to tell not a single person was injured save the venerable Dr. Nott, owner and inventor of the improvements introduced into her machinery. He was thrown full 500 ft. into the air and entirely cloven in two --the one half falling into the city of H[udson] and the other into the village of Athens. These 2 places are at war about their respective rights to do honor to his remains by giving a public burial and placing a monument over the illustrious man, both claiming that they have the veritable Dr. The cause of this melancholy accident is said to have been sheer carelessness --the Dr. sat across the safety valve at the moment of the explosion. Who made this lie? 

Wednesday April 1, 1840. Turn to page 7 5 and you will find something useful and entertaining. 
Utica 
Thursday April 2, 1840. Here I am spending some days listening to 
these young minxes in Miss S's {Sheldon's] school. Dangerous to look 
in bright eyes and lovely faces. If my heart stands this battery -.
never fear any more --no --never. 
*****! There's one ogl[e]ing me --fine form, blue eye, good features. In faith she'll peirce my heart --and I am dead. 
Friday April 3, 1840. Cross Readings, 
Cupid the little god of love --descending the steps of the U.S. Bank Wall St. --Was robbed about 2 oclock of 6 lbs sausages --a box of Brandeth's pills --and escaped unhurt under cover of darkness -.dreadfully scalded by the hot water and steam. 
Utica Saturday April 4, 1840. There is no use of being mealy-mouthed about it; when one is in love with a girl, let him edge up to her like a man and tell her so. Frankness and open-heartedness never lost any.thing yet, especially with an ingenuous and noble-minded woman. 
I cannot imagine why love should be felt to be such a sneaking passion by many persons. Why should they make it known as though they thought themselves in a dirty scrape which they can not keep secret? I am now 27 years old but never was yet in love --properly so. No doubt I have been smitten, felt some hard twinges about my heart at the sight of a pretty face, yea once was hindered from getting into it over head and ears [only] by my good sense and reason. 
Sunday April 5, 1840. Now at this late period of my bachelorship I am resolved to pluck up courage (I do not see why I should not, I have always had courage), but now having become settled in my proffession and having a home of my own ( thanks be to God for it) I have come to the point when I intend to take a wife as soon as I can get one whom I can love and [who] will love in return. "Lord" is such an one perhaps. I have known her these (let me see!) these 8 years off and on. She has been at Miss S's. since 12 or 15 years of age, has a good education, good mind but a nobler heart. How much has she been kind[?] in various ways and yet come out brighter and purer by all her affliction. Her filial affection is ... 
191 
Monday April 6, 1840 .... the brightest spot in her character. If a girl love her mother, will she not make devoted wife? Will she not love the man of her choice truly and fervently? But is she pretty? Yes, pretty but not beautiful; I mean she has not the highest order of personal beauty. Her form is faultless, head good, features regular. Has she a fortune? No. She is a fortune of herself. I ask no other, as much as I love money. 
Tuesday April 7, 1840. Money is too mean a motive for marrying. God curses money-contracts. I am resolved to offer her my hand. Heaven prosper me. "Lord" has been my beau ideal of all that is noble and beautiful in the female character for years. Why then have you not courted her favor before? Circumstances hindered. I have not been ready to marry, I have not been often near enough to her to keep up a correspondence, I have feared her heart preoccupied by some other love, in fact I never expected to approach her as a lover and some how made up my mind that she was destined for another. These circumstances being now removed, Why tarry, Jona.? "Go ahead." 
Wednesday April 8, 1840. I admire the Empress Josephine's char.acter, I mean that which was developed when she no longer was the wife of Napoleon. Such devotedness and steady affection are only to be looked for, I imagine, among women. How strongly she felt for the unworthy man in his fall! How generously she offered him her jewels and proposed going to him that she might comfort him in his downfall! 
Thursday April 9, 1840. Letitia Bonaparte, the Emperor's mother, was a truly noble woman . She possessed all the greatness of mind of her son. That Bona. family was an interesting group --both in their greatness and misfortunes. 
Friday April 10, 1840. A good intellect and good morals will not make a man passable in manners. Some literary men are the awkwardest clowns which one sees in company and what is more, although possessing good sense in every other [way?], they are fools in their intercourse. I have been bored 3 hours at a time by some of these que[e]r fellows and been obliged to carry on the whole talk. I have hinted that I was engaged --looked at my watch --turned in my seat --looked out of the window, but my visitors were as numb as a stone. They could see no impropriety in using a man's time as long as they pleased. Oh base [rare?] animals! They should learn a little good manners among all their other gettings. They might well afford to exchange a part of their Latin and Greek for it. 

Saturday April 11, 1840. I insist that the influence of our young clergymen is very much lessened for want of politeness. Episcopalians only cultivate this. Their priests must be gentlemen. have seen the ministers of other denom[inations], on the contrary, who thought it a virtue to be rough in their manners and coarse in talk --these they called plainness and simplicity, a contempt for the world. 
Sunday April 12, 1840. I know of no denomination of Christians which is identified so much with a political party as the Catholic. To a man they vote for Van Buren. Quare? Is there anything in the measures of his government consonant with their religious belief, or is there a secret understanding between the leaders of the Church and the Loco-Foco party by which mutual aid shall be given? I do not say that it is so --there seems something unaccountable in it, however. 
Monday April 13, 1840 We may say what we please and, after all, there is something in birth and rank which gives a greater nobleness to one's feelings and actions. Is there nothing in the long line of illustrious ancestors to inspire one with lofty feelings and a spirit of emulation? Would he not feel impelled to transmit the name untarnished to posterity? Would he not fear to degrade his rank by meaness? I contend that there is something in all these peculiarly favorable to magni[a]nimity. Some circumstances of hereditary greatness, however, oppose the attainment of true greatness of mind and souls. The enticements of pleasure, the means for gratifying which are usually at hand; slothfulness in living upon their an.cestors fame and fortune without any ambition to add to the common stock: are not these obstacles in the way of a young man's advancement? True nobleness of heart is so rare and exalted a virtue that, wherever seen, it commands respect. Whatever conduces to it should not be despised. 
Tuesday April 14, 1840. The Linn[a]ean Society of London possesses the Herbaria of Linneus and Sir J. E. Smith. Not long ago the East India Company presented to the same Society an herbariun of plants from India growing between long[itude] 73 and14 E. and lat[itude] 32 North to the Equator. It included 1300 gen[era], more than 8000 sp[ecies] and amounted in duplicates to 70,000 specimens. 

Wednesday April 15, 1840. Silas Wright says the great cry of the Whigs for a change in the government reminds him of an anecdote. A gentleman called for breakfast at a country tavern; after his first cup the Landlady apologised and said: "I forgot, sir, to ask you whether you would have tea or coffee. 11 To which he replied, 11lf that was coffee, madam, which I just drank I will now take tea, or if that was tea I will thank you for a cup of coffee.11 
Thursday April 16, 1840. Dryden has written a good 11Essay on Dramatic Poesy," which [it] is well worth one's time to read -.especially his remarks on Shakespeare. Johnson says they are inimitable. Read also Sir Philip Sidney's "Defence of Poesy". 
Friday April 17, 1840. Col. Jack Bowers, Cooperstown, from all accounts is an unfailing wit --69 years of age yet is sprightly as a young man and never spends a day without doz[s?]ing of some kind. In the war he was a federalist --was put up for Congress and was run out by the informality of some returns; was nevertheless determined to go. His opponent was sick, and his tenant says he hired him to stay at home the first session and went on to Washington and was admitted to take his seat, no one appearing to contest it, his opponents' papers by some means miscarrying and not á appearing till the close of the session. He laughs much about his 
being Congressman and the trick which he contrived to get there. 
Saturday April 18, 1840. To remember which are the positive and which the negative members of a series of Zinc and Copper plates, take the two words "Zip Coon": the first letter "Z" for Zinc, the last "p11 for positive; 2d --first letter C for Copper, second n for negative. 
Sunday April 19, 1840. I do not think with some men that no true and lasting happiness can exist in their marriage state when one or both the parties are not religious, yet it is without doubt a great drawback. We cannot banish the future from our minds. Will it not enhance the present if our future felicity is founded on strong and unwavering faith. Will our love not seem purer which we hope to perfect in heaven? 
Monday April 20, 1840. In Gulph of Mexico there is but a single daily tide; at Galveston it rises from 2 ft. to 2 1/2 ft. (Andrew Yates Esqr.) 

Tuesday April 21, 1840. Cobbett's "Advice to Young Men" is an entertaining book --sprightly, full of personal anecdote and Egoity. His humor will atone for many faults. There is a point to his writings, better by far than Dr. Alcott's on the same subject; he writes like a prudish old maid, neither soul nor pith in his book, he swims but never dives. 
Wednesday April 22, 1840. L. and E. Phil. Mag. and Jour. of Science, best scientific Jour, published --containes the combined wisdom of the Brit. Phil. --learned, very learned work..
Thursday April 23, 1840. 
Learned Societies in London Royal Society = R.S. Geological Soc.= G.S. Linnean Soc.= L.S. ZoologicalSoc.::::Z.S. Entomological Soc.=E.S. á Antiquarian Soc.= S.A. Horticultural Soc.= H.S. Royal Acad. = R.A. 
Friday April 24, 1840. Scientific Journals. 
Annals of Schweigger-Leidel  L.& E. Phil. Mag. & Jour. of Science  
Journal de Chimie Medicale  Journal de Pharmacie Bibliotheque  
Univ.  
Annales de Chimi et de Phys.  á Annales de Chimie  
Annales des Mines.  The Lancet.  
Saturday April 25, 1840.  

Bulletin Scientiflque.(Petersbg.) Land. Jour. Arts & Sciences 
i Annalen der Pharmacie Mechanic's Magazine 
,nd. Mining 
Journal 
de Poggendorfk Mining Review L'Institut Athenaeum @Journal fur prat. Chim. @Journal fur Praktische chemie. *Poggendorf's "Annalen der Phy-(Annals of Elec.Mag. & Chem.) sik und der Chemie". (Land. by Wm. Sturgeon) Scientific Memoirs. Edited +Leibig's "Journal der Chemie by Richd. Taylor F.R.S.Lond. und Pharmacie." 
Silliman's Journal of Arts & Journal of the Franklin Inst. Sciences. 

Sunday April 26, 1840. On what of all earthis institutions can we write "unchangeable"? Government? Kingdoms? Empires? Science? Literature? Creeds? Nay! creeds are not without changes and revolutions. Pure religion passes thro' all time the same, altho' her outward habiliaments may be various. Man may vary them but never the other. 
Monday April 27, 1840. Baumgartner's Zeitschrift The Repertory of Patent Inventions (Lond.) Zoological Journal (Lond.) Annali Delle Scienze &c (Padua) 
180 Polytechnic Journal Register of Arts, and Journal of Pat-Gilbert's Annalen der Physik ent Intentions (Lond.) Luke Hebert Editor. Repertory of the Arts & Sciences Asiatic Journal, London. Monthly Chronicle -Gentleman's Magazine -do. --London Archiv fur Naturgeschichte Editor Mag. of Nat. History Lond. Cond. by Edward Weigmann. Charlesworth. 
Tuesday April 28, 1840. Reviews & Literary Magazines, & Rellgions[Religious?] @London Quarterly Review Blackwood's 
Magazine /\foreign -" -" -The Metropolitan +Edinburgh Review 
Bentley's Miscellany. -Ainsworth Ed. *Westminster -"-Biblical Repository North American -"-Littell's Museum New York -" -The Knickerbocker Christian -" -India Review Fred. Corbyn Ed. 
Wednesday April 29, 1840. Dublin University Magazine The British & Foreign Review and The British and Foreign Medical European Quarterly Journal **Review and Quarterly Journal of A Fraser's Magazine Practical Medicine The world of Fashion Southern Literary Messenger,White Hunt's Merchant's Magazine Biblical Repertory and Princeton and Commercial Review. (N.Y.) Review Editor Prof. Hodge Revue Encyclopedique one of the Principal literary Journals of Paris. 
Thursday April 30, 1840. American Eclectic. Editors London Educational Magazine Absolam Peters. D.D. and Editor. William Martin. S.B. Treat. (New-York.) American Quarterly Register Tait's Eden Mag. an organ of the Editors 
B.B. Edwards & W. Cogswell. radical and republican feeling 
Litteraturblatt or Literary Journal of Scotland. _______ F.d. Wolfgang Menzel author of "German Literature". 
Friday May 1, 1840. Editors and principal contributors to some of the Reviews on the foregoing page .. Edited by S.G. Lockhart Esqr. 

Principal contributors: Robert Southey Esqr. Capt. Basil Hall R.N. John Barrow Esq. Sir Francis Head. Bart. H. Taylor Esqr. author of "Philip Van Artevelde." Rev. Henry H. Millman. I. Wilson Cro[c]ker A. Hayward Esqr &c English Circulation 9000. 
Saturday May 2, 1840. +Edited by Francis Napier. Principal Contributors, Lord Brougham, Rt. Hon. T. B. Macauley Secretary at War. *Edited by Mr. Mills. Principal Contributors: Dr. Bowring M.P. Albany Foublaugue[?] Esqr. Mr Roebuck M.P. Dr. Southwood Smith, Charles Buller Esqr M.P. Mr Mill. Sir W. Molesworth, Thomas Carlyle Esqr Miss Martineau &c. 
Sunday May 3d 1840 These Sabbath schools are raising up a genera.tion mightier in the scriptures than their fathers have been. Twenty or 30 years from this the Minister of the gospel will not be what he now is. His order of talent must be higher. 
Monday May 4, 1840. **Edited by Dr Worthington. Principal Contributors, Thomas Carlyle Esqr. Dr Bowring, Robert Southey Esqr **Edited by John Kemble Esqr. Principal Contributors: Mr Seargent Talfourd Esqr M.P. Rt. Hon. R.M. Theil M.P. Mr. Beaumont M.P. Mr Charles Buller M.P. 
Tuesday May 5, 1840. **Edited by John Forbes M.D. F.R.S. &c &c AEdited by Dr. Maginn. Principal Contributors L. Crofton-Croker Esqr. Mr Mahoney ("Father Prout") J.A. Herand Esqr. Lady Morgan, Hon. Mrs. Norton Mrs. L.C. Hall, Lady Blessington, D'Israeli M.P. author of "Vivian Grey" &c &c. 
Wednesday May 6, 1840. Of the preceeding eminent names Thos. Babington Macauley is author of "Essay on Milton," Edin. Rev.9 (admirable). He was Judge at Calcutta, a leading M.P. from Eden, and is the Sec. of the War Department, associate of Lord Melbourne. His cheif merit is his literary talents--read his essays in Edin. Rev. from 1825 to 1837. 
Thursday May 7, 1840 "Mason's & Dixon's Line" is often spoken of, but few know what[it] is. It is the boundary between Maryland and Pennsylvania as run by Messrs. Mason and Dixon. 
Friday May 8, 1840. By "The Madison Papers" we learn that in '82 a bank, the root of the much talked-of U.S. [Bank] was started, Robert 

Morris, Superintendant of Finance at that time, being at the head of the undertaking. He represented to Cong[ress] that such a bank would very much help the doing of the national business, and they promised to grant a charter or something equivalent. When the stock-holders applied for the promised countenance, Cong[ress] said it [could?] not charter such a body but instead ... 
Saturday May 9, 1840 .... recommended to each of the colonies that they should charter it with the exclusive right, while the war lasted, of putting out paper-money. The states had hitherto made emissions of paper which was much depreciated and thereby hurt the common currency of the country. I suppose the above bank was the old Bank of North-America, Phil[adelphia]. 
Sunday May 10 1840. How can the world be enlightened? Religion alone will not do it; unaided it breeds superstition and enthusiasm, deluging the world in blood. If it can, why was the pure gospel, scattered over the whole earth by Jesus and his disciples, choked and smothered till it was well nigh dead? In place of the meek and lamblike doctrine, sprung up beasts memberless and headless till one greater than all swallowed all. Education must walk hand in hand of [with?] rel{igion]. Never must they go asunder. 
Monday May 11 1840 All men in á our nation speak of the heartburnings between North and South as a new thing. Let them read, and the fact will appear: that the time has never been when Cong[ress] has not been split widely in 2 fiercely contending factions. This is our Nation's bane. 
Tuesday May 12, 1840. For 4/ I bought a thick pamphlet -."Chartism" by Thomas Carlyle. There's wonder and magic too in that man's writings. They are out of the common track and manner. Read 6 pages and you hate him, SO and you are charmed. As little as criticism does of good, for my own pleasure ... 
Wednesday May 13, 1940 ... .let me write my thoughts on him. He wrote "French Revolution" and "Sartor Resartus" and something more. His ***** thought ***** is condensed into narrowest compass, his ideas are compressed with wonderful closeness. What vivid, burning figures he sometimes draws which ... 

Thursday May 14, 1840 ... .like a great seal stamp his idea deep into the mind! Am I not right? His views ate wide, deep and far.reaching. He handles Chartism as a skilful workman, 
Now as to language, we sometimes are told that [it] is the mere drapery or garment of thought --thought is the thing, but ... 
Friday May 15, 1840 ... .let us not affect disregard to dress. Peoples' opinions are greatly built upon it, even the best of men's. Carlyle's style is powerful; rude, rough, harsh, bungling it often is, but strong nevertheless. Is there affectation or not in him? He is Saxon, pure Saxon, the rude strong blessed Saxon throughout. He coins new words or compounds ... Saturday May 16, 1840 .... them or revives obsolete [words] , but they are still Saxon, short, pithy, meaning Saxon words. Every sentence has a point. Piquant. His ending sentences with "that," "this, " &c. is hard, constrain'd, stiff. They are stiff often and end with subject and the verb, all the other parts going before and not with bad effect --a characteristic. 
Sunday May 17, 1840. Alas! Alas! how few are the offerings which we bring Sunday to God's holy altar on his holy-day! Is this day not the Sun-of-rest? We stop, 'tis true, but we do not unlade our beasts, we lay aside none of our every-day cares and harasing concerns. We cannot be said to "put up," to rest and refresh ourselves, wearily "bait" our horses. How can we reach the journeys in such way? 
Monday May 18, 1840. Here I scratch a hasty thought now and then unread and undigested -not for another's: eye but my own amusement and after reading. If I say of some men harsh things they are not to their detriment --more [rarer?] than my thoughts. Openly I speak to no man's hurt. This is my thinking-book. No one may open it, as I do not my mind. 
Tuesday May 19, 1840. If I say what I think to myself with whom I can commune most freely and honestly, how many of those whom afar off I tho't gods would dwindle into mere men --mere flesh and blood like myself? 
Wednesday May 20, 1840. Is he not a great man? So he is accounted and most men will die of that opinion. Sure I will not say ought to the contrary although I think most stubbornly otherwise. Perhaps this is too strongly said, let me explain. _______ knows noth.
90D 
ing of books, nothing of literature, less of science; he is therefore not great in any sense of these. How came .... 
Thursday May 21, 1840 .... he then by a name ringing wide? Hence. He has or had a fine imagination, he wrote beautiful sermons, he was called eloquent and poured out a soft, plaintive melodious music which enchanted and captivated the ear. I cannot think, from what I have heard ... 
Friday May 22, 1840 .¥.. that he ever was a deep thinker, a profound Theologian or master-spirit, ... 
Saturday May 23, 1840 .... a giant mind, never. But put him on a funeral sermon and none could sooner draw tears. 11He preaches always from the Charnel-house" as Mr. Benj. Mumford once 
remarked.  
Such then I think  are his talents  as a preacher.  He must  have  
been mere surface deep (I addresses and judge. His _ hope _____ I __ am ____  mistaken) sermon  but read his is beautifully  

eloquent. Having no book learning, what has he? Man-learning --or as it ls called a "Knowledge of human nature." He is wonderfully skilful in managing both men and boys. How? never by leading, but by guiding them. 
Sunday, May 24, 1840. Never by open manly display of his sentiments --never by telling them "do this" or "do that" but by manoevouring, by pulling wires, by crawling upon his belly, by giving half to gain half, by a little craft and cunning. 
Monday, May 25, 1840. I cannot respect the [the word has been erased] man notwithstanding all his virtues and he has many. Your cunning man is my eye-sore; heaven remove me from such a talent. Lectures on matters and thing appertaining to common affairs of life are considered invaluable. They make practical men, for which our ________ are some noted. In man [the main?] I say then the ____ is 
learned in books not. 
Tuesday May 26, 1840. He has been thought a financier. Here, however, his character most lamentably suffers. Let no christian, no noble-hearted man ever covet the reputation of a cunning bargainer. I had rather be a poor cheated gull than such a man. Yet the __ has such esteem among all, even the common people. Speaking of his bargains they wink knowingly and thrust the tongue ... 
Wednesday May 27, 1840 ... .into the cheek. The whole immense funds of the -----~ have been heretofore trusted to [his?] care, has he vested them well? Here again common report damns him. Wrongfully perhaps. Some say he spends them upon himself. I think it not possible. Yet from all my observation ... 
Thursday May 28, 1840 ... .I think him a very bad financier. I do not think that [he] expends money well, honestly nevertheless. The children of _______ are all most wonderfully destitute of both honor and honesty. This is none of my own opinion merely. Where they are known best they are hated, despised most. Yet-of these poor fellows, useless drones, __ _ has foisted on to ____ ... 
Friday May 29, 1840 .... and given salaries therefrom to his disgrace. So I think. To the detriment of _______ , I know. 
[The three following pages are left blank and no dated entries occur until almost four months later. They are preceded by a single note on an otherwise blank page. Gap from May 29 to September 20.] 
Prof. Seeback of Berlin discovered Thermo-Electricity in 1832. Prof. Oersted of Copenhagen, Electromagnetism. 
[Sunday] September 20, 1840 .. Cotidal = high water at the same time. K.C.B.= F.T.C.D. = M.R.I.A. = Torpedinal = belonging to the torpedo. 
Monday September 21, 1840. "Algebra was called or viewed as a universal Arithmetic, only because the laws of its changes were identical with those of Arithmetic and because it thereby became in fact a part of the process of finding the solution of an Arith[metical] prob[lems]." 
Tuesday September 22, 1840. 
K.C.H.= K.H.= Hon. M.Y.P.S. = D.C.L. Doctor Civil law? M.R.C.L. = 
Wednesday September 23, 1840. Jovicentric = Having Jupiter for a centre (like geocentric). K.T. = Electrode = Pole. A new term introduced by Dr. Farraday 
Thursday September 24, 1840. Eminent living Philosophers: in Anatomy & Physgy. Meteorology 

Meckel (Halle) Prof. Forbes (Nat. Phil. Edin.) John Muller Prof. Phys. (Bonn) Sir C. Bell Roget Prout AT. Thompson Dr. Faville Dunglinson Phila. Physiology. Horner Phila. Spec. An. Mussey Ohio Surgery 
Hydraulics & Engineering Medicine Generally Mr. G. Rennie Beck. Med. Jurisprudence Brunel Dewees Prac. of Phys. Phila. Bromah Bigelow Mat. Medica. -Phila. Challis 
Friday September 25, 1840. Mathematics. Gauss ( Gottengen) Peacock Young (London) 
T.S.Davies Esqr. 
C.F.A Jacob's 
Prof. Baden Powel ( Geom. Oxy.) Hasler Prof. Moseley Nat. Phil. King's 
Coll. London. 
Chemistry 
Eminent men in 
Electricity Prof. Faraday ( Chem. R. Inst.) Sturgeon Hausteen Prof. Gauss. Got. Ter. Mag. 
Oersted ( of Copenhagen) 
Dr. Ritchie Prof.(London) R. Inst. Sarni. H. Christie Esqr. Ampere. Maj. Sabine 
W. Snow Harris Prof. Schonbein. (Basle) Ohm. Prof. Henry. Princeton N.J. Robert Ware Fox (Elec.in mines) 
Zoology 
Prof. J. F. Daniell KingsColl. London) Dr. Roget Dr. Clark Prof. Chem. Maris. Coll. Aberdeen. G. B. Lowerby 
Fourier ( on Heat) Prof. Hess St. Petersburgh. Dalton. Rich. Phillips Analyti (Chem) Prof. Graham, Glas. Un. 
Dr. Ure. Dr. Dauberry Prof. Oxford Mitscherlich (Berlin) De Blainville Geoffroy-Saint-Hilaire 
J.E. Gray. Esqr I.R.S. 
Agassiz Neufchatel Broderip Westwood Entom. 

Prof. Apjohn Chem. Roy.Coll. Surgeon.Dublin) J. Gould. Ornith .. Dr. Dr. Hare. Dr. John Davy. Dr. Richardson J.F.W.Johnston Berthier Gay-Lussac Dobereiner Wohler Got Dr. J. Liebig Prof.Chem. Un. Giessen 
H. Rose. Berlin {Nobili} {Melloni} (heat) dead Stromeyer Got Becquerel -Berzelius Dr. C. Schafhaeu tl (Muni ch) 
Saturday September 26, 1840. Leading Philosophers of this day in Optics á Astronomy Sir David Brewster Sir J.F.W. Hershel R. Potter jun. 
Esqr Prof. G.B. Airy Cam. Un. 
Encke (Berlin) Bessel (Konigsberg) Lubbock (on tides) 
T. Henderson Ast. cape G.H. James Dunlop Ast. Paramatta Francis Bailey V.P.R.S. 
Prof. Wm. R. Hamilton (astron.) Dublin Mrs. Somerville Robert Snow Esqr. 
Prof. Schumacher Pond Astron. Royal 
M. Struve of Observatory of Dorpat. Geology ------& Mingy. Botany Dela Beche. McCulloch Lindley 
Hibbert Prof. Lyell (Kings Coll. Lond.)Allan Loudon Murchison. Greenough. Brown L.L.D. Prof. Miller Miner. Cam. Prof. Sedg[e]wick. Haidinger De Candolle 
Mantell. Torrey Dr. Buckland Prof. Un. Ox. Hooker Prof. 
Henslow Prof. Rev. W.D. Conybeare. Moles. Prof. J. Meyer Berlin Whewell (Pel. & Tut. Cam.) Mohl, De-Petit Thouars. Prof. J. Phillips Leonard Horner Eudes-Deslongchamps. Kings. Coll. Lond Burignimast. Geo Fairholme Esqr. Corda. Giron de Brizareingues Dr. Pitton. Prof. Gustave Rose Dutochet, Mirbel, Link Hitchcock Leonhardt (Heidelberg) 

Hausmarm (Gettenberg) 
Desnoyers} (France) 
Deshayes} 
Jameson (Scotland) 
Sunday September 27, 1840. I have lived 27 years and been prospered in all my doings. My cup .has run over with fulness. No good thing has been withholden from me --all my plans have been fulfilled. My health has been precious in the sight of the Lord. All things more than I have deserved have been given me --all I mean, which can conduce to my comfort and happiness. My fortune and success have not been brilliant --but steady and advancing. I have everything to make me thankful --nothing to repine over --having a competency, a hope of heaven, "Lord," dearest of all, --earthfy friends --what need I more? 
Monday September 28, 1840. Benj. Mumford, a testy old gentleman of the city. Has good sense, is profane and rough at times although a finished gentleman when he pleases. He says the shop-keepers in town keep their accounts by double entry, i.e. charge twice as much as they sell and carry in double bills. 
A Mr. Thompson sued him for a butchers bill. The Constable presented the summons but Mr. M. says: "Now wouldn't it be better for Mr. T. to bring his accounts and settle with me amicably"? 0 yes! answers the Constable. Next day Mr. T. comes down into his garden. "Good morning Mr. M.[I] brought that little account." Mr. M. looked at him with an eye of vengeance for a moment and raising his cane, "You dam'd scoundrel, if you dont get right down here on the ground and acknowledge that I have paid you 3 times I'll kill you!" Thompson down on his marrow bones and almost frightened out of his wits says, "'Oh no! Mr. M. You haven't paid it but twice"!! 
Union College Tuesday September 29, 1840. Dean Swift was a man of great wit and little grace. (J. P.) 
Wednesday September 30, 1840. "Boz," alias Dickens, is more popular than any author since Scott. He describes low and middle life to perfection. He surpasses Smollett in everything except impurity of sentiment. He is young and does not equal Feilding, who plotted better than any man living. I mean that the plan of his stories is inimitable; they are not weakened by any thing useless; every brace and stud helps to sustain the framework. 

Thursday Octoberl, 1840. All politics. no religion nor reason: conventions, mass meetings, speeches, election returns, and glorifications. These are what turn all men's heads. The people meet now in bodies of 1000s and 10,000s to show their patriotism. Party not principles rule the public mind. Good nature and order, however, are seen among all these mighty gatherings. This is a good sign. 
Fri.day October 2, 1840. Concholo[g]y --a delightful branch of Nat. His. Prof. Wyatt has sent a case of these to the college from Phila. consisting of 115 Gen[era] and 430 Species. A good beginning for a cabinet. This Wyatt is pretty representative of John Bull --being fat, good natured and a little vain --withal generous, open-hearted and a pleasant companion for an hour--nay more. 
Utica Saturday October 3, 1840. At Utica? What for? To see Lord -the prettiest, the best_______ in all the world. Rained like Noah's flood all day which prevented an expedition to Trenton Falls. May it rain (if it pleases) when I visit L[ord]. Souls commune as happily, lips kiss as sweetly, eyes sparkle as brightly, hearts throb as happily in foul as in fair weather. Kisses, they tell me, should [be used?] sparingly lest they cloy. Nonsense! I eschew all such heresy. 
Sunday At Utica October 4, 1840. Happiness is not to be attained without some pain. Two sleepless nights, 2 days in paradise, cheap bought 
Poor Mr. Fowler. He is next door to despair, having lost his wife. --a picture of wo[e]. A man of fine sensibilities, whom pain racks with keen torture. God bless the poor man. No one else can comfort him. He preached [A. M. ?] . 
Bethel Church P.M. Mr. Bright preached -his sermons are good practical exhortations, that is all. Perhaps enough. He never will excel as a minister, he may as a pastor. He went from a bookstore to the pulpit, is lovely and amiable in his character. Tonight I leave Lord -.1 go as Adam having paradise. Heaven bless Lord, give Lord a long and happy life, happy children, happy husband, happy home and happy eternity. Amen, Amen. 
U[nion] C[ollege] 

Monday October 5, 1840. Three hours sleep in 3 nights -too much for human nature. Head aches, back aches, stomach nauseous. Whew! Lord's a witch to bother me so. 
These "new light" men --ministers, I mean --do sometimes, they say, split churches and congregations. Mr. P. of Hartford, Conn. utterly abhorred them, especially Rev. Mr. F. who had caused some heartburnings to arise among his own people. Mr. P. went to the consoclation of ministers and elders and was called upon for a statement of the religious affairs of his flock. He arose and said, "Brethren, I have labored with my people these many years. My labours were blessed, and the church harmonious and happy. Now things are changed. Mr. F. has come among us, he has preached his "new school" doctrines, he has split my church and I wish he was in Hell!" What! What! Bro. P. "I say -I wish he was in Hell!" 
Bro P. What can you mean? "Why I mean what I say, I wish he was in Hell! for I verily believe he would break that up too" !! 
Tuesday October 6, 1840. Be careful of anothers' reputation especially of your friend's. The tongue is the most unruly member of the whole body, and often runs away with mens brains. 
Be careful, I say, Jona. 
I had rather be good than rich, honest than honorable (popular sense). Goodness of heart will in my estimation hide a multitude [of] deficiencies in intellect and education. Oh the luxury of a warm.hearted friend. 
Wednesday October 7, 1840. Every one has his beau ideal of a happy home. Mine would be far from the bustle of busy men. On some lake or river's bank, enshrouded in trees and peeping out upon the beau.tiful waters like a fair maiden from her latticed window. I would have a pretty garden, a snug little farm, my dear dear little Lord and a troup[e] of pretty, good children clinging to my knees. Oh the happiness of such a home. 
Thursday October 8 1840. "But why talk of happiness? it exists but in name upon earth. Heaven's her home." Must imagination and hope then be never exercised? Man forsooth must ever look upon the dark side of human life? and hope nor dream of ablest futurity in this life because his expectation and desires are never satisfied? I trust in God. I will Hope. Therefore, yes, with all my might for a long and happy life. The present shall not be darkened by gloomy fore.bodings of the future. "Sufficient unto the day" &c. My fancy is my castle builder. Why should it not permit me what I please? Whom does it harm if these pictures are improbable, unreal, airy nothings? 

Friday October 9, 1840. What's in a day? What's done? Nothing -.nothing indeed, mere nothing. 6 1/2 oclock, get up, dress in haste, wash in haste, run to prayers in haste and hear my recitation. Breakfast at 8 leisurely, smoke a pipe comfortably, think of Lord delightfully (Oh the dear one). Nine in my room --study a little, read a little, think less, do nothing ching a ling! ching a ling a ling! there goes the bell for 11 and recitation. Twelve out and at dinner, smoke, think, muse, dream as at breakfast, study, read, write &c. till 4, recitation over, run to P. 0. for a letter from Lord, and naughty Lord almost always disappoints me. Tea at 6, fumigate as usual, build castles &c., 7 in room, visit section, scold the boys (noisy ones), sit with Prof. Reed, smoke and chat, study, read, write to Lord (saucy, good for-------). Ten, go to bed and sleep. So good night. I go sleep. 
Saturday October 10,. 1840 The prettiest, most delicate present in the world ls a tasteful bunch of flowers. It delights the senses naturely[?] but the mind too, and is the highest compliment to the receiver.á It supposes him a lover of nature, a person of taste. This morning Lord is enjoying how much pleasure over a splendid boquet of flowers which I sent by railroad last night. It consisted of magnificent dahlias and sweet [*****], roses and other minor plants from Mr. Jackson's garden. Cruel Jack Frost! he has spoiled every thing that bloomed yesterday in one night; [in] one short night he he has visited every flower and blown his cold breath upon their delicate petals. Malicious little rascal! couldnt he spare a few unobtrusive little herbs that lift their heads scarce a foot above the earth, which hide beneath the lofty forrest tree? not one has the ruthless theif left us. Goodbye. 
After winter spring will come for you again ---you may then arise your drooping heads without fear. This indeed is [not] the least of Jack's rogueries --see how the forrests are dressed! What magic has he wrought there upon the green foliage! by his toutch they have assumed all the gorgeous colours of the rainbow and the sunset cloud --sad presage of death and returning desolation! 
One of the most glorious of Autumn's shortening days. How did I spend it? Alone -no, I mistake, a lover of nature is never alone when he walks abroad. He communes with everything, hears a language from trees, rocks and the placid waters. He cannot be solitary; at every step his feet are attended by little companions who strive to attract his notice and court his attention. 

Sunday October 10, 1840. Weather cold and rainy, sky dark and scowling, in perfect harmony with my feelings. My little stock of patience is run clean out and, were not my duty concerned, I would foreswear all connexion with churches forever. 
Have I no reason? They are ungrateful, unchristian, hard.hearted, yea cruel towards their pastors and return slander and backbiting for all their anxious labours. 
Ministers are the common target for the public to shoot at. Their sermons are criticized, not inwardly digested and daily practised; their little human failings are magnified and trumpeted, not carefully hidden by their brethren; yea their feelings are wounded in a thousand cruel ways by those very individuals who should be especially tender of them. We speak often of the frequent changes in the ministry: are not churches to blame for it? I say yes. 
Our own Minister, Mr. Sawyer, I verily believe has been driven off by the unkindness of the church who no more appreciate his talents and goodness than they see their own cruelty. 
His like we shall not see again this many a day. His failings were few --his virtues many. I say again I am out of all patience with our church. Heaven bless us and make us to know our Q1Y.!1 faults and not look so much to others. 
Nine oclock at night. Bishop Chase of Ohi(no), Illinois addressed the people of the Ep[iscopal] Church in behalf of the "Jubilee College." He has travelled a year soliciting funds to endow it with. One seldom sees a more patriarchal old man. Has a very imposing look --6 ft. and over long, full-faced, and wears even in the desk a class velvet cap a la John Knox in the pictures. More pleased with his appearance than with his sermon. His life is full of adventure. Has been 23 years in the western country --first Bishop of Ohio and founded Kenyon College, latter Bishop of Illinois. Success to the venerable man. 
Monday October 11, 1840 (facetus, sit-mihi, Betsa, comes, salibus dictisque) Qui sapit ambiguos fundere ab ore sonos. 
"Betsey, give me the man when all is done 
"That wisely knows to crack a joke and pun." The above lines addressed by Virgil to his familiar friend Queen Elizabeth should be deemed of sufficient authority both for the antiquity and dignity of the art of punning in these modern days of fruitful imagination, of a cheerful mind and elevated soul. But laying all discussions aside, I will illustrate the beauty and advantages of art by a few examples drawn from both antient and modern authority. 

After his conquest of Gaul, Caesar made Paris his head.quarters. Walking along the T[h]uileries one day he met a country fellow who had a hare swinging on a stick over his shoulder, and giving it a shake asked him whether it was his own hair or a periwig? 
At the battle of Phil[l]ippi, Pompey was badly wounded in the leg by a cannon ball. Whilst his surgeon was dressing it, he said to Manlius his Lieutenant that he would leave him his wound for a legacy. Whereupon Manlius answered that he should be sory to have such a leg as he. 
Tuesday October 12, 1840. Alexander the Great sent the following words to Oliver Cromwell challenging him to rhyme to them, "Hydrops, Necthycorax Thorax et Muscula Vervax." To which Cromwell replied by the next mail "Land-Tax, and Army-Tax, excise and General Fairfax." Napolean Bony-Part, knocking on the 31st of Feb. at the Crown Tavern door in the Strand, London, was answered by a servant from a window above that he could not let him in because it was fast-day and his Master and mistress were gone to church. "Hang your Master and Mistress," says Bony-Part, "cant they be content to fast, themselves, but they must make their doors fast"? 
Wednesday October 13, 1840. A certain politician (a Whig, of course) proposed that the Florida blood hounds since they would not hurt the Indians should be sent in pursuit of "Leg-Treasurers." "They can not track such animals," says another. Why? "Do you give it up? Because "Leg-Treasurers" leave no cent behind." 
The former Rector of St Georges Church, Schenectady (Mr. Smedes), in anticipation of Bishop Onderdonks yearly visit, shut up a number of hens to fatten. A few days, however, before his arrival they were stolen. To theá Rector who was relating his misfortune, the Bishop replied "You was mistaken in your cackleations." He is a great punner. 
Thursday October 14, 1840. A certain eminent man, no less authority than Dean Swift, has shown by many well-selected examples and sound arguments therefrom that all languages are derivable from the English. see Vol. 17 -18 Mo. Ed. In addition to his examples I add the following. 
Acropolis -from the English "A crop o'lice -because when the Scotch first settled Athens and built the Acropolis they were lousy. Their neighbors in derision therefore called their Courthouse "A crop o'lice." 

Aeacides, an eminent man and founder of an illustrious family. It was so often said of him "He has ideas" that in time he was called by no other name. The Greeks contracted it into Aeacides. 
Aeatus, a notorious cann[i]bal in the mountains of Thessaly, so called by the inhabitants who said after his death "he ate us": hence Aeatus!! 
Aedipsus, a noted Anabaptist of Germany of whom the people used to say "He dips us" in allusion to his frequent performance of that ceremony. Hence his name. 
AEello, a noted snuff-taking old woman of Greece who took so much of the "Scotch" that her skin became dry and yellow. Her neighbors called her old "yellow" or AEello." 
Ajax = Edge ax Albintimelium = All been to mill wi' 'em. 
Alcander = All Gander á 
Alcibiades = Also buy ideas 
Alexandria = All eggs and dry air 
Alexandrides = All eggs and dry days 
Aluntium = A luncheon 
Amantes = A man tease 
Ambryllis = Umbrellas 
Amazones = Amazin' Knees 
Amphipolis = Ham! poor fellows! 
Friday October 15, 1840. Ana-dy-omene = Any dry hominy? 
Anaxirhoe = An ax or hoe 
Anitorgis = Any torches? 
Antandros = Aunt Andrews 
Antenor= Aunt Hannah 
Archimedes= "Hark ye Maids!" 
Athenagoras = A thin nag or ass 
Aufldena = A' for dinner! 
Auser = Ah! sir 
Bacchus= Back house or Back us 
Bagophanes = Bag of hens 
Berenice = Berry nice eye (nigger) 
Bomilcar = Boy milk her! 
Bosphorus = Boys for us! 
Brundusium = Brown do see 'em! 
Canusium = Can you see 'em! 
Cassiopea = Guess I o'er-pay ye 
Cassotis = Guess who 'tis 
Catamenteles = Katy meant you less? 
Celedon =Cellar done? 
9Il 
Cephalus = See fellows! Clearidridas = Clear and dry days. Damascena = Damn a sinner! Decius ==D'ye see us? Deicoon = D'ye go on? Dictator= Dig 'tater? (nig[g]er) Elaver = He'll have her! Eleusis = He looses! Erycina = I resign her! Euboea = your beer! Eubotes = you beauties! Eucrate = you "crater"! Eumenides= you mean ideas? Eunomia = you know my air Eupator = you paid her? Eupeithes = you buy these? Euphrosyne = you froze your knee? Eurotas = you wrote us Euryclea = your eye clear? Eurydame = your rid o' me Eurydice = your rid I see. Eurygania = your again here Eurymede = your remedy Eurytis = you're right 'tis Eustolia = you stole here Eutaea =you Dear! Eutelidas = you tell I dare say 
No recitations after the morning. Political meeting in town. Whig mass meeting of the county. Speakers: Starr of N. Y. and Barnard of Albany. About 1500 present. Countrymen, citizens, men, women, boys, nig[g]ers, hucksters and peddlers of whom the last afforded me the most amusement by their everlasting "clack" to the gaping crowd; selling pins, needles, combs, safety chains, thread, buttons, breastplns, finger rings &c. "All for bare nothing" --"Yes much below the cost" --"Cant sell any more so"--11Going"! Going"!--"For 11 pence! 11 pence! 11 pence! 11 pence! 11 pence!" --"a fine silver safety chain! Come buy a chain, gentlemen, for your sweethearts if you want them to love you!" --"Who bids a shilling? Shilling! Shilling"! Shilling! Say no more! One shilling! and gone"! 
Saturday October16, 1840. October fifteenth one thousand eight hundred and forty. The Whigs held a meeting and Jonathan thought 

he would lay aside books (for which he's quite partial) to see in what numbers the people would marshall 
For Tippecanoes at 12 by the town clock. There met at the Courthouse an army of "gown, frock and bonnet" (My meaning you take?) --the ladies of Durip, and many young horseman with foot in the sturrip in best Sunday cloths and broad crimson sashes, swords, spurs, and chapeaus --you know what the "fash" is on occasions like this. 
The array of old carts too had done your eyes good. Some loaded with farmers, some loaded with wood. Full an hundred and fifty there were, I dare say, which made the folks gape and cry, "Lud-a-ma'cy." The bumpkins from Rotterdam, Charlton and Princetown, Nisk'yuna and Glenville, with others who rinse down their plain wholesome dinners with draughts of hard cider were there in such numbers --the Locos oft cry'd" Oh! Van Van, you're a used-up man." "Great Bodies Move Slow" --no adage more true as our knees could attest and our appetites too. "My dinner is cooling," says one who stood next me. "If I've stood here 1O minutes I vow it's been sixty." "Oddsbobs!" says another, "as sure's I'm a sinner" "they'll clear off the table and I'll lose my dinner" "Hold on!" quoth a third, "We'll all go hum soon." 
"Dant you see the flag coming and Mister Thompson?" Now all stand agog, attention's on tiptoe to see the brave banner and ladies that trip so eagerly forth. 
"Attention" is called. After 3 or 4 short bows to the ladies arranged on the steps of the Courthouse, John Sander's Esquire, attorney at law, their spokesman, with many a hem and a haw addressed the young "Tips" and gave them the banner, his prosy harangue, his grace and his manner. 
We pass by the procession and music of trumpets and drums which would have made you sick. Pray imagine at leisure. We whip our Pegasus to the "Stand" where the orators hope to amaze us with eloquence rare. 
Our muse more intent on a frolic 
and dreading long speeches as a cramp or the cholic 
Stands apart from the crowd and noisy confusion 
To make observations and also to muse on 
What's passing below. "Hard cider" enough to make the "york mill" turn "Cits": countrymen, nig[g]ers, men, women, and children. Hucksters, and Pedlars -.
"Hold! Hold! that's enough The list is too long" 
Cries my Muse in a huff, 
Of wonders seen here to be writ in a poem 

So make your best bow and let us go home." 
Sunday October! 7, 1840. Mr. Isaac Dureya preached in the Bap[tist] Church for us. Mr. S. is about to leave --is now preparing to leave. Vexation! Vexation! 
Monday October 18, 1840. Matrimonial. A Matrimonial Ladder by 
which poor unmarried Happiness.  Ladder sinners  may cling to conjugal  
[Drawing]  
Some additional  spokes might have been  put in here, but if those  

here exhibited are laid firmly hold QL.the candidate for Mat. felicity need have no fears of the result. 
Tuesday October19, 1840. Horace, a poor drunken latin poetaster! who had the delerium tremens or "horrors" so often that he came to be called Horace which is only a corruption of the English word "Horrors"! á 
Abaddon, so vile a fellow that he was called "A bad "one" or 
Abaddon as it is now written. Alamelech = A lame leg Japhet = chafe it Antiochis = Aunty! 0 Kiss! Azaliah = He's a liar B_laam = Bail him Beelzebub = Bill! see bub Belshazzar= Bill! she has her. Bethesda = By Thursday Bukki = "Buck eye" Eliazar = I lay azy! (Irish) Go-pherwood = Go for wood! Hivites = He flgh ts Holofernes = Hollow furnace Hosea = Who see her Isaac= Eyes ake [ache?] Isaiah = I see her Lucifer = Louisa! Cipher Lystra = Le's try! 
Wednesday October 21, 1840. A Matrimonial Gridiron to roast poor fools on who rush into hasty marriages. 
914 
[Put Gridiron Here] 
Thursday October 22, 1840. 
[Cross readings] 
Declarations of love have risen 50 pr .. ct. since Jan. --the happy effect of the Sub Treasury and the war between England and China, which by the last advices from Hudson's Bay was blown up killing all on board. 
The last Election news from Ohio. Ali Mahamet Pacha of Egypt, married on Tuesday eve. to Fanny Wright of Tammany Hall memory. Tobacco is looking for a revival of the opium trade. 
Friday October 23, 1840. Buxton's project for stopping the slave trade has made some noise in Eng. of late. Its leading principles are these: Remedy 1st, An increase of the preventive force on the coast of Africa; 2nd, Treaties with all the tribes engaged in the trade; á 3rd, Encouragement of lawful commerce; 4th, Promotion of Agriculture; 5th Moral and Religious instruction. 
I somewhat doubt the efficiency of Mr. Fawell Buxton's plan. So long as there is no unanimity among the nations in put[t]ing down this traffic and so long as there is a market for slaves, so long [will] the capidity of individuals devise ways to smuggle out the poor Africans, in spite of a blockade. The burthen of the expense has thus far rested upon Britain. She, almost alone, has lined the court with her men-of-war and yet the trade has increased two-fold. Treaties with the native cheifs will be useless. They are deceitful and will be bound only by interest. Conscience they have none. 
Saturday October 24, 1840. We have a single case of nervous excitement in College. A member of the Senior Class, Strong from Long Island, was taken with fits a day or 2 since and has been brought to deaths door. It is said they were brought on entirely by anxiety of mind. At a meeting of his class for some unimportant business, I dont know what, he said something a little offensive to the majority and they hissed him. The disgrace, as he thought it, so affected his mind that he was thrown into a most alarming epilepsy an hour or 2 after, from which he has not as yet recovered. Fit after fit have followed and the physician fears they will end in a brain fever or idiocy. 

Sunday October 25, 1840. If I were a minister of the Gospel, I should wish to settle for life. This moving from place to [place] could upset me entirely. What reason can there be for such frequent changes? Two reasons, doubtless: one with the people and the other with the minister. Congregations are fastidious, fault-finding and fickle in their dispositions; they are backbitters, too often, and not jealous of their pastors character and interests. They are unsympathising, and hence he soon finds his intercourse unpleasant, his usefulness at an end. 
Then again the pastor may get uneasy without any of the above reasons. His sermons may be preached out and [he] be too lazy to write fast enough for weekly services; a better salary or a larger and more respectable congregation may entice him; and, feeling his interest identified with no particular church, he pulls up stakes and is off. The Lord has called him forsooth to labour in another part of his vineyard! Out upon such ministers and people! They are not to be tolerated. 
Monday October 26, 1840. Snow fell last night to the depth of 2 in. Prayers in Chapel have not been said since Friday. The noise of passing by young Strong's room is injurious to him. 
Held [recitation] this morning in Laboratory. 
Saturday last an Englishman was sentenced to be hung for the murder of a woman in Glenville. A hardened wretch --said he would kill 20 more under like circumstances if he could get a chance! His sentence is to be executed on 17th Dec. Cannot but think that capital punishments are contrary to the spirit of the New Testament. Solitary confinement and hard labour for life should be substituted. The time will come, I think, when the public will be enlightened on this point and demand the repeal of such sanguinary laws. 
Tuesday October 27, 1840. A letter from "Lord" is like water to the thirsty soul --a little winged messenger of love, a mis[s]ile shot from the surest bow, which pierces the heart. Let lovers beware of one thing, however, that they do not love each other better than their Maker. Heaven will not smile with approbation upon such devotion. May God grant that this be not our fatal offence, and that our happiness be long and all ascribed to him. 
Wednesday October 28, 1840. The very devil seems to be let loose in New York among politicians; as the time of Election draws near their anxiety increase[s] in regard to the success of their respective parties and every artifice is used which can influence a voter. 
916 
The leaders of the administration party in the city of N. Y. have just played their "last card," as it is called. It has been darkly hinted by their presses for some weeks that a development would be made which would throw consternation among the "Whigs." The bubble has now burst. Certain fellows have been brought before certain Locofoco officers in N. Y. and testified that the Whigs imported voters in 1838 from Philadelphia. The affidavits most to the point are founded on mere hearsay, and if true would implicate some of the best men in the city. 
One party cries fraud! fraud! against the Whigs and they cry conspiracy! conspiracy! in return. Why, say they, has such a charge been suffered to rest in silence for 2 years and now brought just before an important election? Why are the most trustworthy and honorable men defamed on the testimony of vile fellows without confronting their accusers? Why was this all kept secret till fully concocted and then brought out without giving the accused an opportunity of clearing themselves? Why were handbills published in Boston even before the plot was brought to light in N. Y. stating that Gov. Seward was arrested and that Mr. Grinnell had absconded? Why has the country been flooded with these announcements even in advance of the developments in N. Y. but that it might have a bearing upon the approaching election? 
The parties accused have solemnly protested against these proce[e]dures and disclaimed any participation in or knowledge of the alle[d]ged frauds. So it goes. 
Thursday October 29, 1840. The present political contest, I presume, has never been equalled in this country. It is astonishing to see the movements of the people. When were such masses of men ever seen assembled together before from all parts of a great country? What occasion ever before called out the universal talent of our great men in speeches and resolutions? We have heard of nothing for the last 6 mos. but speeches and songs and mass meetings of 100,000 and downwards. The people are determined to put out of power an administration of misguided, extravagant and corrupt men. It will be done in one week from this at the ballot boxes. Our Executive is too strong. The Pres[ident] should serve but 4 years. It is dangerous when by patronage and other means the Pres. can entrench himself so strongly within his office that nothing but a mighty convulsion of the country will be able to push him out. 
Friday October 30, 1840. I know of nothing which contributes to make a man truly such, more than a delicacy of feeling towards 
917 
others, a tenderness of conscience and strict honesty. These ele.ments of character will weigh down all others. Exalted intellect may command our respect but these [win?] our love and veneration. They give us the only true examples of the sublime in morals. One of the candidates for Gov. in Massachusets is the Hon. John Davis, who is called by way of distinction "Honest John Davis." He is said to deserve the tittle. Upon my word I had rather be called "Honest John" than President John: -no tittle would I covet before that of an honest man. Honesty is closely allied to Honor and can not exist apart, but the latter requires also a certain degree of refinement and delicacy. May Heaven grant me these virtues and prevent interest from ever swerving me from the path of Honor and Honesty! 
Saturday October 31, 1840. It is generally better to yield than to 
contend. 
More is gained in the long run by frankness than by cunning. What are called your shrewd, sharp men are the most despicable race of animals in the world. They are mere snakes in the grass. They lie in ambush to seize their prey and fear an honorable encounter face to face. They overreach and circumvent unwary victims, even those who would be unequal to the conflict upon open terms. They are spiders who spread nets and retire to their dens to watch the success of their devices. What shall we say of such men? Are they not the most insufferable pests of a well-regulated and honest community? 
Sunday November 1, 1840. My religion is a threadbare garment -.my love to God is like a pale and sickly plant which has been excluded from the sight of the sun and the rains of heaven. Religion should be a habit as well as an impulse of the heart. It should be interwoven so closely with all our acts and duties as never to be lost. 
I like to hear aged men preach, they seem to utter the voice of wisdom and experience and are seldom accused of unworthy motives. They stand between the present and the future. Our present pastor closes his services with us today. 
Monday November 2, 1840. Lord wrote me no letter today --good for nothing tiny-tauny tyke! --has no compassion --no pity for me --does'nt love, no! I will scold L. --deserves it --writes only one short letter for two long ones --little coy, obstinate witch! Tis a riddle! cant find out. Heigho! my love increases day by day. It is a plant of thrifty growth and dwells in a grateful soil. 

Election commences today. Both parties are confident of success. Ichabod is written upon the Locofoco. It is corrupt --been in power too long. There is every reason in the world for wishing the law of elections changed; instead of holding the polls open 3 days only one should be allowed. Men will show themselves boys enough in that time. 
Tuesday November 3, 1840. This must be "Indian Summer." In the contest for the mastery, these beautiful smoky days are the close of the lovely summer's reign before she resigns forever in favour of old winter. She sits like a queen upon her throne --her countenance full of beauty tho' mournful, her garments torn and disfigured, and all her glory departed. The little birds rejoice around and bid her farewell or else prepare to accompany her to a more southern clime. 
Oh! who can look upon these faded emblems of her fall --the scattered leaves and discoloured foilage with[out?] regret? Who can think of the splendour of her quiet reign and not shudder at the thoughts of blustering, chilling winter! If I were a bird how soon would I dwell under a milder sun and rejoice in the sweet smiles of her countenance. á 
Wednesday November 4, 1840. Official canvass of Schen'y Co[unty]. It would be worth one's while to select 2 political newspapers of opposite parties and carefully note all the lies they told for a year. Query. Which side would get the majority? 
No subject seems to agitate the scientific world so much as "Terrestrial Magnetism" at the present time. Observatories are erected in various parts of the world from the North to the southern limits [of] human habitation for obtaining facts. England has fitted out two vessels for the purpose. 
Electricity and Electro-magnetism meets with many able experimenters. New facts are daily coming to light. Geology occupies some [of] the ablest philosophers of Europe. Dare not[?] -chemists flag? 
Thursday November 5, 1840. Much credit is due to the good men of our population for doing no deeds of violence and mischeif on election days. Last night the mob ruled. It was perfectly beside itself and vented nothing but shouts for the whole evening till a late hour. 
Hundreds were parading the streets, bonfires were made, guns fired, and demonstrations which an insane multitude could show of their joy were made --and yet you might have seen a vein of good.nature in all this: there was no wan ton mischeif. They knew their power, that all the police in the city could not stand against them, and yet refrained from deeds of violence. Let men feel that they are each one resposible for good order and you have the best pre.servation for quiet security. 

Friday November 6, 1840. All men are enquiring for news --their mouths are wide open, and ears too, to catch every whisper about election returns. Sometimes they are elated, then depressed --all is feverish excitement. In a few days the current-of-things will run quietly again. 
The discovery of a new science or the progress of an old one often requires that we should coin new words. Otherwise it is unpardonable. Thus we have introduced the technical terms "Electrolyte," "Electrode," "Anode," etc. in electrical discussions; but the following 2 words are not to be tolerated. I found them just now in the L & E Journal of Science: "climatal," "complexified." Such barbarians would spoil a language. 
Saturday November 7, 1840. The English written in these days sounds odd, harsh, stiff --it is strangely inverted. Words are used in new senses and new ones, manufactured. The Saxon is fast disappearing from our tongue. I have felt this for a long time. Fashion does everything in matters of change --it not only dictates the cut of our coats but also the pronunciation of words and the style of writing and speaking. This might be tolerated if done with taste and judgement, [but] far from it--mere whim is the best reason for these; affectation, their mother. 
Sunday November 8, 1840. Drizzly, rainy, melancholy weather. My spirits, like the weather glass, rise and fall with the changes of wind and weather. 
Most men find more pleasure in other folks business than in their own. These creatures are like vermin -~ rats and mice --which knaw into chests and cupboards and rifle their contents. They pilfer secrets and babble them abroad, they fatten upon a neighbors misfortune. They eat not with pleasure except their meals are seasoned with slander. They thrust themselves masked into company and give advice when it is not wanted. Oh! insufferable nuisances they are, preying upon all domestic quiet. Heaven preserve me from such. 
Monday November 9, 1840. I consider it a choice virtue of one's character, to keep careful[ly] within one's own territory and never transgress. Such an one will be safe from half the ills of other men. 
910 
He has a bridle upon his tongue and a felter upon his feet, and never 
desires to indulge in the licentious liberty of slander and 
meddlesomeness. Be careful!! Mind I say!! 
Tuesday November 10, 1840. Let no one who never had a habit which he wished or tried to break off inveigh against him who has. If it be but to take a pinch of snuff or smoke a pipe, still it is no easy matter to refrain from it. 
I have smoked for years, sometimes a dozen pipes a day, but always thought it no great matter to stop when I pleased. I had no desire to do so because I saw no good reason. It is a real comfort to smoke, let what will be said to the contrary, yet on the whole I do not think it well for one to get any habit not positively a good one so fixed that he shall be uncomfortable with it. 
I intend therefore to break off smoking as a habit, that is, not to smoke every day at stated times and when my appetite hankers after it. I may when a friend is with me who offers to smoke and asks me to do so, yet not in my room. by myself; another reason -.Lord will not like it, I hope indeed. No man should belch his fumes of spirits or tobacco into a woman's face --it's beastly and impolite. 
[I] will not turn "Lords" stomach by my foul breath. Can I leave off? Yea can I, and will. Remember, Jona., your promise is made and recorded. Remember for your self and "Lord"! 
Union College Wednesday November 11, 1840. Jeremiah L. Eaton, classmate, graduate in 1835, Dominie at Hartford, Conn. Married last June to Miss Bacon of Newton, Mass. "Go it, Jerry." 
Alexander H. Curtis, formerly of Canaan, Col[umbia] Co., N. Y., graduate of '35, classmate (see where it is written of him before) died last summer near Cleaveland, Ohio, where he had for a time practiced as a lawyer. Poor fellow! Was he prepared? I once heard that he was a prof. of religion before he came to Coll. --while in Coll he showed not much piety. What he did afterwards, I know not. 
I hear no good of James Mairs, my classmate --said to be a rake, rascal, no gentleman, low fellow, no knowing where he is now. 
South [Coll.?] John Dales, minister in the Associate Ref. (Scotch) Pres. Church --settled in Phila., married to a neice of Dr. McCarroll's, Newburgh, said to be doing well, graduate of '35, married last July. 
Villeroy D. Reed, classmate, formerly tutor in Un. Coll., afterwards became a minister in Pres. Church and is now settled at Stillwater, Saratoga Co. --noble fellow, doing well, much beloved. 

Duncan Kennedy of "Jim-crow" memory in Coll. --graduated minister at Princeton Theo. Sem. and settled in Charlton, Sara. County; very popular preacher, lately had a call to preach in the North Dutch Church Albany, did not accept: wise, showed good sense in the refusal. Promises to become an eminent man. 
Jasper Smith, classmate --studied law, settled at Syracuse, nice neat, clever little fellow, does not make a great show as yet. "Jim Smith" --Lawyer at Lyons, doing a good business and promises to become eminent in his profession. 
Thursday Novemberl2, 1840. Camanches --a wandering horde of Indians North of Texas, lead a nomadian life, own flocks of cattle and horses, live in tents, come down upon the white settlements for plunder not war, fight in open plains with bows and javelins on horseback, number of warriors 2500 --the nation divided into tribes which have little union of action, not very warlike. 
Galveston, best harbor in Texas --12 ft. water, town in '37 contained 4 houses, now 3000 inhabitants, 2 settled preachers, a Methodist and a Presbyterian. 
Texas can be reached from this place in 11 days, from New Orleans in 36 to 40 hours. 
Government credit low--bonds sold for 16 pr. ct., some prospect of a loan of 5,000,000$ in Holland, in which case credit will rise. 
Foreigners naturalized in 6 mos. Deeds of land holden only by those who reside in the Republic 2 years. (Andrew Yates, Esqr.) 
Official Canvass of Schendy County --Majority: Wm H. Seward 55, Bradish 73; Jonas C. Heast, Senator 72, Linn M. C. 27th Cong. Doe 26, 42, Pearse Assemblyman 99, Reese Loco Foco 26, sheriff, Campbell, Clerk of Co. 7 Electors,172 
9 _ 7 5 7 omitting Reese[?] 
84 1/9, average Whig Majority. 
Friday Novemberl3, 1840. N. B. Locofocos grimace at the Election news like a man shaving with a dull razor. 
I find the following in an English periodical of high merit -an Advertisement: "The Best [English] Dictionary of the English language. Webster's Dictionary, 2 Vols. 4to. Price 21. 12s. 6d. Cloth." 
Another from the same work. --"Price one shilling. United States of America at one view." 
Another--"Price half-a-crown. A Picture of Slavery in the United States of America; being a practical illustration of voluntaryism and republicanism, by George Bourne. The present little volume written by an American preacher, a republican and a voluntary, developes a series of the most atrocious practices which cruelty could devise, or despotism inflict --practices compared with which the inventions circulated by the enemies of the West India planters are absolute innocence. 

Saturday November 14, 1840. "If in these latitudes we hold a bar of pure soft iron in the direction of the magnetic dip (72_) the lower end will have the properties of the marked pole of the magnet and the upper those of the unmarked pole." 
One Castanis, a Greek, showed me a Turkish yatagan which is constantly worn by the Turks as a part of dress --which yatagan showed magnetic (strong) properties at its point. He knew not the cause. Will not the above quotation explain it? 
Sunday NovemberlS, 1840. [No entry] 
Monday November 16, 1840. Castanis showed likewise a houkah or Turkish pipe. The smoke is drawn through water, below is a plan of it. 
[Drawing] 
Here CD = Glass vase handsomely ornamented with gold leaf and ground, filled with water to surface A. P = tobacco pipe with a brass pipe terminating below the water. C = a brass cover, air tight E = brass pipe through which the smoke,, after being cooled by passage thro' the water, is convey to the mouth. T = Flexible tube of leather 
Tuesday November! 7, 1840. Both statesmen and philanthropists of Britain are opperating against our slave system. They are now turning their attention towards India, and are commencing to raise cotton there. Our southern planters must look elsewhere for a market. They will be obliged to look at home for such a market and will eventually favour a higher tariff. 
Wednesday November18, 1840. This evening Miss Gertrude Craig and Mr. John Hudson of Buffalo were married. Long life and a happy to them. 
The fusible alloy of 8 Bismuth, 5 Lead and 3 tin is a convenient metal for various uses, melting at so low a temperature. e.g. We have at the Coll. Library some casts in sulphur of antient medals. I wished to copy a head from one of them for a seal. To do this I laid the sulphur cast ( oiled) upon a sheet of paper and poured upon it plaster of Paris mixed with water. It set and formed a perfect mould. 

Thursday November 19, 1840. I oiled this mould and poured plaster upon it again. The head was copied in bas-relievo. Some of the fusible metal was then melted and poured upon paper and the bas.relievo was pres[s]ed into it. When cold I had a seal of the metal; wax is sufficiently hard for such purposes. 
[sample here] 
This is a specimen. 
Friday November 20, 1840. A petticoat and grey hairs often protect the possessor from merited chastisement. 
Henry Roscoe of Liverpool wrote Memoirs of Eminent British Lawyers; Leo Xth, Lorenzo de Medici's --which are now regarded as standard English classics. á 
Saturday November 21, 1840. My patience is worn threadbare by every correspondent which I have. Not one answers my letters. One thing at least let me learn from this, always to be punctual in replying to communications sent to me; never to disappoint one to 
whom  I have  promised  anything;  in  time,  to  be  punctual  in  
everything.  On his friends expectations, to his utmost.  
Sunday November 22, 1840. These remarks  are  aptly illustrated  by  

Cobbett in his own conduct towards his wife. He owns that he never disappointed her in his life. He would always be at home at the specified time and would never torture her mind by anxiety for him when absent on business but would always advise her of his movements from time to time, that she might be content and happy. I revere and honor the man who did such things for his wife. No mark of greatness or work of genius could so much command my respect. 
Monday November 23, 1840. This thing shows him to have had finer feelings and a more delicate perception of what is truly benevolent than I ever thought him capable of. I delight in such little un.obtrusive and at the same time elegant marks of kindness. Is not this little incident in Cobbetts life a surer mark of his love to his wife than if he had brought her at every return a splendid dress or a China tea or dinner set? No comparison! 

Tuesday November 24, 1840. In the midst of College examinations. Ex. Com. Dominie Murphy, St Johnsville; Chester, Saratoga; Van Vechten, Schend'y. 
Wednesday November 25, 1840. The 2 great questions which now divides the attention of the East (Europe) are the China War and the war against the Pasha of Egypt. The Emperor of China prohibits the introduction of opium into his dominions. 
The English and others persist in sending it. The Emp[eror] orders it to be seized and the English result [resent?] this conduct -.what conduct? Why, that the Chinese should enforce their own laws foresooth. So John Bull is going to make the Celestial Emp. pay for-it dearly. Its all right, yes, perfectly right! because England has the might! Oh! glorious consistency! Secondly: The Pacha of Egypt rebelled against the Sultan and took Syria. He declared himself and his people independent of the power at Constantinople. The beautiful Holy! Alliance interferes. The integrity of the Turkish Empire must be preserved. The Pacha must give up his Syrian possessions. 
He resists, they go to war with him. Kill, destroy, burn towns and what for? --Oh! hear, did I not tell you --to preserve the in.tegrity of the Turkish Empire! What care they for that? Do they care if [all] China, The Turks, Syria, Egypt and all were sunk in the Red sea if only their interest was promoted? Not a whit. A meaner set of men never crawled than those politicians and crowned heads of Europe -.I mean as a general thing. Is there but one Metternich? Is Tallyrand dead? Then ten more have revived in his place. Great servants of the Devil, they are all! War and bloodshed are less to them than loss of power and glory. 
Thursday November 26, 1840. Feel like a school-boy let out of school when our vacation comes, dear, sweet vacation, time of luxurious unbending of mind from all irksome duties, time of de.licious reverie and reading what you please. I can think of no higher earthly happiness than to have a competency of this worlds goods, a good library, my dear "Lord," and to sit down and revel in a good book. 
Friday November 27, 1840. Some of the most eminent French writers --Montaigne, Fenelon, Rabelais, Voltaire, Corneille, Rousseau, 

Rochefaucault, Condorcet, Moliere, Mirabeau, La Fontaine, Mad[ame] de Stael, Pascal, Mad. de Sevigne, Boileau, Mad. Roland, Racine. 
Utica Saturday November 28, 1840. I am in U[tica]. Friends well especially "Lord" -best, dearest, of all friends. 
Sunday November 29, 1840. That Mr. Bright of the Bethel Baptist church gives a good practical sermon; he never can rise above mediocre, I think, has good sense, good taste, correct notions of his profession. 
Have I told this before? Dr Beecher used to say that ministers ought to be ordainded on horseback that they may be ready to start. Speaking of the changes in the ministry 
[Remainder of page blank] 
Monday November 30, 1840. Sheridan Knowles is said to be a man beloved by all --friends and strangers. His phiz has a jolly good.natured look which preposseses everyone in his favour. Is really a most kind-hearted man, lazy, writes not so much for reputation as for money, gets 400 £ or 500 £ for a play. Altha' an eminent dramatist, a poor actor. 
Tuesday December 1, 1840. Arabian Nights' Entertainment are tales which, like Robinson Crusoe, are never forgotten: they always please how[ever] many times read and never will be surpassed in interest by any other stories. 
Milton is on everybody's lips, yet I will venture to say that not 1 out ofl0 ever read his "Paradise Lost" thro? If he had never wrote a line of poetry, his prose would have rescued his name from oblivion. What power of language he has! Yet terribly severe on his opponents. -He's not always to [be] imitated nor to be commended in this. Did he kill****** by his severity! 
Wednesday December 2, 1840. Have just taken up Miss Joanna Bailey's plays to read. Does not Scott somewhere commend them highly as rich exhibitions of human nature? The "Election" is the first which I read --was disappointed, the only person I liked was Mrs. Baltimore; that's pretty true as it struck me. Charlotte seems to be the silliest dunce alive. Charles has nothing to do thro'out, what's he there for? Old Baltimore is a very crooked stick, but perhaps well.drawn character. 

Thursday December 3, 1840. The "Second Marriage" I took next, which I like much better. One sees at first sight that they are not playable. Dialogue is too stiff, no ease, too prosy, too essaie. Yet this does not injure the true exhibition of the characters of the play. I felt disappointed to find a play with Love for the subject and turning point. Here we see them, plays on the different passions. Miss B. certainly is entitled to originality here, to some extent. Shakespeare has plays without love indeed, but we find none professedly written to illustrate the effects of the different passions. 
Wednesday December 4, 1840. "Whatever is to be done at all ought to be done as soon as possible." 
Pope's a courtier-like letter-writer, at least to ladies. He's fun of fulsome plain[t] and flattery. No man wrote a more labored and stiff letter. 
Thursday December 5, 1840. Lady Mary Wortley Montague intro.duced the practice of inoculaion into England from Turkey. You will see her a[c]count of it among her letters. In a letter ( 1723) to Countess Mars, she says, "I am so much pulled about and solicited to visit people that I am forced to run into the country to hide myself." 
Friday December 6, 1840. I find it the almost universal complaint at the beginning and for the first half of the last century in England that letters did not go safe nor arrive punctual[y. See Lady Montague's, Swift's, Pope's and others' letters. 
Saturday December 7, 1840. Let no man judge at first sight and upon slight occasions. I have always seen reason to believe this true. Be slow and cautious in estimating any thing whatever. To this effect I am led to speak because after reading one [ot] Joan Baillie's [books] I thought her a writer of small note. But let one go thro' all and I question if he can arise from the book without confessing that there 
is wondrous truth to nature. Her wrought in with great ingenuity.  several[?]  leading passion is  
[Sept .25 1840] "The dean (Swift) is I think  without  exception  the  best and  most  

correct writer of English that has ever yet appeared as an author." (Dr. King of Oxford) 

Palignac said of Swift, I1 a l'esprit createur.] 
Sunday December 8, 1840. 
[Remainder of the page is blank] 
[Schenectady] 
Monday December 9, 1840. Returned today from Utica. 
I dare say no one ever read prettier letters than Lady Montague's, so simple, sprightly, witty and neat. She makes a commonplace subject entertaining and by her vivacity charms as well as instructs. I imagine her to have been more of a man than her husband. Her heart seems to have retained even in the midst of fashion and splendor a contempt for such fopperies. Although a worldly woman, you see much native, artless simplicity and goodness shining out from her writings. 
Tuesday December 10, 1840. She says: "I think Joseph Andrews 
better than his foundling." 
"All the writings I have seen of his (Bolingbroke's) apeared to me to be copied from the French eloquence. I mean a poor or trite thought dressed in pompous language." (Lady M. W. M.) Wonder if that remark is not true? Lady M., it seems, had a quarrel with Pope. She bears hard upon his and Swifts' characters. The former was excessively fond of money, the latter of flattery. I believe there is some truth in the remark. They were men who, I believe, cannot very much command our respect when their private characters are searched into. 
Wednesday Decemberl 1, 1840. I cannot but confess that the more I know of Dr. Franklin's opinions and character, the less do I like him. I remember to have read his autobiography 2ce when I was but a boy, but from all that I now remember of it am fully of the opinion that its effect is bad upon the youthful mind. 
I dont see just and noble sentiments there so constantly as could be desired, and when one turns to his essays and pithy sayings, he finds nothing but Utilitarianism, money-making, and money.saving. I say that one rises from Franklin's works not more elevated in mind nor better in morals, else I by no means understand the man. I do not condemn all. He was a great Philosopher. 
Thursday December 12, 1840. I once liked Johnson better than I do now, when I knew him less. His Rambler, which I thought a model of 

fine writing (of fine thought, I do not deny) is undoubtedly artificial and elaborate to excess. He does not write pure English -but Johnson had an exquisite taste for the beauties of good writing. He was a just critic where his prejudices did not interfere. Milton he abused --both his Tory and high-church principles were attacked (and too successfully) by the poet. Bye the bye, no talent ... 
Friday December 13, 1840 ... .is more rare than that of justly and im.partially judging of the works of others. Long and careful reading, meditation thereon, and nice discrimination are necessary. One knows when a book pleases him but seldom why. He feels the beauties but can not point them out. 
Saturday December 14, 1840. Gray's best peice is "Elegy written in a church yard." I admire his "Ode to Spring," "On the death of a favorite cat" and "Distant view of Eton College." I think him a poet of exquisite taste for the beautiful in Nature, and great sweetness. His language is neat and elaborate. Does not Johnson do him great injustice? 
Sunday DecemberlS,1840. (No! Sunday is 13th Dec. --Mistake somewhere back.) 
Heard my friend Nichols preach in Dutch Church, first time in this city--was frightened but made a tolerable debut. His fort lies not in public speaking if I know him aright but in teaching languages, where he excels. 
Dr. Nott said of his son John, "He is very pious but not very moral!" I believe this will apply admirably well to many other Christians by profession. Even to the Dr. himself. With all my previous respect for him when I knew him less, I must say that I now almost despise him. He is too cunning and crafty and intriguing .I hate such men. A fox has not morality enough to be a Christian. 
Monday December 14, 1840. Dr. Beattie wrote the "Minstrel" in 2 books --"a soothing murmur" in his own language. It abounds with many beautiful delightful passages, last half of 2nd book dull. His "Battle of the Pigmies and Cranes" is a fine Mock Heroic, translated from Addisons latin poem. 
Tuesday December 15, 1840. An epitaph is made for the living, not the dead. Dr. Gregory wrote, "A Father's Legacy," a beautiful and affecting address to his daughters. 

The "Universal German Gazette of Berlin" gave laws to all Germany in Theology, Philosophy, Science and Arts --and does now for aught I know. 
Wednesday December 16, 1840. "Politics and controversy are as becoming our sex as the dress of a prize-fighter." Lady M. W. Mont. "When time has ripened mankind into common-sense, the name of conqueror will be an odious .title." (same) "It has long been a maxim not to consider if a man be fit for a place, but if the place be fit for him." (same) 
On the 19th Nov. 1758, she writes to her daughter, Countess of Bute, that for 11 years she had not looked in a glass, to avoid the mortification of seeing that she was growing old. 
"Bear and forbear" is a rule of Epictetus. 
Thursday December 17, 1840. Dr. Franklin's account of White.washing is a most humorous peice. Its' capital. Read and see. 
I have finished the reading of Lady Mary W. Montague's Letter's and can say that they are inimitable. Swifts' I like but these of hers are better. They are unequal as indeed they should be, having been written thro' the course of a long life and under all circumstances of ill or happy feelings. Those from Constantinople are the best. They are brilliant pictures without stiffness or glare. She wrote not for effect, as it would seem, and perfectly unconscious of her powers. Lady M. was not uncontaminated by the world and fashionable life. The loose and questionable morality which prevails there may sometimes be seen to tinge her mind, yet on the whole she was a noble woman 
Friday December 18, 1840. A thousand redeeming good qualities break forth among her dark spots. Her husband died in '61 and she returned from abroad in the same year after his descease, and died in '63 or '62. Whether she was on good terms with him or not, I can not learn fully. Some think not, altho' they came to no open rupture or rancorous feelings, she continually corresponding with him altho' in rather a formal way. If she had no real... 
Saturday December 19, 1840 .... piety of heart (of which I can judge nothing from her letters) she certainly had much philosophy so.called, I mean a great power over her feelings, a strong reason which could stand up against the fretfulness and mortifying annoyances of old age. She was abroad 12 or 13 yrs. alone, an aged woman, without one friend, and much of the time sick and yet by all her letters one 
930 
sees the best reason in the world to think her happy or at least as contented as one could possibly be in her situation; for my own part I was more astonished at this than at even her great talents for witty writing. I see however that quite contrary opinions may be found by 2 individuals reading her letters. In 2nd Vol. Edin. Rev. some one criticizes her works briefly and obtains a much worse view of her character than I was inclined to form from her writings. 
Sunday December 20, 1840. Heard sermon on self-denial --good. From a young Mr. Turney, late from Ham[pton] Institution. A clever preacher, but I wish he knew what few unpolished young Dominies know, not to make long calls or rather "bores" upon his parishioners. I cant endure 3 1/2 hours at a time. My patience is not so long. But he is a nice young fellow --hope we may keep him. It requires long endurance to put up with our poor ignorant church-people. They judge of a ministers qualifications in most cases too much from the cut and fashion of his coat and its fineness. If his hair is uncombed, so much the better. They see piety in a long face and woe-begone phiz. If [his feet are shod in neats-leather (another name for the "preparation of the gospel") and toe-in, another cubit is added to his statu[r]e in holiness. A whining, snuffling, canting manner they can.not resist, and Bro. A. must be "called" to be our pastor. Do not many churches justify what I have said? 
Monday December 21, 1840. On Friday last a murderer (Cook) was hung in the jail-yard, a hardened impen[i]tent wretch till the last. What makes crowds of women and men hasten to see such a dreadful sight? Is it curiosity? It must be; no being could delight to see another hanging in agony with distorted and haggard face. 
I have often thought it a mere scandal upon the sex: that they are excessive fond of dress. Admitting it true of the mass, I doubted it to be so with the intelligent. Yet I am some-what staggered in my worthy doubts now. In my own mind the evidence goes to convict them of the charge in by far the majority of cases. No great matter after all, if true, although frivolous. 
Tuesday December 22, 1840. I am vexed beyond [bearing?] by one of those impudences which some women are guilty of: I mean that of taking up all the sidewalk in the streets. Spreading themselves to their utmost and elbowing one into the gutter. I will give anyone all she deserves and as a lady can expect, but to see women presuming upon their power of being saucy with impunity, is beyond what my philosophy can well bear. Let every woman be reminded to assume little and she gets much. Let her never show a mind to exact even so much as by right she may demand and she may be sure of getting double for her forbearance. I say again, for a woman to be unman.erly because she can do it with impunity would condemn her in my opinion forever. 

Wednesday December 23, 1840. Notes from the Review of Bacon's Works and Philosophy, by McCauly. No article ever pleased me more than this. The author see[s] the whole of a work at one view as he would a picture; the beginning, end, and middles are all com.prehended by his mind and weighed and canvassed for merits or demerits. This style is vigorous, pithy; ample and original illustrations are found throughout. Every sentence tells, no word is written merely filling up a sentence or sounding large, nothing is said for effect. It is plain good English. 
Thursday December 24, 1840. What was the end of Bacon's Philosophy? "The relief of man's estate." Utility and Progress. The old Philosophy despised utility, and it was a treadmill, not a path. The aim of the Platonic Philosophy was to raise us above vulgar wants. The aim of the Baconian Phil. was to supply our vulgar wants. The one, a Philosophy of words; the other, of works. Bacon was not the inventor of Induction. It has been known since the days of Adam. Everybody employs it. He did not overthrow the old system of Phil.osophy. Men had seen it uselessness before his time. It is cheifly to the Great Reformation of Religion that we owe the Reformation of Philosophy. 
Friday December 25, 1840. Before Bacon's time the old Phil. had been discarded mostly. Men were without a leader. He became one. Most people misjudge of Bacon's share in reviving the true Philosophy. He did not make the road (induction) to new discoveries but he awakened public attention to the mine of wealth at the end of it, the fruit It is to be doubted whether his rules in his Organam for the Inductive Process are of any kind of use. 
Saturday December 26, 1840. Bacon acted a most base and ungrateful part against his friend Essex; he murdered him both body and fame. He was a man of low moral feelings, a mean-spirited, a cold-hearted man. He would sacrifice a friend for wealth or tittles or place. Otherwise, he had noble qualities: a Godlike intellect, humility in all his great successes, temperate in his pleasures, an even[n]ess of temper and kindness to inferiors. How infamous his conduct to poor old Peacham, whom he tortured and condemned to imprisonment till death by tampering with the judges before trial. Bacon was a soaring angel, a creeping snake. 

A seeker for truth, a seeker for the ******. In the matter of Patents of Monopoly he did gross injustice, and finally as Chancellor accepted bribes repeatedly, till Parliment adjudged him guilty, degraded and disgraced him forever. (Macaul[a]y) 
Sunday December 27, 1840. Snowed yesterday and today. All "snowed up." 
Monday December 28, 1840. How many evidences of man's immor.tality! Why could any one doubt it? Strange that he should be forever striving for such a goal and yet ever doubt its existence! 
Tuesday December 29, 1840. Bacon's "Advancement of Learning" 
much talked about but little read. 
Wednesday December 30, 1840. That "Devil on Two Sticks" is not absolutely so trifling as its tittle would indicate. LeSage wrote it and laid its scene (as he did that of Gil Blas) in Spain. He satirized therein men and manners in a pleasant strain with much brevity. I have seen a much worse book many a time. The name frightens many who otherwise would read it. 
Thursday December 31, 1840. The closing year is full of instruction. It awakens gratitude to Him who crowns our days with mercy and goodness. It teaches us the shortness of life and reminds us of the silent stealthy march of time. It warns us to settle our accounts with him who is just ready to bear his records into eternity. It awakens good resolutions for the future, and repentance for the past offences. 
184 1 Friday January 1. Evening 9 o'clock. The usual good wishes of happiness, the smiling faces and happy hearts, the annual calls of ceremony have ushered in the commencement of another year, but how many of these light hearts will cease their motion this year! How many pangs of sorrow will wring them,, how fleeting will this earthly joyfulness be found! Learn wisdom from these anniversaries. Made 63 calls upon families of my acquaintance, and closed the day in a snow storm. 

Utica. 

