
Saturday January 2, 1841. The happy, joyous communion of friends 
often has one bitter sting --the agony of parting. Thus is all earthly 
pleasure alloyed with pain. So frequent has this experience been 
mine that the beginning of a happy visit with one whom I love points 
to a sorrowful seperation. 
Sunday January 3, 1841. How beautiful is a happy, cheerful old age, made tolerable, yea pleasant, by the consolations of religion! The fretfulness and hopelessness of such a man are all put to flight by the near approach of heaven; his heart clings less and less to this world; and when he no longer, by reason of years and infirmities, sees future hope or present happiness for him here, he lays hold of the promises of the other world. A blessed thing is religion if it only smooths the road to death. 
Little Falls Monday January 4, 1841. From Utica to Little Falls, from L. F. t9 Fairfield to see a Cabinet of Minerals belonging to Dr. Hadley --for sale --and back to L. F. Miserable little hotel --cold, dirty, noisy, uncomfortable. 
Schenectady Tuesday January 5, 1841. Coldest day of the winter thus far. Thermometer -16 and -20, but modern improvements have made travelling comfortable nevertheless, Railroad coaches being heated by stoves, so that one may ride without overcoats. 
Wednesday January 6, 1841. The old King of Prussia, who died the past year, had some peculiarities in his manner of speaking of which the following is a specimen. He was walking in his public garden and met a student whom he thus addressed --"Who be?" Ans. "Student be." "Fool be." Ans. "You be." 
Thursday January 7, 1841. Dr. Physic, the celebrated Physician of Philadelphia, was called one day by a lady to see her child who had swallowed a six pence. The Dr. asked her if the six pence was good. "Yes." Are you sure? "I have no reason to doubt it." Then I think it will pass! 
Friday January 8, 1841. The celebrated Abernethy was in like manner very much annoyed by a lady who had a child that had swallowed a spider. A. walked the room for some time listening to 



934.
her garr[u]lousness; finally he caught a fly in his hand and said; "There, Madam, put that fly in the child's mouth and let him buzz around and I think the spider will come up." 
Saturday January 9, 1841. A young Physician of Hanover,, being eminent for his beauty as well as skill, was very much pestered by the young ladies who fancied they had ailments that they might have an excuse for calling the handsome Doctor. One in particular troubled him vastly. She had a palpitation of the heart &c. "My dear Madam," said he, "I would advise you to bath[e] yourself in rose leaves and drink forget-me-not tea!" á 
Sunday January 10, 1841. Read 3 of Saurin['s] exellent sermons and listened to one of Dr. Nott's eloquent appeals. S. was a refugee from France on account of his religion; he preached a while in Eng. arid married there. Afterwards he settled in the Hague where I think he died. 
Monday January 11, 1841. A Doctor in Portsmouth used when listening to his patients account of his symptoms to say often, "Oh! yes! yes! yes! I understand your case; I have been just so myself." Being called to administer to a pregnant lady, he said, "Yes! yes! my dear Madam: I comprehend your case perfectly, I have been just so myself!" 
Tuesday January 12, 1841. A young speaker in the Parliament arose to make his maiden speech. He was much embarressed and said, "Mr Speaker: considering the merits of this resolution I conceive--I conceive --Yes, Mr Speaker, I conceive" -at which point in his speech another member jumped: "Mr. Speaker, this gentleman has conceived 3 times and has not brought forth once!" 
Wednesday January 13, 1841. Everybody, I mean those who do do not understand him, who do not read his works, and that is nearly everybody, speaks of Machiavelli as an arrant intrigue[r], a vile adviser of a prince to tread upon the necks of his subjects, but he is 
misunderstood.  Those who know his sentiments  become  Machia. 
vellis.  (Dr. Tellkampf.)  
Thursday  January  14, 1841.  We  sometimes  underrate  the  

comprehension of the lower classes: e.g. Dr. Nott preached some months ago to the coloured people in this city. In trying to get down to their level, that he might be understood he [quit and******?] and 

they took it in high dudgeon --that he should "talk nigger" to them, 
asáthey called it. 
Friday January 15, 1841. Francis Emp[eror] of Austria was a weak.minded man, (so by the by his successor). After the battle of Wagran, Bonaparte marched to Vienna and dictated what terms he pleased to the conquered Monarch, wrote the contract and placed his seal. Francis was to ratify it before all his court. But while he held the instrument in his hand and all his courtiers were afflicted at his ill fortune, he turned to his neighbor and said, "Well, now, this Rascal of a Napoleon has even got better *sealing-wax than I have." 
+Francis was noted for amusing himself in making sealing.
wa:x; he prided himself upon his skill in the manufactory of it. 
Saturday January 17, 1841. Nicolas of Russia is said to be a good hearted-man, and the miserable despotic measure of his government [is] said to be dictated by a powerful aristocracy or nobility which is extremely unprincipled. 
Sunday January 18, 1841. [No entry] 
Monday Januaryl 9, 1841. As an illustration of Nicholas' powerless.ness: he visited Berlin some years since; while there he wished to make a present of a very rich watch to a Prof. of the Un[iversity] whom he esteemed. He stepped into a jeweller's shop, purchased one, and sent his attendant to present it with his compliments to the Prof. Some days after Nicholas was at the Pror s house and by chance saw him take a watch of very ordinary make from his pocket. He was surprised and enquired if he did not receive his present. "O yes, this is the watch" No! but that is not the one which I sent you." After enquiry it was found that his attendant had kept the valuable watch and given a meaner one to the Prof. 
Tuesday January 20, 1841. The Crown Prince of Prussia immediately proposed to imprison the culprit. "No", said Nicholas, "he is nearly related to many powerful families of my empire. If I should punish him my head would not be safe." 
Wednesday January 21, 1841. ________ of Hanover (Ger.) was a noted absent-minded man. When he first came to that city where he was engaged in a Gymnasium, he called on the Pres[ident] as a matter of course. It rained when he entered the house and, seeing a coat hanging in the hall, he took off his own,,, which was wet, and put on the dry one. Being ushered into the parlour he sat down and read a book while the servant went after the Pres. In this occupation he soon became quite absorbed so that when the gentleman entered the room he thought himself in his own house and arose and thanked him that he had done him the honour to call on him first, assuring the Pres. at the same time that he had intended to have called that very morning upon him. 

Thursday January 22, 1841. When he left the house, he wore off the Pres. coat and left his own. At a subsequent time whilst he was Prof. in the Gymnasium, the bell surprised him at a very interesting book. He had one boot on and one slipper; in his haste and absence of mind he sallied out to his recitation room with the other boot in one hand and his book in the other, reading all the way. 
Friday January 23, 1841. The novel mode of putting down mobs by the fire-engine was first invented by Napoleon in Paris. The French seemed to take it as a joke and dispersed in good nature without any harm but a ducking. When he was forced to resort to arms to disperse a mob, his command was: first, fire ball ca[r]tridges and then, blanks. 
Saturday January 24, 1841. Francis Emp[orer] of Austria once showed a wise thought in dispersing a mob. He had issued a proclamation in Vienna that Friday should be kept as a fast day. The citizens did not relish the law but were fonder of their roast chickens than of the canons of the church. So they collected in mass before the palace and demanded a repeal of the offensive ordinance. The co[u]rtiers were in consternation; but Francis kept the mob in suspense expecting his answer to their demands. "Wait till one o'clock," said he to his councillors, "and they will all go home quietly. They like their dinners better than their requests." The event justified his-prediction. 
' 
Sunday January 24, 1841. Are not many Houses of Worship, indeed most, utterly neglected dirty, and uncomfortable! Yet if one advo.cates elegance and becoming decency in God's House, too many per.son's reply that He looks not to the place of worship but to the heart. Episcopalians of all other denominations only consider order and neatness as an indispensable part of church service. Indeed I have often feared that they put too much stress upon decency and outward show. 

Monday January 25, 1841. Presbyterians have good houses in our cities but in the country, they must be excepted also. Baptists have dirty houses and Methodists are in the like situation. I can pardon a poor sermon much easier than an uncomfortable meeting house. 
Tuesday January 26, 1841. Paul de Rock, a playwriter of France-."Le bon Enfant" and "Frere Jacques" --2 best --very voluminous. According to the Reviewer, the Smollett of France. Deficient in gcxxl moral tendency. 
Wednesday January 27, 1841. Malthus, the political economist, single-minded and patient. "He made the two great discoveries since Adam Smith's time (the father of Pol. Econ.), those relative to rent and population." Is to be placed next Adam Smith as a discover[er] of [political?] science, an equal if not superior of Ricardo. Say not an originator of new principles but has a felicitous way of presenting old ideas. Sir James Mackintosh says: "I knew Adam Smith slightly, Ricardo well, and Malthus intimately. Is it not something to say for a science that its 3 great Masters were about the 3 best men I ever knew?" Malthus is attacked for his poor-law principles. 
Thursday January 28,1841. Medical Works. (In April of 1840 I wrote down some other distinguished periodicals.) 
British and Foreign Med[ical] Review Edinburgh Med. and Sur[gical] Journal Medicochirurgical Review London Medical Gazette Revue Medicale Francaise et Etrangere Journal de Medicine et de Chirurgie Pratiques Journal de Pharmacie et des sciences accessoires Journal des Connoissances Medicales Pratiques et de Pharmacologie. Journal des-Connoissances Medico-Chirurgicales. á La Lancette Francaise Gazette Medicale de Paris. Zeitschrift fur die gesammte Medicin Jahrbuch der gesammten Staats arznei-Kunde herausgegeben The West-India Journal of Science The New York Journal of Med. and Surg. The Boston Med. and Surg. Journal The Select Med. Library and Eclectic Journal of Medicine The Medical Examiner 
936 
The Western Journal of Med and Surg. American Journal of Pharmacy 
American Med. Library and Intelligencer 
American Journal of Dental Science. 
Friday January 29, 1841. Gulian C. Verplank says that William Irving, brother of Washington, wrote most of Knickerbocker's History of N. Y. Washington is a lazy man, and it is a wonder on that accQunt how he should write so much as he has. 
Saturday January 30, 1841. Baron Finck is Gov. of the Prussian provinces upon the Rhine --a plain, honest man, just and faithful in his duties. He often travels on foot incog. and meets with amusing incidents. On one of these excursions he overtook a country man in the way who had a heavy pack. He entered into conversation with him and trudged on. Pretty soon his companion asked the Baron to carry his pack a little for him "O yes," said he and accordingly took it up. So they travelled till they came to the next town, sharing the burthen alternately between them. When arrived, the countryman asked his fellow traveller to step into an ale house. He did so and partook of the refreshments set before him by his friend, who thanked him heartily for the relief which he had given him. The Baron in turn asked the peasant to call at a tavern with him. He wished to return the treat, so they went to the best hotel in town, when his friend says to the Baron, "Oh my dear sir, you had better not call here for it is dear." However they went in and the Baron,, after entertaining him, made himself known and said, "Now, my friend, if hereafter I can relieve you of your burthens of life as I have today relieved you of your pack, you may command my assistance at any time." 
Sunday January 31, 1841. A brief analysis of Dr. Nott's sermon pronounced in the Bapt. church, 10th Jan. P. M. Ecclesiastes 9th Chap., lO[th] verse. 
"In the preceding verses Solom[o]n teaches how life is to be enjoyed. In the 10th, how life is to be employed. There is something for man to do in his salvation --a preparation for the life to come. Is it necessary to show that man requires such a preparation?" 
"But what can the sinner do? Repent. You cannot make atonement, Christ has done that. You may be sure of admittance if you knock. Has any sinner ever been rejected? It is the advice of an enemy that the sinner has nothing to do; it is not the language of the Bible. You do place the first last by putting off repentance. You were 
939 
placed here to prepare for eternity. Your preparation for heaven made, then prepare for death as it respects the fortune of your worldly affairs and the temper of your mind. "Set thy house in order for thou shalt die and not live." 
A ripeness and maturity of Christian character should be attained before death. Death gloomy to nature; familiarize yourself to it, view it from Calvary. Prepared for Heaven and death, you are then just prepared to live; then do vigourously what you have to do. 
Monday February 1, 1841. Mozart was in music what Raphael was in painting. The 2 best journals on Classical Literature in Germany are "The Darmstadt Classical Journal," Zimmerman Editor; and "Jahn's Annals." 
Tuesday February 2, 1841. It is said of Dr. Bellamy, an old divine of Conn., that he was sitting in his study on a time and that a large volume fell from the shelves upon his head. When he recovered from the blow, he found that he had forgotten all his Latin and Greek and could not recall the simplest elements of what he formerly knew in them. He commenced anew therefore to learn them but, being taken sick, on his recovery all his Latin and Greek returned to him. This instance is like some mentioned in Abercrombie's little work on Mental Philosophy. 
Wednesday February 3, 1841. Baron Finck, Gov. of the Prus. Rhenish Provinces, once came into the office of a judge. He was dressed in ordinary cloths the better to [be] concealed. He found in the office a clerk reading a newspaper. 
Baron. "Is the judge at home"? Clerk. "Yes but you cant see him." The young blade deigned not so much as to offer the Baron a chair or to look off from his newspaper. 
Baron. "But I have urgent business with the judge and must see him." Clerk. "I tell you again he is not at home for such fellows as you: and if-you trouble me any farther I will put you out of the office"! 
Baron (taking his card from his pocket). "Please sir, present him my card." Where upon the Clerk was struck dumb and recovering himself made a thousand humble apologies. 
Baron. "Was you put here to read newspapers? or do the necessary business of the office? Now sir, if I ever hear of your reading newspapers when you be attending to your business or of refusing to wait upon such persons as you took me to be, I will see that your place is filled forthwith with another". Exit Baron. 
94-0 
Thursday February 4, 1841. In Ap[ril] last are a list of periodicals; here they are continued. 
Land. Eclectic Review. (Protestant Dissenters.), Editor Josiah Couder Christian Observer (Epis.) Ed. Rev. Samuel Charles Wilks Christian Spectator, New Haven, C. A. Goodrich Lit. and Theo. Review, N. Y., Leonard Woods D. D. Methodist Quarterly N. Y., Rev. Doctor Bangs 
Friday February 5, 1841. Of all those men who figure so largely on this world stage few --very few --ever last beyond the narrow breadth of time in which they exist. Few men are truly great; fewer ever perpetuate their greatness to after ages. In all the scramble for office and honours, mere temporary greatness is sought after --to be the idol of the crowd for a day or year --to be gazed on by the gaping crowd who look upon mere outward appearance. When this short pageant is over, they drop into forgetfulness, their names are only register'd on Legislative journals, unread, unsung. 
Saturday February 6, 1841. Union Coll. having been in existence since '95 and having arrived at some eminence among similar Institutions, it would seem proper and surely would be gratifying to its friends and Alumni, to have a history of its rise and progress written. In such an article (I suppose it need not be large) should not only be the Charter, financial statements, list of Profs. and Graduates and Trustees, but some notice of all the distinguished men who have in any way been connected with it. Donors to funds and library should be particularly noticed. 
Sunday February 7, 1841. My classmate, Duncan Kennedy of "Jim Crow" memory, preached in town today with very considerable credit to himself. Indeed it is gratifying to see ones mates rising in eminence. "Dunc" was lazy in Coll. Hard study was never charged upon him. He was something of a speech-maker, if I remember aright, and had some elegance in composition. These two latter talents seem to develope themselves now. He has a good field before him for their display. His sermons are much admired. Not long since the North Dutch Church in Albany gave him a call to be their Minister, an honor which few young men would have received or refused as he did. Amen, "Dunc". 
94-1 
Monday February 8, 1841. How exceeding mean when compared with the next world doe.s this appear --full of aches, pains, fears, sickness, death. Utter and dark despair would seize upon man if the hope of a blessed hereafter did not buoy up his spirits. This hope is made known in the gospel. Oh how great an enemy to the peace of man is he who would wantonly overthrow it and have nothing in its place but an everlasting sleep! 
Tuesday February 9, 1841. Here is a case in town (in humble life, but not without interest) of an old man of 70, Frederick Clute, whose wife died some 12 weeks ago. Six weeks after, he married a young woman and now about 6 weeks from his marriage he is dead. His ail.ment by all accounts the same as his first wife['s]. Such events are common, of sudden mortality --hence the living pass on unprofiled, [un?]familiar with danger. The world is careless and improvident. 
Wednesday February 10, 1841. The death of the whole Kingdom of Russia would [not?] so much move one as the sting of a bee upon his finger. Of how much interest to the merchant of teas is the salvation of the whole Sandwich Islands, compared with the news from the Chinese War? Who remembers that a few months ago at the bombardment of Jean d'Acre hundreds of poor wretches were killed and wounded and the peace of thousands more destroyed? No one-.--whilst the bringing back to France of the rotten bones of Napoleon is passed from mouth with the liveliest interest. It's useless, entirely unnecessary, to quote cases in support of this most lamentable truth, that man's judgement is weak, erring and mistaken. 
Thursday February 11, 1841. How beautifully we often preach! Oh! the blessings of contentment with a moderate competence, the folly of ambition, the fleeting nature of riches. How unsatisfying are honours and splendour and houses and lands, fame but an empty puff of air! Yes! Yes! all beautiful truisms, comforting, bracing --but alas who acts consistent thereto! We assent to the Golden Doctrine but our hearts are far from it. 
Friday February 12, 1841. When I first learned to solder with the alloy and tin and lead, I do not know that I could have been better pleased if I had found a mine. It is a small matter and yet requires some skill. Without it the Chemist is continually annoyed and delayed by sending his ap[p]aratus to the tinman's or he must go to the expense of calling him to the laboratory. To solder therefore is indispens[a]ble and to know how one must learn. 

Saturday February 13, 1841. If the rumor be true, the war between Eng. and China is ended by the Emperor's paying 3,000,000£ for the opium and expenses of the war. However unrighteous this attack upon China, yet the Emp. has shown more wisdom and prudence than usually falls to the lot of his Christian neighbors in thus ending the contest peac[e]ably. 
Eng. acts upon the maxim that might makes right. She is also successful in India (North) and Syria. She has gained her points and now, a little vain of her power and puffed up, may we not yet get a brush with her about the North West Territory? 
Sunday February 14, 1841. Our Church, having been pastorless some months, have today called a young man (Cyrus Smith) mem[ber] of Sen[ior] Class in Coll. to be their minister. His talents are very respectable, acquirement also, but is it right to encourage young men thus to leap from the College or Acad[emy] into the pulpit? Is mere academic education necessary? and Theology to be neglected? May the Lord help him (no one else can) to preach truth and no error. I am sorry to see churches guided by such young Theologians, whose beard has hardly grown. Far better that they should tarry in Jeric[h]o. 
Monday February 15, 1841. Here I am in bed all day with aching head and throbbing pulse, the effects of a severe cold. These ailments are fit monitors of our mortality. When the false security of health make us forgetful of Him who supports us in existence, they often bring us back to reason, they awaken our gratitude. Let me never murmur. 
Tuesday February 16, 1841. So much improved as to sit in my room. Here is an article in the Edinburgh Rev., hieroglyphics, well worth one's time. Strange that it should have been left to the moderns to decipher those antient characters upon temples and obelisks. To Young and Champolli[o]n the honor is due; they have opened a beau.tiful field for the antiquarian. 
Wednesday February 1 7, 1841. In trying to patch up a cold, one often puts off his restoration, so I have found. I have now to begin at the root of the matter and take jal[a]ps and pills and gruel and sweets and what not to cure up my cold. 

Thursday February 18, 1841. Having swallowed vile and nauseous medicines and been roasted alive with hot bricks and bottles of water, I am now mending. Out tomorrow. 
Works of Imagination of Merit. Mackenzies', "Man of Feeling," "Man of the World" etc, Goldsmith's "Vicar of Wakefield" Crabbe's "Tales of the Hall" Lady Montagues' Letters Dr. Johnson's "Rassalas" Horace Walpole, "Castle of Otranto" Clara Reeves, "Old English Baron" Sir Walter Scotts Works generally. John Wilson, "Lights and Shadows of Scottish Life" Lesage, "Gil Blas," "Devil upon two sticks" etc. ---------"Elizabeth: or the exiles of Siberia" Swifts "Letters" "Gulliver's Travels" 
' 
Cervantes, "Don Quixote" 
Charles Lambs "Essays of Elia" 
Fieldings "Tom Jones" etc. 
Smollett's "Humphrey Clinker" 
No use to mention farther --paper and ink would not serve me to mention the works, even those well spoken of, which have flooded the world. 
Friday February 19, 1841. My friend T. tells that he lost a new hat at a party at John C. Spencer's of Albany last week. A[nd] when he had made thorough search, he says to the porter, "Well, do you know where my hat is? -twas quite new." 
"Oh, sir, the new hats have been gone this hour or more!" 
Saturday February 20, 1841. Machiavelli--no man more evil.spoken of, more detested. Thro' life a zealous Republican. His manual of king-craft is called the Prince. Wrote besides comedies, comments on Livius, History of Florence, public despatches and private memoranda. Two characters united in him. His moral sensitivity at once morbidly obtuse and morbidly acute. How could he write at once the noblest and the meanest sentiments? Look at the prevailing moral feeling of the time in Italy. Upright and honorable in his public conduct. (Macauley) Sunday February 21, 1841. What a world! Whom can we trust? Do I not know a Dr. of Divinity at once a liar and a drunkard? Yet that man so carries himself before the world that few, perhaps none, suspect him not to be a good man. I know not a more miserable case. How must the amiable wife tremble lest her tippling husband should be exposed to the scorn of the world and lose at one fatal moment his character! Perhaps many such instances exist among those whom we little suspect. The hearts of their friends are agonized in secret whilst they see those they love on the very brink of ruin. 

Monday. February 22, '41. One would think that the Devil was let loose in the land. Our newspapers are filled with acounts of murders and every heinous crime. Most persons think such offences against our laws are increasing to an alarming extent. Whilst at the same time they profess that it is next thing to impossible to convict a man capitally, and that there is a growing dislike against hanging. Of these things I cannot judge; I am apt to be incredulous where statistics are wanting because the mass are apt to magnify present evils. 
Tuesday February 23, 1841. Here is a revolting case of depravity and wicked now under examination in our city. One Dr. Squires of Rotterdam seduced a girl by the name of Fryar living near him, by the promise of marriage. She became pregnant. 
It seems he had no wish to marry her, but to produce an abortion and falsify his engagement. He retired therefore to Ballston, sent to her that he was sick, ready to die, and begged her to attend him. She went to him, he wished her to let him take the child from her (7 1/2 months gone). She refused; finally by the aid of another rascally Dr. named St. Johns, he forced her to permit them to operate upon her, and from her [took] the child. Her friends brought an action against them. How 'twill.end I dont know. 
Wednesday February 24, 1841. Twenty-eight years of age yesterday--28! Oh misery, how time hurls me along towards the grave! 28 years old? It is time now to give over with planning and designing and take to the sober realities of life. At 28 [a] man's plans should all be laid for the future and whatever he designs to do he should pursue with all his might. The anniversary of every important event in one's life is a proper time for looking back upon life, for recalling past mercies, for gratitude to God. What more appropriate for this exercise than one's birthday. 

Thursday February 25, 1841. Thoughtless, witless, mind shrivelled up to the magnitude of a pin's head, barren of an idea,of the tamest, flattest, tritest idea. To think above the commonest thing impossible. All my brains would go into the skin of a pea! My imagination might have ample room to ramble in a nut shell. Misery! How one feels when such a feeling of imbecility comes over him when he knows that laziness and mediocrity paralize all his attempts to rise. 
Friday February 26, 1841. Yesterday, Fast Day for colleges and other Seminaries of Learning. M. Allen of Albany preached in our chapel. Ned I knew in Coll. when a student. There was a pious consistent Christian, respectable scholar, aye more, and beloved by all. Now is a successful minister of the Presbyterian Church. 
Young men are thoughtless beyond remedy, one would think. What will make them serious? While many a pious man is praying for them this day, some of our youths are serving the devil more faithfully than ever, seriousness is banished from their thoughts. They bless the Fast Day because they get rid of a recitation but further they care not a fig for it. This reminds me of their conduct in a time,, years gone by, when the typhus fever raged in town and college. One of their number died, they became alarmed and the very evening of his burial, (solemn time one would think) met to take into consideration the propriety of leaving Schenectady and going home to more healthy spots. Twas determined in the affirmative, so far nothing was wrong, but when the meeting broke up so elated were some thoughtless fellows that I thought college would not have stood the racket. So soon was all the seriousness of death erased from their minds. 
Saturday February 27, 1841. Let an officer of College do his whole duty consciously and he will surely get many unpleasant tricks put upon him by the worthless. Last night I slept with N. at West College. Between 1 and 2 while we were sound asleep, there came a tremendous crash against his door; it flew open and in came a thousand china crackers all on fire. For five minutes they were flying about the room in all directions and filling it with smoke and sulphur. So much for being unpopular. He may be imprudent, yet one dislikes to have his imprudencies so meanly visited, in such a secret malicious way. I know Reed and Chester have had their windows stove in, in the night, with stones and clubs. 
Sunday February 28, 1841. We cry out against every thing modern and profess to admire antiquity. Men dont live so long now as in old 

times, are not so moral and religious, not so prudent and industrious, and in fine ministers are not so orthodox, nor eloquent. Indeed if one could believe all he hears of modern degeneracy he should believe the world already fit for destruction. This everlasting outcry 
Monday March 1, 1841. ... carries no conviction with it to my mind. I must believe that preachers are not inferior now to those of olden times. We have shallow pates, so had they. They had Souths and Tillotsons and Barrows and Edwards. We have Chalmers and Hall, Thalnik and Wayland, not a whit inferior. For my own profit and satisfaction ... 
Tuesday March 2, 1841. ...[I] would a thousand times prefer to sit in my room and read a sermon of some of their worthies than go to church to listen to a .babbler. -He***** my bile by his stupidity. 
Wednesday March 3, 1841. Query. Whence is the disagreement? Yates and McIntyre assert that [in] principal and interest Union College has received 800,000$ from the State. The Trustees, or rather 
Dr. Nott,  who  dictates  and  rules  everything,  reports  less  than  
400,000$.  
Thursday  March  4,  1841.  The  Inauguration  Day of  our  new  
President.  Poor old man. He leaves his quiet mansion at North Pond  

for the bustling splendour of a public life. With all the hopes which the people have in exchange of rulers, may they not find that they have exchanged a bad for a worse set, 
[Gap from MArch 4 to April 16, 1841.] 
Friday April 16, 1841. Mark this day with white******. I read thus from the New Yorker of this date: "Ap. 16, Married by Rev. Mr. Fowler at Utica, Jona. Pearson of Schenectady to Miss Mary L. Hosford of the former place." I am told the happy couple started immediately after their marriage for Philadelphia in company with Miss Urania Sheldon and her neice, Miss H. Annable. It is to be hoped these 2 who have thus been united for life will live in much harmony and happiness, not expecting too much from this world's treasures as their experience has already taught them. They have exchanged interests. Each carries the others hopes and happiness. Let them not disappoint each others expectations. 
947 
Having found a partnership for life with the capital of all their best affections and hopes, let them manage wisely the stock and reap an abundant present reward and an eternal life hereafter. 
Phila[delphia] Saturday April 17, 1841. Indeed distance is nothingi[z]ed. Yesterday I breakfasted in Utica; today I dine in Phila. with my good friend Mr. Gillette. 
Sunday April 18, 1841. Dr. Bethune at his chapel. A man --a minister, I mean --may wear long hair, "soap locks" if you please and have inward grace (outward he lose[s] by such fooleries), yet I feel displeasure with Dr. B. for such seeming affectation. Does he not love an oddity of look and dress? So my poor judgement would decide. Sermon sound and orthodox, my company pronounced. I said amen but professed to dislike his whining, unnatural tones. Noth'less if he is a pious, godly and faithful minister, let not small faults detract much from his merit. 
Monday April 19, 1841. All the "Bears" have been visited: "Chinese Museum," some-kind-of-a-"Rama" of Jerusalem, "Laurel Hill" and Fairmount. Having glanced at the whole and fatigued ourselves to death, we got home at sundown. In the evening at a party at Mr. Earp's --delightful. 
Tuesday April 20, 1941. [No entry.] 
[Wednesday April 21, 1841] In Sept. '40 I gave some eminent names of Chemists; here I continue them. Dead and living. 
Vauguelin, Chromium GadolinM. Berthier Forchammer John Dumas, Gmelin Rothoff Tuppati Gay-Lussa"Theory of Volumes." Berthollet Bergman Labanaque Stromeyer Cadmium Arfwedson, Lithium D_buciner Thenard Dr. Hope Eden. M. Bussy Magnesium W _hler G_t AluminiumGlucinium Yttrium Greyton-Monreau Dulong Heat Pelletier Tennant+ } Iridium +Osmium Descotils } Dela Rive Dr. Dauberry} Dr Prout} On Atomic Theory Higgins} Dr Dalton} Sir H. Davy Potassium, Barium, Strontium Ladium Calcium Dr Wollaston Palladium Rhodium Pettit Lassaigne Parrett Lampadius Marcet Clement Desormes M. Zeise Prof. Chem. Copenhagen Orfila On Poisons Dr Christison Eden. On Poisons Berzelius + } +Silicium Sirconium Thorium. Risinger } Cerium Children Thompson Klaproth Uranium Laugier Lagerhjelm Sir Michael Faraday Electricity Mitscherlich Berlin Wenzel Saxon Chem. 

Proust Basil Valentine Antimony Agricola Bismuth Paracelsus Zinc Brandt Arsenic & Cobalt 1733 Wood Platinum Cronsledt Nickel Gahn and Steele Manganese D'Elhuyart Tungsten M_ller Tellurium Hielm Molybdenum Gregor Titanium Hatchett Columbium Lefsh_m Vanadium Brisson Stauy "Cristallization" Brichholz Turner Allen Pepys Dr Black Carb. Acid Dr Ure Chem Die Marriotte His Law. Danielle Lavoisier F. Marchaud Pelonse E. and I. Simon. Pfaff. 
Dr John Davy (Bro. of Sir Humphrey Davy) M. Matteucci Prof. Ital. Electricity Gustave Rose Henry Rose "An. Chem." James D. Forbes Esq. "Researches on Heat" 
Thursday April 22, 1841. [No entry.] 
Friday April 23, 1841. "Extract of a letter from a member of Un. College to his Classmate in Danbury Conn. dated Feb. 29, 1820": 
Death has entered our walls and executed his commission at a time when we least expected it. He has taken Huntington from the Senior Class, after but 3 days illness. But God sends mercies in the midst of judgements. It seems as tho'. he intended this stroke of his providence expressly to change the face of things in this college. We believe it has had a good effect; yes, we know it: for our eyes see it, and what is surer evidence, our hearts feel it. 
The day after his death, Dr. M. (Dr. Macauly?) met the two higher classes and warned them by the horrors of the damned and the glories of heaven to consider this death as a warning to us to flee from the coming wrath: and concluded his remarks by saying that if any should be anxious to converse about the salvation of their souls they might find him in his study on a certain evening. The first evening there were 4 or 5. The meetings were continued from that time and have increased ever since. It is now supposed that 30 are hoping that they have passed from death into life. This town and towns around us are favoured with a general outpouring of the Holy Spirit." Religious Intelligencer pub[lished] at New Haven. 
Saturday April 24, 1841. The above account is the only one I ever heard of any extensive revival in Un. College. A still more wonderful season was that in June and July of '39 when Mr. Knoff preached and converted many sinners. He is a wonderful man, his labors are accompanied by the power of the Spirit and wherever he has preached in nearly all our large cities much good has been done. He speaks of the same gospel of Christ as other men, but he has that power of moving the sluggish hearer that few have. He has little book-learning; he has learnt in the school of Christ, is eminent in 
Jtf-9.
piety, strong in prayer. Experience has been his school mistress. He knows human nature and what will move and affect the mind of man. In stature he is low, thick-set, and robust in health. His chest is broad, giving ample room for his lungs which he uses so much. He said to me, "Bro. P., I am built like a wedge with the little end down." Very true, too. 
Sunday April 25, 1841. In the winter and spring of '39, Mr. K[noffJ held a long series of meetings in the Pres. Meeting house in Utica. There was a wonderful stir among Christians and sinners, and the fame of him and his doings reached us. Mr. Backus and Dr. Nott on consultation with others thought it well to invite so successful a preacher to our city, hoping to obtain a like blessing. As Mr. K is a Baptist, they applied to our church to give him the invitation. I was deputed to visit Clinton when he was there preaching for a season and talk with him about the subject. 
Monday April 26, 1841. I did so. He seemed favorable to the schem~ but still wished me to go home, see the Church and find out if they were ready for the blessing of the Lord and were unanimous in wanting him to come. Well, all the matters were settled and about the first of June he came and began to preach in the Baptist Meeting House, the first Sabbath, I think. The house soon became too strait for the people that came and on invitation from Mr. Backus he moved to the Pres. house which is the largest in town. He stayed nearly 5 weeks among us preaching prayer meetings. 
Tuesday April 27, 1841. As a preacher he had some bitter opposers even among Christians, many warm friends and admirers. Those who heard him once or twice only went away in disgust. The more one heard him, the better he liked his sermons. Mr. K. is a very eloquent man. He has no grace, but the true eloquence of Nature. He is an original thinker, a true genius although uncultivated. Hence many of his strong and forcible comparisons and figures would offend the cultivated mind. Some would even excite a smile, which would shock some pious souls. Some would seem blasphemous to one class of persons and so the poor man was picked to pieces. Yet throwing away all the chaff from his sermons and there remained a rich abundance of wheat profitable both to saint and sinner. 
Wednesday April 28, 1841. Dr. Nott who of all men I ever saw is the most free from prejudices and the most liberal in his opinions, said "He is a great preacher, very great. I never heard any man preach so many good sermons." And to show that the Dr. really spoke his sentiments I have seen a manuscript book in which he had written down most of Mr. K's. sermons: or at least full notes of them. So much for his preaching, although by the by I ought to say that anyone could but be struck with his apparent sincerity and anxious desire to save souls. His manner in the pulpit or out plainly showed this. 

Thursday April 29, 1841. His measures are another source of trouble to many. Before sermon he requested Christians to hold a prayer meeting either in Church or in the lecture room. After sermon he requested all who wished to be prayed for to come forward to the front seats next to the pulpit. Then he with some other persons kneeled down and prayed for those who had requested it. The converts were requested to address the assembly. 
The next morning perhaps a prayer and enquiry meeting was held where Mr. K. and some leading brethren talked and prayed with those who assembled. These were his measures; objectionable indeed only to those who would abuse them as they would every other. 
Friday April 30, 1841. But we may with more truth speak against his measures if indeed they have resulted in evil! Between his converts and others I have been able to see no difference. How many there were, God only knows, and will reveal at that [time?] when all men's deeds are shown openly. There may have been between 300 and 400, of whom perhaps there were 50 or 60 in College. 
Sometime since I asked Mr. Burt of the Pres. Church whether those who joined his ch[urch] held out well. He answered that he saw no difference than other members of the body. Having known those young men who were converted in College, I must say that as a body I have not known a more consistent class of Christians. Some 
were from among the wildest boys in College. Many of ...  
Saturday May 1, 1841 ... them have become preachers. future time I shall endeavour to give a list of them.  At some  
[Gap from May 1 to June 21, 1841.]  
{ Monday June  21,1841.  Without  religion  how miserable  is man!  

without vision how object! how beastly! When we see the fall of a once gifted, intellectual, religious man into drivelling idiocy, it makes one blush for human nature and tremble at our danger. I am led to these relections by a sad case of lunacy, by the loss, the hopeless loss of a once exellent minister. I speak of the Rev. M. Fowler, pastor of the 1st Presbyterian Church in Utica. Several things seem to have conspired to erase the poor man: first, the death of a beloved wife, poor health, and above all perhaps certain slanderous studies set on foot by mere malignant busybodies of his congregation. 
Tuesday [June] 22, 1841. By advice of physicians the poor man resigned and started from Utica with the design of sailing for Italy in a few days. The weight of his afflictions still preyed upon his mind and when he reached New York he seems to have been entirely insane. He was found by a friend and taken to his house and from thence sent to Hartford Asylum. Slander bites like an adder, its sting is venomous and to a sensitive mind unendurable. 
Tricks are by no means rare in and about Coll: and so long as they are innocent no one cares. Seldom do they get to such a pitch as this. Some nights since someone scaled Prof. Jacksonis fence, forced the lock of his stable and cropped or rather shaved his horses neck and tail so short as to make a most ridiculous looking beast of him. This mischeif is too wanton and malignant, it is worse than painting [of horses] which was once done upon good old Dr. Proudfits antient white nag. 
[After some blank pages, the Diary is resumed as follows:] 
German Theologians living and dead. Those marked "R." are or were Rationalists 
Grimm R. of Un. Duisburg. F.A. Krumacher R[ector], Un. Duisburg. Eichhorn R. Un. Goetberger, "Literary His." Henke R. Got. Bauer R. Got. Michaelis R. Got. Doderlein } Gabler } Altdorf. R. Martini } J.E.C. Schmidt Ee. His. R. Keil Leipzig R. ***schirner Leip. R. De Wette Basle 
R. Hegel "Phil of Religion", now the leader. R. Eck R. Hezel R. Bahrdt Halle R. Semler R. Halle. Baumgarten R. Halle. J.G. Knapp father of celebrated Theo. R. Halle. Rosselt R. Halle. Gruner R. Halle. J.L.Schulze Halle. A. Freylinghausen Halle. G. C. Knapp R. Halle A.H. Neimeyer R. Halle. Paulus R. Heidelburgh J. Simonis R. Halle. Mursinna R. Halle. Stubensauch R Halle Eberhard R. Halle. Trapp R. Halle. Schlinmacher Twisten Bretschneider author of the bst Graco-Lat. Lex. for the new inst. Hase Nitzsch Wittenberg Tholuck Halle Knapp Ernesti, Wittenberg Dr. Thomas Theremin *******preacher at Berlin, one of the most eloquent evangelical preachers in Germany, has published several Vols. sermons and "Eloquence a Virtue." 

Germ. authors of note not mentioned in the forgoing list. Heyne Wolf Hermann Bockh 0. áMuller Winckelmann "History of Antient Arts. Fine arts Gesner Niebuhr "His. Rome". Hieren Historian Krug "Phil Die." John Muller "His. of Switzerland". Hugs (Eminent *****) Gottengen Steiglitz Poet. Schlegels two brothers, "His. of Dramatic poetry". Fichte } Schilling } Leaders in the new Germ. Phil. Bottiger Goethe Poet. immoral } Schiller Poet. pure } no rivals, nor equals in Ger. Eichorn (son of the Theo.) Now Minister of Education in Prussia. A writer of Eminence in Germany on Law. He wrote a work on Common Law. Hegel, minister of*****. Brothers Grimms Berlin Old Germ Literature. 
Best Germ. Gram. Critics. Dahlmann Basle Political Economy.Von Raumer Berlin Historian and popular writer. Thalopstock ( dead) only Germ. Epic "Messiah." Kotzebue (Killed by Land) very celebrated writer of plays, comedies cheifly--much acted in Germ. Prof. Karl Olfreid Muller (died at Athens 1840). Greek Literature, History and Antiquities. Tobias Meyer Got. Chemist (dead). Weber Got. "On Waves." Wohler (Chem.) Got. Strohmeier dead, Got. (Chem.). Berzelius Swede Chem. Trefurth Chem. Got Gauss Got. Math. and Astron. Thibaut (dead) Got. Math. Dicksen Berlin, "Infinetesimals." Tellkampf Hanover 
The following are eminent teachers in Germ. Gymnasium. Poppo, Editor of Thucydides. Jacobs Greek Reader &c. Cologne. Butman, and Tiersch, Authors of the best Greek Grammars. Matthiae and Ramshorn, Lumpft ,Best Latin Grammars. Doring Rost and Wuste.mann, Gotha, Greek Gram. Grotofends and Hanover and Gottengen Critical Grammar Gr'k. Hensinger Herzog, Gera Schmeider Siebelis, Rautzen Lindemann, Tittan Freidemann, Weilburg, Paranesen Melhorn, Globan. Moser Ulm Gerlack, Basie. Mohius Meineke Gurlitt Bomemass Ellandt and Konigsberg, Struve and well-known Kraft, Hamburg. Math.and Schulze and well-known Koppe, Berlin. Bothe, Manheim, Nex, Eislaben, Richter, Quedlinberg, Herbst, Weslar, Baumgarten, Crusius, Meissen, much known***** Erfurth, Bash, Fulda and Orellis, Zurich. Wulner Dusseldorf. Fortsch, Naumberg. Schmidt and Halle and Stahr and "arestolelia". 
German authors Frederick Von Schlegel, "Phil. of History." Herder's "Phil. His. of Mankind. " Ranke, "Reformation in Germ.," "His. of the Popes." Gervinus, History of Germ. Lit Menzel d[itt]o. Dr. Theodore Vogel, Botany. J. J. Eschenberg, Manual of Class. Literature. 

Bacon's Advancement of Learning: Chap.*** Book I. Dedicated to King James. Praises him for his intellectual and moral qualities, for his learning and piety. The most learned king the world ever saw. ****** him to leave some monument of his genius. 
The Treatise is divided into 2 Heads or parts: 
I. "Concerning the exellency of learning and knowledge and the exellency of the Merit and true glory in the augmentation and propagation thereof." 
He begins to treat this head of his subject by "clearing the way" of the disgraces that have come upon learning from I. "the zeal and jealousy of divines." II. "the severity and arrogance of politicians." 
III. "the errors and imperfections of learned men." 
á The dignity of Knowledge he then seeks I. "in the attributes and acts of God," as shown in the scriptures and in nature. II. Human proofs of the true dignity and value of learning. 1st: the Apotheosis or "relatis inter Devos" of those persons who relieved the necessities which arise from nature: as Bacchus, Ceres, Apollo etc. 2nd: "People and estates are happy when either kings are Philosophers or Philosophers are kings." 3d: Military virtue is increased by learning as in case of Caesar and Alexander. Witness too Xenoph[o]n's retreat with the poor. 4th: Learning is a help to moral and private virtue. 5th: It invested man with power and commandment. 6th: and with fortune and advancement. 7th: It affords to him delight and pleasure. Lastly, "let us conclude with the dignity and exellency of knowledge and learning in that whereunto man's nature doth most aspire which is immortality or continuancy. 
Book Second of the Advancement 1c. "To return therefore where we left, It remaineth to consider of what kind those acts are, which have been undertaken and performed by Kings and others for the increase and advancement of learning. These acts of merit are conversant about three objects. I. The places of learning. II. The books of learning III. The persons of the learned. 
I. "The works which concern the seats and places of learning are 4: 
1st, foundations and buildings. 2nd, Endowments with revenues. 3d, Endowments with Franchises and priveleges. 4th, Institutions and ordinances for government. 
II. The works toutching books are two: 1st ,Libraries; 2nd, New Editions of authors. 
III. Works pertaining to the persons of the learned are: 1st, The reward and designation of readers in sciences already extant and 2nd, The reward and designation of readers of writers concerning any part of science not sufficiently laboured. 

I. Among so many foundations of Colleges in Europe, are the following defects: 1st, They are all dedicated to professions and none to arts and sciences at large. 2nd, The smallness and meanness of the reward for public lectures. 3d, Want of instruments and means for experimenting in sciences. 4th, Neglect of governors of Universities to consult of their good, and of superior persons to visit them. 5th, Want of Intelligence mutual between the Universities of Europe. 6th, There hath been no public designation of inquirers concerning such facts of knowledge as may appear not to have been sufficiently laboured. 
The removing of all these defects are opera basilica, But, the inducing past, may be set forward by private travel. Wherefore I will endeavor to make a general and faithful perambulation of learning, with an enquiry what thereof he****** and write[?] &c. 
Partitiones Scientiarum. Here then follows a[n] "Institution of Human Learning" under 3 kinds. I. Memory, to which belongs History 
II. 
Imagination.[to which belongs] Poetry III. Reason [to which belongs] Philosophy. 

I. 
History is: 1st, Natural 2nd, Civil 3d, Ecclesiastical 4th, Literary 


This "distribution" is not strictly Philosophical (see Dugald Stewart's "Preliminary Dis[s]ertation" and ******* in his Chrestomathia". What branch of science does not require directly or indirectly all the powers of the Mind --Memory, Imagination, Reason and what not? 1st, History of Nature, is of 3 sorts: 1st, History of creatures. 2nd, History of Marvels. 3rd, History of Arts. 
1st, This History is extant á 
2nd, The History of Marvels in nature is deficient. 
3d History of the arts deficient --if "extant" in Bacon's time, how much more now! 
We have had since his time a Linneus and Jussieu in Botany, a Buffon and Cuvier in Zoology. Mineralogy and Geology have both started into being . Now, perhaps, we may say, graver and [more?] talented writers seem to have left this branch of His[tory] to "Wonder"-Makers who write books and peddle them for profit only. As in Bacon's time the wonders of nat[ure] are not collected, so far as I know, into any one volume but are scattered here and there in books of travels and voyages. This branch of history must be more fully treated now than formerly --since we have now applied science to almost every art. 
2nd, Civil History is of 3 kinds; 1 Memorials, 2 Perfect Histories, 3 Antiquities. 

1st, Memorials or preparatory History of Sorts 1st, Commen.taries. 2d, Registers. 2nd, Perfect History, 3 Sorts: 1st, Chronicles or History of Times. 2nd, Lives. 3d, Narrations or Relations. 
1st, History of times. That of Antiquity deficient. The His. of the exemplar states --Greece and Rome --in good perfection save in parts. Desirable: a perfect course of His. of G[reece] from Theseus to Philopaenieu; of Rome from Romulus to Justinianus the Ultimus Romanorum. That of Modern Times deficient [blank space following] which I doubt not has been amply supplied since Bacon's time. [blank space following, in both instances as though to allow for later notations] 
2nd, Lives --Bacon complains that this so fruitful a branch of His. should be left so barren and uncultivated. 3d, History Ecclesiastical. 3 sorts: 1st, His. of the Church. 2nd, {His. of] Prophecy. 3d, [His.] of Providence. 4th, Literary History--of which Bacon says this is deficient. "No man hath propounded to himself the general state of learning to be describedá and represented from age to age." 
[The remainder of the page is blank] 
If he had lived in our times, this complaint would have been reversed; he might justly have lamented that no man could die -his memory must be kept alive by a biography, no matter how insignificant his memory. However, among all the trash, we find many very many exellent works. 
Menzel on Germ. Literature. Gervinus on Germ. Literature. Thomas Wharton's His. of Eng. Poetry. Tiraboschis' Rom. Lit. continued down [to] Schoell's His. Rom. Lit. in its decline. Schlegel on Dramatic Poetry. Dunlop His. Rom. Llt. 
Here again I am happy to find so important a branch of history pretty fully treated, Since his time several authors [have] written very able literary Histories. We have Sismondis on the Literature of the South of Europe, Turner on the Anglosaxons, Hallam His. of the Literature of Europe for the 15, 16 and 17 Centuries. 
[The remainder of the page is blank] 
Ap[p]endages to History: Speeches, Letters Apothe[g]ms 
II. Imagination, Poetry. 

1. Narrative 2. Dramatic 3. Allegorical "In this third part of learning, which is poesy, I can report no deficience." 
[The remainder of the page is blank] 
of which the world is full. 
In Bacon's time it seems that Romance, Novels and Tales had not become so prominent [as] a part of literature as to merit his notice. 
III. Reason Philosophy: 1, Divine. 2, Natural. 3, Human. 1, Divine Philosophy, or Nat. Theology. "I am so far from noting any deficience, as I rather note an excess." 
Appendage to Inspired and Nat. Theology: The science of Spirits_ 2nd, Natural Philosophy: 1, Practical. 2nd, Speculative. 3d, Prima Philosphia or Summary Philosophy. 
[The remainder of the page is blank] 
[BIANK LEAVES numbered in pencil in upper right of recto Jl-J7] 
American Living Authors, their principal works etc. 
Mrs. Mary E. Brooks --called by Southey "Maria del Occidente," native of Medford Mass., now living at West Point, about 45 years old, "Zophiel or the Bride of Seven." 
A. B. Street of Albany. Poet, particularly fine in descriptions of nature. A poem called "Nature" 1840 delivered before the College of Geneva. Clerk in Attorney General's Office. 
Miss Anne C. Lynch, a young Poetess, Providence. Dr. W. E. Channing near Newport, R.I. Poet. James 0. Rockwell (deceased), Poet. Mrs. Louisa P. Smith '(dead), Poetess. Wm. Landor, Phila. Edward E. Poe, Phila. 
H.T. Tuckerman, Boston, William Falconer. Mrs. Seba Smith, Boston .. Henry C. Carey, Esqr. James H. Lanman, Esqr. N. Y. Writes for Hunt's Com. Mag, Am. 
Steam Navigation. George Bancroft, Esqr., Collector of the Port of Boston, "History of U.S., 5 Vols." 
J. Prescott Hall, Esqr. "Ferdinand and Isabella." 

Wm. C. Bryant, "Thanatopsis, "Evening Wind, Editor of "Evening 
Post." John Inman Horace Greeley, Editor of "New Yorker." Col. Wm. L. Stone, Editor of "Life of Brant," "Life of Red Jacket." Theodore Sedgwick, Esqr. Absalom Peters D. D., Editor of Quart. Reg. and Am. Eclectic Washington Irving, "Sketch-Book," "Knickerbocker's New York." 
J. Fennimore Cooper, "Spy," &c. Wm. Wirt, "Letters of British Spy," "The Old Bachelor," "Life of 
Patrick Henry." Hon. D. D. Barnard, Albany, Several exellent literary discourses. Rev. W. C. Brownlee, Writings Against the Catholics, "Deity of 
Christ" 
H. 0. Brownson, Ed. and almost sole writer of the Boston 
Quarterly Review, extremely radical. Joseph Rodman Drake, "Culprit Fay." Miss Sedgwick, "Stories for Young Persons," "Redwood," "Hope 
Leslie," "Home," "Poor Rich Man &c. ,1'"Means and Ends." Mary Howitt "Hope on Hope Ever," "Sowing and Reaping," "Strive and Thrive," "Who shall be greatest?" Wm. Howitt, "Rural life in Eng.," "Visit to Remarkable Places, 
Old Halls, Battle Scenes" &c. Theodore Fay, "Countess Ida." Bishop Mcllvaine of Ohio, "On the "Oxford Tracts," 
G. P. Morris. Mrs. Gilman, Ed. of the "Ladies An. Register," "Loves' Progress," 
"Recollections of a New Eng. House Keeper." Lewis Cass, "France: its King, Court and government." 
H. W. Longfellow, "Voices of the Night," other Poems. Dr Marsh, Pres. Vt. Un., "Prelim. Essay to Coleridges' Aids to Reflection." Gen. Armstrong, "Newburgh Letters, Notices of the War of 
1812." A Cleaveland Cox, "Christian Ballads", "Althanasion." Dr. Renwick, Prof. Col. Coll N. Y., "On Steam-Engine[s]," 
"Mechanics," "Chemistry," "Lives of DeWitt Clinton and Hamilton." Theodore Dwight, Esqr., "History of Conn." Francis Leiber, Ed. of Conver. Lex., "Political Ethics." Joseph Story L.L.D. "Commentaries on Equity pleadings," "Comm. 
on Constitutional Law." Best (Jurist) in our country. (Lawyer) William Leggett, Political Writings. 

C. Hoffman, New York, son of Murray Hoffman, Editor of Knickerbocker for a time. "Winter in the West," "Greyslear." 
Dr. Wayland, Pres. Brown Un., "Limits of Human Responsibility," "Political Economy," "Moral Philosophy, " Vol. of sermons and several addresses. 
Albert Barnes, Phila., Critical notes on several books of the Old and New Testaments. Addresses. 
John Pierpont, "Airs of Palestine and other Poems." 
Jacob Abbott, "Rollo books," "Caleb in the Country and Caleb in Town," "The Young Christian." 
Dr. Alcott, Boston, "The Young Husband," "The Young Wife," "The Young Mother," &c. 
Hazard Statist, "Collections," Ed. of "Statistical and Commercial 
Register," Phila. Sparks, "Life of Washington" &c. Gulian C. Verplank, N. Y., ex. Prof. in the Gen. (Epis.) Theo. Sem., 
in  the  N.Y. Senate  '38-'39,  "Evidences  of Christianity,"  Vol. of  
Addresses.  
Mrs. Emma C. Embury, N. Y.  
Mrs. M. St.Leon, Land.,  Phila.  
Miss E. Lestie, Phila.  
Miss Hannah F. Gould, Newburyport,  "Vol. of poems.  
J. W. McVilton, Md.  
Grenville Mellen, N. Y.  
Wm. B. Tappan,  Mass.  
Prof. J. H. Ingraham,  N. Y.  
Park Benjamin N. Y.  
Prof. W. J. Walter, Pa.  

Mrs. Sarah J. Hale, Boston. "Northwood," Ed. of "Lady's Book." Mrs. Sigourney, ""Vol. of poems". Ed. of "Lady's Book" Fitz Green Halleck, N. Y., "Fanney and other Poems" Mrs. H. Beecher Stowe, Cinn., Ohio, "Female Education" Dr. Hawkes, N. Y., Editor N. Y. Review., "His. Church in Va." Dr. Channing, Boston. Prof. Stewart Andover, "Commentaries" and Philological Essays. Wheaton (Minister to Berlin), "On International Law," "Reports," 
"On Captures." Hoffman Doctor Juris, Baltimore. "Legal outlines," "Master in Chanc[e]ry." 
N. P. Willis, N.Y., Ed. "Bro. Jona.," "Pencillings by the Way," Some 
poems. Charles Davies, Various works on Elementary Math. 


9S-9 
James G. Percival, "Prometheus," .Vol. Poems. (at New Haven now). Robert M. Walsh, Phila., Ed. Am. Quarterly Rev., "Sketches of conspicuous living characters of France." Dr. Robinson, Works on Palestine. Prof in Theo. Seminary, N.Y. Greek and English Lexicon 
T. W. Thomas, "Clinton Bradshaw." John L. Stephens,, Esqr. N.Y., Travels in Egypt Arabia, Syria, Russia and Central America. Howard Malcolm, Pres. of Georgetown Coll., Ky., "Travels in 
Burmah and Sou th Eastern Asia." John Neil Simms, "Kinsmen," "Border Beagles," "Guy Rivers." Jacob Binn Moore, "Sketches of governors of N.E.," Quart. 
Register [ 
No entries for June 23, 24, and 25, thespace from p, 66-70 being used for the summary of Bacon's Advancement of learning and those from 70-73 for listing a miscellany of American writers] 
Monday July 26, 1841. 
Beginning with this eve, our Commencement exercises are con.tinued till Wed. eve. Benj. F. Butler Esqr. this eve. addressed the Senate in a pleasant oration. How a dabbling in politics fools a man. This is an amiable, a religious man I am told --his looks show it. But in the last great election how uhamiable he appeared in Tammany Hall addressing the******* multitude of partizans and pursuing the infamous Glintworth to justice. Too high-minded, he was thought to be, to let party zeal run away with him. 
Tuesday July 27, 1841. Kent, who followed in an oration before the Phi Beta Kappa Society this afternoon, made a happy address. Elaborate, finished, beautiful. The most readable of all of our Commt. orations. Kent is quite counter-part of Bancroft, orator before the Literary Societies. How easily the politician shines out of Bancroft's speaking. How [he] uses the artifices for catching applause. 
Wednesday July 28, 1841. Not so much as one word to say of Commencement only that [it] was as formerly. The usual no. of boys, young men, had their "sheep-skins" given them, played the orator 5 minutes and disappeared in the crowd to mingle and flourish in their short day with the world and be followed by others. The evening levee was given as usual. Gents and Ladies trod on each others toes and heels, stared, and went home to bed well pleased with the honor of having spoiled the Presidents carpets with ice cream, tobacco, spittle. 

Thursday July 29, 1841. Dr. Sprague is the child of simplicity. His amiableness "Married by the Rev." wins everybodies love who***** 
J. L. Backus fortunately knows him. 
Stephen L. Magoun, Esq. of Hudson. His innocent hobby now is the collecting of autographs to Miss Mary A. Pearson .. Once he delighted in pamphlets and gave 1200 or 1400 vols. to Princeton College. Then started for New Hampshire. 
Dr. Alex. Proudfit has a want of modesty as troublesome as it is unusual. He said to the Pres. of the Senate not long since, "I understand, Prof. R., that you want an orator to address the Senate next Commencement. Ans. "Yes sir, we are looking for one." Well, then, I can recommend a gentleman to you of first abilities and probably one of the best writers in this country. It is Prof. John Proudfit of Rutger's Coll!! (his son). I th.fnk he would accept 
Friday July 30, 1841. This old gentleman, being one of the Trustees, has for two years begged a degree of D. D. for the same son John. This year he begged so hard with tears in his eyes that he fairly obliged the Trustees to give it by his importunity. 
Saturday July 31, 1841. Classmates at commencement Bob Strong, Case, Van Santvord and Ashman. 
Nichols, who has been with us 3 years past, leaves probably to take the Kingston Academy, leaves Coll., I say, and very much against his will. Because 1st, Dr. N. and others dont like him, and 2nd he is determined to marry and Coll., so they say, has'nt got money enough to support another married Prof. So he is "choked off." Why Dr. N. does not like him: he is not popular with students, too caustic, suspicious, provoking them to anger and keeping their minds sour. N's friends must all confess, I think, that he is a hard man to bear with always. Sometimes he's "crusty," selfish and alas! mean, yea abominably mean in his dealings. I have felt it --but no matter, let that pass, since he's going. Although a most disagreeable man, yet he is an accomplished scholar and his quiet .... 
[The remainder of the page is blank] 

Sunday August 1, 1841. There are Christians who think more of the church than of their God. These professed disciples are vastly religious--some from contention and others from venerations. Soldiers of the cross! Yes, litterally, they fight their life-long. Sons of the church ! but not of God --fearing, venerating her --not Him. 
Monday August 2, 1841. The naturalist never finds a spot wholly devoid of interest. Where air, earth, or water is found, he finds no want of objects of interest. If it was ever thought that a naturalist must be a traveller, no mistake was greater. Let a man confine himself to his own county and his life is not too long for its full exploration. 
Tuesday August 3, 1841. There claim his notice the mineral resources of his vicinity, its geological formation, plants fit or unfit for the use of man or beast, trees fit for timber, Animals, Birds Quadrupeds, Fishes, Reptiles, Insects and their habits and uses. 
Wednesday August 4, 1841. "White's "Nat. His. of Shelbourne" is a very good model for me. Although not extensive, it is entertaining. "The "Journal of a Naturalist," modeled after the former is another useful book for the observer of nature. 
It is astonishing what a volume of useful facts an observing man might collect in in the course of his life if he would but take the trouble to note them down. 
Thursday August 5, 1841. "The Character of Thos. Jefferson as exhibited by his own writings by Theodore Dwight." This author is undoubtedly one of those unhappy or rather, I should say, unpopular men called "Federalists" --a greater bugbear, whether true or false, never existed in political warfare. If Dwight's book is worthy of confidence, Jefferson is certainly not the most estimable character. Abating one half for the effect of predjudice and then there is enough [to] injure the fame of the great man. 
Friday August 6, 1841. Cheifly Modern Artists, Painters, etc. Am[erican] 
Allston Cole Durand Page Weir 

Chapman, N.Y. City, painted the "Baptism of Pochahantas" in Capital at Wash. 
Mount 
Huntington 
Doughty 
Frothingham 
Audubon, Great work on birds. 
Grey 
Sully, Phil. 
Alexander 
Neagle 
Czrich 
Shaw 
Harding 
H.Robert 
Friday August 6, 1841. A gentle Scotch Johnny of humble origin was sent to Edenburgh to be educated for a minister. In the process of time he left the University and returned home. He preach[ed] in the parish church on the following sabbath and probably, like many young preachers, shot over the head of his hearers. At the close his old nurse hobbled up to the pulpit and said, "Johnny, did not Christ say to Peter, Feed my flock.?" Yes. "Did he not say, Feed my sheep?" Yes. "Did he not say Feed my lambs?" "Yes. "Then, Johnny, dont hang the hay too high for the lambs." 
Saturday August 7, 1841. I have heard more than once that the servants of King Henry VIII were ordered "to stir the straw (of his bed) lest some daggers might be therein concealed". This quotation was made to show what? --that King Henry slept on straw alone. The order to the Lord Chamberlain, as appears from the "Lib. of An.ecdote," is that "a y[eo]man with a dagger should search the straw of the King's bed that there be none [nothing?] unhealth[y] therein." Directions are then given for the making of the Kings bed in which a "bed of downe" is spoken of as well as sheets, "fustyans," bolsters," "pillowes," "corteyns," "rych counterpoynt that lyeth thereon" &c. Instead of King Henry's sleeping on straw alone, it appears that he had a most sumptuous couch and a deal of folks to make it up for him. 
Monday August 9, 1841. Cabriolets, contracted to "cabs," were introduced into London as it appears in 1820. I never saw them till last [year] when they first were used in New York. Omnibusses are also of French origin and have been used in our large cities these half a dozen years or more. 

Tuesday Augustl0,1841. When Dr. Sprague was here last in July at our examination he told of [an] affair which he had with a travelling lecturer last spring. The Dr. had just delivered a sermon on the death of the President. A committee called on him for a copy for publication. He looked for his sermon and it was gone. Every hole and corner of his study was searched. If it were taken, who was the theif? No one had been in but the travelling lecturer and he had had free and constant access. The lecturer left for Troy and so firmly was the Dr. impressed with the idea of his guilt that he sent [a] constable and search warrant after him, but no sermoná was found. So the matter rested. Lately the Dr. was looking over a bundle of old sermons and came across the lost one. He still thinks the man stole it but returned it secretly. 
[The remainder of the page is blank] 
Wednesday August 11, 1841. 
[The remainder of the page is blank. There follow one page headed Sept. 25, 1841, then another headed Dec. 28, 1854, for neither of which is there an entry. Then the following long entry without date.} 
The following course of Legal Studies I found among the papers of the Late Prof. Savage: who is the author I dont know. As it is good, I have transcribed it. 
Preliminary Studies. Regular course Para[l]lel course Blackstone's Comm. Letters on the study of Law. Kent's [ditto] . Hume's Eng. Vols. 1 & 2. Wooddeson's Lectures. Robertson's Charles V, Vol. 1. Eunonaus. Crabbe's His. Eng. Laws. Reeve's [ditto]. Hale's His. of Common Law. Sullivan's Lectures under titles "Statutes," "Aliens," and "Ambassa.dors." Swift's Digest. Bacon's Abr. Hoffman's Legal Outlines. 
Domestic Subject, Regular Course: Husband and Wife, Proper titles in Bacon's Abr[idgment] Roper on Husband and wife. Dane's Abrgt. Chap 19 (90 art.7) and 46. 
Parent and Child. Dane's Abrgt., Chaps. 51. 60. Bingham on Infancy. 

Guardian and Ward. Dane's Abrgt. Chap. 35. 
Master and Servant. Dane's Abrgt. Chaps. 47. 59. 
Abbott on Shipping (title "Master and Seaman") 
Principal and Agent .Dane's Abrgt. Chap. 30. Paley on Agency. 
Principal and Surety. Principal and Surety. Copartners. Dane's Partnership.  Dane's Abrgt. Chap. Abrgt. Chap. 52 Mon 1SO. Theobald tagu or Gow  on on  
3 Relations  

Paralel Course: Reeve's Domestic relations. Bingham on Coverture. Collinson on Idiots and Lunatics. Highmore on Lunacy. Shelford on Lunatics & ------. 
Jacobson's Sea-Laws. Book 2nd Chap. 2nd. Livermore on Agents. Fell on Guaranty. Abbot on Shipping title "Part-owners" etc. Collier on Partner.
ship. 
4. Domestic Subject, Regular course: Bailments. Dane's Abrgt. Chap. 17, 23. Story on Bailments. 
Corporations Dane's Abrgt. 22, 26, 143. Angell and James on Corporations. Title to things personal by 1. Occupancy. 2 Blackstones Comm. Chap 26, 2 Kent [ditto] Sec. 36. 
2. 
Succession. 2 Blackstone's Comm. Chap 29 

3. 
Marriage. 2 Blk. Com. Chap 29 ,2 Kent. [ditto] Sec. 28 

4. 
Judgement. 2 Blk Com. Chap 29 2 Kent do. Sec. 28 


5. Contracts a. Agreements. Dane's Abrgt. Chaps. 1, 11, 153. Chitty on Contracts. 
5 Relations ( continued) Paralell course Jeremy's Law of Carriers. Jones on Bailments. Kidd, (Kyd) on corporations. 
Proper titles in Bacon's Abrgt. Comyn on contracts 2nd Ed. Ord on Usury. 
6Domestic Subject, Regular course: b. Bills of Exchange. Danes Abrgt. Chap. 20 Baley on Bills. 
c. Assignments. Dane's Abrgt Chaps 14-24 

d. Insurance, Dane's Abrgt Chap. 40. Read also Chap on "Maritime Law." 
e. Obligations under seal. Dane's Abrgt. Chap. 144 
6. Gift and Grant. Dane's Abrgt. Chap. 32 arts. 1,2,3,4 Long on 
Sales  
7. Bankruptcy. Dane's Abrgt chap. 18  
8. Testament  and  Administration.  Dane's  Abrgt.  Chap.  29  
Williams on Executors.  
Relations ( continued)  
7 Paralell course:  Chitty on Bills.  
Sheppard's Toutchstone title, "Obligations"  
Roberts on Frauds  
Cooke's Bankrupt Laws  
Coopers Bankruptcy  
Sheppard's Toutchstone  title "Testament."  
Roberts on Wills  
Roper on Legacies  
Toller on Executors.  
8 Domestic Subject Regular course q. Prize  of war.  
****ton on Captures.  
Of Personal  
1. By act of the Party  a. Reception.  Dane's Abrgt. Chap. 2  b.  

Distress c. Accord. d. Arbitration. Dane's Abrgt. Chap 13 e. Lien [ditto] 44 Montaguon Lien 
2. By op[p]eration 3. Blackstone's Comm. Chap. 2 of Law 
3. By suit a. at Common Law, m. Actions in General. Danes Abrgt. Chaps 3-7 n. Actions local and transitory. Espinasus' Nisi Prius Angell on Limitations 
9 Relations. (continued) Paralell course: 1 Wheaton's Reports 507, app. note 3. Remedies Proper titles in Bacon's Abridgement. Bradley on Distress Lelwyn's Nisi Prius. Kyd on Awards. Caldwell on Arbitration. Blanchard on Limitations. Wilkinson [ditto] 
10 Of Personal o. Action of Assumpsit. Dane's Abrgt. chaps. 175 (art. 
6) 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 16, 21, 25 27, 28, 31, 33, 34, 36-39, 41-43, 45.50, 53-57. p. Action of Debt. Dane's Abrgt. Chaps. 139-147 149-152. 
q. Action of Covenant, Dane's Abrgt. Chaps. 101-107, 115-120. r. Detinue s. Ac. of Trover, Dane's Abrgt. Chap. 77 t. Replevin [ditto]. 171 u. ac. of the case [ditto] 58, 59-62, 64-79 v. Trespass de bono -.[ditto] 172 w. Slander [ditto] 63 Starkie on Slander x. Assault Battery, Dane's Abrgt. Chap. 172 y. ********[ditto] 148 z. Account [ditto] 8 and Audita Jurela [ditto] 186 act. 1. 

Remedies (continued) 
Sargent's Law of attachment. Cushing on Trustee Process. Holt on Libels 
12 Of Personal 
3. By Suit, Regular course. b. Sir Chaucery. Dane's Abrgt. Chap. 1 (Art. 
7) 114(art.27). 225. J. Maddock's Chaucery Chaps. 1-7 *****. Newland on Contracts 
c. Admiralty. Brown's civil & admiralty law, Chap. 2 
Real 1 Its Objects. a. Lands and heriditaments Corporeal. b. Heriditaments Incorporeal. 
m. Common n. Ways o. Offices 
13 Remedies(continued) Paralell course Encyclopedia title "Equity." Hall's admiralty Practice 1. Wheatons Reports, app. note 2nd. 2. [ditto] app. note 1. 
Property, Regular course, Paralell course. Read the titles marked Coke on Lyttleton in Italics from Cruise's Digest. Preston Estates .. Wight on Tenures. Gilbert [ditto] 
14 Real. 1 Its objects cont. p. Franchises q. Rents 2nd Quantity of estate or interest in things real a. Estates of Freehold 
m. 
Estates in fee simple n. [ditto]. fee tail o. in tail apres possibilita[t]e and c. p. for life q. by the c[o]urtesy r. in dower t. jointure s. Upon condition u. Mortgage 

b. 
Estates less than Freehold m. Leases and terms for years n. Estates from year to year o. At will p. at sufferance 


Property ( continued) 15 Regular course, Paralell course. Angell on Water courses, on Tide Waters. Dane's Abrgt. Chaps. 108-111, 113, 128. do. 129. [ditto]130, 131, 132. 
2. 2 ******** 43. n. 3.4 + 46 n. 5. 112 Powell on Mortgages (Rand's Ed.) 

Bacon's Abrt. title leases. Woodfall's Landlord and tenant Dane's Abrgt. Chap. 132. 16 Real 
3. 
The time of Enjoyment a. In remainder b. In reversion 

4. 
The number and relation of owners a. Joint tenancy b. Tenancy In common ______ c.Copar-[t]enancy 

5. 
Mode of Acquisition a. Decent. b. Purchase. m. Escheat n. prescription o. Private act of Parliament p. King's Grant+ q. Devise r. Deed s. Judgement of recovery and c. u. Extent etc. 


Property (continued) 17 Regular course Paralell course Fearne on remainders, Dane's Abrgt. Chap. 135. Read in Cruises Digest the titles in Italics( _____ ) Dane's Abrgt. Chap. 134 Powell on Devises, Sheppard's Toutchstone tit. "Deed," Hays on Limitations in Devices etc. Roberts on Fraudulent Convey. Fearne on Executory Devisnces. Lugden's ********. 
18 Real 
6. 
Its uses 

7. 
Trusts 


Real 
1. By act of the Party a. By Entry. b. Writ of right m. Writ of right properly so called. n. Writ in nature of a right. c. Writ of Entry m. Upon decision n. Upon Intrusion o. Upon Alienation p. Upon Mortgage 
d. Ancestral Possessory 
19 Property (continued). Sander's on Uses and Trusts. Dane's Abrgt. Chaps 144, 223. 
Remedies: Cruises Digest. Remington on Ejectment. Booth on Real actions. Stearnes on Real actions. Dane's Abrgt. Chap. 128. Jackson [ditto] . Adams on Ejectments by Tillinghast. Roscoe on actions respecting real prop. 
20 Real 2nd By Operation of Law as Remitted Of Regular course 
1 Turisdiction Parliament. Read these titles in King's Bench Common Pleas. Bacon's Abridgement, Exchequer also Duponcease on Assize and Nisi Prius Jurisdiction. Ecclesiastical, Dane's Abrgt. Chap. 225. Admiralty [ditto] 187, 188. U.S. Courts State Courts 

11. Officers. Attorneys, Dane's Abrgt. Chap. 15. Clerks [ditto] 187. Sheriffs and Constables [ditto] 7 5. Coroners. Remedies ( continued) 21. Dane's Abrgt. Chap 104 art. 29. Courts. Paralell course 
22 Of Courts. __ _ 
III. Powers. Dane's Abrgt. Chaps. Attatchment. 220. arts. 14-31 Fine and Amercement, 187 Habeas Corpus, 172, 220 Prohibition, 186 art. 4 Injunction Mandamus ,186 art. 2. Writ of Errors} Su persideas } 13 7. 13 8 Certionisi 138 Execution 136. --.23 Readings and Practice at common law Regular course, Paralell Course: Chitty on Pleadings. Gould on Pleading. Stephen [ditto]. Saunder's Reports and Notes. Bacon's Abridgement titles. Lawes Pleadings in Assumpsit. "Amendment," "Nonsuit." Stone's Pleadings, "Juries," "Trial," "Verdict," Dane's Abridgement Chap. "Damages," "Costs," "Bills of..." 121-124, 154, 169, 170, 173, "Exceptions," "Leire facias," 185, 189-196. "Escape," "Rescue," "Bail." Hammond on Parties, "Summonsáand Service." Lidd's Practice. "Tender". 
Pleadings and Practice of Equity. Maddock's Chancery, Chap. 8 etc. Forblauque's Treatise on Equity. Barton's suit in Equity. Beame's Pleas in Equity. Cooke's Pleadings. Blake's Chancery. Hinde's Chancery Practice. Hoffman's Master in Chancery. Jeremy on Equityn Eden on Injunctions, Dane's Abrgt. Chaps. 225-226. Redesdale on Pleadings. 
24 Maritime Laws. Regular course, Paralell course.: Abbot on Shipping. Commercial code of France. Marshall on Insurance. Emerigon. Ingersoll's Ruccus. Philips [ditto]. Potheir on Maritime Contracts. Select cases from Rep. U.S. Courts. Jacobson's Sea-Laws. Cairnes, Lex Mercatoria Americana. Bacon's Abrgt. tit. Merchant and Mach. Berecke and Stevens on Average by Philips. Azurn's Maritime Laws. Dane's Abrgt. Chap. 224 
Law of Evidence Starkie on Evidence. Philips on Evidence. Dane's Abrgt. 80 -100. Peatre on Evidence. Rosiac on Evidence. 

Criminal Law Russell on Crimes (Am. Ed.). Dane's Abrgt. Chaps. 197-222. East's 
Pleas  of  the  Crown.  Chittys  Criminal  Law. Archbold's  Pleadings  
andEvidence.  
Constitutional  Law  
Storys Commentaries.  The Federalist.  American Constitution.  Rawle  

on the Constitution. Selected Cases and Speeches. Sargent's Consti.tutional Law. 
Civil Law Gibbon's Roman Emp. Ch. 44. Pothier on Obligations. Justinians Institutes. Domat's Civil Law. Brown's Civil and Admiralty (select titles) Law Vol 1. A. ***iffs Rom. Law. Butler's Horae Juridical. 
Law of Nations 
Martin's Law of Nations. Ward's Law of nations. Rutherford's 
Institutes. Vottell's [ditto]. Encyclopedia Americana. Bynkershock's Law (titles) ,"Natural Law," "Prize" of War. 
Saturday September 25, 1841. Un. Coll. Palmer's Antiquities of the English Ritual. It is wrong to prejudge an author, I know, but before getting through the first 50 pp. of this Churchman's book I could not but imagine that he had a case to make out when he started to write his book and by hook or by crook was determined to accomplish it. In other words, Mr. P does seem often at a loss for good authorities and therefore for want of themá takes poor ones. I hope I may see reason as I read on to think otherwise; if so I will say so. Dr. Gardners credibility of the Gospel History I like much better. I fancy him an exceedingly candid and fair reasoner, seldom straining a point [to] make a case. 
Sunday September 26, 1841. Few religious publications in these days have made more noise the the "Oxford Tracts" --for this reason I have undertaken to read them. In No. 1, the oft-repeated story of the "Apostolic Succession" is put forward as the sole stable authority of a clergyman of the church. When these temperabilities are taken from them, they must fall back upon that for influence with the people. Churchmen may talk of Ap[ostolic Succession] much as they please so long as they do not make that of more importance than Godliness in their Ministers. This I fear they do in many cases. 

Monday September 27, 1841. There is none other name under Heaven given among men whereby we must be saved but the name of Jesus. Read Tract 2nd "For the Times" and you will be inclined to say that the author would have the above precious sentiment read thus: --"There is none qther name under Heaven given among men whereby we must be save but the Church --the one Catholic and Apostolic Church. 
Tuesday September 28, 1841. In tract 4 will be found some strong assertions which I should say would startle even churchmen if they are pious and reasonable men. We have from this [tr]act that Communion is generally neccessary for salvation and that it can only be administered in the church. 
Is not the reference that we can not be saved who do not 
belong to the Ep[iscopal] Ch[urch]? 
Wednesday September 29., 1841. Of these tracts Dr. Potter says, "In the hands of an inexperienced, unbalanced Christian they would be dangerous, but he who is well grounde~ and fixed in the faith may read them without harm." Prof. Reed, a high church-man is disposed to apologize for them --that they are generally good but that the authors are somewhat imbued with Monarchism, which has devel.oped its spirit in these writings. 
Thursday September 30, 1841. How easy to find fault when we can not mend --topside down when we can not build up again. These learned and pious [men], as they surely seem by their writings, may err honestly in some points. We may differ. We may seek to demolish their fabric and the authors. But can we build on their foundation a more comely edifice with fewer faults? 
Friday October 1, 1841. From an old newspaper (1771) --"On Sunday night the facetious Dan Gunston was buried or, in his words, "put to bed with a shovel." One of his jest books was thrown in by way of a pillow. Eng[lish] [news]paper. 
Saturday October 2, 1841. An anecdote of a late Chancellor's father. After the death of his first lady, he rose one morning with the whimsical resolution of marrying any one of his maids who should first appear upon his ringing the bell. He rang and the chambermaid came up, to whom he abruptly said: "Get yourself ready and go with me to be married". The silly girl, treating the affair as a joke, refused and withdrew. He rang the bell the second time when the cook-maid 
97( 
appeared, to whom he said: "Well, my girl, I intend this day to make you my wife: go and dress yourself in the best you have, and order the coach to be ready immediately." She took him at his word, dressed herself and, coming down stairs, was met by the silly chambermaid who asked her where she was going: to whom she answered: "Abroad: I have my master's leave." She had scarcely uttered these words when her master came down and took her by the hand to the coach, which drove to St. Rennet's Church where they were married. Whenever the gentleman was upbraided by his acquaintance and relations, his usual reply was, "There is no prudence below the girdle." The fruit of this marriage was a late chancellor. 
Sunday October 3, 1841. [no entry] 
Monday October 4, 1841. Famous cattle [show] at Syracuse last week at which Dr. Nott delivered an address, his famous speech on labour which he has spoken in N. York, Utica, Schenectady &c., somewhat modified, they say. As the report goes, however, it was illy received by the audience and the speaker hissed. When the question came up for giving a vote [of] thanks and requesting a copy for publication, it was long a question whether the meeting should not refuse to pass either. The Dr's. friends finally prevailed and with reluctance they voted their thanks &c. He came home in a huff and observed that he did not [observe?] many horned cattle there but saw many two.legged ones! 
Tuesday October 5, 1841. Fame 'tis said has an hundred tongues but every one of them is a lying tongue. What I wrote yesterday about Dr. N's failure is today positively denied by one who was there and heard all, by Archd. Powell. He says the speech was well received and that there was but one dissenting voice, a Mr. Fuller of Madison Co., a rabid Loco-Foco and bitter opponent of the abolitionists. 
Wednesday October 6, 1841. How strangely are men's minds warped by early education and prejudice! Where is that really liberal andá high-minded man who will not anathematize his bro[ther] --his diffusing bro. in religion --and prescribe his opponent in politics? I am led to ask this question from the sign of the present trend. They may not be worse than the former but that matters not so long as we now know that every man sees a beam in his bros. eyes and abuses him for his misfortune. Is there a more uncharitable sentence than that of Bishop Onderdonk's on the Protestants in his annual address 

to his brethren in the Convention of New York? However he might buy[?] the comforting idea that he belonged to the only true apostolic and Catholic church--the church by way of convenience, for heavens sake could he not have let the poor Protestants alone or, if he must speak of them, could he not speak one word of extermination[?] for their sins in view of all the good they have done since the days of Wiclif and Jerome of Prague and John Nuss? 
Thursday October 7, 1841. When I hear such sweeping denunci.ations of Protestants, which seldom occur, I cannot but look back to see what they have done for this poor heathenish world since the µays of Luther and Calvin and Melancthon and******* and Knox. Who are the promoters of Missions? Let the poor heathens who have been converted to the truth by Prot[estants] answer. Where do not their Missionaries plant the standard of the *****? What tribe or na.tion does not hear their words of peace and truth proclaim[ed] in the gospel of Christ? If there be any thing good--any work of charity -.any deed of self-denial and patience for the benefit of man and the Prot[estants] are not formost, then I close my mouth. I speak no more as their apologist. 
Friday October 8, 1841. Indeed I pity the Episcopal Ch. if the doctrines --the proud doctrines of the "Oxford Divine" --are to gain the day in that or this country.****** to be uncharitable or judge**** ****but****** say forbearance is overcome. My patience and charity have suffered a terrible assault from the reading of the "Tracts." The repeated changes**** upon the "Apostolic Succession,," "The Divinely Appointed Commission," "The levity of the Church," &c., the vast importance attributed thereto, lead one against his wish to think these far more important in the estimation of these "Divines" than a well-ordered life and conversation and a change of heart. 
Saturday October 9, 1841. The Tract on the Ember days and the Advent I like; they contain good spiritual and godly instruction. 
If any news is worth noting, it is McLeod's trial at Utica for the Minister of [our Durfee on to Caroline?] which was burnt at Schlesser in the winter of '37. It creates uncommon interest. Hard swearing on both sides; has his sentence or acquital next week. 
Sunday October 10, 11841. Dupin says in his Ec[clesiastical] His[tory] 
973 
"In this age ( 4th Century) they acknowledged the fall of man by the sin of Adam, the necessity of baptism in order to [achieve?] salvation even with regard to infants. 
Monday October 11, 1841. They tell amusing stories [about] Mr. Hasler, now head of our course but formerly Prof. here. With all his mathematical talents, which are very considerable, he had no tact for managing boys--hence in his recitation room they reigned ascendent. Often while in the midst of a demonstration upon the blackboard, he would get so absorbed that his pupils passed out of the room unnoticed. At the close he would say, "Therefore, gentlemen, you see so and so," and turning around had the mortification to find himself alone. 
Tuesday October 12, 1841. fr is told also of this singular man that he often made his own bread at home (why I dont know) and came to his recitation room with [a] flour overcoat. They tell also of his making his son's cloths, and that he cut them by laying him flat upon the cloth and marking out his figure. 
Wednesday October 13, 1841. Once he attempted to offic[i]ate in Chapel, others being absent. He commenced the Lord's prayer and either his memory failed him or he was confused by the novelty of 
his position;  so, stopping,  he said  to the  students,  "I cant  pray.  I  
never  prayed  in my life."  
Thursday  October  14, 1841.  His absent-mindedness  is well estab. 

lished if this be true which is told of him, that he once took a letter from the office and was so intent upon reading it that he made a mis-step and fell flat in the street. He was nothing disturbed by this, but read on to the end and then got up. 
Friday October 15, 1841. The more one reads the New Testament and the best Ec[clesiastlcal] Authorities on primitive practices, [one] can not I think but own that all existing denominations have departed somewhat from the antient customs. There is evidently some obscurity on the point. Each conflicting sect professes to be apostolic. The most important doctrines of the New Testament are clearly taught. Upon ch[urch] gov[ernment] he gave few commands, And even the Apostles taught more by their practice than by their preaching. 
974 
Saturday October 16, 1841. In these days ministers want authority: perhaps they always did. We have come to think no better of him than of other men. He is not to us an ambassador of Christ, but a gentleman of education perhaps, and an orator it may be. We trifle with his character as as we do with other men's. We trumpet his faults, we pick his sermons. 
Sunday October 17, 1841. When we reverence the minister of the Gospel more, his words will be felt with power. Whatever will increase this, truly innocent and proper in itself, I would favour. The Churchman would say, "Let priests be duly ordained by the successors of the Apostles, the Bishops, and they have this needed authority. I say amen, if it be true that such an ordination will add one grit to the clergyman's influence upon men's minds, for although I am by no means convinced that such is the mind of Christ, yet so harmless a[n] thing should not be omitted when the interests of religion demand it. 
Monday October 18, 1841. Mag. Scan. was committed in "Dorp" some time since which set men and women all agog with astonishment. The story simply was that a Hatter's (Jim Van Horne's) simple, silly wife took music lessons of an Englishman (Resten). They fell in love with each other; this led to crim[inal] con[duct]. Jim found it out and laid a trap for the adulterous pair. They were caught together in very suspicious circumstances. Mr. Resten had to flee the town and the Lady was banished her husband's bed [and] board. 
"The way of the transgresso.r is hard." 
Tuesday October 19, 1841. Almost everyone who reads our newspapers fancies our country abounds with crime, now beyond any previous time. It may be so. But sad as the fact is, one cannot but smile at the causes which are assigned for this dreadful evil by some of our wise heads. The politician, viewing everything through the fog of his prejudices, gravely charges his opponents with it. "Here you see the effects [of] Whig bribery and corruption!" "Alas! the tendency of Loco-Foco principles and Tammany Hall agrarianism will ruin us viz. --corrupt our morals and make our country a nation of villians and cut-throats!" 
Wednesday October 20, 1841. Then the religious parties urge their reasons: "The prevalence of ultra, radical, heretical notions in Theology and the abounding of a cold heartless religion. 

Then the Abolitionist 11 [Can] virtuous principles and actions prevail so long as the down-trodden African is held in chains"? And more to the end of the alphabet. Bank and Antibank, Speculation Politics, Religion, Slavery--all, all, in their turn account for the prevalence of crime. Perhaps all these feuds tend to the same end. Who knows? One thing is pretty sure, no crime escapes the notice of our editors; no, not even the merest pec[c]adillos. The public seems to be mad after news, and the editors are eager to gratify them. 
Thursday October 21, 1841. Several clergymen complaining to the Bishop of ________ at his visitation of the progress and success of certain Methodist preachers, his Lordship replied, "The most effec.tual way, gentlemen, of silencing them will be to outlive and out.preach them." 
Friday October 22, 1841. The day before Mr. Fordice (a London Banker of '72) stopped payment, he called on a banker who is a Quaker of whom he desired the loan of 20,000 ***. On being refused and going away dissatisfied, the latter called him back and said, "Harkee, friend, two dice have hurt many alone, but I promise thee, Four-dice shall never ruin me". 
Saturday October 23, 1841. Lord Clive proposed to his Government that he would pay off the whole debt of the nation, which then amounted to 140,000 *** on condition that Parliament would vote him 8000 troops to accompany him to Bengal. ****** how would he do it? by robbing the Bengalese? Oh! rare Lord Clive! 
Thursday October 24, 1841. In the early part of M. Whitefield's life he was preaching in the open fields when a drummer happened to be present who was determined to interupt his pious business and rudely beat his drum in a violent manner in order to drown the preachers voice. Mr. W. spoke very loud but was not as powerful as the instrument: he therefore called out to the drummer in these words: "Friend, you and I serve the two greatest Masters existing but in different callings: you may beat up for volunteers for King George, I for the Lord Jesus Christ. In God's name, therefore, dont let us interrupt each other: the world is wide enough for us both and we may get recruits in abundance." This speech had such an effect that the Drummer went away in great good humor and left the Preacher in possession of the field. 

Monday October 25, 1841. A person in conversation lately was ridiculing part of a celebrated speech, i.e., "They blinked with their eyes like owls in the sun-shine of the sun," when an Irishman, one O'Fermor, cried in great rage, "Ariah, and by my skoul, it is a very proper expression, to distinguish it from the sunshine of the Moon." 
Tuesday October 26, 1841. When Lord North, Prime Minister in 1771, was attacked by a mob, he cried out, "Gentlemen! Gentlemen! Is this liberty? Do you call this liberty"? --"Yes, (replied a wag) and great liberty too." 
Wednesday October 27, 1841. Mr. Alderman Wilkes (1771) received a letter by the Penny Post containing only this single question, "What is the Government?" To which the Patriotic Alderman returned for answer, "A Set of Knaves and fools." 
Thursday October 28, 1841. The following amusing account of the close of a feast at Windsor Castle (1771) I find in an old newspaper. The occasion was on the Installation of 7 Knights of the Garter. "After dinner the new regulation of the Lord Steward took place about the scramble ... 
Friday October 29, 1841. ...as it was thought a better plan of economy to carry the victuals to the mob, than to let the mob come to the vic.tuals. Accordingly the windows of the castle were thrown open and the provisions were thrown out to the gaping crowd below. A cloud [ot] hams, chickens, pastries, haunches, and delicacies of every kind, with knives, forks, plates, table cloths and napkins, their com.panions, darkened the air. 
Saturday October 30, 1841. This was succeeded by showers of liquor: some conveyed in bottlesá properly corked, but the greater part in rain. The scramble was more diverting than any part of the preceding farce. You would see one stooping for a fowl and a great ham falling plumb on his back; another having a fork stuck in his shoulder, and looking up to secure himself from more of the arrows thus flying by, received a creamed apple pye full in his face. A Beefeater, having lost his cap in the scuffle, had his loss repaired by a venison pasty falling inverted on his head. A bargeman who had secured a noble haunch of venison was retiring as fast as he could with his booty and ran with it full against the back of Lord __ _ and made an impression on it so like a gridiron that all the mob, after they had ceased their laughter, cried out, "Smoke the merry Andrew." 

Sunday October 31, 1841. I Car. Sc. 11 v. and 60, 90. "Not to keep company, if any man that is called a bro. be ******* covetous or a railer: with such an one, not to eat." 
Monday November 1, 1841. "Be not deceived: neither ....... covetous .... nor revilers shall inherit the Kingdom of Heaven. 11 Ques. How many of the above-named people may now be found in our churches? 
Tuesday November 2, 1841. Covetousness is now plainly tolerated among Christians. It is seldom preached against, much less made the reason of discipline. The Church possesses ... 
Wednesday November 3., 1841. ... now much if not most of the wealth in Christendom. Yet she clings to [it] with the grasp of a miser and spends it on her own lusts or for her own pleasure. Will not the Lord judge her for this sin? 
Thursday November 4, 1841. Railers! The church is full of them. Busy body's --backbiters --slanderers. Wo be to the church if neither covetous nor railers shall be saved! Who then can enter heaven? 
Friday November 5, 1841. Election closed on Wednesday with a complete victory for the Democrats, alias Loco-focos, throughout the state. The party (Whig) which last year was triumphant in the state with a majority of 13, 000 is now in minority 15,000 or 20,000. Causes: Harrison's death, general dissatisfaction of Whigs with Tyler's administration, and consequent apathy and neglect to vote. Whigs are poor politicians; if they get a victory they cant keep it -.they split on little matters. 
Saturday November 6, 1841. Dr. Grant, the missionary physician to the *********, has written a book about them--of some interest indeed, but I cannot help quarrelling with him for not making it more so. What do ***** 300 or 400 pp. *** to prove the ******** Israelites for? I feel no great interest in knowing they are the descendents of the "last ten tribes" but if the Dr. had thought proper to have given a better amount of their manners, customs, religious rites and creed, he would at best [have] pleased one reader better. 
Sunday November 7, 1841. The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper has been much quarrelled about by Christians because they were learn.
978 
ed beyond what is written. We have Trans-and Con-substantiation 
--we have believers in the "real presence" and believers in the 
symbolic presence --and why these disputes? Want of child-like 
faith. We must know more than is written. 
Monday November 8, 1841. Three in. of snow. These long dreary 6.mos. winters are enough to make one sigh for the "palmy south." A Frenchman who committed suicide left the following lines upon his table: "My advice was not asked when I came into the world, therefore I think myself at liberty to go out of it without consulting anyone." 
Tuesday November 9, 1841. Charles Fox being at a polite assembly, somebody asked the young Minister if he could devise any new method of raising a supply without taxing the lower orders of the people: to which he instantly replied that a capital [tax] import upon every woman that painted of five guineas a year would bring in an immense sum, and fall only on women of the town, women of quality and their humble imitators. 
Wednesday November 10, 1841. From an English paper of 1771. One day last week, an officer of the customs at Rochester searched a young lady's high head on an information, and found concealed in her roll a large quantity of foreign lace which he seized: it is thought this new mode of smuggling has been practiced with great success but, by the above discovery, the ladies heads will be often subject to an examination, which will discommode the economy of their hair. If this fact should induce the ladies to lower their heads to a moderate standard it will be proof that Custom House officers are a useful body of men. 
Thursday November 11, 1841. "Nov. 7" ( 1771 Charlestown S.C.) "At the adjournment of the court of General Sessions on Monday last, Stephen Dykes was burnt in the hand with the letter "M" (for Manslaughter)." "Margaret Ryle was branded in the cheek with a T: (for Thief)." "Demsey Griffith was branded in like manner and sentenced to suffer 3 mos. imprisonment unless he can give security for his good behavior for a twelve month and a day; Frederic Harper (for horse stealing); John Robinson (for petit-larceny) and Ann Howard (receiver of stolen goods) had sentence passed upon them at the same time viz., Harper to lose his right ear and receive 3 9 lashes on his bare back, Robinson to receive the same number of lashes at the usual corners, and Ann Howard to receive five lashes on the bare back and stand in the pillory one hour from 11 to 12 o'clock; all on Tuesday the 3d of Dec. next." From Penn. Advertiser" Nov. 1 771. 

Friday Novemberl2, 1841. Any one unacquainted with the past and knowing the present state of criminal law would be astonished at the above extract. Our present mild and humane laws recognize no mutilation of one's person as a penalty for crime. Even the extreme punishment --death--was attached to an immense number of criminal enactments. Now but few crimes are punishable with death. Imprisonment for debt is practiced in but few states. Murder and treason are punished with death in all --arson and rape, in few. A few years hence we shall witness the entire abolishment [of] capital punishments and the substitution of imprisonment for life. This is the real humane and Christian plan for punishing offenders. Immersed in well-regulated and healthy prisons, they will spend their lives seperated from the society which they have injured; they will have the advantages [of] reflection and instruction, and if any situation can be hoped to afford advantages for their reformation it will be this. 
Saturday November 13, 1841. Of all the rare things in this world I do believe an unprejudiced and unbiased mind is the rarest. How strange that the mind should be so universally wedded and enslaved to an opinion! In religion all preach charity as the cheifest christian grace, and yet who has it? All profess to be followers of Christ -.would he not rebuke them if he were now upon the earth as he did his disciples who wished to call down fire to destroy the Samaritan Village? á 
Sunday November 14, 1841. From this same uncharitable spirit have arisen the lamentable differences and dissentions among Christians. In great degree, at least. Most denominations agree in the fundamentals of religion but divide and quarrel about minor points. Whereas if this blessed grace, charity, abounded in the Church all might consistently unite in harmony and good feeling. 
Monday November 15, 1841. An Irishman giving his evidence at Old Bailey and speaking of a woman, said "he always found her at his house when he was absent." 
Some time since, a wit in company with other gentlemen, went into a certain tavern and cried, "Waiter, bring me a bottle of hie haec, hoc: do you hear a bottle of hock." But after having waited some time, and none being brought, he rang the bell and asked the waiter why his order was not obeyed: who readily answered, "I thought you had declined it." 

Tuesday November 16, 1841. A gentleman reading a paragraph in a New-Castle (Eng) paper of a person's having married a Lady of fortune who was dumb, an Irishman who was by cried out, "Arrah by my shoul and he was very lucky, for if he cuts her throat after he's got the money, she cant tell who did it." 
Wednesday November 17, 1841. (Oct. 29, 1771) "A man at Wauds.worth (Eng.) has undertaken to drink a butt of beer in 14 days: he began on Wed. last, on which day he drank 9 gals and a pint. Great bets are depending." 
"The late celebrated Dr. Brown courted a lady for many years though unsuccessfully, during which time it had ever been his custom, when in company to drink the lady's health before that of anybody; but he was observed one evening to omit it: a gentleman reminding him of it said; "Come, Doctor, drink the lady your toast. The Doctor replied, " I have toasted her these twice seven years, and I can not make her Brown, so I'll toast her no longer." (Eng. paper. 1771) 
Thursday November 18, 1841. Friday afternoon as two sailors (just come home in an East Indiaman) were passing by St. Paul's in their way to the play, they took particular notice of the statues around the church: one asked the other if he knew who those men were. Not I, says the other. A person passing by told them they were the 12 Apostles. "The twelve apostles?" (says one of them), "why I can only see six." "Why Bob," (says the other), "would you have them all on deck at once? Why they are at watch and watch, I suppose." (Eng. paper. 1771) 
A correspondent has sent us the description of the dress of a modern fine fellow. A coat of light green, with sleeves too small for the arms, and buttons too big for the sleeves. A pair of fine Manchester staff breeches, without money in the pockets. Clouded silk stocking but no legs. A club of hair behind, larger than the head that carries it. A hat of the size of a six-pence on a block not worth a farthing". (Eng. paper. 1771.) 
Friday November 19, 1841. Temperance societies have made a world of noise these 1 S years: have progressed, never flagged. Whatever is done now with vigor and spirit is deemed excitement short-lived and followed by a reaction. This is partly true, partly 
9Bl 
false. A good, virtuous enthusiasm need never be succeeded by a relapse into vice. No more need the zealous temperance movements of this day be followed by in temperance. But Ultraism will die whether it be in politics, religion or temperance. "To drink a drop of alcohol in any shape is a sin per se: this is ultraism, the ultraism of some over-zealous, right-intentioned, it may be, but wrong-minded preachers of reform. 
Saturday November 20, 1841. A good cause cannot be sustained by such broken weapons. The courageous soldier must have arms of the right temper. It is not expedient, not useful ordinarily, to drink what contains alcohol--is a much better proposition. This can be sustained by facts. This is demonstrable, and commends itself to every man's reason. "The Bible never sanctions the use of the fermented juice o( the grape." Ultraism again --it is a weak cause that needs such arguments. Temperance does not. John came neither eating bread nor drinking wine and they said he was mad, but Christ came eating and drinking --behold a gluttonous man and a winebibber. Was not our Saviour's food and drink such as was commonly used in Palestine? 
Tuesday November 21, 1841. Besides Ultraism, an intemperate use is often made of realy proper weapons. A bungling workman may cut his own shins with the best tools. An unskilful artist can never paint a picture if his brushes and paints are ever so good. So, in sustaining a good cause with lawful arguments, they must be used skilfully. Why have the late efforts to reclaim the drunkard been eminently successful? Once it was not so. Now the poorest is dealt kindly with --he is led by the hand, encouraged, cheered on to the path of virtue; formerly he was denounced as a poor, worthless, vagabond. Men grow wiser. They find ... 
Monday Nvember 22, 1841. ... this will never do, that the drunkard can and must be reclaimed by utmost kindness. The latest movement has been the formation of [a] Society of Reformed Drunkards called Washington Temperance Soc. They were first formed in Baltimore about a year since and now have extended to most of our large cities. 
Tuesday November 23, 1841. The chairman of the Executive Committee of the New York State Tern. Soc. was Mr. Taylor; he was editor of the Tem[perance] -Recorder, has now resigned. This may be called an instance of both Ultraism and intemperate zeal. Nobody likes him. A most impudent, meddlesome busybody. He would tear a leaf out of [a] bible if he thought it sanctioned the use of wine or alcohol any. At a wedding I once heard him affirm it as his opinion that our Savour did not change water into wine! What then? --that he merely gave it the appearance of wine and deceived the wedding.party therewith. Oh shocking folly! How much may the best of causes be injured by such silly and disgusting perversions of truth! 

Wednesday November 24, 1841. As to Temperance in Coll.: Few of the students, I believe, as well as profs. ever use any wine or spirits. Temp. speeches,_ pledges, and soc[ietie]s, we have had. They have served their purpose and then rested until revived again for an especial purpose. Just now a new temp. pledge has been handed round. All the faculty have signed it. The immediate occasion was to save if possible poor Y. It was started by R. To prevent suspicion, however, and defeat his purpose. However its ostensible purpose was to benefit students. Of course all fac[ulty] must subscribe. Twouldn't do for one to refuse, oh no, one whole undivided interest must bear upon the students. Thus R. persuaded Y. to put down his name. 
Thursday November 25, 1841. Will this save him? Nay, I fear. His mind is weak, irresolute, nervous. He knows his danger yet miserable man can not refrain. A little excites him, crazes him, maddens him. I have been told that already he has had delerium tremens. Alas for a minister of the Gospel --the husband of a lovely wife, father of a young and dependent family--to be so far sunk in this slough of in temperance. 
Friday November 26, 1841. A more miserable man I know not -.incurably intemperate, over ears in debt and extravagant, an upbraiding conscience and clam[o]rous debtors, a wife lovely but on the borders of the grave, a young and helpless family to educate-.why if the man is ever sober I should think he would be crazed at the complication of his miseries. For these he is to be pitied. May heaven send repentance and reformation to him. And this is not all. He is an unprincipled man --the greater shame to him, has an unbridled tongue and slanderous. Few escape its venom. 
Saturday November 27, 1841. Louis Philipe said to one of his friends, "I am the greatest monarch in Europe". O yes, all must acknowledge your skill in governing the French. "No, but you do not understand me. I am the greatest monarch and I will tell you why. I am the only King in Europe that blacks his own boots!" 
983 
Sunday November 28, 1841. That most delightful al[l]egory of Bunyan, the "Pilgrims Progress," is inimitable. Children read it with pleasure, grown people with profit. You may never tire with its facinating simplicity. There never was a more original work -it has no likeness that may be so called. Bunyan copied his own mind, not another's. He knew too little of books to be a servile imitator. The Bible and Book of Martyrs were his library; his study, Bedford prison. What a culprit! Honored walls to contain such a prisoner! All his accusers, Judges, are dead but he yet lives. Yea, he has left his prison and made the acquaintance of the whole world. Who does not know John Bunyan, the tinker of Bedford in his "Pilgrim's Progress" and "Holy War"? Into what language has it not been translated? 
Monday November 29, 1841. Dr. Livings of Albany, one of our Examining Committee, says of Mr. David Wood (who lately died at Albany) an exellent thing. He had never been a professor of religion, seemed to have been in the constant practice of religious duties. He had lived a bachelor till about 2 months past --on the evening of his wedding on his retiring he said to his wife: "I have an old practice to which I am very much attached, which I have adhered to for many years. If you have no objections I will not give it up now.11 Certainly not, what may it be. "I am in the habit," said he, "of reading the Bible before I retire." 
Tuesday November 30, 1841. An ambitious man has ever a most anxious breast --care and vexation often sour his temper. One favorite scheme thwarted may make him miserable Oh foolish, unworthy passion! may it never enter my heart. How strange that man should think it necessary to his happiness, that he should be distinguish[ed] above his fellows -be pointed at -talked of -that he should have power over the many, who had no contro[u]l over his own inordinate desires! It is better "to be damned to eternal fame" than not be known at all he thinks. See how this itching to be noted sways all from the dung hill to the throne -each in his sphere. 
Wednesday December 1, 1841. In tract 72 (for the Times) we have Archp. Usshers views concerning prayers for the dead. He argues against Romanism that, although the Antient Church prayed for the dead, it was for the dead in the Lord, the faithful, not (as the Romanists do) for sinners in purgatory; that they knew of no such place as purgatory. What use of prayers for the faithful dead? says he, to the profit of the living, showing their grateful remembrance of 



981.
their dead friends and awakening pious emotions. "A profession of their ... 
Thursday December 2, 1841. ... faith toutching the souls' immortality and the future resurrection." Some Antients, however, thought the dead were profited thereby, probably few. None scarcely denied that they ought to be made. 
To a religious, antiquity-loving man nothing can be more facinating than these Tracts. They are written with power, in great mildness. If I would convert men to Episcopacy I would put no book in to their hands sooner than these, or if I would convert Episcopalians to Romanists, in spirit and in fact, I would give them these same tracts. 
Friday December 3, 1841. No. 73 contains some exellent remarks, both just and pertinent. Rationalism, although admirable, nay essential to researches in Physics, is a curse to the church. Some theologians would have but little faith in their systems; reason abounds, and teaches all. "The deep things" of God must be reasoned upon forsooth and illustrated by comparisons of Divine with material. Hence one half of the bitter and unprofitable quarrels among Chris.tians. They must be wise ... 
Utica Saturday December 4, 1841. ... above what is written and take nothing upon faith. They must explain mysteries, what always will [be] mysterious and what perhaps God intended should be such, and objects of faith not of reason, much less of strifes. 
This [place I] canot admire as many do. Noth'less good friends make any place visitable. 
Sunday December 5, 1841. First Pres. Church! Since the unhappy removal of Mr. Fowler and the still more unhappy and scandalous abuse of the Pastor by his own people, this ch[urch] has remained destitute and so they will and ought. They are divided against them.selves. No minister will please all. Alas! the conformity of the ch[urch] to the world. Wherein do they differ --How little{ Who leads in many, nay most vain fashions of the world! In the business of commerce and politics how many Christian professions are wrecked and yet with the full countenance of the Church and the world. In the breaking the sabbath, in the frivolity of dress and ornament, it is hard to distinguish between the world and the church. Alas for the Church! We need another reformation. 

Monday December 6, 1841. The financial affairs of our country are in a wondrous strange state. Let us see. All the states together owe 200,000,000$ or so. Most of them are able to meet their debts, and pay the interest regularly; others cannot; and Mississip[p]i has already in her last election said that she never would. 5,000,000$ of her debt, she says, was unlawfully contracted by her agent, ergo, the poor, innocent, stock-holder [in?] Utica must suffer. 
Tuesday December 7, 1841. Other states, I fear, may follow in [the] footsteps of Miss. and soil their credit by denying their debts. No one can say that there is not some good reason for this. The states have in some instances been most unmercifully "shaved" by their agents and contractors. What have Indiana and Illinois to pay the yearly interest on 30,000,000$? Wheat? Where's the market for it? England wont buy --she'd rather starve; no, she muzzles herself with Corn.laws. Neither will France. Germany dont want it, nor Russia and so on. When Europe takes our corn, then the states can pay their debts, I guess not before, I mean some of therp.. Our N. W. states can grow corn enough for all Europe, but what avails their rich prairies? 
Wednesday December 8, 1841. Then look at our money and exchanges. Scarcely a bank south or west of New York that pays specie. The exchanges between New York City and Phila. (about 100 mls. apart) 4 to 6 pr. ct! and but little hope of things being better for the present. The country is full of natural wealth--corn, cotton, tobacco, and mines of coal and metals, water power and navigable waters, but a miserable, tinkered currency have we. Broken banks are without number. Every man must carry a "bank note list" on his pocket or get cheated. 
Thursday December 9, 1841. Where's the cure? "Matters will work themselves clear in time," say some. So I hope. We have waited now 6 years in vain, we have not touched bottom yet. What will the Bankrupt law do for us in Feb.? 
Here is a question often asked, but time can only answer it. If it only help banks, speculators, and rascals to wind up and trouble us no more with blowing bubbles and bursting them, we too shall have reason to be thankful and take courage. 
Friday December 10, 1841. It is settled that we can have no National Bank. Banks are in too bad odor to be multiplied; we have by far too many now. Had Cong. chartered one, the stock could hardly hardly have been taken up now. What then? Pres. Tyler says, "Let us have offices here and there where there is necessity and the states permit. Let Treasury notes to the amount of say 15,000,000$ be issued and the Customs pledged for their redemption in silver or gold. Let silver and gold coin be taken at these offices on deposite and certificates given for it, and finally let bills cif exchange be bought [and] sold at a premium that will barely pay expences. This is to be submitted to the attention of Congress. 

Saturday December 11, 1841. Utica Canal closed fortnight ago today. Since then the mildness of the weather has opened it --now clear of ice but not navigable, water drawn off on some levels. 
The great leader of the Abolitionists in this country is Alvan Stewart, an odd-looking peice of humanity, and yet a striking figure and man of considerable talents. In an ab[olitionist] convention (I amá told) that met here lately, a resolution was discussed to withdraw from church communion with all but Abolitionists. Whether passed or not, cant say, at any rate a few Ab. here among whom is Mr. L. have withdrawn from the church and meet on the Sabbath by themselves for worship. Conscientious men, doubtless, but deluded and fanatic. Above all things no new tests for Ch. membership should be admitted. The Bible tests are enough. 
Sunday December 12, 1841. A Mr. Adams preached in Pres. Ch. from 36v. John: "He that believeth on the Son" &c. Faith. 1. A Phil.[osophical Faith aside from revelation, good for nothing 2. A Speculative or Intel[lectual] faith. It leans upon Revelation. 3. A Miraculous Faith. Power to work miracles. 4. Saving Faith. Essential to it are (1) Assent of the heart. e.g. **** didnt give assent. The understanding may be convinced but will not yeild. (2) Knowledge. How can they believe if they have not heard &c.? ( 3) Confidence ln the promises of Christ. 
*** The means by which faith is produced. 1. Objects. These we have in Christ, Revelation etc. 2. An action of the Mind on the objects of faith. Truth must not only be presented, it must be considered. 
Some things  are  above  reason,  none  contrary  to it in the Bible. 3.  
Influence  of God's  spirit  -.are  necessary  to  faith  to  break  down  
opposition  
-to give ability  to believe  
-to break down prejudices  
-to interpret  Revelation.  

Cj'87 
-to change the temper of the mind. 
*** Some peculiarities of faith. 1 It is an operative principle -making men act. e.g. Noah, Moses, Abraham, Prophets and Apostles. Should operate now. 2 Is obedient to the revealed will of God --takes all of it and does it. True believer child-like, asks God's will and, knowing it, does it. 3 Humble and dependent Believer feels himself a mis.erable sinner, exposed to Divine law, if save[d], all of Grace. Where is boasting? 4 Faith is growing, like a grain of mustard seed. As the stars at twilight, the longer we gaze, the more we see. Cultivate this faith.*** Have your faith in God. Consider that you cannot heal your.selves. 
Evening sermon, 4 John 48, Not addressed to nobles only, but to Gallileans. Miracles do not always make men believe. e.g. Jews. Not always necessary. Sometimes harden. Scope of text --Impenitent require an inverse amount of evidence before they believe.*** Those who dont intend to be influenced by evidence. 1. Those who design to implicate God. e.g. Pharisies, Sadducees, Lawyers. 2 Some want a vast amount of evidence merely to justify themselves. e.g. Judas said with the rest, "Is it I?" The lawyer said, "Who is my neighbor?" 3 Some ask questions or evidence in mockery. e.g. "Who smote thee?" "He saved others, himself he cannot save." The Atheists say, " I should like to see God." ** Some serious enquiries require too much. 
*** When are men excused for not believing? 1 Inexcusable if he does not believe the truth, the leading truths of the Bible. 2 Inexcusable, if having truth they wait for more before they believe. 
e.g. the servant who had one talent. 3 Inexcusable if they do not put forth corresponding efforts -such as the truth demands. Some admit themselves sinners, yet do not repent. 
Monday December 13, 1841. Oh! rare "Dunc Kennedy!" "Married on Mond. Eve Dec. 13, Rev. Duncan Kennedy to Miss Clarrisa Spencer, Daughter of Joshua 0. Spencer of Utica." So it will read in the papers tomorrow. "Dunc" takes a rib this eve. Spends a few days at his father-in-laws and proceeds to Albany, the scene of his future labors. What I said some where else before this about him I dont recollect, so I thought then and thus wrote. Having attained to a very enviable reputation as a preacher for a young man he has been called to be pastor of the North Dutch Church at Albany, an important station --a hazardous trial --yet he may, probably will, succeed in sustaining public expectation. 
988 
Tuesday December 14, 1841. If however one should regard the 
significant shrugs and nods of his bro. clergymen, there can be no 
doubt that he will fail to satisfy his flock, that they will tire and rid 
themselves of him. Beware of a shrug --it often arises from envy, 
jealousy, the offspring of a wrong spirit. "Two of a trade can never 
agree" No, not even two ministers always. For my own part I have 
more confidence in K's talents and see him an eminent minister. He's 
almost corpulent enough already for a Doct. of Divinity. Besides, 
since aside from merit, D. D. descends in certain churches as an 
heirloom he need not despair of the distinguished honor! 
[Schenectady?] 
Wednesday December 15, 1841. A shame, Schendy., upon our 
Colleges for their stupidity! It is said that in a certain defunct College 
or University in Scotland degrees can be purchased, no merit is 
required. A certain wag sent for a degree for his horse or ass and 
actually obtained one. So it is with many of our Am. Colleges -.
almost any ass can obtain a degree particularly of D. D. 
Thursday December 16, 1841. The inscription on the monument 
over the grave of Jona. Edwards, former Pres. of Un. Coll., is as 
follows: Jonathan Edwards S. T. D. Northamt: Reip. Mass. natus A.D. 
1745 Coll. Nassov. A.B. 1765 et eodem Tutor 1767 ordinibus Ecclesiae sacris Nov. Port. Connect. Reip. initiatus 1769 atque Coll. Concord. Schenect. N. Ebor. Praeses 1796 Vir. ingenio acris. Justi tenax propositi, doctrina vere exunia maximi ****x imbutus atque praeditus, Christinae fidei intemeratae, Defensor, tum fervidus tum praeralidus et in moribus interminatis entiterit. Magnum sui disiderium (x This word is defaced.) bonis moribus reliquit die 1 mo Augt. anus salutis humanae 1801. 
Friday December 17, 1841. The above is cut upon the east side of the stone; on the south side is the fo[llo]wing: "Mariae Jonathan; Edwards Conjugis dilectissimae ****** mesnor hoc est etiam monumentum IPSA, Urbanitate, moribus, pritate viro optima dignissima, ageus, eheu! Submersa fuit, Nov. Port. Reip. Connect, anno Domini 1782; eademque urbs reliquias ipsius habet. 
Saturday December! 8, 1841. This monument is draw[n] in the Pres. Church churchyard. I have copied it for a connection of the President, á who is now preparing a life of him at Rochester. 

Sunday December 19, 1841. This people of Schenect. is a wonderful church-going people. So it seems to me: others have said so, too. A very plain, sober, economical people, more Dutch than Yankee. 
Monday December 20, 1841. This is clear enough. The speculation of 183 7-8, rife all over the country, couldnt move the phlegm of our citizens. They jogged on almost wholly unmindful of the immense fortunes made and lost in neighboring cities. Property therefore has not attained a fictitious value. Ren ts are cheap. Lots are cheap, so that almost [all] mechanics own cottages of their own and become a permanent population. 
Tuesday December 21, 1841. This is moreover a very plain-dressed people. There is no place of its [size? kind?] so regardless of fashion and show in dress. In fine, if one can put up with the Dutchness of this Dutch city, its hogs, forlorn aspect and want of spirit, why then he can live comfortably, cheaply, easyly, here. Other[wise] he might better go elsewhere. 
Wednesday December 22, 1841. The Bostonians and Albanians can now shake hands together. The Great Western Railroad has brought the two cities in close proximity. The Bay State now means to sell us some of their notions--fish, stuffs, and carry back flour &c. This road with the Royal Line of Mail packets from England has given a new life to Boston which makes even New Yorkers feel a little uneasy. 
Thursday December 23, 1841. Why shouldnt they? In winter New York, like all the Atlantic cities, is blockaded to all the West. Boston has broken this blockade and into her port all the winter trade will center. To counteract this, N.Y. is hurrying on her Great Erie Railroad to be the rival of the western road and its continuation to Buffalo. -.After all the much lauded advantages of internal improvements, they may be a curse to us yet as they have been to several states, if extravagance be not curtailed. 
Friday December 24, 1841. We have in many of our large cities --in all, perhaps --a very prevailing and distressing madness. The people are mad for making newspapers. Some are 6 ft. by 4 ft. and contain whole books --big enough for bed quilts. Others are 8 in. by 10 in. Some sell for a penny, other[s] for 25. They may be called legion for they are many, and are sent by packages of hundreds to all inland cities: there they are sold at shops fitted up on purpose, arranged on shelves like other other merchandise; or hawked about the streets 
990 
with the cry, "N. Y. Tribune!" "Herald!" "Sun!" "Brother Jonathan!" "New-World!" "Boston Notion!" --by boys. The small penny-dailies have an immense sale: from 5000 to 25000. Their regular sub.scribers, I presume, is far below these numbers. 
Saturday December 25, 1841. .When Dissenters left the Ch. of England for her abuses, I doubt not that they pushed dissent too far. Some things they might better have carried with them which they did not: e.g. Christmas. What day more joyous to the true believer! or fuller of profit if the thoughts which its recurrence inspire are cherished! Perhaps there may be other days --anniversaries of some important event in our Saviour's life which might be profitably remembered and religiously observed. If we keep a weekly Sabbath on the 1st day hallowed by our Saviour's res[s]urection, is there an impropriety in keeping a yearly Sabbath also? 
Sunday Morning December 26, 1841. Dr. John A. Yates preached in Pres. Ch. Text 20c John 29v. Disciples did understand Xt's mission. Did not believe Christ's resurrectio¡'. To convince his disciples, showed himself. We are more blessed who believe, not having seen, 
than those who believed having seen. Seems paradoxical. Should'nt we feel more sure of Christ's existence if we saw him? No. Christ's Kingdom is not of this world, therefore I say no. The disciples did not perhaps concieve of the true mission of Christ even after His resurection --thought Him a temp[or]al Prince. After they did know more, thought salvation was confined to the Jews. David, however, had more enlightened faith --so Isai[a]h and Simeon. These certainly enjoyed more true faith than the Apostles while Christ was with them. Christians at this day are more enlightened than even the Apostles. Illus. A Patriot leaves a constitution and form of government for a people. After enjoying their blessings for centuries, are not the people more wise respecting the principles of their government, do they not enjoy greater and more extensive benefits from the just laws of their founder? No more merit in believing without seeing than with sight. All are saved by the same grace. 
Let us place this truth in another light. If we do not hear the evangelists and apostles, neither would we tho' one arose from the dead. We receive the scriptures by education, not by faith. Yet there is an internal evidence in them which is not taught by "flesh and blood." The poorest and most illiterate has as strong and unconquerable evidence of the truth of Christianity as the most learned. No book reveals God like the Bible. Let one read the 
901 
Apochrapha--he will never confound it with the canonical books. We admire the Apoch., yet it has not that unction of the Canon. Many human works are pleasant and refreshing, yet we pass by all for the Bible. So Moses passed by all bushes but the burning one. The truth of Jesus the pillar of cloud and fire to us, to lead us through the wilderness of this world. Oh! blind must be the eye that will not see that Christ is in our midst, when it sees the evidences which we have in the Gospel. 
Monday December 27, 1841. Yesterday afternoon attended Episcopal Church where Mr. Walter's preached from Deut.: Our present situa.tion affords us topics for serious and momentous thoughts. We know not how long we must live--how precious then is time. We should consider our ways then. If we do not now at the close of another year consider, when shall we! 1. Let us be reminded in reflecting on.the flight of time of our own mortality. Every thing confirms our frailty. Every passing year, month, our departed friends etc. Yet how little profit do we derive from this! 2. Our life is short. A shadow or vapour--so teaches both revelation and our experience. The past year is gone, noiseless and silent, so also many years. They seem a mere point although crowded with cares and business. 3. Time is uncertain. The dead would tell us this --even those who commenced this year with us. In the year to come, others of this congregation will likely be taken away --those too now in health and strength. 4. All on earth is precarious. Our friends death may strike down. Riches may take wings; at the end of another year we may be poor. 5. Our earthly schemes may be thwarted. One builds but another inhabits; one heaps up riches but another enjoys them. The honest man and prodigal are both disappointed in their schemes. This night thy soul may be required of thee. 6. Let the thoughts of thy latter end remind thee of life to come. This life relates to one that never ends. How precious then! How can we be so slothful! Our words and thoughts are all connected with eternity. Awake then! let us live for a glory which shall only begin to exist when time is no more. What are your thoughts on the use and abuse of time, my impenitent brethren. Are you still regardless of your maker? What will time tell of you? Do you haunt the assembly of the gambler and drunkard and profligate? How will the past year testify against you, my unre.newed friends! Lay your sins before a saviours cross. Let Him save you! He will requite you with a death of peace and a glory hereafter. Brethren in Christ, have we spent the past year as we should? Have we preserved our Christian virtues? 
992 
Tuesday December 28, 1841. Oxford Tract no. 73 contains a criticism on Mr. Abbot's "Corner Stone." In this Mr. A. is charged with Socinianism and Rationalism. Perhaps justly, too. This age simplifies everything, solves all mysteries. Nurses dont sing lullaby songs and tell tales any more to keep children quiet! It is rare to see "Mother Goose" or "Tom Thumb" in the nursery. We have in their place little works on Astonomy, Nat. His., Geog. etc., Newton's "Principia" and La Places' "Mechanique Celeste" simplified! 
If this diluting and reducing spirit would let religious doctrines alone, it would be put up with. But it does not do this. It will not allow any mystery to be unresolved, it must pull down God's unsearchable mysteries to the level of human wisdom. The Oxford Tract Man is in the main right. 
Wednesday December 29, 1841. Oxford Tract No. 76 on "Baptismal Regeneration" is made up of selections from about 40 eminent church divines on the subject of baptism. After reading it, I am at a loss what it means. At a loss because much of it is a mystery and, from interpreting its meaning, wrong. However some speak boldly and pretty clearly and I am inclined to think most of these Doctors of the Church make baptism necessary for the salvation of infants. Water baptism, then, conveys to the unconscious infant spiritual blessings --the graces of the spirit --in fact Regeneration! What a doctrine! I have read none more startling and wicked in the whole batch. 
Thursday Dec. 30, 1841. Macauley has another art[icle] in the Edenburgh Review on Warren Hastings. It is written with his usual talent for what is startling or, if not startling, at least striking; some times his sentences seem each one to be a paradox. As much as I delight to read Mc. I have one drawback, one fear that it is all too good to be perfectly true. His reviews --so clear, new, and facinating --seem too magic[al?] to be reality. Yet they may all be true, every word of them. There is sometimes danger in giving a good turn to a sentence lest truth should be sacrificed. 
Friday December 31, 1841. Temperence is making wonderful progress now everywhere. Teetotalism, I mean. The new feature which it takes is the reform of drunkards. They form [a] soc[iety] of their own called Wash[ingto]n Temperence Soc[iety] --and within the year, it is thought, 80,000 tip[p]lers and topers become temperate sober men. 
