
Saturday January 1, 1842. An attempt has been made to get wine set aside from tables furnished for visitors today. Dr. Nott has called on some of our biggest folks for this purpose: and with some success, too. Here are the calls I have made today. Those giving wine and punch are marked to show the progress of reform. Prof. Jackson, Mrs. McPherson Mrs. Kane, (Judge Jones, wine) *Reed, Mr. Andw. McPherson, Mr. Walton, Mr. Boyd, *Potter, Mr. Robt. Cunningham, Judge Riley, Mrs. Savage, *Yates, Mr. Robt. Brown, Mr. Van Santvord, Mr. Oathout, Mr. Howard Nott, Mr. Bensens, Mrs. Holland, (Maj. 
Martin, wine), Gen. Fisk, (Mr. Archd. Campbell, wine), Mr. Riggs, Mr. Platt Potter, Dr. Proudfit, Mr. John Van Yoast, Dr. Craig, Mr. Isaac Yates, Mr. Alex. Kelley. (Mr James Duane, wine and punch), Mr Tomlinson, Rev. Mr Walters, Mr. Paige, Mr Van Vranken, Mrs. Kelley, Mrs. and Miss Walters, (Mr. Mumford, wine), Mr. Howes, Mr. Ward, Mr. Jona. Burnham Res., Mr. Davis, Mr. James Walker, Mr. Geo. Campbell, Dr. Yates, Mrs. Bozeley, Mr. McCamus, Mr. Thompson, Mr. Linn, Mr. Harvey Davis, Mrs. Fullers, Misses Grahams, Mr. John J. DeGroff, Mr. Young, Mr. Wm. Walton, Mr. Lyman, Mr. Backus, Mr. Gibson, Mrs. Tripp, Dr. Dunlap, Maj. Cochrane, (Mr. Carley, wine) Mr. Van Ingen, Lib[erty] St., (Mr. Van Ingen, wine), (Mr Palmer, punch), Dr. Maggofin, Mr. Grout ... 
Sunday January 2, 1842 .... Rev. Mr. Church, Mr. Beckley. 
P.M. Episcopal Church. Mr. Walters preached from 12v. 90th Psalm: If we had nothing to fear but in this life, then we might say, "Let us eat and drink &c." But as this is not so, we should enquire what will time bring upon us. Time flies, swiftly and silently. As we have parted with another year and many friends we should have serious and solemn thoughts. 1 We should begin the year by looking back on the past [months?]. We can not recall them. So will it soon be with life itself. We must appear before God to give up our account, suppose [it were?] to take place now, should we not look back on the past with alarm? Let us consider our ways. Let the last year be reviewed to see if we have been improved. Let us see if it has been devoted to God. See that our years do not rise up in judgement against us. If this review be not accompanied with repentance, it will be of no use. We must not put off repentance till another year. 2 We are uncertain of reaching the end of this year. How many heads will be laid low! How many of this congregation who are now perplexing themselves with cares will need none of their designs of gain and ambition! Who of [us?] will die or who survive this year, God only knows, but each one thinks he shall be the survivor. "All men think all men mortal but themselves." So it was last New Year's day with those who have died this year. If they could arise, how would they warn us to be prepared to die! 3. We should learn moderation in prosperity and adversity. To the afflicted the flight of time should give pleasure, for they are one year nearer the end of their aflictions. We are taught by this to look above earth for a more enduring existence. Brethren! Let us repent of past sins, keep his Sabbath, obey his commands till we attain the blessedness of God. 

Monday January 3, 1841. Galatians 6. lv. "Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye that are spiritual restore such an one in the spirit of meekness: considering thyself, lest those also be tempted." A precept which savours much of the charity and kindness of our Savior's teaching. Yet how little regarded! Christ forgave the poor penitent adultress whom the Jews were ready to stone --a deed like himself. Would the Church now deal "in the spirit of meekness," with so rank an offender, no matter how penitent? 
Tuesday January 4, 1842. I fear not. She too often estimates sins according to the good or bad opinion of the world. A covetous man and extortioner, if he be such according to the ordinary rules of business, may be tolerated in the church; who ever heard of such an one being excluded? In a word, sinners that are respectable and great in the eyes of the world may retain their places whilst poor offenders are too often treated not with the spirit of meekness but harshness. Oh! there is a wonderful alloy of sin in all the best acts of the best of men! 
Wednesday January 5, 1842. Although Dr. N. never commits himself where it will be likely to offend his interests and usefulness, influence etc., yet on other subjects no one will give more decided opinions! His hobby I think must be Temperence now, Teetotalism to the extent of excluding wine from the com[mu]nion table. Formerly he preached considerably about slavery, and came hard upon abolition grounds. At this I have often wondered because, as I have said, he never trusts an opinion where it will injure his influence, and surely, as people think now, it is not popular to be on that side. 
Thursday January 6, 1842. Still I can not deny what I said, especially as all who know him agree in this opinion. Another subject which has long ago gained the Dr's attention is Animal Magnetism. I had a talk with him not long since on this, and I said: "This thing puzzles me, dont know how much to believe of it. What is yoor opinion, Dr., about it? How much is truely and certainly known?" 

Friday January 7, 1842. "Why I know that a person can be put into this state merely hy the volition of the magnetism. I've tried it myself an hundred times. When I have been sitting here I have put that *young woman, to sleep while at work--there was no possibility of her having the least thought of what I was willing. Often when she has been reading or sewing, she complains that I am magnetizing her, never unless I am: I know I can put her to sleep in from 5 to 10 minutes if she should be 
* referring to a girl who was his servant in that room (pointing to a adjoining bedroom). I have often put Angeline (another girl who was in the house) to sleep while I walked between the Colleges and she sitting in the house with Mrs. Potter to watch her. She knew nothing of what I was willing. Now all these experiments I have varied in so many ways that I know there is no mistake about them. I certainly know that the will or mind of one person has such power over another person as to put him into a Magnetic sleep, or rather .. . 
Saturday January 8, 1842 .... state. A p~rson asleep may be put into it and when he comes out he will be asleep, his first state. I have put Angeline to sleep as well as this young woman here for toothache -.the pain was sometimes removed, sometimes not." 
"Do you believe anything in Clairvoyance?" 
"I don't know much about that from experience." 
"In the cases which you have known, could the magnetized 
read in the dark or with eyes bandaged?" 
"I never did much with that experiment, yet from what I have observed I have no doubt that persons in the Mag. state can read in the dark when it is impossible for one awake to do so. I am inclined to think they don't use their eyes. But I dont know." 
"In your experiments could you make the person talk or move?" 
"Yes, but with difficulty. I can will her to turn her head or raise her hand and, by making a strong muscular effort at the same time to move my head or hand, she would do the same. This required very strong exertion in me to do, both of mind and muscles, sometimes failed." 
Sunday January 9, 1842. Baptist Ch. Mr. Church preached from Rev. "I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end &c." Revelation an epitome of ch. history from the beginning till the end of time. Mostly prophetic, dark and difficult to be understood. The chap. of the text is description of heaven e.g. --"I saw a new Heaven and a 

new Earth" or "God shall wipe all tears from their eyes" &c. "No 
more sorrow no more crying" &c. How comprehensive this 
description of heaven! Alpha and Omega descriptive of eternity of 
God. The text is a general proclamation to all mankind. Heaven is 
presented to awaken desires of holiness, and Hell to awaken the 
dread of the effects of sin. 
Meaning of text. Literal meaning. Thirst a strong desire for drink. But thirst is here figurative. Fountain is Gospel. The waters of life are abundant and ever gushing from the throne of God. 
Scope of Text. Those who ardently desire the blessings of salvation may have them freely. The dying theif found this fountain. But remember those only attain these blessings who strongly desire them. Many persons in time of adversity desire salvation, this desire not ardent enough. Desire of salvation must not center in self, must_ feel sorry for sin and thirst for likeness to God, must desire freedom from sin. Desire for salvation must be predominant, must crowd all other desires out as miser desires his money. All things must be as nothing to this salvation, e. g. Jacob praying and the woman who touched Christ's garment. Thus, sinner, you must feel. Difficulty with sinners, they dont feel their danger, else they would seek the Saviour. In this situation there ls no hope for them: Satan has them. Those who thirst for the water of life will break off their sins. Those who dont do this dont desire salvation. If the thirsty man does not like the prof[f]ered cup, does he not lie? But what must the sinner do? Ask like the blind man, "Lord, that my eyes may be open." Consider the certainty of fulfilment of the text made by God. Thirst for riches and you may not get them; not so with the waters of life. No monopoly, free to all. If we desire them, we shall be gratified. No need, my hearers, of any further encouragement. Are there any of this Assembly who would see Jesus? His blood can wash away all your sins. What more can be placed before you to awaken your desires than the bliss of heaven where God is the Light thereof? Come to the fountain and be healed. 
Monday January 10, 1842. Last Friday morning thermometer stood at -35 in Fort Ann and Whitehall. i.e. 35 below zero; -20 Saratoga Springs, -12 Schenectady. Coldest weather in the first-mentioned places since winter of '35. 
On Monday 24 ult. I spoke of newspapers. The immense sale of the little [papers] is chiefly made by hawkers and the newsmen at their shops in the inland cities. The effect upon the large expensive dailies of these small cheap papers must be to drive their circulation 
997 
[down?] except those best conducted and of the oldest standing. Several have died already in N. Y. and Phil. 
Tuesday January 11, 1842. But if there is a great cheapening of newspapers, there is at the same an immense rivalry among them and a lamentable lowering of their moral standards. The thirst for news is excessive and vicious. The penny-dailies (many of them) pamper this taste in the most disreputable way. Some report whole trials for rape, seduction and murder in which are things said that ought never to go beyond the court-house. Police court proceedings are searched for cases from which something funny or obscene may be written. To such an extent is reporting for papers gone that the demand has created a new profession. If a celebrated man lectures, the reporter steals his lecture and next morning the author is astonished to see his production verbatim in the daily. If a public dinner is given, the reporter will transfer every speech and toast to the newspaper. 
Wednesday January 12, 1842. If a new play comes over from London, imported in manuscript expressly for the Park and got up at great expense, the reporter will steal it all in 4 nights* and, wonderful to tell, it will be anounced at a neighboring theatre in one 
*This was actually done with the "London Assurance." week's time. Congress and the Legislature are swarming with the 
letter-writers  of these  newsfinders  and  terrible-accident  makers  
who  contribute  to  the  city  papers  for  pay.  Now add  to  this  
machinery another  set of wheels.  these dailies not only ...  

Thursday January13, 1842 .... vie with each other in all manner of news but also in the quickness of their dispatches. They run their expresses faster than the mail; they hire the entire use of a railroad, engine and all: e.g., during McLeod's trial, the "Sun" hired the use of the Utica & Schenect. [Railroad], hired the road merely to bring a report each day of the trial. By this the "Sun" man was able to serve to his readers news about 12 hours earlier than any other paper. 
Friday Januaryl4, 1842. The Governor's message was carried from Albany to New York city in about 11 1/2 hours, nearly all the way by land. Now many of the things spoken of are by no means bad: they show great improvement in the making of newspapers by which news is spread through the country in an unprecedented short time. But with all this, there is too little regard for truth and good morals. It is a poor pass that we are come to when not only our 
998 
theatres but also newspapers must truckle to the worst passions of the multitude to get support. Infamous and midnight transactions must be dragged to light to feed the le[t]cherous appetite of bad and get their pence. The sanctity of private life is not sacred to such editors. A fashionable party must be shown off in the "Herald" with the names of the ladies who attended --dress, beauty etc. 
Saturday January! 5, 1842. But we are not at the bottom of the ladder yet. One editor at least (Bennett) descends to the yet more infamous practice of levying "Black Mail." If a gentleman is known to have made some "faux pas," he will get a hint that Bennett is about to publish the whole affair, names and all. To save character he will offer the infamous B. money to forbear; if the bribe is sufficient, he consents; if not, extorts more with a threat. I am thankful we have not many such editors in the country. 
Sunday January 16, 1842. Baptist Ch. Mr. Church, from Ecc. 12th c. 5th v. "Man goeth to his long home and the mourners go about the streets." The brevity of life is here spoken of. Death is a dreadful event, few so Godly as to welcome it. As we view it near, we shrink back, even poverty and distress are thought preferable. What more solemn than the chamber of Death. The mariner leaves his port with anxiety; with how much more the dying man leaves the earth on that unseen voyage from whence he never returns. But we must all meet this grim destroyer; let us consider therefore lest it come upon us unawares like a theif in the night. The pang of Death is but for a moment. The great consideration is being dead, and going into that unseen world beyond. 
Some reasons why death is terrible. It closes man's probation. Ungodly men therefore fear it. In life we may pass from the service of sin to that of holiness, but death fixes our state. As we live and die, so shall we wake up in the eternal world. Hence death is fearful to the sinner; it closes Heaven to him. The ungodly live on in sin till death, then they are filled with horror. Those who accept of sal.vation through the grace of God are not filled with such fears. They depart in peace and go home to glory. It is the beginning of an unending tale, "man goes to his long home." What dreadful events may happen in that unseen world. This makes death so terrible. We cannot comprehend the time since the flood or the infancy of days but still this is a mere point, a dream, a moment compared to that eternity to which we are going. Suppose one age after another shall suc[c]eed for another 6000 years, still we fail to get any must[?] conception of Eternity. We do not realize it, else we should not be so listless. If an angel should carry a single grain every 1000 years from this earth to a distant planet, still when all were removed, eternity would be just began. We have no period by which we can measure it. We are candidates for this eternal existence. We should consider then what will be our condition there. Some lived many hundred years once they became wicked; perhaps we should be much more so than we are if we thought we should live a thousand years. But God has given us but a moment to prepare for the eternal world. He has done it [in?] wisdom. When we look on earthly things we being sensible then of the shortness of life, we must see that all earthly things are vain. How solemn the thought that some will rise to everlasting life and some to shame and everlasting contempt. I can not close, my brethren, without charging you to become reconciled to Christ, before it be too late. Be entered by the brevity of life, by the solemnities of the Judgement day, by the unending pains of Hell to become reconciled to Christ. Amen. 

Monday January 17, 1842. What Spencer says of Chaucer --"a well of English undefiled" --is also as truly said of John Bunyan. The power of our language, and its fitness to express not only the 
. commonest but loftiest thoughts, are both proved in his books, and more too --that homely figures, if aptly spoken, are not less elegant than forcible. Bunyans case shows that, how falsely soever men may at first judge of merit, yet in the long run they will get mainly right. Not long ago, if I judge right, his talents as a writer --an original thinker --a genius would not have been acknowledged by any. I think it was Cowper who praised him in one or two lines of his poetry, yet owns in so many words that he dared not name him "lest so despised a name should move a sneer." But children and common people have ever read his books with delight, and their just judgement of Bunyan has passed upwards to more cultivated minds. Macauley says that the two great geniuses of the 17th century were Milton and Bunyan. 
Tuesday January 18, 1842. James says that "Money is the root of all evil." What then are the trunk, branches, leaves, and fruit? Hear the savior, "How hardly shall they that trust in riches enter into the Kingdom of Heaven." "It is easier for a cable to go thro' the needle's eye than for a rich man to enter into the Kingdom of heaven." Men dont think so now, no more than they did then. This with many other divine precepts has become obsolete, a dead letter. "What shall I eat and drink and where withal shall I be clothed?" Some utter from 

/ODO 
real necessity, many as a cloak for their covetousness. Habitual 
charity ... 
Wednesday January 19, 1842 ... .is little known among the body called Christians. There are notable exceptions who are stewards of God for all they possess, who spend little upon their own pleasures, but most for the needy. But if it is dangerous to be rich, so also is it an unhappy thing to be poor. "Give me neither poverty nor riches" was the prayer of Agar, or in other words, "Give me enough for my wants, nothing more." 
Thursday January 20, 1842. Whilst speaking of money I am remin.ded of a conversation with Dr. Potter a day or two ago. It was about my salary and arose from a request that it might be raised to 1000$: 800 for teaching, $100 for Keeping Library and 100$ for being Keeper of the Museum. He said that Dr. Nott had the oversight of the money matters, but that he would call his mind to this subject, see what could be done for me, that for his part he had some time thought my pay ought to be greater and had now no doubt that it would. á 
Friday January 21, 1842. "Do you think, Dr. P., that there is any prospect of my becoming a prof. and of having a prof. salary"? Ans. "I have thought so. I dont know how soon, however, you may expect a full salary. Such an office depends very much upon yourself. We all pass for what we are worth. If a man is necessary for the Coll., why he can demand what he pleases. Dr. Nott's wishes on such points tell a great deal with the Trustees, and it is my impression that he expects you to fill the chair of your department eventually." 
(F.xit J.P.) 
Saturday January 22, 1842. Politicians in Congress and wherever they meet do show such reckless boyishness that I wonder they are not a shame unto themselves. In the Legislature of the Nation, after quarreling 2 mos., what have we for their first important law--a repeal of the Bankrupt Act of last session. Untried they cast it overboard and eat their own words with the most eager appetite. But how useless to speak of this so common an occurence. One party, it is well known and allowed, must overturn the act of its opponents as a matter of course, and fill all the offices they can seize upon. The people is a great Goose which the politicians seem to think they may pluck when they have a chance and quarrel about the spoils. 

l!CG 
Monday January 23, 1842. Baptist Ch. Mr. Church preached from Eph. 4. 3. Man made for society. More than half of life's happiness consists in having others to share with us. But society must not have strife, much less the Church. John says, "My little children, love one another." 
1st. The degree and nature of the union the church is to expect. It has no union only as it is united in truth. The Bible must guide our thoughts. No human wisdom able to controul religious opinions. If the Bible is not sufficient, alas! for the human race. The church is not to expect perfect union of sentiment and practice. There is a difference of character, habits, e.g., Diff[erent] jurist[s] interpret statutes differently. Our religion consists of doctrines to be believed, of duties to be done, of precepts to be obeyed, but some sieze more forcibly one doctrine than another. Perfect uniformity of sentiment therefore cannot be expected. All the differences of mind remain after conversion, as Paul and Peter, yet all this diff[erence] need not produce any jarring. Few denom[inations] perfectly harmonize, few individuals indeed in the same church. 
2d. How far is uniformity essential to union? 1st Uniformity .in the great fundamental doctrines. 2nd In the same great truths of the Bible 3d In the ordinances of the ch. e.g., baptism and Lord's Supper. The nature of uniformity which the ch. ought to attain: a uniformity of feeling, in love towards God, from faith in the same Saviour, from the same desires to glorify God. Strife and animosity cannot exist where such feelings are. The Saviour rebuked the spirit of strife and pride. All strife in ch[urches] is wrong. Chh. must have uniformity in supporting the Gospel by money, in her efforts to do good, union in prayer. 
How uniformity in Chh. ls to be gained and maintained. 1st You must ardently desire it, then you will have it. 2nd Every little diff. must not divide the Ch. 3d Members of churches must avoid giving offence, for peace when once broken is hard to be mended. A kind heart never gives offence intentionally. 4th Be cautious against re.ceiving offence. Dont feel too sensitive. Good to have our patience tried. 5th Let there be no evil speaking. Tattling and tale-bearing make strife, practice of little minds. Talk rather of the Saviour. 6th To remove strife we must feel interested in the Saviour, the salva.tion of souls. Here we may be united. 
Monday January 24, 1842. For this Coll. term my recitations are 3. --2 in Chem. and one in Solid Geom. Besides these, a recitation in Geol. By the by, all students are fierce for studying Natural History. Botany is so delightful! Geology and Mineralogy so useful! Yet few have patience and industry to acquire a smattering. If they could become tolerable naturalists in their rooms by reading the "language of flowers" or the "Wonders of Geology" or Goldsmiths "Animated Nature, " why then they would delight to study. But they ... 

Tuesday January 25, 1842 .... are altogether too lazy to study the volume of nature --the weather is too hot or too cold --a walk tires them--they see nothing to be got by their pains, but weariness and tired legs. If a flower, a pretty fragrant one, is thrust under their nose and they can as easily learn its name and properties as they smell its odor, why then perhaps Botany would have some attractions, or if they could set on a bench and have the most splendid specimens of minerals laid in their hands and have nothing to do but admire their bril[l]iancy, then they might for a time love Mineralogy as the child admires his rattle. 
Wednesday January 26, 1842. But how can they [do] away with the drudgery of their studies! To make these sciences attractive to the mass of students, require them to do no labour, give them no books to study, task neither their bodies nor their minds, but read an elegant, flowing lecture filled with the wonders of the science, show them some beautiful specimens, and you carry all hearts with you and Natural History will have the most ardent admirers. 
Thursday January 27, 1842. One of the most interesting trials thatá our courts have made for many a year is this of Colt at N. Y. for the murder of Saml. Adams. It was done in open day in Colt's room in the Granite building. He then boxed up the body, sent it on board the Kalamazoo packet ship for New Orleans, hoping thus to get rid of the evidence of his guilt, but unfortunately for him Adams was traced to his room and never seen after, the box was hoisted out and thus the horrid deed was disclosed. 
Friday January 28, 1842. Among the many reformed drunkards who are now lecturing about the country, Col. Dwight of Stockbridge, Mass. seems distinguished. He was once one of the prominent men of his state, a long time a representative in the Legislature and Congress and a learned and successful lawyer. For 5 or 6 years past he has been a victim to his love of strong drink. He has squandered his estate, driven his wife away and ruined his character and business. He professes now to address his hearers as Eneas did Dido, not from having seen the evils of drunkenness, but from having felt them. 
1003 
Saturday January 29, 1842. Few men have a more commanding appearance or a nobler mind; few have abused them so. Last night he lectured to the students in Chapel, the evening before to the citizens in Dutch Church. His language is that of a lawyer, one accustomed to political speaking with few gestures and little animation. His main fault--too long. 
Sunday January 30, 1842. When religion walks in silver slippers and is in good odour with the people, many run to her. Then the church is filled with worldly men, who buy and sell her as other truck. Why, men can be truckling politicians and still be accounted pious and an honour and ornament to Christ's Kingdom. Conformity to the world is thought no sin, to cry against it is cant, hypocricy, fanaticism. Covetousness is the least of all sins in common esteem. Oh! this desire to get wealth and to keep it kills all godliness in the heart and almost natural affection! The church is worldly, it is rich and respectable, it is puffed with its prosperity. What all her enemies could ... 
Monday January 31, 1842. ...not do by their united strength, the mere force of outward peace and prosperity has done. The last ten years have wrought wonderful changes among churches. The speculations into which all men rushed both in and out of the church have ceased, but worldly mindedness has not, and 20 years will hardly bring back the country to her former commercial or the Church to her religious prosperity. I may be mistaken. The march of Zion may be retarded but not stopped. Christian people may be worldly now, yet if we compare this with former times, the pious [man] sees much to cheer him. 
Tuesday February 1, 1842. John C. Colt, the murderer of Adams, has been convicted of wilful murder. 
The prevailing opinion seems to be that hanging will soon be done away with. 'Tis said the people will soon demand this change in the laws. May be: and I am not sure that it is not the spirit of the New Testament. With my present doubts on this point I am sure I never could [run] sit as jury-man, on a case of murder, the[y] being as they now are. But I fear not so much the repeal of capital punishment for certain crimes, as that what laws we have or shall have will not be strictly enforced. I fear a looseness of morals and a disregard of all laws. 
IOOt 
Wednesday February 2, 1842. The strength of a drunkard's craving for spirits never was better proved than in the case of Col. Dwight, who lectured here on Temperance last week. It seems that while here he was suspected by some of being in liquor, which has turned out to be true. On being charged with it by some friends, he acknowledged that for the last 3 weeks he had been speaking in favour of Temperance under the inspiration of the bottle. He says that he first took to opium but that his taste for alcohol was awakened by taking some r[h] ubarb steeped in brandy as a medicine. He felt keen remorse for his fall and wished himself in the bottom of the North River. Sad! Sad! Poor man! How miserable a bondage is he in! 
Thursday February 3, 1842. The oldest man in the N. Y. Senate is Erastus Root from Delaware Co. He may justly be called the lion of that body. Although 70 or thereabouts, he is said never to have shone with greater power even in his best days than this winter. He too is a brand plucked from the raging fire of alcohol after his powers were nearly ruined. 
Friday February 4, 1842. A deluge of rain fell last night. This morning the Mohawk had overflowed his banks and the ice was moving down. So completely is every [day] like a spring day that one is sorry to be told it is the 4th of Feb. instead of the 4th of March. Bye the bye, this has altogether been a singular winter. The whole of last month was as March --indeed more so. No snow has fallen of any account, no sleighing. At this time the ground is as bare as at the 1st of April. á 
Saturday Feberuary 5, 1842. The chapter of accidents for the day is long. The flood seems to occupy all minds. So begin: the Mohawk continued to rise till about midnight when the water stood about a foot above the flooring of the Bridge in the middle. Such a freshet has never been known since 1786, so say some old people. The ruin caused above can in some degree be told from the fragments of houses and furniture that float by. One whole house floated from Port Jackson (which is almost ruined) and is safely moored near Esqr. Van Eps' on the flats. The bridge at Amsterdam is brought whole within 3 miles of us. At A[msterdam] the water was 4 ft. higher than ever known before. Indeed it is enough to say that the whole village of the Mohawk is flooded and immense damage done to all structures standing within reach of the water. 
100.J--.
Sunday February 6, 1842. Although that remarkable man, George Whitefield, preached much, he wrote little. I never saw anything of his but a few letters to his friends. However, there. is a volume of 18 sermons preached by him and taken down in short-hand. They are familiar easy discourses and far more readible than I had thought. In fact, they are very good sermons, although not very deep. 
Monday February 7, 1842. "Put not your trust in Princes," the wise man says. "Hope defer[r]ed maketh the heart sick." "Let every tub stand on his own bottom." --and so forth, are my text. Some time since I had a conversation with Dr. Potter in the probability of my remaining where I now am. Tonight I tried Dr. Nott with the view of getting his opinion. 
(Enter myself) "Good evening, Dr. Nott." 
"Good evening, Sir, sit down, Mr. P. The Juniors made a great racket tonight in Chapel; did you know the cause?" 
"No I dont." 
"They thought I was to be absent because I came late, so 2 slipped out and were on their way to supper when I met them. So they turned about and came in behind áme. The Juniors gave them a round of applause to make them feel more sneakingly." 
"Very good, I didnt know what was the matter, but f scolded them for it. I came to ask a little advice of you, Dr., as a friend, not as Pres. of the Coll." 
"Well what is it ? if I can help you I will." 
Tuesday February 8, 1842. "I need to know whether there is any prospect of my ever getting such a salary from Un. Coll. as to support me when I come to keep house." 
"Well, I dont know, but I will think of your question and give you my advice at some future time." "You see, Dr., that it is important for me to know this because if I cant live here the sooner I go the better." 
"Yes, I always advise folks when they can do better, not to hesitate. But College funds are low. We are [have?] lost 50,000$ the 2 years past; ... 
Wednesday February 9, 1842 .... bonds come back and interest dont come in; banks are all going to break and I dont know what we are coming to. I tremble every day lest some corporation should fail and Coll. would lose some of its funds. Yes, times are critical, but the bankrupt law will soon make a settlement among Creditor and 
Debtor and we shall see how we stand. This Law is going to make a wonderful sitting up. Yes, l000's will take the benefit of it." "I should like to know your opinion on my matter, Dr., as soon as convenient" "Oh yes! As soon as I can make up my mind on that point, I will do all in my power for you." 
"Good evening, Dr.!" 
"Good Eve, Sir." (Exit myself.) 
Thursday February 10, 1842. The earth is bare of snow. The frost is out of it and some are ploughing. Boats are running from N. Y. to Albany daily. Weather delightful -right Ap[ril] weather. 
Friday February 11, 1842. In my rambles about town I have noticed a wonderful amount of lottery gambling. Although unlawful, there are several places where tickets are sold and what is worse there seems to be no want of buyers. Men of respectability are seen there with others of all classes eager to win a fortune. The four places where I know that this business is carried on are Harman's, Broderick's, Young's and Russel's. At the head of the list of purchasers may be placed ex-Judge L. and ex-Congressman De G. Then follow merchants, mechanics and labourers. Strange that so crying an evil does not call forth some action from our law-executors to put a stop to it. 
Saturday Februry 12, 1842. Bankrupt act. This law of the extra session, often meeting strong opposition in Congress even from those who helped to pass it, has now gone into operation. There are abundant reasons for and against it. It may be defective in its present form. Perhaps corporations ought to be included in its provisions. Nevertheless, as the country is now situated --every one in debt from Maine to Georgia, no confidence, no business, no currency, all in confusion. Why [not?] let folks take the benefit of the act and settle up and begin anew? This is best for the Creditor as well as for the Debtor. Applicants are numerous already, and they will be more. 
Sunday February 13, 1842. Mr. Church preached thus: Prayer. Subject of deep interest. Is solemnly enjoined by the word of God, a precious privelege. God our father, so he permits us to unburthen ourselves to him. Some dont pray, yea some called Christians. Want of prayer is a gulph between God and us. 
1007 
Subjects of Prayer 1. Temporal mercies. Health, deliverance from danger. Prayer of saints have been heard for the sick. "Give us day by day our daily bread." i.e. give us enough, nothing more: food, raiment, &c. are the lowest order of blessings. 2. National blessings. Pray for rulers. The church is wrong here. 3. Spiritual blessings, peculiarly to be sought, far above any other yet how neglected. By spiritual blessings we mean wisdom from above, all that fits us for heaven, that makes man better. Revivals &c. 
Kinds of prayer 1. Secret prayer. "Enter into thy closet" &c. should be unreserved, accompanied with the reading of the scriptures. Without secret prayer we cannot have communion with God. Must be regular. No day without it. You must have time for it and have the Spirit of it. Dont trust in the form of prayer 2. Family prayer. Parents must instruct their children especially in religion. Ought to be brief. When most convenient, so as to be pleasant. It is a great sin for parents to let their children grow up irreverent, and allow those children who profess religion to be without instruction how to pray. 3. Social Prayer. All cant preach but all can pray, ought to pray. An index of the state of religion. Prayer meetings important to churches, built up by them. Some say they want the ability to pray. Get the heart to pray and you will have the ability. 
Incentives to prayer. 1 God's willingness to hear. No doubt of it. 2 Our need of God's Wisdom 3 Fits us for Heaven. 
Monday February 14, 1842. It is a mooted question now in some political circles whether railroad, bridge, banking and other bodies are public or private corporations. In New Hampshire the party calling themselves Democratic generally consider them private and hold the opinion, of course, that no road company can take the private property of any individual without his consent. In other words, they cant make a road through a mans farm without his consent. Another consequence of the same doctrine is that the private property of every stockholder is holden for the debts of the company. These doctrines are surely democratic enough and I am inclined to think just and proper. I hope trial will be made of them, to see if there can be no safety in banks and other irresponsible companies. 
Tuesday February 15, 1842. New Hampshire has the credit, or discredit it may be, of holding another opinion but little agitated of late years, that one legislature can pass no laws and grant no charters that a succeeding legislature cannot annul or alter. Consequently if a state contracts debts, the succeeding generation is ánot bound to pay them. All laws, then, by which money is to 

borrowed for internal improvments are wrong and not in truth 
binding and all perpetual or limited charters may be repealed or 
altered at any time. Although Jefferson held such opinions, I think 
they should be agitated with caution. If they prevail, it is to be 
feared their influence would be injurious. 
Wednesday February 16, 1842. In Schenectady it is said that we have no eminent preachers or even passable ones. Perhaps so. I mean to assent to the first; for it may [be true?] without [the] last's following. Our churches are the following 1 The Dutch Reformed Church. 2 Episcopal. 3 Presbyterian. 4 Baptist. 5 Methodist. 6 Universalist. 7 Catholic, which 7 all have houses of worship and ministers except the 6th which is exceedingly weak. No.I was established, nobody. knows when, as long ago as the city was founded. It is well endowed and, as some say, has $50,000 in productive property; at any rate the ministers salary of some 12 or 1500$ is paid from the interest of it and a surplus remains every year which they dont expend. The Dominie ... 
Thursday February 17, 1842 .... Dr. Van Vechten, as report says, is no 
great speaker, although a good pastor. 
No. 2 was founded by Mr. John Brown as his tablet in the church says. The fashionablest and richest people go here. This is a pretty high church, I imagine, and want to get to heaven without making much fuss about it. Parson Walters is the present Rector --a good preacher --the best perhaps in the city. Married Maj. Cochran's daughter &c. His successors whom I have known or heard of are Parson Stebbins, then Dr. Proat here 12 Or 13 yrs., then Mr. Smedes, then Mr. Walters. 
Friday February 18, 1842. No. 3 has Mr. Backus for its pastor. Folks have nothing against the man, but complain that he is a dry, unintelligible preacher. No. 4 was founded some 20 or more years ago, has about 230 members. Mr. Church, the pastor, a moderately clever young man, diffident but anxious to do good. No. 5. Methodists go by steam here as elsewhere. Some years agone they worshipped in [an] old highposted wood[d]en house in Union St. near the Canal bridge. When Utica Railroad came through, the old house made way for [it.] Then the Methodists built their large brick Chapel in Liberty St. After this removal, they changed wonderfully. From being the plainest people in town they became the dressyest. Here congregate the girls and fellows in ta[w]dry finery and ribbons. 

Saturday February 19, 1842. I am afraid a fine big house has made Methodists proud. Much to be regretted. Here Mr. Remington holds forth, the most irrever[e]nt man in prayer I ever heard. Mr. R. once cured bodies, now souls and bodies both. Tis said his "Renovator" will make his fortune. No. 6 dont go, only occasionally when a straggling preacher comes along. Bad soil to rear Universalists upon --not apparition enough, so they have no importance. No. 7 under the ghostly care of Priest Mccloskey thrives very well. By the bye, he has made most of his Irishmen "Teetotalers" and I hope himself. Perhaps there was need enough of it, so they say. 
Sunday February 20, 1842. And finally the Blacks have a chapel, a neat little house built by the exertions and labour of a Mr. Duryea, graduate of our College. He begged about town and importuned till he raised the wherewith[al] to build the house at the expense of some 900$ or 1000$. No preaching regularly except what is done by the pastors of the town. In college we have some very acceptable preachers, so they say, e.g. Dr. Nott, Dr. Potter, Dr. Yates. These may be mentioned by way of eminence, then Dr. Proudfit who is called a sound preacher but no orator. I like him, nevertheless, more than them all. Prof. Reed and John Nott, bishop of all the destitute churches in this region and pastor of the Rotterdam Dutch Church. 
Monday February 21, 1842. Rumor--that Mr. Delevan of Albany, the temperance man, has given 25,000$ to Union Coll. to endow a professorship. Too good, I fear, to be true. They say, however, that he might do this from his yearly income without feeling it. His income is 60,000$ yearly ac[cor]ding to report. A man remarkably successful in all his plans. From his new work, the "Enquirer," of which [he] distributed 30,000 copies of the first number at an expense of more than 5000$, he says he will make from 10,000$ to 20,000$ according to present appearances. 
Tuesday February 22, 1842. The rumor of the 25,000$ is told by one or two persons with the greatest confidence and they cite the fact to confirm it, that Dr. Nott has been thick with Mr. D. this long time on Temperance and other matters, which makes the thing more probable. 
Item. Dr. N. lectured tonight in Presbyterian Ch. upon temperance with large transparencies of the human stomach, of the drunkard, occasional drinker and man who has died of delirium tremens. A hearer remarked that it was the best lecture he ever 
1Dl0 
heard from the Dr., especially was his poetry fine. Didnt know that 
the Dr. wrote poetry. But it is said that he writes very good. 
Wednesday February 23, 1842. When Ben. Nott graduated, he spoke a peice on "Conscience" which was pronounced exquisite poetry. All praised it and enquired if he was a poet. No one knew it before--he never wrote any. 2 years after, Ben said his father wrote his piece. May be. 
Thursday February 24, 1842. John has the reputation of being one of oddest of all odd fellows --odd in dress and manners, and yet often showing great shrewdness and tact, much like his father's. John's eyes are bad and he cant read. So he has always had some one to read for him since I have known him, sometimes a poor boy from town and often students. Latterly, however, his taste is getting more refined and he has a young girl, some 18 years old, plump, rosey, and very good-looking for his reader, the daughter of some poor man in town. He does it out of pure charity! He's fitting her for a school marm! 
Friday February 25, 1842. But that a bachelor should have a young girl for hours in his room alone, folks say --some think, others whisper, shake their heads &c. In fine, all mean that 'tis'nt right. No matter, this leads to my story. 
John preaches to the Dutchmen in Rotterdam. Sometime since one of his parishioners called to see him. Miss __ ,his reader, was in his room; he locked her in (to prevent mistakes?) and took Mr. Van der Hoggendoffer somewhere else to do business. Mr. Van der &c. wanted Dominie to go right out to Rotterdam to baptize a child or marry a couple or something else, and Dominie, always ready to do his duty, jumps into Mr. Vander&c's waggon, rides out to R., marries Mr. and Miss Somebody and stays all night. Next morning ... 
Saturday February 26, 1842. . .. John gets up early and returns. He found his window open. Then it first struck him that Miss ____ had been locked into his room and, on going in, he found her bonnet, but she had disappeared by the window in the night, [and] John was shortly after seen making for town with the bonnet in his hand to look for his reader. 
Sunday February 27, 1842. P. M. Dr. Proudfit preached in Baptist meeting house from 19th, 20th and 21st v. of 6th Chap. of Matthew's gospel. "Lay not up for yourselves treasures" etc. It requires much 

Io l I 
wisdom to avoid extremes. In avoiding one we sometimes fall into another, e.g., Religion and the World. While [we?] live, we have to do with the world. We must provide for our own necessities, but how many devote their time to their avarice and this world. The other extreme is less prevalent. Protestantism has exploded monasticism. Yet some have under the mask of religion neglected all labour. So did some Thessalonians, to whom Paul wrote. Moderate industry will not be prejudical to religion, else God would not have made it necessary for us to labour. But the world is the most dangerous enemy of the soul, many have perished. 
To guard men our Saviour altered[?] the text, "Lay not up for yourselves treasures" &c. We will consider our duty with reference to the present life. What does this mean, "lay not up" &c. Certainly not that we should make no use of riches. Man has always had hi~ task even in Eden. When he went out he had to till the ground and, so long as he was diligent, God prospered him. The laws of Nature impel us to industry. Why have we taste for the elegant arts if it is not to be gratified? Riches in themselves are nowhere spoken against in the Bible. The Patriarchs were rich --Abraham, Solomon &c. Industry is a real blessing to man, keeps his health &c. The real wants of man are few and require but little time: is all beyond unlawful? must all besides be devoted to Religion? This would seem plausible. But God has reserved only one day exclusively to his service and commanded us to labour the other 6 days. Why did he not reserve 6 to himself? We may see that He permits man to lay by all that honest industry may obtain to provide for old age etc. Yet there is truth in the Saviour's words, "lay not up" &c. He means by "treasure" here, the objects of our extreme affections. But when riches increase, do not put your heart upon them. They will not cure an aching heart, they will flee away. Set not your heart upon them then. The rust may canker, theives may steal them. The elements may rob us. How long can we possess them? Only in the present life. 
What is your life? a vapour. How unwise then to put your affections upon so uncertain an object. Death seperates between the miser and his gold. The Beggar and the Rich lie in the same narrow house. But riches are no harm if obtained honestly and used properly. Dont hoard them nor waste them. The Prodigal is as much an object of contempt as the Miser. Use this world as not abusing it. Every creature of God is good. We are stewards under Him. The possessing of wealth brings a solemn responsibility. The poor are always in the land, "Whoso hath this world['s] goods and shutteth up his bowels of compassion" &c. Thousands have spiritual wants. How much must we give? God has left this to every man's conscience and 
/0\1.
sympathies. Great wealth is not desirable. How hardly shall those who have riches enter &c. So many temptations are strown in their path, so prone to trust in wealth, so prone to pamper the body. The salvation of a rich man is a miracle. The prayer of Agar is exellent for the Christian, "Give me neither poverty nor riches" &c. 2nd "Lay up Treasures in Heaven." The favour of God is true riches. To be called sons and daughters of God, to enjoy the testimony of a good conscience are riches greater far than all that wealth can bestow. 
To have our passions subdued is productive of more felicity than all that wealth can bestow. The blessings of Salvation are a treasure above all worldly treasures, incorruptible, undefiled and fading not away. The Christian cant be robbed. His treasure is reserved for him in Heaven, and he is kept for it. The Christian has an enduring substance in Heaven. How momentary is every earthly enjoyment! but heavenly blessings shall never end. Worldly happiness diminishes, but the pleasures at the right hand of God shall increase. God is the portion of his people. The soul will be enlarged and increased in the contemplation of God's works. 
Here we are lost. "Eye hath not seen nor ear heard" &c .. Enough is told however to lead us to strive for Heavenly riches. 3d How shall we get riches in heaven? Believe on the Lord and thou shalt be saved. Christ is the free gift of God. The gospel is adopted [for?] fallen man; its blessings are freely given. How do we lay up treasures on earth? By industry. Yet we are dependent upon God for earthly riches as well as for heavenly riches. If idleness will cloth a man in rags, sloth will bring destruction upon the sinner. Be not deceived, ye shall reap the fruit of your labours. Set your hearts upon durable riches and be as industrious in reading the word of God, be as earnest in prayer as the men of the world in treasuring up wealth, and ye shall be successful. The worldling may be disappointed --he has no promise in the Bible, but the awakened sinner has every assurance a faithful God can give that he shall be successful 
You now have these 2 distinct pursuits. Will you serve God or Mammon? You cant enjoy both as your treasure. You may enjoy all the wealth that God sees fit to give you and not mar your spiritual good. But set your affections on things above, and all other things shall be added. To conclude read the parable of the rich man in 12th Luke. 
Monday February 28, 1842. Here's "fat in the fire" again. Boys will be boys in spite of old Prex's wisdom and tact. Two seniors have quarreled at the North Hall breakfast table. Major said the other lied. Robertson, "You're [no?] gentleman, &c&c&c" till Major, a Kentuckian, 

/Ol3 
took R. by the hair and poked his fist into the other's eye. Robertson, 
(with blackeye), "Good Morning, Dr. Potter, bad business, folks cant 
talk, blackeye, Major, Gunsaul's table, pulled my hair &c&c. " 
Dr. P. "Hem! &c&c." 
Tuesday March 1, 1842. Major (in Dr. P's study). "Insulted me, feelings excited, sorry for it, dont want [to] go home &c&c." Dr. P. "Ahem! Apology, College Laws, Expelled, Constable, Warrant, Court, fine &c&c&c." Major (entering Robertson's room) "Woman, Dr. P. says I must 
make some apology for striking you, so I 'spose I must." 
Robertson. "Shant take such a apology." 
Major (aside and retiring) "Go to ---for all I care.Southern 
honour, Southern spirit &c&c." 
Wednesday March 2, 1842. One o'clock. Constable (in front of South College) "Good mornin, Sir, cant you tell where's Major's room?" Student. "Oh! Yes! But you are too late. Major o.p.h.-.absquatilated --gone to Ken tuck." Constable, " Sorry --rot it --fee gone." 
Thursday March 3. 1842. Strange, wonderful winter, no good sleighing the whole time, mild as spring, no frost now, no ice in river, no snow on ground, air bland and warm, wo[o]lens uncomfortable. All signs fail. The cry has been by all weather prophets, "We shall pay for it, snow wont rot in the sky &c&c," but its of no use. Their prognostications all fail. Many old fellows who have a record of every season well stored in their noddles allow that of all mild winters [this?] is the strangest. 
Friday March 4, 1842. On Monday last Tellkampf went post haste to New York on the following errand. A Mr. Gerhard died lately in New York, bequeathing to Columbia College 20,000$ to endow a professorship of the German language. T. heard of [it] Saturday. He hopes to get the appointment although I think it doubtful. Many of his countrymen are putting forth their exertions for it, among whom are Nordheimer and Leiber, both somewhat distinguished. T. is a right clever fellow in the Yankee sense, gentlemanly, kind-hearted, a ripe scholar and persevering, yet knows but little of our Am[erican] way of teaching. Dont succeed as a teacher or lecturer. On that account it would be well for Un. Coll. if he would leave that his salary might be applied to some better use. 
101+ 
Saturday March. 5, 1842. Boz, alias Dickens, author of the Pickwick Papers, Nic[h]olas Nickelby, Oliver Twist and other fine stories, having arrived in Boston, is the Lion of the season. Both the Bos.tonians and New Yorkers have vied with each other in showing him honour. Balls, dinners and parties have succeeded each [other] daily. If this man's head is not turned, it will not be for want of adulation and flattery. Having now resolved to receive no more public demonstrations of respect, it is to be hoped he will enjoy his tour south without molestation and we (Americans, I mean) be saved from making fools of ourselves any farther. 
Sunday March 6, 1842. The state of religion in Schenectady has presented nothing unusual since the time when Mr. Knapp preached here several years ago. Saving the Methodist minister, our clergymen may be called "old measure" men, or at least in their practice they are such. They have had no more long meetings since the time alluded to. If I were to judge of present appearance, I should say that the churches were not over-religious and they were quite as zealous, yea more so, in worldly matters, as in religion. Precious little piety, true unobtrusive piety, anywhere. 
Monday March 7, 1842. Men are always crying out "Hard Times, but never I believe with better reason than now. For the last 6 years we have been ripening for general bankruptcy. But the end is not yet; many old heads say that "we have not reached bottom." Many political and commercial reasons might be given for our present state. 
1st There ls now a pretty general war upon the banks. This has continued so long that the solvent as well as insolvent are brought into discredit. What then? 
Tuesday March 8, 1842. They are run upon, they close doors, their creditors dont pay and they dont. Others withdraw their bills from circulation and dare not lend them. Money is scarce and not sufficient for the business of the country. Banks have run pretty 
[wild?], We all admit these 20 years in a crisis they were unsafe, yet was it the part of wisdom to crush them at once and reform abuses? Would it be wise to free all the negros at [the] south at once without any previous instruction or any care for their future employment? Just so foolishly we have acted with the banks. We have broken them down because they were faulty; we have not proposed any substitute. So our money ... 

Wednesday March 9, 1842 .... affairs are in a lamentable state. 2nd Reason. For a number of years our duties on imported goods have been diminishing until now our revenue therefrom is not enough for the expenses of the government and, what is infinitely worse, the country has been flooded with foreign goods and our own mechanics driven out of employment. The news comes to us every day of the languishing state of many of our manufactures. Our Calico printers cant make cloth at the present prices, so we buy cheap foreign goods and our money goes to Europe. Hats, boots, shoes &c. are now brought in great numbers from France. Will foreigners take our grain in pay, our products of any kind? No, except cotton, tobacco and a few others that [they] are obliged to buy. Our importers in the ... 
Thursday March 10, 1842 ... .large cities are all driven off and their places supplied by agents of foreign manufacturers, who can undersell our native merchants. We are down-right fools in this matter and know not our own interest. We are ground down by the selfish and narrow policy of the southern planter who, supported by a few northern doughfaces, decry a tariff and prate of free trade. Let India be five years older, and she will raise all the cotton that Great Brit[t]ain wants. Then where will the Southern cotton go? We must make it. .. 
Friday March 11, 1842 .... up ourselves and the wind will set from the other quarter. Southern interest will then make them as hot for high duties. 3d One consequence of low duties has been that we have bought cheap, bought too much and cant pay. The great fever for getting rich, which for 10 or 15 years crazed the whole country, has ended in the complete prostration of its business and energies. In the delirium which this fever produced, men bought and sold and thought themselves made rich in a day. 
Saturday March 12, 1842. They built cities in the desert and connected them with canals and railroads. They borrowed millions in Europe to perfect their plans, which they squandered. Indeed what foolish thing did'nt they do? Here then we are owing 200 million -.the annual interest 10 or 12 [per cent] more. Some states meet their interest; others refuse ever to pay. What then? Why, the credit of all suffers, and I would not be su[r]prised if the U.S. Government asked a loan she would be refused. So we go. 
Sunday March 13. 1842. Heard Mr. Church in Baptist Ch. and Dr. Prof. Yates in Dutch. Dr. Y. preaches for Dr. Van Vechten a few weeks 

while he goes to Boston to get a lame leg cured. Were I a member of the congregation, I must confess that the change would be by no means agreeable. Most people, however, think Dr. Y. an extraordinary preacher, --perhaps he ls. His sermons I admit, may be eloquent, they always have some elegance and are written for effect. But there's little depth; truth, but too little of it. I dont like elegant sermons. I had rather listen to Dr. Proudfit, who is called the dullest of all dull preachers. Popular preachers! I cant away with them. They preach themselves. 
Monday March 14, 1842. The spring and winter have seldom been so mild. We have had no good sleighing and the ground has long been as bare as mid-summer. Albany, they say, is in a sad ferment. Dr. Sprague and Mr. Delevan have had a little friendly quarrel arising from some Temperance matters on which they dont agree. They tell the story thus: 
Tuesday March 15, 1842. In '35, I think it was, Dr. S. preached a sermon on "being wise over much" in which the then temperance movements and men were severely handled. Mr. Sargent of Boston (author of the temperance tales) criticized Dr. S's. sermon, which was published, without any forbearance. Dr. S., being very thin-skinned, was exceedingly annoyed by the critique and suspected and charged Mr. Delevan with being the instigator of it. Mr. D. denyed ... 
Wednesday March 16, 1842 .... the charge wholly or in part. Yet Dr S. was not satisfied with the disclaimer. The Dr., being a passionate autograph collector, obtained permission to select some letters from the State Temperance Soc[iety] office. On search among them he found a large number from Mr. Sargent to Mr. D. in which some allusions were made to the sermons and criticism. These he took home and copied, showing them to his friends, who with him -.thinking that Providence had thrown the means of [in]crlminating Mr. D. in their way--advised him to keep. the copies. 
Thursday March 17, 1842. Mr. D., hearing of the Dr's. search and taking away, requested him to return them. He did so and at the same time his friends published a letter, a paper severely handling Mr. D. for starting a report, as they say, that Dr. S. stole some of his letters. This called forth Mr. D. in answer, and so they have it. Dr. S. appeared last in a letter filling the whole side of a newspaper. Then Mr. D. requests the public to defer passing their judgement upon the merits of the case till he has obtained some letters from abroad. It seems to ... 

Friday March 18, 1842 .... be the opinion of some that Dr. S. only made autographs his pretence for searching the office for Mr. S's letters, because it was proved by a clerk that he sometime ago asked him if there were no letters then from Mr. Sargent and asked permission at the same time to search. But, however that may be, I think there can be no doubt that Dr. S. did wrong --very dis.honorably, in cop[y]ing the letters to be used against Mr. Delevan. How they will come out, time will show. 
Saturday March 19, 1842. Mr. D's temperance movements, it seems, have always been looked upon with suspicion by a certain clique at Albany, who would not go with him in his war against the use of wine. After his return from Philadelphia and the publishing of the first no. of the "Enquirer," the old grudge broke out anew and the opponents to his views commenced the publication of the "Respondent," in answer to "Enquirer" No. 1. 
Sunday March 20, 1842. If one may judge from religious newspaper accounts, there is at the present a very goodly religious feeling in the churches. In New York, Boston, Providence and Philadelphia we have cheering news. The Kingdom of Christ is extending. Elder Knapp seems now to be the leading Evangelist. He has preached in B[oston] these 2 mos. or more. A Bench of Bishops in England is to [be] called together to deliberate on the Oxford Tracts. High-Ch[ urch] principles have been mightily pushed forward by these writings, at least in this country. We have Episcopalians here, many multitudes are ready to pin their consciences and faith to the sle[e]ve of Dr. Persey [Pusey?]. Whatever emanates from Mother Ch. in Britain is all gospel; their veneration for her, I fear, is more than for the Bible. 
Monday March 21, 1842. Report says that John Wayland, bro. of Pres. W[ayland] , has left the Bap. and joined the Epis. Ch. Leonard Woods has long been claimed by Epis., although he has not as yet come out; indeed, 'tis [said?] he goes far beyond Moderate Epis. and Dr. Persey himself, and is neck and heel in the Slough of Romanism. I dont know that it is so. This is from Dr. J. A. Y[ates?]. 
Tuesday March 22, 1842. Our zealous temperance men are pushing their influence into every corner of the city. Here is a tavern keeper (Whiteside) who has joined the teetotalers and burned all his liquor 
Io18 
after carrying it all round the city in an immense string of men and boys. King Alcohol, they say, is now hanged and dead. 
Wednesday March 23, 1842. Parson Walters of Epis. Ch. --exellent man and preacher --gives up his charge 1st of Ap[ril]. Ill health the cause. Dr. N. professes to be a locofoco in politics, but in fact he dont go with either party. He is always thick with the one in power, yet professes to belong to the weakest. However, it is worth noting when he gives a decided opinion on any great mooted question. This is seldom. The other evening in conversation .... Dr. N. "The country's in a bad con-dition, very bad." 
I. "What will help us, Dr."? 
Dr. N. "Tarif; high duties. Nothing else will save us." á I. "What think you, Dr. N., of the ... 
Thursday March 24, 1842 .... Creole case"? Dr. N. Just like the Armisted case, precisely analogous. The British wont give their slaves up--they cant." 
I. "We'll have war, then?" Dr. N. "No, No.--think not. The south may bluster some." 
I. "Read Dr. Sprague's letter"? 
Dr. N. "Y-E-S, -some parts of it, bad business--better taken my advice, and settled the hash privately." 
Friday March 25, 1842. I. "True: Mr. Delevan appears to have been forced to this course, he had no choice." 
Dr. N. "Times have changed since I was a boy or else this part of the country is different from New England. I was taught never to say a word about folks -always had a whipping for it. T'aint so here. Folks talk about each other as a matter of course, dont think it any harm. Slander has lost its odium here. " 
I. "Dr. S. certainly had no right to copy those letters of Mr. D's. under ... 
Saturday March 26, 1842 .... the circumstances" 
Dr. N. "I always make it a rule never to read any paper not my own, wouldnt do it if I found it in the street. A man might leave any papers whatever in my possession and they would be perfectly safe." 
The following lines of wisdom and mature age came from my cranium. How many more might be added, I dont know--here are enough for a specimen. 
Io19 
Sunday March 27, 1842. No conquest of modern times seems more wonderful than that of the Gospel. It ever goes before civilization and prepares the way for it. It does'nt [a]wait conquering men. Now it goes before them and even backs enterprises of commerce and private gain. What a world this will be 50, 100, 200 years or more! Christianity will bring on this promised m[i]llenium soon. 
Monday March 28, 1842. Examination commenced today of the Freshmen. I dont know but what these ex[amination]s are getting more hasty than they used to be, ought to occupy a week or more instead of 4 days. 
Mrs. Yates, wife Prof. John A. Yates, died last night at 12 o'clock. How pitiless is this fell destroyer, death! Sparing neither age, sex, nor condition. Here is one cut down in the midst of a large family of dependent children, helpless children, in the midst of a large circle of admiring friends. Who can say that he has a lease of life for a moment? 
Tuesday March 29, 1842. Few know the hearts of men, indeed only One. Indeed few know the private habits and conversation of those whom they see every day, and bow to, and are accustomed to respect. How little are most great men, those men whom we are wont to think great so long as they are at a distance and we do not enter into their private thoughts. 
Wednesday March 30, 1842. How stangely it may sound, that a clergyman gets drunk, that clergy man who preaches so eloquently on the Sabbath, who prays so fervently! He charms all his hearers, they talk of divine sermons and make disadvantageous comparisons. He is sought after. This rich congregation and that offer him large salaries. He may be D. D. and yet he gets drunk! Heart-sickening thought! Not that he drinks whiskey and wallows in the gutter: no, he drinks wine at home, and .. . 
Thursday March 31, 1842 .... shows his shame to his family and private friends only. He is sick and day after day it is given out that he has a cold, a very bad cold. Perhaps his friends know the truth: that he has the first attack of the delerium tremens. He is crazed by his drinking and raves and curses himself and almost breaks the heart of his agonizing wife. His friends do whatever they can to break up his hurtful habit; his wine-drinking acquaintances form a temperance society and sign the pledge themselves on purpose to save him. They persuade him to do so, and after warning him of the consequences of his habits, perhaps he complies. Will it save him? How doubtful! 

Friday April 1, 1842. Here is the picture of the drunken clergyman (and who dare say it is not true), a clergyman who by all the world is respected and venerated because they see only the outside. Perhaps we might go farther: even a still greater blemish or rather a still farther one may exist and the world admire and wonder as before. This drunken clergyman may be a liar, slandering all his friends, even his best and nearest, carelessly trifling with their characters and feelings needlessly; he may be a spendthrift and squander his income and have all the tradesmen at ... 
Saturday April 2,1842 .... his heels (a melancholy, wicked thing especially in a clergyman) and for all this the world look on and gape and admire. They see only from afar. Distance softens all defects of character. Would that there was no truth in this; that it was all fiction, a vain imagining of my own. 
Sunday April 3. [The remainder of the page is blank] 
Utica Monday April 4, 1842. In Utica with M. to lecture and visit a few days. There's a man whom they call Prof. Smith. He professes Latin and Greek languages in Hamilton Coll. as well as music. Sings and plays with taste, leads concerts, is an enthusiastic lover of song. This same gent. wooed and wedded a Miss Gridley of Hamilton about a year ago. Before that she had loved and was partially engaged to a Mr. Stanley of U[nion], Singing Master. 
Tuesday April 5,1842. By persuasion of her friends, however, she put him off for the Prof. They were married, as I said; and shortly, as it would seem, she repented of the act, professed never to have loved her husband but Stanley only. Here then was a miserable state [of] feeling for all concerned --friends, Stanley, husband and ... 
Wednesday April 6, 1842 .... herself. She died this spring of con.sumption, protesting to the last that she respected her husband but never loved him. Poor Smith is left broken-hearted and disconsolate. During the last session of Coll. he was ab[sent] sick, and is soon ex.pected to follow his wife. 
{O}I 
Thurs. April 7, 1842. [The rest of the page is blank] 
FridayApril 8, 1842. They publish books now wonderfully cheap. Here is another novel by Bulwer: all printed in the ''New World" newspaper for a shilling, a whole 2 vol. novel for a shilling! and sent to any part of the country for a few pence more by mail! "The more's the pity" in this case. It's a bad book: full of bad morality, sickly sentiment, bombast, trash. 
Saturday April 9, 1842. I read few novels, yet of all I ever read, this is the most unsatisfactory. It is so bewildering that I hardly know what to say more of it than that I did'nt like it. Bulwer has genius, but oh what an evil genius! How perverted, warped, prostituted. His heroes are gentlemanly rascals. .
Sunday April 10, 1842. The Mormons are getting to be a thriving sect to appearances. Nauvoo is the name of their city in Illinois and Joe Smith their leader--a wonderfully shrewd man he must be, too, to deceive so many deluded men. 
Monday, April 11, 1842. Having made so good a speculation of his Bible, he is now publishing in a newspaper, The "Nauvoo Times," a new book called the Book [of] Abraham, which he has lately discovered. "A friend of mine," says Dr. Nott, "who lately visited Nau.voo told me that "Joe" got drunk not long since. The next Sabbath he told the people of it altho' they knew it very well before. 
"I did it to my Brethren," says Joe, "that you might see how unseemly, how beastly a drunken man looks!" 
Tuesday April 12, 1842. About the same time the Mormon prophet in a dispute with another man was struck by him; Joe in return knocked his antagonist down and beat him. Someone afterward asked him how this text was consistent with his conduct, "If a man strike thee on the right cheek, turn to him ... 
Wednesday April 13, 1842 .... the other also"? 
Joe. "All right! Exellent advice. You, if a man strikes you on one cheek, you dont know but it is a mistake, perhaps he is in fun; if he strikes you a second time, then you may know he is earnest, then you may strike him back and lick him if you can"! 

Thursday. April 14, 1842. That Joe must be an ingenious villian, he may make more trouble yet for the people there. He has his trained hands and is increasing in strength daily by recruits. His charm will be broken sooner or later, yet not before, perhaps, much evil is done to his deluded followers and others. 
Friday April 15, 1842. [The remainder of the page is blank] 
[Friday, April 29, 1842?] The flame of controversy between Dr. Sprague and Mr. Delevan has now about subsided. Dr. S. is about "used up," as they say. He is completely worsted and even his friends think and feel so. His "hair.trigger committee," as Sargent calls Messrs. McIntire &c. are heartily tired of the quarrel and so entirely floored that they now beg of Dr. N-t to come over and help them out of their trouble. Why did'nt they accept of his mediation before they went to such foolish lengths? Because they thought from the letters of Mr. D. found in the Temperance office that they "had him on the hip," and while they fancied they had the power to crush him, no offers of reconciliation would be received. 
Some time since Dr. S. went to Dr. N., charging him with being the cause of all his bad success in the Delevan quarrel. 
Dr. N. said, "I wrote to him that I was the cause; he is right. If I had let Delevan alone with Tabor, his lawyer, he would have used himself up at once." He would have written such severe letters in answer to Dr. S. 's that he would would not have appeared so amiable as he now does to the public. I struck out one 3d of that long letter of 
D.'s almost all the severe things. Yes, Dr. S. is right, I was the cause of his bad success in this quarrel. He would'nt accept of my advice. D. did" 
Last Sunday mom (some days later), Dr. S. wrote again to Dr. N. making an apology for his former letter and begging his aid and mediation to settle the unpleasant quarrel. On a review of this unfortunate affair, no one can fail to see that Mr. Delevan has been vastly raised in public esteem while Dr. S. and his S friends have been lowered. Nothing has injured him so much. After much cooking up of materials and letters and talking with the parties, Dr. N. has brought the matter to a close. He with a long list of friends of both parties has published an advertisement in the newspapers saying that hostilities have ceased, and that the matter has been settled on Christian principles. 
I0?/3 
[Saturday] April 30, 1842. This eve received a few lines from Bra.in-law Magoun beginning thus: "Dear Parents. This morning about 1 o'clock a young gentleman stepped in to make us a visit. They say he is a fine fellow. Mary Ann is doing well &c.," Odds bobs, then, I am an uncle: queer tho! How strange. 
Sunday May 1, 1842. Mr. Church preached upon covetousness, the crying, killing sin of the ch. in this country. The love of money is not only the root, but trunk and branches of all evil. Christians as a body seem to me to serve 2 masters. I mean they try to do so, but as that is quite impossible they cleave to the one they like best --the world. 
Monday May 2, 1842. I hope I dont slander anybody in this charge. It seems to me true. I see no difference between the church and the world in all ordinary dealings. They both will lie; I say church members will lie as well as those who are not, they will slander and back-bite, they will cheat and break promises, they are covetous and what not? Oh! the miserable wounds that the church gets from her members! 
Tuesday May 3, 1842. Are we worse in this generation than before? Perhaps not. Religion walks in silver slippers now, and when it is so, its professors multiply, its graces lessen. Now it is respectable to be a Christian. The honorable and rich join the Church, the gay and fashionable too. There never was more need of strict discipline than when (as now) the Church is rich and prosperous in its worldly circumstances. 
Wednesday May 4, 1842. I believe there are some cases in point in our own city: some cases of lamentable covetousness. Most of the wealth in Schendy (and there is much) is in the hands of Christians; this I believe is true, and yet what proportion of it is consecrated to the Lord? One man, a member of the Dutch Church, told me not long since that his yearly expenses were only 3$: and yet he is worth at least 50,000$. This is not a soli-.... 
Thursday May 5, 1842 .... tary case. Instead of giving a tenth of their income, most Christians, perhaps, do not give above 100th of it. Another term has commenced, and with it the task of teaching dull heads and lazy drones, of all tasks the most miserably annoying. 

Friday May 6, 1842. The Senior Class of Un. Coll. to be graduated in July is upon the whole one of very respectable talents and good attainments and character. The first on the list is Gamaliel J. Baker of Fort Ann, of whom I know but little, save that he bears a good name for [his] correctness in deportment. In scholarship, above mediocrity. Absent for several terms before the last teaching. 
Saturday May 7, 1842. F. W. Barnard of Po'kepsie, as much like "Bull" as 2 peas in the same pod. By "Bull" I mean his Bro., "Bull Barnard" as he was called in College, who graduated here in '33 or '34. It must be a rude uncouth set of of boys --that family --if these are specimens. Fred. has none of the smartness of "Bull" and I hope none of the profanity also. He may make something yet although while here he has been thought a dull, lazy fellow. Tall, lank, ungainly. He may be, like a singed cat, better than he appears. Hope he may be. Good bye, Fred. 
Sunday May 8, 1842. The speculation respecting the ultimate results of this Oxford movement in the Church of England is both curious and interesting. Antient Christianity! The Apostolic Doctrines and traditions! are the watchwords of the Oxonians, and hundreds who fancy they love the Church of Christ say Amen to their instructions. To most minds Old Institutions have a charm and bear an authority irresistible; even ruins are venerable --not ruins of castles and palaces, piles of stone only, but ruins of old Governments even if des.potic, civil Institutions. How much more, then, the ruins of an antient religion rich and gorgeous in wealth, ceremonies and rituals. The man who can... á 
Monday May 9, 1842 .... not venerate that, altho' corrupt somewhat, I know not what to think of. The Catholic Religion considered merely as a human institution (and I fear little else but the human remains) is the mightiest, noblest, most venerable thing the sun ever shone. But how sad the ruin! Now with the best of intentions (they may have) and yet having such a veneration for antiquity, may not the Tractites seize upon the outward circumstance attending religion in past times --the ceremonies, the Canons, the rituals, the services, the name and forget the essence! or if they feel the influence of the true spirit of religion upon their hearts, may they not neglect to give it sufficient prominence? 
Tuesday May 10, 1842. If they preach to their congregations to go to the Church every Sabbath, to read the prayer-book, to partake of 
the Communion, to have their children baptised and confirmed &c., yet without faith, with[out?] good works, how fruitless are they all. 
Wednesday May 11, 1842. James Austin (grad. 1842.). Know him well but can say nothing in his dispraise nor anything decidedly in his praise. He is one of those quiet bodies who go thro' Coll. without making any stir, kicking up no rows, leading no party, not brilliant but always respectable in all that he attempts. 
Thursday May 12, 1842. Henry W. Barrett Jamestown (1842) ditto: good, clever, industrious, plodding fellow, not above mediocrity &c. Fiske Barrett Springfield 1842. Not long in Coll., a man of some smartness, spoke a very exellent piece at his graduation, quick, sprightly. I wouldnt wonder if he should be heard from in the world. 
Friday May 13, 1842. James A. Bayard, Jun. Wilmington, Del. 1842 In Coll. but a term. A nephew of the present Senator from Delaware in U.S. Congress. Tall, active nand a young man of decided abilities but not in Coll. long enough to develope. them fully. 
Saturday May 14, 1842. Gorham Beals, Canandaigua (1842) No one can doubt that Gorham want[s] the essential part to make a man -.brains. Here he has blundered along 3 or 4 years and knows now no more than when he commenced. It is doubtful whether he ever knew a lesson or could get one if he tried. However deficient now, one of his instructors ever laid any thing to his charge for he was incapable of mental effort. So Gorham goes home to his kind, indulgent friends as great an ass as when they sent him to Coll. 
Sunday May 15, 1842. We must give the Yankees credit for keeping the Sabbath better than any other people. I do not say that they are more religious in all respects. Most of their railroads, stage coaches and other public conveyances stop all business on that Holy [Day], showing at least an outward respect for religious institutions, which is really delightful. Such things seldom take place anywhere else. To 
N. Yorkers Sunday is like other days: railways, steamboats, coaches, canal boats are all on the move and crowded with passengers. 
Monday May 16, 1842. Charles Borland, Montgomery '42. A pleasant amiable little fellow, of small abilities and of no decided character. John M. Bradford, Malden 1842. A mathematician of considerable merit, a protege and pupil of Dr. Tellkampf who has taught him Dutch, out of which language John has translated a little Math. work of the Dr. 's brother. John says he intends to publish it --doubtful. Who'll print Math. books of uncertain merit when the best are hardly worth publishing? John will make a pretty good teacher, perhaps like his father. He's amiable, modest and worthy without anything brilliant. 

Tuesday May 17, 1842. George Bradshaw, Montpelier Vt. '42, with whom I have but little acquaintance .. Whether right or wrong, my impression is that George is lazy. What he is capable of, I dont know. 
Wed May 18, 1842. John P. Brown, Brownville '42. Studied well, recited well, behaved well, was thought well of and will do well in the world, I suppose. Tall, talented, ought to do something to distinguish himself; can if he will. 
Thurs. May 19, 1842. John P. Brush, Po'kepsie '42. Amiable boy, small calibre, quiet, unobtrusive--little known, studious, middling scholar &c. John H. Bull, Clarkson '42, rightly named or he might have been called a "Bear" for his awk[w]ard boorish manners, green. Well-meaning perhaps but too rough to be endurable; brains enough but uncultivated; if he can be polished, may make a man. 
Friday May 20, 1842. S. B. Burnham, Sche[ne]ctady. A clever man, and fiddler and something else, perhaps, but no scholar nor ever will be; amiable, neat-dressed, well behaved, clean-shaved, pleasant boy, son of an exellent father; health never injured by study, head not over-stocked and so on. 
Saturday May 21, 1842. Alexander B. Bullions, Albany, son of the Rev. Dr. Bullions. Near-sighted, wears spectacles, amiable, came into College late, one about whom no harm can be said and not much good. John W. Carey, Sterling, Cayuga Co. An uncouth farmer boy of exellent talents and application, makes law his profession. Walks as tho' his legs were tied. John will make himself known somewhere; during the latter part of his course he taught in a school in town to 
pay his way and kept along with his class. 
Sunday May 22, 1842. Many things agitate the world and Christians --Politics,. Temperance, Slavery, Masonry Questions in Theology and lastly the Second Coming of Christ. I dont know that any new original views are taken of the Scriptures, but such an uncommon agitation of the subject is at any rate unheard of. A Mr. Miller, a man of ordinary talents but a pious Baptist minister, is the leader in the movement. He is assisted by many others of the like character. 

Monday May 23, 1842. Duncan Campbell, Albany. Albany boys who come here from the Albany Academy are always well prepared for the classes they enter. Duncan is a well-behaved young man, respectable scholar and so forth. 
Tuesday May 24, 1842. Stephen W. Clark, Schenectady. "Chip of the old block," as like his father as can be. Tall, lazy, of little industry, no scholar and by no means deficient in natural abilities. They called him "Corporal" and say he plays an exellent hand at cards, rolls a ball well and has many other accomplishments of the like kinds. Pity that Steph. couldnt find something better to do. He is like many other young men of sufficient fortune, who having nothing better to do, kill their time by such trifles. Here's another of the same character. 
Wednesday May 25, 1842. Samuel H. Cook, Ballston Spa. "Sam is the greatest bear in College," said one to me, but with a fortune of 100,000$ he can not fail to be considered a gentleman by most people. While in Coll. he never studied much and I never heard that he distinguished himself for anything save sowing some few wild oats which had well nigh given him leave of absence. 
Thursday May 26, 1842. Francis R. E. Cornell, Coventryville. Good enough in every respect. No harm known of him. Edward H. Delevan, Albany ( or rather Ballston), died early in his course. First winter after his entrance he visited Cuba with his father to seek relief of a pulmonary disease, returned somewhat rel[ie]ved, not cured, and died soon after, a most severe blow to his parents. 
Friday May 27, 1842. Joseph Dixon, Westfield, belonged to the last class, stayed away a year and reentered this. Quiet, unobtrusive man. Studious and respected. His Bro. John graduated a year or two since, a more showy and perhaps more talented man. 
Saturday May 28, 1842. James Dow, Richfield, an exellent Botanist devoted much of his time to it, exelled in nothing else. Tall, respecta.ble scholar, and respected. Frederic Delano, Groton. O.K. &c. John Fitch, Schodack, University student, the most impudent man ever seen on "College Hill," a profound blockhead! a bag of wind and vanity! a notorious dunce! an everlasting talker about politics and -.oh dear! John Fitch!! 

Sunday May 29, 1842. [The remainder of the page is blank.] 
Monday May 30, 1842. Guy Foote, Elmira. A man of good talents and respectable acquirements. Guy had his courage severely tried early in his Coll. course. He belonged to a large society professedly Anti-Secret, opposed to all secret associations; changing his views he joined one of those hated clubs. The "Antis," a majority of his class, formally proscribed him as unworthy of their Society as, having done a most heinous, wicked, and immoral act, they couldnt... 
Tuesday May 31, 1842 .... endure the traitor! First his effigy was put on the top of the West Coll. by night, he must not recite with them, they scraped and hissed him to their heart's content, and he outlived it all. John M. Garfield, Albany. Son of the clergymen who has a female seminary there. Nice amiable young man. 
Wednesday June 1, 1842. Abraham B. Gardner, Pownal, Vt. A man of a good deal of bottom, a first-rate scholar. Alfred A. Gilbert, Cummington, Mass. Has struggled thro' College against many obstacles. 1st When he came here some years ago, he lost all the money he had laid by for years towards his tuition by a base man to whom it was lent. Then he was forced to leave after a term or 2 spent in Coll. to teach, which he did to great acceptance of his employers, and came back able to finish his course. He'll make a good and useful man if not a brilliant. He belongs to a ... 
Thursday June 2, 1842 .. ,.Baptist Ch. and will probably study Theology. Solomon Graves, Russia. Dont know. Well enough, I suppose, else.should have heard. 
Friday June 3, 1842. Henry F. Greene, son of Dr. Greene of Albany, and a nice good-natured handsome boy he is, a boy of good parts,á diligent, well-behaved &c. Henry S. Hall, Churchville (bro. Hubbard 
E. Hall). These youths are not very learned, not very diligent nor talented. They are mediocre and that's all. 
Saturday June 4, 1842. Lorenzo Hand, Lebanon. Tall, brains enough perhaps but never recited well. Dont know if he were lazy or no. Studied law in town; was a University Stud. Think he got his degree, however. 

[Gap from June 4 to September 9, 1842 except for one undated 
entry, which follows] 
Various recipes for Inks. Blue Ink. I know of but two, only the first of which is much used. 1. Dissolve Prussian Blue in dilute Oxalic Acid. This makes a very beautiful dark blue ink but whether durable or not I do not know; it may be easily removed from paper by a little Potash. For a few years back it has been quite common to use this instead of Black Ink. Common Prussian Blue is much more difficult of solution than a kind which is now made on purpose for ink --the Prussiate of the protoxide, I presume. 
2. Sulphate of Indigo and Tannogallate of Iron. This receipt I 
have not as yet tried. [The remainder of the page is blank] 
Friday September 9, 1942. Term commences today and shows the influences of "Hard Times." We have as yet only about 40 new entrances , whereas in ordinary times we might expect nearly double that number. During the vacation, death has taken one of our number --Mr. Samuel S. Richardson of Middlebury, Conn. He died at Harrisburg, Pa., where he was on a visit to his friends. But a wound like this made in the hearts of his young classmates is soon healed; they will soon forget him; his place is already filled by another in his class, and no one will any more ask for the lamented Richardson. 
Saturday Septemberl0, 1842. He must have built himself a most enduring monument whom deáath will not overwhelm with his oblivious waves. 
My recitations for the term are 2 in Conic Sections to the Juniors, 1 in Geology to the Sophomores. 
Sunday September 11, 1842. This is one of those cold rainy days such as we expect in the fall, which makes one shrink from the open air, and huddle about his own warm fireside, and if this be not enough, perhaps a cold and diarrhea such as I am troubled with may determine him to stay away from Church. Speaking of Church, it come[s] to my mind how little we prize her priveleges which are so common. To know the value of the courts of the Lord one must be deprived of them. I dont believe that over 1/2 -2/3 of our attending students ever attend Church regularly. This is one of our crying College sins. 
1030 
Monday September 12, 1842. Our laws to enforce attendance are almost a dead letter. 12 years ago there were monitors in every Ch. in the city and if a student were ab[sent] from his ch. his delin.quency was noted and brought against him. This practice gradually fell into disuse. Perhaps it is not well to compel them to go; at least it is against our spirit of government: it is recommended instead that each officer speak kindly to the delinquent and persuade him. On this point ... 
Tuesday September 13, 1842 ... .I suppose we differ from most colleges. Dr. Walker of Cambridge said to me at Commencement, "We compel our students to attend Ch. If one stay[s] away once, he is reprimanded; 2ce he is suspended; 3 times he is expelled from the University." On telling him how we manage in such cases, he said, "That's the way I've told our folks we ought to manage." 
While looking at our library, I said, "This is small: yours is much larger; we are not well supplied with the implements for teaching." He. "Yes, we have a large library but one half-full; one half of the books are good for nothing." 
Wednesday September 14, 1842. Dr. Beecher is said to have been very negligent in his dress and far from looking like the man he is and a doctor of Divinity. Riding once among strangers in a stage coach, they spoke of this peculiarity of the Dr., not knowing that he was among them, and gave the Rev. Divine a complete "blackballing" for his rusticity. The Coach stopped at a tavern and the Dr., having some curiosity to judge of the truth of his fellow travellers account of him, immediately visited a looking glass. After surveying himself a while he says, "Well, they are right: I dont look much like a Doctor of Theology"! 
Thursday SeptemberlS, 1842. Dr. Tellkampf, [n]who has visited Cincin[n]at[t]i lately, gives a much better account of his personal appearance. His study ls the most delightful room he ever saw used for that purpose, elegantly furnished, well supplied with books and looking towards a delightful grove. He is a most entertaining man in his personal intercourse. The Dr. once had a religious revival in his Ch. at Litchfield, Conn. and, having been accustomed to relieve the labours of his profession with the music of a violin, he still continued the practice. When one day, his house being open, one of his Deacons passed by and hearing the sound of the viol stepped in. Amazed and horror-struck he said, "Dr. Beecher! How can you"? Dr. B. "What?" Deacon. "How can you play upon the viol at such a solemn season as 
/031 
this"? Dr. B. "Go to! Deacon M. If Christians are not to enjoy themselves in this world, who are?" --and so went on with his fiddling. 
Friday September 16, 1842. This has been a season of unparalled abundance of every thing except money. The earth never yeilded such bountiful harvests; yet everybody groans under the burthen of what we call "Hard Times." No one is satisfied with the state of the country. Its politics are out of joint; Congress has done nothing after 9 months session; the President is an obstinate stupid ass. Some want a high tariff, some a low one, others none at all. But aside from all fault-finding and croaking about the present state of things, I think it cannot be denied that all manufacturers are hard put to it to keep their factories in operation. When they suffer, of course farmers feel it too. The tariff passed at the last session is said to be sensibly felt throughout the country already. 
Saturday September 17, 1842. The prices of flour, which perhaps are a fair indication of the abundance of the harvest and the value of money, are as follows. In New York $4.50 to 4.75. In Cincinati 2.50$ a barrel. Boston about 5.$. Buffalo 3. 75$. A farmer said to me: "What I have now on my ground would have brought 300$ last year; it wont bring 100$ this year." A great deal of beef has been sold this year for less than the cost of the salt and barrel to keep it in. Pork at the west will absolutely not pay for putting it up and transporting to market. 
Sunday September 18, 1842. Mr. Church preached to[day] at Baptist Ch. on the duties and qualifications of Deacons. This subject was suggested by the recent election of Messrs. Draper, James Marston and John Vine as Deacons, in place of Deacons Bailey and Ralfe, removed, and Dea. Champion, deceased. An exellent young man, this Mr. Ch[urch], of an exellent spirit, pious, anxious to do good; patient 
áunder the discouragements he meets with (and they are many here) --a passable preacher and improving. I should not judge that his fort lay in eminent preaching gifts. He is diffident, retiring, preaches with a trembling heart. 
Monday September 19, 1842. A complete April day. It has rained and shined a dozen times, the ground is soaked. It is curious to see with what facility news is published now by newspapers. Nothing escape[s] the eye of the editors; they now chronicle the most trifling circumstance of an evening party at a citizen's house! The world seems mad after news and there are men who are ready to cook it up for them, well spiced and seasoned. The historian 100 years from now will have an easy task if he can get hold of a file of old newspapers of this time, provided only (which will be no easy matter) he can sift truth from falsehood. What dont we have in newspapers --whole books now! A 2 vol. novel at once in one sheet and sent to any part of the country for a cent and a half by mail! A biography of Henry Clay in a newspaper! Engravings and pictures without number! The pictorial "New World" as big as a bed quilt! "Pictorial Bro. Jonathans" with 200 Engravings on a sheet! What next! What a fidgety world! What will the march of improvement lead us to next! 

Tuesday September 20, 1842. An arrival --Jacob Smart and wife and son Alfred, my Uncle, Aunt and Cousin, from Rochester N. Y., quite unexpected. 
Wed. September 21, 1842. Arrival 2d. My Bro.-in-law Henry Hosford from Utica. Weather the sad forerunner of a too early fall and winter --cold, windy, and blustering. Autumn is the sorrowful season --the funereal page[a]nt of summer beauties. It is the old age of the year, dreary precursor of the winter-death. Would that summer might ever reign, the only season of gladness and pleasurable existence -.or that I had wings (not Icarian; but golden wings) with which I could seek the sunny south or the balmy isles of the tropics, leaving old winter and his dreary loneliness behind! 
Thursday September 22, 1842. The first half-century of the existence of Union College is nearly passed. In 1845 there should be a grand celebration, a gathering of the graduates, speeches and a strenuous effort to raise 10,000$ for the Library and Apparatus of the Coll. 
Friday September 23, 1842. Some one ought, moreover to give a history of the Coll. down to the present time, materials for which it is high time he were collecting. There should be preserved short biographys of all her leading graduates--the ages, deaths, and professions of all, with their places of residence. The Library should contain a copy of all the books, maps, pamphlets, newspapers, and other publications of the Graduates as a memorial of her sons. Who knows but ... 
/033 
Saturday September 24, 1842 .... what life enough will yet show itself in them to get up a numerous and public-spirited assembly in 1845? I know not why it is, but it seems that fewer of our graduates ever return to visit their Alma Mater than at any similar Institution in the country. We have more than 2000 grad; yet too few take any interest in the Coll. after they leave. They seldom look after its interests or consider that she has any claim upon them. They have a catholic spirit, perhaps more honorable on the whole, which will not permit them to think this the only respectable College in the country or the only one worthy of their patronage or support. 
Sunday September 25, 1842. In the Bap. Ch. preached that eccentric, yet talented man, Lovel, who has been in this part of the country some 5 years or more. First he preached in Utica, then in Norway or Warsaw, 15 m[onths] off, then at Westerloo and now on trial at Troy. He preaches some most eloquent and instructive sermons and yet has one defect. He turns his heart inside out to every one. Wants common prudence and stability, but not assurance. I fear he will never stay long anywhere. 
Monday September 26, 1842. Uncle and Aunt S. left this morning for home. Politicians call themselves by two names now, Whigs and Democrats (or Locofocos). These are the two great parties. Pres. Tyler has a few friends who call themselves Tylermen. It is a singular fact that the Pres. is without a party. The Whigs, who put him into power, have long ago thrown him overboard and the Democrats are loath to pick him up unless they can make him serve their interests. Thus Mr. T., being at swords points with his own party (the Whigs), who are in the ascendant in Cong., has done little else but to veto their bills the last session to the extreme vexation of the Whigs. In all these pol[itical] squabbles I fear Uncle Sam will be.come a goose and suffer himself to be picked until not a feather is left. 
Tuesday September 27, 1842 .. The "Boney Collection" of minerals was bought of Mr. John Boney of Schenectady in 1840 for 300$. It is worth remembering that this man, from a poor miserable drunkard became a steady man some years since, and he attributes his reformation to his taste for minerals acquired at Scoharie. After loosing both character, health, and property in Schenectady, he removed to Scoharie, turned over a new leaf, and commenced his trade (tailor) there anew. To occupy his leisure time (he says) he enthusiastic in the search for specimens and in 6 years collected an immence number, forming a very resspectable cabinet. In his occupation he forgot his cups entirely, recovered his health and character and is now doing a fair business at his trade. 

used to run  out into the hills encompassing Sco[harie]  and pick up  
such curious stones and fossils as he saw.  
Thus  a  taste  was  awakened  for  Mineralogy.  He became  

Wednesday September 28, 1842. One day last week (Thurs.) who should drop in but my classmate and crony Henry Belden. He has borne the last 7 years since I saw him very well. He looks more man[n]ish, plumper, but he is the same "Hane Belden." "While in College," says he, "I was a woeful backslider, hadnt any religion at all, was no more fit for a minister than a president; I look back upon my 3 years of Coll. life as almost utterly mis[s]pent." However that [may be] he has undoubtedly repented heartily of his levity, talks piously and appears decided in his character. "Hane" married 3 years ago, and has 2 children (boys) now, is pastor over a little ch. of his own getting up at Bloomingrove, Orange Co. and has had a precious revival the past year. I am a little ... 
Thursday September 29, 1842 .... inclined to think him a "perfection.ist," al tho' I wouldnt say certainly; his abolition principles have given him some trouble, as I have been told, and was the cause of his leaving a ch. in Orange Co. over which he was pastor. One little circumstance will show how much more tender his conscience is now than formerly. When here in Coll. he was one of the "book committee" of the Philomathean Soc. This com[mittee] divided among themselves a few old odd numbers of periodicals belonging to the Soc. of which Belden had 4 [as] his share. He has now brought them back for the Soc., thinking it wrong to keep them. Again, he lent a singing book to Jerry Eaton who told him to take another in place of it from the Bap. Choir, so he did; that he has brought back too; fearing, he took not one of Eaton's but some of the other singer's book. Thus we see the power of religion upon the conscience and actions of men, making them more honest and anxious for others welfare. 
Friday September 30, 1842. Met Charles D. Norton (grad. '38), Buffalo, upon Canal bridge today. "Well", says he, "I understand you have got me down "dead" on your Triennial Catalogue which is about to appear." I said that we had heard of his being very sick of the consumption and that there was no prospect of his recovery, but had never heard of his death. He: "I have been very sick, havnt been out 

of my room but 3 weeks since last fall; that Buffalo climate is a hor.
rible one for consumptions -its getting worse and worse. Dont think I have so much an infection of the lungs as of the throat or bronchitis. I am on my way now to St. Augustine, Florida. Sorry to leave my proffession (law), wouldnt have lost my situation in Buffalo for 1000$" Poor fellow! I hope a more temperate winter may do him good, for he looks a mere shadow of the hale, healthy, bouyant young man who left here a few years ago. He is a man of very considerable talents, quick, sprightly, confident of success and if he lives almost sure to gain some eminence. 
Saturday October 1, 1842. On the 8th of Aug. Dr. Nott, aged 70, was married to Miss Urania Sheldon of about 35. The news has just arrived of a similar marriage of an old widower, Dr. James of Utica, to Miss Macbeth of Hudson. So much were his friends surprised at this that they did not so much as know that the 2 were acquainted beyond a ride from Utica to Schendy in the R. R. Coaches. 
There has been a stir in town to c~tch a couple of young rascals, Jim Kennedy and a Hall, who knocked down an Irishman Wed. night and robbed him of his money on the railroad. The Devil seems to be let loose in some parts. Crime has much increased this year according to accounts. Why? ___ 
Glorious day--one of those-soft balmy fall days so delightful to enjoy. With Dr. Tellkampf, walked to the Aqueduct. A pleasant companion like him, with a cigar and apple, a beautiful day, and gorgeous autumn foliage, wide prospects of the Mohawk, and distant murmurs of the rips at the Aqueduct. These are enough to make a pleasant foot jaunt. This we had; and an appetite for supper. 
Sunday October 2, 1842. Mr. Church preach[ed] 1 hour and 2 minutes this morning at the Bap. Ch. 'Tis'nt every man that can preach an hour-sermon to the profit of his hearers. Half an hour is enough for most men. Mr. C. preaches hard, it's up hill work altho' he improves; hence if he knew his own interest as well as his hearers (perhaps) he would'nt scatter so much, but condense his sermon into a short time. Communion in the afternoon. 
Monday October 4, 1842. The Faculty of Union College consists of 12 Profs. and Tutors --with 2 or 3 exceptions not very eminent men nor very anxious to be so. Most of them will never become notorious; they have but one book-maker and he an industrious, laborious man. Perhaps we should not regret that it is so. Folks that supply most 
ID3k 
matter to their printer, supply little to their readers and pupils. suppose many an exellent teacher never wrote a book, perhaps were never known to fame beyond the affection of their students. Be ,as it may, our Faculty dont generally make books; of course they cant be very learned men! I allow that and that they are lazy too, some of them. They say our ... 
Tuesday October 4, 1842 .... students.are lazy too, and lawless, that we have a Botany Bay here &[o]c. It would be a blessing surely if no other Inst[itution] had any lazy boys; perhaps they have'nt or else we have much more than our share and hence the [o]pprobious charge. Well we have lazy boys. What then? Send them off! Nay, if they have no moral turpitude which would contaminate their fellows, may they not be permitted to learn a little? Or, after all, is it better to turn loose every one who has not a good share of brains and industry to use them? If we are Botany Bay, it must be admitted that we have made some very clever young men out of those very hard and supposed incorrigible cases that others had or would have thrown off. 
Wednesday October 5, 1842. As I said before, the Fae. is not far known as literary men, except 2 or 3. Dr. N. never published more than a small vol. of speeches to graduates, 2 or 3 sessions. His speech on the death of Hamilton gained him more fame than many a man's thick volume. He was once an orator of no mean power, but I doubt that he was so learned as some of his contemporaries! --so learned in books! He knows men, studies them. As I've said 100 times before, his library could almost be put in my pocket and consists of a few vols. of sermons &c. He professes to have had a very respectable one once, but folks have borrowed, and taken off all but a remnant. True, no doubt. I suppose he has observed that his books are few and unimportant and that an excuse is necessary for his own credit. Much time has he spent in perfecting certain mechanical inventions: á coal stoves, a steamboat for burning coal, perfecting lottery schemes 
to improve the College funds, lending these funds to ... 
Thursday October 6, 1842 ... .individuals on bonds and mortgages and what not. He is our Pres[iden]t, Treasurer, Trustees, "Boss and all hands." It has hitherto been well perhaps that so much unlimited power has been invested in so able hands. "The times" bear hard now upon Coll, funds, they are large but unproductive, not less perhaps now than 600 or 700 thousand$ &c. Dr. N. in his financial administration for the Coll. has often been harshly slandered --as 
/037 
having squandered the funds or grossly misapplied them. This does not a[p]pear improbable[?] and shown to be untrue totally by the testimony of the Trustees. Some have tho't it to be a defect in his character; that [he] is shrewd, cunning, and able to accomplish a purpose by management; and insinuate that [it] is sometimes done at the expence, a slight, small expence, of morality. Must one be a witch to do a cute thing? 
This same thing Hiram Barney (of New York) spoke to me about 
and said: "The Doct. spoke to me about it sometime since because no 
doubt he had heard that I censured him before some friend of his." 
Friday October 7, 1842. A decided Teetotlar is he and the patron of Mr. Delavan; but one thing in this cause has the Dr. failed entirely in (I mean, in my view, and perhaps others think), that is, in his Bible argument about wine, he is not the first who has tumbled over this question and cracked his cranium. On the slavery question he professes to take sides with the Abolitionists, and is about as much one as most Northern men; perhaps a little more. In fact so much does he keep aloof from party strife of every kind that he never gets excited; no man was ever more of a philosopher. It may storm as it pleases, and he is the moon shining mildly through all and never a partaker of the strife; he takes the "Juste millieu" course. He throws oil upon the wave troubled. No one ever judged a cause more dispassionately; more justly. 
Saturday October 8, 1842. Dr. Proudfit has been here something like 23 years, the same clever, unvarying old gentleman. He teaches from the same book, rides the same horse, wears the same coat and smokes the same pipe for ought I know that he did 20 years ago; never changing but from necessity, for which I like him the better. 
He is a native of Penn., was educated under Dr. Nesbit and preached for some years to a congregation in Broadalbin from whence he was called here. It may be no disparagement to him to say that he is old-fashioned in all his views; perhaps he's none the worse for that. As a preacher, most esteem him dull without animation or the least particle of eloquence, yet those who like good didactive sermons, who desire the more to be taught than amused, will find him an exellent minister. As a teacher many think him wanting in energy, training the student[s] too little (all fail here), not critical and severe. But if great things can not be said of him, at least it may that he never had an enemy, is ever kind-hearted and in.dulgent to failings and errors of others, not often pleased with the modern notions and changes either in religion or morality, College or State. The old paths are the best to him. Students have imposed upon his good nature; general[l]y a respect for his age and talents preserve him from mischeivous tricks. 

Sunday October 9, 1842. Wilson Ingalls of Glenville preached in Pres. Ch. Many went expecting to hear Dr. Nott. The sermon we might criticize but forbear; 'twas equal at least to the man much or a little. Wilson has [had] some rare passages in his life. In College he was a pious, good young man and an occasional "exhorter" -a recom.mendation to Mr. John Nott's notice, who then supplied most of Dutch pulpits in this county out of the city. John got Wilson into his Princetown parish and introduced him to Dutch families. He improved his acquaintance so much as to fall in love with a rough, coarse Dutch girl named Sitterly--at least I suppose that was her character, for every one said so who knew. Well, Wilson graduated and was about to return to his Native New England to study Theology at Andover; before going however he married Miss Sitterly (to show her and her parents the sincerity of his attachment) but did not con.sum[m]ate the marriage; on the contrary, kept it a profound secret and started off at once for Andover, leaving his dear spouse at a school in Schenectady to improve her mind and manners. But who can keep such an affair secret? John Nott tied the knot and he was the first to untie the bag and let the cat out; "the fat was in the fire then". Miss Apol[l]onia's school mates led her a sad life of teasing and vexation, and Mr. Ingals thought it his duty to make an apology to his friends in College here in College. He left the Sem. in Andover and went to preaching on his own hook, got ordination at some obscure Cong[regational] Ch[urch], came back to his dear wife, consumated his marriage: got a Dutch congregation at Glenville and has five children. Vale Wilson! 
Monday October 10, 1842. They say that this is a most charming fall and in truth it is, if so melancholy a season can be called charming. 
Prof. Proudfit, Tif. Du. Orp.[?] (No. 2 fac.), is among the most industrious men we have with the hoe and plough; I should say that he did not trouble books enough to disturb their dust; perhaps his age should exempt him from severe study, for he knows his recitations perfectly, they being the same he heard 20 years ago or more. 
Tuesday October 11, 1842. Potter (No. 3 fac.) is next to Prex the most famous man in our set. He is an exellent scholar, industrious, knows something about everything and is getting to be an inveterate book maker. Whether he writes for money or fame or to do good, I know not; thus far, however, he has done nothing in this way that has given him much fame. "Of making books there is no end" may well be said of him and herein, I fear, he will fail. If all he has written had never been and instead one good well-digested book had received the powers of his mind and long labour, it might have been worthy of him. 

Wednesday October 12, 1842. He's a wordy, grand[i]loquent man -.he's no Saxon spoken. He is cocked and primed for any occasion, on any subject, often very happy in his extempore efforts, sometimes shoal, windy, large spoken. He has a great mind but cant stop to mature, dig deep and bring up from the bottom. No matter, this is going to be the greatest man in the set if he's not now. His efforts in the cause of education in this state have had a happy effect and will be felt more some time hence. 
Thursday October 13, 1842. Some think him austere and haughty; so he seems but in reality is not. He has changed some. Once the boys hated him or, rather, some disliked him much for his stiff, unbending manners towards them; that's gone, I imagine. He's more popular and highly respected for his talents. 
Friday October 14, 1842. Estay. A singular compound of good and bad and, if I should follow the old adage of saying nothing of one except what is good, I should leave the half untold of some men. But it is often dangerous and wrong to tell the truth--better far to say nothing. He has exellent talents: a powerous[?] language, a happy, fluent, pleasant way of saying things, often piquant and put to the point, but a marvellous tendency to exaggeration. Does not this often fall in[to] slander? I have known a man of age, experience, education, piety(?) to make sad havoc of his own friends characters and feelings, so that he became distrusted by them --inwardly hated, despised. Tis not so with him? A very pleasant sermon he preaches, they say; and most delight to hear it save those same of whom it may be said they know his conversation to[o] well to believe him sincere in any good thing he does. Perhaps this is too severe, slanderous, perhaps not. 
Saturday OctoberlS, 1842. It is sad, a sad perversion of precious talents, for a minister especially to be corrupt at heart and show that so much as to lose his influence among his friends, so that they think him a hypocrite--a pious man without morality or a fair honest life 

and conversation. I have never known many such. But sometimes 
even a D. D. may [have?] so many faults or rather plague spots on his 
character that [it] is not well to disturb it, else it looks worse than it 
was thought or it is proper to be known. 
He is a lazy man--so are most of the set. Literary labor, like other work, is irksome to the greater number, hence they make theá little they do go as far as possible. This is a superficial scholar--a writer of considerable prettiness but not much force or depth. 
Sunday October 16, 1842. His expressed opinion of the authority of the Sabbath is perhaps right altho' most of the orthodox would say it was wrong and of an immoral tendency. It is this: that the Sabbath is not of divine appointment, I mean the day, the particular day; that the Christian Sab. is only observed from custom, a custom of many ages in the church and therefore well to be observed by us, but no more binding upon us than any other day save from this circumstance. 
Monday October 17, 1842. Jon Cask, a dapper little man of exellent talents, good sense, quick, clever and positive: a kind-hearted and generous man, a little irascible but never abusive or unreasonable. He is enthusiastic in whatever he pursues and has an exellent taste, likes gardening and mathematics, in both of which he excels. The former is his summer hobby or perhaps his principal study at all seasons. No one with such limited means can make a prettier garden, these 8 years the little plat north of his house has been a paradise. 
Tuesday October 18, 1842. 
[No entry though several pages are left blank as though JP planned to fill them with character sketches for all the remaining faculty--who numbered twelve at the time] 
[Gap from October 18 to October 28] 
Friday October 28, 1842. Our boy Hane, now 3 mos old, having been born on the 5th day of Aug. at 1/2 past 12 in the morning, is a most wonderful boy already. He goos most beautifully and so on. His weight has been as follows at the beginning of each fortnight on Sat. (7 lbs 4 oz when born): 8, 6; 9, 8; 11, 5; 12, 10; 13, 2; 13, 10. 
Saturday October 29, 1842. As fine a day as one could expect in fall. Awoke this morning just as the last bell began to toll. Arose in haste, 
/04-1 
put on breeches in haste and ran in verv e:reat haste. arriving .1t thP 
l,hapei aoor, Just as bell stopped, breathless and so forth. This /{)LI2,..tardiness was caused thus: 1st, supper party at Dr. Potters last evening, oysters fried and scalloped, chicken salad, sweet potatoes, ice cream! chocolate, coffee and cigars; wound up at 12 o'clock. 2nd When in bed couldnt sleep till 2 o'clock. The table, arranged thus, 
[Place picture of table here] 
would appear in my dreams and drive away sleep and finally the baby Hane (if you want sound sleep, dont have them) piped up and completed my wakefulness till near light. Then deep sleep fell upon me&c .. 
Sunday October 30, 1842. Can there be no union among Christian sects? Or must they till the end of time hack at and devour each other? The best book ever written for the Baptists and indeed for other sects is Robert Hall's Examination into Close Communion; to this I would add good old John Bunyan's book on the same subject. Although these 2 books were addressed particularly to Baptists, in their spirit they are applicable to most other Christians. These two 
books ... 
Monday October 31, 1842 .... have made a deep impression upon my own mind of the possibility on very consistent grounds of the Union of Christian Sects. The authors are of such pure and eminent piety that the most implicit confidence can be indulged in, respecting their motives. 
Tuesday November 1, 1842. ______ is a clergyman and man of the world, can crack a good joke and tell a smutty story as well as any one. How glaring an inconsistency in a Christian and how much more so in a minister of the Gospel. A P1:"iest, a man of the world! What a paradox! and is _____ the only sinner? Nay, verily. 
I would not for the life of me say ought against him or any other man that would ever get abroad in the world and injure him: he is ********'s friend and among his best. 
Wednesday November 2, 1842. His talents are certainly respectable, perhaps more than this, but he has never done much more than the ordinary duties of his office and never will, for like most of his colleagues he is lazy and likes his ease. *******is also extravagant in his expenditures--perhaps he may be so without danger, for his 
/043 
connections are said to be wealthy and able to contribute to his necessities. I once knew the time when he was decidedly unpopular with the ________ and but little respected. 
Thursday November 3, 1842. Twas said then and I partly believe it, that he did not know as much as his ____ . Latterly he has gained in their estimation and now stands well. 
Friday November 4, 1842. ____ is a dapper little man, yes a man with a small corporation but a big soul. Smart, enthusiastic, fiery, kind, generous and obliging. He came into his office about the same time as ****** and has a decided bump for his profession. Neverthe.less, gardening is his great fort and study, no man ever showed more taste in it. He makes much with little means. 
Saturday November 5, 1842. Dr. **** says, ''Clay and Jackson have done more injury to this country than any other two men who have ever lived in it: the first, by his late manuvoeuring in Congress to head Capt Tyler and get himself into the Presidential Chair; the other, by his tricking up the currency, and rash impolitic and hasty acts." 
Sunday November 6, 1842. In these days we have many new wonders in the religious world, new sects, new doctrines and some miracles and prophets! E.g. Joe Smith of Nauvoo, of the sect called Mormon. One Miller of Washington Co., N.Y. a pious good man, but uneducated, full of zeal, with his disciple has made much stir preaching the immediate personal coming of Christ, --in 1843. Most people think this doctrine of the personal appearing of Christ to be a new one and originating with Mr. Miller, hence those who believe in the literal interpretation of Scriptures are called Millerites. 
Monday November 7, 1842. But without any truth whatever, one of the best interpreters of prophecy in modern times, Mr. Mede, was a literalist. It is absurd to deride Mr. M's doctrines, therefore, as many do; he may be mistaken as to the year of Christs' appearing, yet many eminent interpreters think it will be soon. He may be fanatical, yet even that should not bring these doctrines into disrepute. The common effect of an illiterate man's teaching, however, In the eyes of the world is to bring whatever doctrines he upholds into disrepute. 
Tuesday November 8, 1842. It always has been so; most people look too much to the humble instrument. I will warrant that the people of 
}041+ 
Jerico and indeed some of the Jews themselves laughed heartily at Joshua's curious plan of beseiging the city --by blowing ram's horns about it. They called him a fanatic doubtless, and thought him the greatest of fools. We should beware, therefore, how we discard a man's preaching because he is humble and insignificant as the world count greatness. 
Wednesday November 9, 1842. ******says that the abolitionists will soon become the leading political party at the North, that in '48 they will undoubtedly be able to bring a strong force to bear upon the presidential election. Indeed there seems to be no improbability that such will be the case; on the contrary everything seems to point to such a result. It only requires facts to be known, says he, to make every man at the North an abolitionist. 
Thursday November 10, 1842. When political newspapers begin to publish such as open men's mind, the effect will be instantly felt, and one party or the other will join with the abolitionists whenever they see that the balance of power lies with them. However much men may poh! at these opinions of his, his age and experience should certainly give them much weight when taken in connexion with the signs of the times. 
Friday November 11, 1842. Enough is already known of the result of Tuesdays' election to show that Loco-foco's have it all their own way. Bouck is elected Gov. by from 15,000 to 20,000 maj[ority]. Since Harrison died, the Whigs have been discouraged and met with continual ill success. All is lost with them now, and they know it. In '44 they feel quite sure of arising in their strength and electing Clay for President. They may, but doubt hangs over their future hopes. 
Saturday November 12, 1842. They are not good politicians! mean they can[not] intrigue and manage successfully. The other party have always been noted for that. They dont know how to secure an advantage. They cant keep in when they get the power. Radical*****, I fear, is the destiny of this democracy; our tendency, I fear, is for the worse instead of the better. Public opinion, and that by no means the most enlightened, is more powerful than law or religion. We're too much governed, we've too many laws, too many offices to scramble for and of course too many scrambling politicians. We're too extravagant, too eager to get rich, which leads to bankruptcy, dis.honesty, fraud and downright robbery. 

Sunday November 13, 1842. May the Lord preserve this people fromá the fearful evils which I spoke of yesterday. The downward tendency of our moral progress within the last 15 years is not a thing to be smiled at as the croakings of a man of a disordered fan.cy. Says Isaiah Townsend Esqr., 11After 6 years absence from the country I was astonished to see how changed the morals of the people were for the worse." 
Sunday November 14, 1842. But it is not necessary, however, for one to go out of the country to see this change. The unbounded speculations of the past 10 years have made dishonest men, and the prevaling licentiousness of press and manners have made a most profligate commuity of Frenchified, unbelieving, selfish men. 
Tuesday November 15, 1842. It is strange to what extremes we have pushed things in this country. We are not content with a healthy success, we must have a bloated inflation. We had credit, we must strain it till it breaks. We had a healthy democracy, we now want a mobocracy, the vile, low, filth[y] dregs of the community must rule, and all legislation must tend downward to their level. 
Wednesday November 16, 1842. The license of the press degenerates to licentiousness. We have lowered the supremacy of the laws, instead of strenghening them. We have sought after wealth and ended in bankruptcy and dishonor --but enough!. All this may be twaddle. I hope it is: yet I fear. The great body corporate ls sickly in some of its members, I fear. Our good points however are many; would they were more! 
Thursday November 17, 1842. Among all the arrivals to our goodly little city I must notice one Mr. Edward Tuckerman, because he has the same pursuits and tastes for nat. history as myself. This same Mr. 
T. was my pupil in Botany in '37. Having acquired a taste for the study, he has followed it ever since --has travelled in Europe, pur.chased a beautiful library, exchanged plants, and now comes on to his alma mater to study again. The Pupil... 
Friday November 18, 1842 .... now knows more than the Master. With his wealth and leisure he certainly ought to do something for science. He comes for the purpose of studying his plants and teaching Bot[any] in the Coll. next summer. 

Saturday November 19, 1842. Of [all] the odd mortals I ever knew John Nott surpasses all. He is a bachelor of some 40 years, a kind of bishop of the neighboring Dutch Churches, blind almost in both eyes, rides an old white horse ***** boned and spavined, with a hair trunk strapped behind him for a valise, is a patron of all poor folks [and] small children, whom he employs to read for him. He never got married because nobody would have him. 
Sunday November 20, 1842. Bishop Hinds sermons on the Prophe.
cies, an exellent book, concise, pithy, much in a little. The 
propositions are well sustained by short but cogent reasons. 
Monday November 21, 1842. John Foster is the native growth of Wash. Co., somewhat uncouth in manners, but of an exellent disposition and heart He came here 6 years ago and, with the ex.ception of 6 mos. at Albany, has performed his duties ever since. He is of an uncouth, comical character and stands deservedly high in his profession. 
Tuesday November 22, 1842. Capt Marryat writes another of his Peter Simple novels called Percival Keene, the counterpart of the former. I cant help liking to run thro' one of his flashy books once in a while altho on the whole I have no very high opinion either of the man or his novels. They are all low comedy. 
Wednesday November 23, 1842. There never was a time perhaps when men did not cry out "hard times"; but there is certainly some truth for it now. Such scarcity of money and consequent want of something to do for which an adequate compensation can be obtained, were never so severely felt before in this country by all classes of men. 
It would seem that we must look in vain to our statesmen for any remedy. Politicians mutually charge each other with the cause and trumpet forth their cures for the out-of-jointedness of matters. In the mean time the people are as badly off as the ass between 2 [bundles?] of hay, where he starved because he couldnt make up his mind which to eat. 
Thursday November 24, 1842. We must admit that our politicians regard the country as a goose which they think themselves to have a perfect right to pluck whenever they can get a chance. I fear the ambition of corrupt men will ruin us yet. Morals of all sorts have gone down amazingly these latter years --this is no croaking: especially the political morals. Men's consciences wont hold them back from almost any vlllany to carry a point at an election. Folks called religious --respectablechurch members --spend their thousands of dollars to buy votes and tell good sound political lies as if 'twere no sin. If the world dont come to an end, as some good men interpret, I fear the bad will swallow the good up and the earth become as Sodom and G _____ . 

[Gap from November 24 to December 20, 1842] 
Tuesday December 20, 1842. Winter has been fairly commenced these 2 weeks. The first snow, 1 1/2 ft deep, making good sleighing and a merry jingling of bells. This collegiate vacation, which began the first of this month, will continue till the 13th of next for the con.venience of schoolmasters. Thus far it passes pleasantly and usefully with me. 
Mr. Tuckerman, of whom I have before spoken, has in his collection of dried plants a large number of duplicates from which he has kindly allowed me to select for the College and myself. This work has employed me now about 3 weeks. 
Wednesday December 21, 1842. A delightful morsel of news has just arrived for the newspapers and news-eaters. 
The U.S. Brig Sommers, from the coast of Africa just in, has a part of her crew in irons for mutiny. The three ring-leaders were tried and hung at the yard arm before getting into New York. There were Philip Spencer, Mld[shipman], the boat-swain, and sailing master. This Spencer is son of the Sec. of War, and was but a short time since a mem[ber] of our Coll. He came from Geneva here with a very bad reputation. 
Thursday December 22, 1842. If there ever was a time when true Christians ought to pray for the purification of the Church, to strive for the progress of heart-religion, this ls that time. Christendom lords it over the whole world, she fights with the pagan and conquers him, she has all the refinement, the arts, science. She confesses too that all these are due to Christianity. Should'nt it be fashionable then to be a Christian? Alas, how many such fashionable Christians there are in the world! They are the "by ends" of good old John Bunyan. 
Friday December 23, 1842. Some such quarrel much about hairsplitting questions, others talk incessantly about liturgies, canons, "Antient Christianity," the fathers, etc., and not one word 

about heart-religion This I call material religion or skin-deep 
religion. In the Episcopal Ch. it is lamentable to see the spirit which 
prevails of making the ceremonies and rubrics and antique customs 
the [be] all and in all among what is called the High Ch. party, which 
holds to Mr. Pusey's doctrines. 
Saturday December 24, 1842. "The Churchman," printed at N. Y., con.
tained the following articles Dec. 1 7: "Plain words to plain people in the present dissentions of the Ch., London1842. Poetry, Our Father. The Rev. D.T.K. Drummond's resignation --a dispute between him and his Bishop about using the Liturgy. St Ann's Hall, Flushing. Moderate Episcopacy, Antient Models, Duty of Church building, Low views of the church, American Church, The reformation, Effects of Puritanism, Modem innovations, The House of God, Modern Churches, Bishop Bishop Chase's critique on an article in the Spirit of Missions. Extracts from a "letter to the Rev. Henry V.D. Johns occasioned by the publication of his sermon entitled "The "Protestant Episcopal Pastor." Baltimore, Insidious productions. Some observations on some remarks against Dr. Pusey and his "ism." __________ Proselytism, Obs[ervations] on some remarks from the "Cross and Banner" upon Judge Lewis' opinion. Bishop Doane's letter about Mr. Schuykill of Athens, Greece, and Arch. Bish. of Canterbury. ____ _ 
It does seem to me that the above paper, professing to be a religious paper, comes far short of what it ought to be. There cannot be said to be one serious spiritual article in the whole number, but the sum of all is the outward form and circumstance of the church, or else a severe critique on some unlucky opponent. 
Sunday December 25, 1842. James Duane Esqr. died this morning about 1/2 past 2 oclock, it is said of an ailment of the heart. He was 7 3 years of age, universally respected by all who knew him. 
Mr. Backus, Pres. clergyman, is one of the hardest preachers to follow I have ever known. The substance of his sermon this morning was as follows: God made man upright but he sought out many inventions, he wants amidst profusion, he knows not what he wants. Says the Apostle, "Ye [but] ask and have not" &c. "In vain on earth we strive to find", &c. Watts. The Bible reveals the true cure for all this disease. Man wanders in this world as in a wilderness. The Bible slakes his thirst. Oh what a picture of human nature! But there is a worse one, man estranged from a kind Father and home where there is bread to spare, by his own will! And yet many ask, what lack I? Believe God when he represents you poor and naked. There is another class who admit the truth yet linger in Sodom to provide for the indulgence of their lusts. Can you despise thus the riches of God's goodness? Can you believe God's truth and practice the contrary? Remember Lot's wife. Will you not awake this morning? "If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God" &c .. The best of human teachers are insufficient. By asking, man may have peace of mind, blessedness of hope. Try it, my hearers! a great cloud of witnesses have testified to its efficacy. Try it to live by. Try it to .die by --a rod and a staff to gladden and lighten the dark way of the Valley of Death. But one says we can do nothing: if saved it will be by God's grace; you deceive yourselves, ask of God and if you ask aright you shall receive. Christ has died and abundant salvation is prepared for you. Salvation may well be styled of Grace when it is bestowed so freely on the undeserving; and if you do not accept, how dreadful the result. Come without delay before the season of opportunity is.passed." 

Monday December 26, 1842. Contents of Churchman, Dec. 24: A letter from Conn. to Elder Elias Lee, Anabaptist teacher in the vicinity of Ballstown N. Y. A discussion about when Christmas should come. Validity of Presbyterian orders, contending that they are void. Tractarianism. Catalogus senatus academici &c&c. in Collegis Washingtoniensi. Chancel furniture. A letter about Bishop Griswold's consecration. The festival of the dead. An apologetic letter in answer to Bishop Chase's of last week. No. 1 "The doctrine of the Eucharistic sacrifice." An enquiry about who wrote the "song of the angels," commencing, "While [angels] shepards watched their flock by night &c." Progress of Papery. Light and Shade, a controversy with the N. Y. Evangelist about whether Ch. men believe in Justification by faith. About the use of the title "Dissenters." The 31st Article, "a cut at the Catholic Herald. __ Clerical Changes. Day of the nativity. Notice of Christian books for presents. ***** of the old year by Jedidiah Huntington. A Christmas hymn from the breviary by the same author. A pastoral letter to the clergy and congregations of the Dioce[se] of N. Y. Intelligence: Plain words to plain people on the present dissentions in the church. 
Tuesday December 27, 1842, Most religious newspapers are too quarrelsome. For this I do not blame the Ch[air]man any more than others but while they quarrel about the spiritual matters, the doctrines and faith, it is occupied cheifly with discussions of externals. It is as if one should more highly esteem the garments than the body or soul of a man. 
{00 
Wednesday December 28, 1842. "Our neighbour" is the title of a Swedish novel translated by Mrs. Mary Howatt. The author is Frederika Bremer, a Lady. It is a sprightly entertaining book and gives a beautiful view of social and domestic scenes. I commend the authors playfulness and simplicity, her ingenuity and freedom [from?] affectation; few books of this I ever have the patience to read thro'. Our mails are now circulating libraries, whole novels are printed and sent thro' them on big sheets called newspapers and sold for a [pittance?] so the poorest may read his newspaper novel. 
However good a cheap literature may be, I think it questionable whether ours will prove a blessing to the people. This mental stimulation with bad novels is worse than intoxication or strong spirits because "teetotalism" is an almost sure cure for the latter; but I fear we shall never be able to find any antidote for the former. 
Thursday December 29, 1842 .. Mrs. Agnes Strickland has lately translated a collection of Mary Queen of Scots' letters, made by Sabanoff. Many of them have never been published before. The book possesses much historical interest and gives a truer character of Mary than any biographer could have done. Her letters are admirable specimens of a fine epistolary stile of writing; few if any writers ever surpassed her in this department. There is generally great simplicity and often, in her letters to Elizabeth, stirring elequence. It is hard to imagine how the British Queen could withstand these appeals to permit the captive to go free. There seems ... 
Friday December 30, 1842 .... to be no evidence from these letters that Mary was guilty of those outrageous crimes for which she was arraigned: whatever faults she had were grievously attoned for by an almost 20-year imprisonment. Did she conspire against Eliza.beth's life and crown? No light is thrown upon this question by these letters. That she endeavoured to free herself from prison, no one can blame her. The fact is, place the affair in what light we will, Elizabeth showed a hard, an unrelenting heart towards Mary and gained everlasting disgrace by her death. For a woman to sign the death warrant of her nearest relative after keeping her in prison 20 years is a monstrous crime. 
Saturday December 31, 1842. We have had just a month of exellent sleighing. There is now upon the ground not less than 2 to 3 ft. of 
10S1 
snow. The last 18 in. fell on Thurs. and Friday. On Wed. night there was a grand arrival at my door of Mr. Nichol, Mr. Anable, and Misses Barber, A. M. Anable, Dumaux and Dorland, all in a large sleigh, direct from Utica; started for home yesterday at 1/2 past one, the untrodden [snow] being to the horses knees. Here ends another year, another chapter in our lives, and who knows but the last. This year, like all my former, has been crowned with goodness and mercy. Now ought those who can say that to lift their hearts in gratitude to the Author of every good and perfect gift! 

