
[Sunday] January 1, 1843. Heard Messrs. Backus and Church and was somewhat disappointed in not hearing a sermon appropriate to the occasion of the New Year. 
Monday January 2, 1843. Thro' the kindness of Prof. Jackson was permitted to make my calls with him in his sleigh. They were as follows: Prof. Jackson's. Saw Mrs. J., Mrs. William J. and Mrs. Averill. Prof. Potter. Saw only himself. Dr. Nott. No refreshments, in good taste there. Gen. Fiske. Couldnt make them hear. Dr. Proudfit, Mrs. P and Miss P. Mr. Alex. Kelley: one of the oldest men in town, quite deaf. Found him reading. Mr. Andrew McPherson. Mrs McP. and Grace White. Mr. Robt. Cunningham. Mrs. C. Mr. Robt. Brown. Mrs. R. 
B. Jr. and Miss M. B. Mrs. Kane. Mrs. Cobb and 2 Misses Kanes. Mrs. Walton, did'nt receive calls. Judge Riley: a very old and vigourous man. 
Mrs. Holland, Her. Mr. Riggs, Her. Dr. Craig, Her. Wine? Dr. Van Vechten, Mrs. VanV. and Mrs. Savage. Judge Tomlinson. Mrs. T. and young Mrs. T. Mrs. Boyd, Her and two daughters. Mr. Pothout, Her and daughter. Maj. Martin (wine), Mrs. Crosby, Miss M. and Gen. M. Mr. Platt Potter not at home. Mrs. Walters, Her and daughters. Dr. Yates, Her and Daughters. Mr. Thompson. Mrs. & Miss. T .. Mrs. Fuller, Her and 3 daughters. Miss Graham, Her. Mr. Wm. Walton, Mrs. W . . Miss J. Craig and Miss Frost. Mr. Gibson, Her. Mr. Paige, dont receive calls. Mr. Mumford -ditto . Judge Linn's: Mrs. L., Miss Hansen and Miss Franchot. Mr. Lyman. Mrs. Foster and Miss Mitchell. Mr. Carley, Her(wine). Miss Macfarlane, Her. Mr. Palmer, Her and three daughters (wine). 
Mr. Grout, Her and Miss. Lee. Mr. Howes. Miss H. Mr. McCamus, Her. Mr. Harvey Davis, Her and Misses D. Mr. Young, Her (wine). Mr. Backus, Her. Dr. Dunlap, Her and 2 Misses Briton. Mr. Gilbert, Her. Mr Church. Mr. Beckley, Mrs. B. and Miss S. Bishop Hedding, a venerable man. Rev. Mr. Goss. and Rev. Mr. Harwood &c. 

Mrs. Kelley, 3 Misses K. Mr. Swits. Mrs. S and Misses Viele. Mr. Ward, no calls. Mr. John Sanders, Her. Mr. James Fuller, Her. 
Tuesday January 3, 1843. After making the above everlasting roll of calls, went to Dr. Notts to dinner. Present besides Dr. and Mrs. Nott: Dr. and Mrs. Potter, Mrs. Benedict, Mr. Howard N. Mr. Benne. Howard Potter, and my little wife with myself. 
Dr. P[otter], having just returned from N. Y. had something to say about being detained in the Berkshire Mts by the last storm and about the criticisms upon his lectures in N. Y. 
Wednesday January 4, 1843. Some one spoke against the use of tobacco in the presence of Bishop Moore (of Va.) who defended the much slandered weed. The ******* asked the Bishop then to show him any warrant from scripture for its use, to whom the Bishop replied," Are we not command[ed] by David to "Praise the Lord with the Pipe?" 
Thursday January 5, 1843. When Prof Averill was last ill, just before his death, he decided upon leaving Schendy. Some one asked him if he would go to Stockbridge, Mass. where his wife's friend lives. "No," said he, "for altho Stockbridge has many intelligent, refined and polite inhabitants and is a fine place to live in, it is no place to die in. Unitarianism prevails there, I am told." 
Friday January 6, 1843. Dr. ******* gives the following views of the fitness of the various denominations of Xns. for the wants of the people. The Methodist, for the lower classes; Baptist, for middle classes; Episcopalian, for the rich, fashionable and refined; Presbyterian for the whining, hypocritical and mean --to which latter denomination he belongs. 
Saturday January 9, 1843. Dr. Alexander had a prosy dull, fellow in his class who talked much at random; after one of his pointless flights one day, the Doct. said, "Young Gentlemen, the 25th of next Dec., being Christmas, there will be no exercises in this Institution: The next gentleman!. 
[Check microfilm for the following passage] Sunday January 8, 1843. Let death seize upon them. Love your enemies, bless (his enemies) and let go them that curse you, do down quick into Hell: good to them that hate Let them melt away as you, and pray for them water that runneth con-that despitefully use tinually. you and persecute -be not merciful to any you: that ye may be wicked transgressors. the children of your Consume them in wrath, Father which is in Heav-consume them that they en: for he maketh his may not be." sun to rise on the evil and on the good and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love them that love you what reward have you? do not even the publicans the same? 

From the above few extracts, how much superior do the teachings of Christ appear, to the prayers of David respecting his enemies. Instead of praying to God to forgive his enemies as our Saviour did, even on the cross, David everywhere denounces them and prays that they may be destroyed. 
Monday January 9, 1843. Among *******'s peculiarities, is a neg.ligence of dress to some extent. One Sunday last summer he went to Ch. without stockings and wore only high shoes; in his pew sat Dr. ***** who look[ed] very sharp at the Dr's feet, perceiving I suppose that they were not properly clothed. ****** seeing that ****** re.garded his feet with some interest deliberately put one leg over the other and pulled up his pantaloons that he might have his curiosity properly gratified. 
[Gap from January 9 to February 5, 1843] 
Sunday February 5, 1843. Heard a Mr. Kingsley at the Bap Ch., an evangelist, who together with Mr. C. is endeavouring to stir up the Ch. to more zeal and holiness and to convert the unregenerate to God. Mr. K. preaches simple, plain, and stirring discourses upon practical subjects in a quiet way; tells some stories, makes some droll comparisons but generally apt and appropriate. Many of those extravagances with which "Revival Preachers" are charged, he is said to be free from. 
Monday February 6, 1843. Many staid and sober-minded Christians among all denominations have always objected to the "Measures" of these men. They may sometimes be objectionable. Mr. K's "Measures" seem to be as follows: 1st, He strives to arouse the church with which he labours, to get them in to a praying frame of mind. He urges them to talk with their acquaintances and pray with them and bring them to the meetings --thus ... 

Tuesday February 7, 1843 .... to make every Christian a kind of missionary in his own circle. 2d, One hour before sermon the brethren meet together for prayer with the converts and the "anxious"; after sermon the converts and those who wish to be prayed for are urged to come together into the front pews and the brethern are distributed about the crowded house to invite their acquaintances forward; after as many are seated in the "anxious seats" as are disposed to come, several prayers are offered for them. They are then told to arise and express their feelings, both male and female; much importance ... 
Wednesday February 8, 1843. tance seems to be attached to this exercise, as it is thought every step of this kind which mortifies the pride of the heart is an additional barrier against their ever going back again to the world. These are perhaps the leading features ot Mr. K's measures and indeed of every other evangelist with whom i have been acquainted. 
Thursday February 9, 1843. What then are the evils of them? Many objections have been urged from time to time by various learned and pious divines. Some think there is too much excitement and wildfire in these revivals; that many depend upon transient impressions for a change of heart; that these meetings give a Church a disrelish for more sober and quiet preaching; that they lead to spiritual pride in Christians; that God's willingness to bless in any other way is doubted; that they lead to the belief... 
Friday February 10, 1843 .... that a man's holiness is measured by the number of meetings he attends, and the number of public prayers and exhortations he makes: so that a more unobtrusive piety is dispised and tho't lightly of; that they bring confusion into public worship; that order is banished; that women are encouraged and commanded ... 
Saturday February 11, 1843 .... to speak in public contrary to Paul's advice; and that in general a reaction takes place in such churches where revivals have been and that such periodical revivals become necessary from time to time to keep them in existence, the ordinary means of grace being thought quite insufficient. Whether these objections are true or not, I think it must acknowledged that revivals have done incalculable good. 
!OS( 
Sunday February 12, 1843. Since the first of Jan. the Methodist and Baptists have held a series of meetings daily. Mr. Church of the Baptist has been assisted by an evangelist from the west by the name of Kingsley--a very acceptable preacher. Mr. K. commenced to preach 2 weeks ago last Wed. The labours of these servants of God seem to be abundantly blessed of Him. It is thought that scores have been converted into the Gospel and still there appears to be no stay of God's blessing. 
Monday February 13, 1843. The following are the weights of that infant prodigy, Master Henry Hosford Pearson, who is now a little more than 6 mos. old. On 29th Oct ult. he weighed 13 lbs,10 oz; Nov. 12: 14, 4; [Nov] 26: 15; Dec. 10: 16; [Dec] 24, 16 1/2; Jan. 28: 1 7 1 / 2; Feb. 11th: 18 1bs. This youngster is considered a great beauty (as he indeed is) by all his dady's and mamma's friends, has fine blue eyes, a promising head of dark hair, a fair skin and a well.shaped head. He is thought to be a very bright and sprightly boy. 
Tuesday February 14, 1843. It may be said of the present winter that [it] is ,a severe one: In Dec. the whole month through we had plenty of snow; the Jan. thaw carried most of it off and the ice with it. Feb. came in like a lion with a storm and cold weather. How it will go out remains to be seen. Poor people are very abundant and necessitous. There is little or no work for them and no money to pay them with. Provisions are uncommonly cheap. One can live fully 1 / 3 cheaper than he could 5 years ago. 
Wednesday February 15, 1843. It would be an interesting and useful work to fix truly the limit of human responsibility. If I mistake not, Dr. Wayland has written an essay on this subject which from his well-known ability must be full of sound doctrine. The teachings of some men in this matter are truly frightful. I have heard one preach after this fashion: that no man could speak one word du.ring 24 hours which had not some influence either favorable or unfavorable to religion; consequently man must give an account for every word he speaks whether it be idle or not. 
Thursday February 16, 1843. I cannot pretend to say how far men are responsible for their neighbors salvation; it may be more or less according to circumstances, but it would seem that, in a Christian land when every man has read his bible and heard sermons without number, the responsibility of a man's salvation lay very much at his own door. If one travels a road infested with robbers and he is warned a thousand times of his dangers by signboards and watch.men, must every fellow traveller whom he meets or overtakes be responsible for his safety unless he solemnly warns him of his hazard in travelling so dangerous a road? Most persons would undoubtedly speak of these dangers and go fully armed to meet the villains, or else would have ... 
Friday February 17, 1943. . .. their backs turned upon the infected district and thus show by their conduct that they fully believed the warnings of the watchmen and signboard. The truth lies here, I think: man's responsibility is the great engine for moving men to act upon any particular subject when entreaties and sermons fail. Make men believe that a great sin lies at their door unless they do so and so and you easily arouse them to act vigourously. If I as an abolitionist would arouse the indignation of the North against southern slavery, I must preach that Northern men are responsible for all the horrors of slavery, its continuance and beginning. If a holy indignation is to be excited against the horrors of intemperance, I must teach that every man who temperately drinks a glass of. .. 
Saturday February 18, 1843. ...wine for his stomach[[e]'s sake or does not sign the pledge is truly responsible for making drunkards; or if a revival of religion is desired in a dead church, one of the most efficient means is to throw a most tremendous responsibility upon the private members and teach that the blood of souls is upon their skirts. By what I have said, I do not pretend to intimate that we have no responsibilities; far from it, but that they are magnified one hundred fold. I consider responsibility too as quite distinct from duty with which it is often confounded, and for which it is often preached. 
Sunday February 19, 1843. From the tenor of Christ's and his Apostles' teachings I consider this high-toned doctrine as modern in its origin. I see but little grounds for it in their writings. Attended the preaching of Messrs Church A. M. and Backus P. M. The spirit seems still with the Bap. Ch. The house was well filled with attentive hearers altho' Mr. Kingsley was absent on account of sickness. He has not preached this week. His lungs have failed him. I know not how many converts have been made. 
Among the students may be reckoned Ralph W. Cole, Senior; William J. Blair, Junior; James R. Graham, Phelps, and others perhaps. Many seem not far from the kingdom of heaven; indeed there is far more feeling on religious matters among the young men than Christians were aware of. Prayer meetings are frequent and numerously attended. The Senior Chapel was crowded this morning 

at a meeting in which Dr. Potter took part. At the Presbyterian 
Church prayer meetings are to be held every night this week. In the 
Dutch Ref. Ch. religious services have been held the past week and 
are to be continued, so that looking over our city it seem that 
Christians are arousing themselves by God's spirit. 
Monday February 20, 1843. Some there be who really seem to have not enough brains to keep them out of the fire--always falling in to mishaps thro' inexcusable neglect. This preface will aptly apply to one Van Wagenen, member of Junior Class in College, to whom hangs the following tale. Last Thursday night about eleven o'clock just as I was undressing for bed I heard a faint distant cry of "fire". On going to the window, nothing was seen save a single light at one window in the North College. Returned to my occupation and presently heard another cry and the ringing of the College bells. The single faint light had now increased to a bright vivid glare of most terrific brightness, which now and then flashed up and disappeared as tho' in a close encounter with buckets of water thrown upon it. Pretty soon the window was dashed out and 2 or 3 flaming bodies hurled to the ground. Hurrying on my cloths, I ran up, arriving in time to see the young men depart for their abodes, having mastered the fire with great despatch. Poor Van ... 
Tuesday February 21, 1843 .... Wagenen! All his furniture, books and cloths were completely destroyed, adding another to the many accidents arising from reading in bed. Van positively says that he did blow his lamp out, which is to beá doubted, and that when he awoke [he] was enveloped in flames, nearly suffocating him. 
[Gap from February 21, 1843 to December 25, 1844] 

