 
1844. 
[Wednesday] December 25, 1844. I dont see why our puritanic forefathers should have relinquished the proper observance of our Saviours' birth day--Christmas; and indeed why Easter and perhaps some other greater fasts and feasts of the Catholic or English. I suppose they were really and truly "Come-Outers" and meant to have nothing to do with anything which Mother Ch. sanctioned unless they were obliged to by the plain Word of God. They reformed too much doubtless. 

Thursday December 26, 1844. Yesterday and this, like a mid-April day: some rain, no snow. Days are almost all alike to me. Life flows so smoothly--so few ups and downs--that a days history may be a pattern for all. To many so quiet a jogging life would be insufferable, to me not. Here Hane strikes up, "Mama! Mama"! and very haply broke up my sage and profound meditations, else doubtless I should have said something very pretty! 10 1/2 oclock at night, and Molly Snore (no, she wont own that she ever snores) snoozing fast. 
Friday December 27, 1844. In these days of anti-rent rebellion, peoples' ears are for news from the disaffected district, and the more so as our militia is ordered to be in readiness to march at short warning. Judge then what a ferment our goodly city was in last night on hearing the "Steam Whistle" on the road to Albany at an unusual hour. Some ran for knapsacks, some for guns, and all expected of course an Express for the Soldiers, but alas for the newsmongers, it went directly through with a single man in the coach without his stopping so long as even to enlighten the good people what his haste was all for. All sorts of rumors were then afloat. He must be on some "Anti-rent' business of course. "He's gone to see the Brigade-General," says one. "No, he's after more soldiers at Utica," says another, and not till this morning were men's minds settled when they learned that the express man was after a London robber who yesterday morning passed west. There's a robber got more than 3000 m[ile]s. off, and yet he's pursued--the pursuer just upon his heels, both going as fast as steam can carry them. Well, this is an age of improvement! 
Saturday December 28, 1844. The editor says, "We have passed thro another exciting presidential election &c." and Mr. Polk is to be our next President, a fact both mortifying and irritating to his opponents because a "new man" has triumphed over one of the most talented statesmen that the country ever afforded and, as they conceive, by unfair means. Mr. P[olk] advocated immediate annexation of Texas, and a low tariff--doctrines, as it was thought, that would ruin him at the North, when instead of showing his true opinions especially upon the latter subject his friends almost universally proclaimed him as good a tarif man as Mr. Clay; whereas at the South he was openly claimed as a free trade man. A victory lost on such grounds was exceedingly galling to the Whigs, and indeed in no former defeat (and it has come often enough) have I ever seen so much inward angry chafing. 

Sunday December 29, 1844. At the Baptist church Mr. Arthur preached--successor to Mr. Church some months since, a Scotchman from the North of Ireland of good abilities, some learning, much glibness of speach: goodnatured, fat, jolly and 40. The good people seem delighted with him, but pray who will succeed him after 2 years? 
Monday December 30, 1844. The Whigs in the late contest have not only complained of unfairness in the Loco-focos in presenting their leading political questions at the North and South, but also of the Abolitionists, who are now becoming stronger every year and who by their vote might have made an Anti-Texas President. Hence the Whigs accuse them of inconsistency. They opposed the annexation and yet by casting their votes for a third man, whom they knew they could not elect, they elected Mr. Polk. There again almost the whole body of naturalized Irishmen and Germans voted against Mr. Clay, which still more exasperated their opponents, that men who had been in the country but a few months or years and knew no more of the true interests of the country than cattle should turn the election wher[ein perhaps was at stake the prosperity of the U. S. for years to come. 
Tuesday December 31, 1844. However, the die is cast whether for good or evil, the election is past and we are now at rest again, but that a struggle is ahead and very near, the longest and soundest heads cannot deny. If the Union is not split on the great question of slavery, nothing but an Almighty power will save us from so unhappy a disaster. Says Dr. Nott, who by the by is a warm abolitionist, "the empt(y]ings are in the cask and it begins to work; we shall never have another slavery President. One party or the other will come over and take the Antislavery ground, here at the North, and then will begin the Tug of War." It seems to be his opinion now that the Locofocos will do so. Whether that be so, however, or not, remains to be seen. In Vermont, Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio, we see from the last election that the Abolitionists are strong enough already to turn the scale in a close contest. "Hence," says the Dr, "one party or the other will be obliged to select such a man for President as will command the votes of Abolitionists, or run the risk of losing the election. I hope it will be the Locofocos for they will rule, they must rule in this country, for although Whig doctrines are good, no matter--they cant carry an election, only once in a great while; they are bad polititians." That this is true, our history for the last 20 years proves. It matters little what are Locofoco doctrines, they are sure to win. "Hence," says the Doctor, "I am sorry the Whigs are for tariff, distribution of the public land, and opposed to the annexation, for if they were opposed to these the Loco-focos would most certainly be in favour of them. "Whatever one party favours, the other invariably opposes." 
