
Wednesday January 1, 1845. A perferct April-day, no snow, indeed we have had none for a month. The last of Nov. there fell 6 in. which made us sleighing for a few days; since then we have none to speak of. I sallied forth without an overcoat to make the customary "calls", and visited as follows: Prof. Jackson. Prof. Reed. Dr. Nott. Dr. Potter. Dr. Yates. Mr. Fisk. Dr Proudfit. Mr. Thompson. Mr. Robert Cunningham. Mr. Andrew McPherson. Mrs. [ditto]. Mr. Van Ingen. Mrs. Walters. Mr. Cobb. Doct. Wm. N. Duane. Mrs. Holland. Dr Van Vechten. Dr. Craig. Judge Tomlinson. [Dr.] Jones. Mrs. Boyd. Maj. Martin. Mr. Platt Potter. Mrs. Mumford. Mr. AC. Paige. Mr. Cochran. Mrs. Fuller. Mr. William Walton. Mr. A. C. Gibson. Misses Graham. Judge Linn. Mr. Lyman. Mr. Carley. Mr. Grant. Mr. Howe. Doct. A. Vedder. Mrs. Bazeley. Mr. McCamus. Mr. Gilbert. Doct. Dulap. Mr Harvey Davis. Rev. T. Backus. Mrs. Kelley. Mr. Van Igen. Mr. Beckley. ---a list that ke[pt] me "trotting" till near sundown. It would seem that this old and honored custom is rather declining of late, which is much to be regretted. 
Thursday January 2, 1845. At the Library all day opening, labelling and putting up a new lot of books. The whole town was again set by the ears yesterday with news from Albany for two companies of men to hold themselves in readiness to march for Hudson forthwith, but after putting themselves into a great sweat all day, they finally went home to bed and thus the war ended. How strangely deep-rooted is this love of war-parade among men! --not less with those calling themselves Christians than with the rudest and [most] untamed savage. 
Friday January 3, 1845. Christians have much to learn yet of the Spirit [of] Christ and more to practice before this world will reach that blessed state so often foretold by the Prophets, when the lion and the lamb shall lie down together. It is true doubtless that the rulers of the enlightened nations have learned much wisdom from the past; they see more clearly the evils of war and are more wary of settling differences by an appeal to arms, yet a vast majority of the ruled, the common people, are as excitable and as eager for war on slight occasions as ever --the very persons, too, the soonest and the most to suffer by it. Such is the strange infatuation of short-sighted men. And what is ... 

Saturday January 4, 1845 .... the cause of these much talked of wars among nations? Honor ! National Honor ! We must fight to preserve our National Honor! and this National Honor is in most cases nothing better than that Honor which is so much talked of among Duelists, to maintain which they shoot at each other--not a whit better. Or it ls very much like those little bloodless or rather bloody-nosed duels amongst boys --I mean for justice or pretence when one fights another for striking a chip from his shoulder. "If Britain toutches Cuba, we'll have war with her; if she meddles with Texas, we'll meddle with her," say the war-party and that's a pretty large party too. Why? How much so ever we dislike to have John Bull a near neighbor, why should we go to war with him until at least he actually treads heavily on our toes? If a man I dislike buys a farm adjoining mine, shall I fight him off when [he] does not meddle with mine? And so again if Mexico makes war upon Texas, her revolted province, forsooth we must threaten her war in return. Miserable pretences for bloodshed! which men are not enough enlightened yet to dread and fear. 
Sunday January 5, 1845. The power of Church meet[ing] music is much lessened doubtless since the old practice of congregational singing was given up. What we have gained in variety and correctness we have lost in heartiness and devotion. Scarcely one in 10 of the Congregation now sings, and we almost as much now look to the choir for music as we do to the pastor for a sermon. And indeed, if the Congregation would join in the singing, how can they, since almost every Sabbath a new set of tunes is sung. In this city 1O or 12 years since, congregational singing was practised in the Methodist, Dutch and Presbyterian Churches. Now it is altogether done away and forgotten and scarcely a voice is heard in our churches save from the choir and the pulpit. 
Monday January 6, 1845. Mr. Audubon, the naturalist, is a remarkable instance of what enthusiastic perseverance will do. He has spent a life in studying the birds of America and has erected a *******monument to his memory in his great work. I am told that withal he is a most pleasant man and companion. His time is now de.voted to the beasts of Am[erica]. Both of his great works we have the good fortune of obtaining for the Coll. Lib. thro' the liberality of Dr. Nott, 'tis said. 

Tuesday January 7, 1845. A most lamentable affair for the Church is now under consideration by a board of Bishops in New York. It is no less than the trial of Bp. Onderdonk for immoral conduct towards certain respectable women for some years gone-by. And what is still more sad is that his bro. Bp. in Philadelphia has Just this summer been deposed for drunkeness. Little sympathy do either of these distinguished men receive from other ch[urche]s or from a large portion of their own. Specially the former, who on account of [the] Casey ordination and some Puseyite movements, as 'tis supposed .... (Here I got to sleep and went to -or rather went to bed and got to sleep.) 
Wednesday January 8, 1845. Our good "Domine," Mr. Arthur, has this day a "Donation party" from his Ch. and congregation. "Tis humilia.ting," says one, "that a minister cannot be supported without these contrivances to raise the wind.' Perhaps it is--perhaps not. In one sense it is humiliating, nay shameful, that is, if in no other way a ch. can or will support their pastor; but taken in another view it is pleasant, when each one as God has prospered him, bestows of his good things upon this servant that he in turn may minister of his spiritual things to the people. 
Thursday January 9, 1845. But things are strangely out of joint in these times; perhaps they always were, both in Ch. and Society. Why do Chs. find so much fault with their pastors? Why are pastors always on the wing? Chs and Bishops are never wedded apparently; after a mutual trial of each other they do not take each other for life for better or for worse, but til one or other party gets tired and then the tie is severed. This certainly was not so antiently. It is a modern invention: ruinous, unchristian and selfish ... 
Friday January 10, 1845. . .. and if it is one of the necessary fruits of the voluntary system, as some imagine, it is certainly a very serious objection to it. And indeed, although I am not prepared to adopt or favour the state system of religion, I think it is by no means a question with but one side to it as we in this country sometimes think. As we pretty generally admit that religion is necessary to the permanency and happiness of a free state --as necessary, nay more so, than education--sure is it not as much the duty of a citizen to support religion with his property as the district school? Let his small tax go to that sect which he chooses, and is it not his duty to pay to some Ch? I do not say it is and yet there are weighty reasons in favour of it. 

Saturday January 11, 1845. Term commenced yesterday. Last night came off a great party at Dr. Reeds at which nearly the whole town was assembled, old and young. What the backs of the young Misses of our day will arrive to is certainly a serious question; they protrude already more than a camels rump and increase daily. A full-dressed Miss nowadays juts out behind more than a foot. Her waist may be as large as a qt. mug, her hips and apperrtenances from the size of a barrel to that of a good fat hogshead; but thanks to the fashion all this rotundity is not solid ma[t]ter else they never could enter a door or sit upon a chair. Its nothing but down feathers, hair, cotton, wool, or in some cases wind--the latter a most admirable contrivance for life preservers only it might bouy the wrong end up in the water. But after all it is consoling to think that we are no worse in this respect than our great-great-grandmothers with their hoop petticoats and towers upon their h~ads. 
Sunday January 12, 1845. Heard Mr. Backus in A. M., Mr. Arthur in 
P. M. Paul taught to Christians of old that they should owe no man; if this precept now apply to individuals, does it not also to Churches as a body? Yet it is lamentable .to see the difficulties and em.barrasments that they encounter all over the country from debts upon their houses of worship. I do believe it is all wrong, injurious to the advancement of religion, conforming the ch. to the fashions of the world. 
Monday January 13, 1845. It is encouraging to note the change that has taken place in our literary institutions in the manners and morals of young men within the last 20 years. This is in part owing to the temperance reform and somewhat perhaps to the more universal spread of education among the people and a consequent enlightened public opinion and more polished manners. 
Tuesday January 14, 1845. At the commencement of the present session of Congress that rule called the "gag-law" forbid[d]ing the re.ception of petitions from Abolitionists or for the abolition of slavery was repealed and much to the surprize of many knowing that the present party in power had made the rule. Dr. Nott attributes this result to the growing fear among politicians of the power of the Abolitionists. "It was all owing to the abolition vote of this State," 
t0b4.
says he. "They must conciliate the Abol[itionists]. The one party or 
the other must come over to the Abol. and I now think 'twill be the 
Democrats. I sincerely hope it will." 
However slavery is done away, it can hardly come to pass very soon in this country without a tremendous struggle, or rather may we not predict that sooner than give up the slave, the South will break the Union? Indeed I suppose .. . 
Wednesday January 15, 1845 .... most Abol. and many other Northeners are of that opinion and care little if it shall be so. Not long since, in talking with Dr. N., I said, "What can Abol. do, supposing they could carry a majority of [the] Mem[bers of]Cong[ress?" Dr. N. "Cong. can abolish slavery from the District of Columbia. It can stop the slave trade between States, and it can refuse to receive any more new States wherein slavery exists." I. "But if Cong. should do all this,.the South would at once rebel and withdraw." Dr. Nott. "Let them, then, we can do without them. I expect the South will withdraw." 
Thursday January 16, 1845. Both before election and since, the Dr. has said that Texas would be annexed. "I am not sure," said he, "that the people at the North are opposed to the annexation. I rather think they are in favour of it. But I cannot see how it will benefit the South whilst it certainly would the North in their manufactures and commerce, and I am not sure whether it would be a hinderment to abolition or not." 
Friday January 17, 1845. His opinion of Calhoun is that he is a great and honest politician. "But," says he, "he is making himself a great fool in the eyes of the whole civilized world; he ls ruining his prospects of future greatness--all on account of his insane exertions to uphold and perpetuate slavery." And indeed, it is now too late in the day to extenuate the sin of slavery. The darkness of other ages might have permitted it, but the light of this will not. 
Saturday January 18, 1845. If there ls any one thing which will work the ruin of our government and lead to disunion and anarchy, it would seem to be a want of what is called Conservatism, I mean next after the great question of Slavery. Radicalism under the guise of Democracy has made rapid strides towards power of late years: when it will stop one hardly can tell. 
It is not necessary to go far for illustrations of this fact. Among others may be mentioned the notable rebellion of Dorr in Rhode Island. The mere fact of a rebellion is not so very alarming, for that 
tOb~ 
might happen under any government, but he was held in countenance and his principles lauded by a very large portion of those who call themselves Democrats par exellence. Starting with the notion that a majority, no matter whether of lawful voters or not, have at any time the right of changing their government by force if necessary, even when there exists a legal mode of doing it, he came nigh (had not his courage failed or that of his followers) throwing the whole state into war and bloodshed. And now when taken, tried, and imprisioned, nearly the whole Dem. party sympathize with him and croak about Al****** cruelty. They could see no wrong in seeing him point his guns at his fellow citizens and attempt to shoot them down, but forsooth when he receives the lightest punishment that his crimes deserve, language fails to utter black enough epithets for the friends of law and order in Rhode Island. I hope my for[e]bodings are not true but surely it argues something wrong in the feelings and views of the people when they can uphold and abet such outrageous proceedings. 
Sunday January 19, 1845. A cold day. For a few days since, we have had just enough snow for sleighing. Almost the first this winter. On the whole we have a very remarkable winter. The thermometer has been below zero, but very few times, the weather has been remark ably mild, the ground bare nearly the whole season and considerable rain. 
Mr. Arthur preached a short sermon. P. M. Read Neal's His. of the Puritans. Exceedingly interesting. I read it with the same interest as at first, and yet I cannot but inquire, is all this true? I know no reason why it should not be except that at this day one cannot see how a large body of honest and well-disposed people should have suffered so long without relief and toleration. However we cannot compare the 16th and 17th cent[urie]s with this, unless we keep in view the fact that no people then believed in free conscientious worship of God. There must be uniformity and they only disagreed in how far this should be carried. 
Monday January 20, 1845. Speaking of Dorr's rebellion on Sat: I see that (by the papers) the Legislature of R. I. has liberated him on condition of his taking the oath of Al[l]egiance to the laws and government of the State, and yet many of his friends now advise him not to do it! Another unpromising symptom for our government is the open, shameless refusal of States to pay their debts or even to try to do so--hundreds of thousands--the majority of whole states refuse to satisfy their lawful debts, and are at the same justified by many of their Democratic bretheren through[ou]t the Union. Whole counties have refused to pay their taxes, and thousands of tenants in this state, their rents; and not only so but have organised bands of armed, disguised men to oppose the execution of the laws by force. Notwithstanding they have many sympathisers and not till some men were killed could the spirit of the Executive be aroused to uphold the supremacy of law and order. 

Tuesday January 21, 1845. "There is but one step from the sublime to the ridiculous," some one has said, and with equal truth it may be asserted that there is but one step from true Democratic liberty to lawlessness and licentiousness. This government requires widespread education and virtues, else it falls. It is doubted by many whether we meet this requirement. We increase largely in popu.lation, wealth and independence, yet there are causes in some states why virtue and intelligence may be supposed to falter. 
Wednesday January 22, 1845. I sometimes imagine that the Am. people have undergone a great change of late years and many of them for the worse 
Gap from January 22 to one undated entry in March, then to April 1, 1845] 
March [?] 1845. The great event in the religious world of late has been Bp. Onderdonks trial at N. Y. for impure conduct towards certain 
[women?] and his suspension from his office. The noise consequent upon this affair has now ceased and the pamphleteers and anti.pamphteers have ceased their war. Upon a calm review of the whole case, I do not see how an unprejudiced mind can come to any other conclusion than that of a majority of the Bench of Bps. Reports, I know, frequently lie, but if one half of them--yea 1/10 of them--are true we must conclude that the worst of his case has not come to light. Said a Senator now in Albany from the West to Mr. J. N., "Some time since, the Bp. came to my house in C. In the hall my neice re.ceived him, and to such a degree did he maltreat her that her dress was almost torn off her back before she could get out of his hands." This may be a lie, too. I hope it is, yet it seems strange that his own flock should slander him without cause: where there is so much smoke, there must be some fire. 
It is a thing much to be desired that some Schenectadian would "endeavour" the History of this old town, which has now been 

I 
inhabited these more than 200 ys. Our Antients are passing away fast, family records and traditions are also becoming scarce, and if the materials for such a work are not soon gathered the beginnings of "Dorp" will be forgotten and unsung. I have long had it upon my mind to attempt the collection of some passages from old records and other relicts that would illustrate the habits of our easy old Dutchmen in former years and rescue from oblivion the origin of the city. I hope to do this if my life is spared unless some more competent person attempts the same. 
[Sunday] Ap[ril] 1, 1845. There are some books that will bear reading twice --not many --among which I will mention Cotton Mather's "Magnalia": quaint, punning, anagrammatic. Latin-quoting Cotton Mather! who would not spoil a conceit if he were forced thereby to stretch the truth a trifle. A precious book this of his to a New Englander, a treasury of rich facts on the first beginnings of New England plantations and colonies, and especially as it regards her churches and ministers. 
[Monday] Ap[ril] 2, 1845. By the bye, I am inclined to believe that no people of the same age ever sought so carefully for records of their past history or so charyly treasured them up or so elaborately chronicled their father's deeds as these same N. Englanders. One would ask, "What can the Historian find in the Annals of a little county town to fill a big octavo volume?" Yet many is the town in N. 
E. that has had her Historian and many an entertaining vol. has been written thereby. They even attempt their gene[a]logies. 
[Gap from April 2 to April 15, 1845] 
[Tuesday] April] 15, 1845. As if disasters never come single, so soon after the awful wreck of the "Swallow" at Hudson, we this morning hear of one of the most destructive fires that ever happened in this country by which a large portion of that busy city, Pittsburgh, is laid in ashes. Newspapers say that from 1000 to 1200 houses and stores are burned and property lost to the value of 1O millions! 
Oh rare Charles Lamb! witty, fertile, original Charles Lamb! Altho' I do not admire his--and indeed but few persons [do] -.poetry, yet nothing can be finer than his Essays, nothing richer, juicier, more readable. How delightful too are his letters, so pressed down and running over with wit and humor! When shall we see his like again? 
/Ob&
I. 
In Union College are taught Latin and Greek, so-soish. I beg pardon of my Alma Mater if I slander her; perhaps I am mistaken. But our Antient Prof. of L. and G. likes no new things either in morals or religion or politics. His ways are stereotyped and I like him the better for it; it becomes age and gravity. He teaches as they did SO yrs. ago and if he does not inspire his pupils with the poetic rapture and classic enthusiasm, he teaches well. He doesn't teach them to write or speak Latin or to attempt the absurdity of writing Greek hexameters. They recite their lessons --translating, parsing --and retire. But whatever our reputation for Classic learning, I doubt not we have enough to do with it. Too much is nowadays made of it, .. 
[Wednesday] Ap[ril] 16, 1845. Lat. and Grk. are made the foundation, structure and pinnacle of collegiate education. The boy not unfrequently begins to study them at 8 or 10 yrs and does little else for 10 or 12 yrs, neglecting his own language and literature, his Math, Nat. His., Phil. and what not. What then is all this for? Is there forsooth nothing else to discipline our minds with? Is there no fine writing but the Grk. and Roman? Are there [no] poets but Homer and Virgil? No His[torians] but Herodotus, Thucidydes, Tacitus and Livy? What shall I say more! Are modern minds and works one whit less rich and fertile than the Antient? 
[Thursday] April 17, 1845.1 would have every educated man study somewhat of Latin. It is necessary in all the professions and therefore indispensable. Greek and Hebrew is only necessary for a learned minister. At the revival of learning, all learning was hid in Lat. and Grk. and of course a knowledge of these was indespensable.--the only key to the little Science then in existence. Things have changed. The Physical Sciences are renovated, extended, perfected and are no longer locked up in an unspoken language. 
Holding such sentiments, if my Alma Mater does not stand preeminent in Class[ical] learning, the charge does not cause me any uneasiness. Our venerable Prof. teaches enough of it and for enough and if he does not make as much of it as many others, I rejoice at it. But altho' he is the Prof. of this dep[artment] several others help him. Prof. Reed occasionally teaches a class in Terence and Plautus comedies, or some Tragedies of Sophocles or Euripides or the Odes of Horace. Prof. Potter, too, occasionally hears a class in Juvenal Satires; Dr. Yates, a class in Tacitus; and Tutors Brown and Kelley, certain recitations of the Freshman and Sophomore classes in the same languages. 

[Friday] April 18, 1845. One great obstacle in the way of teaching the 
beauties of the Grk. and Rom. Classics in College is the ignorance of 
our students. When they come here, it is supposed they understand 
perfectly the grammatic structure of these languages, which is not 
the case one time in 10. Hence our Profs. have to turn pedagogues 
and teach them their "Hie, haec, hoc"--indeed the Lat. and Grk. 
grammar have to be taught to the Freshmen for some time after they 
enter. 
Why not then reject all such applicants and send them back to 
their High Schools to prepare themselves for College? Then we might 
turn all out and shut our doors: and in fine most of our Principals of 
Academies by this rule would be obliged to quit their pedagogical 
pursuits. "What then is your rule of admission"? We indeed have 
good rules enough, but live up to them strictly. we cannot. 
We whip around the stump thus. If a young man is nearly pre~ 
pared for the class to which he applies, we permit him to enter the 
class and enjoy all of its priveleges, but we say to him that he is not 
matriculated yet and will not be until he has made up his 
deficiencies, then he will be a member in full standing in his class. 
But if he studies on in his class and neglects to pass a farther 
examination in his preparatory studies, at the close of his course he 
receives no diploma with his classmates, in other words does not 
graduate. 
Many objections of course might be urged to all this proceed.ure. If a non-matriculated student has studied well and been exemplary in his conduct, the Examining Committee is apt to let him slide thro' the examination for [all] his deficiencies with undue preparation. And again a young man badly prepared for College cannot (however well he may be disposed) pursue his College course to good advantage. Who form the Examining Committee? By a late vote of the Trustees, any three of the faculty convened together may form such a Committee, and his candidate's certificate of acceptance must be signed by all three. This law was made because some of the faculty were disposed to be too lenient in their examinations and it was supposed that some one or two of the Committee would be sufficiently strict and therefore impose their authority on the rest. 
John C. Spencer was the proposer of this rule when he was on the Board, acting from a hint given by some one of the faculty, as I suppose. 
[Saturday] Ap[ril] 19, 1845. The residences and professions of most of my classmates I know, but no one of them more excites my admiration and respect than Samuel B. Willis of Cattskill, where he 
JOJo 
has been pastor of the Baptist Ch. for many years. To one well acquainted with him, whom I have lately seen, he said that his salary was but 300$, that he owed no man anything and contrived to live as well upon that slender pittance as most men upon double or treble that amount. For 1 1/2 years he had a sick wife, unable to rise from her bed; he attended her sedulously, fulfilled all his duties to the church, met all all his appointments and yet had no one in his house to assist him. An humble, patient, persevering pastor like this, unheard of, unsung, more awakens my reverence than 1 0 well-paid, eloquent, famous preachers. What trials and temptations he has to encounter without the encouragement of friends, what self-denials without their sympathy, what labours and watchings without their cooperation, only heaven can know. 
Speaking of small salaries: Dr. Nott said to me the other day, "It doesnt matter whether a man has a large or small salary. When I began to preach in Albany I had but 800$ or a trifle over, and I supported my family as well as I do now, entertained many visitors and at the end of 6 years had a sum of 3000$. With my present sala ry (2500$ besides income from stove-patent[s], say 2000$ more) I dont live any better than I did, so that I am finally of the opinion that it doesnt make any odds what a man's salary is." 
In a conversation upon politics the Dr. said, "I am very singular in my opinions about politics. I am a "Locofoco" and yet I never read a Democratic newspaper. I never take up the 'Argus' without getting mad with the fellow for his nonsense. I get all my political reading from a Whig paper. I read one way and 'believe the contrary.' " 
His opinion of Drs. Fuller's and Wayland's controversy was that they were both "arguing on false grounds"; "instead of talking about every other kind of slavery, or slavery in the abstract, they should come to this simple question: Is this thing of slavery which we have at the South, right? That's the question. God tolerated slavery among the Jews, yet that doesnt make American slavery right; or, admit that [H]e gave the Tews the privelege to enslave the Canaanites, yet we have no right from that to enslave the Africans. This talking about slavery in the abstract is useless. I dont believe slavery is a sin in the abstract, yet I do believe that American slavery is a most grievous and odious sin." 
[Sunday] Ap[ril] 20, 1845. The recent deaths of two of our late graduates I heard of today, yet in what different ways! John M. Long, of class '39 was killed in a duel! Cyrus Smith of class 1841 died two months since of consumption at his fathers, in the triumphs of faith! Smith left Schenectady about the time of his graduation for 
101I 
Murfreesboro, Tennessee (at my suggestion) to assist Mr. Farnsworth in teaching in an Institution which he has been attempting to found there for the benefit of the Baptists of that state. After teaching and preaching since that time, he has now gone home to obtain his reward. 
Monday Ap[ril] 21, 1845. Since I have made one of the Faculty of Un. Coll. we have usually held but 2 meetings a term, viz., one on the first day to arrange and distribute the recitations and a second at the close to discuss the d[e]linquencies of the students both in scholarship and conduct, such being usually reproved by the President by calling them to his study privately. At these meetings Dr. Nott is often absent when Dr. Potter takes [the] lead (for we have no chairman chosen by the meeting, the Pres. or else the Vice Pres. being entitled to that office). They are far from being formal. We scarcely ever take any vote upon any question, but if a measure seems to be generally approved of or disapproved the case is settled. Dr. Nott' s opinion, of course, is usually assented to by all, respecting any measure. 
We ought to have a meeting at least once a month, but it is thought that the Pres. does not like these meetings, having an opinion that he can guide the helm better alone than with the interference of the Fae., which opinion is probably right if there was any danger of his being interupted in his government. At Commencement the Fae. meet to recommend whom they see fit of the Sen. Class to the Board of Trustees for degrees of A. B. 
[Monday] April 21, 1845. Vacation work is harder than term work-.for example, making garden, paving cellar, fagging for a mason who builds me a fireplace, painting oil-cloths, shelves, doors, setting glass, whitewashing, "pointing" walls, pruning shrubery, transplanting &c. Such has been my every-day work from morning till night, my object being to complete a cellar, kitchen &c. before May 1st that I may then commence housekeeping, having hitherto since marriage boarded with father. 
Tuesday April 22, 1845. By the bye, this housekeeping in small families is a most expensive and troublesome way of living, inasmuch as for a small fam[ily] of 3 or 4 persons, one needs nearly all the cooking apparatus and must take all the trouble of supply-.buying and providing that is requisite for a larger family. A poor housekeeper's day is consumed in running to market after groceries, meat and vegitables, booking up servants, quarreling with others, seeing that they dont steal your tea, sugar, and linen, spoons or knives, and what not. No private person ought (if he were not obliged to do so from mere necessity) to establish a cookshop upon his own footing unless he be so rich as to relieve himself from the care of it. With equal propriety might he have his own clothes-making establishment and make his families boot, hats, coats and gowns. 

I consider a part of Fourier's plan of association to be the true plan of social life. All families must lodge seperately either in seperate rooms or houses and eat at a common or private table as they choose but food in all cases to be furnished from one cooking shop. To be pestered with all the affairs from kitchen to garret and the cares of a profession or trade besides is more than human nature ought to bear. 
Wednesday April 23, 1845. Being at Doctor Nott's this evening, he got upon the subject of Medicine. "It is my candid opinion," says he, "that on the whole doctors do more hurt than good, that they kill more folks than they cure by bleeding and drugging. Lewes ( I think he said), the Frenchman, greatest Physician in the [world?] got at last to have no faith in his own practice; he made a set of experiments upon a great number of folks, treating some all[o]pathicaly, some hom[eo]pathically and others without medicine, with simple nursing and found that more of the latter class lived than of the 2 others. But of all the Doctors I rather think the homoepathists are most successful; they cure most people. I dont know much about cold.water doctors tho' doubtless they cure some obstinate diseases. Steam doctors, I know, sometimes kill and sometimes cure like others. At the time the cholera was in Albany, a Thompsonian doctor cured 2 of the first cases that occured there with some [of] his hot stuff ,so that he got a great run, but almost all his other patients died. Abstinence, I have almost always found to be the best cure for me when I am sick." 
Thursday Ap[ril] 24, 1845. Speaking about novels, not long since Dr. Nott asked one of the company if she ever read "The Mysteries of Paris," and then remarked that he never read novels but that he had come across that book accidentally and read it. "I dont see," said he, "what folks make such a fuss about that book for. I consider it a masterly production and with some few exceptions perhaps its influence is decidedly good." 
Friday Ap[ril] 25, 1845. Term began today. Examined for Junior Class, Alger of New Lebanon, and Daniel Hall for Sen. Class. Faculty 
/073 
meeting at Doct. Potter's study at 7 o'clock P.M. Present: Doctors Nott, Proudfit, Potter, Yates, Profs. Jackson, Foster. Tutors Brown Kelley, Pomeroy and self. The various classes and studies were assigned to the different members of the Faculty after which a convers[at]ion arose about the method of teaching in some of our public schools. Dr. Potter said, "We must look about us, for really I have some schools in Syracuse where they teach some things better than we do. I saw some maps of the country [county? countryside?] of Onondaga and the towns therein most admirably done by the children of the public schools with beautiful drawings of fossils illus.trating the leading specimens found in the rocks there." 
Saturday April 26, 1845. After the above conversation about schools, we got upon an Anti-rent discussion, in which Dr. Nott led. His [statement] was that "in the beginning the Van-Renssalaer's were unreasonable; now they are right and the tenants are wrong, for when proper proposals are made to them they will not accept of them. I dont think the Van R's at first had a good title to this im.mense domain altho' now by long pos~ession and legislative enact.ment they have a legal tit[t]le to it. Its hard to tell what will be the end of this business for Anti-rentism. Instead of dying away, [it] is deepening and widening both. Political parties are afraid of it. The Whigs are endeavouring with it to break down Gov. Wright; they are now worse 'Locofocos' than the Democrats are. I was written to by one of the parties (the agent of the Van Rs) to try to effect a reconciliation and I went down to Albany twice, but it didnt amount to much." 
Sunday Ap[ril] 27, 1845. Rained at noon. Heard Mr Backus preach a sermon on the importance of good church music. 
Monday Ap[ril] 28, 1845. In Un. Coll. we experience some inconvenience from being obliged to teach various departments of Science by the same Prof. or tutor. Some teach both Math. and Lat. and Greek; in fact we are "Jacks at all trades." Our Prof. of Math., Mr. Jackson, certainly has a fine Math. head and taste; he is not much of a book-maker, his only production being a neat little book on the "Conic Sections." He has also partly finished an elementary work on Optics. We teach Math. cheifly by the use of the blackboard in the recitation room, Geometrical Prop[osition]s being demonstrated from diagrams drawn by the student and prob[lem]s solved in the same way. The previous lesson at least is always reviewed. Our applications of the Math. are Mechanics, i.e., Statics, Dynamics &c., 
1074.
Optics, Astronomy, Surveying, Geodosy &c. I believe that on the 
whole Math. is very well taught at our Coll. 
Tuesday April 29, 1845. Prof. J. teaches Calculus, Astronomy, 
Analytic Geom. and Geom, Trigonometry, Optics, and Boucharlots 
Mechanique. Prof. Foster teaches Mechanics, Algebra, Topography, 
Surveying, and sometimes Geom. Tutor Brown sometimes Geom. and 
Trigonometry; I, Conic Sections. This I believe makes up our whole 
Math. force, Nat. Phil. of course included. 
Wednesday April 30, 1845. Nat. His. has been hitherto lamentably neglected in our Colleges and of course in this. It is still imperfectly taught here; Mineralogy, little or none; Geology, somewhat, by Hitchcocks elementary book; Botany, much better by lectures, &c~ and I feel proud that some promising young botanists have had a taste for that enchanting science awakened here. About the year 1837 or '38, just after I came to the Coll. as a tutor, I was asked to take the charge of a class of Seniors in Botany--never having received any instruction in the science nor knowing 10 plants by their bot[anical] names. Reluctantly, of course, I undertook to teach Bot. and imperfectly I performed my task, no doubt, but in my first class was my friend Edward Tuckerman Esq. of Boston who is a very promising Botanist now, having made large collections in Europe and U.S. 
Thursday May 1, 1845. Chemistry is taught now during the 2nd (Winter) term, Junior. A textbook is used and familiar lectures with demonstrations by experiments. Prof. Averill formerly, up to the summer of '35, lectured upon this subject (the 3d summer term, Senior.) Mr. Savage, after his death, taught it as now by a textbook. When I was obliged to take this department, I had not as yet witnessed a single course of lectures nor received any instruction. One may therefore judge my fitness for such a station. 
Friday May 2, 1845. One thing only was in my favour. I have some taste and talent for constructing and fashioning machines and apparatus which enabled me the sooner to become familiar with the manipulations of Chem. demonstrations. 
As an example of the diverse callings to which we are obliged to submit ourselves in our College I may say that I have myself taught Arithmetic, Algebra, Geom., Trig., Mechanics., Nat. Theology, Hydrostatics and Pneumatics, Chemistry, Conic Sections, Botany and Geology --variety enough, in all conscience, to suit the most 

unsatisfied. 
Saturday May 3, 1845. Of all the studies in which I have been engaged Bot. and Chem. are most to my taste, the former especially inasmuch as it is both healthy and agreeable. Chem. has but one draw-back for me, which has often tempted me to throw it up altogether; I mean it[s] danger to health. I doubt not that Profs. Savage and Averill both were permanently injured by it. I have feared the same for myself notwithstanding my utmost care. 
Sunday May 4, 1845. Heard Mr. Fuller, agent of the Bapt. Home Miss. Soc. this A. M. at the Bapt. Ch., Mr. Arthur being absent; and an exellent sermon he preached --pointed, fervent, animated and earnest. 
Monday May 5, 1845. Savage, of whom I alluded to as Prof. of Chem., was a man of fine taste, industry; and a cultivated mind, but better calculated to teach some other branch because, as I think, he wanted a Mechanical Genius and taste. He was not so careful and cautious in his experiments as one ought to be; hence he not only exposed his health at times but burnt his fingers and spoiled his clothes often. 
Tuesday May 6, 1845. In a conversation with Dr. Nott the other evening on various matters: "Two things," says he, "in this age of light and universal intelligence are incomprehensible to me; the one is that any man can believe the Roman Catholic Religion and the other is that any man can defend and uphold slavery. Now I can readily see how both these errors should prevail before men were enlightened on these subjects, but now it is a mystery. I once was so benighted on the subject of slavery as to own a slave. I bought one of one Van Eps out here on the Mohawk flats when I preached in Albany, and didnt think there was any harm in it, of course." 
Wednesday May 7, 1845. The Doct. has often talked too about Sir Richard Vivian's, "Vestiges of Creation," which, says he, "is a "curious book and hardly consist[e]nt with revelation, facts, and good reason. He cant get rid of a Great First Cause, however, for if he makes all animated creatures the offspring of a monad, a particle of matter endowed with life, still that monad must have had a Creator, and it is just as difficult and no more so perhaps to make a living particle as a living animal. Admitting his reasoning to be true, his premis[es], I 
/07b 
think, are sometimes wrong. Some of his scientific facts are at least 
doubtful, to say the least." 
Thursday May 8, 1845. We have a new teacher this term in the person of Mr. William M. Gillespie of New York. He is a grad. of Columbia College, by prof[ession] an Engineer, at which he has laboured some 8 to 10 years, travelled 1 yr. in Europe, written a book, "Rome as seen by a New Yorker," and has now settled down at Union for the present to lecture on Engineering, Geodesy, Surveying and teach the applications of Math. generally to the Arts. The object is an exellent one for our Coll. whether he succeed in his endeavours or not. He is a young [man], however, of fine talents and industry, I think. He is the son of a wealthy man in N. Y. and 30 yrs. of age. 
Friday May 9, 1845. A great Convention of Methodist Dominies in 
town at the Meeting of the Troy Conference. Dr. Nott has presented 
to Un. Coll. Lib. a sett of Audubon's great folio plates of birds, price 
$1000. And a sett of plates of the beasts of N. America, price 300$. 
[Undated note] The above paragraph is a mistake. These books 
were paid for by College. 
Saturday May 10, 1845. Mr. Gillespie, our new teacher of Engineering and myself, started this morning for the Helderberg at Knowerville, arrived at Keenholt's tavern a mile beyond K. about 10 oclock. Ordered dinner at [11?] 1/2o'clock and started for the top of the mountain. Arrived on "Prospect Rock" at 1 oclock, finding abundance of Dicentraperdict (2 species), "squirrel's corn" and "Dutchman's breeches" --so--they are commonly called; also Leon.tice or "Caposh," "Spring beauty" or Claytonia Virginiana &c. It is strange and a pity that a spot blessed by so many attractions should draw so few visitors. I can almost say that I never saw so fine a prospect as that presented from "Prospect Hill." Dined and got home at 6. 
[Gap from May 10 to July 10, 1845] 
[Thursday] July 10, 1845. We are now drawing nigh to the close of another term with about the usual amount of study, laziness, hot weather and roguery. No serious sickness has visited College. The young men have generally behaved with propriety. The most disgraceful departure from good conduct has been in the case of young Averill from Troy, a member of the Junior Class, who the 
1017 
latter part of May or first of June left College with 2 other young men without permission and attended a horse race at Bull'shead, Albany. There he was grossly insulted, 'tis said, by a drunken fellow and even beaten, [in] return for which Averil fired a pistol at him, which took effect in his opponent's arm. There the fracas ended for that day. However much A's conduct may be excused by the circumstances, two things are certain: he had no business to leave Coll. and attend a horse race, much less had he a right to carry deadly weapons (a six-barrel pistol all loaded) to such a place. These considerations nearly determined Dr. Nott to send the young men from College immediately but, by the intercession of their worthy and highly respectable parents, he finally permitted them again to come back to Coll. on probation. fining each 10$. 
[Friday] July 11, 1845. Drinking, I think, is rare now in College although I have known the time when it was not uncommon to get drunk. The only instance that has come to my ears is that of a young man from Guat[e]mala, Central America, named Rodas. He has been here a year and hitherto borne a most exellent character for sobriety, scholarship and gentlemanly deportment. Lately he has heard bad news concerning the political state of his own country and become de-pressed in spirits; finally he carried some wine to his room and drank to excess till he became almost crazy. Thinking that travel and change of scene might benefit him, Dr. Nott sent him off to Niagara Falls. 
[Saturday] July 12, 1845 The great and much talked of event of the past term has been the appointment of Dr. Potter to the Bishoprick of the Episcopal Ch. in Pennsylvania and his acceptance, a resolution which has surprised many of his friends who had thought he would never leave Un. Coll. but be its next President. That he would choose still to remain at Un. Coll. I think there is no doubt, but there have been brought to bear upon him some influences which a man like him, loving his Church and its welfare, could not well resist. 
The Epis. Ch. in Penns., as in many other parts, is divided into 2 parties, the High and Low Ch. parties, but there they are so nearly balanced that after frequent ballotings they could agree upon no man for their Bishop but Dr. P. The Committee sent to notify him of his election appealed to his love for the Church not to refuse their election, for he was the only man that could heal their differ[e]nces. This afforded a strong reason for his acceptance. A second reason for his leaving the College is drawn from the state of his Ch. and his 
/07f 
relation to it. With the Pus[e]yite and Low church controversies he has taken no part altho' attempts have been made to draw him out of his retirement and identify himself with one or the other of these parties. Threats, 'tis' said, have been made that he should be drawn out and choose his side, for so prominent a man must not be neutral, and Dr. P. has had reason to say, "Save me from my friends." Now, whether as President or Vice President of Un. Coll., he could not properly become a partizan without injuring the Institution. 
Another reason: he has been looked to as Dr. Nott's successor and the whole has been settled in the minds of most of the friends of the College, but this miserable Puseyism which has of late years infected the Episcopal Ch. has more and more embittered all other denominations against the whole body of the Episcopalians. So great is their suspicion, indeed, that they would now hardly permit their children to be educated under the care of so good an Epis. as Dr. P. Here then, Dr. P., although sure of succeeding Dr. Nott if he survived him, so many friends has he, yet is willing to forgo this desirable promotion rather than that an Epis. should prejudice the community again the College. 
[Sunday] July 19, 1845. The hurry and excitement of the coming Semicentennial celebration has expelled every other idea from the head of both students and Profs. The examination at the beginning of this week was hurried off in 2 days and by Wed. noon they were all over. A large portion of the College will remain to attend Comment. and the accompanying exercises. 
The past term I have taught Botany alone--a daily recitation with the Senior Class and about 4 weeks with the Sophomore Class, and an excellent set of Botanists I had in the latter class. Most of them made herbaria and studied the science with great enthusiasm and success. 
[Monday] July 21, 1845. One not acquainted with such matters can hardly imagine the care, anxiety, and labour that arise from the preparations for this Celebration and especially as it has been decided to prepare the dinner here upon the ground. This is the great mistake. It should have been given out to some competent person well acquainted with such matters and the faculty relieved from all trouble in this respect. As it is, all fear a failure somewhere --that the dinner will not be properly prepared, or cooked or arranged right. In quantity there certainly can be no failure. There is an abundance of beef, 50 hams (wl).ich bye the bye on trial were found to be spoiled), 300 chickens, 60 lobsters and 60 tongues. Every 15 ft. 
IO7f 
of table is to have Roast or Alamode beef, ham, lobster, tongue, 
chicken or duck and chicken pie, together with 6 plates of different 
vegitables, variety enough in all conscience; for des[s]ert, a variety 
of pies, oranges, and ice-cream. 
The pavillion for the dinner is composed of 2 tents put 
together, each 80 ft. in diam., obtained gratis from Welch of New 
York. They were first raised on the green between the Colleges, but 
found to[o] much exposed to winds there and removed from thence 
to the grove east of that spot in what is Dr Nott's garden, a most 
charming spot and entirely appropriate. 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
Arrangement ofTa[b]les. 
West Platform, elevated 2 ft. with table whole length for Chairman~ . Vice Pres., and other Distinguished Gentlemen. President. 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
East Tables will be set for 1000 guests. 
Just between the Colleges facing the West, a Triumphal Arch is 
erected 14 ft. high of evergreens, breadth 16 ft. and 8 ft. deep, with 
three arches in front and one each side, thus: 
[DRAWINGSHERE] 
The architect of the arch was Mr. Wm. M. Gillespie, Engineer [and] 
present lecturer at the College. He was assisted by members of the 
Senior Class. 
July 21, 1845. A most scorching day, thermometer at 94. All day 
running to and fro. In the evening the K. A. Society had a celebra.
tion. Procession was formed in front of S. College and marched to 
Pres[byterian] Ch. Prof. Jackson, Marshall. A very respectable 
audience present. Isaiah Townsend, Chairman. Rev. Arthur Burtis 
made prayer and James G. Smith Esqr. of Lyons, Wayne Co., made an 
oration. This afternoon a few of my classmates held a meeting at the 
Library and appointed a meeting for tomorrow morning. 
Strangers are arriving in great numbers, the hotels are full and 
still we have arrangements for accommadating those who come. The 
citizens have been called on by a committee to say how many 
strangers they would lodge; their names are taken by the comm[it.
tee] of reception and those who call upon this same comm. have places assigned them among the cit[izen]s. This Committee has been sittfng at the Chapel of the old West College today and will also do so tomorrow. At the same place is a man to see [to] dinner tickets and a registry of names. 

Tuesday July 22, 1845. Semi-Centennial celebration of Union College. 
A delightful shower last night and a brisk west wind has made this one of the most delightful days of the season. At 8 o'clock in the morning I met about 17 of my classmates [at] the West College where we had a delightful meeting, reviving old friendships and talking over past scenes and successes. Adjourned to meet at 8 tomorrow m[orning[ at the same place. The Front Yard, Library, Geological Museum and Chapel were at an early hour thronged by a great multitude, cheifly of graduates, exchanging hearty congratulations, registering their names and marshalling under their respective ban.ners. There were provided for this occasion 50 small flags, each carried by a small boy, bearing the date of the grad. class, thus: 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
Around each flag the various classes assembled and when the line was formed the flag was carried at the head of the class. At about 1 0 o'clock, the procession began to move, Mr. Joel B. Nott acting as Cheif Marshall seated upon a white horse. The procession numbered full 1000, cheifly graduates, and distinguished strangers from abroad. Mr. Sweetman's address contained many interesting reminiscences of the beginnings of the College, but the great effort was that of Dr. Potter, made still more [a]ffecting in view of his intended seperation shortly for the Bishoprick of Penns. Every one spoke of it in the highest praise. All were moved to tears. About one, the vast assembly began to pour into the West College yard returning from Church and after an hours interchange of good feeling with each other formed in the same order to march to the Pavillion. 
In the little grove at the main entrance to the College grounds on the Hill a fine band from Albany continued playing while the procession was passing, which reached from the Gate to the North College walking 2 and 2 and in close order. The front, when arrived at the North College, wheeled and returned, passed the Triumpal Arch with heads uncovered, wheeled to the right at the mound between the colleges and to the left again up the road by the South Collonade and so to the tent, thus: 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
/Ool 
(Procession winding thro' the Coll. grounds. Terrace.) 
A more beautiful sight can hardly be imagined than this procession winding thro' the beautiful grounds between the colleges, passing the elegant green Arch with its little banners marking out the limits of each class. A melancholy sight it was, too, to see some of the older classes represented by but a single aged white-headed man, some by 2, and alas 2 classes by not a single person. The later classes were however largely represented, my own by at least 21 or 22, a happy and joyful reunion. When arrived at the tents, a beau[ti]ful sight it was to look thro' that noble pavillion 160 feet in length filled with tables covered with white cloths and loaded with abundance, decorated with boquets, and the whole enlivened by a band of music. We sat down by classes--near 1000 of us--the tables being nearly all filled. After dinner followed music, songs, witty and grave speeches, toasts &c. and not till sunset did the assembly break up--all highly delighted and satisfied with the noble entertainment. Nothing happened to mar the pleasure of the Celebration, every face was radiant with joy, and good feeling pervaded the entire assembly. Even the old men grew young again in revisiting the scenes of their former days and meeting some of their old classmates. In the evening Hon. W. W. Campbell made an oration before the P.B.K. Society. Thus closed a great day for Union, such as will not be seen again till 50 years have passed away. 
Wednesday July 23, 1845. Commencement. 
At 8 o'clock this morning, met 20 of my classmates at the West College, where after a happy interchange of kindly feelings we res.olved to print a descriptive catalogue of the Class, a poem to our deceased classmates, and a circular letter. We also resolved to send to myself each a short history of his life to be bound in one vol. and deposited in the Register's office for future reference. Closed our meeting with prayer, resolving to have another meeting 10 years hence. 
Procession formed at 9 1/2 o'clock and marched to the Ch. where the usual exercises were held. At 2 o'clock the dinner was served under the pavillion to some 500 or 600 persons. In the evening, Drs. Yates, Nott and Reed opened their houses to an immense assemblege of youth and beauty for the customary levee. At 9 o'clock, a splendid balloon 2 2 ft high, constructed by Deuel of the Senior Class, was sent up brilliantly illuminated. It ascended till it fairly died away in the distance, the evening being perfectly clear and still. Thus ended the 50th annaversary of Un. Coll. happily, so may they all! 

[Gap from July 23 to August 1, 1845] 
Friday morning August 1, 1845. Half-past one o'clock was born our second child --a fine boy weighing 8 lbs. 
[Gap from August 1 to September 6, 1845] 
September 6, 1845. Have spent most of the past vacation in arranging and numbering the books in the College Library, save a few days in N. Y. city, that great Babel. Term now commences and my duties also, which are these: two recitations a day for the first half.term from the Senior Class, text-book "Potter's Science and the Arts of Industry," a poor book unworthy of the author's name. The last half of the term I shall have two recitations from [the] Sophomore class, one in Plane Geometry and another in Geology. 
[Gap from September 6 to October 21, 1845] 
Tuesday October 21, 1845. At supper party at Hon. Alonzo C. Paiges' in honor of Judge Amasa J. Parker, who has just closed the famous Delhi court where the Anti-renters were tried. Gentlemen present were Dr. Nott, Hon John I. DeGraff, Judge Jones, Rev. Mr. Backus, Platt Potter Esqr., David Cady Smith Esqr., Wm. G. Givens, Mr Wm. 
M. Gillespie, John Cochran Es'qr., Thomas Mumford Esqr., John Sanders Esqr. 
Oysters, ice-Cream, jelly and Pergooloo pears &c. and two bottles of wine. 
Saturday October 25, 1845. A beautiful soft sunny day. Engaged most of the day on some enlarged Geol. Drawings for my class. Afternoon with Mr. Wm. M. Gillespie about Sander's Lake in Scotia. 
Sunday October 26, 1845. Heard Mr. Arthur in A. M. at Baptist Ch. Compared Apostolic Ch and doctrines and practice with the Modern --a stirring eloquent sermon. He is a laborious preacher --preaches and weeps, feeling what he says, makes others feel and must necessarily be eloquent. 
P. M. Heard Mr. Smith (John S., I believe0 in the Pres. Ch. Sorry to say [I] felt very sleepy and couldnt help it in any way. 

[undated entry] 
Dr. Nott, the President of Union College, is now somewhat past his climacteric and may be said to be descending into the "vale of years". His figure is good. His height is about six feet and his constitution must have been naturally excellent. His step is firm; he carries his body erect and, though the Almond tree does not seem to have blossomed prematurely, he has nevertheless the prying look of budding years. His face is of Roman model but softened, as if a Grecian chisel had given it the coup de grace, and made it a place in which thought loves to hold her holiday. It is a face that makes beholders smile rather than wink and that tells us the flame within does not lack oil. His head is beautifully moulded and to our thinking, is such an one as craniology would place at her window to entice customers. His tout ensemble is venerable and the first sight of him draws from the stranger the involuntary inquiry --What gentleman is that? But favorable as is the impression which his exterior is calculated to make; it is the grace and dignity of his manners which fixes the eye and throws the net arounq the heart. 
It would perhaps be as difficult to describe the mysterious fellowship of graces which seems to exist in the manners of a finished genteman as to copy those manners. We can only tell a few of the more palpable qualities of such an one, as in a fine picture we can only point out the stronger lines and objects of beauty, while the rich and mellow power of the whole can only be felt. Goc:xinature, by which we mean that habit of mind which not only takes pleasure in seeing others happy but which prefers another's happiness to its own, is undoubtedly one of the first qualities of an old school gentleman. Affability, by which we mean not garrulity but an easy flow of thought and expression and a vigilant watch to guide and guard the association so that nothing may wound or offend. Grace, by which we mean not only an easy enunciation and pertinent gesticulation, but that inward dress and arrangement of the thought by which, as in a well-arranged family, each member gives interest and beauty to the other. Goc:xitaste, by which we mean not only a delicate tact in originating subjects of interest, but a kind of neatness and easiness in discussing them, which is as superior to all studied refinement of phrases as the tint of health is superior to the tint of rouge. Knowledge, by which we mean not that knowledge which is strictly technical, which like the water spout may surprise and astonish but that which is of universal interest, which like the shower falls upon forest and flower, upon garden and field and fructifies and gladdens all; are all of them essential qualities of the gentleman and these we consider Dr. Nott to possess in an eminent degree. "Such a man might be a copy to these younger times Which followed well, would demonstrate them now But *****backwards." 

We have recently enjoyed the privilege of spending a night with Dr. Nott at the "same traveller's home," Washington Hall, Saratoga Springs and gladly improved the opportunity of sitting at the feet of so distinguished and justly celebrated a man, and hanging on those lips which so emphatically keep knowledge. The Dr officiated at our family "morning sacrifice" and his prayer we think was one of the finest specimens of humble devotion and simple pathos which we have ever heard. The universal and kind Providence of God numbering our hairs, while it rolls the planets and builds the elements; his paternal character; the unnaturalness of sin against such a God, supplication for forgiveness through him who hath loved us and died for us; the humble but confident surrender of ourselves to God, who through waywardness of childhood, the frivolity of youth and the criminality of riper years has nourished and brought us up as children; and the earnest petitions for grace. and consolation amidst the changes and trials that ere long await us all: these several parts of his prayer were all uttered with such simplicity and tenderness of style and tone as to move and melt every heart. We give the following scraps of his conversation, as we can glean them from our own recollections and as nearly in his language as we are able. 
Mr. Clisby. Dr., how long have you been at the head of Union College? 
Dr. N. "Thirty years. I am the oldest President in the office. I cannot drop down anywhere in the Union, but in a few minutes I meet some one of my children." 
Mr. C. "And that too, though so many of them are dead! I believe that nearly half ofmy class are dead." 
Dr. N. "Indeed! that is a large proportion to die so soon. I think it a little remarkable that there have been so few deaths among the members of College since I have been connected with it. I can distinctly recollect all the individuals who have died at College, and during thirty years, these have been but seven. The proportion must be less than one-third percent. Very many, however, have died very soon after leaving College. Two or three in almost every class have died within a year after they have graduated. I have been at a loss as to the cause of this marked difference. I can assign no other reason than the sudden change which then takes place in the student's whole manner and habits of living, diet etc." 

Mr C. "How do the students generally answer the expectations they have raised during their college course?" 
Dr. N. " I have been rarely disappointed. I have found my little anticipatory notes generally fulfilled. I recollect, however one class, which graduated four or five years ago, in regard to which I have been very happily disappointed. It had given us more trouble, and there were more skeptics in it, than in any class we have ever had. But now every one of these infidels except one, is studying for the ministry." 
Mr. C. "What course do you take with a skeptical student?" 
Dr. N. "I remember a very interesting case I had several years ago. There was a young man in College of fine talents, an excellent and exemplary student, but an Atheist. He roomed near me. I was interested in him. But I feared his influence, it was very injurious in College and yet he did nothing worthy of censure. I called him one day to my study. I questioned him familiarly and kindly in relation to his speculative views. He said he was not an Atheist but had very serious doubts and difficulties on the subject and frankly stated them to me. I did not talk with him religiously, but as a philosopher. I did not think he would bear it. I told him that I felt a peculiar sympathy with young men in his state of mind; for once during the French Revolution, I had been troubled with the same difficulties myself. I had been over that whole ground; and would gladly assist his inquiries and direct him to such authors as I thought would aid him in his investigations after truth. As he left my study, I said, 'Now I expect yet to see you a minister of the Gospel!' He returned to his room; he paced it with emotion; said he to his roommate ( these facts his roommate communicated to me within a year), 'What do you think the President says?' 'I don't know.' 'He says, he expects yet to see me a minister. 1 ~ minister! I. a minister!' and he continued to walk the room and reiterate the words. No immediate effect on his character was produced. But the prophetic words (for so he seemed to regard them) clung to him as a magic talisman and were never from his mind and he is now a pious man and a student in Divinity." 
Mr. C. "Dr., we have been seeking amusement and profit by some exercises in elocution. Mr. Gregg and myself have been trying to read Shakespeare a little; but some of these ministers here have had some qualms of conscience, as to the propriety of it, and have condemned the reading of Shak[espeare] as demoralizing. What is your opinion, Sir?" 
Dr. N. "Why, as to that matter, Sir, I always say to my young men, "Gentlemen, if you wish to get a knowledge of the world and of human nature, read the Bible. The Bible is the first and best book that can be studied for the exhibition of human character, and the man who goes out into the world expecting to find men, just such as Moses and Paul have represented them, will never be disappointed. If you are contented to read nothing but your Bible, well, you have it all there. But if you will read any other books, read Homer and Shakspeare. They come nearer in my estimation to Moses and Paul in their delineations of human character, than any other authors I am acquainted with. I would have every young man read Shakspeare. I. have always allowed my children to read it. 

"Ministers as _g.class know less practically of human nature than any other class of men. As I belong to the fraternity, I can say this without prejudice. Men are reserved in the presence of a respectable clergyman. I might live in Schen. and discharge all my appropriate duties from year to year, and never hear an oath or see a man drunk; and if some one should ask me, 'What sort of a people have you in Schen.? Are they a moral folk? Do they swear? Do they get drunk?' for aught that I had seen or heard I might answer, 'This is after all a very decent world! There is very little vice in it. People have entirely left off the sin of profaneness and as to intemperance, there is very little of that.' But I can put on my old great coat and an old slouching hat, and in five minutes place myself amid scenes of blasphemy and vice and misery, which I never could have believed to exist if I had not seen them. So a man may walk along Broadway and think to himself, "What a fine place this is! how civil the people are! What a decent and orderly and virtuous city N. Y. is,' while at the same time within thirty rods of him [are] scenes of pollution and crime, such as none but an eye-witness can adequately conceive. I would have a minister see the world for himself; it is rotten to the 

"Ministers ordinarily see only the brighter side of the world. Almost every body treats them with civility; the religious with peculiar kindness and attention. Hence they are apt to think too well of the world. Lawyers on the other hand think too ill of it. They see only or for the most part the worst side of it. They are brought in contact with dishonesty and villainy in their worst development. I have observed in doing business with lawyers that they are exceedingly hawk-eyed and jealous of everybody. The omission of a word or letter in a will, they will scan with the closest scrutiny and while I. could see no use for any but the most concise and simple terms to express the wishes of the testator, a lawyer would be satisfied with nothing but the most precise and formal instrument, stuffed full of his legal caveats and technicalities. 

Mr C. "Which do you think excels in eloquence, the bar or 
pulpit?" 
Dr. N. "The bar." 
Mr. C. "To what causes do you ascribe the superiority?" 
Dr. N. "The superior influence of things of sight over those of faith. The nearness of objects enhance[s] their importance. The subjects on which the lawyer speaks come home to mens business and bosom. Some present immediate object is to be gained. The lawyer feels and he aims to accomplish something. But ministers have plunged into the metaphysics of religion and gone about to inculcate the peculiarities of a system and have neither felt themselves nor been able to make others feel. It has long been a most interesting question to me? 'Why is the ministry so inefficient?' It has seemed to me, that with the thousands of pulpits in this country for a theatre to act on, and the eye and ear of the whole community thus opened to us, we might overturn the world. Some ascribe the want of efficiency to human depravity. That is not the sole cause. The clergy want knowledge of human nature. They want directness of appeal. They want the same go-a-head-forward, common sense way of interesting men which lawyers have." 
Mr. C. "Ought they not to cultivate elocution?" 
Dr N. "It seems to me that at those institutions where they pay the most attention to elocution, they speak the worst. I have no faith in artificial eloquence. Teach men to think and feel and when they have anything to the purpose to say, they can say it. I should about as soon think of teaching men to cry or to laugh or to swallow as to speak when he has anything to say." 
Mr C. "How then do you account for the astonishing power of some tragedians?" 
Dr. N. "Oh, the speaking in the theatre is all overacted. There is no nature in it. Those actors placed in a public assembly and called on to address men on some real and momentous occasion would utterly fail to touch men's hearts, while some plain countryman, who had never learned a rule of art, would find his way at once to the fountain of feeling and action within them. The secret of the influence which is felt in the acting in the theatre is not, that it is natural. Let a real tragedy be acted and let men believe that a real scene is before them and the theatre would be deserted. No audience in this country could bear the presentation of a natural and real tragedy. Men go to the theatre to be amused. The scenery, the music, the attitude, the gesticulation, all unite to fix attention and amuse, but the eloquence (so-called) of the theatre is all factitious, and is no more adapted to the real occasions of life, than would be the recitation in singing, and it pleases on the same principle that this does." 

Mr. C. "But, Dr., why was it that when Cook or Kean appeared on the stage, they engrossed all eyes and ears and nothing was heard or seen or thought of, but themselves. The acting of Kean was just as irresistible as the whirlwind. He would take up an audience of three thousand in his fist, as it were, and carry them just where he pleased, through every extreme of passion. 
Dr. N. "Because they were great men; Cook, as I have been able to learn ( for I never saw him; for though I had made an engagement with him to meet me in Phil. he was drunk at the time and disappointed me) was perfectly natural. So I suppose Kean to have been. So Garrick was, and Talma. And the secret of these men's power was that they burst the trammels of art and histrionic trick, and stood before the audience in ungraced nature. Garrick at his first appearance could not command an audience. It was first necessary for him to revolutionize entirely the English stage. 
"Ministers have very often a sanctimonious tone, which by many is deemed a symbol of goodness. ~ would not say it is a symbol of hypocrisy, as many very pious men have it. One man acquires a tone and those who study with him learn to associate it with his piety and come to esteem it an essential part of ministerial qualifications. But instead of its being to me an evidence of feeling, it evinces in every degree of it want of feeling, and whenever a man rises in his religious feelings sufficiently high, he will break away from the shackles of his perverse habit and speak in the tone of nature. 
"The most eloquent preacher I have ever heard was Dr. Linn. General Hamilton at the bar was unrivalled. I heard his great effort in the case, People versus Croswell, for a libel upon Jefferson. There was a curious changing of sides in the position of the advocates. Spencer, the attorney general, who had long been climbing the ladder of democracy, managed the cause for the People; and Hamilton, esteemed an old-school federalist, appeared as the champion of a free rress. Of course it afforded the better opportunity of witnessing the f'rofessional skill and rhetorical power of the respective advocates. Spencer in the course of his plea had occasion to refer to certain decisions of Lord Mansfield and embraced the opportunity of introducing a splendid ad captandum eulogium on his Lordship --a name born for immortality, whose sun of fame would never set, but still hold its course in the heavens, when the humble names of himself and his antagonist should have sunk beneath the waves of oblivion! Hamilton was evidently nettled at this invidious and 
toeq 
unnecessary comparison and cast about in his mind how he might retort upon Spencer. I do not know that any conjecture is right, but it has always seemed to me, that his reason for introducing his satirical retort to Spencer in the odd place where he did, just after a most eloquent [appeal] and pathetic peroration, was something as follows. 'I have now constructed and arranged my argument and the thread of it must not be broken by the intervention of any such extraneous matter. Neither will it do to separate .my peroration from the main body of my argument. I must then either give up the opportunity of retorting at all, or tack it on .... 
[Gap from the undated entry following entry for October 26 to that 
for December 4, 1845] 
Thanksgiving Day December 4, 1845. Wife Molly and self dined af Dr. Nott's at 4 o'clock. Present, two [ot]the Dr's. Connecticut (female) relatives. Mr and Mrs. Howard Nott, John Nott, Howards two children, Molly and I, 
Dr. Nott. "Here, Urania, you must talk to the folks. I am glad I've got a wife that can talk to folks. I cant talk to folks unless I have it all to myself. Women talk a great deal more than men do; they can talk easier." 
Speaking of the cold weather I said, "These coal stoves are wonderful comforting [in] our climate." 
Dr. N. "These stoves (his own) are the only ones that ever got unpopular and then came into extensive use again. They are the best stove by all odds ever made to burn our coal in, but if a person dont know how to use them they are the worst. 
At table Dr. said Grace. Dr. N. "John, what'll you have?" 
John N. "Dont know. I've been to dinner once." 
Dr. "Well then (playfully) what are you here for if you've had dinner?" 
John. "Mr. Van Vechten preached a political sermon this morning. He enumerated all our national sins and what political evils as a nation we are most in danger of." 
Dr. N. "Did he tell how these evils could be cured? that would be a much harder task." 
Speaking of Thanksgiving days and other holidays I said that I was not sure that our Puritan fathers didnt reform too much in doing away with all festivals and fasts from the Ch., for example Christmas and Easter. 
toqo 
Dr. N. "No, I think not. I wouldnt have any holidays in the year except Sab[bath] Day. They do more hurt.than good. There's 4th July, its influence is very bad upon the morals of the people." 
Some reference was made to the condition of the poor, of Fourierism etc., when the Dr said, "As society is constituted at the present day, the rich are growing richer and the poor, poorer. I dont see how this evil can be stopped. It must increase. Everybody's talking about the condition of the laboring classes now and making plans for their benefit, and all the time they are growing poorer. This Fourierism has some good things in it, but we aint good enough, I'm afraid, for that plan. The best laws for the poor man ever devised are Moses laws. He had a jubilee once in SOyears and then all the bond went free and all debts were cancelled." 
I. "Some have proposed to divide the public lands into farms and give them to actual settlers." 
Dr. N. "I'm afraid that never can be done and if it could perhaps 'twouldnt reach the evil." 
December 13, 1845. Visited Dr. Nott's this evening and among other conversation about books &c., Mrs. Nott said, "I like to read biographys, no books please me so much, I never forget them, I know all I ever read." 
Dr. N. "So do I. I never read but one in my life; and that was about that Methodist man --you know, Urania, what's his name?" 
Mrs. N. "Wesley?" 
Dr. N. "Yes, Wesley. Folks read too much and think too little. 
Mrs. N. "I never saw any man carry out this opinion but you; I dont believe you ever read a book, I never see you read any, I dont see how you got along in your younger days." 
Dr. N. "O yes, I read some. I always have some book by me which I am reading, but I read slowly and thoroughly. I have read Shuckford's and Prideaux's Conneion, Hume's History of England, that infidel's book ... ?" 
Mrs. N. "Gibbon." 
Dr. N. "Gibbon's Rom. Empire and Rollin's Ancient History. I never read but two novels, Vicar of Wakefield and the Mysteries of Paris. Of poetry Ive read Milton and Homer very thoroughly. Thompson's Seasons and Shakespeare. I like Homer. I wrote a translation and notes of his Iliad once but have lost them. All my books are gone. I once had a complete sett of classics, dictionaries, and grammars, but folks have borrowed all away, I haven't got now a single Lat. or Grk. Dictionary. Dr. P. has got some of my books and College Library, a good many. I suppose they are safest there. I gave up long ago keeping any books and out of revenge I never return 

any." 
In conversation some evenings since with Dr. Nott on the subject of slavery he said, "I am not sure but what the New Testament directly condemns slavery and that many of those Greek words which we have translated in the Bible shouldnt be different rendered and by so doing go directly against slavery and slavestealing." 
I. "Does'nt Paul countenance slavery when he sent back Onesimus, a runaway slave?" 
Dr. N. "You cant make out any such thing from that epistle. Then take the Bible and read it. Urania, what's that short epistle about Onesinus called? 
 Mrs. N. "Philemon." I read the espistle. 
Dr. N. "There is no reason from that for supposing Onesinus to have been a slave; doubtless he was Philemon's younger brother to whom he was indebted and ran away, became converted under Paul's preaching and now is sent back. I wish some few men in this city could be waked up on the subject of slavery. Fifty men in this county would weild a tremendous influence thro' the ballot-boxes. If they would say we wont vote for a rum seller or a rum drinker, they could oblige one or both parties to nominate total abstinence men." 
I. "If a few of our leading polititians would go heartily against slavery,they might weild a vast influence with their parties." 
Dr. N. "It's no use to go to great men. They never begin reforms, they wont have any thing to do with them till the tide is well set that way. You must go to common people." 
December 17, 1845. A few days ago Prof. Yates gave a dinner party to Prof. Brown of Dartmouth College whom rumor has assigned to Mrs. Savage for her second husband. The party consisted of Dr. Nott, Dr. Van Vechten, Prof. Brown, Rev. Mr. Slingerland, Rev. Mr. Crocker, Tutor Brown, Tutor Kelly, Doctor Vedder, Rev. John Nott and myself. A very agreeable party in all respects. Drs. Nott and Van Vechten and Prof Brown carried on much of the conversation. On Animal Magnetism Dr. N. gave his experience and what he knew from experiment; on the future condition of the world, on Sweden.borgianism, Prof Bush; and on tobacco, for which Rev. Mr. Slingerland was the cheif apologist. Dr. N. said he once chewed and smoked but gave them up entirely some years since, and would not on any account use them again. Said he knew a very distinguished man (Gov. Seward) who used tobacco (smoked) to such excess as to give him the delerium tremens; he had lately given up its use. He 
{Oqy 
thought on the whole it shortened human life. I then said that a surgeon in the British East India Com[pany] employment had published in the London Lancet an article in which he had highly extolled its use in many cases as a medicine. 
Dr. N. "For that very reason it shouldnt be used habitually, no more than opium, lest its influence on the system should be weakened. 
I. "But we cant use tobacco (smoke or chew) as a medicine even without having learned to use it; it first makes folks sick." 
Dr. N. "Another argument showing that it wasnt made to be used habitually, it's a poison 
