
Thursday eve, March 24, 1846. At Dr. Nott's where Dr. Judson and his intended wife Miss Chubbuck, better known as "Fanny Forrester." Dr. 
J. was speaking to Dr. N. of the Government of Burmah &c. Finally 
Dr.J. to Dr. N .. "Is your brother living?" 
Dr N. "Yes, Dr. J." 
[Dr. J.] "How old is he now? when I saw him 30 years ago he was then an old man." 
Dr. N. "He is now above 90 yrs." 
Dr.J. "He is the first occasion of my ever having a doubt on the subject of baptism. On an occasion when I was speaking to him about the mode of baptism, he said, 'There is no doubt but what the primitive mode was immersion.' Till then I had never had a doubt that my practice was not right." 
Dr.N. "My brother got that from me, Dr.J." 
[Dr. J.] "Then see, Sir, what mischeif you have done. You have indirectly made me and Rice and our wives Baptists. And to return the favour I came nigh making your nephew Samuel a Baptist." 
Dr. N. "Well, that would'nt have been much matter. Did you become a Baptist before reaching Calcutta?" 
Dr.J. "No--not entirely. When we were not suffered to remain in the East India Co's possessions, we retired to Serampore. It was there that I was baptised. When we arrived there, the English Bapt. Missionaries received us cordially. The next day (the Sabbath) was to be their communion Sabbath. In conversation Dr. Marshman asked me, 'Pray, Mr. Judson, how do your churches look upon Communion, do they commune with unbaptised persons, for instance with a Quaker?' Dr J. 'Oh no, of course not.' When we retired, Rice says, 'There, Judson, you've stepped your foot in it now; dont you see they've got you now where you cant move hand nor foot. Tomorrow they wont ask you to communion and you cant answer a word.' Rice 
(09J 
was provoked but I was thankful. I told him that I felt more 
reconciled to it than he." 
Dr. N. "Well, this thing of close[d] communion, which so much troubles some folks, never gave me any uneasiness. If a man gives me true Christian fellowship, why I have the substance; the other matter, it is true, would be gratifying but the withholding that alone is of no consequence to me. I never had any of that partizan feeling for this or that denomination and, when at our minister's meetings I have heard them deprecate the loss of members by Methodists or Baptists or other denominations, I could never enter into their feelings. In fact, we have but two great armies, that of Jesus Christ and that of Satan. Now it matters not to me in what regiment I am if only I am on Jesus side; whether I am in the 47th or the 50th is of no consequence. We have but one great object in view, the pulling down of Satan's Kingdom." 
Conversation turned upon preaching and Mr. Knapp was mentioned. Dr. J. "I have heard that he is very extravagant." 
Dr. N. "Truth is a very hard thing to get at. Some stories about Mr. K. I know to be false; he may have altered some since he preached here, but his meetings here were beautiful; he exerted a beautiful influence here, his converts held out well; he left no bad influence behind. I had rather hear Mr. K. preach than any man I ever heard; he preached here some of the greatest sermons I ever heard, he is a wonderful man." 
March 31, 1846. Examination of Class in Mental Philosophy I (to Mr. Crocker, Examiner) "This is an interesting study, I've been much pleased with it . Dr. Nott. "I wouldn't give a single brass farthing for all this Mental Philosophy." 
[Gap from 1846 to March 10, 1854] 
