
Union College Friday March 10, 1854. Three years since on account of the temporary absence of Alex. Holland, Treas. of the College, then in New York, I was employed by Dr Nott to supply his place for two years, perhaps three. The better to attend to these additional duties, thus annexed to my labors as a professor, I removed from my house to the colonnade ho[use] back of the Presidents Ho[use] where I resided two years, till last May, when I returned. In the meantime I rented my own ho[use] to Mr. Taylor, the Dutch Minister, whose wife died in the summer of 1852, when on account of some differences 

with the church he left for Jersey City. 
The labor of the two offices (Prof. and Treas.) has been severe and perplexing. The books of the Treas. had never been properly kept. Evidences of carelessness and untidyness were found in many of the transactions of the office; investments had been made on insufficient security; the servants and laborers in many cases had largely overdrawn their wages, the Cash Book of the Register did not balance; in fine a complete reform was called for in the business and books and a new inventory of property was absolutely necessary to commence anew. 
One prominent evil was the keeping two sets of books in the same office by one person, called the Treasurers books and the Registers; the former subject to rhe audit of the Trustees, the latter not. They were kept without system, there being neither day boo:K nor ledger--a cash book only! 
After much persuasion, the Finance Com. (who probably with some reason distrusted my abilitys for such a task, having never studied, much less practiced, bookkeepingO consented to my attempting to reduce the whole business of the office to one set of books kept by double entry. They were opened on Jan 1, 1852 with a general inventory of all the disposable property of the College. And á altho' not in the highest style of the art they have brought system and order into the accounts and showed in a satisfactory manner the exact state of the College finances ever since. 
A balance sheet is made out every six months for the use of the Trustees, whereas previously, altho' the Treas. reported once a year, yet the want of any true system either by single or double entry completely befogged the Auditors, and the Trustees never knew whether the expenses were in excess of income or not. The fact appears, however, that by losses and loose and unnecessary expenses the College spent for many years not less than $2000 per year more than the receipts or income. Now the funded property yielding income is reduced so low that it requires the most rigid economy to make both ends of the year meet, if indeed this can be done. It is hoped, and this is our only hope, that the munificent gift of the President will soon yield such an addition to our income that the College finances will be comparatively easy. 
Sunday March 12, 1854. Weather warm, clear, genial. Snow gone, ice out of the river and the birds alive and singing. 
Attended church. A.M. Presbyterian, Mr. Backus. P.M. Dutch, Rev. Mr. Seelye, a young talented Conn. man and nephew of Vice Pres. Hickok. After travelling a year in Europe at the close of his theol. studies at Auburn, he settled here last year and gives general good satisfaction to his Dutch hearers. 

Union College Monday March 13, 1854. Weather ásame as yesterday, more like an April than March day. The same routine and round of daily College duties, seldom varied or relie[ve]d by any novelty. Breakfast at 7, to College at at 8 1/2, and at Treasury duties till near 11 oclock: writing letters, dunning tardy debtors, answering questions of students, then to laboratory, prepare experiments for class in Chem. which over at 12 o'clock, back to office till 1 o'c[loc]k except on Mondays at Library fr[om] 1 to 2 P.M; after hasty lunch, back again to Tr[easurer's] office and to Rec[itation]in Chem; at 4 -5, when close office and walk till 6, tea; evening at work on General Catalogue of graduates &c&c. 
Tuesday March 14, 1854. One of the most extraordinary controversies of these last 10 years, for a local one, is that of Dr. Nott and his friends with Hon. James Beekman of New York, assisted by a few cautious and determined coadjutors. It is hoped that the contest is now closed by the final report of the Senate Committee, Messrs. Ward and Jones, the Chairman Mr. Vanderbilt declining to report at all. The whole history of the affair is most amply set forth by Mr. J. C. Spencer in his able argument before the Committee, in favor of Dr. Nott; and the friends of the latter consider his character triumphantly vindicated thereby. The confirmation by the commit.tee of Mr. S[pencer]'s main points seems to leave but little to be desired to render the decision final. Many persons who believe in a just retribution for unrighteous acts in this world consider the whole unfortunate controversy with all its attendent evils as a curse ... 
Wednesday March 15, 1854. ...naturally to be expected to follow from so unholy a manner of making money even if it were applied to a good purpose, the building up of a literary Institution. They charge that lotteries 30 years ago were just as well known to be an evil as now, and that, when in view of such a decision both by public sentiment and the law of God, Trustees of a College, venerable Statesmen and Doctors of Divinity beset the Legislature for a law to enable them to endow a College with the fruits of the worst kind of gambling, they must well expect a judgement to follow and not repine if the rod ls laid on unsparingly. And as our venerable Pres[iden]t has been the acknowledged leader in all the pecuniary as well as the literary affairs of Un. College, he of course comes in for a double share of the obloquy and odium. He is not only charged with gambling by lotteries but with doing so for his own private ends; and when his friends refer to his SO years labor, unflag[g]ing labor for the interests of education, and to the magnificent donation with which he has endowed Un. Coll., when it is claimed that his name should be honored for it, the mouth of slander stopped, then it is answered that no boast should be made of gifts obtained by such means --the less said about them, the better; the wages of sin, the fruits of unholy gain should be suffered to remain in eternal oblivion and the agents' name never be mentioned therewith. Again they deny that the whole gains of the lotteries have been made over to the College [as] so often promised and now again said to have been consummated. They deny him to be a safe or successful financier as is evidenced by the fact that the amount of money received by him from Yates and McIntyre in his own name and individual right and all of which is said now to have been made over to the College, surpasses the worth of property set forth in the argument of Mr. Spencer as due to the munificence of Dr. Nott; that if these same monies had been put at interest when first received from 15 to 20 years ago they would now have amounted to from $1,200,000 to $1,500,000, whereas the most that is claimed to be given is $600,000 from which a large abatement should be made for extravagant anticipations. A striking result for a shrewd financier. The unscrupulous opponents charge also direct fraud, concealment, subterfuges to blind the committees, false reports, forced balances, unlawful and improper use of Coll. funds, &c&c., all the fruit of one man's brain, the Presidents, and the natural result of his crooked, tricky, and headstrong course, 

Then too the Trustees were a set of old women only fit to wear caps and be led by the nose by a shrewd and cunning leader who always contrived to hoodwink them, "pull the wool over their ears," lulling all their suspicions, making them think that everything was right, and telling them just what to think and when to vote yea. Indeed the charges are legion, some plausible, others apparent falsehoods, yet having been so long uncontradicted and so often reiterated by Mr. Beekman in the Assembly and Senate, their effect upon the public mind have been necessarily damaging, both to the reputation of Dr. Nott and to the success of the College. Some even of his best friends did finally begin to fear that his character could not quite be cleansed from the foul blot, and when in the spring of 1853 the long array of figures was presented by the accountant by which Dr. N. was made a debtor to the College in the sum of $885,000, when the Committee appointed 2 years before by the Senate, or a majority of them, with unbecoming haste and it would seem evil intent pressed the statement before the Senate without permitting the Trustees or the Pres[ident] to examine the same, much less to explain and rectify any false charges; when finally Mr. B. triumphed so far as to have the long document printed and widely distributed thro' the state, his day of final triumph seemed to have come and the reputation of the Coll. and its Prest. to be irreparably ruined. 

Mr. B., evidently an honest man, commenced the investigation [un]doubt[ed]ly with honest intentions; his mind had been pois[oO ned by the wily insinuating and plausible Prof. (now gone before the High Tribunal) but what had at first been a just desire for the truth became in the end an intense determination to conquer and to make true his many harsh and astounding statements. He has hitherto considered his honor ... 
March 16, 1854 .... at stake, his veracity and consistency of character; and after using all possible persuasion to induce Senator Vanderbilt to report adversely to his colleagues, it remains to appear what will be his future course; but that some answer will be made to Mr. Spencer's argument and to the majority report is quite probabl[e]. Indeed, the accountant Vanderheyden, who has been highly exasperated that his character as an accountant has suffered so severely in the investigation, told me on Saturday last in the street in Albany that he had a statement already prepared for the press in which an altogether different face would be put upon the affair. 
A bright warm April day. Spring comes on apace and less signs of winter are about us than I have often seen in the middle of April. Already the croakers are prophecying a cold April, a backward Spring and that we shall pay for our fine weather in April or May. A few days since died one of our old and faithful servants, Patrick McKinney, who has served the College more than 20 years. 
Union College March 17, 1834. Last evening at a meeting of the Trustees of the Lancaster School Society, of which I have been a member some 4 or S years --an inefficient, powerless body without means or the legal right to raise them. It seems to be conceded that no town in the state of its size has poorer schools than Schendy and, what is worse, the old Dutch tax payers have hitherto strenuouly opposed any change which would increase their taxes. Two years since, efforts were made by the friends of education to improve our system or rather to introduce system where none existed. [We?] drew up an excep.tionable bill, applied to the Legislature for its passage, held public meetings to urge forward the movement, yet a few slow-paced old "fogies" raised opposition enough to prevent its passage. This winter another attempt has been made with much better prospect of success. The plan now is to purchase the Old West College, for a low price and make it the central school for the whole city, teaching all the children free from A.B.C. to Latin and Greek. If carried out with spirit and liberality, this plan cannot but redeem our character for indifference and niggardliness. The ostensible movers are Judge Paige and Dr Nott, altho' too years since the original movement cameá from the Lancasterian Board of Trustees, the effect of which has never entirely ceased. 

A call from Alex. Holland Sister Mary Ann, Sarah Harvey and Edward Magoun arrived from Hudson. 
The Faculty of Union College stands thus at present. E. Nott Pres., L. P. Hickok Vice Pres, and Prof. of Ment. & Mor. Phil. He came to College in Aug. 1852 to relieve Dr. N. in part of his duties and eventually to take the Presidency. It r~mains for time and occasion to show his fitness for the office. In the mean time he is 'getting broke into" Dr. N's. ways and the customs and habits of the Coll. so that no violent change will eventually be made in the government when Dr. N. 's administration ceases. 
He is a large, good-natured, frank, (sometimes blunt and abrupt) man, honest and without much craft and worldly-wisdom or, as some would call it, expediency. He may be deficient in tact. To this time a few, but very few, things have occurred to mar the good feeling between him and the faculty and those have now passed away. It might have been expected perhaps that a little jealousy would arise against a new man taking the highest place next the Pres. and the lead of the older and long tried Professors, especially if he attempted No dose airs and authority towards them. It is all over now, I presume, and perhaps will not happen again. The Notty mode of government of a college is peculiar and unique and will never do for anybody else but himself and will never be tolerated by the [Trustees?] or a faculty except in his case. Whoever therefore assumes his ways and usurps his reins and spurs will surely be thrown. 
The whole faculty with one exception (Prof Gillespie) have been pupils under Dr. Nott, have grown up to manhood and some to grey hairs, deferring to his authority and experience. Even if opposed to some of his ideas, they seldom manifest their opposition save by growling and scolding to themselves --farther they never go. Our 
1oq9 
government is without laws or rules. If we ever had any, they have been long since [become?] out of print and obselete. The Presidents will is law on all points, for discipline, literary affairs and, until of late, in finances. No man says nay. Universal obedience is expected, especially in the corps of teachers. It is a despotism pure and per.fect without any admixture. One [would] might say that such a rule must be hard to be borne, but let such an one remember that a just and patriarchal despotism is by no means a bad government, and he will see why no greater evils flow from it in Un. Coll. and why so much good is elicited. It enables the Head to move without restrictions and with celerity, to act promptly, to deal summarily, to punish secretly, to warn and exhort with long suffering without exposure of a young man to the scorn and contempt of his teachers who often know nothing of his faults. In financial matters if th~ Prest. be wise and careful, whereof he acts with the same promptitude and precision, occasions may arise when the mere time lost for calling together a meeting of Trustees or of Fin. Com. for consultation might prove a delay of serious import. Such occasions are said to have occured in the Lottery transactions of the College, when the Prest. had plenary powers and used them as he saw flt. But allowing that one man in ten thousand would neither abuse such authority nor make an unwise use of it, the question may still be asked, Is a despotism on the whole, under all circumstances on all occasions, the best form of government for a college, wherein the Pres. is everything and the faculty nothing. Out of 20 Prests. of Colleges, how many could wisely use such power without harm, or how many faculties would submit to it? 
So far as the ordinazy discipline of a college is concerned and in cases of minor importance, the Prest. should undoubtedly use the executive power of the laws, It would be small business to call a faculty of grave men together to deliberate seriously upon small and trifling offenses. He should also have a general superintendance over other departments, and his views should and naturally would by virtue of his office and age, have great influence with the faculty and other officers. But farther than this he should be no more than any other member of the faculty. In fact the President should be a professor, with only certain well-defined powers added to his profes sorship, making him president also. For example in the department of instruction and literature of a college, no one man's will should be preeminent. Should the Prest. and Prof. of Moral Phil. dictate to me what text book I should use in Chem. or Botany or in Calculus or Mechanics? Should he direct me how to teach these studies, how much, and where to stop? In the matter of buildings and grounds, 
!loo (OCO 
should the taste and judgement of the President necessarily be preeminent above all others? Again, in finances, is it expected or does it often happen that he is remarkably economical and prudent 
and far-sighted ? 
Saturday March 18, 1854. To return from a long episode, or rather digression;. 
The third member of the Faculty is Prof. Robert Proudfit DD. emeritus Prof. of languages, the oldest of our corps of teachers. Cb account of his age and infirmities some years since the Trustees excused him from the active duties of his Professorship and gave him a pension of $500 and his house. 
On his retiring, Prof. Tayler Lewis LLD to[ok] a part of his duties viz., the Prof[essorshi]p. of Greek. His reputation as a scholar and writer deservedly stands high. He is intensely conservative in all his opinions, especially in religion and politics, is a little, active, nervous man, apparently of a feeble constitution and frail. His coming was considered by all its friends as a capital accession to the College. 
Prof. Isaac W. Jackson LLD. of Math. &c, has written several books admirably adapted to our college courses and is the oldest Prof. after Dr Proudfit. Like Prof. Lewis, he is a small excitable man, of tolerable health; and hard-working and faithful to his duties. He is likewise Superindent of the Botanical Garden and during summer spends much of his time there. We regard this beautiful spot as our only Lion at Union and during the summer months it is much visited and praised by strangers from abroad. 
It is with sorrow that I am obliged to speak of the loss of Prof. Thomas C. Reed D.D., the Prof. of Latin, who was an old friend and classmate of Prof. J[ackson]. He fell by the taste for drink and resigned his office. After spending a year or more at the Asylum at Utica he left cured of his love of drink, as his friends say, and is now understood to be conducting successfully a boy's school at Geneva. 
Prof. John Foster, and myself were classmates. A more conscientious and thorough teacher is seldom found; without bril[l]iancy he still has wit and humour, and what is better a large share of perseverance and taste for labor. 
Wm. M. Gillespie professes Engineering, and may be considered a very industrious, hard-working man, has a thorough knowledge and decided taste for his department and has built it up to what it now is, one of the best Engineering schools in the country. Our young Engineers are spoken well of and readily succeed in getting desirable places on leaving college. He is looked upon as an indispensable man 
fIOJ 
for the college. His books are much used and are about to be increased by the addition of a surveying [book] on which he has spent great labor and thought. 
Iohn Nott professes many things--Hebrew, Natural History and Theology, Rhetoric &c&c .. With all his eccentricities and oddities he is still a very companionable man. 
John Newman is the youngest of our number, and was chosen among other reasons because he is a Methodist clergyman of whom we have hitherto had none in the faculty. Latin language is his department. He appears to be a man of merit, of good sense and great worth and stability of character. 
Elias Peisner from the Univ. of Munich, Germany, teaches German, French &c. His services are appreciated by his classes who call him a good teacher. He is a young man, unmarried. He published a Germ. Grammar last year, no[w] in use here. 
M. Wendell L'Amoreux of Albany has heretofore been teacher of French and other modern languages but is now only temporarily lecturing upon a special subject, "the art of thinking.' It is not probable that he will long remain attached to College. He seems to have good taste and a liking for belles lettres, but if he lacks anything it is perhaps perseverance and application. He seems a man of leisure, fond of society to which he can make himself agreeable. 
Doct. Alex. M. Vedder, a physician in town, only lectures during the summer term to the Seniors on Anatomy and Physiology. 
Alexander Holland is nominally Treasurer, altho' for 3 years the duties have been performed by myself. He resides in N. Y. and is the Treasurer of the American Express Co. It is probable that he will resign in July when another will be appointed. Levi H. Willard acts as register in the Treasury Office. 
Here ends the list. 
10 o'clock at night. We have had during the day one of the most tremendous gales ever known in this region even by the "oldest inhabitant." The few days of warm, pleasant weather was followed last night by a change in the wind to the west, commencing about 12 o'clock, accompanied by sudden flaws and squalls of snow. In the morning, the blow increased and so continued till 3 o'clock P. M. when the hurricane, if it may be so called, reached its height. The air was filled with dust, leaves, straws and other light bodies, giving a yellow hue to the heavens. Few clouds were seen and the temperature was by no means low. At noon I visited the city on business and as I found at imminent hazard of my neck. Bricks, shingles, slates and coping were flying on all sides, fences were prostrated, chimney tops felled, fire walls tilted, and a general 
IlOL/ 
apprehension among the citizens that some serious mishap would 
befal[l] them if they ventured from beneath their roofs. 
The most serious accidents I have yet learned were the fall of Mr. Harvey Davis' chimnies and fire walls upon an adjoining roof, which was crushed. Ditto of Adrian Van Santvoords' in State St., crushing Mrs. Van Pelts roof. The unroofing of the City Police Office. The breaking in of S. S. Riggs Printing office roof by the fall of the chimnies and fire walls. Ditto of Joseph Hossfalls house in College Street near West College, and the blowing in of the brick pediment, south end of South College, thereby greatly endangering the roof, which for more than two hours was momentarily expected to be flung into Dr. Lewis garden. The wind lifted it at times more than a foot but being held and tied by roof boards &c. to the main roof it as often fell back again into its place. 
Dr. Nott says he never knew of but two gales so severe, one of which blew the North Pediment of North College over into the garden. The wind has now lulled at 11 o'clock and promises to annoy us no more tonight. 
Sunday March 19, 1854. Weather cold, with moderate west wind prevailing. Heard Dr. Nott preach in A.M. at Baptist Ch., Mr. Day being sick. Text 2d Corinth. 5th c. 20th v. Altho' laboring under a slight cold, I think I never heard him preach better. The smallness of the lecture room enabled him to be heard distinctly in all parts, which is not often the case in large churches. In his later years he preaches but few sermons, repeating them often. This same sermon I have heard, I think, more than once before. He always commits his sermons to memory and usesá no notes --a practice I presume growing out of his defective eye-sight, altho' I have some idea that he often did the same in his younger days. Old persons who heard him 40 or SOyears ago speak in glowing terms of his eloquence and I presume with truth. 
tt03 
Yet he has always seemed to me in his own practice to contradict his own favorite rules or advice to his pupils in regard to eloquence and public speaking. He eschews all rules. He gives no advice as to attitudes, gestures &c., only to speak naturally and as the feelings prompt to move the body, head or arms. He says that educated speakers, speak the worst, --all is artificial and produces no effect upon the auditors. To me his public efforts in pulpit or elsewhere have always seemed very elaborate and all his movements studied --I use the term not in an offensive sense -studied so as to imitate natural and graceful movements in which he is by no means unsuccessful. He studies evidently to please or not to offend, and to move. That he does not teach his pupils as he himself practices I am not able to say; perhaps he is not aware of the inconsistency. 
The fact is nature and feelings, uneducated, are not in all men a sure and proper guide. Rudeness in some men is nature, feeling in others leads to noise and rant. In the composition of his sermons he evidently leaves nothing to the promptings of the occasion, if he does in their delivery. They are written and rewritten with great care and effort; the words and sentences are carefully chosen; and the whole performance seems to me to have a type somewhere which he endeavours to imitate or follow. 
I have had many vexatious experiences of the Doctor's manner of composing, for of late years he usually employs others to copy for him from his rough drafts. Having selected his subject, he employ[s] a comparison: he first scores and rough hews it, it must then be copied; it is next smooth hewed, again copied; he then applies the jack plane, copied; afterwards the jointer, copied; now he bores and mortices, copied; makes tenons and draw bores when, because the timber must be used and no more time can possibly be permitted for finishing and polishing, it is copied for the last time. His poor amanuensis, whoever he may be, finds his patience fast waning long before the last toutch is put upon his work. Printers complain long and bitterly of his alterations after his matter is in type and usually charge from 2 to 3 times the price of plain, straightforward work. 
Monday March 20, 1854. An inch of snow last night. Cold and raw today. Sad news of disaster by the late [storm?] in Troy and Albany and elsewhere. We have no right to complain when others have fared much worse than ourselves. News came tonight from Albany of the death of Mr. Henry Yates Esqr., late Trustee of the College and for 28 years its Treasurer to 1833. Age 84. For some years past he has suffered from the effects of a paralysis which has incapacitated him from any business, rendering him as helpless as a child. He served the College long and faithfully, ably seconding the President in all the hazardous transactions of the Literature Lotteries from 1822 to 1833. In the unfortunate suit between[Dr. N.] and Yates & Mcintyre, being one of that firm he naturally sided with them and has been suspected since by the friends of Dr. Nott of being inimical to him. Whether with good reason I can not say; latterly he certainly has been too feeble to take any interest in the controversy, and indeed I have my doubts whether he ever cooperated heartily with the Dr's enemies. I think he leaves but 4 living children: Charles of N. York City, Stephan of Schenectady, Mrs. Satterlee of Albany and another daughter who married a clergyman. He was reputed one of the most wealthy men of Albany, the results cheifly of lotteries. He lost many years since two other sons, Edward of Schenectady and later Henry of d[itt]o, both men of intemperate_ habits and the latter unmarried. 

Sister, Mrs. M.A. Magoun, nephew Edward d[itt]o, sister-in-law Sarah Maria Harvey returned at 2 o'clock to Hudson, the two former to their] house --the latter to Rev. J. B. Hague's Boarding School for young 
ladies. 
Tuesday March 21, 1854. Cool, winterish, and wind from the snowy north. Now reviewing for approaching farce --the examination to close the session. These occasions degenerate with time. Once they struck terror to the Freshman's heart and urged him [to] greater diligence and study; they were conducted by the grave and portly Dr. Mc Master and by Drs. Proud.fit and Murphy. The classes were addressed formally and sent away well seasoned with good advice. Their marks for absences were read publicly and "private communications 11 announced with this or that culprit. All these old-fashioned customs are past, and their salutary effects with them. Discipline in College has sensibly waned in the 23 years I have known it -.a fact perhaps to be expected from the advancing years of the President, yet on the whole I do not think the behaviour and morals of the young men worse. One vice --intemperance --has certainly lessened and with it much of the noise and violence accompanying it. All colleges, so far as I know, profess a fatherly and kind government, and doubtless there is much of this element mingled with their discipline but ours is excessively so; forbearance and long-suffering with us is elastic and reaches to the utmost limits of youthful indiscretion and folly. When shall a young be sent from College? is a question to be answered in many ways; surely not for thoughtless mischeif and tricks of a harmless character, in which moral taint is not mixed. Most would answer, "When a boy by his bad example corrupts his fellows; and when after proper warning and good advice he ceases not his folly." 
Our practice differs.á In many conversations with Pres[iden]t N., my impression is that he deals with a young man according to the popular 

opinion of him in College. "I let a fellow stay," said he to me a few days 
since, "till like a decayed pear he drops of himself, then his mates do not 
object to his being removed from College. But if you send a boy off before 
opinion is ripe for it in College, you raise a row, and get ill will by it, and 
have rebellions and plots against the faculty and all that sort of thing." 
However much we may admire the Dr's tact in the management of youth, I 
have .known but one opinion with the faculty, and that is that he carries 
his system to excess. While the pear is rotting, will it not communicate 
taint to its neighbors? The whole flock may become diseased by one 
infected member, but seperate him in time and and the rest may escape 
and live. To save one profligate, we may ruin an innocent you th by the 
force of his evil example and enticements. 
There can be but little doubt that our Pres't. magnifies the good of his practice and loses sight of the evil. I believe he deceives himself with the idea that ours is almost the perfect system, while other Colleges are still floundering in the blue laws of the 18th century. He has a thorough contempt for the management of the N. E. Colleges in particular and said to me lately, "They ruin from 1/ 4 to 1/3 of all the young men that enter Yale College. I never had any difficulty in saving a young --never saw but two that I couldnt manage"! What does he mean by such assertions? 1/4 to 1/3 ruined? The Dr. is [a] world wide of the truth, I am happy to say. A statement so startling led me to make some inquiries of the Treas. of Yale Coll., E. C. Herrick, who replies that by far more young men in College become useful and good men, than in any other class of like standing, and in this he says he is confirmed by the opinions of others who are best able to judge. 
He "never had any difficulty in saving a young"? Then all our youths leave College upright, moral, and correct in their deportment, or the Pres. must alone be to blame for it, for surely if he could he would save them. How is the fact? I must confess that I do not see any reason for our boasting; I do not believe that our morals are a whit better than at other colleges, if as good as at some; I do not believe more young men are "saved" here than elsewhere, altho' it cannot be denied that we get more bad boys through and let them graduate than elsewhere --but merely by forbearance, not by correcting their morals in all cases. I must say there are few "hard cases" who cannot be toutched in some tender spot by the Dr. He likes a bad boy, better sometimes I think than a good one. He is the kindest of men to a desperate sinner or to a poor and miserablebeggar. Here I believe lies the secret of his influence over them. He is always ready to assist, to advise, and to forgive, and such fatherly kindness some cannot stand against and reform; all, to please him, promise to do so but alas do not hold out. This tenderness of heart, a beautiful trait in his character, often overcomes his prudence and foresight. Sighs and tears, 

especially in women, he can not withstand and this is so well known to those well-practised dissemblers about him,. that they will obtain almost any favour by a free use of them. 
But to come back to government of College, the Dr. has a thorough contempt for all "faculty meetings," he never asks nor allows an officer's opinion in matters of discipline or indeed very often in any other. He often refers back 40 years to the old-fashioned conclaves or courts when the culprit was brought up and tried with solemn formality. I never knew him in any meeting to ask the opinion of it, in more than one or two instances; hence we never hold any regular or indeed special meetings except twice a term --at the commencement of it to apportion out the Studies and at the close to receive the order of Examination and inquire as to the progress of the boys in study. 
He holds the same opinion also in reference to Trustees meetings; his doctrine is that committees, Trustees, and collections of men generally, are good-for-nothing for business, and really might well be dispensed with. I say this and should judge [it] to be his opinion from his remarks --not hints but plain assertions. 
Wednesday March 22, 1854. It should not be thought strange, however, if our discipline be a little relaxed. No man was ever more harrassed by evil.minded back-biting busybodies than our venerable Pres't. within the last 5 or 6 years. Such persecution would have broken down a younger man, but when put upon an old man of 81 years the wonder is that he now comes out of the fiery ordeal so hale and fresh --cheerful and again ready to begin his accustomed duties and to undertake liberal designs for the benefit of Union College and the progress of education. 
Visit from Franklin B. Hough M. D., the antiquarian and local Historian. Hough graduated at L. J. C. in 1843, as rough, uncouth a boy as seldom shows himself inside College walls. He was, however, like a rough.coated nut, and since that time has acquired some --a little --polish and much knowledge of Mineralogy and other branches of Nat. History. Latterly, say for 3 years, he has turned his attention cheifly to the writing of county histories of which he has brought [out?] two, of St. Lawrence and of Jefferson, with great credit to himself, but without much pecuniary profit. He has now various projects for furthering his favorite pursuit. One, to get the Legislature to subscribe for 500 copies of his Co[unty] Hlst[ories] to be brought forth one or two a year; two, to get his great meteorological work, based upon all the reports of academies and colleges to the Regents, printed; three, to get a bill passed for the proper arrangement and indexing of all the papers now lying scattered here and there in the public offices at Albany. 
He will probably succeed in none of these enterprises at the 
1107 
present. Legislatures are confessedly slow to see the advantages of properly caring for the sources of historical knowledge. Present good and convenience outweighs future advantages. Musty papers, discarded committee reports, petitions, letters, documents and what not are only fit for ignoble uses and kindling for the office fires. 
Thursday March 23, 1854. Three inches of snow during the night --two inches of water and mud during the day. Consequences wet feet, and dirty streets. In an interview with Dr. Nott today I introduced the subject of a History of Union College which has been much talked of by some. 
I. Dr., you ought to write down your recollections of men and things to serve as a contribution for the History of Un. College. 
Dr. N. (smiling) What is there to write? There is not anything worth knowing that is not already known. 
I. I differ from you there. Your reminiscences would be invaluable to the next generation. Who knows the struggles and successes of the College so well as you or the characters of its founders? 
Dr. N. Nonsense! It is small business to be raking among the dust and rubbish of the past. 
I. I wish you had kept a diary of your life, it would be interesting and a mine for the Historian of the College. 
Dr. N. I did keep a journal all my life, but [I] burnt it just before I married Urania (the present Mrs. N.) I. What a pity! Dr. N. But there is one thing that I know more about than any other man; I mean the Common School Fund in this state. I dont know but what I will write a letter about that one of these days. 
I. I hope you will, Dr. 
So completely does he live for the future! The past he regards not, the future is his world, in which are all his plans for the good of the College. I am not single in this idea; it is well known by all his friends who know and love him best. He is now working for the year 1900. Not long since, a graduate and former officer of the College said, "One of the greatest defects of Dr. N's character is that he never will finish anything. He hates to do so for then he will have nothing to do or must find something new." Or rather it may be that he is never satisfied with what he has done but wishes to work it over till it is perfect and so he never finishes it. 
I 108 
Friday March 24 1854. Cold, windy, and wintry. The police regulations of our American Colleges, perhaps all others, are a subject of great perplexity and open to criticism. They pretend to reach to the manners, morals, and religious culture of the young men and by the uninitiated are supposed to form the man and guide his feet in the ways of virtue and knowledge. No greater mistake ever fell to the lot of a fond parent. A youth going to College without well-formed habits [of] industry and virtuous principles is just as likely, perhaps more so, to fall into the snares of the tempter as if he commenced his career in some city unrestrained by parental or other proper social influence. 
The Police of our Colleges is committed in most cases to tutors lodging in the buildings with the students. In some cases the professors take a direct oversight of them, but when they do, the cares of a family and the distractions of study and scientific researches leave little time for such disagreeable duty. Of all college duties nothing has half the distaste. Now and then a Prof. is met with who conscientiously does his duty, for which he receives nothing but curses and abuse from the young men. Our College is no exception to the general rule. It is conducted on the old and, I hope, soon to be discarded plan of lodging rooms and police officers whose dutv is to watch the students but whose practice is generally to let them do as they please unless too outrageous. 
Dr. Nott, I think, has been, at least' till of late, by far the most zealous tactician and censor of all the faculty. Some have even thought that he delighted in the discipline of difficult and incorrigible cases, and that none were beyond his reach of redemption. I doubt the truth of this opinion. Whatever can be done by parental kindness and forbearance, he is able to do and has often done, but when this weapon fails he is [as] powerless as others. Union College has doubtless been unjustly aspersed with bad names and bad morals by her enemies, and as often too highly extolled as the perfection of discipline by her friends. After an acquaintance with her progress for 2 2 years I have come to the opinion that we are no worse and no better in morals and manners than other colleges with the like temptations and students. One says, "Look at Yale, Harvard, etc.; they have rebellious, outrageous attacks upon tutors, riots etc. We never have such." I grant it, and yet I see no wonderful sign of high moral attainments in all this. There may be too much rigidity in the laws of these Colleges; there may be too great a laxity in ours. Which is the worst? Which leads to the worst results? No government was ever so good that it had no rebels, no laws were ever so perfect that corrupt human nature did not break them. Our boast therefore that we have never had a serious rebellion and never 
Il0~ 
can have with out present wise management I look upon as a very empty boast and not worth mentioning. It cannot be denied by those well acquainted with our course, that we look upon the condition of College as eminently flourishing when there is nothing to disturb the smooth surface of things, no uneasy grumblings and threats of disaffected students: when not a ripple of discontent breaks upon the shore to awake our sleeping condition. All sins will be pardoned in Tutors or Profs. except that of being unpopular with the young men by their strictness or by any trivial fault or indiscretion. To be an eminent scholar, to stand at the head of his profession is all very well, but to be a good police officer, to get on pleasantly in daily intercourse with the young men and have no rupture with them is a far greater mark of fitness for his professorship. 
I have known many Tutors and Professors who have been chosen within 20 years, and in all cases the highest qualification and the.one first sought was the power to please, not talents and abilities. á 
Saturday March 25, 1854. Our regulations are thus: the three Halls in each building contain 16 rooms, each of which contains 2 lodgers; this suite of rooms, called a "section," is presided over by a tutor or Prof. whose duty is to keep good order and studious habits in his little dominion --to visit each room at least once a day and night to look to the cleanliness of it as well as to its occupants and take a general supervision of the studies of the young men of the "section." 
Our laws and customs are such as might be called "common law" that is unwritten, but sanctioned by long usage and precedent. The student is expected to obey them, yet I think they have but little binding effect on his conscience and conduct. They are bound to attend church, they go when they please. They are expected to be in their rooms at study at certain hours, to keep quiet and behave like gentlemen, they do as they please in all such cases and the penalties are seldom if ever imposed. Experience teaches that Professors will not make good Police officers and scavengers; they despise the business and think it a lowering of their dignity to watch and spy upon young men who ought to regulate their own conduct and manners. I say then, upon a moral view of the question, the old plan of lodging students in Colleges with the intention of improving or preserving their virtue and manners is a bad failure, and that no young man who can.not take care of himself ought ever to go to a College away from parental influence. Another reason may be urged for the same opinion. Great bodies of young men clustered together corrupt each other, they become clannish 
I I Io 
and exclusive, boorish and rough; their correct habits and manners 
deteriorate, and their rooms are the ahodes of disorder and filth. 
Had I ten sons to educate, no price would induce me to trust one of them to the influence alone of our coarse, dirty barracks. I say it with shame and pain, but it must be confessed that our lodgings for the young men are the most repulsive and forbidding of any college in the country and a disgrace and bye-word among strangers. The Halls are all paved with rough bricks, the walls grouted with coarse sand and lime thrown on with a whitewash brush; the stairs are unplaned 2-inch oak planks with an oak beam for a hand rail. The rooms are but little better; they are about 15 ft. square with neither closet, bedroom or the least nook for privacy. In this small space must be packed two lodgers with all their furniture --two beds, table, chairs, wardrobe, stove, and what is still more abominable, often a half cord of wood in one corner! there being no provision made for stowing away this indispensable article in sheds or outbuildings. 
Sunday March 26, 1854. Why, it may be asked, such restricted and mean lodging for the student? 1. If made better, they will be defaced and abused. A false idea: the contrary is generally true except by savages. 2. If they have the convenience of a closet or bedroom, it would prove too often a hiding place for improper visitors or articles. Therefore treat them as you do the prisoners, by giving them 4 plain unbroken walls. 
Again, what is the religious influence of College? I certainly cannot say it is good. I do not mean to say that the faculty exercise a positively deleterious influence, neither do I see that they do much in favour of religion. We have prayers in a place called Chapel night and morning which is nearly all the ostensible religious training the young men get, except it be from each other and from the churches in town. Here again, I do not know as we are more culpable than other Colleges of like condition. We are called "Botany Bay" and indeed in some respects I believe they may be all Botany Bays with a few exceptions. Colleges in the country and with a moderate number of young men oftener exert a more salutary influence than our large, city colleges. Amherst has often been blest with revivals of religion. Williams in all this region has an exellent character for morals, being far from the seductions of a city and among a religious and virtuous community. Union has had one revival within my remembrance, viz. in 1838 when Rev. Jacob Knapp preached in the city for S or 6 weeks. I think some 30 or 40 were then converted, of whom several became ministers of the gospel. 
I l l l 
Cold, windy, blustering March weather. Heard Rev. Horace Day in Baptist Church --missionary sermon. This evening he announces a Nebraska sermon, the now absorbing question of the country. 
Monday March 27, 1854. Weather ditto.Busy with last experiments in 
Chem. --the Oxy-hydrogen Blowpipe. 
Faculty meeting at five-to-six. Present: President Nott, V.P. Hickok. Profs. Foster, Jackson, Gillespie, Peissner, Newman, Pearson. Absent: Prof. R Proudfit, Prof. John Nott, L. Amoreux, Lewis. 
Discussion about Dr. Nott's new plan for graduating students in studies. He makes 7 grades thus: Pre-eminent #, Prime +, Very good 5, Good 4, Sustained 3, Barely sustained 2, Not Sustained 1. 
Prime and Pre-eminent scholars are to be prize scholars, hereafter, but there are to be more [none?] this term for two reasons. 1. Because there is no provision yet made for the payment of prizes; and 2. Because they are to have a more thorough, and private examination than the others, called the Superior Examination. The "S" is our old "100," the# and +are both above the "100." These"#+" men are to be in reality and truly superior to the majority of the class in all respects and in all studies, talents, acquirements morals &c. Great care must be taken in the graduations because the # & + marks will always entitle the holder to a prize which may be taken or not; nevertheless the honor will be bestowed. The usual reading of the Roll of Students and discussion of standing progress was omitted. 
Discussion on the Public Examinations to close the term. It was confessed that we have fallen off much in them of late --that they are necessary and should be restored to their wonted efficiency. More Examiners of note from abroad are necessary. The following Order of Examination was then read and approved: 
Third term ending 28th and29th March 
Freshmen: Algebra, Prof. Foster; Latin, Newman; Greek, Lewis. 
Sophomore Class: French, Mr. Peissner; Draughting, Prof. Gillespie; 
Artof Thinking, L'Amoreux; Greek, Lewis; Latin, Newman; Algebra, d[itt]o. 
Juniors: Calculus, Prof. Jackson; Mechanics, 1st Div., Foster; Chem. 2nd [Div.], Pearson; Mechanics 2nd [Div], Foster; Chem. 1st [Div] Pearson; Greek, Lewis; German, Peissner. 
Seniors: Moral Philosophy, Prof. Hickok; Civil Engineering, Gillespie; Astronomy 1st Div., Jackson; d[itt]o 2d Div., d[itt]o. Karnes, President. 
Il lv 
Dr. Nott. "Many years ago I remember Dr. John Mason took charge of Columbia College and came up to talk with me about management of it. He said, 'We have resolved to be strict, we are going to admit no excuse; every boy must come up to the mark.' I told him he would'nt succeed. 'Yes, we shall,' said he, 'we have resolved upon it.' Some time after I asked him how he succeeded. 'An utter failure, an utter failure!' said he in his deep, impressive manner.' There is no use of trying to make boys better than human nature will allow; you must take them as weak, erring mortals, do the best you can, and pass by their failings." 
Tuesday March 28, 1854. Weather ditto only rather more so, accompanied 
with clouds of dust. 
Commenced Examinations today. No Examiners. 
One of those ridiculous squa[b]bles which happen as often in College as elsewhere came off last week, ending in nothing but ill-feeling. Hungerford and Karcher, two Juniors boarding at the same table, both claimed the contents of the milk pitcher; H. got it and K. called hard names in his anger. H. threatened to slap him, K. dared him to do it; both retired to the street where H. fulfilled his promise and K. departed for the Police Magistrate and procured a writ for assault and battery. On Saturday the trial was to have come on but Def[endant] appeared with his counsel and witnesses and, not finding Plantiff, retired claiming the case by default. So it ends. 
[Wednesday] March 29, 1854. Weather ditto, --a little less severe, nights cold, clear and still. 
Examinations continued and nearly closed tonight. No examiners but Rev. Messrs Day, Bapt., and Duryea, 2d Dutch Refd. Ch. in the city. Quite unsatisfactory to go through go thro' the form, all to ourselves. 
Collegiate education has of late years become a prolific subject for discussion from the platform and in the newspapers. The demand for some change in our old stereotyped courses of study has been so loud and so frequent that even those colleges oldest and least hopeful of progress have finally given way to the popular sentiment and we see the narrow antiquated notions of our grandfathers giving place to more enlarged and practical views of education. "People's Colleges," "Polytechnic Schools" and "Manual Labor Institutions," in which those sciences are taught having an every-day application to the business of life, engross the popular favor and patronage; whilst the dead languages are left to the Theologian and bookworm and the living dialects are taught in their place. 
None of our best colleges are now without their "Schools of Arts"; and these are their cheif hope against threatened decay and ruin. Harvard, Yale, Dartmouth, Brown and Amherst are well known advocates of this 
I 113 
reformation. But none probably has profited so much in increase of numbers and in popularity as the latter. The article in Mondays Tribune gives a sufficient proof of this statement and also of the propriety of widely advertising the change. 
No one who reads that can fail to see that the "New System" established in Brown in 1850 has been hailed with applause throughout New England and is now on its sure road to success --an object of rivalry and imitation. So far there is but one opinion but when the merit of the invention is to be awarded, I decidedly deny it to Brown or to its respected President. For more than 30 years the "New System" has been taught at Union in spirit and in fact: and of the 4000 young men who have been educated there under the eye [ofJ its venerable and well known Pres. more than one third have never learned Latin or Greek enough to save a Freshman from the Dunce's block. Modern and living languages have been a substitute. There has been no compulsory course of study, but the young men have been perfectly free to choose such sciences and such languages as [their] tastes or contemplated business in life dictated. Those purposing to study Theology have mostly chosen the "Classical Course." Those looking forward to Law or Medicine, Agriculture, M.an ufacturing or Engineering have pursued the "Scientific," "University" or "Engineering Course" in which there are modern languages, Math, Physical, and Natural sciences. The "New System" of Brown in its details doubtless differs from the "Old System" of Union, but as we have given to her a president, justly successful and esteemed, so we rejoice that she has adopted the spirit of our "system" and made it so popular and well known in New England. 
Thursday March 30, 1854. Weather relenting a little, the furious March winds are subsiding and spring is conquering winter. Students gone and doors locked. Halls cold, damp, and lonely. 
As I have said before, the Profs. and Tutors are the Police officers. Duties are as follows: Besides keeping good order and seeing that the students are in their rooms and at study in the hours set apart for that purpose, they call upon all delinquents for reasons or excuses for absences from the daily exercises of College; each building is divided into 3 Halls or "Sections," each of which has its officer, and when the excuses are rendered they are written down and returned to the Register to be recorded and sent to the parent at the close of the term. 
The great defect of this system of marking and reporting absences is the imperfect manner in which it is performed by the officers: errors arise; difference in strictness is observed; hence hard feelings among the young against this or that officer. Until this last term, for many years we have used a kind [of] modification of the West Point system of graduation of students in conduct, attendance, and attainment in each of the 3 daily 
l 114 
studies of the term; 100 was the maximum attainment in each or 300 in all. We have now a new system proposed by the President, shown a few days since; like a thousand and one experiments which have been tried in everything at Un. Coll. it will be "tinkered" and altered and amended till it will be among the things that were. 
All students of Coll. must take at least 3 daily recitations and as many more as he please; some attend 6 recitations. The regular hours for recitation, when it is expected all the College will be engaged in some exercise, are: 1st, Immediately before breakfast, say as soon as one can well see in winter and at 7 oclock in summer. 2. 11 o'clock the year through. 3. from 3 to 4 in the afternoon according to the season. Chapel prayers are: 1st, the first exercise thro' the year, and the last of the day, closing the public exercises at from 4 to 5 o'clock according to the length of the day. The most objectionable of all these hours for recitation is the early morning hour before breakfast which in winter is sometimes not taken tilr nearly 9 o'clock; as a consequence, this recitation is cheerless and unpalatable; a gnawing stomach and a hungry headache are generally accompanied by sour looks, cross answers, want of interest in the exercise. A better arrangement would be to go to breakfast immediately after morning prayers and to return to the recitation room immediately from breakfast. Long-established customs and habits, however, are difficult to alter, especially with old men; we shall probably never change under the present administration. 
Nearly all our instructions are imparted by recitations from text books, illustrated by experiments, diagrams, maps and familiar remarks by the Professor. Our recitation rooms are small and ill ventilated except in the "New Phil[osophy] Hall," which two years ago was erected on purpose for the Chem. and Phil. departments; most of the others are only makeshifts. It would seem that, in the magnificient plan of Remay [Ramee] for our College. edifices, no provisions were specially made for lectures and recitations; the main object seems to have been to present a sym[m]etrical and curious collection of great palace-looking buildings from the outside whilst the interior must conform by some means with the exterior. 
The great "Peper box" in the center --a circular Pantheon-like structure --is to be 80 feet in diameter and I dont know how many feet high. This is to be used for a chapel for the students (and would easily accommadate at least 1500 to 2000!!) and for a library. A worse form for the ... 
Friday March 31, 1854 ... .intended purpose could not be devised. It makes a pretty picture, nothing more. Regulations for church are that all students shall attend somewhere, at his option or the request of his parent; practice is much at variance with these wise rules and the penalty never applied. 

Punishments: These are few and never public; expulsions, as the term is used at some colleges, were long since disused and certainly for wise reasons; and yet with all our boasted management and superiority of discipline we still cling to one of the most barbarous usages among Colleges altho' it is generally deprecated by the whole faculty. I mean the placing a young man expelled or leaving another college without dismission, under the law of excomcomunication throughout the whole sisterhood of colleges. The custom tho' general is unjust, cruel, and hurtful; it depresses and extinguishes all hopes of amendment and success. A young man unsuccessful in one college may among new associates resolve upon amendment in another if permitted to enter. The door however is shut in his face; he receives no sympathy where he has a right to expect it. 
Why this mischeivous, masonic consent, to kill or extinguish the hopes of a poor erring youth? I believe it not only monstrous in principle but in fact unlawful: it is a conspiracy to punish a culprit, among 100 institutions, whose crime if any has only been committed against one; and I verily believe a young of otherwise unimpeachable character and respectable attainments might legally demand a degree with his classmates from a board of trustees. I have a dozen times urged our President, with others, to take the final step and break loose from this iniquitous custom: but courtesy to other colleges, and the odium we should receive, are sufficient to overcome just and right convictions. It will come,, however, in time. 
Saturday April 1, 1854. Fine April weather, moderate and unwinterish. 
I. (to Dr. N.) Have you heard of the Gov[ernor's] Veto of the Maine Liquor Law? 
Dr. N. 0 yes, I knew he was going to veto it --read it some days ago and suggested some alterations. I am glad he has done it! The law had some bad things in it that would have made it unpopular and put back the Temperance question some years. The Temperance people have been lukewarm for years agone; but now they have awakened all at once and instead of drawing the people after them they are trying to drive them. They ought to have gone on a year or two longer before trying the law. In the end they will see this veto was a good thing for them; it has saved them a fall perhaps. 
Yesterday --Thursday, I should say--in Albany, saw E. C. Delavan. He. I am now on my way up to the Capitol to see Governor Seymour about his decision on the "Maine Law." I am afraid he will veto it. 
I. Politics rule everything here. 
E.C.D.Yes, politicians on both parties dont like the bill; the Democrats want to throw it on to the Whigs and the latter reciprocate the favor. They both fear November election; some "rummy" votes may be lost. I. 
IIIb 
Can't the temperance men muster a 2/3 vote in the Legislature? 
E.C.D.
Perhaps so, tho' I fear not. 

I. 
Then we must fight another year for it. 


This P. M. (Saturday) great cannon firing and rejoicing among the liquor sellers over the Gov's veto; friends of the law "down in the mouth." I hear that 165 guns were fired in Albany --certainly as many here. But a celebration more in keeping was a decently dressed old gentleman coming up Union Street this evening so drunk that he could hardly keep on his legs. Man, poor human nature! 
Sunday April 2, 1854. Weather moderate. Attended Baptist Church twice. The church accommadations of the city are hardly sufficient for the population. We have no more than we had twenty yrs. ago, the numbers being a half greater. The 2d Dutch Ch., lately formed, a feeble body, takes the house of the defunct Cameronian Ch. and therefore gives no increase. The clergymen now ministering in the city are: 1. Mr. Seelye of the 1st Dutch Refd. Ch., a nephew of Vice Pres. Hickok, and from Ct.; he is a young man of good talents. 2. Mr. Duryea, 2d Dutch Ch., using the old Cameronian house in Maiden Lane. 3. Rev. Wm. Paine (Epis. Church) from Conn. some years since. 5. Rev. J. Trumbull Backus D. D., Pres. Church, the oldest pastor in the city, now settled here nearly 20 years, his 1st settlement. 6. Rev. Mr. Starks, Methodist. There is also a small Germ[an] Methodist Church in Jay Street near Union whose pastor's name I know not, and lately a Germ. Lutheran minister has come to the city and holds service in some room. Of late years the German population has much increased, perhaps faster in this neighborhood than the Irish emigrant. 7. Mr. ________ , the Catholic Priest. This last fall their house of worship has been much enlarged and decorated with a tall spire. It stands in Franklin St. Rev. Horace Day, Bapt., 
III7 
a young unmarrfied man, his first settlement. In 1852 the present church edifice was erected in Union Street betw[een] Maiden Lane and Fonda St. at a cost of about $9000. The Lecture Room only is finished and $1510 used; $3000 will be needed to complete it. The congr[egation] is free from debt and in flourishing condition. The Universalists have a small Chapel occupied occasionally. and the blacks are similarly provided for. This, I think, comprises all our churches and meeting houses in the city. The Dutch and the Presbyterians have the largest and most wealthy congregations. The former is the oldest, and the Espicopalian next. 
Monday April 3, 1854. A pleasant April day. 
Busy during the closing up the business of the last month. At college library at one o'clock as usual to accommadate students staying in town. The Library on account of its position in the Old West College --the first Coll. building erected --far from the present college site, is but little used. It is a poor affair and unworthy of a college of 60 years of age. Books have not been thought a very necessary part of a college apparatus by our powers-that -be. Bishop Potter did more for it during the last few years of his sojourn here than any other person ever did. 
Hudson Tuesday April 4, 1854. Fine weather. Started at 8 o'clock for Hudson with wife, Henry and John to visit bro.-in-law Magoun and my sister. Spent a couple of hours in Albany and arrived in H. at 12 1/2 o'clock. All well. Spent the P. M. in lounging at Wm. W. Hannah's jewelry shop and Wynkoop's bookstore. From the former received some old books and mss. of some interest --a brief account of England by counties with maps of each printed, I should judge, about 1600; an anonymous poem printed in Boston, 1772, I should judge, on the occasion of the massacre, apparently an ironical production. 
Of mss., several original letters of each: Hopkins, the only Admiral the U.S. or rather Colonies ever had, directed to Capt. Joseph Olney of Providence, who seems to have been a commander of a government vessel and of a privateer. He was the father~in-law of Hon. Ezekiel Gilbert of Hudson and I suspect resided there the latter part of his life, from some notices of him found in an old "Hudson Gazette." 
Wednesday April 5, 1854. Pleasant and warm, genial air. Started after breakfast for the printing office of Wm. B. Stoddard. He is the son of Ashbel Stoddard who started the first newspaper in H. in 1785 and continued it till 1803. It was called the "Hudson Gazette," and the first year was printed by Charles R. Webster and Stoddard; at the end of the year Webster withdrew and settled in Albany where for many years he published the "Albany [?]". I suspect that Webster was not in Hudson himself, for I find in "Munsell's" that he commenced the newspaper in A in 17 83 or -4. It seems probable therefore that he only permitted his name to be used for some private reason only known to himself and partners. Stoddard the elder lived till about 1840. S., the younger, about 1823 commenced the "Rural Repository," a magazine of stories and light reading which he continued for 27 years --a long time for so flimsy a publication: Its cheif merit is the local news, deaths and marriages &c. Hudson S. seems now to be an ... 
Thursday April 6, 1854 ... .inefficient, broken-down man, discouraged and without energy. He does little in his office but print hand-bills and such little jobs. The object of my call was to find if possible a set of the "Gazette" of his father, for the purpose of culling some facts of use in writing a History of H[udson] --found 10 vols. in good condition and entire, viz. 1785-6-7-8 and 1792-3-4-5-6-7; the others are lost. 
Both the Stoddards seem to have been printers and nothing else. The Gazette has scarcely anything original in it by the editor. Local facts are never noticed; few deaths or marriages; elections of city offices and the arrival and departure of vessels weekly. 
Friday April 7, 1854. Something can be learned from the advertisements respecting the business and activity of. the city in its growth. The most curious feature in this last department of the paper is the great number of advts. of runaway negro[e]s and wives, stray or stolen horses and cattle, and private complaints and charges full of bitter spite and hard names. The original pol[itical] articles are long, prosy and dull; the moral pieces are sophomorical. Still here is all that we have for a minute and full history of the times (70 yrs. ago). In three days and nights I have copied some 225 pp. in ms. from those 10 vols. which will perhaps some day be of some account in making up the annals of the city. 
Schenectady Saturday April 8, 1854. A beautiful, bright, sunny day. Started at 1.30 for home, spent an hour in Albany and arrived about 4 1/2 o'clock. Found all well except Willie who has a cold and cough. 
I I I J 
Sunday April 9, 1854. Fair, pleasant, sunny weather. Heard Rev. J. T .. Backus in the Presbyterian church. 
Union College Monday April 10, 1854. Weather rainy, with sleet from N.E. All day busy in office upon accounts. One o'clock at Library to deliver books. Cold, foggy, driz[z]ly, unpleasant. 
Tuesday April 11, 1854. Weather quite opposite of yesterday. In Treas. Office much of the day till 5 o'clock. All financial matters of any importance relating to College are now by late resolutions of the Trustees to be submitted to the decision of the Financial Committee. For some 30 years previously the President had plenary and unlimited powers in such matters until laid down by himself not long since and accepted by the Board. Like all other Colleges, Un. C. has for time out of mind beená trammelled with debts, cramped for income to meet current expenses. For many years she spent not less than $2000 of her permanent investments yearly, and has now by the most rigid economy the greatest difficulty to make both ends of the year meet without running into debt. What's to be done is now the question! Dr. Nott's donation will not be immediately available; as the Board has ordered nothing to be expended beyond the income, when that is gone the wheels must stop. 
Wednesday April 12, 1954. This "sailing so near to the wind" makes it exceedingly difficult for the Treasurer to know what he can spend, where retrench or when to curtail. He is kept in continual perplexity and fear with regard to the future. He is harrassed with calls for this and for that to be done and called niggardl[y] and parsimonious when he is obliged to say no. Everything is wanted --and nothing to do it with. 
Thursday April 13, 1854. Raw April day, neither winter nor spring but a hybrid of both. Willard left town this morning for N. Y. on business for Dr. Nott. Being alone, am necessarily confined to the office. A call from one Dygert of Albany who wants some favor in reference to W. Armstrong's Ho[tel] and lot, the mortgage on which I am foreclosing for nonpayment. Wants to b[u]y the property with an understanding that $1200 of purchase money is to remain in B[onds] and Mortlgage] on the same. Told him I would promise nothing as others had asked the same favor and been denied. Nine o'clock P. M., one calling himself Van Eps from Albany called on the same business, denouncing Dygert as a rascal and everything but an honest man; professing great compassion for Mrs. Armstrong, who is to lose her property, and asking a stay of sale for 30 days. I fear they are all on a par --each looking to his own interest and desiring to get the 

property at half its value. 
Friday April 14, 1854. Cold, raw, north wind with signs of snow. Dr. N. came home last night from N. Y. where he has been since the term closed. Well and hearty for a man of 82 nearly. 
Dr. N. "Have you read those diplomatic letters between Russia and Great Britain?" 
I. Only two of them. 
Dr. N. "They disclose a most depraved and wicked diplomacy; they make me ashamed of my kind --to see such want of principle. Youman's book ( on Alcohol) is really a good book but he has spoiled its influence upon drinkers by putting in a lecture on intemperance at the end. He ought to have made and left it a purely scientific work --his readers would have drawn their own inferences as to intemperance." 
Saturday April 15, 1854. During the night there fell 8 to 9 in. of snow. Altho' not cold today, nature looks as wintry as at any time during the last 4 months. To Albany this morning at 10 o'clock to see about the Armstrong foreclosure; called on Bradford R. Wood, one of the Trustees, for advice -.decided to postpone the sale to May 15 next that an opportunity might be given to those most interested to buy the property. Met M. Wendell L'Amoreux who appears to be without business and any means to kill time except to gossip about town --an agreeable chatty, amiable, well-informed but apparently aimless man, wanting in decided, active habits. A man who lives without an object and a profession feels his time too much for him. 
Home at 12 oclock. Met in the coach Frederic W. Seward, assistant editor of Evening Journal, an agreeable, modest, unassuming young man, well-informed especially in the politics of his party. He promises me the portraits of his father, published with his works. 
P.M. in Treas. Office, cold and alone. Two visitors today from Troy, old school mates of wife, Mrs. Clark and Mrs. Upham. 
Sunday April 16, 1854. To church in A.M. with our party at Pres. Church. Mr. Backus in the pulpit. It was announced this morning that Mr. Resolved Givens, age 88, died between 7 and 8 o'clock sitting in his chair, without a struggle or any warning. He has been a somewhat remarkable man for health, vigor, and activity. To the day of his death his health was unabated, appetite good, cheerful, and interested in the affairs around him. For many 
I I~ I 
years he was the host of the hotel owned by him and bearing his name. He leaves one son, William, unmarried and a granddaughter. 
P.M. to the Episcopal Ch. with Mrs. Clark and Mrs. Upham. For some weeks Mr. Paine has officiated but little on account of ill health. Mr. Seeley, a graduate of U. C. some 4 or 5 years since, preached; much pleased with his manner and the matter of his discourse. Within a few months since last in the Epis. Ch. I observe a change about the pulpit which was formerly thus 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
a regular old-fashioned box like other churches; now it is entirely changed. The deská has disappeared; the steps and door are gone and the whole affair bears another aspect, something like this 
[DRAWING HERE] 
What this change forbodes I know not. I observe also that in the confession or creed the bowing the head to the name of Jesus is by far more conspicuous than I ever observed it before. 
Monday April 17, 1854. A furious storm has raged all day from the No. East accompanied with a damp heavy snow which sticks to everything, completely mantles every tree, fence, and house in white. At night the depth, with the remains of Saturday's fall was 15 inches --more by far than we had at any one time during the past winter. All day in the Treas. Office dull, dreary, and lonely. 
Tuesday April18, 1854. A warm sun and mild atmosphere has dissipated most of the snow. Mrs. C[lark] and U[pham] left today at 4 o'clock for home in Troy. All day in Treas. Office. 
Wednesday April 19, 1854. Warm and pleasant above, but dirty, wet and execrable under foot. 
Thursday April 20, 1854. Weather fine. Mr. Willard (acting Register) returned from N. Y. last night. 
Friday April 21, 1854. Wrote to Messrs. Wood, Cochrane and Backus, Trustees of U. C., notifying them of their appointment in Dec. last as committee to cooperate with the Graduates Committee in making arrangements for the Jubilee next July in honor of Dr. Nott. Three committees have been appointed to act in this matter: 1, by the graduates last Commencement; 2, by the Trustees at their meeting Dec. 28, '53; and 3, by Faculty in March last. The consequence is that nothing is done. One com[mittee] is waiting for the other to act. The question is anxiously asked where $2000 is to come from to pay for the dinner &c. College has no means for such an expenditure, being hardly able to meet current expenses. It is doubtful whether a quarter of the sum could be raised by the Graduates for such a purpose. Must Dr. N. pay for his own Jubilee? That would be unseemly and a shame to be allowed, and yet quite in keeping with a late transaction. 

Saturday April 22, 1854. A few years since a resolution was passed by certain of our graduates to ask Dr. N. to sit for a full-length portrait of himself as a mark of respect and honor --which picture was in due time painted by Inman of N.Y. and hung in the College Museum. Time passed on and Mr. I. wanted his $1000 for the picture. Nobody was responsible for the order, no money had been provided, and one gentleman refer[r]ed him to another, but all in vain. The matter stood in this state when I[nman] died. His executors sued certain members of the committee; costs and interest had accrued; and finally to end the farce Dr. N. himself came forward and paid for his own portrait which the Grad. had voted the College. This Jubilee is likely to end in the same manner. The graduates will bestow great honor upon the Venerable President who will in the end be obliged to "foot the bills." 
Such is our want of foresight, system and methods; We can vote and resolve as well as any people on earth but nothing comes of it but so much breath spent in vain. It would please Dr. N. better and be more in accordance with our necessities to have [no] tom-fooleries about the occasion, no dinner, toasts, nor speeches but a pleasant reunion at some public room of sufficient dimensions where he could receive the congratulations of friends and former pupils, where formal speeches would give place to social chat and kindly intercourse. 
Sunday April 23, 1854. Beautiful day; the precursor of spring. 
To the Baptist Ch. in A.M. where heard Rev. Mr. Seelye of the Dutch Refd. Church --a good sermon. In the P. M. heard Mr. Backus at Pres. Church. Coming out Dr. Nott remarked, "That is the best sermon I ever heard Backus preach." It was more pointed, plain, simple to be understood than he usually delivers. The death of Harmanns Van Slyck was announced from the pulpit. He is an old citizen and has, so long as I have known him, 
(113 
been a constable or sheriffs deputy, somewhat noted for his squint-eyed, sinister countenance and wicked look altho' I never heard that this was a fair criterion on his character. 
Monday April 24 1854. At 8 o'clock to Albany with wife to see Dr. Payne, Hom[eopathic] Phys[ician], who gave her medicine. In Fisk and Little's book store met Dr. Huntington. Saw Wm. A. Jackson and Dexter Reynolds. Bought of Gray and Sprague the "Congregational Year Book for 1854" and a pocket map of Mass. Gadded and shopped till 12 and home to dinner. P. M. answered letters in Treas. office and priced lots on Romeyn Street (between Troy R.R. and North Road) which are now in some demand for building. Price $300 --3 3 ft. x 163 ft. Home to tea and writing till 11 o'clock, then to bed. 
Tuesday April 25, 1854. Fine, warm, spring day. To the office a little after 8 o'clock. Found Dr. Nott and wife had started again for New York. At 10 o'clock to Dr. Backus' study to attend a meeting of the resident Trustees and Faculty for the purpose of devising the m~ans and ways of celebrating the 50th anniversary of Dr. Nott's Presidency. There were present: Hon. A. 
C. Paige, Rev. Dr. Backus, and Clark B. Cochran Esqr. of the Trustees and Dr. Hickok, Dr. Lewis, Dr. Jackson, Prof. Foster and self of the faculty. Dr. Backus stated the object of the meeting --said the first thing to be determined was how the money was to be raised for the celebration; if a dinner was to be served, thought the expence would reach $2,500, that there were but three ways of obtaining the requisite funds: 1. from College 
2. by subscription among the graduates and 3. by selling dinner tickets; that the 1st method he learned was quite out of the question. The 2d he thought impracticable and the 3d unwise and improper. He therefore thought it quite as well to forgo a sensual feast and substitute something less expensive and more intellectual. Judge Paige said that in the first place the income of the College was hardly sufficient now to pay the inadequate salaries of the Professors. 2d That by a vote of the Trustees the principal could not be toutched. 3d That we have no more now than enough to fill the state funds, therefore it was quite impossible for College to meet any such extraordinary expense. He seconded Dr. B's proposition for a less costly intellectual entertainment. Dr. Hickok: the Graduates expect a celebration, the public expect it, it will injure College if we do not have it; doubted also the expediency of having a public dinner urider all the circumstances, and rather would substitute a literary festivity --not necessary to have a table and toasts; the two speeches of Seward and Campbell will occupy a good part of the day. Leaving out the dinner, the expence need not exceed $600. College perhaps might might raise apart, 
(I 2Lf.
Graduates might raise some, and Dr. N. perhaps would give the balance. Better make it a literary festival and have it in the Church. Mr. Cochran: Doubted whether it was necessary or expedient to support all who came and as long as they choose to stay, --it would hardly be expected. Dr. Jackson: Thought it quite desirable to have a, dinner, a place where the Grad[uates] could have an interchange of feeling and make speeches; they would expect it and be disappointed without it; that if the Trustees did not intend to provide such entertainment for their guests they ought not to have invited them; it would be very difficult now to back out. Dr. B: The first movement came from the Grad[uates] out of town, at last Com.mencement Dinner, and the Trustees only reiterated what the Grad. had said and appointed a committee to cooperate with them, not to take the lead. Judge P: You know, Prof. J., that some folks vote without regard to consequences. The resolutions were presented to the Trustees and voted upon without any foresight as to the ways and means. They felt rich,.having received Dr. N's trust deed, and thought they had the property in hand and could do what they pleased with it. The fact is, if we had every cent of it in cash, it is so tied up that we could spend none of it for such purposes as this, but more than all this, we shall have no immediate income from it at present unless it be from about $40,000 of B[ond]s and M[ortgage]s Mr. Cochran proposed to appoint a com[mittee] of those present to correspond with the Grad. Com. in N. Y. for the purpose of settling upon an early day for a general meet[ing] of the 3 committees of Trustees, Grad[uates] and Faculty in Albany, at which time it was hoped something definite might be settled for the celebration. Messrs. Cochrane, Jackson, and Hickok appointed; the Com. adjourned. 
Wednesday April 6, 1854. A right April day --rain and shine alternately accompanied in the evening with thunder and lightning. Warm, the grass begins show its green color and the buds to open. 10 o'clock to Albany to pay $1600 to the Comptroller on a bond [of?] the state by Un. College. Saw Prof. T. Romeyn Beck ,Sec. of the Regents of the Univ. about II vols. of "Hudson Gazette" which I furnished for the State Library. It commences with 1785 and ends 1797, wanting 2 Vols. and a few odd numbers. 
Wants other old papers "Balance", "Bee" &c. Directories, pamphlets, &c&c., promised to supply all I could obtain. Home at 12 3/4 oclock. Dinner and to Treas. office at work evening, writing letters cheifly of Genealogical matters. To bed early. 
P.S. Vice Pres. Hickok this P. M. gave me an outline of his plan for a 

celebration at Commencement with small cost. 1. The probable number of Grad. who will attend is 600. 2. Lodging and meals for such to be provided among the citizens and for none others. 3. Only those who write that they will come are to be look[ed] after. 4. No Commencement dinner because no room in town will accommadate such numbers. 5. The speeches congratulatory and otherwise to be in the church, to which Dr. Nott will reply. The whole cost need not be over $400, of which sum College can raise a part--the rest by ____________ how? 
Thursday April 27, 1854. Cold and dreary. Dr. Nott returned last evening from N. Y. Making the usual preparations for opening the term: sweeping, glass-setting, white-washing, moving furniture &c. Four or 5 tyros in examination for entrance to college, the rush not great; it cannot be denied that we have very much lost the confidence of the public; 6 or 8 years of 
big and little lying mixed with some truth has pretty well poisened the minds of the public and time and truth can alone change them. I hope we have toutched bottom and shall now rise; but it is not probable that we shall go up faster than we went down. 
Prof. Gillespie arrived from New York full of his new book now in press, a work on surveying. Prof. Newman moving into so[uth] end of No. College which since Mr. Reed's resignation has been unoccupied. Bye the bye, what changes have 25 yrs. made in the occupants of these Profs. Houses! No. end of No. College was originally occupied, I am told, by Prof. McAuley who superintended the building of the same. Prof. Joel B. Nott, I think, next, or Prof. Potter, lastly Prof. Jackson. So. end No. College 22 yrs ago was occupied by Prof. Joslin; Prof. Reed succeeded, now Newman. No. end of So. College has always been occupied by the President till of late when he moved back into the Collonade ho[use] and Prof. Potter took the front ho[use]. On Prof. Potter's leaving, Dr. N. reoccupied it, then moved back again to Collonade ho[use] and Prof. Hickok took the Pres. Ho[use]. So. end, So. College was occupied by Prof. Yates when I came here in 1831, who had just before succeeded Dr. Proudfit. On Prof Y. resigning and death, Dr. Lewis took it. 
Friday April 28, 1854. Cold, rainy, snowy, sleety, dismal, melancholy day. Term opened with evening prayers. But few old or new students here. Our 

entrances are nearly all "University students," for "engineering course." But few enter in full and good standing and pursue a thorough classical course. Young men study mostly what will be of immediate use in the active business of life, and shun the old routine. All day in office. 
Five o'clock, Faculty meeting. Present: President Nott, Vice P. Hickok. Profs. Lewis, Gillespie, Jackson, John Nott, Peissner, Newman, Pearson who acted as Secretary. (These fac. meetings are merely informal chatty conferences for the purpose of hearing what orders the Pres. has to give to the Profs; held twice a term, beginning and end.) The "course of study" having been made out by Prof. Gillespie, who submitted it to the Pres. for his approval, is now read to the fac. for their approval(?). 
Then the Pres't. directs that Profs. must report absences from "prayers" daily at Register's office; but all bad, unstudious straying boys to him (the Pres.) once a week at least --must'nt let them go longer than this. Report upon conduct as well as studies every week; not once in 5 or 6, then it gets to be an old story; parents find fault that their sons misconduct has not been told them, and the evil goes uncorrected. 
Dr. Lewis. Must they go to church twice a Sabbath or will once do? 
Dr. N. Here is a difficulty; we belong to different denominations. I dont like our plan but hav'nt found out any thing better. We must do the best we can to make them attend regularly. 
Dr. H. I have found they attend better than I expected. 
Prof. G. Dont they lie in saying how many times they attend ch.? 
Dr. J. Not one in my section lied last term about going to church. 
Dr. N. Our plan of calling upon the boys to tell how often they attend Ch. makes them go more than they otherwise would. 
Dr. J. They go twice as much. 
Prof. N. My boys asked whether absences from ch. was counted on their bill. Dr. N. See that the boys have wood this cold wet weather, otherwise they will set sick. Prof. J. There's not a stick of dry wood in town; I've tried to get some 
a fortnight. 
Prof. G. Rody Martin has got some green wood, but 'twont burn. 
Prof. N. I can burn green wood in my stove. &c&c&c&c&c. and adjourned. That's a pretty report. 
Saturday April 29, 1854. Rain all day from the N.E. The young men come in slowly. Busy all day in Treas. office preparing to balance the books for the last 10 mos. that the Finance Committee may learn the state of expenditures and income; find tonight that we need $3008. to meet the payment of salaries to become due on Monday, May 1, whilst the income to 

be expected in all that month may be in the neighborhood of $2000. Ten 

mos. ago my estimate of the deficiency for the year was $1000, I think, and present appearances will justify my opinion. With the resolutions of the Trustees to spend nothing but income in force, I see no way from the difficulty but more income or less expenditure. How to accomplish either seems impossible. What prevents sympathy in the case or causes wonder is that U. C. should have received lately from the Pres. $600,000 and now cannot pay its Profs. That great sum unfortunately has not been received and will be a long time coming. In the mean[time] the "hoard will starve on shavings." 
Sunday April 30, 1854. Rain still all day --this is the 3d day of almost incessant pouring. A flood must follow. To Baptist Ch. in A. M. Mr. Day preached. 
Monday May 1, 1854. Today rain ceased but the effects are still very visible in the swollen Mohawk with its flood: wood, fences, trees etc. It is said to have risen to 16 feet above low-water mark. In Albany the river reached Broadway and has done immense damage to all business upon the docks. No mail today from N. Y. -no trains thro' from N. Y. 
Tuesday, May 2, 1854. Clear and fine yesterday and part of today, more indications of rain towards night when it again began to pour. No trains from N. Y. All communication with the city is by steamboats. No regular mails. From all directions dire news of floods and damage is heard. Railroad and telegraphs are entirely deranged, and in some places sad loss of life. Just beginning to get under way with classes --much moving to and fro, and great difficulty to get all conflicting interests and feeling harmonized. 
Wednesday May 3, 1854. Cool but comfortable weather --tonight rain again. The dullness of our Dutch town is occasionally disturbed by by a railroad accident, or a drowned boy or a ripple of scandal which, however to be deplored, is certainly a relief to the usual stagnation. 
A case of the latter kind now excites all classes. The suffering party or rather parties, for both in his way have been most unfortunate, were Dr. 
M. an aged man of say 60, member of the Dutch { Ch.] and hitherto highly esteemed and his young house maid, who has served him quite alone since the death of his wife more than a year since. She became pregnant and to hide the deed was sent to Troy to be delivered in secret. Unfortunately her case proved to be one of extra-uterine conception and the poor girl died in the operation. So uncommon a case excited curiosity and suspicion; not less than three coroners inquests were held and, altho' no violence was proved, yet the who[le] mystery because divulged and poor Dr. M. is most scandalously talked about as the cause of all the mishap. Altha' nothing has been proved to implicate him, yet public opinion generally fixes an offence upon him. 

Thursday May 4, 1854. The breaks in the railroads by the late flood are in many cases unmended; betw. this and N. Y. the communication by R.R. has been quite irregular and the delays of mails and papers quite vexatious. It will yet be some days before all will be right again, perhaps not till Monday next when the new summer arrangement goes into effect. 
Friday May 5, 1854. My recitations for the term, in addition to my other duties as acting Treas., are Geom. in the morning before breakfast, and Botany at 9 o'clock. By the by, this morning recitation on an empty stomach is a most horrible arrangement both for student and Professor. It is barbarous and unnecessary, injurious to health and destructive of good nature and cheerfulness. Whoever invented it ought to use it for the remainder of his life as a punishment for his doltishness. A hungry headache is the most annoying of aches because in a free and well.vitualled country like ours it is not necessary~ 
Saturday May 6, 1854. On Monday I commence the publication of the General Catalogue of Union College under the following conditions: I assume the expence of the same, say $.300, and Dr. Nott promises to pay me $150 for 100 copies for the purpose, in part, of remunerating me for editing the same and to insure no ultimate loss in the venture. 1000 copies is the probable no. to be printed for the first edition. S.S. Riggs, Printer. 
Sunday May 7, 1854. A miserable windy, cold, blustering day. Heard Mr. Day at Baptist Ch. in A. M. Home P. M., sick with a severe cold, headache, bones ditto, and other usual accompaniments of such a comforter. 
Monday May 8. 1854. Weather ditto. --farmers in despair, no ploughing done, no seed in, the great Ec[c]lipse coming which is to bring a cold summer as it did in 1801, and nothing to be raised --ergo famine ahead. War in Europe, high prices, finances of the country deranged and hard times of the hardest kind just at hand!! 

Tuesday May 9, 1854. No question for a long time has so agitated the country as the present Nebraska Bill in Congress, which proposes to open an immense territory to the dominion of Slavery. Even those friends of the "Compromise of 1850" at the north, commonly called the "Union men" or "Conservatives," are fast losing confidence in the honor and moderation of the South. 
Wednesday May 10, 1854. The cloven foot of slavery is beginning to appear and a more settled hatred to it is surely filling the minds of northern men. Slave power and interests seem actuated by one purpose -.the perpetuation and extension of African servitude; for this purpose everything else is to be sacrificed, every means are to be used to influence corrupt northern votes in sufficient force to carry southern measures 
Thursday May 11, 1854. The Presidency, Ministerships, Consulships and offices without end are all so many baits held out to tempt the demagogue and the ambitious. The boldness of Southern schemes are only equalled by the assurance and openness with which they are asserted in some of their leading Journals. Succeeding the Nebraska Bill giving free scope for slavery extension to the North West, we are to find occasion for a brush with Spain: who now, being less supported by France and England on account of their war with Russia, is to fall an easy victim to our rapacity. Cuba is the prize for which ... 
Friday May 12, 1954 .... we now [think?] to commence war with Spain if it can not be obtained otherwise. This will give the South a maj[ority] in the Senate and reduce the Northern preponderance in the Ho[use] of Rep[resentatives]. Alliance is then to be had with Brazil, and all tropical America is to be subjugated and be converted into a grazing ground for slaves. The slave trade with Africa is to be resumed and then, according to some, the millennium of democratic freedom and liberty will arrive!! 
Saturday May 13, 1854. A severe cold for 4 or 5 days with "bone-ache" &c&c. To Albany to obtain the means of giving a satisfaction for the mort[gage] of J. J. Van Schaick of Albany to Yates and McIntyre. The papers altho imperfect were finally adjusted by Mr. McIntyre, the surviving partner, giving a sat[isfaction] instead [to] Union College. 
113
J 
Sunday May 14, 1854. Heard Mr. __________ Methodist Ch. and Princ[ipal] of West áPoultney, Vt. Seminary in the Pres. Ch. A. M. An uncommon preacher. 
Albany Monday May 15, 1854. To Albany to sell the Wm. Armstrong property which I have foreclosed for Coll. Sold same for $1700, leaving on bond and M[ortgage] $1200 loaned to Garrit S. Van Wie, the purchaser. Received also the bal[ance] of the J. J. Van Schaick mort[gage] and paid all upon Comptroller's Bond. Day fine. 
Tuesday May 16, 1854. Father and Mo[ther] Harvey came tonight fr[om] Cincinnati on a visit, where they have passed the winter. 
Wednesday May 14 1854. The no. of students in college have slightly increased above the no. of last year. It remains to be seen whether we have reached the bottom of the decline into which our 6 years warfare has forced us. Perhaps we may now rise slowly to our former number in a few years. 
Little Falls Thursday May 18, 1854. Rained till noon when started for Little Falls to sell property mortgaged by Mary Smith to Un. College. The country never look finer, fresher, and more verdant. Started 11:35, reached L. F. 1:50: 54 miles. Met Frederick Lansing Esqr., discussed value of the property. Visited the graveyard, paper mill &c. 
Friday May 19, 1854. Day fine. Property being much depreciated obtained no bid equal to claim of College by about $200. Bought in the College at $1287.57: otherwise no offer above $1200. 3 1/2 o'clock P. M. started for home where arrived at 6 o'clock. 
Union College Saturday May 20, 1854. Weather fine. All day in Tr. Office, write, write, write. Dunning, posting, letter-writing, balancing, footing up, &c. 
Sunday May 21, 1sás4. The Baptist Church after some years of depression, loss of their former house by debt &c. have now commenced an apparently prosperous course. Their present Brick Church, erected two years since at a cost of about $9000, is paid for so far as the work has been carried, and it now only remains to raise about $2500 to finish it entirely. 
Monday May 22, 1854. My recitations for this term are Freshman in Geometry and a voluntary class in Botany. The first, too large for profit to the student, contains some 25 in all; half the no. would be enough. 
Tuesday May 23, 1854. Sent to the Printer S. S. Riggs the first pages of a "General Catalogue" of the Graduates &c. of Union College. This work, which has cost me much labor, has some peculiarities: 1. It is in English 2. It contains not only all graduates but the names also of those who have taken a partial course, and lastly all hon[orary] degrees. 3. It attempts to give the professions [and] original residences, last present residences, and deaths in parallel columns. When it is known that ... 
Wednesday May 24, 1854 .... the whole number of names is nearly 4500 it will be readily conceived what must be the difficulty of obtaining even these few items of information. It is likely that I have obtained correct knowledge of at least 2/3 the whole. 
Thursday May 25, 1854. One great obstacle in the way of an accurate catalogue of our graduates is the imperfection of our records, such as they are. They may be considered complete, but have been kept in a most slovenly manner like all our minutes, records, and accounts. No reliance can be placed upon the spelling of the names altho' they may all be entered in the books. This is a great misfortune, for nothing looks ... 
Friday May 26, 1854 .... worse in such a work or takes worse, than false names. To remedy this as much as possible, I have searched the whole cartload of letters in the office for autographs and have succeeded perhaps in finding 1/ 4 part of them. Another omission which perhaps can never be supplied is that of the middle names, which for several reasons should be written in full in our records. (The Great Eclipse: See Monday) 
Saturday May 27, 1854. To Albany with Mary and her mother shopping &c .. Warm. Paid Comptoller of the State another $500 on college bond thus reducing it to about $2200. 
Sunday May 28, 1854. Warm. To Church at Presbyterian Ch. Heard Mr. Backus. 
/133 
Monday May 29. 1854. I was speaking on Friday of omitting middle names. The mere initial letter only being retained is often changed by carelessness for another, and besides is perfectly useless and meaningless. Middle names with common surnames are quite proper and useful for the sake of distinction, but when given should not be reduced to an initial thus destroying the design and effect. 
Tuesday May 30, 1854. I have for the year past adopted the practice of making every man who enters college register his name in his own hand in full, giving besides his father's name, birth place, residence, P. O.,birthday and age. Hereafter, therefore, the same difficulties that have occurred in learning the correct names of our graduates cannot occur. 
Wednesday May 31, 1854. Another source of error in my catalogue is the 
false information unintentionally given by my correspondents. It is hoped, 
however, that a second edition will be made more perfect. 
Thursday June 1, 1854. One Dr. Solger is now delivering six lectures to the College in Chapel every afternoon, on the "past, present, and future of Europe." He is a Prussian refugee, and speaks English with fluency and propriety. His lectures show very considerable powers of generalization, and are on the whole rather uncommon productions, surpassing the ordinary run of such efforts. I think it probable that his views would not 
be altogether assented to by the best informed. 
Friday June 2, 1854. Fine day. Getting dry, rain wanted. The Boston slave case excites great interest. Since the passage of the infamous Nebraska Bill there is a deep and settled conviction áat the North that the Slave power of the country is seeking to override and bear down all aspirations and attempts to restrict it by the free people of the North, and the latter now very generally will lend no assistance or countenance [any?] hereafter if possible to the slave catchers under the law of 1850. 
Saturday June 3, 1854. Warm, fine, genial weather. Prof. Joy, the contemplated Prof. of Analytic Chem. in U. C. left yesterday after a stay of a couple of days. His visit was for the purpose of conferring with Dr. Nott on the fitting up of the Laboratory &c. Cash in all estimated at say $5000. Had also a 10-days visit from Wm. James Stillman of N. Y., artist &c&c., who comes to S[chenectady] to sketch a portrait of Dr. Nott for the lithographer. Doubtful whether he gets the number of "sittings" necessary for it. The Dr. has too much on hand to attend to such sublunary things as paintings and portraits. As he grows older, he is more and more hurried and driven with business.á 

Sunday June 4, 1854. Warm, nearly summer heat. Heard Mr. Day at Bapt. Ch. in A. M. P. M. communion sermon in same place. 
Monday June 5, 1854. The warmest day of the season. Up at 6 o'clock, to Treasurer's office, thence to recitation, afterwards to see Dr. Nott in his study, whom found at his work writing. Conversation of 20 minutes on various subjects. 
Dr. N. When I am gone the faculty will insist upon stricter rules and more stringent application of them; they'll get into trouble by such a course and have a row in College. 
I. I think, Dr., that the faculty do not desire to meddle with the discipline of Coll. If therefore the students rebel at all, it will be against the rule of the Pres't. to whom they (faculty) desire to leave such matters. 
Dr. N. You cant make all young men equally good students; nor make them all like the same studies. Some want Math, some languages, and you cant force all to the same standard. You may bring the horse to water but cant make him drink. We never had a rebellion in Union. See what a muss they've got into in Columbia College; lately the same thing happened in Harvard, &c. á 
Twenty m[inute]s. before 8, breakfasted; at 8 started by R. R. for Albany where arrived at 8 h. 30m. to Comptroller's Office and paid on bond of U. C. $1203.35, reducing the same to $1000 and odd dollars. To State Library (new building) now under process of erection, a small expensive, "*****fled" building said to be fire proof, a sad compound of wood and stucco, iron and stone, ill-contrived, ill-ventilated, ill-lighted, a wasteful expenditure of the public money (more than $100,000) by a set of ignoramuses in architecture and library economy. Such a ridiculous attempt at architecture should be frowned upon on [by] every lover of the art. Everything is sacrificed to show; nothing is arranged for use. The Librarian has no private room, there is no store or unpacking room, no repairing and labelling room, no clerks room, nothing but two great long gallery-like halls for all and every purpose. It is too narrow, much too narrow, for its breadth and height and is too small for the wants of the state after the next 20 years. Besides it occupies the very ground which will soon be needed for the enlargement of the Capitol. 
11 o'clock started for home where arrived at 11 3/4. P. M. 1-2 at Library to deliver books to students, then to office. 
Evening spent at Dr. Notts. Miss Anna Maria Anable, Mrs. N's. neice of Phila., now on her way from Hamilton where she has been to attend the funeral of Mrs. Epedson who died Thursday night at 10 oclock. 11 o'clock 
P.M.to bed. 

Tuesday June 6, 1854. Dry, hot and thirsty. Vegetation is suffering badly. The usual round of duties, in recitation room, Treas. office &c. Received call from Mr. Robt. Miller to draft a petition [for] the Common Council for opening the College Terrace Road from Union St. thro' to State Street and Liberty St. eastward to the "Old Niskayuna Road." Walked upon "Prospect Hill" to view the ground &c&c. 
Wednesday June 7, 1854. Warm, hot day., and sultry. Usual routine of business. 7 o'clock in evening to the Chapel to examine "University Students" for full admission. Present: Profs. Lewis, Foster, Gillespie and Peissner. But few present and little done: away at nine o'clock and home. 
Thursday June 8, 1854. A fine rain during the night, a fresh, clean, cool morning --all nature smiling in tears. Showers during the day and evening. To the printers 3 times to read and correct "Proof'' of "General Catalogue." 
Friday June 9, 1854. Fine cool day with showers. Conversation with Clarke 
B. Cochrane Esqr. on the College Trustees relating to salaries of Profs., which are considered inadequate to a comfortable and respectable livelihood with the present prices of provisions. In fact our compensation is not so great now as 40 years since when the cost of maintaining a family could not have been more than 2/3 what it is now. Ten years agone our salaries were reduced nearly 1/3 with the understanding that the change should only be temporary, but hope deferred and promises unfulfilled have at length given rise to much dissatisfaction among the Profs., many of whom are almost hopelessly in debt. The Trustees are all strongly in favor of increased compensation but know not from whence it is to come without encroaching upon the capital invested. Much has been expected from Dr. Nott's great gift but unfortunately no income has been realized from it as yet and it is quite uncertain when any may be looked for. So we stand with the hearty will to do the fair thing by the faculty but with our hands tied and no power to move. 
Saturday June 10, 1854. Weather fine. Measuring lots to sell, dunning delinquent creditors, writing letters, &c&c. 

Sunday June 11, 1854. Weather ditto. To Pres. Church, heard Dr. Backus. 
Monday June 12. 1854. Weather ditto, neither too hot nor too cool for comfort. 6 o'clock to Geom. Rec[itation], 9 o'clock to Bot. Rec., 12 to 2 at Library. Wrote petition for Robt. Miller to Mayor and Com[mon] Co[uncil] to open certain streets, answered letters and questions innumerable from students and others who have nothing to do but consume busy folks' time. Father Harvey started for Cincinnati at 4.30 P. M. With wife to call on Mrs. Jackson, North End North Coll. Home, 11 o'clock to bed cross, and "out of sorts." 
Tuesday June 13, 1854. Warm, dry, rain much needed. The College printer for many years (perhaps 40) has been first Isaac Riggs and then his son Stephen S., the proprietor of his late father's establishment. The summer's work is unusually large: 1. a work on surveying by Prof. Wm. M. Gillespie; 2d., a new book on Mental Philosophy and [3d.] a new edition of Moral Philos. by Prof. Hickok; 4th a General Catalogue of Officers &c&c. of Union College compiled by myself; 5. The usual annual College Catalogue besides circulars &c&c. 
Wednesday June 14, 1854. Riggs is a neat and tasteful printer, none more so in the country out of New York, but altho' knowing his trade he lacks that energy and business tack necessary for success and progress. 
Thursday June 15, 1854. Smoky, beyond any other occasion, I think, these 22 years I have been in Schenectady. The western hills are quite shut out from view and even the Mohawk is scarcely visible from College Hill. Students again this year --those of the Senior Class I mean --are going to the rather extravagant expense of having daguerreotypes and lithographs made of some 50 of them. A pleasant memento and unfortunately the price is too low [for] good likenesses and too high for poor ones. The attempt was made last year for the first time and was but partially successful, an imitation of certain eastern colleges. 
Friday June 16, 1854. Dry, smokey, cool, especially nights. No rain, crops suffer and dismal croakings and forebodings are heard. Estimations from various places. New York show[s] the near approach of the cholera, whether mild or severe [in] form time can only tell. The cases on ship board among the poor European immigrants have been frequent and severe. It may be already set down as having begun in New York as an epidemic. 
Saturday June 17, 1854. Taking down the South Hall (Boarding House long 
I l37 
since) near the Union Street gate. Reason, its miserable dilapidated condition --cracked walls, broken roof, crumbling foundation, the sure consequences of incompetent architects and overseers. Scarce a building on College Hill save the new Phil. Hall built in 1852 but shows the most lamentable signs of feeble judgement and want of experience in the construction of dwellings. 
Sunday June 18, 1854. Dry, warm, sultry and smoky. The cry is "Oh for a shower!" A. M. To hear Mr. Day at Bapt. Ch. P. M. To hear Dr.Hickok in the Dutch Church, who preaches in absence of Mr. Seelye. 
Monday June 19, 1854. Weather ditto. Business of the day d[itt]o, quite like the past and types of those to come so far as one can foresee. 
Tuesday June 20, 1854. Weather d[itt]o, no signs of rain or if there be they fail. To vary the sameness of the day had a call at office from a young woman, Miss Sarah Pellet of Syracuse, a graduate of Oberlin College, who wished to make inquiries about U. C. and see our Library. Went to West College in town where it now is and showed the books and minerals. She appeared modest and well informed, conversed well on most subjects, but somewhat unused to the usages of society or as it is sometimes called "grace". It is not often that females visit Colleges in this way unaccompanied by male attendants and hence the oddity of it. 
Wednesday June 21, 1854. Weather ditto with more signs of rain tonight which probably will fail by morning. Letter writing, collecting money, correcting proof at printers, &c&c. 
Thursday June 22, 1854. Fine moderate rain thro' the day. 
In constructing a code of College laws, there are 4 parties who may be said to be particularly interested, whose rights are to be respected and whose duties and powers are to be defined, viz. The Trustees, the President, the Faculty, and the undergraduates. The subjects of such a system of laws may be arranged under 4 different heads. First: the Finances. Second, the moral and religious culture and the manners of the young men. Third: the Department of Instruction and Studies. And Fourth: Miscellaneous. 
Every thing appertaining to the Finances, the construction and repairs of buildings and in fine all the material interests of the Institution, should be directly under the supervision of the Trustees, or their Presidential or Finances Committee to whom their agents should be responsible. Whatever advice might be given to this Committee by the President or Faculty, still it should always make the final determination 
II 38 
and should never be permitted so far to delegate their power to others as be absolved from responsibility. The evils which may arise from a non.observance ... 
Friday June 23, 1854 .... of this rule are, among others: the loss of interest on the part of the Presidential Com[mittee] with a loss of knowledge of the affairs of [the] College, a gradual enlarging of the powers of the President, who naturally assumes their powers and functions and, if he be not an angel, will in short absorb all the authority of Trustees and faculty onto himself, and make fatal mistakes if for no other reason because no one man is able to do all manner [of] offices with acceptance. 
The second department, of Morals, Religion and Manners of the young men, should in the main be under the control of the President ( except in matters of great moment, when the Faculty should decide) because these matters can be better managed by one man supposed to be wise, of a mature age, parental in his government than by his Faculty. In this department there should be but few simple rules, it being supposed that all young men who are old enough to enter college have a sufficient knowledge of what is proper and right in their intercourse with each other and in their duties towards their Maker. The President therefore has only to see, so far as it is in his power, that the Laws of God, of Morality and the decent usages of society are properly observed. 
Saturday June 24, 1854. The Third Department of Instruction and Studies should be under the direct control of the Faculty (I am now speaking of those colleges where no professional schools of Theol., Med. and Law are attatched), for it would be absurd to suppose that the Trustees were competent to this task and the President is only one of the Faculty and should only have a concurrent voice with them. The Faculty therefore should direct the text books to be used in the several sciences; the times and manner of lectures and recitations, the examinations for entrances to College and for graduation, the courses of study, the time and amount of studies to be pursued in each and in fine every matter pertaining to this department, making such changes from time [to time?] as their experience and the progress of science shall dictate. These Three Departments, being kept distinct and under the supervision of each seperate body, will be carried on with a better prospect of usefulness and efficiency than where the whole responsibility rests upon one man overburthened and confused, or where the special duties not assigned to each become the work of all and are therefore not done at all, or not done well. 

Sunday June 25, 1854. A. M. Heard Dr. Backus at the Pres. Church. P.M. Dr. Hickok at Dutch Ch. 
Monday June 26, 1854. The prevailing impression that this was to be a cholera season bids fair in some measure to be realized. Already here and there scattered cases occur and boards of health are moving in our large cities to put their respective places in proper order for the dreadful scourge. One case in our city has proved fatal in about 12 hours. 
Tuesday June 27, 1854. After passing through the wear and tear of 50 years the "Old West College" seems destined at last to become converted into a city school house. It was commenced about the year 1800 and finished (perhaps) in 1804, being the first building erected purposely for this object. Previous to this time the old building on the north corner of Union and Ferry Streets had been used for college purposes. TheWest College was sold to the County for a court house and jail about the year 1815, at which time the present buildings on the Hill were completed, and continued so to be used till the year 1832, when it was bought back by the Trustees from the County and again used as a college till last year when the students in College were so reduced in numbers that the buildings on the Hill would accommadate them. The feeling among ... 
Wednesday June 28, 1854 .... Trustees and Faculty is that it is no longer practicable or proper to place a body of young men so far from the principal seat of the College and that for the present at least our lodgings on the Hill will suffice. Last winter after long and repeated attempts, a law was passed for the better organization of the schools of our City in which it is contemplated to purchase the West College, and arrange a free Grammar School in connection with the lower departments. 
Thursday June 29, 1854. In anticipation of the approaching Fiftieth Anniversary of Dr. Nott's presidency, sent some 2000 circulars to 
II LJ-0 
graduates inviting attendance on this occasion and answers. The estimated number of those who will be present is from 800 down; all things considered, we may be content with half this number. I doubt whether U. 
C. will ever see 800 of her sons together. Certainly in 1845 at the Semi-... 
Friday June 30, 1854 .... Centennial An[niversary] not more than 400 to 500 were here notwithstanding great preparations and efforts were made. The truth is the Sons of U. C. are soon weaned; they find little that is inviting in their mother's house. No effort is made to cultivate a social feeling and effect an interchange of sentiments among the alumni; they feel that it will not pay to come back here merely to hear the spouting and raving of Seniors upon the stage on Com[mencement] Day, and snatch a bit of cold ham and bread. Our grads. evidently feel that ... 
Saturday July 1, 1854 ... no farther intercourse is desired when they leave Coll. and hence seldom trouble us with their presence. Hence we fail of our duty sadly. The strength of a college, as well as of a family, is its sons who, if well inclined, may vastly further its interests and prosperity. The maternal influence however must not be lost by indifference and coldness. They must be welcomed warmly, and such appliances used as will make their visit to the maternal home pleasant and desirable at each annual commencement. 

Sunday July 2, 1854. P. M. and A.M. at the Baptist Church. Mr. H. Day preached. Communion sermon at 2 o'clock. Wife of William McCamus, merchant, died this evening of cholera, sick one day. 
Monday July 3, 1854. Busy balancing books preparatory to Gen. Statement of Accounts and Finances of Coll. for year ending June 30. 
Tuesday July 4, (1854] was ushered in as usual with guns, crackers, ringing of bells and all other noisy demonstrations. The hottest day of the season. The engine and military co[mpanie]s paraded the streets, the Declar[ation ofJ Indep[endence] was read at Dutch Ch. and the audience were addressed by Prof. Foster. In the evening, fireworks at the east end of State Street on the "Albany Hill," followed by a smart shower at 9 o'clock which cooled the atmosphere and the patriotic ardor of the boys old and young. In Treas. Office all day. 

Wednesday July 5, 1854. Weather cooler, still warm. Fewer accidents than might have been expected are reported, considering the intense heat and the quantity of bad liquor drank. Speaking of liquor, the Grand Jury at their last sitting indicted among others the Mayor for granting illegal moral licences to sell spirituous drinks. 
Thursday July 6, 1854. Hot! Hot! Hot!! day and night. Letter from Dr. Joy, our Chem. Prof.-in-expectation a few days since, saying he had sent to Dr. 
N. orders for chemicals, apparatus &c., to fit up our New Laboratory. Have my fears about the whole affair, that it will end in talk as most of our magnificent projects have done these 35 or 40 years. The future! the future! There is where we live and where we shall prosper and begin to move on. No Coll. can talk larger, promise better than U. C. but we always fail in the performance. The erection of our peper box of a Chapel is a standing joke; 22 years ago when I first knew U. C. it was just going up and every year since the rumor has been repeated, till the very mention of such a thing excites a smile. When anything is done about U.C. I believe it; but nothing of what is said. 
Friday July 7. 1854. The cholera is making some progress in most parts of the country. It would not be surprising, therefore, after the excesses of the 4th and the furious heat of that day to hear of an increase of this disease. In a house, corner of Franklin and Jay St. filled with poor Irish, filthy and crowded, out of a family of 8 persons 5 have died since the 5th and two more are now on the verge of the grave, all from cholera 
Saturday July 8, 1854. Busy making out annual Treasurer's report for the Trustees. The income exceeds the expenses this year by $454. It is seldom that such a result has been found in the finances of Un. Coll. Generally a contrary showing takes place. Nothing but the strictest economy in every department and a husbanding of all our resources can produce such a result. It is more than doubtful that a similar report can be made the coming year. By losses from bad investments our productive funds are now so low and the term bills, which are not in the management of the Treas., are so readily and profusely remitted by the Officer having this matter in charge, that the Trustees are cramped to find means to meet current expenses without encroaching upon the Capital. 
Sunday July 9, 1854. Hot! Heard Rev. Mr. Day of the Baptist Church in A. M. At home P. M. 

Monday July 10, 1854. Prices of provision have seldom been higher, the great staple (flour) having been as high as $12.50. Good brands are now $11.50. Potatoes have sold in this place for 13/ pr. bushel. This being the case, what wonder that persons living by wages and on salaries should ask for additional compensation! Our professors' salaries, now $1,000, are acknowledged to be too low by all the Trustees, but how to increase them is a difficult question to answer in the present state of our finances. Some say they must leave without an increase. It only remains to be seen what the Board will do for them at the coming meeting on July 24. These meetings held but Tuesday once in a year ... 
Tuesday July 11, 1854 .... at the Commencement season, the busiest time in the year, are very little favorable to the transaction of business or a correct understanding of the affairs of the Coll. These yearly sessions usually commence on Tues. and continue one hour or so, business being referred to a committee; on Wed[nesday m[ orning] another hour closes the labors of the year. 
Wednesday July 12, 1854. Mild pleasant weather, but dry. No rain for a long time. Hardly a smart shower during the season. 
Thursday July 13, 1854. Weather ditto. It is said "You must eat a peck of salt with a person before you know him." I would alter this maxim thus, "You must have money transactions with a man before you know him." Nothing will so much try a man's integrity, honor, and magn[an]imity, nothing so often estranges friends and neighbours, nothing so often causes the fall or belittling of otherwise great and good men. If you wish to continue an exalted opinion of a great man, never become intimate with him. "The Hero is no hero to his valet." Men of great talents are also men of great faults, and few have the charity to acknowledge the former when obscured by the latter. 
Friday July 14, 1854. Dry, warm! no signs of rain. It takes a very small amount of real genius and talent to make a great man in the popular acceptation of the term. Shakespeare says ,"Some are born great, some acquire greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them." Those who make the most noise in the world are often taken for heros and giants -.nothing more false than this estimate. They live but a day; the next generation did [does?] not know them. No one is worthy of or will acquire this high privilege who does not rear [some enduring monument to attest to future generations to his claims for their admiration and esteem. 
Saturday July 15, 1854. Hot, dry and thirsty. Received annual report of 
114-3 
State of the Finances from the printer and sent to each of the Trustees. 
Faculty meeting last evening at Treasury office. Present: President Nott . Profs. L. P. Hickok, T. Lewis, I.W. Jackson, John Foster, Wm. M. Gillespie, Elias Peissner, Jona. Pearson. Read the catalogue of College to learn progress and merit of each student, also of Senior Class, to determine the candidates for A. B. The whole affair of no great account; much talk, main[ly] opinions, plenty of stale wisdom, but decisions all as they were made beforehand --not by a vote of the Professors. Never knew over 2 or 3 votes taken by Profs in a faculty meeting since my connection with Union Coll. 
Sunday July 16, 1854. Excessively hot. Heard Dr. Backus in A. M. Gas chandeliers for the first time in his church. 
Monday July 17, 1854. Hot, dry, every thing parched up --general cry for rain. The farce of examination commenced again today to be turned off on the high pressure system. The whole Senior Class was dispatched in two hours and a half. The Freshman Class in 3 hours and a half, the Sophomore studies ! ! ! Why make such an unmitigated humbug of the whole thing? Why not dispence with the examinations altogether? Sure enough, why not? The Faculty are to a man opposed to this method of proceedure and earnestly desire more thorough and strict examinations but, being quite powerless, have apparently given up in despair. From the driving a stake upon the farm to the graduating of a class from college there is but one will; the faculty is nobody; one head is the perfection of wisdom; twelve are the concentration of folly!!! 
Tuesday July 18, 1854. At it again with the thermometer up to the melting point. No examiners at all yesterday; today, two: Rev. Messrs. Edward Taylor of Lansing burgh and Lester Janes of Chatham. All thro' tonight and College swept out!!! Wonderful dispatch, enough to shame all our neighbors. Then too we can manufacture graduates quite as rapidly. The faculty on Friday evening specified who should have diplomas and who should not. Today Mr. M., who has never studied a line of Latin or Greek since he came to College, fetches an order from_______ that he is to have a classical diploma!! So we go, "The faculty are nobody, again. 
Chapter of accidents last night: One student had a fit, a second thought he had the cholera, and a third fell up stairs and put his elbow out of joint! All alive and doing well this morning and travelling about in the afternoon. 
Wednesday July 19, 1854. Hot! oh how hot!! The hottest day of the season, and for many a year. From many sources I learn that the thermometer 
l/44 
stood at 102 in the shade. My own at 6 o'clock P.M. stood at 96. Not a breath of air stirring. The evening is almost insupportable. The need for rain both for comfort and for the crops never seemed greater. 
The event of last night was a new feat in the pranks of our College called the "burial of Logic." To begin at the beginning, it has been whispered around for some days that a celebration analagous to what they have in some Eastern Colleges, called the burial of Euclid, was in contemplation by the Sophomores, but as it was not attempted when looked for last week 'twas thought to be but a rumor. 
Last night, however, the grand performance came off, in really good style. Cook's Brass Band from Albany was hired for the occasion, the Van Horne House in town was bespoken, a funeral service was performed consisting of dirges, a sermon &c. About 1 o'clock they sal[l]ied forth bearing torches and, preceeded by the Band, marched to College Hill. The flashing of the lights parading across the terrace made a truly picturesque appearance. When at the center of the grounds between the N. and S. Colleges, a halt was made, and a funeral dirge was sung over the departed dead, his body was deposited upon a tarbarrel which was lighted, throwing up an immence volume of lurid flame illuminating the Colleges and grounds for a great distance. The band then struck up, and the whole procession march[ed] north to the North Hall, down the "North Road," Troy Road and so to town, thus closing the whole farce. 
Thus has commenced a new feat in Coll. which succeeding classes will feel bound to perpetuate. This is the objection to all such boyish pranks in Coll. that are connected with any thing annual in their occurence. They are never forgotten and always to be expected when the time comes around, sometimes noisy, boisterous and rowdy, leading to drinking and mischeif. Dr. Nott's Birthday, the 27th of June, is one of these occasions which has given much annoyance to him and to all the Professors because attended sometimes with much noise and unbecoming conduct, quite unworthy of the occasion and the students. This year, however, it terminated in a complete failure, being discounted [and de-]nounced by the College generally as disrespectful to the Pres't. and painful to his feelings. 
Thursday July 20, 1854. Weather ditto, and if any thing more so. Some thermometers yesterday as high as 106. About the same today. From all parts the same reports of intense heat. Examinations closed --all attention is turned to the celebration of next week. Busy these 6 or 8 weeks in getting out of the press a General Catalogue of U. Coll. Printer finishes his work tomorrow much to my satisfaction, --a pamphlet of about 125 pp. on somewhat of a novel plan. Published at my own risk, at an expense of $350 or so. 
( t:0 
114-{ 
Friday July 21,1854. Heat ditto, intolerable! dry, every thing parching up. No signs of rain till this evening a little spirt of a shower for 10 ms., just enough to lay the dust for half an hour. 
Saturday July 22, 1854. Cloudy till 10 oclock; wind from the south; hot as though coming from the mouth of a furnace. To Albany to see the Trustees of Coll. residing there, if possible to secure a quorum next week. Found no one in town save the Governor, who promised to come if well enough. All the rest have fled from the heat of town. Home again at 11 o'clock. Met Alex. Holland at cars on his way from N. Y. to attend Com[mencement]. His mother, Wid[ow] Jones H., fell two days ago at R. Road depot and seriously injured her head and throat upon the rail. Conversation with C. B. Cochran, Trustee, upon finances of College which are in a very straitened condition. Beautiful shower this eve which has somewhat cooled the atmosphere. 
Sunday July 23, 1854. Would ordinarily be called a hot day but so much more tolerable than the last 4 days that all people are satisfied with it. 
A. M. To Pres. Ch. to hear Dr. M. L. P. Thompson of Buffalo preach. Rather a novel subject and somewhat peculiarly handled. The duty of Christians to pray for their rulers. Some of his positions not at all to the liking of many of his hearers because perhaps too strongly stated. P. M. at 7 1/2 oclock he preached to the Theol. Soc. of U. C. Subject: The revealed will of God in the Bible our only guide, and far above and beyond our reason, a well.thought-out and -written discourse. A man of no ordinary power and ability. So closes the first instalment of our anniversary discourses and orations; if all do as well we may not feel ashamed of them. 
Monday July 24, 1854. Weather hot and sultry in morning, soon commenced raining and continued till P. M. Graduates commencearriving 

to register their names, have placed a man at West College with a book. 
P.M. 3 o'clock. Rev. James M. McDonald of Princeton, N.J., addresses the Delta Society. 4 o'clock. James S. Thayer Esqr. of N.Y. delivered an oration before the P. B. K. In the evening Wendell Philips addressed the Literary Societies and John G. Saxe pronounced a poem in the Dutch Church. The reason of transferring the exercises from Pres. to Dutch Ch. -.the gas gave out and the former could not be lighted by it; the latter, being still lighted by lamps, was soon in readiness. 
To provide lodgings for all who come besides private houses among the citizens, SO beds have been put up at the old West College. 
Tuesday July 23, 1854. Weather fine but hot. The day opened at Pres Ch. with an historical discourse by Judge W.W. Campbell, followed by another on Education by Dr. Wayland. Heard neither --in office. P.M. 3 o'clock. Dr. Nott met the Alumni in same place and addressed them for 1 hour. The occasion was an interesting one --the discourse not particularly so. About 500 Graduates present. After Dr. N's speech followed a series of resolutions and rather prosy speeches. The Register shows about 420 names. Evening. Dr. N. and faculty met the Grads. at old West College, a regular jam, hot and uncomfortable. Library open and lighted up, also Geological Museum. Closed at 11 o'clock and away home. 
Wednesday July 26. 1854. Commencement Day. Very warm as usual. In office all day. Evening. Graduates Soiree at West College for Ladies and Gentlemen last night; no Ladies or scarcely any. Dansing till late--came away at 12 o'clock before supper. Trustees met on Monday, Tues. and Wed. at such odd times as were not filled up by other exercises --a most contemptible way of shuffling off the most important business of the College without deliberation, forsight, or a quorum. The business meetings of the Board ought to be held at some other time when time and quiet could be given to the weighty concerns of the Institution. They made me Treasurer without my desire or asking, undecided whether to accept, must first have a conference [with] the Resident Trustees. 
Thursday July 27, 1854. A fine show[er] last evening has cooled the atmosphere. Magoun and M[ary] Ann with Edward came Monday morning and left yesterday. Tired and languid from the last days excitement and labor. Mr. Joy, our new Contemplated Prof. of Analytic Chem., is now awaiting the decision of the Resident Trustees to whom was referred his case. 
Friday July 28, 1854. Cool and pleasant. Students nearly all left. College 

deserted, Professors all here because unable to leave for want of means. Salaries go but a little way in these times of high prices. A very decided call for more money. But where it is to come from, the Trustees can not devine. 
Saturday July 29, 1854. Weather fine. Dr. N. to Utica yesterday, back today. Great excitement and indignation among the Professors at the fact that Mr. Joy, our new Professor, is to be paid $1500. for [the] year and to go to Europe a year or two, whilst the old Profs. stay at home and labor on $1000. Some say it is an insult, some an outrage --all feel hurt and discouraged, with great reason. Mr. J. is to be placed upon Dr N's endowment, taking the very place many times promised to Dr. Lewis. Who did so unjust, senseless, foolish an act? The Res. Trustees say it was not we. Then let the blame fall upon the Author. I have never seen the Profs. so moved. Shortsighted wisdom! which treats the faculty with indignity and as children, which never consults them, which only throws them a sugar plum when they cry and are restless. 
Sunday July 30, 1854. A. M. Heard a boy preacher at Baptist Ch. P.M. Heard Mr. TenEyck at Pres. Ch. 
Monday July 31, 1854. Fine day. The Faculty still in ferment, no satisfaction from _______ who has left for New York. There is but one opinion, that the salary of Mr. J. must be lowered to the other Profs. or theirs must be raised, the latter preferable. All day in office. 
Mr. Willard, Register, away to Alexander's Bay, St Lawrence Co. fishing. 
Tuesday August 1, 1854. Only a portion of the salaries can be paid, say two thirds. Posting books for the last month, drawing checks for salaries, &c&c. 
Wednesday August 2, 1854. Dry, no rain. It is generally conceded by all the friends of the College, Pres't., Trustees, and Faculty, that we have too soon by 5 years commenced to blow our trumpet for the public to know of our great good fortune. It is generally thought from our manner of stating the fact that we have actually received $600,000 --that we shall now immediately increase our corp[s] of teachers, library, apparatus, and whatever else will make more efficient our facilities for teaching, ... 
Thursday August 3, 1854 .... all false, College has received certain promises to pay a certain indefinite amt. at a future time; when and how much nobody knows; it may be 300, 500, 700 thousand[s] [of] dollars, in 5, 10, or a dozen years hence. In the meantime, public expectation being stimulated 
I I LJ-~ 
by such wonderful stories of our riches, will resent the disappointment. We shall be pronounced a humbug --full of broken promises, a sham. 
Friday August 4, 1854. Gulling the public with high-sounding words without corresponding acts. The Chemical Department, which has so long been talked of and promised, instead of coming out of the new trust of Dr. N., is thrown altogether upon the old college fund already inadequate to pay current expenses, and $5000 dollars is asked for [apparatus?] to start with. How is this to be raised? It is ... 
Saturday August 5, 1854 .... proposed to use so much of our diminutive capital as will be necessary to found the Laboratory and raise the Professors salaries. Some propose to delay the Chem. Dept. indefinitely, make no new expense save what is indispensable, and borrow a small sum on our real estate. 
Sunday August 6. 1854. To Pres. Church and heard the bro. of Dr. Backus, now settled in Baltimore. 
Monday August 7, 1854. The estimated deflcit[[s] of income of College to meet anticipated expenses for the next two years are somewhat as follows: ordinary and current expenses, say 4,000; increase of sal. of Lewis and Jackson, 2,000 ditto; of Hickok, 500. Past advance to Lewis and Jackson, say 600; Tutor@ $500; 1,000 Chemical Laboratory, 5,000; J. C. Spencer's Bust, 
500. $13,600 to be raised, above price of West Coll., to build new Libr[ary] on Hill, say 3,000. Increase of sal. of other Profs.? 
Tuesday August 8, 1854. Dry, beyond all precedent, hot, dusty, and dis.mal. The prospects for crops is quite discouraging. Potatoes are spoiled and now selling for 10/c pr. bush. Buckwheat badly scorched; corn even is much injured and promises but a light yeild. In spite of the promise of an abundant European harvest, prices go up and will probably rule high thro' the year. 
IIl/-9 
Wednesday August 9, 1854. Foreign news much sought for and anxiously expected. The great European War between France, Turkey and England on the one side and Russia on the other swallows up all other interests and considerations. The various plans of crippling Russia, the alliances sought for, the accessible points of attack, the rumors of negociations, the ultimatums and ultimatissimums present an interesting entanglement for statesmen and military men to unravel. 
Thursday August 10, 1854. The great leading question that has agitated the country for the last six months has been the Nebraska Bill, by the passage thro' Congress of which the Missouri Compr[omise] has been annulled. Perhaps no measure these 30 years has so moved the people, especially of the non-slaveholding states --a perfectly needless "muss" and only for the private ends of certain aspirants to the Presidency. The consequence is that the old wounds between N. and S. on the slavery question are opened afresh and the former with perfect truth can charge the latter with want of good faith and strict honesty. 
Friday August 11, 1854. The cry now by all parties is a repeal of the obnoxious law, and the Fugitive Slave Law in addition. Nothing less, it would seem, will satisfy the North. Will it be done? Politicians seem to think all political hurricanes among us are of short duration and are shortly followed by dead calm, that the .fury of the North is soon over and acquiescence to the will of Southern statesmen sure to follow. Perhaps in this case the like result to past experience will follow. 
Saturday August 12, 1854. The practical solution of the question, whether Kansas and Nebraska shall be slave territories, seems now or soon to be made. The race is between the border slave-holders and the anti-slavery immigrants of the Northern States, who are organizing in parties and moving to the great battlefield of Slavery. The friends of humanity are hopeful. The upholders of bondage are boastful and passionate. 
Sunday August13, 1854. The heavens are as brass over us and the earth is as ashes. When will the windows of heaven open and pour us out a blessed shower? Such times as this remind us how weak is man, how futile is what he calls science, for with all his boasted knowledge and power he cannot make one drop of rain, or stay the withering, blighting drought which now devours every green thing. 

Monday August 14, 1854. The General Catalogue of Un. College, which I have been compiling and editing for the past two years, is at last out of the press. With all its imperfections, it is doubtless a great improvement upon the old plan of "hog Latin" names without Profession, Residence &c. Counting my labor as nothing, it has cost me in money about $350. The edition consists of 1000 copies and is sold at 50 cts. each. Should another ed[ition] be called for, many corrections and additions may be made. 
Tuesday August 15, 1854. Today commenced putting the whole College Cabinet [of] Minerals, Geolog[ical] Specimens, Plants, Ana[lytical] Prep[aration?]s. &c&c. into boxes preparatory to vacating the "Old West College." The books await a like treatment. 
Wednesday August 16, 1854. The reason for this movement --that the School Commissioners of the City have contracted with the Trustees to purchase the old building for a public school or schools, the College having no other rooms to display their literary treasures in is obliged [to] box them up till another building is erected. This cannot be in readiness under two years at least. 
Thursday August 17, 1854. Such an entire want of forecast as this delaying to commence the Library Building till it is needed and, in the meantime, storing away our books beyond all access, could hardly be expected anywhere else but at Union College where everything is done without system or order, where nobody knows his place --in fact has none -.where all are without responsibility, and make-shifts are the order and rule on all occasions. When shall we do differently!! 
Friday August 18, 1854. In packing up the minerals, am assisted by 0. B. Bass and Farnham, students, by sons Henry and John. There are some two hundred boxes or more --a heavy, fatiguing, dirty job. 
Saturday August 19, 1854. No rain; for the first time in 17 years my cistern is dry and am obliged to send to the Mohawk for water, which am thankful is plentiful there yet. The "oldest inhabitant" never knew the like drought. Tonight finished the packing of minerals. Monday begin on the books, which will soon be put away. 

Sunday August 20, 1854. Heard a stranger at the Baptist Church, a licentiate now preaching at Scotia. Tired and stiff from effects of the weeks hard work. 
Monday August 21, 1854. Purchased 65 large boxes for the books, besides others on hand. The work goes on rapidly and in three days at least not a book will be seen, and Un. Coll. will be like the workman who sold his tools; or the Israelites who had to make bricks without straw. 
Tuesday August 22,1854. All sorts of growlings and remarks from the Professors as they see the books disappear in huge boxes and double.nailed close and tight against mice and insects!! One says, "It must not be done"; another, "Leave out all my department"; another, "Distribute them about among us"; another, "Put them up in cases in the recitation rooms." And so as the projects multiply, the books are disappearing, no more to be seen for two years. 
Wednesday August 23,1854. The work is done, everything boxable is put out of sight and now commences the removal to the North Colonade back of Prof. Newman's house. One week more and cases, desks, tables, cupboards &c&c. will lie in one undistinguishable mass in the old store room appropriated for them. I am thankful my task is done but shall be more so if I live to see a good room properly fitted for the Cabinet and Library. 
Thursday August 24, 1854. No rain yet. Cisterns, wells, springs etc. are all giving out, and for the first time in 17 years my cistern is dry and am obliged to send to the Mohawk for water. Visit of nearly a week from Mrs. Hosford of N. Y., wife of Frederic J. Hosford, cousin to Mary. 
Friday August 25, 1854. In conversation with Dr. A. M. Vedder about the number of deaths from cholera in Schen'd'y this season; he said they amounted to about 35 according to actual count; of these 11 died in one filthy house and 5 in another. As to my own family, our rule of diet ... 
Saturday August 26, 1854 .... has been to eat moderately of the usual vegitables, fresh and in their proper state for the table, and to discard nothing usually considered healthful. In the last visit of the cholera, in 1849, I made use of scarcely any meat (from choice) and lived entirely on vegitables, keeping healthy throughout the season, and gaining 15 lbs. 

I have reason to be thankful... 
Sunday August 2 7, 1854 .... for a like season of good health this year al tho' the cases of diarrhea all over the country have been innumerable. My family have none of them been attacked except my mother, whom the summer heat usually debilitates. 
Monday August 28, 1854. A little rain the other day, just enough to lay the dust and wash the smoke from the air, perhaps also to extinguish fires in some places. Much we needed it, for the fires in all parts of the country are doing dreadful havoc among the forrests. 
Hudson á Tuesday August 29, 1954. Started at 10 A.M. with wife and "Willie," the youngest, for bro-in-law Magoun's at Hudson. In way to Albany passed hundreds of acres burned over and still smoking. From Albany 11 1/2 and at Hudson 12 3/4 o'clock, found all well. 
Wednesday August 30, 1854. Dry! Hot! "Loafed" about A M. to the hill at the dock, to the great Iron Foundry which, by the by, is the lion of the city. It was started some 2 yrs. since with a capital of some $200,000 and for a time gave slight hopes of dividends to the proprietors, but since the rise in iron their profits are enormous, probably not less than 25 pr. ct. a year. 
Thursday August 31, 1854. After running 18 mos. constantly, the works were lately stopped for repairs and have now just started again. A. M. down to see the foundation of the new Epis. Ch. on Court House Square, now in the process of erection. Owing to the treacherous nature of the clay soil of Hudson, heavy foundations have to be laid with care. This is first "concreted" to the depth of 18 in., then carried up with rough limestone from Becraft's Mountain back of the city. On this is to be built a stone Gothic edifice with a tower at the right front angle. The stone, red.sandstone from Conn. 
P. M. Rode with the whole family --Mr. and Mrs. Magoun, Edward, self and wife and Willie --up as far as Chittenden's Mills on Kinderhook Creek, a fine ride doubtless in fine [weather?] and a favorable season, but now how desolate! The clay lands along the Hudson seem to suffer far more than our lands. Forrest trees in many places, SO to 7 5 years old, are as dead as if killed by fire --with the dried leaves still adhering. In fact acres of them on some hillsides are killed in the same manner. Corn, buckwheat, potatoes, grass, &c. are withered to a crisp. In places about H[udson] not so much rain has fallen since potatoes were planted as would wet the ground one half-inch in depth!! So the farmers say. Passed many pretty mansions and sites, along down Claverack Creek and up Kinderhook Creek, which two unite just before emptying into the Hudson, making a very servlc[e]able stream for mills and factories. 

Friday September 1, 1854. Fine, moderately warm day. Started from Hudson at 10 a.m. for Albany where arrived a little before 11, and took rail for home. Found all well but Sarah, Mary's sister. P. M. at College at work in Treasurer's office, posting up books for last month. Dr. N. and Mrs. left last evening for N. Y. 
Saturday September 2, 1854. No rain. Hot and dry. At work all day among account books which, bye the bye, do not necesarily occupy much of my time. The correspondence of the office forms perhaps a much larger draft 
upon my time. 
Sunday September 3, 1854. A.M. Heard Dr. Backus. P.M. Attended Bapt. Ch. Mr. Day officiated. Hot, dry, and uncomfortable! When will rain come! 
Monday Sept. 4, 1854. Weather ditto, only more so! All day at Treas. Office. Father and Mother Harvey, who have been staying with us this summer, away to N. Y. for a few days. Sarah H. still on her back, sick. Mother Pearson, who has been weak and sick the whole summer, slowly gaining strength. All the rest well save wife M., who is worn down with fatigue, her old-standing ailments. It is the duty of a Christian and philosopher, I suppose, not to look always upon present evils and mourn over them, but to observe the dealings of Providence and notice how much worse off we might be, how much better we are than many others. With age our cares and troubles increase; with age also ought to increase our wisdom and capacity to bear them. 
Tuesday September 5, 1854. Weather dittoer! Up to 94. Wind light but unbearably hot, atmosphere again full of smoke from surrounding fires. One crop at least our city may boast of this season --the plum crop, which never was more abundant. I suppose hundreds of bushels are going off to 
N. Y. of the finest fruit ever raised. Schenectady is rather famous for this fruit; its soil and climate seem well adapted to it. All day in office. 

Wednesday September 6, 1854. Dreadful weather! Thermom. at 98-100 and not a token of rain, wind light from the south and scorching. Forrest trees are beginning to die, fruit trees also, and green herbs were long since dried up save thistles. All day in office. Young men are beginning to appear for examination, which was held today in Mr. Gillespie's Engineering room. Present: Profs. Lewis, Foster and Newman. Too soon to foretell our probable accessions this term. 
This evening came the long-wished-for shower with thunder and lightning, continuing for more than two hours. A Godsend it truly is, to the suffering earth and people. Prof. C. A. Joy stepped in --our new Prof. of Analytic Chem.--on his way to Europe. Proposes to take over with him a lot of duplicate minerals, plants, books --in fine anything we have to spare for exchange. Discussed with him my plan for a new building costing some 9-10 thousand to be erected on east end of South Colonnade for the present accommadation of the Library, museum, Treas. office, and for a Chapel pro. tern. The building to be 80 x 60 ft .. and of two stories, thus: First story, Second d[itt]o. 
[DRAWINGSHERE] 
Besides these, a basement arched and paved, is to be made for storing coal &c&c. and for the furnaces used in heating the building. Joy proposes to spend the winter in Paris at the School of Mines and to go thence in the spring to Germany. 
Thursday September 7, 1854. The fine rain of last night has purified and cooled the atmosphere to a charm. In Treas. office all day. The entrances I think are rather beyond those of last year, being for the last two days alone about 30, of whom 14 are Freshmen. There seems to be a growing disposition among our young men to fall back into this class and to take a more thorough course and [in] consequence they come better prepared for college. .
Some of the friends of College are looking for very much larger accessions this fall as a consequence of the Jubilee in July. I am not among that number; if we gain 10 or 15 upon last year, it will fully meet my expectations. Still I hope mY judgement may be in error. It is a fact not to be denied that U. C. is not any longer popular with the community; its morality and religious tone are not respected; it is thought to tolerate or at least to wink at vice and its discipline is believed to be lax and unsafe. Whether right or wrong, this impression does prevail and time alone can counteract it. Jubilee Prize Scholarships, Charity funds, and humbug cannot overcome the want of confidence in a literary institution. 

Friday September 8, 1854. Fine, moderately warm day. This evening after 9 o'clock, a refreshing shower. My predictions of yesterday of a moderate increase of students to Coll. can hardly be said to be verified by todays experience. The number of entrances (new) since Commencement has now reached 71, at least 25 more than last year at this time. I am truly glad _that my predictions have proved untrue. Now the question arises, what shall we do with them? All our rooms are full and still there is a large call for more! Of course we can only point them to the town for lodgings and indeed in any case I think it best they should go there. I deprecate the building up of a great monastery on the hill, filled with [a] boorish set of 
monks. 
5 o'clock. Faculty Meeting in the Treas. Office. Present: President 
Nott. Profs. Hickok, Jackson, Lewis, Foster, Gillespie, Newman, Peissner, and 
Pearson. Read the course of study, which after emendations, was ordered 
posted up for the information of students. Discussed various matters such 
as Sabbath attendance at ch[urches] by the young men. How to better it, 
how to detect absences, how to prevent false statements &c&c. Some said 
have a monitor in each ch., others said depend upon each man's own honor 
as at present and trust to his word that he had attended &c&c. Then 
discussed the keeping of the rooms and halls clean. 
Prof. J. Personal cleanliness is quite as necessary to be looked after 
as the morals of the students. The rooms are dirty, the servants do not do 
their duty.They are not numerous enough, they do not have time enough 
to keep their halls clean. 
I. I think the rooms and halls are quite as clean as our arrangements will allow of. What can you do with half a cord of wood in one corner, beds, stove, trunks, chairs, tables, boots and shoes, wash stands, wardrobes, and two young in one little room 1 7 x 15 ft? 
[Prof J.] How would you get rid of the wood? 
I. Have a long wood shed with stalls for each room, and a neat wood box in each room, with servant to keep it full. 
President. Well, Pearson, its your business to see to the servants that they do their duty. 
I. Not so, sir, I am Treasurer; it is my duty to receive and pay out money; so far I know my duty but I have never had my duties defined farther. Indeed there is neither law nor gospel for the Treas. that I could find in any of of our books. 
President. But Holland always overlooked this business. 
I. So he did because he was Register, which I am not, and never felt that I was treading on my own ground when I undertook to oversee the ordinary business of College. Always feared I might be treading on some body's toes, &c&c. So, after much more desultory conversation about slop pails, chamber pots, chloride of lime &c. the matter was left where it was found and Hon. Fae. adjourned to tea!! 

Saturday September 9, 1854. Rained all night bountifully and moderately most of the day. The number of College "entrances" amount tonight to 83 -.the greatest drawback being the ready supply of rooms. The townsmen, not being much in the habit of renting rooms to students, are somewhat unprepared for so great a demand for lodgings; hence the difficulty at first; but let there be a constant demand and there will not fail to be a corresponding supply. Notwithstanding the present pres[s]ure for lodgings, which seems to call for an additional building for that purpose, I still think it unwise for the Trustees to yeild to the temptation even tho' their means were ample. Rather let them expand more upon the Library, Apparatus, and for additional Professorships and make the College more complete, perfect if possible, in all its advantages for an education, and leave lodging, boarding, tailoring, &c. to those whose business it is. A large boarding school, male or female, is an abomination; a large boarding or lodging College is the same. Say what we may of the oversight which it gives to the faculty over the morals and manners of the young men, it ls all a sham -.a fermenter of rows and rebellions, a nest of plots and contamination, where vice festers and virtue decays. I find, however, in the whole faculty of U. C. not one who fully coincides with me in this; so strong are habit and old custom in forming our views and opinions. Our Colleges nevertheless must come to this in the end, and SO years from now people will wonder how their fathers were so blind as to sacrifice the largest and best part of their funds in brick and mortar to build immense air castles when at the same time they suffered the tools and means of knowledge -the Libraries, App[aratus], Professors &c. to remain unendowed or very inadequately supported. 
Sunday September 10, 1854. Cool, clear atmosphere, comfortable and healthy. A.M. to Baptist church, heard Mr. Day. 
Monday September 11, 1854. So cool last night as to require a little fire and an extra blanket on the bed. Tis said there was frost in some places near. All day at recitations and busy in the Treas. office. My recitations are to be as follows: Morning, before breakfast, say at 6:20 o'clock, Geometry, Sophomore Class the whole of which numbering over SO, I take together at present and until our new tutor, Mr. Millard, arrives when he will relieve me of one half of them. 2d, 11 o'clock, Conics, one half of the Junior Class. 

3d, 4 o'clock, Conics, the other half. Between times at work in office; evenings, studying etc. thus my time is chopped among various duties which keep me constantly busy. 
Tonight our number of new accessions has arisen to 90, not including 2 who have lefi on ac[coun]t of not getting rooms to suit them. A little cholera still lingering about town, now and then a fatal case occurs, but not enough to alarm. Heard today of the death of a classmate, Elos L. Winslow, in California about two months since. He was from St. Lawrence Co. Taught some time there, studied law, engaged in engineering, and some two or three years since went to Cal. After making some money, he was about returning but died alone unattended, in a desert place, while on his way from one mining station to another. He was found lying dead upon the ground with his faithful mule by his side. He is said to have borne an excellent character for kindness and benevolence, and was generally beloved by the miners to whom he rendered many services in their sicknesses and difficulties. Alas, poor Winslow! what a sad end! Twenty years ago when we sat on the same benches in College, how little could we have thought that he would die, in the then unheard-of California, unattended and uncared for! 
[PHOTOHERE] 
Photograph of Wm. James Stillman N.Y. ,artist, graduate of Union College 
Tuesday September 12, 1854. Cool, cloudy, and threatening rain. One day's labors, now the term has begun, is like another's. Recitation and writing: recitation and taking money from students; to dinner; to the Bank and home again, answering letter &c&c. A most perplexing and thankless office is this of Treasurer because, altho' without power save in whatever pertains to the receiving and paying out of money, he is by a sort of tacit áconsent overseer of buildings and grounds and considered responsible for all mistakes, faults, delinquencies, and omissions that occur about College. The Treasurer is considered Superintendent but is without the force to carry out his intentions; he is a fair butt to throw all the various complaints against, an ass to bear all the burthens, responsible for all the failures that happen but with no authority to make his commands obeyed or even respectable. Who ls Superintendent? Nobody, and that is the case with every department of College; it is nobodies business to do anything, consequently all power falls into the President's hands without being specially delegated to him. He directs as jhe pleases, and when he pleases, 

but when a disagreeable thing is to be done or a hurtful thing happens, nobody is to blame, or the Treasurer. 
Wednesday September 13, 1854. The recent rains have somewhat revived such plants as have survived the unexampled drought, --grass is again green, but only feebly and for a short time. A blessed thing it is that such a thing as a universal drought never happens, thereby precluding the possibility of a universal famine and death. Even in our own country, altho' wide spread beyond precedent, it cannot be said to be general. The wheat and other early crops give fair yeild, and by reason of the abundance of other countries may fall in price to be within the reach of the poor. 
Thursday September 14, 1854. Cool nights and moderate days. On the whole this may be considered a sickly season. The cholera and its attendent diseases have been wide spread altho' not so severe in any one locality; it has continued long and now departs slowly. In many places of the southern country, at N[ew] O[rleans], Savannah, and Charleston &c. the Yellow 0aundice?] is now treading upon the heels of the former scourge. It has spread dismay and death in the Atlantic cities, South, and scattered the population and deranged business to a great degree. The last victim of the cholera in Schenectady was a Mr. Van Patten who lately returned from abroad where he has spent some years as an artist or as an attempted artist. 
Friday September15, 1854. The term may now be said to have well commenced; students are settling down into their places and suiting themselves with chums, cotbeds, pine tables and rickety chairs, and the Professors have got the harness on for the labors of the term. The class of students who have entered is as a whole a mature and well-disposed set, their faces and fram[e]s indicate the ability and disposition to labor and I think we have reason to expect a profitable and pleasant term. After many threats and make-believe blows against the Sophomores of last term for introducing a new and in prospect troublesome celebration --the 'burial of Logic' --after finding, writing to parents, and threatening that none should return to College, what's the upshot? All back, fines remitted, and nobody hurt. What's the moral effect? 
Saturday, Septemberl6, 1854. What lesson does the whole affair teach? Never to be frightened when one makes savage faces at you and fires pop.guns. Sham blows and humbug are soon understood and loose theirá 
([f9 
intended effect. So now the boys laugh in their sleeve and, having come off so easily, promise openly that next year, the thing shall be done up in a rather guess [grosser?] style than this year. What then would you have? Something or nothing, no threats not fully performed. The moral or rather immoral effect upon children, boys, or young men, of saying, or intimating what you do not intend at the time to do is disastrous in the extreme to all discipline and future influence. They soon see through your tricks, your authority is at an end and your object forever frustrated. 
Sunday Septemberl 7, 1854. Cool, bright, healthy day. To Presbyterian 
Church. Heard Mr. Backus. 
Monday September 18, 1854. Politics in season about this time. Conventions, resolutions, fierce war of words, nominations --and great, fierce contentions. All sorts of parties and "platforms," all sorts of juggling, all sorts of principles and no principles, swearing and forswearing, pledges and breaking of pledges --alas, poor country, if it depended for prosperity upon the faith of its demagogues and loud-sounding politicians! 
Tuesday Septemberl 9, 1954. Cool nights, pleasant days. A call from Dr. Franklin Hough of Albany, now engaged upon a work he calls the Civil List of N. Y., also indexing and arranging the papers in the Secretary of State's office. H. is a man of a good degree of industry, quick appreciation of the value of historical papers and rather happy in his arrangement of them. See his Histories of Lewis, Jefferson and St. Lawrence counties pub[lished] in the last 3 years in two stout vols., 8vo. It would be well for the state if such a person could be permanently employed about the public offices in preserving and indexing the documents, often lost and destroyed for want of such care. 
Wednesday September 20, 1854. Today came in upon us Aunt Davis of 
Staustead C. E. ~Church of England?] whom we have not seen these 25 years, Father's oldest sister, now 68 years of age. The family moved to Canada from Chichester N. H. about the year 1830. 
Thursday, September 21, 1854. Resident Trustees met this evening at Dr. Backus study. Among other business, directed the Treasurer to order Brown, Bros. N. Y. to give Prof. C. A. Joy a Letter of Credit for 1500$ to pay his expenses to Europe for the purpose of procuring apparatus for the New Laboratory of U. College. Joy starts tomorrow morning for N. Y. from whence he sails on the 30th for Liverpool. 
Friday September 22, 1854. Beautiful, balmy day after a cold night. Mr. 

and Mrs. John H. Edmonds of Utica at Dr Nott's last night on their way home from Swampscot Beach near Salem, Mass. Died Wed., Francis Myers, furnace man of 3d ward; Thursday, M. Dennis Haugh, butcher, instantly from rupture of bloodvessel; and Lawrence, John Nott's father in-law, of cholera. Bye the bye, "they say" John N. and wife have gone to Europe. Sarah Harvey, wife's sister, very sick --neuralgia --a dreadful, painful and almost incurable disease by ordinary medicines. 
Saturday September 23, 1854. Weather delightful. Wife and self started at 12 o'clock for Saratoga Springs to engage room for Sarah at Bedartha's Water Cure Hospital. Found every room taken but one. Walked about the village and grounds, drank a glass ofáCongress water, called on Mrs. Berry (Jane Dorland); to the rail[road] and home at 6 o'clock. Visitors all departed and the hotels about to close their doors on Oct 1. A dull place out of season --a great empty palace or hotel is far from a cheerful object or.from sugesting pleasant emotions. 
Sunday September 24, 1854. Warm and pleasant. Fa[therl Harvey arrived at 3 oclock A. M. from Cincinnati, 0. to see Sarah and make arrangements for removing her to Saratoga. To church at the Baptist Ch., heard Mr. Day preach a funeral sermon on the death of Mrs. Peter Vedder (Prudence Yates), a member of the Church. She died suddenly the past week. 
Monday September 25, 1854. Weather, genial and mild. Sister Mary Ann Magoun with Edward came today from Hudson to visit Aunt Davis. At 12 o'clock Sarah started for Saratoga Spgs. Prof. Foster away to Pittsburgh, Pa. to lecture, which gives me an additional recitation for the week ( 4 in all) -.the Fresh-per-day-men in Algebra. Old "Dick Sampson," an aged colored man, who more than 40 years ago was a servant about College, is dead. His age was probably some over 80. 
Tuesday September 26, 1 854. Weather warm. Mr. Harvey back from Saratoga. Sarah dreadfully afflicted with neuralgia, stood the ride tolerably well and commenced the cold-water treatment. Death has been active in Schenectady the past season, probably about 40 deaths have occurred from cholera, and many others from a variety of other diseases. There were 4 funerals on Sunday. 
Wednesday September 27, 1854. Beautiful day, just warm enough for comfort. Mr. Harvey started for Cincinnati, 0. and sister Magoun for Hudson at 4 o'clock. Talk with ________ on the subject of a new Library building and Museum to be connected with South Colonnade, 80 ft. x 60 ft. Stated my plan thus: Cellar for coal, furnaces, and storing generally. 1st story above with stone or tile floor on arches to be divided as follows: 

[DRAWING HERE] 
The second floor same, thus: 
[DRAWING HERE] 
the whole to cost with furniture say $10,000. This building will afford a temporary chapel, Library, and Register's and Treasurer's rooms and the whole may be eventually occupied for the minerals etc. Obstacles: How is the cost to be raised ? ________ says [he] wants to have the cheif control of the whole matter, to order how it ls to be built, when and how, to have all the credit of having done it himself, but to throw all the cost upon the Trustees. They on the other hand, if obliged to raise the money and put up the building, want to control the enterprize. _______ had rather the building would not go up at all, than lose the power of supreme direction. Here the two powers clash and one must yeild. á 
_______ says, "I'll go, see----"----and find out definitely if possible what are his views on the matter, how he thinks of proceeding. I shall know how to proceed with the III [three] in town and what to advise them. 
_______ says, 'They wont build. I shall have to do it myself." "By which," says _________ , "he means that he wont let them do anything. Wants to keep the reins in his own hands." 
Thursday September 28, 1854. Fine, mild day --too good to last long. My situation as Treasurer is quite anomalous and trying to ones' feelings; being expected to serve two masters whose wishes are diametrically opposite. ___ and III [the Resident Trustees] cannot agree as to the details and method of doing business. 
III say, "Follow the rules we have given you, strictly, yeild in favor of no one. ---"---says, "The rules are good; obey them in all cases save when I tell you differently." What follows? Who are my Masters, and the proper 

source of all power? The Trustees! Can a conscientious officer then swerve from the plain written instructions of his principals? If he does not, here in my case, a storm arises --an angry brow is shown; expostulation does no good; reasons, duty, conscience and law avail nothing to convince; desire and the wishes of the present moment overcome a better judgement and calm conviction. Laws are good for others but not for me. 
Two weeks since had a very angry and protracted dispute with---." growing out of the above reasons. Wanted me to purchase a farm of some $1500. value for his man. All right and proper if he choose to do so. How shall I make the payment demand? Buy it for College!! My instructions forbid the Treas. to purchase or sell real estate without the Ill's sanction; moreover they wish to sell, not to buy; to raise money for current and necessary expenses, not to pay it out for dead unproductive property. Then arose a storm which an hour's conversation could not allay. Had a strong disposition to resign for some days, but on farther consideration and a conversation with _______ concluded to hold on for a time. 
How strange that those great and good men, as we are accustomed to esteem them, should yet be subject to all the human frailties of smaller and meaner men! So it is. Great men have great faults, and none have more need of the charity of their fellows. A great man is great only in one thing; in all else he is just as likely to be mediocre as others, perhaps more likely. Approach not too near, therefore, to your idol lest you see all the painting and daubings, the defects, and the tinsel used to cover them. Its eyes may be diamonds of untold value: its feet and legs of clay and iron. "No man is a hero to his valet." 
Friday September 29,1854. Fine day but cooler than yesterday. Wife and Henry away to Saratoga Springs to see Sarah, and back again at 6 o'clock. S[arah] not much better but encouraged to expect amendment in 3 or 4 days. 
A portion of Dr. Notts trust fund for Un. College consisting of $90,000 in mortgages, yeilds no income by reason of a lawsuit throwing doubt upon the validity of the title. Altha' eventually almost sure to be decided in our favor, still until so decided the mortgages draw no interest, consequently the Coll. loses the anticipated and much needed income. Dr. N's agent in 
N.Y.has now made an arrangement with the opposite party by which, for $20,000 in cash, the suit may be withdrawn and the securities rendered immediately available. Quere. How to raise $20,000 in cash? Shall College advance the sum out [of] its scanty capital? By so doing the State funds will be so much farther reduced. Shall the Trust property pay it? By so doing the conditions and directions of the Deed will be broken. Shall the sum be at some future time repaid out of the income of the Trust fund? That looks far into the future. A meeting of the Resident Trustees is to be called tonight to consider these questions and decide upon a course of proceedure. 

Saturday September 30, 1854. Fine day, a little cooler than heretofore. White frost this morning. Mr. Millard, our new tutor-elect appeared today, from Poughkeepsie where he has taught one year in Mr. Bartletts Collegiate School. The meeting of Resident Trustees last night resulted in nothing. President N. presented his plan of removing the lawsuit on Trust Property in N. Y., of building new Library building, of furnishing the Chem. Laboratory &c&c. but it failed to meet the approbation of the Gentlemen present. Here again another unpleasant and vexatious difference, which may delay some of the above projects beyond the most convenient and desirable opportunity. The two powers have each their own views of what is flt and proper in the finances of the College, but unfortunately these views are as opposite as the two poles. It is now proposed to hold a meeting in Albany on Monday, call upon Lowber to meet the Trustees there and explain the state of the property and securities in New York and from all the light thus afforded to act upon the Pres't. projects. 
Sunday October 1, 1854. Cool day. Cloudy and a sprinkling of rain in the evening. To Pres. Church. Rev. Dr. Halley of Troy preached upon the unnatural rebel[l]lon and character of Absolom and gave a warning to young men founded upon this history. A very eloquent, pointed and effective discourse, notwithstanding a cold church and dull weather. Aunt Davis started for home (Canada) yesterday at 12 M. 
Monday October 2, 1854. Three deaths of cholera last night and this morning. The change of weather of late from hot to cold is thought to have given it a fresh start. Same in Albany so the papers say. Had a talk with ________ on the late financial projects of ----"----find he agrees entirely with the III in town. He considers these projects quite impracticable and disastrous to the college, if allowed, and favors the Ill's taking matters into their own hand[s] and acting with firmness, yet with kindness towards the ----11----. The new Library building in contempla.tion, he thinks, they will consent [to] build and to borrow the money for that purpose, constituting themselves a building committee for that purpose. 
Tuesday October 3, 1854. Rainy more or less all day and evening, but not cold. Mr. Millard commenced his first recitation today in Algebra, Freshman Class in No. 7 (New Phil. Hall). Tomorrow morning I divide my Sophomore Class in Geometry (60 in all, present) with him, keeping 30 of them. This evening at 7 o'clock met in No. 7 (New Phil. Hall) to examine Freshman Candidates for Dr. Nott's Scholarships. Professors present. Dr. Hickok, Lewis, (Jackson, 15 min.), Gillespie, Newman, Pearson, Peissner and tutor Millard. Candidates 9 in number. After some preliminary talk as to how the Exam. should be conducted: I. Inquired of them how much they had studied in each of the required studies. II. Next proceeded to ask general questions on English Grammar (by Prof. Newman). III. ditto on Arithmetic (by self). N. ditto on Latin Grammar (by Prof Newman) when I came away at 9 o'clock. 
This morning, Dr. Nott: "Had a letter from Senator Talmadge in which he claims me as a believer in 'Spiritual manifestations."' (Then showed me the letter) "There must be something in all this mass of facts on 'rappings,' 'mediums,' &c. but tis difficult to tell whats true from what's false. The fact of "spiritual' influences however is not contrary to the Bible but rather in accordance with it; the demons of the New Testament seem to have been something of this kind --disembodied spirits of an evil nature. Perhaps this animal magnetism is only another phase of the same thing. Shouldnt wonder if there was something in clairvoyance. I knew a person once under its influence to read a book in a perfectly dark closet; when opened, she complained that twas so dark she couldnt read any longer. Great sensiblilty of certain senses is not an uncommon thing. When I came back from the cold-water establishment (some years since) my fingers were so sensitive that the smothest paper seemed to have sand on it and I could distinguish paper that had been written on from blank paper with the greatest ease --soon lost this power, however." 
Wednesday October 4, 1854. "Clearing-off shower" about S o'clock this morning; poured in torrents. Fine clear day, cool but not uncomfortably so. Foster returned today, having been gone 12 days. Freshman prize scholarship examination continued this evening, in Greek language by Dr. Lewis. Candidates are as follows: Colman, Leitch, J. M. Price, A. D. Price, Taylor, Lincoln, Peterson, Gardner, Fuller. The examination consisted I. of general questions on the grammar and II. of translations made upon paper in a given time, say 20 m. These were read and criticized. Gentlemen pre.
I/if 
sent: Rev. Dr. Backus, and Seelye, Profs. Newman, Hickok, and self. 
Wife, self, Henry and John are intending to leave for N. Y. tomorrow to stay till Saturday, cheif object to see M's sick Bro. Mahlon. Foster hears my Sophs. in Geometry, Juniors in Conics. I hear all together tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock. My rule is never to miss a recitation or other important duty for my own private reasons unless it be for sickness, as in this case. A Prof's time especially during the session belongs to the College, to his pupils, and no demands of ordinary kind of his own should ever be permitted to interfere. 
New York City Thursday October 5, 1854. Fine, mild, pleasant day. Up at 6 o'clock. Heard Sopho. in Geom., home to breakfast; to College and heard Juniors in Conics at 9 o'clock (instead of 11 and 4), and at 10 o'clock off with wife, Henry, and John for N. Y. Every thing prosperous, just warm enough, no dust on.the railroad, no detentions, and arrived at 31st street at 4:20 P. M. where 
F. J. Hosford, wife's cousin, met us. (At Hudson, saw sister M. A. Magoun and Edward M .. Walked over to Seventh Avenue to see Mahlon, wife's bro. --not in. Off in the "Bus" to Fulton ferry, across to Brooklyn and to 162 Washington St. where F. J. H. lives. For so long a ride, the whole quite fresh. 
Friday October 6, 1854. Delightful day. After breakfast to the Chrystal Palace with the boys, their first visit. Self and wife visited the exhibition last year in August several days, few things therefore new to us, many now wanting: the whole meagre and thin compared with that, still well worth a days examination. Visitors few, mostly drawn off to the great state Agricultural Fair in Hamilton Square, of which this is the last day. Five o'clock P. M. called again to see Mahlon, who has suffered somewhat from a hemor[rh]age of the lungs, found him comfortable, able to walk about and hoping to be able in a short time to be about his ordinary business. Home to Brooklyn at 6 o'clock tired and hungry. 
Schenectady Saturday, October 7, 1854. Warm day. Started from Chambers Street station on Hudson R[iver] R. R. at 12 o'clock with heavy train, and came thro' to S. at 7 P.M. without accident, rather warm and much more dusty than two days since. At Hudson, again saw sister, Magoun and Edw. a moment at the station. Found all well at home. Thanks to an overruling Providence for our safe conduct and return! Tired and off to bed early. 

Sunday October 8 ,1854. Beautiful, mild, autumn day, rather "Indian summery." Whole family to Baptist Church where a stranger preached. 
Monday October 9, 1854. Fine weather. One day in College is much like another, the same routine of bell-ringing and recitations. A case of fever in Colt, W. L. Wilson Senior [Class] from near Canonsburgh Penn.; telegraphed for his bro. by his request. 
Dr. Lewis has edited what is called the "Editors Table" in Harpers Magazine now going on 4 years for which he receives about $400 pr. year. Lately the proprietors, wishing to propitiate the southern slavery sentiment, propose to insert an article from a Southern clergyman in the place of his own; to which he demurs for the very proper reason that, inasmuch as it is pretty well known that he is the editor of that de.partment of the magazine, he might be thought to be responsible for sentiments quite foreign to him. Yet he feels it rather necessary for him to continue this editorial labor because his salary as Professor ($1000) does not afford a sufficient support for his family. Here again comes up the oft.repeated question, "When will the Trustees do something for us?" 
Dr. L. "I must go unless the salaries are raised, I have made all my arrangements to do so." 
I. "I think the Trustees wish to do so, and will endeavour to do so 
before the quarter comes round, have frequently heard them say so." Dr. L. "Then why do they delay; why not arrange the matter at once?" 
I. "Cant say why. Such conversations are common; one with another, Professor." 
Always grumbling and in this case, with reason, but never attaining to their wishes. Promises are common and frequent and so long as----"---.finds they can be put off with empty assertions, so long nothing better is obtained. 
My rule in regard to all the rumors and projects about U. C. -.wonderful buildings to go up, salaries to be increased, prizes to be given and what not --is to believe nothing till I see it begun and past going back, to walk by sight not by faith. For years beyond my remembrances U. C. has lived on vain hopes of what it was to be, or was to have, and this and that thing has been promised so often that they have become a bye word and a standing joke. It is no different now. Our good things are now as ever some 4 or 5 years ahead: then we shall be rich and "increased in goods and have need of nothing." Miserable hopes! In the meantime, the Profs. are starving or getting irretreivably in debt and when relief comes, if, ever, 'twill be too late to bring cheerfulness and joy. Extorted justice ls always 
I I b1 
received without thankfulness and affords but miserable pleasure. 
Tuesday October 10, 1954. Weather ditto. It is so seldom that our staid city is moved from its accustomed dead level of ordinary routine that even a disreputable row affords a pleasurable topic of conversation. The news of the day is that two men were shot last night at a Dutch Dance at "Tammany Hall," a low grog tavern, comer of Union and Ferry Streets. It happened on 
áthis wise. Capt. Fritschy's Dutch Military Company closed a days' target shooting with a ball at the above house, in the course of which certain "rowdies" attempted a disturbance of the hilarity by intruding upon the company. This was resisted and the fellows were driven from the Hall at point of the bayonet. On ral[l]ying a second time, they were met by a discharge-of muskets, a part of which at least were loaded with ball and powder. One man's leg was badly fractured, 'tis said, and will require amputation. Thus ended the target practice. To increase the disturbance a false alarm of fire was raised and Chelf Constable Kittle,, in attempting to catch one of the rogues fell over a heap of rubbish and dislocated his shoulder. Here's a chapter of Schenectady gossip. 
Wednesday October 11, 1854. Weather ditto. The cheif topic of talk today is the painful news of the loss of the Steamship Arctic off Cape Race and the loss of nearly 400 persons, many of whom belonged to well-known families. 
The first class I knew in College was that graduating in 1832. As I entered Freshman in 2d term, January, 1832, my acquaintance was but limited with individual members of lt. Many of them, however, I have since followed and kept pretty well versed in their history. In 1842 at the Decennial meeting of the Class a list of the class was printed with remarks upon each member; this is now scarce. 
Thomas Allen, the first name in the Catalogue, studied law. Soon after, he went to Washington D. C. and edited a political newspaper for a time, I think the Madisonian; married Col. Benton's daughter, moved to St. Louis, Mo. and became President of the Pacific R. R. Co., then building, and one of the moving spirits of this enterprise. Lately I am told he resigned this office and has retired with an ample fortune. 
William Austin 183 2 I recollect as a very pretty boy when in College, of very youthful appearance and of not much energy. He settled in N. Y. as a lawyer and has not probably distinguished himself much. 
Rev. Orio Bartholomew and A.P. Cummings were two pretty old Seniors when they graduated. I remember them best as worthy Christian men in whose room we usually assembled every evening at 9 o'clock P. M. for section prayers. Cummings was a very successful newspaper agent, 
[lb 8 
particularly of the New York Observer of which he afterwards became and 
now is part proprietor. He married a Miss Prine, sister of one of the editors. 
The two Bradfords 1832 were young, handsome youths, good singers, amiable and generally beloved. "Ally" has since become somewhat distinguished as a lawyer and is now Surrogate of N. Y. City, a very important and responsible office. 
John W. Brown became an Episcopal Minister. He was somewhat partially inclined even in College. Settled in Astoria, taught a female school there, became latterly editor of the Protestant Churchman. Visited the Mediterranean for his health and died there of consumption. He was a ready writer and highly esteemed by his brethren of the Low Church party. 
"Life" Cramer 1832 settled early in Milwaukee where I am told he owns a large property. 
Rev. E. B. Crane settled over the Church in Saybrook, I think, as early as '35 or '36 and has resided there ever since. I think, however, he is not now pastor of the Cong. Ch. Rev. Jonathan C. (D.D. 2) settled about the same time in Attleboro, Mass. and only left there this year for a church in New York City. They were both sons of Jonathan Crane, long-time a citizen of Schenectady. 
"Billy" Dunn 1832 I am told was killed in a duel soon after leaving College. Ferris Foreman 1832 I am told served thro' the Mexican War in the Illinois Regiment as Col., returned, and now resides at or near Vandalia, Ill. 
Wm. H. Hadley '32 became a clergyman and was lately serving as City Missionary in Portland, Me. Before this, however, he tried various ways for a living, once selling*****, again selling shirt co[l]lars &c. Married a widow and family who are said to have been too great a burthen for him. 
David R. Floyd Jones, flourished for a while in N. Y. as a Tam.many Hall politician and served one term at Albany as State Senator. He is now a farmer at Oyster-Bay, his native place. 
"Linc" Knowlton! '32. If he did not die a dissipated man, the early promise of his College life must have disappointed his acquaintances in the result. 

James I. Lowrie '32 taught for some time after leaving College at Union Vlllage, studied law and served as county judge. In college he was thought a "smart young man." 
Merrit G. McKoon has adopted teaching as a profession. He first acted as principal of Oxford Academy, then of Little Falls Acad., then of the DelhiAcademy, Del. Co., and lastly he goes back to his original school at Oxford. I am told he is well adapted to his profession. 
"Hane" Messier '32 had wealth and lives a retired gentleman not far from Poughkeepsie. 
E. D .G. Prime (Rev.) '32 has been asst. editor for a time of the N. Y. Observ[e]r, and now goes to Rome as chaplain of the Am. Prot. Chapel at Rome. 
R. 0. Reynolds '32 I hear has become a dissipated man, as his early habits promised, tho' a lawyer of more than common ability. Jesse C. Smith ('32) has become somewhat distinguished as a lawyer in Brooklyn --is surrogate of the county, Militia Colonel and what not. 
But of all the distinguished men of the Class of 1832, perhaps no-one has made so much noise in the world as "Chev:alier Wykoff," who a year or two ago attempted to abduct an heiress (Miss G.) at Genoa, failed, was imprisoned and finally released. The papers now say he figures among the notables of Paris, in what capacity I know not. He seems to be a complete specimen of the "adventurer," and is said to be the illegitimate source of one Wetherell of Philadelphia, who educated him. 
C. -E. West L.L.D. chose teaching as a profession and somwhat distin.guished himself as Principal of Rutger's (young ladies') Institute N. Y., from whence he went to Buffalo and commenced a ladies school of his own. 
N. A. Hinman died of consumption in College and was buried in the College burial ground so[uth] of the South College in the winter or spring of 1832. 
Thursday October12, 1834. Signs of rain early which began to fall by noon moderately and from the south. Warm. Cheifly engaged with the Resident Trustees who held an informal meeting at Judge Paiges office. Present: Dr Nott, Judge Paige and Mr. Cochrane. Subject, the transfer of the Tilden mortgage of $10,200 to Dr. Nott for the purpose of buying off Thayer and Flagg, who have commenced a suit against him on a trumpery claim of a portion of the Stuyvesant Cove property on which College holds certain mortgages belonging to the Nott Trust Fund, now drawing no interest by reason of said suit. The difference of opinion arose as to who should pay 
l l 7D 
.the $20,000 claimed by them. Lowber, Dr. Notts agent [and] the owner of the property and mortgagor, said College ought to raise the amount. Trustees said no. Lowber then agreed to pay $5,000, College to meet the balance. Trustees still held out. Finally the two parties agreed to divide the amount equally, Lowber paying $10,000 and College $10,000. Secondly, How shall College pay this $10,000? Out of its own meagre fund, not now sufficient to meet the state funds, or shall the Nott Fund pay its own expenses, bear its own burthens? 
Dr. N. desired College to meet this demand. Trustees said no and carried the question. But to enable the Nott Fund to raise $10,000, College substitutes the Tilden mortgage, now due,, for one of Lowbers mortgages to the Trust Fund, and not due, by which exchange Dr. N. is enabled to raise the money and pay off the suit. Dr. Nott goes down to N. Y. tomorrow on this business and Judge Paige on Monday next. I hope in mercy to alf concerned this long contested suit will now be closed and a portion of the Trust fund be released from embargo, to furnish an income for the already famished College. 
Harrison Gray Otis Babcock 1833 studied law and practiced for a time in New York City, but early habits of dissipation and intemperance grew stronger by indulgence and he died in less than 10 years from his graduation, a very degraded and lost man. He was only kept out of the poor house by the charity of friends. 
Abraham Bailey 1833 led a similar course to the above. Intemperance was his bane and reduced him to great straits and poverty: he attempted reformation and for a time succeeded, but I believe at last returned to his old habits and died, probably at Milwaukee. 
David Boyd 1833 has been a respectable medical practitioner for many years in Ballston Centre; son of Cashier Boyd of the Old Mohawk Bank and 
bro. of John Boyd, the old teller of the same Bk. 
James Campbell 1833 died early, I believe. He intended to study theology, perhaps commenced, but never preached. Consumption, I have heard, was his disease. 
William Cassidy, I think, never studied a profession but soon com.menced editing the Atlas in Albany. He is somewhat noted as a sharp political partisan and caustic, unscrupulous writer. 
Warren Dake (1833) was drowned on Commencement morning. He went with others to the Mohawk to bathe near Freemans Bridge, got beyond his depth and sank. His parents arrived soon after to hear their son speak his Com[mencemen]t oration and were met with the astounding news of his death. Chester, his class-mate, gave a hastily prepared eulogy 
áII71 
upon him. Gilman Dane (1833) I well knew as a singing master; he died early without having studied a profession. 
Saml. Freeman, a Schenectady boy of not brilliant parts but great industry. His family was poor. He went to Ga. and settled there as a lawyer and has never returned. I am told he has been tolerably successful in his profession. The most culpable act I ever knew him to do was to discard a young woman, a Miss Ward, to whom he was engaged when in very humble circumstances as soon as he graduated and met with some success in the world. She afterwards married a carpenter, Wakeman Clark, and died some years since. She was a daughter of Deacon Ward of the Baptist Church. 
Friday October 13, 1854. Weather fine. Appointment made to examine students who have been absent and for "conditions" on their first entrance. Met at No. 7 at 7 o'clock this evening. Profs. Foster, Newman, Gillespie, Peissner and Pearson and Tutor Millard but, no students appearing, adjourned. 
Rev. E.A. Huntington D.D. was early settled over the 3d Presbyterian Ch., Albany, where he has remained till this year when he was appointed Prof. in the Theol. Seminary at Auburn and accepted the appointment, according to report. He and the lamented Savage married sisters, daughters of Rev. Dr. Van Vechten of Albany. 
John Mills 1833 was thought to be a young man to be envied while in College: he was handsome, of good and easy address, and wealthy. The world seemed to smile upon him. After leaving College he flourished for a while, formed expensive habits, went abroad, returned no better for his journey, soon spent his patrimony and died leaving a family without the means of support. 
C L. Mitchell is a Physician of some note in Brooklyn. 
Joseph Mullin is a lawyer of more than ordinary talents and note in Watertown. He was lately one of the candidates for Chelf Justice of the State but failed of election. 
Daniel Pratt has become a Judge, resides at Syracuse. When in College he was uncouth and unpromising in his appearance, but industry has overcome his early disadvantages. 
Edward Savage became a tutor and Professor. He was a man of promising talents and met with success in his profession but consumption early carried him off. He went south for his health and died in Florida soon after his marriage to Miss Van Vechten. 
Saturday October 14, 1854. Rain, abundant toward and during the night. Commenced putting up, assorting, labeling &c. my dried plants preparatory 
I (7).
to sending them to Europe to Prof. C.A. Joy for exchange there. Dr. and Mrs. Nott to N. York yesterday. The weather throws a dull gloom over everything. Nothing talked of but the awful loss of the Arctic by collision with the Propeller Vesta. 
Sunday October15, 1854. Weather cleared up, cool. Leaves falling rapidly. Signs of winter and decay all around. To Presbyterian Church with family. Heard Rev. John Woodbridge, a young man. Nearly the whole family are ministers: Father in N. Orleans, La. One bro. in Bernicia, Cal. Another in Baton Rouge, La. Another ___ . 
Monday October 16, 1854. Pretty cold, but clear, pure bracing air. One Wilson, a senior from near Canonsburgh Pa., is very sick of typhoid fever. Fears are entertained that he will not live. Several other students are ailing of colds, diarrhea, &c. but not badly. 
Father, Mother, and John to Hudson on a visit, and Mother Harvey off early for Cincinnati, Ohio, alone, Sarah being now well enough to take care of herself for the fortnight longer she stays at the Cold Water Cure. Assorting plants, writing letters, answering questions, hearing recitations &c&c., a constant routine day by day. 
Tuesday October 17, 1854. Cool with slight rain. Dr. and Mrs. Nott home last night. 
John M. Scribner (1833) on account of his venerable age and wig was (very improperly doubtless) the butt and jest of the younger boys. He tried various occupations after leaving College, was a minister for a time at Schoharie where he married his wife and some property; after that published one or two small compilations for Engineers &c., and finally went into the manufacture of paper at Middleburgh where he now resides. 
Edward Shepherd, I am told, turned out badly. 
Paul Eugene Stevenson (1833) studied Theology, was settled at Williamsburgh for a while, then went to Wyoming, Penn., preached there and took charge of the Academy where he still resides. 
Rev. Daniel Stewart D.D. first settled in Ballston Spa, I think; soon after went to New Albany, Ind[ian]a and became Prof. in the Theol. Sem. there, left last year and was lately preaching in Camden, N. J. 
John H. Trotter ('33), who made some stir in College as a college scribbler and goodfellow, studied medicine and lives in Albany. Have heard nothing of him since leaving College. 
John Van Valkenburgh was a one-armed man. Became a farmer in Guilderland and still lives. Rev. Benj. Van Zandt, I think, preached first at Union Village, 2d at Kinderhook and 3dly at Nyack where he now lives. 
Il?3 
Alex. M. Vedder M. D. taught the Acad. for a white at Hudson, studied 
Medicine at Philadelphia, and commenced its practice at Schenectady 
where he now resides. He lectures to the Senior class on Anat[omy] and 
Phys[iology] in the summer term. 
Rev. William F. Walker, first figured largely at Troy by the establishment of the "Episcopal Institute," of which he was principal. He also preached there. By his extravagance and imprudence the school soon broke down and he left Troy deeply in debt. He next appeared somewhere out west near Chicago, I think, and after a while left there under a cloud. He was next rector of a Ch. in Conn. from whence he went to Brooklyn, N. Y. where his bad name and evil acts followed him and in the event caused his deposition from the Ministry by the Convention of his Church. His most flagrant act seems to have been the seduction of a young lady of his church in Conn. 
George S. Willis '33 was 1st a merchant in Troy from whence he went to Pittsfield, Mass. where he now resides. 
Rev. Daniel B. Woods was an oddity, son of Rev. Dr. Woods of Andover. He has preached in various places. Went to California, wrote a book about it, and I believe now teaches a school of some klnd in Philadelphia. 
James H. Yates, studied law latterly; at first, I think, he was an Engineer for a time. He has never been in any business, I think, till very lately when he went to Chicago, Ill. for a year or so, is now back to Schendy. Has lived mostly with his mother, an aged lady till her death recently, is not married, son of the Rev. Andrew Yates D.D., bro. also of the late Prof. Yates of Un. College. 
Alex. Fonda ' 33 did not graduate. Studied law, practiced in Schen.ectady for a time, first studied and practiced in N.Y. where he got into dissipated habits. Reformed for a while and promised well, went to Brooklyn, got into his old ways and died a miserable sot of delerium tremens only last year. 
Rev. James Richards D.D. did not graduate, has preached at various places with considerable success and finally settled in New Orleans; was son of the late Dr. Richards of Auburn Theol. Sem. 
Henry Sanford '33 died in College, a pretty, promising boy. 
James R. Vanvorst '33 has tried various kinds of business but seems to prosper in none; from law he went into trade, then into the Express business, and finally became a petty clerk in an office on the Central R. R. up the Mohawk. Habits not good. 
Wednesday October 18, 1854. 
Edward D. Allen '34 studied Theol., was settled a few years in some country town not far away and finally in Albany. He was a pious and suc.cessful minister and much beloved by his people, but an early death cut 
I17Lf.
short his usefulness. 
Rev. Emerson Andrews is, and always has been, a travelling evangelist of the Baptist denomination and pretty successful in his labors, which have been cheifly in Penn. and N. J. I last heard of him in Vt. A. was a huge man in College but has since grown to the size of a tun, with a great red face like the full moon, curly hair, smiling countenance and great good nature. With all his faults of self-esteem, vanity &c., I believe he has proved himself a useful minister. 
Thursday October19, 1854. Hiram Barney, lawyer, '34 of N. Y., has gained a good repute for business, and as a reformer, in temperance &c. 
Rev. Robt H. Beattie, I think, has been settled in West Milton since he commenced preaching. Altha' a modest and unassuming man, he is held in high repute by those who know him as a man of more than ordinary abilities. His written sermons show great thought and a fine imagination. I think he has lately left W. Milton for another Ch. 
E. A. Brown, lawyer, commonly called "Long Brown" in College to distinguish him from L. H. Brown," Short Br9wn" and from J. S. Brown, called "Yankee Brown," He was a man of some wit and unbounded good spirits, first commenced practice of law in Syracuse and after some years moved to Lowville. Married a sister of Caleb Lyon of Lewis Co. 
Friday October 20, 1854. Rev. John Stillman Brown '34 first taught a school in Buffalo, afterwards joined the "Roxbury Community" and has been for some years pastor of the Unitarian Ch. in Fitzwilliam, N. H. Married a Miss Ripley, once teacher in Miss Sheldon's School in Schenectady. B., I think, is not a man of great energy. 
Saturday October 21, 1854. A most delightful Indian-summery day. 
Rev. AT. Chester D. D., after graduating was a tutor in U. Coll. for a time, then settled in Saratoga Springs for many years and lastly became pastor over a Ch. in Buffalo (Presbyterian). C. is a man of very good talents and has been quite successful in his profession. 
Rev. E. Harrison Cressy D. D. became an Epis. Min. and was for many years settled in Tennesse but lately came to Auburn, N.Y. 
George F. Comstock, lawyer, has attained some note in his profession and was for a time during Mr. Filmores presidency solicitor of the Treasury at Washington. He has been at Syracuse, I think, since he left College. 
Sunday October 22, 1854. Weather ditto, too good to last long --a weather breeder! To Church, A. M. at Baptist., Mr. Day. P. M. to Pres. Ch., Dr. Backus. Now "plastering" the audience room of Baptist Ch.,' which has thus far remained unfinished. The Ch. worshipping in the lecture room. Pres. Ch. also improved by the introduction of gas (by Drs. Backus and Nott) and by furnaces for heating. Finally the Dutch Ch. are lighting their house by gas, the last in the city. 
Monday October 23, 1854. Weather delightful. Usual routine of College 
duties. 
James Duane Featherstonhaugh '34 was son of an English gent. who married the sister of James Duane Esqr. of Schen'd 1y. He early spent his and wife's property and returned to Eng'd. leaving two sons at least in this country. J. D. was educated by his aunt "Kitty" of Duanesburgh and after_ leaving College was engaged with his father on the N. Eastern boundary survey between U. S. and British possessions. His father became Brit. Consul at Havana subsequently and his son J. D., I think, remained with him there. Have heard nothing of him these many years. 
James Fuller, lawyer, has been in and about Schen. since graduating. On Commencement Day 1834 he spoke a piece upon the stage quite different from the one he rehearsed previously, in which he reflected severely upon the authorities of College. He is a man of good character and fair abilities. 
Joe Fullerton, poor fellow! commenced the practice of law in Mechanicsville but soon died, I am told, of intemperance. 
John Jay Hyde '34 was a man of some abilities but little application in College. He was much engaged in editing and writing for the Coll. Mag. called the "Parthenon," which for a time was quite a respectable periodical for college. This took up much more of his time than the regular College studies. After leaving I heard that he edited a newspaper for a time but where I know not and was engaged in some other projects. I doubt whether he has made as much of his talents as some anticipated. The last closing scene of his stay in College was of a somewhat unpleasant nature. The Parthenon was managed by a club called the Parthenon Society, a selection from the Senior Class of the best men in it. The day before Com't. 1834 the Senior Parthenians met to pass over their powers to us Juniors. In the meeting some old sores were chaffed anew and one Woodward reflected somewhat severely upon Hydes' conduct in the Soc., in answer to which H. raised a slender cane and struck W. over the head, drawing the blood pretty freely. In an instant all was confusion, the friends 
//7t 
of both men were on their feet and a general fight was expected, but fortunately their discretion overcame their passion and the combatants were seperated. Th us died the Parthenon. The Society never met again. 
John B. James was a companion and roommate of Hyde. Being a son of "Billy James" of Albany and having large expectations of wealth, it did not seem necessary that he should exert himself to become a student. He has lived what is called a genteel life in N. Y. and Albany without any business. 
"Shube" Lansing '34 settled in his native place as a merchant and speculator and is, I am told, a wealthy man, with the average amount of liberality and public spirit. 
Sam'l McArthur, I am told, is a professor or rather President of the College in New Concord, Ohio. Charles Morley '34 has led a vagabond life teaching, preaching (I think) peddling books, and lastly peddling pills. 
J. K. Murphy was son of Rev. Dr. Murphy, did little or nothing in College, and I know not whether he has done anything out of it. 
J. H. Paige '34, lawyer, settled for many years in Lewiston, N.Y., got into dissipated, low habits, returned to Dunbarton, N. H. and died soon after. 
Rev. Wm. Putnam, I have heard nothing from these many years. He used to be the butt of idle mischeivous boys, and sometimes suffered severely from their practical jokes. 
Rev. E. Rowley '34, I think, has taught most of the time these 20 years. Now for a long time in Asheville, N. C. 
Rev. Monty Schuyler settled early in Buffalo over an Episcopal Church and is there still. He had a controversy some time since with Dr. Thompson of B [?] on Episcopacy and I think wrote a book on the subject. 
Rev. E. H. Sears, a Unitarian min[ister] of more than ordinary ability and reputation in his denom. in Mass. He is a poet withal --wrote the ode at the last Jubilee in July '54. 
Rev. John Skellie, nicknamed "Scaly" in College, preached for some years but in the end, I am told, gave up the profession and turned farmer, somewhere in Mich. 
Adam Y. Smith, lawyer, of pretty good abilities, died lately in Miss. Isaac Smith M.D., but never practiced it, has wealth and no disposition to much labor, dabbles a little in Nat. Hist., nothing more. 
Sam'l D. Tillman '34 was a friend and confederate of Hyde in the Parthenon which took the greater part of his time in College. T., I think, never practiced any profession but became a merchant or manufacturer -.am told he has no ostensible occupation now. 
T. R. Van Ingen became a very respectable lawyer in Schend 'y and was fast acquiring a competence and friends when he died of cholera in 1849, much lamented by all who knew him. 
1177 
E. A. Warner from his stature called "Ducklegged," died many years since in Mich. Rev. John H. Woodward has not been heard from since he left Coll. altho' I know he is somewhere in Vt. (see Hyde) 
The two Allens '34, brothers, are engaged in agricultural implements &c. in N .Y.city. 
A. F. Bell, lawyer, promised to make a bad man while in College but I am told he has taken a good stand in Mich. and is held in estimation by those who know him. 
Tuesday October 24, 1854. Delightful day, calm, mild, balmy like summer. Received a letter from Dr. N. Bedortha of the Water Cure at Saratoga that Sarah was worse. Started with Mary at 1 o'clock to visit her and after crawling along 3 hours arrived at 4 o'clock, found her in great pain from her old complaint, neuralgia, brought on again by a cold. Mary staid and I returned alone at 6 1/2 o'clock. 
Fenn C. Alvord '35 in college was known for his propriety, good scholarship and industry. After leaving he studied theology at Auburn and was licenced to preach; about this time he seems to have become engaged in some scheme or schemes for making money, whether successful or not, I know not, but he went on step by step downward till at last he became a complete blackleg, preying upon society in whatever way he best could. 
Rev. Silas K. Ashmun was not a man of large calibre in College and has not shown himself otherwise since leaving, altho' a good acceptable country clergyman. For a time he taught in a town in Western N. Y. and was pastor for some years in Henrietta N. Y., but last year he moved to Waupun, Wis. He married a daughter of Mr. Adrian VanSantvoord of this city. 
Rev. Henry Belden '35, one of my cronies in College, a good-natured laughing fellow, ripe for mischeif and often in it, but never malicious or revengeful. About the time of his graduation B. travelled off into Penn. lecturing on the Abolition of Slavery and met with some hard rubs in his tour. He then studied theology and commenced preaching, I think, in Montgomery, Orange Co. After a time 'tis said he became tinged with some unorthodox opinions, "Perfectionism" &c. which made his stay inconvenient and he left. Next I heard of his settlement in Boonton, N.J. and not long thereafter at Montgomery again over a little Ch., a fragment I think of his former Congregation; and finally he has settled over a small Congregational Ch. in New York City. B. is undoubtedly a good man and useful minister altho' not making much noise in the world. 
John Bigelow seems to have gone early to N. York City, and so long as I have heard from him has been one of the editors of the Evening Post. 
Henry R. Blain, an estimable excellent young, taught a few years and 
ll7fr 
died early. 
Thomas S. Brownell '35 was a son of the present Bp. of Conn. B. was no scholar, lazy, and dissipated. After leaving he acted as engineer for a time and I think was somehow employed in the U.S. Navy, but died early. 
Seth Bunnell was a rough stick and the butt of the frolicksome boys; altho he died early he was for a few years a useful minister in Glenville, N.Y. 
I think James Chamberlain preached at Cohoes a short time before his death. 
Caleb Clapp '35, an Episcopal Minister in N. Y. City since his admission into orders, a graduate at the Gen. Theol. Sem., N. Y., and constant and inseparable companion of Haskins of class '36 so that [they] got to be known in College as the "Siamese twins." 
Henry B. Cleveland '35 taught first in Kentucky, went farther south to Natchez and practiced law (?) and finally brought up in Indianola, Texas, where he is now a prosperous merchant. 
Henry M. Collier, a lively, smart little fellow, no scholar, but a very companionable young man. Studied law and practiced at Binghamton, then at Albany whilst his father was Comptroller, and lastly back to B[inghamton again where he ls now a lumber manufacturer. 
Alex. H. Curtis, nicknamed "Deacon," was somewhat wild and unstudlous in College, altho' of good natural abilities. Studied law and practiced in Cleveland, 0. with some success but died in 1841 of fever. 
Rev. John B.Dales D.D. of Phlla., Penn., altho' somewhat uncouth in his exterior and unpromising while in College, is said to have made a highly useful and esteemed minister. He studied Theol. at the Scotch Pres. Seminary in Newburgh and settled early in Phila. where he now resides. 
Simeon and Reuben Dederick were two staid, plodding, thick-head.ed Dutchmen from Claverack. They both became Lutheran Ministers, but Simeon has turned farmer, and Reuben, I am told, Universalist preacher. 
Rev. J. Sewall Eaton, I knew in the New Hampton (N. H.) school and afterwards in College. He entered Georgetown (Ky.) College and came from thence here. He was not a prime scholar altho' somewhat given to composition and speaking in which he was quite respectable. Even before leaving College he was an exhorter or, perhaps I may say, preacher. He studied Theol. at Newton Theol. Sem. (Mass.) and was just settled over a Bapt. Church in Hartford, Conn.; thence he went to Portland, Me., and as I hear is about to leave there on account of ill health of which he has complained these 20 years. "Jerry" had respectable talents but lacked 
firmness and perseverance; he was too changeable and fickle. He married his wife in Newton, Mass. . 
F s Ellas taught for a time in the Clinton Liberal Institute. J~~es c.'Forsyth '35 has unfortunately shipwrecked character, fortune, 
1179 
and the confidence of his friends and, to keep clean of the penalties of the law, has fled the country. F. was lazy, and inclined to vicious habits even in College. He studied law and practiced in Kingston, became a county judge, married a wealthy wife, daughter of Hasbrouck, engaged in politics and was Whig Candidate for Comptroller a few yearsá since. His beset[t]ing sin, as it came out at last, was gambling, extravagance and show, and to provide for his pressing wants he finally forged a large amount of paper [in the names of?] his friends and relatives and, when concealment was no longer possible, left the country. 
Wednesday October 25, 1854. Weather delightful. 
Charly Franchot, an easy, lazy student, left Coll. and studied law; his health did not improve by his confinement to an office; he left and went upon a farm which he has cultivated till this time. 
Charly Hasbrouck never injured his health in College by study and has took to selling drugs in his native place, La.nsingburgh, having inherited his bachelor uncle's mortar and little property. 
Daniel A. Haynes was a smart little fellow in College and makes a good lawyer of more than ordinary promise. So repqrt says. LeRoy Holmes, lawyer, spent some years in N.Y. city with indifferent success, went to California a few years since and there died. 
Chauncey C. Joslin M.D. was rather an odd fellow of medium abilities. After trying the doctoring business some years in Saratoga Co. with indifferent success, he went also to California, where he made a little money, came home and settled down to make more of it. 
l l 80 
Rev. Duncan Kennedy D.D. '35 has attained a respectable position altho' not a great man. He has reached the highest point of his success probably and now rests upon his reputation. "Dunc" was not a brilliant scholar. He spent some time in writing and speaking, and early attained considerable facility in composition. He was old when he graduated. 
Thursday October 26, 1854. Weather ditto, only more so. 
Johnston Livingston '35 never profited by a college course. He came from too aristocratic a family to need study or application. After leaving Coll. he dawdled about N. Y. till by some lucky hit he went into the Express business and is now one of the Am. Exp. Co. doing a large and profitable business in N. Y. 
Lewis W. Mansfield has not done much. He has lived a quiet life in Waterford but , having literary tastes, has lately written a little book called "Up Country Letters." His health is poor, is deaf and very lately lost his wife. 
Owen Munson '35 is a dentist, went a few years since to Savannah or Augusta, Ga. but is now returned as far north as Washington, D.C. 
Johnny Nelden, "fat Johnny"! the heaviest man in the class, lazy, good-natured, and companionable. He became a merchant in his native place and still lives. 
Rev. James Nichols '35, were it not for some faults, might have been more successful in life. He was tutor in College for a time, Principal of Kingston Academy, then of the Young Seminary, Utica; left and became pastor of Pres. Ch. at Oneida Castle and finally became principal of the Geneseo Academy where he now lives altho' seeking another situation. 
On Monday last Rev. Mr. Seelye was married to Miss Libby James, daughter of Rev. Mr. James of Albany. 
Friday October 27, 1854. Weather ditto. After the usual days labor, started at 6 1/2 on rail for Saratoga Springs where arrived at 7 1/2, found Mary waiting anxiously for me and Sarah, poor Sarah, suffering as much pain as any poor mortal well can bear. Having nearly recovered her usual health, she took cold and relapsed. Now for a week she has suffered intensely and does nothing but groan and sigh, night and day, with great fortitude however and Christian resignation. To bed. 
Saratoga Springs Saturday October 28, 1854. Weather warm, sunshiny and mild as spring. Up at 6 1/2 and to Congress Sp[rin]g. 2 glasses, a walk about Clarks grounds near the Spg., to Bedortha's at breakfast at 7. Like most other water-cure hospitals, the food is simple, plainly cooked, and mostly 
l\(/ 
vegitable: thus rye, and rye and Indian, and wheat bread; rye, Indian, and wheat mush; cracked wheat mush; pulverized dried bread; farina; potatoes, common and sweet in various ways; butter, sugar, molasses, salt, milk and water (no tea or coffee). Meat once a day at dinner, squash &c&c. Except to a gourmo[u]nd, such fare is really no burthen, and is doubtless healthful and nutricious. The patients seem to eat heartily of it and are by no means sickly looking. There were present about 70. 
As to myself --loafed about the Village, to the old Cemetery sadly in decay, to the New Cemetery, bright new and pleasant, to the Empire Spring, with Mary, now quite popular for many diseases, &c&c. Saratoga, has all the appearance of what it really is in summer, the resort of much fashionable folly. The inhabitants seem to have caught many of the ways of the Beau Mende, drive dashing team Jehu-like, dress fashionably and gaudily, and strive to make a dash, show, and pretentions like the fashionables whom they see in the season. Every house seems to be a boarding house, the great hotels are expensively and showily fitted up but are only shingle palaces for a two-month season in mid.summer when all the fashion rush hither to flutter and sparkle for an hour and are then off for Newport and other watering places. 
Still, Saratoga spreads rapidly in all directions especially on the north and east, and has some very pretty and expensive residences and grounds. As one man said to me, Saratoga runs in debt 8 months in the year in anticipation of the influx of strangers the other 4 mos. It can hardly have a healthy growth except so far as the demand created by visitors shall warrant. Trade and manufactures must be light as the surrounding county is by no means celebrated for its fertility and products. 
Congress Spring alone is worth more than any other establishment in the Village, not excluding the great hotels. Eighteen to 20 men are employed the year round, with the most approved machinery driven by steam, in bottling the water. It sells readily and without any soliciting. It goes to all parts of the country, keeps well and loses nothing by age when well bottled. The income of the proprietors is variously estimated from $25,000 to 30,000 a year. 
Sunday October 29, 1854. To church A. M. Pres. Ch., Rev. John Woodbridge, a young man and graduate of Union College. House neat but small and well filled. Sermon very appropriate to the season, a funeral sermon in fact on the fading, dying year. Text, "All flesh is grass, &c. P. M. With Mary an hour to the Cemetery, back again. Sarah no better. 
Monday October 30, 1854. Up at 6 1/2 to Congr. Spg., to breakfast at 
7. Eight and 3/4 started on rail for home where arrived at 9 1/2 o'clock. The usual routine during the day. 
Andrew Oliver '35, lawyer, settled in his native place, Penn Yan, became county judge and now Member of Congress with prospect of re-election this fall. 
Frederic W. J. Pollard '35 became a clergyman of Epis. Ch. towards which he had a leariing while in College and which he joined before graduation. Was Congregationalist at first, but his sentimental, romantic character could not be satisfied with so unpoetical a sect. He early became extreme high Church and finally passed into the Romish Ch. and now officiates as priest in N. Y. 
Villeroy D. Reed '35 studied theology, settled over a Pres. Ch in Schuylerville and a few years thereafter returned to his native town, Lansingburgh, as pastor of the S[outh?] Pres. Church. R. is a sound, judicious, plain-preaching and useful minister, much beloved by his people and highly esteemed among his brethren. Alex. G. Reynolds '35 has followed teaching as a profession. Some years since he was in Germantown, Pa., thence to Washington 
D. C., thence back to Bedford, N.Y. , his native place, where he now has a boys' school. R. had some Math. tastes, but never excelled as a general school [teacher?] or in good common sense. 
Benjn. Richards '35 has cheifly followed teaching for his profession: 1st, tutor in Union Coll., then in Mich. with some other projects, thence to Columbia, S. C. in Dr. Marks female school where he got into some difficulty and left in disgrace, lastly to Canandaigua 
N. Y. where he now resides. Josiah S. Sacia '35, lawyer, settled and practiced some years in Canajoharie, took sick of consumption and died some years since. 
Rev. Richd. Thurston Searle '35, a man of very moderate talents but much assisted by a long course of study. Studied theol. at Andover and resided there a long time as Res. Graduate, preached in various places in Mass. as a temporary supply and finally settled in New Marlborough, Mass. where he now resides. 
Tuesday October 31, 1854. Warm and showery thro' the day with most brilliant and splendid [rain]bows at night. Heard today that Prof. John Nott is somewhere in Va. seeking, I suppose, a milder climate for his health. The oddity of the matter is that he had given out that he had gone to Europe. 
Jasper Smith '35, lawyer, first settled and practiced law in Syracuse for some years; not long since came to Albany and is now Clerk in the Secretary of State's office. J. is a man of moderate abilities, amiable, and of good habits. 
James C. Smith, lawyer, went to Mich. first and speculated some months in land plots, made a little money, returned, studied his profession and settled in practice at Lyons where he is accounted the leading lawyer of the county. He has been candidate for Mem[ber of] Congr[ess] and other offices. 
Rev. Levi Sternberg '35, I think has followed teaching as a profession, cheifly if not altogether at Hartwick, Otsego Co. 
Charles H. Stillman '35, one of three bros. who have graduated at U. C., viz. Jacob, Wm. J., and Chas. He studied medicine and many years since commenced practice in Plainfield, N.J. where he has a large and lucrative patronage. 
R. Mk. Strong '35 studied and practiced law in N.Y. from the time of his graduation till now. He Wqs my chum in College for about 4 years. I understand he is about retiring from practice having made or married a competency. S. is a man of great industry and perseverance, but not of brilliant parts. 
John J. Van Antwerp '35 was an old, staid heavy Dutchman when in College, studied theol., preached some at several places. Went west in what business I know not, returned to Amsterdam and died. Van was slow, dull and phlegmatic, but otherwise a man of worth. 
George Van Inwegen '35 studied law, became dissipated, dangerous, and outragious, until on making an attempt to kill someone --his own bro., I think --he was imprisoned at Sing Sing where he is now serving out his sentence. 
Cornelius Van Santvoord (has dropped the S. in his name (he says) was a good-natured, jolly fellow of moderate application but of tolerable abilities. Having studied theology, he married Dr. Westbrook's daughter and has been settled many years in Saugerties. Van makes a rather better than ordinary preacher, I am told. 
James L. Voorhees has never attempted much, I am told, but dawdles about Amsterdam without any visible. business, supported I suppose by his father, Dr. Voorhees. 
John Wells '35, lawyer, settled and still resides in Johnstown. He is held in good repute by those who know him and has served one term in Congress from his district; but declined renomination. 
Samuel B. Willis, commonly called in Coll. "Daddy Willis," was an excellent old gentlemen even while in College, left the Congr. Ch. and joined the Baptist in Schenectady, became a Minis[ter], settled for a time in Cattskill, then in or near Chatham since when I have lost track of him. He was not a man of brilliant genius but a useful and brilliant minister, doing much good wherever he goes. 
E. L. Winslow studied law and practiced the profession of Engineer to some extent, went to California and died lately. ( See an acct. of him last month in Diary.) 
Wednesday November!, 1854. Cloudy, squally, but not cold. Signs of a change. Busy paying salaries and posting books for last month. Dr. 
N. returned from N. Y. last night with doleful news of the tightness of the money market, the distress of commercial circles. News from J[ohn] N[ott] who, instead of going to Europe as he gave out some 3 mos. since, has all the time been concealed (?) in Virginia. Why all this secrecy of movements and hiding (?) from his friends? Who knows? 
Benj. Howes '35 was a son of _____ Howes of this city and was a vicious good-for-nothing fellow as his after-course of crime proved. Being obliged to leave U. Coll. on account of his misconduct, he went to Hamilton where a similar course resulted in his leaving or being expelled from that Institution. After prowling about the country and committing various frauds and impositions, he fled to France and was drowned 'tis said on the coast. 
Norman C. Stoughton '35 left Coll. early and was not heard from by me till a year or two since when he was officiating as Epis. Clergyman at Catskill or vicinity. Not finding the Epis. Ch. to his liking, he has now gone over to the Romish Ch. 
Adam Crounse Hon. '3 5, was a Lutheran Minister of Guilderland. 
John Paterson Hon. '35 is a practical Minister of Albany and withal a very learned, worthy and unobtrusive man. His studies have been cheifly in Mathematics and languages in which he has high repute, by those who know his merits. 
Caleb B. Tichenor (Hon. '35) was in Prof. Averill's class but did not graduate. He was a physician of some note in New York and wrote a small medical work. 
William Belden Jr. was a brother of Henry B. of '35, and a teacher of one of the Public schools in N.Y. 
R. M. Brown '36 has followed teaching. 1st, Principal of the Schenectady Lyceum; 2nd, Tutor and assistant Prof. in U.Coll. and 3d, teacher of a private school in N. York city. A worthy man but not brilliant. He is a bro. of John H.B., grad. of '44. 
Rasselas Brown '36 , lawyer of Warren, Pa. I am told [he] has established a good reputation in W. and has received some public marks of confidence and esteem. 
Rev. Frederic Dean '36 has taught most of the time till his death, in Texas and La. Having poor health he was obliged to seek a milder climate than his native state. Dean was a worthy man. 
Wilson Ingalls '36 has been settled in Glenville over the Dutch Ch. ever since he left the Theol. Seminary. 
Mathew Merlgs '36 has taught mostly: 1st, in Detroit (?) then in Newark, Del. and, as he says, was Pres't. of Delaware College, 3d in Pottstown Penn. His health is poor, he writes, and so I hear from two of his pupils now in College. 
J. Curtis Partridge '36 studied law, but is engaged in lumber business now. He served, I am told, in the Mexican War but in what capacity I know not. 
Rev. Joshua Phelps '36 preached several years in the Pres. Ch, Tallahassee Fla. over which his bro. was pastor. Lately he came north and is now at the head of a new Literary Institution called Alexander College of Dubuque, Iowa. P. is a worthy man and ought to do well in his new station. 
Peter Snyder '36 has been pastor of one or two churches previous to his present settlement at Watertown; Cairo, I think, was one. He was an odd-looking man owing to his excessive nearness of sight which amounted almost to blindness. He had good capacities, however, and an inquiring mind, was a good scholar, industrious and persevering, overcoming the defects of his sight. 
E. B. Tallcott '36, a lawyer of good repute at Oswego. He has been State Senator. 
Wm. W. Theobalds '36 has been various things at times but nothing long. He has wandered over Europe and from one end of the 
U. S. to the other, and when last heard from was employed in the Custom House at Pt. Isabel, Texas. After his wanderings in Europe, he taught for a time in St. James College, Md., then at Shelby College, Ky., from whence he went to Texas. T's knowledge of books and men ought to give him a good position. 
Marcius Willson '36 has been a teacher and book-maker at Canandaigua. He has acquired some reputation by his school histories &c. 
Thursday November 2, 1854. [No entry.] 
Friday November 3, [1854]. Cooler, but a fine day for the season. Below I give two specimens of advertisements such as are frequently stuck upon the "Bulletin Board" near the Register's office door. These are notices of meetings on Friday P. M. of the two debating clubs of the Senior and Junior Classes: the first called the "Senate," the second the "House of Representatives." They differ from the Literary Societies in that the debates take a wider range and are cheifly political; they are governed also by the rules of parliamentary bodies. The Senate has been in existence these 12 or 15 years, the Ho. of Rep. perhaps half that time. 
(Senate) INTENSE EXCITEMENT!!!!!! Third Reading of Shanghai Steam Ship Bill. Colonization of American Slaves at Uncle Sam's expense. Galleries open to Sophomores and Freshmen. A limited no. of Juniors admitted below. Sergeant at arms hereby requested to be present with his whole force. The Senate meets this afternoon at 2 o'clock precisely. No ringing of the bell. Laurens P. Hickok Pres., Aug. Brodhead Vice Pres., H. D. Brown Clerk. 
[Friday] November 3, 1854. [Added in red ink, parallel to left margin; whole sheet pasted in Diary page, turned sideways on page: 
H. Rep. [in red ink] The Great Debate!! 
The exciting controversy about to cease! The eyes of the country and civilized world turned anxiously upon today's proceedings in the House! The Senate expected to adjourn in order to be present. Doors closed to the citizens at precisely 3 o'clock P.M. The Sergeant at Arms expected to do his duty. The "Free Trade Bill" for removing all impost and raising revenue by direct taxation, that has so long and violently agitated this country, will come to its final vote today in the House of Representatives. N. B. No members excused from attend.ance. Refreshment will be provided for them in the lobbies. 
[In red ink] 
[Saturday] November 3, 1854. {Pencilled on this notice in the top and bottom margins:] 
top: Dry up all Gass. Game at Foot Ball N. C. against S. C. after prayers Friday, Nov. 3, by order of Franklin the Moustache Man bottom: Shake over blowout at 2 1/2 P.M. Gass 
Rev. Geo. B. Miller (Hon. D.D. '36) I think was for a time Prin. of the (Lutheran) Hartwick Seminary. Sternberg '35 married a daughter of his and is now Principal of the School. 
Horace Sprague, Hon. '36 is a teacher at Kingsboro. 
Peter S. Danforth '37, lawyer, settled early at Middleburgh, and married Dr. Lintner's daughter. He is now State Senator, a very respectable lawyer and worthy man. 
Rev. Phineas Gurley D.D. settled, I think, first at Newark, 0., went thence to Indianapolis and lately to Washington, D. C. Belongs to the O[ld] S[outh] Presbyterian Church. 
H. Wager Halleck '37 graduated at West Point and became a Lieut. in the Top. Engineers, was stationed for a time at Governor's Island and some years since was sent to California where he studied law; has held some offices of trust there still holding his commission in the U.S. Army. He talks of resigning and continuing his profession of law. 
George L. LeRow, after leaving College, taught for a time in Bartlett's Collegiate school at Poughkeepsie, went thence to Staten Island and started a school of his own but died shortly after. 
William R. McDonald was a "hard case," a bad man in College but, since settling down in life, I am told, has reformed and become a respectable man. 
Wm. F. Morgan '3 7 was pretty well known among the young ladies in town, an elegant young man; good singer, decent, and gentlemanly. 
Thomas Mumford '37 after leaving College entered the store of Mc Camus and Co., Schenectady, as clerk, went from thence to a place not far from Burlington, Vt. and spent some years there in partnership with another, selling goods at retail; went thence to Belmont on the N. Y. and Erie R. R. and started business there for himself, married and last spring failed badly, as I am told. M. doubtless had little capacity for business. 
Martin Pech tel '3 7 turned out worse, I trust, than any other member of his class. He studied and commenced the practice of law in Hudson with as good prospects and reputation as any young man in the city, took to bad habits --drinking &c. --and last year was found dead in his bed, the effects of a drunken debauch. 
John K. Porter studied and practiced law in Waterford but soon went to Albany where his talents soon placed him in front ranks of his profession. He is doing a large and prosperous business and has a wide reputation as an advocate. 
Edward Tuckerman L.L.B. '3 7, an odd man with queer crotchets in his head. He has had many hobbys and made considerable progress in them, all by studiousness and industry. Botany was the first, which he commenced under my instruction in 
U. Coll. Having wealth, he travelled extensively in Europe and made large collections of dried plants. On his return he came to U. Coll as a sort of Res. Grad. thro' the influence of the now Bp. A. Potter, staid about a year and returned to Boston; finally settled down in Cam.bridge, and pursued philosophical studies for a time, entered Harvard Coll. and graduated, also studied law and received L.L.B. He took up the cryptogamous plants of the U.S. South Sea Exploring Expedition to study, but whether he finished the investigation I never heard. Having lost sight of him for some years, I now find his name among the faculty of Amherst College as lecturer on History. T. has good talents but I fear is [too] erratic to make a useful and eminent man. 
Rev. Charles Wadsworth settled first, I think, in Troy and obtained a good reputation as a fine writer and talented, facinating preacher, was called to Philadelphia where he now is settled and has acquired a good reputation. W. was something of a poet. 
Sam. Wilkeson studied law, married Judge Cody's daughter of Johnstown, and went into some manufacturing business in Buffalo. Lately he has commenced editing a daily newspaper there. We now have a younger bro. of his in College. 
John Abbot first taught for a time in this State, I think Oxford; went west and turned banker. John L. Burroughs became a Bapt. M[inister] and has for many 
years preached in Philadelphia with good success and reputation. Lately was called to a church in Richmond, Va. and has accepted; I think. 
Robt. R. Raymond '37 gave but little promise while in College. He was best known as a good song singer. He became a Baptist Minister afterwards and was for some years settled at Syracuse where he now edits a newspaper (Antislavery) having relinquished his duties as pastor. He is a bro. of Prof. R. of Rochester Univ. 
Saturday November 4, 1854. Cool. Winter approaches apace. Started at 12 o'clock for Saratoga Springs, arrived at 2 o'clock. Surprised to find Sarah Harvey so far recovered from her sickness as to sit up some hours today. As neuralgia often acts, it left her yesterday at 2 o'clock and has not returned. Mary well and anxious to return home. Took a walk to the Empire Spring and back, chatted an hour or two, took tea and left at 6.15 for home where arrived at 7 o'clock. Night 
cold, home dreary and lonesome. 
Sunday November 5, 1854. Bright cool day. To. church at Baptist Ch., heard Rev. Mr. Keach, an agent of the Am[erican] and For[eign] Bible Soc. P. M. Communion service. Home and read Pilgrim's Progress to the boys. Supper and to bed. 
Monday November 6, 1854. Last night.stinging cold, today clear, bright and invigorating, towards night wind from south and signs of rain. 
Benj. S. Brooks, lawyer, 1838 was settled for some years in N. Y. made some money, married, had some difficulty with his wife or her friends, fitted up a ship for California and 'tis said went there,á since when I have not heard from him. 
William Henry Burr has followed portrait-painting and reporting for the N. Y. newspapers as his occupations, cheifly since leaving College, and has been mostly in New York City. 
A. Judson Crane, 1838, lawyer and for a time, if not now, editor of a newspaper in Richmond, Va. 
William E. Cramer '38 was so deaf that he was obliged to recite privately while in College. Son of Hon. John Cramer of Waterford. On leaving College he came associate editor of the Albany Argus, where he remained some years, left and now edits a newspaper in Milwaukie, a young man of good abilities. 
Tuesday November 7, 1854. Election day and as usual rainy till near night when cleared off bright and sunshiny. Little talked of but 
Temperance and Anti-Nebraska candidates, the Know-Nothings &c. The following is the Temperance ticket. [not included] 
[Place typed article here] 
Mother Harvey came today and proceeded to Saratoga Springs with Henry. Mary will be home tonight or in the morning. Much noise in the streets by rowdy boys --bonfires, singing and shouts, the effects of mis[s]pent patriotism, rum and election. 
Wednesday November 8, 1854. It's all in a "muddle." Who is Governor? is the question. Ullmann? Clark? or Seymour? Nobody knows. Such a fog in politics never was known. Sometimes one is ahead, then the other, and it may be a week before the snarl is unravelled. Everybody is disappointed, some that their candidate ran so badly, others that theirs ran so well. The cheif interest, however, seems to [be] felt by the Temperance and Antitemperance men. 
Thursday November 9, 1854. Weather fair and passable for November. Some sickness in College, cheifly tendency to fevers of the intermittent or typhoid character, about which the Profs. feel some anxiety lest it should spread. 
Chauncey B. Crossfield '3 8 was somewhat known in College as a dabbler in anatomy and physiology, old bones; not remarkably cleanly or preposs[ess]ing. After leaving, 'tis said, he committed a forgery against an uncle, for which he was sent to Auburn State prison. After coming out he practiced medicine or endeavored to do so, with poor success, in his native town and later in Attica, N. Y. 
Isaac J. Duryee '38 was pastor at Fallsburgh, N. Y. for a while and perhaps at other places before he came to Schenectady as Mins. of the 2d Dutch Ch. An excellent, useful clergyman but not brilliant or showy. 
Harold L. Gregg '38, lawyer for some years in Chicago, was Secretary of State for Ill. and lately appointed Commission[er] for the Sandwich Islands, an important office. 
Saml. S. Leighton '38 Bapt. Mins. was settled for some years at Bow, N. H. ,went thence to No. Londonderry, N. H. and more lately has removed to another place. 
Ledyard Lincklaen '38 was in College Lincklaen Ledyard but has his name transposed by act of Legislature. Bro.-in-Law S. L. Magoun '38 studied and has thus far practiced law in Hudson, N. Y. with good success. 
T. Dwight Morris '38 now writes himself Dwight Morris. 
John Newman '38 taught some years in West Poultney Methodist School and was appointed Prof. [of] Latin in U. Coll. from thence. 
Friday November 10, 1854. Fine mild day with indications of Indian Summer and rain, with wind from south. "Who's governor?" is still the inquiry. The strife is now narrowed down to Seymour and Clark with a good chance for the latter, so say the evening papers. Who knows? Time only will show. Some alarm on account of sickness in College. 
A military fit has seized the Schenectady young men. We have a German Co[mpany], ,an Irish Co., an Artillery Co. and lastly on Tuesday is to appear the Washington Continentals said to be a Co. of "Know Nothings." 
Another Specimen of Senate and House [of] Rep. adver-or elect-tise-ments: ---'-T=h~e Senate meets this afternoon at 2 o'clock. No ringing of the --=-Be-==1,:,:.1.
The excitement on the Shaghai subject has in no manner abated, but is kindling into a more and more intense flame as Thanksgiving approaches. It is hoped, and sincerely, that it will be disposed of this afternoon, and that the high state of feeling which pervades theSenate may be abated, and that Hon. body be brought to that calm and deliberative state more befitting it. A Bill repealing the Nebraska and Kansas Bill has been received from the House. By order. H. D. Brown, Secretary of the [rest of paper torn off]. 
Notice The House of Representatives convenes this P.M. at the ringing of the bell. The Resolutions rec[c]ommending the purchase of Cuba are to be made the Special Order -G~.C. Bragdon, Clerk 
[Friday] November 10, 1854. The proposition is now made to open a couple of rooms in West College for the two sickest of the students, and to send the others who are well enough home; the two former are Kirby and Horner. 
Saturday November 11, 1854. Pouring rain greater part of the day. Much excitement in Coll. about the fever among the students. It proves to be a mild form of typhoid fever and is evidently epidemic. There have been now about 12 cases, most of whom are gone home or are getting well save the two yesterday mentioned yesterday. To Albany at 2 o'clock and back again at 4 o'clock. 
On cars saw D. H. Cruttenden ofN. Y. who thus far since leaving College has been a teacher, now returning [to] the West where he has been lecturing to "Teacher's Institutes." 
Dr. and Mrs. Nott went to Albany in same train. He preaches tomorrow in 4th Presbyterian Church. 
Nobody knows who is Governor yet. Clark and Seymour run so evenly that the official returns only can determine who is elected. All my classes now commence final review of studies preparatory to Examination, that term-inal Humbug. 
Great derangement in monetary affairs in the country. West banks and bankers breaking and business much deranged as usual. ----"----most dreadfully pressed and groaning like a Wall Street broker when stocks fall. What business has he at his age and with his property to get into such a strait? So all his friends say. Will he ever give up áspeculations and be out of his straits? 
Discharging hands from the great Locomotive factory in this city. Reason, want of cash orders. U. C. in no very comfortable condition also, for want of funds. Nearly $1000 is needed to pay Nov. 1st salaries. 
Sunday November 2, 1854. Theatening rain all day --came in the evening. A. M. whole family to Bapt. Ch., Rev. Mr. Day. P. M. d[itt]o to Dutch Ref. Ch., Rev. Julius A. Seelye. The latter altho' newly settled in S[chenectady] has gained friends and a good reputation for talents and good sense. A large number of students attend his church. 
Sickness in College on the whole favorable, no new cases. Kirby was today removed to a room in town, and Horner now only remains of the quite sick ones. 
Monday November13, 1854. Fair fall weather, with no frost in the ground, no cold winds. 
Sylvanus H. H. Parsons '38 went to Albany soon after grad.uating, studied law and has now for some years been a Police Magistrate of good repute and efficiency. 
James H. Partridge '38 has been a teacher-principal of one of the public schools of New York City for many years. 
Hudson S. Sneeden '38, I am told, has turned out badly -.dissipated and good-for-nothing. He went to California, I think, with Stevenson's Regiment and returned nothing bettered to "loaf'' about his native village. 
Tuesday November14, 1854. Weather mild, cloudy. The alarm on account of the fever in Coll. is on the increase and is likely to shorten the term by a week at least. Simmons S. Stevens '38 was a singing master. They seldom make good and successful businessmen. So in this case. S. started in 
[a] book and music store in Schenectady and after a few years business failed badly and left for Richmond, Va. where he taught a time and finally opened a female school of his own which he says is pretty successful. 
William Taylor '38, "old Bill Taylor," a College character, an oddity, in everybody's business. Knows everybody, speaks to everybody, writes to everybody and after all has no great and solid character of his own. "Bill" returned to N. Y. from College and has been cheifly employed in teaching there. Having dabbled somewhat in politics, he was chosen two years in succession Assemblyman from N.Y. 
Clarence Walworth '38, a wild young man in College, was one of Elder Knapp's converts in the great Revival some years since. He studied law and practiced it for a short time in Rochester. This he soon quit and joined the Catholic Church, went to Rome, studied theology, became a "Redemptorist" and is now holding "Missions," a kind of "protracted meeting," in the various Catholic Churches about the country. He has some smartness and gift for speaking, and is said to [be] very acceptable to his Ch. people. He lately held a mission in Schenectady and turned the heads of half of the Catholics. 
Wednesday November 15, 1854. Weather ditto. Yesterday a grand turn-out of the "Continentals," a new Military Company said to be "Know Nothings" dressed in the ancient uniform of the Continental Officers: cocked hats, blue coats with white facings, tight imitation buckskin breeches, yellow-topped boots &c. On the whole the display was quite creditable for those who play the soldier. 
Who is governor? is not answered to a certainty yet altho 'tis said Seymour has it by say 500 votes in the whole state. As the term draws to a close, the students get more alarmed at the fever; everybody has symptoms --headache, belly ache, and what not for an excuse to leave College. They are excused on easy terms and leave pretty rapidly. The two or three remaining sick are doing well. 
On Tuesday morning Sarah Harvey and Mother Harvey returned from Saratoga Springs, the former quite restored from her sickness. On Thursday Nov. 2 Aunt Brown of Epsom N. H., Mother's youngest sister, died, as was announced by a letter to Mo[ther]. 
Thursday November 16, 1854. Cloudy, dull, lowery, a little snow on the hills but not cold. At 9 o'clock P. M. thermometer 40 in the open air. Dr. Nott has thought it best to close the term on Monday next on acct of the alarm occasioned by the sickness. 
Edwin S. Wright '38, Cong[regational] Minis[ter], was for a time insane but on recovery settled in Ackworth, N. H. where he has resided for some years. 
John P. Burnet '38 was inclined to be dissipated for some time after leaving Coll., became insane, 'tis said, but l am told has recovered, and become a steady, respectable man. 
Meeker Hull '38, poor fellow, died of the typhus fever (in 1836), which prevailed in College and in town in a virulent form. John Mathews '38 entered the navy early and served with 
á reputation. In the Japan Expedition he with a boat's crew was lost in the Japanese seas by an unexpected storm. He was much respected as a man and officer and was a loss severely felt by his family, who reside in Schenectady. 
G. Wendell Prime was taken sick on his way home from Coll. at Hudson and soon died. Robt. Townsend '38 entered the Navy and served for a few years but on marrying he resigned and now lives in Albany. 
Silas Totten, D. D. was my tutor in Geom. in Jan. &c., 1832. He soon left to become Prof. in Washington (now Trinity) Coll., Hartford, Conn., was made President of the same and served for some years; resigned and is now Prof. in Wm. and Mary College, Va. We boys called him "old Rudder" from the immense proboscis which he carries. 
Alvin T. Twing (Hon. A.M.), an Epis. Clergyman in Lansingburg, was for a time teacher in Walkers' Epis. Inst'n, Troy. 
Friday Novemberl 7, 1854. Drizzly, cloudy, and unpleasant. Freshmen and Sophomores to be examined and dismissed tomorrow morning before 12 oclock!! Dispatch with a venge[a]nce!! 
"They say" for certain tonight that we have a Governor for the State of N. Y. ---Myron H. Clarke by a plurality of 200 or 300 votes over either of the three other candidates. So it be! Tomorrow may change it the other way. 
James M. Austin M. D. , 1st of Waterford, 2d of Lansingburgh, 3d of New York City where, I hear, he now resides. ..r-
A. B. Crocker '39, 1st was settled over the Dutch Ref. Ch. of Glenville, 2d over the Madison St. Pres. Ch. in N.Y., took sick soon after and died. 
John Gile '39 was drowned in a small boat on the coast of L. I. not far from Seekonk. 
Robt. S. Halstead '39, lawyer in Newburgh, his native place. Became intemperate, and lately shot himself. See Dr. Monell's letter. Joel T. Headly studied Divinity but has preached only 
occasionly,  became  a successful  author  and  has retired  to a place  
near Newburgh.  
John  T. Masters,  having  money  enough  to  live  without  a  
profession, takes care of his money and enjoys it.  

Saturday November 18, 1854. Moderate weather. This morning before breakfast heard my last recitation for the term called the "Examination." At twelve the Freshmen and Sophomore Classes were dismissed, having been dispatched in 3 hours! Sickness has marvellously abated! Those who have been for some days confined to their rooms are as lively as crickets and playing football on the "Green." All, with two exceptions, are able to travel. 
7 o'clock to 9 1/2 o'clock P.M. in ----"----s study holding a general talk about the financial matters of College: my conduct of them, my intercourse with him and the Trustees in town &c&c. The opening subject was his son j's salary which by reason of his absence of 16 months Particulars perhaps should not be committed to paper at present --maybe not all. It is sufficient to say that----11----and the town Trustees cannot agree at all in financial matters; he, they say, wishes to saddle too much upon the College to relieve his Fund of all burthens; they on the other hand, he says, desire to put too great a load upon the Fund. When will this bickering and cross fire cease! For 20 years we have known no peace; no sooner are we out of one difficulty than another presents itself. We have always been going to be rich and in easy circumstances but are apparently no nearer that situation than at the beginning. 
Sunday November 19, 1854. Beautiful day. To Pres. Ch., Dr. Backus. Head throbs, cross, dejected, and unhappy--cause last night's long unpleasant talk with ----"----. About made up my mind to resign my office of Treas. Saw H[ickok] at S and after an hour's conversation was persuaded to hold on and wait for a smoother sea. In his own department he experiences the same difficulties, the same unpleasant hindrances, the same drawbacks. á 
Monday November 20, 1854. At 9 o'clock had last recitation in Conics, both divisions together. At 10 to 12 o'clock had another plain talk with Mrs. ----11----, explained some things said on Sat. night, added many more, advised, counselled and urged certain measures. 
Term closes abruptly at 12 o'clock. All is hurry and confusion to get off. Many want money and cant go. The borrowers would be numerous, but nobody has the "ready" to lend. Banks are hard up and many people are sailing close to the wind and near upon the verge of bankruptcy. Professors are but partly paid and have reason to find fault. 
Tuesday November 21, 1854. A mild fall day. The usual College solitude about the "old barracks." Here and there a solitary student lounging about awaiting remittances from home, counting the days and importuning the Post Master. 
7 to 9 1/2 o'clock. Another long conversation with ----"---.,cheifly explanatory on his part of certain measures and propositions to the Res. Trustees; read his will to show how he had remembered the College in it. Now, since his son J. is not paid from College funds, intimates that he shall alter it for the detriment of the College and so on and so on. 
Wednesday November 22, 1854. Still mild, not more than two cold nights this fall. To Albany on business of the College: to Van Ben Thuysen's to examine a printing bill, to the Sec. of States' office to see Dr. Hough and Dr. E. B.O'Callaghan, to the State [House] to see Dr. T. R. Beck and A. B. Street, Librarian; to Joel Munsell's printing office and home. The State Library building is finally finished and occupied by the books. It is filled up with all the comfort and conveniences that $100,000 can buy and, when lavishly and imprudently expended, a much better building could have been built for half the money, altho' it would not have had the gimcracks and gingerbread work that this has. 
Dr. N. to N. Y. alone. 
Thursday November 23, 1854. Mild. Somewhat rainy yesterday morning. In the Treas. office writing letters &c. Henry W. Merrill '39, candidate for Judge of Saratoga Co. this fall without success. 
Lawrence Mersereau '3 9 for some years was a clergyman. Lately he has taught at several places; he is now principal of Little Falls Acad[emy]. 
Thomas C. Miller '39, I think, studied law at Auburn but probably never practiced it many [years?] since he removed to Detroit where he has manufactured and sold tobacco with good success. 
George Monilaws '3 9 was cheifly engaged in teaching till his death: 1st in Schenectady, 2d in Philadelphia, 3d somewhere on [the] Hudson River where he shortly after died. 
Hugh W. McClellan '39 studied law, went to California, soon returned and took charge of a female boarding school in Nassau where he is still residing. Mc. grows as big as a tun. 
James Alphonsus McMaster '39, son of Rev. Dr. Gilbert McMaster, a Scotch Pres. Mins. of Duanesburgh, while in College passed by the name of B. B. J. McM. After leaving he joined the Epis. Ch., passed to Puseyism and from thence to Romanism in which he was baptised by his present name. He went to Rome, returned and became editor of the Freeman's Journal. 
John M. Pettit '39, a thriving lawyer of Ind., where he was elected a Member of Congress from the 11th Dist. this fall. Robt. Proudfit Jr. '39, son of Prof. R. P., studied and practiced law in Newburgh till lately when he removed to New York. 
Friday November 24, 1854. Mild rainy and shiny by turns. Dr. N. back from N. Y. last night. 
Morgan J. Smead '39 some years since went to Germany where he studied at the Univ. of Berlin to prepare himself for a Prof. of Ancient Language[s], returned and obtained his present Prof[essorshi]p. in Wm. and M[ary] College, Va. 
John Van Santvoord '39 studied and commenced the practice of law in Cohoes, returned and opened a law office in Schenectady, went to Washington and by an influential friend obtained a clerkship where he still remains. 
Hooper C. Vanvorst '39 studied and commenced practice of law in Albany: lately opened an office in New York. He is bro.-in-law to Judge Hil-ton, who married his sister. 
Woodbridge L. James '39 left Un. Coll. early and grad. at Middlebury College. Wm. H. Marsh came from Amherst College and, I think, returned to and grad[uated] at the same. 
Edwin A. Maynard '39 for a long time had the consumption and went to Texas for the benefit of his health, which for a time was much benefited. 
Saturday November 25, 1854. Rainy in the morning --a beautiful rainbow in the west. Sunshine and clear weather. Cloudy and at night a fine rain. Thunder and lightning in the morning. 
Money most unaccountably scarce or rather hard to be got. College Profs. but partially paid and no hopes for them at the present. 
A rumor that Sophomore LaMont is dead of a fever at Charlotteville, Schoharie Co., hope it may prove false. 
Wm. C. Child '40 was for some years settled at Charlestown, 
Mass., now at Framingham Baptist. 
Saml. D. Carr has followed teaching for a profession since leaving College. Benj. Cannon Jr. '40 is now clerk of Delaware Co. at Delhi. Caleb B. Crumb '40 for some years taught in Syracuse where he 
studied law, left and settled in Rochester. 
Michael P. Cavert '40 has followed teaching for his profession: 1, in Knox, Albany County. 2, in Rhinebeck (I think). 3, in Amsterdam. 4 and lastly, in Stamford, Conn. He married old "Boss Teller's" da[ughter] of this city. 
James Fanning '40 has made teaching a profession and with good success and profit. 
John B. Gill, M. D., physician. J.M. Pierce of present Senior Class says he is the best phys. in Kentucky, very successful and takes a high stand. 
Sunday November 26, 1854. Fine moderate weather. To Bapt. Ch. in forenoon, Rev. Mr. Day. In P.M. to hear Dr Backus of Presbyterian Ch. 
Monday November 27, 1854. Dr. N. and wife started for New York. James E. Houston '40 is said to have been killed by his slaves on account of his cruelty to them. 
Giles Manwaring Jr. '40 (studied theol.?) but taught till his death 1st, at Schenectady, then near Phila. and finally at Somers, where he died. 
James Magoffin '40 has taught iri so many places that it is difficult to follow him, last in Lansingburgh. Ansel E. Stevens taught for a time in Dayton, 0. and afterwards, I am told, went into business, building R.R. coaches with E. E. Barney. 
A. B. Vanzandt taught for a while [in] the Schen. Lyceum, studied theol., was settled Pres. Mins. at Newburgh, finally at Petersburgh, Va. 
Tuesday November 28, 1854. Weather fine for the season. 
A rumor says that LaMont, Sophomore, died some days since at Charlottesville of typhus fever taken some 10 days after leaving Schen. Trust it is not so. Miss Lansing da[ughter] of the No.[?] Hall, died today. She had a mild fever. Her brain was affected, she was desponding and refused medicine. At this house the first case occurred (Wilson) this term. 
Robt. H. Van Bergen '40 while in College did but little but drink 
and left College on the strait road to ruin; after a time he reformed 
and is said to be respectable man. 
Madison Young '40 was as unpromising a subject to look at as 
one sees in College in 20 years. Without great capacities, I presume 
he makes a respectable lawyer. 
Robt. Fuller '40 was very dissipated till of late but is now said 
to have reformed. 
James Irish (Rev.), Seventh Day Bapt. Mins. and Prin. of the 
acad. at DeRuyter till very lately when he resigned the latter office 
and now confines himself to the ministry. 
James H. Lyon, a saddler and harness-maker in Schen. 
á Wednesday November 29, 1854. Weather remarkably fine for the 
season and the general subject of remark. Sorting out dried plants to 
send to Europe for Exchange. 
George H. Batchelder M. D. ,a very unpromising young man in 
College, am told he has reformed. 
Hugh B. Bull, "Huge Big Bull," as he was nicknamed in Coll., is a 
very respectable lawyer, has served one term [as] ,Assemblyman 
~m~oo~~ á 
What Timothy Conkling is doing in New York, where I hear he 
has been some time, I am not able to say. 
Aug. W. Cowles, Pres. clergyman, was a painter in College and 
had some talent for sketching. 
David H. Cruttenden '41 has taught since leaving College, 1st in 
Schen. Lyceum, and then in New York at Clark & Fannings Sch[ool] 
and as Prin. of the Mechanics Soc. Sch[ool] --has now left the 
business. 
Thursday November 30, 1854. Thanksgiving Day. Wind from the 
N.W. cold and increasing to a gale, carrying leaves, sand and dust before it like smoke. 
A.M. to Pres. Ch., heard a foreigner --Scotch probably. P.M. took the boys to a military turn-out on this occasion. In grading the continuation of Lafayette Street betw. Liberty and Union Sts., an old hospital burying ground was disturbed and 5 8 bodies were disinter[r]ed --the remains of so many soldiers who died in the Revolutionary War at the U.S. barracks in this city, of small pox and scurv[e]y. The military turned out to bury these remains with military honors in one huge coffin in one grave in the Methodist burying ground on the Albany hill. 
Friday December 1, 1854. Cold and wintry. At work all day putting up plants for European Exchange. 
Clark B. Cochrane '41 left College some time before his class graduated. He properly belonged to an earlier class, went to Amsterdam, married, studied law and commenced and continued the practice there for some years with success. A few yrs. since he came to Schen. and formed a partnership with P. Potter. 
James Elmendorf '41 studied law and commenced the practice in Hudson, but died shortly thereafter of consumption. Gustavus F. Goss '41 taught in Ind. but volunteered during the Mexican War and was killed, I am told, at the battle of Monterey. 
Saturday December 2, 1854. Cold, windy and unpleasant. Self and wife to Albany. Walter Gunn '41 went out as a missionary to Asia but died soon after. Hamilton Harris '41, a lawyer of good repute in Albany, has been assemblyman and is now Dist. Attorney. 
William Kelley M. D. '41 after graduation taught [in] the Schenectady Lyceum, was Tutor in College. Went to N. Y. City and studied medicine and was for some years Res. Physician on Blackwell's Island, which situation he resigned last year, and with Dr. Churchhill of Utica left for Europe in the ship Constitution which sailed from N. Y. just before Christmas 1853. In the great storm of the 23d Dec., the ship was capsized and it is presumed all on board perished. 
Sunday December 3, 1854. Snowed all day with strong wind. In house all day. 
Monday December 4, 1854. About 10 in. snow with a strong north wind which drifts it fearfully. Mails and railroads much deranged. 
Tuesday December 5, 1854. Cold, blustering, February weather. Posting books in Treas. Office etc. Selecting out dried plants from my collection to .send to Europe to be exchanged by Prof. Joy. 
Henry E. Kinney '41 studied physic and is said to have gone to some South American city to practice his profession. Married a native and became a resident. Had some taste for Botany and other branches of Nat. History. 
Cornelius S. Mead '41 became Mins., Dutch Ref. Ch., and was settled some years in West Rotterdam before he went to Herkimer. 
RobertC. Morgan, "Bob Morgan" '41, became an engineer, went to Mexico with the Am[erican] Army under Scott as Lieut., returned and went out with an exploring or surveying party to the isthmus of Tehuantepec to reconnoitre for a railroad, returned and is now clerk in the Treasury Dept. Washington, D. C. 
Henry J. Moore '41, altho' he studied theol., has for a long time been engaged in teaching [in] Bakersfield, Vt. 
J. Oakley Nodine '41 was a teacher for a time, then in some mercantile business in N. Y. 
Wednesday December 6, 1854. Severe winter weather. Nothing stirring about College but the snow. 
Henry C. Potter M. D. '41 commenced the practice of medicine, abandoned it to become editor of a daily paper, and has now again returned to his profession. 
Charles Richards '41 after several removals settled a few years since in Rensselaerville as Pastor and Principal of the Academy, where he still abides. 
Thursday December 7, 1854. Weather ditto. 
Cyrus Smith went to Murfreesboro, Tenn. to take part in a new University that my old teacher Farnsworth ( once of New Hampton, N. H.) was trying to build up. He remained for a time, was licensed to preach but died ere long of consumption, a worthy man. 
George VanSantvoord '41 after studying law settled in Kinderhook for some years, lately removed to New York City and still later, as I am told, to Troy. He has written one or two books of some merit. 
Stephen Y. Vedder '41 never studied a profession, but soon after leaving College engaged in selling "dry goods" in this city; about 4 yrs since, he left and is now in the same business at Hyde Park. 
Friday December 8, 1854. Weather ditto only more so. Thermometer down to zero and intensely cold tonight. David S. Coddington '41 was a lazy, deformed boy, but of some talent withal, and a very respectable lawyer, I am told. 
B. B. Griswold has taught in various places--longest, however, at or near Baltimore where he now lives. 
Saturday December 9, 1854. Weather milder, wind from south. The late storm by all accounts has been very severe in many places, doing damage to shipping and blocking up R. Roads. 
Engaged evenings in making extracts from the printing office files of the "Schen. Cabinet" and "Schen. Reflector" relating to graduates of Union College for future use in making a biographical catalogue of the College. 
Sunday December 10, 1854. To Bapt. Ch. to hear Rev. Horace Day. 
Monday December 11, 1854. The late snow storm has made indifferent sleighing, being left in heaps. The vacation goes along without incident or excitement. 
John Proudfit (Hon. D.D.) 1841 while a student in College wrote his name John A. Proudfit, since when he has dropped the middle name. 
Alfred B. Street, well known as a poet, is now Librarian of the State Library at Albany. 
John Vandervolgen (Hon. A.B.) '41, after preaching for a few years in Princetown and Duanes burgh, left for the west some years since --lately he went to California where he now acts as Judge. 
John M. Bradford '42 was for a time an assistant editor, I think, for the N. Y. Evangelist; where he now is, I know not. 
Tuesday December 12, 1854. A perfect stagnation of dullness all about College. 
Alex B. Bullions '42 preached for a time in Waterford but something more than a year since he went to Europe as tutor and travelling companion to one or two Albany boys, and now resides with them at Geneva. 
Smith Barker Burnham '42 never practiced medicine; he practiced dentistry in this city for a while and now pursues the same profession in Milwaukee. 
F. R. E. Cornell has served one term as State Senator. 
Samuel Jackson '42 practiced law for a short time at Gilboa, I think; left that for the tanning business which he now carries on in Ulster Co. 
Wm. A. Miller '42 has preached some, but has cheifly been employed as a teacher in the Albany Acad., of which he is now the Principal. 
Wednesday December 13, 1854. Weather mild. Wrote a few letters and wrought upon my plants for exchanges with Europe. 
Silas McKinney '42 is a missionary to So. Africa. 
Charles C. Parry '42, M.D., is something of a naturalist having been employed as botanist on one of the U. S. exploring expeditions towards the Rocky Mts. He is settled in Dubuque, Iowa, and is Prof., I think, in the new College there. 
James H. Rundle '42 has [a] flourishing boys' school at 
Bloomfield, N.J. 
George Spencer '42 was for a long time teacher and Prin. of the Utica Acad. Wrote some elementary sch. books and lately, I believe, has invented some new and useful machine. 
Wm. B. Smith '42, I think, told me he was a real estate agent in 
N. Y. Geo. W. Starr '42, lawyer, has removed lately from Buffalo to 
Erie, Penn. Otis H. Waldo '42 is dead. 
Thursday December 14, 1854. A hard winter in every sense: weather cold, money scarce, work not to be had and provisions dear beyond precedent. What the poor and laboring men will do is the oft repeated query of all. 
Alonzo C. Jackson '42 entered the Navy before finishing his College course and passed the usual grades to a lieutenantcy. His last service was in connection with a commission of officers to determine a site for a navy yard and dock at San Francisco. On his return he was engaged for a time at Washington from whence he went to the Clifton Water Cure establishment in Western N. ,Y., sick with a disease of the brain from which he never recovered but died in 1852. It is said the primary cause of his disease was a fall while on duty at sea. He married Miss Dora Mumford a da[ughter] of S. Jones Mumford, and left her widow with two children. 
Friday December15, 1854. 
Charles E. and Evert B. Smedes were brothers of Rev. Eldert Smedes, Rec. of Epis. Ch. in this city. I think they grad[uated] at New York University, went south and engaged in mercantile business, where they now reside. 
Frederic C. Adams '43 studied medicine at Albany and graduated at the Albany Med. College. He married a da[ughter] of 
M.T. Reynolds and now resides there. 
Wm. R. Biddlecome '43 and Orsamus Cole, both lawyers, settled in Potosi, Wis. The former left about 2 yrs. since and made St Louis Mo. his residence --the latter remains. 
Danl. B. Hagar '43 taught for a time at Canajoharie, afterwards and still at Jamaica Plains, Mass. He married a Miss McKim. 
Saturday December 16, 1854. Closed up my task of selecting dried plants for Europe. The number amounts to about 600 species. 
S.S. Harman '43 about two yrs. since went to California with E. 
B. Walsworth as a missionary. 
Rev. Geo. J. Harrison '43 was for a time assistant minister to Rev. Saml. Nott D. D. of Franklin, Ct. [After] five years he left and is now residing at New Haven, Conn. in what business I know not. 
Rev. Joseph S. Heacock '43 was for a time engaged in some travelling agency connected with some benevolent society and is probably so engaged still. 
Sunday Decemberl 7, 1854. Laid up with piles, not out all during the day. 
Monday December 18, 1854. Cold --bitter cold. Franklin B. Hough M. D. '43 studied med. and graduated at a 
áNorthern Ohio Med. Coll. (Cleveland?), settled in Somerville, St Lawrence [County], but never practiced his profession to any great extent; was engaged cheifly [in] scientific pursuits collecting minerals, plants, facts relating to Indian antiquities, and historical inquiries. He first published a history of St. Lawrence County, which was shortly followed by one of Jefferson and Lewis counties. Last year he removed to Albany where he is engaged [in] indexing and arranging the papers of the Secretary of States office and in editing a work called the "Civil List" of the State of N. Y. and a grand resume of the meteorological observations made by the Academies of the state of N.Y. Hough is a man of great industry and very respectable abilities, but his uncouth and rough ext~rior are much against his success with the world. 
Tuesday December 19, 1854. Weather ditto only more so. Thermometer falling constantly. To Albany at 9 o'clock: 1st went to county clerk's office, and copied a map of Gibbonsville, now West Troy, for the purpose of tracing out the 40 Lots on which the College has a ground of $500. 2. Went to Hon. John C. Spencer's to get two bonds and mortgages of $40,000 each belonging to the Nott Trust fund and held by him pending the decision of a certain lawsuit. Found him still sorely afflicted with a neuralgic affection which has worn him to a skeleton and will probably end hi~ days. It is sad to [see a] strong [man] of his commanding powers rendered helpless and useless by this incurable disease. He speaks with interest of the College and Dr. Nott whom he so ably defended last year but discouragingly of himself. He attributes the root of his ailment to over-labor in the trial of Dr. Nott before the Senate Commission. Dinner at Narcisse Remond's --pork and beans and dry toast and tea --a cigar; to Van Benthuysen's printery for a receipt; to Gray & Sprague's for Vol. V. of Munsell's annals of Albany; to Rail R. and home. 
Wednesday December 20, 1854. Thermometer this morning 15 á Fahr.!! What weather for December! Did but little but trot around and shiver with cold. In midst of all, an invitation to an old folks tea.party at Wid[ow] (Jeremiah) Fuller's, Church St., in honor of Dominie Seelye and his bride and (ah me!) must go weather or no weather. Self and wife dressed and off at 5 1/2 o'clock to be in time. Guests. -.Mrs. (Widow of Dr. Arch Craig) Craig, Mrs. (Stephen) Yates, Mrs. (Nicholas) Van Vranken, Mrs. (James) Fuller, Mr. and Mrs. James Craig, Mrs. (Wid. Wm B.) Walton, Mrs. and Dr. Thomas Dunlap, Daughter and Son, Miss Briton, Rev. Horace Day, Mrs. and Rev. Mr. Seelye, Mr, and Mrs. (Prof. John) Foster, Wife and self. Fare: Tea and Coffee (handed around), bread and butter, waffles, cakes of various kinds, cheese and tongue, ice cream and sweetmeats, grapes and apples. Home at 9 o'clock nearly frozen. 
Thursday December 21, 1854. Thermometer uncomfortably low still. Hard times and cold weather principal topic of conversation. Water in cistern gave out --forced to melt snow for water. General complaint of dry wells and leaky cisterns. 
Rev. Ham. W. Pierson '43 was ordained and made prepara.tions to go to Africa on a mission, but ill health prevented. Last year he wrote a book on missions and accepted an agency for some Benevolent Society to act in Kentucky(?) 
Henry Pomeroy '43 commenced as tutor in Union College, left at end of one term or so and to reestablish his health shipped on board a merchant ship for Canton with a drunken Turk for a Capt. Left the ship at Canton and shipped on board an Am[erican] Man of War and at the end of three years came home, thoroughly tired of the sea. Became an engineer and is now res[ident?] Eng[ineer] on a Western R 
R. residing at Fort Wayne Ind. 
Friday December 22, 1854. Thermometer -8 á and all day not above zero, trying to snow but too cold to am[oun]t to much. Tonight wife sick with cold, boys ditto and self with piles. 
Rev. Augustus Horton Seely went out to India as a missionary, after some yrs. service lost his wife and last yr. returned with four motherless children. 
Justin A. Smith '43, Baptist clergyman, settled 1st at Ben.nington, Vt., then at Rochester and now (in 1853) at Chicago, editor of a religious newspaper. 
Philip Spencer '43 son of Hon. John C. Spencer, came from Geneva Coll. here a vicious bad boy, soon left a hopeless case and 
entered the ánavy as midshipman, his father being Sec. of Navy. His 
last cruise was on the unfortunate Somers where, with two others, 
he was hung for attempted muttiny. (See the newspapers of the time 
about Jan. 1853) [Pencilled note by ? J.P. "should have written 
1842."] 
Saturday December 23, 1854. Severe and trying weather. 
Eben N. Hosford (Hon. AM.) was not a grad[uate] of any College. First knew of him as assistant in the Geological Survey of State of N.Y. He was afterwards teacher in the Albany Female Acad., went to Germany and studied Chemistry at Geissen under Liebig and returned to take charge of the new Chemical school at Harvard College. 
Saml. G. Drake (Hon. A. M.) has for a long time been a bookseller and publisher in Boston. He is author of the best "Book of Indians" in our language and other lesser works, and editor of the 
N. E. Gen. and Hist. Magazine. James M. Coley (Hon. A. M.) was a Baptist minister in Albany. Isaac T. Hinton (Hon. A. M.) was a Baptist minister. Victor G. Benne (Hon. A. B.) was a Hanoverian by birth, son of 
an officer; was educated for the Army at the military school but on account of some misunderstanding with his father left with a colony for Brazil. The expedition failed of its object and B. was left penni.less and friendless in a strange country where he suffered much before he could get away; came to this country and in some way become a protegee of Bp. Potter, then Prof in College, doing some copying and literary labor for him. He afterwards taught at several places on the Hudson and married an American wife. Farther, I know not 
John H. Reynolds (Hon. A. B.) '43, a lawyer of Kinderhook, lately moved to Albany, became P[ost] Master and was removed from office. He is a very promising lawyer. 
A. L. and H.B. Allen (Hon. A.B.) '43 were a short time in U. Coll. some years before but left before graduation. Studied law and went to N. Y. where I think they have since established an agricultural store and a manufactory of implements, together with an agricultural magazine. 
Sunday December 24, 1854. Weather much moderated. Thermo.meter at 9 P.M., 32 á. Sick with piles and not out during the day. 
Prof L. P. Hickok preaches today at Albany, 4th Pres. Church. 
Monday December 25, 1854. ,Mr. L.H. Willard, Registrar of College, goes to N.Y. City to examine accounts of Crane and Ely at Hunter Point. Nothing new in Schen., dull and dreary for the lover of excitement. 
Andrew Abraham '44 went to S. Africa early as missionary and still remains there. Some years since had letter from him, ac.companied by some dried plants. 
Addison B. Atkins '44 went from College to Baltimore, Md. where he taught [in] a young ladies seminary for a few years. He then became Epis. clergyman and settled in Rochester(?) from whence he has lately gone to Germantown, Penn. 
John H. Brown '44 has followed teaching since leaving College either in Schen. or at New York where he has resided for the last six (?) years. 
D. B. Emerson '44 became a very dissipated, miserable sot and died not long since at his native place. 
Tuesday December 26, 1854. Weather mild. Thaw set in and snow going. Nothing more. 
Rev. G. C. Foote '44 married a Miss Sharrate of Schen. and preached (Epis.) at Sag Harbor for a time but lately settled in Pittsburg, Penn. 
Saml. Glenn commenced the study of divinity which he exchanged for medicine and was not long since practicing in N. J. 
Charles A. Joy '44 went to Boston early and commenced the study of Chemistry and Mineralogy with Dr. Jackson with whom he explored the copper regions of Lake Superior. Some 5 yrs. ago he went to Germany where he spent 4 yrs. in the same studies and has now returned by order of Trustees of U. C. to act as their agent in buying apparatus (?). 
Wednesday December 27, 1854. Mild, snow thawing. Dr. and Mrs. 
N. returned from N. Y. tonight, having been absent nearly the whole vacation. 
Wm. C. Kenyon '44 has been principal of the Alfred Centre Academy for many years, and is said to be an energetic and useful man. 
M. W. L'Amoreux '44 went to Europe for a year so, returned and has taught French &c. in College for a few terms, has no ostensible business, a man amiable and of some taste but destitute of much energy. 
John W. McKim '44 settled in Washington D. C. but has now moved to Defiance, Ohio. 
Thursday December 28, 1854. Weather ditto, sleighing gone. Wm. J. Niles '44 was a reporter for the N. Y. newspapers (while in College) at Washington, D. C. during session of Congress and for a 
¥ time afterwards. Know not what his occupation now is. Never studied a profession. 
A.H. Rice '44 is a paper merchant in Boston, a very respectable man and much esteemed. 
Howard Townsend '44 after studying Physic in Albany finished his course in Paris, settled in Albany and is Prof. in the Medical College there. 
Friday December 29, 1854. Cold and windy, snow mostly gone, sleighing spoiled, much to the disappointment of all. Eight o'clock on Rail for West Troy to look up certain 40 Lots (and their owners) on which College holds a ground of 12.50$ each. Arrived at 9.30 and with map in hand commenced work. Trotted all day long. Determined the lots and owners, and at six left for home. W. Troy is a place of small trade in itself, too nigh Troy and Albany. It is a storing place for lumber from the canals and has some mills, foundries, U. States Arsenal &c. but money made here probably goes to other places where more style and fashion may be had. Got dinner (?) of tough beef and cold potatoes at that great pretentious white pine palace called the "Exchange." 
Saturday December 30, 1854. Weather ditto., "raw" and disa.
greeable. To office and wrote letters -L. H.W.--Register--returned 
last night from N. Y. where he has been tb exam[ine] Crane and Ely's 
Hunter property books. Found them in a ______ condition. P.M. 
Balancing cash, and preparing for the close of the month. 
Sister Magoun and Edw. up from Hudson at 12 o'clock, he in the 
evening at 7 o'clock. 
P. A. Roy '44 came to College a green Canadian Frenchman, became a protestant and graduated with reputation and much liked, went to La., studied law and there has practiced it for some years. 
Joseph Yates '44 never studied a profession, now sells coal &c. in Schenectady. Saml. H. Furman '44. Well! I never saw so _________ in all my life. 
Sunday December 31, 1854. Bro-in-law S.L. Magoun came last night. To church (Presbyterian) in morning with wife. Communion season at which Dr Nott officiated. 
