
1855 
Monday January 1, 1855. Pleasant, moderate day, but a remnant of 
snow left. No sleighing. New Year's calls hardly so numerous as 
usual. Called on Mrs. Nott, Mrs. Jackson, Van Ingen Hook and Dr. 
Proudflt all told. Spent most of the [day] in office. 
John N. Banker '45 studied law a little bit, never practiced it, 
spent a year or two while his father was P[ost] Master, as clerk in the 
P. Office, something over a year since m[arried] Miss O'Neil of Duanesburgh and sailed for Oregon Ter[ritory] .. 
Lansing Bailey '45, son of Deacon Bailey formerly of this city, now of Utica, studied divinity, settled in Vermont and other places áfor short periods, spent one year with his fa[ther]-in-law, Eli Jones of Schen., selling groceries, now preaching in Cheviot, 0. 
Henry J. Bowers '45 studied law, gave up the practice and became merchant, lately married a da[ughter] of Wm. C. Crain Esq. of Winfield, Herkimer Co. 
John C. Briggs '45, engineer on various public works, present residence St. Johnsbury, Vt. 
Oliver Bronson '45, I think, studied and practiced law for a time in Utica, then studied theology at Auburn Theol. Sem., now preaches at Kinderhook. 
Stephen Bush '45 went abroad to Siam (?) as missionary and returned lately with poor health. Preaches at Cohoes --doubtless [doubtful?] whether he returns to Asia. 
Tuesday January 2, 1855. Sister Magoun and Edw. and myself left at 8 o'clock A M. for Troy, where arrived at 9.30. Left her there and crossed the river on the ice to make farther arrangements for collecting rents belonging to College on 40 Lots of the Village--$12.50 each. Arrangement thus: Left receipts for each lot at the Bank of West Troy and notified each tenant to pay there, the money to be drawn from the Bank on Feb.I. 
Two P. M. on a "Bus" for Albany, road smooth, weather fine. River covered with skaters. One "ice boat" furnished with sails and a rudder driven with great velocity by the wind. Three o'clock to Richard Sampson's sister (colored woman), 20 Clinton St., to look over his papers for receipts of payts. made on the Kettle Mort[gage]. To Bernents City Steam Mills for "grits." To Gray & Sprague& Co's book store for Dr. Hough's "Civil List" --not yet published. No news but the message (Governor's) and the assembling of the Legislature. Six.thirty met Mrs. Nott at R. Road and home. 
Henry Cozzens '45, son of the hotelkeeper, died soon after leaving College, of consumption. Silas W. Deuel '45 studied theology at the Union Theol. Sem., 
N.Y. City, left Presbyterian Ch. for the Swedenborgian and died soon of consumption, an excellent ,amiable young man. 
David Donnan Jr. '45 taught in the Schen. Lyceum about a year, studied theology and is now settled in Newark N.J. 
Wednesday January 3, 1855. Fine mild weather, wind south. (Last Monday morning about one o'clock engine house on Central R.R. in this city partly burned, injuring six engines.) All day long trying to pay off a small mort[gage] on the Sampson lot owned by College. The old lady holding the mort[gage] wanting compound interest; refused to pay it and finally she took simple int[erest]. 
To a small tea-gossip at Mrs. H. C. Van Ingen's, four doors below me. Present Mrs. Jackson, Mrs. Averill, and Wife and self. 
Thursday January 4, 1855. Weather mild and spring-like. In office most of the day, employed as usual. John Fitch '45, lawyer of Troy, the most _______ man ever seen in Union College or elsewhere. 
J. Dunbar Houghton '45, thin, sickly-looking man, a teacher for some years in Mr. Kingsley's school, West Point, N.Y., now Principal of Academy, Jefferson county. Lewis H. Lee '45 preached at Rahway, N. J. for some years, lately came to Waterford. 
Rev. Abrm. N. Littlejohn '45 passed from the Presbyterian to the Epis. Ch. while in College, preached for a time in Amsterdam, then in Conn., and lastly in New Haven, Conn. 
Edd. McCamus '45 studied med. and grad. an M.D. at Albany Med. College but did not practice the profession. In partnership with his father in the dry good[s] business. 
Friday January 5, 1855. Weather ditto. Term opens. Students flocking back, all with some want or other to be gratified. Some new students. Evening tea party at Prof. Jackson's. Present: Major Thornton of U.S. Army, Mrs. d[itt]o, Dr. Nott and Mrs. D[itt]o, Prof. Foster and wife, [Prof.] Newman d[itt]o. Prof. Lewis. [Ditto] Gillespie, Mrs. Proudfit, Miss Hook, self and wife. Home at 9 1/2. 
Fare: oysters, coffee, blanc mange jelly, sandwiches, apples, raisins, cakes &c. So to Bed . 
Saturday January 6, 1855. Weather d[itt]o. More old and new students. 
R.H. McClellan '45 studied law, went to California, came back and becameáPrinc. of a female school in his native Nassau. Large, fat, red-whiskered, and good-natured. ' James S. Mackie '45 was M. D.; under Webster, Sec. State, was keeper of the archives at Washington. 
Joseph R. Pitcher '45. Poor Joe! ruined himself by dissipation 
and, as a fool dies, by leaping from a window in a fit of delirium 
tremens. 
Ed. Rosa '45 has practiced law in Schenectady. 
Ira Sayles '45 is a teacher 1st at Alfred Centre for some years, 
now at Rushford. 
Daniel Washbon '45 taught at Little Falls for a time, then 
became Epis. mins. in Penn. 
Charles B. Waring '45 taught for some years in Mr. Bartlett's School, Poughkeepsie, is now manufacturer of philos[ophical] instruments at same place. 
0. Dennett died in College. I went on with the corpse to his 
father's [place?] in Rochester, N. H. Henry Rosa '45, coal merchant these many years in Schen. Henry P. Tappan D. D. was Prof. in N. Y. Univ., had a female 
school in same city and is now Pres. Mich[igan] University. 
Sunday January 7, 1855. To Bapt. Ch. A.M. and P.M. Mr. Day preached. 
Monday January 8, 1855. Weather springlike, and [might?] produce a "Jan[uary] thaw" if there were any snow. 
Arranging classes, giving out the first lessons, taking in term bills, answering questions innumerable, assigning rooms, reconciling conflicting claims, pestered by endless complaints of students and professors. Our cheif troubles arise now from want of proper recitation rooms and tutors. Being short-handed, our classes are too large: and our small ill-ventilated rooms are exceedingly uncomfortable. Until the lodging system is entirely given up, we shall also be pressed for students rooms. So long as it is adhered to, we shall need an expenditure of say $25,000 for dormitories. The money cannot be raised, and it is best it never should be for such a purpose. 
Our Colleges must be poor so long as they are nothing but boarding schools. We want an assembling room for morn[ing] and even[ing] prayers and other purposes; the hole we now have is a disgrace to the College and all concerned --also a Library and Minerals room, the books and specimens being now boxed up awaiting the mice and milldew. $10,000 will furnish a building for all these three purposes, and yet not a motion is made towards so desirable, necessary, indispensable an object. Cause: want of concert in action and opinion between ----"----and Resident Trustees. 
Tuesday January 9,, 1855. Weather as before. No winter; that came in Dec[ember]. Spring now. 
Today is yesterday over again, as is all college life. Same daily routine: same ding-dong bell, same rushing hither and thither to recitation rooms; lagging lazy fellows with everlasting excuse of sick or didn't hear the bell, an interminable string of lying excuses. 
Rev. Wm. Arthur, Hon. A. M.,'45, Bapt. Mins.,a native of Ireland, educated at Belfast, taught and preached in Vt. Pastor in this city a few years, went to Lansingburgh, thence to Hoosic, thence to West Troy. Here and at Lansingburgh published a monthly mag. called the Antiquarian, of no great force. 
J. J. Farnham '45, a short time in College some years before, left and became a lawyer in N. Y. City, went to Cal. early and there died. Robt. R. Raymond '45 in Coll. some years before, but did not graduate (see '37). 
Wm. J. Alger '46 Epis. Minis., lately ordained Priest at Albany and missionary in Otsego Co. 
C.W. Anable '46, studied and practiced law for a short time in Phila., went to Hamilton, Mad[ison] Univ. and studied divinity. Grad. last Aug., had a call to the Bapt. Ch. Williamsburg, Va., another from Germantown, Pa. which latter he has accepted. 
Wednesday January 10, 1855. Wind around north and somewhat colder. No snow. Recitations for the term, two: 11 o'clock and 3 o' clock, both Chemistry, with experiments. 
Alex H. Ayres '46, lawyer, first at Northville, now of Canajo.harie, a __ John Bannard '46, Methodist mins., died at Crescent, Saratoga, Co., last year of dysentery, much lamented. Wm. C. Bockes '46, bro. of Judge Backes, died 1848. 
W. H.J. Brooks '46 went to California. 
Alex. H. Dickson '46, a one-armed man. Pres. mins. at Water.ford, now Dutch Ref. Albany. Bro. ofH. Dickson, Utica. 
J. W. Dunham '46, teacher in various places: Frankfort, Sche.nectady twice, now of Albany(?) a ______________ _ 
Thursday January 11, 1855. Weather moderate, without snow or rain. Wells and cisterns giving out for want of water. But little talked about save hard times and how the poor are to be provided for. Flour $12.25 bbl., potatoes $1. bush. and other things in proportion. Labor is a drug, factories are stopping or on short time --how then do the poor live? 
Rev. C. B. Ellsworth (Epis.) '46 for some years preached at Pierrepont Manor, Jeff[erson] Co .. N. Y. Last year he went to Prattsville to officiate in the church there and to teach in the school there. 
George W. Goss '46 went to California,, returned and married in this city and died soon after. 
Nelson Green '46 died soon after leaving College. 
Rev.John M. Gregory (Bapt.) '46 has preached at Hoosic, I think, 
and perhaps taught there; went teaches and edits a school journal.  to Detroit.  Mich. where he now  
Friday January 12, 1855. Weather d[itt]o. One of those ridiculous squabbles such  as older boys in U. S.  

Congress enact took place in College this afternoon. 
The Senate (Senior debating club) and Ho. of Representatives (Junior d[itt]o. ) each term elect officers, and the former in the 2d term also choose a committee to edit the Commencement Card, thus getting their names into print. The two clubs made these elections the order for this P.M. The latter (Juniors) got thro' after a struggle worthy of a grown-folks election and adjourned. The former (Seniors) unfortunately were so near a tie that it was "which and together" all the afternoon from 2 to 7 o'clock when they adjourned to renew the muss next Friday P. M. Votes never were more in demand at a contested political election. Every absent man of the class was sent for by messenger, by letter or by telegraph and some were almost dug up to swell the ranks. Young men who had left College for a year and half and two years were enlisted and endeavoured to be brought into College again, and the proposition was seriously made and urged to persuit certain youths to enter the class as University students and pay the usual bills of $19. ea. that votes might be gained!! Had the foolish plan been encouraged, it would have been carried into effect immediately, I doubt not. So high did the excitement run that either party would have raised $200 or $300 in 10 m[inutes] time if it would have gained the election for them. 
Dr. Hickok, being Pres. of the Senate, was chairman thro' the whole contest and very much tempered their angry passions. Their tactics were said to be equal to a Nebraska-Bill contest. The parties commenced at two o'clock, one having two maj[orities] by discussing the right of two or three or the[ir] number to a vote, the maj[ority] of course urging on to an election and the minority staving off the trial till more of their men should arrive. They came and the min[ority] became a majority--then the other side turned tale {tail?] and by motions, speaking against time, calling for yeas and nays &c., endeavored to gain time for their men to arrive: they came and threw them in to a maj [ ority] when both sides again changed their tactics. 
This happened three times and would have taken a 4th had not the meeting adjourned at 7 o'clock before the next train brought another fresh supply of voters. 
Saturday January 13, 1855. Windy, cold and rainy, mud and water over shoes. In office all day, writing dunning letters &c. 
James Duane Jones M. D. 46 son of Sarni W. Jones, studied medicine with Wm N. Duane of Schen. with whom he is now in partnership in the practice of medicine in this city. 
I. Foster Jenkins M. D. '46 attended medical lectures at Boston and afterwards commenced the practice of medicine in N. Y. City. 
Hiram H. Perry '46 was for a time tutor in U. Coll., then assis.tant Prof. in Brown Univ. from whence he went abroad a year, returned and is now teaching in Savannah, Ga. 
Howard Potter '46 married James Brown's da[ughter] N. Y., spent a year abroad, returned and studied law with his bro. Clarkson, did not practice the profession but became partner in the firm of Stillman, Allen & Co. He was for a time tutor immediately after leaving College. 
Sunday January 14, 1855. Cold day. Attended Pres. Ch. A. M., heard Prof. L. P. Hickok, Dr. Backus being sick. 
Monday January 15, 1855. 
James Rankine '46 was for sometime tutor in Trinity College Hartford, Conn. of which Dr. Williams was President, at the same time studying divinity --is now, I believe, Mins. near New York. 
Horace B. Silliman '46 studied law but never practiced it much, editor of the "Cataract," at Cohoes, and clerk in a manufacturing establishment. 
John B. Tibbits '46, tutor a short time in College, became a flour merchant and failed in business. 
Peter V. Veeder '46, Tutor in U. Coll., went to Pittsburgh, Penn. and taught, from thence to Germantown, Pa. in the same business, to Princeton Theo!. Sem. to study divinity --and last year abroad for a time. 
Tuesday January 16, 1855. Snow all day moderately, about six inches in all --not enough for sleighing. John T. Wentworth '46 studied and practiced law in Saratoga Springs till 1853 when he went to Chicago, Ill. Edward A. Jellison '46 died in College of typhus fever and his body was carried home to Maine by his father. Justo J. Rodas '46 was a Central American Creole --since died. 
J. Livington Swits '46 studied law but did not practice it, now a 
leather maker at Fort Plain. George Burgess D. D., Bp. of Maine, resides at Gardner, Me. Jesse T. Peck D. D. was Principal of West Poultney Seminary, 
then President of the Methodist College in Carlisle (?), Penn. from whence he went to Washington D. C. James Rawson AM. was an Englishman, a Methodist clergyman, settled in Albany for a time where he studied medicine and received 
M.D.; then at Schen. two years, soon after entered the Epis. Church and lately died in Virginia. 
Wednesday January 17, 1855. Weather from south and snow likely to leave us again. Dr. N. to Albany to look after the temperance bill now about to be brought into the Legislature. Ephraim Goss A. M. '46, a Methodist clergyman, settled in Schen. two years. Warren G. Brown '47 studied law and was for a time a Professor of Law in Fowler's Law School at Saratoga Springs. Wm. B. Christopher is now Prin. áof an academy at Byron, Ill. 
Thursday January 18, 1855. 
James S. Cowper '4 7, a Scotchman; after grad[uation] he studied divinity and became minister of the Pres. Ch. at Oxbow (?), St. Lawrence Co.,: N. Y. Last year he wrote that his residence would be hereafter Scotland. 
James P. Day '47 was threatened with consumption while in College, took a sea voyage for his health, returned and soon after died at home in Cattskill. 
James E. Davis '47, son of Rev. Edward Davis, lives near his father at Ballston Centre. 
John G. Erwin '47 has been a clerk since leaving College: 1st in the Comptroller's office, Albany, for some years, but being dismissed by Compt. Wright went to Detroit in the Office of the Mich. Central R. Road. 
H****loke Woodruff Freeman '4 7, son of Dr. Freeman of Saratoga Spgs., was afflicted with scro[t]ula in College and soon after died of it at home. He was buried in the Rural Cemetery there. 
Friday January 19, 1855. George W. Gilbert '47 has mostly taught in 
the public schools of this city, studied law but never practiced. 
Albert C. Ingham '47, lawyer, for some years settled at Mad.ison, Wis. Secretary of the Wis. Agricultural Soc. and editor of its transactions. 
David King '47, Pres. Mins. of good promise, for short time set.tled in N. ,Y., left for a smaller field of labor in Stillwater, and died of consumption; his widow ( a Miss Lyon) resides in this city. 
Lucius J. Root '4 7, Pres. Mins., was for a time teacher in Carroll Coll.,Wis. 
Daniel Shaw '47 was editor of a newspaper in Cooperstown or Cherry Valley, thence to Milwaukee, Wis. where he edits a daily paper. 
Saturday Jan. 20, 1855. Tremendous rain this morning before daylight and indeed thro' the night, raisingá the small streams to a furious flood. Senior Election postponed to last evening or afternoon, resulted as before in no election--sparring, talking, voting, motioning killing and wasting precious time, and adjourned in great confusion by Dr. Nott. 
Sunday January 21, 1855. A.M. to Bapt. Church, Mr. H. Day. P. M. to Pres. Church, Rev. Dr. Backus. 
Monday January 22, 1855. The upper and visible current of affairs in College flows on evenly and undisturbed with scarcely a ripple; the under current among the faculty &c. is quite otherwise. There are whisperings and grumbling, complaints and dismal forebodings. The root of the evil lies in the want of money, which leads to the nonfulfilment of promises and the expectations of the friends of the College. Having lived on promises and great expectations for 30 years, they naturally feel that the time has come for moving forward. The old story, however, is still reiterated--"two years hence" and then "four or five years" and we shall be well off, but they all go for nothing and are no longer believed. Among other very desirable sirable objects are the erection ... 
Tuesday January 23, 1855 .... of a Library &c. building in the Spring and the distribution of certain Bonds and Mortgages of the Trust 
fund, amounting to $80,000, into certain professorships and 
scholarships. 
To accomplish these objects, and especially the latter, a meeting of the Board of Trustees called for by the Resident Trustees, to which ----"----objects and urges that it is quite unnecessary and will prove fruitless. They in turn feel vexed at his do-nothing policy and nearly despair of removing the incubus from their shoulders. So all progress is hindered because of disunion and disagreeing counsels. One party pushed forward, the other holds back. One says "This is the way, walk ye in it"; the other says "Not so but we have a more excellent way." One says by his actions "Do as I tell you or not at all"; the other says "No." One by his "masterly inactivity" hopes to gain his point, and have his own say and way; the other strives to remove the obstacle softly and kindly and push forward. So now for the present the wheels are blocked and sad displeasure and disgust(?) creep over many who truly desire progress and [a] better state of College affairs. 
Wednesday January 24, 1855. On Monday eve. went with H[ickok?] to talk over state of College affairs with Res. Trust. B[ackus] and P[aige]. staid till 10 o'clock, concluded all around that a meeting of the Board was necessary. 
David Tully, Pres. Mins. '47, studied divinity at Princeton, N. J., married Miss Kelly of Utica and settled in Princetown, N. Y. Three years since commenced a new enterprise there, the erection of a large boarding School to accomadate 300 youths. The whole expense was some $20,000. It is still struggling for life with some prospect of success. 
J. De L. Watkins '47 married Prof J. A. Yates daughter Mary, who died a year since; a gentleman of leisure, 3rd son of Mrs. Gov. Yates, resides in this city in the old Governors Mansion. 
Hiram C. H. Dudley, Meth~ Mins. 
Thursday january 25, 1855. 
P. Albert Ladue '4 7 went to Detroit, Mich., married a sister of 
W. James Stillman, who died lately, is now a lawyer in St. Louis, Mo. William Linn '4 7 son of Hon. A. L. Linn. James B. Smith '47, telegraph operator in St. Louis, Mo. Alfred Conkling LL.D., U.S. Supreme Court Judge, lately Min.
ister to Mexico. David Chassell, a retired Pres. mins., long engaged in teaching at Fairfield and other places. Henry Mandeville D. D., Pres. M[inister], settled in Utica; Prof. in Hamilton College, settled over 4th Pres. Ch., Albany, now past[or] of a Pres. Ch., Mobile, Ala. Author of a series of school books. 
J. Trumbull Backus D. D. was ord[ained] and has been settled since over the Pres. Ch. in this city. 
John Williams D. D., Epis., grad. Harvard Coll., settled in this city; Pres. of Trinity Coll. Hartford, Conn. Assistant Bp. and resides at Middletown, Ct. and has charge of a Divinity School. 
Friday January 26, 1855. Snow storm commenced tonight. 
Albert T. Chester D. D. was tutor in College for a short time with Savage, studied theology, first settled in Ballston, 2dly in Saratoga Springs and 3dly in Buffalo where he now resides. (Pres.) 
Stephen A. Dagget A. M., a respectable lawyer of Schenectady. William L. Aikin'48 has taught most of the time since he left Coll., 1st in Schen. Lyceum and since in New York. Chester A. Arthur '48, son [of] Rev. Wm. Arthur, Bapt. Mins. then of Schen.; studied law and settled in N. Y. George A. Brandreth '48, son of the somewhat celebrated pill.maker, is now Am. Consul at Plymouth, England. James Brownson '48 is a merchant at Whitehall, N.Y. 
Saturday January 27, 1855. Snow this morning one foot deep. 
Alfred D. Churchill '48 of Utica studied medicine and was for a time assistant physician with Dr. Kelly on Blackwells Island, N. Y. City, afterwards studied law and attended law lectures at Harvard College. With Dr. Kelley he sailed in the ship "Constitution" about the 22d of December 1853 for Havre, France. In the great storm a day or two after, the ship foundered at sea and probably all on board perished. 
George K. Dauchy '48 went to California but has since returned and settled(?) in Troy. 
Sunday January 28, 1855. Attended Church in morning at Bapt. Church, Mr. Day. In P.M., Pres. Church. Dr. Hickok preached an excellent sermon. 
Monday [January] 29, 1855. Mild warm weather, and snow fast melting. 
Carlton Edwards '48 studied law and for a time settled in New York where he wrote for the newspapers, now editor of the Albany Evening Express. 
Abraham H. Flanders '48 left Harvard Coll. in some disgrace for a real or fancied offence, graduated here the year following his class. A physician. 
Joel Huntington '48, brother of Dr. H. of Albany, died last Aug. of cholera at Albany. Reuben D. Nevius, Epis. Mins. and teacher at Montgomery, Ala. 
Tuesday January 30, 1855. Warm rain carries off the snow nearly as 
fast as it came. 
John L. Nevius, Pres. clergyman and missionary to Asia. 
Charles Nott '48 settled soon in N. Y. as lawyer. 
Dexter Reynolds '48 studied chemistry at the Appleton School, 
Cambridge, Ms., then law which he now practices in Albany. Robert Rogers '48, lame man, has taught since leaving College, now at Charlotteville. 
Wednesday January 31, 1855. Snow all changed to water or ice. John Root '48, physician at Sheboygan, Wis., now at Buffalo, 
N.Y.
. Edward F. Ross, Cong. Mins. at Morrisiana, N. Y. 

N.J. Seeley, Epis. Clergyman, studied theology at Hartford, Conn. 

A. 
J. Smith '48, teacher to this day, 1st at Gouveneur, then and till Jan. 1855 at the Union School, Palmyra, of which he was principal. Youngs C. Smith '48, teacher in the Methodist Academy Kingston, Penn. where he has been some years. 


Wm. J. Stillman '48, artist, painter, better critic than maker of pictures, traveled in Europe, returned and now edits the "Crayon," 
N. Y. 
Thursday February 1, 1855. Quarter-day and only two-thirds of the sum necessary to pay salaries. It will be a blessed day when U. C. gets out of its money troubles and has enough to meet its current expenses. As it is, our income is insufficient for present engage.ments, much less for very desirable and needful improvements and additions. 
Charles H. Taylor '48, Pres. Mins., for a time tutor in U. C. 1st settled in Esperance, last year removed to Ballston Centre. Alex J. Thompson '48, lawyer, for a little time in New York City, then returned to Schenectady, his native place. Abraham Van Wormer '48 practiced law for a time in Troy from whence he went to N. York City. 
Wm. H. Bannister '48 follows teaching, was Prin. of Johnstown Acad. for some years, and now of the New Claverac Academy, or Boarding School. 
Friday February 2, 1855. Moderate winter weather. We have not had any severe cold since in December. 
Moses W. Staples '48 made himself some way obnoxious to the students and found it convenient to leave College, now a Pres. Mins. in Texas. 
S. Wells Williams, a native or once a resident of Utica, missionary to China. Ebenezer Halley D. D., a Scotch mins. before coming to Troy, a mins in Salem, N. Y. Herman Hooker D. D., Epis. mins., engaged in publishing and book-selling in Philadelphia. Zadoc Pratt, A. M., a self-made man, a tanner by trade, wealthy and a little vain. Mem. Congr. two terms &c. 
James R. Irish '48 was a short time in College, left and soon became 7th day Bapt. mins.; taught DeRuyter Acad. for some years and was at same time pastor of a ch. there which he still retains but has given up the Academy. 
Saturday February 3, 1855. At 8 o'clock A. M. started on R. R. for Troy; when nearly half way the tire of the Driver broke which obliged us to move on quite slowly. Sent a man back to stop a freight train which came thundering after us at a great pace, reached the Half-way House, hitched to the freight and arrived in Troy 9 1/2 o'clock. To West Troy Bank for a deposite of rents for College ($343.75), across the river on the ice to the Depot to take train for Albany at 111/4 o'clock and just in time. 
Saw an "ice boat" on the river, moved at astonishing speed by the wind. The construction is simple, cheap and effective. It is a platform on three iron or steel shoes or runners, the hindmost movable on an axis to throw the platform round when moving. All the evolutions of a boat are readily made with it, such as tacking, beating, scudding before the wind &c. thus -.
[PIACE SKEfCH HERE] 
To Albany (East) in 20 m., crossed on the ice as above; lunch at Narcisse Remond's, bought some chemical glassware &c&c., and fi.nally to State Library; met Alfred B. Street, Librarian, chat of an hour on various subjects: the "Crayon," which he commends highly and says he will write for it on eyes and eye-sight, says he is distressingly near-sighted, incurable by glasses, a family affliction; to keep eyes strong, bathes them three times a day in cold water; about the duties and troubles of his office; about the conveniences and wants of his new Library Building --too dark and wants side rooms for Librarian, storing, packing and unpacking &c. Seven 
o'clock P. M. at home 
Sunday, February 4, 1855. Cold and windy. To church Bapt. in A. M .. Mr. Day. An attempt soon to be made to finish the house. 
Monday February 5, 1855. Cold, windy, &c. Had talk with V. P. Hickok as to what the proposed, desired, and much talked-of new building should be. He proposes to divide it thus. 
[SKETCHESHERE] Dr. Nott proposes the following .{SKETCHESHERE} A third proposition is as follows: {SKETCHESHERE} 
Of these three plans for dividing the building, which is to be like its mate (new Phil. Hall) 80 ft. x SOft., the second suits my liking best, altho it is doubtful if it will be adopted. The first will perhaps suit most minds best. The proposed tower ~ould cost say $500 to $600 but would make the building safer from fire and afford a suitable place for the bell and the bell-ringer. 
Tuesday February 6, 1855. Thermometer -12 ¡ at sunrise and from -10¡ to -12 ¡ during the day with a sharp cutting wind from the north. Tonight at 10 o'clock thermometer stands at -16 ¡ and falling rapidly. In addition, I have to note frequent earth-tremblings. Between 10 and 11 o'clock last night there occurred three, the last quite strong, shaking the doors and accompanied with rumblings. This morning betw. 6 and 7 o'clock while in bed J felt two other slight shocks. Tonight at 10 o'clock another, with a dull heavy sound like the falling of some heavy body, shortly after succeeded by a slight trembling. Some of my neighbors were quite alarmed last night. Several got up and one searched his house to see what had happened. 
The poor suffer for wood and provisions this cold winter, or ra.ther I may [say] for work to do. Prices are unprecedently high, and labor and wages quite as low, and hard to be had. 
Wm. Wrightson '48 was a teacher in Albany Acad., now editor of a Railway Journal in Cincinnati of which his bro. is printer and proprietor. 
George B. Anderson '49, son of Wm. Anderson, tanner, formerly ofSchendy. 
Wm. G. Aikin, physician, died of cholera last summer in Chicago. 
Abel Beach '49, lawyer, taught for a time and now applies for. a professorship in the new Iowa Univ. at Iowa City. 
T. Bibb Bradley '49 taught at Canajoharie, edited a paper at Huntsville, Ala., published an oration and lastly a vol. of poetry with a female cousin. 
Wednesday February 7, 1855. This morning at 7 o'clock ther.mometer indicated a temperature of -20 á, tonight at 10 o'clock +2 á with a moderate fall of snow. The slight shocks of earthquakes, yesterday mentioned, are considered no more than the effects of intense cold upon the frozen earth. I am incredulous. Part of the day contriving and drawing plans for the proposed new building. In addi tion to the three given on Monday here is a third [fourth]. 
[SKEfCHIBHERE] Here then are fourá plans, all of which are to be submitted for consideration. 
Great rejoicing Mr. Seward's friends at his re-election to U. S. Senate. 
T. B. Brown '49, son of "chair-maker" Brown of Schendy, went south and taught for a season, returned and took part in his father's cabinet-making business. 
D. A. Butterfield '49, son of "Express Man" Butterfield, and engaged in that business in some capacity. Philo. I. Casler '49 taught Little Falls Acad. some years, last year went to N. Y. to engage in some assaying or gold business. 
Anson G. Chester '49, came to College as a divinity student in prospect, scribbled for some ladies' magazine, departed very much from his original destination, went to Phila., Penn. and was for a time connected with a theatre in some capacity, ditto in New York, next turned up in Buffalo, married an actress and now edits a daily paper there. 
Jabez P. Dake, M. D., homeopathic physician in Pittsburgh, Penn. Nathan D. Dodge '49, only child of Luke D. of Schen., soon after being admitted to practice law died of consumption. 
Thursday February 8, 1855. Four in. snow during the night. Mild to.day. Awoke with severe cold and the usual accompaniments. Hardly able to perform my ordinary duties. 
Russell N. Dunham '49 died a few weeks after his class graduated, of consumption. 
Alonzo Flack '49 Method. mins., took charge of the mammoth boarding school at Charlotteville which he has managed with success. He has also had the management of one or two other concerns of the like magnitude. Now financial [officer?] of the proposed Troy University where a thousand (!!) students are to be "taken in and done for" at almost nothing pr. head --capital stock $500,000 !!! 
L. W. Goddard '49 studied law, married a wife with [whom] he is now travelling in Europe. 
A. H. Green '49 practiced law in Utica, then in Syracuse, back again to U[tica] and finally off to California, I hear. 
Friday February 9, 1855. Four in. more snow this morning, enough for good sleighing if it lays still as there is a prospect now. Cold no better, staid in all day. 
Luther B. Hart '49, a "typo" by trade before coming to College, now Bapt. mins. 
J. Howard King '49 studied law and for two years travelled abroad, returned last year, now in Albany. 
Amasa McCoy '49 was Amasa McCoy Smith when he first entered Coll; before getting thro' he dropped "Smith" as useless, something of a speaker and reader of Shakespeare, became Prof. in Fowlers' Law School at Ballston and latterly a lawyer and editor, in same place, of the Temperance paper. 
David T. Morrill '49, Bapt. mins., studied div[inity] in Rochester Univ. ,was converted while a student in College. 
Saturday February 10, 1855. Fine moderate winter day. Sleighing good and well improved. Out and about business as usual altho' not fully recovered from my cold. In office writing letters --to Bank to deposite money; conversation with V. P. H. on state of Coll. affairs: new building, finances, prospects for future &c. Another new plan for the stairs of new building as follows. 
[SKEfCHESHERE] On the whole the cheapest plan I think, and the best, if the tower be done away with, as most desire. Its only advocate being Dr. N.; and myself faintly, for the reason that wooden stairs are dangerous in public buildings. In a tower they may be cut off from the building by iron doors. 2dly the top of the tower affords a proper place for a bell and a room for the bell-ringer. Its extra cost will be say 500 to 600$. 
Sunday February 11, 1855. Moderate winter day. 
Severe cold kept me in house all day. Wife and children to Bapt. Ch. At breakfast, dinner and tea, Louis and Albert Ruttkay, two young sons of Mad[ame] R., sister of Kossuth. The former is now in College; the latter, messenger in the Senate. 
Call from Chester Averill in the evening. 
Monday February 12, 1855. Fine moderate winter day. Sleighing fine and well improved. In house all day, hope to be out on the morrow. 
J. F. Pettibone '49 studied theol. at Andover, and in the Spring expects to sail for Asia as missionary. 
Wm. C. Phillips came from Madison Univ., preached at Burnt Hills for a year or two, then studied theol. at the Rochester Univ. (Bapt.) 
Fred. W. Seward '49 studied law but did not practice, for some years has been assistant editor of the Evening Journal at Albany. 
0. F. A. Spinning '49, Bapt. mins., 1st settled at Northville (?), then at Shushan, now at Gilbertsville. 
John M. Stark '49 studied medicine but is a clerk in some bank or ins[urance] office and in Wall St., N. Y. 
J. B. Steele Jr. '49 taught for several years and has but lately 
been admitted to practice law. Simon V. Swits '49 has been a grocer in Schen. for some years. 
M. T. Walsworth '49 was studying law whether admitted to the practice, cannot say; married his stepmother's dau[ghter]; both turned Catholics. 
Rev. J. S. Webber, Bapt. mins., a missionary for some years at Stillwater, Wis., now Prin. of a girls' school. 
Tuesday February 13, 1855. Fine mod[erate] winter day. Better, and out to usual duties, recitations, letter answering, &c. Today has brought forth another and sixth project for the new building, thus: 
SKEfCHHER] 
As Dr. N. insists upon having a tower for bell, the above plan is perhaps the least objectionable of all, as it places the tower where it will not mar the general design and at the same time gives all the advantages of front entrance, bellfry, bell-ringers room, stairs outside the new building, stairs to the Colonnade chambers &c&c. desirable. H[ickok] gives in to plan of Saturday and now likes it best of all but still abominates the tower and all its appendages, no matter where placed. G[illespie?] says, "Wait a day or two till my plan is finished. I've made architecture the study of my life, and think my plan is the plan of all" !! 
Submitted plan No. 6. to [Dr. N.] and his wife tonight. Both were pleased with it. He says the tower ought to be lower and out of sight; she says, "No, it ought to be tall and properly conspicuous." He -.that a tower ought always to be in the middle of a building; she says 
"No, a tower may be anywhere if it only comports with the design of the building." Thus they went on till I left, discussing the merits and demerits of towers. A tower it must be then. Anything, I say, if only the building. 
Saw Judge Paige this evening. Showed the plans. According to previous arrangements, a meeting of Resident Trustees was to be called as soon as "Pearson had made the plans." Query: when will it come now, and what the result --disputes and a seperation without result? or a determination to push forward? ----"----says, "Dant call the Trustees together, you will rue it if you do, they will do nothing that we cant do; dont put up the building according to your design, by mortgaging the saleable lands; the Trustees musnt build at all; if they do, they lose the fulcrum of their lever by which they expect to raise funds for all these buildings on the plan. (i.e.) If the Trustees build, and the public see they can help them to $8000, nobody will give any thing of the $75,000 to $100,000 needed just as much. Keep quiet and the building will go up. " How? "Oh! hum! ne-ni-ni -en --it will be built this summer. Keep quiet and the building will go up!! " --and so forth. 
Again ----"----says, "T" he central building will be built in two years. I shall begin to build it two years from next June!! All look and listen incredulously at such pleasant remarks. Who believes it? No one --they have heard such any year these 30 yrs. back. Old birds are not caught &c., no more talk but action! action! action!!! 
Instead of living forever in the future, let us now act for the present! No more delay! The immediate and firm-working friends of College are thoroughly disgusted with this eternal, ceaseless chatter of what is coming two, three, ten yrs. hence, when they know there is not the least intention of fulfilling one iota of the promised designs. So confidence is lost and respect is weakened by a changeable,, vacillating practice devoid of plan or method, and using all sorts of makeshifts to meet the pressing emergencies, leaving the great interests of College to depend upon an unknown future. 
Wednesday February 14, 1855. Mild, moderate fall of moist snow and sleet. Recitation in Chem. Phosporousand its oxygen compounds. Experiments on the making and proper ties of sulphurous acid. Test for sulphuric acid. 
Saw V. P H[ickok], by him advised to call on Judge P[aige] and Dr. Backus in town to learn when the Res. Trustees could meet to consider plans and ways and means for the new building. Down in City at 12 o'clock, found the three Res. Trust[ees] Judge P., Dr. B., and 
C. B. Cochrane at home and ready to meet this evening, took a note from Judge P. to Pres. N. asking his attendance: couldnt attend this 
evening, business to prepare for an intended visit to Albany 
tomorrow, &c. 
What an impracticable set of business men our R[esident Trustees!! Three against one, and one against three!! What ----"---.wants, the three do not; when the three desire to move on, [----"---.pulls back. 
All their views of busines--management, economy and expenditures &c. of College are as diverse as light from darkness. Both parties are firmly set in their views of the propriety of things and neither desire to yeild. So the wheels of business are blocked, nothing is done, or is not done in proper time, for want of concert. One says ----"----lies like a log in our way and will neither go forward nor get out of the way. Another: if we move him, aside he immediately rolls right back into his hole again. A shockingly unpleasant state of things, one that grieves and vexes many friends of College and makes them wish themselves in some smoother waters. 

The [g]ist of the whole matter plainly comes to this, that ---."----desires to retain in his own hands every iota of the power, to think, plan, execute all manner of everything for the College, for Trustees, faculty, students, and servants. The R. T. are restive and determined to assert their own power and authority. Who will yeild we shall see. 
Thursday February 15, 1855. Mild thawing weather, all slush and water. Six inches more of wet snow last night. Phosphuretted hydrogen and chlorine for recitation with experiments on sulphuretted hydrogen. 
Dr. and Mrs. Nott to Albany today, back tonight. Called on Rev. Wm. Payne at 12 1/2 o'clock and borrowed Journals of Gen. Convention Prot. Epis. Ch. for some years back. Wish to collate them with my Gen[eral] Catalogue for the purpose of correcting errors and adding information. He lives in the parsonage next door to the Church in Ferry Street. Round to Van de Bogarts Book Store and so home to dinner at 1 o'clock. 2 1/2 o'clock to College to recitation and home again. 
Friday February 16, 1855. Warm melting day. Snow all slush and water, walking never was worse. Recitation in Chem. Review of the weeks. P. M. no recitation, the humbug House of Representatives (Junior debating club) every Friday taking its place. P. M. to town to make arrangements with P. Potter, College Attorney, to collect rents on West Troy leases. Concluded to go over tomorrow for the purpose 
of serving notices upon the occupants, and so to office and wrote 
twelve notices and prepared to be absent tomorrow. 
Benj. F. Winegar '49, promising young ?], died early just as he began his profession. Jebra W. Britton '49 left College for California, spent 2 or 3 years there, returned, married and settled in N. Y. city as a lawyer. Theodore Hyatt '49, grad[uated] at .Princeton N. J. and has taught at Wilmington, Del. some time back. 
Saturday February 17, 1855. Mild, with some snow squalls. Started at 8 1/2 o'clock A. M. for West Troy where arrived at 10 o'clock. Ran about the Village till 12 serving notices upon tenants, then crossed to Troy --dinner --and to the depot for home at 2.35, where arrived a little before 4. In Troy had a conversation with the fireman who attends to the heating of the Depot rooms (twenty-seven in all) by steam from one boiler; fuel used, 1/2 ton coal per day, the whole arrangement being conducted by one man with comfort and good success. Quere: could not our Colleges be warmed in the same way? Cheaply and safely? The large female Seminary in T[roy] is now warmed in this way and most of the cooking is done from the same boiler. Saw A. A. Wemple in T[roy]., proposes to remove to Schen. in Spring and commence the fuel trade. 
Four o'clock, to office. Balanced cash and closed for the week. Saw V. P .. H[ickok] who informed me of an intended meeting of Res. Trust. this evening to which Judge P. requests my attendance. Home to tea; 7 1/2 o'clock to Dr. Backus study. Present: Dr. Nott, Judge Paige, C. B. Cochrane Esqr. (and self as outsider.) 
General conversation. Dr. N. recounted an adventure in the afternoon in which on his way from Col. Campbell's he broke down his sleigh and had to remain till William (his man) got another. Mr. Cochrane was joked on his defending the kidknappers of Sol. Northrup, being as he was a free sailer; defended himself by saying that Sol. was in league with his kid[k]nappers and [due?] to share with them the profits of his sale, expecting afterwards to get clear. 
Dr. N.: lawyers consciences are elastic. 
Judge P.: When I was attorney (district), Van Patten was tried for the murder of Miss Campbell. Abraham Van Vechten defended him. Just before the trial, he took me aside and said, "Now I am going to defend Van P. just so far as I shall find[him] guiltless and see justice done him; there I shall stop; if guilty, the law must have its course." 
Cochrane:! wouldn't have done so. 
Dr. N. Not many lawyers would; they defend their client right or wrong~ 
Judge P. (Laying the various plans for the new building on the table.) "Here are your plans, Dr., which we are to consider. I think, however, the first business will be to devise the means to pay for it. " Here a general conversation as to the merits and demerits of them, Dr. N. preferring a tower for stairs and bel[fry]; and Judge P. rather preferring a more simple arrangement of straight stairs in the building itself. Dr. N. will probably carry it, altho' nothing definite was settled upon. 
Judge P.: I have ascertained that the requisite funds can be obtained on a mortgage of our real estate if we are authorised so to raise it, but we would should have a meeting of the Board to get the requisite authority. 
Dr. N.: My opinion is that we do not want such a meeting and, moreover, that the Trustees ought not to undertake this building at all themselves. If they do so, we lose our hold upon the public for charity. As soon as we begin to build by mortgaging our property, they will say, "You have money or property enough, you dont need our aid" and you get nothing. The building we must have --and this summer too, and I mean it shall be built -but dont undertake it this way. Say nothing about your lots. Keep them out of the way and say to the public "We want buildings and have nothing to build with," and the funds will come. 
Judge P.: I dont believe we shall get one dollar from the public this 10 yrs. or at least in 5 yrs. Mr. Delavan wont give anything at present. If you can get along without the Library, why I should say let us lay still, but all tlie faculty say this cannot be. Now if you will transfer two of the old professors upon the Trust Fund, we shall have the means of meeting the interest upon the proposed loan, otherwise not, for I understand that our income is not sufficient to meet our expenses now. 
Dr. N.: I do not intend any such arrangement. I am willing to transfer the professors but do not think it right to use the funds thus released for any such purpose. We want them for the purposes of education, and not for building. I intend these buildings shall be put up, but not from the funds of College. I look to the charities of the public. 
Dr. B.: But, Dr. N., the public think the College is rich, that we have $600,000 and need no more money. It strikes me that it will be difficult to raise money from such source, altho' I know if it can be done Dr. N. can do it. I think we want a meeting of the Board for the purpose of authorizing the Res. Trus. to go on with the building, by charity if the Dr. (N.) can raise the funds, but by borrowing if not. 
Dr. N .. We dont want a meeting for any such purpose. What can the Board help us to that all cant do. You have a resolution giving the Res. Trust. all the powers that the Bd. themselves have for the transaction of business. 
Judge P.: But there is a law precluding Trustees to do business without a majority of a quorum present. 
Dr. N.: Now, Gentlemen, I shall not oppose the proposed meeting if you desire it, altho' it is against my judgement. I will yield, but there is a better way. Let Mr. Pearson by your authority borrow $1500 and go on with the bill of timber, which ought to be got out this winter; by Spring if I do not get the money from other sources, then I will of course agree to your borrowing it on a mortgage. 
Mr. C.: I do not see that there is any necessity for borrowing the money or getting the timber now; it can be got next spring. Judge P.: When will Mr. Lowber pay the interest on the 80,000$ mortgage? 
Dr. N.: In June, I suppose. 
Judge P.: Will he be able to raise it then? 
Dr. N.: I suppose so -if not you can enforce payment. 
Judge P.: Would'nt it be well, Dr., to send some man down to examine the affairs of Crane and Ely? 
Dr. N.: 1shall endeavor to act the part of an honest man then! I believe they are doing as well as they can and that more will be realized from that property than you are aware of. In two or three years you will begin to receive considerable assistance from that source. 
Having talked till 10 o'clock the matter here dropped, all re.tired; helped Dr. N. to his sleigh, rode to my own house, wrote this and to bed. 
So ends the much sought-for, much-labored for, much-wished .for meeting that was to result in the commencement of the new building. --Oh ! Oh ! 
Sunday February 18, 1855. Mild but windy --thawing. A. M. Family to Bapt. Ch., Rev. Mr. Day. P. M. d[itt]o to Pres. Ch., Rev. Mr. Backus. After ch[urch] read to the children, "Irish Amy," a very good story for little folks. 
Monday February 19, 1855. Weather ditto. Recitation in Chem. -.chlorine made. Phosphuretted hydrogen --vile stuff! Wrote a few letters, time so chopped up into little driblets that no leisure occurs for more agreeable pursuits; too many irons in the fire, some must burn. Gillespie says he is going to Europe in the spring, to return in Aug. Pays his own expenses and offers to expend his quarter's salary in apparatus for the College. Peissner also wants to revisit his native Bavaria and talks of it. Doubtful. 
Tuesday February 20, 1855. Windy, moderately cold. Recitation in Chem. , hydrochloric acid. Experiments on Chlorine &c .. Saw ---."----last night, talked about the Library Building, inquired about the propriety of getting timber, doors, windows and for it this winter. Says he is going to put it up this summer, to get the money himself &c. The whole matter is narrowed down to this: the strife is between ----"----and the Res. Trust. to see who shall manage the financial affairs of College. ----"----is determined to do all himself from the driving a stake to the building of a Chapel, and the Res. Trust. seem equally disposed to assert their authority in the case. Who will carry it? We shall see. 
Gardner Scriven '49 lawyer in Albany, from whence he went to 
N. Y. tlS. Sal'd.....77 II 
Henry N. Strachn (or Strong as he once wrote it) '49 left early in his course and went west, became at last an Epis. Mins. and settled in Marshall, Mich. 
David Murdock 0. D. '49, a Scotch Mins. (Pres.), was settled for a time at Ballston Centre, thence to Catskill, lastly and now at Elmira. Wm. W. Clarke A. M. '49 was for some time a teacher in the Normal School, Albany; left. 
Wednesday February 21, 1855. Mild,'windy, pleasant. Rec. in Chem., iodine and hydriatic acid; made hydrochloric acid and showed the properties. Wrote letters &c. News came by telegraph of the death of Daniel Sheldon, only brother of Mrs. Nott, residing at Hunterspoint near N. Y., of fever and congestion of brain. His sickness was short and death sudden and unexpected to his friends. He was bookkeeper to Crane and Ely in their real-estate operations in connection with Dr. Nott. His age betw. 60 and 70. 
Seven 1/2 oclock P. M. at an old folks party at Judge Paige's. Present: Mrs. Platt Potter, Dr. and Mrs. Hickok, Dr. and Mrs. Lewis, John B. Duane, Prof. Wm. M. Gillespie, Rev. Julius Seelye and lady, Mrs. Cady, Allen H. Jackson, the two Misses Kelly, Mrs. Cady, two Miss Grahams, Miss Hall from Geneva, Prof. Peissner, Self and Wife. 
1 Coffee and tea --muffins and cake 
2 to top with at 9 1/2: oysters, ice cream and jelly, cocoa nut &c. Goodbye and off. Walked home with Prof. Peissner and Drs. Hickok and Lewis. Tomorrow being College fast day, we have preaching in A.M. and no recitations. Dr. and Mrs. N. to N. Y. to.morrow morning to attend the funeral of Mr. Sheldon. "Morning Star," a little daily by Clarke and Colburn, appeared this morning. 
Thursday February 22, 1855. Moderate, thawing. Mrs. and Dr. Nott to New York. Fast and Washington's birthday. 
Rev. Ray Palmer D. D. at 10 o'clock preached in College Chapel from 1. Samuel XVI. 7. Man desires the esteem of others. Why then does he disregard the approbation of his Maker? 1. That God looks upon the heart involves a knowledge of his thoughts, acts &c. What power has thought! What variety! How manifold! How unworthy often, and humiliating! 
2. 
That God looks upon the heart implies a knowledge of our feelings. We try to hide our feelings. God knows them altogether. 

3. 
That God looks upon the heart involves a knowledge of all our particular resolves and purposes. Man strives to hide bad pur.poses and show only what are good. 

4. 
That God looks upon the heart implies a knowledge of the true springs of all our motives. Our accountability to God is a vastly momentous affair to us. He will bring us into judgement for all the secrets of our souls. Fearful thought! not one of us can rid ourselves of this accountability. 


The need of an Attoning Sacrifice.in view of all this. 
P.M. To G.I. Van Vranken, carpenter, to consult about the doors, windows &c. of new building. To I. C. and I. Horsfall, lumber merchants, to inquire about the timber for same. Both say, Begin now to save expence and time, and to get a good article, all of which was certain before. 
Friday February 23, 1855. Weather ditto, but at night clear, still and cold. Thermometer 6 á at 9 P.M. Rec. in Chem., bromine, fluorine, and hydrofluoric acid. Experiments on iodine. 
The College having executed a deed, drawn up in accordance with the views of the Board of Education and Trustees of the College, was submitted a few weeks since to the Common Council for their sanction. On Wednesday night after much and long discussion, the in.strument was rejected. The ostensible reason is that in the deed is a clause making it incumbent upon the city to rebuild the West College in case it is burned. 
The true reasons are various according to the prejudices and grudges of the several opponents. 1. A jealousy of the College and a mean, ignoble fear that the Trustees will have some influence in the arrangement of the academic department. 2. Suspicion and fear that the city will be over-reached by Dr. Nott, who is looked upon by the ignorant vulgar as a witch, a scheming, intriguing, foxy old man, always having some hidden design to accomplish a selfish end. In the discussion, I am told, he was roughly handled and called everything but an honest man. 3. A dislike to spend any thing for the good of the city whether in schools or otherwise. Many taxpayers would sooner go on forever without schools ~han that one dollar should be added to their taxes. 4. A desire to get the West College for nothing, altho of.fered to the city for less than half its value, because it is said that the College has already realized enough to pay for the 1st cost, therefore the Trust[ees] should give it. ~It is charged that College has broken the conditions of the deed from the city and therefore the property ought legally to revert. And so on. 
Five-thirty P. M. With wife called on Thomas Palmer and family in Washington Street. He has long been sick with consumption and is now quite feeble. Found him cheerful and comfortable. Talked of his classmates in College and the Professors at his time. Remembers Pres. Edwards well, a man of fine parts and much respected. A wrong answer or a bad recitation always brought "Handrecte" [?] from him. Altha grave and sober ordinarily, he had a keen sense of the ludicrous and would sometimes laugh so immoderately in the lecture room as to be obliged to dismiss his class. 
Remembers Dr. Maxcy well also: rather an indolent man, but a fine belles lettres scholar, a fine speaker and eloquent preacher. Whenever it was known he was to preach, the church was always crowded. He brought several students with him from Rhode Island Coll. (now Brown Univ.) His sons were Virgil, Homer, and Milton, so far as I know. The latter studied law with Henry Yates, Jr. 
Col. John Taylor was a most pleasant companionable man, a great admirer of ***phan[?] which he knew by heart. When out of the recitation room, he was on very friendly, intimate terms with the students, who loved him much. He died here of yellow fever and was buried in the Dutch burying ground. 
Dr. Benj. Allen was a great mathematician, came from Conn. and left on account of some intrigues and opposition of the Y __ 's {Yates?] family which had much influence in the Board. 
Dr. Yates was irritable and unpopular with the young men, who played all manner of tricks upon him. One was to post about town that Dr. Y. had opened a butcher shop and offered good cuts for sale with an N. B. --the highest price given for carrion. Another by James Van Schoonhaven Sylvanus Haight (afterward a clergyman) and (I forget the third) was played on the Dr. in the spring when a heavy snow had become water and slush. One carried a log of wood to the Dr.'s usual rounds about the building at night and throwing it down before him as he approached, another pushed him over it and rolled him in the mud and water. Knew Prof. Vander Heuvel,, who was is partnership with Dr. Van Ingen in the apothecary business. 
G. B. Gardner was a tutor. He went to New York soon after he was licensed to preach and was invited to occupy S. N. Rowan's pulpit. As they were going to the pulpit, Rowan observed that Gardner had no written sermon, not even a note of the heads of it. R. asked him if he did not use notes. G. said No, did'nt need any; never had. R. thought it rather hazardous to risk the trial without them. Gardner commenced his sermon, progressed well for a time but, finally, either R's remarks or the newness and strangeness of a city church and congregation so intimidated him that every idea he intended to say was lost and he was obliged to sit down. R. announced to the congregation that his bro. was taken suddenly ill, took up the thread of the discourse and finished the sermon. 
Six-thirty home to tea. 
Saturday February 24, 1855. Cold and windy. Thermometer O at 7 o'clock. A. M. to 12 o'clock, posting accts. to the ledger for the month of January. Writing letters &c. 
Jacob H. Aikin 'SO taught for a time in the Schen. Lyceum, studied law with J. G. Mcchesney, and died last fall of bleeding at the lungs. 
R. J. W. Buckland 'SO taught for some time in the Deaf and Dumb Asylum, N.Y., studied theology at same time preparatory to be.coming a Bapt. Minister. 
E.H. Crocker 'SO, a Civ[il] Engineer at Aberdeen, Miss. 
D.J. 
Darrow 'SO taught [in] the Schen. Lyceum for a time, went [to] California and right back again, now resides in Schen., looking for a place to teach. 

S. 
Mills Day 'SO, a printer by trade, studied theol. at Auburn, now Pres. Mins. at Hammondsport, N. Y., a poetaster also. 

R. 
L. Dodge 'SO while a student in Coll. went to Cal., came back graduated and returned. 


John L. Douglass 'SO, Bapt. Mins., preached some time, was ac.cepted as missionary to Burmah, just before sailing lost his wife, which delayed his departure, since when have not heard of his going out. 
' 
Sunday February 25, 1855. Cold and windy. A. M. Whole squad to Bpt. Ch. Rev. A. Day preached. P. M. Self, wife and Willie to Pres. Church. Dr. Backus preached. Home and read to children in evening. 
Monday February 26, 1855. Cold and very windy. Usual routine of the day. Rec. in Chem., carbon and carb. oxide. Experiments on hydrofluoric acid. 
5 P.M. self and wife to call on Dr. Backus. Conversation with 
him about minutes of the Pres. Church Gen. Assembly. Borrowed the 
republication of them from 1789 to 1821 for the purpose of 
gathering facts relating to the graduates of Un. College. 
Wednesday February 27, 1855. Cold, windy, very windy piercing thro everything. Rec. in Chem., carbonic acid. Experiments on hydrofluoric acid and carbon and carbonic oxide. 
Dr. and Mrs. Nott arrived this evening from N. York. Died Mrs. Abraham Clute (Quackenbush) of inflamation of the lungs, suddenly. 
Wednesday February 28, 1855. Weather a little milder. Rec. in Chem., light carb. hydrogen and olefiant gas. Experi-ments on carbonic acid. 
Wakeman W. Edwards 'SO went south soon after graduating to teach and is there now perhaps. Sarni. T. Freemen 'SO studied law and practices in Schen. 
H. W. Fulton has taught in Va. for some years. 
James Gilmour 'SO, a Scotchman very much of a Yankee, however, in money and business matters, looking out well for the main chance. Entered College without money or friends of influence and left with 800$ after paying his necessary expenses. This he accomplished by peddling books and stationery to the students; went home to Scotland and spent a year there and on the continent, re.turned and finished his theological studies at Princeton Theol. Sem. from whence he came to the boarding school at Princeton N. Y. as Principal. He brought over two bros. and a sister to be educated here, one of whom is in College now. 
Thursday March 1, 1855. Mild spring-like day. Recitation in Chem., cyanogen, bisulphuret of carbon, boron, boracic acid. Experiments, olefiant gas. Up and down to town, on business. 
Henry Barnard, L.L.D., superintendent of Common Schools for Connecticut, arrived this evening according to previous arrangement with the School Commissioners of the city, for the purpose of delivering a lecture to the Citizens [on] education and to examine West College, and to advise them in regard to the arrangement of the public schools, now about to be commenced. The town talk is still upon the rejection of the deed of West College by the Common Council, and among other reasons (before given) are 
1. 
That Dr Nott has promised to give the city the "Vale" for a public walk and has not done it; ergo no dependance can be put upon his words. 

2. 
That Dr. N. has tied everything up in this deed in such a manner as to give the future citizens no choice nor liberty, as though they were children and did not know their own interests and concerns .. 


Had a talk with Judge Johnson who says, Dr. N. by his odd ways of doing business and tying up things drives all his friends away from him, as tho' all wisdom was to die with him and future generations should know nothing. 
Friday March 2, 1855. Mild, and warm. Snow fast wasting away. Rec. in Chem., review of the week.á All the rest of the day, searching records at Co. Clerk's office, deeds of the various transfers of the West College backwards and forwards, and drawing various maps of the property --all for the Board of Education who are about to publish a counter-statement to the Committee of the Common Council 
At 9 o'clock A.M. visited the West College with Dr. Nott. H. Barnard LLD. of Conn., Dr. Hickok, Nicholas Van Vranken, Dr. Duane and Hiram Champion --all of whom met there for the purpose of inspecting the building with a view of its adaptedness to the purposes of a school for the city. á 
In P. M. Mr. Willard drew a plan of the West College for the same gentlemen. Dr. Barnard's decision was that is the best building in the State for school purposes. 
Saturday March 3, 1855. Weather ditto and snow wasting fast. Good part of the day collecting facts respecting the West College property 
for  the  use  of  Judge  Paige  to  be  incorporatated  into  the  
Commissioners' of Education report.  
Sunday  March 4, 1855.  Weather  warm.  Water running  down  our  

streets like rivers. A. M. To Pres. Church, Dr Backus. P.M. to Bapt. Ch., Mr. H. Day. 
Monday March 5, 1855. Mild, wind south, signs of rain which came in the evening gently with the thermometer 45 á. Rec. Chemistry, amonia compounds. Experiments with coal gas, safety lamp &c. 
----"----says order the bill of timber for the new building and charge it to me!! Another call from Judge Paige for information relating to West College. 
Petition from students to President to have our Post Office matters in town better regulated, complaints that it is managed by boys who are cross and unaccomadating, refuse to look for letters when they are in the office, incapable, inefficient, careless and provoking --much of which is true, but how to remedy it? 
Henry Barnard LLD., Superintendent of Pub. Insruc., Conn., lectures tonight at the 1st Dutch Ch. 
Tuesday March 6, 1855. Mild and windy. Snow slowly melting. 
Rec. in Chem., gen[eral] properties of the metals and experiments on oil gas. More information for Judge Paige relating to West College. A map of Building and Grounds for H. Barnard LL.D. who is [to] arrange the rooms, yards, etc. for the Commissioners of Education. 
Wednesday March 7, 1855. Weather ditto. Henry Anable (and new wife) late from California at Dr. Nott's. Nephew of Mrs. N. Rec. in Chem., potassium and its compounds. Experiments with boracic acid and potassium and potash. 
Elias B. Glen '50 taught [in] the acad. at Canajoharie for some years (?), last year went to Mo. Wm. W. Hewlett 'SO was drowned a few weeks after gradua.tion at home. 
W. E. McCormick 'SO soon after grad[uation] went to California, soon returned, and ls now studying law in Ithaca. Charles F. Preston 'SO, after graduating at Princeton Theo!. Sem. sailed last year for China on a mission. George R. Putnam '50, one of the proprietors of Union Hall, Saratoga Springs. Albert Richards 'SO died of dysentery at Lyons while on his 
way west only a few weeks after graduating. Silas Smith 'SO has taught to this time in Saratoga Co. Julius Stevens 'SO was a Methodist, married a Campbellite wife 
who converted him to her faith; after spending a few years at or near Buffalo, N.Y., he last year removed to a place a few miles from Cleveland, Ohio. He is a preacher and editor of a monthly religious journal of small merit. 
Thursday March 8, 1855. Mild and melting weather. Rec. in Chem. 
So sodium and its compounds. No experiments. 
Ordinary routine in office and recitation room. More informa.tion relating to West College for Judge Paige. Dr. N. to Albany yesterday and back today. 
Treasury dry and empty. Professors and all concerned, growling with good reason for their pay which in part remains unpaid. The blame being thrown upon the right persons, the Treasurer feels that he has done his duty and should be exonerated of all blame in the matter. 
Friday March 9, 1855. Windy, mild, &c&c&c. Rec. in Chem., arsenic and arsenious acid. Experiments, tests for arsenious acid. 
Called upon ----"----for money due College, some 1,500$; "hemmed" and "hawed, turned this way and that, looked at the account and finally said he expected L[owber?] up today and would see what [could] be done. In other words, cant pay, so Profs. must go without salary and the grumbling and growling be kept up. 
Saturday March 10, 1855. Cold and windy. 
A.M., copying catalogue of 600 species of dried plants to be sent to C. A. Joy in Paris, France, for exchange. Writing some letters, &c. ----"----came into office and said about the 15th inst. he would have some money and would pay the Treasurer some, good news and hope not to be disappointed. ----"----'s money promises, however, are liable to fail, ,very liable. á 
P.M. Boxed up two sets of plants for Joy, one to go to him at Paris, the other to Bremen, about 600 species in each, two specimens of each and often more; a catalogue accompanies each box, together with a copy of "Woods Botany." 
Five o'clock to Express Office to see about getting the boxes off on Monday. Nobody in. To the (Rigg's) printing office for circulars, to Vandebogart's bookstore and paid a bill, to grocer's, home. 
Seven o'clock putting up and directing circulars to graduates for information for a Biographical Catalogue. Whether anything will come of them remains to be seen. 
Sunday March 11, 1855. Pleasant spring day. A. M. to Bapt. Ch., a Mr. Curtis preached. Mr. Day preaching in Scotia. P. M. to Pres. Ch., Rev. Dr. Backus preached. 
Monday March 12, 1855. Mild, spring-like &c. Rec. in Chem., arsenic and compounds, copper and lead. Experiments, tests for copper, lead and iron. 
Posting accts. of February. To town at 12 1/2 with V. P. H[ickok] talking of financial matters of College and ----"----. 5, to town again with wife, home again at 6. Tea and directing circulars to graduates. 
Tuesday March 13, 1855. Cooler, with a brisk fall of snow at night, 
prospect of heavy fall of same. Rec., review nomenclature and 
notation in Chem. No experiments. 
Posting books. Call from Rev. Mr. Boardman of Philadelphia, Sunday School agent, who once or twice a year visits the Colleges and Theol. Seminaries to enlist young men in the service of the S[unday S[chool] Union to establish schools in destitute portions of the country. Enquired of him respecting Rev. Thos. L. Hamner, an agent of the S. S. Union, who died last year; referred me to his bro., Rev. Dr. Hamner of Baltimore. T. L. H. was a man of great industry, and had considerable power in addressing children, labored much at the South but near the time of his death had a disagreement with the S. 
S. Committee having the management of affairs at headquarters because they desired to employ him mostly at the South. 
He bolted from their authority and refused to obey their directions, desiring to confine his labors in Philadelphia. The same self-will and rebellion against the authority or advice of others was a characteristic of him. In his last sickness he refused to take the medicine of the physician and to obey his nurse, the effects of bad training in childhood. His wife and two children died the same month with himself. 
Conversed respecting religious influences of our Colleges -.whether a light moral and religious tone was as apt to be kept up in Colleges of all denominations as in sectarian Colls. Many think not and perhaps with truth because the Profs. are afraid to move lest their fellows should accuse them of proselyting, and the officers of sectarian colleges are urged to their duty by the fact their sect expect a good religious influence from them and call them to an account if such be not the case. Four P. M. saw him again in Dr. Nott's house, also Henry Anable, who goes to N. Y. tomorrow. 
Wednesday March 14, 1855. Four in. snow last night, mild today, wind south, sloppy etc. Rec. in Chem., review laws [of] chem[ical] combination. No exper[iments]. 
Usual routine in office and rec. room. Had another talk with --.-["----on financial matters, unsatisfactory and perplexing. It arose from his son j's drawing on the Treas'y for money without leave, which draft the Treas'r. feels indisposed to accept; also from ----" -.
--'s desiring Treas'r. to order timber for the new building before it is determined upon and money raised or provided to meet bills. All the old ground so often travelled was gone over, the old charges made again, the old complaints reiterated, and the same result arrived at. Both parties of the same opinion, parting as they always have unconvinced, altho' in good nature. A most incorrigible, hard.headed man, without order or system in business. 
Thursday March 15, 1855. Mild, thawing, some drizzling rain. Chem. 
A. M., did not hear the bell and missed recitation. P.M. Rec. Review, Chap. in Draper's Chem. on chrystallization &c. Experiment to analyse water and potassium. 
Another long conversation on finances, management of College affairs etc with ----"----from 10 to 12 o'clock: the same road over again that we have so often travelled before; with the same result-.non-agreement. On my own part, tried to speak plainly but respectfully my opinions, to abide by my consientious convictions of duty, to refuse compliance with what seemed any attempts to urge me aside from duty, considering myself as the agent of the Trustees and not of----"----or any other man. He on the other hand, altho' vexed with what he considers my stubborness and obstinacy, was on the whole mild and pleasant, treasuring up no ill-feeling for my non.compliance with his desires. It may not be proper to speak of the subjects and words of the discussion. 
A strange character! a curious bundle of good qualities and defects! Humble and yet self-conceited! Shrinking from display and yet none more susceptible of praise and flattery! Just in many cases, but greedy of credit even where due to another! yeilding yet opinionated, and obstinate to rule and direct in his own way! Intensely avari[ci]ous of money for a good object, as he thinks, but entirely with[out] order or system in making and managing it, rushing headlong into wild speculations and scarcely ever taking the longer, safer and surer methods of acquiring money! 
Sister Mary A. Magoun and Edward M. arrived yesterday from Hudson. Startling news by the Africa of the Empero[u]r of Russia's death. 
Friday March 16, 1855. Mild etc. Rec. in Chem. Review. Changes which accompany chemical action. 
Evening. Small tea party consisting of Rev. Mr Seelye and wife, Dr. Hickok, Miss Elizabeth Fuller, Mrs. Henry Anable, Sister M. A. Magoun, Miss Fanny Fisk. Chat on various subjects and off at 9 o'clock. 
Saturday March 17, 1855. Mild --a flirt of snow, a little rain, and "splosh." A dull, uninteresting day: nothing new, various speculations about the death of Emp. Nicholas, some doubt it: and if true some say 'twill stop the war: others say nay but will urge it on the more. The next steam packet must decide the doubt. 
Sunday March 18, 1855. Fine pleasant clear day. A.M. to Baptist Ch. Rev. Mr. Day preached. P. M. To Presbyterian Ch .. heard Dr. Backus. Dr. Nott Preached in Dutch Ch. Dr. Hickok went to Waterford to attend the funeral of [an] old parishioner of his in Bethel, Conn., Mr. Mansfield, father of Lewis W. Mansfield, my classmate. Bro.-in-Law Magoun came last night at 12 o'clock. 
Monday March 19, 1855. Delightful spring day. Magoun &c. started this morning at 9 o'clock for home, Hudson. Henry Anable and wife for Greenpoint in same train. Rec. Review: oxygen. Writing dunning letters. Temperance meeting this evening to awaken some interest in the Bill now before the Legislature. Held in Presbyterian Church. 
Tuesday March 20, 1855. Two or 3 in. snow during the night. Cool and windy. Rec. in Chem: Review oxygen and hydrogen. Exper.: Analysis of water by Galvanic Battery. Usual Routine in Treas. Office. 
----"----complains much of his eye-sight getting dim. 
Term drawing to a close, the humbug of an examination to be again enacted without examiners. It must be confessed that we have fallen off sadly in this respect within the last 20 years. 
Wednesday March 21, 1855. Cool. Raw March day. Rec. Review: water &c. 
----"----now intends to leave for N. Y. on Monday next to be absent the whole vacation. How, then, are arrangements to be made for a meeting of the Board of Trustees and for the new Library building? The Res[ident] Tr[ustees] urge an immediate call for the assembling of the Bd. ----"----, they think, hopes to stave it off till May and from thence to July when the season will be too far advanced for building and nothing will be done this year. 
So complete a stand-still in all business is disgraceful to all concerned, the two powers: ----"----and Res. Trust. agree in almost nothing, save to do nothing; they differ in almost all matters of business and neither feel inclined to yeild. Put off --Put off --delay, do nothing, is the practical cry of the authorities who should encourage progress and improvement. 
Thursday March 22, 1855. Cold, raw, windy. Rec. in Chem. Review-.nothing, whole hour being taken up with experiments with oxy(gen), hydrogen, blowpipe. 
Examination, in Senior Chapel, of those who are deficient in certain studies by reason of absence &c. Profs. present: Jackson, Lewis, Foster, Newman, Pearson; adjourned at 9 o'clock. At Dr Nott's a few m[inutes]: found him with his right eye tied up on account of inflammation, advised him not to use his eyes so much, especially nights, to get a young person for amanuensis and reader. Answer: that candle light did not hurt his eyes so much as daylight. Spoke of the death of Emp. Nicholas, and the prophecy made some months since by a spiritual to the effect that some great personage would die within three mos. &c. Thought this fulfilment, whether an accidental coincidence or not, would be seized upon by the spiritualists as a confirmation of their revelations. 
Friday March 23, 1855. Cold, windy, and Marchy. Rec. Review: atmospheric air and nitrogen. No experiments. 
Usual Routine of office. Made out order [of] course of Examination to be submitted to Faculty, revised course of studies for next term. Five o'clock, faculty meeting in Treasury Office. Present: Vice Pres. Hickok, Profs. Jackson, Lewis, Newman, Gillespie, Peissner, Tutor Millard and self as secretary. 
1. 
Read Order of Examinations, altered and accepted it 

2. 
Read course of studies for next [term], approved 


3. Read the Roll of the various classes to learn the standing of the students in scholarship and conduct. As usual some cases of wo[e]ful neglect and bad conduct, dissipation, drinking &c. Two nights agone a party of drunken students, shouting and singing, threw stones at various windows of the College building[s], demolishing the glass &c. 
Dr. Nott at Albany all day. Heard that Mr. E. G. Delevan's little son John was sick and given up by his friends. Common Council have accepted the Deed of West College --the Mayor has resigned rather sign the deed and bonds ! 
Saturday March 24, 1855. Cold and windy. 
"Shinning" about to raise money for Gillespie and Peissner who are about to leave for Europe. Saw ----"----, no money: old story over again; in brief, good-naturedly complained of my hardheadedness and obstinacy, laid down the following rule for an agent: that he may act contrary to the known wishes of his principal for his (Principal's) benefit, within the limits of his responsibility, that is up to the amount of his own property, which must go to make up any losses that may accrue from his departure from said principal's orders!! Also that I have a right, and that it is proper for me, to obey his (---." ----s) directions even if contrary to known rules so long as I suppose him responsible for consequences, and answerable to the Trustees! 
A fine code of proceedure for an Agent! J[udge] P[aige?] dissented in toto. from ----11----'s reasoning, advocated strict construction of law, and firm obedience to written or known rules of business &c&c. Came away as before unconvinced and grieved to see such one-sided unsound advice given. 
Sunday March 25, 1855. Cold, windy. A. M. to Pres. Ch. with wife, it being the communion season, at which Drs. Backus and Hickok officiated. Uncommonly large number of communicants. Evening 7 o'clock to Pres. Ch. with wife to hear Dr. Nott preach. Text. Gospel of John 14 c. 3d. v. Subject the Resurrection, which he handled well and to the edification of a large audience. His voice, which is sometimes quite feeble and uncertain, was quite strong and audible. Dr. N. has been a good deal lauded for his eloquence ever since the time of his settlement in Albany and the sermon on the death of Hamilton. 
In what does it consist? This question was asked me some weeks since by the poet Street, at Albany, who had lately heard him with great pleasure. He remarked that there was nothing remarkable in his sermon, that [it] would not read any better than an ordinary one of many other clergyman. He came to the conclusion that the pleasure derived from his speaking was in the admirable manner in which he delivered his thoughts, his clear, distinct utterance, correct and forcible accent, graceful position, few and appropriate gestures. Right. 
Few men are better readers than Dr. N. A few verses read in his deliberate, emphatic manner give more pleasure than many a sermon. As for genius, as the term is usually understood among liter.ary men, I think he has none. His productions cost him an infinite deal of labor, pruning, polishing, correcting, and adding; and always convey the impression of being labored and artificial; they smell of the lamp. He has never written much, at least for a literary man of 82, and excepting his sermon and the death of Hamilton his lit. labors will not long outlive him. 
When a student in College, we had fabulous accounts of the literary treasures of the President and the splendid offers which the publishers made him for the same. It will probably appear that he has nothing beyond a few sermons and lectures --no diary or record of the events of the past 60 years, of his life and of the College. In a conversation not long since I urged upon him the propriety of writing something respecting the history of the College and his own life in connection with it, his views on College government, &c. His answer gave no hope. One pursuit, one object, for fifty years has excluded all others --the making of money and endowing the College. Everything has been subordinate to this and is now. 
I do not pronounce judgement on this course; perhaps it has been for the best. It nevertheless accounts for much of his barrenness as a literary man and author. He is eminently a common.sense man, kind to a fault, good natured, lucky, of good constitution, aged and***** enough to give any man repute. 
Monday March 26, 1855. Dull, damp, snowy, and sleety. Examina.tions(?) commenced today. Fresh. and Sophs. finished--no examiners. Another unpleasant difference with ----"----, whose notions of business and mine do not and never can harmonise. He thinks me obstinate to a degree, and I think him provoking and utterly unreasonable: came away quite dissatisfied and sad. It requires the patience of Job to be so vexed and tried by continual trials of one's conscientious endeavours to do right. V. P. H. encourages [me] to persevere and hope for a favorable change. 
Students and faculty to Mr. Lawrence's room in town to sit for photographs--a wonderful art, a beautiful mode of making and multiplying pictures. 
Tuesday March 27, 1855. Windy, raw, unpleasant. Ice still unmoved in the Mohawk altho the boats have forced a passage thro' on the Hudson. Water in rivers uncommonly low, so that boats on the H. often get aground. 
Examined my two divisions of Junior Class in Chem.--no examiner present. Dr. and Mrs. Nott away to Albany for a day or two and thence to New York, Bristol, Conn. &c. for vacation. 
Talk with Dr. B[ackus], Resident Trustee, on financial and other College matters from whom received sympathy in the perplexities of the Treas. office. Talk also with V. P. H[ickok] from whom ditto. 
Most of students away tonight. Gillespie off to prepare for his tour to Europe. Peissner getting ready to go next week. Atlantic steamship in and confirms the death of Nicholas. 
Wednesday March 28, 1855. Cold, windy, raw, March weather. In office most of the day at the usual routine College closed, and 
students mostly off home. 
Thursday March 29, 1855. Weather ditto. In office --about town &c. 
To Judge P[aige] 's office to raise money for Peissner, who is about to leave for Germany. In Potter's office, where heard three anecdotes, showing the perversion of Scripture to profane purposes. One man said there could be no women in Heaven because John in Revelations said that there was "Silence in Heaven for the space of an hour," which could not have been if the sex was there. 
Another said Dominie Goodale of Amsterdam was an admirer of horses and generally contrived to keep a good one. He purchased a new one and bringing him out asked Squire _____ , his neighbor, his opinion of him. After trotting up and down the road for a while, the Squire says, "Dominie, you never will "see [an end?] of the travail" (travel) of that horse," and be satisfied." 
Dr. Nott back from Albany a few hours, says he is going to New York tonight. 
Friday March 30, 1855. The first fine spring day. To Albany at 9 h.15m. to carry a petition to Canal Commissioners for remuneration for northwest corner of College Park taken by the State. In Secretary of State's office, saw classmate Jasper Smith, a clerk there; also Dr. F. 
B. Hough, another assistant. To latter gave my petition to be by him presented to Sec. [of] State as one of Canal Commissioners. To State Library and saw Librarian A B. Street; through Assembly Chamber where business was driving along under the high-pressure system, to Pease & Stone's and bought envellopes, to Dexter & Nelligais for nitrate of silver; to dinner, after which called on Prof.(?) Gray, Photographist, and saw his specimens: mediocre; to cars and home. Called on Judge Paige for his influence at Schen. Bank for a loan of 300$ for Prof. Peissner, who goes on Ap[ril] 1 for Germany. 
Saturday March 31, 1855. Beautiful weather, warm and genial. Busy day. All forenoon writing business letters. At 12 o'clock to town to raise $300. for Peissner on his note, endorsed by Elipht. Nott. Schen.ectady bank said "No,-worst day in the year is April 1 to borrow money of the banks. Everyone is drawing out deposits, savings and all." Two P. M. down again to the banks. Mohawk also says No till after the 4th of April. Applied to Vandebogart, bookseller, to dis[coun]t the note and succeeded with his brother, the hardware merch[an]t. Back to hill with the money, paid off Peissner, balanced cash, closed the months business, bothered with frequent calls from mere talkers who have no mercy upon one's time. 
Sunday, April 1, 1855. Mild till noon when a cold raw wind sprang up which before night blew a gale from the west. A. M. to Bapt. Church. Rev. Horace Day preached, postponed the baptism of four candidates on account of the rise of water in the Mohawk. 
Hudson Monday, April 2, 1855. Started at 9 o'clock with wife, Willie and Henry to visit bro.-in-law Magoun and wife in Hudson. Wind furious and cold from the N. W. On R. R. coach met classmate Dederick, a Lutheran Mins. at Fort Plain(?) and D. Spraker, grad. of Union in 1822. He spoke of a fracas which rose to a fight between the North[ern] and South[ern] students while he was in Coll. Finally it was terminated by single combat between himself and Rose. Prex., however, interfered and stopped the contest. Met Prof. G. R. Perkins, also, who is now placing the bonds of N. Y. Cen. R. R. in proper order. Spoke [ of] a new invention of his for a more powerful and perfect telescope. The invention consists of making the speculum of mercury, and keeping the proper shape by revolving it upon the top of an axis. Centrifugal motion and gravity, he thinks, will make a perfect paraboloid if the motion can be uniform. Had been encouraged [to] put his idea into practice, hoped yet to do so as soon as his present engagement was closed. Asked how the Observatory progressed at Albany. He answered that the building costing $23,000 was fin.ished but that no instruments were yet purchased and no money remained with which they could be bought. Crossed the River at 10 o'clock, tremendous gale at Albany. 12 1/2 o'clock arrived Hudson, found all well. 
Hudson Tuesday April 3, 1855. Weather cold and windy. A dull dead-and.alive place, like Schenectady, the worst of all places to "loaf' in. Dropped into Wynkoop's bookstore, into Hannah's jeweller's shop, chatted, read, yawned, smoked, went home to dinner, walked about town, home, to bed. The worst of all punishments it is to go without some purpose, to spend time without labor, to kill time with inanity. 
Hudson Wednesday April 4, 1855. A little milder. This day was spent much like the last. Walked about the new Epis. Ch. which is now going up -.plan something like this: 
[SKETCHHERE] 
tower at the N.W. corner, built of rough red sandstone from Conn. with hammered or cut corners. The cost is to be $130,000. Called on Mr. D. D. Demerest, Ref. Dutch Mins. living in Allen Street --affable and kind, a young man; borrowed certain old proceedings of the Gen. Synod Dutch Ch. previous to 1818. To the iron works, the lives [livelihoods?] of H[udson] and a really great curiosity to one not acquainted with such monster establishments. The ore is brought from the borders of Mass., the coal from Penn. and the flux from Becraft's Mt. two miles distant: these two forges or stacks making from 20 to 30 tons pr. day. 
Seventy tons of coal are used pr. day. The blast is hot, being heated by passing thro' iron pipes heated by the hot gases led off from the stacks about 10 ft. from the top. The steam engine is a ponderous low-pressure machine, and is supplied with steam from boilers 45 ft. aloft, which are heated also by the hot gases led off from the stacks. The same fuel and heat, therefore, that melts the ore and makes the iron heats the boilers and the air tubes also without one particle of extra fuel. á 
P. M. to Athens opposite H[udson]. The river here is about half a mile wide. Found the village like its Grecian namesake, desolate, dirty, and forbidding; passed thro' to the heights back of the town and visited the graveyards very prettily situated on ground commanding a view of the Hudson many miles above and below. 
Thursday April 5, 1855. The wintry weather is relenting. Signs of rain, which came down plentifully during the evening. Dull work -.this visiting --never made for a loafer. 
Friday April 6, 1855. Cleared off mild and pleasant by noon. At 1.40 
P. M. started for home where arrived at 4.20 and found all well. Much talk about the tremendous blow on Monday last, almost equal to that of March, 1854. Chimneys, fire walls and roofs were much injured and two houses burnt in Scotia during the gale. 
Union College Saturday, April 7, 1855. Mild, rather cool for the season but much more tolerable than the wintry winds of four days since. Good part of the day answering letters, which have accumulated during absence. 
Sunday April 8, 1855. Mild pleasant day. A.M. to Bapt. Ch. to hear Mr. Day. P.M. to Pres. Ch., Rev. Dr Backus. 
Monday April 9, 1855. Weather mild but not warm enough to dispense with winter covering. Rob[b]ins have just made their appearance. 
Thomas Palmer Esqr. died this morning at 2 o'clock of consumption, which has long confined him to his house and incapacitated him for business. He was a. son of Beriah Palmer of Ballston Spa, studied law after grad. at Un. Coll. and practiced for many years in B[allston]. He became Cashier of the Schenectady Bank some 15 years or more ago, retired from that office and has since practiced law in Schen. 
Received today six bonds of the City of Schen. to Un. Coll. for the Old West College, now sold to the city for a public school. Usual routine at Treas. office. 
Tuesday April 10, 1855. Threatened rain most of the day and did rain in morning and evening. A. M. In office preparing Report of Trustees to Legislature. Two P. M. started for Albany to take it down: 1st to Delevan House to find a graduate in the Assembly, 2. to Congress Hall for ditto, but found the House at dinner, 3d to Secretary of State's Office to see Dr. F. B. Hough, who is employed there upon the Census and other matters. Chatted ten minutes and back to Congress Hall and thence to Assembly Room where found Ambrose Wager, member for Dutchess, delivered the Report; met also Calvin Littlefield, mem. from Jefferson Co.; to State Library and spent half an hour, to Dickson's Hat shop and got hat stretched, to RR Depot and home. In Legislature all is bustle and confusion; at the very close of the session everybodies' bill must be got thro'. Delavan House is to be illuminated tonight in honor of the Temp(erance] Bill. 
Wednesday April 11, 1855. Snow, sleet, and rain in moderate quan.titites, but enough to make it unpleasant. In office all day at usual routine. Mr. Alex. Holland called, from New York and reported the dangerous illness of Mr. Lowber, Dr. N's agent and partner in business. 
Call from Henry Pomeroy, Civ. Eng. grad. of 1843, now living at Fort Wayne, Ind[ian]a; gave frightful accounts of the fever and ague in that region some portions of the year, the marks of which he also bears: sallow, thin, unhealthy-looking. 
Thomas Palmer Esqr. was buri~ed to day at 3 o'clock. 
Thursday April 12, 1855. Cold, raw, north wind. All day in Treas. office. 
Friday April 13, 1855. Weather is relenting, more springlike this 
P.M.All day in Office. 
Saturday April 14, 1855. Rainy in P.M. ,drizzly in A.M. A day quite without unusual incidents, accidents, or gossip noteworthy. Toiling all day at figures and letters, ledgers, day books, and cash accounts. Prof. L. dropped in full of the enormity of Pres. Pierce's Cuban fleet and warlike demonstration, which he characterises as a contemptible foray upon a peaceable neighbor for the sake of catching popularity with the vulgar; wishes this country might get whipped so soundly by England and France that it would be glad to keep quiet and mind our own business for fifty years. We brag forsooth of our prowess because, in the war with Mexico, the miserable half-starved armies of Santa Anna could not make way against the better-trained and better-fed forces of the U. S. Quite otherwise should we find the result of a contest with the armies of France and England. Our navy could not exist for a year, it would be completely annihilated by the navies of the Old World. We need at least ten years to build a respectable naval armament able to compete with that of either of the great European powers, &c&c .. So he went on. 
Sunday April 15, 1855. The first really bright warm day. A.M. To Bapt. Church, Rev. Mr. Day. P.M. to Pres. Ch., Rev. Dr Backus. 
Monday April 16, 1855. Weather ditto. Mother, Father, and John off to Hudson on a visit to bro.-in-law Magoun. In office all day, with the usual routine of business. 
Met Joseph Potter, lawyer, grad. of 1841, who for the last ten years has resided in Whitehall. His appearance seems to confirm cer.tain reports I have heard of him. Married Judge Boies' da[ughter] of Wash[ington] Co., sister of Artemus Boies who grad. at U. C. and now resides in the same co. of which he is surrogate. 
Tuesday April 17, 1855. Fine weather. With V.P. H[ickok] examined the condition of So. College, particularly its external condition. It is in a better state than the North College, which is saying little in its favor. Both buildings, altho having all the materials, and in abundant quantities, for good substantial structures are in a sad state of dilapidation: cracked, bulged and getting worse year by year. The main defect is the foundation which of all things in so lofty and weighty edifices should have been laid deep, broad and of heavy stones. On the contrary the stones are small, crumbly badly bonded and cemented with poor, miserably poor, mortar; the consequence is that after forty years the buildings are fast settling out of shape and can hardly last another forty years. V.P. H[ickok] remarked, "I had rather have the pile in bricks than the buildings." 
Water out again in cistern. 
Wednesday April 18, 1855. Beautiful day with but a few drops of rain in forenoon. Father and Mother and John returned from Hudson at 1 o'clock. Talk with V. P. H[ickok] on matters relating to College, found him at last giving up the old monastic system of College life and advocating the more rational one, investing our funds in apparatus for teaching rather than in bricks and mortar, which add nothing to the efficiency of an institution of learning. With a Library Building now contemplated and a Central Chapel he thinks our buildings should be finished; in this I agree with him and always have felt, altho' finding but few of our faculty coinciding. 
Mr. Willard received word from Dr. N. that he hopes to be home this week, and that his partner and agent, Mr. Lowber, is still dangerously ill. 
Thursday April 19, 1855. Warm day. Called on Mr. Nicholas Van Vranken for the purpose of learning something of the early graduates of the College who were citizens of Schenectady. He graduated in 1807, entered College at 12 yrs., grad. at 16. "When I entered College," he said, "I had [not] read but one book outside of my regular textbooks and that was Robinson Crusoe." His tender age, inexperience and diffidence prevented him from receiving the advantages that usual follow a collegiate education and when he left college he confesses he was only fitted to enter again, with any hopes of profit to himself. He taught eighteen years afterwards in the city and has since been a merchant. 
His picture of the habits of the young men of the city in his day is quite lamentable. Three-quarters of those of his own age and time, he thinks, became dissipated and a total loss and a bane to society. Many died drunkards at an early age. He thinks his only safety against intoxicating drinks lay in a constitutional dislike to them which prevented him from getting a taste for them. His preparatory studies were conducted under Mr. Luther Halsey and his uncle, Mr. Nicholas Van Vranken. The former, he says, was a severe disciplinarian and an advocate of the free use of the rod. The latter became a Dutch Ref. minister afterwards. Mr. H. was the father of several sons who grad. at U. Coll. --Luther H., Jun, AO. Halsey &c. 
Friday April 20, 1855. Fine rain all day. 
Met Rev. Cornelius S. Mead of Herkimer in Vandebogart's book store, from whom learned that Rev. James Murphy D.D. still resides at Herkimer but supplies the Ref. D[utch] Church at Frankfort. His health is not very good. His son, James K., who graduated in U. Coll., 1834, also resides at H[erkimer]. He studied medicine there but never practiced. Falling into bad habits and taking to drink, he has not attained to such a position as his talent would have raised him. He now acts as an Express Agent. 
Rev. Stephen Turtelot lives near Herkimer on a farm which he cultivates. He first studied medicine and practiced as physician at Newport, but becoming religiously inclined left that profession, joined the Methodist church and became a preacher in the same. Latterly he has become insane upon one point and has been silenced by his church. That point is that another advent of Christ may soon be expected to set in order and re-establish his church on earth. On all other points he is sane, attends to his worldly affairs strictly and often preaches for neighboring ministers with affect and acceptance. 
He is a hard student of the Bible. When he takes a subject for study, he immediately goes to bed to ponder upon it and has been known to lay two , three , and four weeks at a time before he gets his subject fully digested in his mind. 
Talked with V. P. H[ickok] two hours this morning about College matters in which time he read -á--"----'s correspondence with him previous to his coming here. His account of the whole matter was both amusing and instructing, characteristic of ----"á---'s way of doing business. á 
Saturday April 21, 1855. Fine, warm weather. Did but little work to.day; vacation ls getting tiresome. Gave directions to Reagles, the College farmer, and "Boas" --walked over the grounds back of the Colleges and could not help asking what was to be the destination of them. As yet we have worked without a plan or an idea of their use and ultimate disposal. 
Remay. who planned the buildings, also laid out the grounds in true French style with broad straight avenues of 80 ft. to 100 ft. in width. No child could have conceived a worse and more inharm[on]ious plan. Here is 250 acres of land mostly covered with trees, uneven and broken, to be cut with city avenues contrary to all good taste and common sense, and yet up to this time no mind has been able to break out of this French prison. Fettered by such an absurdity the "Power[s?] that be" ordered the fences to be made (cheifly expensive stone walls) and the trees to be planted along the various avenues, and for thirty years we have labored and spent thousands to attain what in a few years more will be wholly discarded and undone. 
Even if the plan were a good one, we have lost half our labor and thirty years time, for not a tree which was planted then can now be tolerated (with a few unimportant exceptions). The grand experiment (!!) was tried of substituting the Robinia for our native trees, as an ornamental shade tree, and now after half a lifetime it has proved a disgraceful failure and has to be removed. We have labored therefore thirty to forty years without a plan, or with one which is worse than none, and as a consequence [are] worse off than we were at the beginning. The buildings are not worth the materials put into them, and the grounds are worse off (save immediately around the buildings) than they would be in the state of nature. 
Sunday, April 22, 1855. Fine day. A. M. to Bapt. Ch., Rev. Mr. Day, with John and Henry. Wife at home sick with cold. P. M. At home myself sick with ditto. Read much of the day out of the Memoir of Rev. Oliver Alden Taylor who died a few years since in Manchester Mass. at the age of SOyrs. --a profitable book in more ways than one, showing the power of man over adverse circumstances of poverty, sickness and the indifference of friends, and power also of true religion in the heart, in consecrating all the treasures of learn.ing to the good of his fellow men. On the whole, he was a re.markable man, a good man and a learned scholar, altho' not one of those showy persons who blow their own trumpet. 
Monday, April 23, 1855. Beautiful spring day, clear and bright. In office all forenoon answering letters &c. A moment with Dr. and Mrs. 
N. who returned on Sat. night from New York where they have spent most of the vacation. Saw his photograph by Lawrence --faithful but sober and almost severe, as almost all photographic pictures are apt to be. Does not suit either of them. Called on Dominie J. T. Seelye of 1st. Dutch Ref. Ch. and for a few minutes looked over the Minutes Records of the church, mostly kept in Dutch, found them quite imperfect in many respects, with gaps and losses. The Records previous to 1690 were burnt when Schen. was taken by the Indians, if any were kept previously, which is doubtful. Strange to say no history of the church or city has ever been attempted by anyone, a shame and disgrace to the Dutch. Nor will there be such a history till the end of time if some Yankee does not do it. Mr. Seelye gives en.couragement that he will try to furnish something of the kind. 
Tuesday April 24, 1855. Beautiful day , warm and genial. Usual routine, humdrum life. Whole forenoon lost by one of those kill.business bores: a talker who could neither take a hint, nor show any mercy. 
House cleaning. Heaven deliver me from the infliction! All things in a hub-bub, everybody in everybody's way, whole house cross and fretful, no corner fit to sit down in, no peace and quiet any where. Deliver me from this temptation. 
Note from Judge P[aige] saying he wanted the Treasurer's report for the use of the coming meeting of the Trustees. Says he has found a principal fitted for our public schools in New Haven, Conn. -.now to get him. The Board of Ed. have called him on a salary of $1200. Will be come? Temperance meeting tonight at the Methodist Ch. T. L. Carson addresses the assembly for the purpose of forming a Carson League. 11Continentalers" Military Co[mpany] out today in all their fuss and feathers; two circuses in town, Dan Rice's and Joe Pentland's, and great excitement among the sight-seers. Boys all agog. Call tonight from Dr. Daniel McDougall, blind but not dumb -.far from it! Knows everybody and everybody's business. 
First "frog peeping" this April 24., at 11 o'clock at night and I am off to bed. 
Wednesday April 25, 1855. Fine weather. All day preparing a report of financial and other matters for Judge Paige preparatory to the meeting on Tues. 1st Prox. [?] 
Thursday April 26, 1855. Threatening rain: but a little fell. In office (Treas.) all day, posting books etc. A few students entering. 
Friday April 27, 1855. Furious N.W. wind, cold and disagreeable. All day in Treas. office over-run with calls, calls, calls, questions upon questions, applications for rooms, paying of bills, "all in a snarl" and everybody in everybody's way. The "monastic system" shows itself off with beautiful effect at the opening of a term when the pressure is great and the supply does not equal the demand. Instead of being anxious how we may best arrange the literary banquet for the young men who flock to us for instruction, our whole anxiety is how to stow them away. The faculty all turn chambermaids and fret away their patience in letting out lodgings at $3. a head pr. term! in peeking under dirty cots and behind doors and into dark corners to see that no filth accumulates. Oh! ignoble fate of so much vaunted science and literary pretension, to fall so low as to let cheap lodgings and superintend the bootblack. 
Five P.M. Faculty meeting in Treasury Office. Present E. Nott, President , L P. Hickock Vice-d[itt]o. Professors I.W. Jackson, Tayler, Lewis, John Foster, Jona. Pearson, Tutor Millard. Read the course of study made out which was assented to. After a long discussion about marking absences from church, and keeping account of chapel and recitation marks, adjourned sine die. 
Call from Rev. Abm. D. Gillette of New York who brings his son James T. to College. 
Saturday April 28, 1855. Cooler weather. 
Up at 6 o'clock and attended Chapel at College as "Roll Caller." But few present. Dr. Hickok officiated. Breakfast at 7 o'clock and to Treas. office after going to market. Crowd in office all day making the usual inquiries, paying money &c. A very proper rule now first promulgated has brought most [of] the students back the first day, viz. [that] all who do not appear to claim their rooms on Saturday the 1st day of the term be considered as having forfeited them, and the same will be given to the first applicants. Received nearly $1000 of tuition &c. money today! 
About 20 new entrances, a large proportion of whom are what are called "University Students," i.e. those who enter without examination but who hope to make up deficiencies and and enter some time in full standing. This method of smuggling into College, thus making it a preparatory school as well as a Coll., is getting to be intolerable, a nuisance that ought to be abated. We have two antagonist[ic] powers or influences in the Faculty. One endeavours to "let the bars down," and throw open wide the doors so that an Omnibus and Four can ride thro'; the other strives to keep up some show of strictness, to prevent this laxity and sift the wheat from the chaff. Some very striking cases might be mentioned of the deleterious influences of the former power, if it were "proper." 
Sunday April 29, 1855. Fine rain all day. A. M. to Bapt. Church with James T. Gillette, Henry and John. Rev. Mr. Day preached. Attendance thin as was to be expected from the weather. It was the intention of him to baptise a few persons at the river at noon but the weather prevented. 
It has been often urged as an argument against the religious influence of our College, that we have never had any revivals of religion here and no conversions among the young. This charge may be true to some extent, but not entirely true. In 1820 there was a hopeful awakening in College and about thirty students were reformed. The immediate occasion seems to have been the sudden death of Amos C. Huntington, a member of the Senior Class. This fact is stated in a religious periodical printed in New Haven, Conn. of the above date. Again in 1839, under the preaching of Elder Jacob Knapp, between fifty and sixty young men of College were thought to have become pious, many of whom are now Ministers of the Gospel. I have heard of no other general awakenings altho' single cases of conversion are not unfreq uent. 
It must be confessed, however, that the religious influence of a faculty,, consisting of members from all the leading evangelical sects of the state, is not likely to be so decided and active as when the College is confessedly sectarian. Here one Professor more zealous than the rest would be suspected of proselyting, from which imputation all desire to be free. In a sectarian College there is the pressure of the public opinion of the ruling denomination, also, to urge on the employment of all proper means for religious reformation, and it is considered a reproach for a Congr., Pres., Method., or Baptist College to pass along for years without a revival of religion. A real Union College therefore cannot be looked upon as a favorable nursery of religion and piety, however high it may stand in letters and science. 
Our Institution is likewise not regarded by many as favorable to wholesome discipline and good morals; we are called "Botany Bay." Now, however we may laugh at the nickname, however untrue may be the propriety of its application, there can be no doubt of its influence [in] keeping many from our Coll. A bad report, altho' false and constantly asserted, always has its influence. People do not ask for proof but, while there is a plenty of other institutions of undoubted morals, will choose from among them their Alma Mater. 
I think myself, there is some ground for the charge; our discipline is lax, and young men of notoriously bad morals and dissipated habits are kept here longer than is proper or safe to the rest. It may be so also at other Colleges. I have no means of knowing. Our literary discipline and requirements are still more relaxed, and it becomes a constant subject of anxiety among the stricter Profs. how we shall be able even to keep up a decent fence about the institution. There is an adverse influence against all strictness of examinations and all discrimination in giving degrees. 
Monday April 30, 1855. Dull day, clouds threatening and a little spinkling of rain from time to time. 6 o'clock to prayers on the hill, to recitation room and heard my first rec. in Plane Geometry, Fresh.man Class, which is too large for a profitable mathematical class, betw[een] 30 and 40 present. It should be divided into two parts. 
Seven, to breakfast and to Treas. Office, where the usual routine. Two 
o'clock met my class in Botany which hereafter will recite at 9 o'clock 
A. M. These are my two daily recitations. Besides these, have to lecture occasionally to the Senior Class in Botany. Tomorrow is to be held a meeting of the Trustees for business. Bishop Potter and Judge Campbell came today. Pay-day also but, as the students have paid tolerably well, hope to be able to meet all demands. 
Tuesday May 1, 1855. Very fine warm day. The great feature of the day was the meeting of the Board of Trustees held at the Pres[byterian] Session House. So long has it been talked of and so much has been expected from it that it was to be feared some disappointment might follow. A quorum was present (13 members) and, as Judge Campbell and Hon. B. R. Wood remarked, 11more business was done in the three hours we were together than in all 
the meetings we ever had before." 
Among other things done: Profs. Lewis, Jackson, and Joy were transfered to the "Nott Trust Fund" with salaries of $1,500. each, and 1O scholarships were also endowed by the same fund. The new Library Building was resolved upon and the means devised to carry it out. The other Professors' salaries were raised immediately, $250 ea., and prospectively $500. --mine own being fixed at $1,750 on account of various labors and duties. 
About town collecting money for Bp. Potter. In the evening called upon Mrs. Nott with wife, conversation upon various topics: Gov. Talmadge's book called "The Healing of the Nations," a new "spiritual book." Moon eclipsed tonight totally. Call from Prof. Lewis, complains of his rec. room's being too small for his class. It is a general complaint that the classes are too large for a single instructor and that they ought to be divided. More tutors needed. Shall we get them ? 
Wednesday May 2, 1855. Fine day. Call yesterday P. M. from class mate, Corn[elius] Van Santvoord, Ref. Dutch Mins., Saugerties. He is son-in-law of Rev. Dr. Westbrook of Kingston, and bro. of Geo. V. S. of Troy. His father ls Rev. Staats Van S., D. D., of New Baltimore. He has been settled at S[augerties] 14 to 15 years--a man of respectable parts and fair success in his profession. 
Call of an hour from C. S. Conkling, Pres. Mins., Mt. Pleasant, N.J., grad. of 1836 --a man of good address and considerable polish of manners. Spoke of several rather eminent ministers who fell into habits of intemperance: Dr. Macauley, Dr. Rowan, Dr. Bradford, Hooper Cuming and others. Saw ----"----who speaks hopefully of matters resulting from the Trustees Meeting yesterday, takes the credit of all to himself, which I am willing he should enjoy if it so pleases him. It is doubtless partly true, altho indirectly so. 
Met Judge P[aige] who is also pleased with the success of yesterday's business, is making arrangemnts to borrow money for the new building and successfully, he thinks. V. P. H[ickok] feels ditto. In fine, the faculty generally have raised their spirits SOá. A new tutor to be immediately employed, if to be found, and need enough there is for him, or even for two. New entrances this term 25, a very respectable number for the season, another evidence of a sort of prosperity when numbers flock to the Institution. 
Thursday May 3,1855. Fine day, not very warm. Vegitation starts slowly, more rain needed. Same Jog-Jog duties over each day; useful they may be but often wearisome. Yesterday and today paying salaries which I am enabled to do comfortably thro' the rather prompt payments of term bills. Another little unpleasant chat with -.--"----on prize scholarships which have before caused a difference between us, he desiring Coll. to pay 2/3 of each, i.e. 19$, whilst he paid the bal. of 11$. I dissented from the propriety of the arrangement. ----"----gave in and desired the whole to be charged to his account. I again dissented because his acc't is already heavily against him. Finally he gave a check for the whole and I left, feeling that he was much disobliged and I getting no thanks for my faith.fulness to College. 
So we go, with a continually recurring difference between us in business matters, the one fretted and chaffing, the other pained and wishing himself out of an office which constantly subjects him to such unpleasant interviews. Called with wife on Mrs. (Judge) Paige, her mother Mrs. Mumford, and her sister Mrs. Peck, of Burlington, Vt. An amiable family, kind and intelligent. With Mrs. Paige much talk about plants --a great enthusiast in the study and lover of flowers. 
Friday May 4, 1855. Rather cooler, but not uncomfortable with signs of a storm. Geometry Rec. before breakfast and Botany at 9 o'clock, in which latter study have about twenty-five of all classes. Writing dunning notes to delinquent students; closed office at 5 1/2 o'clock 
P.M.and home to tea. 
In evening, directing circulars to graduates for biographical information. This project is an experiment which only time will á prove. My present opinion is that out of 4000 to [whom] the circular will be sent not 1000 will answer it. It brings no money, nor present profit; and even self-esteem is not a sufficient motive to induce persons to notice so barren a project. It will take ten years of persevering effort and importunity to get returns from the larger number of the alumni. In addition to this personal application for facts, I note also all newspaper items relating to the grad. and, where practi(ca]ble, save all cuttings for a biogr. Scrap Book, also business cards, advertisements, &c&c. 
Saturday May 5, 1855. Fine day, comfortable weather. All day in Treas. office in usual routine. Alex. Holland called. 
Sunday May 6, 1855. Cool, windy. A. M. to Bapt. church, Rev. Mr. Day preached and at noon baptised four persons at the foot of Ferry Street in the Mohawk. P. M. at home indisposed with piles. 
Last evening saw V. P. H(ickok] and asked whether the Res. Trustees were doing anything towards commencing the Library Building; he answered that Judge P(aige] was nego[t]iating for the loan which, when obtained, the Trustees would be called together and plans adopted, contracts made and the work began forthwith. 
In view of all the past labors of myself as Treasurer for four years, the conclusion is forced upon me that the difficulties natu.rally inherent in the office are nothing to those which are laid in [the] way [of] those who should be his helpers and encouragers. I am often ready to exclaim how hard it is sometimes for one to do his duty. Here is nothing really intricate or difficult which a careful and moderately capable man cannot do with ease and comfort, and yet I have lived in constant turmoil and uneasiness. Standing between two opposing powers drawing me both ways, I must serve one or the other; there is no middle path. The troubles therefore outside of the office occasion much more-anxiety to the Treasr. than all within it. When will this end 7 Who knows 7 
Monday May 7, 1855. Cool, cloudy in A. M. Awoke with a cold. Bones ache, head ache, nausea and a general feeling of good-for.nothingness all over. To Rec. in Geom. at 6 o'clock. Breakfast at 7 1/2, to Rec. in Botany at 9 o'clock, after which home and on the bed most of the day nursing my cold. Felt chilly during A. M. and hot in the P. M. Better tonight. 
Tuesday May 8, 1855. Threatened rain in A. M., began to fall plentifully in P. M. and continued. In office all day posting up the business of April &c. Called on Judge P. by request. Informed me he had obtained the promise of a loan of $14,000 for College, of the Savings Bank --the real estate of College to be mortgaged for repayment; desired me to obtain a certificate of value from Christopher Reagles and Gerrit W. Veeder, and a certificate of title founded upon the College Deeds to be made out by myself. The above loan is to be expended thus: $10,000 for a new Library Building, and $4,000 for the Chem. Laboratory. The Library building is to be commenced at once so that it may be occupied next spring. 
A new Tutor arrived today, Dwight Kellogg Bartlett of Poughkeepsie, a grad. of the last class, 1854. He relieves Prof. Newman of two classes in Latin and takes another class in Math. perhaps. Should our number continue to increase, one or two others will be required. Call from Alex. Holland of New York, former Treas. of Coll. He is now Treas. of the Am. Express Co. His mother resides in Schenectady and is about to build a new house on Union Street nearly opposite the Court House. 
Wednesday May 9, 1855. Cold and threatening rain; 'tis said that snow has fallen west and north of us even as near as Saratoga. Called on ----"----to talk of raising money to put up the New Building and the plan of the same, found him indisposed in health, acquiesced readily with "what the gentlemen of town" desire and threw the responsibility upon them. 
Thursday May 10, 1855. Beautiful day. Nearly all day tracing title to lands east of Colleges and south of Troy Road, found most of the deeds so old that the College would hold them by right of possession. In P. M. travelled over them [the grounds] with Reagles (College farmer) who has been on the grounds these forty years, for the purpose of locating the different lots with a view to a rude map of the same. 
Letter from Prof. C. A. Joy who is still in Paris, France, wishes to know how long he is to be kept there and what we wish him to do. Called on----"----with the letter to learn his views of the matter; says, Write to him to buy his chemicals and return; think ----"----is chewing the cud of dissatisfaction. Something evidently gives him a sad look--probably the results of the late meeting of the Trustees. She also sympathises. 'Tis a pity. Can they never yeild an opinion or a measure with a good grace and pleasant countenance? &c&c. V. 
P. H[ickok] advises to send only so much of the $4,000 as will leave quite sufficient [for] fitting up the laboratory here. 
To Hiram Champions to attend a Meeting of Trustees of Bapt. Ch., noquorum.
Friday May 11, 1855. Fine day. After hearing my usual recitations, started for Albany at 9.45 to see W. L. Woollett, arch[itec]t, in relation to our contemplated new Library Building. Found Dr. N. in same train, talked about the building &c., arrived at A[lbany], walked with him to E[rastus] Corning's, where left him. After some delay found Woollett and talked about the following subjects. Which is best, to contract for the building in whole with one man to find materials and labor? Answer: No, it is not your method in Schend'y. Or by parts, i.e. to mason and to builder-carpenter, we finding materials? Yes, because this is more common here in the country. What is the price of building bricks here in Albany? 22/ to 24/ pr. M [thousand]. 
All materials found, what is the cost of laying bricks pr. M.? Ans: about 20/ (2.50). How much more does it cost to build now than in 1852? Ans. from 10 to 15 pr. ct. 
What will it cost to arch a cellar with bricks? Ans: Not over a $1000 [more], but I have a plan for iron beams and concrete which will cost nearly 1/3 less. I will give you the estimate at another time 
If arched, should the arches be built with the foundation? Ans: Yes. How many furnaces will be required to heat the building? Ans: perhaps only 2. Will 4 x12 floor timbers 23 ft. long require supports beneath? Ans: It will not do to go over about 22 ft., lest they sag. Will it answer to have a tower attached to this building for a bell? Ans: I doubt if it would harmonize. 
What would a tower cost? Ans: About $800. 
Will it do to have strait stairs to the second floor? Ans: It is always best to have landings in long flights to ease those ascending; it is too fatiguing to ascend 19 ft. without one at least. 
Dinner at Remonds. Saw Henry Gardner who informed me he had many corrections and additions for my catalogue to be sent over soon. To Sprague & Company's and to Gray's Booksellers. To Comptroller's Office to see about taxes on certain lots. To cars and home. Dr. N. in same train. 
9 P.M. to H. Champion's to attend a meeting of Trustees of the Bapt. Ch. All present: Hiram Champion, William W. Weller, Demetrius M. Chadsey, Peter Vedder, Jonathan Pearson. Home and to bed. 
Saturday May 12, 1855. Fine warm day. 
Saw Mrs. [Nott] this morning, talked on the subject of the new building for which she desires a tower for the bell; quoted Miss G[illesple{?] and UpJohn of New York in its favor, spoke slightingly of Woollett's opinion &c. V. P. H[ickok] is as decidely opposed to the tower on many accounts, also Judge P. and the other Res. Trust. Whether this discussion about the building ls going to stop its progress, can't say. ----"----went to Albany this P.M. to preach to.morrow for Dr. Ray Palmer. Next week he promises to visit New York. 
Sunday May 13, 1855 Pleasant day. A. M. and P. M. to Pres. Church, where heard two good sermons from Rev. Dr. Hickok, Vice Pres. of College. 
Monday May 14, 1855. In morning, threatening rain --a little fell about nine, cleared off pleasant before noon. After recitations, with 
L. K. Bass took level to see how deep the cellar of the new building might be made. 
P. M. to [ County?] Clerk's office to search the records for titles of College to its lands east of the buildings. The business of this kind seems to have been but loosely done in old times. Several deeds to lots known to have been bought by College are not to be found, neither are they on record. Others are on record but not in the Treas. Off[ice]. Many are in the office but neither acknowledged nor recorded. 
I doubt if any corporation in the country ever suffered more by inefficient agents and slipshod methods of transacting business than Un. Coll. Her records of all kinds show a most slovenly, ignorant, careless set of servants. Money has been squandered by thousands on foolish experiments; and the one aim seems to have been to get rid of her money as quick as possible. The end and aim of the managers seem to have been speculating in lands, securities (which were often no securities) and lotteries. Money-making! Money-making! for forty-odd years. Had the same energy and toil been spent upon making the College a first-rate literary institution instead of a great broker shop, had lotteries never been asked for and the sympathies and liberality of the public been called upon to support the College, it would now have been infinitely better off. 
The greatest curse that ever was called down upon U. C. was the infliction upon her of the lotteries. The money they obtained has been ****** to her and to every man concerned. The literary institutions of the State were made the pretence by which the partners and managers enriched themselves at the expense of the people. The lotteries would have been ended years sooner but for the cry that their profits all went to endow the Colleges, a hypocritical lie of which all concerned were conscious. For every dollar put into the coffers of the Lit. Inst. the partners put 10 into their own pockets and came out of the speculation enormously rich. It is all the Devil's money and, however well intended, if he does not get it all back again, it will only be because he is defrauded of his own. 
Tuesday May 15, 1855. The warmest day of the season. A little rain 
in the early morning. All day in office. 
Half past 6 P.M. botanizing with a few members of the class along "Simon's Kill", i.e. the brook which runs thro' College grounds. This is so called from Simon Groot who once owned lands upon it, now included in the College Park west of the Terrace. Flowers come forward slowly. Last night went up the "Vale" south of the College, where found, among other plants, Trillium erectum, Thalictrum Anemonoides, Hepatica, Triloba, Mitella, Diphylla &c. 
Tonight found Saxifraga Pennsylvania, Asonia botryapium, Comandra fragaroides, Thalictrum dioicum, Orica palustris &c. 
Wednesday May 16, 1855. At noon commenced a fine rain which continued into the night. Father Harvey arrived this P.M. from Cincinnati --well. 
Usual routine in Treas. office and Rec. Room. 
Thursday May 17, 1855~ Clear fine day but cool. Sent $103.50 to S. L Magoun to pay on debt of money borrowed and int[erest]. Wrote dunning letters in Treas. office to delinquent mortgagors. Six 1 / 2 o'clock botanizing with my class down on Troy Rail Road. Found Vaccinium Pennsylvanicum, Uvalaria sessilifolia, Ranunculus repens, Viola rostrata, Sauguinaria Canadensis &c. 
No movement as yet towards the new Library Building. The plan is undecided upon, and not till next Monday can the Res. Trust. be got together to fix upon it. This unpardonable delay is doubtless due to the indifference of one party and the desire on the part of the others to conciliate him and give no pretence for dissatisfaction. As it ls, the best part of the season is passing and nothing is done. 
Friday May 18, 1855. Most delightful day. After Recitations, at 10 o'clock walked over the College land south of the Colleges with V. P. 
H. for the purpose of showing the boundaries and extent of the same. Talked of various matters relating to finances &c. of College. Home at 11 o'clock, and at work in Treas. office. P. M. Saw ___ [?], talked about the new building, desires a tower for bell whilst the other Res. Trust. object to it. Four o'clock, Mrs. Nott showed me a new photograph of the Dr. which pleases all his friends by its faithfulness and expression. Taken by Lawrence of New York. Mrs. John H. Edmonds of Utica arrived to night on a visit to Mrs. N. 
Saturday May 19, 1855. Cool, cloudy. P.M. threatens rain which fell sprinklingly toward night. 
Alone in Treas. Office during the day; Mr. Willard, Register, off into the country trout-fishing. Busy a good part of the day drawing up the $14,000 mortgage which College is to give to the Schen. Savings Bank for money borrowed for new Library Building and for fitting up the Laboratory. 
First heard this morning of the death of John C. Spencer, which happened on Thursday night, May 17. Biogr. sketches appear in the various Albany newspapers; the event is also noticed by the Bar of that city and by the courts. The funeral takes place tomorrow at 4 o'clock from St Peter's Ch., Albany, of which he was a member. It is understood from himself and from his friends that the commence.ment of his unfortunate, long, and fatal sickness commenced from the close of the long and arduous investigation held by the Senate Committee in 1853 on the financial affairs of Union College and its President. 
In that trial he acted as the voluntary counsel of Dr. Nott and made superhuman efforts to clear up and strip off the web which had been woven around his venerable friend and instructor, threatening his destruction. His overtasked system was quite broken down by his exertions and from that time he has not seen a well day. The Doctors called it neuralgia; I see some of the newspapers call his ailment consumption. I saw him in January or December last; he was quite thin and weakened and expressed doubts as to his recovery. He dated his sickness from his last great effort for Dr. N. and spoke with interest of the College and its success. 
Saw Miss Aug. Crafts and Mrs. Edmonds at Dr. N's this evening. 
Sabbath May 20, 1855. Fine day. A.M. to Baptist Ch., Rev. H. Day preached. These fine days and the attractiveness of the College grounds entice many of the young people of the city to visit them. Indeed the crowds and the hilarity and sometimes boisterousness of them make our part of the city anything but pleasant for those who desire a quiet and orderly sabbath. What can be the remedy? A high fence around the College Park and a Sunday police. 
Monday May 21, 1855. Cool, some fears of a frost tonight. Commenced clearing the ground for our new building to be erected at the east end of the South Colonnade. Still the plan is not decided upon; saw all the Resident Trustees and got a meeting appointed for 7 1/2 o'clock this evening. 
7 1/2 o'clock met at Judge Paige's study: Dr. Nott, Judge Paige, Mr. Cochrane, Dr. Hickok and self for the purpose of making arrange.ments] for the erection of the building. After much talk about a fire.proof lower floor, about contracts and materials, resolutions were passed to raise $10,000 by a mortgage, to authorise the Treasurer to procure materials, to make contracts, and whatever else was neces.sary to carry forward and complete the work. 
Then came the talk about the plan. Shall there be stairs within the building, or shall they be without and in a tower? Dr. N. was decidedly in favor of the tower at the west end; the rest rather favored the dispensing with a tower, 1st on account of the looks, 2d. on acc't. of the expense which will be about $800, and because also another of like dimensions must be made at the North College. These will require two bells and two bell-ringers forever. Whereas it is thought the bell at some future time should be placed upon the central building when built. 
In midst of the discussion, Dr. N., fatigued and indisposed, retired, and the rest continued the discussion and retained their opinions. Adjourned at 9 3/ 4 o'clock. Walked up with Dr. Hickok. 
Tuesday May 22, 1855. Cool day. Frost last night in some parts. Another tonight if not too cloudy. 
After recitation and breakfast, called on ----"----and Mrs {Nott] came in. Conversation as before on the new building, tower or no tower! &c. and of a character to give me the blues all day and an utter distaste for work or anything else. Let what was said pass into oblivion and be no more remembered. ----"----addressed a note to ________ [?] and another to V.P.H. to say that I desired to have nothing more to do with the plan. 
2 o'clock went to Albany to talk with Woollett, architect, about iron floor and the roof timbers. Gained no great satisfaction and home again at 6.40 P.M. 
8. P.M. to Rec. Room No. S to an examination, home at 9. Off to bed at 11 o'clock. 
Wednesday May 23, 1855. Fine pleasant day. Among other work in office made out drawings and bill of cut stone for "Geological Hall," preparatory to going to Amsterdam tomorrow. 
In evening at examination for Freshman Scholarships. Four candidates: A. D. Price, Hazeltine, Taylor and Silvernail. Examiners, Profs. Hickok, Lewis, Foster, Newman and Tutors Millard and Bartlett with self a short time. 
Thursday May 24, 1855. Warm day. After rec. in Geom., breakfast, and rec. in Botany, started at 9 .SO m. for Amsterdam, where arrived at 10.30 A.M. Enquired for Peter Fritscher, stone-cutter, for the purpose of contracting for the stove work on Geol. Hall. Not in town but three or four [miles] out, at the "Schelpentown" quarries; hired a horse and waggon to visit them and took in Geo. Hanford of Schen., Ins[urance] Agent, who desired to visit that region for the purpose of collecting ins[ urance money, and by so doing lost 3 or 4 hours of time, much to my annoyance. No Peter Fritscher at "Schelpentown," went to Amsterdam another way, waited till 2 o'clock for him. Hanford drove off to Hagaman's Mills and I "footed it" to A[msterdam], hot and tired, hungry and _______ . At {Amsterdam] found F., just on his way out again to S[chelpentown], talked about stones etc, and found his prices 20 to 25 pr. ct. higher than in 1852 when he supplied them for "Phil. Hall"; promised to call on me tomorrow in Schenectady. Left at 5.20 P. M. for home, glad to escape [Hagaman?] 
Friday May 25, 1855. Pleasant, rain needed, smoky. Nearly all day busied one way and another about the Geol. Hall. on which broke ground yesterday for the cellar. With Tutor Millard placed the stakes for the site. Peter Fritcher called today to give his final estimate of prices of stone works. I go tomorrow to "Tribes Hill" to consult other stone-cutter[s]. 
8 o'clock P.M. at a faculty meeting at Dr. Hickok's study. Present: Profs. Hickok, Jackson, Lewis, Newman, Foster, Pearson, and Tutors Millard, Bartlett. First discussed the question, "Who shall be admitted Prize Scholars in the "Freshman Class"? Two long evenings the examinations have been carried on with the following five candidates.: Colman, J. U. Price, Taylor, Silvernail, Hazeltine, and the first two have been voted worthy of the honor. Discussed several other questions relating to University Students: examinations for conditions and deficiencies; the old practice of remitting one study on account of absence, teaching &c., and resolved as follows: That all examinations of Univ. Students for full standing shall be had on all studies up to the class in which the student desires to enter, as strictly as if the student then first came to College and also to the satisfaction of the examiners; that the student who leaves before examination and has been absent for a term shall pass a satis.factory examination on all the studies which he has omitted; that no student should pass from one class to another till all his deficiencies of the previous year shall have been made up and he has passed his examination; that on the Catalogue the Univ. students shall be placed by themselves and not with those who are in full standing. 
Doubts were expressed by several of the propriety of having what are called "Univ. Students," saying that they were perhaps as much an evil as good to a College. 
Saturday May 26, 1855. Cold and windy. After recitation in Geometry and breakfast, started at 9.45 for "Tribes Hill" to confer with the stone-cutters there as to our bill of cut stones for Geol. Hall. Arrived there at 10 o'clock --saw the men, left one bill with them for their prices which are to be sent down the beginning of next week. Having a little time to spare, walked across the pretty suspension wire bridge which here spans the Mohawk from bank to bank without an intervening pier, distance about 475 feet. Under the influence of the strong wind blowing down the river, the bridge rises and falls like the long beautiful swell of the ocean after a storm. At one o'clock took down train for Schen., where arrived at 2 o'clock. On hill, in office and about Coll. till S 1/2 o'clock and home to bed. 
Sunday May 27, 1855. Windy till near night, cold and raw. Rain and warm sunshine much needed for vegitation. A.M. to Baptist Ch., Rev. Mr.Day. 
Monday May 28. 1855. Comfortable weather. Dry and uncommonly smoky. The fear is commonly expressed that crops in this section will be past recovery soon, if rain does not fall abundantly. The earth has not been saturated since the drouth of last summer and even now, so soon after the usually expected abundant rains of spring, our wells are unprecedently low, the best possible criterion of a drouth. 
Another conversation with ----"----on business matters, un.unpleasant beyond measure, improper to be written and better forgotten. 
Botanising with a few of my class, along "Simon's Kill," but the cold dry spring seems to stop all early growth. 
Tuesday May 29, 1855. Warm, air full of smoke from burning woods. I never saw the atmosphere so thick with it. After recita.tions, started on Rail for Amsterdam, to conclude contract with Peter Fritscher for cut stone work for New Geol. Hall. Arrived at 10.30 , took horse and waggon and rode three miles to the "Schelpentown" 
quarries, saw F., made the contract and back to R. R. Depot at 12'30; 
1.20 started for home, where arrived at 2 o'clock. 
Wednesday May 30. 1855. Warm day--no rain yet. Saw ----"----in regard to the plan of the new building, He proposed the following: 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
(A) Entrance to the second story of the new building thro' the Colonnade, a part of rise to be overcome by stairs in the Colonnade and the rest in the building itself. At his suggestion, consulted the Trustees in town on the same and they acquiesced. V. P.H. ditto. It is to be hoped, therefore, that this settles the matter finally. 
Mother Harvey and Sarah arrived tonight from Cincinnati, Ohio, --the latter quite out of health as she has been all winter. 
Received a copy of ____ [?]'s memorial to the Resident Trustees on the subject of the mortgaging certain lands belonging to College so ordered by the Trustees, May 1st inst. 
Thursday May 31, 1855. Strong warm wind from south all day, threatening rain but none came. All day drawing plans for Geol. Hall for stone work etc. according to the last arrangement. Dr. N. to Albany. Lectured to senior class on Bot[any], Geography. In Treas. office till 9 o'clock P. M. posting accounts. 
Friday June 1, 1855. Strong south wind threatening rain. 9.45. A. M. to Albany to [meet?] Woollett concerning Geol. Hall. Sat down with him and calculated the cost of an iron floor for same and made it to be about $2,000 --too high a figure for our money. Back again at 
3.30 P.M. 
Saturday June 2, 1855. Rain more or less all day --most welcome and timely for suffering vegitation. New plan this morning for Geol. Hall !! thus, 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
suggested by V. P. H. and assented to by Dr. N.; will this stand till Monday morning!! All day making out plans according to the new idea for stone mason and timber-man. 
Sunday June 3, 1855. Rain all day and into the night, at intervals. A. M. to Baptist ch., Rev. Mr. Day. 
Monday June 4, 1855. In morning, rain. Cleared up toward 9 o'clock, cool. Work all day on plans of Geological Hall. New question again to.day about the same: shall the lower floor be fire-proof or not? Iron costs too much, therefore _______ says let it be built upon brick arches but here again a serious objection comes up; the cellar can not be carried low enough on account of a large brick sewer running across the site of it. Then raise the floor; that cannot be done because that would interfere with the outside plan, which is fixed by Remay. So here we are, again adrift, plans all thrown up, and nobody knowing what to do. 
Like most of what has been done about U. C. this grand plan for the buildings is a failure and a humbug. It carries but one idea --a great exterior show --there never was any thought as to how the internal arrangements would adapt themselves to the outside shell. There was no plan for anything but lodging rooms for the students and a house for the president, together with a great circular building for a chapel capable of holding at least 2000 persons! No recitation and lecture rooms. No halls for apparatus. No chemical laboratory. No appartments for a Museum for Nat. Hist. No Library, unless it could be tucked away in the great central peper box. The building erected in 1852 for Phil. and Chem. departments was originally intended for a professors' or Pres[iden]t's House, and to change it from its original purpose and keep only the shell was a no small difficulty; ditto of the one we are now erecting. Given the outer walls, opening and height, length and breadth, to make just what you want of such a structure? here is the rub. 
Tuesday June 5, 1855. Cool enough for fire and overcoat in the morning. V. P. H., on consulting Res. Trust., falls into the plan of arching first floor of Geol. Hall. Quere: Can it be done with so small a height? 
á 2 o'clock P.M. to Albany to consult architect on this subject. Found Woollett engaged with the Commissioners to whom is assigned the building of the State Geol. Hall. for which he is the architect, but promised to come over to Sch en. tomorrow, and pronounce his opinion upon the plan. To Wands & Warren, to converse about furnaces and how they should be put up: flues and ventil[l]ators. Going and coming, conversed with Dr. Backus: 1st about the results of the May meeting of Trustees and [to] _________'slate memorial addressed to the committee appointed to carry out certain transfers of real estate to him; 2d about ventillation and warming in which he takes much interest. Saw Abm. Wemple, freight asst. for Central R Road Albany, who showed me the storehouses &c&c. --an immense business and constantly increasing. Home at 6.40, tea and to an examination of students in Geom., Conics and Chemistry. 
Wednesday June 6, 1855. Fine pleasant day, cool morning. 
At 3 o'clock P.M. Mr. Woollett, architect, appeared to advise respecting Geol. Hall. Examined the foundation and, finding the earth partly natural soil and partly made-earth, advised to dig out a trench two feet deep in the natural clay and fill it with rammed sand to make the whole alike, i.e. made-soil, thus the whole will settle alike under the load of walls. Also, decided that the cellar could be arched and took the rough plans made by myself to arrange the piers and arches. á 
Sarah Harvey --wife's half sister --still suffering severely from what the Doctor's call neuralgia. 
Botanising this evening with a few of the class, in woods on Troy Road behind Van Voasts Mill, where the flowers grow luxuriantly. 
Thursday June 7, 1855. Rained during the night, and poured all day, a most timely storm for crops. In office and about town on various businesses of College &c. 
Evening 7 1/2 at No. 7. new Phil. Hall to attend examination of Gregory Hesford, A. P. Clarke, University students for full standing, of whom the latter passed. Examining Committee: Profs. Jackson, Newman, Foster, Pearson. Home and to bed --tired. 
Friday June 8, 1855. Clear, cool, and windy. Busy with Mortgage and Bond from U. Coll to Schen. Savings Bank for $14,000, money to be borrowed for Geol. Hall and Chem. Laboratory; finished, copied, executed and delivered them to Judge Paige, one of the Directors of the Bank --also a search for title and a certificate for Morts. and judgements against the property. Negociated also for a bond and mortgage of 1,500 with D. M. Chadsey, which is to be delivered to.morrow and paid for out of moneys paid in out of the State fund. 
Saturday June 9,1855. Cool nights and mornings, fire comfortable. Heavy rain all day. Busy all day running about making inquiries for materials for Geol. Hall. 
Sunday June 10,1855. Rain most of the day at intervals. To Bapt Ch. in AM. Rev. Mr. Day preached Monday June 11, 1855. Clear and cool. 9.45 o'clock to Albany to see Woollett, architect, and get plans for arching for cellar of Geol. Hall. To Babcock & Van Vechten's tile factory for draining tiles for same. Home at 4. o'clock. 
Tuesday June 12, 1855. Cool, fires yet. The late rains revive the hopes of all for a plenteous crop, and the late exorbitant prices are receding. We now only need heat to start vegitation. To Albany at 2 o'clock to consult Woollett about the arching of cellar of Geol. Hall and back at 4 o'clock. To Bapt. Ch. where the Hudson River Assoc. North is in session. Heard Dr. Welch make one of his feeling little speeches. He is now an old shattered man but retaining much of his ancient fire and pathos. In evening heard Mr. Hervey of Hudson preach. 
Wednesday June 13, 1855. Cool yet, fires comfortable. Father Harvey came from Boston, also a Miss Smith (Mary) and Miss Lucy Fuller, friends of wife's: from Albany, Rev. Mr. Hervey to tea. To Bapt. Ch. in evening to hear Rev. Mr. Hill of Albany preach. The Assoc. adjourned this P.M. after a harmonious and pleasant session of two days. 
Thursday June 14, 1855. Cool yet. ditto. Hunting up materials for Geol. Hall, making contracts, contriving ways and means for work &c. Heavy loss of dry goods from fire, smoke, and water in store of John Ohler, last night about 11 o'clock. Loss estimated from $15,000 to $20,000. Insurance $13,000. 
Friday June 15, 1855. Comfortable day, save a strong wind accompanied with smoke and dust from the West. All day "puttering" about the new building, getting the stone layers started with their work on foundation. Tonight in office till nine o'clock, bring up books for May. Mr. Willard, Register of College, having made up his mind to leave his place, looking round for his successor. 
Saturday June 16, 1855. Warm day. Started with son Henry at 10 o'clock for Amsterdam to see Fritcher, the stone mason, about "imposts" for piers of Geol. Hall. Took horse and waggon at 11 o'clock for "Schelpentown" quarries, transacted the business and back at 1 o'clock when found the railroad blocked at the station by the careless and culpable running together of two freight trains. After waiting till 3 before the track was cleared, started for home, arrived at 4., to office, paid off workmen and home, to supper or rather dinner, at 6. An attempt was made this evening to get up an Anti-Maine.Law meeting. Drums and fife, drunken men and rowdies, much noise, yelling and disturbance all the evening to the great an.noyance of peaceful citizens. If this ls a fair specimen of such opposition, it will doubtless add no weight to the rum party. As the dreaded 4th of July approaches, however, the baser sort of opposers grow desperate and attempt to override the law and its abettors. Heaven prosper the right! 
Sunday June 17, 1855. Fine pleasant day, not too warm for comfort. 
A.M.to Bapt. Ch., Rev. H. Day. P.M. to Pres. Ch. Rev. Mr. Seelye of the Dutch preached. 
To prevent noisy boys and girls from town from making a bear garden of the College Park, employed Police Constable Kittle to order off all unruly persons this P, M, and by so doing had comparative quiet. 
Monday June 18, 1855. Pleasant day. Wife and Mother Harvey started this morning for N. Y. with Sarah H. for the purpose of consulting some physician relative to her disease. Usual routine in office. 
Tuesday June 19, 1855. Cool, cloudy. Wind south with rain at 4 o'clock P. M. and after, thro' the night. Call of two hours this A.M. from Robt. Proudflt Jr., lawyer in N.Y. City; looked over the list of his class in College, gave residences, professions &c. of his classmates. How varied the history of any 80 young men after leaving College! Some ascend; others descend to the gutter and wallow in infamy and disgrace. 
Jas. H. Mairs, a classmate of mine, he tells me, died in Tex~_s, He studied Theology at Newburgh and was licensed to preach, but never became a pastor. Married a worthy girl there and deserted her; she became insane from his cruel desertion and is now in the lnsane asylum at Utica, incurable. He wandered off to Texas and engaged in various hazardous speculations and finally became partner with Gardner 1n the famous fraudul[e]nt Mexican claim, so thoroughly exposed at Washington, and lately died in Texas. Gardner committed suicide in prison. 
McDougal, a college acquaintance, always had the credit of ruining Mairs by his evil example and advice. 
Sneeden was a native of Newburgh, where Proudflt resided for a long time, and became dissipated, [a] confirmed sot. Many a time; R[obert] says, he gave S. two shillings to keep him from starving. He enlisted as a private in Stevenson's California Regiment and shortly 
after died in Cal. 
Forsyth, my classmate, was another Newburger whom P[roudfit] knew well --the son of a worthy and highly respectable man. F. started life with the best prospects, married a Miss Hasbrouck of Kingston,became Judge of the County Court and was a prominent politician running as the Whig candidate for Sec. of State in 184--. He became extravagant, luxurious in his habits, a gambler, and finally to keep up his expensive habits forged paper upon his father-in-law and friends to a very large amount and sailed for Europe. Where he now is no one knows. 
Belknap is a purser in the U.S. Navy, a fast liver. 
Halstead of Newburgh was a promising young lawyer but fell into habits of intemperance from which, after repeated trials to reform, he d[e]spaired of ever freeing himself and closed his life by suicide. 
Jansen, a classmate of mine, is a poor dissipated pettifoger in his native town, of neither force nor ambition, but contented to vegitate ih ignominious obscurity. After cohabitating with a girl for a season, he married her. á 
Wednesday June 20, 1855. Fine day. V. P. Hickok away to Auburn. Masons are well started on foundation of Geol. Hall, after much haggling and shuffling about the plan .of it. Received a letter some days since from Pendleton of Class 1854, in which he reflects upon the discipline of Un. College, regretting that so much laxity is permitted both in morals and scholarship. Doubtless it is all deserved and much more. It is not all slander that we are called "Botany Bay." The public do not esteem us so sound as other colleges and many of our best graduates and friends are pained with what they know of our want of strictness. 
Thursday June 21, 1855. Weather d[itt]o. Wife and Mo[ther] Harvey returned from N. Y. where Sarah remains sick. Saw ----"----today, plan for Geol. Hall up again and flies back and insists upon his old plan which he gave V. P. H. to understand he would yeild for another. What a chang[e]able man! fickle as water, unstable as a child! Despotic as a tyrant! --no mind, no will, no plan, no anything but his own tolerated. 
Friday June 22, 1855. At 12 o'clock [N.] began to rain and poured all the P.M. till night, a beautiful copious storm. Saw Res. Trustee C[ochrane]. in town, much dissatisfied with the Records of Trustees, thinks them badly, unfaithfully kept, much matter introduced which the Trustees never ordered and has no business there. 
Saturday June 23, 1855. Cleared off during the day. Usual routine at Treas. office, writing letters &c. To P. Potter's office to settle up attorney's acc'n'ts. for last 4 years, &c&c. 
Sunday June 24. 1855. Threatened a storm all the A.M. with now and then a sprinkle. Wind south. P. M. rain again abundantly. To Bapt. Ch., Rev. Mr. Day in A.M. No church in P.M. Read to the boys &c. 
Monday June 25, 1855. Cloudy, but a mere trifle of rain. Warm and "muggy," but not uncomfortable. Letter from C. A. Joy dated "Gottingen," Germany, in which he announces that he is busy look.ing up apparatus and chemicals for our laboratory &c. Gillespie writes to Dr. Nott and wants $1000. to buy some famous French models and contrivances to illustrate "Higher Geometry." G. writes in great spirits and with a full appreciation of his distinguished reception by literary men! 
About 1 o'clock this morning commenced the anniversary cele.bration of Dr. N's birthday --by tooting of tin horns, drumming on tin-pans, yelling, breaking glass and what not infernal racket. From 6 to 10 of the "baser sort" were engaged in the rude and insulting ex.hibition. This boisterous celebration has been kept up ever since the year when Amass McCoy graduated. He and his classmates made a rational and respectful celebration of the event by calling on the Pres. and Lady, singing, reading Shakespeare, conversation &c .. Next yr. and thereafter, a few rude fellows desecrated the occasion by "hornings" and other unearthly noises. 
All ask why is not affair broken up? All the college deprecate the insult to the venerable Pres. --yet he will not punish the offence because it has never been his way to punish for any fault. We literally and truly never inflict any penalties for any offence beyond a few pen[n]ies' fines for absences from the regular exercises of the Coll. I have known a notorious theif to steal his way all thro' coll. and at the end get his diploma with the best and ***** moral men of his class, and that too when the culprit was fully known and acknowledged his offence. I have known others to commit burglary in Coll. to the am't. of at least $100. in value and yet not so much as a restitution of the stolen property was acquired, altho the burglars were fully known. They graduated with their class or will this year.!!!! 
What then is done when offences happen as they often do? [Dr. N.] talks to the offenders, threatens, imposes heavy fines and then takes them off; writes to parents; "makes believe" he will punish; fires blank cartridges, never ball d[itt]o. No evil-disposed young man in Coll. but knows ----"----'s weakness and besetting sin --his morbid kindness of heart to "scallawags." The worse the student behaves, the more ----"----hugs and loves him and the more favors he grants him. All this is the famous (?) moral suasion and parental (?) government of Union College which ----"----thinks in his heart saves (??) so many young men, saves them from what? from moral turpitude and corruption of others; more innocent? --by no means -.but saves them from being sent strait from College as incorrigible, and unfit associa=tes of moral and studiously inclined young men. But here comes in the "knock down argument" of ----"----, the "clincher," which must stop all cavil. "We never had a rebellion in Union College." !!! 

Oh! lame and impotent conclusion. Was there ever a good government, restraining and punishing the unruly and wicked, that was not rebelled against? Do rebellions in colleges happen always because of bad laws and bad government or because bad young men are restive under wholesome restraints[?]. Again, because our College never had a rebellion, is it therefore morally freer from the taint of bad moral and unwholesome examples? or is it today more prosperous, making better scholars, and standing fairer with community than our sister colleges? Yale and Harvard have had notoriously many rebellions in times past against their discipline, of cliques and individuals, and yet public opin[ion] assigns to them the cheif seats of learning in this country and they are crowded with scholars. Rebellion, then, against lawful and wholesome restraints must always be expected and detracts nothing from the government, unless that government weakly yeilds to the rebels, and relaxes their discipline into license for wickedness. There can be no rebellion where there is no law or where, being law, it is never enforced by pains and penalties. "Moral suasion" is always in the mouths of such weak governors, and a boastful self-gratulatlon deceives them with the idea of the superiority of their discipline. 
Tuesday June 26, 1855. Fine day, threatening showers but none came. Saw V. P.H., Judge Paige, C. B. Cochrane, and Hon Bradford R. Wood, all of whom spoke of the plans of the New Building and gave a decided opinion that the original was the best, thus: 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
instead of which we now have the following 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
----"----, notwithstanding he assented to the last by the request of V. 
P. H., still clings to the following and desires to go back to it at all hazards. 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
As no vote has been taken by the Res. Trustees on either and only their seperate opinions given, the Treas'r, who acts as their agent, is thrown into most perplexing doubts as to duty in the case. On the one handáhe desires to please ----"----in all cases if practicable; on the other he dislikes to go contrary to the decided opinion of the large majority of Res. Trustees and others. When will these perplexities cease! 
Wednesday June 27, 1855. Warm summer day. Last evening James Gillette, student, in making a foot-race with Newberry, by the mere tension of the abdominal muscles and the glutei broke off the process of the pelvis to which they are attached on the right hip. Dr. Van Ingen was sent for and pronounced it a decided case of fracture and that it would be necessary to keep his leg up for at least a fortnight to relax the muscles, and let the fragment back to its place. Went to Mrs. Sherwood's, his boarding-house, obtained a room for him, moved him to it, assisted to construct his bed, and at 1 o'clock retired to my own. The Dr. says this is an entirely new case in surgery, such a fracture from such a cause, merely by the muscles there, never having been heard of before. Hearing that Mr. Gillette (Rev. A. D. G. of N.Y.), his fa[ther], was attending the examination of Mrs. Willard's school in Troy, telegraphed for him to come over. At 4 o'clock Mrs. G. came, he having left for N.Y. early in the morning. She sleeps at my house. 
Dunning delinquent debtors for interest on b[onds] and m[ort.gages]. A brilliant, warm, moonshiny night. Fa[ther H. goes to N. Y. to.night to see Sarah, who continues very sick there. 
Thursday June 28, 1855. Warm, fine growing time. In a conversa.tion with----"----today, he finally yeilded to the plan for Geol. Hall mentioned two days since as the choice of the Res. Trustees. Thus 
[DRAWINGHERE] 

This takes us back to one of the original plans long since submitted. One great advantage of this is that rooms "a" and "b" can be better lighted than at the West End of the building. The expence of making the requisite change in the foundation is perhaps $20. only. 
Friday June 29, 1855. Very warm day, the first in the season. Thermometer 94 á in shade and night warm also. This morning at 7 1/2 a shocking accident occurred at the Railway Station. Mrs. Peter Banker, aged about 60, while carelessly walking upon the tracks, was run down by the tender of an engine which was backing along. One leg was cut clean off above the knee and thrown several feet from her body and an arm was shockingly crushed. The poor creature lingered till one o'clock and died, quite sensible and calm to the last. She made a will and exonerated the engine driver from all blame, attributing the accident entirely to her own carelessness. 
. Father Harvey returned this morning from N. Y. with young Fred. Hosford. Sarah is still there very sick. 
Saturday June 30, 1855. The last day of the College fiscal year, on which account a busy day; called on various delinquents for interest due on bonds; busy with accounts, settling up with the men employed, and paying them off. 
----"----showed me a letter from Gillespie in which he asks for $1000 to purchase more apparatus for the Engineering Department and seemed inclined to grant it if only he knew where the money was to come from. á 
Sunday July 1, 1855. Yesterday and today hot, scorching hot; thermometer 94 á in shade. 
To Presbyterian Ch., Dr Backus. The Dr. announced a trlal of his ventilating apparatus of the Meeting House, in this fashion. In the ceiling above are two large circular "ceiling ventilators" leading into the garret; the windows and doors are closed and the air is admitted to the house thro' the furnaces in the cellar as the hot air is admitted in winter. The experiment was partially successful, perhaps quite so, the temperature of the air inside being 4 á lower than without --so the sexton said. The Dr. says the trial is not a fair one as the apparatus is is still imperfect. 
Called this morning to see Mrs. Gillette, who is troubled about the physician of hisher?] son, Dr. James Van Ingen. The trouble on this wise: yesterday morning Van I. took offence at her having given 

her son an injection, saying she had taken the case out of his hands, and otherwise showing dissatisfaction, he left and has not been nigh the patient since. She asked my advise, which was to wait a reasonable time and then send for another physician, which she could do with perfect propriety inasmuch as this morning she sent for him and he refused to come. This evening therefore I went for Dr. Vedder who, on examining the pelvis, coincided with Van I. that a small bit of bone was pulled off, but considered it a very simple and easy case to manage. 
Monday July 2, 1855. Cooler. Am informed that yesterday and to.day it rained all over the state west of us and to with 20 miles of us; none here. This accounts for the sudden lowering of the temperature. Wonderful rejoicing from all parts of the country by reason of the abundant and seasonable rains and the cheering prospect of a plentiful harvest. Saw Judge P., who has fever and ague, and about leaving for Clifton Water Cure House to get cured. He was much gratified at the change of plan of the Geol. Hall. Dr. N. to New York with Moses, his colored man. . 
As Mr. Willard is to leave Sch en. Aug. 1. _________ has apppointed Mr. George Gilbert in his place. He commenced his duties today in the Office. Catalogues of Students just published by college ----"--á-[?] and Mr. W., the Editors. Great dissatisfaction among the students on account of the various marks of demerit and deficiencies attached to their names --an absurd, disgraceful practice which ought only once to be seen to be forever after condemned: it is however one of ----"----'s expedients for governing and inciting the young men!!! Having no general principles and rules of action, no laws written or oral, except what he makes for each particular case as it occurs, College is governed or rather ungoverned by a series of experiments, expedients, subterfuges, equivocations and "clrcumben.dibuses." What ls law for one ls not for another; what is law today was not law yesterday; as nothing ls written or certainly known, of course, change is everywhere possible and on all occasions. 
As to the Catalogues the boys say they wont buy them and threaten to get up an indignation meeting and publish another edition. Says one, "I am ashamed to send it away." Said a graduate to me, "Why do you prefix those adominable symbols to your students names? Why dont you publish a respectable Catalogue as other Colleges do? I am ashamed to show your Catalogue and always avoid it when possible". Last year V. P. H. and myself got ----"----to leave most of the offensive marks off and thought the thing was fixed for the future, but this year it ls worse than ever. 

Tuesday July 3, 1855. Cool and delightful weather. Vegitation ls now fresh and charming. Dr. N. back from N.Y. 
Wednesday July 4, 1855. Raining in torrents till 10 o'clock, with occasional showers during the day much to the discomfort of the boys, who find it difficult to keep their powder dry and their patriot.ism up to the boiling point. The usual bell-ringing and cannon-firing at sunrise. To Geom. recitation at 6 1/2 A.M. as usual, the only recitation held in college. In office all day: letter writing, posting &c. Call from Rev. Mr. Fish, Bapt. Mins. at Newark, N.J., who desires a biog. sketch of Dr. Nott for a work which he calls "Masterpieces of Pulpit Eloquence." Gave him No. 9., Vol 11, of the "Parthenon," which contains a short article to the point, also introduced him to the Dr. The usual ceremonies: firing, marching, drinking, &c. Mr. George Gilbert orator of the day at the Dutch Ch. 
At 4. P.M. the corner stone of the 2d. Dutch Ch. was laid, corner of Liberty and Jay Streets. Evening at 8 1/2 oclock with son Henry to the river to see the fireworks at foot of Ferry Street. The rockets &c. were set off from a scow in the middle of the river. Badly managed. Long talk again today with----"----who desires me to send Gillespie $600 to $1000 as Treasurer, for apparatus. Declined. "Why?" "Because I have no authority." "I give you authority." "That is not sufficient. My ByeLaws forbid it." "But I will be responsible. " "Will you pay the amount?" "No. It's for College, not myself." "'How then shall I transgress the Trustees' rules with propriety?" "You have a right to disobey rules if you can make good any mistakes in your transactions." "I dont see the matter so. You teach me a dangerous doctrine which, if generally acted upon, would destroy all responsibility confidence in Agents. I will consider the matter and let you know tomorrow." "You need not consult the gentlemen in town; if you do, I dont want you to send the money." "It is not my desire or intention to do so: two of them at least are out of town and cannot be consulted." "I am told you had no authority to mortgage the parcels of College land you did for the "Geol Hall." "You were told wrong then. At a meeting of the Resident Trust. at which you was present, the resolution specifying the lots was presented and the motion put by yourself; no one dissented, not even yourself." "I don't remember that any lots were specified." "I have the minutes of the meeting in Judge P.'s handwriting and will show them to you." 
Thursday July 5, 1855. Fine cool day. Usual routine of business in Tr. Office, posting books etc. preparatory to making final report to 

Trustees. Wrote off some resolutions from Bk. of Minutes of Trustees for [ Dr. N.] to fortify certain statements made to him yesterday: also others to Mrs. [Nott] and for the like purpose, occasioned by a conversation had with her today. 
Friday July 6, 1855. Weather d[itt]o, a little rain at night threatening a storm tomorrow. Received a written request from ----"----this 
P.M. to send Prof. Gillespie $650 thro' Brown Bros. & Co. for the purchase of certain apparatus, and this notwithstanding I had in conversation and in writing stated my inability to do so without the sanction of the Finance Committee. What is to be done with so incorrigible, persevering [an] old man! After deliberation and consultation with V. P.H. called on ----"----in the evening, travelled over much the same ground so often disq1ssed before. 
The gist of the whole difference in controversy between us lies here. I am Treasurer of the Bd. of Trustees, subject to their orders, guided by their resolutions, restricted in my doings by their laws, which stand upon the Book of Minutes; the Finance Com. is my Council to solve doubts and in certain cases to direct and decide. Being the executive officer of the Board, he is subject to no other person or persons. When therefore ----"----says to the Treasurer, "Do this or that: pay this or that bill" he [i.e. the Treasurer] has first to look at his guide, the Bye-Laws of the Bd. and if the order be inconsistent with their tenor and spirit he must, if a conscientious, upright, officer say "No, it cannot be done without the sanction of the Fin. Com. or the Bd. in full session." 
Acting upon this plain, common sense view of the case I am continually coming in collision with ----"----who says, 11I will be responsible to the Bd. for whatever you do according to my orders. They wont find fault with you. Send the $650 to Gillespie and say I told you so to do, if asked." 
I. Can you bear my sins or offences against law? If I transgress a known prohibition, can you step between me and my principal and say, "Here, punish me and leave him guiltless?" 
He. "Why, not if the fault be one of moral turpitude. 
I. "This is a case in point. The turpitude, it is true, is not so heinous as in thefts and robbery; still the disregard of plain, written law in matters of finance carries a certain moral stain with it than cannot be imputed to another." 
He. "It is very ridiculous, P., for you to set up your will in such a trifling matter as this as tho' you knew better than older and more experienced men." 
I. "I do no such a thing. I only abide by the laws, I hide myself 
1779
I v-I behind them, I desire no will in the matter. Get two of the Fin. Com. besides yourself to sanction your request, and I will willingly and readily do your bidding, no matter what my private opinion may be." He. "I will do no such a thing; if the College dont want the apparatus, why I'm not going to force it upon them, by going about and asking Trustees if they wont take it." 
I. "Do you mean to pay for it yourself?" 
He. "No! It aint for me, it's for College. P., I've no patience with such little pitiful 'dickering' as you exhibit, running to this gentleman and that for permission to do a thing which I know just as much about and a great deal more than they. Where would College have been 30 yrs. ago if I had done so?" 
I. "I have no disposition to pass upon your past conduct in relation to financial matters. This, however, you must be aware of, that altho occasionally promptness of action and the decision and unity of a single mind may be best,, especially in great money.making projects, still as a general rule it is best to follow certain well known rules of business and not swerve from them. In making money, sometimes much must be risked, to make more or to save what you have. Union College or its cheif officer was once largely interested to make money. As it is now made, she is cheifly concerned how to~ it and lose nothing. To do the latter, strict rules of business are necessary and they cannot be too rigidly followed. The making of money and the keeping of it are too quite different things. If these rules are bad, why dont you get them amend[ed)? The fault if any is in them, not in me." 
He. "The rules are good enough. I suppose they are proper. When the Bd. passed them, they asked me if I liked them and I said I dont care. Yes. I suppose they are all right." 
I. "I am astonished then above measure, that having passed and approved these Bye Laws you should now endeavour to make me break them. You are teaching me a lesson, or trying to, that is certainly contrary to good tuition." 
He. "Oh, these rules are good, I suppose, in the long run and ought to be obeyed; perhaps they are necessary, but then you need'nt be so strict with me !!' 
I. ''I do not wish to say anything offensive, but I do think and feel that you have no more right to direct the Treas. of College than you have to direct the Treas. of the State of N. Y. --I mean so far as I can find any written law on the subject. It is true, practice has been contrary. You once had plenary power given by the Trustees but, having resigned that, you are now to me no more than any other Trustee, having no seperate and isolated authority." 

He. "Where would College have been if I had acted on your little "tuppeny" policy and stopped to run to this Trustee and that for authority and see if the laws would allow me to act?" 
I. "I cant say, I have not a sufficient knowledge of the case to judge. However that may have been once, now there is no such emergency, there is now no necessity to act contrary to law. Would you not think meanly of me if I should, in spite of consiencious scruples, break the laws merely because you bid me ? I know I should lower myself in your estimation." 
He. "Oh, I would not have you violate your conscience, but you ought not to have so crochety a conscience. Come now, you are so great a stickler for law, where did you find any law for stopping John Nott's salary?" 
I. "The law of common sense and common practice. Where there is no equivalent, there can be no pay. Mr. N. has been off duty nearly two years and rendered the College no service. Moreover, I took counsel of the Resident Trustees and acted accordingly." 
He. "What business had you to go to the Res. Trust.? Why did 'nt you come to me? 
I. "1st. Because they are made my advisers. 2d. You was not in town for more than a month after the transaction." 
He. "You did very wrong, then, P.; you had no business to stop a professors salary. 11 
I. 11If Reagles should cease to to work for College, would you have me continue his pay?" 
He. "R. is not an appointee of the Trustees. He is only appointed by yourself." 
I. "Neither is Mr. N. an appointee of the Trustees. He is only called a professor by courtesy." 
He. "No matter, P. ,you acted very badly in that business altho' I have no doubt honestly. Why dont you stop Dr. Proudfits salary? He does no labor. 
I. "Because he is pensioned by Resolution Qf the Trustees." 
He. "Why then dont you stop Gillespie's salary, since he has gone to Europe and is absent from his duties." 
I. "He had leave of absence." 
He. "No, he hadn't. The Trustees never did any thing about [him]." ' 
I. I beg your pardon, sir. I have his leave of absence and order to pay his salary in advance, signed by yourself and all the other Res. Trustees. I will show it to you." 
He. "John N. had leave of absence, too: I gave him leave of absence!!" 

I. (said nothing) 
He. "Well, P., there is no use of our talking; we can't agree and never shall; you are the most obstinate man I ever saw." 
I. "We never shall agree in the conduct of business matters. We differ in this respect. You act without rules; I act according to law." 
He. "Well, I suppose that is true. I never could be trammelled with your rules and laws: true, we differ in first principles. I dont know but what I am getting old. Old men never know when their usefulness is at an end, and sometimes hold on too long. Perhaps I am getting in my dotage --but if I am not, then I know you are wrong in your hardheadedness. 
I. (said nothing) &c&c&c&c&c. for an hour and half. 
Saturday July 7, 1855. Fine, with signs of rain, towards night. To Sedgwick, keeper of Temperance House, to contract for Com.mencement dinner, found the Ball Room which we had occupied formerly for such occasions divided up into bedrooms, and that there is no dining room in S[chenectady] capable of seating above 75 persons. Home and reported progress to Dr. N. and V. P. Hickok for their opinion. The latter says let the dinner go, it's nothing but a humbug at best; we shall at least save the expense. Dr. N. thinks it best to have it if some room can be had. 
Busy balancing books preparatory to making final report to the Trustees. 
Sunday July 8, 1855. Cool, pleasant day. To Pres. Ch. A.M. and P.M. Heard Rev. Dr. Smalley of Troy, late of Worcester, Mass. --a popular speaker. In Bpt. Ch., a Mr. Smith, licentiate, preached. Mr. Day at Albany. 
Monday July 9, 1855. Furious rain all last night, clear this morning. Busy all day and evening, save when interrupted, muddling my head over accounts, balances, profit and loss, &c. 
Tuesday July 10, 1855. Moderately warm, pleasant. Busy ditto. 
Wednesday July 11, 1855. Rain again last night, clear and cool today. Busy ditto. To old "West College" to see if a room for Com. dinner can be found there. Everything is a "muss," getting it fitted up for the schools of the city; no encouragement there, therefore. Introduced to Mr. Cook the Principal who explained his plans. Called on Dr. Backus about the Circular to Colleges in relation to Hon. Degrees. Heard to.

day that C. B. Cochrane Esqr. had left S[chenectady] for Albany to 
become partner with M. T. Reynolds in the law business. Sorry to 
hear it. Might spare many worse citizens. 
Miss Cynthia Sheldon, sister of Mrs. Nott, in town again for a 
day on her way from the funeral of Mrs. Chubbuck, Hamilton, N. Y. 
Thursday July 12, 1855. Fine weather -moderately warm. Busy on yearly report of Treasurer which finished tonight, on Geological Hall contracts for timber stones &c. The cellar is finished to the water.table, which is already going on [down?]. Next week comes the arching above the cellar. 
Friday July 13, 1855. Weather d[itt]o. A fine shower in the afternoon. Sent Treasurer's Report to the printer. Father Harvey arrived [at] 3 from the West. 5 P. M. Faculty meeting in Treasury Office at which were present: Pres. Nott, V. P. Hickok. Profs. Lewis, Jackson, New.man, Pearson; Tutors Millard, Bartlett. 
1st. Read and approved the Order for Examination. 2d. Read over the names of the Senior Class and recommended certain persons to the Trustees for degrees. 3d. Read over the several classes and hastily discussed the demerits of certain members of the same. Adjourned. 
Saturday July 14, 1855. Charming day. Notes of encouragement come from all parts that the crops never looked better. 9.45 A. M. started for Amsterdam to see about cut stones for Geol. Hall., arrived at 10.30, found Fritcher, the stone-cutter, and a load of stones just ready to start by Rail Road. Saw them off, and loafed about till 1.20 
P.M.before a down [train] came along, home at 2 o'clock. To Printing Office, read proof of Treasurer's Report and to the Hill, paid off workmen and home to dinner and tea. 
Sunday July 15, 1855. Weather fine, but moderately warm. A. M. to Baptist Church, Rev. Mr Day. P. M. to Pres. Church where heard Rev. Mr. Macky, Missionary at Corisco, Africa, lately returned. His voice is weak and his manner without much life or animation. 
Read Prof. Lewis' "Six Days of Creation," so far as I can judge a learned work and calculated to make a stir among theologians and naturalists. With great apparent fairness, he arrives at much the same result respecting the Six days of Creation that many geologists do --he by a literal exposition of the Mosaic account, they by comparison of the facts brought to light by the examination of the Earth's Crust. He bases his argument solely upon the Sacred Scriptures and very plausibly shows that the Six days are not solar days but indefinite periods. 

Monday July 16, 1855. Warm day with wind south. Prof. Newman's second son was born last night. Seniors were examined this morning between 9 and 12 o'clock and time to spare!! I trust such expedition can hardly be met with elsewhere. The only Examiner present is Rev. Mr. Hawley, Methodist clergyman of Saratoga Springs. Fa[ther] Harvey left this morning for Brooklyn to see Sarah, who still lies sick there. 
Tuesday July 17, 1855. One of the warm days of the season. Thermometer at 94 á and upwards. 
From 9 o'clock A. M. thro' the day Examinations. Examiners present: Prof. Lockwood Hoyt of Genessee College; Rev. Mr. Hawley (Method.) of Saratoga Springs; Rev. John Woodbridge of the same place, accompanied by his father, the Rev.___ Woodbridge, and Rev. David Tully of Princetown. Preparation of Treas. Report, and superintendence of the Geol. Hall, together with all the various calls, questions, and annoyances incident to the close of the collegiate term and year fill up the hours of each day entirely. My days of study and literary leisure seem at an end. Work, and not reading, seems to be demanded. Sent off Treas. yearly statement to the Trustees. 
Wed[nesday] July 18, 1855. Hot day. Thermometer 94 á and over. No Commencement dinner this year; reason, no room in town large enough to accommodate those who usually partake of it. It is now proposed to have it prepared hereafter in the large room to be constructed in the Geological Hall which we are building on the Hill. The "Centerings" for the groined arches over the Cellar of Geol. Hall are now going up and by Friday the masons will begin the arches. 
Thursday July 19, 1855. Weather melting hot, 94 á to 98 á. Beauti.ful shower in the evening which cooled the air. Examinations closed this morning, unmitigated humbugs! So every one feels and pronounces. Then why not improve them and make them real bonaflde examinations? Sure enough! Who has the power to move in the matter? The Professors have not; their authority is nil, and the power that is has no disposition to have them better, but rather to "let the bars down" altogether. No subject gives more trouble, grum.bling, and dissatisfaction with the Profs. and yet they feel that their hands are tied and powerless for good. 

Friday July 20, 1855. Rainy and cloudy all day. Cool enough for thick clothes. 9.45 o'clock started for Troy where obtained the College dividend at Farmers Bank. Thence to Albany by Rail, to Clerk's Office and home at 1 o'clock by the Emigrant Train. 
Prof. F[oster]highly indignant at the looseness of examinations and want of all system and thoroughness in them, solemnly vows that he will have nothing whatever to do with them hereafter if a change is not brought about. Visit from Dr. Franklin B. Hough of Albany last night, left this morning. He is engaged upon the State Census under the Secretary of State. H[ough] has a good mind, acute and highly retentive. His studies for some years have been cheifly historical. No man will dig out the marrow of a heap of old books or manuscripts sooner or more thoroughly than he. The Secretary's office therefore is just his proper field of labor. His leisure hours are occupied cheifly in copying old papers relating to favorite subjects and gathering materials for future projects. Spoke in particular of a large number of papers he has found relating to the early history of Massachusets, Delaware, New Jersey &c.; of his late visit to the St. Regis Indians whose census he took and to Quebec to inspect the Census papers of Canada, &c&c. H. 's rough exterior and almost rude manners detract much from his influence and advancement in a social point of view. There are a few men whom all the intercourse with the world they may have will not polish. He is one of those unfortunate individuals. Like a "singed cat," he is better than he looks. 
Saturday July 21, 1855. Rainy thro' the day, cold and fall-like. Woolen cloths and a little fire comfortable. Writing letters, answer.ing questions, settling bills with students &c., the usual daily routine of the Treas. Office. Conversation with V. P. H. on matters of College and especially about a code of laws for the same which ----"----is "cooking up" under the title of an "Abstract of the Laws," a misnomer inasmuch as they are nearly all new, never having received the sanction of the Trustees. Their spirit is such as to make the President autocrat with full power over faculty and students, term bills, and instruction. He gathers up all the reins into his single hand and nobody is to say "Aye, yes, or no." Intimated that such mighty power in one man's hands would work injury to the College, destroy the Independence and responsibility of the faculty and discourage all interest and goodwill in the prosperity of the College. In evening called a moment on Judge Paige who proposes to have a Finance Comittee meeting on Tuesday morning to prepare business for the Trustees at their yearly meeting at 2 o'clock. 

Sunday July 22, 1855. Cool, pleasant, comfortable day. A. M. 
Attended Bapt. Church, Rev. Mr. Day. 
Evening at 7 1/2 o'clock listened to a highly finished discourse by Rev. Hugh Smith Carpenter of Portland, Me. on the occasion of the anniversary of the Theological Society of College. He is a young man, highly imaginative, happy in his mode of delivery, and fertile in figures and comparisons. On the whole it was an uncommon discourse and was listened to by a crowded audience for an hour and a half without weariness. Finished Dr. Lewis' "Six Days of Creation," a book full of nice scholarship, and deep thought. It would seem wonderfully to confirm the discoveries of geologists, altho' professedly claiming nothing but a fair and strict interpretation of the Bible without regard to science of any kin 
Monday July 23, 1855. Drizzling rain at times during the day with 
N.E.wind, cool and comfortable. Called upon Judge P. at his request and left "Memoranda" of such financial Matters as he requires to make a report of the Finance Committee to the Trustees tomorrow in connection with the Treasurer's Report: desired me to call again between 5 and 6 o'clock P. M., which I did. Read portions of his report, asked for information on certain points, and asked me to call again tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock. 
Alex[ande]r Bradford L. L.D. of New York speaks tonight before the Senate of Union; did not attend on account of illness of wife. Have fears as to the result of to-morrow's meeting of the Trustees, lest the heart burning of ----"----against certain of the Bd. on account of their action [ot] last May 1 on the land question, should result in some unpleasant results both to himself and others. With characteristic perseverance ----" ----is determined to carry his projects either by "hook or by crook"; and if at all, it is most likely to be by the latter --a method by which he is somewhat known to most persons. On the other hand there are others of the Bd. equally determined to "head off" any unpalatable measures of his, and substitute the authority of the Board in place. 
----11----'s leading aim seems long to have been to absorb all authority, all power, all action, into himself, gathering up the reins one after the other into his hands till at last the prerogatives of all departments in College were centered in him. The faculty are nobodies, puppets, only moving when and how he says. The Trustees might be dispensed with so far as any independant action ls concerned; till lately they have only met an hour or so in the year, merely to say "yes" or "no" as they were required. That his opinion of both Trustees and Faculty is a contemptible one, is no mere conjecture, for his actions and, what is more, his words show it. 

Tuesday July 24, 1855. Hard rain till noon, wind south and weather 
hot and "muggy." 
To Judge Paige's office at 9 o'clock to hear his report to the Trustees and make any corrections in the figures which might be needed. Back to "Hill,' where found Messrs. James Brown and R. M. Blatchford, Auditing Committee, waiting to audit Treasurer's accounts. Compared all the payments with the vouchers and found the same correct. Compared the Securities with the Bond Book and ditto. Compared the Treasurer's Statements (printed) with the Ledger and found the same correct. Examined the Balance Sheet and approved the same. The committee expressed themselves highly satisfied, gave a certificate to that effect and at 2 o'clock dismissed me to dinner. 
2 o'clock P. M. Trustees meet in the Pres. Session Room, where they kept in session till 7 1/2 oclock with what result have not heard. After a fatiguing and exciting days work, too tired to attend the evening exercises by Prof. Nairue and Mr. Thurber at Pres. Ch. 
At 3 o'clock attended a meeting of the Phi Beta Kappa, where proposed for Election: Prof. McCoy, Rev. Saml. H. Hall of Syracuse, and Franklin B. Hough M.D. of Albany; elected. 
Suggestions made today by the Auditing Committee. 1. That the Stock of Farmers' Bank, Troy, now held by Philander Wells, Cashier, as trustee of College should come back into the hands of the Treasurer. 2. R. W. Lowber, who holds $1,100 belonging to Coll. ,should be compelled to pay this am't forthwith. 3. That one of his bonds of $40,000 does draw interest from Dec. 1. 185 3 instead of from Dec. 11854, as he and ---"----have all along tried to persuade the Treasr. and that he must pay it. 4. That the large losses by students on term bills amounting to $1,277 in 1854 should no longer be permitted, unbusiness-llke and improper, and Mr. Blatchford at two different times in presence of Mr. Brown urged me to send a preamble and resolution to the Board this P. M. that they might correct the growing evil. That his request might be carried out, [he] dropped a note to Judge Paige asking him to confer with Mr. B[rown] on the subject and they together concoct something to the purpose. 
Last night wife taken with chills accompanied by something nearly resembling dysentery; today some better but weak. A few old graduates about today, and but few --a pity that it is so; with so many sons around, U. Coll. should have her 
l)o7
I 
anniversaries honored by a crowd of willing worshippers whose good 
will and affection would be her best safety and hope for the future. 
We have not the true N. E. spirit for doing such things here. Our 
Commencement dinners have never been anything but a cold snatch 
and run, without intellectual entertainments. We have made no 
attempts to create a kindly social feeling towards us, to render the 
Old Halls dear by happy associations. On the contrary, everything 
has been "good enough," all occasions for conciliating binding the 
hearts of our graduates to us have been slight and as little as 
possible made of them. 
Why should our Alumni travel 100 miles to Commencement and get nothing but a cold bite, a colder shake of the hand and a few four-minute trashy speeches? They will never do it. If, instead of putting all our energies upon lotteries and money-making to the neglect of [the] our literary reputation, we had pursued the latter, U. 
C. would to-day have been half a century in advance of her present position. The greatest curse she has ever met with (no matter how much cash she may sometime receive) was the Lottery curse. It has clung to us and blasted our prospects for years. No man connected with the vile gambling project but was injured in reputation and morals by it. In regard to the Lottery money attained and promised to College, many say "It is the Devil's money and he will certainly have it". 
Wednesday July 25, 1855. Cloudy in the morning. Clear and hot in the P.M. The Commencement came off as usual at the Pres. Ch. with all the same accompaniments of crowded house, heat, and sweat, but as no one else could remain at the office I took up my position there. 
The absorbing question, however, with the Trustees was the how and wherefore of deeding to Dr. Nott the College domain outside of the site upon which the present buildings stand. It was argued, I am told, with great zeal pro and con for some hours yesterday. Some acrimony, I am told, was mingled in the debate. The principal speakers were Chancellor Walworth, Judge Paige, Judge Harris, and Bp. Potter. The lawyers finally agreed that the transfer could not legally be made without going to the Legislature and so they decided to ask that body for a special law for this purpose. 
This last conclusion is undoubtedly unwise and impolitic. After all the trouble which the College has received from Legislative Committees, it is a wonder now that our Trustees have not learned to keep clear of them. At eleven o'clock had a call from Bp. Potter who, just warm from debate and perhaps stirred a little by his opponents' retorts, vented a trifle of censure upon me, calling to remembrance that I had acted harshly and wrongfully towards----"----, that I had refused to obey the resolution of the Trustees passed last year, paying certain printing bills and advances to Prof. Lewis and Jackson, that I had in my proceedings, altho' approved by the Res. Trustees, incurred the displeasure of all the Trustees out[side] Schenectady. 

Having but a moment to spare I simply put in a disclaimer to his censure --a simple denial to his main charge and so the affair dropped, for [the] present. In the P. M. Judge Campbell called upon the same errand altho' in a milder and much more pleasant humor. The purport of his remarks were that----"----had done so much for Coll. and was going to do so much more, and money was going to be so plenty, and $100,000 was going to be raised to put up buildings &c&c&c&c&c., ad lib., --therefore you must let ----"----do as he pleases in money matters. 
I. But, Judge, I have simply obeyed your rules passed in 1852. 
He. Oh, but you must relax them somewhat in reference to ---."----, give him the benefit of a doubt &c&c&. in the same strain. The upshot, then, of the whole matter is here. The Trustees make rules for the Treasurer in their official capacity which, as individuals, they advise him to break --to disregard and nuilify. What a lesson to weak human nature! To be honest, virtuous, or pious is always accounted hard with all the encouragement and helps which friends can afford. For treasurers, cashiers, and other persons in places of trust to study the interest of their corporation to administer the finances strictly and honestly, all our late experience has taught viz. to be difficult with all the rules and guards which ingenuity can invent. What then shall be thought of the wisdom of a systematic and persevering endeavour of Trustees to make their Treasurer violate the very rules they have themselves enacted! Oh! the inconsistency of human nature ! 
Thursday July 26, 1855. Hot --a great shower in the evening. It is [raining] all the time now. 
Among the knowing ones there are various whisperings and conferences as to the result of the late Trustee meeting. ----" ---.claims a great victory over all the malign influences which have so long surrounded him in the Board. This evening he sent for me and after some talk and arrangements about the first payments to Officers on the Trust Fund he came to the absorbing matter of the last few days. 
He. I told you [that you] and Paige would stand alone when the Trustees met. You see they entirely dissented from your narrow policy. 

I. I rejoice, Sir, that your great trouble is settled to your liking. If I stand alone with Judge P., I am in good company. I am sorry, however, to be obliged to think less of some members of the Board, who wear two faces. In their official capacity they make laws for the Treasurer, which as individuals they tell him to disregard, but Sir the result of the late meeting and the cautions of certain gentlemen (kindly intended) have no influence upon my conduct. If the Bd. enact laws which every individual of them ask me to disregard or to relax, it would have not the least influence upon my determination. 
áá I am their servant in their official capacity. I will obey them in all things consistent with the College Charter and the laws of the State of 
N.Y. To these they are subject. If the carrying out of these laws give[s] you trouble, blame not me but the laws and get them altered or yourself excepted from their influence. I will as soon obey you as the Trustees, provided they can and do delegate their powers to you. 
He. I dont want the laws altered, they are good enough. I approved of them when brought before the Board, but then there must be exceptions from all laws and so long as you can say, "The President told me to do so and so, and you think I am responsible for all I order you to do, you are safe in doing what I want you to do." 
I. You cannot be responsible for my infractions of law, and tho' I knew the Board would not censure me for breaking known rules, I would still not be guilty of such a misdemeanor only because I did not fear a punishment would follow &c&c&c. 
Frid.ay July 27, 1855. Rain as usual day after day; already the reports come in of grain sprouting in the field and dismal for.bodings of injured crops. How little can we know of, or control the influences which go to make up our climate! Last year at this time we prayed for rain and got none, the earth was parched and all vegitation was seared; this season just the contrary. Rain after rain deluges the earth and crops run to stalk, overburdened with luxuriance of growth: grain ripens and sprouts again in the field; the grass lies and rots upon the ground. The whole season is changed from its predecessor. 
Had a talk with Judge P. who deprecates much that was said and done at the meeting of the Board. He thinks much that was done bears the mark more of under[?] pressure and influence than calm, sober and independent thought and action. The question at issue is effectually buried in the call upon the Legislature, which if ever carried out may quite likely eventuate in another Legislative Commission and the opening of old wounds. After all, what ls the profit to Union College? If it be merely to gratify a foolish whim of one of the Board, is not all this bickering and bad blood bought at too dear a rate? 

Saturday July 28, 1855. To Amsterdam at 7 A. M. to look after cut stones, and back at 9 1/2. P. M. with V. P. H. to Crane's twine factory to call on Jona. Crane who has been there on a visit; found he had left for N.Y. The object of this visit was to introduce V. P. H. to him preparatory to a visit which the former contemplates making to Hunter Point to learn something there of College interests in the Crane & Ely contract. 
Sunday July 29 1855. Fine day. Hay-making day. At night, rain 
again. A. M. to Bapt. ch., Rev. Mr. Day. P. M. Presb. ch., Rev. John 
Backus of Baltimore, bro. of J. T. Backus of Schen. 
Monday July 30, 1855. Cloudy and finally some rain. Conversation with Prof. J[ackson], who feels annoyed with a conversation had with Judge C[ochrane], a Trustee, to the effect that the faculty had by their clamourness and talking with the Trustees in town put back many of ----11----'s great projects, interfered with plans that they could not understand and generally injured the College; getting warm with his subject says he is more powerful than Trustees and Faculty put together!!" What a speech. 
On reflection he thought it best to apologize [for] his remarks. 
Tuesday July 31, 1855. Fair day. Wind north, rejoicing the harvesters. Bade good-bye last night to L. H. Willard, who goes to N. 
Y.as clerk in the Am. Express Co. 
Wednesday August 1, 1855. Pay day for the Professors. The Nott Trust Fund pays its first dollar today. The incumbents are three: Professors 1. Prof. Tayler Lewis, Greek. 2. I. W. Jackson, Math. 3. 
C.A.Joy, Anal. Chem.; and ten scholarships of 30$ ea. pr. year. They all are obliged to sign a pledge: the Profs. to maintain and countenance the past and present way of governing students and to abstain from the use of spirit[u]ous liquors and the students in addition to the above to use no tobacco in any form. 
I.W.J.signed the pledge and took his $375. 
Thursday August 2, 1855. Prof. L[ewis] called today to examine the pledge-book. He makes no objection to the pledge to temperance but objects decide[d]ly to the other, to countenance and maintain our present mode of government, in which he does not believe. 

L. I cant do it. I dont believe in a government without laws, or a government with laws which are a dead letter and without penalties. I have spoken and written against such a chaotic method or rather mode, and I cant stultify myself now by pledging myself to what I do not believe in. I believe the parental government is good, but ours is not parental; the wise parent uses the rod, we never. The old-fashioned system is the best, where a wholesome set of laws fortified with pains and penalties arrested the froward and vicious, who, if not reformed after proper trial and judicious treatment, was cut off as a withered and decayed branch and not suffered to remain to the injury of the virtuous. I must wait till ----"----gets home. 
Friday August 3, 1855. No money in the Treasury, a little in the Bank, but as all the Treasurer's Checks must be countersigned by two of the Finance Comm. and not one is in town, there it must remain. 
Saturday August 4, 1855. To replenish the now empty treasury went to Albany yesterday for the signatures of two Fin. Com. [mem.ber s], found only one, Mr. B. R. Wood. Long conversation with him about the finances of Coll., the results, measures and proceedings of the late meeting of the Bd., the conduct and sayings of certain mem.bers of it, the reasons pro and con for their acts and votes &c&c. In reference to ----"----'s way and measures of carrying his point: 11Twas most disingenuous, the most disingenuous proceeding I ever saw." The method in which the minutes have been kept was also severely criticised and condemned. The change of views and unlawyerlike special pleadings of Judge [?] and Judge [?] was another unpleasant topic. "Finesse!" "finesse!" throughout. 
Sunday August 5, 1855. Fine day. A M. At Pres. Ch., heard Dr. Back.us. P. M. at Bapt. Ch. Communion season. Mr. Day present. 
August 6, 1855. Today finished the groined arches of Geological Hall. The mason's have spent about 60 days labor upon them and laid a little over 60 m. bricks in that time, which for this kind of work is thought to be rapid work. Whole cost of arches, centres, piers, abutments, including labor and materials of every kind, about 700$. Space covered not far from 3500 [s.f.] or 20 cents pr. sq. foot. My estimate for the same was somewhat higher --not much. 
Tuesday August 7, 1855. Weather now seems more settled, less rain but still not hot and sultry. The question now arises, "What shall be the material for the 

floor of New Geol Hall"? Wood, marble, slates, or tiles? I am inclined to something fire-proof --to slates, a material that can now be afforded here for 1/ pr. sq. ft. Altho' common in Europe it has hardly been used here at all for floor. V. P. H. prefers wood. Marble is too dear --2/ pr. foot, and tiles worth 10c pr. foot is thought too soft and dirty. The Res. Trustees, who are the Building Committee, seem to prefer a fire-proof floor but do not say what it shall be. 
Wednesday April 8, 1855. Another point in the Geol. Hall relates to the fireproofing of one or two rooms for important papers and books. I propose to make the ceiling of the small room on the lower floor 22 x 15 with iron beams 5 1/2 ft apart filled in with brick arches and covered with slates or some other incombustible material. I would like also to make room above it of the same materials and furnish all with iron doors. The first is granted, perhaps the second will be. It is a pity that the whole building could not be so made as to be proof against fire. 
Thursday August 9, 1855. Dr. Nott, just returned from Connecticut, proposes for consideration a plan of heating by steam, now being used in that state to some extent. By his direction wrote to H. G. Ludlow, the Sec. of the Company, for his prices, and to Hon. Henry Barnard of Hartford for his opinion as to its merits. I had proposed to heat Geol. Hall by means of heated air, and have introduced the hot air and ventillating flues for that purpose. The steam process may heat effectually but I doubt its effica[cy] for ventilation, which without artificial draft is best accomplished by the rarity of heated air. No rooms in the world are worse ventilated than ours in U. Coll., much to our shame and discredit. 
Friday August 10, 1855. To supply Geol. Hall with water for building purposes temporarily. and with wash water permanently, I have conducted it from the great cistern back of the College by a lead pipe (1 1/4 in bore) to the cellar of the building and by means of a force pump aim to distribute it wherever wanted. To Albany at 2 o'clock for draining tiles (horse-shoe pattern) to place over the lead pipe so as to drain the ground at the same time. 
Saturday August 11, 1855. On Monday last in the afternoon rode out to Jonathan Crane's place at the twine mill with V. P. H. who desired to converse with him in regard to the "Hunter Point" property in which College has a third undivided interest thro' the Trust deed of Dr. Nott. Mr. C[rane] resides at H[unter] Point but occasionally visits his friends here. His son occupies [the] homestead and superintends the twine factory. V. P. H. proposes to visit H. Point and see for himself, hence this preliminary visit to Mr. C., who is owner of one third, Charles Ely being owner of the other. Found him at home and quite communicative --most too much so --running off into all sorts of stories not immediately connected with the subject. He fully understands ----"----as a business man and remarked that all his transactions were done in a most unbusinesslike manner and had eventuated in his loss of thousands and tens of thousands. By Bliss, he says. he lost $300,000; Bradford, ditto; that he has been the victim of designing and sharp men who well know his weak points. 

Crane takes to himself the credit of first suggesting the purchase of the Griffin farm to Bliss in 1832. B. immediately stated [that Dr. N.] wanted that property and that he (B.) was trying to get it. C[rane] then said, "I will not stand in the way of ----"----. Twenty years after, he was told by [Dr. N.?] that he (C[rane]) first suggested this fortunate purchase. I finally asked Crane what would be the amount of money College would probably realize from the property. . 
C. "I have not altered my mind on this subject. What I told you two years ago I now think--that Union College will finally receive $400,000; if the times are flush. it may be more, or it [may] be less. We shall sell but little this year for altho' our prices are rising yet the sales are dull. What debts stand against the property? "Two mortgages of $16,000 in all." 
Sunday August 12, 1855. AM. To Baptist Church, Rev. Mr. Day. P. M. Presbyterian Church, Rev. Dr. Backus. 
Monday August 13, 1855. Two or three talks with ----"----on financial matters, with little or no result except that I am told that I am honest and and so is Judge P. but we are both mistaken in our course toward him, that it would have resulted in his resignation had not the Trustees at the late meeting vindicated his views and censured ours. I denied that the Board had censured me or my conduct in any manner, that I was one of a party headed either by himself or by Judge P. Not being a Trustee I could not be a partizan with any consist[e]ncy. Long, rambling, general talk about old matters about which we have differed for the thousandth time and ever shall. 
Tuesday August 14, 1855. V. P.H. off to New York, Conn. &c. ---" ----goes soon to Bristol, Conn. where he has a copper mine, a subject 

of some interest to him, inasmuch as it is a kind of lottery in which he apparently delights as of old. The rumor is that a rich vein has just been discovered in it. Doubtful! I believe nothing I hear of such things till dividends show the truth of such rumors. As it would do no good to ask him for information, I have refrained from broaching the subject in his presence. 
Wednesday August 15, 1855. For several evenings have been engaged searching the Minutes of the Board of Trustees for all the General laws and resolutions relating to the duties and powers of the Treasr. of Un. College. So many occasions have arisen for the use of such a collection that I have copied and am about to print them. The Book of Minutes contains a complete chaos of forgotten and neglected laws on various subjects and for various persons some have been repeatedly enacted. Others, altho' receiving the assent of the Board, are of no legal and binding character because not passed by a guorum. Nothing is more needed than a codification of all these rules. They should be carefully selected and printed, after having been revised by a competent committee. This however is opposed to ----"----'s notions of such matters. He doles out from time to time what is called an Abstract of the Laws --a selection, with additions of his own, of only such as he likes, the rest being omitted. 
The faculty may desire ever so much a code of laws, but it will amount to nothing, because----"----does not favor it. As things now are, but one law is necessary: "That ----"----have the whole power in his own hands of every kind and do just as he pleases in spite of Trustees or others." 
Thursday August 16, 1855. Fine moderate weather. This morning at 9 o'clock Prof. Foster's wife died of consumption, of which she has been some time sick. She was the daughter of Wm. Lyman, an aged citizen, and an only child; leaves two young children, daughters. 
The prevailing disease this season is what is commonly called "summer complaint" --which assumes the character of dysentery. It is somewhat fatal to children but not to older people. Every summer my mother is much afflicted with it and reduced to a feeble remnant of strength. Think of visiting N. Y. City for a day or two with wife to visit her Sister Sarah, who lies ill in Brooklyn. 
Friday August 17, 1855. Pouring shower this morning before day. During the A.M. the wind wheeled around from so. to west and blew up strong and cold. . 
Endorsed a note of $1200 for ----"----due at Farmers Bank, 

Troy. He aimed at leaving town today or tomorrow for Bristol, Conn. 
but Mrs. Foster's funeral will delay him till Monday probably. 
Call from H. S. Losee, a graduate of U.C. but now a lawyer and teacher in Alexandria, Rapides Parish, La. Talked on the peculiarities of southern life, of slavery &c .. With some good qualities, the southern population is very deficient in many of the virtues which are desirable in a good character. The men are quick, passionate, and indolent, resentful of slight injuries and hasty in seeking revenge with pistol and knife. L[osee] mentioned several cases of murder, under most ag[g]ravated circumstances. In all cases the murderer goes clear or with but a slight punishment. 
At tea: Miss Harriet Anable, Miss Fanny d[itt]o, Mrs. Courtlandt Anable, all neices of Mrs. Nott save the last. 
Dr. L[ewis], after much hesitation and a conversation with ---.----on the subject, today signed the "Trust-fund Pledge" with a protest and explanation in relation to it. 
Saturday August 18, 1855. Usual routine in Treas. office. This P. M. attended the funeral of Mrs. Foster, wife of Prof. Foster, at 3 o'clock from the residence of her father, Mr. Wm. Lyman, in State Street. Mrs. F. was the only surviving child of her parents and about 40 yrs. of age. A sad sight --those aged parents committing their last earthly hope and stay to the ground. Two little girls are left. 
Had expected to leave for Hudson and N. Y. tonight but the funeral and Mother's poor health forbid it. 
Sunday August 19, 1855. Cool --almost a frost last night. A. M. To Pres. Ch. Heard the Agent who for many years has presented the Bethel Cause to the churches of this region. A faithful little man, always well received. 
Monday August 20, 1855. Dr. Nott and Mrs. N. away to N. Y. and Bristol, Conn. this morning. 
Called on V. P. H. who has just returned from N. Y. and Conn. As before stated, he went [to] N.Y. last [week] for the purpose of seeing the Hunter Point property on Long Island opposite N. Y., in which the College has an interest thro' the Nott Trust Deed. The impression he received from an inspection of the tract, and conversation with Mr. Crane and others was that the property in question is a very valuable one, much more valuable than he had anticipated. He thinks it worth $1,500,000 and will produce to the College after all debts are paid at least $400,000. 
It may be more if the times are propitious, but can hardly be less. Much doubt has been thrown upon this whole matter by the closeness which has been observed about it and by repelling any investigation on the part of the Trustees. ----"----has only said from time to time that College would have much more than was promised, from $700,000 to 1,000,000. Few persons believed it then or do now. Still, if $400,000 is in store for us, it will do and ought to be satisfactory. 

Tuesday August 21, 1855, Fine, mild, comfortable day. 
The cheif difficulties in building arise from nonfulfilment of contracts by mechanics and dealers in materials. Few promises can be relied upon, no man is punctual, no materials are quite what you bargained for. Hence at every step in the work one is vexed with a jar in its áprogress. I was led to these reflections this morning by finding the oak "bearing beams" for Geol. Hall, furnished by a supposed reliable man, quite other than they were expected. 
Ten o'clock to Albany with P. Potter for the purpose of consulting the Finance Committee men residing there --B.R. Wood, C 
B. Cochrane and E.C. Delevan --about a transfer of investment in Paige, Potter & Reed's mort[gage] to another of nearly the same amount on the Gilboa Cotton Mills. C. B. C[ochrane], who has lately removed to Albany, the only one of the 3 in town. To Corning & Co's and bo[ugh]t lndia rubber hose for Geol. Hall and home at 12 o'clock in Emigrant Train. 
P. M. found another hitch in the Geol. Hall. The hemlock floor timbers, contrary to order, were found to be too short --a portion of them at least; fortunately, however, the remedy is not expensive, altho' vexatious. 
In conversation with Dr. Nott a few days [since?] he spoke of the Missiouri forays into Kansas and of the determined efforts of slave-holders to extend the deadly curse over all the Free Territory of Union. Among other things he said, it was his opinion that the Union ought to be dissolved. He could not look upon the matter with such horror as some men do. He thought it would be better both for the South and the North. He could not see that our interests were so identical as to make the Union necessary for either party. The two great nations could then go on harmoniously without this eternal and increasing strife for the ascendancy. In regard to the great Eastern War he could see no good to come out of it for the cause of the people of Europe; it was a war of the Princes and Nobles, not for their sub.jects for whom he saw no hope unless it might be that our own country should in time be strong enough to take sides for the pop.ular cause there. At present this seemed impracticable and unwise. 

Wednesday August 22, 1855. Weather ditto, with signs of rain at night. Another long talk with V. P. H. and explanations of the situation of the Hunter Point property from a map of the same. The conclusion of the whole matter as before is, in his mind, that it is a very great property from which College cannot fail to derive great returns in the course of a few years. Sister Magoun up on a day's visit. Misses Harriet Anable and Fanny d[itt]o, spending the day with us also. 
Thursday August 23, 1855. Heavy rain during the night, which passed off at 3 o'clock P. M. Followed with a clear warm sun. A day like most of its fellows with but little of incident and less of real interest. Writing letters, overlooking masons and carpenters and the like. Sister Magoun left for home at 3.30 P. M. 
Friday August 24, 1855. Fine comfortable weather. A tolerably correct summing up of the expense incurred for GeoLHfill makes the cost of the foundation, cellar and groined arches, including water table and centerings, to be $2000. This seems to be a large sum, but when the amount of labor and materials is considered, it will really not appear excessive. The falsest economy in the world is to strut [stint?] the foundation of a heavy structure. All the experience of the past in Union College has taught us this lesson. Our present huge barracks with all their mountains of bricks and timber are slowly giving away and settling out of shape by reason of defective basement walls, and a few years more will force us to rebuild them whol[l]y or in part, to make them safe and tenable. Should we err in future, I trust it will be in making our buildings too strong rather than the miserable, disgraceful, expensive barns which we now occupy. 
Saturday August 25, 1855. As delightful a day as the season has afforded. The hopes which we had of a year of temperance and good order are sadly dashed in many of our cities. Rum reigns triumphant in N. Y., Albany, Schenectady and other places. Every flaw in our liquor law which sharp lawyers can discover is seized upon for the benefit of the seller, and judges, courts, juries and officers seem leagued to give the people over to the tender mercies of the most ruthless robbers. This rum battle will be a long and terrible one, and before Temperance rules and order reign, good men and true must as one man come to the rescue with a determination not hitherto shown. 

The morality of money-making is the religion of the devil; men who personally in all other matters are just and respectable, in their dealings with others commercially regard neither God nor man. Else how could reputable men continue to distill and vend an article which yearly burns up and sears [the] body and soul of thousands of otherwise honest and capable men! What a code [ ofj morals! To steal a mans cash is criminal; to steal his brains and render him poor indeed, is lawful and hardly disreputable, except in the opinion of those fanatical "teetotallers" who rant about the Maine-liquor-law! 
Saw Alex. Holland and wife at depot, 11 1/2 o'clock A. M. 
Sunday August 26, 1855. Rain in torrents till noon. Not out to 
church all day. 
Monday August 27, 1855. Cool, clear, and comfortable. -Usual routine, cheifly hunting up materials for Geol. Hall, paying up bills, writing 
letters &c. 
Saw this evening in Dr. Truax' store a curious fossil --the tooth of some animal of great size, the mast[o]don p~rhaps. It was found on the land of Messrs. Van Eps, of Rotterdam, about 2 m[ile]s from the city. Their farm lays upon the edge of the flats near the sand bluff bordering the Valley of the Mohawk. The relict was picked up, I am told, on the banks of the stream running past their house. There can be little doubt, I think, that the skeleton of the animal lays near where this tooth was found in the soft boggy clay of this spot. Would it not be worth looking for ? 
Tuesday August 28, 1855. Fine day. After much arranging of busi.ness, directing and ordering of workmen, self, wife and Willie started on the 6 o'clock P. M. train for Albany and thence for New York City, a jaunt of 3 days to visit Sarah Harvey, wife's half-sister lying sick in Brooklyn. 
Albany 
Six-forty and on board the steamboat "Isaac Newton," now accounted the best boat on the river. The travel during the summer is divided between the river and the rail --the former the cheapest and most comfortable, the latter the fastest and dirtiest. Tonight the number was 500 perhaps on the "I. N.11 --berths and staterooms all taken; those applying for the latter do so 12 to 24 hours before.hand or they fail of getting one. Ours No. 7 4, well forward. On the boat found Prof. J. Foster and da[ughter] Helen going also to N. Y. Night cool, clear and moonshiny. Turned in about 10. 

New York and Brooklyn [Wednesday] August á 29, 1855. Fine, comfortable day, not uncomfortable in woolens. What with the thumping of the engine, closeness of our little box of a room and strangeness of all things around, got but little sleep and that none of the best. At 5 o'clock A. 
M. the engine ceased its beating and we were in N. Y. Passengers began to move, doors to slam, tramping overhead and all around; sleep fled and we followed the crowd. To Fulton ferry, across to Brooklyn and at 7 o'clock at F. J. Hosford's near corner of Washington and Nassau streets. Breakfast and to see Mother and Father Harvey and Sarah a few doors off in Nassau St., the latter comfortably well off considering all things altho far from well. Still her physician promises a cure. 
At 10 oclock started again for N. Y. with F. J. H. To Cooper & Hewitt's,, 17 Burling Slip, to converse about iron beams which have been ordered for Geol. Hall. With a letter of iintroduction to Harper & Co., called upon those gentlemen in Pearl Street for the purpose of examining their new fireproof store and factory. Found the "Col" Harper a polite, kind gentleman ready to answer all my questions and give all the desired information. Their buildings are far from being fire-proof, altho' doubtless much safer [than] the former ones. 
E. g. the roof is wooden, the floors are partly wood, battens on iron beams and brick arches, thus 
[DRAWING HERE] 
immense quantities of shelves all of wood &c&c&c. On the other hand, each story is quite disconnected [from] those above or below, communication only being had by means of a perfectly unbumable winding stair, thus 
[DRAWING HERE] 
To Pine and Nassau Sts. at corner of which Duncan Sherman & Co. are building a new banking house. Here is to be a perfectly fire-proof building appar[e]ntly regardless of cost. The beams are all of wrought or rolled iron shaped thus; ******* like the rail of a R. Road only deeper and heavier --say 7 to 9 in. deep. Called a moment on cousin Wm. Libbey in Broad St. who is in [company] with Graef & Marsh in the commision business, selling men's goods for clothing. A few moments to see Alex. Holland and L. H. Millard at the Am. 

Express Co., 62 Broadway, and from thence by "bus" to Astor Place. 
1. Astor Library, filled with fine books. The building somewhat disappointed me and yet I hardly know why. The interior is perhaps well enough but not such as was to have been expected from the money and talent expended upon it. In some respects there seems to be a want of good, delicate taste, and a nice perception of the beautiful. The grand defect is sacrificing nearly the whole floor to a grand marble staircase and entrance thus: 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
A large portion of the best room in [the] house needed for readers 
and for other purposes is thus lost for the mere purpose of show. 
2. To Mercantile Library but found it closed. 
3. To Cooper Institute, new building near the former. It lacks the highest story but is progressing rapidly. No building in N. Y. has pleased me more. It is entirely fire-proof and contains a larger variety of materials than is usually employed. Iron wrought and cast, granite, red sandstone, bricks, and terra cot[t]a. 
New York and Brooklyn Thursday August 30, 1855. Fine comfortable day. At 8 o'clock P. M. started from Brooklyn with wife, crossed Fulton ferry took "bus" for Madison Square and visited the establishment of Dr. Sims --a hospital for poor women who are afficted with a variety of diseases incident to the sex. 
,Dr. S. is yet a young man, about 40 --kind, affable and communicative. He showed us over his hospital, explained some of the cases, and withal became enthusiastic on this his pet enterprise, which is supported by some of the benevolent ladies of N. Y. Saw Ann Carr here, from Schenectady. 
To 634 Sixth Avenue to see Mahlon Hosford, wife's bro. Found him sick with the consumption, weak and emaciated, and made arrangement to take him home with us. Back to Brooklyn at 1 o'clock and to dinner at F. J. Hosford's, wife's cousin, where we stop. Three o'clock back to N. Y. to F. J. H's store, 35 Wall Street, to Am. Express Co. to see Holland and Willard, back to Brooklyn to tea. 
Hudson Friday August 31, 1855. Weather ditto, cool enough for woollen cloths. Up at 4.30 A.M. Breakfast at 5 o'clock and off to the Hudson River Rail Road depot, Chamber's Street, N. Y. No "bus" at that early hour, a long weary walk for wife and Willie. Started at 6 o'clock, 
I 30 l 
found Dr. and Mrs. Nott on board, now just returning to Schenectady. The awful R.R. accident on the Camden and Amboy R. R. is in everybody's mouth and makes one tremble to travel on R. Roads. Dr. 
N. and Mrs. N. stopped over one trip at Rhinebeck to visit Miss Garretson. Ten o'clock A. M. at Hudson at bro-in-law Magoun's. All well and comfortably settled in their new house. Five P. M. Out to ride to Claverac Village. 3 ms. from H [ udson]. The lion of the Village now is the great mammoth school just opened for boys and girls. The Valley of the Claverac is a rich pleasant spot and now in full verdure. 
Schenectady . Saturday September 1, 1855. Weather ditto. At Albany at 11 o'clock where found Mahlon Hosford who came up in the night boat. Twelve o'clock at home, glad to find all well as usual. 
Sunday September 2, 1855. Fine shower last night, and this morning cool and delightful. To Bpt. Ch. in A. M. Communion season in P. M. at 2 o'clock, Rev. Mr. Day. 
At suggestion of wife called Dr. A. M. Vedder to examine Mahlon's state. Report quite unfavorable. He says it is a case of settled consumption, and will probably terminate fatally soon. Poor 
M. seems daily to fail; his breathing is short, quick and difficult, his strength ls almost gone and altogether he is in a sad state. May he be prepared for his last and great change. 
Monday, September 3, 1855. Cool. Saw Misses Anna Marla Harriet and Fanny Annable at Mrs. Nott's, their aunt. The former and latter leave today for Philadelphia to recommence their school. Dr. N. complains of lumbago, the premonitions of decaying nature. Floor timbers of 2d story, Geol. Hall, on today. 
Saw Judge P[aige] to get checks countersigned. 
Tuesday September 4, 1855. Beautiful weather. Our chelf care and thoughts are spent upon Mahlon, who daily fails percept[i]bly. He can sit up but a few minutes at a time, has little appetite, his cough ceases ( a bad symptom), and his breathing becomes more difficult. Mary is with him day and night. M's religious views seem to [be? need?] encouraging; altho' no professor, he now sees and feels the necessity of a preparation for his last change, and we hope the good God will at least spare him for such a change. 
Wednesday September 5, 1855. After sitting up half the night with M., to College and about my usual business. M. has but little severe 
{307.
pain, unless the want of breath may be called such; his mind dwells much upon religious matters and appears in a hopeful state. Oh, the folly of putting off a preparation till the hour when the pains of dissolving nature are quite enough to distract the thoughts from serious subjects! A death-bed repentance is surely better than none, yet it wants one important mark of genuineness --a well-ordered life and a godly conversation; these alone can be satisfactory and conclusive. Still, God saves men at the eleventh hour --the cheif of sinners, the theif upon the Cross. 
Thursday September 6, 1855. Students begin to come in rapidly and call loudly for rooms in College which cannot be furnished. 
M. is still weaker today and bids fair to die very soon. Watched with him thro' the night, aided by Mary. Oh how long the night seems to the poor sufferer for whom we could minister little or no relief; he turned from side to side but could get no ease: faint, breathless and hot, he must suffer till God gives him help. He expresses his trust in the merits of Christ and his willingness to die; he accounts himself a great sinner, but asks forgiveness where alone it can be granted. 
Friday September 7, 1855. At College at 8 o'clock to assign rooms to applicants, of whom there were not less than SO present. Whereas there were but 28 vacancies, of course there were more disap.pointed than pleased. Rooms enough, however, can be had in town and at moderate prices. 
With Mahlon a part of the day --his end visibly approaches. Today [it] seemed [he] particularly felt his situation, prayed much, requested me to do the same, expressed his willingness to die and his reliance on Christs' merits. Wife and self by continual watching and waiting upon the poor invalid are nearly exhausted. 
Saturday September 8, 1855. Entrances to College seem to be about the same as to numbers as last year when 110 entered in the 1st 3 weeks of the term. I think we may look for about the same this term. Up nearly all night with M., who cannot survive the day --so the Dr. ( Swi ts) says this morning. He prayed several times last night, audibly, and seemed in close communion with his own thoughts and with his God. This morning he is stupid or dozing at times and awakes flighty, speaks incoherently, breaths hard and short, and his extremities are cold and clammy. Death has evidently marked him for a speedy victim. 
4 o'clock P. M., having been with M. all day, I had the sad 
[303 
satisfaction of seeing him die easy and with[out] a struggle. I say satisfaction for if he must die and die so soon, it is better that he die easy and calmly. This is the first person I ever saw die --the first who has died in our little circle for many years --and I cannot but feel that it is a useful and neccessary lesson to us all. What but such calls of Providence can recall us to the realities of eternity and take off our minds from the vanities of this life. May the Lord bless this lesson to the good of all concerned. Telegraphed to Mother Harvey and Sister Magoun. 
Funeral on Monday 3 P.M. 
Sunday September 9, 1855. Fine day. At home all day. Mother 
Harvey arrived last night at 12 o'clock from Brooklyn where Sarah 
lies sick. We needed no other sermon than the silent, breathless 
body in our house. I trust it is eloquent for good to us all. 
Monday Septemberl0, 1855. Beautiful day. Preparations having been made, M's funeral took place at 3 o'clock P. M. Dr. Nott made an impressive prayer, and afterwards we committed him to the earth in the Presbyterian burying ground near the back end of the Session House. How soon will all this solemn scene be forgotten in the busy rush of life! How soon will poor M. pass out of remembrance of all on earth save a few living friends who must soon follow him to the same bourn! 
Tuesday September 11, 1855. Delightful day. Sept. promises to be the additional month of summer. To College all day. Met Conics Class, --Juniors --too large: this is fast getting to be the state of all our classes. They should be more divided and subdivided: we want more tutors or professors, more recitation rooms and more money to pay for all these necessities. We are fairly urged on to exertion, but after all the wheels are very much clogged by inaction and "fogyism". "Its good enough"; "We can get along"! and so we resort to a continual series of make shifts. Mother Harvey off tonight for Brooklyn to take care of Sarah who is quite sick. 
Wednesday September 12, 1855. Beautiful, comfortable and healthy weather. Recitations for the term: Jackson's Conic Sections, Junior Class, at 11 o'clock and 4 P. M. So unequally however is the class divided that upwards of 50 appeared in the forenoon and only 10 in the P. M.; therefore, for the better accomadation of the young men, directed them to recite at 10 and 11 A. M., as many as possible choosing the former hour. Here as in almost everything else about College we need system and order; everything is in "Pi"; everybody's duties interfering with each other. It is perfectly useless to attempt any reform because rules and laws, if made at all, are only made for 

show and to [be] broken continually. Again, we need more tutors  that  
the classes may be more  broken  up, especially  in Mathematics,  and  
we  need  also  more  recitation  rooms  large enough  to contain  our  

classes. It is a perfect mystery that our students stay with us at all, 
so crammed, ill-constructed, out of repair and dirty and ill-regulated 
are our rooms and buildings. It is a disgrace to all concerned, 
especially to the superintendent. 
Thursday September13, 1855. Weather ditto. Met 22 Juniors at 10 
o'clock in Conics, but at 11 o'clock had about 40. It is quite impossible 
to teach 40 boys in Conics well --too many by half. There must in 
some way be a still farther division, say at 9 o'clock, which will give 
me 3 recitations --at 9, 10, and 11 o'clock and prevent my Geology 
Class, for I cannot teach more than 3 classes this term and attend 
my other duties. 
Geol. Hall goes up rapidly now, within 6 1/2 ft. of the roof which will be ready for place, latter end of next week. The following are specimens of advertisements upon the "Bulletin Board." 
For Sale! Cheap, a good set of draughting instruments. Apply at 36 lafayette Street or to ____ _ For Sale! Zenny Funs Anabbysis Allso a writing desk with drawer, 2/. Call up at No 10, S. C., N. S. [South College, North Section] . FOR SALE. A box of superior DRAUGHTING INSTRUMENTS. Complete. Also a draught'g table. Apply at 45 S. College, S.Section. 
Latest News from the Seat of War. A dispatch from Genl. Pellissier to the French Minister of War states that Sebastopol is not taken. For further particulars apply as above. 
Friday September14, 1855. Cool night, some frost. Morning inviting warm clothing, the day moderate and pleasant. 
A certain "Abstract of the Laws of Union College" now just collected and printed by----"----makes much bad feeling among the Faculty. Dr. L[ewis], Profs. G[leason] and F[oster] and others speak very decidedly that these laws are insulting to the Profs., belittling and unendurable. What makes them still more provoking is that many are new and unheard of hitherto: many are obsolete, mutilated and changed, and all have received neither the sanction of the Committee appointed for that purpose, nor of the Board of Trustees. 

[PLACEAD HERE] 
Saturday September 15, 1855. Comfortable cool weather. No rain of consequence for many weeks. Geol. Hall. now goes up finely. Next week the masons will reach the top and be ready for the roof. 
Nearly all day in Treas. Office rectifying cash account &c. The number of new entrances to College have thus far been nearly 110, about the same as last year. A large number room in town. The prices of simple board are 20p to 16p, of rooms 6p to Sp; good board and lodging therefore can be had for $2. 75 to $3.50. These prices are about the same as at most of the inland colleges in the country and considerably less than at some of our eastern institutions. Fruit of all kinds were never plentier. Plums, the great crop of Schenectady and vicinity, are a perfect drug, they cannot be sold at any prices. 
Sunday September 16, 1855. Weather d[itt]o. To Bapt. Ch. with wife and boys in morning, Rev. Mr. Day. Wife indisposed in afternoon and at home. Yesterday afternoon had a call from Tutor Peter Veeder, who returned on Friday from a European tour of 16 months -.tanned, hairy, &c&c. 
Monday September 17, 1855. Warm day. Almost every day we are annoyed with little squads of half-grown men from our own or neighboring cities playing soldier with big bearskin caps, feathers and bright buttons. The music is the best part of the boyish exhibition and generally numbers more men than the soldiers (?). I can conceive of nothing more contemptible than these farces upon warlike shows. Most of such boys are no more fit for soldiers than so many girls. War is a horrible trade, and to foster whatever may lead to it, or keep alive a feeling for it, is to my mind anything but Christian or politic. "In peace prepare for war," is the doctrine of the Devil. Man's nature is sufficiently savage and brutish without fostering evil, revengeful and bloody passions. 
Tuesday September 18, 1855. Rain nearly all day. Wind froin the east, cold and piercing. At least 30 á difference between today and yesterday. 
Today commenced a class in Geology, reciting at 8 1/2 o'clock. Book used: Hitchcock's Geol., a very poor book but Hobson's choice --that or none. It is a matter of astonishment that one who has acquired so much reputation in this science could write so poor a 

book. It reads very much like a set of loose, ill-digested notes for a 
course of lectures, thrown together without skill and published in 
haste. Yet it has passed thro' 8 or 10 editions and has a wide patron.
age. The mechanical execution of the book is also below par and is 
hardly equal to that of Webster's spelling book. It neither does 
[credit] to author or publisher. 
Evening called on Mrs. and Dr. Nott with wife where found still Miss Harriet Anable. Chat about many things, among which Dr. N. spoke of the prospect of building another barracks for students back of the South College. One would gather from his conversation that the money was all ready and that the work would go on next spring. Would be glad of the money but must confess I should be sorry to see any more of it wasted in bricks and mortar. It is strange to me that a wise man experienced in College matters should adhere to so impracticable a system: the herding together of 300 or 400 young in one spot and in 3 or 4 contiguous barracks. It is ruinous to morals, injurious to health, destructive to correct habits and cleanliness and in every respect to be condemned. 
Wednesday September 19, 1855, Cool day, promising frost at night. 
I have an idea for a yearly publication to be called, "The Union 
College Year Book," which shall take the place of the usual Catalogue 
published in the third term. This is to contain not only the students 
names and courses of study, but all the leading events worth preserving of the previous collegiate year, such as new professors appointed, buildings erected, list of graduates, Commencement appointments, honorary degrees conferred. 
Thursday September 20, 1855. Sharp frost last night. Cool today. Eight 1/2 oclock with Geology class up college brook and to college quarry to show the structure of the rocks. Saw Dr. N. this morning -.talk about heating Geol. Hall. He prefers steam, to which the principal objections are want of good ventilation and the cost -.$1000. Gave his permission to the exchange of the Gilboa Cotton Mills mortgage, $5000, for the Paige, Potter, & Reed mortgage (in part), $6000. Also to the investment of $1000 or $2000 in the N. Y. Central R. Road Bank. Goes to N. Y. tonight for 5 or 6 days. 
Mr. Cooke, Prin[cipal] of our City schools to tea tonight. A young man of pleasant address and kind manner, thoroughly imbued with the true spirit of his profession. The school is to be opened early in October in the Old West College, which has now been thoroughly repaired and arranged for this purpose. 
Printed at my own expense and for my own purpose, the 
1367 
I 
Charter and the laws and resolutions relating to the Treasurer of 
Union College, 100 copies, one of each to be sent to each of the 
Trustees. 
Friday September 21, 1855. Cool, cloudy, threatening rain. Eight 1/2 
to 9 A. M. Geology, 10 to 12 A. M. two div. Juniors, Conics. 2 o'clock 
P.M. to Albany by rail for the purpose 1st of consulting Woollett or some other person about ventilation for new Geol. Hall, and 2d to learn if any 7 pr. ct. bonds of N. Y. Central R. Road could be had short of New York City. On the first point obtained but little satisfaction; on the 2d learned that the Treasurer of the Co. had a few bonds left of the $3,000,000 issue, for sale at 104 1/4, the market value. Home at 6 o'clock. 
Saturday September 22, 1855. Weather ditto. Busied a good part of the day about Geol. Hall. Sent to Albany by W. H. Powell, private express man, $1040 to purchase for College two $500 Bds. of N.Y. Central R. R. [at] the market value quoted yesterday in N. Y. On making returns found they had charged $1042.50 or 104 1/4 pr. ct. 
Much talk with V. P. H., Gillespie, and others today as to a temporary relief at least from the present want of recitation rooms; the only two rooms now giving any prospect of being usable are 1st the large empty room over V. P. H's house (no. end, So. College) and 2d the old Delphian Institute Háall over Prof. Newman's House (so. end, No. Coll.). 
In the first case Dr. N. has given up the use of the room to the Anti-Secret association of College and is not inclined to recall his promise. It is a killing pity that Mr.á Remay had not remained in Prussia rather come over here to torment us with his impracticable plans for College buildings. He has not exhibited as much good sense as [a] child. 
Sunday September 23, 1855. Moderate spring weather. A. M. to Pres. Church, Rev. Dr Backus. P. M. at home. 
Monday September 24, 1855. Weather d[itt]o. Foggy in the morning, 9 o'clock clear and pleasant. I find three recitations together with my other duties more than I can well fulfil. The treasury office alone has for many years required the time of one man and a clerk. In addition to these duties I have had superadded the labors of my professorship for the past 4 1/2 years. Next year the Library will require much of my time as it will probably be open most of the day for reference and for reading. In the [year] '5 2 also I had the 

superintendence of the Phil. Hall then built. This year that of GeoL Hall. Saw Rev. Peter Burghardt, late of West Farnis, now about settling at West Glenville [as] pastor of the Ref. Dutch Ch. 
Tuesday September 25, 1855. Fine mild fall weather. Some days since had an application from the Agent of Howe's Menagery and Circus for the privilege of exhibiting on College ground in South Avenue. I referred him to the President whom I consulted as to the propriety of such an exhibition, to which he answered that he had rather they would not come to town at all but since they would do so, it was better to have them on College ground than in some remote part of town where students if they went might be in more danger of getting into mischeif. The compensation was another reason in its favor. Accordingly granted permission, although against my better judgement, for $15 for one afternoon and evening. the 28th. 
Wednesday September 26, 1855. Windy from the south. Dr. and Mrs. 
N. returned from a few days absence at N. Y. and Bristol, Conn., where for some months past he has been, often being interested in the management of his copper mine there which some say is a valuable one. All he says himself is that "there is plenty of copper there if it can only be got out"!! In vacation (August) he had a committee of Benj. Silliman Jr., a Mr. Whitney and a foreign miner to examine the state and prospects of his mine. What is the result does not as yet appear. 'Tis said he is trying to sell out to the best advantage. Silliman asserts that the Dr. has spent there $500,000. If so, he will hardly see his money again. 
Thursday September 27, 1855. Hard rain all last night --clear west wind this morning and cool. Timber of roof will be on Geol. Hall by Friday night. College routine has the least possible adventure and change --every [day?] for each session is the same. Yesterday a parade of 4 or 5 meagre companies of what they call soldiers at the "poor house" on Albany Turnpike; today a grand procession of the Methodist sabbath school on College Hill and in the Garden; tomorrow, a circus &c. in front of College on South Avenue; next day &c. 
Friday September 28, 1855. Decidedly fine weather -a little fallish but clear and healthy. The cheif article of news today is the Fall of Sebastopol which, after a seige of 316 days and untold suffering and slaughter, had at last been burned by the Russians and abandoned to 
l369 
/ 
the Allies. In this country, notwithstanding the apparent leaning of editors of newspapers towards the Russians in this war, I believe in their hearts the mass of the people wish well to the Allies. Still we do not take that interest in the success of either that we should if the cause of the people of Europe hung in the scale. 
Saturday September 29, 1855. Weather ditto. Deacon Draper of Bapt. Church died last night of consumption, having been confined about 2 weeks to the house. At 5 this P. M. with wife and children to what was whilom called West College, now transfered into the public school building of the City. A wonderful change the old building has undergone in 3 months. From cellar to chambers it has been remodelled, newly floored, ceiled, plastered, painted, papered, glazed and warmed. It is now thoroughly ventillated, beautifully seated and desked, furnished with clothes rooms, hat and cap rooms, washing apparatus and, in fine, with every comfort that can be needed for an elegant school. I am satisfied that a finer edifice and grounds do not exist in the country for such a purpose. The thought arose, why cannot the College be fitted up as neatly and tastefully? Instead of narrow rude, ill-ventillated rooms and dormitories, why may we not have inviting places of daily meeting, where it will be a pleasure to sit ? Why not ? Who's to blame for our horrible barracks ? 
Sunday September 30, 1855. Cloudy, with wind from the south and 
prospect of rain till 5 o'clock P. M. when it fell rapidly thro' the night. 
A.M. With wife and Henry to Pres. Church. Communion season at which Drs. Backus and Hickok officiated. The table after the Pres.[idential?] mode is placed in the middle [a]isle and reaches from the front door to the pulpit and in front of it in the form of a T. This long table was filled twice with communicants seated on both sides of it. 
Mr. John Ellis, an elderly and respectable citizen, united with the church by "confession." Home at 1 o'clock. Read most of the Memoir of Rev. John Stanford D. D. by Rev. Geo. Somers of N. Y. This is an edifying book. Dr. S. was a most laborious, self-denying minister; he labored more than 20 years in the prisons and hospitals in and about N. Y. with great success. 
Monday October 1, 1855. Rain --rain -all day. Call from L. H. Willard. 8 1/2 Geology. Hitchcock's is the textbook and an ill.arranged mass of facts and theories it is, showing how poor a book for beginners an eminent man and Professor may write. 10 o'clock Conics. Juniors 11 [ditto] . Twelve to one o'clock in office writing letters, posting up acc'ts. detecting errors, etc. One to 2, dinner etc. -.
1310 
2 to 6, in office at the usual routine, then home to tea. Evening studying and writing. 
Tuesday October 2, 1855. Till noon the rain continued to fall, wind from N. E., when there was an appearance of fair weather and the workmen commenced again upon the roof of new Geol. Hall. With all my economy of time and labor, I find that my work gets ahead of me. Three Recitations and preparation for the same, superintendence of new Geol. Hall, and duties in Treas. Office are more than one person can do well. The conclusion in my own mind therefore is that some of my load must be thrown overboard. Especially as, in addition to all, the Library must be arranged and opened daily in the Spring. 
Wednesday October 3, 1855. Rain again all night and till noon, when the clear sky appeared with more promising signs of fair weather. College now is uncommonly full, and as [a] matter of course the usual proportion of "black sheep" are found in the flock --"hard cases," lazy, indolent, inclined to dissipation and sprees. Last night was to have witnessed a mock initiation of a "greenhorn" into a humbug secret society by some of the knowing ones. A small pine coffin was prepared into which the unlucky wight was to be placed and the ceremonies were to have been commenced at a little brick building called the observatory back of the North College and the closing exercises were to have been held at Van Horne Hall. Rain or the poor fellow's friends or some other cause stopped the proceedings. The coffin however was upon their hands and must be got rid off, accordingly about 4 oclock this morning it was placed against my front door, the bell rung and the gentlemen retired quietly. Today I received the anonymous note on the next page either as a sort of apology or as an attempt to direct inquiry upon the wrong track. 
Sir We learn with the deepest regret that a coffin was placed at your door last night probably by a person who wished to throw suspicion upon a party of students who were out last evening. We take this opportunity of informing you that it was done without our knowledge or approval as nothing would have induced us to perpetrate such an unkind act upon a Proff. who we so highly esteem. Very Respectfully Yours, A Number of Students To Proffessor Pearson. 
Thursday October 4, 1855. The prospect of fair weather yesterday was sadly overclouded today and rain fell all day, sometimes plentifully, the wind blowing from the west, sweeping back the rain 

clouds which for 4 days have been bro[u]ght from the east. Talk with Prof. N[ewman] today -whose study window has lately for the 3d time been smashed in by certain unruly fellows. On at least one previous occasion he found out the culprit but when reported to---."----nothing followed from it either of discipline or of fine sufficiently severe to correspond with the rudeness of the offense, hence N. --on the present occasion intends to let the matter pass without any attempt to discover the author of the offense. Moreover, like most others of the Professors, he concludes to report no more faults to ----"----since it does no good --only exposes one to the malice and evil-doings of the culprits. Oh! this humbug of "government," "paternal government, " "moral suasion" in College. The good effects of the whole would not save the souls of a flea. It is the merest sham that ever emanated from a Barnum! 
Friday October 5, 1855. A most beautiful, warm, summerlike day, quite different from what might have been expected after such a storm. 
A. M. Heard my three recitations till 12 o'clock dinner and at 2 o'clock started for Albany to purchase lumber and lime (Rosendale cement) for Geol. Hall. After doing up my business, to State Library and from thence to State House where found F. B. Hough, first State Census Clerk, busied with 14 clerks upon the State Census. While there, was introduced to a Mr. Hall of Troy, author of an anonymous work on College Words and Phrases and now at work on a history of the south part of Vermont, once called Cumberland County in N. Y. Found him a young man of good parts, intelligent and lively. He is a graduate of Harvard College where he wrote his work on College Phrases while yet a student. He tells me he is about to páublish a second ed[ition]. 
Back to State Library to see the Colonial Records of Massachusetts, 10 Vols. of which are now published. No work of the kind in any country was ever printed in such a style. It is perfect and faultless, well indexed, on fine paper, elegantly bound. The editor, Dr. Shurtleff of Boston, has done his work well. Albany gains in population and wealth, evidences of which are shown on every hand in the splendid houses and public buildings, factories and workshops. Home at 6 1/2 oclock. 
Saturday October 6, 1855. Wind south again and rain most of the day. This has been a bad week for progress on Geol. Hall. Still we 
l 31Y 
hope to get the slaters to work upon the roof by Wed. of next week. 
One of the most serious drawbacks to the comfort and perhaps success of many of our Professors and clergymen is the inadequacy of their salaries to support their families. Prices of all housekeeping articles advance much faster than salaries: as a consequence of this, debts and embarrasments come upon our literary men without any reasonable prospect of relief. Tormented with these facts there is a fearful looking forward to writs and duns. Many a poor man is thus hurried into his grave before his time. 
Poor Dr. L[ewis], nervous and simple-hearted! his life a continual unhappy dream of bankruptcy and ruin. At one time [pro]poses to sell his library; at another his life insurance for the purpose of paying his debts and supporting his family. The enlarged salary came too late for him; it will but just keep down his present household expenses, but will not pay up old debts besides. 
Sunday October 7, 1855. During the night wind veered to the west, the clouds and rain disappeared and autumnal chilliness appeared. This morning a great harvest of dried leaves covered the ground reminding us that summer is ended. A. M. With wife and boys to Bapt. Ch. Rev. Mr. Day preached. P.M. 2 o'clock to Bapt. Ch. Commu.nion season, a particularly impressive occasion on account of the recent death of one of our oldest members, Deacon John Draper. Since last month Dea[con] Weller has also left us, having re[tired?] to his 
native place in Vermont. 
From being a quiet Sunday-keeping place, Schen'dy. is gradually changing to the contrary and for the worse. The large foreign population, of course, regard this day as a holy day only, and young and old whilst the weather is fine do little else but stroll about the fields and grounds adjacent to the city. College grounds are now little else but a bear garden and foraging place for boys, loafers, and strolling Irish and Dutch. So intolerable is the nuisance that the Coll. Authorities already talk of some remedy for the evil. What may it be? A high picket fence and a constable or two. 
Monday October 8, 1855. Cool but on the whole a pleasant day. 
The slater, Mr. Allen of Fairhaven, Vt., came today. Tomorrow his men and slates will be on hand and next day they will begin to lay them, finish-ing the roof in about one week. 
Some conversation with Judge P[aige] on financial matters this 
P. M. Seven o'clock to 9 P.M. at an examination of 12 to 15 Freshmen who are contending for Prize Scholarships. Examination tonight in Arithmetic, Eng., Latin and Greek Grammars by Tutor 
/313 
Millard, Profs Lewis and Newman. Held in No. 7, New Phil. Hall, Prof Foster's rec. room. 
Tuesday October 9, 1855. Weather like summer, mild and charming. With a hundred interruptions and everyone around College calling for something and wanting everything, I have no time for anything but to run here and there and be a sort of general factotum. Studies and office business suffer. 
Seven o'clock P. M. At prize scholarship examination again, in No. 7., Phil. Hall. The following Freshmen appeared yesterday: Cook, Green, Squier, Peck, Heagle, Barrett, Miller, Brodhead, Collins, Eddy, Thresher --of whom Miller and Green did not appear this evening The majority of them answered uncommonly well. The examination this evening on Arith., Latin, and Greek was conducted by writing solutions and translations of given problems and passages. After a careful examination of these written performances the result will be declared. 
Wednesday October 10, 1855. Weather warJ:l?.and perfectly lovely. All hands busy upon the roof of Geol. Hall on which the slaters commenced today at noon and promise to finish in about one week. A new church edifice is going up in town belonging to the 2d. Dutch Ch., corner of Jay and Liberty Sts. The roof is just now framed and placed ready for enclosing. Much furbishing and decorating of private houses have been done this season, but few new ones have been constructed. 
Thursday October 11, 1855. Fine day. Wind south with prosspects of rain again. The trade of the politician in these days is a difficult and hazardous one. Old party lines are very much broken and disregarded, the watch words are numerous and uncertain, "platforms" are built of unsound materials which may endanger those who stand, therefore the rank and file of the leaders are getting mutinous and untrustworthy, ready to revolt and betray them: in fine, all is in a muss. As an example, New York will serve. No less than half a dozen conventions for nominating candidates have been held this fall. Fusion or Republican; Hards, Softs; Temperance; Know Nothings and Liquor Men. All have their tickets and urge their several interests by newspapers, addresses, &c. However fastidious, no man can help finding the men of his choice among so many. 
Friday October 12, 1855. Here it comes in torrents all night and steadily all day drenching everything --cold, chilling and 
13I~ 
l 
disagreeable. On the hills west of us the snow lies in a white sheet. All out-door business is suspended, and fires are pleasant indoors. Tonight had a half-hour call from Prof. C. A. Joy who returned yesterday in the Canada from Europe. He is on his way with his wife to Ovid, the residence of his father. His question was what is there here for me to do and when shall I begin. ----"----says go to Pearson, he and Judge Paige have the direction of matters now!! (sic) As for my single self, on the contrary, I say; I have no authority or direction in the matter at all, and shall not assume any if nothing is done for half a century in Union Coll. Standing upon my own ground I will not step off it and thus give or[?] others to censure[?] with truth and reason. 
Saturday October 13, 1855. Rain in a drizzle, now and then; no sun.shine. Wind west, with [no?]prospects of clearing up [in] the south with signs of more rain. Work on Geol. Hall at a standstill. Talk with 
V. P.H. in relation [to] duties of C. AJ[oy]: prospects of organising the Chem. Dept., how it is to be done, how supported when founded, whether by students, &c&c. He is not and never has been at all sanguine in regard the whole matter which he (with others) thinks was commenced precipitately, without due consultation and forethought. When commenced, it apparently is to be carried on in the same manner, trusting for support where it cannot be had (from income of College) &c&c. 
Saw Judge P. in relation to bill of printing the last Gen. Catalogue on which ----"----promised me, as partial remuneration for labor and risk, the sum of 150$ out of Coll. funds. Judge P. assented, directed a bill to be presented to each of the members of the Finance Committee for their sanction. 
Sunday October 14, 1855. Threatening rain all day with now and then a drizzle, and at night a pretty plentiful shower. A. M. At Baptist Church where heard Rev. Michael Welch, Ag[en]t. of the Am. and For. Christian Union. From his remarks I learned that he was born in the south of Ireland where he was educated and served as an assistant to the R. C. priest of his parish for some years. Some years ago he came to this country where he was converted to the Christian Religion by the reading of the Bible which for the 1st 19 yrs. of his life he had never seen. His sermon, which was a plain evangelical discourse, was founded upon the Offices of the Holy Spirit as given by Christ to Nic[h]odemus. It was interspersed with comparasons between the Christ[ian] Rel[igion] and the Roman System of priest.craft. At the close of his discourse he gave an opportunity, for those who desired, to subscribe to the Monthly Mag[azine] of the Christian 

Union. Paid one dollar for the year beginning Jan. 1856. 
P.M.to Pres. Ch. and heard Rev. Lewis Lee of Waterford. 
Monday October 15, 1855. Cool and fall-like. Geology in morning from 8 1/2 to 9. Conic Sections from 10 to 12 o'clock. Juniors in two divisions. P. M. In office and about the new building. 
Tuesday October 16, 1855. Weather d[itt]o. This morning attended the funeral of a young Mr. Clarke, bro. of a student in College. He came to S[chenectady] to visit his bro. some days before Commence.ment and was attacked with a kind of paralysis and affection of the brain with which he has finally died. He died at the North Boarding Hall kept by Mr. Wm. P. Lansing. 
Again has death entered the walls of College. Harlow Bowman mem[ber] of the Senior Class, after a sickness of two weeks, died this afternoon of what the doctors call the typhoid fever. AI tho' connected with College several terms he has not been in attendance long at a time. He was a married man. 
Wednesday October 17, 1855. Cool but fine weather. Last evening was celebrated the opening of our new city graded school. The exercises were held at the Pres. Ch. which was well filled by the citizens male and female, singing and speeches. First, Judge Paige gave some account of the new enterprize; then Dr. Backus read a letter from Prof. Goodrich of Yale Coll. on the schools of New England. Dr. Nott made some remarks, giving a sort of history of his labors to found a school connected with the College. And lastly Prof. Foster spoke some minutes, addressing the teachers and parents. 
Wife violently attacked in the night with a nervous ailment, soon over after some fright. 
Thursday October 18, 1855. Weather fine. This morning at 8 1/2 o'clock funeral exercises were held at Mr. Furbeck's, corner of State and White Streets over the remains of Bowman who died two days since. Afterwards his remains were borne to the R. Road to be conveyed to Canajoharie where he resided. Most of the day busied about Geol. Hall, directing and planning for the workmen. The slaters finish the roof tonight. 
Friday October 19, 1855. Weather delightful, like the Indian sum.mer. Slaters work finished on Geol. Hall. 
After years of talking and hoping, the friends of education in 
I 3 ll 
this city have attained their long deferred renovation of the public schools., They had run down so low as to be scarcely worthy the name and notwithstanding several recent attempts to better their condition, a certain class of taxpayers resisted all efforts for reformation in the fear that taxes would thereby be increased. A bill for a new school law was sent in to the Legislature by the Lan.castrian School Trustees in 1853 and urged forward by its friends, but individuals and committees of the opposite party resisted and defeated its passage. In 1854 a second attempt succeeded better and resulted in the present laws under which the schools are now organised. The Trustees of College have helped forward the movement by selling the West College at a much less sum than its value ($6000). The school commissioners by an expenditure of $5,500 have remodelled, repaired and furnished the building so as to seat comfortably about 500 children. The Principal, Mr. Cook of Hartford, Conn., comes with an excellent reputation for management. 
Saturday October 20, 1855. Weather d[itt]o. Setting furnaces in Geol. Hall. Two of Boynton's nos. 10 and 11 are thought sufficient to warm the whole house. Usual routine in Treas. Office &c. 
Sunday October 21, 1855. Rainy more or less all day. A.M. To Bapt. Church. Rev. Mr. Day preached. 
The 2d. Dutch Ch. commenced the building of a meeting house in May at the corner of Liberty and Jay Streets. It is now so far advanced as to be nearly ready for the slaters. 
Monday October 22, 1855. Pleasant day. At two o'clock with wife started for Albany; called on Dr. Paine (homeopathic) for advice and medicine for her. Visited several dealers in building materials for lumber and cement for Geol. Hall, and home at 7 o'clock, on a train consisting of 12 coaches loaded well with passengers. 
Tuesday October 23, 1855. Weather cloudy and threatening rain --a little fell at night. Prof. John Nott, who has been absent in Va. &c. nearly or quite a year made a hurried call yesterday and off this morning for the south, 'tis said. 
Wednesday October 24, 1855. Awoke this morning with a pouring rain, which at 7 o'clock changed to sleet and at 8 o'clock into snow falling in flakes more than [an] inch across. At noon snow ceased and rain continued thro' the day and evening A dismal, dreary, unpleasant time reminding one of the blues, winter and cold noses. 
t3l7 
\ 
In the evening Father Harvey arrived from New York. 
Thursday October 25, 1855. Wind from the west, cool and bracing. Snow all gone except on the hills north and west of us. Conversation with V. P. H. in relation [to] the Analytic Laborary --when it should be opened, how it should be provided and fitted up, and in the meantime what the Prof. of An. Chem. should be set about. We are like the man who had an elephant given him --having a Prof. and 4000$ worth of app[aratus] and chem[icals], we know not what to do with them. Father Harvey left at 6 P. M. for New York. 
Friday October 26, 1855. Raw windy day. 
Saturday October 27, 1855. Rain again for half the day, till about noon. Now is the season for political strife and spouting. This afternoon the "Know Nothings" hold a "mass meeting" at the Court House at which James Brooks of New York is to speak. All sorts of tickets and principles are advertised and for sale: Hard and Soft, Know Nothing, Republican, Liquor, Temperance &c&c .. 
Almost all day with Gillespie talking over a contemplated enlargement of his recitation room for engineering models and apparatus. He occupies no. 3, No. Collonade; it is talked about to increase his accommodations thus, by carrying the back 
[ORA WING HERE] 
wall out into Prof. Newman's Garden 14 feet for a length of about 64 ft., giving him three rooms 33 ft. deep. The estimated cost is $500; whether the Res. Trustees will think proper to direct the expenditure remains to be seen. 
Five P. M. at the Know Nothing meeting this P.M. a student was put downstairs in rather a hurried manner for hissing the speaker. Which very much raised the ire of his mates and led to much loud talking and threats. Dr. N. much agitated thereat for fear the students would get into a fracas at an adjourned meeting tonight. 
Sunday October 28, 1855. Poured this morning early, but cleared up at noon. Call last eve. from classmate Rev. Villeroy Reed of Lansingburgh. He preaches for Mr. Seelye of 1st Dutch Church. To Bapt. Church in forenoon, where Rev. Mr. Keitch, agt. for For. and Am. Bible Soc. preached three dollars out my pocket. P. M. to Dutch Ch. with wife to hear Rev. Mr. Reed. Instead heard Rev. Mr. Clute, a 
/3lo 
native of Schen. and once, for a time, in College --a stout common.place man and dull sermon. 
Monday October 29, 1855. Fine mild day. The ordinary incidents of a day are so commonplace and uninteresting as to be hardly worth noting. Ones labor or the results of the same can be appreciated only by years or a life time. Even at the close of our pilgrimage here it is often difficult for man to reckon his past influence for good or evil; only a higher power with all-searching eye can always trace remote and hidden effects back to their true causes. Some over-estimate their importance -others underrate their usefulness because visible effects do not follow their acts at once. A man's life therefore is made up of days; but each by itself is an insignificant atom and all pertaining to it is uninteresting and trivial. 
Tuesday October 30, 1855. The query arises among the concerned and interested, How shall we be provided with more recitation rooms? We want at least 3 or 4 more --Gillespie for Engineering wants another room, Newman ditto, and so on, but in this exceedingly wise (?) plan of Mr. Remays orá somebody else, not a single public room was contemplated beyond a Chapel (circular) 80 feet in diam[eter]! capable of holding 1000 or 1200 persons and a Library of the same size. All manner of makeshifts have been tried for 40 years to seat our classes in recitation, rooms15 x 17 ft., 25 x 19 &c. here and there, ill-ventilated, ill-heated, dirty, damp and repugnant. What next ? 
Wednesday October 31, 1855. Fine day. Busy closing the months business, posting books, balancing cash, getting checks ready for Prof. salaries tomorrow &c. Long talk with ----11----on various matters, to-night, among which Gillespie's plan for enlarging Engineering department. My opinion was, do nothing for a temporary purpose: 500 or 600 dollars is too much to throw away for only a 2 or 3 yrs. use. ----"----agreed with me. I then asked when we were to be provided with public rooms in the future. Our Collonades were evi.dently never intended for such purposes or they would have been made wider. The central building is for Chapel and Library; the two large rear buildings are planned for students lodgings like the front ones. A President's House is planned &c&c., but no lecture rooms suggested [except] that perhaps the first floor of one or both the rear Colleges might be appropriated to this use. But in the meantime (and they may never be built) how are we to live without these most necessary accomadations? 
1319 
Thursday November 1, 1855. Wind south, warm and damp these two days, threatening rain. Tonight it came. Busy all day paying off Profs. ,getting money to do it with, &c. 
Friday November 2, 1855. As Election-Day approaches, the activity of politicians increases and various tricks are invented to circumvent each other. Huge posters are seen at every corner calling upon all patriots to rally for the safety of their country, and warning citizens to beware of spurious tickets. One would believe from the general activity and earnestness of many, that this is to be the crisis of the country's prosperity. Brag and Humbug is the order of the day: each party m~n will tell you that his will gain the election by 50,000 majority. It is to be feared that the really important issues will be overlooked in the scramble of designing men for power. 
Saturday November 3, 1855. F. J. Hosford, wife and child from New York came last night on a visit. He is a cousin of my wife's --a stationer doing business [at] 35 Wall Street. 
Prof G[illespie]'s project for enlargement of his recitation room and apparatus room is again under discussion. V. P. H. does not like it and proposes the following 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
Take away partition "ab" and make one long recitation room of c and d, 19 ft. wide by 3 7 ft. with rostrum in the west end. This change would cost say $150. G[illespie] 's plan, if carried out, say $500, and not much if any better. The great difficulty arises from the want of anyone or any body of men to take the responsibility and say how it shall be done. G[illespie] goes to ----"----; he sends him to Judge P[aige] who says nothing can be done without a meeting of the Finance Com. ----"----dont like such meetings and wont call one if he can help it. V. P. H. dont like G's plan, ----"----does, but still temporises and puts off the project till spring, saying Pearson thinks it best, &c&c. 
Sunday November 4, 1855. With F. J. Hosford to hear Mr. Seelye at Dutch Ch., instead heard a young stranger, good sermon and profitable. Rain all day, more or less. 
Monday November 5, 1855. Weather fine sunshiny, promising fair tomorrow. 

Tricks and plots thicken as the day draws near: false tickets, false news, false handbills, lies, grog, bribery and intimidation. It is enough to disgust one and blast the experiment of universal suffrage. 
Tuesday November 6, 1855. Dull day but no rain. Election passed off quietly with no accident and no rows although the usual amount [of] rum was drank. 
Speaking of universal suffrage, no sadder result of its workings can be found than in the city government of New York where confessedly corruption runs riot, with hardly the possibility of any reform. The finances are plundered of hundreds of thousands yearly and yet tax payers and honest citizens despair of bettering the condition of things. The city government is given up to a set of harpies who fatten upon the spoils of office and gain the means thereby to perpetuate their offices. To be an alderman now is disreputable, to be Mayor brings no honor, to hold prominent offices of trust is equivalent to being suspected and charged with peculation. Where will all this end? 
Wednesday November 7, 1855. Fair and cloudy. All agog for news. It is generally conceded that the Know Nothings have the best of it. More trouble in getting our packages of chemicals and apparatus thro' the Custom House free of duty. On opening a box the officers profess to have found a China tea set which they properly say can not be for College apparatus. Wrote to Joy that he must go to N. Y. immediately and see to the business. Bills of freight have already come amounting to $517; at this rate the freight will amount to from 1/5 to 1/4 the cost of the articles. So much for sending without fore.thought or inquiry 25 or 30 packages by steamers, rather than by sailing vessels. Moral: If you want purchases made with economy, and business transacted properly, employ a tried, known, careful agent. F. J. Hosford and wife left at 9.30 A.M. 
Thursday November 8, 1855. The opinions pro and con respecting the talked of enlargement of rooms for the Engineering department wax decided and more numerous. Finally the Resident Trustees are to meet Saturday evening for the purpose of discussing the question. Some complain that this department is getting an undue proportion of the meagre funds of College; some assert that the contemplated enlargement by carrying out the north wall of No. Colonnade would be a blemish and an eye-sore forever; some say, to expend 600$ for a temporary benefit is paying too dear for the room, &c .. 

Friday November 9, 1855. No movement for many years has stirred up our "dead and alive" city as the New Graded School has within the month past since its opening. Already more than 1000 scholars are entered, and rooms which were thought ample to begin with are crowded. The Commissioners of Education now contemplate repairing the upper part of the Old West College Building and next year construct a new school house somewhere in the lower part of the City. The school is now the fashionable place of resort for our best citizens. They go with their wives and grown-up daughters merely to see the admirable order and neatness of everything about the old building. 
Saturday-November 10, 1855. We are having some fine weather 
now, but little frost and no ice worth mentioning. 
Tonight there met at Judge Paige's office, Dr. Nott, Trustees Judge Paige, Dr. Backus, C. B. Cochrane Esqr.; Prof Hickok and myself --to deliberate on the question of the enlarging the Engineering Rooms. Plans were presented, questions asked about cost &c., but not much progress made towards deciding the matter. Dr. N. was pretty decided in carrying out the north wall 14 ft. into Prof. Newman's garden, thinking it would be a permanent and desirable improve.ment. Dr. Hickok was as decidedly opposed to this alteration, and proposed instead to give Mr. Gillespie 25 feet more in length (west) of the Colonnade and the room above for a drawing room. The rest of the gentlemen merely asked questions and expressed no opinions. Finally it was proposed that the Trustees present go up at 9 o'clock Monday morning and view the ground and situation of the rooms. 
Sunday November 11, 1855. A.M. At Presbyterian Church, heard Rev. Dr. Backus. 
Monday November 12, 1855. Beautiful day. At 9 1/2 o'clock the Resident Trustees appeared. Examined the Engineering rooms, also the garden back, and adjourned to Dr. Nott's Study where the discussion went on to the final decision that the Treas. be directed to estimate the cost of putting all the recitations in good order --also of making two or three new ones. The remarks of the Trustees upon our present accommodations for lectures and recitations were anything but complimentary. Well they might be. 
Tuesday November 13, 1855. Prof. L[ewis], altho a nervous, fidgetty little man, is highly respected for his talents and worth, and 

commisserated for his various annoyances. 1. In money matters, for 
some reason, he is unsuccessful; being in debt, and living up to his 
salary, he feels there is no prospect of paying them; this disturbs 
his equ[a]nimity and prevents his sleeping nights. On 1500 dolls. he 
can live, but not live and pay debts; the increased salary came too 
late. 2. The young men annoy him; he can not be prevailed upon to 
be punctual at his recitations; they assemble around the door and 
while he delays drop a bullet in the key-hole; his key will not turn 
the bolt, this encourages the rogues, and next day the same trick is 
tried with hopes [for] another "bolt." Sometimes he leaves his key at 
home and kicks the door open. On the whole his condition is 
uncomfortable. Nerves are a pest. 
Wednesday November 14, 1855. Last evening was held one of these 
periodical shams called an examination on "Conditions," that is, an 
examination of such persons as having been absent from college are 
required to show that they have made up their studies during 
absence or, having entered condition[al]ly, on studying certain books 
in which they were deficient are now called upon to pass the ordeal of a Committee of the Faculty. I say a sham, for it is nothing else; after many years of experience I can come to no other conclusion. This evening was appointed for an examination of those students called "University Students," who desire to be examined for full standing in some class. None appeared, and adjourned. 
Mr. Foster's room, Second Story, Phil. Hall, No 7. was used for both occasions. 
Thursday November 15, 1855. Fine mild weather with indications of rain. Rumors about College of varioloid being common in town and .some cases in College altho' none are made public, if so. Made out an estimate of the cost of making certain new recitation rooms and altering and repairing others: $989. Also made a plan of benches for the Chapel Room, 1st story Geological Hall, to seat 348 persons. 
Friday November 16, 1855. Some rain last night and this morning cleared off with west wind. At the request of Judge P[aige], Trustee of U. C., made out and transmitted to him the am't due by R. W. Lowber to Un. College: this he wishes to use tomorrow evening in an anticipated interview. What may be the result I know not but hope this vexed question may be settled without involving me in any farther unpleasant disputes with ______ . R. W. L., being his agent and acting by his orders, of course the responsibility of these un]business-like acts falls upon him, who is a person to be dealt with, 
13 2.3 
with great forbearance. 
Saturday November 17, 1855. A cold night, leaving some signs of coming winter this morning upon the pools. A busy day: 9.35 A.M. started for Albany. On the R. R. Coach found talkative inventor of a new stove which he was experimenting with. He uses coal instead of wood. The cheif novelty consists in a long box 6 in. x 8 in. laid the length of the Coach from the stove in the centre to each end from whence the cool air was drawn to the stove. Thus 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
His theory is that the cold air which is upon the floor and at each end is thus drawn to the stove, heated, and ascends. To make his arrangement perfect, the floor should be double with openings of small size thro the upper one down thro' which the air might pass along to the stove. All this seems correct, yet one great defect is not remedied, the constant presence of foul air which is kept in AND constantly cooked over AND over again. All projects for heating R. R. Coaches which do not give a plentiful supply of pure warm air from without must be defective. Dust in summer and foul air in winter are the bane of R. R. travelling. I have long thought also that an improvement in the lighting of R.R. coaches might be made at night, by condensing in a strong metallic vessel a sufficient quantity of coal gas to last 3 or 4 hours; these vessels could be replenished at all our cities on the route where gas is made. 
Arrived in Albany at 10.10. Called on C. P. Williams, lumber merchant and made arrangements for a supply of lumber --Georgia pine strips for lower floor of Geol. Hall. Called on Squire Whipple, Civil Engineer, 30 Broad Street to inquire after a bridge model for our Engineering Department, had none; thence to the State House where I saw F. B. Hough, Census Clerk, with whom I had a few minutes conversation on various subjects, among others as to the probable successor of Dr. Beck, Secretary of the Bd. of Regents, who now lies near his end. I learned of him that 3 bridge bodels which have long lain in a lower room belong to Charles Van Benthuysen. I then called upon C. Van B. to see if he would loan them to U. College; he assented, saying he probably should never call for them. Back to the State House with a car man and took them to the R. Road en route for Schenectady by which time it was nearly time to leave. On board the coach met F. Lansing Esq. of Little Falls, also Judge Earl of Herkimer. Home at 4.10. P.M. At the sight of the bridge models, so unexpected to him, Prof. G[illespie] came near being tipsy with delight. 

Sunday November 18, 1855. Cold, windy and wintry. A. M. At Bapt. Church heard a Rev. Mr. Downey, late missionary in the West Indies. He is doubtless an Englishman, is deaf, which occasions a rather dis.agreeable impediment in his speech; the matter of his sermon however was good. A rather uncommon style of dress attracted more attention of the young people [than] his sermon did. He wore breeches and black silk hose with large silver shoe buckles. 
Monday November 19, 1855. As the term draws to a close, the fear of varioloid and small pox waxes stronger among the students: and it is doubtful whether the powers that be will not on this account hasten the closing of the term. It is probable there have been one or two cases of it already but of so mild a cast as hardly to be worth noticing. It is said, however, that one (F. Chase) who left a week ago is now lying sick of small pox at Whitehall. 
Tuesday November 20, 1855. A little sleet and snow, just enough to remind us that winter is coming. It is now given out that the ex.amination(?) will commence on Friday next, and the College be dismissed on Monday. V. P. H. fears that another mild case of varioloid is in College (H. R. Lovell). If this gets abroad among the students, it will be quite sufficient for a break up at once. 
Wednesday November 21, 1855. Snow a good part of the day -.damp, heavy and wet, almost rain. This morning all College was alive with the astounding report that Lovell is sick with varioloid! Last night the Profs on the Hill were convened and it was resolved to dismiss immediately. This morning the farce of an examination commenced at 9 o'clock and before night the greater part of the classes were put thro' at double pace. Tomorrow morning closes up the whole farce and all are off. Dr. Vedder reports that Lovell's case is so mild that at any other time it would not be pronounced anything more than a cold. 
Everybody is in haste, students in high glee, &c. 
Thursday November 22, 1855. Bitter cold day, as cold as January. It is quite distressing to see the fine autumn and summer weather flee altogether, and cold dreary wwinter take their places. Mostly busied about the Treasury Office and Geological Hall. 
Tonight finds most of the College dormitories deserted and lonely. Thus pass, term after term, fragments of years. Yesterday and today paid off the Prize Students, College paying 19 dolls. and 
l3)S 
Nott Trust fund 10$. 
Friday November 23, 1855. Cold and windy. Students are fast leaving for home, College Halls lonely and forsaken. I can hardly look for a vacation from labor, however. We have much work laid out to be done before next term and but little time and bad weather to do it in. 1. Prof. Gillespie's room is to be altered (No. 3) and No. 4, No[rth] Collonade, is to be fitted up for his apparatus. 2. No. 1 South Collonade (Senior Chapel) is to be altered for the better. 3. No. 2 ditto. Junior Chapel is to be altered and repaired. 4. New Chapel (Geol. Hall) is to [be] seated and floored &c&c. for occupation next term. These with various &c&ceras will keep all hands and head[s] busy. 
Saturday November 24, 1855. Weather ditto. Blew a gale this morn.ing. How little harmony is there in the projects and practice of old and young men in the business of life! It is seldom that they ought to be associated together in the direction of any great undertaking; for one is a drag upon the other. As is natural,. the former clings to ancient ideas, the latter desires progress; the one acts cautiously and delays; the other promptly and sometimes precipitat[e]ly: he chafes if held in check and kept from his purpose. The old man, not seldom, outlives his usefulness and lets go of the world only when he is ungently pushed aside by jostly youth. He forgets that he was once young and resents the rudeness with which the reins are taken from his trembling hands. It is really difficult therefore for the aged to resign their labors at exactly the right time. If too soon, the world loses the benefits of their matured wisdom; if too late, they leave the fruits of second childhood, retire at last without credit and with diminished reputation. ----"----has often said to me, "A man never knows when he has outlived his usefulness --I dont know but I have. I often think so." 
Sunday November 25, 1855. Windy, rainy, cold, unpleasant. At Baptist Church, Rev. Mr. Day. 
For the benefit of the Second Dutch, an "Old Folks" concert of Sacred Music is to had at the Pres. Ch. on Thanksgiving Day evening. The Union Religious Exercises of that day are to be held in the Second Dutch Church ( old Cameronian Ch.), Maiden Lane (Centre St.) 
Monday November 26, 1855. Weather mild ands pring-like. Com.menced repairs upon Old Senior and Junior Chapels (Nos.1. and 2, South Collonade) to fit them for recitation rooms. These rooms have now served as a Chapel and for recitation rooms for some years. The 

floors are beneath the sidewalk without, decayed and sinking: and it 
was found necessary to remove them, raise the level above the 
ground without, and replace them with new planks. They have 
hitherto laid upon timbers which in a damp confined atmosphere 
decayed rapidly. It is proposed now to fill the space beneath with 
earth and concrete and lay Norway pine planks free from sap upon 
this. 

In the midst of the general "clearing out" of old stuff and traps, ----"----appeared, with a thunder-cloud upon his brow, asking the workmen what all this was for. About this time I happened in. "What does all this mean? Who directed all this overturn? Have the Trustees ordered it?" 
I. (as much astonished at his agitation as he was at the havoc of rotten floors) No, Sir, but I understood it was as much your wish as it was that of the other Trustees in town that we should repair and make decent these rooms for recitation rooms. [ 
----"----I never knew anything about it. I had no thought of such an overturn. The rooms are good enough, at least for me. The floors will last 3 or 4 yrs. longer and then we may know what is to be the ultimate destination of the rooms. 
I. The galleries are en tire and the floors are as yet nearly so. If you desire it, I will stop all the work until I am ordered to go forward by the Trustees. 
----"----[Dr. N.] How much will the repairs cost? 
I. $150, or not more than $200. 
----"----Oh, is that all? I though it [might?] take 600 or 800 dolls. That is not worth talking about. I shant object. I must say, however, that the rooms are good enough for me. 
I. But, sir, you must not measure other peoples feelings by your own. You have a singular carelessness about your personal accommAdation, which few others have. No other professor in College would say these rooms are decent or respectable. 
----"----That may be so. 
I. (going) Now if you have the least objection to these repairs and will say so, I will stop them at once and await the direction of the Trustees. 
----"----I shall make no objection [at] all, Pearson. The cost is not worth talking about. 
Tuesday November 27, 1855. Weather mild. Talk with V. P.H. and Judge P. respecting our recitation [rooms] which they pronounce a scandal to the Institution and fully approve what has been attempted with Old Senior and Junior Chapels. 
1327 
I 
To Albany at 2 o'clock for stuff for floors, seats, &c. and back again at 4 o'clock. 
Wednesday November 28, 1855. Cold and bleak, the forerunner of winter. Much of my time is now taken up with looking after the repairs and alterations to our recitation rooms. Work necessarily goes on more slowly in short and cold days like these. 
Thursday November 29, 1855. Cold and windy. Thanksgiving Day is kept as usual. Religious services were held in the Methodist, Episcopal and 1st Dutch Church, at which latter place Rev. Mr. Day preached the sermon. Attended the Epis. Ch. at. 10 o'clock where Rev. Mr. Paine officiated, assisted by John Linn. In the evening an "Old Folk's Concert" was had in the Pres. Ch., the avails of which go to the 2nd. Dutch to aid them in building their house of worship, corner of Liberty and Jay Streets. 
Friday November 30, 1855. Weather mild again. The last day of the month, when the business of it is to be closed and posted. The proceeds of yesterdays concert are reported at $225, a sum rather under the expectation of those who saw the crowded audience. 
Saturday December 1, 1855. The first day of winter, it is hoped, is a forerunner of what is to follow --a mild balmy day reminding one of an Indian Summer. The death of Judge Jones (P.W.J.) an old resident ofSchen. is announced today. He has resided two years or so in New York, a clerk in the Custom House. Charles H. Tomlinson, another esteemed citizen, son of Judge T., lies near his end. Repeated attacks of paralysis have shattered his health, and life will soon close with him. 
Sunday December 2, 1855 Heard Rev. Hugh Dickson of Utica at the Pres. Church in forenoon. 
Monday December 3, 1855. Having concluded to visit N. Y. with wife and Willie, spent the day chasing about to get business settled so as to be ready to commence our journey this evening. At 4 o'clock started for Hudson by R. R. where we arrived without accident at bro-in-law Magoun's at 7 1/2 o'clock. Found all well. 
New York Tuesday December 4, 1855. Fine day. Started at 8 o'clock by R. R. for N. Y. where we arrived 1 o'clock and at Brooklyn at 2 o'clock. 
)328 
Found Mother Harvey well and Sarah comfortable, for her. She has now laid upon her back 7 months and is seemingly not much improved, none in fact, by all her treatment and advice. We stay with T. J. Hosford, 162 Washington St., cousin of wife's. 
Wednesday, December 5, 1855. Weather beautiful. Started with wife in the morning to make some calls in N. Y. 1st to Dr. Marion Sims, 79 Madison Avenue, to consult him about Sarah's case; altho' agreeing with Dr. Powers as [to] the cause of her sickness, he differs as to the practice. 2d. Thence to see my cousin Ann Sexton, 108 23d Street, found her well. Sexton is away at the South selling Jewellry. 3d. Called on Rev. A. D. Gillette, 29 23d St., saw him and wife and after a pleasant chat walked across the street to see his new church. Got home tired at two o'clock. 
Thursday, December 6, 1855. Beautiful day. Saw Gillespie and Joy to.day and went with them to Mercantile Society and Astor Libraries. The former occupies the old Astor place opera house and is most shabbily arranged in my opinion. Everything seems to have been sacrificed to architectural effect. There must be a central circular area with glass dome, let the books be thrust where they may. The room is something like this 
[PLACE DRAWING HERE] 
Some alcoves are dark as a pocket, indeed most of them are. The woodwork seems to have been put up green, is shrunken, dingy, and forbidding. The Society Library is temporarily deposited in the same building whilst the library edifice is building. The form is rectangular with three tiers of alcoves arranged thus .
[[PLACEDRAWINGHERE] 
The seeming defect, which is a common one in N. Y., is the want of light in the lower alcoves. It is a pity too that so good a collection should be put into a building containing so much wood. 
The Astor Library, altho' not the largest, is by far the best in the country; indeed I would not give it for any two others. It has little of the trash found in the older collections made up by the leavings and castaways of various donors; it was selected with great care and discrimination by Dr. Cogswell who deserves great credit for his excellent judgement in his purchases. The building is well lighted from the roof, well ventillated, well warmed and in every way comfortable and convenient for study. Was introduced to W. D. Fisk, Dr. C's assistant, who very politely gave me every facility for inspecting every part. 

With Joy went to the New York Historical Society Library, in 
the University Building; without inspecting the dingy treasures of 
the shelves retired, lunched at Taylor's and home. 
Friday December 7, 1855. Weather quite unhoped for: favorable, but one drawback --the fine penetrating dust floating about the streets. Magoun and Mary Ann down today to see Mrs. Coon of Hudson off for California and to do up the winter's "shopping." As soon as this was over, up to 22d Street to see Cousin Mary Libbey who teaches in a private school. Thence to 166 18th Street to see Mrs. and Dr. Nott, staying at R. W. Lowber's. Not finding them in, lunched and spent a time in the Astor Library. 
Saturday December 8, 1855. Weather ditto. Spent much of the day in Astor Library, measuring and taking notes with reference to the shelving of our own library. Ones' impressions of New York are as various as the persons visiting it; to me all the splendor and show of wealth seem hollow and artificial; all is outside show and unsub.stantial. Fashions are carried to extremes, e.g. ladies' hooped petticoats. Poverty and Wealth are next doors to each other. Vice, splendid and squalid, prevails; and the good and true seem buried and hid in the mountains of shams and pretense. N. York is fast aping the old world royal cities in all respects, and in spite of its growth and prosperity is fast becomi.q.g a festering sore and blotch, morally, upon the body politic. Great cities are great curses and N. Y. is no exception. 
Brooklyn Sunday December 9, 1855. Rain from so. east all day. Morning heard Dr. Bethune in his splendid new chapel in [?] Street, a piece of architecture which did not strike me quite favorably. It wants light, a common want in New York, and ls too much overloaded with plaster ornaments. A good sermon, but not remarkable either for matter or manner. 
P. M. Mr. Hogarth's (late Dr. Cox's) Presbyterian Church. Dark again altho' pierced by 10 large windows; about the organ, lamps were lighted. The house is finished rather plainly than ornately, but solidly and comfortably. All the wood work is black walnut, which is well adapted for church architecture. The sermon was pronounced by Rev. Wm. Hogarth--not read --was fair altho' not remarkable. In evening to hear the celebrated Henry Ward Beecher. His house is quite plain but of immense dimensions and quite filled notwithstanding-the unfavorable weather. He is doubtless a man of genius and power --often eloquent, never tame and insipid. 

New Haven, Ct. Monday December 10, 1855. Weather fine. Started at 8 o'clock from Canal Street for New Haven where, after a comfortable ride, we arrived at 11 o'clock and lodged at the N[ew] H[aven] Hotel near the College. Called a few moments before dinner upon Mr. E. C. Herrick, Treas. and Libr. of the College and at 3 o'clock received a call from Prof. Dana who accompanied me to the Min[erals] Cabinet and explained the arrangement. The room is about 100 x 45 feet: the cases are arranged somewhat after this fashion .
[DRAWINGHERE] 
The number of double standing cases is 22 with 4 small ones against the wall at the 4 corners. The shelves are so. arranged that the eye sees nothing but minerals when the observer stands 8 to 10 ft. in front of them; no bare shelf room is seen. The cabinet is a fine one: clean, beautifully arranged and of convenient reference. The specimens are placed in paper boxes made of white paper bordered with red, and those upon the same shelf are multiples of each other so as to fit nicely. They are seperated and bordered by strips of wood painted black which sets off the collection to good advantage thus 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
In the evening Professor Joy and wife arrived from New York. 
Tuesday December 11, 1855. Cool and windy. Last evening at 5 1/2 o'clock attended the Chapel exercises where between 400 and 500 young men were assembled in a neat little chapel furnished with an organ and whatever can conduce to respectful worship. The Chaplain read a chapter, gave out a hymn, which was sung by the College 
choir, and thus  the service  was closed by prayer.  The arrangement  was  
[1st STORY DRAWING HERE]  
[2nd STORY DRAWING HERE]  

(33 l 
One might criticize many things about the College and the fine park in front. The best buildings of the former are behind and hidden by the long range of ordinary brick dormitories; the latter is much marred by 3 churches and the State House, built in the middle instead of the outside of it. Two of the College buildings have some claim to beauty and architectural pretension --the Library and the Alumni Hall. Both are brown sandstone edifices, the former semi.Gothic, the latter of a sort of castellated order of architecture but, as I said, hid from view by being placed behind the older and plainer brick lodgings of the students. With Professor Joy, visited the Analytic Laboratory of Professors Porter and Silliman. The building is the "Old President's House" and a more dirty, disorderly, uncomfort.able affair I have never seen; it looked as tho' it had not seen a broom for a year. 
Started at 4 o'clock P.M. for Springfield, arrived at 6 1/2 and stopped at the "Massasoit House." 
Schenectady Wednesday December 12, 1855. Started from Springfield at 7.10 
A.M. for home. The day is cold and windy; dusty and disagreeable ride. Through the mountains some snow. Arrived home at 1 o'clock 
P.M.Laus Deo. 
Thursday December 11, 1855. Found the work on recitation rooms and Geological Hall progressing tolerably. 
Since my absence the dullness of "Dorp" has been relieved by a spicy discussion on the propriety of a Thanksgiving sermon delivered by Mr. Day in the 1st Dutch Church. Some allusion to slavery displeased a few who raised a hue and cry against "political preaching." The "Reflector" started the newspaper quarrel by an illiberal criticism upon the discourse and has kept it up by several long articles by "Laicus" (Prof. Lewis) and others. The "Evening Star," "Democrat" and "Cabinet" have also Joined in on the other side. AI tho a small matter to expend so much talk about, it may nevertheless elicit proper feeling and a correct state of public opinion on the subject of slavery. 
Friday December 14, 1855. Professor Joy and his German wife came to my home yesterday as guests for a few days till they get boarding and rooms. 
Saturday December 15, 1855. Dr. Hickok returned last evening from New York where he has been since Wednesday. Long talk with V. P. 

H. on the affairs of----"----which he thinks in a very unsatisfactory state, indeed in a threatening state, forboding pecuniary ruin and disaster; perhaps he takes too gloomy a view of things. ,His Pennsylvania copper stock ($150,000), he says, is confessedly gone past redemption. His Conn. copper stock he would not give-2 coppers for notwithstanding the favorable report of S. & W. His debts, he thinks, are imminent and onerous,: on which he is paying 1 1/2 pr c't pr month; his credit at the M[ohawk] Bk. is stretched to the utmost so that the Directors refuse any farther accommadation: on the whole V.p.h. rather despairs of his extricating himself. It is to be hoped his opinions are ill-founded altho' he says they are substantiated by independent testimony. 
Sunday December 16, 1855. Rain all day. Some snow last night; 
slush and water. To church. Heard Rev. Mr. Day at Bapt. Ch. 
Monday December 17, 1855. Mild day. The agitating question now is the election of Speaker in Congress and the Kansas War between Anti-slavery and Pro-slavery parties. The country looks on with profound interest. The great contest as to which shall prevail over the whole continent, slavery or liberty for all, seems to approach rapidly. The sentiments of the North are maturing and altho' a long time has elapsed for the process it is no[w?] sure and certain in the result. 
Tuesday December 18, 1855. Moderate winter weather. But few 
things are now stirring on the placid surface of College affairs. "Will 
the repairs be done in time for next term's use?" "Can you get the Chapel done?" are the main questions of anxiety. A little variety is also now added in disposing of Prof. J[oy], lately arrived. Prof N[ew.man] offers such accommodations as home affords; the uppermost front room is also needed but as----"----has promised it to a Secret Society(!) no one dares to say you can have it. Board in town seems out of the question except hotel board, which is not desirable. Thus all the Fae. and its wives are talking and contriving to extricate the sufferers from their dilemma. If----"----would only do this or that, then all would be well, but nobody wants to move in any direction for fear ----"----wouldnt like it. ----"----throws the responsibility upon vph who wont take it &c&c&c .. Another question more nearly connected with myself is "Who shall teach Chemistry next term?" J[oy] says you must keep it; A, B, and C of Fae. seem to say as plainly as they can, "You had better give it up to J. He will have nothing to do and you have got too much on your hands." 
1333 
Wednesday December 19, 1855. Weather ditto. Indications of change --it may be a storm. Days are short and but little done. Prof. L[ewis] , poor man, nervous and fi[d]getty, has a world of trouble in his money matters. How can one console him? He tells that his debts are 1,200$ and he sees no way of lessening them but by selling his furniture or his life insurance. Without showing any signs of extravagance, he really seems to be unable to meet anything more than current expenses, much less pay for old scores. 
Thursday December 20, 1855. Mild. Prof. T{ellkampf?] tells of the "inauguration" of Prof. P[roudfit] in 1818 as Professor of Languages. The old gentleman heard his first recitation in a room, 3d story over Prof. Newman's House (south end of North College). The entrance was through a long hall. Prof. P. sat by the door with his back to the hall. As the students entered the hall, they came armed with snow balls, sticks, stones &c., which they threw over the Professors head into the recitation room in most admirable disorder and riot. A perfect hubbub was thus kept for some weeks during which time the Prof. never made the slightest allusion to the confusion, never seemed to notice the noise, kept perfectly cool and quiet and in the end by his good nature and kindness disarmed and shamed the rioters. 
The discussion on "political preaching" is still kept up with considerable spirit in the newspapers of town. "Laicus," Prof. L., in favor of slavery, and "Abner" (Rev. Mr. S.), "Elihu" and "Index" in opposition. 
Chapel room in Geol. Hall (lower story) is floored over tonight. All that remains to finish the room is the casings and hanging of two doors and putting in the windows. The benches are under good way --nothing lags or gives any doubt of being ready in time for the opening of the term but the painting. 
Friday December 21, 1855. Mild winter day. Wind S. E. Plan of bench for 6 (or 7) persons to be placed in our new Chapel Room in Geological Hall, 9 3/4 ft. long. 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
Instead of "Emerson's tops," for the two ventillators in the two So. Collonade recitation rooms, which are very costly, we have adopted two of this plan, straight tubes with caps on them, thus 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
1334.
/ 
Emerson's has this form 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
Saturday December 22, 1855. Rain in torrents all day and evening. Father Harvey arrived this evening from N. Y. to stay till Monday. Prof. Joy and wife left yesterday to take lodging at Givens Hotel. The Chapel Room is to have 4 small boxes elevated for Tutors' Seats, from whence they can observe and mark the students. They are to be arranged thus by direction of the President 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
Sunday December 23, 1855. Beautiful mild day like April. In morning to Bapt. Ch., heard Mr. Day. P. M. to Dutch Ch. (1st), heard Rev. Dr. James of Albany, father-in-law of Mr. Seelye. 
Monday December 24, 1855. Long conversation with vph. in which [he] takes a gloomy view (too sombre, I hope) of ----"----'s pecuniary affairs even to the verge of bankruptcy. Equally discouraging is his 
talk of Prof J[oy]'s prospects for starting the Chem. Laboratory. The expense of an outfit having exceeded by some $2000 the am't. set apart for this department, it now becomes a question how it can be extricated from the dilemma and the materials purchased be turned to a useful purpose. J's orders were to expend $3000. for Chem. and app[aratus], leaving $1000 for freight and fitting up the building. In addition to the $3000, he purchased $1000 or $1200 more and shipped the whole by steamship at a cost of $1200 to $1400 more for freight and charges; whereas by sailing vessels the cost would have been 5 to 8 times less. These imprudences (to me the mildest term) have discouraged the authorities of College, and oblige them to look coldly upon the whole project of a laboratory. Tis a pity! a crying pity that we have so unnecessarily been thrown into this perplexity when as we thought we were about to realize a long cherished idea Having raised $4000 with great difficulty, $2500 more is demanded to start the Lab. --an impossibility, I fear, in our present impoverished state. 
Tuesday December 25, 1855. Snow, hail, and rain --scarcely enough to make sleighing. The Political Preaching and Slavery discussion prevails yet in our newspapers: 11Laicus," Dr. Lewis on the slavery side and "Abner" (Rev Mr. Bates, Meth. Mins.), "Index" (Rev. Mr. 

Seelye of 1st Dutch Ch.) and "Elihu" (Platt Potter Esqr) on the other. This dispute is a real godsend to the stagnant atmosphere of Schenectady. It gives not only something to think about but something to talk about besides our neighbors. 
The question is still asked "When shall be have a speaker?" (of Congress). It is now generally conceded that this cannot be done till after the holidays and it might be well for the country if not at all, unless this Congress can do more than the two last to pacify the people, already excited at the continual agressions of slavery. 
Wednesday December 26, 1855. Two in. more snow last night. Today cold, windy and squally. The dull routine on the "Hill," is the same day after day with nothing to relieve its sameness. The little gossip and scandal current is hardly enough to enliven the scene. Term commences next week and all our forces of workmen are busy preparing for it. 
Thursday December 27, 1855. Cold windy day. Sleighing as fine as can be and well improved --every nag that has 3 legs has to make them wag. á 
Friday December 28, 1855. Weather a little milder. Letter this morning from ----"----in New York. He seems to write somewhat despondingly --a letter by no means satisfactory, nor pleasant. Vph. speaks decidedly of the prospect of his speedy prostration pecuniarily; it's to be hoped not. 
Saturday December 29, 1855. Cold and piercing north wind. 
A letter from Dr. Nott states that he will not return from New York before Saturday, the 5th of next month. All is hurry and vexation about College, getting ready for the opening term. Painters, carpenters, and masons are running over each other, and Prof. G[illespie] is writing from N. Y., scolding and fretting because his apparatus is not in ample order for his reception. 
Vexation accompanies all that is done about a College because every one is "baas" and criticise all that is done or left undone. One needs as much patience as Job to be "clerk of the works" or to have anything to do in the matter. Professors are men, they want this, and they want that. College is poor and they cant have it; they grumble and complain, as tho' College was a harsh old mother-in-law and thwarted them on purpose because she liked to. Vph. has now added an additional feature to the Chapel room --a singer's seat at the east side, elevated 9 in. above the floor thus [DRAWINGHERE] 

Sunday December 30, 1855. Six inches snow last night; some wind 
which will drift it. To Baptist Church. Rev. Mr. Day preached. 
Yesterday moved South College bell from its old position, where it has hung many years about midway the Collonade, to the extreme east end of same, close upon Geol. Hall, and placed it upon a new iron frame under a rough shed. 
Monday December 31, 185 5. Cold morning, glorious day --mild, clear and bright. Sleighing never better and the town alive with country people and merry sleigh riders. Sister Magoun came at 1 o'clock toáspend New Years. 
Tuesday January 1, 1856. A charming day after a cold night --clear, bright and exhilirating. All day long in Treas. Office bringing up accounts to close of the year, preparing receipts and circulars for West Troy tenants and writing a long letter to the President in relation to R. W. Lowber's indebtedness to U. C. Workmen all off keeping "New Years" and work at a stand stilll; it is so far along however now that we do not fear that all will not be in readiness for the opening term on Friday. 
A call from C.B. Cochrane Esq. of Albany; showed him the new chapel and the renovated recitation rooms, which pleased him much. In town this evening where am sorry to find so much drunkenness and rowdyism. Legislature met today. In the House there are 4 parties: Hankers or Hards, Softs, "Know Nothings" and Republicans, all so well-balanced that no one has a majority. It is now feared we may have the same game played in the choice of officers as Congress is now presenting. 
Presidents Message came last night in advance of the organization of Congress --a thing seldom if ever known before. 'Tis a pity that our National Legislature should so far demean itself or rather the country in the eyes of other nations, by their quasi revolutionary proceedings, like stubborn children refusing or neglecting to organize. The waste of time is of not much account, for that they always do, but fruitless and puerile quarrels about party questions are by no means to our credit of dignified and honorable men. 
Thursday January 2, 1855. Very cold morning. At 8.10 A.M. started for Troy on business of College. 1. Stopped at West Troy and left 
/337I 
receipts of rents for tenants on 40 lots in which College has an interest, left also an advertisement for the Village Newspaper and circulars for the. tenants at the Post Office. 2. Crossed to Troy and called at Farmers Bank for the Dividend ($230); also had the stock of College held for some time by Philander Wells, Cashr., in trust for College transfered to College. Called on LewisE.Gurley a few minutes and at 11 .40 A. M. started for home. 
Thursday January 3, 1856. Six to 8 in. snow last night and today. 
Today placed benches in new Chapel, put down carpet upon platform, finished varnishing the paint and commenced cleaning the floor. A few new students have come on. I dread the term. What with Treas. business and general superintendence, recitations &c., my time is all too short for my duties. 
Friday January 4, 1855. Cold windy day. Last the same. Today the term commenced with evening prayers in our new Chapel in Geol. Hall, a room that seemed to strike the students with admiration in comparison with our previous discommodations. The business of the day was quite the same as other first days at the opening of the terms. Everyone desires a room in College, many are disappointed; this is wanted, that is asked for; College is expected to do everything; not only to educate but also to lodge and all for mere nothing. 
Prof. G[illett] returned this morning: nothing has been done right in his room; everything is criticized, altho' he has had all done for him he could well ask, considering our poverty. I can simply resolve never to be party to any other alterations or repairs for one whom I know to be a fault-finder. Faculty meeting at 4.30 P.M. Present Vice Pres. Hickok, Profs. Jackson, Foster, Newman, Gillespie, Pearson, Peissner, Tutors Millard, Bartlett --at which nearly the same arrangement of studies as last year was resolved upon. 
Had letter from President saying there was not much prospect of his being here before Monday next. 
Saturday January S, 1856. The coldest morning of the season; ther.mometer at -12 á. Towards night the temperature became milder with wind and snow from the N. E. All day busy in Treas. office receiving money &c&c. 
By letter from Mrs. N. heard that Dr. Nott would be at home to.night. Went to the R. R. depot where heard that when the western train left Albany the Hudson River R. R. ferry boat was in mid-river fast in the ice with Dr. & Mrs. and other passengers on board. It is likely therefore that they will be over in the 12 o'clock train tonight. 

7 o'clock P. M. called with wife upon Mrs. and Prof. Joy who are boarding at Given's Hotel. 
Sunday January 6, 1856. Severe winter day. A.M. and P.M. to Baptist Church, Rev. Mr. Day. 
Monday January 7, 1856. Weather ditto. Towards evening milder with signs of a storm. All day in Treas. office. Prof. Joy takes the Juniors in Chemistry, which I have for many years taught, thus relieving me for a time at least of a part of my heavy double duties. Prof. Joy and wife to tea this evening. 
Tues. January 8, 1856. Cold! Oh how cold. Thermometer at -10 á and no prospect of any relenting. As yet I have no recitation since giving up my Chem. Class to Prof. Joy. In a few days shall take the Sophs. or Fresh. in Algebra. 
Wednesday January 9, 1856. No change in the weather for the better: dismal, cold, &c. Yesterday Charle~ H. Tomlinson, son of Judge Tomlinson, died in this city. He was a graduate of Un. Coll., studied law but never practiced, and lived a life of leisure with his aged parents. His disease was paralysis and ulcer, very malignant and exhausting. Th us the Judge has lived to see all his children depart before him. Bp. H. Potter's children are his grandchildren; besides, Chas. leaves a little boy and girl. 
Thursday January 10, 1856. Cold blustering day, wind at all points of the compass but never from a warm quarter. Wonderful stories of snow storms and "cold snaps" are told by all the papers from Nova Scotia to Washington. The storm, however, did not reach far inland. 
On Monday I am to take the Sophs. (in Algebra), divided into two parts. Had a long conversation with ----"----on various matters. 
1. About Prof. j's taking the rec[itation] in Chem. which, as it has seemed like supplanting myself without sufficient previous arrangement, he strongly asserted that it was by no action of his own, no previous arrangement, no wish of his. 2. As to the Order of the Finance Com. to sue R. W. L. for monies due for int[erest] and principal, this he thought wrong in toto, unkind, ungenerous, positively outrageous. Still, says he, "I shall pay it to prevent any trouble and then I shall entirely cease to have anything to do with the financial matters of College." &c&c. 
I. Do you think I had better remain Treasurer of College? He. By all means, for altho' you have annoyed me in many 
1339
, I 
ways, I think you have erred on the right side. 
I. But some of your friends in the Board, you say, were much displeased with my acts. I should not like to remain in this office if dissatisfaction to any considerable degree were entertained by them. 
He. Oh! that need have no influence with you. I can set matters all right with them. I can influence them. 
What a history would the entire life of some men make! Thoughts, feelings, motives and words all written! How black a catalogue! How ill would they compare together! How short would they come of the strictness of God's holy law! 
Friday January 11, 1856. During the week the ladies of the Baptist Church have held a fair, evenings in the meeting house, to raise money for finishing it. All things considered this is a questionable mode of raising money for such purposes, and yet it has hitherto been so successful that many ch[urches] adopt it and practice it and defend it. Within a few weeks the 2d. Dutch and Methodist Chh. will also do the same. 
Saturday January 12, 1856. After a couple of weeks of severe cold weather it yeilds a little altho' scarcely enough to cause water to drop from the e[a]ves. Sleighing is exellent and well-improved. 
Sunday January 13, 1856. A little more snow today. To Bapt. Ch. Rev. Mr. Day. Read "Maria Cheeseman, the little candy girl" to the children at home. 
Monday January 14, 1856. All the sriow that has fallen at various times (and it has not been a small matter) now lies upon the ground --all of 12 to 15 in. on a level. In many places it is much drifted. To the north the depth increases to 3 and 4 ft. on a level. Rumors of another sad accident upon the Hudson River .R. Road, the fall of the Spuyten Duyvel Creek Bridge with two engines and train. Began to.day my Algebra recitation with the Sophomore Class, about SO in number, in two parts: one at 10 to 11, the other fr. 11. to 12, in No. 7, the old Senior Chapel. Commenced with Article 149, Davies Bourdon, ed[ition] of 1855. 
Tuesday January 15, 856. Fine mild winter weather. All my leisure time out of rec. room, busy making balance of acc'ts. for the approaching meeting of the Trustees on the last Tues. of this month. 
Attended a meeting of the Trustees and Building Committee of the Baptist Ch. in the church, to confer about the expediency of finishing the meeting house. Plans were produced for seating it, pulpit etc. and estimates were made of the cost, which was as follows: seats, pulpit, and all the carpenter's work 1,250, carpets 200, painting 200, frescoing the walls 200, bell say 500: $2350 or say $2500. 

The plans were accepted and the same are to be submitted to the Church for sanction. It was thought best by some to commence at once when $800 was raised by subscription; by others when $800 of subscription and "fair money" is made. The question of raising the money was then discussed, and it was generally thought that 8 or 10 individuals must pay the greater part of the expense. Present Rev. Mr. Day, and Messrs. Wemple, H. Champion, John Dealtry, Peter Vedder, D. M. Chadray and J. Pearson. 
Wednesday, January 16, 1856. Bright lovely day. Sleighs are flying in all directions. ----"----is to Albany again for the purpose of presenting to the Legislature a bill to enable the Trustees to tie up their real estate in perpetuity so that for all time it may never be alienated or mortgaged, a plan which meets w_ith very decided oppo.sition from many of the friends of the College. Made out balance of books today showing a net gain of income above expenditure for six mos. of $3881.80. This result however is due cheifly to the fact that it includes the term bills of two terms of the year out of three. 
Thursday January 1 7, 1856. The discussion on slavery, which originated from a sermon preached by Rev. Horace Day last Thanksgiving Day, is still kept up by the various writers without any seeming desire of flagging. Laicus (Dr. Tayler Lewis) takes the slavery side, Elihu Platt Potter Esq. opposes. Index (Rev. Mr. Seelye) d[itt]o has ceased. Clericus (Rev. Mr. Bates) d[itt]o. Abner S. S. Riggs Esqr. d[itt]o. Some others occasionally fall in, and Dr. Lewis in his last goes by the name of Politicus. 
All pro-slavery men build much upon the Bible; they consider it their sheet anchor, especially the Old Testament. It is a dangerous weapon to use in so bad a cause and the effects [ ofj such a use are doubtless to render many strong Abolitionists skeptical in regard to the binding authority of the Book. When they see Doctors of Divinity, learned and orthodox, attempt to uphold so gigantic a system of wrong and outrage by the law of God, their sense of justice and right rebels against not the argument alone, but the Bible also, and they say if it sustains such an evil I cannot believe in it, if our church[es] believe [and] preach such doctrines they cannot be true churches and I want nothing to do with them. Skepticism and infidelity are the natural offspring of such superficial reasoning in the mind not well grounded in the true principles of Christianity. Do the teachings of Jesus favor slavery? Rather, does not the whole spirit of his doctrines inculcate the opposite opinions and actions? 
Friday January 18, 1856. The conduct of our H[ouse of] Repre.sentatives at Washington, in spite of the censures of the press and public opinion as "boys' play" and undignified, has a deep and pregnant meaning. Doubtless the country would be quite as well off by their stay[ing] at home when, in session, but little is done save political haranguing and president-making. The present contest, however, partakes so much of a revolutionary character that we can not but loose somewhat of our prestige in the sight of other nations. Above and far beyond all this, the contest is a serious one inasmuch as it is the first serious opposition that the North has of late made to the universal dominion of the black power of Slavery. We have reason to fear the result because the South in all former occasions has gained her points. Heaven prosper the right. 
Saturday January 19, 1856. From mild the weather has again become cold and severe. This P. M. at a small dinner party at Prof. Jacksons where, besides his own family, were assembled Profs. Foster, Gillespie, Joy, Peissner and self. 
Sunday January 20, 1856. Severe cold weather. To Baptist Church, Rev. Mr. Day. 
Monday January 21, 1856. Weather ditto. Busy preparing report for Trustees' meeting tomorrow altho' there is no expectation of a quorum. 
Tuesday January 22, 1956. Weather ditto. At the Trustees' meeting today but two persons were present, viz. Chancellor Walworth and Rev. Dr. Backus. Dr. Nott being indisposed did not attend. Nothing was done, of course, and in fact there was not much to be done. 
Wednesday January 23, 1856. The great question of the day in Ch[urch] and State is Slavery. Its extension is deprecated by one party and urged or not opposed by another, the former as yet new and undisciplined and little stimulated by pecuniary interests is hardly a match for the latter which is old and united. From the one, political renegades are frequent when self-interest prompts; from the other, the cohesive power of money never allows a partizan to escape. Will this country ever shake off this deadly incubus? at least will it ever confine the evil within territorial limits and disallow its extension? Aid may come from on high for the humble when human power fails. Thursday January 24, 1856. The other great leading question at the North is Temperance or rather Total Abstinence by compulsory laws. Will this succeed? Many friends dispair and the liquor men take courage and flourish. This dreadful vice, in spite of all efforts, seems to defy law and gospel. It may be lessened but is by no means killed. A numerous army of young recruits is marshalling for the drunkards army. 

Friday January 25, 1856. A more uniformly severe winter we have not had these 20 yrs. No snow has been lost these six weeks; the usu.al January thaw is omitted; ice is of uncommon thickness on our waters and no indications presage that we shall not have another month like the last. 
Saturday January 26, 1856. Geological Hall progresses slowly to.wards completion; cold weather and short days are not favorable. The college session progresses favorably. No noteworthy events have occured. The two matters which cheifly occupy the gossip of the Faculty are the Analytic Laboratory and the Bill before the Legislature to grant our Trustees the power of deeding certain College property to Pres. Nott. The Laboratory was endowed with $4000 on May 1. '55. $3000 was sent to Prof. Joy, the Trustees' Agent in Europe, to purchase chem[icals] and apparatus, with $1000 being reserved for freight and fitting up. The bills presented for Chem. now amt. to considerably more than $3,000 and, by sending the packages by steamers instead of sailing vessels, the freight will reach $1300 to $1500, thus the whole $4000 granted is more than used up and nothing is left for fitting up the Lab[oratory]. This seriously embarrasses all concerned. $2,000 more is needed and no one sees the source from whence it is to come. 2dly. The Bill before mentioned had reached a third reading when all at once it was sent back to the committee for some purpose, nobody knows what. On inquiry it turns out that certain gentlemen of the Trustees, not liking the project nor the provisions of the bill, interposed to stop its passage. This has made an unpleasant sensation among the friends of the Bill and its originator. 
Sunday January 27, 1856. Attended ch. at Pres. Ch., Rev. Dr. Backus. A good sermon. Our Schen. clergyman are judicious, learned and good 

men but not particularly noted for eloquence. This is an article however not absolutely necessary to the success of a church or to the progress of true religion. 
Monday January 28, 1856. The long anti-slavery discussion in our newspapers has at length terminated, perhaps to the satisfaction probably of both sides. Conviction on this subject, it would seem, is of slow growth; most persons have already made up their minds for or against slavery and nothing but such outrageous acts as those of Kansas or such insane pretensions as southern mad caps make are likely to move the people. 
Tuesday January 29, 1856. My two classes in higher Algebra with all the office áand other business is quite as much as one desires to do. Preparation for Algebra recitations, selecting and solving examples, occupies all my evenings. Next summer, when I shall have the Library added to other burthens, some of my duties must necessarily be performed by others. 
Wednesday January 30, 1856. This evening had a long and as usual painful discussion with ----"----on certain financial matters. The drift of the matter was this. One yrs lnt[erest] on a certain mort[gage] (RWLs) has been a long time due but denied both by the mortgagor and by ----"----, who are together interested in certain money transactions, this among the rest. The lots mortgaged have just been sold but the purchasers will not pay the purchase money without the interest on the mortgage ls paid down to the date of the deed. A receipt from the Treas. of Un. College therefore is indispensable. How to obtain it without paying the interest in question? ----"----offered me his note for it [or] his check, both of which I could not take as cash and finally after much haggling, he came to the point and paid the money or its equivalent. 
Thursday January 31, 1856. Pay day tomorrow. Today preparing checks, money &c. for salaries. 
Friday February 1, 1856. Payed off officers salaries quite com.fortably. Long talk today with Prof. Jackson in relation [to] Anal. Laboratory and the Bill of ----"----'s in the Legislature. We agreed that it was necessary the Laboratory should be opened, at least in a small way, and that we would do all in our power to forward the matter with the Trustees. In relation to the Bill on which ----"---.has set his heart very much, and the stoppage of which in its passage gives him much pain J[ackson] says and perhaps very truly, it is time now that both parties should come together, make a compromise. It will never do for Un. College to be ground between contending fac.tions. Not at all will it be proper for a quarrel to break [out] in the family among the Faculty &c&c. 

Saturday February 2, 1856. Talk, talk, talk! all day with one and another. 1st. with W. M. G[illett] on matters pertaining to the Laboratory &c&c. 2d. with Prof. [Newma]n, again as yesterday. 3d., an hour or two with Prof. Joy examining his bills for app[aratus] and chem[icals] &c&c. And 4th., at 10 o'clock at night with ----"----on the same subject as 3 days ago --the mortgage of R.W.L. The latter has delivered two checks for $3,150 to pay interest on his mortgages held by U. C. These he carried to the Bank for collection. Tonight 
R.W.L. telegraphs that the money will not be paid unless the Treasurers Receipt be sent on Monday. It will never do for the checks to come back unpaid, hence ---"---'s trepidation. He wants to use all the money himself. He sends for me to give the receipts. I deny unless the money comes; again he offers his check, &c&c. It will never do and after much beating about the bush, it is agreed that I shall receipt for one of the mortgages and receive a transfer of the money, $1700, in the Bank. to J. P., Treasurer. The receipts must go to Albany tomorrow. 
Sunday February 33, 1856. A very cold windy day. To Bapt. Ch. and heard Mr. Day. 
Mr. Gilbert went to Albany today by private conveyance to carry the receipts spoken of yesterday, from whence they go tomorrow morning to N. Y. by Express. 
Monday February 4, 1856. An unprecedented winter, for constant cold, snow and intensity. The whole country suffers alike even so far south as the Gulph of Mexico. The Mississlpi is frozen almost its whole length, the Potomac at Washington, harbors hitherto open, lakes and ponds. The railroads are obstructed as much as the rivers, and scarcely a train is up to time; iron and steel are no match for intense cold and driving snows. 
Tuesday Febrary 5, 1856. Geol. Hall is nearly done, except the cases for books and minerals, which will cost well on to $1000. more. Heartily glad shall I be when the whole affair is complete. To build for ones' self to please ones' self alone is easy, but to build for others with many critics and fault-finders always at hand is neither easy nor agreeable. In our little comunity on College Hill what is one man's business is every one's; to please all is impossible, to offend some is unavoidable. 

Wednesday February 6, 1856. The state of feeling among the Higher Powers of U. C. is anything but pleasant or promising. The breach widens, if anything, and even those who were supposed to concur in all things differ in toto and are receding more and more. Pity that 'tis so! The entire estrangement is based upon certain financial matters, which the one desires to shape according to his views whilst the rest are determined to have otherwise. In the mutual jealo[u]sies and criminations, as agent of the Trustees I cannot fail to suffer however much I may desire to steer clear. The result is hardly to be anticipated, altho' it would be nothing strange if someone should resign within a few months. 
Thursday February 7, 1856. Whilst therefore heart-burnings arise, the numbers in College increase and demand greater facilities for instruction. Recitation rooms and Tutors ar.e urgently needed; the Analytic Laboratory is at a stand-still, all the appropriation and more having been spent. In fine, we have good prospects for students but no money or not enough to meet our necessary v:ants; we have no immediate prospect for more; we have nothing or next to nothing which can be converted into money; our debt of $15,000 is a heavy one for a poor college and must be paid. The term bills are the only reliance of the Trustees for income and unfortunately these are so poorly, scandalously mismanaged and frittered away as to yeild far less than many good boys and girls schools. Reform is needed here and must sooner or later come. 
Friday February 8, 1856. Politics and the hard winter furnish topics for general gossip at this season and church fairs are the cheif amusement of our own citizens. They are an evil which, it is to be hoped, public opinion will not much longer tolerate. Eighteen yrs. ago I attended one but never a one since. 
Saturday February 9, 1856. At 8 1/2 o'clock started for Troy; reached West Troy at 10 o'clock after one break down of the locomotive. Received $443. 7 5 of lease money from the Bank and crossed to Troy where arrived 5 minutes too late for the train west for Schen. Wandered abt. town for some hours, made some purchases, and at 5 .40 started for home. 

Sunday February 10, 1856. A. M. at Bapt. ch., Rev. Mr. Day. P. M. at Pres. Ch., Rev. Dr. Backus. 
Monday February 11, 1856. Promising signs for a thaw this evening; wind cold and raw from the south. 
Tuesday February 12, 1856. Warm in the morning; before night high wind from the north, cold and biting.-1.51 P.M. to Albany on business of College and back at 7 o'clock. 
Wednesday February 13, 1856. One of the coldest days of the season with thermometer 12 á below zero. 
Thursday February 14, 1856. The Union School of this city is now is full operation with 20 teachers and 1300 scholars. This result has astonished both friends and foes of the scheme. All opposition is hushed and nothing in the city is more popular. Children cry to go and parents appreciate their motives and their advantages. 
Friday February 15, 1856. In all little places like Schenectady, and great ones too I suppose, a furor breaks out periodically for some new and exciting pursuit or amusement. Sometimes it is odd fellowship lodges, engine companies, balls, or Know Nothing clubs. At this present "Dorp" is taken with the military fever. A new company appears as often as the tailors can get their new coats done. Continental Companies are most in fashion and next Dutch companies. Even the boys of the city --little boys, I mean --imitate their elders. 
Saturday February 16, 1856. In addition to the above, the Schenectadians have adopted church fairs as their winter amusement. Three have been held of at least a week each, and I suppose not less than $2000 raised by them. This holy dissipation is really degenerated into a silly, not to say worse, farce which even the goodness [ofJ the object cannot elevate into respectability and propriety. 
Sunday February 17, 1856. In morning to Baptist Church. In P. M. to Pres. Ch. , Dr. B. 
Monday February 18, 1856. Once a week we are now having lectures on education Tuesday evenings. The following have dis.discoursed thus far: Rev. Mr. Seelye, Rev. Prof. Newman, Prof. T. Lewis, and tomorrow Prof. L. P. Hickok. These are intended as an additional incentive to proper notions and actions on the part of the citizens towards education and our schools. 
Tuesday February 19, 1856. Speaking of our Union School, it has accomplished what such institutions have usually done in other places, closed all the private schools in the city. All, both great and small, now go to one place, save a few who occupy the White Street Schoolhouse. 
Wednesday February 20, 1856. One of the most peculiar features of the 2d. Dutch Ch. fair held last week was a collection of old and new family portraits gathered from the citizens of this city. It is said to have been an interesting collection calling up the well-known but now almost forgotten features of the Worthies of "Dorp." Another unheard-of trait in this same exhibition was the daily supper or tea provided for some 50 or 60 persons at so much a head. Both these shows might be seen in the yet unfinished church, corner of Liberty and Jay streets for one shilling! 
Thursday February 21, 1856. Weather relents somewhat. The snow softens in the middle of the day but shows little signs of leaving us. Many rumors and much gossip are ripe in our little circle on College, thus: ----"----is head and ears under, debts and notes for himself and others hang over him to a frightfull [measure?] and if by hook and crook he clears himself, it will only be by the skin of his teeth, leaving little property or,Jnothing [of] any value. C[rane] & E[ly] are said to be involved by him and are now fluttering in the wind, fearful of the impending calamity. Whether all this be true or only half of it, what a spectacle for a man in his office and of his office! Would it not be called imbecility in any other man thus to coquet with fortune and rashly hazard all upon the wildest of all possible speculations 
Friday February 22, 1856. ----"----'s favorite project before the Legislature is also blocked and hindered of consummation, 'tis said, by certain opposing Trustees. Here again arises another source of gossip for some and of soarness on the part of him injured. Vph. also opposes the thing strongly, not secretly, however, but to his face. No man opposes----"----' s plans and retains his good opinion; he is not vindictive but he coolly draws off and uses him no more. I have been long since stricken out [of] his books, no more to return. There never was a more memorable instance of the ruling passion, strong even in extreme old age as it doubtless will be to death. 

Saturday February 23, 1856. Birthday, when I am 43, reminding me that my life wanes and the years of it are flitting away. A long talk with Prof. Joy on his acc'ts. as agent of the college to buy chem. and app(aratus] for the Laboratory. An estimable, amiable, man but how unfit for business; all is at loose ends. What should have cost 3000$ or at most not above $3500 will am't to $5000 or more: counting salary, bills, and freight, and our chemicals and apparatus for the Laboratory will come to $7000. Our main difference arises from his placing the value of the German florin 3 or 4 cts. higher than the commercial value as ascertained in N. Y., also from my declining to allow one bill of &c&ceras, in a lump without items, dates, &c,. 
Sunday February 24, 1856. Winter gradually gives way to the lengthening day, altho no-rapid thaw has taken place during the whole winter. To church --Baptist in A.M., Presbyterian in P.M. and 
1st Dutch in the evening. Heard a converted Jew, Rev. Mr. Betelheim in the P.M. and evening. He has lately returned from a 9 years resi.idence in Loo-choo Island as a missionary. Hi~ account of his mission is of interest and shows great tact for a difficult undertaking. 
Monday February 25, 1856. Geological Hall may be considered as finished at a cost of say $9,500. The carpenters are now at work upon the cases for minerals and books, which will cost somewhat less than $1000. The Engineering rooms in North Collonnade are at last put in good order, with cases for the Olivier Models, apparatus etc .. The former are really wonders of ingenuity and skill, the envy of all scientific men who see them. This is the third set in the world --a second being in Paris and a third in Madrid. 
Tuesday February 26, 1856. Fine moderate day. A new project is now set on foot by ----"----to enable him to raise money by which to relieve his present necessities. It is to transfer the $90,000 of mortgages owned by College from the "Cove property" to the "Hunter Point"; by doing this, the former may be made available at once for his purposes. It is probable the Fin. Com. will agree to the proposition, if on examination the latter property is found fully safe. 
Wednesday February 27, 1856. Every day witnesses the softening and consolidating of the snow, nevertheless none of it [is] lost, the whole winter's fall still lays upon the ground. The cases for books and minerals in Geological Hall have now been commenced some days: the plan is one made by myself after examining the libraries of New York and New Haven. The room is 47 x 54 and 15 ft. high. There will be 4 alcoves on a side made by cases reaching from floor to ceiling with a Ught gallery midway. 

[[DRAWINGHERE] 
This is a plan of the book (or lower) cases with the gallery. The upper 
( or mineral) cases stand upon these and against the wall leaving 
room for the gallery in front. 
Thursday February 28, 1856. When I last saw Grandfather Libby at Allenstown, N. H., I took qown the following notes of his 4 cruises on ships (privateers) in the Revolutionary War. 
He served sometime at the commencement of the war on land in the N. H. regiment. Having marched from "No 4" (Charlestown, N.H.) across the country to Ticonderoga where he remained till Burgoyne's march down from Canada to attack the colonies. He retreated with the Am. army to Saratoga and was there at the surrender of Burgoyne. His first cruise was upon a schooner called the "True Blue" from Newburyport, Lawrence Furlong, Capt., an Irishman. She carried 8 guns, 6-pounders, and 30 men. Twenty-two hours after going out, was taken off Cape Sable. Had tremendous 
N.W. gale, could'nt carry top-sails, in 5 fathoms water when taken; saw two frigates (English) Venus and Polly, 36 guns ea[ch]. 
"The officer says to Furlong, 'Captain, didnt you heave the lead?' 'No.' 'If you hadnt hove to as you did, we should have gone and left you, for we have but 5 fathoms of water.' 
"The red sand washed into our scuppers [water?] was so shoal. Fifteen of us went aboard the Polly and 1 S aboard the Venus. We cruised 4 weeks in Jan. and Feb. from Cape Sables to Cape[?]. Had to lay in the hold on cables, thought I should freeze to death; lost all my clothes. Fore we went out in the 'True Blue,' went round to Casco to get hands and got my feet frozen. We were taken into Newport by our captors and put on board prison ship. Was there till last of May and then exchanged by cartel. Bill Davis, Mr. Webster, Tom Foy were carried to Norwalk whence we travelled on foot home to Rye N. H. 
"After being home a short time I went out in the Hornet from Portsmouth, a schooner having 1 six-pounder and 8 swivels. Capt. Peverly. She was manned with about 30 men. Went down off Halifax, took two schooners from the W. Indies. The first time we fired our Bow Chaser, the muzzle burst. Tom Wallace wanted to fire the broken Bow Chaser again. Capt. said, 'No.' Tom insisted. 'Well, fire away then.' All hands went below and Tom put a ball between the schooner's masts and she hove to. The 2d schooner had waist cloths with guns painted upon them. I had for my part of the booty 16 ths. [?] cotton, 100 lbs. sugar, and $800 continental money which depreciated so much that I got only SOcts. for $100. 

"I next served on board the "Sullivan," a ship of 20 guns, Capt. Darling, sailed from Portsmouth, gone 3 months; cruised among the 
W. I. Islands and came round by the Banks of Newfoundland, then we had a tremendous gale. Hove to 2 days and nigh ts and let her drive under bare poles, 4 hands at the wheels. We scud before it for two days, took one ship from the W.I. islands." 
The last cruise he made was in the Arnold, Capt. Brown, from Portsmouth or Newburyport, I presume. On this cruise, the particulars of which I have lost, he was taken and carried into Charlestown, S. C. while held by the British, and there put on board prisonship. From thence with a few others he escaped by night in a boat, rowed up the Cooper River and by a circuitous route arrived at the French lines, whence the party were carried by Lafayette with his body guard to the camp of the Am. Gen. Green (?) and hospita.bly entertained. From thence he travelled all the way home again to Rye,N.H. . 
This is believed to have been his last cruise. He dwelt many years at Rye as a fisherman and farmer and finally settled at Chichester as a farmer. He was man of great ingenuity; he made his own families' shoes and boots, all the wooden ware of the family -.tubs, pails, "firkins," "naggins," "keelers" &c. and his own farming implements. He was also a neat and careful farmer, the pattern and envy in this respect of his neighbors. In stature he was above the common height, as were all his children, whereas my grandmother, who was a Seavy, was below the ordinary stature. 
Friday February 29, 1856. Of the so-called Religious Newspapers published in this state, the N. Y. Observer claims to take the pre.cedence in size, patronage and talent. In the latter respect there are doubtless many who question the truth of this claim. It affects to be eminently conservative and orthodox: the champion of order, decency and ancient customs. I regard its spirit, however, as like a certain drink in England: a mixture of the strong and weak called '"alf and 'alf." On certain great questions you never know where to find it except by inference. It attacks the Mormons on account of polygamy and the Catholics for their bigoted superstition, but toutches lightly upon slavery. Except when some choice bit is thrown it, showing how beautifully religion flourishes among the slaves or how kind the master is to his servants (not slaves), you scarce ever 
13:;-1 
read a paragraph on its huge pages upon this momentous subject. Without looking at its caption one would suppose he was reading an eminently judicious and prudent journal printed south of [the] M[ason] and D[ixon's line. 
Saturday March 1, 1856. Of course a northern journal which speaks softly and apologetically of this stupendous evil can be ranked only with its upholders. I consider the N. Y. Observer as the most influential pro-slavery journal in this country, North or South, ranking far above the N. Y. Herald and Journal of Commerce. 
Sunday March 2, 1856. While on the subject of religious newspapers it may be well to mention one or two others with which I am somewhat acquainted. The Independent is Congregational, as the Observer is Presbyterian (O[ld] S[tyle] ). It is of recenter date but has grown vigorously till it rivals in popularity and subscribers much older papers. No journal of the kind is thought to have a more talented corps of writers. Its articles are more vigorous, racy, and tart than most of its compeers. On the subject of slavery it is the converse of the Observer, dealing heavy blows to the monster always and everywhere. 
Monday March 3, 1856. One of two things is true: either American slavery, with all its abominations, is right and just, or most of the leading politicians (not statesmen) are hollow-hearted, trickling, dishonest. 
Where is the man of mark whose conscience is stronger than his desire of office and present emolument! Or is it really true that all these northern men in and out of Congress who continually cry to the southern idol, "Great is Diana of the Ephesians!" really believe in their hearts that all the fearful-encroachments of the black power is to be hailed as the progress of the true democracy and republican government! 
Tuesday March 4, 1856. Again leaving the politicial and taking a religious view of slavery, can it be possible that all those Doctors of Theology who quote and argue from the Bible for the lawfulness and morality of this institution are decieving themselves and their readers? Alas for the fallibility of human judgement and honesty! One half of the people of these United States, learned and unlearned, honest and dishonest, are pitted against each other on a question more momentous than ever before agit[at]ed the country --a question one would think that carried conviction with it without argument; and yet where is the truth? Is she divided? In the meantime the evil grows with its years; agitation increases with its growth; the foul spirit altho' layed will not cease its hideous presence. Well may good men almost dispair when they plainly see that freedom and slavery cannot exist together. 

Wednesday March 5, 1856. Winter is as heavy and dreary as in the middle of January. Snow storms and winds are frequent and the earth is more deeply covered than at any time since Christmas. 
Nothing has given me more trouble for months than the adjustment of the Analytical Laboratory bills and expenditures for chemicals and apparatus. Everything has been done in an unbusiness-[like] manner: payments without vouchers, instructions exceeded, carelessness, improvidence. 
Thursday March 6, 1856. An absorbing question in the Legislature at Albany is "Bridge or No Bridge" across the Hudson. This is seen to [be] a necessary link in the great Central Route to New York City and yet many interests are opposed to it. It has been talked of for years; this year it is thought the bill will pass. 
In Congress it is Kansas and President-making, nothing more nor less. 
Friday March 7, 1856. The usual examination for deficiencies in studies was held this evening; kept away by reason of a cold &c. College Exam'ns are such shams that really it is a task for an honest man to endure them. Why not do better, then, and make them what they should [be]? Why not, sure enough? This is easier asked than done. A Frenchman wants more liberty for his person, for the press. All Frenchmen do. Why dont they take it then? Louis Nap[oleon] wont let them have it. Same with us. 
Saturday March 8, 1856. As cold, blustering day as we have had for a month. Not a sign of spring --altho' we have entered the 1st month of it. 
Finished, finally I hope, a statement of An. Laboratory acc'ts for the consideration of Finance Committee. 
Sunday March 9, 1856. Sick with a cold --in house all day. A dread.ful winters day penetrating every corner. 
Monday March 10, 1856. American colleges attempt too much. They aspire to become universities; they descend to the duties and acts of 
/3f3 
a boy's boarding school. They pretend to educate the boy wholly: physically, mentally, religiously and in manners. They build lodging and boarding houses; they appoint proctors, tutors, and professors and make it their duty to watch over the manners and morals of their pupils, to become a corps of police officers and censors of morals; they build lecture rooms and require them to make their pupils scholars and proficients. They attempt an impossibility. A good Professor and a good police officer are seldom combined. I have seldom ... 
Tuesday March 11, 1856 .... or never seen such a thing in all my experience. He feels himself belittled by peeping about young men's rooms for signs of remissness and mischeif; he thinks his time might be more honorably, profitably and agreeably spent in his own study. The whole influence of a Faculty upon a body of young men, according to my experience, is not worth a straw and the sooner the hypocritical pretence is known, the better it will be for community. Young men do pretty much as they please in College as elsewhere, and, if exellent fathers and pious mothers think because the renowned Doctor is President of a college that on that account their son will be safe under his influence, they lamentably misapprehend 
the facts in the case. It is sad to see the wrecks ... 
Wednesday March 12, 1856 .... made in.our colleges by the mistaken policy so rife. Every thriving town, each religious denomination must have a college in each state. To start the machine it requires but $50000: $100,000 will put it in splendid operation! An Am. College consists simply of a large brick boarding and lodging hall, with a small church attached called "the Chapel." If these two buildings do not exhaust the cash, a fine President's house is added and perhaps Professors' also. The College is now finely under way; true it has no library and apparatus, its professors are meek men living on slender salaries, its attractions are few for one thirsting for intellectual knowledge; competition with its neighbors diminish[es] its numbers. What, then, is it not a college! Behold its fine buildings! I am disgusted with the whole sham and pretence! 
Thursday March 13, 1856. As the term draws near a close, the usual inquiries are made ten times a day, "When shall we get off?" "When will examination close?" Now a couple of young neighboring clergymen are written to as examiners(?), who are expected to fill a couple of chairs in the recitation room and say nothing. One hour (nothing more) is allowed to put each class thro' each study. One question is asked each individual; one line of Greek is translated. 

The bell rings and all off to another play of the same kind. 
Friday March 14, 1856. There is but one single subject of prevail.ing interest talked of among the faculty and that: "How shall the Anal. Laboratory be set a going? " U. C. is as poor as a plucked client; she is like a pauper spendthrift who awaits the death of a hale father; rich in prospect, poor in fact. And in the midst of our poverty we have aimed to rival our equals and betters by starting an expensive project without counting the cost; or having counted the cost we find ourselves most unwisely, most unwillingly, dragged into debt. We have an elephant upon our hands and know not what to do with it. We have spent $4,000; now our agent turns around and says, give me $4,000 more or all you have is useless. We wake as from a disagreeable dream and scarce believe we are not in a trance to hear such news. The Trustees are at their wits ends and know not what to do. 
Saturday March 15, 1856. Oh! this wonderful never-ending winter runs away into Spring, still crowned with hoary locks: and paralyzing us with his chilly breath. His icy fingers are felt every where, at all times; the rivers are still bound in his icy fetters. How his fiery northern steeds rush down from the ice fields of the polar regions and trample all beneath their frozen feet! A swelling bud or a green leaf or the pattering rain will be most welcome again --thrice welcome on account of this long sleep of nature. 
Sunday March 16, 1856. Religious feeling and religious people have altogether run to church fairs this winter. They have taken the place of continued meetings and revivals. The change is a doubtful one, and has hardly benefltted our churches. The follies of a fair are not forgotten in six months. 
Monday March 17, 1856. On the 25th and 26th, it is resolved (by the President) that our examinations(?) shall be held, and I have written by his order for Rev. David Tully and Rev. Ch. H. Taylor, one of Ballston Spa and the other of Ballston Center, to be present as examiners. The only proper method of holding these examinations is by writing. Each young man, having his task assigned, a limited time allowed and without dictionaries or text books, an exercise in writing be produced on the subject assigned. These should be an occasion of sifting and winnowing of the chaff from the grain. The sooner the axe is laid to root of some of our old abuses and new shoots start forth, the better. 

Tuesday, March 18, 1856. Careful, systematised charity is an ex.cellent virtue; otherwise, it is without grace and fragrance. To give indiscriminately, either to be rid of an annoyance or because one can not say no, is a most slovenly, unrequiting act. It can never meet the commendation [of] our heavenly father or of our own consciences. Such is our vicious method of dispensing our so called Charity Fund. Without forethought, examination, or scrutiny, it is thrown out to every beggar who is brazen enough to ask for it, whether needy or full. The deserving poor do not get enough; the undeserving get too much --all because of our negligence and culpable remissness. 
Wednesday March 19, 1856. No work is more needed than a book on what may be called "college economy," giving for our younger Am. Colleges such facts and instructions as the experiences of older institutions can well afford. It should take a wide range and treat of all the material interests of these monasteries. I say "monasteries" for they are such, and I would that another Jienry (VIII) would arise and utterly suppress this wicked feature of them. Our Colleges cannot arise and shake themselves like strong men and giants, till this mill.stone is hurled into the seas. 
Thursday March 20, 1856. Life is too short to learn everything in -.a true adage but too seldom regarded by teachers and pupils. With us at U. C. it is a standing rule of action that every Professor is fit for every place that happens to be vacant and capable of teaching every thing on the course of study. The whole round of sciences and arts has been professed by some of us. ----" ----does not hesitate to draft the first man he meets when an opening occurs in the ranks, and it is quite laughable, yet too true, to see the Prof. of Latin teaching land surveying and logic, and a tutor in Mathematics carrying thro' a class in Rhetoric. No surer way was ever devised to spoil a good professor. 
Friday March 21, 1856. The great battle between freedom and slavery is fought with mutual fierceness and acrimony. Kansas is the prize, and both parties seem animated with equal determination to conquer and possess that goodly land. 
It is melancholy to witness the necessity for such a contest. Is there not light enough in this latter day to shame the advocates of a dark despotism into decency and reason? Shall the preaching of a gospel for 1800 years not elevate our morals and practice above the debasing sin of Negro Slavery? 

Saturday March 22, 1856. Winter of course yields something of its severity, but still holds sway over spring. The roads were never worse; in fact the city is blockaded with formidable snowbanks on all sides, almost forbidding country people access to our markets. 
Sunday March 23, 1856. The Baptist Church have resolved to finish their house of worship, and the work of seating, painting, etc. is going on briskly. The first of June will see it ready for dedication. The Second Dutch Ch., corner of Jay and Liberty Streets, is also going on to completion with commendable speed. 
Monday March 24, 1856. Last Friday evening at a Faculty meeting convened in the Treasurer's office, the order of Examination for to.day and tomorrow was arranged and ordered published. The roll of students was read over and the conduct and studiousness of each were canvassed, which all amounts to nothing. 
The cheif end of our College government is to keep young men from open rebellion and scandalous acts; everything bends to this one idea. He may be lazy and it is overlooked if only the student be quiet. Our greatest boast is that we never had a row big enough to get into the newspapers. Humbol[d]t as an unsuccessful police officer would be cast out of Un. Coll. as Satan. All sins are pardoned here but that of unpopularity with the students, and when this unlucky fault occurs, the Professor is blamed and not the culprit. One definition of a college is this: a successful police establishment where the constables contrive to have no riots by never enforcing any law that crosses human frailty. 
Tuesday March 25 , 1856. The two gentlemen present today as examiners are Rev. David Tully from Ballston Spa, and Rev. Chas. H. Taylor of Ballston Centre. Yesterday the freshmen and sophomores were put through at R.R. speed on a descending grade. Today the Seniors and Juniors are ditto, and tomorrow morning will see College dissected. Running to and fro, trying to get a meeting of Res. Trustees for important business but unsuccessful. 
Wednesday March 26, 1856. Meeting of the Res. Trustees at Judge P's office at 2 o'clock P. M. --adjourned to Albany tomorrow where it is expected a fuller meeting may be had. The object of this meeting is cheifly to determine whether it is best to borrow more money and, if so, how much, to put the Laboratory in working order. By exceeding the limit of expenditure in this department and by shipping the wares in steam instead of sailing vessels the $4000 appropriated to it has been already exceeded some $1600. and the farther amount needed to put it in working order is some $2000 more. To raise $3,600 in the present straitened circumstances of the College causes much feeling among both Trustees and faculty. 

Thursday March 27, 1856. Started at 8 o'clock with Dr. Nott and Judge Paige for Albany to attend Finance Committee meeting. At [?] o'clock there met in Bradford R. Woods office: Dr. Nott, Judge Paige, 
B. R. Wood, C. B. Cochrane, where after an hour's talk upon the Laboratory question, it was resolved to adjourn to meet again next Monday at 3 P.M. at the office of C. B. Cochrane, and that in the mean time the Treasurer shall see if money can be borrowed. Prof, Joy is also to be present to explain his accounts. 
At the close of the meeting Eli B. Thayer, the Kansas League agent, appeared and explained Sharp's Rifle etc. Rode home with him as far as Schenectady. He avers that there is now no farther doubt of the freedom of Kansas. Every 24 hours, he says, a company of colonists will pour into Kansas from the free States. 
Friday March 28, 1856. Cold and windy. Spent much of the day in looking over freight bills of Chem. App. with Prof. J. and determining how much more steam costs than sail. The result was as follows. The packages cost pr. steamer $12.51; by sailing vessels, $2.12 each, or say 6 to 1, which would make a difference in all of $650. 
Some feeling exists in relation to the whole business. On one side that errors in judgement and disobedience of orders have tied our hands and feet so that we hardly-know how to go forwards for want of means. On the other, that because College authorities do not say, "Well done, good and faithful servant" and hesitate to borrow $4,000 more, why they do not desire a laboratory, they do not desire the Prof. to remain. Blame is thrown upon Trustees, but no error is confessed or felt on the other. 
Saturday March 29, 1856. Wife sick, much at home during the day with her. Cold, windy, raw day. 
About town hunting up a loan of $3,000 for Analytic Laboratory. To Schen. Savings, not much encouragement --perhaps might get it in May or June. To D. M. Chadsey who knows of 1000$ to loan immediately and perhaps $3000. Home to dinner. 
Sunday March 30, 1856. Windy and cold. At home all day with sick wife. The life of Wesley is a profitable and instructive book. Southey, 

however, is the last man one would have chosen as his biographer. Being a high churchman without enthusiasm in religion he could no more sympathize with the Methodist than an Esquimau[x] could imagine the climate of [S]ahara. His facts may be reliable but his criticisms are more than doubtful. His little measuring rod could never mark Wesleys stature. They lived in different worlds and could not breath the same air, nor be nourished by the same food. It was an utter absurdity, then, for the poet laureate of England to attempt to delineate the character of the arch-Methodist and scan his motives and powers. 
Monday March 31, 1856. At two o'clock P. M. to Albany by R.R. to attend a Trustee meeting at the office of C. B. Cochrane Esq. Present; President Nott, Rev. Dr. Halley, Rev. Dr. VanVechten, Rev. Dr. Backus, 
B. R. Wood Esq., E. C. Delavan Esq., Prof. Joy and self. Made J. P. Secretary, and proceeded to business --the Analytical Laboratory. 
Prof. J. was called upon to explain his transactions relating to purchases &c. and to the differences between his bills and the Treasurer's. After some talk it was resolved to pay those bills for Chem. and App. already bought in Euro'pe and now received, amounting with freight to about $1,400. It was also resolved that the Treasurer borrow not exceeding $4000 for the payment of bills and fitting of the Laboratory. Prof. J(oy]'s own bills without vouchers were layed over till July meeting. Adjourned and home at 7 o'clock. 
Tuesday April 1, 1856. Beautiful day. Election. for city officers and free rum, much drunkenness and rioting. A great event for College Hill is to take place tomorrow, the marriage of Pro[ Peissner and Dr. Lewis' dau[ghter] Margaret. All day about office, &c. 
Wednesday April 2, 1856. Fine day. At 11 the wedding guests assembled at Prof. Lewis to attend the wedding of his daughter Margaret to Prof. Peissner. Probably 100 persons were present. The Knot was tied by Dr. Nott in a very solemn and appropriate manner: after which wedding cake and coffee and the departure of the happy pair at 2 o'clock for Philadelphia and Washington. 
Thursday April 3, 1856. Mr. Whitney, Mining Geologist of North.ampton, Professor Joy and wife to tea. The former comes by invitation of Dr. Nott to give some instructions respecting our mineral cases, also to make arrangements for classifying and putting our specimens upon the shelves. In his profession few young men stand higher in this country. His work on the mineral wealth of this 

country is a book of great interest and usefulness. Making out the usual College report to the Legislature. 
Friday April 4, 1856. No rain worth mentioning since last fall. Under the powerful and increasing sun-heat the snow is gradually melting away without our usual spring floods, which [are] yet to come. 
Yesterday or rather on Wednesday afternoon, Dr. N. and Mrs. N. left for New York by the way of Bristol, Conn. 
Saturday April 5, 1856. Fine day. With Wife to Albany at 8 1/4 o'clock A. M. To State Capitol, Library &c. and delivered college report. G. VanSantvoord, Mem[ber] of the House to be presented at the proper time. After dawdling around an hour or two, took rail for home where arrived at dinner. 
Sunday April 6, 1856. To Baptist Church A. M. and P. M. Rev. Mr. Day preached. 
Monday April 7, 1856. Beautiful day. The ice slowly moves down the Mohawk with[out] any considerable rise of the water, simply from rottenness and the growing heat of the season. A dull, rather useless day lounging and talking about the office with equally lazy visitors who waste their own time and mine, one of the banes of an office on the Hill. Prof. Joy and wife to New York this morning. 
A young man, Roy Stone, member of the Senior Class, is interesting himself about the Annals of Schenectady. Whether his endeavours will meet with encouragement among the citizens is doubtful. Literature has hitherto not been a current article here, and few of the ancient families know anything of their own or their city's history and care less. Mr. S[tone] judges that much material exists for his work. I hope it is true. My opinion had been the contrary. In a city where many could neither read nor write, one would not expect many mss. to be preserved, save title deeds and wills. 
Tuesday April; 8, 1856. These many evenings, have been searching the minutes of the Board of Trustees and copying such laws and resolutions as are of a general character. The object is to know what rules of conduct we have without any expectation of being able to follow them, because U. C. these many years, long before I knew it, has been in fact without laws or order. It has been a one-man college --as complete a despotism (rather unoffensive) as ever existed. Both Faculty and Trustees have been as powerless as children, yeilding implicit. .. 

Wednesday April 9, 1856. ...obedience as though they belonged, 
wills and intellects, to another. 
The first code of laws for College was made soon after the act of incorporation and was merely provisional --a second and more ample set was made and sanctioned by the Trustees in 1802. Their laws are in print. In 1808, a second, or rather third, series was made, by whom it does not appear [from] the minutes, and although inserted in the Book of Minutes seems never to have been passed upon by the Board or even noticed by them. The spirit of these laws [is] quite different from those of 1802. The powers of the President are much increased, his prerogatives are everywhere acknowledged over discipline, finances, and faculty, who have nothing to do but do as they are told. The same is true of all succeeding ... 
Thursday, April 10, 1856 .... resolutions. It is the President shall do this, the [ President] shall do that until every possible department, office and place is filled by him. It may in return be said that our affairs have been managed wisely. Of this. there are at least two opinions. Thus much is doubtless true generally and in U. C. in particular that when men in responsible stations are treated as children without the liberty of speech and freedom of action, dis.order and ill management must follow. 
Friday April 11, 1856. Of the books of minutes it may be said they are curiosities of bad grammar, mistakes in facts, bad spelling and haste. They look as though they had been kept by boys and composed by a freshman; they are no credit to Trustees nor secretaries. Passing over these points, another striking feature in these pages is the formidable lottery reports, financial papers, and Treasurer's statements, all of which are as complete a jumble of inextricable puzzles as ever emanated from human brain. A more complete picture of the leading mind in all this was never painted, characterized by a yearly change of plan and a consequent change of figures, self-glorification even in other men's reports, and a swallowing up of all the credit due to other men so that but one man is supposed to exist in and around U. C. by whom it lives and exists. 
Saturday April 12, 1856. The reports on the finances of Un. College are beneath contempt --boyish, false and deceptive, and it is a wonder that such a jumble of accounts and figures should have been tolerated for so many years without change or the least modifications. Never were books in a better situation (as we found 
l 3b( 
to our sorrow with legislative investigation) for substantiating 
grievous charges of fraud and imbecillity, At no one time for the first 
SO years could a correct statement be given of the exact net capital 
of the College and the cost of its property --current expenses were 
capitalised! until finally the cost of buildings and grounds (reported 
as capital) reached the enormous sum of over $325,000! 
Sunday April 13, 1856. To Presbyterian Ch. A. M. and heard Rev. M. Seelye. To d[itt]o. P. M., Dr. Backus. 
Monday April 14, 1856. After much higgling, long talks and no action, it is decided or rather permitted, to prepare 3 more recitation rooms in the North Colonnade: No 1. next to the house of Prof.. Newman; who occupies the south end of No. College: No.2 upstairs about the middle of the Colonnade and another beneath the same; the arrangement is something like this: 
[PIACE SKEfCH HERE] 
No. 1. is for Prof. Newman, No. 2. upstairs is for Prof. Jackson and has 
hitherto been used by the Theological Society, which is now 
transferred to the third story over Prof. Newman's house. 
Hudson Tuesday April 15, 1856. Started this morning at 8 o'clock A.M. for Hudson, with wife and Willie, on a visit to bro-in-law Magoun. After a couple hours' delay, started at 11 o'clock on the Hudson River R. R. and arrived at H[udson] at twelve, M. 
Hudson is an exact pattern of Schenectady in enterprise and growth. It is one of those old standstill towns of which a few are found in the state --finished long since and only kept in tolerable repair. P. M. Attended court for want of more profitable employment. Judge Harris of Albany presided. 
Wednesday April16, 1856. Fine spring weather. To court again --a profitable school for one who desires to see the worst side of human nature. In almost every respect it is a sad picture of all the worst passions. A suit originates mostly in fraud, hate or revenge on one side and is defended without Christian feelings, forgiveness or sorrow on the other. The origin is often frivolous, the consequences disastrous pecuniarily and otherwise. 
And what can be said of a profession whose object too often is to foment and urge on these strifes? The mind of a novice, in these contests between opposing counsels, is strangely moved sometimes to believe all lawyers dis-honest, and sometimes to admire the skill with which their blows are parried. On the whole I cannot feel entire confidence in the propriety of the present practice of law. So many temptations beset his path to swerve from strict rectitude that a truly honest and honorable lawyer should of all men be most highly respected. 

At Home Thursday April 17, 1856. Started at 11 o'clock A.M. for home where 
arrived at one o'clock P.M. 
One of the saddest piece of news I have heard this many-a.day is the supposed fatal illness of my old College chum, R. M. 
K. Strong of New York City. After a most laborious practice of the profession of law for nearly twenty years in N. Y. he retired a year and [a] half since to obtain that rest which his health required. Last year he went to Europe where he was attacked with paralysis and, returning in December, has since continued to fail till now his mind is affected hopelessly it is feared. Poor Strong I fear he hasted to be rich and in the struggle, health and life are the sacrifice. His bro. Wm. of Albany is my informant. 
Union College Friday April 18, 1856. After a weary, severe winter, spring comes at last in earnest with the singing of birds and other signs of the joyful change. The wide extremes of our climate from summer's heat to the biting frosts of winter make our climate a trial of health and the hu.man constitution. The usual inquiry is daily made into the effects of the past winter upon the grain and fruit trees. The former is thought to give an uncommonly fine show; the latter are doubtless injured more or less. The tender buds of the peach are pretty generally killed, and the field mice have gnawed the bark from thousands of young plum and other trees much to the annoyance of our nursery and fruit men. 
Saturday April 19, 1856. But one voice is heard from all sides of the conduct of our state assembly in adjourning so precipitately without passing the usual appropriation and supply bills. This attempt to force the governor to call an extra session is frowned upon as a direct infraction of the spirit if not the letter of our Constitution. It is thought no extra session will be called in spite of the disgraceful trial to coerce the Governor. Extra sessions have always been deservedly unpopular and the party that has tried them [has] almost invariably been defeated at the succeeding election. 

Sunday April 20, 1856. A singular sight for the season --a furious north east snow storm which continued the entire day. At night not less than 8 in. of wet snow lay upon the ground. Few out to church --self not at all. 
Monday April 21, 1856. The Registers Office has been kept in the room No. 2, South College (No. Section, lower story, back south side hall) probably from about 1817 or nearly 40 yrs. Some 17 or 18 yrs. since, the front room was added and the back room was used also for a College Post-office. In 1833 when Jonas Holland became Treasurer, the two offices of Register and Treasurer were combined in him and kept at the same place. The two lower east rooms in Geological Hall have been fitted up and will be used for the present as a Treasurers' office whilst the farmer's office (back room) will be occupied as a P.O. kept by a student (Lincoln, Sophomore). Today have removed most of books and papers to the new office which, besides being large and airy, has a smaller back room for books and papers made fire-proof. 
Tuesday April 22, 1856. Yesterday saw the last of Sundays snow although it leaves a chilly atmosphere. 
Bid farewell most gladly to our narrow, dirty, noisy old office and am fairly installed in our new quarters. What with high ceilings, ample room, clean floor, beautiful ventilation, clear light and sweet air, we are really much like one in a dream scarcely realizing that it is reality. 
Wednesday April 23, 1856. All hands "stand by" these few days to put things to right for the opening: sweeping, scrubbing, dusting, painting, raking, white-washing, carting, and what-not. Prof. Jack.son's new recitation room --No. 2. North College --is done and the painter is putting on the finishing toutch. No new faces yet. Friday and Saturday are the busy days and the great rush for rooms. 
Thursday April 24, 1856. Students begin to come, new and old, and the first inquiry is for a room. The advantage of a lodging on the "Hill," besides the nearness to the recitations, is cheifly the low price charged for it. The drawback is the inferior quality of the rooms. Dr. 
N. and Mrs. N. returned last evening, having been away the whole vacation in N. Y. Conn. (Bristol) and Philadelphia. 
Friday April 25, 1856. Charming weather. Treas. Office crowded 

from morning till evening with all kinds of applicants --to pay bills, to get rooms, to change rooms, to know when the Examinations take place, to register names &c&c. 
Saturday April 26, 1856. Ditto in all respects --as to weather, crowd &c. Last evening at 5 o'clock held Faculty meeting to consider course of studies for the term; held in Treasurers office. Present: President, Vice d[itt]o. Professors Jackson, Lewis, Foster, Newman, Peissner Pearson and Tu tors Bartlett and Millard. Nothing of note done or said. 
Sunday April 27, 1856. Delightful day. Táo Bapt. Ch. A.M., Rev. Mr. Day. To Pres. Ch. P. M., Rev. Dr Backus. 
Monday April 28, 1856. Entrances to College are rather above the usual number at this session, say 18 in all. This carries our nos. to 300 actual members of College, excluding all names of persons who have absented themselves more than two terms. 
The character of our students is much changed of late years; the "Irregulars" have increased and the regular Classical Students have fallen off. Young men choose such studies as are immediately applicable to to their chosen profession; they quit the old College routine for Mathematics and Science, Engineering, or Chemistry. French and German take the place of Latin and Greek: they try[ to?] learn more, but with all their cramming it is doubtful if they are so well-educated at the end as students thirty years since were under the old system. Our laws contemplate but three recitations a day: many of our young men have six! 
Tuesday April 29, 1856. The weather really seems to be making amends for the severity of winter. The thermometer has once or twice indicated more than 70 á, and the opening buds and green grass answer well to such indications. Until the Canal is filled and the summer arrangements of our railroads are renewed, we cannot feel quite sure that winter has left us. Canal horses and and ragamuffins already begin to migrate eastward towards Albany and Troy. A hard experience they both have before them --the dangers of the "towpath" are quite equal to those of the ocean altho' different and of a less poetical character. 
Wednesday April 30, 1856. An important day this with its twin, May 1. Careful housewives tremble for their china and polished mahogany. Oh! the discomfort of moving day! the trials of temper! the abuse of household gods and cherished furniture! Each one leaves his own dirt and wallows in his neighbor's, the accumulation 


of the year 
Thursday May 1, 1856. To add to other trials the rain poured -.
such a misfortune to our migrating citizens! Pay-day in College. 
Fortunately the large drafts on the Treasury made by the An. 
Laboratory have left nearly enough for salaries. The increased 
number of students has materially releived our wants and made 
possible our large expenditures. 
Friday May 2, 1856. Rain. One recitation each day in Botany viz. 
Mondays and Wednesdays, the Senior Class; Tues. Thurs. and Fridays 
all others, at 3 o'clock P.M. in the recitation room over Dr. Hickok's 
house. Twenty-four years ago and down to 184--the whole of the 
upper story of [the] house, north end, South College, was used as a 
chapel, and such a Chapel! No other man but would ever have 
thought of such a contrivance for worshipping God. It is often said 
that "No man can make a purse out of a sows ear." Generally this is 
true; I never saw but one who could do it, that is ____n_____He has often done as improbable things about U. C. áof which this old Chapel was one. A heavy wall ... 
Saturday May 3, 1856. ...passed thro' the centre; the Seniors and Freshmen sat on the west side, the Juniors and Sophomores on the east, but as the floors could not hold all, shelves or narrow galleries were built about the walls as perches for the supernumer[ar]ies. This dirty, forbidding hole was reached after three flights of stairs up, and one down. The entry would admit but one at a time and was dark as a pocket. This temporary affair was used thirty-odd years, during all which time the Chapel-which-is-to-be was talked of year by year until it became the standing joke of Coll. At one time it is said the bricks and timber for it were on the ground. 
Sunday May 4, 1856. Cool. To Pres. Church in A. M., Dr. Backus. Baptist in P. M. 
Tuesday May 12, 1856. On Thursday night last started with wife and Henry to visit New York City to see Mother Harvey and Sarah. Ever since the R. Roads have been finished, the great mass of the travellers choose the large and elegant steamboats. They are fitted up with great elegance and comfort, resembling more moving hotels than passenger boats. Each person if he choose may have a sleeping á apartment to himself, small, but quite clean and tidy. The supper table is orderly and bountifully supplied. The sitting rooms are warmed by steam pipes and lighted with gas made on board. You feel a slight jar and forward motion, else you might fancy yourself in some great public house on the firm ground. To myself this great machine has no terrors but one --the fear of fire when all are asleep. Everything is built of wood --white pine --and soaked in paint and oil; in the belly of this combustible monster is a huge furnace constantly fed with coals; heated iron .is almost everywhere in contact with bulkheads, decks and timber. It is well known that even a steam heat will in time char and ignite wood even at a moderate heat temperature if only continued, a fact but little known and never effectually guarded against. 

Fire is therefore now more to be feared and guarded against than steam. Until fireproof boats are substituted for our present tinder boxes, no one may expect to travel in them in safety. Every year will multiply disasters and roasted men and women will be served up to the demon of cheap and ******speculations. 
On arriving at New York the sky indicated rain, the streets showed the powers of mud. We attempted to walk to the Railroad (Vlth Avenue) and repented our trial; at last arrived at Madison Avenue (79) and found Mother Harvey and Sarah. Breakfasted at Mr. Gllle[tte's (Rev. A. D.). Rain, rain all day overhead and mud of the consistance of beach under foot. On next day (Saturday) the weather was not more favorable and prevented all pleasure from without. To Hosford's in William St., home to Madison Av. and homesick enough. 
On Sunday the sky cleared up and and a bright and lovely day srriiled upon us. Attended the Vth Avenue Dutch Refd. Ch. Mr. Vermilye preached. Everything was as cold, stiff and formal as the white marble church in which we worshipped. The services were severely decent, the order was painful. Every father of a family look.ed rich and grim. No one fact strikes me so painfully as the total want of poor people in our Protestant churches in the great cities. It is said the Catholics do better. I hope they do. With us one would think religion too respectable a luxury to be enjoyed by the poor, or else they must get a taste of it at some out-of-the-way, inconvenient barn up a narrow alley and in a dirty, stinking spot flt only [for] stables and dog kennels. It is sad that from the cradle to the grave the rich and the poor must ever be seperated: distance and exclusiveness must ever chill all sympathies for each other and if the latter are relieved it is too often thro' the hands of a hired almoner or benevolent Society. 
Monday brought another lovely day and at noon we started by Hudson R.R.R. for home where we arrived at 7 o'clock P. M. Every visit from home only makes it the pleasanter and more desirable. The older we get, the more fixed and necessary our habits to our comfort. Change inconveniences us. The beds are too hard or too soft, the food has not a home taste, little nicknacks are wanting, we loose our accustomed corner for reading the newspaper, we must conform to others hours, nothing goes right. 

On Tuesday Aunt Libbey from New Jersey came and made us a visit of a week or more, when she left to make a visit to her uncle at Cayuga Bridge. Some three weeks after, she returned and was met here by Uncle William Libbey and after a few days stay they left for Ulster Co. to visit her sister. 
As it was thought proper by most of the Faculty that the minerals belonging to College should be arranged and placed upon the shelves prepared for them before Commencement, it was pro.posed by Profs. I.W. J[ackson] and C. A. J[oy] that Mr. Jos. D. Whitney should be em-ployed for this purpose. The latter (and (former too, I suppose) proposed the matter to ----"----who probably gave his usual he[s]itating assent. Mr. W. came on first and gave directions as to shelves &c. and about the beginning of May returned to commence his work. He had been here say a fortnight when to my surprise I heard that Mrs. [Nott] charged me with taking upon myself the power of employing Mr. W. I immediately called upon ----" ---.and found him asserting the same fact. I denied, pointedly, ever having written to Mr. W. or having asked him to come. 
----"----"Who did then?" 
I. "I supposed you did". ----II ----"I never asked h'1m to come. II 
I. "I am very willing to have Mr. W. do the work that Mr. C. A. 
J. and myself ought to have done, but I protest against being charged 
with having asked him to come." ----"----, If neither you nor I employed him, I suppose Mr. C. 
A. J. must have done it." á 
Not long after, I asked C. A. J. who employed Mr. W., who invited him here. His answer was that he did not know but supposed he had as much to do with it as any one and that the credit must be given to him. 
From these and other facts which daily come to pass I learn how completely human are all great men! how sadly mixed with prejudices are all their most magnanimous thoughts! Here ----"---.stopped at once in his pursuit of a fault which will cost the Coll 250$ to 300$ when he found it pertained to another; still stronger does the case appear when C. A J.'s mistakes in the purchase of chemicals and apparatus are considered. ----"----has hardly a word of censure for such blunders; but when he fancies there is a hole in my coat his magnanimity is not sufficient to prevent his attempting to make it larger. 

[Gap from May 12 to August 24] 
Sunday August 24, 1856. Cool and pleasant. A M. to Baptist Church and heard Rev. Mr. Day. P. 
M. to Pres. Church and heard Rev. David Tully of Ballston Spa. 
Monday August 25, 1856. Fine cool day. Alone in office, Mr. Gilbert being out of town on a visit. Introduced to Prof. Silliman, Senior, of New Haven, Conn. and took him to see the Engineering Rooms, the Olivier Models &c. A fine, hale, hearty old gentleman, now Emeritus Prof., SO years an active Prof. being appointed Tutor in Yale College in 1799. 
A long conversation with ----11----upon my agency in matters connected with the College for the past year. The subject was introduced and argued in a long paper sent to him this P. M. (see Letter Book). No satisfactory conclusion was.arrived at when tea-bell rang and I retired. If taken up again, I do not expect any satisfac.tory result for, as I understand him to say, he has not told anyone that I have assumed the management [of] affairs without consulting him. He has talked with none of the. Board about Geological Hall expect perhaps Bp. Potter and Dr. Backus, whereas the latter says that not less than a dozen times----"----has told him that in matters relating to U. C. he had not been consulted at all by me. Here is flat contradiction: one or the other must have forgotten much and remembered strangely. I am completely dumbfounded. Where is truth? I hear false rumors and see the effects. I think I know the source of them but am disappointed when I reach it --a fog covers the whole surface of things. 
Tuesday August 26, 1856. Weather very cool with strong indications of frost tonight. All day in the office. New ceiling to Chapel finished tonight. The neccessity of this so soon after the building was completed was due to bad lime. These many weeks the carpenters have been fitting up the furniture for Analytic Laboratory, setting sills, opening doors and windows &c. The work draws near a conclusion. This vacation we have also completed another new recitation room above No. 25 North Colonnade: 41 ft. x 19 ft. This finishes all the lecture room accommadations that our buildings can well afford. We have now 10 rooms for public purposes besides 

Chapel, Library, &c. never in so good a condition before. Howard Potter, son of the Phila. Bp., visits, with family, his grandfather, the President (Nott), this week. The Am. Scientific Association sits at Albany this week, hope to visit it tomorrow. 
Albany Wednesday August 27, 1856. Thus far August has been said to be the coldest August for 68 yrs. save the [August] of 1816; on the con.trary July was the warmest for the [year]. With Henry to Albany at 9 1/2 o'clock and after some business to the Capitol where the Am. Assoc. for etc. has been holding its sessions for the week past. 
On entering found Dr. Hare speaking in favor of giving a session to his facts on the moving of bodies without apparent physical cause: or in other words to spiritualism. The members desired to humor the old gentleman but did [not] choose to spend time upon this subject; while talking, therefore, a motion to adjourn, and carried. The assoc. then retired to different rooms to read and discuss papers on various subjects. In the Supr. Court room I listened to a discussion on the Indian languages by H. R. Schoolcraft, Prof. Anderson and Prof. Haldeman Another on Ethnology by Dr. Wilson of Canada, &c. 
The afternoon from 3 o'clock till [?] was spent in a big tent in Academy Park inaugurating "Geological Hall." All the arrangements for the ceremony were conveniently made. The tent stretched across the front of the lawn, say 150 ft., and was made of strips of canvas alternately white, red and blue, sewed in zigzag courses. There were said to be seats for over 5,000 persons and when we entered they were all occupied. Agassiz first spoke. After an apology for his inability to make an oration, he gave an exposition of the marks of design and wisdom drawn from the general unity of plan in the animal and vegitable kingdoms. Doctors Dewey and Hitchcock followed. Before closing, we retired to take the evening train for home. Enthusiasm and satisfaction seemed to animate the members of the Assoc., among whom are many worthy and meritorious men. 
With all the merit, however, there is an immense amount of gas; a fluent tongue often supplies the place of brains, and the least learned usually say the most. What is said and read I regard as of less consequence than the cultivation of a fraternal spirit among the learned men who otherwise might never become known to each other. 
Albany Thursday August 28, 1856. Cool. To Albany again, found the Assoc. in General Session. The morning was mainly taken up with passing resolutions of every possible bearing --thanking everybody, his wife and daughter. Short speeches were made and general good feeling expressed in various ways. Perhaps it is not to be wondered at that scientific men should not be fluent and ready speakers, --perhaps not half a dozen in this whole body would be called good speakers and they not the most learned. 

Near the close Dr. Hare again requested permission to present his spiritualism to the Assoc. The most he could obtain however was the use of the Hall after they adjourned. Whatever may be the private opinions of the members, it ls doubtful whether the Doctor was wisely dealt with. If the subject be altogether disagreeable to them, the shortest method of disposing of it would have been to assign an hour to it and thus silence all discussion in General Session. 
Again it is doubtful whether they rightly judged when it was ruled that this subject was altogether beyond their respect and attention. If a humbug, it ought to be proved so for the safety of the public, and inasmuch as bodies are said to be moved without any visible influence, it would seem to come within the province of Physics. I have no belief at all in the matter, for or against, but must confess I should like to see a thorough investigation of it, for the benefit of bewildered minds. I say then Dr. H. was not altogether in the wrong in bringing this subject before a learned body. 
After the adjournment of the Assoc. Dr. H. addressed a respectable audience for more than an hour, giving an account of certain experiments made by him and exhibiting his apparatus used therein. At [?] came away to dinner at Delavan House. At 3 P.M. commenced the services called the Inauguration of Dudley Observatory. Ex-Governor Hunt spoke first of the life and services of Mr. Dudley, deceased. Dr. Gould, the Dudley Astronomer, spoke of the instruments and arrangements of the Observatory. Judge Harris announced that Mrs. Dudley had endowed it with $50,000, which fact was loudly cheered by the audience. Mr. [?] said twelve gentlemen had contributed to sustain Gould's Astronomical Magazine which would hereafter be published in Albany; and finally Edward Everett made his bow and in a very graceful manner began his oration, before the close of which [we] were forced to leave in the 6 o'clock train for home. 
The crowd was much denser than yesterday; doubtless 5,000 persons, mostly ladies, were present under the big tent and upon the stage. Both days proceedings had a certain interest altho' open to criticism. Nothing displeased me more than the fulsome praise of men --not of the dead only --but of the living and present too. This led to a return of the dose and so thick did the old fellows lay it on 
/3 7/ 
that it was both laughable and nauseating. This evening Mr. Delavan 
gives an entertainment at Delavan House to the Assoc. and others. 
This is a specimen of the tickets sent out. 
[No ticket on the page] 
Friday August 29, 1856. Cool as usual. Early in the forenoon with Prof. Dewey to Prof. Gillespie's rooms to show the Olivier and other models. He is a more aged person than I had supposed --bald and whitehead[ed] but pleasant, youthful in his feelings and lively. All day in Office. This evening came Uncle and Aunt Smart and 4 children on their way to Niles, Mich. to settle. 
Saturday August 30, 1856. Weather ditto. Father and Mo[ther] Harvey arrived from New York. V.p.h. laid before [me?] a code of Laws which I compiled for the Library, does not think it necessary to make any change in the Laws at present, or to open the Library oftener than twice a week. Altho' differing from him in this respect, I shall not attempt to bring about any change: any reform of this sort not originating in the right quarter usually meets with discouragement and disfavor. All persons about U. C. will do well (for their peace) to do no thinking for themselves or at [least] to propose nothing. 
[to HCM: Insert here the text of unedited printed p 183!!!!] HCM:???? 
a load of labor which I do not fancy, especially as it seems to become habitual rather than temporary. 
Saturday September 6, 1856. The whole number of new students entered thus far is 56, a trifle over one-half the entrances of the two former years. It is difficult to account for this falling off. The country is prosperous and the means for education are in no-wise diminished. Our facilities, altho' below what they should be, are certainly in advance of former years, yet whilst other colleges around us rather increase than diminish, we suddenly fall nearly one half in a single year.á 
This is perhaps but a necessary reaction from the effects of a somewhat over-stimulated condition arising from the favorable Senate Committee Report of 1854, the semicentennial celebration of the same year, the $600,000 gift so much lauded in the newspapers, free scholarships etc., all of which have had their effect in carrying the wave too high to be continued. True and lasting prosperity for any College must be built on real merit, not upon flashy reports and claptrap, which in the end only react disastrously. With whatever merits Un. Coll. may have, there is certainly mixed much that is unreal. Our plans are in the future; nothing is finished; indeed it is not allowed that anything should be finished. The true literary and scientific reputation of the College has been too much forgotten for bricks and mortar, lands, gardens and money, all of which are incomplete. Hitherto books and apparatus, high scholarship, thorough training have been mere secondary considerations. Until we can gain a reputation, therefore, for finished scholarship and thoro' teaching, all our reports of great wealth and other stories of material prosperity will not profit us anything. 

Sunday September 7, 1856. A. M. To Baptist Church and heard a young Mr. Fox, son of Rev. Norman Fox of this city. P. M. Rev. Mr. Day preached and administered the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. 
Monday September 8, 1856. Rain early, with prospects of a storm till 10 o'clock when it cleared off warm and summer-like. Met Junior class in Conics at recitation room No.IO, North Colonnade. On comparing numbers I find that last year at this time 94 persons had entered --this year 58 --a falling off of about 3/8. 
All day busy in Treas. office and about it: answering a thousand calls, receiving money, directing repairs &c. One of the saddest announcements I have heard these many years was that of my College chum's death, made by his brother Anthony Strong of Albany some days since. Robt. M. K. S[trong] and myself entered College together in Jan. 1832; we occupied the same room for nearly 4 yrs and graduated in 1835. Soon after, he proceeded to New York City to study law and commenced the practice of his profession in 1838. He continued his business, which grew apace, until 1854, when having amassed a comfortable fortune, he was obliged on account of ill health to abandon all active labors and seek a restoration of his overtasked system. He tried the southern climate in the winter of 1854 and -5 without much relief and finally, in the fall of 1855, in company with friends, crossed the Atlantic for a tour of Europe. At Dublin he was attacked with paralysis and an incipient disease of the brain which warned his friends by the time he reached Paris that an early return was necessary. 
Soon after reaching New York it became apparent that his mind was much affected and he was placed in a private asylum for the insane on Long Island. His case was finally pronounced hopeless by physicians and even his friends dispaired of his recovery. He died on the 24th of last month, August, in New York, aged about 44 yrs. 

Tuesday September 9, 1856 The weather could not be finer. Vegita.tion is still green and spring-like. All days of college life are alike. The routine is fixed, the duties of[?] is the same for all, and few inci.dents mark the dull uniformity. My two classes in Conics are composed of about 30 persons each. 
At 12.30 called with wife upon the bride, Miss Mary Cobb, who married Prof. Jackson, of Trinity Coll. Hartford, Conn. A large and pleasant party were gathered [at] her mothers' residence opposite the Pres. Ch., Union Street. 
Wednesday September 10, 1856. This session we have commenced a new arrangement for morning prayers and recitations. The waking.up bell is rung at about 61/2 o'clock; between that time and 7.35 the student must get his breakfast and at the latter hour attend Chapel prayers, immediately after which the recitations are heard. The old regulation was Prayers, Recitation, Breakfast; the new is Breakfast, Prayers, Recitation. It is hoped the plan will work well. 
Call from Rev. Mr. Beattie, formerly of Milton, Saratoga Co., now of the town of Cornwall, Orange Co., who brings on his son Charles to enter College. Warm tonight, south wind blowing. 
Thursday September 11, 1856. The demand for board and lodgings of students is inducing citizens to enlarge their accommodations. Just in front of my house a Mr. Ostrander is now erecting a house 70 ft. front and three stories high for lodging and boarding some 30 to 40 persons. It is intended to be ready by the first of January. This enterprize shows that it is not necessary nor needful for our Trustees to prepare lodgings for the young men; when there is a constant demand there will be a supply. It is doubtful, however, whether our authorities have come to think monasteries dispensable; they talk much of more buildings for dorm[i]tories and are looking about for the means to carry out the great plan of Remay. 
This evening called upon Prof. Lawrence of East Windsor, Conn. Theol. Sem., now visiting at Dr. Nott's with his wife, a daughter of the late Dr. Woods of Andover. Having lately been at the West as far as St Louis, he is full of the all-pervading topic, Kansas and Slavery Extension. He found but one clergyman in his travels who was not in favor of the Republican candidate. There was but one leading topic of conversation wherever he went and an all-pervading sentiment of horror and disgust at the shocking doings of the slavery fanatics. 
137t 
Friday September12, 1856. Prof. Lawrence and wife to tea this evening. Seven o'clock P. M. to Union School Building to attend a meeting of the Commissioners. At these meetings there is usually more talk than business. It was the intention of the Trustees of Un. College and so fixed by a condition in the deed of sale of the West College, that a good Grammar School should be one of the departments of the school, and at the same time Dr. Nott contracted to endow the Principalship with an income.of $1000 in August 1857. Until that time there is no probability that this branch of the school will receive any favor from the Comm[issione]rs. A majority of them are doubtless quite indifferent to the claims of classical learning and moreover jealous of the advantage that U. Coll. may derive from such a department. 
Saturday September 13, 1856. Received from ----"----a statement of his grievances from various all sources. So often have I answered them in so far as they apply to myself, I have no heart or disposition to say more about them. In this paper, however, are several that have no bearing upon my own case and for which I am in no way responsible as well as others which, altho' intended to attach to me, are altogether founded in misapprehension. It may be better perhaps to let them pass without discussion as nothing is gained by it. 
There are some minds with whom all the arguments in the world will not conquer their suspicions; whose self-love once wounded is never healed by apologies or disclaimers. An old mans suspicions are strong, especially if he knows he is old and fears his power may be encroached upon; reason with him is weaker than his fears. In all my course for the last five yrs. within so far as financial matters are concerned I have endeavored to act consienciously and according to written instructions. In so doing I have been aware that I was acting unselfishly and contrary to my own pecuniary interest and present peace. ----"----is by his shrewdness and managing, by his friends in the Board and out, capable of presenting matters in such a light as to carry almost any measure he may desire. A subordinate like myself, therefore, with no voice in the Bd. and no personal friend cannot fail to appear in an unenviable light as opposed to him. His grievances uttered in their ears and uncontradicted and unexplained carry a weight that ought to crush the obnoxious individual; in this manner I have in some measure suffered. I have been made to bear burthens not my own until the yoke is galling beyond endurance; my actions have been distorted into errors and misdemeanors and no opportunity for explanation given. 

Sunday September 14, 1856. A.,M. To Bapt. Ch. Rev. Mr. Day. P.M. to Pres. Ch. Rev. Dr. Savage, Pres. of Carroll College, Wis. preached. ,He appears to be an older man than I had thought --a brother of the late Prof S .. of U. C. with whom I was intimate. The latter would have been at this time about 45 y[rs. old], the former I should judge to be hard onto 70. His utterance is rather rapid and indistinct. 
Monday Septemberl5, 1856. The weather is nowadays the perfection of climate --neither cold nor hot but comfortable day and night. Our classes are now well under way and moving on harmoniously. The entrances amount to about 60, about 3/5 of last year's. 
Introduced to Asst. Prof. Johnson of Yale Coll. Laboratory by Prof. C. A. Joy. Saw him once before, last December, in his Labor'y. Saw also Prof. J's father from Ovid, who speaks in encouraging terms of the prospective Agricultural College now fixed in that village, thinks it will become a great state institution. 
Tuesday September16, 1856. Finest weath~r of the season with but one draw back --the certainty it will soon cease and the dreary reign of winter commence. June only is finer from the fact that it is followed by summer. How rapidly these rolling seasons chase each other! 
Much of the day busied ferreting out an obsolete bond and mortgage which is nearly paid up --the papers lost, and the mist of years and forgetfulness resting over it. P. R. Tell's bond and mort.gage has been said to belong to U. C. for years although it never did in truth as far as evidence goes, being only left in the hands of the Treasr. that its payments might be endorsed upon G. Crandalls B[ond] and M[ortgage]. The latter therefore is lost or destroyed and can only be traced (fortunately) upon the books of the County Clerk. Business in older times in U. C. was so transacted as to give little credit to those who held the responsible offices. 
Wednesday September 17, 1856. The beauty of the weather is in every bodies conversation. After a long and hard struggle the 2d Dutch Ch. has completed their House of Worship at the corner of Jay and Liberty Streets. It is a very neat and commodious chapel capable of seating about 800 persons, perhaps a little more including gallaries. Its spire is prepared for a clock and bell. The whole cost is about $14,000. To the Rev. Mr. Duryea, the pastor, is due the greater part of the credit of this enterprise. Altha' not a great preacher, he is an excellent pastor and man, energetic and untiring. 
) 

Thursday September 18, 1856. After trying to obtain leave to open the College Library 4 to 5 hours each day and receiving no encouragement from the proper authorities, I have fallen back upon the old Law, directing books to be loaned on Fridays and Saturdays one hour each day. The reason assigned for allowing no more time for the examination of books is that the Library is small and that it is not well to encourage students to frequent the Library too much to the neglect of their studies. However much this may be true of students, it does not properly apply to Professors, who should have every possible facility for consulting authors upon their several topics [ot] study. The smaller a public library, the more perfect should it be catalogued and the greater the facilities for studying it. 
Friday September 19, 1856. We are now in the midst of a military excitement caused by reason of the encampment of a few young men and boys called the 26th Regiment. Of all popular parades and shows, none are so contempt[i]ble as these; little boys we expect to play soldier, but to see great grown men with feathers in their hats, bright buttons, and gay coats, strutting around, a show to gaping boys, is the smallest of all shows. It might however be tolerated if productive of any good; it is however well known that, in case of war, military men will sooner choose raw recruits to make soldiers of than these half-baked citizen soldiers who have to unlearn before they can learn. 
Saturday September 20, 1856. Some indications of rain. Dr. Nott is now making some movement towards a subscription of the Alumni to build a Graduates Hall for anniversary meetings. I know not how he will succeed. It is certainly singular that among the great number of our sons a paltry $10,000 tan not be raised for so necessary a purpose. One bad feature in the business, however, is that they have never been accustomed to give for such purposes. U. C. has never asked them to aid her; she has never shown more than a step.motherly interest or affection for her sons and you may be sure the return is of like measure and intensity. I would hope to raise $100,000 sooner for Yale Coll. than one tenth of it for U. C. Then again if the money were in hand I doubt the manner in which ----"----will dispose of it. 
He now speaks of consecrating the ground on the south side of the Troy Road by making it the site of the intended Hall. Such a spot would be objectionable on many accounts. It is cut off from our main grounds, has no trees, is exposed to dust and the impertinence of the 
/377 
crowds; to say nothing of its nearness to lands of others who may sell to persons not at all desirable as near neighbors. I have now the opinion that the best plan for a graduates hall will be to put up a central building of two stories, making the one a chapel and the other the grad. hall. This would relieve the present Geol. Hall and give us room for some years for our library and museum. When, however, a Library is needed [I?] would erect a fire-proof building on purpose for it, say in the grove back of the central building. 
Sunday September 21, 1856. A. M. to Bapt. Ch., Rev. Mr Day. P. M. to 
Pres. Ch. Rev. Dr. Backus. 
Monday September 22, 1856. Cloudy, cool, threatening rain. Most of the classes are upon a "Bolt" occasioned by the turn-out of a company of "fantasticals" --a take-off on the military parade of last week. I have about the same respect for the former as for the latter. 
This evening attended an examination for Freshmen Scholarships at No. 16, Prof. Foster's lecture room. There were present of the class, Baldwin, Beach, Nichols, Sprague, Taylor. A preliminary examination was has in Arithmetic and Grammar of English, Greek and Latin. Tomorrow evening it is to be continued. As not over 2 or 3 can be selected from the class, the scrutiny must necessarily be severe. Prizes of this kind are among the best incentives to good scholarship. I think, however, they should be more in number and graded. As it is, we have lost several good scholars who, on being rejected, left for other colleges. 
Tuesday September 23, 1856. Cool and cloudy, but no rain here altho' we hear of it eastward. Dr. Nott was attacked with cholera.morbus, running into dysentery, last night --today, altho' some better, he still keeps his bed. For a man of his age such a disease is particularly to be feared. 
Two o'clock P.M. to Albany. Saw on the train Fairbanks, lawyer, of Florida, a graduate of U. C. He was formerly from Watertown, N. Y. To State Library to Mr. Woolworth, who is out of town. To various other places and home at 6 o'clock. 
To examination of Freshmen Prize scholars --same as last evening. Nine o'clock P. M. to Dr. Nott's, found him comfortable having slept an hour or two without pain. 
Wednesday September 24, 1856. Never in all previous Presidential Elections has there appeared such an abhorrent expression of dislike to the spread of African Slavery. It is the rallying cry of one great 
/37( 
party, and here at the North the other two for self-preservation are obliged to feign at 1e,Mt a semblance of hatred to it. The times certainly are hopeful for the success of the Free Soil ticket; still, if it should not succeed at this election, its strength will appear so formidable and the growing opposition to slavery will be so threatening that trimming politicians will hardly dare hereafter to disregard the voice that speaks to them from a free North. I am content to wait if it so please an overruling Providence. The imminent danger of Kansas and the consequent fate of a long line of new States west of her only fearfully increases the anxious desire that now the free state forces may be successful. That slavery must be hemmed in or ruin the country is evident. Stop its spread, stop the interstate slave trade and the evil may become local and not corrupt the whole body politic. 
Thursday September 25, 1856. Dr. Nott has now been quite sick with 
dysentery since Monday. At his time of life few ailments are more 
dangerous or fatal --he has however gradually mended; and under 
homeopathy and hydo-ditto come to a pretty comfortable state. 
Jackson's Conics, Optics, and Mechanics were published at first by Union College and at a loss of probably $1000. The College has now fortunately only an interest in the stereotype plates of the former, the two latter have been published by G.Y. Vandebogart. The conics is now out of print and it is a question whether College shall republish it or sell out to G.Y.V. 
Friday September 26, 1856. Dr. Nott is slowly recovering from his attack of the Dysentery, altho weak as yet and unable to attend to his duties. He uses Homeopathic doses and cold water which together with a vigorous constitution and great temperance seem to do the work for him. 
Saturday September 27, 1856. When self-conceit and selfishness are united in our character they make a troublesome compound difficult to be managed or tolerated. I have met with one such lately in my official duties and have had more trouble with him than with all other professors except _____ . Being extravagant he desires all that his eyes rest upon and if not gratified he complains like a spoiled child. Altho' full of errors and mistakes, he has not modesty enough to confess or feel sorry for them. In financial matters he is not to be trusted, yet when convicted of faults he is slow to allow them, and speaks of his injured innocence and honor. A self-conceited man may be endured --his folly may beá passed by; but excessive selfishness is so unbearable an addition that few ever desireto meet [it?] at a second time. 
Sunday September 28, 1856. Fine day. To Pres. Church. Dr Backus preached and administered the Lord's supper. Few churches in this country keep up the old Scottish system of having tables spread out in the Church. Dr. B's contains many Scotchmen. The tables are narrow and extend the _full length of the main aisle and across beneath the pulpit; the communicants sit on benches on either side of them. When one table is filled and served, the communicants retire and a second company take their places. 
Saw Dr. Nott this evening. Found him sitting up. He spoke among other things of the desirableness of having a social prayer meeting of the Faculty and their families once a week. 
Not long since on another occasion he spoke of the storm of wrath which was kindled against him some 50 yrs. since in Schenectady for the active part he took in getting the common lands of the city into market and sold. One of the warmest contests arose out of this question in which the two parties raised every influence possible to carry their points. The city was thoroughly canvassed and every voter brought out --the lands were sold, and many have not forgiven the Dr. for his influence in this contest to this day. One old Dutch woman has always asserted that he "Yankee-doodled" them out of their lands. 
Monday September 29, 1856. The rain fell in torrents nearly all day and evening. The carpenters are now at work upon the Laboratory and outbuilding. A back yard is fenced in and coal sheds erected, connected with the Lab. by a covered passage thus: 
--DRAWING HERE-.
A notable defect in this arrangement is the covered gallery from the coal shed to the Laboratory which, altho' convenient enough, endangers the building containing much valuable apparatus. As however the plan was none of my own I hope to escape the blame if any attaches. The work was executed by the authority of the President. 
Tuesday September 30, 1856. Rain. Last evening, at a meeting of the Board of Education, where we talked away three hours to very little purpose. They are tedious occasions! It is a necessary evil doubtless and attends all great deliberative bodies! Payed bills for quartely salaries. Authorised Mr. Cook to procure a Classical teacher in place of Mr. Parsons who has resigned. Approved of a form of application for incorporation, to be sent to the Regents Canvassed Mr. Marsh's merits as a teacher of music and whether we shall employ him the current term, etcetc. Adjourned at 10 o'clock We wearied out with words. 
Wednesday October 1,1856. Judge Tomlinson, an aged citizen, of 87 years, died to night. He has spent about 70 yrs. in this city. His native place was a town of Conn. from whence he removed in early life and commenced business here without friends or capital; by industry and economy he amassed a large fortune: for his probity and exact justice he was respected by all who knew him. Altha' a close and careful man in his business, he was withal charitable and kind to the poor in a quiet way peculiar to himself; he gave not only of his substance but his time and directed his gifts to the best purposes. Many anecdotes are told of his thrifty ways: as that in the beginning, he went to New York to buy goods; on applying for credit, the merchant was indisposed to favor him; Tomlinson turned to leave the store and espying a pin upon the floor stooped to pick it up; the merchant was struck with this saving trait in his character, called him back and sold him his bill of goods. Whether true or not, this incident is in keeping with his habits of economy. Both his children, a son and daughter died before him Charles lately and Mrs. Potter, the wife of Bp. Horatio Potter of N.Y., some years since. His son's death proved perhaps the death of the old man; he took it to heart, his mind failed and he sank under it. 
Thursday October 2, 1856. Mrs. Stowe's "Dred" is now the much sought for book. It is not the exciting story of "Uncle Tom's Cabin"; ft can be laid down without regret and resumed with pleasure, affording nourishment to the reason and judgement but little for the passions. I cannot say that either of these books ever seemed to me to belong to a high order of fiction. They want a plot, particularly the last, without which no exciting interest can be-maintained. Some of Mrs. S's attempts at character-painting are quite successful. "Old Tiff'' is not equalled by any other personage in her books --he is consistant and well sustained throughout. Dred, the hero, does not interest me. Nina more. Taken as a whole, the work is a series [of] powerful essays on the influence of slavery on the white population of the South. The story has but slight connection --the catastrophe, Nina's death, occurs before the close and Dred dies a dog's death ere his cherished rebellion is brought about. With all its defects it will have a telling influence upon the northern mind which is now in the proper state to appreciate its great truths. 
Friday October 3, 1856. Another book of the season is Com. Perry's Expedition to Japan, now first published by Congress under the 
á supervision of Dr. Hawks. The interest of the work lies in the facts and observations made upon an almost unknown people, in spite of its errors and crudities. The success of the expedition, too, gives an additional charm to the book which it could never have had under other circumstances. Com. P. has acquired a lasting name which even a great naval success could never have given him; it might have made him President (a curse to many a character who has filled that chair), but it could never have made him the opener of the peaceful trade of new and untried nations. 
Saturday October 4,1856. Dr. Nott has quite recovered his usual health: both himself and his friends were fearful of the result of this attack, considering his age and the dangerous nature of the disease. At 84 Dysentery is no trifling matter. 
Sunday October 5, 1856. At Baptist Ch. morning and evening. Rev. Mr. Day preached. Communion season at the two o'clock service. 
Monday October 6, 1856 . We have had few contests within my remem-brance when the people have been more stirred. Often hitherto the strife has turned simply upon the desire of a party for the mastery: rendered intenser by the "Ins" and "Outs" striving for the spoils of office. We do not then expect the public conscience to be toutched by high motives: perhaps only the pocket is indirectly effected. It is otherwise now. The immediate question at issue is not so much whether slavery is right or wrong, whether it shall cease in the States where it exists,, but whether it shall be extended all over the free territory of the United States. Such a contest necessarily becomes geographical: the Slave and the Free States are pitted against each other and, could the bare naked merits of the case be presented to the people of the North, freedom would soon triumph and quiet be restored. 
Tuesday October 7, 1856. Moral questions however seldom reach the majority of our citizens and produce an abiding effect. Reaction often follows and defeat succeeds to victory. So it has been with the temperance question; the marshalled hosts have advanced and receded alternately for some years, and now the powers of darkness have the advantage. So it will be with Slavery -the public conscience is toutched with the wrongs of Kansas and if in this election the Republicans, who advocate the restriction of slavery, should elect their President ( which I doubt), what reason have we to look for anything but a reaction that will again give the ascendency to the Slave Power? I am loath to think that ... 
Wednesday October 8, 1856 .... the Genius of Slavery shall sit and preside over our National Councils and sway our delebirations much longer. I am ashamed to be forced by unholy laws to return the flying fugitive to the cruel taskmaster or be branded as a law breaker and rebel. Slavery may be tolerated where an earnest desire exists to remove and lighten the evils of it, but when the united voice of many States not only proclaim it to be the corner stone of democracy and the favored Institution of God, when not only legislators and statesmen laud it, but the Church prays for its continuance, when all labor for its universal spread over our free and virgin soil --What shall we say, ... 
Thursday October9, 1856 .... what shall we do, if not to the utmost of our ability, to attempt the stay of the increasing evil! It seems as if no human and ordinary power can help up in this immergency. That God wills the final triumph of American Slavery, I cannot believe; that civilization is to go backward in this late age, I am loath to think. The ascendency of the Slave Power must be temporary. 
Friday October 10, 1856. Their exultation can be but a prelude to their final downfall. In the approaching contest I apprehend the election of Mr. Buchanan, standing as he does upon the Cincinnati Platform. The South will hail this as a signal triumph and well they may. The Democracy will also have both the House and Sen-ate. What then will follow? In view of the fact that slavery extension has nearly ruined the power of the party at the North, will the party in power at Washington push matters to extremes? or will they temporise and throw out tubs for the great Whale -the incensed public of the North -to play with? It may be so. 
Saturday October 11, 1856. That the party now to come into power will do the behests of the slave owners of the South insofar as their constituents will allow them without intense political condemnation is not to be doubted. I now speak of Northern Democrats in whose hands lie the weal or woe of Kansas and free territory. Slavery is not popular even with the Democrats at the North, but party lines ... Sunday October 12, 1856 .... are stronger with thousands than the conscience: such hope to keep alive their party and power with the aid of the South; they ignore therefore the fearful evil and the vital question, hop-ing that some future antidote will heal ills of the body politic. Some are frightened at the cry of Disunion at the South in the event of the success of the Republi-cans and from motives of prudence therefore support what they call the conservative candidate. 
Monday October 13, 1856. This has been a useful trick with the slave-holder but as it has become stale from constant use for years it is fast losing its effect. The bane of the Republican cause in this contest, however, is the "Know Nothing" element. Never was there a more unfortunate third party than this: too weak to gain anything for itself, it has nevertheless the power of mischeif more to be feared than even the Democracy alone. 
Tuesday October 14, 1856, College is seldom stirred by any excitement of its own getting-up. Beyond Society elections and Commencement Marshals, we have to look for outside subjects for gossip. Lately however an uncommon bit of commotion has ruffled our placid surface of affairs. Sometime since a fantastic company paraded the town, awakening an unusual interest among the boys of all ages. Among others the majority of the students "bolted" and visited the camp of raggamufins. To strike a wholesome terror into the Bolters their parents were informed of the fact that they had refused to attend their usual exercises on that day etcetc. The parents, becoming alarmed at such a state of rebellion, ... 
Wednesday October 15, 1856 .... wrote as they were moved to their sons who became excited a,nd indignant beyond all precedent. After various indignation meetings and much spouting, a committee was appointed to draw up a report of the whole affair. This was printed and sent to their parents in extenuation of the offence and to allay their alarm. It is proba-ble the President's circular was incautiously worded and gave a worse aspect to the offence than the facts would warrant or than he intended. Be that as may, I have seldom seen the "boys" more excited and disposed to resent the President's agency in their troubles. 
Thursday October 16, 1856. Never was there finer fall weather. The hazy atmosphere of the Indian Summer is as still as if all nature were slumbering. A drowsy lang[u]or falls upon all, a disinclination [toward?] indoor pursuits and sad desire to walk abroad and enjoy the few charming days that presage a long and dreary winter. The gay autumnal dress of the forrest trees also imparts uncommon beauty to the landscape --a beauty in death, mingling joy and sadness. 
Friday October 17, 1856. Since the first of July the work upon the Labora-tory fittings have been going on --a slow and unsatisfactory job. When a child undertakes a mans enterprise, anyone knows the result. An incom-petent superintendent wastes time, money and patience: he reaches no satisfactory result, pleases neither himself nor others, but is too proud to 
Saturday October 18, 1856. Cousin Elizabeth Libbey and Augustus Sexton arrived this morning from New York together with sister Magoun and Eddy. The Libbeys are my mother's relatives and originally settled many yrs. since at Rye, N.H. There my mother was born. Subsequently her family removed to Chichester N.H. One bro., William, settled many yrs. since in Newburgh; he has one son, Cousin Wm., doing business in New York and several daughters all married except Elizabeth who is in delicate health. 
Sunday October 19, 1856. Lovely day. To Presbyterian Ch. in morning and heard Rev. Mr. Cheeseman, minister of the Methodist Ch., with whom Mr. Backus has exchanged. 
Monday October 20, 1856. {Dr. N.] has now made up his mind to build a house. In his old age he commences what a younger man is loath to begin. The Barn is going up this fall, the House is to follow, so he says in the Spring. He expects to obtain the means of building this house from Mrs. Cruger and her two bros., of New York. At least he says $5,000 will probably come from that source. Perhaps so! we shall see. [Dr. N] 's projects for raising money are legion; .but one, however, ever filled his hopes --the Lottery scheme. Another structure --the Graduates Hall --is beginning to occupy his mind which is as ever busy upon some material improvement for the College. This also is to be built by the gifts of the Alumni. If properly approached, doubtless they would do it, but personal application is necessary ---an agent or agents is indispensable. Who then will go? 
Tuesday Oct.ober 21, 1856. The atmosphere is so smoky that a Nova Scotia fog can hardy surpass it in gloom. The Indian Summer is intense and more decided than I have seen it for many yrs. This sleep and obfuscation of all nature is too complete to last --a few days probably will change the whole aspect of things. 
Wednesday October 22, 1856. This morning Fa[ther] and Mo[ther], Cousin Elizabeth Libbey and Aug. Sexton left --the two former for Hudson, the two latter for Newburgh and New York. A little rain, much fog, more smoke. Mrs. Edmonds (formerly Miss Du Mont) of Utica is on a visit at Dr. & Mrs. Notts. 
Thursday October 23, 1856. The sky is again clear, the cool bracing wind from the north prevails and the Indian Summer has given place to a young winter. 
Examination at Prof. Foster's lecture room for those conditioned by reason of absence or deficiencies in original examinations. But few present and those not prepared, as usual. Examiners were Profs. Foster and Gillespie, Tutor Millard and self. A moment at Dr. N's who despairs of a Republican President and deprecates the election of Buchanan. He by no means thinks the Union sure nor even desirable as at present governed by slave.holders and their northern allies. Spoke of Thanksgiving Day as interfering with our session this years; either it will cut off one wk or we must continue it be-yond that .day in which, as he truly says, there will not be much study done. 
Friday October 24, 1856. Mrs. Edmonds of Utica made a visit of a few days at Dr. N's last week. She was the French teacher for many years at Miss Sheldon's (Now Mrs. Nott) school in U[tica]. She was afterward a governess and companion for Mr. James Brown's daughters in New York until she married Mr. John H. Edmonds. This evening the examin[ation] of students "conditioned" in Languages was held in ( 16), Prof. Foster's Lecture Room. Did not attend. These occasions are mere "make-believes"; there is nothing real and satisfactory about them. They are, however, like many other things á we do, an outward show without any internal reality. To be thorough and searching, all important trials should be superintended and led by a few independent examiners having no official connection [with] the College. It would be almost as proper for students to examine each other as it is for their teachers to do so. A real examination shows not only how much the student knows, but how he has been taught: hence the Professor's method is tried as well as the pupil's attainments. 
Saratoga Springs Saturday October 25, 1856. Cool --but bright and clear. At 7.30 A.M. started by Rail for Saratoga Spgs. with wife to spend the day away from the cares of business and home. The striking feature of the landscape now is the brilliancy of the autumnal foliage. Nature 
á seems to have outdone herself this season --her clothing gay beyond measure. The eye does not weary nor the mind cloy with looking upon the splendid scenes on all sides. The Village of S[aratoga] looks dull and forsaken: as a city that has had the plague and all the inhabitants fled: the houses closed and grass growing in her streets; or it resembles the rooms of a great mansion the morning after a splendid rout with everything in disorder, just as the guests have left them. It is a pleasant, pretty village nevertheless. There are evidences of good taste and thrift about it; as well as of show and pretence. Year by [year] the population grows and the streets and houses push farther into the country. After all, what is the basis of all this apparent prosperity? Simply a little spring bubbling up in a wooden tube without which the whole prosperity of the place would fade away as the falling leaf. Almost the first thing one asks after looking about is What supports all these people? They have no manu factures, little trade and a poor sandy soil. The Village answers that they are kept alive nine months of the year by the crowd of visitors the other three months. For the want of any definite object in view we walked about, visited Congress and the Empire spring and after dinner at the American tavern strolled up Broadway at the head of which stands the palace of the Village, a house now building by Mr. & Mrs Charles Burr. It is said that the house and furniture will cost from $30,000 to $50,000. His history is a singular one. He graduated at U.Coll. early in this century. His father, old Jona. Burr of Washington Co., was a wealthy, British man who for some reason utterly discarded his son Charles and refused till the day of his death to do any thing for him. The son became insane and imbecile but harmless, wandering about in rags and gaining a precarious living by selling children's books and toys from a basket on his arm. The father died 12 or 15 yrs since and his only son and heir inherited all his vast wealth, estimated at $400,000. Guardians were appointed and in the course of time by kind treatment he was much improved altho' to this day it is doubtful whether he is a sane man. For some years he resided in the summer at S[aratoga]; he there became acquainted with a young, dashing, ambitious widow, Mrs. Beach, wife of the late John H. B.. who died in California, and dau[ghter] of the late Col. Saml. Young. She married him (for it was not thought possible that he could court and marry her) and now manages, property, husband and all, holding the reins in her own hands. 
Saw Rouse, who graduated at U.C.; he is a grocer. McKindley, the lawyer, has left Saratoga and settled in Chicago. Wentworth, who went to Chicago a few yrs. since, has gone still farther to Iowa. Geo. R. Putnam keeps the Union Hall while Mansfield T. Walworth 
Un.College Sunday October 26, 1856. A.M. to Bapt. Ch. Rev. Mr. Fuller, a travelling Agent(?) preached. P.M. to Pres. Ch. A young man --a stranger --preached or rather read a religious essay. 
Is there much preaching at this day? Has not the pulpit and the most momentous of subjects lost their power by the cold manner with which these truths are handled? How the stump orator and the advocate sway their hearers! Men believe, see them, to be in in earnest. I fear it is not so with the minister of the Gospel. 138ft 
Monday October 27, 1856 .. P.M. and evening, rain. (moderate). 
A third examination was appointed for this evening at ( 16) Prof. F's. room, for those who desire to pass from the University course to the Regular. Present Profs. Newman, Peissner, Foster, Pearson and Tutor Bartlett Two students appeared but were unprepared and retired. 
This another of our unmitigated abuses and evidence of unthrift. These irregulars or University Students are such as study when they elect and enter without examination. Many do so totally unprepared with the expectation of preparing for college while going on with its classes and at last squeezing in thro some knothole or cranny incautiously left open. 
Un. College Tuesday October 28, 1856. The weather is the delight of every one. We have experienced thus far little or no frost. The Analytical Laboratory is now approaching to completion, the painters alone await their turn to finish. The whole affair has created no little talk and ill feeling with some. Much disappointment has been experienced and many doubts of the future are entertained respecting the success of this department. The first grand mistake was in starting it at all under the present straitened circumstances of the College. [Dr. N.] first gave out word that he was going to have a complete and well arranged Laboratory. Everyone understood that it was to be done by his Trust Fund and not become a burthen to College. He engaged the young man who is Professor and placed him on his foundation with a salary of $1,500 whilst old Professors with grey hairs were receiving only $1,000. This made loud and angry talk among the faculty. $5,000 was the Professor's estimate for an outfit for the Laboratory, but when the time arrived to make the purchases [Dr. N.] threw the whole burthen upon College. It had no funds, no means of borrowing the money but by mortgaging its real estate. [Dr. N.] objected to this but proposed to take $12,000 worth of the lands abd to give his bond, payable in two years, with which paper the College was expected to do the necessary improvements. Some demurred to taking his paper and the project fell thro'. Finally in May 1855 the Trustees voted to borrow $14,000, $4000 of which was set apart for the Anal. Labora-tory. The Prof. was written to by authority of the Res. Trustees and ordered to spend $3,000 and no more, reserving $1,000 for freight and fitting up the Laboratory. Instead of obeying this order, he spends and orders more than $4000 worth of apparatus and by shocking mismanagement runs up the freight aand expenses to more than $1,500 more, so that when landed in New York the whole cost exceeded $5,800. Here again the Trustees were called upon for another loan, not only to meet the deficiency but to fit up and arrange the Laboratory Rooms. $3000 at least was needed over and above the original grant. In all this mismanagement and disobedience of direct orders, in view of the difficulty of raising even the first $4000, much more the additional $3000, the Agent of the College never once showed a sign of regret for his agency in this matter, or ceased to importune and complain of ill-usage. 
Wednesday October 29, 1856. Again, the Agent has another greivance which lies in the stubbornness of the the Treasurer in not allowing his method of settling his account with College. He received $3000 from College with orders to spend that alone for chemicals and apparatus. On 1st of Jan. last he presented his vouchers --the bills which he had paid in Europe, and by changing 78 cts for the thaler, 46 cts for the florin, and 20 cts for the franc, also by charging the College $150 for etcetera, it appeared that he had fully accounted for all the money received. The Treasurer took a different view of the matter: he ascertained that the European coins were not worth the sum charged and by reducing them to near their actual value and by debiting him certain costs of freight on private goods etc. made him a debtor to College [of] $632. The Agent then owed several hundred dollars which must either be paid in cash or cancelled by other means. On March 3d therefore he made out other bills which in the agregate amounted to $551. or more than $400 in excess of his former bill. How could this be when no new transaction had been had betw. him and the College? Thusá he picks up the odds and ends of his own collection, fixes his own price, and charges them to College as a part of the chem.and app. which the Institution needs for the Anal. Laboratory. Moreover, on July 22, he still farther claims of the Trustees $150. for freight on his "books and minerals," as tho' they came over with the College freight, whereas they were brought over 2 yrs. before on his first return. The $15 Owhich he asks for was the freight of his wife's goods which came mixed up with College's property --an amount allowed and charged to himself in his second bill. Here then appears the inconsistency of the man, always exacting, never modest enough to keep in his own place, but asking for more and never satisfied. This whole business has been referred. 
Thursday, October 30, 1856. Fine mild day with a little sprinkle of rain in the P.M. At 2 oclock went to Albany to take the report of the Board of Education of Schen. to the Secretary of Regents, Mr. Woolworth, whom I found at the State Library. After a few minutes conversation left, and about town. To the State Museum of Geol. and Agricultural Rooms --like the State Library a monument of folly and extravagance wholly unsuited to the purposes for which it was intended. Neither of these buildings seem[s] to have had any other designer than an ambitious architect aiming to make a show. The Museum would do very well for Barnum: it was built with the purpose apparently to see how much room might be wasted and how little light and convenience could be afforded for the money spent. The State Museum is to occupy one half of the building, the State Agricultural Society the other half. There are 4 stories above the basement but only one floor -the rest of the space is occupied with galleries for show cases. By this arrangement the floor room so indispensable for bulky articles is reduced to one quarter of what it should be. The Agricultural Rooms already exhibit the folly of this arrangement. The present small collection of ploughs and other instruments occupies all the spare space altho' they have been open to the public but a single season and the only remedy will soon be to floor across from gallery to gallery and open additional side windows for light. It is rumored indeed that when the Geologists saw the museum constructed after the same model they refused to give their sanction to putting the State Collection into it until altered. At any rate it is true that no progress has been made in putting the State Collection. Home at 7 o'clock. Evening at 8 o'clock to Mrs. Notts to see Mrs. Douglas Cruger anad bro. William Douglas, visiting there. An eccentric woman she is, altho' I am told a very good and kind woman. The conversation was mostly on bringing up and weaning babies! Altho' Mrs. N., Mrs C. and Mr. Douglas have no children!! 
Friday October 31, 1856. The cheif interest attaching to this family now is the fact that they together, the sister and two brothers, have subscribed $5000 toward building the President's House for Mrs. and Dr. Nott. Mrs. C. is an unbounded admirer of the Dr. and having set her heart upon this mark of her esteem and profound regard for him it is hoped it may arrive at some actual result; at any rate Dr. N. told me she was to pay him $500 tonight as a first fruits of the promised donation. 
Saturday November 1, 1856. Fine day. Quarter day and not half money enough for salaries. After much contriving, distributed the little loaf among all, giving each a bite. Nott Trust Fund in the same predicament. Overdrew the bank account by agreement some $800. 
Long talk with Prof. J[ackson?] in regard to Prof. C.A.J[oy]: his accounts, his complaints etcetc. 
Sunday November 2, 1856. In the morning to Pres. Ch where heard Rev. Villeroy Reed of Lansingburgh, a classmate of mine. Some two years since, he married his second wife whom he buried about 6 weeks since. She died of consumption. In the afternoon to Bapt. Ch., Rev. Mr. Day. After the sermon -the Communion of the Lords Supper. In the Evening Rev. Mr. Reed called to pass the night. He is what many people call a good sound preacher, without much animation or elegance. 
Monday November 3, 1856. Some rain today and evening with good prospects of our usual rainy election-day tomorrow. All parties are on the "qui vive" for the result of tomorrow's voting. They appear equally confident of success and equally boastful of carrying everything their own way, but a day will make many long faces. Disappointed candidates who have staked their all upon the event -.in many cases thousands of dollars will feel --well, let us wait and see how. Tis said that one candidate (in this city) for Congress will distribute from $5000 to $8000 thro' this district for the purpose of bagging votes and with no reasonable prospect of success. Indeed any man who will do so a base an act does not deserve it. 
Tuesday November 4, 1856. Foggy and cloudy all day but warm and no rain. The election passed without disturbance and all parties seemed good natured and determined to carry their candidates. At nine o'clock in the evening the votes of the city were declared when it appeared th[at] Fremont had carried it by a small plurality. This result disappointed all parties, none more so than the "Know Nothings" who counted on 500 to 600 majority. The like result is rumored also from some of the neighboring towns, giving joy to the Republicans and hopes of sustaining their candidates in the district and state. As to the general result I have never doubted that Mr. Buchanan [would win], with the united South and two or three northern states. The contest has been distracted by the fatal 3d (Know Nothing) party which has persisted in running a candidate with no hopes but to defeat Fremont. 
Wednesday November 5, 1856. Nothing is talked of but the "returns" of yesterday's voting. Mr. Buchanan is elected by the aid of Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Indiana; whether he gets another northern state is doubtful --perhaps Illinois, probably California. Mr. 
Fillmore unexpectedly gets one state Maryland ( 8 votes) --nothing more. As for this state, its voice is that of thunder --loud, decided, unflinching for freedom. Fremont gets 20,000 perhaps 30,000 above the highest opposing candidate. He probably carries every northern state save those above mentioned. The moral effect of this verdict, it is hoped, may be felt by the party now coming into power on the strength of an undivided slave power. If not, and that same truckling to southern ascendency is kept, another election will unite the North in one undivided phalanx to hurl the corrupt sham Democracy from power. 
THursday November 6,1856. Every returning mail only confirms the tremendous majorities for free speech and free territory. No former election ever witnessed such unanimity in one prevailing sentiment --a determination to admit no more slave territory. Although overpowered by the combination of slave power, Know-Nothingism and sham Democracy, still the Republican party, now but a yr. or two old, has more life and buoyancy than any other party organization. It is neither disheartened nor cast down but is ready today to continue the battle for freedom and will do so so long as the question of free territory is an open one. Nothing but Restriction will ever calm the raging contest. It is fixed in the determination of a vast majority of the northern people and will be carried out sooner or later. 
Friday November 7, 1856. Fine, cool, clear day. The fog has cleared away from the battlefield of the Fourth and the result is doubtless as was an-nounced two days since. Illinois is doubtful, with every prospect of wheeling into the Republican ranks; California to hear from. 
Now what is to be the future? It is easy to speculate but there we stop. The so called Democracy of the North is prostrate and must so remain, I am confidant, until they come back to the Free Soil platform. To depart from that at all has been distasteful to a vast majority of the leaders, I am confidant, was only brought about by the most powerful means: the desire of southern aid, the fear of disunion, the eclat of a name, the sweets of office and patronage. 
That the northern Democracy will be content to become the tail to the southern kite for any length of time I cannot believe; that they will consent to sacrifice all state and local power here for the benefit of their southern allies is not to be thought of. The consequence of all this present unnatural state of things will be, therefore, to make them restive and intractable, and before two years come round the Democratic State conventions North will reiterate the Free Soil doctrine or something akin to it with the hopes of reclaiming their lost power. With the leaders this will be dishonest and a sham but may nevertheless bring back for a time their lost followers, and when the general election of 1860 comes around again, these same Demo-cratic leaders will bid for southern votes. So we go --See Saw ! See Saw ! Expediency is the word. It may take 4, 8, or 12 yrs. to restrict the spread of slavery; but that it will at last be done is as sure as the sun in heaven, and that party which perseveres in opposing this righteous truth will be rode down and trod down by the rising convictions of a free people. 
Saturday, November 8, 1856. Fine day till near night when the wind veered to the N.W. with a smart shower and reduction of temperature. Our heavy expenditures on buildings and Anal. Laboratory had the finances of College quite lean. A part of the salaries still remain unpaid and the prospect of more money is quite discouraging. 
The election being over and the result known, all things settle down into quietness. Speculations are rife as to the future but little is known. One thing seems certain: the Democrats (so-called) have elected their president: but the Republicans have also gained a moral victory which will tell with marked effect upon the powers that be and to be. That a vast majority of the northern people are opposed to the spread of slavery cannot be denied -that they will continue in their opposition is equally true: No administration therefore, no matter what their platform, can afford to ignore this fact and sacrifice their power at the North. 
I doubt that any party at the North will have grace enough to make them play the kites' tail to the South for a long time. If they find it unpopular and unprofitable to knuckle to their taskmasters, then they will turn the cold shoulder and go with the stronger party. Still but little dependence can be placed in the party leaders and caucus resolutions. I look for an entire change of tune from the party calling itself Democratic in the state convention of this as well as other northern states: in 1857 it is probable that they will get at least one leg upon the Republican platform. Their addresses and Resolutions will have a decided free-soil squint; by 1858 both feet will be upon the planks and, altho a little unsteady and shaky, they will pass for pretty good Republicans whose thunder they will endeavor to steal. [By] 1859 the party leaders will prepare to leave and by 1860 the Union will have to be saved again and a true-blue Charleston, S.C. platform will be constructed proslavery in every plank and beam. 
Sunday November 9, 1856. Cool and clear. To Bapt. Church in the morning. 
Monday November 10, 1856. Fair clear cool day. 
The P.M. at 3 o'clock, the Resident Trustees held an informal meeting on the Hill to consult on certain matters relating to the Laboratory. Dr. Nott, Judge Paige, Dr. Backus, Dr. Hickok, Prof Joy and self were present at the Laboratory, and after inspecting it in all its parts, the first four adjourned to Dr Nott's study, first appointing another meeting at 7 o'clock tomorrow evening. One matter requiring immediate attention is the seating [in] the Laboratory Lecture Room which Prof. J. asks to have done at an expence of from $600 to $800. Adjourned to meet on Tuesday evening at 7 o'clock. 
Tuesday November 11, 1856. Students are dropping off fast and the disposition to study of the rest is much relaxed. At 7 o'clock there met at Dr. N's study to dispose of certain presidential matters Dr. Nott, Judge Paige, Dr. Backus, Dr. Hickok. In the course of the business, after disposing of other matters, Prof. Joy's lecture room was discussed --the cost, the best method of seating it etcetc. After giving his views upon this subject he digressed to the bills and accounts standing unsettled between himself and the Treasurer and reflected upon the Treasurer's manner of stating them in such a manner as to oblige him to answer his assertions. This he did generally by saying that he found on examing Prof. J[oy]'s. vouchers on his return from Europe that he owed the College $500 more or less, and that he believed he honestly owed that amt. still, that the only question between Prof. J. and himself was whether he should pay this sum in cash or whether in articles selected out of his own apparatus and in certain doubtful claims for etceteras which the Treasurer could not allow without the formal vote of the Trustees. The Treasurer also spoke of the new claim of Prof. J. for $150. made for "freight upon his books and minerals." This claim the Tr. said was built upon a false basis viz. that the 12 or 15 Boxes belonging to Prof. 
J. which arrived with the College chem[icals] and app[aratus] from Europe consisted of books and minerals wholly or cheifly; he denied this assertion, saying that not a quarter nor a tenth of their contents were books but apparel, pictures, plaster casts, papier mache', music etcetc, in which the College neither had nor could have any interest. This and much more was said: and after floundering and explaining, the Prof. acknowledged with some hesitation that altho' only one box contained books he thought their [value] use would be so valuable to the students that the College could afford to pay for the freight of the whole lot, i.e. 15 boxes!! On the whole this discussion was extremely distasteful because I was obliged in self-defense to reflect upon the conduct of one for whom I had every reason to desire an opposite course. 
Wednesday November 12, 1856. Altho' cool, still fine November weather. Dr. Nott's barn is now receiving the last labor of the slater. It is placed on the Troy road a little east of the entrance gate to the College and is 35 feet square with overhanging hipped roof. The House,, it is said. will be built in the spring just at the junction of the College Terrace and Union Street. This is to be done at the expense of Mrs, Douglas Cruger and brothers of N.Y. City. So it is promised and expected; whether it will turn out so or not remains to be seen. "Put not your trust in Princes" is an old proverb. They seldom are able to fulfill half their promises or, if able, have not the disposition. So it is with rich people of expensive habits and large families of kind relations. 
Thursday November 13, 1856. Last evening at a meeting of the Board of Education at Union School, where much talk and little done as usual. Dr. Nott has now a project to build a Graduates Hall by contributions from the Alumni and Professors, to begin at Schenectady by calling a meeting of those residing here to be held in the Session Room of Pres. Church on Sat. Evening. So far as Schen. is concerned I doubt not it will prove a failure and I am not sanguine of other places at this present time. 
A visit yesterday from Mrs. Berg of Saratoga Springs, a neice of Bps. Potter. Friday November 14, 1856. Tonight, rain, snow and sleet. All study may be considered at an end in College, a fortnight before the close of the end of the term. 'Tis a pity any encouragement should be given to the students that they could be suffered to leave on account of Thanksgiving. A firm and prompt denial would have discouraged all thoughts of breaking up our routine of study till the proper time. Having now practically two heads who do not agree in all respects and who do not as cheerfully assume responsibility for fear of crossing each other's paths, as they would do were but one in power, many things go wrong and the blame falls between them. This is an unfortunate state of things and if continued will lead to anarchy. Men accounted wise often do most foolish acts and seldom know themselves. If our actual head had known his own character, he would never [have] associated with himself a coadjutor or 
lieutenant. He is the last man in the world who can tolerate any 
dictation or difference of opinion. 
Saturday November 15, 1856. The thin covering of snow still lies unmelted and affords us a foretaste of winter. A busy day --many students leaving. Prize students calling for their money, workmen for wages, and money running very low. . 
At 7 1/2 o'clock a meeting of resident graduates met in the Pres. Session Room for the purpose of taking into consideration the expediency of erecting an Alumni Hall by contributions from the Graduates. About 25 persons were present; Judge Wright in the Chair, A.M. Vedder etc. The meeting was addressed by Dr. Nott, Dr. Hickok, Judge Wright, A.G. Thompson and Prof. Foster. The project was approved of and a committee of thirteen with Dr. Nott at the head was appointed to carry out the same. 
Sunday November 16, 1856. Cold, wintry. A.M. to Baptist Church .. Rev. Mr. Day preached 
Monday November 17, 1856. On going to the recitationroom this morning found but three out of my two divisions of 60-odd present; the rest are either gone or are preparing to go. This stampede, for it is nothing else, reduces our term to about 10 weeks. A little firmness on the part of the powers-that-be might have produced a different result aand prolonged the session to the 28th. It has not ,however, been our custom to give full measure: little causes have often before broken up College and our students are well aware of the ease with which it can be done. 
Tuesday November 18, 1856. The doors are locked and only a few stragglers are now and then seen upon the College campus. Much of the day busied drawing plans for the flooring of the new chemical lecture room: to please all concerned is difficult. Some want symmetry, some convenience; some want the moderately ascending floor, others want it very steep: so where conflicting opinions meet, no harmony can be expected. Altho' holding an opinion I sacrifice it to others who are more interested. The President has finally settled upon this 
--DRAWING HERE-.
It is now supposed this plan will last till the work is begun and as it is now vacation perhaps those who might disturb the work will be 
out'of town and beyond the power to do harm. 
Wednesday November 19, 1856. Still talking about the plans and making estimates of work and stuff. Striving and planning to "raise the wind" i.e. get money to pay bills and salaries --a matter not easily attained where there are so many leaks in the Treasury. The ordinary expenses of College can be met by the current income, but whenever the Board has certain reso-lutions which he [Dr. N.?] presses thro', all drawing heavily upon the funds of College, these extraordinary calls for funds, the Treasurer can not foreseenor provide for. 
Thursday November 20, 1856. Thanksgiving-day. Two church services are held: 1. in the Bapt. Ch. for the Methodists,, Baptists and Second Dutch, and a 2d at the Presbyterian Ch. for the first Dutch and Presbyterians. At the first (Bapt. ch.) Rev. Mr. Cheeseman of the Methodist Ch. preached; at the 2d (Pres. ch) Rev. Mr. Seelye of 1st Dutch ch. preached. Besides these services the Episcopal Ch. had services and a sermon. Heard Rev. Mr. Cheeseman, an excellent sermon. By certain thin-skinned apologists for slavery and opponents of what is nicknamed "political preaching." it would have been an unsavory discourse. This hue and cry against the clergy for opposing Slavery Extension, however, is fast becoming powerless here at the North. The conscience of the people fully approves of such opposition and will sustain them. 
Friday November 21, 1856. My evenings are now spent in arranging my materials for the genealogy [ of] the Pearsons of the northern states. To many people this would be taken as a useless waste of time. Perhaps it is. Yet every man must have some hobby, some recreation from other and severer studies, from the cares of business and the brain-ache. This may be as harmless as any and as profitable as most amusements. Some of the name may hereafter thank me for my labor. It is becoming no disgrace but a positive honor in these days to claim descent from the Pilgrim fathers, whether of the Mayflower or otherways, and the time will come when they will stand higher in the esteem of American citizens than does the Conqueror and his robber knights with the Aristocratic Englishman. 
Saturday November 22, 1856. A fine mild fall thus far. Today is as mild as Spring. 
Dr. Lewis' dau[ghter] Keziah is alarmingly ill at Willard's Fem. School, Troy, so that the whole family have gone to be with her. Fears are felt for her safety especially as her brain seems affected. Our Ancient Emeritus Prof. of Greek and Latin, Dr. Proudfit, is also grievously afflicted with a complication of disorders in addition to his extreme age. He can barely hobble about upon crutches. To add to his affliction his oldest son James, a dissipated man, has come home a hopeless cripple unable to help himself and quite indisposed to do so. So troubles gather around the fireside even of the good man; he too is not exempt here from the ordinary trials of life, yet if rightly used they work for his good: whereas the bad man sees not the hand of God in his troubles and can never be refined of his dross by them. 
Sunday November 23, 1856. Weather ditto. A.M. Rev. Mr. Virgil of Albany preached for Mr. Day in Bapt. Ch. --a zealous man and not a sleepy preacher;not deeply learned nor always clear as to what he wants to say. 
P.M.Rev. Mr. Backus preached in Pres. Church. 
The power of the pulpit, one would say, should be irresistible. Drawing its arguments from both worlds and appeal ing to man's highest nature and fears, why does it affect so little? Why move so seldom to action? I believe our preachers are too decorous, too formal, too precise in language and action, too starched-up [with?] decency and order! Let everything be done with decency and order! There certainly is decency, but no spirit, nor earnestness; and as to order, it degenerates into formality: for there may be a formality even in the Methodist or Bapt. Churches as well as in the churches of forms, rituals and rayerbooks. Even Wesley's followers are losing their life and power. They are getting theological seminaries and sending out their cast and moulded men like the other older churches. It will never do so. We soon shall need another Reformation. The Ch. requires it every 500 years and our semi.millenium has nearly come around. 
Monday November 24, 1856. Yesterday we heard of the serious illness of Dr. Lewis' dau[ghter] Kizzie, a young ladle of 18 who has been a pupil in Mrs. Willards School, Troy. Her life is despaired of; any hour we may hear of her departure. Her brain seems to be affected. Commenced repairs on Dr. Lewis' kitchen, so. end So. College. The [kitchen?] is to be renewed --ceiling and walls. These old Colleges are so shockingly built that it is quite a costly job to touch them in any point with a view of making repairs. {Dr. N.] often boasts that he superintended the building of the So. Coll. and Dr. McCauley of the North and that the former is well built whilst the latter is in a shocking state of dilapidation. In fact there is not much choice between them: both are a disgrace to all who assumed the control of the matter. 
Tuesday November 25, 1856. As yet we have hardly felt the breath of winter --little or no ice has been seen and the air is as balmy as spring. At eleven o'clock the news arrived of Miss Lewis' death and at one o'clock the sorrowful family and remains came by Rail R. from Troy. A hearse and carriage being in readiness, they arrived at home a little after one. A sad blow this to the Prof's family --Kizzie was pronounced by all the flower of the family. She had a winning way, a motherly care of the younger children; all loved her, all mourn for her now she has gone. A few weeks since she united with the Dutch Ch. in this city and died with a good hope quietly and calmly at 3 o'clock this morning. 
Dr & Mrs N started for N.Y. this morning at 5 o'clock, to be gone the whole vacation probably. One object of his visit is to interest the graduates in a project for erecting an Alumni Hall by contributions from the gradu-ates,, of whom not less than 300 reside in that city. 
Wednesday November 22, 1856. As to the ultimate success of this project many have serious doubts. Several causes militate against this so laudable a project. In the first place our graduates are not devotedly attatched to their Alma Mater, upon whom they look much as they do upon a step-mother who indeed may have done her duty by them but in so cold and unaffectionate a manner that she is believed to be glad when they are sent forth from the parental roof. If they return, no smiling welcome awaits them to warm their hearts and awaken pleasant memories of bygone days, so after a few trials they become thoroughly weaned and never return more. From such a state of feeling what can be expected when the Alumni are called upon to con-tribute to our funds and buildings? 
Thursday November 27, 1856. At two o'clock today the funeral services of Miss Kezzie Lewis were held at her father's house. Mr. Seelye, the minister of the 1st Dutch Church, officiated. Tomorrow morning the body is to be carried to Fort Miller for burial. There her mother's friends reside and several near relatives were buried. 
Another reason why success in our Alumni Hall enterprize is doubted by some is that most people imagine we are rich enough already, immensely rich and above the shadow of a want. Union College may indeed be comfortably provided for in the future and in certain departments, but for buildings, repairs aand general purposes she is poor and would [be?] if all her anticipated wealth were in hand. The public, however, do not know this. A third obstacle with many to giving to Union College is a want of confidence in her financial management of the State trusts or funds. The late Senate investigation terminated favorably to College and her President; still many lingering doubts remain and perfect confidence was not restored nor will be during the present generation. Some mistrust her discipline, others her scholarship; many, her religious and moral influence, pointing to the fact that few or no revivals of religion were ever known here. We shall see whether all or any of these reasons will have weight with contributors: if New York does not respond generously to our call no farther attempts can be made. 
Friday November 28, 1856. The approaching winter still lingers, how long it is hard to foretell. Every day, however, stolen from his domain is a clear gain for us poor northern sojourners. The dullness of a long winter vacation is only sweetened by the leisure it gives for study and reading. College Hill now is like a forsaken barracks lately full of life and bustle. The rattling windows make doleful music and the cold damp halls remind one of a sepulchre. 
Saturday November 29, 1856. Winter has come. Tonight 4 in. of snow lies upon the ground. Busy closing up the month's business in Treas. office. Commenced the College Report to Regents, a long and useless task repeated year after year with no good result. The machinery of annual reporting which the Regents require from Colleges an Academies is a cumbersome and exceedingly intricate affair. I had at any time rather foreclose a bond and mortgage than undertake to follow their instructions in these yearly accounts. So far as our own institution is concerned they have no right to ex-act such a paper, altho' the Trustees have thought fit to wave their rights and voluntarily com ply with the custom of otherc alleges. They reserve their right, however, to cease the practice whenever they think proper. 
Sunday November 30, 1856. A fine winter day. A.M. to Baptist Church.The Rev. Mr. Day preached and at noon baptized at the foot of FerryStreet. My little son Willie who for the last week has been sick of the scarlet fever is now fully recovered. Much gratitude we owe to God who has favored us with so slight an attack of this dreadful children's disease. May the others also be spared. 
Monday December 11, 1856. During the day at the ordinary routine of Treasury Office; for some evenings past, arranging certain facts into a family genealogy, a subject I have amused my leisure with off and one for a number of years. Only those who have attempted to hunt up the descendants of one man for 200 and odd years can know of the difficulties of the attempt or the magnitude of the undertaking. Innumerable letters must be written, many of which bring back no answers; lost lines much must be looked up, and where the descendants of two or three progenitors of the same name exist in the same region it requires all one's skill and patience to unravel the tangled skein. 
Tuesday December 2, 1856. In the present case 4 of my name, at least, were early settlers in Massachusetts: John Pearson of Rowley, John Pierson of Lynn and Reading, Bartholomew [ditto of] Boston and Woburn and Rev. Abraham [ditto] of Lynn, Conn. and Newark, N.J. The descendants of the latter are found mostly in Conn. N.J. and New York States; of the three former in the other N.E. States, N.Y., Penn., Ohio etc. The children of the first I have been cheifly busied about and have reached about 800 bearing the name without including the descendants on the female side. I think it probable that 400 more may yet be found when the ground is thoroughly canvassed. 
Wednesday Deccember 3, 1856. Having safely seen Willie thro' with the scarlet [fever] we have now our oldest son Henry down with the inflammation of the lungs. It is a pretty severe case and gives us much anxiety as he is a fast-growing boy and now just arriving at the age of puberty, a critical time with young folks. I trust good nursing will carry him safely over: for my trust in physic is but feeble --indeed it does more harm than good as often administered by our heroic practitioners. We use homoepathy in our family but so [far] as myself is concerned more as an apology for a cure than as doing any real good. I am told that allopathic doctors now give much less medicine than formerly and that harsh treatment --bleeding, blistering etc. are really rare now. 
Thursday December 4, 1856. Another 6 inches of snow upon the former makes good sleighing and brisk business for our merchants. A five-month winter now before us is a dreary prospect. 
Friday, December 5, 1856. Fine winter weather and sleighing. Henry is slowly recovering altho' pretty sick. There is little doing in S. or "upon the Hill" worth noting at this present. We are all burrowing ourselves in houses or places of business, without excitement the dullest of mortals. 
Saturday December 6, 1856. To Albany from 9 to 1 o'clock; delivered Trustees' report to Secretary of the Regents, paid a bill and home to dinner. P.M. [to] C.C. Clute at Treas. Off. and paid off Jno. Robinson's mort[gage] and another due Bp. Potter for whom I act as agent. 
Sunday December7, 1856. Henry some better. Home all day. Fine weather, but cold, clear. 
Monday December 8, 1856. After a great and unusual excitement at and before the last election, the country has cooled down to its accustomed temperate heat --all acrimony has ceased and good na.ture with hope for the future prevails. Not that the great question is set at rest by this election. Slavery Extension is so distasteful to the free people at the North that no success of their opponents at the South can ever make them lie quiet under this terrible infliction. 
The morality, too, of slavery itself must ever be a fertile topic for discussion so long as the monster evil exists. 
Tuesday December 9, 1856. The hugeness of commercial cheating at the present day is only equalled by political corruption and lying. Dishonesty is the rule, honorable dealing and strict truth, the exception. As in a great city like New York every day in the year is crowded with frauds, so in the transactions of Cabinets and the enactments of Legislatures double-dealing is ripe and virtue hides her head in shame. Not that this is a worse age than the former except in the opportunities for evil. "Deal with every man as if he were a rogue" is a common and almost necessary rule of action. "Believe nothing you read in a political newspaper" is another almost as necessary a law of conduct. 
Wednesday December 10, 1856. Received a day or two since a formal refusal from R.W. Lowber of N.Y. to pay the College any more interest on his bonds and mortgages --the reason assigned being totally inadequate to account [for] so singular a course. One is forced to guess at the true reason and then fail perhaps for want of discernment. But as [Dr. N.] telegraphs that he is coming up tonight, when he arrives he may shed some light upon the subject. At a meeting of the Commissioners of Education in the Union School Building, as usual much talk and little done. 
Thursday December 11, 1856. This morning a little conversation with [Dr. N.] from whom the true cause of Mr. L's disreputable course can no more be gathered than from his letter. The ostensible reason is that College has not performed her contract with him (L.), which is false in letter and spirit. [Dr. N.] then produced a map, bond and mortgage, searches etcetc., of Crane and Ely which he proposes to exchange for L[owber]'s Bbond and mortgage, the interest on which he refuses to pay. [Dr. N]'s reasons for this exchange are that the harbor commissioners are interfering with the exterior line of the lots in question, that there will be litigation which will involve the interests of the College and perhaps stop the salaries of the Professors and hum! hum! -----The fox is not unburrowed yet! P.M. Rev. Dr. Backus, the only Trustee now in town, was called in to hear of the proposed change. After reading the papers and hearing [Dr. N]'s story of the advantage to arise to the College it was agreed to adjourn to Albany to meet other Trustees there and consummate the business. 
Albany Friday December 12, 1856. At 10 o'clock to Albany (1 hr. behind time) for the purpose of calling together the Trustees residing there, to meet in Delavan House at 3 o'clock. 1st, saw Judge Harris, promised to come; 2d [saw] Bradford R. Wood: lame leg and couldnt; 3d Rev. Dr Halley, sick and begged to be excused; 4th Rev. Dr VanVechten, promised to be there; 5th E.C. Delavan ditto. Secretary Headley, could not find. 
Then to dinner and to Delavan House, where at 3 1/2 o'clock assembled the following Trustees: Rev. E. Nott DD with chair. Rev. J. 
T. Backus, Rev. Jacob VanVechten, E.C. Delavan Esq. --no more. J. Pearson was appointed Secretary. 
After talking over the matter, a Preamble and Resolution were drawn up, passed and signed by the 4 Trustees present, approving the exchange of mortgages under certain conditions. Two very apparent objections to the business were the fact of a prior mortgage of $25,000 upon the land and the proposal of [Dr. N.?] to pay the back interest by his note. To the former the Trustees assented; to the second I asked that they should authorise me to take a note for the interest by a formal resolution. [By] this proposition [Dr. N.] was highly offended and showed much childish petulance and bad feeling. Finally a clause was inserted in the Resolution such as I required. I then said it would be necessary for me to have an order from a majority of the Finance Committee; two present (E.N. and E.C.D.) signed it and [Dr. N.] and myself rode to B.R.Wood's to get his signature, all the way scolding me for my obstinacy. B.R.W. signed the papers altho' with evident reluctance. At 6, home for tea and at 8 to [Dr. N]'s study to exchange the bonds and mortgages with receipts etc. Having done so, I then asked him what Mr. Lowber would do about the other bond and mortgage against him for $10,000. "Oh!" says he, "I rather think he will pay that, but if he dont when we have settled this one, you may sue him for all I care." 
Saturday December 13, 1856. This morning [Dr. N.] is off bright and early to N.Y. with the bonds and mortgages obtained by yesterday's transaction. Now as this exchange of mortgages is precisely similar to one which [was] effected one year since and upon the same pretence --fear of a law suit about the outer water line and with Lowber the mortgagor; and moreover, as the former block was sold within a few months after to a gas company, who seemed to have no fear of a law suit or defective title, the question arises what is the true reason for this transaction. The ostensible ground for it is to save the College from trouble and to ensure a punctual payment of interest. The truth is, after all this disinterested talk, the exchange is needed in order to meet [Dr. N]'s financial necessities, to raise money 
to stave off pressing debts. 
Sunday December 14, 1856. To Baptist Church. Heard Rev. Horace Day. 
Monday December 15, 1856. Received word that Judge Paige desired to see me at the Depot (R.R.) this morning at 9 o'clock to obtain information respecting the transaction of Friday last, for unfortunately he was absent in New York. Saw him but 5 minutes. He said, "The whole transaction is null and void by the 36th Section of the Trust Deed which says the property shall be unincumbered in which securities are taken, I want you to say so to [Dr. N.] as coming from me. If you will write to him, I will write to Crane and Ely to the same effect. Moreover those Trustees have made themselves personally liable in this case. I shall write to Wood and Delavan and tell them so." 
Tuesday December 16, 1856. This morning received a line from B.R. Wood, Trustee in Albany, repudiating what he did Friday evening -.the signing the order to make the exchange of mortgages --and saying the business must be stopped. Too late! His note was dated Saturday but the exchange was made Friday night in readiness for [Dr. N.] to leave the next morning. 
Wednesday December! 7, 1856. In today's N.Y. newspapers appears accounts of the meeting of the graduates of Union College held in N.Y . . last night at which Dr. Nott made a speech, among others, and a committee was appointed to solicit donations for the contemplated Graduates Hall. From what appears, however, in these accounts no one can tell the true spirit of the meeting or the prospect of ultimate success of the enterprize. The Committee on Subscriptions are all good men enough in their several spheres but I doubt whether they are going to beg $25,000 from the graduates of N.Y .. Some other man must do the dirty work--an active, persevering man whose services 
shall be properly paid for. 
Thursday December 18, 1856. Prof. Foster returned from N.Y. today, 
having spent something more than a week there in advancing the 
interests of the Graduates Hall subscription. He reports a tolerably 
good state of feeling: the hard work, however, has not begun yet -.
the getting $25,000 in donations. 
Gillespie writes despondingly of the Graduates Meeting as having 
been dull and spiritless. á 
Vp. [Hickok] throws cold water on the whole project and 
prophecies defeat and ill success. He has done so from the beginning; 
am sorry to see it as I think his hearty cooperation here, in N.Y., and 
elsewhere might have told favorably upon the business. So it goes. 
He and [Dr. N.] seldom agree any more in anything. 
Friday December 19, 1856. Now some days ransacking and overhauling all the old papers on file in Treasurer's Office with reference to a systematic arrangement of them. The letters are to be preserved in (scrapbook) volumes chronologically with index to each vol. and a general index to the whole. Papers on file after a long time seldom retain their order or completeness. One careless man may bring disorder and barrenness into any public office. Hence all valuable papers to be kept an indefinite length of time should not be kept on file but be pasted upon the leaves of a volume prepared for that purpose. 
Saturday December 20, 1856. Rain all day with a fair prospect of losing all our snow. Evenings upon genealogical studies: whether profitable or not, doubtful: nevertheless, having already carried the subject well nigh to the close of it, there may be some excuse now for finishina it with some decency and completeness. I would never advise any one, however, to undertake to ***** [hunt?] up and arrange the descendants of any man of ordinary fecundity for two hundred yrs. The persons of my own name -from Jno P. Rowley, 1643, have been from 1500 to 2000, I should say, leaving out of the account any but the children of the females. 
Sabbath December 21, 1856. Fine clear day. To Bapt. Ch. Heard Rev. Mr. Smith of Hudson on exchange with Mr. Day, who visits a sick mother. A young man but fair preacher. Congregation thin in A.M. as well as evening, which rather surprised me. The Bapt. Ch., I think, has never been popular in S[chenectady]. Why I do not know. The recent Dutch Ch. erected near by has drawn off many who otherwise would have joined our congregation. 
Monday December 22, 1856. Snow all day. Saw Vp. H. this morning_; he talked cheifly of the late exchange of bonds and mortgages belonging to the N[ott] T[rust] funds and the serious objections Judge 
P. makes to it. The latter has received a letter from [Dr. N.] in which he professes to have only the good of the college in view and that he shall be able to convince him that the transaction is fit and proper if he shall be able to perfect it. All day arranging the correspondance of the college preparatory to putting it into bound volumes and indexing it. The records of the College of all kinds down to about 1818 are sadly defective and even to a later date are nothing to boast of. Previous to that date, I suppose, not one hundred letters are to be found in the office: when, however, in 1817 Jonas Holland became Registrar, the papers of the office were all preserved and put into some sort of order. 
Tuesday December 23, 1856. Snow all day and high wind. Few or no 
calls at the office. 
Yesterday and today visited the public schools --the White St. 
school house. This consists of two stories and accommodates about 160 scholars of the smaller grades. Misses Guernsey and Jane S. á Cunningham are the teachers. To all appearance the children are orderly and well taught. The rooms are cleanly and tolerably well 
ventilated. 
Wednesday December 24, 1856. Called upon Judge P. to talk about the exchange of bonds and mortgages so often refered to before. On Monday the 15th. inst. I had but a minute to hear him as he was on his way to Troy, by Albany; in the latter place he tells me he wrote to [Dr. N.] in N.Y., also to Mr. Ely, to Mr. Delavan, saying that the transfer was illegal for two reasons: 1st, because the new mortgage was given upon encumbered property; also 2d, because a note of hand was given for the interest of the bond and mortgage given up. The Judge could not exactly find fault with me for any agency I had in the matter, yet suggested a certain way in which in such a case I might with propriety postpone action till more mature deliberation. As, for example, an order from the Finance Committee,, although signed by a majority, is not valid in law unless given after conference and deliberation when assembled together. 
Thursday December 25, 1856. Some time in office, the rest of the day at home. Christmas is made more of a holiday than a holy day even by those who pretend to keep it all. Many shops and stores are closed more from custom than reverence. The streets are lively with riding parties whose noisy laugh ill comports with a day so hallowed by religious remem-brances. Such levity and thoughlessness accompanies all human observances; even the place of worship is too often made the show-shop of fashion, like the opera or theatre. The pious soul worships God always and in all places, even his labor and relaxations are consecrated, while in the contrary the irreligious cannot be awed into seeming reverence by the holyest place and associations. The want of faith and piety in these days is the common complaint of all godly ministers. Our churches do not grow in numbers and graces as our population increases, and the dearth of Christian ministers is becoming really alarming. Prosperity makes us worldly; we forget God and his Ch. when the world promises us its prizes and honors. Even the sons of the church are lured away from the sacred office and few are so self-denying as to adopt a life of poverty for the good of others. 
Friday December 26,1856. Received a letter from C.A.J[oy] this week requesting me to order 100 copies of Fownes Chemistry for the Junior Class. In return [I] gave two reasons why I could not. 1st. The Trustees on July 22, '56 passed a resolution forbidding any change of textbooks without their sanction. 2d. U.C. had given up the publishing and bookselling business, hav-ing found it unprofitable. I.W.J[ackson], however, took the responsibility to direct bookseller Vandebogert to order them. Also sent a copy of the resolution to [Dr. N.] and the substance of C.A.J's request. Laws and Resolutions, however, in Union College are made to be broken; even the Executive who ought to regard them is the first AND most unscrupulous in transgressing. 
Saturday December 27, 1856. Cold and windy. L.A. Willard dropped in from N.Y. Meeting of the Trustees of Bapt. Ch. last night at the house of H. Champion. The Bapt. Ch. is unfortunately much agitated by a sad defection of one of its members, a leading man and of considerable influence --D.M. Chadsey. As he asserts, about one year ago he married his neice., a young girl of 16 yrs., privately and by a written contract without witnesses. This not proving satisfactory, in July last he was again married by a clergyman near Albany. The whole affair was kept secret as long as it could be till finally the consequences of the connection became apparent. Many of the members of the Church became indignant at the scandal and, at a church meeting at which he was not present, excluded him. However much he merited this action, the manner seemed harsh to some and contrary to our discipline. C. was not slow to catch at this mistake and create as much sym.pathy as possible from the circumstance. This is a sad affair for our little weak, struggling congregation and will react strongly against us in a com-munity already not too well inclined to Bapt. principles. 
Sunday December 28, 1856. Rain and sleet in small quantity. To Bapt. Ch. Rev. Mr. Day preach[ed] from last clause of Lord's prayer. Notice of a special Ch. meeting for tomorrow night, at which it is understood Mr. Chadsey is to have a hearing. 
Monday December 29, 1856. This evening attended the Special ch. meeting to reconsider the case of Mr. Chadsey, spoken of on Saturday. The number was large including both males anad females. As he has been a somewhat influential member of the Ch., it is natural that several are inclined to favor him and retain him in the church. Having been somewhat hastily excluded, he complains of the precipitation and has acquired the sympathy of several who otherwise would not have fellow-shipped his acts. On opening the meeting the first motion was to reconsider the resolution to exclude him; this was unanimously carried. It was then moved and carried unanimously to appoint a committee who should proceed forthwith to his house (he not being present) and labor with him in accordance with the usual mode of proceedure in our Ch. and return within one hour if possible to report to the meeting. Rev. Mr. Day, Dea[con] Vedder, and Brethren Webster and Pearson,the Com[mittee], called upon him and conversed an hour or more with him on the subject. His principal justification was that he had done nothing inconsistent with the laws of the State of New York. The Com'ee returned and reported to the meeting and after a full discussion till near 11 o'clock, the former action of the Ch. was affirmed nearly unanimously. 
Tuesday December 30, 1856. To Albany with wife and back again at one o'clock. A[lbany] increases in population, wealth and folly. The staid old Dutch people would be surprised to witness the extravagance and show of their descendants. 
A. is not unique in this respect. All great cities are sores upon the body politic -the sinks into which flow and settle much of the vice, crime and wealth of a country. 
Wednesday December 31, 1856. The last day of the month and year 
brings along the duty of balancing books and closing accounts for the 
past six months. All day in office at work upon my acc'ts. 
