
Thursday January 1, 1857. All day preparing circulars and receipts 
for 40 lessees at West-Troy. Made but three New Years calls -upon 
Profs.Jackson, Newman and Hickok. 
Albany etc. Friday January 2, 1857. Fair day. To WestTroy --left there the receipts at W. Troy bank -the circulars for the tenants at P.O. and a notice to be pub-lished in W. Troy Advocate. Across the ice to Troy and to Farmers Bank for half yearlyd ividend, which find is not payable till the 10th --thence by R.R. to Greenbush and across the ice to Albany. 
After lunch to Secretary of States Off[ice] and had a half hours' conversation with Dr. Hough on various matters --thence State Library and home at 7 o'clock. á 
Saturday January 3, 1857. A great and severe N.W. snowstorm all day. Not less than one foot has fallen. Dismal and dreary out but aá fair day for indoor work 
Sunday January 4, 185 7. Fine fair day with some wind. To Bapt. Ch. A.M., Rev. Mr. Day, who gave a short account or review of th~ last 10 yrs. since his pastorate commenced with this ch., showing how it had been prospered and blessed. P.M. Communion season. Tomorrow is appointed by the ch. as a day of fasting and prayer for the revival of true religion amongst us. 
Monday January 5, 1857. The winter thus far may be called a severe one --when not severely cold it is stormy These are the last days of a long and tedious vacation. It is a shame that our interruptions of study are so frequent and so long; whilst we nominally have 3 terms of 12 weeks, they are really not more than 11 w. and some times, as the last, not more than 10 w. We might mend our ways in many other respects. The college is literally managed without laws and system -discipline is loose and our standard of requirements and study is low. Our examinations are not strict and are little better than a farce. Union College never stood high for scholarship and deservedly, I believe. To those who desire to improve and will acquire knowledge for the love of it we have some advantages: for the lazy and improvident we have no terrors of law and discipline: no young [man] is ever rejected for not being prepared, none ever sent away for not studying. Only outrageous immoralities subject him to a rejection. 
Tuesday January 6, 1857. The weather is now exceedingly severe -.not only cold (-10 ¡ ) but accompanied with strong north winds which penetrate every nook and cranny. Since the graduates meeting in New York nothing has been heard of the matter of a Graduates Hall and many here begin to doubt wheth.er the whole matter has not been killed by referring it to committees, who are men of large business of their own and hav[e] no time to devote to this. We shall see when Dr. N. comes home, which he promises to do tomorrow. 
Wednesday January 7, 1857. Weather ditto. One of the severest days of the season to be exposed to. Frost and cold everywhere -.blue noses and frosty fingers. Railroading, telegraphing and posting become difficult and doubtful as to time. "As age increases, cares augment". How true! Few are constituted to bear a great variety of cares with cheerfulness. I never knew the force of this truth so well verfied as in my own case. One thing at a time I can do well and pleasantly --labor then is sweet --but more than this and the pleasure of labor is gone, fear of failure or untimeliness comes in, every straw added becomes a load. My mind is burthened with anxieties for the future. Cheerfulness is gone: Apprehension takes its place. 
Thursday January 8, 1857. Dr. and Mrs. Nott came this morning,, having rode and sat still upon the railroad all day yesterday and till 3 o'clock this morning before arriving at Albany. The cold was intense and passengers suffered severely. Still the old man of 84 seemed to stand the journey as well as others. I saw him but a moment this morning, in which time he announced that ,ithat business" (meaning the exchange of the Lowber for the Crane & Ely Mortgage) did not proceed," --that "these gentlemen up here" 
(Judge P[aige] and Mr. B.R.W[ood]) "having objected and interfered" 
etcetc. "Well, if the Trustees will approve the sacrifice of college 
interests." 
Friday January 9, 1857. Weather somewhat moderated. Few students here. One can not blame them for delaying, such weather and travelling as we have had of late. Whenever I see him [Dr. N.] recurs to "that business" as still much on his mind; the true reason of his desiring it's being done is that he had expected to realize immediately the amt. of Mr. RWL's mortgage by the sale of the lots to the corporation of N.Y.; in this he was disappointed by the want of a lawful majority. Hence there is no need of making an exchange of the mortgages. 
Saturday January 10, 185[7]. At Faculty Meeting last evening, Treas. 
Office at 4 o'clock. Present Vice Pres. Dr. Hickok, Profs. Jackson, 
Lewis, Gillespie, Peissner, Newman, Pearson and Joy. Tutors Bartlett,. 
Millard. Course of Studies for next term were read and approved. 
Adjourned. 
A Dr. Chandler of New Bedford has arrived as assistant Prof. of 
Chemistry. 
Sunday January 11, 1857. Snow all day-moderately. To Pres. Ch. in fore-noon. Dr. Backus preached. 
Monday Januaray 12, 1857. Had word from Judge P[aiage] that he wished to see me this morning just before 9 o'clock at the R.R. Depot where I found him ready to go to Albany where he is attending the Court of Appeals. The same old trouble had to be inquired into --the state of the C[rane] and Ely, and Lowber mortgages. 
I. Dr. Nott has been so busy since his return that he has communicated nothing to me in regard to this business but has 
á promised to do so tomorrow. Judge P. This exchange was improperly made and the Lowber mortgage must be handed back and re.assigned to College 
I. I will see him today or tomorrow and write you the result of my conversation. 
Tuesday January 13, 1857. Have the same two recitations that I had last [term], viz. the two divisions of the Sophomore Class in Higher Algebra. Recitation No. 10. North Collonnade, hours 10 and 11 A.M. The whole number is about 44. There are doubtless some good scholars among them but my impressions are on the whole not favorable to their progress in this study. Our present mixed classes of classical, scientific and university students are not at all favorable to uniform scholarship. Add to this our want of discipline and sifting examinations and one must be aware of the piebald complexion of students. There are doubtless few old and respectable colleges in this part of the country where reform is more needed than in U.C. We want some some literary authority which shall initiate and push forward such reforms. We have had financiering enough: the department of instruction ought now to have a little more attention as well as the apparatus for teaching generally. 
Wednesday January 14,1857. Called on [Dr. N.] in relation to the 
Lowber [mortgage] according to my promise to Judge P. 
He. I've been trying to sheild the college from a lawsuit and have put 
myself to great inconvenience to do so; now if the Trustees when 
they meet dont see fit to sanction my proceedings, they must take 
the consequences and not blame me. 
I. The present ******* of this transaction is very unsatisfactory : College seems to own nothing. Which of these two mortgages do you think belongs to College. He. Why -y -y -y -Lowber's, I suppose. 
I. But you have an assignment of that: signed, sealed, acknowledged and delivered. Suppose you were to be taken away pending this transaction and your Executor should find this bond and mortgage G\nd assignment among your effects, what would be his duty in the case? He. He ought to deliver it up to College, because the business is not yet consum \mated. 
I. He could'nt do so legally; it would be part of your effects and must be so inventoried. He. Oh, the business will be settled before long. When the Trustees meet, they will ratify what has been done. Left with no satisfaction. 
Thursday January 15, 1857. Wrote yesterday to Judge P. at Delavan Hotel, Albany, the result of yesterdays conversations with {Dr. N.] advising him to take such course as he may see fit. Much discourse with Dr. and Mrs. Nott respecting the new house which he proposes to build near front gate as President's House. As the cost of this ho[use] has been promised by certain N.Y. friends of Dr. N., he does not wish to progress any faster than the money is paid in. The stable is finished and he now proposes to let the carpenter make the doors, windows, and sash as a winter job and then await more funds. 
Friday January 16, 1857. Shocking weather all this week--cold and windy. By direction of Dr. N., revised and added to the rules sometime since made and considered by the Res. Trustees relating to the keeping of apparatus, books and other movable articles of the college property. Some irritation again respecting expenditures on Anal. Laboratory which now bid fair to swamp the college with its enormous expenses. Unlimited credit seems to be desired and insisted on, notwithstanding that our finances are in a very unsatisfactory state and promise to become worse. 
Saturday January 17, 1857. Furious wind all day --cold and dangerous to the traveller. Word from Judge P. again, to call upon him this evening, 4 1/2 o'clock P.M. at his office. Enquiries the same as before in relation. to those bonds and mortgages of C[rane] and E[ly] , and Lowber. He stated that he had seen the stipulation drawn up by Mr. Spencer and that there were made two classes of bonds and mortgages to be made over to the Trust Fund viz. one class subject to the Thayer and Flagg lawsuit, which is now terminated, and a second depending upon the Belmonte suit, which is now carried up to the Court of Appeals. He farther says Mr. Lowber has not the shadow of an excuse for not paying the interest on these bonds and mortgage, and that it is an insult upon the common sense and intelligence of the Board for him to do so and make any such excuse in justification. At his suggestion, we called to consult Dr. Backus next door, where it was agreed that Dr. B. should call upon on [Dr. N.] Monday and try to have the matter of mortgages set to rights. Called on [Dr. N.] afterwards in the evening with the view of trying to influence him myself, but refrained as I found him indisposed. 
Sunday January 18, 1857. Thermometer -12 á this morning. A.M. to Bapt. Ch., Rev. H. Day. P.M. to Pres. Ch., Rev Dr. Backus. Called upon Mr. Hiram Champion, a valuable member of Bpt. Ch., sick probably unto death of some internal chronic disorder. 
Monday January 19, 1857. During the night some 18 in. of snow fell and during the day the storm continued with the thermometer below O and a northeast wind prevailing. The "Graduates Hall" project seems to have died away; it is doubtful if it will be renewed again soon. Graduates of Union have only a stepmotherly affection for her, they leave her walls and never return, nor think more of her. Her friends doubt her financial soundness; they suspect the past money transactions and many, believing the inflated reports of her wealth. 
think no more is needed. 
Tuesday January 20, 1857. Wind, cold and snow are all the topics today. Railroads are entirely blocked up. There is a complete embargo placed upon all means of communication. Saw (Dr. N.] today in relation to the Lowber mortgages. He went over the same ground: his disinterestedness in the transaction, the doubt thrown upon the validity of the title, etc. --the whole conversation unsatisfactory, characterised with an air of ******ing and trickery. Strange 
infatuation at his age to be wholly immersed in financial scheming! 
WednesdayJanuary 21, 1857 .. This is the fourth day since we have received any mail from N.Y. I think we have never before been as long cut-off from the city since railroads were invented. Saw [Dr. N.] again today when he handed me a paper to read and sign if [I] that' proper by which I was bound to hold Lowber's bond and mortgge in trust for him to be redelivered whenever he should require it. This is a sort of compromise of the matter in dispute by which he in a manner gives back the papers and yet holds on to them. Called on Dr. Backus this evening to inquire if he had seen [Dr. N.] since our interview on Saturday last --had not, was prevented by sickness,would likely to be well enough tomorrow to see him. 
Thursday January 22,1857. Today we get news from N.Y. From all parts the rumors of cold and snow are without precedent. The temperature seems to be perfectly polar. This evening [Dr. N.] sent for me and gave me Lowber's bond and mortgage for which I gave him a receipt, declining to sign 'his paper, I suspect this result has been hurried on by Dr. B[ackus] who came up to see him today. [Dr. N.] again travelled over his old plausible and hackneyed story about his trying to do a generous thing for College and certain gentlemen wont let him. Now they must settle the matter themselves and extricate the College as they best can; he is going to do nothing more; he will withdraw entirely from college affairs and resign next Comm[encement] (an old story) 
I. I think right and proper that you should know something of the surmises had respecting this transaction and that of last March. It was well known in town not many days after the latter was consummated that $40,000 was paid into the Mohawk Bk. to meet a pressing debt of yours and it is more than suspected that that exchange of mortgages was more for your own benefit than for Coll., for the mortgage [Dr. N.] which we now hold is confessedly not so good a one as that which we gave up. It is supposed that the transaction which you now have in hand is also for your benefit as much as for the College. was struck dumb for some minutes and neither denied nor affirmed the charges. Shortly after I left. 
