
Friday January 23, 1858. A memorable morning for weather gossips. Thermometer indicated a temperature of -26 ¡, the coldest weather we have experienced here since the cold Sunday of 183.L_when the mercury stood at -28 ¡ and -32 ¡. The air was filled with a fine frosty mist till 10 or 11 o'clock when the sun shone out and the wind veered round to the south but did not remain there. The temperature has been scarcely above O all day and promises another Spitsbergen night. This whole week has been filled with anxiety and disquiet about the C. and E., and L. mortgages, and in discussing the disagreeable matter with [Dr. N.] The next will be spent in devising ways and means to pay salaries 
Saturday January 24, 1857. The thermometer this morning stood at -30 á to -34 á in different parts of the city, and the air still and filled with frosty mist. This exceeds any former records for the last 30 years at least in this city. Opened Library as usual but without fire found it severe work. Saw Vp H., who spoke of the last weeks' discussions on the Lowber mortgages with considerable decision; that the whole transaction was improper and should be put back where it was originally. Sent a note to Judge P. also on the same subject which he will get on his return from Court of Appeals now sitting at Albany. 
Sunday January 25, 1857. Thermometer showed -13 ¡ this morning which is so much better than yesterday morning that all feel encouraged with the prospect of mild weather. Awoke this morning with severe cold which showed itself last evening. In house all day and most of the time in bed. Dr. Nott preached this P.M. in the 1st Dutch Ch. and this evening a prayer meeting of professor's familieswas held at Dr. N's at which Wife and Henry and John attended. 
Monday January 26, 1857. Awoke this morning with an increase of my cold which proves a regular influenza accompanied with pain in every part of the body. Gave up thoughts of going out to my duties and lay down to be sick. The greatest pain in being sick is the loss of precious time: a life does not suffice for our work when untouched by sickness and decay. In this respect, however, I have little to complain of. God has favored me of late years with continued health. 
Tuesday January 27, 1857. Still on my back with some fever and much pain. A kind of rheumatism in my legs prevented sleep altogether last night and at times obliged me to walk the room. No appetite and no enjoyment in anything. 
Wednesday January 28, 1857. Health about the same, not able to sit up long at a time. VpH. and three of Fae. dropped in to see me. [Dr. N.?] sent Mr. Gilbert to inquire where those papers are (Lowber's Mort. etc) as he talks of going to Albany with Dr. B. to call a meeting of the Trustees in relation to the matter. I dictated an answer to him in which he is urged to carry out this suggestion and thus remove all cause of censure and criticism etc. VpH. spies a "cat in the meal tub" --this whole movement is only a ruse to recover the papers put out of his hands, to be in readiness to use them as soon as Lowber gets the Corporation of N.Y. to purchase the property. VpH went down to Dr B. who said he had heard nothing about going to Albany. VpH therefore feels sure his suspicions are well founded. 
Thursday January 29, 1857. Sickness much the same --up and down, on the bed and off, every part of me sore and a slight fever -.weak and no appetite. Swit's "Homoepath" gives a little sugar and water hourly but nature will effect the cure. My faith in physicians is much less than a grain of mustard seed and not sufficient to remove the smallest doubt respecting the usefulness of the healing art. The big-dose system of powerful drugs and chemicals is a system of the Devil to kill off people with. The little dose system doesnt do much good but becomes popular every day merely because harmless. Folks will have medicine --therefore give as little as possible and only enough to satisfy their cravings for something. 
Wrote Judge P. at Albany how matters stand and urging him to take some measures for relief promptly and efficiently. 
Friday January 30, 1857. Beginning to amend with hopes of going out tomorrow if the weather is propitious. Any man who desires to respect and revere a great man should never contemplate him except from a distance. The illusion disappears by close inspection and greatness is found associated with the most contemptible littlenesses which only the thickest cloak of charity can cover and the most exalted grace can pardon. Then again of how few and frail materials is greatness made up: wood, hay-stubble, rags, tinsel, and lofty sounds, all which the merest breath of truth will blow away into forgetfulness. A mere position often proves a mans only claim to greatness, --a position of trust and honor long held is certain greatness. Age often makes greatness and nothing else. An ordinary pastor of a city ch. who minister's dully for 20 yrs. is not heard of, except that he becomes D.D. After 40 yrs. his reputation begins to rise and when he delivers his semi-centennial sermon his greatness is at its height --all men speak of him as a remarkable example. Real greatness is scarce. 
Saturday January 31, 1857. Awoke with a severe snowstorm raging without and no hopes of going out today. Charity for others' faults and weakness is a difficult lesson to learn. So also is the habit of not suspecting anothers motives from outside appearances. How far a man ought to school his mind to avoid suspicion and to judge charitabl[y] ,it is hard to tell. If an old associate in business equivocates and r[a]ises duplicity in business transactions, must I think it a mistake, an act of forgetfulness, and think no evil? If he uses tricks and subterfuges, if he pretends falsely, am I still to suspect no evil ? 
Sunday February 1, 1857. In house all day. Family at Ch. This evening, Faculty prayer meeting at Dr. Notts. Wife, Henry and Willie there with full attendance. 
Monday February 2, 1857. Out today for the first time in more than a week. Find myself weak and quite indisposed for much labor. Attended my two recitations in Algebra as usual. Salaries are due but there is nothing to pay with. I await a meeting of the Resident Trustess to provide the means. The failure results from the lavish expenditure of the past half year and more on Laboratory, recitationá rooms etc. and the payment of extra salary to T.L[ewis], I.W.J[ackson] and certain printing bills ordered to be paid to E.N. by the Trustees at a late meeting. The financial prospects of U.C. are gloomy indeed; there is every reason now to anticipate a serious deficiency in the income to meet current expences another year. 
Tuesday February 3, 185 7. Received yesterday from Finance Committee an order to hold the bond and mortgage of Lowber and not to deliver[it] to [Lowber?] upon any account, also to call on him for the interest due on the same. Here again the complication thickens. [Dr. N.Jdesires the business to remain as it is until such time as he may be ready to exchange the mortgages --finding that the feeling is getting decided against the manner in which the late business of the exchange of mortgages was effected, he now asserts that he never intended that C and E's bond and mortgage should be a 2d. mortgage, that the prior mortgage was to have been paid off before the exchange of papers and moreover that his note for int[erest] was also to have been paid the moment the business was consummated. I must confess I know not what to believe or what to think in this matter. All [Dr. N]'s assertions as above stated seem so contrary to the general understanding of those who were present at the meeting in Albany that one is involved in a complete mist. Do words and actions have two meanings? 
Wednesday February 4, 1857. The late shockingly cold weather is now re-lenting, and what promises to be a thaw has commenced. We have not experienced such a succession of storms and intense cold forámany a years as thus far during this winter. All have suffered, not the poor only but even those in competent circumstances, for nothing would keep one warm. 
Thursday February 5, 1857. The vexationand disappointments incident to all money transactions are enough to disgust one with the very name of money. Nothing so much tries one's integrity, brings out the inordinate sel-fishness of man's nature and tests his character as money dealings. Truth, honor, and religion are often wrecked here. Our favorable opinion is turned into suspicions and hate. It ought to be a general rule of life, if you wish to think well of a man, have no money dealings with him 
Friday February 6, 1857. No money for salaries yet. At noon [Dr. N.?] desired me to give checks to Nott Trust Fund officers for their salaries. I objected on the ground that I had no funds of sufficient amt. in the Bk. to draw against He. But I have made arrangements with the Bk., you know, to receive 4 pr. ct. on deposits and give 7 pr ct. on overd[ra]fts. 
I. True, but the Trustees Rules for the Treasurer forbid his borrowing money without the sanction of the Resident Trustees. He. You do not borrow, you only overdraw your account by arrangement. 
I. An overdft. of this kind is to all intents a loan and nothing else. 
Thereupon [Dr. N.] became quite vexed, perhaps angry, and said many things indicating irritation that his projects were opposed. Mrs. also, who was present, discovered the like feeling but perhaps not so manifest. He soon made an apology for his irascible display. She asserted that I was the most obstinate man she ever saw and accounted for it on the ground that I was a Baptist, which is equivalent to an intense bbigot. At 2 1/2 o'clock saw Judge P. and asked him to give me, as Resident Trustee, an order to borrow $2000 to pay salaries, intending to [get] the signature of [Dr. N.] to the same and thus obviate all objections to an over dft. Judge P. said that had just called on him and appointed a meeting of Res. Trustees tomorrow evening and that the question of borrowing money had better be referred to them. Reported what I had done to [Dr. N.?] as he was annoyed at C.A. J[oy]'s importunity for his salary, agreed to give him a ck. for it to be drawn against a small deposit remaining in Mohawk Bk. At this interview [Dr. N.] talked much about the late transfer of mortgages, saying that he intended to have the prior lien paid and his note for int[erest] cashed before the business was consummated. He also gave me a paper to read and comment upon in which he gave his views as regards the note for interest. Left and in the evening answered his paper in writing. 
Saturday February 7, 185 7. This morning started for West Troy by way of Albany, at 9.15 am. This round about became necessary as no train left for T. till eleven or thereabouts. Reached A[lbany] at 10.15 and started for West Troy at 10.30 by Northern R.R. At 11 o'clock drew $406.25 rents which had been paid in for U. Coll and started for home from Green Island Station at 11.45. Home at 12.45. In evening at 7 1/2 at Judge Paige's Office where the Res. Trustees were to meet. Unfortunately only Dr. Nott and Judge P. of the Trustees were present --not a quorum. Mr. Cochrane was in the country delivering a lecture and Dr. Backus away at Philadelphia. Besides myself, Dr Hickok was present as Vice Pres't. After a few minutes conversation Dr. H. and myself retired, leaving Dr. N. and Judge P. to talk over matters together. 
Sunday February 8, 1857. A.M. at Bapt. Ch., heard Rev. Mr. (?], a Methodist clergyman from Cincinnati 0. and in the P.M. ,Rev. Dr. Scott of Dublin, Ireland, another Methodist minister in the Pres. Ch. Their object in visiting and preaching in the various Chs. of Schen. is to raise funds for the Methodist Ch. in Ireland in aid of their missions a.mong their Roman Catholic countrymen. The discourse of Dr. S. was well adapted to the purpose. In the evening to Bapt. Ch. where Mr. Day preached, rest of family to prayer meeting at Dr. Nott's house. 
Monday February 9, 1857. Some years since,, about the time Dr. Hickok came here, much talk was had about a super-graduates course in U.C. The plan was sketched and published, and the time was set for its beginning: to this time however it has amounted to nothing and probably will these many years to come. The funds which were long since promised are not forth-com-ing and will not be for some time to come. Dr. H., who has favored this project, has lectured from time to time on Psychology and kindred subjects to a few persons who happen to be resident here. This term his lectures come twice a week and are attended by some half-dozen persons -.one or =two clergymen from town, the two tutors etc. 
Tuesday February 10, 1857. The uncomfortable state of affairs in 
U.C.so far as it regards the management of certain financial matters is getting in-tolerable. From a difference of opinion merely as it respects the expediency of certain measures, it has now come to a want of confidence in the strict integrity of actions and intentions. So bad a state of things I have never before seen. When faith in [a?] man is gone, it is then time to cease acting and dealing with him. 
Wednesday February 11, 1857. In view of all the bickering and disagreements among the powers-that-be in U.C., I often feel like leaving abruptly and never returning to a place so redolent of unpleasant memories, of gossip and******* feelings. Standing betwn. the parties, I am crushed and ground as betwn. the upper and nether mill-stones. It is impossible to please both, and sometimes not one. Among other difficulties, the payment of the Nott Trust Fund Professors affords much annoyance. There is no money for them, and the Resident Trustees, who alone have the power to borrow neglect (some purposely) to authorise the Treasurer to borrow for this purpose. One says overdraw your account at the bank: to which I say, when the Res. Trustees authorise it. Another says, you have no right to overdraw without authority: and/or Mr. Lowber should provide the means; another ls out of town, and so we go. In the meantime the Professors are in serious trouble. 
Thursday February 12, 1 857. Thus far this week the weather has been mild and spring-like. The two leading events furnishing much talk are the great flood on the Hudson and other rivers and the Burdell or Bond St. murder in New York. Last Sunday night the ice passed down the Mohawk and Hudson. At Albany the water was higher than ever known before and did immense damage and caused much distress to families along the low streets. The Bond St. murder in N.Y. on Jan. 30 has afforded food for newpaper mongers now almost two weeks. The Coroner's inquest seems interminable and much more resembles a court for trial than a preliminary investigation. Most people imagine that great crimes are on the increase not only here but in Europe. Is luxury and extravagance, show and haste to be rich working out these fearful results? Is there a relaxing of the penalties for crime and a less sure meting out of conviction and punishments in our courts than of old? Some think so. 
Friday February 13, 1857. Saw Judge A.L. Linn today, who inquired for a College publication of ancient date called the "Floriad" which, he says, was edited and written by the students of Union College. This is a magazine I had never heard of before and so told him. He says he is editing an edition of his father's ( Dr.Linn of N.Y.) works with a biography and desires to obtain a sketch of his fa[ther] which was printed in the F[loriad]. He says his fa[ther] was a patron of Dr. Nott and was the means of getting him appointed to the Presidency of U.C., thereby showing his discernment. 
Saturday February 14, 1857. A lovely spring day too fine to last long. All day in the Tr. office. Wm. M. G[illespie] is now moving for a study back of his engineering room to be built in the spring, the expense,, say $300. He offers to pay interest upon it until College gets able to assume the cost. Blessed be the man who can live without having money transactions with anyone, independentand free from obligations. Let no man hope to maintain the good opinion of another if he has any intercourse with him involving the handling of "filthy lucre." It is rightly named! for its filth defiles the conscience, besmears integrity, and soils the purest friendship that ever existed. 
Sunday February 15, 1857. Lovely day, threatening rain (in the morning) which did not come. A.M. To Bpt. Ch., Rev. H.G. Day and thin congregation. The fact I think has been verified by past experience that Bapt. principals are not popular in Schen. They are new comparatively to the people and it will take many years to educate a generation in them. P.M. to Pres. Church where heard Dr. á Hickok. "If I will that ye tarry till I come, what is that to thee; follow 
thou me." 
Evening at 6 1/2 at Bapt. Ch., Rev. Mr. Day. "Why will ye die?" 
--a larger congregation and a good sermon. Wife and Ch[ildre]n. to 
Dr. Ns. to prayer meeting. 
Monday February 16, 185 7. Among the gossip of Coll is that Prof. C.A.J[oy] has gone to N.Y. for the purpose of presenting himself to the Trustees of [the] Columbia College as Prof. of Chemistry. The reason given for this movement is that he is not well used by certain of the 
Faculty and Trustees, that his labors and department are not properly appreciated, and that his accounts are not allowed etc. In all of which there is some truth especially from the view which he takes of the matter. In regard to the difference betwn. him and the Treasurer upon the subject of his accts, both have good reason [to] be aggrieved that the Resident Trustees have not before adjusted the matters in dispute. More than a year they have been suffered to remain a fruitful source of irritation and complaint. 
Tuesday February 17, 1857. How little truth one finds in history, biog-raphies and epitaphs! An estimate of a man's character derived from letters private and not intended for publication (as Horace Walpole's appear to have been) may with propriety be accepted; but ordinarily, what with sup-pression and inordinate praise, a false gloss is put upon the character and doings of public [men?] It may justly be said that to put forth prominently a great mans faults would dim the luster of his greatness as well as wound the feelings of his friends: True! then let his history remain unwritten: The suppression of an important fault in his character is as much a lie to the unsuspecting public [as] the relation of real untruths in his praise. It is this unvarying eulogy passed upon men's lives that makes biography,, which otherwise ought to be most instructive and entertaining reading, so tame, monotonous and suspicious. Angels of goodness do not exist here, and no mortal can be made such with a due regard for trut 
Wednesday February 18, 1857. I have now been more than 25 years con-nected with Un. College but never in all that time felt so thoroughly uncomfortable and dispirited as within the last months. The tussle betwn. "the powers that be" in relation to certain financial transactions, the criminations and recriminations, the whisperings, ill feelings, and want of confidence are sufficient to disgust one with the whole concern, U.C. and all belonging to it. As agent of the Coll., of course I must suffer, standing as I do between the parties and exposed to their cross fires. 
Thursday February 9, 1857. Heard today of the death of an aged uncle, Samuel Libbey (mothers' oldest bro.) of Epson, N.H. He died of the gravel of which he has long complained --age about seventy.five. He served in the last war of 1812 and there contracted camp fever and otherwise became dis-abled so that for many years before his death he could do but little labor. But two of my Grandfather Libbey's ch[ildre]n now remain --Mother and Uncle William of N.J. 
Friday February 20, 1857. Prof. G[illespie] revives his project of an addition to his engineering rooms for a study and proposes to pay the interest upon a loan sufficient to do it --cost $450. John Nott now for some 2 or 3 years has resided in Va. near Richmond. He receives $200 quarterly from his father; but (characteristically!) it has to be paid thro' my hands. 
Saturday February 21, 1857. The weather of March --mild, tho' chilly and raw. Thawing moderately. All day writing dunning letters which will do little good probably. College fast-day comes next Thursday. Rev. Dr. Hague has consented to preach on that occasion in College Chapel. This week has witnessed another of those shameful church fairs at which lotteries, raffles, and other abominations were practiced to raise money for pious purposes! A parsonage for the Episcopal Ch. was the occasion. For a rich congregation such things are anything but creditable, especially as a house and lot has just 
been bequeathed to them worth $2500 to $3000. 
Sunday February 22, 1857. Morning to Bapt. Ch., Rev. Mr. Day. P.M. to Pres. Ch., Dr Backus. Evening at College Chapel to hear Dr. Hickok address the students preliminary to college-fast next week. An extemporaneous effort --too wordy, not so good as his written discourses. 
Monday February 2 3, 18 5 7. Today I have finished my 43d year. There is no properer point for review than this. In so doing I can say God has prospered me and given me his favor and countenance. My health has been preserved: my labors have been blessed: troubled and afflictions have been light; the lives and health of my family have been vouchsafed. I can ask no more: I owe Him my gratitude and love, the only acceptable return I can make. When one reaches his 44th year he may well look towards the future of life with some apprehension of its being prolonged: if wise he may well prepare for his last journey. 
Tuesday February 24, 1857. Many years since, I began to make some inquiries into my family history, without looking however for any facts particularly gratifying to my vanity or family pride: for I have met with only honest mechanics and farmers. The learned professions have been graced by very few of the names and these of not much prominence. Nevertheless it is well for every man to have some hobby or lazy-work : when the sterner business of life is done for the day, it is pleasant to have some light recrea-tion, not altogether labor nor yet absolutely play. Genealogical studies are of such a nature with me. I am too poor to spend much money or daylight upon them; yet as a pastime, they relieve the wearisomeness of harrassing business and make one forget unpleasant realities of everyday life. 
Wednesday February 25, 1857. After all, the importance of most human enterprises is relative and dependent upon our estimation of them; should they be tried by some perfect standard, how many of those that are usually accounted important would fail to come up to this standard? Moral and religious truths aside, the arts of living and human projects are much on a par of importance. They are not therefore any the less pushed: honor and wealth which cannot add a moment to mans measure of happiness are just as eagerly sought as bread or meat by the poor famishing wretch who struggles for mere life alone. The study of "endless genealogies" is, of course, one of those pursuits commonly considered neither important nor useful because forsooth it leads to nothing practical, i.e. brings no money, that standard of all human excellence. Like many other labors it simply ministers to ones pleasure but being both innocent and harmless is a perfectly legitimate pursuit. 
Thursday February 26, 18571. This is "College Fast Day," the day that has been set apart these many years by the common consent of most Christian Churches for prayer for our Literary Institutions. At U.C.our services have always been a sermon in College Chapel at 10 o'clock by some clergyman from: abroad; prayer meeting in the P.M. in town and preaching in the evening by the same minister. Today Rev. Dr. Hague of Albany preached but, wife being sick, I did not leave the house. As to the religious state and influence of U.C., my experience of 25 years gives no very favorable impres-sion of it; in so saying, of course, I condemn myself. Neither our Pres. nor Professors have ever to my knowledge put forth any extraordinary or even ordinary efforts for the religious culture of the students. The only revival of religion I ever knew in college was Mr. Knapp's in 1837, in which the Professors were by no means prominent. There are some reasons not usually applicable to colleges why our professors do not take a prominent part in religious culture. U.C. is looked upon as the result of the united efforts of the religious denominations of the State. An active stirring Christian professor might be looked upon by the rest as a proselyter; in the effort therefore to avoid the appearance of undue influence, no attempt whatever is made to improve the religious state of College. In a religious point of view Colleges patronized by a single sect or at least understood to belong to such have the advantage over a Catholic College, because their professors will usually belong to the dominant sect and impart religious instruction freely and without fear of censure. 
Friday February 2 7, 185 7. Wife still weak, feverish, and nervous. In the house most of the day with her. Nothing new in College the past week; like a great factory, from the beginning to the end of the year it moves on thro' the same prescribed routine, thro' the same daily exercises, the same hourly bells ringing , the same professors trotting to their recitation rooms; and the Finance Committee have not yet affected a settlement of the mortgage question. Last Saturday eveng was appointed for a meeting but Mr. Delavan of Albany did not come. 
Saturday February 28, 1857. Wife taken worse this P.M., great nervous excitement, weakness, fever. Mr. and Mrs. Magoun came this evening on a short visit. Tonight was appointed another Finance Committee meeting at Judge Paige's office when I trust the mortgage and other business will be settled. Among other items which need attention are the accounts of Prof.Joy and Treasurer, a source of much irritation and feeling for more than a year past. Neither have been justly treated by this neglect; both have cause of complaint against the committee for thus leaving a constant cause of irritation when a word of theirs would bring peace. 
Sunday March 1, 185 7. Wife much worse, greatly excited, agitated, feverish. I did not sleep during the whole night, indeed did not undress. Towards 9 P.M. became quieter. Not out to church during the day. 
Monday March 2, 1857. Mr. and Mrs. Magoun left at 9 A.M. for home (Hudson). Wife much quieter today, tho' weak and nervous. By her bedside all day, not on the "Hill" at all. VpH. called and informed me that there [was] nothing done at the Finance Committee meeting on Sat. even'g. owing to the absence of some members. 
The working out of the genealogy of a single family for two hundred years is a labor like that of Hercules. The sources of information in my case are far distant: the Pearsons first settled in Essex Co., Mass. Much must necessarily by done by letters of which hundreds have to be written sometimes 2 or three tmes over. Many persons answer imperfectly, some not all. Ancient records are to be consulted and transcripts made. Deeds, wills, and letters to be compared, old people questioned, discrepancies reconciled; and after collecting an immense mass of facts they are to be digested and arranged, copied and corrected. I would never advise any one who loves his ease to undertake the searching out of his pedigree; such labor can only be performed by one who loves work, order, and the dust of antiquity. 
Tuesday March 3, 1857. Wife some better, still weak and confined 
most of the day to her bed. 
The Pearsons or Piersons of New England are cheifly if not 
entirely descended from four First Settlers, viz. (1) Rev. Abraham 
P[ea]ierson, 1639; (2) John of Lynn and Reading, 1639; (3) 
Bartholomew of Watertown and Woburn, 1640; (4) John of Rowley, 
1643. The Piersons of Conn., N.Y. and N.J. are cheifly if not entirely 
derived from the 1st. Those from the 2d. and 4th are found in every 
state west of Massachusetts. I have no means of knowing the. 
relationship of these First Settlers. Since the 1st. aaand 2d. were at 
Lynn at the same time, 1639, one might suppose it probable that 
they were related. It is a mere guess, however. I am able to trace no 
descendants from Bartho[Iomew] beyond his children who were 
born at Woburn and Watertown. Of those two some certainly died 
young and the two others born betwn. 1650 and 1660 -Joseph and 
Jonathan, may ... 
Wednesday March 4, 185 7. . .. or may not have had children. No records as yet settle this point with certainty. The movement of our northern population is towards the West, very little towards the South. Thus the early migrations of the Pearsons of Essex Co. were into New Hampshire and á later to Vermont where many families now reside. From Vt. and N.H. they passed to N.Y. and thence to Ohio, Wisconsin and beyond the Mississippi. One family alone I have á traced [to] the vicinity of Pittsburgh, Pa. from which an offshoot took root in Wheeling, Va. a few years since. The Pearsons of Pennsylvania are believed to be of Quaker origin, descendents of one of Wm. Penn's followers who came to America near the close of the 17th century. Those of the name in N.C. and farther South seem to have had still another origin or perhaps several, altho' few of the name seem to have the means of tracing their pedigree far beyond 
their fathers. 
ThursdayMarch 5, 1857. Beyond this country nothing is known of any of the name beyond a few unimportant facts. Ab[raha]m Pierson 
is called a Yorkshireman and graduate of Univ. of Cambridge, Eng. He 
is said to have received ordination at Newark, South Britain. John 
Pearson of Rowley has also been called a Yorkshireman and it is 
supposed a parishioner of Rev. Ez. Rogers of Rowley, Eng'd. or at least 
a near neighbor of the same. A search among the records of the 
parish can alone determine the trut[h of these suppositions. Wm. 
Paver Esqr. cl[er]k of the City York, Eng'd. has promised to look for 
the Rowley Ch-urch] Registers, and examine the wills in the Wills 
Office of York with reference to the discovery of Jno. Pearson's 
parentage. 
Friday March 6, 1857. Wife still an invalid much of the time in bed; but slowly gaining strength. It is now some five years ,nearly six, since I have had a vacation of more than a few days, during all my Treasurership from April 1851. I have deemed it my duty to be constantly present. I now propose to myself, God willing, on account of my wife's ill health to make a few weeks sojourn upon the seashore next summer. To accomplish a double purpose, I also intend fixing upon a spot on the Essex Co. coast [in] Mass. so that I may have ~ opportunity to consult the records of that county for genealogical facts. This plan, however, may not be carried out, but if nothing prevents more than I now foresee, I hope to accomplish it. 
Saturday March 7,1857. Wife still in bed, weak, and nervous, a little stronger however than yesterday. Call from Judge Paige who says [Dr. N.?] was with him nearly all the forenoon talking about the exchange of mortgages and other financial matters. Judge P. seems inclined to yeild the point to [Dr. N.] provided certain conditions are fulfilled, such as the payment of interest due on the mortgage etc .. Most heartily do I hope this bone of contention will be removed, for it has disturbed my peace this two months and brought me betwixt two contending parties to the danger of my position and quiet. At home with wife a part of the day. 
Sunday March 8,1857. At home all day with sick wife. Read some chapters in Spraque's Annals of the American Pulpit, a work of merit and great painstaking, yet not so readible in large quantities by reason of its sameness. It should be taken in small doses and at intervals, or consulted as a Dictionary or Cyclopedia. I have but little confidence in personal history any more than civil history; the former seems to be written under the notion that nothing bad shall ever be exposed to the public in the heros' character and every virtue shall be puffed to inordinate dimensions. 
Monday March 9, 1857. The progress of the financial difficulty in 
U.C.relating to the exchange of the $40,000 mortgage seems near a termination: [Dr. N.J and Judge P[aige] have come to an understanding and the former goes to N.Y. this evening with the papers. For nearly 6 years there has been continual friction in the management of our finances. The spirit of the two contending powers is as different as light from darkness: the one seeks to conduct affairs in that loose, irresponsible manner which has charac-terised our financial condition for many years; the other, believing in the strict accountability of Trustees, strives to deal with great caution in money matters. These differences have gone on from bad to worse until now one party loses confidence not only in the good judgement but in the honesty of the other. 
Tuesday March 10, 1857. In my own case there is much to cause disquiet and disgust. Being between two contending parties, however much I desire it, I can not have peace and quietness. I must get blame from one or both. Moreover the exhibition of not only the weaknesses of human nature, but the littlenesses, the quasi.falsehoods, the lamentable forgetfulness of former statements, broken promises: all these and more make one sick of hero-worship and the very name of a great and good man. Where is a great and good man to be found? These eminent qualities are hardly ever combined: there is but one great man in a century, altho' many notorious ones. If you have an idol that you worship and reverence, come not nigh it: bow before and reverence it at a distance lest you discover the daubing of paint, the tinsel and bare materials of its structure. I have learned more in the last six years than during all my life before of the hollow and empty pretensions of human greatness and goodness, of the mean motives and low practices of even those who pass for the greatest and best of men. 
Wednesday March 11, 1857. Wife getting better slowly. 
[Dr. N.], who went to N.Y. on Monday night, returned last night and to Albany this morning. There seems to be a screw loose in the mortgage business again of which I am heartily sorry. It has been a most unfortunate business and one productive only of evil: destroying that mutual trust in the good intentions and frank, open dealing of those conserned. 
Thursday March 12, 1857. Little or no snow, weather moderately cold, plenty of raw March winds. The prevailing matter of importance now agitating the public mind is the new and startling decision of the U.S. Supreme Court in regard to colored men and slaves. By it, slavery is made national. freedom sectional; there is citizenship for the meanest white man but not for the negro, however white may be his soul. Nothing so much shows the benumbing effect [of] this "sum of all human vlllanies," like this. deliberate well weighed opinion of a majority of these Judges. The great strides of the slave power towards universal dominion in this country are clearly made manifest. 
Friday March 13, 1857. The College Library is opened this term twice a week for one hour each time viz. from 9 to 10 A.M. on Fridays and Saturdays. This is but a mean tribute to the usefulness of books in obtaining an education. U.C. is more than 60 years old and her library contains less than 9000 vols., many of which are in poor condition and worthless. Thousands have been lavished upon buildings ready to fall and on grounds of no earthly use in an education, on a flower garden etc. whilst not one thought seems to have been bestowed upon the very foundation and means of acquiring an education. 
Saturday March 14. 1857. Edward Everett is announced to lecture in Albany the coming week on Washington for the benefit of the Washington Monument at Washington, tickets $1. ea. The idea of honoring his memory is well enough altho' I do not think he needs a monument : but to erect such a pile of stones as the designers contemplate is both absurd and a disgrace to the architectural taste of the country. 
Sunday March 15, 1857. With wife all day. She now takes part of her meals at the table. Weather mild. Boys at Ch., Sabbath sch. and prayer meeting at Dr Lewis' in the evening. 
Monday March 16 1857. Signs of rain, but little of it. 
Invitation from Mr. Delavan of Albany to a party to meet Mr. Everett (Edwd.) this evening. Declined on account of sickness [of] wife. All day the College has been in a hubbub on account of a mild case of varioloid discovered in No. Sec. (J.C. Taylor). As it is near the close of the term, this is considered a real godsend, to help break up the session and close without examination and review. The aim of the authorities was to get the patient out of College before any danger of infection and, after much looking about, he was taken to the Roemer house, east of College, this evening where proper care can be taken of him. Whether this will stop the row in College remains to be seen. I fear the occasion is too good to be lightly given up --to break up college. 
Tuesday March 1 7, 185 7. The cause being removed, so the excitement about small pox has very much subsided. In all my experience of College I have found it quite easy to get up a panic in College the 10th or 11th week of the session. Then there is hope of breaking up the exercises and shortening term without examinations. These boisterous demands have been too easily yeilded to in more cases, and when the term has been shortened thereby, the loss has never been made up by lengthening the succeeding session. In theory our terms are twelve weeks long; in practice, but 11 weeks .making 33 weeks to the year with three vacations amounting to 19 weeks. This is considered too much vacation by all the professors. whereas the President always favors short terms and long recesses. Wednesday March 18, 1857. Telegraph yesterday that wifes' fa[ther] and mo[ther] (Harvey) will make us a short visit on Thursday. A bill has been introduced into the Legisture for the incorporation of an Alumni Society of Union College; this I suppose is the fruit of the meeting held in N.Y. last winter (Dec.) for raising $25,000 to build a Graduates Hall. Many friends of U.C. look for little more at present financially; they think there is a want of confidence in management of the material interests of College and therefore will not trust their money to such unsafe hands. We shall see whether this be so. It is certainly no credit to U.C. or her graduates that this first appeal should not meet with a prompt and favorable response. 
Thursday March 19, 1857. Fa[ther] and Mo[ther] (in-law) Harvey came to-day from N.Y. Whipping in public schools does not seem to be tolerated as it once was. I have known several teachers to be prosecuted for assault in this city, altho' without conviction, and another case of the same kind has happened today. Mr. Maxfield, one of the teachers in our Union School, is prosecuted for whipping a son of Mr. Ins. Hancher and an appeal is taken to a higher court. Except in cases of manifest cruelty, it is evidently the part of prudence for the parent to uphold the discipline of the school and listen to no complaints from his children. I am inclined to the opinion, however, that in a community like ours, it would be better to dispense with severe corporal punishment and dismiss the culprit from the school under authority of the Commissioners. 
Friday March 20, 1857. The snow has nearly disappeared except where the drifts of last winter lay smouldering away. On the whole, spring opens favorably without extremes of either kind. The Hudson is again navigable. 
Saturday March 21, 1857. Fa[ther] and Mo[ther] H. started for home (N.Y.) and I for W. Troy at 9 A.M. At W. Troy at 10 and served notices of ejectment on occupants of lots 97 and 342 for nonpayment of rent. While waiting at the W.T[roy] R.R. Depot for the train for Albany (11.40 A.M.) one of the citizens announced the fact that the ammunition and arms for the Nicaraguan Fillibusters of Walker were cheifly manufactured [in Troy?] This business is said to have commenced as long ago as the Cuban expedition and has been at times very prosperous. For many months there have been 60 men at work making ball cartridges which were shippped to N.Y. in boxes marked "K.O." or "O.K." Cannon balls and bomb shells were cast in Troy where also muskets were repaired and made. The late ill.success of Walker however seems to [have] stopped the supply of funds. Hitchcock and Co., large dealers in arms and ammunition in 
N.Y.and said to have been the cheif agent for supplies for Walker, having "failed," two or three Troy and W. Troy firms connected with him in the nefarious business have followed --among others, Meneeley's Sons, bell-founders, who inherited a fortune and a prosperous business from their father. 12 o'clock at Albany by Northern R.R. and to the Capitol where handed the Yearly Report of Trustees of U.C. to Mr. Littlefield from Jeff. Co. to be presented to the Assembly at the proper time. Spent most of the afternoon in examining the books of the State Library; a vast [number?] many good ones but singularly arranged on the shelves: alphabetically according to authors without much regard to size or height. Home at 
7. P.M. 
Sunday March 22, 1857. Lovely day for the season. In the morning á to Bapt. Ch., Rev. Mr. Day. Not much comfort in worship for a craz[ed] drunken man before me; and a frowsy sickening smell from a filthy individual behind me. P.M. at home with wife who has not been to church since her sickness. Boys up to the College prayer meeting this 
evening at Dr. Lewis' house. 
Monday March 23, 1857. From time to time have examined into the past financial standing of U. Coll. about which more ill blood has been expended these past 25 years than about any other institution in this state. I find that the College commenced with a net Capital of about $36,000, cheifly in bonds and mortgages & subscriptions accounted good. In 1802 the amount had risen to $100,000; from that time till 1824, I find no Treasurer's report giving a statement of the property of the College. In 1824 the net capital, exclusive of buildings and grounds used for College purposes, was $219,000 ; it gradually increased and in 1845 reached the sum of $485,000 when all at once it fell off to $118 000 and 115,000. 
Tuesday March 24, 1857. It then commenced ascending again but down to this time has not materially improved. Indeed after an experience of 6 years I find the capital decreasing, slowly but surely. Extraordinary drafts upon the Treasury are continually made by the heedless votes of the Board cheifly at the suggestion of [Dr. N.] for whose benefit or gratification they are cheifly made. There are some remarkable features in the financial reports of the last 40 years: more especially when taken in connection with the huge Lottery transactions. One hand can be seen in them all. A vein of untruth runs thro' the whole series of transactions. 
Wednesday March 25, 1857. The attempt is evident --to swell the property of Coll. and make a flaming report of the wonderful feats of the Agent of Un. Coll. in managing her finances and swelling her capital. One of the most sin-gular feats of financing discovered in these accounts, is the capitalizing of our current expences. From 1824 to 1850 the amt. reported as expended for the construction of buildings was in the neighborhood $200,000, whereas in all that time no buildings of any note were erected. To make out this enormous expenditure the ordinary repairs were charged to [the] construction account. 
Thursday March 26, 1857. Such a method of keeping accounts either originated in fraud or the grossest ignorance. To say that our buildings cost for construction $350,000, including ground and all permanent property not for sale, is to insult the intelligence and common sense of the most superficial observer. 
Friday March 27,1857. This evening held what is called a faculty meeting. Present Vp. Hickok in the Chair (Pres. being absent). Professors Lewis, Jackson, Foster, Gillespie, Newman, Peissner, Pearson, Joy; Tutors Millard, Bartlett. 
Order of Examination (!) was read over and approved of -.adjourned to next Tuesday eve, at 5 o'clock to consider the standing of the several classes. Today released 3 Lots from Crane and Ely's mortgage by the pay-ment of prin[cipal], $225 each, $675 and interest accrued from Jan. I. to Mar.7, 8.80 : $683.80 Took E Nott's check and am to hold it till he goes to N.Y. for the purpose of trying to reinvest it in other bonds and mortgages on Crane and Ely's lots. 
Saturday March 228, 1857. Prof. of Engineering (W.M.G.) is now moving for an enlargement of his rooms, to cost $500. He desires the addition to be made at the back of No. Colonnade next of Phil. Hall. 50 x 14 ft. and one low story high. He offers to pay the interest on the cost, so long as he stays in Un. College. Dr. N. to carry out the above project moves for a meeting of Res. Trustees tonight. Accordingly notified Judge. P., Mr. Cochrane and Dr. Backus. 8 o'clock at Dr. B's study where found Dr. B. and Dr. N. alone; the latter proposed to postpone the meeting as Judge P. was not present and Mr. C[ochrane] could not come by reason of a prior engagement. I proposed that whatever was desirable to be done should be committed to writing in the form of an order upon the Treasurer and signed by each Trustee singly if he thought proper. This was assented to; and adjourned. Saw Judge P. a few moments afterwards. 
Sunday March 29, 1857. In forenoon to Bapt. Church, heard Mr. Day. Much an-noyed by a discord of foul scents proceeding from the occupant of a pew behind me so that my mind was much distracted from what was said. Home with wife all the rest of the day and evening. Boys out to prayer meeting at Prof. Lewis' in even'g. Lovely day. Took a short walk wife in P.M. to let her breath[e] the air. 
Monday March 30, 1857. Commenced this morning what is usually called the Examination of the Freshman Class at 9 o'clock and at night both the Freshman and Sophomore classes were finished! This examination consists of a recitation of about 3/ 4 to 1 hour in length conducted by the Professor without anyone being present but the class. In some cases, perhaps, a fellow professor may drop in. Between 3 and S o'clock P.M. I despatched my Sophomore class in Algebra, the class considering the Examination (?) a good joke. 
Tuesday March 31, 1857. The Junior and Senior Examinations were finished today, the only Examiner from abroad being young Mr. (Rev.) Chas H. Taylor of Ballston Centre. The usual routine of college duties was enlivened today by an unusual occurence --no less than the presentation of a $60 silver pitcher (accompanied by speeches from both sides) to Prof. Joy by his class in Chemistry. It is presumed this mark of esteem ls due to the appreciation which the class have of the professor's talents and happy mode of teaching. The President, however, somewhat marred the success of the affair by sending to the Professor just before the commencement of it a copy of a college law forbidding any Professor's receiving a gift from students. The pitcher however was received by the Professor not for himself but for "the representative of a foreign court" -ie. for his wife!! 
Wednesday April 1, 1857. College was dismissed at 8 1/2 o'clock and before night were nearly all on their way home. Among the Professors the topic of conversation is the "Silver Pitcher" spoken of yesterday and the various performances before and at the presentation. Such an affair of course could not take place without exciting much feeling among the rest of the faculty, especially as this is the first thing of the kind within the remembrance of the oldest professor. As anger may dwell in godlike hearts, so envy is natural to the best of men That a young man who has taught but six months should receive tokens of respect witheld from men who have spent from 10 to 50 years in their professions seems strange and unaccountable. 
Thursday April 2, 1857. "The cat is out is out of the bag." Why was that pitcher presented? The story runs thus: Prof. J. in a thoughtless moment announced to his class that his department was opposed by some of the faculty; probably this opinion was also fostered by some friend of his and instilled in to willing ears. It was sometime since believed that the main opponent was the Vice-Pres. Hence the class, to show their spite to him and áothers, not for any high opinion of Professor j's scientific attainments, resolved upon this unusual course. Such is the reason as given by themselves. They create themselves into a body guard of Prof. J. to protect him against the assaults of his brother Professors! Such is the wisdom of boys. 
Friday April 3, 1857. [Dr. N.] is in Albany this week looking after the Harbor Commission Bill which he says will possibly very much injure property on which College has mortgages. When will this eternal turmoil and squabble about financial matters of Union College cease? It would seem impossible to go on 6 months without having a screw loose and a regular quarrel among the powers-that-be about money matters. One desires to do as he pleases and expects all others to fall in; they rebel and say no; the wheels are thus blocked. 
Saturday April 4, 1857. Today hoped to be in Hudson on a visit to bro.-in-law Magoun, detained by the expectation of Res. Trustees meeting tonight --failed because Judge Paige did not come home. One important item of business is to determine whether Prof. Gillespies' engineering rooms shall be enlarged by an addition of the back thus 
--DRAWING HERE-.
The cost will be $500 to $600 on which Prof. G. proposes to pay 
interest. 
Last Tuesday night Faculty met at S o'clock in Treasury Office and passed upon the standing and conduct of the students. All present but President. 
Sunday April 5, 1857. Southwind all day. To Bapt. Ch in forenoon. 
HudsonN.Y. Monday April 6, 1857. Started this morning at 9 o'clock with wife for Hudson on a short visit to bro.-in-law Magoun. Arrived at 12 M. in a moderate rain which increased to atorrent in the P.M. Found my relatives well. Magoun after leaving College went to Hudson and entered the office of Sutherland and McClelland: in due time he was admitted to the practice of law and opened an office of his own. It is now some 1 S years since he commenced his profession, his business is large and constantly increasing. 
Tuesday April 7, 1857. Weather raw; no rain. The most tedious of all work is visiting. I feel at a perfect loss for my daily labor. To while away the day, took up "Story of Bills and hastily skimmed it over. It seems a learned work and to exhaust the subject: nevertheless it is very wordy and might safely be condensed into half the space, so it seems to me. Hudson is just such another slow place as Schenectady; it has no elements within itself of increase and only depends upon the trade of the back country for existence. The "Iron Works" is the principal manufactory; with two stacks they make about 40 to SO tons per day. 
Wednesday April 8, 1857. Having cursorily read "Story on Bills" to while the time, took up a book called the Trial of Queen Caroline. This celebrated case which so agitated the English people took place in 1820 and lasted 40 days before the House of Lords. No one can read this book, altho' published by the partisans of the Queen, without believing her guilty of most grossly improper conduct. She was evidently a coarse, vulgar woman without refinement or delicacy, and the reason why she was not condemned to divorce was doubtless owing to the intimidations of the populace and the sympathy of the people. He was a notoriously profligate and base fellow, and his suit against the Queen was looked upon more in the light of persecution than a desire for justice. 
Thursday April 9, 1857. Intended to go home today but remained at the earnest solicitation of my Sister. Saw Mrs. Peek, formerly Miss Bridget Purcell of Schenectady. She came to H[udson] some 15 years since and opened a female school which she lately passed over into the hands of her sister-in-law, Miss Peek. Called upon Mr. Wm. W. Hannah, silversmith and watchmaker. He was born and bred in Schenectady, the son of a Scotchman who died not many years back at an advanced age. .
Schenectady Friday April 10, 1857. Started for home at 10.22 A.M. anad arrived at 12.40 P.M., found all well. Since I have been absent two notable events have happened. 1st. The City Election [by?]which the "Know Nothings" have another lease of power for the coming year, and 2d. an uncommon commotion among the "Hill People" and others about a new fence which Dr. Nott had ordered to be placed from the east[er]ly corner of my lot to the stone post near the "blue gate, the entrance to College Park. It was the intention of Dr. N., by building a high fence there, to keep unruly boys and young from encroaching upon college lands especially on Sunday. When Reagles, the College Superintendant, commenced the work, it was objected to by certain professors and others that the view of the Park would be obstructed by it and as Dr. N. was away the Resident Trustees were appealed to, to stop the work and alter the line, which was accordingly done by placing it about 6 ft. farther back. The moral of all this is that there are as many cheifs in College matters as there are officers. 
Saturday April 11, 185 7. I learn that Dr. and Mrs. N. left here for Albany on the 6th. (Monday) and from thence to New York on the 8th, Wednesday, where he will probably remain till 1st of May. Saw Judge P. today and learned from him a very subtle trick of [Dr. N]'s to lessen my standing with himself and Dr. B[aukus], one of the Trustees. On the 28th of Jan. last I wrote a frank and friendly private letter for which on the 30th of Jan. he thanked me very cordially in an answer to it. This letter he now pretends to consider disrespectful to himself and has read it to Dr. B. for the purpose of prejudicing his mind against me. I was astonished when I heard of it and could hardly believe my own hearing: [Dr. N.] has never hinted to me any such opinion as he states to others and I was quite unprepared for it. At Judge P's request I gave him a copy of the obnoxious letter, also of another to Mr. Lowber which [Dr. N.] says was very severe. 
Sunday April 12, 1857. Tried last [evening?] to get a meeting of Res. Trustees to act on Gillespie's case, i.e. his ,enlarged Engineering Department, failed by reason of Wm. Cochrane's absence at Fonda. Attended Ch. A.M., Bapt. Ch., Rev. Mr. Day. Home with wife who is not well the rest of the day and evening. 
Monday April 13, 1857. April has thus far shown but few signs of genial spring weather. Tonight the signs indicate a storm. All day in office. Called on Judge P. and left with him copies of two letters, one to R.W.Lowber and the other to [Dr. N.], both of which have been used by [Dr. N.] for the purpose of biasing the opinions of certain trustees unfavorably towards me. Judge P. read them and pronounced neither improper under the circumstances. Prof. Peissner, son-in-law of Prof. Lewis, has a young daughter; and Rev. Wm. Seelye, son-in-law of Rev. Dr. James of Albany, has a young son. 
Tuesday April 14, 1857. A Northeast storm commenced last night and has continued all day, the rain falling in torrents. Wife sick and I have been in house attending her. The cares of life and their fearful anticipations are much more wearing than the simple labor of it. If a days labor which ends with the going-down of the sun could at the same foreclose all turbulent desires, all for[e]bodings, all past griefs, how happy would life flow on! Even earth might give a for[e]taste of Heaven. Mans~ estate is pronounced but vanity. What then must his ordinary condition prove? or his worst degradation? 
Wednesday Apriol 15, 1857. Wife some better: out again to the office. Dr. and Mrs. Hickok left on Monday evening for Conn. to visit their friends. I have seldom felt strongly a desire for a couple months vacation and a few hundred dollars to spend in search of health for my wife whose health seems to need reinvigorating by a jaunt. These prerequisites to an excursion, however, are unfortunately wanting in my case. With a growing family and growing prices I find it hard to make both ends meet at the close of the year: costly journies are out of the question. May heaven vouchafe us contentment as well as health. 
Thursday April 16, 1857. The hardest lessons for me to learn in our intercourse with men are 1. To mind our own business and keep the tongue. 2. To judge kindly of other's actions and suffer patiently. If we cannot shut our eyes and our ears, at least we should our mouths when not required by duty or honor to speak out. Thus we may avoid strife. 
Friday April 17, 1857. Dr. Hickok returned from Conn. today. In New York saw certain parties on the financial affairs of U.C. and the upshot of the conversations was a showing anything but pleasant or agreeable as to [Dr. N.], the openness and frankness of whose policy and mode of doing business is very much like [wavy line here] the track of a snake --for many reasons however the utmost secrecy has to be maintained in regard to all intercourse and communications because suspicions are excited. 
Saturday April 18, 1857. April has been merely the dying out of winter; we have had scarcely a warm day in the month and snow now covers all the surrounding hills as completely as in winter. This lingering of winter well into the domains of spring renders one impatient, he hankers for returning vegitation and the songs of the birds. It will come, but Oh! how slowly. This morning our Legislature adjourned sine die, after a busy and laborious session. About 800 acts were passed, many of vital importance to the State and to sections of it. 
Sunday April 19, 1857. It threatened rain with a south wind but no rain came as yet. Wife sick at home all day; playing nurse. 
Monday April 20, 1857. Rain, sleet, and snow in great abundance. This month of April has [been] both cold and unusually wet. No recent event in the political world has caused more deep feeling than the decision of the Supr. Court of U.S. in the Dred Scott case. It denies the privilege of citizen-ship to the African. Such a shocking doctrine is repugnant to the sense of justice and right of a vast majority of the morthern people. They feel that this is only another of those acts by which slave-holders are attempting to strengthen their power over the government and people of this country. 
Tuesday Apeil 21, 1857. The finances of U.C. have ever been in confusion and are sure to be so in future so long as managed and tinkered by [Dr. N. ?] . His own affairs are in the same state. He never yet did any thing by rule or system but by a series of efforts, experiments, tricks. When one fails, he tries another and so on till the result is reached or hope fails. 
Wednesday April 22, 1857. As the term approaches, a few stragglers return and newcomers arrive. The last session of the Legislature has been prolific in Colleges. Our state is now blessed with not less than a baker's dozen of them and, what [is] more to be regretted, all will probably spend many thousand dollars upon buildings etc. before they learn two important things: 1. that [there] are not young men enough in the state desiring the advantages of Collegiate Education to fill their respectable colleges, and 2. that a capital of $100,000 will not keep alive more than a one-horse institution. It is more than likely that U.C. with our standstill policy and loose methods of management in all departments may suffer a diminution of patronage. Had our past history been what it should have been, instead of 268 students now, we should have had double that no. 
Thursday April 23, 1857. But like a prodigal our character and means have been most shamefully squandered and U.C. has been for 40 yrs. nothing but a vast broker's shop for speculations and bill discounts. Lotteries and a financiering have been her bane and curse; the effects will be felt for half a century. With proper management the position of U.C. and the generous fostering care of the State should have made it far other wise than what we find it today. Friday Apriol 24, 1857. One of the most intolerable and growing evils of our no-system is the admission of any and every person without examination to what is called the "University Course." The crudest and most ignorant numskulls are found passing about among the different classes. Once here, they commence fitting for college! They expect, and often succeed, to enter "in full standing" after a few months cramming in addition to their regular studies. The whole plan is full of objections and annoyances. It pleases {Dr. N.] to whom numbers are of more consequence than scholarship: therefore the faculty are of no account. 
Saturday April 25, 1857. Dr. Nott is still in N.Y. financiering! and will not return till next [?] on account of lumbago or something else. 
Faculty meeting last night. Present Dr. Hickok, {Profs] Lewis, Jackson, Foster, Gillespie, Newman,Peissner, Pearson; Tutors Millard, Bartlett. The only business was reading the course of studies for the term. These Fae. Meetings are of the smallest possible consequence and without the least power. That is all absorbed by [Dr. N.] . The Profs. are convened but twice a term. 1st. to hear their duties assigned them. 2d. to hear the list of students read and to give their opinions of their merits, standing, and fitness for degrees. 
Sunday April 26, 1857. Yesterday died Thos. Tompkins, an aged man long a mem[ber] of the Bapt. Ch. He was a nadve of Eng'd. Twenty-five yrs. ago he applied for admittance to the Bapt. Ch. but such had been his intemperate habits that he was put upon probation for, I think, two yrs. before being admitted. Since then no member has walked more consistently or a led a more godly life; his age was 74. Mr. Day preached an eloquent and appropriate sermon to a large audience in the ch. He was buried in a small plot belonging to the ch. on the sand hill south of the city. 
Wife attempted to attend Pres. Ch. but by reason of faintness was obliged to leave. 
Monday April 27,1857. The entrances to College thus far this session have been not far from 20, not far from the usual number at this season. A leading feature of our accessions is that nearly all of them are "University Students". The college is fast becoming a preparatory school. Thus many prepare for college after they enter the Institution and by hook or crook clamber into full standing and get a diploma. I must confess I have but little respect for our unsystematic, slipshod way of doing things. More than any thing else we need a set of Examiners whose duty it shall be to pass upon all persons presenting themselves for admission and at least once a year, as a closing act, determine who shall proceed from a lower to the next higher grade. No Professor should ever act in this latter case; for many reasons he is unfitted for the task. Tuesday April 28, 1857. Have just started with my class in Botany and Geology. It consists of a selection from all the classes, and is at present held at 1 o'clock P.M. Every year I more and more feel the incongruity of my various duties: Treasurer, Librarian, and Professor of Nat. Hist.l Who is sufficient for all these things? I find it impossible to get time for so many duties or to keep up my studies and tastes in them: yet the present necessities of Coll. seem to require me to be such a factotum and "Jack-at-all-trades." By this incessant changing from study to study and from duty to duty I have spoiled my chances of ever becoming an adept in anything. 
Wednesday April 29, 1857. Dr. Nott returned from N.Y. on Monday. So far as I can learn, no progress has been made in the transfer of the mortgages. Why? Pay-day comes but there is little money to meet it. We are like an extravagant boy who spends freely his patrimony and puts off the evil day of reckoning. For more than thirty years we have spent more than our income; and now our net capital [is] less by thousands than in 1824! Reck-less waste has characterised all our expenditures, loose accounts, bad in-vestments and general unaccountability are seen in every step of our career. 
Thursday April 30, 1857. Few days pass that some disagreeable occurrence does not come up to mar the good feeling that ought to exist. Judge P[aige] called this P.M. to know if I had said that it was owing to Dr. Backus' obstinacy that Gillespies' addition to Engineering Rooms had not been begun. So Dr B[ackus] had heard and was justly vexed at it (if true). Ans. No! --that I had neither thought nor said so, never said what could be reasonably or unreasonably so construed. 
Friday May 1, 1857. Paid little more than half the College salaries. 
Nott Trust Fund salaries, nothing; no income, no outgo. 
I have thus far opened the College Library two mornings each week, Friday and Saturday, from 9 to 10. Our authorities seem to feel that young men should not drink too freely of the fountain of knowledge. 
Saturday May 2, 1857. Pouring rain all day. Dr. N. provides in some way for Nott Tr. Fund Officers. Tonight came Fa[ther] H[arvey] and Sarah H. from N.Y. She, an invalid and great sufferer.I 
Sunday May 3, 1857. Morning to Bapt. Church where Rev. Mr. Day preached, after which the communion. Fine day but cool. 
Monday May 4, 1857. Rain all day from N.E. Fa[ther] H[arvey] left 
9. A.M. for N.Y. leaving Sarah with us. All morning in Office. Recitation at 1 o'clock in No. 5 about 20 present. To Judge Paige's to see if Res. Trustees meeting can be held tonight. At 3 1/2 P.M. to Dr. Backus on same errand --all things seem favorable. Had two hours conversation with Dr. B. on various subjects connected with College matters, especially about a couple of letters which [Dr. N.] has read to him, one said to be to Mr. Lowber and another to himself The nature of the conversation was such as to make it not easily recordable. After getting all things ready for the intended meeting as supposed, Judge P. found it impossible to spend time for it on account of preparing to leave for Plattsburgh tomorrow morning. 
Tuesday May 5,1857. Much fretting among professors that the Res. Trustees have not provided for their salaries. Two reasons often interfere to prevent their holding meetings --a want of agreement in the transaction of business, and the almost continual absence of one or another. 
Wednesday May 6, 1857. Today lectured on Bot[any], Geography to Seniors in the upper room above Dr. Hickok's house (north end of South College). Twenty-five years ago this together with the adjoining room constituted the college chapel and continued to be used as such down to about 1842. The arrangement were as follows. 
--DRAWING HERE-.
As these rooms were not capable of holding all the students upon the floors, the front room had a gallery built against the west and south walls: and the back room had a gallery upon the east and south walls. The Seniors occupied the floor of the front room and the Freshmen the galery. The Juniors sat upon the floor of the back room and the Sophomores upon the galery of the same. On the north side was the rostrum upon which the Professors sat, whilst the officiating officer stood in a wide opening betw. the two rooms. The whole arrangement was inconvenient, the place dirty, rough, and uninviting. The Second Chapel comprised the two rooms in the east end of South Colonnade now Nos. 4 and 5 Recitation Rooms. These formerly were the Chem. Laboratory Rooms. Finally in Jan. 1856 we occupied our present commodious room in the new Geological Hall. 
Un. Coll. Thursday May 7, 1857. At the election for School Commissioners yesterday, Rev. Dr. Backus, Abm. A. Vanvorst, Ira Brownell, and Caspar F. Hoag were elected --all excellent men for this office. 
Friday May 8, 1857. Judge P[aige] having returned from Plattsburgh this morning, the long contemplated Res. Trustees meeting was held this evening in Dr. N's study, at which were present Dr. Nott, Dr. Backus, Judge Paige, Dr. Hickok 9not a Trustee), Myself, Secretary. The matter which occasioned the most discussion was the borrowing of money to pay Nott Trust Fund officers, the necessity of which is occasioned by the non-payment of Interest by R.W. Lowber. L. is [Dr. 
N] 's agent,, factotum and partner in speculations; therefore to sue him is in fact to sue [Dr. N.] also, who deprecates all such stringent measures. But why does not he pay? --a per.fect mystery. After multiplying words upon this question: the whole subject was left in a fog. Never was there such a man as [Dr. N.] in financial matters --to say more might not be wise. 
Saturday May 9, 1857. Paid off several Professors salaries. Spring seems to have commencd in earnest today. Henry and John returned today from Hudson, from a visit with their aunt. 
Sunday May 10, 1857. To Bapt. Ch., Rev. Mr. Day. 
Monday May 11, 1857. A cold and wet spring so that many prophecy short crops and higher prices, which heaven forbid ! The cost of living has steadily and rapidly increased for these 1O years and especially since the great gold discoveries and the Crimean War. The great influx of the precious metals, by decreasing their value, would seem to enhance the value of commodities purchased by them. In this country, once so noted for the cheapness of articles of prime importance such bread and meat, we are fast reaching an equality with the Old World with its crowded populations. With ,land in abundance of unheard-of fertility we yet need bread. 
Tuesday May 12. 1857. My recitations are Botany and Geology on alternate days. Text book Wood's Bot. and Hitchcock's Geol., neither of first rate character for the purpose. On Wednesdays I lecture to the Senior Class on Bot[any and] Geography, a most distasteful exercise from the fact that all mental labor is disagreeable [to] students of the last-session, and to ask them to attend any exercise is looked upon in the light of a task. Our best lectures are considered bores and are only attended by compulsion. 
Wednesday May 13, 1857. This evening attended the regular monthly meeting of the Board of Education of which I have now been a member since May 1856. The 4 new members --Dr. Backus, Mr. 
C.F.Hoag, AA. Van Yoast, and Mr. Brownell --were to appear for the first time. Only the last, Mr. B. was absent. James Craig was appointed President for the ensuing year. 
Thursday May 14, 1857. This evening at 8 o'clock the Resident Trustees held a meeting at Dr. Nott's study. Present Dr. Nott, Dr. Backus, Judge Paige Dr. Hickok, myself Sec. Pro. Temp. The cheif business was the affairs of the Anal. Laboratory: he bills already incurred and those to be hereafter made. This department has given rise to much discussion on account of the reckless and extravagant manner of the expenditures. Al tho the first expence was limited to $4,000; nearly double that sum has already been spent 
besides yearly salaries to the amt. of about $2,000. 
Friday May 15, 1857. Rain -Rain -Rain -day and night, cold and unhealthy. Wife's sister Sarah Harvey and my mother are both sick and confined to their beds. Life is too short for the acquisition of more than one science or one department of science, hence it is folly to forage from field to field of knowledge! Indeed it is death to all true scholarship. Any young man who does so will ruin his prospects of eminence in his profession. Too late I have learned this fatal mistake, and now in middle life having been jack-at-all-trades I find myself good for nothing. 
Saturday May 16. 1857. For 30 years or more the fence from the front College gate to where my house now stands has left a wide strip of college land in commons; this has lately been fenced in by College much to the annoyance of some who profess that the prospect of the Coll. Park ls thereby marred. This is the state of things: 
Union Street 
--ORA WING HERE-.
Sunday May 17, 1857. Cold and raw~ Bidwell, stud[ent] of the Senior Class preached in Baptist Church. A remarkably good performance for a young man. 
Monday 18 May. Cold & inclement. Twice to Judge P's for an order he is to prepare for finance Committee to sign, dircting the the Treasurer to borrow two thousand dolls. for Trust Fund (Nott) to pay salaries. Did not get it. This evening after ten, out with class in Bot[any] after flowers. Call from Prof. G[illette] ,long talk on College matters. He thinks Vph will resign from disgust at his unpleasant standing in regard to [Dr. N.] with whom he does not agree. This will doubtless depend upon circumstances hereafter to be developed; as yet he probably has not made up his mind to do it. 
Tuesday May 19, 1857. Cold with signs of rain which towards night fell moderately. The fence newly erected from my lot to the front College gate seems an object [of] considerable spite to many of the students,, who nightly make attempts to demolish it. At 12 last night heard a fearful onslaught upon the pickets and gate, got [up] and dressed in haste and started across the Park for College to cut off the depredators. Arrived too late or they had fled into town in the opposite direction. Received an order from Judge P. to be copied and signed by the Committees of Visitors and Trustees directing the Treasurer to borrow at the Mohawk Bank $1,973.83 to pay the salaries in arrears of the Nott Trust Fund professors and prize scholars. This loan is made solely on the credit of the income of the 
N.Y.fund and not on the credit of the College. Am to get it signed tomorrow. Received an order of the Committee of the Res. Trustees for making various purchases for Analytic Laboratory, the expenditures for which occasion much dissatisfaction so extravagant have they been and beyond the estimates and directions. 
Wednesday May 20, 1857. [ Rain, cold and windy from N.E. Long conversation with [Dr. N.] this morn-ing. [ll handed him Judge P's order for the borrowing of money at Mohawk Bk. to pay Nott Trust Fund salaries, which he seemed not to like and remarked that he did not understand it and if he needed it before Trustees met, he would inform me.@ Then [I] asked [him?] what were those letters of mine to Mr. Lowber which he called uncivil Ans. --that they were not uncivil of themselves (per se?), only that they were not proper when taken in connection with Mr. Lowber's great services for the College.ill In relation to my letter of Jan. 31. last to him, [I] remarked that it was a private, friendly, frank letter which I considered the the highest act of friendship, inasmuch as I had the courage to tell him disagreeable truths. Ans. That he considered it private, but thought certain individuals including myself were of the opinion he had acted fraudently in the late intended transfer of the Lowber mortgage. This opened the whole wound znc led to the reasons for and against the various transactions connected with the transfer of the mortgages. In the evening attended a meeting of the Bel. of Education at which the most important business was the estimates of expenditures for the coming year. In the ag[g]regate, $8000 besides the amt. received from the State and from tuition. 
Thursday May 21, 1857. It is announced that Prof. C.A. Joy is elected to the Professorship of Chem[isstry], Geology and Mineralogy in Columbia College and will leave U.C. at the close of this term. In one point of view he betters his condition: he will get a better salary; in other points, he loses since HE [?] is doubtless the more important position in a literary point of view. Had a talk with Dr. Backus in relation to my duties as Treasurer and in relation to my holding this office any longer. He spoke decidedly in commendation of my official acts and advised me to remain where I am, this being the desire of the whole Board so far as he knew it. 
Friday May 22, 1857. Almost the first warm day this spring. Saw 
[Dr. N.] this morning, who referred to the order drawn up by Judge P. 
for borrowing money at Mohawk Bk. to pay N[ott] T[rust] Fund 
salaries. This order makes the repayment of this loan depend upon 
the N.T. Fund alone, as distinct from the General Funds of the College. 
This feature of the paper was displeasing to [Dr. N.] who desired the 
overdraft to be made without conditions. 
Call in P.M. from Prof. Hall of Albany who examined our 
minerals and cases. Being employed to arrange the Geol. Cabinet of 
Columbia College, he desired to get the best models of shelves for the 
same. After tea with Botany Class, into the fields and woods for 
flowers; found but few and they stunted by the cold wet weather. 
Albany Saturday May 23, 1857. Fine warm day with the first thundershower for the season. Vegitation leaps forward. At 9:05 A.M. to Albany on business 1. Bought 1/2 doz. chain padlocks for College Gates. 2. To A.A. Dunlop's cement store to inquire after that article for Dr. Nott's house, which he proposes to commence forthwith. 3. To Wendell's Ambrotype Rooms to get picture taken for Alex. Thorburn of Senr. Class who superintends the lithographs of his class. Note. For some 3 [or] 4 years past the graduating class has been accus-tomed to obtain portraits of each member of it together with those of the Faculty and exchange the same with each other. 4. To Jas. B. Sanders' office --not at home. 5. To W.H. Learned's office to collect bill of Archd. Rhoades for whom he acts as guardian --not in town 6. To Palmer's studio for marble chips for Analytic Laboratory --nobody in. 7. Got lunch at Weldon's eating house. (4/6) . 8. To State Library and for several hours examined and copied from Willis' History of Portland, Maine. One of the the early settlers of that town ( then Falmouth) was Capt., afterwards Judge, Pearson (Moses) from 
áNewbury, Mass. 9. Home at 6 o'clock and after tea to Dr. Nott's for a call. 
Sunday May 24, 1857. Warm, above soá. In forenoon to Baptist 
Church and heard Rev. H.G. Day. Wife not well. 
Monday May 25, 1857. Another warm day. Spent all the morning till near 12 o'clk showing the notable things of the College to Rev. Mr. Simmons, Bapt. minister of Waukegan, Ill. He is a young man, an Englishman, who has spent about 9 yrs. in this country, cheifly at the West, and is now on his way to Mother England for the purpose of raising the means to build a chapel in [the] W[est.] Exercise in the analysis of flowers with Nat. Hist. Class at one o'clock P.M. Dinner at two. After tea, down Troy Rail Road with a portion of my class after plants. 
Tuesday May 26, 1857. Yesterday Dr. Nott commenced his new Presidents' House for himself while he lives and for his wife if she survive him. He expects to obtain a large portion of the expence from Mrs. Douglas Cruger and her brothers of New York --doubtful, and more doubtful still if he lives to finish it in the present dilatory way. He says he has no desire to live in it himself but had rather remain where he now lives in South Colonnade House. 
Wednesday May 27, 1857. Dr. Hough called, dined and supped and left at 7.20 for Albany yesterday. Mother Harvey also came yesterday and left this P.M. at 7.20 for N.Y. with Sarah. Weather charming aand vegitation bursting forth with wonderful vigor. 
Thursday May 28, 1857. Mrs. Edmond of Utica is visiting Mrs. N[ott]. Geology alternately with Botany every day. Dr. Hitchcock's book on Geol. is a perfect hotch-potch, containing hints and matter enough to fill 4 quarto volumes if properly expanded!! In attempting to read or study it the mind is overburthened with facts and theories, many of which were exploded long ago. There is such an "embarrass du richesse" that the student is perfectly bewildered with the luxuriance and really appropriates but little. Dr. H. may be a learned man but surely does not know how to orderly arrange and communicate his knowledge. 

Friday May 29, 1857. Fine day. Had an interruption of common occurrence: a stranger who desired to see the novelties of U.C. -.calling himself Prof. D. Reed of Wisconsin University. He is on his way to attend the Examination at West Point Mil. Acad. Spent the whole forenoon till 12 1/2 oclock with him. 
Saturday May 30,1857. Rainy last night, cool today. Dr. N. has fixed upon the spot for the President's House and this week the cellar has been nearly excavated. There is but one fault to be found with the spot: he has placed his house too near the public highway. The same is true of his stable also. The arrangement is as follows: .
Union Street 
--DRAWING HERE-.
Sunday May 31, 1857. Rain. To Bapt. Ch. in A.M. where heard Rev. Mr. Day. In P.M. went with Mrs. F.dmonds of Utica to the 2d. Dutch to hear Dr. Nott. Text. Be not conformed to this world: -a favorite text and sermon of his, a good sermon delivered without notes. [Dr. N.] memorises as he always does. In early times he says he always wrote and committed to memory his sermons. 
Monday June 1, 1857. Fine, clear, comfortable day. The interruptions of visitors are so frequent and long protracted that some days I hardly find an hour for my necessary duties in the Treas. Office. Those persons who have but little to do themselves seem to place no value upon the time of others. Mrs. Edmonds and son Walter are on a visit to Mrs. N. and ourselves. The latter is sick (scarlet fever, J.M.P.). Last year there was built opposite my house a large 3-story house for boarding and lodging students. This is an experiment in which College as well as others is interested. For if it should appear that private enterprize will make suitable provisions for students and at a fair price there is some hope that the old abomination of monastic quarters [for] college students may be abolished. Notwithstanding the low charge for our coll. rooms, many prefer to room in town where in respectable families more comforts and quietness can be obtained than in our dirty repulsive old barracks. 
Tuesday June 2, 1857. Rain and shine by turns all day. It appears that Mrs. Edmonds' little boy Walter has the scarlet fever in a mild form, but being a delicate child and only 6 yrs. of age his parents very reasonably feel concerned for his safety. Telegraphed today for Mr. Edmonds at Utic:a and at night he arrived. The most of the building going on in Schen. this spring is in this part of the city. Lafayette St. betw. Liberty &and Union Sts. was opened last year and it is already built up on both sides with cheap mechanics houses. Opposite my house three have been built: Mr. Ostrander's brick boarding house, Mr. Wm Henry's and Mr. Chas. Checker's houses of wood. Thus 
--DRAWING HERE-.
Wednesday June 3, 1857. Fine day without rain. The labors each day are much the same, and when done they seem fragments without connection and importance. They consist of dunning letters and accounts, answers to a hun-dred questions, recitations and lectures: herborising, chats with Professors, a walk into town with wife, and a hundred et-ceteras. Long-continued attention to one thing seems out of the question with me. Whoever allows himself to be made a factotum must suffer this and be patient. 
Thursday June 4, 1857. Cool and comfortable. Opened Library from 9 to 10 o'c'k. A.M. I hear that Prof. Joy, who has been elected Prof. of Chemistry in Columbia College N.Y. City, has left permanently for his new situation. Called on Judge P. to get an order signed for Anal. Laboratory; He spoke of certain stories evidently set afloat in town and elsewhere by one of the Profs. now about to leave College, for the purpose of injuring Dr. H[ickok] and myself. Ans. "He is a foul bird that dirtys his own nest." 
Friday June 5, 1857. Cool. In Library from 9 tol0A.M.The unprecedented high prices of every article necessary for domestic consumption is in every body's mouth, aand' the question is asked Why should it be so? We have a territory unsurpassed for extent and fertility: land is cheap, taxes moderate, markets near at hand and climate favorable; and yet we are paying starva-tion prices for the very bread to put into our mouths. Some say glut of gold enhances the price of everything; some, that our people are crazy for getting rich in a hurry and without work; some, that the influx of foreigners make[s] more consumers than the produce[r]s can feed. Perhaps all these influences combined help forward this unesirable result. It ls certain that at present, the poor man finds it exceedingly difficult, with wages at 7 shillings pr. day, to get bread for his family and, unless wages and prices of food more nearly harmonize, we shall before long hear the muttering growl of a hungery populace at our doors. Saturday June 6, 1857. Cool. Our quiet neighborhood has been uncomfort-ably agitated this afternoon and evening by a sudden case of violent insanity. The subject of this distressing malady is Mrs. Julia Averill, widow of the late Prof. Chester A. of U.C., who died more than 2 0 years since. She has been for some years in indifferent health and moreover comes from a family (the Sedg[w]icks of Stockbridge, Mass.) on her mother's side with hereditary tendencies [to] insanity. Much of the time for 3 years past she has resided in Schenectady, to be near her only child Chester who has pursued his studies in College. On account of ill health it was thought best he should take a sea voyage to Valparaiso, S.A. He sailed last month and about two weeks since his mother returned to S[chenectady] much affected by the parting from her boy. She boarded with my nearest neighbor, Mrs. Fisk, who has for some days discovered evident marks of aberration of mind but hoped it might pass off when the anguish of parting was somewhat forgotten. This afternoon, however, she became quite frantic, breaking her windows and repulsing her best friends. A more distressing sight I never saw and what is worse nothing can be done to quiet her. 
Sunday June 7, 1857. Cool enough for fires with a little rain. Mrs. Averill still continues frantic, noisy and incessantly in motion. It is a wonder to see such constant activity without sleep or food, especially in a weak and sickly female. Her sister arrived last night, Mrs. Parker of Stockbridge, and goes this evening to Utica to make arrangements for placing Mrs. A. in the Asylum there. The whole neighborhood has been in a constant state of excitement the whole day and, unless she be removed soon, half the women will be in a like state from sympathy. At home all day. Mr. and Mrs. Edmonds with their sick child are still with us. He is now considered well past the critical period of his disease (scarlet fever) and 'if no drawback happens may soon be well enough to be removed. 
Monday June 8, 1857. Fine day. Mrs. Averill continued her ravings through the night and was this morning very much exhausted. With much difficulty she was got to the R.R. depot at 8 o'clock and dispatched to the Utica asylum where she is to be treated for her disease. Mrs. Lewis, Dr. Swits and Mrs. G.P.C. Parker accompanied her. Dr. S. informs us this evening that she was tolerably quiet all the way up and was easily transferred to the Asylum where she will have the best of treatment. 
Tuesday June 9, 1857. Mr. and Mrs. Edmonds are still with us taking care of their sick boy Walter. The scarlet fever seems to [have] nearly left him, but he is too weak to be removed or even to sit up long. This disease is a fatal scourge at times?] of the infant population of this country and has under different names prevailed here for more than 100 years. In 1736 it [was] particularly fatal in 
N.E.under the name of throat distemper. 
Wednesday June 10, 1857. It requires great grace and a particularly amiable spirit to bear the buffettings of your associates and the scandals of gossipping individuals who retail stories which they know not the truth of. To disregard evil reports of ones motives and actions when conscious of rectitude is a necessary acquirement but a 
hard one to come at. These reflections are suggest ed by rumors set 
afloat about town to the effect that Prof. J's leaving Coll. is due to the 
continued opposition of Vph. and myself. These have been very 
industriously circulated until it has become quite evident that some 
of our [339v] good people on the Hill have attended more to other 
folks matters than their own and more to the piquancy of the scandal 
than to its truth. 
Thursday June 11, 1857. For the last 6 years there has been nothing but constant bickerings in relation to the administration of the finances of U.C. and never more than during the past year. The crisis is nearly reached. At the approaching meeting of the Board there will probably be a "flare up" which will result in the resignation of Vph. who will leave in an unamiable mood. This will be a triumph to [Dr..N.?] and his friends, who would probably like to get rid of him altogether. In this whirlwind of recrimination I shall probably suffer as much as any one. 
Friday June 12, 1857. Today Mr. Edmonds returned to Utica leaving Mrs. E. and son, the latter quite recovered but still weak. Mrs. N. left for Phila. on Monday to visit her neice, Har. Anable, thought to be dangerously ill of consumption. Prof. G[illette] announces that he has overtures from Colum-bia Coll. to become Prof. of Engineering there, provided such a department be established. In case of an election he will doubtless leave. 
Saturday June 13, 1857. Handed [Dr. N.] my resignation of the Professorship of Chemistry, also a disclaimer to his charge that fraud was implied in my letter to him of 31 Jan. Stated to him that I had also another resignation written, but would not be hasty in presenting it, of my office of Treasurer. He said he could not talk about it then but would before long. I answered that I had been attacked by his friends at the two last meetings of the Board without cause or opportunity to answer and expected the like again, for which reason I thought seriously of declining to serve any longer. 
Sunday June 14, 1857. Cool and windy. To Bapt. Ch. in A.M., heard Mr. Day. Wife not well and home the rest of the day. . 
Monday June 15, 1857. Delightful weather. Sixteen Dunning Letters! This is also the annoying period for publishing our annual Catalogue, an under-taking more to be dreaded than making an Almanac. The difficult part lies in the list of students, which makes a means of discipline in this wise. He [Dr. N.?} prepares a dozen symbols to be prefixed to the names as required: one indicating death: another, dismission or absence; another, deficiency in one study; another, deficiency in two; another, not matriculated etce.tc. Now to distinguish all these nice points and make no mistakes, which is next to impossible, is worse, as I said before, than editing an almanac. When the list is perfected andf printed it has much the appearance of a set of algebraic formulae. 
Tuesday June 16, 1857. Rain all day, N.E. 7.25 A.M. to Albany to consult ****** about procuring a cold collation for Com-mencement Day. It is proposed to set the tables in Chapel, removing the seats. Back at 9.40. Rec. in Botany at 1. Dinner at 2 P.M. An hour in Library with Rev. Mr. Hunt (Methodist), Mrs. Olin, widow of Dr. Olin, Miss Garison and Mrs. Nott. The site of Dr. Notts House --to be called the President's House --is the same as that of the "South Hall, " a Boarding Hall which became so dilapidated that it was taken down in 1855, having stood only about 35 years altho built of brick and stones, one of the wise and economical constructions of Un. Coll. Soon the other old College building will fol-low the same fate. 
Wednesday June 17, 1857. Rain continually. Prof. W.M.G[illette] has been made a LL.D. by the University of Tennessee at Nashville. Received today from Mr. Jno. P. Pearson of West Newbury, Mass. a curious old account book of Deac. John Pearson of Rowley. The dates range from 1672 to 1695. It probably contains most of the names of the householders of the town, as well as many memoranda of great interest to the antiquarian. The charges are mostly for "fulling and tentering" cloth. 
Thursday June 18, 1857. Rain. The croakers are prophecying great scarcity of corn: it has hardly appeared above ground and in most instances has been planted the 2d. and 3d. time. All natural events out of the common course are now attributed to the comet w[hich] was to appear about this time but has not. Last Saturday was the day allotted for its appearance and some apprehension was felt by many superstitious people lest they should receive harm. 
Friday June 19, 1857. A few spots of clear sky. Anarchy and corruption reign in New York It contains the scum and filth of the world and these swim uppermost. A great city is a great calamity, particularly in a democratic state. It is bad enough to endure the rule of so called honest men but,, when rogues govern, the people tremble. New York at this present time illustrates these sayings and if bloodshed be avoided it will be only by a miracle. 
Saturday June 20, 1857. Lovely day. Mrs. Edmonds and son Walter left to-day to finish her visit with Mrs. Nott. 
Sunday June 21. 1857, Weather d[itt]o. Rev. Mr. Smith of Hudson preached in Baptist Church morning and evening. Heard him at 7 1/2 P.M. Mr. Backus in Pres. Ch. in A.M. 
Monday June 22, 1857. Mrs. Edmonds with her little son Walter left today to finish her visit with Mrs. Nott. She has been with us nearly three weeks during which time her son has had the scarlet fever and happily recovered from it. Our children by a good Providence have been preserved from this scourge. 
Tuesday June 23. 1857. Some rain tonight. Today Rev. James Nichols, wife and five children arrived on their way east to visit their freinds. He has been Principal for seven years past of the Geneseo Academy and been successful in placing it upon a good footing. Time has changed him as well as the rest of us: when younger he was too much given to sarcasm and harsh judgements of the actions and motives of men; age has tempered this unfortunate habit and made him more indulgent and charitable. Such perhaps is the result with most men who mingle much with the world: it is a hard lesson to learn however. A thoroughly honest, frank man is especially hard pressed by the tricks of cunning intriguers: he may from motives of policy hold his tongue but how can he have charity in his heart for such frauds? 
Wednesday June 24, 1857. Cleared off. Rev. Mr. Nichols and family left at 9.55 this morning for his father-in-law Hastings of Nashua, 
N.H.A bad state of things exist[s] on "College Hill". [Dr. N.] and Vph. are at loggerheads: confidence is destroyed and intercourse nearly stopped. On the one side there is too little tact, on the other too much craft. One is frank, honest, blunt out-spoken; the other is secret, temporising, crafty. Two men more different never existed and to suppose them capable of becoming co-workers and equals in the management of affairs is quite impossible. In the general distrust I have also suffered. 
Thursday June 25, '57. Detraction is abroad: lies chase each other and the "blackballing and white-washing committee" with their long tongues are at work building up and tearing down characters. This work is cheifly done by women who fan the flames of discord and make terrible havoc with reputations. To chase a lie will in most cases not repay one for his labor even when it be caught and strangled. I have therefore concluded to keep quiet and mind my own business, suffering time and fitting opportunity to do me justice. 
Friday June 26, 1857. Yesterday was Dr. Nott's birthday when he entered his 85th year on which occasion the students had a holiday In the afternoon a portion of the scholars of Union School paid their compliments to the old man in a neat address and gift of a bouquet and wreath of flowers. 
To Albany at 7:25 A.M. and back at 12. M. for draining tiles for Dr. Lewis' drain. 
Saturday June 27, 1857. Fine day but not hot; we have had no such yet. Yesterday Mrs. Cruger was at Dr. N's. This is the lady who with her brothers propose to build the house for him. Whether this promise will ever be fulfilled remains to be seen. It is proposed now to have a Commencement dinner in the chapel this year in anticipation of a gathering of the Alumni to form a permanent association, and to build also a Graduates' Hall. I fear the result will be anything but satisfactory. Such meetings have been slim affairs with us, spiritless and cold. 
Sunday June 28, 1857. Lovely day, temperate and clear. Wife not well and did not attend church till P.M. when heard Dr. Nott in Presbyterian Church: a good sermon and delivered with considerable ease and effect. Like all his discourses it was a labored effort, committed to memory: this has always been his habit. He never reads a discourse, never did, but always writes with great care and commits to memory. This sermon I have heard several times before. He has a few sermons which he has been in the habit of preaching these 30 or more years until he is quite familiar with them: not long since I accidently saw a discourse of his which had then been preached 4 7 times. The impression made upon most minds, I think, is that his discourses are elaborate pieces of fine writing delivered with studied effort. There is evidently nothing natural or unpremeditated about them: every gesture has been practised before hand in the study and, altho' one may be pleased with the display of oratory, no permanent effect seems to be made upon the heart and conscience commensurate with the effort put forth. 
Monday June 29,1857. Prospect of rain,no hot weather yet. At 
meeting of School Commissioners in the Union School building (late 
West College). Besides auditing there was a general talk about the 
Grammar School Department and the appointment of a competent 
principal for the same. The choice of this officer is given to 3 Boards, 
viz. the Bd. of Visitors of Nott Trust Fund, the Bd. of Trustees of 
Union College and the Bd. of Education of the City of Schenectady. In 
this multitude of councillors there may be safety but there is not 
much readiness of action. 
Tuesday June 30, 1857. Rain all day. Being the last day of our fiscal year, have been busy closing accounts and getting ready for report. Prof. G[lllette] is now deliberating upon the chances of his leaving U.C. for a Professorship in Columbia College. Several gentle-men connected with the latter contemplate making a department of Engineering in this latter institution and have consulted Prof. G. in respect to its organisation and his taking charge of the same. He says he does not desire the appointment and has stated to them that he is not a candidate, yet I presume if he were appointed, his friends in 
N.Y.would induce him to accept. 
Mrs. Brown, late Miss Mary Ripley, teacher in Mrs. Nott's school in Schenectady, and now wife of Rev. Jno. Brown (Class of 1833), is now visit-ing Mrs. N. with 3 children. She is on her way to Lawrence, Kansas where her husband has been for the year past. 
Wednesday July 1, 1857. Last March an act was passed by our Legislature incorportating the Alumni Society of Union College, and it is expected that this body will be organized at the coming Commencement. In anticipation of this the Faculty of College judge it proper to prepare a dinner for the Graduates in our present Chapel, first clearing it of seats. Such an enter-tainment, however desirable, can only be very imperfectly made in so unfavorable a place, and if not respectable is worse than none. Moreover the cost is greater than the benefit. 
Thursday July 2, 1857. The weather still remains unusually cool, to such a degree that we still have a little fire to make the temperature comfortable Croakers for a famine are becoming more confident and loud in their prophecies for evil. They may be disappointed yet. Two months hot weather which we are likely to get will restore all that is lost. 
Friday July 3, 1857. Patriotism already begins to ooze out in the 
shape of gunpowder and crackers. Such noisy demonstrations are the 
safety valve of untutored natures and prevent more mischeivous 
exhibitions of brute force. Doubtless a nation requires some holidays 
and surely none is more appropriate than its birthday. 
Saturday July 4, 1857. All day in office preparing books for the yearly Balance and Report. This is far more agreeable to me than trying to find amusement in the hot streets of a crowded city. Towards night the unwelcome news came that ex-Governor Marcy, late Sec. of State, had died suddenly at a Ballston Spa. He seems to have expired instantly, lying on a couch in [his?] Room and alone. Sic transit etc. Having filled the measure of his usefulness and fame, he had just retired from public life, greatly honored and respected, and was just now preparing to travel abroad with his family. .
Sunday July 5. 1857. AM. In Baptist Church, heard an Agent for the Am. Bethel Society plead his cause and relate facts showing the great need of religious instruction among the boatmen and boys on our á inland waters. In evening heard a stranger preach in same place. 
Monday July 6, 1857. This is the month for college commencements --those gala days for unfledged orators and harvest time of those semi-circular baubles which American clergymen delight in. These are the currency with which one-horse colleges buy patronage and friends --cheap and hardly respectable. U.C., having flung around its honors without stint or discrimination for many years, at last became ashamed of her notorious ex-travagance and for two years past has given none at all. 
Tuesday July 7, 1857. Today Gov. Marcy's remains were carried thro' Schenectady to Albany where his funeral takes place tomorrow with great pomp. The Students, Faculty, and half the city are going to it. 
Wednesday July 8, 1857. College Hill is deserted. Fourteen great R.R. coaches in one train were crammed with citizens of S[chenectady] going [to] Albany to witness and take part in the funeral ceremonies of Ex. Gov. Marcy. In office all day preparing the yearly Treasurer's Report. 
Thursday July 9, 1857. All persons agree that yesterday's pageant in Albany exceeded any thing of the kind ever witnessed there. The whole city and surrounding country contributed its inhabitants to swell the procession which follow the honored dead to his last resting place. Dr. Nott made the opening praye 
Friday July 10, 1857. Spring has relented and we have at length a summer day. After considering all the reasons pro and con, it is decided not to have a Commencement Dinner this year. This is the opinion of some of the New York graduates and I rejoice that they have come to this conclusion, for the drudgery of its preparation I do not covet 
Saturday July 11, 1857. Hot day. The Adelphic Society and indeed the whole college have had a most exciting quarrel this forenoon which scarcely the President could prevent from turning into a pitched battle. As it was a few got bloody nosesand black eyes. Cause: College politics and a nearly equally balanced election for society officers. The President stated that it was the[?] affair he ever witnessed in College --the most exciting and the most difficult to break up. Finally he got them out of the hall and locked it up, putting the key in his pocket. 
At the silver-wedding of Judge and Mrs. Paige tonight at their house 9 -11 o'clock. The performance was vastly like a real wedding, only the words are not the same. The couple surrounded by their children and friends were appropriately addressed by Dr. Nott. After that a prayer and Episcopal benediction by Rev. Wm Payne. Then followed the congratulations of hosts of friends and a walk in their beautiful garden brilliantly lighted etc. 
Sunday July 12 1857 A.M. to Presbyterian Church where heard Dr. Backus preach a sort of funeral sermon on the death of Ex. Gov. Marcy. The hottest of the season thus far. Croakers begin to fear there will be a [poor?] crop. Things grow and nature revives and springs into life and vigourous growth. 
Monday July 13, 1857. The hottest day of the season thus far. Therm. 92 á. Today commence[s] that farce called the Examination of the College Classes. Dr. VanVechten is the only Examiner and the Senior and Freshmen Classes were "done up" today. Tomorrow follow the other two. "Trotting" about all day hurrying along various jobs by carpenters and workmen, preparatory to Commencement . Today also the "stage" was put up temporarily in the Pres. Ch. for the rehersal of the Seniors. At 5 o'clock attended a meeting of P.B.K. to initiate the new candidates from Senior Class --about 8 in no. 
Tuesday July 14., 1857. Examination progress. Rev. Dr. Jacob Van Vechten and Rev. Bostwick Howley, Examiners. At work upon my Treasurers Report to Board of Trustees. It is difficult to find anything to write encouraging of our finances. The expenditure has exceeded the income for so many years that our Capital has been reduced to a mere fragment of what it should have been. 
This year we have gone behind nearly $5,000; next year may show a like result, and where we are to stop no one knows. 
Wednesday July 15, 1857. Hot and dry. As before we were complaining of wet and cold, so now we do the same on account of heat and drought. Last night at a meeting of the Board of Education till nearly 11 o'clock. The cheif item[s] of business was the increase of teachers salaries. These were raised to the amount of 700 or 800 dollars in all, and are still too small. 
Thursday July 16, 1857. Weather d[itt]o. The list of speakers who are to address the different societies before Commencement is rather aná uncommonly fine one and much is expected of them. Everything is in a hurry now: all kinds of jobs are called for. 
Friday July 17, 1857. At [Dr. N] 's request had a long talk with him on all his old grievances but with little or no satisfaction. 1st. Having read a private letter of mine to Dr. Backus to my injury sometime since, I told him what I thought of such conduct. At first he said he had not presented my letter to any one and then that he had not used it for my hurt and that he did not intend to do so. He also stated that he had been told by a gentleman that I had said that Dr. Hickok and Judge Paige had lost all confidence in him. I replied that the charge was false. I had never heard them say any such words. I had said that he and certain other gentlemen had not sufficient confidence in each other to act cordially together, meaning not that either party was wanting in integrity, but that they had different ways of doing business. I said that our finances were getting into a bad state, that we were spending faster than we received, that by reason of Mr. Lowber's withholding monies due the College, the State Funds were not full [?}. [Dr. N.] replied that the state funds would get a good deal smaller before long. I replied that they would never grow while I was Treasurer --meaning that I considered them sacred and that the Trustees had no right to spend one dollar of them. Before leaving, requested him to call a meeting of the Finance Committee to settle Mr. Joy's bills. 
Saturday July 18, 1857. Very hot. Edward Magoun --nephew -.arrived at 12 M., Sister Mary Ann and Miss Emily Cook at 7 P.M. and Magoun at midnight. News came that Rev. Wm. Huntington of Harvard College who was to address the Theo!. Soc. tomorrow eve'g had reached Springfield and missed the train for Albany, therefore could not get here before Monday. At first Dr. James of Albany was appealed to take his place, then Rev. Mr. Seelye who has consented, 'tis said. 
Sunday July 19, 1857. The hottest day of the year, 96 á. To Bapt. Ch. in the morning. Mr. Day preached. 
Monday July 20,1857. This evening Mr. G.W. Curtis spoke for the Senate in the Presbyterian Church. Did not attend -too tired. I am much like the cook of a feast , too much engaged with the preparation of the entertainment to enjoy it. Commencement Week is the hardest one of the year to some college officers and by no means a pleasant one. 
Tuesday July 21, 1857. Trustees met at !O'clock AM. in room over the Treas. Office in Geological Hall. From 8 till 10 Messrs. Jas. Brown and R.M. Blatchford, auditing committee, compared the Treasurer's vouch-ers with payments, also examined the bonds and mortgages. After a hasty audit they gave a certificate of approval. At 2 o'clock 
P.M. the Alumni met in the Chapel for the purpose of forming an association and to take into consideration the building of an Alumni Hall. Probably not more than 60áor 70 graduates were present --a meagre assembly after so much talk and effort to call out a multitude. The whole spirit of the meeting was tame and does not [promise?] much for our Graduates-Hall. At four the P.B.K. Soc. was addressed by G.W. Clinton of Buffalo: poem by Anson Chester of Syracuse. Evening H.W. Beecher in a characteristic speech addressed the Literary Soc. This was pronounced the gem of our Comm't. efforts. Rev. Mr. Pierpont followed with a poem. 
Saw Judge Paige a few mo men ts after Trustees Meeting in the morning. He pronounced the statement in my report, that we had for many years spent and reduced our capital, a torpedo taking many of the Trustees by surprise. A select committee was appointed to examine the fact and re-port at a future meeting. 
Wednesday July 22, 1857. A fine day, our usual good fortune. All day in Treasurer's Office as busy as I could be cheifly preparing and delivering diplomas to the graduating class. The new feature of this Commencement was the giving of two prizes by Mr. Blatchford of N.Y. to the two best speakers of the graduating class. The Committee to decide the matter consisted of Judges Campbell and Paige and Chancellor Walworthy. Seelye and Rathbone were the successful contestants. This evening met Judge Paige and Drs. Nott and Backus in the study of the latter to decide upon the bills and accounts of Prof. Joy. 
Thursday July 23, 1857. Rain all day, much to the relief of the parched earth. Meeting of the Bd. of Education to determine upon the choice of a Principal of the Classical Department. The Bd. decided to send Mr. Cook and myself to Newburyport, Mass. to engage one of two somewhat celebrated teachers there: Henshaw and Stanton. Am to start next Tuesday. 
Friday July 24, 1857. Today Mr. Cook left for the West and Dr. Backus takes his place on the Committee. He starts tomorrow, I next Monday morning from Hudson so as to reach Newburyport the same evening. Sister with Miss. E. Cook of Hudson, John, and Henry, and Edward Magoun left for H[udson] Busy all day getting business arranged for my leaving tomorrow evening for Hudson. 
Ole Bull fiddles tonight in town. 
Hudson Saturday July 25, 1857. With wife and Willie started at two o'clock for Hudson. At Albany an along the river below saw evidences of a very violent shower which in one place had covered the track with gravel and sand that required some time to render it passable. Arrived in H., found bro-in-law Magoun sick. 
Sunday July 26. 1857. Attended Bapt. Ch. in morning, a plain, neat room above one of the Public Schools of the city. The Ch. have resolved to build a meeting house, have bought a lot and obtained subscriptions to the amt. of $10,000. 
Newburyport, Mass. July 27, 1857. Started this morning at 5 o'clock for Boston and Newburyport, on the errand mentioned last Thursday. Till 10 o'clock the sun was hidden by the fog and clouds hanging above the mountains: afterwards it came out in all its fervor and gave us the hottest day of the season. The country never looked finer: it had all the freshness of June. Altha the late spring and frequent rains had retarded the growing crops, they show uncommon vigour and promise. At Boston at 2 o'clock P.M. --dined at Tremont House and started at S o'clock for Newburyport by the Eastern R.R. passing along the coast thro' Lynn, Salem, etcetc .. 
Arrived at N. at 7 and found Dr. Backus, who had arrived a few hours before me. 
Tuesday July 28, 1857. A fine south wind wind makes the air more endurable than yesterday. 8 o'clock started with Rev. Dr. Backus and Rev. Mr. Vermilye for Dummer Academy 5 hrs. distant in the Byfield Parish, to see Mr. Henshaw, the Principal. It is a wonder how the people of this region live from so hard and ungrateful soil --the porphyritic rocks appear on all sides in place and in boulders and where there is a soil it seems too shoal to retain moisture [and] produce a crop. Dummer Acad. was founded by Gov. D. who left his.farm and mansion to endow it. The house is now used for a boarding house for the boys: it was built in 1762 and of course is much dilapidated. [The] same may be said of the Academy building which has seats for only 40 boys. The surrounding country is wild, rocky, and sterile: a fine old grove of oaks and elms releive the academy grounds. After a conversation of half an hour with Mr. H., returned to N[ewburyport] and visited Mr. Stanton's school, the "boys high school". Dr. B[aucus] left at 12 o'clock I dined with Mr. Stanton and had a conversation with him in relation to school at S[chenectady] . Finally invited him to come on, which he agreed to do week after next. 5.25 P.M. left for Boston on the Newburyport R.R., arrived at 7 o'clock, and stopped at U.S. Hotel. Rain and a cool air. 
Hudson Wednesday July 29, 1857. At 8 o'clock started in a violent rain for home: in an hour the clouds cleared away and for the whole way the ride was pleasant --no dust, everything fresh and clean. Saw and conversed with Dr. F.aton of Hamilton. Reached Hudson at 6. 
Thursday July 30, 1857. To a busy man, visiting soon cloys. I had rather work 5 days than "loaf" one. H[udson] is very much the same as Schen. --a dull, quiet little city, capable of being seen in a day and then no longer interesting. 
Friday July 31, 1857. Out to tea at Mr. Giffords who has a small family of only 20. One son James spent nearly a year in Australia from whence he brought a collection of birds of beautiful plumage, as well as other mementoes of his voyage. On the whole, a pleasant, worthy family. The father is of Quaker extraction and had for many 
years carried on the foundry business and is President of one of the 
two banks of the place. 
Saturday Aug 1, 1857. Rode down to Johnstown, a village in the town of Livingston. The country never looked fresher, the grain is mostly housed and now the hay is undergoing the same process. It was never stouter. Called on Mr. & Mrs. Andrews, the former a lawyer, the latter daughter of Mrs. Fonda, one of our neighbors in Schen. Back at two o'clock tired and hungry. 
Sunday August 2, 1857. A.M. to the Dutch Ch. and heard Rev. Dr. Demarest, the Pastor, who preached a sermon with reference to the occasion, this being the 5th anniversary of his settlement over this church. Very plain and pointed. P.M. heard Mr. D. again. 
Schenectady Monday August 3, 1857. This evening arrived at home, found all well, having been absent about 9 days, the longest vacation I have had in 6 years. This has been 5 days more than I care for or need. One should work in such a way that entire relaxation is not needful. Alternately to surfeit and to starve is bad for the health: so also to overtax the body and then to do nothing. 
Tuesday August 4, 185 7. I find that the last meeting of the Bd. of Trustees was quiet and unruffled by any exciting questions. [Dr. N.?] was said to have been greatly agitated by my Treas. report --with that part of it wherein the great loss of property is stated within the last 33 yrs. By a system of forcing current expenses into capital and calling bad obligations good the capital of the College has appeared large upon paper for many years. There never was a greater fallacy, however, ... 
Wednesday August 5, 1857 .... believed in by a set of Trustees. Our financial condition has been hollow and deceitful for years; losses have been covered up and acts. have been so cooked up as to give a most glowing state of prosperity: and it would seem that Trustees believed in it. The first weakening of confidence in our management took place during the late investigation of the Senate Committees , and the final report was only made favorable [for us by the fact that the Nott Trust Deed was to be made out an it was thought that this at least would be a salve to all previous bad manage-ment and ought to shield us from an adverse report. 

[NOTE: No explanation of missing months. No space left for them.] 
Monday, November 9, 1857. The college session is now drawing to a close. It has been a prosperous one beyond any reasonable expectation. The total number who have entered is 112 and, notwithstanding the unprecedented panic in the commercial world, few have thus far left college. Had our term commenced one month later, doubtless many would have staid away. This was the experience of those colleges whose sessions commenced in October. Next session we have reason to expect a falling off in numbers, as many must stay away to recruit their finances. 
Tuesday November 10, 1857. My recitations this session have been two in Conic sections, with the Junior Class, each di-vision numbering nearly 30. Time from 9 to 11 o'clock A.M. in No. 10 North Colonnade. The weather this autumn has been mild. Water exposed has seldom frozen at night as yet. The election just past interested the mass of people less than on former occasions because of the general interest taken in money matters which more nearly affected their pockets. In this region the cheif interest centered in the judge to be chosen for this District. The contest was 354 between Judge Paige and his brother-in-law, Platt Potter: the [former] gain[ed] his election by about 300 votes. 
Wednesday November 11, 1857. The great matter of interest in everyone's mouth has been the terrible panic in the money market for the last two months and which reached its head in the general suspension of specie payments by banks and the failure of hundreds of firms hitherto considered beyond doubt. All this has happened in the midst of great prosperity, abundant crops and peace with all the world. Our financiers differ both as to the cause and the cure: most acknowledge that overtrading and improper speculations had much to do with it. When the pressure began, it soon pro-duced bank contractions; these led to scarcity of currency and, when continued, to panic which induced depositors to rush upon them for the specie. The end came in a day. To one looking on, this lesson is instructive: it shows how sensitive a thing is commercial credit; when lost, how completely all transactions are at a stand still. 
Thursday November 12, 1857. Confidence is gradually reviving in the commercial world; altho it cannot be expected to be entirely restored under many months. The most fearful forebodings now are based upon the suffering of the poor thrown out of work in our large cities. Already Bread Riots have been threatened by base political demagogues in New York City and if not speadily provided for may prove a reality before many weeks. It is to be feared that the future of that city will show an alarming picture of corruption and crime. The better classes will not leave their business to attend to municipal matters, but by their neglect they throw the entire government into the hands of the corruptest rascals and the *****est dregs of European immigration. Fearful will be the harvest they will reap when repentence may be too late. 
Friday November 13, 1857. John Nott was in town last August for some days --a poor, feeble man, broken by disease. He says to me, "Why do you keep my name upon your Catalogue? I am no longer a professor." I answered that the President had not ordered it to be removed and I supposed it would not be until so ordered. He. Well ,I want it removed. 
I. You had better speak to your father about it; as he orders, so it will be. He. I will. The next day John came in and says, "You need not drop my name from the Catalogue; let it stand." Following the advice of his father, of course. It is difficult to imagine why this advice was given. 
Saturday November 14, 1857. Cool and clear. The news today from Europe by "Arabia" is commercially encouraging. Our grand crash did not frighten commercial men there as much as it was feared; whereupon Wall St was rampant, all stocks went up at a jump and gallop, so impulsive are we --elated and depressed alternately. {Dr. N.], ever busy in money matters and speculations, has now taken in hand the college real estate on south side of Troy Turnpike. He has purchased of Clute lots amounting to $3,400 and hopes next year to sell to good advantage; --poor old man! speculating in lots in Schenectady! Nothing is surer to lead to loss and unthrift. 
Sunday November 15, 1857. Clear fine day. To Bapt. Ch. with wife and boys. Rev. Mr. Day preached and presented the cause of Home Missions, which languish for want of money. 
Monday November 16, 1857. Mild and spring-like. Received from Wm. Magaffin, formerly of Schenectady, now of Clarkesville, Tenn., a curious insect called "Devil's Horse" or "Tennessee traveller." This came in a box by mail quite safely. It is found on trees cheifly and in size and form is much as follows: 
--BUG DRAWING HERE -.
Tuesday November 17, 1857. Weather d[itt]o. [Dr. N.?} sent for me to talk about closing term and examinations. Wants the session to end so early as to give students time to get home by Thanksgiving Day. By so doing we get but 11 weeks study, a decided fault in our arrangements by which nearly every session is shortened at least one week. 
Wednesday November 18, 1857. Mild, no ice, no signs of winter. With Prof. Gillespie arranged order of Examination, also order of studies for next session. Financial matters in New York are in a more remarkable state now than as [for a] month since. Stocks have risen more rapidly than they fell; the banks never were so strong, pecie is a drug and altho' the banks have suspended is at a prem[ium] of only 1/ 4 to 1/2 pr. ct. Any quantity of money is waiting a borrower, only the kind of paper desired is scarce. In ~l probability a reaction will take place altho the pendulum will not swing so far the other way as a month since. After a few swings it will finally attain regular motion and the financial world will move on as before. 
Thursday November 19, 1857. Wind south, threatening rain but none came. Quite barren of news. The most sensible thing Dorp has done these many years is the laying out, this fall, the "Vale Cemetery." This has been a real need for years, but it takes our people half a century to move in a good cause. This new project is quite popular and promises to pay expenses, which is a real recommendation to many. I have not as yet visited it --have been waiting till the improvements shall make a favorable 1st impression. The first burial in these grounds took place a few days since, the child of Mr. Gardner 
B. Van Yoast. The dedication took place in October. Friday November 20, 1857. Cold at night, bitter. Last recitation in Conics today. Made out order of Examination!? to be posted tomorrow. Wrote invitations to clergymen of town to be present on Monday and Tuesday next, and made report to Finance Committee of state of Laboratory accounts. Union School closes today for 10 days. Boy Henry is of tomorrow to visit his Aunt Magoun in Hudson. 
Saturday November 21, 1857. Cold and wintry. Wife taken last night sick of a nervous complaint which obliged me after a little work done in office to finish the day by her bedside. For some some years as my time would allow I have collected materials for a family genealogy. By extensive correspondence these materials have acquired considerable bulk and (for the subject) importance. suppose I have the names of at least 1,500 descendants ( exclusive of those who have married out of the name) of two First Settlers of the name: Jno. P. of Rowley and Jno. P. of Lynn. How far is this matter commendable? Is it not friviolous to hunt up our dead ancestry and mouse among old family Bibles and town records? There certainly is an affectation of contempt for such studies among most persons. The reasons are obvious. They who have a pedigree always respect it at least: only those too indolent to trace up their descent despise the matter as unworthy of a thought. Brown boasts that he does'nt know who his grandfather was and, what is more, dont care; but let some one of their family hunt up the family memorials and who is prouder of the fact than Brown? He thinks more of the discovery that Brown.tho First Settler came over in the "Hind," in puritan times than an English noble. does of his Norman descent. 
Sunday November 22, 1857. After a tolerable quiet sleep, wife is better to-day: at home with her. Yesterday Henry left for Hudson to visit his Uncle and Aunt Magoun. I suppose what are called Religious Newspapers form a part of the Sunday reading in most families: it is doubtful whether they are rightly properly called religious: they may have the form but not always the spirit of religion. They are polemical and disputatious and sectarian, often little else: moreover with advertisements and worldly matters 2/3 the sheet is filled. If religious, these papers like some men are not moral. Many are covert upholders of Am. slavery --that legal abomination: They call themselves conservative and so they are: conserva[tors[?] of respectable iniquity. It ls not to be believed how little independence these preservers of public morals exhibit. One would think their principles lay in their subscription list 
Monday November 23, 1857. What we call our examinations begin today, but as wife is sick shall not venture out. How [we] value and wish for health when it is gone! How sickness draws out the sympathy and kindness of friends ! 
Tuesday November 24, 1857. Wife much worse, giving much anxiety 
to us: her fever and nervous excite[ment] run high. As for medicine, I 
have but little faith in it but such as we use is of the homoepathic ákind. 
Wednesday November 25, 1857. Wife some better. Until tday have not been out since Friday last: some nights have been without sleep 
Thursday November 26, 1857. Wife still mends slowly but I hope surely. Have done no work on the Hill in the office since Friday last. College is closed, students are gone and desolation reigns again in the Halls. Thanksgiving Day. Rev. Mr. Duryea preaches in the Methodist Church and Rev. Mr.[?] in the 1st Dutch Ch. In house all day. The weather has been cold and dreary. The change came suddenly and in one night closed the Canal and river with ice. 
Friday November 27, 1857. Wife gaining slowly. On the Hill most of the day in office. My mind, however, was mostly elsewhere --in the sick-room. The weather grows milder again and there is good prospect of a renewal of business on the Canals for a few days at least. Hon. A.L. Linn died not long since, a memorable instance of misapplied talents and wasted energies. The bottle was his bane. It killed him. He died as the fool dies. 
Saturday November 28, 1857. Fine day, wind south, hazy and smoky like Indian summer. Vp. tells me a miserable story of financiering and want of faith. He [Dr. N.?] held C[rane] and E'[ly]'s notes to the amt. of $80,000 which he promised to renew on their paying $20,000 of them on Jan. next. Instead of keeping faith with them, he disposed of the whole batch; they passed out of his hands and are past recall, so that next Jan. the whole $80000 will fall due andwill doubtless be pressed to payment. C. and E. cannot meet the whole at once, especially at this time. In consequence E[ly] has made an assignment of his property in anticipation of this event. What C[rane] will do is not known nor how far the College interests will be jeopardised. Such an instance of bad faith is lamentable in one of his position and profession. I have it from undoubted authority that C[lark] N. P[otter] said to him, "Grandfather, you are not fit to do business, for if you deal with an honest man you will cheat his eyes out: and if you deal with a rogue, you are so credulous that he will cheat your eyes out!!" As true as gospel ! There never was a more perfect case of infatuation and inordinate thirst for gambling and speculation [in] the most foolhardy speculations. 
Sunday November 29, 1857. A perfectly lovely day; mild hazy and calm. Wife "middling" --weak and not strong headed. With her all day. 
Monday November 30, 1857. Henry returned from Hudson tonight from a visit to his Uncle and Aunt Magoun's. Dr. and Mrs. Nott went to New York to-day. It is wonderful how strong in him are the ruling passions even now in his 85th year. Altho' President of the Coll., which office one would think quite enough to fill his whole time, he has for nearly SO yrs. toiled and struggled for money for himself and the Coll. as though life depended on it. It has been his meat and drink, and instead of relaxing in old age, if any thing [it] grows stronger, altho' the powers of his mind have evidently waned and render him less capable of doing business. To be called a "Financier" is one of his hobbies. 
Tuesday December 1, 1857. He prides himself upon having been a successful money-getter and he comforts himself with the idea that all his desire for wealth centres in his anxiety to make Union College rich and useful. I have no reason, however, to suppose that self is any less mixed up in his projects than in those of other men. He has labored for College and at the same time College has been the lever with which he has removed obstacles in the way of his own fortune. The literary lotteries were a source of more wealth to him and the other partners, Yates and McIntyre, than to the College. If well managed, Y. & Mel. deserve the credit of it for they [were] the real and only workers in the whole scheme of public plunder. 
Wednesday December 2, 185 7. But surely he has made over a magnificent property to Union College which must be looked upon as a free-gift. In this transaction there are two sides: the one visible to the public, the other only known to a few. His original intention was to make a will in favor of Union College to a large portion of his property or what he called his property but still to retain the management in his own hands during life. During the Senate investigation, however, his attorney and other friends found it necessary, in order to obtain a favorable decision, that he should deed it in Trust to Coll. at once. This was a bitter pill and was resisted with great pertinacity ... 
Thuesday Decemnber 3, 1857 .... until finally J.C. Spe[ncer] with a withering look and tone of thunder said to him, "Sir, you have not a shadow of right to that property; your title to it is not worth a straw." This produced the desired effect: the deed was drawn up by 
J.C.S. in connection with Judge P. of this city and in due time signed. And fortunate it was for College. Had it remained in his hands till this time, it is not all probable that a dollar would have been left. Always, even in his best days a reckless speculator, he has now become in his old age still more reckless: purchase after purchase of mines have proved valueless, and now at the close of life it ls currently reported and believed that he is bankrupt. 
Friday December 4, 1857. The great topic of gossip this week is the New York City election by which one Wood who has been Mayor 3 yrs. was defeated in the 4th attempt. He is charged with all sorts of rascality which if true only so much the more shows him to be a fit representative of that sink of rogues. It is a marvel to everyone that he failed of a re-election; it was thot the majority of the voters were rascals and therefore Wood-men. 
Saturday December 5, 1857. Democratic government is no more fit for such a Sodom as N.Y. than Satan is fit for a priest. What is wanted there ls a strong despotic government, swift justice and well.meted punishment. Now the mob rules; sometimes it seems as tho' hell were let loose --murders, robberies and slaughter follow in so quick succession that justice seems stun[n]ed. Few cities of its size, I presume, are so unsafe for life and property: few have been so plundered by a shameful government. It is doubtful whether the mere election of an honest Mayor will stay the flood of iniquity. 
Sunday December 6, 1857. Rain tonight. At home all day with wife who is slowly getting [better?]. I am told that Dr. Backus preached two sermons today on the history of his (Pres.) Ch.[) in Schenectady. Its origin seems to be in doubt. No records exist and no very reliable traditions exist of it. á 
Monday December 7, 1857. For some days at work upon the Report on the affairs of College to the Regents of the University. This ls a useless matter in the form and frequency with which it is made: much the larger portion of it is the same year after year. The reports required from the other literary Institutions are likewise cumbrous and unnecessarily minute. These reports, altho made year after year and published in a stout volume, seem to have led to [no?] practical results. The Regents make no reports themselves aside from those received from the Lit. Institutions; they draw no general con.clusions [from] this great masss of statistics: they offer no advice, they make no suggestions for their better management. It is on the whole a Board having great authority and power of doing good, but barren of results. They do not fulfil their promise or what is expected of them. Whatever is done is due to a few gentlemen residing in Albany whose judgement in some matters may well be questioned. 
Tuesday December 8, 1857. Commenced the report of Union College to the Legislature. In making a grant of certain monies to be raised by lotteries, $35,000 was to be funded and the income to be devoted to the payment of Professors' salaries. The college is required by law to report yearly upon this fund. This report has usually been made at the very close of the session within a day or two of adjournment, as tho' if presented sooner there was fear of its being overhauled. In these reports also almost everything was talked about save the very thing required. I have endeavoured in this to meet the requirements of the law. 
Wednesday, December 9, 1857. Weather mild, the little ice formed in Canal and River has disappeared and already weather-wise people are prophecying an "open winter." Our old servant, and mail-carrier for College, "Jimmy Rogers," went to Albany last Saturday and had a cancer removed from his lip; he now lies in the hospital at A. with good prospect of being well in a fortnight. He has been about College more than 40 years, having deserted during the last war from the British army in Canada. Altha' in humble life, he is much thought of on account of his honesty and faithfulness. 
Thursday December 10, 1857. Today we heard of the sudden death of Jno. Keyes Paige Esqr., brother of Judge Alonzo C. Paige of this city. These two bros. I believe graduated at Williams College and studied law in this city; the former early went to Albany where for many years he was Clerk of the Supreme Court. He was President of the Canal Bank when it failed and altho' considered above suspicion, lost all his property in it, besides much of his former influence among citizens of A[bany]. He left, and resided in Gilboa, Scho[harie] Co. until within two years when he came to this city. 
Friday December 11, 1857. The weather has changed and now feels wintry. The news are meagre. Congress having met, we shall now have our usual winter [of] agitation in politics. Just now the opposition feels quite exultant because a powerful administration is already meeting with obstacles in its own party: The great matter of dissention is Kansas. Having carried the "Squatter Sovereignty" principle thro' Congress and been sustained by at least enough of Northern votes to carry in the President, -a portion of the Democratic Party under the influence of the southern fire-eaters desire to force upon Kansas a Constitution not sanctioned by a popular vote. This even Douglas will not tolerate, so it is Dog eat Dog. 
Saturday December 12, 1857. Cold and windy. At 2 1/2 P.M. the funeral exercises of Mr. J. K. Paige took place at his house, corner of Washington and Front Streets. A large number of citizens both of Schen. and Albany were present, among whom were the Masons of this city, and the Common Council and several of the Board of Regents of A[lbany]. After religious exercises at the house the corpse was born to the Pres. Ch. and buried on the east side in Judge Paige's lot. The deceased was attacked with paralysis at 8 o'clock on Thurs. and died about 12 M. This was a second stroke of the same disease. 
Sunday December 13, 1857. Mild sunny day with wind S.E. To Baptist Church in the morning. 
Hudson Monday December 14, 1857. Weather pleasant and springlike. At 8 o'clock A.M. started with wife for Hudson on a visit to Bro.-in-law Magoun. Desiring to consult some books in the State Library, we spent the day there. My purpose was to find some account of Rev. Abrm. Pierson and his descendants. Examined Thompson's Hist. of Long Island which [has] many merits and some defects. It is evident that he was not a thoro' antiquarian nor an experienced book-maker. The want of a good index is enough to condemn the book. Rev. Mr. Stearn's Historial Sermons on the 1st Presbyterian Ch., Newark, N.J. with all their excellencies have no index also. Why attempt to mix 
á up a sermon with a history? They no more agree than oil and water. Willis [on] Portland; this has a tolerable index and seems to have been written with some care. Left with Mr. Woolworth Sec. of Regents the Report of Un. College to Regents of Univ. 
At. 5 1/2 oclock P.M. started on Hudson R[iver] R.R. for H[udson] where arrived at 6 1/2 and found all well and expecting us. 
Tuesday December 15, 1857. Weather d[itt]o. As doing nothing is irksome, spent the day at the country clerk's office examing the deeds and mortgages for those bearing the name of Pierson and they seem to have come up from Long Island and Conn. into Massachusetts, and are 1st found in the bordertown of Richmond, Mass. whence they seem to have passed over into the nearest towns in N.Y. --New Lebanon, Canaan, and Austerlitz. Some of the name are now living not only in R[ichmond] but in Pittsfield. Elizabeth Pierson of Richmond, Mass., was a pretty large money-lender down to a latter day in Columbia County. A higher rate of interest doubtless induced her to invest her money here. 
á Wednesday December 16, 1857. At the clerk's office today. The records are in pretty fair condition and well indexed. In early times they were more neatly kept and better written than now when most of the work is done by irresponsible agents and boys. Most of the late copying is miserable scrawls, hardly legible. 
Mr. Magoun went to New York this evening by boat. 
Thursday December 17, 1857. This morning attended a wedding at the Episcopal Church on Court House Square; being the first I ever witnessed in ch[urch], was desirous to see it. The Episcopal wedding service is quite as appropriate and solemn as is the burial service. Mr. M. returned at 10 o'clock P.M. Called today at City Clerk's to see a map of the city and the early records --no success; found however that Judge Darius Peck had a copy of the early Proprietors' book and maps, also that he had traced most of the titles of lots back to the earliest times for the purpose of furnishing an abstract for the Hudson R[iver] R.R. Co. Judge P[aige?] states that all the early proprietors had a water lot, and that the Rail Road crosses all of them, hence it became necessary to examine all their titles. 
Schenectady Friday December 18, 1857. Rain last night and till noon when it cleared away. At 4.38 P.M. started for home and arrived there at 
7.10. One of the greatest annoyances in winter travelling is the shocking lack [of] air [in] the R.R. coaches. In summer the dust and heat are equally disagreeable. Found all well at home. 
Saturday December 19, 185 7. All day answering letters which have ac-cumulated during my absence. Dr. N. still in N.Y. Prof. G[illespie] wants money not [now?] due him. S[chenectady] is dull as the city of the dead. Nothing doing. 
Sunday December 20, 185 7. To Baptist Church in forenoon where Rev. Mr. Day preached. Saw Mrs. Nott, who came from N.Y. last night. Dr N., who fell in N.Y. more than a week since, not out: quite stiff and sore. Clear and cool but not cold as one might expect for the season; for the last 3 weeks we have had little or no ice nights. 
Monday December 21, 1857. Mild and pleasant with signs of a storm at night. Called on Dr. and Mrs. [Nott]. Found him stiff and lame from the effects of his fall in N.Y. To Anal. Laboratory where as usual a great number of new articles are wanted, new working tables and what not. In the absence of any well-balanced head to direct the expenditures of this department, it proves an expensive luxury. Found in the Professor's hands letters from N.Y. of nearly a month's standing saying that 5 packages of glassware had arrived for U.C. from Europe; here again we have a specimen of management for the good of the warehouse keepers. Every days detention there costs 
U.C. an extravagant sum for storage: moreover these articles altho' bought in Germany have been brought to Hull, Eng'd. across to Liverpool and thence trans-shipped to N.Y., thereby more than doubling the freight and expenses: so we go. There are some men whose self-reliance is such that they would at once undertake without advice to make a locomotive, a watch, a frigate or a steamboat: they will make stoves, draw lotteries, manage finances, direct a college, import goods thro' an English Banker! etc. In P.M. to Laboratory with carpenter G.I. Van Vranken to estimate cost of making new working tables for additional students expected next session. (who may not come)!! Took a walk with wife and Mrs. Newman, home to tea etc. 
Tuesday December 22, 1857. All day fussing about the Anal. Laboratory tables which finally the Finance Committee have ordered --cost not to be above $250! This department is a costly luxury. The failure of the Nott Trust Fund to meet the salary of the chemical professor has thrown the whole burthen of it upon the undergraduate or academical department. But U.C. is a patient old ass destined to have innumerable burthens thrust upon her: if her back is not broken, it will not be for the want of luggage. 
Wednesday December 23, 1857. Winter is coming. Until now we have had no snow to speak of and the temperature has been more like October; but little ice has formed, no skating of any consequence for the boys. The change is now beginning. It would be a singular occurence ifwe should have no sleighing in December. 
Thursday December 24, 1857. The great money panic, after raging intensely for 3 months, is gradually subsiding, altho' the effects may be felt for months. It is now a constant inquiry, "What caused the panic?" "What made the pressure?" Every other man has been knocked down but he does not know who or what did it. One says "Overtrading"; another says "Nay it was the Banks, the paper money"; a third answers "Not so, for in Hamburg where specie alone is used the panic is sorest." So the whole alphabet of reasons is assigned but no satisfaction -is derived from them. It would seem in a great measure a mere panic acting at a time when the commercial affairs of the world were in an unfavorable state for meeting such a catastrophe, when credits were unduly extended, and everything was on the full-tide of apparent prosperity. If by "overtrading" is meant over-crediting I believe the reason is a sound one. Paper money may be considered only as a form of credit. This doubt less is over done in this country; small bills should be suppressed and gold substituted. 
Friday December 25, 1857. Gilbert and myself most of the day casting interest for [?] which after all amounts to nothing. The strangest man living --no more imagination, or conception of a thing in his mind than a turnip; drawings help him nothing --[the] thing must be made, then he is ready to tear it to pieces and reconstruct. Joe. Horsfall his "boss" pattern-maker told me spent [Dr. N.] $100,000 in experiments upon his coal-stove. Nephew Edwd. Magoun came tonight to visit our boys. 
Saturday December 26, 1857. W.M.G. writes me that it was reported to him that {Dr. N.] had dissolved his connection with Lowber who says he has made $300,000!! that Bald Mt. Lime Works are given up and Bristol Copper Works are sold out for a nominal sum --all gone! Quere -from the general wreck of wildcat speculations, what is left. Anything? or, as I say, "$300,000 made"? 
Sunday December 27, 1857. Cold, clear, and bright. To Bapt. Ch. Mr. Day A.M. Home with [wife?] rest of day. 
Monday December 28, 1857. Saw a letter from C.M. Wheatley of New York in relation to his minerals and shells, which he has offered to Union College for $10,000 --$5,000 cash etc. Mr. E.C. Delavan has agreed to pay for this cabinet provided someone will supply him the money for a limited period or good security. Informed Dr. N. that if Mr. D's security be good, it will not be impossible to raise the money --that I expect $5,000 of the N.Y. State Fund to be paid on Jan. 16. .or that $5,000 of our N.Y. Cent. R.R. Stocks may be ex-changed for a good bond and mortgage and sold. He jumped at the suggestion and at once wrote [that] the offer was accepted. 
Tuesday December 29, 1857. The town was startled this morning with the news of Chas. W. Barhydts death by his own hand. He with his bro. Giles were grocers in good circumstances and prosperous business. Chas. left his bro. this morning at 6 o'clock, went to his store, locked the door within and first attempted to shoot himself, but the pistol exploded and shattered his thumb; he next seized a dirk and attempted to stab himself, but struck a rib; a second thrust pierced the heart and he was found dead at 7 o'clock. Religious despondency is said to have been the cause. 
Albany and Troy Wednesday December 30, 1857. Mild cloudy day. The little flirt of snow which lies on the ground is fast melting. With wife started for Albany at 8 o'clock. 1st. trotted about among crockery shops and plumbers to find wash-bowls for Anal. Laboratory with hole in the bottom to carry away wast-water. 
--DRAWING HERE-.
2nd. to State Library where several facts became apparent: 1st. that the building is ill-adapted for books: it wants light, a fatal objection, as well as some other qualities necessary for a Library. 2nd that a historical work without an index is a great nuisance, with a poor index hardly tolerable. 3. At one o'clock started for W. Troy by North Rail Road --left circulars at P.O. for tenants of 40 lots who owe rent to U.C. and receipts for same at West Troy Bank; then across the river to Troy. Lunched at R.R. Restaurant, then left wife and climbed the hill to see the new huge building for "Troy University," -a magnificent "folly." The funds have been raised by the scholarship plan $100 paid giving a perpetual scholarship! The building is some thing like this -.
--DRAWING HERE-.
--DRA WING HERE-.
Home at 7 o'clock and found sister Magoun. 
Thursday December 31, 1857. Last day of the year and busy in office preparing to report upon accts. for the last 6 mos. 
[This section of Diary to be examined: [HCM] [367v] BLANK; 368 & [368v] BLANK; 369 has tiny note on corner of end leaf: Feb 26 began '57 Mar. 1 worst [369v] BLANK 
Cow took Bull June 6, 1858 Lowber Jan. 29/58 1859 Ap. 13-14-15-18-19-23-25-26" -28 May 3-21-31/June 6-7.9-13-14 Jan.22. Dr N Paralyzed May 22/23-24/59 
[Here regular entries resume] 
1858 Friday January 1, 1858. Bro.-in-law Magoun came last night at one o'clock. All day in Treas. office. The custom of making New Year's visits seems to be falling into disuse except among the children; made none myself. Magoun, Sister and Edward left this P.M. for home. 
Saturday January 2, 1858. April weather such as the "oldest inhabitant" does not remember to have ever before seen in January. The Analytic Laboratory still calls for more money, new expensive working tables, new apparatus, chemicals and what not. 
Sunday January 3, 1858. To Baptist Church. Heard Rev. H.G. Day and home in the afternoon. 
Monday January 4, 1858. Schenectady like other places is dull and lifeless this winter: business stands still and the poor are begging for help. This is the worst feature of a great financial crash: whilst a few rich men fail in business, the many are thrown out of employment and suffer for bread. Can Society never be so con-stituted that these crises in money matters shall not occur or if they occur produce less disastrous effects? Is there no independant calling which is above the reach of banks and tariffs and gigantic suspensions? 
[Tuesday] Jan[uary] 5, [1858]. In this country of cheap land and dear laborthe cultivation of the soil seems to invite the poor and middle.conditioned population to a surer source of subsistence and thrift than any other calling. So long as God gives the rain and sun, the fruitful earth will never disappoint the husbandman: and if he make his wants moderate he will never fear famine altho the finances of the country be disordered. Another flurry on the "Hill." On Sat., the laboratory tables came from the carpenters. Cost about $150 -$175, but they do not suit; they are not fine enough: here is a knot, a little sap, a crack, poor locks etc. Prof. J[oy] came in always ready, as the ------in a gale of wind, to help on any trouble. He ran over to the President and Mrs N. Tthey must come right over and see the wonder. So they both paddled over thro' the slush and had the whole thing explained in a trice: every defect was pointed out. Oh! such an out-rage! This is the way trouble is made in every little community --one busy body may sour a whole neighborhood. The tables are really good enough, strong and convenient. A laboratory for work is about as neat and sightly a place as a blacksmith shop and requires really not much better furniture than such a shop. Why then spend hundreds upon nice zinc white and walnut graining which will in three months be disfigured, burnt and bedaubed with all sorts of chemical filth? It is in bad taste as well as bad economy. So we go. 
Wednesday January 6, 1858. Snow all day moderately. At work upon half yearly balance of Treas. Books and Report to Finance Committee. Saw Prof. J[ackson?], who met Prof. Amasa McCoy in Albany. The latter has lately quarrelled with Mr. E.C. Delavan and has expressed his dislike to him in an address which he says he is about to publish. From all accounts there seems to be blame on both sides. McC. charges Mr. D. with halfheartedness in the temperance cause, serving it out of selfish motives; he says, moreover, that there is complicity between him and Rousselle, the Keeper of his "Delavan House" in regard to the change of its character from a Temperance to a liquor-selling tavern. He says also that Mr. D. threatened to "crush him" etc., last night attended a meeting of the Board of Fducation. Much talk, but little done as usual. This is an excellent talking Board. 
Thursday January 7, 1858. Clear. All day in office at work upon half.yearly balance. Prof Gillespie returned last night and a few students are appear-ring. Tutor M. tells me that [Dr. N.] told him he had lost $300,000! On the other hand, R.W. Lowber says he has made $500,000! How these two statements are to be reconciled is more than I know. Mrs. Craig gives a party tonight for the teachers of Union School and others --do not attend, have a mortal dislike to them. 
Friday January 8, 1858. Clear, cold. The winter has just begun. Snow 6 to 8 in. Students drop in slowly tho' quite as rapidly as usual. Prof. J.[ackson?] called to see about the proposed purchase of Wheatleys minerals by Mr. Delavan. J. proposes to go down to Albany and see Mr. D. --whether as 'tis surmised, he wished to back out of his promised gift of $10,000 and what security he will give if the money is loaned him to purchase the minerals. Told Dr. N. that our only hope of raising the 5,000$ for first payment is to sell N.Y. Centr. R.R. Bonds for cash and take Mr. Delavan's bond and mortgage on good property. 
Faculty meeting at 4 o'clock in Treasury back office. Present Dr. Nott,Dr. Hickok, Dr. Jackson, Dr. Lewis, Dr. Gillespie, Profs. Foster, Peissner, Pearson, Newman, Tutor Bartlett. Read the list and course of Studies for the term and passed them. Objections having been urged against our present arrangements for morning and evening prayers at which times many students are tardy and thus interrupt the devotions, it was agreed that hereafter the bellringer shall lock the Chapel Door when he enters after bell-ringing so that all tardy persons will be excluded and marked as absent. The President urged upon the Fae. the necessity of frequent reports to him of conduct and studiousness and attendance of the young men. 
Saturday January 9, 1858. No'east snow storm all day. Prof. G. says he heard in N.Y. that Lowber had given it out as a fact that [Dr. N.?] had made at least $500,000 out of the "Cove property." G. also says that the "Bald Mountain" Lime Speculation is confessedly a failure; into this [Dr. N.] put more than $100,000; and that Bristol Copper mine is ditto. How much has sunk in that nobody, not even [Dr. N.] himself knows. B. Silliman Jr. says he has spent $500,000 there. [Dr. N.] told Tutor M. the other day that he had lost $300,000, and to me he intimated that his ability to pay his debts depended upon entirely how Stillman, Allen and Company got out of their failure. So ends the brilliant bubble, the toil of a life to roll up a fortune ostensibly for Un. Coll. but as really for himself as any other money-maker's labors. 
Students return to college, quite as fast as usual in spite of hard times Yesterday and today 66 have paid their bills; last year 57 had paid at the close of two days. 
Sunday January 10, 1858. Bright, warm day. In morning to the Baptist Ch. Rev. Mr. Day preached. Rest of the day home with wife. Bishop H. Potter and wife are said to be in town. He is to preach this evening at the Episcopal Church. 
Monday January 11, 1858. Rainy, muggy, weather. The 6 or 8 in. of snow which made good sleighing is now fast thawing; by morning nothing will be left. Ten new students have entered. Met the Sophomore Class and gave out a lesson for tomorrow in Davies Bourdon's Algebra -beginning at ****, section 150, 3 sections. Dr. L[ewis] in office today while groaning around --low-spirited and fretting; said, "Oh, I should like to be in a condition to lie right down and do nothing, think nothing, just like an oyster." It was Bp. Potter's son Henry who preached yesterday; the Bp. is sick and "laying upon his oars" in Penn., so the son says. 
Tuesday January 12, 1858. Bright beautiful day. First rec. in Algebra. Two divisions of Sophomore Class of about 22 each. We begin with Art. 150 -Davies' Bourdon. The failure of the Bristol Copper Mine Co., which consist[s] of E. Nott alone in fact altho others appear in it, is mentioned in todays papers. This result would have been fortunate for the holder of the proper-ty had it happened 15 yrs. ago; more than 500 thousand dollars have been [invested?] there which no sane man in his pruden[ce] would have thought of venturing; has also sank $140,000 in his Bald Mt. lime speculation. In fine, all is gone. Judge P. said to me tonight, "Saw Blatchford in 
N.Y.yesterday; he says Bristol Cop[per] Co. has failed and "the the Dr. has lost all, nothing left." Saw Mrs. Paige tonight in the street: says Ludlow of Senior Class ( of Oswego) is hopelessly ill of heart disease, lying at Clifton water-cure establishment. 
Wednesday January 13, 1858. Mild fine day. I was well last night but by advice took 3 Ayer's pills to get better and today have had gripings and pain for my folly. It is nothing but pay-pay for Coll. Every one thinks she is made of money and has only to ask to get it. Wind south tonight and thawing. 
Thursday January 14, 1858. Mild and thawing. It is said that all American women are unhealthy, sick; I believe it. I do not know 6 women among all my acquaintances who may be called quite healthy. It is needless to give reasons --defective education is the prime cause. 
A new thing has made itsá appearance called Kerosene --a vegitable -or rather coal oil distilled from light coals rich in bitumen. I have tried it some time in my house and think it the best illuminating material we have ever used. Being a heavy hydrocarbon and boiling at a high temperature, it is said not to be explosive like camphine and other light vegitable extracts. It has a slight odour of coal tar. A new cheap, clean, and safe article for light has long been needed. Gas ls dear in the country and often bad. The fixtures for it are also costly. Oil (whale) ls both high and poor. Camphine altho' cheap and highly charged with light-bearing matter is both offensive in smell and explosive. It has killed more people in this country within 10 years than gunpowder has. 
Friday January 15, 1858. Mild, snow mostly gone, the rest going fast. Finished my Treas. Report and copying the same: 10 pp. and 4 copies, in all 40 pp. One copy for Dr. Nott, Dr. Backus, Judge Paige and Mr. E. C.Delavan, Finance Comm. All this is probably labor lost as it passes the Com. without much examination. 
Saturday January 15, 1858. Rain nearly all day,very little snow, much mud. VpH. stepped into Treas. Office. I said, "So Bristol copper mine has failed." "Yes", says he, "and the Dr's $100,000 is sunk in the mud there. Bradford spent $400,000 there for him and the Dr. has put in $100,000 since. So with the Cove property that is all gone. Stillman, Allen and Co's mortgage of .$80,000 upon that property is the Dr's mortgage and the getting of his money out of it depends upon Lowber's sale to the city. That's the reason why College cannot foreclose and obtain the money due from L[owber]. If you sue L., you sue [Dr. N.]. If you take the property, you cut off [Dr. N.]'s mortgage; besides, Jas. Brown has loaned L. and the [Dr.?] $40,0000 for which he holds L's judgement against the city." 
Saw Dr N. who says Mr. Delavan has been over from Albany this morning to arrange for buying the minerals of Wheatley for College; he proposes to give W. his nqte for $5000. secured by an assignment of stock to the amount of $10,000 par value and to give College another note for $5,000 secured by another $10,000 worth of stock upon which College is to loan him 5,000 cash to be paid Mr. Wheatley. 
Saturday January 18, 1858. Fine day. Wife and self to Second Dutch Church to hear Doctor Nott preach. He preach[ed] with considerable freedom and ease. Sometimes his voice is feeble and much obstructed by a cough. His sermon was one of his small stock which I have often heard before; it was committed to memory as all his sermons are and was delivered without a note or scrap of paper before him. His compositions are very elaborate and always smell of the lamp; his delivery is studied; and his gestures are proper as if made before the glass. Altho' polished and eloquent, his sermons seem to want heart and please the fancy more than they touch the heart. 
Monday January 18, 1858. Cool, clear and comfortable. Prof. N[ewman] dropped in to Treas. Off. and spoke of [Dr. N] 's financial embarrasment. In the end he exclaimed, "What a history would the minute recital of his money transactions make!" Prof G[illespie]called and the conversation turned upon Mr. E.C.D[elavan]'s temperance operations; he does believe D. to be entirely honest,thinks he approves of the sale of liquor in his hotel. 
Tuesday January 18, 1858. Good cool winter weather, no sleighing, but little snow. Student sick, a Mr. Simmons, a new-comer from Illinois. The disease seems to be a congestion of the brain and it is doubtful if he gets well. His father, the Rev. Michael S[immons] lives at Ira., Joe Davies Co. Illinois, -a Unitarian Minister. Saw Mr. Whitney, geologist, at Dr. N's study; he is spending the winter in Albany writing and printing a report on the geology of Iowa in connection with Prof. Hall. 
Wednesday January 20, 1858. Bright mild day. Called out of recitation by Mr. E. C. Delavan to talk about the Wheatley minerals and shells which he proposes to buy for Un. Coll. at $10,000. Says he dont how to pay the money now and would but for Dr. Nott; has had to pay so much for the Temperance Society that it has embarrassed.him. Again, if he does get the collection, 'dont mean to have it liable for any debts of the College --means to leave it in Trust with the Trustees so that if Un. Coll. is ever closed up it may revert to his. family or to some other institution. Un. Coll. is bankrupt; where will you get money from to carry on operation? etc." 
Mr. D. also spoke of what Prof. Henry of Smithsonian Institute said to him respecting VpH.'s book (some book he had written, did not know what) that it contained "transcendental notions" and intimated that they were unorthodox and would not be tolerated in [the] community. If that be the case, says Mr. D., he can't be president ofU.C. and perhaps he wont any way. Said I was surprised at the charge and had never heard any such report before. Saw Judge Paige in P. M. on some matters of business. 
Young Simmons, student, died this evening at 6 o'clock of congestion of brain --induced, as is thought, by severe study overtasking that organ. His fa[ther] lives in Ira. Ill. 
Thursday January 21, 1858. Bright, clear, mild day. The funeral of young Simmons is to be tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock; the body is to be deposited in the receiving vault of Dutch Church till his father arrives. His Aunt (Manly) arrived from Auburn this morning. This is the second death of [a] College student this session, Young Ludlow of Oswego being the first. --.
Friday January 22, 1858. Cold --perhaps the coldest day of the year, yet the mercury is not down to zero. At 10 attended the funeral of young Simmons at the house where he died, Onderkirk's in Franklin Street, opposite the Catholic Church. The college was there. From thence the body was taken to the receiving vault of the First Dutch Church there to await the arrival of his father. 10 1/2 A.M. Dr. Nott sent for me to show a letter of Mr. Delavan's in which he says the bargain for Wheatleys Cabinet is closed, that everything in the collection --duplicates, cases, shells etc. is to be given up to College. Mr. D. now proposes to start a subscription of $1,000 to buy new cases and to pay for putting up the collection, and Dr. N. wishes me to show the letter to Dr. Backus and Judge Paige, hoping they may further the object by a liberal subscription. He also wants measures taken for selling $5,000 worth of New York Central R.R. bonds to raise the cash payment. Called to seeJudge P. and Dr. B. --neither of them at home. , 
Saturday January 23, 1858. Called this morning to see Judge Paige and talk with him about the purchase of the Wheatley minerals. Altha impressed with the importance getting the collection for College, he somewhat doubts the propriety of selling securities belonging to the "State Funds" and and taking a note of hand (altho' it be Mr. Delavans) with only ordinary stocks as security. Then had a conversation with Dr. Backus on the same subject and about raising $1000 by subscription to make cases for the collection and to put them up. He said he knew where he could [get] one hundred dollars (meaning from himself) but did not know where to get the rest. [I?] thought five hundred would be enough. He then referred to my last report, said it set him into a fume and gave him the blues to find the financial affairs of College so unpromising. I said my endeavour was to tell the exact truth, thereby to clear my skirts from charge of concealment --that it had been said that the money affairs of College had been covered up and that the Trustees had not been suffered to know the truth, that it was my intention to avoid any such imputation, not however with the expectation that the Board would or could at once set our affairs on a favorable footing. I said also that it was very desirable that the Finance Committee should come together at stated periods for the purpose of consultation and advice. He answered that so long as Dr. N. lived that could not be done, that he would feel trammelled by such a mode of doing business and might be nettled by what would seem to him to be a trenching upon his authority. He deprecated also the hurried manner in which the Board did business at their meetings in July, thought it a mere farce --this also could not be helped now. Spoke very decidedly in reference to the interference of the next President in the financial affairs of College, that he would have to confine himself to his appropriate duties if he (Backus) could have any influence in the matter. 
At two P.M. started for Albany to see Mr. Delavan about the Wheatley Collection: at dinner when I arrived but soon came down and entered at once upon the business. He gave me a letter from Prof. Whitney who went down to see the minerals, in which he speaks in the highest terms of them. Asked Mr. D. what was the stock he offered to pledge as security with his note; he answered the Fox River and Wisconsin Improvement Co. stock. I asked him when he would need the money; answered he thought not before the first of Feb., as the articles had to be delivered before the money was paid. But says he [thinks?] there is one thing Dr. N. must do (according to agreement) before I give my notes. "More than two years ago he subscribed one thousand dollars to distribute Temperance papers. On the strength of that subscription I borrowed the money and spent it printing documents, my-self becoming responsible for it; now I insist upon it that this money shall be paid as I have a heavy load to carry for the State Temperance Society, more than $10,000." Went with him down to Mr. Cornings store to see what the exact amount of Dr. N's subscription now is: and found it near $1,200 with interest added. Mr. Delavan said the Dr. had assured him it should be paid if he had to take it out of his salary. Accordingly he caused two drafts to be drawn on the Treas. of College, one payable May 1. , the other Aug 1. , which d[ra]fts included the whole sum due. Said I would present them to Dr. N. Mr. D., "Tell him I shall be ready to sign my note when he is ready to secure the payment of his subscription." 
To Gray's bookstore and home at 7 .20. 
In evening Dr. N. sent for me to know tlie result of my mission, told so far as it was proper with others present but said nothing about the temperance subscription. He wanted to know if the N.Y. Cent. R.R. Bonds could be sold now in order to raise the $5,000 for Mr. Delavan; [I] said they could but at some sacrifice as they were below par, but if we could hold on, thought they would go up, that Mr. Delavan and myself had called on Mr. Pryne, Treasurer of the R. Road, and he was inclined to believe that the tend-ency would be upward and suggested borrowing the money on them and to sell when they had reached the highest point. 
Sunday January 24, 1858. Beautiful day; mild, still and warm. To church in A.M. at Bapt. Ch. Rev. Mr. Day preached. P.M. home with wife who is indisposed. Our roads are now so free from ice and snow that they are dusty! Dr. Halley of Albany preached in Pres. Ch. having exchanged with Dr. Backus. Considerable religious interest in the city churches. 
Monday January 25, 1858. Nothing done all day except to hear my recitations. Called in the afternoon upon Judge P. to arrange for raising the $5000. for Mr. Delavan to enable him to purchase the Wheatley Cabinet: no result. This slipshod way of doing business is most annoying and time-killing. instead of meeting together and discussing the business, which [Dr. N.] doesnt want done, the Treasurer is obliged to trot around from one member of the Finance Committee to another and hear their individual opinions and objections. If it be a business of importance, this parapetetic method of doing nothing gets to be a real bore. The Committee would be glad to do differently but they know that [Dr. N.] is opposed to doing any thing in a regular systematic manner. 
Tuesday, January 26, 1858. Rain, fog, mud and water. Mr. Delavan came over and a meeting of the Finance Committee was held at Dr. Backus study. Present: Dr. Nott, Judge Paige, Mr. Delavan, Dr. Backus being absent. The matter of loaning Mr. D. five thousand dollars on his note to enable him to make a payment on the Wheatley Collection was discussed. Judge [Paige] made the objection that such a loan was not according to our rules, but it was finally decided to strain a point in this case and make the loan The next question was "Shall we sell the stock or rather bonds of the N.Y. Cent. R.R. Co. now while they are rising or hold on for higher prices?" This was decided thus: to sell the 6% bonds now and to make a loan of the balance at one of our banks if possible till the 7% Bonds get up to par. Judge P. then spoke of writing to Mr. Anable for a statement of accounts at Hunter Point at which suggestion [Dr. N.] was áevidently nettled and showed some signs of anger. Mr. Delavan privately said that Dr. N. must pay that $1,200 which he had subscribed for the temperance society before he made over the minerals. I agreed with him but did not give much encouragement that it would be done Dr. N. said to one [me?] this morning that he had signed with the understanding that it was to be paid when convenient. Mr. D., however, took it to be absolute or he would not have borrowed the money on the strength of it. 
Albany Wednesday January 27, 1858. At two o'clock to Albany again to perfect the business of the Wheatley purchase. Dr. N. and Mrs. along. Found Mr. Delavan at dinner --drew up two obligations after a rough draft by Judge Paige, one for Union College and the other for Mr. Wheatley, both for $5,000 and secured by $10,000 worth of Fox and Wisconsin Improvement Co. each. All papers drawn and signed, handed to Mr. D[elava]n New York Cent. R. Road bonds to the value of $5,000 and took his note in exchange. He Dr. N., Mrs D. & Mrs. N. go to New York tonight to finish up the business with Mr. Wheatley. So far everything moves smoothly; the gift is a fine one and should be duly appreciated. Nevertheless I can but wish it had been in money and for the Library. Saw Hon. Bradford R. Wood in Mr. Sprague's book-store. The conversation falling upon the Revolutionary War, he gave many anecdotes of persons he had known in his neighbor-hood when a boy in Conn. Home at 7.20. 
Thursday January 28, 1858. Vph. thinks [Dr. N.] had better stay at home, that his jaunts to N. Y. and other places have only the semblance of business, flattering himself that his presence is very necessary in this or that affair. Mr. Delavan said to me in Albany, "If [Dr. N.] had put his property into my hands or into the hands of some person whom I could have recommended 15 years since, he would have worth $2,000,000 now. At this time he is not worth a cent. 
Friday ~anuary 29, 1858. Wintry, put little or no snow. Prof. Gillespie] tells me that Lowber is in town, came up to see Dr. N. who is in N.Y. I asked him why he did not pay the interest on his bonds and Mr. L. answered that it was agreed that the interest should not commence till the conclusion of the lawsuit between Thayer and Flagg and Dr. Nott and that this suit would not be settled these 5 years. Moreover, that he had paid certain moneys to Dr. N. (which of course is false except perhaps the last assertion which may be all true. Is there any truth and honor among money makers? Is there anyone who will tell the truth to his own hurt?). 
Prof**. dropped in last night and speaking of the magnificent cabinet just now given to U. Coll. by Mr. Delavan fairly groaned in spirit at this waste of money ! How many books would that sum buy! How little do our Trustees appreciate a good library! Thousands are given away for the polytechnic studies, not a cent for the academic and regular course. He thought it a poor compliment to the college when the embellishments of such an institution as ours receives more attention than the solid parts and backbone of it. --Saw Judge 
P. in relation to borrowing $500 to complete the sum necessary for officers salaries. Thought Schen. Bank would do it. Dr. N. wrote yesterday to Dr. H[ickok?] that Wheatleys collection would fill 3 cars and that the first load would leave N.Y. this P.M. and of course will reach Schen. tomorrow. 
Saturday January 30, 1858. Windy but not severely cold. But little work done in Treas. Off., frequent interruptions, talks, errands etc. Letter from Wheatley in N.Y. saying that 54 boxes would be sent off today, Friday, by Hudson River R.R. Having secured the minerals, it is now a question how they shall be disposed of. Our present room was thought to be full of the old collection. It is proposed to [put] this elsewhere and to arrange the new minerals in its place. To increase the room, table cases are are proposed, say three rows down the middle of the room. 
Sunday January 31, 1858. At home all day with wife who is indisposed. I hear today of the death of Deacon Bush suddenly while sitting in his chair. He belonged to a Massachusetts family from Long Meadow. I think, on Conn. River. 
Monday February 1, 1858. Fine bright day. All day busy in paying.quarterly salaries of Professors. 1st. to Schenectady Bank and borrowed $800 to keep account good. 2nd from 10 to 12 o'clock in recitation. 3d. Made out checks anad sent them by Mr. Gilbert to be countersigned. To dinner. At 2 1/2 o'clock found that Cashier of Mohawk Bk. had refused Nott Trust Fund checks, contrary to agreement. To the bank and set that difficulty aright. Three o'clock to office again and tilf 4 1/2 paying out checks. Wendel, bookseller, says there has been trouble in the Mohawk Bk--books and accounts out of order. The Bank was bondsman for the Co. Treasurer, Van.derveer, and promised to keep his accounts provided he would deposit his receipts at the Bk. In consequence of loose accounts, when settlement-day came, all was out of ge[a]r. In consequence, Van I. V., one of the clerks resigned, and John Bradt has been appointed C[ler]k to straiten out these crooked matters. 
Yesterday read Dr. Nott's argument for two kinds of wine spoken of in Scriptureá, viz. one good --i.e. unintoxicating, unfermented --the other bad wine --intoxicating, fermented wine. Could find no good proof that such a distinction is made in Scripture, that fermented wine is called bad and condemned or that unfermented wine is called good and approved of. Have no doubt that his argument is sophistical and false. Such means to prop a cause reacts and injures it. There is but one sound, universal, potent argument for total abstinence from all that intoxicates --that is Paul's resolution to eat and drink nothing by which his brother might be offended or fall 
Tuesday February 2, 1858. Snow and sleet. Hav'nt had half an idea today. 
Wednesday February 3, 1858. Warm today, sloppy. In all the churches, especially Methodist and Baptist, there is a religious revival. They have had but little preaching but many prayer and conference meetings. This P.M. there has been a Union Prayer meeting at the Bapt. Wife quite indisposed these several days. 
Thursday February 4, 1858. Beautiful day. The ice crop of the Mohawk is now being harvested with all haste. There is 6 to 8 in. of good clean ice and 3 of snow ice. Received from Mr. Delavan two drafts for acceptance made by Dr. Nott. Called on the latter to know how these were to be paid. He authorised me to take the amount ($1000) out of his salary, half May 1, and half on Aug 1 next. Accepted the d[ra] fts then conditionally, provided Dr N. be alive and his salary be due at the above dates. 
Friday February 5, 1858. Cool today --more writing. Opened Library 2 to 3 P.M. 
College goes on day by day like a great machine, always the same, showing the same phases daily. Dr. Hickok called last evening to make arrangements for a meeting in Chapel tomorrow evening for the students on the account of the religious interest manifested. U.C. has not often been blest with religious revivals. Few Am. Colleges have had so few as ours. 
Saturday February 6, 1858. Cool. temp. 35 á. Cloudy and prospect of snow. Thirty-five boxes of the Wheatley Collection of minerals and three cases of drawers: this closes the lot. Next week the shells will be sent. Rumors are about this P.M. that there had been a personal conflict in the House of Rep-resentatives at Washington, growing out of the Kansas question. This may well be, judging from the last news from there. 
Sunday February 7, 1858. Wife better. At home all day with her. 
Monday Feberuary 8, 1858, There is a new lamp oil now being introduced into use called by some Coal Oil or Kerosene. It makes a good light, is cheap and is said to be safe. It is time that the lighter hydrocarbon explosive compounds should go out of use; they have killed more than gunpowder in time of peace. Cold, but not severely so The ice crop of Schenectady is all in and on the whole exceeds our expectations. 
Tuesday February 9, 1858. Snow all day, moderate wind S.E. Havnt had two ideas today. P.M. uninteresting, gloomy. 
Wednesday February 10, 1858. Cold and blustering. Good sleighing. Wife pretty well. Mother so-so. Last spring Dr. Nott began a house for himself and wife (to be eventually the President's House) on Union St. next to the front gate. This he expected would be paid for by a Mrs. Crugar and brothers of New York, who have agreed to furnish the means. How much has been advanced no one knows; the work, however, is at a stand still and may not be resumed even in the spring. 
Thursday February 11, 1858. Cold and windy. Dr Backus called this evening, talks of enlarging the Presbyterian church, thinks it better to do so than to start a second Church, thereby making two weak ones. His plan is to make a transept about midway the ch., in one part of which the pulpit is to stand. Another plan is to make a transept near the north end, making the Ch. cruciform. 
Friday February 12, 1858. Bright day but cool. Tis said there are many worthy mechanics who suffer for want of the necessaries of life, persons who never begged or asked for charity. Such secretly suffer rather than make their wants known. Today paid a Dr's bill for 3 years: Dr Swits, $40.00, much too little if his services are worth anything. He has made 100 calls, I have no doubt, in that time. 
Saturday February 13, 1858. Cold, wintry. At 8 o'clock A.M. to Albany. On way saw Gen. Cady who spoke of the state of the poor in Schendy. Many of the most deserving do not complain or make their wants known; the least deserving, the beggars by trade, make the most noise. 
Saw Hough -P. Potter's late partner-in-law in business, now partner in Albany of Cochrane and Reynolds; says P. Potter's and Judge Paiges' families have no intercourse --probably never will. Their misunder-standing grew out of the late political strife for Judgeship in which Paige an Potter, altho' brother's in law, ran upon opposite tickets. H[ough] says Judge P[aige's[?] income from his property is about $5000 of which $1000 is from the copy[w]right of his law reports. At 10 started for West Troy where got $412.50 at W. Troy Bk., being rents for leases held by U.C. Notwithstanding hard times, the tenants paid better than last year. To Troy and at 1O m. before 12 m. to depot to start for home and saw the tail end of the train up the street, jumped on a dray and drove furiously after it for a mile to Green Island where still saw nothing but the tail going up the hill towards Schendy. Back to depot and took train for East Albany where arrived at 1 o'clock --across upon the ice and to N.Y. Centr. Depot to take the Emigrant Train for Rome ,found it had been gone 3 m[inutes] and just in sight up the street; followed on after as fast as possible and fortunately overtook it whilst getting out of an entanglement with another train. Home at 2 P.M. Deposited money in the Bk. ($412.50), lunch, and to the Hill. Found Dr. and Mrs. N. going to Troy where he preaches tomorrow. 
They inform me that Dr. Potter, Bp. of Epis. Ch. in Penn., had received a stroke of paralysis at Greenburgh near Pittsburgh. Dr. N. said it was not unexpected to him, nor did he hope much from the news of amendment. 
Sunday February 14, 1858. Cold and snowy. To Baptist Ch. Mr. Day preached on Baptism, and at noon baptised 13 young persons at the foot of Ferry Street. There is much religious feeling not only in this Ch. but in all the Chhs. in the city. In P.M. and evening at home with wife and boys. Read Pilgrims Progress to them, a book always new and pleasing. 
Monday February 15, 1858. Cold and windy. In evening at a meeting of Trustees of Bapt. Ch. at H. Champions house to discuss the project of making a baptistry in the Ch. Only one, or rather two, difficulties presented themselves. Ist, to get the water into the tank; 2d. how to get money to build it with. A poor ch. like ours in this pinching time can but**** and gc;>with its ordinary expenses. 
Tuedsday February 16, 1858. Cold and windy, snow flies, no longer any complaint of want of winter weather. At two oclock P.M. attended a meeting of the Board of Education at Union School building. The principal matter of business was the discussion of a proposed enlargement of the back building, called the primary department, by the addition of one story and a room or two at the north side. After much talk for and against the plan it was voted to build at a cost of not more than $2,000. 
Wednesday February 17, 1858. Very cold and disagreeable, made so cheifly by a constant n[orth] w[ind]. 
Thursday February 18, 1858. Today like yesterday --cold, windy, disagreeable. Today the remainder of the Wheatley Collection came --2 6 boxes of shells, and 4 cases of draws. In all, the Collection is contained in 115 boxes. Cases 7 . I informed Mr. Delavan of its arrival. Next movement is to get the necessary cases and to arrange the specimens. Dr. N. must raise the means or they will not be --no one will move in the matter. We have all been accustomed, Fae., Trustees etc., to have our thinking and acting done for us so long that no one feels willing or able to do more than the most evident duty .. 
Friday February 19, 1958. This is one of the bad effects of absorbing everything into one man's hands. There are others equally fatal to success! The weather is cold and raw. The news from Bp. Potter of Penn. is that he is better and out of immediate danger: He proposes soon to leave Greenburgh for home 1n Phila. and to come [from] there to N.Y. for medical treatment. His friends here hope but little for his recovery to his usual health or even to a state of usefulness. This a sad end to an active life. He is thought to have labored too hard the past ten years. Had he remained in U.C., there is reason to believe that his health would have been better and his life longer. 
Saturday February 20, 1858. Snow moderately all day, 6 in. of light.feathery snow tonight. All day writing dunning letters made necessary by the want of proper laws by the Trustees. Heard today of the sickness of Mr. Clarkson F. Crosby in N.Y. In the fall he went south for his health but, becoming-worn, hastened home to die. Mr. N. thinks him dead by this time -Prof. Dr. T. in office today much exercised on the Kansas question. The change in his views in two years is quite striking. He was formerly the warm est apologist for slavery. Now he goes quite as far the other way. From the beginning of Kansas iniquity this change began and every fresh outrage on freedom has only confirmed and hastened the work. His is the history of many a Northern Conservative and is quite instructive. 
Sunday February 21, 1858. Fine day, bright, and warm. Sunday to Baptist Church. Rev. Mr. Day preached, after which he baptised at the foot of Ferry Street. The religious excitement is still kept up and many young persons show evidence of a change. 
Monday February 22, 1858. Good cold winter weather. The winter is recovering its usual character, snows and cold prevail, the mild weather of Dec. and Jan. have gone. Washington's Birthday, an occasion for military tramping, drumming and tooting about town, for students "bolts" and for balls in the evening. 
Tuesday February 23, 1858. My own birthday, 45 yrs. old. How soon now old age will steal upon me --if spared! 
Dr. T. is notoriously the most figgety Prof. in college -the hardest to get suited -the most troublesome to be associated with. No one wishes to occupy with him the same recitation room because he keeps it in such disorder and in so dirty a condition. Moreover he is sure to leave his key or get his key hole stopped and so be forced to bang the door down. Yesterday the boys stopped up his key hole (at No. 9, N. Colon.). Instead of entering the back door thro' Prof. Newman's house and opening the door from within, he takes the much more tedious unprofesssional method of driving in the door with an axe. 
I hear that C.F. Crosby is dead--a very sudden and unexpecteq death to his acquaintances in these parts. 
Great noise and hubbub at prayer time on account of delay of some classes in getting into Chapel, keeping those present waiting. At chem. lecture tonight a small India Rubber balloon was sent up, guided and held by a string. 
Wednesday February 24, 1858. Weather a little milder, wind S.E. Dr. 
N. had a meeting last evening of a few citizens at the Common Council room to raise means for making cases for and putting up Mr. Delavan's donation of the Wheatley minerals. I am told that about 15 persons were present and that $700. was subscribed. This is a very fair beginning and is due to the efforts of Dr. Backus cheifly . 
The cemetery question is making great talk and discussion in the city --how it shall be managed, by Corporation or Trustees, whether as city property or that of a company under the general cemetery law and not under a special charter or law. 
Thursday February 25, 1858. Fine day: warm, thawy. This being the day set apart as a day of fasting and prayer for colleges and other seminaries of learning, service was held in College Chapel at 1 0 A.M. Rev. Mr. Robinson of Troy preached an excellent sermon from the text, "The Master hath come and called for thee." His discourse was pointed and Just, adapted to the occasion. The Chapel was well filled with students and town people. I think so many people never attended on this occasion. There seems to be much seriousness in College and the student's prayer meetings are well attended. 
Friday February 26, 1858. Bright day, the sun runs high now and makes his heat felt upon the snow. Bro.-in-law Magoun wrote a day or two since for a law student, Richmond Fisk Jr. of Senior Class; went to Hudson yesterday and secured the place. 
Saturday February 27, 1858. Called on Mrs. N. this morning, says she has heard from her sister Cynthia now in Cuba with her neice Harriet Anable. H.A. is no better, probably worse; if well enough she will start immediately for home. Bp. Potter has not been heard from for nearly a week. Mrs. N. says also that there is great religious feeling in College and that several have been converted. At 12 o'clock started with wife for Saratoga Springs to see Dr. Bedertha of water.cure celebrity. Arrived at 2 P.M. but learned that Dr. B. is not at home; saw Mrs. B. Saratoga, like all other places, shows evidence of dullness; it looks like a place to let. At 4 1/4 P.M. started for home where arrived at 6 o'clock. 
Sunday February 28, 1858. At home all day with wife who is not quite well. The religious feeling in College seems to continue 
unabated. It is said there have been as many as 16 to 18 conversions among the students. 
Monday March 1, 1858. March comes in mild and warm The snow is fast melting away. Commenced today to dig a well. Dr. N. sent for me to talk about the laying out of the eastern end of Liberty St. so as to avoid passing thro' "Prospect Hill." The project is to pass around the no. side of the Hill, thus avoiding the expense of excavation. Went over and made measure-mentswith Geo. Gilbert. 
Tuesday March 2, 1858. Some snow last night. Squalls and high wind through the day. Dr. L[ewis] (Prof.) inveighs loudly against the West Minster Review as an infidel public and unfit to be read by young men. Probably he is right. Its character has much changed for the worse within five years. A Mr. Cochran, author of a little work on Agricultural Bookkeeping, called to show and explain the advantages of his book. It is easier to make a book on this subject than to make farmers understand and use it or its methods. 
Wednesday March 3, 1858. Cold and wintry. The cemetery question which has so exercised the citizens of S[chenectady] for some weeks was put to rest last night in the Common Council, by a resolution to sell the grounds to a company organised under the "General Law" for $5000. This settlement is probably the best that could be made. Had a letter from Dr. Bedortha of Saratoga Spgs. proposing to lecture here a few times with[in] the next fort-night on consumption etc. On consulting some persons it was that best that his lectures should be postponed on account of the religious meetings which are now held every evening and by most of the churches. 
Thursday March 4, 1858. Cold. The subscription for cases etc. for the Wheatley-Delavan Collection of minerals has reached the neighborhood of $1000 but now sticks and hangs. Dr. Backus, if anyone, can raise the $1,500. Schenectady,, however, is unpropitious ground for such attempts. The poor work people of the Schen. Locomotive Works are encouraged with the promise of resuming business on the 10th inst. They have been idle and almost starving thro' the winter. 
Friday March 5, 1858. Wind N.W., the coldest day of the year. Faculty meeting after evening prayers at which were Dr. Nott, Dr. Hickok, Dr. Lewis, Dr. Jackson, Dr. Gillespie, Prof. Foster, Prof. Newman, Tutor Millard, Tutor Bartlett. The object of the meeting was to consider a proposition of Bp. Delancey to the Regents of the Univ. to establish prizes for the best college students of this State as a stimulus to good scholarship. After a considerable discussion it was decided by most of the Fae. that the project in its present shape was impracticable, and if tried would fail. 
Saturday March 6, 1858. Weather d[itt]o. Our faculty meetings are few and quite informal. There is no order of business, and no record of proceedings. At the January meeting Prof. G[illespie] proposed that we have a Secretary and that a record be kept of our proceedings. The presiding officer did not favor the plan and it failed. Like a parcel of children, we never do anything without his sanction. We have had our thinking done for us so long that the power is quite taken from us of doing it. At our meetings nothing is ever put to vote if it can be be helped; we are permitted to talk and joke about matters but no really grave question is ever given to us for discussion and solution. At our meeting last night Prof. G. said it is usual in councils of war for youngest officers to give their opinions first, and proposed that we should do so now. Dr. N. said that this reminded him of a meeting many years ago in New Haven, of the College Presidents in New England and other states. It was proposed that the order of precedence should be according to age and that many of those present would not tell their age. He found him-self the oldest president, but the youngest man. 
Sunday March 7, 1858. Mild winter weather. To Bapt. [Ch.] A.M. and 
P.M. In forenoon after sermon by Mr. Day he baptised 5 young women and 2 lads in the new baptistery beneath the pulpit platform. The Ch. was full and the ceremony was both solemn and appropriate. In the afternoon at least 30 persons, all young, were received to the church and partook of their first communions, a very pleasing and encouraging sight. Called at Mr. Champions and found him miserably sick with some internal ailment which the doctors know nothing about and cannot cure. 
Monday March 8, 1858. Dr. Hickok goes to New York tonight to attend a meeting of the Committee of Graduates appointed last Commencement to build the "Graduates Hall." What may be the result of this movement is still ip. doubt, altho' after what Mr. Delavan has done in giving the Wheatley Cabinet it is hoped the friends of Union College .... 
Friday December 4, 185 7. The great topic f gossip this week is the New York City electio by which one Woo been Mayor 3
áMH-ttt:r.'I 
yrs. was defeated in the th attempt. He ch ged with all sorts of rascality which if true only o much the ore sh w[s] him to be a flt representative of that sink o agues. tis a marve to everyone that he failed of a re-election; it wa th the majority o 
the voters were rascals and therefore Wood-men. 
Saturday December 5, 1858. no more flt for such a Sodom as N.Y. th Satan is t for a priest. W at is wanted there is a strong despot" governme t --swift justic and well-meted punishment. Now the mob rules. ometimes it se ms as tho' hell were let loose: m rders, rob-beries nd slaughter fi llow in so quick succession that ustice seems stun[n d. Few cities o its size, I presume, are so u safe for life and pro erty: few hav been so plundered by a sh meful government. It i doubtful wh ther the mere election of a honest mayor will stay th flood of iniq ity. 
Sunday Dec. 6 36 á t. At h day wit ife who is slowly getti am -ed rmons today on the ry of his ctady-origin seems to be oubt -n no very reliable traditions exi it. Sunday Dec 7 -'5 7 For some da the Report on the affairs of Col e to the Regents o This is a useless [form] matter"1n the form & frequency it is made: much 
Bartlett The object of the meeting was to co á er a proposition of Bp.D lancey to the Regents of the Univ. t establish prizes for the best Co e Students of this State as / á a stimulus good scholarship. After a onsiderable di,scussion it was, decided by m t of the fac. that the roject in it~p esent shape was impracticable, an át tried would f; 1.Mar. 6 1858 aturday Un. Coll. Weather do. Our fac cy meetin are few & qui informal. There is no order of business, a nor cord of pro-ce dings. At the January meeting Prof. G. propose t we have a S retary & that a record be kept of our proceeding -the presidin officer did not favor the plan & it failed -like a p r-c of child en we never do any thing [any thing] without his nction. e ha e had our thinking done for us so long that the po er is quite k n from us of doing it. At our meetings nothing is er put to vot áfit can be be helped, we are permitted to talk nd joke abo17i atters but yto really grave question is ever ven to us for; disc -sion &/solution. At our meeting last nig Prof. G. said ;it is us 1 in councils of war for youngest officer to give their_/5pinions fi st ~,, proposed that we should do so n . Dr. N. said inat this. rem d him of a meeting many years ag in New Have , of the Colle Presidents in/_ w England & other states -It w s proposed t at the [oldest] ,or r of prece-dence should be ac ording to age that many of hose resent would not tell their ag . He found hi -self the oldes presid t but the young est man. r 7 1858 Sun ay U.C. Mild inter we ther -To Bapt. 
A.M. & P. . In forenoo after sermon y Mr. Day e baptised 5 young wa en & 2 lads án the new bap stery beneat the pul-pit platfor -the Ch. was full & the cer mony was bo solemn & appropr, ate. In the aft noon aleast 3 persons all yo g were re ceived o the church a d partook of th ir first Communio s -a very pleasi and encourag ng sight. Calle at Mr. Champions nd found him iserably sick w th some inter al ailment which th Doctors know othing about & an not cure. 
[A gap here on disk and in text from March 8, 1858 to May 23, 1858] 
Sunday May 23, 1858. In morning to Bapt. Ch. Heard Rev. Mr. Day. Sent him a notice to read for three sabbaths of a meeting to choose three Trustees on the 9th of June next. 
Monday May 24, 1858. Rain yesterday and today. Saw Vph. He feels much dissatisfied with his situation --uncomfortable, without responsibility or power. The truth is he and [Dr. N.] do not agree; they are like oil and water without affinity or cordiality. In such a case I do not see that they can long remain together. It is not unlikely that Vph. will leave for a more congenial post and leave [Dr. N.] the "full swing," both nominal and real power. Such a conclusion [of] the business is much to be deplored, but I do not see how otherwise it can be arranged. Tuesday May 25, 1858. Botanizing with portion of my class 6 to 7 1/2 o'clock. 7 1/2 to 9 1/2 at a meeting of the Commissioners of Education. The principal discussion was on the amount of money to be raised by taxation the com-ing year. A few desired to place the sum at $8,500 but the majority made it $9,000. Among other matters the Classical Department was spoken of, and it was resolved to ask Dr. Nott to fulfil his engagement with the Board --first to pay the half of the Principal's salary for the last year and to pay the whole of it for the future. It was generally conceded that this salary should not be any longer a tax to the citizens. Either the Department of Latin and Greek should pay for itself or some other means besides taxation should be resorted to other than burthening the citizens with it. 
Wednesday, May 26, 1858. Rain all day -little else this 3 weeks. Dismal and suicidal weather. Made a search among old papers in Treasurer's Office for copies of Treasurer's Reports between the years 1800 and '24; quite unsuccessful. If he made any, they are probably lost as there seems to have been a perfect looseness in the transaction of business among all the officers from the President down except in the case of Jonas Holland who so far as he knew kept his papers and books with care. With him the difficulty was that he was ignorant of any system of bookkeeping --hence there was no intelligible statement which [could] give one a general view of the Finan. affairs of Coll. 
Thursday May 27, 1858. Rain still, cold and raw. G[illespie] says he and J[ackson] have had a blowup about the catalogue and some other matters. No wonder! such quick and irritable bodies should never have much and intimate intercourse with each other. Sooner or later they are sure to explode. No harm, however, is done in this case because in 5 days they will be more confidential than ever .... 
Friday May 28, 1858. Fine day, the first for a long time Saw Mrs. Alex. Holland of New York who says it has rained there every day this month; in fact it was telegraphed from N.Y. today as a piece of unexpected news that the day was clear and without rain. Saw Mr. Stanton this evening, the Principal of the Grammar Department of Union School. He naturally feels some anxiety as to his future standing after this year. When he came it was agreed that, on a year trial, if he suited us his name should be presented to the Visitors of College, Nott T[rust] Fund, for election and that his salary should be paid by said fund. Hence the question is asked both by him and the Commissioners of Education what will the Visitors do. 
Saturday May 29. 1858. Fine day. Mother Harvey came down from Saratoga Springs today and reports that Sarah is somewhat, though not decidedly, better in health. Saw Dr. N. today and conversed with him on several points: 1. I said to him that Robt. Furman desired to [know?] the price of "Prospect Hill" and the "Vale," that a friend of his was desirous to purchase land here and build himself a mansion. The Dr. did not seem to know what to ask for it, nor whether he wanted to sell it all. He is in the same position of uncertainty in regard to all College property south of Union Street. Whilst owing and paying interest on a debt of $20,000, we keep real estate of at least an equal value which yeilds nothing and gains nothing or next in nothing by keeping. The Dr. projects and contrives, but never finishes nor desires to finish anything 2. Asked him what would be done with Stanton, the classical teacher in Union School: he thought the Trustees would appoint him assistant Profess.Qr of College and pay $700. of his salary. etcetc. Daniel Vedder met me in tb._e street this morning, said he thought [Dr. N.] had used him very dishonorably in regard to his debt, could not think him an honest man and deceive him so etcetc. How little we know of a man from a general acquaintance with him. Money transactions test his character and often show the. dark side of it. Some cheat 6 days in the week and serve God the seventh. 
Sunday May 10, 1858. Beautiful day. To Baptist Church. Rev. Mr. Day preached a sermon on baptisms, to be continued next Sabbath with the addition of the subject of the Communion. After the forenoon service he baptised several persons in the river at the foot of Ferry street. Rev. Dr. Hickok preached in the Presbyterian Church, Dr. Backus being absent ...... On Friday afternoon last Mr. Sinclair of Scotland addressed the Sabbath School children of the city in the second Dutch Ch. and [in] the evening he spoke on temperance to the citizens. He is said to be a highly successful lecturer. 
Monday May 31, 1858. Rain again this evening. Freshman Prize Scholarship Examinations this evening, four candidates were present. These trials are very rigid anad searching; instead, however, of examining the literary acquirements of these young men it might be well first to inquire into the ability of College to pay these prizes. They are called Nott Prize Scholarships but it happens that by a curious arrangement the Nott Fund pays one third of the money and College two thirds! 1 
Tuesday June 1, 1858. Fine day warm etc. My Library days are Mondays and Tuesdays from 9 to 10 a.m. It ought to be opened every day. It is rumored from good authority that young Edwd. Potter gr[an]dson of Dr. N. and son-in-law of Mr. R.M. Blatchford, is expected up from New York to make drawings for the talked of New Graduates' Hall! This is very likely true. It would not be in keeping with all that we do in U.C. if we had any body but an architect's apprentice to project a plan of the most important building of the set. "It is impossible to do anything right here," as one of the Professors said to me today. When a man assumes all the authority and does all the planning, when his assurance is so great that he will as readily under-take to build a steam frigate as to raise a pigs-stye, you may then be sure that great mistakes will be made. Of all the wonders in finance, Union College is the greatest --that it has anything left is a miracle. Remay made a set of drawings at a cost of $1,500 for U.C. The very first element of [logic?] in architecture is wanting in them --the adaptation of the buildings to the end for which they are to be used. His plan was a mere picture -a shell. 
Wednesday June 2, 1858. Fine day. Judge Paige tells me their is some disturbance in the Schenectady Bank direction. Owing to some heavy losses of late years, attributed in a measure to the bad management of the President, the Directors lately went into a careful scrutiny of the bank assets. Judge P. hav-ing made some remarks which the President considered personal and reflecting á upon his management of affairs, the latter took high offence and is now making strong efforts to oust the former from his directorship and substitute another more friendly to the President. Judge Edmonds of N.Y. was on College Hill this evening and spoke a few words to the students at Chapel. It is understood that he has come up to consult in relation to the contemplated Graduate Hall. Examinations this evening, for clearing off conditions occasioned by absence from College. Edward Potter has arrived for the purpose, as it is understood, of making plans for the Graduates Hall. What he will make of it remains to be seen. If the building be built at all, and if when built it be not a botch and a failure, it will certainly be a wonder. "Too many cooks" etc.'tis true. Also, "in a multitude of counsellors etc." is equally true. It is said that the graduates have so little confidence in [Dr. N]'s management of money and planning of buildings that some will not give to the object at all if he has the direction; then again if he cannot do as he wishes in this matter, he will be greatly disobliged and distressed. 
Thursday June 3, 1858. Warm day. Prof. J.D. Whitney, who is busied putting in order our Wheatley Collection of Shells and Minerals has been for some time trying to get a certain alteration made in the Library and Mineral room He has been to Dr. N. repeatedly to obtain his sanction to the change but till this morning the Dr. would not commit himself by saying Yes. His answers as usual were partly "yes" and partly "no" always noncommittal. After much "hemming and hawing" he this morning came to the point and tho't it best to do it .. It is really amusing to see how strong this characteristic is with the Dr. ,even in the smallest matters. It seems to be a fixed rule with him never to commit himself so that he cannot draw back if he can possibly help it. In such cases if a transaction turns out well he does not object to take the credit of it --if badly, he can say that Pearson did it, and he had nothing to do with it. P[earson] however has become so wary now, particularly since the Dr. has caused a resolution giving him the supervision of College matters to be passed by the Trustees, that he will do nothing nor allow anything to be done in his name unless by the President's sanction. Edward Potter called at the Treasurer's office today for the old plans of Remay for the Round Chapel. Whether this is to be the plan to be adopted by the graduates for their Hall -who can say? It has always been a favorite plan with Dr. N., alone almost, and if he continues to like it he will certainly carry it in some way. I think (and so do others) that this is absurd and wasteful --all convenience and comfort are to be sacrificed to outside show which, the moment one reflects upon it, must appear impracticable. At 6.30 P.M. out with my class botanising. My class is a good one and disposed to learn. 
Friday June 4, 1858. Beautiful weather. Tonight almost the first thunder storm of the season. I have seldom heard louder thunder or seen more brilliant lightning. Father Harvey arrived this morning from the West. 
Saturday June 5, 1858. Fine day. At 9.10 A.M. went to Albany by rail to purchase bannisters for the gallery of the Mineral Cabinet; found them at Headlam and Son's. Thence to Gray's, bookseller, and purchased a fountain pen (Prince's) on trial to be returned in one week if not liked. This pen is made of Gutta Percha and thus far answers my expectation. A former trial of White's fountain pen proved it a failure. 
Home at 12.10 P.M. On the way up, sat with Judge Paige and H. 
H. Martin Esq., cashier etc. The latter tells me the banking business is so dull this summer that he has taken to gardening as a pastime, thence to the study of botany he found very natural and necessary. He was so full of the subject that I was obliged to lecture upon the subject all the way to Schenectady Saw Dr. Nott this P.M. and among other things he spoke of the con-templated Graduates Hall and from what he said there seems no doubt that he clings to the absurd old pepper box plan of Remay. He says Ed. Potter, Blatchfords son-in.law, inclines to this plan. One thing is quite certain that, if the matter is left to a young New York architects apprentice, instead of $25,000 $75,000 will be needed and for a decent building for use we shall have a huge pantheon for show. 
Ssunday June 6, 1858. Showery, warm and "muggy." To Baptist Church where heard Mr. Day on baptism and communion. After service baptised three persons. Congregation large and attentive. P.M. 3 o'clock Communion of the [Last] Supper when a goodly number received the right hand of fellowship. Mr. Day has baptised nearly or quite 120 persons this winter and spring. Saw in churchDea[con]Joel Bailey of Utica, formerly of this place. For many years he was a partner of Peter I. Clute in the foundry business and a main supporter of the Baptist Church. He went hence about 15 yrs. since. 
Monday June 7, 1858. Hot --very hot. Saw Judge Paige this morning in re-lation to the investment of $500 in N.Y. Central R.R. Bonds -7 pr.cts. -for College. He approves of the purchase. He tells me that Gen. C.-the Bank Director in Schen. Bank who opposed his re-election so strenuously has with-drawn his opposition, finding that he can not carry his point and, making a virtue of the necessity, has concluded to "bury the hatchet" and become good friends again. 
Tuesday June 8, 1858. Cooler. Father and Mother Harvey went to Saratoga Springs to see Sarah and report her much better and decidedly on the gain. Went with Dr. Nott to see Mr. Gerrit W. Veeder in relation to the laying out of Liberty Street at or near his house. Mr. 
V. claims that the contemplated change of street takes a small gore of land belonging to him and that an equivalent should be given him on the west side of his house lot. Dr. Nott finally agreed that the triangular piece, having about 30 feet front upon Union Street and running to a point at the old Niskayuna Road, should be deeded to him, merely as a peace offering. School commissioners meeting this evening at Union School Building. Business of no especial importance. I hear that there was a strife in the Mohawk Bank election today at which three of the old Directors were left off, viz. the President James R. Craig, Abel Smith, and James Roy. It is said the defeated party aimed to displace the Cashier Switz and that the latter succeeded in unhorsing them. The charge made against the latter was that they used the Bank to favor political friends of the American or Know Nothing Party, but I have knowledge that the charge is well founded. 
Wednesday June 9, 1858. Rain again. All day writing dunning letters to students and their parents --an ungrateful task. Prof. Joy and wife have arrived from New York intending to sojourn for a time at Professor Newman's. 
Thursday June 10, 1858. Quite warm. 8 o'clock in the morning to the Union School to meet Dr. Backus and select such books belonging to the Library as need binding: thence with him to Mr. Browns, cabinet maker, to see the show cases he is making for the College cabinet of shells --part of the Wheatley Collection. Friday June 11, 1858. Rain all day. At 8 o'clock this morning to the Union School Library again to select books for the binder. Thence to Cady Smith's office to enquire about a mortgage; to Simon Grouts Store to enquire about balance due on Steam Mills property; to Rosa's coal yard to examine the coal on sale; and back to office. The financial year ofU.C. draws towards a close, which brings to mind the necessity of preparing for the Annual Report. 
Saturday June 12, 1858. Rain all day steadily. Call from Dr. Nott to come to his study, when he pr[o]fer[r]ed the singular request that I should procure the corner stone for the Graduates Halls to be laid at Commencement by the Alumni! What makes the oddity of the thing more striking is the fact that no plan for a building is yet fixed upon, that the circular plan is as likely as any to be the favorite, which has no corner, that no spot is yet fixed upon for the building except that it is to be between the present buildings, and that the quality form and size of the boulder has not been indicated by any architect or builder. This is perfectly charateristic of the Doctor in all his plans, or rather projects, for he never works by plans but by a series of most expensive and ruinous experiments. If he needed a locomotive (being a director of a R. Road), he would feel perfectly competent to build one at the first dash. He would commence by ordering twenty tons of iron in mass and steel and brass in proportion; he would then order a common blacksmith to make a wheel, a tinker to cast a bell, a tinman to make a boiler etcetc. and when all the parts were made he would endeavour to make the parts come together. Then would commence a series of alterations, and fittings that would cost as much as five locomotives ought to cost and end in a botched machine capable of doing no work. This may seem a distorted statement of facts, but it is true nevertheless. The Doctor has always had a hanckering after mechanical inventions, and has always been trying this and that experiment, attempting to improve upon some existing process; but of all his attempts nothing has proved successful except his coal stove, for a while, when no other more simple and effective existed. He spent $100,000 (so Jos. Horsfall, his Lieut., used to say) on the coal stove before he succeeded in making it work satisfactorily. The fact is the Dr. never was "cut out" for either a financier or inventor: he has not the elements of either in his character. He ought to have been a politician. He mistook his vocation when he became a minister or President of a college. 
Sunday June 13, 1858. Dull and lowering, cold. To Baptist Church and heard Rev. Mr. Day: after sermon he baptised 7 women and read the draught of a letter from the church to the Hudson River Association which meets in Albany this week on Tuesday and Wednesday. It appears that our numbers have increased during the year from 1 7 S to 312 members, a greater increase than ever was before known in the Church in any previous year. More than 120 have been baptised since New Years, the greater part quite young and inexperienced, the training of whom imposes a weighty task upon the church and pastor. Our morning congregation is more than doubled since the great awakening and most of those who now attend as well as the new members are strangers to us, hitherto. It would seem that the Revival continues in many places unabated, altho' with notice from the general public and less notoriety in newspapers. In college it seems to have quite passed by and the young men, altho' in general conducting [themselves?] with propriety, do not show that seriousness manifested during the last session. Students in this College as a general thing behave better and are less vicious than they were 2 5 years ago. Still there never was a time when more or less were not addicted to bad habits, especially to drinking. The temptations to this vice are now particularly attractive. 
There is a gilded grog shop on every car-ner and all law and decency seem set at defiance by the harpies who keep them. The temperance reform has evidently gone back. 
Monday June 14, 1858. Cool and cloudy. Saw Judge P., who desired a full and circumstantial report of the financial affairs of College, to be made and printed abd distributed to the Trustees before they meet. He looks upon the condition of College as desperate and unsound and wishes to arouse the Board to sense of our danger. It is quite doubtful if he succeeds in this; they seem quite satisfied to follow the lead of [Dr. N.] and to say yes to all he proposes. 
Tuesday June 15, 1858. Cool but no rain. In morning after opening Library, went with T.B. Brook, Prof. Gillespie's assistant in engineering to look at the lots about Empire or Prospect Hill, with the view of having a map made of the land. After recitation in Botany called by request upon Vph. to talk about the coming Commencement alumni meeting dinner, laying the corner stone of the Graduates Hall etcetc .. He approves of all but the laying the cornerstone, as being premature, and the dinner etc. as too expensive for college finances 
to bear. The proposed celebration would probably cost $500. Where to find so much money to waste upon such a banquet whilst money must be borrowed to pay salaries is more than I can tell. Wednesday June 16, 1858. Fine day. Every now and then a circumstance brings out our uncomfortable position in college prominently. The Presi-dent by constantly causing resolutions to be passed by the Board for the past SO yrs. has obtained unlimited power [over] all matters relating to College. He can find law for everything short of hanging faculty and students. No later ago than last Commencement he caused this power to be confirmed by a resolution making him General Supervisor of all College affairs~ In view of these things one would expect him to act with some decision and efficiency in all cases where the occasion requires it. On the contrary he does nothing, will take no responsibility save where he desires it and professes that he has nothing to do, no orders to give, it belongs to the Treasurer to do this or that, or the Finance Committee must be called together to decide the matter; and [in] such manner he shirks all responsibility. The consequence is that all things go along pretty much as they can; every man is his own Master and thinks or works as he pleases. It is uncomfortable for a man to refuse to give [up] his authority and yet will not use it where it is needed. 
Thursday June 17. 1858. Warm day all the forenoon with Mr. Reagles, the College Fanner, out measuring the College lots on State Street. Met Mr. Henry Ramsay who offered $3,000 for the Stark lot; McChesney also wants the triangular lot west of his land and lying along Terrace Road on the east side. Van Brunt has offered $50. for the strip lying on the west side of Ter-race Road and between his lot and said Road. It is much to the detriment of College that these parcels of land have not long ago been sold, as they might have been to good advantage to College. It has been the policy of the President to hang on to this property, till in the end it has eat itself out in interest, taxes and other expenses. 
Friday June 18, 1858. Warm day. Out most of the forenoon surveying land in front of College. Last night Jim Picket's barn was burnt at the corner of Union and Canal streets, supposed to be the work of a house-burner; after which some students for mischeif fired some half-dried hay upon the College Campus. As 4th. of July approaches the spirit of mischeif rises. Dr. N. called me into his Study at 12 m. to talk about the mischeif last evening, spoke also of his birthday on the 25th. on which occasion students have in former years showed an uproarious spirit; intimated that he should be glad to give them a bolt if they would petition for it, that there might be no excuse for noise and disorder in the evening. I said it was not difficult to bring that about if he desired it. Attended the funeral of Andrew Van Zandt, adopted son of the late Hiram Champion. 
Saturday June 19. 1858. Hot. At 9.10 started for West Troy to collect rents on leases belonging to College and, after running about a couple of hours in the broiling [sun] to hunt up the delinquents, got nothing but promises. 11.4 7 started for Albany by Northern R.R. 1st. bought draining tiles for college 2d. called three times at the office of John Paterson, sealer of measures for the state, without success. 3d to Tozoni's to see about repairs to the Nineveh Stores. 4th lunch. 5th to State Library where met Prof. Gillespie and at 3.45 P.M. started for home tired and hot. 
Sunday June 20, 1858. Hot day. Attended ch. at the Baptist Ch. Heard Rev. Mr. Smith of Hudson, who dined with me. 
Monday June 21, 1858. Weather d[itt]o. Fine shower this morning. Dr 
N. preached yesterday at Fort Edward and returned home this morning. The great money crash of last fall is felt still in almost all branches of business; its effects are most severe upon the poor laboring classes and mechanics, and unless a great change for the better takes place soon the next winter will bring more distress with it than the last did. My neighbor Mrs. Fisk went to Saratoga Springs this morning with her daughter Fanny who is out of health, low.spirited, and dyspeptic. Gave her a letter to Bedortha, the cold-water Doctor. 
Tuesday June 22, 1858. Fine day. All day writing dunning letters and at work upon my Treasurer's Report to Trustees for the year ending on the 30th. instant. It is no small puzzle to know what to say and what not to say about our finances. If much fault is found with the management of our money, it will be taken as personal by [Dr.N.] and great fault will be found with the Treas. On the other hand, if matters are hushed up and nothing said, the time may come when some of the Board may say that they have been kept in the dark and know nothing of the true state of affairs. If the whole truth is said, the Treas. will be charged with captiousness and faultfinding. His true duty, however, is to tell the whole truth kindly but fully. 
Wednesday June 23, 1858. Beautiful day. All day in office preparing facts for Treasury Report about which I have many misgivings because if too much light is given it will give offence and if too little it will react upon me in time. Then again the preparation for the Alumni Meeting on the 28th of July is altogether thrown upon a few of us thro' the unnecessary fear that something will be done in which he has not the supreme controul and management. Altha' not able to do anything himself, he cannot suffer any one else to move unless he tells him how and when to act. 
Thursday June 24, 1858. Very hot, especially at night. About town all forenoon on business: 1st to see H. Ramsay on the valuation of property belonging to College on or near State [Street] but did not find him at home. 2d. to S.S. Riggs, Printer, and to Swart the book.binder about the Catalogues of Coll. 3d. to D. M. Chadsey for interest on State bonds and mortgages, not in his office. 4th. to Mohawk Bk. to see if Dr. N. had made arrangements to meet the overdraft of Nott Trust Fund, nothing done; home again at 12 M. Quite wilted down with the heat. Conversation with Dr C.F.C. about the inventory of the chem. apparatus; he among other things alluded to Mrs.[Nott]'s interference with College matters and more especially with Professors and their families. He thought it unappropriate and improper. So others think. Talked with Prof. Whitney about the value of the mineral collection. He makes it as follows ; WheatleyCollection Minerals, 7,500; Shells 3,500; (11,000). Old minerals, I 500; new cases, 500. Total 13,000. 
Last night Prof. Foster valued his collection of Philosophical apparatus at $3,000 and Prof. Gillespie valued his Engineering apparatus at $1,500. He says also our Library is worth about $8,500. 
Friday June 25, 1858. Hot -very hot. Dr. Notts birthday, when he is 85 yrs of age, having been born on the 25 day of June 1773. It was a holy-day in College: no recitation or other exercises after morning prayers. Called on the Dr. and found him sitting in his study in his shirt sleaves looking sad and lonely. He seemed to me to be calculating his chances of seeing another such day and preparing for his exit. All day in the office at my ordinary works. The College cri[c]ket club played a match with the city club on the College Green. 
Saturday June 26, 1858. Weather ditto. Spent most of the forenoon in town on business. Mother Harvey returned today from Saratoga Springs whither she went yesterday to visit Sarah, who is mending finely and promises to recover in due time. Fine shower this evening which refreshes and cools the air. Catalogues of College are again printed and ready to be distributed. 
Sunday June 2 7, 185 8. Hot , piping hot. To Pres. Ch. in forenoon. Sermon by Dr. Backus and communion following, which detained the Congregation till 1 o'clock. At the latter service Ors. B, and Nott officiated. About a dozen persons united with the ch., among whom was Prof. Foster's new wife. 
]Monday June 28, 1858. Hotter yet --92 á to 95 á. Opened the Library from 9 to 11. a~m. Rec[itation] from 2 to 3 P.M. Mrs. Edmonds of Utica came tonight, on a visit to Mrs. Nott. Dr. C.F.C. called into the office, had a long talk on all matters relating to himself and College. He seems to be quite well versed in our peculiar ways of doing things and our methods of not doing things, our craft in seeming to do, but in reality not doing at all, and not meaning to do all the time. This trick is called "throwing dust in folks eyes." This sleight of hand can be as well seen here as at the conjurers; and what shows our skill, so soon as one humbug is worn out, we can get up another and gull folks outrageously. We always cover our recent feints with a varnish of truth so skillfully laid on that it looks as well as the solid article. Thus the public are gulled without knowing it. 
Tuesday June 29. 1858. The news of the day is a fight betw. Judge Jno. C. Wright and Judge Mitchell this morning at the city Post-Office. Canes were freely used and broken, a clinch followed and the blood flowed pretty freely and all this on account of a dirty political appointment. There are two appli-cants for the office of Postmaster: Luke Dodge the present incumbent and H.Nelson Walton, both "Democrats" of course, and both having their friends. Last week Mitchell went to Washington to further Walton's interests but when he came there found Rowl, Ex-member of Congress there working for Dodge's reappointment. He found moreover on file in the Post Office Depart-ment a letter from Judge Wright, endorsed by R[owl], saying that Walton two years since voted the Know Nothing ticket and was of course unworthy of an appointment by a Democratic Administration. Mitchell pronounced this a lie and came home full of wrath against the authors of it. This morning for the first time he met Judge W. in the private room of the P.O. and a warm discussion commenced which resulted in the lie being given and finally hard knocks and fisticuffs. The exhibition was a humiliating one for both parties and their friends. Both were to blame for allowing their passions to get the better of their reason and for resorting the arguments of the blackguard and shoulder-hitter. 
Miss Cynthia Sheldon came today. Mrs. Edmonds visited us today. This evening to a meeting of the Board of Education, passed bills and adjourned 
Wednesday June 30, 1858. Cool. Being the last day of our financial year, have been busy getting various matters closed for the year. Call from Dr. Backus about the glass ordered for the shell cases of the Wheatley Cabinet. Mr. W., who is now arranging the specimens, finds much fault with it as being too green and rough and desires to reject it altogether. On the other hand, it is pronounced an excellent article by those who know and such as is ordinarily used for this purpose. Moreover it is said and with truth that we cannot afford to reject this glass and pay for another better article. The truth is Mr. W. is an excessively particular man; his taste is so easily offended that it is difficult to please him. He has gone to Mr. Delavan's today to see about this matter. 
Mrs. Edmonds left this afternoon for home (Utica). Edward H Walton of this city died in N.Y. yesterday morning and was buried this evening. 'Tis said his death was caused by high living and dissipation. Altho' but 55 years of age he seemed an old man in gait and looks. The disreputable scuffle yesterday morning betw. Wright and Mitchell has made a great talk all about this region. Everyone is surprised and grieved at such folly in such old discreet men. 
Thursday July 1,1858. Busy posting accounts and getting ready to report on the state of the finances to the Trustees. This is the most difficult thing I have to do throughout the year. What to and what not to say; how to state facts so as not to give offence, and to conceal nothing material: this is the problem. {Dr. N.] is the only person whose feelings and wishes are to be consulted: all the other Trustees can bear the truth in large doses if only respectfully stated. He wants the Treasurer to say as little as possible and in as encouraging a style as he can state it. Five years ago when I first printed my brief statements for the Board, he was highly offended at it altho' the resolution was standing upon the Book of Minutes directing the Treasurer to cause fifty copies of his report to be printed yearly for their use. 
Friday July 2, 18158. The summer heat is getting excessive. All day busied upon my Report, which it is now my intention to make as explicit as possible on all points that need light. If [Dr. N.] takes offence at facts stated in a respectful language, I cannot help it and must abide his unreasonable wrath. Saturday July 3, 1858. Pop! Pop! continually as the 4th. of July approaches; gunpowder is all the rage and the patriotism of the multitude seems to spend itself in crackers and pistols. Within my remembrance the celebration of this day has very much passed from a rational and orderly festival to a boisterous rowdyish saturnalia, and decent men have in some measure become disgusted with it and refrain altogether from an observance of the anniversary. 
Sunday July 4, 1858. At the Baptist Ch. twice. In the afternoon at our usual monthly communion, about 20 persons received the right hand of fellowship. For many months these occasions have been highly gratifying and encouraging; no church of our order in this region has been so highly blest with accessions in numbers as this. 
Monday July 5, 1858. A noisy mob of students commenced their celebration of the 4th. last night about 12 o'clock by visiting the Professors' houses and many places in town and shouting and singing lustily. At day break the bells and cannon awoke the town and thro' the day the youngsters kept up the din with all sorts of noisy weapons. The evening closed with a torchlight procession of firemen accompanied with cheap fireworks. 
Thursday July 6, 1858. The financial results of the last year are beginning to appear. As usual the expenditure exceeds the income [by] $2,700.NSthe net capital is reduced to $10,000, which is merely nominal. The truth is that the college has for more than 30 years been living upon its capital; reducing it gradually until now there is scarcely enough to fill up the Trust Funds of the State. And yet none of the Trustees seemed to be aware of it. The yearly statements were made in such a blind way, whether ignorantly or intention-ally I know not, that it was impossible to tell how the college was drifting. Moreover current expenses were capitalized largely and thus the show of property was kept up. Nothing is more disastrous to a corporation than a set of accounts that show a false state [of] finances, and nothing is easier than to err here. 
Wednesday July 7, 1858. It is pretty generally feared that the contemplated Alumni Meeting at Commencement and corner-stone laying for the new Graduates Hall will turn out a farce. It is believed that the gentlemen in N.Y. who have taken the matter in hand have too much of their own business to attend to, to spend much on this enterprise; hence it is suspected that,, after the stone is laid (and) a few speeches [are] made, the thing will die out, or rest indefinitely. To lay a corner stone before any plan is fixed upon or any money raised, or even the exact spot determined and foundation wall laid seems a singular way of erecting an edifice to cost 25,000 to 30,000 dollars. This however is the way almost all things are done here .without plan without system, without forethought -without money, unless it can be borrowed. á 
Thursday July 8, 1858. Saw Dr. Backus and had some talk upon making out my Treasury Report. He is for humoring [Dr. N.] as much as possible and desires me to submit it in some form to him for inspection. To this I object because if this be done it gives him an opportunity to dictate what I shall say and what not say --a thing I will never allow. If the Treas. has not the right to speak to the Board nor even to write his views on points within his own office: it is high time he should vacate it and a mere clerk be appointed for to direct. 
Friday July 9, 1858. Very hot --the thermometer has ranged well up to 95 á in some parts of town. The alumni celebration is still talked of --a banquetis promised etcetc. , and yet there is nobody to do a thing, or prepare for the affair. Here in College are a dozen Professors, two of whom are upon the Executive Committee of the Alumni Association and yet no one moves. The fact is there is no faith in the proposed affair and if there were the Professors have been given to understand that they are nobodies --with no authority, no voice in college matters: hence they have come to position of letting thing slide and take their own way. There [the] matter will rest during the lifetime of [Dr. N.] 
Saturday July 10, 1858. The hottest day of the season probably. Had a call from Mr. Edw. L. Goddard and wife of Claremont N.H. They are no way related to us, only his wifes mother was a Pearsoff of Haverhill N.H. about whose family I have made some inquiries while making researches into the genealogy of the Pearson Tribe. Mr. G. is a manufacturer of school books; staid till 4 o'clock and went to Saratoga. 
Sunday July 11, 1858. Last night and this morning were exceedingly hot. About 11 o'clock A.M. a fine shower came up and cooled off the atmosphere. To Baptist Ch. with wife and boys. 
Monday July 12, 1858. Cloudy, cool and rainy. Opened Library to receive books preparatory to closing up the term. The closing up of this term is the winding up of a years business and the studies and accounts of a class. The latter always gives much labor and trouble with us because our students bills are so loosely kept and so little regarded by some young men. The Treasurer has no power over these obligations except what he can do by dunning, and as there are always many who care nothing for such a missile every class leaves college in heavy debt to it. So it will ever be so long as [Dr. N.] has supreme controul over these bills. 
Tuesday, July 13, 1858. As Commencement draws nigh the din of pre-paration is heard and especially at this anniversary because the Alumni Association has resolved to celebrate the first year of its existence by laying the corner stone of a Hall to be called the Graduates Hall. Among so many persons, however, there is great uncertainty whether everything will not go awry and nothing be done with proper order and efficiency. In fact nothing is done as yet. The "Banquet" is not prepared nor preparing; the Corne stone is in a quarry; the Music is unsung, and for ought I know the orators have not conned their pieces. Too many cooks etcetc. á 
Wednesday July 14, 1858. In my own department I find sufficiency of work to close up accounts, arrange vouchers, and prepare reports. 
My Financial Report, which is going thro' the press, will this year be extended to 30 or 40 pp. by reason of much additional matter and many remarks and suggestions. What is particularly needed by our Board is light and the nerve to follow the dictates of their mature judgements. Everything for years has been so befogged that the Board have not known how to act nor what they could afford in the the expenditure of money. For scores of years the college has been spending its capital until now it is reduced to a mere driblet of what it was and what it ought to be. Professor Gillespie] has suggested a most unpleasant piece of news which after all may be false -that [Dr. N.] has been for a couple of years preparing to bring his son J[ohn] back again to College. To pension such a man upon the poor old, bedridden institution next door to bankruptcy is a sad piece of assurance and selfishness. It may not be true altho' things look that way now. 
Thursday July 15, 1858. Delightful day. The news of the day are a great break in the Canal just above the City and a cricket match between Schenectady and Amsterdam in Glenville, Scotia. Nothing is more difficult than to superintend the repairs etc. about College. All are critics, nothing es-capes the eyes of the Faculty who are priveleged to find fault with every thing as a right and duty. I am now talking strongly of going east this vacation to the sea shore of Essex Co., Mass. with my wife for her health. Hope to start immediately after Commencement and be gone a month. 
Friday July 16, 1858. A day ever to be remembered in which we lost our dear boy Henry, our eldest and first-born child. He was brought home to night a corpse from [the] Mohawk in which he was drowned by the capsizing of a boat. The Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away, blessed be his holy name. 
Saturday, Ju.y 17, 1858. Our first great afflication has come: for 17 years we have sojourned together; children have been born to us; God has spared all and prospered us. Death has not entered to lessen our little flock. At last in his wise Providence He has called our home and filled our hearts with desolation. Shall He do us good and shall He not afflict? May we bow with submission to His will. The circumstances of our dear boy's death were peculiarly afflicting. He left his mother at 6 o'clock last evening, saying that he was going to take a row upon the river and after that to attend the preparatory lecture at the Dutch Church where some of his young companions were about to unite with the ch. With young Vanderveer and Beal, his constant companions, he proceeded up the river around the "Island" and down the "Binne Kill" to the lower rope-ferry just above the old Mohawk River bridge where, in endeavouring to pass under the rope, their boat was capsized and all thrown into the water. Two were saved: -but one was lost: he sank in 1 7 feet of water and was not recovered until half an hour after, when all efforts to resuscitate him were unavailing. 
Our dear boy was within a few days of 16 years old. Without being a brilliant youth, he had good natural talents, application, industry and success in his studies. To these he added a natural loveliness of disposition, gentleness, kindness to others, respect for his parents and regard for the feelings of his associates. All these things however would not console us for his loss without those higher and holier graces of the religion of Jesus Christ. During the past winter Henry had been a constant attendant upon the religious meetings and had taken an active part in such of them as were held by his young companions at Rev. Mr. Seeley's study. All who knew his feelings best and the purposes of his heart testify to a spiritual change in him, and it was his purpose if spared to offer himself for membership of the Pres. Ch. at the next communion. Such a consolation as this can alone console us for our loss. The sympathy of friends is valuable but rail is all that man can do if the love of God be wanting and the hopes inspired by the love of Christ. We feel confident that it is well with our dear boy and that our loss [is] his gain. 
Sunday July 18, 1858. Today we buried our dead out of our sight. He was laid out in our parlor where he lay as if sweetly sleeping. The services commenced at 4 1/2 o'clock P.M. by reading of selections from the Holy Scriptures by Rev. Mr. Day. Dr. Nott made a short address to the multitude assembled in the front yard and Dr. Backus closed with prayer. The corpse was then placed before the house and all passed by it, to take the last look. We carried him to our beautiful cemetery and laid him there beneath the funeral pines. Oh what a gap do we find in our little family. The light of our eyes, the pride of our hearts, the joy of our house --is gone. Nothing but the consolation of the Gospel and the hope we have of his blessed reception in another world can reconcile us to our loss. 
Monday July 19, 18)\. No event within my remembrance has so moved the city as the death of our son; such a multitude was never known to attend a funeral in the city as were assembled yesterday. All eyes were wet, all hearts ached for us, and mourned our poor his feelings best and the purposes of his heart testify to a spiritual change in him, and it was his purpose if spared to offer himself for membership of the Pres. Ch. at the next communion. S~ch a consolation as this c::an alone cons le us for our loss. The sympaithy of friends is valuablrbut rail is all th t man can do if the love of yod be wanting and the hopes inspired by the love of Christ. W,e feel confident that it is well with our de r boy and that our loss [is] his 
gain. / 
Sunday July 18. 1858. Today we burie~our dead out of our sight. He was laid o~lt in our parlor where he la~ as if sweetly sleeping. The services commenced at 4 1/2 o'clock P.~. by reading of selections from the Holy Scriptures by Rev. Mr. D~y. Dr. Nott made a short addresito the multitude assembled in the\front yard and Dr. Backus closed .with prayer. The corpse was then pl<\ced before the house and all passed by it, to take the last look. We carried him to our beaytiful cem¢tery and laid him there beneath the f~neral pines. Oh wµat a gap1do we find in our little family. The light o\ our eyes , the pr~tie of our hearts, the joy of our house --is g?f.-e, Nothing but the cohsolation of the Gospel and the hope we ave of his b*ssed 
1
r~:::~~~y~:~h::;:rl::a:~::::::i:s
:y0 :e::s.~as sobran 
oved the city as the death of our son; such a multi d as never
E

own to attend a funeral in the city as were assembled yesterday. 
' ' 
boy's death. Not less than 3,000 persons were present at the grave according to the best estimate. All this however is nothing to the more substantial and visible tokens of sympathy from our numerous friends and neighbors. Affliction tests one's friends, so we have found it. Henry's warmest and most attached friends were in the Union School where he was a favorite both with teachers anad pupils. They turned out in a body to attend his funeral and showed the tenderest in-terest in all that concerned his memory. May God in his mercy bless his death to the salvation of their young souls. 
Tuesday July 20, 1858. How does the world recede and eternity draw nigh when death enters our dwellings. All the vain things that please us most lose their interest and we cast our eye forward into the other world with intense desire. I hope our Henry's death will have this lasting effect. May we never forget to cherish his memory and his virtues. Dear boy! how he loved us and oh! how much we loved him we little knew ourselves until his loss showed it. All our his feelings best and the purposes of his heart testify to a spiritual change in him, and it was his purpose if spared to offer himself for membership of the Pres. Ch. at the next communion. Such a consolation as this can alone console us for our loss. The sympathy of friends is valuable but rail is all that man can do if the love of God be wanting and the hopes inspired by the love of Christ. We feel confident that it is well with our dear boy and that our loss [is] his gain. 
Sunday July 18. 1858. Today we buried our dead out of our sight. He was laid out in our parlor where he lay as if sweetly sleeping. The services commenced at 4 1/2 o'clock P.M. by reading of selections from the Holy Scriptures by Rev. Mr. Day. Dr. Nott made a short address to the multitude assembled in the front yard and Dr. Backus closed with prayer. The corpse was then placed before the house and all passed by it, to take the last look. We carried him to our beautiful cemetery and laid him there beneath the funeral pines. Oh what a gap do we find in our little family. The light of our eyes, the pride of our hearts, the joy of our house --is gone. Nothing but the consolation of the Gospel and the hope we have of his blessed reception in another world can reconcile us to our loss. 
Monday July 19, 1868. No event within my remembrance has so moved the city as the death of our son; such a multitude was never known to attend a funeral in the city as were assembled yesterday. All eyes were wet, all hearts ached for us, and mourned our poor boy's death. Not less than 3,000 persons were present at the grave according to the best estimate. á All this however is nothing to the more substantial and visible tokens of sympathy from our numerous friends and neighbors. Affliction tests one's friends, so we have found it. Henry's warmest and most attached friends were in the Union School where he was a favorite both with teachers anad pupils. They turned out in a body to attend his funeral and showed the tenderest in-terest in all that concerned his memory. May God in his mercy bless his death to the salvation of their young souls. 
Tuesday July 20, 1858. How does the world recede and eternity draw nigh when death enters our dwellings. All the vain things that please us most lose their interest and we cast our eye forward into the other world with intense desire. I hope our Henry's death will have this lasting effect. May we never forget to cherish his memory and his virtues. Dear boy! how he loved us and oh! how much we loved him we little knew ourselves until his loss showed it. All our for[mer] high estimate of his correct life and religious aspirations are abundantly confirmed by all who knew him intimately. It was the almost universal remark of every person who knew him that there were few boys of his age so estimable and so lovely. He had not an enemy in the world. 
Wednesday July 21, 1858. It is hard to go back to the world and commence the hard routines of everyday business. The world has a less lovely aspect, and the worth of earthly things has fallen very much out of my esteem; may it ever be so. Having finished printing my Treasury Report, gave a copy to day to Dr. Backus for his inspection. Also spent a short time in collection of subscriptions for the cases etc. of the Wheatley Cabinet. Out riding with wife, who bears with Christian resignation and fortitude our afflicting loss. 
Thursday July 22, 1858. Thunder shower last night, cool and pleasant this morning. About town much of the day collecting subscriptions for cases etc. for the Wheatley Cabinet. A long talk with Dr. Backus on my Financial Report to the Board of Trustees. He is a great peace-maker, hence whatever suggestions he makes in reference to this report has regard to its bearing upon [Dr. N.] His question always is how will [Dr. N.] take this. This being the case, the writing of a treasurer's report for Union College becomes the most perplexing document to concoct short of a diplomatic note. In reality [Dr. N.] desires the smallest possible apology of a Treasury Report given to the Trustees: the more light, the less satisfactory it is. A fair, clear, full report I must make to the Board; it is their due; it is my duty and privelege. I will have no dictation as to how much an what I shall say: if I deem a fact important for the Trustees to know, I cannot be hindered from saying because [Dr. N.] does not desire it. 
We continue to receive letters and calls of sympathy and condolence on account of the death of our dear boy. It is truly affecting to see how much all who knew him loved him. 
Friday July 23, 1858. Last night left a copy of my report with Dr. Nott for his inspection and this afternoon called to talk with him on the subject. Found him on the whole much more reconciled with it than I had expected. He suggested some alterations and additions but, altho differing from me in some of my suggestions, did so in a much milder way than I had expected. So left him thankful that it is so. 
The desolation of a bereaved heart who can know but those who have lost loved and dear ones! Every hour in the day I long for our dear boy, and am sick at heart that his face can no more be seen in the flesh. Moreover it is a sad fear with me that I may forget him and become indifferent to his worth and his loss. May God fill the aching void with his love! We continue to receive loving tokens of respect for Henry's memory and sympathy for our woes. 
Saturday July 24, 1858. Saw Vph. this morning and he announces 
that he shall resign his office at Commencement. The breach between 
him and [Dr. N.] has become so great and his position is so 
unpleasant that he cannot endure it longer. I have feared this for a 
long time and have said to others that he would not be our President. 
Pity 'tis so! The whole difficulty lies in the fact that these two men 
are too much alike in some respects: they are both self-willed and 
obstinate and think their own ways and opinions are the best. Then 
again they are as different as light and darkness. The one is cautious, 
cunning, secretive and canny: he other is open, frank, blunt and 
destitute of a particle of worldly wisdom. They can no more draw in 
the same harness than an ox and a horse. 
Called upon Dr. Backus to see if some arrangement were not 
practicable for reconciling these two persons, but derived little en.
couragement from him. He says he has talked with both and given all 
the hints that he thought it proper for him to give but without effect. 
Sunday July 25, 1858. Rev. Prof. Huntington of Cambridge, Mass: an orthodox Unitarian (?) preached in the Baptist Church. The sermon was an excellent practical discource on the cross of Christ. Several strict Presbyterians pronounced it quite orthodox. Tonight he addresses the Theological Society at the second Dutch Church. There has been some feeling manifested relative to this man. Last year he failed to get here by reason of detention on the Rail Road; it was understood, however, that had he come he would not have been permitted to preach in the Pres. Church. The young men resolved to invite him again this year, and asked permission to use the á Presbyterian but were denied on account of Mr. Huntington's being a 
Unitarian. 
Monday July 26, 1858. The bustle and hurry of Commencement week has now begun. Old faces long forgotten on College Hill begin to appear to renew their recollections of its almost forgotten features. All is hurry and confusion to finish up the preparations for the Alumni Meeting and for Commencement Day. The Wheatley Cabinet, the great feature of this anniversary, is arranged and ready for the public. The bit of wall and corner-stone for Graduates Hall are ready; the collation is bespoken; the Band is rehearsing for the occasion; the Chapel is cleared of seats and the tables are arranged. But after all what is all this toil and commotion to accomplish? It may be needful to keep up the interest in our College, of graduates and the public, but I do not see that it is the one thing needful. Real progress in literature and science, facilities for education, increase of productive funds. Books and apparatus --these things make a college popular and useful and not clap-trap and noise. I have less heart than ever in these things since my dear Henry is gone and can no more enjoy life with us. 
Tuesday July 27, 1858. More of the same hurry and excitement today, only more intense. More old faces, more friendly recognitions, hearty shakes of the hand and condolence for my heavy loss and affliction. At 10 the trustees met in the Nat. Hist. Hall and adjourned after the appointment of committees. Mr. James Brown, one of the Auditing Committee, commenced examining my vouchers. At two was called upon by a committee of the Trustees: Dr. nott, Judge Paige, Mr. Bradford R. Wood and James Brown to explain some points in my printed report and, after talking more than an hour, the Trustees commenced the afternoon session. Theodore Parker speaks 
tonight and all the city have gone to hear him. 
Wednesday July 28, 1858. This is "graduates day," --the first meeting of the "Alumni Association." The preparations were cheifly made by the N.Y. City graduates, who bear the entire expense of the affair. The number present is greater than was anticipated, being near or quite 300, mostly young or middle-aged men. The exercises at the church were a long --very long-.address by Dr. Tappen of Mich. Univ., a poem by Street, of Albany,read by L'Amoreux, and a speech by Shaw of Senior Class. About two P.M. the procession marched up to the college campus preceded by Johnny Cook's brass band and laid the corner-stone for the new "Graduates Hall" after which they adjourned to the Chapel to a collation. Here speeches asnd eating were kept up till near 6 o'clock. About $2,000 were subscribed for the Hall which added to the former subscription makes $6,000. This is good so far as it goesá but really seems small considering the amount needed. $25,000 is talked of but the plans now exhibited will surely require nearer $50,000 if I am not mistaken. Busied all day in the office in various ways --tired and sick at night. All this bustle and noise seem vain and trivial to me. It may be necessary but I cannot but think there is a better way to accomplish a desirable end. Much feeling is expressed by Trustees aand others in relation to Theo. Parkers speech last night and the fact that 3 of our speakers have been in some way objectionable either as to orthodoxy or morals. 
Thursday July 29, 1858. The sky promised rain in the morning and a little fell thro'out the day until 5 o'clock. The weather was temperate and nothing occurred to mar the Commencement exercises. In the Treasury Office all day until past 6 o'clock-P.M. I am told that the crowd at the Presbyterian Church was uncommonly large. The jam was frightful, and the girls and boys uncommonly noisy and silly. I have seldom felt more fatigued : the past 4 or 5 days labor and excitement have been excessive and too hard upon brain and body to last. My heart has not been in this work: my bereavement is every hour brought to mind by some familiar object with which our dear Henry is connected. Oh how much we leaned upon his helpful arm! how much we looked for from him. He was to be the stay of our declining years, our helper and friend! The void is fearful and hard to be realised! 
Friday July 30, 1858. Rain most of the day. Sister Mary Ann Magoun came up today. This is clearing-up day. The odds and ends of business are made up. The tools and apparatus are stored away for another year. The doors are closed and preparations are made for cleaning [and] whitewashing. Made out checks for salaries. Attempted to collect subscriptions for cases for Wheatley Cabinet. Saw Dr. Backus and Dr. Nott in relation [to] Prof. Whitney's further services in arranging the Wheatley Cabinet, and got answer that it depended entirely upon the funds. Found the amount about as follows: Subscriptions $1,100; cases, say 550. Herman's wages 100. Whitney's pay 450. $1,100 on hand for more work. Saw classmate Cornl. Van Santvoord who is to preach for the 1st. Dutch Church on Sunday. 
Saturday July 31, 1858. One of the most trying annoyances of an office like like our Treasurer's Office is the thoughtless interrruptions of visitors who make it a place of call and conversations. They are often such persons as it is not possible to send away without offence. Thus my working hours are often frittered away to a mere point; and all for the gratification of a love of gossip. Am now closing up pressing business with all speed possible preparatory to leaving with wife for a month's vacation beyond Boston on the sea coast. 
Sunday August 1, 1858. Attended Bapt. Ch. Rev. Mr. Day preached and bap-tised a young man by the name of Reynolds. Towards evening visited Henry's grave in the Vale Cemetery. How hard to realise that our darling boy is no more to see us on earth! that we shall no more greet him with a smile, no more hear his voice. However much we may be reconciled to our Heavenly Father's bereavement, nature will cry out at times in spite of reason and grace. 
Monday August 2, 1858. Hurrying to and fro all day getting ready for to-morrows journey. All sorts of businesses are pressing, all sorts of trans-actions are to be anticipated. Bills to pay, books to post, messages to leave for one and another, so that I am all but crazed. Then for one who has not packed a trunk for many years it is a formidable task to select articles for a month's absence from home. Everything is needed, the whole house and furniture, for all these by long habit have become necessary to our comfort. 
Tuesday August 3, 1858. At noon the rain began to fall in torrent[s] from the east! So our journey is postponed indefinitely. The Wheatley Cabinet subscription list and bills give me much trouble. Raised enough to pay off Mr. J. D. Whitney, the arranger of the collection ($450.). Borrowed money also at the Schen. Bank [for] Dr. Nott, to enable him to pay Prof. Stanton's salary of the Union School. 
[NOTE: Written diagonally across the remainder of the page:] 
The account of our jaunt to the East until Sept. 7 will be found in a small leather-bound volume.] 
Tuesday Sept. 7, 185 8. We have finally returned to our home after a months vacation, the first we have taken for many years. I cannot see that there ls more comfort abroad than at home; still of the benefit of a change once in a while there can be no question. I look upon the genealogical facts obtained with much satisfaction; the mere pleasure [of] hunting gives me none; my only regret is that we could not have spent more time among the old records and places of Essex Co. One month is not too much for one to take in Salem alone. Many thing[s] I learned,, and saw much more, that I desired to examine but time forbade. 
Wednesday September 8, 1858. College is now about to open again; it is too early to predict surely what will be our success. Many anticipate a small entrance of new students, basing their opinion upon the hardness of the times and the increase of new colleges around us. In this latter respect I think we have not much to fear. An old established institution has advantages over all others which it is difficult to overcome. Its numerous alumni alone, if well affected, ought to be a continual source of patronage and support. 
Some think that the Troy University will draw many away from us; here again I think they are mistaken; if that***** starts at all, it will be only to hold a á lingering existence. In the end the building and grounds will probably fall into the possession of the Rens[s]elaer Institute. 
Thursday September 9, 1858. Went with wife over to Glenville to call on Mr. & Mrs P. Riley Toll who have so lately lost a promising son of about the same age as our dear Henry. In this bereavement we were able to sympathy with them fully. Our new Tutor[s] are Messrs Deremer and Millard -the lat[t]er, brqther of our last Tutor of the same name. New students are coming in rapidly and from present appearances the number will not differ much from last year. Our dormitories are so forbidding that it requires much pressure to keep students in them. All who are able choose a private lodging. [do so?]. This will always be the case until we make our rooms habitable for human beings. It is not likely that so rough quarters can be found in any college in the country. It will be impossible to make any changes for the present; they are pronounced good enough by [Dr. N.] and that ends it. 
Friday Septemberl0, 1858. Mr. Gilbert and myself have spent 8 hours to-day receiving new students "and still they come." Already nearly 100 have entered. One of our most troublesome affairs to get along with is the recep-tion of "Irregulars" or "University" students who enter without examination and study where they please. Many thus enter with the expectation of "making up" back studies and deficiencies and thus enter some class in "full standing" at a future time. This method of entering college, and their fitting for college when in, is fruitful of much superficial learning and shallow scholarship~ About 1/ 4 of our new students are "University" men and probably another quarter enter the regular classes "conditioned" -.that is, promising to review their studies and be examined at some future time. Probably, indeed I know, we have improved in these respects within 20 years: and there is abundant room for more
improvement. 
Saturday September 11, 1858. Tonight, the second day of the session, we number 101 new entrances; last year, when we had an uncommonly large number, we had 101 not till the 6th day of the session. Dr. L[ewis] is much annoyed at so many entering college "conditioned", and "conditioned" so much; he would sooner have 200 good well-prepared students than 300. like our present set. 
Sunday September 12, 1858. At Baptist Ch. in forenoon and heard Mr. Day discourse upon practical duties of church members, particularly towards each other. The attendance was good, and the influence of last winter's reformaation is still felt among our Churches. It is said in many places to be more interesting now than 6 months since. .
Monday September 13, 1858. Met the Juniors for the first today -.find about 75 present who take Conics, in two "Divisions. For a mathematical recitation this is too many; 20 would be a more profitable number, both for teacher and taught but, shortpressed. 
the College is short handed and so will remain until some permanent change takes place in affairs. The fact is that the Academical Department of College has been able any time these 40 years to sustain itself handsomely if it were permitted to use its own funds upon itself alone. This however has never been done The department has had to carry its own burthen not only but some additional load, besides. The Trustees now never meet but what they are importuned to give here or give there, to spend on this or that without reference to the wants of the College proper --I mean the academical or undergraduate department of the same. In this very year at the last meeting of the Board $20,000 were voted away to not one quarter of which he [Dr. N.?] had the least shadow of claim to, only he is poor and therefore must have all he asks for. 
Tuesday September14, 1858. This is the fifth day of the term, and the number already entered is about 109. The cheif subject of conversation among the faculty is the great size of our several divisions of the Classes. It seems very undesirable that they should be too large for faithful and profitable teaching. In some studies numbers do not obstruct progress, but in mathematics in particular it is quite necessary that the class be so small that every student shall recite each recitation. Henry S. Anable, agent and clerk for Crane and Ely at Hunter's Point has been visiting his aunt, Mrs. Nott, several days. Among other things of business, he passed over to me as Treas. of Nott Trust Fund the amount of bonds and mortgages lately apportioned to College. They amount to nearly 25,000 dolls. His account of business there is not encouraging for the present. We have been just upon the eve of receiving a great addition to our funds for 40 years. It is just so now, but the good time has been so often postposed by the utter recklessness of [Dr. N.] in his wild speculations that hope deferred has made us suspicious of all promises of Un. Coll. immediate or near good. 
Wednesday September15, 1858. It is not probable that U. Coll. will realise much from the Nott Trust Fund so-called these many years. The sales of late is slow; the estate is in debt. The expenses are necessarily heavy -and [Dr. N.] is continually wanting money ever faster than interest accrues and he is apt to treat his gifts (?) as the Indian did --to take them back. It is a fact not to be disguised that the financial affairs of college have been most miserably managed and that the los[s]es and lavish, improvident expenditures have been enough to ruin her half a dozen times over but for the good hand of Providence. 
Thursday September 16, 1858. Rain all day and last night, till this evening when it cleared up with a west wind. The comet in the North East has been dimly visible from 7 to 8 o'clock in the evening, also in the morning. Tonight 114 have entered College and some others are known to be at hand. This large entrance give us encouragement to hope for a continued partronage from [the] public. Friday September 17, 1858. Fine cool day. The routine of college duties have now begun. Things move on ordinarily as smoothly as do the wheels and parts of a machine, and the idea of management and discipline residing in this man or that set of men to whom all the prosperity of the institution is attributable is ridiculous. So far as management is concerned, a little common sense is all that is needed: no peculiarity will compensate for this. 
Saturday Septemberl8, 1858. Called on Judge P. in reference to buying certain bonds and mortgages which Dr. N. desires to sell to college, amounting to $1,225. These are a portion of the lot made over to him by or-der of the Board of Trustees last July in payment of certain payment made by him on Hunter Point Property. In law and justice he had no claim upon the N[ott] Trust Fund but, as he is now considered poor, the Bd. concluded to assent to his demand as a sort of gift. Judge P. assented to the purchase of the bonds altho' judging from past transaction[s] with [Dr. N.] there is every reason to fear that some loss may accrue to the College. Six barns and sheds were burned last night, the work of some rogue of mischeivous tendencies. Dr. Nott goes to Albany to preach tomorrow in N. Pearl St. Bapt. Ch. Rev. Jno. Nott called this evening. He has been absent now 5 years in N. Carolina; he is preaching at Goldsboro. 
Sunday September 19, 1858. A perfect day. Attended church in morning with wife at second Dutch, corner of Liberty [and] Jay Streets. Heard a Mr. Deane preach on the duty of men to render to God the best of all they possess. A good practical discourse; congregation thin. This is a new and feeble church as to numbers and wealth. The Rev. Mr. Duryea, the first pastor, after great effort obtained a neat little Chapel costing about $14,000, but by his great labors and anxieties very much enfeebled his health so that he was obliged to resign his charge of the church. Mr. Dean, I am told, has been invited to become their pastor, by a majority of the Church but 
[a] respectable minority for some reason object. It is not known what may be the result, altho it is hoped that harmony may be restored. Dr Nott preaches today for the No. Pearl St. Baptist Church, Albany, their former pastor, Dr. Hague, having lately left them for a congregation in New York. A Mr. Dodge from Brooklyn preached in Bapt. Ch. this evening. 
Monday September 20, 1858. Lovely day and evening. Prof. J. D. Whitney of North-ampton, Mass., geologist etc. together [with] Mr. Herrmann, mineralogist, commence today to finish the arrangement of the shells etc. in the Wheatley Cabinet. Mr. W. is a mining geologist etc. and has been employed in various state and other surveys at the west, the last of which has been the state of Iowa. He and Hall of Albany are now publishing their report of that state. Mr. Herrmann is a mineralogist from Germany who for some years back has bought and sold minerals in the City of New York from whence he has lately moved with his family. He is a poor old fellow and finds it hard to stem the tide of American hurry and excitement. Gerrit Smith, the Abolition Candidate for Governor of the state speaks tonight in the city. Mr. E.C. Delavan accompanies him and gives him his countenance. Whatever may be his intention, the practical effect of this movement will be to draw off votes enough from the Republican ticket to elect the Democratic Governor. The American nominations tend also to the same end. 
Tuesday September 21, 1858. A hot day --more Julyish than like 
September weather. The Dudley Observatory contest is still going on between The Trustees and the Director and Scientific Council. For the cause of science in this country, it is a very unfortunate one. People have much less confidence now in the infallibility of great names and it is admitted that the magnates of Science are just as likely to err as common mortals. The Trustees have issued their answer to the Statement of the Council and placed their cause on much higher ground than it occupied lately in public estimation. It seems likely now that the Director, Dr. Gould, must retire from his position in disgrace, a fate he might have avoided by the use of a little common sense and wisdom. 
Wednesday September 22, 1858. A sudden change in the weather, as cold today as it was hot yesterday, and likely to produce a frost tonight. The Wheatley is now undergoing still farther arrangement under the direction of Prof. Whitney and Mr. Herrman. It gives me much additional trouble and takes many hours of my time. Visitors are continually calling: they must be shown the Collection as a matter of course and no one has time to do it but the Treasurer. Prof. Silas Totten D.D. of William and Mary College called to-day for the purpose of seeing our collections. He was formerly tutor here and taught me my first lessons in Geometry in spring of 1832. He went from hence to Trinity College,, Conn. and after wards to Wm. and Mary Coll., Va. 
Thursday September 23, 1858. Cool. The Atlantic Cable celebration in this country and the newspaper laudations are entirely overdone and render our people ridiculous. Every person engaged on laying the wire, from Captains of the ships to the coalheavers, is praised to the skies and set down as one of the benefactors of his race. The question is raised in all parts, "Who invented the Atlantic telegraph?" and more than two dozen claimants have arisen to claim the honor. It seems quite impossible to quiet and satisfy their zealous friends, and the credit of this feat will possibly remain undecided like the birthplace of Homes. The American people seem to grow more excitable than the French. It is a pity that the solid old English character of our early population should fritter away by foreign admixture intothe frivolousness of the Celt. 
Mrs. Cynthia Sheldon came today on a short visit to her sister, Mrs. Nott. Sarah Harvey, wife's half-sister, came today from Saratoga Springs where she has been since April. 
Friday September 24, 1858. Dull, cold and unpleasant. Call from Rev. Mr Duryea, late 2d Dutch Minister in the city. He has been appointed collecting agent for the Alumni Association to get subscriptions for the proposed Alumni Hall. This is almost the first step in the right direction the Assoc. has taken to get the money. Mr. 
D. has had good success hitherto in like enterprises and much is anticipated from his energy and perseverance. 
Saturday September 25, 1858. The frosts of autumn have come, the foliage is changing, the leaves begin to fall. The indications of departing summer are manifest on all sides._On college Hill a large party of students spent a good part of the day at cricket, with a number of players from the up-river towns. In the afternoon visited the "Vale cemetery" with wife. Oh! how vividly does the lone grave of our dear boy bring to mind his loss! Scarce an hour of the day passes that his dear image does not come up before me as he was while in health and bouyancy of spirits. God give us grace to bear this and any other affliction he may see fit to send upon us. Sister Magoun and husband and Edward came up today to make a visit. 
Sunday September 26, 1858. Fine day. At home all day with wife, who is indisposed. Calls from Mss. Cynthia Sheldon and Mrs. Nott, her sister, who urges wife to go on to Philadelphia to visit the Sheldons and Anables. 
Monday September 27, 1858. Fine day. The comet is getting to be a fine subject of wonderment and conversation. It is seen now in the 
N.W. about 7 to 8 o'clock very plainly. The tail is quite bright and a little curved. Library days are Mond. and Tues. 8.45 to 9.45 A.M. The Wheatley Collection also is shown on Wednesdays and Saturdays, 2 to 4 P.M. Finance Committee had a meeting today to consider the contract proposed to be made by U.C. and others with Long Island R. Road for sale of certain lots at Hunter Point. The object of this sale is to get a new termination for that R.R., a ferry privelege and ample room for depots. The Com[mittee] ordered the Treas. to sign the contract. Miss Sheldon (Cynthia) left this P.M. for Philadelphia. Bro..in-law Magoun, Sister and Edwd. left this morning for Hudson. 
Tuesday September 28, 1858. Fine day. One of the annoyances of College is a noisy chapel. This usually occurs at evening prayers and is sure to grow unless checked at the outset. Mischeivous boys always take advantage of good nature and poor eyesight. Our contrivances to keep quietness and order have been mostly mechanical: this is a peculiarity [of] Dr. N. His discipline is in great measure of the same kind. To keep order in chapel he would have 
I them so placed that every man's feet shall be seen -an impossibility in an ordinary-sized room with a large number of young men. To prevent improper associations he builds the students dormatories with only one room for each pair, without closet or bedroom, so that nothing may be hidden and no body concealed. And so on with other contrivances. At his age with bad sight and impaired vigor it cannot but happen that boys will take advantage of his infirmaties. 
Wednesday September 29, 1858. Fine warm day with wind south and prospect of rain tonight._One of the saddest losses of life that has occurred for a long time has just been announced in the newspapers. The "Austria," an iron steamship was burned when near this coast and more than 500 souls were lost, only 67 being saved. 
It seems almost certain that such passenger ships can be safe only by being made thoroughly fire-proof as well water-proof. Iron should be the almost exclusive material. Until such precautions are used, I should prefer a sailing vessel. 
Thursday September 30, 1858. Beautiful still misty day like our Indian summer. Last night Madam Schoppe, an aged German lady, died in the city. Some years since she came to this country with a son who has been employed as an engineer upon the Erie Canal. At first they resided in this city, afterwards in Albany where he was employed. Failing of employment there, they removed to Schen. this summer and opened a thread and needle store to eke out a subsistence till better times. The old lady has some reputation as a writer in her own language and has published some books. Her age is nearly 80. Mrs. Berry (Jane Dorland, neice of Bishop Potter) of Saratoga Springs called this evening. She is an old mate of wife's while teaching in Miss Sheldon's (now Mrs. Nott) School at Utica. 
Friday October 1, 1858. Rain all day from N. East. At 4.30 P.M. attended funeral of Madam Schoppe in the Presbyterian church. About 2 doz. friends were present. Services by Rev. Drs. Backus and Nott. Death is sad even among friends but to die away from one's native land and among strangers is lonely indeed. This old lady had but one son with her, all her other friends are in Germany. 
Saratoga Springs Saturday October 2,1858. Clear and fine. With wife started at 11 o'clock A.M. for Saratoga Springs where she proposes to spend a few weeks for the benefit of her health. Arrived at 1 o'clock. Dr. S. S. Strong, at whose house we stop, is a Methodist clergyman whose own ill health turned his attention to medicine. Having graduated D.M. in New York, he established a private hospital in Saratoga Springs for consumptive and other patients. He has been here about 4 yrs. It was at his house that wife's sister spent 6 months and was wonderfully restored. His practice is somewhat eclectic. The gaudy colors of autumn are beginning to show themselves: and it is really wonderful to see the magical combinations of colors and tints now displayed by our forrests. 
Sunday October 3, 1858. Lovely day. In the morning attended the Methodist Ch. where saw several Unmethodistical things, as the organ, the reading of fl sermon etc. The minister is a Mr. Robinson, a young man and graduate of U.C.:; his style is rather ambitious and flowery, indeed anything but what one is accustomed to hear in a Methodist Ch. This village looks like a grand house the morning after a great party. In every corner are the evidences of show and parade, reminding one of departed crowds of pleasure hunters. Without any 
material advantages, is rather a pretty improvement.  save the wonderful mineral springs, this village place: showing evidences of wealth and  
Union College  

Monday October 4, 1858. Left S.S. at 8.40 and got home 9.45 in time for my 1st recitation at 10 o'clock. This afternoon Sister Magoun came up and went on to S.S. to spend a week or two with wife. Dr. N. is much annoyed, as I have said before, by the unruly conduct of certain students in Chapel at night. He has proposed several remedies (of a mechanical nature) but as a temporary expedient he proposes to cover the floor with cocoa matting to prevent noise from their feet. Tuesday October 5, 1858. Fine day. The comet is now getting to [be] a brilliant star with a tail fifty feet long! Library day, but few borrowers. The number of new students thus far this session has been 124. Saw Dr. Nott on coal stoves; he has found one better than his own as he ackowledges --the Rail Road stove of Littlefield, Albany. It is made, he says, on his own principle of burning the coal at the bottom but does its work better than his own ever did. He proposes to buy one for the College to try. It is high time something was substituted for his own. It has too much machinery, too complicated, too many pieces, too apt to get out of order and then it takes an adept to right it again. 
Wednesday October 6, 1858. Fine day. Dr. N. and Mrs. N. were called sud-denly to go down to Howard's to see Elipht., his grandson, who fell from an apple tree and as it is reported lies at the point of death. So we pass away --the young before the old mostly. Every day admonishes one of his latter end and the uncertainty as well as the shortness of life. 
Dr. H[ickok] has written a book called "Rational Cosmology" in which certain scientific laws are treated in [a] rather novel manner, as some of our Professors think. It is said that some of his arguments directly contradict certain well known and established laws. It is to be hoped that these assertions are false and so able a writer would not rashly impugn the results of Science and Mathematics. 
Thursday October 7, 1858. Rain from the south most of the day. Elipht. Nott Junr., who fell from a tree, is not so much hurt as was at first reported. All day in office. Our house was made desolate by the loss of our dear boy: but the absence of his mother also give[s] double desolation to it. 
Saratoga Springs Friday October 8, 1858. Fine day. Started from home for S.S. to visit wife at 5.15 P.M. On the R.R. met with Miss M.A. Kelly of Utica who is on her way to visit her bro.-in-law Rev. Mr. Tully of Ballston Spa. Arrived at B. at 6 o'clock and walked with Miss K[elly] up to Mr. T[ully]'s where took tea and back again in time for the train to S. Springs where arrived at 7.30and found wife and sister Marianne well. I cannot say that I like a private hospital for a boarding house altho' this one of Dr. Strong's is made as comfortable as the case will 
allow. Still we see often enough in ordinary the evidences of our ills and aches.  intercourse  with men  
Saratoga Springs Saturday October  9, 1858.  As fine  a day  as  one  can  wish. The  

routine of this hospital is much after this form: Rise at 6. A.M., dress and walk (some to the mineral springs) till 7. when breakfast. Prayers. 9 to 10 gymnastic exercises in a large room with balls, ropes, tenpins etc. 11. baths, walking (to springs) and dinner at 1 o'clock; in afternoon, walking, bathing, riding etc. till 6 when tea, prayers, and to bed at 9 o'clock. Bro. Magoun came up tonight at 7 .30. 
Sunday Octoberl0, 1858. Beautiful day. All day at home (S. Springs) with wife who was indisposed. The "Green Ridge" Cemetery is a pretty little burying ground which has been laid at about 14 years. There is much good taste displayed in laying out the plot, altho' there is too little variety in it. Saratoga Spgs. is nothing but a sandy plain for the most part, and this cemetery is partly on a wooded ridge elevated a [few?] feet above the plain and partly upon the level of the plain itself. The mineral springs are all situated in a gully evidently made at the junction of the Hudson River slates and the limestone, which at the N. end of the Village are plainly seen and quarried. 
Monday October 11, 1858. Fine day. Came down at 8.45 and arrived in S[chenectady] at 9.45. Dr. & Mrs. N[ott] got on the train at the Branch, having been on a visit at Mr. Delavan's. The result of this visit turns out thus: Mr. D., when giving in trust the Wheatley Cabinet, reserved verbally a small set of duplicates for himself, but as these were not selected before he made his deed, which cuts off all gifts, it was thought by some that legally the selection could not be made afterwards. The person who gave this opinion was Judge P[aige] whose integrity and strict contruction of all legal documents has made him more respected and more feared than any other member of the Board of Trustees. But if this small cabinet could not be taken [as a] a gift, it might have been purchased by College for Mr. 
D. and replaced as soon as convenient. Someone, however, probably has informed Mr. D. of the state of the case. He is of course offended, but especially so with Judge P., and [in] consequence of this the influence of Judge P. upon Mr. D. will be less than before and ----11--.-'s influence proportionally increased. This whole business has been most clumsily managed --not for the interests of the College but as it would seem for the purpose of some private interests. 
Tuesday October 12, 1858. Dull day without rain. Not a little excitement has been created by a fracas at a circus last Saturday night, between some students and townboys, in which it is pretty evident that the former were at first to blame. A young student by the name of Spencer was intoxicated and noisy; in putting him out, a fight sprang up betw[een] the students and bystanders, during which stones and brick-bats were pretty freely thrown. Campbell, Gillette, G. J. Clarke and others were struck and pretty badly cut with these missiles. On Sunday night there were some indications of another fight, but the courage of neither party was sufficient to bring them together. It is probable that the war is now ended unless some small straggling party may be met with and attacked from behind or from some safe ambuscade. 
Wednesday October 13, 1858. Rain --Rain! all day, not cold. Vph. called in today and among other things spoke of a letter he had just received from his nephew, Prof. S., of Amherst Coll. The latter spoke of a conversation he had had with a Prof. of Yale College in respect to 
II I t . . t . onn. H ----" came. C
--------s grea m1n1ng en erpnse 1n e says ----to New Haven and saw "young" Ben Silliman, whom he persuaded that, if he would raise $60,000 and take the superintendance of the mine, he would need nothing more --his fortune would be made. Accordingly S[illiman] called upon all his friends and relatives (some unable to lose a dollar in the enterprise) to subscribe to the project. The end of it was a total loss. His friends now heartily blame an aged man and clergyman for over-persuading Silliman into the speculation. 
Thursday October 14, 1858. Lovely day. This afternoon at 3 o'clock attended the funeral of G. Y. Vandebogart's wife, a young woman of 27 who died of inflammation of [the] brain. She was a lovely character and much respected. In walking thro' the cemetery, our own loss came upon me with crushing effect. There lay our dear boy sleeping beneath the tall pines where h~ had so often wandered with me in my botanical excursions. Oh! how inexorable are the decrees of Death! The tall, the great, the lovely, all must alike bow to that law passed upon all men, "to dust thou shalt return." Saw Judge P[aige] this evening; he does not much like the manner in which ----"---.has managed to incense Delavan on account of the duplicate specimens from the Wheatley Collection. 
Saratoga Spgs. Friday October 15, 1858. Fine day. After a days labor of various kinds, started at 4.20 P. M. for S. Springs and went thro' in an hour without delay. Found wife and sister well as usual. 
Saturday October 16,1858. As fine a day as can be. The record of the day would be quite uninteresting. The cheif employment is drinking spring water and walking. This commences at 6 o'clock A. M. To one not too sick for drinking, this spring water is a marvellous remedy, and to the well it is a singular promoter of appetite. 
Sunday October 17, 1858. At home all day with wife, who did not attend church. 
Union College Monday October 18, 1858. A perfect day, Indian summerish. Started at 8.40 from "the Springs," [with] wife for Scherr. and sister for Troy and Hudson. Parted with the latter at Ballston. Arrived at home at 
9.45 in time for my morning recitation. Another comet is visible now in the southwest. Saw it last evening at Saratoga Springs. 
Tuesday October 19, 1858. Warm and smoky --Indian Summer. There is much talk about a fight to come off tomorrow somewhere in Canada betw. two notorious bruisers named Morissey and Heenan. It is sad to see such brutal sports patronized by multitudes of men calling themselves human. 
Wednesday October 20, 1858. Beautiful day. Politics rage about 
these times. The number of patriotic individuals willing to serve 
their country in any capacity is very great --and the number of 
parties is so multiplied that the most fastidious elector can find a 
candidate to his [liking?]. .
Thursday October 21, 1858. Fine day with prospects of rain. In 
College, matters progress satisfactorily with the exception of a little 
disposition to mischeif, which is exhibited cheifly in stopping up the 
key holes of the recitation rooms. So long as there is nothing worse, 
we may be thankful. So long as great bodies of youths are huddled 
together into barracks, so long rowdyism, rudeness and mischeif will 
be rife. Students should in all cases be distributed among private 
families in a town so as to break up that clannish feeling so apt to be 
engendered by proximity. 
Friday October 22, 1858. Cloudy, wind south but no rain. 
Saturday October 23, 1858. Gradual change from warm to cold. This 
P. M. rode out with wife, returned at 6. 
Sunday October 24, 185 8. Rain in the morning. To Baptist Church and heard a sermon from Pastor Rev. Mr. Day. A thin congregation. á In evening read fine little book called "Agnes and the Key," showing the reflections and consequences originating from the death of young 
child. 
Monday October 25, 1858. Fine cool clear day. Called on Dr. N., found him suffering from a cold. In conversation he remarked that none of [us] think we are going to die! If such is the sentiment of an old man of 86, what must be that of one of 45? 
Tuesday October 26, 1858. Fine clear day, a severe frost last night. 
We have little talk now save about politics which are in a very tangled state by reason of the numerous parties and sections. Of Democrats there are rival and angry factions, Softs and Hards. Republicans: Americans and some Gerrit Smith abolitionists. Among all these, who will gain the day? 
Wednesday October 27, 1858. There is not the least partic.le of news stirring. Politics causes the only ripple upon the face of society. A dirty trade it is and lowers the character of whomsoever heartily engages in it 
Thursday October 28, 1858. As Thanksgiving Day approaches, it is evident that the uneasy feeling in College increases. For many years the session has closed before that day, but in these cases it has been appointed on the last Thursday of the month and therefore not much before the ordinary close of the session. This year our Gov[ernor] places it upon the 18th, more than two weeks before the end of our term. To send the young men home at that time would be a disgrace and injustice not to be thought of. Nevertheless there are those who are so thoughtless and inconsiderate as to expect such a thing and get abundantly uneasy and discontented if they are not allowed the usual liberty. 
Friday October 29, 1858. There is much boyishness in College but hitherto it has shown itself in nothing but harmless tricks. Stopping up the recitation key holes is the commonest recreation for this set of boys, and so long as they do not go farther there is nothing to complain of. Much ingenuity and time is lost in this amusement which, after all, seldom succeeds in preventing a recitation. 
Saturday October 30, 185 8. The election next Tuesday is getting to be the absorbing topic of conversation. It is pretty well admitted now that, if it had been held one month since, the Democrats would have carried the state, but every day now adds to the strength of their 
opponents  -. the  Republicans.  Pennsylvania  has  strengthed  the  
opposition  and  damped  the  courage  of  the  friends  of  the  
Administration.  
Sunday October 31, 185 8. To Baptist Ch. and heard Mr. Day.  

Monday November 1, 1858. We are getting to be as excitable a people as the Frenchmen. Celebrations and speech-making, feteing and dinnering are our forte. But of all things our gift of "gab" and love of the abomination supersedes all others. It is a wonder that the New York Aldermen do not celebrate the appearance of the late comet and invite the illustrious stranger to eat a woodcock supper with champaign and toasts at the H[otel] Nicholas. 
Tuesday November 2, 1858. The election has passed off with little noise, drunkenness or riot. I am told that much money is used by both parties to buy votes. The price however is not excessive: the market seems to be glutted with an indifferent article. Universal sufferage with universal ignorance is a universal evil nearly. 
Wednesday November 3, 1858. The Republicans claim to have elected their Gov. Morgan by about 20,000 majority, and probably they have [in?] that all the Congressmen out of New York City are anti-administration and a large majority of the Senate and Assembly of the State. To say truth, so long as the Democratic Party and Administration knuckle and cuddle to the South on the subject of slavery, so long will they be beaten at the North. 
Thursday November 4, 1858, The bitterest pill that the Administration has been forced to take for these many months is the election of a Douglas House of Reps. in Illinois where a fierce battle has been fought for these two months. He is more cordially hated than even the Black Republicans. 
Friday November 5, 1858. This session in College has been an uneasy one altho' without any outbreak or malicious show of mischeif. We have an uncommonly large number and, coming from schools for the first time to college, they feel bound to show off and be smart and noisy. The latest disturbance is a frolic which a half dozen students had at Ostranders a few evenings since by which he feels ag[g]r[le]ved and scandalised. Nothing will do but the offenders must leave his house; if not he threatens to prosecute the ring.leader. 
Saturday November 6, 1858. The season is a wonder to all weatherwise folks --so mild, warm and unseasonable. Thus far no frost of consequence, no ice &c. 
Sunday November 7, 1858. To Baptist Ch. and heard Mr. Day. 
Monday November 8, 1858. Ostrander, who keeps the great boarding house opposite my house, has got his liver into [a] complete muss. He sued the noisy, riotous Collins last week for a breach of peace. This has given mortal offence to all C's friends, who swear vengeance against the poor man. He on the other hand, having been insulted and badgered beyond endurance, has got his Dutch phlegm broken and vows he will "put them thro' if it costs his all." 
Tuesday November 9, 1858. I would'nt keep a students' boarding house for all the gold in the mint. They are rude, supercilious, overbearing, boorish, ungrateful and what not. Use them well and they take it as their due; they will cheat you out of your bill, disfigure your house --what wont many of them do? Deliver me from keeping boarders! On the other hand, there are many who are gentler men and oftenest those with the roughest outside. 
Wednesday November 10, 1858. Saw Senator Seward the other day at Dr. Nott's. He told me the origin of his anti-slavery feelings. It happened on this wise. Whilst in College or a member of it, he taught 6 mos. in Georgia and learned something of slavery and its effects. He returned just as one of those little college wars was raging betw. the Southern students and some of the Northern. The former withdrew from society associations with the Adel[phi] and Phil[omathean] societies and formed one of their own, the Delphic Institute. He sided 
with  the Northerners,  was elected  Junior  Orator  by them  in oppo. 
sition  to the southern  influence  &c&c.  Ever sinc e  he has  been  an  
anti-slavery  man.  

Thursday November 11, 1858. Most of Ostrander's boarders have left his house. He called to see me last night, now laments his precipitation in commencing suit against one of his boarders, sees that by that he arrayed college feeling against him, now fears his business is ruined. 
Friday November 12, 1858. The weather just now begins to feel "fallish," the ice last night made nearly 1 inch thick. Last night Mrs. Douglas Cruger and bro. arrived at Dr. N's. Today they have looked about the ground. "The Dr." hopes to get a farther sum from them towards finishing his new House. Maybe he will succeed. 
This P. M. the Finance Committee meet to determine upon a keeper for the Wheatley Collection; probably a Mr. Her[r]man[n],, an old German mineralogist may be selected at a small salary. Mr. Whitney, the mining geologist, has now closed his labors upon the cabinet for the present. 
Saturday November 13, 1858. Some snow and sleet. Mr. Delavan's Trust Deed to Union College of the Wheatley Collection gives the appointment of the Curator to the President. As Mr. Whitney, who has spent some months in arranging it, is about to leave, it becomes necessary for someone to take charge of the keys. Yesterday it was agreed that Mr. Herrmann should act as subkeeper to do the work but not to have authority either to sell or exchange minerals. I have tried several times today to find out to whom the President would give the supreme authority and responsibility but have thus far failed of getting any definite answer. His usual noncommittal manner was unusually strong and finally he thought he would give the keys 
into Mr. Gilberts hands and make him the nominal keeper whilst Mr. Herrmann does the work. So characteristic of all our doings!! The man best qualified to take the responsibility of such a charge, Dr. Chandler, is passed by and the person who knows nothing of minerals is made Keeper of the Keys. In this way all the authority is kept in one mans hands. 
Sunday November 14, 1858. To the B~ptist Church in the morning with wife and heard Rev. Mr. Groom of Ballston Spa. He is a graduate of U. C. and a man of more than ordinary capacity. His sermon was on the doctrine of resurrection, a very plain and clear exposition of the Scripture teachings upon that subject. 
Monday November 15, 1858. The ground was white [with] snow this morning and the weather clear and cold. Tonight commenced our usual examinations for deficiencies by reason of absence from College or otherwise, and a poor farce they are --hardly worthy of the name of an examination. No one is interested in them and from the President [down] does as little as possible in them. 
Tuesday November 16, 1858. Windy and cold, nearly Christmas weather. As Thanksgiving approaches, the students drop off rapidly, that festival being the ostensible cause of their leaving --the true cause laziness and dislike to study. My neighbor Ostrander, boarding.house keeper, having by his want of tact displeased all his boarders and lost most of them, now advertises his house for sale and threatens to leave the city in disgust. The disgust I can well appreciate. No business so annoying, so ill paid, so unthankful. Having expended more than $10,000 in a house and furniture, he will not easily get a purchaser; he will never see his money back again. 
Wednesday November 17, 1858. Very windy but not cold. Prof. G[illespie] and myself called upon Dr. Nott this evening. Among other things Prof. G. asked him why he did not publish his lectures on Karnes' Elem. of Criticism. He answered that he had nothing but loose memoranda of his lectures and in fact had nothing on any subject fit to publish except 7 sermons on the resurrection of Christ, which sometime would be published. He stated also that he had never had time to write anything of any consequence for the press, that his time and thoughts had been always taken up with other matters, with the perplexities and harrassm~nts of College and its finances &c. Ed. Magoun came up tonight to spend Thanksgiving. 
Thursday November 18, 1858. Mild day. With wife to Baptist Ch. at 10 a.m. where Union services were held. Rev. Mr. Dean of the 2nd Dutch Ch. preached. At 12 o'clock last night heard a party of students pulling down the college fence near my house, hailed them and they fled. This morning various recitation rooms and chapel windows were broken. It often happens that on a holiday evening the spirit of mischeif is rife. Most of the stores were closed and business suspended. 
Friday November 19, 1858. Windy but not very cold. No snow here. I am told, however, that there is good sleighing north of us. No recitations thro' the day; for this Vph says ----"----is responsible, that he gave Prof. N[ewman] and Tutor M[illard] permission to be absent over the Sabbath and did not discountenance the inclination to "bolting." 
Saturday November 20, 1858. Fine day. Prof. L[ewis] dropped into Treas. Office and among other things spoke of Dr. Hickok's book on "Rational Cosmology." He says that the review of it in the New Englander is quite favorable, but that some of our own Professors are inclined to criticise it severely on account of some mathematical errors which they profess to have discovered. He does not approve the inclination thus shown to find fault with one of our own number on slight grounds, thinks this fault-finding disposition is wrong and undignified. 
Sunday November 21, 1858. Wife taken last night with a severe nervous fever accompanied with great excitement, which has continued unabated thro' the day. Just one year ago to an hour she had a similar attack, only less violent perhaps. These sicknesses and other afflictions are but the chastenings of a good Father for the trial of our faith and the purifying of our hearts from the dross of sin. May God grant us a right use of all our mercies as well as of our trials ... 
Monday November 22, 1858. Eight inches of snow fell during the night. , Wife is somewhat better today but far from well. Have been by her side day and night. It is a sad thing to see a dear friend suffer, when all means are without use in allaying pain. 
Tuesday November 23, 1858. Wife much better, the excitement over but weariness and exhaustion very great. For 3 nights have not had my clothes off. The worst, I hope, is past. We have reason to bless God for this early alleviation of her pain and fever. 
Wednesday November 24, 1858. Wife slept. 6 hours last night and 12 hours the night and day before. Have not been out of the house since Saturday. 
Thursday November 25, 1858. Wife still mending. Prof. Gillespie is kind enough to hear my classes in Conics. The snow still remains, and it really seems as tho' winter had commenced in earnest. Sleighs are used, no wheel vehicles. 
Friday November 26, 1858. In the house all day, hope to go out tomorrow. Whilst sitting beside the sick bed, I have busied myself in arranging my genealogical facts collected last August, and among other things sent the first three generations of Jno. Pearson of Rowley, 1643, and of Jno. P. of Lynn, 1637, to James Savage LL.D. of Boston for his Genealogical Dictionary now about to be published. Made out also the pedigree of Isaac Green Pearson Esqr.of New York, a descendant of the late[?] Jno. Pearson. 
Saturday November 27, 1858. Went to the "Hill" twice today. Found all things going on as usual. Arrangements for examinations (?) have been made. -the whole College to be done in two days!! Monday and Tuesday next. It cannot be otherwise than that ----"----should show signs of age in his mental failings as well as in his bodily weaknesses. Of late he has busied himself much in what he considers a remarkably unsound state of feeling in College, a state bordering on open rebellion to authority and good order; but by his exellent good management he thinks the volcano[e] has been kept from busting out and spoiling all our orderly arrangements. Such ideas are harmless as well as natural. By magnifying the danger, his tact is also increased in the estimation of others. My own opinion of College discipline, 
morals and manners is none of the most favorable. I do not think 
them worth boasting of. 
Sunday November 28, 1858. At home all day with wife, who is doing well. 
Monday November 29, 1858. Fine day, a little more snow last night. Sleighing good. Opened Library this morning. In office most of the day. Examinations so-called began this morning. Prof G[illesp[ie] says ----"----was cross as a bear last Friday evening at Faculty Meeting. 
Tuesday November 30, 1858. Pretty good sleighing and good winter weather. Called to Abel Smith [about?] a bill. He took occasion to speak of a bill that -:----"----owes him for work done on his house. Says it is a wonder that he should keep up his connection with that scamp Bryson who has cajoled him to the tune of $3000 or more and is still picking away more. He says, what is quite true, that ----" ---.has been entirely overrated in regard to his mechanical ingenuity, that he has not a particle and has gained great credit for wisdom by holding his tongue and working secretly. He says also that ----"----'s financial abilities are equally over estimated. All true 
This evening at a meeting of the Library Committee of Board of Education met at Dr Backus' study. Present: James Walker, Dr. B., Mr. Marlett, Clerk of Bd., and self. Conversed upon a great variety of topics, among which the mss. catalogues lately made, the purchase of Benton's Abridgement of Debates, new rules for the school and the practice of certain teachers of peddling stationery to the children. 
Wednesday December 1, 1858. Students mostly away before night. Long talk with Prof C[handler] on the expenditures of the Laboratory, now much above the income. This was not contemplated by the Board but, as they have plunged into this expensive luxury, it is not easy to see how they can get out of it. This has been managed much as ----"----manages everything: push ahead without premeditation and then wriggle out as you may when trouble comes. The Trustees were hauled into this expense by being entirely deceived in regard to the cost of a laboratory and as to the means [of] meeting the current expense when once the Laboratory was furnished. 
Thursday December 2, 1858. Some signs of snow. College is closed and all is quiet upon the "Hill" --a good time for work, free from interruptions. 
Friday December 3, 1858. Some rain, snow thawing rapidly. The sewing machine is now a fixed fact. All manufacturers use them and many private families, Stepping into Young and Graham's bookstore this evening, I saw there a $10 machine for sale. This is supposed to be too cheap for a good instrument, yet the work done by this seemed quite good. The $100 machines of a year past are now sold for $50. 
Saturday December 4, 1858. The weather is in no way cheerful. The "Hill" is forsaken and lonely, there is little to think about and less to write about. 
Sunday December 5, 1858. Stormy all day. Rain, which freezes so soon as it toutches the earth. At home all day. 
Monday December 6, 1858. Clear but warm. Father left this morning at 8 for N. 0. [?] Dr. and Mrs. N[ott] left at 9 for N. Y. Vph. dropped in to the T[reas.] Office in the course of the forenoon and told me of what his nephew Prof S. had heard about the B__ Copper Mine speculation in Conn. The account came from Prof S., the mineralogist, and is as follows: Many years ago I (Prof S.) examined the rock at B__ and discovered, in an old working, traces of copper. I communicated the fact to a friend and advised him to purchase the property but in no case to expend more than $250 in blasting &c., as a trial of the mine. He afterwards sold out to a New Jersey man for $2,000. The N. J. man sold out to a New York man (Bradford probably) for $9,000. The N. Y: man went to England and sold one half of the mine for $45,000 but, after sending over a practical miner and examining it, the English owner refused to expend any more money upon it unless B. would consent to work it in accordance with his (the English owners) views. It was at this point that ----"---.came into the concern and after expending $400,000 upon it and getting back $200,000, dismissed B.,-or rather got rid of him the best way he could. The mine was then worked a few years by his agent Sheldon, Mrs. [Nott]'s nephew. Finally ----"----met young B[en] S[illman] at New Haven and told him if he would raise $60,000 he should take charge of the mine. B. S. canvassed the town (of N[ew] H[aven]) for the money. Some took $1,000 worth of the stock, some took more. All his friends were appealed to and in the mean-time -.--"----went to N[ew] H[aven] and preached. The people wondered that so old a man could have such vigor and power as to speak so well at his age; they concluded that so good and wise a man must know what was in the mine, and the stock was taken at once. At the end of two years the whole concern burst up: all was spent and heavy debts were incurred which never will be paid. "Now," says the mineralogist S., "----"----must have known from his long experience of that mine that it was good for nothing and that the money that B[en] S[illman] was raising would all be lost. It was horrible," says he, "to see that old man act in such a manner." 
Tuesday December 7, 1858. Considerable interest is felt in the N. Y. City election (today) for city officers. The fight seems to be between the dirty politicians and the well-disposed people, who are contending for honest rule and honest finances. With the sad, corrupt population of that Sodom it will be [a] wonder if the rascals do not carry the day. Meeting of Board of Education this evening. 
Wednesday December 8, 1858. At the meeting of the Board of Education last evening we did the usual amount of talking and not much more. 1st we voted that the "Colored School" might have one session the day from 9 to 2 during tp.e winter. This is kept by a young Mr. Quackenbush. There are about SO children in the city, of whom 25 to 28 attend constantly on an average. 2d. Voted also that in cases of storm and bad weather Mr. Superintendent Clark should have discretionary power to have one session the day especially with the small scholars. 3. There came up a long discussion about the teachers selling stationery to scholars; this was forbidden. 4. Certain teachers have resigned and Mr. Superintendent Clarke is authorized to procure others, &c. 
Thursday December 9, 1858. Good winter weather, good sleighing, cold and windy. On Wednesday finished my report of 40 pp. to the Regents of the University. This formality seems useless labor; year after year the same facts are reported and the same ponderous volume of reports is printed by this august fogy old body. They have the power of great good but really they do next to nothing. 
Friday December 10, 1858. Have been several days examining title &c. for the purpose of loaning $2000. to J. R. C[raig] for N. Y. State Fund. Bonds and mortgages are called the best security in existence. Perhaps they be, but yet they are difficult to perfect to ones satisfaction. So many flaws exist in titles, so many claims hold against a mans r[eal] estate that it is never certain that your security may [not] melt away when you feel most secure. 
No more perplexing matter exists in household affairs than the lighting our house. Gas seems the perfection of light, yet some do not like it. I have never tried it in my house. Oil is dear and therefore bad. The camphene class of fluids are disagreeable and dangerous. Within the year, however, we thought we had secured an excellent substitute for oil in Kerosene, and indeed it is a beautiful article, yet 
no sooner did its use seem destined to become common than the price went up from 80 cts. to 1.25 in N. Y. and from 1.00 to 1.50 here. and the adulteration began at the same time so that now not a particle of pure Kerosene can be bought anywhere, the stuff sold for it being nearly all that vile stinking rosin oil, the refuse from camphene distillation. 
Saturday December 11, 1858. Moderate weather, good sleighing and enough to improve it. Today perfected the business of loaning to J. R. Craig two thousand dolls. out of the N. Y. State Fund. He has had a long and intimate acquaintance with ----"----in business matters and therefore knows his ways and little tricks. C[raig] says he never was fit for a manager of money matters because he was so rash; he wanted to make a dash always and venture all he had at a clap. Moreover, he says, he was never fortunate in his agents but trusted 
implicitly  to  them  without  knowing  how  their  business  was  
conducted.  
This is not  the opinion,  however,  of----"----.  He thinks  his  

crowning glory is his financial success; the next, his knowledge of human nature; and lastly, his discipline of young men in College. All good men, no matter how good, how great, have a weak spot: here is ----"----'s. He was no financier, he was no mechanician, he had no uncommon knowledge of human nature nor extraordinary success in the discipline of students; and I judge of the facts by his success and failure in these various points. He never was successful in making money or saving it. The lotteries made him, Yates, McIntyre and others rich thro' the excellent shrewd management of Y and M. ----"----deserves no credit whatever in this case. Had he taken the 
á active, direct oversight of the Lotteries, he would have ruined them and himself in one year. But he says, "I kept them on their feet when embarrased and so contributed to the ultimate success of the lotteries." No such a thing. The President and Treas of U. C. borrowed the money, pledging the Coll. property as security, which was of such a nature that if the Pres. and Treas. had been men of straw, the money would have come. 
Sunday December 12, 1858. To Baptist Church. Rev. Mr. Day preached, and then out with wife for the air. The religious signs in many places are much the same this winter as last: meetings are frequent and well attended. 
Monday December 13, 1858. At 9.35 started for Hudson with wife to visit Bro. Magoun. At home there were signs of a storm; at Albany it drizzled; at Hudson it rained. From A[lbany] to H[udson] the river was filled with ice well-fastened, and looked much as if it had been ploughed and harrowed as indeed it had been by the steamboats struggling thro' their last trips. The only open [area?] was at A[lbany] where the railroad ferry boats ply day and night. Railroad travelling is far from being what it should be: in summer the dust is a deadly annoyance and in winter foul air, and that cast-iron monster the stove. Arrived at Hudson at 12 o'clock, all well. 
Hudson Tuesday December 14, 1858. Drizzle and rain all day, with fog and mud. In the house all day and for the want of better employment took up Mad[am] D'arblay's Journal and Letters (Fanny Burney). Such a gossip! if possible she out-does Sam. Pepys, that old granny, who was not above criticising his wife's petticoats. Several things are observable in this book. 1st. Miss Fannie thinks well of herself and does not forget to inform us that she was the author of "Evelina" and "Cecilia." 2d. the worship [of] aristocratic and royal flunkeys in every shape and place --this is not pleasing. 3d. in spite of the defects, a certain sprightliness and life that makes one read on through the same account of parties, dinners, visits and calls a hundred times repeated. 
Wednesday December 15, 1858. Weather same. Read on in Madam D'ar-blay's book. One chapter is much the same as another. 
Thursday December 16, 1858. Fair beautiful day. Wife and I out for the first time. Walk twice to the "Hill,"--as public walk, on the river above the landing. Found the ice broken up and moving slowly down. Tonight stepped into the "Star" office to see what is called the "Hill Air Light." This is made by passing air over a light hydrocarbon which at ordinary temperatures gives off a vapour readily inflam[m]able. There is really nothing new about the invention except a certain hocus-pocus process of mixing and redistilling certain products of bituminous coal, which does no good, only to throw an air of mystery over the subject. The light is good. It is probable, however, that it will explode one of these days and ruin the projector. 
Friday December 17, 1858. Cold & squally. At 12.40 started for 
home in company of wife and Miss Louisa Fonda of our city. At home 
3.30 P. M. Called on Dr. and Mrs. N[ott] --found the former! lying on his sofa stiff with a cold and old age. He is a wonderfully tough old man, tenacious of life. 
Saturday December 18, 1858. Cold day and prospect of coldest night of the season. Of local news the latest is the growl set up in regard to our city taxes --being 1. 93 pr. ct., something more than they were last year. The inquiry at once is, "What makes them so high?" and as the most prominent object is our great City Free School the cry is, "Down with the school. It is too costly!" &c. Our school taxes are .40 pr.ct. or, if we had no school, our total tax would be 1.53 pr.ct. To come to the true state of the case, [it] is: shall we have a good school or a bad one? If the former, then it must be paid for. As it is now, the cost of a childs schooling for the year is about $10.00, of which $ 7. 5 O is raised by tax. 
Sunday Decemberl9, 1858. With wife attended the Baptist Ch. and heard Mr. Day preach an hour upon Faith. The day being cold, but few were out. The house cold and uncomfortable. The rest of the day at home. Read Neal's History of the Puritans. It reads well, but is it true? All history I look upon as fiction in part and therefore to be read with much allowance. I wish I knew if Neal is to be trusted and how much. High Ch. Episcopalians, of course, would say, Nay! Low ch. Presbyterians and Congregationalists would say Yea! My feelings are with the Puritans and I am disposed to trust the author for most of his facts. If the half be true, every King and Queen of Great Britain, from Henry VIII to James II, ought to have been hung 40 times by the neck for their crimes against civil and religious liberty, for their broken promises and outraged [outrageous?] laws. 
Monday December 20, 1858. Time is a healer of the wounded spirit, yet there some wounds which are never healed, which break out afresh and trouble the afflicted heart. I do not say that ours are of this kind. Since the loss of our dear boy, more than six months have passed and I find but little abatement of that yearning and longing for his dear face. Another 6 mos may do more in tempering this affliction and making it more tolerable. A sudden death is particularly awful --it gives no time for preparation, no time for adieus and parting with friends. Is not also the death of a young person more bitter than the loss of an old friend because the latter 
we know must die. 
Tuesday December 21, 1858. Five or six [inches] of snow this morning and rain in the afternoon. At two P. M. attended a meeting of the Board of Education at Union School Building for the purpose of appointing a committee to make a financial report to be printed for the use of the citizens. This is cheifly called for now because of the growling of dissatisfied ones in reference to the cost of our Union School. 
Wednesday December 22, 1858. Windy and growing cold. The snow is fastened by the rain yesterday, sleighing good. This is the season of "Donation Visits" and "Surprize Parties." The first are made upon the minister at his house by appointment, when it is expected that all his friends will leave some substantial token of regard in money or articles of domestic use. The "surprize party" is the same thing only made without the knowledge of the Pastor by his friends, who usually call in the evening, ask leave to set out his dining table, load it with good things and leave. 
In a sense these are gratifying marks of regard. Viewed in another light, they are humiliating because they convey the idea that the pastor is in want and, as his salary is not enough to supply them, his friends must contrive to do so by gifts and contrive to publish to the world their liberality, their pastor's need. This method of eking out a ministers living is a settled thing now in many if not most of our country churches. Like "Church Fairs," "Donation Visits" should cease and, if a gift is to be given, let it be done in secret and not openly --as the Scripture directs. 
Thursday December 23, 1858. Cold winter day. Good sleighing. On College Hill there is a perfect stagnation ofá business and life. Even the Professors are not seen once a week but are burrowed like bears hibernating. I ought to [ex]cept this morning, however, for our usually unruffled surface of affairs was agitated today with the arrival of a newcomer among us. This happened in Prof. Peissner's family: a young daughter was born to him, his second. 
A young mining engineer is among us this winter. His name is Freeman and [he] hails from Salem, Mass. He studied in Fri burg and other German schools with young Prof. Chandler and has come here to spend his winter. A few students embrace the opportunity of studying mineralogy with him. All day in Library assorting pamphlets. They are a troublesome part of it and can only be useful by classifying properly. 
Friday December 24, 1858. Cold, clear, and as good sleighing as ever was; no drifts and but 6 in. of snow, everywhere evenly laid. Dr. N. has been so much annoyed by disorderly conduct in chapel that he has ordered the floor to be "matted" with cocoa matting to prevent the shuffling and stamping of feet. This will stop the noise in part perhaps, but not altogether. Where there is a disposition to disorder, they will find a way for it. His age and dim-sightedness are the cheif causes of this evil and these cannot be cured. The very things in a man that one would suppose would command respect have just the contrary tendency in churlish, uncultivated natures. Twenty years ago these rude spirits dared not show such conduct in his presence, neither do they now with Dr. Hickok. 
Saturday December 25, 1858. Cold day. These two days assorting pamphlets in the Library with John and Willie, finished tonight. How much even in this work am I reminded of our dear Henry who, if now living, would have (as he has often done before) been my handy assistant! May Heaven help us to bear patiently this great sad loss! Vain is earthly help! á 
Sunday December 26, 1858. At home all day with wife, who is not well. A bitter cold day: the coldest of the season. Read Neal's Hist. of the Puritans. This story of the Reformation, Revolution and Restoration is the romance of English History. The seventeenth century saw greater progress in England than all the preceding or fallowing centuries. 
Monday December 27, 1858. An utter change in the temperature, thawing all day. At office alone. Mr. Gilbert has gone to Albany. We propose to go to Utica tomorrow to visit Mrs. and Mr. Edmonds. 
Utica Tuesday December 28, 1858. Fine pleasant winter day. Started at 8 o'clock A M. for Utica to visit Mr. and Mrs John H. Edmonds. He is an honest lawyer. She is a French lady who for many [years] taught her native language in Mrs. Sheldon's (now Mrs. Nott) school in Utica where my wife also taught. Hence the intimacy and friendship betw. them. Her family consists of a young son and daughter besides her maiden sister and aged father. Their house is on Chancellor Square, corner of Bleecker and First(?) Streets. This train carries the mail and stops at every post office, hence is slow and fussy. Arrived in Utica at 12 o'clock nearly. 
Wednesday December 29, 1858. Blow! blow! without cessation from the east: a wind that cuts like a razor. In morning walked up Genessee St. with Mrs. E. and wife to see the 11court end 11 of town. Here are some pretty and some ugly attempts at house-building, such as we find everywhere. It reminds me of my boyish ideal of a pretty house carried out in white pine in1837, viz. a copy of the Parthenon, a Grecian temple with fluted columns &c. Called upon Miss Kelly at the old Female Seminary where I found and married my wife. This is now kept by Miss Jane Kelly, assisted by her sister Elizabeth. 
Thursday December 30, 1858. The wind is stronger than yesterday. Notwithstanding, we all went to Miss Kelly's to dinner. Miss Mary Ann alone is at home, the other two sisters being in New York. There is another married sister, Mrs. Tully of Ballston. After a pleasant two hours chat left. Utica as well as other inland towns shows signs of dull times. Saw Doct. Theodore Pomeroy, uncle of our Prof. Jackson's 
wife, also James Watson Williams, a former yrs. ago I was accustomed to visit Utica.  acquaintance  when  18  
Home Friday December 31, 1858. arrived at 4.45 P.M.  At 2 o'clock  started  for home  and  

Saturday January 1, 1859. New Year's Day opened pleasant. The practice of calling upon friends and acquaintances is falling into disuse except among the ragged children who make it a point to call at every door and beg a store of new years cakes. I made none and received none. According to custom, those who have lost dear friends within the year decline all such festivities. At the Treasurers office all day closing the business of the past 6 mos. preparatory to making my half yearly report to the Trustees. 
Sunday January 2, 1859. A beautiful day. Started with wife for church but returned on account of her indisposition. 
Monday January 3, 1859. With wife started for Troy at 9.35 to leave my usual notices for the College tenants at West Troy. After finishing my business, rode with wife to Lansingburgh to call upon Mrs. James Clarke, an old school friend of hers (Miss Sarah Betts). Lunched and returned to Troy. Took Rail at 2.30 P.M. and reached home at 3.30. The day has been cold and bitter without much wind. 
Tuesday January 4, 1859. This evening attended a meeting of Com.missioners of Education at Dr. Backus' study for discussion of business. There is much talk in town about the school tax. Those who have much property and no children decry the school as a heavy burthen and are striving to cut down expenses. 
Wednesday January 5, 1859. All day upon the great ledger trying to balance accounts for a report. Dry but necessary business, unsatisfactory because whatever the results the Trustees pay no regard to consequences. Not even half a dozen men pay the least regard to the interests of Coll. and the rest vote yes or no as they are told by ----"----. 
Thursday January 6, 1859. Fine day. A few straggling students drop in today. My opposite neighbor Ostrander keeps a boarding house built a year and half ago at a cost of more than $10,000. On New Years Day he sold the house for $5,100! having become disgusted with the business on account of the mischeivousness of the young men who patronize the house. It is a students' boarding house. 
Friday January 7, 1859. The winter session commences Friday today, but with a thin attendance of students. I have a suspicion that this may prove a characteristic of the session: for it is confessed that money is harder to come at now, among businessmen and farmers of small capital, than a year ago, owing to the general stagnation for the year past. One year ago they had a little laid by for an emergency; now it is spent and a bare living has been obtained the past year. If this be true, many of our students who come from this class must teach to replenish their funds. 
Saturday January S, 1859. To get our machinery in motion is much like starting a huge steamboat in spring after a winter's rest. All the joints are stiff with rust and grease and it takes much cleaning and oiling to make all the parts move harmoniously. Last evening after prayers, 4 o'clock, ----"----held a Faculty Meeting in the Treasury Office, at which the course of studies of the term was read and discussed. A little friction occurred when the officers were called for to attend morning and evening prayers, a duty which no one likes and shirks if he can. Prof. Dr. J[ackson] thought (and justly) that there should be a more general distribution of this task among the Faculty, saying that he had borne more than his share more than 30 yrs. and now wanted some help. As no one felt disposed to 
volunteer, he felt Un. Coll. a little "houghy" [huffy? haughty?} and showed it; at last the matter was adjusted. 
Sunday January 9, 1859. Cold. To Baptist Ch., heard Mr. Day, who was indisposed with a sore throat. After service he called upon the Church to stop and then expressed his gratification at the recent vote of the Ch. raising his salary $200 for the coming year. It is now $700. 
Monday January 10, 1859. Thermometer this morning stood at 24 ¡ below zero! There was no such thing as keeping warm today anywhere except in bed. Students come in slowly and are not to be blamed for it: to leave a comfortable home [in] such weather, for our open, dirty, cold barracks would be the height of folly, nay stupidity. Met my class (Sophomore) in two divisions at 10 and 11. A. M., in Algebra. About 20 present; gave out lessons and adjourned. 
Tuesday January 11, 1859. This morning the mercury stood about 2 ¡ higher than yesterday morning. During vacation, by the Presidents direction, have put matting upon the Chapel, for the purpose of preventing the students stamping, which they did frequently last session, much to his annoyance. 
In every body like our Faculty there are apt to arise likes and dislikes. We are not exempt from them. We criticise each other, find fault and grumble. ----"----and Vph dont agree; no love is lost betw. them. J[ackson] and G[illespie] dont like Vph. They think him mean and rough, criticize his books &c. N[ewman] is charged with neglecting his study even to that degree that his classes do not respect his scholarship. &c&c. I try to keep clear of all these entangl[ing] e[le]ments. Since my annoying differences with ----"---.on business matters, I try to keep the peace with all. He has ceased to try his influence upon me and leaves me to my own way. 
Wednesday January 12, 1859. Weather some milder --a little snow yesterday and today. As an evidence of the early and steady winter weather, my coal bins gave out today and had to be replenished with 6 tons more of coal, making 12 tons in all; even this will not last the winter out, I fear. We have now had two months sleighing altho' at no time has there been over 6 or 8 inches of snow at any one time. There is but little drifting in the country. Paid taxes to day, $38. for 1858. Students scatter along; by the end of the week we may have our usual no. 
Thursday January 13, 1859. Mild day. Vph. called me in to talk over 
some matters. Among others he tells me Jona. Crane met with a great success in settling one of his ugly obligations endorsed for his son Edwd. Edwd. Crane borrowed SO or 60 thousand dollars of the late Judge Tomlinson to put into some speculation that ----"----urged him into. So says his fa[ther] Jonathan, who endorsed the notes. Edward failed. Judge T[ omlinson] died. The endorser became embarrassed and made an assignment of his property for his creditor's benefit. Judge T's executor, Mr. Edwards, advertised these obligations for sale and lately sold them for $15,000 to a Mr. Crane or at least to a friend of his. 
Vph. also spoke of Dr. L[ewis]'s changing his Soph. morning recitation from 8 to 9 o'clock as quite undesirable for the good attendance of the class at morning prayers. Vph. says ----"----spoke to him about putting a bar or fence across the Chapel aisles to turn a portion of the students out of each door and prevent crowding. Vph. says he objected to the plan, when ----"----flared up with great warmth saying, "I say it shall be done." It is evident that what one says, the other objects to: pity that it is so for the good of College more than for their own comfort. 
Friday January 14, 1859. Rain most of the day. My class numbers more than 40, in two divisions. I consider Algebra one of the most difficult studies to teach in our course. It is disheartening to sit and witness the ignorance of first principles shown by young men who have studied it two sessions already. Profs. J[ackson] and G[illespie] evidently dislike Vph. and rejoice much when an opportunity presents itself [for] criticizing his acts or books. The former told me today some of the glaring imperfections in his last work, such as would not do credit to a sophomore. 
Saturday January 15, 1859. He doubtless tells [the] truth but withal there was a mixture of exultation as tho' he was glad of it. I presume Vph. has been careless of his facts; reasoning a priori, he has been too independent of scientific laws to think it worth while to study them thoroughly. Mrs. [Nott?] too shares in this prejudice altho she says nothing to me about him. Finding an unfavorable criticism in the ''N. Y. Examiner" of last wk. on Vph's book, she desired me to lend her my copy evidently with some satisfaction that the work had got such a "hetcheling [?]." Such is human nature in you, in me, in all of us! I have found those who were in high repute for charity as faulty after all as the rest of us. 
Sunday January 16, 1859. Fine day. Wife and self went to the 2nd 
Dutch Church in the morning where we heard Rev. Artemas Dean Jr. preach upon the subject of reading and studying the Scriptures. A fair discourse with some exaggerations and straining. It is not seldom that clergymen do this and misquote scripture and wrest a text to quite another meaning from the true one. This doubtless is honestly done, but not the less injurious to the progress of the truth. The Old Testament is oftener wrongly cited than the New, because there seems to a prevalent fancy that it is necessary to "spiritualize" all parts of it and dig out a hidden as well as an apparent meaning. 
Monday January 17, 1859. It is often a question how far we are permitted by good morals and courtesy to go in our censures upon the conduct of others. The old adage is "Speak no evil of another if you can say nothing good of him." This is the maxim of policy and worldly wisdom and evidently should have a limit. If one is afraid of being called in question for his opinions and desires peace above all things, he had better keep his mouth closed and never speak his opinion. For my own part, an honest expression of opinion upon measures and men so far as they are connected with others and with the public I consider more manly than that timid policy which thinks evil and yet fears to express it. 
Tuesday January 18, 1859. I bought for my boys a book called the "Arabian Days Entertainment," of German origin and translated into English by a Boston gentleman. It is pretty good but after all a feeble imitation of the old and inimitable "Arabian Nights." As to morality, it is irreproachable and some of the stories are pretty and neatly done. 
Wednesday January 19, 1859. I said some time ago that a war of words was made upon our exellent Union School by those taxpayers who, having no children to educate, thought it hard to pay for the education of their neighbors. It was anticipated that a newspaper controversy would be kept up through the winter by the friends and enemies of the school. Thus far, however, hardly a word has been said in our papers except by the friends: either the others have no writing talent or they have been cowed by a strong public opinion against their opposition. 
Thursday January 20, 1859. Dr. Hickok calls for such a modification of our course of studies that classes shall recite at 8 and 3 o'clock -.the times of morning and evening prayers. If they do not, the young men ask to be excused from attending prayers and give a very 
plausible reason that, having no exercise at that hour, it is a loss of time for them to leave their rooms for chapel alone. So we are now overhauling our late course again for the purpose of remedying this defect. It is almost impossible, however, to do so because ----"---.does not want a Faculty Meeting, a thing he hates almost as much as he does a Trustees Meeting 
Friday January 21, 1959. Have been to a dozen times to get him to order some changes in the course of study but he will do nothing, neither will he call a Faculty Meeting; he shirks all responsibility. Vph. does the same; one waits for the other, neither will act, neither will ask the Fae. to decide altho' the latter is favorable to it. If a body has two heads, how can it move? In despair to effect an arrangement, a portion of the Fae. held an informal meeting tonight and came to an agreement, and the new programme was read in chapel tonight. 
Saturday January 22, 1859. A new excitement in College today! A young man from the Central College at McGrawville presented himself for admission to our Junior Class. He claims to be son of Indian and French parents altho some think him to be half negro. The President referred his entrance to the Junior Class, who discussed the matter with great spirit all the morning and finally voted to admit him 34 to 24. The Pres. thought the minority too strong and determined, and so sent the young [man] off. His name, I think, is Roselle. 
There is one decided objection to this mode of procedure, however much one may on the ground of expediency approve of his rejection: it gives much importance to the mere dictum of a set of young men of immature judgement and hot tempers. The Faculty should have decided this matter, not the students. I consider this whole proceeding juvenile and undignified, showing great want of nerve, a decided shirking of responsibility, and a fear to let the Faculty say and act in the matter. It is so characteristic, however, that any other course would astonish us all. 
Sunday January 23, 1859. Wife indisposed and home with her all day. Read the larger portion of the book of Genesis. The story of Joseph is peculiarly beautiful and instructive altho' he does not appear to have been a perfect character. What shall we say, then, of some of the other characters in the book! Men swayed by all the passions and vices of an uncivilized state! 
Monday January 25, 1859. Our sleighing is reduced to the least possible thickness but ,as it is solid ice and well distributed, it goes far. All things go by fashion; if it were customary to walk on ones head, everyone would fall in with it. Skating is now the rage among our juveniles, male and female. The latter, however, are only trying to skate, for as yet I have seen no one who could do more than stand upon the irons. This evening on walking down by the river we found it thronged with boys and girls on every vehicle that will slip -.skates, sleds, sleighs and shoes. 
Wednesday January 26, 1859. Beautiful day. Prof. C[handler] tells me that ----"----has given him some of the young colored man's hair to examine with the microscope, the same who desired to enter College last Saturday but was rejected by a minority of the Junior Class. ----"----'s object seems to be to test the young man's assertion that he is an Indian, not a negro for, if a negro or having much negro 
blood, his hair will have a peculiar structure. Great secrecy is enjoined because he would not consider it creditable if the public should understand that he tested the young man's fitness for entering the Junior Class by a scrutiny of his wool. 
Down to the river tonight with wife and boys to see the latter skate. It so happened that the Binne Kill near where our poor boy was drowned afforded the best sport for the young folks and here congregated almost the whole city to see the sport. Wife received a sewing machine -Pratt's patent --today, a gift from Miss M. of N. Y. A good-for-nothing machine --goes hard and makes a chain-stitch which ravels out from beginning to end unless well fastened. "Musnt look a gift horse" &c. Opened Library from 2 to 4 P. M. 
Call from Dr. Sylvester S. Strong of Saratoga Spgs. who came down to visit Mrs. J. R. Craig. 
Yesterday was the regular time for the semi-annual meeting of the Board of Trustees. Not one came but Mr. Delavan and he not to the meeting but to escort Dr. Nott to Burritt's "Compensation Meeting" at Albany. The object of this Society is to devise ways and means of abolishing slavery by buying up the slaves, a perfectly visionary scheme which will do no good only to give occasion to talk about slavery. 
Yesterday visited Union School in company with Prof. G[illespie]. 
Thursday January 27, 1859. Fine warm day. The young colored man Rosel of whom I spoke before is said to be admitted to College on the ground of his being half Indian instead of Negro! The proof was 
-
completed by the examination of his hair under the microscope! This is what may be called a novel mode of college examination! I am sure no one but ----"----would have thought of this method of solving the difficulty. 
The whole affair has been undignified and ridiculous. First, the young man's case was submitted to the Junior Class for discussion, exciting the whole college, and when the vote was taken and decided in his favor, because the majority was insufficient, he was sent off. Second. As a preliminary, the young man was obliged to make an affidavit that his mother was Indian and his father French. Third. To reduce all opposition, the further ridiculous indignity was perpetrated of subjecting his hair to microscopic examination, to confirm his affadavit as tho' its structure had anything to do with his respectability and character. The whole affair is disreputable to the College and (for no.other person had any thing to do with it or were asked or informed of it) puerile and evidence of want of moral 
courage and pluck.  
Friday January  28, 1859.  The worst  day  of [t he] seaso n  for street. 
walkers. Snow last  night  and  rain  all  day,  till  the  water pours  

down our streets. 
Saturday January 29, 1859. Hero-worship is carried to such a height that sober-minded people cannot but be disgusted by it. Notoriety is taken for greatness, and good medium people in posts of honor are extolled as gods. Where is there a really great man? one distinguished, head and shoulders above his fellows, by real genius and mental power? There is but one such in a century. An elevated position does not make a great man even when he is successful. A great army, well officered, may conquer a nation altho' the General be but a commonplace man. A President whose administration originates and successfully carries out great measures for the country may be but a man of straw. A college President surrounded by a talented faculty may be but a mediocre man of plain common sense and yet the institution may acquire great success and justly. 
In all these cases, success crowns the work, and the man at the nominal head carries away all the honor. Such is the short.sightedness of popular judgement. It is easier to give all the credit to one man than to seek out and reward the several individuals whose merit and labors have contributed to the result. The Blarney Stone of New England is said to be Plymouth Rock, justly perhaps. The Blarney Stone of the Nation just now is Washington --a good, plain man of good, plain common sense and judgement but far inferior to 
many of his officers in genius and military talent. His name, however, is the only one now mentioned in connection with our great Revolutionary struggle: he did all, he fought all the Britishers and conquered them, he organized the new government and carried the ship of state into a safe harbor; he had no faults but all the virtues of all the best men that ever lived, &c. till one is entirely nauseated with praise and hero-worship. 
As I said, Washington was a plain, common sense man in no respect great save by his position and the success of one cause: had we failed, he would have been forgotten or traduced as an inefficient general to whom should be charged the ill success of our rebellion. In one respect he may be called an uncommon man --in the moderation of his desires and in the curbing of his ambition. 
Sunday January 30, 1859. The religious and moral influence of Union College over her students is little or nothing. Whether other colleges do more, I know not, tho' it is probable that the small country schools do better. In all circles of educated men, the subject of moral education is much talked about and vaunted, its necessity much insisted on, but when we come to the real thing --a practical and constant application of this much desired rule to our literary institutions --we fall infinitely short of the proper standard erected for us by the public or by ourselves. á 
Monday January 31, 1859. In respect to U. C. our practice is not to let young men do any outrageous thing that would bring disgrace upon the College. Our theory is to make them moral and religious young men. We do not do it: á neither do other Colleges. In most respects, therefore, we may be as far advanced morally [as] others: yet it is an unpleasant thing to carry a false appearance, to profess more than we practice. 
Tuesday February 1, 1859. This afternoon Jonathan Crane made me a long call, the first in some years. He has not thought it safe to do so, on account.of ----"----'s jealousy of College people, whom he feared might learn something of business matters at Hunter Point. C[rane] is a very talkative man, sanguine and hopeful, and knows more of ----11----'s business in the past than any other man perhaps. He says he lost $300.000 by Bliss and $300.000 by Bradford, $150.000 by Ball Mountain, of which Lowber is agent, &c&c. The enumeration of his losses is frightful, and this comes of his careless, credulous slip-shod manner of doing business. 
Wednesday February 2, 1859. C[rane] speaks also of leaving the "Point" for some other place more congenial to his tastes and feelings. He thinks the work is in such a state of forwardness there that he could now leave without detriment to the interests of the proprietors. That may or may not be so; it is evident, however, that the property must be managed with prudence or great losses will occur, or at best small gains will be made. 
Thursday February 3, 1859. Library Day 2 to 4 P. M. but few stu.dents call for books. I fear great prosperity more than adversity. The former brings along with it responsibilities that the latter does not have and renders one the object of remark and criticism. It is better, therefore, to keep low and not court the envy of those around 
us. 
Friday February 4, 1859. My opposite neighbor Ostrander two years since built a huge three-story boarding house for students which has much the appearance of a cotton factory. He built 20 rooms in it to rent, besides family apartments, and a great dining-room and kitchen. House and furniture cost him nearly 11.000 dolls. He started off well; boarders came in and filled his house: all things seemed to prosper, but in an evil day some of his tenants became disorderly; he quarrelled with them, sued one, and in disgust resolved to abandon the business at whatever hazard. He advertised the house for sale and on the 1st of Jan sold it for $5,100 --less than half the cost. 
Saturday February 5, 1859. This morning, started for Troy to get the rent for West Troy leases and dividend of Farmer's Bank, declared the 1st of Jan. In the R. R. coach met with Mr. J. M. Peck of Schend'y --late of Troy and member of our Bapt. Ch. He talked most of the way down about the Ch. meeting at which Mr. Day's salary was raised $200. This simple act of justice, he tells me, was opposed by some of the wealthiest members, and it was only by offering himself to meet the increase if the ch. was not able to do so, that a vote for the proposition could be carried. It is wonderful --the imperfection of our best professions in church or state. 
Arrived at W. Troy, found about $400 for me at W. T. Bank paid in by the tenants since the 1st of Jan. College owns 40 leases (perpetual) of $12.50 each, the rent on which is payable Jan. 1. make out the receipts and leave them at the W. Troy Bk. on the 1st of Jan., notify the tenants to pay there and on the 1st of Feb. draw what is paid in, and my receipts, and then notify the delinquents 
,,..,,,...,-.
again to pay at Schen. In this way I usually get my money at an expense of not more than 3 or 4 dollars yearly, whereas the former owner paid 25$ yearly for collection, I mean Mr. E. C. Delavan. To the Farmers Bk., Troy, where I got a 3 pr. ct. dividend on the College stock, which is $5,900 worth. To the Greenbush R. R. depot to take the train for Albany, 10 m. too late; across the river to N[orth] R. R. Depot in W. Troy and 4 m. too late; walked half an hour and took the stage sleigh which plodded thro' to. Albany just before 2 o'clock. Lunch and start for home by N. Y. C. R. R. 
Sunday February 6, 1859. Wife and self in morning to Bpt. Ch. where heard Mr. Day. In P. M. at 2 o'clock attended the celebration of the Lords Supper. A goodly number present. In evening read to wife out of the early Jewish history in Exodus &c. One can come to but one conclusion in regard to the Israelites --that they were a singularly stiffnecked and wayward people, if they had any knowledge whatever of the high favor in which they were held by God, who made them the depositories of his law and worship. They were but a trifle better than their idolatrous neighbors, with whom they fraternised in all their unlawful practices. In all their ways they were perverse and merited to be cast off as incorrigible. Theirs is a wonderful instance of the forbearance and long-suffering kindness of the almighty. 
Monday February 7, 1859. Nearly opposite my house in Union St. is a lot of ground owned now by a James Morrison, 169 x 1SO ft. This he has been trying to sell and finally bargained it to Mr. G. W. Veeder; the latter fell back and a Mr. Knowlson purchased it for $1,000. He is about to build, they say, a pretty house in the middle of it and otherwise ornament it with trees &c. Being just opposite the College Park and on the ascent of the Hill, no more desirable site could be selected. 
Tuesday February 8, 1859. In 1857 Dr. Nott commenced a large brick-house near the entrance gate to College grounds on Union Street. When finished, it will probably have cost not much short of 12,000 dollars and was begun, like most of the Dr's undedtakings, without much forethought as to how it was to be paid for, only that he had the promise of something from Mrs. Cruger of New York, an eccentric woman, liberal, but flighty and unreliable. To help the matter, he asked the Trustees to allow him to expend a certain 4000 and odd dollars which he owed the College upon his house; this was granted and this indebtedness is wiped out. The house went on until 
it was enclosed and roofed in the fall of 1857, since when the work 
has been at a standstill. 
Wednesday February 9, 1859. Library Day. The Wheatley Collection is now opened twice a week, Wed. and Sat., from 2 to 4 P. M. for visitors. The responsible Keeper is Prof. Ch. F. Chandler with a sub.Keeper, Mr. Ch. W.A. Hermann, an old German from N. Y. He is a trading mineralogist and came up to assist Prof. Whitney of Northampton, Mass. in unpacking and arranging the Wheatley Collection. Both these Keepers were appointed by the President in accordance with the Trust Deed of Mr. E. C. Delavan. 
Thursday February 10, 1859. How often daily my thoughts dwell upon our dear boy Henry, whom we lost so suddenly last July! It is now nearly 8 months since we buried him, and yet the wound bleeds afresh so often as I think of our sad loss. I can[not] say that I would have it otherwise; Heaven forbid that we should ever forget him. It is a subject to be thought of but not to be talked about. Alas! how many do I meet who have been more sadly afflicted than we! 
Friday Februaryl 1, 1859. Today we have had one of those boyish and inconsiderate affairs so often met with in College. It has been rumored that a harum-scarum, vicious fellow named Mer[r]iam, who was in College a few years since, had been appointed consul to Siam by the President. Whereupon the Senior Class resolved to celebrate the event by inviting him to address them in the P. M. and partake a supper with them in the evening. Today the address was delivered in chapel, a rambling, political, off-hand speech of 20 minutes without method or sense. 
Saturday February 12, 1859. In a Treasury Office situated like ours, including also the Registrar's office and books, there are continual calls of business and for chat, especially by the Faculty. Thoughtless persons who have too much time of their own are often tempted to waste their own and their neightbors too, by calls and tittle-tattle. Such is one of my worst afflictions; hours are sometimes wasted th us and necessary business sadly put back. 
Sunday Februaryl3, 1859. Wife and self in the morning attended the 2d Dutch Ch., corner of Liberty and Jay Streets, where we heard a young stranger --a man of good abilities and more than common power as a speaker. He preached without notes and quite fluently, which I marvelled at in a Dutch minister, if indeed he be one. 
I("(

Presbyterian, Dutch, Congregational and Episcopalian Ministers mostly read their sermons. It is almost impossible to find one who does not. What they gain in exactness, they lo[o]se in power and freedom. In evening, read to wife from Numbers and Judges, of the Jewish history. A remarkable people! a singular people to be called God's people! To serve Him seems to have been the exception with them, instead of the rule. Their best men and leaders sometimes had odd notions of right and wrong and sadly fell away from a holy life. 
Monday February 14, 1859. Father Harvey, who returned from [the] South a few days since, left this P. M. with Mother H. for New York, to be gone a few days. Some days since, one of our College elections was held for some petty officers or committee; party spirit ran high and the parties were so nearly equal that one vote was of immense importance. In this emergency a bold stroke was made: two individuals were sent to one Lilly's room and blockaded it with knife and pistol to prevent his participating in the election, and they even used violence to keep him in. Finally he was released by friends. 
As a matter of course L. felt outraged and complained to the President of this trespass upon his rights, which in a civil court would entitle him to damage. As usual the entire action on the part of ----"----was to hush up the ugly affair and shirk responsibility. To accomplish the latter, he appointed a committee to consult Lilly for the purpose of seeing what he wanted! or [with] how little he would be satisfied!! In other words L. was to say how much or how little the culprits were to be punished. To this L. demurs, thinking it strange that an assault and battery, false imprisonment or whatever it may be called, has no penalties attached to it in College Laws and that the President should throw the responsibility of decreeing a punishment upon him by which he would incur all the odium of the act and the hatred of the culprits friends. 
Tuesday February 15, 1859. Wind south and drizzle in P. M. Last evening Mrs. Judge Paige called to get the use of the Baptist Meeting House for a lecture by Fitzhugh Ludlow for the benefit of the Mt. Vernon Assoc., of which she is one of the most effective managers and agents in these parts. Saw A. A. Wemple and Powell, Trustees, and obtained permission. 
As to this project of purchasing Mt. Vernon at the round sum of $200,000., or $1000 pr. acre [of] land, which is probably intrinsically worth not more than $20., I have some doubts; or rather I ought to say I have no doubts that it is folly and extravagance. If it is to be purchased, let the nation do it: I hold however that it is not needed, 
-

not certainly for Washingtons honor; for if he were a God he could not be more lauded. So long as the American are hero-worshippers of such intense power, no monuments are needed for our great, certainly none for W[ashington]. 
Wednesday February 16, 1859. Bright warm day: the snow and ice are wasting rapidly. This winter has been a series of little snows, little rains, little thaws and little freezes. Since the 17[th] Nov. we have had continued good sleighing altho several times it has been nearly ruined. It is highly probable that tonight the weather will change to cold and thus save our sleighing. One more such a day as this would ruin it. Library Day --but few there. 
Thursday February 17, 1859. Wet. Bo't for U. C. a bond and mortgage given by J. and K. McGue for 1300 dolls., of the heirs of Rev. Thos. Romeyn. The purchase of the taking of mortgages is vexatious what with the various searches, examination of title and papers &c. There is trouble enough to disgust one with this kind of security and drive him to bonds, RR., city, or state. 
Friday February18, 1859. Melting weather, sleighing ruined. Heard today that a party of 10 students got a good pummeling last night in a tavern down Union St. --"Mose Gardner's" --just what they deserved for their folly in going to such places. Certain students are talking about publishing a College paper --a thing often attempted here but never successful. 
Saturday Februaryl9, 1859. Melting weather. Saw Mr. Duryea, who has been employed by "U. C. Alumni Assoc." one month, to get subscriptions for the "Graduates Hall. " He thinks the managers have made a great mistake in stopping his work for the past winter, thus putting off the commencement of the proposed Hall. It seems that he labored one month last fall to the satisfaction of the managers but, as no money had as yet been paid in, they thought his agency must cease until collections had been made: but the subscriptions were made payable in two parts, the first when the foundation was completed, the second when the building was finished: what do they do then! Notwithstanding these conditions, they immediately call upon the subscribers to pay up the whole! and stop all work to see the result of this call. A greater piece of folly could not be devised: in the very first step, the friends of the College have been insulted by this sudden and unlooked-for call. What makes the matter worse is that the Managers, who were supposed to be the largest donors, 

decline to advance enough to continue Mr. D's services, but call 
instead upon the small outside subscribers. The whole matter has 
been badly managed and must fall thro' unless more energy and 
wisdom are displayed. 
Mr. D. says that Dr. Nott now sets him to work for a month independently of the Association, and that he will take the cities of Albany and Troy next. From the former he does not expect much -.not over $1000. altho' there be wealth and over 150 graduates there. The fact seems to be undenied that A[lbany] has always felt jealous of S[chenectady] because the latter robbed her of the College in 1794; and moreover the great investigation into the affairs of U. C. (Dr. Nott's in reality) in the year 1851-2 was helped on by several Albanians of influence who have poisoned the public mind against us. So long at least as Dr. N. is President the Albanians will not patronize U. C. to any great extent. They dislike him worse than they do the College. His connection with the lotteries and his financial management generally has more that anything else set their minds against him and the College. Mr. D. says that the impression is pretty common among our friends that U. C. is. rich enough, having received $600,000 from Dr. N. That foolish story, so industriously circulated far and wide, has done us immense injury. 
Sunday February 20, 1859. With wife to Presbyterian Ch. for the first time since our dear Henry's death. The Sabbath before his death he occupied the same seat so often filled by him; the remembrance was sad, not unmixed with pleasure. Oh, how we prize our friends when taken from us forever! how their virtues shine and their little faults all disappear! May our dear boys remembrance always be sweet and fresh. Dr. Backus preached in his usual manner. He is an excellent pastor and man altho' his sermons do not suit me --not from any other reason than want of clearness and simplicity. Dr. B. has always been afflicted with a dictionary: he uses the biggest words and in the most unusual sense, 
Monday February 21, 1859. Windy. March wind, enough to blow one's hair off! Washington's birthday fever is getting up: balls, military turn-outs, speeches, suppers &c. are in course and pre.paration. All these things are not so much to honor the day with, as the day is made an occasion for, diversion and pastime. 
Tuesday February 22, 1859. Fine day. Contrary to expectation we had no "bolts" in College and there was much less feverishness there 
Pearson ná Iary Sept. 25, 1856 .
than we had -April 2 8, l 859 / Jti) evening in B reason to ex 1":i.-8-s Paige is apt, Ch.for the Peet. Fitz-Hu h 
manager in thes benefit of Mt ~ g Ludlow lect 
W e Parts. á ernon Fund ured last 
ednesctay F b , of Which M 
ve e rua rs.
--: ar --truly few ry 23, 1859 . . 
life and Ohr h anct evil[?] h . This day cl
Yea h . ow shortl h. ave been th oses my n 
ti rs, owever, do n y s. all I be on th e days of th orty-sixth
eel as Well now ot weigh heavn e downhill s. e Years of m 
:~~t~~~á :i?:/~~l: 1;~!)i%:1f\~grf
f~1i~/1~~~t:~t[}g£z
and the hopes of the fu'tu~!hese I have in all th~ ~~~e are causes ngi
¥ esses of my life T~ursday February 24 1859 . . b;1ng Fast Day for Coll~ges th~ fte~nr:r.~ ~e n~ght, clear by noon This 
~ Adl?dany,was invited to preach t~ th~ stu~h1ng, ~ Methodist mi~ister 
e 1 at 10 o'clock A. M. He is a ou u ents in the chapel, which address, fluent but very diffuse H'y ng ~an of rather pleasing detract much from the effectivene.ss o1sf pde~1t1ons constant and
hre1á are 
s 1scourse. 
Friday F~bruary 25, 1859. Cold and wintry, wind N.E. Dr. Backus call~ this P. _M._After talking of school matters, he got upon the [subJect of?~ d1sc1pline of College which he thinks very meanly of and that what httle there was a few years since has been rapidly falling off the 2 years past. As to church going, he thinks not more than one half of the students habitually attend and that those who stay away are engaged in such amusements as are scandalous to the College. As to the facts we agreed, so also as to the remedies. -Our laws are sufficient, but their enforcement next to nothing. Without very pointedly implicating Vph. I could see that the Dr's feeling was that he shirked his duty and left all to be done by ----"----, whose age forbids the same labor as formerly. 
Saturday February 26, 1859. This morning saw Vph. who had his budget of troubles to unfold. Things go all out of joint, but he charges all upon ----"----who, he says, will not let him do as he wishes. I suggested that he might take the reins in his own hands and drive as he pleases, to which he objected that in such case he would justly be chargeable by ---... "----and his friends with trying to assume authority and attempting to oust----"----before he was ready to give up. Vph. says he is anxious to do all he can and as far as----"--.-will let him. 
/. 

/')bl 
Sunday February 27, 1859. With wife to Bpt. Ch. and heard Rev. Mr Day. In evening, the history of the Hebrews as shown in the Book of Samuel, and a sad history it was. Could any other people esteeming themselves Gods especial favorites, be found so rebellious and ungrateful? 
Monday February 28, 1859. At two o'clock P. M. Board of Education met at the house of James R. Craig in Church Street, being the regular meeting of the month. In evening met Mr. Clarke, the Superintendent of the Union School and Rev. Dr. Backus at the house of the latter as a committee of the B. of Educ. to revise and add to the Rules of the Bd. It is found to be a difficult matter to harmonize all interests and powers about this school, which like an immense cumberous machine requires great skill [to] manage. 
Tuesday March 1, 1859. Tonight at No. 16, Prof. Fosters Rec[itation] Room to attend one of those termly farces called Examination. Prof. 
F. could not spare time before next week and the Exam. was put off till then. I am told that Prof J[ackson] has undertaken to criticise Dr. H[ickok]'s Rational Cosmology, in his Astronomy class --at least those parts which contain scientific statements appertaining to his department. Dr. H. has a voluntary class in Rat[ional] Cosmology using his books as text-book. 
Wednesday March 2, 1859. The shocking tragedy in Washington on Sunday last --the murder of Philip B. Key by Daniel Sickles --has occasioned a vast amount of discussion; whilst admitting the ag[g]ravated nature of Key's offense, sober men justly condemn S[ickles] as a murderer. On the other hand, perhaps the majority of men say "he served him right." "Key deserved death." This is an awful comment on the rottenness of our fashionable society and upon the consequences of giving loose to evil passions. 
Thursday March 3, 1859. Called in by Dr N. to talk about the N[ott] T[rust] Fund property at Hunter Point, L. I. He says he is glad, "wonderful glad," to give up the agency of this business into the hands of the College, but that now they have got it, they dont do a thing, dont look after the property and take no more interest in it than if they had no ownership in it. I said that I was intending to go down in April to look at the property and see how matters were conducted. 
The fact is I have never been upon the ground because I did not think I could go there without exciting his jealousy of some interference from College. Mr. Jona. C[rane], one of the partners, has not dared to enter the Treas. Office for years for fear ----"----would suspect him of telling something about the business and has been told time and again by ----"----not to tell anything to people from the College as they had no business to know anything. 
Friday March 4, 1859. But last July the Trustees resolved that it was their business and duty to look after the matter, at which ----"-.--was very much offended and it it was only after a visit to Chanc[ellor] W., who doubtless convinced him that such must be the duty of the Trustees, that he acquiesed in the decision of the Board and yeilded with the best grace possible. 
á Tonight the Sigma Phi society hold an annual meeting at the Ph[o]enix hotel where a grand supper (and "Drunk" I fear) is to be had. There are a few young men in College who will go to destruction in spite of all human means --it always has been so. Drink they will, get drunk they will. Yesterday in bro[a]d daylight one Farnham from Buffalo was seen staggering about the College Campus too drunk to go straight. Perhaps we are too lenient with notoriously vicious young; indeed I know we are. That is a fault with Dr. N. --he leans so to the side of mercy that, the more a young man errs, the more he clings to him and likes him. All well this, were it not for others who may be contaminated by his influence and example. Dr N. 's maxim is (in his own words) to hold on to a young man until he falls of his own accord like a ripe or rotten pear, then his companions will not blame the Pres. or Fae. ( the latter have nothing to do with discipline). 
Saturday March 5, 1859. Wet, mud, slush and all spring abominations under foot , but bright and gay overhead. No evil without some compensation. My cheif business today was writing dunning letters to students and their parents. Our term bill collections are made in a most slovenly way without system or order. It cannot be helped, however, now. ----"----thinks nobody can improve upon his idea of finance. 
Sunday March 6, 1859. The first day of the season. Water runs in torrents in the streets. A. M. attended 2d Dutch Ch. and heard Rev. A. Dean preach a sermon on the Body and Blood of Christ, it being Communion Sunday. The rest of the day read to wife from the Old Testament --the history of Davids reign over the Hebrews. I cannot say that it gives me much pleasure [to] know of the shocking history of this rebellious and stiff-necked people. This favored people, 
I"". 
blessed of God and continually the recipients of his mercies, lived and acted as tho' their most barbarous and heathen neighbors. What indeed were the Jews but an idolatrous people with an occasional hasty repentance and turning to God. Theirs is a strange history; it is not lovely, nor pleasing. 
Monday March 7, 1859. The thaw continues. Soon the earth will appear and the waters of the Mohawk. Much of the day, when out of the Rec. Room, writing dunning letters to graduates of Classes of 1856 and 1857. Tonight met Mr. Clark, Superintendent of Union School, and Dr. Backus at the study of the latter to revise the Course of Studies of the school. Discussed matters till 10 o'clock. Dr. B. showed a plan and elevation for enlargement of the Presbyterian Ch. adding about 400 seats to the present. Also the Dr. spoke with much feeling of the state of things in College and said there would be a great blowup at Commencement, meaning that the Trustees would call somebody to account for the slack discipline of Coll. There is evidently much hard feeling against Vph. among the friends of----".---who charge him with favoring this slackness; that odium may come upon the latter. They even charge that Vph. has tampered with students and spoke slightingly of-----"----. 
This doubtless is untrue; yet when ill feeling exists slight evidence only is required to sustain charges. I have tried to find some measure of peace between the principals but find none. Henceforth, therefore, I stand aloof. I can do no good and may get harm by intermeddling. 
Tuesday March 8, 1859. Rain in torrents last night, moderately today. 
Wednesday March 9, 1859. Beautiful day, a little snow last night. Saw Dr N. again this morning; he said of the N. Trust Fund property at Hunter Point that it was necessary for someone from College to go down and see to it. Of Mr. Crane, the Manager hitherto, he says, "Crane is an honest, good man but he talks too much. He cant manage a business of this kind, but is excellent in removing dirt, of which no more need be done these 6 or 8 yrs." It is evident that Dr. 
N. thinks Crane's services are no longer needed; in fact he say that Anable is the best man to take care of the property and make sales. On the other hand, Crane does not think A[nabel] fit to manage; he does not respect his judgement altho' esteeming him honest. Ely does nothing (Dr. N says) nor does his son and Trustee L. K. Ely. There are horses and carts, boats and dredging machines, none of which are 
needed any longer and might be sold. 
Thursday March 10, 1859. Beautiful day. Call from Edward Potter, who has been appointed their architect by the Alumni Association of 
U. C. He came up from N. Y. to talk about the plans for the Graduates Hall now about to be begun. He proposes to build a 16-sided house with two high stories, the lowest for a chapel, the highest for a hall for alumni meetings. It is a pity that the round form is chosen -.totally impracticable design, costly and unsuitable. I have not great confidence in the ability of this young architects judgement, but being Mr. Blatchford's son-in law, his plans must be submitted to at whatever cost. 
Dr. Hickok met me today, quite hurt that Prof. J[ackson] has criticised his book so severely and in such a manner before the students. He thinks common courtesy should have been shown by J. to him --that he should have come to him first and called attention to such facts as seemed to teach false science and, after hearing explanations, if not satisfied, have expressed his dissent in a dignified manner and not by slurs and flings. He is doubtless right. We should be careful as Profs. of the reáputation of each other among students and others. Much less should J[ackson] have shown undue feeling because it is well known that he has been not too well pleased with H[ickok] hitherto. 
Friday March 11, 1859. At a meeting of Board of Education in Union School Building till after 9 o'clock P. M. The newly revised laws and course of studies were read and passed. Spoke this morning to Prof. G[illespie] about Prof. J's onslaught on Dr. H's new book. G. justified 
J. and thought he had done right in showing up H's false science. I did not object to a fair and courteous criticism of H's book in a proper place but did not see the justice of one professor's openly attacking another before students. "It is a foul bird that defiles his own nest." 
Saturday March 12, 1859. Fine day. The spring has opened early. The snow has mostly disappeared and the frost from the ground. The ice has moved from the rivers --robins and other birds are heard; in fine, if we have no drawback the farmer will put plow into the ground in a week's time. 
Sunday March 13, 1859. Beautiful day. Wife and self to Baptist Church and heard Mr. Day preach a missionary sermon. Among other things he toutched upon personal responsibility, a subject as difficult to treat satisfactorily as any a minister ever toutches upon. 
I"' 
It is seldom that a moral or religious teacher speaks upon the subject without urging it to extremes and really "running it into the ground." Thus Mr. D. today by way of illustration says if a man by neglect or carelessness causes the death of another, he is guilty of murder, &c&c. Such teachings of moral or religious duties do not tell well upon minds capable of reflection. 
Monday March 14, 1859. Mild day with wind south and prospect of rain. This P. M. Horatio Gates Warner of Rochester called to see me about the investment of $700, the income of which he proposes to invest yearly in a goblet or other piece of plate to be given to the student of Union Coll. who [in] the last two years of his course takes the highest stand for scholarship and good conduct. He is a graduate of 1826 and makes this offer for the good of his Alma Mater. He desires a permanent as well as safe investment. I suggested therefore the permanent leases of West Troy, of which we already own 40, and agreed to write about them to someone at W. T. He gives the award of the prize to the President and 2 senior Profs. I asked him if by Senior be meant the oldest person in age, or the eldest as to Professorship; he said the latter. He tells me he is 5 8 years of age and is a cousin of every Warner who has graduated at Union College. 
Tuesday March 15, 1859. Bought and am reading Thomson's "Land and the Book." The title alone shows that Mr. T. knows but little of the craft of bookmaking, for his first and most important line in the book conveys no meaning as to its import and subject. It is necessary therefore to say that the Land and the Book is on the Holy Land and the Bible. Much that the author says is very well expressed, interesting and explanatory of scripture history. The only drawback is a suspicion that some of his illustrations seem too good, too apt, too happy. One is led to ask "Is it possible that such obscure passages can be so easily and clearly explained by existing customs and natural phenomena? There [are] many defects in style: some rudeness and inelegancies of language, want of consistency in spelling proper names, omission of quotation marks, and italics in words of other languages &c&c. Such offences are of no great consequence but nevertheless should not be suffered. 
Wednesday March 16, 1859. Recitations and Library. Never before this has Dr. Nott asked me to go to Hunter Point to see the College property there. It has been generally understood that he was jealous of any interference there and in consequence I have avoided the place hitherto. Both Judge P[aige] and he now desire me to go there 
and get an insight into business and know how the property is situated. 
Thursday March 17, 1859. Beautiful day. Tonight one of those occasional farces called Examinations for students who by reason of absence from College were required to make up omitted s.tudies. Of the three who presented themselves for Exam. in Conics, no one passed; they deliberated a long time how to find the conjugate axis! of the parabola, when I thought it time to send them off. What is the remedy? Stop so much going out of College for all purposes and occasions, and have a set of independent examiners in no way connected with College, appointed and paid by the Board of Trustees. 
Friday March 18, 1859. Prof. G[illespie] spoke today about the unpleasant feeling existing between ----"----and Vph. and said that Dr. L[ewis] was inclined to attempt a reconciliation by a conversation with both. I also spoke to Tutor M[illard] about the matter as it respects the students: he says they well know there is something wrong between them, also that Dr. J[ackson] does not like Vph. and takes occasion to criticise his book savagely and sarcastically. M[il.lard] says that when students go to Vph. on some occasions, as for example when Roselle the colored student was applying for admission, he (Vph) said he could do nothing as he had no authority to act; they must go to ----"----. 
Saturday March 19, 1859. Delightful day, snow all gone. Mohawk over his banks, frost out of the ground &c&c. I am trying to get all my office business and records in such order, so full and clear as to lead to no mistification, in case they get an overhauling at some future time. It is hazardous to have to do with large money transactions because few men are careful enough and exact enough to leave clear records of all their transactions for their successor, and in nothing are men more uncharitable than about sins of omission or commission in money matters of corporations. It is lamentably common for frauds to be committed --so common that the honest public servants are almost sure to be suspected if a single slip be made: there is no charity for them. 
Sunday March 20, 1859. A very windy day. Read to wife all day in Bible and in Thompson's "Book and theLand" --the latter a carelessly made book, showing on almost every page the marks of inexperience and blunderings too bad for so fine a subject. The authors long residence of 25 yrs in the Holy Land and his frequent wanderings 
thro' it have given him great authority and confidence in his opinions. 
Monday March 21, 1859. Fine day. My neighbor Mr. Hook died this morning at 4 o'clock, suddenly, at the great age of 82 1/2. To within one week he has been out every day this winter and walked as strait as a young man. No one took him for a man of more than 70. His last sickness was a severe cold of no unusual symptoms and he dropped off as if going to sleep without groan or struggle. The Mohawk Bank of S[chenectady] is in an unpleasant turmoil --pamphlet after pamphlet is hurled at the heads of the disputants, charging each other with fraud, ignorance and breach of trust. The parties seem to be cheifly J. W. Jones, a director, versus B. V. S. Vedder, ex-Bank cletk, Abel Smith ex-Vice Pres., and J. R. Craig, Ex-Pres. One against three. It is a bitter and not very reputable warfare. 
Tuesday March 22, 1859. Funeral of Mr. Hook at 3 1/2 P.M. The body was taken to New York to be buried in Greenwood. In conversation with G., bookseller in town, today he asked if Dr. Hickok was about to leave College, saying that he regretted it if it were so and that the College meet[s] with a great loss in losing him. I said I had not heard from him that he was going to leave, only from some outsiders. He then said that the students thought he was going away on account of Dr J[ackson]s attack upon his book, and the offensive manner of his criticisms and flings, which have very much pained not only Dr. H[ickok] but also many of his friends among the students. I then asked how Dr. H[ickok] stood among the students; he said excellently well, that he had never heard one say anything against him: they liked him because he was blunt and frank, always to be trusted, always known by what he said or did. Whilst many says he thinks just the reverse, you dont know where to find him, he is close and non committal. 
Wednesday March 23, 1859. Last Library Day of the term. Vph talked about his unpleasant situation and about Prof. G[illespie]'s attack upon his book &c., but nothing new. I said I had heard he was going to leave; he said he had not told any one so, did not know that he should do so, thought it might have originated from some students who, knowing he felt hurt by Prof j's manner of criticizing his book, had concluded he would not stay to be abused &c.; or else the report was father to the wish and came from someone none too well affected towards him. It is pretty evident that Vph. is disappointed in that ----"----holds on so long abd so obstinately to the reins 
whereas he had been given to understand when he came here that -.--"----would stand aside and let him take his place. In fact knew not himself -knew not that ----"----couldnt let go, or knew not that he could'nt work with another unless the latter yeilded in all things to his wishes, or else he never meant to do as Vph. thought he would. One thing is quite remarkable: how skillful----"----is in making one think a thing is so and so without saying so. Words with him mean á something quite different from their ordinary meaning or have quite 
some other power. 
Thursday March 24, 1859. Prof. P[eissner] also spoke today of the unpleasant state of things --order running down, discipline relaxed, and wild boys running riot; and wished something might be done by Trustees to put things in a good position. Some days since, passing the "Old Academy Building," north corner of Union and Ferry Streets, now in process of removal, I discovered a red sandstone monument among the rubbish of the following form 
--DRAWING HERE-.
about 18 in. in diameter and having the following inscription: 
"Built Under the Direction of the Rev. D. Romeyn, W. Schermerhorn, Z. Glen, A. Oathout, A. Glen, C.V. Slyck, C.V. Dyck and A.V. Patten. M.S.T. Eyck (no date). This academy lot 53 x 135 was bought of Johannes Patman of Caughnawaga in 1785 by the Dutch Ch. and the same year the building was erected; in 1795 the church gave it to Union College. It was used for College purposes till 1804 when the "West College, now "Union School," was finished and occupied. Since the latter date it has been used for various purposes, as Court House and jail till 1812 or 1815, dwelling house, cabinet and beer shop &c. The old building was 30 by 52 on the ground; two stories high; with "gambrel" roof and dorm[e]r windows until 15 or twenty years since when, the roof having been burnt off, a plain one was supplied. The two storys were variously cut up at different periods, originally in to two rooms each, one on each side of the middle hall; afterwards the up[p]er story was all in one room &c .. 
Friday March 25, 1859. Out this P.M. with committee of Corporation to stake out East Liberty Street with Jne. Horsfall, David M. Moore. Com[mittee]; Mr. C. Reagles, College farmer, and T. D. Brooks, sur.veyor and Mr. G. W. Veeder. This evening, 5 to 6, Faculty meeting in Treasury Office. Present: Vice Pres. Hickok, Professors Jackson, Foster, Gillespie, Newman, Peissner, Pearson; Tutors Deremer, 
Millard. Dr. Nott absent (also Dr. Lewis) on account of illness, having fell yesterday and injured himself. 1. Read over list of students and discussed "hard cases" and lazy ones. 2. Proposed, by Dr. Nott's directions, the case of the Senior Class having a supper at Given's Hotel this session, and asked opinions on the propriety of cutting off all Prize and Charity students gratuities for this misdemeanor. The general opinion seemed to be that the other students ought to suffer as well as these, and that it was not fair to discriminate. 3. Read list of studies for next session which was approved. 4. Read "Order of Examination" which was approved. Adjourned. 
Saturday March 26, 1859. At. 8 o'clock to Albany. 1. Left with C. Thomas, Member of Assembly for Schenectady County, the Annual Report of Treasurer of U. C. to be presented to the Legislature. 2d. Called on Judge A. D. Robinson to inquire about the title of the Gibbons Estate of West Troy, 40 leases from which are owned by Un. Coll. He pronounces the title good. It seems that the property was purchased by Gibbons about 50 years ago from some old Dutch families. At 2.45 P.M. started for home. 
Sunday March 27, 1859. In forenoon attended Baptist Ch. and heard Mr. Day preach upon the duties of parents to their households. In P. 
M. with wife to 2nd Dutch and heard Dr. Hickok on the subject of truth. 1st. He maintained that truth could not be influenced by mans endeavors. 2nd. that it could not be hindered by his opposition. He treats his subjects in a clear and thoughtful manner; but is very wordy, expressing the same idea in many different ways . He is not stric[t]ly an orator, nor a popular preacher, yet educated men as well as others like to hear him. 
Monday March 28, 1859. Fine day with south wind. Examinations(?) commence today and close tomorrow night ! Two days for the whole college. Dr. Jacob Van Vechten and Rev. Ch. H. Taylor are here on examining committee. Heard my own two divisions of Sophomore class in Algebra from 3 to 5 P. M. Dr. Van Vechten says that the approaching Commencement is the 50th anniversary of his graduation and that it is proposed to call a meeting of his class to notice the occasion with some appropriate exercises. Rain. 
Tuesday March 29, 1859. Rain this afternoon, clear at 10 o'clock P. 
M. Dr. Nott went to Albany last night to see Mr. Benj. Tibbits who lies dangerously ill, and Mrs. Nott today went to Troy to visit her aunt "Mercy" who is near her end, a very aged woman. This day appeared 
a new College paper called "Concordia" published by Philomathean 
Society. It is a neat 8 pp. quarto and like its predecessors will die a 
natural after two or three numbers for want of nourishment. Saw Dr. 
Nott several times today; he seems depressed and sick: probably 
this arises from the sickness of his stepson Tibbits &c. 
Wednesday March 30, 1859. Busy, very busy all day getting busi.

ness in such a state that I can leave tomorrow for New York. 
Dr. and Mrs. Nott left this morning to attend the funeral of her Aunt Mercy Sheldon, and returned this evening. During the afternoon he had sent him here a telegram from Mr. Benj. Tibbits family asking him to go to Albany this evening; accordingly he went off in the 7.30 train. We learn from the papers of the death of Mr. Jacob L. Lane of Troy, a graduate of U. C. and a former trustee, at the age of 65. Funeral tomorrow. .
A few days since I gave some account of the "Old Academy Building," corner of Ferry and Union Street, now nearly demolished. Upon a stone near the ground in southeast corner I find the following incriptions evidently cut by the builders or workmen. The letters are probably the initials of their names: 
HK((1787*]) DVM AT.B. MA WP 1785 M.Tyms (a teacher in the school): west corner, all on one line. The first date I am not quite sure of; the second is plain. There are some other letters below on the same stone but it is so decayed as to prevent their being read 
Brooklyn N.Y. Thursday March 31, 1859. Wife and self started this morning at 
9.30 A. M. for New York and came through to Brooklyn at 5.15 P. M. without any incident worth relating. The day has been pleasant tho' windy. Found our friend F. J. Hosford's family well. 
Green and Hunter Points and New York. Friday April 1, 1859. The wind continues with great force, and is exceedingly annoying to folks obliged to go upon the streets. After breakfast, started for Greenpoint by the horse railroad on which rode about S miles and walked about half a mile farther to the office of Crane and Ely on Hunter Point where found H. S. Anable, their agent and bookkeeper. This visit is made at the request of our Resident á Trustees, including Doctor Nott, to learn something of the nature of [the] property, the manner of keeping accounts and whatever else may be necessary for the protection of the interests of Union College. 
The history of this. real estate operation is this. About 27 years ago Dr. Nott had associated with him a man by the name of Captain Bliss (now living near Hunter Point) --. his right-hand man in his unsuccessful experiments upon a steamboat called the "Novelty." This Bliss was a speculating, visionary man with considerable shrewdness withal and was partner with Dr. N. in all the land purchases which he made both on the New York side as well as in the Long Island side of the East River. First Bliss bought the "Cove" property of the Stuyvesant family for $7,000 dollars and afterwards sold the same in parts to Dr. Nott. This purchase may be considered the only fortunate speculation the Dr. ever entered into: it has kept him afloat for many years while making his other and invariably losing investments. If money was wanted, a slice of the "Cove" property would bring it, because the growth of the city enhanced its value and called it into market. 
Soon after the "Cove" purchase, Mr. Jonathan Crane, now for some years one of the partners in the Hunter Point property, saw the prospective value of the Green and Hunter Point property, said to Bliss as if by accident that he had up his mind to invest some money in this land and pointed out to him how he should proceed to improve it. It appears that the thing also struck B. favorably, for he at once said that he was about to purchase the same property for Dr. Nott (altho' it came out afterwards that neither he nor Dr. N. had ever a thought of the subject). Then, said Crane, if Dr. N. is negociating for a purchase, I shall not interfere, for I will not stand in his way, altho' I consider it one of the happiest ideas I ever had for making a fortune. Bliss then set to work and purchased the land on both sides of the Creek. He quarrelled with the Dr. and little or nothing was done upon the property for 20 years, till 1852 when Dr. N. sold 2/3 of the property to Crane and Ely for $150,000, reserving 1/3 for himself, which in 1853 he deeded to Union College in trust, reserving to himself the entire management of the College interest in the same; but in 1857 C[rane] and E[ly], becoming embarrased, deeded over to 
U. C. absolutely 1/3 part of the property which deeds were recorded, thus throwing the responsibility directly upon the Trustees of College. Up to the time of the recording of these deeds, the title of the property was in C. and E. for conveni[e]nce in selling; they have both put their property out of their hands and the present legal owners are S. K. Ely (son of the former owners) 4/9, Judson 1/9 and Union College 3/9. 
Saturday April 2, 1859. Fine quiet day. Started [with] wife for Hunter Point at 9.30. A. M. At 11 o'clock Mr. Anable started with me to make a tour of the company's grounds. 1. The general feature[s] of these grounds are flat, low, and swampy: nothing more nor less th salt marshes, lying cheifly on Newtown Creek, which is navigable for sloops 4 or 5 mles from the Point on [the] East River. The few prominent points near at hand have been levelled down to raise the land on East River. Earth for filling is now distant and scarce; this is the main objection to the whole property. It is now mainly too low to build on as it and the material for raising it will cost too much. 
2. 
From the slight elevation of this land above tidewater it can never be sought for a building site for any but the cheapest class of tenement houses. No cellars can be dug and even cellar kitchens two feet below the surface are filled with water in spring. The land therefore is mainly fitted for factories and chemical works of various kinds, and the East River front is mainly used for that purpose. 

3. 
This property was bought in parcels at various times: the principal [pieces?] were the "Griffing, Provost, Devoe, Hunter and Van Alst farms and meadows" --amounting in all to more than 400 acres, of which I should judge that more than 7 /8 was salt-marsh. The East River front is quite narrow and mostly sold already; the Newtown Creek front is more extensive, but is still in a state of nature and quite unfit for building purposes. 

4. 
What are the disadvantages of this property? Some of them have already been hinted at: it is low and unfit for buildings, and earth is scarce to build up the land. It is now almost isolated, having hardly any direct connection with New York and cut off by a toll bridge from Brooklyn, a nuisance which should be abated at once inasmuch as one of the proprietors (Mr. Crane) owns the toll bridges. It is expected that within a month or two a ferry with 34th. Street, New York will be opened and by the 1st of August a new Avenue 100 ft. wide will be graded from Hunter Point to Flushing; also that the Long Island Railroad will alter its termination from Brooklyn to H[unter] Point in all this year. When all these improvement[s] are made, it is hoped this property will come into market and be in some demand. 

5. 
Of mistakes doubtless there are some. (1) It is questionable whether so much swamp land a mile back from East River and a long way from Newton Creek also, can ever be of great profit. (2.) The proprietors should long ago [have] bent their energies to getting better connections with New York and Brooklyn. (3) They should not have suffered a $80,000 debt to remain against the property while making a $90,000 dollar dividend. The consequence has been that the property is much in need of money to meet interest and current expenses and, should'nt sales soon be made, there will be danger of discredit and embarrasment ( 4) Crane and Ely's failure and assignment have done the property much harm and thrown a damper over the whole affair, for the business is still carried on in their names. (6) The whole business wants life, a smart business man to lead off and give it vitality, to urge sales and invite buyers, to influence the attention of manufacturers and capitalists. More anon. 
Sunday April 3, 1859. All day rain and drizzle and cold east wind. In house all day. Yesterday morning our friend F. J. H. and wife left for Phila. and south as far as Richmond on a visit after a minister for the Dutch Ch. lately occupied by Dr. Bethune. 
Monday April 4., 1859. All day at the "Point" with Mr. C[rane] alone, Mr. Anabel being absent in New York. C[rane] is a very talkative, communicative man on all subjects of business, whether of himself or others. On this point in his character ----"----has frequently remarked with some displeasure; and well he might, for no two persons are more unlike in this respect than himself and C[rane]. Both carry their characteristics to excess. Perhaps no man knows more of ----"----'s private business for the past 30 years than Crane, and when he gets a willing listener of the right stamp he does not hesitate to communicate freely. Today he went over in detail the many unfortunate and wild speculations of----"----by which he has fooled away hundreds of thousands of dollars upon untrusty agents whose characters the most simple person might have read with the utmost facility. C[rane] places foremost amongst these rogues Bliss, Blydenburg and Bradford, by each of whom in spite of repeated warnings ----"----lost great sums and was brought repeatedly to the brink of bankruptcy. In round numbers they are given as follows: 
Bliss in the steamboat Novelty, $300,000. Blydenburg, 70,000. Bradford, in a Bristol copper mine, 300,000, d[itt]o in Mining Machinery, 60.000. [Total] $730,000. 
Other lesser losses: Rev. Calvin Pepper, in wild schemes $20,000. H. Nott & Co., Canada lands 80,000. Perkiomen Copper Mine 120,[000]. Lowber, N[orth] C[arolina] gold mine 145,000, d[itt]o Bald Mt. lime 120.000. [Total] $485,000. [Grand Total} $1,215,000. 
These are by no means all his losses if C[rane] is right. How then did he .get so much to lose? Answer: from the lotteries originally and afterwards from the II Cove property" and from the sale to C[rane] and E[ly] of the Green and Hunter Point property from which he obtained over $200,000 in cash and notes. It is evident that C[rane] feels not altogether satisfied with ----"----'s conduct towards him. He thinks the latter has tried in various ways to drive a 
¥ 
-r
hard bargain with him and take to himself the lions share of the profits. 
So far did----"----go latterly as to propose that C[rane] should give back to him all the Point property on payment of costs and expenses!! Now that it has been got into something like a reasonable state for profit thro' the labor cheifly of C[rane], C[rane] says he felt indignant and with the utmost emphasis said "No! Never! I'll fight you from the rising to the setting sun before you shall do me such injustice." I observe also another fact, that C[rane] and A[nabel] are not perfectly agreed with each other. C[rane] wants to get rid of A[nabel and A. wants to get rid of C. Each desires the sole management of the property. It is evident that some change must be effected: C. and E. having no longer any legal title to the property and being also bankrupt apparently, it is not creditable that their names should any longer stand at the head of the concern. C[rane] of himself on Saturday proposed that the whole should be made over into the hands of the Treasurer of Un. Coll. in trust for all the parties concerned, that he alone should issue deeds of conveyance and that the owners should hold scrip or ev.idence of ownership in the property in proportion to his present interest into it , and that this scrip should be received as well as cash and bond and mortgage in payment for lots. C[rane] says this plan suits him the better the more he thinks of it: and he intends to propose it to ----"----when he comes down. I doubt if it will meet with his approbation because it contemplates the dismissal of A[nabel] whereas ----"----hopes to get rid of C[rane] and retain A[nabel. 
In the whole, I do not like the position of things here; it does appear that Judson and Ely, the owners (in law) of 619th, [do not] take much interest in the property directly: neither does the College; and everything is left to C[rane] and A[nabel], who are jealous of each other. It is certainly true that one man is for the present sufficient --so long as no more work in grading is required; it is also true that C[rane] is no business man; and it is doubtful if A[nabel] is fit for much more than a bookkeeper. I am doubtful, therefore, if either is every way fitted for the agency. But then if this be so, who is to take the lead in the unpleasant task of informing them so? C [rane] has done the dirty work of the firm, and shall he be discharged? I doubt if that will be allowed. Again will ----"---.adhere to A[nabel] because he knows he is in his and College interest and is a fair book keeper? 
During the morning the contractors to build the Avenue to Flushing came in; today they are making preparations to begin at once upon the work. 

In the morning before going to Hunter Point, went with wife to call upon Miss Cynthia Sheldon, sister of Mrs. Nott, at Rev. C. W. Anables in Gates Avenue, Brooklyn. 
Tuesday April 5, 1859. After an early breakfast started for the Point and arrived at 8.30. Found Mr. C[rane] at the office ready to begin his conversation about financial matters. He spoke first of the amount that ----"----received from C. & E. for 2/3 of all the property at the two "points." 1. They paid him aboutJan.1. '53 for the 2/3 of Hunter Point property $142,000. 2. for 2/3 of Griffing farm etc, Green Point, 70,000, and from others 17 .000. Total $229,000. If therefore C. & E. paid $212,000 for 2/3 of this property, its total value must have been: $212,000 [for] 2/3, $70,000 [for] 1/3 = $282,666. 3. Add also the Van Alst farm afterwards bo't. $50,200. [Total] $332,866. This cannot be far from the estimated worth of the property, for when the Green Point Mutual Building and Land Company was formed in 1853 (?), the property was put in at a price double of its cost when C. and E.bought [it] of Dr. N., which was called $650,000. 
C[rane] says that when this association was formed----"---.endeavoured to get a still farther advance from C. & E. over and above what C. & C. had paid, and in excuse for this demand he said to 
C. that the property had been sold to them (C. & E.) too cheap, intimating that he had been urged by C[rane] to take this underprice: whereas C. says ----"----has it under ----11----'s hand; that it was only by repeated urgings that he (C.) consented to enter upon this undertaking. C. has some misgivings at the present state of this property; altho nominally managed by C. and E., still it is legally held by L. K. Ely,_Judson and Trustees of U. C. The failure of C. & E. has destroyed faith in the firm and thrown discredit upon the undertaking. C[rane] therefore sees that something is necessary to give faith and credit to the concern. Moreover, he says truly, if one of the partners dies a partition must be forced which just now would be disastrous. His proposal therefore is that the property should be deeded over into the hands of the Trustees of Un. Coll. in Trust for the owners, whose evidence of ownership shall be represented by scrip distributed to each in proportion to each one's share in the property. Deeds are therefore to be given for lots at an apprized value by the Treas. of U. C. and this scrip taken in payment. 
He went over to see Dr. Nott in N. Y. today and told his plan much to the Dr's approval. (so he says). To this plan there are several objections. 1. Can the Treasurer hold such an amount of property, and hold it in Trust for other parties and for purposes 
,..
foreign to those of a College? I doubt it. 2. Can strict justice be done to all parties by this plan? For instance, if one should elect to hold on to his scrip until all the others had sold out theirs and the lots were all taken up which these represent, would the last party cho[o]sing lots get as valuable a consideration for his scrip as the others? This of course would depend entirely upon the correctness of the valuation of the lots for which the scrip was issued and upon the same proportionate rise in value of all parts of the property, which surely can never be. It is not possible for any man to judge correctly of the future rise in value of this property, hence if a shrewd party should make an early push for the best lots (altho' of greater price) and those along the water front and main street, he would be likely to find his advantage in it and get the start of his associates. 
3d. Suppose on valuing the lots, whether high or low, and an equal amount of scrip be issued, in case the lots sold for more than the valuation, all the scrip would be used up before the property was sold, in which either a new valuation and scrip must be made or the property be divided among whom? Perhaps the original owners had parted with all their scrip to second hands and these to third hands and so on. Now if a final division is to be made, to whom is it to be made? To the first or later owners of scrip? Again, in case some lots were valued too high and could not be sold at the set price, either the scrip holders must take them at the valuation, in which case they would lose; or, if sold by the Trustees, for less than value set upon them, enough would not be realised to take up all the scrip and again some one must be the loser. 
At one o'clock P. M. Mrs. U. E. Nott came over from New York, having left the Doctor sick of a cold at C. N. Potter's. He wants to see Mr. Crane, Anable, and myself. The first went over immediately and returned at 4 o'clock; the second goes over tonight and I shall call on him in the morning early. Poor old man! It is sad at his time of life to find him so cumbered with cares and entanglements of business. And, notwithstanding all his tremendous exertions to make a great fortune greater, all his efforts have been futile; loss has followed upon loss and his promised splendid endowment for U. C. has fallen down to a doubtful real estate speculation, whose value is altogether prospective and far in the future. While working nominally for College, he was in reality laboring for himself and for a set of rascal[s] whom he made his agents and tools in spite of advice and entreaties to the contrary. 
Tuesday April 5, 1859. On thinking over this business from all sides and in view of the danger [of] a partnership quarrel and consequent delay and losses to College, I am strongly of the opinion that U. C. should call for a division of at least the graded part of the property and manage her portion in her own way. There are not so great objections to this now as at first, and these are becoming daily less. The principal are the debts of the company and the contract with the Long Island R. Road Company. The latter obstacle, it is hoped, will be out of the way in August when probably the blocks which they need will be taken --if not by them, then by the Flushing 
R.R. Co. 
Busy much of the day making abstracts of statements and collecting facts from the company's books. Find Anable's books well kept, and his business trim and snug. There is only more money needed to work with: the division of the $90,000 bonds and mortgages in 1859 has very much crippled the company, now tim~s are so dull and sales so small. Mr. C. also complains that ----"---.promised in 1853 to advance money for the Co. to work with but, instead of doing so, fooled it away in wild-cat speculations and on moonshine projects. C's intention was to advance a little money to whomsoever would purchase lots to enable them to erect buildings, taking back a mortgage and fire-insurance policy as security. This is the very common plan of such operations in New York and works well for the rapid settlement of new territory. For the want of this encouragement, the sales have been few and consequently low. 
On the whole, from a few days conversations with C[rane] and A[nabel] and an inspection of the grounds and their capabilities, I am considerably disappointed in my hope for an early and large income for U.C. The water lots will sell readily for factories so soon as business revives, but the back lots are of. slower sale for tenant and mechanics houses, because the land is flat, low, and wet. A large debt of $80,000 must first be paid off. Expensive docks and fillings are required .&c. Still with my country notions perhaps I am not capable of judging rightly of the rapid spread of New York and its environs, and of the fabulous value put on every foot of ground within 5 miles 
. of City Hall. 
Wednesday April 6, 1859. Windy and dusty. According to promise, 
started this morning for New York to see Judge Paige and Dr. Nott. 
Before leaving home I made an appointment to call on Judge P. at the 
St. Nicholas Hotel on Tuesday or Wednesday --by letter received last 
night he informed me that he might be seen there this morning. 
Found him, talked some minutes on Hunter Point matters and left. 
At 9.30 called on Dr. Nott at C. N. Potter's, 116 E. 21. Street. When I 
went to the Dr's. room, found him sitting up and Mr. Blatchford with him. He told me he had a shocking cold and does nothing but blow 
and sneeze. I said, "Dr., you must be sick when you give up." Mr. 
Blatchford answered, "Oh no, the Dr. is not going to give up; he will 
soon be better." 
The conversation then turned upon the Alumni Hall and Mr. B. 
said you must go forward with the foundation as fast as you can, get 
out the stones, buy the floor timbers, water table &c. and carry the 
wall up to the first floor. If the expense comes up to $1,500 or over, 
I will see that it is paid. Dr. Nott made suggestions about the cross 
walls which are not represented in Edw. T. Potter's plan, and Mr. B. 
said the outer wall could go on without them: and that the architect 
would be back by the 1st of May and would see to them. He said also 
that he hoped that the walls would go higher than the first floor. Dr. 
Nott then said he hoped the Alumni Association this year would not 
admit the Undergraduates to their meeting or collation, that it gave a 
boyish and somewhat rowdy character to the meeting. Mr. B. said he 
agreed with him and that his wishes should be complied with. 
Mr. B. then left and the Dr. and myself continued the 
conversation cheifly about the Hunter Point property, which he 
prophecies will become a very great and valuable estate for Union 
College. He says that no more expense should be laid out upon the 
property for some time -until at least $300,000 to $400,000 worth 
of the graded lots have been sold, and therein he is undoubtedly 
right. The Dr. then told me to look over matters thoroughly and get 
an insight into the business of the company. Shortly Judge A.W. Bradford came in to see Dr. N. He also urged forward the foundation of Alumni Hall, saying that they had already more than enough for . that purpose. The exclusion of undergraduates from the alumni 
meeting also met Judge B's views. Mr. Sewards name was mentioned. 
Dr. Nott. "Seward is a great man and almost never makes an unwise speech. He made a great mistake, however, in his late Senate speech on the right-of-search question." Judge B. "Dr. [Backus?] couldnt get Seward to come down to Commencement. If he didnt say anything, his bare presence would draw." Dr. N. "I'll try him --he always does as I tell him. He has gained much in popularity of late and his chances are bettering for the presidency, dont you think they are?" Judge B. "Yes comparatively his chances are good, but absolutely they are nothing." 
Dr. N. Seward has always been a consistent liberty man; he has 
never swerved from his first principles. Before Blatchford left, Dr. N. [had] said, "You must get some good speakers for your next meeting." 
B. "That's Edmonds business. I dont know what he has done unless he is going to speak himself. He would attract an audience in spite of his spiritual tomfoolery. Did you [read] his letter in the Tribune a week or so ago? A finely written article it was, too -terse, clear, vigorous, to the point --like the charge of a judge to jury. I did not know that E. could write so well." 
Mrs. Nott came in and the Dr. said he must go out to see Pepper (Rev. Calvin) and Blydenburg, both of whom owe him money. But Mrs. N. and self urged him not to do so in his present state of health as it would be rash in the extreme. 
Went thence to 116 E. 32d. St. and called upon Misses Mary and Gertrude Martin, who formerly resided in Schenectady; to Tenth St; ferry and to Hunter Point and resumed my investigation of books and accounts. Informed Mr. Crane that I had conversed with Dr. N. about his scrip project (see yesterday) and that he approved of it, provided it could be lawfully done. Dined with Mr. C[rane] and resumed my investigations. 
Thursday April 7, 1859. Cool but not so dusty as yesterday. With wife at 9 A.M. to New York by Fulton Ferry and 'Bus. 1. to Arnold and Constable's Dry Goods' Store, corner of Canal and Mercer Streets, where spent an hour looking up wearables. 2. by 3d. Avenue horse R. Road up to 3 2d street ( 116 East) and left wife to visit for the day [with] our old friends, Misses Mary and Gertrude Martin. 3. Started back down town to 129 W. 13th street to call upon Prof. Gillespie at 12 o'clock. Not in. 4. Thence down 13th Street to East River for the purpose of looking up those lots upon which Un. Coll. holds mortgages. These are as follows: ( 1) 3 9 lots bounded by 16th and 17th Sts. and Ave. C. for $10,000; these are filled in but not built upon and are worth at least $1.500 each. 2. Pat. Fagan, 2 lots cor. 15th St. and Ave. C. for $2,000, two brick houses. Lots alone worth at least $4,000. (3) 3 lots on 15th. St. next to Manhattan Gas. Co., mortgage for $3,200 foreclosed and two already sold and bought in by Un. Coll. --nearly filled up to the grade of street, no buildings, formerly owned by Jno. Sullivan who says they are worth at least $1,500 ea. (4) Murphy and Smith lot, corner Ave. B. and 15th., mortgage $2,000, value $3,000, no buildings, next to a stable and therefore injured by it for a dwelling lot. (5) G. Berger's lot on 14th. near Ave. B., mortgage $1540, Butchers slaughter house upon it, value say $4,000, so B. says. (6) W. Winterton lot near Ave. C. on 14 St., vacant, nearly filled, worth $1700 to $2,000; W[interton] is reputed wealthy and a respectable man. (7) 8 lots now owned by n D. Badger & Co., called Architectural Iron Works, buildings on 5 of them worth $50,000 or more, two occupied as a store yard and worth $2,500 each. This Co. is doing a large business and reputed rich. 
All the property in this section of the city is valuable for factories and lower class of dwellings: the Manhattan Gas Co. has injured it much for the latter purpose. It is wholly made ground being docked out into East River. At the present time Mr. Lowber is filling the ground above 17th Street from the sweepings of streets. 
Having seen all that I desired about this region, took 3d Av. 
R. R. and rode down to the City Hall. Visited Tax Commissioners office and found that Sullivans lots (3, made into 2 of 25 ft. and 29 ft. ea.) are assessed for $1,500 each. Thence to S. T. Freeman's office, 111 Nassau St., to talk with him about selling the above lots. Not in. Thence to 32 Nassau St. to see Mr. R. M. Blatchford about the Alumni Hall. Not in. Thence to 11 Maiden Lane to see Aug. á W. Sexton, Manufg. Jeweller, who married my cousin Ann Libbey, not in. Back to 116 E. 32d St. to Misses Martin's, took a lunch and with wife over to Brooklyn where arrived at 7 o'clock, tired and dirty from this day's tramp .._ 
Friday April 8, 1859. At nine o'clock had a call from Prof. Wm. M. Gillespie in Brooklyn and soon after started with him to make some calls in N. York. 
1. 
Spent an hour with him in Blunts Nautical instrument store in Water Street looking at transits, sextants, &c&c. Among other things Mr. B. showed us his automatic dividing engine and gave me pamphlet describing it with plates. 

2. 
Spent another hour in Stackpole and Brother's shop, looking at their engineer's instruments, which have a good reputation for neatness and accuracy. 

3. 
Another hour and half at the American Express building in Hudson street where saw Alex. Holland, L. H. Willard and Danl. Butterfield. 4, Called upon R. M. Blatchford at his office, 32 Nassau St. with Prof. Gillespie, to talk over the matter of the Alumni Hall. I said that I did not wish to take any responsibility in this matter and desired that a consulting committee might be appointed in Schenectady to give advice in case of doubts, &c&c. Mr. B. said that Edwd. Potter would be home about May 1 and would be up immediately thereafter to give instructions: that in the meantime stones might be got out and drawn upon the ground, the trench dug, water brought to the spot, the drain dug and made etc. As I was leaving, Mr. B. remarked that he would send me money as fast as wanted. 


5. Prof. G. left and went up town and I alone sauntered up Broadway dropping in here and there as curiosity prompted. At Pike's, bought spring tortoise-shell spectacles, lunched at Taylors and back to Brooklyn at 6. P. M. Tomorrow we hope to leave for Hudson. 
6. Called on Aug. W. Sexton No. 11 Madison Lane and then met my cousin Ann, his wife. She is daughter of my mother's brother, William Libbey, who about 45 years since emigrated from New Hampshire (Chichester) and settled at Newburgh, N. Y. By trade he is a carpenter. His first wife, the mother of his children, was a Lauder(?) of Salem, Mass. where he learned his trade and wrought; by a second marriage he had one daughter Mary, a teacher in N. Y. City. As age came on and his children married, he broke up his housekeeping and has spent some years past with his children. His wife is sometimes with him and sometimes with her friends. She has some peculiarities of temper and disposition which make it difficult for her to live with her husband or with his children. His children now living are: ( 1) William, sometimes a merchant but prostrated by the crash of 1857. He married a Miss Marsh of Mississippi where he has spent the past winter. 
(
2) Ann who married Aug. W. Sexton, a man ufacturing jeweller of the firm of Baldwin, Sexton & Co. á 

(
3) Sarah, who married Pembroke, a carpenter. She keeps a boarding house in New York City. 

(
4) Elizabeth, a maiden in poor health, living with Ann. 

(5) 
Rachael(?) who married Morse, a Baptist Minister now settled in New Jersey. 

(6) 
Mehitable, died many years since, unmarried. 


HudsonN.Y. Saturday April 9, 1859. Cold and windy and dusty. We started this morning homeward, taking Hudson on the way, for a flying visit with Sister Magoun. With wife an hour at Stewart's Dry Goods Palace in Broadway, New York, and at 11 o'clock started up the Hudson by Hudson River R. Road, arriving at Hudson at 3 o'clock. Few railroads present so many charming views as this --the river and its pretty villages, wild scenery, vessels &c. are in sight all the way and keep ones eyes busy all the way. Found Magoun's family well. 
Sunday April 10, 1859. At home all day. Read a sketch of the life of Mr. E. Stuart Phelps, author of "Sunny Side," also some pages in Dr. VanVechtens' life of Dr. Jno. U. Mason, a truly great man, full of genius and of faults; as usual, however, in biographies, the latter are concealed and the subject is made perfect. This fact leads one to doubt the facts stated: for truth concealed purposely is as much a lie as truths misstated. It is not an honest way to write personal history; 
it is not trustworthy and genders doubts and mistrust. 
If common fame ( unwritten) be true, Dr. M. was addicted to the bottle and I have heard well-authenticated stories of his officiating in religious services when under the influence of liquor. I should consider him also a worldly man, too fond of high society, conviviality, and pomp. What then! would you have his son-in-law, Dr. V. V., detail these things in his father's biography? Perhaps not. Then he was not capable of writing this life aright. Some allusion[s] to his weak points were certainly as much demanded of the writer as his display of his virtues and greatness. For want of this frankness I doubt what he has written, I know not what coloring he may not have given to this history in his partiality; I do not feel safe a moment in his hands; even those letters of Dr. M. may have beep tinkered and pruned to make things look fair. He has evidently chosen those mostly that have a sort of official character and that are as void of Masonic points as one of the Dr's. theological lectures. The few strictly private and unclerical letters give a pleasing view of his character and temper. On the whole, I consider the work heavy, commonplace, uninteresting as a piece of book-work and much in the style of Dr. V. V. 's sermons. 
Read also the "New York Observer" that huge "bed-blanket" -.the champion of orthodoxy, conservatism, and admirer of men in high position. As to ability, it is quite mediocre. Prime writes up two things --himself and all notabilities, if they be not abolitionists. His praise is fulsome and without stint or taste. His letters every time he leaves town are like the panegyrics of a diner-out. He pays his way apparently by a liberal dose of praise. The Observer has no character; it is evidently the policy [of] its managers to give it none, but to trim its sails so as to catch all winds, and give offence only to the least influential classes. á 
Monday April 11, 1859. Rain all day. In looking over VanVechten's á life of Dr. Mason I was struck with the comparison that the latter makes b~tween Washington and Hamilton on the occasion of the fatal duel in 1804. In a letter to a correspondent in Scotland dated Aug 11, 1824, Dr. M. says, "I say nothing too strong when I assure you that, all things considered, the loss of Washington was light in comparison with this." This remark was not lightly made. Dr. M. knew Hamilton well and was conversant with the leading characters of the Revolution and the politics of the day. It is a sentiment which no one who thinks closely and deliberately can help arriving at. Washington had no genius, either for war or the arts of peace; when I say this it is no discredit to the man, who was endowed with great good sense, moderation, and virtue. Few men in his station could have so restrained his passions and ambition. Hamilton was the leading genius and spirit of the new Government as Washington's secretary; no matter what may be said to the contrary, he doubtless wrote most of the General's dispatches and letters and gave form and consistency to the crude ideas floating at the time of the Constitution by his admirable political essays and letters. 
Dr. VanVechten speaks also of Drs. Mason and Nott in connection with the endowments of Columbia and Union Colleges. They both appeared in Albany in March 1814 to solicit aid from the Legislature in favor of these two institutions. Dr. M. obtained the grant of the Elgin Botanical Garden, now worth perhaps $500,000, and Dr. N. obtained a grant by lotteries of $200,000 for Un. Coll., in addition to which he has made a further gift of $600,000 from his own means! This latter assertion is made with all that lo[o]seness which a clergyman is expected to show in financial matters. Truth is truth --and it is wrong that a man great or small should receive and accept praise which neither belongs to him by right or by law. Dr. V. 
V. here writes doubtless what he believes to be truth, yet he does not make it so. 
The fact is, as Judge Linn once said to me, Dr. Nott owes much to Union College and Un. Coll owes much to Dr. N. --the obligation is mutual, for without U. C. the Dr. could never [have] had any money from lotteries and without Dr. N. perhaps U. C. could not have obtained her large grants. There are few men who, having the opportunities for making money under the guise of a literary Institution, would not have assumed all the labor, hazard and risk which Dr. N. says he did; for every dollar that U. C. made, E. N. made three which, altho' he professed to bestow upon the College or "some kindred institution," it never received, nor ever will receive. Had Yates, Macintyre and Nott not covered their lottery transactions under the guise of charity and the endowment of religious and literary institutions, the State would not have tolerated them one moment, and the letters on file in the Treas. Office of U. C. show that, long before the lotteries stopped, it was considered by the Managers a very necessary and vital expedient to make the public believe that all the profits would insure not to private but to public good. (1) As to risk, much is said by Dr. N. and repeated on all occasions about the hazards run by him in sustaining the credit of Yates and McIntyre by borrowing $100,000 of Wm. James of Albany. In this transaction College run the whole risk, Dr. N. none. College paid the debt and interest as it became due and pledged its credit and $60,000 of 
,,_. 
Mohawk Bank stock for the loan. So with all the other loans ----"---.professed to have been made for U. C. on private risk and hazard, the Institution was abundantly able to meet those obligations by its assets and, however often Dr. N. as a matter of form endorsed a Treasurer's note for the borrowing of money, he never thereby assumed any risk. This kind of pretense for drawing credit to himself should never be made; it is unworthy of an honorable and frank man. 
(2) 
As to [the] amount given to U. C. Nothing has been given to U. C. by Dr. N. The institution has never received its own, never will. Allowing his claim of all the profits of the lotteries over and above the $200,000 granted by law and ignoring U. C. 's risks, and claiming all the hazards for himself, then indeed U. C. is his debtor; but taking a fair and just view of the case and granting the College its proper proportion of the profits and by stipulations and contracts with Y[ates] and M[acintyre] and the Institution, [U. C. has been made an ass of ---she has borne burden after burden and loss after loss to assist Dr. N. in his speculations and Y. and M. in theirs, and when the day of settlement comes she receives nothing as of right and but a pittance of charity. 

(3) 
As to the amount which U.C. is said to have received. Dr. N. and his friends have made the gift $610,000. It might just as well have been called $610,000,000, for no one knows what it will be and hence it is improper to call a prospective sum by a present name. The property made over is as follows: 1. Lowber bonds and mortgages, $135.000, which were dependent for value entirely upon a lawsuit which is not yet terminated altho' $80,000 of them are now released: $80.000. 2. 1/3 part of profits of Hunter and Green Points real estate which in 1852 was worth but $106.000, for Crane and Ely bought out 2/3 of Dr. Nott, giving him at that time $212.000; his 1/3 is now worth at the most $150.000 to $180.000, judging from the prices at which C and E's shares have sold and been offered for sale within the past 3 months: $180.000. 3. Bonds and mortgages received from C. and Ely, say $25,000. 4. Estimated worth of the remainder of the Lowber bonds and mortgages drawing no interest, say ($55.000) #30,000 .Total say $300,000 [to] $315.000. 


#worth nothing 
Monday April 11, 1859. If then at this day Dr. N. has made over property worth $300,000, which he received from Y. & M. at least 25 years ago, what was the property worth then even if only simple interest be reckoned upon it? It should be remembered that Dr. N. in all his lottery profits and dealings was professedly working for U.C. only; he had no selfish ends in view. If then he received between $500,000 and $600,000 in cash from Y. and M. 25 years ago and these profits were to be made over to the Coll., what has become of the interest on this sum and the balance of the principal? But if the money were his own, had he not a right to manage as he pleased until such time as he was ready to pay it over to Coll.? Yes, if it were all his own, which none of the best lawyers of the Board, Judge P[aige] and Chanc[ellor] W. ever assented to. But if it were, and all granted, then surely the truth should be told frankly as to its worth and no fictitious value placed upon it for the purpose of making the charity appear the greater. 
Tuesday April 12, 1859. The total value of the Nott Trust Fund as stated over-the-leaf is $315.000. From this, however, should be deducted one third of the mortgaged debts of $80,000 which amounts to say $27.000, leaving a net amount of $288.000 After all it cannot be denied that the College will eventually get a handsome sum from this property, if not so much as was anticipated by its friends or as promised by Dr. N., who in~oubtedly hoped to make it more by his rash speculations. 
Why then find fault if the endowment does fall short of the published sum? Simply because truth is better than fiction and in the long run is the best policy, both for corporations and for individuals. This immense endowment for U. C. has been industriously announced to the world and believed, and in consequence of this it becomes next to impossible to raise by subscription the paltry sum of $20,000 for the Alumni Hall. Mr. Duryea is everywhere met with the answer, "U. 
C. has an endowment of $610,000, why then do you ask for more so soon?" Moreover they likewise say, "If Dr. N. is to have anything to do with it, we will give nothing." This latter objection is the result of the Senate investigation which, altho' it terminated apparently in an acquittal of Dr. N. ,really left the impression upon the minds of the community that he had managed the money matters of U. C. loosely and, some think and even say, for his own benefit. Herein doubtless they are mistaken; the worst that can be said of him is that he acted for College just as he did for himself --rashly and carelessly, trusting to irresponsible agents and making hasty and insecure investments that mixed his own and College affairs together .... 
Tuesday April 12, 1859. ...and that, as is his nature, he kept the money matters of College too close, when a clear and detailed statement would have roused the Trustees to act more by themselves and less thro' him. Herein lies his great error in management. His own affairs it was his right to keep secret; but not those of College. His maxim that "Everything is done by one man" is as false as that many men can do nothing. Acting upon this principle, he left as little for the Trustees to do as possible; their meetings were reduced to one a year of a few hours duration; and their knowledge of the true state of College was only what he was pleased to place before them. 
Union College Wednesday April 13, 1859. The first warm day of the season. At 10 o'clock started from Hudson for home where we arrived at 12 o'clock and found all our family well. 
My principal business this afternoon was to consult Judge Paige about a very singular and unexpected letter from R. W. Lowber to Mr. James Brown (of firm of Brown Bros. and Co.), a copy of which was transmitted to the Treasurer by him (J[ames] B[rown]). 
To make this paper intelligible, it is necessary to say that on Dec. 1, 1853 R. W. Lowber gave Dr. Nott a bond and mortgage for $40,000 on a block in New York bounded by 16th andl 7th Sts., Avenue C, and East River. On the same day Dr. N. assigned it to the Trustees of U. C. as a part of the Nott Trust Fund. Subsequently Mr. 
R. L[owber] sold this block to the City of N. Y. and, to perfect title, it became necessary to have this mortgage removed and to do so, the proper papers were sent to Jas. Brown with the charge to deliver up the mortgage only upon payment of the principal and interest. Mr. B[rown] made his own arrangements of the business, taking it is presumed security for the payment of the $40,000. Mr. Lowber now sends to Mr. Brown this paper before alluded to, in which he pronounces the aforesaid mortgage unoperative and void and forbids him to pay the same out of any moneys that may come into h,is hands from the securities that he (Brown) holds. Judge P[aige] at once pronounces the whole scheme a piece of rascality by which L[owber] hopes to do the College out of $40,000. I said that perhaps Dr. N. could explain the matter and proposed to go to Albany at once to see him, to which Judge P. assented. 
Mr. Benj. Tibbits, Dr. N. 's stepson, now lies at the point of death; for more than a fortnight he has been sick and Dr. and Mrs. N. ha[ve] been with him most of the time. 
Thursday April 14, 1859. Rain nearly all day. Started at 8 o'clock 
A.M. for Albany to see Dr. Nott on the matter of R. W. Lowber's renouncing his bond and mortgage alluded to yesterday. First called at Erastus Corning Jr's house, corner of State and Chapel Streets, where Dr. N. is staying (E. C[orning] Jr. is son-in-law of Mr. Benj. Tibbits). Not finding Dr. N. there, went to Mr. B. T. 's, corner of Hawk and Lancaster Streets. This, one of a magnificent row of houses built in Hawk St. last year by Mrs Blandina Dudley. Here found Dr. & Mrs Nott with the friends of Mr. T. assembled and waiting in momentary expectation of his death. He is much of the time in a stupor and is supposed by some to have a softening of the brain. Saw Dr. N. a few minutes in the Library. He looks pale and sick, complained of his head and of feverishness and is evidently more fit for his bed than attendance upon a sick person. Read to him Messers. Brown and Lowber's letters and asked if he knew any occasion for Mr L's. denying payment of the College claim of $40,000. He answered that he knew of no reason for it whatever. He had heard that a recent decision had affected the title to the property, but he had not seen Mr. L. lately and could not tell what he was driving at. He then said he was sick &c., and [had] been trying to get the mortgage removed to the other side (Hunter Point) for fear of some such contingency but had failed in his endeavours, &c&c. Then left the Dr., (2) Called at 121. Beaver St. upon an ill-looking dressmaker for wife. ( 3) Thence to an India Rubber store for a pair of overshoes to keep feet dry. Rain falling in torrents. ( 4) Thence to Van Benthuysen's Printery in Broadway and ordered him to print me 100 extra copies of the Treasurer's Report to the Legislature: to be done for $4.00. (5) Thence to Dunlap's Cement &c. store on the Dock to inquire the price of Rosendale cement for Alumni Hall: price 9/9 pr. barrel; thence to 
R. R. and home at 12 o'clock. (6) Called on Judge Paige and reported the result of my call upon Dr. Nott this morning. The Judge proposes to write to James Brown tomorrow on the subject. He says we have nothing to do with Mr. Lowber any longer. Mr Brown must stand in the gap inasmuch as he has delivered up the security of College to Mr. L. or to his agent without receiving the money due on it, in spite of the explict directions of the Finance Committee to that effect. (7) Called on Dr. H[ickok] and talked over College matters, financial and otherwise. 
Friday April 15, 1859. Fine clear day. To office and thence to office of Jackson & Thomson for the bond and mortgage of Harmanus Minklaer, which has been in their hands for foreclosure. Back to Treasury office, made satisfaction piece and downtown again to Daggett's office with sat[isfaction] bond and mortgage. S. A. D[aggett] has the settlement of Jno. Robison's Estate (Rotterdam), a part of which is encumbered with this mortgage .. He paid me $321.23 = Prin. 300. and bal. of interest. Thence to Scheu. Bk. and deposited this and other checks to the amount of $428.40. To Judge Paiges office to talk with him about Lowber's letter, also [to] lend a copy of the instructions sent James Brown and B. R. Wood, by Finance Committee. Borrowed of him (to copy) a copy of the instructions given to J.C. Spencer with whom certain Deeds, Bonds and Mortgages of R. W. Lowber and E. Nott were left in escrow for Nott Trust Fund. These papers are now in the hands of G. L. Wilson, executor of J. C. S[pencer]. 
While in Judge P's office Vph. came in; he is of the opinion that ----"----is knowing to this trick of R.W.L. and that it is for his benefit in part. Judge P. is to go to N. Y. next week on business and will call upon Mr. Brown for explanations and arrangement of the business if possible. I am inclined to the belief that there was some secr~t contract between ----"----and R.W.L. before or since the bonds and mortgages. were given, by which contract certain things were to be done --payments made perhaps --but which he has not found it convenient or possible to accomplish, and that in consequence of this non-fulfilment, R.W.L[owber] refuses to pay the bond and mortgage of $40,000! It is a pity that College has any connection with this man or with [Nott?] in money matters, for we never know where we stand when they are concerned in any matter of business. There is always some flaw or disagreeable contingency which weakens the securities on which we depend for income. When our tub is all finished and looks fair and servicable, the bottom falls out. 
Dr. L[ewis] and Prof. P[eissner] dropped in this afternoon and both spoke of the unmanly attack upon Dr. H's book in recitation room and before students. They think this will have a bad effect upon College, tending to make parties both among students and Professors. 
Saturday April 16, 1859. Windy and cool. The rains have so soaked the ground that it is found impossible to commence digging for the foundation of Graduates Hall, but today with C. Reagles I measured the ground with the view of laying down a sewer and drain from the Hall, also with view of leading water from the College aqueduct to the same for supplying the wants of the Mason. 
Father Harvey returned home last evening and is now preparing to keep house a few doors below me. 
Dr. and Mrs. Nott returned from Albany today where they have spent most of the last fortnight with his stepson (son of his second wife), Benj. Tibbits, who lies at the point of death. I never saw the Dr. look so pale, thin and sick since his great rheumatic attack. For more than a fortnight he has had a very severe cold accompanied with pains and fever. He complains much of being sick, a thing unusual with him, and seems at a loss to gather together his thoughts and recollect things gone by. He called for Gilbert and myself half a dozen times in the course of the afternoon and as usual when he is troubled could hardly tell what he wanted. Finally he asked me to tell him: ( 1) What was the state of his private account with College, 
(2) How much the Nott Trust Fund owed Mohawk Bank, ( 3) How much he had advanced for officers and prize scholars of Nott Trust Fund. [I] procured these statements and left him in conversation with Dr. Lewis. 
A committee of Presbyterian Church called for subscription to renovate and enlarge their house; subscribed $10. and gave as a reason for so small a sum that I had been heavily taxed for the Bapt. Church and expected to be still farther taxed. 
Sunday April 17, 1859. Fine day. With wife to the Bapt. Church and heard Rev. Mr Day speak on the duties of Church in regard to conduct, conversation &c., teaching them to avoid foolish talking, jesting, frequenting taverns &c. 
Monday April 18, 1859. Fine day. Rev. Prof. Hickok and w[ife] left this morning for Connecticut to visit their friends there for a week or so. 
At ten oclock A. M. met the School Commissioners in Union School Building (late West College) to consider and pass our yearly report to the Common Council. After which, to the Schen. Bk. and home to dinner. P. M. Called many times by Dr. Nott, who is much better, to make out statements &c. 1st. He desired a statement of the current expenditures of Nott Trust Fund. (2.) A statement of the current income of same fund. (3.) A statement of the amount of interest ctue from the bonds and mortgages of said fund. 
It is evident that these recurring sick turns vividly remind him of his approaching end. He often says life is uncertain with him. His topic of conversation this afternoon was cheifly in respect to the prospects of the ultimate endowment of College from the Hunter Point property. Of the Lowber mortgages he speaks discouragingly, and well he may. He says, "Lowber is a plag[u]y smart fellow, a hard man to deal with, but I have always found him honorable and disposed to do just as he agreed to. As to this last affair ( his renouncing his bond and mortgage) I dont know what to make of it; it is all inexplicable to me. I expected today to have some communication from Lowber, but only had a few lines from Clark Potter, who does not know much about the business. I dont want to mix in the business at all. Owing to my connection with L. formerly in business, I do not wish to do anything to anger him, for he is such a knerly [gnarly?] fellow that it is best to deal gently and kindly with him. Paige (Judge) is going down tomorrow and I have telegraphed to 
L. to call and see him at St. Nicholas (Hotel). I want to see him (P[aige] ) first and caution him as to his way of proceeding with L[owber]. It wont do to get him angry." 
I said that Judge P. had said that he held Mr. Jas. Brown alone responsible for the $40,000 as he had delivered up the mortgage to 
L. in spite of the Finance Committee's instructions to the contrary and that, as a Trustee, Mr. B[rown] was bound to look out for the interests of College and see that it received no detriment. I also said that I did not think College had much to hope for from Mr. Lowbers other bonds and mortgages of $45,000 on property above 17th Street, to which the Dr. assented as if that were a conclusion he had quite well made up his mind to. 
"However," said he, "College will have quite a large and handsome property from the other sid~ (Hunter Point). In ten years that will come into great demand. I have been working for this a long time and advancing money for it to keep Crane and Ely on their legs. I have foreseen that they would fail these 2 years and have done all I could to keep them up till College interests could be established. I have got the 34th St. Ferry there and the Long Island R. Road termination, and that great 100 ft. Flushing Avenue. Now I feel content. College has got a great property in prospect there. You all thought I was working for my own interest; at least Dr. Hickok tho't so. for he told me so --but you did not know the truth. I kept still and said nothing. I foresaw the trouble about the N. Y. property, the difficulty about the title and all that and was anxious to get the bond and mortgage removed to the other side. I got $85,000 subscribed for College. Mr. Jas. Brown, $25,000; Mr. Lowber, $25,000; Myself $25,000; and Mr. Delavan, $10,000: $85,000. Mr. D. wanted to withdraw his subscription and I assented to it and subscribed $2,000 for him. He has invested his in that fine Wheatley Cabinet which I am well pleased with." 
Strange old man! how he deceives himself with all these strange vagaries. Not a cent has he helped Crane and Ely to to keep them up, but on on the other hand, by the non-fulfilment of his promises to renew their notes and by pledging them for loans for himself past redemption, he so embarrassed them that they were forced to assign their property. Instead of helping them, therefore, he has been a dead weight upon the firm, and has taken not less than 
$8000 of the bonds and mortgages divided to the College under pretense that he had advanced that amount after his Trust Deed was executed, whereas this was paid on the Van Alst Farm before that act. The Doctor is also quite mistaken in thinking that he had anything to do with the 34th Street Ferry, with the Long Island R. R. terminus, or with the Flushing Avenue. These have been brought about without his aid and cooperation, altho' quite willing now to take the credit of them. 
Tuesday April 19, 1859. Fine day. With wife to Albany at 8 o'clock. 
My business was for the Alumni Assoc. of U. C. to purchase drain and 
sewer tiles for their Hall, now about to be commenced. Bought of 
MacCammon 500 2 1/2 in Horseshoe, and 315, 6 in. sole tiles, prices 
1 3/ 4 cts. and 8 cts. each respectively. Wife called upon Mrs. 
Cochrane, 121 Beaver St., to get a dress made, thence to various dry 
goods stores; to R. Road at 11 1/ 4 and home before 12 o'clock. 
I hear this P. M. that Mr. R. W. Lowber came up this morning to see Dr. Nott, doubtless about the matter alluded to before of the. renunciation of his bond and mortgage of $40,000 to Union College. I know nothing of this business, but cannot but think that Lowber and Dr. N. long since entered into some private contract by which on certain conditions the former was to make good his bonds now held or to be held by Union College; but that the latter having failed to fulfilled his part of the contract the former now refuses to carry out his engagements. To save Dr. N., Lowber may endeavour to clear himself by legal or technical error and, as the papers were drawn up by himself, may be able to do so. I hope I may be mistaken in this, but it looks like it. 
Wednesday April 20, 1859. Windy. Commenced this morning to lay out and dig a trench for drain and water-pipe for Graduates' Hall. This trench runs 400 feet directly southwest by NS [?] 22 ft. from Natural History Hall until it reaches the main sewer and a[c]queduct. 
The water from the acqueduct is le[a]d by a lead pipe over which is laid a sole tile for drainage thus: 
[DRAWING] 
As the ground here is very wet, this arrangement accomplishing two pur-poses, is thought to be a good one. This drain is first necessary because the water stands in a pool upon the site of "Graduate's Hall," and the water pipe is also important because no water can be found upon the spot sufficient for the masons and plasterers. The watershed from building and walk around it is to be carried off in a sewer running down in front, west, along the carriage way and terminating in the main sewer leading under the terrace into the front park. 
Dr. Nott is not well again. His jaunt to Albany yesterday to attend Mr. Tibbits funeral was too much for his feeble strength. With the weight of years he has still the pluck of middle age and thinks himself capable of enduring what he could 30 years since. 
Thursday April 21, 1859. Fine warm day. Saw Dr. Nott several times to-day and talked about various matters: among others the foundation of Graduates' Hall, which he says we must build as we think best without regard to Mr. Ewd. Potter's plans. The soil being a hard clay, he says there is no need of concrete under the foundation wall, and that the stone work must be carried well above the ground and that there must be a well-lighted cellar. All right: but these alterations in the architects plan must originate in some other person besides myself. When Natural History Hall was built, there was much diversity of opinion about the plan and interval arrangements, giving rise to fault-finding and grumbling subsequently and to grave charges against myself as tho' the fault were mine and not the building committee's. "A burnt child &c." I do not mean to be led into any assumption of responsibility in any point. 
Saw Dr. Backus this morning; he gave some account of a little difficulty which nearly gave rise to a flare-up in the Union School but which by careful management he found means to counteract. 
Friday April 22, 1859. Rain moderately all day. Sarah Harvey and son John left this P. M. for Hudson to visit Sister Magoun. Mrs. Jane Berry (Dorland), neice of Bishop Potter, of Saratoga Springs called last evening and left for home today. Graham, bookseller, called at Treasury Office this morning, and among other things spoke of the late attack upon Dr. Hickok's book by Prof. Dr. J[ackson] and of the spirit of opposition to him thus manifested. He derived his information from students with whom he is acquainted, having recently been in College himself. He says he mentioned the subject not long since to Dr. B[ackus?], who is one of the Trustees and a warm friend of [Dr. N. ?] and supposed to be none too well affected towards Dr. H., telling him that it would be a great misfortune for Dr. H. to leave College, that he was well liked by the students, many of whom would leave if he left, &c&c. Dr. B. listened as if interested and asked how he knew these things were so, but did not give any opinion himself on the subject. Prof. Dr. J[ackson] drop[p]ed in to inquire about Lowber's refusal to pay the $40,000 mortgage &c. 
Saturday April 23, 1859. Rain most of the day, till near night. After breakfast went to market, and thence to Jackson & Thomson's law office the lower end of Union Street waiting till Judge P. should get to his office. He came up from N. Y. last night and arrived at home this morning. Conversed with Jackson & Thomson about the Sullivan mortgage and directed them to sell the remaining lot for interest due, as there is no hope that he will pay it. They announced the death by consumption of Mr. Hough, late partner of Judge Potter here and later still with Cochrane & Reynolds, lawyers, Albany. 3. Inquired if they had a good mortgage to sell for say 700 or 800 dollars, as an investment for College and learned that they could loan $1,000 on a $4000 farm in Glenville. 4. Asked Thomson if Mrs. Lynn had made sale of her building in State St. on which College has a mortgage. No. 
5. Asked Jackson when he was going to Schoharie; he said on the 5th of May. Requested him to see to the matter of College's interest of 1000$ in a bond given by Paige, Potter, Reed and others; said he would. 
At 9 1/2 oclock called at Judge Potter's office and asked him how the matter between Union College and Mohawk Bk. was going on --when Judge Rosekraus was going to decide the question. He answered that he had a letter from R[osekraus] saying that he should decide in favor of College, but that he called upon him (Potter) not long ago and asked him to give up that letter, but that he refused. This goes to show that R. has been thinking of changing his mind and deciding adverse to the College. To Jas. Walker & Co. and bought twine and mats for College; to Post Office and back to Judge Paiges office and found him in. 
My object in this call was to hear what was the result of his interview with Lowber, Brown and C. N. Potter in relation to the renunciation by the first of his mortgage of 40,000 D. to Un. College. The judge went over the whole ground and showed conclusively that L's aim and intention is to cheat the College out of the money if possible, that his reasons for refusing payment are of the flimsiest character and only such as a rascal would propose. The following facts come out. 1. Dr. N. and L. are joint partners (secret) in the net ¥ profits that may arise from the sale of all the remaining "Cove" land bounded by Avenue B, 15th Street, East River and 19th St outside of the old Stuyvesant St. The title of these lands is in L. but there is a secret contract by which, as above said, Dr. N is to share equally with him in the profits and losses. This fact is important, as giving a clue 
---.
to several movements now past but hitherto inexplicable --for example, the great interest manifested by ----"----in all the sales, particularly that of the now celebrated market lot to the city, called commonly "the Lowber swindle." Also his great hurry about the sale of the Manhattan Gas Co. block in 1855 or 1856 by which $120,000 was obtained in cash. To some ----"----has said that he had no interest whatever in Lowber's lands; to others he has said that he had a share in them. Thus Vph. says that ----"----told him the former, and Cashier Swits says he told him the latter, giving him to understand that his Mohawk Bk. was therefore safe. (2.) L's renunciation of his bond and mortgage is based upon a recent decision of Judge [?] of New York which limits his water line to the old street (now abandoned) called T[omkins Street, which by an early map of this city was considered the exterior street of the city on the east. To understand the matter this map will help. 
[DRAWING HERE] 
Now this $40,000 mortgage in question, with others, was left in escrow in the hands of J. C. Spencer to be delivered up to College and to become operative on the termination of a law suit betw. E. N. and Thayer & Flag, by which this property was affected. Sometime in Dec. 
1854, E. N. and L., by a joint letter to J. C. S[penser] directed him to deliver up this bond and mortgage, saying that said suit had ceased, and to make sure of this fact Judge [?] got a certificate of that fact from the court in N. Y. It appears now, however, that E. N., instead of stoping the suit, appealed from the lower court and has for the last 5 yrs. kept the thing secret, not intimating that the suit was continued by him until now, when an adverse decision is made. The whole matter is laid open by Lowber's rascality in trying to evade payment by what he hopes may be a legal flaw. Thus if, as he argues, the court decides that I do not own beyond Tompkins St. then a part of your security on that block is lost, (see the shaded part), and therefore I will pay you nothing!! Wonderful conclusion! He has or had quiet possession of the whole, sold it to the city, is sure of his money, but fancying he sees a hole to creep out of, determines to retire with the whole $235,000 and leave the College without a stiver. 
In the meantime, what is his silent partner doing to prevent this fraud upon College? So far, as appears, nothing; he says he was thunderstruck by L's announcement, but can do nothing himself, does'nt want to offend him &c. Are we to infer therefore that he is a partaker in L's iniquity and is willing to have him succeed? I would not say that nor believe it without strong proof but it is nevertheless true that, where a man by pecuniary embarrasments is pushed into a corner, he will sometimes perforce do strange and unusual things. It is charitable, therefore, to believe that ----"----has no part in this fraud. L[owber] on Tuesday morning, altho' in Schen. at ----"----'s did not call upon Judge P. but served certain papers upon E. N. and tried to prevail upon him to sign a paper also equivalent to a cancelment of the mortgage or something of that sort, but he refused much to L's annoyance. 
3. What then is to be the next phase of this matter? ----"----is a partner and afraid of L.; he is completely in the rascals' power pecuniarily and [L.] can in a moment make him partake of his own undesirable notoriety. Nothing therefore is to be expected from his influence; his hands are tied and to go against L. is to go against himself. Judge P. says College can legally hold Jas. Brown only. He, as Trustee of College and contrary to written instruction, suffered the mortgage to be cancelled of Record; by so doing he becomes personally liable. As he holds Lowbers' sheriffs certificates to the value of $139,000, on which money will soon be realized, College must be paid out of this the full amount.of the mortgage and interest. Judge P. accordingly served a paper upon Brown, directing him to provide for College interests out of the evidence of value which he now holds. In regard to Lowber's other mortgage --this, Judge P. says, must be foreclosed so soon as the former is provided for. Brown requests College to keep quiet until he can arrange matters with L. When his case is provided for, the other may be pressed. 
This whole business fully carries out the idea I have long had that L. is a sharper --plotting to cheat whomever he can. He has kept College out of its money as long as possible by one excuse and another; and always placed ----"----between himself and the College. When we have tried to come to close quarters with him, ---."----has always stepped in and sheilded his partner, among other things saying that L. was going to give College $25,000 and it would not do to make him angry. His conduct looks like it!!! 
Sunday April 24, 1859. Fine day -but winding. Wife not [well], home all day with her. Read Thompson's "The Land and the Book." 
Monday April 25, 1859. Pleasant warm day. Doctor A. M. Vedder called to ask about the author of an old book on medicine which he has been reading in the Holland language: title page wanting, author's name Ambrosius Pare. I turned to Brunet and found Ambroise Pare, a French author, 7th ed. of his work published in 1614, so that this Holland Edition is of course a translation; advised him to consult Dr. Cogswell of Astor Library, New York, where [he] 
proposes going this week. He desires to have his lectures in anat.
omy postponed till the middle of next week. 
Saw Judge P[aige] this morning and conversed with him about Lowber's matter. He desires very particularly to know if I delivered, in a legal sense, Lowbers bond and mortgage and assignment to E. Nott on the 12th of Dec. 1856. I said No, having refreshed my memory by a recurrence to my diary; áthat I placed the papers in his (E.N.'s) hands and he placed also Crane and Ely's bond and mortgage in my hands, only in trust; that it was distinctly understood by both of us that this transaction was not complete and final: that neither College, nor he, could assign these bonds and mortgages, nor put them on record; in a word that the business was, in legal phrase only, inchoate. He then gave me a paper, a kind of injunction to copy_ and serve upon James Brown's attorney, Clarkson N. Potter, forbidding him (Brown) paying over to R. W. Lowber the avails of the sheriff's certificates which he now holds, but out of them to pay College mortgage principal and int[erest] &c&c. C. N. P[otter] says Lowber will have but little remaining left of the city purchase after paying expenses and lawyers charges. So much for rascality and haste to overreach and huggermugger. 
Vph. takes rather a sad view of the business; he thinks----" --.-is a partner in the expected avails of the cheat and is not unwilling that L. should succeed. This is rather too broad and uncharitable a view of the case. I am unwilling to believe that ----"----is desirous that College should lose this money, however wrong he may have acted in concealing this appeal to another court and in protect]ing L. in his refusal to pay money long and justly due to College. 
Saw Mrs. and Dr. N. several times today. He complains of weakness and fever, is worse today and looks and acts feeble. He says he doesnt know what to make of it, never had a cold act so before &c. She said she did not think it all the effects of cold, but feared his fall about a month ago was the cause of his soreness in part. Yes, and old age more. How can a man at 86 help feeling weak and sore? 
Discovered a very unpleasant and improper omission in Secretary of Trustees' Minutes for 185 7, now just copied into the Book. This present month, probably while I was in New York, more than half of my Treasurer's Report for that year is omitted --all the explanatory part and the report on Nott Trust Fund. So also my Librarian's Report. I had intimations sometime since that my Report for that year would not be recorded; that ----"----had told [the] Secretary that, if it could be found, he might record it. I then asked Sec where it was; he said it had been put into the Finance Committees hands. I then asked Judge P[aige] if he had it: No. Finally came to the conclusion that----"----as chairman of that com. had it and said to Secty. "Its no matter for I have a copy in the letter book," and told him it must be recorded according to a resolution of the Board which says that all reports shall so be disposed of if not otherwise ordered. There the matter rested till this time when I found the mutilated minutes. Told Judge P[aige] of the matter. He said, "Write them in yourself," to which I demurred as being improper, but said I would confer with the Secy. abt. the matter. This tampering with the Book of Minutes is no new thing with ----"----; he has time and again tinkered them and caused to be inserted matters that the Board never heard of till they were seen there, matters too of the gravest import. 
I do not intend in my case to rest quiet with this curtailment of my report, for it is of the utmost importance to my credit and future good character as an officer of the Board that all the truth should be told the Trustees --that in the future they may not, as they have done in the past, charge that the Treasurer or his master has concealed the truth from them and covered up the true financial condition of College. ----"----'s nature is concealment and where he can, he will cover up and keep silence until he is smoked out, e.g. this late Lowber matter. In 1857 he was greatly exercised by my Treas. Report. It told too much truth of the past and stirred up some of the Trustees to ask about matters and want to know if it was all true. 
Saw James Kidd Esq. of Albany who has several W. Troy leases to sell --such as those the College now holds. He has what bring in a rent of 88 dolls. and offers the batch for $1,200 which is about 60 dollars better than they usually sell at. I propose to get Warner of Rochester to take 700$ worth for his prize for the best student in Senior Class and to take the balance for U. C. Kidd sells out because he has so few as to make it undesirable to hold them any longer. He originally took $25,000 worth and has sold all out, but these. 
Tuesday April 26, 1859. Father Harvey is cleaning and repairing, preparatory to keeping house a few doors below us. Rain, rain, all day. Made two copies of the injunction which I am to serve on Jas. Brown Esqr. of New York and showed the same to Judge P[aige] who approved of them. Mailed the same to C. N. Potter Esq., 61 Wall St., attorney of Jas. Brown, one of which copies he is to retain; the other he is to return to Judge P. with certificate of service. Judge P., altho a cautious and charitable man, as most lawyers learn to become from their experience of the dark side of men's character's, cannot but exclaim at ----"----'s moral obtuseness and almost total want of those proprieties so constantly required among business men and high-toned legal gentlemen. What must we think of a Trustee who with the most simple and matter-of-course coolness associates as a partner in business and profits with a reckless and unprincipled schemer, and suffers his private interests to take a course entirely at variance with his duty to the College? 
Says Judge P.," No court in this State would for a moment allow a Trustee to engage in any transaction which would involve any private interest in connection with the interest of his Trusteeship. The one or the other he must abandon at once, no matter how innocent may be transaction, for it is unlawful and improper to put human nature to the test of pitting private and public interests against each other." . This being law and common sense, when was the time that ----"----had not his private business mixed up with that of the College? when he had not to choose either to sacrifice the one or the other? But after all, has he not sacrificed his own for the college good? I do not see it. I believe ----"----to have about the average moral firmness and honesty of men who labor hard and long for wealth --no more, no less. His is the common article of commercial honor. He is made of the same clay as other men who are apt to look at their own rather than for their neighbors welfare. His motives I do not judge ordinarily. unless they appear quite plainly in words or actions. Still, that he has used the Coll. to further his wild and foolish speculations I believe and know. His motives may have been as pure as those of an angel, yet they do not sanctify improper transactions. Then, as to the use of words, ----"----is a Tallyrand pure and unmixed --words are, when occasion requires it, used not to express the truth but to conceal it and to mislead, while perhaps they may not in themselves be objectionable. 
Vph. feels most unpleasantly about many of ----"----'s sayings and doings; being himself an open, frank and blunt man he cannot tolerate anything like finessing, equivocating, or squirming. He and many others have heard [----"----say repeatedly that he had no interest whatever with L[owber] in his operations in N. Y. All he was looking after was the interest of the Coll. Whereas at the same time he told Cashier S[wits] of Mohawk Bk. that he had an interest with L. in his real rstate transactions and that, when he sold the market lot and got his money, he would be able to pay his indebtedness at the M[ohawk] Bk. Now put that and that together and what are we to think of them? Is this plain honest dealing? Is there not some reason for his saying that Vph. thinks him a rascal? Oh poor weak human nature! How little do we know the force of our own inclinations, words, and actions! One is almost ready to believe that there is a natural moral obliquity in some men's hearts that they have no power to see and control, else how can we account for the fact so often met with that men of the greatest apparent piety and usefulness in some respects are the very devil himself in others. Some preach and pray like angels, but drink like fishes, or lust like a satyr; some toil to convert souls to God and cheat them like pickpockets of their money, In a word (as [Dr. N.] said of his own son, John) how common it is that we find men of eminent piety but infamous morals. 
Wednesday April 27, 1859. Fine day. In our trenching for drains and sewer for Graduate's Hall the recent rains have made sad work: as fast as the earth is thrown out, it caves in again and really doubles the expence of the work. 
W. H. Scram of Sand Lake, teacher of a family school there, called to see me this evening, talked cheifly of school and colleges, his success and trials &c. He says the scholarship method of endowing the Troy University has worked badly and much to its discredit. Many of the subscribers are indignant with its management and hate the very name of it. They have spent all their money in the building and have nothing for an endowment, without which the institution cannot thrive. Had a call today from H. G. Warner Esq. of Rochester who brings a son to enter College from the Rochester Univ. He is a graduate in Class of 1829 and proposes to invest 720 dolls. for a yearly prize for the best-conducted Senior who for two years previous to his ágraduation has sustained the best character for scholarship and good conduct. The latter, he says, is the main thing, yet he would not have the prize given to a dunce. Talked with him again about investing his foundation in the West Troy leases. He agrees to it and promises to send me a draft within a fortnight for $714. 
He is full of College reminiscences and among other things spoke of Dr Nott's commencing his experiments on steam while he was in College. He (Warner) was making a drawing of a steam engine in his room No. 7 S[outh] C[ollege] for the recitation room when Dr. N. came in and said, "What's that?" Warner: "Drawing of a steam engine." Dr. N. "What do you know about steam?" 
W. "Not much but I am trying to learn." Dr. N. "Where do you read on the subject?" 
W. "In the encyclopedia." Dr. N. "Steam is a very important power and I must study the subject. Get me the volume, I want to see it, where is it?" 
W. "Prof. Joel[?] Nott has it in his room." Dr. N. "Go and get it". 
W. "It is Saturday --he is'nt at home." Dr. N. "Where is he?" 
W. "Gone to Albany." (courting) Warner says that after the vacation when he returned to College, Dr. N. sent for him and said he had been studying the subject of steam and had conceived the idea of a boiler to be heated by anthracite coal and employed him to make drawings of it. It had a sort of revolving grate, but when done and considered was found to be impracticable. He then altered the plan and W. drew another; this not suiting, he drew another which the Dr took away. The first two, W. says, he has now rolled up with his diploma, and that these were the first attempts which the Dr. made in his steam experiments, which resulted in his spending 300,000 or 400,000 dollars for nothing. Warner says the Dr. also started another idea (which shows his ignorance of the subject), that of extracting the gas from anthracite coal and lighting his house by it. Accordingly he set Horsfall (Joe), his pattern-maker, at work and had a stove made to carry out his project. One night about 11 o'clock he (W. )heard a rap at his door and Dr. N., opening, beckoned him to come down to his study. On entering he saw no light, but in one corner of the room there was a new stove and issuing. from a small orifice in the top was a little blue flame about an inch long. The Doctor turned to Warner and with gravity said, "What do you think of it?" Warner, with difficulty repressing his laughter, answered "I think it equal[l]s the blue lights of Connecticut." Without moving a muscle the Dr. said "You may go" and from that time to this, said W., the stove was never more heard of. It took this costly experiment to teach the Dr. that there was no illuminating gas in anthracite. All his experiments were of the same character. 
Graham, Bookseller, called to speak of the approaching election for school commissioners. He says that the enemies of the school are very bitter against it and Un. College and will do all they can to overthrow it. 
Thursday April 28, 1859. Fair day and warm. The exciting topic of conversation in town now is the approaching election for school com.missioners. Ever since Union School was started five years since, there has been a class of citizens who have opposed the school and all its interests. Its success, however, has been so signal that they can now only show their spite in a covert manner. They now approve of the school but deprecate the extravagance of the school commissioners who pay too high salaries and spend too much in beautifying the building; hence they ask for a new set of men to manage affairs who will cut down expences and save money. The friends of 

have to be entered and balanced The last day of the quarter and Professor's salary accounts have to be entered. The first day of the term and a world of business with students have to be done, The day is over with all its bustle and toil. The new entrances to College have thus far been about 20, making our whole number of actual members of College about 
339. Probably this number has never been equalled in the history of the áácollege. 
The sewer and.drain and acqueduct for Graduates Hall are so far laid 
that a few days more labor will finish them. For a small job we have met 
with constant hindrances. Rain after rain has softened the soil and filled 
the trenches with mud and water; springs and quick sands in some places 
were met with, but tonight the lead pipe was laid and covered. This pipe 
conveys water for mortar making and passes thro' a two-and-a-half in. 
drain tile, thus affording both a drain and acqueduct. A section looks thus 
(drawing here). 
Dr. L[ewis], professor, dropped into office this P.M. and gave his views upon the spirit and management of the Am. Tract Society, condemning both in decided terms. This is the more strange inasmuch as he is a very conservative man and was for years an ultra pro-slavery supporter and even wrote strongly in favor of slavery. This only shows how great is the change going on in public sentiment here at the North on this subject. The Professor spoke particularly of the society's refusing to publish anything upon the evils of slavery, and upon the spirit of the meeting in New York at the last anniversary as evincing a determination on the part of the officers and managers to rule and conduct the society as they please independently of the great body of the country members and directors. He also discussed the merits of the so-called Religious Newspapers and concluded that betw. the Pol[iticians?] and Rel. Papers there was not much to choose --the former are a little more rough, but the latter stab just as savagely. The New York Observer he especially dislikes and thinks its influence baneful in the extreme, in perpetuating slavery and non-committalism. The Press in general --the Newspaper Press I mean --he would like to sweep from existence as doing more harm than good. Saw Dr. N. today. He looks and walks feeble; he has not regained his strength since his severe cold and I fear will not. At 86 who can expect a speedy recovery? Mrs. N., I think, trembles often for him. She waits upon him faithfully and has to all appearances prolonged his life by her tender care. 
Long talk with School Commissioner Hoag of 3d Ward on the approaching election. Advised him to run as candidate for re-election. 
Sunday May 1, 1859. Fine day and warm. With wife to Bapt. Church where heard Mr. Day preach upon the Lord's Supper. In our zeal for 

the school on the other hand say that due economy has been used consistent with the interests of a good school; to cut down salaries would be equivalent to dismissing our present efficient corps of teachers, and to stop other expenses would curtail the comfort and decency of the building. Next Tuesday will try the metal of our citizens and determine how much they value this institution. Mr. Clarke the superintendent dropped in today and conversed for an hour or two upon the subject. 
Received from C. N. Potter a copy of my injunction on Jas. Brown with certificate of service, which I took to Judge Paige. 
Saw Dr. Nott and Dr. Hickok on the subject of termbills --room rent. To do justice to those students who room out of College, the proposition was made that the rent of all College rooms not occupied should [be] assessed upon those who room out of College -thus enabling College to get full rent for all its rooms, whether full or not. They both assented to the proposition and thought it both just and wise. 
Friday April 29, 1859. The warmest day of the season. Term opened. Entrances (new) about a dozen, raising our numbers over 330. Some engineering students -some from other Colleges, some University or Irregulars. 
Young Consaul, who went from this place with Prof. Seelye to Amherst College, says he is a very popular and useful man there; much beloved by all the young men. Our old mail carrier, "Uncle Jimmy Rogers," after being housed nearly three [weeks? months?] now comes out with the spring. 
This evening at S o'clock had a Faculty Meeting in Treasury Office at which all the Faculty were present. The course of studies was read and approved of. Doctor Nott [made] his usual remark at the commencement of every term --"it is now a good time to gird up --it is much easier to run down than to do well, but we must all do our best for the morals of the young; and be sure to report to me if anyone's not doing well." 
By her request called on Miss Jane Ann McPherson, who showed me a joint note given to a Miss Hansburgh and signed by her bro. Andrew and herself. This note she told me belonged to her Aunt Jane but, as she thought Andrew would not repay the money to Aunt Jane if he knew it was hers, this note was contrived, and Miss Hansburg is nominally the lender of the money which in real[l]ity belongs to Aunt Jane. Miss McPherson told me this, that if any thing should happen to her it might be known by someone to whom the note belonged. 
Prof. Gillespie came up from 1859 New York last night. 
Saturday April 30, 1859. Fine warm day. The last day of the week and workmen have to be paid off. The last day of the month and accounts 

orthodoxy we are accustomed to run into extremes. We often charge the Catholics and Episcopalians with making too much of their forms and esteeming sermons too little, but in avoiding their faults I think we run to the opposite fault, esteeming sermons as the main and almost only parts of public worship worthy of the name. We require short prayers, short singing aand much preaching. Our sermons are very much like lectures; they are criticised as such, and a preacher is esteemed in proportion to his resemblance to the popular lecturer. This ought not to be so. The act of worship ought to be independent of the sermon so that a man could feel that he had worshipped even if the sermon were omitted. 
Monday May 2, 1859. Fine day --a little cooler at night but good growing weather. Very busy getting all things to rights preparatory to the opening of the session. 1. Opened Library from 9 to 10 A. M. 2. Then till 12 1/2 P. 
M. taking on term-bills, answering letters, questions &c. 3. To dinner, and 
4. From 2 to 3 Botany recitation 5. To bank to make deposit of $1051. 6. Balancing cash with Mr. G[ilbert] and trying to find where a missing $10. is gone. 7. Tea 8. To walk and home at 8 1/2 and in room for the night. 
In regard to the school commissioner for our 3d. Ward I hear tonight Mr. Walter McQueen is one candidate by friends of the school and Jerome Barhydt by the Irish and opponents of it. Saw Brethren Dealtry, Weller, Peck and Powell and spoke to them of the propriety of disposing of our poor neglected burying ground on "Albany Hill" south of the city to our neighbors, the Catholics, one of whom (Keyes) says they will purchase it and respect the dead who lie buried there; keepá the grounds fenced and in good repair. This would seem preferable to its present state. This ground, about half an acre, was given to the Bapt. Ch. by the city for a burying ground, but its locality is such that few or no families will any longer use it for such purposes, especially since the Vale Cemetery is opened. Spoke also of the propriety of offering the Pres. Ch. our house in the afternoon of Sundays while they are repairing theirs. 
Tuesday May 3, 1859. Fine day --a busy day. 1. Opened Library from 9 to 10 A M. 2. Made out checks for Professors salaries. 3. As to Nott Trust Fund salaries ($1500), received from H. S. Anabel about enough for one ($389) this morning. Mentioned to Dr. N. this deficiency: he said I might use his salary ($500) to make up the remainder. "Sufficient unto the day &c." he quoted as usual. 
He says nothing to me about Lowber, whatever he thinks. His conduct towards College in refusing payment is so entirely without excuse that I do not see how he can give any excuse for him. On the other hand such is his connection and partnership with the scamp that he cannot and dare not disoblige him. There is but one thing for him to do --to hold him up as a clever smart fellow, and keep on the right side of him. Mr. James Brown came in. I spoke about the Lowber business and said that I saw by the papers that his judgement was referred to John McKeon. Mr. B[rown] then said that the Controller had promised to pay it and that he had endorsed it over to Clarkson N. Potter (yesterday) and he supposed the money would be paid today. But, he remarked, as he had been served with papers from both sides, he shouldnt pay over the money to either until the courts decided to whom it belonged. Saw Judge Paige soon after who said C. N. Potter had promised to pay over the interest on College giving an indemnity receipt, to pay back if the court so decided. He thought he would go down to New York and see C. N. P[otter] this week. I asked him also to ask G. L. Wilson for a copy of E. N. and R. W.L[owber]'s letter to Jno. C. Spencer ordering him in 1854 to give over to Treas., U. C., the 40,000$ mortgages. He said E. N. was afraid to move in the Lowber business and wanted him (Judge P.) to serve an injunction upon him (E.N.). The judge said to him that he had nothing more to do with it than he (P[otter] ) had but, [if] it would gratify him, he would draw up a paper. The fact is ----"--.-wishes to keep well with L[owber] and yet he wants L. to pay the $40,000 to Coll. --to serve God and Mammon, a hard thing. 

The students come in pretty well and pay tolerable well, better than could be expected where no compulsion and not much of coaxing are used. 
Election for school commissioners in the 4 wards --#1 in each elected. 1. Dr. Backus, re-election; iná #2., G. CbCarley, said to be opposed to school; #3 Jno. McDermot, known to be; #4. Ira Brownell, re-election. It is a shame that the 3d. should have made such a selection --a Catholic Irishman deadly opposed to our system. 
Uncle Smart from Miles, Mich. stays with us tonight on his way east. His family is well. 
Wednesday May 4, 1859. The weather continues unusually fine and vegitation comes forward apace. Saw Dr. Backus: conversation about Union School and the election of commissioners. He concluded that upon the whole the people have sustained the commissioners in their school policy for the last year notwithstanding the hue and cry made by the croakers and grumblers. His judgement is to call for no less sum of money than last year, $9,000, because if we fall back it will be hard to increase the sum afterwards. I am not sure that his doctrine is good; it is certainly good policy to ask for no more and no less than strict economy demands. 
Salaries are all paid up tonight and money in the bank. 
Vph. is somewhat annoyed by an adverse criticism in the Princeton Review upon his Rational Cosmology, altho' he avers that it does not toutch his main argument, only discovers half a dozen errors of fact carelessly stated without sufficient investigation. It is said to be written by Prof. s. A. Alexander, prompted to it as Vph. thinks by our Prof. J[ackson]. I feel no great interest in the book or its criticisms, only I like to see fair play and ordinary courtesy, which have not been shown to him. 

J.W.M.Farnham (grad. of 1856) was ordained last eve-ning in Pres. Church as a missionary to China. Rev. Dr. Campbell of Albany preached the sermon and Dr. Hally made the charge. Thorburn and Allen of Class of '5 7 were also licensed by the Presbytery .. 
Uncle Smart left this morning [at] 8 o'clock for the East. It is said we shall have no plums in Schen. this year, whether from frosts of winter or what no one knows. 
Thursday May 5, 1859. Warm dusty and dry. Saw [Dr. N.] today and talked with him about the H[unter] Point matters --the prospect foi;: good times there &c. He said, "I wanted to get the ferry started, to bring the Long Isd. R.R. there and get the Flushing Avenue opened before I gave up the management of matters to the College; now 1 have accomplished these things, I am content." ----"----has a remarkable talent or inclination to absorb all credit and glory to himself even when it belongs to others; he is not noisy or tenacious about it, but does the thing in a quiet, matter-of.fact way as tho' he really believed what he said, whereas the fact may be directly contrary. He often says, "I knew C[rane] & E[ly] were going to fail for two years past but contrived to keep them up till their failure could not affect the College injuriously. I furnished them money &c. "Whereas the fact is just the other way: C. & E. failed because [----"----'s wants were so pressing that he could not fulfil his promises to them; he put their paper out of his hands inste[a]d of holding it and renewing it as promised. Poor weak human nature! how those called the best of men fall short of even a moderate eminence in goodness. 
Friday May 6, 1859. The weather has attained an uncommon temperature today so that every one cries out at the heat. The atmosphere is filled with smoke and dust. I never saw vegitation put forth more rapidly. 
In morning had a call from Rev. Wm. Payne, Epis. Mins. in town, and President Jackson of of Hobart College, to see our Library and Cabinet. 
Our new students have been uncommonly numerous this spring, not less now than 28, whereas last year on May 12 we had only 3. Our total number is 347. So also our receipts of cash have been about $500 in excess of last years receipts. 
Wrote some days since to Edwd. T. Potter, Archt. of Graduates Hall, for instructions in building, but no answer comes back yet. The Assoc. of Alumni have the most slip-shod management of this affair that can be imagined; if a botch is not made of it, then good luck will prevail and nothing else. The building of Nat. Hist. Hall was a lesson to me not soon to be forgotten. I acted only as "clerk of the works," but gentlemen concerned with it as a building committee did not agree as to a plan and although ---."----acquiesced to the present plan, yet he always in a secret way among his friends found fault with what he once assented to and charged me with all or most of the fault. 

Saturday May 7, 1859. Extraordinary weather. Mercury at 91 á in shade, hazy, smoky and dry. Vegitation is a fortnight ahead of its time. Father Harvey has taken a house a few doors below us from Mrs. Craig and is fitting it up for the season. 
Some days since, I wrote to Edwd. T. Potter the Archt. of Graduates Hall for further instructions but none have come. Those New York people undertake twice the amount of work they are able to perform and in consequence it is half done or half neglected. I am determined to take no responsibility in this work; faster than I receive instructions I will not go. The responsibility must rest upon the persons who have the matter in hand. 
Sunday May 8, 1859. Hot and sultry. Mercury up to 89 á with some signs of rain. With wife in forenoon to the 2nd Dutch Church where heard Rev. Mr. Slingerland of Scotia, who exchanges with Mr. Dean. The latter has had much trouble with some of his congregation and, altho' sustained by a majority, has been rejected by the Classis. My experience has been that the gravest evil a church can have is an unemployed minister connected with it; if there be two such, they are enough to ruin it. This ch. has two such good men, but being men only, they make mischeif and division. Mr. D[ean] doesnt suit them and they are determined he shall not be the pastor. 
Monday May 9, 1859. Hot day as before, and more signs of rain which began towards night. Monday and Tuesday from 9 to 10. A.M. are my Library days. The number of students who borrow books from Coll. Liby. is not great. It is not much to be marvelled at, for our collection is meagre and ill assorted. Here is a College which, after an existence of 64 years, has only 8,500 volumes in its Library. It is a disgraceful fact and tells little for the intelligence and appreciation of the Supreme Authority. 
Tuesday May 10, 1859. Rain last night and today. Saw Dr. Backus, now busy getting drawings and plans for the enlargement of his (Pres.) Church. He tells me he shall begin so soon as the Architect (Ellis of Albany) gets the plans ready. Probably 10 to 12 thousand dollars will be spent in this renewal. The Pres. Ch. is wealthy and large; and this enlargement of their house is for the purpose of counteracting a movement for a second Ch., 

which would have weakened the old and produced a weak new one. Father Harvey commenced house keeping today. 
Wednesday May 11, 1859. Cool and cloudy. At 10 A.M. attended a meeting of the Commissioners of Education at the Union School Building. Choose James R. Craig Pres. and appointed committees. The principal matter of discussion was the want of room for the children who are now pouring into the building, and after much talk a committee was appointed to look about for a room or building in the lower part of the City, which can be hired for the purpose of a school house. 
I hear it announced that Tutor D. L. Millard leaves College this week to sail on Monday for Europe with James Kidd's son, as his tutor and governor. He goes for two years at a salary of $400 and found. 
. Young Rosell, a mul[l]atto, who entered College last session from Central College, McGrawville, as an Indian left yesterday for some eastern college -probably Middletown University. After much discussion and temporising, he was admitted last winter, when it was finally decided that he was an Indian and not negro, but this session one Lason came on from Central College and asserted that he was accounted a negro there and entered the college as such. By this unwise and needless revelation the poor young man is finally obliged to leave to avoid another rumpus among the negro-haters. 
Thursday May 12, 1859. Fine day. 1. Dr N. called at Treas. Office to say 
that Mr. Cochrane was in town and that a full meeting of the Finance Committee could therefore be held at say 11 o'clock this day, provided Judge P. could meet there. On this suggestion I started to find him and Dr. Backus and after much running found them. The former could not well find time to meet in daytime and the latter could not spare above 3/ 4 of an hour at 11 o'clock on account of an engagement with Mr. Ellis, architect of his church. It was then agreed to have a meeting Saturday night provided Mr. Cochrane should be home. Started for him and about 12 M. overtook him in State St[reet]. He answered that he should not be at home Sat. night -not before midnight but said, "I will vote with you on finances." "Or with Judge P.," said I. "Paige dont like me," said he, "since I voted for Potter for Judge instead of him." Finally it was agreed to have the meeting tomorrow, Friday evening. 
Tutor D. L. Millard leaves town today for his European voyage with young Kidd of Albany. His leaving throws some classes into confusion -.the Greek of Freshman Class and how to provide for it puzzles our authorities. Dr. H[ickok] wrote to D. K. Bartlett to come but he answers that he is pleasantly situated, preaching down the river and had rather not leave. Dr. Lewis says he will take it for the additional compensation, and Prof. Foster has also been applied to. 

From 6 to 8 P. M. made my first Botanical Excursion with my class thro' the eastern part of the College grounds along the brook: among other plants found Epigea Repens, Waldsteinia fragaroids, Uralictrium *****oides, &c&c. 
In the evening till 1/2 past 9 attended an adjourned meeting of the Board of Education at Union Sch. Building. The discussion cheifly turned upon additional room for scholars, and it was determined as the best thing to be done for the present to hire the Cameronian Church in Centre Street. 
Friday May 13, 1859. Fine day. Received today a check from H. G. Warner of Rochester for 715$ as a foundation of his prize of $50. for the best conducted student of U. C. for two yrs. before graduation. This I am to invest in West Troy permanent leases for him and for this purpose am to visit Albany tomorrow to James Kidd Esq. who owns them. Saw Dr. N. and Judge P. on this point. They assent to the purchase not only of this amt. but also of 500$ worth for U. C. 
Saw ----"----this morning; he spoke of employing Dr. L[ewis] and Prof F[oster] to hear the Greek of Freshman Class but was evidently annoyed that Vph. had spoken to the latter about the matter, thereby interfering with his prerogative. He thought if no one had interfered, he could have got along with the arrangement perfectly well. He spoke of Lowber's mortgage and thought there would be a law suit --a long one and finally ended with "sufficient unto the day &c." 
Saturday May 14, 1859. Fine comfortable day. At 8 o'clock A.M. went to Albany to see Mr. Jas. Kidd about the West Troy leases for Mr. H. G. Warner. As I anticipated, found he had gone to New York with his son who is about to leave for Europe. Went to the County Clerk's office to examine Mr K's title to these leases --then to the various stores where "safes" are sold with the view of finding one for College and for Professor Gillespie. Found two principal kinds: Davidson's, made in Albany, and Herring's, New York article. Home at 12 o'clock. 
Saw ----"----this P.M. by his request. He talked about financial matters much as at my last interview, said there would probably be a lawsuit with Lowber, who would in the end perhaps have to pay a part of his bond and mortgage --but if so the payment of interest would be delayed, that probably Crane & Ely would also not pay interest. In view of these things, he thought it prudent to be very economical. He then recurred to the Greek recitation of the Freshman Class which Prof. F[oster] now hears, and said that as Profs were bound to hear 3 recitations a day he would not promise [n]either F[oster] [n]or L[ewis] any extra salary. I said that such a precident would be a bad one. He then passed to the appointment of tutors made for the first time last July by the Trustees and seemed to feel somewhat annoyed at their taking the po;\'Verout of his hands or rather exercising the power which alone rested with them[ him?] He said the object was to pass by the appointment of Dr. H[ickok]'s nephew and that Judge H[arris] said to him after the meeting the talk about the Charter was all of no account --that the Trustees could just as well make the appointments by a committee as by a direct vote &c. 

Dr. Backus called at Treas. Office to read a letter he had prepared to give Dr. Nott in which he details the powers of Prof. Stanton of the Classical Dept. of Union School in distinction from Superintendent Clarkes powers. The object of this letter is to give Dr. N. something upon which to base a negociation which he is having between Mr. C[larke] and Prof S[tanton] in relation to their relative duties and powers. They have had a little misunderstanding upon this point and the fear is that a breach may be made by which one or the other will leave the school. My opinion has ever been that the Classical Depart-ment of our Un. School should be made a seperate and distinct school; until this be done there will be no safety from a collision between the two gentlemen concerned in the direction of the school. Walked with Prof G. this P.M. to the Quarry to look at a heap of broken stone for concrete for the foundation of Graduates' Hall. 
Today had a conversation with Mr. Holton, one of the Trustees of the Vale Cemetery Assoc., on the subject of the purchase from Coll. of our 23 acres of land in the Vale next west of their property. Urged the importance of their purchasing this property now as a public park to be hereafter, when occasion requires, used as a burying ground. And as the City will thus have the use of this property as a pleasure ground it is no more than just that the city should be at the expence of at least a part of the purchase. This can be done in two ways, either by voluntary contributions or by an appropriation made by the corporation of the city. 
Sunday May 15, 1859. Fine cool day. In morning went with wife to 2nd Dutch Church, corner of Jay and Liberty Streets, where we heard an excellent sermon from Dr. Hickok on the entire dependence of man upon God's mercy --on man's unprofitableness to his Maker &c. 
Read in P. M. in Thomson's "Book and the Land," a book of considerable interest and usefulness both to the general reader and to the traveller in Palestine. It contains much and minute geographical and topographical information and would be an exellent Guide Book for that country. This work should have been revised by a man of taste before publication and put into better language. 
Monday May 16, 1859. Cool, south wind blowing and prospect of rain tonight. Received a letter from E. T. Potter in relation to Graduates Hall, 

directing its diameter to be increased sixteen inches, and adhering to a concrete foundation. This P. M. Prof G[illespie] laid out the foundation --a sixteen-sided polygon, with radius to the outer angles of 44 feet. It is a matter of some complaint the Archt. does not come up and lay out and give directions for the work. 9 to 10 A. M. in Library. 3 to 4 P. M. class in Botany, which numbers about 20 persons, and 6 1/ 4 to 7 3/ 4 P. M. made an excursion with class along the Troy R. R. after flowers. Found Viola rostratas, Saxifraga Pennsylvanica andá Claytonia Virginiana. 
Tuesday May 17, 1859. Rain most of the day, till near night. This evening 
attended a meeting of the Trustees of the 1st Bapt. Church at the meeting 
house. The Board consists of A. A. Wemple Pres., D. J. Tichenor Sec. and 
Treas., D. L. Powell --Clute and myself. Business of not much importance. 
Much talk as usual at such meetings; every one likes to hear himself talk. 
In Treasury Office busy making up my batch of dunning letters to students 
and their parents. 
Wednesday May 18, 1859. Cloudy, south wind but not cold. No rain. until 
9 o'clock in the evening. ----"----called at the Treas. Office for paper alone, 
but was immediately followed by Mrs. to accompany him back, fearing he 
might stumble and fall without help. Her watchful care is worthy of all 
praise. She evidently fears for the effects of his growing helplessness lest 
some accident should grow out of it to him. Her present fears are excused 
by charging ----"----'s weakness to the use of the galvanic battery in the 
hands of one DeGalier. A better reason may be found in his extreme age. 
This morning received a letter from Mr. E. C. Delavan advising me as a friend to keep clear of the anticipated conflict that may grow out of the present unpleasant relations of ----"----and Vph. This is a second hint (the other coming from Dr. B.) that I have received that there would be a "blow up" when the Trustees meet in July. 
Called on Judge P[aige] to see if he can attend a meeting of Resident á Trustees this evening and received a negative answer; then introduced the matter of our troubles, and told him I anticipated a conflict in the Board of á an unpleasant nature and besought him, if there was the least danger of such a calamity, to use his influence to have a conference of friends of both parties and Coll. to compromise and heal the difficulties. He asked what would be the subject of complaint and how it would be introduced. I said, probably the matter of a falling off of discipline in Coll. and that someone would inquire as to the cause. Judge P. "I supposed that if anything should be done, it might possibly be an attack upon Vph's last book." 
I. "I think not because a debate on metaphysics, or matters of science could hardly comport with the dignity of such a Board. Moreover it is not probable that anyone would charge Vph with heterodoxy in religion." Judge P. "Has not Vph. done all he could in the discipline of Coll.?" 

I. "I know of nothing to the contrary. He has said he could do no more because not directed to do so by ----"----and, when I have asked if he could not assume the authority, he has said no because then ----"----and his friends would say that he had assumed too much and was trying to thrust ----"----from his seat." Judge P. "It would be a disastrous thing for Coll. if Vph should leave now because his friends would attribute it to persecution and such a rumor would tell upon our credit and good name. Moreover, who could be got in his place, for surely someone is is needed in ----"----'s present state of health? I am a friend of ----"---.and would do anything for his credit and comfort, but I do think it would be for his good if he would resign a portion of his duties into Vph's hands and let him do them in his own way." 
I. "If----"----was taken away, I have my doubt if some of Bd. would vote for Vph as his successor. I think there are some denominational prejudices against him." Judge P. "The clergy are much more set and illiberal than secular persons, especially lawyers, and I sometimes think they are much more persecuting and uncharitable. We get so many hard knocks and rubs that we learn to be charitable and not to judge harshly. Have you read the Review of Vph's book in Princeton Rev.? Alexander charges him with verging on Pantheism and Dr. B. thinks he is tinged with German Philosophy of which he has a horror." 
I. "I have neither read the book nor the Review. No matter how bad the book is, Vph has not been well used in Coll. by Dr. J[ackson], who in a very unbecoming manner attacked it in his rec. room before the Senior Class. There is but one opinion in College about the propriety of such treatment." 
Judge P. then discussed the characteristics of certain T[rustees] in the Bd. who were led by [Dr. N.?], who had an independent opinion and action. 
At 3 P. M. analysis of flowers with class and at 6 1/4 out with class collecting flowers. Mr. Ramsay called and offered $100 for triangular lot, corner of Terrace St. and State Street, next to Van Brunts. Van Brunt has offered only 50$ for it. 
Thursday May 19, 1859. Fine day. Warm and growing. Answered Mr. Delavan's letter as will be found in press copy in Letter Book. Saw Mr. Ramsay in relation to his purchase of lot, corner of State and Terrace Streets, and said to him that as a matter of courtesy to Mr. Van Brunt, who owns next to it and has often desired to buy it, I must offer it to him first and if he would pay most for it he must have it. Mr. R. then told me his object in buying this lot --it is to bring Van B. to terms in relation to a dispute which Mr. R. has with Van B. and others in regard to what they call Crescent Park at the West End of State street. Told R. as soon as I would see Van B., I would give him an answer --probably tomorrow. 

Have begun to lay the concrete for foundation for Graduates' Hall. Call from John Dealtry in town, who proposes to give to College a set of American coins and to try to induce others to add to the same collection. In answer I promised to fit up a proper case for same and keep them safe in the Library. 
Party this evening at Dr. Hickok's at which [I? Dr. N.?] was invited but did not attend. Took to Rigg's Printer the Trust Deed of Mr. Delavan, of "Wheatley Collection" to be printed for Mr. Delavan. 
á Call from Albon Man, grad. of 1849, lawyer, now of Malone St. Law Co. He visited the Laboratory, Engineering Dept. Library and Wheatley Cabinet with all which he was much pleased. 
Talked with Prof. G[illespie] the other [day] about the troubles in Coll. between ----"----and Vph. His prejudices are rather against Vph. whom he thinks obstinate, opinionated, blunt and unconciliating. He supposes that he might have yeilded more than he has to ----"----'s peculiar methods of discipline and procedure; that he has been too stiff, too unbending, that probably he had encouragement from----"----that he would resign College matters into his hands as soon as he became acquainted with them and that, as this has not been done, sourness and disappointment have followed. G. is partly right and partly not right: his prejudices do not allow him to be a proper judge in all cases. 
Friday May 20, 1859. Fine day. Sent Reagles to Van Brunt to offer him the lot spoken of yesterday; he refused to give more than 50$: afterwards saw Ramsay, accepted his offer of 100$ and took 20$ as the first payment for it. Had a call from H. Rosa who offered cement for Graduates' Hall [for] at 9/ pr. bbl. whereas the Vandebogarts charge 10/ and, moreover, today demand back the barrels, which is an [un]usual thing and contrary to agreement with them. Ordered therefore twenty barrels of Rosa. 
Call from Miss Proctor of Union School and analysed for her Trillium erectum and Trientalis Americana --two flowers which she gives to her Botany Class today for an exercise. 
One third of concrete, one foot thick and 5 ft. wide, foundation of Graduate Hall, laid today. Mason comes on tomorrow to lay the first course of "block" stones. Called on John Strong, Mrs. A. Craig's agent, to look at deed &c. which he is making out for Father Harvey of house and lot which he occupies just below me in Union Street. The price is to be $2500 -.$1000 down and $1,500 on bond and mortgage, deed to be made out in 

Mother Harvey's name. Papers to be finished next Monday. Letter from Jas. Kidd, Albany, saying he would attend to the matter of West Troy leases today or tomorrow. Shall go down tomorrow D.V. 
Saw Dr. N. last evening in relation to the lot now sold to Ramsay. He said it was worth richly $100, but it should first be offered to Van B. If refused, then sold to R. Some time since Judge P. said, "I authorize you to sell this lot for any sum not less than $50." Prof. Newman called last evening to say that Dr. S. S. Strong of Saratoga Springs desired to use my name as a reference in his new advertising circular --answer Yes. 
Saw Mrs. and Dr. N. this evening at their house: he busy writing as usual, a most indefatigable worker. The Dr. never does anything but by hard labor and constant remodelling, in which he differs from men of genius who conceive a design and then only have to commit to paper or practice. Mrs. N. spoke of Mrs. Crosby of Troy who called on her yesterday and is about to marry Gen. Cooper of Albany. 
Saturday May 21, 1859. At 8 o'clock started in the rain for Albany to consummate the matter of purchasing West Troy leases from James Kidd for H. G. Warner of Rochester and for Union College. After waiting at his office till 10 o'clock, he came in, produced the leases, and proceeded to write out the deeds and assignments. The amount of rents which he proposes to sell is 88 dollars which anwers to a 7% principal of about $1258. This he sells for $1200 and gives in the accrued rent from January last. H. G. Warner has sent his check for $715 to be invested in these leases, leaving 485$ to be paid by Un. Coll. I take three $12.50 leases for H 
G. W. and am to assign to him another of like amt. owned by U. C. so that his income for this sum will be just $50 yearly; this he proposes to give U. 
C. in trust to found a prize for the student who for 2 yrs. next preceeding his graduation conducts himself best. By 2 o'clock had all the papers finished, signed, sealed, and left at the County Clerk's office for record: also caused a search to be made for any claims against this property and for any judgements against Jas. Kidd. J. K. is a large real estate dealer, probably the largest in Albany, has been very successful and is accounted wealthy. He seems to make his purchases with great shrewdness and forethought and has gained largely by it. Finished business and started for home at 5 o'clock. 
Met Judge P. in the street just on his way home from New York where he had been to see about the Lowber mortgage of 40,000 dolls. He says matters look bad; John Mc Kean, to whom the Comptroller of N. Y. City referred the Lowber claim upon the city for the market lot, advises the Comptroller not to pay the judgement. He says Mr. Jas. Brown has already paid over to L[owber] $50,000 which ought by right to have been paid over to College. 

After tea with wife to Dr. Nott's to see Miss Cynthia Sheldon of Philadelphia, sister of Mrs. Nott. Dr. N. speaks despondingly of himself, says he is not worth much, is much broken down and has a mind to go to a cold.water-cure. It is doubtful however if at his age this treatment can benefit him. He desired me to write to Alex. W. Bradford to get a good speaker for the Alumni meeting at Comm't. and to get Gillespie to write something about Warner's prize for good conduct. 
Sunday May 22, 1859. Rain all day till near night when the sun came out clear but cool. Home all day reading to wife. The newspapers called Religious are filled with accounts of the anniversaries of the charitable and religious societies in New York. The cheif interest centered in the American Tract Society in which for a few years the great question of slavery has caused a commotion. The resident members in New York have ruled the Society and, being averse to any action on the subject or even discussion, have applied the gag rule pretty strictly until the distant country members have become disgusted with their uncharitable measures and despotism. 
Called this evening at Dr. Notts to see Miss Cynthia Sheldon. Found Dr. 
N. still suffering under his illness, which no one seemed to know the exact nature of, depriving him very much of the use of his limbs in walking. Coming home, met Ann Carr his nurse in his former sickness ten years ago who was going to visit him. She says she saw him this morning and from all his symptoms, thinks it a case of paralysis: she judges him in a dangerous case and past recovery. If her conjectures be true, the worst is to be feared for him. This disease in a young man is almost hopeless; but in old men of 86, how much more alarming. His characteristic self.dependence is prominent even in this late hour. When the evening prayer bell rang at 5 o'clock this P. M., he insisted upon going to his usual duties in chapel and could with difficulty be persuaded to call upon Dr. Hickok to take his place. So also this morning at breakfast he would take no help from the table but, sending the lad[y] away and Moses, his black man, into the next room for some trivial purpose, endeavoured to rise and walk back to the parlour but in so doing he fell to the floor and was obliged to be lifted up. May God smooth his way to the other world and give him more rest there than he has had in this! 
Monday May 23, 1859. Cool, clear day. Dr. N. is no better; the impression seems to prevail that he has a mild stroke of the palsy in one side which nearly prevents any motion of that foot and leg. He thinks it to be an attack of inflammatory rheumatism and says he was in so much pain thro' the night as to prevent his sleeping. 
Already the question arises among the faculty, what shall be done? who shall be his successor? Three of the Faculty are not particularly 
ll I 1 
pleased with the man [i.e. Vice-President] or his books: Profs. J[ackson], G[illespie] and F[oster]. Their cheif objection is that he is blunt and obstinate, and that he cares for nothing but Metaphysics: his work on Cosmology has not been so much a cause as an occasion for fault-finding. They say if he is President he will want everything his own way and will ride over us. These charges are by no means certain and we should moreover bear in mind that either he or a new man must soon be president; allowing all the charges to be true they do not amount to much, and it very questionable if we could gain as much by trying a stranger as we should risk by the experiment. If H[ickok] be not all we could wish, still he is popular with the students, liked by a majority of the Faculty, and of acknowledged talents and standing as a literary man. It is highly propable therefore that we shall risk more than we shall gain by an attempted change. Of the Trustees, probably most of those who are the warm and personal friends of----"----would desire to vote him down; they think he has misused or at least neglected----"----: has not held up his feeble hands, has thwarted his plans indirectly and has not shown a willing spirit in the discipline of Coll. I say there are probably several Trustees who will never vote for him as President altho' he came here on the express written condition that he should succeed. This paper was addressed to the Board and was supposed by H[ickok] to have been read to them at the regular meeting as the Minutes contain a copy of it but, when they came to learn its contents, accidentally it came out that ----"----had withheld it but caused it to be placed upon the minutes as a part of the business of the meeting. 
This paper, however, was afterwards confirmed by a resolution offered by Dr. VanVechten; it was confirmed as almost necessity, for if they had rejected it, expunged it from the minutes, it must then have come out how and by whom it was placed there. If then the majority should reject his election, they break a contract and lay themselves open to a charge of bad faith. The cry of persecution would be raised by H[ickok]'s friends and College would suffer by it. I think moreover there is a denominational feeling mixed in with the personal. H[ickok] probably, as a once-Congregationalist and a now-New School Presbyterian, has not the savor of orthodoxy with the Old School Pres[byterians] (except Judge Paige), the Dutch Reformed or the Episcopalians. 
I have suspected this feeling --this odium theologicum --for a long time. [Dr. N.], however, is entirely free from this: he has not a particle of bigotry; nor a very long or strong remembrance of an injury, supposed or real. Yet no man more dislikes to be thwarted in his plans, or will sooner crush the man who does it. His plans are of more esteem in his opinion than the reputation or comfort of the man who lies in his way. Saw Dr. Swits, Dr. N's physician, this evening. He gives but little encouragement for restoration to health. His disease is doubtless a mild attack of paralysis: one leg is useless and the corresponding arm he can not raise to his head. The only favorable symptom is that this arm pains him, showing that it has some life in it. S[wits] says Mrs. N. has sent to Rhinebeck for a Doctor Vandenburg in whom she has great confidence. 

In this illness of the President who has presided now 55 years over Un. College, we all feel a deep interest, and a sadness settles over those who have known him for many years and sat at his feet with reverence. As the end draws perceptibly near, his failings are more and more passed over and forgotten and his good qualities become prominent. 
For so many young [men] thrown together as we now have, their conduct has been passably good this session. A little flurry is now got up by the Sophomores who try to exercise their mischeif and fun upon our No[rth] Bell Ringer --Green, the Senior. This is done by frightening him nights, kicking at his door, ringing his bell &c. By advice of Dr. Hickok he is to leave the bell room as soon as another can be found. 
Tuesday May 24, 1859. Fine pleasant day. 1. Library day -from 9 to 10 o'clock 2. Dr. Hickok called at Treas. office and announced tomorrow and next day evening as the time for the freshman examination for Nott Prize scholarships. It seems almost folly to make prize scholars when there is no money to pay them and, what is more, no prospect for any for some time to come. 3. Called on Dr. Backus (Judge Paige out of town and Dr. Nott sick) to show him a contract which Crane sent up for execution by the Treasurer of N[ott] Trust Fund. This contract is with Oliver Charlick, cheif of the N. Y. and Flushing R. Road, for a lot and right-of-way at Hunter's Point. Dr. B. put off authorizing me to execute it until Judge P. returns from N. Y. 
Found in Dr. B's study D. Cady Smith holding counsel and conversation on Union School and its interests. His points were 1st That, inasmuch as there is not room enough for the accommadation of all the scholars, all children under 10 years should be restricted to 3 hours pr. day, one half to attend in the forenoon and the rest in the afternoon. This was discussed thoroughly by Dr. B[ackus] and Mr. S[mith]. 2nd The salary of the Clerk ought to be $100. and no more, and a good competent man can be obtained for that money. 3d. No member of this Board shall shall sell any article to it, or furnish any of its supplies. This was pronounced illegal by Mr. S. and was assented to by all of us as improper at least. 4. The coal furnished for this Board should not only be supplied under contract but should be weighed at public scales. After talking an hour upon this subject left not much wiser. 
(1:J.In forenoon called on Miss C. Sheldon at Dr. Nott's. Found him no better. Mrs. N. came in and spoke of the matter of a burying ground for College. I gave as my opinion that the Vale afforded the prettiest spots and 
Il 19 
was in all respects a most desirable place for us. She objected that it was 
too much a place of resort especially upon the Sabbath, and chose the College ground near the "sulphur spring," only the land was mortgaged; and began to cry. I said that there was a condition in the mortgage by which 10 acres could be released for a burying ground. She then thought that the work could not be done upon it now. I said that I would pledge myself that the Bd. of Trustees or the Resident Trustees would comply with her wishes in every respect so far as this matter was concerned, that she could choose her spot and they would order it fenced and properly cared for. I tried to quiet her mind about this question as much as possible and think I succeeded; afterwards saw Dr. Backus and asked him to give her the like assurance. 
5. 
This afternoon saw Dr. Nott for the first time since Saturday night. Found him lying in bed upstairs, a sad sight indeed, the mere wreck of his old former self. One side is evidently paralysed: the mouth is slightly drawn up; one eye is more closed than the other; his tongue is somewhat affected; he talks a little thick; one arm and one leg cannot be moved; yet his mind is active and his thoughts run upon his last businesses and plans. 1st. He desired me to see that the N. Y. folks got an orator for Graduate's day at Commencement; and if no one was yet appointed, to get H. W. Warner to serve, he being request-ed by his class of 1809 to serve in that capacity for them. 2nd. To see that the Board of Trustees passed a resolution on the subject of H. G. Warners Prize Goblet for good conduct. 3. To see that Charles Burr of Saratoga Springs did something for a scholarship of $500 which he has been contemplating for sometime. 4. He then spoke of his attempting to arrange matters between Messrs. Clarke and Stanton of Union School, they having differed in the matter of government and their relative powers and duties; he showed and caused me to read a resolution which he has prepared calculated to prevent any future troubles of the kind. An hour after, saw Dr. Vedder who had seen him during the day; he says it is an undoubted case of mild paralysis and that it very much resembles Dr. Dunlap's case, and moreover that he may so far recover as to get about again. 

6. 
Saw Dr. Jacob Van Vechten who called to talk about the meeting of his class of 1809 at the coming Commencement. They have elected H. W. Warner of N. Y. to make an oration; but he desired to know where they might hold their preliminary meeting. I said in the Trustees Room in Nat. Hist. Building or in Nos. 4 or 5 Rec. Rooms. Only about 12 of the class are living. 

7. 
Settled the case of the No[rth] Bell Ringer, Green, who by folly has made himself obnoxious to some of the students; put Hazeltine in his place and hope that quiet will be restored. [No #8] 


9. Mrs. Corning (Erastus and Erastus Jr.) came over today to Dr. Nott. 

Also saw there this evening Mr. Howard Nott, the Dr.s youngest son and child. 10.Walk with wife downtown to the furniture store of Brown & Son and ordered a sopha. 
11. At 7 1/2 P.M. to a meeting of the Board of Education at Union School Building and did not return till 10 1/2. A most disagreeable and boisterous meeting, one which I have not seen before in three years I have been in the Board. At the last election a young man was elected who came in on the cry of "reform"; to show his zeal and to gain popularity, he brings forward all sorts of resolutions which, being reported and published in the daily papers, show what he is doing or trying to do for the good of the tax-payers and the school. So offensive and egotistical has his conduct become that the majority have become disgusted with him and resolved not to endure his insolence calmly. 
Wednesday May 25, 1859. Fine warm weather. At first, going up this morning at 8 1/2 oclock, called at Dr. Nott's and learned from Miss Cynthia Sheldon that he rested better last night and seemed better this morning. At request of Elipht. N. Potter, walked to the Vale Cemetery to look at a spot with the view of selecting [one] for a College Burying Ground. The spot which I most desire to see used for this purpose is on the north side of the Brook and adjoining the west line of the Cemetery grounds --' a little woody terrace containing about 5 acres perhaps with the declivity above it. This at present belongs to College and therefore will cost nothing in money: it is beautifully wooded, is secluded even from the other grounds if required, and has all the advantages which nature could give it. E. N. P. was delighted with it and felt convinced that it was much preferable to a solitary unfrequented lot upon the College grounds back of the colleges. In the afternoon with wife, John and Willie visited the cemetery again to see Henry's grave, which has been very prettily laid out with flowers &c. by Doyle, the gardener. 
At 11.30 I started to visit the city but met Dr. B[ackus] before leaving the College grounds; he stopped and (being one of the Board of Education and at our meeting last night) asked what I thought of the performance last evening, alluding to Carley's conduct. I said that I was disgusted with the whole affair, that in my whole three years' service in the Board I had not seen such an exhibition of folly, ill-manners, and obstinacy. Dr. B. I agree with you: our only course is patiently to vote down his foolish resolutions offered for no other purpose but to show himself in the papers and get glory as a reformer. His clique are determined to put out all the present old members so soon as they can and to weild the power of the Board in such a manner as to injure the school materially. 
I asked if he had healed matters between Mr. Clarke and Mr Stanton: he said the affair was in a fair way of amendment. I then said: I wish you would take [up the?] matter betw. ----"----and Vph. and reconcile differences. 

B. I cannot do it: the thing has gone too far. 
I. I am sorry to hear that: Un. College never was so prosperous and the prospect for the fall is fair. If any conflict comes up, you may depend upon it that Coll. will suffer, no matter how it is decided. 
B. His book on Cosmology is so bad that we are disgraced abroad, and another review will be out soon from the East (No. Am. Rev.?) which will completely riddle him. We are bound as Trustees to notice his books inasmuch as he has introduced them into College contrary to our standing rules on new text books. I neither approve his Metaphysics, nor his theology; still I have done all I could to reconcile him to----"----and his ways, but without effect. 
I. What you say distresses me, altho' there is nothing new in the idea that 
H. can not be Pres. of U. C. because I have repeatedly said so since the summer of 1857. I had supposed that either he would resign or, when it came to the vote, he would fail of the requisite number. But you are in a tight place; you have virtually said he. shall be ----"----'s successor by accepting his written conditions and and resolving that you understand his letter in the same sense as himself. 
B. I know that; we were placed in a false position by -,---11----'s withholding it from the Bd. but putting it on the minutes. 
I. I had supposed the cheif quarrel at Comm't. would be upon the relaxed discipline of Coll. It is quite new to me that his book and metaphysics are to be attacked. I had a note from a friend saying that there was to be conflict and advising me to keep out of the conflict. Of course I am inclined to do so. I believe for two years my relations with ----"----have been pleasant and cordial, and that he has no [remembrance] of our old differences on financial matters. 
B. I think it is so. He has not to me said anything but what was kind and full of good feeling. I hope you will act upon your friends advice. When Vph. came here, he should have known sufficiently, that he could [should?] have taken him as he is and accommodated himself to his ways, or he ought not to have come or, having come and learned this, he should have complied or have resigned. 
Much more was said to the same purpose and especially on the subject of denominational feeling in the Board as it respects Vph. B[ackus] denied that there was any such odium theologicum as I suggested, but that the members of the Bd. were free from such charge. 
Vph. came along and I left B. We talked about Dr. Nott's sickness, which is generally known to be a mild paralysis, altho' the family desire to have it called rheumatism, his old complaint. When Vph. left me at my gate, Prof. G[illesp[ie] came up and our conversation turned upon [the] Vph. appointment to the Presidency. He, J[ackson] and F[oster] are particularly set against H[ickok] in the matter of his book as a disgrace to the College and a byword among other colleges and scientific men. He says 

J. and F. are disposed to petition the Board in form, not to appoint Vph. Pres't. I objected to this proceeding as unusual and unnecessary, even upon the ground of his rejection, because I had reason to know that the Bd. meant to call up his book, and if .his name came before them for appointment, it would be urged as a reason for his rejection. He said that perhaps they might do all that was necessary by speaking to the Trustees in private, to which I assented; altho' to my mind it looks bad for Professors in a College to turn upon one whose fitness in most respects is acknowledged and whose place is so near their own. 
These subjects cause me great anxiety and heaviness. What can I do to ward off threatened evil and reconcile jarring elements? .
With my Botany Class and Mr. Clarke, Superintendent, and Mr. Edson, teacher of Un. School, made my Bot. Excursion up Troy Turnpike as far as Van Voasts stream, along that to the woods beyond his Mill Pond and thence home. Found Cyperpedium Acuali &c. Talked some with Mr. C[larke] upon the doings of last evening, at which he was present. He says Commissioners B[ackus] and C[?] (Prest.) are indignant at the pettifogging of young C[arley] and will not suffer his insolence much longer. 
Thursday May 26, 1859. Fine day. Having business with Judge Paige, went to town early this morning with a view of seeing him but learned that he had not returned from New York; afterwards at 12 o'clock saw him coming from the R. Road on his way home. As our adjourned meeting of the Board of Education is to held tonight for the purpose [of] determining the amount of money to be raised the ensuing year from July 1st next, I called on several of the Commissioners to learn and discuss their views in the matter. 1. G. Y. Vandebogart is fully in favor of raising, besides $8,000 for current ex-penses, $1000 for building purposes; moreover he says that John McDermot [of] the 3d. Ward is likewise in favor of the same amount. 
2. Ira Brownell assents to the same proposition. 3. James Walker d[itt]o. 4. Dr. Backus d[itt]o. &c&c. Met also J. Q C[arley] who has pestered us so much the last two meetings; he professes great impartiality and purity in all his propositions to the Board, wants only a fair hearing, a patient discussion and a vote upon his resolutions. Wants everything published in the daily papers even to names of movers of resolutions &c. 
Called on Dr. B[ackus] and gave the result of my conference with the Bd. individually and he agreed to draw up a preamble and resolution to be presented tonight, expressing the wants of the city for more room for scholars and the undesirableness of expending more money upon any lots 
llt3 
save those at the central building. From this subject passed to that of the diffitulties in relation to Vph. whom he thinks cannot be Pres[ident] by reason of the errors in the metaphysics and science of his book and by reason of his want of good feeling and sympathy with ----"----or at [least?] for his want of cooperation with him in his discipline and plans for 
u.c. 
I. It is a pity that this should be so, especially at this time when our Pres. is sick and perhaps nigh unto death; when all our prospects are flattering and the number of young men is increasing largely. Moreover this evil cannot be kept within the Bd. of Trustees; it has already reached the faculty in some degree and two parties are formed; from them it will go to the students and in the general agitation injury will be done which it will take years to heal. 
B. Vph's Metaphysics being erroneous, of the German trans[c]endental order, you can never make it go down with the religious public. The people will be afraid to send their children where they shall be taught such science. Vph. had no right to teach his books in Coll. without permission of the Bd., by express resolution passed since he has been a member of it. 
I. True, there he has transgressed, like all the other Profs. who have not regarded the law at all but taught just as they pleased. Perhaps I am the only person who under the rule asked to be permitted to change a text.book --Gray's Botanies for Woods. 
B. I will tell you as a great secret not to be divulged to anyone. A petition is coming from your Fae. to the Bd. to have Vph's book condemned and discarded from our teachings in Coll. 
I. I am sorry to hear this (the same as G[illespie] told me before); here the breach becomes public in our faculty, for some are strongly in favor of retaining Vph. as our Pres. Dr. L[ewis], for example, does not think he has had fair play or gentlemanly treatment in the matter of criticism of his book or otherwise; others think the same; many students also. You may depend upon it that Coll. will lose more than it will gain by a change of head at this time and in this way and for these reasons. We shall feel the shock for years. Parties will be roused among the fac.ulty and students that will act disastrously upon its interests. Here I left the matter. 
During the day met Dr. L[ewis] who also introduced the same subject and spoke with great feeling of the impolicy of the opposition to Vph. -.the injustice of it and the necessity of peace in Coll. He says Vph's book is a strong book and that in the main it is right whatever small mistakes there may be in some scientific facts. He thinks there is an old-school Princeton feeling or prejudice against Vph on account of his new-school-ism and his German philosophy, so-called; whereas his metaphysics have nothing to do with his theology, from which I [Lewis speaking?] entirely dissent. I have known right metaphysicians who held to a wrong theology and vice versa. 

In afternoon saw Vph. and had a long talk with him. Spoke of the reviews of his book for and against and said that I had heard that a slashing criticism was coming out in next no. of N. A. Review. He said he had heard nothing about it, but that he had heard that [a] Prof. of Amherst or Williams College was writing a review which was favorable. Of the Princeton Reviewer [article by?] Prof. S. A. Alexander; he says his article has been industriously circulated in pamphlet form among our Trustees, for Judge P[aige] received one. Vph. This shows a bad animus because an usual method. My opinion is that all or most of the unfavorable notices have originated or been prompted from our own Coll. Alexander is an intimate friend of J[ackson]. Then the class criticism by him showed an unkind spirit, for he has never said a word to me upon the subject since my book was published, but has worked constantly behind my back. 
I. This has worked for your advantages; by masterly inactivity and silence you have gained constantly, whereas a quarrel would have given your opponent some show of right, and occasion for retaliation. Vph. I have never given J[ackson], F[oster] or G[illespie] the least occasion for ill will. I suppose G[illespie] will never forget that he attempted to injure me in the matter of the letter (to Bp. Potter), consequently he will not like me. I cannot but think that J. has been put on by----"----. 
I. I am not sure of that. I would not say that ----11----directly pushed J[ackson] on to do as he has done; but one thing looks strange, that whereas ----"----could by a word stop j's active opposition and attack upon you, there seems to have been no such intervention in this case. I had thought that ----"----would interpose before matters came to a crisis and stop the quarrel if, for no other reason, that a conflict would injure the Coll. &c. 
Dr. Nott is much the same today as yesterday. Dr. Vandenberg of N. Y. came up tonight, to see him. 
This evening at the meeting of the Bd. of Education. Voted to raise 9,000 dolls for current expenses and for building purposes. J. (1 C[arley] again introduced his obnoxious resolution, which was voted down. He is only the tool of others who behind the curtain push him on to annoy and vex the Bd. 
Passed G[illespie] and C[handler?] talking on the sidewalk; as I passed, G. said, "Where are you going?" As I turned to look at him, [I] perceived that his face and eyes showed evident tokens of too much drink --he was evidently elated. C. left him and walked on with me, remarking that G. ought not to [go] out now. This again has troubled me, for I have long perceived the difference at times between his before-and after.dinner appearance. 
Friday May 27, 1859. South wind thro' the day with indications of rain. In 
morning called to inquire about Dr. Nott and learned that Dr. Vandenberg 
of New York had been here thro' the night, leaving this morning. The 
family gather from his remarks that his disease is rheumatism, not 
paralysis -as all the other doctors have said, yet Dr. V. has not said so 
decidedly. Dr. N. rested some and feels better this morning. The worst 
symptom is allowed to be his loss of appetite which when he is in health is 
uncommonly good. 
Vph. called into Treas. office and among other subjects talked of the attack upon him by J[ackson] and the sympathy of F[oster] and G{illespie]. Much the same ground was gone over as in former interviews, the cowardly manner of attacking him in the rear and without chalenge or notice; the impropriety of first making the onslaught in public and not bringing the matter before the assembled faculty; the unusual character of a criticism of a bro. Pror s book in the recitation room where reply is impossible and not in a review open to all. Vph., by wisely holding his peace and giving no occasion for reply, has taken and now holds a strong position. His masterly inactivity has disarmed opposition except that of a personal nature and blunted the weapons of his adversaries. 
Called upon Judge P[aige] on business, from which passed to the opposition to Vph. by certain of the Fae. He says he had a talk with G[illespie] last evening; he professes to be friendly to Vph. so far as his election to the Pres. is concerned altho he feels contempt for his book, which he thinks disgraces not only himself (Vph) but also the rest of the fac. Judge P. denied the extent of this disgrace if any existed: it could only bear upon the author and not upon his colleag[u]es. P. then said it had been charged that Vph. had introduced a new book contrary to the vote of the Board. I answered that others had done the same, even J. himself and 
F. --and, moreover, that they had done so without publishing them, a worse offense because they were not open to criticism in that condition. This fact seemed to be new to J [ udge] P. and struck him as being a complete estopal to a part of the clamor raised by J. and F. 
I then spoke of L[ewis]'s opinion yesterday mentioned; and as he is a good metaphysician himself, the best in the Fae. after Vph., I thought this should have some weight. Judge P. then said, with emphasis, that both in law and equity Vph. was entitled to the Pres[idency]. He came here with that express understanding and condition, confirmed by a subsequent resolution of the Bd. He came by the agency of ----"----and Bp. P[otter] after a 3-year negociation. There is no other alternative, said he; we can not refuse him as an act of justice, if nothing else. 
Saw J[ackson] this P. M. and spoke of G[illespie]'s condition last night. He said it was not the first time, he had seen him so before and had spoken to him about it and so had L[ewis], but with no effect. Talked also with C[handler] about the same thing; he had seen it and had heard stud[ents] speak of it. So notorious a thing ought surely to attract attention and have some effect upon him, especially as he professes to be sensitive to public opinion. What can be done? Disgrace will be sure to follow to both himself and Coll. 

Saturday May 28, 1859. Cool and windy. Call from Dr. Backus. who spoke of the trouble made by the new school comm[issione]r, Carley, in the Board. Having been elected and pushed forward by a set of men inimical to the School, he has by a set of resolutions presented from time to time endeavored to place the Board in a false position before the community and embarrass their harmonious action. Indeed he has acted with so much arrogance and bad feeling, publishing what the Board resolved should not be published, that it becomes necessary for the majority in self-defence and with due regard [to] the good opinions of the Community, to publish an explanation. Dr. B. has promised [to] prepare such a paper the coming week. This afternoon Dr. Nott [sent] for me; found him bolstered up in his chair appearing much as when I last saw him. One side is entirely helpless. He talked cheifly of the Union School and its difficulties. The misunderstanding of Messrs Clarke ~nd Stanton in regard to their respective rights and authority, he says he has removed and effected such an arrangement with them by written instructions as will be likely to prevent any future collisions. From this he passed to the matter of Carley, saying that his representations and published reports must be met with a temperate answer, that the majority may be placed in the proper light before the people, otherwise the Bd. will suffer from them. He says also truly, "Either the Carley party must be put down or they will put you down [and] the school with it." 
Sunday May 29, 1859. Fine cool day. In morning went to Bapt. Ch. with Miss Cynthia Sheldon, who has spent more than a week with her sister, Mrs. Nott. Rev. Mr. Day preached. Dr. Nott is more comfortable today than he has been for a week past; his symptoms are favorable; appetite better, more heat and circulation in his left arm; and generally more cheerful. With youth and a good constitution there would be every reason to hope 
[for] a recovery; but his greatest and most stubburn ailment is old age; this almost causes us to despair of anything more than a mitigation of his symptoms, an alleviation of his pains and aches. 
Monday May 30, 1859. Cool and comfortable weather. In Library from 9 to 10 in morning when Dr. Backus called, saying that he had submitted a paper to Dr. Nott on the impudent course of School Commr. C[arley]. The Dr. is working it over to suit his view of the matter. Dr. B. says C. can appreciate only two methods of treatment, billingsgate or sarcasm, and he does not [know] but that we shall be obliged to descend to the first. 

Dr. Lewis dropped in to Treas. Office and spoke of Dr. H's prospect for the Presidency in case Dr. N. dies. He says every motive of justice and policy urge to this result, and that he has talked with Dr. H. upon the subject and finds him ready to make some concessions for peace and reconciliation, as that it might have been better for him, all things considered, to have left alone the matters of finance agitated 4 or 5 years. L. says if. Dr. N. gets well, he will surely have a talk with him on the subject and urge above all things a speedy and sure reconciliation with H[ickok] and a decided opposition to the feeling now arising to oust H. and deny him the Presidency. It will never do, says he, to refuse him this post. Matters have gone too far and honor does not permit a retraction, much less expediency. I believe L[ewis] is right and has a just view of the case, but will others think so? I think if ----"----was well and able to.exert his usual power, he would use it to quiet the irritation and hush the rising conflict. 
Miss Cynthia Sheldon started for home this afternoon. Out Botanizing with class this evening. 
Tuesday May 31, 1859. Wind south all day with signs of rain which 
came plentifully at 6 o'clock P. M. and so on thro' the evening. 
While at breakfast received a note from Dr. Backus to call at his study between 8. and 10. o'clock. Went down immediately and met in his study Messrs. Brownell and Walker. Dr. B. first read a reply or notice of Mr. Carley's article called "suppressed proceedings," to be published under the names of the other Commissioners of Education. He said Dr. Nott had read and modified it, softening down some of the sharp points and making it more temperate and less offensive. After discussing this paper, we authorized him to subscribe our names and left. 
In afternoon called to see Dr. Nott, whom I found sitting bolstered up in his easy chair, looking better than when I last saw him and eating his dinner. He gave me a letter from C. N. Potter announcing that the Comptroller of N. Y. City would pay the Lowber Judgement today. 
The Dr. then said that as soon as we got the $40,000 we had better invest it in a mortgage upon the Hunter Point Property inasmuch as it would be perfectly safe there and would also give us a control over that estate. He said also in regard to the Lowber mortgage that Mr. James Brown, by suffering it to become cancelled of record, had made himself liable for the whole amount and should therefore assume the payment of it. It afterward appeared that Dr. N. 

opened the letter of Instructions from Fin. Com. to J. Brown, removed them and substituted his own instructions --quite contrary to the intersts of U. C. He also requested me to inform Judge Paige of this new phase in the business that he might take the proper course to get the money. Accordingly called on Judge P. at his house at 1/2 past 8 in the evening and announced to him this message of the Dr's. The Dr. also gave me a copy of an article written by Prof. Gillespie on the Warner Prize Goblet for good conduct, which he approved of but noticed, among other donors mentioned in it, an omission of Mr. Delavans gift of the Wheatley Cabinets; he therefore requested me to hand it back to him for this correction, which I did. 
He then spoke of one of our servants, Hugh McGrail, whom he suspected of drinking and quarrelling lately. I said I doubted if Hugh was accustomed to such vices and would inquire into the matter. 
Dr. Hickok called me in to talk of the morning and evening prayers which, since Dr. N's sickness, he has conducted himself alone. He said he had made arrangements with Prof. N[ewman] and Dr. L[ewis] to lead in the services in the evening on alternate weeks, but that during the Prof. N's services, the students were a little restive. I advised that he (N[ewman] ) take the morning service because the young men are not so frisky then as in the evening. 
Wednesday June 1,1859. Dull and lowering all day, threatening rain but had none. In morning called on Judge P. in reference to contracts betw. L. I. Rail Road Co, and Crane & Ely and U. Coll. for sale of land at Hunter's Point for R. Road depots and landing The facts are that this company have abandoned their present depot on the harbor at South Brooklyn and are now contemplating changing their terminus to Hunter's Point, for which reason they have contracted for two blocks at a price of 26 thousand dollars together with the dock and land now occupied by the N. Y. and Flushing R. R. Co. at the same [time] supposed to be worth $15,000 more. This latter property was promised when it was supposed that the Flushing and L. I. R. Roads would unite and become one, using the same track from Flushing & 
L. I. R. R.R. depots at H[unter] Point, but as this arrangement cannot be effected amicably, the two Roads will go on independently of each other. This necessitates a change in the consideration which the Long Island R.R. offers to Crane & Ely. They now amend the contract by substituting $15,000 instead of the N. Y. & Flushing R. R. track and depot at the Point. Again, Oliver Charlick for the N. Y. & Flushing R. Road Co. agrees (verbally) [to] take the same contract if the L. I. R.R. Co. does not and asks for a contract or lease (in case he cannot get this, I suppose) of the river front on East River at foot of Flushing St. 

together with [the] privilege of running his railroad [to] the said 
Street. 
Judge P. also spoke of the school commissioners quarrel with one of their number, Carley, on the matter of publishing resolutions &c. He says so many persons are ready to find fault with a good thing and quarrel with public servants that it is exceeding important not to give occasion for such persons to wag their tongues. 
Also, as to Vph's being Pres., he said some words and gave it as his opinion that the Board could not deny him his appointment at the proper time. For, said he, they would violate both law and morality in refusing and would outrage all public decency and propriety by sending him away. He says Prof. G{illespie] has been brought over to his views by repeated conversations with him, so that he called on Vphá lately and expressed himself a peace-maker. His (G's) influence with J[ackson] and F[oster] is considerable and may bring them to something like reason --so far at least as to forego their foolish project of petitioning the Board against Vph's book. 
This evening called at Dr. Nott's. She says he is no stronger, is very uneasy, getting off and on the bed fifty times a day and has strange sensations in his limbs. All of which may be true and he not materially worse. So active and hard-working a man, when once sick as he has rarely been, must be restive. 
Thursday June 2, 1859. Fine day, toward night showery. This morning at 9, met Vph near Treasury Office. He informed me that he had had rather a pleasant talk with [Dr. N.] on a matter of college business and that he seemed more cordial and pleasant than he had seen him before for two years. I had said to him (Vph.) that Dr. L[ewis] proposes to speak with ----'----at the first proper opportunity about the conflict and onslaught anticipated in the meeting of the Board next Comm't and to persuade him to crush the serpent of dissention at once and forever. Vph. said that he did not counsel such a course in Dr. L., but that if he intended to do so, he thought now was the time. Soon after I saw Dr. L. and mentioned the matter to him again; he answered that he should take an opportunity next week to speak with him and urge him to use his influence to crush all the rising feeling [and] opposition to Vph. Prof. 
G[illespie] (not any too well disposed to Vph.) dropped into Tr. office, in the P.M. and asked how Tappan would do for a President. said he probably had the right talent for planning, but I did [not] know how his government would suit us --that we were peculiar and needed peculiar treatment, that he had got Mich[igan] Univ. into a fracas about Secret Societies, causing several students to leave college and that on a subsequent occasion he had an unpleasant and widely known quarrel with one Morton to whom we gave the Degree of A. B. a few years after. I said also that of all men of the teaching class in New York I thought Pres. Anderson of Rochester the best man after Vph. 

G: 
"Anderson could not come or would not leave Rochester." 

I. 
"Neither will Tappan leave Mich." 

G. 
"Yes, he will; his wife does not like[it] there; Brunow has left, and he would be glad to do [it] if he could get an eastern Presidency. 


Dr. Nott sent for me. I took several papers, matters of business, and consulted him about them: about the amendment to the Long Island contract, to which he assented, about his selling Jno. Shrimpton's bond and mortgage for $625 to Un. Coll., which he said he would do. Dr. Nott. I only want to see the College get $200,000 more of bonds and mortgages, then I dont care if no more property is sold at Hunter Point for a good while. Let it grow; it will become a great property. 
I. Oliver Charlick, owner of N. Y. and Flushing R.R., wants a lease of 60 feet front on East River at foot of Flushing St. for a dock and depot, at a rent of $400 pr. an. Dr N. What do you think of it? 
I. Mr. Anable thinks it a good rent but demurs at the length of the lease. I think well of leasing because if the rent is fair the property is growing better and at the expiration of the lease we get it back with betterments. Dr. N. I agree with you. 
I. Charlick wants the Long Island R. R. contract: he stands ready to take the property if they fail, so that we can hardly fail of making a sale of a large amount of property there this summer. Dr. N. The boys (students) burnt some empty lime barrels out by "Graduates Hall" last night; that will teach "old Reagles" not to leave such temptations in their way. When I get out to Chapel I will stop all that. (Poor old man, I fear he never will enter College Chapel more upon his feet.) 
I. They did no great harm, only made some noise. Dr. N. The Catholic Priest has been up to see me. He looks pretty well and may continue much as he is now for some time altho' I do not think at his age he can gain strength. 
Mr. Delavan is down today. Saw him a moment; he looks hearty and says Dr, N. is going to get well. After he had gone, found a note from him by post in which he thanks me for my last letter and closes by a queer Postscript, thus: "I thought God had no teacher. If 

God had a teacher, who was the teacher of His Teacher." What can the man mean? I never had any theological discussion either with him or any other person. I can only suspect that he has reference to some criticism or deduction from Hickok's Book on Cosmology, which I have neither read nor expect to read. He has perhaps heard that the book teaches that God had a teacher and, thinking also that I may be a believer in the book, has put the above question as a poser. How often we judge others by our own feelings and views. I never read a line in anyof H[ickok] 's books and probably never shall; I have [not] read a criticism of his late work pro or con and do not desire to do so, saving perhaps a mere newspaper squib. I have therefore no knowledge of his works except by hearsay. So far, therefore, as my feelings towards him are concerned, I have been in no way influenced for or against him by anything he has written, and enter not into this controversy, this war of books. I care nothing about their metaphysics or their facts; my tastes and inclinations go another way; but I do care for the welfare of Union College and hence desire that this conflict of opinions should become hushed and neither the one nor the other party be conquered. Victory on either side would be ruinous to the college. á 
Friday June 3, 1859. Fine day after a rainy night with thunder and lightening. (1.) To town and called upon City Treasurer for interest upon bonds owned by Un. Coll. --no money, as usual. Old Treasurer's books in great confusion and unbalanced. 
(2.) Called upon Marlett, Secretary of Board of Education, and conversed upon his duties and salary. Met Carley in State Street and invited him to meet the Committee on secretary's duties, tonight at Dr. Backus'; he declined, excusing himself as best he could. 
(3.) Having received from James Brown Esq. of N. Y. a letter announcing that he held 40,000 dollars which both College and Lowber claimed, called upon Judge P. to show it, found him absent at Schoharie. 
(4) Saw Vph. who again alluded to [----11----'s cordiality to him at last interview and seemed rather to wish that Dr. L[ewis] should see and converse with him upon the unpleasant state of things in College with reference to him (Vph). I then proposed the queer question which Mr. D. wrote to me yesterday and asked if he knew what it meant (names omitted), saying that I suspected it had reference to his book, to which he answered that there was nothing of the kind in it, nothing that could be tortured into such a charge, that he only had said that God worked in his physical as in the moral world according to principles which he had made and could therefore work only in accordance with them: that if this could be twisted into the assertion that God had a teacher, then it a strong desire to put him into a false position. In afternoon asked Millard if he knew what the question [meant?]; he said it evidently looked towards Vph's book and could only have been proposed by one ignorant of it or determined not to like it or its author. 

(5.) Prof. G[illespie] went in to see ----"----this P.M. and inform him that he proposed to go to West Point tomorrow to attend the examination of the Military Academy. He says ----"----did not know him but mistook him for a student, talking all the time about his Commencement piece &c. G. could not account for this, whether from his defective sight or from an absence of mind. If the latter, this is the worst symptom that has yet developed itself. The fact is that.he is growing weaker daily, so his nurse says, and so probably she feels. 
(6). Saw Dr. Backus this evening and said to him that C[arley] excused himself from meeting in committee with us but desired that we would do the business and he would assent to it. B. demurred at this because it looked like shirking. I then said that I would see him again and if possible bring him down, but if he would not come, we must go to his office. Accordingly saw C. He again excused himself on account of business and said he would coincide with us. 
Saturday June 4, 1859. Cold N .E. wind. Fires and overcoats needed Dr. Nott is reported not so well again, nervous and restless, without sleep at night, and on the whole not materially better. It is pretty generally felt that he cannot long survive this sickness. He may linger months, he may by a renewed attack of paralysis be carried off suddenly in a few days. He is perfectly helpless and requires constant attendance --persons to lift and shift him in his rest.lessness. 
Dr. Hickok announced that Van Winkle, student, had his trunk broken open and over thirty dollars stolen therefrom. No one is suspected, but it seems probable that we have a theif in College, for this is not the first depredation of the kind within a few months. Among so many young men it is not strange that there should be a few "black sheep": we always have them, sometimes bold and nimble burglars, seldom found out. 
Met Dr. Backus in Young & Graham's Bookstore this afternoon. He spoke of an article in the "Daily News" of this morning in which he was attacked as one of the Board of Education by an anonymous 
lt33 
writer; I said that we should be obliged to call upon Carley, the other member of the secretary committee, for he would not meet with us, and that he might take his own time for it. Edward Magoun, my nephew, came tonight to spend Sunday. All well at home. 
Sunday June 5, 1859. Cold raw day with almost sure prospect of frost tonight, which is clear and still. Home with wife, who is not well. 
Called at noon to see Mrs. Nott and inquire after Dr. Nott. Found him much the same as yesterday --restless, nervous, and very exacting upon his attendants. His appetite is tolerable and so long as that lasts he may hold his present strength, which however is not very considerable. Mrs. N. says he complains of his head's aching, an unusual thing with him and a bad symptom. This seems to have troubled him more or less ever since his fall in April when it is probable his head was permanently injured. His nurse, Ann C., says he [is] very fidgetty and hard to please, quite the reverse of his disposition when well. It would appear that his sickness has changed his nature. It is not to be wondered at: a man of 86 cannot be expected in sickness to retain the strength of will and calmness of one of SO. 
Received yesterday notice of marriage of my cousin, Mary Virginia Libby of New York, to a Mr. Amerman of Passaic, N. J. She has been a teacher for some years in N. Y., having graduated at Rutgers' Institute with the highest honors. She is the only child of my uncle William's second wife. 
Monday June 6, 1859. Fine clear cool day. In morning saw Vph. who spoke of a queer story which some of the ignorant Irish Catholics have started, to the effect that the Priest (Catholic) has been to see Dr Nott (a fact), and that the Dr. is about to be reconciled to the church (Popish). Moreover that tomorrow the Bishop is coming over from Albany to confirm him!! One of the Irish servants on the "Hill" says that the Priest prayed for Dr. N. publicly in church yesterday (which may be true). 
Vph. also spoke of having seen Judge Paige since his return from Gilboa, that he had had a letter from C. N. Potter, Jan. Brown's agent or attorney, in relation to the Lowber business. At 11 o'clock (after Library hour) A. M., went down to see Judge P. who says that 
C. NP. wrote that Mr. Lowber and attorney and himself would come up on Tuesday (tomorrow) to make arrangements if possible for the settlement of the vexed question as to how much Union College is to have of the 40,000 dollars which we claim from James Brown. The Judge telegraphed that he would be in Troy on Tuesday and that if C. 

N. P[otter] was determined to put in a suit of "Inter Pleading" between U. C. and Lowber he had better commence immediately. The Judge also advised that the Treas. get an order from the Finance Committee to take legal proceedings to collect this money from Jas. Brown. 
Edwd. P. Magoun, my nephew, left at 3 P.M. for home. In afternoon --4 o'clock --saw Dr. Nott a few minutes at his request: found him lying on his bed and looking much as he has done. thought his speech was thicker than usual, his mouth down one side and one eye shut, all indications of paralysis. He spoke of a letter C. 
N. Potter had wrote him in relation to the Lowber business, in which he spoke of L's coming up on Wednesday. The Dr. wondered what they were coming up for and seemed annoyed that he had not been informed of the exact state of the business and what Lowber claimed as an offset to his bond and mortgage to the College. I said that Judge P., who had been down to N. Y. and seen C. N. P[otter], stated that L. claimed an entire abatement of the 40,000 dollar mortgage because some Judge had decided that he had no valid claim to the lot sold to (and paid for [by]) the city beyond Tompkins street. Dr. N. said that was ridiculous, for if true, he could only claim a proportional abatement --whereas, inasmuch as he had been in no way annoyed and hindered in the possession of the lot he could not set up this de[s]cision now as in any way affecting the bond and mortgage. 
Mrs. N. then spoke of the subject of a burying ground for the College families and students and said that she and the Dr. had concluded to select a spot upon College ground --the spot so often before talked of near the "Powder Spring." Her idea is correct that it is a beautiful spot and that it needs almost nothing from art: nature has done everything for it. In regard to a fence, we agreed that if it were not for protection from marauders it would be better to omit it, that it would look better left open and just as nature had left it. I suggested that it might be well for safety to build a little cottage near and put a family there to look after the grounds, to which both agreed. 
At 6 1/4 P.M. with Botany class down Troy R. Road but found little of interest. 
Tuesday June 7, 1859. Fine day mild and comfortable. Vph. called and spoke again of the foolish report that is current in town that Dr. 
N. had requested the public prayers of the Catholic Priest. He says that the Dutch Ref. Minister, Slingerland of Scotia, came over last evening and called at his [house?], to inquire about the report. Vph. 

told him he knew nothing about it, only that he had heard the thing spoken of by his Irish servant. S[lingerland] then said he must know more about it that he might be able to contradict the story, and left for Dr. N.'s house where he remained an hour and a half in conversation with Mrs. N. About ten o'clock he came back to Vph's and reported the following facts. The Catholic Priest called upon Dr. 
N. as a well-wisher and, after the ordinary topics were talked about, asked the Dr. if he (the Priest) might not pray for him, to which Dr. N. said yes. Accordingly on the sabbath the priest made a public announcement that Dr. N. had requested the prayers of the Church. From this originated the story that Dr. N. had turned Catholic and was about to be confirmed by the Bishop. Another story also is ripe: that as soon as Dr. N. is dead and Dr. H. becomes president of College, he will turn away all the old servants. 
Had a message from Dr. Backus to meet at his house and go to Mr. Carleys store to act as a committee upon the duties of Secretary of the Board of Education. Had a long talk with C[arley] upon the action of the Board and his factious course in relation to the published proceedings of the Board. It is pretty evident that outside and unfriendly influence is at work, using this young man to keep up a continual stir and opposition to the majority of Board and to the true interests of the school. 
On the Hill at 4 P. M. and found there Lowber, who has come up to see Judge Paige on the matter of the $40,000 mortgage. We spoke of other and indifferent things but not of financial matters. Coming down at 5, met Ann C[arr], Dr. N's nurse, who gave an unfavorable account of the Dr. She says that Mr. Lowber called to see him and, speaking on the matter of business as ----"----thus naturally would 
(L. being his partner) he became nervous and much excited, worse indeed than she had seen him before, so that he could not rest in any position or place. His mind has great effect upon his body; sometimes it is wandering and his speech incoherent, as in the case mentioned a day or two since. In prayer his mind wanders away and it is to be feared that before long, he may break down altogether and lose the soundness of his mind. He is troubled also that his sons Ben. and Joel do not come to see him --a most unfeeling neglect which even strangers observe and speak about. 
In the evening at 7 1/2 o'clock met the Board of Education at Union School building. Had the usual unpleasant talk and discussion about publishing proceedings, showing how easily one or two men may throw a body like our Board into an unpleasant state of feud and wrangle. 

Wednesday June 8, 1859. Rain from south. In evening at one [of] our so-called examinations of students who by absence a term or more have studies to make up. Found a host of these delinquents in No. 16, Prof. Foster's Rec. Room in Philosophical Hall. Examined a class in Conics, and another in Higher Algebra, came away at 10 o'clock. 
Thursday June 9, 1859. Cold, damp, and unpleasant. Called twice on Judge Paige on business. He desired to know if Mr. Lowber is here still and what is his business --answered that he is here still, waiting for C. N. Potter, who is expected tomorrow, but that I knew nothing of his business and could only guess that it probably pertained to Dr. Nott and the College; said also that I supposed he would call on him (Judge P.) so soon as Mr. C. N. P. appeared, and not before. I then called Judge P's attention to the College claim of $1,000 upon the bond of Potter, Paige, & Reed, Gilboa. Mr. Saml. Jackson, being by, answered that Mr. Reed, the manager of the business of the firm, had not settled his accounts as yet, and was very slow to do so; that he had been over to look at the property and accounts and had made an appointment to visit Gilboa again on the _12th July, for a settlement. 
This evening at No. 16 again to attend examination of University Students who desire to take full and regular standing in their respective classes. Twelve or 15 persons present. Home at 9 o'clock. 
Friday June 10, 1859. Rain. Very cold, cold enough for overcoats and fires. A call from wife's cousin Fred J. Hosford of New York. 
At Dr. Nott's request called to see him this morning. Found him lying in his bedroom upstairs. Yesterday he was brought down to his study. He appeared feeble and much despondent, said his mind was much shattered and could not recall what he desired. Said he was very sick and wished folks would not say he was comfortable or not sick. He then spoke of a statement of the cost of and receipts for West College in the different sales to the City and back to College. He wished this to be done right off as he might not last long. Here Mrs. 
N. interposed and said the Dr. was desponding this morning on account of the weather, being disappointed in not finding the weather suitable for him to ride out; that his mind ran upon certain matters of business and he was uneasy till they were done. She referred also to certain business with Mr. Lowber which had very much agitated him and made him worse. This noon Dr. Vandenberg from Hyde Park came, and they say, pronounced him better than when he saw him last. All this reporting of his amendment, however, is made of no account by the fact that he is growing weaker 
/h37 
constantly, so he and Mrs. N. both assert. Poor old man, I fear he cannot long be with us, that his days are very limited and that we shall never see him resume his duties as President. 
Dr. Backus called with certain Resident Trustees' orders which I 
left last night for him to sign; said he would show them to Dr. N. and 
if he would sign them then he (B) would do so likewise. 
Prof. Gillespie, who has spent one week at the West Point Examinations, returned last night. 
Vph. says he saw Dr. N. yesterday when he (N.) said he would like to have a tackle rigged out of his window to let him down by into his carriage. Vph. suggested that he could be carried down without much labor, to which the Dr. answered that it was attended with more trouble than the other way. 
Saturday June 11, 1859. Cool but clear. Report of frost last night from various quarters. This [morning?] at 8 o'clock went to Albany. 1. Went to County Clerk's office and searched the records for a lease from the Gibbons Estate of West Parcel of Lot 232 and 233, West Troy, which [I] found in Book 66 of Deeds, page 232 
2. 
Went thence to James Kidd's office to get assignments of leases sealed. 

3. 
Then called upon Judge Robinson to inquire if he had any record of sale of the above lease to Mr Kidd, found he had the record, which he promised to deposit in the County Clerk's office immediately. 

4. 
Home again at 12 o'clock. At depot in S[chenectady] met Mr. Geo. Gilbert who informed me that Dr. Nott was very restless and nervous, requiring much laborious attention. He wants to go out, but as the day is cold it is not thought best he should do so. To relieve his inquietude, the attendants roll him in his wheelchair from one room to another, or lift him from bed to chair and from chair to bed many times a day. He is weak and cannot help himself more than an infant. 

5. 
Saw in Albany C B. Cochrane a few minutes. He stated that he got another pamphlet; I asked what pamphlet. "About Hickoks book," said he. 


I. The Doctors enemies seem determined to crush him by a war of pamphlets and secret rumors. 
C. I dont care anything about his book but this method of underhand warfare is not honorable or just. 
When I came home, met Hickok in the street and asked him if he had seen this new pamphlet and what it is. He said that Judge P. had received one thro' the mail and had shown it to him, that it was merely the article published in the N. Y. Examiner in Jan. last, reprinted, that he is now printing a new edition of his Cosmology with new preface and notes to meet some of the objections which have been made and to correct some of the scientific errors: and that Judge P. asked to have a few copies of this new matter struck off in pamphlet form for distribution where the others had been so 

secretly sent. 
Whatever one may say against this book, one thing is quite certain, that a very unfair warfare has been waged against H[ickok], a secret, intriguing influence upon the Trustees to poison their minds and pre-judge H's case as successor to Dr. N. It is clearly understood that among ourselves there is a malign and personal influence at all times plotting to undermine H's standing and set such machinery at work as will oust him from his place. 
Sunday June 12, 1859. Cool, clear. Home with wife all day. Read Thompson's "The Land and the Book." At noon called on Mrs. N. to inquire about Dr. N., found he had just been taken out in the carriage for an airing and was now lying down asleep. 
Monday June 13, 1859! Wind south and rain all day till near night. Vph. called to know if C. N. Potter had been up yet and if so if he had seen Judge P[aige]. 
I. I have not heard that he has reached town, have been told that he is expected up today. 
At noon called upon Judge P. who said C. N. P. had not written to him. He requested me to send him a copy of Dr. Hickok's letter of acceptance of his professorship and of the confirmatory resolution passed by the Trustees in 1856. In afternoon called again upon him with these copies when he informed me that C. N. Potter had called at noon and stated that he had served upon Mr. Lowber his bill of "Interpleader." Mr. L's pretense for repudiating his bond and mortgage of 40,000 dolls. (according to C. N. P.) is: 1st, a decision that he owns only to Tompkins street, towards the East River; and 2nd, some unfulfilled contract which Dr. N. made with him upon a final settlement of their affairs. In a word. the magnificent N[ott] T[rust] Fund of 610,000(?) dollars, with the exception of what we can get out of Hunter Point, will probably turn out a magnificent humbug, rotten at the core and based upon sand. There is now every reason to suppose that we have a long lawsuit before us which probably in the end will absorb all that the N[ott] T. F. can show to pay the lawyers. Such has always been the nature of Un. Coll. finances --splendid on paper and in prospect, much talked up, but in the end disappointing all our expectations. Judge P. then referred to the matter of suing Mr. L. for his bond and mortgage &c., and said he would wait till his lawyer (Barber) sent up his statement of L's claims and account. In regard to Vph., he said that Cochrane thought as he did --that Vph. could not be moved: one of Prof. J[ackson]'.s. family had lately said to a friend of his (Judge P.) that in case Vph. was made Pres. he (J.) would resign; to which I answered there is no fear of that, not the least. Judge P. Professorships are not so easily obtained that they should be so lightly resigned. How does Dr. B[ackus] feel towards Vph.? 

I. None the most friendly, I fear. Judge P. What is he doing? 
I. Nothing to my knowledge. I fear,I suspect. that J[ackson] and F[oster] will petition the Board against Vph's book. I know nothing about it, but I am afraid this will be done. Judge P. Did you get Dr. Nott to sign that paper (order on Treasurer to collect Lowbers $40,000)? 
I. Not yet; I am to call tomorrow morning between 8 and 9 o'clock when he is in his best state. 
This afternoon called upon Mrs N. to ask when I could see Dr. N. She thought the morning the best time, said his mind was almost gone, was wandering especially when troubled by business. She expressed great doubt of his ever being any better and thought his strength failing--the same account was later confirmed by his physician Swits, who said if his appetite failed he could not last long. 
Prof. G[illespie] spoke of Bp. Potter's return, which is expected within a week, and thought if well enough he could be of service in settling the tangled matters relating Vph's succeeding in the Presidency. I said yes; if well inclined to peace, he could heal our difficulties but if, on the contrary a strong partizan against Vph., his presence would only complicate and deepen the entanglement. There seems really therefore doubt whether his coming will be for good or evil. Of course it will be a comfort to see him once more before he leaves. 
The foolish story that Dr. N. is turned Catholic is quite current among the town people. It has gone so far now as his baptism and the next thing expected is the arrival of Bp. Hughes from N. Y. to confirm him in the faith!! 
Tuesday June 14, 1859. Cleared off hot and "muggy" --a damp steamy heat. 8 1/2 o'clock A. M. by appointment called upon Mrs. N. with certain papers for Dr. N. to sign. She did not think him well enough to [see?] me but took the papers saying she would get his name to them when he was well enough. 

9 to 10. in College Library. Prof. G. dropped in -asked about news, said he was a peacemaker in the conflict of views in regard to Vph.'s fitness for Pres. and meant to see Vph and ask him to write such a preface to 2nd Ed. of his book as would disconnect the rest of the Faculty from any responsibility in the scientific errors of it. I said now was the time because he is preparing a new edition of it to be published soon. 
10 o'clock Dr. N. sent for me but before I got to the house he was reported asleep and I did not see him. Mrs. N. said she was glad of it because it did him no good to talk with anyone on business or even to see persons. If you call on him, said she, dont stop to talk with him, excuse yourself and leave as quick as possible. She had got him to sign two of the papers but the third he declined unless directed to do so by C. N. Potter, his attorney. This was an order given by the Finance Comm. and Resident Trustees directing the Treasurer to take legal measures to collect the $40,000 due from Mr. Lowber. 
11 o'clock A. M. Dr. Nott is carried out to his little low three.wheeled carriage by his black man, Moses Viney and others, and driven first around the "Grad. Hall" foundation, then down Union St. and up Front Street [to] home. Moses told me later that he stood the ride, slept immediately on his return, then ate a hearty dinner. 
12 o'clock. Called upon Dr. Backus to get his signature to the above-mentioned orders; he signed the same as Dr. N. did but declined the Lowber order on the grounds that so important [a] matter should only be decided by a meeting of a majority of the Finance Comm. and Res. Trustees: I said, it was probably a matter of no great consequence because I did not suppose we should be called upon at present to sue Mr. L. inasmuch as Mr. Jas. Brown had put in his Interpleader statement and served the same on Mr. L., but that Judge P. thought proper that the Treasurer, in whose name the business must be done, should be fortified by the authority of the Trustees. I asked then if he knew Mr. Lowber's claim. Dr. B. I understand from C. N. P[otter] and from another source that he (L[owber]) made long since a private contract with Dr. N. by which: 1st, he (Dr. N.) was to have 1/2 of all the net profits of the land sales at the Stuyvesant Cove and 2nd, by an amendment the Dr. was to have $150,000. L[owber] claims that he has overpaid Dr. N. and now, as the Dr. is in no condition to repay the money, he expects and desires that the deficit should be made up out of the College funds --the Nott Trust Fund bond and mortgage of 40,000 dollars. A third party has told me that L. and his lawyer went to Chancellor Walworth (last week) and laid out the whole claim before him and that the Chancellor favored ee[?] of College but as a counsellor. dont vouch for the truth of this rumor but I know that if Chane. W. gave such an opinion it should have great weight because he is a man that would decide a case according to right even to his hurt. 

I. I have so heard of his integrity; his opinion would have great weight with the Trustees. If there is good grounds for L's claim it ought to be decided quietly, for College would gain nothing by going to law with such a man already notorious for his City speculations and judgement. 
12.30 P.M. Called on Judge P. who asked if Dr. N. had signed that order. 
I. He declines to do so without C. N. P[otter]'s advice. Judge P. No matter, it is not best to press the matter with him. I suppose he feels a delicacy on account of his relation to Lowber. You can get Cochrane's and Delavan's names, after which you had better ask Dr. B[ackus] again to sign it. He ought not to shirk responsibility in this case. I dont know that it is necessary, for the by-laws give you sufficient authority to protect College property and funds from loss. á 
I. Have you heard anything from C. N. P. since he left or from Lowber or his lawyer? Judge P. Nothing. The case seems clear enough for College. The law is on our side and it is not just and right that College should suffer on account of a private and unfulfilled contract with Dr. N. That is doubtless what L. wants: for College to assume Dr. N's responsibility. 
5 o'clock. Prof. F[oster] came into Treas. Office, spoke about examinations just past and about his wife, who is in feeble health. The Drs. call it a "consumption of the blood" --a deficiency of that life-giving principle. 
6. 
Ann Carr, Dr. N's nurse in his many sicknesses, called in having just seen him. She gives doubtless a true account when she says he is failing both in body and mind; the latter is flighty and unsteady, hence it is that for the last three days no one has been allowed to see and converse with him out of the house. 

7. 
Saw Delancy Walkins, who saw in New York Printup of Rome Ga., a graduate of Coll. He is one of the Examiners at Military School West Point and sent his respects to me. Called upon Mrs. Fuller, an aged lady at corner of Front and Church Streets, now for some time bedridden. Found her weak and quite helpless. It was at her door that I saw Watkins; he says her grandmother, Mrs. Governor Yates, is now 89 years of age, three yrs. older than Dr. N. 



Wednesday June 15, 1859. Warm day, clear. 9 o'clock A.M. Met McKindley of Charlton, a graduate 10 years since, upon the College campus. He is a farmer; his brother William, also a graduate of U. C., is a lawyer in Chicago. He talked of farming, the late severe frosts, Graduates Hall &c. 
10 o'clock. S.S. Riggs called, to ask when the Annual Catalogue would be ready for him to print, also whether the Fin. Committee would order the printing of a new edition of the General Catalogue. The Annual Catalogue is ready for the printer now, but when the other will be printed it is not so easy to say. R[iggs] is a clever honest man, and good printer, but much reduced in circumstances by reason of a strong competition and a want of energy and business tact. 
11 o'clock. Out on a dunning expedition, first to the City Treasurer for the interest upon City Bonds: no money as usual. 2nd.to D. M. Chadsey for his interest and for that of Fr. Myers' Estate of which he is executor: a promise as usual. 3d. Sought W. C. Givens for int[erest] on bond and mortgage --not in town; and gave up the pursuit in despair of raising the wind. 
11:30 To Schenectady Bk to make a deposite where Gen. C., the President, spoke of yesterday's election at the Mohawk Bank at which there was great excitement and a crowd of stockholders. The two parties were the Maxon party and the Swits party, of whom the former carried the day, leaving out of the B[oard] of Direction Swits and Dr. Nott. The latter not because he was obnoxious to any of the stockholders but on account of his sickness and the improbability of his ever meeting the Board again. Gen. C. says that the stock is now reduced to 51,000 of which at least 15,000 must be [de]ducted for claims and 5,000 for property locked up in the Banking House, He says moreover that Judge Paige has been employed to commence a suit for a Receiver and á to close up the concern. Of this latter statement there is some doubt, as I afterwards heard from Jackson. 
12 M. Saw Judge Potter and talked with him in reference to the claim of Union College against Mohawk Bk. for back tax dividends. This suit has been referred to Judge Rosenkrans for decision and, Potter thinks, [Rosenkraanz] desires to decide against the College, but is withheld by a letter which he (R.) wrote to him (P.) some time since intimating that he had made up his mind to decide in favor of Un. College. Mohawk Bk. claims exemption from payment of tax dividends: 1st, because the College stock was hypothecated; 2nd, because under the statute of limitations they could in no case ask for more than 6 years' dividends; and 3dly, because the not claiming the dividends was virtually a relinquishment of the right of College to them! My own opinion is that College will lose the whole and only because ----"----always had need of money and always used this stock for his own convenience in borrowing it. 

Saw Saml. Jackson, attorney, in relation to int[erest] on Paige, Potter & Reed's bond -which may be paid next week; also in relation to foreclosing two mortgages in Green Point property -.Fagan & Cavanagh's mortgages. His price for this process is about 65 dollars each unless extraordinary charges are made. 
2. Prof. G[illespie] tells me he saw Vph. last night in relation to the scientific blunders of his book. Vph. promised to add a paragraph in the preface exculpating the College Professors from all knowledge or responsibility in the same. This seemed to quiet G., who is peculiarly sensitive as to his reputation as a scientific man; but he says J[ackson] does not seem at all reconciled to Vph., and he (G.) wants to know what personal matters have interfered with the good feeling between them. I couldn't say; in fact, thought there was nothing, and that the ill-will came of mere fancy: he does not like Vph. because he dont and for no other reason. 3 to 4 P. M. Class in Botany. 
5. Have heard that Bp. Alonzo Potter has arrived from Europe and has telegraphed for his son E. N. P. to go down to N. Y. to see him. No one knows what is the state of his health. Dr. Nott rode out today as usual; his black man Moses Viney reports that he stood the ride well and is about as usual. Dunning letters --second batch this session to students and parents. 
Six [o'clock] to tea and 6 1/ 4 to 8 o'clock P. M. botanising with class along College Brook and thro' College woods around the Quarry lot. 
8. To Willards' at West End with wife for a glass of ice cream and home. 
Thursday June 16, 1859. Fine, comfortable day --cool at night. 
10 o'clock . Dr L[ewis] and Prof P[eissner] both called this morning and spoke of the current report in town that Bp. Alonzo Potter is to be Dr. Nott's successor; even Mr. Payne, the Epis. Minister, is said to have spoken with assurance of the matter. It is not at all likely that he has any such intentions or that he would accept of such an appointment: because if he is well enough to do such duty as is required of him in College he would certainly retain his B[isho]prick, and if he is not well enough to perform the duties of the office he would not be likely to accept it. 
Prof. G. proposed that College should pay for freight & c. on a box of Engineering Models which he has imported from Paris, for the 
ll 4-'-t 
use of them in the Engineering Dept. 10 1/2 oclock Dr. N. is taken out to ride. Three weeks since, yesterday, he told Moses his colored man that he should not live three weeks. Altho' not strictly true, this may be prophetic of his end, which doubtless draws near. 
11 o'clock. Dr. Vedder told me that there is mischeif with the City Treasurer's accounts, which an accountant is now overhauling; he (Dr. V.) says his ordinary account is already found short 600 d[ollar]s. and that an error of 700 ds. is also found in the Education accts. Afterwards saw the Mayor in relation to the interest due on City bonds and said to him that so long as there was money in his hands belonging to the Board of Education it was not right that the College should be obliged to wait indefinitely for the money. He promised to see the City Treasurer on the subject. 
á 12. On way to the Bank met Hon. Bradford R. Wood at the depot. He asked about Dr. N. and said he was going up to call, that the Board would have important duties to perform at Comm't and that I hoped they would perform them without so much conflict and discussion as we had here. 
W. What is the trouble? I have heard some rumours of dissatisfaction with Hickok, but know nothing of the particulars. Why dont they like him? 
I. They dont like him because they dont: that is the best and truest reason that can be given; His book is now used as a club to knock his brains out, but it was not the origin of the ill feeling by any manner of means. 
W. What is the fault found with the book ? 
I. Threefold. 1. Bad metaphysics. 2. Bad theology. And 3. Errors in science. As to the metaphysics, I know of but one man in the Fae. who is capable of judging of them besides H[ickok] himself and that is Dr. L[ewis], who says in the main "I agree with H. altho' I do not agree with him in theology." Theology, however, has nothing to do with the book in a polemical way. The reputed errors of fact, which are few, Dr. H. has acknowledged and rectified. 
W. I imagine there is some denominational feeling in all this conflict. As a Congregationalist I care nothing of Old or New School Presbyterianism, but when I have seen Dr. Campbell of Albany, who is a politician, who never stirs except as a politician, moving in this matter in opposition to H., and he is hand and glove with Dr. B[ackus], one of our Trustees, I then made up my mind that there was a theological question to be settled in making a President of Union College. 
I. I have heard others say that there was a denominational bias among the Board, and the Old Sch[ool] Pres[byteria]ns will never allow a New Sch[ool] man like H. to become Pres. if they can prevent it. Still there is no one who will allow this statement to be true: doubtless if there be any such feeling they are not aware of it and can truly say they are influenced by no such motives. Sometimes we are affected by motives which to ourselves are hidden and unsuspected by ourselves. 

W. It would be disastrous to U.C. for any such a conflict as this to be permitted. It is called Union Coll. a union of all denominations; if therefore the public should suspect that we are influenced by denominational and theological differences in our choice of officers, they would at once withdraw their patronage and countenance. When some years ago, it was a settled matter that Bp. Potter (Alonzo) would probably succeed Dr. N., Dr. Campbell of A[lbany] asked me if we were going to make an 'Episcopal President for U.C. I said that altho' I abhored prelacy and the hierarchy, yet I should not allow any denominational feeling influence my vote in this matter and that I should vote for him because I thought him the best man for the place irrespective of his religious belief. 
(As we passed the 2nd Dutch, W. said) "What ch. is this?" "The 2nd Dutch. "The one about which there has been some trouble lately?" "The same". "It is absurd to suppose that the voice of the congregation shall have no effect in the choice of a minister; even the Episcopalians regard the wishes of the parishioners." 
I. It will be a hard thing for the Board to break their contract with Dr. H[ickok], a contract which 4 yrs. after it was made was again confirmed by a vote of the Board. 
W. It will. We should be disgraced in the eyes of all honest and honorable men. This coll. wants aágirding up of discipline; it is too lax; we have a bad reputation abroad for morality. Only see: Williams Coll., of which I am a Trustee, has 87 students from N. Y. , from all around Un. Coll. 
I. True, we do need better discipline and Dr. H[ickok] sees and regrets it as much as anyone. Another thing we want, a thorough overhauling of our old barracks which are a disgrace to a states prison. 
W. I am sensible of that, but Dr. N. would never have any alteration made; his ideas are all behind the age in this respect. He thinks students must have but one room --no closet, no bedroom but all things --wood stove, bed, &c. in one little 7 x 9 room. Now I dont believe students would be any worse for having a decent room and furniture with the usual accompaniments of civilized life. I go for economy, but let us also have decency and comfort withal. 
I. Neat, cleanly, and comfortable apartments would be respected by 

students. We see that in the usage of our New Chapel which has been less marred in 3 1/2 years then some of our old uncouth rec. rooms have been in one session. 
W. Dr. N.'s notions are all behind the ages; he has done much for Un. Coll. but all he did in the way of instruction 30 years ago when I was here was all for show. The instruction was of the most superficial kind --all outside, and this has ever been his character. 
I. We do better now; we have improved vastly within 15 yrs. 
W. I know you have --you have got a good Faculty now and are doing well. I am reminded of two anecdotes which an old lady in Conn. told me of Dr. N. when a young man. She with a gentleman met him on a certain occasion when it was observed that he had a bunch of "clot burrs" upon his stocking. The gentleman stooped down and kind[ly] picked them off. When lo! a hole appeared beneath which it became apparent the burrs had been placed there to conceal. On another occasion (it is said) his Bro. Samuel sent him and another lad to the cornfield to hoe; Eliphalet returned in an almost incredible time, having finished his task; it appeared afterwards that he had only hoed the outside rows, leaving th~ interior untoutched. These are characteristic of the Dr., whether true or not.; everything is done for outside show. Arriving before Dr. H's door, he came out, and I left. 
3 o'clock P. M. Vph. called me in to know what Wood had said and how he stood affected. "Well," I said, which seemed to please H and he spoke of the probable hand which ----"----has had in the warfare against him by Prof J[ackson] and others. 
H. The most suspicious circumstance that I see is the perfect silence which ----"----keeps during this turmoil and his neglect to use his influence to stop it. Now if he had desired it, he could have crushed the opposition 6 mos. ago; that he has not looks bad. That he keeps dark and secret is his nature; but that he uses none of his influence over J[ackson] and others seems to imply his encouragement. Should he be well enough at Comm't and should ----'----signify in the remotest manner to his partizan friends in the Bd. that I am not the man for the place, then they would at once fall foul and endeavor to push things to the extremity against me: but if before his sickness he did get his plans ready to act (if he had any) and if he continues as he now is --unable to direct or guide the opposition --it may be overcome and dispersed by firmness and pluck of my friends. Whatever be the result I await calmly the result. 
I. I do not like ----"----'s silence or do-nothing policy, I must confess, yet hesitate how much to believe he is interested against you. The head and front of the opposition is J[ackson], and altho disliking your scientific statements [Prof.Gillespie, Prof. Foster, Dr. Nott?] does not run about and try to influence others; he is quiet at home. 

3 o'clock, Botany class. 4 o'clock. Mathew Meigs of Class of1836 called upon me this P. M He is as big as a bull, teaches a school now in Pottstown Pa. and has grown fat upon it. He speaks often and well of himself, is contented with his success in life, has 5 boys and a wife. 
5 to 6 o'clock. Walked about town with wife. 6 o'clock. Tea 6 1/ 4 to 8 o'clock P. M. out botanizing with class along the brook above Vale Cemetery. The prettiest thing found was Linnea borealis, now just in flower. I have a good class in Bot., who study for the love of it. 
8. Called upon Mrs. N. with wife. The poor woman is nearly worn out with tending upon the Dr., who is much of the time in great pain especially of the head: nervous, uneasy, and fretful. She is doubtful as to the effects of his daily rides and thinks they may be too exciting. He often.fears he shall be crazy, requires great labor in.lifting and shifting him, and visibly fails. She says no visitors have been allowed to see him for 3 or 4 days, no one but the family. "Hal" Nott (Joel's son) came in while we were there to inquire after his grandfather. But they say neither Joel nor "Ben" have been to see him since he has been sick. What can be the reason, no one can imagine. It creates talk and severe animadversion against them. 
Friday June 17, 1859. Cloudy, wind southeast and rain in abundance commencing at 5 P. M. 
9 o'clock. AM. Prof. G[illespie] commenced conversation on the usual topic, the choice of a Pres., by asking what Wood said yesterday. We talked of the motives that might influence the choice, and among others of the denominational difference which might and probably would secretly operate upon the minds of the Trustees. We rather believed that the old school would not desire to see a new school man preside over U. C. and, as they are the strongest of any one sect, there is danger that they may act out their feelings [even] if they do not express [them.] Already Vph. is charged, in a sly way, by innuendos, with heterodoxy and pantheism, by the intensely orthodox and by others who desire to influence the minds of others. (Witness Mr. Delavan's postscript to me.) For those who might not be moved by these arguments, his scientific errors are magnified. The reputation of Coll. and its Professors forsooth is injured by them and we are the butt of sarcasm and sneers of our compeers in other colleges. 
10 o'clock A. M. The mischeif of boys shows itself sometimes. Last night a pane of glass was broken in a Chapel window which was opened and entered --the door opened and the reading desk, sopha &c. carried away into the grove back of College. Some loose hay was scattered about the seats and the job was done. This morning the servants put all things to rights before Chapel, restoring the missing furniture and sweeping out the grass. To town, to Bk., to Jackson & Thompson's --gone, and home. Dr. Nott rode out this morning in Calo's hack. H. Rosa, coal dealer, made the following offer for coal. The best screened Lehigh, delivered on the Hill for $5.25 pr. ton or cheaper if the market price was below that. Kingston Cement for 9/.delivered at "Graduate's Hall. " Prof. F[oster], in pursuit of a PBK orator, gave his experience as follows: Application 1st, Rufus Choate --sick, to leave for Europe; 2nd, R. Winthrop -going to Europe. 3rd. 

R.H. Dana. sick; 4th Gov. Boutwell of Mass. probably will accept, as 
informed by H. H. Rice of Boston. Col. Stephen Yates in his usual gossiping style informs us, at the 
P.O. door, of a remedy for chilblains and corns --fresh strawberrys applied to the feet. He says every year in the season of them, he fills a pair of india rubber shoes with this fruit, then thrusts [his] feet into them and so sits a couple of hours. This application, made two or three times, enables him to remove his corns with ease, and prevents chilblains the following winter. 
Not many minutes after, encountered Harry Wendell with his usual budget of complaints about Reagles encroaching upon his land at the quarry by blasting away the rock so near his line as to prevent the keeping up a fence, also that he puts up so high a fence at the "Remus Lane" as to oblige the cowboys to climb his fence and destroy his crops. 
12.M. Dr. L[ewis], Prof. G[illespie] and Prof. C[handler] met in the Treas. Off. and the old topic of conversation is begun: the successor [to] Dr. N. The new candidate, Bp. Potter, was turned about in various lights and his qualifications discussed, as a rival of Dr.H. G[illespie] said his cheif objection was his want of health and probable shortness of life. L[ewis] had others and more weighty: we have a man now well qualified for the office; "let well enough alone"; we musnt show bad faith towards him and break contracts and promises. C[handler thought Bp. P. would reconcile all differences and suit all the different-view Trustees: he was confessedly the choice of Dr. N., his son-in-law and his avowed successor until his choice as Bp. Someone thought that he could not become Pres. ofU. C. because once a Bp. ,always a Bp. C[handler] said he could resign the duties of the office and retain the name, while at the same time he performed those of a Pres. of Coll. I said that both were good men, but that if both were free from U. C. and stood alike before the Trustess should choose Bp. P. for I knew him to be a eminently fit man for the office; but at the same time I did not think he would entertain the idea a moment, did not think his health sufficient for the place, nor that he is a long-lived man. Well or sick, however, if he would accept the office, I thought Dr. Nott's friends would vote him in for no other reason [than] to get rid of Vph. Having got rid of the latter, if the former lived but a month, an improtant object would be effected. 

G. said he would be austere and stern as President. 
I. Yes, his manner was formerly forbidding; no man in College was more unpopular for many years among students, who attributed all stringent rules to "old Pug." His undoubted talents and rising reputation, however, together with softened manners made him at the last more of a favorite. As to theological differences, Episcopacy would be as distasteful to some of the Trustees as "New School Presbyterianism." Formerly Bp. P. was looked upon as Low Ch. but since his elevation to the Epis. office his tone had risen. 
Dr. L[ewis] then called attention to the first five vols. of the American Cyclopedia, published by the Appleton's, and criticised the manner in which many articles were written; as for example the biographies of living men by their friends. "What reliance can be placed upon their impartiality when so written? What shocking bad taste also to publish page after page upon Rufus Choate when much better men, whose memories will last when his is forgotten, are passed by with a few lines. I see also an article on the Sweden.Borgian doctrine of "Correspondence" by Prof Bush. What a nonsensical idea is this? Swedenborg was nothing but a dreamer: Words, words, and nothing but words! big sounding words: Even when professing to be receiving revelations from Heaven, his theological opinions crop out and appear evident; he hated Calvin and Luther and on all occasions does not fail to give them a thrust. In his work he says he found Calvin a "Cold Hell in the other world." Swedenborg did not believe in the attonement of the Saviour. C[handler]. I think you are mistaken, for I have had it from one of his followers that they relied upon Christs death for salvation. L[ewis] . No they dont, I have often talked with Bush upon this subject and could never make [out] that he believed what we call the atonement. After L[ewis] and G[illespie] left C[handler] myself had a long conversation upon College matters. 
C. We want a complete overturn in College matters: new course of studies; new rooms or old ones renovated; new and stricter discipline; new laws; faculty meetings and more power and liberty in the faculty; stricter examinations; more responsibility thrown upon the Professors. In a word, old things should be done away, all things should become new. 

I. True, we need radical changes and much of our success in a new course depends upon who shall be our President. 
C. I should have confidence in Hickok if he could have his hands free, but I fear that if appointed Pres. he would be hampered by his opponents in the Board. 
I. True, and I fear some of the Faculty would not second his plans and administration. 
C. I hope there would be no one who would oppose him: that would be disastrous indeed. 
3 o'clock. Dr. Nott was brought out and placed in his three.wheel-chair on the walk along the South colonnade, where he was rolled backward and forwards for some minutes. It was a sad sight! Poor old man! his dim eyes are almost lustreless and sightless, sunken and rayless! His strength is no more than an infants; one hand alone can be moved; his voice is feeble and indistinct, his mind wandering: his thoughts incoherent . Still they run upon College matters. He asked me to bring a plan of the Graduates Hall. When placed before him he said, "This is the greatest foundation that has been built since the Colisseum: the greatest that will be seen again in a hundred years; there must be written a puff about it: tell Gillespie he must write something --I cant --and have it printed and sent to all the graduates within a hundred miles of here; so that we may have a great gathering at Commencement to see the Graduates Hall." 
"Hal Nott" (Joel's son), now here with his grandfather, remarked that "Lif' said of his father, Bp. Potter, that he was very thin. Mrs. N. in answer remarked that he was a great deal better, in fact well. 
4 o'clock. Rain commences on the Western Helderbergs and at 5 it rains hard and so continues till 12 o'clock when I retire to bed. 
Saturday June 18, 1859. Cool day. 9 o'clock, met E. Nott Jr. M.D. (son of Howard Nott) now staying at his grandfather's (Dr. N.'s). He informs me that his grandfathef is no better --passed a restless night and is nervous and fidgety this morning. His mind is quite shattered and wandering, his thoughts broken and incoherent. 
10. Prof. G[illesp[ie] spoke of the future as so uncertain, and the probability of a change in our faculty by the death of Dr. N. as so certain, therefore suggested the propriety of printing but a limited number of Catalogues but to keep the type standing till next session and print another then. The suggestion appeared so reasonable that [I?] mentioned the matter to S.S. Riggs the printer. 
10 1/2. The Catholic Priest called to inquire about Dr. Nott. As his former call gave rise to the ridiculous stories of the Drs. 

conversion to Catholicism, this will probably confirm it and make the 
matter doubly certain in the minds of the city gossips. 
2 o'clock. To town. Called upon Jackson and Thomson and left Fagans & Cavanagh's mortgages for foreclosure (N. Trust Fund securities). To Reflector office and paid College subscription from Jan. 1. 59 to May 1. '60 
3 o'clock. Called on _Bp. Potter (Alonzo) who arrived at 12. Altho' much thinner than when I last him, he looked better than I had reason to expect. On congratulating him upon his appearance, he answered that he was but a wreck; his wife, he said, was not at all benefitted by his European residence and came home with the prospect of an early death, altho by good nursing he hoped to put off the sad event. Spoke of Dr. Nott's sickness with no hope of any alleviation, "Its only a question of time," said he, "and what is much to be feared, his mind may fail, in which case it can hardly be wished that he should long survive. Afterwards G[illespie] told me that he spoke to Bp. P. about our difficulties and hoped he would use his influence to pacify the troubles. The Bp. answered that he had heard of our snarl but that he was himself too much disabled to do much, not well enough in fact to resume his diocesan duties. 
5 Walk with wife in College woods and home at 6 o'clock to tea. 
7 Call from Dr. Baldwin (Bpt. Minister) of Troy; he is to preach tomorrow for Mr. Day, in exchange. A fat, smooth-spoken man, of not much depth, considerable manner and self possession. Showy, too much acting; not enough quiet, unaffected good sense and manners. 
Sunday June 19, 1859. Cool in morning, comfortable. Home with wife. At 12 called to see how Dr. N. was, and found him more quiet than he has been for two days past. Mrs. N., thinking his rides tended to irritate more than they soothed his mind, has kept him in for two days and with good effect. Dr. Swits says that the excitement and nervousness of Thursday and Friday would soon have worn him out.-. All who know and have seen him speak of his failing strength and mental powers. 
Monday June 20, 1859. Rain thro' the night and day. 9 o'clock in Library. Prof. G[illespie] as usual called, spoke of Bp. Potter as weak and his wife sick of consumption. He says J[ackson] saw him (P[otter]) on Saturday and in answer to remarks about Vph. and the presidency snarl, said he had anticipated trouble two years [ago?] Will be here off and on till Commencement or till Dr. N's death. G[illespie] Says E. C.D[elavan] is angry with C[handler] because the latter will not endorse his pamphlet on adulterations of liquors and because he does not find poison in a bottle of beer sent him!! This is doubtless a strong statement of the real facts, but some time since I heard C[handler] say he was prepared to subscribe to all the sweeping assertions of a certain Dr. Cox of Cincinnati in relation to liquor adulterations. 

10. Dr. N. is reported about the same as yesterday. Vph. dropped into Treasury Office and conversed some time with me on the subject of the succession. His own position is unpleasant -and may necessitate his resignation even if the Trustees should by a small majority elect him: he could not think of staying with a party working against him and determined to make his stay unpleasant. If, on the other hand, The Trustees voted him out and broke contract, then he should demand reasons and it would not be pleasant, not profitable for College, to have it go abroad that Princeton rules Un. College and that the New School Body are to be proscribed. 
I. Bp. Potter is strongly spoken of now in town as our next Pres. altho' I doubt that he has given or will give any encouragement for this rumor. I do not think his health is good enough for such duties, particularly in our present state when everything is to be remodelled and renovated. Vph. If he desires to do so, he can have more influence than any other man in the Board in quieting our difficulties; now is out of the question. 
I. True, yet it is uncertain how he will act. 
11. Dr. Vedder tells me that the accounts of the City Tr[easurer] become more and more involved as the examination goes on. 11 1/2 To town, saw S. S. Riggs in relation to printing Annual Catalogue, ordered 600 copies, the types to be kept standing till next session when another corrected edition will be issued. 12. M. Called on Dr. 
B. to consult him about a certain letter of inquiry in relation to Dr. Nott's new house, called President's House. I spoke of our presidential difficulties and hoped Bp. Potter would use his influence to quiet matters before he left town. Dr. B. He leaves this afternoon amd I am going up to see him. 
2. P.M. Bp. P. left. 3 to 4 Botany recitation. 4. P.M. Prof. G. in office; as usual spoke on the old topic of [Dr. N] 's successor --asked if I had heard any thing about Bp. P. 
I. He left town this afternoon at 2 oclock. As to the Presidential question, you perhaps remember what I said 2 1/2 years ago -that Dr. H[ickok] would never be president. I have not altered my opinion since; on the contrary, it is strengthened. You may be sure that either he will resign or will be rejected. He will resign if he sees a powerfw minority dead-set against him because he could not act pleasantly and harmoniously with them. This being the case, I argue that áwe are to look around for another man, and to shape our affairs so that H's rejection shall do us the least injury. The injury to be apprehended is a theological war against the College; the New School Pres[byterians] and their sympathisers will charge his rejection to denominational spite and Princeton High-Church Presbyterianism and we shall lose their patronage and good will. Now if H. must go, and I now see no remedy, the Trustees should if possible substitute a New School man in his place to disarm this class of opponents and stop theological clamor: the next best thing would be an Episcopalian, Dutch (Reformed) Methodist or Baptist; but not an Old Sch. Presbyterian. So sure as the latter d enom[inatio]n is allowed now to take the lead and give us another Pres., there will be war among the different sects upon U. C. as being given over to Presbyterianism. 

G. Your opinion is wise and just: but do you think H[ickok] will resign? I thought not, I am in doubt what would be best. There is danger in calling a new man: and there is wisdom in letting well enough alone. J[ackson] is so rabid against H. that he drives me over to the other side. 
I. He would never be reconciled to H. in any case; all the rest of the Fae. would acquiesce in the appointment. There is one man, if he could be got, who would make an excellent Pres. --Mark Hopkins of Wm. College. 
G. He is too pious for us. he is Congregationalist and wouldnt suit our Pres., Dutch and Epis[copalians]. 
I. I dont know about that; if here he would make an old school Prof. and suit all classes. No matter who is elected, I mean to work for College: to do my duty as well as I know how and let the event rest in the future. 
8 o'clock. Dr. Thos. C. Reed of Geneva called a few minutes; he came down to see Bp. Potter and was much disappointed not to find him here. R[eed] seems to have recovered entirely from his unfortunate habit; his school flourishes, I am told, and is profitable to him. 
Tuesday June 21, 1859. Rain during the night and this morning till noon, dull and lowery. 9 o'clock to 10. In College Library. 
10. Rev. R. Howard Wallace of Little Britain, Orange Co., called and desired the aid of my name for an honarary D. D. for his father, a country clergyman of respectable abilities with whom he is associated as pastor. He wants to know also what the Graduates Committees are doing in New York; why R .M. P. does not write to him on the subject of soliciting money in Orange, about which he (W.) 

has written to him several times without so much as eliciting an answer: thought it strange that so little is done to forward the work, to raise money and push on the building. 10 1/2 oclock. Vph. called at Treas. office: and stated that ---"---'s friends would probably make the charge against him of want of confidence in ---"---'s honesty. which he never made, but is inferred from a conversation held two years since with ----"----upon the following topics: 1st, Transfer of Lowber mortgage of $40,000 to the Van Alst farm as a second mortgage; 2nd, on the subject of ----"----'s advances of private fortune and use of name for sustaining the credit of U. C. e.g. $40,000 borrowed of Wm. James for Y[ates] & McI[nyre]. 3d, about the money claimed of the N[ott] T[rust] F[und] as having been advanced after the T[rust] deed for the purchase of Van Alst Farm. 4th,á money asked to pay for law suit with Thayer & Flagg. 5th, whether or not ----"--~-was not as much benefitted by U. C. as U. C. was benefitted by him in all his financial transactions. 
These topics were discussed, Vph. says, by him and by----"---.the former asking for explanations and the latter giving the best he had to give but whether satisfactory to him, Vph did not say, hence ----"----inferred that he was not satisfied with his explanations and thought him dishonest; and reported to his friends that Vph. did not believe him. This probably is the secret of all the ill-feeling felt now against Vph. and for which he is to be called to account and probably rejected or made to resign. Vph. If these things come up, what shall I do? 
I. Answer them truly --fully, according to facts: what else can you do? Am I to be lugged in too? How many victims are to be sacrificed upon ----"----'s tomb? Vph. I dont know. 
I. All I have to say, the finances of U.C. had better be left alone, as well as the financial career of----"----. Neither will stand the light 1 1/2 to 2 P.M. Great thunder shower with strong wind. 
3. P.M. Botany class. Plants analysed -Carum Carui, Rumex Crispus, Stellaria Media, Penstemon pubescens, Thalictrum Comuti. 4 to S P.M. With Prof. Gillespie levelling up with level, the Foundation wall of Graduates Hall, which now is about 6 feet high. 4 to 5 P.M. Met Revs. Mr. Duryea (of Schen.) and Fisher (of Johnstown), graduates of U.C. The former is now acting as agent for the Association of Alumni. He says the Grad. Hall should go right up this summer and be enclosed, so as to be finished next season by Commencement. He asked how much it would cost: I guessed $10,000 or less --say $3,000 for brick work and surely less than $7,000 for roof. Duryea. The New York Committee should appoint a subcommittee up 

here to manage matters on the ground; they are too much buried in their own matters to come up more than once a year, or to direct the miniutae to be attended to here. 
I. In April I asked Mr. Blatchford to do so, but he thought it unnecessary. 
D. I am visiting the river (Hudson) counties and shall soon move down from Poughkeepsie; when I get near N. York I shall drop down and see the Committee. 
5 to 6. With G[illespie] to "Terrace Road," south of Un. Street to look at the ground for a house lot, which he has talked of purchasing these 5 years. 6. Tea. 7. With wife to walk along Central R. Road over the Mohawk towards the "Sand Bank." 
Wednesday June 22, 1859. Cool comfortable day; we have had but two or three hot days this season. 8 1/2 o'clock A. M. Miss Proctor, teacher in Union School, called to ask the names of certain plants which she is analysing with her class. 9 o'clock. Vph. called again this morning to talk about the charges which he suspects ----11----'s friends mean to make against him, such as: distrust of [Dr. N] ----"--.-'s good intentions; suspicion of his honesty; a dislike of his financial transactions &c. Vph. thinks it proper therefore for him to fortify himself by facts particularly as to the statement that he ( (Dr. N.]) furnished money from time to time from his own private means to keep up U. C. and help forward her interests, also by copies of papers spoken of yesterday. 
I. As to [Dr. N] 's furnishing money for U. C., the facts are the other way most of the time from 1832 down to 1852. He was always borrowing of U. C. and often paying back in "cats and dogs" which never yeilded anything to Coll. in return. As to his borrowing $100,000 of Wm. James, the facts are these: Wm James loaned his notes to that amt. to Y[ates] & McI[ntyre] for which they assigned him securities as collateral. The Pres. and Treas of U. C. gave a bond to Wm. J[ames] and lastly as [Dr. N.?] says, the Pres. and Treas. gave their personal notes or bonds. Now how many chances did----"---.run to get shot while hedged in by so many ramparts of securities? Vph. Well, do you look over matters and get me what facts you can in relation to this money-lending statement. 
11. 
o'clock A. M. Prof. [Gillespie? Chandler?]] dropped into Treas. office with his budget of complaints about the war, in College and out, against Vph. He feels strongly the injustice done to Vph. by J[ackson]. who is the head and front of the opposition and who is strongly interested against him, using all the interest possible against him with the Trustees. 

12. 
Going to town, met Prof. N[ewman]; he also had his budget of complaints to make in the same way and to the same effect, protesting that the Fae. could not and should not stand this thimble.rigging process any longer but speak out and express their determination to be properly represented before the Trustees. 12 1/2 P.M. To bank to make deposite, &c. 2 to 3. P.M. Dr. L[ewis] called at Tr. Off. and if possible was more moved than either of the others in relation to the assault upon Vph. 



L. He came here after three years solicitation of ----"----and Bp. P[otter] and others; he wrote his books (except the last) with the approbation and urgency of [Dr. N. ?] : he is as orthodox today as he was when he came here; now forsooth they charge him with being unsound and Dr. B[ackus] says that I first suggested his heterodoxy to him in a chapter in his moral philosophy; in which he is entirely mistaken. I dont understand this opposition; why should Jackson persist in this way, using all the influence possible to bring over Trustees to distrust Vph. He may have offended ----"----but that is a private and personal thing. 
I. The College, it seems, is to be thrown. into a turmoil and used to thresh Vph. because he has offended Mrs. and ----"----; faith is to be broken and a theological war commenced to gratify a private pique. Just so sure as Vph. leaves, the New Sch[ool]Pres-[byterians] will cry persecution and if an Old Sch[ool] Pres. is put in his place, the charge of odium theologicum will be thrown against the Coll. Should Vph. be forced to resign, but one thing will save us from a war of sects --to put a New Sch. Pres. in his place, or the next best thing will be some man of another denominationp; if Episcopalian he must be low church], of the flattest kind. L[ewis] I am not going to hold my tongue any longer. J[ackson] says keep quiet, but while I keep quiet he is buttonholing Bp. P. and others and doing all in his power to help on the war. I feel indignant at the treatment which Vph. has received: he has done nothing to merit it and keeps quiet, and says nothing. 
4. Dr Nott rides out around the grounds, comes by the "Grad. Hall" foundation, calls me to the carriage and says, as when I last saw him --"the greatest foundation in the country -write a puff about it, have it printed and send it to all graduates in the state so that they may come up at Commencement and become interested in the building." He passed on and called me to him again, repeating much the same thing. Poor old man! he looks feeble: voice weak, eye filmy, strength gone. 5. To walk with wife through College woods 6. Tea and 6 1/4 to 8 1/2 botanising with class two miles southeast. 

Thursday June 23, 1859. Fine, cool, comfortable day. 8 1/2 o'clock. Passing by Dr. L's door, Prof. P[eissner] remarked that he supposed Vph. could not stay. C[handler] also says so and he gets much of his opinions from what he hears J[ackson] say. 
9. A.M. Passing thence by Vph's study, he beckoned me in and asked me to copy certain documents and resolutions passed by the Board, such as would confirm any positions he had taken or any assertions he had made in regard to financial facts. I advised him not to say anything about any private conversation he had with----"----if he could possibly avoid it; if charged in plain terms with having said what he did not say, to deny but not explain; in a word to say nothing unless compelled to do so. I. How would it do to remain even if the Trustees appoint another over your head? It is very doubtful if any man would come under such circumstances. Dr. L[ewis], who_ feels very much on this matter, advises such a course. Vph. Should'nt want to take any dog-in-the-manger position. The majority could of course pass annoying resolutions and make my stay under such circumstances exceedingly annoying: I am a man of peace, and too old to fight now. 
12. M. To Bank, and home to dinner. 3 to 4 Botany class, analysed some of the plants we gathered last evening: Sephrosia virginiana, Geum virginianum, Anemone Pennsylvanica, Med-eola, Virginica, Pyrola elliptica, &c. Silene noctiflora. 
4. P. M. Dr. Nott went out to ride but was made worse by it, so restless and nervous that his grandau[ghter] Maria N. P[otter] said to Prof. G. that he had to be lifted from his lounge to his chair and back ten times in five minutes. 
5 to 6. Prof. G[illespie] at Tr. Office and talked of the usual topic now rife upon "the Hill." 
L.
What did Bp. P[otter] say to J[ackson] and F[oster]? and Bp. P. when he was here, did he express any opinion at all on the merits of the question? Prof. Gillespie. Nothing whatever; he only said he expected this snarl two years ago: he was non-committal. 

I. 
What does J[ackson] say was the topic of conversation between ---." ----and the Vph. when the latter accused the former of dishonesty? 

G. 
I dont remember what was the subject, but J[ackson] has it all. 

I. 
----"----once told me that Vph. thought him a dishonest man; I told Vph. of it and he denied any such thing: that he had never by any word intimated such an opinion. 

G. 
I dont suppose he said so in so many words but he attacked in his usual rough way and very much hurt his feelings. 

J. 
Doubtless Vph. was blunt and not tender enough of his feelings; 



but admit all that and Vph. is charged with saying so and so, and denies it: we then have one man's word against that of the other; who shall we believe? 
G. The Tr[ustees] will believe----"----. 
I. That is not the question; The Tr[ustees] who have made up their minds will of course disbelieve Vph. no matter what he says; but whom shall unbiased men believe? Is not Vph's word as good at the least as ----"----'s ? 
G. No. (but could give no reason for this answer). 
I. I know ----"----'s character, the financial side of it as well as any other man, and I know that he is very forgetful; I certainly would believe Vph. as soon as ----"----. But why should ----"----'s friends use the Coll. to thresh Vph. merely for a private misunderstanding? This is not a proper way of settling such a quarrel; to convulse Coll. to gratify vindictive feelings. Laying aside all private feelings and grievances, I think Vph. is our man on the old maxim, "Let well enough along." 
G. I think on that ground he is our best man. But J[ackson] dont think so; he thinks Vph. has not a single q ualificiation for Pres. 
I. You see he is entirely carried away by his prejudices and wont see the truth! 
G. Speaking of Tappan of Mich. Univ., he is a New Sch[ool] man: so that he could'nt be objectionable on the score of theology with that party; he is even more New Sch. than Vph. 
I. Perhaps so. I have no knowledge of his standing ecclesiastically. &c&c. 
G[illespie] is strongly prejudiced against Vph. on several accounts, some expressed and one at least kept private. Expressed reasons are his rough, rude, blunt manners, want of delicacy, and scientific errors in his last book; the private reason is that some years since about the time Vph came here; he (G.) wrote to Bp. P[otter] a letter slandering Vph. or at least strongly finding fault with him for some fancied errors in his course. It turned out that he was wrong in his charges, and the chagrin th us created has ever since 
[w] rankled in his bosom. 
6. o'clock P. M. Tea. 7 to walk half an hour with wife on College Campus. 7 1/2 to 9. A.M. At a special meeting of Com.missioners of Education at Un. Sch. Building. Passed bills for teachers, wages, and discussed briefly the plans for a new building for accommadation of scholars. 
Friday June 24, 1859. Rain at intervals; after 11 A. M. , cool. 8 1/2 In conversation with Prof. C[handler] he mentioned an analysis 

he is now making of fermented strawberries to determine whether there is any product but alcohol and carb. acid. This is for Mr. Delavan, who is a zealot in Temperance and wishes to establish the fact that there is an intermediate state in the process of the fermentation of grape juice before alcohol is formed. 
Mr. D. also insists that there is [no?] pure beer --that it is all adulterated with strychnine and other drugs and is poisonous, therefore. Dr. and Mrs. N. have the like opinions and, C[handler] says, are not too well pleased with him because he doubted the fact, and another statement of theirs, that lager beer tended to give those who drank it a taste for distilled liquors. On the contrary C. says he maintained that this drink prevents a taste for strong spirits. He has not a high opinion of Cox's ability as a chemist --Cox of Cincinnati, liquor inspector --because he makes statements of analysis which no man, however expert a chemist, could make. 9. Dr. N. desired to see me. On calling, found the poor old man sitting in his three-wheeled chair, bolstered up, feeble and low-voiced. He reached out his hand, asked how Mrs. Pearson is, then passed on to speak of a little trick which the students played last night --placing some damp hay around the pump and trying to fire it. He said he was afraid the boys were getting rude and unruly. I said no, that they had behaved very well thus far this session and I thought they would do so still. After trying to sooth his mind, left as soon as possible because too much talking excites and makes him nervous. 
10. 
A.M. Vph. asked me to call and see him,which I did at this hour, when he gave an account of his adventures with some students whom he saw passing with fence pales upon their shoulders, taken from the College fence above my house! Also, he spoke of the bitter war against him, and of some secret knowledge which he has to the effect that it has been a long time settled by ----"----'s friends that he (Vph.) should go: he couldnt now tell what it was, must see Judge P[aige] first and consult with him, but thought that in two or three days one might speak with certainty and openly that the thing is thus and so. 

11. 
Rain at intervals till towards 4 o'clock. 12. Placed Centres for cellar windows to "Graduates' Hall. 3 to 4 Botany class: analysed Linaria, commonly called "Butter and Eggs," and recited chapter on Pistil. 4 to 6. Prof. C[handler] in office: 1st, spoke of the unsatisfactory state of Anal. Laboratory accounts, and income which is too small for its expenditures. Also of [the] Presidential war, in which he is too young an officer to make it safe or becoming for him to take an active part; nevertheless his feelings are enlisted for Vph. and he would be glad to see him succeed. We also talked of the 



he is now making of fermented strawberries to determine whether there is any product but alcohol and carb. acid. This is for Mr. Delavan, who is a zealot in Temperance and wishes to establish the fact that there is an intermediate state in the process of the fermentation of grape juice before alcohol is formed. 
Mr. D. also insists that there is [no?] pure beer --that it is all adulterated with strychnine and other drugs and is poisonous, therefore. Dr. and Mrs. N. have the like opinions and, C[handler] says, are not too well pleased with him because he doubted the fact, and another statement of theirs, that lager beer tended to give those who drank it a taste for distilled liquors. On the contrary C. says he maintained that this drink prevents a taste for strong spirits. He has not a high opinion of Cox's ability as a chemist --Cox of Cincinnati, liquor inspector --because he makes statements of analysis which no man, however expert a chemist, could make. 9. Dr. N. desired to see me. On calling, found the poor old man sitting in his three-wheeled chair, bolstered up, feeble and low-voiced. He reached out his hand, asked how Mrs. Pearson is, then passed on to speak of a little trick which the students played last night --placing some damp hay around the pump and trying to fire it. He said he was afraid the boys were getting rude and unruly. I said no, that they had behaved very well thus far this session and I thought they would do so still. After trying to sooth his mind, left as soon as possible because too much talking excites and makes him nervous. 
10. 
A.M. Vph. asked me to call and see him,which I did at this hour, when he gave an account of his adventures with some students whom he saw passing with fence pales upon their shoulders, taken from the College fence above my house! Also, he spoke of the bitter war against him, and of some secret knowledge which he has to the effect that it has been a long time settled by ----11----'s friends that he (Vph.) should go: he couldnt now tell what it was, must see Judge P[aige] first and consult with him, but thought that in two or three days one might speak with certainty and openly that the thing is thus and so. 

11. 
Rain at intervals till towards 4 o'clock. 12. Placed Centres for cellar windows to "Graduates' Hall. 3 to 4 Botany class: analysed Linaria, commonly called "Butter and Eggs," and recited chapter on Pistil. 4 to 6. Prof. C[handler] in office: 1st, spoke of the unsatisfactory state of Anal. Laboratory accounts, and income which is too small for its expenditures. Also of [the] Presidential war, in which he is too young an officer to make it safe or becoming for him to take an active part; nevertheless his feelings are enlisted for Vph. and he would be glad to see him succeed. We also talked of the 


(lbY 
unsatisfactory state of our finances, especially of the N[ott] T[rust] 
Furid with the Lowber lawsuit and the almost dead certainty of Coll. 
realizing almost nothing from the Lowber mortgages now accounting 
[amounting?] to $85,000. 
G[illespie] came in and commenced the usual topic. I said, "Vph. wont be Pres. I told you so 2 1/2 years ago and my opinion has been confirmed more and more and especially within the last few months. 
G. I dont think so --he will be elected. 
I. If so, then the opposition will be so fierce that he will resign for the sake of peace. He wont fight as some men would, who would blow the Coll. sky high, rather than be unjustly crowded off in this manner. 
G. I thought he would be stubborn and hang on if he could in spite of opposition. 
I. Of course he will give his reasons for his leaving as any man would, to set himself aright with friends and the public, but I do not believe there is any fight in him. 
G. L[ewis] is furious; he says he is'nt going to hold in any longer, J[ackson] is running about electioneering against Vph. with Trustees and others, and telling him to keep still. [I]. He has as good right to show his opinions as J[ackson] and dont know why he should keep quiet. I dont want to flatter you (G) but you are the only one of the opposition in the faculty who is known to the public, who knows anything of J[ackson] or F[oster]." (At this compliment G. was toutched in the most vulnerable part; two such strokes would cause him to explode with excess of vanity.) 
I. L[ ewis] tells the truth doubtless, ( for mischeif.) 
G.
Jackson says he has nothing personally against Vph., likes him well enough, but he has no qualifications for the Pres: All the objections I have are the scientific blunders of his book which affect me as a scientific man. I dont care a fig for his metaphysics or his theology. L[ewis] says, "Hang your science, it is'nt of any consequence whatever." 

I. 
L[ewis] shows the same contempt for my weeds, as he calls my plants, and wishes I would clear them out of his recitation and not litter up his table with them. I tell him if he will not lumber up the blackboard with his Hebrew and Persian pothooks, I will keep my weeds out of his way. ---If Vph. had'nt disobliged by his blunt way of presenting his questions, all would have been well; but still I do not see why U. C. should be used as a flagel(lum] to beat Vph's brains out. 

G. 
That conversation which you think was private had a witness. 



Vph. talked so loud in ----"----'s study that somebody in the parlor listening at the keyhole heard the whole conversation. 
I. Indeed! then the case will be put in a bad shape for Vph. I tell you he is doomed: you may as well fight against a woman as with an old man. The Tr[ustees] sympathise; they will do anything he says , give him anything he wants, and if Vph. were the greatest man that ever lived and the contract the strongest ever made still they would break thro' all bonds and influences, to sacrifice the person who should offend their idol. 
G. I am afraid there will be a rebellion among the students; Vph. is popular with them, and many of them are very angry with J[ackson] on account of his war on Vph's book: they think his opposition is a personal matter. Brooks, whom you know is a fair minded man and a friend of J[ackson], said he was sorry that he (J.) took such a part against Vph. --that it.hurt him among the students. 
I. Wait a few days till this gets out and you will see a row; this matter cannot be kept much longer from them. Many last winter asserted that they would go off if Vph. did. 
G. G[ilbert], Registrar, tells me that Dodge P.M.[?] asked him yesterday if Vph. was not popular with the Fae. and Tr[ustees], For says he. "I met Mr. D. (E. C. D[elavan].) yesterday and said 'So Dr. N. is very sick, and not likely to get well, I hear, but you have a good man on the Hill to take his place.' When I said this," said Dodge, "he looked at me in such a manner as plainly showed he meant to say No! with an emphasis." 
I. And that "No." tells the truth. Vph. wont be Pres. No man ever set up his opinions independently of----"----in U.C. that did'nt get put out, e.g. Old Dr. Yates, Young Dr. Yates, Dr. Mc Auley &c. 
G. Why, I thought it was a settled thing that Vph. would be Pres. 
I. His destiny was determined in July 1856 when he made that speech to the Tr[ustees] and since then it has been confirmed by subsequent differences with ----"----. I am sorry it [is] so. We may lose, disastrously, by a change; we know Vph., his faults and excellencies. The former we know we can put up with, but if we get a wholly untried man, who knows if we can get along with him [at] all, if he will not get Coll. into a confusion before a year is out. We know Vph. is popular with students --a very great recommendation to any man as Pres. of U.C. 
6. Bro.in-law and Sister Magoun called in upon us to night. 
Saturday June 25, 1859. Un. College Fine cool day: Thus far we have had scarcely 5 warm days this season 
This has been one of the best days Dr. N. has had for more than a week. Wishing to get his signatures to the Graduate's Diplomas, I sent him 20 to begin with to be signed when he felt like it. Finishing these, he continued to send for more until he had 100. 

The architect of Graduates' Hall is Edw. T. Potter, son of Bp. Potter (Alonzo) and son-in-law of R. M. Blatchford of N. Y. He is a young man, one would say too inexperienced to manage the difficulties of so odd a building as the committee have decided to erect. It is sixteen-sided, practically round: to be surmounted with a 50 feet dome and lantern. The walls are supported of course by the outside foundation whilst the dome and floors (cheifly) rest upon 16 piers within; arranged in a SO ft. circle within the walls, which have an 88 ft. diameter. Practically, therefore, there are two foundations --one for walls, the other for roof; whereas in ordinary buildings the walls support floor and roof. This departure from ordinary methods of buildings must increase the cost materially and unnecessarily. The building should without doubt have been rectangular, the only form that can be made useful and economical. Already the inexperience of the young architect has wasted hundreds of dollars upon a foundation broad and heavy enough for a building 150 feet high and now, by a most extravagant plan for piers of heavy dressed limestone, we are about to enter upon another wasteful job: at this rate of expenditure the building ought to cost 30,000 to 40,000 dollars. 
No new develop[e]ments in the Presidential war: the next phase of the conflict will probably be witness[ed] when the students and townsmen gain knowledge of the state of affairs. I cannot conceive of a more reproachful tribute to----"----'s memory and character than this whole affair. That his friends should come to the determination to oust Vph.; break contract and faith; and convulse Coll. merely on account [of] a private difference between him and .... " .... is a most astonishing exhibition of folly and spite. Can it be possible that ----" .with his usual good sense should encourage this? How otherwise would they dare to move so actively and perseveringly in their suicidal course? Of all things ----11----'s character should not now be put in jeopardy by another inquiry into his financial acts; and yet his friends, it is supposed" mean to attack Vph. upon a charge of having called in question some years ago certain transactions of his (Dr. N's) with College. 
Sunday June 26. 1859. Cool comfortable weather, day clear, air pure and bracing. Home all day with wife. At 12 M. Called to inquire about Dr. N. : he [had] just been carried out in his chair to the garden and as usual was much the 

worse for it. Strange to say, whenever he goes out even if no one is seen by him, his brain becomes excited; and for hours he is restless and nervous. 
Monday June 27, 1859. Fine weather, a little warmer than yesterday. 8 1/2 o'clock A. M. Vph. sent for me. As I came to his study, a committee of the Juniors called to ask permission to have a "bolt" on account of Dr. Nott's birthday, which was on the 25th 
(Saturday)!! They had already called for permission from Dr. N. but he sent them to Vph., saying that he was sick and no longer took any part in college affairs. Vph. disliked to take the responsibility of giving a bolt and so told them, and asked them to go back to the class and say so. Having dismissed this deputation, he opened his business with me. Some days since he called upon ----"----and, after talking about College affairs, said to him that at this time he wished to say that, altho' they had had differences and could not think alike irt some matters, he wished to make byegones, and to express his cordial desire to forget all in the past that was unpleasant and entirely dismiss from his own mind all _hard or uncharitable feelings, if he harbored any against him &c. [Dr. N.] slowly reached out his hand and said deliberately that from the bottom of his heart he reciprocated his kind feelings and felt willing to forget and forgive. Vph. left, but two or three days after he received a long communication thro the hand of Mrs. N. (See comm. at the end of this days proceedings). On receiving this, Vph went to her and asked if this was known to ----"----: if he directed this to be sent to him after the conversation he (Vph.) had had with him She reluctantly said yes. Vph then asked her to let him see ----"----so soon as he was in a condition to be seen, since when no call has been made for him. Vph. now says that the whole battery is unmasked. All possible charges are trumped up, real and imaginary, to swell the sum total of his sins against ----"----and a dead set is to be made by means of these to unhorse him (Vph.) and send him adrift. "Now is the time," says he, "to let it be known abroad that I am to leave, that the pressure of public opinion may be brought to bear upon the Tr[ustees] and that the students may know also the fact and why am obliged to go. I saw Judge P[aige] and Co. on Saturday night and they are fully alive to the matter and will have a piece first inserted in the Albany Journal and the **** and Argus from whence it will go to other papers. I am going to N. Y. to deliver an address before N. Y. Univ. tomorrow night, shall be back in 36 hours." 
11. To town to Judge P[aige] and Dr B[ackus]. I did not find them, called upon various persons owing interest to College but got 

none. 3. Saw Prof. P[eissner]: he tells me that Dr. L[ewis] a day or 
two since had a serious conversation with Mrs. [N.] upon the subject 
of Vph's going away and in very strong terms protested against the 
thing, assuring her that it would be the very worst thing that could 
happen just now for ----"----'s memory; that just as he is going out 
of the world, he should leave U. C. distracted with dissentions and 
discord. P[eissner] hoped the conversation did good but feared it 
would not suffice to allay the bitter -feeling against Vph. which all 
believe is much stronger in her mind than in ----"----'s. 3 to 4. 
Botany class. Recitation on the fruit, analyzed Ligustrum Valgare. 5 
to 6. with wife to "West End" of town where saw Judge P[aige], who 
conversed about Vph. and his prospects for the presidency: he 
favored the publishing without delay of the precarious situation 
(Vph's) and the laying open to Coll. the state affairs that the students 
might express their opinions without delay. A petition from them to 
the Tr[ustees], he thought, would have a good effect. He then spoke 
of ----"----'s communication to Vph., which he had read and thought 
it a weak and unreasonable paper, full of absurdities and crudities. 
He felt quite doubtful if it had been sent to Vph by ----"----'s 
permission, but that Mrs. had in her spite taken the responsibility of 
doing so: this opinion was strengthened by the fact that ----" ---.
seemed to be reconciled to Vph. in the last interview before 
mentioned and by the fact also that it is not likely that a man now so 
near the other world could harbor such vindictive feelings towards 
another as is shown in this paper. 
The letter of Vph. to Tr[ustees] and their resolutions he had 
made use of by showing [them] to several gentlemen in Albany who had at once pronounced the same a valid and binding contract: he wanted another copy of the same for use with other gentlemen. He says Bp. P. has written to the Tr[ustees], to B. R. Wood, in a cautious manner sounding himá and asking his opinions. I. said that irrespective of any friendly feelings for Vph. I could not see why a man universally popular with students and certainly fitted for the ástation should be sacrificed to the ill feelings of [Mrs. Nott? Dr. N?]. The quarrel was a private one and Coll. should not be used to cudgel Vph. and punish him for any real or fancied injury. P[aige] said he meant to have a talk with Dr. B[ackus] tonight and try to persuade him to mild measures, for if harsh ones are used by him it will injure 
him among his people in town. 
6 1/ 4 Out with class botanizing along Coll. brook. 9. Mrs. Paige 
and dau[gther] called. Walked home with them. Mrs. P. talked 
botany most of the way. 
Copy Union College June 20 1859 
Rev. Dr. Hickok 
Dear Sir. The accompanying letter was reduced to its present form by my dear husband on the day when he was taken seriously ill, and its preparation served to overtax his strength. In substance, tho' in a somewhat different form, it was prepared some two years since. After much reflection, and in the exercise of a love of peace which has always distinguished him, he concluded to defer sending it in the hope that time and new events would render it unnecessary. More recently, however, and especially within the last few months which he so strongly believed would terminate his usefulness if not his earthly life, his convictions that he owed to himself some vindications from imputations upon his motives and conduct, and to you a frank expression of his views, returned upon him with such force that he could not withstand them and he desired when he was seized with illness that the letter just then completed should be sent. In excuse fornot sooner complying with his request I must plead the very critical state in which his nervous system has been, the extreme importance of avoiding everything which might lead to further agitation and the engrossing cares which have devolved upon me. I would also add that my desire to have the letter read by Bishop Potter who has been daily expected for the last fortnight and to consult him as to the expediency of sending it at once induced me to retain it till the present time. At the request of Dr. Nott, I have retained a copy of the enclosed letter, and have also given one to Dr. Backus as a Trustee of the College. 
Yours very Respectfully, Urania E. Nott. 
Letter. Union College May 14, 1859 
Rev. Dr. Hickok Dear Sir, 
The plan of Union College with respect to the extent and finish of its buildings; the appropriation and improvement of its grounds, and the outline of its educational system was long since definitely settled. 

In my efforts to carry that plan into execution until you became connected with the Institution, I enjoyed as I believe, the entire confidence, and received the cooperation, not only of the Trustees, but also of the Professors without exception. Since that event, I regret to admit that it has been quite otherwise: for in my subsequent efforts to effect such change in the title deed of the grounds appropriated to an Observatory, a Cemetery, promenades, and sites for future buildings as would secure to the college in perpetuity said grounds for said several uses in conformity to a requisition in the Trust Deed of E. Nott and U. E. Nott and the recurring resolution of the Board of Trustees passed May 1, 1855: in my efforts to prevent the rejection of the tower from the plan of the Geological Hall submitted to the Resident Trustees, which rejection deprived the Institution of the means of placing a clock where it could be seen and a bell where it could be heard, which so reduced the room for prayer in size as to compel a manner of seating which has been, as it was foreseen it would be, a continual source of disorder and, finally, which led to the construction of a flight of stairs in one continuous reach of so great height as to be used by ladies with great reluctance, and even by gentlemen not without inconvenience, not to say peril; in my efforts to effect the Exchange of the Lowber for the Crane and Ely mortgages, an exchange of the wisdom of which there is no longer any doubt; in my efforts to secure the establishment and maintenance of such departments in the Natural Sciences as the Trust Deed provided for and public opinion demanded; to say nothing of other instances of less importance: in all these I have been pained to find not only that I did not receive your cordial cooperation, which I supposed I had a right to expect but on the contrary that I did continually meet arrayed against me the full force of your exerted influence and decidedly expressed opinion. This result, considering that our social relations at the time were pleasant, our opinions in relation to the government of College in harmony, and especially considering that I had hitherto been exciting myself to the utmost to establish your authority and extend your influence: considering these things this result seemed unaccountable till the receipt on the 28th day of January 1857 of a letter from the Treasurer of the College in the fallowing words: 
Dear Sir, I hope you will be able to meet the Trust Deed salaries on the 1st of February: Eleven hundred and twenty-five dollars will be needed in addition to the amount I have on hand. I am glad to learn from Mr. Gilbert that you think of going to Albany with Dr. Backus for the purpose of calling together the Trustees in relation to the Exchange of Mortgages. This I am sure is the only way of stopping the talk on this subject. Those who oppose this transaction are justified by one of the most important and reasonable sections in your Trust Deed. If you can show to the satisfaction of a respectable number of the Trustees that it is absolutely necessary to break your own rules, why then all mouths are stopped, there is no law for such necessity; if on the other hand you neglect to show this necessity, there certainly is no reason why this transaction should not be severely censured; even those few persons who were parties to it are getting uneasy; it is due therefore as well to them as to yourself that a full explanation should be made. This transaction together with that of last March has been the subject of much talk and criticism, and your character as an open and frank man has suffered thereby. As your friend, Dear Doctor, let me urge you not to take those papers until you have the approbation of the Trustees, more than half of whom are in Albany now. You may brave the opposition and criticism and carry your paint without asking any further approbation, but I hope you will not. I should be sorry to see you use a power so much to your own injury. I hope you will leave the papers in my possession till the matter is settled. This was, I think, the understanding. 

Yours truly, Jona. Pearson 
Rev. Dr. Nott Scheny Jan. 28.'57 
The reading of this letter and a communication from individual members of the Committee of Finance which accompanied it forced upon my mind the reluctant apprehension that I was acting with and confiding in those whose confidence I no longer retained. This apprehension was confirmed by the interview with yourself which immediately followed. 
At this interview you gave me warning and advice similar to that given by Prof. Pearson, enforcing the advice thus given, by frankly telling me that the appearances were that while urging the exchange of the Lowber mortgage for the Crane and Ely mortgage, professedly in furtherance of the interests [of the College?] , I was really seeking to promote my own private interests, that you knew this to be the opinion of Prof. Pearson, that you understood it to be the opinion of Judge Paige, but to say nothing of the opinion of others this was your opinion; that if in my present circumstances, I was as I affirmed assisting Crane and Ely to funds in behalf of Union College without any personal interests in the property they were managing, I was acting improperly: that you were not aware that I had heretofore been in the habit, as I also affirmed, of employing and pledging my private property in furthering the interests of College; on the contrary that I had as you supposed acted in behalf of College only as its President, and therefore without implicating myself personally, whereas the control of College funds in my hands must have furnished me with many opportunities of improving my own private property. The injustice of this imputation of my having a covert and adverse interest to the College in the lands in question, has been long since by the written and united testimony of Crane and Ely, and the truth of what I asserted in relation to recent cash advances in behalf of College, verified by the official statement of James Brown and R.M. Blatchford. Convinced by the foregoing evidence that these imputations were groundless, others who had listened to them, hastened personally to express that conviction, and to accompany the same with the frank avowal of their restored confidance; but I am pained to say, that even to this date I have not received from yourself any withdrawal of the imputation of my having attempted under false pretences to apply the College funds to the improvement of real estate. on Long Island, in which I was covertly interested, or any expression otherwise of restored confidence. 

As to the want of cooperation on my part complained of in relation to your election as a Trustee, I can truly say it never entered my mind that you desired for yourself such election till you so informed me long after you removal to Schenectady. But from the moment I knew your wishes, I would say (as the Trustees with whom I acted will bear me witness) that I gave to your election a cordial and efficient support till your personal presence and advocacy of the measure had evidently created an opposition to it in the Board that would render any further efforts of mine in its favor useless. In relation to your complaint that I had prevented your bringing your influence to bear on the Trustees in reference to the establishment of the department of Analytical Chemistry, and the maintenance of a Professor and his assistance therein, my only apology for the error, if error it was, is the deep conviction I then felt and still feel, that the course you were pursuing was a course that must tend to impair your personal influence, which I felt bound in honor and interest alike to sustain and extend. If previous to this 

interview I had given cause for the complaint of want of frankness in conversing with you on the concerns of College, it must have been entirely unintentional at the time, nor can I even now conceive how I could have been so unfortunate as it was then a pleasure to confer with you on these subjects; and sure I am that more time was thus spent with you after your connection with the Institution than had been spent in the same manner with any other officer of College during the preceding fifty years. Since that interview, an interview at which I was made acquainted with the humiliating fact that in your opinion I was sacrificing the interests of College to my own private interest, I admit I [no longer?] felt at liberty in our inter.intercourse to use the freedom I once felt the liberty to use. Nor can it be expected that I shall feel at liberty to do this till the imputation in question is removed and confidence on your part restored. That less, as you affirm, has been done for College than you expected, .-I deeply regret; still you will, I trust, admit that substantial progress has been made. A model preparatory school has at no small expence been provided for the joint benefit of the city and the College. Ten scholarships, the salaries of three Professors in College, and a fourth in the Grammar school have all been provided for by the Nott Trust Fund. Indirectly thro' the influence of the same Trust Fund your own salary and the salaries of all the other Professors have been raised much above what they were when you accepted your appointment in this Institution; and in the meantime you have been furnished with an opportunity, of which you have availed yourself, to prepare and bring before the public several successive volumes. A large building containing all the requisite apartments for instruction in Analytic Chemistry has also been erected and paid for by myself. A similar building with the requisite apartments for geological and mineralogical cabinets has also been erected and paid for by the College with funds raised by mortgages on the College premises. But tho' thus paid for, funds for its gratuitous erection as well as for the erection of the two other large buildings laid down on the plan, had 
á been provided for by myself, the greater part of which funds were for years at my disposal, but the donors refused their consent to the commencement of the erection of said buildings till their occupancy should be secured in perpetuity to the College, by the execution of the preliminary deed promised in the resolution of the Board May 1st, 1853 and required by the Trust Deed of E. Nott and U. E. Nott. With the causes of this unfortunate delay in the execution of this preliminary conveyance you are too familiar to require any information from me. That this delay prevented the erection of Geological Hall with funds previously provided by the President for 

that purpose, will be less regretted by the Trustees when it becomes known that a sum equal to the cost of that building has been withdrawn with his consent from said building fund and appropriated by Mr. Delavan, one of the donors to the purchase of the Wheatley Cabinet so tastefully displayed in said edifice. That your own situation, as you also complain, has been less satisfactory than you expected, I also deeply regret and the more so as I had hoped it would be otherwise, since from the hour of your arrival to the hour of the aforesaid interview, I had held myself in readiness to make sacrifices and put forth the exertions to render your situation pleasant and your influence controlling and to carry forward simultaneously with the erection of the building those educational improvements had in contemplation. It is my deliberate opinion that, had I received the cooperation and support to which I had ever before been accustomed, or been permitted even without opposition to pursue these several objects in my own quiet and unobtrusive way, I should have been able to accomplish all of them without awakening prejudice and to the general satisfaction. But so it has not been; on the contrary in all my efforts to carry into execution the plans and further the interests of College, as already stated, I have continually been met and embarrased by the full force of your influence exerted and your opinion expressed in opposition. At length, disheartened by the continual delays thus occasioned, I ceased to urge forward those improvements. The friends of College on whom I relied for aid became dissatisfied and estranged, distrust for the future of College took possession of many minds, funds placed at my disposal for these objects were withdrawn and other funds intended to be so appropriated have been by misfortune swept away, so that what I once considered easy to accomplish has become difficult, probably impossible. And in review of the past and in explanation of my own conduct in delaying this communication so long, permit me to say that tho' I was distressed on the event of your arrival here (because I thought it ominous of evil) that you did not when transferring your professional relation to Union College transfer also your ecclesiastical relation to the Presbytery within the bounds of which the College was situated, as seemed so fit and proper and was so generally expected, and tho' greatly disappointed myself at not thereafter receiving from you in the several instances already stated the cooperation I had expected and to which I thought I was entitled. Still no serious doubt as to being ultimately able to accomplish on behalf of College all I had undertaken ever entered my mind till the July meeting of the Board in 1856. These doubts were confirmed by our painful interview in January 1857 and still 

further confirmed by your complaint at the meeting of the Board July 1858 in relation to my disregard of your rights in the appointment of Tutors; for I then became convinced that you had not only mistaken my views and misinterpreted my acts, but had also as it seemed to me misapprehend[ed] the inport of the original resolution passed by the Board July 1852 in regard to your letter of acceptance and also the import of the resolution of Dr. Van Vechten's, July 1856, in relation to that original resolution which is in the words following: "Resolved that the secretary inform Dr. Hickok that the delay in his acceptance of his Professorship and Vice Presidency of Union College has not diminished their confidence in him and they shall cheerfully welcome him to the institution, and that the Treasurer be directed to pay the expense of his removal." This resolution does not seem to me to authorize any such claim as I understand you to assert under it: and yet I am quite sure it expresses all of authority it was intended to express, for I tried in vain to procure a more favorable response to your letter and even this was not unanimous, it being seriously objected to at the time by individual members. I was not present when Dr. Van Vechten's resolution of '57 ('56) to which you also appealed was presented; still entirely willing not only to yield to you whatever of authority the original resolution conferred, but prepared also to apologize for any apparent reluctance to your excersicing any authority conferred by the resolution of Dr. Van Vechten which had been appealed to, I wrote to the Dr. for information as to the extent of that authority. His reply was in the words following: 
Albany Aug. 10. '58 
Rev. Pres. Nott Dear Sir, Your note respecting the meaning of a certain resolution introduced by me July 1856 has been received: I have no hesitation in saying that the resolution referred to was not intended to confer upon Dr. Hickok any powers which did not already belong to him as Vice President. These powers I understood Chan. Walworth to explain in general terms as consisting in acting as President when that officer was either absent or sick and in discharging such duties of superintendence and government as the President might assign him. In these views the whole Board seemed to acquiesce. At least no dissent was expressed. 
My resolution certainly was not intended to embrace any thing inconsistent with them. My object in introducing it was not at all to confer any new powers but merely to sooth a certain uneasiness 

which Dr. Hickok seemed to feel. 
With every consideration of respect and esteem Yours etc. Jacob C. VanVechten. 
Still I did not even yet dispair of your becoming convinced that your imputations on my character, which had interrupted our original free and original intercourse were undeserved and, should you be so convinced, I cherish the hope that we might even yet by a united effort reestablish the public confidence that had been impaired and finally accomplish the good originally had in contemplation. Recent events seem however to intimate that the wavering hope to which I have so long clung and which I so reluctantly resign is not likely to be realized. Among these events is the growing manifestation of public distrust in both the metaphysical and physical instruction given in Union College, which distrust commenced with the introduction of the Rational Psychology as a textbook in Union College and has been greatly increased by the recent introduction of Rational Cosmology. Considering the opposition to these works manifested by men of science and metaphysicians, it cannot but be regretted that they should have been introduced without having been previously submitted to the Faculty and approved of by the Board of Trustees, a course concerning which had I been consulted or had I even been aware of it I should for prudential reasons have advised against, and I greatly fear that a mistake has been made from the effects of which it will require both time and prudence to recover. 
Ever since my connection with Union College, it has been a cherished object of desire to conciliate the goodwill and concentrate the action on educational interests of persons holding different civil and religious opinions and belonging to different political and ecclesiastical organizations. It was in furtherance of this cherished object that I cooperated with other Trustees in affecting your appointment to the office you now occupy, and from the time of your acceptance of that office to the time of our painful interview in 1857, the imputations of which barred thereafter in our intercourse the entire freedom which I before enjoyed, I can say with entire sincerity that I labored to establish and extend your influence with the earnestness and the fidelity of a brother and, from the time of that interview to the present hour, in the hope that you would become convinced that you had erred in the imputations heretofor cast upon me and the course hitherto pursued I have continued to be everywhere and on all occasions your apologist and defender. Nor does that man live who has ever yet heard from me a word not fraternal in its spirit or seen in me an act not in keeping with my originally expressed purpose of making your election a preliminary measure for bringing about the cordial and active cooperation of the different civil and ecclesiastical organizations into which the community has become divided and in the gradual introduction and permanent establishment in Union College of an extended and perfected system of Collegiate education to be ultimately and peacefully placed under your administration. And in evidence of that I expected the realization of this expressed purpose and inserted in my Trust Deed (see p. 13 of Trust Deed), executed after your connection with this Institution, a provision for defining and perpetuating the respective rights of the different religious sects included in this contemplated Union. And I should have before this consummated that purpose, so far as is in my power to consummate it, by withdrawing altogether from the government of College could I have obtained the consent for so doing of those Trustees with whom I had acted in your election. But hithe.rto I have been unable to do this. 

On the contrary I have been compelled by a state of things which has arisen, in despite of my advice and my efforts to the contrary, to continue to occupy for peace sake a situation from which under other circumstances, I should most earnestly desire to be released. What is in the future,, should my life be spared a little longer, I know not but this I know: that thus far my efforts to combine harmoniously the agency of different civil and ecclesiastical organizations in the joint and harmo=nious management of Union College have not met with the suc=cess I had anticipated and most humiliating will it be if experience demonstrate that in attempting the harmonious combination of such agencies I have been attempting an impracticable result and that it will become my duty to cancel before my death the provision alluded to in my Trust Deed, introduced for the sole purpose of securing harmony, lest by its continuance it should become the occasion of future and perpetual discord. Be this however as it may, I shall at least have the consolation of having striven to secure such union and the failure, if failure it shall prove, has not been owing to any want o[n] my part of conciliation or of effort. 
Having already passed the ordinary limits alloted the life of man, I have no personal ends to serve or injuries to redress and, altho' in view of the approaching end of life, I do not feel that a want 

of fidelity to the interests of College or to your individual interests is 
among the delinquencies for which I have cause to reproach myself, 
still I avail myself of this opportunity of assuring you that if thro' 
inadvertance or otherwise I have said or done anything in relation to 
your personal character or standing or neglected to say or do 
anything inconsistent with the claims of the strictest friendship, 
deeply regret it and pray God not only that I may be convinced of it 
and forgiven for it, but that the evil it-was calculated to produce may 
be averted from you. 
Be the cause what it may, a state of things exists which 
preadmonishes me that I shall not be permitted to see the 
completion of the improvements undertaken, or the peaceful 
consummation of the measures contemplated. And I wish it 
therefore to be understood that I no longer hold myself responsibl~ 
for these desirable results. Having however lost none of my interest 
in these undertakings, I shall rejoice [to] see that accomplished by 
others which I have failed to accomplish. And though it would have 
been a happiness to have received from you a withdrawal of the 
imputations cast upon me already alluded to, as well of a private as 
of a public nature, still and though I should never enjoy this 
happiness, it shall never by the help of God prevent my doing, as far 
as in me lies, justice to your merits or hinder my rejoicing the good 
you may be made the instrument of doing whether to the College, the 
Church or the world. 
Very respectfully Yours, Eliph. Nott. 
(The above letters are copied by Vph's permission.) 
[For Hickok's answer, see July 25, 1859.] 
[The words are probably underscored by him and not by Dr. N. á Remarks in the margin are reserved for another time. (Typist's 
note)] 
Tuesday June 28, 1859. Fine cool day. 81/2 Met Dr. Swits, homeopath, driving up to see Dr. Nott. He gives no encouragement for ultimate recovery. 9. Opened Library till 10 o'clock. Prof. G[illespie] as usual dropped in, said he had seen Judge P[aige] last evening and conversed about Vph's prospects, told P. he was a peace-maker, had tried to pacify matters, had nothing against Vph. that he did not tell him openly to his face, thought this the honest course, but others had not done so. 11. Dr. V. called in, on his way to his lecture, says the accáounts of the old City Treasurer are in a bad state and that the accountant has already discovered more than 4000 D[ollars] deficient. 

In a conversation with Judge P. he told me that E. C. D[elavan] had remarked the other day that Vph's book was a tissue of heresies, and when asked by a student if he had read it answered that he had not and did not want to read it!! 11 1/2 Prof. [Gillespie?] says L[ewis] s conversation with Mrs. [Nott] seemed to have some good effect and that she promised that when Bp. P[otter] came again he should call and see him. I hinted that a petition, respectful and kind, from the students would have some influence with Tr[ustees], that the petition of course treat the matter in such a manner as not to offend or annoy ----"----or his friends but merely to express their wishes that Vph. should remain in Coll. in his present capacity until such time as there should be a vacancy in the Presidency. P[aige] said he would ask Dr. L[ewis] about it. 12 M. Saw Judge P., handed him another copy of Vph's letter to Tr[ustees] [and] their resolution upon it, by his request; he said he had used the other copy to good advantage. Saw Dr. Backus a moment and home to dinner. 
3 Botany class, analysis of plants. 5 P. M. G[illespie dropped into Treas. office and looking over E. T. P[otter]'s plans of Grad. Hall said he had lost confidence in his efficiency, didnt like his sending on specifications and plans in small parcels and at the last moment. We talked of the usual topic I. Vph. must go, as I told you before; and perhaps I shall be sent adrift in the same boat . I should long since have been dismissed were it not for the friendship that exists or did exist between my wife and Mrs. [Nott]. Have disobliged ----"----too often for my own safety. No man ever did so and remained in U. C. If ----"----sneezes, all his friends must sneeze. 
6 P. M. Tea. 8. Called on Miss Anna Yates in Front Street to talk about the air &c. of Litchfield, Conn. which has been highly recommended by letter by her sister, Mrs. Jno. Stuyvesant, for my wife; did not find her in, but found a relative, Miss Magoffin. Called also on old Mrs. Jeremiah Fuller, corner of Front and Church Streets; she has been bedridden for months and even years and to all appearances cannot survive long. Called also upon my neighbor Miss Hook who has just lost a brother in Brooklyn suddenly. 
Wednesday June 29, 1859. 2 o'clock Wed. Morng. Just finished copying Dr. N's letter to Hickok. Till 3 o'clock P. M. very hot; then a violent wind and rain from the west cooled the air. 
8 1/2 A.M. Prof. Peissner] has spoken with Dr. L[ewis] abt. 

students petition; he thinks it had better be postponed a little until milder measures are tried. 9. Prof. G[illespie] stepped into Treas. office; [I] showed him another small batch of plans, or rather one plan on [a] small sheet, of flues: it came almost too late to commence them. G. thinks it strange that he sends in his plans thus by driblets and has nothing ahead. G. says Judge P. had told him that Bp. P. had been writing to Trust[ees] and remarked that it looked bad for Vph; thinks Vph. would be better for us and College than a new man. 
I. But he cant stay; "his flint is picked." It was done more than two years ago. 
G. How do you know that?á 
I. I guess it --it is experience, human nature. 
10 1/2 Prof. C[handler] says that Prof N[ewman] has a call or probably will have one to the Presidency of Lawrence University, Wis., and that he had better go. N. is generally looked upon as a lazy man and inefficient. I think he would not accept the place: the work would be much and pay small. 
I. Your accounts for Anal. Laboratory show bal[ance] on wrong side; you had better make your estimates of expenses for next year and I will submit them to the Finance Comm. next Sat. Even'g. 
C. I will do so. The Labor[oratory] cannot meet expenses any more; for my own part I would rather give up the Laboratory and confine myself to the Chem. Lectures to undergrad[uates] and to private investigations. But if the Coll. will support it and give me an assistant, then I would be in favor of going on. How about Vph's chance? 
I. Good for nothing: he can not be Prex. --settled long ago. 
C. I heard down town that Vph's friends were going to put out ----"-.--, elect Vph. 
I. I heard also that P. M. D_. [?] told one of our "Hill" folks that Vph. was opposed by ----"----'s friends who meant to put him out but that there would be a fight about it. 
C. I heard that a certain Profs dau[ghter] told in town that if Vph. was elected her Pa would resign. 
I. Bosh! What talk! 
11. A. M. Dr. V. reports of City Tr[easurer] that when confronted by the comm[ittee] now investigating his accts. he was forced to acknowledge discrepancies and errors -but cant tell how they happened. 12 M. Prof. J[ackson], conv[ersation] reserved for the common topics; we both shunned the exciting question because we should surely differ there. 2 1/2 P.M. Dr. N. sent for me; found him sitting in his arm chair in the parlor, looking pretty well for him. He held and squeezed my hand for some time. 
I. How do you do Dr. --I am glad to see you downstairs again. 

Dr. N. I am very sick. I ought not to be here. 
I. I think it will do you good to come down occasionly. (Mrs. N. was present during the whole interview.) Dr. N. I want you to get me that resolution about my house; the res[olution] in which the Trustees voted that so much might be expended upon it. How much was it? 
I. A little over 4000 D[ollar]s. I will copy it for you. Dr. N. How much have I expended of that 4000? 
I. A trifle over 2000 D[ollar]s upon the house; and about the same amt. you allowed to be used for paying certain printing bills and for extra salaries to Jackson and Lewis. (At the last the Dr. fidgetted a little --not desiring to hear the last remark.) Dr. N. But the Tr[ustees] allowed $4,000 to be expended on my house and I have used only $2000 of it; then $2000 remains to be expended . (Not to agitate the Dr. by recalling the fact that all the 4,000 was already credited to him, I simply assented to this remark.) Mrs. N. Do you think it will cost 5000 D[ollar]s to finish that (President's) house? Does ""Garry" (Van Vranken, carpenter) say so? 
I. If finished as originally planned, it will, but it may be finished for much less --say 3,000 or 3,500 dollars. Mrs. N. But I mean a substantial plain finish --pine doors and stairs, no plate glass, no expensive marble mantle pieces, no hard finish, but walls good enough to paper, no stone porch --only good plain work. 
I. I will ask our Carpenter "Garry" to estimate upon it -also Brignall the mason. Dr. N. When is Ed. Potter coming up with his plans? it's needful that he should come up. 
I. I will write for him to come. á Dr. N. Have you got room in the cellar of Grad[uates] Hall for recitation rooms? 
I. I fear the massive piers will too much break up the room and spoil it for any such purpose; there will be a large space in the centre probably. Dr. N. Then this plan is all wrong if by it we have sacrificed these recitation rooms. 
I. I must say that the rectangular plan suits me better: it is more economical and affords much the greater conveniences for rooms. Dr.N. Then where shall we get recitation rooms since these are lost? I fear we have lost a great advantage in this plan. Mrs. N. Oh! that's no matter. Dant trouble yourself about that --the building is to be a beautiful one and there will be some provision for rec. room[s]. 
I. Yes, Dr. there will [be] four under the ascending seats in Chapel. 

These will be all we use for the present. I must now leave for my recitation. 
3. to 4. Botany, analyses of Anelilotus officinalis, Urtica graciles, Oxalis stricta, Anthernis nobile, Rosa lucida &c&c. 4. to 5. Dropped into Vph's study and gossiped for an hour. First he told me that he did [not?] address the 0.B.K. Society of N. Y. University; when got there found no word given out for the address and when [he] went to audience room found not above half dozen persons there; deferred address till another time. Second, asked me how I liked the letter. 
I. I think it a strange queer production, an evidence of a wandering mind, sophistical and ver:y wide of a sound logical argument or narrative. Many of those charges I have had thrown upon me --two years ago --and now you must bear them. Vph. The allusion which he makes to my mention of your name gives a wrong view of what I said: it was merely this, that you and Judge P[aige] thought it wrong to pile another mortgage upon the Van Alst Farm. I made no assertion that you thought him dishonest or using College funds for his private benefit. As to my ecclesiastical relations, Dr. N. clearly understood my views and assented to them. 
I. I think it quite prudent for the Pres. of U. C. to be New School rather Old Sch[ool], which ch[urch] has now furnished us a Pres. for 55 yrs. -It will be said by and by that the Coll. belongs to the latter Denom[ination] Vph. What had I better do with á.this letter? I dont feel disposed to fritter away my Ume in answering such statements. 
I. Write a mild and temperate reply to the important points, and wait for a proper time to use it. Vph. What do you think of the legal bearing of my letter and the Resolutions of the Board. 
I. That they form a perfect contract which cannot be broken except by the consent of both parties. Vph. Well I am disposed to wait quietly till the Trustees act, and to take advantage of such circumstances as may seem to offer for my profit in this matter. I feel in no way troubled --my position is strong, but if the Tr[ustees] see fit to reject me or to annoy by such ways and means [as] are at their disposal, why then I must leave, freeing myself from all obligations to them. 
Much more was said, Mrs. Vph. being in the adjoining room and occasionally taking part in the conversation. 6. Stopped Dr. Backus in front of my house; and asked if he could attend a Fin. Comm. meeting on Sat. night. Said he would if he was here and was not too much pressed. Then asked him the question if in the coming conflict about Vph. I was to be dragged into it. He said emphatically No. He had heard Dr. N. speak within a year in such a manner of me as to show that his feelings were friendly-Dr. B. Your letter in that letter of his was not introduced to censure you but for the purpose of showing what seemed to be the fact that it was in part dictated by Vph., and the reason for this belief was that the memorable interview betw. Vph. and Dr. N. happened but a short time after and the expressions which he used were similar. 

I. That letter was private (as Dr. N. knew and acknowledged) and was written while sick in bed. It was written because I could not communicate the facts otherwise. Dr. H[ickok] never saw it to my recollection till months afterwards when it was brought by Dr. N's communicating it to you, you to Judge P[aige] and he to me. Then for the first [time] I read a copy to him and to Dr. H. and wrote an explanatory note to Dr. N. deprecating the idea which he had insinuated to you that I had impugned his motives and charged him with bad conduct. I asked Dr. N. to consider that not a part of the original and never heard of the matter after. Dr. B. Vph. has brought about the present state of things by his want of tact and by his unfortunate charges against Dr. N. and by his never retracting them. 
I. I told you two and a half years ago that he could'nt be Pres. Still I feel distressed at the idea of having a new man here. We shall have a hard time of it. Dr. B. Now I will tell you why, in my mind, no compromise can be made, why peace cannot be declared, and I tell it to you in strict confidence, not to be breathed. I have only told it to Judge P[aige] last night. Vph. told me in so many words that he had no confidence in ----" ----'s integrity. After that, what could I do while such a shocking charge remains without apology. I tried all I could for [Dr. Hickok?] to bring about cordial feeling but when that statement was made I could do no more. 
I. I am sorry to hear that. I had all along hoped there might be a door for hope of reconciliation. 
Thursday June 30 1859. Cool and windy. 8 1/2 o'clock A. M. A Miss Wild of Boston, on her way from Mississippi home dropped in this morning to make a few days visit. Her fatiguing ride of many miles by steamboats and R. Roads, together with exposure at Niagara Falls yesterday brought on an attack of ague and fever, this afternoon while making a call upon her old friend Mrs. Foster, now boarding at Professor Newman's, and this evening we found her sick in bed unable to be moved. Miss W[ild]s mother was an Albany woman and connection of Prof. Dr. March. Miss W. was for a time a teacher in the Union School three years ago; it was by this circumstance that she became known to us. 9 o'clock. A.M. Edw. Tuckerman Potter, the young architect of Graduates' Hall, called this morning. He came up from N. Y. to see the progress of the work and pronounces it well done, much better than he had anticipated. His worst fault is a delay in anticipating the work to be done and providing for it. He now proposes to substitute stone for bricks in constructing the building if the expense shall not be more. 11. "Ben" Lyon called for a voucher for money paid the Bd. of Education in 1858. The old City Treasr., Clute, seems to have made sad havoc with the city's money and accounts, He can give no proper excuse for his delinquencies and will in consequence suffer as a dishonest man. 11 1/2 A.M. To the city for money due for interest on bonds, and Mr. Prof. P[eissner] walked down with me . He says J[ackson] is "mad" with G[illespie] because he is drawing off from the opposition to Vph. and does not keep his tongue agoing. P. says the oppos[ition] are dead set upon young Prof. C[handler] to get him over to their side, for as it is they are hardly respectable in numbers, only two against all the Fae. P[eissner] says Dr. L[ewis] means to talk with all the persons he can and to influence them in Vph's favor, that he is'nt going to keep still; for the opposition does'nt, and why should he? 12. M. Paid $980. in on Coll bond and mortgage held by Schen. Sav. Bank. Collected $175. of Chadsey and had promise from City Treasurer to deposite [it] in Schen. Bk. to credit of U. C. $220. this afternoon, being bal[ance] of int[erest] on City Bonds now due. 

2 1/2. P. M. G[illespie] says students begin to talk about Vph's going away; Freeman of Given's Hotel says they are getting up a petition in Vph's favor. 3. So busy about Treasury matters, being the last day of fiscal year, that I omitted Bot. Recit. Hale of 1850 from Mt. Morris, Ill. called and was shown the cabinet of shells and minerals. Called upon Mrs. [Nott] and showed her the resolutions which he desired me to copy; also copied the account therein mentioned. And she expects the Trustees to finish his house: the expence will be 3000 to 5000 dolls: more likely, the latter sum. Where Coll. can raise the amount I cannot divine. 4. P.M. Called on Vph. and took back "the Letter" which [Mrs. Nott] sent him a few days since. He thinks matters are working for his be,nefit, that Judge 
P. and Coc[hrane] are doing all that it is proper to do among the state officers and that Tremaine, Attar. Gen., speaks decidedly in reference to the Letter of Vph. and Trust[ees] Resolution thereon, that they would be damned by the public if they broke that contract. He says the students are working right; they seem to be guided by some prudent person who will restrain all exuberance of passion. Vph. is writing an answer to "the Letter" --perhaps shall not use it, but desires to have it ready. Wants to see----"----but they wont let him for fear he shall speak about "the Letter"; desires not to do so if not desirable; wonders if he [Dr. N.] signed that letter after his last interview with him; thinks the signature is evidently his "sick" signature, which differs from his former; if so, shouldnt have thought after what passed between them. 5. P.M. G[ilbert] counted cash in Treasury this evening and gave a certificate as to its amount $723.59: overruns by some omission, $20. 6. Tea and after with wife to Treas. office to finish up business 8. Saw Mrs. Nott. The Dr. is pretty well this evening. Called to see Miss Wild at Prof. Newmans. 
Friday July 1, 1859. Fine cool day, 10 1/2 o'clock A. M. Saw Jona Crane at Dr. N's door, but he came not to Treas. office --perhaps because he could give no encouragement in respect to int[erest] due on Craig & Ely's bond and morgage, now two years in arrears. 11. o'clock Dr. L[ewis] says the Old Serpent --the Devil --has entered our beautiful garden, and is playing abominable mischeif; men are naturally bad enough but he makes them worse. All this in reference to our College troubles. 11 1/2 Prof. P[eissner] spoke in reference to the students petition: of the danger of their doing a rash act, of saying something to offend one party or the other without doing any good. 12. o'clock M. Dr. V[an Vechten?] spoke of City Treas., Clute, that new discrepancies appear and no corresponding explanations from him. Prof. G[illespie] among other things spoke of College's losing Brown's subscription of $25,000 by the opposition to some of Dr. N's measures. I said that my understanding of the matter was this: a subscription for $100,000 to finish College Buildings was attempted some years since, conditional upon the whole sum's being made up. The following are said to have been obtained: James Brown for 25,000, Dr. Nott 25,000, Mr. Lowber 25,000, Mr. E. C. Delavan 10,000: Total $85,000. Of these the second and third are and have been out the question for a long time. Mr. D. said he meant to give $10,000 to College in his own time but for a time wouldnt do it because Dr. N. did not pay up his subscrip[tion] to Susquehannah and Albany R. R. and because he had afterwards spent largely upon his tavern in Albany; lately he spent the money upon the Wheatley Collection which left only James Brown's $25,000. Whether he will eventually pay it, no one knows, but his not paying it before is doubtless because the others are not ready or able to fulfil their promises. 2. P.M. Vph. says Jona. Crane came up to do what he can to help his cause, that his son-in-law Bliss sent him up, that he talked some time and prayed with ----"----who said in a d[e]sponding way 

that his life had been a failure, he had'nt accomplished anything worth speaking of &c. C[rane] said if he had only known of the contract between Vph. and Tr[ustees] he should have made different answers to----"----when he told him not to let any prying Yankees know anything about the business at H[unter] _P(oint] --to keep dark; he should have told him that he (Vph) had a right to know these matters. Vph. said he did not know who they had got for candidates in opposition. T[appan] of Michigan Univ. had been talked of by J(ackson] but it had been reported that he could not stay there in any case, must [leave] and that he had been applied to by some persons to take his[?] place as Chancellor. 2 1/2 P.M. Dr. Nott sent for me; found him sitting up in his bedroom; looking pretty well, 
. calm and much more like himself of old. What seemed really a favorable symptom was that with his palsied hand he gave mine a tolerable grip and carried it halfway to his head. I said. Dr. you look better than when I saw you last. Dr. Well I am not any better, I am very sick Mrs. N. Yes, you are better. Dr. What did I send for Mr. P. for? Mrs.N. That resolution about the expenditure upon President's House. 
I read and explained it to the Dr. as I understood it, saying that I understood that the Tr[ustees] voted to appropriate the whole $4,000 to that purpose if it were required. The Dr. assented and said he wanted the house finished in the plainest manner, tho' not meanly, "as well as this house," said he. He desires the carpenter and mason to make estimates of cost and bring it to the lowest possible point. Afterwards saw his old housekeeper, Mrs. Humphrey, who said the Dr. would yet occupy his seat upon the stage on Comm't. Day! "He is'nt dead yet", said she. 5 With wife to call upon Miss Wild at Prof. Newman's; a trifle better. 7 1/2 G[illespie] dropped into my house, having just come from Albany and as usual somewhat elated, tongue limber &c. Said he had seen B. R. Wood in A[lbany] and that W. proposed as a compromise and as a present escape from our troubles to make no choice now of a Pres. Why should we supersede Dr. N. while still alive and promising to live some time longer! 
I. That is a very proper and just view to take of the case: if followed out, we may have peace and quietness for at least a time. 
G. I will tell you a secret but in confidence. J[ackson] and F[oster] are going to send in a petition to Tr[ustees] against Vph's book and J[ackson] wants me to sign it. I refused to do so unless some of the Tr[ustees] desired me to do so and then I will write one of my own. J.[ackson] is angry with me for forsaking the opposition as he calls it.. 

The scientific errors in the book are bad enough, but his sins against light and knowledge are much worse. J[ackson] did right in exposing them in his recitation room. There was no other course to be pursued, with such a contemptible book: the reputation of College and of each Professor suffers from it. 
L.Granting all the errors of the book, I do not like the manner of J[ackson]'s attack, his spirit, nor the effect upon Coll.; but say what you will, I do not feel --my judgement is not convinced --that we ought to raise a row in College now just as Dr. Nott [is] about to die. The shock of two such events as the death of Dr. N. and the violent thrusting away of Hickok would be too much for us; and the new untried man, ignorant of our peculiarities, might turn our Eden in[to] Chaos. 
G.
There is the difficult point. It is not expedient now to lose H.; it is perhaps on the whole better to put off the evil day, and adopt Woods advice. I'll tell you another thing, but you must keep dark: J[ackson] has got the opinions of all the leading scientific men in the country adverse to H.'s book and these are to be presented to the Tr[ustees]. 

L. 
I dont like the spirit of this attack; ,it looks vindictive. The book doubtless has errors; I am bound to believe it has for, altho' I have never read it, those who have say so --still there is another way of 


testifying  for the truth  than  this.  We need  quiet  at  this  time.  H.,  
aside from his book, is a valuable  man  for us  .  We can  tolerate  his  
errors  for his good qualities.  

At this time -nearly 9 o'clock, F[oster] and wife came in and G[illespie] was so voluble that he engaged the whole company in the discussion. F[oster] said but little, altho' it is evident that his mind is dead set against H[ickok]. 
Saturday July 2, 1859. Fine day, rain from 5 to 9 in evening, also a little about 8 1/2 in morning, wind being south with prospect of more. 8 1/2 Met Dr. Swits just leaving Dr. N's door; he says he is evidently improving, so much so that in addition to moving his hand, he also can raise his palsied foot and place it over the other. 9 o'clock 
A.M. Prof. P[eissner] spoke about Prof. C[handler] being beset by J[ackson] and F[oster] to induce him to sign a paper in connection with them and G[illespie] if he can be brought to it, condemning Vph's book, which paper is to be presented to the Board. P[eissner] said that for a young man like C[handler] it was poor policy to take sides either for or against Vph. because by taking sides he lost friendship whilst by remaining neutral he offended no one. 10 o'cl.ock A.M. saw C[handler] and engaged him to make out an estimate of his expenditures on the Laboratory for the coming year, 

to be presented before the Finance Committee, and at 11. he came 
over to Treas. Office to regulate his accounts and perfect his 
statement. 
12 1/2 Vph. came in to get a copy of the Resolutions of the Bd. 
giving Dr. N. $2,800, a years int[erest] on the Lowber mortgage, also 
paying certain law expenses on the Stuyvesant Cove property and 
paying [Dr. N.] also $11,000 from the Hunter Point property; what 
he wants of these I know not, but it seems they are to be used today. 
2 o'clock P.M. Gra[ha]m, bookseller in town, dropped in; he says 
students are indignant that Vph. is to be pushed out; they are getting 
up resolutions to be signed by all the students asking Vph. to remain 
in College. He came up to see Gleed, senior, about the wording of 
them. I advised by all means to leave out anything reflecting upon 
any oneá individual, and especially to insert one commendatory of Dr. 
N. --to which he assented, promised to do. G[illespie] says J[acksonj told him he had got 25 names of the first scientific men in this country to a condemn[atory paper of Vph's book. From all these things it can be seen how anxious are Vph's opponents to crush him: no means will be spared to accomplish this desired end; the scientific guns will be fired from the "Hill," the theological battery will come up from the country, and the small fire of ----11----'s dislike will be most annoying of all because, as he directs, the whole regiment of his friends attack with blind hatred. 4 P.M. Prof. C[handler] to Treas. office with Anal. Labor[atory] estimates which, summed up, produce this proposition: if College will pay his salary, $1000, and fifty more for apparatus and chemicals for Chemistry lectures, then he will engage that the Labor[oratory] shall pay all the other expenses. As usual, on to Vph's troubles; says it is hard to be neutral in the midst of so much heat and talk; from which I think it is settled that J[ackson]'s influence has done its work in getting him over to the opposition! 
Henry Baldwin, a grad. of U. C., called upon me today --one of the oddest cracked fellows in the world. He now acts as clerk in 
á Jenkins law office, Albany. 5 o'clock P.M. Prof. G[illespie] says that it is strange that J]ackson], tho' decidedly hostile to Vph., keeps so mum and chews his dissatisfaction as a cow chews her cud; did'nt like to see a man afraid to speak his mind, it looked cowardly. J. is mad with me (says he) because I dont get in a heat as he does and wont sign his paper; he says, "Well then, you seperate yourself from the scientific faculty." G[illespie] answers, "I can stand it; you seperate from me. J. wanted me to get Pierce to sign his paper condemning Vph's book, I wouldnt do it." The recent new honor which G. has re.ceived from Col[orado] Coll. has increased his vanity threefold, and made him more offensive and unbearable than ever. The only way to meet his inordinate self-conceit is to laugh at and be amused by it. 5 to 9 Great shower with wind. 

Sunday July 3, 1859. Rainy at intervals during the day. At home all day with wife. At noon Mary and Fanny Anable called and announced that they came last evening with Bp. Potter. Dr. Nott is decidedly upon the gain; he can lift his palsied hand to his head and move his foot. 
Monday July 4, 1859. Cool enough for fires and for overcoats in the morning and evening. 8 1/2 oclock A.M. On going upon the "Hill" this 
morning found there had been one of those "rowdy" fracases which students sometimes have on occasions like this. A party, probably some of them drunken, broke open the engine house and attempted to use the fire engine for the purpose of flooding the Chapel, but failed from not knowing how to use it, or from being disturbed in their mischeif by Dr. H[ickok]. They then drew the "machine" over to North College and left it in front of that building. 11. Prof. G[illespie] came in and announced that he had just left Bp. P[otter] as Mr. Delavan came in. G. says that the Bp. said that he had not made up his mind what should be done in regard to the war upon Vph. whose Psychology was well enough because it was all in the clouds, where he should have staid, but that when he came down, as in his Cosmology, to practical matters he made a mistake. Bp. P. asked G. if he had made up his mind as to Vph's book; G. said he had but should not announce it unless he was asked to do so by a Trustee. Bp. P. said he supposed one day's notice would be sufficient, to which G. said yes. G.'s ineffable vanity is such that he desires to be thought of so much consequence that his opinion must be asked as a favor by the Tr[ustees] and when given it must be taken as final --a settling of the whole question. 
1. P.M. Received a line (one line) from E. C. D[elavan] saying he would be down this morning and would call upon us. The occasion of this call is a certain order which Judge P[aige] wrote and signed, with C. B. Cochrane, of the Finance Comm, ordering the Treasurer to take such measures at law as would save for the College the $40,000 now in Mr. Jas. Brown's hands, the avails of the Lowber mortgage. Dr. N. refused to sign it by advice of Mr. C. N. Potter, his attorney --a refusal to be expected because he is a partner of Mr. L]owber]'s in the profits of the property concerned. Dr. B[ackus] also refused, until Dr. N. signed it; --and now Mr. D[elavan] by returning the paper and neglecting "to call and see about it," as he promised, altho he had time to spend with Bp. P. and with Prof. J., shows plainly there is not moral courage enough with a majority of the committee to do a necessary and proper act for fear of ----"----or of J. B[ackus?] What all this hesitation means I know not and am loath to suspect; but G[illespie] this afternoon of his own accord asked significantly if I knew that ----"----had a personal interest in Lowber's refusal to pay the $40,000 bond and mortgage to U. C. I said I had always refused to believe any such insinuation; so had Judge P[aige] and that I now would not believe it unless the evidence was undoubted. G. thought his inference from facts stated to him as perfectly reliable. I then stated the fact before mentioned of a majority of the Fin. Comm. refusing to sign an order to collect the money due from L[owber] He thought this confirmed his statement. 

3. Met Bp. P. going to R. Road, shook hands and passed on. 3. Dr. L[ewis] called, much cast down at the sickness of his little grand.daughter; said he had been to Albany and had a long talk with Dr. Halley upon Coll. matters. H[alley] seemed fully to agree with him in reference to Vph; talked also with Dr VanVechten who did not express his opinion; probably he hangs the other way and is opposed to Vph. At his own request (Dr. L's) he called and had a long conversation with Bp. P[otter] this morning, doing nearly all the talking and fully explaining the state of the case as he understood it betw. Vph. and ----"----, and plainly placing before him the consequences to Coll. of Vph.'s leaving, or of being driven away. The most noticeable remark which Bp. P. made was rather unguardedly saying he had heard by letter from here that Vph. did not teach well. The same question he asked of G[illespie], who probably confirmed it. 5 to 6 Prof. G. called again with a new budget of news from the seat of war. He had today received a letter from a Trustee in N. Y. of three full pages, large sheet, in reference to our Coll. matters; the drift of which was that Bp. P. was to succeed, and that he (G.) had better understand this and get on the right side! (The writer was probably B.) G. said he asked Bp. P. if he would accept and was answered that he knew who wrote the letter and that he had answered "no" but, said G., his "no" had such a tone as sounded but half in negative. 
This letter is doubtless part of a plot concocted here upon the "Hill" to get G.'s condemnation to Vph's book, so that it may be said that all the scientific Profs. are opposed to it. J[ackson] has tried and failed to bring him over, because he did [not?] toutch his vanity in the right spot: but what if J. wrote to B. in New York hinting that a word from him would put G. on the right side? What also if J. informed Bp. P. that G. would only give his opinion when asked for it by a Trustee, hence, asked if he would be ready at a days notice? G. 

is evidently playing fast and loose in order to magnify his importance and curry favor and fawning from one side or the other. That side which bids highest gets his vote. In regard to Bp. P's being Pres., he does not know what to think: doubts whether it would be so well for the Fae. because he would play a second whereas Vph. would be more meek. 8 1/2 o'clock P.M. Called on Vph. and had a long talk with him. Of all the men I meet he is the calmest when our Coll. affairs are discussed. It is understood the students have unanimously petitioned for Vph's stay. Son Willie indisposed. 
Tuesday July 5, 1859. Cool all day. Fire is agreeable. 8 1/2 o'clock 
A.M.Saw Vph. a few minutes and found him as usual cool, calm, and apparently unconcerned as to the result of the war now raging around him: he feels no doubt that ----11----'s friends desire above all things to obtain so powerful a competitor as Bp. P[otter] for the Pres[idency] but dont think he will consent to it, as the fact of his consenting to serve in his place and consorting alone with his opponents would have a bad look for his assertion that he had not made up his mind as to the proper course to be taken. He will not allow the opposition to rest upon his book for their cheif strength in ousting him; it is a false position and a false charge, while the real one, ----11----'s letter is in his hands, equivalent to a declaration of war: this must be brought forward and made known to every member of the Board if need be. 
9 to 10 o'clock A.M. Library open. 11 o'clock A.M. Dr. Vedder informs me that the accounts of the old City Treasurer show still further deficiencies, amounting in all now to about $5,400. 12. M. Prof. N[ewman] spoke of Vph's troubles --had lately a talk with F[oster?] on the subject and found him very set in his views: nothing seemed too bad to be said of the book: it is an unpardonable sin; words failed to describe the utter silliness of it and the injury which the author has done to the cause of Science and to the College. But, says N[ewman] if it be so bad, its influence certainly cannot long be left; it will be condemned by the scientific and learned public and that will end the matter. How in this contest of opinions we become perfect bigots to our own opinions! Our spectacles are right, but our neighbors see dimly and grope after the truth! 
4. Prof. G[illespie] as usual called at Treas. Office. He had nothing new upon the subject and soon slid into various arguments pro and con for the dismissal of Vph. 6. To Van Voasts swamp for flowers with portion of class. 81/2. To meeting of Board of Education at Union School and home again at about 9 1/2. Miss Wild of Boston left Schen. this P.M. to meet her sister and friends in Albany. 

Wednesday July 6, 1859. Cool and pleasant. 8 1/2. A.M. Dr. Nott sent for me and made several suggestions. 1. Spoke of a poor boy in Conn. who wants an education and some help in getting it; I promised to try to make him bell-ringer if a vacancy occurs. 2. Desired arrangements made for a church for Commencement in place of the Presbyterian meeting house which is about to be pulled down in part for renovation. I suggested the 1st Dutch or 2nd Dutch houses. 3. He spoke about having servants sleeping in the College buildings that they might [be] at hand on any occasion [of] mischeif or accident, a subject I have often spoken of before and recommended it. 4. He authorized Abbot, student, to go home before examination for the purpose of earning money for next term's expenses. 5. Advised sending for Dr. Van Vechten for one of the examiners at the close of this session. 6. Mrs N. and he spoke of employing John Marsh to make the music at Commencement. 7. He desired me to employ a servant for him to help his man (black) Moses Viney whom he wanted all the time about him. I suggested William Martin, servant in the Laboratory, and afterwards c(:llled upon Prof Chandler in regard to him. C[handler] demurred because no new man would answer his purpose, and he must have one for the next three weeks. Subsequently Dr. N. rode over and begged him off. 
In calling upon the Dr. I said, "You seem better, Dr. He. "Oh! I am no better, I am very sick. -My mind has been a great deal disturbed for some time back about certain matters." Mrs. N. remarked afterwards that he had taken the night before a cup of strong tea which made him sleepless the whole night. Dr. L. says the Dr. had told him that he had done no good in the [world] --his life has been useless --that he had been unable to accomplish any of his plans. The Dr. wanted me to call every day and see him. I answered that I should be glad to do so but feared to intrude for fear of disturbing him. 11. Dr. L[ewis]s little granddaughter Keziah Peissner, is very sick, probably near unto death. If she dies he (Dr. L.) will be greatly disturbed by it. 
11 1/2 to 12 1/ 4 Vph. for some days has been writing an answer to ----"----'s long letter to him, a copy of which is found in this book. This morning he read it to me. In spirit [it] is mild, calm, free from all bitterness and conciliatory. He suffers many of his strongest points to pass rather than seem to implicate ----"----in misstatements or weak reasoning. Of all the men on "the Hill" Vph. is the coolest and most undisturbed. He has taken no active measures to defend himself or to obtain the favor of Trustees. He has made no recriminations when attacked, but appears and says he is wholly 

unconcerned, patiently waiting for what may be the result of the 
coming meeting. On the contrary, his opponents are raising Heaven 
and Earth to heap odium upon his book and prejudice against him 
among the Tr[ustees]. 
The two most excited men in the Fae. are L[ewis] and J[ackson] 
--one for, the other against Vph. 3 to 4 o'clock P.M. Botany -.
more plants to analyze than could be done within the hour. 5. My 
classmate Munson, dentist of Washington City, called a few moments 
--visited the Wheatley Collection, Chapel &c. 6 to 8 1/ 4 In office 
with wife posting books, preparatory to balancing the books for the 
year's business. 8 to 9 Walk with wife to town. 9-9 1/2 Met 
Graham, grad. of Coll. and bookseller, at his door a few rods below 
my house. He is much stirred about Vph's going away and the cause 
of it: thinks such a change would be disastrous for the College and a 
disgrace for all concerned in it. .
Thursday July 7, 1859. Beautiful day. 9 1/2 o'clock A. M. Col. Stephen Yates and Prof. Todd of Indianapolis, Ia., called and desired to see the Wheatley Collection. The former is a great wag, and somewhat witty. 11 o'clock Called upon Dr. Nott and found him rather nervous today, having had little or no sleep the last night. He is very forgetful and often wants the same thing done for him; thus today for the fortieth time perhaps he wanted a list of the drafts which he has paid for officers and students, and a list of those bonds and mortgages which he is to have from the Nott Trust Fund. 
12. M. Dr. L[ewis] spoke of the bad spirit of the opposition to Vph. When he (L) wrote his "Six days of Creation," it was more fiercely attacked by scientific men abroad and much more was writ.ten against [it] , than when Vph's book was published. "Our own men took no part against it; they felt a sympathy for me then and the opposition to me and my book died away: now how different. Vph. 's book was not so obnoxious to severe criticism as mine, yet from among our own number there is a persistent influence going forth 
á which is continually stirring up outside criticisms of the severest 
kind. The Princeton review was written by Alexander, a personal 
friend of J[ackson]; the article in the Math. Monthly was written by 
Patterson of Albany, another personal friend of J. to whom he (P.) is 
in a great measure indebted for his present office of Sealer of 
Measures for the state; and if the truth could be known, it would 
probably be found that the little squib in this months Silliman came 
from or was incited by some one of our own number." 
Prof. N. says he heard in town that a new candidate for the Presidency has been named there: Dr. Backus of the Pres. Ch. There is no probability however that there is any serious thought of this ambng those who have the appointing power. B[ackus], I have no doubt, has in some respects the requisite abilities for such a post; but not for this College. G[illespie] says if B. should be elected, he would at once resign. This feeling arises from an old quarrel between them which, altho' slumbering, has never been entirely quenched. To G. I said: "Vph. must go: he may be elected, but if he be; the minority in the Board and Fae. will be so strong and embarrassing that he will be obliged to resign from mere annoyance and want of harmony; if the storm must come, as doubtless it must sooner or later, let it come now, there is no better time. 5. to 6. to walk with wife, and called upon Miss Anna Yates, dau[ghter] of the late Rev. Dr. Yates of Front Street. 6. Home, tea and found Miss Wild of Boston and sister, who have come from Albany to make a few days visit. 6 1/2 to 8 1/4 in Treas. Office at work among books preparatory to Annual Report. 
Friday June 8, 1859. Fine day and warm. 9 to 10 A.M. In Vph's study. He spoke of his prospects brightening. Judge P[aige] saw Mr. Little lately: he seems to be right on the question of the Presidency. The Lieut Gov. and all the Ex.-officio Trustees are supposed to be friendly to Vph. The Gov. has not been seen yet but from his known straight-forward mode of acting is supposed to be susceptible of viewing Vph's case favorably. Judge P. supposes there [are] 10 votes for Vph already without counting Dr. Halley who expressed himself quite freely in favor of Vph. Dr. James of Albany, a warm friend of Vph., has seen and talked with Dr. B[ackus] and Dr. Van Vechten, Tr[ustees]. The latter became quite excited (wrathy?) so that the Dr. (J[ames] ) remarked that he must begin again with Dr. Van V. Dr. Campbell of A[lbany] remarked of Dr. Van V., who offered the confirmatory resolution in 1856, "Dr Van V. is certainly in a tight place!" --i.e. in 1856 a friend of Vph and offering a resolution to confirm the contract, now in 1859 a warm opposer of him. Today Vph. says he shall send in his answer to ----11----'s letter to him. This measure, he says, is approved by Judge P[aige] and surely it is more courteous than the the procedure of----"----, who kept the letter 2 years and suffered it to be read by several persons before sending it to Vph. Vph. does not feel quite hopeful of his future stay here, will do all he can in connection with his friends for Coll., but if in the end it shall appear that he cannot work with tolerable harmony then he had better leave. Vph. says, J[ackson] gets more and more fiery; tells in town that if Vph. stays he cant, that they have got a majority against Vph. &c&c. 11. o'clock A.M. Jesse Peek says that N. Clute's (old City Treasurer's) affairs are getting worse and worse; that now his default amounts to over $6000. Dr N. slept well last night and is better for it all day. 12. Dr. L. says he has [had] several interviews with ----"----lately; and that at his last having a good opportunity when ----"----was lamenting his worthless life and showing a troubled state of mind he said, "Your troubles seem to be of two kinds --those of the past and those of the present. á Now as to the latter, let me say in a word that we ought all to confess our sins to each other, to forgive and to forget the past, and to go on together harmoniously." L[ewis] says Mrs. [Nott] was present, but did not seem to be pleasantly affected by his remarks. 3 to 4 Botany. 5. "Jeremy," the mail carrier, says he has heard in town that Vph. has had two calls lately: 1st to be Pres. of N. Y. Univ. and 2nd to be Pres. somewhere else, he dont know where. 6 1/2 to 8 1/2 P.M. At work in Tr[easurer's] Office. 
Saturday June 9, 1859. Fine day. 10 o'clock A.M. G[illespie] says that he, P[eissner], N[ewman] and L[ewis] had a pretty warm conversation last evening on Vph.'s position and prospects; finally they agreed to drop this topic and talk upon something more profitable. 
There appears to be a new "Greek Letter" society in College this morning called the A.D.0. It has existed some time in other colleges but has never gained a foothold here. It is said that the "Fraternal Society" which was formed more than 20 yrs. ago has become merged in this. Delegations from several Colleges are here to assist in the new birth: in all, I am told, 30 or 40 persons. 11 1/2 Dr. L[ewis] gave his views upon the war in Italy, thinking it augurs no good for the poor people, who never gain anything by revolutions: the amelioration of a government is of slow growth --according to 
. the increase of the people in knowledge, morality and religion. Depotisms now are not what they were 500 yrs. ago; the subjects of such are infinitely better off, and the slow change for the better is on the whole surer under the arts of peace than by any more violent method. 
I. It is also doubtful whether the people of any country in Europe (except England) is fitted for a free government like ours which, altho' it does well enough for the country, is ill adapted for our great cities like New York. You might as well let a parcel of jail-birds choose their own keeper as to permit such dregs of all the despotisms of Europe to choose their own rulers. Like chooses like and the ruler favors the evil propensities of their electors. Dr. L. I hope Dr. N. will be on the stage at Commencement. If he is only carried on in his chair and confers the degrees sitting in his chair, it will be a gratification to his friends. 

In looking [into] a book on the Natural History of the Pacific R. Road Surveys, the Dr. (L.) said the reptiles.,-lizards, snakes, frogs &c. gave him great trouble; he could not see what they were made for. 3 o'clock P.M. The Misses Wildes of Boston leave for Albany. Dr. March of A[lbany] is their uncle. 4 -5 P.M. The students of College by class committees have passed a series of resolutions in favor of retaining Dr. H[ickok] in Coll. and eventually making him President on the death or resignation of Dr. N. Unlike what might be expected, they are temperate, moderate and mild, perfectly respectful in referring to others and, as I am informed, quite unanimous. They have been printed for circulation and handsomely engrossed upon parchment with all the students names attached to be presented to Dr. H. and the Trustees. This morning they appeared in the Albany Argus with editorial remarks in favor of Dr. H. G[illespie] says Dr. H's friends have cut his throat by this publication, made the mess much worse than it was before and provoked remarks of a public nature from the other side. I said these publications were to be deprecated because the College must suffer thereby no matter which party gains the day; but he should remember that H's friends could not be expected to lie still and see all manner of means used to his detriment and not say a word. Under the guise of zeal for science which had been injured by his book, the country had been ransacked for affidavits, testimonials to the falsehoods in the book, and the boast had been made that 25 names of the first men of science in the country had been obtained adverse to its soundness: also that there was a majority against H[ickok] in the Board of Trustees. Now no matter how bad the book, this extraordinary zeal against it by a brother Professor showed an unworthy and bad spirit, something quite beyond ordinary literary jealousy and love for science. If the book is so bad then it will die; the universal consent of literary men will consign it to forgetfulness where such productions soon find rest. The truth is this intemperate zeal has another source than the book; the origin must be sought two years back in the quarrel between H.. and----"----. From that day H's fate was decided and all ----"----'s friends have conspired to put him out; to get rid of a man who could not agree with the old man in all his financial projects. We said much more and agreed to stop finally as we did not agree in our estimate of the spirit of H's friends and opponents. As I have said for the last two years, so I again told G[illespie] that H[ickok] would not be President and moreover that he would not be in U. C. one year from now. He differed from me in this respect and thought he would. 

Sunday June 10, 1859. Fine day but not warm --too warm. Rev. Mr. Ulyat of Hudson preached for Mr. Day, by exchange, in Bapt. Ch., a very good sermon, and a modest, mild and pleasing man. He dined with me and left at 3 o'clock. 
Monday June 11 1859. Warm day. 7 to 9 in Treas. Off. at work upon accts. 9 to 10 In Library receiving books. Prof P[eissner], G[illespie] and Dr L[ewis] dropped in during the morning but nothing new from the seat of our war has happened. There seems to be a calm and general expectation of the next missive. 
The Students resolution --so temperate, so respectful, so unanimous --has doubtless given Vph's friends much pleasure, whilst the opposition attempt to meet them by pooh-poohing "boys work": "What business have they to meddle with such matters"; "they belong to the Trustees" &c. Nevertheless the whole body of students petitioning respectfully to the Trustees ought to and will have some influence with them. I must confess I should feel gratified with such an expression of love and respect. 
This P.M. at 4. saw Vph. on business when he expressed his pleasure at the unexpected testimo.nial of the students to his efficiency and good management, and unanimous desire for him to become our President. After tea to office till dark, at work upon account books preparatory to balance for the year. 
The "Graduates Hall" goes up slowly; the principal reason is the slowness of the architect in sending forward his plans. He seems to have no forethought. Materials which here require weeks or months to procure he seems to imagine can be had in a few days. The result probably will be that I shall be blamed for not hurrying on the work and for its costing so much more than it should, by reason of the dilatoriness of the architect. 
Tuesday July 12, 1859. The hottest day of the season. This morning there appeared in the Argus a very proper letter from Dr. Lewis on the vexed subject of Dr. Hickok and the Presidency. This letter was occasioned by the publication of the Students resolutions on the same subject. In the evening the same was published by the Evening Star. 
Work in office all day from 7 o'clock A.M. to 8 P.M. upon Treasurers Report to Trustees, an annual bore of no small magnitude and, as it usually happens, of no great use. 
Wednesday July 13, 1859. A cooler day, somewhat cloudy. 9 Dr. Backus called and announced that Mr, Clarke, superintendant of Union School, had sent in his resignation. The cause assigned, that he could not get along with the Classical Room under Mr. Stanton's superintendance of the same. Here again is another trouble ahead; not unexpected, however, nor of the first time. The Classical Department must be seperated completely from the school; it must be independent; no other method will serve, no compromise will last. 


Dr. H[ickok] tells me that the students are talking of [taking?] their dismissions on account [of] .the fear of H's leaving. This embarrasses him because it might be (falsely) charged upon him that he had incited them to it. One left this morning on this account. So the troubles thicken around us , and where they will end, who can know? 
Thursday July 14, 1859. Fine cool day. 7 Finished breakfast and to office. 10 To town --banks, to Judge P[aige] 's office; he was engaged, and home again. Graham, bookseller, says that in Albany there is more talk about our affairs than here. The newspapers have taken up the report of Dr. H.'s leaving and the subject bids fair to become discussed. In such cases the too great heat is apt. to breed personalities and recriminations. 3 No Botany. Dr. H[ickok]lectures to the College in Chapel. Prof. P[eissner] tells of a spat which he has just had with G[illespie] who in the present conflict has tried to trim his course in such a way as to offend neither party, in other words to ride two horses at once; in so doing he has lost confidence of both, both call him a turncoat &c. P[eissner] accused him of this but G. denied it with warmth and seemed highly offended. I fear there is too much truth in the charge. 
Soon after, G. came in and spoke of his spat with [Peissner] ; as tho' P., a foreigner did not understand the force of the language he used, &c. 7 On my way to Tr. Off. Dr. Nott sent for me. Found him looking pretty well; his wish was to tell me to have it advertised in the papers that children could not be admitted to the Church on Comm't Day, also to tell the Faculty to send off all the students after Examinations but the Graduating Class. Then, raising his hand to his head, he remarked that talking made his head ache, that he was physically better and growing better but that he had functional derangements which did not improve, but the reverse. By this understand him to mean that his brain did not perform its wanted office; and from all I learn I should think herein lies his greatest danger now. 8. Vph. says that from all he can learn, the opposition are abashed at the demonstration in his favor, both in College and abroad, and he thinks they will be still farther rebuked and to such a degree that they will be glad to do nothing at Commencement. He says Dr. James was up yesterday and gave encouraging accounts in hisáfavor. Judge P[aige] dropped into Vph.'s house while I was there and required of me a copy of the bye-laws. Promised to send him my copy in mss. 

Friday July 15, 1859. 9 It has been decided that we use the 2d Dutch Ch. this year for Commencement. The Presbyterian House, which has usually been allowed us, is now undergoing extensive alterations. Went down this morning with Vph., Reagles and Carpenter Van Vranken to decide upon the stage or platform for the speakers. On the way Vph. gave some account of what Dr. James of Albany said yesterday about his (Vph's) relation to College. Dr. J. feels a warm friend of Vph., is striving to use his influence in his favor and in furtherance of this design called upon Mrs. [Nott] to advise great forbearance and a pacific course --with what success, none can know. On returning to Vph. he read ----"----'s letter and Vph's answer, which at once opened his eyes to a world of evil influences that he knew nothing about and caused him at once to say that Vph. could make no advances towards reconciliation, but that such attempts must come from the other side. 10. Called upon Judge 
P. on business, and among other things he read a letter he had just received from R. M. Blatchford of N. Y. in which he says that Mr. E .C. Delavan had written to Mr. James Brown, a Trustee, that Vph. was not a flt person to be a moral Instructor of youth!! Such monstrous assertions, said Judge P., ought to subject the author of them to the whipping post. That a Dr. of Divinity, a professor of theology, an instructor of youth for 23 years, a preacher of the Gospel, should for the first time and at this late day be charged with the fatal error of immoral teaching! 
I said to Judge P. that it had been told me by a certain person who professed to know whereof he spoke, that there was good reason to believe that R. W. Lowbers denial of a just claim of College upon him for the $40,000, in case he shall be successful, will redown to the pecuniary benefit of----"----, who really desires it should be so. Judge P. said (as a secret) that C. N. P[otter]', ----11----s lawyer had mentioned a secret contract between R. W. L[owber] and----"----by which the former was to pay the latter a certain sum for the Cove property, and in addition to that, when a certain amount of property was sold and expenses paid, the residue was to be divided between them: 1/3 to R. W. Land 2/3 to----"----. If therefore R.W.L. should successfully resist the college and get rid of the payment of the 95,000 dolls. due, ----"----would of course profit by such a transaction to the amount of more than $60,000. I said I could not believe that ----"----desired Lowber's success, it was too monstrous a piece of rascality to attribute to him. 11. Called upon Dr. Backus to talk upon school matters. Union School and Union College are much alike, afflicted with Disunion. Mr. Clarke the superintendent has resigned because dissatisfied with his relation to the Classical Department and Mr. Stanton --and a majority of the Trustees are disposed to accept his resignation. 

2 Dr. N. sent for me, complained of headache and a restless night. He gave me a copy of a letter to read which he had written to Dr. Hickok by which he delegated to him as Vice President full power to go on for the remainder of this term and govern College in his own way and transact all business as he could himself if well enough. The Dr. said I must not trouble him with business as everything of the kind made him nervous and distressed him. Called upon Dr. H[ickok] immediately after, and found him considerably encouraged to believe that there was some prospect of a reconciliation of their difficulties. It seems that he called to see Dr. N., who gave him the letter. Dr. H. professed to desire to wipe all old scores, to forget the past and to part with him when the time came with a full forgiveness of all injuries, real or fancied. Dr. N. took his hand in both of his and made the same expression, asking Dr H. to pray with him, which he did and departed, hoping that a streak of sunshine was seen through the thick cloud of the past two years. 5 to 6. Faculty meeting --all present but Dr. N. The course of Examination was referred to Chandler and Deremer for arrangement, to be ended in two days from Monday morning next. 7 1/2 to 9 1/2, Meeting of the Board of Education, to discuss the project of a new building and the resignation of Mr. Clarke. Referred the building to the por-er [property?] committee and accepted Mr. C's resignation. 
Saturday July 16, 1859. Rain. 9 Dr. N. sent for me again to speak about the great drunk at 4th July and Thursday night, also about the painfulness of all noises out of doors. 10. Vph. in answer to the above matters says he is trying to find out the culprits and is writing to their parents. The 4th July fracas was not properly visited upon those engaged in it because the names had not been found out. 11. Prof. J[ackson] gave the names of 3 persons who were drunk last night and complained that drunkenness was on the increase in College, very much occasioned by the use of lager beer, now so common. He intimated that Vph. did not do his duty in these cases because he was afraid of his popularity. Too severe this judgement! 8 to 9 P.M. Prof F[oster] dropped in and commenced conversation about College matters. I freely stated that we had better let things be as they are, that no one wanted Dr. N. to resign but to hold on till death. He doubted that, for the students for the year past had shown him great disrespect in Chapel by stamping &c . I said I regretted such conduct, but had thought this was done more in thoughtlessness than from disrespect to him. F[oster] did not assent to this. (Quere, Is not this to be one charge against Vph., that he encouraged this semi rebellion and disrespect to ----"----?) F[oster] then spoke of Vph's book as a most unpardonable sin, fit to hurl him from his place, never to be forgiven, disgraceful not only to himself but to College. I answered that, admitting certain scientific errors, the book would be condemned only by a few of the scientific men who read such works, but that the great mass of the community would never care a straw for such things. To move them you must show some moral or religious error; nothing less would be a sufficient reason to break a solemn contract which had stood now 7 years. But I said this book could not be made the sole ground of accusation. ----11----'s letter, written two years ago, showed conclusively that the origin of the trouble was a conversation between ----"----and Vph on financial matters, in which charges that Vph. had lost confidence in him --a most indiscreet letter now, said I, for he should have sent it two years ago or not at all. He has put a club in Vph's hands which can be used with tremendous effect upon ----"----'s character if Vph is disposed to do so. Tho' I do not think he will. Vph. is a man of peace, dont want fight, says he wont. Still he isn't of course going off without having cause shown for his dismissal. 

Sunday July 17, 1859. Last night was the anniversary of that sad loss of our dear Henry. Yesterday and today how often we have thought of him and mourned his untimely death. May Heaven bless his loss to our good. 
Heard Mr. Day this morning at Bpt. Ch. 
Monday July 18, 1859. Moderately warm, cloudy, with some prospect of rain. 9 Dr. Jacob Van Vechten of Albany, one of our Trustees, and Examiner, called at Treasury off. to arrange for an address from H. W. Warner Esq. of Cold Spring, N. Y. before his class of 1809, this being the 50th anniversary of their graduation. Prof F[oster] being present, they arranged for it on Wednesday, July 27, at 11 A. M. Altered also the programme for Comm't., inserting Mr. W.'s name and am to have 100 new ones printed, also the announcement in one of our daily papers. 
Dr. N. sent for me and desired that Rev. J.B. Van Petten's name might be recommended to the Trustees for S.T.D. Mr. Van Petten has served as Prin[cipal] of Fairfield Acad. for some years. 10. Prof. P[eissner] and afterwards Dr. L[ewis] called and as usual introduced the old topic; they both think the opposition to be somewhat cowed by the formidable public feeling against the determined opposition to Vph. 11. Saw Vph. and cautioned him against secret whisperings and backbitings which will work more formidable mischeif for him than any open attacks; i.e., said I was pretty sure it had been charged that he incited the students to acts of insubordination in Chapel whenever the President officiated: likewise that he did nothing to restrain the students in their rowdy and drunken scrapes lately &c. To which Vph. answered that such insinuations could be and doubtless were made, but if so he could do nothing more than he had done to counteract them, that he must take the consequences patiently. 12. Going to town met Mr. Blatchford of N. Y. coming up with Prof. G[illespie]. They are from Saratoga Springs, and B[latchford] is bound for Sharon Spgs. G., who has had much talk with B. at Saratoga Spgs., is mum about his opinions on the question of Vph's stay; he only says that B. is friendly to Dr. N. This silence of course can only be interpreted unfavorably for Vph so far as his stay is concerned. What G. knows is too bad for anyone to know who is not of the right stripe. 4 Dr. N._very nervous, sent for me twice more about unimportant matters, complains of his head and says if he does not get releif from his worriment he shall go crazy; slept none last [night], none today; every call pains him, makes his head ache, yet he cannot forbear to ask for persons with whom he imagines he has business. 5 to 6 1/2 Dr. L[ewis], G[illespie] and self in Treas. Office till past tea time. G. said but little; L. very talkative upon College matters, speaking in high terms of Vph's book and Vph himself and in terms of disapprobation of some persons who so bitterly work for his ruin. He particularly found fault with Dr. B[ackus] who shunned Vph. ,refused to read his letter in answer to ----"----'s letter which he (B.) had read and copied, retaining the copy; also with E. C. D[elavan], who had pronounced Vph to be a dangerous teacher of morals. 
Tuesday July 19, 1859. Cloudy, wind south, indications of rain. 9 Prof. G. says A.]. Thomson has had printed the correspondence and resolutions making the contract between Vph. and the Trustees, that this is to be sent to each of the Trust[ees] for the purpose of showing clearly what has been done, and what must be done to remove him from his office. 10 Vph. says the above printed correspondence is for the Trust[ees] alone --that it should be made known to them fully and in time for them to deliberate before their meeting on the 26th. 
/ 76 a 
A difference has now broken out between Tutor Millard and Senior Class --originating in a wish to have an older man to train the Commencement speakers and criticize their pieces. This morning they sent a committee to Vph. to cause a change in the previous arrangements by----"----. Vph., not wishing to interfere with Dr. N's directions, sent them back to----"----, who desired Vph. to take the whole charge of the speakers and carry thro' the Comm't. exercises. To make sure that he understood him, Vph. went to Mrs. [Nott] and had the matter confirmed by her with advise of----"----, so there the matter stood till 5 o'clock when Mr. M[illard], disliking to give up his labors now so near a close and in a manner which seemed to reflect upon him as being incomplete [incompetent?] for the task, addressed the Senior Class in Chapel and caused them to retract their determination and receive him back as their teacher and trainer. 11 Young Fred. Hosford from N. Y. made a call, leaving again at 7.20 P.M. for his grandmother Fuller's in Albany. 12 To Printer Riggs to read proof of Treas. Report. 5 Prof. G[illespie] thinks some progress has been made towards a reconciliation between Vph. and thinks the whole matter might have been settled long ago but for the women, meaning Mrs. [Nott]. Perhaps he is more than half right. 
Wednesday July 20, 1859. Cool, comfortable. Today we put up the stage in 2nd Dutch Church for Commencement Exercises about which there seems to be very little interest. Other and more exciting matters draw away the minds both of students and Profs. from them. The newspapers of Albany and Schen. still notice our unhappy controversy about Vph. His opponents, after working with great zeal in the dark to supplant him, have been obliged to show themselves. Vph.'s friends would not allow them to finish their ******* undisturbed; hence they now cry out "indelicacy!" "You are ruining á the College; suchthings should not be talked of publicly." To which it is answered that Vph and his friends are not responsible for these 
. consequences; they did not begin the fight, but after being attacked from ambush, charged the enemy and forced them to show their front. In the Argus is another stinging letter this morning, evidently from a leading lawyer of this city. Bro.-in-law Magoun passed thro' at 12 M. on his way west to Milwaukee. 
Thursday July 21, 1859. Cool. All day in Tr. office getting ready accounts and other matters for our annual audit and examination. In town, at every corner, the question is asked, "How are matters getting on in College?" To which I could only say that there is more 
110\ 
talk and excitement in town about Vph. and the Presidency than 
there is on the Hill. If the newspapers and newspaper scribblers 
would let us alone, much of the irritation would cease. Let those who 
have kindled this fire enjoy the heat of it. 
In afternoon Dr. N. sent for me twice to inquire about the number of Trustees and the oldest Trustee. To the first question answered that 21 is the number --11 a quorum; and that Chane. Walworth has probably been longest Trustee. 
Friday July 22, 1859. Cool, pleasant day, fine shower at 4 P. M. 
12. Called on Judge P[aige] on business, and in conversation he spoke of the late unpleasant contest between the friends and opponents of Vph. as a sad exhibition of the lengths to which good and wise men will go impelled by their prejudices and likes. Some of the measures used against Vph. have been such as we only expect among intriguing politicians and demagogues. Even a brother Prof. has descended to the expedient of writing all over the country for certificates of scientific men and Professors in condemnation of Vph's book. Judge P. says Prof. Davies among others was applied to, and [in] return said it would take him too long a time to write a criticism of the book and declined to have anything to do with it! 4 to 5 Rev. H. 
W. Pierson of Cumberland College, Princeton, Ky called today. 
Mrs. Humphry says that Dr. N. by help of a crutch walked from one room to another, and asserts that he will be out to attend Commencement next Wednesday. 5 to 6. Faculty Meeting. Present V. Pres. Hickok, Prof. Newman, Tutor N. Millard and self. Read over***** and the Senior Class and designated those who shall have degrees. Appointed D. B. Jackson as the recipient of the first Warner Prize goblet. Arranged the audience in the Church on Commencement Day --ladies in the Galleries; the Procession in body slips; general audience on side slips. Two rows of slips across the House in front of stage for students. Front of stage for Fae. and Trustees and distinguished strangers. Back of stage for Speakers of Senior Class. 
Nominated H. J. Gordon as Tutor to be sanctioned by Bd. of Trustees. Appointed Dr. H[ickok] to announce to the Chairman of Bd. of Trustees (and get his sanction) the appointment of D. B. Jackson as Warner Prize man, also to see Gordon about acting as Tutor. 
Saturday July 23. 1859. Cool day. The ordinary routine of duties in Tr. office. Entrances to College have as usual been quite limited at this time. The opening of next session is the time when we expect the most of our students. The discussions about College matters go on as usual altho' without any new developements to keep excitement; still the injurious attempts to oust Vph., the secre~ persevering endeavours to ruin him in the minds of Trustees and others, can neither be forgotten by the injured party and his friends, nor by him who is the author of this outrage upon propriety and decency. Vph. tells me it is understood that his opponents have given up the idea of doing anything against him in the B[oar]d. Things are to remain as they are, a confession that the opposite course could not be supported against public opinion. He also gave me a printed (not published) pamphlet containing all the correspondence between himself and Dr. N. previous to his acceptance of the appointment of his present office. This is printed and distributed to the Trustees alone. He thinks that, having given up the battle now when their forces are apparently strong, his opponents can never rally again. This may be, but still a majority in the Bd. may by annoying rules and resolutions make his stay here quite unpleasant, nay impossible. Whether they will descend to such littleness remains to be seen. At 4 o'clock another Faculty meeting. All present but Prof. Jackson. The doings of yesterdays meeting were affirmed. C. H. Peck was appointed substitute for H. G. Gordon as Tutor in case the latter does not serve, and Prof. Newman was appointed to take charge of matters at the church on Commencement Day in case Prof. Jackson will not. 

7 1/2 o'clock P. M. Miss Cynthia Sheldon, Mrs. Nott's sister, stepped in just as we were getting ready for our evening walk. Having heard something of the hubbub here in College about Vph., she desired to know more: so far as prudent I gave her a relation of facts on both sides of the question, and hope they may have such an influence as is desirable upon others thro' her. One thing which she mentioned confirmed what Vph. said today --that Bp. P[otter] advocates letting things remain as they are; so he expressed his mind two days since to her. This being so, nothing will be done, for his opinion is decisive with a majority of the Trustees. She also says this is Mrs. N's feeling and desire --another favorable indication. 
Sunday July 24, 1859. Cool. This morning with wife and Miss Sheldon to Baptist Ch. and heard Mr. Day preach. At home the rest of the day, 
Monday July 25, 1859. Cool. Some rain last night and this forenoon. 9 A.M. Edward T. Potter, the architect of the Graduates' Hall, came up on Saturday evening and this morning came into Treas. office to discuss the piers for the building. He says that the dome, being high and large, must be anchored down to protect it against the high 
1103 
winds which [in] some seasons prevail here. To do so he proposes to make the piers the anchors and the iron columns the cables th us: 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
To make each pier one piece, he desires to have it tied and bound 
together by two iron rods passing thro' holes from top to bottom, 
eleven feet deep --a not very easy matter in practice. 
Notified that there was to be a meeting of the Board of Education this morning at Union School Building, rode down and spent an hour discussing the contracts and propriety of a building for additional scholars; adjourned to meet tomorrow evening at 7 o'clock. 10 A.M. Found Mr. R. W. Lowber at Treas. office. He informed me that he came up to meet the Board of Trustees and if possible to settle his matters with Union College amicably. He claims that by reason of a private contract with Dr. Nott, the bonds and mortgages now owned by U. C. as a part of the Nott Trust Fund, the same that were given by him Dec. 1. 1853, are null and void, because Dr. N. on his part has not fulfilled the stipulations therein made. One thing seems true, that R.W.L. would not make such claims as he does without pretty good grounds because he has already spent enough in law about the "Cove Property" to make him shy of it, and because moreover he must know that the legal gentlemen in the Board are not the men to be hoodwinked by any mere flimsy claims and sham pretences. He claims also to have paid thro' Dr N. much more interest upon his bonds and mortgages to U. C. than the Treasurer has ever had. He asserts from his own knowledge that Dr. 
N. has received $1,000,000 froin the Cove property, first and last. Where then, said I, has it all gone? L Up to 1857, $730,000 went into Bristol Copper mine, and after that under Silliman's management $140,000 more, making in all $870,000 
I. But that surely is not the net expenditure; he must have received something back. 
L. That is the net loss. I found that out myself; and Dr. N. could not believe it. 
I. Did you and his friends ever persuade him to give up such unprofitable business? 
L. Often. In 1857 he might have sold out the mine for $250,000, and I urged him to do it, but Silliman and Woolsey persuaded him that by making a stock company with a nominal capital of $500,000, of which they would take $70,000, he might make something like $400,000 out of it. Then he lost $170,000 in Perkiomen mine and went in with Stillman, Allen & Co. into some Virginia and Cuba mine 

to the amount of $115,000. For a long time the Cove kept him up, but Bradford and Blydenburg led him into wild speculations and he would never believe anything that was said of them until they had nearly ruined him. He owed S. A. & C., when he seperated from Bradford, $415,000 whith he (B.) had borrowed from them to carry on the Bristol Mine and other speculations. The Hunter Point property is a good property, but Crane has managed it poorly: he holds on too long for great prices. The last 4 yrs. have been very hard on real estate in N. Y., but I think the next two years will be better. 
3 Dr. Backus came in to get explanations about the Treasurer's Report. I hoped he would see that provisions were made for Nott Trust Fund salaries and that the Trustees would interest themselves more about the finances of College. Judge W.W. Campbell called, is all taken with a snail bed on his farm which he deems almost equal to guano. 5 Vph. tells me Bp. Potter will not be here at Comm't. also that Mr. Delavan has gone west not for a few days but for a fortnight! What does it all mean? Three weeks since J[ackson] boasted that the majority in the Board was so strong an~ well trained that Vph. must be put down; now his strongest men seem to desert and the whole opposition drizzles away. 7 1/2 Saw Miss Cynthia Sheldon at Dr Nott's. She says he cannot on any account appear at Church on Comm't. Day --it would kill him. 8 G[illespie], who has been at Sharon Spgs for a week, called in this evening full of all the grand company he sawá there --Governor Morgan, Senator Beekman and many others of the elite of N. Y. society. Grand folks are his failing. 
(The following reply of Dr. Hickok is made in answer to the letter of Dr. N., copy under date of June 27, last, which see.) 
Preliminary Statements and reply to Dr. Nott's letter of May 14, 1859. 
About the middle of June 1859 I had occasion to confer with Dr. Nott in his sick room about a pretty urgent case of College discipline. After this matter was concluded I took the opportunity to say to him in substance as follows: that as we had been long associated and engaged in many transactions together, and as in some cases there had been differences of opinion and judgement, I desired to ask his attention to these matters that we might now come to a full reconciliation of all misunderstandings there might have been between us. I said I had often been disagreeably affected and sometimes grieved and hurt, and that perhaps his feelings might 
nof' 
have been similarly affected towards me, and that as we could not 
now recall particulars, I wished to say of all things that might have 
been unpleasant I truly regretted they had occurred and I desired to 
overlook and forget the whole and have no charges to make against 
him here or hereafter, whichever of us might first be taken from this 
world, and that this might be an entire and amicable settlement 
between us. He replied in substance and in few words, that he had 
always been my friend, that he had-been deeply pained by some 
things, but that he could now agree to say by me as I had by him and 
could go as far as I had said. 
I again said that whatever of disagreement there might have 
been and of grieved feelings, his present condition induced my strong sympathy and I felt the regard I used to have towards him as my teacher returning with former interest and tenderness, and _I wished to cherish no feelings of an opposite kind hereafter. He again in slow utterance said, he could say as much in his feelings towards me, and in a short time he raised his hand and extended it towards me, which I took, and said a word of parting and left the room. A few days thereafter I received a long letter from him with an accompanying note from Mrs. Nott and to both of which reference should be made and they be read. After a very hasty perusal I at once called on Mrs. N. to ask if she had heard Dr. N. say anything about our last interview and reconciliation of misunderstandings. I asked, "Did he suppose I had received his letter at this interview?" She said no., he wished Bp. Potter to see it, and he knew at the time it was sent. I desired an opportunity to see him if but for a few moments at some convenient time, to which she replied that all excitement injured him, that his mind was often wandering and she wished him to be kept as still as possible. I said I will be careful not to excite or fatigue ----"----, that I should choose that she herself should be present andá hoped there would be found such an opportunity. If she would indicate when, I would at any time come. She intimated doubtfully about it, but would send word if she found á such an opportunity. I have not since received any intimation that I could see him. I do not suppose Dr. Nott could attend to a reply to his letter and I find no other course but to put in writing what I wish to say about the contents of this letter and await what use future circumstances may require concerning it. To this end I subjoin the 
following statements. 
When I left Auburn in July, 1852 to become connected with Union College, it was after many interviews and a correspondence with Dr. Nott extending over a period of nearly three years (more than two). The correspondence manifests that I might expect 
170b 
immediately to be associated in the management of the College, in two or three years to become the President de facto, and ultimately de jure; and the final result was attained in an interview at Utica with Dr. N. and which is contained in my letter accepting the call of the Trustees, and standing on their records it was agreed at the time, Dr Nott would procure the vote of the Trustees sanctioning this arrangement at their coming meeting. After that meeting had been holden, Dr. N. informed me that such vote had been passed by the Trustees according to our understanding. When I subsequently saw the resolution then passed, I was very disagreeably affected at the vagueness and apparent disinclination to fairly meet the conditions agreed upon. I went on, however, fulfilling engagements as if the ratification had been in a direct and plain vote, relying upon the good faith of the President and Trustees and the acceptance and recording of my letter. At the meeting of the Board in 1856 I had understood Dr. N. as cordially inclined that I should be admitted into the Board of Trustees and while that subject was under investigation an objection was made by one member of the Board to it --that I was but in the situation of a Professor liable at any time to be dismissed without cause assigned while the President was permanent and could not be displaced from his office without adequate cause; and which declaration at once put me in a very embarrassing position. I could not consent to the admission of any such understanding and did not wish to be forced upon a defence of my true relation to the College at that time. I was however soon settled in the conviction that it was necessary for me to have a recognition of my standing and connection with the College fairly given, or I could not consistently continue this connection any longer. At the close of the meeting, the vote fully recognizing the connection on the terms of the letter of acceptance was passed by a majority voting, and none dissenting, tho' some declined voting, and I have since fully relied upon it without any scruple of further disagreement. My discontent and embarrassment has since been mainly from what I have felt to be a disregard to the fair construction of this agreement between us, and this letter of Dr. Nott manifests that he deemed many things to be an interference and intrusion unwarranted by my position but which I supposed were fully granted anad settled in the terms of our agreement. The topics of complaint in the letter come mainly under two general heads: 1st Opposing and hindering Dr. Nott's plans concerning the College. 2d Want of confidence in the honest management of the College finances. Of the first the conclusion comes to this, that Dr. Nott has been so "met and embarrassed by the full force of my influence exerted and opinion expressed in opposition" 
l7D7 
that he had "at length become disheartened by the continual delays thus occasioned; and ceased to urge forward those improvements etc." Now, to me, with no place myself nor any authority in the Board, and that Board all friendly to Dr. Nott and always accustomed to regard his wishes and counsels with deference, such results from such a source seem simply impossible. The particulars stated as the cheif instances of opposition from me also manifest that in some way Dr. Nott's estimate of my opposition to his measures and its effects have been greatly over-rated. The first relates to his contemplated change in title deed of land south of Troy Turnpike and arrangement for observatory &c. The opposition from me in this matter has consisted in the expression of my judgement that an observatory at that distance would be of but little advantage for purposes of instruction in the College and that it was much better to have a near location. and that, if desired for a kind of national observatory and having less regard to College use, that the sum of 60,000 ds. appropriated would be found utterly deficient. The question that has been agitated, of this being a part of the condition of the Trust Deed, I have never meddled with, and the hindrances in the Legislature to the passage of the necessary law authorising the transfer of title are not at all to be laid to my responsibility. The second is in regard to the construction of the Geological Building. At a meeting at Judge Paige's office of some of the Resident Trustees, the Treasurer and myself, at about the time of building the Geological Hall and which was for the purpose of settling the plan of the building, I gave my opinion in common with the other gentlemen present, and all remarked for or against the different plans proposed freely, and a final result was attained in which I supposed all acquiesced, and Dr. Nott as really [readily?] as others. The plan adopted was as widely different from my own when I went to the meeting, nearly, as from Dr. Nott's, and I made no strenuous effort for any plan while there, nor do I now remember having urged any views of my own at any other time. The third relates to the transfer of the Lowber mortgage onto the Van Alst Farm. Such transfer was never a matter of objection to me if done after removing the incumbrance of [a] previous mortgage of $25,000. Action in this matter by others Dr. Nott may probably have imputed to me, but certainly I have at no time done anything in that matter that has hindered him from putting over the mortgage when he pleased. He has had opportunity to transfer, on condition of the removal of previous mortgage, believe, from that time until he discharged and released, instead of transferring, it. I cannot be justly charged with having moved in opposing Dr. Nott in such transfer; I had no objection to it but was in 
favor of it. The last is in reference to the establishment and maintenance of the department of Analytical Chemistry. I think in this I have probably urged more and more strenuous objections to Dr. Nott than in the case of all the others. I was from the first in favor of an enlargement in Natural Science and especially Chemistry, as will appear from an article published in the Biblio-Sacra the first winter of my coming here and which had the supervision and approbation of Dr. Nott. It was well understood that the means for this enlargement were to be provided from the resources of Dr. Nott's appropriations subsequently put in the form of his Trust Deed. After Prof. Joy had been appointed and had returned from Europe, it became manifest that the Trust Deed income could not be made to meet the expenses of such department but that, if prosecuted, more money must be hired on the security of College lands. My advice to Prof. Joy was not to push the Analytical Department forward at present, but wait a year or two till the Trust Fund would be available and in the meantime put his services in elementary Chemistry and lecturing in the College proper. I informed Dr. Nott that I had so advised Prof. Joy and I understood at the time that Dr. Nott was pleased with it, and would be releaved from embarrassment in the encouragement he had given to Prof. Joy. But Prof. Joy was not willing to wait and urged immediate progress. The necessary borrowing of several thousand dollars by mortgage given upon College property, the expense of instruction in the department necessarily so great that few students could be found to sustain it, Cambridge at the best having only 14 or 15, made me urge to Dr. Nott and Prof. Joy a delay as above and that I believed the department would come to a stand before the Trust Fund could be relied upon. So much I admit having opposed Dr. Nott, if it must so be called, and for which there has been put upon me the undeserved reproach of being unfriendly to physical science, but never otherwise than by temperate, respectful, and sincerely expressed argument. When this did not avail and at a meeting in Albany the Board decided to go on with the department and borrow the money, I ceased all further effort as of course unavoidable and have not made any hindrance to any subsequent measures. This includes all the alleged cases of opposition, except what may be intended under the expression "to say nothing of other instances of less importance," and I feel the most decided conviction that there has been nothing from the whole that has given any serious embarrasment to Dr. Nott, or that has at all exceeded the privilege and right on my part most fully recognised in the terms of the agreement, on the ground of which I became connected with Union College. 
1101 
The Second Head, viz. want of confidence in the honest management of the College finances, has all the specifications included in what is said to have occured at an interview in January 1857. A little previous to the interview, the letter given from Prof. Pearson is said to have been received and Dr. Nott's "apprehension that he was acting with and confiding in those whose confidence he no longer retained," then excited, became "confirmed" by what occurred at the interview here alluded to. The grievances from what is alle[d]ged to have transpired at this interview are warnings and advice similar to Prof. Pearson's letter, saying that appearances were that urging the exchange of the Lowber mortgage professedly for College interest was really for his own private interest; that Prof. Pearson, probably Judge Paige and myself all had that opinion; that if he was using his own money for College in his circumstances, it was improper; that I supposed in cases of help to College in funds he did not loan his money, but gave his name as President of College and thus not implicating himself: and that his connection with College gave to him opportunities for his own private advantage. I would first say here that the Letter of Prof. Pearson has no possible connection with this interview, nor at all with myself, for I knew nothing about the writing of such a letter for a long time after, nor what was in it, until it was read to me more than three months after it was sent. Of the interview I would say, that some transactions had greatly troubled me in the light I was constrained to view them, and that I had mentioned my view of the transactions to two or three of the Trustees that I might better know what should be done. The result was a conviction that I had better have an interview with Dr. Nott myself, one in which my special motive was personal and private satisfaction and relief. I had no other than kind feelings, and did not as I remember or believe use any reproof or warning, but only made enquiries and plainly stated the facts as I supposed they were in the particulars that troubled me. These particulars were mainly if not wholly in reference to two Resolutions of the Board of Visitors and the concurrence of the Trustees as now recorded in D. 94 page of Records and the matter of transfer of [the] mortgage before referred to. I did not make any charge of dishonesty, or want of integrity, any farther than could be implied in the enquiries made and statement of the facts as I understood them. The point in which I spoke of Prof. Pearson and Judge Paige, was that they believed that the transfer of the mortgage was to be made without first removing the $25,000 incumbrance, and that this also had been my belief: and that this was so of Judge Paige only inferred from his acts. So far as I knew or intended, the whole interview was private, confidential and 
1710 
friendly, and what transpired there has in no respect become public thro' my agency. The general impression which the statement in Dr. Nott's letter would make is not such as would be made if stated according to my recollection, yet I deem it sufficient to say that while I have not given publicity to anything there occurred which might be an annoyance or inconvenience to Dr. Nott, I did not in the interview 
á intend any indignity or injury to him, nor do I recollect anything that I now think should properly subject-me to censure. I am disposed further to say here that I do not believe his best friend would be more slow than I would to subject Dr Nott's character to public scandal or reproach. If the interview hindered our subsequent free communications, it was my misfortune. The reference which the letter subsequently makes to documents to Crane and Ely, and Brown and Blatchford, as confirming the assumption that Dr. Nott was helping Crane and Ely for the benefit of College from his own funds, could not with my understanding of those papers be at all so applied. I need not here state my understanding of them, only to say that they do not add anything to my relief beyond what was said in the interview. The statements which here follow in the letter of matters of complaint on my part, and the answers given to them, are not such as would cover this part of the ground, nor relieve my mind of the great disquiet and sense of wrong to which in many ways I have been subjected by a non-fulfilment of the original agreement between us; but as I am only considering Dr. Nott's alledged complaints against me and not here making any of my own, I do not need to refer further to what is contained in all this portion of the letter. Two or three other particular topics of regret and embarrasment are mentioned which require notice. On page 12th of the letter, it is thus stated: "I was distressed on the event of your arrival here (because I thought it ominous of evil) that you did not when transferring your professional relation to Union College, transfer also your ecclesiastical relation to the Presbytery within the bounds of which the College was situated, as seemed so fit and á proper and as was so generally expected &c." To this it is answered. Among the first things that came up in consultation about the removal to Union was an enquiry from Dr. Nott about my feelings in transferring my ecclesiastical relation from the New School to the Old School General Assembly. My answer at once was, and the understanding so far as I know invariably since, has been that while I was never a theological partizan and had no repugnance to cordial communion with Old School Brethren, yet that such a transfer of ecclesiastical standing in connection with my removal to Union College would subject me to the reproach of yeilding to influences 
l16Y 
which self-respect demanded I should avoid. When some time after my removal I found it expedient to connect myself with the Troy Presbytery, I gave my reasons therefor to Dr. Nott as preferable to joining the New School Albany Presbytery, and at the time supposed I had his approbation. There must have been a failure of memory by Dr. Nott in this reference to a transfer of ecclesiastical standing. Another difficulty is noticed as follows: "Among these events is a growing manifestation of public distrust in both the metaphysical and physical instruction given in Union College which distrust commenced with the introduction of the Rational Psychology as a text book in Union College and has been greatly increased by the recent introduction of the Rational Cosmology. Considering the opposition to these works manifested by men of science and metaphysicians, it cannot but be regretted that they should have been introduced without having been previously submitted to the Faculty and approved of the Bd. of Trustees, a course concerning which had I been consulted or had I even been aware of it I should for pru.dential reasons have advised against it." .Qf the Rational Psychology I wish first to say that it was published sometime previous to my coming to Union and was mentioned by Dr. Nott at our first interview on the subject as a book he had had read to him and that it was among the incidents that had drawn his attention to me for the place. It has never been introduced into the course of studies in the College, but from the first year of my coming here has been studied in private voluntary classes under my instruction wholly aside from my regular College teaching. Dr. Nott very early suggested that the Rational Psychology should be a text book in the contemplated Graduates Course and that I had not better use it in the undergraduate instruction. After, the arrangement should be made for the Graduate's course, lest it should weaken the inducement for those graduates who had studied it already to remain. Of the Cosmology the same is to be said, that it has never had any introduction into the College course of studies; one private voluntary class alone has read the book under my supervision, and wholly in hours not included in College study, but immediately after evening pray-ers. I had heard previously of disparaging comments made upon it to the students and while I had no supposition that there was any impropriety or could be any objection in teaching voluntary classes not encroaching on College hours, this outside criticism was an additional inducement to teach, to those who pleased to study it, the true conception of the doctrine the book contains. There were a few mistakes and misstatements of facts found in our progress and which were corrected as we went on. And public strictures have since 

noticed those and some others, but the greatest amount and severity of criticism has its source in a misconception of the ideas the book embodies and which through a matured discussion will be sure to find their own correction. The book in my honest conviction gives the only sure method to meet and subvert some of the most deep and dangerous philosophical and theological errors. It does not conflict with any facts of science as a system, but both embraces and gives meaning to them. In view, therefore, of all the statements which this letter contains I cannot see or feel that it has been at my responsibility that Dr. Nott should in the closing of this letter say, "A state of things exists which preadmonishes me that I shall not be permitted to see the completion of the improvements undertaken, or the peacefuLconsummation of the measures contemplated." I very much regret all that has occurred which has been any way painful or embarrassing and am strongly and cordially [willing?] to do all that I can and ought to relieve and reconcile in all matters of previous misunderstanding or embarrasment and especially for the peace and satisfaction of Dr. Nott, while at the same time in all honest sincerity I must say that I have faithfully endeavored through all the past to fulfil every duty to the College as well as, in the difficult station I have held, was practicable to me and to make my action and intercourse as comfortable to Dr. Nott as in the circumstances I knew how_todo. 
Union College July 4. 1859 L.P. Hickok. 
Tuesday July 26, 1859. This being the day for the long expected meeting of the Trustees, they commenced the session at 10 o'clock A. 
M. with an uncommonly full Board --all the State officers but two being present and most of the permanent Trustees. After a long session, till dinner time, they (most unexpectedly to all outsiders) adjourned over to Thursday morning when of course there can beá but little time for business and but little hope of a quorum. It seems that from the beginning of the session, it was understood by both parties, i.e. the friends and opponents of Vph. that nothing should be done against him {Dr. Hickok]; no formidable petition was to be presented of great scientific names against his book, no attempt to be made to remove him from his office or to prevent his ultimately succeeding to the Presidency. Hence it seems to have been thought best to seperate early and keep apart lest perhaps some sparks might fall among the inflammable materials and ignite the whole mass. A test vote was however taken upon the appointment of a 
committee to take into consideration the salaries, studies and general condition of College. The Chairman, Dr. VanVechten, as in the ordinary course of business, would have nominated the members of it, but after a long discussion it was carried by a vote 8 to 7 that the committee should be appointed by the Board. This by Vph's friends was looked upon as a triumph because it gave them an opportunity of having a chance for a fair representation. This was finally fixed at five mem bers --3 anti-Vph. men and 2 Vph. men, of whom Judge P. is one. It may be said that when this was ended, the whole business closed. The committee is to report to, and call together, the Board whenever they may think proper, which will probably not be at all if Dr. N. lives. Here ends then, it is to be hoped, one of the most foolish and improper wars that Union College has been involved in since the great Beekman contest in 1852. Under the pretence of a zeal for truth in science and theology Vph. has been pursued with the most determined perseverance, the materials for impeachment before the Bd. prepared, the votes canvassed and counted, and all the machinery prepared beforehand to wage deadly war upon Vph, until he should either resign from sheer disgust, or be put out of office by force. Prof. J[ackson], who is the cheif engineer in this contest, pushed on and advised by Dr. B[ackus], by this course of the Trustees, is left in a not very enviable situation. All his powder shot has been expended for nothing; there is no game for him which he dare shoot at, for his masters or advisers withdraw their countenance and he dare not proceed alone. One of the most singular freaks in this farcical drama, is the sudden disappearance of E. C. D[elavan] who, although the fiercest ofVph's opposers, is the first to show the white feather. á 
All the afternoon is spent with Mr. James Brown who as one of the Auditing Committee has compared my vouchers with the payments of cash. 
Saw Dr. Nott twice today on matters relating to College matters. He seems to be gaining both bodily and mentally and, if no new attack comes on, he may live some time in comfort. 
R W. Lowber is dancing attendance upon the Trustees with the hope of effecting an amicable settlement of his matters with Nott Tr. Fund. Of the $95,000 bonds and mortgages due from him, he claims that the Fund justly should have nothing from him, because by a private contract with Dr. N. all his indebtedness to the latter has been more than paid even after these bonds and mortgages are cancelled!! He says the Bald Mountain Lime Works, estimated at $234,000, was purchased by him of Dr. N. in 1857, and cost the latter in cash $142,000. He claims that he has paid Dr. N. $13,000 for interest in the Nott T[rust] Fund mortgages, of which College has received only about $7 ,000!! In relation to the $7,000 law expenses which Dr. Nott claims from College on account of the Cove property, L. also says that he (Dr. N.) paid nothing -that he (L.) paid the whole and that, if any body is to be reimbursed for them, he is the person!! 

What a piece of business this whole connection between Dr. N. and Lowber is! What a miserable end it comes to! Concealment, extravagance, wild speculations; inflated hopes, big words, flaming promises! And the mountain brings forth a mouse! 
Wednesday July 28, 1859. Cool, windy day. Early the graduates began to gather upon College Hill. Of the Class of 1809, ten out of 12 surviving members were present. In the morning they called upon Dr. N. and had a pleasant and affecting meeting. At 11. H. W. Warner 
delivered  an  address  in the  2nd  Dutch  Ch. before  the class and  
assembled audience.  
In the afternoon  the Graduates  met in the Chapel where they  

partook of a collation and spent the time till 6 in an interchange of sentiments and good feeling. . 
Dr. L[ewis] gave me a clue this afternoon of the method by which the present peace between parties in College was brought about. It seems probable that for more than a fortnight Vph's opponents have been withdrawing their forces and cooling down in courage. Not till very lately have¥ they dared to acquaint Dr. N. with the state of things outside, partly because he was not strong enough to stand the announcement and partly because his known shrewdness would at once detect the folly of their position and the danger of it. to himself and College. When however he at last, on Monday, became aware more fully of their designs, he at once saw that there was but one course of safety--to make peace on the most easy terms, Accordingly on Monday P. M. he sent for Dr. L[ewis] to act as embassador with [whom?] the whole ground was carefully gone over and all obstacles removed to his satisfaction. Dr. H[ickok] was, solely for the sake of peace, to be requested not to use his Cosmology as a textbook in College and Dr. L[ewis] undertook to gain [his] acquiescence to it, provided it was understood to be for Dr. N. 's satisfaction and not from any intimidation from Prof. J[ackson] and his great gun, the scientific petition. When this was agreed to, one difficulty only remained, how to stop J[ackson] from firing off his gun, which he had loaded and primed at such expence of time and labor. Dr. L[ewis] said he did not know, that was not a matter of his, and he could agree to do nothing with him . So they parted. Next morning, Tuesday, before he was up L[ewis] was sent for by Dr. N. 
/70~ 
who said he had slept none all night thinking of the difficulty. He wanted L[ewis] to commit their treaty of peace to writing and address it to Dr. B[ackus]. L. went to his study and rapidly wrote the substance of the arrangement with Dr. N. to whom it was read and heartily approved of. While copying it, near ten o'clock, the time of the Trustees Meeting Dr. B[ackus] came in for it and without expressing approbation or disapprobation carried it away. Thus ended the war in smoke. Dr. L. says he expressly said to Dr. N. that this must be a lasting peace and not a truce, else he would have nothing to do with it, and so it was understood by Dr. N. and so expressed by him. -
Vph. and his friends feel that they have gained all they could reasonably ask for --whilst the opposite party must swallow their disappointment and chagrin as best they can. They commenced a.µ unholy war and failed to accomplish their object. 
Thursday July 28, 1859. A fine mild day, not hot. 
Commencement. The exercises of the day were held in the 2nd Dutch or, as some now call it, the 1st Congregational Church. Dr. Hickok presided and all things passed off with acceptance. It had been anticipated that our recent troubles would throw a damper over the doings of the College but from all I can learn there has been no falling off. The Prize speakers who gained the gold Blatchford medals were: 1st, Edward Chase of Portland, Me. 2d, Geo. W. Adams of Utica N. Y. 3d, the Warner Prize Goblet was awarded to D. B. Jackson, a very worthy young man. I have heard of nothing to mar the harmony and good feeling of the occasion. Of Class of 1809 I hear that ten persons out of 12 living were present, viz. Judge Shaler, Pittsburgh, Pa., Rev. Dr. VanVechten, Albany N. Y., Charles Burr, Saratoga Spgs., Henry Edson, Troy, Gideon Hawley, Albany, Ebenezer Griffin, Rochester, Sam!.' B. Ludlow, Oswego. Jno. Low, Charlton, D. Oli-phant, Andover, Mass. All these sat for a grouped photographic picture yesterday. 
Mr. R. W. Lowber has again called upon me today and detailed his story of his connection and financial transactions with Dr. N. It is a sad picture if only the half be true, and he has letters and contracts to confirm most of what he asserts 1. He informs me that he has sent over $13,000 to pay interest on his bonds and mortgages thro' ---."----who has only paid over to me $7,000 ofit. 2. The $7,000 for law expenses which ----"----claims and has been allowed by the Trustees, was never paid by him but by R.W.L. and therefore not a proper claim to speak in the lightest terms. 3d. And what astonishes me, L. says he he has sent me many letters thro' ----"----detailing 
/707 
the facts and claims in his transactions which, on comparison, we find were never delivered to me, altho' ----"----had promised to do so. This last trick to keep me and others in the dark has placed me in a false position. It would seem as tho' I had known all the time how Mr. L. stood in relation to ----""----and to U. C. but that I had kept the Finance Comm. and Bd. of trustees in the dark, thereby neglecting my duty to them and College. L. told me he had read some of these letters to the Finance Comm. yesterday, one in particular --a very "spicy letter" --which caused the Comm. to laugh. He says----"---.begged of him not to repudiate the $40,000 mortgage belonging to 
[the] N[ott] T[rust] Fund; for if he did, he would ruin him and throw discredit upon his memory. "You are a young man, L[owber}", says he, "and in a fair way to make money other ways, therefore dont hesitate to pay the money; I will give up all I have to you." On the other hand L. says ----"----has had all the profits of the "Cove" and has left nothing for him. "I have paid him," says he, "since 1851, nearly $1,000,000, and now it is all gone and he [is] hopelessly in debt". Poor, miserable, old, man! I pity him! What a sad end for one who ought to have now been in a condition to die easy! "Had I had the management of his property since 1846," said he, "he might now now have been worth a million and half of dollars." 
I find that L. wants now to get the management of the College interest in the Hunter Point property. He says it is badly managed and that he will guarantee College 3 times as much from it if managed by him, as they will get [by] the present management. He threatens if driven to a law suit to demolish the Trust Deed of Dr. N. and to put all things back where they were in 1851, when he began. 
Saw Dr. N. this P. M. He looks feeble and troubled; so he always looks when L[owber] visits Schenectady, altho she [Mrs. Nott] does not let them meet often. Something preys upon ----11----'s mind, it is easy to see. With a pitiful look full of anxiety he said to me today, "Did'nt you receive all the interest on Lowber's bonds and mortgages?" 
I. Sometimes directly from L[owber], sometimes from you or thro' you. He. "I never had any of the money; it never came thro' me --what should I have it for? Somebody says I had something to do with it, but I am sure I cant see what I had to do with it." L[owber] says and showed ----"----s letters to confirm it, that he always was instructed to send all money to me thro' him and that he would see me paid. -.--"----certainly has forgotten these letters and instructions. 
Vph. says everything went off pleasantly today and that he feels encouraged by present appearances. He says that----"----told 
11oi 
Dr. L[ewis] that the contract with Vph. must be carried out --that it would be destruction to U. C. not to-do so; and Dr. B[ackus] , Dr. H[ickok] and [Mr.] R. M. B[latchford] ofthe Board say that ----"---.urged the same thing to them. So it is quite evident that ----"---.truly desires peace now and sees nothing but ruin in strife and agitation. This being so, it may be asked what has become of J[ackson], who has been made the tool and factotum of others to do their dirty work, boasting of his 25 letters from scientific men and his strong majority in the Board against Vph.? He is like an old hatchet, thrown under the bench --of no more use. He is left high and dry and must suffer the consequence of his folly and dishonorable dealing. He said to one of Vph's friends, "I am not angry with you or with Vph., for I should have done as he has --but my friends have forsaken me" --evidently showing his chagrin at being made use of and then forsaken. Dr. B. must also feel something of the same annoyance. He has been more cautious but by many is believed to be the head and front of the opposition. 
Friday July 29, 1859. Fine day, comfortable and clear. In office all day with many interruptions. 12 o'clock. Called upon Judge P., who talked a whole hour upon College matters and especially upon the results of the late meeting of the Board. He considers the vote upon the General Committee as a test vote 8 to 7. He says that it is understood that the late treaty of peace between ----"----and Vph is to be lasting -that no one is to disturb it, or raise the question of Vph's succession; that the contract is to be carried out in good faith. Judge C. [?] told him that if [----"----and Vph. made up their troubles, then all would be well; no one would disturb the latter. Vph.'s opponents, it seems, try to convey the opinion that there was no test vote, evidently chagrined that after all their endeavours so signal a failure awaited them. It seems to be understood that the General Committee will not meet. The Chairman R. M. B[latchford] so says. The Judge then spoke of the interview with Lowber who seems anxious to get hold of the $45,000 in J. Brown's hands. I informed him that the "spicy letter" which he read to the Committee was never received by me; so I also said to Dr. B[ackus] soon after. 
Saw Dr. B[ackus] who talked cheifly upon the school and our meeting tonight. Dr. C. Van Santvord of Brooklyn N.Y., classmate, called this morning. 7 1/2 P.M. Meeting of Board of Education, and after along discussion voted 5 to 3 to build a new schoolroom on the Union School lot. 
Saturday July 30, 1859. Pretty warm day. With many interruptions, 

made out cks. for salaries of College officers and wrote many letters. 
Saw Dr. Nott twice; both times he was lying upon his lounge and complained of the troubled state of his mind, his being good for nothing, his inability to concentrate his thoughts on anything &c. The first time Mrs. N. was present and he spoke again, as he has often done since Lowber was last up, of the amount of money which L. charges to have sent Union College thro' him. I said that perhaps a part of the money had been sent for some other purpose altho Mr. L. now calls it interest. Mrs. N. How much have you received from him for interest? 
I. About $7,000. Mr. L. charges $13,000 as having been sent. Dr. N. I dont see how that can be. I am sure I have never received any money that I did not pay over. 
At the second interview in the P.M. I said that Judge P[aige] wanted to see him and would call between 6 and 7 o'clock in the evening if agreeable. At first he said he (Dr. N) would see him, but later changed his mind and asked what Judge P. wanted. I said, to talk of Mr. Lowber's matters. Dr. N. What about them? My mind is not in a fit state to say any thing about business. Clarkson Potter knows more about such things than I do. Wont you find out what he wants. If I can only have my mind a little while longer, I mean to get together my papers and look into Lowber's matters. I said that I believed Judge P. only wanted to tell him what L[owber] said and to indicate the course which the College had better pursue with him. 
12 M. Saw Judge P[aige]; checks countersigned. Spoke of the paper served upon me by N. Y. & Flushing R. Road Co., also of the money which James Brown Esq.á promised to advance the Nott Trust Fund to pay salaries on Monday next. He advises that it be taken as a loan and not as a' part of the Lowber money in his hands, so that there may be no interference with the suit, or as claim of U. C. 
He detailed the proceedings of the Trustees' Meeting and said that clearly the vote upon the Committee was a test vote --only that Halley said that he must not be counted as against Dr. Hickok; he voted as he did as an act of courtesy to his friend, Dr. Van Vechten. He also gave me the minutes of the meeting of the Committee of Five in which I find that Gordon is chosen Tutor, Dr. L[ewis] has $100 extra sal[ary], Peissner $200 add. sal. 
Judge P. says that, after the chairman he was first chosen and therefore in case of his absence the chairmanship would fall to him (Judge P.). 
Sunday July 31, 1859. Fine day. Wind south. At home all day with 

wife. Bro. Magoun arrived this morning at 4 from the West. He has been as far as Madison, Wis., thro' Canada &c. 
Monday August 1, 1859. Warm day but not hot. Saw Dr. N. at noon and found him sitting at his table with pen, ink and paper as if he were writing. This serves to amuse the old man and beguile the wearisome days of confinement. Mrs N. tells me that he got nearly upset yesterday by a long call of an hour from Chas. Burr of Saratoga Spgs. The Dr. got so nervous that she was obliged to call him out. B[urr], it seems, calls himself a Jew as to worship and religion, and this formed the topic of conversation. Since Comm't. he has been boarding at the old brick house near Brandywine Mills (paper mills) which he says was his father's residence for 6 yrs. in his (C. B's) childhood. 
Dr. L[ewis] says that Dr. N. sent for him again to talk about Prof J[ackson] who he feared would not consent to the peace measures lately adapted by the belligerants. L[ewis] went to J[ackson] and sounded him. The latter said he was willing to abide by the compact. It then became L's duty to see Vph. al).d speak of the use of his late book as a textbook in future. Vph. wanted to know what he should do if he were asked by the students to teach it. L. said this emergency must be anticipated by asking some of the leading members of the Senior Class to use their influence to prevent the others from making such a requisition of him. L. thinks that a years peace will so firmly fix Vph. in his seat that no future danger can arise to his prosperous administration of the affairs of College. It is said that Prof. Newman has a call to the Presidency of Lawrence University in Wisconsin. If this be true, it is doubtful if he accepts it. . :; . It_is_easj~r .. ~ PrqffisS in Un~ C_p}l.~than to~Pr~~idg_in a one-horser-~: 1 
PstPm_w<jfilfgeVJi.t~t&mf1ti~~m!!lfeY"Af1fflll(l~th Dr. N. on the c, á ,' , matter of R. W. Lowber's claims against him (Dr. N.) and Un. College, .\\, -á á ,; ~ that if possible he may be able to devise the means of protecting / .{.á .r-á both U. C. and Dr. Nott. Dr. N. has not been quite well enough to \" ' attend to business and if he were I doubt if he is willing to trust (/ himself to answer any questions upon this subject. He constantly says C. N. Potter knows more of those things than he does, and that his mind is not in a flt state to attend to business. Lowber's course disturbs him greatly; after every visit of this notorious person the Dr. is always in a sadly nervous and fidgetty condition. 
Tuesday August 2, 1859. Rain at intervals till 3 o'clock P.M. 11 Dr. Backus called to talk about school matters, particularly the 
cu~J/fYJncoIbqetv; IiioaffundsI Cifl/A ,ar uJ ------~ 7 th-sftutenfs Sato 9iuL~e./J,fh,5 ev.el)1n9; hede.J1r'eS fo +u1,U)t/h Py;N l"n 1/ie, 
171l 
appointment of a new superintendant. Among the many names 
mentioned we find it hard to select the best. 
Dr. Nott is so-so today. His greatest difficulties in the way of his 
recovery, after old age, are mental. Business and money matters are 
especially trials to him. Had he lived till the age of Methuselah these 
would never have ceased to vex and try him because he would never 
have completed them so that there should not have been a long tail 
to them. The bane of all his undertakings is that he never was ready 
to finish anything --never had a plan, but did everything by a series 
of trials and experiments, and never transacted any business openly 
and above board, but secretly and with so many contingencies that 
some one of them was almost sure to interfere with and ruin his 
projects. All his transactions, in a word, were lotteries in which were 
a thousand blanks to one prize. He wanted to see me today iD.
relation to some of Lowber's matters, but Mrs. N. persuaded him to 
forbear entering upon them until he feels better. 
Dr. L[ewis] says that J[ackson] has promised to keep quiet about 
Vph's book and not disturb the peace which now reigns on "College 
Hill." 
Saw Judge P. at 6 o'clock P.M. He says I had better visit Green 
Point this month and look after matters there. 
Call from Rev. Mr. Fisher of Johnstown in relation to Duryea's 
continuing to act as agent for Association of Alumni. 
Wednesday August 3, 1859. Warm day. 9 to 11. Call from H. S. 
Anable of Hunter Point, on his way to his wife's friends in 
Milwaukee, Wis. Conversation cheifly upon the prospects of the 
Point property, which according to his report is looking up. The 
present trouble there now is the quarrel between the Long [Island] R 
Road Co. and the N. Y. & Flushing R.R. Co. for a certain route and 
landing at the Point. The latter company, represented by 0. Charlick, 
had the expectation of selling their R. Road to the former at a round price, say at double its cost to them. The offer was refused and a á contract made with Crane & Ely for a way and landing independent 
of the Flushing Company. This Charlick opposes and now applies to 
court for an apprizal of the very way and landing above mentioned 
and has the impudence without leave or licence to commence the 
laying down of rails upon the ground. 
4 o'clock P.M. Dr. Nott sent for me. He seems quieter and more 
like himself than he did yesterday, and remarked that life was very 
uncertain with him, that he might die any minute, but thought that 
if he could have quiet and if his mind could be calm he might recover 
his old state of health and spirits and do some work yet. 

Mrs. N. remarked that he saw too many people, that she had to sendá away Mr. Preston (Dr. P. of Charlton) today. The Dr. remarked that he wished to see people who called upon him. 
Thursday August 4, 1859. Colleges are closed and all its inmates 
are departed. "The Hill" is a solitude. 
10 o'clock Saw Dr. N. and found him fumbling his papers and writing a letter. I wished to see him on a matter which has often of late occupied his thoughts: the number of Trustees that Union College is entitled to by law. I stated that I had found the number to be 6 Ex-Officio Trustees and li Elective, in all 21. He had for a long time supposed the number to [be] 22. After hearing the reasons for my statement, he assented to it and, putting his hand to his head, said, "I feel very sick this morning; my head is not right." To which Mrs. 
N. replied that he had been puzzling himself too much over his papers and writing letters . 
. This evening called to inquire about Dr. Proudfit, our old Emeritus Professor of Languages, who for two or three weeks has been failing, I am told. He is now in his 82d year, four years younger than Dr. N., yet it is probable he will die first, so Swits his physician thinks --heart disease, perhaps. 
Friday August 5, 1859. Fine day. All day in office --till 4 P.M. when took a ride with wife to the "Upper Aqueduct." 9. Dr. Hickok stepped into the office, having just returned from Burlington, Vt., where he went on Monday to deliver an address at the Comm"t. of Vt. Univ. He purposes now to leave on Monday for Conn. to visit his friends and wife's friends. Called again this evening upon Dr. Proudfit but did not see him --his dau[ghter] Sarah expresses considerable alarm for his condition and thinks him worse than he was yesterday. 
We have three aged men now connected with College, who in the course of nature must soon leave us: Dr. Nott, Dr. Proudfit , and our mail carrier "Jim-my Rogers"; the latter tho' in a humble capacity serving the College, has for more than 40 years as faithfully fulfilled his humble part as either of the others. He still travels between the City and the Hill three times a day, rain or shine. 
Saturday August 6, 1859. Fine comfortable day. 8 to 12 M. To Albany by R. Road. 1st, Called at Albany Co. Clerk's Office for certain deed left there for record: Union College to H.G. Warner, James Kidd d[itt]o, James Kidd to Un. College --all of certain reserved rents on lots in West Troy. 2d, To various places for a burglar safe to hold College cash and important papers. Found the article in Herrings 
f 713 
"Cash Box," made of thick boiler iron and furnished with a prime lock. This is at Kewins, State St., price $55. 
1 P. M. Call from Prof. Murray of Albany Academy with his assistant Mr. E. P. Waterbury, who came to speak for his brother Daniel as Superintendant for our Union School. He showed recommendations from many persons and left. 4 to 6 P. M. With wife out to ride up the river road as far as Rotterdam Springs. 
They tell me this evening that Dr. Nott has walked half way downstairs today (with his black man Moses' assistance?) and back and that he rode out this P. M. 
Today the correspondence between Drs. Nott and Hickok was published sur[r]eptitiously by the "Daily News." This [was] printed some weeks since but not published, for the use of the Trustees, and tho' guarded with care from the public eye it could not well be that a copy of it should not get into improper hands. There are few men, however, besides the editor of the "Reflector" and proprietor of the "Daily News who would under the circumstances publish such private papers. It is a pity because old sores may thereby be opened afresh when we had hoped all former grievances had been sealed. Moreover this correspondance does not look altogether well for ----"----in view of all that has been said and done by his friends against Vph. 
7 1/2 to 8 P.M. Called to see old Prof. Proudfit who has now a long time been superannuated and has at last become almost bed.ridden. Found him pretty comfortable, sitting in his arm-chair reading a newspaper. He is quite as chatty and garrulous as ever and seemed quite glad to see me. The old gentlemen was a man of respectable acquirements and among Freshmen and Sophomores was supposed to be one of the most learned men of his age. His kindness and good nature were proverbial; his preaching talents were not of a high order, he wrote a fair theological essay but read it in the most uninteresting manner. To one enamored with sound doctrine and caring nothing about the graces of oratory, his sermons would be edifying. Tonight he spoke despondingly of his recovery, but remarked that he was waiting patiently for his appointed time. 
Sunday August 7, 1859. Fine day, clear and warm. With wife to Bapt. Ch. but came away on account of her illness; thence to the Cemetery where by the silent grave of our poor boy Henry we received a most impressive and profitable sermon. How often in my botanical excursions has he wandered with me thro' these woods and plucked the wild flowers from the very turf beneath which he now sleeps! Sad are these lessons of severed ties, broken hopes, and departed joys! May the living lay it to heart! 
17I'+ 
Monday August 8, 1859. Fine comfortable day. All day in Treas. office. 11 Called upon Mrs. Wright (J. C.) with wife, also upon Dr. and Mrs. Backus, and with the former held a conversation upon the matter of a superintendent for our Union School. We have many persons in view but hardly know how to move, feeling our hands tied by perhaps a majority of the Board in the matter of the salary. The opinion among many is that we can get a superintendent who will serve us for a much less salary than $1,500 --some say for $1000; others say $1,200. Among the persons talked of are William Akin of New York, Johonnot of Syracuse, Danl. Waterbury of Delaware Co., Farnham, Chas. S. Vedder of Schenectady. The latter is well known to us, a fine young man but untried in the management of a school. Dr. Nott highly approves of the first or last. 
2. P. M. Called upon Dr. N. and found him sitting in his parlour for the first time for months; if he continues to mend in this way, he will soon be able to walk out and even to go about his ordinary duties. Here saw Mr. and Mrs. James Brown (of the firm of Brown Bros., N. Y.). 
Tuesday August 9, 1859. Fine day. This evening I called as usual upon old Dr. Proudfit and found him better than he has been for some days past --quite chatty after his old manner. Among other things he gave me a succinct account of his early life. He commenced the study of Latin and Greek at Gettysburgh, Penn. with an Irish clergyman by the name of Doblin, who was a thorough teacher. He entered the College there and graduated during the Presidency of Dr. Nevin. After leaving college, at the invitation of his cousin,, Rev. Alexander Proudfit of Salem, Wash. Co., N. Y., he came to that place with the view of studying Divinity because his cousin had a fine library. It so happened that the teacher of the academy was unsatis.factory to the trustees and left, and that another whom they had engaged for some reason declined coming. In this emergency, they temporarily employed the then young Proudfit, and so well did he fill the station that he continued to teach one year and three quarters and then closed his connection with the school only on account of sickness. About this time he was licensed by the Presbytery to preach and for the following two years travelled on horse back about 7000 miles as a Missionary among the destitute churches at this region. At length he received a call to become pastor of a new church formed in Broadalbin, and composed cheifly of Scotch settlers from the Highlands. He was ordained and installed on the 10th day of April, 1804, and continued their pastor till October, 1818, about 14 
171S-.
1/2 years. He left Broadabin to be come Professor of Latin and Greek in Union College in 1818. For more than ten years he has performed no duties in College but lived upon his pension of $500. and a house. 
Wednesday August 10, 1859. Dry and warm. The correspondence between Drs. Nott and Hickok, surreptitiously obtained and published in the Daily News, at the first gave to both considerable uneasiness. Dr. N. sent for Dr. Lewis and asked him what this meant, showing him a copy of the News; the latter said he had never before read the correspondence, but he had no doubt it had been published contrary to the wishes of Dr. H[ickok]; that it had been printed, he heard, for the Trustees alone in anticipation of a necessity for its use at the last meeting, but it had not been circulated. To this statement Dr. N. answered that there was no objection to this view of the matter, that Dr. H[ickok] had a right to use all lawful means to defend himself. Dr. 
L. then called on Dr. H., who confirmed what he had said and afterwards reiterated the same to Dr. N., thus disabusing his mind of the impression that an attempt had been made to reopen the discussion of this unpleasant question of .the succession. 
Dr. Proudfit is no better --if any thing a little weaker. Dr. Nott is quite comfortable and by Moses' help can hobble about and up and down stairs pretty well. His son John, who is spending a short time here, thinks he may live some time longer, but can never do any more work. Still I think it doubtful if he can refrain from the attempt: to do so would make him miserable unless his case is decidedly bad. 
John N[ott] is now a D. D., they say; made so by some Southern "one-horse" college. He is doubtless as worthy a Doctor as many others. He is at present preaching in the Presbyterian Church of Goldsborough, N. C. It was supposed last year that he would be recalled by his father to College to resume the Chair of Rhetoric but, a certain rumor of the thing getting abroad, the class sent in a petition to the Trustees against it. This document never became known to more than a few of the Board and was suppressed to save the Father's feelings. However good a minister John may be, his manners and oddities unfit him for a professor. His unfortunate habit of running in debt and not paying also very much injures his character and usefulness. There is no doubt that his leaving and staying away from Un. College has been a great relief to his friends in more ways than one. He is much better adapted for a Southern Minister than for a Northern Professor. 
Thursday August 11.1859. All the morning till 11 o'clock with the 

boys, John and Willie, at "Freeman's Bridge" fishing --caught nothing 
and came home hungry. 
Doctor Nott is now able to walk about a little every day and twice a day comes downstairs. He also rides out with pleasure and does a little head-work. His recovery is considered almost a marvel and is the wonder of all who know him. 
Dr. Proudfit remains nearly the same, altho' a little easier, more chatty and like his old manner. I saw him a half hour this evening when as usual he dwelt upon old times and past remembrances. In 1818 when he came here, he says, Dr. Macauley dwelt in the no. end of No. Coll; Dr. Yates in the so. end of the same building: Dr. Nott in no. end of So. Coll. and Dr Brownell in so. end of the same building. Dr. B. moved out one week before he came and he (Dr. P.) occupied his place and continued there 12 yrs. till 1830, when he moved down to his present residence, 183 Union St., and Dr. I. Austin Yates took. his place on "the Hill." Of the above Professors, Dr. Mac[auley] was his early pupil in Salem Academy and fitted for College under him. He was a ready and somewhat showy man but not accurate. Dr. Yates (the old Dr.) was the opposite, exact and a strict disciplinarian, hence unpopular with the students. It was understood that he meddled more with the discipline of College than the President desired; hence some difficulty arose between them, which eventuated in the farmer's leaving. 
Dr Hickok and wife returned today from Conn. where they have been since Monday last on a visit to her aged and infirm mother. Called this evening on Mrs. Nott who appears much encouraged 
á by the Dr's. amendment. She spoke also of Mrs. Crosby's calling upon her yesterday with her intended husband, Gen. Jno. T. Cooper of Albany, and of the delinquencies and bad treatment of her late husband, who not only neglected her for other women but squandered nearly all her property in profligacy. This is probably news to most of her acquaintances, for Crosby was supposed to have been a kind husband altho' a little too free with money. Prof. J[ackson] says, what I never knew before, that Gen. J. T .C. is one of the meanest men in the world, especially in money matters, is a hard landlord altho rich, and that he cheated the other heirs (his sisters?) out of a good deal of property and pocketed it himself. He thinks it is altogether a marriage of convenience on her part, and as much on his, he being an old bean in love with a pretty face and she in want of money to make a dash with. 
Friday August 12, 1859. Warm day with rain at night. At 12 M. called to see Dr. Nott whom I found in a comfortable state, able to 
/7 l7 
walk about his room with his staff. Among other things we talked of 
the Vale Cemetery, which led him to speak of a College Cemetery 
upon College grounds, which he did not approve of altho' Mrs. N. 
advocated it decidedly because of its exclusiveness and quiet. 
He soon introduced one of his old grievances --the neglect of the Trustees to carry out what he considered one of his great plans, to have all the College property deeded to him that it might again be deeded back by him to College in trust. This has been a favorite and much cherished plan of his, which some of the lawyers of the Board opposed as illegal and impracticable; nevertheless the idea, whether legal or illegal, has never been dismissed by him and it has galled him excessively that he has not been able to push it through. As he has failed in this project, he desires to give up the idea of a cemetery on College Grounds because he says it might be subject to sale by execution sometime and there would be no security for the dead therein interred. I endeavoured to oppose this idea, saying that a College Cemetery would be just as safe as the College buildings, that no Board of Trustees would ever think of allowing either to be sold, and that to a man they would do all in their power to render sacred the last resting place of the College Dead. But all to no purpose: his favorite idea of deeding all the property to him to be deeded back was too much for any other plan. He said he had rather be buried in the Albany Cemetery than on College grounds, altho' it did not matter much where. 
The $14,000 Mortgage upon the College property also was a matter of great annoyance, and tho' [t] it was a monstrous and unheard thing. He evidently did not remember that some years since he mortgaged not a portion of the outside lands, but all the College Buildings and grounds including the West College, now Union School, for $25,000. I came away sorry to find him so excited and vexed by this matter. Such things ought to be suffered to pass away and no longer worry his last days. The college will probably be carried on in the future, as other institutions of the same kind are, by the aid of its friends and a partial public. No man's plans being marred will ruin the College; wisdom will not die with this or that man, but will be perpetuated in others. There has been an opinion too long and too much indulged that only one man made Un. College and only one man's projects could perpetuate it. Nothing was ever more mistaken than this idea. Un. Coll. by its state patronage and aid and by the united labors of wise men in Faculty, Trustees, and elsewhere has attained its present position. Give all due respect and credit to our worthy President, grant that he has done more than any one man, and still it can not be said with any truth that he made the College. 

Because he has lived 54 years its President, the assertion is not 
proved; because he has managed its finances, it is not therefore 
proved that he furnished the funds; because lotteries were granted, 
it does not thereby follow their prosperity is due to his superior tact 
--far from it: without the skill and perseverance of Yates and 
McIntyre, neither the Colleges, himself, nor they would have realized 
a tithe of what was made out of them. 
Saturday August 13, 1859. Before noon the rain of last night ceased. 2 o'clock Called upon Dr. Backus by appointment to talk about the selection of a superintendent for Union School; after much discussion it was agreed to present to the Bd. of Education the names of three persons: Wm. Akin, Daniel Waterbury and Charles Vedder and to recommend the latter on a salary of $1,000. To this arrangement we came in part from the desire of the Bd. for a lower priced man ,which it is thot' cannot be had in the two first names presented. 
4 to 6 Rode with wife to the "Aqueduct," 4 miles below the city and called upon Mrs. James R. Craig. 8 By request called upon Dr. Nott whom I found lying upon a settee in his study downstairs. He complained of not feeling so well today as usual and attributed it to sleeplessness. He seldom gets more than 3 hours sleep now, altho' he needs much more. He says he never was a great sleeper and that one winter he took but 4 hours, in consequence of which he had a "fit of sickness" in the spring. He spoke then of seeing Judge Paige on the Lowber business at any time when convenient to him. Tuesday P.M. was fixed upon and Judge P. was notified of the fact. 9 P.M. Called again and chatted with Dr. Proudfit. The poor old man, being now confined to his room, gets weary of the slow passage of time; he desires the conversation of his friends because he can not read long at a time. 
Sunday August 14, 1859. Fine day. At home with wife, who was not well. 
Monday August 15, 1859. Dry and warm. All day preparing to go to New York on Nott Trust Fund business: examining accts there, preparing for sale of lots to Long Island Rail Road Company, 
executing  deeds,  and,  with  Judge  Paige,  who  goes  down  on  
Wednesday  to endeavour  to settle  the  disagreement  between  the  
Long Isd. R.R. Co. and the Flushing R.R. Co.  
New York and Brooklyn  

Tuesday August 16, 1859. Much to my disappointment awoke this 
J 719 
morning at 3 o'clock, for it was thought doubtful if the train at 4 o'cl. did not get along before I was up. At Albany at 4.40 and at New York at 10 o'clock, 31st Street; from whence walked across to 34th St. Ferry and reached Hunter Point at 10.30. Dined with Mr. Crane, with whom crossed to New York and called upon Mr. Weeks, attorney for Long Is. R.R. Co., 58 Wall St. with whom made appointment to meet Judge Paige on Thursday morning at 11 o'clock to confer upon matters appertaining to the Company. 
Called upon F. J. Hosford, 57 William St., wife's cousin with whom propose to stay tonight. In a city like New York I see nothing long enough to remember; the whole scene passes too rapidly and is too crowded with brilliant objects to make a lasting impression. 
Hunter's Point or Long Island City Wednesday August 17, 1859. Fine day. Left Hosfords at 8 o'clock and rode 5 miles on a horse railroad to Newtown Creek. Spent the whole day in examining accounts and in making myself familiar with the business of the land company at the Point. The improvements since last spring are pretty apparent. 1st, the 34th St. Ferry is opened and doing a prosperous business. 2nd, The 100-foot Avenue to Flushing is nearly completed; when done it will be a road of great value to the Point property. 3d. The bridge across the Newtown Creek has been rebuilt. 4th, A new dock and landing for the Flushing RR. 5th. Several new houses and others under way. 
The prospects are pretty good for sales of lots here, but little can be done before next spring when, if the country is prosperous, two hundred thousand dollars worth ought to be sold. 
New York Thursday August 18, 1859. Fine day, dry &c. Came to New York last night and called at the St. Nicholas Hotel to see Judge Paige but could not find him altho' said to be there. No beds, no room, nothing to be had there for anyone. Left, and called a few blocks above at the Metropolitan Hotel --full, but got "a cot in the parlour." The great influx of strangers in New York is cheifly from the South. 
Nine o'clock started with Judge Paige for 58 Wall Street, where at 11 o'clock met Mr. Crane and Mr. Weeks. Mr. Morris, Pres. of Long Is. R. R. Co., being out of town could not do the business we call[ed] for and deferred the matter till Saturday morning. 
Two o'clock back to Hunters Point with H. S. Anable to Astoria to acknowledge 6 deeds of lots sold. 7 o'clock back to N. Y. and slept at St. Nicholas Hotel in a drawing room with 6 others. 
1720 
Hunter's Point 
Friday August 19, 1859. All day examing accounts, comparing 
vouchers &c. and at night back to St. Nicholas to my cot in the 
drawing room. Saw Judge Paige again this evening. 
New York and Home Saturday August 20, 1859. At 11 o'clock there were assembled at Weeks & Deforrest's office, 58 Wall St., New York: Judge Paige, Jona. Crane for College, and Self for Ely & Judson; Morris's Pres., Pres. Long I .R.R.; Weeks, attorney; Havemyer for Flushing R.R. Co., 0. Charlick Pres. being out of town. 
The question at issue was whether the Long Is. R. R. or the Flushing R.R. should come into Hunter Point nearest or next to the 34th St. Ferry landing. Thus: 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
East River The Long Is. R.R. Co. purchased by .contract of C[rane] & Ely the block mat to the ferry; on learning this, Charlick, Pres. of the Flushing 
R.R. Co., endeavoured to supplant them by offering a larger sum for the property; when he found this impossible, he applied to court for the right to take the property and also commenced to lay down his rails upon it so as to get possession. So the case now stands. The one company has the contract for the land; the other endeavours to oust them and take their place. After talking the matter over for two hours, the two representatives of the R. Roads came no nearer a compromise and seperated. 
Five o'clock P. M. Started for home by Hudson R. R. and reached Scherr. at 12 o'clock. 
Sunday Aug. 21, 1859. Wife not well. Home all day with her. 
Monday August 22, 1859. Dry. Rain needed. This evening to meeting of Board of Education. The principal business was the discussion of the appointment of a superintendent and finally it was resolved to offer Mr. Farnham the post with a salary of $1,200. 
Tuesday August 23, 1859. Dr. L[ewis] called at Tr[eas.] Office and detailed a conversation he had had with Dr. B[ackus] about the settlement of our College difficulties at Commencement. The former said it was fully and fairly understood between him and Dr. N. that this settlement was final, a peace and not a truce; that Dr. Hickok was put back in the position which he held in 1852 and that the contract with him was to be carried out in full. Dr. B. on the-contrary said he did not understand it so, but that, in fact, Dr. H[ickok] was upon his good behaviour and that his stay here or appointment as Pres. depended upon public opinion outside of Coll. Then, said Dr. L[ewis], I will have nothing to do with this armistice. I am glad you tell me where you stand so that I may know how to meet you whatever may be your opinion of the matter. That was not the opinion of Dr. N. 
Wednesday, Aug 24, 1859. Rain all day and night, seasonable. Rev. 
C. W. Anable, wife and two sisters Mary and Fanny, neices of Mrs. Nott, are now visiting her. Rev. Jno. Nott is also here now. 
Dr. N. continues well or rather comfortable --travels about house, out of doors and on the whole is nearly as well physically as_ before his late sickness --a marvel to all his friends. 
Thursday, August 25, 1859. Received this morning notice from H. S. Anable of Hunter Point that my presence was needed ih New York immediately, on the Long Island Railroad business. After much hurrying of business and many calls, started at 7.20 P.M. for the boat at Albany --the "New World," which more resembles a floating hotel than the boats of 15 years since. It was near 9 o'clock before we cast off from the steamboat dock and near 12 o'clock before we got past the famous vexatious "overslaugh" where we stuck for hours fast in the mud, backing and pushing. 
New York City Friday Aug. 26, 1859. After a few hours of half-sleep, awoke at 6 o'clock and going on deck found the boat twenty miles from N. Y. and the sun shining brightly --a more perfect picture I have seldom seen. At 8 o'clock we landed. Breakfast at Astor House and at 9 o'clock at 58 Wall St., office of Weeks & Deforrest, the Attornies who manage the law business for Long Island R. Road. Found that not a step had been made towards the closing of the business and not an individual of all concerned there. At 10 o'clock started for Hunter Pt .. found Messrs. Crane, Morris and Anable and started back again for N. 
Y. Discussed the merits of the deed, defects and changes; the contracts &c., and finally found at 4 o'clock P.M. that so many alterations had to be made in the instrument already drawn that it had to be copied before it could be executed --a formidable undertaking of 3 or 4 hours close work. Promised that if the President, Mr. Morris of Long Is. R. R. Co., would see that all his papers were executed (duly) and at 58 Wall St. by 10 o'clock tomorrow, I would see that the deed was engrossed and executed ready for delivery. 4 1/2 Telegraphed to wife and wrote a note. 5 o'clock hasty dinner in eating house. 8. At Hunter Point and till 12 o'clock copy[ing] the deed. 

N[ ew Y[ ork] and Home Saturday Aug 27, 1859. Nine o'clock A.M. With Anable to N. Y. to execute the deed and other papers, but unfortunately found young L. 
K. Ely out of town; hence the business cannot be perfected till Monday or Tuesday when he returns. Having performed my part of the business before 10 1/2 o'clock, hastened to the Chambers St. Station to start for home in the 11 o'clock train. Where arrived safe at 5.40 P.M. This has been a hard two days work and I hope the last visit I shall be obliged to make to N. Y. for the present. The business of the land company at Hunter and Green Points is now performed in too clumsy a way to be comfortable or speedy. Every deed and other instrument has to be signed by four persons --Leicester K. Ely and Wife, William Judson, Treasurer of Un. College. It takes too much time, costs too much money in fees, is altogether too complicated a way of doing business. Mr. Crane, a former owner of 2/9[ths] (now probably owner in secret of the same), proposes that the Treasurer of Union College shall become the agent and attorney for the whole company, shall sign all the deeds and contracts and be the general fiscal agent. This may be done but will require an act of the Legislature. 
Sunday Aug 28, 1859. At home all day with wife. 
Monday August 29, 1859. More papers from H. S. Anable to execute --which were done and sent down by Mr. Crane, who goes by the -night boat. 1 o'clock Talk with Dr. Backus on school matters particularly the Superintendent. Mr. Farnham of Syracuse declines to come on our terms --$1,200. I proposed to Dr. B. to confer with Mr. Waterbury (Daniel) of Del. County and, to hasten the matter, went over to Albany to see his brother E. P. W., who promised to write for his bro. to come to A[lbany] that we might consult together. To 
A[lbany] at 1 3/4, back at 5.40. 
Tuesday August 30. 185 9. Cool nights and mornings. Fires not uncomfortable. Dr. L[ewis] dropped in and commenced conversation upon the old topic --our late troubles in relation to Dr. Hickok. L. has all along since Commencement said confidently that the arrangement then made between him and Dr. Nott was a true and lasting peace, 
J7v3 
and no truce. He understood it so to be and Dr. N. likewise. Latterly he has had doubts whether Dr. B[ackus] and Prof. J[ackson] acquiesced cordially in this peace; some recent movements seemed to show an uneasiness and a disposition to keep up the irritation and to hold back from a final settlement with the hopes ultimately of ousting Hickok from his place. To make sure therefore of what was doing L[ewis] went to B[ackus] not long since and desired to know if he understood the agreement betw. Dr. N's and Dr. H's friends as he did --if he took it as final and no more to be broken. B[ackus] answered no; that he only considered the matter as a truce, for the present emergency, that the question of H's apppointment to the Presidency was still an open question to be settled as future events should guide. Then, said L. , you very much misunderstood the matter; it was farthest from my thoughts to make any such temporary patching up of a peace only to be broken when one of the parties should think proper. This conversation made it necessary for 
L. to see and talk with Dr. N. upon the same subject, to clear up a doubt as to how far Dr. B. was encouraged by him. An opportunity occurred yesterday, when L. had an interview of more than two hours and fully went over the ground with him. Some part of the talk was pretty sharp on the part of Dr. N. but on the whole was quite satisfactory for our peace. Dr. L. presented his subject in four questions to which he asked direct and full answers, and received them as follows: 1 Are you friendly to Dr. H. and do you consider the peace which has been made a lasting one and not simply an armistice? Ans. I am Dr. H.'s friend and consider the arrangement made at Commencement as final. Dr. N., however, objected entirely to the word peace because, said he, I have never been at war with Dr. H. I am and have always been the best friend he has. 
2. 
Have you any objections to Dr. H's books so far as their orthodoxy is concerned? Ans. None whatever. Personally I have no objections to them, neither do I anticipate any harm from them to College. 

3. 
Do you wish Dr. H. to be your successor? Ans. I do. 

4. 
Will you use all your influence to make him such? Ans. I will. 


Such Dr. L. considers the final disposition of the whole matter --at least during Dr. N's life, whatever Dr. B.[ackus] and others may think. 
Wednesday August 31, 1859. Cool day. This morning till 11 o'clock with boys Jno. and Willie to Freeman's Bridge fishing --as usual caught nothing; still the boys had their gratification. 12 1/2 o'clock Called upon Dr. H. and among other things he stated that he had had a short interview with Dr. N. this morning --cordial and friendly -.both resolving to forget the past and for the future to work together for the good of the College. 

Dr. N. said he was going away for a short journey but before he went he desired to have a conversation with him and to put what he had to say in writing, and indeed he was already writing something which he wanted to submit to and leave for him. H. thinks all things augur well for peace and quietness. Dr. B., he thinks, is now the only disappointed and uneasy person --that he says the Old Sch[ool] Pres[byterian], the half of New Sch. Pres., Baptists and Episco]palians] are opposed to Dr. H's theology and that therefore it would be improper for him to be identified with the College as its President. 6 Uncle and Aunt Libbey from Staten Island came tonight on a visit. 
Thursday September 1, 1859. Cool. Saw Dr. N., who complains cheifly of the excitement produced by frequent calls and long conversations of his friends. They produce restlessness, and sleeplessness at night and the day following of fatigue. He says he wants rest and freedom from cares and business. 
Speaking of his intended trip away from home, he said it was his intention to go to Bedortha's at Saratoga Springs or to some other cold water cure for advice, but Mrs. N. dissented from any such treatment; and indeed it is the opinion of all his friends that that treatment would not at all do for so old and bloodless a man. Probably he will go to Philadelphia to Misses Anables where he will be among friends and can have all the attentions and comforts of home. It is plain, however, that he does not wish to leave "College Hill" --his heart is here and his desires are to do something more in his old routine of duties, altho' he cannot but feel that his desires cannot in a large measure be gratified. 
12 at Midnight With Dr. Backus started for Syracuse by R.R. Our errand is to talk with a Mr. G. L. Farnham, superintendent of common cchools there, with a view of calling him to our Union School. A cold disagreeable ride; arrived at S[yracuse] at 4.30 A. M. 
Syracuse and Home Friday September 2, 1859. High cold wind. This immediately followed the bright red aurora which we had all night --very similar to that of Sunday. 7 o'clock A. M. Breakfast at Globe Hotel, a dirty, dowdy place, cheerless and forbidding. No appetite for food and glad to leave. 8 o'clock With Dr. B. to call on the Rev. Mr. Canfield, Pastor of Pres. Ch. and inquired about Mr. Farnham about whom he knows nothing. 9 o'clock To Rooms of Bd. of Education in Market Hall where found Mr. F[arnam] and conversed one hour with him. He is a modest, enthusiastic young man; his appearance and views pleased us, but it is doubtful whether he will find it for his interest to leave a pleasant place for a new untried position for no more salary than we are able to offer him. Left him without anything definite. 10.35 o'clock A. M. Started for home. 12 Stopped 20 m[inutes] at Utica. Called upon Mr. Jno. H. Edmonds to inquire about his wife, who has been sick 3 o'clock P.M. At home. Called upon Miss Anna M. Anable at Dr. Nott's. Sent off by mail an affidavit to Judge Paige at St. Nicholas, New York. 

Saturday September 3, 1859. Cool and dry. The Union School matters are getting into a disagreeable snarl. Dr. Backus and myself (including Mr. Carley, who does not act) having been appointed a committee by the Bd. of Commissioners to look up a Superintendent, have endeavored to fulfil our duty in the matter by corresponding and conferring with Messrs. Waterbury and Farnham. The latter we saw at Syracuse yesterday, and the former we have invited to Albany to meet us at the house of his. bro. E. P.W. of the Albany Academy. Today we hear that in our absence to Syracuse, Mr. Brownell and others of the Commissioners have found a new man, Mr. C. M. Bennett of Fort-Plain, and at a meeting to be held this afternoon propose to elect him Superintendent. I saw Walker, Carley and Vandebogart and endeavored to persuade them to postpone the meeting till Monday night for several reasons 1. Because we as a committee were bound to meet Mr. Dan'l. Waterbury in Albany by appointment this afternoon at the same time the meeting is to be held; therefore we cannot attend a meeting of the Board; and 2. If we could meet the Bd., it would not be honorable in us to be present and by our presence countenance an election of a superintendent and immediately leave for Albany to report to Mr. W[aterbury] that he had come on a Tom-fool errand and might now go home with his thumb in his mouth. 3. Because we desired, as a committee appointed for that purpose, to go to Fort Plain and see Mr. Bennett, after which we would be ready to report all the candidates to the Board for an election. 4. Because the Board could not honorably take this business out of the committee's hands until they had given us an opportunity to report and discharged us from the service. Relying therefore upon the good sense and manners of the Bd. we went to Albany at 2 P. M. thinking they would postpone the election till Monday. Saw Mr. W. and talked with him till 5 o'clock, when I left for home, leaving Dr. B. who preaches for Dr. Campbell tomorrow. Arriving at Schenectady depot, the first man I spoke to was Mr. Brownell, who announced 

that the Bd. had met and elected Mr. Bennett and that the gentleman was now on board the cars, returning home to Fort Plain. Such outrageous usage is seldom witnessed except in political trickery. With indecent haste, in disregard of repeated requests to postpone one business day only, and ignoring the fact that the committee had travelled and spent much time in this matter, these 5 men have acted as tho' they had a right to override the minority and place them in the most humiliating position both with regard to those gentlemen with whom they have conferred and to the Board itself. 8 o'clock P. M. Telegraphed to Dr. B[ackus] at Albany the result of the meeting. 
Sunday September 4, 1859. Home all day with wife. Dr. Nott is so well now that it is thought b~st by his friends for him to make a short journey among his friends abroad. 
Monday September 5, 1859. 12 o'cl[ock] M. Had a long talk with Dr. B[aucus] as to the course to be pursued by us as a committee in relation to the insult put upon us by the Commissioners of Education in their indecent haste to elect a Superintendent of Union School. Our conclusion was to say nothing about it but by a dignified silence to treat them calmly, and cooly so that while they could see that we properly felt their ungentlemanly conduct, we still did not think so much of it as to use any violent or harsh language in return for it. 
Tuesday September 6, 1859. 9 o'clock Dr. B[ackus] sent for me to call at his house, where much to my surprise found Mr. Farnam of Syracuse, with whom we had conferred on Friday last. After much talk we found he was much inclined to accept of our former offer and would on his return home, before six o'clock this evening, telegraph whether he would or would not accept of our offer, which was made in accordance with a special resolution to that effect. In view of the probabilities of his accepting our offer, with Dr. B. [I] called upon Dr. 
N. to confer with him of the subject. He counselled moderation, no quarrel, not to press Mr. Farnham's claims but to let Mr. Bennett come and to try to help him on --all for the good of the school which in a quarrel would be sure to be injured no matter who carries the day. 
6 1/2 o'cl[ock] P. M. Mr. Farnham accepts! and we go to our regular Monthly Meeting and, as we are bound to do, report that fact, that we have got really two superintendants, both appointed by the Board. So much for hot hastes and boyish indiscretion in trifling with the proprieties of life and business! Those men who have th us far 
1727 
disregarded advice were taken completely aback and were dismaye,d at the consequences of it. They were in a complete sweat, and altho' we did not and do not intend to carry the matter farther, yet to give them a little punishment we proposed to the committee to inform both the candidates of the state of the case, which committee is the same as the former one to look up a superintendent. Here the matter rests. 
Wednesday September 7, 1859. Some students are dropping in. 
Considering our troubles in Coll. at Commencement in relation to Dr. Hickok, now known far and wide, it would not be strange if there should be a falling off in our numbers this session. Nothing is more sensitive than public opinion in regard to the character of a College --disturbances create distrust and easily students are turned to other Calls. Today Dr. Nott leaves for a short visit till Monday at Mr. Delavan's in Ballston, Saratoga Springs, Troy &c. After which he proposes to visit Rhinebeck, New York and Philadelphia. 
Uncle and Aunt Libbey left this morning. Union School begins today. 
Thursday September 8, 1859. Dry and cool., no rain. All day in Treas. Office attending to new students. This is the most important period of the whole year for College, because upon the additions which we have now depends the income in great measure of the coming year. Considering the noisy troubles which we have passed thro' at Commencement and before, it would not be strange if our numbers were somewhat reduced. On counting up the new students I find 43; at the same time last year we had 51, 8 more. Should the proportion be kept up for the next two days we may expect a diminution of about 20 in all from last years entrances. This will affect our income about $1000. I have today attempted to introduce a new feature in our finances of students, requiring for the first time 
á a bond from the parent of each student for the payment of his bills. It is hoped that this will work well and be the commencement of still farther reforms. These changes have to be made with great caution and noiselessly because Dr. N. is timid about them: his policy has always led to the utmost looseness in the collection of term bills and virtually thrown this department of our money transactions wholly into the power of the student, who was to pay or not as he pleased. 
Friday September 9, 1859. Dry, warm day. Entrance to College. On Friday evening last September 10 (1858), we had registered 88 new students; -tonight we close with the 66th --a falling off of 22. This 
ITti 
is without doubt the consequence of our late squabbles about Dr. Nott's successor. The blame should rest upon those who originated this foolish and unjust war, but it will not, because they will shift it over upon the innocent if possible. 
The cost to College of this falling off of students will be not less than $1,500 pr. an., or $3,000 to $4,000 in all. Once lost, the number is never made up in any class --it always feels the deficiency. 4 o'clock P. M. Peace or no Peace, Vph. mistrusts his opponents who, altho' now quiet, he thinks are working secretly for his injury. Even ----11----'s repeated good wishes and friendship, he fears and thinks, hollow-hearted. Just as soon as ----"----is gone, he supposes his enemies will rise up and show themselves, notwithstanding the present patched-up peace. Probably he is right. Dr. L[ewis] says ---."----áhas sent a queer, rambling, unsatisfactory letter to Vph. upon matters concerning their relations to each other and to the College. Hope to get a sight of it. 5-6 o'clock P.M. Fae. Meeting, all present save Gillespie and Dr. N. Course of study arranged for the session and adjourned without any other business. 
Saturday September 10, 1859. Rain all day, moderate. At night 77 students had entered, 24 less than last year's entrance on Saturday á night. At this rate we may look at least 30 [short?] before the close of 
the term. 
Mrs. Nott and Moses came down from Mr. Delavan' s today and immediately returned. The Dr. (N.) continues comfortable and before returning to College intends to visit his son Howard in Clifton Park, and possibly Troy. 
Sunday September 11, 1859. At home all day with wife. 
Monday September 12, 1859. Very perfect weather, mild and balmy air. Another small breeze in College. It has for some time been buzzed about Coll. that Prof. N[ewman] is lazy and does [not] quite come up to the proper standard of scholarship in his professorship. This I am told has been the opinion with students as well as some professors. At last by some means it came to the ears of N[ewman] that Prof. F[oster] had spoken of his deficiencies. F[oster] boarded in N[ewman]'s family last term. About a month since, N. sent F. a letter which it seems did not reach him but was sent back to Schen. In this letter N. says that on account of F.'s defaming his character he does not desire his presence in his family the next session. F. came back from the seashore on Thursday and went directly to his room in N's house, took breakfast and dinner and in the afternoon got amongst 
/719 
his letters from the post office that sent by N. nearly a month since. 
Then was explained the cold looks of N. and family on his first 
appearance. The consequence has been that F. has taken board at 
Given's Hotel, whilst his wife remains at home in Mass. 
Met two divisions of Junior Class today at 10 and 11 o'clock 
A.M.in Conics. Students have entered College. A great proportion of them are Scientific students, without a competent knowledge of Latin and Greek. It now looks very much as if the lessening of the requirements for entrance to College and doing away with the ancient languages is tending to encourage the disuse of them or is driving classical students to other Colleges. 
Called by invitation on Dr. Backus to talk about textbooks for Union School with Mr. Bennett, Super[intendent], did not find him there and came away. 
Tuesday September 13, 1859. Dr. and Mrs. Nott are still absent at Mr. Delavan's. Report says the Doctor is much improved and enjoys his visit much. He is expected home on Friday next, after which, probably next week, he purposes to go farther --to Rhinebeck, New York, and Philadelphia where he may make a prolonged stay. Our new students now number 86; before the close of the ~ession we hope to reach 100. If we do, considering all the untoward circumstances of the last three months, we shall do well. 
With all Dr. N. 's prejudices against collecting student's bills closely, and his loose method of dealing financially with them, saying yes to all they ask, it has been hitherto impossible "to gird up" any in this branch of our finances. When I first entered the Treasury Office, no bond was taken from anyone when he entered College and very few when the student left. Some notes were taken but not being sealed they run out before many of the graduates had well got into business and able to pay the obligation. 
At first I took a bond of every person at his entrance for the payment of all lawful College bills. As this was quietly done, Dr. N's fears were not awakened. Other obligations were also taken in case of nonpayment, wfth a surety if possible, when the student graduated. Something was gained by this, altho' in a majority of cases the student being under age the bonds were of no legally binding obligation. This fall I have endeavoured to make another advance and now require the joint bond of student and his parent or guardian. This plan appears to work well and will doubtless save some debts which otherwise would be lost. 
Wednesday September 14, 1859. Most of our students are in 
/730 
moderate circumstances, and many are quite poor, being obliged to 
depend cheifly upon their own exertions for the payment of their 
bills. Such it is impossible to press hard; in fact they should receive 
more aid than the College can afford to give them. 
Powerful wind today and cold as winter. Trees are stripped, by 
force, of fruit and leaves. Overcoats and fires are needed and called 
for. 
Thursday September 15, 1859. Tonight we have 95 new students. Dr. L[ewis], who has had much to do in trying to settle our late troubles about Dr. H's book and position, takes a not very encouraging view of the position of affairs. He feels that the opponents ofH. are not hearty in their assent to let past troubles be forgotten, but are still reserving their charges for a future time when they can more safely carry their point. This if true is a discouraging view of our affairs, because we never know when the College may have peace or war. 
Friday September 16, 1859. South wind and at night rain. Prof. P[eissner] says that before ----"----left Coll. on his present visit to Ballston he sent a letter to H. of a very unsatisfactory character, filled with all the strange things, non-committal, laudatory, threatening unknown evils, which he alone can write. So dissatisfied were H[ickok] and L[ewis] with it that the former addressed him a note saying he could not understand his letter and the latter sent another in which he flatly shows his dissatisfaction by saying he will no longer have anything to do with the business. The fact is that ----" --.-seems to be playing fast and loose. To H's friends he is anxious for peace, lasting peace --the good of the College demands it; to his own friends, H's opponents, he seems to make some conditions for H's future prospects of the presidency: if the public do not get dissatis.fied, if his books do not endanger the prosperity of College &c., then he may be President. 
Mr. Delavan came down today, to make his farewell calls ostensibly, before going abroad. Called upon Dr. H. and L. and very kindly advocated peace, that they should not make any more trouble but let matters go on quietly &c&c.!! --as though H's friends had made the trouble and were the uneasy persons to be soothed. This of all the strange freaks of those strange people is the coolest thing that we have had happen these many months. 
Prof. G. says F[oster] and N[ewman] have had a long talk together about their differences. The former, it seems, charged strongly upon the latter his delinquencies in his professorship, whilst 
Ilo I 
the latter asserted that he performed his duties acceptably; then the matter ended. Foster, being thrown out of his rooms at N[ewman]'s now talks of fitting up three at his lecture room in Phil. Hall and moving his family in there. 
Saturday September 17, 185 9. Rain till near night. Saw Judge P[aige] on business. Among other things talked about, he spoke of an interview had with Mr. E. C. D[elavan] a few days since respecting our late troubles in College. By his account it was spicy and entertaining. D[elavan] looks upon the contract made by Trustees with H[ickok] as no contract at all; he does not hesitate to repudiate [it] and in fact said he never understood it as a contract. Moreover he took special pains to make it appear that his visit was not at the suggestion of----"----, now visiting at his house, who has never said anything against H. but on the contrary is his best friend or would be. if he would let him. Judge P. told him that, in saying he did not understand that contract, he impugned his understanding and stultified himself, at which D. flared up in great wrath. Moreover, P. said, only three of the Trustees are now opposed to H[ickok]: himself (D.), Dr. B[ackus] and Dr. Van V. with, perhaps, Chan[cellor] Walworth]. 
After D. went home he wrote a long letter to P. saying that there was now only one thing in the way of perfect reconciliation of this matter --the contract between U. C. and H[ickok]; that if H. would wave this contract and no longer contend for its binding power, then all trouble might cease!! So silly a proposition could hardly have been expected from a sane man. In what manner does a solemn engagement like this interfere with the good feeling between the parties? It has had nothing to do with the quarrel hitherto and can in no way obstruct a lasting peace if there be a disposition thereto. If Mr. D. supposed H. and his friends would give up the strong ground upon [which] they stand and trust in the magnanimity alone of his opponents to do him justice, then he must be a simpleton. H. will never put his hand thus in the lion's mouth. Now, notwithstanding ----"----'s repeated asseverations that he desires H. to be his successor and will work for it, there cannot but be a lurking feeling in the minds of many that he does not know his own feelings when he says so. It is said that since his memorable conversation with Dr. L[ewis] he has charged H. with heresy in theology, and it is now generally understood that the unsatisfied, sore-headed iindividuals have dropped the attack upon the book, and cry heresy, as being the most powerful weapon with which to influence the outside public. 
113~ 
Sunday September18, 1859. A perfect day in every respect. At home all day with wife. 
Monday September 19, 1859. Fine day and warm. Mrs. and Dr. N. returned from Ballston Saturday. He seems much benefitted by his visit and will leave for another jaunt the latter part of the week. 
The first mischeif of the term took place on Saturday in a trick intended for the Freshmen. It is supposed to have been carried out by the Sophs. The Chapel was broken into and a calf tied among the Freshmen seats with a label signifying that this was a Prize Scholar. 
Tuesday September 20, 1859. Library days are Mondays and Tuesdays from 8 3/ 4 to 9 3/ 4 A. M. First opened it this morning. Our term opens properly with one hundred new students, a large proportion of which however are Scientific and University students. My impression is that we have abroad a better reputation as a scientific school than for Classical and Literary attainments. Perhaps 
our double course may contribute to this reputation. 
In spite of the encouraging state of affairs outwardly the old sore which troubled us so painfully at Commencement is only healed over on the surface. The elements of strife and ill feeling are as rife as before our hollow truce, or peace as some call it, and it will only require a little matter to call forth the same opposition to H[ickok] that so nearly wrecked the College three months since. 
Wednesday September 21, 1859. Rain in abundance tonight. Our classes are so large and the number of Professors and Tutors so small that it requires the greatest skill to give to all their due proportion of instruction. Our method of instruction is of course cheifly by daily recitations; this requires, to be thorough, small classes, but some of ours in actual attendance have 80 or 90. This number should be divided into 3 or 4 divisions to be taught well but, short-handed as we are, it can hardly be done to our satisfaction. 
Thursday September 22, 1859. Rain still all day. The current talk today among the faculty is an attempt to arrange for the division of the Freshman class into two parts for the more convenient and thorough instruction in Greek and Algebra. But who to do it? Profs. L[ewis] and P[eissner] suggested that C[handler] should take one portion of the class in Algebra and he was asked to do so but declined as he had not studied it these 7 years. This coming to J[ackson]'s ears caused much wrath and angry discussion. He had not 
1733 
been consulted, as he ought to have been by H. or Dr. N. &c&c. This 
heat is evidently caused as much by his ill feeling towards H[ickok] 
as by the fact of his not being consulted. So we go: a little matter 
now is magnified and made much of. 
Saw Judge P[aige] and got the contracts for Long Is. R R. Co. which he has been making, to be sent down tomorrow. This P. M. saw Dr. N., who leaves tomorrow for Rhinebeck, New York and Philadelphia. Spoke of the Alumni Hall and urged energetic action by the Executive Committee. ----"----spoke of the new President's House and said he did not care whether it was finished or not. She said she did and would like to have it finished by next summer. 
Friday September 23, 1859. The usual tricks of College have commenced early this year. They are of no consequence so long as they do not exhibit malice and wanton waste of property. It usually happens that the Freshmen are the butt of the Sophomores for one or two sessions until they learn to defend themselves. The first trick this session was the placing a calf in Freshmen seats in Chapel. The second was the pouring of varnish upon their seats. 
Saturday September 24, 1859. The Executive Committee of the Association of Alumni are called to meet this evening at the house of 
C. B. Cochrane. Dr. Hickok, Prof. Foster and C. B. Cochrane are the members who reside in Schen. Two others belong out of town. It is expected that this Committee will do all that is necessary to be done whilst the Assoc. is not in session. The immediate pressure now is the ways and means to raise money to finish "Graduates Hall." It is supposed that Mr. Duryea will be reappointed agent and instructed to push the business forward to completion. 
Sunday September25, 1859. At home all day with wife. 
Monday September 26, 1859. Fine day. 12 o'clock M. A little fight came off between Campbell and Holmes, occasioned remotely by a young lady in town who is said to have been slandered by one of [the] youngsters or his friend. In the fracas Beckwith interfered and rapped one of them over the head with a cane. No damage seems to have come of the fracas save a little scratching and bloodletting. 12 1/2 Dr. L[ewis] dropped in and gave some account of his late interviews with ----"----in regard to our late troubles. He is decidedly convinced that nothing is settled by the truce made at Commencement; he feels chaffed that he should have been so egregiously bamboozled by ----"----who, altho' professing the most 
173~ 
unbounded friendship for Vph, really in his heart hates him and would like to get rid of him. L[ewis] says up to this time he has had confidence in ----"----; now he has none. He thinks ----"----'s moral perceptions are blunted, and while playing a double part in regard to this matter, is not aware of the heinousness of his double dealing. L. lays much of this state of things upon Mrs. [Nott] and Dr. Backus]. Among the latest charges against Vph. is that of teaching false doctrine in regard to the Trinity! 
Tutor Bartlett lately visited College; no sooner had he appeared than he was approached by ----"----'s friends to see if he had not heard something from Vph. tending to confirm this charge. He denied at once any such knowledge. 
On Saturday a School Committee meeting at 2 P. M. on the subject of introducing the Spencerian System of Penmanship -and this evening, 6 1/2 -8 1/2, a meeting of the Board on miscellaneous business. The complexion of our meetings the last 6 mos. has much changed for the worse; by the introduction of a young set of not highly educated men our meetings are more like an engine company's meetings or a political caucus. 
Tuesday September 27, 1859. Most perfect day. Dr. H. says the result of the meeting of the Executive Comm. of Association of Alumni held Sat. eve. was: 1. A resolution to lay the first floor timbers of Graduates' Hall and cover them with rough floor (if funds can be raised). 2. to call in the half of subscriptions now due without an agent. 3. to consult the New York graduates upon the propriety of sending I.G. Duryea as agent to solicit new subscriptions and, if their answer is favorable, to commence work immediately. I saw Foster, one of the Executive Comm. and urged immediate and prompt measures at collection, that we may see if sufficient funds can be raised to meet the estimates for the floor timber and labor. 
H[ickok] has no belief that the building will be completed at present, thinks the money cannot be raised. Graduates have no confidence in our business capacities and doubt our capability of properly taking care of the finances of College; they are luke warm and give as little as possible --rich men giving 5 and ten dollars only when they ought to give ten times as much. This is a shameful state of things. Whilst we have been two yrs. talking about a Hall and raising only $2,050, and obtaining only $6000 or $7,000 in subscriptions, many of our little "one-horse" colleges have raised 20 times this amount. 
Wednesday September 28, 1859. Call from Jona. Copeland of Class 
1735' 
1841, now Pres. Minister at Champlain, Clinton Co. N. Y. --lately of Halley where he was pastor 16 yrs. Paid his bill of 30 d[ollar]s due since he left College. He married a dau[ghter] of Mr. Jno. Clarke of Niskayuna. 
A fire last night next door to Mr. Wm Lyman's is said to have burnt off his roof and much damaged his house. Mr. Harvey Davis, an old citizen, was buried this P. M. 
Thursday September 29, 1859. Mild day. 9 A. M. Dr. H[ickok] called to consult about the division of the Freshman Class in Greek and Alge bra, there being 3 5 of them. The question was shall the two tutors Deremer and Gordon be employed at an extra compensation of 25 to 30 d[ollar]s to hear an extra recitation, each thus enabling us to divide the class, or shall some other device be contrived to relieve the pressure. I said that there was a feeling in the faculty that Dr. L[ewis], who has but two recitations, should take at least another in Greek in the Freshman Class; that there was a feeling that his asking for $100 extra salary last session for hearing a third recitation was not right, especially in view of the fact. that Foster last year heard two extra recitations in Rhetoric --a study entirely out of his profession --and to this time has received nothing therefor. These things, I said, just at this time made a bad feeling in the faculty and if possible should be avoided. In the P. M. Dr. L. came in, evidently fresh from a conversation with DL H., and complained that his case had been misrepresented. He asserts that for many years he had 3 and sometimes as many as 5 recitations, and that never till lately did he have so few as 2. I said but little as it seems proper that he and Dr. H. should settle this matter between them. 
Friday September 30, 1859. For more than a month Jno. Nott has been visiting among his relatives in these parts. On Monday next he purposes to leave for his present home at Goldsboro, N. C. He tells me when he went there some years since he found three old ladies, members of the Presbyterian Church; these he made a church of and built a Meeting House costing $6,000. His salary is only $400 pr. year, quite insufficient he says to pay his expenses. Having run in debt for his board for two years, he now learns that his landlord, while he had been away, has sued him for the amount due and threatens to seize upon his salary as it becomes due. From all he says it is quite certain that he is acting over again the part he has so often played here and which finally obliged him to leave to avoid unpleasant consequences. Jno. is a perfect child in money matters; it matters not what may be his income, he will get into debt and in such a hopeless salary of $800. which Dr. N. promised should be continued to him! To this arrangement there happened to be but one objection; it was not ratified by the Trustees and Dr. N. dared not to bring it before them, knowing it would look to them like robbing an already impoverished treasury. The Finance Committee ordered the salary to be stopped and for doing so I received the severe displeasure both of Mrs. and Dr. N. All manner of persuasions were used to induce me to continue this pension to his absent son, and when all things failed he gave it up with a bad grace, saying that by this measure he had been induced to alter his will by which College would lose a great sum of money which he should give to John. 

way  and  by  such  odd  contrivances  and  such  promises  and  
representations  as too often damage  his reputation  for truth  and  
honor. The future for him is certainly gloomy and he feels it so.  
When he left College a few years  since he was in receipt  of a  

John says that in 1852, when he heard that his father meant to deed a portion of his property to College, he determined to oppose it with all his might because he was fearful that by such an act he should be robbed_of what he had been promised --a competency for his old age and infirmities. It was then, says he, that "Dr. and Mrs. N. both assured me repeatedly that I should have $1,500 pr. an. so long as I lived. On the strength of this promise I acquiesced; and now see where I am: the old man has fooled away all of his immense property or been robbed of it by sharpers and I am left in my old age, broken down with sickness and almost blind, without a cent to help myself with except the meagre pittance of $200 a year as 
á Visitor of his Fund. I cant live on my salary as minister, and what am 
I to do? My brothers feel very angry with Dr. N. for his 
management of the property." 
Saturday October 1, 1859. á Rain in afternoon. Jno. N. came in again this morning to talk over his troubles and get condolence from some one, if possible. He brought in two drafts made upon and accepted by his father, one for $580, and the other for $200, which he deposited in my hand, asking that if there should happen any chance for their being collected from his father without distressing Mrs. N., it might be done. These I sealed up and deposited in the College safe for sure keeping, without the slightest expectation of ever doing anything with them. Poor John! I pity him, there is not --never was --much in him; he is incapable of taking care of himself and has always hung upon his father, who pensioned him upon College as long as it was possible; being cut adrift from that, it is not possible for him ever again to come back. Without the strong support of his father he could never have staid in Coll. a day. 

á Dr. and Mrs. N. are now in Phila. He is quite comfortable; last Sunday in New York he attended church and afterwards rode three miles. In Phila. he is able to walk around a block in the morning &c. 
Sunday October 2, 1859. Beautiful day. At home all day with wife. 
Monday October 3, 1859. Weather d[itt]o. Jno. Nott leaves tonight for 
N. C. to resume his labors in Goldsboro, as pastor of Pres. Church. In some respects I am not sorry he goes away from U. C. for a more fussy man we seldom find in our intercourse with men. His late hobby has been to bother us all with soliciting us to write letters for him on account of weak eyes; these letters are all confidential, for which reason one is asked to write 4 and another 6. Then come his little money matters which give him and us more trouble than another mans $10,000. First I pay him $200, a part of his salary as Visitor. Instead of taking this and paying with it his debts or using it as his occasions require, he must leave a part on deposite to draw against it in formal manner as one would draw on a banker. Going thro' all these formalities seems to him like doing business of some magnitude and with it he tries to make others believe the same. Poor Jno! what will become of him in the end I do not know. His expectations from his fa[ther] are all dashed and nothing remains but to depend on his bros., who are not much better. 
Tuesday October 4, 1859. Quite warm, hazy, Indian summery day. Called on Judge Paige who has been to New York again on College business. Long Island R. R. Co. having paid the money on their purchase, I have today received C[rane] & E[ly]'s interest, $4,424.82, which very much relieves N[ott] T[rust] Fund finances. 
Observe in N. Y. papers today a report of suit against ----"---.and R. W.L[owber] for $5,000 by Duncan, Sherman & Co. No contest by----"----.. Here then is another disgrace; for a clergyman, Pres. of Coll. &c. to be thus shown up before the world is a crying shame and only shows the perfect recklessness of----"----in all his money transactions. He did not prize his character a straw; the only thing thought of was how to make money, no matter with whom ( e.g. R.W.L.) no matter how, if only money came. And yet all his schemes failed and now he is trumpeted abroad as a bankrupt with such a scamp as R.W.L. 
Wed October 5, 1859. As fine a day as we have had this season. All the world and his wife are stirred with the desire to visit the great 

annual fair of the state now held at Albany. Crowds upon crowds are flocking to it and distressing each other by all manner of annoyances peculiar to such gatherings. The students are so uneasy that Vice Pres. Hickok has granted this Friday as a holy day. Union School likewise must go and the same day has been granted to them. 
Freshmen Prize Examination was held last [night] and tonight. Only one person presented himself for the trial --Taintor by name. 
Thursday October 6, 1859. Cooler and windy. The rage for the great fair at Albany is in no wise abated, for today all vehicles are in requisition, the Railroad is run down with passengers, and the business streets of the City look like Sunday. Is the good after all a fair compensation for the evils of such gatherings? It is gratifying to see big pumpkins, fat bulls, stout horses and what not, but at the same time it is a sad sight to witness the dissipation that darkens this bright picture when such great promiscuous assemblages are convened. 
Friday October 7, 1859. Fine day. This day was given to the students as holy day, to give them an opportunity to attend the fair at Albany. It has been very generally used by them. Had a long conversation with Dr. L[ewis] on the subject of repairs to his house. Ever since he has occupied it, he has found fault with it because he tho't it in an untenantable condition; sometimes one thing, sometimes another has been the subject of complaint. The particular point now under discussion is a porch for the front door, called a "storm-house." The one which he has hitherto used no longer suits him and the matter has been brought to the notice of the Resident Trustees. Called upon Judge P[aige] and upon Dr. B[ackus] to see if a meeting of Res. Trust. could be had upon this subject. Saturday night, the only time when Mr. Cochrane is here, is to be taken upon with a ch[urch] meeting of the Presbyterians, therefore the contemplated meeting must be postponed indefinitely. 2 P.M. Attended another meeting of the Board of Education, being the 3d. or 4th held this week. This school business is getting excessively burdensome, and the sooner I am out of it the better. 
Saturday October 8, 1859. Drizzly, foggy, with rain at night. Matters in College go on much as of old. "Graduates Hall" has stopped progress for want of funds, and it is now doubtful when it will begin again. Funds are not easily raised for U. C. We are now reaping the evil consequences of years of humbug and false showings in finances as well as the suicidal policy of not cultivating the good will and 
1739 
sympathies of our graduates. When asked for money, our graduates do not respond to the call as they would if their feelings were enlisted in the prosperity of Alma Mater; they are half estranged from her, they feel [no] confidence in her, [or] love for her; on the contrary, they begin to speak cautiously of our bad management of our money matters as shown by the late investigations, or they say you have money enough already, where is the 610,000 doll[ar]s given you by Dr. N.? or they refer to our want of discipline and looseness of morals. If they subscribe to our "Graduates Hall," it is only a trifle, just enough to get rid of the matter in the easiest manner possible. 
Two influences above mentioned are beyond measure injurious to us. 1st. The want of interest in College after the students graduation. I know many men who, when once they leave College Halls, never again return to them. There are those who have lived no farther off than Albany for 15 years and yet have not once visited their Alma Mater. Why all this indifference? Because for SO years not one effort has been made to gather back our alumni and make a pleasant meeting for them at Commencement. Not one effort has been made to throw the burden of College upon their shoulders and teach them to feel that the prosperity and reputation and success of Un. College depended upon them. 2nd. On the contrary, everything has been done to make the public feel that we were having a vast endowment rolled up: $610,000 dollars forsooth! As greivous a humbug for us as the nightmare to the sleeper. If true, then sure enough why ask for more so soon? If false, then who is the deceiver and for what has he published the enormous lie! 
If Union Coll. has lived and shared in a measure the prosperity of our neighboring colleges, it has been in spite of all the malign influence shed around her. With an unparelled position relative to all parts of our great state, and being first upon the ground, it were not possible but what she should have students, but her prosperity is not and never has been what it should be. Had the spirit of her authorities been literary and religious rather than speculative and financial; had the pub lie been asked to join in helping forward the infant institution with not money so much as prayers and good confidence, we should now have been in the front rank easily, instead of bearing the mark of Cain among Colleges, and the ignoble name of "Botany Bay." 
Sunday October 9, 1859. Fine day. At home with wife. 
Monday October 10, 1859. Fine day. Library days this session are 
'1740 
Monday and Tuesday from 8 3/4 to 9 3/4 A.M. Junior Class in Conics every day in two divisions from 11 to 12 o'clock A.M. With all these calls for time and a hundred others, the day is not long enough to fulfil all the calls upon me. I often feel that some of my burdens must be laid down for want of strength to carry them. 
Tuesday October 11, 1859. Fine day. Mrs. Wright [widow] of Jno. C. Wright Esq., late Comptroller of the State, is said to be near her end. Besides some old female complaints she has had the typhoid fever and a relapse, all of which have contributed to reduce her near the grave. It is not supposed she can live many days. 
Mr. Harvey Davis, who died a few days since, has resided here many years. More than 25 years since, he was a hatter; leaving his trade he commenced tavern-keeping; about or a little before, the time of the building of the Utica and Schen. R Road, he kept what has been known as the Given's Hotel in which it is said he made a snug property. Since leaving this business many years ago, he has lived retired, without occupation. 
Wednesday October 12, 1859. Fine day. For some days my father has been sick of inflammation of lungs and fever, accompanied with great weakness. Today old Mrs. Toll, relict of Rev. John C. Toll of Glenville, was buried. She resided upon the old farm with her son, P. Riley Toll. No news from Dr.á Nott, who is now residing at Philadelphia with the Misses Anable, neices of Mrs. N. It is presumed that he is comfortable. Prof. Jackson has been absent since Saturday, having gone to N. Y. to see Mrs. J[ackson]'s neice, Miss Dodge, off in the European steamer for London. In the same ship sail Mr. and Mrs. Delavan, Gen. John F. Cooper and his new wife, Mrs. Crosby of Troy. 
A new sensation is felt in the city today occasioned by the intended turn-out of a set of boys calling themselves the Sons of Malta. What and for what this new society is got up no one knows. The Odd Fellows a few years back were very popular, but this society has lost its novelty as the "Know Nothing" lodges have and something new is demanded. 
Thursday October 13, 1859. Pleasant day. Last night at 11 o'clock went out with son Jno. to see the turn-out of a company calling themselves the "Sons of Malta." What it all means no one pretends to know; they pretend to be a benevolent society. From the best information I can gather they are a set of "fast young fellows," who adapt this disguise to create a sensation. Their dresses were 
174\ 
apparently a long white tunic or gown enveloping the whole person, 
the head being covered with a white hood gathered close about the 
face, which in some cases was masked. On the whole it was a silly . and boyish affair. 
Dr. Nott has been heard from. Last Sunday he attended church 
and made a public prayer, in Phila[delphia]. 
Friday October 14, 1859. This evening we had a call from a Rev. Mr 
Morse of Rahway, N. J., a Baptist Minister and agent for the Baptist 
Publication Society. The occasion of his calling upon us is a sort of 
relationship that exists by reason of his marrying my cousin, Jane 
Libbey, dau[ghter] of Uncle William Libbey of New York. 
Saturday October 15, 1859. Windy and cool tonight. Out to ride with wife in P. M. on the hills north of us in Glenville. .
Mr. Morse proposes to wait over the Sabbath --to preach in the forenoon, presenting his Publication Cause and to go on to Ballston and Saratoga the beginning of the week. He is a plain little man, round-shouldered and somewhat deformed; a good man but I should judge rather slow and easy. 
Sunday October 16,1859. Went to ch. in the forenoon with Mr. Morse who preached a fair sermon on covetousness, and afterwards took a collection for his cause, the Publication Society. 
Monday October 17, 1859. Cool day, wind south prospect for rain. For some days --about a week --my father has been sick with a slow fever accompanied with great prostration. Altho the physician does not say so, I think it is a typhoid fever. This complaint has been somewhat common here this fall altho not fatal in any one instance, I think. Mrs. Judge Wright, áwho is said to to be sick with it, is now thought convalescent. 
Tuesday October 18, 1859. My cousin-in-law Morse still remains weather bound and waiting for the clouds to clear away. Rain commenced last night and continued with intermissions till 12 M. 
The students are getting photographs of senior class and faculty --taken by a young man of Lowell, Mass. Went down to the photographer this P. M., am to call again tomorrow morning. 
News from Dr. N. again today. He mends daily and expects to return soon and resume his duties!! 
Wednesday October 19, 1859. West wind .and cool. Eight -9 o'clock 

A .M. To Hinds' photographic shop to have my portrait taken for the senior class, sat twice and left. 11 o'clock Mr. Morse, my cousin-in.law, left for Ballston and north. I like him pretty well, for altho' a little "Grannyish," his goodness and kindness are enough to overcome any other unfavorable traits. 
The story is rife today that D.M. Chadsey, a lawyer in Scherr., has "failed" and left large demands here for borrowed money unsatisfied. Those who are said to have endorsed or loaned him money are as follows: James R. Craig, $18,000; John Myers, 4,100; John Southard, 1,500; Peter Sanders, 1,500; A. J. Thomson, 800; Levi Young, 50; and others to the amount of $40,000. How much he owes in other places is not known. Besides his legitimate business he has owned a liquor store in New York and a livery stable in Brooklyn. These affairs have embarrassed him or, as some think, the money has been covered up by hocus pocus. 
My sister Magoun came at 12 M and left at 3 P.M. Making a flying visit to see Father, who is slowly recovering. 
Thursday October 20, 1859. Wind N.W. and very cold. Ice has formed 1/8 in. thick this P. M. This morning we hear that Mrs. Judge Wright is dead: she has suffered long and severely and is finally liberated. She was a woman much respected and beloved by those who knew her, of considerable force of character, beauty and elegance of manner. Her maiden name was Woorster; she married a Mr. Bouck of Schoharie by whom she had one son, James, now a young man; after his (Mr. Bs) death she married the present husband, Judge Wright, then of Schoharie. 
Call from Mr. Jno. P. Ostrander now of New York, groceryman. He built the great student boarding house opposite to my house, which he sold and left last January for New York in disgust at the business. 
Friday October 21, 1859. Windy and very cold. 9 o'clock A. M. Called upon Judge Paige on business. Found him confined to his house with an inflamed eye. The deeds to Long Island R.R. Co. and to the 34th St. Ferry Company are not sent, because retained by him for comparison with contracts &c. Tomorrow he promises to have them finished and ready for re-acknowledgement and to be sent to New York. 
The Senior Class are having their portraits taken photographically by a young man from Lowell, Mass. There are about 80 already taken, including the faculty. 
/743 
Saturday October 22, 1859. Cool but clear. Had a talk with Mr. G[ilbert], Secretary of the Board of Trustees, in regard to his copying the minutes of the last three meetings. The facts are these: In 1824 the Board passed a resolution instructing the Clerk of the Bd. to record all reports unless specially excepted. In accordance with this resolution, all the reports of the Treasurer and Librarian from that year to 1856 have been recorded. In the commencement of my acting as Treasurer I came to the resolution of giving all the light upon the finances of College that I possibly could, that the Trustees who had repeatedly complained that they were kept in the dark upon various matters, might act understandingly. A standing resolution of the Board makes it the duty of the Treasurer to print 50 copies of his report for the use of the Board. In 185 2 I began to carry out this very proper order which had hitherto been disregarded. Dr. Nott was very wroth with me for it; nevertheless he could not openly say much against so reasonable a practice. 
My first printed reports consisted only of broadside sheets, showing in tabular form the expenditures and income, and the Balance Sheet for the year. Whatever remarks and suggestions I had to make were written and accompanied the printed portion. In 1857 I made a report showing the gradual falling away of our capital for the last 30 years; this last expose' drawn from former Treasury reports greatly exercised Dr. N. when read before the Bd. and in the excitement of the occasion he remarked that this was not the first occasion that the Treasurer had reported matters that he had not seen!! As tho' forsooth the Treasr. must act only as the Presidents clerk to report what he was told. This report, however, was referred, as all others had been, to the Finance Committee with two extra members added, Mr. Blatchford and Brown. The former remarked that this was the most important announcement that had been made to the Bd. for a long time and merited consideration. He then spoke his honest sentiments. As chairman of the Finance Committee the report was handed to Dr. N. The committee never reported; it was never intended they should; they had never done so before; it would not have been pleasant to have a comm. of the Trustees mousing about in the finances of College. 
When the secretary got ready to write up his minutes, he asked Dr. N. for the Treasurers report. The Dr. remarked that the Committee hadnt reported but that if he could find the report he might record it! Some time after, having occasion to look at it, the paper was nowhere to be found, I remarked to Mr. G. that he had mislaid a part of his minutes, when he stated what Dr. N. had said. For the first time I perceived that a mean trick was to be used to 
17Jf4.
suppress unpalatable facts and I said to Mr. G[ilbert] --that it mattered not if the original was lost, for I had a letter-press copy of it and could reproduce it at any time. In a week after, the original strayed back into its place! The paper was found as soon as its loss (?) would profit nothing in the way of suppressing it. 
In April last the Secretary began to copy his minutes of 1857; instead of inserting the Treasury Report entire he selected only the Balance Sheet &c., leaving all remarks and suggesti[ons] out; and the Librarians report was not copied at all. When the Secretary's attention was called to this, he said the reports had been referred to a committee and never reported back, therefore forsooth he could omit a part or the whole as he pleased! This I met by quoting the resolution of 1824 and said if my Reports were not recorded as all others had been I should appeal to the Board. He then professed himself willing to record the whole, but Dr. N. told him not to! --a pretty secretary of the Board who is really the clerk of Dr. N. and only acts as he is moved by him! 
Sunday October 23, 1859. Fine day. Home all day with wife. Father, who for a fortnight has been housed with a low fever, is no[w] quite recovered --only weak. 
Monday October 24, 1859. Fine day. Mrs. Judge Wright_ was buried on Saturday. Today, Mrs. Dr. Yates, wife of the old Dr Andrew Yates was buried; she was a very aged woman and has been for a long time bedridden. 
Tuesday October 25, 1859. Pleasant day, mild. On the Hill matters are quite monotonous. The bells ring 20 times a day; we go to our recitation rooms and have the usual series of good and bad recitations . That's all --there is not roguery enough to talk about. We are now holding our term examinations so-called for deficiencies by reason of absence or defective preparation for entrance to College. Tonight, languages. 
Wednesday October 26, 1859. Cool. Not a ripple on our affairs on the "Hill" --a dead calm. 
Mrs. N[ott] wrote to Mr. Gilbert that the weather is very fine in Phila. --at no time has the temp. been down to 32 this fall, and the Dr. is enjoying it by daily rides and walks. 
This evening attended the term examination for deficiencies at No. 16 --thin attendance. Examined one in Algebra, and home at 8 o'clock. Contemptible farce! for time out of mind to any of us ----"--.
174~ 
has always found fault with anyone in the faculty who was strict and attempted to "gird up." Foster, who bears the name of being thorough and graduating [grading?] closely has borne his criticising for years. The result is weak, loose scholarship, carelessness in studies, slipshod examinations letting all thro' easy and giving all a diploma at end of course. All improvements for some years back have been made in spite of----"----and his repeated remarks to the contrary. 
Thursday October 27, 1859. Fair fall weather, windy but not too cold. We were this morning startled with the news of the No. River Boat "New World" sinking last night near Yonkers. It was tho't at first that many passengers were lost; subsequent reports however seem to show that few or none were lost. 
Friday October 28, 1859. Fine fall day; called cold, but not to me. Sent for to see Miss Jane Ann McPherson, my neighbor and her "Aunt Jane." Both are feeble and sick -in trouble because their tenant Mr. Kemp is about to leave for New York and they know not where to find so good a one again. 
Saturday October 29, 1859. Fine fall day. This afternoon with wife to ride across the Mohawk at the "Upper Aqueduct" or "Rexford Flats," thence up the river to "Scotia," across the old "Mohawk Bridge" and home. 
Dr. Nott sends a letter, received today by Mr. Gilbert, saying that his health is much better and that he now hopes he has several years of usefulness before him. Remarkable that at the age of 86 yrs. any man should expect some years of labor. 
Sunday October 30, 1859. Fine fall weather, no frost these many days. At home with wife. Father, who has been sick for some weeks, is now recovered --only a weakness remains. 
Monday October 31, 1859. Beckwith, the student who struck Holmes with a cane, having returned to College, has been arrested for assault and battery, and the old wounds are opened afresh. He has the reputation both in Coll. and town of being a fighting man --a bully -.and as such is much disliked, perhaps unjustly. His great h[e]ight and strength may give him a reputation which he does not justly claim. On the the whole it is a pity he has come back to Coll. Quiet would have reigned if he had staid away. 

Tuesday November 1, 1859. Fine fall day, not cold nor clear but cloudy and mild. Ex-Gov. Seymour addressed the Democrats last evening. 
Prof. Gillespie went to N. Y. Friday and returned last night at 12 o'clock. He says his income from his two books --Surveying and Road Making -is now $1,000 pr. year. This is doing well and the sale is increasing. Meeting of Board of Education this evening. 
Last night an effigy of Mr. Gilbert; called Register (The Trustees never appointed such an officer)was hung up in College Chapel. The reason for this meditated insult is a fancied injury done a very few wild young men who suppose he has acted the spy upon their actions. I believe, however, they are mistaken and that nothing of the kind has ever happened. 
Wednesday November 2, 1859. Fine day and mostly clear. This P. M saw S. S. Riggs and found him in bed and looking badly; for more than six months he has been ailing, sometimes with a cold, sometimes with debility, and all this time failing in strength and flesh but not till a fortnight since obliged to keep his bed. No one seems to know what is the matter with him; a loss of blood is the nominal disease, a wasting away of the blood and vital functions. 
In College our trouble at present is the miserable quarrel between Beckwith-and-friends and Holmes-and-friends on account of the fight betw. them some weeks since. The criminal suit commenced is set down for Friday next before our Police Justice. It 
. is doubtful whether it can be postponed or put off --if not, there will be a great excitement on that among the boys both in College and town. 
Thursday November 3, 1859. Fine clear day. At 9 A. M. Mr. Jno. L. Hunnewell of Boston called upon me with an introduction from bro.in-law Magoun. This gentleman, an old friend of his family, is a wealthy retired apothecary engaged in good works of various kinds, among which is the introduction of a preparation of Cannabis Indica for neuralgia and of Sauguinaria Canadensis for coughs. These he has distributed largely among the poor of Boston the last 7 yrs. and now seeks a wider distribution. I called with him on Drs. Wheeler, Vedder and Jones, and upon A. Truax, Apoth[ecary]. He left at 3 o'clock for Troy and Albany. He is a fluent talker, intelligent and a lover of books and learned men. 
Friday November 4, 1859. Fine day."Indian Summer" has began. This morning we hear that Stephen S. Riggs died last night at 1 o'clock. I 
174-7 
have known him these many years as an honest man, honorable and trustworthy in all his dealings and well beloved by all who know him best. He succeeded his father as publisher of the old 11Schenectady Cabinet," but altho a good printer he was a poor business man. Others ran away with the business of the town and left him high and dry without sufficient business to maintain his family. 
Edwd. Magoun came up this evening. The student Beckwith who was to be tried this morning plead[ed] guilty to assault and was fined 25 dolls. The punishment was doubtless well merited: he behaved badly and ruffianly in striking a prostrate foe with a cane over the head. 
Saturday November 5, 1859. Indian Summer continued: the smokiness being .more intense so that the hills west of us cannot be seen: not a breath moves the dried leaf or ruffles the mirror surface of the water. 
To enjoy the few lingering days of summer weather, rode out with wife to "the Aqueduct" or "Rexford Flats," across the Mohawk and down east along the river bank from whence fine views may be had of the water beneath; then returned and passed up the river, crossing "Oilplass" Creek and the river again at the lower bridge called Freeman's. 
Saw Judge Paige this morning; he says Ely and Judson, partners with College in Hunter and Green Points, act badly; for after employing him to manage business with the Long Island R.R. Co., the 34th St. Ferry Co., and N. Y. and Flushing R. Road Co., and when matters were all settled satisfactorily; they fly off and are wholly impracticable. 
Conversed some time with Saml. Jackson of firm of Jackson & Thomson, attornies-at-law, about the claim of Un. College on the estate of Isaac Riggs or on his son, Stephen S., now just dead. The facts in the case are that in 1846, Isaac Rigg by will bequeathed to his son Stephen S. his printing materials and presses in trust to pay off a certain note held against his fa[ther] by U. C. and for certain other purposes S. S. R. has never from the date of his father's death (June 18, 1850) been able to pay this note in full, altho he has reduced it somewhat and kept the interest paid up. The question now comes up: if SSR's creditors are numerous, will the College get the $600 due? Mr. Jackson thinks the College will have the first lien upon the property and if that be not sufficient can come back upon, Is. Riggs property, of which a sufficiency remains in the widow's hands. 
Three o'clock P. M. Attended S. S. Riggs funeral. A large 
174-rl 
number of citizens were present. Being a Mason the Lodge in Schen. turned out. 
Sunday November 6, 1859. A beautiful, mild, clear day. At home with wife all day. 
Monday November 7, 1859. Weather ditto. Mr. C. W. A. Herrmann, who has been our Asst. Curator of Museum for the past year, is about to leave for want of support. He is an old gentleman, a German and mineral-dealer; here of course he finds no encouragement. College is able only to pay him $100 for two afternoons work pr. wk. He returns to N. Y. where he has son's-in-law. 
Edward Magoun,, who came up Friday evening, left this morning for home. 
Tuesday November 6, 1859. Beautiful day, a perfect specimen of Indian Summer. Election quiet and without much interest. The long drought has dried up many wells and cisterns. Already the students are moving for leave to close the session before "Thanksgiving Day" on the 24th inst. 
Wednesday November 9, 1859. Weather continues warm and hazy. Election has passed off with very little interest on the part of Electors. It is only once in four years that voters can be called out in force. It seems to be conceded that the Republicans have carried the state as usual. 
The "Harper's Ferry affair" and trials of Jno. Brown and his associates afford some talk among the people, and some occasion for politicians to "manufacture capital." This mad project, altho a failure, does not fail to excite great interest among the slave-owners in the Border States. It only shows what danger lies in either an insurrection among their slaves or in an attack from hairbrained abolitionists. 
Thursday November 10, 1859. Fine day but foggy, smoky, &c. The phases of Election as talked about in gossip, but not loudly published, are the most interesting part of it. One person says that Judge S's friend (Jacob perhaps) raised $2000 to spend in his re-election and that it was paid out at the rate of $5 and $10 pr. voter. After all, he lost his election. He rode or rather attempted to ride the Know Nothing horse and the Democratic horse at the same time, and failed of both as it often happens. Formerly he was a "Whig." When the "Know Nothing" movement commenced, he joined that party and by it rode into power, or rather place: [a] County judgeship. Hoping to retain his place he procured nomination of both the aforesaid parties and fail'd from defection. To the Democrats he said, "Hereafter I shall adopt the Democratic principles." To the Know Nothings he said, "I am an 'American,' and cleave to the party." 
New York City Friday November 11, 1859. In accordance with an arrangement with Judge Paige, I went to New York this afternoon for the purpose of once more executing the deed and contracts between Long Island R. 
R. Co. and the proprietors of Hunter Point. Starting at 3 P.M. I arrived at St. Nicholas Hotel a little before 10 o'clock. Found this somewhat noted house much less crowded than it was in August, and was able to get a room and bed. 
New York and Home Saturday November 12, 1859. Dull, cloudy, and threatening rain all day. 9 o'clock started from St. Nicholas, and on my way down to Wall St. called upon F. J. Hosford at 57 and 59 William St. At 10 o'clock met Judge P. at 58 Wall St., the office of Weeks & Deforrest, attornies for Long Island R. Road Co. The parties concerned were: on the part of the R.R., Wm E. Morris, Pres. of Co., Coffin Colket of Phila., Willard of N. Y., the last two, the Grantees for the R. Road; and on the part of Hunter Point Proprietors Judge Paige, H. D. Anable, agent &c. and myself. After a long comparison of papers, they were pronounced complete and were executed by me on behalf of College; but when Mr. Anable went out for Judson and Ely they could not be got. The former was not to be found and the latter would not act without sanction of his father, who is now out of town. Three o'clock, called at American Express Co.s House in Hudson St. and saw Willard and Holland. 
5 o'clock Started for home, where arrived at 12 o'clock without accident. Found that rain, snow and sleet had fallen here all day. 
Sunday November 13, 1859. Cool wind west, with snow squall near night. At home all day with wife. 
Monday November 14, 1859. Cool and wintry. Letter today from Dr. Nott on business. He writes again with a firm hand and is evidently much better than he was some months back. 
Tuesday November 15, 1959. Fine day. Another unpleasant newspaper contest about Union College is now going on in the 
17ft) 
newspapers. It originated on this wise: Rev. C. Van Rensselaer D.D. of Philadelphia, Sec. of the Pres[byterian] Educ. Soc., some weeks since came this way to confer with the 9 beneficiaries of his B[oar]d. in College. He remained over Sunday and at evening prayers slipped into College Chapel and witnessed the services. He went away without making himself known and in the next weeks' "Pres.byterian" newspaper appeared a letter from him in which he criticises the Sunday services not only but gives a fling at Dr. Hickok and his books. This very unwise --impolitic, not to say improper -.intermeddling with an institution in which he feels no interest of course could not remain unanswered. To which the Reve[rend] Gentlemen from Philadelphia replies and if possible makes matters still worse. Other answers are written, and unfortunately Dr Backus' name gets mixed up with the scrimmage. Tonight in the "Star" he answers the unfriendly attack by hitting back upon the writer who signs himself "Old School" (probably Dr. Lewis). 
Wednesday November 16, 1859. The principal matter of conversation today is the conflict men~ioned yesterday betw. Drs. Backus and Lewis. Its a pity that such a scandal should arise, and upon so slender a foundation as a gossiping letter written in haste and perhaps without any mal[i]ce and evil-intent. Meeting Dr. B. to.day on a matter of business, he spoke of the subject and deeply regretted Rev. Dr. Van Rensselaer's foolish letter which, altho' without any thought of consequences, he had published and very unpleasantly involved him (B.) 
B[ackus] is undoubtedly sore from last summer's contest in which he was made to bear very much of the odium due to the determined opposition to Dr. Hickok. As Dr. Lewis was H's champion with pen and tongue, it could not be but he should come in conflict with B. more or less: and especially may it be inferred that these men must differ widely when it is known that Dr. B. professes not to come into L[ewis] 's plan of settlement which so fully met the approbation of Dr. Nott and some of his friends. This holding off of Dr. 
B. has offended L. and his friends and especially as it latterly appeared that Dr. N. began to retract and sympathise with B[ackus] and his friends. There [are] no doubt great faults on both sides. L. is nervous, sometimes unreasonable, but in the main fair and thoroughly honest. B[ackus], on the other hand, can be severe if called out and under. great provocation will not restrain his pen or tongue more than another man. It is to be feared that this war partakes somewhat of a theological character and a denominational spirit. The "Old School" of Presbyterianism is pitted against the "New 
17S-l 
School"; the ill blood shows itself more and more. Every contest 
brings out this fact, and when this war of sects becomes general, if it ever does, U. C. will suffer still more. 
Thursday November 17, 1859. Beautiful day, mild and springlike, 
wind south. 
Tonight Dr. Backus answers Dr. L's newspaper article of yesterday. This whole affair is nothing but a personal quarrel in which the public takes no interest and from which no good can arise. It is too boyish: to see two Drs. of Div. and Laws pitting themselves against each other like pugilists for the amusement of an admiring populace is humiliating. One cannot but wonder at the small portion of good sound wisdom and common sense displayed by wise men (so-called) when their passions are aroused or their feelings are_ enlisted. 
Prof. J[asckson] is of course much agitated and threatens aloud to publish in the New York Tribune his long list of opinions upon Dr. Hickok's Cosmology if Dr. Lewis does not hold his tongue and stop ranting against the Baconian Philosophy. This list he says is already in print. It consists of the letters which he has received from different Professors in answer to applications made by him for their opinions upon this book. It was expected that this array of criticisms would be laid before the Board of Trustees at their last meeting, but it was found by Dr. Hickok's opponents that their purpose could not be attained thereby and the paper was reserved. 
Mrs. Jno. H. Edmunds of Utica and little son came to our house this afternoon. 
Friday November 18, 1859. Foggy till noon and rainy the rest of the day. It is hoped that the Backus and Lewis war has ceased; the party last assaulted has made no rejoinder today, a favorable symptom. 
Mrs. Edmonds and son "Watty" went to Ballston at 12 o'clock M. to call upon Mrs. Tully, returned at 5 o'clock and at 6.40 left for home, accompanied by our John and Willie for a three days visit . 
This P.M. we had the usual turmoil and strife in the "Senate" about the election of officers. Dr. Hickok, the President of it, presided but finding no means of reducing the turbulent mob to order he dismissed them. It may be stated as a settled truth that College elections of every kind are a nuisance which sooner or later must be abated. Today the contest was between those who belonged to secret societies and those who are either neutral or opposed to them. The latter having a clear majority of ten, the opposing set worked for a postponement of the election until next session, hoping by that time to obtain a majority for their party. To accomplish this project all the usual parliamentary tricks and tactics were resorted to and, when it came to the crisis, cries and yells and singing were used to drown all voices and prevent business. It was in the midst of this confusion that Dr. H. sent them off. The "Senate" is simply a debating [group?] consisting of the Senior Class, conducted according to parliamentary usuage, and presided over by the Vice Pres. of College or by a temporary chairman of the class. 

Saturday Novemberl 9, 1859. Rain in torrents last night and today. In Treasury Office all day writ[ing] dunning letters --the most uninteresting of drudgery. The only new phase of the Backus and Lewis controversy is an editorial in .the "Morning News," calling both to account for their silly quarrel and advising both to withdraw from the "ring" as only the bruisers of the city feel any but a melancholy interest in the "Mull." Bating a little pertness and impudence, the article is quite passable for the News. 
Dr. Hickok showed me a letter yesterday from Dr. Nott in which he complains that no one has written to him since he left home about the affairs of College, and advising that the editors of the Schenectady papers be requested not to publish any squibs about College as they are quoted into other papers and send abroad what is harmless at home but hurtful abroad where such things fall into unfriendly hands. All very true, it would be well if our daily papers in their dearth for items would forage on other grounds, and not detail, with additions, the little pranks of college boys. 
Sunday November 20, 1859. Wind west, high and cold. Home with wife. Read a sermon of H. W. Beecher in last Independent and another by Spurgeon in the N. Y. Observer, both good sermons. 
Monday November 21, 1859. Fair fall day, hardly cold enough to freeze. On Saturday night got the Resident Trustees together at Dr. Backus' study at 8 o'clock. Present: Dr. Backus, Judge Paige, C. R. Cochrane. This is the first meeting they have had in many months, in years, so far as I remember, and notwithstanding this fact and that I had a budget of items for them, barely a half hour could be spared! 
1. The first matter of discussion was the matter of a fence from the front College gate to South College and from North College to the Brook. This was ordered built under superintendence of Treasurer, and advice of Dr. Backus and Judge Paige. It is was also suggested that the persons interested directly, viz. Drs. Nott, Lewis and Hickok, who have gardens there (betw. S[outh] C[ollege] and the gate) should 
/ 7f3 
be consulted as to the kind of fence. 2. I asked advice also in regard to an account of A. J. Thomson with College. He charges for law lectures more than it is thought he was promised and more than covers a College demand against him for tuition when a student in College. The Res. Trust. thought he should call the account even, i.e. that the one should balance the other. 3. I also presented a matter of Mr. P. I. Clute, who claims a release from a certain clause inserted in deeds of all lots sold by College on the North of Union Street, limiting the building line of said lots so far from the street as to leave a courtyard in front. The lot in question lies next to the Columbian Hotel, corner of Union St. and Romeyn St., and the building line is about 50 or 60 ft. back from the street. Mr. C. claims that Mr. Holland granted him the right to build on the street which it appears he did do, provided C. bought the s[ai]d lot of Russell Rogers within one year from May 1849: doubtful whether this condition was fulfilled. The Res. Trust. asked that this point be looked into. 4. Asked also the opinion of the Trustees upon the resolution of the Board granting 25 dollars worth of repairs upon professors houses pr. an[num] under the direction of the Registrar. The Res. Trust. emphatically gave it as their opinion that the resolution should be confined to necessary repairs and that these should be first ordered by Treasurer. 
Today a majority of College has disappeared and I am told that more, if not all, will go tomorrow. This evening 4 to 5 o'clock P. M. held faculty meeting in back Treasury Office and present: Dr. Hickok, Vice Pres., Drs. Jackson, Gillespie, Foster, Newman, Peissner, Pearson, Tutor Gordon. 
1. The first matter discussed was the dismissing of College. Dr. 
H. announced that all but 5 7 had had permission to leave College and go home to Thanksgiving, and wished to know if we should keep on or close up. Voted to keep on. 2. The question whether graduations should [be] made for students who have left and before they shall be examined, and voted that they shall be made. 3. Then came up the matter of Chemical Lectures next session --whether they should be given to the Senior or Junior Class: Voted that the latter shall have them. Then adjourned to meet next Friday evening. 
Tuesday November 22, 1859. Last night 3 inches of snow fell and lay all day, a mass of water and slush. More of the students have left for home today, and tomorrow bids fair to end all our recitations for this session. 
Some days since I offered a reward of $5 for two huge square.posted oak chairs constructed in 1851 by my order for Rooms Nos. 4 and 5, South Colonnade and some time since removed by students to rooms in town probably. One of them was brought back this morning 

by a small squad of the Junior Class, and the reward was claimed for 
it by Warner and Clizbe, a committee of said class. 
The history of the affair, as I have learned it from Dr. H[ickok] and them is as follows: Sometime since, the Juniors played a trick upon a Sophomore by taking one of them and performing a mock trial upon him. This was resented by the Sophs as a class and preparations made by them to retaliate; a club was formed and a room in town procured where meetings were held. Among other things a coffin was procured in which a part of the ceremonies was to be performed by the unfortunate Junior. Into this room our big oak chair of number 5 was carried to serve as the chair of state of the Sophomore Club. The Juniors by hook or crook discovered their room and the contents; they removed and hid the chair and coffin, and this morning marched in procession with both thro' the town to the "Hill," and smashing the latter, delivered the former into Boss 'Reagles' hands. 
Unfortunately our newspaper war, which it was supposed had ceased by the close of the Lewis and Backus combat in the "Evening Star," is again most unbecomingly opened anew by Rev. C. Van Rensselaer of Philadelphia, who now writes his 3d. letter --an uncalled-for attack upon not only Dr. Lewis but also upon Dr. Hickok's book. Strange what small things so-called great men can do! What mean things they can do! What unhandsome things! and unchristian! This repeated intermeddling with Un. Coll. and its affairs, with its Vice Pres. and Professors, is a lamentable example of bad feeling and pique. It is simply a war upon Dr. H[ickok] who, he says in so many words, cannot be the next President of Union College! 
Wednesday November 23, 1859. Pretty fair fall weather: not freezing; most of yesterday's snow is gone. Both of my Conics Classes, numbering at the beginning of the session more than 60 persons, is now reduced to 6 --and on Friday I am told 3 or more of these will be gone. It is doubtful whether we can raise enough to go thro' the form of examination next week. 
Dr. Lewis is sick; bad cold and pain in lungs. Old Mrs. Jackson, Professors' mother now near 90 years of age, is also quite feeble. The younger Mrs. J[ackson], wife of the Professor, is sick of pleurisy. Decay and disease are written upon us all. The old must die, the young may and often do: no estate is exempt. Sorrow is our lot; pain and anguish are the daily food of us all. How then should we rejoice that above these low regions of sorrow and áimperfection there is a brighter where none of these things will reach us. 

In anticipation of Thanksgiving our market is glutted today with poultry: It is selling for 8 cts pr. lb. Saw for a few moments Dr. Backus at his house; where he showed me his new steam-heating apparatus called Gold's Steam Heater, of Connecticut. 
Thursday November 24, 1859. Fine cool day; clear bracing air. 
As this is Thanksgiving Day --no exercises at College. Altha' there was religious services in town, did not attend but staid at home with wife. Thanksgiving dinner with our own family, Fa[ther] and Mo[ther] Pearson and Mr. Harvey. God grant we may see many more and be thankful for them all. 
The boys and our two girls (Rosa and Ellen Corrigan) attended the concert of singing children at 2nd Dutch Church --the pupils of Miss Evans, sing[ing]-teacher in this city. 
Friday November 25, 1859. College is dull enough. Not more than 3 or 4 dozen remain of our 300 students and these are only half.hearted in their duties because they stay.only on compulsion and not of good will. My own opinion is that we should arrange our college session in the Fall so as either to close it before Thanksgiving or to include Thanksgiving near its middle, then there could be no excuse for breaking up the session. 
Saturday November 26, 1859. I hear that the war has broke out again in a new spot --between Dr. Lewis and ----"----, who has written a somewhat sharp letter to him from Phila. respecting the late "spat" between him (L.) and Backus and C. Van Rensselaer. L[ewis] promises to answer ----"----'s letter in full and frankly; holding back nothing which he feels that----"----ought to know. 
Sunday November 27, 1859. Last evening we held a faculty meeting in Treas. office and arranged for examinations on Monday. All classes to be examined at once and to be dismissed by 4 o'clock P.M. At home all day with wife: read H. W. Beechers sermon in the "Independent." As efforts of genius, these productions far surpass those of Spurgeon, altho the latter are more evangelical and practical. 
Monday November 8, 1859. College is dismissed. Prof. Lewis tells me he is now preparing a long answer to ----"----'s letter to him, a letter that will fill 6 sheets closely. He feels sore at the attitude taken and now held by----"----, which is no less than that the settlement last July, which was considered final, is nothing more than a truce, and that Hickok's election to the Presidency is contingent. To this Dr. 

L. demurs because it is so different from ----"----'s former statement to him. L. says now that he has no longer my confidence in him. 
Prof. G[illespie] says he has reason to think that there is to be an effort made to place Bp. A[lonzo] Potter in the Chair as Pres. of 
U.C. He also thinks that Dr B[ackus] would not decline the office and that his friends would powerfully push his name for it. Dr. H[ickok], who has read L's answer, says it is just the thing; nothing about it too sharp or severe. 
Judge Paige called on Saturday night and gave me some account of Lowber's plea for not paying his $40,000 bond and mortgage to College; and gave me a list of papers which he desired copied to make his answer to Lowber. 
Saturday P. M. at 4. o'clock was buried my neighbor Hoag's _ youngest son, aged 4 y[ears]. He died of the prevailing throat distemper. 
Tuesday November 29, 1859. Dr. Lewis came into Treas. off. this morning with his famous answer to----"----. It consists of 24 pp. of close writing, all of which I had to copy for him by the letter-press! 
Dr. H[ickok] tells me he will sometime read me Dr. N.'s letter to him and his answer, wh[ich] he says is short and sweet. Prof. G[illesp[ie] is inclined to side for H[ickok] now altho' last summer he was pretty strongly opposed; he says if he thought Backus would be the Pres. candidate in case of H's rejection, he certainly would go for 
. H[ickok]. If B. should become Pres. he certainly would leave, for he does not like him at all: some years since they had a flare-up and have had little or no intercourse since. 
Fence from North College to brow of hill descending into the Creek finished today. Closed up Colleges this P. M. Old Mrs. Jackson, Prof. j's. mother, near 90 áyrs. of age, is now very low with old age. 
C. Reagles, who has been about "College Hill" more than 40 yrs., says that the occupants of the house North End of North College have been 
1. Dr. Macauly, 2. Joel R. Nott, 3d. Prof Jackson. Of South End of North College 1. Dr. Yates, 2 Prof. B. F. Joslin, 3 Prof. Thos. C. Reed, 4 Prof. Jno. Newman; of N. End of South College, 1 Dr. Nott; 2 Prof A. Potter; 3 Dr. Nott again 4 Dr. Hickok. Of South End of South Coll. 1 Dr. Brownell; 2 Dr. Proudfit; 3 Dr. J. A. Yates; 4 Dr T. Lewis. Of house in Colonnade back of N. End of So. Coll. 1. Prof. A. Potter; 2 Howard Nott and Dr. Nott; 3. Alex. Holland; 4 J. Pearson; 5 Jno. Newman and Dr. Nott; 6 Dr. Nott. 
/70 
Wednesday November 30, 1859. Beautiful day. Like Indian summer. This áP.M. received letter from Dr. N. in answer to mine to him on three points. 1. What kind of a fence will you have in front of your garden, between So. Coll. and front gate? Would you prefer a six-foot close fence? 2. Shall Treasurer's Reports and Librarians reports be copied into minutes entire? --non committal. 3. Does the $500 paid Dr. Jackson for College garden include all expenses such as fences etc.? --non committal. But on the triangular quarrel between Drs. Van Rensselaer, Backus and Lewis he is pretty severe for him. He is amazed after the armistice of last summer to find any College officer opening again the former difficulty and thinks it will be quite disastrous to those engaged in it. The word armistice here, used twice in his letter, is the source of the present difficulty as between Dr. Lewis and Drs. Backus and Nott. For, as L. says, Dr. N. made a full and final peace in the matter at Commencement; but now endeavors to draw back and place H[ickok] upon his good behavior in regard to his prospects for the Presidency. This irritates him badly and sets him fully against all concerned. 
Thursday December 1, 1859. Rain more or less all day. Dr. H. read his recent correspondence with Dr. N. The last letter of Dr. N. to him and the reply related cheifly to the late dispute in the newspapers betw. the Doctors, and was in most respects similar to the one he sent to me. Dr. H. feels very much as Dr. L. does --that Dr. N.'s friends, who attack him (H.) openly or covertly, are not sufficiently held back and influenced to keep the peace; but on the contrary, knowing that their opposition and criticism are both palatable to the powers that be, continue to show their ill feeling in various ways. 
Friday December 2, 1859. Rain all day. Old Mrs. Jackson, mother of the Professor, died last night. She lived till near 90 yrs. of age. For many years she has lived here with her son but has seldom been seen out of the house to which she has been latterly confined by feeble health. Her religious belief was that of the Friends or Quakers and her dress was such as they adopt. Rode to the Cemetery this 
P. M. with Professor J[ackson] and selected a burial lot near our dear boy's resting place, for his mother. This is upon College land just over the brook on the north side. it is probably temporary, as in case of our having a College Cemetery we shall remove our dead to it. 
Saturday December 3, 1859. During the night a sudden change of wind from south to north brought intense cold with it, and this morning our windows were covered with ice and on the north side continued to beáall day. 

Old Mrs. Jackson was buried at 3 o'clock, funeral services at the house at 2 by Rev. Dr Seelye of the Dutch Ch. in the absense of Rev. Dr Backus. Owing to the intense cold but few persons were out to the funeral. The six Professors present were bearers, viz. Drs. Hickok and Lewis, Profs. Foster, Peissner, Newman, and self. 
Rev. Mr. Day at the funeral told me of the expulsion of D. Heagle, graduate of last class ( 1859) from South Carolina whence he had gone to teach. He wrote to him this fact but had not time to give particulars. What a phase of slavery! that a peaceful, quiet, religious man cannot be tolerated merely because he hails from the North. Such a state of things cannot exist long; it would be far better for South and North to seperate peacefully than to live together in such a stateá of turmoil. 
Sunday December 4, 1859. Six inches of snow fell last night and the storm continues thro' the day. Home all day with wife. 
Monday December 5, 1859. Mild, snow melting into "slush" and water. Called upon Judge Paige: he announced a new obstacle in the suit with Lowber. Mr. Brown, who became the holder of Lowber's 40,000 dollar mortgage, now says he cannot find any instructions among his private papers whatever. I gave the package sealed to Dr. Nott, March 8, '59, directed to Brown & Wood with directions to deliver the same to Mr. James Brown. If therefore he can make affidavit that he did deliver the same to B[rown] unopened, the latter may slip thro' and relieve himself of responsibility. Wrote to Dr. N. to know whether he delivered the package and if he can testify to his having done so. Strange man! he never toutches a matter of business without complicating it so that failure is almost sure to follow. 
Albany and Union College Tuesday December 6, 1859. 8 o'clock A. M. Went to Albany to see 
G. L. Wilson, Executor of J. C. Spencer's will, for the purpose of copying certain letters and papers appertaining to the transactions between Lowber, Dr. Nott, and Union College. Copied half a dozen papers comprising 10 folio, and finished only in time to reach the train leaving at 12.30 P. M. for the west. These papers were all written in 1854 and consist of letters, a requisition, contracts &c. 
Home at 1.20 P.M. and found Fa[ther] Harvey, who has just returned from New York and the South where he left the whole population up in arms with excitement and wrath caused by the John Brown invasion, and by the running away of negroes, the burning of stacks and outbuildings. He says no one who has not been there can tell the intense hatred of the North and jealousy of all persons who claim a northern parentage. Some are warned to leave and get away with a whole skin, some are imprisoned without trial or privilege of a hearing, and others are subjected to whipping, riding upon a rail, and tar-and-feathers. What will be the end! What can be more desirable than a peaceful seperation of North and South! 

Rain at 5 o'clock P. M., wind south and warm, snow melting rapidly. 
Wednesday December 7, 1859. South wind, warm, snow mostly gone. Tonight wind north, colder and some snow. Dr. Lewis dropped into Treas. office and in his characteristic way commenced his remarks on men and things. 1 Showed me a copy of his new work just published called the "Divine in Human, " a theological work. 2. On learning that Fernando Wood was elected Mayor of New York yesterday, he says, "He is a fit representative of N. Y." --is glad that Tammany Hall is humbled and that before a year he will be in full communion and leader of Tammany. 3. He says that his long letter got to Philadelphia, but that Dr. Nott has not seen it yet nor does he think he will see it because Mrs. N. wrote that the Dr. (N.) was nervous and she had not shown it to him. 
This, says L., is always the way. The Dr. will write letters to others of an irritating character but none written in answer must be shown him. (But perhaps, after all, Dr. N. is not yet in a fit state to be excited by unpleasant words, althb at his leisure he may say or write without injury to himself what is unpleasant to others.) L. complains of C. Van Rensselaer's letters as being silly, boyish, in collusion with 
B. (Dr. B[ackus]), who was malignant in his letters. L. says he wont keep still when attacked by Princeton: U. C. has attacked no one else, sees no reason for this war upon her by Princeton. 
This evening another squib appears in the Evening Star from 
C. V. R. (Rev. Cortland Van Rensselaer of Philadelphia) attacking Dr. Hickok's book over Dr. Lewis' shoulders. This, more than anything have seen, points at the true source of facts and the evil influence. In this letter C.V.R. quotes a list of opinions from professors of colleges in condemnation of Dr. Hickok's "Cosmology." This list came from Prof. J[ackson] of U. C. who last summer very industriously applied to all the neighboring institutions for certificates adverse to H's book, and intended to lay the same before the Board of Trustees but was persuaded out of it by Dr. N. and agreed: on condition that H[ickok] would not use his book as a text-book he would withdraw his charges and keep quiet. Evidently his compact has been broken in spirit, for he has communicated to Van Rensselaer to be used against 

H. what he promised should not be used. This conduct of j's is most iniquitous and ungentlemanly. The old saying is true in this case -."It is a foul bird that dirties its own nest." 
Meeting of Board of Education. All present but Vandebogart and Dr. Backus, who is away at Philadelphia, they say, looking after a pulpit. 
Thursday December 8, 1859. Cold clear wintry day. 11 o'clock A. M. Called on Judge Paige and delivered copies of letters, papers, &c. to the amount of 85 pages which I have made from originals in the Treasury office, and from papers in the hands of G. L. Wilson, Executor of J. C. Spencer. He returned from New York yesterday where he went on the Lowber business. He brought back the pleadings of Lowber's lawyer --300 folios --and left them with the Misses Palmer to be copied: afterwards I shall attempt to make a press copy to be kept in the Treas. office .. 
Letter from Bro.-in-law Magoun inviting us to come down, which we intend to do tomorrow .. 
Dr. Lewis is out with another letter tonight -in the "Star" newspaper, in answer to C. V .R., all folly --undignified and wrong for two such grave Doctors. 
Hudson, N. Y. Friday December 9, 1859. 8 o'clock A.M. with wife started for Albany and Hudson. In A[lbany] we staid till 10.40 and then reached Hudson at 12 M. by Hudson R[iver] R. R. Found the river full of floating and solid ice and the navigation ended for the season. Railroad travelling has its advantages of speed and safety and comfort; also its disadvantages: dust, dirt and bad air. The last is almost insufferable; to be sealed up for hours in a box with SO to 60 other persons breathing the same air again and again, mixed with the reekings and effuvia of dirty bodies and foul breaths all cooked to 7 5 ¡ by a red-hot monster called a stove --it is too much for anyone to endure unless he be a hog. This same want of ventillation is seen and felt in our private houses, churches and public rooms: pure air is sacrificed for warm air; we heat our houses economically and comfortably but in do soing, we do not ventilate them. There must be a change --a return to fire places and grates. 
17~J 
Hudson 
Saturday December 10, 1859. Sometime since my bro-in-law 
Magoun disclosed to me a a sad piece --no less than that my sister 
Mary Ann has [become?] afflicted with an incurable cancer in the 
right breast. It has been increasing in size for many months and has 
now acquired the size of a pint bowl, hard and painful. Many 
physicians have been consulted and but one opinion is expressed -.
that her case is hopeless. No human aid can save her, and probably 
she will soon succumb to the dreadful disease. 
How mysterious is this providence! To all human appearance no woman was more healthy; she has been a picture of health for years, but in the midst of her hopeful promise for long and useful life, insidious disease destroys all our pleasant' dreams. May God reconcile us to his afflictive dispensations and prepare us for the dead summons which will soon be sent for us! .
Sunday December 11, 1859. Cold, windy and unpleasant. In house all day with wife. Among other readings found the Haldanes' lives pleasant and edifying. They were men at great self-sacrifice and ***** labors. For men of their standing and prospects in the world to forsake ease and self-indulgence and become travelling preachers is an unusual spectacle. 
Union College Monday December 12, 1859. Started from Hudson at 11.15 A.M. for home and arrived there without anything unusual at 1.20 P.M. The most unpleasant part of the journey is crossing the river at Albany. The floating ice and raw winter wind make the ferry anything but pleasant. All well at home. 
Tuesday December 13, 1859. The coldest night of the season was the last. Today wind south and temperature milder. Dr. Hickok goes tomorrow with wife to Bethel, Conn. where her mother, an aged infirm woman, resides. Speaking today of the letter written by me to ----"----asking his testimony as to the delivery to Jas. Brown Esqr. of the copy of instructions accompanying Lowber bond and mortgage of $40,000, March 9 or 10, 1857, H[ickok] thinks he will not say a word about it unless obliged to do so; and his silence seems to favor this idea. Doubtless he would like to have the $40,000 paid to Coll. but he cannot well afford to disoblige Lowber and he dislikes to testify against Brown's interest; moreover he is not suffered, or does not trust himself, to do anything without the advice of C. N. Potter who is also J. B[rown]s lawyer. All these [these] things look 

bad for the ultimate payment of the money to U. C. Possibly however ----"-..:__,s evidence may be dispensed with. 
3 o'clock P. M. Called upon Judge P. who said that he saw Edw. Crane yesterday in Albany. E. C. told him that Crane, Ely & Judson, joint owners with U. C. of Hunter and Green Points, desire a division of the property. Judge P. said that he thought the Coll. Trustees and Dr. N. would object as being contrary to their interests, altho' if the partners insisted upon it of course it must be done. He also stated that if a partition were made some one of the partners might get the better of the others by selling out before them, to which E. C. said that it would be well for College if it went to sleep and did not sell any thing for years, for the lots were worth more than money at 7% int. It is seemed [seen?] to be a favorable view of the matter and Judge P. was rather taken by it. E. C. also stated that the proprietors of Long Is. R. Road and Flushing R. Road were about to settle their differences by the former buying out the latter; Charlick, Law & Co who own the Flushing going into the Long Island as part pro.prietors and by uniting with a contemplated Road farther east, make a route from New York to Boston 60 mi. shorter than any other route. 
All this grand plan may come about, but it should be observed that altho E. C. is smooth and plausible, he is also visionary. He has made and lost several fortunes and moreover has not escaped some breath of moral taint in some of R. Road operations. Judge P. goes down Friday to attend to the interests of U. C. in these matters. As to ----"----'s testimony in the matter of delivery to Jas. Brown of the letter of Instructions respecting the Lowber mort[gage], the Judge thinks he may be able to prove the thing in another way. For example, in July 1858 at the Annual meeting of Trustees, Chane. Walworth called upon Judge P. to state as one of the Finance Com. what had become of the bond and mortgage of Lowber. The judge stated in presence of Jas. Brown and Dr. N. that the former had suffered the mortgage [to] be cancelled of record contrary to written instructions and that by so doing he had made himself liable for the 40,000 dolls. and that U. C. would look to him for the payment of it. To all which altho' present he [Brown] said not a word, thereby admitting the truth of the charge. Afterwards also in Dr. Nott's study in presence of B R. Wood Judge P., Dr. Nott and myself I heard him say he would pay this mortgage and bond to College, and that he would give U. C. a mortgage on the same property. 
For several days the Miss Palmer's have been copying Lowber's long pleading in the case of Interpleader originated by Jas. Brown to obtain a decision of the court as to the ownership of the Lowber bond and mortgage. There are about 130 pp. of it. From their copy I have made a press copy to be kept in Treasury office. Tomorrow we are to compare copy with original. á On reading this pleading today. there is but one conclusion to be arrived at -áeither ----"----was a tricky, slipperyman or L --has lied outrageously. Poverty they say makes strange bedfellows -so does the desire or love of money. To get more, men often shipwreck a reputation or degrade it to the verge of rascality. 

Prof. J[ackson] called in this P. M. and talked an hour on the old subject --Hickok and his book, Lewis and C.V.R. &c. J. of course professes to be only influenced by a love for truth in science and in his department of it, having no prejudice whatever against H.! He feels quite indignant that L. should continue to blaze away against 
C.V.R.and the Baconian Philosophy, says L. and he agreed last summer to hold back any farther facts from the public and from the Trustees and to cultivate peace --that he (J.) has fulfilled his part of the compact but that L. has not. &c&c. "When Doctors disagree &c." A most unprofitable contest in which the love of truth has little to do. 
Wed.nesday December 14, 1859. Mr. Gilbert and self all day comparing copy of Lowber's pleading with original. There is nearly 
150 pp. foolscap of it. Tiresome reading it was. 
Sarah Harvey, wife's half-sister, has now been sick again for some weeks. What is the matter no one knows. Dr. Hickok and wife left this morning for Conn. 
Thursday December 15, 1859. Fine cold winter day. Today delivered to Judge the copy of Lowber's pleading in the case of James Brown vs. Un. Coll., R. W. Lowber & Pyne. Also handed him the original pleading. He showed me a letter from Edwd. Crane inviting him to come down tomorrow to meet Crane & Ely on business relating to the Hunter Point property, the Long Island & Flushing Rail Roads &c. Judge P. said it might be proper for me also to go down and that if he found it needful for me to do so he would telegraph me on Saturday. 
Called upon Hinds, Photographer, to engage him to take pictures of fa[ther], mo[ther] and the boys Willie and John. 
Friday December 16, 1859. Un. College Bright cold day. Commenced this morning Report to Regents of Univ. of N. Y. 
"C.V.R." is out again with a letter against Drs. Lewis and Hickok --a silly, impudent production which Dr. L. says he will not answer --a good resolution. 

Saturday December 17, 1859. Fine day. Tonight wind east with prospects of snow. This forenoon Dr. Lewis called at Treas. office complaining of dyspepsia and general debility --he looks pale, thin and haggard. The Dr. is of a highly nervous temperament, and apparently not a long-lived person. Alluding to his late discussion with "C.V.R." he says [he] will not answer again. 
Jonas Rockefellar living on a "sand farm" 5 miles south of Schen. called to get an additional loan of $1000 on his farm. Finished my report to Regents of Univ. of State of N. Y. today and commenced copying it into Letter Book. 
A letter from Dr. Nott today and note from Mrs. N. in which she asks that, if I write again on business to him, no unpleasant subject be introduced as it disturbs him much. 
Mo[ther] and boys had their pictures taken today by Hinds, Daguerrean, of St[ate] Street. 
Sunday December 18, 1859. At home with wife. Read the religious (?)newspapers, and Kitts' History of Palestine, a useful and interesting abstract. The more one knows of the History of the Jews, the less he is disposed to esteem them, and the mystery is that a people so favored as they should have shown no higher tone of morals and religious perfection. 
Monday December 19, 1859. Snowed a little yesterday, with rain and c[old]. Mild today --snow, what little there is, melting fast. 
Finished copying Regent's Report today and handed it to Dr. Backus to read over. I asked him how Dr. Nott was when he saw him in Philadelphia; he said a little the worse for a cold and for some irritation occasioned by the news of this unhappy dispute between 
C.V.R.and Dr. Lewis. B. thinks Dr. L. has done very wrong to answer 
C.V.R.at all and much more to answer him in so ungentlemanly a manner; in fine, B. intimates that L. has not always stuck to the truth! How different things look to different persons! To C.V.R. and Dr B., L's conduct has been anything but gentlemanly. To Dr. L. theirs have been the same. And yet these all are gentlemen of good talents, and nice discrimination usually in all ordinary matters of business where these feelings are not warped or prejudices awakened --then they arrive at no surer conclusion than men of ordinary education and standing. 
Dr. B. also showed me his new "Gold's steam-heating apparatus" for house just now introduced. It seems to work well and to be very manag[e]able. It is undoubtedly a very economical method of heating. One defect however it has. There is no ventilation such as every house ought to have. 

Tuesday December 20, 1859. Snow all day -a damp snow which sticks to everything and makes all the trees look white. All day in office at ordinary office work. 
Dr. Lewis read me a letter of about 12 pp. which he has just written to Bp. A. Potter in answer to one to him. A. P[otter] says he has just read a letter from Dr. L. to Dr. N. which in Dr. N's present state of mind he thought it imprudent to hand to Dr. N. A. P. asks that the discussion now going on in the "Star" between Dr. Van Rensselaer cease so far as he (Dr. L.) is concerned; he then refers to some statements made by Dr. L. in his letter to Dr. N. in which he (A. P.) is alluded to, and attempts to answer them, and finally winds up by making a sort of apology for Dr. Hickok, who[m] he hopes will recover the ground he has lost. 
L.'s answer is dignified but to the point; he makes no concessions, asks for no favor, grants no loss of power or popularity for Hickok or himself in all the contest. After all the complications and twistings of this business, it all cqmes back to this --Hickok offended by his frankness and boldness and that offence has been the origin, source and sustaining power of this dissension. Had H "knuckled under" to ----"----and said "yes" to every proposition he made and furthered all his "wild-cat" speculations in finance, then not a friend of his in the Board of Trustees would have "peeped." 
H.'s Rat[ional] Psychology was perfectly well known in 1852 when he came to U. C. That now is as much made the occasion of offense as the Cosmology, which is based upon the former. This whole business only shows how perfectly----"----had certain persons under his thumb, persons who always sneeze when ----"---.sneez[z]es. Judge Campbell of Cherry Valley told Judge P. last com.mencement that if H. got to be on friendly terms with----"----there would be no further trouble, but that he, being the 2d generation whom----"----had educated, felt bound to go for him. 
Wednesday December 21, 1859. Cooler --the snow is saved and good sleighing insured thereby. Judge Paige has not yet returned from New York. Saw Dr. Backus a moment in regard to meeting to be held tonight, of School Commissioners. He feels somewhat displeased that Miss Mccorkle was dismissed, also that the written examination has been carried out so strictly the first time there by degrading some scholars who are among the best in the school. 
Sarah Harvey, wife's sister (half), is no better, having lain upon her back now some weeks. I am fully persuaded that no one can cure her but her former Physician, Dr. Strong of Saratoga Spgs., who knows her case thoroughly .

Thursday December 22, 1859. Fine winter day -sleighing good. 
School Commissioners meeting last night was anything but a pleasant 
one. Two or three of the members got into an altercation and called 
each other liars and anything but gentlemen. This comes of electing 
other than gentlemen to this important office 
Saw Dr. Backus at noon, also Judge Paige who has just now 
returned from N. York City. Handed him the Regents Report which I 
have drawn up, Dr. B. having examined and approved of it. Informed 
him also of the communication from C. N. Potter in relation to the 
paper of Instructions to James Brown. He showed me also a letter 
from [L. K. Ely addressed to the Trustees of Union College asking for a 
division of the Green and Hunter Point property among the. 
proprietors. 
This subject of a division of the property is one that has two 
sides to it. On some accounts it is best to keep it together because the 
matters can be better and cheaper administered by one man and 
because there is a community of interest among the holders. Then 
again it is particularly unsafe for a corporate Institution to be 
partner with individuals, because in most cases the latter will neglect 
the interests of the former for their own interests. 
Dr. L says that ----"----has again written a queer letter to 
Hickok about our difficulties. L. has lost confidence in ----"----and 
finds him as others have, a very unfair and slippery opponent. He á has added six or eight pp. to his already long letter to Bp. Potter. 
Friday December 23, 1859. Bright cool winter day. All day in 
office. Had garret of Nat. History Hall cleared of boxes, paper, and 
rubbish arising from unpacking minerals the past 3 years. 
Set carpenter G. I. Van Vranken at work upon a bookcase for 
Treasury office. 
Boys John and Willie left this morning at 8 o'clock for Hudson 
to visit their Aunt Magoun. Mr. Gilbert, my clerk in Treas. office, 
leaves tonight for a short visit to wife's friend at "Palatine." Sarah 
Harvey still very sick and friends much puzzled to know what to do 
for her. 
Dr C. F. Chandler, our Chem. Professor, has just returned from a 
visit to his friends at the East (New London, Mass.) 
Saturday December 24, 1859. All day alone in office. Wind strong from N.W. and very cold. 

Called upon Judge Paige to see if he had examined my report to Regents --promised to do so tonight. He spoke of the division of the Hunter Point property and said 
Dr. B. was very much opposed to [it] at the first mention but on further explanation he seemed to fall in with it. 
Dr. H. called at Treas. office and took the office copy of Lowber's Pleading to read, spoke of L[owber]'s suit and Brown's attempt to ignore the paper of Instructions &c. Also about the division of the Hunter Pt. property and approved of the same inasmuch as it would much reduce the expenses of managing the same. 
Sunday December 25. 1859. Fine day. In morning went to Baptist Ch. and heard Mr. Day; in afternoon at home with wife, read Kitto's History of Palestine. 
Monday December 26, 1859. Signs of snow, and a little fell towards 
night. All day in Treas. Office alone, G. Gilbert, my clerk, being 
away. 
H. Baldwin Jr., a graduate of more than 30 years ago, called this P. M. He is a singular, odd, and eccentric body. He has almost all kinds of sense but common sense, as the term is commonly used; he has tried many kinds of business but has succeeded in none; he never was married and has only himself to support and yet he finds it hard sometimes to keep soul and body together. He is a very good scholar especially of the Hebrew. For two years he has been lawyers clerk for Jenkins & Cooper of Albany, the former having been his classmate; but he fears that this place will soon be given to another and he sent adrift. How strangely diverse are the fortunes of men; hundreds of men with not half the knowledge and integrity of Baldwin will get rich and become known in the world, whilst he for no fault or moral delinquency is suffered to pine in poverty and obscurity. 
Tuesday December 27,1859. A very cold day. A call this morning from Mr. Scram, graduate of U. C., and now proprietor of a boy's boarding school at Sand Lake east of Albany. He often visits Schen'y. John Strong is bro. of his wife. He is a plain, practical man and apparently succeeds pretty well in his enterprize; has 34 boys in his school. He has some taste in Natural History especially in Conchology which he has made a special study. 
Received from Rochester N. Y. by Express a deed from Hon H. G. Warner and wife of the 4 West Troy leases affording a yearly rent of $50., conveying to U. C. in trust for the purposes of the "Warner Prize" the above rents. 
Call from Rev. Mr. Day of Baptist Ch. to solicit my attendance at the annual business meeting this evening, where some question respecting the lowering of his salary may be brought up. The money matters of our churches are annoying and often trying to one's charity. Covetousness is our crying sin. 
Wednesday December 28, 1859. Extremely cold, last night thermom.eter stood at -15 ¡, I am told. Attended last night the annual busi.ness meeting of Bapt. Ch. at their meeting house --the attendance was not large. The list of members was read and corrected, and a summary of last year's finances was presented. It appeared that our expenditures exceed our income and as usual a long discussion arose out of this subject. Some desired to lower the pastor's salary $100 (now $700); others objected, and it was finally put to vote and the pastor sustained. More talk was made of this little deficiency of less than $100. than ought to have happened over a thousand. So it often happens in our democratic Bapt. Ch. where men, women and children talk and vote. A great deal [of] breath is lost and much frivolous talk is committed at these business meetings if not at some of the religious meetings. 
Doctor S.S. Strong, proprietor of a private hospital at Saratoga Springs, came down today to consult with Doctor Swits in relation to the case of Sarah Harvey. He gives advice which if followed strictly he thinks will lead to her releaf. 
Thursday December 29, 1859. Intensely cold this morning. Reports make the temperature last night from -17 ¡ to -24 ¡. There was no keeping warm anywhere. 
Last summer I imported what is called an Autographic Press by Ragueneau, 10 Rue Joquelot, Paris. It is simply an apparatus for executing zincography on a small scale. This process is strictly chemical and depends very little upon mechanical agency as ordinary printing does. 1. A prepared paper with smoth surface and 
2. a peculiar ink are furnished. With these the original is written. This done, the back of the Original is wetted and it is placed face down upon a clean zinc plate. A leather flap is thrown over it and pressure given to the paper by a hard peice of wood pushed over the leather repeatedly. The original is then raised from the zinc plate and the letters are left upon the plate. The plate is then wetted and inked with a roller, paper is laid on, pressure as before given; the paper is removed printed &c&c. In brief, this is the process, altho' many precautions are necessary. Owing to the newness of the plate and ink roller, my first attempt today was poor but the second was quite successful and satisfactory. The transfer can be made and the first proof taken in 15 m[inutes]. 
Friday December 30, 1859. Cold still, 6 inches of snow fell last [night]. Mr. Gilbert has been away one week, which necessarily keeps me in the office all day. The boys with their cousin Edward Magoun came from Hudson tonight. 
Saturday December 31, 1859. Very cold yet, no hold up. Today had the mason and tinman at work at Treas. office putting in a new tin hot-air pipe and setting "registers. " The object is to dispense with one "heater," there being two now in the cellar, and to heat both 
Chapel and Treasury arranged th us:  Office with  one.  These  "heaters"  are  now  
No.1 heating the  
[DRAWING HERE]  
Treasury office and No. 2 the Chapel. I propose and office by No. 2 by attaching pipes thtis  to heat both Chapel  
[DRAWINGHERE]  

The work is now almost finished so that on Monday the fire may be started. 
