
Sunday January 1, 1860. Very severe day, cold and tedious. At home all day with wife. 
Un. Coll. and West Troy Monday January 2, 1860. Very tedious day, cold and windy withal. Yesterday the 1st of January the rents on College leases in West Troy fell due, and this morning at 8 o'clock I started for that place with my receipts and notices. Went by way of Albany, thence to W. T. by Northern R. R. and arrived at 10.05. As College has received title to several other lots since last year, I called on Alex. McAllister, Real Estate and Insurance Agent, to find the occupants of these new lots; found him, left notices to tenants at Post Office, also one with West Troy Advocate to be three times published, also the receipts at the 
W. Troy Bank where for one month the tenants have liberty of paying. 12 M. started back to Albany by Northern R. R., arrived at 
12.20 and took cars for Schen. at 12.40. Sister Magoun and husband here met me in cars, on their way to my house. Home at 1.35. 
Made present to wife of 12 silver forks, bought of Sanders Silversmith, for $38. 
Tuesday January 3, 1860. Very cold yet. Mr. and Mrs. Magoun left this afternoon with Edward for Hudson, at 2.15. Dr. Hickok called at Treas. office to inquire about some points in Lowber's Pleading. The main difficulty in his mind was where L. says in his letter to Treas. of 
U. C. in Dec., 1854, that the requisition on Mr. Spencer for the deeds and bonds and mortgages was made on the express condition that the interest should begin on his bonds on Dec. 1, 1854, whereas one of these bonds commenced drawing int[erest] on Dec.1.1853 and the Treasurer always insisted that it should be paid. 
Now if L. so stated the condition to the Treas., why does not that vitiate all the transaction with regard to Spencer if the condition be not fulfilled? Because the requisition upon Mr. Spencer contained .no such condition --therefore his delivery was legal; and if Mr. Lowber has any remedy it must be a suit for damages, but not to put the papers back again in escrow. Prof. Jackson called this evening to ask if Dr. Nott's ice house did not hold ice enough for the two families and to say that he would write to ask Dr. N. about it. 
Wednesday January 4, 1860. Weather a little milder last night and today; thermom[eter], say 16 ¡ -22 á. Invitation for a "stag" party this evening at Judge Potter's for the Supreme Court judges who are holding a session here of the General Term. On account of cold 
. declined. Paid taxes, my own: $32.00 for $2,000 of assessment at the rate of 1.60 pr. ct. --about .30 less than last year. 
Thursday January 5, 1860. High N.W. wind cold and piercing. All day in Treas. office. 
Friday January 6, 1860. Fair winter day. Prof. Gillespie came last night. Busy all day in office. About the usual number of students returned. 
Faculty meeting this evening after prayers. Present: Vice President Hickok, Profs. Jackson, Lewis, Foster, Peissner, Newmann; Tutors Gordon, Deremer; and Self. Course of study read and approved --about the same as last year. In the matter of Examinations of Students who left before close of last session, voted to hold such examination on Tuesday the 17 of Jan. Agreed also that when a student is absent a portion of the session such absence shall tell upon his graduation in studies proportionally to the time he is absent. 
Saturday January 7, 1860. Mild wind from south, with rain at 4 o'clock P. M. About the usual number of students back. Deposite in Schen. Bk. at 12 1/2 P.M. of $629. for U. C. Heating apparatus for Treas. office works well. What it is, see supra. Copied course of studies and put it upon "bulletin board." The "bulletin board is the place where all notices are posted for all purposes and is now placed on the south end of "South Colonnade" where it joins upon "Natural History Hall." 
Letters today from Father Harvey who is now in London, thinks he will start for his return the last of January. 
Sunday January 8, 1860. Thawing all night and day. In the morning to Baptist Ch. and heard Mr. Day. Home the rest of the day with wife. 
Monday January 9, 1860. Warm all day, thawing. First recitation at 1 0 and 11 A. M. --the two divisions of Sophomore Class in the Higher Algebra. Sent letter to Fa[ther] Harvey in London. 
Tuesday January 10, 1860. Thawing moderately all day. Mr. Gilbert received a letter from Dr. N. in which he speaks of having walked to Church 2ce last Sunday. Sarah Harvey, wife's half sister, is very sick, and a great suffer[er]. 
Wednesday January 11, 1860. Thaw continues, sleighing nearly spoiled. Tried Ragueneau's Autographic Press today for Prof. Gillespie, failed. The inking process seems to be the most difficult part of it. 
Thursday January 12, 1860. Snow for an hour this morning and then sunlight. Matters move on peaceably at College. 
Friday January 13, 1860. Wind north and very cold; sleighing good. This afternoon experimented again with the French zincographic press for copying transfers after the manner of lithographic press. succeeded pretty well, altho it appears too difficult a process for general application. 
Saturday January 14, 1860. Some weeks since, I sent the usual report of Un. Coll. to the Regents of the University; last evening by a note from Dr. Backus I learn that it has been rejected as informal. He asks me to come down this morning to confer upon this subject. 
In accordance with his request called upon him at 9 o'clock this morning when I learned that the cheif difficulty with the Report was a very minute informality at the close of the paper where the Finance Committee approved of it but did not say they were au.thorized by the Board to do so!! So small a matter will grave men deliberate about and magnify into undue importance! Dr. B. wrote a letter addressed to Mr. Woolworth, Sec. of Regents, in which the Finance [Committee] are made [to] say that they intended to assume the responsibility of the Report in accordance with the Resolution of the Board passed in July. This Dr. B., Judge P., and Mr. Cochrane subscribed to, and I took it to Albany at 10:15. Dr. Woolworth explained the objections of the Regents and also requested that a sum total of all College Property should also be added, even of such as are not usually inventoried. I took the report back at 12.40 and made the necessary amendments, which were assented to by Judge 
P. and then were sent to Dr. B. for his approval. 
Sunday January 15, 1860. Fine day, bright clear and warm. Home all day with wife. 
Monday January 16, 1860. Warm, snow melting fast, slush and water in the streets. Having made the necessary changes in our Regents Report, at 2.15 P.M. started for Albany with it and delivered it to Mr. Woolworth, who approved of it. 
Having a couple of hours before train left for Schenectady, called at Gray's bookstore where met Rev. Wm. James D. D. who in.quired kindly about my wife and Dr. Nott. I said that the latter was in comfortable health and spending the winter in Philadelphia, that if he kept his mind free from care and the turmoil of business he might live some years happily. Dr. J. remarked that it ought to be our greatest desire that he might depart happily after a life of so much opposition and harrassing cares. A wise remark. He then referred to Dr. Huntington's sermons, of Cambridge, now just out and recommended me to buy a copy of them for my wife and particularly pointed out the 16th, 19th, 21st as very fine --"the finest, best sermons I ever read," says he. I then called upon Mr. Hoffman, engraver and lithographer, to learn something of the lithographic process. He told me what he could but did not have his press in practical operation. Hence I went to H. E. Dean who employs a large force in lithographing. He was kind enough to show me thro' his shop where all the different processes are going on under the care of an intelligent German workman. It is a most beautiful and simple art and I have thoughts of getting a small press for my own amusement. 
Home at 6.40 in the evening. 
Monday January 16, 1860. Tomorrow is to be taken up in an examination of those who were absent from exams. at close of last session. 
Tuesday January 17, 1860. Moderate; at night wind from N.W. and colder. Today was set apart for examinations of those students who left college last session before the close of it. At 10 and 11 A.M. I heard the Juniors in Conics and found some of the class had forgotten nearly all the little they ever knew. An unprofitable days work because nothing comes of our examinations. 
Wednesday January 18, 1860. Fine cool winter day. Today received 
more London papers from Father Harvey. 
The rumor is current that Hon. Clarke B. Cochrane is insane and has been taken today to the asylum at Utica. It is said he has overworked his brain by a pressure of business in addition to his duties as Mem[ber] of Congress. The rumor has for some time been rife that he had become a Douglas Democrat altho' elected by the Re.publicans; if this be true, it may be a part of his insanity --the way in which the disease manifests itself. In any respect it is a sad matter, and much resembles the insanity of Gerrit Smith and it is to be hoped is quite as curable. 
At work upon a communication to our Common Council respecting opening Liberty St. Continued etc. 
Thursday January 19, 1860. Fine winter weather, moderately cold. More rumors in regard to Hon. C. B. Cochrane. It seems to be well settled that he has gone to Utica Insane Asylum. Cause: some say an overtaxed brain; some, abuse of tobacco and dissipation; others, political troubles. Perhaps all these combine to bewilder him: A. J. Thomson says he went on to Washington with his mind dead set against Helpers book, and was met by denunciation by his Republican colleagues; the rumor reached here some time since that he was shaky in the knees, i.e., that he is no longer a firm "Republican," but a sort of Douglas Democrat. When he returned lately he was met continually by the remark, "What are you here for?" "Why arent you at your post?" "We understand you are shaky!" &c&c. These taunting remarks, together with excessive indulgence perhaps in stimulants and a pressure of business may have for a time unhinged his mind. 
More letters from Fa[ther] Harvey from London. He writes that he shall return about the first of February. 
Friday January 20, 1860. Beautiful day. At 2 o'clock P.M. attended the funeral of Jno. Brownell's wife in Jay Street. Saw Dr. Backus and J. 
R. Craig there, when they spoke of troubles in the school which some think evidences that our Superintendent Mr. Bennett is not fitted for his place. To deliberate upon these troubles Carley and Walker have called a meeting of the Bd. at J. R. Craigs house in Church St. 
Saturday January 21, 1860. Beautiful clear warm day. Sleighing is nearly ruined. 10 o'clock Rode out with wife 4 mi. on Troy Road. 
3 o'clock P.M. call from Prof. Stanton who feels somewhat uneasy that Resolutions have been passed in Common Council looking towards a reduction of his salary. I tried to reassure him by saying that his salary and standing could not well be toutched without the cooperation of the Board of Trustees of Un. Coll. who pay two thirds of his salary. 
4 o'clock P. M. Attended a meeting of the Board of Education at 
J. R. Craig's house, all present but Dr. Backus. Some complaints against Mr. Bennett, the Superintendent, were made by one of his first supporters who has now turned against him, and finds fault with his management. Such is the inconsistency of small fickle minds! A committee was appointed by the Bd. (Mr. Brownell) to confer with Mr. B[ennett] and ask him to report to the Bd. and explain his proceedings. 
Sunday January 22, 1860. Beautiful day, warm and bright. Sleighing is spoilt near the city. At home all day with wife. Read in Hun ting ton's Sermons. 
Monday January 23, 1860. Fine day, a little colder. Judge Paige sent for me to learn some facts in relation to the Lowber business. 
Tuesday January 24,1860. Mild day again, wind south with prospects of rain. 9 -10 o'clock A. M. Opened Library. 10 -12 Heard two classes, or divisions of Sophomore Class in Higher Algebra. 
Wednesday January 25, 1860. Strong west wind but warm till night when it began to freeze. No news of any kind. That Bear Garden Congress are doing nothing but quarrel over slavery and legislate for the Presidency. Much disgust is felt at the conduct of certain men there, which shows anything but a patriotic desire to do good for the country. 
Thursday January 26, 1860. Cool day and windy. This day by direction of Judge Paige bo't of Jas. R. Craig and wife a bond and mortgage for 1300 D's. to begin drawing int[erest] on Ap[ril] 1 next, for 1283.74 D's. This property lies in Albany Co. 6 m[ile]s south of this city on the "Hungry-Kill" so-called and was formerly owned by the city of Albany. 
Called on S. S. Riggs and talked over the matter of the indebtedness of his late fa[ther] S.S. R. to Un. Coll. He promises to do something by way of settling this obligation. Saw Judge P. who has nearly finished his argument in reply to R. W. Lowber in the matter of the 40,000 d's. bond and mortgage. 
Friday January 27, 1860. Fine day. Called this evening upon Mrs. .and Dr. Hickok with wife. He spoke of a recent show of malice quiteá instructive. The late Tutor, Dwight K. Bartlett, having studied theology is now pastor of the Presbyterian Ch. in Amenia, Dutchess Co. Not long since a Rev. Mr. McCord, former pastor of the same ch. but now a member of the Albany Presbytery and pastor of a ch. in Tribes Hill, distributed among his old parishoners at A[menia] copies of the "Presbyterian" newspaper contain[ing] C. V. Rensselaer's first letter attacking Union College and Dr. Hickok. The spirit and intent of this act are manifest. The Rev. Gentleman (?) supposed that such a letter would open the eyes of the people to the danger of employing a minister who had been educated by so heretical a Professor as Dr. 
á Hickok. 
Passed on and called upon Mrs. Jackson and then to North Hall to enquire about Mrs. Foster who has been sick for some days. Mr. and Mrs. F. board there. 
At Mo. Harveys at 6 o'clock where met Mr. and Mrs. Toll of Glenville. Sarah is no better but lies upon her back as she has done for weeks. 
Call this P.M. from Mr. G. W. Veeder to talk about opening Liberty at east of Terrace St. &c. 
Saturday January 28, 1860. Slight fall of snow. Long talk this morning with S. S. Riggs Jr. in regard to settlement with his father's estate for work done before his death and in regard to the demand 
U. C. still hold against the estate. This P. M. took five bonds and mortgages to Jackson & Thomson, attornies, for collection. Then saw Judge Paige who is drawing an answer to R. W. Lowbers Pleading in relation to his bond and mortgage of $40,000. He gave me a minute of information which he desires from our minutes of the Board. ásaw Judge Johnson, in relation to letters of administration for 
S. S. Riggs Estate &c. 
Sunday January 29, 1860. Beautiful day. At night, wind from south 
and prospect of rain. Wife and self to Bapt. Ch. in the morning and 
heard Rev. Mr. Day. 
Monday January 30, 1860. Warm day, thawing all day. 9 to 10 Opened library. 10 to 11 Attended my two classes in Algebra. á Afternoon hunting up and copying facts for Judge Paige to 
incorporate into his pleading in the Lowber case. 
V. P. Hickok says some students were drunk and noisy on Sunday night; tracked them to their room in North College. 
Tuesday January 31, 1860. Cold, windy, with snow from the north at night. 9 to 10 In Library. 10 to 12 Recitations in Algebra. P. M. Closed the months business. 
Wednesday February 1, 1860. Very cold. Thermometer -12 á this morning 'tis said. Dr Lewis says Dr. Hickok had a letter from Dr. N. a few days since in which he says that he has lately heard that there are some letters there which he has not seen, having been retained from him. Dr. L. says his long letter is among the number; this withholding a letter till the subject becomes cold only renews the old matters now past and places him in an unpleasant position, as tho' he was renewing a quarrel now happily at rest. 
Thurs. February 2, 1860. Very cold, a little snow this P. M. Thermo.meter this morning -8 á. W. M. G[illesp[ie] goes to N. Y. tomorrow. Paying off Professors salaries. By extravagant waste of water at N. Coll. the cistern is emptied. What's to be done? 
Friday February 3, 1860. Thermometer -10á this morning. 
Saturday February 4, 1860. A little light feathery snow. At 8 A.M. started by way of Albany to visit West Troy to received rents. On way down I presented to Abr. A. Wemple the subject of the Corporation contract with Un. College in March 1858 in relation to opening Liberty Street &c. and explained the matter to him. He is a member of the Common Council and may have influence in furthering the business. At 10, arrived at W. Troy by Northern Rail Road. Received from W. Troy Bk., where the rents had been paid, $461.50 and $12.50 from Fraser & Porter, in all 474. d's. 
Mr. Fraser of this firm, a member of Episcopal Church here, 
spoke of applying to our Trustees to remit the ground rent on their 
lot. Gave no encouragement but referred him to the Trustees. 
At 12 o'clock started back to Albany, spent an hour or more at 
Daniel True's room looking at his specimens of die-sinking and 
punches. He's a New Hampshire man and has spent more than 30 
years in Albany. There is but little variety in his work and not much 
neatness. 2 o'clock P. M. Lunch. 3 to County Clerk's office and paid 
1.50 for recording Warner's deed to College of the 4 Troy leases for his Prize Goblet. Thence to State Library and saw Doctor Hough, who spoke slightingly of Dr Hickoks last book, says he is publishing a history of Lewis County and has other projects on hand. Home at 6 o'clock P. M. and after tea to Judge Paige's office to see him about his answer to Lowber. 
Sunday February 5, 1860. Mild, thawing. In afternoon at Bapt. Ch., Communion season. 
Monday February 6, 1860. Mild, rain last night; snow going fast. 
8 3/4 to 9 3/4 o'clock A.M. In Library. 10 to 12. Algebra recitation. 1 to 3. To bank, made deposite of 550$ and got my salary with which commenced paying up debts: To Sanders for forks etc. $40. To Beckley, taylor, 38.63. To Maxson, flour 47. Then round to Carley's and got policy of ins[urance] on Fa[ther] Harvey's house, $1000. To Judge Paige's to read over his answer in the Lowber case and staid till dark before left and then did not finish it. Called on Hanford and paid $11.50 to renew insurance on Howze's House in Glenville. 6 o'clock Home to tea. 
Tuesday February 7, 1860. Fine day, cooler at night. In Library from 9 to 11, Monday and Tues. being my Library days. P. M. Sent College engine suction hose to Button & Blake's for repairs. Sent to Common Council thro' Mr. G. W. Veeder a petition to have the resolution passed by them, Mar. 2 '58, carried out by the City: i.e. to open and grade Liberty Street east of Terrace St. &c. 
Went with wife to the Presbyterian Ch. to choose a seat. The old house is entirely changed both in form and ornament. The old one was a plain rectangle; the new is a cross or T. The former was plain and devoid of ornament; the later is highly decorated with fencing, stained-glass, paint etc. An organ also has been added to it. Bad cold in head. 
Wednesday February 8, 1860. Fine day. This P.M. was introducted to Hon. Joshua R. Giddings of Ohio, who is to lecture here in town this evening. He is a huge man more than 6 ft. high and broad.shouldered. His face is good-natured and intelligent. Had a call from a 
Mulatto  named  Grant  from  Chatham  C.W., who is endeavoring  to  
collect  money  to  redeem  his  sister  from  slavery,  now  held  in  
Lexington, Ky.  

Thursday February 9, 1860. Fine day. 8 o'clock Heard that Mr. Geo. Gilbert's (Treasurer's clerk or Registrar) youngest child, aged 4 yrs. died this morning of congestion of lungs, and brain-sick but 36 hours . P. M. Visited Mr. Gilbert this afternoon and thence to Presbyterian Ch. to see the seats again preparatory to renting one this evening. 7 -8 P. M. at the Pres. Ch. where a crowd assembled to bid for choice of seats. I bid for choice and took 19 in eastern transept, with understanding that I could change if desirable. 
Telegram announces that Fa[ther] Harvey will be home tonight by way of Boston. He probably arrived by the North Briton at Portland yesterday. 
Friday February 10, 1860. Last night till 12 o'clock M. it rained, then suddenly the wind changed to N. and blew great guns, harder than before this season. Temperature, too, down to zero. Found this morning that a brick wall back of south end of So. Coll. had blown down, also a barn in town. Wind continued high all day. Fa[ther] Harvey arrived this morning from England by North Briton, arrived first at Portland. Stormy passage --well nigh wrecked. 4 P. M. attended funeral of Geo. Gilbert's child. Called on Judge Paige and promised to have his answer to Lowber's Pleading copied and ready for him tomorrow at 10 o'clock. 
Saturday February 11, 1860. Very cold night and morning. Till 11 o'clock A. M. engaged copying 77 pp. of Mss. --Judge Paige's answer to Lowber's Pleading about the 40,000 D's. bond and mortgage -.with the Letter Press. As I came down, met Dr. Proudfit's servant at my door; she announced that the Dr. had just died. I immediately called at the door and met his dau[ghte] who said that her fa[ther] slept well during the night and this morning wished to get up and dress; she was helping him, when he fell and he was dead without a groan or struggle. Thus passed away our old Prof. of Languages after a connection with College of more than 40 years, for 1O or 12 yrs. past-Prof. Emeritus. College paid him 500$ pension and house since his retirement from active du ties. 
Passed on and at 11 1/2 o'clock called upon Judge Paige to compare his answer with the copy which has been made and to which I am to swear as Treasurer. With a brief intermission for dinner kept on reading till 5 o'clock, then left and at 9 am to go down again to sign the affidavit which his [clerk] is in meantime to draw up. 
Called again upon Miss Proudflt. All preparations are made for 
funeral which is to be held on Tuesday next. 
Sunday February 12, 1860 Fine day. At home all day with wife. 
Monday February 13, 1860. The arrows of Death fly thick among our College families. On Thursday Mr. Gilbert lost his little girl. Cb Saturday Dr. Proudfit dies, and now it is announced that Prof. Peissner's little daughter, Keziah Lewis Peissner, died this morning at 2 o'clock of the inflammation of the lungs. This will be a particularly hard case for both parents and grandparents who, since Keziah Lewis' death a few years since, have substituted this little granddau[ghter] in her place in their he~rts. 
Down to Judge P's office twice today to finish up his answer; tomorrow Mr. Jackson is to take it to New York and deliver it to James Brown's lawyer C. N. Potter. 
Tuesday February 14, 1860. Cold,. but sunny. Opened Library 9 to 
10. Yesterday morning, missed on account of Judge Paige's requiring me to correct his answer. 2 o'clock Funeral services at Dr. Lewis' house over little Kizzy's remains, which tomorrow morning are to be carried to Fort Miller to be interred with the rest of the family who have departed. 3 o'clock P.M. attended the funeral of Rev. Dr. Proudfit at his house. Dr. McCarral of Newburgh officiated. The faculty acted as bearers and the remains were deposited in the Dutch Ch. burying ground vault for the present. 
Last evening at 5 the Faculty held a meeting in Treas. Office and passed resolutions relative to Dr. P's death, which were published today in the daily papers. 
Wednesday February 15, 1860. Cool but fine winter day. This morning Dr. and Mrs. Lewis and Prof. Peissner accompanied the remains of little "Kizzy" to Fort Miller to bring her beside the other "Kizzy," the aunt; a sad procession it was. 
Vph. called and brought back Judge Paige's answer to Lowber's pleading: he pronounces it a masterly performance and irresistable. It necessarily places ----"----in an unenviable light. Instead of his being a great benefactor to the College, it shows that he only paid 
back what he owed it and probably not even that; for in 1845 when 
the then Treasurer executed a deed of the "Cove" and Hunter farm to 
him there was an unsettled account existing between him and U. C. 
which he settled without any authority from the Board and in his 
own way --the Treasurer doing just what he desired; and in like 
manner took a deed without any authority from the Trustees, so that 
when J. C. Spencer came to look into the matter he found his title to 
this property "not worth a straw," as he termed it and making use of 
this fact he "coerced him," as he told Judge P. he would do, to give 
back a deed of the property to U. C. This property was called 
$610,000 but in fact its real worth at that time was not above 
$180,000 and is not now worth more than $280,000, if it is that. I 
say ----11----then does not appear well in the Judge's answer as Vph 
said today, and if this goes to trial and all the facts are brought out ..
bearing upon ----"----'s ownership of the property andá of his 
connection with Lowber, it will be a black record for him. 
Called upon Mrs. Prof. Foster with wife at "North Hall." She has 
been sick but is now better. Snow this evening. 
Thursday February 16, 1860. Snow last night and today, 6 to 8 in. of light feathery snow, and wind tonight. 4 P.M. Called on Jane Ann McPherson and her old Aunt Jane Shankland, loaned them 25 dollars. Paid Wm Sweet, Grocer, 32 dolls. leaving 97 cents due him. Called upon A. J. Thomson and made arrangement with him to sell Fa[ther] Harvey's house and furniture for 25 dolls. including the á drawing of papers, all expenses except advertising. At his office met his uncle A. J. Yates who is a Democratic politician and has just returned from the South. He says if a Republican President is elected this year, the Southern people will take possession of the seat of government and prevent his taking his seat and executing the duties of President! He saw John Nott at Goldsboro, N.C.; while there, found that one Meacham (Jno. H.**) once a member of U. Coll., had been suspected of being an abolitionist but by management was got 
free. Meacham was a book-peddler. 
Friday February 17, 1860. Very cold windy day. 
Saturday February 18, 1860. Snow all day, the severest storm of the winter. All day in office writing &c. At noon had a call from Rev. Mr Day and a Rev. Mr. Lane, agent of Am[erican] and For[eign] Bible Society, who calls for money. I objected that the Bib[le] and Pub.[lication] Societies ought to write[ unite?] and reduce expenses, and that what I gave would not be so freely done as if something had 
been done to consolidate these societies. He thought the Publ. Soc. 
was selfish and wanted to swallow the Bihl. Soc. and carry it off to 
Phila. 
Prof. Foster has removed today to a house on Troy Road east of 
College gate, 2nd house, owned by G. W. Veeder. He had been 
boarding at "North Hall," kept by Mrs. Lansing. 
Sunday February 19, 1860. Tremendous wind all day. The snow litterally fills the air like a fog. In the morning at Bapt. Church and heard Rev. Mr. Lane, asst. of Am. and For. Bible Soc. 
Monday February 20, 1850. Wind south, milder and some signs of an-other storm. 9 to 10 In Library. 10 to 12 Two classes in Algebra --logarithms. P. M. ordinary office work. 
Tuesday February 21, 1860. Bright warm day, snow fast melting. 9 to 10 Library. 10 to 12 Algebra -logarithms. P. M. The photographs of the Senior Class by Warren of Lowell, Mass. came today. Total amount of cost more than $1,200. 
Wednesday February 22. 1860. Rain, wind from south, snow melting. Washington's Birthday was made occasion by the students to ask for a "bolt" from Rec. and in most cases was granted. I met my classes --gave in addition a lesson, and adjourned them till Friday, tomorrow being Fast Day and no exercises but religious . 
Letter from Dr. Nott. He proposes to leave Phila. about 10 March, pass a short time in N. Y. and arrive home about April 1. 
Thursday February 23, 1860. Fine warm day; the snow melts rapidly and the streets are flooded with water. At 10 A. M. Dr. Hickok preached to the students in College Chapel. P. M. Called to see attorney of the city about the opening of Liberty, east of Terrace St. &c. 
Friday February 23, 1860. Cooler, wind N.W. 3 P.M. Called upon Judge P[aige]. He átells me the Lowber case is "noticed" for 1st Monday in March when its future will be determined probably. He thinks it most likely that the case will be referred to some ex-Judges to try, before whom testimony will be taken and the pleadings made and a decision rendered after due deliberation. Among other things he says the state of Dr. N.'s account with Un. Coll. in 1845 must be thoro'ly investigated. He thinks it will appear then that instead of College's owing him, he owed College. 
Saturday February 25, 1860. Fair winter weather, no sleighing, rough wheeling. 10.50 Called upon Judge Paige and paid him 100 D's. on account of advise and expenses in the Lowber suit. P. M. with the little zincographic press which I imported from Paris, printed 25 copies of a Math. Table for Prof Gillespies engineering class. 
Sunday February 26, 1860. Fine day. At home with wife. Read Sawyer's Translation of New testament. In some things he has improved upon the Old; in others has made unnecessary changes in no respect bettering the sense. 
Monday February 27, 1860. Fine warm day, wind from south. Water running freely thro' the streets, and standing upon the ice in Mohawk. 9 to 10 oclock in Library P. M. "Puttering" about my Zincographic Press trying to improve it. Nothing more. 
Tuesday February 28, 1860. Warm nights and days, thawing all the time. Fa[ther] Harvey went to N. Y. today. This evening was held one of our "Term Examinations" in No. 16 (Phil. Hall). The usual crowd of unready delinquents were present, hoping to slip thro' by the skin of the teeth. 
Wednesday February 29, 1860. Thaw continues. Up around G. W. Veeder's lot, the new street by his house --Liberty St. continued -.to see what can be done with these improvements (proposed). 
Thursday March 1, 1860. Rain all last night and all day, sometimes freely, sometimes moderately. 4 P. M. Attended the funeral of Jno. Kelly's child, buried in the Catholic burying ground. He is an Irish taylor in Union St., married sister of Ann Carr who once lived at my house, afterwards at Mrs. Notts. This is the second child they have lost with putrid sore throat, a deadly disease for children this winter all over the country. 
Friday March 2, 1860. Fine warm day, wind N.W. The ice in the Mohawk started this morning at 10 o'clock, and tonight is all gone. This has come about rather earlier than usual. 
This morning the Freshman Class absented themselves from Chapel having taken offence at Dr. Hickok last night, from this circumtance: the Sophomores placed an iron bar on the Freshmen seats last night just before prayers. This some of them got under feet 
and moved about to the disturbance of the Chapel exercises. Dr. H. 
asked them three times to keep quiet; not obeying, he sent them out 
of the room: this they resented and staid away altogether this 
morning. At 8 o'clock Dr. H. called at the Freshman Room and talked 
to the Class and settled the matter satisfactorily, as is supposed. 
hear the rumor from town that Dr. Backus, after his church is 
finished, is to procure an assistant and take a vacation; also that he is 
rich enough to live without a salary and will not probably preach so 
constantly as he has done; also that he is to be a candidate for the 
Presidency of U.C. (?) 
Fa[ther] Harvey returned from N.Y. last night. 
Saturday March 3, 1860. Fine day. This forenoon engaged in printing with the Ragueneau Zincographic press a tabular statement for Prof. Gillespie's engineering class. 
Sunday March 4, 1860. Very strong wind from the N.W., not out during the day. 
Monday March 5, 1860. Fine day, spring-like. Snow almost gone, ice clear out of the river. 9 to 10 In Library. 10 to 12. Algebra Rec. 
P.M. in office and at east end of East Liberty where U. C. has commenced grading the new street by G. W. Veeders house. A walk on R.R. Centr. with wife at 5 and home. 
Tuesday March 6, 1860. Beautiful day. 2 P.M. at meeting of School Commissioners in Un. School Building. 5 With wife called upon Mrs. Prof. Jackson and upon Mrs. Prof. Newman. 
Wednesday March 7, 1860. Snow and sleet, sloppy and miserable walking. Printing most of the day for Profs. Peissner, Newman, for their classes. A lithographic press of medium dimensions would would be a very useful instrument for a College, for the printing of programmes, problems, tables &c&c. for the classes. A young man of ordinary capacity could learn to work it well enough for ordinary transfer work. 
Thursday March 8, 1860. Fine warm sunny day. The snow which fell yesterday morning has altogether disappeared. 
The spirit which animated the enemies of Doctor Hickok is still alive although smothered for a time. G[illespie] says that J(ackson] gives him no credit for government of College, and that in the matter of sending the Freshmen out of Chapel some days since he made a 
false step in making an apology to them. Such, however, I did not 
understand it to be but rather an explanation for his doing so, and 
somewhat softening the edge of their offence by placing a part of the 
blame upon the Sophomores where it belonged. G. says he has heard 
in town that Dr. B[ackus] is to be President of U. C. and that if he ever 
is, he shall leave forthwith. 
Doctor Mynderse (B. J.) an old citizen aged 69 died today. Many months since he had the palsy and has been good for nothing since. 
Friday March 6, 1860. Cool, windy, "Marchy." Writing letters, 
executing deeds; recitations &c. Edw. Magoun came up at6.40. 
Saturday March 10, 1860. Very windy and cold. This evening Bro-.in-law Magoun and wife arrived from Ballston where he has been on business. 
Sunday March 11, 1860. Windy. Bro. Magoun and self out this fore.noon at Bapt. Ch. Rev. Mr. Day preached. 
Monday March 12, 1860. Snow and sleet, a dull, dreary, unpleasant day. Bro. M., wife and Edward left this P. M. at 2 o'clock for home. I hear today that Dr. and Mrs. N. have left Phila. and have arrived at New York. 
Tuesday March 13, 1860. Cold, windy, March day. In Library in morning. P. M. Dr. Backus called to talk on School matters. We are to have a Committee Meeting tomorrow P. M. at 2 o'clock. 
Wednesday March 14, 1860. Fine day. 2 P.M. With Dr. Backus at Union School Building examining the arrangement of studies, classification of scholars &c&c. 4 1/2 Saw Miss Sarah Proudfit in re.gard to purchasing the house in which she now lives, advised her to do so if possible. 
Thursday March 15, 1860. Beautiful, warm day. Prof. Jackson called and proposed a walk up thro' the College woods to see in what condition they are: where they ought to be thinned; where planted and c[ut]. He says, truly, that all that has been hitherto [done] on College grounds has been worse than thrown away; thousands of dollars were squandered in stone walls where they were not needed, in locust trees worse than useless, in roads where they were not wanted &c. Now all these things must be removed if ever anything is done in landscape gardening. Measured the Proudfit lot to see how much there is of it, and found 56 2/3 ft. front and rear and about 200 ft. deep. 
Friday March 16, 1860. Very warm. Flocks after flocks of pigeons have been flying north all day. P. M. 2 to 4 With Dr. Backus visiting Union School. Saw A. J. Thomson about Fa[ther] Harveys house &c. Home and out for a walk. 
Dr. B[ackus] spoke of want of discipline in College, about houses for Profs. &c&c. 
Saturday Marchl 7, 1860. Lovely day. Little or nothing new in Coll. 
Sunday March 18, 1860. Weather ditto. At home all day. 
Monday March 19, 1860. Weather very fine. Dr. Hickok goes to Brooklyn to preach an ordination sermon tomorrow. 
Tuesday March 20, 1860. Warm till noon, then squalls and wind from N.W. Dr. H. has gone to Brooklyn to preach an ordination sermon. 
Wednesday  March 21, 1860.  Windy day. Dr. Hickok returned  today  
fromN. Y.  
Thursday  March 22, 1860.  Furious N.W. storm,  snow  and  wind,  

cold. Had a letter from Dr. N., says he is better so long as he does nothing but attend religious meetings, will be home about Ap. 1. 
Friday March 23, 1860. Snow on ground but fast going under a powerful sun. P. M. Saw Judge Paige; he showed me a bill which he drew up for Mr. Crane to enable the proprietors of Hunter Point and Green Point to deed in trust to the Trustees of Union College all the property: that it may be beyond the ordinary contingencies and accidents of business and that the deeds may be executed by one person. This Bill Mr. Crane has got thro' the Senate and hopes soon to get it thro' the Assembly and signed by the Gov. 
Saturday March 24, 1860. Last evening --5 to 6 --Faculty met in Treasury Office to arrange for examinations and to read over the roll. Made the last years arrangement. 
Sunday March 25, 1860. Cold wind. At home all day. 
Monday March 26, 1860. Cold N. wind. At 11 A.M. to Surrogates' office to testify to the last will of Prof. Robert Proudfit. Met Jno. Newland Esq. 3 to 6 Examined my two classes in Algebra -.logarithms. 
The great factory-like students boarding house opposite my house has been kept the last year by one Russell (Wm.). Last night he had a fight with some of his boarders. 
Tuesday March 2 7, 1860. Un. Coll. Weather moderate. This morning 
out with Dr. Hickok and some students looking for a fit plot for base 
ball playing. P. M. at Dentist Denel's with wife. 
Wednesday March 28, .1860. Fine day. 10 A.M. Walked out with Dr. Hickok to see the "new street" from Union to "Liberty St. Con'd" by G. 
W. Veeder's house. This new st. College is grading and is to be substituted for old Niskayuna Road. 
The news is that Dr. N's black man, "Moses" Viney, is to return tonight with the baggage and that Dr. and Mrs. N. are to follow the latter part of the week. 
2 P. M. At School Commissioner's meeting till 4 o'clock. Called upon Judge Paige on business; on Judge Johnson, surrogate, respecting S. S. Riggs estate where met S. S. R. Junior and urged him to take out letters and settle up the business. 
Dr. Backus called me in and talked over school matters. 
Thursday March 29, 1860. Fine day. All day at the Clerk's office in Albany investigating the title of Farm Lot No. 46 of Albany Co. on which the present owner, J. H. Rockefeller, wishes to loan money. Home at 6 P.M. Dined with a crowd at Delevan Ho[tel], not comfortable, too many for the accommodations. 
Friday March 30, 1860. Beautiful warm day. Moses, Dr. Nott's man came home today; the Dr. and Mrs. N. will follow tomorrow morning from Troy. Mrs. Day and her son, Rev. Horace Day, to tea this evening. 
Saturday March 31, 1860. Warm day. Dr. and Mrs. Nott returned to.night. 
Sunday April 1, 1860. Warm and smoky. Rain in afternoon. 
Monday April 2, 1860. Cleared off, cold wind N.W., snow on the Hill west and north. Called upon Mrs. and Dr. N. --both look well and speak encouragingly of his health. It seems probable that so long as the Dr. does not too much busy his mind in exciting matters but keeps calm and cheerful, he enjoys comfortable health, but any troublesome matters will invariably injure him and make him sick. 
11 1/2 o'clock A. M. Called on Judge P[aige] on business. He says Dr. T. C. Reed of Geneva called on Dr. N. last evening and invited him to come up and visit his school. Dr. N. said he could not till after Comm't. because he had to hear a recitation this coming session! A more unwise thing he could hardly attempt; the young mischeivous students take advantage of his age and blindness to cut up pranks and make noises. These would trouble and excite him, introduce misrule into College, and lower discipline. 1 
2 Called also on Dr. Backus. He spoke of the Lowber suit as tho' it was an unfortunate opening of old sores long since healed and wished to know if L[owber] looked upon Dr. N. as his enemy and antagonist. I could not say; but from what Judge P. had learned from L's lawyer. Barbour, supposed that he did. Dr. B. thought there was no need of opening the old lottery matters long since settled by the Senate Committee and deprecated such a proceedure. So did I but thought Judge P. had made that a point in his answer to Lowber who had by his charges rendered it necessary. I told Judge this morning that here would be one of his great difficulties: to carry on this suit against Lowber and against Dr. N's friends also, who would most surely hold him back and object strenuously to his introducing any evidence that would reflect upon Dr. N's transactions either with L. or anyone else. á 
Saw Vph. at 6 o'clock P.M. He feels the unpleasant position in which he is placed; if----"----takes the reins into his own hands and disorders arise then ----"----'s friends will say that he (Vph) does not help him but on the contrary encourages disorders for the purpose of breaking ----"----down. On the contrary if ----"----does not take the reins but leaves the guidance of affairs to Vph, they will say that Vph. has pushed the old man out against his will &c&c .. 
Tuesday April 3, 1860. Wind sou th, cold. Election of City officers -.a scrub-race between many candidates. 12 o'clock had a talk with Mrs. Paige about sending Sarah Harvey up to Clifton Springs to Dr. Foster's hospital. She highly approves of it but does not know if a room can be found for her. 
Saw Dr. N. several times: he already troubles himself too much with business. This evening he is agitated about a bill which Mr. Crane (Jona.) is trying to get thro' the Legislature, authorizing the Hunter Point proprietors to place all the property in the hands of Un. College in trust for their benefit. The Bill had proceeded thro' one House but was stopped in the other by a creditor of Crane & Ely's who refuses to remove the obstacles to its passage until he is secured by a good note or by bond and mortgage. What to do is the question. 
Wednesday April 4, 1860. Fine day. 9 Mr. Jona. Crane called before I had reached the office and said Judge Paige wished to see me. On calling, the question was How to arrange matters so that Mrs. Edwd. James' attorney would withdraw his opposition to the Bill, which Mr. Crane has now before legislation to enable the proprietors of Hunter Point to put the property into the hands of Un. College in trust. The attorney, S. 0. Shepherd, being a clerk in the Assembly, boasts that he has influence to stop the Bill or to further it. Mrs. James holds a mortgage against J. B. Nott's farm in Guilderland for $5000. To prevent foreclosure, Dr. N. hypothecated a $5000 note of Crane & Ely to her; and to increase the security, esp~cially after C. & E. 's failure, their assignee L. K. Ely hypothecated $10,000 of Certificates of Trust. Mrs. J[ames] is satisfied with her present security, but her lawyer will not agree to take U. C. as Trustee of C. & E. instead of L. K. E. Hence, if other security of cash be not raised, he forbids the Bill to pass the Legislature. Dr. Nott has about $5000 in bonds and mortgages received from U. C. by resolution of Trustees in 1857. These he is willing to sell [to] U. C. for cash and to buy up the securities held by Mrs. James and hold them himself as an investment, thus putting out of the way this obstacle to the Bill. I have fully explained the matter to Mrs. N. also, and she assents to the arrangement. On the strength of this agreement with Dr. N., Judge Paige has written a letter to S. 0. Shepherd saying that so soon as the Bill shall pass he shall have the money or an assignment of the bonds and mortgages. Tomorrow I go to Albany to arrange matters with Mr. Crane. 
Saw Miss Sarah Proudfit in relation to the house she now lives in, told her I had an offer for it of $2,500 and asked if she would give that price. She wants till Friday to think of it. 
Dr. N. has been much agitated by the little business above stated and Mrs. N. says he slept none all last night thinking of it. She says he is not what he once was. 
Thursday April 5, 1860. Pleasant day. 8 o'clock A. M. To Albany according to appointment to meet Mr. Jona. Crane and arrange for the taking up of the $5,000 note which Dr. N. deposited with Mrs. Edwd. James as security for the payment of J.B. Nott's bond and mortgage. Called up[on] S. 0. Shepherd, her lawyer; stated what I was ready to do on the passage of the Bill which Mr. C. has in hand, and received assurances from Mr. S. that the obstacles were removed and that the Bill would pass. He gave a note to Mr. Clerk (Richardson) of the House of Assembly, which Mr. C. took up and sent to him. 
Spent all day till 2 o'clock in Assembly Chamber with Mr. C. listening to his dissertation on Politics, Theology, Finance &c. (for he is an everlasting talker) and then went down to Stanwix Hall and dined. Back to the Assembly and then Home. Such a bear-garden as this Legislature is; with its immense lobby influence of bribery and corrupt measures we seldom meet with. Every man they say has his price, and they charge that the Senate has been bought up by certain men and for certain purposes. 
Friday April 6, 1860. Cool. Saw Dr. N. this morning walking out with Mrs. N., talked of various indifferent things and among others of Mr. Jonathan Crane whom he judges to be a very honest man, but an everlasting talker and therefore bad businessman. It is true; no two men ever were more unlike than E. N. and J.C. in this respect: one close, the other open, carrying his opinions upon his sleeve; one crafty, sly, indirect; the other guileless, frank, and above board. One uses words to conceal opinions; the other uses words to proclaim them. Now at or near the close of a pretty long life, who has the wholesomest reputation for honor, honesty, and religion? Who by his present monied estate shows that he has been the best business man? The one that [the] world sometimes calls a great financier is bankrupt after having spent and squandered hundreds of thousands; the other probably after a settlement of all his affairs will have a handsome competence. 
12 Saw Judge Paige a few minutes on business. Then called upon Dr. Backus who talked on many points: 1st he still deprecates the opening the old sore of lottery and financial matters of Dr. N. by the Lowber lawsuit; thinks there is no need of it; should'nt go back to those old matters now long since settled and buried. 
Saw Miss Sarah Proudflt who gives as her final answer, that she cannot give more than 2000 D's. for the house occupied by her. Have had an offer of $2,500 and told her so. 
Saturday April 7, 1860. A little above and opposite my house a Mr. Knowlson has commenced to build a large 40 ft. square house of bricks. Other evidences of thrift are apparent in this part of the city. Miss Proudfit tells me she has made up her mind not to buy of 
College the house in which she lives, but to build one upon one of her 
lots. 
Directed Jackson and Thomson to notify Mrs. Cath. Riggs, Exec. 
of Isaac Riggs, that U. C. would hold her husbands estate responsible 
for the payment of his note. By Isaac's will, Stephen his son should 
pay this note. Stephen is dead and his property may not meet this 
demand. 
Called at two or three places to know if Schen. City Bonds would sell. 
Sunday April 8, 1860. Rain during night, cloudy but nothing more. I atttended Bapt. Ch. and heard Rev. Mr. Fox the younger, son of Rev. Norman Fox. Wrote to Doctor Foster of Clifton Spgs. to engage a room for Sarah Harvey, who is to be sent to the water cure. 
Monday April 9, 1860. Not cold, not clear, some signs of rain. Called upon several persons to find a purchaser for the City Bonds of Un. College. No success. 
Tuesday April 10, 1860. Rain, and signs of rain. Wind east, cold and raw. 12 CaHed on Mr. Deforrest, agent of Col. Campbell, and contracted to sell him 4000 to 6000 dolls. of Schen. City Bonds. Called upon Judge Paige to see when he would meet in Res[ident] Trustee Meeting; could not say then. 5 P.M. Called again on Judge P. and and Dr. Backus, who engaged to meet in Dr. N's study at 7 1/4 o'clock. 
7 1/2 o'clock. Dr. N., Dr. Backus and Judge Paige and self in Dr. N's study. Considered the following questions: . 1. Fence around College Garden. Repairs to the amount of not more than $25. ordered. 
2. Fence from front gate to (Dr. Lewis') South Coll. Ordered to be made according to the persons interested. 3. A burial lot for Dr. Proudfit on College ground. He had better be temporarily deposited in the Vale Cemetery till Trustees decide upon the place on Coll. grounds. 4. Shall Professors cows be charged for pasturage? Let them go. 5. How raise money for Nott Trust Fund Professors? Borrow of James Brown or Mohawk Bank. 6. Shall Proudfit house be sold? Yes, let Treasurer do the best he can, but deal kindly with the Misses Proudfits. 7. Shall the City Bonds owned by College be sold? Yes! if a better investment can be made. 8. Shall boys and men picknick, shoot, play ball &c&c., on College grounds? No. They must be warned off. 8 1/ 4 o'clock adjourned. 
Wednesday April 11, 1860. Threatening rain. At 8 o'clock went to Albany to look after the Bill in Legislature relating to the Hunter Point property and in the Assembly lobby found H. S. Anable. He came up this week to take Mr. Crane's place in engineering the Bill thro'. The pressure of business is so great now that there is some doubt whether the Bill can pass. Home at 12.20. 
Thursday April 12, 1860. Beautiful day. 11 o'clock to Surrogate's office to see if Mrs. Riggs had taken out letters of administration; found Judge Johnson busy in Court. Called on S. W. Jackson to ask if he had served the Acct. of Union College on Isaac Riggs Executrix, busy also in Court and nothing done. To D. D. Campbell's agent, Deforrest, to say I could not yet sell our City bonds to him. Home to dinner. 
Friday April 13, 1860. Windy. Saw Dr. N. several times today. He is comfortable in health but often refers to his early departure from this world, the end of his labors here; but at the same time he has the disposition to work that he ever had and in spite of Mrs. N's wishes will be dabbling in College matters. U. C. never was iná a more precarious state. She has an imbecile President, past his usefulness, who still holds on to the name and authority and a Vice P. who fears from his experience of the past to assume the labors of the Presidency. I fear we shall have growling and grumbling this summer. The Vice [President] will surely be censured for what [he] does and for what [he] does not. 
Saturday April 14, 1860. Windy and cool._._._At 8 o'clock Mother and John started for Hudson, went so far as Albany with them to transact some business in reference to a bond and mortgage on Rockefeller's Farm, 46 Albany. One Fowler of Columbia Co. owns the mortgage which U. C. is to purchase; he promised to be up with it today but disappointed us. Waited all day till 6. P.M. Met Dr. F.B. Hough in State Library; he says he is about to remove to Lowville and get a home for his family, which he cannot have in A[lbany] in a hired house. He told me of his literary projects: 1. His Hist. of Lewis Co. is about to issue from the press. 2. He has a farm book also just out. 3. He talks also of a biographical index &c&c. He is a hard worker, a man of good abilities. 
Spent several hours in looking over the Mass. Col[onial] Records, and making quotations. Then home. 
Sunday April 15, 1860. At home all day. 
Betw[een] Schenectady and New York Monday April 16, 1860. By the advise of Judge Paige I started this evening at 7.20 for Hunter Point to examine the state of affairs there and to audit the accounts of the land company. As Prof. Peissner goes down also, we have taken and occupy the same "State Room" containing two "bunks." Nothing worth noting happened in our way down out of the ordinary routine. 
New York City Tuesday April 1 7, 1860. Fog and a trifle of rain this morning, just enough to make the streets black with mud and water. By 10 the prospect brightened. We came down on the "Isaac Newton," arriving about 9 o'clock. As usual the "over-slaugh" detained us a couple of hours, but when once past that, our machinery did not cease to work till we landed in N.Y. 
Both Mr. Peissner and myself took rooms at the "International Hotel" over "Taylors" saloon, where rooms and beds are let for 1 doll. pr. day and meals are obtained [where] one chooses. Called first at Stewart's dry goods store, where saw cousin William Libbey who is the head superintendent of that great establishment; bought wife a dress (black silk), corded skirt, pr. gloves and Rose and Ellen (our two servant girls) a pr. of gloves each, and sent the package home by Express. Called at Fred J. Hosford's store, 57 and 59 William St., then off for Hunter Point where arrived at 12.30 P.M. and found Mr. Jonathan Crane. . 
The appearance of the Point is much changed in six months since I was here last, and for the better. During the afternoon Mr. Charles Ely, another of the partners, called and among other things talked over the plan of proceedure in case the property is placed in the hands of Union College in trust. Mr. Ely says an inventory 1st should be made of all the property, then certificates should be issued to the proprietors for this value according [to] each man's interest. These certificates can then be transferred, sold, or hypothecated and with them the lots can be bought at the valuation price. To this plan I objected as being liable to many evils. 1. One person cannot use up his "scrip" for buying up lots without throwing all the expence of management upon the remaining proprietors. 2. By this plan no provision is made for the expenses of management. 3. In case of too large valuation of lots, the person who last presents his "scrip" will find nothing to satisfy it. 4. In case of too low valuation of lots, the last "scrip" holder will have an excess of property. 5. In case of a rise of property the person who with "scrip" purchases a lot at the valuation gets it cheaper than another person for cash, thus de.priving the remaining proprietors of their share of the increased value. Came back to N. Y. at 7 o'clock, took my dinner and strolled about till bed time. 
New York City Wed. April 18, 1860. Fine day. Arose at 6, breakfast at 7, and off for Hunter Point at 7 1/2 where arrived at 8 1/2 and commenced the examination of securities, debts, lots sold, hypothecated bonds and mortgages, footings of cash book, &c. H. S. Anable is the Cashier of the company and book-keeper. So far as I can see, his accounts are kept accurately. Saw Mr. Ely again and discussed the plan of representing the property by certificates. It is pretty evident that he has not examined the matter in all its bearings. He and Mr. Crane, being embarrassed, are desirous of getting some evidences of value that will pay or stave off their debts. These certificates, which are to be issued upon the property, are supposed to be so valuable when once the property comes into the hapds of Un. College thereby rendering the business stable and not subject to the contingences of the death of the parties, that almost any of their creditors will be glad to exchange their notes for lots and thus clear off their indebtedness at once. 
Thursday April 19; 1860. Fine day. At Hunter Point all day looking over accounts. There are many things that might be bettered: some leaks might be stopped, more economy might be used, &c., but on the whole the business is well managed. This evening attended the Opera "La Somnambula" at the Acadamy of Music. A splendid room, fashionable audience, and I suppose a fine choir of singers altho' I must confess I did [not] appreciate it. The prima donna seemed to imitate the "yowling" of a cat, and the leading male singer the bellowing of a bull. 
N. Y. and Home Friday April 20, 1860. Started this morning in a small rain which soon cleared away and for home by the Harlem R. Road arriving at Albany at 3.40 and home at 5.40. All well and thankful for it. 
Saturday April 21, 1860. Nothing notable about College. Dr. Nott about as usual. 
Sunday April 22, 1860. Some snow, sleet and rain this morning. At Bapt. Ch. this morning. Rev. Mr. Day preached. 
Monday April 23, 1860. Pleasant day. At 8 o'clock to Albany to see Mr. Richardson respecting taking up Crane and Ely's note for $5,000, now in the hands of Mrs. Edwd. James as collateral to the mortgages upon Joel B. Nott's farm. This note was pledged by Dr. N. and it was promised that it should be taken up if Mr. Richardson would interpose no obstacle to the passage of the late law putting it in the power of the Hunter Point proprietors to place the property in the hands of U. C. I am to go down on Thurs. when the note and certificates of trust are to be handed over and an assignment of the bonds and mortgages [is] to be made to C. N. Potter by order of Dr. N. Called also upon Mr. S. 0. Shepherd, Mrs. James attorney, on the same business. Mr. R[ichardson] is her friend and adviser. Called at Sec. State's office and compared the law with a printed copy, also ordered.a certified copy to be sent to Mr. Jona. Crane, and paid 2 dolls. for it. Then home at 12.20. 
Tuesday April 24, 1860. Cool and windy. Geo. Gilbert, my clerk, has gone to Saratoga Springs to consult Doct. S.S. Strong about his wife's throat. Spent yesterday and today some hours in looking over books for the Union School Library at our two bookstores. Saw that unusual phenomen[on] this evening betw. 8 and 9 o'clock --the eclipse of Venus by the moon, a very beautiful sight. 
Wednesday April 25, 1860. Snow storm. 11 o'clock A. M. Sold to D. 
D. Campbell thro' his agent Forrest, the 6000 dolls. in City bonds of Schenectady for 6023 dolls. including 20 days int[erest]. Deposited the same in Schen. Bank and drew up a ck. for $5101.11 to take up Crane & Ely's note held by Mrs. Ann James of Albany. This done for Dr. Nott: he receives the note and gives bonds and mortgages for the amount to Union College. Called on Dr. Backus and talked over school matters. 4 o'clock Met Dr. B. and Mr. Bennett, Un. Sch. Superintendent, for an hour; talked over school matters, particularly the grading system. 
Albany Thursday April 26, 1860. Cool and windy, snow on ground. At 8 o'clock started for Albany to make arrangement to take up a note of 5000$ given by Crane & Ely to Dr. Nott and by him pledged with Edwd. James to secure the payment of certain bonds and mortgages upon J. B. Notts farm in Guilderland. Called upon Mr. Richardson, Mrs. Ed. James' business friend, and made appointment to meet him at S. 0. Shepherd's office at 10 o'clock. 10 to 121/2 o'clock calculating, examining, finally paid the money due on the $5000 note and int[erest] from Jan. 1/60 to Ap. 14, inst., which amounts to $5101.11. 1 Took up Crane & Ely's $5000 note to E. N. 2 Four other notes of Ch. Ely for 1250$ ea. given as is said for the 1st note. 3 Ten one-thousand dollar certificates issued by L. K. Ely upon tp.e Hunter Point property and pledged for the payment of the Notes. 4 An assignment of the 2nd mortgage upon J. B. Nott's farm to C. N. Potter by E. N. 's order. 5 Ben. Nott's bond to Edw. James. 6 A memo. of payment &c. by S. 0. Shepherd. 1 o'clock Took lunch and spent the time till 5 o'clock in State Libr. looking over Mass. Col[onial] Records. Home again. 
7 1/2 at Dr Backus' study to meet Mr. Bennett, Superintendent of Un. Sch., to discuss the grading of the school &c. Home at 10 o'clock. 
Friday April 21, 1860. Cool. All day in office. Fae. meeting at 5 o'clock P. M. Present: President Nott, Vice Pres. Hickok, Profs. Jackson ,Lewis, Gillespie, Newman, Peissner, Chandler, Pearson; .Tutor .Deremer. Arranged for course of studies, discussed absences from morning prayers &c. and adjourned. 

Saturday April 28, 1860. Students are returning. But one thing for me to do --to receive term bills and register names. 
Sunday April 29, 1860. Beautiful day. At home with wife. 
Monday April 30, 1860. Fine day. All day at the "receipt of custom." Dr. and Mrs. N. went to Albany this P. -M. He is very much shattered in mind by age and the paralysis one year ago. It is doubted by his friends whether he ought to attempt any business about College, tho' he desires still to do something. His resignation some years since would have been well for College; two heads cannot act happily together, and this holding on after all efficiency is past does not tell for the prosperity of the institution. 
Tuesday May 1, 1860. Fine day --prospect of rain, which is much needed. 2 o'clock P. M. Met my 1st class in Botany. 
Father Harvey is trying to sell his house. Tom Carter contracted for it yesterday but this morning "backed out." Tomorrow he starts with Sarah Harvey for Clifton Springs water cure. She is a perfectly bedridden and a burthen to herself and friends. 
School Commissioners election today --an important day for the prosperity of our Union School. Jno. W. Veeder elected in my place in 3d. Ward. After serving four years I am heartily glad to retire from this place. 
2. P. M. Met Botany class --20 in number. Paying salaries, taking term bills, registering names, getting the wheels a going for a new session. 
Wednesday May 2, 1860. Fine day. Office and Rec. Room work. Richd. Horsfall, commonly called "Dick Horsfall," a notoriously pro.fligate and wicked young man, was killed today upon the R. Road near the city. He has lately served as brakesman upon the freight trains. He was thrown from the top of a baggage or freight van and several loaded waggons passed over him litterally cutting him to a shapeless mass. He died instantly. 
At. 8 o'clock Father and Mother Harvey left by the R. Road for Clifton Springs with Sarah. This is a last trial to gain relief for her; now 5 months she has lain upon her bed until nearly bed-ridden. 
Thursday May 3, 1860. Warm day, dry, great cry for rain and prophecies of grass and grain failure. Two notable events now interest public attention and talk. The great bruising match between the noted fighters Sayres and Heenan and the Charleston Convention. Both are disgraceful exhibitions of human depravity and show how little Christianity is carried into the common business of life. Matters about College are getting into the usual working order and slide along as well as could be expected when it is known that we have no effective head. 
Friday May 4, 1860. Fine warm day, dry and smoky. Office work and recitation. Nothing new. 
Saturday May 5, 1860. Warm, dry, smoky; great need of rain. Dr. N. loaned 450$ to Jno. and Fanny Daly in 1854 on security of mortgage on their house in Liberty St. for the purpose of paying up the purchase money. On this mortgage there is due $320. She desires now to pay this obligation with $200., and to oblige the Dr. to take this sum, has executed a mortgage to her bro. for $700 which is placed upon record for the purpose of cutting off the prior mortgage carelessly left unrecorded. This case of sharp practice is worthy of a "Tombs Shyster." She wants me to see Dr. N. and make the offer and report to her. She called at 10 o'clock and I tried to make her feel the dishonesty of the act, but to no effect. She claims no offset against the Drs. mortgage but only wants to have it so. Reported her state of mind to Dr. N. and left the matter with him. 
Dr. N. says the controversy with the Regents of Univ. was originally a political affair altogether and not aimed against U. C. or himself. Judge Duer, he says, was a political opponent of Governor and Henry Yates, who were Trustees of Coll. and, for the purpose of attacking them, he attacked the College! I do not exactly see the force of the remark. The Dr. says that he wrote all the replies and conducted the whole controversy for Gov. Yates and beat the opponents. In these matters perhaps the Dr's. memory is not always exact. 
4 1/2 o'clock. Walked with wife to Vale Cemetery. Call from Mrs. Prof. Averill. 
Sunday May 6, 1860. Warm, dry, dusty, smoky. 6 P.M. Attend Bapt. Ch. --communion of the Lords supper. Rev. Norman Fox preached in the morning. For some years he has been disabled from disease and has preached but seldom. Schen. has been his residence from its advantages for the education of his children. It is understood that he is interested with others in large lumber operations west, and is now about to remove to Painted Post where he has two sons superintending the sawing of boards and other lumber. "Elder Fox" was a student of U .C. and has been a useful and influential minister; his removal from Schen. is much regretted by the ch[urch]. 
Monday May 7, 1860. Very warm, dry and "smudgy." The air is filled with dust and smoke so that the distant hills are hidden as by a fog. 9 to 10 Opened Library. 12 To Bank, met Dr. Backus. 2 to 3 Rec. in Botany, large class. 
This evening lightning and thunder, some rain, with south wind. Rain never was more needed at this time of the year. 
Tuesday May 8, 1860. For many months I have known what it seems can be no longer concealed from her friends --an incurable disease knawing at the vitals of my sister Mary; for two years she has had a cancer in her right breast but with her remarkably fine constitution and robust health, has withstood the disease and racking pain till now. Today I received a telegram from bro-in-law Magoun saying she could live but a few hours and asking Mother to come down. At five Mr. James Gifford came also to announce the same sad tidings and if necessary to accompany Mother. At 7 .20 we started by 
R.R. and after a long tedious passage by the Hudson Riv. freight train reached H[udson] at eleven o'clock. Found sister asleep. At one o'clock laid down. 
Hudson and Union College Wednesday May 9, 1860. Signs of rain. This morning at 9 o'clock saw my sister for the first time since her severe attack, but Oh! how changed! Even so late as the middle of March when at Schen. she look[ ed] the picture of health and no one would have suspected that she had not years before her; now her mind is affected, she knows no one, not even her own mother; the brain is involved in the disease and she lies in a stupor. Dr Burham says this will be likely to increase: that there is no probability that her symptoms will be more favorable and that she may not live 24 hours. So pass away our cherished ones --so fade our hopes and joys. Well is it if they may bloom again in a better world where no such pains and sorrows invade our peace! 
11 Left Hudson to return home: how sad a leave-taking it was! I could hardly realize that I had looked for the last time upon one whom for 43 years I had known as a kind and affectionate sister and friend. 1 o'clock At home. 
Thursday May 10, 1860. Cloudy, cool but no rain. 9 o'clock A. M. News from Hudson is that sister remains about as when we left, altho' weaker. 8 P. M. News again that sister has less fever and remains quiet without the use of morphine and at one little lucid moment knew Mother. It is a selfish and shortsighted philosophy which sorrows without comfort in the parting of friends in this world. In the death of cherished dear ones, the Christian view draws consolation from the grave. Oh how sweet the thought that they have only gone before to welcome us home. Death is only the narrow bridge that seperates loved ones for a brief space. 
U.C.and Hudson Friday May 11, 1860. Fine day The usual bulletin came from Hudson that Marianne is growing weaker constantly; yesterday she had lucid moments when she knew Mother and other friends. Feeling a desire to see her once more alive even if too sick to recognize me, I shall go down tonight starting at 7.20 P. M. This train will leave me there at about 11 o'clock. 
Hudson Saturday May 12, 1860. Beautiful day --but very dry and dusty. This has been a sad day: as I write my sister is no more; at 1/2 past 2 o'clock P. M. she passed away without a pang or a struggle. On the whole I cannot but feel that it is a happy release, a most desirable transition from pain and sorrow to a bright and happy world. That life to her would be a burden without hope of alleviation was most certain; no human aid could reach her case; what then had she to live for? To die was gain. Oh! happy soul in the bosom of her Heavenly Father! May we all be prepared to follow, for soon our turn will come and how soon none may know. It is less than two years since our dear Henry passed away from earth; now another dear one has followed him. 
3 1/2 P. M. With mother started for home and reached there at 6 o'clock, found all well save Father who is evidently failing in health and strength. 
Sunday May 13, 1860. Fine day. At home with wife all day. Tomorrow we propose to go down to Hudson and stay till after the funeral, which is to be held on Tuesday P. M. .
Hudson Monday May 14, 1860. This morning wife and I started at 9.45 for Hudson on our sad errand: to bury my dear and only sister. The face of nature was little in harmony with my feelings. The day was fine and every object seemed to rejoice in the bright sunlight and sweet odors of flowers. The opening beauties of spring speak of life and joy; my journey has for its object and its occasion a sad contrast to all this. I find that Mr. Magoun and Marianne ha[ve] many and warm friends in Hudson; few young people without family influence and connexions have in 20 yrs. earned so decided respect and love. Two families are especially attentive, the Giffords and Falgers. It seems impossible for them to do enough. Others have offered their service but these have alone been accepted. 
Tuesday May 15, 1860. Fine day, dry and dusty, air full of smoke from burning woods around. By 11 o'clock the body was deposited in a plain but neat mahogany coffin with open front or top showing not only the head but the bust; the corps[e] was dressed in a dark robe, the hair was arranged much as in life and white roses were placed in the hair and upon the coffin. This arrangement is new to me, yet the effect is good. The silver plate upon the coffin had the following inscription: Mrs. Marianne Magoun died May 12, 1860 aged 43 yrs. 2 mos. 11 days. 
The funeral services commenced at 2 o'clock at the house by the reading of passages of scripture appropriate to the occasion by the Rev. Mr. Ulyat, the Bapt. Minister, followed by a prayer by Rev. Mr. Day of Schenectady who came down for this occasion. Mr. Ulyat then made a short address and Doctor Demarest of the Dutch Ch. closed with prayer. The following persons acted as bearers: Theodore Miller Esq., P. S. Wynkoop, W. W. Hannah, C. P. Collier Esq, A. S. Rowley Esq, Augustus McKinstry, R. B. Morell Esq, R.B.Shepherd. 
The Services closed at the house at 3 o'clock and the procession of carriages moved to the cemetery upon the Hill where the body was deposited in a new tomb or receiving vault to await further disposal. My sister's wish was to be buried in a family burying lot in Schenectady and her wishes will probably be carried out. Thus ended the last sad tokens of respect and love for our dear friend --an only sister! She was characterized by good plain common sense, honesty of purpose, sincere friendship, a consideration for others and a consequent forgetfulness of self. She was a notable housekeeper, neat, orderly, and precise almost to a fault; she looked well to her household and was industrious and painstaking beyond what her position[s] and means seemed to require. Her Christian character was the loveliest of her virtues; for 25 yrs. she has been a member of the Bapt. Ch., fulfilling in every station, all the requirements of a true disciple of Christ, and adorning the doctrines of Xianity with a well.ordered life and conversation. 
At. 9.20 P.M. with wife and boys (who came down this morning) started for home where arrived at 12 o'clock. 
Wednesday May 16, 1860. Fine day, smoky, dry. My father is feeble, weak, and feverish, so much so that neither he nor Mother could attend the funeral of my sister yesterday. 9 to 10 Opened the Library. 2 to 3 Botany class. Saw Dr. N. and Mrs. N. Mrs. Paige called at 10 o'clock P. M. with dau[ghter] Clara who has just come down from Clifton Spgs. and reports s_ome gratifying progress in the cure of Sarah Harvey. 
Thursday May 17, 1860. Fine day. 9 to 10 In Library for students' accomodation. 11 to 1 In town looking after the interest of College in the estates of Isaac and S. S. Riggs; presented a petition to Judge Johnson, Surrogate, for letters of adm-istration?] to be taken out on the estate of the latter. Saw Judge Paige and had conversation about the Lowber suit and about the Hunter Point Property. 2 to 3 Botany Rec. 
Friday May 18, 1860. Fine day, a little rain last night, only enough to lay dust but nothing more. The complaint on all sides is want of rain. 10.30 A. M. In town, to P. office and paid bill. Saw Ramsay. Bought flowers for Henry's grave. Talked with Alderman Graham about the opening of Liberty St. East of Coll. Terrace. 
Fa[ther] Harvey got home from New York. News from Sarah Harvey is that she is getting along finely. Mrs. Nott went to Rhinebeck. The Dr. says he was going too, but the prospect of rain this morning caused "Urany" to forbid it. He says 'he is completely under "Urany"'s thumb now and has to do just as she says. 
2 to 3 Botany class. Analysed Aschlus hypoc. Viola pubescens and cucullata, Lupinus perennis, and Thatictrum Anemonoides. Met Doctor Backus, had a talk about my sister's departure, about her conversion in 1834 and about the school-matters. Saw Rev. Mr. Day. 
6 o'clock Edw. Magoun came tonight. Prospects of rain. Wind south. 
Saturday May 19, 1860. Some rain last night and this morning: a very grateful relief to the parched ground. Called upon Miss Sarah Proudfit and offered her a loan upon her property for the purpose of helping her build a house. 
Made a deposite of 500$ in Bank to credit of U. C. Had a talk with Judge Paige on loans, and on the Vale Property now desired by the Cemetery Association. Had a talk with Wm. Van Vranken about the value of the Proudfit farm, near North Hall. 
2 P. M. With Dr. Hickok rode out to the twine factory, 2 ms. south of the city to attend the funeral of Mrs. Crane, wife of H. M. C[rane], son of Jona. C. A large number of citizens present. Dr. Backus officiated, and the body was buried in Vale Cemetery. Talked with Judge P[aige] and Dr. Hickok about a college cemetery, also with Prof. G[illespie]. All agreed that the Vale is the proper place for it, not back of College on College land. Dr. Backus also thinks so. No one, it seems, opposes this except Mrs. N[ott]. 
Edward Magoun returned tonight to Hudson. Mr. G. Gilbert, my clerk, goes to Saratoga Spg. to visit his wife. 
Sunday May 20, 1860. High cold west wind --with prospect of Sunday frost tonight. At home with wife. 
Monday May 21, 1860. Cold, rainy unpleasant day, more like April than May. Mr. Gilbert returned from Saratoga Spgs. this morning. 
Received this P. M. Vols. 1, 11 of Savage's Geneal[ogical] Diet. of 
N.E. --an appalling mass of information which one would say had cost a life-time of labor to collect. Some oddities about the book will make occasions for the critics .. 
Saw Jona. Crane, talked abt. the "Point" property. Paige is to "get up" the deed to College, &c. Dr. N. sent twice for me: nothing of importance. He says "Urany" manages him completely; he has'nt any longer an opinion of his own. He has a second mortgage on Jno. Daly's lot and ho[use] --fears he may lose by it and is uncertain what to do. All the result of negligence --not putting his mortgage on record. 
Tuesday May 22, 1860. Cool morning and cloudy. Cleared away and warm before night. 11 Called upon Judge Paige; he says next week he will consider the drawing up of the deed from the Hunter Land O:>. to U. C. &tc. 
Dr. N. called into the Treas. office alone --quite tottering and weak. Botany at 2 to 3 P.M. Analysed Mitella diphylla and Polygala pancifolia: pretty good class and good number. 
Wednesday May 23, 1860. Fine day. R. W. Lowber was here yesterday and left this morning. When he comes, his influences are always felt afterwards. Mrs. N. sent for me; she said L[owber] had taken breakfast with them, had talked with the Dr. and her on the business in litigation between him, Brown, and Coll. The Dr. was agitated; so was she still more and was disposed to take a gloomy view of the matter. She would rather College should lose the $60,000 due from L. than that by this suit Dr. N's feelings should be injured. She regards certain of the Trustees as his (Dr. Nott's) enemies and ready at any time to do what would injure his reputation and character, and intimated that they were trying to break the Dr's. Trust Deed! Absurd idea! 
I told her I did not believe a soul among the Trustees or Fae. desired to injure a hair of the old man's head, that so far from trying to break the Trust Deed, they were trying to make it good; that Mr. Lowber threatened to break it if he could not have his way in this suit. Then came the old current complaint that for the last 8 yrs. the Dr. had been thwarted in all his doings, that a set of men had suspected him, and opposed him &c&c .. Judge P[aige] she thought had no business to take this suit with L. into his own hands and go on without authority of the Board. I said that Judge P. did not originate the suit, that James Brown commenced it, Mr. Lowber followed and 
U. Coll. was forced to answer or lose the case by default -and so on! 
Went down and called on Dr. Backus who is a friend of Dr. N's unsuspected and acknowledged. Said to him that I was sorry Mrs. N. had got such ideas respecting up [ us?] --such suspicions &c., and that she ought to be told better. He says he saw Lowber yesterday and that he told him Dr. N. spent 800 and odd thousand dolls. in the Bristol Mine which at simple int[erest] at this time would amount to $1,020,000; that he could have sold it at one time for $250,000 and he urged him to do so but he would not; that the lime business -.Bald Mountain --had paid something; that he (L.) had paid Dr. N. all that he had expended on it. Dr. B. says L. spent all last evening till 11 o'clock with Judge P. urging a compromise of the suit, based as he says on Coll's giving up the bonds and mortgages on property outside of Tompkins St., L. paying all the rest. This morning L. goes to Saratoga Spgs. probably to see Chancellor Walworth. 
On the whole, the upshot of this business seems to be that Dr. N's friends --some of them at least --are willing to let Coll. interest suffer no matter to what extent, provided only Dr. N's feelings are spared and Judge P[aige] must carry on not only the suit ag[ains]t L. but carry also the obloquy of trying to asperse the old man's character under pretence of acting for Coll. 
1 1/2 o'clock P. M. Saw Dr. Hickok and said to him that I thought it would be better for the purpose of stopping talk against Judge Paige's management of the Lowber suit, that he call a few of the lawyers of the Board together and consult as to the management of it; they of course would essentially agree with him as to the conduct of the case, and then no farther twaddle would be had about his trying to injure Dr. N. 
Thursday May 24, 1860. Very fine day. Arranged with Dr. Nott to save for him his small mortgage on Jno. Daly's lot. Jno's wife in con.nection with her bro. Lanny of Auburn have contrived a plot to force the Dr. into taking less than the face of the mortgage, which not having been put upon record, they have cooked up another and put in ahead of the prior lien: fortunately, since Lanny knew of its existence his mortgage cannot take priority except in the hands of an innocent holder. 
P. M. Measuring the Proudfit lots 6 and 7 on Union St. in block of lots bounded by Union St., Edwards, Nott, and Park Places. Sarah and Eliza Proudfit propose to build on 7. College lends them $1600 upon these and a little farm lot of 13 ac. out beyond North Hall. Andrew McMullen called and offered $2,250 for the Proudfit house and lot. I take time to consider and give him an answer in a few days. 
Friday May 25, 1860. Fine day. All forenoon down town, variously engaged but cheifly examining Co. Clerk's records in regard to the Proudfit title to lots on which Miss Sarah and Eliza desire to borrow 1600 Ds. to build a new home w[hich] they propose to build on their western-most lot No. 7. and sell No. 6. 
Paid Jno. Strong, Mrs. Craig's agent, 105 d's. int[erest] on 
Harvey bond and mortgage and 8 d's. for other int[erest] and 
insurance. Wrote a petition for G. W. Veeder to circulate, for 
Com[mon] Council to open and grade Liberty St. &c. Tried to see 
Judge P. who, being engaged in the 2nd Dutch Church controversy or 
suit, could not be talked to. Dr. Backus also is engaged. 
Mrs. Edmonds (Jno.) of Utica came down today; called upon her 
at Dr. N's. Clarkson N. Potter, Dr. N's grandson, called today; he goes 
to Europe in June, to be gone with his family a year. Elipht. N. Potter. 
his bro., is also here at Dr. N's. 
I hear that Jno. Nott, the Dr's son now in Goldsboro N.C. is sick of the Haemoteria, the writer of the letter to Dr. N. says. What this is nobody knows, some trouble or disease of the blood, it is supposed. _ 
We are carrying, in lead pipe, the water from our aqueduct over to N. College. 
Saturday May 26, 1860. Rain in the afternoon and until 8 o'clock at night. Mrs. Edmonds returned tonight. Miss Cynthia Sheldon came from Phil[adelphia] at noon. Called upon her this evening. 
Saw Dr. N. He desires me to see Judge P. and ask him to go down to N.Y. next week and see 'what can be done with Judson, who is going to Europe next week. He owns 1/9 of Hunter and Green Pt. property and is giving great trouble by refusing to sign deeds and coincide with the other owners in their acts. Unless he leaves an attorney to act for him in his absence, we can make no sales and must ask for a division of the property. Saw Judge P. and he says he will go down on Wed. or Thurs. 
Had a severe "clawing" from Mrs. Daly, Dr. Nott's mortgagor, because as she says I have traduced her character in lawyer Jackson's office, by saying that the mortgage to her bro. Wm. Larny was a sham for the purpose of coercing Dr. N. to take less than his due. Made up my mind that it is best to have nothing [to do] with women in business matters, also to let others manage their own concerns. 
Sunday May 2 7, 1860. Rainy-like, but not much rain. Cloudy all day and wind from south. Jno. P[earson] went to Hudson yesterday morning to visit his cousin Edwd. Magoun. 
Monday May 28, 1860. Fine shower this afternoon. 9 o'clock Library. 2 P.M. Botany Recitation. Miss Cynthia Sheldon left for home this P. M. 
Tuesday May 29, 1860. Fine day. 9 to 10 In Library. 10 to 11 By appointment met Judge McQueen with Holliday and C. Reagles where Terrace St. crosses "Coehorn Creek" to determine where the line runs between the McGowan estate and College Land. He (Judge McQueen) agreed that the fence for the present at least should be run from A to B. 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
altho he thought that at some time old Mrs. Mc Gowan told him she 
thought the fence anciently run from A to E. This being happily concluded, went back to office. 
All the afternoon running back and forward trying to reconcile two purchases or rather persons aspiring to be purchasers. A. McMullen and G. B. Van Yoast both desire to buy the Proudfit house for 2,500 d's. The first offered 2250 D's. some days since and obtained the refusal as he supposed at any greater price which might be offered; the second offered the 2500 D's. and claims the house because a higher bid than the former, who now claims the purchase by offering the price asked. That he had the refusal he proves by Julius Myers and I have thought it best to let him have it. 
8 Witnessed contract betw. Misses Proudfits and Jno. Hilts and Brignall and Van Zandt, for the building of their house upon Lot No. 7. 
Wednesday May 30, 1860. Indications of rain tonight. Saw G. B. VanVoast and explained as well as I could the superior claim of A. McMullen to the Proudfit House. 
Saw Judge Paige and spoke about his going to N. Y. on business of the Hunter Point business. He goes tomorrow. Lowber has sent the Finance Com. a circular asking to have an early meeting appointed to hear his case again --a persevering fellow; he has already told his story once or twice. 
Dr. and Mrs. N. returned from Sand Lake at noon today. He is much troubled about Judson's going away to Europe and leaving the Hunter Point [matter?] unsettled. He deprecates a quarrel betw. him and Crane & Ely, thinks he could manage him if he could see him &c. 
Thursday May 31, 1860. Showery. Prepared deed, bond and mortgage. for Andr. McMullen, for the Proudfit House, to be executed tomorrow. 11 o'clock Called on Judge Paige and 1st. Gave him a letter from Dr. Nott to Wm. Judson of New York, which the 
Judge will deliver. I:. Took his advice on the matter of Morse & Reed's insurance which was, if they do not comply with terms immediately, the mortgage is at once to be foreclosed. 3. I asked also whether it would be well for me as Treas. of U. C. to administer on the estate of 
S. S. Riggs in case Coll. were a party to a suit ag[ains]t the estate. {Judge P{aige] thought the Treas. should not be adm[inistrator. Suggested Allen H. Jackson or Mr. Geo. Gilbert. 4. He desired the 40,000 doll. bond and mortgage of C[rane and] E[ly] for the purpose of making out the deed or contract for Ely and Judson, to U. C., to them, to him; also assignt. from E. N[ott] to U. C. 
Paid bills to Cain Crockery, Merch't. $4.25 and to McCamus & Co. $4.23: $8.48. Also called on S.S. Riggs and learned that his Uncle Brown of Esperance declines to stand bail for Mrs. S. S. R. Senr. as adm[inistrato]r. of the estate of her husband. When relatives refuse this last act for the benefit of poor man's estate and family, who then can they call on? Saw A. McMullen and settled terms of bond and mortgage: tomorrow the papers are to be exchanged. 
2 to 3. Botany Class. Analyzed the following flowers: Cornus Stolorifera, Aquilegia Canadensis, Staphylea trifolia. 
This evening called on Mrs. Fonda and her daughter, Mrs. Andrews of Johnstown Col[umbia?] Co., N. Y. in Lafayette St.: on Mrs. Lewis (Dr. Lewis), and Prof. and Mrs. Newman on "the Hill." 
Friday June 1, 1860. Showery all day. All forenoon at Surrogates' Office arranging for taking out letters in the case of S. S. Riggs estate. The matter was settled by the widow's associating with her Allen H. Jackson in the administration, myself and A J. Thomson standing bail for them. 
Talked with Ed. Rosa, A. J. Thomson et al. about the Vale propertyá for "Vale Cemetery." This association evidently want it but are not disposed to pay more than one half of its value. A J. T. says it is worth $200 pr. acre and offered 125$. Gillespie says ----"----has ordered a paragraph to be inserted in the Catalogue calling the Laboratory "Nott. Anal[ytical] Labor[atory]" and saying that in the N[ott] T[rust] deed 40,000 D's is appropriated for scholarships in the Lab. G[illespie] says it quite unwise to have it printed and will do us injury. Judge P. yesterday spoke of the same thing in decided disapprobation. 
Saturday June 2, 1860. A perfect day. 10 to 11 1/2 With Gillespie and Peissner walked upon "Prospect Hill" south of Colleges to see how much of it should be reserved in case the Vale should be sold to "Vale Cemetery." 2 to 3 Went to town, to Jackson & Thomson's office, 
home to dinner and 4 to 6 rode to "Aqueduct" with wife. 
Sunday June 3, 1860. Fine day. To Bapt. Ch. in P. M. Communion 
season. 
Monday June 4, 1860. Fine warm day, prospect of rain at night. 9 to 10 Library. 11 o'clock With Henry Ramsay Esq. over "Prospect Hill" and the Vale, and asked his opinion of value of same pr. acre. He proposes to pay for his triangular lot by Van Brant's house by giving a bond and mortgage which he holds. R. is a very plausible, polite, a little pompous man, but strictly honorable so far as I know in all his dealings. 
Saw Mcchesney at one o'clock and asked what was his offer for the triangular lot between his lot and Terrace St. Did not want that alone but all betw. his lot and Terrace on west, and Vale Avenue on the north, for which would give $1000, perhaps a little more. 
3 to 4 Jos. B. Graham has bo' t Fa[ther] Harvey's ho[use] for 2500 D's., two hundred down and $800. Sept. 1. when possession is given 7c. He is off for N. York tonight. 
Tuesday June 5, 1860. Fine rain last night and this A.M. 9 to 10 In Library: a mean, meager, good-for-nothing Library unworthy of the Coll. and its Trustees. It has never been ----"----s policy to buy books; he never had any of his own, nor used them much. 
9 1/2 Henry S. Anable of Hunter's Point came into office. The occasion of his coming being, as he says, the hearing of a case before Judge Potter in which he is interested. He says the Trust Deed from Hunter and Green Point proprietors to Un. College has been signed by all but the College, that Judge Paige will lay it before the Trustees next July for their approval and the Trust will then be perfected. He thinks Judson is not such a bugaboo as Mr. C[rane] tries to make him and that he is not an unreasonable man if kindly approached. 
A[nabel] talked most about the propriety of purchasing back from Flushing R. Road of their dock and road which will probably be abandoned for the new track of the Long Island R. R. Co. Mr. Litchfield, he says, is anxious to come to terms and to locate the Long Island R. R. but complains that Mr. C[rane] will neither do anything, nor say anything. A[nabel] thinks the Land Co. should immediately come to terms with Litchfield, but for some reason C.[rane] does not think it best to make haste. 
12 Called on Dr. Backus, who told me a batch of their troubles in the Bd. of Education where certain new members as usual have a world of reforms to make which after all do not amount to much: 
B[ackus] thinks Stanton, Prof. in the Classical Depart[ment], will not long remain if he is not relieved of some of his labors in that room: and proposes as an experiment to make him principal of the whole sch[ool]. B. also spoke of the growing dissatisfaction against N. [Newman?] in Coll. on account of his laziness and inefficiency. 
Wednesday June 6, 1860. Fine bright day. 10 o'clock Saw Dr. Backus, he spoke particularly of want of moral and religious discipline in College, the section officers neglecting their duties in that respect. Students, he says, neglect ch. and concoct deviltry on the Sabbath. I spoke about finances: how much might be saved by having entrance fees paid into Coll. instead of to President, also about renting No. Hall, and stopping the College P. 0. --to all of which suggestions [Backus] assented as wise but we both agreed in saying these reforms could not be carried out in Dr. N's. time. He says boldly the sections officers do not do the work for which they are paid. 
Wrote a petition to Board of Health for Mr. Sedgwick, asking them to abate the nuisance created by burning bricks a little south of us. Saw Dr. N. --he seems not so. well as usual; his mind is unmanageable; he can not recall what he wants to remember, nor collect his thought upon one thing, but wanders and hesitates to such a degree as is painful. Poor old man, his labors are nearly ended. He spoke much as Backus did upon the want of discipline in U. 
C. but does not seem to see that there can not profitably be two heads; between the two, College falls thro' and nothing is done. 
Thursday June 7, 1860. Fine showers this P. M. Profs. J[ackson] and G[illespie] are particularly moved by the report that one J. G. Beckwith Jr. ,of Litchfield, Conn., lately in College, is coming back. His conduct has been so violent heretofore that it became necessary to send him away and it advisable on all accounts that he should stay away. Dr. N. says he has nothing to say about it ; he has nothing more to to with College discipline; and Hickok on the other hand says he does not like to take the responsibility when it is not laid upon him and, if it were, does not also bring the power with it. It is probable a faculty meeting may be called to consult in regard to the matter. 
2 to 3 Botany class and analysed Thaspium aureum Achillea Millefo lia. 
Made a statement of all payments to John Nott by U.Coll. to Aug 1854 --$13,810. in all. Also statement of amount paid by Dr. N. from Aug 1. '54 to Aug 1 '57, $2,400. Poor John! he is sick and good for nothing and probably no longer able to preach or do anything else. What will be done with him, I know not. 
This evening at 7 o'clock with Aldermen Gillespie and VanEps of the Comm. on Roads and Bridges walked over the ground laid out for East Liberty St., New Street, Terrace etc. to see what was best to be done with these improvements. The main difficulty with all alterations in and abt. the City is the want of money. 
Friday June 8, 1860. A little rain and cool. 10 o'clock called upon Judge Paige and talked 1st about the Trust Deed from Hunter Point proprietors to U. Coll. This he says was accomplished with trouble from the only one who was expected to object --Wm. Judson, the Rubber Man. He saw Lowber also and J. Barbour, his lawyer, with whom he arranged for Judge Willard as refer([r]ee in the suit 
The Judge suspects from what Lowber said that in his last visit to Dr. N. he promised among other things to finish off Dr. N's house for him if the suit went in his (L's) favor, hoping thus to get Dr. and Mrs. N's influence with their particular friends among the Trustees' to effect a settlement advantageous to himself. This same thing I suspected long since from what I gathered in my conversation with Mrs. N. Got a printed copy of Lowbers pleading from Judge P. Judge 
P. gave me a formal offer by Vale Cemetery of 1500 D's. for the Vale consisting of 20 acres of land. They cannot have it for that; the price is ridiculous. 
Dr Hickok wants to borrow $1000 to help a friend and offers a bond and mortgage. He showed me, I should think, a list of at least 15,000 of bonds and mortgages and say 5,000 D's. in notes. Promised to take a bond and mortgage loan, $1,000. 
J[ackson] and G[illespie] are greatly exercised by the presence of Beckwith about Coll. and a Faculty Meeting was called to consider the matter. The resolution offered banished him from Coll. at once. All desired his departure but some wished as mild means as possible to effect it. I read a clause in the Charter which renders it impossible for the Fac[ulty] to expel any student; only the Board of Trustees can do that. The Fae. can suspend, no more. This seemed a new idea; no one had seen it before. Some called it an old good-for-nothing law &c., but finally the resolution was amended so as to state the opinion of the Fae. that B[eckwith] should not stay in Coll. Dr. N. was not present. All the rest of Fae. were except Tutor Gordon. 
Saturday June 9, 1860. Cool but clear &c. Engaged all day in : 1st Printing from zincographic Press a couple of mottoes for Dr. Nott, to which he subscribes his name as an autograph: 11Perseverantia Vincit omnia nee non in glorian ducit," and "Favor is deceitful: beauty is vain; but &c&c. 120 copies. And 2nd Putting wards in all our Recitation room locks to prevent their being opened by a bunch of keys stolen by some student from the sweeper. 
Sunday June 10, 1860. Cool and windy. This morning our bell.ringer called to say that the Library had been entered by someone during the night. Going up, I found that three doors and a window had been forced to accomplish this feat. 1st, the Chapel room was entered by the window (breaking the glass and unlocking it); 2nd, the "catch" was unscrewed from the door leading to the entrance hall; 3d, the st[i]le of the door at the foot of the stairs was cut away with hatchet and knife until the bolt would pass and let the twin door open; and 4th, the door at the head of the stairs was forced open by pressure against [it], carrying the jamb facings with it. It is yet a mystery why all this trouble should be taken for nothing, for it does not appear that any thing is removed except the Chapel Bible. 
Monday June 11, 1860. Fine, not warm, not cool, but temperate. 9 to 10 In Library. Had the carpenter G. I. Vanvranken up and doors mended. Several conjectures are made for the Saturday night's burglarious attempt upon the Library: one, that certain students were angry because they did not gain access to the Cabinet Saturday afternoon, the usual time of opening it; Dr. Chandler was sick. Another, that Reagles bantered them by reason [of] the keys being stolen, saying they would do them no good. Another that Dr. N. had repeatedly told them at Chapel in his little speeches that the order was not as good now as formerly, that were he as well as he once was he could find out and stop their tricks &c. --and to show him that order was better last winter when he was away than now when 
[he is] present, they are playing these pranks. 
Another vexatious matter is this of Beckwith whom the Faculty voted ought not to come back. He professes not to want to come into College proper but only into the laboratory for the purpose of learning enough of poisons and their effects to make him expert in that branch of his profession, that of a criminal lawyer. Dr. H. would like to help him in this design, I suppose. J[ackson] and G[illespie] are very determined that he shall not. Dr. N. has been appealed to, but does not know how to act; Mrs. N. has been beseiged and deprecates any more appeals to Dr. N. because his head will not bear the trouble; Beckwith goes from one to the other and is disowned by all. The upshot of this silly affair abt. which so much heat has been raised may be the getting rid of B[eckwith] but is more decisive of the ill feeling against Hickok harbored by a few of the Fac[ulty] than anything I have seen lately. 
It has been constantly complained that we have no longer any discipline in College --all true enough; also that Dr. N., having given the presidential authority and power belonging to him into Dr. H's hands, the latter is to blame for any lack of good order and discipline. Today I spoke to H[ickok] about this and he disclaims emphatically any transfer of authority to him by the President and says until such is done he will not assume to act for him with authority. I then went to Mrs. Nott and stated the case: she said her understanding was that Dr. H. should assume presidential duties and responsibilities by Dr. N's sanction, that such sanction should be given and had been given, as she thought. Then, said I, let Dr. N. state it again in black and white, clearly and explicitly. She said he should and indeed was this afternoon preparing such a paper. 
3 o'clock Julius. Myers tried Bryson's mower on our lawn. It operated pretty well. 
Tuesday June 12, 1860. Weather fine. 9 to 10 In Library. Dr. Hickok came in and detailed his grievances in regard to the Beckwith affair. His opinion was decidedly in favor of letting B. have a place in the laboratory so long as that was all he wanted in Coll. and proposed to room in town and study law there. He considered it unwise to anger B. and his friends, since no great injury could [come?] to Coll. from his being so slightly connected with Coll. as he proposed to be. He told Dr. N. such was his judgement, but if he thought different he would acquiese; that he would not take the responsibility of summarily sending him away, for he did not think it best. 
On the contrary, Jackson and G[illespie] press for the use of absolute authority and cutting him off at once. J. charges that H. is afraid to take the responsibility, has not courage to disoblige the young man's friends in Conn. and here; that Judge P[aige] and family having spoken in word for him, he is bent upon keeping him if possible. The upshot of this business shows the old ill feeling against H. awakened last year and now and then breaking out like an ill-healed ulcer; it teaches also the impossibility of administering discipline by votes of faculties when a portion are such hot heads as some of ours are. This first attempt to govern College aside from our usual method turns out such a failure that I hope it will not be attempted again until we learn moderation. 
Wednesday June 13, 1860. Very fine day. The Misses Proudfit (Sarah and Eliza) begin to build them a house on lots Nos. 6 and 7 in this block. Mrs. Nott called; she complains that Dr. H. throws off responsibility upon Dr. N. and avoids his duty. I suggested that Dr. H. did not understand that he had received plenary powers from the Dr. She said he had and ought to act as Pres. and not send difficult cases to Dr. N. Moreover, in this case of Beckwith, she thinks he (H.) ought to have sent the young man off and not opposed the wishes of the faculty. All this sounds well enough, but had the fac[ulty] endeavored to interfere in such a case as this with the Dr. N. 's management of the same, no little ire would have been excited among his friends. 
Saw Judge P[aige] at noon. He tells me he has received the Trust Deed from Ely & Judson thro' the hands of Mr. Crane, He also asked about the little excitement in College regarding Beckwith &c. I said the old sore was evidently breaking afresh. It was Hickok and Anti-Hickok. I [He?] spoke also about Pres[idential] Perq[uisites] -.how much they amounted to &c.; [I?] ans[were]d. above one thousand dollars; that the larger portion ought to come back to College from whence they were taken by no vote of the Trustees. 
He said Dr. H. ought to be paid more. I assented, &c. Then came up the Vale Cemetery; he said one of the trustees had spoken about the Vale 7c., their offer of 1500 dolls. 7c. I said that I had had better offers and could obtain much more money.á He said let College folks make up their minds about reserving a piece and then negociate for a price. 
Met Edw. Rosa, Vale Cemetery Trustee; he said they could not go above 2000 D's but that the property was worth much more. Then 
I. Then let citizens make up the difference -they will enjoy the benefit. &c. Dan. Powell wants to borrow 2000 D's. on his house; hav'nt got it now. á 
2 to 3 Botany. 3 Saw Dr. N. He spoke again about a letter to be sent to parents whose sons have joined political clubs in town. Keeps talking about this subject every day; it worries him. So I asked Dr. 
H. to go and talk with him about it. H. said he would and did. 4. Found Prof. N[ewman] and arranged to finish off a room west of his recitation No. 9. No. Colon. for his girls, and to let the bell ringer of N. Coll. have a sleeping room there. 
Down town with wife. 
Thursday June 14, 1860. Fine day, dry and warm. Saw Dr. N. who spoke, among other things, of the Beckwith affair saying that it had made no progress. I_.This attempt to get rid of an undesirable person has at least taught one thing --the impossibility of administering discipline to students by votes of the faculty, an unknown thing hitherto in Un. College. Dr. N. That is so: such things should be kept quiet and neither 
students nor fac. be allowed to hear of such cases. Mrs. N. kept mum. 
Were it not that Hickok favored Dr. N's own theory and practice in all such cases, there would be no difference in this matter, but so long as he does so, Dr. and Mrs. N. will not actively favor it but take the course which J[ackson] advocates of forcing the young man away by a vote of the faculty which virtually asperses his character and iritates him and friends. 
2 to 3 Botany -Analyses of Cerastium Vulgare, Stellaria media, Oxalis stricta, Rumex crispus --besides recitation. Saw Dr. H. and asked him to show me that letter which Mrs. N. says gives Dr. H. full powers to govern College is his own way. Read it and found nothing in it conferring any such powers, except when absent from town; it expressly limited them to the time he was away last winter. Now H. says, if Dr. N. means to give me plenary power, let him say so --let him put it writing; then I shall believe that it is intended to give me such powers. I shall not ask for them, neither shall I usurp presidential powers. 
Went into College Garden with wife. 
Friday June 15, 1860. Warm day. All things quiet on "Hill." 2 to 3 Botany, and analyzed Heliantheanum Canadense, Cyperus, Carex etc. 
The students have formed a áRepublican Club and meet in town, to which the authorities of College are opposed because [of] the tendency to dissipation. It is uncertain if such associations can be broken up. 
Saturday June 16, 1860. Fine warm day. 8 o'clock to Albany by R. R. Coming back at 12.20 saw the contrivance now in use to keep down the dust. The whole train was simply boarded down to the ground or to within a few inches of it. The space betw. the coaches is also closed with canvass so that the wheels and track cannot be seen and all dust raised is simply kept underneath and passes out at the rear of the last one. The arrangement seems pretty effectual in keeping down the dust. Bought locks at Coming and Co's. 
Called at Hoffman's, and at Pease's Lithographic establishment to enquire about the use of zinc in printing but found they knew little about it. 
Went all over the "Tweddle Building" in State St. corn[er of] Pearl. The new Hall in the upper part of the building is rather a pretty room, with gallery, stage, &c. for lectures, balls, concerts &c. They are now painting the ceiling and walls; calling it "frescoing." 
Sunday June 17, 1860. Beautiful day. At home with wife. 
Monday June 18, 1860. Fine day. 9 to 10 o'clock Library. 10 to 12 1/2 Writing dunning letters to Seniors who are absent. 2 to 3 o'clock Botany. Analyzed, named Sysimbrium officinale, Capsella bursapastoris, Viburnum acerifolium, Sanicula Marylandica, Diervilla trifida. 
Dr. N went to Albany this P. M. Called at 6 o'clock to see him, by his request. He still feels troubled about the political club formed by students who hold their meetings in town. This matter is much upon his mind and troubles him continually. He doubtless wishes Dr. Hickok to do something about it and, since he does not, tries indirectly to influence him thro' me and others. _ 
Magoun came tonight on his way to Syracuse on business; starts west at 12 o'clock midnight . 
Tuesday June 19. 1860. Fine showers today, particularly this afternoon. All day writing dunning letters to absent seniors. Magoun returned this evening from Syracuse and remains till tomorrow morning. 
Wednesday June 20, 1860. Fine showers again this afternoon. Magoun left at 8 o'clock. The Beckwith affair seems again to be moving: he [Hickok?] .called this morning for a copy of the Charter, probably to see if fac. had power of expulsion, and again at 12 o'clock to get copy of the resolution of fac. It is a pity that this affair has been botched so badly The fac., led by two or three hot-headed individuals, have foolishly passed what looks like a vote of censure, and if he is roused to claim his rights we may have to encounter his friends in a disagreeable quarrel. 
Dr. N. and Mrs. N. I found this P. M. reading and correcting the Seniors Comm't. pieces! She wished a statement of Jno. Nott's sal. from Coll. betw. 1847 and 1854, which I gave them. 
Dr. N. told me the other day that he studied med[icine] with "Metallic-tractors" Perkins in Conn. and practiced it until he was frightened out of it by the scarlet fever which about '95 committed awful ravages in some Conn. towns. At first he had good success with a few cases but saw so many die around him, that he became alarmed and started for N. Y. State to get clear of any farther concern with the healing art. 
Thursday June 21, 1860. Rainy moderately. The event of this day is the loss of North College bell --a small hundred-pound thing which some students threw from No. Colonnade and broke last night. Some of the small pieces we found, enough to know that the bell was spoiled. 1 1/2 P.M. went to West Troy and purchased another at Meneely's, foundry weight 148 lbs., yoke, frame etc., cost about $60. Met Dr. Jackson and Mrs. N. in his carriage this evening. He spoke very decidedly as is his manner of the want of discipline in Coll. and gave Dr Hickok the credit of it: spoke of Beckwith also and placed Dr. H. at the head of B[eckwith]'s friends and said decidedly that he was the means of keeping him here, &c. With the present feeling among cer.tain Profs. there can never be order, discipline, or government. J[ack.son] does not like H. and never can because he has injured him. 
Friday June 22, 1860. Beautiful day Dr. Nott sent for me. Several matters troubled him; among others he spoke of the stealing of the No. Coll. bell and wondered that young men should have been suffered to do such an act without any officer of College knowing and stopping them. The old fire flashed from his eye as he said if he could get into Chapel and address the young men he could stop all such pranks. Mrs. N. asked about a night watch and urged the Dr. to give orders to have one; he hesitated to do so, but finally assented to having some of our College men do it. 
This P. M. 3 to 4 1/2 with Prof. Jackson went to "Vale Cemetery" to select a spot for College Cemetery, looked at two --one on No. side of vale the other on So. side. 
Saturday June 23, 1860. Fine day, not too warm. Two days past it has been cool enough for fires in the evening. On "Hill" all day in office. 
Chandler away, keeper of Museum; took his place this P. M. from 3. to 6 in the Cabinet. Profs. go and come as they please, neglecting duties of Coll. for their own private concerns. We want a head; we want a feeling of interest and responsibility in all Coll. affairs. There is much too little of it. 
Sunday June 24. 1860. Fine day. At home with wife all day. 
Monday June 25. 1860. Dr. Nott's birthday, when he is 87. Of late years it has got to be understood by the students that this shall be a holiday and it is held today by announcement in Chapel by Dr. Hickok, by Dr. N's permission. Last [night?] Dr. H. announced to me that he anticipated a noise about Dr. N's house and had reason to suppose that the stolen bell would be rung on that occasion. So all the section officers were notified of the matter and were requested to be on the look out to detect the persons holding the bell if possible. Nothing came of it, no row occurred; it may be tonight or fourth of July. 
Employed Jno. Hamilton as a night watch about College at 6 p. pr. night as an experiment; he begins tonight. Of the propriety of beginning now in the middle of a term, I doubt: it should be done at the beginning of a session and stated openly to the student that he is employed to watch against fires, theives and whatever else is against good order. This trial is made at the suggestion of others. I have ordered also a sofa bedstead for Treas. office and intend to get a student to sleep there nights. Saw Rev. Jno. Pierpoint this evening at Dr. Hickoks. 
Tuesday June 26. 1860. Fine day. 9 to 10 In Library. 2 to 3 Botany. Analysed Rubus odoratus, Hypoxis erecta, Hypericum perforatum, Linaria toadflax , Rosa (pumila), Mitchella reperia &c&c. Today got a sofa bedstead into Treas. office preparatory to having a person to sleep there. This arrangement I think necessary in view of the unprotected state of that building in which is not only the Treas. off. but the books and minerals, shells, &c. 
Wednesday June 27, 1860. Fine day, not hot. All quiet on "College Hill. 
Thursday June 28, 1860. Pretty warm. Fa[ther] Harvey returned tonight. Dr. Hickok goes to Troy for the night. The labor, heat, &c. are making me long to close the session and see the Comm't past. 
Friday June 29, 1860. Fine day, warm and rainy with frequent showers. Botany--Analysed Anemone Pennsyl., Gratiola Virgin., Asclepias incarnata, Hieracium venosum, Ceanothus Americ., Geum Strict. 
Dr. N. sent for me talk 1. about the Lamy affair --"Fanny" having sent him an impudent letter in relation to the bond and mortgage which she has been obliged to pay. 2. about the church for Comm't, whether it shall be the 1st or 2nd Dutch and, if the latter, whether we shall call it "2nd Dutch" or "Congregational", because either of these terms will offend one or the other party into wh[ich] the congregation is divided. I proposed to call it the "Ch. at corn[er] of Liberty and Jay Sts. 3. about the want of discipline in College -.the stealing of the bell, the breaking into the Library, the throwing of stones and breaking glass &c&c. 
3 o'clock Called upon Dr. H. The conv[ersation] came upon his position here and relation to ----"----who wishes him to do the work and bear the brunt and anannoyances of Coll. Discipline, but he to receive all the honor and emoluments, and hold all the power and responsibility. This H. says he cannot and will not do. Hence the loose state of College affairs. ----"----will not and perhaps his friends will not let him, resign all or any of his authority, or salary; still H. has to bear the odium of any wrong doings and is charged with hindering the good management of Coll. 
Tonight I have placed Hazeltine, the So. Coll. bellringer, in Treasury office to sleep there and guard it from marauders; or the Chapel. On Tuesday night set Jno. Hamilton to watch about Colleges, against fire &c., 6 p. pr. night. 
Saturday June 30, 1860. Windy, cool, clear. This is the last day of our financial year and has been a busy one. I have been employed gathering up all the stray threads, closing accts. and balancing them, preparatory to a final statement. 
Father and Mo[ther] went to Hudson on Thursday and returned tonight. 
Sunday July 1, 1860. Fine day. At church in afternoon, communion season at Bapt. Ch. 
Monday July 2, 1860. Beautiful clear day. 9 to 10 o'clock In Library. 2 to 3 o'clock Botany, analyzed Lobelia inflata, Cicuta maculata, Leonurus cordiaca, &c&c. á 
Tuesday July 3, 1860. Warm. Rain at night with prospect of a storm till morning, which may Heaven grant! for the good of the earth and its crop, and of the boys who make night hideous with frolick and gun powder. Today we have put up our new bell upon North Colonnade and hope it will have better success than its predecessor, which some say has been sent to Harvard Coll. 
C. C. Nott Esqr. called to know something about the mortgages upon his father Joel B. N's farm in Guilderland; told all I knew &c. 
Dr. N. sends for me ten times a day --poor old man, he tries to work as he once did, but with poor success. Hope to have two men watching upon the Hill tonight --Jno. Hamilton and Constable A. Gillespie, our Sunday policeman. 
Wednesday July 4, 1860. Fine day, air clear, dust laid. As usual the students, a few of them, had a powow last night, burning some 
barrels, boards &c., and in the mellee our two watchers indiscreetly 
showed themselves and endeavored to prevent the bonfires. In so 
doing they were set upon by the young men and driven off by stones 
and other missiles. No one hurt. 
A still worse affair happened at No. College where three or more students endeavored to get at the new bell, either to carry it off or to ring it. They mounted the colonnade roof by a stolen ladder. Prof. Chandler followed them. Two fled and the other, close pressed, presented a pistol to him! Many pistols were fired during the night showing that this dangerous weapon is too common in College. This morning College is all abuzz with last nights operations. Some . students, taking advantage of the old President's lax rule, are unruly; some are vexed that a constable was called up to keep them in order, and this morning at morning prayers while Dr. Nott was praying a bunch of fire-crackers was fired. 
All day in office bal[ancing] accounts for my yearly statement. 
5. o'clock An informal meeting of the Fae. in Treas. office to talk over the state [of] College. All agreed that we.are in a state of anarchy and without an effective head, but who is to blame for it is the question. Some charge it upon Hickok, some upon Dr. N's old age and his hanging on to an office which he should have resigned certainly five years ago. Prof. J[ackson] sees no good in H[ickok]. Prof. G[illespie] sees some but is still not warmly áin his favor. Prof. C[handler] ditto; the others more or less his apologist. One thing we all agree is that the Trustees must either give H[ickok] more power or send him off and make another Pres[iden]t. 
H. says Prof. J. and the Pres. are screening themselves from blame, and apologising to the students for the Constables last night by saying that the plan was none of theirs &c., intimating or saying that Dr. H. was the originator of this unusual movement. The fact is T[ackson] himself proposed another watcher either on Monday or Tues. morning in the Library. I proposed Constable Gillespie with Jno. Hamilton and he approved of the selection. I mentioned the matter to Dr. and Mrs. N. who acquiesced also, and then obtained H's sanction to the measure. It is quite natural that one should screen himself from odium, but this should not be done at the expense of his colleagues. 
H. H. Martin Esqr. called this P.M. half an hour to talk Botany. Walked out and showed him several [of] our wild flowers. 
Wednesday July 4, 1860. A great turn out in town they say. In evening went down with the boys to see the torch-light procession of the Firemen. 
Thursday July 5, 1860. Rain commenced last night and continued all day and in to this night. Our rowdy boys in College, 12 to 15 in number, took up the thread of their celebration where it was left the night before and continued it till 1 o'clock this morning, burning barrels, boards &c., firing guns and pistols and finally breaking into both bell rooms and ringing the bells till stopped by Dr. H[ickok]. To.day Dr. H. says he has the names of all the persons who have been engaged in all the scrapes this session and that Dr. N. proposes to act in the matter. 
Dr. Hough called this P. M. on his way to N. Y. from Lowville where he now lives. 
Friday July 6, 1860. Fine day, not hot. The talk this morning among the fac. is about Dr. N's speech to the students in Chapel last evening, which is characterised as unwise and unfortunate. Among other things he made a sort of apology for having watchers on the night of the third inst. by saying that he knew nothing of them, and that if he had he should have opposed the project. Now the facts are just the contrary. He not only knew of the watch but approved of it and the persons employed, and directed me to engage them. Likewise, Dr. H. but a few hours before he went into Chapel cautioned him about making any apology for what was done to the students,, and he said he should not say anything about the matter. 
The only charitable construction which we can give to such opposite statements is that so old a man is very forgetful. He also reflected upon the faculty for remissness in duty which in [the] presence of students was impolitic. It is quite certain that College is not to be carried along under the present rule; we need efficient government but it cannot be had under so old a man. 
Saturday July 7, 1860. Dr. Notts motto in regard to a quarrel is expressed as follows: "I never fight if I can run; when cornered and I must fight, then I put the best face upon it and fight." 
Dr. L[ewis] dropped in and expressed his decided disap.probation of the speech of Dr. N. in Chapel in which he said he had no knowledge of the watchers placed abt. Coll. on the night of the third and if he had had such knowledge he should [have] forbidden the calling of them. Dr. L. says he cannot stand such a crawling out of responsibility, thereby throwing odium upon the other members of the Faculty. 
Dr. J[ackson] wants all the members of the fac. to hand in all the information they can get to Dr. N. and to urge him to push 
matters. He says Vph. wont and cant do anything, is not fit for Pres., 
but supposes he will be Pres. and Coll. go to the dogs. He urges to act, 
thinks he will do something &c. He complains of no discipline and at 
the same time at the fac. meeting the other day said he had slept 
thro' the rumpus on the night of the third and intended to do so on 
the night of the fourth ~-wasnt out at all except to watch his 
strawberries. 
Called on Judge P[aige], said Joel B. N[ott] had written to Blatchford to have Coll. buy the mortgage on his farm back again, else it would be sold this month. [I] told Judge P., Coll. had no money. He then asked about affairs in College. I said the Trustees must do something at Comm't. --either to put Dr. H. out or to give him some.farther power to act. 
Sunday July 8. 1860. At home all day with wife. 
Monday July 9, 1860. Fine cool day. Fred J. Hosford and wife spent 
the day with us and returned to Albany this evening. 
Tuesday July 10, 1860. Fine day. Rain at night. In Library 9 to 10 o'clock. In office all day. 
Wednesday July 11, 1860. Cool and windy, clear and bracing. Son John has the scarlet fever --lightly we hope. Saw Judge P. on the subject of Hunter Point matters. He goes down tomorrow to see to them, among other business. 
Mr. N[ewman] in conversation complains of the construction of the Nat. Hist. building, that it was not according to Dr. N's plan (who by the by never had any plan at all) and that it was spoiled &c&c. The old story, by which 1st, the Dr. tried to knock me on the head and destroy my good standing with certain of the Trustees, and 2nd, an attack was made upon Dr. H[ickok] who was also made the author of all the faults of the building. I answered but little because it would do no good. Nevertheless, whatever faults it has were assented to by Dr. N. who its seems meant no when he said yes. 
Thursday July 12, 1860. Cool. The excitement of today has been the discovery that our stolen bell and a skeleton taken from the Natural History building on the night of the 20th June, when the doors were forced, are in the room of the Sophomore Society called the "Dagger Society," which society it is said have their quarters in Bob Furman's Building. Acting on this information by advice of Dr. N., I obtained a search warrant for these articles and placed it in the hands of Constable Gillespie to find them. 
This evening had a two hours call from Dr. F. B. Hough, now of Lowville, N.Y. Among other things he spoke of a history of Saratoga Co. which he proposes to finish, it having been begun by a Mr. Booth of Ballston Spa. now almost gone with dissipation. I then proposed that he write a history of Union College. We discussed its size, method &c. Finally he left with the promise of addressing me a note on the subject to be read by the Trustees and faculty when, if their cooperation could be obtained, he would undertake it. 
Friday July 13, 1860. Saw Dr. N. at 7 o'clock and Constable Gillespie at 7 1/2. No bell or other Coll. property is in Furman's building. The "Dagger Soc." has had no room there since last fall. I then obtained such information as l could and heard that a new club of students were having a room fitted up at Van Horne's Hall. Went there and saw his rooms. Nothing there, here the matter rests. 
A Mr. Lush of Brooklyn, agent of Mr. Litchfield and the Long Is. 
R. R. Co., called this morning to talk about the right of way over Hunter Point property for his R. Road. Says they can do nothing with Mr. Crane or Ely, feels much disobliged by their conduct and came to offer a price to the College and to serve a paper preparatory to the appointment of Commissioners to appraise damages. 
Fae. Meeting this evening, Dr. N. not present: made out the order of Exam, which means nothing as no examiners were appointed. 
Night before last a young man by the name of Johnson from Washington, intending to enter College, got his foot mashed betw. two freight cars while carelessly crossing over and btwn two of them. Half his foot was removed, and the rest it is hoped will be saved -.somewhat doubtful, so Dr. Vedder says. Here is the penalty of the folly of crossing freight trains while standing across a street. 
Boy John doing well with scarlet fever. Dr. N. tells me tonight to engage the 1st Dutch Ch. for Comm't. 
Saturday July 14, 1860. Warm day. Son John getting better. The talk of the morning has been a speech of Dr. N. in Chapel, which is reported to have been a gloryfying of himself and a reflection upon the fac. He first spoke of his paternal government, introduced first by himself fifty years ago against the wishes of the Trustees &c&c. -.how well it had worked, saving young men, and attaching them to himself. He then deprecated the inquisitorial system of setting spies upon students; he never did that, but induced them to confide in him. He then reflected upon the fac. for the remissness of the discipline in Coll., spoke of these grounds which he had bought for College! and had given for the purposes of education --that they belonged to the students and therefore they should not ill-use their own. 
The peculiarities of a man, it seems, become more prominent the longer he lives, the older he gets; so it is with ----"----: what is not good is thrown into your, what is good goes into his, dish. An unpopular act he always contrived to slip out of if possible --to throw the responsibility upon some other shoulders; but he was always willing to appear prominent in what met the applause of others. 
8 o'clock A. M. Conversation with Mrs. N. She complained of discipline in College. I agreed with her that it was bad and said moreover that the discipline in this College, altho' no worse than in any other large College, was a humbug --that all College discip. was a humbug, because it did [not] accomplish what it professed and what the parents of students that' it promised; that the barrack system was an abomination. At the same time I said that good professors could not be found who would at the same time be good police officers --that I never knew but one man who was a lover of police duties and that was Dr. N. 
Then Jackson came along and we talked of the state of College; we agreed also that discip. was run down and that Trustees must do something for us --either turn Hickok off, or lay the responsibility upon his shoulders and make him carry the burthen or break down. 
To close up the morning tattle, Lewis came into office, and spoke decidely against the shirking of responsibility by----"----and his throwing all blame if there was any upon the fac. He considered it a personal insult to himself. 
All are pushing for the finding of the stolen bell and skeleton by the "Dagger Club" -of the Sophomore Class. At 12 1/2 P.M. called on Constable Gillespie to see what he had discovered and found that he only heard that there was a clubroom in the Eagle Hotel. This evening saw him him again and learned that in the cellar of Van Home Hall there is probably a clubroom and the one which we want: had him persevere and if possible discover the missing property. 
Sunday July 15, 1860. Hot day. At home all day. 
Monday July 16, 1860. Hotter still, fine shower at 7 o'clock P. M. which very much cooled the air. Tonight at 6 o'clock bro-in-law Magoun came from Hudson. At 12 o'clock at night the remains of my sister will come and immediately be conveyed to Vale Cemetery to 
be interred beside those of our dear boy Henry. Jno. is better --the 
Doctor ceases to come. 
Dr. N. sent for me tonight and desired to have a man to watch the College Buildings against fire. He fears some evil-minded thoughtless student will fire our outbuildings. This morning the Dr. did what in the nearly 30 yrs. I have known U. C. has never been done --publicly expel[led] a student from the Institution. The fac. were warned last night to appear in fac. meeting at Treas. office at 7 1/ 4 o'clock this morning. When we came there he had a resolution which stated that "whereas D. W. MacCorkle did draw and point a pistol at an officer of College and threaton to shoot him, and whereas said Mccorkle has been requested privately to withdraw from College and has refused to do so, now therefore resolved that said Mccorkle be recommended to the Board of Trustees for Expulsion from College." This Resolution was carried unanimously, and was read to the students at morning prayers by the President. What the effect may be upon College I know not, altho' it is hoped that others will be forewarned and hindered from falling into evil courses. 
This is the anniversary of our dear boys death. I have thought much about him, and the exceeding desire to see him which sometimes seizes me is very painful. And now on this return of the sad bereavement we are abt. to lay beside him his dear Aunt who two yrs. ago was the picture of health. 
Tuesday July 17, 1860. Cool, clear, and pleasant . All things happened well for us last night in our sad work. The coffin arrived at 12 o'clock accompanied by Mr. Van Wagoner, the Hudson sexton. The hearse stood ready to receive it and a carriage for Magoun, myself and sexton. The night was clear and cool, and within one hour our mournful task was completed and at one o'clock we had returned. This I suppose is the first funeral at midnight which the "Vale" ever witnessed. Under the deep shadows of the dark pines now sleep our dead to await the resurrection~ 
Prof. J[ackson] says that {Hickok?] is hoodwinked by the young scamps whom he calls before [him], and while he imagines he is getting wonderful knowledge of the pranks about College he is really bamboozled by them. Altho' heretofore he has thought that {Hickok] would do something efficient in this matter, he now thinks differently. Every day shows that [Hickok] drives with an uncertain hand and is no longer to be trusted with the government of College. The printing of my (Treasurer's) report will be completed today. á 
Magoun left at 8 o'clock for home. expense of the rest of the fac. We shall see; if he does it will be a further indication of the imbecility of old age. 
Called this evening on Mrs. Peissner, Dr, Lewis dau[ghter], who for six mos. has been sick of a ,tumor which has finally become absorbed. Her leg is drawn up so that she cannot walk, but is daily getting better. Called upon Mrs. Nott also and found the Doctor out riding. Saw Dr. Jackson, who has been trying to find out something more about the "Dagger Soc." room in town. 
Saturday July 21, 1860. Some days ago a trifle showed the way---."----]'s mind runs upon the differences in College betw. him and Vph. I saw a catalogue which contained letters opposite the names of the Trustees in his handwriting: his friends have a "y" (yes) prefixed to their names; Vph's friends had an "n" (no) prefixed. In other word~ ----"----had evidently used this catalogue for "counting noses," as they say, to see how he might possibly come out on a division of the Trustees at the next meeting. 
One of the firm of P. Reid & Co., 264 Canal St. N. Y., called with Professor Phelps of N. J. to show me some school maps on cloth. They are truly fine for the purpose and altogether a new thing. 
Vph. thinks McCorkle's case will be postponed and not acted upon by the Board of trustees thro' the influence of ----"----. Prof. J[ackson] says such a thing would be disastrous to our authority if suffered. 
Long talk with Dr. Backus on 1. the suppression of my reports thro ----"----'s orders in the minutes of the Board 2. on the condition of Union College. On the first point he has evidently been in communication with ----"----for, altho the recording of such papers is both reasonable and in accordance with usage and law, he still thought they might be put upon file with propriety. On the second he did not indicate any method by which College can be relieved from its embarrasments. 
On Dr. N's call I went to his room at 7 to explain my Report. Not being ready for me, I agreed to call again at 8 1/2. In the meantime met with Wm. A. Jackson who spoke of the recent sprees in College &c. He says a Trustee told him not long since that U.C. wanted two things: 1 a Prof. of Belles Lettres and 2 a Prof. of Latin in place of N[ewman], who does not stand high with Trustee or students. 
8 1/2 called on Dr. N. and staid till 10 o'clock. After a few explanations, which evidently were only asked to introduce something else, he commenced to deprecate the folly.of putting upon the minutes of the Board of Trustees the Treasurers reports which were in print: these ought to be bound up and laid away for reference &c&c.; in other words, "I dont want your papers recorded and I dont mean they shall be if I can help it." The poor old man was too excited and nervous to talk tonight and I refrained as much as possible. Another point made him quite indignant --the paying of money from the Nott Trust Fund for attorneys expenses, in the suit of Jas. Brown against U. C. and R. W. Lowber. This was aimed at Judge 
P. who is no great favorite of his. 
Not many months since, Mrs. [N] asked why or by what right, I employed Judge P. to conduct this suit. The Dr. said he had some other matters to discuss with me, and commenced upon that old story about John Nott's salary. I came off sad and vexed: sad to see how much poor human nature there is in him and vexed to see how entirely selfish he acts, how little regard he has for my feelings or interest in this matter of recording my reports. 
Sunday July 22, 1860. Fine day. At home all day. I am told that Mr. Milburn preached this morning in Pres. Ch. and addressed the [Senate] Theological Society this evening. Rev. Mr. Darling of Phila. also preached in Pres. Ch. 
Monday July 23, 1860. Fine cool day. Rev. Jas. Nichols and wife, of Rochester, came tonight. He was my classmate. 
At 11 1/2 with Prof. J[ackson] went to Judge Johnson's in town to obtain a search warrant for Van Horne Hall where we suspect the College Bell etc. has been stored by the Coll. club who stole it. Here we failed a second time for altho' we found their "den" or "cave," as it is called by them in the wet dark cellar; the property was not to be found. 
Called on Judge P[aige] in relation [to] Coll. matters: Trustees Meeting tomorrow, Mr. R. W. Lowbers suit, and his presence here now &c&c. Encountered R.W.L. this evening: he talks confidently of his beating College in the suit and recovering back his mortgages from College, &c&c. 
Tuesday July 24, 1860. Un. College Trustees met at 10 --no quorum, yet they proceeded to informal business, and about 12 o'clock proceeded to hear an argument from Mr. R. W. Lowber in relation to his claim upon Dr. N. as an offset to the bond and mortgage of Un. Coll. upon his property. To me Lowber was quite free this morning. He says Dr. N. has spent $1,050,000 in the Bristol Copper Mine, net -.not gross --and says moreover that instead of making anything by the "Cove property" he (L.) actually lost $70,000!!! It is generally thought that you have made a fortune out of that transaction; you should have made $150,000. According to your story you are not so shrewd as I thought you was. If you have not made the money who has? 
L. Dr. N. had all the money. I kept paying and paying to him thinking he was rich and safe until I actually paid him all the profits. 
I. But how was it with that sale to the city? You got a good price for it and should be able now to pay the mortgage to the College. 
L. I never made so much by that as would appear to the public. I paid at first $27,000 (in bribes), then $5,000: then $6000: lastly $12,000 to get the thing consummated 
I. Horrible! what a state of things when a whole corporation can thus be bought up! How much interest on your mortgages to College did you pay Dr. N. for College? L. Over $13,000. 
I. But I only received $7,000; what became of the rest? 
L. Dr. N. says he has paid officers salaries with it! and now hold their d[ra]fts on the Treasurer for $5,000 or $6,000, which is an offset to the bal[ance] not paid over to the Treasurer. 
I. But you are no better off for it; you get no credit for it on our books and never will, for he holds those drafts for payment in cash and will have it, too. He never tells me these are an offset to your interest --but on the contrary says he is to have the money for them. 
Lowber's lawyer, J.M. Barbour, was with him and in the after.noon they made a proposition in writing to the Trustees. In the P. M. Trustees had a quorum and transacted considerable business. 
In evening till ten o'clock was with James Brown Esq., auditing the Treasrs. accounts --finished comparing vouchers. 
11 o'clock Today the Seniors had a closing class oration and poem in the Coll. Chapel. Nichols and McElroy were the speakers. Call from Judge Warner with his prize Goblet. 
Called on Bp. Potter at Dr. Nott's; he looks thin, but better perhaps on the whole. 
Wednesday July 25, 1860. Early Mr. Brown called and finished his audit of the accounts and gave the usual certificate. He then wished to see the copy, which I sent, of instructions about the Lowber mortgage on Mar. 9 1857. Read them to him; he still said he never had them. 
I. They were sealed up by myself and sent to you thro' Dr. Nott. And moreover I know that Dr. N. had the paper on the eleventh for he came up home with it. 
B. I never saw it, never had it, have'nt it now in my possession. What is the inference !! 
At two oclock: Alumni Meeting in chapel: loud talking, eating, spouting &c. Didnt have time to attend. Many talks with Nichols about College matters. 
Thursday July 26, 1860. Fine day, rainy in the afternoon at 2 o'clock and till 6 o'clock, just as it did last year. All day in Treas. office, making up accts. with students and getting diplomas ready for them; delivery in the P. M. 
Friday July 27, 1860. Fine cool day. The doings of the Board of Trustees are beginning to come out and a fine muss they [are] making. 
1. A committee is appointed to compromise with Lowber, and a profitable compromise it will be for him. He has been working upon the fears of a woman and an old man who is but a child and thro' them he expects to act upon the Trustees so as to hush up the law suit almost on his own terms and so it will be done. The great Nott Trust Fund is fast frittering away into thin air and bids fair to become one of those magnificent humbugs which so often burst among commercial men. Something will be left, but how small a part of that $610,000.00! 2d. Prof. Chandler, a young man of three yrs. standing in Coll., not a learned man, only a graduate from a Chem. Labor[atory], has had his salary raised to $1500. Prof. Peissner, a grad. from a Europ. Univ., ten years a teacher here, has no corresponding rise of sal[ary] but is bade to be content on $1,250. So outrageous inequality meets the disapprobration of all the faculty, and it is the general feeling that this transaction is but a kick at Lewis, his father-in-law, whom neither ----"----nor Dr. B[ackus] like at all. The reason is so apparent that every one sees it. 
3. My own greivance --which is more fully stated in Letter Book of a late date to Dr. Backus. Dr. N. does not want my Treas. and Libr. reports put upon the records; too much light in them, therefore he has influenced the clerk of the Bd. [of] Trustees to grib[b]le some and omit altogether the rest --contrary to usage and law. I have asked that this be put upon the minutes but thro' Dr. Nott's influence all my Treas. Reports for 4 yrs. have been refered to a comm. of wh[ich] he is Chairman, who has neglected (conveniently) to report upon them; and they are consequently no more a part of the transactions of the Board than last years almanac. They have been buried in comm[ittee] --a common parliamentary trick. The Bd. have only ordered them to be stitched together and laid by for binding! A pretty destination of important docs. Saw Dr. B[ackus] and Judge P[aige] tonight on this subject and freed my mind to them freely on the subject. The latter said the Finance Comm. had not done its duty in not reporting on my papers and that they ought to do so. 
Saturday July 28, 1860. Fine cool day. The talk about Peissner's 
rejected application for increase of salary is still kept up. Dr. L[ewis] 
feels it to be personal rebuke to him and in a conversation with 
Judge Paige learned that there was a warm discussion in relation to 
the matter in the Finance Comm .. Another matter also confirms Dr. L. 
in his opinion. He recommended a grad. of N. Y. Univ. of 13 yrs. 
standing --a clergyman and teacher ~ for the Deg. of A. M. in course; 
this was rejected while the others, not graduates, were passed. L. 
thinks this rejection was on account of his connection with the 
candidate. Peissner read me his application to the Trustees for a 
review of their decision --a calm respectful recital of facts. This 
whole business looks bad from the relation of the individuals who 
are concerned in it to Dr. L[ewis] , a relation of antagonism. 
Judge P[aige] says the Committee offered to abate $10,000 of 
the bond and mortgage to Mr. Lowber. This offer is rejected and the 
suit goes on. L[owber] intends to act by brag and intimidation. He has 
tried it upon Dr. and Mrs. N. and upon members of the Trustees. 
Many of them were frightened until the legal members of the B[oard] 
assured Dr. N. that Judge P[aige]'s answer made no dishonorable 
charges against him. P[aige] says Walworth approved the answer, so 
did Harris, Campbell, &c. --but Lowber means to bring out such 
testimony as will implicate Dr. N. in fraud if possible, and then apply 
for a settlement when the old man and friends are frightened. 
Sunday July 29, 1860. Signs of rain again. At Bapt. Ch. and heard á Mr. Day in the morning . Cold weather --fire all day. 
Monday July 30, 1860. Gillespie, before leaving, left a draft of a petition for the Faculty to subscribe and send to the Resident Trustees, asking for an increase of salary for Peissner equal to Chandler's. All the Faculty will sign this. From words dropped by Dr. 
N. I think his prevailing motive for making C[handler] a full Prof. on the Nott Trust Fund whilst College pays 2/3 of the salary is a vanity in the old Gent. to magnify this Fund and make [it] sound large. 
Jno. Nott, I presume, from present indications will be thrown upon the College for a support. He left College 6 yrs or 7 yrs. ago and has been settled over a Church in N. Car[olina]. On being taken sick he resigned his charge and is now journeying northward. His friends, 
instead of contributing to his support, now throw him upon the 
College. 
Took a violent cold on Saturday night. Tonight sick. 
Judge Paige called to talk about the Hunter Point business and make arrangements for taking the business out [of] the present management; asked if I saw what the Board did. I answered in part; he desired me to introduce the matter of my reports but I said nothing. 
Tuesday July 31, 1860. Cool. Paying off salaries. Professors have all signed Peissners petition. Lewis sent a note to know why his man Roe was rejected by the Committee on degrees, but Backus refused to answer it. The fact is this Comm. has gone beyond their powers. BY.our laws a graduate from any College is as much entitled to A. M. in course as our own graduates. But they probably did not know this. 
Prof. Jackson goes to Fire Island this evening to spend a few weeks for recreation. 
Wednesday August 1, 1860. Cool. 11 o'clock. Called on Judge P[aige] on business. 1st. submitted deeds to city for "New Street" by G.W. Veeders house and "East Liberty St." And 2nd, to G.W. Veeder of the Triangle on west side of his lot, which he approved of. Then spoke of Peissner's case, the Faculty's petition to Trustees having been placed in his hands. He thinks the best method of disposing the matter is to say to Prof. Chandler that he cannot have the five hundred additional until the Nott Trust Fund is able to pay it, by which [time?] Prof. P[eissner] can have a like amount. Spoke also of Jno. Nott's pension, and [was?] advised if it must be paid, to put him upon the N[ott] T[rust] Fund. 
Deposite in both batiks. Called upon Wm. Vanvranken to see if he wants $3,000, sometime since asked for. No --has got the loan. Home. 
P. M. More copying of papers for Dr. N. in the Peissner matter, evidently for the purpose of showing th[at] he gave Mr. P. all his salary up to 1856 when the Trustees appointed him Prof. Why? --to get the credit of doing a charitable generous action, as tho' P. had not earned the pit[t]ance which [he] obtained:that it may appear as a kind of gratuity for which P. is to be grateful and very thankful! Childish! boyish! nothing magnanimous about [it]. To humiliate P. in this manner is not generous nor manly. 
Five women to see the Wheatley Collection; took an hours good time and all for nothing. Mother Harvey has returned from Clifton Springs. Sarah is better and doing finely. 
á P. S. A "committee of five" was appointed last year (1859) by the Board of Trustees as a sort of "Omnibus Comm." to do all sorts of things necessary about College and among other things to appoint a Tutor and to consider the application of Profs. Peissner and Lewis for additional salary: with power to appoint and grant these applications if they saw fit. So Judge Paige says. The minutes do not say so, but only that this Comm. could propose business and call the Board together if they thought proper for the ratifying of their acts: a useless proceeding indeed. Dr. N. was sick and did not appear at that meeting. He now questions the power of this Comm. to appoint a tutor (H.J. Gordon) and to grant additional salary to Lewis ($100 extra) and Peissner ($250), and in an angry manner calls me to task for paying out money without authority of the Board! On application to Judge P[aige], he says the Comm. was appointed with power and that the minutes are not correct, if that fact is not mentioned. 
So I said this P. M. to Dr. N. He says it was not so and that Mr Blatchford, Chairman, told him so! but I must not say anything about it as perhaps he (Dr. N.) is mistaken! There the matter rests. 
Thursday August 2, 1860. A very fine temperate day. At 8 1/2 o'clock this morning Mr. Charles Ely called by appointment on business regarding the Hunter Point property. Talked with him on this business at my ho[use], at the Treasury Office and at Judge Paige's office 5 hours or until 1 1/2 P.M. when he left for Albany and West Springfield where his family spend the summer. The topics of conversation were various but among them were the following: 1. The certificates which the College is to issue to the property holders for the Hunter and Green Point property: In regard to these he will be entitled to five ninths, three for himself and two for Mr. Crane, whose interest he represents: of these he desires for certain purposes to have one fourth part of his 5/9's to [be] prefered certificates to receive interest and to have the principal paid be[fore?] any dividend shall be assigned to the other 3/ 4 of his 5/9. By this arrangement he hopes to pay up his debts and get his hand free once more. Moreover when these prefered certificates are issued to him, he also desires to make a dividend of 60,000 doll's. of bonds and morgages now held by Ely & Judson and U.C., with $40,000 of which 
E. & J. will take up Crane & Ely's bond and mortgage now owned by 
U. C. and then he wants to purchase the whole amt. for himself, by assigning to U. C. 60,000$ of his preferred certificates. Judge P. rather objected to this exchange because the certificates do not come within the kinds of investments mentioned in the Nott Trust Deed. This point Mr. Ely labored hard to carry because it seems the best method 
to get him out of his difficulties. 
2. We talked of the Pidgeon proposal of docking 750 to 1000 feet of the East River front and filling in the same on receiving from the Land Co. one half of the land made by him. Ely thinks this is a good offer for the company. I rather thought it was giving Pidgeon too much but was rather suspicious of my own judgement because of my ignorance of the business. In regard to his own dealings with --.-"----he feels not entirely satisfied with his conduct towards him, and as an example of his doublefacedness he mentioned the following: ----"----borrowed Ely's note of $5,000 to raise money for himself, promising to take it up at maturity and return it to him cancelled. He did not pay it but obliged E. to take it up. In a letter to Elyá----"----complained that R. W. Lowber had the money and promised to make it good. A short time since, Ely spoke to L[owber] about this matter, when L. denied that he had the money or that he was bound to pay it or that ----"----vhad ever to him intimated such a thing in his letters at that time; and to confirm what he said, showed one of ----"----'s letters in which he says he does not know how he can possibly raise the money to meet Ely's note but must try either by hook or crook to do so. E[ly] says he would like to ask one or two questions on this subject but does not suppose that in his present state of mind he would know anything about these circumstances. 
Ely seems to be a good honest man but not of great force or shrewdness. Indeed I like him all the better for his seeming guilelessness. He thinks Mr. Crane an exellent man for filling in dirt or in excavating it, but no financier--without system, or order. He doubts if he is as well adapted for the present business as he formerly was, or if either he or Anable are at times as polite and forbearing as they might be. 
Judge P[aige] promises to get the papers ready for a transfer of the College property so soon as the necessary papers can be sent up. 
Dr. N. still pouring over the Peissner case, calling for more papers, more accts., more resolutions and what not --all for what earthly purpose no one knows, but apparently to make out a case of self-glorification, His interruptions of business become a positive grievance in the Treas. office. 
Friday August 3, 1860. Fine warm day. Call from Dr. B[ackus]. Spoke of the Faculty's petition in favor of Peissner, and pronounced it very unwise; said it would hurt P[eissner] instead of helping him, that itwas not respectful to the Trustees and too dictatorial. I answered that I did not feel the same apprehension that he did of its effect, and that the paper ought to be judged of charitably. It is unfortunate that some men seek for bad motives or bad manners where none are intended. 
11 
--------is still playing upon the old string, employing Gilbert the whole day in copying over and over the same thing, and finding the same facts, and answering the same questions till one is tired out with his childishness. He is getting ready a formidable answer in writing to Dr. Lewis['s] statement in regard to Peissners case which he thinks will quite demolish L. and shut all mouths. The main drift after all this "puttering," of his ideas, is: I did it all, I gave this salary, I made him Tutor, I made him Professor, I influenced the Trustees in his favor. It is all a self-gloryfying scheme. Every day shows more and more the decay of intellect and the impropriety of his holding on to power which he can no longer profitably weild. 
The movement for completing the President's House is now agitated again by ----"----, or rather by her. She thinks $3000 will do it, but it will take nearer $5,000, and College will be called upon to furnish the means. 
Made out a new deed for the City to land for East Liberty St. &c. and delivered it to City Attorney, D. C. Smith. 
Rev. Jno. Nott returned from the South last night and appeared in Treas. off[ice] this morning. He looks thin, pale and haggard --a mere shadow. Poor Jno. Nott! he is to be pitied! ----"----intends to throw him upon the College for support, making it a hospital for the decayed intellect and bodies of his family. 
. . 
Saturday August 4, 1860. Rain till noon, when cleared away. The much talked of event of the day is the balloon ascension of one La Mountain, which took place from the upper part of State St. at 5 1/2 this afternoon. In all respects it was successful. After rising to a great height he moved off east and within 20 m[inutes] was lost sight of. The country people came in crowds to witness the spectacle. In addition to the balloon, there was a turn out of the fire and military companies. 
All day in Treas. off. ----"----still playing upon the old string; his mind seems a complete muddle, his memory is quite gone, and he asks the same questions fifty times in a day. It is sad to see the ruins of so fine a mind and shows clearly the impropriety of his attempting longer to hold the reins of discipline in College. 
Sunday August 5, 1860. Fine warm day. In house all day. 
Monday August 6, 1860. Warm day. 8 to 1 o'clock to Albany to select draining tiles to drain lot, so. side Un[ion] Street betw. Terrace St. and the "New St." Bought them at McCammons, head of Clinton St. or Avenue, as they now call it. 
In office in P. M. upon books. ----"----'s mind still runs riot upon his answer to Dr. Lewis about Peissner's salary. It is perfectly apparent that he is not capable of any continued labor or thought and it is perfectly cruel that he should be allowed to pester himself with business, besides being ruinous to the interests of College. A vigorous hand and clear brain are needed. 
Tuesday August 7, 1860. The warmest day and night of the year. The first night when a coverlid was not comfortable. The whole forenoon taken up with a call from Rev. Hamilton W. Pierson D.D., President of Cumberland College, at Princeton, Ky. The poor man is suffering so much from piles that he is now on his way to New York to obtain relief by surgery. He gave an account of his experiences among the Kentuckians in former years, as Agent of the Bible Society, and of his success as teacher and manager of the young institution which he has taken in hand. 
In afternoon saw Dr. Backus. Spoke of building a house in the country on his little farm for his wife and family in summer. Asked my opinion of the cost --35 X 45 ft; answered $1,600 to $2,000. 
The State Sunday School Convention holds its sessions here today and two following days in 2nd Dutch Church. 
Wednesday August 8, 1860. Another warm day. In morning with Reagles called upon Mr. VanBrunt, corner of Terrace and State Sts., to talk about his house and lot for sale. A portion --the back --would be valuable for College, giving from upon Terrace St. for three lots. 
Thursday August 9, 1860. Warm. P. M. Most the afternoon levelling thro' "Nursery lot" to Union St. and along Un. St. westward for a tile drain. 
Friday August 10, 1860. Warm, fine shower from 5 to 6. 
9 Dr. Backus and Judge P[aige], a committee appointed by Trustees to consider and determine how the $200 damage to Coll. property done by students should be charged in term-bills, met at Dr. Notts study. They sent for me. I gave my bill of items. They wished to know if I knew the perpetrators of the mischeif; I answered that Dr. N. knew more about that part of the subject than I did. He answered that he knew a great deal about the culprits but that it was confidential and could not be divulged. Here the matter ended. No more will come of it. No one will pay anything. No one will suffer for his mischeif and the rogues will take courage to do other acts of insubordination. 
11. Met [Dr. N.]; he asked if I was going away. I answered thought of going to Hunter's Point to arrange business in relation to the transfer of the property to College. [----"----Who gave you authority to go to Hunters Point. 
I. Nobody. ----"----. The Finance Comm. alone have authority in that matter. 
I. I am aware of that and do not intend to assume their powers; but certain things must be done before the business is ready to be laid before them. [----"----Oh! I am in favor or you going; somebody ought to look after those old mud-scows. 
I. I dont want to go there if the Finance Comm. dont want me to do so. I had rather be whipped than to go there this hot weather. ----"----It is all right ,Pearson, for you to go there and look after matters, but the Finance Comm. ought to order it, they ought to have a meeting, and do things in a regular way. 
I. I am glad to hear you say so. I have tried for years to have them do business as you say, but never could get them to meet. 
12. Saw Judge P[aige] who is just ready to start for seashore. Mentioned the dilemma in which ----"----had placed me, obliging me to wait till called upon by the Fin. Com. before even the preliminary business could be done. Judge P. The papers which I want dont belong to U. C. and the Finance Comm. have nothing to do with them. I want the deeds etc. of Crane & Ely to L. K. Ely --the certificate he has issued &c. ----"--.-is too irritable for a patient man to do business with; it grows upon him, an old man's jealousy of loss of power is quite painfully apparent. 
S o'clock P. M. Dr. Hough called, talked about his project of writing a history of Un. Coll. Told him it could not be done now. It had been spoken against just at this present and until ----"----'s death, because such a history during his life-time must be a glorification of him or it would not please him. He took tea and left for Albany to see Munsell about printing a Hist. of Saratoga County. 
Saturday August 11, 1860. Rainy, cleared off in afternoon. Dr. and Mrs. N. to "Ben's" last night and back today. 
Sunday August 12, 1860. Signs of rain. To church in morning, heard 
Rev. Horace Day. 
Monday August 13, 1860. Tremendous rain, wind from south. Saw Graham, who has purchased Fa[ther] Harvey's house, about post.poning taking possession till Oct. 1. He promised to do so on condition he is paid the damage which he may have by so doing -.say $32 for losing the rent of his two rooms to students, and the interest on the money he is obliged to raise to make the first payment. Expect to go to N. Y. tomorrow night with wife and Willie. 
Tuesday August 14, 1860. Rain till near night when it cleared up cold. After much packing of bags, we finally get ready to leave for New York 'at 7:20 P. M. in the steamboat train. I no longer leave home with pleasure; business or the fear of what may happen to those left behind draw[s] me back, and fill[s] my mind with apprehension. 
Had a talk with Mrs. and Dr. N. cheifly about the law suit with Lowber. She says that after reading L's complaint and Paige's answer she comes to the conclusion that if either party proves what he has stated Dr. N.'s character will be ruined. He. Pooh! Pooh! Urania, that is all a lawyer's way of doing things; he spreads himself over all the ground he can so as to exclude his antagonist from the same. 
I. It is my opinion that the suit will in the end be compromised. Both parties are now fighting, probably for the best terms. He. So I think. 
Brooklyn, N. Y. Wednesday August 15, 1860. Cool and pleasant. After all the usual bustle and noise, we started from Schenectady --Wife, Willie, Rose (our maid) and self, and safely reached the steamboat "New World" at 8 o'clock. Twenty years have wrought wonders in the river craft. The little, noisy, unsteady boats of those times are superseded by magnificent "floating palaces," with almost the conveniences of a Public House; the jarring and shaking is almost nothing, and altho' the speed may be slackened, comfort and safety are increased. On boat met wife's cousin, F. J. Hosford, also several Schen. men --Mr. Peck, Brownell, Toll. Had the best "state room" in the vessel, but no bed clothes and was forced by cold to get up at 3 o'clock this morning. 
9 o'clock A. M. Landed at 8 o'clock and took breakfast with Hosford in Brooklyn. 3 o'clock P. M. by horse rail road to Green Point to Mr. Crane or Mr. Anable. Every time I visit G[reen] and H[unter] Point, the improvements strike me as progressing rapidly. Since last April the Long Is. R. R. Co. have erected a depot 500 ft. long besides an Engine House. Crane and Anable, being both away to Newtown on business, [I] went back to Brooklyn. 
Thursday August 16, 1860. Fine day. To Hunter Point again this morning and found C[rane] and A[nabel] at home. C. is an infinite talker; he likes to hear himself better than he does to eat, and what is of great inconvenience, he leaves business and talks politics, religion, temperance, and moral reform. His fort[e] is in digging down and filling up -but in his intercourse with men he gets their ill will by reason of a certain brusqueness of manner, although at heart an excellent and kind man. He is apt to rub the feathers the wrong way and in so doing offends his acquaintances. 
Friday August 17, 1860. Fine shiny day. With W[ife], Willie and Rose. 9 o'clock to A. T. Stewarts, New York, to see Wm. Libby, my cousin. Spoke five words and off uptown. Called upon Mary and Gert. Matin in 32 St. (116 E.). Off again and crossed the 34th St. Ferry to Hunter's Point to call upon Mrs. Anable, w[ife] of H. S. A[nabel] but did not find her at home. Took Brooklyn horse R. Road and reached home at 1 o'clock. The horse R. R. system of N. Y. and Brooklyn is as necessary a part of everyday life as the water and gas pipes. It penetrates to the outmost limits of these great cities and brings them into easy access with the centre and each other. 
This afternoon Cousin Laura Hosford, wife, Willie, Ella Hosford and self to the R. R. and went out to Greenwood Cemetery --the Pere la Chaise of N.Y. We rode for an hour thro' its principal roads and visited the principal points and monuments of note. Nature and art have done much for this celebrated spot. This city of the dead is made attractive and even charming. But what a lesson do we learn here! As in the living city, folly and extravagance make here their ostentatious show. Several tombs we were shown which cost more than $20,000. 
Saturday August 18, 1860. Called on Mr. Morris, Pres. of Long Is. R. 
R. He complains that Mr. C[rane], our agent [for] Hunter Point is not a pleasant man to deal with. Why it is that he is so unpopular, so generally disliked I cannot see, for a kinder, honester, man does not exist. My cheif obtection to him is his loquacity. He is a dreadful talker. Politics, religion, and temperance are alike his favorite subjects. P. M. With F. J. Hosford] and w[ife], Ella H., Willie, and W[ife] to Coney Island --a delightful ride to it, a dismal place when there. Arriving at 5, we remained weatherbound till 7 o'clock. So frightful a thunder-shower I have not witnessed this summer. 
Sunday August 19, 1860. At home all day with wife. 
Brooklyn and New York Monday August 20, 1860. To New York this morning with F. J. H[osford] and visited a lithographic establishment in William St. where 20 presses are at work constantly. A beautiful art for most work, superseding the more expensive steel and copper engraving. Called upon A. W. Sexton, 12 Maiden Lane, who married my cousin Ann Libby; not in. Wandered up to 264 Canal St. and found Mr. Cushing of the firm of Reed and Cushing, Bookbinders. Mr. [Cushing] called upon me some weeks since and showed some specimens of map printing upon cloth. Had a chat with his draughtsman, an intellegent German who constructs his maps. The process is exceedingly simple and cheap. A common sheet of zinc is taken, such as is used in the mechanic arts ; one side is cleaned, and the map is drawn upon it with a pen in lithographic ink. This is then placed in a common lithographic press and impressions [are] taken upon cotton cloth as upon paper. Next door to R. and C. 's called upon Brown, who constructs a water-heating apparatus. The process looks well and may be successful. 
To "Stuyvesant's Cove," foot of 17th Street, where Lowber is filling and selling lots. A dismal place, nasty, stinking and foul, and yet there are people who can be found to purchase little bits of ground here for $1,600 and $2,000 a piece. 
Tuesday August 22, 1860. Engaged berths for self and party on board the "Isaac Newton," going up the river tonight. Thence to 3d. Avenue. Horse R.R. to 34th st. and across to Hunter Point just in time to miss Mr. Ely who had left. Long talk with Mr. Crane, Anable, and one Pidgeon who desires to take a large contract for docking upon the East River front of Hunter Point property. Rode up two miles with Anable on the new Flushing Avenue, a beautiful ride thro' green fields and woods. This H[unter] and G[reen] Points Estate is a great property and if properly managed will bring a handsome endowment to College. Nevertheless I have no doubt that the original sum paid for it placed at 7% int. would in the end amount to more than the land will bring. Back to Brooklyn at 3 o'clock; dinner at 4 and off for N. Y. to take the boat. 6 o'clock Started up the river, leaving the dirt, noise, poverty and show of a great city behind for our quiet country home, well content with it. 
Union College Wednesday August 22, 1860. Reached home at 8.30 in the morning well pleased to find all things as when we left. 
Thursday August 23, 1860. Took to Judge P[aige] yesterday copies of deeds (3) from Crane and Ely to L. K. Ely, and today the original deed from Chas. Ely to L. K. Ely of 2/9 of H[unter] and G[reen] Pt. property, and L. K. Ely's Declaration of Trust. to Louisa K. Ely and others. All these papers are for the preparation of the necessary conveyances for the transfer of the H. and G. Pts. Property to Un. College. Judge P. say R. W. L[owber] evidently wants to intimidate Dr. N. and his friends and then to get good terms for a compromise. Shower tonight. Mr. Gilbert, my clerk, is off this morning for a ten days jaunt to Lewis Co., Niagara Falls etc. 
Friday August 24, 1860. Rain again; it is what the farmer calls "catching weather," the latter part of the summer makes up in wet for the former dry weather. Grass starts anew and is green as the spring crop. All day in Treas. office. 
Saturday August 25, 1860. Rain again in torrents last night, again this afternoon. Alex. Holland called this morning. Soon after, Robt. Potter of N. Y.! Soon after, R. W. Lowber!! The latter is again working apparently upon the fears of Mrs. and Dr. N. to further his suit against [U. C.]. Dr. N. sent for me; there I found Lowber in his office. 
L. followed to Treasury Office and informed Holland that Dr. N. wanted him to look for something. H. answered that he would go in and see Dr. N. to learn what he wanted. Shortly he returned and said Dr. N. wanted him to look at the minutes for 1845. The point to be examined was whether the Trustees [authorized] the Treasurer to deed away to Dr. N. the Stuyvesant Cove Property in payment of a balance which he (Dr. N.) claimed from U. C. 
I said to H[olland], "The resolution gave you no such power." He then went back to Dr. N's. and, returning, said he wanted to see the Cash Book for that year. He then examined the Bk. of Minutes again and concluded that possibly his authority might come from a sort of confirmation the following year, when he reported to the Trustees that he had deeded to Dr. N. certain property and his report was referred to the Finance Committee for them to report upon and place upon the Minutes if they thought proper. This done, H[olland] and L[owber] departed. This looks very much like using Dr. N. for the supply of testimony to Lowber against U. C. 
12. o'clock Saw Judge P[aige] on the subject of the Hunter Point business, the transfer to U. C.; incidentally mentioned the arrival of Lowber, Holland, and Potter simultaneously. 
1 o'clock Called upon Dr. Backus to speak of his call of a Finance Comm. meeting to settle the matter of allowing Prof. Stanton to take charge of the Union School in place of Mr. Bennett. 2 o'clock On way home met Lowber at Depot and had half hours talk with him about his suit; he talks of being quite sure of succeeding against the College, that College will loose thousands if it carries on this suit, that the best thing College can do is to compromise on his terms and give him 5 pr. ct. net for managing the Hunter Pt. property! _ 
8. o'clock P.M. Called on Judge P[aige] again to get form of certificates for proprietors of Hunter Pt. to send same to Mr. Ely for his approval. Talk again about Lowber and his projects. The Judge concludes there is none to fight for the College but himself and I. 
Sunday August 26, 1860. At home with wife. 
Monday August 27, 1860. Rain again moderately in P.M. This evening with Judge P[aige] went to look at Van Brunt's place on "Albany Hill," head of State Street, which he wishes to sell to College. Some of our Trustees think it may be for the interest of Coll. to own it inasmuch as Coll. land lays on two sides of it and can better be cut up into lots with this property. 
Profs. Jackson and Lewis returned on Sat. even[ing] from their vac[ation] rambles: [the] former from Fire Island, the latter from Fort Miller. 
Tuesday August 28, 1860. Cool, clear, fine day. Long talk with Judge P[aige] on the evidence necessary in the Lowber case which comes on 17 Sept. next. Saw Dr. Backus, conversed on School question, &c. 
Wednesday August 29, 1860. Cool, fine day. All day in office. 
Thursday, August 30, 1860. Fine cool day. Sick with a cold, sore throat. 12 M. Called upon Judge Paige and received from him all the papers he has prepared for the transfer of the Hunter Property to U. Coll. 
Friday August 31, 1860. Fine day. All day in office. A. J. Thomson today prepares deed for J. B. Graham for Fa[ther] Harvey's house and lot. Dr. and Mrs. N. to Mr. Delavan's and back. 
Saturday September 1, 1860. Fine day. All the forenoon with Chas. Ely of the firm of Crane & Ely discussing Hunter Pt. matters --es.pecially the papers prepared by Judge Paige for the transfer of the property to U. C. He dined with me and left for West Springfield, Mass., his residence, at 1.45 P. M. 
P.M. Judge P. having unexpectedly returned, I called to see him and state Mr. Ely's suggestions in relation to alterations of the papers. 
Deed of Fa[ther] Harveys house was delivered to Jos. B. Graham and the money paid. 
Sunday September 2, 1860. Attended communion service at Bapt. Ch. this afternoon at 3 o'clock. 
Monday September 3, 1860. Beautiful weather. Saw this morning Edw. Tuckerman Potter, architect, now resident of Phila. He speaks encouragingly of his prospects for business there under the patronage of his fa[ther], the Bishop. 
Dr. N. orders the Treas. ofU. C. to assign Dennis Freemans bond and mortgage to Mrs. Nott. This bond and mortgage belongs to him by vote of the Trustees but remained the property [of[ College nominally till now by his desire. 
Tuesday September 4, 1860. Fine day. Mr. Gilbert, my clerk in Treas. office, returned today from a fortnight's excursion to Niagara Falls, and to the wilds of Lewis Co. 9 o'clock A. M. Went over to Vale Cemetery with Prof. Jackson, Dr. N. and Mrs. N. and Mr. Chas. Vedder to look at a spot on College ground for a College Cemetery. Nothing seems to be in the way of the project but the dil[a]itor[i]yness of Dr. N., who hates ever to finish any project. Altha' now near the grave, it is doubtful if he will choose his resting place while he lives. 
A few straggling students are coming in. 8 1/2 o'clock A.M. A flying call from Mr. Jona. Crane of Green Point. 
Wednesday September 5, 1860. Fine day. Our old farmer and man of all-eyes tells me to-day he has raised blood. His looks indicate debility; he is nearly a worn-out man. A more faithful servant Union College never had, he has toiled on for more than forty years at small wages with no perquisites and no pickings. project. Altha' now near the graye, it is doubtful if he will choose his resting place while he liv~s. A few straggling students are ~oming in. 8 1/2 o'clock 
A.M. A flying call from Mr. Jona. Crane\rf Green Point. -~ \ 
Wednesday September 5, 1860. Fine daY\ Our old farmer and man of all-e~s tells me today he has rai d blood. His looks indicate debility; he is nearly a worn-out ma . A more faithful servant l}fiion College never had; he has toi d on for more than fotty years at smalLwages with no perq isites and no 
á,1,.k
plC-~.15..:,, 
A long call this evening from Prof. Joy of Columbia Coll. J(oy] is the same nice little man, a good large talker about himself and his, and perfectly satisfied with his place: Col[ umbia] Coll. has more wealth than it knows what to do with; its students are all gentlemen, all rich, all Fifth and Madison Aven. people &c&c. J. may do for N. Y. but he is no worker; he has but little caliber and is riot worth half the assistant whom he left behind him --C. F. C[handler]. 
Fa[ther] Harvey came today from Canada and is busy moving his furniture out of his sold house. Some of it comes into our house --the rest goes to the Remer house on the "Hill." 
Thursday September 6, 1860. Fine day. Fine shower at noon. Students come in slowly; fewer entrances than last year at this time, I think. Alack for poor U. C. if our numbers fall off, for our income must fall in proportion. 
Dr. N. and Mrs. N. to Albany yesterday, back today. Gillespie came up from N. Y. this morning. 
Friday September 7, 1860. Warm day and night. All day in Treas. Office registering students, who come in slowly. From present appearances our new additions will be much less than last year's. Why, who can tell? Is it owing to our present want of life and vigor; to the disorganised state of our arrangements? Our numbers ought not to fall off but they undoubtedly will if we do not wake up and infuse life into the Institution. 
Edward P. Magoun, my nephew, came today. Fa[ther] and Mo[ther] Harvey, having sold out and removed their furni.ture have today come to our house. 
Saturday September 8, 1860. At the Fae. meeting last evening held in Treas. office there were present: Dr. Nottt, Pres.; Dr. Hickok, Vice Pres.; Dr. Jackson, Dr. Lewis, Dr. Gillespie, Prof. Foster, Prof. Newman, Prof. Pearson; Tutors Deremer, Gordon The first subject for consideration was presented by Dr. Nott: the case of Graves, one of the rioters of last session, who had been dismissed from College. His father wrote for farther information, asking that his son might be restored. It was thought best that he should not be, but that he might have a dismission to another College if he desired it. In regard to the other members of the "Dagger Soc." Dr. N. asked for time to gather more information about its members, promising to call the fac. together again ten days hence. This is probably the last we shall hear of this matter, which has been shamefully botched. 
The usual advise was given by the Pres. --that the beginning of the session is a good time to "gird up" &c&c., some talk about requiring more strictness in going to ch[urch], about students rooming at places where liquor is sold, about defacing recitation room seats, about having and using fire arms in College, &c&c. Motion was made and carried that students should report their lodging and boarding places to the registrar. 
Course of studies was read and amended. 
Dr. Lewis, who has officiated in the morning chapel for the past year, requested to be relieved from it this session wholly or in part. Volunteers were called for, none answered. The different Profs. were asked to take the place, all objected, and the Fae. adjourned without any one's being appointed to lead at the morning exercises. 
Our old Farmer Reagles is á1aid up with bleeding at the lungs. Probably he will never do any more work. 
,Sunday September 9, 1860. Fine day. Bro-in-law Magoun came up last night in the 12 o'clock train to stay with us over Sunday. At home with wife all day. 
Monday September 10, 1860. Met my classes in Conics today at 10 and 11 o'clock. Our new entrances to College are not up to those of the last two years by 12 or 15. Why? Whilst other Colleges are increasing whose natural advantages are not as great as ours, should not we at least keep up our numbers if nothing more? We want new blood--more life, some kind of discipline, some progress &c. 
Tuesday September 11 , 1860. This morning we learn by telegraph that Geo. W. Boyd of N. Y. , grad. of 1858, dropped dead in the street. 
Wednesday September 12, 1860. Rain all day, wind north. This evening Dr. N. sent to Treas. Office a letter of Mr. Lowber asking for a copy of the resolution passed by the Trustees refunding the interest paid upon his {L's) bond and mortgage of 40,000 D's. I called upon Dr. N. with the letter and stated that I had objections to giving Mr. L. any information which would aid him in his suit against U. C. Dr. N. You may live to learn that Mr. L's friendship is very important to U. C. I am not disposed to conceal any facts which the Trustees may have done; it will not be creditable for a public institution to do. 
I. Facts may be innocent and yet not proper to be made known to a person who wishes to make use of them to one's disadvantage. I am not disposed to put a club into a man's hand to knock my brains out. Mrs. N. This suit ought to be settled. T]1e Trustees all want it and the Finance Comm. are impowered to do so. 
I. The Fin. Com. have made an offer which Mr. L. has declined. Mrs. N. The different members of the Comm. do not agree as to the purport of that offer Mr. Delavan understood it one way and Mr. Blatchford another, whilst-you and Judge Paige want to fight Lowber. 
L.
On the contrary, I desire a compromise and I understand Judge P. also to desire it. Mrs. N. It is for Judge P. to go on with the suit and he doesn't want a compromise. Dr. N. Urania, you dont know any such thing; how do you know Judge P. wants to go on with the suit? 

L. 
Un. College did not begin the suit, but only acts in the defensive. Mr. Lowber began it. Mr. Brown continued, and U. C. only comes in with its defense to save itself from being non.suited. Dr. N. It will cost thousands of doll' s. to pay the lawyers and years of time and it is best to compromise the matter. Mrs. N. Why dont you try then to have it compromised; why dont you talk with Judge P. ? Dr. N. Oh! I am not fit for business, my head is in a whirl and I have not time besides. 1._ Judge P. wants to talk with Dr. N. and means to do so before the next session of the Referee on the 17th.  
Mrs. N. It is strange that Judge P. has not been here to talk with Dr. N. if [he] wants to do so. Dr. N. L[owber] much to his disadvantage made over those bonds and mortgages at my urgent request, subject to the law.suit. 
L. I understood always that the suit was discontinued. So L. stated in his letters and so Judge P. understood it. 
Fa[ther] Harvey off west to Cincinnati. Rain this evening. 
Thursday Sepetember 13, 1860. Fine, clear, cool day. At 8 1/2 o'clock in office. Mrs. N. called and said our conversation last evening caused Dr N. to lie awake most of the night, so nervous did he get thinking over the past transactions of College. She again charged Judge P. and myself with doing many things to the great discomfort of Dr. N., thwarting his great plans, and now, to close all, conspiring to upset his Trust Deed and to cover him with disgrace in the manner in which the suit with Mr. Lowber is conducted. Her ideas came so fast that even a disclaimer could not be put in by me. I finally asked her if she would like to have Judge P. call and talk the matter over with her and Dr. N., to which she assented. 
9 1/2 o'clock Peissner gave the substance of a speech which ----"----made in Chapel: among other things he spoke of the highly respectable character of the Board of Trustees and how 12 yrs. ago they abolished all the Professorships in Union College and reappointed those whom they thought faithful and that now again the Board had appointed a committee to look into matters appertaining to College and report upon the state of the same. All of which pointed at the faculty as being on trial for their conduct, a queer speech to make to a body of young men. 
12 o'clock Called upon Judge P. and laid before him Ch[arles] Ely's letter and papers for his inspection, Spoke of Dr. and Mrs. N's desire to talk with him in relation to Lowber suit &c. and 7 1/2 this evening was named for such interview. 
Friday September 14, 1860. Fine cool day. 12 M. Long interview with Judge Paige in relation to the Lowber suit at which he gave me certain points which he wished to substantiate by my testimony and by papers which I could produce from the Treasury Office. Afterwards at 5 1/2 P.M. he handed me a copy of his answer with written memo. and marks for my guidance. Tomorrow he desires me to go to Troy and Albany to look up certain papers and facts. See below 
Dr. N. handed me a box of papers (at my request) relating to lottery matters and to the Senate Investigation, which were sent up by Mr. J.C. Spencer's Executor, G. L. Wilson, sometime since. These papers are to be preserved among College Archives. 
Our old farmer Reagles is better and moving about again. 
Judge P. gave me some details of an interview which [he] had with Dr. N. and Mrs. N. last evening. Among other things he spoke of the Lowber suit. The Doctor seemed to agree perfectly with Judge P. in his view of the matter and promised that he would not try to give testimony unless he had the questions submitted and he had time to deliberate upon them. A great point gained because Lowber hopes to use him for his purposes by taking advantage of his forgetfulness of past facts. Mrs. N. ask[ed] Judge P. in a pointed, direct manner if he tho't all the statements in his answer were true; to which Judge P[aige] answered emphatically, Yes. 
Saturday September 15, 1860. Beautiful day. 8 o'clock Started for Troy, arrived at 9, and immediately called upon Levinus Vanderheyden, the accountant who made the investigation of the affairs of Union College in the years 1851 and 1852. My errand with him was to find out where the papers of Yates & McIntire are. It was supposed that he had seen them during his investigation. I found he had not. The particular papers wanted for our suit with Lowber are the Original Contracts betw. U. C. and Y[ates] & McIntyre and the settlements. These Vanderheyden tells me he copied from the Bills in the Chancellors office, now Court of Appeals. Vanderheyden professes to be a "Un. College Man," -a friend of the Institution, which he thinks Dr. N. has wronged by withholding what is its due. He says he knows that Ward and Jones of the Senate Comm. would never have made their favorable report had not Dr. N. first made over by deed the property at Hunter and Green Pts.; and that Seward and Weed were induced to promise Vanderbilt their help indirectly as candidate for Governor and thereby hold him back from making a counter.report. (I believe this last statement to be "bosh.") 
Vanderheyden may be a perfectly honest man, but I am not quite sure that he can be trusted in all respects where his prejudices are awakened. He charges that Dr. N., in his 
interview in his (V's) house in Troy during the investigation, offered to lend him a large sum of money without note, check, or any other evidence of indebtedness, and that he refused it. I know not what to think of this charge of bribery; it does not look probable; even if true that it was offered, I do not think it would have been made in this manner. 
11.30 To Farmer's Bank and got the July dividend; and by Rail (Greenbush) to Albany riding by the side of Judge Harris. He is Chairman of a committee to investigate the discipline &c. of U. C. Asked him if he was coming over soon; he said yes, he supposed so, but did not think they would do much; deplored our state, want of discipline, life and vigor &c. --nothing could be changed during Dr. N's life and when he died he very much dreaded the result of choosing a President in the present state of feeling in the Board. He hoped Dr. Hickok would accept of the Pres. of Hamilton Coll. for, however much he was fitted to fill his present position, there were prejudices against him that could not be allayed. We then spoke of the dormitory system in Colleges; he on the whole did not approve of it, and pointed to Rochester Univ. as a proof that it is [not?] necessary to good order. 
12 Called upon Bradford R. Wood to ask him a question of evidence for Judge Paige: whether he recollected that Dr. N. called upon him on or about the 12th March 1857 to get his signature to the letter of instructions to James Brown and to accept with him the special trust of Lowber bond and mortgage. He recollected the fact well, but refused because he could not carry out Dr. N's plans in loaning money upon the Van Alst farm. He could not get along with Dr. N's method of doing business --thought an honest act ought to be openly done and not secretly, slyly as a rogue acts. He says Spencer told him that the condition upon which Ward and Jones made their favorable report was that Dr. N. should deed over the property, and that he said Dr. N. was so vexed at being obliged to yeild that he wept out of sheer obstinacy. Vanderbilt, who was upon the Harbor Commission with him in 185 7, told him that he was ready to make an adverse report but that inasmuch as he deeded the property to College he let the matter pass; nothing being gained to Coll. by such report and much ill blood to him from Dr. N's friends. (Lowber told me at his last visit that this deed was a free gift.) Called upon Dr. Jas. McNaughten, son-in-law of A. McIntire to find out where the Y[ates] and McIntyre papers are and was referred to And. _E. 
Brown and Wm A. Young; the former out of the city; the latter says they are probably in the hands of Chas. Yates of New York. Dined at 1.30 at Stanwix Hall. 
á Called to see G. L. Wilson for Spencer papers relating to Lowber mortgages. At Buffalo. 3 Called at the office of Clerk of Court of Appeals to see the original bills and complaints filed there relating to the suit betw. U. C. and Y[ates] & McIntyre. Could not be found altho' they were used by Vanderheyden in 1852; supposed to have been taken by Yd. and not returned (doubtful). 5 -6 Home. Called upon Judge P. Not in. 
To tea. 8 o'clock Called again upon Judge P. and reported progress in hunting up evidence. Met C. B. Cochrane there. Talked over the evidence to be needed on Monday. 
Sunday September 16, 1860. Fine day. At home with wife all day. 
Monday September 1 7, 1860. Rain in morning, cloudy till 3 P.M., then clear. This being the day set down for taking evidence before Judge Willard in the case Brown vs. Lowber and Un. College, I went down to Judge Paiges office at 10 o'clock A. M. and found there Judge Willard, Referee; Judge Paige, attor. for U. C.; Judge Barbour, [attor. for] Lowber; Whiting, [attor. for] Brown; and Mr. Lowber. Inasmuch as Mr. Beach, another of Mr Lowber's lawyers was not present, it was agreed to wait till 1 o'clock for him to make his appearance. 
There sprang up a random conversation as to how the case should proceed. Judge P. insisted that it was not a proper case of interpleader and that the Plaintiff should first show his position --in other words that the evidence betw. Brown and 
U. C. should first be taken. This was opposed both by Whiting and Barbour who wished to go into the general merits of the case. Judge P. stated that he was not ready to go on with the case in that manner, but was ready to show that his case was good against Brown. 
2 o'clock P. M. All present, as in the morning, with Mr. Beach of Troy. A long discussion was held by all the lawyers on the method of proceeding: Paige holding as in the morning that Brown should commence and that afterwards it should be determined how the matter should be handled. Lowber deprecated delay as destructive to his interest and urged the cause forward; so did his lawyers. They refused to take testimony here except such as would require witness here and College books, and claimed that the venue of the case was in 
N.Y.and must be tried there. 
It becoming plain that nothing could be done now, the question arose as to when the adjourment should be made. Lowbers lawyers wanted to go on next week; Paige and the Judge Willard wanted more time and finally the case was set down for Oct. 16 in N. Y. My notes of the discussion will be found filed among the Nott Trust Fund papers. 
Tuesday September 18, 1860. Fine day. 9 1/2 o'clock A.M. Called upon Dr. and Mrs. Nott to talk about our contemplated College Cemetery in the "Vale." This becomes the more necessary because the "Vale Cem. Assoc." desire to purchase College interest there or so much of it as we do not need for burial purposes. The Doctor began to descant upon his desire of old to have a College Cem. but that he was thwarted in his plans by the mortgaging of the land, by the refusal of the Trustees to carry out the bargain which had been made with him in relation to the same. He did no.t know that the Trust Deed would allow of there being a Cem. in the Vale but he would see. I urged that the "Vale Cem. Assoc." desired an answer yes or no to their offer to purchase the land. If they do not get it, they will turn their attention to other plans. I said moreover that the Assoc. wished to carry out what he contemplated --the making a public promenade for the citizens of the land. He said he would go over to the Vale again tomorrow. 
Saw Judge P. and made some arrangements about preparing testimony, accounts &c. for our contemplated trial of the Lowber suit in October. 
Wednesday September 19, 1860. Some rain, wind south. 9 1/2 o'clock Saw Dr. Hickok in his study. Spoke of the Lowber suit and his method of proceedure to gain it, his attempt to break Dr. N's Trust Deed by charging that it was a pure gift, and at the same time that Dr. N. owed him a large sum. Dr. H. thinks that if this attempt is to be made it might as well be made and met now as at some future time. 
I. Altha' there is no doubt that the deed of Dr. N. was given for a valuable consideration, yet such series of admissions has been made thro' his instrumentality by Trustees and committees absolving him from indebtedness to Coll. that,, ,however legal our claims might be, the moral effect of such admissions is to disarm us of all power in case we press them in a court. The Pres. Fund for Exam. has been repeatedly called Dr. N.'s property [as?] have the "22 notes." 
H. If a breach is made in the Trust Deed, Lowber will not be the only one to enter. 
I. Certainly. There is but one easy way of disposing of Lowber. He says Dr. N. owed him a large sum on Dec. 1. 1853. If that be not true, then Dr. N. can possibly disprove it, and nobody else can. He ought, if he have the means, [to] put Coll. in possession of such facts as will enable us to combat him successfully. 
H. Will he? I think not. 
Thursday September 20, 1860. Rain this morning early and till 9 o'clock. 9 o'clock Saw Dr. H. again this morn'g. Spoke of the Lowber suit, and thinks we are to expect no help from---."----who perhaps has an interest in L's success. Today read a portion of L's complaint and came to the conclusion that if the $46,000 which he claims from U. C. is obtained, one half of it goes to Dr. N. If that be so, in the Dr's present low estate it may be true that he will not help U. C. to deprive him of so desirable a prize. 
Friday September 21, 1860. Fine cool day. Two Rec. 10 to 12 
M. in Conics, Juniors. 2 1/2 o'clock P. M. with Dr. and Mrs. Nott, again visited the Cemetery (Vale) to look at the lot of ground which we contemplated using for a College burial ground. This plot lies on the north side and a little below the entrance to the Cemetery, outside the fence. College owns 20 acres west or below the Cemetery grounds. After walking over this plot, walked over the grounds of the Cem. with Mrs. N. whilst Dr. and his man Moses rode. 
Saturday September 22, 1860. Cool, clear, and fine. 12 o'clock Dr. Nott called at door of Treas. Office and said that the "Vale Cemetery Assoc." were anxious to purchase the Vale and he had concluded to let them have it, reserving 5 acres for College. He said I might see Chas. S. Vedder, the Pres., and negociate with him for the sale. 
Called upon C. S. V[edder] at 4 P. M. and stated my business. He asked the price for the remaining 15 acres. I said I was not authorized by the Finance [Committee] to state our fixed price but that my private opinion was that the land was worth 200$ pr. acre, or 3000$. He said he did not think the Assoc. could be got up to such a sum, but that they might offer $2,500. I then appointed Monday 3 o'clock to see him again; in the mean-time I am to see the other mem[bers] of our Fin. Comm. and get their opinions. 
On my way home, met McChesney who owns the Mynderse house and hill south of Vale. He very much desires a part of the property and offered $1500 for the land south of the Avenue or $700 for so much of it as lies north and west of his own land. Afterward met with C. S. V[edder] again and told him of Mc C's offer. 
Rode out with wife and Willie. Finished my first batch of dunning letters to students. 
Sunday September 23, 1860. Very fine day. Last night some one entered the Chapel by a window and oiled the Freshmen benches. 'Tis thought by them to have been done by Sophomores. This constant running upon the Freshmen by the other classes makes the entering that class an annoyance and tends, I think, to keep down its numbers. At home with wife. 
Monday September 24, 1860. Wind south, strong. Saw Dr. Backus on the Vale Cemetery business. He is indisposed to hurry the sale of the Vale property to the Association now, thinks it is worth much more than they are likely to offer for it and ought to be offered for nothing less than $500 pr. acre. Altho' I do not think the land worth so much, yet I suppose they would do well to offer and pay $200 pr. ac. for it. 
This P.M. looking over the old Lottery papers for original contracts with Yates & Mcl[ntyre], found a few only. Opened Library this morning 8 1/2 to 9 1/2 o'clock. 
Tuesday September 25, 1860. Rain in morning. Clear towards night. 8 1/2 to 9 1/2 In Library. 10 to 12 Recitations in Conics (Juniors in two divisions). 
5 o'clock P. M. Called upon Judge Paige and spoke of Crane & Ely business, of the Vale Cemetery matter, and of the Lowber suit and evidence necessary to be given at our next session in New York. Called upon C. S. Vedder, Pres. of Vale Cemetery, and reported progress in regard to sale of College land to them. 
The whole City is agog tonight by reason of the "Wide Awake" turnout. This new feature in political tactics is quite taking with the younger portion of the Community. They have a kind of drill and a cheap uniform --cape and cap, with a torch --and turn out at night. These are the followers of Lincoln, Republican candidate for Pres. The followers of Douglas are called Little Giants and pursue the same methods of awakening enthusiasm. 
Wednesday September 26, 1860. Fine cool day, wind west. Standing at corn[er] Union St. and Park Place last night, I saw the Wide-Awake procession pass, numbering about 1500 persons. This is the first affair of the kind I have ever seen and really it was an imposing sight. Dr. and Mrs. N. go to N. York tomorrow morning. He goes for the purpose of marrying Miss Phebe Van Schoohoven, dau[ghter] ofW. H. Van S., late of Troy. Five yrs. since, he promised to marry her and now she calls for a fulfilment of his promise. 
Chas. S. Vedder Esq., Pres. of Vale Cem. Assoc., called again to know if anything can be done by way of a negociation for Coll. property in the Vale. He has [talked with?] Dr. Backus who seems not ready now to sell and moreover places a rather high value upon the land --$500 to $300 pr. ac. My own feeling is that U. C. should sell the property at once for $200 pr. ac. if they can get it, rather than hold on for more. I advised Mr. V. to see if Dr. N. will not go down and talk with the other Trustees about the matter and I find that Dr. N. agreed so to do. 
3 The other Pol[ical] Party --the Douglas men --have a great turn out this evening in Albany, and great numbers are going over. The torchlight processions are now the great feature of our political canvass. The Douglas men call their companies "Little Giants." U. C. sends over a company of 44 tonight. 
7 o'clock P. M. Dr. N. sent for me tonight to talk 1. Of the Vale Cemetery matter: his conclusion was the same as mine, that we had better to offer the Vale, reserving 5 ac., to them for $3,000. 2. of Mrs. N's mortgages, notes &c. 3. Of Mr Peissner's matters. The Dr. says the faculties petition [to] the Trustees was imprudent, unwise, and unnecessary. That the sal. of the professor of Mod. Languages being fixed and Mr. P's in particular by the Trustees at Comm't., we ought not to have sent in such a paper. That he had got what he now has thro' his urgent perseverance and promised not to ask any more. That the mem[bers] of the Board do not like to encourage a Catholic and Cath. influence here in Coll. That a plenty of teachers of Mod. Lang. can be got from Germany for a thousand dolls. pr. year, whilst only here and there can one find a good Chemist. -."But I like P.," says he, "and his wife, and he can only get an increase of sal. by my influence and I am inclined to help him; not too many of the B[oard] would vote to raise his sal. besides myself, &c&c. 
Thursday September 27, 1860. Cool and clear. Dr. and Mrs. N. 
went to N. Y. this morning with their black man, Moses Viney. 
12 Faculty Meeting in Treas. Office to consult about the 
result of the Freshmen Examinations held Mond., Tues., and Wed. evenings for Prize Scholars._ On comparison of merits the following were voted in as worthy of such honors: E. W. Paige, _W. H. Beal, A.C. A. Strong --all of Schen. 6. Met Dr. Wm. 
James of Albany, enquired about wife &c. 
Friday September 28, 1860. Cool day, clear and fine. We make fires. My nights are now spent looking up evidence in the case of Lowber vs. U. College. L. intends to prove among other things that Dr. N's Trust deed was a pure gift while at that time he owed L. $16,000. We therefore are to show that it was for a valuable consideration and to do so we must specify the items of indebtedness of Dr. N. to U. C. This opens the old Lottery transactions and Dr. N's gains thereby, as well as the unsettled accounts betw. him and U. C. 
Saturday September 29, 1860. Cool fine day. All day in Treas. office, examining papers relating to the Lottery matters. This Lot[tery] business was a most extraordinary transaction. When viewed in connection [with?] Dr. N.'s claims as manager or supervisor, it becomes still more complicated. There seems to be a web of falsehood and mystery thrown over the whole so that when an assertion is made one knows not what to believe or how much. 
Sunday September 30, 1860. Cold but clear. At home all day 
with wife 
Monday October 1, 1860. Severe frost last night and rain all day with wind from south. Mr. John Nott came to town today from Quaker Springs, Saratoga Co. where he has been since the middle of August. Poor John! I pity him --in his old age and infirmities he has nothing to help himself with but the not very 
reliable charities of his friends. He will probably be thrown 
upon U. C. for a pension, such is usually the lot of the family. 
Tuesday October 2, 1860. Cool. All day in office, looking over 
old files for facts in relation to lottery matters, to bring out in 
the Lowber suit. 
Wednesday October 3, 1860. Fine temperate weather. 3 P.M. Went to see Mr. Ramsay in relation to purchase of Van Brunt's house, corner of Terrace and State Sts., lying contiguous to College property. He thinks some of purchasing the same for his son-in-law, Van Yoast; says the property is worth but $1,200. Van Brunt asks 1600 D's. It is of some interest to Coll. that his slaughtering house should be closed, as the same has become a nuisance and serious detriment to Coll. property adjoining. 
Thursday October 4, 1860. Wind south, rain from 12 o'clock to -------Saw Judge [Paige], talked of our Lowber suit. He desires that I shall carefully read Lowber's complaint and make a series of questions to be asked him on examination -.to study this part of the case and if need be postpone that part which concerns the proof of Dr. N's indebtedness to U. C. when he received the deed of Stuyv. Cove property. 
Friday October 5, 1860. Fine day. All my leisure spent upon Lowber's Complaint, which I find in some parts quite unintelligible. There seems to have been omissions purposely made from the written contracts betw. E. N. and him of understandings betw. the parties, the reasons for which cannot now be known: for example, E. N. was to receive 412,000 D's from the proceeds of property inside of Tompkins St. $211,000 was paid in cash, and 135,000 D's in bonds and mortgages, in part upon lands outside said [Tompkins St.?], which lands were in litigation! 
Why did E. N. accept security of this kind when there was 
plenty of land inside of said st. which was undoubtedly a good, 
a valid, security for him? Was there an understanding betw. 
the parties that any deficiency should be made up to E. N. and 
that, if any loss occurred, it should fall upon U. C. to whom 
these doubtful securities were to be assigned? So crooked are 
the ways of some men that one must suspect them in all their á dealings 
Saturday October 6, 1860. Cool and windy. The jury called to decide upon the closing of the old Niskayuna Road from its intersection with East Liberty St. to Union Street were on the ground this afternoon and decided that it ought to be abandoned. Dr. and Mrs. Nott returned from N. Y. tonight. 
Sunday October 7, 1860. Last evening F. J. Hosford of N. Y., wife's cousin,came from the West on his way home to spend the Sabbath with us. Attended the Communion season at Bapt. Ch. this afternoon. 
Monday October 8, 1860. Rain last night and part of the day. 
F. J. Hosford left at 8 o'clock for home. 8 1/2 to 9 1/2 o'clock 
A.M. In Library. Saw Judge P. at 12 M. in regard to a certain deed from Crane and Ely to U. C. -got the same and sent it by mail to Green Point, to Crane and Anable. 
Tuesday October 9, 1860. Cool and windy. Dr. N. called at office this P.M. and commenced to talk of the Lowber lawsuit. He evidently sympathises with L. altho' his memory is so poor that he can judge but little of the just merits of the case. He thinks L's friendship to be valuable for us, and talks of Un. Coll. losing a 25,000 D's. subscription from both him and Jas. Brown. So far as L. is concerned I would not give 25 cts for his subscription, and it is doubtful to my mind whether Brown ever intended any such thing. 
Wednesday October 10, 1860. Fine day. Saw Dr. N. again today. He proposed to talk over the Lowber matter, but when I began I found the poorá old man's [mind] a mere c[h]aos, without memory or method or any power of recollection. Almost the whole subject of Lowbers transactions with him was a total blank. He could only say that he had lost his mind and could remember nothing about the business but that, if only the facts could be known, a compromise might be made, and that only Lowber and Stratton knew the facts and it was for their interest not to reveal them. He seemed to think that inasmuch as L. had had the full price for the lot he could not in justice ask any abatement from the mortgage unless he was made to pay back a part of the price of the lot to the city to whom he had sold it, which is not at all likely. 
Thursday October 11, 1860. Rain moderately. The excitement 
nowá turns upon elections in Penn., Ohio, and Ind[iana], which 
the Repu b [licans] claim for themselves. 
Friday October 12, 1860. Beautiful day. This evening Dr. N. sent for me, and broached the subject of advancing money to complete his new house. The business stands thus: In 185 3 when he made his trust deed, College executed a release to him of all its claims of whatever name and kind except his bond of 10,000 doll's and an unpaid balance which he had obligated himself to pay for the Philos. Hall, amounting to about 4000 Doll's. He had given his bond to pay this but during the Senate Investigation borrowed it and professed to lose it. I asked for another, which he refused, but when the release was executed Judge excepted this sum of 4000 D's. and he thus became holden for it. It was then charged to him on account. Afterwards he got a resolution passed by the Trustees allowing him to expend such part of this 4000 D's. as he wished upon his new house. Sometime afterwards he elected to allow about two thousand of this sum to stand as an offset to certain printing bills which he had paid during the Senate investigation and certain other payments which he had made to Profs. Jackson and Lewis. This arrangement being assented to by myself, he gave me a statement to the effect that, having made this offset, there would be about 2000 D's. to be expended on his new house and that when such a sum was expended upon the house I was to give him credit for it. When he had expended that sum upon the house I credited the same upon his account, thereby wiping out the whole sum of 4000 D's. which had been charged to him. 
He now evidently desires to break this arrangement and to ask the College to pay back to him the amt. paid for printing bills &c. [and?] have the same expended upon his house. I spoke of the arrangement previously made and expressed the opinion that the whole matter had been settled so far as he and the Coll. was concerned but that, if it were not, thought it a proper matter for the Finance Committee to look to. This he did not like and became excited as he often does now, going off into old troubles and matters in which I had taken no part. I promised to call and talk with him again tomorrow morning. 
He then got off on to Lowber's suit with College for the 40,000 D's. Sometimes he flarred up and said College was all wrong in this matter and would find out so at length; sometimes he said Judge P. in his answer had taken the proper course; sometimes he was all for a compromise; sometimes for the contrary. Now he reprimanded Coll. for its position in regard to Mr. Brown holding him responsible for the money; then he thought we ought to hold him responsible. So his mind fluctuated from one side to the other. 
One thing, however, he said which --if true --shows the importance for College to stand firm on the defensive: that if Lowber succeeds in establishing the fact that the Trust Property is holder for what Dr. N. owed him on the 1 Dec. 1853, then Stillman, Allen & Co. will step in and lay claim to another slice of it, Dr. N. being at the time largely their debtor. If they can do so, then others may follow and all of the property which College hopes to gain from the H[unter] and G[reen] Points property will be frittered away. Was there ever such a perfect "muss 11 as this poor old man left all his business transactions in! 
Saturday October 13, 1960. Beautiful day. Dr. N., who desired last night to have me call upon him this morning, sent word this morning that he was not well. This probably arose from the excited state into which he worked himself on the Lowber matter 
12 M. Saw Judge Paige and gave him an abstract of Lowber's answer with notes and queries. This has cost me many hours of hard study upon that document. He says that Dr. 
N. and his friends are trying hard to have a compromise with Lowber, who has made thro' Dr. N. an offer of settlement for 15000 Doll's. out of the 40,000 Dollar mortgage. This, however, is a secret. The Judge says that Dr. N. has attempted to influence Cochrane, a member of the Finance Comm. and by an appeal to his feelings made some impression. The Judge says that Dr. N. has called a meeting of the Finance Comm. for next Tues. when it is expected he will try to force thro' a compromise proposition. The truth seems to be that Dr. N. and his friends fear an investigation which will surely show some ugly facts in relation to his financial transactions. 
Sunday October 14, 1860. Cool day. At home all day with wife. 
Monday October 15, 1860. Awoke this morning to find the ground covered with snow, which however soon passed away. On the Hill north and west, it has remained thro' the day. 
Dr. N. sent for me to say that Mr. Lowber called upon him on Saturday and consented to postpone the trial of the suit a week or ten days in hopes that some compromise may be made in the meantime, and requested me to ask. Judge Paige to consent to the same. The Doctor says he has Lowbers consent in writing and that he (L.) is hard pressed with debts and is extremely anxious to hurry forward the suit or to get a compromise. In accordance with the Doctors request, I called upon Judge P. who agreed to a postponement and said he would write to Judge Willard the referree, and that he had already written to Barbour, Lowber's lawyer. Dr. N. says he is studying Lowber's answer and hopes to get ready to call a Finance Comm. meeting soon to consider the matter of a compromise. 
Tuesday October 16, 1860. Fine day. Many persons from Schen. went to Albany to see the Prince of Wales, who spends the night with Gov. Morgan. Fa[ther] Harvey returned from the West on Mond. morning at 4 o'clock --goes back again on Thursday. 
Called this evening upon Miss Cynthia Sheldon, visiting for a day at her sister's, Mrs. Doctor Nott. She now lives at Phila. with her neices, the Misses Anable's, who have a young ladies school there. 
Wednesday October 17, 1860. Tokens of rain in morning, com.menced in the evening. Cold; wind from N. E. Miss Cynthia Sheldon took tea with us --a kind, good body as ever lived. She feels a great interest in Doct. Nott and hopes to get him to go on to Phila. in Dec. and spend the winter with the Anables again, altho' this is a secret. 
Thursday October 18, 1860. Beautiful day. Fa[ther] Harvey left for the West at 8 o'clock A. M., leaving Mo[ther] Harvey with us for the winter. Miss Cynthia Sheldon left for home, Phila., at 1.45 P.M. 
Friday October 19, 1860. Beautiful day. This afternoon Mr. Chas. Ely [ called?] to arrange matters for the final transfer to College of the Hunter and Green Point property in trust. All the necessary deeds are now placed in Judge Paige's hands for delivery to College as soon as the land certificates are printed. Mr. Ely's cheif difficulty in getting the old Certificates from the persons now holding them consists in raising a few thousand dollars to pay the holders of them. We met at Judge Paiges office and after a long conversation it was agreed that the Certificates should be made up and the copy sent down for Mr. Ely to get printed. 
Saturday October 20, 1860. Beautiful day. 11 to 1 o'clock. Out riding with wife to Mr. P. Riley Tolls in Glenville. P. M. Writing dunning letters to students. Ball-playing is now the favorite out-door sport of students as well as of our other young men. Physical training, too much neglected among our youth, bids fair to be so no longer. 
Sunday October 21, 1860. Rainy day. To Bapt. Ch. this 
morning. Rev. Mr. Day preached; few out. 
Monday October 21, 1860. Foggy, drizzly, but clear towards night. Call from Mrs. Paige this evening, to know if I desired to purchase the office copy of the "Cabinet" newspaper. As the printing materials are to be sold (the property of the late S S. Riggs) she desired to purchase this last relict of the old "Schen. Cabinet" office. Riggs has always promised the file of the "Cabinet" for the College Library and Mrs. P. was so told. 
As she has been so kind a friend to Coll. I said I would not stand in the way of her getting possession of the papers. I also gave her a few numbers of the "Spectator" published here in 1802 -1810. 
Tuesday October 23, 1860. Delightful weather. Library open from 8 1/2 to 9 1/2 o'clock. Classes in Conics from 10 to 12 
A.M. 
The wedding of Gen Cady's dau[ghter] to a Mr. Morse of N. 

Y. 
tonight --all the city invited, and a splendid affair expected. 


Wednesday October 24, 1860. Beautiful day. The so-called Examinations for deficiencies have been held in No. 16. Mond., Tues., and Wed. evenings. 
Thursday October 25, 1860. Beautiful day. Another political turnout tonight --the Douglas or Fusion party. The fever runs high, and but little is talked of now save the coming election. 
Friday October 26, 1860. Beautiful day. Called upon Judge Paige to find when our Lowber suit is coming on. He says the 13th or 14th of Nov. In the meantime he says a Finance Committee meeting is to be called for the purpose of endeavoring to compromise with L[ owber]. 
Saturday October 27, 1860. Beautiful day. All day in office. Called upon Mrs. Jackson (Prof.) and his sister Mrs. Chesbro of Copake --with wife. Mrs. J. spoke of the failing health of Prof. Lewis, who is nervous and unhappy in the extreme. 
Sunday October 28, 1860. Cool and indications of rain. At home with wife. Read a portion of Mrs. Emily E. Judson's life, a work of moderate literary ability. 
Monday October 29, 1860. Overcast, wind south, warm and indicating rain. Dr. N. says the Finance Committee will meet tomorrow at 10 o'clock at Dr. Backus' study; the object is to consider a new offer of Lowber for a compromise and settlement of the law suit. 
Tuesday October 30, 1860. Cloudy and tokens of rain, which came in a drizzle at night. This morning the Finance Comm. met at Dr. Backus' study to consider the matter of Lowber's suit with College. What has been the result I have not heard. 
All day, so far as leisure would allow, at work upon a contract betw. N. Y. and Flushing R. Road Co. and Ely & Judson and Un. Coll. for an exchange of property at Hunter Point. 
Wednesday October 31, 1860. Cloudy but warm. I hear today in a conversation with Dr. Backus that the Finance Comm. agreed to Lowber's proposition for the settlement of the matter in dispute so far as the 40,000 Doll. bond and mortgage is concerned. He is to receive out of the moneys, $15,000., leaving the question of interest to be settled between Mr. Jas. Brown and College. All other matters betw. L. and U. C. remain unsettled and are subject to a farther suit or compromise, by which he is likely to make another strike-out of the College. 
This whole compromise is as much for the convenience of ----"----as for L's. He (Dr. N.) has been urging his friends in the Board ever since the suit commenced to compromise, and has been ready at all times to sacrifice College interest to L's and to his own. It is to be hoped that the time will come sometime when this continual filching of the College means will stop, tho 'tis to be feared that it will not so long as ----"--- lives. 
Thursday November 1, 1860. Very warm and Indian summerish. Payday for the Quarter, very busy drawing checks and paying salaries. 
Friday November 2, 1860. Beautiful day. Saw Judge Paige today in relation to the settlement with Lowber. He goes down to New York tomorrow P.M. He regards the action of Fin. Comm. in settling with L. on his terms as much to the disadvantage of Coll. and only brought about by, and as a concession to, ----"----'s importunity. College loses $15,000 of principal and near $10,000 of int[erest] by his imbecile intermeddling. It is high time that the poor old man lets alone affairs of College. By his continual intermeddling and childish freaks, College is going to the dogs as fast as it can. He grants "bolts" to the students every day and the regular routine of the College [is] constantly interfered with by his childish interference. 
Saturday November 3, 1860. Warm, cloudy and rain at night. Mr. Magoun came tonight. 
Saw Judge Paige, got the Certificates for C. Ely and sent them to him. Judge P. does not go to N. Y. today but will await for Lowber here till Wed. for the purpose of settling the matter of the $40,000 mortgage. 
Sunday November 4, 1860. Clear cool day. In afternoon to Bapt. Ch. at the monthly Communion season. 
Monday November 5, 1860. Wind south again. Clear and not cold. Mr. Magoun left this morning at 8 o'clock for Hudson. In Library 8 1/2 to 9 1/2. Dr. N. says Lowber will be here today to settle the matter of the compromise. 
Tuesday November 6, 1860. Rain till afternoon; cold and dreary. A bad day for election --many an invalid who otherwise would have voted will be hindered by the weather. Dr. Nott went down and voted the Republican ticket, altho' he calls himself a Democrat. The Doctor is one of those men who like to ride straddle of the fence, calling himself a Demo. but voting the Repub. ticket --a Demo. with Republican principles! 
Wednesday November 7, 1860. Cool, clear, fine day. All agog for election news , and all for Lincoln at the North and N.W. They say he is elected for certain. 
They say also that Mr. Vibbard, D*** Central R. R., candidate for Mem[ber of] Cong[ress] is probably elected from this district over Mix, and that he has spent $12,000 to buy it! A disgraceful fact if true! 
Thursday November 8, 1860. Fine day. Mr. Charles Ely, one of the proprietors of Hunter Point, came up today to see Judge Paige and myself about H[unter] Pt. business, but not finding Judge P. at home, we talked over matters. He dined with me and left at 1.45 P.M. for his home in W. Springfield, Mass. A dozen zealous "Wide Awake" students burned a few barrels last evening upon the "Campus" to show their appreciation of the great Repub. victory--nothing more. 
Friday November 9, 1860. Beautiful day. Secession! Secession! is now the cry from the South: At the North, the Union feeling is evidently strengthening, and it seems probable that even at the South on calmer reflection moderate counsels will prevail and matters go on as usual. 
Saturday November 10, 1860. Rain all day with slight intermission. Down down this P. M. Mr. Abel Smith gave me a long account of his suit with Joel W. Jones for libel. Smith and Jones were directors in the Mohawk. The directors quarreled and the Smith party were put out, and Jones published a severe personal attack upon many of the officers of [the] bank [of] whom Smith,, the former Pres., was one. Smith sued him for libel and was about to proceed to trial when, as P[aige?] says, Dr. Nott --himself for years a director --suddenly interfered and patched a compromise, Jones signing a retraction. S[mith] says Dr. N. interfered merely to save his own reputation and not to have the public see how he and his associates had mismanaged things before he Uones] became a director. 
Mr. Lowber being in town, I had a call to attend a meeting at Dr. Backus' study of the Finance Committee at 8 o'clock. There were present Dr. Nott, Dr. Backus, Judge Paige, C. 
B. Cochrane Esq., Mr. Whiting, attorney for Jas. Brown, and myself. The object of the meeting was the arrangement of matters for Mr. Lowber's getting the 15,000 D's. of the $40,000 now in the hands of James Brown whose representatives in N.Y. objected to paying over the money unless the whole matter of the suit was settled and Mr. Brown released from any farther liability. ,Judge P. and Mr. Whiting, as the counsel for College and Brown, had the principle parts in the discussion. Judge P. held that Mr. Brown had done wrong in not abiding by the Instructions which the Trustees had sent him and was liable for the whole amount of the money to College. The only thing, however, which seemed to cause any present difference is the interest due on the bond and mortgage which B[rown] did not collect, and amounting to $10,322 on the 1st day of June 1859 when the money was paid to Brown. 
Whiting asserted that Mr. B[rown], not having received those instructions above mentioned, acted according to his best discretion, supposing as he had a right to do that it was really and truly the property of Dr. N. Judge P. stated distinctly that Mr. B. did receive those instructions and that his attorney, Mr. 
C.N. Potter, said he would agree to acknowledge the receipt of the same. That Mr. B. had in 1858 and 1859, when sitting in the Board, acquiesced in all he (P[otter]) now said by not denying the statements which were then made respecting this transaction, in substantially the terms he now used. 
Whiting then said there was a subsequent paper of Instructions sent to Mr. Brown. Paige promptly denied this and so did all present, Dr. N. saying nothing. What Whiting meant by this "subsequent paper of Instructions" will shortly appear. 
Whiting then desired to know how much interest was claimed to be due from Brown. Paige said (appealing to me) something over two thousand dollars on June 1, '5 9, after taking out the drafts on Treas. of Nott T. Fund which Dr. N. holds and which it is understood are to be given up by Dr. N. (Dr. N. said nothing -these drafts, he told Lowber, he had paid out of money which he (L.) had paid him for U. C. and upon the bonds and mortgages held [by] U. C. --but to me Dr. N. always said the Nott Trust Fund must pay those dfts!!! 
Whiting said the Browns were very mad that J[ames] B[rown] had been made party to the suit and been charged as a wrong doer in the matter, that he (B.) only acted as agent in the matter and without reward, and that it was ungracious for the College to hold him to account. 
Judge P. said no one attributed any moral wrong to Mr. B.; he was only a wrong doer in the legal sense. He had been the cause of College's losing this $15,000 as well as $10,000 of interest. 
Whiting then said he would consult Mr. Brown's representatives in N. Y. (he being out of the country) and would follow their instructions; perhaps they would pay over the money to L[owber] and Coll. on further explanations. 
It was now 9 1/2 o'clock and Dr. Nott left with Mr. Whiting, and Mr. Lowber was called in to arrange about the papers necessary to be signed for the procur[r]ing the money, viz. the agreement betwn. the parties and the order on Mess. Brown Bros. Judge P. Cochrane, Lowber and self then passed over to Judge P's office where for half an hour or perhaps more than [an] hour the papers already drawn were read and their points discussed and finally accepted and handed over to me to sigri and seal, Lowber and Pyne, his partner, having already signed them. 
It was 1/2 past 11 o'clock when L[owber] and I reached the Treasury Office to affix the College seal to the papers. All the way and there L. was very communicative; in fact I consider him a perfect "blab"; he not only talks to the injury of others but to his own, telling things not reputable to be known. He told how much Dr. N. lost by Bradford, Blydenburg, and Bliss, the three "Busy Bees" as he called them. Bradford's loss for Dr. N was 700,000. He said the Cove property was worth only 45 to 50,000 Dollars in 1845, that up to 1850 Dr. N. had spent only 12,000$ upon it, that Jona. Crane wanted to buy it then for 150,000, he (Dr. N.) paying off the Debts upon [it] amounting to 112,000 but he (Lowber) wouldnt let him but offered him instead 300,000 D's. and 1/3 the profits, afterwards 1/2 the profits. (I asked L. how much these 1/2 profits were for Dr. N. He said up to 185 7 when Dr. N. sold out to him they had been $23,000.) 
I. Why did Dr. sell out to you in 1857? 
L. He wrote to me that Bristol had failed and that the debts would come back on him and embarrass the Cove property if a settlement was not effected. 
I. How much did you and Dr. N. owe Stillman Allen & Co.? 
L. 300,000 Doll's. but Jas. Brown has forgiven Dr. N. his part, viz. 130,000 D's. 
I. Havent S[tillman] A[llen] & Co. threatened to sue the College for the remaining debt? (Dr. N. had told me that was the case.) 
L. No --I never heard of such a thing. 
I. I think your course of frightening the Dr. and Mrs. N. has resulted most auspiciously for you. It has gained you 15,000
D's. which you otherwise never would have received 
L. Do you think I would have settled for the 15,000 only? Dr. 
N. has made me some compensation also. 
I. Not so much as you would have gained if the suit had terminated favorably to you? 
L. Yes, if the suit had continued 8 yrs. He has given up a bond and mortgage which I gave him on Bald Mt. for 20,000 D's. 
I. How much int[erest] did you pay to Dr. N. on your bonds and mortgages of $90,000? 
L. 13,000 and odd Dolls. Here it is (showing me a paper); you can copy it. (So I did.) 
I. But you have not my receipt for that amount. I never received from Dr. N. more than about 7,000 D's. leaving 6000 D's. still in his hands. Why did not Mr. James Brown collect interest on the bond and mortgage of 40,000 D's.? You say no interest was collected. 
L. That was the agreement betw. Dr. Nott and myself. 
I. But we instructed Brown to take interest and, not doing so, he is liable to us for it. 
L. Brown never received your instructions. 
I. Yes he did. I sealed them up and sent the sealed package to 
B. by Dr. N. 
L. I tell you again I know they were never delivered to B. 
I. Then you make out Dr. N. a rogue, breaking faith with the Coll. by abstracting an important paper, to the detriment of College. 
L. No, I dont. I say again I know that B. never saw that paper, but Dr. N. substituted another for it of the following import: ordering Brown on the receipt of the money from the city 1. to pay off the 25,000$ bond and mortgage on the Van Alst Farm 
2. to deposite the bal. of 15,000 to his credit with Duncan, Sherman & Co. 3. to take Crane & Ely's bond and mortgage for 40,000 for College in place of the one given up. And I was to take his personal guarantee for the payment back to me of this bond and morgage in case the suit with the City went against me. 
I. What became of that paper of Instructions sent by College to Brown if it was not delivered? 
L. Sometime after, that with other papers came into C. N. Potter's hands. I saw the paper there; he had it but where it is now I do not know. (C. N. P. pretended he did not know anything about that paper at one time, and sent to me for a copy; said Mr. B[rown] could not find it &c.) Oh! consistency! 
What a jewel! 
The above assertion of Lowber was told me twice at the interval of an hour; the last thing he told me at my gate, then 15 ms. past 12, was the above statement --the most extraordinary assertion that I have heard in the whole course of this Lowber suit; and what is more he asserted repeatedly,, when I doubted the fact, that he could prove all he said by Dr. Notts letters now in his hands!!! Here then is a most extraordinary cheat put upon College and Jas. Brown; both have been deceived and most egregiously wronged. On the 9th day of March 18 5 7 I delivered the bond and mortgage of Lowber with assignment to Dr. N. and instructions to Brown, after first having read the paper to Dr. sealed and directed to J. B[rown]. Now, L. says and says he can prove it by Dr. N.'s letters, that the Instructions were never delivered to B[rown] --of course then the package was opened and paper abstracted and another, as L says, substituted in its place. I go to bed sick of all the tricks, lies and subterfuges of which men will be guilty to accomplish a selfish end. 
Saturday  November 11, 1860.  Coolish and cloudy and rainy.  
All day at home with wife.  
Monday November  12, 1860.  Cool,  cloudy.  Library  and  

Recitations. Saw Judge Paige who was preparing a letter for Mr. Whiting, Mr. Jas. Brown's lawyer, in regard to the interest which Un. College claims from him. The Judge does not believe Lowbers assertion that the letter of Instructions sent to Brown by Dr. N. was not delivered as directed, but thinks the package was delivered, the seal broken by Brown and the letter of Instructions handed to Dr. N. to get Mr. B. R. Wood's name thereto and never handed back to him, but instead the Instructions of Dr. N. 
Tuesday November 13, 1860. Fine, cool fall day. Saw Judge Paige and got his permission to purchase 4 1000$ 7 % construc[tion] bonds of N. Y. Cent. R.R. Also [saw] Dr. Backus. Dr. B. spoke of Lowbers charge that the Instructions to Jas. Brown were abstracted from the package, another set substituted by Dr. Nott. He does not believe it, and I hope he is right. L. is working to intimidate Dr. N. and his friends in the Board so as to accomplish other schemes of plunder from Dr. N. or from College. 
Wednesday November 14, 1860. Beautiful day. The disunion cry at the South is still kept up and is doing its work among the commercial circles. Money gets tight, stocks of a fancy character fall, and altho' most people here think the flurry will somehow pass by, yet for the present it has its immediate effect upon all business transactions. 
Thursday November 15, 1860. Fine day. After Recitation .from 12 M. to 3 o'clock in Judge Paiges office preparing Land Certificates for the Hunter Pt. property. 
Our old farmer and College outdoor superintendent is now much debilitated with consumption. He will probably not last long. More than forty years he has been a faithful servant of College. 
Friday November 16, 1860. Beautiful day. Indian summer. The usual routine, nothing more. 
Saturday November 17, 1860. Beautiful day. Saw Jos. Picket, offered him 12p pr. day to take C. Reagles place as farmer and "Baas" of outdoor affairs about College. He is to let me know on Monday his decision. 
Tried to get a Finance Comm. meeting for this evening, failed because Dr. Nott is out of town, gone to Troy to visit his grandson, Rev. Henry Potter. 
Sunday November 18, 1860. Indications of rain. At home with wife. 
Monday November 19, 1860. Cloudy, rain in the evening. Judge P. goes to N. Y. this evening to see Mr. C. Ely and Jona. Crane about the Hunter Point business, also about the money to be received from Mr. Jas. Brown on the Lowber bond and mortgage, who now sojourns temporarily in England, unless the suit is withdrawn as against him. 2 Saw Mr. Ely and Crane and arranged to go down and exchange papers in the matter of the Trust on Dec 4. 
Friday November 23, 1860. Rain moderately. Last night some boyish Sophomores burned the two tutors Gordon and Deremer in effigy, for no good reason that I am aware of. The Freshmen and Sophomores were dismissed this afternoon. 
Saturday November 24, 1860. Great rain last night. Today clear and cold, freezing for the first time this season. All day in office, about the usual routine. 
Sunday November 25, 1860. Cold windy. At home with wife. 
Monday November 26, 1860. Cold, windy; wind south. College dismissed today. All day signing Land Certificates for Hunter Point proprietors. 
Tuesday November 27, 1860. Rain during the night and this morning. At work on Land Certificates. Jona. Crane called a few m[inutes] this P.M. Dr. N. sent for me twice: 1. to see when the Fin. Comm. is to meet; ans. 7 o'clock, Wed. evening. at Judge Paige's office. 2. To speak with me about Judge P's answer to Lowber's Complaint, which ans. he says he has read within 48 hours for the first time, forgetting that we have discussed the paper weeks ago. Said as little to him as possible about the matter because he gets excited and fidgetty about business affairs. 
Wednesday November 28, 1860. Beautiful day. All day preparing Land Certif[icates]. The contemplated meeting of our Finance Comm. did not take place this evening by reason of the absence of Mr. Cochrane. 
Thursday, November 29, 1860. Very fine day. Thanksgiving was generally observed by our churches. In office all day engaged upon Land Certificates 
Friday November 30, 1860. Rain and sleet. All day in Office at work on Land Certificates. 
Saturday December 1, 1860. Cold windy day. At seven P.M. the Finance Comm. assembled in the back office of Jackson & Thomson. Present: Dr. Nott, E. C. Delavan, A. C. Paige, C. B. Cochrane; absent Comptroller Denniston and Dr. Backus (out of town). 
Judge Paige read the Certificates and Declaration of Trust and the several Resolutions necessary for the perfection of the Trust of Hunter Point in Un. College and they were passed unan[imously]. First I was appointed permanent secretary. 
After the Hunter Point business, Mr. Delavan introduced the matter of John Nott's salary, or rather I think Dr. N. introduced the matter and spoke in favor of giving him 500$ in addition to his Visitors sal[ary] which is 200 D's., and Mr. Delavan made the motion to give him the sal[ary], which was carried. This is a most singular affair and no one who is not entirely devoid of modesty and propriety would have asked such a thing --no one but Dr. N. would have had the face to thrust his son upon College after he had been absent from College more than 7 years. But so it is and no one seems to have the nerve to oppose the old man in his continual askings and beggings from U. C. 
Mr. Delavan then brought up the matter of the suit with Lowber and Jas. Brown and urged that inasmuch as Lowber was now clear of it, Mr. Brown should also be let off; in other words that the Coll. should lose all the interest not collected by him thro' his neglect and culpable carelessness shall go for nothing. Mr. D's argument is that U. C. will lose more by urging this thing than by letting all go and wiping out all claim against him. Judge Paige ans Mr Cochrane opposed the hasty settling of this matter but still did not suppose the suit would be urged against Mr. Brown. Here again U.C. goes to the wall when coming in colision with Dr. Nott or his friends. More than $10,000 will here be lost because Dr. N interfered between U. 
C. and Lowber and gave instructions to Brown contrary to those sent him by the Fin. Committee. 
Dr. Nott then thro' Mr. Delavan wanted to know about the suit with Lowber about the $10,000 bond and mortgage. Dr. N. wanted to know with some sharpness of manner why this bond and mortgage was sued &c&c. Judge P. explained and so the matter dropped. 
Sunday December 2, 1860. Very windy and cold. At home with wife. Tomorrow expect to go to New York about the Hunter Pt. business with Judge P[aige]. 
Monday December 3, 1860. All day get papers ready for my visit to New York with Judge Paige on business relati[ng] to the Hunter Point. At 2.15 P.M. went to Albany to see Jas. Edwards Esqr. in relation [to] certain Land Certificates pledged with him as Executor of David Tomlinson's Estate, by Jonathan Crane. Saw him and received the 12 certif. to be replaced by the new ones to be issued tomorrow in New York. At 5 o'clock took the Hudson River R. R. for New York with Judge P. With him found 
his son Winslow, Miss Maggy Rhoades, and Mrs. Dora Jackson. 
To one who has seen the scenery of the Hudson an hundred 
times, a night ride is not so tedious as one might suppose. 
Arrived in N.Y. at 10 o'clock and stopped at St. Nicholas Hotel. 
New York Tuesday December 4, 1860. Snow in the morning, then sleet, then rain, then drizzle, then fog. Was not out of the house the whole day. I had prepared 600 certificates of trust for the proprietors of the Hunter Point property in two classes, viz. a Preferred Certif. and a Certif. of Residue. Un. College took none. The nominal value of the property being 900,000 D's. each Certif. represented $1000, the preferred to be paid first with interest, the Residue to take all that remained more or less. These Certif are to be distributed as follows: 
To Jonathan Crane, 50 Preferred Certif and 150 Certif. of Residue 
To Leicester K. Ely, 50 Pref. and 1 SO Residue 
To Charles Ely, 25 Pref. 75 Residue 
To William Judson, 25 Pref 75 Residue --600. 
The Ely's and Crane, being in debt, ordered that certain of their Certif. should be delivered to their Creditors. Hence it [took] some time to select out the different kinds and put them up in packages for the different individuals. All the proprietors were present and signed the Declaration of Trust. The Deeds were then delivered to me as Treasurer of the College, and the work of Distribution of Certif. commenced with those who were present. 
Dined at 5 o'clock. Night away from home and at a hotel is dull and dreary. 
Wednesday December 5, 1860. Breakfast at 7 1/2 and rode down to Hosford's, 57 William St., for a letter from home. All well. Back at 9 1/2 o'clock and at work again upon the Certificates, getting the requisite assignments and receipts ready. Crane and Ely were present nearly all day and various matters of business were discussed, to wit: ( 1) The matter of the Long Island, and N. Y. and Flushing, R. Roads, their rights, locations &c. These two corporations have caused us much trouble because they cannot agree to be neighborly [and] come in upon the same tracks. (2) The cost of executing this trust -.Judge Paige's charge, my salary as general agent for College &c. 
(3) Mr. Crane's resignation to take place in the spring &c. 
Thursday December 6, 1860. Mud, mud, from one end of N. Y. to the other --a perfect sea of mud. Started out with Mr. C. Ely to deliver my batch of Certificates to various persons about the city and walked for some hours. 
Mr. Ely is greatly desirous to get [money?] belonging to Union College. We claim interest from him; he denies our claim. Not less than $6000 [of? and?] the 28,000 D's. in James Brown's hands is at stake but I have no idea that our Trustees will ever force him to pay it, no matter what our claim may be. I said to Ely that, if he could offer a bonus sufficiently large, our trustees might forego their claim for the sake of peace and withdraw their suit, taking the bare 25,000 D's. acknowledged to be ours and such int[erest] as has accrued since he has had it. First Ely offered 4 of the Certif of Residue over and above the 28 Pref., which he gives for the 28,000 D's; then S and finally 6. These certif of Residue will -in the end be worth a thousand D's. and perhaps much more. I told him on the strength of this offer I would go up and see what I could do with our Committee. 
At St. Nicholas I had a few minutes conversation with Judge P. on the subject, but he objected: 1st, because it was too large a sum to loan in one way, too many eggs in one basket; he had no doubt of the security. 2nd, that Nott Trust Fund could not invest in such securities. I said, " Then let us invest for the College, selling some of our bonds and mortgages to N[ott] T[rust] Fund instead, &c&. 
Friday December 7, 1860. Downtown and about, delivering Certificates. Ely has gone to Providence. Letter from home -all well. 
No water in N. Y., the big pipes having burst and let all the water off. Most ridiculous shifts folks were put to for this 
indispensable  article.  Some  go  to  the  old  wells,  some  to  
Brooklyn, to Jersey City, &c.  
Started  at  S o'clock  for ho me  and  arrived  there  at  12  
o'clock at night.  
Union College  

Saturday December 8, 1860. Just enough snow upon the ground to whiten it. Talked with Dr. H[ickok] about Ely's offer 

to give 6 Land Certif. for a loan of 28,000 D's. secured by 28 preferred. He thought well of the project inasmuch as the probabilities are that nothing whatever will be gained from Mr. Brown, of int[erest] which will prove a clear loss. Still I do not feel at all sanguine that anything will be done in the matter. Judge P. seems rather fixed in his views of the matter, and does not like to approve of the investment. 
Sunday December 9, 1860. At home all day with wife. 
Monday December 10, 1860. Snow, wet snow from southeast. Saw Judge P. and Dr. H. again abt. the Ely offer, but no progress made. Judge P. holds off, and as I go to N. Y. tomorrow and Judge P. to Clifton next week, and Dr. N. to Philadelphia 
(probably), I fear nothing will be done. 
With Dr. Nott's approval (and a letter to Mr. Littlefield, the inventor) and Dr. Hickok's assent, I went to Albany and purchased 4 of "Littlefields Rail Road Burners" for our Recitation Rooms. Price 25% under retail price. 
Disunion is ripe in all the Extreme South and nothing seems likely now to stop it. It seems as tho' the very demon of discord was let loose and could by no charms be sent back again to his den. So God in his widsom is chastising a boastful nation for its sins; the very source of wealth, of iniquitous wealth, to one section is made the Golden Apple of discord to send the opposite extremes, and shiver a Union once cemented by the blood of our fathers. 
New York Tuesday December 11, 1860. Last week I did not finish the work of distributing the áLand Certificates and other matters connected with the transfer of the Hunter Point property to Union College in trust. It was thought best therefore that I should return to New York today and finish this business. Started from home at 3.40 P. M. and reach[ed] N.Y. at 10 o'clock, Stopped at St. Nicholas Hotel. 
Wednesday December 12, 1960. Windy, cold and dusty. After breakfast sallied out and called upon Clapp, Kent, & Beckley, to [whom] I gave 12 Certificates, they giving Un. Coll. a bond of Indemnity against 12 other certificates which they have lost. Mr. Charles Ely called and I went with him to his office, 264 Greenwich St., where I remained several hours talking over 
matters and things relating to the Point property and its future management and value. 
Ely controls about 5/9 of the property, having 3/9 of his own and a large proportion of Jona. Crane's 2/9, but he is much embarrassed with debts and is pressed for money to meet them. This being the case, he very much desires the College to help him by advancing money upon his Preferred Certificates. College has no immediate means of raising [money?] except by obtaining the funds now in Mr. James Brown's hands belonging to College. Here again is a difficulty; College claims 6000 D's. of int[erest] from Mr. B.; he refuses to pay it or to pay over the principal unless we release him from all claims of every kind. Now, to help the matter and unlock this difficulty, Ely offers for the 28000 D's. thus withheld 28 of his Prefered Certif. and 6 Certif of Residue, the latter 6 being supposed to be worth 6000 D's. and fully equivalent to the int[erest] we claim from Brown. Now the difficulty lies in getting Judge Paige to consent to this arrangement; he does not entirely approve of the arrangement; and I suppose in part because, being the counsel for the Board, he is not well satisfied with the spirit and course of the Browns in their dealings with the College. Called upon Carpenter & Vermilye Brokers and left 1000 D's to buy a N. Y. Cent. R. R. Bond (at l0p) , for College, and 1000$ for myself to buy 14 shares of N. Y. Centr. R. R. Stock at 70, if it can be had. Called upon W. J. Forbes, So. William St., and left 8 Certif. and then to Hosfords, 57 William St. Back to St. Nich. to dinner and wrote to wife. 
Hunter Point Thursday December 13, 1860. Cold windy day. Up at 7, breakfast, and started from Gramercy Park House, where Mr. Ely boards. With him started for Hunter Point where I spent the entire day, talking over matters with him, Mr. Crane and Anable. If the present political troubles do not very much depreciate the value of real estate about New York, this Point property must be very valuable and come speedily into market. Back to St. Nicholas ; dined at 6 o'clock and wrote letter home; read the papers and to bed. 
Friday December 14, 1860. Arose at 20 before 7, breakfasted, wrote a letter home and reached Gramercy Park House at 9 o'clock A. M. Extremely cold and windy. With Anable rode to Astoria to acknowledge some papers and back by one o'clock, after which returned to lunch at St. Nich. and downtown to Carpenter & Vermilye's office; found they had bought a Bond of N. Y. Cent. R.R. 7% for 101. No stock yet. 
Spent an hour with Hosford, 57 William St. To various book stores for a Dutch Grammar for Mrs. Judge Paige but found only a small one --Ahn's --such as she now has. Back to St. Nich. to dinner 5 to 6 o'clock. A sad place is New York. The contrasts are shocking and to one not used to such extremes full of sorrow. Such folly, such show, such wealth, such misery, rags, and poverty, as one finds here! Where can we meet with such opposites! 
Home Saturday December 15, 1860. A dreadful cold day. At 11 o'clock I started from New York to come home. Soon after leaving the city snow appeared and floating ice in the river. A slow tedious train we had and did not reach Albany till 5 1/2 
P. M.; and home at 7 o'clock.. All well, but dreadfully cold. 
Sunday December 16, 1860. Pretty cold but not so cold as yesterday. At home all day with wife. 
Monday December 17, 1860. Milder, wind south. Called upon Judge Paige. He says Finance Comm. meet on EQHting ht 8-=´?2 Crane of Green Putnt. 
blood. His loo ándicate debility; he is nearly a worn ou an. A more faithful se t Union College never had, he s toiled on for more than fo perquisites & no pickings. A long call this evening from Prof. same nice little man, -, ..... and
a good large "'" ...... "-.about himself his, and perfectly satisfied with á place-Co. ol. has more wealth than it knows what to o with -its stude are all gentlemen -all rich -all Fift Madison Aven. people, & , J may do for N.Y. but he is o worker: he has but little caliber is not worth half the as á tant whom he left behind him -C.F.C. Fa. Harvey came t ay from Canada & is busy moving his furniture out of á sold house Some of it comes into our house -the rest goe o the Remer house on the "Hill" 1860 Un. Hege Sept 6 Fine day -Fine shower at Thurs. noon. Stud s come in slowly; -fewer entrances than last year at 

