
[The section of the Pearson diary covering Dec. 18, 1860 .June 25, 1861 was accidentally omitted from the original printout of the stripped text. The following 16 pages should be inserted after the entry for Dec. 1 7, 1860, which ends in mid-sentence.] 
Thursdays next week to consider matters and things in general in relation to College. They are to meet in Albany with such other Trustees residing there as can come together, at which meeting Dr. Hickok is to appear and make a statement. 
Saw Doctor Backus, stated Ely's proposition; he approved of it. I think he will go for it unless something happens to prevent more than I now see. P. M. In office at usual work. 
Tuesday December 18, 1860. Fine cold winter day. Saw Dr. Backus who is urgent to have carried out the arrangement with Ely for the settlement of the Brown difficulty. He wished me to see Judge P[aige] but I found he had gone to Albany and moreover was going to Clifton Spgs. today. The rest of the day in o ffice. 
Wednesday December 19, 1860. Snow --4 or 5 inches. In office all day. Had a talk with Dr. Hickok over my account between Dr. Nott and Un. College, prepared in answer to certain statements made by Lowber in his bill of complaints. After such explanations as he required, it seemed satisfactory to him. 
Thursday December 20, 1860. Rain during the night and during the day with fog. All day in Treas. Office. 
Friday December 21, 1860. Mild, thawing, snow mostly gone. Saw Dr Backus: talked about the Brown suit and the desirableness of compromising it; he has had two conversations with Judge [Paige], the cheif opponent. From all I can gather, I dont feel very sanguine that the Judge will fall in with it. Dr. B. also said that Prof. Stanton had been appointed Principal of the Union School in place of Mr. Ben.nett, resigned. He asked if we could get money to pay his additional 500 D's. of sal[ary], making it 1500 D's. by College. Answered that, if we got a new division of bonds and mortgages at H[unter] Point as we hoped to do, then the addition could be made. Union College and Albany Saturday December 22, 1860. Rain, snow, sleet, mud &c. 8 o'clock Ms. Harvey left this morning for Clifton Springs to see Sarah. Went to Albany to Mr. Delavan and others in relation to the contemplated Finance Comm. Meeting to be held in Albany on Thurs. of next week. Called upon Mr. D., could'nt find him; upon Mr. Denniston, Compt.roller, gone home to Orange Co. for Christmas; upon Secretary of State Jones, ditto. Then gave up my search and sat down in Sec. State's office and looked over records. Dep. Comptroller Phelps being in his office, enquired for the records of the Lottery Managers in 1819 --could'nt be found: no one had ever heard of any such papers. Came home at 12.40 P.M. having accomplished nothing of my errand. 

P. M. In office. Tonight it freezes; very slippery and windy. 
Sunday December 23, 1860. Cold and windy. At home with wife. 
Monday December 24, 1860. Cold and windy. All day in Office writing. 
Tuesday December 25, 1960. Fair winter weather, a little snow towards night. In office nearly all day. Wrote invitations to all Fin. Com. Resident Trustees and Trustees in Albany to attend a meeting of Finance Comm. to be held in office of Sec. of State, Albany, Thurs. 27 of Dec. inst. at 9 o'clock A. M. At this meeting it is understood that Dr. Hickok will make a statement of his position and standing as Vice President and throw himself upon their sympathy for moral support in management of College. 
P. M. Saw Judge Paige, gave him the Long Is. R.R. contract and deed just received today from Anable. 
Wednesday December 26, 1860. Moderate day. Good sleighing, not much snow but a thin coat of ice. All day in Office. 
Union College and Albany Thursday December 27, 1860. At 8 o'clock A. M. went to Albany with Dr. Hickok, Dr. Backus and Judge Paige to attend the meeting of the Fin. Comm. and Trustees at the office of the Secretary of State. 9 o'clock was the hour appointed for the meeting but it was 10 1/2 before we could get the gentlemen together. Notice had been given to all the Trustees living in Albany as well as in Schenectady. After running about calling on Judge Harris, Mr. Delavan &c., got a quorum together and the business began by a Statement from Dr Hickok of the peculiarly delicate situation in which he is placed by the absence of Dr. Nott, by being delegated with the .duties of the President without any of his power. He desired not only their vote of the 
necessary power but their sympathy and cooperation. It was 
promised and apparently heartily. The Trustees also voted to do 
away with evening prayers at the discretion of the Vice President till 
next Comm't. 
Finally the law suit with Brown came up and after a full 
interchange of opinions, the Finance Comm. voted to absolve Mr. 
Brown from legal obligations to U. C. on the money now in his hands 
being delivered up to us. Also to buy of Mr. Ely 28 Pref. and 7 
Residue Certificates with the money now in Mr. B's hands, being 
about 28,000 Doll's. Adjourned and home at 1.20 P.M. In office P.M. 
Friday December 28, 1860. All day in Office at work upon Report to the Regents of University of the State. Received word from C. Ely to.day by telegraph that he accepted my offer to let him have the money in Mr. Brown's hands (28,000 D's. more or less) for 28 Prefd. Certificates and 7 Certificates of Residue. I hope to go down on Monday to finish up this business and get the end of it. 
Saturday December 29, 1860. Finished Regents Report and this evening got it signed by Judge Paige, C. B. Cochrane and Dr. Backus. This evening called upon Judge P. to get him to draw up the paper withdrawing the Lowber suit as against Mr. James Brown, by which withdrawal we are expecting to get the 28,000 Doll's. in his hands and to invest it in the Certificates of Trust of Hunter Point prop[erty]. The Judge promised to prepare the paper tonight so that I can have it tomorrow. I am now hoping to go down to N. Y. on this business Monday morning at 5.30 A.M. By so doing, hope to give the business a start on Monday so as to return early in the week. 
Sunday December 30, 1860. Snow and sleet this afternoon and evening. At home. Have the influenza, hoarseness of throat &c. Judge áP. has not the papers for me but promises to have them done and 
sent to me in the morning before I go at 5.30. 
New York Monday December 31, 1860. Arose this morning at 3 o'clock and copied certain of Judge Paige's papers, took a lunch and at 5 o'clock started for the R. R. Depot. 5.35 Started for Albany and without accident or detention reached N. Y. at 12 M. As tomorrow is dies non among business men, after leaving my carpet-bag at the St. Nicholas, I hastened to 61 Wall Street to see the Attorney of Mr. Brown for the purpose of closing up my business this afternoon, or at least of getting it well under way. The first obstacle which I met with was the question of legal costs. Mr. Brown says Un. Coll. must pay his costs. I demurred to this and said our Fin. Com. would never listen to such a proposition and moreover that I never would ask them to do so. I then asked them to send to the N. Y. Life Ins. and Trust Co's office and get the amount which Mr. Brown had deposited there to await the termination of the lawsuit. On doing so, it was found that instead of there being 28,000 D's. for me, they had only 26,000 D's. including accumulated interest. No one seemed to know where the missing 2000 D's. had gone to. Finally as nothing could be determined to-day I left. promising to call again on Wed. the second of Jan. 

Tuesday Januaryl, 1861. I started from home with a bad cold, sore throat, hoarseness, and some fever. Want of sleep, a cold ride, several hours talking &c. did not make it any better, and last night I made up my mind to go home this morning if I felt no better. Getting to bed in good season I hoped that sleep would be the best antidote to the disease; and so it would if it [could] have been had --but from early evening till dawn the streets seemed given up to a rabble of bedlamites whose shoutings, songs, firing of guns, drummings, bell.ringings and what not frightened away sleep and made night hideous and doleful in the extreme. Not a wink of good sleep did I get the whole night; and moreover I was racked with chills and fever. Arose at 8, took a little breakfast, and sallied out for a walk; found the air clear, cold but bracing and the sun shining brightly . Called upon Mr. Ely at Gramercy Park House and detailed my difficulties, particularly the loss of the interest on the 40,000 while Mr. B. had it. E. suggested that perhaps Lowber might be able to give some clue to it and we went down to his house, 166. E. 18th St., and finding him in sat an hour or more talking on various matters. Lowber said that he presumed that Mr. B., in his dealings with him (L.), took out of the interest certain rents which were due him, but which he (L.) had subsequently paid in cash. 
1 We then got upon the question wheth-er Brown ever received from U. C. the letter of Instructions. L. said, as before, that he knew he never received it. He says Dr. N. sent down another letter of his own to Mr. B. and that sometime in 1858, more than a year afterwards he sent the original letter to C. N. Potter, who put it away in his safe where it now lies. I said that I had never believed such a statement because the believing it obliged me to supposed Dr. 
N. to [be] a dishonest, criminal man. I could not bring my mind to think that he would do so mean a trick to accomplish his ends. 

2. Lowber then spoke of the project of Dr. Nott's of putting a second mortgage of 40,000 D's. upon the Van Alts Farm at Hunter Point. In Dec. 1856 this attempt was made but failed because Judge P[aige] opposed it as being illegal and contrary to the Trust Deed of Dr. N.; for this opposition both Judge P., Dr. Hickok and myself were roundly abused, and finally, the Dr. made the assertion that he never had the remotest intention of putting the new mortgage upon an old one, but intended first to pay off the prior mortgage of 25,000. Lowber, on the contrary, says (without any questioning from me) that the Dr, did intend to put a second mortgage upon the Van Alts farm, but when he found it would not be allowed by the Fin. Comm. he changed his tactics and agreed to pay off the prior one before the other was made. 
á At one o'clock P.M. went back to St. Nich. and spent the P.M. writing and copying papers. 
Wednesday January 2, 1861. To Wall St. at 9 o'clock and com.menced negociations with Mr. Whiting, Mr. Brown's lawyer; and after talking all day, came to this result: 1 U. C. is to take what money is now in the N. Y. Life Ins. and Trust Co., $26,231.30. 2 to wait till Mr. Brown can be heard from when the bal[ance] of interest 
is to be paid and then M'r. B. released from the suit, but not Lowber. 3 The question of costs to be left for future adjustment. 
I accepted this as the best I could get, took my check for the money and left for Mr. Ely's Office, 264 Greenwich St. N. Y. where in half an hour I finished up my business with him. Thus For $28,000 I bought 28. Preferred Certif. and seven Certif. of Residue, in all 35, worth full 35,000 D's, thus making seven thousand Doll's. for Coll. As I had but 26,231.30 D's. I gave him my due bill for the bal[ance] -.$1768. 70 --to be paid when Mr. Brown consents to pay the bal[ance] of int[erest]. My business was now done. Tomorrow I leave for home. 
New York and Home] Thursday January 3, 1861. Up at 6 o'clock. Breakfast and started at 7 for home. All night it rained and this morning, but as we neared and passed the Highlands the rain turned to snow. Home at 1.20 P.M., found Fa[ther] Harvey had arrived from N[ew] O[rleans] this morning. All well. 
Friday January 4, 1861. National Fast Day by appointment of the Pres[ident] --quite generally observed. In office part of day. Term opens today --but few students in. Fae. Meeting tonight. Appointed 

me Secretary, the first regularly appointed sec[retary]. 
For many years. Dr N. did not approve of Fae. and Trustees meetings, hence he would not never allow of any formal meeting, any sec[retary] or any minutes. Those minutes in the old book, professedly of the Fae., were made by Dr. N's order by the Registrar or Registrar's clerk who was not even present at the meetings. 
Saturday January 5, 1861. Beautiful winter day, fine sleighing. All day in office. Stud[ents] begin to come in. Edw. Magoun came yesterday. It is rumoured that 10 of our Southern students mean to secede so soon as they get money to carry them home. Foolish boys! Some would probably be obliged to leave for want of application in any case; others stay only by sufferance. A southern boy's training is almost always deficient and it is very difficult for him to apply his mind laboriously to his book. 
Sunday January 6, 1861. Warm, snow melting. At Bapt. [Ch.] at 2 P.M. at the monthly Communion. 
Monday january 7, 1861. Rain most of the day. Began College duties today. My recitations are the usual ones for this term --two divisions of the Sophomores in Higher Algebra. Met them at 10 and 11 A. M. 
The cry of secession is said to have reached our southern students in College, and ten of them 'tis said are resolved to go home. The loss will not be great except to their creditors who feel much exercised by the report. 
Tuesday January 8, 1861. Very slippery and pretty cold. Rec. at 10 andl 1 o'clock. The rest of the day in Treas. office. 
The revolution at the South moves on apace --a rebellion against the general Government in favor of the spread of Slavery! a revolution to make slaveholding a national institution and respectable! I think something will be yeilded to the South, which together with a little wholesome force may for a time force back into the Union the seceding states, but I do not believe the question will be finally settled by any such concessions. If slavery should become unprofitable in the meantime, if the Union can hold together till such an event, it may be cemented and perpetuated, but unless such a change comes about soon we much seperate. The slave-holding states must form a nation by themselves, and I doubt not that the time may come within 25 years when secession will be heard at the North when the Free states will demand to be seperated from the foul stain of slavery. 

Wednesday january 9, 1861. Good winter weather, cold and fine sleighing. Tonight it snows, wind from the East. All day in Office. 
Thursday January 10, 1861. College matters go on smoothly. As yet there are no jars and it is to be hoped none will arise. All Professors seem determined to help the Vice Pres. in sustaining the discipline and government of College. 
Friday January 11, 1861. Union College. The rebellion at the South makes rapid strides; the "fire-eaters" have full control and all opposition and all conservative men are hushed as by death. A more singular instance of infatuation, of causeless rebellion, never showed itself in a well-ordered and happy government. With a surfeit of blessings and over-abounding prosperity, when not an element of discord ought to be heard from any part of the nation, we see the whole line of Cotton Gulf States in the most wonderful, unheard of excitement of wrath and indignation --:for what? Who knows? The ostensible reasons are simply that Mr. Lincoln has been elected President, tho' every one knows that this is not the true reason. 
Saturday January 12, 1861. Very cold this evening. Mrs. Nott sends me a letter saying that Mrs. Crugar has given another $1,500 toward her "President's House" and that G. I. Van Vranken is to go on immediately with the work. 
Sunday January 13, 1861. Thermometer stood at -22 á this morning! and all day the cold was intense. At home all day. In the N. Y. Observer of this week is reprinted from the Princeton Rev. an able article on the present crisis of affairs by Dr. Hoage. It embodies in clear and concise terms the most masterly exposition of our difficulties and the remedies that I have seen in any paper. 
Monday January 14, 1861. Thermometer -18 á last night and -12' this morning. This afternoon milder and some snow. Called on Judge Paige on business, to get the Hunter Point deeds for Anabel. Fa[ther] Harvey went to Clifton Spgs. this morning to see Sarah Harvey. 
Tuesday January 15, 1861. A little snow every few days, making good sleighing. 
Wednesday January 16, 1861. Rain all day, sometimes furiously. 

This evening attended the yearly meeting of the Baptist Church on business. The most important matter discussed and settled was the question whether we shall continue our present pastor, Mr. Horace G. Day. This was taken up at his request because he had heard that some members of the Ch. had endeavored to create dissatisfaction with him. After a full discussion in which nearly all the members spoke highly in his favor, the vote was unanimous that the call be re.newed and that he have our sympathy. and hearty cooperation. 
Thursday January 17, 1861. Thawing, but no rain. Faculty Meeting this even'g at 4 P. M. in Treas. office at which the Vice-Pres. made some remarks and gave advise on certain points. 
Friday January 18, 1861. Mrs. Nott writes for the carpenter Van Vranken and the mason Brignall to go on with the unfinished house called "President's House," begun some years ago by Dr~ N. with money given by Mrs. Cruger of N. Y. and her bros. They gave at first $3,500 and now Mrs. C. promises another $1,500, which altho' not enough to finish it will, by great economy, go far towards it perhaps. There ought to be expended at least $5,000 more to make the inside correspond with the plan. $10,000 at least will be the cost of the House which is $5,000 more than should have been expended upon a house in Schen. 
Saturday January 19, 1861. Weather is getting colder. Riding yesterday into the country a few miles I find a good body of snow lying upon the ground. 
Sunday January 20, 1861. At home with wife. Bro-in-law Magoun came last night and spends the Sabbath with us. 
Monday January 21,1861. Pretty cold, wind light from west. 9 to 10 In Library. 10 to 12 In Algebra Recitations . Bro-in-law Magoun left at 1 0 A.M. for home. Son John is taken with severe fever and a little inflammation of lungs. Girl, Rosa Corrigan, taken down also with cold and symptoms of pleurisy. 
Tuesday January 22, 1861. Very cold and windy. Son John very sick --fever runs high, lungs sore, we feel considerable alarm for him. If it please God, may we not loose another of our dear boys; still, if prepared, the parting is not so greivous as a long life of wickedness. 
Wednesday January 23, 1861. Pretty cold weather. Son John is 

quite sick; the fever still rages with some symptoms of diphtheria, that scourge of our children in many parts. We employ the homeopa.thic treatment, altho' to say the truth I have not much faith in medicine of any kind except in certain special cases. Swits is our physician. May the Good Lord bless even our feeble means to cure the dear boy. 
Thursday January 24, 1861. Son John a little better. Rumors of secession still come on every breeze from the South, and it now looks as tho' every slave state would become disaffected and go off to form a new Southern Confederacy. Madness and passion rule, violence and war seem ready to follow apace. The great battle of slavery and freedom for the ascendency in the national government is now being fought and if the fight be bloodless it will be only thro' the overruling of a good Providence. 
Friday January 2 5, 1861. Whatever may be the result of compr[om]ising measures, one fact remains a strong and, I fear, irradicable: enmity between the North and South.on the question of slavery. A patched-up peace will not heal the deadly breach which has for long years been widening between the two sections. Mutual interests may keep the States together a little while longer but no love will hereafter be lost between them. We must seperate --the sooner the better, if only peaceably. I see only one hope aside from an Overruling and Disposing Providence, and that is the probability of the dethronement of King Cotton before twenty-five years come to an end, by the introduction of Indian, Chinese, and African cotton. Make slavery unprofitable, and its death knell will soon be sounded. 
Albany and Union College Saturday January 26, 1961. Today I went to Albany with Mr. Jonathan Crane to transact some business for him. He owed the Estate of the late Judge Tomlinson of this city over 5,000$ for which he was sued, and certain securities given as collateral were in danger of being sold, namely ten Certificates of Trust upon the Hunter and Green Points Property. Crane could not raise the money. He applied to College for help; the money we had not; the nearest to it was a few N. Y. Cent. R. R. bonds which are of quick sale above par in N. Y. Edwards, the Exec[utive Officer?] of Judge Tomlinson, offered to take them in lieu of cash, and Crane then made the proposition that College should let him [have?] 7000$ or bonds for which he would give the Coll. 7 Preferred Certif. of Trust and 2 Certif. of Trust of Residue on H[unter] and G[reen] Points prop[erty] worth at least 

9,000$. The offer was accepted and today I went to A[lbany] with him and arranged the business with Edwards. Son John improves a little. 
Sunday January 27, 1861. At home all day with wife and son John, who is mending visibly. 
Monday january 28, 1861. Frequent small snow storms heap up the snow to a great depth. G. I. Van Vranken, carpenter, has begun the finishing of the Presidents House by order of Mrs. Nott; began today. He is to do all the carpenters work for 1800 D's. 
Son John much improved, thanks to a good Providence. 
Tuesday January 29, 1861. Fine winter weather and abundance of snow. Son John is doing well, thanks to a kind Providence. Yesterday G. I. Van Vranken began to finish Dr. Notts new House, called the President's House, which was began 4 yrs. ago. The Douglas [Cruger?] family in N. Y. have contributed 3,500 D's. and promise $1,500 more, which will about meet one half of the expense. It is a great barn of a house and will cost twice the sum that ought to have been expended upon a house for any College officer. 
Wednesday January 30, 1861. Wind furious from the west and the [snow] flies in clouds --the most blustering day of the season. 
Thursday January 31, 1861. Fine winter day. Last day of the month and of the quarter; drew checks for salaries &c. Nott Trust Fund has no money; must resort to a loan to pay salaries. Son John is gaining fast, sits up a little each day. 
Friday February 1, 1861. Pay day. Checks made for all. Nott Trust Fund is behind as usual; no money and obliged to borrow. Like every one bearing the name, it is always "short." 
West Troy &c. Saturday February 2, 1861. 8 o'clock. Went to Albany and from thence to Troy and W. Troy. At Troy got the Farmer's Bank dividend on 5900 D's. Stock, 3% for six mos. --$177. This dividend used to be twice this amount. Thence to West Troy and at the bank got 4 79 D's. of rent already paid in. 12 o'clock started for home. 

Sunday February 3, 1861. All day at home sick of a cold, and on the bed. 
Monday February 4, 1861. All day at home again sick. 
Tuesday february 5, 1861. The great rebellion at the South is hardening and about to take form and proportions in a formal con.federacy or new United States. Yesterday the Convention opened their sessions at Montgomery, Ala. At the same time commenced what has been denominated the Peace Convention at Washington, consisting of Commissioners from the northern and border slave States. Something is hoped from them altho the bad conduct of the extreme South has so disgusted the North that compromises are al.most out the question. 
Wednesday February 6, 1861. "Esquire" Perry (Roswell) died today, an aged man of long standing in Schenectady. Few of the old men of 25 years since now survive; death has invaded almost every house. 
Thursday February 7, 1861. A furious storm of snow from the West for one hour this P. M. Tonight is intense and wind blowing furiously. 
Friday February 8, 1861. Thermometers indicate this morning a very low temperature. Prof. Jackson's stood at -27 ¡ ! Peter Palmer, 3 m[ile]s east tells me his thermom. stood at -28 ¡. The mercury was hardly above O all day. What will the poor do this dreadful weather! 
Saturday February 9, 1861. This morning mercury stood at -18 ¡. All the forenoon running about paying up bills for self. I think I owe nothing. There is great demand for small loans these times. College has calls almost every day for such. 
Sunday February 10, 1861. Fine mild day. Fa[ther] Harvey returned from N. Y. --a few days absence --this morning at 12 midnight. 
Monday February 11. 1861. Thawing all day. Teaching algebra to a set of dull fellows is the hardest punishment this side of Purgatory! nothing more disgusting! 
The "2nd Dutch Church Case" before Judge Harris, Referree, is argued today. This involves title to the Church, corner of Liberty and Jay Sts., in this city. The Congregationalists now hold possession of the property. 

Tuesday Februaryl2, 1861. Rain, warm, and melting, all afloat with water. 
Wednesday February 13, 1861. Warm, but no rain The ice has moved in the Mohawk and Hudson altho of great thickness; some say 30 in. thick and very strong. Great damage in Albany as usual from ice and high water. 
Saw Judge P[aige] today on business about Jas. Brown's suit and the Lowber bond and mortgage. 
Thursday February 14, 1861. Fine mild day. Fae. Meeting this P. M. at Treas. office at which various matters were talked over and some resolutions were passed, as the minutes show. Until this session the Fae. have not had a secretary for many years. No minutes have been kept. Dr. N. has always discouraged Fae. meetings, claiming and using all power himself. U. C. has been a one-man College in that respect; even the Trustees have had as little chance of doing anything as he could arrange matters. This session the Fae. have ordered minutes to be kept. 
Friday February 15, 1861. Mild, thawing; sleighing nearly ruined. Snow and sleet tonight. "Secession" is getting to be an old story now. The present topic of conversation is President Lincoln's progress from Illinois towards Washington .. 
College goes on prosperously; as yet all is quietness and good order. 
Saturday February 16, 1861. Thawing all day, all slush and water. Vice Pres. Hickok preaches to the students tonight in Chapel. All day writing "duns" etc., in office. 
Sunday February 17, 1861. Fine warm day. At church --Bapt. --in forenoon. Mr. Day preached. 
Monday February 18, 1861. The event today was the passing of Mr. Lincoln, the Pres. Elect, on his way to Washington. All the town and his wife were at the Depot to see the sight. Staid away for want of room. 
Tuesday February 19, 1861. Fine moderate day. Last night held our usual farce called an Examination for deficiencies on account of absences from Coll. or otherwise. The average scholarship was shown! 
Wednesday February 20, 1861. Snow till 12 o'clock. 6 in. or more, wet and this P. M. much softened. Continuation of our Examination, but few present. This P. M. had a call from Dr. Backus: long talk on heating apparatus. He gives his preference to Gold's steam app[aratus] which he has used two winters. 
Thursday February 21, 1861. Very windy, cold. The call for a 
celebration of Washingtons Birthday tomorrow by the students is very urgent, but will not succeed. 
Friday February 22, 1861. Fine day. Recitations as usual. 
Saturday February 23, 1861. Fine day. Today I am 48 yrs. old_: looking back, I have much to be grateful for in the year past -.health, prosperity, friends, comfortable prospects for the future! What more is needed? 
The past year has witnessed also one loss never to be made up: a beloved sister who died on the 12 of May. How inscrutable are the ways of Providence herein. That she, the least likely to die to human appearances of any one of our little family, should be the first to be called! Who will be summoned next? May we all be prepared for the call and leave triumphant over sin and death. 
Sunday February 24, 1861. Fine day, but cool and windy. At home all day with wife. Read a sermon from the "Independent" by H. W. Beecher. Some of these productions are really very fine practical dis.courses, full of genius and apt comparisons. I suppose his theology would not be considered sound by many tho' it does not often appear in his sermons. 
Monday February 25, 1861. Beautiful day. This P. M. rode out to P. Riley Toll's in Glenville. Road much obstructed by snow drifts. 
Tuesday February 26, 1861. Weather like spring and the snow passing away rapidly. These troublous times in the affairs of the nation are sad and perplexing. The wisest look around in vain for relief from impending evils and and threatening war between bretheren. The causes for this state of things are so ridiculously inadequate for such huge and disproportionate results that one looks upon them with wonder and incredulity. It would seem that all precedents ---all judgements --fail and one is left to distrust his own experience and almost his own eyes. One hope only remains for 
the Christian man: that God reigns and amidst all confusion and wars 
he controls  the ends of men  and out  of disorder  brings  order  and  
peace.  
U. C. and New York  
Wednesday  February  27, 1861.  The  1st  day  of March  I had  

appointed to meet Mr. Jas. Brown's attorney, Jno. N. Whiting, of 61 Wall. St., and make a final settlement of the Lowber bond andá mortgage, also to meet the proprietors of Hunter Point and make a distribution of the bonds and mortgages now on hand. Accordingly I started this P. M. at 3.40 o'clock for N. Y. going by the way of Troy on account of the ice at Albany. We had several detentions on the way and were on that account half an hour behind time in N. Y. Arrived at 10 1/2 at the St. Nicholas Hotel. 
Thursday February 24, 1861. A most beautiful warm day. The streets dry and dusty; winter clothing oppressive. 10 1/2 o'clock Called upon Hosford, 57 and 59 Wm. St.,á then upon Mr. Whiting, 61 Wall St. , attorney for Jas. Brown. Instead of finding him ready for a final settlement, learned that C. N. Potter, Mr. B's former attorney, had written from Paris where he now is that he desired certain charges amounting to $1500 or thereabouts to be deducted from the monies due U. C. from Mr. Brown. These charges were of a nature in no way applicable to U. C. and therefore not allowable by me. This I told Mr. W[hiting] and it was readily admitted by him, but as he had never known the relative claims of the parties and had not been authorized to settle upon the terms offered by Un. Coll. he desired as a favor that U. C. should delay the final settlement until May when C 
N. Potter will return. As the money due U. C. is now on int]erest], I did not so much object to this arrangement. 
Leaving Wall St. I went up to corner of 36 St. and Av. B. to see Miller and Shawman, Lumber Merch'ts. who I was informed had a claim upon the lot of P. Fagan, now mortgaged to U. C. Found neither of them, then went down to corn. of 18 St. and 2nd Av. to Mr. Miller's house but did not find him at home. 
Thence to R. W. Lowber's Lime House, corner of 18th St. and Av. C. --did not find him; thence to St. Nicholas to lunch, to 61 Wall St. again to see Lowber at his office there, but learned that he is in Washington. 
Dropped in to several old book stores in Nassau St. and back to St. Nich. to dinner at 5 o'clock. A hard day's tramp. 

N. York and Hunter Point Friday March 1, 1861. Beautiful bright day. At 8 1/2 o'clock called at Gramercy Park House for Mr. Chas. Ely and together we went to H. Point, where we met Mr. Jona. Crane and H. S. Anable. After much discussion we made a provisional division of $62,800 worth of bonds and mortgages betw. the proprietors, all of which goes to U. C. --1/3 in its own right and 2/3 for the bond and mortgage of Crane and Ely of 40,000 D's. and 8 mos. int[erest] on it. This div[ision?] is to be submitted to our Fin. Comm. for their final sanction. In afternoon went with H. S. Anabel to Astoria to acknowledge several deeds and back to N. Y. to dinner at 6 o'clock. Another hard days work. 
Saturday March 2, 1861. Beautiful day. Saw a man sowing seeds in his garden. 10 o'clock Called upon Mr. Ely, 264 Greenwich St., and with him went to 64 Wall St to see Jno. E. Parsons, attor'y of N. Y. and Flushing R. R. Co., about an exchange of property at H. Point; did not find him in, but found Mr. Smith, Pres. of the Co. and had a long talk with him. 
To 208 Broadway to see Nelson Smith, attor'y for Miller and Shoreman abt. the P. Fagan property; not in. Called again; not in and came away with promise from the clerk to write me about the business, but he will forget it. 
Back to St. Nicholas. Dined at 3 and at 5 o'clock P. M. on board the Hudson R.R. train, started for Sthen. where arrived at 12. 
Sunday March 3, 1861. Very tired, and a cold. At home all day with wife. 
Monday March 4, 1861. Fine day. We have the Pres. Message to.night by telegraph and hear that all things passed off prosperously at the Inauguration. What a strange state we have come to when the Pres. of these states takes his seat under the threats of assassination and the fears of all his friends and the lover[s] of good order and their country! God save the country. 
Tuesday March 5, 1861. Very high water in the Mohawk. High wind from west. R. R. travel on the Central obstructed at Fort Plain by water. Judge P. called to know what I had done at N. Y. 
Wednesday March 6, 1861. March wind, squalls. Jno. Nott called at office for his sal[ary] and desired to have it hereafter protected so that his creditors could not reach it. Promised to pay it one day in advance if he would call for it. 

Thursday March 7, 1861. When I was in New York, Mr. Whiting, attorney for Jas. Brown, read to me a few lines from a letter of C. N. Potter's to him, in which he says plainly that the compromise made with R. W. Lowber by which he was paid 15000 Doll's. out of the money in Mr. Brown's hands, was made entirely for Lowber's interest without any just claim upon Union College. Potter considered this payment most unjust and improper as regards the College. Whiting says also that Mr. Brown feels friendly towards College, knowing I suppose how much not only he but the College have been outraged by----"----and Lowber in this business. 
Friday March 8, 1861. Wind strong from south. Dr. L[ewis], the most nervous, fidgetty man in College, went off this afternoon into one of his tirades against College for not giving him a better house, threatening to sue College for damages in domiciling him in such a shabby manner. He got almost wild with excitement and went off in a huge pet. It is a pity so worthy a man should use so little discretion and reason in matters of so small moment. I have so often been obliged to put up with his scolding that it requires more patience than I can master to put up with it calmly. 
Saturday March 9, 1861. Rain, sleet, slush &c. all day --the most disagreeable day of the season. About town in the forenoon. At Judge Paiges upon Hunter Pt. business &c. and in office in afternoon. Fa[ther] Harvey came last night. 
Sunday March 10, 1861. Very slushy walking. To Bapt. Church in forenoon. 
Monday March 11, 1861. Opened Library from 9 to 10 o'clock. As session draws to a close, the spirit of fun and mischeif rises among the boys of College. The session has thus far been uncommonly quiet and a good amount of study has been done by those who usually apply themselves. As to my own classes in Algebra, they have not satisfied me at all. I have never have had so many dunces and lazy fellows since I began to instruct in College. 
Tuesday March 12, 1861. Disagreeable March weather, a little snow daily, much mud, slush, and water; wet feet and plenty of colds. Dr. L[ewis] still harps upon the old strain --his miserable house and inadequate salary. Poor nervous man and unhappy! . 

Wednesday March 13, 1816. The Post Office in Schen. has a score of willing applicants; who will get it. no can guess. We have Jno. W. Veeder, "long John" J. B. Graham, "Pet" Dorsh, John Vedder, G. T. Hanford Benedict, harness-maker, Dav. Lyon, Jona. Sedgwick, "Hane" Beals, Dr. Lacy, dentist &c&c. 
Thursday March 14, 1861. Fae. meeting this P. M. in Treas. office -.nothing of importance done. Examinations to be on 26, 27, 28, of Mar. 
Tonight a meeting of the Republicans was held to designate a candidate for Post Master in this city. They resolved to hold an election tomorrow by ballot from 10 to 5. It is said that the meeting was called by Beals friends and to further his interests. This has made a stir among the other candidates. 
Friday March 15, 1861. J. B. G[raham], candidate for Post Master, offers me tonight $500 for Graduates Hall if by the influence of Un. Coll. he can get this office. Altha' a capable young man, I cannot enter into a political contest of this kind. 
]no. W. Veeder, "long Jno.," started last night with his papers for Washington to forestal[l] all applicants for the Post Office. Very likely he will get it. 
Saturday March 16, 1861. One of the most difficult points in College discipline and government is to bring each officer up to his duty. Rules and resolutions will not do it: some out of laziness, some out of disinclination fail of meeting their appointed tasks; they shirk responsibility and are content to do their duty by halves. A single "bolt" -i.e. missing a recitation, is worse for good order than almost any event in College. It sets a spirit of mischeif and insubordi.
nation into the young untamed spirits and make[s] more. Some Professors never give "bolts"; others, have an excuse for granting them by the dozen.  them urgent contrary to law,  for  
Sunday March 17, 1861.  At home with wife all day.  

Monday March 18, 1861. We hear that Dr. Nott has been sick again, in Phila. His disease is pronounced to be of the head, occasioned by gastric derangement. No one is allowed to see him. Mrs. N. says his physician pronounces him better, and that they hope to start for home about the first of April. 
Tuesday March 19, 1861. The weather is more like winter than spring. Dr. Hickok directs the following examiners for next week: Rev. Dr. Van Vechten of Albany, Rev. David Tully of Ballstown, Rev. B. Hawley of North White Creek, Rev. Dr. Goodale of Amsterdam. A part or all of these gentlemen will probably attend. 

Wednesday March 20, 1861. E. P. Van Winkle of last class, now studying Engineering, has made a very creditable collection of college songs, small but pretty select. This is the first of the kind ever published here. I think we may say that U. C. is not much given to poetry and song; the pieces of a local character are quite few. Among so many young men, one would expect more and better than we find. 
Thursday March 21, 1861. Our Prof of Chem., Chandler, is said to be about to take a wife, Miss Anna Craig, dau[ghter] of Jas. R. Craig of this city. The marriage comes off about the middle of April. 
Friday March 22, 1861. We awoke this morning to witness a furious 
N. E. snow storm; it never snowed faster and by noon we had 8 in. and before night, a foot. Better winter now than in April. 
Saturday March 23, 1861. Thirteen in. snow this morning, and much drifted in the country. Sleighs are running again. Rumor says that Dr. Nott has another attack of paralysis: I do not know what truth there is in it, probably none. He is so aged that an ordinary attack is serious and to be dreaded. 
Sunday March 24, 1861. At Bapt. Ch. in forenoon and heard Mr. Day. 
Monday March 25, 1861. Another letter from Mrs. Nott. She says Dr. 
N. is better and that they will leave for home about Ap. 1. Much snow yet, some sleighs, but the fine warm sun will soon bring spring. Robins today. 
Tuesday March 26, 1861. Rain, wind south, snow going fast. Exami.nations of Freshmen and Sophomores. Examiners Rev. Dr. Van Vechten, Rev. B. Hawley, Rev. David Tully. 
Last night a few of the boys of College started upon a "lark." With false keys they opened No. 16, Prof. Fosters Rec. Room, and removed all his seats. This appeared to be all the mischeif done. 
Dr. Van Vechten dined with me --a kind, good old man, but of no great force of character. Edward Magoun, my nephew, left this P. M. for home. 

J.B. Graham is candidate for Post Master and relies much upon the Faculty of College for an influence that will help him to this office. He has got several of the Professors to write letters to -prominent men at Washington for him. 
Wednesday March 27, 1861. Great rain to day, streets all afloat. Examinations closed this evening. All day in office. News from Dr. Nott that he has been again sick, but is recovering and hopes to come home next week. 
Thursday March 28, 1861. Fine day. Had a long talk with Dr. Hickok on College matters, among them: 1. A Professor of Rhetoric, a much needed teacher in College. His mind is settled upon Mr. Nelson Millard, who has heretofore been Tutor in College, but he does not feel confident of the cooperation of the rest of the faculty in this selection. Mr. N. M[illard] has been abroad a couple of years and is soon expected home. 2. About a rumor long rife in town that Prof. Stanton of Union School is to be urged as a professor in College to teach languages. This he thinks is a favorite project of Dr. B[ackus] and is looked upon as a sort of hit at Prof. N[ewman], who is not much liked by some. 
Friday March 29, 1861. Talked with Prof. G[illespie] about a new Professor. He says the idea is to get Stanton in to teach in Lewis' place or as an assistant to him in Greek, and not in Newman's place. This of course in effect gives us two Prof. of Greek at 3000 Doll's. or, in other words, Lewis after a ten yrs. service has a sinecure instead of a service alloted to him. Stanton coming from Un. School, his place must be supplied there, and we still have the crying necessity of a Prof. of Rhetoric. G[illespie] does not like Millard because he thinks him not sufficiently elegant as a writer. 
Saturday March 30, 1861. Fine day but windy. Saw a letter from Mrs. Nott saying that Dr. N. is comfortable but not out of danger. It is the general beliefe here that he is very sick abd will never return alive. So Henry Anable writes. 
Sunday March 31, 1861. Beautiful day. At home all day. Judge Paige called in evening and wanted me to go to N. Y. with him tomorrow 
P.M. 
Agreed to do so. 

U. 
C. And N. Y. Monday April 1, 1861. Today it is determined that I shall go to N. Y. 



with Judge Paige, who goes on business for Long Island R. R. Company. The object of this business is to try to arrange the entangled affairs between the Hunter Point Land Company, of which Un. Coll. is Trustee, and the three companies who have interests at H[unter] Point, viz. the 34th Ferry Company, Long Island R. R. Co. and the N .Y. and Flushing R. R. Co. This complication is of long standing and has been very detrimental to the prosperity of the Land Co. 
I started at 2:00 P.M. and spent a couple of hours in Albany for the purpose of presenting the yearly Report of Un. Coll. to the Legislature. I left the paper with Prendergast, Member from Chatauqua Co., who being a grad. of U.C. was previously known to me. 
At 4 o'clock P. M. it began to snow from the s. e. and so continued to do until long after our arrival in N. Y. At East Albany I met Judge Paige, wife, and two dau[ghters] Clara and Harriet, with whom I rode. The last was my seat-fellow, an agreeable young lady, tho' a little romantic; fond of metaphysics, not very practical, if I may believe her own story. 
At Poughkeepsie Dr. Thos. C. Reed of Geneva, formerly Prof. in 
U. C., came on board and rode with us to N. Y. 
Arrived in N. Y. an hour after the usual time; the streets covered with sleet and slush, and everything dreary enough. Stopped at St. Nicholas Hotel. 
Hunter Point and N. Y. Tuesday April 2, 1861. I spent the whole day at H. Point in conversation with Crane and Anable about matters relating to the general business of the Land Company. We discussed the interests of the 3 companies and tried to settle' upon a basis of arrangement of all difficulties. Among other things I talked with Crane about the future superintendence of the land affairs in case he leaves on the 1st of May, as it is his intention to do. He says there is no need of a super.intendent aside from Anable so long as there is no grading to be done; that A[nabel] as bookkeeper and treasurer, with a boy, can manage all the business perfectly. Such a plan as this will save to the company 10 or 12 hundred dolls. per an. 
Ely, who has a large interest in the Company, feels it his right to step into Mr. Cranes place and salary: The objection to this is that Ely knows little or nothing about the business and, if he did, cannot find time to attend to it. Four days in the week he might be there a few hours. This will not do, because Anable must occasionally be away from the office and his place must be filled [by] someone else. I know that Crane and Anable do not think well of Ely's coming there, and I think their reasons are well taken. 

New York City Wednesday April 3, 1861. The weather tho' cool is clear and fine. By agreement there met at the St. Nicholas this morning at 10' o'clock: Messrs. S. H. Smith and Brown and Jno. E. Parsons, their attorney-in.law of the N. Y. & Flushing R. R. and Messrs. Crane, Ely, Judge Paige and myself, to talk over the proposed arrangement for an exchange of property. The N. Y. & Flushing R.R. Co. have a depot now at Hunter Point on Newtown Creek, which they desire to exchange with the Land Company for two half blocks on East River near the Ferry. The terms of this exchange was the subject of discussion. 1. The Land Co. Representatives held that the Flushing Company must come to the same terms lately made by them (the Land Co.) with Litchfield, who lately sold the Flushing R. R. to the present proprietors. That is, to give the Land Co. their old dock and track back to Jacks Creek, and put them in the way of getting a title to a strip 39 ft. wide from Jacks Creek westward to where their road meets the Long Island R. R., lying along then. side of their (Flushing) Road, which strip the Land Co. has contracted to sell the Long Is. Co. but which they do not need. Also to straighten their track at the bend where it meets the Long Is.land Road, by carrying it farther south. and to deliver to the Land Co. 23000 yds of earth at 12 cts. in accordance with an (old) contract with the old Flushing R. R. These were our terms, to which they agreed, except that they declined to return the earth to straighten their track at their own expense and to promise to fulfil Litchfields verbal promise to return [to] u~ the 39 ft. on the no. side of their road. 
After discussing these matters till 12 o'clock, we parted agreeing to meet tomorrow at 9 o'clock at Hunter Point. 
The representatives of H. Point, viz. Crane, Ely, Judge P. and self then adjourned to the Bank of New York to meet the representatives of the Ferry Company, the Messrs. Withers, father and son. Their proposition was that we should give them a warrantee deed for the property, promised them on account of their establishing a ferry at H[unter]Point, but also to deed to them absolutely and without condition the right of dockage at the foot of West Second St. Their right there is now conditioned upon their never omitting to run a ferry boat there for 6 mos. Their principal argument was that the principal proprietors, viz. Crane, Ely, and Judson, had consented thereto and that they had also exceeded their contract in not only establishing a ferry to 34th St. N. Y. but also another downtown to James [Peck] Slip. We objected that the College 
/f97 

as Trustee for the proprietors could give away nothing, for if they did they might be called upon hereafter to account for such gift. In answer it was said that the establishment of the downtown Ferry was a very valuable consideration for the H[unter] Point property and fully equivalent to the proposed surrender. It was finally agreed to give the required deed. 
We all afterwards passed over to the office of Forrest & Week, No. 58 Wall St. Forrest is attorney for Long Island R. R. Co. We wished to learn on what terms the Long Island R. R. Co. would release the strip of 39 feet. Mr. F. said the company did not need it and only held it as a security for the payment of money due them by Litchfield, to whom the L. I. R.R. Co. had contracted to convey it. 
Here we find the matter again badly complicated. This strip, which the Land Co. desire to get back, is more valuable to them than to anybody else, but here it is so tied up that no one can get it. The Land Co. is bound to deed it to Long Is. R.R. Co., who do not need it; the Long Island R. R. Co. is bound to convey it to Litchfield and Litchfield has pledged it to the Long Is. R.R. Co. for the payment of a debt. Both the Long Is. R.R. Co. and Litchfield therefore must release it jointly or we cannot get it. Forrest says the L. I. R. R. Co. is almost sure of get[ting] their pay out of the other securities of Litchfield and if they do we may have the strip so far as they are concerned; this however only points us to the probable party with whom we must deal, viz. Litchfield. This closed the days proceedings. 
Hunter Point N. Y. Thursday April 4, 1861. At. 9 o'clock met Crane and Ely, and Smith and Bowne of N. Y. and Flushing R. R. Co. to talk over the same matters discussed yesterday. We made no progress and parted simply agreeing that Smith and Bowne should see Litchfield and strive [to] get his terms for the 39 feet of ground, provided he can give a clear title to it. 
Judge Paige and young Mr. Withers came over at 1 o'clock and drove over the grounds. I spent the whole day talking with Crane and Anable about land matters and viewing the grounds. Mr. Crane present[ed] an old account of certain articles purchased by him some years ago for the Land Company and requested that it might be allowed and compounded half yearly. I agreed to the account with simple in[erest] or that the items should be inserted in his acct. in their proper place and the usual bal[ance] struck half-yearly with interest on both sides as had been customary. 

New York City Friday April 5, 1861. Today, having closed so far as it could be done the company business. 1. First 0] called a few minutes upon Hosfords, wife's cousin 57 and 59 William St. 2. Called at Manhattan Bank, got U. Coll. dividend for February--$56.91. 3. Called upon A. Dickinson 5 Wall St., twice before he could be found, to enquire about the Pat. Fagan lot. He says Mr. Leger, who now owns it, has contracted to sell it to one French, who is fitting up the houses, and desires me to hold on a few days till Mr. French gets his deed, when he will see him about paying a part of the prin[cipal] of U. Coll's mortgage and giving insurance security. 4. Went twice to Jno. E. Parsons' office, 64 Wall St., to see Smith, Pres. of N. Y. and Flushing R. 
R. Co. but did not find him. 5. Called in to look at old English &c. books now selling by Reeves, Fulton St. Bought none. 6. Bought 8 vols Demo. Rev. at C. Blanchards, Nassau St., for U. Coll. 7. Ordered thro' Scribner & Co. Donaldsons Varrorianus for Prof. Newman, also a work on Forrestry. 
Judge Paige went up yesterday. 
N.Y. and Un. Coll. Saturday April 6, 1861. Messrs. Smith and Bowne of N. Y. & Flush.ing R .R. Co. called this morning to talk over matters before referred to. They say that Litchfield wants money very much and that his title can be had to the 39 ft. for 750 or 1000 Doll's [at] most they think. I advised them to get L's best terms and that I would if possible be down next week and see them again. 
Left N. Y. at 11 o'clock and reached home at 7 o'clock. Found all well 
Sunday April 7, 1861. Fine day. At home with wife. 
Monday April 8, 1861. The weather is daily getting warmer. The old Proudfit House, 2nd below me, is now completely transmogrified. College sold it to Andr. McMullen last year for 2500 D's. The front, which was perfectly plain with only a low verandah in front, has had a pediment roof and two dor[mer] windows added, .besides a bed room back --thus 
old House [DRAWING HERE] 
Altered House [DRAWING HERE] 
Tuesday April 9, 1861. Beautiful day. Elipht. N. Potter has just re.
turned from Phila. where he went to visit his grandfa[ther], Dr. Nott. He gives a discouraging account of his state. His mind is quite gone, a mere wreck; indeed he did not fully know who E. N. P. was,. He could recall none of the faculty of College except Dr. Hickok and has lost besides his eyesight so that he can not distinguish the features of his friends. Poor old man! it is sad to see such decay of a once fine mind! 
Wednesday April 10, 1861. This has been a great day for the upper crust of Schen. The occasion was the marriage of Professor Chandler to Anna Craig, dau[ghter] of Jas. R. Craig. The ceremony was performed in the Epis. Ch. which was crowded with people, and afterwards the reception was had in old Mrs. Archd. Craig's House, she being grandmo[ther] of the bride. A day or two since, we called on the old lady, when she showed us a fine purse containing 1000 D's. in gold which she intends as a present to the bride 
Old Mr. Lyman died today, father-in-law of Prof. Foster, aged 83 yrs., 47 dys. 
Thursday April 11, 1861. Beautiful day. Attended old Mr. Lymans funeral at 3 o'clock P. M. from his house, 13 State St. 
Friday April 12, 1861. Fine day. Wind so. with prospect of rain. All day in Library looking over College Reviews and magazines with reference to getting them bound. No news from Dr. Nott. 
Saturday April 13, 1861. Rain and wind from south. In Library arranging unbound periodicals for binding. Had a call from Mrs. Judge Paige who is collecting old Schenectady newspapers. Thro' Young & Graham Booksellers she has advertised in the city papers 
[for] old papers and has been fortunate enough to make a large collection, which to the future historian of the City will be of great value. She is an uncommon woman in many respects. Whatever she undertakes, she carries thro' with great energy. She always has some hobby; sometimes it [is] old coins, sometimes Botany, now old newspapers. 
Judge Paige sent for me at 2.30. 1 P. M. Found he required two new deeds to be drawn for the 34th St. Ferry N. Y. --took his instructions and made the papers. The word today from Dr. Nott is that yesterday he took a short ride. 
Sad news from the Sou th! The war has commenced by the bombardment of Fort Sumter. Where this will end, only God knows, who sits above the disturbed atmosphere of our little planet. 
1qoo 
Sunday April 14, 1861. Signs of snow. Attended Bapt. Ch. and 
heard Rev. H. G. Day. 
U. Coll. and N. York Monday April 15, 1861. Rain tonight. According to arrangement, started with Judge Paige at 2.50 P. M. for N. Y. for the purpose of attempting a final settlement of the Hunter Point matters with the three companies --the Long Is. R.R. Co., Flushing R.R. Co. and East River Ferry Co. At Albany we took the Hudson River R. R. at 4 o'clock and arrived in N. Y. at 9 1/2 o'clock. From Po'keepsie down we had rain. In company with Judge P. was his dau[ghter], who got off at West Point. In the same coach I met Mr. Geo. R. Warren and wife of Troy --a very sociable and agreeable couple. Mrs. W. is sister to Howard Nott's wife. Mr. B. [W.?] is a famous angler and gave me an interesting acct. of his fishing for salmon in a small river on the Coast of Laborador some years since. Stopped at St. Nicholas Hotel, occupying room No. 44. 
New York Tuesday April 16, 1861. Rain all day. At 10 o'clock A. M., by appointment, Messrs. Crane and Ely called at St. Nicholas to talk over the matters at issue betw. H[unter] Point proprietors and the Companies, and 11 o'clock we rode down to Wall Street and made our first call at the office of H. G. Deforrest (No. 58), attorney for the Long Is. R. R. Co. Here we met Mr. Morris, the President of the Company. After talking for a long time we made but little progress, and adjourned to the office of Jno. E. Parsons, 64 Wall, attorney for the N .Y. and Flushing R. R. Comp. --our success was about the same as with the other Co. and we finally [parted?] 
The main difficulty was a strip of land 3 9 feet wide lying betw. Jack's Creek and the junction of the two railroads. This was claimed by the Long Is. R.R. Co. and, rightly, by them it was assigned to E. B. Litchfield, by him reassigned as security for a debt to said company; it was also claimed by H[unter] Point Land Co. as a part of the consideration from the N. Y. and Flushing R. R. Co. for an exchange of land. Here we had a pretty snarl to unravel. Finally, to clear the whole case, two propositions were made: one by Mr. Ely that we ( the Land Co.) should buy this strip from the L. I. R. R. Co. for $1500 but that we should deed the blocks to said Co. for Rail Road purposes only ( this was partly assented to); and a second by myself that we should call the strip worth $1500 and that each of the three comp. concerned should pay or allow 500$ ea. towards the Land Company 

holding it. Thus, the Land Co. and N. Y. and Flushing R. R. Co. could á each give the Long Is. R.R. Co. $500 or $1000 in all. To this the latter Co. assented provided they should be allowed to run a locomotive on their track down the north side of W. First Street, to which Crane and Ely demurrred, but finally partly assented. Thus we parted, to meet 
again to morrow. 
On return to St. Nicholas Hotel found Edw. P. Magoun's card. He 
is attending a convention of the Delta Phi Society at that hotel. 
Wednesday April 17, 1861. At 10 o'clock went down to Deforrests office again with Mr. Ely, and after a long talk my proposition of yesterday was considered the basis of a settlement. We also called on Mr. Parsons at 84 Wall St. where we found Mr. Smith, Pres. of the 
N. Y. and Flushing R.R. Co. and young Mr. S. R. Bowne, and after a conversation with them settled matters with them, and left with the understanding that Mr. P[aige] is to draw up a contract for the fulfilment of our agreement. 
4 o'clock P. M. went over to H. Point with Mess. Smith and Bowne, to see Mr. Crane and talk about the settlement. Mr. C. was absent, but found Mr. Anable, the bookkeeper, who approved of the arrangement and promised to come over tomorrow to settle upon the descriptions of the property sold to Long Is. R. R. Co. 
This evening saw Ed. P. Magoun at Metrop. Hotel. 
Thurs.day April 18, 1861. At eleven o'clock, according to adjourn.ment, met Anable at Deforrests office and arranged about the boundaries and descriptions of the property to be deeded to the Long 
I. R. R. Co. Tried to find Parsons and Smith of the Flushing Road but could not find them. Lunch at Berry's in Broad street. 
Anable went off to Cortland St. to meet Mrs. and Dr. Nott, who 
were expected from Philadelphia on their way home. I called on A. 
Dickinson, 5 Wall. St., to see about the payment of P. Fagan's 
mortgage. He referred me to C. L. Monell, 54 Wall, who said a Mr. 
French had bought the property and was ready take up the bond and 
mortgage. 
Called at Hollingsworth's, 55 Walker St., a dealer in old books 
and periodicals; did not find him in. 
This morning at 9 o'clock, the 6th Massachusetts Reg[iment] on its way to Washington passed down Broadway and several companies came into St. Nicholas to get breakfast. In all my life I have never seen so much excitement as now prevails in N. Y. in regard to the rebellion at the South. Since Sumter fell, the whole population seems to be fired by only one feeling --to march to the 
190V 
seat of government and uphold order and law. All parties are fused 
into one --a Union Party; perfect unanimity prevails. This is the 
most encouraging feature in this dreadful business. 
N.Y. and Un. Coll. Friday April 19, 1961. At 9 1/2 I went down to 55 Walker St. to see Mr. Hollingsworth about periodicals and bought Hunts Merch. Mag., Whig Rev., Southern Rev.,and Miners Magazine, made arrangement to get a supply of other Rev. and Mag. He sells cheap, picking up his stock at book auctions and out of the way places. 
11 o'clock started for home by Hudson R. R. Road and arrived at 6 o'clock. Here again at home the dreadful notes of war resound; the fife and drum is hourly heard and recruiting goes on briskly. The regiment which I saw in N. Y. yesterday morning was attacked in the streets of Baltimore and two of the men killed, so soon does the awful carnage commence. 
Saturday April 20, 1861. Snow all about, but fast disappearing. Saw Dr. Nott last evening. Poor old man! he is but a mere wreck of his former self. He hardly knew me, or where he was. His mind is all confused and unmanageable. 
Tonight a public meeting was held this evening to express the views of the citizens [on] the subject of the war. It was harmonious and unanimous to support the government with men and money. 
Sunday April 21, 1861. Fine day. At home with wife. 
Monday April 22, 1861. Beautiful day. The din of war, and the exciting reports from the South, are all that we now hear. To all appearance the clash of arms will soon be wafted from the plains of Maryland or Virginia. God prosper the right! How strange that both sides appeal to Him for support in their cause. Both cannot be right, one must be wrong! I say again may He prosper the righteous cause and open the eyes of those who are wrong. 
Tuesday April 23, 1861. Very warm day; tonight for the first time we hear frogs croaking. á All day the fife and drum are heard in our streets and this afternoon the first company, commanded by Capt. Wm. H. Seward Gridley, departed for Albany. The excitement is terrible; nothing like it has happened since the foundation of the Government; nothing has so united the people in the free states as this unwarranted attack upon the General Government. To a man the North are determined that this government shall not die without a 
1á903 
desperate struggle. Baltimore is in the hands of a mob and the Union men are paralysed; here then the first conflict is likely to begin unless the rebels retreat in time to save their necks. 
Mrs. Nott is anxious to get her house ready speedily so that Dr. 
N. can remove to it out of the noise and bustle of College. Called upon Mrs. Paige with wife this evening. Jno. B. Gough lectures this even.ing at 2nd Dutch Ch., on London. 
Wednesday April 24, 1861. Fine day with showers in the afternoon. 
8. o'clock A.M. Went to Albany to get the prices of glass for Dr. Netts house. Called at McClures. Called also at Allan Gilmours to see about the plumbing for the same. The furor in Albany for volunteering is unprecedented. I am told that there several thousand already drilling at the Barracks preparatory to marching. 
Thursday April 25, 1861. Fine day. This dreadful war excitement is effecting all kinds of men and business. We expect College will not be in any respect exempt. Our numbers will diminish, and study will be too lame an employment for our youths. What is it all for? Who has commenced this war? Where will it end? Slavery of the black man; the greed of the slaveholder; anarchy and ruin. 
Friday April 26, 1861. Beautiful day. Today our session nominally begins, but few have come. This evening at 5 o'clock we held our first faculty meeting. Doctor N. is too feeble to be present. I saw him lying upon his lounge tonight quite feeble, but still apparently comfortable and without pain. 
Jno. Nott tells me he is going to Fonda tomorrow to board a few weeks; near that place he has a small church to whom he preached on the Sabbath once, at Auriesville. 
Saturday April 27, 1861. Students come in slowly: doubtless the troubles of the country are the occasion. We anticipate a permanent falling off in numbers and disinclination to study in those present. Today old Mr. Bensen died in his 92nd year, said to be the oldest person in the city. Yesterday "Johnny Edwards" died of consumption. His death is much lamented by a large circle of friends by whom he was held in high esteem as an honest and good man. 
Sunday April 28, 1861. Rain this afternoon and evening. At home with wife. 
Monday April 29, 1861. Fine clear, cool day. Dr. Nott sent for me 

yesterday P.M. to talk about the "Course of Studies" in College. He fears greatly to be left out as superannuated and useless. He desires still to have his place left open for him as of old that he may take part in the affairs of College when he is able. I told him the Order of Studies was the same as last year and, if able, there was a place for 
-him to lecture. This seemed to satisfy him for the time. 
He said he could occasionally lecture perhaps, but Mrs. Nott told him it was impossible for him to do so, that he would die in the attempt, and that his physician in Phila. as well as Bp. Potter positively forbade his undertaking any mental labor whatever for the present. "Moreover," she said, "how can you lecture when you can neither see, nor remember any thing five minutes together?" It is quite obvious to any one that the Doctor's work is done, that it would be the height of folly for him now to try any work whatever. 
Met a small class in Botany at 2 P.M. 
Tues.day April 30, 1861. Rain in afternoon from the west. Last day of the quarter; making ready to pay salaries tomorrow. Another call from Dr. Nott to know if there was a place left for him to lecture when he desired it. The poor old man has the will left to do as he has always done, but alas! the ability is altogether wanting. 
This evening the students held a meeting to determine the question of forming a military company. 
Wednesday May 1, 1861. Cold wind [from] the west. Pay day for College officers. 
Thursday May 2, 1861. Last night it froze water to the thickness of half an inch. Wind cold and clear from then. w. Students held ano.ther military meeting this evening at 5 o'clock. They say about 100 will form a company for drilling. 
Friday May 3, 1861. Cold, raw and windy. College is more thinly attended than usual, and we fear the war will for some time affect our numbers and disposition to study. 
Saturday May 4, 1861. Cold. Mr. Magoun telegraphs that he will be here tonight, at 12 o'clock. 
Sunday May 5, 1861. Mr. Magoun cqme last night at 12 o'clock. At home all day, laid up with rheumatism in right thigh. 
Monday May 6, 1861. In Library 9 to 10 o'clock. Rheumatism bad, 

sore, painful. 
Saw Judge Paige. He goes to N. Y. tonight to attend B[isho]p. Onderdonks funeral and to bring home Mrs. Paige. He will also see the parties who represent the N. Y. and Flushing R. R. to arrange some unsettled points in our late contract. 
Obtained order to borrow $1000 to pay off Coll. mortgage held by W. A. Hoag, $2070. Borrowed the money at Schen. Bank. 
Tuesday May 7, 1861. Weather cool and rainy. In Library from 9 to 
10. The College Military numbers above 80 students and are drilled by Prof. Peissner every night. Thirty five yrs. since, there was a company in College commanded by Prof. Jackson. The guns, 48 in no., are still owned by College and are to be used again for drill: condem.ned muskets with flint locks. 
Wednesday May 8, 1861. Clear and cool. The war fever suffers no abatement. Three co[mpanie]s. have gone from Schen. and more are drilling. 
[Gap from May 8, 1861 to June 5, 1861.] 
[Wednesday] June 5, 1861. Fine moderate day. On May 23 Laura Hosford, wife of F. J. Hosford, cousin of my wife, died in Brooklyn. On May 25 died James Rogers, commonly called "Uncle Jimmy." He first came to Union College in 1813, having been taken prisoner at Fort George, Canada by the U.S. forces there. Most of the time since he has been employed about Coll. as a servant of all work and latterly as niail carrier for the students. 
Today Mother and Father Harvey left for Clifton Springs where she proposes to spend most of the summer with their dau[ghter] Sarah. 
The Company of Zouaves in College, now numbering 7 S, drill every night and make commendable progress in the military tactics. Prof. Peissner is captain. 
Thursday June 6, 1861. Cloudy. Rain in evening. All hands are pressing Dr Nott's house towards completion; she is anx ious to get into it before Comm't. I have a good Botany Class this session of about 20 from all classes. 
Friday June 7, 1861. Fine clear day. Ashman, my classmate, dined with me today. He is from Wapaca ,Wis., where he is pastor of a Pres. Ch. Ashman is a great, stout, genial fellow full of life and good sense. 

It is hard to get any comfort out of this terrible war which agitates the country; however it may result, nothing but disaster and distress awaits us. Oh! the perversity of human nature! when will wars cease and peace and good will prevail! 
Saturday June 8, 1861. Warm day, a little rain in evening. Prof. Peissner has a little boy, born this morning. He married Prof. Lewis dau[ghter] Maggy. This is his third child, the other two girls --one dead. 
Sunday June 9, 1861. Warm day. At home all day with wife. 
Monday June 10, 1861. The hottest day of the season. All attention is concentrated upon our armies about Washington. Daily, news of a battle is expected, and many hearts are wrung with anxious fears for near friends in our army. Business flags, enterprise and peaceful projects await the future, nothing flourishes but the arts of war and its helpers. When will man cease to slay his brother man and drench the earth in blood! If God be a just and holy being, how does he look upon this said preparation for slaughter and blood! May he bring peace and order out of this confusion and that right speedily! 
Doubtless this nation deserves chastisement: pride, corruption, and forgetfulness of mercies have long been our national sins, and a humiliation like the present may be necessary to bring us back to a sense of our duties to God. 
Tuesday June 11, 1861. Warm; wind south, indications of rain. The military company of College comes out tonight in their new Zouave dress --red caps, red baggy trousers and blue blouses. They drill every evening from 7 till dark. One effect of this exercise is to keep down the spirit of mischeif in College. The young men get so tired that they have no disposition for skylarking, but go to their rooms and to bed. This fact has been noticed not only by the Profs. but also by the students. 
Wednesday June 12, 1861. Fine windy day. Gilbert away to Grand Jury yesterday and today. Considerable excitement on account of a repulse of our troops before a battery at Great Bethel, Va. Probably several were killed on both sides. Here we have a taste of the havoc of war. Oh the cruel necessity of such bloodshed! it seems beyond human effort now to hinder it. Only a good God can change the hearts of both sides and bring peace, which He will do in his good time. 

Thursday June 13, 1861. Cool and strong wind from west. All day 
about usual duties. At noon Henry Hosford,, son of wifes cousin, 
Fred. J., came and left at 7 o'clock for Troy. 
Poor old Dr. Nott! At times he looks miserably infirm and hag.gard. This P. M. I found him in his new house at the College gate so fatigued that he could hardly stand and so nervous as to be quite a distressing object. His moods are quite changeable --sometimes cheerful and much like himself, at other times all but crazy. 
Friday June 14, 1861. Fine comfortable day. Botany I have at 2 o'clock P.M. --a pretty good class. Prof. Gillespie went yesterday to West Point to attend the Annual Exam. for a few days. Tomorrow our 
U. Coll. Zouaves take a trip up the Mohawk for recreation. 
Saturday June 15, 1861. Dr. Nott has just awoke to the fact that the students have a military company. What brought the matter to his attention was their red britches; whilst they drilled in ordinary dress he thought nothing of it. To me he said today, "All my labor for fifty years is destroyed by this military company! You wont get rid of this evil in fifty years! It took me a long time to get rid of the company we had in College formerly &c." All the reasoning which his friends can urge to quiet his mind is of no use. His infirmities are such that now the "grasshopper has become a burden." 
Sunday June 16, 1861. Cool weather. At home with wife all day. 
Monday June 17, 1861. Cool still, clear and comfortable. 9 to 10 in Library. Called this evening upon Mrs. Dalley of Montreal. She is a neice of Mrs. Dr. Nott, Mary Anable, that was of Philadelphia. She married Prof. Dalley of McGee Coll., Montreal, last year and now 1s on her way to Phil. on a visit. 
Tuesday June 18, 1861. Fine cool day. Dr. Nott is still much troubled about our College Military Company, and worries himself almost sick about it. He imagines all manner of evils about it, and thinks if he had had the management of affairs it would never have been allowed. At the same time he forgets that in 1825 he procurred permission of the Trustees by resolution to have military tactics and drill in College and that for about five years such a company as ours was in existence by his permission. 
Dr. Backus called, talked about the prospect of diminished 

numbers in College next session and a falling off of revenues. Prof. Gillespie has returned from West Point today. Prof. Jackson has left for Washington to be gone 2 or 3 weeks; 'tis said on acct. of his son William's leaving for the seat of war with a regiment which he commands as Colonel. 
Wednesday June 19, 1861. Fine comfortable day. News of a battle in Missouri betw. the Union and Secession forces created quite a talk this morning; how it may be we cannot now tell, but from previous reports such an encounter was to be expected. The Border Slave States seem to be destined for the first battle grounds, and sad is their fate whatever may be the result of this contest. 
Thursday June 20, 1861. Fine, cool, clear day. Rain for several hours 
last night before 12. This P. M. spent three hours with H. H. Martin 
Esq of Albany wandering about College Woods examining plants. He 
is Cashier of the City Bank, but in leisure hours pays some attention 
[to] the study of Botany of which he is an enthusiastic lover. 
Doctor Nott continues quite nervous and disturbed, sleeping 
little and worrying much. He complains of pain and heat in the head. 
Tonight the Un. Coll. Zouaves presented a silver cup to Taylor Lewis 
Peissner, now about a fortnight old and adopted him as the "Child of 
the Regiment." Prof. Peissner is the Captain of the Company. 
Friday June 21, 1861. Today C. N. Potter, attorney for Jas. Brown in the case Jas. Brown vs. Un. Coll., R. W. Lowber &c., called upon me and Judge Paige to arrange abt. the payment of an unsettled balance due U. C. on a compromise of the suit on Jan. 2. last. There is a little over 2100 D's. of int[erest] due U. C. but Mr. B[rown] has also a charge of something like 1500$ ag[ains]t Lowber, which amt. as L. is good for nothing, he wishes U. C. to pay. To this charge we object and say ( 1.) Un. Coll. has nothing to do with charges made agt. Lowber or Dr. Nott. (2.) If a portion of this charge was for attorney's fees in the á suit of Lowber agt. the City of N. Y., the matter is none of ours. (3.) Mr. B. should have deducted this amt. from the 15000 D's. which he paid out of the bond and mortgage to L[owber] and his omission not to do so should not now be visited upon us. Judge P. agrees in this decision and so I am to write C. N. P[otter] and ask for the whole 
money without deduction. 
Saturday June 22, 1861. Some rain yesterday. Today clear and cool, wind from west. At invitation of Mrs. Judge Paige I went to the Helderberg today with a small party as cicerone. Our party consisted of Mrs. Paige and her dau[ghter] Caroline, her son Winslow, Henry Keim, stud[ent] in U. C. and myself. We started at 8 o'clock passing thro "Guilderland Centre," "Bang All," and reached the top of "Indian Ladder" at 11 1/2 o'clock. Here we explored the rocks below the "Ladder" until 1 o'clock and then passed over north to the high Table Rock in "Winne's Woods" where we pic[k]nicked until 4 o'clock when we started for home by the way of "Thompsons" Lake where young Paige and Keim fished till 6 1/2 o'clock. Thence we passed on to the old Schoharie Road down thro' Noahsville and so home at 9 1/2 o'clock. A hard days ramble but as pleasant as fine co[mpany] and fine weather could make it. 

Sunday June 23, 1861. Fine cool day. At home with wife. 
Monday June 24, 1861. Cool day, wind from west. I sent off our Catalogue today to Hosford and Co., 57 William St., N. Y. to print. Library open in morning 9 to 10. The buzz about Coll. today is that tomorrow is Dr. Notts birthday and of course a holiday. 
Tuesday June 25, 1861. Fine warm day. Being Dr. Nott's birthday, according to custom there were no recitations in College. Called to see the Doctor and found him a little more quiet than he has been for some days. He commenced talking about the building of the College in 1812, said they commenced building upon a horrible plan made by some one, David Burt perhaps, and had progressed some ways when Remay was called to make the present plan, which cost 1500 Doll's. (very dear at that). The foundations and walls already built had to be adapted to the new plan --hence some of the alterations may be seen to this day. 
at {l0p}., for College, and 1000$ to 50 1860 for myself to buy 14 share of N.Y. Centr. R.R. Stock at 
70. if it can be had. Called upon .].Forbes So. William St. and left 8 Certif. & then to Hosfords 7 William St. Back to St. Nich. to din-ner & wrote to wife. urs. Dec.13 Hunter Point Cold windy day Up at 7, breakf; t -and started from Gramercy Park House -where Mr. El boards -With him started for Hunter Point where I spent he entire day, talking over matters with him Mr. Crane & Ana le. If the present politi-cal troubles do not very much de-pr ciate the value of Real Estate about New York this Point pro erty must be very valuable & come speedily into Market. Ba to St. Nicholas -dined at 6 o'clock & wrote letter home -rea the papers & to bed -Friday Dec.14 Hunter Point -Arose t 20' before 7 -breakfasted wrote a letter home & reache Gramercy Park house at 9 o cl. A.M. Extremely cold & wi dy -with Anable rode to Astoria to acknowledge some apers & back by one o'cl. after which returned to lunch at St. Nich. and down town to Carpenter & Vermilye's office -fo nd they had bought a Bond of N.Y. Cent . 
. R.R. 7% 1876 for 101 No stock yet. 511860 Spent an h r with Hosford 57 William St. -to various book stores for a utch Grammar for Mrs. Judge Paige but found only a small ne -Ahn's -such as she now has. Back to St Nich to dinner 5 t 6 o'cl. A sad place is New ork -the contrasts are shocking -and to one not used to sue extremes -full of sorrow. Such folly, such show, such wealth, uch misery, rags, & poverty, as one finds here! Where can w meet with such opposites! Saturday Dec.ls Home A dreadful cod day. At 11 o cl. I starte from New York to come home, soon after leaving the city sn w appeared & floating ice in the River. A slow tedious train e had & did not reach Albany till 5 1/2 
P.M. -and home at o cl. All well, but dreadfully cold. Sunday Dec. 16 Union Colle e Pretty cold but not so cold as yesterday. At home all day wit wife. Mond. Un. College D c.17 Milder, wind So. .Called upon Judge P ige. He says Finance Comm. meet on 129 
Wednesday June 26, 1861.Warm day. Some rain in afternoon. Howard Potter called in this P.M. --on a visit to his Grand fa[ther] Dr. Nott .. Talked an hour about a recent visit to Wash.ington and Fortress Monroe. 
 
Thursday June 27, 1861. Fine day -not too warm Saw Dr. N. this morning --found him fretting about the death of G. L. Wilson who as executor of John C. Spencer [and] holds certain papers relating to Nott Trust Fund. Tried to quiet his mind about the matter and think I did so. 
Friday June 28, 1861. Fine day. Wm. A. Groves grad. of 1841, from Chicago called today -he has not been in S[chenectady] before for 20 yrs. 
Saturday June 29, 1861. Fine day --getting dry --and a great call for rain. Mr. Jonathan Crane called this P. M. He has long been Agent and Superintendent at Hunter Point of the joint property in which U. C. has an interest, and now proposes to leave because he thinks his services are no longer needed. Mr. 
C. Ely, another owner, expects to take his place at a salary of 1500 Dolls. "But," I said, "if your entire services are not needed at 1500 Dolls., why should we employ Mr. Ely's 3 or 4 days in the week at the same price?" In confidence Mr. C. said that, Ely's son had failed in business, and the father proposes to oust Anable, the present bookkeeper, and Ely, Elder and younger, take the places for a joint salary of 2500 Ds. I said and so did Mr. C[rane] that Anable must on no account be turned adrift, it would neither be right nor for the interest of the proprietors to doso. 
Sunday June 30, 1861. At homeáwith wife. Dry. 
Monday July 1, 1861. Warm and dry -fine shower in the evening. Saw Judge Paige and received Long Island R. R. Deeds to be executed and copied. 
Tuesday July 2, 1861. Very great rain last night and this fore.noon. All day at work upon Deeds for Long Island R. R. Co. &c. Called to enquire about Dr. Nott, found him very nervous and uneasy, worrying about many things and disturbed in mind whenever any new fancy takes him. 
Mrs. Cruger was expected by Mrs. Nott, but she did not appear. At this visit it was expected she would do something to make a finish of her donation of 5000 Ds. for the Presidents House --of which $1500 remains due. She wants to have it made the foundation of scholarships whenever Dr. and Mrs. 
Nott are done with it. 
Wednesday July 3, 1861. Fine moderate day. All day preparing deeds and contracts for Long Is. R. R. Co. and East River Ferry Co., and sent off two packages today by mail to H. 
S. Anable. 
The result of a "hazing" assault upon one Robinson, Freshman, has been that three of the culprits --Stewart and two Holloways --have been sent away. 
Dr. N. sent for me to know what has been done about a church for Commt. --said he did not like the Pres. Ch. and would not choose it if it were offered for that purpose. I told him we couldnt get it and had proposed to get the 1st Dutch --á which satisfied him. 
Thursday July 4, 1861. July 4 Such a Fourth of July this country never saw! Divided and at war! Congress called in Extraordinary Session! Armies marching to the Capital, one to defend, the other to destroy! Where wiU all this end? Will not a merciful Providence in pity hear and answer the prayers of his children to stay this unnatural strife? Walking into town I saw an aged man called "Claushy" Vedder now in his hundredth year. Being the only Revolutionary Soldier of this County now living, he is paraded in a carriage .at the head of the procession formed in honor of the day. 
Friday July 5, 1861. Fourth of July always brings out all the latent mischeif of College. On the night of the 3d the oft.repeated trick of Ringing the College Bell was attempted but with indifferent success. I hear of nothing else. The fact is, must of the exuberance of spirits of our "Bucks" on the Hill has passed off in the Military drill, which is strictly kept up every night for about 2 hours 
Saturday July 6, 1861. From July 1 to Comm't. is the busiest part of the year for me. The Report yearly called for of the Treasurer demands facts and figures to be drawn from a great many and laborious calculations, and to condense and sys.tematise these facts takes many days and nights of close and fa-tiguing toil. 
Sunday July 7, 1861. Attended the Bapt. Church and heard Mr. Day preach --after which the Lords Supper was administered, Mr. Jones a retired Bapt. Minister assisting. 
Monday July 8, 1861. One of the most needed reforms in College is that of order, a feeling of responsibility and interest in all the administrative acts of College, among the officers. They need to be brought up to their work and held there --in a division and order of labor to share equally and consienciously. We have too much shirking --throwing burthens upon others. College will not half do its proper work till more active[attention?] to its duties is manifested by its officers. In many respects our head (L.P.H.) is well fitted for his post --in others he is deficient. I think he lacks the necessary quality of orderly arrangement of matters and an executive talent. 
Tuesday July 9, 1861. Speaking of order and executive talent --no one in our Fae. has these qualities to the same degree Gillespie has. He prides himself on them, boasts of them -and sometimes carries them to excess perhaps. Nevertheless it is better to have an occasional excess than a constant want of them. 
Dr. Nott's house approaches so near completion that she proposes to move in next week. Indeed I hope they will, for the quiet of the new site will be grateful to him. 
Wednesday July 10, 1861. The disturbed state of affairs in the country begins to tell upon business of various kinds, and we look with apprehension to the future. I find among other signs of the times that on Ap. 1 last we had just SO students less than on Ap. 1. 1860. Are we to lose SOmore next year? If so it becomes a question whether we can meet the expenditures of 
our  present  establishment,  for 25 students  answers  to $1500  
income.  
Thursday  July  11, 1861.  Speaking  of College  Income  and  

Expend. I find some of our Trustess already look and talk strongly towards retrenchment. It is not an unlikely thing that our salaries may [be] reduced and some of our younger officers dismissed. 
Friday July 12, 1861. What will the be upshot of this war? -.a question often asked but seldom answered with confidence. One thing: it promises to be venomous and bloody while it lasts and, if prolonged and the fiery passions [are] aroused on both sides, I look for a proclamation of freedom to the slaves by the one side and savage retaliation on the other. Were I an immediate and unconditional and radical abolitionist, I should pray for the success of the Southern arms in the outset, --that the desperate alternative might come of black regiments and black insurrection. 
[Saturday] July 13, 1861. Today Dr. Nott moved into his new House. The poor old man, when the time came, regretted to leave the old nest and fly to a new, but finally gave up and went pretty cheerfully. The New House is as large as a church! and cost just twice what it ought to have cost: but, like all things in the building line directed by an old man and a woman, the end was not for[e]seen from the beginning, and even when proclaimed by others was not believed. Five years ago Dr. N. asked my opinion of the cost and I then said to finish according [to] the revised and more economical plan would cost from 10000 to 12000 doll. It will about reach the former sum by much hard squeezing and pinching. 5000 Ds. was all that a house for two persons ought to have cost. 
Sunday July 14, 1861. Prof. Jackson has been in Washington with his son Col. W. A. Jackson of 18th Reg. some weeks. He has got much interested in sanitary matters for which he is well fitted. He always had a taste for medicine and I think would have made an excellent Physician. I have always noticed that the young men in his "Section" when indisposed attract his prompt attention and if pills are necessary he has them at hand. As a nurse he is excellent --kind and skillful. 
Monday July 15, 1861. That perfect farce --a term examina.ation --commences tomorrow and closes on Wed. night. We all know what we ought to have in this line but it is considered [im]proper to make any change while Dr. N. lives. It might distress him to see his old landmarks [blotted out. 
Tuesday July 16, 1861. I begin to take "copy" to printer for my "Treasurer's Report," with the hope of having it out on Saturday. For a pamphlet of 25 pp. it has cost me great labor. But the most curious fact respecting my Tr. Reports is that Dr. 
N. for more than 5 yrs has been working to prevent their being put upon the book of minutes as of old. There is and can be but one reason --a desire to prevent too much light being had upon the Finances. 
Wednesday July 17, 1861. Un. College Prof Gillespie having, delivered a few lessons upon Military Engineering, has laid out a portion of an entrenched camp and set the U. C. Zouaves throwing it up --just East of N. Coll. near the pine woods. He is a great enthusiast in his profession --a great buyer of books on the subject and a close student. I know of no one among the Faculty whom I more highly respect for industry, faithfulness in teaching, conscientious discharge of duty and willingness to work. 
Thursday July 18, 1861. Our anticipations of Commencement are not encouraging. We look for fewer returning graduates and less animation and bustle among the undergraduates. The war throws a damper over all our joyous gatherings and compels us to retrench and save in view of future taxes and contributions to sustain the government. 
Friday July 19, 1861. A constant load weighs upon my spirits in view of the sad state of our country. As much as I believe the re hellion to be most uncalled for and our Government justly called upon to resist it, not the less do I grieve this dread necessity of calling out young men to war upon those so lately our bretheren. 
Saturday July 20, 1861. My principles lead me to abhor war; and I sometimes doubt the propriety of fighting in any cause. When will man cease to butcher his brother man? With the spread of what is called Christianity, do wars in the like pro.portion diminish? And do we see any good reason to believe that the present style of Christianity will ever cause nations to live in continual brotherhood? Alas, I fear not. We need more [than] the name of religion to purify our motives, to elevate our aspirations, to cause us to deal justly and to love mercy. 
Sunday July 21, 1861. At home with wife all day. 
Monday July 22, 1861. Last evening, the Rev. Doctor Albert F. Chester of Buffalo, de-livered the annual sermon before the Theological Society, in the First Dutch Church. I did not attend --I never attend our Commt. Exercises. Hard work thro' the day and every day for weeks before our anniversaries gives me a distaste for any evening entertainments away from home. 
Tuesday July 23, 1861. Today Rev. E. L. Magoun D.D. and wife from Albany came to my house. He is to deliver an oration this evening before the Literary Societies. He is a jovial, genial, good hearted man, eccentric withal and a little crochetty. I knew him in New Hampton N. H. 35 years ago when he first left the trowel and took to the book, preparatory to preaching. He is a man of considerable talent, good taste in painting and architecture, and of popular talents as a preacher. He has been settled in Richmond Va., in Cincinnati 0., in New York City and lastly in Albany --where he now preaches. 
Wednesday July 25, 1861. Doctor Magoun left this morning. Alumni met today in larger numbers than were expected. The usual collation was omitted on account of the anticipated small number, and to save the expense. Un. Coll. suffers beyond measure in the want of interest felt by her graduates in her welfare. This has been induced for SOyrs. by the management of Dr. Nott who has studiously discountenanced all demonstrations at Commencement time, by making as little show as possible and hurrying off the students on every possible pretext. The consequence has been that we have nothing to call our graduates back and they get to look upon Alma Mater as a grum old Mother-in-law. 
Thursday July 25, 1861. A fine cool day --and Commence.ment is over: 77 graduated A.B. and 9 [ditto] in Civil Engineer.ing. The usual batch of D. D.'s was ground out. The "boys" have got the "sheepskin" and are off into the world to try their talents upon another stage. It is a great relief to have the pressure of this business relieved and rest in prospect ahead. 
Friday July 26, 1861. Now another perplexity is in store for me --how to raise money for salaries Aug. 1. Our treasury is completely dry, and to borrow is the only resourse. How & where is the question. 
Mrs. Jona. Crane was here yesterday and talked me almost crazy. Today Mrs. Cruger of N. York came -a still greater talker. She and her bros. have paid $3,500 towards Dr. Nott's new house and have promised $1500, but how to get this remainder is the rub. The money has been spent upon the House and is due to contractors, but of all rich people Mrs. C[ruger] is one of the slowest to pay, they say. 
Saturday July 27, 1861. Mrs. Cruger at Mrs. Craig's. I called to talk about the subscription business. She talked 2 hours a steady stream and when I came away I did not know whether I was in the body or out. All she could be got to say was that she would pay the-money in her own time and way. Her con.versation wandered all over creation --and among other subjects she brought in some of Ben. and Joel Notts beautiful financial transactions, which she seemed to think as well of as most other people. 
Sunday July 28, 1861. At home with wife. 
Monday July 29, Fine day. Twice to Judge Paiges office to see about raising money --away from town. Called upon Dr. Nott whom I found sick of lumbago. Poor old man, he is a sad shadow of what he once was, and what is most singular his two sons Ben. and Joel never come near him. I think they have not been to see him for more than two years in sickness or in health altho' living so near. They say it is all owing to his having lost all his property so that nothing remains for them -.when he had money they were on good visiting terms with him. John and Howard come occasionally. The financial tricks of all these men are enough to condemn them to infamy all their days. 
The Trustees at their last meeting have made various attempts at what they call economy, but with the usual success of making great dissatisfaction among the Faculty and in truth spending more than they save. Men who know nothing of Coll. and come together but once a year should consult those who know the affairs of College. But like Sir Jno. Russell, some of them would undertake command a fleet at an hours notice, so confident are they of their abilities to do so. It has been my anxiety as Treas. to have matters so arranged as to make income meet expenditure the coming lean year --but I doubt whether it can be done with the additional load to carry. 
Tuesday July 30, 1861. Another troublesome matter to me is now brought up. Dr. Nott contracted with the mason Brignall and carpenter G. I. Van Vranken to finish his new house. They have fulfilled their contracts, but there is still $800 due the latter for which Dr. N. has no funds. He had based his calculations upon the promise of Mrs. Douglas Cruger to give $1500 more towards the House, but as her promises sometimes linger in the fulfilment the Dr. finds himself embarrassed. 
It is expected that I shall worry thro' this matter somehow altho' as Treasurer I have burthens enough already. 
Wednesday July 31, 1861. For the first time in ten years I am obliged to borrow largely to pay salaries. So far as College is concerned, this arises from the fact that I have been obliged to pay off a mortgage of $2000 and to invest nearly $2000 more in the Preferred Certificates bought of Mr. Chas. Ely. This $4000 came out of the current income and of course left little for salaries. 
Today I went to Troy to see if the Farmers Bank, in which 
U. C. owns about 6000 Ds. of stock, would lend $2000 and received a favorable answer. Back at 1 o'clock and called upon Mohawk to find how much I could borrow there for Nott Tr. Fund which is always behind hand, and received promise of $1000. To Schenectady Bk. to see what could be done there, and got answer that they would renew my note of $1000 and no more. This latter Bank is winding up, preparatory to reorganising uder the Gen. Banking law and are therefore calling in their funds and purchasing stocks 
Thursday August 1, 1861. To Albany and Troy to get the money promised by Farmer's Bank, with son John; day intensely hot. Got the money, dined at Troy House --badly kept, and crossed the river to West Troy to visit the Arsenal but could not gain admittance in absence of the Commandant, Major Thornton. Home at 6 o'clock. 
Friday August 2, 1861. á Paid off Professors today. One of the peculiarly odd pieces of economy which our Trustees origin.ated at their last meeting was the voting three houses to professors, viz North Hall to Foster, Colonnade House to Chandler and Remur House to Peissner, and making certain duties as an offset for the rent. Thus every Prof. has a house ( but two) furnished by College, viz. Gillespie and myself. 
There never was a more foolish policy than this. The rent of these houses is worth $500, and the services to be rendered therefor will be worth perhaps 500 cents. The next move will be to give the two remaining Prof. houses, thus burthening the 
finances most unnecessarily. 
Saturday August 3, 1861. Another piece of folly in the above action of the Trustees appears in the fact that the North Hall and the Remur House cannot be fitted up for Prof. Houses with a less expence than $1000 to $1300. Where is this to be obtained? Our prospects are at best gloomy in prospect of this war, and to increase expenditures so recklessly now is any.thing but wisdom. 
Sunday August 4, 1861. At Baptist Church this forenoon. Rev. Mr. Day preached, and the Communion of the Lord's Supper was admintstered. 
St. Nich. Hotel, New York Monday August 5, 1861. An intensely hot day. I left for New York at 1.40 P. M. to visit Hunter Point and inspect matters there. On the Rail Road coach met Levi H. Willard, my old clerk in the Treas. Office, and rode [with him] all the way to New York. The dust, cinders and heat were very annoying. At Hudson it was my intention to remain a few hours to see Magoun but at the station Edwd. told me he was in New York. 
Hunter Point Tuesday August 6, 1861. Another oppressively hot day. All day talked and figured and planned with Crane and Anable -.till 6 o'clock when I went back to St. Nich. Hotel to bake and roast alive. The all-important business I have in hand is to settle our matters with Long Island R. R. Co., exchange deeds, &c. and get about $4000 of back interest. 
Wednesday August 7, 1861. This H. Pt. has been called by someone "Long Island City" and so the Post Office is called -.such fantastic names are no credit to those who make them; the old name in this case is the better, and should be retained 
Talk, talk, talk; Ely having been added to the quartette. Our men Crane and Ely are a pair of the greatest talkers in New York, and enough to craze a weak man. The former especially, C[rane], has mistook his calling and should have been a preacher and exhorter. He is intelligent, fluent, pious and honest. 
Thursday August 8, 1861. Cooler. Last night I vomited half the night, and today am sick enough to be in bed. Eat nothing but two crackers. A sad place is New York: its wealth[y] and show remind one of the the substratum of poverty and wretchedness that lie beneath the gilded surface of things. 
Friday August 9, 1861. Day by day we have been trying to make progress towards a settlement with the Long Island R. R. Co. and tonight we hope to close the business tomorrow. 
This H. Pt. ten years since had but one house; now, here is quite a village with Depots for two R. Roads and two steam ferries. Several large factories are established, and others doubtless will be ere long. While N. Y. property has fallen one half within 6 mos. the Point property, before low, has fallen no lower and there is some call for lots. 
N. Y. Hunter Pt. and Un. Coll. Saturday August 10, 1861. Warm day. Anable, our clerk &c., Morris, Pres. of Long Is. R.R. Co. and self at 10 1/2 A. M. went over to N. Y. to the Company's attorney in Wall St., Deforrest, for the purpose of closing up our matters and after talking till 1 o'clock the business was called settled and we went back to I-L Pt to get the Treasurer of the Road to draw a check to pay the interest due. Arrived there and lo! he had just departed for Norwich, locking up the safe, funds, seal and all. Hence the papers are to be retained till Monday when he returns. 
Started for home at 5.30 P. M. and arrived there at 12. M. On my way up met in the R. R. Coach Judge Ira Harris and conversed with him about College matters, and about things at Washington. He thil;iks the war will be a long one; that Bulls Run reverse has done good in the country; that Gen. Patterson is generally thot' to have been treacherous; that many of our officers are incompetent and must be pushed off; that Gen. McDowell is a very competent Commander and so is McClellan; that the last battle was fought by the Press and was urged on by men who know nothing about the war or the enemy &c&c&c. 
Sunday August 11, 1861. At home with wife all day. 
[Monday] August 12, 1861. Cool. Signs of rain. Slating "Colonnade House" today. Called with Dr. Hickok upon Judge Paige to talk over finances of College. Dr. H. wants a prof. of 
Rhetoric --Nelson Millard --and is desirous to show that the 
finances will allow of it . I do not desire to commit myself any 
farther than to say that I will try to save enough to pay his 
salary of, say, $1000. 
Called upon Mrs. and Dr. Nott. He is feeble but still enquires about business matters and especially about Hunter Point matters, which, he has somehow got it into his head , are in confusion and disorder. Tried to quiet him. 
Rode out to P. Rily Toll's in Glenville with [wife] to make a call. Measles in the family. If weather permits, propose to take wife and boys tomorrow to the Helderberg. [ 
Tuesday August 13, 1861. Rain last night and all day. Wind 
N.E. All day in office writing. Dr. H. says Judge Paige and Dr. Backus have assented [to] the appointment of a Tutor and Prof. of Rhetoric (Millard), the latter on a salary of $1000 or under. 
Wednesday August 14, 1861. Clear and cool --wind west. All day in office. Called upon Prof. Stanton and w[ife] who, since they were burned out in the late fire, have taken board at Mr Crounse's opposite to our house: He lost property to the value of say $500 -insurance run out a few weeks. 
Called upon Prof Dewey at Prof Jackson's: they are bro's.in-law --the former, Prof. at Rochester Univ.; did not find them in. 
Called at Mr. and Mrs. McPherson's --also upon Mrs. Robt .Cunningham's --also upon Mrs. Fr. Fisk, and home. Tomorrow we hope to ride to the Helderberg Mts. 14 ms. So. West --wife self and the boys. 
Thursday August 15, 1861. Beautiful clear day At 8 o'clock started for the Helderberg, with wife, John, and Willie, passing by Guilderland Church, Knowersville, and so up the hill to John Keenholts' where we left our team and walked thro' the woods about a mile and a half to "Prospect Rock." From this point we had a beautiful view of the country north and east spread out like a carpet at our feet. Schen. and Albany were seen at the distance of 14 or 15 ms. and with a spy glass the flag poles could be seen. After a lunch upon the Rock and a stay of a couple of hours, we went back to Keenholts and started for home at 3 o'clock, arriving at 6. 
Friday August 16, 1861. Beautiful day. At 8 1/2 we started again for Lansingburgh, passing down the Troy road to Van Vranken's tavern 10 ms., out then to the left to Cohoes; crossed the river Mohawk into Waterford and thence over the Hudson to Lansingburgh, where we stopped 3 hours calling upon Mrs. James Clark, an old school mate of wifes; thence thro' Troy, across the Hudson and home at 6 1/2 o'clock by way of the Troy and Schen. road. 
Saturday August 17, 1861. Fair day. At 8 1/2 o'clock started again with wife and the boys for Rilys' on Saratoga Lake -.crossing the Mohawk at the Aqueduct and so on by the east side of Ballston Lake, "East line Malta" and to Rily's at 12 o'clock. Here we staid three hours and had dinner and a fish upon the beautiful lake. At 3 o'clock started for home by the way of Ballston Spa, arriving at 6 1/2 o'clock. In all these jaunts I have observed that the crops of hay and grain are excellent, corn also looks well and cannot fail of yeilding a good crop unless injured by early frosts. 
Miss Anna Maria Anable, Mrs. Nott's neice, came today, so also Bp. Potter. á 
Sunday August 18, 1861. At home all day with wife. 
Monday August 19, 1861. Fair. day. Mr. Gilbert, my clerk, started this morning for the northern woods above Booneville on a fishing excursion with his friend le. Clute. Bp. and Mrs. Potter at Dr. Notts. Also Miss Anable, and two of Bp's sons. 
Tuesday August 20, 1861. Mr. Gilbert being away in the northern woods, I have to spend most of the day in the Treas. Office. The feeling on the war question is that we have a long and difficult task before us. Many theories are started, many prophecies are hazarded, but little comfort comes from them all. 
My opinion is that Seperation or Emancipation must result from this war. I can not see how we can ever live again with the slaveholders chain around our necks, neither do I see how they with their extreme views of the holy nature of slavery can live with us. 
Wednesday Augustg 21, 1861. That peace can come now is impossible, the passions of both sides will not allow it. The North burns to wipe out its reverses, the South to gain other 

5 .... 
and greater successes. We move slowly, they rapidly; we have been half in earnest and forbearing, they terribly resolute and stopping at no half-measures. Consequently they must for a time at least gain advantages which will encourage them and depress us. 
Thursday August 22, 1861. Neither army is in a good condi.tion: three or four hundred thousand raw recruits called suddenly together do not constitute an army in the proper sense of the term, and if any great action again takes, it will be decided again as at Bull Run by accident or panic. 
Friday August 23, 1861. Our newspaper[s] press have done great injury to the government cause by hurrying on our army and publishing news which are immediately sent to the rebels; we have also made ourselves silly by bellowing so much against English papers and government for their want of sympathy for our situation. 
This is all unmanly; we should not expect too much from other nations who are under a different government and who have for years been troubled by our example of free government. Neutrality is all we can demand, sympathy would be agreeable, but is not to be expected in any great degree. 
Saturday Augustd 24, 1861. Our system of raising soldiers by volunteering and recruiting, I believe also to be wrong. We ought from the first to have adopted the draft --serving all parts of the country alike. By this process we should have had a much better class of me_n. Now we get men cheifly from the great cities and often the ruff scuff who go for a spree or for the pay alone. The Press gang and draft have both been put in operation at the South from the beginning and as a consequence they have raised an army rapidly Indeed it is 
áquite likely with their less population they have now more men in the field than the North, altho' not so well fed and clothed and cared for. 
Sunday August 25, 1861. At home with wife. 
Monday August 26, 1861. Mr. Nelson Millard, once a tutor in 
U. C. and for two yrs. past in Germany, having just returned has been asked to take a professorship of Rhetoric in U. Coll. He tells me, however, that he doubts if he will accept, because he desires to preach. Dr. Hickok has been very urgent to have him come at least for one year; what his final answer will be I do not know. W. C. Macy of class 1860 comes back as a tutor in Latin and Greek. 
Tuesday August 27, 1861. Prof. Jackson went to Fire Island last evening and this morning his son, Col. Wm. A., returned from his regiment at Washington on a short furlough. Dr. Hickok goes to Conn. tomorrow. 
Dr. Nott still holds on pretty well altho' his mind is greatly shattered and his brain sensitive. 
Wednesday August 28, 1861. S. W. Bates, attorney-at-law, Boston, spent half the day with me. He holds some 41 Certif. of Trust of Jona. Crane and called to have some of them transfered to other names. 
In almost [all] the engagements between the Governt. forces and the Rebels, this fact is noticeable. The rebels never risk a battle unless they have the advantage as to numbers or position. Unless these are in their favor they retreat and run. On the other hand, our forces have always been obliged to fight two to one and sometimes 4 to 1, and after a well fought battle retreat to prevent being out-flanked by numbers. Thus no decided advantage is gained. At Bull run the rebels took about 1000 prisoners, which they hold, besides guns abandoned. In Western Va. áwe took as many prisoners but released them on parole. 
Thursdy August 29, 1861. Showers this P. M. We at the North have been tormented with spies and traitors who have sent constant messages to the rebels of all our proceedings. The Governt. is now taking them in hand and not a minute too soon. Even Women have been constantly employed at Washington, Baltimore, and other places to convey information; we hear now that they are also under the eye of the police and that several have been taken in hand. 
Saw old "Mrs. Governor Yates" today at Depot. She is now over 90 yrs. of age and is quite smart for her age. She travels alone and transacts business as she did 20 yrs. since. Her maiden name was Delancy. 
Friday August 30, 1861. Dr. Hickok returned from Conn. Mr. Gilbert returned from the North woods at noon, well browned and muskitoe bitten. 
Called upon Dr. Nott --asked him how he was. "Ask Urania" (his wife), says he. "I dont know anything; she will tell you.". 
Paid several bills, among others that of James W. Cunningham & Bros. who have been in the hardware trade for some years and now retired. 
Prof. Chandler and wife are now house-keeping in the Colonnade House back of So. College, lately occupied by Dr. Nott. Wife and I propose to go to Hudson tomorrow for a call upon Magoun. 
Hudson and U. Coll. Saturday August 31, 1861. Started with wife at 8 o'clock for Hudson where we arrived at 10 1/2 and called upon Magoun. He has lived in his own house since the death of Mary Ann in May '60, a young couple --Chas. Macy and wife --keeping house for him. Mrs. Macy is grand dau. of Mr. Gifford. Magoun tells me his is to take another wife this fall, a Mrs. White, widow of the late Dr. White of Hudson and New York. She was a Miss Huntington --a lady of accomplishments 45 yrs. of age, and a suitable companion, I hope, for him. At 3 1/2 P. M. we started back and arrived at home at 6 o'clock. 
Sunday September 1, 1861. Attended Ch. at Bapt. Ch. Mr. Day preached and administered the Lord's Supper. 
Monday September 2, 1861. In office all day. The news of taking the Hatteras inlet forts off N. Carolina by our fleet, and the capture of 700 men, is all the talk today. It gives the Union men some encouragement that the tide may turn in our favor, and that we shall not be obliged always to stand on the defensive with the rebellion. Prof Peissner goes to N. Y. tonight. 
Tuesday September 3, 1861. All day in office writing. How sensitive public opinion is to all the acts and accidents of this war may be seen by the effects produced by so small an affair as the taking of a weak sand fort at Hatteras inlet and a few hundred men and officers. Stocks immediately rise in Wall St., recruiting is greatly enlivened, men congratulate each other with the heartiness which we expect when they acheive a happy piece of good fortune; Commodore Stringham brings home his ragged captives to N. Y. with the eclat of a conqueror; and Gen. Butler hastens to Washington to bear the news of his own victory and then darts of to N. E. and everywhere hears his name mentioned with praises and shouts of applause. 
Wednesday September 4, 1861. All well,m I suppose: Yet it does seem more consistant with good policy to follow up this blow with others of a like character, and not wait to shout over a fortunate success. While we are making merry over this, the rebels are probably strengthening themselves on those points where we might now easily do them the greatest harm. 
Many inlets on the southern coast must be closed or held before we can thoroughly blockade their ports, and never shall we so easily do this as now. We are not a warlike people, ours have been arts of peace: our neighbors have been so weak, that [we] deemed it unnecessary to keep a great standing army, and now when suddenly called upon to lay aside the arts of peace and take arms to sustain the Government, it is not to [be] thought strange if we handle them awkardly and do not at once show the coolness of Veterans. 
ThursdaySeptember 5, 1861. Straggling youths just from the plough begin to appear on College Hill to pass the dreaded examination to be held the next three days. This beginning of a new year has been looked forward to with considerable apprehension by the friends of College, because it has certainly been supposed that a large diminution of students would be experienced. As the war stops almost all kinds of business, it has been reasonably thought that Colleges would in like manner in numbers and resources. 
Friday September 6, 1861. This first day of the session has opened auspiciously: we have received more than on the first day of last year. If the same good luck continues, we may congratulate Alma Mater for her constant success. It is hardly to be hoped for, however. 
This evening our usual Fae. meeting was held for ordering the course of studies &c. Dr Nott did not appear; he is too infirm to do any thing; Dr. Hickok presided. 
Saturday September 7, 1861. So far we are ahead of last year in new recruits: a gratifying fact that suprises all the friends of College. The number has come up to over 60. During the past year our numbers have been much diminished by the falling off of students after they had matriculated, rather than by diminished entrances. All slave state young men have now left us, with half a dozen excepting. 
Sunday September 8, 1861. At home all day with wife. Clear 
and cool, the indications of fall. 
Monday September 9, 1861. Cool enough for fires. Met my 
usual Conic Section Class, in two divisions; the Junion Class. 
Called upon Dr. Nott: found the poor old man stretched upon his 
sofa, looking quite infirm, his eyes dim, and face thin and pale. 
He said as usual he did not know anything, not even how he 
was; said he wanted to talk with me sometime and hoped the 
College was getting on prosperously. When I said we had more 
new students than last year, he said that was because folks had 
nothing for them to do at home and so they sent them off to 
College! 
Met Dr.(Bp.) Alonzo Potter at Dr. N's., also Mrs. Potter -.an invalid sick with consumption and near her end. Also Mrs. Edwd. Potter, dau[ghter]-in-law of the Bp. and dau[ghter] of Mr. R. M. Blatchford of N.Y., who was also there with his new wife, the dau[ghter] of Alex. Hamilton jr. of N.Y. 
' The new en trances still keep ahead of last year. One peculiarity is observed, that they are more largely in the Fresh. and Soph. classes than usual and are better prepared for College. 
One annoyance we have to submit to, and an injurious one it proves: most of our students so dislike our rooms in College that they earnestly plead to get rooms in town in private families. It takes the utmost and positive prohibition of the Vice President to bring in enough to make one say our Colleges are occupied. 
Tuesday September 10, 1861. I call every day or two upon Dr. 
N. and find him ever the same, complaining that he knows nothing, that his mind is gone, and that he remembers only a few old facts which still cling to him. Poor old man! he is a mere wreck of what he once was. 
Wednesday September 11, 1861. Bp. Potter of Phil. has been here a few days with Mrs. Potter, now in declining health. She is not expected to live out the winter, yet with her wonderful energy and determination not to die she may survive a few days longer. The Bp. says she is better when riding in the open air,á hence he has brought her all the way from Phila. in a carriage and expects to go back in the same way. Dr. N's house has been a complete tavern for the summer with the coming and going of friends and connections. 
Edwd. Potter, the Bp's. son, is now here busy drawing plans for the new 1st Dutch Ch. and it is said he will be the chosen architect. 
Thursday September 12, 1861. The entrances to College this fall still continue to be a little ahead of last year --an unlooked for result, and gratifying to our friends. 
All things considered one would think that U. C. would be more largely patronised. Its situation is unrivaled, its funds are respectable; its age is approaching the venerable; its graduates are numbered by the thousand: -what more is needed? A more thoro' scholarship, closer examinations, higher tone of discipline and morals, and two or three more professors --of Rhetoric in particular. 
Friday September 13, 1861. With the most urgent persuation to keep students in College, they still get up all sorts of excuses to room out. Some because our buildings are dirty and unsuitable for residence, some because they do not desire to furnish their rooms, and others (tho' [they] do not say so) because they desire more uncontrolled liberty. I have little faith in College discipline in or out of College buildings; in my estimation it would take a large amount of moral influence to counterbalance the evils of a crowded residence in our barracks. 
Saturday September 14, 1861. Magoun came tonight to make us a visit. He is lame of a bunion on his foot. He announces that his wedding with Mrs. White is set down for 23 Oct. next. I do not know that he could have made a more suitable match, I think all his friends will commend it as quite proper. 
Sundday September 15, 1861. At home all day with wife. 
Monday September 16, 1861. Magoun left this morning. My Recitations from 10 to 11 o'clock are Conics -1st and 2nd Divis. of the Junior Class. Mond. and Tues. mornings 8 1/2 to 9 1/2 I open the Library for students. The rest of the day I am engaged in Treasury Office. 
Tuesday September 17, 1861. Rev. R. T.Searle, my classmate, now settled at New Marlboro' Berk. Co. Mass .. came tonight on his way to Cleaveland 0. to attend the Meeting of the Am. Bd. of Comm[issioners] for For[eign] Miss[ions]. "Dick" has altered but little in appearance: I think he is on the whole a pretty good kind of man altho' in College we disliked him as being a flunky. 
Wednesday September 18, 1861. Mr. Searle spent the day in town calling upon several acquaintances visiting Union School and the recitations in College 
Thursday September 19, 1861. The public are settling down into the opinion that we are to have a long and tough war with the rebels, and business is somewhat reviving. The shock given to all enterprise by the breaking out of a Civil War is passing away and men have made up their minds to accomodate themselves to the present state of affairs. 
The most discouraging circumstance that has occurred is the attempt of a part of the Democratic party of this state to throw cold water upon the measures of the administration to crush the rebellion, and treat traitors and traitor presses as the exigencies of the times demand. It is supposed, however, that the Union ticket nominated by a mixed convention will sweep the state and forever put to silence the carping of half-way Union men. 
Friday September 20, 1861. Mr. Searle left this morning for Saratoga Springs; thence he goes West. Matters in College go on harmoniously and Acting Pres. Hickok takes hold of his work in earnest. 
Saturday September 21, 1861. Tonight had an adjourned meeting but adjourned to Mond. evening because a portion of the faculty was absent. Rain. Sunday September 22,1861. Cool enough for fire --but no frost hereabouts as yet sufficient to injure corn or other vegetables. At home with wife. 
Monday September 23, 1861. U. Coll. Fine temperate weather. Fae. Meeting tonight at which all the officers were present. Acting Pres. Hickok gave an exposition of his views of what we ought to do in various matters of discipline --in Rec. Room, in the students Halls, Chapel &c. In general terms he wants us to gird up and be more vigilant. All good advise and quite needful, for after many years service under a head who has grown too relax[ed] in discipline, it is proper now that we should come up to a high stand. 
Mr. Jona. Crane called and had one of his interminable "confabs", on religion, temperance, slavery, politics and the war. He is a good talker but mixes up things wonderfully. A hard man to do business with, for he will preach in spite of everything and everybody. 
Tuesday September 24, 1861. Fine day. We have been trying for some days to get a meeting of the Finance Committee to do up a little necesary business, and tonight Judge Paige announces that Comptroller Denniston will come up tomorrow morning for the purpose. 
Prof. C. A. Joy and wife are in town, staying at Prof. Chandler's. 
Dr. Hickok had a talk with our two janitors of N. and S. Colleges --Rody Martin and Hugh Magrale --about their duties in and about the buildings. The purpose of the advice was, that they must use all diligence, have the Halls and rooms kept in neat order. 
Wednesday September 25, 1861. Tomorrow being the National Fast Day, we shall have no exercises in College. At the request of Dr. Backus I have made a comparative estimate of students in College Sept. 25, 1860 and 1861, and find them as follows: 
298 in 1860, and 241 in 1861 --a loss of 57. I also find that receipts from Students have fallen off about $1,100. On the whole, therefore, we may safely calculate our loss of income from this source for the year at $3000. 
Thursday September 26, 1861. Un. College National Fast. All stores and other places of business are closed, and the service is held in the several churches. At home with wife all day. 
Friday September 27, 1861. Rain all day and tonight. Warm -.wind from S.W. No frost yet this year. Great hopes are excited that buckwheat and corn will be ripened without damage from frost. 
An adjourned meeting of Fin. Comm. was to have been held this P. M. but, owing to Dr. Backus' absence, was post.poned to Monday next. It is a question which agitates our College authorities and Fae. How to "make both ends meet" this year. Where to curtail? There is much grumbling that Dr. N., who can do nothing, holds on not only to his salary [of] $2000 but also upon the fees which yeild more than a thousand more, besides his house rent, servants, garden pasturage &c. besides paying nothing upon his bond of $10000 Ds. 
Jno. Nott too, a do-nothing, is sucking away another 500 Ds.; both together, Dr. N. and Jno. N., draw more than 4000 from College, about a third of College salaries. 
Saturday September 28, 1861. The constant calls, wants, and fault-findings of one another about College are sufficient to give the Treasurer the heart ache. I regret a thousand times that I ever had any thing to do with the office. It has brought me into contact with the selfish side of many a man whom I desire to respect and lowered my opinion of him: it has made [me] a mere factotum of College, destrqyed my taste for study or at least the oportunity for it, and frittered away my years among musty account books. "But all this must be done by some one and you are happily constituted for it." That may be, yet it makes me none more in love with the vocation. 
Sunday September 29, 1861. Coolish, yet no frost yet. The whole of Sept passes and Oct. comes in without a single frost that would miss the most delicate plant. Corn and other late ripening plants are now safe and a fair crop we shall have. At home with wife. 
Mondday September 30, 1861. Dull, cloudy and not very cold. We have had no fires yet in our recitation rooms. This afternoon spent two hours from 2 to 3 o'clock with Judge Paige and Doctor Backus of our Finance Comm. talking over Colleges matters but, as there was not a quorum, nothing could be done. Among the topics discussed were: 
1. Prof Peissner's attending the political convention at Syracuse, which did not meet the approbation of neither Judge 
P. nor Dr. B. and Judge P. requested me to say so to Prof. P. 
2. About the extra rooms which the Professors in College have taken from the students. It was decided that Prof. Jackson shall have one and that those having more than the office room pertaining to their section, shall receive none of the 25 Dolls. in repairs on their houses. 
3. 
About cutting trees on College grounds. Prof. Jackson and myself are to make an examination and report to the Comm 

4. 
Hoags lot No. 18, Union St. (on College Map). Dr. Backus is to look at this and report. 

5. 
Prof. Gillespie's call for a new room. I am to talk with Dr. Hickok and Newman about it. 


Tuesday October 1, 1861. We have seldom had a more beautiful fall. The frost has kept off thus far, and all late crops are now beyond its power, whenever it comes. The first Dutch Church are still discussing the plans for a new House of worship, and as I am told are likely to adopt that of Edwd. T. Potter. 
The Second Dutch Church, after two years litigation with the Congregational Church, have finally obtained possession their house of worship, and Dr. VanSantvord, my classmate, is now occupying the pulpit. 
Wednesday October 2, 1861. We have now a general war along the whole border Slave States --the head being opposite Washington and the tail away off west in Missouri and Kansas. Kentucky, the last to be brought in, is now fairly embarked in it andwill soon be devast[at]ed by contending factions. Sad is the condition of these states. Instead of respecting state sov[e]reignty, so much lauded by the rebels, they invade without scruple those states who elect to remain neutral or who desire to cleave to the Union. May God favor the righteous cause whichever it be! Our interests are in his hands and He alone sees the end from the beginning. 
Thursday October 3, 1861. Prof. Jackson and I, by the request of the Finance Comm., Mess. Paige and Backus, spent this P.M. in ex-amining the plantations of trees about the Colleges and some distance behind. We found the trees in a wretched condition every way. In the first place, , 
1. They are bad as to kinds. Instead of choosing our na.tive forrest trees of known thrift and beauty, the miserable "three-thorn locust" was introduced together with "butternut" and black walnut, and the grounds were poisoned by them. They were planted everywhere and, after an experiment of 30 or 40 years, the former had to be removed in a great many places and others planted 
á 2. They were planted in wrong positions. Streets a 
hundred feet wide were laid out E. and W. and N. and S. thro' 
the grounds as tho' for a great city, and planted with these 
trees! Some were planted in vast circlesand clumps perfectly 
meaningless and offensive to the eye. 
3. They have been suffered to grow so thick that vast n um hers are now dying, others are tall and spindling and,, before another 20 yrs. passes away, will have to be removed and others substituted. 
Why all this loss of time and labor? Because Dr. Nott willed it so. Because one, altho' he be [an] autocrat, does not know everything and should not assume to direct all manner of works as tho' he did. Even now, nothing can convince him that a tree should be tou[t]ched, altho every man of sense sees that our grounds will soon be treeless if the present system is persevered in. 
Friday October 4, 1861. I wrote yesterday of Dr. N's perfect reliance upon his own judgement in the matter of landscape gardening. The same remark is equally true of everything else. He would undertake to build a Cathedral tomorrow if the[re] was need of one on College Hill, although he has no more architectural taste than a Hottentot. He told me himself that he com-menced building the Colleges on the Hill after plans of his own and that, if he had kept on, the whole structures would á have been ruined. He stopped only when he could go no farther and then put the matter into Remay's hands who had but little better taste than himself. There never was but one Dr. 
N. and never will be a second. 
Saturday October 5, 1861. This afternoon went down to the Mohawk to fish with the boys and had the usual "luck" -caught nothing. The afternoon was beautiful --this I enjoyed. Rain last night and this morning till 10 o'clock. 
Sunday October 6, 1861. At Bapt. Church. Rev. Mr. Day preached and administered the Sac. of the Lords supper. 
Monday October 7, 1861. Cloudy, some rain. Mild, no frost. 8 1/2 to 9 1/2 in Library, 10 to 12 at Recitations of Conics. 
Tuesday October 8, 1861. N. E. Storm all night and part of the day. The pressure for money in various ways for College ob.ligations gives me great annoyance. Whilst our income is diminishing, our outgoes seem to increase, and many unusual demands are made. There seems to be no way to meet them but by borrowing or by calling in loans. 
Wednesday October 9, 1861. Today paid to Danl. Van Guysling $600 on account of the Van Guysling purchase made, in 184 7, by Un. College. These unusual payments are embarrassing College finances much just at this time, when our income is becoming less by reason of the disorder of the business matters of the country. 
Thursday October 10, 1861. Yesterday and today I have been busied in dunning students for term bills --a drudgery that must be done by some one, tho' unpleasant work. A party of students were out last night till long after midnight cutting up pranks --carry[ing] off front gates, serranading Professors with uncooth music &c. 
Friday October 11, 1861. Rain last night all day. Father Harvey came down from Syracuse today. Called upon Dr. Backus to talk over College matters --to arrange for borrowing money or calling investments to meet Nov. salaries. 
Saturday October 12, 1861. Nothing new --"no news is good news." Fa[ther] Harvey left for N. Y. this A. M. In war matters, both sides are preparing for the attack or defense, neither wishing to hazard the result of a great battle. How long the two great armies will sit near Washington, looking grim at each other, no one can foresee. October will hardly go out without some great movement pregnant with the fate of thousands. God favor the right. 
SundayOctober 13, 1861. Cool cloudy day. At home all day with wife. 
Monday October 14, 1861. Fine, clear, moderate day. In the afternoon Drs. Backus and Hickok and Judge Paige walked around the grounds with me to observe the state of our trees and to advise as to the thinning of them. Their conclusion was that the trees should be removed by the direction of Prof. Jackson and myself, who are authorized to mark such as are in the way of the others and the men are to cut them. 
Tuesday October 15, 1861. Cool, and fine weather but .with.out frost. The necessities of College make it necessary to call in investments or borrow money. Made arrangements at Mo.hawks to borrow 1500 Dolls. to pay taxes on the Lowber lots in 
N.Y. on which Coll. holds a mortgage. Father Harvey came tonight from N. Y. 
Wednesday October 16, 1861. Wind south, and prospect of rain. C. F. Hoag, chairman of Building Comm. of 1st Dutch Ch. and self went over College ground to find a quarry of stones for the foundation. 
Thursday  october  17, 1861.  Mild and cloudy  -. south  wind  
but  no  rain.  Fa[ther]Harvey  went  home  to  Syracuse  this  
morning.  

The beautiful autumn foliage is now in the height of its glory. This season settles the question as to the effect of the frost upon the fall of the leaf. Altha no frost has yet appeared, the change and fall of the leaf appears to be none the [less] effective. This fact Botanists have long known, but most persons have attributed all to the effect of cold. 
Friday October 18, 1861. Rain last night and this morning. At 
1 o'clock P. M. started for New York for the purpose of paying taxes in the Lowber lots. Three o'clock left Albany and arrived in N. Y. at St. Nicholas Hotel at 8 o'clock. For the season the weather is remarkably warm; it is a common remark that the temperature is more like that of July than Oct. Never did the foliage of the North River hills and banks look more gorgeous; it is worth a journey to N. Y. at this season to see it. 
New York Saturday October 19, 1861. Warm --heavy showers in the afternoon, with thunder and lightning. All the forenoon making arrangements at the Comptrollers office to pay the arrears of taxes on 38 lots and parts of lots betw. 16th and 17th streets, Avenue C and Stuyvesant Sts. Finally got the bills made out, interest calculated, and all paid at 12 M. Saw F. 
J. Hosford a few minutes, he appeared well. I never saw New York look so dull in the business streets at now. The half of its busy crowd seemed wanting, and those 
left moved more slowly and leisurely. Such are the effects of 
this dreadful war. 
In the P.M. visited Hunter Pt. and saw Mr. Anable and 
Mr. Crane. Things look pretty well here considering the times . . At 5 1/2 started by Hudson River R.R. for home, where arrived at 11 1/2 o'clock PM. Had for a car acquaintance Mr. James Bouck, son of the late Mrs. Wright, w[idow] of Judge W. of 
Schenectady. He is now a clerk in a Commission House in N. Y. 
deal-ing largely in grain, flour, whiskey &c. 
Sunday October 20, 1861. Fine day. At home with wife. 
Monday October 21, 1861. The first frost this season appeared 
on the grass this morning. This P. M. Dr. Hickok gave the 
College a half holiday on the occasion of the departure of the 
Ellsworth Regiment from Albany to the seat of the war. Many 
students and some of the Fae. went down. 
This evening at 4 1/2 P.M. our regular monthly Fae. 
Meeting was held, several matters were talked over and agreed 
to without a formal vote. 
Sarah Harvey wife's half sister came down this evening 
from Syracuse to make a short visit. 
Tuesday October 22, 1861. The war news continues to ex cite great interest in the community altho' no great action has taken place or is immediately threatening. Both parties claim the advantage in many skirmishes and minor actions, but no great advantage has been gained of late by either side. One thing only can be said of the armies --that both are becoming drilled and fitted for war: soldiers cannot be made in a day or month; six months at least are needed of active service to bring men up to such a state of discipline that they can be depended upon in an emergency. 
Wednesday October 23, 1861. A great Naval expedition, now preparing to sail, is exciting much talk and high expectation. We learn that it is made up of a large fleet laden with abundant stores and many men, but no one of course can tell where the blow will strike. Charleston, Mobile and New Orleans are mentioned as likely to receive a visit, and great things are expected of this attack. I am not, however, of a hopeful dis.position in regard to this war: even tho' we might conquer the rebels in every engagement, I cannot see how we are to hold such an immense territory, spar[s]ely inhabited, if the inhabitants are determined to resist. We cannot hope to con.quer the South and put down this rebellion save by a dreadful war of extermination, and that by the aid of the slaves, freed and fighting for us. Is it proper to resort to this last and bloody experiment? 
Thursday October 24, 1861. Would Heaven and just men ap.prove of such a resort to savage warfare? I look upon this war in its results as only a contest for boundaries and terms of peace. As men are constituted, peace cannot come yet. Both parties are not enough bruised and battered to make them craveápeace and a return to sober reason. The North thinks, justly without doubt, that this Rebellion being without just cause must be put down; and having come off ingloriously at Bull Run, nothing will heal our wounded pride b[ut] a corres.ponding advantage and a crowning victory over the Rebels. Fortune may turn in our favor, we may fight a great battle and come off conquerors, but even then I do not look for peace. Indeed it has seemed for years that we are two peoples, and that Slavery has nurtured a domineering race with whom no one can live in peace and self-respect. We must seperate and I see no insuperable obstacle in the way but the Mississippi River. How can two peoples hold that great thoro'fare with[out] collisions? War must constantly threaten and disturb the quiet of those states that lie upon its banks. 
Friday October 25, 1861. I am too much of a Quaker to feel any gratification in the news, which from time to time comes from our armies, of the slaughter of men and the maiming of others --even the killing of our enemies is no pleasure to me; success to us is death to them. Altha', if this sad contest must continue, I cannot but wish success to our own arms. I distrust everything which others so much cry up. The secret union feeling at the South I do not rely upon, tho' doubtless there is much of it, and there would be more if success crowned our arms; as with us so with them, strong public opinion carries along with it thousands who have no opinion of their own and only float with the multitude. But suppose we conquer Virginia, it will take an army to keep them under; if we take Charleston, it will take an-other to hold So. Car. and so on round to New Orleans and up to St Louis . To hold Maryland, tho' a majority is loyal, will take 20,000 men. Baltimore requires at least 10,000 men and forts and forti[fi]cations. Shall we do the same with the 9 or 10 other rebellious states? It would take 500,000 men to hold imperfectly these rebels if they are determined not to succumb. I see but one practicable way of warring with them: to blockade their ports and hold on indefinitely, or to raise a black re hellion and carry fire and sword to every rebel home, which is a warfare too savage to be thought of. 
Saturday October 26, 1861. There really seems but little hope for our nation in the future. We are two and bitterly so. The man who owns one negro is an aristocrat and a rebel, he hates the Yankees, his conscience troubles him and makes him proud, vindictive, and savage. The North and South, with Slavery seperating them, cannot live together, neither can they live apart. Under one Government there is rebellion; under two, there will be constant jealousies and causes for renewed outbreaks. Nothing but the removal of the source of all our troubles --slavery --gradually or suddenly, can bring peace. Our future is dark and portentous of gloom. 
Sunday October 27, 1861. At home all day with wife. 
Monday October 28, 1861. Fine day. Dr. Nott sent for me to see his stove, which he fears is out of order, and does not know what is the matter. He seems quite fidgetty today. Saw Judge Paige on the subject of borrowing money for the salaries on the 1st. of Nov. and on other matters. 
Tuesday October 29, 1861. My greatest trouble now is to raise money for Nov. salaries. College is quite run ashore for money, and we have nothing to look to but loans to meet current expenses. The close of this year will show a large balance on the wrong side, I fear. The falling off of students will affect our receipts $3000 or more. 
Wednesday October 30, 1861. To raise some money, I am to borrow $2500 of Farmers Bank, Troy, and sell a $1000 Bond of 
N. Y. Centr R.R. --7%. The Nott Fund is all afloat in debt, 2000 Dolls. and not more than 500 or 600 Dolls. for the coming Nov. sals., amounting to near 1500 Dolls. 
Thursday October 31, 1861. This P. M. I went to Troy to arrange for a loan at the Farmer's Bank. Am to get 2500 Dolls. on a note of seventy-five days. 
Troy looks dull and business very slack. This terrible war is working the ruin of business and derangement [ot] all trade and commercial operations. 
Friday November 1, 1861. Sent Mr. Gilbert to Troy for the proceeds of the 2500 Doll. note and paid it out this afternoon so far as it would go. I still need much more, but how to get it do not know. 
Saturday November 2, 1861. The public expectation is now much excited about the great Naval expedition which has sailed from Fortress Monroe this week. If the weather should prove favorable, an important blow may be struck at some point on the Southern Coast. Yet, of all things, a naval expedition with transports crowded and often unseaworthy is the most uncer.tain, especially as no harbor can be approached. Even in a calm, it is hazardous to land upon a beach; how much more uncer.tain with high winds and heavy seas. 
Sunday November 3, 1861. Rain last night and this morning. Is this a storm that will reach our great southern fleet; if so, Heaven preserve them from a sad doom. Attended Bapt. Ch. and the Communion of the Lord's supper. 
Monday November 4, 1861. Some rain. The news from the sea.board is that a tremendous storm raged on Sat. night all along the coast from Boston to Fortress Monroe. Such a tide has not been known for years, so they say. 
No news from the fleet; but some already suspect disaster, tho' others say the storm was this side of it. We shall soon know the worst --and if another reverse is to be met, I hope the nation will have the fortitude to endure it with pluck and Christian resignation. 
Tuesday November 5, 1861. Having now been in the harness without a vacation for 3 years and 3 mos., I begin to long for a respite from labor and care. In 1858 I had a vacation of 4 weeks, since when I have had nothing which has amounted to much in that respect. I have a little hobby as a matter of recreation, which I would like at the same time to further. I 
á mean a genealogical account of my family together with some Historical Memoranda of the town of Rowley where the first of the name in our line settled. 
Wednesday November 6, 1861. It would give me pleasure to visit Rowley once more and examine the town books for the information I want, and to make some transcripts also from the Records of the County offices at Salem. To do all this well would take more time, perhaps, than I can now spare but if I can get a fortnight I shall be glad of that. All things, however, are so uncertain in the future --health, life, of one's self, of others dependent upon one --that little can be asserted of the future. It is in the hands of Providence who turns us as He wills. 
Thursday November 7, 1861. Dr. N. at times is wonderfully garr[u]lous and gossipy. This evening he commenced on one of his old ex-periences. Said he, "When I first came to Albany in 1792, there was not a man in Albany who could talk English. All talked Dutch, and when I wanted to find someone who could talk with me, they told me there was a man five miles out of town who could talk English by the name of Mc something. So I went out to see him. When I came first to Albany the Dutch were so suspicious of Yankees that they put us into a room at night and locked us in. In the morning we had to remain locked up until they thought fit to let us out." 
Friday November 8, 1861. "When I first went up to Cherry Valley, I travelled a new road (the Cherry Valley turnpike). I was the first person who went thro'. I found a man on the way torn all to pieces by wolves who howled around me terribly. When I got to Cherry Valley, there was no bread to be had, no grain in all that region, and my first meal was a salad of lettuce and a dried herring &c." Here I came away feeling pained to find the old gentlemen so garralous. 
Col. Wm. Jackson is reported to be very sick at Washington of fever, His father went on to see him today. 
Saturday November 9, 1861. The report tonight is that Col. Wm Jackson,, son of Prof Jackson cannot live thro' the night. His bro. George has gone on also. Prof. Jackson has but two sons, Wm. and Geo. -Wm is the older, a promis-\ing young man and the pride of the family. His death would be a dreadful blow to all their hopes and expectations of promise. He took cold and fever from exposure in camp beyond Alexandria, Va. 
Sunday NovemberlO, 1861. At home all day with wife. Wea.ther mild and no frost to speak of. 
Monday November 11, 1861. The report comes this morning an to night that Col[l]. Jackson is better --welcome news to his friends here. Wind south and rain. 5 o'clock P.M. wind round west and cooler. 
The news from the great Naval Expedition is now coming in ripples, little by little thro rebel sources and more tonight from the telegraph &c. It is reported to have been successful. A hard fight, however, may be expected. 
Tuesday November 12, 1861. The news came this morning of Col. W. A. Jackson's death in Washington, D. C. His disease is supposed to have been the typhoid or camp fever. Many weeks since he came home for one week to recover from a cold and cough &and probably he has not been well since. He was but 29 or 30 yrs. of age --rather mature f~r his years and highly esteemed by his friends. The ,Faculty met this evening to see if any action should be taken in respect to the event, but adjourned till tomorrow evening when Prof. Jackson will be home .. 
Here again we see the bitter fruits of this wicked rebellion: when shall we see an end of it? 
Wednesday November 13, 1861. Mild day. This P.M. at 5 o'clock the remains of Col. Jackson accompanied by a Military Company from Albany arrived, and was taken to his fathers house The Faculty met and resolved to attend the funeral tomorrow at 2 o'clock with the students. 
The official news from the Great Expedition is of the most cheering kind. If only the Union troops hold what they have conquered, a most important diversion will have been affected to the Rebel troops. 
This day finished my advance in Conics and begin the review tomorrow. 
Thursday November 14, 1861. Fine day. The whole day has been given up to the funeral of Col. Jackson who was buried in Vale Cemetery at 2 o'cl;ock P.M. The religious exercises were had at Prof. J. 's house and the order of Procession was as follows: Students, Faculty, Clergymen, Bearers, Hearse, Bearers, Mourners, Masons, Common Council, Public in general. 
Thus passes away, leaving anguish in the friends hearts, 
another victim of this iniquitous rebellion. How many 
households will thus be rendered desolate! 
No Recitations today. 
The complete success of the great Naval Expedition at 
Port Royal, S. C. is assured by official accounts. 
Friday November 15, 1861. Cold wind from the North. 
Recitations as usual today. 
Saturday November 16, 1861. Cool wind north, with some flakes of snow. Tonight bro-in-law Magoun and his new wife came. She was the wife of Dr. Geo. White of Hudson who died some years since. From all I see and hear, the match is very proper and I hope it may prove happy for both. 
Sunday November 17, 1861. Windy and cool. At home all day with wife. Last evening the news came that Slidell & Mason, the Rebel [a]mbassadors to Europe had been taken from an English mail vessel in the West Indies and brought by Capt. Wilkes to Fortress Monroe, prisoners. Whatever may be the propriety of catching the rogues, it is a grave question whether it was proper to board an English vessel for such a purpose. This act may lead to unpleasant difficulties with Great Britain. 
Monday November 18, 1861. Windy and moderately cool. Mr. Magoun and wife left this morning at 9.45 for Hudson. 
Dr. N. has been troubled for two days about his stoves in the house and today sent for me to look at them, which I did and endeavored to p[e]rsuade him that they were in proper order. My assurance seemed to quiet him and make him [less] nervous. 
Tues.day November 19, 1861. Fine, clear, cool day. The talk now centres upon Thanksgiving Day among N. E. peoples and visions of the loaded tables and assembled relatives and friends come up. I am told that Prof. Chandler goes home to New London, Mass. tomorrow to keep the day. 
Wednesday November 20, 1861. Clear, cool, beautiful day. Prof. Jackson spoke againá of the necessity of having a College Cemetery or lot in the Vale Cem. The matter rests entirely with Dr. or Mrs. Nott. It has been understood for years that a plot of ground is to reserved somewhere on College ground for a burial place. The spot has been the question. For a long time it was fixed upon ground half a mile above N. College on the brook which runs just N. of the College, but after the Vale Cemetery was opened most of the Professors choose that as the best ground for our plot. College there owns as much ground as the Vale Cem. Assoc has fenced in on the west side, and it would be quite appropriate for Colleges use there --3 or 4 acres of its own ground instead of back of the N. Coll. There [are] several reasons in favor of our NS against the other plot. 1. The ground back of N. C. is far away from any house AND would need a cottager to look after it. 2. The soil is clay AND stones, wet, and quite unfit for the purpose. 3. The spot is lonely and dreary. 
The spot in Vale Cem. is 1. adjoining the Cemetery and will be under constant care of the Directors and Keeper. 2. The spot is more beautiful, pleasant and well kept. 3. The soil is sand and dry. 
Notwithstanding all these reasons Dr. N. never would settle the question tho' he has said he preferred Vale Cem. -.simply from his indisposition ever to finish anything; if he were to li[ve one hundred years he would not make up his mind where he would have his body buried. 
Prof. Jackson has his mo[ther] and son buried tempo.rarily upon Coll. ground in Vale Cem. I have buried my sister and son there. We now want the matter settled whether they are there to lie permanently or whether we are to have a Coll. ground elsewhere. 
Thursday November 21, 1861. Beautiful day --cool, clear and bracing. The term draws to a close and the stud en ts are getting uneasy to go home to Thanksgiving. 
Friday November 22, 1861. Signs of a storm. At Fae. meeting this evening, arrangements were made for closing Recitations ( and call them not an Exam.) on Mond. and Tues. next. 
Saturday November 23, 1861. Wet snow all day from east. Nothing new, from war or otherwise. 
Sunday November 24, 1861. Sleighing --snow 4 to 6 inches deep and thawing. At home with wife. 
Monday November 25, 1861. Mud and slush. Began our closing recitations and finished the Sophs and Fresh. Tomorrow the Sen. and Jun. go. It is sad to see how much time is lost by young men in College --squandered, lost, and --worse -.misapplied, put to bad uses! 
Tuesday, November 26, 1861. Good, mild, winter weather. A 
few miles north the snow is a foot deep and sleighing good. 
College Exercises closed today. This evening we had a fac. meeting to consider the standing and conduct of the students for the past session. Dr. Lewis, as well as others, complained of the conduct of the Sophomores in the Rec. Room during the session and he desired to be relieved of any further exercises with the class. It was suggested that he should divide the class into two divisions and he would find less difficulty with them. 
Wednesday November 27, 1861. Wet and sloppy --some signs 
of a storm, wind east. College shut, students gone. Professors 
ruminating and hybernating. 
Much talk among Profs. because Chandler, the youngest of the Fae., left one week before end of term to attend Thanksgiving at his fa[ther]'s in N. E.: bad example and begin.ning. 
Thursday November 28, 1861. Thanksgiving Day. Dr. Backus preached in Pres. Ch. one of his best sermons, I am told. The . only complaint wh. I ever hear of his preaching is that his discourses do not stick --they leave no definite impression afterwards They seem good at the time but pass away and leave nothing. Called upon Dr. and Mrs. Nott. The Dr. says he eats well and sleeps well but knows nothing. She bids not forget her business wh. is to look over the Mohawks Bk books and see if the Doct. has not paid there a certain claim twice. She might as well have bid me search the "pine plains" for gold. I am told the old books are in a perfect snarl and completely bemuddle whoever attempts to learn anything from them. Found little Miss Garretson of Rhinebeck there -a little good old maid in plain cap -almost a dwarf -but good as an elephant they say. Her minister was along. 
Friday November 29, 1861. Rainy diverly[?] --wind so. east and travelling for footmen as bad as it need be. Went about this P. M. to find something relating to yesterdays business -.Dr. N's Mohawk Bk matter. Called upon Nie. Swits the former Cashier --not at home. Passed over to State St. and called upon Abel Smith, the former President; he knew but little about it and advised me to see Swits. Mrs. N. and the Dr. know nothing about what they want, only they have an impression that the Bk have 3000 Dolls. too much of his money; when, how, for what it was paid they are ignorant. 
Saturday November 30, 1861. Warm; snow and mud and 
water, a sad mess. In office and about town all day and 
accomplished but little. 
Sunday December 1, 1861. At home all day with wife. Mr. Burghardt, now Chaplain to a regiment near Washington, preached today at Pres. Ch. and asked for contributions for a soldiers Library. 
Monday December 2, 1861. Fair winter weather, rain last night --snow, but thin and sleighing poor. All about thro' College woods pointing out trees to be removed. 
Saw Dr Backus on the matter of holding a Fin. Comm. meeting. So much is settled, that it is to be next, week what day is not decided. This meeting is understood to be held for the purpose of giving Lowber a hearing in relation to the $10,000 Bond and Mort[gage] which College is now foreclosing. Lowber would like to have another like deduction in this case as in that of the 40000 Ds. mort[gage]. But it is quite certain that the Trustees will not grant any such imposition. 
Tomorrow I expect to go to Syracuse with wife to visit her parents. 
Syracuse N. Y. Tuesday December 3, 1861. In the 8.15 train this morning we started for Syracuse and with[out] accident arrived there about 1 o'clock P. M. --found Fa[ther] and Mo[ther] Harvey and Sarah well and pleasantly housed at 69 Warren St. 
All that one sees in railroad travelling is hardly worth noting; the more speed, the less seen. All things become the mere passing visions of a waking dream. At the stations we just slack up for a hurrying passenger to leap off or on, and, if the Iron Horse demands his provender, he is supplied in 5 minutes: so also are his riders. 
Wednesday December 4, 1861. The weather is mild. Snow lies 6 in. deep around the city and many sleighs are seen in the streets. James St. is the fashionable part of the city. I cannot say much for the taste of its indwellers: they vie with each other in the size of their houses, most of which are great square ill looking barns of things. The lots are spacious. 
Thursday December 5, 1861. Fine weather. Nothing has interested me more than the salt works which are truly gigantic. The quantity is measured by the millions of barrels and yet it all comes from less than half doz. wells bored upon less than half an acre of ground. The wells are owned by the state; they are 330 feet deep, and the water is pumped up by two water wheels, each driving two pumping engines. From the great cistern, the water is carried in more than a dozen conduits for miles over the adjacent country to the many boilers and tanks. The water is so salt that about 100 gals. make 1 1/2 bush. of salt. There. are two methods of manufacture, one by boiling, the other by solar evaporation -.the latter can only be used 100 days in summer. Coal is getting to be extensively used for boiling. 
Syracuse and utica Friday December 6, 1861. This is our last day in S. In the afternoon at 4 we started in a freight train for Utica to visit Mr. and Mrs. John H. Edmonds; arrived at 8 1/2 o clock. Mr. E. is a lawyer in good prac tice. His wife, a Miss Dumeau from France, was once a teacher in Miss Sheldons (now Mrs. Nott) school in U[tica]. Hence her acquaintance with my wife. Mrs. E. has her aged fa[ther] and one sister Annette living with her. Her two ch[ildren], a son Walter and dau[ghter] Annette are 11 and 6 respectively. 
Utica and Un. Coll. Saturday December 7,1 1861. Beautiful day. Called this morning upon Miss Jane, Mary Ann and Elizabeth Kelly who have a school for young ladies in the same building formerly occupied by Miss Sheldon. At 4, started for home where arrived at 7.20 --all well and happy once more to be at home. 
Sunday December 8, 1861. At home with wife. 
Union Coll. and N. Y. Monday December 9, 1861. For many weeks we have been trying to get a meeting of the Finan. Committee for the pur.pose of hearing Mr. R. W. Low-ber state his case in relation tq the Bond and M[ortgage] of 10,000 Dolls. now owned by Un. Coll. He desires to repudiate it entirely; we think he owes it and should pay it. Today it is decided that the meeting shall be held on Friday next at 3. P. M. in the house of Mr. Delavan, 47 No. Pearl St., Albany. Having 3 days before this meeting, I went to N. Y. this evening to look after matters of Hunter Pt. At St. Nicholas at 10 1 /2 P. M. 
Gramercy Rark House and Hunter Point. Tuesday December 10, 1861. Spent the whole day at Hunter Pt. where Mr. Jona. Crane superintends and H. S. Anable keeps the books. The former talks incessantly abt. politics, temperance, and religion, and little abt. business. so this day was nearly lost. Back to Gram. Pk. Hotel where Mr. Chas. Ely boards, one of the largest proprietors of H. Pt. This hotel is cheifly patronized by permanent boarders: families, clerks &c. 
Hunter Point Wednesday December 11, 1861. All day auditing accounts -.comparing vouchers &c. till dark. The land-selling business is now dull, hardly enough sold to pay expenses. 
Hunter Pt. and Un. Coll. 
Thursday December 12, 1861. All day till 4 o'clock at H. Pt. 
comparing andexamin[in]g vouchers &c. Saw Rev. Cort. Anable, 
bro. of H. S. Anable. 
Started at 5.30 from 30th St. for home and arrived there 
at 12 o 'clock. All well . 
. Albany 
Friday December 13, 1861. 9.45 went to Albany with Dr. 
Hickok and Judge Paige to attend the meeting of Fin. Com.at Mr. 
Delavan's, 4 7 Pearl St. Present: Judge Paige in chair, Mr. 
Delavan, Dr. Backus, Hon R. Denniston. 
Mr. Lowber made his statement, 3 hours long --11 to 3, 
when we adjourned. Spent remainder of the day at State Libr. 
andhome at six o'clock. 
Saturday December 14, 1861. Busy all day at office. No snow --weather mild. 
Sunday December 15, 1861. Fa[ther] Harvey came down last evening by 7.20 train. At home with wife all day. Mild,not wintry 
Monday December 16, 1861. Dodging about all day getting ready if possible to take a jaunt to Boston and vic[inity] tomorrow or next day. Judge Paige, Dr. Backus and Dr. Hickok advise me to go, still my heart is not in it but in-dines to remain where my home and work is 
Fa[ther] Harvey left this P. M. at 2 for New York. 
Tuesday December 17, 1861. Beautiful, mild day. Busy all day getting ready my business preparatory to leaving tomorrow morning for Boston. I doubt my being able to leave my cares behind so as to enjoy this short vacation. Some men are so constituted that they can throw off their weighty troubles as they do a garment. I cannot; and few have more reason to be sad than I in view of [what] is before me in the future. May Heaven bless andwatch over the dear ones I leave behind when I am away from them. 
Boston, Mass. Wednesday December 18, 1861. Arose at 4 and started by Rail at 5 o'clock this morning for Albany, from whence I started at 
7.30 for Boston. The day was fine; still the ride was a long and wearisome one, closing only at dark or about 5 o'clock, when I was safely landed in Boston at Tremont House. 
Thursday December 19, 1861. Weather keen but clear and bracing. Called after breakfast upon Mr. Saml G. Drake, Bookseller, 13 Bromfield Street. I had had some communi.cations with him for years back on various subjects and now for the first time saw him face to face. I found him a spare man of 65 yrs. or so, very neat in his dress, pleasant and intelligent in his address, kind and polite. He gave me a letter to Mr. David Pulsifer of the Sec. of State's office where the remaining hours of the day I spent in looking over the Ancient papers and Doc[ument]s there stored. My object was to find such as related to any of my name or to the town of Rowley. 
Friday December 20, 1861. Clear and cold, little or no snow here. All day in the Secretary of States office. The ancient papers down to about 1780 are fastened into large scrap books, to ea. of which is attached a table of contents, besides which there is a c[h]ronological table in several volumes of the same papers, which are arranged by subjects, such as Ecclesiastical Papers, Military [ditto], Town [ditto], Muster Rolls &c&c. A perfect index would be a very desirable help, but can hardly be looked for at present. The clerks in the office are kind and very obliging. 
Saturday December 21, 1861. Cold and clear. Saturday all day at Sec. States office, looking over old papers, copying, &c. Among these papers I find several relating to Schenectady, particularly the burning of the town in 1692. Not having time to copy, I have only taken notes of the vol. and p. where found, hoping sometime to obtain a transcript of them. 
Sunday December 22, 1861. Mr. Pulsifer took me to the Salem St. Congr. Ch. where I heard a sermon from Rev. Mr. French, on the belief in Diety, his attributes &c. as contrasted with the God of the Heathen. Mr. P. is a perfectly little antique: short, stout, old-fashioned and kind-hearted. He has shown me much kindness. Moreover he has a rich vein of fun and mirth, and nothing pleases him more than a joke. Tomorrow I have resolved to push on to old Rowley for a few days. 
Rowley, Mass. Monday December 23, 1861. Arose at 6. Breakfast at 6 1/2 
A.M. About six in. of snow fell during the night, but towards morning it turned to rain which fell in torrents. Such a dismal day can only be found on the east shore of Mass. Nevertheless I resolved to go on, and took the eastern train at 7 1/2 o'clock, and after a couple hours ride stopped at Rowley Depot on Warehouse River. 
Here fortunately Mr. Smith, host of the village Inn, took me in to his covered waggon and after a ride of an hour and a half dropped me safely at his house. My first homesickness and blues came over me here, and well they might. Towards night I paddled over to Mr. Prime's, the town clerk, and got a look at the old town books --which fortunately are entire from 1643 downward. Tomorrow I promise myself a rich feast in their perusal. 
Tuesday December 24, 1861. Cooler, snow and slush frozen hard, making the roads like a bed of flints to the feet. 9: called upon the town clerk; he had gone to N[ewbury?] Port with the key of the safe holding the towns books; not to be back till night. Here is a whole day lost. With great disappointment I went back to the Inn, and to do what I could, borrowed the old parish books of Mr. Smith beginning in 1734 and examined them. 
In the P. M. called upon Dr. Joshua Jewett, the oldest man of the town, aged 93. Altha suffering from the severe pains of stranguary, the old gentleman seemed pleased to see me and spoke intelligently of the ancients of the town, whom he had know [for] more than 3/4 of a cent. ago. Of the Pearsons at the Mills he knew several generations but I believe they were all given to strong drink except the last --John --of whom every one speaks in high terms as being an excellent examplary young man. The old Dr. says he shall not live but a few days -.has the gravel. 
Wednesday December 25, 1861. Worked all day diligently till 11 o'clock at night, upon the old 1st Book of Possessions of Rowley, beginning 1643 . I dispair, however, of doing more than copy here and there s a page that interest me most. I would like to get enough information to make a map of the house-lots of the first settlers of R., but the thing seems almost impossible, so imperfectly are some of them described in the ancient book. One thing I find, that much store is laid upon the early town records of Mass. Their General Court has passed a law that the town clerk of every town shall have a fire-proof safe for holding the towns books. 
Thursday December 26, 1861. Good winter weather. Dea[con] Jno. Perly Pearson of Newburyport came over and spent most of the day with me talking of the ancient people, places, and things of the town. He is a great enthusiast in the genealogy of our family, and altho' a man of no great learning has very strong good sense.Worked till 11 o'clock on the old town book. 
Rowley and Salem, Mass. Friday December 27, 1861. Fine winter weather. All day at Mr. Primes', the town clerk, rummaging as usual among the old books, copying &c. I seen no one more kind and confiding than this Mr. P. He has done what few in his situation would have done --permitted [me] to take the oldest book of records to the Inn at night and copy from it there. Bid adieu to R. for the present and at 6 o'clock left for Salem where arrived before 7. and stopped at the Essex House, still kept as it has been these 40 yrs by S. S.Leavitt. 
Salem, Mass. Saturday December 28, 1861. The N. E. wind, keen and sharp, has blown the whole night and day a perfect gale, making it difficult to move about out of doors. All day at the Co. clerks office searching for the purpose of fixing with certainty the residence and home lot of Dea. Jno. Pearson in Rowley. In 1858 I spent many days here in the various offices and met with some success in my researches and much kindness. 
Sunday December 29, 1861. Clear cold weather. Attended the Crombie St. Church and heard the Rev. Prof. Parks of Andover Theol. Seminary. His subject was the imprecatory Psalms of David, which he attempted to explain ~s proper denunciations on wicked me, who had rebelled against Gods government. He also incidentally spoke of the rebellion in our own country, made an application of the subject to the rebels. At the Hotel the rest of the day. 
Monday December 30, 1861. Clear, cold day, wind from the 
N.E.freezing everything upon which it breathes. All day I have spent in the Recorder of Deeds office. A search for the ownership of a parcel of ground for 220 years, even if all the deeds be found on record, is no small labor. 
Salem and Boston, Mass. Tuesday December 31, 1861. After spending all day in my laborious search, at 7 this evening I left for Boston. The result of my search for Dea. Jno. Pearsons home-lot in Rowley is not entirely satisfactory, tho' enough was found to show that Capt. Jos. Scott owned the property more than 7 5 years, down nearly or quite to 1800. He deeded it to his son Moses, but how the latter disposed of it I did not learn. The Scott house, I was told in Rowley, stood upon Mr. Titcombs present land. 
On arrival at Fremont House I found letters from home -.also a telegraph saying that my wife is sick and I must hasten home tomorrow. This news with the dread forebodings it brings, completely upsets all my repose. Would I had the wings of a bird to return at once! 

