
1862 Boston and Schen. 
Wednesday January 1, 1862. Fine day. Started at 8 1/2 A. M. and crawled along all day, arriving at Albany at 5 1/2 P.M. and at home at 7 o'clock in the evening. Found wife very sick. 
Thursday January 2, 1861. Slept none last night and indeed for two nights. This morning wife fell into a sleep, the first she has had for 4 days and nights and slept most of the time till evening; this was better than any medicine. 
Friday January 3, 1862. Last night [wife] slept pretty well, also most of the day, taking a little food and drink. We hope the worst is over and that now she will rapidly recover. 
Saturday January 4, 1862. Tonight for the first time since Jan.4., Tuesday night, I took off my clothes and went to bed. Wife is recovering fast and sleeps and eats well. She sits up a part of the day. I have not been out of the house yet, or left the sickroom. 
Sunday January 5, 1862. At home all day with wife, who is doing well. 
Monday January 6, 1862. Out for the first time since Wed. last. On "Hill" to look into the old den of an office once more, and downtown to Dr. Backus, who desired to see me on the matter of the repairing of No. Hall for Prof. Fosters residence. He handed me the plans and specifications made by Prof. Stanton and desired me to inspect them in connection with some good builder, that proper estimates and alterations might be made. He then spoke of the matter of my salary which he & Judge Paige have it in head to arrange. Dr. B. proposes that I shall have as Professor $750, as Treasurer 750, 1500 paid by Coll. and as Treas. for Hunter Point Trust, to be pd. by same, 750: $2250 
I had always told him that I did not desire that College should pay me any more salary that it did at present, but he said I might do as I pleased about giving back 250 Dolls. of the sum pd. by Hunter Pt. Trust but advised me not to do it, if at all, except as a temporary thing. In fact, he rather thought I had better not, wouldnt advise me to do it. 
Tuesday January 7, 1862. All day in Treas. off. and over at the Old No. Hall, examing the building and plans with the carpenter. 
Wednesday january 8, 1862. To Albany with the Annual Report of College to the Regents of Univ. Delivered same to Dr. Woolworth, the Secretary. Then had a long talk with Littlefield, the stove maker. His base-burning stove, which we are now using in College, is the most useful invention of the age for us. Home at 7. 
Thursday January 9, 1862. All day busied about the North Hall business discussing the alterations to be made, examining the old House &c. With Prof Foster and the carpenter and mason, Van Vranken and Brignall. 
Friday Januarsy 10, 1862. Busy with the old No. Hallbusiness. This evening we held the usual Fae. Meeting. at 4 o'clock. Term 
opened tonight. 
Saturday January 11, 1862. Edw. P. Magoun came at noon. The usual annoyances and calls at the beginning of the session. Snow tonight 
Sunday January 12, 1862. Snow during the night and rain great part of the day, making the whole a sad mess for the foot-man. At home with wife. 
Monday January 13, 1862. Clear cold day, wind from the North-west. All day in office and Rec. Room. 10 to 12 o'clock, met the Soph. class --about 50 present, for Algebra Rec. Began with Arith. Progression in Bourdon's Algebra. Rec. Room No. 
10. No. Colonnade. 
Tuesday January 14, 1862. Clear and cold. Much time I have spent about the repairing and alterations of No. Hall for a residence for Prof. Foster. This project looks ill for the College. It is proposed to expend 1500 Dolls. upon an old building which, when done, will be but an botched-up affair and not such a dwelling as other persons would like. My proposition is that 2000 or even 2500 Dolls. had better be expended in a new house situated on Union St. near the entrance to College grounds ans that the No Hall be retained for a boarding house and rented as such. I doubt, however, if anything can be done for the good of College where private interest seems to urge to the contrary. 
Wednesday January 15, 1862. Snow, rain, hail, and sleet, wind so[uth]. Money is the word now --money to pay College debts, money to pay salaries Feb. 1., oney to repair the No. Hall. Whence shall it be had? The falling-off of students reduces our income and will be likely to reduce it full 3000 Ds. this year. 
Thursday January 16, 1862. In these days I am busi[ly] looking about to meet 3 large notes of Coll. which become due about the same date, one of 2500, [ditto] 1000, [ditto] 1500: $5000. I hope to pay off all but $1000. But in a few days I shall need 5000 Ds. again to pay sals. Feb. 1. Whence to raise the funds I know not save by borrowing. 
Friday January 17, 1862. College opens as well as we could expect for the times:-some of our students have gone to the war, some from strai[gh]tened circumstances are obliged to earn their bread, and many parents are looking for diminished incomes and are withdrawing their sons from College and otherwise curtailing expenses. I should not be surprised if next year our professors should find their sals. lowered. It is hardly possible that we can meet our expenditures with our present income. 
Saturday January 18, 1862. Snow almost all day. In office answering letters &c 
[Sunday] January 9, 1862. Snow all day --moderately. At home with wife. 
Monday January 20, 1862. Snow all day, some rain. An immense body of it on ground, but no drifting. Dunning time for students --a great bore, slow pay, money scarce. College is now well agoing, students pretty well back 
My two rec. are Higher Algebra with two divisions of Soph. Class. Some ten or dozen new students have entered and some have left. Many changes in these times. 
Tuesday january 21, 1862. Mountains of snow. Fine clear bright day. Rumors of Union successes in Kentucky give joy to loyal hearts. Yet with all is mingled that dreadful thought of suffering: hundreds of wounded men and slaughter of many more. What Christian man can look upon war but with horror. Called upon Dr. Nott, poor old man! he still lives the wreck of what he once was. So vigo[u]rous is his constitution he may live some time yet. 
Wednesday January 22, 1862. Mild, still; snow thawing. All things jog on as usual in College 
Thursday January 23, 1862. Thawing. Dunning students -.money comes hard. 
Friday January 24, 1862. Signs of a storm. Faculty meeting but 
nothing done. Writing dunning letters. 
Saturday January 25, 1862. Snow and hail all day. Immense 
body of snow on the ground. All day in office. 
Sunday January 26, 1862. High wind all night and day filling the air with snow and drifting all the N. and S. roads full, I presume .. At home all day with wife. 
Monday January 27, 1862. High winds. The ordinary routine on the Hill. Met Dr. Backus; he calls for the estimate of the North Hall repairs. Carpenters and masons. promised them on Wed. if the mechanics can be hurried up. Gen. Cady of Schen. Bk. promises to loan money for sals. on Feb. 1. 
Tuesday January 28, 1862. Cold, clear day. The usual routine in College. 
Wednesday January 29, 1862. Some changes we have made in Rec. Rooms this term: 1. In South College, south section, we have knocked two lower rooms into one on the N. side of the Hall and made a new Rec. for Dr. Lewis. This is a very comfortable arrangement for him as it is next door to his office, which lies on the opposite side of the Hall. 2. We have made a similar Rec. Room for Dr. Newman in South sec., No. Coll., where also the two low rooms opposite his study have been made into one for a rec. room. 3. Dr. Newmans Rec. Room, called No. 9, 
being the western-most room in No. Colonnade, has been connected to Dr. Gillespie's suite of Engineering Rooms by cutting a door thro' the east partition. He now has the entire lower storey of that Colonnade save Dr. Newmans kitchen, which is at the extreme w. end of it. The range of 5 Rooms are 125 ft. in length by 19 ft. in width in the clear. This arrangement gives room for models and apparatus. 
Thursday January 30, 1862. Today the proposals to alter the 
N. Hall for Prof. Foster's residence were opened and the following bids were made: Carpenters: Vandyck $935.25, G. I. Van Vranken, 1060., Jno. Hilts 1191. 
Masons: Mclncrow 44 7, Brignall & Vanzandt, 5 24. 
Painter: Weinman 130. Van Dyck and Mclncrow have it and the bid[s] for painting is to be reserved till more come in. 
Friday January 31, 1862. More snow. Today made preparation to pay salaries tomorrow. Borrowed 3090 Ds. of Schen, Bank, of which 1300 Ds. was for Nott Trust Fund. 
Saturday February 1, 1862. Snow again. Paid salaries. Most of the day with Mr. Jona. Crane, our agent at Hunter's Point, discussing a new contract with the N. Y. and Flushing R.R. Co. in relation to the track and Depot grounds at H. Pt. This matter has given a great deal of trouble to the Land Company, but it [is] supposed that the matter is now nearly finished. 
Sunday February 2. 1862. Fine sunny day. At Bapt. Ch. Rev. Mr. Day preached. Communion after the forenoon service. 
Monday February 3, 1862. Snow this P. M. Spent all the P. M. with Mr. Jona. Crane at Judge Paiges office discussing the terms of the N. Y. & Flushing contracts for ground and right-of-way at Hunters Point. Mr. C. is a great talker and a very good one too, but when business is on hand his stories are often very wasteful of time. 
Tuesday February 4, 1862. Snow again lightly. All day out of Rec. Room preparing deeds &c. for transfer of a leased lot at W. Troy to the U. S. Government for a part of the Arsenal Yard. This lot being a part of Warner Prize Fund required peculiar management . 
The Regents of Univ. and Legislature are concocting some measures for giving military instruction to students in Colleges and have written to us for our views. We can give a better course of Instruction to young men in this branch than any other Coll. in the state and at less cost to the state. 
Wednesday February 5, 1862. Busy on the contracts for N. Y. and Flushing R. R. Co. 
Thursday February 6, 1862. Got the contracts off but do not think the N. Y. & F[lushing] R.R. Co. will assent to them because not made by themselves. These corporations at the Hunters Pt. are a hard set to deal with, always looking so closely to their own advantage. 
Friday February 7, 1862. Sun shiny day. 
Saturday February 8, 1862. The aspect of things relating to our great Civil [War] has changed greatly for some months. Our expeditions down the Coast have generally been successful; in a certain sense they have met with failure so far as any attempt has been made, but our attacks have been cheifly confined to seaside places and have in no case been followed up vigorously by interior excursions. I do not see, therefore, that the heart of the rebellion has been reached. In Kentucky things look more favorable for success to the Union arms. 
Some decided advances have been made into the enemies country and, so far as the state of the roads will permit, there is a prospect of our armies passing in to Tennessee. Our gun boats upon the Western Waters are about to do an important work there; they have already shown their metal at Fort Henry on [the] Tennessee River and have cleared the river of all opposing forces. But, after all, are we to be again a united people? Can we compel them to come back into our Union? or if we could conquer them, will it be worth our while to do so? 
It does seem to me now, as it ever has, that we are only fighting for a boundary; the South to carry it North, the North to carry it south and to get control of the Mississippi River. I think our main strength should be laid out at the West upon this river. However the war terminates, we must hold that; it should be filled with gun boats if necessary and every rebel fortification from Cairo to the Gulph should be silenced. While the mouths are blockaded, a force by land should march and seize the city if it should take 50,000 men to do it. I do think our rulers are wasting their strength upon the seacoast while the great prize, the mouths of the Mississippi, are neglected. 
Sunday February 9, 1862. At home with wife. 
Monday February 10, 1862. Weather clear and cold. Having been nearly a year at war, our people still appear as determined to fight it out as ever, they fear nothing but the meddling interference of other nations. How soon they will yeild to the pressure for cotton, no one knows. But for this ex.pectation and hope, the rebels would have yeilded long ago. 
I still think that nothing but a bold proclamation of war upon slavery ---universal emancipation -and that done in time will save us f[rom] foreign interference. They talk so much of the desirableness of such an event that I do not see how they could interfere should we follow their wishes. However that may be, whether we conqu[e]r or the rebels succeed thro' foreign intervention, slavery is doomed. It dies either by us or thro' foreign aid. 
Tuesday February 11. 1862. Clear and cold. The news tonight is that the Burnside Expedition to Pamlico and Albermarle Sound has taken Roanoake Island, batteries, rebel gun-boats, and 5000 prisoners. Whether true or not, it seems pretty certain that our arms have met with some success there of im.portance. 
Wednesday February 12, 1862. Today Jona. Crane, S. F. Smith and E. F. Parsons came up from N. Y. to arrange the unsettled matter of the Flushing R. R. Co. and the Hunter Pt. Trust. For many years this Co. has desired to get a new depot at H. Pt but the terms offered by the Land Co. did not suit them. After much discussion, the terms were settled today and the con.tracts are to be copied and sent up immediately for execution by the College. Smith is the Pres. of the Co. Parsons is his attorney, and Crane, Judge Paige and myself represented the College. 
Thursday February 13, 1862. Dr. L[ewis], our most nervous and irritable Prof., met with a mishap to-day which threw him into a most lamentable fit of rage Being a most careless and forgetful man, he went into his Rec. Room before the hour of Rec. leaving his key in the lock on the outside. A mischeivous sophomore, spying the opportunity, turned the key and locked him in. Immediately the Doct. jumped at the door, kicking and flouncing about the room whilst the mischeivous boys outside giggled and jeered at his passion; as no other means of egress presented itself, the Doct. raised the window and leaped out, 
,but instead of laughing at the neat trick he attacked the first man he met, charging him with being the rogue. His rage and passion only tickled the young rascals the more. Altha' a learned man and able lecturer, the Doct is quite unfitted for the management of roguish boys. 
Friday February 14, 1862. This Soph. Class is a very boyish set; they have not shed their freshmen skins yet. I fear they will get far along their course before they acquire a manly bearing and deportment. 
Saturday February 15, 1862. All day in office, engaged upon 
the N. Y. & Flushing R.R. Co. contracts. 
Rumors of a great fight going on at Fort Donelson upon the Cumberland River between the Union and Rebel forces are flying over the wires today and raise great hopes among our people. If the same success awaits our forces there as at Ft Henry upon the Tennessee River, then the Rebel lines will be broken and nothing can save Nashville and Tennessee from our conquering arms. 
Sunday February 16, 1862. At home all day with wife. Dr. Halley preached in the Presbyterian Ch. and Mr. Day preached a funeral sermon on the death of Mrs. Eve Vedder Clute, an ancient member of the ch. who died last week. It is understood that she has made the Baptist her reversionary legatee in her city property. How much that may be, I know not. Her aged sister is to have the use of the same during her life time. 
Monday February 17, 1862. It is reported for a certainty that Fort Donelson has fallen and that our forces now occupy it. The rebel force is said to have been 15,000 and to [have] capitulated and laid down their arms. If this be true, the backbone of treason and rebellion in Tennessee and Kentucky is broken. The rebels are also said to [have] left Bowling Green for the south, whilst our forces are following in hot haste. The next week is big with the fate of the Rebellion in the West. News also comes of the fall of Savannah, but so much gcxxl news in one day can hardly be all true tho' it may be so. Snow again. 
Tuesday February 18, 1862. Last evening the students and some of the Profs. held a meeting in the Chapel to celebrate the victory of the Union forces over the Rebels at Fort Donelson. Speeches were made by Dr. Hickok and Newman, Profs. Peissner and Chandler, and several students. Patriotic songs were sung, accompanied by the usual boisterous demonstra.tions of young men. Whilst thus we rejoice over this great success, how many families are made desolate, how many wives, mothers, and sisters are called to mourn slaughtered friends in that dreadful fight. 
Tonight attended our usual farcical examination for delinquents at No. 16, _Prof. Fosters Rec. Room in Philos. Hall. 
Wednesday February 19, 1862. Mild. Thawing. Snow tonight. Tonight the examination of University students for full standing to College is held, but on account of son Jno's indisposition --cold and fever --I do not go up. 
The expectation of the public is now greatly excited by the impending renewal of the contest in Tennessee, either at Clarksville on the Cumberland above Fort Donelson or at Nashville, where it is supposed the scattered rebel hosts will be marshalled. Within a week we may hear of another great battle, or else another retreat of the Rebels. May Heaven shorten this dreadful contest and bring peace and union out of this confusion. There seems to be no doubt of a strong Union sentiment in Tennessee. 
Thursday February 20, 1862. Snow again this evening. 
Fridday February 21, 1862. Ten in. of snow last night. It is now not less than 3 ft. on the level in the woods; for many years we have not had the like. The wind is drifting it badly to day. 
Great preparations are making all over the country to celebrate the birth day of Washington tomorrow. The stirring war news and successes have kindled great enthusiasm for the Union. 
Troy and Albany 
Saturday February 22, 1862. Warm day. At 9.45 A.M. went to Troy and delivered deeds to Beach J. Smith and to A. D. Dunlop for Lot 67 West Troy. This transaction is to furnish the U. S. Govt. with more room at W. Troy for the Arsenal grounds. Passed over to W. Troy and arranged with W. Troy Bank toá draw on them for 500 Dolls. of rents in their hands and took cars for Albany. Called upon Joel Munsell, Printer and Antiquarian, a very worthy, industrious, and useful man, as well as a good printer. Arranged with him for a Register for College. Home at 6.40. All along today's travel, the day is honored with flags and military parades. 
Sunday February 23, 1862. Melting day, some rain tonight. Today I finish my 49th year and enter my 50th tomorrow. When one has reached this period, he may well feel that he is passing the limits of youth into old age. The mercies of another year, how many they are! Our little flock is spared --our healths, our reason, our priveleges, our outward favors are continued. --God be praised for them! . 
Monday February 24, 1862. Thawing fast with rain till 2 o'clock, then a sudden change of wind to the west, cold, bitter, and fierce. 
Tuesday February 25, 1862. The affairs of the country look more encouraging for the Union cause, At the West the advance of our forces down south toward Nashville are so rapid that the scattered forces of rebellion have no time to recover their self possession and fortify their positions before they are again threatened. Much hard fighting remains to be done,, however, before the the traitors are effectually scotched 
Wednesday February 26, 1862. This winter has exceeded its predecessors for many years in its severity and quantity of snow. Mountains of it still lay upon the ground and many roads are quite impassable. 
Thursday February 27, 1862. The College Fast day. At 10 o'clock, the College assembled in Chapel and listened to a sermon by Rev. Geo. C. Baldwin D. D., Bapt. Mins. of Troy. All were agreeably disappointed[?] in him; his sermon was impressive and well adapted to do good to the young men. I was sorry to see so many students absent. At 3 o'clock there was a Union prayer meeting at the Bapt. Ch., and a sermon by Dr. Baldwin in the evening at the same place. 
Friday February 28, 1862. Our carpenter Van Dyck and mason Mclncrow, contractors to repair No. Hall for Prof Foster, are at work, but the weather has been too severe to allow of very rapid progress. 
Saturday March 1, 1862. Tremendous wind last night and 
today from west. The snow flies nimbly. 
Our College Library has a great accumulation of pamphlets and newspapers which I am now getting into order. Edw. Magoun and son John are doing much of the work. 
Sunday March 2, 1862. At home all day with wife. 
Monday March 3, 1862. Rain this P. M. Fa[ther] Harvey came 
this evening from Syracuse. 
Tuesday March 4, 1862. The streets are in a terrible pickle with water, snow and ice. 
Wednesday March 5, 1862. This Soph. class now in College is the most boyish set of young men I have known for years. They have not ceased to be freshmen and I fear never will. Without being ill-natured, they are frivolous, rude and undignified, and there is not manliness enough in the class to control the froth. 
Thursday March 6, 1862. Wind w. and not much thawing. All day on letters &c. the same dayly routine. Fa[ther] Harvey left for home in Syracuse this morning. 
Friday March 7, 18 6 2. On all sides there seems to be active movements of troops save on the Potomac where "all is quiet" as the hacknied phrase goes. The western armies have done wonders within the last two months and really appear to be the only live soldiers we have. From the outset, our eastern army seems to have been spellbound; the disgraceful run at Bull's Run, has made our officers so excessively cautious to avoid another mishap that they have been content to remain comparatively idle all the fall and winter, enjoying the gay society of Washington, and showing off their fine uniforms on Pennsylvania Avenue. The farther our officers get away from Washington, the more they do. 
Saturday March 8, 1862. It really looks now as tho' our ar.my at the West,, in connection with the gun boats, would open away down the Mississippi to New Orleans and take the City. The moment the Rebel lines were broken at Forts Henry and Donelson, a panic seems to have taken hold of their army, and they have done nothing but retreat south and farther south in utter confusion. Their "Gibraltar" is now considered to be Columbus, which report says they have abandoned as untena.ble after the breaking of their lines. This abandoned, where will they stop next? Confessedly, no other place on the river is so strong. 
Sunday March 9, 1862. At Bapt. Ch. Rev. Mr. Day preached. 
Monday March 10, 1862. To day we have been excited by the news of a great Naval fight at Hampton Roads such as has never before been heard of: a duel been two iron-mailed vessels. It seems that on the Sat. the Rebel frigate Merrimac. iron-clad came down to Newport News and demolished our two old sailing vessels of war, Cumberland and Congress, before they could move out [of] her way. She lay by till Sunday to renew the work of destruction upon our other wooden vessels in the harbor, but at 10 1/2 o'clock that evening Ericson's little iron vessel, the Monitor, arrived and immediately went to the scene of combat. She fought the huge Merrimac for 4 hours until her antagonist was so far disabled as to slink away into Norfolk again. á á á 
Tuesday march 11. 1862. We [hear] of nothing but praises of the successful little Monitor which so completely worsted her great clumsy opponent. This trial of iron vessels seems at once to show their superiority over wooden ones in the present state of our armaments. The huge guns used in this fight were sufficient to riddle a wooden vessel and sink her in an hour; but neither [iron-clad?] vessel seems to have been disabled, altho the Merrimac was evidently somewhat injured whilst the Monitor, tho' struck 22 times, was ready to renew the fight the next hour. Her Commander Worden was the only man hurt and that by powder thrown thro' his peep hole by an exploding 
shell, injuring his eyes. Hereafter our harbors will be defended 
by iron gun-boats with enormous guns and not by costly stone 
forts. 
Wednesday March 12, 1862. They say that Fort Columbus is really abandoned by the rebels and all have fled down the river --some say to Island No. 10, just above New Madrid, Mo., some to Randolph &c. We shall soon know where they have stopped, for our gun boats and army will be after them. 
The Rebels are always about to make a desperate stand anad their last hold is always the strongest, but somehow their courage fails them when the struggle comes. That they are disheartened and demoralised there can be hardly a doubt, and that they consider their cause as good as lost one can plainly see, still great conflicts must yet be expected. 
Thursday March 13, 1862. The Union cause has made great progress within the last two months which, if kept up for the two mos. to come, must break the backbone of rebellion and cow the slaveholder, we have certainly reason to be en.couraged. If once we can hold the Missippi from its source to its mouth, thus splitting the rebellion length-wise and holding the keys of the commerce of the great Missippi Valley, I shall consider it one of the greatest triumphs in the war. The party which holds permanently the mouths of this great river holds the country North and South, west of the Alleganies. That river 
is worth  ten  Virginia's,  twenty  Washingtons,  all the  cotton  
states.  
Friday March 14, 1862.  Now come  flying news that  Centre. 

ville and Manassas and Winchester and Leasburgh in front of our Potomac lines are left by the retreating rebels, who have moved down to the Rappahannock to occupy a new and better line. When will wonders cease ! Altho' we rejoice at this new evidence of their weakness, there is an evident feeling of cha.grin felt by our people that our splendid army of the Potomac should have suffered the rebels to slink away and carry all their guns with any molestation from us [and] even without our knowledge. We have a host of fine officers at Washington, but I begin to think they are better pleased with warlike parade about the Capital than with hard service in the field. 
Saturday March 15, 1862. Went to Albany yesterday for blinders boards to preserve our College newspapers. Snow, rain, sleet, & the awful slush of March weather; we have now the premonitions of a flood and, unless a change takes place soon in the weather, it will be a great one. 
Sunday March 16, 1862. Rain and snow still. Horrible walking. 
The ice still remains in our rivers. 
Monday March 17, 1862. Our cheif Homoepathic Doctor, Herman Smits, is sick dangerously --over-worked, 'tis said. The diphtheria sore-throat still prevails among children; a fatal and far-extended complaint. 
Tuesday March 18, 1862. More news of victory: Island No. 10 in the Mississippi below Columbus is said to be taken with transports and munitions. Again, Burnside it is said has at.tacked the enemy strongly entrenched at Newburn and routed them with great slaughter. Again, in another encounter in Ark[ansas], three rebel colonels are taken and how many men 
no one knows. 
Called upon A. J. Thomson Esq. this P. M. and proposed what has long been upon my mind --the formation of a local historical club for Schen. He heartily assented to it, accorded his approbation, promising also his cooperation. After, called upon Colonel Stephen Yates and spoke of the same matter to him, Mr. Wm. Van Vranken and to D. Cady Smith who all heartily approved of the measure. Col. Y. gave me an old day-book kept by Tobias Ten Eyck, mercht. in Sthen. in 1767-1771, also an old Ms. map of Schen. made in 1768, by one Is. Vrooman, for Coll. Libr. Col. Y. is a great gossip, full of anecdote and talk --has nothing else to do. He says that Cucumber Ally was anciently called Ann St. from a somewhat notorious loose woman of that name who lived there. Also that Jefferson St. was called Love Lane. He says that one Lighthall kept a tavern anciently in Front street opposite old Dr. Yates (now Mrs. Stuyvesant's) house, which had a swing sign on which was a hammer which, when the wind blew, struck a suspended bell over which was painted 11 o'clock. Whence he was called "Eleven O'clock Lighthall." 
Wednesday March 19, 1862. Moderate weather. Each day wastes the snow, which still lays in great heaps in our streets. Ice still immovable in the rivers. The news of today is the confirmation of a hotly contested engagement at Newb[u]rn N.C. betw. Burnside and the rebels, who were beaten and fled, leaving great quantities of guns and military stores. The report of Island No, 10 being in our possession is premature; at the last accounts the contest was going betw. our gun boats and the rebel forces on the mainland and Island. 
Thursday March 20, 1862. Warm --snow going slowly. Called upon Dr. Swits, who has been very sick as is said of pneu.monia --now slowly recovering. Called also with wife upon Dr. 
A. M. Vedder and w[ife]. Mrs. V. has a long time been an invalid with a tumor which has grown so large that she looks like a hogshead --an exellent woman --an old school mate of wife's. 
Friday march 21, 1862. Sleet all day; dreadful walking, 
mountains of snow and slush. Snow thaws slowly. 
Dr. Backus called at Treas. off. to arrange for sending on money for 10 subscribers to Dr. R. J .. Brackenridges Danville Rev[iew]. I spoke to him about the formation of a historical soc. in Schen. for local purposes. He heartily approved of it and promised his aid. 
Saturday March 22, 1862. Mild with some snow and sleet. All day in office. One week more of study this session. 
Sunday March 23, 1862. Some sleet. At home with wife all day. 
Monday March 24, 1862. The news, come from various priv.ate letters but not in the newspapers, that a large force, say 50 to 60 thousand from the Potomac Army is embarking at Washington for an expedition down the Potomac. It is surmised that it is bound for Norfolk or the James River to attack the rebels in the rear and capture Richmond. 
So strong an appetite have we now for war news that the public is disappointed if we have not at least one good battle a day. Yesterday we hear there was a smart skirmish betw. the Rebels and Union forces near Winchester when, as usual in these days, the Fed. forces claim the victory with the capture of many men and some cannons. In spite of all our successes recently, I can but ask: if we conquer, can we win back the good will of the southern people? This is the most difficult question to answer, the most difficult thing to affect. 
Tuesday March 25, 1862. Mod. weather. The persons invited to attend our examinations at the close of the session next week are Rev. Jacob VanVechten D. D., Albany; Prof. David Murray, Prin. Albany Acad.; Rev. Jos. E. King, Prin of Fort Edw. Inst[itute]. They all write that they will come. 
Wednesday March 26, 1862. Classes of students in College have a certain collective character often times quite marked. Such has the present Sophomore class. They are still boys -.more frivolous than many a freshmen class on its first entrance. A more uncomfortable class to the teacher has not been in College many a year. Moreover, it has a large share of do-nothings and a small amount of talent. 
Thursdfay March 27, 1862. Mild day. No signs of ice moving. No victories, no fights since Sunday --but the rumors of preparations [for] great battles to come. Oh! when will this dreadful strife cease, making us the reproach of the whole world. 
Friday March 28, 1862. This evening held our usual Fae. meeting to arrange for examination next week. Some private conversation among the Fae. about Prof. Lewis' recitations. He is so deaf and nervous that mischeivous students take ad.vantage of his infirmities to act unruly and annoy him in various ways. The question is, How to avoid the trouble. College is not able to pension off any more supernumeraries and hire others in their places, and yet it seems almost impossible to get along as we have done. 
Saturday march 29, 1862. This P. M. to Albany to take my yearly report to the Legislature, but it adjourned over to Monday. Left my report in the hands of one of the assistant clerks, who promised to deliver it on Monday. Saw Joel Munsell, the printer, a very worthy man, compiler of many books which he has printed at a loss, particularly his annals of Albany. Strange that so large a city should not pay even the cost of printing so valuable historical treasures. 
Sunday March 30, 1862. Bad cold, and at home all day with wife. This evening a snow storm accompanied with sharp lightening and thunder. 
Monday March 31, 1862. Thawing moderately --wind south with some snow. Began examinations and finished Fresh. and 
Soph. classes. Rev. Dr. Van Vechten present --no others. 
Edw. Magoun, my nephew, left for home tonight. 
Tuesday April 1, 1862. Warmest day of the spring --snow goes, water runs, and soon our streets will be dry. Examinations continue --the Juniors were finished to-day. Only Prof. Murray, Prin. of Albany Acad., was present as Examiner. 
Wednesday April 2, 1862. Wind south with prospect of rain. Examinations of Seniors finished today. Rev. Jos. E. King, Prin. of Fort Edwd. Institute, present as Examiner today. Much talk among Fae. as to what we shall do with the Greek department next session and hereafter in view of Dr. Lewis deafness and ill health. The general impression is that he must relinquish a part of his salary to pay for a tutor to assist him. Saw Dr. Backus, talked with him about Prof. Peisner's absence from his examinations. Dr. B. said the President (Hickok) should have forbidden it. Dr. H. then came in, and said he felt embar.rassed at the time with another matter and hastily gave assent to his going, but should do so no more. 
Talked with Dr. H. also abt. the almost constant absence of the Fae. from the examinations altho' they had volunteered to be present. He says it is an evil that must not be. This constant shirking of the Fae. from duties so obviously incumbent upon them is a sad and discouraging sign. 
Thursday April 3, 1862. Pleasant day. Old Mrs. Humphrey, aged 77, Dr Nott's old housekeeper. is quite low and not expected to live: She has been in his family 30 or 40 years. First day of our short vacation of 3 weeks. 
Friday April 4, 1862. Fine cool day. Ice started in the Mohawk above the city today and is slow[ly] moving down. Went to Albany this P. M. --spent most of the time in the State Library upon Mass. Col. Records. Back at 7 o'clock. Rode beside Frank Potter, who is employed on the Central R. Rd business. He says Gil L. Wilsons personal affairs were in a very bad state & that their state probably led to his suicide. Being executor of Jno. C. Spencer's estate, he used a large portion of it in some of his stock and r[eal] estate speculations and lost it all. Potter thinks him an honest man but careless .. 
Saturday April 5, 1862. Still get encouraging answers from all with whom I speak about starting a historical society for Schenectady; yet few I presume will be real working members --it is only one out of a thousand who has real antiquarian tastes and is willing to spend a little money and time in that direction. Many promises but small fulfilment. Besides, even those who would be glad to do something have but a crude notion of what is needed to constitute real historical facts of value; most men are satisfied with mere gossip and floating traditions 
Sunday April 6, 1862. At Bapt. Ch. in the morning, Rev. Mr. Day preached and administered the Communion. 
Monday April 7, 1862. All day getting ready for a trip to New York, and started at 3.35 P.M. and arrived at St. Nicholas Hotel at 10.50 ---a weary ride. The first person I met in the hotel was Wm. C. Givens of Schen., who tells me he has been here six weeks. 
New York Tuesday April 8, 1862. Cold east wind with scattering snow, all day. Did not go over to Hunter Point. 1. Visited several photograph shops anad selected a small parcel of photographs of graduates of Un. Coll. 2. Called upon Wm Libbey, my cousin --A. T. Stewart's right hand man in his great store, bought a few articles for wife and others. 3. Called at Stearn's fountain.pen room to get my two pens repaired. 4. Called at Hosford & Ketchams, 57 and 59 William St. and gave an order for pamphlet cases, paper &c. for U. C. 5. To Manhattan Bank and got the Union College dividend for Feb. ($51.02). 6. Spent an hour with Hollingsworth, 55 Walker St., who deals in old periodicals and fills up broken sets. 7. Called on Aug. Sexton, 5 Maiden Lane. 8. At 6 o'clock P. M. back to St. Nie. to dinner Wed. 
Hunter Pt., L. I. [Wednesday] April. 9, 1862. Spent all day at H. Pt. with Mr. Crane and Anable, the former our superintendent, the latter our bookkeeper and accountant. Mr. C., now more than 72 yrs. old, intends to retire on the 1st [of] May from all active duties. Anable will probably take his place as superintendent, under the College Authorities. Sales are light, and the prospect is altogether poor for present income. 
Back to hotel at 6 o'clock In the evening, heard Capt. Williams account of the taking of the Whale, at Hope Chapel -.a novel subject and rather entertaining. 
N. Y. and H. Pt. Thursday April 10, 1862. First sun shine the 3 days. Snow 8 to 10 in. deep this morning: Horrible walking before noon. To H. Pt. till noon then back to the city and : 1. Called at the Receiver of taxes and paid taxes on Sullivan lots belonging to College. 2. Up to Bouton & Co's bookstore, 481 Broadway, keeps second.hand English books, some very good. 
Brooklyn and N. Y. Friday A[pril] 11, 1862. Fine sunshiny day. 1. To Brooklyn and paid 10 Ds. to P. S. Crooke on accountof the foreclosure suit of 
U. C. vs. P. Faym .-This is nearly half a days journey. 2. Called and chatted with F. J. Hosford, wife's cousin at 57William St. 3. Called at Beckels Bros., Maiden Lane and bought stereoscope and pictures for Jno. and Wm. 4. Called at A. T. Stewarts and bought stockings for self aand a bandanna handkerchf. for Fa[ther]. 5. Dined at St. Nie. at 2 o'clock. 
6. 3 to 5. At Bouton's bookstore, 481 Broadway, looking at his books. 7. 5. Started from Canal St. by Hudson R. R. for home, where arrived at 12 Midnt. and found all well. 
Saturday April 12, 1862. Fine day Since my absence old Mrs. Humphrey, Dr. Nott's housekeeper died (on Tues.); she has been at the head of the Dr's. kitchen for a great many yrs. and besides acted as his steward. They say she was 77 yrs. old. 
Sunday April 13, 1862. Fine day. At home all day with wife. 
Monday April; 14, 1862. Fine warm day. Met Mrs. Judge Paige in the street and talked an hour with her on the antiquities of Schen., in which she is greatly interested. Among other things she showed me a painting of the old stone church which till 1814 stood in Church street. This was originally painted by Giles H. Yates and has been often copied. This copy was made by Sexton, our native portraite painter. She lends it for me to take a copy. Went to photographer and bespoke a photo-graph of Old Claushe Vedder who d[ied] last wk. at the age of 100 yrs. and odd mos. This represents him sitting in front of his little stone hut (fort, it is called) with his guns and other implements about him. Dr. Nott's nurse, Ann Carr, says he was much affected. by Mrs. Humphreys death, and that his legs are swelling and that he will not linger long after Mrs. H. 
Un. College and Albany. Tuesday April 15, 1862. Beautiful weather. Went to Albany at 
9.45 A. M. to look at a lithographic press at C. Knickerbocker's and if it looks right to purchase it for College. Spent several hours in his printing shop witnessing the various movements of the presses &c. and finally purchased a press, tympan, scraper, lithog. stone and zinc plate, including cartage to R. Road, for $30.75. 
Spent several hours in the State IJbrary looking over old mss. relating to Schen. Among others, a petition of the inhabitants of Schen. in 1702, and an ancient Charter. Copied 9 pp. of names of retailers of goods and liquors in Schen. Co. in 1813 -16. Home at 6 o'clock. 
Wednesday April 16, 1862. Warmest day of the season. The Mohawk is rising rapidly and is already over its banks. 
Called upon Dr. and Mrs. Nott; found him lying upon the lounge apparently quite feeble; he said but little. He fails slowly but perceptibly. 
Thursday April 17, 1862. Very warm day. The Mohawk has not been so high for years. "Frog alley" --Washington St., south end --is quite under water and people only get to and from their houses by boats. Saw Dr. Seelye, Pastor of Dutch Ch., and borrowed of him the "Doop Boecks" of the Ch. to copy --they are in Dutch. 
[Gap from April 17, 1862 to July 6, 1862] 
Vacation Sunday July 6, 1862. Hottest day of the season. Thus far we have had but little hot weather this season. At home all day with wife. 
Monday July 7, 1862. More than two months since I began to copy the Dutch Ch. Records and have so closely followed it up that I have left no time for this Diary. Thus far I have copied the whole of the first book found beginning 1728 and ending about 1775, consisting of nearly 500 pages. It is mostly filled with the baptisms of children, with names of parents and sponsors. The marriages and churchá members are also in the same book. There were three ministers during this period, viz. Reynhard Erickzon, Cornelius Van Santvoord and Barent Vrooman, the last continuing until about 1784, altho' his records for the last 10 years are quite defective. 
He appears to have been a most stupidly careless man or else an ignoramus. He never spells a name twice alike if he can help it; in recording his own marriage he misspels his wife's name. He writes a great, sprawling heavy hand, like a plough.jogger. Dr. Van Santvoord wrote a little, neat, uniform hand easy to read showing both his education and habits. I have not yet found any records prior to 1728 save a few scraps of paper andam doubtful whether there is anything more. The records are in Dutch until nearly 1800. 
Another year of College life is nearly ended and the many matters preliminary to Comm 't. are in busy preparation. After some opposition, we have obtained permission to occupy the Pres. Ch. for our anniversary exercises. We have been refused two years, but it at last began to be felt that a house too pretty to be used for such purposes is not a useful or desirable thing and the majority concluded [to] accede to the pressure upon them. 
My class in Botany has been a good one. Besides the daily recitation, I have when the weather would allow gone out for the gathering of plants with them after 6 o'clock P. M 
Tuesdayt July 8, 1862. Very smoky for many days --hot and unpleasant. 
Actg. Pres. Hickok called a Faculty meeting this evening to discuss a disgraceful exhibition made last evening by 8 or 10 students who showed themselves in front of college about 1 o'clock in their shirts alone. They called themselves the "Shirt.tail Brigade" and, after a series of silly performances and noise, retired. So indecent an exhibition, it was thought, should be noticed and if possible stopped. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edmonds of Utica called this P. M. They are on their way to Saratoga Spgs. 
Son John, having graduated at Union school, is now ready to enter the freshman class of College. A momentous step for a boy! --for good or for evil. May a kind Providence watch over and guide him! 
Wednesday July 9, 1862. All day upon my report for the year to the Trustees, a tedious matter. 
Last 25 June Dr. Nott entered his 90th year. That morning, tho' it rained, he for the first time during the year went into Chapel and said a few words to the students. He's quite feeble; one leg is much swollen. 
Thursday July 10, 1862. Many very smoky days. Where this smoke comes from is a matter of question. 
Much rowdyism towards the close of the session, by a few bad fellows in College. They need a heavy hand laid upon them, but so perfectly inefficient is our "section officers" that there are little hopes of any thing being done. 
Dr. Backus proposes to issue tickets for Comm't. Exercises in the Church, a project of doubtful propriety. Any change upon old customs in such a place as Schen. makes much talk and bad feeling. 
"Botanising" this evening with a part of my class, about "Sanders Lake" and on its island. Good success. These are pleasant little jaunts and profitable to the class. 
L. J. Darwin of '40 called today --a Lawyer of Watertown, --about to send a son to College. 
[Gap from July 10, 1862 to January 1, 1863]
