 
1863 January 1, 1863. A new year having commenced, it is well to review the past. 
When we began the year 1862, war was at its height and, according to political prophecies, would be closed before the 4th of July and a lasting peace restored to a united country: All this has failed, and we are as far, apparently, from peace as we were a year since. Slaughter and carnage, disease and death, have carried off thousands of our youths; the land is loaded with debt, and taxation begins to reach all classes --and where, it may be asked, will it all end? God the Disposer only knows: "Put not your trust in Princes," the Book says. Put not your trust in Parties, we may also say, for they all fail. This day, according to his promise the President proclaims emancipa tion to the Rebels slaves --the most important step yet taken by the Government these 80 years. No matter whether immediately practicable or not, it commits the Government to the side of Freedom, it places us right with all good men and well-wishers, it can but win the approbation of a just Heaven in our terrible conflict. As to the result of our conflict: from the beginning I have had but one opinion on certain points. 1. I have said to all my friends if the conflict continues 2 years, Emancipation will be proclaimed to the slave; it has come. 2. I have also felt and still feel that we are fighting not to conquer theá entire south but practically for a boundary. I am more con.firmed than ever in this belief. Probably by mediation and treaty we shall before the year is out agree to allow a certain portion of the States to become a seperate nation. The great difficulty seems to be in fixing the boundaries between the two sections. 
Friday January 2, 1863. The whole Mississippi Valley from mouth to source must belong to one people --nature has decreed that. Instead of being a natural boundary, that river is a natural chain binding the state[s] adjacent together. There is but one natural boundary north and south, and that is the Alleghany Mountains. East and west we have none. 
Wednesday night and Thursday morn'g., Dr. Nott was again attacked with paralysis of the left side. He is now quite helpless and apparently near his end. Poor old man! Life is no longer desirable to him or to his friends. 
Saturday Duly] 3, 1862. For more than a month we have had unexampled fine weather with[out] snow or any very cold. [weather]. The ground now is quite bare. 
The College session begins today. We expect a diminished number during the war, and little prosperity in our finances. 
Faculty meeting last evening with usual round of business. 
Sunday, January 4, 1863. Wind south with prospects of rain. To Bapt. Ch. in morning at our Communion season. 
Dr. Nott continues still quite feeble, without much change for better or worse. 
The Presidents Proclamation has at last appeared in the papers and is short, pointed and emphatic. May God prosper the right, and bring us out of our trials into an enlarged freedom, humility, and sorrow for our national sins. 
Individuals are punished in the next world for their sins, nations in this. Hence God deals in judgement often with them, and chastises them sore until they acknowledge his laws, and yeild up their pride and vainglory. So is [He dealing with us now. When He has by reverses and losses, by defeat and death, caused His power and justice to be felt, then he will cease and remove our scourge from us. May light soon shine out [of] our darkness. 
Monday January 5, 1863. Beautiful spring day, no snow and bu little frost in the ground. My recitations are two --10 and 11' o'clock, Algebra, Sophomore Class. 
Dr. Nott still remains about the same, if anything a little better. 
For more than 9 months I have been engaged upon the ancient records of Dutch Ch. here and in gathering facts which may be of use in a historical point of view. In order to do so to advantage I have been obliged to learn the Dutch language, for all early papers are in that tongue. The more I know it, the better I am pleased with it, and it is a shame that not one of the Dutch descendants of Schen. can read their mother tongue 
Tuesday January 6, 1863. Warm rain. How things go by imitation may be seen in the rage for skating, now common among our young ladies as well as young men. This, I think, is the third winter that the fever has prevailed and there seems no abatement in any part of the country. The favorite places for this amusement are called skating parks. A low place easily flowed is chosen, dikes and dams are thrown up and in some cases several acres are flowed with water and frozen the first cold spell. Our skating place is on the Coehorne Creek just a.bove its junction with the Central R. R. --between that and Centre St. (continued) 
Dr. Nott still holds on to life with great tenacity. There is not much change in him today for better or for worse. 
Wednesday January 7, 1863. Change. Wind to north, hard blow and cold. Dr. N. still continues about as usual. 
The new Dutch Church commenced in early spring --or rather last fall --has now been carried up: roof put on and the inside work well carried forward so that in the spring it can be opened for worship. The style of it is quite different from that of our usual Ch. edifices, more in accordance with the ancient Ecclesiastical Buildings. The people compare it to a Dutch barn --all roof; still it will doubtless be a finer building than any we have this side of New York. The tower alone is unfinished --all of stone but the spire. 
Thursday January 8, 1863. Clear and cold --no snow. My two recitations at 10 and 11 A. M. are in Algebra and include the whole Sophomore class. 
Opposite my house a new street has been opened this fall from Union to Liberty Street 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
One new house on the opp. side of Union St. has been built this fall: Taylor Jones 
Our vacation work for the servants about College last month was digging down the side of "Prospect Hill, so. of the College entrance, for the purpose of carrying Liberty Street thro' the Hill. Thus, 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
Much of this dirt dug out of the Hill is put into a deep hole or gully in Terrace St. opp. the Coll. entrance. á 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
Friday January 9, 1863. Winds., indications of snow or rain. Edw. Potter (Bp. Alonzo's's son), archt. of the new Dutch Ch., was at Treas. Office examing Audubons Birds for some designs to be carved upon a screen in the consistory room, or rather betw: the Ch and Consistory. The Ch. is L-shaped, thus: 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
"A. B." is the screen to be so arranged as to be opened at pleas.ure and the Consistory added to the Church. 
E. P. 's designs to represent the 12 months by familiar natural objects, such as birds and plants. 
Borrowed 650 Dolls. for Chas. Ely of N. Y. He and his family are large owners of the Hunter Pt. property but, becoming involved with Mr. Crane his partner, they both made a sort of failure. He is now striving to get his affairs straightened out. 
Saturday january 10, 1863. Eight o'clock to Albany to see the Land Commrs. about renewing the water grant at Hunter's Pt. Finding the matter referred to the Attorney General Dickinson, I called to explain and get his views as to the form of the resolution. That shown him he approved of and will recom.mend to the Commrs. when they meet, which will probably be within one week. Home by 10 o'clock train. 
The exhibition of human nature in its unlovely forms --excessive selfishness, in a word, hoggishness --is not confined to the ignorant and rude peoples. I am sorry to say that the opposite classes often show just as much perversity. Hence one has to infer that we are all made of the same clay and that not of the finest [in] quality. My experience with professors of College leads me to this conclusion. I think I have known some who wouldnt forgo a selfish gratification if it would save the College from sinking; they would not yeild an unimportant point of self-love if by not doing so would cost the. College $100. I have seen something of this kind today. 
Sunday January 11, 1863. Pouring rain last night, this morning glare ice. Now and then a solitary sleigh passes, but mostly carriages. At home all day with wife. 
Monday January 12, 1863. Mild, thawing. Dr. Nott is not so well today --rheumatic pains. Opened Library twice: 8 1/2 to 9 1/2 and 2 1/2 to 3 1/2. 
Tuesday January 13, 1863. Beautiful day, springlike without snow. At our late faculty meetings the matter of revising our course of studies and requirements for entrance has been much talked of and. a committee has been at work carrying out this much-needed reform. We find that our prescribed requirements are much below what they should be and the faculty will doubtless ask the Trustees to increase the amount of studies. We find too that our Math. and Phys. studies in Coll. course exceed our course of languages and belles lettres studies; these also will be reformed if the recommendations of the.faculty are heeded. Dr. Nott is not so well today --much troubled with rheumatic pains and nervousness. 
Wednesday January 14, 1863. A little snow last night and much rain to day. Night before last Dr. Notts old ice house was burned a second time. Some years since, it was a building 20 feet high standing in the grove east of S. Coll. and was burned down to within ten feet of the ground, it being then winter and the house full of ice. B,eing roofed anew, it lasted untill last Mond. night, when it was set on fire again and, being empty, burned to the cellar. [ 
DRAWINGHERE] 
Thursday January 15, 1863. Rain all day. The report from Dr. Nott is not so encouraging. He is both nervous and rheumatic, sleeps little and is restless. 
Discussed with the V. Pres. Hickok the new course of study preparatory to its presentation to the Fae. meeting tomorrow. 
As to the respects of the war and the country generally: they are gloomy in the extreme. The worst feature of all is the evident division of sentiment at the North as to measures and means. This I have long foreseen and feared. We cannot be saved by a party. If there be not substantial unity, then let us make peace on the best possible terms with the rebels and retire from the contest. I must say, as I have said before, I cannot see the end of this war; except distress and loss, all is dark and inscrutable. The slave must go free sooner or later, in spite of all opposition North or South. The public conscience of the world is against the monster crime and it must die. 
Friday January 16, 1863. Rain all night and day till 3 o'clock P. 
M.when wind wheeled round into the north. 
Faculty Meeting, to talk over the revised course of studies. After much discussion, got thro' the requirements for admission, by adding something to all three departments -.Greek, Latin, and Math. This revision will lead to a raising of our course of studies, regarding which the faculty are unanimous. During Dr. Notts administration, nothing of the kind could ever be done; he would allow of no changes except what were made by himself and usually he wasá in favor of making the entrance to College easier rather than harder He was more in favor of having a large no. of students than in having good scholars. His ideas of scholarship were exceedingly low and crude. 
Saturday January 17, 1863. High wind from north -very cold 
and boisterous. From both Mohawk and Hudson rivers, the ice 
passed out yesterday. Water high over the "Flats." 
Dr. Nott remains about as he has done for some days past --not mending, but on the whole losing ground, I should think. All day in Tr. Office writing letters &c. 
Sunday January 18, 1863. Cold night and day; but no snow. At home all day with wife. Read the "religious papers" N. Y. Obs[erver], Independent and N. Y. Examiner, and Baxter's "Roepstem" i.e. "Baxters Call" to the unconverted, in Dutch. I have now progressed so far in it as to be able to read it with tolerable ease. 
Monday January 19, 1863. This is the month of church fairs. I think nearly every congregation has had or is to have one this mo. Last week the 1st. Dutch held theirs every evening in the week at "Anthony's Hall," corner of Fe[rry and Liberty Streets. From what I can learn much of their gains arise from petty lotteries of various articles. Among these was a beautiful worked carriage blanket of Berlin Wool, valued at one hundred dolls. This was drawn by Mr. C. Vibbard. There is also an entrance fee of 10 cts, and various refreshments for a consideration. 
Tuesday January 20, 1863. All the town goes and crowd the room full. The young ladies solicit purchasers, sell tickets, draw lotteries, furnish oysters, coffee and various other eatables, and thus the money is collected. Many objectionable practices prevail perhaps, but the means seem to be sanctified by the end --the good of the church. 
With our outdoor overseer Picket thro' the groves south of College marking trees to be removed. 
Dr. Nott is evidently losing ground. Mrs. N. speaks discouragingly of his case. 
Wednesday January 21, 1863. Called to Dr. Backus as one of the Finance Comm. about (1.) The sale of lots at Hunter Point at half-price for church purposes. The Episcopalians have made application for three at that rate. Dr. B. fears that as Trustees it would be a bad precident to do so, that they might be obliged to do the same for a dozen Chh. and that by so doing their trust would be violated. 
(2) 
Sending Mrs. Campfield of Scotia 150$ on her ho[use] abd lot in which Coll. has a B[ond] and M[ortgage] of 600$ --to which he assented. 

(
3) About discipline in College, for which he has not much respect (neither have I), says Coll. is losing in credit by its disregard of the manners and morals of students, that the disciplinary part of our students education costs altogether more money than it is worth, thinks section officers do not do their duties as they should and for which they are paid. 

(
4) About Chane. Walworth, who is crazy on Genealogical matters. 

(5) Sale of Vale to Vale Cemetery Assoc. 

(6) 
About Dr. N., whom he saw this afternoon, and says is failing. 


Thursday January 22, 1863. Two or 3 inches only of snow which today melted and left the ground bare again. This P. M., with Prof. Jackson and Mr. Picket, visited the woods back and east of Colleges to direct in the cutting of wood 
Friday January 23, 1863. Warm, wet and muddy. Called to ask about Dr. Nott. Mrs. N. gives but little encouragement. Last night he was attacked with diarrhea --his old complaint. His physician Swits --homeopath --does not think he will live long. 
Caleb Crumb, who grad. at U. C. 22 yrs. ago, has returned to S[chen.] and has placed two sons in College. He came last from Bloomfield, Mo. --the s. e. corner of the State -the most rabidly rebellious hole in it. There for some years he had a high school and a successful one, till the rebellion broke out. Then after much trouble -many threats -some attempts at ass[as]ination he suddenly left last fall to avoid violence threatened. He came here because his sons were in Coll. 
Saturday January 24, 1863. Fine spring day, thawing, muddy. In foren~on to town, called upon Judge Paige to talk over matters of business. 
(
1) of the purchase of Preferred Certif of Trust on Hunter Pt. I told him I had an offer of them at 100 with the 15% int. accrued. _____ had offered 90. He was rather inclined to buy. 

(2) 
The suit [of] Un. Coll. vs. Mohawk Bank respecting tax dividends. We agreed if the Bank would not compromise U. C must appeal. 

(3) Loan of $150 to Rachel Campfield. He assented to it. 

(
4) His fees as councillor in the above case of U. C. vs. M. B., required say $150 on acct. I promised to pay it next week. 

(5) 
Gave me another bill ag[ains]t the Hunter Point Trust for professional services last year and half. $350. 

(6) Loaned the 150 Ds. above mentioned to Mrs. C. 

P. 
M. All [day] time in office. 


Sunday January 25, 1863. At home all day with wife. Read among other things the "Verzamelaar," a Dutch religious paper printed at Holland, Mich, and sent to College Library by Rev. Ph. Phelps. 
Monday January 26, 1863. Rain again this P. M., every thing all afloat -no snow abd but little ice. 
8 1/2 to 9 1/2 in Library; 10. to 12 rec. in Algebra, Sopha. class, many of whom know-but little about it; 2 1/2 to 3 1/2, opened the Library again. 
Our State party divisions have reached a disgraceful point --nearly a month our Legislature have done nothing but ballot for a speaker amid quarreling AND disorder humiliating to every well-lover of the state. Whilst our Mother (the nation) is sick AND nigh Unto death, her children in the next room are quarreling like theives and pickpockets over her effects. Sad state of things! 
Dr. N. no better. 
Tuesday January 27, 1863. JRain all night and snow and sleet all day. Walking shocking --mud, snow, and water mixed. Weather makes one blue, especially when aided by the sad state of our country. 
Wednesday January 25, 1863. Moderate weather: mud and snow mixed. 
P. M. Called upon Dr. Backus relative to a meeting of the Resident Trustees to take place tomorrow. This I suppose is to prepare for calling a new professor --Clark of Univ. of Vt., to 
the Chair of Rhetoric. 
Stepped into the new Dutch Church: putting in the stained glass windows; these are given by the diff. families of the congregation and bear their names. A fine house but some think too gaudy. 
Met Henry Ramsay in the Ch. He desired to know the price of the Stacks lot, head of State St., now owned by College. 7c. 
Called on Mrs. Jackson with wife where found Mrs. 
Chesbro, her sister .
Thursday January 29, 1863. Six in. snow last night, today 
blustering but not cold. 
P. M. 4 o'clock. At Dr. Backus' study: Dr. Backus, Judge A. C. Paige, Acting Pres. Hickok and self. 
The object of this meeting was to confer about the propriety of calling Prof. Clark of Vermont University to the Chair of Logic and Rhetoric in Union Coll~ge. 
Dr Backus read a letter from a friend in N. Y. who had conferred with Prof. Shedd about the matter. Prof. S. does not want Prof. Clark to leave the Univ. of Vt. and hence throws discouraging obstacles in the way of our calling him --says Prof. C. is not adapted to the chair of Logic. Dr Hickok had another letter directly from Prof. Shedd in áwhich he asks him to let Prof C. remain where he is. 
The only question discussed was what shall be the purport of the letter to Prof. C. and it was agreed that Act. Pres. 
H. should write and say that the Fin. Com. authorized him to offer to him (Prof. C.) the Prorp. with the understanding that he might be called on to teach collat[t]eral branches such as Eng. Hist., Quintil., Longinus, Cicero De or: &c. and next week or as soon as his answer is received the Fin. Committee will give a formal call. 
Friday January 30, 1863. Bright day,snow melting, sleighs flying merrily in the st[reets]. 
Prof. L'Amoreux takes Mr. Peissner's place as teacher of languages (Mod.) during his abs. in the Army. The arrangement for salary was as follows: 750 Ds. certainly and 1000 Ds. if in all respects he suits the Coll. authorities Prof. L'A., for the purpose of helping his fa[ther] out of finan: difficulties, desires the latter sum now to be fixed upon and the Res: Trustees agree to lay the matter before the Fin. Com: at their next meeting; but in the mean time allow me to pay him his next quarters sal. as tho' such arrangement were made. 
Went to Scotia to see one of the Trustees of Glenville 
about a little Mort[gage] they hold against Cornelia Rulapagh 
Mrs. Nott's cook. 
Saturday January 31, 1863. Beautiful warm day -snow goes fast. Busy day --last day of the quarter when salaries are to be paid. Books balanced, checks drawn &c. All day in office at work. 
Sunday February 1. 1863. Fine day. At home with wife and a cold. Read D'Aubigne's Hist Ref. in Low Dutch. 
Monday February 2, 1863. Fine winter day, not cold, thawing, some sleighing, thin. Rec. and Library took the whole day. To Judge Paiges off. on call to fix price of the "Vale" for Cemetery Assoc., called it worth $200 pr. ac[re]. There came P. Dorsh, who spoil[ed an hour in rehearsing his experience at Fort Monroe last year 
Tuesday February 3, 1863. Cold winter day. All afternoon upon contracts for Hunter Point. 
Our great Civil War flags in all except the West. We have never had less hope of bringing it to a close upon our [own?] terms. On neither side is there a general who can manoeuvre an attacking Army of 100,000 men. A moderate man --officer of fair education --can post a 1,000,000 in entrenchments to resist attack; that is quite another thing. Our armies are too large for our generals, except in defence. 
Secondly. We have more party feeling than patriotism. Our leaders are politicians not patriots. 
Thirdly. Slavery, the cause of the war, is loved by too many men of the North as well as at the South. They look upon it as too sacred to be toutched even in the defence of our govern ment. Perish government but save the Institution! 
Wednesday February 4, 1863. Intensely cold today --7 á below zero this morning 
This P. M. in conference with Judges Paige and Potter respecting the suit U. C. vs. Moh. Bk for back tax dividends. The Bk. deny the right of Coll. to draw them; College claims them at least for 6 yrs. from time of beginning suit. 
Thursday February 5, 1863. Miserably cold day. Thermom. 
-12 á this morning! This P. M. some snow, wind e. 
I have had a case of conscience which, I think, I have decided justly. Dr. H. and others directed me, or rather I offered to purchase of Samuel W. Bates of Boston 8 or 10 Preferred Certif. of Trust in the Hunter Pt. Trust. I offered him 90% for them, he offered to sell at 100%. Finally I offered 95% andto day he writes his acceptance; but in the meantime, our ag[en]t at Hunter Pt. writes that he has a prospect of selling a block for cash enough to pay the interest on these certif: in which case they will be much enhanced in value, and worth more than 95%. Shall I keep this knowledge to myself or impart it to Mr. Bates before he sells! I concluded that he should know it, altho' when I made the offer and he accepted it, we both had no knowledge of the state of the case. For I am not only the agent of Union College in the management of the Hunter Point Trust but of all the other proprietors also and should not withhold any proper information from them, much less try to overreach them by my superior information. I wrote therefore on the 3d just what Anable had written about the sale that he might make the sale if at all with full knowledge. 
Friday February 6, 1863. Snow last night, rain all day. Dr. Hickok tells me that Prof. Clarke of Vt. Univ. has accepted the Chair of Rhetoric at U. C. and that Prof. Newman has handed in his resignation to [be] take effect at Comm't. It cannot be that Prof. L[ewis], our Prof. of Greek can much longer hold his place with[out] assistance. His learning and talents are undoubted but he is as deaf as a log and nervous and irritable as a flea. He gets on sadly with young men whose boyishness he cannot get along with. 
Saturday February 7, 1863. Mild day, thawing. Col. Peissner returned from the Rappahannock today on leave; he is colo. of 119th Reg., is hale and hearty. 
Called to enquire about Dr. Nott, saw Mrs. N. who speaks not encouragingly of him; he gains none, cannot stand or walk. one side being perfectly paralysed. 
Sunday February 8, 1863. Fine bright day. At home all day with wife. 
Monday February 9, 1863. Last Friday Col[l]o. Peissner 
returned on a short furlough, looks well and hearty. 
Dr. Backus called a moment in reference to a meeting of the Finance Comm. Says he has had three dizzy spels lately and wonders if he is getting old. 
Tuesday February 10, 1863. Windy but not cold, thawing. 
Examinations for deficiencies this evening. 
Wednesday February 11, 1863. Fine mild day. The sleighing 
about gone. 
Thursday February 12, 1863. Snow, 6 in., light, but good.for sleighing. 
As Treasurer, the following transaction: Received of Burton G. Morss, of Gilboa 1166 40/100 Dolls. to satisfy the Mortg[age]of Reed, Paige, Potter &c. held by Union College. The bond, however, is not given up but has been sued and judgement obtained on the same. Tho' really the claim of Coll. is satisfied, the judgement on the Bond is not, but is to be kept alive for the benefit of A. C. Paige, one of its signers, for the purpose of making Herman Reed,, another bondsman, pay his share of the am't of the debts of the Company, which he de.clines to do. To favor this design I must therefore hand over the money to A. C. P[aige], who applies the same to the debts of the Company, giving Coll. his note as collatteral security for the payment of the Bond to U. C. 
Friday February 13, 1863. Fine winter day. Today received from S. W. Bates of Boston 8 certif. of ownership in the Hunter & Green Pt. property which I have bought for Judge Paige (2) and Dr. Hickok (6) at par, and 15% accrued int[ersat] --a very fair sale for them as, when paid, they get the accrued int. as a bonus --150 Ds. on each bond. 
The resignation of Prof. Newman is getting noised about and with the Faculty creates some feeling not so much on acct. of Newmans great worth to College as for the occasion,, in part at least, of his leaving --the unfavorable reports made originating mainly, tis said, in evil reports made by two of the fac., J[ackson] and F[oster]. Doubtless they have poisoned the minds of some the Trustees and others against him, and this fact has caused some feeling, because it is not considered just that any member of the fac. should slander a brother and thus 
undermine his reputation outside of College walls. 
Saturday February 14, 1863. Fine cold winter day. Business with Judge Paige in the morning. 
Sunday February 15, 1863. At home all day with wife 
Monday February 16, 1863. Fair winter weather. Yesterday the warm sun carried away most of the little snow lift. 10 -12 Rec. in Algebra, a hard study to teach. 8 1/2 to 9 1/2 and 2 1/2 to 4 in Library. 
Tuesday Feberuary 17, 1863. Fine day. Called on Mr. and Mrs. 
P. Ryley Toll, who have moved into town from their place in Glenville, occupying the house of the late Judge John C. Wright. 
Wednesdayb February 18, 1863. Fine melting day. Today paid (as Treasurer) the Bond and Mort[gage] of A. 0. Clute upon the lot on west side of "Prospect Hill." 2500 Ds. and int. This lot required some examinaUon as to title. Isaac Quackenbos left it to his son, John Q,, who left it to his only dau[ghter] Maria who mar[ried] A. O.Clute. Clute and Maria agreed to leave their joint prop. to the survivor (having no ch[ildren]) --hence they conveyed all to Hen. Fuller who conveyed it back to Clute & wife jointly. This conveyance was virtually for the survivor, who was Clute. He conveyed this lot to Nie. Swits (for U. Coll.) and Swits conv: to U. Coll., subject to a mort[gage] to Clute of 2500 Ds., which I have paid today. 
Thursday February 19, 1863. Rainy day. Dr. H. say that Moses Viney, Dr. N's black servant, is to have in addition to his wages, $1000 on the death of Dr. N. Mrs. N. enquired today whether Moses' ho[use] could be moved from its present site nearer to the Presidents' house. The House now stands in the garden so. of So Coll. thus: 
[DRAWINGHERE] 
She that that Dr. N. paid for the house himself in 1846. Tho' I did not say no, I felt sure she was wrong, for the Dr. was not accustomed to pay for such conveniences about Coll. for himself out of his own pocket tho' he thought and said he did. Prof J[ackson] called in Office to talk about Prof. Newmans resignation. He had heard that there was much trouble about it on the Hill among the Fae. --so he was told in town. I said I had not been cognizant of any such trouble, neither did I believe there was any trouble. 
Friday February 20, 1863. Mild day, water runs in quantities. 
Fae. meeting this even'g but nothing done. 
Saturday February 21, 1863. Cold windy day. A. M. Long conference with Cashr. Thompson of Mohawk Bank in regard to the suit now pending --U. C. vs. Moh. Bk. P. M. Made will for old Mrs. Elizabeth Jukes, wid[ow] of Dominie Jukes of Rotterdam, step mo[ther] of our teamsters wife, Cromantis. 
Sunday February 22, 1863. Cold day. At home all day with 
wife. 
Monday February 23, 1863. Clear and cold. Today I am 50 yrs. 
old. For all Gods mercies, good health, prosperous 
circumstances in a worldly view, and the hopes for the next 
world, may He be thanked with an overflowing heart! 
Tuesday February 24, 1863. Fine-winter day. P. M. with L. P. Hickock at Bk. He, thro' my negocia[tion] buys 6 and Judge P. 2 Pref. certif. of Trust of Hunter Pt. prop. from Sarni. W. Bates of Boston. Today I closed the business and sent on the money 5000 Ds. --3000 Ds having been before sent. 
I hear that Dr. Hickok's mother is dead and that he goes to Conn. to attend her funeral at once. 
Wednesday February 25, 1863. Fine day. Called upon Mrs.á Judge Paige with wife. She is a great collector of old things -.coins, newspapers, shin plasters &c .... Among other things spoke of a rare Am. coin stolen from her collection by some visitor &c. Called on the Misses Fuller and then visited the Dutch Ch. wh[ich] is fast reaching completion: the windows all in and many of the seats placed. The windows are all stained glass and are memorial and gift windows, the names being placed upon the lower edge. 
Thursday February 26, 1863. College Fast Day, rain all P.M. Mr. Bidwell of Method. Ch. Troy preached the best sermon we have had for many years (Bidwell, grad. at U.,C. a few yrs. since.) Of students in attendance on the sermon there were only 8 7 in Chapel, a discreditable thing for them and for Coll. generally. 
Friday February 27, 1863. Dr. Hickok, who went on Wed. to attend his Mothers funeral returned today. 
Saturday Februzary 28, 1863. Fine warm day. Acting Pres. H. called at the Tr. off. and held a long conversation on Professor Newman's resignation, which some of the Prof. advise him to withdraw whilst some of the Trustees oppose, being quite willing he should go. Pres. H. is afraid of a quarrel between them and disturbance in Coll. It certainly would not be wise to get up hard feelings betw. the fac. and Trustees, and Pres. H. desires to mollify the disturbed feelings of both sides. 
Sunday March 1. 1863. Snow all day. 
MondayMarch 2, 1863. Eight in. snow, warm sun and snow fast melting. 
News from sister-in-law Sarah Harvey at Syracuse that she is near her end with cancer of stomach. Many years she has been an invalid and spent all her parents living and has been in nothing benefitted. 
Tuesday March 3, 1863. Four in. more snow. A. M. Recitations 
P.M. Letters &c. 
Wednesday March 4, 1863. Cold and windy. P. M. to Judge Paige's office, who was absent in Albany. Stepped into the new Dutch Ch., which now approaches completion. 
Thursday March 5, 1863. Cold winter day. Called upon Judge Paige and Dr. Backus on College business. 
Friday March 6, 1863. Mild, wind so. and some snow. Dr. H. says Prof. Newman, who some weeks since sent in his resignation to the Finance Com., has withdrawn it at the request of the Fae. or at least some of them. The most unwise thing was to resign if he did not mean to do so. Having resigned and given out that he had done do, it is quite childish now to chan JJ.is mind [and] withdraw his resigna. Had he asked advice of the Fae. before the act, he would have been 
counseled to continue his Professorship, but this he did not do. 
Saturday March 7, 1863. More snow, furious storm. All day in office. A new proposition is now about to come before the Com. coun[ci?]l of the City --to allow the prop. held at east end of State Street to have a park there by widening the street. 
Sunday March 8, 1863. Snow nearly all day. The depth 
reaches say 15 in. --more than we have had before this year. 
Monday March 9, 1863. Snow again last night, 20 in. this morning. With Dr. Hickok at 4 o'clock to Judge Paiges office where met Dr Backus, to talk over business for the Finance Com. meeting in Alb[any]; draw resolutions &c. 
Tuesday March 10, 1863. Fine warm day, snow fast melting. 9 to 12 at Judge Paiges Office with him and Dr. Backus on part of the College, and Mr. Hunter, Jos. Van DeBogart, and Peter Dorsh on the part of Vale Cemetery. Subject of consultation: the purchase of the Vale property by the Cemetery Assoc. The only difference is that of price, they offering 1500 Ds, College on the contrary asking 3000 to 3400. No conclusion arrived at. 
P. M. 1.50 to Albany to hold a Finance Com. meeting -.met at C. B. Cochrane's office, adjourned to Sect. States office, where Prof N. G. Clarke of Burlington was appointed [Professor] of Rhetoric. 
Wednesday March 11, 1863. Fine warm day. Snow going-.bad walking. P.M. 3 o clock to Mr. Hunters office to talk over the matter of the Vale purchase. No conclusion. 
Thursday march 12, 1863. Cold and windy. This P. M. Dr. Backus told me a sad case of sickness. A Mrs. Sandford of his congregation, a widow with a family, is made insane by anxiety, watchfulness and fatigue in tending a sick daughter -.the latter a bright little girl of 10 is nigh unto death of the diphtheria and the poor mo[ther] cannot be allowed near her. 
Talked with Dr. B. about the Vale property, also about in.vesting 5000 Ds. in the Pref. Certif. of Trust of Hunter Pt. Both he and Judge Paige assented. 
Friday March 13, 1863. Cold and unpleasant. Our winter comes in March. Yesterday Dr. B. wished me to tell Prof C[handler] that in the matter of Prof Ntewman]'s resignation he was acting very officiously and had better not make himself so prominent. The truth is some of the Trustees are ádisaffected toward some of the Fae. and vice versa, and it is a pity that more cordiality does not exist. 
Satururday March 14, 1863. Windy and cool, sleighing good. 
1. 
To Mr. Mayor Hunter to see about Vale Cemetery purchase of the Vale. Nothing accomplished. 

2. 
Saw D. Cady Smith and James Fuller, School Comrs. &and recommended Mr. Crumb (Caleb) as a teacher in the school. 


á 3. Saw Mcchesney (Jno. G.), a rough specimen of a Lawyer, about purchase of part of the "Vale" adjoining his property. And home to dinner. 
P. M. Up to the woods e. of College where we are thin.ning out the pitch pines. 
Evening 5 o'clock Called on Mrs. P Riley Toll and her sister Mrs. Reed. 
Saturday March 15, 1863. Very cold nights --thus far Mar. has been the most wintry mo. of the season. To Bapt. Ch. in A.M. Rev. Mr. Day 
preached.  
Monday or rain. -The fac.  Marcare  h 16, now  1863. stirred  Still coabout  ld. the  Wind S.E. division  and proof the  spect of snow public  lands  

granted to the states by Congress for agricultural purposes. It seems, that an unfledged concern called the Peoples College to be situated at Ravanna asks very modestly for the whole sum and in view of this imprudent demand we are about to put in our claim for a share. Tomorrow Judge Paige, Prof Chandler and myself are to appear before the Committee of the Senate who have the matter in hand to state our case. We show what an Agri. Coll. needs, what U. C. has got and what she wants to complete an agricul[tural] course. 
Tuesday March 17, 1863. Moderate day. To Albany at 8 o'clock with Judge Paige and Professors Chandler and Gillespie to appear before the Senate Committee of Literature and state the claims of Union College to a share of the 1,000,000 of acres donated to the State by Congress for Literary purposes. Mr. Pruyn of Albany was the Chairman. Judge P. made some preliminary remarks after which our memorial was read by Prof C. in which we state what an agricul. Coll. needs --what Un. College has, and what she wants to make an efficient agricul. Coll. Dr. Browri of the "Peoples Coll" made some objections to our claim and advocated that of his institution. His principal objection was the clause in the law of Congr. making it necessary for the institution obtaining a grant of land to make agriculture and mechanic arts a "cheif object" of its instruction. Our memorial will be printed and put before the Legislature in that form. 
Wednesday March 18, 1863. Cool winter weather, good sleighing. Executed a deed for a block of land at Hunter Point at 28,000 Ds. cash. Saw Judge P. and Dr. Backus on various College matters. 
Dr. Nott quite sick of influenza. 
Thursday March 19, 1863. Cold winter weather. We have Jan. in March --we had Mar. in Jan. P~ M. Engaged in making out order of Examination for the close of the session. 2 hours to each seperate recitation, all to be finished within 4 days. 

Called upon Mrs. Gilbert whose husband lost a foot by climbing across a train of freight waggons upon the R. Road. She says he is about to sue the R. Road Co. for damage done his foot. 
Friday March 20, 1863. Cold winter weather. Faculty meeting to arrange course of Examinations. We now have two hours to ea[ch] study --4 days in all. 
Dr. Backus called to speak of Mr. Caleb Crumb as a teacher in the Union School. It seems that the matter of salary is the only obstacle to his employment. He asks $700 sal. ; the Board offer 600 
Ds. 
Saturday March 21, 1863. Wind So., prospect of rain. 
Sunday March 22, 1863. Fine day. At home with wife. 
Monday March 23, 1863. Thawing. Our Examination commenced today with Freshmen and Sophomore Classes. Rev. Mr. Bidwell is here as an Examiner... á 
Tuesday March 24, 1863. Rev. Mr. Bidwell of Lansingburgh and Mr. Scram of Sand Lake and Mr. Caleb Crumb of Schenectady are present as examiners. 
Wednesday March 25, 1863. Rain. A great thaw. To Albany and delivered my Report to the Legislature to the Clerk of the Assembly. Called on Munsell and gave order for 200 circulars for Certif. Holders of Hunter Pt. Prop. and home on the R.R.; met with Capt., now Lt. Col., Allan Jackson just returned from New Orleans. So altered is he -.so stout and tanned --that I did not know him. 
Thursday March 26, 1863. Warm day and the snow going rapidly. Nephew Magoun left this morn[ing] for home. All day in office and Examination. 
Friday March 27, 1863. Prof. Newman, who some time since resigned his Professorship in College, by advice of one or two of his associates concluded to recall it; on further thought, however, he has decided to abide by it and go. We shall therefore now be obliged to call a new Prof. in his place. 
Saturday March 28, 1863. It is now pretty certain that the Hunter 
Point Trust will be in funds by Ap. 1. to pay the first interest 
dividend upon the Preferred Certificates. I shall therefore go down 
on Monday and spend the week in making the dividend. 
Sunday March 29, 1863. All day at home with wife. 
New York. Monday March 30, 1863. I started this morning at 8 o'clock for New York. Had for travelling companions Prof. Thos. C. Reed formerly of Un. College and Prof. Gillespie. We students used to call T. C. R. "Tom Reed. He has changed but little with age. He has now a flourishing school at Geneva from which he derives a handsome income, so he says. 
Arrived at Gramercy Park Ho[tel] at 5 o'clock. 
Tuesday March 31, 1863. One of the worst days I ever saw to be out in. The storm raged all day --snow, rain, hail and wind. The mud was frightful, and the weather was cold withal. All day at Mr. Elys office, 54 William St., arranging for the dividend tomorrow. 
Saw Fred J. Hosford, 57 and 59 Wm St. He is wife's cousin, in the stationery business. 
Wednesday April 1, 1863. H. S. Anable came over this morning and arrangements were made to pay tomorrow. Cold and unpleasant. 
Thursday April 2, 1863. All day paying dividends at Mr. Ely's office, 
Friday April 3, 1863. Part of the day at Hunter Pt. with H. S. Anable, the College Agent, there. The prospects of selling land brightens; there are more inquiries than for 3 years past; how long it will continue, no one can tell. A civil war like ours greatly hinders all enterprises of great import. Yet capitalist[s] seem to be favorably disposed towards real estate as an investment which can hardly fail to be of value. 
N. Y. and Home Saturday April 4, 1863. A great N. wind cold and blustery. Started at 10.30 from N. Y. in company with Miss Anna M. Anabel of Phila., who goes to Schen. to visit her aunt, Mrs. Nott, and arrived there in good time at 6.40. The ice still reaches across the river many miles above Hudson. 
Sunday April 5, 1863. Stormy. Home all day with wife. 
Monday April 6, 1863. Reported to Finance Comm. the result of my visit to N. Y. --all favorably received. They directed the surplus funds of College to be invested in more Pref. Certif. 
Tuesday April 7, 1863. All day in office arranging my accounts of the dividend &c. 
Wednesday April 8, 1863. All day stormy, wet snow. Think of going with wife to Syracuse tomorrow to visit Mo[ther] Harvey. 
Syracuse Thursday April 9, 1863. Snow last night. Started this morning at 8 o'clock with wife for Syracuse and arrived there at 1.30. Found Fa[ther]and Mo[ther] Harvey well and Sarah on her bed where she has lain six mos., a great sufferer but patient and resigned. Syracuse is now a doleful place --a sea of mud, ádirty beyond belief. This arises in part from its unpaved streets. 
Friday April 10, 1863. Fine day. Had many talks with Sarah upon her condition and religious feelings. Her disease is pronounced a cancer of the stomach and incurable. She may live a few months but must die soon, her physician says. In spite of such a discouraging announcement she bears her pains and confinement with great christian fortitude and resignation, being ready and willing to depart whenever she shall be called. 
Syracuse and Home Saturday April 11, 1863. Started at 2 o'clock p.m. and reached home at 8 o'clock without accident. Found my mother, who has been sick of palpation of heart some time, a little better. 
Sunday April12, 1863. Home all day with wife. 
Mond.ay April 13, 1863. Many letters have accumulated during my absence among which is one that comes from H. S. Anable, coll. agent at Hunter Pt. announcing that there is a bill in the Legislature which if passed will injure the property there. He requests me to go down and get it changed so as to remove these objections. 
Albany and Un. College Tuesday April 14, 1863. Went to Albany at 8 o'clock to look after the Hunters Point bill and the "Land Grant Bill." Found on enquiry that the Hunter's Point bill had been ordered to a third reading, at which point it is difficult to turn it back for revision. 
The Land Grant Bill is designed to dispose of the munificent grant of land made by Congress to the States for education in Agriculture and the Mechanic Arts. Mr. Cook, state senator from Schuyler Co., claims the whole grant of 990,000 ac. from [for] an 
embryo Coll. which he has projected that he was largely instrumental Congress.  at Havana, solely on the ground in engineering the Bill thro'  
Albany  

Wednesday April 15, 11863. To Albany again. I find that the Land Grant Bill giving the whole grant to Mr. Cook's "Peoples College," having passed the Senate, is likely also to pass the Assembly. The whole thing is well understood in the Legislature to have been arranged beforehand on the "log rolling" plan. The Susquehanna Rail 
R. Bill, The Land Grant Bill, and the Broadway R. R. Bill, with perhaps many others, are linked together. Their friends form a "ring" and are bound no matter [what] may happen to carry these measures thro' in spite of all argument and influence. 
Albany Thursday April 16, 1863. I have seen many members of the Assembly in relation to the Land Grant Bill. Some talk well, but others listen and say nothing, evidently having made up their minds but [dis?]inclined to argue the question. I am more and more inclined to believe that nothing will stave it off unless the Governor will veto[e] it. 
Albany Friday April 17, 1863. To the Legislature again. The Land Grant Bill passed as it came from the Senate after a fierce opposition but aq of no account. The "ring" was too strong and could not be broken. 
Albany Saturday April 18, 1863. The R. R. Bill, which injuriously affects our Hunter Pt. property, I have got so amended in the Senate that is no longer objectionable. It has passed there and been concurred in by the Assembly. Our young member from Schen Co. --Mc Shea, an Irishman --is a promising young man. Tho' without the advantages of education he makes a sensible speech and is believed to be above a bribe, an astonishing quality in our legislators this winter. 

Sunday April 19, 1863. At home with wife. 
Albany Monday April 20, 1863. Went to Albany today with Judge to appear before the Governor to urge reasons why he should veto the Land Grant bill. The Governor appointed tomorrow evening for the hearing. Home again at 1.30 P.M. 
Albany Tuesday April 21, 1863. Went down at 6.20 p.m. with Judge Paige to attend the Argument before the Governor, to show reasons why the Land Grant bill should be vetoed. The discussion began at 8 o'clock 
p.m. and continued till 10 1/2 p.m. 1st Spoke Senator Cornell against the Bill and in favor of giving a share to the Agricul. Coll. at Ovid. 2nd Spoke Dr. Fisher, Pres of Hamilton Coll., in favor of dividing the land among the Colleges, at least in part. 3d. Spoke Judge Johnson in favor of the Bill as it is, giving the whole to the "Peoples College." 4 Judge Paige spoke in favor of a distribution among existing 
institutions. Mr. Cook himself. On the whole the discussion was able but the arguments in 
favor of the Bill were not so forcible as I had supposed they would [be]. Returned at 10'40'. 
Un. College Wednesday April 22, 1863. Nearly all day endeavor to negociate a sale of the "Vale" to "Vale Cemetery" but such hard men to drive a bargain are the Trustees that it is quite discouraging to talk with them. 
Thursday April 23, 1863. All day in office. 
Friday April 24, 1863. The term commences. Faculty meeting. Our new Prof. Clarke makes a good impression on those who meet him. 
Saturday April 25, 1863. The spring opens warm and pleasant. My recitation is Botany as usual. 
Sunday Aapril 26, 1863. At home. 

Monday April 27, 1863. The state of country presents no change of account. The war goes on and is acquiesed in as a matter of course When it will cease no one knows tho' appearances point to a year or two. 
Tuesday April 28, 1863. There are several things which have a discouraging effect upon the public mind: 1st The constant disfavor we meet with from the governing classes of England and the secret aid they give to the Rebels, and 2nd The opposition of the Democratic Party to the Administration --their successes in some elections and their talk of peace at any price. Of late, however, the leaders of that party have entirely changed their tone. They did not find they could carry the people into their peace views and they now favor the pushing on of the war. 
Wednesday April 29, 1863. I do not see the end of this war or its results. Shall we divide, or fight on and conquer the South? Who can answer these questions? One thing only I feel confident of --that slavery is doomed. From this time on it ip.ust decay. God rules among the nations and will fulfil his purposes. This is my only hope in this dreadful war. 
Thursday April 30, 1863. Fast Day appointed by the Pres. Generally observed by the closing of places of business by religious services. No College exercises. 
Friday May 1 ,1863. Quarter day, busy paying off the officers of College. 
It is now difficult to keep money invested at 7% --6% and 5% are the ruling rates. Mortgages are paid up rapidly and in fact one would think by appearance that everyone had grown rich, so general is the clearing off of indebtedness. Paper money worth 100 to 150 of gold must account for this. All prices rise. Hard for those who have fixed incomes, which do not rise. 
Saturday May 2. 1863. Yesterday saw Rev. Courtland Anable and his new second wife, Miss Sylvester of Brooklyn. He has accepted a call to the Bapt. Ch. in Cambridge, Mass. He goes to Niagara Falls and Montreal. 
Sunday May 3, 1863. To Bapt. Ch. Communion Season. 
Monday May 4, 1863. The pressure of business of various kinds 

connected with College has been beyond my ability to keep up with. The addition of the Hunter Pt. Trust to my other duties gives much 
increased  labor.  It also is to give me additional  compensation  [of]  
$750 per annum.  
Tuesday  May  5,  1863.  Again  the  two  great  armies  of  the  

Government and the Rebels, on the Rappahannock, are engaged in a sanguinary contest. What may be the. result, God only knows ; tho' my impression has long been that so long as they remain nearly of equal numbers and are both led by competent generals we may only expect a series of bloody but inconclusive battles! Not one of all the great contests thus far has seemed to settle anything but this, that both sides would fight well. Whatever advantage either has gained has been lost by failing to follow it up. Neither dared or was in a condition to reap the result to be expected. It may be so again. The.Rebels will not be crushed in any fight unless the blow be overwhelming and so often repeated that they can neither escape [n]or recover. I doubt if we have weakened them enough for that yet. 
Wednesday May 6, 1863. Union College. Our new Professor Clark from Burlington is making himself many friends among the students and faculty. He has a pleasant and taking way with him. My class in Botany consists of about 20 from all classes. 
Thursday May 7, 1863. Rain all this week. The water is over the river banks. Here will arise, I doubt not, a source of embarrassment to our Army over the Rappahannock if the storm reaches so far South. A flood by carrying the pontoons will cut their supplies. The news of terrific fights and alternate success have reached us. Fredericsburgh has been occupied by our army but still no permament advantage has yet been gained. Until the Rebels are crushed beyond recovery, all other advantages go for nothing. Even the taking of their Capital, Richmond, would not avail us anything. 
Friday May 8, 1863. The news comes today [of] our Army's retreat across the Rappahannock on account of the flood, rendering the breaking of their communication with their supplies almost certain. In both sides there has probably been a loss of 20,000 men and both armies are now back upon their old camping grounds. Sad record of War! Now come the dread tiding to distant families of friends killed and wounded. Our poor Prof. Lewis is particularly tried in this furnace of affliction. His son-in-law Colonel Peissner of the 119 Reg. is reported mortally wounded and prisioner and his son, Chas., Lt. in the same Reg., also wounded and prisoner. 
Saturday May 9, 1863. To [us] comes the news again that Col. Peissner is dead and it is generally believed. Sad news! He was our German Prof. and husband of Dr. Lewis' dau[ghter]. If war is ever right, I should say it is right for government to sustain its authority by force of arms, but I have not yet seen it clearly in that light. I doubt if any war is right, on Christian principles. Christ did not in his spirit and teaching so teach us to contend. 
Sunday May 10, 1863. Warm. At home with wife. Even on Sunday the war news fly about. This morning, by telegraph it is reported that our army has recrossed the Rappahannock to attack the Rebels, and that Gen. Keyes from Yorktown has moved on Richmond and taken it. Yet I doubt it all. 
Monday May 11, 1863. Many changes are about to take place in Union College, with what result remains to be seen. 1. We have already called a new Professor --N. G. Clark --of Rhetoric &c. He bids fair and it is hoped will do good to the Coll. in his office. 2. Our Prof. Newman has resigned and we are looking about for another in his place --a Methodist if possible. A Mr. Van Benshoten of Cazenovia Academy is now thought of and it is hoped he may be all we desire 3. Dr. Lewis is too deaf longer to teach his classes and must be releaved; another professor therefore must be had in his place and he allowed to lecture and do what he can in that way. 4. Prof. Peissner having been killed in the late battle of Chancellorville, a new prof. of Modern Languages must be had, -~whether it be the present assistant Prof L'Amoreaux or not, no one can say as yet. Here then are at least 4 new professors had or needed immediately --a great change within one yr. 
Tuesday May 12. 1863. All the friends of the lamented Peissner feel great interest in knowing his fate and condition Some have had a lingering hope that he might be still living within the Rebel lines but most give up all hopes. 
Wednesday May 13, 1863. Charles Lewis, son of the Professor, who was in Peissner's Regiment, has returned having been wounded in the arm. He gives not the slightest hopes that P. is alive. He says he fell dead instantly and never spoke. This extinguishes all hope. Young Schwerin also in the same Regiment was wounded mortally, and died after some days. 
Thursday May 14. 1863. I saw Dr. Nott this morning. He had been wheeled out in his chair upon the piazza of his house to breath the air. Alas! how changed the poor old man is from his condition 1 O years since. Perfectly helpless, he is also almost an imbecile in mind, remembering nothing, seeing nothing, knowing almost nobody But, what is astonishing to all his friends, his sons Benj. and Joel never come nigh him. For years they have not seen him. What a set of heathen must they be who cannot forego their imaginary injuries and visit a poor invalid old father! For their own credit one would say they would keep a show of filial affection. 
Friday May 15, 1863. The question of Peissners death is settled beyond controversy. His body is found and will be sent on for burial immediately. The same likewise of young Schwerins body; it is said he lived 4 days after receiving his wound. 
Saturday May 16, 1863. This morning the Faculty held a meeting 
and passed resolutions in relation to Peissner's death, which were 
sent to the Albany papers and a copy to the family. 
Sunday May 17, 1863. Rainy in P.M. and even'g. At home with wife. 
Monday May 18, 1863. The spring opens propitiously in many respects --a little too much rain perhaps for outdoor work of the 
farmer but quite favorable for grass and winter grain. 
Tuesday May 19, 1863. The long felt want of servants constantly on the Hill and near the Colleges is again talked of by authorities of Coll. Today I walked out with Dr. Hickok to look for some site where dwellings might be built for them. There seems to have been but one object in view in planning our building --a striking show from a distance; convenience was entirely disregarded. 
Wednesday May 20, 1863. Poor Peissner's body came today and the exercises were held this P. M. at the Chapel at 4 o'clock. 1. Reading the Scriptures and an address by Dr. Hickok. 2. An address in German by Mr. Schwilk, Minister of the Dutch Ref Ch. of Schen. 3. An address and prayer by Rev. Dr. Seelye of the Ref[ormed] D[utch] Ch. Tomorrow morning the remains will be taken to Fort Miller for interment beside the graves of the Lewis family. 
Thursday May 21, 1863. This morning at 7 1/2 o'clock the College, Fae. and students accompanied Mr. Peissners body to the R. Road depot. At 8 o'clock the friends left by Saratoga R. R. for Fort Miller. 
Friday May 22, 1863. Today the remains of Henry R. Schwerin, Capt. in Col. Peissners Reg., were buried in Vale Cemetery. He was wounded in the late battle at the same time with his Col. and after 8 days suffering died. Such is war! It demands the sacrifice of the youthful, healthy, the best of the land. May God in his mercy deliver us from farther sacrifices and slaughter! 
Saturday May 23, 1863. These last two days have been the warmest of the season --90 ¡ nearly. Went with Dr. Vedder this 
P.M. to call upon the housekeeper or wife, I know not which, of the late Dr. Daniel Toll, an eccentric old man who published a pamphlet of gossiping stories which he called a history of Schen. and his family. I had supposed he might have some papers of importance that might afford some facts relating to Schen. Found but little and that a package of old deeds and leases The most curious was the original deed or patent from Gov. Stuyvesant to Jan Barentre Wemp and Jacques Corneline Van Slyck of the island still called Van Slycks Island. 
Sunday May 24, 1863. Signs of rain. At home all day with wife. 
Monday May 25, 1863. The new Dutch Ch. now nearly complete is a constant source of regard and criticism to our staid citizens of leisure. All day long a score of them with their wives and dau[ghters] may be found gazing up at it, or wandering thro' the aisles and inspecting the decorations. Such a novelty is a real Godsend to the sober people of a quiet place like ours. It affords an innocent amusement, and they are getting [to] like their pet Ch. even if it be a little gaudy. 
Tuesday May 26, 1863. The interest of the war now centres about Vicksburg and the extreme So. West where Grants Army, having met with great successes against the Rebels, closely invests the city from the rear. Should the place fall into our hands before the rebels can reenforce the beleagured, it will truly be the greatest triumph of this dreadful war. Because when that place is taken, the Mississippi in its whole length is ours and the rebellious territory is divided in two. 
Wednesday May 27, 1863. This is a year of change for College. Poor Peissner is gone and his place is to be supplied. Prof. Clark has 
begun his duties. Prof. Newman has resigned and his place is to be filled. Prof. Lewis is so deaf and broken down that he is no longer fit for much active duty, and an assistant at least must be had for him. 
Thursday May 28, 1863. My old classmate Rev. James Nichols of Rochester came tonight on the way to Saratoga Spgs. for his health. He went to the army last summer as Chapl[a]in; about two mos. since he returned sick of typhoid fever and pneumonia, and is now just able to crawl about. 
Fridday May 29, 1863. Spent good deal of time with Nichols, took him about the City in a carriage and into the country. He is very feeble; but his cheif trouble seems to be with his lungs. I should think there was danger of consumption. 
Saturday May 30, 1863. Nichols left this morning for Saratoga at 8 
A. M. The weather thus far has been favorable to the farmer, frequent rains and a warm summer bringing forward vegetation apace. May a bountiful Providence grant us another plentiful harvest, for in our present sad condition a scarcity of provisions would be a terrible calamity superadded to that of war. 
Sunday May 31, 1863. Warm day with showers. Rev. Mr. Day preached. 
Monday June 1, 1863. The season thus far is quite cool in these parts. Dr. Nott, poor old man, still lingers, a mere wreck of what he once was --prostrate in mind and body. He very seldom sees anyone and never goes out. 
Tuesday June 2, 1863. Practically, Dr. Hickok is President of Union College, tho' Dr. N. is nominally such. The latter should doubtless have resigned the office ten years ago --at least on the occasion of his semicentennial anniversary. Whether from vanity or interest it is that he has held on to an office he can no longer fill and knows not By withholding from Dr. H. the full office of Pres., he prevents his holding a seat in the Board of Trustees and many other important accessories to the performance of his duties. 
Wednesday June 3, 1863. The discipline of Union College I have often spoken of, often studied and considered in all its phases, and the more I do so, the less I am in love with it. With all the much lauded management of Dr. N. I was no more in love than with that of 
his successor. It is and always has been a sham --false and hollow. 
We have never aimed at more than an apparent quiet; our 
discipline has never been based upon high moral and religious 
principles. Our officers shirk all they dare; they are afraid of the 
students and had rather run than face and restrain them. Dr. N. ruled 
by finesse; it was his nature to intrigue and he could do nothing 
without it. Until our whole system is changed and more religious 
influence is exerted over the young men, all will go on 
unsatisfactorily 
Thursday June 4, 1863. The question is often asked me by outsiders, "How does Dr Hickok succeed in the government of College?" I do not consider him a "witch" in government of young. He has some good qualities --honesty, frankness, and kindliness. But he is blunt, sometimes to rudeness, not quick to see the proprieties of things and even, one may say, stupid. Still on the whole he gets along pretty well with the students. His greatest want is sufficient authority with the faculty so as to make them do their duty. This has . always been a defect in our management. It has always been quite as difficult, nay more, to bring the officers up to their duty as to rule the students. Officers shirk, grow lazy, lose all enthusiasm in their profession and are content to vegetate in their places. 
Friday June 5. My whole idea of a college I find differ from those of many of my colleagues. I disbelieve in the monastic system --in crowding young into barracks, the outgrowth of old monastic times and European ideas. This system has ruined most of our Colleges and many young men: -it will never succeed, never come up to what is expected of it by the patrons of our Literary Institutions. No College in this country is better arranged to try the system than ours. The President and Prof[esors] reside in the same buildings with the students: yet I am bound to say that the whole system is a failure -.an utter failure. All mechanical arrangements so much aimed at by 
áDr. Nott to rule college can never take the place of personal religious influence. 
Saturday June 6, 1863. The condition of the country is like a sick man with many complaints and many physicians. The more we are physicked, the farther we seem from a cure. Human means fail and only help from Heaven can save us. To a Christian, whose reliance is upon a beneficient Father who disposes all things well, the aspect of affairs tho' dark to his eye may not seem hopeless and without meaning. God will yet accomplish some great purpose in our tribulations. 
Sunday June 7, 1863. At home with wife all day. 
Monday June8, 11863. June 8. For [more] than a year I have spent an hour or two of my evenings in copying and examining the records of the Dutch of Schen: I have copies of all the records down to 185 7. I have arranged all the more than 11,000 baptisms of children into families, at so far as 1800. Some facts I have recovered [were] never before known and [are] of great interest to the local historian. As the records are in Low Dutch, I have been obliged to to learn that language. 
Tuesday June 9, 1863. The great mass of historical information relating to this region is found in the state and county and city offices at Albany. The earliest are of course in Dutch and in the peculiar chirography of the period. Hence they are sealed books to all save the most plodding, persevering student. Not more than one or two persons in A[lbany], I am told, can read these books. 
Wednesday June 10, 1863. We have lately had some rude and disorderly proceedings in College. As a consequence Dr. Hickok has dismissed two young men, Stoddard and [/]. This is the boldest movement I ever knew in Un. Coll. --to send young away in term time. Dr. N. never did such a thing in all my remembrance of College matters. After much squirming and resolving, the College has acquiesced in the arrangement. All things move on quietly. 
Thursday June 11, 1863. As an instance of perfect imbecility of our officers of discipline I will mention that lately some boyish fellows in one of the "sections" of North Coll. as a trick fastened the front and back doors or pretended to do so by barring them on the inside. The section officer, the oldest in College, who could easily have entered the Hall from his own study and removed the obstructions and stopped the noise, sent a note to the Pres. for help and then retired to his garden where he had 3 able-bodied men at work. Such a shirking of duty is the wonder of all the Faculty. 
Friday June 12, 1863. The politics of the country is a strange exhibition in the midst of a cruel civil war. One would suppose that all party strife and contention would cease. Far from it. The scramble for office is as fierce as it ever was, corruption and bribery as rife. This of all things is the most discouraging for peace, or the final success of our arms. 
Saturday June 13, 1863. What is the real and true state of feeling among the people in regard to the wars now raging? I think there are a few leaders of the Demo. Party who [are] at heart utterly opposed to success of our arms and rejoice heartily [at] all ill news from our armies. Another class not quite so unpatriotic are so bound to party that all things done by another party must be severely criticized and comparisons made: "Our party alone can save the country." 
Sunday June 14, 1863. At church (Ba.pt.). Rev. Mr. Day preached. 
Moriday June 15, 1863. We again had a great fright from the news which daily come from Washington of the grand movement of the Rebel up the Shenandoah Valley and of raids into Maryland and Penns[ylvania]. Perhaps we are again on the eve. of another great, bloody and resultless battle. 
Tuesday June 16, 1863. The (Bapt.) "Hudson River Association, North" meet here today. Rev. E. L. Magoun of Albany is our guest -.an odd fellow --odd as Dick's hat band. 
Wednesday June 17, 1863. A few times I have been into the convention. Heard Magoun preach last evening and was disappointed, evidently he was not well prepared. All harmony prevailed in the 
meeting.  
Thursday  June  18, 1863.  The convention  broke  up last eve ning.  
Long cold and unpleasant  days we are  having for the  season.  Fires  

are a comfort. 
Friday June 19, 1863. Cold and threatening rain. 
Saturday, June 20, 1863. James Brown, of Brown Bros, now on a visit to Mrs. and Dr Nott, called on me this P. M. and sat half an hour. Conversed about state of college affairs, state of country &c. I find him hopeful and a firm believer in the destruction of slavery or else a destruction of all peace and of the country. 
Sunday June 21, 1863. At home all day with wife. 
Monday June 22, 1863. Opened Library as usual 9 to 10. This part of our teaching apparatus is more deficient than any other belonging to College. It has been constantly sl[e]ighted and neglected. We ought to have 50,000 Vols. instead of 9 or 10 M. but Dr. N. has never thought books necessary to a boys education. He never had any books of his own, never read any. I have heard him say that he had read only two books, Shakespeare and Homer --neither has he had in his house within these 40 yrs. With such notions of course it could not be expected that he would favor a large Library in College. 
Tuesday June 23, 1863. Opened Library again this morn'g 9 -10. Went to Albany to see the Land Commissioners about renewing water grant at Hunters Pt. After leaving petition for same with their clerk to be presented, this P. M. spent 3 hours in the Office of Clerk of Court of Appeals looking over some ancient papers relating to Schenectady, especially those in the suit of Ryer Schermerhorn vs. Trustees of Schenectady about the common lands. This was begun abt. 1755 [?]. The voluminous answer of the Trustees contains much valuable matter for the History of Schen: 
Wednesday June 24, 1863. Dr Hickok called to have a talk about the views of Prof[essors], especially myself, respecting the discipline of College --as to whether it should be administered by the President or by the Faculty. I answered by the Pres., save perhaps in extreme cases when the advice of Fae. might be asked. The Doct. is naturally a little timid and especially in view of the stout opposition had some years ago. It is not surprising he should hesitate sometimes when prompt action is required. 
Thursday June 25, 1863. Dr. Notts birthday, having completed his 90th year. Called with wife and saw him a moment. Poor old man! how feeble and vacant his look! His first inquiry is "What is the state of the country?" He is quite desponding of the state of affairs and well he may be. 
Friday June 26, 1863. Much time with Dr. Backus and Judge Paige, Fin. Com. on affairs of the College. A Grand Wedding yesterday --the dau[ghter] of Judge John Sanders to a Mr. Wilson of Columbia County. 
Saturday June 27, 1863. Warm, dry and dusty --no rain for many days. All indications point to another great battle somewhere in Maryland soon. May God avert it and save us from any more slaughter. 
Sunday June 28, 1863. Hot and dry. At home with wife. 
Monday June 29, 1863. The universal cry for rain has not been satisfied: no rain yet. Crops hereabout suffer greatly. This being 4 July week, the usual outburst of noise and gunpowder is expected. In college we look for a night of noise and confusion, not unaccompanied by fear le[a]st our buildings may be kindled. 
Tuesday June 30, 1863. My classmate Nichols and wife called again this P. M. on their way to Saratoga Spgs. for his health. He has gained nothing since he was here last. Poor fellow, I much fear he is not long for this world. His lungs seem to be diseased. 
My fiscal year closes tonight. Now comes the driving time to close up accounts and make report of our condition to Trustees --a job I dread just at this hurrying time prior to Comm't. week. 
Wednesday July 1, 1863. The rebel invasion of Pennsylvania is the subject of thought and talk. The boldness of the movement after the disaster of last year argues great confidence in their strength or skill to extricate themselves. To add to our embarrasments Gen. Hooker is removed and Gen. Meade put in his place whilst almost in face of the enemy. It now looks as if a crisis were at hand in this horrible war. Blood must flow like water and God only knows the result. I dread to hear every days reports. That the fate of a nation should be crowded into the actions of a few days seems a fearful thing, and the result can be expected only with dreadful fears. 
Thursday July 2, 1863. The air seems filled with rumors of changes, battles and disasters. What a sight --a humiliating sight just now -.is our nation! sacrificing thousands dayly of her best young men and what for --avowedly on one side, to maintain slavery for which they aim at independence; on the other, to maintain the nation entire. I cannot see that either of these objects can be permanently obtained. 1st. God and the conscience of the world will not always tolerate slavery. 2nd. If a people are determined to be independent, I cannot see how it can in the end be prevented. Should we conquer the South, I cannot see how we can keep her conquered. We cannot always maintain an army of 500,000 men, and with less we should not be safe. However, others see differently and perhaps may be right. 
Friday July 3, 1863. I believe we are now fighting for boundaries, and where they can be had, I know not; the valley of the Mississip.pi must be one people as surely as there is a sun in the heavens. Peace on any other terms would not last a 12-month. The Allegany Mountains are the only permiss[i]able natural boundaries. That the rebel gen[eral] should boldly march into the free states argues great confidence in his forces and, if he be not over-confident of his power and our weakness, may hope to dictate a peace on his own terms. A few days will decide the matter. May God favor the right. 
Saturday July 4, 1863. Last night a fine shower. The students Pow[w]ow with tin horns, bell ringing, fire work &c. commenced about 12 o'clock last night and lasted 2 hours, making night hideous. There was however good humor, no malice in it all, no damage to any property. In town the usual turn out and noise. 
All day in Treas. Office at work on my ledger preparatory to the annual balance. Rain again tonight. 
Sunday July 5, 1863. At church, Baptist. Rev. Mr. Day preached. Sacrament of Lords Supper after sermon. Few out on acct. of rain. 
Monday July 6, 1863. The first faint rumours reach us of a terrible battle fought last Friday at Gettysburgh, Pa. betw. the whole Rebel host and our own army under Meade. Victory is claimed for the North. But oh what carnage and death reigns over such a field of contest! May God in his Mercy stay this murderous war and bring peace to this distracted nation! 
Tuesday July 7, 1863. Dr. Hickok goes to Amherst Coll. this morning to deliver an address at the Comm 't. there. Today came the news of the fall of Vicksburgh, the Rebel Gibraltar of the Mississippi; for 9 months have our army there under Grant tried every door to the place to find entrance, but in vain. Finally, passing completely around the place. he invested it upon back side and now after a month's seige the whole army garrison of more than 20,000 men have surrendered. This insures the speedy fall of Port Hudson and the opening of the whole Mississippi River, and whoever holds this river holds also the whole valley, which must now and forever belong to one nation. Of all the absurd ideas that is the most foolish that a national boundary can divide the Mississippi Valley E. and W. 
Wednesday July 8, 1863. Last night the students celebrated the victory of Gettys burgh and the fall of Vicks burgh. They had a torch.light procession with banners, speeches and songs in the Chapel and, to close, fire-works. Altho' all excitements of this kind are 
unfavorable to study, these are times when it can not be prevented. 
Thursday July 9, 1863. Today I attend the funeral of Miss Mary Martin as bearer. She was a daughter of late Hugh R. Martin of this town, but has resided in N. York for some years past. She was a schoolmate of my wife and an old acquaintance of my own. She died with a hemorage of the lungs almost instantly. 
Friday July 10, 1863. Every wind from the south wafts the murmurs of another gathering tempest on the bank of the Potomac. The rebel General Lee, having retreated from Penn., has reached the river to find it too high for fording and all his bridges destroyed. In such a situation he is forced to prepare for another battle with our army, which is following close upon him. Can it be possible that such awful slaughters of men can much longer continue? From 30,000 to 40,000 men, young, vigourous men, were killed and wounded at the last battle one week ago today. Probably 5000 were killed outright. And now any day or hour another, perhaps more bloody, fight will be fought, with what result only God knows who guides the destinies of nations as well as individuals. His purposes with regard to our nation who can devine? Doubtless thro' suffering and scourging He means to lead us to a more hopeful trust in him and a less boastful reliance upon material prosperity. Oh that we might rightfully receive His chastisements and humble ourselves under his mighty hand. 
Saturday July 11, 1863. Having prepared my yearly report to the Trustees, today I took it to the printer Munsell of Albany, back at 1 o'clock. Our Faculty meeting held last evening. Much talk and but little done. Commencement matters discussed and with great difficulty it is that anyone can be got to do anything towards the proper arrangement and progress of matters. Every one shirks; to do as little and get as much for it as possible is the rule. 
Sunday July 12, 1863. Cloudy and signs of rain. At home with wife. 
Monday July 13, 1863. The last week of study and recitation. I say of study tho' little more than the make-believe. We never have much study after the 1st of July and this year is this particularly true. What with the excitement of constant war news, battles, and victories, our young men are quite unfitted for any mental application. When will all this cease! 
Tuesday July 14, 1863. The news from N. Y. is anything but pleasant. It seems that the draft commenced there yesterday. Certain disorderly fellows, taking this as the occasion, attacked the office and burned the building and part of the block. From thence the mob spread to various parts of the north side of the City committing shocking barbarities, robbing, burning, and killing. There appears to a perfect reign of terror and misrule. This is the bitter fruit of the teaching of N. Y. democracy or, as it is called, copperheadisn1. Indeed we have as perfect rebels in N. Y. City as in S[outh] C[arolina], only they are more cowardly and only so far preach treason as they dare without danger to their necks or property. 
Wednesday July 15, 1863. Sad news again from N. Y. The mob still rules , committing deeds worthy of the Camanches. I never before felt ashamed of my country. Now an American ought not to look in the face of a Camanche or a Sioux Indian without a blush. The main object has been from the beginning plunder and destruction, and this has been carried out without remorse or pity. The poor negros are particularly obnoxious to the ire of these brutes. They are said to be almost without exception the low Irish of the upper wards. Probably no other nation is capable of such actions. 
Thursday July 16, 1863. All the week preparing my report for the printer. Done. 
The mob spirit seems to subside in N.Y. the moment troops arrive and grape and cannister are applied. Nothing else is effectual for such beasts, who are without shame or feeling. The authorities of the city are much to blame for want of energy. The Police seem to have acted nobly but were altogether too few to cope with the enemy. This mob spirit is catching. Even in Troy the flame broke out, and to show their sympathy the rascals broke open the jail and released all the prisoners, a precious set. 
Friday July 17, 1863. Mobs and rumors of mobs all the week. Constant excitement. Following Vicksburgh, Port Hudson has surrendered. The outposts of Charleston have been attacked and carried. Morris Island is taken. Lee and his army have escaped after all our hope of catching him. We are not satisfied if we do not get news of a great battle at least once a week. We live on excitement raised high or else we loose hope and [are?] in despondency. 
Saturday July 18, 1863. The examinations so-called are over and now follow[s] the week of spouting. From Sunday to Thursday there will be little else. I desire nothing more than to have this session closed and have once more quiet. I have but little faith in the discipline and moral power of our authorities over the students who just now, like all young, are ripe for folly and indiscretion. The sooner they are off, the better and safer for us who remain. 
Sunday July 19, 1863. Fine day. At home with wife. 
Monday July 20, 1863. This being our Comm't. week will be full of bustle and care for all who are interested in it. This day has witnessed a new performance for our College --called the Class Day or Presentation Day. It is the exclusive arrangement of the Senior Class, and began with exercises at the 2nd Dutch Ch. and ended with like exercises on the Hill in the garden of Prof. Lewis (South end of South Coll.) This is borrowed from some of our eastern Colleges. 
Tuesday July 21,1863. We have had our usual meetings and speeches to-day, but I have attended none of them, being busied in other matters in the Office. 
Wednesday July 22, 1863. This is called Alumni Day. There were present from 75 to 100, a small number considering how many we have. The necrology of the graduates which I have prepared was read in the afternoon and included over SO names. A fine collation was served from 12 to 2 P.M. F. J. Hosford and daug[hter] Ella came yesterday. 
Thursday July 23, 1863. Comm't. Day. Exercises all in the 2nd Dutch Church. Said to have been good, but I was not there. Tired and worn out, I feel thankful that this day is closed prosperously. Hosford left today for Troy. 
Friday July 24, 1863. Prof. Newman leaves Coll. His place was intended to be filled by a Mr. Van Benscoten, teacher in Cazenovia Acad. Whether he will come or not seems to be uncertain, for altho' he half promises to accept an appointment he is said to have accepted another from Middletown, made a fortnight since, and has not deigned to answer repeated letters sent him. 
Saturday July 25, 1863. Edw. Magoun andWillie go to Hudson today. 
Sunday July 26, 1863. . Attended Bapt. Ch. this forenoon. 
Unfortunately there exists a bad state of feeling among a few of the Ch. Too much of the world and too little religion. Private grudges and heart burnings are allowed to influence Christian conduct. One of the Deacons --Swits --has left the Ch. and refuses to come again so long as the present Pastor remains. He accuses him of lying &c&c. visited Dea[con] S[wits] yesterday but found him incorrigible, unyeilding. 
Monday July 27, 1863. We have much interest in the doings of the Trustees who meet but once a year: the work is usually prepared for them by two or three of their number who live here and at Albany, and there is but little to do except to confirm what they devise. This year is the 3d since we have had a quorum and it seems quite necessary that the acts of the last 3 meetings should be confirmed. Tomorrow, therefore, the Board are to hold an adjourned meeting in Albany with the hopes of having a quorum. 
Tuesday July 28, 1863. The Board of Trustees met in the Secretary of State's office at 1 o'clock and,, by br,inging in the Governor, the requisite number of eleven was obtained. Bp. Potter resigned, and Clarkson N., his son, was appointed in his place. After the adjournment, a meeting of the Finance Comm. was held in Comptroller Robinson's room at the Delavan House and some unfinished business referred to them was done. This evening I go down the river to N. Y. to do up my vacation work at Hunter's Point. 
Hunters Point Wednesday July 29, 1863. A night ride upon the river is always a tiresome one to me and this was no exception. The boat was the Hendrik Hudson. Had little or no sleep, the heat and noise prevented. Arrived in N. Y. at 8, got a bite at a dirty shop and passed over to H. 
Pt. where spent all day, Gramercy Park House.  and in evening came back to  N. Y. to  
N. Y. and H. Pt. Thursday July 30, 1863.  The  talk  is much  about  the  late  mob  

violence which is deprecated by all and curses heaped upon the leaders who have by their speeches and workings favored any violence which an intemperate multitude might attempt. The selfishness of party and its needs stand most in the way of good order in such a city as N. Y. The votes of the blackguards are necessary and as good as the votes of the best men and much more easily to be had by cozening and bribery. 
Hunters Pt. Friday July 31, 1863. Today finishes my stay in N. Y. and H. Pt. I go home tomorrow, glad to get away from the city during this hot and oppressive weather. 
N.Y. and Home Saturday August 1, 1863. Started for home at 10 o'clock Sat. A. M. and arrived there at 6.40 P.M. --a hot, dreadfully hot and 
disagreeable ride.  
Sunday Season.  August 2, 1863.  At Baptist C h. in forenoon.  Communion  
Monday August  3, 1863.  Among  the  doings  of our  Trustees  a.t  

Comm't. was the appointment of a Mr. Van Benscoten, Prof. of Greek. We hear now that he had been previously chosen at Middletown (Wesleyan Univ.) and has accepted that appoint[ment]. 
Tuesday August 4, 18163. In regard to Prof. Lewis, who is both deaf and in ill health, the Trustees have made him Lecturer on Greek literature and the oriental languages, this for the purpose of removing him from the Soph. and Jun. Classes, and preventing the necessity of his using texbooks. To tell the truth, the Dr. has long been a useless man in the recitation room. Tho' a very learned man, he has not had the faculty of managing a class of young students. To a well-disposed class of young men who desire instruction, his lectures would be full of interest and profit. His infirmities and nervousness make him a very unpleasant companion sometimes and hard to please. 
Wednesday August 5, 1863. Another change is the appointment of Prof. Stanton of Union School to the Professorship of Latin in place of Prof. Newman who has resigned. Newman goes away with bad feelings toward some of the Trustees and Faculty. When he first came, he perhaps was not over and above fitted for the post; this was well enough known at the time and a better scholar (Methodist) was recommended, but Dr. Nott chose N. because he heard he was an easy, good-natured man, a qualification always first with the Dr. Some dissatisfaction after a time was expressed by some of the fac. that N[ewman] did not study in his profession and was not prepared in his lessons. This was told N[ewman] [and spurred him on to do better and, as is said by Dr. Lewis, he latterly taught well. However this may be, the reputation first acquired never left him. 
Tis charged that one or two of the. fac. and one or two of the Trustees continued to urge his removal and talked about him outside of College, creating a public opinion prejudicial to his good name. However this may be, it was at last resolved by some of the Trustees to bring his case before the Board and ask for his removal. As this would have been a still farther blow to his reputation, some of his friends were forced to say to him plainly: you had better resign to save a worse fate and so he did but with no good feeling to those who forced him to it. He left tonight for Poultney, Vt. where he goes to start a young ladies school. 
Saturday August 8, 1863. My opinion in regard to N[ewman] is that if let alone or, better, if helped forward by a unanimous faculty and trustees, he would have done well and that the change we have made may not be in all respects for the best. 
Sunday August 9, 1863. At home all day with wife. 
Monday August 10, 1863. Mr. Gilbert, my clerk, and son John start this morning for the northern woods --Lake Oswegatchie and thereabouts for a fortnight of hunting and fishing. 
Tuesday August 11, 1863. Giles Fonda Yates, once of Schen., now dead, was a pension agent and in the course of that business 
collected  many  old  papers;  these  have  been  loaned  to  me  for  
historical  purposes  and  this  week  I  shall  devote  to  the [ir]  
examination.  
Wednesday  August  12, 1863.  The  last  3 weeks  have  been  

uncommonly hot and wet withal; for many years we have not heard of so many sun strokes This has been fearfully fatal in N. Y. 
Thursday August 13, 1863. The draft was holden last week and this, for this District, and passed off quietly because it was plainly seen by the presence of U. S. troops that all attempts at opposition would be in vain. In all our cities we have a foreign element that is the scum of Europe and ready for any row or riot when occasion may occur. 
Friday August 14, 1963. Professor Clark has returned from the East and with his furniture is putting Prof. Newman's late house --south end of North Coll. --in order for his family. 
Saturday August 15, 1863. I have finished examining G. F. Yates papers and find them of no great value in a historical point of view, much less than I had anticipated. Giles had quite a reputation for ancient lore, but really never had patience and care enough for an antiquarian. He caught at traditions and old wives tales and called them history--vide his "Antiquarian Papers" in the Schen. Reflector for 1835-6-7. Those papers are sometimes true but as a whole are untrustworthy. He made the most ridiculous blunders and never had the wit to discover the fact. 
Sunday August 15, 1863. Some rain, signs of more. At home all day with wife. 
Monday August 17, 1863. All alone in Treas. office: the quiet of the wilderness reigns on the Hill; the heat indisposes everyone to labor. 
Tuesday August 18, 1863. For months the College authorities and Trustees of Vale Cemetery have negociated about the "Vale" property, but almost without effect. The latter are so hard to please, so determined to have their own way, that it almost looks like an impossibility to deal with them. 
Wednesday August 19, 1863. All eyes are now fixed on Charleston, S. C., the only point where during this hot weather active warlike operations are carried on. The one side hope to breach Sumter and open the harbor of the Rebel City; the other resist with all their power. It now looks hopeful for the Union. troops. With modern artillery and a plenty of them, hardly any fortifications would seem invulnerable. 
Thursday August 20, 1863. Today the College Committee --Judge Paige, Dr. Backus and myself --met the Vale Cem. Committee again, and discussed the matter of selling the Vale. Apparently all objections are removed. 
Friday August 21, 1863. Prof. Clark, our new Prof., has taken the house so. end of North Coll. from whence Prof. Newman has just removed. 
Saturday August 22, 1863. The vacation so long and dull is growing weary. 
Sunday August 23, 1863. At home all day. 
Monday August 24, 1863. John and Mr. Gilbert returned from "John Browns' Tract" today having been gone two weeks. 
Tuesday August 25, 1863. The negociation having brought to a close with reference to Vale Cemetery, the paper on being submitted their Board last evening was passed upon favorably and it is understood no farther obstacle remains to the exchange of papers. Today I have commenced to draw them up, two deeds, bond and mortgage and two copies of a very long contract. 
Wednesday August 26, 1863. All day at work upon the Vale Cemetery papers. 
Thursday August 27, 1863. Papers for Vale Cem. being ready, it is now found that their President Dorsh is away, not to [be at] home for some days. Nothing more can be done till he returns. 
Friday August 28, 1863. Thus far I have had to myself no part of the vacation. Two weeks only remain. I should like a few days of it to employ in examining or ferreting out old documents relating to the early history of Schenectady. This week I have had the opportunity of seeing two Dutch bibles, one lately in possession of the DeGraaf family, the other now belonging to Mr. Nicholas Van Vranken. Both have valuable family records of the Swits, DeGraafs and Van Vrankens. On inquiry I find many old papers among the Dutch families of S[chenecday] but they have been badly cared for and, being hidden in old garrets in barrels and boxes, it is a task to get at them. 
Saturday August 29, 1863. John and self started this morning to make a trip to Rotterdam --Veeder's and Schemerhorns mill, and so along under the bluff to the several farm houses inhabited by Schermerhorns. We first called at Veeder's Mill, now owned by Abraham V.; he was friendly and showed me several old papers, leases, wills and his old family bible dated 1702. Abm. and Jno., his bro[thers], living nearby, are descendants of Gerrit Simonse V[eeder] who early occupied their present farm, and built the mill about 1720 or perhaps a little before. Copied the 7 or 8 inscriptions in the fam[ily] burying ground just west of the Mill and went on to Schermerhorn's Mill --now owned by Nicholas S., a descendant of the Schodac Schermerhorn's, quite distinct from the families of that name in Scherr. The Scherr. fam[ily] came from Reyer. Cheifly the Schodac fam[ily] from Jacob, Ryers bro[there]. Didnt find Nich. at home and went on to another Scherm. living under the hill or bluff, found nothing here; on to Van Gyslings and copied the dozen or so inscriptions in the family burial ground, when it began to rain and so home at 2 o'clock. 
Sunday August 30, 1863. To Bapt. Ch. in forenoon, a strange loud.
spoken man preached. 
Monday August 31, 1863. Mother Harvey came down tonight: her great labors in attending upon Sarah the past year has quite broken her down in health. She is by no means the woman she once was. Sarah having been sent to Dr. Smith's water cure estabt. at Geneva for another trial, Mo[ther] H. is left free to try to recruit, tho' I doubt if she ever recovers. 
Tuesday September 1, 1863. Vacation is nearly at an end. I have used but few days of it for myself--not one day out of town on my own pleasure or business. I had hoped to spend some days in Albany at the record offices there for the purpose of examing old historical matters relating to Scherr: but I fear my desires will be disappointed. Every day has its duties and calls for me. 
Wednesday September 2, 1863. I have done something in the way of hunting up local matters by taking notes from family bibles still in existence in the City. These are usually in Dutch and huge folios of an 
early date, knowledge heirlooms.  from of the  1702 lang: and  to  1738. have  The little  present regard  generation for these  have ancient  no  
Albany  

Thursday September 3, 1863. I spent all day at the Sec't. of States office examining the land patents of early times relating to Scherr: So admirably arranged are the indexes and abstracts that it is quite a comfort to consult them. Home at 6.40. 
Friday September 4, 1863. At home today to do up the business of the office. 
Albany Saturday September 5, 1863. All day at Alb. consulting old records again. Hoped to see Dr. O'Callaghan in the Sect. States office, but failed and spent the day in the Co. Clerks office where I found some vols. of old Dutch records, some in Schen. matters. These vols. are in the worst kind [of] writing and very hard to read even by a Dutch schol[ar]. Back at 6.40. 
Sunday September 6, 1863. To Bapt. Ch. Mr. Day preached. 
Communion service after sermon --few out. 
Monday September 7, 1863. This afternoon I exchanged papers with the Vale Cemetery for the Vale property, delivering two deeds and a contract, receiving a bond and mortgage and contract. Thus after a troublesome negociation of some months this business is brought to a close. 
Albany and Un. College Tuesday September 8, 1863. Today I spent in Albany looking over county and state records for historical matters relating to Schenectady. The earliest records, being in Dutch, are hard to read; the gram[mar], penmanship and spelling are all bad in some cases. The task however of foraging for facts where few are recorded is a laborious and almost endless task. The Secretary of State's papers are admirably arranged and indexed in most cases; they are very voluminous and interesting. In the case of Schen: since it was but [an] out-laying hamlet of Albany and all its business transacted there, it had no very decided and peculiar history. It has no records or papers of ancient date which can afford one much information respecting its early condition. 
Wednesday September 9, 1863. Went to the cemetery with Prof. Jackson to meet Peter Dorsh and point out the grounds which are to be graded for a College burying place. The ground reserved for this purpose lies on the north side of the Vale about midway from the bottom or west end and consists of 3 1/2 acres. It is one of the most 
á eligible spots on the grounds and when properly cleaned up and put in order will make a handsome plot. 
Thursday September 10, 1863. College examinations for new entrances commence today. We have not held high expectations of accessions this fall. The war is a dreadful drawback upon Colleges. It requires the youthful and rejects the aged and infirm. While the war lasts, therefore, we cannot expect a large increase to our numbers but the contrary. Faculty meeting to arrange our course of studies. This arrangement is particularly difficult this year because we are passing from our old course to a new and advanced one. 
Friday September 11. 1863. Union College Examinations continue. The newly entered students exceed in number those of last year -.much to our surprise; still they will not probably exceed 60 or 65. 
Faculty meeting again this evening to finish the arrangement of studies began last evening. 
Saturday September 12, 1863. New students continue to arrive and give us encouragement for a fair number this session. Edwd. returned. 
Sunday September 13, 1863. At home with wife. Mother Harvey departed yesterday evening for Syracuse with Fa[ther] H., who came on Friday evening. 
Monday September 14, 1863. The session opens more prosperously than we had expected. About 60 new students have entered Coll. We should not have been disappointed if only SO had presented themselves. It will take many a year to bring our numbers up to what they were 4 years ago, I fear. A state of war is not favorable to Lit. Inst. 
Tuesday September 15, 1863. Having established a new course of studies, we are now in a transition state from the old to the new course. Many difficulties arise in bringing harmony out of them, especially where a few selfish Prof. or at [least?] impracticable ones have to be humored in all their whims. 
Wednesday September 16, 1863. My experience teaches me that in Government of a College it is much more difficult to make the faculty do right than the students. Laws and resolutions without number have been passed by our Trustees for the purpose of making the officers do their duty, but all to no effect. The tendency constantly is to shirk, study ease, do as little as possible, get as much as possible for it. An honest self-sacrificing spirit is seldom. 
Thursday September 17, 1863. Fa[ther] Harvey called this evening and left in the 12 o'clock train again for Syracuse. His errand was to see if I would take Mo. Harvey for a while into the house. They break up at S[yracuse] within a week or two, sell off furniture and go to board. Sarah is at Geneva still sick and upon her back. 
Friday September 18, 1863. Tremendous rain all day such as has not been seen here for months. My recitations are the same as usual the fall term --two divisions of Junior Class, in Conics, about 20 each. If I had had enough influence in the revision of the new course, this study should have been thrown out and Anal. Geom. put in its place. 
Saturday September 19, 1863. The first fall day in feeling --cool north wind. 
Sunday September 20, 1863. At home with wife. Cool and fall-like. 
Monday September 21, 1863. As Librarian I open the Library this session from 9 to 1O on Mand. and Tues. It should be opened every day and for several hours but hitherto no provisions have been made for such an arrangement. The faculty are beginning to ask for more books and more opportunities for consulting them and it is to hoped they may obtain them. It is a shame and speaks badly for the government of Coll. hitherto, that an Institution which has existed nearly 70 yrs. and sent out great numbers of young men should now have an ill-assorted Library of less than 10,000 vols. Dr. Nott never used books himself and had no great esteem for a large Library; in fact he used to say that students had enough to do without drawing books from a library! 
Tuesday September 22, 1863. I have often spoken of the difficulties of governing College, the greatest of which consists in making all the Professors do their duty. There are always some whose selfishness is far ahead of their regard for the convenience of the College. We have just had an illustration arising from the want of a recitation room for one hour in the P. M. Several Prof. have rooms which they call their own because no others but their own recitations are there heard, and some seem to think they have a prescriptive right thereto no matter what the demand may be. The Prof. of Math. has such a room of which no use is made in the P.M. It was very necessary to use it for an afternoon Rec. of the Fresh. Class. To the proposition he refused entirely and with no sufficient reason whatever. Such selfishness and disregard of the public convenience I hope is rare and will be seldom shown. 
Wednesday September 23, 1863. Our new accessions thus far to College are ahead of those of last year, much to our relief, for it was not thought that we could have over 50 new students, whereas we have about 70. 
Thursday September 24, 1863. Cool winds and rains begin to show 
us the approaches of fall and winter. 
Friday September 25, 1863. This evening our regular Fae. meeting was held. The cheif matter of discussion was the increase of the Library and the best means to obtain it. It was finally agreed to examine our Library and see what books we have in the several departments and then make a Catalogue of wants for immediate use. 
Albany 
Saturday September 26, 1863. To Albany at 10 on business and 
afterwards to the Sec. States Off., Dr. O'Callaghan's room, 4th storey, 
to examine the old records for facts relating to Schen: This is a rich 
mine for the antiquarian, but some of it hard to get at, being covered 
up in crabbed Dutch of 17th Cent. 
Sunday September 27, 1863. At home with wife. 
Monday September 28, 1863. We now have under consideration in the faculty the increase of our Library, which is wholly inadequate to our wants --a miserable apology in fact for a Library. We first desire to distribute 600 Ds. among the various departments of knowledge yearly, and farther to devise the means of expending 5000 or 10,000 more by donations from the friends of the College. 
I have not great expectations of success. Our graduates have not been educated to a filial feeling towards Alma Mater. She is looked upon as a Mother-in-law who has no claim upon her children. This is one of the worst evils which Dr. Notts administration has entailed upon us. He has always been averse to any of these arrangements which would cultivate kindly feeling towards the Coll. He desired nothing to be done which he could not do himself and which would not redown to his credit. Hence Alumni Meetings and Commencement dinners and gatherings were discouraged and students all sent away before Commencement --in fine, everything tending to give eclat to the occasion put down. 
Tuesday September 29, 1863. Then, as to funds, the Alumni have never been asked to give towards the endowment of the Coll. or Library; on the contrary it has been given out for 30 yrs. that Dr. N. had endowed the Coll. bountifully. In consequence the benevolence of the Alumni has been quenched in the wondrous reports of what U. 
C. is to be or to have. The warm affections of the Alumni are worth more to U. C. than all she has or ever expects to have from Dr. N. 
Wednesday September 30, 1863. I am convinced that if anything is done for Coll. by charitable donations it must be set in motion by the young men of the Faculty and of these not over two or three will do anything. Now too is the time to ask for money when it is plenty and all are getting rich by trade &c. 
Thursday October 1, 1863. This evening I go to N. Y. to pay interest 
on Preferred Certif. 
N.York Friday October 2, 1863. Leaving home last night at 6.50, I came by boat (H. Hudson) to N. Y., arriving at 9 o'clock, went to St. Nicholas, got breakfast and then to 434 Broome St., Mr. C. Ely's office, where remained till 3 o'clock, then to 37 Park Row and paid off Mr. Wm Judson's interest, thence on board the Steamboat H. Hudson for home. 
H. S. Anable goes up with me to bring down his mo[ther]. Rain all night. 
Albany and home Saturday October 3, 1863. Arrived in Albany at 7 1/2 o'clock. Breakfast at Delavan Hotel and to Sec. State's office, Dr. O'Callaghan's Room, to examine the ancient records and papers for facts relating to Scherr. Home at 6.40 and found all well, thanks to a kind Providence. 
Saturday October 4, 1863. For a year and half I have endeavored to find materials for the Hist. of Scherr., but with indifferent success. The Ch. Government and inhabitants of S[chenectady] have very little to reward one's success. The Church has its Doop Boek nearly entire from 1694: list of Ch. mem[bers] , Dea[cons] and Elders -.nothing more. The doings of its Consistory were probably never recorded till a comparatively late period. The Government under the City Charter has its minutes entire probably, but under the Trustees or borough Charter nothing and yet it is hardly probable that there were none. 
Monday October 5, 1863. A few old lease books and accounts are all that we find a hundred years old. This being the case, the early history must be sought for elsewhere and especially among the records of the City of Albany and Secretary of State. 
Tuesday October 6, 1863. I often ask the question, "What would have been the result had the Dutch of the 17th cent. held their possessions in Am.[erica] ,why did they not? They commenced earlier and held a far more favorable portion of the country than the New Englanders whether for trade or agriculture. Yet at the end of the Dutch rule in 1664 probably N. E. had 5 or 6 times the population, better schools, churches, more commerce, a higher state of agriculture and indeed in all respects was superior to their Dutch neighbors. 
Wednesday October 7, 1863. In the first place it is necessary to look [at] the different systems of colonization, for the Dutch were an enterprizing, industrious people and as capable of forming a flourishing colony here as the English. The settlements were begun in both cases by companies incorporated in the Mother Country. The English Company shortly after it began its existence was transferred to this side --both direct[ ors and members --henceforth all elections were held here and the governing power existed among the people and was of them. 
Thursday October 8, 1863. The Dutch W[est] I[ndia] Co. was a gigantic trading association with great wealth and vast resources in money and ships, and altho' by its charter colonization was to be promoted, the ruling spirit was that of gain, and the settlement of the country was always of secondary consideration with the Directors. And well this might be, for the governing power resided in Holland and was only represented here by its Governor and servants who ... 
Friday October 9, 1863 .... felt more interest in the fur trade with the natives than in forwarding the settlement of the country. Indeed it is pretty certain that it was not the aim of the Co[mpany] to encourage immigrants of education,á intelligence and wealth to settle here lest they should interfere with the government and trade. And when after some years it was represented to the States General that this magnificent country was yet utterly without population, the Company simply gave assent to a kind of colonisation scheme which was evidently intended for the benefit of its own directors and which, if it had been generally carried out to success, would have ruined the country for generations. 
Saturday October 10, 1863. I mean the plan of colonisation by Patroons who as feudal lords took up immense tracts of the best land on condition of sending over a few settlers whom they held as vass[a]ls after the plan of the nobles of Europe. The tendency of this system, if it had been successful, would have been to divide the 
whole country among a favored few, giving no scope nor opportunity 
for the developement of individual enterprize, and discouraging all 
immigration save of the lowest classes of boors and laborers, tenants 
of the Lords. 
Magoun and wife came up today to stay over Sunday. I am told that in hay and oats contracts for Government he has gained $50,000 á the past year. 
Sunday October 11, 1863. At home with wife. 
Monday October 12, 1863. Magoun and w[ife] left this noon for home. Poor M[ary] A[nn]: she lived not to enjoy the satisfaction of seeing her grown-up son or of the prosperity of her husband. A kind Providence knew what was best for her. 
Tuesday October 13, 1863. The pranks of students as well as other young men are sometimes harmless but when carried to excess, as they are often, are become mischeivous. It is not seldom that green or vain young men are the butts of these pranks. So it has been lately here. A young Sophomore (Clement) --vain but otherwise harmless, of good character for morals and studiousness --has become possessed that he has a mission to perform in Coll. as a Reformer. This notion was cherished and encouraged by some wags, who finally induced him to organize a society. The sport they cheifly had with him was in listening to his speeches and in mock applause. Not having discretion, however, to stop when enough was done, they carried the matter so far as to invite the interference of the authorities of Coll. Some think Clement crazey on this point. 
Wednesday October 14, 1863. I have been cautious in injuring the authority of Dr. N. or Dr. Hickok by fault-finding to strangers or outsiders. Their modes of govern[ment] and action are quite different. Dr. H. 's management has now continued so long that we can judge of his success or failure. It has some good qualities, some bad. His outspoken honesty and frankness are commendable because one knows always where to find him. His patience, good nature and forebearance are also commendable. Yet I fancy I see a lack of sufficient authority to command in all situations respect and obedience. 
Thursday October 15, 1863. Young men soon find out how far they can go and not suffer for it and they always take full length of the rope and carry off rope and all if allowed. Now Dr. H. cannot by his presence and voice command that obedience and obtain that quiet in presence of the young men which it is desirable he should do. In 
fine, I do not College.  think  him  an  eminent  disciplinarian  or  governor  of  
Friday October 16, 1863. The weathweather --warm and balmy as spring.  er  is wonderfu lly  fine for f all  
Albany  

Saturday Octoberl 7, 1863. Spent all day in Albany in looking some old Dutch records in the Co. Clerk's office called "Notarial Papers," which are in fact deeds, leases, wills &c&c. ,which were executed before and recorded by the ancient Dutch Notary of Albany. Got some facts bearing on Schen. but not many. Home at 6.40. 
Sunday October 18, 1863. At home with wife. 
Monday October 19, 1863. What a whorl of excitement we have lived in for three years! The most terrible war of any age, derangement of finances, increase of taxes, increase of vices. All for what! to sustain a cruel slavery on the one hand and a benign Government on the other. If war is right, then our Government may be right in continuing the war, but the Rebellion in origin and continuance is as wicked as it well can be. 
Tuesday October 20, 1863. There have been great rejoicings over the result of elections in Penn. and Ohio. They are looked upon as sustaining the Administration. Our distresses clearly point out the patriot and the partlzan. There are too many men who would sacrifice country and her interests to obtain office and power. Such never see any good in any party but their own. This war has been prolonged by two causes: 1st, by the constant fault-finding and want of sympathy of the opponents of Administration here at the North; 2nd, by the countenance given to the Rebels in Europe, and the hopes they have had of recognition and help. 
Wednesday October 21, 1863. This morning Aunt Smart of Niles, Mich. arrived on a visit. She is my father's youngest sister, now a woman of about 60. 
Thursday October 22, 1863. In the hist. of this country there never was a time when labor was so scarce as now. All trades are short of help and it is impossible to get any work done with promptness. [It] should hardly have been anticipated that the withdrawal of those who form our armies would have made so great a demand for the labor of those remaining. 
Friday October 23, 1863. With Dr. Backus I went to the Cemetery to see the plot lately graded for a College burial spot. It is the finest in the grounds and is ready for seeding. How soon will the new-made earth be planted with our dead, no one knows. 
Saturday October 24, 1863. With wife rode out to the twine factory of Henry Crane to see his father, Mr. Jonathan Crane. He is a good old man; found him busy distributing tracts among the factory people. He tells me he intends spending the winter with his daughters in Han[ni]bal Mo.; Rev. Mr. Bliss, his son-in-law, is to be Gen. Agent of the Am[erican] Tract Soc. for that state. á 
Sunday October 25, 1863. At home. Read a sermon to wife. 
Monday October 36, 1863. Last night our Prof. Chandler had a daughter born to him --his first. His wife Anna is dau[ghter] of James R. Craig and grand-dau[ghter] of Dr. Archibald Craig, late of this place. Prof. Chandler now lives in the "South Colonnade" directly back of Dr. Hickok's house. 
Tuesday October 27, 1863. The several occupants of the different houses on the Hill, as far as I have learned them, have been as follows: á 
N. end of N. Coll.: Dr. Macauley, Joel Nott, Prof. I. W. Jackson (now) 
So. end of N. Coll.: Dr. Andr. Yates, Dr. Joslin, Dr. Reed, Dr. Newman, Prof. N. G. Clark (now) 
N. end of South Coll.: Dr. Nott, Dr. Potter, D. Nott again, Dr Hickok (now) 
South end of So. College: Dr. Brownell, Dr. Proudfit, Dr J. A. Yates, Dr. Lewis (now) 
S.Colonnade H.: Dr. Potter, Howard Nott, Dr. Nott, Alex. Holland, 
J. Pearson (2 years), J. Newman, Dr. Nott, Dr. Nott alone, C. F. Chandler (now). 
Wednesday October 28, 1863. This is the busy week for politicians spouting! spouting! all over the country, trying to gull the peole with false pretences, and get votes by guile. 'Tis thought the Democratic Party so:..called will fail to carry the State. The fact is they are in a false position. They have always ruled the country by tact and acute management --by feeling the pulse of the people and then admin.istering according. 
This party has always been a war and pro-slavery party. Now they are a peace party which they never were before and, inasmuch as war is always popular with the multitude, this party is in the minority. It opposes this war because Abr. Lincoln happens to be Capt. Genl. of the forces; were it otherwise, they would be in favor of the war. And again this party has always been a pro-slavery party but, having lost its acuteness and failing to see that the people are getting to be antislavery in sentiment, it has kept on in the old track and are now left high and dry on the shore. 
Thursday O ctober 29, 1863. The weather is lovely. This whole month has been an Indian Summer. 
I have added to my house lot another piece of land on the rear of it running back to "Nott Place," making my whole lot about 400 ft. deep and 78 ft wide. This additional 200 ft. I buy of College for 500$. I bought it not so much because I needed it as to prevent someone getting it whom I should not like as a neighbor. 
Friday October 30, 1863. Our faculty meeting was held tonight. Nothing worthy of note save that -Prof. J. got into one of his foolish heats and talked in a foolish manner. It was about a law of the Trustees requiring Profs. who absent themselves from Coll. to obtain permission of the Pres. and one Trustee. J[ackson] said this was an insulting law and he should go away whenever he thought best. However, as all know his unhappy failing, it did not make much impression. 
Saturday October 31, 1863. Rain. My friend. P. Ryley Toll, tells me he has sold his house (for $10,000) and will remove to Ill[inois] in the spring, for a year or two. He is an excellent man and I am sorry to have him leave town. 
Dr. Hickok has a project to raise 50,000 Doll. to repair the Colleges, finish Graduates Hall and enlarge the Library. I hope he will be sucessful. 
Sunday November 1, 1863. At home with wife; read D'Aubigne's Hist. of Reformation in Holland Dutch. 
Monday November 2, 1863. This is pay day for Coll. Officers, and notwithstanding the falling off of our income from students the condition of our finances is satisfactory. The war has diminished our numbers about one third. 
Tuesday November 3, 1863. The stimulus of a thousand millions of dollars which our government has already expended on this rebellion is visible everywhere. The nominal prices of everything have increased as paper money goes down, .and the demand for labor has increased from the immense draft of men for the army. Everyone seems to be building, repairing, and buying. Fortunes are made; and a general show of prosperity appears on the surface of things. But the day of change must come upon the nation; its finances must give away to the constant issue of paper if this war does not soon end. 
Wednesday November 4, 1863. Mo[ther] Harvey came down froni 
Geneva on Monday last. Our tutor Deremer is down with a mild fever, and in consequence his classes are not heard. 
Thursday November 5, 1863. Aunt Smart left for Niles, Mich. this morning. She is my fa[ther's] youngest sister, and m[arried] Jacob Smart in Great Falls N. H. about 1828. About 6 yrs. ago they moved 
to Niles from New Market, N. H. They have 3 sons and 3 dau[ghters]. The sons are mechanics like the fa[ther]: one is at home in his fa[ther's] shop, one an engine driver in Ill., and one takes care of an engine on a plantation in Cuba. 
Friday November 6, 1863. This evening the Fae. held a meeting to discuss the matter of Tutor Deremer's sickness and the provision to be made for hearing his classes. Prof. Foster will hear the Freshmen and the Sophs. will not be heard at present. Fa[ther] Harvey came last evening for Mo[ther] H. and tonight starts with her for Brooklyn. 
Saturday November 7, 1863. I have added to my house lot two hundred feet in the rear, making my lot nearly or quite 400 ft. by about 78 ft wide. This addition,, bought of Coll., cost me 500 Ds. I have also built a small barn upon it. This is the result of a little saving of my salary. 
Sunday November 8, 1863. Attended Bapt. Ch. in forenoon. Mr. Day preached. Rainy and few out. 
Monday Nov~mber 9, 1863. The depreciation of our paper currency is now about 1/3 --gold selling for 147. The consequence is that all household expenses are increased at least 1 / 4, and persons on a fixed income before this disturbance of the currency find it difficult to make both ends meet. But if we feel this at North, what must the people of the South suffer where their currency is to gold as 11 or 12 to one? Unless the war closes soon, things must get worse rather than better. 
Tuesday November 10, 1863. This morning the Sheriff served upon the Trustees of Un. Coll. a summons at the suite of Stillman, Allen, & Co. This suit seems to contemplate the payment of Doct. Notts [debts?] by Union College. It seems that certain creditors of Doct. N. in New York have combined to extort from the College money which they think or pretend to think Dr. N. should have paid to them and not to College. The whole matter only shows the loose and unbusinesslike manner of the Doct's financial operations. 
Wednesday November 11, 1863. Doct. Hickok is talking of making an effort to raise 50,000 Doll. for the relief of College --to finish Grad. Hall, renovate the old dormitories and increase the Library. I have some doubts whether he is the man for the work; he has too little tact and suavity to deal with men of the world, I fear. 
Thursday November 12, 1863. The weather for the season is charming --Indian Summer indeed. In spite of all the derangement of finances, there never was a time when certain persons made so much money as at present. All factories (but cotton) are driven with work, all materials for the war in great demand. My bro-in-law M[agoun] says he made 50,000 Ds. last year in supplying the Govern't with hay. Such are the fortunes made. The Govern't is using its credit at the rate of 1,000,000,000. Doll. a year and 100,000 of its best citizens to put down this rebellion. 
Friday November 13, 1863. Saw Dr Nott. Poor old man! He looks feeble and distressed, his mind quite shattered: memory gone and childish and nervous. Such, at least, is the end of intellect and greatness so-called here below. We descend to second childhood and are led by a little child. 
Saturday November 14, 1863. Bought a political satire in scripture style called the "New Gospel of Peace," which has had an immense run. Judge P[aige] says we must now gird to and fight the conspirators who are plotting to rob College of its rights in the shape of creditors of Dr. Nott, and I think it is time; there has been too much delay already in this matter. Indeed I do not see how most lawyers succeed at all in their profession with all the delays, inexcusable delays, to which they put their clients. 
Sunday November 15, 1863. At home with wife. Rain abundant. 
Monday November 16, 1863. My side-labors evenings are the examination of all printed works which contain anything relating to Schenectady and its early families. Whenever anything is found, copy it. Thus I have been thro' the 10 Vols. of Colonial records, the 4 Vols. of Documentary Hist., 10 Vols Munsell's Hist. of Alb[any], O'Callaghan's Hist. N. Netherlands &c&c. 
Tuesday November 17, 1863. I have also copied all the early Dutch Ch. records (of Schen.) --900 fol[io] pp. of baptisms (over 11,000), also marriages, and church members. The baptised children I have "posted" into families down to 1800, an immense labor. This copying and posting these records took me more than 1 1/2 yrs. working several hours every evening. 
Wednesday November 18, 1863. These families are contained in two volumes of nearly 2000 pp. and to them I make additions from all sources but particularly from old Dutch Bibles which here and there can be found in old garrets and out of the [way] places. Much valuable information can sometimes be found in these old books, locked up in the Dutch language, and quite unintelligible to any but a patient mouser. But one thing I lack to fully develope all the sources hidden and open of the Hist. of Schen. and that is time. My duties are so exacting that all I do must be stolen from business or be done at night 
Thursday November 19, 1863. Another project I have, in part carried into execution, to copy all the gravestone inscriptions in the old township of Schen. My nephew Edw. Magoun and son John have done most of this work for me. Formerly --but not so much now -.the Dutch buried upon their own farms; consequently all over the country may be seen solitary graves grown up with briers, neglected and going to decay; if these are not soon copied, their records will be forever lost. 
Friday November 20, 1863. Most of these I have copied, also all the public burying grounds out of the city. Another source of historical information are the pub[lic] records at Albany --rich in information but so voluminous, in such hard chirography, often in Dutch, that it takes much time toáá sift and gain the grain of facts desired. Dr. O'Callaghan of the Sec. States office is quite accommadating and skillful in all these old records; all I need to profit by his experience and kindness is time. One month in Albany would open treasures beyond price. When shall I get the time? 
Saturday November 21, 1863. To Albany to see Mr. Munsell about the printing of our Catalogue and Calendar. Went up to the Co. Clerk's Office where looked over Book A of Deeds in Dutch, 1656 to 1678. The head clerk desired me to help him decipher these deeds sufficiently to enable him to index the names of Grantor and Grantee. Finally he thought he would venture to lend me a vol. if I would mark these names in the margin. 
Sunday November 22, 1863. Fine day. No cold weather yet this fall. We have not had so fine a fall for many years. At home all day. 
Monday November 23, 1863. Finding it quite impossible to make desirable progress in historical researches relating to Schen. without the Dutch language, I have within the last two years acquired a tolerable knowledge of that tongue so that I can now read it with tolerable ease. I find it cousin german to the Anglo-Saxon, quite easy to learn, simple and pure. One remarkable feature of it is its freedom 
from  foreign  words,  which  are  not  admitted  unless  absolutely  
necessary.  
Tuesday  November  24, 1863.  The  champion  of  American  

Institutions just now appears to be the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, whose able advocacy of his country in the midst of great opposition in Great Britain has met with great satisfaction on this side of the ocean. From being one of the best abused men of these times, he is now in danger of being spoiled with flattery; such are the changes which time and circumstances make in mens opinions. Once he was spurned by the men who now embrace him as a hero; and yet he preaches the same anti-slavery doctrines as ever. 
Wednesday November 25, 1863. Tomorrow being Thanksgiving Day, we have no more recitations until Monday to give opportunity for those who choose to visit their friends. When we were expecting our armies to pass into winter quarters and a long period of inactivity, we all at once find them all in motion from North to South. Grant attacks Bragg at Chat[t]anooga. Meade follows Lee over the Rapidan, and the Rebel Longstreet prepares to attack Burnside at Knoxville. May God grant us a speedy deliverance from our hot and sore trials! 
Thursday November 26, 1863. I attended morning service at the Dutch Church where Dr. Seelye preached a truly edifying sermon. House quite crowded. 
Friday November 27,.1863. To Albany this morning to look after our Catalogue now printing at Mr. Munsells printery. Also called at the County Clerks office and was permitted [to] take home two of the first volumes of deeds, in the Dutch, for examination. This is quite a favor to me as well as to the Clerk, who desires my assistance in indexing the same. 
Saturday November 28, 1863. Rain. So many of the students are away that College Hill seems much like vacation. A sad and sudden death took place yesterday. Mr. H. N. Walton was found dead in his office, lying upon the floor --cause probably apoplexy. He was a man much respected. 
Sunday November 29, 1863.1 Colder, tho' not winter weather. At home with wife. 
Monday November 30, 1863. Winter approaches very slowly. The weather is still fine, and ground nearly without frost. We have had no snow. The longer cold weather holds off, the better for the poor who find the very high price of coal a heavy tax upon their slender resources. No one article has occasioned so much discussion as that of fuel, and it is pretty well proved that coal is at least 3$ pr. ton higher that it should be and all this by the combination of those companies which bring it to market. 
Tuesday December 1, 1863. The session is almost at a close; next we wind [down?] on Thursday, and have a recess for three weeks. On the whole it has been a comfortable and profitable term of study; no untoward event has happened to mar its progress. There has been some sickness but no death in College. Our tutor Deremer is still sick, having had a relapse from a mild fever of a remittent type. 
Wednesday December 2, 1863. This is the first time that our fall session extended beyond Thanksgiving Day and there seemed some doubt as to how the change would be carried out. Those who desired it were permitted to go home on Wed. to return on Saturday. The arrangement operated well, everything was quiet and no excesses 
among those who remained. 
Thursday December 3, 1863. This evening the Faculty met to arrange for the closing Examinations so-called. As usual J[ackson], who hates Dr. H. got excited, made an unpleasant show of himself. H[ickok], being without polish, blunt and honest, is apt to tread on somebody's toes and, if that somebody is irritable or self-conceited, there is sure to be a scene. It is quite unfortunate that H. has no more suavity; he means well, but something more is wanted to make him successful in his office. 
Friday December 4, 1863. This evening the Fae. met again to arrange 
the order of studies for next session. 
Saturday December 5, 1863. Nights are cold, the days bright and 
ward [hard?]; not much ice is yet formed, none in the river or canal, 
and no snow. 
Sunday December 6, 1863. Communion season at Bapt. Ch. Attended 
in forenoon. 
Monday December 7, 1863. We commence this morning our closing 
examinations. No outside examiners are invited to be present but all 
the Professors are expected to attend the recitations of the other 
Profs when not busied with their own. 
Tuesday December 8, 1863. In political circles, the immediate matter of interest is the meeting of Congress and the message and reports of the Pres. and Secretaries. In financial circles nearer home, a great excitement rages over the election of Directors for the N. Y. Cent. R.R. Co. which is to be held tomorrow in Albany. Two cheif objections to the Corning direction are uneconomical management 
áand a meddling with political matters; cheifly state elections. 
Wednesday December 9, 1863. I closed my last recitation for this session this afternoon. Our plan of exam. now is to give two hours to each recitation, little enough and indeed much too small a space to bring out the knowledge of each pupil. 
Thursday December 10, 1863. We close College tonight. The Pres. message causes much discussion, especially his method to bring back the seceded states and his firm stand against the future existence of slavery. It is notable how this war is bringing all inen to one inevitable conclusion --that slavery must die, or the nation become extinct. Only Gods severe judgements have brought us to this point, and whatever may be the result of this war, slavery can never survive long the blow. 
Friday December 11, 1863. Solitude reigns on the Hill. Dr. Hickok is preparing to present himself to the graduates of U. C. and ask for 
50,000 to 100,000 Doll. for the various needs of the Institution. 
Money must be had or we go behind our sister Colls. With so many rich alumni who have never done anything for Alma Mater, it is a shame if we cannot raise these necessary sums. 
Saturday December 12, 1863. I said Dr. H. proposes to appeal to our graduates for aid. Yet I fear he is not the man to be successful in this enterprize. He wants some of the requisite characteristics for this business. Still, if he could only do what he proposes it would be much to his advantage as well as that of the Coll. He needs just this success to stop the mouths of his carping enemies and give him position and eclat. 
Sunday December 13, 1863. Pouring rain all day. At home. 
Monday December 14. 1863. The rise in the prices of all necessaries of life from the disturbance of values by the substitution of paper for gold obliges all who labor to ask a corresponding increase in wages. Our Professors, who were living comfortably on 1500 Ds. sal[ary], now find themselves stinted, and their pay quite inadequate; n the end it must come that their sal. will be raised. 
Tuesday December 15, 1863. The progress of events in this country [is] wonderful. This dreadful war is a sad teacher, and men whose minds seemed wedded to opinions at variance with the progress of truly free institutions are now the most radical. Hardly any one now believes or desires that slavery shall out-live this war. Of course, there are still a few who cling to the old idol of abominations but the great mass of men heartily wish and believe that it has come. 
Wednesday December 16, 1863. Our national finances have been the subject of much anxious thought and fear; thus far all admit they have on the whole been wisely managed and, if the war ceases, soon we may recover and come back after a time to a wholesome state. Still, I fear our great expenses will continue so long that inevitable disorder may occur. We are now as a nation like a fast young who has come into his property, the earning of a life time of his father with toil, which he is spending in five years. Our wealth and credit we are now spending at a fearful rate. 
Thursday December 17, 1863. My evenings now are spent in examining the early records of the Albany Co. Clerks office: some 6 vols. are in Dutch of the toughest kind, which requires great patience to read. Some thing[s] I find of interest for Schen., though but little. 
Friday December 18, 1863. Today our Finance Committee held a meeting in Albany at the house of E. C. Delavan There were present: 
E. C. Delavan, Judge A. C. Paige, Hon. C. B. Cochrane, Dr. Backus mem[bers] of the Comm[ittee; and Hon. Wm. W. Campbell, Dr. Hickok. 
The cheif business was the discussion of a project for raising $100,000 to renovate our buildings, erect others, add to the Library &c. It was unanimously thought that the money is indispensible and now is the time to raise it. I fear, however, that we shall not get [it] --that all our talk will end in talk without corresponding exertion. 
U.Coll. has been spoiled for all such projects. Dr. N. apparently never wanted anyone to have any credit for liberality to U. C. but himself, and altho he was always talking about getting great subscriptions, and it was thought he was just the man to get money for Coll., nothing ever came of it. 
It is hard to judge a man, but I cannot but condemn his whole life of financial operations regarding the Coll. All his money obtained has been accompanied by reproach, discredit, lawsuits and legislative investigations, and U. C. will not recover from these evils in half a century. Our standing is such in [the] community that we cannot appeal to our ought-to-be friends for aid because suspicion hangs over all our financial operations. 
Saturday December 19, 1863. Our whilom College servant, Christ[ian] Reagles, for many years an efficient man about Coll. is near his end, with consumption. Thus pass away the ancient men and new ones come in their places. 
Sunday December 20, 1863. At home all day with wife 
Albany Monday December 21, 1863. To Albany and spent the day in Dr O'Callaghan's office, in Sec't. States office, examing the early Col[onial] mss. for matters relating to the early Hist. of Schen. The first 22 volumes are in Dutch and hard to read; the remainder are in English and fill many volumes. Unfortunately many of these papers have been rendered illegible from having remained in the hold of a ship some time after the British left N. Y. in the Revolutionary War. 
Albany Tuesday December 22, 1863. To Albany again. The consultation of the Col. mss. is much facilitated by an exellent callender or abstract of the papers. They need, however, an alphabetical index to make the reference more perfect: and this index, together with the Calender, should be printed. 
Wednesday December 23. 1863. One of our oldest citizens, one of respectability and probity, died today --Mr Cornelius Groot, for more than 50 years a prosperous merchant here. He was a little man, modest and retiring, constantly behind his counter, and never engaged in anything else. He was about 82 yrs. of age --died of paralysis. People thot. he would live to a 100. 
Thurs December 24, 1863. We have steady, clear, cold weather, 3 in. of snow and ice and good sleighing and skating, now much in vogue with the young people. 
All the churches in town have Christmas trees for the Sunday School children. The charitable also provide bountifully for the soldier families. 
Friday December 25, 1863. Beautiful sunshiny day. At home all day with wife. Am still at work upon áthe Dutch records of Alb. Clerks off. --on two last vols., called "Notarial papers," containing contracts, powers of attor'y., wills, bonds &c. One herein finds a picture of the times. In two cases of homicide the culprits w[ere] as acquitted of all charge and blame by the friends of the dec[eased]d instead of being tried before a court and jury as in these times. Wills were mostly made by the man and his wife unitedly. Transactions of apparently a trifling nature were thought worthy of record i.e. horse trades and sale of other moveable articles. 
Saturday December 26, 1863. Mr. Gilbert, my clerk, has gone west on a short jaunt and am alone in office. 
To prevent entrance to Chapel by the windows, am having stout shutters made inside with bars. One week more of vacation. Edward Magoun came Thurs. night, left this morning. 
Sunday December 27, 1863. At home with wife. 
Monday December 28, 1863. My clerk Gilbert is away and I keep the office alone. 
The appeal which Dr. Hickok has written to the graduates of Union College is now about to be printed and circulated. What will be its effect remains to seen. My own impression is that nothing will come out of it of importance. U. C. has not the affections of its children. Dr. N. never in his power desired their aid, never asked it. What U. C. was to be, he desired all the glory for himself, and considered himself quite adequate to its prosperity and success. Had he succeeded to his utmost desire, the principle was wrong and suicidal to the College, because at his death she must die also or at least greatly decline. 
U. C. began to decline in numbers at the time of the Senate Investigation and its effects are still felt and will exist SO yrs. hence. The public have not confidence in an institution which it is believed has abused their confidence. Again the friends of Dr. N., taking their impressions from him before his entir~ breakdown, do not like Dr. Hickok altho' he was the Dr's choice, and I do not think they would care to give unless all the glory of it should redown to Dr. N. If Dr. H. is to have any credit, they will decline. For these reasons I believe we shall fail of the sum which we are askip.g for. I believe we must struggle on in our present condition until some man of controlling influence is called to our head who will reconcile all divisions and counteract all the baleful influences of the past. 
Tuesday December 29, 1863. Another injurious influence upon our credit, one of the inheritances of Dr. N's administration, is the Lowber lawsuit. He is not only a claimant himself of a large sum but he has stirred up other of Dr. N.'s creditors to put in a claim ag[ains]t. U. C. for debts said to have been incurred by Dr. N. The whole amount is more than $200,000. If these suits get abroad, the College will suffer materially in credit, and no one will give to it under the circumstances. 
Wednesday December 30, 1863. If anything is to be done for U. C. pecuniarily, it must be by a few rich men in New York. This is settled. At the last Fin. Com. meeting, it was talked over and some said Mr. James Brown ought to give 25000 Ds. and could as well as not; some said Mr. Blatchford ought to give the like sum, It was also suggested that Mr. Corning of Albany should be approached and might give a large sum as well as not. Now none of these men may give --they are rich but I have never heard of their being largely liberal. 
Thursday December 31. 1863. To Albany this forenoon to take over Reg[ents] Rep[ort] and get a proof from Munsell of our course of studies for next ~ession. Dr. Woolworth, Sec. of Regents, showed me an old orderly book of 1763 kept by one Lyon of Conn. --which book came from Kansas, having been sold.among the effects of the late Gen. Lyon. 
