
Friday January 1, 1864. Rainy in morning --cleared away, cold in evening. Made but one call --on Mrs. Nott. All day in office. 
Saturday January 2, 1864. Mr. Gilbert, my clerk, still sick. Busy about office. This vac[ation] have put up new shutters to our Chapef. Getting all things in readiness for starting off. 
Sunday January 3, 1864. Very cold. Home all day. 
Monday January 4, 1864. Our session opens today. Faculty meeting 
in the evening. Mr. Gilbert my clerk being sick, I have the whole 
business of the office upon my shoulders. 
Tuesday January 5, 1864. All day in the office quite busy with 
returning students. 
Wednesday January 6, 1864. We have heard of the death of the widow of the late Gov. Yates. She attained the great age of 92 yrs. and was quite vigourous to the last. She was a woman of character -.active and apt in business. 
Thursday January 7, 1864. Another very sudden death in á town -.Dr. Edward McCamus of the firm of McCamus and Co., Merchts. His áhealth has not been good for some time and on Sat. [he] was attacked with bleeding from the lungs. Recovering, he was tho't out of danger but another attack has carried him off. A worthy man, tho' of not 
great force of character. 
Friday January 8, 1864. Still confined to office by continued ill health of my clerk. My recitation is Algebra --a division of the Soph. Class, one of the most difficult studies in Coll. to teach and to make stud[ents] understand. 
Saturday January 9, 1864. Dr. McCamus funeral today. My clerk Mr. Gilbert still sick but improving. 
Sunday January 10, 1864. At home. 
Monday January 11, 1864. Our session in College opens favorably 
and all things go on smoothly. 
Tuesday January 12, 1864. The general rise of all 1864 prices, by reason in part of the taxes and depreciation of currency, bears hard upon those who live upon salaries. Our Profs. already begin to feel the insufficiency of their incomes and look around for relief. 
Wednesday January 13, 1864. It is quite as hard for College to raise the salaries of the Profs. as for them to live upon them, for as paper money is legal tender we receive no more income in currency than formerly in gold. What then is to be done? What is to be the future? Is our currency to go on depreciating, or will the war end before such a sad fate comes upon us? á 
Thursday January 14, 1863. I am still at work upon the old deed books of Alb. Co. in Dutch. u.se makes easy, and I rtow read them with considerable ease. The hist[ory] student finds here many curious things --a complete picture of the times so far as they go. 
Friday January 15, 1864. Fae. meeting this evening, nothing of consequence done. 
Saturday January 16, 1864. The renewal of our great armies is now going on all over the country by volunteering and large bounties; in many counties $1000 each is offered, and it is supposed that in most places the required number will be raised without recourse to a d[ra]ft. 
Sunday January 17, 1863. At home. 
Monday January 18, 1863. Every little community has its occasional tragedy --yea, almost every family, I might say. This remark is called out by one of those sad domestic occurences which toutch the hearts of all who become acquainted with them. 
Some years since, a young from Tennessee by the name of Northrup while in college here became acquainted with a Miss Veeder, dau[ghter] of Jno. G. Veeder. After his graduation they were married and removed to N. Y. where he has since practiced law. It would seem that they have not lived happily together, of late at least. She fancied, whether truly or not I know not, that he was unfaithful and, acting on this impression, left his house and came home to her father with her only child, a little girl. She also commenced a suit for divorce. About a month since, she took a severe cold, followed by a fever, and yesterday died. It is quite probable that her troubles had something to do with her sickness and death. 
Tuesday January 19, 1864. One of the saddest sights I see is the gathering squads of young hurrying thro' our streets to the rendezvous for volunteers for the Army. It is a dreadful necessity that draws away so many thousands from homes and peaceful pursuits to the slaughter grounds of our great armies. When will this world ever come to disbelieve in war and cease its horrible practice! 
Wednesday January 20, 1864. A cold raw blustering day. In P. M. went out to Mrs. Northrups, a mile south of the City. A prayer and address were made by Rev. Dr. Seelye. The husband was there and sat at the head of the coffin with, I doubt not, sad feelings: for whatever estrangements there were in life I can't hardly conceive that they should not all be buried with the dead. 
Thursday January 21, 1864. The usual Church fairs are held this winter as heretofore. I must say they appear to be in many respects objectionable and more especially as they are too often conducted without much regard to honor or law. Lotteries condemned by law and public opinion are openly drawn at these places. Another benevolent object is sought to be promoted this winter in all our great cit[ies] by fairs --the relief of the soldiers in the field and hospital. Almost fabulous sums have been raised in Chicago, Cincinnati, and Boston, and other cities are following in the same direction. 
Friday January 22, 1863. Our Professor Lewis has gone to Washington for the first time. His son Charles desires to get a place in the regular army and fancies his poor old father can help him in this respect at Head Quarters. I fear, however, the errand will be fruitless. 
U. C. and Albany Sunday [Saturday] July Uanuary] 23, 1864. Went to Albany at 9.45 and spent most of the day in Secretary of States' office looking over old mss. and books for matter relating to Schenectady. 
Sunday January 24, 1864. Attended Bapt. Ch. Rev. Mr. Day preached. 
Monday January 25, 1864. Among our Professors it is of[ten] discussed respecting the future of our Coll., especially its temporal and financial prospects. It is felt quite impossible to advance and ke[ep] up with the times without more money to put our library and buildings in better condition, but how to raise this money they have not decided. The Finance {Committee], after making a beginning by preparing a circular for the graduates, now wait and delay to go on with the project: and I am fully of the opinion that nothing will be done unless we can obtain a good, discreet and persevering agent who will devote his whole time to it. 
Tuesday January 26, 1864. We hear the sudden and sad news of the fall of another of our oldest and most respected citizens --Mr. Nicolas Van Vranken, who has been attacked with apoplexy and now lies at the point of death. He has been for many years a merchant here and a leading member of the Dutch Church. He was a near neighbor of Mr. Groot who but a few weeks since died of the paralysis. 
Wednesday January 27, 1864. Our snow is melting, hardly enough left for sleighing. 
H.S.Anable, College Agt. at Hunters Point, came up this morning on business of the College. Spent' most of the day with him. 
Thursday January 28, 1864. H. S. Anable left today for Albany and home. 
Friday January 29, 1864. Mr. Nicolas Van Vranken died today having sunk rapidly from the time of his attack and been unconscious from the commencement of his attack until his death. 
Saturday January 30, 1864. Being tlle last day of the mo. and quarter, busy in preparing for the paym't of salaries on Monday, the 1st Feb. 
Sunday January 31, 1864. At home with wife. 
Monday February 1, 1864. Pay day for all College officers. 
Tuesday February 2, 1864. The old people of Schen. are dropping pff rapidly and often with the same disease --paralysis. Today we learn that old Mrs. Holland wid[ow] of the late Treas. of U. C., Jonas H[olland], is attacked with paralysis and all of one side is dead. Her son Alex. and wife have come up to be with her: it is quite doubful if 
she survives this attack. 
Albany Wednesday February 3, 1864. Went to A[lbany] to meet H. S. Anable 
to help him get a bill started in the Legislature for chartering a Water Co. at Hunter Pt. Saw Brandreth of the Assembly who presented the Bill. Spent some hours in the Sec. of States office and 
with Mr. Munsel --home at 6. 
Thursday February 4, 1864. Dr, Nott has had another slight attack of paralysis, being the 4th. One who saw him says one eye is closed and his mouth drawn on one side. He is too feeble in his legs to stand or help himself. Poor old man! it wou}d be a blessing if he were delivered by death; life is a burthen to him. 
Friday February 5, 1864. The snow is almost disappeared and the weather is more like spring than mid-winter. 
Saturday February 6, 1864. Saw Judge P[aige] on business. Some days since I sent G. Lansing Oathout a copy of an old deed of his 1st ancestor in this country: Jan James 0., this will made about 1683 was curious and odd. I sent it thro' the P. 0. On receiving it he thought it a joke put upon him by some of his cronies and in a pet thrust it into the fire. I met him yesterday and on asking him how he liked it he was struck dumb, did not know what to say and finally acknowledged his haste and folly, and made an apology for it. 
Sunday February 7, 1864. Fine day. At Bapt. Church heard Mr. Day. Communion season at close of sermon. 
Monday February 8, 1864. The Baptist Church have resolved to hold a course of meetings next week every evening. A Mr. Burnham is to . preach: he has labored in Albany with some success. It is now some years since any of our city Chh. had a general awakening; indeed our dreadful war has filled all minds and employed all hands. 
Tuesday February 9, 1864. We are now commencing the 4th year of a war, unheard of for the obstinacy with which it has been fought by both sides. Few foresaw the severity of the contest and the terrible earnestness of the contestants; few supposed it possible that either side would persevere in the undertaking as they have done for 3 years. But as in all such cases the Scripture is ful[fil]led: "They that take the sword shall perish by the sword." 
Wednesday February 10, 1864. The southern hot-heads struck the first blow, thinking it but a holiday war show, and now the war is eating them up. We are all bad enough off, but no part of the country is in so terrible a condition as the South. Now as to the end of this contest, no one but God can foresee the result tho' we all think we see clearly His hand and direction in some respects. Slavery is by all acknowledged as dead or near its end; whatever the result of the war, slavery has received its death blow and can never again raise its brazen front over this country. Many profess to see the rebellion near its last gasp, but I do not clearly see such a result; a desperate struggle doubtless they will make to break thro' our lines and. recover some of their lost ground, and whether they are destined to fail in this God only knows. 
Thursday February 11, 1864. Old Mrs. Holland still lives indeed only lives. She grows daily weaker and cannot possibly survive many days, so they say. 
Friday February 12, 1864. Many old people have dropped off lately from our little community. Old Mr Christr. Reagles, who for many years was a faithful servant of the College, superintending all outdoor operations, is very low with consumption and cannot live many days probably. 
Albany Saturday February 13. 1864. Went to Albany at 8 o'clock to see about two bills before Legislature in which College is interested. (1.) a bill to change our Quorum of Trustees from 11 to 7 and (2.) a bill for a water company at Hunter's Point. 
The first I found was stopped because it was thought best that the change should be granted by the Regents of the Univ. And after talking with the Chair'n. of Comm., Mr. Benedict, one of the Reg[ents] and with Dr. Woolworth, the Secretary of Regents, it was agreed that application should be made in due form to the Regts. The second bill was stopped by 0. Charlack because his name was not placed among the Corporators. Wrote to Anable to compromise the matter with him some way. Spent the afternoon in Sect. State's office, Dr. O.'Callaghan's room, looking over Col[onial] mss. Home at 6 o'clock. 
Sunday February 14, 1864. Home all day with wife. 
Monday February 15, 1864. It is now some months since our Fin. Com. met and passed resolutions to begin a subscription in favor of the Coll., and not a thing had been done toward it save the printing a circular which lays undistributed. It is and has been quite evident to me that nothing will be done unless a diff[erent] course is taken. We must look around for a good trustworthy, indefatigable agent who will put his heart and strength into this work. Unless this be done, we shall get nothing, and it is strange that our authorities do not see this. 
Tuesday February 16, 1864. So far as Dr. H[ickok] is concerned, it is generally conceded that he can do nothing. He is not fitted for the work, and not having the confidence of the friends of Dr. N. who made him President, his influence will be null with them. 
Wednesday February 17, 1864. Yesterday and today have been the most severe of the season. This P. M. old Mrs. Holland was buried from the Ch. (Dutch). Dr. Seelye made a short speech on the occasion and old Dr. Van Vechten read a short sermon. Thus ends another family in Schen.; but one son, Alexander, is left and he resides in N. 
Y. Jonas and Alex. were both Treas. of U. C. for many years --nearly or quite 3 0 years. 
Thursday February 18, 1864. In regard to the civil war now raging, it seems to be the impression now pretty general[ly] that this year will be the last (why I do not know) and that the rebels will make a strenuous effort to prolong it in hopes that our financial troubles will force us to close with them. To prolong the war, they think, is to bury us so irretrievably in debt that our moneyed men will be glad to compromise on any terms. This doubtless is their best hope and dependence. Our finances, if the war continues, must go on from bad to worse and I do not see how we can carry the wad of debt that will be thrown upon us. But God reigns and will bring in his own time peace out of this confusion. 
Friday February 19, 1864. We send from our College Cabinet a choice collection of minerals to the Albany Bazar for the Sanitary Comm. These are for display in the Curiosity depart't. Great sums are expected to be raised from Exhibition for our poor soldiers in the <.: field. The sheds for this Bazar cover the whole of Academy Park. ~ 
)-.
~ 
Saturday February 20, 1864. At 8 o'clock started for Troy. On the 
...+-. 
train saw a sad sight --the County Clerk of Albany County, :._ ~ltb*"'W~ttW~fi~**~ftiYht*~W*I~*"'elt~t'W'*~"fk~*ft~~~~*Wt~~tt** ~ ************************************************************************
~ 
Mif-.´M~*~*~.M´*.f.f-R-IJ1*-!J..,p-PJ..~*1..P**i´~}*q.*~f.Pll-~!lf?****1.P*~*tf*tt*.t-.P~
e 
);~~1.P**~t*.tA~*fl.J.i..~t*i)iiti..PA*~~J*q.~*~.fil-i~****t~f**~i~f.f)i~tt***!~}f
ro 
is ;:i f;:iir comment-on our choice of oublic officers ¥ .at Trov
*""k~*~**~~****~~~*'K~***~*~*~~*******************************************
I 
1
MW*~~~*A~~fAAQ~-ilJA.t.*t!J.p**~~.fA~~*~p*~~~~***1~fA*t~*JJ***l.f.P~*~~{ ~~t*J:)1i*rti1tt*~*.f*q.11f.f*t.i~*.r-)i-*W***';.~~´*A~~.f,**t~Jf**t~**\1;.;*~~*~f~a.
1ector anou taxing our rents ana co Ainany oy ttorse Kaiiroa 
*********Jas.B. Sanders about the pay't. of the Campbell mortgage -.the parties not being ready, I left the papers with him for collection on Monday. Spent 3 hours at Co. Clerks of. looking over old deeds. Then home. Saw Dr. VanSantvoord, my classmate, a Chaplin in the Army just from Nashville. 
Sunday February 21, 1864. At home with wife. 
Monday February 22, 1864. Being Washington's birthday, we have had much difficulty to keep College exercises up to their wonted regularity. About half the Sopho. Class "bolted." In consequence we held a faculty meeting to consider what was to be done and, after consultation, it was thought best under the circumstances to reduce the standing of the "bolters" and get a pledge from them of future good conduct in this respect. 
Tuesday February 23, 1864. My birthday; today I am 51 years old. Am I an old man now or a young? My years warn me of the downhill of life, yet blest as I am with good health I feel none of the ailments of old age. A kind Providence has favored me; for all His favors I feel unfeignedly thankful. 
Wednesday February 24, 1864. In the Bapt. Church a series of meetings are held with preaching by a Mr. Burnham. May God's blessing accompany their efforts to do good to our sinful city. Our Chh. have long been in a dead state. Coll. is also in need of more true religious feeling, which it is to hoped will be aided by tomorrow's exercises. 
Thursday February 25, 1864. Today Fast Day for Coll. and schools. Our exercises in Chapel at 10 o'clock were a sermon by Rev. Henry C. 
Potter of Troy Epis., son of Rt. Rev. A. Potter, Bp. of Penn., who was present on this occasion. He is a young man of talent and culture, and his sermon showed good literary ability and thought. A little more of the le[a]ven of the Gospel would have pleased some. In evening he preached in the Epis. Ch. 
Friday February 26, 1864. Our old College servant Christopher Reagles is dead. He served College more than 40 yrs. but 3 yrs. since was obliged to retire on acc't of ill health --consumption. 
Saturday February 27, 1864. Today, 3 o'clock, we buried our old friend Reagles. Services were held in 2nd Dutch Ch. A large number of friends and acquaintances were present. So pass away, one after another, the old servants and Prof. of Coll. There are now but 2 persons remaining connected with Coll. who were here when I came in 1831 --Dr. Nott and Prof. Jackson. How soon will death again diminish this number? Saw Dr. N. this evening for a moment, helpless and feeble, sitting in his great armchair. "Pearson," says he, "what is the state of the country. I am troubled about the country. But do your duty and take care of things." 
Sunday February 28, 1864. At home with wife. 
Monday February 29, 1864. Prof. W. M. G[illespie] tells me as a secret that he is to be married in April, a surprise indeed! for we had considered him a bachelor confirmed and past redemption. He is quite SO years old, set in his ways, particular and nice, orderly and precise. A wife of his will require great patience and good temper to adapt herself to his ways. 
Tuesday March 1, 1864. The usual spring changes of real estate have begun. Several pieces of valuable property have changed hands and generally at good prices. Two houses and lots in particular are for sale, which sadly point to the inroads made by death in our little community --I mean the houses of old Mrs. Holland, widow of Jonas, and of Nicholas Vanvranken. Both these houses are to be sold within a week. 
Wednesday March 2, 1864. This great and dreadful war brings out in many ways the opinions, feelings, and resources of our people. The fall and winter admits a new call for soldiers, for the army has inaugurated a new measure to provide for the comfort and health of the soldier under the direction of the "Sanitary Commission." It means huge fairs in the various cities to raise money for this benevolent charity. Hundreds of thousands of dollars have been raised and much more will be collected in those fairs which are now in process of preparation. Little things show how the hearts of a community beat. After a desolating war of three years, the people seem just as firmly bent upon conquering this rebellion as in the first year of the war. I could never have believed that such firm determination existed in our people. 
Thursday March 3, 1864; The Bazaar or Fair held in Albany for the benefit of the Sanitary Com'n. creates a great interest in all the surrounding towns. I am told it will be very successful in the supply of money to the soldiers wants and comfort. Un. Coll. has contributed to the Curiosity Dept. a handsome suite of minerals said to be the gem of the collection. 
Friday March 4, 1864. Afflicted with a slight attack of erisipelas in face and hands. 
Spring seems really to be present; all our snow is gone and the air is mild and balmy. Soon our rivers will be unlocked and nature will put on her beautiful summer dress. Thank God for the changes of the year ! 
Alb. and Un. C. Saturday March 5, 1864. At 8 o'clock to Alb: 
1st. Called on Geo. Brandreth, Mem[ber] of Assem[b;by] from Sing Sing to talk over our Hunter Pt. Water Co. bill, and the Land Grant bill which was so shamefully passed last year. An attempt is made this year to repeal it, and to distribute the income of the Grant more righteously. 
2. 
Called on Dr. Woolworth, Sec. of Regents, to talk about altering our Charter so as to make 7 Trustees a quorum. 

3. 
Upon Mr. Munsell, printer, about getting access to the 1st Dutch Ch. records. 

4. 
To Dr. O Callaghan's room in the Secretary of States office and spent some hours in examining old doc[uments] for facts relating to Schen. Home at 5. 


Sunday March 6, 1864. At Bapt. Ch., crowded to excess, to listen to our "Evangelist" named Burnham who has been preaching here for 2 weeks. A rough-hewer but still a good and effective preacher. It is quite plain that an earnest, plain preacher, tho' e[c]centric and rude, sometimes will interest the mass of the people while others will not. 
Many conversions have been pronounced, more are seeking. May God prosper his work. 
Monday March 7, 1864. The subject of increase of salaries interests some of our Professors more fully than any other subject because it comes home to them more nearly. Prof. J[ackson], senior Prof., has addressed letters to several of the Trustees and urged this necessary measure feelingly. 
Tuesday March 8, 11864. The rumor that Prof. W. M. G[illespie] is to married this Spring is quite current and generally believed. Having lived a bachelor SO yrs., it is quite a wonder that at this late day he should change his state. His intended wife is said to be a young lady of N. Y. G[illespie] can well afford to marry, being an only son and child of a wealthy father. 
Wednesday March 9, 1864. H. S. Anable called. He comes up from Hunter's Point to look after a Water Co. Bill in Legislature intended to benefit the property at the Point. He i.s the College Agt. for sale of property at Hunter and Green Points and is a valuable man in his place. He is nephew of Mrs. Nott. 
Thursday march 10, 1864. I am still as an amusement collecting whatever facts will go to form a history of Schenectady, tho' few documents remain for this purpose. Never was there a town of its age and size more destitute of records dating back of 1798, the date of its incorporation. Pity 'tis so! Albany is quite otherwise situated; she has her city records from 1684 entire. 
Friday March 11, 1864. Calling at the tin shop of Vrooman today I was shown a wheelbarrow load of old papers from Bartha. Schermerhorns, among which I found many old papers and an acct. book, once Reyer S's of last century. I bought 9 lbs. of these at 5 cts lb. and brought them home for examination. 
Saturday March 12, 1864. The snow is gone, the ice also from the 
Mohawk and boats are running upon the Hudson. An early spring: á thus far much fewer high and chilling winds than usual. 
Sunday  March 13, 1864.  Snow all day, wet and melting. At home  
with wife.  
Monday March 14, 1864.  The matter  of increase  of salaries is still agitated by the Faculty, especially by Prof. J[ackson], who takes the lead in this business. He's written to Trustees --as Brown, Harris, Blatchford, Potter, &c. --and received letters in return favorable to the project. And now it only remains to find the means. 
Tuesday March 15, 1864. For examiners of our classes at the close of this session we have the following persons: Peter Smeallie, Prin[ci[al]. Johnstown Acad.; Rev. Alonzo Flack, Claverac; Rev. Levi Sternberg, Hartwick; Rev. Edw. D. Allen, Ballston; Rev. N. G. Spaulding, Saratoga Spgs. and Rev. Dr. Van Vechteri of Albany, if he is able to attend. 
Wednesday March 16, 1864. This evening from 8 to 10 Judge Paige, Dr. Backus and Dr. Hickok discussed the matter of increase of salaries. There seemed to be but one opinion about the necessity of the movement, but it does not appear as yet how it is to be brought about. It has been proposed to raise our term bills 15 Ds. a yr., but this by some is thought to be inexpedient. Finally it was proposed that I should write to other Colleges and get their views on the matter and then call a full meeting of the Finance Comm. at Albany. 
Thursday March 17, 1864. The month of Mar., hitherto mild, is now showing its usual character by high raw winds and occasional rains and snow. The war still calls for victims and wealth to maintain it. We have another call for 200,000 men and so accustomed are we to such tremendous drafts that it excites no surprise, and the people at once go about the filling of it. Our finances are the weakest part of the machinery of this war; here is where we shall first fail; our expenses are so enormous that we cannot much longer maintain the war. If we do not close it this year, I fear our finances will be in a hopeless condition, as theárebels find theirs. 
Friday March 18, 1864. There is considerable religious interest in some of the Chh. in town --especially in the Bapt. Ch. The 2nd Dutch Ch. is also holding extraordinary meetings and having preaching every evening in their house of worship. 
Saturday March 19, 1864. To Albany at 8 o'clock. Saw Mr. Munsell about printing our statement for the Legislature in reference to the Land Grant for Colleges. Saw also the Comptroller upon the same matter; he says the land scrip sells slowly and the income cannot be had under two or three years. Saw also Senator White on same subject; he is in favor of keeping the whole sum together for one institution and says he does not care if Un. has it all. Saw also Mr. Brandreth on same subject. Called upon Dr. Van Vechten. Also to the 1st Dutch Ch. and saw their old records in the charge of Mr Wolff, a very obliging man. In Co. Clerks Office an hour or two and home at 5 o'clock. 
Sunday March 20, 1864. At home with wife. 
Monday March 21, 1864. Young Woodson of the Senior Class is reported ill of inflammation or congestion of the brain. So dangerous a disease causes one to fear for the result. To be sick at home and among relatives is painful but doubly so when one is far away from them as this young man is. His friends live in Carrollton, Ill. Last night they were telegraphed. 
Tuesday March 22, 1864. This afternoon I went to Albany with Prof. Chandler to see about the Land Grant bill in the Legislature. We saw Lieut. Gov. Jones and, after talking of the College, he remarked that he had heard it objected to our College that we meddled with politics and particularly Dr. Lewis whom he thought unwise in his public remarks and discussions. Not a very encouraging answer to our asking for aid. I then called upon Mr. Geo. A. Brandreth of the Assembly, who is fully in the interest of Alma Mater. Here I met Mr. DePew, Sec't. of State and others; he says we cannot overcome the opposition of the West to having this fund divided. I then asked him why his end of the State did not favor a division. Merely because they care nothing about it, says he, but if you would offer a portion to St. John's Coll. (Catholic), you would get all the New York members. &c&c. --not much comfort here! We then met Senator White of Syracuse, formerly Prof. of Michigan University. He expressed himself in a friendly manner, was of opinion that the fund should be kept together and was quite willing that U. C. should have the whole of it. He thinks, however, that nothing will be done this session to alter the law. So we came home. 
Wednesday March 23, 1864. The more I become acquainted with the feelings and opinions of others about U. C. I see that Dr Nott has bequeathed us among other good things a mountain of prejudices and evil reports. _We are accused of being unsound financiers. Does not our history warrant the assertion? We are said to be immoral and irreligious. We are accused of being sectarian and lastly we meddle with politics. Having never cultivated the friendly spirit of our graduates, they feel little or no affection for us. Graduates will live within 25 miles of Schen. and not once visit the Coll. in 20 yrs. They send their sons elsewhere. The neglect of cultivating a friendly spirit towards Alma Mater is one of the most fatal defects of Dr. Nott's management. Fifty yrs. hence the Coll. will feel the effects of it. 
Thursday March 24, 1864. Tonight the Fae. meeting to prepare an order of studies. Nothing more. 
Friday March 25, 1864. H. S. Anable was here last evening --came up to look after the Water Co. bill for Hunter Point. 
Saturday March 26, 1864. To Albany to look after the water bill for 
H. Point, found it had not got thro' the Assembly~ Home at 2 o'clock. 
Sunday March 27, 1864. At 11 o'clock young Woodson died today. Yesterday he was thought much better, but congestion of lungs set in and carried him off. 
Monday March 28, 1864. We commence our Examinations today with the Freshman Class and Sophomores. The Examiners present are Rev. Mr Flack of Claverac Acad., Rev. Mr. Edw. D. Allen of Ballston, Mr. Peter Smeallie of Johnstown, Rev. Mr. Levi Sternberg of Hartwick Seminary. 
Tuesday March 29, 1864. The Finance Comm. have appointed Thursday morning for their meeting (in Alb.) to consider the matter of raising salaries. 
Wednesday March 30, 1864. This collegiate session has been one of the most quiet and orderly I have ever known. 
Thursday March 31, 18164. In Albany. Went down at 9.40 a.m. and after much running got the Comm. together at Comptroller's office but, as Judge Paige was engaged in Court of Appeals, the business of the meeting (raising of salaries) was postponed until Mond. morning at 11, when a full meeting is promised. 
Saw Anable in Alb. where he is engaged upon his Water Company Bill now before the Legislature. Home at 5.15, much rain and snow or sleet. 
Friday April 1, 1864. Dr. H[ickok] talked two hours this P. M. about College matters, a dreadful talker! Words! Words! Words! A good honest man with many qualifications for his office, but wanting in others and these of great value. He has a strange want of tact, no power to conciliate and make friends but, without thought or knowing it, steps on peoples toes and then wonders why they cry out. He has not the confidence of many of the .Trust. and Fae. 
Saturday April 2, 1864. Prof. Gillespie has left and is soon to be married (so he says) to a Miss Bates of Westchester Co. 
Sunday April 3, 1864. To Bapt. Ch., heard Rev. Mr. Day who after sermon baptised about 10 persons. Nearly 40 persons have been baptised during the revival now in progress. 
Albany and N. Y. Monday April 4, 1864. Started this morning at 9.40 for Alb. where the Fin. Comm. held a meeting in Mr. C. B. Cochrane's office to consider the matter of increase of salaries of Professors. The meeting began at 11 o'clock and continued until 12.30, but adjourned without coming to any conclusion, except that of appointing a sub-comm. to prepare the business for a future meeting. 
At 4.1 0 I started for N. Y. on the Haarlem R. R. and arrived at Gramercy Park House at 10 o'clock. 
N. York Tuesday April 5, 11864. All day downtown. Cold and misty with some rain and an E. wind. Called upon Mr. James Brown, the banker, 
C. N. Potter, Howard Potter, Fred. J. Hosford, Aug. W. Sexton, Geo Glaubrecht &c&c. Also passed over to Brooklyn and called upon Fa[ther] and Mo[ther] Harvey at 124 Fillan St. and upon Spencer J. Hosford, who is sick --I fear with consumption. Back to Gramercy Park Hotel at six, tired. 
Hunters Pbin t Wednesday April 6, 1864. Spent the whole day at Hunters Pt. with Messrs. Ely and Anable, looking over the grounds etc. In afternoon went down with him (Anable) to Brooklyn and across to N. Y. and so back to boarding house. 
N. Y. is a weary place for me from the country who visits it on business. 
N. Y. and Home Thurday April 7, 1864. The event of the day was the wedding of Prof. Gillespie. At 12.30 Prof. Clark, Tutors Macy, Deremer and myself repaired to the Church of the Incarnation in Madison Avenue to witness the ceremony Several Schen. people were present, and the little church was pretty well filled. At 5 o'clock I started for home by the Hudson Riv. R. R. and reached there at 12 o'clock. 
Albany 
Friday April 8, 1864. Went to Albany this morn'g at 8 o'clock to 
look after the Hunters Pt. Water Co. bill which, in the multitude of 
other bills pressing forward at the close of the session, needs urging 
on. 
Saturday April 9, 1864. Dr. Nott the past week has had two attacks 
of the paralysis and has given his friends much anxiety for his 
safety. 
Sunday April 10, 1864. Snow, sleet, and rain. Home all day. 
Monday April 11, 1864. According to appointment with Judge Paige we started for Albany in the 3.05 P. M. train but at top of the ascent 
3 m. from town our engin e broke down and was so long delayed that we turned back. 
Tuesday April 12, 1864. Started again for Albany at 9.45 a. m. with Judge P. Our object was to see our Senator, Doctor Allaben, and get his cooperation in forwarding the Long Island Co. Water Bill thro the Senate. This he promised to do. 
Wednesday Aptril 13, 1864. Saw Dr. nott --poor feeble old man now near 91! :Life is a burden and he is reduced toa mere child again. Still, so strong is his constitution, he has great tenacity of life and resists disease wonderfully. Instead of the old placidity of countenance and smile of recognition, there is anxiety and pain depicted on his face. 
Thursday April 14, 1864. Thro' Mr. Doty, the new treasurer of the Dutch Church, I have had access today to the Old Chest containing papers belonging to the Church. I [do not?] find much of account, but some of real merit and worth in a historical view. 
Friday April 15, 1864. April has had scarcely one warm day, scarcely one very cold day but pretty uniformly cool with more snow and sleet than rain. There are as yet few signs of the approaching . verdure. Perhaps on the whole a backward April is a surer presage of a good crop. 
Saturday April 16, 1864. Went to Alb. at 1.40 P. M. to look after our Water Co. bill in the Senate. Nothing done, a grievous disappointment as now less than one week remains of the session. Still Dr. Allaber promises well and I hope will perform his promises. 
Chester Averill, son of our former Prof. of same name, has just returned from California and is stopping with his mo[ther] at Mrs Fisks, my next neighbor. 
Sunday April 1 7, 1864. Cold and windy --signs of rain or snow. At home. 
Monday April 18, 1864. orá. H[ickok] talked a long time about College affairs and his relation to it. His situation is an unpleasant one. Several of the Trustees and faculty cannot forget the contest had a few years ago in regard to him and will never cease to talk against him altho' it should not reach so far as to remove him. Feeling his unpleasant situation, he is shorn of half of his power to do good. There are those who rejoice in his mistakes and will do nothing to encourage and sustain his authority. 
Tuesday April 1 9, 1864. Perhaps the best index to the feeling towards him by Dr. N's particular friends is the fact that there is perfect lukewarmness in regard to the proposed subscription for the Coll. It is pretty sure that they will give nothing so long as he remains at the head of the College. Of this he is aware to some extent, and feels hampered and troubled by it. His usefulness is much lessened and his courage to go forward dampened. 
Wednesday April 20, 1 S-64. The Legislature is now nearly at its close. This week will perhaps see the end of their labors. The Water Company bill for Hunters Point still lingers in the Senate and I have fears that it will die there. Almost every day I have been to Albany to look after it. 
Thursday April 21, 1864. To Albany again this afternoon to look after our bill. The hurry of the close of the session does not give much confidence in the wisdom or propriety of many of the laws which are made. 
Albany Friday April 22, 1864. To Albany this morning. Our bill is through and I am relieved of a great anxiety. 
á Met Mr. Delavan and in confidence he told me that during his last visit to New York he called upon Mr. James Brown to see if he would not give something to Coll. "Not one cent," says he, "while that man is at the head of it.11 Mr. D[elavan] is as much opposed to Dr. H[ickok] as is Mr. Brown, and says confidently that no important contributions can be obtained for Coll. from Dr. N's friends whilst we have our present head. 
Saturday April 23, 1864. Our term has opened with about our usual number of students. Studies are arranged and the wheels begin slowly to move. 
Sunday April 24, 1864. At home with wife. 
Monday April 25, 1864. Began my class in Botany at 5 o'clock this evening with about 15. 
Tuesday April 26, 1864. I spend some leisure hours still upon the old papers in the Dutch Ch. chest. Altha' the great mass of papers are of little account, a few are interesting in a historical point and contain important facts nowhere else obtainable. One paper in ancient Dutch of 1684, shows that the "Poor pastur" of the Church, lately sold, was given to the poor of the city by Hans Janssen in 1674/5. This point has never before been certainly proved by any better evidence than tradition. 
Wednesday April 27, 1864. Among the Dutch papers I find also subscription papers both for building the Church of 1734, and for a "Klock" bell or clock, probably the former. I find too a plat of the pews nearly as the house was seated in 1734, together with a list of the occupants of each seat. 
Thursday April 28, 1864. It seems passing strange that no one has ever undertaken to collect the scattered facts lying in old papers belonging to the Church and families of Schen, Such evidence of irreverence for everything but the present gains and pleasures argues badly for the intellectual progress and refinement of our town. Had this been a N. E. town, its annals would long since have been written and printed. 
Friday April 29, 1864. Our session has opened prosperously, our numbers are gaining, and altogether the future looks more hopeful for our prosperity. As for raising more money for U. Coll., at present 
I look upon it as hopeless. 
Saturday April 30, 1864. Called upon Mr. Gillespie's bride --a pleasing little áwoman, thin and delicate apparently. With wife walked over to the cemetery, our city of the dead, sad but beautiful spot. 
Sunday May 1. 1864. To Bapt. Ch. Mr. Day again baptised 6 young 
women, the fruits of this winters revival of religion in this church. 
Monday May 2, 1864. We have a new institution in College this session, a gymnastic exercise according to the plan of Dr. Dia Lewis of Boston. One of his pupils, a Mr. White, is the director and teacher, and he has already a class of more than SO pupils. This method of exercise is mild, in distinction from the violent [exercise] as hitherto taught, and meets with much favor in schools and Colleges. 
Tuesday May 3, 1864. We have constant rumors of a great battle soon to be fought in Virginia between the Union forces and the rebels. Well may all men tremble in view of the terrible slaughter and the momentous interests at stake. May God favor the right in his own good time. When we are thoro'ly scourged with this dreadful war and sufficiently punished for our national sins, He will stay the plague. 
Wednesday May 4, 1864. The opening spring is just now come in earnest. Hitherto the weather has not been warm, indeed it is pronounced a backward spring. Today we have a warm sun. 
Thursday May 5, 1864. During my stay in Union College I have seen almost an entire change of officers and servants. Death and removal have been at work and but few who were here 3 2 yrs. ago now move on College Hill. To-day our old teamster's wife died --Cromwell Antis --in a humble station but ful[fil]ling well her task of keeping together and supporting the family of a poor man. 
Friday May 6, 1864. Today in the afternoon we buried the wife of Crom. Antis. She leaves 3 small children, poor things too soon thrown upon a cold world for support! 
Saturday May 7, 1864. Cloudy but no rain. All the [time?] we hear rumors of an impending contest south of the Potomac and today it 
Pearsoh Diary March 15, 1863 -June 5 1875 }O){_p-:n-'I' 
seems certain that our Grand Army is in motion and marching against the enemy; indeed it is said tonight that there has been a three-day fight, whether true or false or what has been the result, none can know. Oh, that this sad strife were over and we had peace again! My soul is constantly heavy and oppressed with the thoughts ofit. 
Sunday May 8, 1864. At home with wife. Warm day. 
Monday May 9, 1864. The news this morning tell us of two days severe fighting in the "Wilderness" of Virginia, in which our army was attacked by the rebels with great impetuosity but held their ground with great firmness. It would seem that these battles were indecisive, tho' showing that the tactics are no longer [as] successful as they were in former battles. 
Tuesday May 10, 1864. Great loss of life has been the result of last weeks battles, tho' probably not so great as might have been expected inasmuch as no artillery was used on either side, owing to the nature of the ground. It is now told that the enemy has fallen back and that our army are following hard up. Other and blo[o]dier battles must follow. So fight the armies of Freedom and Slavery. 
Wednesday May 11, 1864. It would seem as if there never was more obstinate and persevering fighting than the armies have shown in Virginia the past week. All that human valor and skill could do have been attempted in these fights. The Rebels determined to win, our army stood firm and fought like lions. The two commanders have the full confidence of their men and show great knowledge of the art of War, but after all we can only say that the result cannot always be as we judge or expect. The Divine Hand turns man and his best plans to nought, and all our best hopes perish. 
Thursday May 12, 1864. The wildest rumors constantly fly about, the air is filled with whisperings of disaster and success. Great expectations were placed in our army and its commander and, if disappointed, the War must linger another year. It seems pretty sure from all we learn that the rebel army has been sore pressed by ours, and been obliged almost constantly to fall back, fighting obstinately, however, but without in the least wearying the bull-dog obstinacy and perseveran~e of our army. It really seems to be quite sure that both armies are to fight as long as they can be led and stand up to each other. It really becomes reduced to the bully's prize fight. May God prosper the right and in his own good time bring us peace. 
Friday May 13, 1864. Last night Mrs. Washington held a reception or party in honor of Mrs. and Prof Gillespie, of whom she is an especial friend. 
On the whole the result of one weeks' almost constant fighting in Va. seems to be decidedly in our favor. We have taken many prisoners and cannons and have lost but few. We have constantly pressed upon the rear of the retreating enemy and have pressed him back beyond his chosen positions. The enemy seems weary and distressed, like a wearied bully, still shows pluck and endurance. It really seems as if we should accomplish a complete victory and destroy the head of the Rebellion if only our brave men can hold out a little longer 
Saturday May 14, 1864. Rode into the country with wife. Spring is putting on her new dress and everything looks fresh and lovely. The show of flowers upon the fruit trees was never more beautiful. Everything is covered with blossoms ~nd, if but a quarter of them bear fruit, our cellars will be filled. 
Sunday May 15, 1864. At home with wife. 
Monday May 16, 1864. Last week I had an offer from Mr. Wm. Judson of 12% int.from a loan of $25,000 on a pledge of 75 Certif. on Hunter Point. As College has no money to loan, I am now negociating with Schen. Sav. Bk. a seven pr. ct. loan reserving the 5% as remuneration to Coll. for a guarantee of Judson's note. 
Tuesday May 1 7, 1864. Among the strange things that are done for a little pelf, the strangest to me is a fact just told me for truth, viz. that the Consistory of the Dutch Ch. here have sold a set of chand[e]liers given by Nicholas Van der Volger, for old brass. They cost $67 Ds./10 s. and were engraved with the owners name. Such vandalism ought to be severely rebuked. 
Wednesday May 18, 1864. It is a wonder in view of the indifference to all that is past that any records of the past are left in existence. Everything made of paper goes to the rag-picker and is sold to the paper-maker; nothing seems too precious to bring 7 cts. the lb. It is sad to hear so often of loss of precious and valuable papers in this way. 
Thursday May 19, 1864. There seems to be a lull in the strife now raging in the contending armies; but it will only be momentary. The late rains have made field opperations impossible, else we should before this [have] had a renewal of the strife. Heaven only can know the end of this dreadful war. I must confess I cannot see my way thro' it; all speak hopefully of the present campaign and profess to see the end of rebellion, but I do not. The task is gigantic and well nigh impossible. Unless Divine Providence interpose to turn the hearts of men and decide the result, I know not what man can do. 
Friday May 20, 1864. Mr. Judson's agent, Cromwell, today closed the business of the loan, and paid me $1250 for the College Guaranty of his note; by this operation [the College] gets so much without really running any risk. Just now this money is a real Godsend to th~ 
coa . 
Rode in P. M. to P. R. Tolls in Glenville with wife. The country never looked fresher. All fruit trees are loaded with blossoms. 
Saturday May 21, 1864. Went to the cemetery to select a lot for the 
burial of our dead upon the College Lot, and on Monday I am to have 
removed to it the remains of my sister and son. 
Sunday May 22, 1864. At home with wife. 
[Gap of two weeks] 
Monday June 6, 1864. Thus far the season has been cool and moist --favorable for grass and grains. We have hardly had one hot day. Of the state of the country no change for the better yet appears. It is all war and blood-shed --brother against brother: only Gods good Providence can stay the carnage and bring peace out of this dreadful confusion. I look upon our condition as one just awoke out of a frightful dream. The dreadful reality seems an impossibility, a frightful dream which must soon pass away and leave nothing but our former happy condition. Alas! that it might be so! 
Tuesday June 7, 1864. Last Wednesday commenced the session of the Synod of the Dutch Church. OnThurs. came young Fred Hosford of 
N.Y. to attend it and last night his brother Spencer. The town is full of notables. 
Wednesday June 8, 1864. The Synod adjourned tonight, after a weeks session --harmonious and pleasant. 
Thursday June 9, 1864. Spencer and Frederick Hosford left this morning to visit their friends at Keesville. The latter is a theological student at Princeton, now commencing his third and last year. 
Friday June 10, 1864. We learn today of a sad accident upon the North River --the burning of a new steamboat, the Berkshire, sailing between Hudson and N. Y. Many lives are said to be lost. In this line my bro.-in-law Magoun is largely interested. 
Saturday June 11, 1864. Cool nights --almost a frost. 
Sunday June 12, 1864. At home with wife. 
Monday June 13, 1864. Saw at Dr. Hickok's a precocious child of 8 yrs. named Dudley Waller. He is said to be an orphan, his father a German, mother Irish. When 2 yrs. old, his mo[ther] died after giving him away to a woman who now cares for him. He has a wonderful memory and talent for speaking pieces, entering into the spirit of the composition with great spirit. He will exhibit publickly to the inhabitants of Schen. next week at Anthony Hall. It is quite doubtful if such a putting forward of the child will be for his future good. 
Tuesday June 14, 1864. The condition of U. Coll. in some respects is prosperous. We have a fair number of students, say 225, and our finances are easy. Still much is needed to give proper efficiency to our efforts. We want more books, a renovation of our dormitories, a Chapel building &c. --all of which can only be had by more funds. It seems doubtful, however, if they will be raised at the present. 
The case is this. The friends of Dr. Nott seem lukewarm and will probably do nothing so long as Dr. Hickok is head of the College. The truth is that Dr. Nott labored three yrs. to [bring?] Dr. H. here and when he came promised him in the name of the Trustees and without their knowledge that he should be his successor, but Dr. H. had not been here a year before he was anxious to be rid of him, and to this purpose turned all his friends against him. From that time to this, they have had no cordial feeling in favor of the College. 
Wednesday June 15, 1864. It is simply a question of justice and right --whether having got Dr. H. here, he is to be shifted like an bad-fitting garment merely because Dr. N. did not like him. Whether Dr. H's feelings, character and interests are all to be sacrificed because Dr. N. and his friends find now, when too late to repent, that they made a mistake. The whole business of calling Dr. H. was conducted by Dr. N. in his usual secret and sly way. The correspondence shows his endeavor to remain noncommittal. He wished Dr. H. to come without conditions and trust to time for his future standing. Dr. H. refused absolutely to come unless he was assured the Presidency on the death or resignation of Dr. N. and he so wrote to the Trustees. Dr. N. received this letter but never read it to the Board, merely saying that Dr. H. had accepted the call, when the business was ratified by the Board. When, however, Dr. N. began to desire Dr. H's withdrawal from his position and made efforts to injure him in the minds of the Trustees, the whole secret came out that Dr. 
N. had made Dr. H. his successor without their knowledge. 
Thursday June 16, 1864. Then, instead of censuring Dr. N. for the act, and repudiating the. bargain, they visited their wrath upon the innocent victim. That Dr. N. was worthy of severe censure for his chicanery in this whole matter, there is no doubt; that those trustees who disliked Dr. H. could then have entered their protest against the whole proceeding with evident propriety, there is also no doubt; but instead of doing so, they acquiesced in what was done merely to save Dr. N. but never ceased to talk and act against Dr. H., who was entirely innocent in the matter. 
Friday June 17, 1864. As it regards myself, I will take no part for or against Dr. H. any farther than to discountenance all injustice and double-dealing in the matter. He was no choice of mine, I have nothing against him, no especial predjudice in his favor. Dr. N.'s friends have for some time by constant gossip endeavored to injure him by all possible means: they have reported that an the faculty are opposed to him &c&c. Such means are unworthy and mean. Whatever his faults, and he has them, so long as he is our President he is worthy of support and fair dealing. To injure him is to injure the College measurably. 
Saturday June 18, 1864. If the Trustees or any of the Fae. do not like him as Pres., there is but one honorable way of getting rid him --to request him frankly to resign that a better man may be appointed. 
Sunday June 19, 1864. To Bapt. Ch. in forenoon with Miss Cynthia Sheldon. Mr. Day preached. 

[This is the end of text in volume 8.] {verso of previous leaf} --BLANK PAGE-.

[From June 19, 1864 to this entry there is no text. The summaries of events which follow are numbered 1 through 10, indicating separate composition; and the numbering continues, when dated entries recur, from March 22 through the concluding dated entry on Saturday, June 5, 1875. Two historical notes from 1690 complete the text.]
