
1866 Dr. Nott died 29 Jan. this year after some 6 years of feebleness and imbecility. Divers attacks of paralysis gradually impaired and finally destroyed his mental powers. The party opposed to Dr. Hickok would, if they had dared, have prevented his election to the Presidency but the agreement with him was of the nature of a contract that he should succeed Dr. Nott and he was finally elected at the following meeting of the Board in July. The opposing elements, however, in the Faculty and Board were so strong that it was evident he could accomplish no great success. He was endured for a time because he could not be got rid of. Dr H., tho' not of great executive abilities, tho' somewhat rough in his intercourse with men, was nevertheless a highly intellectual man, holding a high standing in his line of study and popular with the young men on account of his blunt good nature and honesty. 
2. 1868 No man ever left U. C. his enemy. He never dissembled, nor used finesse, but spoke honestly what he thought and used no double-dealing. In this respect, he was in marked contrast with---."----. He held the office two years and in 1868, in accordance with a conclusion long before come to, to retire from public life when he reached 70 yrs. of age, resigned and retired to Amherst. Mass. where he had two nephews, the Seelyes. 
College these two years was like a house divided against itself. The oldest Professor[, with some others, did what he could to destroy his influence by depreciation and tattling, even to and before the students. The consequence was that the number of students gradually diminished and the interest of the public in us flagged. After Dr. H. left, many persons were tried or spoken of as his successor and for a whole year we were without a head. For, altho' our senior Professor was nominally the acting Pres., he was no better than a wooden man so far as any efficiency was concerned. He had no tact for discipline, no pluck, no decision. 
3. 1869. The man pitched upon for President by Prof. J[ackson] was Professor Murray of Rutger's College. The Trustees however did [not] approve of this candidate, but called Prof. Charles A. Aiken of Princeton College, -a grad. of Dartmouth Coll. In this choice Prof. J. never acquiesced, and never cordially supported the new President. Dr. Aiken was a scholarly man, thoroughly acquainted with the discipline and workings of a College in which he had passed his life. The discipline and scholarship of the College never was so good as when he left, after a two years service. The conduct and scholarship of the young men constantly improved under his management. There was however a chill in our College atmosphere which seemed to hinder his progress. Everything appeared well on the surface, but he evidently did not feel at home here, and his efforts did not seem to be seconded by those who were in power. There was too much turning back to the time of Dr. Nott and comparing our present condition with the past. 

4. 1871 Dr. A's ostensible reason for leaving was the health of his wife, who had been an invalid for years and had been obliged on that account to leave Dartmouth. An offer was made to him of a Professorship in the Theolog. Seminary at Princeton and in 18 71 he resigned. Dr A's loss was a real misfortune in many respects to the College. He was a thorough scholar and disciplinarian, both of which qualifications the College needed in a President; and leaving as he did after so long a search for President, there was danger that the Board would take the first man presented to them in dispair of getting another. 
The Board of Trustees met in June, 1871; there was no strong candidate presented; and, to avoid further delay and the annoyance and vexation of the year 1868-9 , the multiplying of candidates and conflict of opinions, the man who was suggested was elected. Mr. Blatchford had always held that the College needed one of the Potter family and had some years [before?] suggested either Henry C. or Eliphalet] N[ott] {Potter] as President. When, therefore. the name of the latter was presented, he was elected with but few dissenting votes. His fitness for the office was doubted even by his own family to my certain knowledge. 

5. 
He had been out of College barely 10 yrs. and while in College his 
scholarship for various reasons had never been such as would 
recommend him for so important an office. Still he was supposed to 
have some excellent traits of character for the place, among which 
were activity and tact for begging money. 
He came in the fall of 1871. At once he began to plan for divers 
changes, always in the material interests --the buildings and 
grounds of the College. First he planned a skew street called Union 
Avenue thro' the College grounds in the rear, to run thro' the whole 
grounds, with the intention of selling off about 100 acres for building 
lots. This project was assented to by the Trustees tho' it made a most 
awkward arrangement of streets and necessitated a great loss of 
valuable ground in cutting up the same into rectangular lots. When 
3000 or 4000 Ds. had been expended for grading, fencing, &c., th~ 
great panic of 18 7 3 came on and no lots could be sold. In carrying 
out his plans, much valuable wood and timber was cut off and the 
ground left bare and unsightly. This plan was wrong in all respects 
and produced great loss to the College. 


6. His father-in-law, Mr. Jos. W. Fuller of Troy, gave the College 10,000 Ds. to build a house for him on College ground. This sum was ample in the hands of man of ordinary prudence and economy, but so many alterations in the plans were made during the progress of the work that the house in the end has cost about 18,000 Ds. --so much, indeed, that he says he is ashamed to tell how much it has cost. Then several thousand Dolls. were spent in moving janitors houses and barn, all of which was uncalled[-for] in view of the crippled condition of the College finances. 
Next the Colleges were all newly grouted and painted outside; Mrs Nott's house newly grouted and painted also. 
A Gymnasium was thought to be necessary, which he planned himself. By successive alterations after the contract was made, this cost some 2000' Ds. more than it ought to and is a botch[ed] piece of architecture. 

7. A portion --the larger portion --of the money for this building was contributed by friends but more than 1500 Ds. came out of the meagre College income. In 1874, he thought to make a new Library room and so altered and fitted up our little Chapel room with shelves etc. at a cost of over 2000 Ds. When done. [he] concluded not to remove the books to it. But after a year had passed ordered the books in part to be removed to it, where they are constantly exposed to pilferring and deterioration. All this when he has come to the determination to remove the books again into the great Rotunda in the.middle of the campus within the year 1875 or 1876. Finally, the crowning folly is the Memorial Hall so-called, the foundation of which was laid in 1858 as an Alumni Hall. Soon after he came here, it was given out that his two bros., Clarkson and Howard, were going to build this hall and the Pres. made a contract with a builder of N .Y. by the name of Rollins to put up the walls and roof for about 40,000 
Ds. 
8. Mr. E. T. Potter, the Pres. brother, was the architect. The work was commenced in 1872 and slowly moved on until 1874 when the top stone was laid. From the slipshod way in which the contract was made, the specifications drawn, if any, and almost total want of any drawings beforehand made, there arose a dispute about the value of the work done which promised at one time a lawsuit. But after much sharp talk and angry words a compromise was made on 35,000 Ds., the roof being left out to be afterwards made of iron in the form of a dome. This 35,000 Ds. was paid by the Pres. 2 bros., as before mentioned. There their contributions stopped. The walls were up -.nothing more; the wooden beams and floor timbers were all thrown out; 17 iron columns 40 feet high were discarded and condemned as being too weak --all a loss to the College; and the whole interior plan and roof were changed entirely and new ones substituted. This changing of plans in process of building is so characteristic that it has 
9. now hardly awakened an enquiry as to why or wherefore. The building having progressed thus far on the supposition that friends of the College or President were to pay the costs, all at once it was thrown upon the College to finish and --what is most astonishing -.the Board in 1874 voted ,to expend 50,000 Ds. (only a beginning) on this huge piece of folly and extravagance, without one enquiry how or where the money was to be raised. And what is more, in Jan. 1875 they voted to increase this amount to 60,000 Ds. cash, with an indefinite amount of land which it is supposed the contractors will take in part payment. The Messrs. Cornell of New York have made 2 contracts of about 50,000 Ds. for iron work. The framework for dome and roof are up and soon (1875) they are to go on with their work with slating, galleries, and stairs. Now what is all this great building for? In fact it is a mere show building, ostensibly for books, for which it is entirely unfitted, but really for pictures &c., a mere Museum. 

And how has the money for all these extraordinary expenditures been raised? by spending the principal of the Trust Fund! Out of the many thousands spent within the past 4 yrs. not 1000 Ds. has been used for purposes of instruction or for apparatus, but everything for show and outside effect. It is all show, all to catch the vulgar eye, to be talked about, published in the papers, gazed at by the passing stranger. Whilst all this has been going on, nothing has been done to give us better recitation rooms. Since 1795 we have never had but three rooms expressly built for that purpose and the miserable make-shifts we have are a disgrace to the Institution. In what way has all this power over expenditures on grounds and buildings been lawfully effected? In this manner: In 1872 the Pres. caused a resolution to be passed by the Board "Committing all repairs and improvements of grounds and buildings" to a committee of which he was made Chairman, and as such he assumes that he can order whatever expenditures he pleases without any consultation with the remainder of this Committee, and so he does. The resident members of [See page 20] 
