
Monday March 22, 1875. Term closes tomorrow. 
Prof. Wells having been employed to solicit donations to the College, last summer had a conference with Dr. John McClellan of New York, a graduate of U. C. in the Class of 1832. He had some encouragement that Alma Mater would be remembered in his will. About 3 w[eeks] ago Dr. Mc C. died, and on Sat. last Prof. W. had a letter from Judge Spier of N. Y, Dr. Mc C's legal adviser as well as classmate, that by the Dr's will U. C. would receive a bequest of betw. 35,000 and 40,000 Ds. A few weeks ago my classmate Johnston Livingston of Tivoli gave the College 1000 Ds. 
Tues. Mar. 23. Term closed at noon and had Fae. meeting at 12 o'clock. 
Wed. Mar. 24. Good hard winter weather, snow today and good sleighing. The "oldest inhabitant" never knew the ground so deeply frozen, in our streets 5 to 5 1/2 feet-.
Thurs. Mar. 25 Pres. Potter left town Tues. P. M. for Troy where his family are staying with his fa[ther]-in-law Mr. Jos. W. Fuller. From 
thence he goes to Elisabeth N.J. to hold service on Sunday for a friend and back on Tuesday next. 
Friday Mar.26. Today had conference with Judge Potter, one of the Fin. Comm. on financial condition of U. C. At his and Dr. Backus' request made some weeks since, I drew up and presented to them a list and amount of the Trust Funds (save Nott Trust). Also the productive investments answerable for the same, by which it appears that we have within four years spent $70,000 of said Trust Funds. I also made an estimate of the deficiency of income betw. now and May 31 to meet expenditures, amounting to some 10 or 12 thousand dollars. In addition to which I asked the Financial Comm. to define the powers and duties of the Treasurer, so that he would have no doubt on that subject and be in no danger of intermeddling with the duties of any other person. And finally I gave Judge P[otter] my ideas upon how College finances should be managed --this for him alone. All the above papers were delivered to him on the 16th March and the last was given back to me today as I had no desire to have it seen by any other person, it being very outspoken on this subject tho' not personal. 
In my conference with Judge P. he told me he had had a talk with Dr. B[ackus] on the subject of our finan[cial] condition and they had come to the conclusion that something must at once be done to reduce our expenditures or to increase our income. He deplores the headlong way of spending money and sees and asserts the imperious necessity of the Finan. Comm. interfering to stop such lavish expenditures of the Trust Funds. Among other things I asked his opinion of the propriety of exchanging 6 or 8 of our small mortgages, amounting to say 9,000, for a large mortgage of that amt. now owned by C. Ely, he paying 1% for the exchange. Approved. Another matter was the payment of 100 Ds. to Prof. Wells, due him thus: The President engaged Prof. W. last summer to solicit funds for Coll., for which he was to be paid 500 Ds. Some friends of Coll. in N. Y. have paid 400 Ds. and Pres. P[otter] orders the remaining 100 Ds. to be paid out of the income of the Blatchford Meml. Fund, which is already largely overdrawn. Judge P. thought [it] had better be charged to the General College account. Prof. Webster went to Florida last Dec. to collect specimens for the Nat. Hist. Dept and [was?] allowed 400 Ds. for his expenses. This having been paid him, an additional bill for 101 Ds. comes in and the question arises: Shall the Treasr. pay it? This was asked the Judge but nothing definite answered. 
Saturday March 27, 1875. Winter relenting and snow and ice slowly disappearing. 
Sunday March 28,1875. To church in sleigh. 
Monday March 29, 1875. Busied with others arranging Course of Studies for the opening session tomorrow. President sends word from N. Y. on Sat. that he would not be here till Tuesday. Thro' my assistant, Mr, Jenkins, obtained the assent of Dr: Backus to the exchange of small bonds and mortgages with Mr. Chas. Ely for a large bond and mortgage of 9000 Ds., he paying 90 Ds. for the privilege. 
The financial management of U. C. gives much anxiety to some of the elder members of Fin. Comm. residing in town, upon whom most of the burthen of business necessarily falls. [Dr. ENP] from the time he came here has been gathering all the power into his own hands, especially in the expenditures of money. The income is too small for his extravagant projects and in consequence the principal of the Trust Funds has been melting away to maintain our expenditures, until now there is a deficiency of good productive investments answerable for these funds of 81,000 Ds. When he came here in 18 71, there was a deficiency of only 9000 Ds. This condition of things alarms our steady-going and conservative resident Trustees and they say with emphasis that there must be a change at once, or we shall run into the same slough as his grandfa[ther] made for us. Whether anything or how much they will do. I do not know, and indeed I am quite incredulous that much will be done at all. It seems now that we may drift along as we did 25 -30 years ago and bring up with another public and legislative investigation. 
Tuesday March 30, 1875. Warm day, snow moving, roads all mud. Received a message from Mr. Anable's son that his father would be in Albany this P. M. at 3 o'clock. At 1 o'clock took R. Road train, arrived in Alb. at 2 o'clock, went to Mr. Munsell's to enquire about the Engineering Cat[alogue] he is printing: will be sent over tomorrow. Met Mr Anable at 3 o'clock at Delavan House and went with him to the Committee room of the Legislature. The occasion was a hearing in regard to the Queens County Courthouse now building at Hunter's Point. The Commissioners have expended 150,000 Ds. and there is needed 125,000 more to finish it. Senator King desires to have the Comm[ission] abolished but does not wish to have any provision made to finish the Court House. Hence the quarrel. Back home at 6 o'clock. á 
Pres. Potter sent word from N. Y. he would be here today but did not arrive. 
Wednesday March 31, 1875. Fine day, snow going. My classmate 
Uriah Marvin of Troy and son called to see me; has retired from the 
ministry. Received a telegram from Pres. Potter directed to Prof. 
Staley or myself from Albany [to] say he was detained and would not 
be over till tomorrow, to ask Prof Wells to officiate for him in Chapel 
tomorrow morning. Canal stable burnt last night --probably the 
work of an incendiary. The plan of the first floor of the Memorial 
Hall, having iron beams, has been sent up by the Messrs. Cornell of N. 
Y., iron contractors, for bids of masons for making the brick arches 
and grouting, to receive the asphalt pavement. Masons estimating: 
Jno. Mc Encroe, Jacob Van Zandt, Michael Nolan, and Gun and Kilian. 
Was told by Prof. Staley that a student told him that students wen; 
carrying off books from the Chapel room where they are in part now 
deposited by order of Dr. Potter. 
In the matter of the Library, this has been the change made. For the purpose of getting full control of the Library, the President had a Resolution prepared and presented to the Board in 1873, giving to him as Chairman and to 6 other gentlemen outside of the College as Curators of the Library who have the powers formerly had by the Library Committee. These Curators perpetuate their own body by electing other members, have power to appoint a Librarian and Asst. Libn., a Treasurer of their own, the College Treasurer ex. off[icio] being now that officer who is temporarily appointed in charge of the books. This resolution the President interprets to give him as Chairman of said Curators full power over the Library and in pursuance of the same he has for the last two yrs. acted as tho' there was no Librarian, as I suppose in fact there is none. He has never consulted me in any one thing but given orders for removal of the books and whatever it has pleased him, as tho' I had nothing to do with them. Some time since he appointed Mr Featherstonhaugh Asst. Librarian. I therefore consider myself no longer responsible for the 
ásafe-keeping of the books and have so notified Judge Potter and Dr. Backus, the resident members of the Fin. Comm. 
Thursday April 1, 1875. All day in office. At 11 o'clock at Judge Potter's office to consult 1. About payment of a plumber's bill for laboratory. He declined to let it pass but referred it to the Finance Comm. for audit. The Judge is not well pleased that so many new bills are made with[out] consultation with the Fin. Comm. 2. Talked about the Queen's Co. Court House bill now before the N. York Senate. He has once already been before the committee on this subject. 
President Potter came home this forenoon, I am told. 
Yesterday I sent by Mr. Jenkins to Judge Potter, as member of Finance Comm., a revised statement brought down to date of all the Trust Funds held by Un. Coll., showing the deficiency of productive investments answerable for said Trust Funds , amounting to about 69,000 Ds. Also a statement of probable receipts of income and expenditures to May 31 next. The latter will probably exceed the former about 14,000 Ds. This statement was made [by] a request of Judge Potter and Dr. Backus, to be laid before the next meeting of Fin. Comm. [See page 22.] 
20 [From p.10] The Finance Comm. have been much tried by his lavish expenditures and in Dec. 1873 prepared a set of rules by which he was to be curtailed in his powers in this respect, and these rules were submitted to a full meeting of the Comm. in Albany in Jan., 1874, President being present. He asked the privilege of examining them, put them in his pocket and they have never since been seen. The question now arises: Why do these old men, cautious and conservative in their own business, allow so young a man totally unfitted for business and for the economical expenditure of money, to have full charge of the finances of Un. College? For this reason. He was elected President because no other candidate was presented, and because it was supposed he could concentrate his family influence upon the College, which to a great degree he has done. In the first place his two bros. have given $35,000 towards the central building, which is understood to be a family memorial; he has obtained from Jas. Brown the promise of $110,000, from Mr. Blatchford $10,000 -.all his family connections Moreover thro' his brother, Henry C., minister of Grace Church he has obtained from Miss Wolfe, one of his congregation, the gift of 55,000 Ds. All these gifts so soon obtained have given him prestige and our Resident Trustees do not wish to throw anything in the way of his success or to dampen his ardor in obtaining more funds if he can. This one thing he is good for and has by his family influence been quite successful in --the begging of money. One thing should however be observed: all these gifts are for specific purposes and do not help the financial condition of College a cent. Indeed the Wolfe fund of $50,000 by its conditions will cost the College about $2000 a year. Few people ever think that most gifts to Colleges are specific and that such donations seldom help, but rather are a load upon, the College finances. 
22 [From page 19] Friday, April 2, 1875. At 1 o'clock I met the 
President in front of his house; he informed me that the Resident Trustees would have a meeting at Dr. Backus' study at 3 o'clock and wished me to be present. At 3 o'clock I met the gentlemen, and by their direction read the statement which I had prepared by direction of Dr. Backus and Judge Potter of the Trust Funds and the Productive Investments answerable for same, and the probable receipts and expenditures up to May 31, 1875. 
It was evident from the first that the President was piqued because I had reported this state of the finances to Dr. B. and Judge 
P. before I did to him; in a word that I did not consider myself amenable to him primarily and to the Fin. Comm. secondarily. He confessed that he was not an economical man, nor a financier, nor an accountant, and on that account it was the more necessary for me to instruct him in the financial condition of the College. I answered that I was willing and ready to do so but, being a somewhat diffident man, did not wish to obtrude my advice or opinions upon any one unasked, and moreover I had repeatedly told him so and invited him to ask me for any information. 
Another point was the confusion which had arisen by reason of several committees: Fin. Comm., Curators of Parks and Buildings, who had oversight over expenditures, and the difficulty the Treasr. had to know his duties and to whom to apply for orders. Here clearly appeared the effect which has lately been produced on his mind by some probable wholesome advice given by Judge P. and Dr. B. this morning: -for, whereas in 1872 he in an angry mood told me he could not run downtown to consult the Finance Comm. for every expenditure he had to make, and later in 1873, after he had procured the passage of the resolution relating to powers of the Curators of Parks and Buildings, I told him distinctly I recognised said Curators as authorised to make expenditures and should pay bills accordingly. Now he says said Curators had no such authority and he did understand the resolution so to mean, but recognised the Finance Comm. as the only source of authority in such matters. This acknowledgement is a great gain and, if lived up to, will help to bring matters into a better trim. We talked 3 hours --much of of the time on minor and unimportant matters --as it seemed to me, purposely, by the President, to stave off the two only weighty points --the deficiency of the Productive Funds and of the income to meet expenses. These points were merely alluded to. 
In the close I appealed to the gentlemen to give me, at the next meeting of the Finance Comm. a clear exposition of the duties and responsibilities of the Treasurer. I said I had been walking in the dark, confused by multiplicity of conflicting rules and resolutions 
without knowing to whom I was responsible. A point he endeavored to make much of against me was that I said certain funds such as Blatchford Mem[oria]l. of 10,000 Ds. had no designated purpose assigned. This he denied, saying that he was authorised to dispense the income of them at his discretion and that in my reports of 18 7 3 and 1874 I had so stated. To this I answered that I had remarked that I was advised so and so by him and had so stated, but that the purpose had not been designated by him or any one else. 
Saturday April 3, 1875. Rain during the night. Received a telegram at 4 1/2 P. M. from Potter at Albany saying there would be a Finance Comm. meeting at Albany on Tuesday at 2 o'clock. I immediately sent the telegram to Dr. Backus to notify him of it, according to agreement. At our Friday meeting in Dr. Backus' study, the disposition of the income of the Indigent Student Fund was spoke of, and it was asked what rules the Board had made in relation thereto. I answered that there were no rules about it, only custom, that the President had dispensed this income, requiring of each applicant a certificate as to character and need signed by two reputable citizens, and then if satisfactory giving him an order for a definite amount on the Treasurer to be applied to his College bill. The president said he had dispensed it, as he thought judiciously, and was rather surprised when he learned that he had exceeded the income of the Indigent Student Fund about 1/3; therefore to relieve this fund he proposed to charge the Wolfe Fund students nothing at all--the first deadheads, in fact, ever admitted to College. If this be allowed, the College income will be reduced by about 1400 Ds. 
Sunday April 4, 1875. Fine day. Communion Sabbath at Baptist Church. 
Monday April 5, 1875. Weather ditto. Downtown at 3 o'clock to see Judge Potter to arrange for business for tomorrow's meeting at Albany of Fin. Comm. Explained more fully some things in my Friday's report. He is to introduce some resolutions for me in explanation of certain matters of business. 
Tuesday April 6, 1875. At one o'clock went to Alb. and met the Fin. Comm. at Mr. Tho. W. Olcott's office in Mechanics and Farmer's Bank. There were present: Judge Platt Potter, in chair. Judge W. F. Allen, Rev. J. T. Backus and President Potter. Mr. Olcott was unwell and absent. Mr. Deremer was absent on acc't of election in Schenectady. 
President Potter occupied nearly all the time in presenting and 
explaining certain papers bearing upon subjects, many of which had been discussed at the meeting on Friday. These papers and the subjects therein treated are on record in the doings of this meeting. The spirit of the President was much softened especially towards me and my financial doings and among other things [he] made the remarkable assertion that he was no financier and, having certains things much at heart to do at his first coming, had gone on regardless of consequences, which course if persevered in he felt conscious now would in a short time have led to consequences as serious to the College as those in the past, meaning the investigation of 1849-53. He also said he was willing to allow that the Treasurer's opposition to such extravagant expenditures had been fortunate for him as well as for the College. He was also willing, at the suggestion of Dr. Backus and Judge Potter, to consent to the making of a set of financial rules for the guidance of Treasurer and Finance Comm. and a special Comm.,consisting of Dr. B., Judge P., and Dr. Potter was appointed to construct these rules and do certain other matters, among which to define the duties and responsibilities of the Treasr. Then came the climax of the Doctor's communications; to wit, a claim of $5,500 for extra services rendered, expenses incurred &c&c. in the past for the College in soliciting donations for the College. 
These services &c. were lumped and it was understood and so stated that no vouchers were forthcoming or procurable for said claims. This demand and the written paper explaining the same were referred to Judges Potter and Allen and Dr. Backus for consideration, and they will allow it. If he had asked for twice that sum, it would have been all the same. After the meeting broke up about 4 o'clock, the President walked up Broadway to Steuben, up Steuben to Pearl, along Pearl to State Street --all the way explaining to me the propriety of his charges, their reasonableness, how much less than a low percentage on what he had raised for College, how he had not keep strict account of his expenses and therefore could not give vouchers for the same and how the sum asked --5,500 Ds -.was much less than he was justly entitled to &c. To all of which I answered nothing. Saw Munsell a few minutes, bought paper wrappers, took cars at 5 and home at 6 o'clock. 
Wednesday April 7, 1875. Slight fall of snow this morning which was gone before noon. Pres. Potter in office this morning, goes to Albany at no.on to ~ee Judge Allen about making some arrangement by which Dudley Observatory can be more intimately united to Union University, whose governors would in that case á become the Corporators of the Observatory and hold and manage its property. 
Prof Webster is expected tonight from the West Coast of Florida where he has been collecting this winter for the Collections of Natural History. Judge Potter came to the office this P. M. at 4 o'clock for a paper in the Lowber suit, spoke of our meeting as a love feast when compared with that of Friday, which he thought had exercised beneficial influence. He informed me that the Comm. --Judge Allen, Judge Potter and Dr. Backus --had consented to paying the Pres. 5,500 Ds in land as he demanded in full for all his claims by reason of the donations he had obtained for College the past 4 yrs. 
Thursday April 8, 18 7 5, Rain. 
Friday April 9, 1875. This morning at 8 o'clock the President came to 
my office. Prof. Staley was present. Among other things I asked him 
to endorse a check from Brown Bros and Co. for int[erest] on the Jno. 
Dav. Wolfe Fund which had been made payable to his order, showed 
him Dr. M. G. Planck's bill for med[ical] attendance of young Muller 
and Jenkins --southern students. He ordered it paid and charged to 
Jno. Dav. Wolfe Fund. Asked him also what should be done with Prof. 
Whitehorne's bill for taking care of young Muller who, while sick 
with typhoid fever, was cared for in his family; said charge to Jno. 
Dav. Wolfe Fund. 
Finally I said, "Dr., I am afraid the books are not safe in the 
Chapel nor in the upper Library room." He asked why. I answered 
because so many persons have keys to those rooms and so many 
students resort to the Chapel room for speaking. He then said he 
would employ Gowenlock --student --or some other student to 
remain there whenever any persons were present. He also requested 
me to call up this subject at our next faculty meeting for discussion. 
Mr. Selah Howell, a graduate some 31 years siQce, lectured in 
Chapel at 10 o'clock on English Literature. 
Saturday April 10, 1875. Fine warm day. At 9 o'clock with Prof. áStaly to have photos taken for students. Then to see Sexton about painting my portrait. This I am requested to do by President Potter, who is to see about the payment of it. President P. came to office at 11 o'clock, spoke about diverse things which have been discussed in the past, about rules for finance, duties of Treasurer, trust funds, deficiency of Productive funds to meet the Trusts, &c. I told him I was preparing a statement about these matters to be laid before the Comm. consisting of Judge Potter, Dr. Backus and himself for consideration and action if thought best. There appears now to be a prospect of clearing up the tangle of rules and resolutions of the 
Board and Fin. Comm. so that the Treasr. may know his duties and whom he is to apply to for authority in all cases of doubt. With all his really valuable qualities, the President has also considerable deficiencies of character for a business man, among which are want 
of order and system, unchangeableness.  fixedness  of  purpose,  stability  and  
Saturday April 10, 1875. again on Tuesday.  2 hours 3 . 5 -at Sextons studio,  am to go  
Sunday April 11, 1875.  Fine day.  To Pres. Church.  Dr. Backus  

preached in absence of Mr. Darling. 
Monday April 12, 1875. Cloudy and some rain. Faculty meeting at 4 o'clock. --President present, business of no great account. After meeting, President remained and had a talk about College finances, a very reasonable and pleasant conversation, during which he exhibited much deference to my opinions thereon and a depreciation of his own abilities as a financier. 
But one thing seems certain: that he now is in complete accord with the Finance Committee in regard to their having full power over the expenditure of monies, and as to the necessity for careful expenditures in the future, I told him I should never interpose my opinions, tho' never so contrary, to those of others, so as to make them offensive, that my views were probably different from most persons in regard to College finances and that I had no expectation they would be favorably received. He then asked what they were. In a word I said that College finances ought to be regulated by the same rules as those of any great commercial or manufacturing enterprise, that at least our income should be made to cover expenses and that in the long run if they did not, the College must suffer and great embarrasments ensue. Finally he asked me to make some financial rules and with him consult about the same. In leaving I said I had a file of the daily Tribune which I had a mind to sell to pay off some obligations. He said College wants just such a work for the Library and if I would find out what it was worth he would see if College could not buy it. 
Tuesday April 13, 1875. Snow all day. Mr. Jenkins, my assistant, sick with sore throat. In office all day. My wife's old schoolmate, Ruth Higbie Prime, called upon us today. President was in office twice, had conversation about his own affairs, his immethodical way of keeping his accts. and loss and confusion of vouchers &c&c. He intimated that the Memorial Hall would not perhaps be finished under two to five years for want of means to do it with. Mr. Jenkins laid up with cold. 
Wednesday April 14, 1875. Bright day, 8 in. of snow on ground this morning, sleighs running again. Prof. Webster returned last night from Florida where he has spent the winter collecting Nat. Hist. specimens along the West Coast. Mr. Jenkins still sick. 
Thursday April 15, 1875. Bright day. President P. goes to N. Y., Penns. and perhaps Washington this P.M. at 4.50, to return next Wednesday. Mr. Jenkins confined to ho[use]. 
Friday April 16, 1875. Snow again. Mr. J[enkins] still at home. 
Saturday April 17, 1875. Cool west wind. Mr. J[enkins] up. On Thurs. before the President left town, he left with me a paper for Judge Potter giving conditions &c. on which Capt. Thos. Ward might build a h0use for himself on College land. His father-in-law, Mr. Mott of Oswego, proposes to furnish the money and it is understood that College is to pay for said house when Capt. W. leaves, which must be within 2 or 3 yrs. as he will then in all probability be ordered off by the Dept. of War to another station. Here then is another project for turning the active capital ofU. C. into Dead Capital .... The price of the house is to be limited to 10,000 Ds. which if spent will entail a $35 rent upon the Coll. for some future Professor of 1000 Ds. per an. i.e. 10% on the price of the house, irrespective of the price of land. It is amazing how little sense and good judgement are used in the management of College finance. 
Sunday April 18, 1875. Cold west wind. To Bpt. Ch. Mr Day preached. In Pres. Ch. Dr. Backus d[itt]o. 
Monday April 19, 1875. Cold west wind. Heard that Mr. Clarkson N. Potter was here yesterday --left this morning. 
Tuesday April 20, 1875. High cold wind. President returned last night. 
Saturday April 21, 1875. From 9.10 to 11.30 a.m. at Sexton's for portrait. Son John came at 11 o'clock and left for Hudson at 1 o'clock --very busy at his work. 
Wednesday April 21,1875. Wind west and cold as usual. 
Thursday April 22, 1875. Wind ditto. 
Friday April 23, 1875. Pleasant day. Sat for portrait to Sexton. 
President, speaking of the amount of money Prof. Foster, now abroad, was to spend for apparatus, said he might spend out of the Jas. Brown Income 5000 or 5500 Ds. Prof. Jackson being present, said Prof. F. had already ordered an amt. of abt. 4.500 Ds. This conversation was in Treasurer's office in presence of Mr. Jenkins, my assistant. I am to write Prof. F. tomorrow on this matter. There seems to be some difference of opinion in regard to the amt. to be spent for app[aratus]. As usual, matters go on in a slipshod manner without much forethought or deliberation. The College finances will never be properly managed so long as so many persons meddle therein. 
Saturday April 24, 1875. Saw Judge P[otter] this morning on subject of Prof. Foster's apparatus, also saw Dr. Backus; arranged for them to meet Dr. Potter on Monday on this matter. Also spoke with Judge P. about Capt. Wards lease (see Ap.17). I had received the impression from the President that Judge P. was mainly in favor of further[ing] this business, but now it seems Judge P. received all his impressions from the Pres. and is decidedly opposed to promising to pay 7000 to 10,000 for a house it may [use] only next year; for Capt W.'s furlough is but 3 yrs. and 2 have already past, and it seems also that the President is also backing down and offering another plan. 
Sunday April 25, 1875. At home all day with wife, who for last week has been sick of the "shingles," high fever and great uneasiness. 
Monday April 26, 1875. Wife still sick. 
Tuesday April 27, 1875. Sat at Sexton's for picture. This picture was ordered by the President ,to be paid for by I know not whom, for the College. Those of Drs. Jackson, Lewis and Foster are also to be painted by him. Called on Judge Potter and Dr. Backus of the Finance Comm. to consult them about 1. How much money was to be sent to Prof. Foster now in Europe for the purchase of apparatus. Answer: to be spent for his own app. $6,000; for Prof. Perkins app. etc., 200; [ditto for] Staley,100; [ditto for] books,400: $6,700. He has already had an order for £300 and I am to send him 1100 more, making in all £1,400 in gold and exclusive of Exchange, freight, insurance &c. 
2. about the payment to the President of 5,500 Ds. in land ordered by the Comm. --Judges Potter, Allen, and Dr. Backus --to be taken from land at Hunter's Pt. belonging to Union College. if any can be found. But the Pres't. took $6,000 worth of land belonging to Nott-Trust, which was leased to the Hop Extract Co. This complicates the matter and if carried out makes it necessary for Union College to buy said 6000 Ds. worth of land from Nott Trust. which the Fin. Comm. do not feel disposed to do. 
Wednesday April 28, 1875. Fine day. Have been arranging matters for the sale of my old house and lot, now owned by Union College, to Prof. R. B. Welch. The sale is for 7,500 Ds. cash. On the property there are two mortgages amounting to 7,000 --2000 to Mrs. Eliza D Matthews, 5000 to myself from S. V .R. Ford who bo't. the property of me in 1870 for $10,000. The College bo't it of him last year for abt. 13,000 Ds., a most injudicious purchase on which it will lose 3000 to 5000 Ds. The College desires to obtain the purchase money to send to Prof. Foster in Europe to buy apparatus with --another injudicious thing to do now when we are spending largely beyond our income. To retain this money College propose~ to give Mrs. M[atthews] and myself the bond of College for the amount of our claims. Wife still sick. 
Thursday April 28, 1875. Fine day. At Sextons to sit for portrait. Quarter before 9 o'clock a mob of students in Chapel room where most of College books have been stored by order of Pres. Potter. I asked Jewell why and by whose direction they were meeting there. He answered by order of the President. In this way the safety of the Library is endangered. I have called attention of him, Dr. Backus and Judge Potter to the danger of loss of books where they now are placed, and clearly stated that I should not be responsible for them. 
Friday April 30, 1875. Cool and pleasant. President at 5 o'clock P. 
M. sent for me and among other things spoke of Prof. Whitehorne's debts, which he says amt. to $1,300 and are very pressing; that he (Pres. P.), Dr. Backus and Judge Potter had consulted upon this matter; that Prof W. had promised to live on 300 Ds. a quarter and allow the 200 Ds. over to be paid on his debts, until all are paid. I said first that Prof. W. could not live on 300 Ds. a quarter and secondly that all his creditors would not come into this measure. The Pres. answered that it must be so; and also intimated that College must lend him its credit. I answered that that would be a bad precedent and an injustice to the other Professors who were doing equally good work and who would have reason to find fault if it were known. 
Secondly, I told the President that the lots he had selected at Hunters Point for the 5,500 Ds. which the Finance Comm. are to give him in land did not belong to U. College but to Nott Trust, and he answered that he would take some others that did belong to U. C. 
Saturday May 1, 1875. All day figuring and negociating with Prof. R. 
B. Welch who has bought of Coll. No. 189 Union St. for 7,500 Ds. cash but cannot today make out the whole amt. Finally I agreed to take his note on demand for 3,056 Ds. with assignment of mortgages as security and delivered the deed to him. 
Sunday May 2, 1875. Windy and cool. All day at home with wife, who is quite sick still of the shingles. 
Monday May 3, 1875. Cold high wind still. Mr. Jenkins not up this morning, up in P. M. 
Tuesday May 4, 1875. Wife still quite sick --in much pain. Paying off salaries. Prof. Whitehorne informs me that the President has promised that College shall pay his debts amounting to $1,300. I said the President had spoken with me on the subject, but I had not received quite that impression, but that I would consult with Dr. Backus and Judge Potter on the subject. 5 o'clock saw Judge áP., who says he understood that College was not to guarantee Prof W's debts or pay them, only to retain 200 Ds. quarterly from his salary if he so elected and distribute the same among his creditors. 
Wednesday May 5, 1875. At Sextons in morning sitting for picture. Warm day. Wife still sick, Mother also. 
Thurs.day May 6, 1875. Rain. Wife and Mo[ther] still sick. 
áFriday, May 7, 1875. For the first time within a week the President has been out, having been laid up with a cold. I paid him his salary and then spoke about Prof. Whitehouse's salary; said I had advised him to see all his creditors and arrange with them to pay them pro rata 200 Ds. a quarter as he did some years ago. The President assented to the propriety of this advice, saying it would not do, as a precedent, for College, to pay Professors debts or to engage to be responsible for them. Sat again 9 to 11 o'clock at Sexton's for picture. 
Saturday May 8, 1875. Rainy and cold. C. P. Collier called and sat an hour this morning in office. John came at 6 o'clock. 
Sunday May 9, 1875 Warm day, the first of the season, At home with wife, who is still sick. 
Monday May 10, 1875. Cooler. John returned to Hudson. President called me into his office to talk of Prof. Whitehome's debts. He says he told him College could not pay or be responsible for his debts, but would arrange to have what he desired to allow on his debts to be retained by the Treasurer and distributed pro-rata among his creditors. He desires and thinks some of the friends of College might purchase some of College lands at H. Point. 
Tuesday May 11, 1875. Fine day. In morning at Sexton's for picture. 
Wednesday May 12, 1875. South wind. 
Thursday May 13, 1875. By request of President Potter went with him to Judge Potter's house to confer with him about a lease to Mrs. Ward, wife of Capt. Ward, of a lot of land about 500 ft. easterly of the Natural History Hall. It is agreed that she shall have this lot rent free and that College shall pay her an appraised sum not exceeding $7000 for the house she shall build thereon whenever [she] shall leave it. Now as Capt. W. is a U.S. officer detailed to this College for only three years, two which have passed, and likely to be ordered off next year to some other port, this contract would seem to be most unwise and improper for the College. It seems however that our authorities are bewitched with the notion of building, and constantly building, Professor's residences. So long as our authorities have the idea that a College consists of buildings, there will be no change: the education and discipline of the young men is little thought of. 
Friday May 14, 1875. At Sexton's sitting for picture till 12 o'clock. 
Saturday May 15, 1875.  All day in office.  
Sunday  May 16, 1875.  At home  all day  with wife, who  is still  
confined to the house.  

Monday May 17, 1875. Weather still cool All the morning at Sexton's for picture. 
Tuesday May 18, 1875. Fine day. 
Wednesday May 19, 1875. President left for New York. 
Thursday May 20, 1875. H. S. Anable in office a few minutes 9-12; sat for picture at Sexton's. 6 o'clock. Cousin Ann Sexton of N. Y. came --dau[ghter] of my Mo[ther's] brother, Sarni. Libbey. 
Friday May 21, 18 7 5. Saw President Potter in office and spoke to him about my files of newspapers --Daily Tribune, &c. and offered them to the College to be paid for in land. He said College ought to have them and would speak to Curators of Library and Fin. Comm. about it. 
Saturday May 22, 1875. Sat till 12 o'clock at Sextons for picture. 
Sunday May 23, 1875. At Bpt. Church. 
Monday May 24, 1875. President Coppee of Lehigh Univ. lectures this week every day at 3 o'clock in College Chapel on Moors in Spain. 
Tuesday May 25, 1875. Mr. Stephen Yates very sick, not likely to recover. Cousin Ann Sexton left today for Cleveland 0., where her husband is attending the Gen. Assem., Pres. Ch. 
Wednesday May 26, 1875. At Sexton's sitting for picture 9 1/2 to 12. 
Thursday May 27, 1875. Prof. Wells on a collecting tour into N. J., Penn., and N. York, for making up endowments for Professorships -.Lewis, Jackson, and Foster; expected home tomorrow. 
Friday May 28, 1875. Alumni meeting at Amsterdam tonight of Alum. of the Mohawk country. Prof. Staley will go up and Prof. Wells will be there. 
Saturday May 29, 1875. Prof. Wells returned last night --at Newark 
N. J. he obtained 700 Ds. for Professorial endowment, with promise from Mr. Moore of an item in his will to the amt. of 30,000 for the endowment of a Professorship. 
Sunday May 30, 1875. At Bpt. Ch. in morning. Mr. Stephen Yates is very sick without hope of recovery --Bright's disease of kidneys, gangrene in foot &c. 

Monday May 31, 1875. Decoration Day, celebrated in College by gymnastic games and exercises. 
Tuesday June 1, 1875. Busy closing books for the year. Mr. S. Yates died Monday morn'g at 2 o'clock, to be buried on Thursday in vault in Alb. Cemetery. 
Wednesday June 2, 1875. Edw. Magoun up, son-in-law of Mr. Yates. 
Thursday June 3, 1875. Funeral of Mr. Yates at 11 o'clock. Mr. S. Magoun was up, goes down with the body to Alb. at 1 o'clock. Closed College books --deficit $39,000 in income to meet expenditures, bad showing but will hardly be any better so long as our affairs are so loosely managed. Capt. Tho. Ward broke ground on lane east of S. College for his house --to be built by his father-in-law, but to be paid for when he leaves by College --another bad piece of financing. 
Friday June 4, 1875. Finished Treasr. Report and sent it to printer. 
Saturday June 5, 1875. Proof of 7 pp. of report recd. from printer. 
[The rest of the page is blank] 
Persons who were carried away captive or killed by the Indians: 
1690 Two sons (instead of one) of Adam Vrooman Barent and Wouter were carried away by the Indians. In 1698, A. V. went to Canada to procure their release. It was stated that one of them had become a Catholic. 
1690 Claas De Graaf of the "Hock" and his son Jesse were carried away by the same party. m[?] the latter returned but the former, by reason of his age becoming a burthen to the Indians, they cut his thumbs off and let him bleed to death --Tradition. Nie. Veeder, Centenarian 








