PV.BLISI-IEDo\.VE:EK L Y R~·THE: 5TVDE NTS ·OF~ VNIOJ\I ~.COLLEGE

' ' ... .. :£.' \'. td~ COLLEGE L\BRAR1 . . ·.. . •rr& SUil; ?Jfffi; Wl[?.iflf[G:{llj(< Jifii~ lj[f:21Jj@2Jlj[. :ZII r==.J c:=:!J -- THE! PVBL ISH ED·WE:EK. L Y BY-THE STVDENTS· OF·VNION~ COLLEGE

'I'HE CONCORDIENSIS UNIO UNIVERSITY C·HARLES Al.~EXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The col1ege offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Conrsf.\s lending to the degree of A. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in additiotl to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophmore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. · 2. Course leading to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTH'IC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3, Course leadina- to th.e degree of B. s. Scr~NTIFIC CouRSE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 111. Course lending to the degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING COURSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, cotn:prising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles <>f the special branches of the pro- fc:'\sion, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRsE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intend~d to give a broad and thorough engineering c-ducatton, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. &5, Courses leading to graduate degreee. COURSE LEADING TO DEGREE OF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone 2845 for free sample of our spe<\ial Coffee at 25c or Teas at 30c CouRsE LEADlNG To DEGREE Of M.S. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE I.,EAIHNG To DEGRI~E 01~ PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admiso .;;ion the degree of 111. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalog:ues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full in forma~ tion sent on application to : WILLIS G. TuCKER_, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. P AE.KER, }. NEWTON FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $ro; tuition fee. $IIo. For catalogue or other information, address: }OHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHA.Rl\1ACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHAR:&i:'\.CY-Graded course of instruction comprising two tern1s of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For cata 1og-ue ?:iv1ng full information, address. ALFRED B. HuESTED, Secretary 43 Eagle ·st., Albany, N. Y. '\Everything for the College Man except Exams~, GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Hall Phone 1896· W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate S.A Y YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CON CORDY ,. ·-

d TiiE CONCORDIENSIS In the''Wee Sma' Hours'' When you're \cramming\ for an exam- When you're ''boning'' for . a quiz- When your making up that \condition\- Or when you're wrestling with the intracies of \Analyt\- After the steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly- THEN you'll appreciate the cheery and cheering warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you'll buy one. For sale by the Schenecta4y Illuminating Co. Made by General Electric Company Schenectady, • New York The sooner you pay us a • • VISit that much sooner will you realize what clothes economy means Suits & Overcoats · $10, $12.50 & $15 ' Clothes Sho~ - - 'W'Cii'\ 310 STATE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE. CONCORDIENSIS Home-made Candies and C. & P. Salted Nuts ~and wiches Ullsurpassed The Sign of the Goldeu Robin TEA ROOM S.PECIALIST:Si: 31 Steuben Street, E. H. SOUDER Jeweler and Optician 99 North Pearl Street ALBANY Special work in class pins, badges and . medals. Students suffering from eye-strain and •· headaches should consult. GUS HERMANSEN, Optometrist 1()9 No. Pearl Street SUITS M ,~.nE. TO 1 0R.' D'ER M:Ot. . · $ZO~oo to '$40.00 --AT--- S 'E. . M' I ,··ll'l ' ,., : · • . ·~ !1 er s 34 utd.36 MAIDEN LANE A..LBANY, N'. Y. THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany GRANGE SARD, · • - President T. I. Van ANTWERF, - Vice-President MAC NAUGHTON MI~LER, Sec'y .-Treas. ARTHUR L. AND.ltF:WS, • Gen.eral Counsel Main office, 47 State·S.t. Park Branch, 200 Was:hington· Jlla~u 1Jjunr}J Steuben St., Albany, N. Y. • K. H. Solaghian Photographs \W~ile Yot1 Vlait'' Fellows: Drop in for ~:n informal p·h o1o - yoll'll appreciate it ta1er. . . , MERCURY PH,O-TO STUDIO 107 No. Pearl St. Albany, N. Y. ALBANY ART UNION. Photographs---Artistic 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N. Y. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\

THE CONCORDIENS,IS Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Automobile Supp]ies 524 Union St., corner Barret Agency for Pope and Eagle Motorcycles Get Tomorrow;• Style To-day in a Regal Shoe PRINTING THAT IS RIGHT, REASONABLE The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you · AND 0 1 N TIME will see to•morrow in other Shoes. M. STARKMAN Authorized Agent &rqrurrta!ly Art Jrras J. H, COMO, Prop. 451 State St. Schenectady 206 So. Centre St.,. Near State Phone 1823-J TILLY, Th!J Barber We are the favored among fhe College Boys and solicit your trade. \THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry 448 STATE STREET Telephone Schenectady ROSES, ORCHIDS AND VIOLETS 11 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 · The Newlan~~- Von Ritter Company PRINTERS & BINDERS Of high-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, La.w, Library, Magazine and all kinds of ::Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers aRc Devices and Special Ruling .. The only Jon Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FlFTH A VENUE New York City GERBER---- ''45 Seconds From The Blue Gate\-~GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Bring it here and it will be done righ.t. Work called for and delivered. 146 NOTT TER~A.CE TELEPHONE 4258-W PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE -CONCORDIENS~IS \The House of Fine -Clothes.,'' F. W. Mullin J. F. Leona-rd A. R. Mulli-n PROPRIETORS . B A B BITT'S Oiuuit & Qtnmpuuy New 1914 Spring display of HIGHEST GRADE CLOTHING Affords ample opportunity for individual style distinct· iveness. Nev~r before have we pre- pared to meet the discrim- inating choice of college men as we have this season. This store of fine clothes is the men's style center of this tri-city territory and cordially invites you to come in and inspect th-e new spring styles. There are still some except- ional good selections in winter suits and overcoats, on our rear tables, at $4.85 and $7.85. Babbitt & Co. 451-453 Broadway \Albany's Greatest Clothers'' ESTABLISHED 1840 ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS ..... Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper ·52 NORTH PEARL STREET Albany, N.Y. When you Break your glasses send them here. We will repair them promptly. No waiting 3 or 4 days Meyrowitz Bros. 68 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. SAY YOU SAW lT IN THE ••coNCORDY 1 \ -

- V . •t lSI. We Solicit Your Patronage You Need Our Guarantee STEINWAY WE:BER Our Victor Parlor Cluett & Sons AND PI:ANOLA P!IA'NOS ONE PRICE PIANO HOUSE !508 STATE ST., SCHENECTAiD~. N. Y SOLE DOCTORS Its the soles of the peop,le we keep in view, For we are the doctors of boot and shoe, And we serve the living, and not the dead, With the best of leather, wax, nails and thread. We can .sew on a sole, or nail it fast, And do a good job and make it la~t. There is nothing snide about what we can do, Doubt not our statement for work proves it true. We can give you a lift too in this lite, Not only you, but your family and wife. A great many patients come to our door, Worn out and run down beside feeling sore. Though we don't poultice, plaster or pill, We cure all shoes, no matter how ilL Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works S. Kleiman, Mgr. 521 State Street Telephone 34 56 HOLTZMAN'S ESTABLISHED 1871 We have Clothed the S·ons of \OLD UNION\ for the past 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADLER-ROCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES fj) \If It's Made of ~Rubber We Have It'' m - Athletic ,Goods Rubber Auto Goods Goods Auto Tires t!l Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 23 Stores LA TEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoea are worn· All styles and leather• HOLTZMAN'S LINDSAY BROS. CO. Schenectady's Largest Clothiers COR. STATE AND WALL STS. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRON\IZERS

' ,, THE CONCORDIENSIS DRAWING SUPPLIES --- BEST QUALITY--- LOW PRICES Drawing Instruments, Drawing Boards, Tee Squars, Angles, Drawing Paper., Drawing Pens, Art ·Gum and Ink. EVERYTHING FOR THE ST:UDENT ALBANY HARDWARE & IRON CO. 39 and 43 State Street ELE~CTRIC QUICK SHOE REPAIR SHOP S. SOBELL, Manager I am your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 LIBERTY STREE·T THE UNION of a Sophmc;»re or Freshman with a few dollars which will stay t~y him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in T:he Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON \The College Photographer\ ~RN!! 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street !~~ ~~~~ D. B. PAIGE, Sigrna Phi House NEAR BARNEY'S 11990078 1199113 College Repn:sentativc I am prepared to supply your wants for the coming social func- • ttons. There's Shirts, Ties, Collars, Gloves, Scarfs, Studs, Silk and Opera Hats. \Tango Shirts\ $2.00 and $3.00. Joe Nusbaum, 336 State St. Gazette Building SAY YOU SAW rr IN THE \ CONCORDY\ v u v v g v d f j \ t a 1 I 1 t t

Concordiensis VOL. 31 MARCH 5, 1914 NO. 17 '~'THAT WESLEYAN GAME\ All the dope vvent wrong Friday night, wnen the doughty 4 '.B eaverites\ trimmed the hard-playing Middletown Methodists to a. fare-tltee-well. The fans were all keyed up for a very tigkt battle. As the ga111e pro- gressed, however, the high state of nervous tension began to wear off, for the Garnet was winning in a walk. The W esleyanites w.ere outclassed in .every department ,of the game, and also fig-ured second throu~gh the various styles of play indulged in. . Shooting was accurate t(} the superlative degree, pass work was perfection, strch as fillled \Fred's\ heart with joy, unconfined. At such times the team showed phen()menai speed, and victory over the Red and Black was inevitable. When, however, th-e visit- or:s showed a tendency to be rough, o u. r men were also there with the heavy stuff and fought them to a finish. Winchester and Eton, a:£1-American for- wards of the Wes[eyan quintet, were played t() a &tandstill by our own \Dave\ Beaver and Ernest Hongh.ton, respectively. The la·tter broke the ice with a free throw and a field goal in succession, giving us a three- point lead at the very first of the gam e. P1aying was hard and fast ior several min- utes, ;but not another point was registered until Woods ancl Houghton each tallied with a goal from the field.. Westcott scored from the field for Wesleyan, and the Garnet hupg up four points in return, two, on fouls, by Houghton, and the same on a circus throw from a difficult angle by \Dave\ Beaver. Trevethick and Winchester each scored for the visitors, the latter on a wonderful basket from deep center. The score at half time was 15 to 9 in our favor .. The Middletowners resorted to rough tactics in the second half, but the Garnet men met them head on, and scored almost at will. During the period Wesleyan regis- tered five points on free throws, while Union was making ten points on baskets and four on fouls. The score: Wesleyan (14) B. F. F.T. Winchester, 1£. . .•............ 1 Craig, If. . ................... 0 Eaton, r£. ..................... 0 Allison, c. . .................. 0 Boyd, c. . .................... 0 Trevethick, lg. . .............. 1 Westcott, rg. . ............... 2 Hinsley, rg .................. 0 2 0 2 3 1 3 5 0 0 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 Totals .................... 4- 16 6

' ; '· l' I :' ,, '' '·· i ! ' i 'I 1,' 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS Union (29) B. F. F.T. Haubner, If. . ................ 1 6 0 Scoby, If. . .................... 0 0 0 Cleveland, If. . ............... 0 0 0 J. Beaver, rf ................. 1 1 0 Woods, c. . .................. 2 3 0 Houghton, lg. . .............. 2 0 9 D. Beaver, rg ....... · ......... 4 3 0 Totals.~ ........ ·····~··· .10 13 9 Summary: Score-Union~ 29; Wesleyan, 14. Referee-Tilden. Umpire-Leon. Time- keeper-Baker. Scorekeeper-Earl Weller. Time of halves-T·wenty minutes. Attend- ance-2,000. SOMETHING IS COMING! Listen, fellows, there's a rousing good time coming for you on the 30th of March if you will only take advantage of the op- portunity as it is offered. There's going to be a general get-together in the gym and a dinner in honor of the basketball team. If you want to see and hear some new and original things, if you want to get into the general good spirit of Union life, if you want to catch a happy smile that won't wear off until Spring term is gone, if you are a real, true, loyal Union man and want to mingle with other true and loyal Union men-come around to the basketball dinner March 30th. For further particulars, see members of the Press Club. B·ASEBALL. 'Ray, team ! What team? Football, bas- ketball, tennis, debating? No, wrong every time. 'Ray for the baseball team-season of 1914-Uniort College! Two feet of snow on the ground? Well what of it? What do you think we're going to have a snow- ball scrap for, anyway? Don't you think a couple of hundred \frosh\ and \sophs\ can clean up a measly two feet of snow? Got about a ton of it down your neck when . ''f h \ d\d 't ? you wete a ros; , ·. 1. n you. Captain Naumann, as soon as '''Jake'' B,eaver and his basketball demons win a few more games, you'll be the big noise around here. Here's what \Dutch'\ has to say for himself: ''Regula,r baseball practice will begin on the first Monday after exan1s. Fron1 no\v until then it is expected that all who have any ability whatsoever, or who think they have, will try to condition themselves both physically and mentally, because condition and conditions keep a great many out of baseball.\ Sounds like business, doesn't it? Ham- ilton hasn't a basketball team, but we're mighty glad she's got a base ball team. ] ust a few of the embryo \Ty\ Cobbs and \Christy\ Mathewsons still in our midst, gentlemen, are Naumann, Bar:clay, the two Beavers, Houghton, Smith, WDods, Hummer, Jenkins, Keleher, Zimmer and in- numerable freshmen yet to be heard from. It has also been reported that an effort will be made to obtain O'Keefe from the Albany department, and another man who will prob- ably come to us from that source is a pitcher named Boler, a former member of the Rut~ gers varsity team. Boler was prevented from playing last year by the one-year rule, but he has outlived this, and should be a valuable addition. THE GAME WITH R. P. I. Union Scores a Second Victory in as Many Days~ Before the largest crowd that has ever thronged the Troy gym, Union drew the big end of the score in a contest with R. P. I. which was in reasonable doubt till the last whistle blew. The final score was 27 to 15. Union enthusiasts who traveled over (J f f: e v I f r ( ' s f

? ,, ' THE C-O_NCO:RDIENSIS 11 to the collar city realize that the game was one of the ,most thriUing the team has played this year. During son1e parts of the first and second halves ,Rensselaer threat- ened the Garnet's laurels very seriously, but was finally overcome. The fact that the W·esleyan game on the previous night was a very strenuous one, from which Union had no time to recover, tnay be regarded as one reason why Union did not run up a larger score on R. P. I., whose record this year has not been as satisfactory as it might have been. Another fact to consider is that the Cherry and White played their heads off to win, and showed much better form than has been theirs throughout the earlier parts of the season. The Beavers, Houghton, Woods and Haubner took the floor at the start of the game and no substitutions were made. R. P. I.'s fighting spirit made a decided sen- sation when in the middle of the first half they were two points to the good. But a wonderful basket from beyond the middle of the court by Woods, followed in quick succession by equally sensational hurls by \Jake\ Beaver and \Erny\ Houghton changed the nature of the struggle. Through clever passing and true shooting, the Gar- net rolled up a total of 18 points against Rensselaer's 11. Another remarkable spurt in the first part of the second period again put R. P. I. within striking distance Klf victory, but, with the score 15 to 18, Union got back in- to form again and shattered the opponents' defense for a total of 27 points to 15. Houghton and Beaver were responsible for this second spurt by caging successive goals. Individually the play of each Gar- net player equaled, if it did not exceed, R. P. I.'s play. \Erny\ Houghton kept his man and a substitute from scoring a single point, while \Joe\ Haubner held Kinloch, captain and star of the Cherry and White. to a blank score, winning two points him- self. \Jake\ Beaver scored four baskets, ~'Teedy\ w·oods two, and \Dave\ Beaver ()ne. A ]arge crowd of men from the college ac- companied the team to Troy and kept en- thusiasm at fever heat. The faithful band was in evidence with its faithful leader, ''Old Bill\ Mudge, who substituted for three missing trombones by playing his own w. k. cornet with more than usual vigor. Altogether it was a very auspicious occa- sion, especially when reports of the Col- gate-Wesleyan game proved Colgate's ami- cable regard for Old Union. \Jake\ Beaver ., wasn't satisfied, so he says, but these cap- tains, you know-they are insatiable-as dear old Da udet would say. ·The score: Rensselaer. FB.FT.TP. Conklin, rf. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 0 () :n Clark, rf. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 () 0 Ickle, If. . ................... 2 () 4 McManus, c. . ................ 2 5 9 Kinloch, rg. . ................ 0 0 0 Bh 1 1 () . 2 e an, g. . ................. . Totals .................... 5 5 15 Union. FB. FT. TP. J. Beaver, rf .................. 4 0 8 Haubner, If. . ................ 1 0 2 Woods, c ....................... 2 0 4 D. Beaver, rg. . .............. 1 0 2 Houghton, lg. . .............. 3 5 11 Totals .................... 11 5 27 Summary: Score-Union, 27; Rensselae:. 13. Reeree-. Benson, Col urn bia. Timekeeper -Gallagher. Time of halves-Twenty min- utes.

12 · r, THE CONCOROIENSIS Our esteemed dld friend the \Idol again received recognition in the new book re- cently published to be sent to sub-freshmen. The book is a very cvttractive little pamph- let, showing scenes about college and con- taining pictures relating to the more important college activities. It ~ontains a picture of the Press ·Club, the Cos1nopolitan Club, a picture of one of our campus meet- ings and some pictures taken on the in- terior of the fraternity houses. The book makes us realize, to a greater extent than ever before, the fact that Union College is rich both in beautiful campus views and in credita bll e organizations. \ NEW RULES ADOPTED·~ The Terrace Council has adopted the fo1-\ lowing college rules, in addition to Rules 2 to :?, inclusive, in the Y. M. !C'.- A. Hand Book: L The official freshman hats must be worn in this city on all occasions until Mov~ ing-up Day. Exceptions are--Sundays~ 1\'hanksgiving Junior vV eek and Easter hoi ... idays, and all out ... of-town trips of college organizations. 2. All freshmen shall be able to repeat any verse of Alma Mater when required to do so. 3. Canes may be carried by ,upper-class ... tnen, and by sophomores aft(!r Moving-up Day. No man shall carry an official cane unless his class shall hafe won a cane-rush. This rule shall apply within tile limits of Schenectady. 4. High hats may be worn on1ly when the carrying of canes is permitted. 5. Moustaches may be worn only by men in their junior and senior years. 6. All underclass violations o'f rules reg- ulating college customs shall be punished by the sophomores at the direction of the Terrace Council. INTERCOLLEGIATE NOTES. In the course of a lecture delivered in . Albany recently, Dr. Stryker of Hamilton said: \I have said I did not believe we have thirty students in Hamilton. [f we have that number our average is as good as that of other colleges. A student is a man who is ostensibly and actively devoting his time to study. No man is a student who studies less than five or six hours a day. I am perfectly sure that the average man in Ham ... ilton or any other college does not study three hours a day.u Mj depa on tl . an 1r \tV h) Tl ly d Uni, T: Rut: . tain Rut c ized T the 5-1. era. 000 \ . sate Sm wr by ga . 18 St Cc w~

T·HE CONCORDIEN.S·IS 13 Michigan University has organized a fire departm\ent to aid the city in fighting fires on the campus. University of Rochester is going to hold an interclass song contest in the near future. \tVhy not have one here? The Rochester varsity track team recent- ly defeated the team representing Alfred University. The score was 60-26. The N. Y. U. gym team defeated the Rutgers gym team recently, 29 to 24. Cap- tain Cremer, N. Y. U., and Captain Garpa, Rutgers, wer,e the star performers. Columbia University has a newly-organ- ized students' band. Success to them. The Yale hockey team recently defeated the Williams hockey team by a score of 5-l. Individuality of the several players n1arked the game. Northwestern u·niversity is to have sev- eral new chapter houses, costing from $20,- 000 to $30,000. \You're going to get me in (Dutch,',. said the ice cream to the spoon as Frank Smith took his initial dig. LITERATURE AND ENGLISH WRITERS IN BRAZIL. A very interesting fact to any Brazilian who comes to North America is presented by the ignorance of the Americans as re- garding the other civilizations and of what is going on in the world outside the United States. Nobody down home would ever say that Caruso is the best singer in the world. It would be difficult also to find anybody wiUing to take it for granted that the Amer- ican navy and army are the best in the world. We really do not know to what to attri- bute that. Of course, J3 razil has n_()t ac- complished much until recently, whi[e the United States has done more than any other nation. Maybe this accounts for the blind- ness of the average American citizen, as regards foreign civilization. That desire of the Brazilian to know. what is going on in the word, we reason why English writers down there. think,. is the are known In order to give a complete idea of how the English writers are known in Braz:il, we have to study carefully the many ways by which literature is there understood, and also the tendencies of our people regarding this matter. First of all, the Brazilian people are no- toriously fond of literature, history a.nd any subject into which eloquence, mysticism, or chivalry enters. Expression, as a rule, must be carefully observed when ever dealing with Brazilians. Our love for the beautUul and fine is exceptional. We inherited from our Iberian ancestors that sense of art peculiar to the Mediterranean people of Europe. And the art of expression, either in oratory or in theatre, very conspicuously occupies the first place among the other different branches into which art is divided. A brilliant description, where play of words may take place, where vague thoughts may be put forth, is in some ways very much appreciated by our people. A great many of our writers, old and young, use and abuse that faculty. The French prose, with its finesse, deli- cacy, unmatched in the world, has ia Brazil faithful admirers. Of course, the great English poets and writers cannot go without notice in a country where the peo])1e have such a disposition of mind.

•' : ~ 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS In our gymnasiums, institutions offering a six- years' course, where the :Ooys are pre- pared for the different colleges, a careful study of literature and elocution is secured. The history of titerature is studied in the most proper way. To the boys is given a very fair idea about the different phases of literature in the world's history. .To every great prose writer or poet of any nation'ality is given a thought. The teacher, usualiy, runs over the 1natter, try- ing to bring out the methods, systems and originality of the author. Comparison be- tween authors of different countries are carefully observed. The study of history, which goes along at the same time, is, as a rule, taught by the same man, and this makes easier the com- prehension of the different ideas expounded by several authors in different tin1es. Now, regarding English literature, the most attention is paid to poetry, wherein Shakespeare, Milton an~ Byron excel. They are thought of as poets of the first rank. The Shakespearean tragedies are widely known, not only among the students in the gymnasiums, but also among the people, who get an idea of them through the thea- tres. It is very common to hear somebody speak about Hamlet or of Byron in bac- a,laureate speeches. Byron is a fascinating type to the Bra- zilian people. His life and adventures are the causes of that admiration. We shall not forget the cause for which he fought, and that counts for much. Even when the language is spoken in schools, the English· prose is almost disre- garded, on account of its low standing, as compared with French, Spanish, Italian Portuguese and Brazilian writers. Walter Scott however, is very well known. Dickens, because of his dryness, quite anatomic methods, is completely dis- approved. Huxley, Darwin, Arno~d and alil those immortal scientific writers are not well known in Brazil. The reason for that is that France is the source of Brazilian infor- mation for science. We learn through France what the scientific world ll.a.s ac- corn plished. Nowadays conditions are changing-. The Brazilian, let it pass, is extraordinarily broad-minded and versatile. And th,at cos- mopolitan feeling, we might say, is gr.owing fast day by day. ]. A. RIBEIRO!,. -'16. A REFLECT:ION Curtain rises. What do I see? Shades of ]rving, Shakespeare! It's a scream from fo()tlights up. Here we have Mr. \Gus wh€) cares not for stupid old bishops or the \Higher Life,\ with his sarcastic \[ don't want to be personal, little girl.\ Little girl, did you say? No, indeed; very much grown up, if you please, is Miss ''Kitty\ Clarges, actress, devising witch, vvho re- veals her heart \an inch at a time.\ Enter the bishop, with his quaint, hidden ways, and is offered the choice of a cup of tea or whisky and soda. He does the natural thing for a bishop to do and tak~s t- whisky and soda, thank you. Mrs. Meadows, in decided contrast, is the only stable person concerned. She does a little thinking on her own part, and inci- dentally sets Miss Kitty to thinking. To say that the little skit was all life from beginning to end is speaking very mildly. T·he whole cast deserves the high- est commendation. It was a pretty skit, well written and as well acted. Kansas recently voted against the adop- tion of the honor system, with a 95 per cent majority. soP 'ri cur the 4 test men The \Fo: ernr Stat tear clas in g. pnz hen teat Ric Jan rna: Tn alt( tim \P: r tra col COl for Ri~ SOJ . lZ~ . tn: • lo: sp G· at

THE CONCORDIEN~SIS 15 SOPH,OMORE -FRESHMAN DEBATE. A New Activity Introduced. 'fhe sophon'lore-freshrnan debate will oc- cur next lV1onday night ip connection with the \pie social\ at Silli,man Hall. 'The con- test will start at a quarter of eight. Three members of the faculty will act as judges. The quest~on to be discussed is a live one: \For and against commission form of gov- ernment for second-class cities of New York State.\ 'The question is a good one, the teams ar~e good, and it is the first under- class debate-· so it should be very interest- ing. As before announced, an individual prize of ten dollars has been offered; so here is rnore inducement. The sophomore team will consist of: C. Foster Brown, Richard E. Taylor, C. Newell Smith, and James B. Taylor as alternate~ The fresh- man team is: Jacob M. Frankel, John H. Tregurtha and Frank B. Van Avery; the alternate has not been announced at the time of writing. \PREXY\ SPEAKS ON ATHLETICS. That the present methods of athletic training and management in our American colleges do more harm than good to all concerned, and that there is urgent need for reform, was the theme of President Richmond's address before the Upper Hud- son Plti Beta Kappa Association, an organ- ization formed in Albany last Saturday night. Dr. Richmond stated that the Phi Beta Kappa key represented a broad train- ing and that this idea was rapidly being lost sight of in our present methods of specialization. He spoke of the ancient Greeks, who were equally proficient in athletics .and scholarship. He continued: \It is not so today, as athletics are man- aged in Gur American colleges. The aver- age coUege athletic is not a good student, and the whole system of training, for the high -class athlete, is adapted to produce a low-class student, if not a low-class man. 1 believe in athletics. There is nothing that has contributed more to raise the general tone of college life in the last generation than a wholeson'l·e interest in athletics. The developn1ent of winning teams, however, is another question. lt is not only ·extravagant, but unwholesome and often degrading.\ We are assured by '''Chuck='' Waldron, who was also present at the dinner, that \Prexy\ did not, and could not, have bad Union in mind when he made his remarks. We pride ourselves on the fact that our athletics are clean, practically as well as theoretically. We do not turn a man from college merely because he is a good athlete, hte1.t neither can a n1an stay in cDHege m:ere- ly because he is a good athlete. President Richmond has given voice to a sentiment that will soon develop into a live issue. He deprecates the professionalism and narrow- ness that has crept into our present-day college athletics. But we can heave a sigh of relief. The shoe doesn't fit-we need not put it on. CLASSICAL CLUB. The Classical Club ·met Tuesday night at the Delta Phi House, President Cote in the chair. Papers on \Carthage by Chap- man, '17, and \Luxury of the Roman Nobles,\ by Sternfeld, '16, were read and enjoyed by all present. The next meeting will take place March 3rd a.t the Kappa Alpha Lodge. The club plans to bring an outside speaker here in the near future. -Varsity debaters will :be given two hours of college credit hereafter at the Uni- versity of Rochester. -Out of 1,000 freshmen at the University of Pennsylvania, 18 are studying Greek. They are evidently training for college presi:. dents. ',, ' ' '·.

',, 16 THE CONCORDIENSJS T'HE CONCORDlENSIS .A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at ScheRectady, N. Y., as Seeond Class Matter .. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. Herman Hitchcock, 'r4, Delta Upsilon House. ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, Ra:ym.ond Van Santvoord, '14, Psi Upsilon House. ALUMNI EDITOR .Arthur D. Sherman, '14, North. Colonnade LITERARY EDITOR Thomas L. Ennis, 'I4; Alpha Delta Phi House. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. C. Baker, '15; D. A. CouJter, '15; H. N. Hubbs, '15; E. R. Huglles, '15. REPORTERS W. C. Louglin, '16; M. D. Ketchum, '16; R. E. Taylor, '16; L. R. VanWert, '16. Morris P. Schaffer, 'r4, Business Manager, 924 Delamont Ave. Karl E. Agan, '1 5, Ass'~· Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Publication Office: ScHENECTADY ART PRESS 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. (This Issue Edited by E. R. Hughes, '15) A junior was asked some time ago the following question : \Do you feel that so far in your college life all you have gained has been along scientific or technical lines?\ The answer came: \Well no; ~ 'm sure that that has not been all of it.\ '\Then what is it that you have gained?\ The answer ca. me again : \I don't know what to call it, but I am ·quite sure that there is a great deal more that I have gained.~' What ·had he gained? H.e could not describe it, but did seem to appreciate it. The thing that he did gain was a broader view of life. You cannot find it listed in the curriculum. You are not charged a: monetary fee for it. But every man wh() goes th1:ough Union College has the op- portunity to learn how to think big, be big, and to push big things. The junior had realized it. How many of us realize it? Whether we realize it or not, we still proEt by it. This brings an obligation upon all who may profit by participation in these things. Every mian is under moral obligation to re- spond to these enlarging influences. If you are not pushing, but would stand by and pick flaws, you are a parasite on the com- munity. In order that our university be worthy of its title, it must be composed o;f men who are doing, not for their own ag- grandizement, but for the best interests of all. To come hack home : \Charlie'' W aldro:n has for a long time worked hard and con- sistently for Union. His part has been, in general, to make the alumni feel an interest in our welfare as undergraduates. T'his is vitally important. What is a college with- out alumni who take an active interest in their undergraduates? In order to make the alumni feel a live interest in their Alma Mater, we must show a live interest in thetn. Let us get behind this thing and. make a big success of it. This is one way to show our appreciation of that \something\; but there are oppor- tunities every day for us to leave the num- bers of those who forget that those \VhQse actions they . would criticize are f_:illiE.g the places they themselves ought to be filling, to those who are working for the interest of their Alma Mater. l It i find i of tb reasc here1 tion near SO ill( . gne~ tere< fath~ . eastc hou~ as g . 10 a hou: astr 0 mat for of 1 pre: us i tim occ res~ . 1ng hin he mo wa all OV\ . tn we:

THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 RESPECTFULLY 'SUBMITTED. It is with a feeling of regret, too, tha,t we find it in1possible to engage the sage advice of the honorable gentleman who, for some reason unknown, gave vent to his inco- herent babble in last Monday evening's edi- tion of the Union-Star. The utterances, as near as vre can make them out, arise frorn some latent feeling of dissatisfaction or grievance which the writer must have fos- tered for some time. We would, in a fatherly way, remind the editor that it is far easier to find flaws in John Jones' new house than it would be to build a house half as good as it is. And if you yourself live in a hovel, don't find flaws in John J one:-;· house, because a cotnparison would be dis- astrous. Our usual magnanimity would tend to make us believe that the article was meant for humorous nonsense, but the fatal lack of humor in the article and the abundant presence of nonsensical satire therein forces us to take it as a sorehead slap against our time-honored customs, and as such we take occasion to condemn it as a direct rnisrep- resentation of facts, tinged with the knock- ing spirit of a pessimist trying to revenge himself for some supposed wrong which he imagines has been committed against his most estimable self. We have still a faint hope that the article was primarily meant in fun and would ask all who wish to attempt the running of our own business that they shall dictate to us . tn an open rather than in an underhand way. EXAMINATION SCHEDULE .. Monday, March 16. 9 A. M.-Senior Latin. 2 P. Differential Eq uatiorts. Economi•csb Junior Greek (B) History ( Sopho1nore Academic ; Junior B. E., op. B) Freshman Academic Interme- diate French. Freshman Acaden1ic Interme ... dia te 'German. Least Squares. Stereatomy. Sophomore B. E. Mechanics. Freshman B. E. English. M.-Senior Greek (B) Organic Chemistry. La bora tory Physics. Qualitative Analysis. Tuesday, March 17. 9 A. M.-History of Philosophy. English 6. Sophomore Academic Physics. Freshman B. S. Mathematics. Freshman Latin. Senior B. E. Design. Junior B. E. Mechanics. Sophomore B E. Calculus. Mensuration. Junior E. E. Hydraulics. 2 P. M.-Advanced Argumentation. Quantitative Analysis. Sophomore Intermediate Ger-- man. Biology (Medical} Wednesday, March 18. 9 A. M.-Comparative Politics. Mathematical Physics. English 5. Psychology . Sophomore Acadetnic matic\\. Mathe-

18 THR CON·CORDIENiSIS Freshman Academic EugHsh. Sanitary Biology. Junior B. E. Law. Kinematics. Sophomore B. E. Chemistry. Freshman B. E. Intern·ediate French. Freshman B E.. Elenlentary French. 2 P. M.-Greek (honors) Mathen1atics (Junior A. B.; Sophomore B. S.) English 4. Sophomore Latin. Freshman B. E. Drawiqg. Senior E. E. Laboratory. Thursday, M:arch 19. 9 A. M.-Advanced Ethics. General Chemistry. Argumentation. Sophomore Biology. Sophomore Greek (A. and B.) Motors. Junior B. E. Hydraulics. Sophomore B. E. Physics. Freshtnan B. E. Analytics. Seminar. Heat Engines. 2 P. M.-American History. Junior French. Freshman Greek. Friday, March 20. '9 A. M.-English 7. Sociology. Mathematics (Senior A. B. ; Junior B. S.) Junior Latin. Mineralogy. Sophomore Intermediate French. Hygiene. Water Supply. Finance. Thermodynamic~. Descriptive Geom-etry. Freshman Intern1ediate Germa11.,., Junior Electrical Engineering. 2 P. M.-History of Education. Sophomore Academic English. Senior E. E. Design. Junior E. E. Laboratory. Saturday, March 21 9 A. M.-.Senior Greek (A) Senior French. Junior German. Junior Greek (A) Elementary German. Freshman (A. B.; Ph. B.) Mathe~ rna tics. Building 'Construction. Sophomore B. E. English .. TRACK WORK. Now, since Junior Week is ancient his· tory and the basketball season is nearly fin~ ished, we should begin to think s eriouslJ of track: work. Last June we lost, by graduation, same very valuable track men, hence there are a great many vacancies to fill. Every man i-n college who can run, jump or throw the weights should come out. If you ltave had no experience in track athletics, but thinl< you can make good, come out. Do not get the idea that the men that filled certahn positions last year and made their letter have those positions cinched for this sea- son. The best man gets the position and there should be at least thirty or forty metn out from the freshman class for these posi· tions. The track squad meets Monday, W edne~­ day and Friday at 4 :30, in the gym. Dr .. \Mac\ can use every man who comes out. '16-Don't buy that pipe, you'll get stung~ '17-Why so? '16--\Cause there are three B's co it. THE • \G gam<: ''N reasc time~ inclil '~Y Spuc he s and said, time cline nigh ''\ Sl out \I . patr a cc at t that faul kno \C fell< to ~ ove . mtr r pta: ly 1 ers oth f me aba the

THE C·ONCORDIENSIS l9 THE JOY:S AND SORROWS OF THE SECTION GAN,G. (Spu.d practices the barber's trade.) \Goint to stay for the· dance after the game, Pete?'' ''No,. I guess not, Spud. T·bere are two reasons; in. the first place, I haven't the time, and in the second place, I haven't the . 1' . ,, tnc tnatton. '~You've got to go, Pete, I need you.\ Spud's fat cheeks wrinkled into a smile as he slowly thrust his hand into his pocket and drew forth two quarters. \Here he said, placing them on Pete's desk one at a time, \here's the time and here's the in- clination, will you join forces with me to- night?' ' ''Wh.a t' s the game ?\ Spud opened his desk drawer and took out a package. \Here's a pair of handcuffs, a gag, and a pair of clippers. You probably know that a couple of freshmen had a hatchet thrown at them th.e other day; well, I've been told that your uncle Spud is next and it's all the fault of that guy they call 'Fluff,' do you know him?\ \Oh I've seen him around.\ \Well he's got me talked up for the next fellow to have n1y hair cut and I'm going to get to him first. Are you with me?\ '(I'm on, Spud, but what's your plan?\ \That'll all work out in time. Let's walk over; the game begins in about twenty minutes.'' In this casual manner the Section Gang planned the fate of a sophomore and calm- ly too-k their places on the cheering bleech- ers to do their parts in the winning of an- other game. After the game they mingled with the merry-makers and danced with a vim until aboat r I o'clock. The hour of eleven found the tw() up in the gallery. \'H. e's out on the arched porch with a girl, Spud.\ ''Yes, I saw hitn. Now we'll have ta get somebody to ask the girl tor a dance a.nd we'H have him in an ideal place for the execution.\ ' - ere comes rank Ba:rclay; maybe !lle's \H· F going to take her in.\ \By George, he is!\ \Take this gag, Pete, and be ready to use it. Gee! but it's dark out he-re, go easy.\ The victim was leaning over the ban- nister, his hands crossed behind his back. It was but a second's work to slip the cuffs on. \I got him, Pete ; now ior the gag I Be qu;ick !\ Pete was quick, and not even a gurgle was heard as Spud laid his captive down none too gently on the cement floor. \Give me the clippers.\ \Make it a nice, bare streak, through the middle.\ \That's the very idea. Hold those hoofs tighter. Some kinks in th.:is wool.\ \Make every stroke good.\ \Just leave it to me; he won't be present- able without a hat. Now, that's fine~ let him up.\ As the prisoner arose a pi(!ce of gold tinkled on the floor. Spud pi:cked it up. As he felt it his jaw dro,l>ped and his b.and shook. \Leave him cuffed, Bete,\ he said in a husky voice. \Let's beat it qttick.\ Pete didn't understand, but he knew there \¥as sotnething wrong and obeyed. N ()t a word was spoken until the two were in the sections. \Pete we've got to prove an alibi.'\ '\What's the matter? You haven't turned yellow, have you; didn't you say you wanted to cut the guy's hair, and didn't you do it?\

20 THE C.QNCORDIENSIS '\Pete old man, we licked the sophomore class once and we've gDt ahead of the fac- ulty on several occasions, but we can't lick the whole college. And it's either that or an alibi now.'' \'Who's going to jump on us for cutting a csoph's' hair,?\ ''It wasn't a 'soph,' kid; take a look at this. He dropped it as you let him up.\ Spud handed over the piece of gold. It was a Terrace Council key. Pete turned it over and read the name .. \''Spud you cut 'Doc' Howell's hair.\ '\That ain't the question-how are we going to prove we didn't?\ The University of Michigan during the last twelve years has sent more men to the upper and lower houses of the national con- gress than any other college in the country. Harvard is second in this respect, Virginia third, and Yale fourth. Yale has the largest college library in America, containing 600,000 volumes. A grapefruit is a lemon that had a chance anc took advantage of it. LEADER AND OPERA STAR. \I saw a man,\ said Little Dick, Who'd heard a prim a donna sing, \Strike at a lady with a stick And make her scream like everything.\ COMMONS CLUB CONVENTION. Next Year's Conv~n:tion to be Held at Union. During the week of February 24th the cotrvention of the National Confederation of Commons Clubs was held at Syracuse University. The convention opened on Thursday evening \vith a banquet at the V\T alcott Hotel, and sessions were held until Saturday afternoon. Baldwin, '14, and Randles, '15., were the delegates from Union. Randles was elect- ed treasurer of the Federation for the com- . tng year. The 'Convention reported the admission of three new chapters for the past year-Con- necticut Agricultural College, Hobart Col- lege, and Massachusetts AgriculturaJ Col- lege. Also the petitions for admission of several western colleges were received. Union College was appointed as the place of convention for 1915. Y. M. C. A. NOTES. Henry S. Leiper of Amherst, '13, traveling secretary of the Student Volunteer Mov~­ ment, addressed Vespers last Sunday on the \Relation of the College Man to thoe Evangelization of the World.\ Dr. W. J. Swart was to have spoken, but vvas un- avoidably detained. He will address the Vespers next term. A committee has been organized in the freshmen class to help the association in its work among the college men. Nearly all of the Mission Classes have finished their courses. The next meeting will be a joint meeting of all the classes, when Dr. Ellery will finish course four by summing up the \Relation of Christianity to Non-Christian Religions.\ Most of the Bible Classes will close this week. There will be a meeting of the Industrial Class leaders on Monday a.fterrtO()rt,. March 9. A FISH STORY. Mead Brunet tells us of some of the favorite sports down in the baln1y State of Virginia. T·he ·most interesting of these pastimes in the Old Dominion is the catch- ing • scrib [n rnidd a ro1 do), an a1 nail hole lay 1 whi~ douf whe: afte1 . qutc tiou gigg T tian Tue p v T s 1 Art s his foll ( wh spe an< ( . tnc ' eta As tee wl (a

THE CO:NCORDIENSIS 21 ing of whif£1edoufs. The way Mead de~ scribes this is as follows: [n the stiU dawn you row out to tbe middle of a perfectly circular lake (either a round bottom or a flat bottom lake win do), taking with you a hammer, two nails, an auger, and a piece of cheese. First, you nail your boat to the lake; then you bore a hole in the water with your aager. You lay the cheese at the edge of the hole and whistle like a meadow lark. 'rbe whiffle- don£ hears the music and comes to the hole, where he smells the cheese and comes up after it. Then is the time for .exceedingly quick action on your part. ~on lean cau- tiously qver the side of you1 boat ~nd giggle him to death. Y. M. C. A. ELECTION. The officers of the Union College Chris~ tian Association for next year were electe-d Tuesday evening at Silliman Hall. President-. F. S. Randles, '15. Vice-President-R. Ainslee Orr, '16. Treasurer-R. S. Blodgett, '15. Secretary-D. F. Chapman, '17. The following proposed amendment to Article 6, Section 1, was adopted : Section 1 Upon entering the duties of his office the President shall , appoint the following committees: (1) A committee on Religious Meeting, which shall have charge of the regular anrl special devotional meetings, and deputations and conferences. (2) A committee on Christian Education, including Bible Study, Missi(}ll Study, So- cial Study, and recruiting men for our Association work, and for Student Volnn- teer Service. (3) A committee on S()cial Service, whose work naturally divides itself into: (a) Campus Service, including socials, work with new students, employment, etc., a.nd (b) Community Service, including individ-- ual work Sunday School work, etc. ( 4) A committee on Finance, including the departments of membership, account~, subscriptions, house property, etc. JUNIOR PR·OM. REPORT. Expense Account. Expenses- Loss on programs ............... $ 15.00 Catering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 170.30 Music . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95.00 Janitor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.00 Tickets printed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.75 Decorations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73.60 Paper and stamps . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 1.24 Men for working . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.7 5 Artist for drawing posters. . . . . . . 3.50 Four trips to Albany. . . . . . . . . . . . 2.00 'Phone four times to Albany. . . . . .60 Laundry and use of banner. . . . . . 3.10 Maid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.50 Men to help clean up. . . . . . . . . . . . 1.75 Women to wash gym floor. . . . . . . 2.00 Total ........................ $382.09 Total receipts from sale of tickets ( 125 at $3.50) .................. $437.50 Liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 382.09 $ 55.41 To Union College Gymnasium. . . . . 50.00 For reserve expenses ............... $ 5.41 Signed for Junior Prom. Committee, THOMAS A. DENT. Dutch Smith-Dr. Hoffman, what is the matter with this syllogism? \I'm not the head of an ass; I'm not the tail of an ass; therefore, I am no end of an ass.\ \Hoffy\ (taking a moment to look Dutch over)-1 can't see anything the matter with it.

22 Five years after ·graduation, the average RULES ALTERED LITTLE. salary of the members o.f the 1908 class of Slight Changes in Football Rules for 1914.- Massachusetts Institute of T·echnology was $2,007.86. The salaries ran all the way from At the second session of the yearly meei- $730 to $5,000. ing of the football rules committee no ra.d1·· TO THE COLLE:GE BROOK .. Oh, little college brook, I hear thy wood- land song, Amid the din and throng of this busy col- lege world; I seek thy native haunts, thy pretty shaderl banks I love, 'T'il:l often, little brook, it seems thou 'rt of that crystal stream a hove. Oh, little mountain brook, what Power gave life to thee, And sent thee flowing on to join the ocean blue? What monster shaped thy course? Who made for thee thy mossy bed, And placed upon thy foaming heart, like fairy ships, brown leaves and red? And, little forest nymph, who taught thee thus to sing, And with thy song to ring the echoes through the vale? Where hast thou learned to dance and sing and live thy days from care so free? If thou wouldst tell me all, dear little brook, well would I list to thee. How on, oh ! little brook, my life needs come and go, But thou forever so shall flow between thy wooded shores; Thy voice shall Union hear when mine long since has stilled its song, And when these rambling thoughts are not, thou still shall flow along. '16. cal changes were made in. the football co<le, but two or three important corrective meas- ures were adopted. 'T:hes e ,measures are as follows: 1. The head coach is eHminated from the sidelines. 2. After ~the teams have lined up th~ offensive team is not aHowed to make any shift into neutral territory. 3. Any free kick-off touching the goaJ posts and rebounding into the field shall \be counted as a touchback4 4. A kick-off after a touchback is elirn-· ina ted. 5. The teams are given the option .of choosing a fourth official to act as fielci' judge or assistant umpire. 6. Intentional grounding of a forward pass shall be penalized ten yards from the line of scrimmage. 7. When a player is out of bounds his team shall be penalized fi-ve yards for every- offense. Under the old rules the first out-of- bounds offense was not punishable. The proposition to place numbers on the bac;ks of the players was freely discussed, but no action was taken. A number of big teams w111 be numbered next season, and if the plan is found to give satisfaction, the rules committee will probably make this a com- pulsory part of the code. At the University of Illinois every clas~ has its distinctive headgear. ·-

THE CONCORDIENSIS Schenectady's (i rea test Drug Store Telephone anything to Quinn's. Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store, for anything you want. ,Call 1285. Free delivery by messengers. Cor. STATE & CENTRE STS. Steefel Bro& ALBANY Stee/el Quality Clothes Ready for Spring Aside from their striking style and their clean cut appearance it is the quality, the fabric and fit which have made Steefel Clothes the talk of talk of the town. Priced $10 to $45. You have a }()ok coming to you. Come in. Spring Hats, Gloves, Shoes at~d Furhishings also ready We have changed our Location STULL BROS., Tailors New Waiting Room Entrance Lafayette or State Streets A Good English Style EVERY SHOE A STANDARD SHOE Douglas $3 to $4- a pair. Heywoods $4 to IS.· Surefits $4- to $6. Stetsons $6 to $7. Hanans $6 to $8 Sixty styles for all occasions PATTON & HALL z4s STATE ST., SCHENECTADY PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRON1ZERS

THE CONCORDIENSIS BARNEY'S JJ'h,re RrJeryhod:1 Shops Students will find that they have every- thing at - - BARNEY'S H. S. BARNEY CO. SHOE SALE Men's Cros:sett $6.00 bench made waterproof Shoes- Sale price $4.95 Oth.e:r makes at reduced prices. EMERY'S Rindfleisch Parisian - Dye Works. · Yate's Boat House The Jargest and beat equipped in the state. Exct:llent Dandng Hall, which can be rented for Pri· ate Parties only, in connection with house • - • • - • 29 Front Street Both 1 Phones Fine Furniture at Popular Prices JOHN WAGNER CO. 260-262 State Street. We Announce the season's latest developments in refined apparel for the particu- lar man ......... . Clothing - - - Furnishings - - - Hats Wells & Coverly TROY Dane in; Waltz, Two-Step, Three-Step and Bluebell taught in one term. Modern Dancing The new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, Hesitation Waltz and the One Step taught in three lessons. All lessons guaranteed. Frank M. Cain Master of Dancing 429 Sta.te St. Schenectady v. E. Wbeldea, Maaac• Arcade Hal~ Near N. Y. C. Depot ?~one 2JZ3-J SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORD!\ .. Ro '1' th

THE CONCORDIENS,IS N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAP:HER Room 74 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Makers of Caps, Gowns and Hoods 1878 E. C. HARTLEY 1914 Dealer im Fine Groceries and Provisions Special Prices made for goods in quantities to, College Fraternity Houses. 60l-603 UNION STREET TELEPHONE i. 31. Wijearlt D.ELICATESSEN \Joe\ caters to the student. Break- fast between classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Back .of St. John's Church To the American Colleges and Uni,versities from 'P 298 W the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty . HONE • 722 EASTERN AVE. Vacuum Cleaners Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand Clark Witbeck Co. The Big Hardware Store Ftllows come down and get acquainted with NICKLAS Phone 2322- W. 169 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk hats, Best Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men \ Higgins' ( Drawing Inks I . Eternal Writing Ink Engrossing Ink I Taurine Mucilage i Photo Mounter Paste ·j Drawin~ Board Paste · Liquid Paste ll Office Paste Vegetable Gluea, etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. v'istbn~ Car-ds Wedd1nt Stahonery ~us1ne s Cards-LetterHeads Class Pins -Mono(rams Crest-s. Coats of Ar~s etc . .Df.SIGNEf\S .( N GR_AVE.J\S P~INTEf\S EMBOSSI:\-S PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

'THE CONCORDIENS.fS SAUER BROTHERS Successors to Schen.ectady Book Bindery and Printing Company Printing, Binding, Makers of High Class Stationery, Loose Leaf D:evices and Index Systems. Special Ruied Blank Books Made to Order. 316 State Street-Phone 2799-W. Special Rates to~ '~.tudents HOTEL AND RESTAURANT LENS GRINDlNG A SPECIAL'Jl' 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST Broadway and Maiden Lane ~~~any, N. Y. 426 State Street Eyes Tested and Glasse:s Fitted GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms J Wm. H. K~eler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street LYON 'S· The Store With Over Ioo,ooo Prescriptions. Sole Agents for Huyler's Bon Dons and Chocolates Kodaks, Pren1os and All Photo Supplies LYONS, Cor. State and Centre St. C. A. Whelan & :Co. TOBACCO Jrnf. 31. 3.1. il(tlgallrtt For further information see hand b01ok page 52. JOHN B. HAGADOR~N Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Class Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phomr2:10U-W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great dif- ference between common flowers and the flco\liVers we grow at our own greenhouses right here in 5dl:enec· tady by patronizing W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Albany Street Phone 3628-L Greenhouse 1408State St. Phone 1543~J lluinu N atinual iauk ~tlTrttrttaby. N. 1. Safe Deposit Boxes for Rent SAY YOU ,SAW IT IN 'rHE \ CONCORDY,.

THE CONCORDIENSIS 949 .. Dime Me;ssenger ,Servic,e .. 949 Messengers furnished for Delivery of Parcels, Notes, Invitations, Circulars and Errands 438 STATE STREET, opposite Jay St. TELEPH'ONE 949 THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel of. Albany, N. Y. Fireproof Orchestral Concerts during dinner and after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to 6 o'clock Also THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, 'N .. Y. FIRE ROOF Both hotels conducted on European Plan Under direction of FRED'K W. ROCKWELL A. R. Zita's Orchestra FURNITURE AMERICAN PLAN All Outside Rooms. EDWIN CLUTE, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. furnished rr!usic at Union College 1905 'o6, 'o7, 'o8, '09, '10, ·11, '12 and 1913 Best Dance Music in the World H. R. PHONE Main 3483-W Only the Best Service. None Better for Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., Albany TAXI SERVICE Quick, Dependable Day and Night Service. The quickest and most comfortable way to get to and from social and business en- gagements. Touring Cars for parties and out-of-town calls. PHONE 991 Day or Night. Any time. Shannon & Son · r 18 1-2 North Ferry St. The Sterling Art Shop A place for gift giving purchases. Interior Decorating. WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady 20th Century Lunch WE SERVE THE BEST HOME-MADE PASTRY IN THE CITY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office\ PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PA.TRONIZERS l \ ~ \' 1 I •, t.

THE CONCORDIENSTS Warmth without weight outer coats. Now is the ti,me fellows $2'5,.00 to $75.00 J. J. HILLMAN The Gleason Book Co. 104 JAY STREET, Gleason Building •·on your way to the Post Office\ SCHENECTADY'S LEADING FLOWER SHOP ''THE STUDENTS' FLORTST'' JULIUS EGER Telephone 3140 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street 617 State Street The Students' P:roblem Solved You can get the extra half hour sleep every m:orn· ing and still be on time for chapel. The solution of this problem is an ELECTRIC TOASTER and an ELEC~­ TRIC COFFEE PER .. COLA TOR. Then, simply turn the switch and your breakfast is ready by the time you are dressed. Schenectady Illuminating Co. 511 State Street Telephone 2500 UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc. Largest dealers in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady. OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED TELEPHONE SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CON CORDY \ Hatt 8' tl - \(

THE CONCORDIENS)IS CHAS. H. TURNER Sporting Goo·d.s Albany, N.Y. MOE DEWILDE~ Hatter and Furnisher. Trunks and Leather Coods 54 State St., Albany, N. Y. William J. Reinhart McClure & Cowles Designer and Maker of MEN'S CLOTHES Pianos and Player Pianos. Victor Talking Machines and Records. Five exclu· sive Victor Parlors. Easy Payments. 8 James Street, Albany, N. Y. 64 No. Pearl St., A lhany, N. Y. Albany's Progressive Drug Store \Root for Jack\ Morris Drug Co. FISHER'S 26-28 No. Pearl St. AlbanJ 2nd SHIRTS 50c Agency for Whitman's 112 No. Pearl St. \Our Business is Growing\ DANKER Reliable Corsage Bouquets of ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS Albany 40 and 42 Maiden Lane A/han,, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS ; t <: : l : ~ :I .. I •' . . ! ! I l I . I ' -: \ I I I ; l I I i I I ' ' I • I , l i . I ' ' • I : ~ j ~ I ' I l , • I : 1: I

THE CONCORDIENS.JS PARSONS' ORCHESTRA M.usic Furnished for .al:J Occasions 'Telephone 2131-J 310 State Street, Schenectady The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET I .Engleman & Bellinger PA·INTS, OILS A complete ·d·epartment food store The best i·n everything for tile table at :the lowest cash prices Quick - Active - Service The Schenectady Clothing Company Stein Biloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros.' Sweaters Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 200 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishes 212 So. Cent·re St. A 66 SQUARE DEAL\ for everybody is the \Spaulding Policy.\ We · g:uar~ntee each buyer of an article bearing. the Spaulding Trade-Mark that such article wiU give satisiaction and a reasonable amount of service. : A G Spaulding & Bros . 126-128 Nassau'Street • • • 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalogue VanVoast & Leonard GENERAL INSURANCE 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL SHOES The Best Made Shoes ·in the World They wear longer-they cost less. END,ICOTT- JOHNSON and COMPA,NY 206 So. Centre Street. Near State SAY YOU SAW IT IN THEl ••coNCORDY\ A 1 l E I_

~ JUT\PJt 'k . -p···· THE CONCOR.DIENSlS W~t liumvtnu Albauu. THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF ·MEN'S ROSERY, IN THE CITY AU styles and materials-Cotton, M10rcerized, Merino and Silk~ Also a fine line of Pajamas and Night Shirts. Our prices are right-one good5 are right-and our right method of doing business has brought .us an ever increasing number of satisfied customers, If you are not already acquainted with us and our goods, please consider this a personal invi· tation to call and be convinced of our sincerity and desire to please~ . ..... - == - United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street· · Albany, N.y .. 467 State Stre.et Schenectady, N. Y .. ESTABLISHED 1850 ~nus JEWELERS & SILVERSMITHS ' .. . . . < EVERYTHING IN CUPS AND MEDALS ALBANYt N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAP'ER'S PATRONlZERS I I t ., '· ' . '·., I \,..\· I , 1 :· I \ ,, I , :-, : ·-' I . i I i l I I I I I : ! ' ' ; ' I : ; ' ' ; I I i ~ ' ; I ; ' . ' i ' I I .' '

Good Clothes SAY MEN: ~ e sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothest and you know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells the right kind, and naturally must sell the right kind of ·- . . . . . - . . - . - . -- . ··- .. -. - . -· .. -· ~-·- ·- ___ ; - - . ' . . . -. -. . ?ther things to wear too. If you look us over a little ~e think you'll like us and our way of doing busiress .. The College Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenectady ..;;~ Art Press

THE PV8LISHED·WEEKLY , . : BY--THE STVDENTS· OF· VNJ.OW· COLLEGE, . . Our Republic shalf endure so long as the h1;1man harvest is good, so long as the move~ ment of history, the progress of science and industry, leaves for the future the best and not the worst of each generation. -David Starr Jordan. .. \fi VOL XXXVII MARCH 12, 1914 No. 18 '~ ijj ............ _rs-\''§~'l@:UUft=£liJ §@ frt@flli~JU@::!§illJ ri~:¥J r~__rr@ m~ t=-·-- ~ L..-J \! ' I~ l' li I' ' , I I I . 1

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALJEXANDER RICHMOND, D. De, LL .. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Courses lending to the degree of A. B. • CLASSICAL CouRsE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophmore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. · .2. Course leading to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leafHn.r: to tlte degree ot B. S. SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course lending to the degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the ')ciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING COURSE-This differs fron1 the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. EI.ECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRsE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Courses lending to graduate degree•. CouRSI<: l..EADING TO D~GREE OF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists ot lectures, laboratory practice and research work. JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone 2845 for free sample of our speC'ial Coffee at 25c or Teas at 30c , COURSE LEADING TO DEGREE 01'' M. s . E 8 E.~ Thi Si course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and rese~rch work. COURSE LEADING TO DEGREE OF PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis~ sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac· tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellenL Catalogues and circulars containing full info:rma- uon sent on application to: vVILLIS G. TUCKER., M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKER, J, NEWTON FIERO., President. Dean. ALBANY LAW ScHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a bui 1 ding wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $1o; tuition fee, $110. For catalogue or other in formation, address: JoHN C. WATSON 1 Reg1strar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalocrue g-iving full information, address. ALFRED B. HUESTED, Secretary 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. uEverything for the Colle~e Man -e\cept Examat~o GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Hall Phone 1896. W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from t.he Green Gate SAY YOU SA '\i\. IT IN THFJ \CONCOR OY ..

THE CONCORDIENSIS In the\Wee Sma' Hours'' When you·re \cramming\ for an exam- When you're \boning\ for • a QUIZ- When your making up that \ d. . '' con 1tton - Or when you're wrestling with the intracies of \Analyt''- After the steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly- THEN you'll appreciate the cheery and c h e e r i n g warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you'll buy one. For sale by the Schenectady Illuminating Co. Made by General Electric Company Schenectady, - New York Your Instructors will help you solve your Mathematical or Philosophical Proble~ns But our store will help solve your Clothes Problem a ; - Spring Clothing $10 $12.50 $15 DIRECT FROM THE FACTORY ........ M ' Clothes Sho~ 310 STATE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S P.ATRONIZERS

THE C·ONCORDIENSIS Home-made Candies and C. & F. Salted Nuts :Sa..ndwiches uasurpassed 'The Sign of the Golden .Robin TEA ROOM SPECIALISTS 31 Steuben Street, E. H. SOUDER Jeweler and Optician 99 North Pearl Street ALBANY Special work in class pins, badges and medals. Students suffering from eye~strain and headaches should consult. GUS HERMANSEN, Optometrist 109 No. :Pear 1 Street MADE TO ORDER $20.o·o to $40.00 --AT-- S E . M .. ·1~1 ' • . : · • · · J> er ·s 34 an<l: 36 MAIDEN LANE ALBANY., N. Y. THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany GRANGE SARD, • • • President T. I. Van ANTWERP. • Vice-Pre~ident MAC NAUGHTON MILLER, Sec'y.-Treas. ARTHUR L. ANDREWS, · Gem<!ral Counsel Main office, 4 7 State St. Park Branch, 200 W a~·Lington • Jlai!tt 1£uurQ Steuben St., Albany, N. Y. K. H. Solaghian Photographs \Wilile Yo:u 'Nait\ Fellows: Dr0, p in for an intormal phcto - youtll appreciate it later. . . . MERCURY PH~OTO STUDIO 107 No. Pearl St. Albany.; N. Y. ALBANY ART UNION Photographs---Artistic 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N. Y. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CON CORDY •• .t 1

THE CONCORDIENSIS Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Auto.mobile Suppliies 524 Union St., corne·r Barret A·gency fnr Pope and Eagle Motorcycles :Get Tomorrow's Style To-day in a Regal Shoe The styles jn Regal Shoes to .. day are those you · will see tn-morrow in other Shoes. M. STARKMAN Authorized Agent 451 State St. Schet1ectady PRINTING THAT IS RIGHT, REASONABLE AND ON TIME 8Jr~tnecta~y i\rt Jlrraa J. 'H, COMO, Prop. 20& So. ·Centre St., Near State Phone 1823 .J TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit you-r trade. \THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry. 448 STATE STREET Telephone Schenectady ROSES, ORCHIDS AND VIOLETS 11 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 The Newland- Von R·itter Company PRINTERS & BINDERS 0 f hig-h-class Publications,Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing·, Law, Library, Magazine and all kinds of Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and Special Ruling. The only Job Printing Plaa.t in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BR!OS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH AVENUE New York City GERBER- ''45 SecrJnds From The Blue Gate\= ··GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Ering it here and it will be done right. Work called for and delivered. 146 NOTT TER~ACE TELEPHONE 4258·W PATRON[ZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

,. II THE ·CONCORDIEN.SIS ''The House of Fine Clothes'' F. W. Mullin J. F. Leonard A. R. Mullin PROPRIETORS BABBITT'S (t)auit& o.tnmpauy Preliminary Di,splay of Spring 1914 Clothes · Now Ready Mill- ESTABLISHED 1840 ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS ..... Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper : Cl~othes which disting!pish th~is store from all the rest for 100 miles around 52 NORTfl PEARL STREET Makes beginning with ROGERS·· PEET and ending with the ''Frankel Fifteen'' which we alone can furnish in this Capitol City Terri~tory $12.50 to $45 BALMACAAN & GLENGARRY COATS FOR COLLEGE MEN ls the spotlight attraction here to-day. The new models now highest in favor, aU cravanetted for rain or sunshine wear. $13.50 . to $35 Babbitt ,& Co. 451-453 Broadway ''A lhany 's Greatest Clothiers'' Albany, N. Y. When you Break your glasses send them here. We will repair them promptly. No waiting 3 or 4 days Meyrowitz Bros. 68 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. SAY YOU S.A.W IT IN THE \CONCOR.DY '' ·I ' { ' '

i 'l ) ·I ' { ' ' THE CON·CORDIEN~SIS Visit Our Victor Parlor We Solicit Your Patronage You Need Our Guarantee . STEINWAY WEBER ~ Cluett & Sons AND ONE PRICE PIANO HOUSE PIANOLA. SQS STATE ST., SCHENECTA.DY, N. Y P-IANOS Are You Progressing? ''If It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' Are you in need of shoe repairing? If so, don't forget us, as we don't forget you. Call at our &hop, 438 State Street, opposite Jay St., and let us exercise our brotherly love. We will be at the same location until our Barrett Street Headquarters are rebuilt, as they have been destroyed by fire. li1 Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goo·ds Auto Tires J!] Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works Alling Rubber Co. 438 State Street Opposite Jay Street · F 0 d S · T 1 h 3 456 229 State Street 26 Stores ree r er erv1ce e ep one H 0 L T Z M A N 'S LATEST STYLESa••MEN'S ESTABLISHED 1871 We have Clothed the Sons of \OLD UNION\ for the past . 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADLER-ROCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES lil French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leathers HOLTZMAN'S LINDSAY BROS. CO. Schenectady's Larg1st Clothiers COR. STATE AND WALL STS .. PATRONIZE TOUR PAPER'S PATRONTZmRS

DRAWING SUPPLIES --- BEST QUALITY--- LO·W PRICES Drawing Instruments, Drawing Boards, Tee Squars, Angles, Drawi::n~: :Paper, Drawing Pens, Art Gum and Ink. EVERYTHING FOR THE STUDENT ALBANY HARDWARE & IRO:N; CO. 39 an.d 4-3 State .Street ELECTRIC QUICK SHOE REPAIR S~HOP S. SO BELL,. Manager I am your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 LlBERJ'T STREET THE UNION of a Sophmore or Freshman with a few dollars wbich will stay ey him nntil he is a ~ertior. c~n be effected by .an occasional deposit in The Schenecta~y Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON \The College Photographer\ :!o~RN~~ 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street ~~~ ~~~~ D. ·B. pAIGE, Si~ma Phi House NEAR BARNEY\$ 11909087 1199113 College Repreaentative 1 • I am· prepared to supply your wants for the coming social func- · • t1ons. There's Shirts, Ties, Collars, , Gloves, Scarfs, Studs, Silk and . Opera Hats. ''Tango Shirts'' $2.00 and $3.00. : Joe Nusbaum, 336 State St. Gazette Building . S.AY YOU S.AW IT IN THE \'CONCORDY'\

The Concordiensis VOL. 37 MARCH 12, 1914 NO. 18 UNION NOSES OUT A VICTORY. Game Full of Remarkable Air-tight Guard- ing Taken by the Garnet on Fouls. Both Teams Played a Fine Game, But Union Lacked Her Usual Form. In a game noteworthy for remarkable guarding on both sides, Union nosed out a victory by one point over Williams Sa tur- day night in the gym. So close was the contest and so hard fought on both sides that the victory was not assured till the last whistle blew, two minutes after Hough- ton had dropped Union's eleventh foul goal into the basket. Throughout the game Union was hindered from scoring a single field goal by the tight, impassable guarding of the Purple quintet, which guarding, how- ever, was responsible for Union's victory, since it often verged to fouling. Captain Hodge of W illiatns scored two field goals and Deely one, but only four fouls were successfully caged. The game was watched by the largest crowd as yet assembled in the new gymna- sium, among them a delegation of Wil- liamstown rooters, whose cheering and en- thusiasm were features of the contest. At the very start the game developed into a bitter, tight battle, and for eight minutes no points were scored. At the end of that time Thorpe called a foul on Williams, and several followed in quick succession, four of which \Teedy\ Woods caged. Two baskets by the Purple and several fouls on each side kept interest at fever heat, and the half ended with the score 6 to 5 in favor of Williams. The second half was like the first. The Beavers and Haubner couldn't get loose, and Williams killed all its chances by foul- ing. Several times this propensity for rough work spoiled Union's chances too· ' ' apparently Williams was not used to play- ing a strict interpretation of the rules. Early in the second half Houghton drop- ped three baskets from the foul line.. At this stage of the game the lead seemed overwhelming, but interest was intensified when two fouls were called on the Garnet ' for both of which Captain Hodge of Wil- liams tallied one point. This put the game once more in the hands of fate and the keen- sightedness of the referee. Shortly after- wards \Erny\ Houghton scored a foul goal, and two minutes later time was called. The game was too close for comfort and the pandemonium which followed the whistle showed the real relief in loyal Union hearts that another leg on the cup race was over and won. The wearers of the Garnet had little chance to star. When they were not boxed

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS up tight, they were busy boxing up someone else. T~he passwork, ordinarily a feature of Union's game, was lacking to a great meas .. ure. Apparently it was an off night. How- ever, \Jake\ and '''Dave\ Beaver, \Teedy\ Woods, Houghton and Haubner all deserve credit for breaking lose even as much as they did against Willian1s' air-tight d~­ fense. ·Captain Hodge and Deely stared for the Purple. The score: Union (11) F'b. Fp. Tp. ]. Beaver, rf. . ............... 0 0 0 Haubner, 1£. . ..........•..... 0 0 0 Woods, c .................... 0 4 4 Houghton, rg. . ................ 0 7 7 D. Beaver, lg. . .............. 0 0 0 Totals .................... 0 11 11 Williams (10) Fb. Fp. Tp. Hodge, r£. ..... , ........... . 2 4 8 Toolan, If. . ................. 0 0 0 Langford, If. . ... , ........... 0 0 0 Saifield, c. . ................. 0 0 0 Deely, 'rg. . ................. 1 0 2 Day, lg ...................... 0 0 0 Totals .................... 3 4 10 Summary : Score at half time-Union, 5 ; Williams, 6. Referee-Thorpe. Umpire-· Leon. Timekeepers-· Baker, Lincoln. Time of halves-Twenty minutes. Attendance~ 2,500. HEAR AL1\1:A GLUCK! On March 27 the last of the college musi- cales will take place in the new gymnasium. This concert will be given by Altna Gluck, a concert singer who needs no introduction at Union, for does she not call this \her cGllege~'? Since her rendition o£ John Howard Payne's \Home Sweet Home\ at the dedication of the Payne Memorial Gate in 1911, the m~usical enthusiasts of both Union and :Schenectady have been anxious to have her visit the city agaia. This year the college musical course C()mmittee has been successful in booking her for the last of the trio of concerts-and a titting climax it will be! It is rumored that extensiv-e plans are under way :for this concert. The gymnasium will :be used as the auditorium, and an effort will be made to fill the place. Union stu- dents will be interested in th~e announce-~ ment that the first two concerts have brought in enough money to pay for the entire course, and hence the proceeds from the Gluck concert wiH undou1Jtedly be ad- ded to the fund for new appa~ratus for the gymnasium. In this effort to fill the gym-· nasiun1 on the night of March. 27 the un- dergraduates may be asked to :help in many ways-first, by their own attendance, and, too, by helping in the sale of tickets. Fel~ lows, the more we co-operate with the com- mittee in this plan, the greate.r will be the profits. Seventy of the students already have tickets for the concert, but it will take four times seventy of the undergraduates to obtain the greatest success in our end of the effort. Thus, on March 27, let us-=.. three hundred strong-give Atma Gluck a genuine Union welcome back to \her col~ lege\! SOPHOMORE SOIREE REPORT. Expenses- Two trips to Albany ........... $ W •t• n tng paper ................ . Starn ps ........................ . Programs and C. 0. D. charg-e ... . Telegram to Alaba.ma ......... . Decorations .................. . Music .... ~ ...............•... Maid ........................ . Catering ...................... . Lights ........................ . 100 25 18 82 20 1 20 26 JO so 00 2 00 73 50 1 20 R F s ( ,, ., i ) i j 1 . i . ' •· f l ' .i '!;{ ··.'J ' :,- i' ' l . i 1 . ' 'l l ! I .f I -~ .J ·<£ .... 1 ··~ .~ l '.i ~l J ·e { ·~ I ! l l l i

THE CONCORDIEN·SIS 11 Carfare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . SO· Printing of tickets . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 3 75 Interest and discount on note. . . . 2 00 Janitor . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 3 00 Hauling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 00 Artist for drawing posters. . . . . . . 2 50 Scrub bing floors .......... o • • • • 2 00 Receipts from sale of tickets (71 at $2.50 ..... 0 ••••••••••••••••• $177 50 From programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91 25 $268 75 253 58 Balance ....................... $ 15 17 Signed for Sophomore Soiree 'Committee, MEADE C. BRUNET. DELCHAMPS NEW EDITOR. Chosen to Head the Concordiensis Board for the Coming Year. At a meeting of the Publication Board held Monday afternoon in Wash burn Hall, Harold J. Delchamps, '15, of Mobile, Ala., was elected editor-in-chief of the Concord- iensis for the year 1914-15. Delchan1ps has been a member of the editorial board for a comparatively short time, but during that time he has shown such ability and initia- tive that he was elected to the guiding posi- tion on the staff. He has a decided genius in writing stories and articles in such an attractive manner that they \take and his editorial ability is of the highest quality. The future of the Concordiensis is safe in his hands. Delchamps is a member of Chi Psi. The new assistant editor, Donald A. Coulter, '15, has been doing accurate work during the year and has contributed much to its literary side. He is an earnest work- er and should make an able assistant to the editor. Edward R. Hughes, '15, was chosen lite- rary editor for the coming year. He has evinced a keen interest in the paper and now will have a large field for activity. The literary department should be well support- ed and popular. The awakened interest among the student-body should yield a har- vest of literary efforts and the literary editor can do much to rouse this interest. Hughes is a member of the Pyramid Club. Walter C. Baker, '15, was given the posi- tion of athletic editor. Here he will have a chance to do some active work for the paper, as this is an important part of the college news. Since the Alumni Monthly so thoroughly covers the field of alumni doings, it was thought advisable to do away with the alumni departm.ent. W n1. C. Loughlin, '16; R. E. Taylor, '16, and L. R. Van Wert, '16, were promoted to the position of associate editors. N. A. Finch, '16, and A. M. Jacobs, '16, were also elected to that position, having shown their ability in a competition conducted during the year. From the fifteen freshmen competing for positions as reporters on the Board, seven were elected. These were: M. W. Atwood, '17; J. C. Buchanan, ;17; R. F. Brundage, '17; D. F. Chapman, '17; W. M. Gilbert, '17; H. R. Knight, '17, and F. W. Porter, '17. The competition for all the positions was very keen and the men did good work Not all the candidates could be elected, and it was necessary to both chose from the com- petitors and to drop men already on the staff. Not that those men dropped did no work, hut that only the very best workers were selected. The new board is a well- balanced one and should accomplish further improvements in the Concordiensis during its term of office. SIXTH PSYCHOLOGY LECTURE. In his Friday evening lecture, Dr. Dewey showed how primarily the savage is the

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS .. real lover of luxuries, while the civilized man strives particularly after the neecssi- ties of life. Except for hunting and fish- ing, the devices of the civilized man are put to mechanical rather than human uses. They are a tneans to an end and not an end in themselves, with the result that labor is not pursued in its own interest. Men are fundamentally hu1nan beings and are, there- fore, not interested in mechanical things, unless ·external pressure is brought to bear to compel them to be. In primitive societies these external forces were the needs of food, shelter, etc. The occupations of sav- ages are ,mainly emotional, as fishing, hunt- ing, dancing and story-telling. The craft of the savage which made use- ful things also made them beautiful. In the stone age there was great perfection of form in the tools and weapons made. T·he reason for this was that there was plenty of leisure and few wants. They themselves used the t~ings they made and did not make them for market. Their economic activities were closely associated with their religious ceremonies. Here Dr. Dewey gave an example of a young Indian man in Mexico who was re- buked by his elders for not working. The fact was that he did not dance and they thought there was danger that the affairs of the tribe would not go well. It is only since we have become civilized that we have taken so much interest in material things. Dancing is not a form of recreation, but a most serious business among savages. It is a significant fact that their dances, songs and panto1nimes reflect their economic life of hunting, gathering crops, etc. By these songs they think cer- tain values is gained in helping them out of their troubles and ensuing success. The speaker continued by showing how the fine arts have grown out of these rites. The Romans were a practical people, and in contrast to the Athenians. The religious ceremonies of the former definitely reflected their occupa tionso Their ce1·emonies w·ere put in charge of a particular class and the people as a whole got rid of the emotional part of r·eligion by making it an offic.ial job. While Athenian religious rites, like the Ro- man, were developed from savage cete~ monies, the former was developed a~Iong more idealistic lines and out· of the old religious ,ceremonies participated in by the whole people the Greek tragedy was de-· veloped and performed by a few, while the majority of the people became spectators. · Dr. Dewey then explained that man does not think for the sake of thinking, but m·ere- ly as a response to critical situations. :The natural man rushes forward to a conclusion rather than to keep a situation open; he has settled his own attitude and thinks he has closed the situation. We still retain the intellectual instinct of savages to conclude a question as quickly as possible. This at- titude is found in science itself, with the exception that science has a lot of tools by which it tends to prevent rash conclusions. These protective devices have made the process of inquiry agreeable. It is a sort of drama of discovery. Thinking gives a form of thrills and excitement, correspond- ing to the thrills of the hunt, tho' it is a different kind of hunt. We have learned to follow inductive rather than deductiv~ reason, hut we are not a bit more logical than the savage. This has been caused largely by an alli- ance of the n1ethods of useful arts and ab- stract science which were previously sepa- rated. Intelligence has developed the ttse of tools which brought about the control of nature. In the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries it was found that tools used in the industrial arts could be used for the fine arts. The lens, for example, with the utili- tarian purpose of spectacles was used, and . \ I l . I I .. ·.I i . • i 'f i :, ~ ' . . ·· l j '! . ·! •• . 'l ,:~

. \ I l . I I .. ·.I i • • i i ! l ! :, ~ . . .·· l j '! ! :J ! •• . l :7 -l ···;.; THE CONCORD'IENSIS 13 rhe telescope was invented by which the art of astronomy was developed. In short, it is impossible to draw any analogy between present social conditions and those of by-gone ages. Our way of looking at nature is relatively new, having developed within the last three centuries. THE BASKETBALL DINNER. The basketball dinner, originally planned for March 30th, has been changed to the 25th. Commencing at 6:30 P. M., an inter- class swim1ning contest will be held, the first in the new pooL The ''eats\ will be served shortly after the finish of the race, and the committee promises that this \eat event\ will be even more interesting than the first number on the program. No en- trance fee will be charged to the acquatic struggle, but the fee to the second \heat\ will be eighty-five cents. Take your choice, gentlemen ! Choose both if you like! Swim to eat, or get in the swim and eat. Y. M. C. A. NOTES. Rev. Mr. 0. R. Miller of Albany addres- sed last Sunday's Vespers His talk was the \Reform Movement and It's Workings at Albany.\ He pointed out how the re- form people worked to obtain the passage of good laws and how they fought the bad laws. The last Vespers of this term will be held Sunday, and the Association urges every student, who is able, to be present. Rev. George Dugan of Albany will speak on ''Your Ideal.\ The \Pie Social\ on Monday night after the debate was quite a success. and the Association wishes to thank the student- body for its cooperation. 1\'he different groups of Mission Classes met together last Tuesday evening. Dr. EUery spoke to the classes on the ''Rela- tion of Christianity to Other Religions.\ All of the fellows who are looking for- ward to a good vacation or would like to learn of a good place to spend June 19th to 25th, see Male, '13; Ennis, '14; Hitchcock, '14, or Storey, '14, about that Northfield Conference. \PREXY TO GO SOUT'H. On March 28th, President Richmond will leave for a short southern trip, visiting in Georgia, and stopping on the 13th at Washington to speak before a meeting of Union alumni. On April 14th he will ad- dress the Board of Trade of Ilion, N. Y. DR. MARCH DISCUSSES KIPLING. Dr. M~rch readl a :paper at the joint public meeting of the Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi societies Tuesday evening at Silliman Hall. Professor March's subject was \Rudyard Kipling,\ and he brought out in his paper many interesting points from the works of one of the most famous of modern writers. He pointed out that while Kipling was no great poet, he was a ·master of the short-story; that although he will probably never be regarded as a great writer, still he is one of the most popular. Dr. Mar.ch characterized Kipling as a \born story-teller,\ \a master of mimicracy and t 1 \ d th f '' . . 1 scene por raya , an. au . or o or1g1na and vivid .. imagination,\ and a \contributor of new words of the English language.'' \Kipling thought of life as activity,\ said Professor March, \and he has a belief that n'1 an is here not to think, but to act ; hence ;his characters are active.\ Dr. March showed by quoting from Kip- ling's works the many literary character- istics of the man and his writings and how these had been blended to make Kipling the g-reat master of the short story.

14 THE C:ONCORDIENSIS EXCELLENT INNOVATION. Union has an admirable body of basket- ball enthusiasts. Right behind the team . they have stood from the very start, and now, as the season draws to a close, they still Pvince the same insatiable ambition for the success of their team. This spirit is, indeed, highly comtnendable, and in the division of honors the student-body should by no means be overlooked, for it has played no small part in ·making the season a suc- cess. From another view, our basketball \fans\ possess a quality not quite so commendable. Nam,ely, the rapidity with which they for- get about the team and its efforts, once the season is over. This is not peculiar mere- ly to basketball, but appertains to all of our athletic endeavors. It is most evident at this period, however. As soon as the championship has been decided the men at once forget all the things that were so vitally interesting during the season. In cases, where the team has been a victorious one, there is a tendency to- ward a more lasting interest, but ordinarily we let our memories slip altogether too soon. Not only do we forget the past season, but for a time there is a surprisingly low ebb in the athletic interests of our college. In a vague sort of a way the students look forward to the coming baseball season, but -the spirit is not what it should be. To have successful teams at Union vve must exhibit a continuous, never-failing interest in their welfare, and it is fa~ from difficult to main- tain such a feeling. All that is necessary is a little incentive between seasons. The Basketball Dinner, to be given under the auspices of the Press Club at the new gymnasium, is exactly the thing needed. A most opportune gathering it will be ! All the \fans\ will be there, and an exceptional- ly interesting program has been arranged for their entertainment. The members of the team, the captain, the coach and many of our \notables\ will be on hand to ad- dress the assemblage. Basketball, basepall and sports in general will be the chief. top- ics of discussion. Athletic interests will be roused to a high pitch, and the affair ·v\\111 take on the character of a student reunion. On reflection, 'JVe ca1;1 readily realize what an excellent innovation this will be. A spirited gathering of this sort will surely tide over the interest in the interim be- tween the conclusion of the basketball schedule and the advent of baseball. It will jn1press the basketball team, whethe, .. victorious or otherwise, with the fact that ti1e ~tudents fully appreciate its efforts, and again, it will assure the baseball men that the \fans\ are likewise ready to back them to the limit. From every angle it seems that the din- ner will set a fine precedent, and it is sim~ ply up to the student-body to make it the splendid success it ought to be. COLGATE YIELDS TO UNION. The Maroon Goes Down to Defeat, But Plays a Fast, Lively Game, Full of Bril- liant Passwork. Union Will Play Off Tie With W·esleyan on Saturday. Colgate went down to defeat in the new gym Tuesday night by a score of 28 to 18, which victory for Union ties her with Wes- leyan for first place in the standing of the Northeastern Intercollegiate Basketball League. Thus victory was doubly gratify- ing to the college. The game began before a large crowd of rooters, with both teatns apparently in fine condition. \Joe\ Haubner and \Jake\ Beaver held down the for,;vard positions, \Dave\ Beaver and Houghton the guards. and \Teedy\ Woods center for Union. The contest started off with a rush and for sev- eral moments no baskets were made on . i l l ' '

' ' J 1 • J l l 'THE CONCORDIEN.SIS 15 either side. Union apparently had not hit her stride, and Colgate was playing a fast, snappy game. The first count was made by Kennedy of Colgate, when he dropped a foul goal into the basket . . Then suddenly it seemed as if the Garnet machinery began to work; the wheels clicked together, and after a dazzling cross- volley of passes, \Teedy\ Woods broke the ice by dropping a neat field goal into the basket. This seemed to be the inspiration required, and the team played like a single engine, efficiently placing its shots, break- ing los~, traveling down the floor as one man and shooting baskets almost at will. Three times in succession Captain \DaveH dodged down the floor far to the side of the court, and three titnes the opportunity was grasped, and without opposition three more baskets were scored. But this was only the beginning of the spurt. ·Houghton slipped in another shot and \Dave\ Beaver came across with one, too. Scattered in amongst this volley of baskets were four foul goals, which Houghton caged. This spurt only lasted about five minutes, but it left the Colgate team panting behind by a score of 13 to 1. Then the crescendo seemed to falter for a moment and Colgate had a little jubilee on her own account, bringing the score up to eleven points be- fore the half ended, with a total score of 18 to 11. Kennedy was the star performer for the team from Hamilton. In the second half Union seemed to fall into a slump, and allowed Colgate to score most of her remaining points before brac- ing again and adding ten to her total. The slight staleness which was apparent at the Williams game came into evidence again. This does not mean that the Hill-toppers did not play good basketball, but there wasn't the quick, snappy action, the team- play, the pep and strength of the first half. Occasionally the half was enlivened by really clever passing, but for the most part Union was content to play a defensive game. It has been announced that the final deciding gan1e with Wesleyan will be played on the R. P. I. court Saturday evening. The college may well feel indebted to the sportsmanship of R. P. I., who at the last mon1ent, after making all special-car arrangements, postponing lec- tures and making final plans for the game which was scheduled for Saturday, agreed to postpone it to some future date. Union may well thank our neighbors across the Hudson for their courtesy. The score: Colgate ( 18) Fg. Fg. Tp. Stewart, rf. . ... ~ ............. 1 0 2 l(ennedy, lf. . ................ 4 4 12 Johnson, c. . ................. 1 0 2 Huntington, lg. . ............. 1 0 2 Benzoni, rg. . ................ 0 0 0 7 4 18 Union (28) J. Beaver, If. . ............... 1 Haubner, If. . ................ 0 Woods, c. . .................. 3 D. Beaver (Captain), rg ....... 5 Hough ton, lg. . .............. 2 11 0 2 0 0 0 6 0 10 6 10 6 28 Substitutions-Bourn for Stewart, Col- Rate. Thne-Two 20-minute halves. Referee -Thorpe. Utnpire-Grout. LEAGUE STANDING. W. L. Pc. Union .................... 4 Wesleyan ................. 4 Williams .................. 3 Colgate ................... 1 2 2 3 5 .666 .6no .500 .166

16 THE CONCORD I EN[ SIS A Literary and N.ews Weekly Published by . THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Ente:red at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CH TEF H. Herman Hitchcock, '14, Delta Upsilon House. ASSISTAN'l' EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, R.aym():nd Van Santvoord, '14, Psi Upsilon House. ALUMNI EDITOR Ar1hur D. Sherman, '14, North Colonnade LITERARY EDI'JOR Thomas L. Ennis, '14, Alpha D.elta Phi House. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. C. Baker, '15; D. A. Coulter, '15; H. N. Hubbs, '15; E. R. Hughes, '15. REPORTERS W. C. Long lin, '16; M. D. Ketchum, '16 .; R .. E. Taylor, '16; L. R. VanWert, '16. Morris P. Schaffer, '14, Business Manager, 924 Delamont Ave. Karl E. Agan, '15, Ass',t. Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Publication Office: ScHENECTADY ART PRESS 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. OUR SWAN SONG. With this issue of the Concordiensis, the Editorial Board of 1913-14 passes out of existeace. Beginning with next term, the newly-elected board will assume the duties and the responsibilities which. naturally ac- crue to such a position. Since this is the last time we can speak to the college offi- cially, we take the opportunity to tell you how much we appreciate the help we have had fr()m you during the past year. We 'Degan the year with definite plans and concrete ideas which we intended to aee fulfiBed during our term of office. Jast what degree of success we have attained in carryi<t1g out these plans and in materia} ... izing tbese ideas, vre ~cannot say. As to that, you are perhaps b~tter judges than we. But without being egotistical, we do feel that the Con~ordiensis. is. again coming into its rightful place among our college activities and tl11at, under the leadership of the new . Edito:ri;JJ Board,. the advances made this year ca.~ll be douh:I:ed and Union can have a student paper which', on the basis of actual comparison, will \h{! better in every way than tfte student paper in any college of or near our own size.. We realize that this statetnenJ may be doubted, hut after a thorougb. and unbias~ed ·examination of other public~tions, we truthfully think that the Concoi:diensis is tb.e best of them all. A few facts wi 11 ·explain some of this superiority. The .se-v~nteen numbers of the Concordi~nsis published this college year a verag:-e a trifle over fifteen pages of read- ing rna iter each. This reduced becomes two hundred and thirty-two inches, or nearly twenty feet <Jf actual reading matter, an increase of eighty inches per issue over last year. Hereafter when you notice some typographical error in the paper, think whether you yourself would overlook one or two 1n reading thirty feet of closely- printed proof, as was done on one of our special l!lttm h-ers witlt but one error, and that a misspelled W()td, as a result. Think of that and rememher that we are all hu- man. The rnatter of editing special numbers, as the Football, Junior Week and Married Men's n 11 mbers, has been an innovation which cottrld well be extended next year. Such special numbers give that variety or 1 . i . \ c1 p: hj o1 ti pl 81 C< rr. r E 'I g S1 t] VI tl e b c v a c I p h g s c 0 c h t s

1 .. \ l l J l I l 1 ~ 1 . i . \ ,£ I . . ~ THE C.QNCORDIENSIS 17 change which is so essential in· a college paper. Other l~ess noticeable changes have been made during the year, as in the matter of paper, inserts, more numerous illustra- tions, .etc. Let us say right here that whatever im- provement has been made, has been the re ... sult of the work of no one man, but of the combined interest of the board and of many men not connected with the editorial staff. The paper has too long been considered as the property, almost, of the Editorial Board and, at times, of the editor-in-chief. This idea is wrong, for no man nor sn1all group of men ·can make a paper truly representative of Union. When the whole student-body takes an interest and regards the Concordiensis as their paper, then Union will have the finest little college paper in the country. This spirit of interest already exists and is increasingly evident ,as shown by the frequent contributions to the Con- cordiensis by men in no way connected with the board. May this interest increase and may these contributions become the customary rather than the occasional thing. And now a word about the new Editorial Board. We feel that the future of the paper is in the hands of a body of men of high character and thoroughly capable to go on with the task which we have only started. We have tried to make the Con- cordiensis a better paper, but no one board or two boards can do that alone. It must be a steady, c<::>nstructive growth, and we have chosen for our successors men whom we knew could and would further advance the movement which we have merely started. It is with a feeling of keen regret that we leave our task unfinished, bu~ our regret is mingled with satisfaction that the :new editors have shown themselves so capable of carrying on our work. If you students will support them, the paper will advance ; if not, it will retrogress. The matter is now up to you. For the sake! ' of the old board and what we have tried to do, and the new board and what they hope to do, support the 'Concordiensis. We can assure you that the results will be· satis- factory. Won't you do it? BLACK CAT CLUB. Dr. Berg gave an extremely interesting [ecture in the electr~cal laboratory last Fri- day night under the auspices of the Black ~Cat Club. T'he subject of the lecture was \Japan and was made extremely realistic by some excellent lantern slides and by the ' explanations of them, which were given by Dr. Berg. There were a number of visitors present and all enjoyed themselves thoroughly. GIRLS HEAR THE GLEE CLUB. Concert Given at the Y. W. C. A. Head- quarters. Last Thursday afternoon \Billy\ Mudge took his loyal band of Harmony Sharpers down to the Y. W. and preceded to give a resume of their entire program, the one so pleasingly rendered in days gone by. To wake up the audience the gleemen rendered, in their usual unsurpassed man- ner, \Wake Up, Sweet Melody.\ And then, the rooms being slightly dark, they sang the next song \In· the Candlelight.\ The quartette then, taking pity on the assem- blage, sang a catchy number about \Poor Willie.;' But \Billy\ didn't get wise to what was up, so the gleemen sang \Be- V\rare.\ By this time \Bill\ caught his cue,

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS and so he said the quartette ought to ~e in prison, and ''Stan\ seconded this statement and sang a solo about how dark it was \Down in a Dungeon.\ rrhe quartette was finally released through the untiring efforts of a girl they met down by ''The 0:1d Wish- ing Well.\ To ·conclude the program the club sang \My Pretty Maid\ in very pleas- ing style. At the conclusion of the program the lad:ies expressed their thanks heartily and in a material n1anner. The refreshments con- sisted of sandwiches, cake, candy and coffee. 'Tomorrow evening the M usica1 Clubs journey to Albany for their annual concert. Thirty n1en will make this tirp. Owing to a faculty ruling, there will be no Easter trip this year. However, the clubs will go to Cohoes on the 13th of this month for what will probably be the final concert of the season. 1916 WINS ,DEBATE. The first interclass debate ever held at lJ nion took place Monday evening between the freshmen and the sophomores in Silli- man Hall. The decision was awarded to the second--year speakers. The question was : Resolved, That the commission form of government should be adopted in all sec- ond-class cities in New York State .. \ The judges were Professors Bennett, March and Chase. Jacob ~1. Frankel, '17, ·of Schenectady, was the winner of the prize of $10 for the best individual presentation. The debate excited a deal of enthusiasm, and the re- buttal proved exceedingly lively. Those who 1nade up the two teams, in their speaking order, were, for 1916, C. Newell Smith of Schenectady, Richard E. Taylor of Greenville. and Foster Brown of Schenectady, and Jatnes B. Taylor, alter- nate; 1917, John H. Tregurtha, Jacob 1\ti. Frankel and Forest B. Van Avery, all of this city, and H. Ralph Knight of Glens Falls, as alternate. Now that the idea of interclass debating has been tested and found successful, sev- eral others will take place during the next term. .The senior class has issued a chal- lenge to the juniors to a debate. Arrange- ments are now being made for the con- test. After the debate the Christian Associa- tion held a \pie social\ for the students. The thing was a huge success, and it has been reported that several freshmen de- voured (the only word to use) fifteen or more pieces of pie. We wonder if they were really dieting or only \making b'lieve.\ N eedl'ess to say, the fellows were all delighted with the entertainment. SWIMMING EXHIBIT. Mallen Goes Below the Intercollegiate Record For the Distance. Last Tuesday night after the Garnet bas~ ketball team had succeeded in overcoming the Colgate quintet, a large part of those who attended the game adjourned to the lower floor of the gymnasium to witness an exhibition of swimming by Smith, '15 ; Mallen, '16, and Reed, '16. Mallen's two opponents were allowed a handicap, Smith being given eight seconds while Reed re- ceived four. The length of the race was fifty yards, just twice the length of the pool. At the turn \Phil\ had overcome about half of his handicap and Reed was nearly even with Smith. As the trio came back the length of the pool, Mallen gained steadily on the other two and finished ·!n the lead. Reed was second. Mallen's time was 25 seconds. The intercollegiate record for fifty yards is 25 3-5 seconds. ' ' ) . .~ .

,J l ' ., ' 1 :{ l . ) 'l i i ! \ THE CON,CORDIENSIS i ! Schenectady's (}realest Drug .St.ore Telephone anything to Quinn's, Schenectady ''s Greatest Drug Store, fo:r anything you want. Ca!ll 1285. Free delivery by messengers. Cor .. STATE & CENTRE STS. Steefel. Bros. ALBANY Steefel Quality Clothes Ready for Spring Aside from their striking style.· and their clean cut appearance it is the quality, the fabric and fit which have made Steefel Clothes the talk of talk of the town. Priced $10 to $45. You have a look coming to you. Come in. Sprin~ Hats, Gloves, Shoes and Furnishings also ready '' Up to the Top .in Gentlemetz,~s Clothes'' We have chan~ed our Location STULL BROS., Tailors New Waiting Room :Entrance Lafayette or State Streets A Good English Style EVERY SHOE A STANDARD SHOE Douglas $3 to $4 a pair. Heyvroods $4 to $5. Surefits $4 to $6. Stetson!; $6 to $7. Hanans $6 to $S Sixty styles for all occ~sions ·PATTON & HALL , z45 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY PATRONI~E 'YOUR PAPmR'S PATRONIZERS

THE CONCORDIENS,IS BARNEY'S Where Rver;borl;, Shops Students will find that they have every- thing at - - BARNEY'S H. S. BARNEY CO. Sche11ectatl_y~J (7reatest Stor• SH:OE SALE Men's Crossett- $6.00 bench made waterproof Shoes- Sale price $4.95 Other makes at reduced prices. EMERY'S C:or:rect Dancing Also the new danees' Prof. Ki:IgaJ:len's Private Dancing Classes Furth.er information see Hand Book page 52 Yate's Boat House Th.e :hugest and best equipped ill the state. Excellen1 DanCing Hall, which can be rented :for Pri· ate Parties only, in connection with house - - • - - • 29 Front Street Bo:th Phones Fia8 ·furniture at Popul'ar Prices J.OHN WAGNER CO. 260-262 State Street. We Annou·nce the season's latest developments in refined appar~el for the particu- lar man ........ . Clothing · · - Furnishings - - - Hats Wells & Coverly TROY Dancing Waltz, Two-Step, Three-Step and Bluebell taught ,in one term. Modern Dancing The new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip~ Hesitation Waltz and the One Step taught in th~ee lessons. All lessons .guaranteed. Frank M. Cain Master of Dancing 429 State St. Schenectady v. E. Wheldea, Manaaer Arcade Hall, :ftear N. Y. C. Depot 'fbone 2723-J SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \·CON.CORDY'• i J

i J THE CONCORDiENSIS 1878 E. C. HARTLEY 1914 Dealer in PU BiL 1 IC STE;NOGRAPHER F • c· • d p· ·• • 1n~e · . r·ocer1es a.n · rovtsions Special Prices made for goods in quantities Room 74 Parker:Building. S;pecial Rates to Students : to College Fraternity Houses. 601-603 UNION STREET TELEPHONE c:otrell and Leonard ALBANY, N. Y. ·r=:::;;;;;;:::;:::::::;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil Makers of Caps, Gow-ns and Hoods l.J. 31. W~tarlt DELICATES·SEN ' ''Joe\ caters to the student. Break- fast between classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Back of St. John's Church 1 0 the Arneri can Colleges ·and Universities from 'P 298 W the Atlantic t() the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty · : HONE • ·. 722 EASTERN AVE. Drawini! Inks Vacuum Cleaners • H. . • • , · · . 1gg1ns ( I ~ I Eternal Writintt Ink Engrossing Ink Taurine Mucilage Photo Mounter Paste Drawing Board Paste Liquid Paste Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand Cia rk Witbeck Co. Tile Big Hardware Store Ftllows come down and get acquainted with NICKLAS Phone 2322- W. 169 Jay Street I l Office Paste Vegetable Glues, etc. lRE liKE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-s mel1 ing inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. I-IlGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. Visthn~ rm:PHON£. Cal\'ds 2635 w WeddtnQ Stahon.ery EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNIS!iER. \Bus1n s Cards-LeherHeads Class Pins -Mono(rams Crests. Coats cf Ar~s etc . E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' GlC>ves for all occasions, Opera and Silk ltata, Best Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men .DES I Gt'4Ef\5 £NGf\AVEf\S P~INTE~S f.MBOSSf:\S PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

'· ': THE CQN:CQRDIEN:SIS SAUER BROTHERS Successors to Schenectady Book Bindery and Printing Company Printing, Binding, Makers of High Class Stationery, Loose Leaf Devices and Index Systems. Special Ruled Blank Books Made to O:rder. 31!6 State Street-,Phone 2799-W. Special Rates to Students KEELER'S --EUROPEAN-- HOTEL AND RESTAURANT Broadway and Maiden lane Albany, N. Y. GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty -five Private Dining Roons J Wm. H. K:eeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street LYON 'S The Store With Over · Ioo,ooo Prescriptions .. Sole Agents for Huyler's Bon Boos and Chocolates Kodaks, Premos and All Photo Supplies LYONS, Cor. State and Centre St. Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 STATE S.T~'EET LENS GRINDING A SPEGIALTY ·o. 0. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eyes Tested and Glasses Fitted C. A. Whelan & Co. TOBACCO Rindfleisch Parisian Dye Works. JOHN B. HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Class Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phone 2100-W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great dif- ference between common flowers and the flowers we grow at our own greenhouses right here in Schenec· tady by patronizing W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Alban7 Street Phone 3628-L Greenhouae 1408 State St. · Phone 1543-J llutnu N attnuul1Sttuk l;t}Jtnrrta~g. N. V. Safe Deposit Boxes for Rent SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CONCORDY ,_

THE CON·CORDIENSIS ·949 .. Dime· Mes·s·enger Service .. 94'9 Messengers furnishe-d for Doetivery of Parcels, Notes, Invitations, Citrcuhlt1S a~ad Errands 438 STAT'E STREET, opposite Jay :St.. TELEPHONE 949 T:HE TEN EYCK Leading Hotel ·Of Albany, N.Y .. Fireproof ·01chestral Concerts during di.n11er and after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from t to 6 o' cloc:k .A..'lso THE ONONDAGA, Syracase, N. \Y .. FIREROOF .Botb hotels conducted on European Plan Under direction of FRED'K W. ROCKWELL A. R. Zita's Orchestra :FURNITURE Wl]t 1£~isnu AMERICAN PLAN All ·Outside Rooms. EDWIN CLUTE, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. furnished music at Union College 1905 'o6 '07 'o8 '09 '10 '11 '12 and 1913 , , , ' ' ' Best Da~nce Music in the World H. R. PHONE Main 3483-W o~f· d R 167 H .• St Alb Only the Best Service. None Better for C~ncert i I ICe an es., . · ami ton ., any TAXI SERVICE Quick, Dependable Day and Nigh1 Service. The quickest and most cornf&rtable wa'j to get to and from social and b11siness en.· gagements. Touring Cars for parties and <>ut-of-tovtn calls. PHONE 991 Day or Night. Any titne. Shannon & Son II8 1-2 North Ferry St. The Sterling Art Shop A place for gift giving purchases. Interior Decorating. WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady 20th Century Lunch WE SERVE THE. BEST HOME .. MADE PASTRY IN THE Cll~Y 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office·~ PATRONIZE YOl.J:R :PAPER'S PATRONIZIDRS

T·HE CONCORDJENSIS Warmth without weig'ht outer coats. Now is the time fellows $25.00 to $75.'00· J. J~~HILLMAN The~Gleason Book Co. 104.JAY STREET, Gleason BQilding '~On your way to the Post Office\ SC_HENECT ADY'S LEAD~NG FLOWER SHOP ''THE STUDENTS' FLORTST'' ' . JULIUS EGER T.elephone 3140 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street 6'17 State Street · The Students' Problem Solved You can get the extra half hour sleep every morn· in.g and still be on time for chapel. The solution of this problem is an. ELECTRIC TOASTER and an ELEC- TRIC COFFEE P.E R- COLATOR. Then, simp1y turn the switch and your breakfast is r.eady by the time you are dressed. Sc~enectady Illuminating Co. 511 State Street Telephone 2500 UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. G .. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOL~ER BROS. CO., Inc. Largest d~alers i~ Sanitary Milk in the City of Scht;ne~tady. OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED TELEPHONE SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CONCORDY\ j i ·i l ; i

j i -i l . i ' THE CONCORDIENSIS CHAS. H. TURNER Sporting G·oods Albany, N.Y. MOE DEWILDE~ Hatter and Furnisher. Trunks and Leather ,Goods 54 State St., Albany, N. Y. William J. Reinhart McClure & Cowles Designer. and Maker of MEN'S CLOTHES Pianos and Player Pianos. Victor Talking Machines and Records. Five exclu· sive Victor ·Parlors. Easy Payments . 8 James Street, Albany, N.Y. 64 No. Pearl St., Albany~ ·N. Y .. Albany's Progressive Drug Store \Root for Jack\ Morris Drug Co. FISHER'S 26-28 No. Pearl St. Alhany Agency for Whitman's 112 No. Pearl St. \Our Business is Growing\ DANKER Reliable Corsage Bouquets o.f ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS \ .. ·' Albany 40 and 42 Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PA.TRONIZERS

THE c~ONCORDIEN.SIS· PARSO.NS' ORCHESTRA Music F ·urnished for all Occasions T elepltone 2131-J The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET A complete department food store The best in everything for the table at the lowest cash prices Quick - Active - Service The Schenectady Clothing Company Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Fr~eman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros.' Sweaters Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 200 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles 310 State Street, Schenectady Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS4t OlLS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishea 212 So. Centre St. A ••sQUARE DEAL\ :for everyb(:)dy is the \Spaulding Policy.,. We guarantee each buyer of an article bearing the Spaulding Trade-Mark that such article will give satisfaction and a reasonable amount of service. A G Spaulding & Bros 126-128 Nassau Street • • . · • 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalogue VanVoast & Leonard GENERAL INSURANCE 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL SHOES The Best Made Shoes in the World They wear longer-they cost less. ENDICOTT -JOHNSON and COMPANY 206 So. Centre Street. Near State SAY YOU S.A W IT IN THJD •• CONCORDY,.

THE CONCORDIENSIS W4t 1!;amptnn Albany --~----~~----~~--------------------~------------- THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF MEN'S HOSERY, UNDERWEAR & SWEATERS IN THE CITY All styles and materials-Cotton, Mercerized 9 Merino and Silk Also a fine line of Pajamas and Night Shirts. Our prices are right-our goods are right-and our right method of doing business has brought us an ever increasing nurn ber of satisfied customers. If you are not at ready acquainted with us and our goods, please consider this a personal invi .. tation to call and be convinced of our sincerity and desire to please. United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street Albany, N. Y- ESTABLISHED 1850 I. J. IDQnrtt 46 7 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. ~nus ~ JEWELERS & SILVERSMITHS EvERYTHING IN CuPs AND MEDALS \' 10 NO. PEARL STREE,_r ALBANY. N. Y. f' A'CRONIZE Y()t.T:ft PAPER'S PATRONtZI~RS

:: :l p·' ,, ~ :'1 •' ; . ' ~ :!.' ( ·~- • . . ') • I lheij ollie of sc (? l Good Clothes SAY MEN: YJ e sell Hart, Schaffner & Minx Clothes; and you: know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells i -~ '- --- . . tl_le right kind, and natu!ally must sell the right kind of ~ther things to wear too. If you !9ok us over a little: ~e think you'll like us and our ~ay of doing business .. The· College· Clothier 240 .. 44 State Street Schenectady Art Press ...... -~---· -- 8- -~--- •• - -• \

