THE Published Weekly by the Students of Union College VOL. 38 NOVEMBER 5th, 1914 NO. 5

.,. ' ' '' I !. l I :I \I ' '' I (I i , I II i l ., ' ' 1! ': I, j I l' j , ~ I i: l ! : I . il·:; f : '' ' i I ' f ~I I, ' '. 1/ :: II :: j ! ~ l :,; ' !•,!' ~)I • l ] I: I , : I I' I , ; ! ; I I '' I , :. l(: ! ' ; i ! , I j! ! I, ; : ~ 1 ; ; j i > 1 l ! i i! I I: Jl : . . i ! : : ; . I ; I I ' I I. ; j : i : I l l f i I I ; ! I ' . i : ' ! j I . l i '' J UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses : 1. Ceur~es leading to the clegree o:f A. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRsE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will thert be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Course leading to 'the degree o:f P·h. B. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRsE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the deg·ree of B. S. SCIENTIFIC CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the deg·ree ot B .. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING Cou:RSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRsE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Courses le-a(ling to gra(luate degrees. CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE oF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work JOSEPH NUTTALL ·Caterer Office 410 Union St. Phone 2845 Special Teas and Coffees for Frats CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE o:F M. S. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work CoURSE LEADING TO DEGREE OF PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent Catalogues and circulars containing full in forma- tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPi\RTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKER, ] . NEWTON FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: l'viatriculation fee, $.Io; tuition fee, $I IO. For catalogue or other in formation, address: }OHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHi\RMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $E)o.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. Ar;FRED B. 'HtrESTED, Secretary, ''Everything for the College Man except Exem•'' GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Middle Section. So. College Pho!'!'~ 1472-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate ''. •',' ' ' '' .~ ': :~ ·. ~ ,; ' ~ l ''· ! -

. l ,. ! . f ~ ' : '' ,. :' f ' ' ' \· TRADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LATEST STYLES---MEN'S : French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoea are worn. AU styles and leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WALL STS. The Cain's Leading expon- ents of Modern Dancing in Schenectady and Vicinity New Pupils received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday. Private Lessons by appoint· ment. Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phone 2710-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS r~;;nja; 3 ~:;:~ Company EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well tdressed men.

I , I I BABBITT & CO'S. PALL AND WINTER DISPLAY OF America's Most Fam·ous Make ROGERS-PEET CO. Is full of the strongest kind of attractions for every man who is keen for clothes whose equal can only be found in highest price Custom- Tailor Shops. The last word in select fabrics, exclusive tailoring and up-to-the-hour correct styles will be found in this exceptionally strong line. WE MAKE A SPECIALTY OF Ro.aers-Peet Co's. Dress Clothes In our Dress Clothes Department will be found all the latest and best ideas in smart Day and Evening Dress for men. This Department is a revelation to many men who have visited it and found therein the highest type of Dress Clothes possible to produce,-garments which in fit, fashion and quality the most expensive of custom made clothes can not improve upon at double the price. Babbl .tt & ·Co \Albany's Greatest Clothiers\ • 451-453 BROADWAY @)a.e.P. THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We .are .not living in the stage-coach decade, at whtch ttme the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as owe did in by-gone days. Neither would you hav- ing your shoes repaired by the o14 s!yle. hand method way, if you knew the supenonty tn our up-to-date machine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 438 State Street Opposite Jay Street Free Order Service Telephone 3456 Higgins' ( Drawing lnlc:a I Eternal W ritin~ Ink En~roaain~ Ink I Taurine Mucila~e il PhotQ Mounter Pute DrawinJ! Board Pute Liquid Paate ll Office Paate Ve~etable Gluea, etc. ARE THE FINEST AND B.EST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smel1ing inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 2 71 Ninth St. Brooklvn, N. Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street, ' I ' ( . ~

Why Should I Smoke TUXEDO? T UXEDO is the logical smoke for milliona£res because it is impos- sible to buy a hetter tobacco. Tuxedo is the logical smoke for the economical man because there are 40 pipefuls in a ten-cent tin- making the average cost per pipeful only one-fourth of a cent I To buy cheaper tobacco means to get ·less pleasure out of smoking, because it is impossible to make a tobacco as good as Tuxedo at less than the Tuxedo price/ The Per/ect Tobacco for Pipe and Cigarette Tuxedo is made of only the finest, choicest selected leaves of perfectly aged Burley tobacco. It is made by the or£ginal ''Tuxedo Process'' which takes all the unpleasantness out of tobacco and leaves all the pleasantness in I Tuxedo has a deliciously mild, fragrant aroma that is pleasant to all. It is the only tobacco you can smoke in a room full of lace curtains without leaving even a trace of odor. A trial will convince you that Tuxedo is superior to every other tobacco you have ever smoked. Buy a tin-today. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenient pouch_. 5 in'!er-lined with C moaature•proof paper Famous green tin. J\\ O\ with gold lettering. C curYed to fit pocket In Gla•• Humidora, 50c and SOc FREE \ Send us 2 cents in stamps for post- . age and we will mail you a souvenir tin of TUXEDO tobacco to any point in the United States. Address ' THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY Room 1299 111 Fifth Avenue New York GEO.CURRY ex-Governor, New Mexico '~ Tuxedo appeals to me : · atrongly on account of its • cool~ mild~ pleasant flavor • . Therein lie& its superiority to • · all other tobaccos.\ ~~· STANTON WARBURTON Cong-ressman State of Washington .. My own experience leads me to helierJe hat every de- · airahle qualitJ) is present in · Tuxedo Tobacco. It is the 6af smoke l ever had. '' ,r:~~ IRVIN S. COBB humorist and novelist • •[ can't think of any rea- son why I 3houldn 11 1 &ay 1 like Tuxedo - because I Jo li/ce it~ VeTJ much. ~' ~n. J. ~· - II • 4 .

Say Fellows: Bring in your lau·ndry and save money Note these Pricea: :Shirts all Kinds: ...................... lOc 'I c · ollars ..................................... 2c Union Suits . . . . . . . ...•............ lOc Underwear, Night Shirts and Pajamas.. . . ... , ........ 6c each Hose ...........•......•..... 3c per pair Handkerchiets ..•......•...........•. 2c Barrow's Hand Laundry 738 State Street We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our ·Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Maker• of Caps, Gowns and Hoods To the American Colleges and Univeraitie1 from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Cla11 contracts a apecialty UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited .... The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street To Cure Cold til BUY A GAS HEATER MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' Art ~torr No. 1 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady, N.Y. I tl\ll\l ·,\ ,, I T W £,:\ H I <)1'\11'1\N'( Hosiery 1 Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. I ' : f Ji ]

I Ji Clothing Furnishings Hats We're ready whenever you our. Why not cnme to-day? The newest and best in each department. ~ Wells & Coverly TROY \If It's Made of Rubber We Have:lt'' . m Athletic Goods Rubber Auto Goods Goods Auto 'Tires ill Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. KEELER',S ----EUROPEAN--~ H'OTEL and Caba;ret at 9 P. M. Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and BiHiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. Fine Imported and Domestit Woolens Telephone 2323- J GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream., Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamerr 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.\

I I ' I . j i ! l' i' ·! ' Ready to W·ear i and Custom, · ' Made STYLISH CLOTHES · Compa.rison is the . · · Lever That Turns . FOR YOUNG MEN Trade Our Way .This is the busiest store in .Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, superiority of workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in aH our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to all College Student is yours for the asking.. . 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases ·of.$10 or over if this ad is presented at the time of purchase. 503 - 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Ph·one 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N.Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. ~ The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: Men's soles, sewed ________ 75c Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c Ladies' soles, sewed _______ 6Qc Men's Heels _______________ 2Sc Men's soles, nailed ____ 50 to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________ -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 1908 1914 CARL DANNA, Beta Theta Pi Colleate Repreaentative ROW TANGO SHIRTS are an evening dress • necessity. The bosoms are tucked, puffed, plea- ted or ''mushroom.\ $2.00 and up Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. Makers NEAR BARNEY'S 1915 Let's Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 298-W. 722 Eastern Ave. vc GJ th: me SU' AE Tr sh: th dii HI re1 bo . lUj th la< pe Sti 1n so nc g<: se W:

The Concordiensis VOL. 38 NOVEMBER 5, 1914 N0.5 GARNET T~AM TAKES SIXTH VIc ... TORY. Largest Crowd Ever on R. P. I. Field Witness Game. Right off the reel we want to announce that Rensselaer showed Uuion the best most courteous vvelcome, both to team and supporters which we have received this year. As the result was, the Union delegation lett Troy with nothing but respect and fellow- ship in their minds for the institution across the river. Had the result been altogether different, we could have felt no differently. Here's to the burial of the hatchet and the replenishment ot the convivial wassail- bowl! ~ After ten years o£ abstinence R. P. 1. a.nd Union could no longer refrain £ro1n oppos- ing each other on the gridiorn, and Saturday the big game came off. Union 24-Re~sse­ laer 0 'vas the final score. It was R. P. I.s gala day-their big game -and it was estimated that tour thousand people witnessed the contest. The Union student body travelled over to Troy \en tnasse\ and distinguished themselves £or all sorts o£ enthusiasm and organized cheering. no less enthusiastic, i£ a trifle sadder as the game progressed, was the R. P. I. cheering sections which were filled to overflowing with cherry and white supporters. R. P. I. relied, fruitlessly as it happened, upon open play. A quadrangular forward J>ass tormation looked excessively danger- ous but upott each occasion except one to .. ward the end of the game Union's sturdy detense was capable ot spilling the play. It was this abi1ity to break ttp the play which eventua11y had a large hand in the size of the score. Vle have fout or five names to submit to the Hall of Fame tor Saturday,s perform- ance. Chief among these is Rosecrarts, then in close succes~1on follow Jackson, Roof, and Beaver. Between them with Cirling to kick the goals they piled up the Garnet's twenty-four points. 1fhe game abottnded in speetacular plays, chief among which was \Tubby\ Rosecran's torty-eight yard drop kick which inaugur- ated the scoring ot the afternoon. ifhis was a retna.rkable kick which rose serenely high in air and dropped square in the middle of the posts and a bare three inches over the bar. In the second quarter a thrilling sixty-five yatd run by Jackson when he in- tercepted a Rensselaer forward pass was a notable feature, and in the third quarter the £eat was duplicated when Roo£ spurted through and over and around half the Troy team with good interference, broke loose and deposited the ball once more behind the R. P. I. goal. Then in the fourth period by a succession of forward pass and line plunges, hard

' ',' I· 10 THE CO.NCORDIENSIS straight football, Union once more threat- ened her opponents and '''Jake'' Beaver went through for the third :goal. First Quarter. Rosecrans, behind strong interference, ran the kickoff back to the center of the field. A wide run by Girling and a line buck by Roof gave the Garnet first down, but Rensselaer held a11d 'Girling was forced to kick. Peart was downed. on his twenty- five yard line and after vain attempts to break through, R. P. I. essayed a kick, but the pass was fumbled. Jackson broke through the line meanwhile and secured 'the ball. Here was Union's best opportun- ity to score, for the ball was hers on R. P. I.-'s twenty yard line. By straight football Beaver's men made first down, and then lost the ball on downs. R. P. I. punted. After three attempts to gain, \Tubby\ Rosecrans got word to kick. The ball was passed straight and true, the line held like a stone wall. \Tubby\ took all the time in the world, measured the distance, swung up his foot and-the score was Union 3, R. P. I. 0. Hokerk kicked off and soon after R. P. I., unable to gain, punted. Union worked the bali to the middle of the field and again Rosecrans attempted a drop. This kick was even prettier than the first, but the distance was too great and the ball just missed the post. It was R. P. I.'s ball on her own 20 yard line. The Garnet line held and R. P. I. punted out just as the whistle blew. free but once loose Jackson shot toward the goal as if his almost 200 pounds were all concentrated in obyeing Sir Isaac Newton's laws of gravity for a falling body rather than shooting along on a dead level. In more ways than one did Johnny resemble those famous axioms for he gained impetus as, he went along, trailed his pursuers, and ended faster than he began. Amid thun- derous paeons of applause, Girling kicked the goal. After the kick off R. P. I. showed her best football, gaining three successive :first downs and creeping down to Union's thirty yard line. Here, however, they fumbleJ and the half ended. Third Quarter. In this quarter Rensselaer broke its back on forward passes. Time after time the ball hurtled through the air toward the quar- tette of waiting cherry and white players, each time, however, to be intercepted by Roof, Girling, or some other agile player. It seemed a desperate attempt and this formation succeeded but once during the afternoon. Once during the bombardment of passes Roof got squarely under one, tempted it, fascinated it, seduced it to nestle to his breast, and then trickled through all opponents with it, and stormed up to the goal for another six points. Girl- ing again obliged. Fourth Quarter. Second Quarter. After five minutes of play, Johnny Jack- son made himself famous. He worked through the line somehow, spilled aforward pass from Peart, grabbed the ball, trickled in and out of the whole cherry and white team, and then sprinted sixty-five yards down the field amid the frenzied shouts of Garnet supporters, for a goal, pursued by two of R. P. I.'s speediest men. It took mighty fast work and clever dodging to get Apparently undistnayed by the failure of the pass to get results R. P. I. again resort- ed to it in the fourth quarter. The first one attempted was cajoled-fickle creature-in- to Captain \Pete\ Starbuck's possession on R. P. I.'s thirty yard line. Then Beaver un- corked one on his own account which \Pete\ again caught. He went right on with it to the seven yard line and from there after a few line plunges Beaver went through for a third touchdown. Girling kicked the goal, making the score 24 to 0. \ '• ~ ;!··· •.. •;·>\ ',', ' ., ' . v ] ( ] (

' s le 1 , 1_, i .. : •••• > l \ '• ~ ;!··· •.. •;·>\ ',', .. , ' . v THE CONCORDIE.NSIS 11 Soon after, Dawson perpetrated the \most unkindest cut of all.\ Feeling secure of the game, and unwilling to run the risk of in- jury to some of the team, he dispatched practically the entire second team-Rock- \i\rell, Vroman, Nash, Akin, Cleveland, Al- pert, Anderson, Mudge and Byron-to take the places of the players so far in the game. Rensselaer gained its first forward pass through this combination, but Mudge ran · the hall back almost as far as the pass gained. Soon afterwards the game ended and the two parades began. Besides the players mentioned, Hokerk was a tower of strength on the line, watch- ing every play closely, following the ball keenly, and kicking off so that he had R. P. I. backs running way back for the ball every time. Garry Wood busted even more in- terference than is usual with him-and that's saying a great deal, believe us; while \Pete\ Starbuck in spite of his knee work- ed in defense and offense equally well. Friday, Price, Jackson, Jenkins (who played his best game of the season) were all there, following the ball hard, making the line a :stone wall reinforced with concrete, and do- ~ing credit to their Alma Mater in every way. Between halves the rival institutions par- aded, sang, and cheered. In conclusion we may say that we like R. P. I., and will be very glad to see her representatives meet ours again under any circumstances. RENSSELAER UNION Zahn ------------------ (Capt.) Starbuck left end. Cox ----------------------------- Wood left tackle. Frank -----------~---------------- Price left guard. 1?\ oung ---------------·---------- Hokerk center. Conant ------------------------- Jackson right guard. Lockman -------------------~--- right tackle. Parrott -----------·-------------- Friday right end. Peart ------------------------ J. Beaver quarterback. GoodeU -------------·-------- Rosecrans left halfback. Gallagher (Capt.) ------------------ Roof right halfback. O'Hara ------------------------- fullback. Girling SCORE BY PERIODS. Union --------.---------3 7 7 7-24 Rensselaer ------·------0 0 0 0- 0 SUMMARY. Touchdo\vns- Jackson, Roof, Beaver. Field goal-Rosecrans. Goals from touch- down-Girling, 3. PenaUies-Rensselear, 15 yards, Union, 15 yards. Referee-Drap- er, Williams. Umpire-Sanders, Columbia. Head linesman-Gately, N. Y. U. Time of periods-Two 15 and two 12 minute periods. Substitutions-Rensselaer, Schilt for Zahn, Morse for Cox, Praeger for Lockman; Union : Gardner for Price, Mudge for Girl- ing, Girling for Mudge, Wood for Rockwell, Rockwell for Wood, Vroman for Price, Nash for Hokerk, Akin for Jenkins, Cleveland for Friday, Alpert for Vroman, Rockwell for Wood, Mudge for Roof, Anderson for Girl- ing, Byron for Rosecrans. PREXY'S DATES. On November 12 Doctor Richmond will give an address before the Utica Teachers' Association. On the following day he will bpeak to the Short Ballot Association in the college chapel. The State Teachers' Asso- ciation will hear a speech from Prexy in Al- bany on November 24. December 'l, at a meeting of the Fortnightly Club of Schenec- tady a paper will be read by Doctor Rich·- mond. . On December 13 he whl preach at Bryn Mawr College. '·· '·I li 'i ' ..

I ! I ' .' I I I t I •i l: · II 1: I j, i: ,I I 'I (1 'J I l 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS STUDENTS GREET OLD GRADUATE. Wednesday at one o'clock a loud burst of enthusiasm was heard when the under- graduates gathered it?- front .of Prexy's house to -greet Howard Melville Hanna of Georgia, who was taking lunch with the president. The greeting consisted of a number of cheers and the singing of Alma Mater and other songs. After the first cheer Mr. Hanna and Prexy appeared and after being introduced by Prexy the former spoke a few words to the students. Mr. Hanna graduated in 1860 and has not been back to Union 'since his under-graduate days. However he has al- waystaken a keen interest in his Alma Mater and on different occasions has given sums of money for her benefit. Among these donations was a gift of $25,000 last year. RIGHT AND WRONG VIEWS OF ATHLETIC SPORT. A Communication from the National Col- legiate Athletic Association. Athletic sport, if honorably and wisely conducted, can hold its own in any institu- tion of learning: but to gain a position of dignity, it must be saved from many of its friends, and maintained on so high a level that no reasonable man can question its value. Rightly administered it strengthens the weak, improves the weak places in the strong, clears the brain, teaches boys and young men to respect their bodies and to know the relation of a clean, vigorous body to an active mind and an honorable life. Rightly conducted it is a school of manly skill, courage, honesty, self-control, and even of courtesy; wrongly conductecl it is a school of had manners, vulgarity, tricky evasion, brutality-the ideals not of a sports- man but of a sporting man. We are constantly told that in England men play for the sake of playing, whereas in America men play for the sake of \Vinning. .The more serious the question of winning, the more serious the need of winning hon- orably. Sport in America is not mere fun; it is a test of character, and nothing that makes the player less a gentleman belong;; to it. The footbaJl player who wantonly injures his rivals, the baseball player who persists in shouting to rattle his opponents, the schoolboy or student who takes money for summer baseball and conceals the fact, should be put out of the team. Nor should any school or any college have secrets as to the legitimacy of its athletic representa- tives. To maintain high ideals in athletic sport is the chief purpose of the National Col- legiate Athletic Association. This Asso- ciation brings together representatives of more than one hundred universities and col- leges in three meetings held on one day every year. Sometimes a group of colleges sends a joint representative; oftener a col- lege sends a man of its own, or two or three men, of whom only one represents it of- ficially. A number of schools and academies have associate membership. Committees working throughout the year prepare busi- ness for the meetings, when the delegates lis- ten to addresses from men who know much about athletic sports, and reports from com- mittees on the various athletic sports cul- tivated at college. 'rhe evening meeting is devoted to the discussion of vitally import- ant questions in college athletics. Though strictly the association has no power over the colleges it represents, it has unlimited opportunity of influence. Its dis- cussions of athletics ate the most important in America; and its opinions find expression in \Rules Committees\ and in standards of athletic games throughout the country. The Association encourages \Faculty control of athletics,\ believing that the man in charge of physical education should be a member of the faculty and as good a man as any in it; that he should have a thor- ough acquaintance with athletic sport and a strong sympathy with youth, knowing, and I I j· i·

·• ' t I I j· :·:,'' THE CON·CORDIENSIS 13 able to teach, the difference between clever- ness and trickery, between manliness and brutality, between the amateur spirit and the professional, between the sportsman and the sporting man. THE ANSWER. On page seventeen of our last issue there appeared a problem. The correct answer was handed to the comic editor by the news editor and appears below: At the price of seven dozen for a dollar, the first son sold one dollar-'s worth of eggs, the second son four dollars' worth and the third son seven dollars' worth. Then they raised their price and the first sold nine dol- lars' worth at three dollars a dozen. The second son sold six dollars' worth at this price and the third son sold three dollars' worth at the same price. Thus they returned home with the same amount o£ money, had not cut prices on one another and had sold different quantities of eggs. Figure it out. DR. BERG'S SCHOLARSHIP CUP. Professor Ernest Julius Berg has donated a silver loving cup to the college to be held for a year by the fraternity or club whose average scholarship was the best the pre- ceding year. The cup was presented for this year to the Pyramid Club, by President Rich- mond, who said that the prize was much to be desired because for a man to \make good\ in college he must first of all make good in his work. trhe thirty-eight members of the Pyramid Club had an average of 8.002. Phi Delta Theta was a close second with an average of 7.941. The cup will come in permanent posses- sion of the fraternity or club winning it three years. Be sure to buy a Press Club magaphone before the Hamilton garne. ALUMNI NOTES. The following alumni are taking post- graduate work at Union: Richard Evans, '14. Hugh Stoller, '13. Roy C. Whitney, '13. Walter Smith, '14. Louis de la Verne, '14. Archibald C. Telfer, '14:, is on the \hill\ as- sisting Dr. Landreth. Frank E. Barclay, '14, lis working for the city. John Kruesi, '14, who is taking a course at Cornell this year is on the \hill\ for a few days. FRESHMAN PEERADE PLANS. Regarding the annual freshman peerade, \Vhich will be held the afternoon of the Hamilton game, \Fos\ Btown reports a \ 11 ,, \ '1 . pageant par exce ence -a reg · ar rip- snorter,\ to descend to a classicism. There is to be nothing slow about it. Many inno- vations will give the '18 men superior ad- vantages over their predecessors to show themselves to advantage. An entirely new and attractive stunt will be a greased-pig contest taking place fifteen minutes before the game. Freshmen only (and the pig of course) enter the contest. One man will represent each fraternity and three the neutral body. The lucky \Frosh\ to catch the porker becomes the possessor thereof. This is but one feature in this treat at the expense of the first year men. \Fos\ and his able assistants are plan- ning to give us a first class display but they need money. Pay up your tax, everybody, at once. It's fine to be an editor And have to scratch your wool, To make a paper ever~:. week And fill it up with bull. ;,,1

. I . j ! ' '' 14 TI-IE CON·CORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSlS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE contest keep their tempers down and play the game with a gentlemanly spirit through·- ou t. It is all very easy for us to condemn those who in the strain and stress of the battle sometimes seem to lose their tempers momentarily only to regain them immed- iately when overtaken by a realization of their intended actions. Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. }. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Donald A. Coulter, '15, 3 Regent Street ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, '15 Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood Boulevard ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, '16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 REPORTERS W. M. ,Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Karl E. Agan, '15, Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Howard A. Glenn, Assistant Business Manager, Kappa Alpha Lodge. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street Schenectady, N. Y. CLEAN ATHLETICS. Thus far the results which the Garnet team has brought forth from its various gridiron contests have certainly been highly commendable and we may well feel proud of the of the fact that Union has scored eighty-six points against the· opponent's ten, but there is one other thing of which we should feel even more proud and that is the clean way in which our team has fought through every battle. It is all very easy for those of us who sit calmly on the bleachers and have the late fall breeze to cool our blood to fail to won- der how those men who are straining every nerve and every muscle in the thick of a hot The beauty of football is its almost com- plete freedom from the realm of professional- ism, and the grandeur of all amateur sport should lie in the cleanliness of its execution. No matter how hard it may seem to free our athletics from all which may appear to a visitor to approach unfairness in the slight- est degree. Yet it is certainly something worth while for which any college should strive. Whatever else may be said of the R. P. I. game it is a source of a great deal of pleasure to use to note that a game of football ria yed in a cleaner spirit than this game was, would certainly be a contest of a high- ly inconceivable nature. We won the game fighting like men, the praise of our spec- tators and. opponents by fighting like gen- tlemen. This show of what is known as the \proper spirit\ has always been a char- acteristic of Garnet men. Let us not lose sight of this fact. Let us keep it always be- fore us and if imperfections do tend to arise now and. then, let us fight them down im- mediately. We wish further to add that on the mat- ter of cleanliness we should draw no line between our athletes and our ro0ters. There is such a thing as uncleanliness in cheering and on certain occasions we have not been altogether free from it. It is up to every student of Union Colege, therefore, to read i .. l \ ! I ... I :' ., ! I \• •'• ,•· I a . u t1 Vi w a1 tl w o1 T st or as . lll; . ln: . to co . lS . lS W<J th< pl~ hit Ha Sa1 sor sav wo stn bri1 J one but

y 1: •• t1 e f i ,\ l 1 I I , : ·:· •'• ,•· ' I . \• I I THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 and take to heart the communication in this issue of the Concordiensis from the N a- tional Collegiate Athletic Association of which organization Union is a member, that :vve may know better how to strive to make all of our actions toward all of our oppon- ents conform entirely to the code of laws which has been placed constantly before our athletes and which has led them through the greater part of this successful season without a blemish marked against the record of their conducts. THE TIME HONORED SUBJECT~ OF hills invades our campus. Then, and only then, will we fully realize how rn uch show of that spirit, which is within us, we need in order to excell those men in blue hats who will, at that game, sit opposite us on the bleachers. Some say it can't be done, but we beg to disagree. If every man of Union College will only make up his mind at once that it can and will be done, noth- ing can prevent it. The Hamilton bunch is coming down here with scarcely one man missing. They're going to have a lot of good songs ready. They're going to know every one of these SPIRIT. songs well and have every Hamilton cheer Spirit is not a thing which naturally perfectly. Now· men of Union College it stands out on the surface of any individual or organization. It is an internal, pressure as it were, which makes us desirous of mak- ing some outward expression of those feel- ings V\rithin us which relate in a good way to something about which we are deeply concerned. The show of spirit, however, is something widely different from this. It is the outward expression of this deep in- ward feeling called spirit. It takes not a very keen observer to note that in Union College there is spirit- plenty of it. If any one doubts it we refer him to the show of spirit at last year's Hamilton game and at the R. P. I. game last Saturday. Yes, the spirit is there, but sometimes it is hard to get it to the surface save on exceptional occasions. In other words, though our spirit is there good and strong we need to be urged before we can bring ourselves to show it. Just remember, men, that there is only one week and a little over before that little but loud student body from way up i11 the is strictly up to you. Do you intend to let that Ha-a-a-amilton ring out so loud in comparison to our own yells that the latter will sound sickly. No you don't intend such, but what are you going to do to prevent it? There's one way, fellows. Go to cheer practice and to mass meeting as often as such things take place during this last week of the football season. JVIake up your mind, each and every one of you, that you are going to be able to out yell any Hamilton man on earth by the fourteenth, and put yourself into such a condition that you will do it when the ti1ne comes. Let's all get to work. Again we ask-how about those songs? WHAT THE Y. M. C. A. IS DOING. The speaker at the vesper services in the college chapel, November 1, was the Rev. Clayton J. Potter, pastor of the First Re- formed Church of Schenectady. Dr. Potter is a Union man of the class of~ l900. His subject was the difference between regard- ·,', : .i I if I ,·: , I <J i ! '' 'I c l '

I '! 16 THE CON'CORDIENSlS ing life as a game or thinking of it more seriously. In speaking of college men he stated that, while the man who regarded his life here as a game might go through with his ,class, yet that tnan neither got much out of college nor was he a leader in college life. About the tenth of November Mr. Esco.- bar, secretary for Latin American students, expects to visit Union for a few days. Sec- retary Escobar is a very bright young l\1exican. An opportunity is gi vert for two or three fellows to teach classes of foreigners to speak English. These classes will soon begin the winter;s work. There is also a chance for anyone wishing to teach a boys* B~ble class at the Schenectady Y. M. C. A. The Bible study classes will begin short- ly. 'rhe book under discussion will be \A Student's Standard of Action.\ This is a very practical little book dealing with the ethics of every day life. The students who are so fortunate as to have Silliman Hall for their use are unus- ually appreciative of their privilege. Those who have charge of the hall are very grate- ful for the way the stttdents keep the place in order by keeping the papers off the floor and for the careful way the magazine covers are preserved. The Electric Light Com- pany too, has its little word o£ thanks for the way it's helped out by the lights that are left on when not in use. The studes who use Silliman Hall ought to help out all they can instead of treating the place as a cross between a wastepaper basket and a club house. It certainly would be just as easy and would help a lot. Beneath the spreading chestnut tree, Our math pro£. sits sans sorrow, Be's gathering chestnuts by the score, To feed to us tomorrow. Ask the sophomore engineers~ ENGLISH CLUB. The English Club held its regular fort& nightly meeting in Washburn Hall last Fri~ day. Dr. Chase read a paper dealing with the works and life of Moody, the poet and author. After this a \feed\ was enjoyed by . members of the club. 'rhe following article £rom the Colgate Madisononsis may be o£ interest to the fraternity men on the uhill\ : Some concern has been felt by the fratern- ities of the Urtiversity concerning their ability to taxation under the new income tax law. The new statute, however, does not include such organizati~ns. The only way the fraternities are affected by the in ... come tax law is through their form as cor- porations. Every corporation has to file with the collector of its federal district a statement of the profits and expenses of the business in order that the tax may be levied on the net receipts. But since the frater- nity is not a profit making corporation, it i.:; not affected by the tax law. FRESHMAN FABLES. Number Five. uDear Pop/' wrote Ira Twig recently, \I spent all my allowance over in Troy Satur- day, because we all went over there to see the football team beat R. P. I. I had to buy an arm band and a megaphone and that took money and then Joe Beamish and me had a hesitation sundae and then we had to pay to get in and then after the game which l\1r. Richmond and his team won, Joe Beamish and me was leaving the stands and there was a big parade being started so we jumped right in and marched down the two or three steps from the colege downtown (you know the college is on a little mound) and started off downtown singing. \I guessed I hadn't learned the songs be- cause they didn't sound familiar to me and I sez to Joe Beamish, 'Say Joe, we'd better £l s v 0 0 b tj ~ fc h ' Cl tl a: \ '',: ., ' ·il s ';\I ') fi ~ I; ' ,. l 1( aJ r i' ·}'I:. a1 r·· t'\ ,,; ' : ~ tl ! i i ' C< ' ' tp It, V\ i ar th ar gr ab . fl! he b'~ th, ha pr: . lll( . JU~ ''' ' •'\?. j~ \· co] ;}·: ·~

by ate . e1r . ... .. '·,: · · .[1 ... '\1 \' . i) . ~ I; a f. ~~ . .•. r ·. y· ~. ; ' ' 'lr, \ . ' i.:; i .: . \I ee e- ' ' ~ T.HE CONCORDIENSIS. 17 get out our freshman prayer books and sing to .. ' \So we got out our hymnals and hunted all through them for the song they were singing.. It went something like this: 'For we are we are we are we are the sons of old-' somebody or other, I couldn't make out who. And we hunted all through the books and ·Couldn't find the song, and then the parade got down to the Cannon statue which is a big square. Then a great big fellow who I hadn't ever seen before, but he looked just the ·same as a Terrace Coun- cillor, he jumps out and saw us standing there and he sez, ~:Look here, frosh, why aren't you singing?\ And Joe Beamish sez, 'We can't find the song in the prayer book.' So I gave him my book to see if he could find it, and he looked at the book and let out an awful yell and a big crowd gathered around and the fellow hollers: 'Look here's two Union freshies who don't know where they are.' And everybody laughed and came up closer, and somebody hollered, 'Ask 'em to give a long yell for R. P. I.' Well, we liked them all right; there wasn't any use in not obliging them, so we gave them a long yell and everybody laughed and hollered and shouted. Then somebody grabbed me by the coat and I sailed out about half across the square and landed right on top of Joe Beamish. Then we heard them all yelling again-and say, pop, b'gosh if they weren't all R. P. I. men in that parade and our fellows had gone home half an hour before! Gee, but I was sur- prised. \But I liked them though, they were real nice chaps and they gave a yell for Union just as we got on board the car for home. \Tell ma to send them along-it's getting cold. \Your colege boy, \IRA.\ After N. Y. U., Hamilton! SOPHOMORES TAKE THJRD GAME ,OF FRESHMAN-SOPHOMORE SERIES The sophomores \buried\ the first year team in the election day gan1e. Outweighed and outplayed, the freshmen did not have a ''prayer\ and the final whistle showed a score of .21 to 0 in favor of the sophs. The first score occurred when '17 punted to the frosh. behind the goal line. The catch was fumbled and Northrup was there to fall on the ball. The attempt to kick the goal failed. The ball see-sawed back and forth, neither side making large gains until the sophomores took a brace near the end of the quarter and worked the ball to the five yard Gne. Galbraith went through for touchdown and '1 7 failed to catch the punt out for goal kick. In the second quarter the first year men played their best football when they held the sophs for four downs on their three yard line. After three tries at forward passes within fifteen yards of the freshman goal in the last quarter, N aylon drop kicked neatly between the goal posts, netting the sopho- mores three more points. With only a few minutes to play Mann snatched the ball on a pass and went through for the last touch- down. The sophs also failed to kick this goal. Mann, Miller and N aylon starred for 191 \/ wh=Ie Beckett and Taylor did the best work for 1918. CROSS-COUNTRY. Williams Union. The Union cross-country team, for its first meet, ran Williams here, October 24, just before the Worcester-Union football game. The teams started from the gymnasium at 2 :30, went by the hospital, out the boule- vard and returned, covering about four miles. ~ Williatns got the :first two places while Captain Newton of Union came in third. ' ,.,~ , ..

18 THE CONCORDIEN5IS FIRST CAMPUS MEETING HELD IN CHAPEL. Much Enthusiasm Shown. The first campus tneeting of the year was held last Friday night in the chapel at 'I :00 o'clock. The enthusiasm that was stirred up then lasted through the R. P. I. game and will continue to -do so right through the en- tire season. Prexy Richmond, Fred Da w- son, Captain Starbuck, members of the tean1 and others gave short snappy talks about the R. P. I. game. At this time the Press Club was busy in supplying the de- mand for megaphones and arm bands. This was the first of the meetings which are to be held on Friday evenings during the football season, so let's all come out to keep the ball a going. THE REAL STUFF. An example of real college spirit was noticed in a small, a very small college in Geneva one day last week. Early Friday morning every student and some of the younger professors donned overalls and after a brisk peerade through the town to warm up, started in with picks and shovels, grading schoops and horses to grade their new athletic field. Back and forth went the line of horses and men, loading and un- loading the scoops ; forward and back work- ed the \studes\ with shovels from early morning till late afternoon, with a short ]ay-off for grub. When the whistle blew, the grading was finished ready for the final touches to make it a model athletic field. Considerable \pep\ they have at Hobart, eh? Many tennis cham pions are now fighting in Europe. It is too early to learn the net results, but they'll get used to a different sort of racket, and there won't be any \love'' 1n that score. OUR BATTLE SONG. When that team of garnet hue Meets the boys in buff and blue, As in the Neolithic age Savage warfare will they wage; To the bitter end they'll fight And they'll yield 'em not a mite But they'll smear 'em, smear 'em, 'em o'er the field. Also we who cannot play Will do our very best that day Though it be a minor part smear We ·will have it in our heart, Right behind you all the way, Will we clean 'em? Well I say! We'll smear 'em, smear 'em, smear 'em o'er the field. Can't you hear that whistle blowin', Down the 1ield the pigskin goin', 'Leven eager huskies tearing, Shouting, :fighting, doing, daring, On the stands we rooters hoarse Backing up our team in force. We'll smear 'em, smear 'em, smear 'em o'er the field. THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. Foreword. The innocent bystander is no cynical crab. He is no misanthrope, no grouch, no kill- joy. Every once in a while, however, he gets an idea. Probably his ideas are all wrong. His chief fault is that he cannot bring himself to worship· the god of things as they are. He much prefers the god of things as they ought to be. Hence his ideas. He is not so narrow minded as to listen to only one side of a story. He craves dis- senters, provided those dissenters put down their thoughts on paper. So much then as a raison d'etre. Chirp the First. The college boy is fast becoming a relic of a dim distant past. The \sport\ whose .. · ;i · .. \ ,, ',,. ' ·.·. j' ., i . i· ( ~ G t 1 v f v . lj 0 lc t~ e it \i\ a: p p a1 h: il· 1 . 1 ne: I , , i · :' ha I' ·, -' ;. / I ·· ' of ,·,: .:~ ; :· r: ; no· . . ple .~ fill . ' I ten 1 . gtc. par or: fac1

ar .. · ;i · .. \ ,, ',,. ' ·.·. j' ., i . i· ;. ( THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 peculiarities once were the wearing of check- ered suits, fancy hat bands, loud socks, and whose sole ocupation seemed the shouting of his college yells to the edification of his adn1irers at home, is passing. speedily into the discard. !The college man is taking the pTace of the college boy; the college man, with man's habits and inan's ideas. Far from being the butt of opprobrium, the man who earns his way through college is held in higher esteem than our gentleman who opens his monthly letter from home and languidly picks up the check which has flut- tered to the floor. What have been some of the phases of this evolution? Student self-government in all of its forms. 7he college of twenty years ago would no more have thought of conducting an examination without an instructor being present than it would have voted to confer Phi Beta Kappa keys for prominence in athletics. And yet we have an honor sys- tem, as we call it, which works satisfactor .. ily, and has cotne to be taken as a matter of course by faculty and students. system would suffice? In fact, it would more than suffice. Let us n1ake no mention of the inconvenience in remembering and writing the present pledge. The spirit of the thing is wrong. As a matter of fact, the shorter pledge is technically even more inclusive than the longer. But that may or may not be the question. If we are to have an honor system, let us have one where the student is bound, not by mere formula, but by a consciousness of what the signific- ance of the honor system really means to him and to his college. This is the Innocent Bystander's first chirp. Does he hear any objections? THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. Of all grand words Of tongue or pen, The grandest are these, \We've won again.\ There's one thing that's not so high since the war began-alimony. CROSS-COUNTRY TEAM LOSES TO COLGATE. I .. Far be it from me to criticize any part of our honor system or honor court. But do \Ve carry out in essence what we mean to in spirit. Is an honor system an honor sys- tem which does not place restrictions at the very minim am? Let us consider the pledge necessary to make an examination valid. It runs something like this: \I pledge my honor that during this examination I have neither given nor received aid, and that I have reported or will report any violation of the honor system which comes under my not1ce.\ Compare it with the previous Last Saturday, the cross-country team was again unsuccessful, this time at Col- gate, on the opposing team's territory. The score was Colgate, 18; Union, 37. Colgate won the first four places. Peaslee was the first man to finish for Union, coming in fifth. The time, twenty-seven minutes eleven seconds is considered fast time for the up- hill course of four and three-quarters miles. The following is the order in which the run finished : Boughton, C.; Bernstrom, C.; Harriman, C. ; Froggatt, C. ; Peaslee, U. ; Scoby, U.; Newton, U.; Williams, C. This is the biggest score that Colgate has ever made against Union in a cross-country run . ,·,: .:~ ; _ , pledge: \I pledge my honor that I have ful- ,11 filled all the requirements of the honor sys- !}l tem.\ Which is the better? .. j . t Now a pledge of some sort is a psycholo- . , · .. · gical necessity. Is not the incogruity ap- parent, however, of having a pledge of five or six lines, when a mere statement of the fact that the student recognizes the honor The team showed up as well as could be expected considering the prepon<Jerance of green 111aterial and scarcity of veteran run- ners. We expect a good season next year, ' . ' . ·,c ;i' 'I ., .I ' ~ ~ . ' I !•. .,, :,'

i I ' ! ! i 20 THE CONCORDigNSIS but our hopes tor the £uture should not pre- vent us from present appreciation of the loyal and strenuous efforts of Captain New- ton and his band. Better luck next year! Ray, cross-country team! 1 ! Cornell has a training table for the squad of 16 cross-country men. Not a bad thing for Union to look forward to, but for the present * * * $ ? L'ALLEGRO. Hence, lathed mathematics, ()f Milnes and hated Newton born, 'Mongst roots and powers and logarithms dire. Seek out some attic dusty, \i\There spiders spin and flies are caught, And brooms are never seen. There, under beams and shingle roof, In dirt and mildew ever dwell. But con1e, thou language sweet and kind, Soft easer of an o'erworked 1nind, Come, thou tongue long dead and gone. In thee our lessons are ne'er too long. Thou tongue in which great Cicero Did write in days so long ago, Whose rythmic words, the poet Maro Dids't wield into the statliest measure Ever moulded by lips of man. Now haste thee Latin, and bring with thee, Thy figures, cases, joys to me, Modes and forms are somewhat hard, But love for thee, they can't retard, ~\fhv volumes ne'er to attic dusty Sh~ll be consigned, nor shall grow n1usty Bv long disuse from men who hate thee, With joy and love, I do salute thee. - H. L. C., '18. TELEGRAM FROM HOME. Son, your draft of October fifteenth gave father an awtul cold. Come at once. Let's all help uPete'' Starbuck work tor that clean slate. ELECTION DAY CONTESTS. Sophs Win Sweeping Victory. The sophomore class overwhelmed the freshmen in the election day track and field games, winning by the score of 58 to 17. Out of the seven events, the first year men won but two. Peterson, '17, and Miller, '17 1 I were the individual stars of the meet. The results o£ the events: 100 yard dash-Morrison, '17 ; Taylor, '18; Carr, '1 7. Time, 10 4-5 seconds. Running high jump-Miller, '17, and Pet- erson, '17, tied; Akin, '18. Height, 4 feet, 11 inches. 12 pound shot-Hay, '18; Miller, '17; Peterson, '17. Distance, 38 feet, 9 inches. One mile run-Stevens, '1 7 ; Gilman, '18 ; Moore, '1 7. Time, 5 minutes, 5 4-5 sec ... onds. Running broad jump-Moynahan, '17; Miller, '17; Peterson, '17. Distance, 18 feet, Relay-Won by 1917. Tug-of-war-Won by 1917. BLODGETT SPEAKS TO CHEMISTS~ Subject-Gas. The Chemical Society of Union College met Monday evening, November 2, in the chemical laboratory. A very interesting paper on \Illuminating Gas\ was read by Blodgett '15. He touched on the manu ... facture of water, coal and oil gas and cov ... ered the two latter in detail. The by-pro- ducts of gas manufacture were then enumerated and emphasized. Mr. Blodgett spoke authoritatively on the subject, having been employed by the Mo- hawk Gas Company -during the summer. A.fter the reading of the paper a lively discussion e~sued in which many members took part. The next meeting will be held Monday evening, November 16, at which Randles '16 will read a paper on ''The Uses and Manu- facture of Cement.\

en 8; 7• ' 8; 7 • ' U\' v- o- o- ly rs I. t ·,. i· I I I t· ( ·~ i( ·I' ·~ I~ 1:· \'• 1,\:, If you want anything from QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Anytime Hasty Messenge,.s Deliver all Purchases Steefel Broa. ALBANY, N. Y. -IF- you feel that a custom tailor is the only man that can put true distinction into your garments-you are laboring under the wrong impression. If you think that a custom tailor is the only man that can give you an exclusive pattern and weave---once again you're wrong. And if you think that a custom tailor can give you nearly as much value as \Steefel's\ can-we're afraid you'·re wrong again. If your thoughts run in the above channel, drop in and .see us-and we'll put you right. Suits and Overcoats $10 to $60. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. All the Latest Novelties in WALL PAPER AND DECORATIONS Sun 5 & lOc Wall Paper Store ·411 STATE STREET~ Over Woolworth\s. 'Phone 4454- J. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. PROCTOR'S \THEA TR:E BEAUTIFUL\ VAUDEVILL:E-PHOTOPLA YS Every afternoon & Evening 1 to 5 6:45 to II SUNDAYS: Feature Pictures 2 to 5 Special Music 7 to 10:30 YOUNG MEN!· Step Into a Pair of Our SURE-FIT Shoes Here we picture two of the newest lasts for young men who keep apace wlth the shoe fashions. Correct for eollege, school or business. Natty enough for dress wear. Values like these are only possible in a metropolitan store like Patton & Hall's. PATTON & HALL t 245 STATE ST. Below the Brtdse. ' ., i: ; !' i . '! l: '•i .. I 'I' ,, ; \1 . ' 'I . . ,,

More College News IN THE Read It Every Day GAZETTE 5 FOR YOUR DEN 5 Beautiful College Pennants · Yale and Hardvard, Each 9 in. x 24 in · Princeton, Cornell, Michigan, Each 7 in. x 21 in. 4-PENN ANTS. SIZE 12x30-4 · Any Leading Colleges of Your Selection : AU of our best quality, in their proper colors, with colored emblents. Either assortment, for limited time sent postpaid for 50 cents and five stamps to cover shipping costs. Write us for prices before placing orders for felt novelties of all kinds. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. Nott Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258-J. L. SCHWARTZ NIEWS ROOM Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. There is no Music Like Giocia' s Orchestra 302: Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. The Schenectady Clothing Co. Clothing for College Men Stein-Bloch and Hickey-Freeman Suits and 'Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward Full - Dress Acceessories Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at all times The Schenectady Clothing Co. 313-315 State Street Telephone 91-W The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET. A Complete Department Food Store. The Best in Everything for the Table at the Lowest Cash Prices. QUICK, ACTIVE SERVICE ED, THE THE BARBER SHOP FOR Cor. State and Centre ' Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store BARBER UNION MEN I. LEVINE Merchant Tailor, 107 Jay Street. Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. Favored by the College Boys. ] D A. H. R. F Only til 442 S· \U s~ I Perio Catc tions Bell '1 Su Custc San ita . pa1 870 Ec: Cigar St. I Presc

. '. '~ ' ' ~ '' i :' BeDinger Paint Co. !I PA lNTS, OJ L·S Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishea 212 So. Centre St. When the leaves Begin to fall Walk-Over Shoes Are Best ·Of all. LET YOUR.NEXT PAIR BE Walk-Overs. . 407 State Street,. Schenectady A R Z • . ' o· h furnished music at Union College 1905 ' . . Ita s rc estra 'o6, 'o7, 'o8, 'og, 'Io, .II, '12 '13 & , 14 Best Dance Music in the Wo·rld g~~·tt~~!~!::~~e~ 48 ~!e Better for Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., Albany TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y . \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students R. Wirth, Union '18 Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. 13!5 NOTT TERRACE ····-·----------· Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $1·8 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Phannacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M~READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620-W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street E yes Tested and Gl111es Fitted THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography \Watch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works ~ 116 Jay Street. ' ,. j 1: i I, I i: il 1! ' j; \ 'i \ •I 1 '

The Comradeship of ''Bull'' Durham There is something about ripe, mellow \Bull'' Durham Tobacco that appeals to clean-cut manhood the world over. Wherever two \Bull\ Durham smokers meet, each recognizes in the other a man to his own liking, a comrade in the world-wide brotherhood of \the M k . ,. a 1ngs. GENUINE ··BuLL DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO ( Enougla lor forty laantl-matle cigarette• in each S-cent •ack) Millions of experienced smokers find the cigarettes they roll for themselves from pure, ripe \Bull. Durham tobacco better suited to their taste and more satisfactory than any they buy ready-made. The rich, fresh fragrance and smooth, mellow flavor of \Bull •• Dur- ham hand ... made cigarettes af ... ford healthful enjoyment and lasting satisfaction. Get the •• Makinge •• today and learn to Aak 'or FREE 6ook ol \paper•'' with each Sc aack •• II •• ro yourown. FREE An illustrated booklet showin~r how to \Roll Your Own,\ and a Book of cigarette papers. will both be mailed, /ree, to any address in United Statea on poetal request. THE .AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY Addreas inquiry for Ere~ Booklet to \Bull .. Dul'ham, DUrham, N.C., Room 1298. ;.\.'- ., }. ! ·. ; . ' \ s Edwi 7271' 206 s 132-t

' f:~.l : ~' y : \ ' T.HE U·NION of a Sophomore or Freshman with a few dolars which will stay by him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savinlls Bank COR. STATB AND CL'INTON The Edison American Plan All Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 Edwin Clute, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. • L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate That is Right, Reasonable and On Time Schenectady Art Press J. H. Como, Prop. 206 So. Centre St. 2 doors from State BilUam !Ctrkpatridt MEN'S SHOP 132-134 Fulton St. New York City 43 FELLOWS can write 24 LETTERS By purchasing our embossed stationery at 25c PER BOX The Gleason Book Co. 104 Jay Street Gleason Building \On your W&7' to the post office\ WATERS \The Right Tailor with the Right Prices\ Of course we do CLEANING and Press- ing. Let us call for your work. 463 STATE St. up Stairs SCHENECTADY, N. Y. TELEPHONE 1441-J Sweaters and Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union Arthur Mfg Co. LowVille, N.Y. \ 1: I I• li I' i \ I 1 l I 1: i! '· I! ·: . ' l : p I ·' ' ,: i ' I j ,j ( !

Portraits .,.,_ Your Inspection of our P.roduct Cordially Invited THe STVDIO OP OVER PATTON & HALL The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354- W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. Just Right · THE SHOE OF A GENTLEMAN S4.5~Q. TO $7.00 Metropolitan Styles -*' Expert Fittings Geissler & Ryan NEAR STATE ON JAY. P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specia:lty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL Shoes THE LEWIS DINNING ROOM Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit pertectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street. Near State 154 BARRETT ST., near State Meals, Table de Hote Breakfast 6:00 A. M. Luncheon 11:30 A. M. Dinner 5:00 P. M. Sunday Breakfast 8:00 A. M. Dinner 12:00 M. Single Meals 30c Sunday Dinner SOc 20 MEAL CARD $5.00 Home cooked meals prepared of the best of things to eat, cooked and served in a clean and J sanitary manner. Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street li .. ,- .. :. Tele ~ RepreE Snapp ll 9 Pr The: A Rep Hall Teleph Special 436 Telepl 423 Ut --- c 301 an 154 )a

1,:. 'l! ,- .. :. Stoll's Hofbrauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street!' Schenectady, N. Y~ Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices .. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week .. Telephone 1938. MAX NOWA, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. United Tailoring· Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at · less than \Ready-Made\ Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. H. J. SCHWARTZ, Manager. 9 Proctor's Arcade, W edgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. · 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street,\ Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. ----·--------------------------- C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Taxicab Service .co. Phone 4489. HE IT RAINS . . . IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS High Grade Laundry get the KILLIP QUALITY LAUNDRY 719 STATE STREET, 'Phone 759 Schenectady, N. Y. QUALITY AND SATISFACT!ON combined makes clear the reason why SPALD- ING'S are outfitters to champions whose im- plements must be invariably right. The Spald- ing Trade Mark represents years of leadership in the manufacture of athletic equipment. A G S ld • & B 126-128 Nassau Street • • pau lng fOS. 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalogue S. A. Hamilton GROCER 841 Union St. Phone 2540 MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch ' + lS CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY 4 Jay Street, ''On your WiY to the Post Office\ i ~ ' I •, I . f I . ' '! . 'I .. \ , . '

~pyright Bart Schaffner & Mara To A College Man Ill The Name Hart, Schaffner & Marx Means Good Clothes We Sell Them AU 4 F awsw • LLLI&ALiii&J•&Mmc xa-... But don't let us give you the impression that Clothes are all that we sell. Hats, Shirts, Sweaters, Underwear, Neckwear, Hose, Collars, and all the little things that fellows need to wear are here-new with us the minute they are new to the world. This is a good place to spend all of your clothes and outfitting money. 240-44 State Street Schenectady Schenectady ~ Art Press

...... . ....... \\ ... - ·- . . . . , .. .•. . ~ . .. . . ,-. \.. ... .... , .. .._.. . ., ..... ~.,-- ., .. - . .. . ... -·~·.. . .. _ -- ·- .... UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Ceur~es leading to tlte degree of A.. B. _CL.ASSICAL ~OURSE A.-Greek is required for ad- n11ssxon to thts course. French and Gennan are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. Cr,ASSICAL CoURSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required !O study q.r~ek for two years. Proficiency in Latin :as prerequ1s1te. 2. Course leading to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree o:f B. s. Scn;NTIFIC CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course lea(ling to the deg·ree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education comprising n1athematics, the sciences, the funda~ mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern lang11ages. SANI'l'ARY ENGINEERING CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Courses leading to A'radu.ate degrees. CouRsE LEADING To DEGREE OI<.. M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work JOSEPH NUTTALL ·Caterer Office 410 Union St. Phone 2845 Special Teas and Coffees for Frats CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE oF M. S. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING TO DEGREE OF PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for adnlis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other in formation address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac~ tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to= WILLIS G. TucKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA]. PARKER, J. NEW'tON FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years ; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $IIO. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. VVATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEP.ARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Ye ALFRI~D B. Hues'tED} Secretary, ''Everything for the College Man except Exom1'' GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTSo BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Middle Section, So. College Phone 1472-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate ,,:· .' ,. I' .. · !' I f· .· f · .. I i ' I' [. ·. I , I . · .. ~- ~- ' ; '' '. ·~' ... 1' ;.\ ,·} ' G La: , • .._ .... \' ......... z:;a:::.

'' '. ·~' } ''• . ,' ,1 · ... 1' ;.\ TRADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LA TEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known where-ver Good Shoea are worn. All styles and leathera LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WALL STS. The Cain's Leading exponents of Modern Dancing in Schenectady and Vicin· ity. New Pupils received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9 p. m. Pri- vate Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phone 2710-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS f~9ia: 3 ~:;:i CompanY EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER Largest ElectFical Manuf~cturer in the world 3759 ... . ' \ ~ . . ... -. .. . -·~--- ., . - - . .. -- .... ~ - .. E. & W. Shirts and Collars, F ownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opet;,a and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men .

I ! l l ! I l i l ! If yo,u don't want to meet your double on the street why not buy a BABBITT C'ONFINED SUIT or OVERCOAT? We are sol,e agents in this tri-city territory for ROGERS-PEET CO'S. and the ~'FRANKEL-FIFTEEN'' Hand Tailored Clothes Come in and see them, the visit will repay you Babbitt & Co. \Albany's Greatest Clothiers and Furriers'' 451-453 BROADWAY THE PAST AND PRESENT . Keep abreast with the times. We .are _not living in the stage-coach decade, at wh1ch time the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as ollie did in by-gone days. Neither would you hav- ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 438 State Street Opposit~ Jay Street Free Order Service Telephone 3456 H . . ' · 1gg10S ( Drawinj Inka I Eternal W ritin~ Ink En~roasin~ Ink J Taurine Mucilage i Photo Mounter Paat~ I Drawinl! Board Paate I Liquid Paate l 0 ffice Paate V el!etable Gluea, etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & .CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N.Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 3 r Steuben Street, . '·' ' : •. ,<I .... \ ,, \.-.· .A ·.:t:l '•' ,'. ' . ,; ~tt ;{• ·.;:

. , , .. '· ' • ,!' b ·,, \.-.· '· ····;~~~ . '' ·• _ .... 'i' . ',;• ~tt :{' Quick on the Trigger With a Snap-Shot Eye T HE crack trapshooter has to have steady nerves and muscles .i absolutely under control- always ready to swing his gun into place and bring down his clay pigeon. This means trained, not to the minute, but to the split-second. We present the names of some famous crack shots. They like to · smoke, but take no chances on a tobacco that might ''throw them off.'' They use Tuxedo because it is mild, relaxing, steadying- strictly pure . GEORGE W.MAXWELL leading .trapshooter • 'I find complete enjoy- ment in Tuxedo. It's a nerve • :steadier and a surefire, slow- . l. h ,. ourning to acco. ~~~ - . - TOM A. MARSHALL famous crack shot The Perfect Tohacco for Pipe and Cigarette. ''Tuxedo tohacco is un- questionahly the acme of T d . d f J h perfection; smok,ing Tuxedo u X e 0 1 s rna e 0 on y t e makes life hetter Worth ·finest, choicest, selected leaves of living.·· perfectly aged Burley tobacco. It ..Zf!!?':/~---0,~,~~~~\'~ is made by the original ''Tuxedo Process\ which removes every trace of bite and sting and develops all the wonderful mildness, fragrance and flavor of the Burley Leaf in a way that no other brand of tobacco has ever successfully imitated. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenient pouch, 5 Famous green tin, I o in 11 e 'I' -I in e d with C with gold lettering, C moisture-proof paper curved to fit pocket In Glas• Humidor•. SOc and 90c FREE Send us 2 cents in stamps for :Postage and we will mail you prepaid a souvenir tin of TUXEDO tobacco to any point in the United States. Address THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY Room 1299 III Fifth Avenue New York ........ ,. FRED GILBERT celebrated trapshooter u The coolest, most fra- grant tohacco to my expe- rience- Tuxedo. Lead$ in mildness and purity.'' ~~

Say Fellows: Bring in your laundry and save money Note these Prices: Shirts all Kinds ...•................. 10c Collars .............................. 2c . Union Suits . . . . . . . ..............•. lOc Underwear, Night Shirts and Pajamas. . . . ........... 6c each Hose ......•... ~ • . • . i •••••• ~ .. 3c per pair Handkerchiets ....... I •••••••••••••••• 2c Barrow's Hand Laundry 738 State Street· We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Cotrell and Leonard ALBANY, N. Y. liiiiiiiiii;;;;;;:::;::;;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii1 Makera of Caps, Gowns and Hoods To tho American Colleges and Univeraitie~. from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Claaa contracta a apecialty UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited ... I The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street To Cure Cold BUY A GAS HEATER MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' Art &tnrt No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady, N. Y. I \<ill lJ , -.I f \'. t.A 11 · <)t!PI'\\'Y Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 467 State Stte~t, Schenectady, N. Y. •.l. .I J .f . . .. i •I ·-·t ' .. ' . I> . ,, ' ·-~ ,,-' ,·,1·. •: }, I ]

,·,1·. •: : ,'/, 1.. }, I •' ( . '•., • jr i .. ' / ._1 l. J .f . ' .. i ._':; ' . ,. ' . I> .. ,, '. - . ·~ { Clothing Furnishings KEELER.'S . . ~ Hats ·-......__EUROPEAN-- HOTEL We're ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? The newest and best in each department. tJ Wells & Coverly TROY ulf It's Made of Rubber We Have It\ Iii Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires DJ Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores · CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRES}{ STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO PEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON and Cabaret at 9 P. M. Broadway and Maiden lane Albany, N. Y GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. · Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. 'Twentywfive Private Dining Rooms Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN· BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at aU times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Fine Imported and Domestic Woolens Telephone 2323- J GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter,: Etc. . ' ..... Lyon's 13 McCLEt~LAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. Ferry Street Creamery 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head/'

Ready to Wear I and Custom I STYLISH C.LOTHES :J Comparison is the I • Lever That Turns · Trade Our Way Made • FOR YOUNG MEN . . This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, superiority of workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step· in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to all College Student is yours for the asking. 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases ~of $10 or over if this ad is presented at the time of purchase. 503 • 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. W m'. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360- W I AM YOU:R NEAREST-SHOEMAKER N.Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair :Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: Men's soles, sewed ________ 7Sc I..,~adies' soles, nailed ________ 40c I~adies' soles, sewed _______ 60c l\1en's Heels _______________ 25c Men's soles, nailed ____ so to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Full RUBBER SOLES ________________________ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 WHITE, 229 State Street CARL DANNA, Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S Collelle Rel)re•entative 1908 1914 1915 ROW SHIRTS are in every style suitable for city or CC?untry, frolic or function. The colors are fast, the styles smart and right-the patterns correct-insist on the label. $1.50 and up Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. Makers Let's Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 298-W. 722 Eastern Ave. ~ .. ( } '< .. · ' . ;'! •. 1' •' : i' •, I ·, •. l ; - v - - s ti la C( fe te yc: tVI b) sil lir cr; N. to th: tac an . mt SC< sis we Ur brc fer bn

f ' ···,. } '. .. ' . :; •. ,. . . '. j j r I 1. • ~ '. - j .-· l,-• . )· ' t ' ! ; :: 1' ;· : ) I ' ; The Concordiensis VOL. 38 NOVEMBER 12, 1914 NO.6 SEVEN STRAIGHT IS PRESENT RECORD. Lucky Seventh Proves Hard Victory. _ The game, which renewed athletic rela- tions with New York University after a lapse of several years, was Union's seventh consecutive victory this year, with no de- feat. A kick from placement .in the first quar- ter by Anderson, a substitute, from the 25- yard line, made Union's first score, and a twenty-five yard run through a broken field by Girling in the last quarter was respon- sible for the remainder o£ the points. In the last quarter a series of crushing line plunges by Roof, Girling and Rose- crans carried the ball through the crumbling N. Y. U. defence from .Union's 25-yard line to New York's 20-yard line. Then on the third down Girting sn1ashed his way through tackle, trickled by the secondary defence, and sped over the goal for a touchdown. He missed the kick for goaL New York University's best chances to score came in the second quarter. By con· sistent line plunging Captain Huntley's men worked the ball to within ten yards of Union's goal twice, but each time the Garnet braced and prevented the heavy Violet of- fence from scoring. The game developed into a series of heart- breaking advances down the field. Neither line seemed able to stop the opposing back· field, and frequent gains of from ten to fifteen yards were made on line plunges. First downs were frequent, and there was little recourse to ·open football, except on two occasions, when short forward passes were successfully made by New York University. The New York team used double and triple passes from regular £ormation from time to time with little success, while the on-side kick play, the fame of which had reached Schenectady, proved a gain for Union rather than for her opponents. ~he loss of Cusack,New York University's star guard, who did not make the trip, evid- ently crippled the team. Union started with five regulars on the sideline. . Beaver and Rosecrans were the only backfield men who were in the game at the first kick-off, while Price and Jackson, guards, were watching from th te bench. It was Union's ability to add the nnishing wallop that defeated the down-state team. The ball was in New York University,~ hands oftener and for longer periods, but when Union's goal was threatened her de- fence was impregnable. Throughout the game Girting had the best of the punting and Union excelled New York University in run- ning back punts. The cloudy weather, which tur.ned to rain during the gatne, did not deter a large crowd from watching the home team defeat its old

lO THE CO:N·CORDIENSIS rivals. Seats and standing room along the sides of Alexander Field were at a premiu1n, and n1any sought refuge during the drizzle on the veranda of the new gymnasium. Be- tween the halves the student body, led by the college band, paraded. Hokerk, of Union, kicked off to start the game. Bernstein recovered the ball and made ten yards before Anderson tackled him. Sokolower, Huntley and McNally seem- ed to find Union's line paper, and made three first downs for a total of nearly forty yards before the Garnet braced. Then Union held for downs, and on the next play Rosecrans made ten yards. Anoth- er line plunge by Anderson gained ten yards ·more. Then N. Y. U. held, and Union was forced to kick. · Carlough went in for Somers. N. Y. U. tnade two first downs, and it was Union's ball on a free fumble in the middle of the field. Thirty yards were gained on six plays. The ball was on N.Y. U.'s 25-yard line when Beaver, at quarterback, signalled for a place kick and Anderson booted the ball over the posts. N. Y. U. kicked off to Union, and an ex- change of punts left the ball on Union's 40- yard line at the end of the quarter, with N. Y. U. in possession. Throughout the second quarter N. Y. U. was on the offensive most of the time. Two first downs put the ball on Union's 10-yard line, but the Garnet held and Rosecrans kicked out of danger. Once more, on a series of fake kick formations and a forward pass, N. Y. U. advanced, but was penalized fifteen yards for holding. Hokerk intercepted a forward pass, but \vas knocked out when tackled. Gardner tpok his place, Vroman went in for Gardner and Girling for Anderson. The game see- sawed up and down the middle of the field till the end of the quarter. In the second half Union once more as- sumed the offensive. Girling made consist- en t gains through the line, as did Mudge and Rosecrans. N.Y. U. seemed unable to stop the terrific battering, but penalties for off- s1de and a costly fumble did the work. The tide of battle turned and Huntley dove through Union's line t\vice for large gains. A gradual advance brought the ball to Union's 15 yard line just as the whistle blew. Union stiffened in the fourth quarter and N. Y. U. resorted to an on-side kick, which Girling intercepted and ran back twenty-five yards. Then began the advance which scored lJnion's touchdown. Roof, who had taken Mudge's place at fullback, ploughed through time after tin1e for long gains. Girting and Rosecrans tore up N. Y. U.'s line like paper. Then came Girling's touchdown, and the score was 9 to 0. In the remaining four minutes N. Y. U. could do nothing. The line-up follows : UNION (9) N. Y. U. (0) Starbuck (Capt.) -------------- Waldman left end Wood --------------------------- Weiner left tackle Gardner --------------------- Magemeyer left guard I!okerk ---------------------- Raschbaum center Rockwell ------------------------- House right guard Jenkins -------------------------- Somers right tackle Aikins ------------------------ McKenzie right end Beaver------------------ Huntley (Capt.) quarterback Anderson ----------------------- MeN ally left halfback Mudge ------------------------ Bernstein right halfback Rosecrans --------------------- Sokolower fullback Touchdovvn-Girling. Goal from place- nlent-Anderson. Substitutes-N. Y. U., r ,, 1 ; .... i 1. I. ' r~ . ·l \ k•· 4 t :I ·, [ ·, i\' l I· 1 .,., ? ,. '·:, ' . \ · .. :!{ '·1.-· i. '-\·. i c c: \'-' b fc fc fc :F \i t1 ( ( e; H\ B B fr~ '8: lo· th M th to wl T< m: wl ag ge lis: th; Pe ..

; .... i 1. 1, ' r~ l \ ·.1 k•· 4 t :I ·, 1 ·, '·~ i\' l I· 1 ' ' \ ',• :!{ ::1.-. i. '-\·. i THE CONC;ORDIENSIS 11 Catlough for Somers, Schuck for Sokolower, Sokoiliower for Carlough, Sultzer for Rasch- baum; Union, Girling for Anderson, Jackson for Rockwell, Gardner for Hokerk, Vroman for Gardner, Hokerk for Gardner, Gardner for Vroman, Alpert for Gardner, Gardner for IIokerk, Roof for Mudge, Rockwell for \Vood, Vroman for Jackson. Referee-Wat- tus, of Syracuse. Un1pire-Williams, of Oberlin. Head linesman- Starbuck, of Union. Time of periods-· Fifteen minutes each. The Punch Bowl sez: \I'm going to turn you down,\ she said; He ~ad an awful fright. But she didn't mean what he thought she meant, For she meant the parlor light. And we venture to add: But this insulted Sir Parlor Light And he soon began to pout, So, without a sound of a step or a word, I-Ie wrathfully went out. SEEMS TO BE AND IS. We received a letter a short time ago from an alun1nus, Mr. Edward P. Towne, '88, of Duluth, Minnesota, in which this fel- low Unionite calls our attention to the fact that Duluth is in Minnesota rather than in Michigan. We are extremely sorry to have thus misplaced Duluth and will now attempt to straighten the matter out with all in whose minds this typographical (Mr. Towne cals it geopaphical) error may have made any impression. Mr. Towne further says: \The same controversy as to the state wherein Duluth is situated, arose two years ago in the Yale News and after it was sug- ~ested that a chair of geography be estab- hshed at the university, the paper conceded that Duluth was in the state of Minnesota. Perhaps a like chair at Union is needed.\ After much deliberation the Concor- diensis has decided to make the same con- cession as did our contemporary. .FROM OUR WAR CORRESPONDENT. A Communication. Condemned by the International Board of Censors. Jinfizzle, November 1.-· You have in all likelihood been receiving a great number of reports of this 1i ttle scrap over here through the daily papers, et cetera. Well they're all wrong. Everything that you may or may not hear concerning the war is absolutely false. You should probably be interested in knowing whether the Germans or the Allies have the advantage up to date. ·well that's a hard ·question. The Germans say they have it and the Allies claim they have it. It is not a question as to which statement is the nearer true but rather which is the least unreliable. As for my personal opinion, as I stated before, they're all wrong. However, I may be able to en- lighten you as to which side has taken the greater number of prisoners. To this ques- tion I should certainly answer, \Yes they have.\ Just as the oracle once cautiously announced that \If they fight with all their tnight, they will win,\ so now for the bene- fit of my countrymen in general, I will say that they are certainly winning. Yours truly, w. c. Don't miss the campus meeting tomorrow night at 7:15. DEBATING SOCIETIES ACTIVELY ENGAGED. Debating activity in the two rival socie .. ties is running high as the season advances. Both A-delphic and Philomathean are work ... ing hard in preparing their n1embers for final try-outs for the annual Allison-Foote con .. test. The question for the inter-society de· bate this year has not yet been agreed upon,

12 'TBE CONCORD1ENS1S but in all probability it will be that which is proposed by Cornell for the ;varsity;s de- bate with that college. As has been cus- tonlary in past years, the winner of Allison- Foote will be .Union's representative team ior the inter-collegiate schedule during the winter. An action ot note on the part ot the so-- cieties this season is the open invitation to members o£ the rival organizations to be present at the weekly meetings. This is an innovation and will undoubtedly help greatly in increasing the friendly feeling between the two societies. Philon1athean: The week's regular de- bate will be held in Room 13, Washburn Hall, at 7 :1.5 Tuesday evening, November 10. The question for debate will be, Re- solved: \That J. D. Rockefeller was justi- fied in his action in the Colorado mine situa ... tion.\ The negative will be upheld by Jacobs '16, Knight '17; for the af~irmative, E. Hummer '16 and Chapman '1 7. Adelphic: 1'he meeting scheduled for November 2 postponed to Friday, Novem- ber 6, at 4 :30 P. M. There will be a gen- eral discussion of the European war situa- tion. A meteing o£ the constitutional con- vention is set tor Tuesday, November 10, at 4:30 o'clock. The committee on revis- ing will report and there will follow a dis- cussion of the measures proposed and action on these measures. STRUGGLE FOR SUPREMACY TO BE HARD ONE. Hamilton Coming Down Strong. Word reaches us · from Clinton that strenuous preparations are being made for Saturday's game. College rallies have been held at which the main speeches dealt with the impending struggle with the Blue and Buff's rivals. \Let every man do his share,'' is the slogan which brings the team to Sche- nectady. And Old Union can be perfectly sure that every man will do his shate, be- cause that's part of the Hamilton tradition, Hamilton played no game last Saturday, which has been their custom £or at least two years. Instead the team journeyed to Syra- cuse to see the Syracuse-Rutgers game, and to draw therefrom whatever inspiration might accrue. The Saturday previous St6 I1a\\vrence vvas beaten by a score of 26 to 6. Comparing this with Union;s score with the same team-· 20 to 0-there is little to chose. Hamilton showed a bit more of the scoring punch but also displayed looser de.., fense. Captain Laforce, Pope and Keddy con1pose a trio of fast backs whose ability to run through a broken field has been show11 in recent games. It is noticeable that Ham- ilton placed great confidence, and with full success, upon the forward pass in the gan1e with St. Lawrenc·e. The contest Saturday carries with it not only the factor of personal supremacy be- tween the two colleges but determines as well the championship of the N. Y. S. I. A. tJ. League. The league is composed o£ Hatnilton, Hobart, St. Lawrence and Uniond Both Hamilton and l.fnion have defeated Hobart and St. Lawrence, which leaves the claim for the pennant dependent upon Sat- urday,s game. Last year though Union was defeated by Hamilton, she still won the pen- nant as Hamilton succumbed to St. Law- rence and tied Hobart, while Union beat both teams. Hamilton, after getting o££ to a poor start which may be forgiven her since her first opponent was Syracuse, has steadily im- proved. The Blue and Buff was beaten by Syracuse, N. Y. U., and R. P. I. while she defeated Hobart and St. Lawrence by larger scores than those inflicted by the Garnet. I-Iowever the fact that Union has defeated both R. P. I. and New York .University by decisive scores leaves the weight of dope slightly in favor o£ the Schenectady team. In spite of the seven consecutive victories Union will have to put up a strong-in fact ~ ' ,• . (' i ,, I I:> ~~ ; J I r f 'l ; .. .: f,' I .· .. r.'· } I : r j I ! 1''·, .:·.:: ,,.,- :--• ·.··- i ' I I l r' .Jif' I . l l ! ( , ( t ) ] ,, 0 c '\i v b a . 1~ 1 20 U: on he

'' i ' I I I I r\ I l THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 about her best-game to win Saturday, for Hamitton has been improving steadily and rested Saturday while Union played a grueHing game. {_Jnion expects a large delegation to come down from Clinton and preparations are being n1ade to fete them as gayly as thev feted the boys from Schenectady last ..; year. Those who were there realize that Hamilton sets a stiff pace both in football and after football. And while Schenectady can not present all the attractions of Utica, we predict that the town will be waiting vvi th gates wide. If we can't send then1 hon1e happy at least let's send them home as happy as we can. The full record of Hamilton-Union games is as follows: 1890-· Union, 26; Hamilton, 10. Union, 16; Hamilton, 4. 1891-I-Iamil ton, 14; Union, 6. 1892-U nion, 12 ; Hamilton, 0. 1893-Union, 34; Hamilton, 0. 1894-Union, 9~6; Hamilton, 0. 1897-Union, 4; Hamilton, 4:. 1898-Hamilton, 17; Union, 10. 1899-Hamilton, 0; Union, 0. 1902-Hamilton, 31 ; Union, 0. 1903-Hamilton, 28 ; Union, 0. 1904:-Hamilton, 5; Union, 0. 1905-Hamilton, 17 ; Union, 0. 190'l-Hamilton, 6; Union, 0. 1908-Union, 18; Hamilton, 6. 1909-Union, 0; Hamilton, 0. 1910-Union, 0; Hamilton, 0. 1911-Hamilton, 19; Union, 0. 1912-Union, 15; Hamilton, 12. 1913-Hamilton, 12; Union, 0. The above tabulation shows that in the 20 games played, Hamilton has won 9, Union has won '( and 4 have been ties. ELECTRIC SHIP PROPULSION. Dr. :Berg gave a very interesting lecture ~n Monday evening, November 2, in which e sho,ved the marked advantages of pro- pelHng ships by electricity, instead of by either a reciprocating engine or a steam turbine directly connected to the propeller shafts. In the electric transmission, since the turbine drives a dynamo which in turn sup- plies current to a specially designed electric motor that is directly connected to the pro- pellor shaft, the speeds are as easily regul- ated and controlled as in an electric car. Each unit of the installation operates at its maximum efficiency. Dr. Berg illustrated his lecture with many interesting lantern slides dealing with large installations the General Electric Company has made in ocean vessels and by compara- tive results on the naval colliers, \Jupiter/' \Neptune and \Cyclops\ showed the great superiority of this form of ship propulsion. OUR CHALLENGE. Come on, come on, Old Buff and Blue! Our men for battle long; Right well you may lament this day, Our Garnet ranks are strong. Bring all your hoarded skill and strength, Drive on with power and vim, No \sho\r\ of might shall put to flight Our warriors st~ong and grim. Our seven foes who went before Are vanquised to our glory, And Hamil ton ere set of sun, Shall be the eighth in story. Hin story,\ shall you live alone, Your name and your endeavor, For with a puff, Old Blue and Buff, \V e'll blow you up forever. ])oc. Stoller : \Don't you know what kind of a rock that it?\ Stude (on geology expeditioii) : '~No doc- tor.\ Doc: uWell you must be stone blind.\

14 THE CONCOR:DIEN:SIS THE CONCORDIENSlS A Literary and Ne~s Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. }. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Donald A. Coulter, '15, 3 Regent Street ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, '15 Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood Boulevard ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, '16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 REPORTERS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Karl E. Agan, '15, Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Howard A. Glenn, Assistant Business Manager, Kappa Alpha Lodge. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street Schenectady, N.Y. LET US HEAR FROM YOU From time to time there appear articles in the Concordiensis which some people don't like. If those who disagree with these articles would only come forward with a little argument it might help somewhat to- ward putting everything on the Hill to rights. No organization is perfect nor can it hope to be so, but those of us who are interested in Union College as a whole should strive to make it as near perfect as possible. For instance, on page nineteen of num- ber 2, of the present volume of the Concor- diensis there appears an article labeled ''Join the Y. M. C. A.\ We know as an absolute fact that there are many men in college who disagree entirely with the sentiments ex- pressed therein and wonder why they have shown no \come back\ on the subject. Haven't you any \pep\? If you have, why don't you show a little of it? We will give your argument fair play in the columns of this paper, which belongs as much to you as it does to any individual. Perhaps you consider the article foolish or beneath your notice. If so we wish to take this occasion '· to remind you that your opinions may not be any better than those of your honorable op- pontent, who has already committed his side of the question to us for publication. If you think his communication is unsound, let us hear you say so or we may consider that you have no opinion on the matter which indeed is a sad predicament for any man to be in. The \Innocent Bystander\ contributed his first chirp to our fifth number of the present volume. It appears on page eighteen and on reading it you will find that he evidently doesn't like the length of the present exam- ination pledge. If those who have supervi- sion over this matter think that the ' 4 lnno- cent Bystander,\ who proclaims himself \no crab,\ is wrong, why don't you tell him so? If he's right, why don't you bring about the necessary correction ? We are trying to assist in the approach to perfection of the organization known as Union Colege. If you think you can help, let us know; if you think we're wrongJ tell us about it, but while remembering that we are far from infalible, don't forget that you yourself may, on some slight occasions, be son1ewhat in the wrong. Let us hear from you. '· ) (1 i ·; I ' ! ,, . ' ! . ·.· I ' I . :- ',: 1 t 1 1 r r n g 11 h d tc a, I\ v n u: . lS . lS tr.

I . > '> I ' I f ;.• ' I 'i, '.1 . :- ',: '·:!'_ THE CON·CORDIENSIS 15 COME THROUGH. Sad as it may seem to some of our cul- d d that W . e should resort to a ture ,· rea ers .. slang expression when deciding upon a title for an article, which is supposed to be ser- ious, nevertheless, we must admit that it is the only expression which fits the occasion for this editorial Assuming that our apology is acc·epted, we will now proceed to tell the student body a few things which it may not know concerning itself up to date. In the first place we will have to grant that there are almost four hundred men in Union College whose hearts are in the right place with respect to the team whose record of seven straight deserves from us more credit than we will ever be able to give. The lung-power exhibited on Alexander Field last Saturday places this statement in the realm of such high probability that one may readily assume that it is true with very little danger of bringing about any argu- nlent. In other words, the cheering was good, excellent, great! Maybe there's a little room for improvement yet, but we hope that this will be all filled up by Satur- day. However, allow us the privilege of regis- tering one good, long, strenuous kick against the singing which took place at the N. Y. U. game. Frankly, it was rotten. Why? Why was it rotten? Because we have no voices? No. Because we have no spirit? No. why, then? Why was it rotten? Why did it sound like the half hearted song of an untrained glee club minus a leader? There is one and only one reason why-lack of practice. The voices are there, the spirit is there, everything is there that ought to be there except the knowledge of execution, and before we can put it there, some one has to ''co1ne through.\ How are you going to do it? You're going to do it by coming around to that mas5 meeting in the chapel tomorrow night. Last Friday one hundred and fifty of the faith- ful few were there. Among other things there came up the question of changing the singing of Alma Mater back to the way in which it was originally sung-slower and with a couple of slight changes from the present customary way. This was explain- ed in full and those present were instruct- ed and drilled until they became perfect. What good did it do Saturday when we who were present had about two hundred and fifty \absentees\ to sing against? Are we going to let Hamilton sing us off our feet Saturday for the want of a little practice? Are we? They'll do it, fellows, if you give them half a chance. Our advice is, don't give them anything that has the slightest appearance of any portion of a chance. Give them a good time, give them your hospitality, give them anything else you want to give them, but don't, whatever you do, give them a chance to beat us at anything Saturday. What's the prescription for the preven- tion? Simply this-come around to that campus meting tomororw night and bring with you all that you possess in the line of singing aparatus and fellow students and we'll have a get-together that can's be beat. Before we can do this, there are about two hundred and fifty fellows who will have to \come through\-let's see you come . Prof.-Can you name a liquid which won't freeze? Stewed-Hot water, sir.-Widow.

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS Y. M. C. A. NEWS. Tuesday afternoon J. U. Escobar, Latin l\n1erican Y. M. C. A. secretary, arrived at Union and remained till Wednesday, get- ting aequainted with the South American students. Bible study classes will be organized the week of the 15th. The plan is to have a class in each fraternity house and two or more classes in Siliman Hall for neutrals. The text book to be used is \Student Stand- ards of Action.\ This little book diseusses very well a great many intensely practical subjects, and will certainly interest every fellow who joins the classes. Some time after the 23rd, Fred H. Rindge, secretary for Industrict Service Movement \rill be here at Union to organize the in- dustrial classes. Watch for further no- tices. Last Sunday afternoon in the chapel, Mr. Cox.. a 1J nion alumnus and secretary of the National Board of Censorship, gave a very interesting and instructive talk on the cen- sorship of motion pictures. Mr. Cox show- ed that the motion pictures are a great fac- tor in eliminating the saloons and in educat- ing the general public. He then explained the n1.ethods of the Board of Censorship and their relation to the morals of the country. In fact it was a talk which no student could well afford to miss. The Y. M. C. A. has taken great pains to secure the best of speakers for Sunday chapel and it does seem a pity that there is not a larger attendance. Next Sunday lets see seventy-five instead of twenty-five, out for chapel. Recent graduate to the man behind the desk-What's the chances for a young fel- low beginning at the bottom and working up? Man at the desk-Poor. We're contrac- tors for digging welis.-A wywan. , ATHLETIC BOARD. During the past week there were several coaching conferences, attended by Fred Dawson, Edmund Butler, Cornell, '13, and George Herbert Daily, Union, '92. The ob- ject of these meetings was to develop the greatest possible efficiency and skill in the football team. As Edmund Butler was cap- tain of the Cornell eleven and George Her- bert Daily is prominent in all athletic cir- cles, these conferences were undoubtedly of the greatest value to Fred Dawson and to the tean1. It is interesting to know that these meetings were arranged by Bill Smith. trhe New York University game was ad- vertised in Albany, Troy., and Amsterdam by the .l\thletic Board, and now the Hamil- ton game is being advertised on the same scale. Last week a high canvass screen was erected just inside the fence of the athletic field. This step was thought necessary to stop the popular practice of watching the games from Union Avenue and Lenox Road ' and also to eliminate the objectionable .re- marks from that quarter. POST IMPRESSIONS OF CAMPUS NOTABLES. Prexy-A fragrant thistle tied in velvet. Butterscotch on a strong-box. Don Coulter-· St. John Chrysostem in politics. Brose Clark-Impatience on a monument. Doc Mack-A tourniquet on a pillow. An iodine factory in Detroit. Foster Brown-The shortest distance be- tween two points. Dutchy Barnes-.Imperialism in knicker- bockers. Lee Fletcher-Io~aura Jean Libbey's re- vised version of the Bible. Hugh Stoller-Baston moved to America. Blodgett-A voice crying in the wilder- ness. l j :j 1 I I I ! . I '' I I I . i ' ' I,. t ··.·· f ~ - ) ,·· : r\ .A Cl h< ca th ht wi ye n1; fa~ te1 of ve \' do ~'.f} Im gn foe grt an< wh tee ] ( wif I get E

' ' f ,. ,, r L (· ·I ' ~ t :j 1 I I I ! . I ' I I I , I,. t ··.·· - ) : r\ THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 Charlie Waldron-The missing link found. . l\ sen tim ental motorman. Fred Dawson-Cicero on the human anatomy * * * \Guts.\ Fritz the ·Cop-Von Kluck on a vice- crusade. * * * Civic law in large print. FRESHMAN PEERADE. The final arrangements for the student body in regard to Saturday's celebration, ~rill. be given out Friday evening at the campus meeting in the chapel. The peerade this year promises to be the best ever. There will be nearly one- hundred men in line this year as compared with never over thirty-five in previous years. An innovation is to be made in the n1ake ups, the old stuff of take-offs on the faculty being eschewed in favor of charac- teristic sketches of the students. The line of march will not include Jay Street this vear but will be across the Terrace and \' down State, returning by the same route. ~'.fhe College Band will lead the procession. I1nn1ediately preceeding the game the greased pig contest will be held on the football :field. The main thing lacking is the \long green.\ Come across, you upper classmen, and follow the example of the freshmen, who have nearly paid up. Pay the commit- tee and get credit on your class books. Maude-There goes Percy. Claude-The horrid man! He beats his wife up every morning ! Fraud-Yes; he gets up at six, and she gets up- at seven.-Columbus Jester. It's great to cheer a winning team; It's great to be a hero, And help the team pile up the points, Opponents coining zero. But when the field is frozen stiff ' And tackling's fierce and hard, Why, then I'm glad I'm not a star, But a calm and peaceful bard. THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. Chirp the Second . Fall is the time of bolting; so is winter; likewise spring. Day after day, week after vveek we Scheme, plan, and contrive how we may get our vvork by the absent treat- n1ent. In fact, the Innocent Bystander has often heard the wish expressed for an auto- matic Utopian college, at which the young gentlemen could sit in their rooms, press the philosophy or physics button and in- stantly all the learning of Socrates or Aris- totle, Kepler or Newton would enter his patrician head. If we drop our mass of hypocrisy, don't tnost of us look upon classes as a neces- sary(?) evil, an evil to be shunned? Aren't we making every endeavor to \slip some- thing over\ on the faculty by bolting every now and then? But are we slipping any ... thing over on them ? Aside from a pro- fessional interest, does it make any vital in- terest to a prof. vvhether we are \stuci~\ in a course or not? In the vernacular, HThey should be disturbed.\ Now the college man is not a hardened reprobate. When he bolts a class, he thinks that he is doing only what he has a right to do. \I pay for my tuition,\ he says, \and its my own funeral whether 1 get my money's worth or not. If I bought three apples for a dime and took only two of them, I should be the loser.\ Thus he salves his conscience and ducks around the corner lest he bunk into the prof. The trouble is in our attitude. Some of us look upon a college course as a four year's vacation. Others who offer the ex- cuse presented above forget that it is the \folks at home,\ who constitute the Hsource from which all blessings flow,\ and that they are not sending us here to slip something over on the faculty in this naive way. Still others seems to forget that t4e reputation of the college is of quite some value, and tha~ it is up to the college to see that its students, when graduated, do nothing to

18 THE CON,CORDIENSIS sully that reputation. Hence, compulsory attendance; hence, absence excuses; hence, condetnnation of bolting; hence, the failure of the absent--treatment. Perhaps the Innocent Bystander has never participated in a bolt. Then again, per- haps he has. There's no sense in it, any- way. THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. On account of political combinations used in recent class elections at Brown Univer- sity, the Cammarian Club of that institution has declared the elections null and void. At the University of Texas, the freshman are permitted to vote as to whether they shall year the freshman caps or not. The regulation cap at present in that institution is green with a wide band of orange bor- dered with white around the side, and with an orange button on top. The college authorities at Hobart have issued an announcement to the students to the effect that hereafter any Hobart student who is known to use alcohol will be debar- red from receiving scholarship or other aid from the college. With 12,508 students registered in all its schools, Columbia University ranks as the largest university of the world in point of attendance. It is expected that the addi- tional students who will register in Febru- ary, will bring the total enrollment up to 14,000. THE SINGER. Alas! the gay, the merry strain That brings me from my couch in vain. To hear is list, and in the air Of dying night I stand, I stare. In doubt inwrapped. My ear seems still To hear the fleeing echoes fill The little valley at my feet, With melting harmonies and sweet. ,0, earth, what wandering spirit fair Doth charm the dewy star-lit air V/ith fairy melody, and~hark! Again it ripples through the dark- Could any bird give such a note Frim his crin1son-honeyed throat ; Or angel of a heavenly choir, Accon1panied on a golden lyre, En1i t such lyric ecstacy; A spire to sing so merrily!- N O\V slowly on the eastern hill The music dies-I sigh, I thrill, And admiration fills my breast, Oh, for sight of one so blest, With heart so gay !-a happy maid That dances down the distant glade; Her mind intent to hunt and lock Some strayer of the fenced flock, 0, cheerful heart, who e'er thou art, How gaily thou dost start To toil, \vhile nature lies in silence deep, Before the day awakes from sleep. There's life in thy gay melody; Thy heart is light; they heart is free. Row different this world would be, If all hearts were as light, as free. W. M. M., '18. 1 I I i_ ' I, l 't !' ~~ \ :t J,. ., C.' I 1,\ .. ,:,, t t ,, ,, ' ..... . ..... :l.' 'I I ,,, •' j' ' I' ,, ,.. ,, ,,. I ri' c p 11 t] . 11 f< t< n fl' fc dl a1 U] . Sl e' h( ar lTI' to 1111 . llll to W( ill( fin wa ho1 my the an< to an< the A: loo: aw1 and wh~ Wet pait Ion! turt

1 - I ? ,. I- ,- ' ,' THE CONCORDIENSlS 19 FRESHMAN TABLES. Number Six. \Dear Papa,\ wrote Ira, ''I am the hap- piest. freshman alive b:cause I have_ been initiated into Tau Epstlon Rho-you know that's the boarding house I have been stay- ing at since I came to col~ege. Well, p~pa, for the last two weeks ltfe has been Just terrible. Everybody was just as mean to me as they could he. There are three other freshmen staying at this boarding house, and for two weeks we had to climb in the win- dows and couldn't use the doors to go in and out the house. Tell mamma to send up some dark blue thread-those window- sills are all covered with screws. \Then we had to take our hats off when- ever we saw a fellow who lived in the same house. I didn't recognize them sometimes and they scolded me for it, so I took off tny hat to everybody after a while so as not to make a mistake. Then those mean sopho- tnores came around and said I wasn't wear- ing my freshman cap and they were going to cut my hair. But the Terrascottas wouldn't let them so I like the Terrascottas more than ever now. and so has nothing to do with the profs. And then they told about the time they licked Hamilton 96. to 0 back in 1896, and how everybody was bigger in those days than they are now. And then they started to take our photograph and just as they were going to take it a pipe burst up on the house somewhere and we got all drenched 'vith water, so I guess the picture wasn't very good, because I'm sure somebody moved. I know I did and I don't think Joe Beamish looked very pleasant, either. \'Well they took us upstairs one night into a room that I never knew was there before- isn't that funny pop ?-and it was awful hot in there because there was a crowd of people in there. So they marched us in in line and walked around the room while everybody sang. Then one of the felows in a funny vvig got up and told us what fine fellows we were and what fine fellows every body else in the room was and what fine fellows they always had been and always would be and what a fine fellow he was. Then he said, 'We herewith receive you into the notable company of 1~au Epsilon Rho,' which being interpolated means, 'Tomato Epicac Rough- house,' vvhich being interpolated means 'In onions there is strength, but oh you wild radish.' Then everybody applauded and congratulated us because we were as fine fel- lows as they were and we congratulated them because we were and then we made speeches and they showed us the grip, which is n1ade by throwing your thumb out of joint and turning a cartwheel with your left arm at your side. It's complicated but pretty and it gives you a great sensation while you're doing it. You feel 'Well, there's a brother of tnine, his hand is just as sore as . . ' 1n1ne 1s. \Well papa, it got worse and worse and finally they wouldn't talk to us at all, and I was thinking of changing my boarding house. But I couldn't talk to ask them for my board bill or to call the express man on the 'phone and then I was going to leave and go home to Cemetery. But it all came to an end when they spanked us one night and did all sorts of mean things to us and the next night there was a big celebration. A lot of funny old men came around and looked at us and said: \Humph ! What an awful bunch of slimers,' and walked around and sang songs and told about the days when they were in college before everything went to pieces. 1'hey told about how they painted the cows out in the pasture that be- longed to the profs-the cows not the pas- ture-the pasture belongs to the college, Then they made some more speeches and we all got out of the 1i ttle hidden room which was awful hot and stuffy and everybody said, 'Thank goodness that's over. Now we won't have to worry about any more blasted slim- ers for some time.' And we were glad too

. i . t ! ) ' \ 20 THE CONCORDIENSlS because we could come in the front door again and nobody played games with clubs around where we were any more. Every- body seemed to enjoy it but us and we all think it was awful now and always laugh whenever they say anything about it. \Tell man1ma that they came, but she didn't mark them. No, you better tell her that they came and it doesn't make any dif- ference whether she marked them or not be- cause I'm going to sew them on till the cold weather stops. Joe Beamish has hired one suit b.y the month. Joe Beamish says they're fine· for inflammable rooatism. \Yours in Tomato Epicac Roughhouse, (that's Greek they say), \IRA.\ ENGLISH CLUB. The next meeting of the English Club will be held November thirteenth, and Aus- tin G. Martin and Leo Fitzgere1:ld will pre- sent a paper on John Masefield. The club this year is taking up the study of contem- porary English and American poetry. COUNTING CHICKENS - HATCHED AND UNHATCHED. Princeton fears that Williams is not strong enough to give it the practice it wants this week.-Spring:field Republican. \'Tilliams is * * * hardly enough to caus_e much of a flurry in Princeton. Williams does look for a score and that from a drop kick by de Windt.-Springfield Republican. Score: William, 7; Princeton, 7 .~Spring ... field Republican. Of all sad words we have to say, Although we rip and tear, \We stand corrected,\ are the ones That almost make us swear. U-ite: Are you superstitious? I-I-ite: Yes, I think that having Union on the schedule is going to give Hamilton bad luck. ANOTHER SONG. Written fo.r the Hamilton Game By \Shad\ De La Vergne, the Allouette of 1914. Tune-·· \It's a Long Way to Tipperary.\ It's a long way back to Clinton, It's a long way for you, It's a long way back to Clinton \Vith your beaten team of blue. Good bye to your chances, Poor old Hamilton Give a long, long yell for the Garnet teams, boys, For Union has won. In forty-four leading colleges and univer ... sities of the United States there were in the past year 2,084 foreign students. China sends more than any other country, 438. Of the rest, 327 are from Canada; 263 from Japan; 102 from India; 77 each from Eng ... land and Mexico; 85 fron1 Cuba; 67 fron1 Germany; 57 from Brazil; 53 from Turkey ; 42 from Russia; 32 from Argentina; 25 each from France and Norway; 23 from South Africa; and the rest from almost half a hun- dred countries and islands. At Rutgers a mathematics club has been organized for the purpose of making a study of the finer points of this highly interest- ing subject. The \Sock and Buskin\ dramatic society at Lafayette offers a prize £or the best synopsis of a college play, which is entered by any o£ the undergraduates. Another prize is given to the man who writes the best play upon the synopsis selected. Sweet Young Thing-Did you know that knee vanity boxes are becoming all the rag-e? S1nart Young Fellow-So I see. S. Y. T.-Oh, you horried thing! you can not.-Penn State Froth. i.': l j ,'' ~ I li' ,, ~~ '~ i .. \ '' 1:::.:. ~ \: i [ . 'i• ,It ... \. '' i : ~ i ·.'. f' 'I : I . : ·i. ' ' ;., ' 1 . ,I' ~. .. •> • ..

i.': l j ,'' ~ I li' ,, ~~ ~··· ... \ . ' 1:::.:. 'i• ,It ... \. '' i : ~ i ·.'' f' 'I : I . : ·i. . ' . ,I' ~. ~. :I r. Jf you want anything from QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Bro& ALBANY, N. Y. -IF- You feel that a custom tailor is the only man that can put true distinction into your garments-you are laboring under the wrong impression. If you think that a custom tailor is the only man that can give you an exclusive pattern and weave-once again you're wrong. And if you think that a custom tailor can give you nearly as much value as \Steefel's\ can-we're afraid you're wrong again. If your thoughts run in the above channel, drop in and see us-and we'll put you right. Suits and Overcoats $10 to $60. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. All the Latest Novelties in WALL PAPER AND DECORATIONS Sun 5 & 10c Wall Paper Store 411 STATE STREET. Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454- J. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. PROCTOR'S \THEATRE BEAUTIFUL\ VAUDEVILLE-PHOTOPLAYS Every afternoon & Evening 1 to 5 6:45 to 11 SUNDAYS: Feature Pictures 2 to 5 Special Music 7 to 10:30 YOUNG MEN!~ Step Into a Pair of Oor SURE-FIT Shoes Here we picture two of the newest lasts for young men who keep apace with the shoe fashions. Correct for college, school or business. Natty enough for dress wear. Values like these are only possible in a metropolitan s t o r e like Patton & Hall's. PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST. Below the Drldce.

More College News IN THE Read It Every Day GAZETTE 5 FOR YOUR DEN . Beautiful College Pennants Yale and Hardvard, Each 9 in. x 24 in Princeton, Cornell, Michigan, Each · 7 in. x 21 in. 4--PENN ANTS. SIZE 12x30-4 Any Leading Colleges of Your Selection All of our best quality, in their proper colors, with colored emblems. Either assortment, for limited time sent postpaid for 50 cents and five stamps to cover shipping costs. Write us for prices before placing orders for felt novelties of all kinds. The Gem City Novelty Co. 623'1 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. Nett Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258- J. L. SCHWARTZ NIEWS ROOM Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. There is no Music Like Giocia' s Orchestra 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. A Gift that seals friendship- Your Portrait THe The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET. A Complete Department Food Store. The Best in Everything for the Table at the Lowest Cash Prices. QUICK, ACTIVE SERVICE ED, THE BARBER THE BARBER. SHOP FOR UNION MEN • .- ... -, - i- Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store I. LEVINE Merchant Tailor, 107 Jay Street. Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. Favored by the College Boys. . _:; J ' 'J·· ' : '; ' ! l f f ·.·. . \. '

. _:; J ' : I f ' : ' f ·.·. . \. ' Bellinger Paint Co. ~~~ ... · ... ·.. . ~ ~ ~ Walk-Over sLoe:s w1U ta Ice --.- you anywhere and back. •, ' PAI·NTS, OILS LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishea Walk-Ovets. 212 So. Centre St. : 407 .State Street, :Schenectady A R Z ·. t Q .· ·h . ·..... furnished music at U~ion C. ollege 1905 ' . ' . Ita s . rc estra 'o6, '07, 'o8, 'og, 'Io, 'II, '12 '13 & '14 Best Dance Music i.n the Worid H. R. PHONE Main 3483-W Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., Albany Only the Best Service. None Better for Concert TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students R. Wirth, Union '18 Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All Ia test Desserts served at his fountain~ Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. 135 NOTT TER.RACE Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $1·8 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wen dell & Morris Aves .. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Onion St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions .Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620-W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 4'26 State Street Eyea Te1ted and Gl•11e1 Fitted THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography ·~-··d \Watch the Show Case'• RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street.

A National Custom \Bull\ Durham is more than a national form of en- joyment-it is an expression of American character. The millions of \Bull'• Durham smokers are the self-reliant, energetic Americans who make the United States the most progressive nation in the world. These men make their own opportunities, make their own success-and they like to ma/ee their own cigarettes:~ to their own liking, from ripe, mellow GE:NUINE: \BuLl DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO North, East, South, and West they \roll their own\ -from cow-puncher to congressman, from soldier and sailor to general and admiral, from mill worker to corporation president. The smooth, mellow flavor and rich. fragrance of fresh- rolled \Bull\ Durham cigarettes afford A • k For FREE h ealthful ·en]· oyment and lasting sat is- book t::Jf u PQPf:!rs\ faction to more millions of men than all other high-grade smoking tobaccos co~bined. FRE . E An Illustrated Booklet, · showing correct way to ''Roll Your Own'' cigar. ettes, and a Book of cigarette papers, will both be mailed. free, to any address in United States on postal request. Ad- dress \Bull'~ Durham, Du1·ham, N. C. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY witla each 5c aa.c:k. ~~;r ' ··, ' I , - 'I ·i.f ,· I 1 ·\ 1 ·.·. I~.-­ t; 'I~ . , l it - \ ! , .. ' ';, , .. 1.- ,, J. 1 If ,. l l·. ,. If 1 • 1!.: I )!! ·, !i ·. .·.·,' ' 1 -

/, ', f ,' 1 • I' I·· 1' .. ,, :. (' r If ,, II If ' • '.!. '. I )!! ·, !i ', . ·.· ·:-_.:, ' 1 l ! : t . I :. I . i ·. ! ' ' I ' I .· ., :/ . ' THE UN·ION of a Sophomore or Freshman with a ·few dolars which will stay by him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in · The Sche·nectady Savings Bank CO·R. STATE AND c~LINTON The Edison American Plan AU Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special Meal Ticket, 8 m.e als for $5 Edwin Clute, Prop. Schenectady, N. Y. A Union Pennant with a picture of the \Gym\ painted on-75c The Gleason Book Co. 104 Jay Street Gleason Building \On your way to the .poat office\ THE MOHICAN COMPANY L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate That is Right, Reasonable and On Time Schenectady Art Press J. H. Como, Prop. 206 So. Centre St. 2 doors from State Wally Girling Johnson and Murphy Shoes Kirkpatrick Shoes Room I & II, Middle WATERS \The Right Tailor with the Right Prices\ Of course we do CLEANING and Press- ing. Let us call for your work. 463 STATE St. up Stairs SCHENECTADY, N. Y • TELEPHONE 1441-J Sweaters and Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union Section South Colle~e Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N. Y.

., l ~ I 'i ( l f 'I ; I ; I '! \1 II H \ i II r I t . / t '. j i I 1 1' i I L i.l q ! ! ·!I d t. 'I 'I I I I i i I ! \ t I' j: ! I j, I. l; l I i l l t ! I I. ! ! l' I l: I I The Schenectady Clothing Co. Clothing for College Men Stein-Bloch and Hickey-Freeman Suits and Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward Full · Dress Acceessories Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at all times The Schenect~dy C~othing Co. . . ~ ~ 313-315 $tate $treet Telephone 91-W The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354- W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. JUST WRIGHT THE SHOE OF A GENTLEMAN Metropolitan Styles Geissler & Ryan NEAR STATE ON JAY. P. J. K'E·NNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a · Speci.alty . Cor. Jay & liberty $f.. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL Shoes TH_E LEWIS DINNING ROOM Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit pertectly and are very stylish in appe~rapce; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street. Near State 154 BARRETT ST.~ near State Meals, Table de Hote Breakfast 6:00 A. M. Luncheon 11:30 A. M. Dinner 5:00 P. M. Sunday Breakfast 8:00 A. M. Dinner 12:00 M. Single Meals 30c Sunday Dinner SOc 20 MEAL CARD $5.0Q Hom~ cook~d mt:als. prepar~d of the best of things to eat, cooked and served in a clean and J sanitary manner. Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S <, 422 State Stre~t '\. ·:;·_!' ,:/ J . ·.·.: ... 'J ~~-~ (\·~: 1,'. t,\ i;:'''· : .. ' ; ' ' ' , ' -

'\. '·, :j : ' ... :;~:-: \'.' ~}I ~ ' ·.: 'J ~~-~. (\·~: 1,'. t,\ i;:'''· : .. ' '' ~f. I ' .,,1, ' )J t .: ' <f.: 1 I ~ .. .r. . ! '~~; I • . ; ' ' ' Stoll's Ho!brauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS~ Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938. MAX NOW A, P:ropG A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the housee Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. H. J. Schwartz Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at less than \Ready-Made\ Prices,. Dress Suits from $25 up. 9 Proctor's Arcade, Wedgeway Building .. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17e Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909- W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. Phone 4489. IN A HURRY HEN IT RAINS . ·.. . OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS High Grade Laundry get the KILLIP LAUNDRY QUALITY 719 STATE STREET, 'Phone 759 Schenectady, N. Y. QUALITY AND SATISFACTION combined makes clear the reason why SP ALD- ING'S are outfitters to champions whose im- plements must be invariably right. The Spald- ing Trade Marlt: represents years of leadership in the manufacture of athletic equipment. A G S ld • & B 126-128 Nasaau Street • .. pau lng fOS. 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalogue S. A. Hamilton GROCER 841 \Union St. Phone 2540 MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete. . An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM., 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch 154 J CHOCOLATE 5 PIE WITH WHIPPED CR~AM, OUR SPECIALTY .•• ay treet, On your way to the Post Office

Copyright Bart Scha!fner & Man To A College Man The Name Hart, Schaffner & Marx Means Good Clothes We Sell Them # 4 QW W But don't let us give you the impression that Clothes are all that we sell. Hats, Shirts, Sweaters, Underwear, Neckwear, Hose, Collars, and all the little things that fellows need to wear are here-new with us the minute they are new to the world. T~is is a good place to spend all of your clothes and outfitting money. & b Iii llll!HS'ft1\ U&4 'l!l!ltf6¥1¥*1ii*rlri s ' W' MW 'P \WiE'H&f*ft sm•• W 1 @1Nitw''iP'R\l\\U\\ ;f '- 240-44 State Street Schenectady Schenectady ~ Art Press i .. , •.. '

THE ~· :! t PUBLISHED WE£1\L BY Tf/E STUDENTS i! OF l UN ION COLLEGE

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D .• LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. C9Ur8es lea(ling to the degree of A. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Course leading to the deg·ree of Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRsE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of B. S. SciENTIFIC CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leadh1g to the deg·ree ot B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRsE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intenrled to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Courses leading to graduate degrees. CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE oF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L ... V. Herri~gton Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE o:F M. S. E. E.-This course of one year of gr.aduate study· consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. COURSE LEADING To DEGRE;E OF PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalerrt. For catalogues or other in formation address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. · Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full in forma- tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA]. PARKER, J. NEWTON FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $I 10. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. W A'l'SON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. AtFRIW B. HvES'I'ED, Secretary, ''Everythin~ for the Colle~e Man except Exom•\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate Middle Section, So. Colle~e Phone 1472-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate ' I ' ., ~.,·I, ; I . ' ~·.• (1 j

' I ' ., 1.1' I, ; I . ' ~·.• (1 j •, l .. 1 TRADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical . LATEST .STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 · ICnown wherever Good Shoes are worn. All a·tyles and leathers LINDSAY BROS. ,CO. COR. STATE AND WALL STS. The Cain's Leading exponents of Modern Dancing in Schenectady and Vicin· ity. New Pupils received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9 p.m. Pri· vate . Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phone 2710-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS r~9ja; 3 ~:;;:; CompanY EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURfiiSHER Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera. and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and· Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men.

If you don't want to meet your double on the stree,t why not buy a BABBITT CONFINED SUIT or OVERCOAT? We are sole agents in this tri-city territory for ROGERS-PEE!T CO'S. and the ''FRANKEL-FIFTEEN'' Hand Tailored 'Clothes Come in and see them, the visit wiU repay you Babbitt & Co. ''Albany's Greatest Clothiers and Furriers\ 451-453 BROADWAY THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We are not living in the stage-coach decade, at which time the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as o1fe did in by-gone days. Neither would you ha v- ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 438 State Street Free Order Service Opposite Jay Street Telephone 3456 Higgins' ( Drawina& Ink& I Eternal W ritinat Ink Ena&rossina& Ink I, Taurine Mucila~c \') Photo Mounter Paate I . Drawina& Board Paate Liquid Paate l ·. Office Paste Veatetable Gluea, etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N.Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street, '' ·.~ '.,: J ·:\\ '·.; I ' jl .~ · .. ; . . f J ~t ' ....

,\ · .. . •(It~ . ' J ·: .. \ i· . f J .... ~~~----------------------------------~-----------,·.~ Our Leading Athletes Join with· Gtlter famous. Americans in ;Praising Tuxedo Tobacco O UR world-famo·us athletes- who triumphed for America at th·e Olym·,pic Games in Stockholm -are a~rno;n:g the thousands who declare that 'Tuxedo is not only ex- tremely e:nloyable, but beneficial. Famo~u:sA..mericansineverywalkof life-doctors:, lawyers, actors, singers, public speakers, statesmen, business leaders -·s:rn:oke and endorse T/Je Perfect Tobacco for Pipe tmd Cigarefla Tuxe·d() grew rapidly in public favor, a:r1d without advertising reached th·e stupendous total of fifty or sixty ·million packages a year. Not until the past few months could '\fux- edo keep up with the demand. Now increased facilities permit everyman to smoke this best of tobaccos. Tuxedo is fine, ripened Burley tobacco .of the highest grade-aged until thoroughly mild and mellow. Then treated by the famous ''Tux- edo Process,'' that removes the last trace of ''bite'' and develops all the delicious B urleyfragrance and flavor. YOU CAN &UY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE MARTIN SHERIDAN \Tuxedoi& a &trcmg card· ' with me. I advise all athlete& to stick to Tuxedo. lt is the · one .tobacco that will help them, /eeep them in trim, prevent them from going ~stale.' Tuxedo leads- bar ;,·, none. GASTON STROBINO \TuxeJo is the tobacco for the athlete. It nerJer hurts my wind, and always &teadies m_y ne,es. Tuxedo for me.\ ~Jit.J~ Convenient P omcb, 5 inner-lineJ with · moisture-proof paper C Famous green tin, 10 with gold lettering, · C curved to fit pocket MATT McGRATH In Glcus Humidora, 5 Oc and 90c FRE 'E Send us 2 cents in stamps for post- age and we will mail you a souvenir tin of TUXEDO tobacco to any point in the United States. Address THE A.M.ERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY Room 1299 111 Fifth Avenue New York • ~No athlete need fear to amo~e a& much as he wants, if he use& Tuxedo. It' 1 a general help to Gny man. A pipeful of Tuxedo put& new life into me. :. ' ~/!:It~ ·'

Say Fellows: Bring in your laundry and save money Note these Prices: Shirts aU Kinds ....•.................. lOc • Collars ............................... 2c Union Suits . . . . . . . ................ lOe Underwear, Night Shirts and Pajamas. . .. . ........... 6c each · Hose .......... ~ ..•... , ...... 3c per pair H andkerchiets .... _ .................. 2c Barrow's Hand Lau·ndry 738 State Street We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Maken of Caps, Gowns and Hoods To the American Colleges and Universities from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Cia~• contracts a specialty UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations S()licited. . . . The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street To Cure Cold • ''l BUY A GAS. HEATER MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' 1\rt Stnrr No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady, N! Y~ 1 r~l,LU 1\-..ITWE.An t <.1Ml'f\WI' Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. .. _:.··'' '.:·.:;., .. •' ~ \ . ' I J I ·•

... ' .:·' ·_ ~:.:' ·:'.'.'. -~-. j.lf ,-. ' . I ~, ~~· [·~ ~~~·;· [~ 8 / . ::. , '\:· (. '~. ' t·· r~. ·.~ .. - I . ~ '• . ' I J Clo·thing F ur11ishings Hats:' KEELER'S ~~EUROPEAN--~ HOTEL and Cabaret at 9 P. M. We're ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? · :B r:aadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y The newest and best in each department. ~ Wells & Coverly TROY \If It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' m Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires m GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to · carry the most complete line of Kitchen Alll .Dg Rubber Co. Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. 229 State Street 26 Stores COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Fine Jmported Telephone 2323- J CANDIES . and Domestic Woolens Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- . bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS , 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Lyon's 13 McCLELLAN Cor. · 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street EASTERN Ave. \Look for the Cow's Head.\

1 Ready to Wear and Custom Made STYLISH C,LOTHE.S Comparison is the · Lever That Turns ; Trade Our Way FOR YOUNG MEN This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, superiority of workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to all College Student is yours for the asking. 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases of $10 or over if this ad is presented at the time of purchase. 503 - 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght,, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N.Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOB'ELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: Men's soles, sewed ________ ?Sc I.(adies' soles, nailed ________ 40c I-~adies' soles, sewed _______ 60c Men's Heels _______________ 25c Men's soles, nailed ____ 50 to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 803 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________ -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 \The College Photographer\ GARNET 19()3 1909 1~ 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 19()5 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 CARL DANNER, Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S Colleolle Repre•en tati ve 1908 19H 1915 are in every style suitable for city or country, frolic · or function. The colors are fast, the styles smart and right-the patterns correct-insist on the label. $1.50 and up Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. Makers . Let;s Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT .. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 298-W. 722 Eastern Ave. r,, I ·', ,.' ' ' ' ' .' ,. . . . . ; : ' ' ' . \ 1

. ' ,.· 1 ,, ' ' ' ' ;,,, i .... ; ' ' ' ,i ', ' \ I j·.\ \ I The Concordiensis VOL. 38 NOVEMBER 19, 1914 N0.7 GARNET DOWNS BLUE UNION KEEPS SLATE CLEAN. Game Won in First Hal£ is Sealed Signed and Delivered in Last Quarter. Union crowned the most remarkable football season in its history-eight vic- tories and no defeats-by administering a decisive defeat to her time-honored rival, Hamilton, last Saturday afternoon on Alexander Field. The score was Union 26, I-Iamilton 7. The game decided the championship o£ the New York State Intercol\\' legiate Athletic Union in favor o:f the Garnet. Hamilton's solitary touchdown came in the early part of the fourth quarter after exceptionally good use of the forward pass in the previous period. Two passes put the ball on Union's five yard line when the whistle blew and on the second play ot the fourth period Captain LaForce carried the pigskin over. Union's scoring was equally divided between the two halves, 13 points in each half. Late in the first quarter, after Rockwell, of Union, recovered a ptint by Girling, two first downs for the Garnet had carried the ball to Hamilton's five yard line and AHderson shot through with crushing interference tor the :first touchdown. Girling missed the goal. In the second quarter two forward passes from Beaver to Starbuck and Anderson respectively advanced the pigskin to the five yard line, whence Roof scored. Anderson kicked the goal. In the last period a sensational 45 yard forward pass fron1 Beaver to Cleveland, who ran five yards with the ball, marked up Union's third touchdown and when Girt- ing kicked the goal the score was 2 7 to 7. The final touchdowrt came after brilliant ground gaining by Beaver, Roof, and Girling, when Girting took the ball across. He missed the kick. Hamilton depended principally upon her open play. Shifts, open formations, and forward passes made up her offence, and seldom did she have recourse to line buck- ing. Captain LeForce who played brilliantly for the Blue and Buff saw time and again his long hurtling passes blocked or intercepted by Garnet players. But the formation-half the team ready to receive the ball forty yards from the line ot play- \vas dangerous and began to succeed late in the third quarter. A perfect volley of passes had been blocked up till that time but :finally one succeeded and carried the ball

10 THE CONCORDIE'NSIS 20 yards down the field. In quick succession a second pass successfully eluded the Garnet players and the baH was on the five yard line. Captain LaForce carried it .across. Union was on the offensive throughout the greater portion of the game. Though it had been said that Fred Dawson's 1nen would rely principally upon mass plays, the team opened up frequently and forward passes succeeded often. Beaver's re- markable dodging in \getting the passes off \rhile surrounded by a maze of Buff and Blue players was responsible in great part for the team's success. AU credit must be given Rosecrans,, Roof and Girling, however, for battering-ram line-smashing while Beaver and Girling did yoeman work in running back punts and running in an open field. Anderson did strong individual playing but the regular backfield combination -----Roof, Girling, and Rosecrans-. was most effective in advancing the ball by clever in- terference and team play. Hokerk, put in at center in the third quarter, made his last football game a won- derful exhibition of sheer nerve. Althoug-h playing with ligaments in his leg torn as a result of the N .. Y. U. game, and in continual pain, he was the same steady, cool passer and accurate analyzer of plays that has made him noteworthy all season ancl given him the title of one of the greatest linetnen that Union has ever produced. Garry Wood's last appearance on the gridiron was less spectacular if just as gritty as Hokerk's. It was expected that he would not play but he started the game at tackle and got in the kick-off before his arm went back on him. Blood clots are dangerous things-but a victory over Hamilton means a lot, too. Price, Jenkins, Jackson, Rockwell, and Gardner, be it said to their everlasting credit that the line held. Regularly Schwarz'$ and LaForce's line-plunging met with stonewall defense which stayed them or hurled them back. Pete Starbuck, at end, was ~eadly in his tackling and played the game of his life. Aikin played a shifty game while Cleveland, who took his place, earned renown by a remarkable jumping catch of a forward pass which resulted in a touchdown. Jake Beaver was a cunning general, got off his plays fast and with precision, and did some individual running and passing that has seldon1 been equaled on a Union field. It was Union's reversion to open play that surprised Hamilton who were expecting especially straight football. Heavy rain the day before had cleared the atmosphere, leaving the wind keen but not too strong, and the day fair. The field was in the best condition it has known this season. Down either side of the field, and beyond the east goal stretched bleach- ers, crowded as never before at a Union game. Overflowing the bleachers and strung around either end of the field so that there was no vacant space encircling the field of play jammed the 4,000 and more spectators. Before the game the freshmen in costume paraded, followed .by a good percentage of the student body. After the parade mCl:rch- ed around the field, a doughty porker was seductively pursued by zealous freshmen with the result that much honor accrued to the Pyramid Club when a minion of the said house triumphantly bore off his prize. , At 2 :15 the Hamilton squad, fired with its famous Hamilton frenzy, took the field and was greeted with a long yell from the Union bleachers. At the same moment Ham- ilton's sturdy delegation headed by its band marc.hed to its seats opposite the Union cheering section and began the contest of lungs. I • .,,

I • THE CONCORDIENSlS 11 Then C'aptain P·ete Starbuck's darlings trotted out from the gym, and the con- oerted cheers that n1et them continued for five minutes. Shortly the whistle blew and the game was on. First Period. Jackson kicked off for Union. Griffith received the hall on Hamilton's 20 yard line and carried it back 15 yards. LaForce made :five yards on a skin tackle play. Schwarz made it first down around left end. Gardner got Bristol for no gain. Schwarz carried the ball half way acJ:oss the field but made no gain. LaForce kicked and B·eaver was stopped on Union's 10 yard line. R.osecrans punted. It was Hamilton's ball on Union's 40 yard line. LaForce failed to gain on an end run. Pete Starbuck intercepted a forward pass and it was Union's ball on the forty yard line. Anderson ploughed through tackle for eight yards. Ar.lderson fumbled and it was Hamilton's ball. LaForce plunged through off tackle for 8 yards. Union was penalized 5 yards and it was first down. Schwarz made 5 yards through center. Schwarz fumbled. Union's ball. Rosecrans made a yard. Mudge dropped back to kick hut the pass was wild and Hamilton got the ball on Union's 20 yard line. Girling went in for Mudge. LaForce made 3 yards, then 4 yards and Schwarz made it first down. A forward pass was block- .ed. LaForce failed to gain twice and on the fourth down Union received the ball. Girling kicked and Rockwell recovered the ball after it was touched by a Hamilton man. Girling made 5 yards on a line buck. Beaver made 4 yards the same way. An- derson made 10 yards on a skin tackle play behind good interference. Anderson made 10 yards more. Girling gained 6 yards around the end; Anderson three through center, and Rosecrans made first down. Girling made 4 yards and the ball was on Hamil ton's 5 yard line. Anderson went through for the first touchdown. Starbuck kicked out to Beaver and Girling missed the goal by inches. Score: Union 6, Hamil- ton 0. ] ackson kicked off to Griffith and Starbuck spilled him on the 25 yard line. La- Force punted and Beaver returned the ball 25 yards. Anderson and Girling made it first down. Rosecrans made 5 yards and Girling failed to gain just as the whistle blew for the end of the quarter. Each team had made first down four times. Score: Union, 6; Hamilton, 0. Second Period. With the ball on Hamilton's 25 yard line, ;Rosecrans made 8 yards through the line, and fo Bowed it by making first down. Girling made 8 yards. Rosecrans again made first down. The ball was on Hamilton's 10 yard line. Pope threw Rosecrans for a loss. Rosecrans' attempt at drop kick for goal failed. Hamilton received the ball on her 20 yard line. Neither Bristol nor LaForce could gain and LaForce punted. Beav- er got the ball on the fifty yard line. Rosecrans made 2 yards. Girling kicked out of bounds on Hamilton's 20 yard line. LaForce punted to Beaver on Hamilton's 45 yard line. Beaver attempted a fake forward pass and Hamilton was penalized for hold- ing. First down. Anderson made a yard. Beaver shot a forward pass of 6 yards to Starbuck. Rosecrans plunged through for first down. Union was penalized for off-side and there were fifteen yards to go for first down. Beaver shot another for- ward pass, this time to Anderson, for first down. Rosecrans made 2 yards. Girting failed to gain and Roof took his place. The ball was under the shadow of Hamilton's

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS goal and Roof shot through like a flake of popped rice for another touchdown. Ander- son kicked the goaL Score: Union, 13; Hamilton, 0. Jackson kicked off to Schwarz who ran the ball back 35 yards. It was Hamilton's ball on the middle of the field. Rosecrans intercepted a forward pass on the next play and Roof made 5 yards on a smash through center. Anderson made first down. Union was penalized 15 yards for holding and Rosecrans punted. Schwarz, Bristol and LaForce made first down. Schwarz went through off center for 8 yards, Rockwell tackling him. LaForce made first down. Union mussed up a forward pass; Starbuck threw LaForce for a loss and the whistle blew just as Bristol made 5 yards. .Union made first down six times in this quarter and Hamilton twice. Score: Union, 13; Hamilton, 0. Third Period. LaForce kicked off for Hamilton and regained possession of the ball on a fumble by Jenkins. LaForce made 4 yards, then Hamilton failed to gain. Starbuck tackled Pope just as he received a forward pass and threw him for no gain. Another forward pass went out of bounds and it was Union's hal on her own 20 yard line. On the first play Beaver fumbled and Brockway fell on the ball. Hamilton had possession on Union's 15 yard line. LaForce made a small gain, Jackson got his man on the line of play, and two forward passes failed, giving Union the ball. Hokerk amid great enthu siasm went in for Gardner. Rosecrans punted to Hamilton's 10 yard line. Bristol gained 3 yards and a penalty gave Hamilton first down. Page went in for Bristol. Jenkins slid through and tackled Schwarz behind the line. Page made 4 yards. A forward pass was incomplete and LaForce kicked to Beaver who returned the ball 10 yards. It was Union's ball on the 40 yard line. Rosecrans kicked. Two incomplete passes followed and LaForce kicked. Beaver put the ball on Union's 40 yard line. An- derson gained five yards, Roof three, and Rosecrans made first down. Roof made 2 yards twice, and Rosecrans once. Houghton went in for Beaver, and Rosecrans kick- ed. Hamilton received on her 20 yard line. Schwarz skirted the end for 10 yards. Page made 5, and R.oof blocked a forward pass. Hamilton was penalized for off side and failed to gain. Then LaForce cut loose a forward pass to Dayton for first down. LaForce attempted two line plunges but met with stonewall opposition, then heaved a pass 15 yards to Griffith. Stoller went in for Roof. The ball was on Union's 15 yard line. Here Union braced and held Hamilton for downs. Rosecrans kicked to Page. Rockwell left the game and Dent took his place. Schwarz made 20 yards around Union's end. The period ended with the ball on Union's 10 yard line. Hamilton made first down five times in this period, Union once. Score: .Union, 13; Hamilton, 0. Fourth Period. On the first play in the last quarter a forward pass was good for five yards, La ... Force to Pope. A~ this point Girling went in for Anderson, Roof for Stoller, Beaver for Hough ton, Vroman for Price, Cleveland for Aikin. LaForce ploughed through for a touchdown, and promptly kicked the goal. Score: Union, 13; Hamilton, 7. LaForce kicked off and Girting returned the ball 25 yards. Rosecrans and Roof gained 6 yards but Girting punted on the next play. Bristol caught the ball but made - I j \ ~' ~' 1! n; .. . ,,, '!'·. at '' . ,,· tl '!''i; •, '('·,1' I . ' b. ' d: l c \' fc '2 c I ~ a ( I ('• .. \' c; , y; ;; '!', t ''· t 1 1

I j \ ~· ~· 1! '' ',. ,,,,;-; ' ' ' ', ;:/' , ': I I'• ,, , ) ,' i '!', ''· THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 110 gain. LaFor·ce punted. Beaver returned the ball 10 yards. After an unsuccessful forward pass, Roof ploughed through for 10 yards, making first down. Roof could not gain. Alpert went in for Jackson. Roof gained 5 yards. Beaver got off a won- derful 20 yard forward pass to Starbuck but lJnion was penalized 15 yards on the same play and lost 10 instead of gaining 20. 'rhere was one more down and Beaver resorted to strenuous measures. He sig- nalled for a ior\.vard pass. ·Cleveland, waiting 45 yards down the :field leaped into the air as the baH sailed by, grabbed it, and plunged on five yards with a Hamilton man on tither side for a touchdown. ·Girling kicked the goal. Score: Union, 20; Hamilton, 7. Hanson went in for Cleveland. Pope received Girling's kick off and returned the ball to his own 4:5 yard line. Three uncompleted passes-apparently desperate reme- dies-failed and LaForce kicked. Beaver dodged back 20 yards before he was downed. Union resorted agai-n to open play and after one failure a 40 yard pass nestled in Girling's arms. Two passes were not as successful and Girling essayed a place kick which was no good. But Girting recovered the ball on a free fumble. Jones went in for Schwarz and Gow for Griffith. Another forward pass-Beaver to Girling-netted ·20 yards. StoBer took Rosecrans' place and gained 4 yards on a line plunge. Two in- completed passes followed and it was I-Iamilton's ball on her 30 yard line. Ingersoll of Hamilton went in for Page, Little for Pope, and Pope for Keddy. LaForce kicked and J?eaver caught on the 50 yard line. Nash went in for Alpert. Pope intercepted a pass and it was Hamilton's ball. On the. next play Hamilton took the same medicine, for Girling intercepted a pass from LaForce. Roof made 8 yards through guard. Beaver pulled a spectacular run of 40 yards when he dropped back as if for a forward pass and then took the ball himself. Roof made 5 yards, Girting one, and Hamilton was pen- alized for off side 5 yards. Beaver shot through the line for 10 yards which brought the ball 5 yards from Hamilton's goal. The last touchdown of the season, as well as the first, was scored by Wally Girling. He missed the goal. Union kicked off but on the next three plays Hamilton could do nothing. Then the whistle blew and the game was over. Union made first down nine times in this period, Hamilton once. Score: Hamilton, 7; Union, 26. The summary is as follows: HAMil~ TON. UNION. Griffith --------------------:...-------- left end -------------------------- Starbuck Dayton -------- .... ----------------- left tackle ---------------------------- Wood Emeny ----------------------------- left guard ----------------------------- Price Ogilvie ---------------------------- center ----------------- ........ ----------- .... -- Gardner Brockvvay ------------------------ right guard -------------------------- Jackson Woolnough --------·-------------- right tackle -------------------------- Jenkins Bristol -------------------------- quarterback --------------------------- Beaver Pope ----------------------------- right end ------------------------------ Aikin Schwarz ------------------------ left half back ------------------------ Anderson Ke · ddy --------------------------- rtght half back ------------------------- Mudge LaForce --------------------------- fullback --------------------..:.------ Rosecrans

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS· SCORE BY PERIODS. Union ...-----------------------·-----.,;;;;,---~--,-6· 7 Hamilton --------------------------------0 0 First Quarter. Gains Union ---------------------------------- '75 Hamilton -------------------------------- 35 Second Quarter. , Union ------------------,----------------- 7.5 Hamilton ------------------------------- 19 Third Quarter. l..,Tnion ---------------------------------- 19 ·Hamilton ------------------------------- 86 Fourth Quarter. Union -------------------·-------------·-- 179 Jlarnilton ------------------------------- 35 Totals. lJnion ---------------------------------- 351 Hamilton ------------------------------- 175 0 0 First Downs 4 2 5 2 1 4 5 0 1 15 9 13-26 7- '7 Penalties 5 0 25 5 15 0 60 10 Touchdowns-Anderson, Roof, Girling, Cleveland, for Union; LaForce for Hamil- ton. Goals from touchdowns-Anderson, Girling, for .Union; LaForce for Hamilton. Substitutions-Rockwell for Wood, Girting for Mudge; Roof for Girting; Hokerk for Gardner; Houghton for Beaver; Stoller for Roof; Dent for Rockwell; Girting for An- derson; Beaver for Houghton; Vroman for Price; Alpert for Jackson ; Hanson for Cleveland; Cleveland for Hanson; Nash for Alpert; Stoller for Roof, for Union. Page f?r Bristol; Bristol for Page; Jones for Schwarz; Gow for Griffith; Ingersoll for Keddy; Keddy for Jones; Inseley for Woolnough. Referee-Draper, Williams. Um- pire-DeCamp, Williams. Head linesman-Selfridge, Columbia. Time of quarters-15 minutes. ~ INTERFRATERNITY COUNCIL. At a meeting of the fraternities and Pyra- mid Club on November 10 at the Psi Upsi- lon House, a decision was reached to estab- li$h a permanent council. Officers were elected as follows: Gerritt Wood as presi- dent, and C. Foster Brown as secretary and treasure-r. A committee was appointed to draw up a constitution and to report at the next meeting. Thomas A. Dent was named as chairman of the committee with Ernest H~ughton 'and Cornelius Mahaney as his as- sis~ants; Th~ <;ommittee is to report at the next meeting of the council. I dearly love an island, Out in the ocean blue, But the one that I call my land Is the one named Isle of Yew. Perhaps you've never ~een this isle, The one called Isle of Yew, And yet I'll bet 'twill make you smile, When spelled-! love you. It's great to be an editor, To sit up late at night; And scratch your wool and shoot the bull, And write, and write, and write. ,,I'' ' ',,' !': ,. ,\ I II \.' u ··'.•, l ·•• 1 ,, 1 ... i .·~ '•' i'

' ' .. .' !': .. ,. J, I' f '' . ·:' .t· I ii ·.• 1,' ,: ;,· :.·. / . . . ' . . ' ' •• J j ... ' i ' i .·~ ':' THE CONCORDIENSIS J1JJ· J Jj ·. i JJ jl ~ ... .. THE VICTOR

16 POST~SEASON REFLE'CTION$. A clean slate! Eight victories and no de- feats! Union extends heartiest congratula- tions to Captain Starbuck and his unbeat- en band of sturdy warriors who have made football history during the season just end- ed that has never before bee11 equalled by a Union team. We would not detract in the smallest de- gree from the ability of the teams of bye gone days nor from the brilliant records which the famous teams of 1893 and 1894 made against the larger colleges nor would we belittle the records of the successful teams of 1898 or 1904, which won nearly all their games, in schedules consisting chiefly of the smaller institutions. Those were great teams in the days when foot- hall was a grim contest that fairly tried men's souls and when many of the safety devices of the present day· were unknown. Those of us who heard Doctor Towne, who for many years was physical director at Union, discuss the relative merits of the stars of other days in comparison with men on the championship team of 1914: at the campus meeting on Friday night will agree that the judgment of the old \grads\ is colored by the youthful enthusiasm of their undergraduate days and that there are men in college today who are at least the equals of those men who made U~ion famous twenty years ago. Doctor Towne made one exception when he spoke of the almost superhuman ability of Bill Cronkhite to make long runs through The success of the season has been based upon various causes and has demonstrated a number of important facts. F'irst, the amount of excellent n1aterial. Never have so many high grade candidates been available for every position. on the team and so nearly equal have they been in play- ing ability that it has been continually a matter of difficulty to determine just what men could best fill certain positions and at the same time best fit into the team work of the eleven. This has made possible a remarkable second team which has con- stantly kept the varsity on its metal and has contributed in no small degree to the steady development of the team. The loss through graduation of the many veterans of the class of 1915 will make ser- ious inroads upon the personnel of the team and their places will be hard to fill but in spite of this prospects for next year are very hopeful and we should begin the season of 1915 with a squad of over twenty experi- enced players without taking into account the possibilities of the entering class. Second, Union's consistently growing suc- cess in all branches of sport has demon- strated the value of a settled, continuous coaching policy with the same man con- stantly on the ground searching out mater- ial for the various teams and developing it not merely for the season at hand hut al- ways looking ahead and building for the future. Coach Dawson has proved himself · to be the right man in the right place and is deserving of our highest commenda- tion. a broken field, it being a matter of habit with him to score repeatedly from the kick- off. It is not my purpose to enter into a detailed discussion of the merits of individ- ual players but I cannot refrain from men- tioning Jake Beaver's uncanny ability in catching punts, for at this particular phase of the game I believe him to be the equal of any man who .. ever played football either at Union or elsewhere. Third, I wish to say a word about train- ing. I am convinced that the team has trained more consistently than any eleven we have had in many years and the results have been seen in the way in which we have developed the winning punch in the last period of every game. The movement for stricter training has been amply repaid by the outcome. .· .. t-'· .. 1: ' f !'· t !1 4 'I I! 'I ! l { !,;.·- I' I , ,• ; 1 .: \ I i J r. i ' I i, l ('. ,; t . .._ ;{ ~· fl ;C f F f t r ,. c: ' ] ~ . 4 ' \

\ ; . -.·.· '· 1 .: I i J r. i ' '!' (' ' t . .._ ;{ ~· THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 Fourth, the season has heen remarkable for the increased helpful interest on the part of the alumni. This interest has taken the form of helpful, constructive criticism and practical coaching assistance, of generous financial aid, n1aking a convenient training table available in Silliman Hall and of moral support, which, while not as tangible as the other features still has. a high value which cannot be computed in material units. For this aid we are much indebted to the graduate council. A widespread public interest has been aroused not only on the part of people in Schenectady but the number of those who have come from Albany, Troy, Amsterdam and other nearby cities has steadily in- creased. The largest crowd that has ever witnessed a Union ·football game was as- sembled on Alexander Field on the occa- sion of the Hamilton game and thanks to our improved equipment was quite com- fortably handled. Then too Union has been accorded an un- usual amount of space by the press not only of the above named cities but also by a number of the great dailies of the coun- try. 'rhe New York Tribune devoted col- umns of space to accounts of the N. Y. U. and Hamilton games. This steady widen- ing of our circle of friends is bound to bear abundant fruit in the future development of the college. The renewal of athletic relations with our neighbors, R. P. I., has been a source of real gratification to both institutions and the first football game in t~n years was attend- ed with a spirit ~f mutual respect and courtesy that augurs well for the future re- lations of .the two colleges. A word about the management, a branch of college athletics whose labors are too often overlooked in our estimates of a sea- son's success. Manager Cure and his com- petent helpers have had many new and difficult problems to meet and solve hut these, aided by the indefatigable treasurer of the Athletic Board,have successfully over- come every obstacle with credit to the col- lege and with a substantial balance in the treasury. 'fhe Hamilton game? Well, as Bill Cronk- hite said., \VVhy be afraid of Hamilton? They are only human beings like the rest of us. \\V e have met the enemy and they are ours.\ 'rhe JINX IS DEAD. Peace to its ashes. Incidentally Union has annexed one more championship of the N. Y. S. I. A. U., which is as it should be. S. A. McCOMBER. CONCERNING THE MANAGEMENT. Honor to whom honor is due! Our foot- ball season was a success athletically be- cause of the efforts of Captain Starbuck, Coach Dawson and others, but the financial success is largely due to the efforts of Manager Cure and Assistant Manager Brunet. Manager Cure has stated that, vvhile definite figures are not yet ready, the season has been a great success :financially. About 4,000 people were present at the Hamil ton game alone, this game netting the management over $1,000. The rest of the season is also ahead of last year. In fact, Manager Cure has no hesitation in declaring that this season has been the most successful, :financially, of any in the his- tory of football at Union. Another factor which contributed much to the team's success was the efficient man- agement of the training table by Assistant Manager Brunet. This is the first year that the college really ran its own table, and its success will probably insure its continuation. Five-eighths· of the Dartmouth \frosh\ are deficient in scholarship .. The authorities can give no explanation as ·the entrance exams were especially stiff this year.

•·. ,. ' l ' .... , -.-' . ._.,__ 18 ·rHE CONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS minds are active and whose senses are keen that they may read between these lines and find the true state of our feelings, the true expressions of our inner selves, the essence of that which one would, but cannot ex- A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. ]. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Donald A. Coulter, '15, 3 Regent Street ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, '15 Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood Boulevard ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, '16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 REPORTERS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Karl E. Agan, '15, Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Howard A. Glenn, Assistant Business Manager, Kappa Alpha Lodge. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street Schenectady, N. Y. · THE CLEAN SLATE. press. First in the hall of fame we place our coach, Fred Dawson, the man of grit and determination, the coach of ability and ap~ plication who has developed the most powerful football machine that has ever stamped a Union gridiron, who has worked steadily, consistently and untiringly toward the goal which he has at last reached-the goal of a clean slate. What's the matter with Fred Dawson? He's not only all right-he,s more than all right; he's every- thing that the coach of a perfect team ought to be-and then some. Captain Starbuck, the successful leader, the peerless warrior, deserves much credit for the way in which he has led his team through various battles of the season and for the grit with which he has fought through games, some of which he should have seen from the sidelines on account of the heavy punishment received in previous contests. Defying the many hard blows which have tended often to disable him, he has forgotten illness and pain while fighting on the gridiron for his team and for his college. Hats off to Captain Starbuck, the man and the leader ! ning and leave the rest to those whose after snapping every ball that was snapped Praise and glorification are certainly in order at this, the close of the first clean slate season in Union's proud history, and we take great pleasure in attempting to express to the Garnet football squad of 1914: some small amount of the appreciation which the n1embers of the student body and the alumni owe to them. And yet how weak we find this poor language which we command when we attempt to twist and mould it into a shape worthy to describe and praise the deeds of those who have turned their efforts toward the making of this great episode of athletic history ! We can but make a begin- Next in the line of creditable mention comes Lynde Hokerk, the scholar of foot- ball, the master of the gridiron. Old Hoke, who fought through every minute of every game in 1913, wanted to do the same in 1914, but the fates would not hear of it and • ---~ ·-·-----....._- . ..,.-- .. ,.----.:.:.;, __ ~- \\--~---- ..... - .. ~- -·----------------- -·-r----~•..,_. ___ ... ___ _ • < ' • • __ ._. • • • • ' ' • • ' .. · ' ... '· '\ : ~· ~ .. , ' ..... ' . . 1l t~ e b t f . 1 l 1 1 ( ( .. . J

! ·.' .. >, '\ ' ~· ~· THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 in the first six games, this center of all cen- ters was compelled to retire from the N. Y . . ' U. ga1ne on account of an injury to his knee. While the third quarter of the Hamil- ton game was in progress Hokie half limp- ed, half trotted out on the field and assumed his old position. For this last privilege he begged and pleaded ; in this last game he fought and won. To the man who, as act- i~g captain, often led the clean slate team to victory; to Old Hoke, the fighting pic- ture of clean and victorious football personi- fied, we pay the tribute which his spirit and power deserve. Ray Jake Beaver! This smiling quarter-- . . ~' back of brains and steel is responsible for much of the glory of the season. He played his last game of colege football last Satur- day and it is only to those who failed to ' ..... ' ' see the game that we need say that he was perfect. This season he was called upon the gridiron to fill his twin brother's posi- tion. He filled it completely and that 1s just another way of saying that he played a perfect game throughout the season. Gerry Wood was unable to play the Hamilton game. Perhaps 'tis just as well, for his fame was already known so well that one had only to mention a tackle of sterl- ing qualities and all Union undergrads at once saw a mental picture of the infallible Gerry. We're sorry he didn't play in the Hamilton game and we are more than sorry that we will lose this sure and steady man from our line by graduation this year. The team will also feel the loss of Byron Cleveland, Houghton and Dent next year. During this wonderful season they have rroven themselves to be active units in that grand Garnet machine and we owe to them a large share of our praise and thanks for the work which they have done and done so well. Concerning the rest of the 1914 football team and squad we need only to say that they stood so well by the seniors already mentioned as to leave not a weak spot in the whole machine. And although we lose by graduation several of our best, we still have left many men in the three other classes who are willing and able to uphold Union's reputation on the gridiron next year. Among these, the fine backfield men, Stoller, Girling, Roof, Rosecrans and Mudge deserve special mention. Finally, to the management for their ex- cellent accommodations and managerial ability, to the assistant coaches for their ef- ficient services, to the Athletic Board for . their many creditable works, to the scrubs for their willingness and skill, and to the student body for support unequaled in all past history, we render our thanks and ex- tend our congratulations for the clean slate season of 1914. A CORRECTION. In number six of the present volume of the Concordiensies there appeared an article which stated that Doctor Berg gave a lec- ture on ((Electric Ship Propulsion\ on No- vember 2. As a matter of fact it was Mr. Eskil J. Berg who gave this lecture and not Dr. Ernest J. Berg. We apologize for this mistake, which was due to the carelessness of a reporter. \Mein Friends,\ cried the German orator, \we must go forward since we have burned . our breeches behind us.\-Exchange.

20. THE CONCOR.DIENSIS ':r' CHAMPtO·NS . ~s-~\)· \ \, ' t' ,l . ·~ . /. · r 11. /.\ {.· ·.··.· ': l .. ' ,•,, ·,.

''' ~ :,: ·: I j ~ . :,: ( 'I• •i t •• I, /,\ {.· ·.··.· ,•,, ·,. ,, ' THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CLEAN SLATE Of Donald A. Starbuck and the Garnet Squad of 1914. St. Lawrence ____ 0 Hobart ---------- 3 Wesleyan --·---- 0 Stevens -----·---- 7 Worcester Tech__ 0 R. P. I. --------- 0 N. Y. U. -------- 0 Hamilton ---·---- 7 Union -------- 15 Union -------- 7 Union -------- 7 Union -------- 13 Union-------- 20 Union-------- 24 Union -------- 9 Union -------- 26 Totals: Union 121; Opponents 17. 21 ..

' ' ' , 22 THE CONCORDIENSIS 'PETE STARBUCK TALKS OF SEASON Dent, Rockwell and Aikins, at tackle, and Vroman, Gardner and Alpert, at guard; Nash at center, and Cleveland and Hanson on the ends, day after day put up a stiffer defence than the varsity found in most of its regular games, while Anderson, Stoller and Mudge battered their way to a place of almost equal importance with the regular varsity backs. 'The gritty work of Byron, McNab, Moynahan and Reeves was unfor- tunately cut short because of injuries or sick- ness. The pillars of strength on the var- sity line, men who stood the brunt of the work, filling their places during practically every minute of every game, were Captain \'Pete\ Starbuck, Gerry Wood, Hoberk and Jenkins. The sterling work of these men calls forth the highest possible praise. The guard positions were bitterly fought for by Price, Jackson, Vroman, Gardner and Al- pert. Although Price and Jackson played the greater part of the time, they were push- ed so hard by the other men that they had In reviewing the past footbal'l season, I should say that three things are responsible for the success. In the first place the coaches who worked so faithfully deserve a great share of the credit. Fred Dawson had his heart and soul in that team. Steve Story worked unceasingly from the begin- ning to the end. Bill Smith and Bill Cronk- hite aided in numerous ways. Secondly, the student body should be congratulated for its splendid backing. Their cheering and singing at times when the team needed their help tnost, should be looked upon as one of the in1portant factors. As I said at the beginning of t4e season, \Get back of your team and they will make you proud that you're a Union man.\ You did get back of that team. Now you can see the result. Eight straight .victories. Last but not least, the attitude of the entire team was another big factor. Every man was willing to give his best. Each felt that the other ' men playing with him was his partner and if anything hurt his partner, he felt it just as deeply. The whole attitude can be sum- med up in one word: Unity. It takes eleven men to win a game of football and these eleven men must be working together. The eleven men that were playing in the various games did work together, hence the result. I thank every student for his loyal sup- port of the team, and I wish the captain-elect every possible success. D. A. STARBUCK. REMARKS FROM THE COACH. It was the constant work and unlimited pi uck on the part of about thirty men that won for Union her splendid record this fall. With a second team that refused to accept defeat at the hands of the varsity, the daily scrimmages developed into bitter struggles. Ernie Hough ton, as captain of the scrubs, \\\ras a big factor in the stubborn resistance, and offensive strength of his team. Tom to share the honors with them. Downs and Friday, who filled the position of left end for the first part of the season, were injured, and Cleveland and Aikins became regulars. Girling, Roof and Rosecrans were the chief factors in the wonderful success of the back- field. Girting's ·punting and open field run- ning were remarkable. Roof, as pi unging fullback, has been a tower of strength all season. Rosecrans was also a cracking good line-bucker-but his real value lay in his phenomenal interference for backs carrying the ball and his deadly tackling. Anderson and Stoller-hard running backs-also did their share of the season's grinding. \Jake\ Beaver at quarter (he stepped into the posi- tion when his brother ''Dave\ was stricken with appendicitis) proved to be a wonder. His running back of punts-dodging, smash- ing and driving-gained many a yard for his team. This, with his ability ·:to get every ounce of work out of his backs, com- bined with an unprecedented command of ' ' 1,,' f·, ' !' l\ {.-'·.- ' ' ' ,, ::::_. ,,. 1: (

' , 1,,' f·. I, . ::::_. ' ' , , , .. 1: THE CONCORDIEN~SIS 23 the forward pass,, maks him a quarter-back of the highest order. FRED T. DAWSON. ALUMNI RALLY For Hamilton Game and For Fraternity Dances. There were a good many of the alumni back Saturday for the Union-Hamilton game. At the Phi Gamma Delta and Delta Phi houses, dinners and dances were held. Among those who registered at the Phi Gamma Delta house were Mr. and Mrs. Dan L. \Vood, Mr. and Mrs. Leroy Hayden, Mr. and Mrs. Harry Cook, Mr. and Mrs. Leo Perry, lVIr. and Mrs. C. L. Wood, Mr. and ~1rs. Mason Hotchkiss, Mr. and Mrs. Harry Payne, l\1essrs. Amos K. Munson, '12,; John H. Burwell, '14; Harry Griffin, '12; R. C. Whitney, '13 ; George Halla, '09 ; Milton G. \Vend, '13; Wallace MacMillan, '12; W al- lace Tiedeman, '14; Clinton Jones, '00; Augustine Marx, '04. Present at the D. U. house, aSturday, were William L. Kennedy, '88; J. :B. James, '79 ; W. McTaggart, '15 ; C. P. Andrews, '17; A. J. Snell, '1 \/. Registered at the Psi U. house were D. F. Weed, '09 ; Frank Stevens, '08 ; James Riley, '12; John Sawyer, '99; Harry Schawp, '09; Arnold Chapman, '06. At the dinner and dance given by the Delta Phi after the game were Mr. and Mrs. C. B. IvicMurray, Mr. and Mrs. F. Helm; Messrs. G. Hackney, '15; E. Collinge and R. Vaughn, '14. Many of the alumni were back at the Delta Theta Phi house, among whom were, C. E. Burleigh, '09; F. W. Burleigh, '09; T. B. Bergan, '09; E. J. O'Connell, '11; J. B. Shaw, '12; A. J. McManus, '10; L. Mc- Donough, E. O'Loughlin, M. W. Bray, '11; F. Huntington, '09; C. Moore, '09. Henry Z. Pearsons, '15; Alfred C. Me- neely, '14, and Donald K. Hutchins, '13, spent the day at Alpha Delta Phi. At the Beta Theta Pi house were Paul McQuaide, '14 ;, Hartley Dewey, '13; Walt l\1:cEwan, '95; L. Gilbert, '13; Clarence Fisher, '1..3; William Ladue, '10; James Dunn, '12; Gregory Starbuck, '10, and Mau- rice Black, '03. Doug Whitney '13 was also back for the big game. ALPHA DELTA PHI ENTERTAINS. 'rhe Union chapter of Alpha Delta Phi put a most unique finishing touch on the clean slate season by giving a smoker in the chap- , ter house last Monday. Every Union man was invited and the occasion was greatly en- joyed by members of the faculty, alumni, and many undergraduates. Doughnuts, cider, cigars, cigarettes and pipes made up the list of refreshments. Raymond Blodgett acted as toastmaster and called on President Richmond, Doctor Ma~Comber, Professor Opdyke, Pete Star- buck, Steve Story, and . Lynde Ho- kerk, all of whom responded with good lively talks on the football sea- son and t.he things which are to be looked forward to next year. Knowledge of the fact that Gerri tt Wood was at that time lying disabled in bed tended to cast a cloud over the spirits of those present. Before breaking up and departing for their various places of residence the students present went en masse to the Sigma Phi Place where several rousing yells were given under Gerry's window. Alpha Delta Phi is to. be congratulated upon their readiness and ability to enter- tain their college mates. The smoker proved an ~vent most enjoyable and is something wh1ch every man who attended will always hold dear in his memory. \Was the heroine made up well ?\ \P retty good, only she had to let the smiles creep over her ·face to keep them from stirring up a dust.\

24 PL .. AYERS ( •. t• Tlrtng --------- ... ·-- Roof -------------- Downs ----------- Starbuck ----·----- Anderson --------- Beaver ----------- Jenkins --------·-- Jackson· ---------- Cleveland ----·---- Rosecrans -------- Hokerk ----------· Total -------- THE C0'NCORDIENS1S w·a·o SCORED THE 121 POINTS. Touch- Goals Goals downs- from from touchdown Placement 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 96 11 9 IN WAR OR PEACE Goals from the field 1 3 • • 4 ·- ~. - <=- • - \ -z.:.. SHOT AT SUNRISE Safieties Total 50 12 13 1 8 10 6 6 6 6 3 1 121 • I,' '',: ;,,:, . \ ~ ; :; · .. ( '\' . I ) I • i \ 1-\! i ~·'.· . ' .. ~ { ..

I: :,·;,. ~ ; :; '' ' ·' '\. ' ' ) I - I • 1:} ~·'. '' '.~ THE CONCORDIEN·SIS TO 1\HOSE OF LESSER FAME·. We come not to tell vou of laurels and fame, .. We come not to sing of the glory Of men who have won for themselves a great name In the season's huge gridiron story. But we come to remind you of those you forget When the long yell rings out loud and clear, I Of those who have ne'er made a touchdown and yet Are deserving of many a cheer. Who taught the big team how to play the game right? Who taught them the secrets that tell? Who gave them their \pep\ and their spirit of fight, Which they've used on the gridiron so well ? Who stood a good pounding each day, that the team Might learn all the tricks of the trade? Who pounded our line with a showing of steam That ne'er an opponent has made? And who bit the dust in those battles each day As the 'varsity ploughed through their line? And who stuck it out though, things ne'er went their way, With not a dissatisfied sign? Hail to these men with the grit and the steel, Who have stood all the knocks and the rubs ! · All up for a cheer, let her rip, let her peal! We'll give a long yell for the scrubs. 2S

f' •, 26 THE CONCORDIENSIS NEW YORK TRIBUN.E 'C 1 0.MMENTS ON SEASON. varied its attack, using stra;ght football part of the time and the open game when conditions called for it. Here's what George Herbert Daily, Union '92, Sporting of the Tribune, has to say about the season's record: \It was felt that the open game was fully enough developed early in the season so that when needed it could be called for with good chances of success. But the style of J•lay in which the tea mneeded most devel- opment was straight offence. Results in the Hamilton game proved the wisdom of this course, when after hammering at straight football almost half the game, the team open- ed up after Hamilton was a little fagged. \And now another little cheer for Union. Unbeaten in eight games is a pretty good sort of a recort. Bill Hanna said on Satur- day: 'vVhy don't you go after the Har· vards ?' Maybe we will some day, but it's quite enough for the present to have beaten }Jew York University, Wesleyan, Stevens, and Hamilton,. among others. On a line through Wesleyan, the team is not far be- hind Trinity, Williams and Amherst, either. F'red Dawson, the former Princeton star, aDd his players, to the last man on the bench, deserve much credit.'' STEVE STORY'S IMPRESSIONS OF THE FOOTBALL SEASON. Steve Story in an informal discussion of the past football season, made the following rctnarks about the team, its coaching, and achievements: \Following in the path of last year's team the 1914 eleven began the season by playing wide open football with great stress laid upon the forward pass as a scoring medium. As the early season progressed the coaches realized that the team was de- pending on the forward pass to score touch- downs from within the opponent's 20 yard line. This meant that the team had not de- veloped the scoring punch, the ability to carry the ball by straight football rather than trick play. The coaches realized that tttter dependence upon the forward pass was foolhardy since it was at best never a sure success. \The team has been criticized because it did not run up larger scores on the poorer teams in the early part of the season. This can be explained by the fact that the coaches were putting the eleven through a transition stage to develop the straight aggressive game. The weakest time of this transition '\\ 7 as probably the Stevens game. Then, be- sides the development of a varied style of play, there was room for much individual improvement among the members of the squad. It took time to develop men for the right positions. For instance early in the season \Babe\ Rosecrans, whose build and style pleased the Powers that Be was work- ing out in wrong positions. It was not un- til the season was wei under way that his tremendous line-bucking ability was found out. This is just an example of the devel- opment of one man. Others developed the same way. \So from the time of the Hobart game the team in practice was put to work at ~traight football. The forward pass was ab- solutely dropped and line bucking was tak- en up instead with the results shown in the h.. P. I., N. Y. U., and the first part of the Hamilton game. Before that the team had \Union teams have always been known to he strongest within their own 20 yard line. In former years opponents got the jump on them and it was not till late in the game that u·nion started scoring. Last year's team was a wonderful defensive team but not so strong on offense. This year the condition of things was changed. Union was taught to open her attack early. \Thus we see that the whole season has been a process o fdevelopemnt. Next year the team can go ahead from where it left off.\ '', .. .;,{ ~ . r. ' ·!1 ,: . ··'· i .• ' i' I i< ' L '' 3 ' .. , .. ) ; ,' I: I; ,'

'· . ... ;:f ~ . r. ·!1 i .•. i. I i< . L :· r ( .. ·. .. , .. 0~ ·, I . \' ' . } ) 1, ,' ' I: I; THE CON·CORDIENSIS 27 BASK.ETBA.LL. Now that the football season is over we turn our attention to basketball. Last year Union won the Northeastern Intercollegiate League championship and this season promises to be fully as successful. Besides the league games, several are being arrang- ed with the larger colleges, so many long trips are promised . All of the last year's team are back while several '18 men, especially Mudge, Moyna- han and O'Brien come with good prep school reputations and will be a valuable addition to the squad. The football season has shown the value of a good second team so it is up to every basketball man in Union to come out and help train a winning team. If you can not play you can at least come out and watch others play. Regular practice will begin im- mediately after Thanksgiving. Now, 'long yell for basketball. Come on! INDOOR TRACK. This year Union is going to take up in- door track in earnest. The manager is al- ready arranging for a meet with R. P. I. to be run some time in February and for another meet, out of town later. Active training will begin on the gymna- sium track right after Thanksgiving. Tommy Dent promises be at the \gym\ twice a week to coach any of those who wish it. Some good men were lost last year by graduation, so anybody who can run or thinks he_can, come out and fill up the ranks; freshmen especially are urged to support the team. You may be a runner and not know it. All out for track. Let's make it the big- gest indoor track season in Union's history. THAT SWIMMING TEAM. A general call has been issued for candi- dates for a series of inter-class swimming meets to be held between Thanksgiving and Christmas with a view o£ finding out what material there is for a 'varsity team. These meets will be three in number and the schedule of them wil be given out later. Overtures have already been made hy Williams, Yale, and Cornell regarding swimming meets with Union. If sufficient interest is shown and enough suitable material presents itself the Athletic J3oard will arrange a schedule. It is possible for Union to develop a creditable team with Mallen for a nucleus . Another general call has been issued to students who don't know how to swim but wlsh to learn to hand in to Dr. Mac a sched- ule of their hours. There have been forty- three applications to learn so far. The classes will be held from 11 :00 to 12 :00 Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays; from 2 :30 to 3 :00 Tuesdays and Thursdays; from 3 :00 to 3 :30 Wednesdays and Fri- days; and from 3 :30 to 4:00 Tuesdays and Thursdays. The pool will be reserved for the use of learners only till further notice. MUSICAL CLUBS. Last Friday, the Musical Clubs gave their first concert of the season in St. Mary's Hall, at Ballston. The crowd that attended was well rewarded for its interest, and from fhe performance of the clubs, the season bids fair to be most successful. The program follows: Old Union Beside the Mohawk Vale ---- ------------------- C. ·E. Franklin, '83 Union Marching Song --------- Green, '76 Combined Clubs. White Star March -------------- Bordwell Mandolin Orchestra . Vocal Solo -------------------- Selected Stanley M. Smith . Narcissus ------------------------ Nevin String Sextette. l\ Tragic Story --------~--------- Metcalf Glee Club.

; ,. i' ' ' ( ~ ' \ 28 THE CONCORDIEN,SIS Memoirs D·'Amour --------------------- Holt Mandolin Orchestra. '18. Traps: W. A. Robinson, 1 l'i. Banjos: E. F. Goggin; W. C. Vosburgh, '14; A. H .. Colson, '17; ·G. H. Beckett, '18. Banjo- mandolin: A. Hooper, '16; C .. C. Bowman, '18. Hawaiian Solos ---------------- Selected Mr. Goggin. t.ittle Ton1my Tucker -------------- Bullard Glee Club. Violin Solo-Souvenir de Hayden _, ____ _ ------------------------ Hugo Leonard Mr. Stein. Sanita (1ntermezzo) ------------- Moquin Banjo Club. 1'11 Change the Shadows to Sunshine --- --------------------·-------- Timpoms Glee Club. The Spooks Frolic ---------·------ Bacon Mandolin Orchestra. Alma Mater- Combined Clubs. Those who made the trips were: First tenors: G. E. DeRouville, '16; H. R. Knight, '17; A. E. Hawn, '17; S. W. Talbot, '18; R. A. Schuyler, '18. Second tenors: F. L. Smith, '15; H. B. Allen, '16; R. T. Embree, '16; W. A. Robinson; '17; E. Jones, '17; G. H. Beckett, '18; G. 0. Gilman, '18. First Bassos: G. V. Wood, '15 (leader); R. T. Allen, '16; R. A. Newton, '16; P. Hoag, '18; P. S. Dorion, '18; L. H. Frazer, '18; R. R. Faust, '18. Second Bassos: F. F. Richards (Law) ; S. M. Smith. '15; H. J. Williams, '17; C. T. Lester, '17; C. M. Hendry, '17; W. M. Gilbert, '17; C. C. Bowman, '18; I .. R. Stein, '18. Mandolin Club-First Mandolin: E. F. This week Tuesday the Musical Clubs go to Amsterdam, and on Friday they play across the river (in Scotia.) · Y. M. C. A. ACTIVITIES. At the college vesper . service Sunday, November 15, Rev. W. J. C. Wilson spoke on the '\'Relations of Young Men to Re- ligion_,, In his discussion he mentioned several Biblical characters and the relations of their fives to rel;gion. ~1en who have had an early religious training in their homes, he said, and who possess the rich treasures which the Bible has to offer, al- ways have an ambition, a desire, and an ideal. The plans for the Y. M. C. A. Bible classes and industrial classes are nearing completion, and this work will soon be started. A Student Volunteer conference will be held in Geneva, N. Y., December 4-6, at William Smith and Hobart colleges. Those interested should hand their names to Gen- eral Secretary Story, or Embree '16. There will be several excellent speakers who will discuss the various phases of the Student Volunteer Movement. Entertainment will be provided to all delegates. Goggin ( coa~h) ; F.. L. Smith, . '15; H. B. Marvin, '15; R. T. Allen, '16; G. H. Beckett, '18; M. I. King, '18; S .. H~ Frazer, ,18. Sec-· ond Mandolin: A. Hooper, '16 ; H. C. Dike- man, '16; W. M. Gilbert, Jr., '17; A. E. Lofquist, '18; C. C. Bowman, '18. M:andolas: Frosh--'\'Can you change a dollar?\ Soph........._\N o, I couldn't change my mind.\ Frosh-\What does that mean? You haven't got enough sense?\ GALLEY 4 P. Hoag, '18; L. P. Brown, '18. Mando- cello: R. S. Embree, '16; A. H. Colson, '17. Guitars: W. C. Vosburgh, '14; A. L. Boom- hower, '16 ; C. S. Brignall, '18. Man do ... bass: H. R. Knight, '1 7. Violin: R. I. Stein, THE WAIL OF AN ACADEMIC. Caesar's dead and buried, And so is Cicero. And where these two old gents have gone I wish their works would go. -Exchange. 'I ·' ,, L· ' 1 : )' ' I ,

'I ·' ,, r.' ' 1 : )' ' I , THE CONCORDIENSIS 29 REVISED AND CORRECTED. Oh, wad some power By gift compel I thers to see us As we see oursel' ! Among the studes who ne'er did well, There was a guy named Sam ; He slept through all the morning hours, And never gave a rip. A prof who rudely woke him up, Inquired if he was well, But Sam just rubbed his eyes and told The prof to go to Hades. Maud-\At the seashore this summer I had over a dozen proposals.\ Ethel-\How persistent a summer acquaintance can be.\-Exchange. \Is he very absent minded?', \No but he is the kind of a guy who borrows' your cigarette to light his own and drops yours after the process is completed.\ Mickey Ann: \Announce your own sub- ject, Mr. Brown.\ F os : \War is Hell !\ Mickey Ann: uGo to it.\ First Guy : \Did you ever take econ- omics?'' Second Gent: \No hut I've taken chloro- form.\ Fist Guy: \Oh that has the same effect.'' IN WAR TIMES. Lady Shopper: \Give me some powder, please.\ Clerk: \Will you have tooth, face, bug or gun, madam ?'\' He-uYou ar:e the breath of my life.\ She-\Did you ever try holding your breath?\ SOME ABBREVIATIONS AND THEIR MEANINGS. B. S.-Badly soused. S. 0. S.-Save our supper. R. S. V. P.-Rum still very plentiful. E. M. F.-Every man fails. N. B. A.-No booze allowed. C. 0. D.-Count on dad. There was a young man from Bo-ken For insomnia he took KCN Did this remedy cure? Of that we are sure ! He was dead before you could count ten. Teed : A fortress is something stronger than a fort, eh ? Ted: Not necessarily stronger, but harder to silence, as it were. THE DIETICAN'S DIET. On account of the war putty is high, so is meat. \tVhat are we going to do without meat? The mere suggestion of mule steak draws little more or less than an almighty kick while the mention of -dog sausage brings forth one grand howl. Furthermore we have quarantined stock yards to contend with. The answer is-vegetate. Vegetarianism dates back to the time of Nebuchadnezzar who, so they say went flooey in the gable one day, and got out in ' the field and ate grass with the milch cows and oxen. But you need not fear that you will have to eat grass if no more meat is to

~ :, ,, I .. l •• I ! \' 30 THE CONCORDIENSIS be had. Ah no.! there are too many juicy, nu- tritious vegetables running around loose. The menu below contains some rare suggestions for any candidate for election to vegetarianism :. Dinner is even more interesting than breakfast. .Even those who customarily partake of large portion of the aged steer can't resist it. BREAKFAST. Mock Orange Preene Mush. Stewed Turnips. Parsnip Pickles Beans a la Fricasse. Onion Tea There is nothing more nutritious than prune mush. A pound of prune mush is worth eighteen ounces of cod liver oil and one pound and a half of Dominicker hen eggs boiled for three minutes soft water. It takes prune mush just fourteen minutes and thirteen and one-half seconds to digest, whereas it takes corn beef and cabbage three hours and four seconds, and spare ribs and sauer kraut two hours, eighteen min- utes and fifty-four and two-thirds seconds in the summer and an additional three and one-third seconds in the winter north of thirty-five degrees north 1i ti tude. It is useless for us to dilate upon the beauties of stewed turnips. 'Turnips in the raw are gallumptious, but when stewed words are but feeble things to limn their glories. A stewed turnip is a culinary ca~to, an epicurean epic. Parsnip pickles DINNER. Sea Weed on the Mock Shell Garlic Corn Tassels Spinach a Ia Pryempsl Potato Peels with Mominggeonies Dandelion Mine De Petrograd Artichoke Juice Whitehope Cheese Kale Cigars * * * * Your pseudo scientific-gastronomic ex- pert will probably tell you that this meal is not as nourishing as one which contains meat, but if he does you can tell him for us that he,s a bug and that he can jump in the canal. The dinner above contains exactly 1,800 cal:ories of heat energy. Why, the garlic alone has over 453! It is one of the strongest meals ever gotten up. Look at the wh.itehope cheese f And the garlic J and the kale cigars! Why, you could feed meals like that to the training table and never hear a murmur. Try it at your place of residence and get ready for the worst which is yet to come. . THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. in a way resemble stewed turnips, one being stewed and the other pickled. They are both highly soluble in equal parts of hy- drochloric and sulphuric acids, making · them ideal for weak stomachs and water on the knee. The virtues of the remaining dishes- beans a la fricassee and onion tea-are too patent to require delineation. Sufficient be it to say in passing that all the brain food of the festive bean is retained in this de- lightful way of preparing it and that the wall-known strength of the humble onion diffused into a tea is supremely superior to all the strength you can derive from the eating of meat. Chirp the Third. Now that the football season is success- fully over, save in song and story, we may safely moralize about it. We had a won- derful team which made a wonderful record. We are told that they fought and bled for us, for Union. They did, and we should be properly grateful for their so doing. A student in a class-room discussion recently, bowever, ventured to make the startling and iconoclastic statement that college men engage in outside work for more than a single motive, and that, of many motives, self-interest constituted a vital one. Mind you, he did not confine his remarks to athletics, but included literary and drama- ·~ ' !(:·,';, .. ... : .. ; . ) ' .J i o: •• '• I' .. 1.·. i'. ,. r / ' . ,. \ ; ,. { ·':· \ l I ~. ' ~ ·:··,. ' : ~ .. ,· l !•,· lf: ,. l ( ~; '·· .. ' t . ~ l' ', '•. ( ' ~ ·~ '; 1 f l 1 , . 1 s c

s ·~ ' ' ' • ' 't.~ '' ,. \· : .. ; . ) ' .J i o: •• '• !,·· .. :· J;· .. · !,'·' I' .. 1.·. i'. ,. ,. r .1' ,' ', ·· ... t . ~ l' tic efforts, debating, musical activities and whatnot. There were several representative students present, and mirabile dictu, they concurred with him in his opinion. The Innocent Bystander does not care to take issue in the discussion. He wishes rnerely to present both facts. No one can deny that the spirit of devotion and loyalty to a college is a potent factor in making men do things they would otherwise refuse to do. But neither can anyone deny, that the op- portunity to win physical or intellectual honors, to become conspicuous for this or that achievement is likewise a salient factor. A man's motives may be perfectly sincere. He may go upon a debate because of an hon- est desire to become acquainted with a sub- ject. He may enter athletics because of a real desire for physical improvement. The fact of the matter remains, however, that self-interest is one of the forces,-not the only one, to be sure-but one of the forces which impels him to go out for this or that orga·nization. The question raised is whether the in- ducement just mentioned is a greater one than that of college loyalty. Opinions differ ·with individuals. There is much room for sincere discussion. How about it? THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. Anxious to attend the Dartmouth-Syra- cuse football game in Boston on November 21, but not having the wherewithall to pay $16 for the round trip, '15 Brown students are planning to go shipped in a box car as freight. This will only cost them $4 each both ways. The rooters are in earnest and have already begun negotiations with New York Central railroad officials. Some spirit 1 is it not? Thirty-four students at Columbia U niver- sity were arrested on Election D·ay on a charge of illegal registration. THE KIDS LAMENT. Those Union men must be hard up; Or else they're awful sore, What are they so tight about? Y e can't help bein' poor! The first darn game I ever missed Oh, gee, I could a swore! Since they put canvas 'round the field, Y e can't see nothin' no more. 31 The Interfraternity Council at Williams has forbidden \the running of raffles by fraternity men among freshmen until the end of the rushing season.\ No temporal restrictions should be imposed; canvassing for raffles among the freshmen should be prohibited unreservedly throughout the col- lege body. A pamphlet has been issued at Williams entitled \Fraternities at Williams.\ Be- sides presenting a history of each fraternity it sets forth the general purpose and scope of all secret societies. AS' mother of Greek letter societies, such a pamphlet would not be out of place at Union.

32 THE CONCOIID1ENSIS FRESHMAN PEERADE DECLARED WHY DOESN'T DOME AGAIN TRY IT? GREAT SUCCESS. A Missouri editor has gained twenty- seven new subscribers to his weekly paper by threatening to publish the name of the young man seen with his sweetheart's head on his shoulder i£ he did not come across with his subscription. The twenty-seven sneaked in and paid their dollar, while sev ... eral others have written that they would pay the next time they cam.e to town. No one needed to go to Europe to learn what is doing in the world, or consult the library's \'Who's Who\ to learn about dis- tinguished persons, on last Saturday, as the freshman \peerade\ started on its way from the gymnasium down Union Street. The \\peerade\ was all that Chairman F. Brown and his committee promised. Starting from the gymnasium it filed its way down Union, over N ott Terrace to State Street, and then down the main thoroughfare of the city to the canal bridge, where it reversed its route and arrived on the R. C. Alexander Field shortly after 2 :00 o'clock. The peerade was lead by the college band and after the fresh- men came the three upper classes. f!~re lies the body of Bridgetine, She started the fire with gasoline, It made her work lighter, We hope her life's brighter, On this planet she's ne'er since been seen A frosh was called on in Bible to repeat the twenty-third psalm. P _rof.-\Mr. Cohn will kindly recite for us David's beautiful shepherd-psalm.'' Frosh-HThe Lord is my shepherd, Ish ... kbihble.\-Lehigh Burr. Wesleyan will meet Williams and Am-. herst December 11, in a triangular debate on the question of the government ownership and control of the telephone and telegraph~ The costumes were striking in appearance and the take-offs on college life and inci- dents as well as upon the affairs of the state and nation were humorous to · a high degree. In line were General Joffre, Kaiser Wilhelm and the allies walk- ing arm and arm, backed up by their armies of over a million men each. Villa and Car- ranza were followed by \Teddy\ and Barnes. The G. 0. P. elephant, representing theRe- publican landslide, held its own. 'then came \A Little Fairy,\ Fritz, Annette Kellerman, Anna Pavlowe, worth being seen, Miss Fatima and the \Beaver Twins.'' There were take-offs on the English Club, Press Club, Cosmopolitan Club, Stoll's \Free- ology,\ Phi Beta Kappa and Kappa Beta Phi. HLife in Sing Sing\ and \I stole a loaf\ was followed by t4e greased pig, the prize for the pig-chase. One man from each fraternity and three from the neutral body tried to win the prize, but Chappeau of the Pyramid Club finally won the chase and was presented with the roasted pig by Chair- man Brown, of 1914 \'Peerade\ Committee. One hundred and thirty prisoners in the federal penitentiary at Leavenworth, Kan- sas, are doing correspondence study work with the Kansas State Agricultural College, r . i I l I 'i. I . l' ' \

I ·; I I l I . . ~ ,· ,{ f. , .. )~ l' ' \.•1 If ')'OU want anything from QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just T e I e phon e 12 8 5 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases 8teefel Broa. ALBANY, N. Y. -IF- You. feel that a custom tailor is the only man that can put true distinction in to your garments-you are laboring under the wrong in1pressior1. If you think that a custom tailor is the only man that can give you an exclusive pattern and weave-once again you're wrong. And if you think that a custom tailor can give you nearly as much value as \Steefel's\ can-we're afraid you'te wrong again. If your thoughts run in the above channel, drop in and see us-and we'll put you right. Suits and Overcoats $10 to $60. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. All the Latest Novelties in WALL PAPER AND DECORATIONS Sun 5 & lOc Wall Paper Store 411 STATE STREET. Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454- J. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. WATERS, Custom Tailor 156 BARRETT STREET Imported and Domestic Woolens 15% Reduction to Students For samples and prices, aee ROBERT N. LANDRETH College Hill, Phone 1915-J YOUNG MEN!· Step Into a Pair of Our SURE-FIT Shoes Here we picture two of the newest lasts for younl' men who keep apa.oe with the shoe fashions. Correct tor coll.eg~, school or bl}.sl.n.ess. Natty enough for dress wea.r. Values like these are only pos1ible in a metropolitan B t o r e like Patton & Hall's. PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST. Below the Brlqe.

;. {: \ ' I i '. i ', l ' ' i ' More College News J.N THE Read It Every Day GAZETTE Yale and Hardvard, Each 9 in. x 24 in Princeton, Cornell, Michigan, Each 7 in. x 21 in. 4-PENNANTS. SIZE 12x30-4 Any Leading Colleges of Your Selection All of our best quality, in their proper ,colors, with colored emblems. Either assortment, for limited ti:m.e sent postpaid for 50 cents and five stamps to cover shipping costs. Write us for prices before placing ()rders for felt novelties of all kinds. . The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. Nott Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake,. Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258- J. L. SCHWARTZ Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N. Y. There is no Music Like Giocia's Orchestra 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. A Gift that seals friendship- Your Portrait THFJ STVDIO OP 241 STATE STRE£T OV EP. PATTON&, HALL The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET. A Complete Department Food Store. The Best in Everything for the Table at the Lowest Cash Prices. QUICK, ACTIVE SERVICE ED, T·HE· BARBER THE BARBER SHOP FOR UNION MEN Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store I. LEVINE Merchant Tailor, lfJ7 jay Street. Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. Favored by the College Boys. '-; '') ,; ·~ i; ';: /J i\· '!. i !' ' ~ ' . .. r ! ) li I( 't

.. r ! ) li I( 't Bellinger Paint Co. ~' . ~··~ Walk-Over shoes will take ~! . - you anywhere and back. PAINTS, OILS LET' YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishel 212 So. Centre St. Walk-Overs. Schenectady . 407 State Street, A R Z , • , ' Q h . furnished music at Union College 1905 . . Ita s rc estra 'o6, '07, 'o8, '09, 'IO, .I I, '12 '13 & '14 Best Dance Music in the World H. a. PHONE Main 3483-W Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., Albany Only the Best Service. None Better for Co11cert TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Stteet Solicits Accounts of Students R. Wirth, Union '18 Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. 135 NOTT TERRACE Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $18 to $35. A.GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Ave.s. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded , Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620· W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eyea Tested and Glosses Fitte~ THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography \Watch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street.

' ' . I ' ' ' I ' j ; I \ l j ; I l ·V : I . I ; t ., ' ; i I I I f 1 I I ' j ! I ~ l l 1 i l ; \ \ ! l i ! l l : I I • ~~ In every walk of life you'll find good old \Bull\ Men of action, men with red blood in their veins, who do the world's work, and do it well. leam to appreciate things at their real worth. They are not fooled by frills-they demand hone3t value. These are the millions of men all over the earth who find complete, healthful enjoyment and lasting satisfaction in \Bull Durham hand~made cigarettes! 'G£NUINE \BuLL DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO These fresh, fragrant cigarettes they roll/or them- selves, with their own hands, to their own liking, from ripe, mellow •• Bun·• Durham tobacco, suit their taste better than any cigarette they can buy ready-made. •• Bull •• Durham hand ·made. ciga- rettes are a distinctive form of tobacco en· joyment- wonderfully comforting and satisfying. Their freshness and ftaoor are a revelation. Roll a cigarette from \ Bun·· Durham today . FREE An i~luatrated hooklet, . showmg correct way to 11 Roll Your Own• Ciga· rettes, and a Book of cigarette papers, will both be mailed, free, to any address in U. S. on postal request. Address 11 Bull 1 Durham, Durham, N. C., Room 1298, THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO~IPANY A•lc lor FREE. 6oolc of .. p\Gpcr•'• uitla eaela 5e •aelt. \ \ I I \\ J ) - I' ' '·-'

\ I ~ ' '·-' THE UNION of a Sophomore or Freshman with a few dolars which will stay by him until he is a Senior can be · effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savi:ngs Bank COR. STATE A'ND CLINTON The Edison American Plan All Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 Edwin Clute, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. A Union Pennant with 'a picture of the \Gym\ painted on---75c The Gleason Book Co. 104 Jay Street Gleason Building \On your way to the post office\ THE MOHICAN COMPANY 1 I Clothes Economy Leads to the Outlet Brokers to Tailors to the Trade. Special sale of uncalled for Tailor Made Suits and Overcoats including our entire stock of Full Dress Suits at $12.50 THE OUTLET 140 JAY STREET, Wally Girting Johnson and Murphy Shoes Kirkpatrick Shoes Opposite Van Curler Sweaters and Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union Room I & II, Middle Section South Colle~e Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N.Y. '' i

,j 'I , . I . 1) , I ; I H ''I . f. ) 1 '• I !' •, •· ·'' ~~· 'f ~i :.~ I i ' I ~. f j, '· l ! I , :; • 1 ' ',. ·' ' ,. 'i The Schenectady Clothing Co. Clothing for College Men Stein-Bloch and Hickey-Freeman Suits and ·Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upwarrl Full • Dress Acceessories JUST WRIGHT THE SHOE OF A GENTLEMAN Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at all times Metropolitan Styles The Schenectady Clothing Co. 313-315 State Street Telephone 91-W Geissler & Ryan NEAR STATE ON JAY. The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FIN£ CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354- W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL Shoes THE LEWIS DINNING ROOM Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State 154 BARRETT ST., near State Meals, Table de Hote Breakfast 6:00 A. M. Luncheon 11:30 A. M. Dinner 5:00 P. M. Sunday Breakfast 8:00 A. M. Dinner 12:00 M. Single Meals 30c Sunday Dinner SOc 20 MEAL CARD $5.00 Home cooked meals prepared of the best things to eat, cooked and served in a clean and J sanitary manner. Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street 1 Re H Sr T T s 1 4 -

Stoll's Ho/brauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms ·by Day or Week. Telephone 1'938. MAX NOW A, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. H. J. Schwartz Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made .. to-Measure Clothing at less .than \Ready-Made\ Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. 9 Proctor's Arcade, W edgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. 1-Iallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. -····-~-------------- C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. Phone 4489. . IN A HURRY HEN IT RAINS . OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS High Grade Laundry get the KILLIP LAUNDRY QUALITY 719 STATE STREET, 'Phone 759 Schenectady, N. Y. SPALDING'S for nearly forty years-have been the ones to think out, and put on the market, things reallv n~w in sport. Are you posted on just what's new this year? A G S ld • & B 126-128 Nassau Street . . pa Ing TOS. 520 5th Ave., New Yorl1 Send for Catalogue S. A. Hamilton GROCER 841 Union St. Phone 2540 MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 335 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHlPPE.D CREA:M, OUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office\

i,' ' ; l l ' ! . 1 l I' SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN I dl +• ._. M?H iiif$MA*M«Effi'mMf!WMNNMM *I ii *W&N w Made by Hart, Schaffner & Marx *W 4 'W*WH M!!IJffiA§filqWJ iQPiaMWff¥ 1 eta'¥'M1t~@l€'#8ibW##fi\WM :!itii1'i'f\i!\P\ Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Styles, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailors. College men like these clothes better than any other clothes made and the men of Union are. showing us that they do. We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us time. 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Schenectady ~ Art Press ~~ m rn [ ~ ~ ~ ~ ;• ·~ '• '• · .. ~ i ... : -~~ lj. i ,:,,,:i' [ .,. .. '. I.·· l,· ., . f J;' • ' ;' ~. . .: ~' ' ·' \'' . i .· [ .. ' ' 1 1'-'?i .. , . '; I f [ ., l ? . [ I

