.. ·VOL. 38

UNION UNIVERSITY Cl-IARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LLe D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate· and graduate courses: 1. Cetuses leading· to the degr(\e of A. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-Students may, at the dose of the Sophomore year, elect to becorne candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Cou.:rse leading to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN -SciENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of B. S. SciENTIFIC CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4.. Course leadblg to the degree ot B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising tnathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pr'o- fession and some training in history, econotnics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studieso ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Coo.rses leading to graduate d~fl,'rees. COURSE LEADING TO DEGREE OF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work L. V\ Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W CouRSE LEADING ro DEGREE oF M. S. E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CoURSE LEADING TO DEGREE OF PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis~ sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full infor:ma~ tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA ] . P ARKER 1 } • NEWTON FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years ; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $I 10. For catalogue or other information, address: JOHN C. W A'l'SON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full in formation, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ALFRED B. HuESTED, Secretary, '• &:very thing for the College Man except Exams'' GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS 727 N ott Street Across from College Gate Middle Section, So. College Phone 1472-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate ( ] ',·,

f TRADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LATEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoea .are worn. All styles and leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WALL STS. The Cain's Leadinil exponents of Modern Dancing in ~chenectady and VJi ,~ tty. . .. ~ New Pupils .. ~ :··~ received every 1\fon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9p. m. Pri- vate Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phone 2710-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS r~9ja; 3 ~:;:t CompanY EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3159 E. & W. Shirts and Collars, F ownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men. I' ' q 1: 1). , I' . \ll I I . '. ;I •

Babbitt Clothes Are far superior to the ordinary ready made cloth,es because they ar.e the equal of the finest custom tailor's output. We are sole agents in this tri·city territory /or Rogers Peet Co. and ''The Frankel Fifteen'' (The greatest $15 clothing proposition ,in America) BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We .are .not living in the stage-coach decade, at wh1ch tlme the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think nf traveling as o* did in by-gone days. Neither would you ha v- ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. , BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 438 State Street Opposite Jay Street , Free Order Service Telephone 3456 ' Higgins' ( Drawinlllnka I Eternal W ritinat Ink Enatroasint Ink l l Taurine .Mucilaato Photo Mounter Paate Drawinl! Board Paate Liquid Paate Office Paate Veatetable Gluea etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BE·ST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. -- -· --- - AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N.Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER PAVORS 31 Steuben Street, j t . ~.· .•. ~ .. It t \ I I i l I . i I

There is a Great ~ Difference in Tobaccos Tuxedo is the Mildest, Sweetest, Most Pleasant Smoke in the World, Because- Firs i-N o one but the makers of Tuxedo is willing to spend the money necessary to buy the ;mildest, choicest,, most thoroughly aged, St!lected Burley tobacco. Second----No one but t~e makers of Tuxedo knows how to treat this Bur- ley tobacco so that every bit of pleas- antness and goodness remains in the tobacco and every bit of unpleasant- ness and harshness is taken out. Tlze Per/eel Tobacco /or Pipe anJ Cigarette Tuxedo was born in 1904:. Its first imitator appeared two years later. Since then a host of imita- tions have been born and are clam- oring for your patronage. No £mz\tation is ever as good as the or-iginal. No amount of advertising, no amount of bluster and blufl, can ever make an imitation tobacco as good as Tuxedo. If you are not a pipe smoker, you are denying yourself the greatest smoking pleasure known to man. J'ry Tuxedo £n your pipe this week. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenient pouch, 5 inner-lined with moisture-proof paper C Famous green tin, 1 0 with gold lettering, C curved to fit pocket In Glass Humidor•, SOc and 90c FREE Send us 2 cents in stamps for post- age and we wiH mail you a souvenir tin of TUXEDO tobacco to any point in the United States. Add.ress THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY Room 1299 111 Fifth A venue New York V. STEFANSSON famous explorer • • Tuxedo i:s mild, cool and soothing- ju:st the :sort of tobacco I need. Tuxedo · goes with me whereoer I go. ', G. RANDOLPH CHESTER famous author • • Why :shouldn 'I a man be willing to recommend a tobacco which give:s a:s cool, :sweet and satisfying a :smo/ee aa Tuxedo;»'' J. N. MARCHAND famous illustrator \Fill my pipe with Tux- edo and I'm content. You can't beat Tuxedo for mild- d ., 1111 ne:s.s Gn pun ). ~~-· 0 <

Say Fellows: .Bring in your laundry and save money Note these Prices: Shirts all Kinds ..................... lOc : Collars ................................... 2c : Barrow's Hand Laundry 738 State Street We Sol'icit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Makers of Caps, Gowns and Hoods To the American Colleges and Univeraities from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty UNION STUDENTS The Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited .... Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street To Cure Cold BUY A GAS HEATER ~·J • MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' i\rt ~tnrt No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady, N.Y. t.'• 11 [.__U \-..IT W£.,;\j~ · 'JH'i>l\fi:V Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. ''I I J F. !' ,, ,, [, I ,) ' l II, '· ] !, .I \ r ' : ,; .. }·

:• Clothing Furnishings . Hats • KEELER'S ----EUROPEAN---- HOTEL and Cabaret at 9 P. M. We're ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? , Broadway and Maiden lane Albany, N. Y The newest and best in each department. ~ Wells & Coverly TROY ''If It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' m Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires m Alling Rubber Co. !29 State Street 26 Stores CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. Fine Imported and Domestic Woolens Telephone Z323- J GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.\

Ready to Wear and Custom · Made :STYLIS·H CLOTHES Comparison is the , Lever That Turns , Trade Our Way · · FOR Y·OUNG MEN This is the busiest store in Schenectady, thJough inviting Comparison with merchandise you see e~lsewhere, where quality, fabric, :superiority of workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to a Ill College Student is yours for the asking. 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases ~f $10 ·01' over if .this ad is presented at the time of purchase. 503 - 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm .. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N.Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called for and ·Delivered Pree The Union Electric Quick Sboe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Mam.ager. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few p()pular items: Men's soles, sewed ________ 75c Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c Ladies' soles, sewed _______ 60c 1ien's Heels _______________ 25c Men's soles, nailed ____ 50 to 60c Ladies\ Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________ -------- _ ----- ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 CARL DANNER. Beta Theta Pi N· EAR BAR·NEY'S Colle•e Repreeentative 1908 191.( 1915 ROW SHIRTS are in every style suitable for city or country, frolic or function. The colors are fast, the styles smart and right-the patterns correct-insist on the label. $1.50 and up Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. Makers ,.,__ ________ ..,..,_ ............ ....... ..... __ Let's Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining • Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ·ORDERS DELIVERED One Mittute from Payne Gate. Back of St. Jobn's Church. 'Phone ~98-W. 722 Eastern Ave. -- - VOL. The :: ed in r defea1 Techr oppor ially undot but fc ' when 1 ·~~ over ;f) .;·' .. were . .~ .. Th~ when tain · when mom4 cleve: and : more and ~ while T., la He a lon Woo . cess14 Hou~ and baskc 1nore Hou~ tallie er m

The Concordiensis VOL. 38 JANUARY 14, 1915 NO.lO THE M. I. T. GAME. Season Begins With Huge Victory. The 1914-'15 basketball season was open- H ed in a very auspicious manner when we defeated the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, scoring 52 points against our opponents' 14,. ,Our quintet played espec- ially well for their first game, and would ! undoubtedly have rolled up a larger score, l but for the fact that three subs were sent in, when we had already gained a safe margin ,~ over our oponents. The New Englanders ;f) t ', were heavier, but not skillful enough. . .~ '. The :first basket was made by M. I. T., when Houghton lost the ball. Our cap ... tain partially redeemed himself, however, when he scored a point on a foul, and a moment later, netted the ball, after son1e clever passwork by Haubner, Dave Beaver, and Houghton. Haubner then made two more points, when he failed on a long shot, and scored by a follow-up shot, taking it while in the air. Captain Morse, of M. I. T., later made a point on a free throw. Houghton netted the ball, after getting a long pass from Beaver. Dave scored, and Woods netted the ball twice in quick suc- cession. Morse then scored for M. I. T. Houghton succeeded in making a foul shot, and Dave Beaver score·d from beside the basket. ·our tally was now sixteen. Two 1nore points were added to our score by Houghton on free trys. Shortly after Smith tallied two points for M. I. T. Dave Beav- er made a pretty field basket, followed by a similar performance by Woods. The second half was opened when Hough- ton made a free throw, and Woods followed up by a field basket. Smith and Hough- ton were both successful on foul shots, and Vv oods made a sensational shot over his head, his back to the basket. More ap- plause was won when Dave Beaver caged the ball after a dribble the whole length of the court. Rausch made a pretty shot from the field, and Houghton later scored on a foul try. Jake Beaver made two field baskets. The ball was now in the vicinity of our basket, and Woody scored. Dave and Jake Beaver then added four more points to our total. After Hough ton and Jake had each tallied again, Coach Dawson sent in Mudge for Haubner, and Girling for Dave Beaver. Shortly after, Scoby was substituted for Jake Beaver. Smithe scored on a foul try, followed by Miller with a field basket. Scoby made his basket, and Gi rling and Flaugh ton scored. The game was ended .. Hudson displayed the best form for M. I. T., and Rausch played a good game. 1v1orse, the captain, was called out of the game, after 4 personal fouls had been called on him. Our men were all in fine form, though V\T oods scored the most field baskets. Jimmy Mudge, '18, played his first 'varsity game and showed good form, despite his lack of experience in collegiate basketball. I-Ie bids fair to becom,e a very valuable man. The line-up and sun1mary:

' ' ! ·, . •i 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS UNION. F.B 1'-I aubner, l.f. --------- 1 jake Beaver, r.f..____ 4 Scoby, l.f. ---·------ 1 Mudge, l.f. --------- 0 V\ 7 oods, c. --------- 6 Houghton, Lg. _____ 4 Girling,. r.g. -------- 1 D. Beaver, r.g. _____ 5 1~otal ------------ 22 M. I. T. F.T. 0 0 0 0 0 8 0 0 8 T.P. 2 8 2 0 12 16 2 10 52 F.B Sn1ithe, r.£. -------- 1 Rausch, l.f. -------- 1 Miller, c. ---------- 1 Kendall, l.g. ------- 1 Hudson, r.g. ------- 1 F.T. T.P. 3 5 1 :3 0 2 0 2 0 2 Total ----------- 5 4 14 Referee-George Tilden. Titne of halves -20 minutes. Score at end of first half- Union, 22; M. I. T., 7. Fouls called-Union, 9; M. I. T., 13. ENGLISH CLUB CELEBRATES CHRISTMAS. Ceremonies Similar to Those of Ancient Times. The English Club, according to its time honored custom, gathered its members to- gether in the club's rooms in Washburn I-Iall for a Christmas celebration on Fri- day evening, December 18. Before the Christmas exercises took place the club en- joyed the initiatory exercises accompanying the reception . of Prescott Cleveland of the 1915 class into the organization. Doctor 1:-Iale, the president of the club, being dis- guised as a stork, ushered the Neophyte in baby clothes into the club room where the tnembers were assembled for the strenuous examination which Mr. Cleveland had to pass before being formally greeted as a fel- low-member. The examination disclosed the facts that \Peck\ has much love and reverence for Doctor Nott and John How- ard Payne, the founders of the English Club; that he disapproves of examinations, is fond of writing poetry., is proficient in the literary art, has often been swimming in the Erie Canal, likes mathen1atics and cheese sandwiches and loves the Lord. This examination proving satisfactory, Peck was put through other ordeals and, having come out successfully in these, was admitted to the English Club as a member of good standing. Following the initiation, the Christmas exercises began in the usual manner with the president's reading of the verses discov- ered by the club's archivist, Willis J. Han- son, Jr., and supposed (by him) to have been written by John Howard Payne. '\rhe verses are as follows: 'Twas a week before Christmas and all thro' the college All the students were eagerly seeking for knowledge, From freshman to senior the studes of all stations Were deep in preparing for examinations. 'fhey sought after knowledge in all sort of \Vays .A.nd devoted thereto both their nights and their days. Sotne sought it in books, and some sought it of friends, Some sought it in note books, and old odds and ends Of papers, and tried to make sense of some sort Of the chaos of marks that had once stood for thought. Some sought it at Joe's, and some sought it in bed But all sought to stow it away in their head That being, as now it is well understood, '\fhe only sure place where 'twill do any good. But I de He So: So Toe .l\n< As So I lc An I l Or Ar I St th be tr~ gc S1 cc

n 11 d 0 1 THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 But I such small matters had wholly forgot I depend for such things on my chum, Dr. Nott. He gives me the tip a:s to what I should do, So I leave it to him and I hope I'll get through. So I sat by myself and was smoking the weed Too peaceful to write and too lazy to read. .And as I was thinking there struck on my ear A sound which you've only to listen to hear. ( Cound of Claxon) So I ran to the window and looked all around, But nought be seen on the snow covered ground, I looked all around, I looked here and looked there And then heard it sounding far up in the air. (Sound of Claxon again.) I have it said I, I am sure it's Old Nick Or Santa Claus coming, and so I stepped quick And looked up the chimney- and under the shelf I discovered a friend, who will speak for himself. At this junction, Saint Nicholas Morton Stewart came down the chin1ney and taking the various trinkets from his pack stood before the beautifully decorated Christmas tree and distributed them to the various good little boys assembled there. Charlie W·aldron received from the good St. Nick a beautiful little A. B. C. book, ac- companied by the following verse: Quoth Charlie while writing: \Concarn it! \This spelling I never can larn it. \It's kat with a k, \And enjine with j. 'fhey say no maid can bind him No matter how she try, But tonight at last we've got him \iVith an everlasting tie. Luther Hagar was the next recipient of a present in the form of a stick, accompanied by these beautiful lines: Hagar teaches mathematics That the young idea n1ay learn About sine and cosine functions c;leverly its mind to turn. Some get first grades, others seconds, And the thirds wil have their share .r\ few fourths, some will get passed by But the \sticks\ are everywhere. lJ seless gifts should have no entrance To this modern Christmas tree Therefore with a Merry Christmas Please accept this stick from me. Santa Claus next announced a wireless n1essage just received from the English Club's sincere friend, Franklin P. Adams, who had hastily composed the lines belo'v for the special occasion : Nix on John Mase:field and Yeats! Why not read Horace and me? Aren't you tired of Noyes and his mates? Nix on John Masefield and Yeats! I privately think that their fates Are as empty as three minus three. Nix on John Masefield and Yeats! Why not read Horace and me? F. P. A. Austin Martin received the next present in the form of a dear little horse with the poem that follows : The Clerk of Skenectade. A clerk ther is of Skenectade also And unto Englisc hath he long y-go. He is not lene as is a rake, I trowe, For hardily he nis nat undergrowe. A lerned man, to ben a tutor able; · \I can't get it straight, gol darn it!\ Tommy Dent received o lovely necktie from the Reverend Saint, with an inscrip- No hors he hath, ne nevere hadde, in stable. 'rher is no man no wher so studious; I-Ie is the beste scaler in his hous. tion as follows :

i' I 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS By him thei al from studie ben preserved; ~'Lat Austin have his swink to him re- A little stein r give you_, I hope it won't outlive you, served.\ For hi mis wont to have at his beddes heed 'Twenty boxes clad in bl:ak or reed Tk . d _, .,,, .. \ a e care 1t · on t convtve you Hail Vozzy! Here-'s long life. Of Chaucer, Langland, and their poesye (Fy on that cours! it was not worth a flye) Plesaunt he is, wei taught in gentilesse This clerk is cleped Tubbe, as I gesse. After reading this St. Nick announced a cablegram from our esteemed friend, Wil- liam \V atson, I've slain the Kaiser with a sonnet, 'I was writ in strict Italian mode, And now I come to think upon it, I've sunk his navy in an ode. The Uhlans in blank verse I slaughter In numbers that no man can tell, To curb the caitiff Teutons' hauteur, I launch my deadly vilanelle. I've picked off Junkers at my leisure In couplets of no little worth, And in a fine Spencerian measure I've wiped Franz Joseph off the earth. Friends of poets ! for your meeting Not a stanza dare I write. I'd send you quite a fervid greeting, Did not my poems kill at sight. w. w. Jeff Del champs was the happy recipient of a bale of cotton, accompanied by the lines following: \Concordy Jeff\ is from \Alabama The cotton state of Uncle Sam, So listen now to its Christn1as tale- Of our surplus crop, \Buy a Bale.\ Little Warren Vosburg was not forgotten by dear Santa but was presented with a beautiful little stein, accompanied by a verse. To Warren Chase Vosburg. Dear V ozzy do not blame me This verse is sure to shame me It does not in anyway \became\ me But duty must be \did.\ May something- e'er be in it, No matter how you \drin'-' it \H 'b b fi . \ ·. aec om1 us re us n1t My duty has been Hdid.-'' Mickey Ann, in his absence, was crown- ed with a wreath of glory. Steve Story was given a horn all his own and advised to toot it himself. Chuck ~culver received a beautiful little coffee pot~ Jeff Atkinson a new pipe, Spike Hale a box of Condax cigarettes, which were long and lean and white as is the ribbed sea sand and Spike and various other members found similar presents too numerous to mention awaiting them. After enjoying an excellent Christmas feed, the members of the club adjourned and scattered to their various resting places, where they dreamed of Doctor Nott and John Howard Payne and mince pie, and were happy. The following is qu.oted from the Vindex, Elmira Free Academy, Elmira, N. Y. : \The Cafeteria is now open to the students again. * * * We will all miss our cashier_, Mr. Alpert. You couldn't hurry him up with a stick of dynamite, you couldn't fuss him or tease him, and you could never catch him in a mistake. We are glad to hear that he is making good at Union College. Here's luck to 'Iskv.' '' ., ALLISON-FOOTE DEBATE TOMOR- ROW NIGHT. The annual Allison-Foote prize debate be- tween teams of the Philobathean and Adel- phic societies will take piace Friday even- ing, January 15th, in the college chapel at 8 o'clock. The subj.ect for debate will be of interest at the present time. It is: \Re- solve situa~ State Socie omat 1'h Adel~ B. E with Philc '18; Jacol Tl1 ing : and batel tend: effor ner I later will tearn c( the ( Jant 18. Uni< . p1on floo1 Unil spe<: ball last u 'vhe to 7 hoV\i Ith<1 edt spu1 . stve gav~ c wor . pou

,, : THE CONCORDIENSlS 13 solved, That, in view of the present world situation, the army and navy of the United States should he increased.\ The Adelphic Society will uphold the affirmative, the Phil- omatheans, the negative. 'rhe teams representing the societies are: Adelphic: James L. Fitzgerald '15, Spencer B. Eddy '18, and Raymond S. Blodgett '15, with Marvin I. King '18, at alternate. For Philomathean will debate : C. Foster Brown, '18; Milton H. Sternfeld '16, Aaron M. Jacobs '16, and John R. Riley '18, alternate. The teams are well matched, both hav- ing men experienced in 'varsity debating, and a good debate is looked for. The de- baters will be very grateful for a good at- tendance as a sign of appreciation of their efforts. This debate will be the forerun- ner of the 'varsity debates scheduled for later in the year, and from these two teams will con1e the nucleus of the 1915 'varsitv ., team. CORNELL, 24; UNON, 18. Cornell won a well deserved victory over the Garnet basketball five Wednesday night, January 6, at Ithaca. The score was 24 to 18. Cornell's weight wore down the lighter Union quintet, and the intercollegiate cham- pions showed better team play and faster floor work. The result was no disgrace to Union, though the team, in the opinion of spe<;tators, did not show the kind of basket- ball it is capable of, or which it displayed last season. Union threw a scare into the Red camp 'vhen the first half ended with the score 10 to 7 in favor of the visitors. In the last half however, the superior condition of the I thacans began to count. The score mount- ed to a tie-14 to 14, and then with a final spurt Cornell drew a way and three succes- si:re baskets toward the end of the game gave the victory to the Red. Cornell's ability to break up Union's pass work was responsible for a number of points. Brown, the phenon1.enal forward, and Lunden, captain of the tean1, each de- posited three shots in the basket, while Haberle and Ashmead scored twice each. Erny Houghton, Jake Beaver, and Teedy Woods each tallied twice and Dave Beaver rang up one basket. Erny Houghton had slightly the better of the argum·ent in caging goals from fouls, scoring 8 out of 10, to Brown's 4 out of 8. CORNELL Position UNION Lunden -------------------------- Haubner Left Forward. Brown ------------------------ J. Beaver Right Forward. I-Iaberle -------------------------- Woods Center. Jandorf ----------------------- Houghton Left Guard. Ashmead ----------------------D. Beaver Right Guard. Goals from field-Lunden, 3 ; Brown, 3 ; Haberle, 2; Ashmead 2; J. Beaver, Woods, I-Ioughton, 2; D. Beaver, 1. Goals from fouls --Brown, 4 out of 8; Houghton, 8 out of 10. Personal fouls-Haberle, 3; J andorf, 3; Ashmead, D. Beaver, 2; Haubner, 3; J. Beaver, 1. Referee-T. Thorp, New York. Umpire-Dollard, Syracuse. Timers-· Lem:on, Cornell, and Keating, Union. Time of halves-20 minutes. Attendance-600. AN ANSWER TO THE INNOCENT BY- STANDER'S FIFTH CHIRP. Communication. Editor of the Concordiensis: I have often read and en joyed the chirps of the very mysterious \Innocent Bystand- er\ and think some of his criticisms excei- lent but, concerning his chirp of December 10, about the \Grind I wish to make a chirp myself. His position in the matter is not very clearly defined and hence attack upon it is rather difficult but, after reading the article carefully, I have decided that The Innocent Bystander wishes to defend the Grind. If this is his true position, I should

14 THE CONCOR.DI:gN;S.IS suggest that his title be changed and that he be hereafter known as The Ignorant By- stander. Since the so-called Inocent Bystander of- fers no definition of the Grind I claim the right to define that species of organism to tny own satisfaction. A Grind, to my no-. tion, is one who leaves the responsibility of a11 college activity to others and devotes all of his titne to the pursuit of book-learning $ and in the enjoying of the privileges and pleasures which the labors of less selfish persons have produced. It must be noticed that according to my definition a man may get first grades and still lie wholly outside of the realm of the Grind, provided he d~­ votes some of his time, no matter how little, to the upbuilding of something in college activity which will make college life as a whole worth living or be of real benefit to the college. As for the abjective \greasy which is often used in connection with the '\\ 7 ord Grind, there was never a more fit- ting '\\ 7 0rd invented to describe the appear- ance and manners of those oily individuals so few of which exist in our college com- tn unity here at Union. The Innocent Bystander says that in some cases the Grind is first in paying his class dues after graduation. What a change a \dip\ must bring then, if we accept the statement of the Innocent Bystander as a true one! For, who will question my state- ment that the \greasy\ Grind is always the last to pay his obligations while an under- graduate? In fact I feel safe in saying that most Grinds never pay their class taxes while in college at all. If the Innocei1t By- stander still wishes to hold to his position of the Grind's preculiar pecuniary loyalty after graduation I wish to call for his au- thority on the matter. As for the so-called remuneration of -vvhich the Inoncent Bystander speaks I wish to say that the Grind does very little of this but rather finds p1easure in the things which others have labored for. Sel- don1 do we see an athletic game without finding a Grind or two among the specta ... tors, but would one of these men go out for the tean1? If he did, he would cease to be a Grind. You will find a Grind sitting in his roo111 on 'thursday evenings chuckl- ing over mistakes in the Concordiensis, but will he go out for the Concordiensis Board and try to n1ake the publication better? No, rather will he borrow a friend's copy in order that he might criticize the labors of less learned but more earnest men. And so it goes throughout every department of college life. In the class-room alone does he shine and then how he does gloat over the failures of his less elfish class-mates! How he grins with satisfaction when those who have labored to make colege life more than a m,ere existence fall below the marks while he stands out in the glory of his grease. Some say that the Grind is a necessary evil. I agree that he is an evil but hold that he is absolutely an unnecessary one. Who doubts me? Does the Innocent Bystander? lf so let him chirp again and let anyone else who admires the Grind speak up and I pron1ise to all a prompt answer. THE ANTI GRIND. UNION DEFEATS WEST POINT 21-12. Union -defeated the Army at basketba1 last Saturday by a score of 21 to 12. The game \vas fast and interesting though the Schenectady quintet had things their own way throughout the contest. At the end of the first half Union led by a score of 10 to 2, but as in the Cornell game their opponents spurted in the second half and played equally as well as the Sche- nectady five. This inability to sustain a fast cJip augers badly for Union and the obvious reason is lack of condition. Lack of condi- tion lost the Cornell game, and had the Cadets shown any form at all in the :first half, lack of condition might have made the outc< As it of ty Tr time~ poin 1 ing t footl the seasc prov fall may unfo tearr has the eom fooz D Be a, The tnar kets goal play J. E Hat Scol Wo, D. J Eiot T Wa Me' Oli] Bo) Bri1 ~1o, I-1o1 l-1it Col

... g ? ! THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 outcome very different in the Army game. As it was the Cadets came within one point of tying Union in the second half. This chirp about 'training may be ill- timed and may be wrong, but evidence points to that flaw in the team~ Remember- ing the in1portance of training to our recent football team, and taking into ~consideration the difficulties of the present basketball season a word of this kind may find ap- proval, and the strenuous tn'ethods used last fall to keep our athletes in perfect shape, n1ay be re-inaugurated now. It would be unfortunate to allo'v the present basketball tean1, which is certainly the best the college has known and may be better than the college will have for a few years to come, to go wrong and make even a slight fooz1 e of this very important season. Dave Graccus Beaver and Jake Graccus Beaver showed sensational work for Union. Their passing and fast footwork were re- tnarkable. Each brother scored three bas- kets and held their opponents down to one goal. The five got in good teamwork, and played throughout a fast, clean game. UNON. F.G. J. Beaver, r.f. ------ Haubner, l.f. _____ _ Scoby, 1.£. --------- W J oods, c. ---------- D. Beaver, r.g. ____ _ Eioughton, l.g. ____ _ 3 1 0 0 3 1 Totals ----------- 8 ARMY. F.G. Waldron, r.f. --·---- F.T.' 0 0 0 0 0 5 5 T.P. 6 2 0 0 6 21 T.P. 2 2 Totals ----------- 5 2 12 Referee-Ton1 ,.fhorpe, of Colun1bia. Um- pire--l\tlr. Deering, of Manhattan. Time of halves-Twenty minutes each. The University of Rochester has dropped out of the New York State Intercollegiate Athletic .Union. PLANS FOR JUNIOR WEEK. Fourth, Fifth and Sixth of February to Be The Dates. Chairman C. F. Brown of the Junior Protn. committee, and Chairman A. D. Wil- son of the Sophomore Soiree committee, pre- dict one of the best Junior Weeks in the his- tory of the college for this year. The com- mittee of 1916 has gone to great ~xpense in obtaining McKee's orchestra of New York City to furnish the music at the Protn. and the sophomores have contracted with Gioscia of Troy for their dance. Clever pro- grammes are promised for both nights and buffet luncheon will be served during inter- mtsston. Chi Psi, Phi Gan1ma Delta, and Phi Delta 'rheta have decided to hold house parties, and several other houses are undecided as yet. On the sixth, Saturday night, the 'varsity will n1eet Springfield Training School, which had one of the best college teams of last year. rro make T unior Week a fine sucess as all \' Union College activities have been, it is necessary that all students give their hearty co-..operation. This co-operation n1ust be individual and each student must look ahead to do his share. Let's all see to McTaggart, r.f. ____ _ Oliphant, l.f. ______ _ Boye, c ------------ Britton, c. --------- 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 F.T. 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 it that this Junior Week surpasses all other 0 festivities. I-Io\rell r.g. _______ ... I-Tobbs r rr . ·.o· -------- 11ibbs 1 o- ' 'b' ---·------ Cole, l.g. ---------- 2 2 0 0 0 Bro·wn, Dartn1outh and Willian1s are con- sidering for their annual triangular debate the question of raising the standing army of the United States.

16 THE CONCORDIEN,SIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by TRE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. ]. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Balier, '15 Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood Boulevard STAFF ARTIST Thomas P. Keating, '15, 322 Germania Avenue ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, '16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 REPORTERS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, ~17 F. W. Porter, '17 . H. R. Knight, 'li' Rudolph W. Schwartz Xarl E. Agan, '15, Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Howard A. Glenn, Assistant Business Manager, Kappa Alpha Lodge. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street Schenectady, N.Y. ('rhe editorials in this issue of the Con- cordi ensis are from the pen of N. A. Finch, '16.) :CONCERNING BASKETBALL. In truth it was a well deserved victory that Cornell won from us in basketball. Our tean1 received courteous treatment, impar- tial officials were provided and we were beaten by a better team. From West Point vve came away triumphant by a good major- ity, .although in the second half the Army came ·within one point of tying Union. Failure to keep up with the fast pace set by opponents was evident in both game~ \'Ale are proud of our basketbal team and appreciate their work and this is surely no time for criticism. Nevertheless we wish to emphasize the importance of team-work, unity and training. It was the combination of eleven or 1nore men working together as one with the mutual idea of sacrifice of in.- dividuality for that mighty attainment, team work, which more than any other factor, n1ade a successful football team this fall. There is a strenuous basketball season ahead and in order to 1neet this season suc- cessfully the team must be in the pink of condition physically and every man on the team n1ust have an attitude of mind to put everything aside but the sucecss of the team and to work for the one end-another championship. U'ndoubtedly 've have the best basketball five that we have ever had and we also have a1nple material in the squad to give the 'var- sity hard gruelling training. We will meet teams of larger calibre than we have hereto- fore and we have one of the best basket- ball coaches in the country. There is an abundance of real Union spirit in the student body and a spirit of appreciation for the team. Truly everything is in our favor. If good feeling and unity exist in the squad what do we lack to make the 1915 basket- ball season the best we have ever had ? THE ALLISON-FOOTE DEBATE. Not so many years ago, when our fathers were here among these san1e old walls much prominence was given to debating. Literary societies were organized, those which were pre-etninent and which have survived to the present day being the Philomathean and the Adelphic. These societies are now strictly debating societies. i. , ok ~eg ar~ . tn~ be co so ol~ sp pc ~ a~ o1 w eJ h e: S' a v t t . 1 ( . ( 1

, er m e t THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 The Philomatheans and Adelphics in the oid days had rooms in South and North Col- ~ege respectively which were furnished with extensive libraries and memorials of famous metnbers. The debates and pursuits of liter- ary advaucement served as excellent train- ing for many sons of Union who afterward became famous as statesmen, politicians and college presidents and the memory of these societies has always remained dear to these older Union men. name in the collegiate debating world. The subjects for disputation in the re- spective rooms of the societies were varied, passing from questions concerning the Civil War and the politics of the day to such as ''Whether gallanting the ladies be advant- ageous for students,\ and \the desirability of ladies making overtures for marriage.\ Interest in the debating societies gradually 'vaned, perhaps being supplanted by a deep- er interest in Greek letter fraternities, per- haps by interest in athletics until at the pres- ent time the student body shows very poor spirit in supporting these old organizations and our collegiate debating teams. The Philomathean and Adelphic are links which connect the present day Union with the .union of the past and were organiza- tions for which Union was known and noted in those days as we are known for our foot- ball and basketball teams today. If there is one thing above all others that distinguishes a college it is loyalty to all the activities of the institution. Debating needs the support of the student body. Not only is there a need for more men in the debating societies and more men to try out for the collegiate debating teams, but there is a crying need for personal recognition of work rendered by the debaters who defend our As a last word remember the Allison- Foote debate tomorrow night. It is the joint debate of the Philomatheans and Adelphics and has been an event of the winter term for twenty-five years. Support it as an im- portant undergraduate event. TAKE IN JUNIOR WEEK. The faculty has seen fit to set aside two days in 'February as a social week for the college. The social activities of Union are important or the wise pedagogues who strive to lead us over the intricate paths of higher learning would assuredly not relin- quish t-vvo whole days to us. The prime event of Junior Week is of course the Junior Prom, which will be held on the night of February fifth. Chairman Brown has divulged the information that the Pron1 this year will be a dance rivalling the Senior Ball of last June in magnificence of decoration, music and other arrange- ments. With a large New York orchestra, novel seating arrangements and dancing until 3 :30 the Prom promises to be the very best affair of its kind ever held under the auspices of undergraduates. Furthermore the committee for the man- agement of the Prom is endeavoring to make the dance this year a college dance rather than a comtnitte dance. We should support it, therefore, as a college function, as an atheltic event. For is it not true that the reputation of the college rests oh the success of social functions held by it as well as on the success of other activities? If ·doubtful whether you can go, on ac- count of financial stringency, it would be far better to economize along some other line

18 THE CQN.CORDIENIS:IS for the Junior Prom is the one big event of th~ year. Those who have been to Jun- ior Proms will come for they know that a good time is awaiting them-those who have not been to Junior Proms will be in no way disappointed if they do come. Sup- port the college dance, the Junior Prom. Support the men in charge of Junior Week. tra ted the effect of rythm upon the human emotions. The popularity of this year's Spencer lec- ture course was amply demonstrated Wed- nesday evening, January 7, by. the large at- tendance at Dr. Palmer's lecture on Chaucer. The speaker urged his hearers to take poets just as they found them. He explain- ed his statement by saying that if he found a copy of Chaucer in an ash barrel and took it out to read it without previously knowing what kind of work it was, he would immediately recognize its high poetical worth. THE ICHABOD SPENCER LECTURES. 1\he first Ichabod Spencer lecture took place Tuesday evening and was a general view of the subject of poetry, which Prof. Palmer will treat in greater detail in his suc- ceeding lectures by taking up particular English poets. Chaucer was shown to be one of those few great poets, ~hose special adjustment enabled them to reveal to the world their own temperament. Each has what might The speaker referred to himself as a \sturdy and enthusiastic. amateur\ in 1i tera- ture and urged the audience to add some intellectual endeavor to the enjoyment, which is the primary purpose of his lectures. He explained introductorily that the con- ception that lies behind poetry is that of the beautiful and the ugly, not the true and the false. ''Poetry,\ he said, \has nothing prin1arily to do with truth.\ The speaker next explained that poetry has no special aim to teach. A true poem will, indeed, bring about a higher moral tone but its primary object is beauty. Dr. Palmer justified the existence of poetry as a means of discipline for the imagination, as a means of enlarging one's ability to understand the feelings of others. In youth the sentimental attitude leads us to poetry to find our 1noods, whereas it would be unworthy for a mature n1an to seek enlargement of his moods in poetry. The last reason for reading poetry is that it brings back the freshness of the early world and restores our eagerness and zest for life. Dr. Paltner concluded his Ie·cture by read- ing several poetic selections which illus- be called a gospel and the poV\rer to give forth vividly a point of view of his own. No age of English poetry has such variety as our own. Each poet is a power in hu- man life and his point of view becomes a starting point for those who come . after. To one following the thought of these mas- ters, will be seen the unfolding of the Eng- lish mind and the philosophy of the race. Geoffrey Chaucer held the simplest of these view points. He held a mirror up to the world, desiring for the multitude of men and won1en to be seen in it. His delight is in p1cturing the n1anners and customs of the multitude. Dr. Pahner warned his hearers that Chau- cer treated all people alike, saying: \If you come to Chaucer, you must come as a thor-_ ough democrat.\ What is known of Chaucer's life was briefly told and selections read from \The Book of the Duchess,\ \Trolius \The Legend of Good Women\ and \Canterbury Tales.\ I~ast evening Dr. Palmer spoke to a large and attentive audience on the poet Spencer. 'This evening the lecture will be based on a study of Herbert. F cha s son 'ClVl ( n't ( fit ] by . JUl sa' fet: W< ex C< th S<

'THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 First Senior: Well Sayrah,s out of a chapel job. Second Senior: Yes. Let's try Jeff Atkin- son out and see how good he is .at answering civil questions. Customer: I don't want this suit; it does- n't :fit. Clerk: What do you mean-the suit don't fit or the fit don't suit?-Ex. Don't forget to read \How to and Why,\ by Meade Brunet and Garry Wood. He is a weak junior who doesn't take ~n junior week. Bill Darrovv was around the other day. Bill says he's put the Ford up for the winter for fear of being run over by a bob-sled. That was thoughtful of Bill. \I didn't make the trolley cars crowded,\ exclaimed Mr. Si1ns of United Traction Company fame, \the passengers crowded them of their ovvn accord. There was a wise man from Kalizer; Than he there was not a man w1ser \I'm neutral,\ said he, \As all men should be, For I don't care who licks the Kaiser.\ A. _B.-Why do you put your watch in soak so often? B. S.-It's a Waterbury. Spike Hale and Jeff Atkinson were con- versing near the bulletin board. ''Mutt and Jeff,\ whispered one freshman to a friend, as they passed by. Did you ever notice the kind of guy that always gets on the car ahead of his friend unles it's a pay-as-you-enter? \What made that fellow sick after the holidays?'' \His fraternity brothers gave him the grip.'' MISSION STUDY. Classes in mission study will start Mon- day, January 18, in Silliman Hall, at 7 P. M. The comn1ittee has taken particular pains to secure a line of interesting courses of study. Come around and give it a trial. ~d:ake your horizon world-wide and get a glimpse of present day history in the mak- . 1ng. HOKERK ELECTED PRESIDENT. At a meeting of the senior class in the chapel last 'ruesday, Lynde Hokerk of Glov- ersville, was elected president of the class, an office which carries with it men1bership to the Terrace Council and the presidency of the student body. \Hoke\ has always been a popular lead- er among his classmates and has won great distinction on the gridiron for his level- headedness and nerve. Not only is \Hoke·\ to be congratulat~d for the honor which has been given him, but the class also is to be congratula_ted upon having a man of his calibre available to assume the executive of- fice at this important time when the class is getting ready to leave the college as a body of organized al un1ni. Congratulations to \Hoke'' and to the class of 1915. Seventy-three per cent. of the students at Bro'Nn are fraternity n1en according to re- cently cotnpiled statistics.

20 C;QLUMBIA AGAINST MILITARISM. A Vital Question for College Men. A meeting of the students of Columbia University was held December 17, for the purpose of learning the attitude of the un- der graduates concerning increased arma- ment for America and to express disapproval of the propaganda for militarism which the popular press has been advancing. A resolu- tion, which declares that the students of Columbia -University are opposed to mili- tarism in general and an increase in our army and navy in particular, was passed by the student body without a dissenting vote. Some of the speeches made at this meet ... ing appear below : Mrs. Charlotte Perkins· Gilman, the noted feminist author, lecturer and editor, in her remarks said : \The theory o£ peace through armaments has been exploded once for all by the present European situation. The one sure and definite hope of permanent peace is the extension of the federal principle into international relations. A body of federated nations is not a distant Utopia, but the one presssing need today, and the only thing which will maintain the integrity of the smaller nations.\ \I have been reading in the newspapers that our army was some thousands short of its war footing,\ said Professor George W. Kircbwey, former Dean of the Law School. \Why should America be required to go on a war footing? There has never been a time when there has been less need of preparation for war. The United States has not an enemy on the face of the earth. uDefence, defence they cry! But every army that ever _existed has been for defence. Remember that the militarists play with fire. The thing is to be stopped here and now. When they say we must bring our military equipment up to efficiency, it means that we enter on the road that leads to war. We should remain a great power only until the ~orld makes up its mind to put an end to American militarism.\ ,,orhe next time anyone tells you that a cannon is made to keep peace, you tell him that a eannon is made to kill men.\ This was the observation of Mr. Leon Fraser. \The agitator's argument that our security lies in being stronger than any other coun .. try, will hold equally true for every coun- try beside us. 'The creation of \natio11al security leagues\ in this country will mean the creation of \national security leagues\ in Japan. If today all had four guns and to .. morrow eight, we would be relatively in the same position, but the increased burden would lead eventually to bankruptcy or an explosion.\ Dr. Carlton Hayes, Professor of Modern History, said : \Western Europe has man- aged to keep peace for forty-three years, although gradually increasing its armament each year. The burden of militarism became unbearable and the present war followed. After the outbreak of the war I had one comfortable feeling when I read that all na- tions insisted that this was The Last War. .A.nd yet in December, 1914, just three months later, we are told that the great les- son for us is that we in America must em- bark on a sea of militarism. Let us be ra- tional. Who is going to attack us? There is bound to be peace in the United States unless we deliberately give offence. There is no need for a defensive armament; there is only need for armament if we want to provoke a war. \One of the great questions for the com- ing generation is going to be this question of militarism, and it is the duty of every student in our colleges_ and universities to make his decision and declare where he ~tands. If you go in for militarism don't be satisfied with mere sops-demand ten thousand deradnoughts and innumerable submarines; but if you think this country can maintain peace without force of arms, cast you lot with us.\ Tl cern it is one thin] he i~ usn we~ diffe vita1 we: . post A the 1\tlid the the sity for to [ . posJ A levi . reg1 . 1na1 . 1n1n A his the ans wir col1 bo) pre he ans mo aca 1 . 1s r pre wh

1•,· TNE GON·CORDIEN1SIS 21 This is a movement that certainly con- cerns every college student in Atnerica and it is necessary for Union to go on record one way or the oth:er. Let every 1nan think it over and decide for himself whether he is for or against militarism and then let us make it known to the public just where we stand. It is impossible for us to be in- different on the subject. The question is vital and calls for immediate action. ShaH we fall in the ranks with Columbia or op- posite her? FRESHMEN WILL DEB.ATE. A debate between teams representing the freshmen classes of Union College and Ivriddlebury College has been arranged for the middle of March. The subject will be the same one as was used by the Union 'var- sity team last year--\T·he Minimun1 W ag·e for Women and Chiidren.\ The debate is to be held at Middlebury and try outs for positions will be held in the near future. A part of the debating tax of 30 cents levied by the student body was collected on registration day, but the gteater part re- tnains unpaid. Payments should be made in1mediately to the various class treasurers. . THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. Chirp the Sixth. Ask the boy why he goes to school and his answer will be a simple \to learn.\ Ask the boy why he goes to high school and his answer will be a trifle more complex. l-Ie will say that he goes either to prepare for college or to use up the remainder of his boyhood until a busines opportunity is presented. When finally we ask a man why he goes to college we receive a multitude of answers. Men seem to go to college for al- most every conceivable end-professional or academic. . The college has by-products, and Union 1s no exception among them. The 1nain by- product of a college course is the culture which one derives through a four years' as- sociation with other men. We have come to divide ali humanity into two classes-· our- selves and '\'rough. !-las it ever occurred that there might be a valid defence of the '\rough-neck?\ Doesn't it seem as though the man born amid squaiid surroundings didn't have a chance to begin with? The polish of culture tnay be the most despicable thing in the world or the finest thing in the world, ac- cordingly as the polish is applied. If a man assume the polish of culture in an heroic attempt to blot out whatever of innate roughness there is in him, then he deserves praise. Somehow we like to see the man with the greatest handicap win. A chap that is a roughneck, that knows he is a roughneck, and who tries to outgrow it is the right sort of a chap. Let him who n~ver puts his feet on a chair in class, who never attends class in a sweater, who is always shaved and manicured, etc., etc., step for- vvard and gainsay. THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. ONE RECENT ADDTION TO FACULTY. A change has recently been made in the faculty. Mr. Edmund Tilly has been secur- ed as German instructor. Mr. Tilly is the son of \¥. 1~illy, head of the famous Tilly Institute of Berlin, which is well known throughout Germany, France, England, and the United States as the exponent of the phonetic method of language teaching. For the past several years Mr. Tilly has been his father's first assitant. Mr. Tilly studied at the Classical Gymnasium in Marburg. HOKERK'S ENGAGEMENT AN- NOUNCED. There promises to be few really and truly single men in the senior class by the time con1mencen1ent rolls around next June. Lynde DeForest Hokerk, the hero of n1any a hard fought football battle, is the latest to enroll hirnself in the class of those will-

22 THE CONCORDIENS'IS ing to assume the burdens of two through- out life. The future Mrs. Hokerk is now Miss Hazel Moyer, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Charles l\1oyer of Herkin1er, N. Y. Hokie is a m.etnber of the Delta Upsilon, a senior in the electrical engineering department and one of the most prominent men on the hill. He played center on last year's famous foot- ball team. To him and Miss Moyer, the college extends its best wishes. PRESS CLUB NOTES. The Press Club has started another plan to increase its efficiency. The plan is to have the officers of the various oollege or- ganizations and the prominent students at- tend, at different times, the club meetings. In this way the college men will become bet- ter acquainted with the system of the Press Club, while the club will be able to get into closer touch with the activities on the hill. The five dollar a\-vard offered for the best design for the Press Club poster stamp will be made as soon as the winner can be selected. The stamps will then be printed and put on sale at a moderate price. Th1s is not a money making idea, but a plan to advertise Union College. Every student should show enough spirit to buy some of the stamps, and stick them on letters and papers, or wherever they will do the most good. The Press Club is certainly doing good work in getting Union known to the public, and it is the duty of every loyal Union man to co-operate with the club in every way possible. You can co-operate by buying stamps and ·using them. PREXY'S DATES. Most of Doctor Richmond's engagements for the month of January are as yet unset- tled. However on January 15 he will attend the dinner of the National Institute of so- cial sciences at the Hotel Astor inN ew York City and on Sunday, January 31, he wil] preach at the Emma Willard School at 'Troy. TliREE CONCERTS FOR JANUARY IS MUSICAL CLUB'S PLAN. l\1anager lVIacMillan has mapped out a program for the l\1 usical Clubs for the month of January. The first concert of the new year is to be given in Lansing burg, on the evening of January 15. ;Qn January 25, the ,clubs will make their first public ap- pearance in Schenctady. The combined .clubs will perform in the Schenectady High School under the auspices of the class of 1916 of that school. This will be the only concert in Schenectady, previous to the Junior Week appearance of the clubs. It is hoped that many of the fellows wiH avail themselves of this opportunity of hearing the clubs. The chtbs will give their annual concert in Albany, in the Madison Avenue Presby- terian Church on January 28. Besides these concerts plans are under way for a trip to New York. The favorable criticisms of last year's concerts and the work of this year points to this season as one of the most suc- cessful in the history of the clubs. THE 1916 GARNET. For some time the Garnet Board has been getting up steam and is now ready to burst forth in a veritable explosion of energy, activity, and all that goes toward the mak- ing o£ the best Garnet \since Methuselah was a pup'' and to this end it invites and urges the co-operation of all. The tax: due from the juniors will be thankfully (if promptly) received. \A GARNET for the tax\ as C. J. Caesar said while watching for a taxi. But money alone will not make a Garnet. Contributions of all sorts are so- licited--representative snap-shots from the \hill\, fruits of the artists' pen, short stories, poen1s, and good jokes. There's a chance fort ity t re,v: E forE giv( are the Ma . saH to · hoc yot so. thi ( sta dn at TI12 . lS I Co da ab . e1~ De m: te: of a ar he d< 81 et . e1 A rr tl A a

at IS a on ' of he lS ail to a o- THE CO·NCORDIEN1S1S 23 for everybody with artistic and literary abil- ity to get busy AT ONCE and help and his d '11 b \ G t \ re,var wr ·. e some.· arne . Y. ·M. C. A. PLANS INDUSTRIAL CLASSES. How good are you at teaching English to foreigners? Haven't ever tried? Why not give it a wallop and do some of the men who are not as fortunate in their knowledge of the King's English as you are a good turn? Maybe you are not good enough at the said English to teach it, well the surest way to find your errors is to try to show some- body else the right way and incidentally you'll know something about it yourself- so you see there is a handle on both ends of this. On Sunday, Fred H. Rindge, Jr., will start our industrial campaign by an ad- dress at the Vesper services in the. chapel at 4 :30. Rindge came here last year and n1any of the studes will remember him. He is one of the secretaries of the International Committee and will be here Sunday, 1\tlon- day and part of Tuesday. Last year we had about fifty men apply for classes of for- eigners. Why not as many this year? Don't miss the demonstration class at Silli- ma~ Hall on Monday night. Rindge will teach an Italian, who doesn't know a word of English, the first lesson and will not use a word of I tali an in the process. Come around and see how it is done even if you haven't any idea of trying it yourself. Also don't miss Rindge's talk in the chapel on Sunday afternoon. By the way, maybe you don't believe in encouraging immigration-ignorant for- eigners coming over here and driving the Americans out of work, etc. Well, all the more reason to improve the intellects of those who are already here and assist the American people in absorbing an \undesir- able element.\ KEEP THEM ALIENS OUT. Ezekitel, the Puritan Th~s lifts his protestation ''By ginger, I'm American Aod don't like immigration I j·ust guess I got here fust, And know what I'm about, When I declare, we'll all go bust Or keep them aliens out. Max Heidelburg, the German says: \Yah also, right, mein frendt If -ve dot foreign trash admit Our woes will nefer endt I an American as you Und villing to ge-. shout 'H -array mit red und vite and plue U11d keep dose aliens oudt.' \ Ike Dimondstein, the Jew exclaimed : \Ah Izzy, aint dat grandt! V e Y angus haf such nople aims U nd vill togeder standt V eve got der goods, vere nachrelized Vat hinters us from shouten 'Atnerican vich is civilize·d So keep dose aliens outert !'\ Petro Bariboldi says, \Here every man in King I cacha da fun, I make da mon I lika da everything .A .. Jnerican he gentleman- \V atcha da dago shout 'Se1a da fruit, shina da boot, Keepa da alien out.' \ Th_e Irishman vorcifirates, ''Sure, Mike its sahft as Jelly I ''11 take the shtick and crack the pathes Of I very foreign Kelly If 1ts the call o' polyticks 'Then I'm the la'ad to shout Down wid the Dagos an' the Mick An' keep th' aliens out.' \

I I i ,I I II I 24 'THE CONCORDIENS'IS But covered with ancestral tan Beside his \\tvigwam door The only real American Counts idle talk a bore \tJgh! Paleface man he mighty thief 1\fuch medicine taik about 1t heaps too late for Injun chief 'To keepum alien out.'\ CONCERT COURSE. 'l'he second concert of the Union ·College concert course will take place in the gym- nasium on Tuesday, January 19. Mme. Julia Culp, a charming Dutch singer of modern lyric songs, and ·Conrad Bos, an equally prominent pianist who will play solos as well as accompaniments, are the musicians. Undoubtedly the concert will be an ex- ceptionally enjoyable one. Corking building, isn't it? Yep; bottling works. HOW ABOUT IT? Dean Ripton, in illustrating one of his characteristic stories last week in history class, made the statement that the students 'vere not singing the words of Alma Mater the day they were written. Inasmuch as the melody was corrected when our error was pointed out, it would be a good idea to investigate this criticism with a view of correcting any error that may exist. The words should be sung as they were written and not according to any modern version of them. Wellesley students were compelled to flee from the campus to avoid a shower of bricks and stones when a fight broke out be- tween the strikers and strike-breakers who are re-building Chapel Hall. INN·OVATION IN 'GYMNASIUM WORK s,vitnnling has now become an establish- ed part of the regular gymnasium course of the college. In order to obtain a creditable n1ark in the year's work it is necessary to qualify in one of the following grades: . Grade D-1. Breast stroke, 25 yards; 2. Plain front dive; 3. Back stroke, 25 yards. Grade C-1. Breast stroke, 50 yards; 2 .. Side stroke, 50 yards; 3. Front jackknife dive. Grade B-1. Cra,vl or trudgeon stroke, 50 yards; 2. Back dive; 3. Plunge across tank, 28 feet. Grade A_._l. Swim 200 yards (any stroke); 2. Back jackknife dive or _back- ward spring and forward drive (half twist), or forward spring and backward dive (half twist); 3. Swim 25 yards dressed and re- move clothing. (Outfit furnished, oilskin coat, pants and tennis shoes.) Beginning with D the freshtnan qualifying in this grade may go on to the next, etc_ \Eddie will have charge of the try-outs, whjch may be made at any time during the term. i\bility to S\vim is valuable both as a means of recreation and exercise, and often of rendering :first-aid service. The acquisi- tion of the pool has alone made it possible to add this training to the gym. course. __ ...,. ______ 2 1 -------- 2 1 . I. ) ·I 1 ( ' ' l I ! I -

. I. ) ·I 1 ( ' ' l I ! I [j you want anything from QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 12 8~) Anytime Hast;, Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Broa. ALBANY, N. Y. -IF- You feel that a custom tailor is the only man that can put true distinction into your garments-you are laboring under the wrong impression. If you think that a custom tailor is the only man that can give you an exclusive pattern and weave-once again you're wrong. And if you think that a custom tailor can give you nearly as much value as \Steefel's\ can-we're afraid you~re wrong again. If your thoughts run in the above channel, drop in and see us-and we'll put you right. Suits and Overcoats $10 to $60. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. All the Latest Novelties. in WALLPAPER AND DECORATIONS .. Sun 5 & 1 De Wall Paper Store 411 STATE STRE'ET. Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454- J. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. WATERS, Custom Tailor 15 6 BARRETT STREET Imported and Domestic Woolens 15% Reduction to Stu~dents .For samples and prices, see ROBERT N. LANDRETH College Hill, Phone 191S~J YOUNG MEN! .. Step Into a Pair of Our SURE-FIT . Shoes . Here we picture two of the newest lasts for young men who keep apace with the shoe :fashions. Correct tor college, school or business. Natty enough tor dress wear. V.alues like these are only possible in a metropolitan s t o r e like Patton & Hall's. PATTON & HALL 245 STATt: ST. Below the Brld&'••

More College News IN TH'E Read It Every Day GAZETTE 5 FOR YOUR DEN Beautiful College Pennants 5 Yale and .Hardvard, Each 9 in. x 24 in Princeton, Cornell, Michigan, Each 7 in. x 21 in. 4-PENN ANTS. SIZE 12x30-4 Any Leading 'Colleges of Your Selection All of our best quality, in their proper colors, with colored emblems. Either assortment, for limited time sent postpaid for 50 cents and :five stamps to cover shipping costs. Write us for prices before placing orders for felt novelties of all kinds. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. Nott Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258- J. L. SCHWARTZ Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 N ott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. There is no Music Like ,Giocia' s Orchestra 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. i Telephone. A Gift that seals friendship- Your Portrait The Studio of MABELLE PRIMMER 241 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall ·The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET. A Complete Department Food Store. The Best in Everything for the Table at the Lowest Cash Prices. QUICK, ACTIVE SERVICE ED THE THE BARBER SHOP FOR . . ' BARBER UNION MEN Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. ·t The New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Schenectady Specialty-Reasonable Prices, Comfortable

Bellinger Paint Co. ~tt ~ ·ts Walk-Over shoes will take J. ~ you anywhere and back. PA.INTS, OILS LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Dealers ln all kinds of Wax Poliabea ·212 So. Centre 'St. Walk-Overs. · ·407 State .Street, Schenectady A R Z • ' Q h furnished music at Union College 1905 . . . . . . Ita s . rc estra 'o6, '07, 'o8, '09, 'IO, 'II, '12 '13 & '14 Best Dance ·M:usic in t·he World g~~·tt~i!~~::::~e~ 48 ~~e Better for Concert Office and Res., 16 7 Hamilton St., Albany TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL , JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students R. Wirth, Union '18 Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. 135 NOTT TERRACE Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $18 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H .. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Roam 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620· W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eyes Tested and GlA~tes Fitted THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography \Watch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye W arks 116 Jay Street.

The Comradeship of ''Bull'' Durham There is something about ripe, mellow \Bull\ Durham Tobacco that appeals to clean-cut manhood the world over. Wherever two \Bull\ Durham smokers meet, each recognizes in the other a man to his own liking, a comrade in the world-wide brotherhood of \the Makings.\ GENUINE! .,BULL DURHAM .SMOKING TOBACCO ( Enougla lor lort;y laantl•maJe cigarette• in each 5 -cent aack) Millions of experienced smokers find the cigarettes they roll for themselves from pure, ripe &'Bull\ Durham tobacco better suited to their taste and more satisfactory than any they buy ready-made. The rich, fresh fragrance and smooth, mellow flavor of &•Bull\ Dur- ham hand-made cigarettes af- ford healthful enjoyment and lasting satisfaction. Get the •• Makinge •• today Uld learn to ••roll your own.'' A•k lor FREE book oF \paper•\ with each 5c •ack FREE An illustrated booklet showinl( how to •'RoB Your Own,\ and a Book of cigarette papers, will both be mailed,/ree. to any addreas in United States on postal request. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY Address inquiry for free Booklet to \Bull .. Durham, Durham, N. C .• Room 1298. -

--------~~------~------------~~--------------------------· THE U. 1 NION· of a Sophomore or Fr-eshman with a few dolan which will stay by him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savings Bank CO,R. STATE .AND CLINTON The Edison American Plan All Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 A Present Brought .: From I ·. your college town to your home town is · sure to be different from the rest. Drop · in \On your way to the Post Office'' and look over our Leather Books, Quotation Calendars, Christmas Greeting Cards and other Holiday necessities. The Gleason Book Co. Ed:win Clute, Prop. S h t d N Y l 04 Jay Street Gleason .BuildinG' c enec a y, • • · • \On your way to the post office\ THE MOHICAN COMPANY: ' ! Clothes Economy Leads to the Outlet Brokers to Tailors to the Trad~e. Special sale of uncalled for Tailor Made Suits and Overcoats including our entire stock of Full Dress Suits at $12.50 THE OUTLET 140 JAY STREET, Wally Girling Johnson and Murphy Shoes Kirkpatrick Shoes Room I & II, Middle Opposite Van Curler Sweaters and Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union Section South Colle~e Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N.Y.

The Schenectady Clothing Co~ Clothing for Colleg~ Men Stein-Bloch and Hickey-Freeman Suits and Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward Full .. Dress Acceessories Arrow Collars Oakes'' Sweaters The newest in hats at all times The Schenectady Clothing Co. 313·315 State Street Telephone 91-W The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. .. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354- W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. JUST WRIGHT THE SHOE OF A GENTLEMAN Metropolitan Styles Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, .. N. Y. ENDWELL Shoes THE LEWIS DINNING ROOM Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State 154 BARRETT ST., near State Meals, Table de Hote Breakf .. st 6:00 A. M. Luncheon 11:30 A. M. Dinner 5:00 P. M. Sunday Breakfast 8:00 A. M. Dinner 12:00 M. Single Meals 30c Sunday Dinner SOc 20 MEAL CARD $5.00 Home cooked meals prepared of the best things to eat, cooked and served in a clean and J sanitary manner. Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street T - Re: H. Sn T 1 4 3 -

Stoll's Ho[brauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices .. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Weeke. Telephone 1938 .. MAX NOW A, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. H. J. Sch artz Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at less than \Ready-Made\ Prices., Dress Suits from $25 up. 9 Proctor's Arcade, Wedgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street., Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop .. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker Schenectady Taxicab Service Com Phone 4489. HE IT RAINS . IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & ·HICKS High Grade Laundry get the KILLIP LAUNDRY QUALITY 719 STATE STREET, 'Phone 759 Schenectady, N. Y .. SPALDING'S for nearly forty years-have been the ones to think out, and put on the market, things really new in sport~ Are you posted on just what's new this year? A G S ld • & B 126-128 Naaanu Street • ., pa lng fOS. 520 5th Avr{: .• New York Send for Catalogue · S. A. Hamilton GROCER 423 Union St. Schenectady, N.Y. 841 Union St. Phone 2540 --·----------------- C. A. Whelan & Co. ·MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch Cl-IOCOLA TE PIE WITH WHIPPE.D CREAM. OUR SPE.CIAL TY 154 jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office';

SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN Made by Hart, Schaffner & Marx ? :: :: .. A b!=w ·iilii~AW 4 Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Styles, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailor•. College men like these clothes better than any other clothes mad·e and the men of Union are showing us that they do. We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us .. ttme. 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Schenectady ~ Art Press

PVBLISHED*WEEKLY BY·THE ~ STVDE NTS • OF 81 VNIOW • C OLL EG E VOL. 38 JANUARY 21st, 1915 NO. 11

;j 1: ll !I 'I H ,, il ,, ! ,. I. ,j I' t, 1: It I! ! ,' ,, I I ,, I j I. I I I ;: ,: ;; UNION UNIVERSI CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. Du Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Ceurses lea(ifng to the degree ot A. D., CLASSICAL CoURSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-Students may, at the dose of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Course lendJng to the degree of Ph. 11. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRsE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- . tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading· to the degree ot B. S. SciENTIFic CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course -offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRsE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general · engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRs~- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 6. Couraes leading to graduate degree~J. COURSE LEADING '1'0 DEGREE OF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of : lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, N ewst Confectionery Phone 2925-W ~·&: •IIIIIM?U'U!IN t~ CouRSE LEADING TO DEGREE oF M. S. E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CoURSE LEADING TO DEGREE OF PH. D.-This cou.rse of two years of graduate study requires for admis~ sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For -catalogues .or other in~ormation addre$S F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to :. WILLIS G. TucKER 1 M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF L.A 'Ar AMASA J. PARKER, J. NE\\.'\'l'ON FIERO_, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The eourse leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two sem.esters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $·Io; tuition fee. $I 10. For catalogue or other in formation, address: J oR N C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-'Graded course of instruction compris1ng two terms of seven months ead1. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catai-ogue giving full infotmation, addr.es'S: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. Av .. ~Rr;n B. H UES'.l'ED, Secretary, \Everything for the College Man except Exemt\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS 121 Nou Street Across from College Gate Middle Section, So. College Phone 1472-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate

of Y. Y. of o its is fee. Y. TRADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LA TEST .STYLES---MEN',S, French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All atylea and leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WALL STS. The Cain's Leading exponents of Modern Dancinll in Schenectady and Vicin· ity. New PupHs received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9 p. m. Pri- vate Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phone 21 10-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS Phone 2322- W. 169 Jay Street Company Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men.

Babbitt Clothes Are far superior to the ordinary ready mad,e clothes because they are the equal of the finest custom tailor's output. We ars sole agents in this tri·city territory for Rogers Peet Co. and ''The Frankel Fifteen'' (The greatest $15 clothing proposition in America) BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We .are .not living in the stage-coach decade, at whtch tune the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen= tury you wouldn't think of traveling as o* did in by-gone days. Neither would you ha v- ing your shoes repaired by the o14 style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date m·achine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 438 State Street Opposite Jay Street Free Order Service Telephone 3456 ( Higgins' ~ L Drawin~ Inka Eternal Writin~ Ink En~roaain~ Ink Taurine Mucila~e Photo Mounter Paate Drawin.Z Board Paate Liquid Paste Office Paste Ve~etable Gluea etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES, They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N.Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street,

TeeUp! Smoke Up! AS sa.tisfying as the sou?din~ ~ smack of the perfect dr1ve, IS · the open-air relish of the p,erfect smoke-Tuxedo. Both go to:gether, too. When you grab your bag and start for the links, grab up your tin of Tuxedo and take it along. ''Follow through'' the snappy after- noon with Tuxedo. Put Tuxedo in your pipe and you will ''pu:t\ the best. And at \the nineteenth h,ole\ rest up and relax with a good, solid smoke of Tuxedo. That's the ad- vice of good golfers everywhere. The Per/eel Tobacco for Pipe and Cigarette Tuxedo positively cannot bite-not even if you smoke pipeful after pipeful, as many as you can crowd into a day or a week. Tuxedo is made of only the finest, choicest, selected leaves of perfectly aged Burley tobacco. It is made by the original \Tuxedo Process\ which removes every trace of ht\te and sting and develops all the wonderful mildness, fragrance and flavor of the Burley Leaf in a way that no other brand of tobacco has ever success- fully imitated. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenient pouch. 5 Famous green tin. I o inn e r ·I i ned with C with gold lettering, C moisture-proof paper curved to fit pocket In G./ass Humidors, SOc and 90c FREE Send us 2 cents in stamps for post- age and we will mail you a souvenir tin of TUXEDO to b a ceo to any point in the United States. Address ' THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY Room 1299 111 Fifth A venue New York J. J. McDERMOTT National Open Champion, 1911 to 1913 j I :; ; 1' \Pipe Smoking girJe3 , , added pleasure lo a golfer when the pipe is filled with Tuxedo. Tuxedo provides :, more keen enjoyment than any other tobacco I know. \ ~~~ ALEX CAMPBELL Country Club, Brookline, Mass. ''I am alway3 glad to speak. a good word for Tux· edo tobacco. Constant use of it only serves to make it better liked. lt3 fragrant, soothing flavor makes it the choice of many golfer3. , ' OLr~~ ALEX ROSS National Open Champion, 1907, says: ''Tuxedo, cool and mild, is essentially the smoke that 3atisfies. M finY of my fellow golfers agree with me in g;-., .. ing prefer:.mce to Tuxedo. ,

Say Fellows: Bring in your laundry and save money Note these Prices: Shirts all Kinds ..................... 1 Oc ·Collars ............................... 2c : ;Union Suits . . . . . . . ..•............. lOc · Underwear, Night Shirts and Pajamas. . . . ........... 6c each Hose ....................... 3c per pair Handkerchiefs ....................... 2c Barrow's Hand Laundry 738 State Street We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need: Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady ·To Cure Cold BUY A GAS HEATER MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Makers of . Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. Caps, Gowns and Hoods To the AmericAn College~ ttnd Univeraitie1 from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Clas& contracts a specialty UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . S. E. Stanes' i\rt ~tnrr No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady, N.Y. Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN The Schenectady Trust Co. UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 318-320 State Street 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. c ''I 22

• • Clothing Furnishin:gs Hats We're ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? The newest and best in each department. ~ Wells & Coverly TROY \If It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' m Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires m Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS . Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave . KEELER'S ----EUROPEAN---- HOTEL and Cabaret at ·9· P. M. B·roadway and Maiden Lane 'Albany, N. Y ·GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Eilliard Room. Twenty -five Private Dining Rooms W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. Fine Imported Telephone 2323- J and Domestic Woolens GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.\ i' I }:. '

' j I I I I I I \ i I 1 I ! i ' ' ! i ' ! Ready to Wear and Custom Made STYLISH C.LOTHES , · Comparison is the ' Lever That Turns , Trade Our Way FOR YOUNG MEN This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, ·superiority of workmanship and newness of design are important features and you wiU prove by your own comparison, consistant. alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to all College Student is yours for the asking. . 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases of $10 or over if this ad is presented at the time of purchase. 503 - 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul'.s !G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. ! N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N. Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: Men's soles, sewed ________ 75c Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c I~adies' soles, sewed _______ 60c Men's Heels _______________ 2Sc Men's soles, nailed ____ so to 60c Ladies' Heels _________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________ -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 WHITE, 229 State Street 1904 1910 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 CARL DANNER, Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S Colle~e Repretentative 1908 19U 1915 ROW SHIRTS are in every style suitable for city or country, frolic or function. The colors are fast, the styles smart and right-the patterns correct-insist on the label. $1.50 and up Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. Makers Let's Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 298-W. '122 Eastern Ave. t I ,, ' - - - - S<: th w; til ar nc fie B~ m w. ar fn w: de m b<: h< te Ol fa ta tb 7 V\l p] o1 lo sl St uc

8 the ! . 1909 1910 1911 1012 1913 19U 1915 ! . 1,,;_ / The Concordiensis VOL. 38 JANUARY 21, 1915 NO.ll SAINT LAWRENCE DEFEATED 29-20. Union defeated St. Lawrence here last Saturday night by a score of 29 to 20. For the first time in at least two years the team was minus the Beavers throughout the en- tire game. In their places Mudge, Scoby and Girling played. This quintet displayed not at all the brilliancy, the dash, or the con- fidence which the team has shown with the Beavers in the line-up, but it must be re- metnbered that this game was the first in which the new five have worked together, and a steady improvement may be expected from practice and increasing familiarity with each other's style of play. It may be doubted if the Union team will for the re- mainder of the season play as good basket- ball as formerly. But certainly we shall have no cause to be disappointed with the team which we may be sure will put every ounce of the best it has into every game. Saturday's game was a queer mixture of fast and slow playing. St. Lawrence cer- tainly equalled if it did not excel Union in the first half, which ended with a tie score- 7 to 7. Every point in this half for Union \Vas secured by Captain Houghton, who played brilliantly throughout-scoring 19 of the final 29 points. There was a lot of loose passing in the first half and some wild shooting. In the second period the home team seen~ed to get started and showed contin- uous streaks of fast playing which had been decidedly intermittent in the first. Mudge took Scoby's place at right forward in this . half. The 1nost favorable sign about the whole game 'vas the fact that the team did not slow down in the second half, as they have done hitherto this season, but rather got up more stea1n and speed as the game proceeded. The game was ret-narkable for the number of fouls called on either side. St. Lawrence's style of play was rather puzzling to Union at first. The up-staters instead of throwing the ball away fast would hold it while manoeuvring for a free tnan. Instead of charging down on them, the Garnet men hung back and let them take their time. In the second period, evidently \jacked up\ by Fred Dawson, different tac- tics of mussing up the plays instead of leav- ing the ball unhampered in some oppon- ent's hands, got better results. Captain Wheeler played the best basket- ball for St. Lawrence, with good floor work and shifty passing. For five minutes after the tip-off St. Law- rence kept the ball almost continually in its ovvn hands. In this time they managed to run up a number of fouls, two of which Houghton basketed successfully. Captain VVheeled worked the ball down the floor and dropped the ball into the hoop for the first field goal of the gan1e. A few minutes later Clement wafted a long shot from the n1iddle of the court right through the little iron ring. The score stood St. Lawrnece 4, Union 2-St. I-iawrence's points all on field goals, Union's through fouls. The

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS next few minutes was sitnply a tempest of fouls, none of which was pocketed by the opposing captains. Right here Teedy Woods, Hough ton and Girling began to come through with fast floor work and pass- ing. St. La\vrence scored 3 points on fouls and Union two more. St. Lawrence had the ball most of the time and was showing ,clever passing. ,.fhen Houghton scored a field goal, shortly afterwards a foul, and the score stood St. Lawrence '1, Union 7, as the whistle blew for the end of the period. After Morgan caged a field goal, Union braced. Houghton put his team ahead with three fouls in succession and Joe Haubner cam.e through with a field goal. Gris¥rold scored a field goal, and Houghton made two more points on a double foul called on Clement. A foul for St. Lawrence made the score Union 14, St. Lawrence 13, and then Captain Erny pulled the most spec- tacular play of the game. On the run fron1 beyond the middle of the court he shot the ball on a long parabola that nestled sweetly within the basket's rim without a quiver. In quick succession Joe Haubner anrl Clement scored field goals, followed by promiscuous fouls. Mudge shot another basket closely followed by Haubner -vvho took the hall a way from an opposing guard and slipped it into the net before the honest gentleman knew he had lost it. Union was playing faster, -vvith good teamwork and less wild passing, while the up-staters were be- ginning to drag a little in the running. Soon '\reedy inveigled the ball into the coveted circumference, and right here the team showed its best work. After a nutnber of fouls on either side-Occie exercised the whistle liberally-sotne nice passwork, Girling to Woods to Hough ton to the bas- ket, scored Union's last goal. Shortly after- wards, lVIorgan deposited St. Lawrence's last tally and the score V\ras Union 29, St. Lawrence 20. The score: ST. L.A. WRENCE. F.B. F.P. T.P. Noble,, r .f. __ .......... .,. __ ... 0 G-riswo~d, l.f. ------- 2 Cletnents, c. ------- 1 l\1cGinnis, 'c. -------- 0 l\1organ, r.g. ------- 2 \\Theeier_, Lf. _______ 2 Totals ---------- 7 UNION. 0 0 0 0 0 6 6 0 4 2 0 <i 10 20 F.B. F.P. T.P. Scoby., r.f. --------- 0 l\.f.udge, r.f. ----·---- 1 Haubner,. l.f. __ ----- 3 \\T oods. c. --------- 1 Girling, r.g. ___ ----- 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 I 6 2 0 I-Ioughton, Lg. ----- 3 13 19 Totals ----------- 8 13 29 Surr1mary-Score at half time-Union, 7 ; St. Lawrence, 7. Fouls co1nmitted-St. I-1a\vrence, 23; Union, 12. Referee-Kuolt, Harnilton. THE ALLISON FOOT PRIZE DEBATE The annual Allison- Foote prize debate be- tween the Adelphic and Philomathean Lit- erary Societies took place last Friday even- ing in the college chapel. The decision and the one prize of fifty dollars was won by the Philomathean So- ciety while the other fifty dollar prize for the best individual, regardless of society relations, vvas awarded to A vrom M. Jacobs, '16, of the Philomathean. Resolved, 'fhat, in view of the present world-situation_, the arn1y and the navy of the United States should be increased, was the subject of the debate. Spencer B. Eddy '18, James L. Fitzgerald '15, and Raymond S. Blodgett '15, with Marvin H. King as alternate, upheld the affirmative for the Adelphics, while C. Foster Brown '16, Mil- tor '16 ref po: th( th( Fi1 ph an~ aff . JU~ qu Ph YvC COJ pn . 111§ na· for ity . In otl dir n1c J ac bn tiv de: Al en . Wl '15 St: '\r. Tr co. FI vvl t.Jt

T.P. 0 4 2 0 <i 10 20 T.P. 0 2 6 2 0 19 29 7. ' ' TE be- So- for ety of as THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 ton I-I. Sternf,eld '16, and Avrom M. Jacobs '16, with J. Raphael Riley '18, as alternate, represented the Philomatheans and sup- ported the negative si9-e of the question. 1\fr. Eddy opened the debate by defining the question and outlining the points which the affir1native proposed to establish. Mr. Fitzgerald, the second speaker for the Adel- phics, dealt w·ith the necessity of a military and naval increase. The last speaker for the affirmative, 1\.1 r. Blodgett, considered the justice of an increase and showed how the question vitally concerns the country. l\f r. Bro·wn, the :first speaker for the Philomatheans, stated that the negative vvould show that the United States should continue in its present policy and that the present world situation should have noth- ing to do with the military policy of this nation. Mr. Sternfeld, the second speaker for the negative, dealt with the improbabil- ity of the United States becoming engaged in war, and with our duties in regard to other countries. Mr. Jacobs concluded the direct appeal by giving the economic and n1oral side of the question. The rebuttal was sharp and interesting. Jacobs in his clear and forceful manner brought out many good points for the nega- tive. Mr. Blodgett, in his refutation, un- dennined n1any of his opponent's points. Although Blodgett was unable to strength- en the affirmative's position sufficiently to win, he gave the Philomathean a close race. David B. Page '15 and William A. Hughes '15 presided at the debate. Judge Alonzo P. Strong, Mr. G. E. Emmons, and the Rev. '\r. R. Good acted as judges of the award. The debate was quite well attended by both college students and others. FIRST LEAGUE GAME WILL BE PLAYED SATURDAY. Pennant progress will begin Saturday vvhen the Garnet five meets Williams in t.Jnion's first gan1.e toward the flag of the Northeastern Intercollegiate Basketball L,eague. 1~his game should be of interest, not only to Schenctadians but to basketball lovers of the east in general. Although Williams was beaten by R. P. I. two vveeks ago and by Springfield Y. M. C. _!\..., last Saturday it will not be in the least safe to call her an easy opponent for the Union bunch. In the Springfield Y. M. C. A.... gan1.e the Purple showed considerable class and were beaten by a single point. 11olthan1., the fast left guard who will prob- ably face Houghton, starred in last Satur- day's game, shooting six field baskets and holding his opponent to a single one. Captain Hay, though faced by a clever opponent, tnanaged to get away with three baskets. IIay, it vvill be remembered, was an all-eastern man last year. Langford's g-ood guarding is also a noticeable feature of the \Villia1ns article of ball. The dopesters are writing specifications for a fast and close game to be realized in the gyn1nasium Saturday and a large crowd of spectators is expected. AN UNWELCOME GUEST. Delta Upsilon House Robbed . A very unwelcome guest visited the Delta Upsilon House last Monday n1.orning be- tween the hours of t\iVO and six and strip- peel the p1ace of all small articles of v·alue, \vhich were readily accessible. He made a special n1ark of watches, bagging seven in all, and procured also several stick pins and a fevv dollars in cash. The total haul is estimated as somewhat exceeding the an1.ount of $200 in actual value. The thief entered the house through a window and confined his search for valuables to the study roon1s on the second floor. THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. A Responsive Chirp. At last the Innocent Bystander has had a reply to one of his nun1erous chirps. But,

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS my dear Anti-Grind, if you were to look up '·'Grind'' in the dictionary, neither your definition nor mine would an1ount to n1uch. \Grind\ is a manufactured term- you are entitled to your interpretation;· I am to mine. To me, a ''Grind\ is one who puts study and class room work above every- thing else. He is one who realizes that he did not come to college primarily to sport a U on his sweater, to make trips with the glee club, to yell himself hoarse as two foot- ball teams tear each other apart. If he does do these things., it is only in nature of a relaxation, and then after his class room work is well taken care of. You seem to have taken the stand that study is only one of many colege activities. So do many others, but the \Grind\ does not. To hin1 it is the \be-ali and the end-all\ of college. Herein, we disagree. Your portrait of the \Grind\ fiendishly chuckling at the discomforture of his class- mates is interesting. By the way, why are his class-mates discomforted, and who is going to tutor these class-mates to help them remove their \sticks?\ In the light of this, don't you think that he whose main object is the acquisition of knowledge has some slight use after all ? The tone of your letter shows that you have hardly grasped the purpose of the In- nocent Bystander. It was his intention to present one side of a question in the hope that others like yourself would be sufficient- ly interested to state the other side. He hardly expected that his articles would be the meat for a venon1ous attack. Please grant that he is not wholly devoid of reason and that \Ignorant Bystander\ is a trifle harsh to apply to one who, to use your own words, \devotes some of his time, no mat- ter how little, to the upbuilding of some- thing in college activity which will make college life as a whole worth while living or be of real benefit to the college.\ If the Anti-Grand wishes to talk the mat- ter over V\rith the INNOCENT Bystander, Editor Delchamps will furnish his name. The Innocent Bystander thinks that the Anti-Graind is treating of a person who never existed--that there never was a per- son who devoted absolutely all of his time to study, but only to such an individua~I cou1d your definition apply. The Innocent Bystander, however,. has chosen to con- sider the more or tess infrequent individ- ual, to whon1 class work is the only thing of any real account to which all other things must be for aU time subordinate. College activities have had their share of prominence. Don't you think that it is about time to give the other side a few good words? '\fHE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. JUNIOR WEEK PLANS BECOMING PERFECTED. A Good Time .Promised to All. Final plans for Junior Week are now al- most completed. The Prom and the Soiree on February 4 and 5 respectively promise to eclipse even the wonderful dances of last year. Chairman Brown of the junior dance committee, and Chairman Wilson of the Sophomore Soiree have made several an- nouncements of importance concerning these two affairs. Most of the entertainment this year will be done individually. But three of the frat- ernities have decided definitely to have house parties. Chi Psi expects as house guests ten charming members of the fair sex and will give a house dance on Saturday evening following the basketball game with Springfield. The Phi Delta Theta and Sigma Phi fraternities will also give house parties. The usual Glee Club concert will be given on Friday, February 5, for the students and their Junior Week guests. On the sixth, the last day of an all too short week, the 'varsity basketball team will tackle the tean1 frotn the Springfield Training School fc tb tb .• iS cc te CCl \iV lif th ch iti as Cl hi: of re· ac he be pu tie co . lll( fo] th~ ea: . 1ar pn th< th( we AJ at fot

the ua~I ent . lS ee to n d THE CONICORDIENSIS 13 for the entertainment of the fair guests ~of the college. Every one who has charge of any part of the arrangements for Junior Week is work- ing his hardest to make it a success. It ~is novv actuaU y up to the remainder of the college to get behind the various commit- tees and lend then1 every aid possible. Let ''surpass last year\ be our motto and let us carry it out to a successful <;oncl usion. THIRD LECTURE IN ICHABOD SPENCER COURSE. The subject of Dr. Palmer's third lecture, Wednesday evening, January 13, was the life and poetry of Edmund Spenser, whon1 the speaker described as a \poet of hypnotic charm who lulls one away from hard real- ities of life with fairy dreams of a world such as one might desire.\ The speaker briefly reviewed the study of Chaucer as leading up to the discussion of his successor, Spenser. Chaucer was spoke11 of as a poet of reality, while Spenser's works represent a refuge fron1. reality. His char- acters are all abstractions. In allegory, he sets forth the qualities which we desire to be in life and seeks the splendors and purity of life. In his style, Spenser displayed the quali- ties of the painter and musician. He often coins words of which the reader must not inquire the meaning too closely, but rather follow the general impression conveyed by them. He borrowed and refined all the earlier forms of verse, adding the Spenser- ian stanza which was especially effective in producing the hypnotic effect which was the purpose of his poems. T·he life of the poet was briefly described, the fact being brought out that his true worth was not known until after his death. A.lthough his \Fairie Queen\ was published at Sir Walter Raleigh's request, he never found favor with Queen Elizabeth. FOURTH LECTURE BY. DR. PALMER ON GEORGE HERBERT. Dr. Palmer began his lecture on the Poet I-Ierbert by criticizing as a misnomer his popuiar appellation \Holy:\ He was in no sense \holy\ hut was rather a man of noble and delicate soul, constantly impelled in two directions. Herbert was taken by the lecturer as representative of the psychological poets or as Johnson called them \metaphysical who followed. the realistic or Chaucerian type and the idealistic or Spenser type. The psychological poets showed the inner work- ings of man's mind. Their two main themes \\\ 7 ere love and religion. Petrarch and John Donne were pioneers in this form of poetry. The Puritanism which taught men to know themselves as individual souls stand- ing face to face with God was back of Her- bert's poetry. The larger love of religion, the union of the life of man with the Divine life became the subject of all Herbert's poetry. Herbert grew up under the personal in- fluence of Donne and probably knew Shakes- peare. Though_ he was early dedicated to priesthood he did not take holy orders until 39, three years before his death. It was d ur- ing this period that he produced sotne of his best vvorks. Dr. Palmer said: \Herbert's poetry responds to human needs as None other does and in him we find a palpitating soul satisfying its desire for effort and ad- venture in the intellectual contemplation of its relations to God.\ In closing, Dr. Palm- er read the following poems of Herbert: \Sweet Day,\ \Elixir \Sin \Clasping of Hands.\ Last evening Dr. Palmer spoke to a large and attentive audience on the Poet Pope. The lecture of this evening is on Wads- worth. I-Ioffy: 1\1r. Brown, give an example of an imperative sentence. Foster: Go to the Devil!

, I I I . i I . I I ' • I 14 THE CON,CORDIEN:SIS 'THE CON·CORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. ]. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, '15 Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '1.5, 25 Glenwood Boulevard STAFF ARTIST Thomas P. Keating, '15, 322 Germania Avenue ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, '16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 REP·ORTERS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz Karl E. Agan, '15, Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Howard A. Glenn, Assistant Business Manager. Kappa Alpha Lodge. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street Schenectady, N. Y. (Editorials in this issue written by A. M. Jacobs, '16.) A VITAL CONCERN. \\Then Woodrow Wilson issued his pro- clamation of neutrality, Union students \vere not much alarmed, but viewed the thing as a matter.,of~course act by a con- servative leader amid distressing conditions. Neither were the Union students n1uch alarmed wheri the season's debating topic was announced as having to do primarily with the European war. But now that President I-Iibben of Princeton is seriously urging military training for the college man, with the establishment of summer camps all over the country to acquaint the young college man with the details and routine oi military life, it would seem .as though a movement had been started wherein the ~col~ lege man must play a vital part. \Vith no undue assumption, the college 1nan is considered a bit better than his con1mercially trained fellow. He is looked upon as one who has been afforeded cettain advantages and who is some day to play the leading part in the conduct of the na- tion's affairs. A college education is no longer a luxury for the boy of this genera- tion. His grandfather's day was the day of the grammar school, his father's day was the day of the high school. But the evol u- tion has not stopped here. Today is the day of the college. \Vhen any post is to be filled, a college man is sought; when any movement is to be started, a nucleus is sought in the colleges. It is small wonder, therefore, that a great university president should have advised the teaching of n1.ili- tary tactics to his students. The most as- tonishing point is that a live spirit of op- position has crystallized so rapidly among college n1en. This is, however, the case. Students at Columbia have risen up in arms, though not in the sense that the military advocates desired. The following is the text of the resolu- tion adopted at Colutnbia last week: \Re .. solved, 1'hat we, the students of Columbia ·university, in n1ass meeting assembled, hereby go on record before Congress and the people of the United States, as opposed to militarism in general and an increase in our arn1y and navy in particular.:' This resolution was carried without a dissenting vote and copies of it were forwarded to all the college publications; the Convor- f.\' ' f l ! l l ! ~ I l f -~. a tc a·( a] e1 a t1 p: tr a1 rr le S1 yl w T C< a1 gJ e1 w . tg . 1r 111 fc A u h: t1 t] t1 fl.

oi a ege his . lay na- no of lu- be . lS er, u- .. . ta d, . lS f.\' ' THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 diensis included, and the support of all publications was requested. College men are not mere bystanders in a matter such as this. They are the ones to whon1 all eyes would turn in case of the a·doption of any measures which savor at al'l of militarism. Many of us believe in eugenics. All of us agree that the end is a 'vorthy one, whether or not we believe the eugenics propaganda to be effective or practical. Nothing could be more diame- trically opposed, however, than a eugenic and a militarisn1 campaign, especially if the militarists center their attentions on the col- lege men. Only the young; healthy, and strong are wanted in armies, and only the young healthy, and strong wag~ effective V\ 7 ar and get killed for their patriotism. The eugenists would use such stock as the collegian who is both scholar and athlete, and would make him material for national greatness, and with him create coming gen- erations to excel the people of to-day. If we would consider welfare, we must not ignore this phase of it. Union College has a past to guide her in her present conduct. In 1861 the call for men was sounded and Union College gave forth almost her full quota of students. All that remains today are the names of Union students on the honor list of North- ern or Confederate ar1nies. Union itself has only now received the ground lost by the Civil War. We are just as patrio- tic as our grandfathers of '61; there was adequate cause for their doing what they did-; the concensus of the competent seems to show that such cause is lacking now. vV e too, love our country and our flag, but we ar-: just now coming to a real- ization of the significance of that country and that flag. Columbia has led the way. It will not be long before others will have followed in her wake. A special co1nmi ttee is issuing cir- culars of information replete with meaty aphorisms. Among them are these: \To scatter gunpowder about may be a good way to get caution, but it is a sure way to get an explosion.\ \The sounds of cannon drown the canons of civilization; V\ 7 ar is the annihilation of the decalogue.\ Columbia has led the way. It may be that \We all want civilization, not savagery; souls, not soldiers; brains, not battleships.\ Union will soon be called upon to decide just vvhat stand she is going to take on the matter. If any such question arises, each man should vote after having carefully con- sidered the matter in all its aspects. He should treat it in the light of an all-import- ant consideration, not 'as a joke or triviality. Columbia has taken the lead against mili- tarisni in colleges. Shall Union follow? THAT FRESHMAN BANQUET. Now, look here, freshn1en ! From time im- memorial and even before that, the fresh- Ulan class has run off a little party for the benefit ( ?) of the sophomores and others . It iU befits the largest class that ever en- tered \Old U ne-yun\ to postpone the event until some time in spring. Now here's what is going to happen, according to sev _ era] prominent upper-classmen. Unless the banquet comes off soon, they are going to find out all about it, tell the sophomores and spoil the whole evening's festivities. Now do you see to what extremes hungry

16 THE CONCORDIEN.SIS students will go? Far be it from us to make any suggestions, but we would strongly ad- vise a concerted ~ovem~ent toward Troy in the near future. How is this for an idea. Hold the. banquet in the R. P. I. gymnasium on the night of the ,game. All the crowd will be upstairs and then you can sneak down into the cellar and eat to your heart's content. It's a good trick if you do it. It's a good trick if you don't do it. WHY DISCRIMINATE? Of all games during the season we prefer to win the Hamilton game. Of aU sports during the season we prefer to trim Hamil- ton in football. \V\T e are told that life will not be worth living unless we outplay, out- cheer, a?d outsing Hamilton some day in November. The Hamilton football game is history, and mighty fine history. Dust is already collecting on the 1914 football and the 1915 basketball is the cynosure of attention. Shall we go through the basketball season silently merely because we don't happen to have Hamilton on our schedule or shall we sing the boys to victory in basketball as we did in football? There is a little institute over in Troy which Union has marked out as its parti- cular piece de resistance this season. We have a couple of basketball games and a track meet with R. P. I. this winter, an(i baseball games with them in the spring. We expect to follow precedent and win a goodly number of these events. Why not prepare now the same way as we prepare for the Hamilton game? Why should we spread our spirit so thickly over one game when we have enough left to cover the whole schedul;e? V\Thy discriminate? Why not let us have so1ne songs for the coming R. P. I. events,. some popular parodies, some of that \We're-the-team-that-blacked-the eye--of- R. P. I.''\ sentiment which coach and students revel in, and opponents seldom enjoy. R. P. I. consists of a bunch of good sports, but that need not prevent our telling then1 in song and story how good we are and what is going to happen to them. Up and to arms, ye song writers ! Tickle your imaginations and let the proper persons have some parodies for the R. P. I. games! SOMETHIN~G OF INTEREST TO UNION MEN. A Communication. Hartford, Conn., Jan. 14, 1915. Editor \Concordy :\ May I, through the columns of the Con- cordy, say a word to the student body about the conference of Eastern college men on the Christian ministry, which will be held at Hartford Seminary on March 19-21 next and to which any or all Union under- graduates are invited? This conference will be made up of men from the colleges of New England, eastern and southern New York and New Jersey. Its purpose is to present the \Christian Ministry as the Supreme Service for the Man of Today.\ There will be here to speak of various phases of this topic Mr. Robert E. Speer, Mr. John R. Mott, Dr. Albert Parker Fitch, Dr. John Douglas Adam-all of whom are well known as speakers to college men. In ad- dition to these, Dr. Finley, New York State Education Commissioner, Dr. Coffin and Dr. Cadman of New York, and President Mackenzie of Hartford will be on the pro- gram. To those who have definitely de- cided their life work, this conference may not appeal. But there are many men on the campus who are wondering what they I .. ~·, l ; t ! l are g skin faces toga but a may fessic A the r the I Mear and t tions I n here a footb ley an and 1 \\re a albl \Vi IN lJ To tb Then Cone< whose Grind pute: he sa bility devot learni clares activi· it is acqui1 of bo< 1nit tl purpo surelv ., I und devote

'. l l ! l THE CO·NCORDIENSIS 17 are going to do when they take their sheep- skin from Prexy's hand and turn their faces out upon the world. Here is a chance to gain some light, not only on the ministry but also on the fund.a1nental principles that may guide decisions in regard to any pro- fession. A deputation of men will visit Union in the near future 'vith further details as to the purpose and scope of the conference. Meanw·hile will you not keep it in mind and be ready to meet them with your ques- tions when they arrive? I must just add that the Union Alumni hereabout are enthusiastic over the past football season-especially over the W es- leyan game. It was a good game to watch and the score is pleasant to the memory. \\r e are awaiting the coming of the basket- alb! team with interest. \Vith best wishes for the year, I am Very truly yours, JAMES H. POTTER, '12. IN DEFENSE OF THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. To the Editor of the Concordiensis: There appeared in the last number of the Concordiensis an article by the Anti-Grind~ whose opposition to and disgust for the Grind are only too apparent. I wish to dis- pute his definition of a Grind. \A Grind,\ he says, \is one who leaves the responsi- bility of all college activity to others and devotes all of his time to the pursuit of learning * * * * \ In other words he de- clares that book learning is not a college activity. How odd and how unreasonable it is for our faculty to insist upon the acquirement of the daily assigned portion of book learning! I an1 quite willing to ad- lnit that book learning is not the aim and purpose of a college education, but it is surely an important part of it. A Grind, as I understand the term, is simply one who devotes all his time to study. There are 1nen in coUege, some athletes, for example, who do on1~y enough work in their studies to stay in coUege. They are plugging away every moment on their athletic work. Is not the Grind doing the same thing, except that he is putting in his time on study, which is a college requirement, instead of on athletics~ which is approved but not re- quired by the college? Yet think how the athletic hero wins the applause, while the Grind gets the con tern pt. I do not approve of the Grind) but I have the same regard for the athlete who neglects his study as for the Grind who neglects other college activi.,. ties for th·e sake of study. It is my belief that Anti-Grind has given an unfair and wholly one-sided aspect of the Grind. I have not tried to justify, but rather to apologize for the Grind, for verily he is no worse than many who are winning glory from their fellow students. This double st~ndard must go. AN ALLY o·F THE INNOCENT BY- STANDER. MUSICAL CLUBS ENJOY TRIP TO LANSINGBURG. Two Concerts Next Week. Last Friday the Musical Clubs journeyed to I~ansingburg, where they gave a concert in the High School audi tori urn. The audi- ence was comparatively small, but very ap- preciative) and the performance was one of the snappiest this season. This was the first appearance of Gerry vV oods as leader of the Glee Club, and he surely made a good beginning. It was also the first trip this season for J>hil Downs and Bone Gardner, and Phil brightened up the crowd to a great extent, for his laugh is surely contagious. The trip \\Vas uneventful, the usual bevy of pretty girls being in attendance at the dance after the perfor1nance, and the whole affair wind1ng up with a 111idnight \feed\ at the Esse:x Lunch in Troy. Next week the clubs have a concert in I : ~ ' ' ; (. ;: ;, I: I r i i 1: '> ' I. I I . I .. ·, ; ' I · I I '· t• . i :· '·. It

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS the Schenctady High School auditorium, Monday evening, and Thursday evening they give a concert in Albany. PREXY FACES BUSY MONTH. Doctor Richtnond has a very busy month before him. On Monday, January 25, he will speak at a dinner given in Albany in honor of Robert Burns, the famous Scotch poet. On January 26 he will attend the Jan- uary n1eeting of the Board of Trustees of Union Colege. On Sunday, January 31, he vvill preach at Emma Willard School in Troy. l-Ie will attend a dinner given by the alun1ni of the University of Vermont on February 2 at the Mohawk Golf Club. On Saturday, February 13, there will be a din- ner given in Rochester by the alumni of 1J nion College and Doctor Richmond will speak at the dinner. On Tuesday, Febru- ary 16, he will atend a dinner given by the Elmira Alumni Association. A COMMUNICATION. Los Angeles, Cal., Jan. 6, 1915. Editor Concordiensis : Dear Sir :-Kindly insert the following for the benefit of your readers, in the next issue of your periodical, and oblige. Yours respectfully, CHAS. C. REYNOLDS, Secretary Cremation Association of America. The Cremation Association of America ' through its executive board, has instituted a yearly con1petition for· what will be known as the Davis-Lange n1edal, in honor of Dr. ~L I.. Davis, of Lancaster, Pa., and Mr. I~ouis Lange, of New York City. These gentlen1en, one of whom, Dr. Davis, is still living, were the editors of \The Modern Cren1atist' 'and \The Urn,\ respectively, and did ll1UCh, at the time these publica- . tions appeared, to advance the propaganda of cremation through the Union. The co.n1petition is open to high school, col- lege and university students throughout the United States and Canada and will per- tain to son1e subject connected vvith cren1ation. ~\fhe topic for this year is \Rea- sons Why Cremation Is Superior to Burial from an Esthetic Point of View.\' Papers subn1itted in this competition should not he over 1,000 words in length, written on one s~de only, an~ must not be rolled. T4ey snould he n1a1led to Mr. Roger D. Swaim, 16 'Central Street, Boston, who is acting as secretary for the committee on a wards. The following gentlen1en have consented to act as judges: Rev. Paul Revere Frothinghan 1 , Prof. Chas. R. Lanman, of I-Iarvard Uni- versity, and Rev. Dr. Lee McCollester, of Tufts College, all of Boston. ~!Ianuscript must bear a pseudonym and be accom- panied by a sealed envelope that bears the same pseudonym and contains the real name and address of the participant. In order to mini1nize the work of the commit- tee, the receipt of manuscripts will not be acknowledged and Mss. failing to receive a prize will not be returned. Three medals are offered, gold, silver and bronze, one of each. The competition will close June 1, 1915. The obverse will bear a reproduction of the seal of the Cremation Association of i\merica and the reverse the engraved vvords: The Davis-Lange Medal (Name of Recipient) 1915. Manuscripts receiving a prize will be~ come the property of the Cremation Asso- ciation of America and be read at its next convention at Buffalo, August 26 and 27'. Beauty of diction will count in the award of the prizes ; for a model see Frances E. Wil- lard's fanious statement in regard to crema- tion in her \Glimpses of Fifty Years.\ \Vrite to your nearest crematorium for lit- erature; that may also help you. TRACK. Captain Dent has arranged for two inter- c] ass tracks meets early next month and it . ' IS expected that a large number of men will repo: \veel, inter vvith cons wor1 fort 'I'l: n1eet are: l. 2. 3. 4. 5. In lovvit 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. En limit~ COUll' 2; fo On Sal at ical ~ calle \The \J\Ilea Anal\ the e num the r other s 1 t' a a .. with ure o analy of a I to be 1neth< spoke

THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 report for practice during the next two \veeks. Those who show good form in these interclass meets will be picked for the n1eet vvith R. P, I. It is hoped that there will be considerable interest in the indoor track work so that the team will be in good shape for the spring meets. 'rhe events for the first interclass track n1eet, which vvill be held on February 2, are: l. 40 yard dash. 2. Running high jump. 3. 40 yard low hurdles. 4. I-Ialf mile run (10 laps.) 5. Two mile run ( 40 laps.) In the second meet, February 11, the fol- lovving events will take place: 1. 40 yard dash. 2. 12 pound shot put. 3. Mile run (20 laps.) 4. 40 yard high hurdles. 5. Tvvo mile relay (tean1s of 4.) Entries in the runs on the track will be limited to tvvo men from each class. Points count as follows: First, 5; second, 3; third, 2 ; fourth, 1. CHEMICAL SOCIETY. On Monday night, January 18, Mr. Salathe delivered a lecture before the Chen1- ical Society of Union College in the chenli- callecture room. He spoke on two subjects, \The Manufacture of Aluminum\ and \J\Ileasuren1ent of Steam Flow by Chemical Analysis.\ In the first part he went into the electrolytic preparation of the alumi- num pig from the earths containing it and the n1anufacture of alu1ninun1. cables and other products. In the second part Mr. Salathe gave a very interesting explanation with illustrative computations of the Ineas- ure of stea1n flovv by comparative chemical analysis of the head water and tail water of a power house. This method has proved to be far n1ore accurate than the mechanical 1nethods generally en1ployed. . I\1r. Salathe spoke \Yith authority on the subject, having been in charge of the work for the United States Aluminum Company at their large plant at Messina Springs, N. Y. After the lecture an interesting discussion was par- ticipated in by the men1bers of the society. THE JULIA CULP CONCERT. All those who took advantage of the lT nion College concert course at the second of the series in the gymnasium, Tuesday evening, enjoyed a treat by Mme. Julia Culp, assisted by Coenraad V. Bos, pianist. No true lover of music could say that the recital vvas not one of great artistic n1eri t as well as most pleasing. Mme. Culp is a tnezzo-soprano and an admirable concert performer. She is possessor of a beautiful stage appearance in addition to her en- chanting voice. She was enthusiastically received with a bouquet of flowers and hearty applause by the large and appre- ciative audience which heard her for the first time in this. city; in return for which she was generous with encores. · Her progran1. included four favorite Gern1an songs by Shubert, of which \Haidenroslein\ was most enjoyable. The two Indian songs by Lieur- ance were a delight. Then there were three English songs by Rogers, including the \\tVind Song,\ somewhat descriptive and very well rendered. Her last four . songs vvere an excellent group of Brah1n's work, of which \\iViegenlied the last, was par- ticularly good. In all her nun1bers, Mn1e. Culp sang with wealthy tone and effective expression that appeals to every 111 usical ear. . Coenraad V. Bos did the accorn.paning vvith remarkable sympathy and skill. He also rendered a Sonata in C major by Mo- zart and a group of well known composi- tions, displaying fine style. Both Coenraad Bos and Mn1e. Culp were born in I-Iolland. The latter received the best part of her training in Berlin, where she was assured of success in a concert in 1904. She soon hecan1e a great favorite through- 1'

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS out Europe and later one of our most pron'l- inent concert artists. There are two more concerts in the . course. They are : Anna Case, soprano, and Herbert Witherspoon, bass, February 12; and the K.neisel Quartet, assisted by Ada Sassoli, pianiste, March 9. If they prove to be as good as the one Tuesday evening, they _vvill be very enjoyable. MISSION STUD·Y. The courses in Mission Study for 1915 were announced by Revington Etnbree in chapel on 1\fonday as follows: 1. The En1ergency in China. 2. Uncivilized Asia and Africa. 3. India Awakening. 4. E-ducational Missions. 5. Islam--a challenge. These courses will be conducted in classes which will meet in Silliman Hall each Mon- day evening, from seven to eight o'clock, beginning January eighteenth and continu- ing for eight weeks. They are open to all students who must certainly receive much profit and instruction from them. Y. M. C. A. Fred H. Rindge, who is well known to the fellows on the \hill\ for his Y. M. C. A. vvork was with us the early part of the week. Sunday he spoke at the vesper ser- vices, Monday he spoke before the Econo- lnics classes. His object is to establish classes for instructing foreigners in the Eng- lish language and other rudimentary sub- jects. 1'hree classes have already been for1ned and i~ is expected that his influence will be effective in starting several more. These classes conducted by college students have been very successful in the past. Mon- day noon Mr. Rindge spoke briefly and en- tertainingly to the students in college meet- ing. In the evening he held a trial class in Sillin1an Hall to demonstrate how English rnay be taught without the teacher knowin~ a single word of his pupil's tongue. Mission study classes started Monday. Some of the Bi hle classes show a very good attendance. WAR TALK. Italy is in good shape to deliver a swift kick. HWhat is Austria-Hungary for?\ ''Turkey.'' They are having Lodz of trouble in Poland. \The thern1ometer registers zero while Germans cooHy await action in trenches.\ Peculiar isn't it? There's no doubt about it the war has brought forth many great writers of fiction an1ong our war correspondents. In despair and dismay, cried Jim Fitz, \I am driven clean out of my wits, \I don't dar to comb \My smooth ivory dome \And I can't find a wig that Jim fits.\ 1st Rough Neck: Hey, where y' goin'? 2nd Rough Neck: Over to Carrol's to buy a state. 1st Rough Neck: How's that? 2nd Rough Neck: You see I want to get a . new Jersey. SAFETY FIRST. The president and his cabinet have re- cently forbidden Tipperary in the arn1y and navy to preserve neutrality because it is sung by the English troops. It would be a good idea also to change our national colors, since England and France also have red, 'vhite and blue, to avoid irritating his august 111 ajesty, \\rillian1 II. 1: :: -

1: :: lf you want anything from QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Broa. ALBANY, N. Y. -IF- You feel that a custom tailor is the only man that can put true distinction into your garments-you are laboring under the wrong impression. If you think that a custom tailor is the only man that can give you an exclusive pattern and weave-once again you're wrong. And if you think that a custom tailor can give you nearly as much value as \Steefel's\ can-we're afraid you,re wrong again. If your thoughts run in the above channel, drop in and see us-and we'll put you right. Suits and Overcoats $10 to $60. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. AU the Latest Novelties in WALL PAPER AND DECORATIONS Sun 5 & 1 De Wall Paper Store 411 STATE STREET. Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454- J. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. WATERS, Custom Tailor 15 6 BARRETT STREET Imported and Domestic Woolens 15% Reduction to Students For samples and prices, see ROBERT N. LANDRETH Colle~e Hill, Phone 1915-J YOUNG MEN!· Step Into a Pair of Our SURE-FIT Shoes Here we picture two of the newest lasts for young men who keep apace with the shoe fashions. Correct for college, school or business. Natty enough for dress wear. $4 t. $6 A. ~o\IR 0 STYLES Values like these are only possible in a metropolitan e tore like Patton & Hall's. PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST. Below the Brldse.

More College News IN THE Read It Every Day GAZETTE 5 F·OR YOUR D.EN · ·. Beautiful College Pennants 5 .i, There is no Music Like Giocia' s Orchestra • 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. Yale and Hardvard, Each 9 in. x 24 in . ------------------ Princeton, Cornell, Michigan, Each . 7 in. x 21 in. 4-PENNANTS. SIZE 12x30-4 Any Leading Colleges of Your .Selection All of our best quality, in their proper colors, with colored emblems. Either assortment, for limited time sent postpaid for SO cents and five stamps to cover shipping costs. Write us for prices before placing orders for felt novelties of all kinds. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. Nott Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258-J. L. SCHWARTZ Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N. Y. A Gift that seals friendship- Your Portrait The Studio of MABELLE PRIMMER 241 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall Schenectady's Leading Flower Shop Julius 1fgtr ORCHIDS, ROSES AND VIOLETS 735 State Street ED, THE THE BARBER SHOP FOR Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store BARBER UNION MEN Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. The New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Schenectady Specialty-Reasonable Prices, Comfortabl~ . ' ,; i ] t - 1 ( ' ..... 8 ( ~

I '' Bellinger Paint Co. ~h ~ '~ Walk-Over shoes will take J!1 ·- you anywhere and back. PAINTS, OILS LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishe& 212 So. Centre St. Walk-Overs. · 407 State Street, Schenectady A. R . . ZI.ta's Orch.· est,ra furnished music at Union College 1905 'o6, '07, 'o8, 'og, '10, '11, '12 '13 & '14 Best Dance Music in the World g~e·tt~~e~~~~~~e~ 48 ~!e Better for Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., Albany TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students R. Wirth, Union 'IS Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts · served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a SP.ecialty. M usie furnished if clesired. 135 NOTT TERRACE Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $18 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wen dell & Morris Aves .. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. ,. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles HOME MADE ·CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620-W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 4'26 State Street Eyes Te•ted and GlAnes Fitted THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography ~~watch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street. 'I . i II '

The Smoke of the Smart Set Smart men of fashion everywhere- clubmen, connoisseurs, mil]:ionaire sportsmen-have discovered the greater enjoyment and satisfaction in the fresh cigarettes of .unique flavor and delicious mildness they roll for themselves, to suit their own taste, from mellow \Bull\ Durham tobacco. GENUINE .. BULL DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO No other tobacco in the world has the wonderful sweet fragrance and ripe, natural mildness of 11 Bull\ Durham. No (other cigarettes have the exquisite smoothness and delightful freshness of 1 Bull 0 Durham hand-made cigarettes. 1 Bull n Durham is a distinctive form of tobacco enjoyment, thoroughly appreciated by smokers of experience the world over~ Aak For a FREE book of • ~ papera'• with each Sc: •ac:k FREE An Illustrated Booklet, showing correct way to 11 Roll Your Own 11 Ciga- rettes, and a Book of cigarette papers will both be mailed to you,. /r<'e. on postal request. Address • Bull n Dur- ham, Durham, N. C., Room 1298. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO • .,,.., .. .,.,,u•u•uutllmull.ttuuuul::::::::.::,u 1 uulllJjlJJilUIJJJliJIJJIJ1JJIUJIIJJll,.,,.u • ., 1 .. ,,,..,,,,JIJUIJUJIJUil -- -

----------------------------------------~------~----~- THE UNION of a Sophomore or Freshman with a few dolars which will stay by him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savings Ba.nk COR. STATB AND CLINTON The Edison American Plan All Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 Edwin Clute, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. The Gleason Book Co. 104 Jay Street Gleason Buildin1 \On your W&J to the post office\ Dealers in College Good.s too numerous to include in the \Concordy\ THE MOHICAN COMPANY· THE OUTLET 140 JAY STREET, Opposite Van Curler Brokers and Jobbers of fine Custom Made Garments $10.95 for any Overcoat or Balmacaan in the store Full Dress Suits For Rent Wally Girling ·Johnson and Murphy Shoes Kirkpatrick Shoes Room I & II, Middle Sweaters and . Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union Section South Colle~e Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N.Y.

! I I . ; The Schenectady Clothing Co • Clothing for CoUege Men Stein-Bloch· and Hickey-Freeman Suits and Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward Full ·Dress Acceessories Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at all times The Schenectady Clothing Co. 313-315 State Street Telephone 91-W The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354- W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. JUST WRIGHT THE SHOE OF A GENTLEMAN Metropolitan Styles Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. 1 · Re H. Sn T1 H ENDWELL Shoes THE LEWIS DINNING ROOM Te. Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State 154 BARRETT ST., near State Meals, Table de Hote Breakfast 6:00 A. M. Luncheon 11:30 A. M. Dinner 5:00 P. M. Sunday Breakfast 8:00 A. M. Dinner 12:00 M. Single Meals 30c Sunday Dinner SOc Te 20 MEAL CARD $5.00 42~ Home cooked meals prepared of the bes t things to eat, cooked and served in a clean and J sanitary manner. Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street 30 15 . .__

Stoll's Ho/brauhaus 162 ... 64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N .. Y. Will Serve· Real Germ.an Meats at All Hours at Moderate Pricesl> MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS§ Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week .. Telephone 1938. MAX NOWAt Prop .. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 · Representative 'C~n the Hill H. J. Schwartz T ailodng Co. . Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at less than .,Ready-Made\ Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. 9 Proctor's Arcade:O W edgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 1 Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. Phone 4489. WHEN . IT RAINS . . . lN A HURRY · . . OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS High Grade Laundry get the KILLIP LAUNDRY QUALITY 719 STATE STREET, 'Phone 759 Schenectady, N= Y. SPALDING'S for nearly forty years-have been the onea to think out, and put on the market, things really new in sport. Are you p11sted on just what's new this year? I A G S [d • & B 126-128 Naaaau Stre•t 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. . • pa Ing ros.. 520 5th AYe., New York --------------- I Send for Catalogue Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker S. A. Hamilton GROCER 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. y. 841 Union St.. Phone 2540 C. A. Whelan & Co. MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery Cigars and Tobacco is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. 301 and 443 State St. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, Schenectady I 336 State S1:r:eet, Gazette Building I 2Oth Century Lunch CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHIP:PED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Officen ·---------·------------------------------------------------------~

. i . I . I j • ! . ! I I SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN Made by Hart, Schaffner & Marx Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Styles, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailors. College men like these clothes better than any other clothes made and the men of Union are showing us that they do. We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us time. 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Schenectady ~ Art Press

PVBLISHEDraWEEKLY BY .. THE STVDENTS· OF· VNION- COLLEGE Union Wins From Williams. Colgate Tomorrow. Take In Junior Week. VOL. 38 JANUARY 28th, 1915 NO. 12

UNION UNIVERSITY . CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D .. D., LL~ D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Courses leading to the degree of Ae B. CLASSICAL CouRS~ A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Course leading to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of B. s. SciENTIFIC CouRSE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4.. Course leading to the degree o:f Ba E .. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE_:.This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Courses leading to graduate degrees. CouRsE LEADING To DEG!tEE oF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. 1-Jerrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery. Phone 2925 .. W CouRst LEADING TO DEGR!t~ OJ! Y. S. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING To DEGR~E 01 PHa D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admisa sion the degree of M. E. E. or· an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES; Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory workp pracm tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y .. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA]. PARKER, J. NEwToN F:nt:ao, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years ; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $ro; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ALFRED 13. HuESTED 1 Secretary, \Everything for the College Man except Exema\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, _PENNANTS, BANNERS A~D PILLOW COVERS 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate Middle Section, So. College Phone 14 72· W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across fro1n the Green Gate

of .. of its . • 1S TRADE MARK lil The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LATEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes ·· $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WALL STS. The Cain's Leadina! exponents .of Modern Dancina! in Schenectady and Vicin· ity. New PupiJs received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9p. m. Pri- vate Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phone 2710-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS r~9ia:~:;:~ Company EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men.

Babbitt Clothes Are far superior to the ordinary ready made clothes because they are the ,equal of the finest custom tailor',s output. We ,are sole agents in this tri·city ,f~rritory fo,r Rogers Peet Co. and ''The Frankel Fifteen'' (The greatest $15 clothing proposition in America) BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY (!)a..c.r. THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We .are _not living in the stage-coach decade, at wh1ch t1me the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as owe did in by-gone days. Neither would you ha v- irtg your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 438 State Street Opposit~ Jay Street Free Order Service Telephone 3456 Higgins' ( Drawin• Ink1 I Eternal Writin• Ink En~ro11in• Ink I Taurine Mucila!le \) Photo Mounter Paate I Drawin~ Board Paate Liquid Pa1te ll Office Pa1te Ve~etable Glue• etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet. clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 2 71 Ninth. St. Brooklyn, N. Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street,

• Why Should I Smoke TUXEDO? T UXEDO is the logical smoke for mill£onaz'res because it is impos- sible to buy a better tobacco. Tuxedo is the logical smoke for the economical man because there are 40 pipefuls in a ten-cent tin- making the average cost per pz'p.eful only one-fourth of a cent I To buy cheaper tobacco means to get less pleasure out of smoking, because it is impossible to make a tobacco as good as Tuxedo at less than the Tuxedo price/ ..._11111--~ The Perfect Tohacco /or Pipe anJ Cigarette GEO.CURRY ex-Governor, New Mexico ., Tuxedo appeals to me atrongly on account of its cool, mild, plea3ant flavor. Therein lies its superiotity to oil other tohaccos.\ ~~ Tuxedo is made of only the finest, choicest selected leave& of perfectly aged Burley tobacco. It is made by the original ''Tuxedo Process '' which takes all the unpleasantness out of tobacco and leaves all the pleasantness £n/ STANTON WARBURTON Congressman State of Washington Tuxedo has a deliciously mild, fragrant aroma that is pleasant to all. It is the only tobacco you can smok~ in a ·room full of lace curtains without leaving even a trace of odor. A trial will convince you that Tuxedo is superior to every other tobacco you have ever smoked. Buy a tin-today. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenient pouch. 5 inner-lined wit/a moisture•proof paper C Famous green tin, 0 with gold lettering, J ( curved to fit pocket In Glaaa Humidors, SOc and 90c FREE Send us 2 cents in stamps for post- . age and we will mail you a souvenir tin of TUXEDO tobacco to any point in the United States. Address ) THE AMERICA!~ TOBACCO COMPANY Room 1299 Ill Fifth Avenue New York \My own experience leads me to helieoe hat eoerg Je. &irahle qualilJ ·;s present in Tuxedo Tobacco. It is the hest amok.e I ever had. ' • ,r:~ -- IRVIN S. COBB humorist and novelist .,/can't think of any rea- aon why I shouldn't say I lik.e Tuxedo - hecau&e I Jo lik.e it, oerJ much. '' 9,.\*- J ~ II

Say Fellows: Bring in your laundry and .save money ' Note these P·rices: Shirts all Kinds ..................... olOc Collars ..................... 0 •• 0 ••••••• 0 2c Union Suits .. ~ . 0 • • •••••••••••••••• lOc Underwear, Night Shirts and Pajamas. . . . ..... 0 ••••• 6c each Hose ...................... 0 3c per pair · Handkerchiets ........................ 2c Barrow's Hand Laundry 738 State Street We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MVSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Makers of Caps, Gowns and Hoods To Cure Cold til BUY A GAS HEATER MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' Art ~tnre No. 7 New York Cen.tral Colonnade To the American Colleges and Universities from . New York Telephone Schenectady, N.Y. the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty UNION STUDENTS The Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. w • • Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street I t• 11 L {I~ • ~\<I rw~'\:R. r !JtiPAN'I' Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. I ~)

! ,.-. Clothing Furnishings Hats: KEELER'S --EUROPEAN---\-- HOTEL We're ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? The newest and best in each department. ~ Wells & Coverly TROY and Cabaret at 9 P. M. Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty.five Private Dining Rooms Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway \If It's Made of Rubber We Have It\· m Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Goods Auto Auto Tir-es m Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all tim.es to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. vV e invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. Fine Imported and Domestic Woolens Telephone 2323- J GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.\

Ready to Wear and Custom Made STYLISH CLOTHES Compa,rison is the Lever That Turns Trade Our Way FOR YOUNG MEN . This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, superiority of workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to all College Student is yours for the asking. 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases of $10 or over if this ad is presented at the time of purchase~ 503 • 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N. Y. Phone 1270- W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: Men's soles, sewed ________ 75c Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c I~adies' soles, sewed _______ 6Qc Men's Heels ________________ 25c Men's soles, nailed ____ so to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Full RUBBER SOLES ___ . _______ -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 \The College Photographer\ ~RN!! 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street !5 i3U CARL DANNER, Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S l908 1915 1914 Colle'• Repre1entative are in every style suitable for city or country; frolic or function. The colors are fast, the styles smart and right-the patterns correct-insist on the label. $1.50 and up Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. Makers Let's Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 298-W. 722 Eastern Ave. ,, ':• ( 1 ( t

;. ':• The Concordiensis s:.: \\' .. ··- n.... t - ~ · ' _,.. . T : . \ ', -, ' .'' _., :., . 'I ,; ' • ,, ' ,;, 1 r ~ •• , . ;:, ; .. , ... , ..... ·- ... · .• : -w:· ;:.g:e VOL. 38 JANUARY 28, 1915 N0.12 UNION DOWNS WlLLIAMS. Dave Beaver Stars and Good Teamwork is :E:verywhere Evident. In the prettiest game of basketball staged on the Union court this eason, the Garnet defeated Williams last Saturday night by a score o£ 41 to 17. From the first whistle the game was a whizz, and the score is no evidence ot the playing of the two teams. \Villiams put up the best game o£ any o£ tliis season's opponents playing here. 'rhe return of the Beavers to the game was a signal for confidence, and with the twins playing the game of their life, the passing and floor work and speed of the team increased fifty per cent. Dave Beaver especially did miraculous work, continually eluding his man, continually within shoot• ing distance o£ the basket (though with bave that may mean hal£ way down the floor), and runnihg up a total o£ nine :field goals for. himself. \Brother Jake,'' as well as Captain Houghton, Teedy Woods, Joe 1-Iaubner and Jimmy Mudge all added their quota, £eeding the ball prettily and playing for the team all the time. This was the first game o£ the North .. eastern League series and the victory puts Dnion on a par with Colgate whose team defeated Wesleyan recently. Colgate comes to Schenectady tomorrow night. \fhe first count went to Boughton last Saturday night, when he dropped the ball into the basket from the foul line as a re ... s ult ot a discontinuous dribble by a Wil~ liams player. Williams went ahead whem Gatfield got loose and scored a :field goal. Erny evened the score on another foul. Jake Beaver assisted the ball :first to Dave, then to l-Iaubner, for two successive baskets and Houghton scored another foul. Williams scored three points. Houghton caged a field goal and then the Gracchi ob- liged with two baskets in succession apiece -Dave shooting two and then Jake two more. After Haubner scored a field goal the whistle blew, and the period was over. Score : D nion 19, Williams 6. 'rhis period was tnarked by fast work on both sides. Neither teatn evolved a \hang ... ing guard/' and the mix-up was general. The greatest advantage Union had over the Berkshire quintet was the sure passing. Time a:fter tin1e the ball worked down the floor unerringly from Garnet player to Gar· net player.. Quite the reverse was true of \7Villiams. Often a swift pass was neatly in- tercepted by an opponent and the ball would flash down the floor before the Purple could reverse. This was the prin ... cipal difference in the playing o£ the two teatns. \Villiams guarded well. At the tap of the gong in the second period Dave Beaver hung up his fourth field goaL On two passes-a tip-off in to Jake B eaver)s hands, and an assist by him, Houghton scored again. After a moment

I ! I ! I I ! :l 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS of tight scrimmage, Teedy sailed in front of a pass intended for Mr. Garfield, thought it over a moment or two, shook the dust off the ball, and then parabolad the sphere into the cash register. This was a pretty shot, from far down the floor and on the side of the court. Here Mr. Patterson took the place of Mr. Garfield in the center position for Wil-- ·liams, and Mudge went in for Joe Haubner. Erny Houghton stood down by the basket soon afterwards in solitary n1editation, when a projectile hurtled through the air, caromed off his hands like a dum dum, and reposed serenely in the mite box. It was the ball, and the superintendent checked up another two-spot for the class. At this point in the gan1e Williams braced and in quick succession scored eleven points - four field goals and three fouls, while Union was passive. This was the time when \Villiams displayed its best bas- ketball. 'rhe five passed the ball surely and seemed for the time a little fresher than their opponents. But the spurt was short. Then Dave Beaver came through with a little sole act entitled \Four in Succession, or Adding Insult to Injury.\ Just before the whistle blew Captain Erny pulled one of those \Wunderschutz\ that remain in the mind bf the oldest grad for generations. Down by the Williatns basket, closely guarded, he caught the ball. He rotated quickly away frotn the basket and at the same time with his back to it, nonchalantly tossed the balloon over his head apd right into the hoop. It's too bad the whistle blew just UNION. F.B F.P. T.P. J. Beaver, r.f. ------ 2 0 4 Haubner, I. f. ______ , __ 2 0 4 Mudge, l.f. --------- 0 0 0 Woods, c. -----·---- 1 0 2 Houghton, I. g. ----- 4 5 13 D. Beaver, r.g. ----- 9 0 18 Totals ----·------ 18 5 41 WIL.LIAMS. F.B F.P. 'T.P. ~foltham, Lf. ------- 3 7 13 Langford, r.f. ------ 1 0 2 Brewer, l.f. -------- 0 0 0 Garfield, c. ---------- 1 0 2 Patterson, c. -------- 0 0 0 Hay, r.g. --·-------- 0 0 0 Totals ---.~-~·---- 5 \ 17' Summary-Score at half time-Union, 19; \iVilliams, 6. Fouls committed-Union, 10 ~ \Villiams, 10. Referee-0. W. Kuolt, Hamilton. Tim·ekeeper-Fairman. then, because Erny deserved a long yell for that. It's better to take in Junior Week than to wish you had. THE ICHABOD SPENCER LECTURES. Alexander Pope was the subject of Dr. Palmer's lecture on Wednesday, January 20. Dr. Palmer departed somewhat from his usual method of approach in dealing with P<_?pe. He started out to show why there was such an extreme dislike for the work of this poet. Pope was first of all nar- row in his aitns. He recognized but two classes of people, politicians and literary personages, and even of these classes he did not show what was of most interest to his readers, the human passions of the men he tried to portray. Dr. Palmer aptly express- ed Pope's aims when he said, \Pope's aim was to exhibit how people behave at an . evening party.\ Dr. Paln1er then went on to show more of the characteristics of Pope that are far from admirable. Pope, he stated, lacked ori- ginality. There is ever that dependence on the subject matter of son1.e other poet or writer, that continually points the finger of plagarism toward him. Another reason that prevents a greater interest in the poe- try of Pope is the great lack of ideas and ideals in his work. This together with the· ' .. • ''' .. ( (

. ' . ' ' 1 1 1 y ~ y e - C) y :i s e 1- n n e .r L- n ·- i. I i: \ • ·/ i '' !:· ., . '., . . •' .. \ •,' ':, ~ . :. THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 tnonotony and discontinuity of his train of thought repulse the reader from him. Pope's characte~ was one that would naturally draw men toward him. He was the vainest of poets. His one delight is to boast of his perfection, and to attack both the personality and the work of his con- temporaries. On the contrary, it was he who deserved the censure of critics. Dr. Palmer said that Pope even went so far as to falsify the records so as to gain a reputation for his precosity. This insincerity on Pope's part was all the more marked bee a use of all literary periods his was the most exact. This was the extremely dark picture that Dr. Palmer painted of Pope, but before his large audience left, he showed to them a far different figure than that which the above would seem to indicate. \Pope Dr. Palmer said, \was the victim of circum- stances. By birth, he was the son of a poor London merchant. His physical and men- tal conditions were of the poorest. Even with these li1nitations, he fixed for himself a goal that no man had ever attained. T·o such a weak youth there was but one career open to him. That was a career as an author. With his physical and mental weakness, Pope did not stop to sorrow and complain. l-Ie set out to reach a goal, and that goal ·was correctness. His purpose was to ex- press something better than it had ever been expressed before. Concentration was impossible for him. He wrote down his thoughts as they came to him on pieces o£ paper. He then collected these ideas and molded them into a poem. This could not produce continuity of thought, but it did show heroism on the part of the poet. Dr. Pahner went so far in his praise of the poet as to say that he was the first man of letters that our language has known. He was the first to decide on a literary career, and he held to it throughout his life. He compelled everyone both in politics and lit- erature to look up to hiln and give him the greatest of honor. Dr. Palmer read several selections from Pope's Essay to Man to shovv some of the excellencies of his style~ These demonstrated how Pope had allied hin1self to the French classical school, and had introduced its manners into English letters. The reason that Pope fails to pre- sent new ideals, the speaker pointed out, was because it was the purpose of the classical vvriters to present only those things that everyone understood. They could not raise thetnselves to the enthusiasm of the roman- ticists . Pope had no regular teaching. At the age .of twelve he undertook his own educa- tion in his own way. The first part of his life he spent in training, then there was years of groping in his intended fields and then there was his years of mastery. The early part of his life he spent in London. But here ?is mode of thought was disturb- ed and he bought a farm outside of the city where he spent hi.s days in writing his most noted works. Dr. Palmer closed this illum- inating and pleasing lecture with some read- ings from several of Pope's poems. Dr. Palmer's lecture of last Thursday evening brought us to worship at the shrine of Willian1 \rVordsworth, the great poet of the F~nglish lake country. In introducing hitn to his audience Dr. Palmer referred to him as the great prophet of the school of poets who preserve the youthful vision of the vvorld and find joy by looking deeply into the spirit of man. This the speaker found, was in marked contrast to the method of the classical writers. They had been averting their eyes fro1n half of human na- ture and it was this half that the romantic- ists, o£ which class Wordsworth 'vas a mem- ber, thought to be more important. Nature was to Wordsworth, as Dr. Palmer pointed out, the supretne God, and God he worshipped in the form of nature. In \V ordsworth·'s poetry and in that of all the romantic poets there is that subtle sense of mystery that causes us to think and to·

i i I . i l ' I I I . I I ! ' I l i . I • ! i 12 THE CONCORD.IENSIS: wonder and to grope for hidden .and un- known things. Wordsworth was by no means the founder of this school of poetry, but he so in1proved on the style of his pre- decessors that romantic literature was brought to a high degree of excellency. Dr. Palmer referred to Burns and Gray as early writers of this style of poetry. 1~he differences of the subject matter of the two schools of poetry were then discus- sed by Dr. Palmer. The classical school was concerned with the aristocracy of the intellect. The followers of classicism had no place for individual thought hut group- ed things as a whole. The romanticists on the other hand dealt with real men and women and insited upon the in1portance of the individual. To them all men are equal and they obtain their stimulus for poetic ideas from the social and political conditions of the times. To express these ideas the romanticists revived the sonnet form and invented many new forms. The poet Wordsworth had every influ- ence to develope his originality and individ- ualism. He dwelt in that wonderful lake country, the very environs of which were sufficient to arouse the poetic genius of the man. Wondering through the beautiful fields with his sister, Dorothy, he came into contact with nature in closest intimacy. This sister, Dr. Palmer said, was a genius herself, but she was content to aid her brother in developing the wonderful talent in him. On these wanderings Wordsworth found the material for many of his later poems. The French revolution had a great effect on Wordsworth, but he later suffered a great dillusion concerning it. Coleridge with his German idealistic philosophy brought to \TV ordsworth many new ideas. 'These two poets planned to work a revolu- tion in English poetry. But for the work of nutnber of young men in the universities the poetry of Words- worth would have gone unnoticed by the people of his tim·es. In fact Dr. Palmer told his audience, Wordsworth was the sub- ject for scorn and ridicule, and it was only the unselfish work of his young adtnirers that won for him a hearing. Later he was called to be poet laureate after Oxford had bestowed ·on him her highest honor. Wordsworth held the highest ideals about the duty of poetry. He held that it should bring to the world contentment and joy and this through the development of fundamen- tal instincts, not through the increase of material wealth. Dr. Palmer closed the lecture by some ex- ceedingly pleasing radings from the \Soli- tary Reape,r\ and \The Ode on Intimations of Immortality.\ THE ANTI-GRIND COMES BACK. The Innocent Bystander seems to be all right in spirit but just a little bit off in logic and the only place where he disagrees with my views to any considerable extent is upon the definition of a \Grind.\ He says that a Grind is one vv-ho puts study and class room work above everything else. Under this definition the term becomes a complimen- tary one and I can mention three of the best basketball players on our team who conform to it perfectly. These three men are also in- terested in baseball and football but always make sure that none of their studies are neglected. Shall we call them Grinds? I re- fuse to dub them such, but would rather re- fer to them as \good students.\ No, Inno- cent Bystander, I beg you to differentiate between the Grind and the student. You may be flattered to hear one refer to you as a Grind but I know of many men who make college activities entirely subordinate to studies and yet I'm sure they would be high- ly insulted if you should call then1 by this term. You did not define the word \Grind\ in your original chirp on the subject and, in responding, I took a definition of my own. I am willing to discuss the individual whon1 . ~ ·\( I ' 1 .f:

r s s a . lS ~ i1 ' : ~ ·~ l:. : THE CONCORDIENSJS 13 I defined and everything which I have said to his discredit still applies, but I refuse to argue further with the Innocent Bystander unless he will confine himself to the object of my attack and let him distinctly under- stand that I did not attack the individual whom we commonly call a ugood student.\ the Ally says that, ''A Grind is simply one who devotes all his time to study.\ Ac- cording to the Innocent Bystander a Grind may be actively engaged in athletics or liter- ary activities but the Grind of the Ally is one who confines himself entirely to study. Let's have a little team work on the other side men. I can't argue from two different standpoints at once. The Inr1ocent Bystander's Ally feels even more strongly on the subject than does his partner, but he too, refuses to confine him- self to the individual under discussion. The i\lly says that study is a college activity. \V ell, college activity is another coined term and the only criterion as to its correct mean- ing is the opinion of .union College students. In order to feel a little more sure of my ground, lVlr. Ally, I walked across the campus the other day and asked twenty-five 111en at random what they commonly meant by college activity. Not one of them includ- ed study in his definition. A prime neces- sity in any argument is for each n1an to take his opponent's statements as he knows they were meant to be taken and one who spends his energies in twisting his oppon- ent's premises out of shape and making them mean things which he knows they were never intended to mean, will never get any- where tovvard a fair basis of argument. THE ANTI-GRIND. JUNIOR PROM TO BE THE BEST EVER-THE DATE IS FEBRUARY 5. The Ally takes the other extreme of the subject and argues against the athlete who neglects his studies. He is quite right in this position. I am advancing the \happy medi urn\ idea, however, and am discussing the \Grind\ 'vith the Innocent Bystander, so again I must insist that Mr. Ally is off the subject, that he is roaming about in fields which neither the Innocent Bystand- er nor the Anti-Grind have touched upon and that he is defending a position which I have not attacked. If my two honorable opponents are joined by- an alliance, why, I ask, do they not agree upon a definition. The Innocent Bystand- er insits that \a Grind is one who puts class roon1 work above everything else,\ while Step up front boys because the Prom is with us. vVhen the next issue of the Con- cordy is published Junior Week will be on in fuH sway. There is still plenty of time to in- vite her, go South for four dollars, and come up smiling on February 5th at the new gym, as Mr. McKee conducts his philhar- monic orchestra as they syncopate through a milicent waltz. So far the support of the college for this affair has not been what it should be. We know that times are hard and money is tight, but why worry? The at- tendance at the Junior Prom only means the sacrifice of a few trips to Proctor's, etc., and who wouldn't hand it to the Prom under those conditions? But after you have spoken of the New York orchestra you haven't said it all. No, not by any means because the sustaining nourishment (pardon me) ''feed,\ is to be exceptionally good. It is a regular college custom to do away with flowers during Junior Week. This is a fine idea and the committee having Junior \~T eek in charge will follow the usual custom this year. So you see fellows, when you figure the party all out, the Prom isn't such an \expensible\ proposition after all. This is all the space we can have or we would tell you more about it. Thanks. Efficiency First: Anybody who spanks a child should put a carpet over the kid and thus beat two things at once.

, I l I l ! ! ... i 14 THE CONCORDIENSI'S THE CONCORDlENSlS A Literary and News W~ekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDI'TOR-IN-CHIEF H. J. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDIT·OR Walter C. Baker, '15 Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood Boulevard STAFF ARTIST Thomas P. Keating, 'r5, 322 Germania Avenue ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, '16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 REPORTERS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 H. R .. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz Karl E. Agan, '15, Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Howard A. Glenn, Assistant Business Manager, Kappa Alpha Lodge. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street Schenectady. N.Y. (Editorials in this issue written by R. E. Taylor, '16) THE JUNIOR PROM. Son1e five or six years ago, the faculty of Union College came to recognize the im- portance of reserving a sn1.all portion of our valuable tin1e for social activity. Realizing that it is best to. preserve at all times the proper balance and to go to excess in noth- ing however good it is (''grinding\ for ex- alnple) they accordingly decide·d to set aside several days in February for dancing and for entertainn1ent of guests. For some un- known raeson, the season was placed under the auspices of the junior class and called Junior Week although it is purely a college affair. This is the origin of that period of light-heartedness and merry -making which is now approaching. 1'o make an affair of this kind the success that we desire it to be, it must have support, and support and ever supoprt. \Nothing\ succeeds like success\ and it is the duty of every student who would have Union College succeed to make to their Alma Mater\s credit another success out of this even as they made a success out o£ last fall's football season~by support! No kind of investment pays so well as good advertising, because it makes a hit-it conveys the desired impression, a favorable one, while poor advertising not only fails to fulfill its intended purpose but accom- plishes the exact opposite by spreading about an unfavorable impression. At this juncture, there is only one thing to do and that is to get into it and tnake the Junior Prom a success. As Union students this is a duty that we owe to our college even though it involve some slight temporary in ... convenience to ourselves. The Junior Prom, like the Senior Ball, is an occasion when n1any people whose opinions we value have a chance to see a side of our college life which is strongly influential in shaping their attitude toward us as a college. Then there is the value of the event to the student himself. To put it in plain .i\nglo-Saxon, it is a function to which he may bring the object of his admiration and have a good time. If he is a social star, he can shine by his own light, while if he is a social planet he can shine by the reflected light of others. Anyway, he can shine. We shall not attempt to describe the enhancing

THE OONCORDIENSIS 15 music, the gay decorations, the balm of spring-time, the mazy waltz or '' the redowa' s dash ''And the cavalcade of flutes.'' Those who know (and we all do) know full wen the charm of the gay season, so let 11ot the jingle of the nickels drown the tnttsic of the orchestra. The faculty have given you the time, the chairman has gone to unprecedented expense to give you the entertainment, the college gives you a big chance to do son1ething for her and aU by doing something for yourself. Do it! THAT GARNET. Every year about this time the good ship, Garnet, puts to sea with a crew o£ juniors on board and a crowd of seniors, sopho- mores and freshmen on the dock wishing and waving· a \bon voyage,\ and every year as the February winds begin to buffet her binnacles and hammer her halyards with the stern waves o£ reality, she sends back to her friends her S. 0. S. for help. Now for those who do not understand the science of signals, S. 0. S. stands for \songs or stories,'' \squibs or satires,\ \sketches or scenes,\ \skillfully or strikingly,\ \signifi- cant of student-life.\ The call is now out and every student who desires to have his name shouted down the corridors of fame has the opportunity of- fered him by Union's great year book to dis- tinguish himself with story, poem or sketch. The editorial staff o£ the Garnet reports a prosperous beginning for this year's publica- tion. Let it be understood that though the junior class publishes it, the Garnet is ,u n .. year book and is representative of the col- lege as a vvhole. 'The best production wins a place in it, so let all cornpeti tors do their best and back up this year's Garnet. Take in Junior Week; it's great! INDOOR INTERCLASS TRACK MEET& On Tuesday, February 2, at 4 :30 P. M. in the gymnasium, a precedent will be estab- lished. For the first time an indoor track meet will be held at Union. On the track the entries from each class will be limited to two n1en. Points given for first, second, third and fourth places will be 5, 3, 2, 1 re- spectively. The events at this meet will be: 1. 40 yard dash. 2. Running high jump. 3. 40 yard low hurdles. 4. one-half mile run. 5. Two mile run. Then on Thursday, February 11, at 4 :30 P. M., the following events will be held under the same conditions as govern those of February 2: 1. 40 yard dash. 2. 12-pound shot put. 3. One mile run. 4. Forty yard high hurdles. 5. Two mile relay race (teams of four.) THE BAND. A Real Live Organization. The work of the band in the Williams game showed lots of \pep\. The whole at- mosphere at the game seemed different from the St. Lawrence game when the band didn't play. The band has done good work so far this year whenever it has played. l\1usic at the games helps to keep the crowd good hu1nored and lively. The new pieces like \Tipperary\ are songs everybody can . JOln 1n on. In spite of usefulness of the band few people realize the wdrk done at its rehear- sals. The band practices twice a week in Silliman Hall under Leader Gunning and at present the band consists of twenty-one

I I I ' I l I I I I ' . I . ' I ' I 16 THE CON·CORDIEN:SIS n1en,. so it ranks as one of the largest college activities. INTERCLASS BASKETBALL. Second Round. 'rhe first round of interclass basketball re- sulted in a series of the best and hardest fought games ever seen here in class basket- ball. On January 28 the second round starts and continues in accordance with the folllowing schedule: Thursday, January 28-4:30 P. M., 1915- 1918; 5:00 P. M., 1916-1917. Saturday, February 13-2:00 P. M., 1916- 1918; 3:00 P. M., 1915-1.917. Thursday, February 18-4:30 P.M., 1915- 1916; 5 :00 p. JVI., 1917-1918. The following 'varsity squad men, and also any basketball U. or A. U. A. men are ineligible for these class games: 1915-Beaver, D., Beaver, J.. Byron, Houghton, Woods. 1916--H ummer, Ketchutn, Reed, Zimmer. 1917 - Galbraith, Girling, Goodman, Haubner, Scoby. 1918-Akins, Mudge, Roof, Moynehan. COLGATE WILL LINE UP AGAINST GARNET FRIDAY. Dancing After the Game. Colgate has beaten Niagara, Wesleyan, Dartmouth and Rochester ; can she beat Union? 'rhat's what we're going to find out tomorrow night when the two teams oppose each other in the Union College gym. Ken- nedy and Stewart seem to he Colgate's stars and it is expected that they will line up against Haubner .and Houghton respective- ly. \l an ~Alstyne, who has also been doing good work for Colgate, will probably face Jake Beaver in the contest. From all re ... ports, the Colgate five looks like a crack bunch and a fast article of basketball is to be expected tomorrow night. .l\.fter the game dancing will be enjoyed by all V\rho wish to prolong the evening's amusement. The price of the dance is fifty cents per man. Ladies are admitted free of ,charge. SOPHOMORE SOIREE WILL BE REAL LIVE AFFAIR. The gymnasium wiU be the scene of a most enjoyable event on the fourth of Feb- ruary, the first evening of Junior Week. Doug Wilson is going to stage a soiree which will be a credit to the class of 1917 and an enjoyable occasion for all Union College men. Gioscia's orchestra will fur- nish music for the dance which will make dancing more than enjoyable. The girls wiU be pretty and witty and gay and the gen- tlemen will redeem their faults, it is hoped, by being too numerous to mention. ENGLISH CLUB. At the meeting of the English Club held January 22, Delcha1nps read a paper on the poetry of Father Ryan, the southern poet. trhe life of the priest was reviewed at con- siderable length and much of his work read, especially his war poems, written at the time of the Civil War. At the business session before the read- ing of the paper, Charles N. Waldron and Walter C. Baker wet:e chosen to superin- tend the canvass of the college for the sale of tickets for the lectures by Alfred Noyes, the English poet. The tickets for members of the faculty and students will be fifty cents, for all others one dollar. Mr. Edmund Tilly, the new member of the faculty in the modern language depart- ment, was elected to the club by a unanim- ous vote. The next meeting will be held on Saturday instead of Friday, the regular 1neeting night. At. this time Mr. Warren of the English department of the High School will read a paper. Club Steward Culver, with his usual bountifulness, presided at the board. ·,

a e 7 n e s L- l, d e t. L- 1, e l- d l- .e s, ·s y >f t- L- n Lr n h tl I THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 !GUS HAS THE F·LOOR. A great deal of interest has been created by the articles of the Innocent Bystander and his opponent, the Anti-Grind. It seems that the discussion of the merits and de- merits of the Grihd has been started on a rather unstable foundation. The little bird the Chirpist feebly chirps his ·defense of the Grind, defining the species, after he has been called upon to do so by the Anti-Grind, as an individual who puts \study and class- room work above ~everything else;\ Is it not true that a man may put study and classroom work above everything else and still not be a \Grind\·? We have illustra- tions of this fact in some of the biggest men in college. The Innocent Bystander states that the A.nti-Grind has \taken the stand that study is only one of many college activities.\ I do not think that the Anti-Grind maintains that study is a college activity. Otherwise he would not write \a man may * * * lie wholly outside the realm of the Grind pro- vided he devotes some of his time * * to: the upbuilding of something in college activity which will * * * be of real benefit to the college.'' Both of them agree on one part of the d.efini tion of the Grind, namely, that a Grind devotes none of his time to college activi- ties or \outside activity\ as the Chirpist calls it. It does not, of course, follow that a 1nan who does not participate in any college activity is a Grind. Some men are neither classified under the head of Grind nor as men active in some college activity. To n1y mind this sort of student (if he may be called that)--the man who neither does well scholastically nor is a worker for the college-is a very small hun1an fraction and is a much better mark for the shots of critic- isn1 than the Grind. This much I will praise the Grind, he is several steps above his brother who, whatever his motive for com- ing to college may be, is neither a student nor an \activity man.\ The Innocent Bystander states that there never was a person who devoted absolute- ly all of his time to study. Practically there never was; naturally a man must eat, sleep and have a small amount of time for recrea- tion. Furthermore,. if the Innocent By- stander will note carefully the statement of Anti-Grind concerning the above he will see that Anti-Grind wrote, ''A Grind * * * devotes all of his time to the pursuit of book learning and in the enjoying of the privileges and pleasures which the labors of less selfish persons have produced. This is perfectly true. J\fy definition of the Grind is: A selfish student whose idea in coming to college is to obtain the utmost from his courses for his own advancement in the world to the exclusion of anything he may do to help his Alma Mater athletically, in a literary way, musically or in any other college activity. Of course a man does not get the most out of his four years in college by being a Grind. He is not taking advant- age of all the opportunities the college of- fers to prepare him to make a success of him- self. It is the Alpha and Omega of most Grind's to succeed for their personal satis- faction. When he confines himself to being a Grind a man loses the advantages of the experiences, friendships, the whole atmos- phere of college life-that indescribable vir- ile living among excitement, loyalty, activ- ity; and self-sacrifice for the one end, Alma l\1:ater. William DeWitt Hyde has brought forth strongly the offer of the college, of which I n1aintain the Grind gets only about twenty per cent., as follows: To be at home in all lands and ages; to count nature a familiar acquaintance, and art an intimate friend; to gain a standard for the appreciation of other men's work and the criticism of your own; to carry the keys of the world's library in your pocket, and feel its resources behind you in whatever task you undertake ; to n1ake hosts of friends among the men of

18 THE CON·CORDlENSIS your own age who are to be leaders in all walks of life; to lose yourself in generous enthusiasm and co-operate with others for common ends; to learn manners from stud- ents who are gentlemen and form character under professors who are Christians: this is the offer of the college for the best four years of your life. The Grind is an extremist and lacks bal- ance. I do not agree with the Anti-Grind that the Grind is an unnecessary evil; he is a necessary evil in our college life just as extren1ists are in our public life. He is here to stay and the best we can do is to break his shell and drag him out of it if that be possible. And, Innocent Bystander, pray tell why, as you state it, a student who stays away from. a game to study is doing as much for his college as he could in the cheering section·. I can easily see that if he 'vere the Grind kind he might as well not be there for all the spirit he helps to put into the team or the cheering he does, but wherein does he help the college by study- ing instead of increasing our numbers in the cheering section? The Innocent Bystander alleges that the article by the Anti-Grind was a \venomous attack.\ 'I'here appeared nothing that could be taken as venom except perhaps the term Ignorant Bystander and Anti- Grind, I doubt not, but using the meaning o£ innocent implied in Webster's dictionary namely: Innocent-weak in intellect. GUS. ELECTRCALS TO HAVE SHOW. The electrical engineering students have plans under way to give an electrical show to be held in the electric laboratory April 6th and 7th. This affair promises to be of '\i\ride interest and an overwhelming coln- bination of startling surprises in the way of exhibits is expected. 1\'here will be a 1neeting of the senior and junior electricals in the electric labora ... tory Friday, January 2·9th, at 4:30 o'clock. All sophomore or freshtnart engineers who are interested in electricity are also urged to be present at this meeting. Junior Week is a Union College affair- support it'! THE INNOC'ENT BYSTANDER. Chirp the Seventh. The Innocent Bystander was talking to a junior about the \Garnet'.' which his class is shortly to publish. 'rhe junior was de- spondent and cast dovvn. The cause of his dejection was that he would have but one accon1plishment after his name while a cer ... tain friend of his would have ten or a dozen. fie figured n1erit entirely by number o£ achievements and vvould have been greatly surprised had anyone told him that his one achievement had been of greater service to hin1self and to his college than the long line of offices and titles which adorned that par- ticular place assigned to the other man. How often have we been told that most college men go in for too many activities? It is part of human nature to aspire for honor and distinction, but the great trouble with the college n1.an's human nature is that it aspires for every honor and distinction under the sun. A man may have been chair .. n1an of this committee, captain of this tean'l 1 and editor of this thing or that. No sooner does another office con1e up to which he is eligible than he is after it with all energy- and the strange part of it is that he is not alone in his pursuit. The rush for positions seems like the rush of a pack of mad ·dogs after a rabbit. The poor rabbit hasn't a chance in the world. Just as we can't guap .. antee that the most deserving or hungriest dog will get the rabbit, so we can't be as~ sured that the most efficient man will get the office. One office leads to another, and as a result we have the abnormal situation of having one man with so many offices that he can't fill then1 all, while the others n1ust gaze at his struggles from afar.

THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 The moral of my tale is plain. , Why not do one thing only, and do it well? Of course, it is to be expected that an athlete will be good in more than one branch of athletics. But why a good athlete should try to be the president of this thing or that, when there are others that would make better of- fic.ers than he, and when his athletic ability would suffer as a result, is mighty selfish. The '' Jack-of-all-trades-tnaster-of-none\ man has the wrong idea. Most of us will agree with this, and try to be chairn1an of his next class committee anyway. THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. ALUMNI NOTES. · In the past week several of the Alumni were back on the \hill.\ Among these are: \Buster\ Brown, '09 ; Arnold Chapman, '06; I-Iarry Schaupp, '09; Orson Richards, '95; I-Iarold Baker, '11; Raymond Van Sant- voord, '14; Lewis Care, '14; Albion Ken- \\rorthy, '14; A. C. Meneely, '14; \Chic\ Hequembourg, '12; Clinton Jones; \Cy:' Elmore, '14; and Clarence Fischle, '12. CHEMICAL SOCIETY. The next meeting of the Chemical So- ciety will be held Monday night, February 1. At this meeting Mr. Hughes will read a paper to the society on \Storage Batteries.\ SONG FOR R. P. I. UNION BASKET- BALL GAME. Tune: vVhen you wore a tulip and I wore a big, red rose. Start in a shouting, for guess who we're routing, it is poor old R. P. I. \V e trimmed thetn in football, we'll tri1n them in track, and now they're taking one m.ore try. \\ 1 e'll make you weary, you won't call us dearie, not after you count the score, This game will be ours today boys, Oh, just watch us play, boys, for Union will beat you once more. Getting up for an eight o',clock class may be injurious to one's religion, but it's tnigh ty good exercise for the will. SOME COLOR SCHEME. A despettic is one who looks yellow, feels blue, has a black disposition and lives with a brown taste in his moa th. Go to the Sophomore Soiree, February 4, Gymnasium Alumnorium. \Valter Trunbull, Harvard '15, of football fatne, is to be married soon to Miss Sears, who is the richest girl in Boston. SWEET MEATS. '\Tis my personal view,\ said Bob Scully \That mutton and lamb are too wooly, \Pork is too fatty \And beef is too ratty \But chicken I think is just bully.\ ATTACK ON THE REAR. History Stude : Smart trick Napoleon 'vorked on the allies at Austerlitz. :Dean: Yep, smashed 'en1 in de taiL The Junior Prom is the biggest Union Col- lege event of the year. i\.thletic directors fro1n 180 different uni- versities and colleges in the United States met in Chicago on Decen1ber 29, to discuss rules for governing foot ball, baseba.ll, bas- ketball and swimming. Union was repre- sented by Dr. MacComber.

I . ~ 20 THE· CONCORDIENSIS LIBRARY NOTES. Acting upon a sugestion of ·Dr. Berg, the college has fitted up an alcove on the sec- ond floor of the library for the special bene- fit of the electrical engineers. Books for ref- erence together with texts, pamphlets,. etc .. , have been collected and arranged on con- venient shelves. A table with electric lights, chairs and all things for the convenience o£ the electricals have been installed and are ready for use. THE COSMOPOLITAN CLUB. The last meeting of the club was for busi· ness only. After this had been transacted the members went over to Silliman Hall where they heard Mr. Rindge teach English to foreigners. At the next meeting on Monday night, there will be an interesting discussion of Brazil, illustrated by lantern slides. BASKETBALL DANCE. R.enewed interest is being taken in the dances after the basketball games. There was a much larger crowd at the dance after the Willian1s game last Saturday evening than participated in the festivities after the St. Lawrence game. The music, which was rendered by a student orchestra, was ex- cellent. The students are giving more sup- port to these affairs, and the Inter-Fratern- ity Council is making every effort to assure everyone a delightful time. Don't forget tomorrow night's dance l MOTHER OF UNION PROFESSOR PROMINENT IN RELIEF WORK. Mrs. Samantha Huntley, mother of Pro- fessor Grant Huntley, has, according to recent despatches from Italy, taken a prom- inent part in the relief work of the earth- quake sufferers at Avezzone. Mrs. Hunt ... ley is a celebrated portrait painter and is now living in Italy. RUTGERS .MAY HAVE HONOR SYSTEM. Rutgers is ~considering the introduction of the Honor System. A proposed con- stitution has been drafted and will be con ... sidered at a meeting of the Senior Council on February 4th. This tentative draft pro- vides for a pledge to consist ot the follow ... ing words: \1 have neither given nor re- ceived aid in this examination.'~' No pro- vision is made for the preservation of order in examination rooms. The following sec- tions shovvs features differing from those in . force here : Sectiort1. There shall be an Honor Court, consisting of the twelve undergraduate members o£ the Student Self-Government Board, whose duty it shall he to deal with all cases involving violation of the honor system. Section 2. The president of this court shall be chosen by the Student Self-Govern .. 1nent Board from its Senior representatives, and its secretary shall be the secretary ot the Student Self-Government Board. Section 2. A unanimous vote ot the court is necessary in all cases for conviction. The constitution is silent on the method of choosing the members of the Honor Court. At \tVilliams an amendment to the Honor System has been proposed, placing the re- porting o£ violations on a compulsory rather than a voluntary basis. An inter-fraternity pool tournament has been scheduled at Brown. Toques to replace the :freshmen caps have just rece11tly been adopted at Brown. Every letter man of the \i\1 ashington State College has been granted a life pass to all the athletic contests on the hon1e grounds by the Athletic Association of the • • • InStJ.tutJ.on.

... ... ... e r t t If 'JOU want anything from QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Bros. ALBANY, N. Y. -IF- you feel that a custom tailor is the only man that can put true distinction into your garments-you are laboring under the wrong impression. If you think that a custom tailor is the only man that can give you an exclus1ve pattern and weave---once again you're wrong. And if you think that a custom tailor can give you nearly as much value as \Steefel's\ can-we're afraid you\re wrong again. If your thoughts run in the above channel, drop in and see us-and we'll put you right. Suits and Overcoats $10 to $60. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. All the Latest Novelties in WALL PAPER AND DECORATIONS Sun 5 & 10c Wall-Paper Store 411 STATE STREET. Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454-J. NOTHING OV.ER 10 CENTS. WATERS, Custom Tailor 156 BARRETT STREET ---- lmporte.d and Domestic Woolens 15% Reduction to Students For samples and prices, see ROBERT N. LANDRET'H College Hill, Phone 1915-J YOUNG MEN!, Step Into a Pair of Our SURE-FIT Shoes· Here we picture two of the newest lasts for young men who keep apace with the shoe fashions. Correct tor college, school or business. Natty enough tor dress wear. Values like these are only possible in a metropolitan s to r e like Patton & Hall's. PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST. Below the Brlqe.

~----------------------------------------------------------------~~ More College News IN T'HE Read It Every Day GAZETTE 5 FOR YOUR DEN 5 Beautiful College Pennants · Yale and Hardvard, .Each 9 in. x 24 in Princeton, Cornell, Michigan, Each 7 in. x 21 in. 4-PENNANTS. SIZE 12x30-4 Any Leading Colleges of Your Selection All of our bes.t quality, in their proper colors, with ;colored emblems. Either assortment, for limited time sent postpaid for 50 cents and five stamps to cover shipping costs. Write us for prices before placing orders for felt novelties of all kinds. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittn.er St., Dayton, Ohio. Nott Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, :Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258-J. L. ·SCHWARTZ Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N. Y. There is no Music Like Giocia's Orchestra 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. A Gift that seals friendship- Your Portrait The Studio of MABELLE PRIMMER 241 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall Schenectady's Leading Flower Shop 3Julius iEgtr ORCHIDS, ROSES AND VIOLETS 735 State Street E ' ·D THE ' BARBER THE BARBER SHOP FOR UNION MEN Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. The New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Schenectady Specialty-Reasonable Prices, Comfortable

Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS. OfLS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishea 212 So. Centre St. ~~~ ~ ·ts Walk-Over shoes will t a lc:e ~- f:'1J you anywhere :and back. LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Walk-Overs. 407 State Street, Schenectady A. R .. ZI.ta's ·Orch:est·ra furnished music at Union College 1905 . 'o6, 'o7, 'o8, '09, 'Io, 'II, '12 '13 & '14 Best Dance Music in the World g~~· tt!'~~Es~r::~e~ 48 ~~e Betterfor Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., Albany TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students W. A. BULLIS Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620-W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. · 126 State Street 135 NOTT TERRACE Eyes Te1ted and GJ,uses Fitted Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $18 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & 1\.forris Aves. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography ''Watch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street.

I l I l • i A National Custom \Bull\ Durham is more than a national form ofen- joyment-it is an expression of American character. The millions of \Bull\ Durham smokers are the self-reliant, energetic Americans who make the United States the most progressive nation in the world, These men make their own opportunities, make their own success-and they like to make their own cigarettes, to their own liking, from ripe, mellow .. GE:NUIN£ \BuLl DuRHAM SMOKING TOBACCO North, East, South, and West they \roll their own\ -from cow-puncher to congressman, from soldier and sailor to general and admiral, from mill worker to corporation president. The smooth, mellow flavor and rich fragrance of fresh- rolled \Bull\ Durham cigarettes afford A •k lor FREE h I hf 1 • d 1 t• t• book ol u paper•., ea t U enjoyment an aS ·Ing Sa \:lS• witla each Sc: •ac:k. faction to more millions of men than ~- all other high-grade smoking tobaccos ·combined. FREE An Illustrated Booklet, showing correct way to · .,Roll Your Own•' cigar- ettes, and a Book of cigarette papers, will both be mailed, free, to any address in United States on postal request. Ad- dresa \'Bull\ Durham, Durham, N. C. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY

I . ! '· T~HE UNJO.N of a Sophomore or Freshman with a few dolors which wiU stay by him until he is a Senior ca.n be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenec·tad:y Savings Bank COR. STATE AN;D CLINTON The Edison The Gleason Book Co. 104 Jay Street Gleason Building \On your way to the post office\ American Pla.n All Outside Rooms :Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 Dealers in College Goods too numerous to include in the Edwin Clute, 'Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. ''Concordy\ The PURE FOOD Store !J THE MOHICAN MARKEl. l! ,.... ... lil ... The Big Store Around the Corner .. 161 JAY ST~EBT, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. THE OUTLET The PURE FOOD Store 140 JAY STREET, Opposite Van Curler Brokers and Jobbers of fine Custom Made Garments $10.95 for any Overcoat or Balmacaan in the store Full Dress Suits For Rent Wally Girling Johnson and Murphy Shoes Kirkpatrick Shoes Room I & II, Middle · Sweaters and Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union Section South Colle~e Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N. Y.

l I ' I : , ' ' .. I : ; i ' ' ' . \ : f ' l. ' i : I i i . ' l i J ' I ! l ! 1 I t i ~ ! I ' I ; l J l·J l I I I i II II I i I ' I The Schenectady Clothing Co. Clothin~g for Colilege Men Stein-Bloch and .. H·ickey-Freeman Suits and Overcoats cut to your measure $2e upward Full · Dress· Acceessories Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at aU times The Schenectady Clothing Co. 313·315 S-tate Street Telephone 91-W The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354- W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. JUST WRIGHT THE SHOE OF A GENTLEMAN Metropolitan Styles Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL Shoes THE LEWIS DINNING ROOM Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. . What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State 154 BARRETT ST., near State Meals, Table de Hote Breakfast 6:00 A. M. Luncheon 11:30 A. M. Dinner 5:00 P. M. Sunday Breakfast 8:00 A. M. Dinner 12:00 M. Single Meals 30c Sunday Dinner SOc 20 MEAL CARD $5.00 Home cooked meals prepared of the bes t things to eat, cooked and served in a clean and sanitary manner. Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street

Stoll's Ho/hrauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N~ Y. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938. MAX NOW A, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house~ Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. H. J. Sch artz Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at less than 14 Ready-Made\ Priceso Dress Suits from $25 up .. 9 Proctor's Arcade, Wedgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker Schenectady l'axicab Service Co. Phone 4489. H . E IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS High Grade Laundry get the KILLIP LAUNDRY QUALITY 719 STATE STREET, 'Phone 759 Schenectady, N. Y. SPALDING'S for nearly forty years-have been the Ol}es to think out, and put on the market, things really new in sport. Are you posted on just what's new this year? A G S Idl • & B 126-128 Nassau Street • .. pa ng ros. 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalogue S. A. Hamilton GROCER 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. 841 Union St. Phone 2540 ----------------------------- C. A. Whelan & Co. MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch CHOCOLA~fE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Street, \On your way to the Post Office\

SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN & .,,,_ M II 1 SWIM¥ Mifidi4· 141 • Bi i* &A¥ imzw\\\¥'£'9 Made by Hart,. Schaffner & Marx + MfWW \ \\MMI'MH bi¥ f' •+we '' R4M#§$i§tWWi4lliA\W#·iM!·*AA#M#®·iiitit£MWA r *iiMi@#~ililM£'idP Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Styles, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailors. College men like these clothes better than any other clothes made and the men of Union are showing us that they do. We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us time. 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Schenectady ~ Art Press

